On The Inside 
Ford is neew Vp ... page 7 
Parking ban ... page 3 


Vol. VII I, No. 57 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, December 6, 1973 
Bouffard defends ticket distribution 
by Fred Graver Staff Reporter 

Donald Bouffard, ND ticket manager, yesterday defended the procedure used to distribute tickets. Bouffard explained that this year it would have been impossible to meet student demand for tickets. 
"This is the first year we have been selling tickets for bowl games when demand was over supply," he said. Last year the demand was met by a special arrangement for 700 extra seats with the Orange Bowl. No extra seats are available this year. 
"What I can't understand," Bouffard said," is the conduct of the students. It was an animal show down there on Monday," He attributed the problem to seniors who had given or sold their ID's to un­derclassmen, and underclassmen who had falsified their ID's. 
"I went here seven years ago when enthusiasm was just as high, if not higher, and there were always two orderly lines at gate 14 in the stadium. I can't see what the difference has been over the last two years or so." Bouffard commented. 
"We can't be expected to be policemen for those lines," he said. 
Explaining the distribution of tickets among students, faculty and alumni, Bouffard said "The best way that the University can ~eciprocate the co!l­tributions of alumni, with the thmgs that are most m demand, is through football tickets." 
"The University of Alabama differs fron1 us for two primary reasons," Bouffard continued, "the first being that the University is a state institution and is run on state funds. Notre Dame depends a great deal on alumni contributions because it is a private in­stitution." 
"The second reason," he noted," is that they have 
more of a geographical proximity to the bowl. Most of 
their students live in Alabama and therefore will have 
more of an opportunity to travel to New Orleans." 
Bouffard commented on Tuesday's Observer 
Editorial, which offered an alternative to the present 
system of ticket distribution. . 
"We are constantly reviewing the procedure to see If 
there is a better way to do this. The suggestion that 
was offered would not solve the problem, as it just 
moves the big lines from the ticket window to te 
doors," said Bouffard. 
"The more I review the situation," he said, "the 
more I keep coming back to the idea of a computer 
lottery for this sort of thing." He explained that the 
lottery would choose from student ID numbers, and 
still give priority to seniors. 
Director of Athletics, Edward Krause, was asked 
about the ticket situation. He expressed sympathy for 
the students, but withheld comment as he had just 
returned from New York and had not spoken with 
Bouffard. 
Fr. Edmund Joyce, executive vice-president, was 
unavailable for comment. 



Bouffard: "This is the first year •• when demand was over supply." 
, (Photo by Chris Smith). 


HPC discusses new calendar alternatives 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Objections and alternative to the proposed calendar for the 1974-75 academic year were aired and discussed at the Hall Presidents Council (HPC) meeting last night in Dillon Hall. 
The members of the Academic Council was invited to attend and about fifteen of the sixty-seven were present. 
Responding to an earlier statement that it was too late to stop the proposed schedule from taking effect next year, Dr. Emil 
T. Hofman, dean of the freshman year, stated, "Since the Ad­ministration proposed the calendar on its own, then it should be able to change the calendar without all the formalities." 
"There might well be a com­promise calendar between the one that has been adopted and one considering the objections of the students," Dr. Hofman suggested. 
Dr. Robert Williamson, associate professor of accounting, stated that the Academic Council cannot look at specific calendars but may consider the question of whether to start before Labor Day or not. 
HPC Chairman Pat McLaughlin said the proposed calendar "would cause students to make less money and give them more breaks to spend it on." 
"Sixty-three per cent of the students said they would lose money if the semester starts before Labor Day," McLaughlin explained. 
Alumni Hall President Phil Byrne complained that the 
Dr. Hofman suggests a com­promise calendar. 

proposed nine-day midsemester 
break would be wasted in October. 
"Friends from other schools 

won't be home when you are," 
Byrne noted. 
"Also, there's really nothing you ~an do in October. You can't ski, It's too late for the beach, and it's hard to find nine day em­ployment," he observed. 
Several faculty representative of the Academic Council presented their views on the proposed calendar adjustment. 
Professor James Massey outlined the history of the new calendar. In a November 25, 1969 meeting, the Academic Council passed a resolution to allow the Administration to construct a calendar in which the fall semester woul.d end before Christmas, ac­cordmg to Dr. Massey. 
At a December meeting in 1972, the Academic Counci gave the Administration the power to begin 
(continued on Page 5) 

LaFortune renovation decision awaited 
by Tony Proscio Staff Reporter 
University administrators may issue a final decision on the future of LaFortune Renovation as early as next week, Vice-President for Student Affairs Philip Faccenda said yesterday. 
As a result of consultation with Provost Fr. James Burtchaell and Vice-President for Business Af­fairs Fr. Jerome Wilson, Faccenda said the issue has been "brought to a head" and is ready for con­sideration by University Officers at their monthly meeting in December. 
"My meeting with Fr. Burt­chaell and Fr. Wilson," Faccenda said, "was to talk about the parameters of the job: What departments will go into this facility? Can we talk about remodeling the buildings, or must we talk about only redecorating? Can we talk about putting up a third building in that area? Once those parameters can be settled­and I hope that will be shortly-

then we can get back to the (student) committee." 
'too expensive' 

The Lafortune Renovation Committee, whose original proposal was rejected by the Board of Trustees, cooperated with Ellerbe Architects, Inc. in sub­mitting a plan to the Board of Trustees this fall. The plan was vetoes, Faccenda said, because it was "too expensive." 
Contrary to some reports, he noted, finances were always a primary consideration. 
"If, as The Observer reported, there was never any mention about money," he continued, "I imagine it is because everybody assumes that there's nothing done at the University where money isn't a very important factor. You never do anything where money isn't a consideration." 
The final cost of the Committee's plan, Faccenda explained, was $250,000 over the Trustee's ex­pectations. The total projected 
(continued on page 31 

Thursday, December 6, 1973
1. the observer 
warld 

briefs 
Washington--The Arab nations are prepared to start relaxing their oil embargo as soon as Israeli forces start withdrawing from occupied Arab territory, Saudi Arabian oil minister Ahmad Zakigai-Yamini said Wednesday. 
Washington--The Cost of Living Council . ruled Wednesday that refiners can increase the pnce of heating oil by two cents a gallon in January, but must cut gasoline prices by a penny a gallon. The two-part price change was designed to provide petroleum companies with a financial incentive to produce more home heating oil, diesel fuelf ro trucks and boats, kerosene and aviation fuel and lessen gasoline. 
President Nixon met with his cabinet to discuss the energy crisis and possible rationing of gasoline and home heating oil. No decision was taken at the hour­long meeting. 
Pittsburgh--Defying possible army intervention, the president of the United Mine Workers of America said Wednesday his union might strike for as long as six months when its coal industry contract expires next November. 
Belfast--A first-swinging brawl broke out in the Northern Ireland Assembly Wednesday between rival Protestant factions divided over the issue of sharing governmental power with Roman Catholics. 
Phnon Penh--Communist commando attacked a bridge linking Phnon Penh with its suburbs early Wednesday in the first rebel ground assault inside the capitol in 14 months. 

ara campus today 
1-4 pm -exhibit, works from intro. to art, basic sculpture, welding and wood carving, isis gallery 
4 pm -radiation-chemistry seminar, "how to build a proton", conference room, radiation research building 
7:30 pm -charismatic renewal, intro to movement, butler bldg., behind holy cross hall 
8 pm -panel discussion, "strategies in civil rights", room 101, law school 
8 and 10 pm -film, "lady sings the blues", engineering aud., $1.00 





Hit and run victim improves 
Pamela Anne Waldeck, SMC student who was seriously injured when struck by a car on Friday night, Nov. 2, was recently removed from the intensive care unit at St. Joseph's Hospital and is now listed in afir to good condition, 
"Night of Infamy'' at 
Bulla Shed 
At 6:00 p.m. this Friday,. December 7 (Pearl Harbor Day) the "night of Infamy" will begin at Bulla Shed (corner of Bulla and Juniper Rds). This evening of fun and games will continue until 6:00 
a.m. Saturday morning. · 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry, "Night of Infamy" will be loosely structured night of activities. A tentative schedule of events is listed below: 
6:00 p.m.--Dinner 6:30--Beginning of marathon monopoly and risk games (The winner takes home a prize). 
7:30 --Ice skating at the ACC (50 cent admission charge). 9:00--Musicians Jam. Bring your own instrument-electric equip­ment will be available. 9: 30--Guerilla theatre 11 :00--Football and-or volleyball (in the dark?) 12, 2, 4--Movies (Marx Brothers, 
W.C. Fields, Laura! and Hardy) 
3:30 a.m.--Scavenger Hunt 6:00--End of marathon games, breakfast. 
Food and other refreshments will be available all evening. All students are invited. 

according to SMC Dean of Student Kathleen E. Mulaney. 
Waldeck had been in intensive care for 18 days following the emergency surgery she received that Friday night. Among the multiple injuries she had sustained were a badly fractured pelvis, two fractured hands, serious damage to nerves in her left leg, and numerous lacerations. 
On Nov. 2, a westbound car on 
the main road leading to St. Mary's 
stuck Waldeck as she was retur­
ning from a pep rally. Witnesses 
identified the hit-and-run vehicle 
as belonging to 21-year old SMC 
student Peggy McDonough. 
McDonough is pleading innocent 
to a charge of hit-and-run, 
claiming she didn't realize she had 
hit anyone. 

Waldeck is in good spirits, 33 days in the hospital. She said that she spent Thanksgiving with both of her parents and that she has daily visitors. She added that ~er mother has conil'lllously been wtth her since the night of the accident. 
The Holy Cross Hall sophomore said that she hopes to go home to Rebondo Beach in Southern California by Christmas, but she doubts that she will make it. "I have to learn how to walk again," she explained, "and that may take some time." She added that she is currently undergoing therapy for her injured legend her weakened arms. 
Concerning school, Waldeck said that she hopes to make up as much of this semester as possible, but coming back next semester depends on her recovery. 
The most important thingat the moment, however, is just getting back on her feet. In about two weeks she hopes that her pelvis will have healed enough to let her actually get up and begin her walking therapy. 
The Observer is published dally during lhe college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 




Hans Hnus 
2803 South Michigan Street-Phone 291-5522 
German FoQd Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
• South Bend's Finest Banquet Rooms 
The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms Open 10,30 a.m. to 10,30 P.m.-Closed Sundays and Holidays 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Thursday, December 6, 1973 

the observer 
3 

Macheca considers parking ban 
by Rick Scharf ministrators, faculty and students, authorized to park on campus Staff Reporter listed among its priorities the additional perimeter parking lots implementation of security and would be necessary. The Board's 
John Macheca, dean of students, traffic policies that would assure study indicated that there are is considering a ban on all cars the maximum personal safety of approximatly 600 authorized from parking on campus. each member of the community, vehicles on campud , and that a Although the elimination of all on­and the improvement of the minimum initial cost of between campus parking might enhance pastoral and natural beauty of the $90,000 and $110,000 would be the natural beauty of the campus, campus. necessary for the new perimeter practically speaking such action is The Board recommended "That lots. A shuttle bus was considered far from becoming a reality at there be no on-campus parking for for transportation from the Notre Dame. anyone (students, staff, faculty, or perimeter lots to campus 
On-campus parking was administrators), but it would seem locations, but such a plan, reviewed at length in the second that such a plan would be just and requiring an estimated $30,000 annual report of the ND Security workable only if it applied to annually, was not recommended and Traffic Advisory Board everyone." "Since any point on campus is less T'eleased in May, 1973. The seven To provide parking spaces for than three blocks from one of the member board, made up of ad-those automobiles presentlv proposed or presently existingoff ­
The report, which appeared in staff members. However, in most the c_ampus publication Notre other communities workers
Trucks block Toll Road traffic 
Dame Report 17, is still being usually cannot park directly studied by the administration. The behind the building where they removal of on-campus parking work. Parking off-campus, as

in protest of rising gas prices 
cannot occur over night. "We are students do , would not over­looking at the report to see what burden most campus personnel. steps can be taken now," said John "However, some individuals' 
by AI Rutherford The stations withheld the fuel in least 1,500 trucks blocked Macheca, dean of students. "On­jobs require them to leave campus 
Staff Reporter campus parking will be eliminated during the day to attend meetings, 
complaince with President' Nixon's traffic on three places on the a little at a time." such as some administrators, andrequest that no fuel be sold from Ohio Turnpike and two main 
Between 80 and 100 trucks roads into Columbus, the state Currently several on-campus perimeter parking for them would
9:00p.m. Saturday until 12 p.m.
blocked east and west bound lanes Sunday. capital. parking areas are being examinied not be practical since a great deal of the Indiana Toll Road for three "We will continue this practice In addition, truckers say to see if they can be eliminated in of their working time would be hours yesterday afternoon. Their the near future. Exactly which wasted," Macheca pointed out.
until more definite legislation President Nixon's proposed
actions were in protest of the rising comes out." reported Roll. speed limit of 50 miles per hour areas will be the first to be This year the number of cas gas prices and the lowering of for all vehicles doesn't removed has not been determined. 
allowed to park on-campus did notIn further developments on the simply
speed limits. The reasons for removing cars increase over other years. "Now
trucking crisis as reported by UPI: make any sense for tractor­
The snarling of traffic occurred trailers. from campus, as Macheca echoed that we have stopped more cars about seven miles east of South U.S. Transportation Secretary the report, is pedestrian safety and from parking on-campus, we have
"I'm gonna .shut my truck 
Bend near the Current Road Claude S. Brinegar said in aesthetic appeal. "The campus to start decreasing the number of
down Jan. 1," said William 
overpass. Passenger cars though, Washington that in addition to a Walberger of Phoenix, N.Y. would certainly be more pic­cars allowed on-campus," were allowed to go through. probe of fuel prices, the Office turesque without the parking lots, Macheca stated, "and it will have
''I'm gonna get rig out of the 
said Macheca. to be a gradual process." 
According to L.G. Roll, chief of Petroleum Allocation would business. My truck is set up to 
engineer of the toll road, the trucks review "the allocation of fuel run 65. I got it out of the first started slowing down as they supplies" at truck stops. · factory that way. I'm now passed the administration building Brinegar also said there running in 9th gear. It would of the toll road heading westward. would be an investigation of the cost me $1,500 to change the 


Faccenda speaks on 
"We were on the scene almost as problems posed for truckers by rear end." soon as the trucks had stopped," sharply higher fuel costs. The Ohio Highway Patrol 1·eported Roll. "When "I am well aware these said truck drivers shut down 27 
the eastbound trucks saw the truckers, who play such a vital miles of the turnpike between 

LaFortune renovation 
stoppage, they also pulled over." role in maintaining the strength the Sandusky-Norwalk and Lo­
"Before long, over a hundred of the economy, are now rain-Elyria exits at about 7 (continued from page 1) trucks were clogging the road on experiencing serious prob­a.m. <EST>. 
the opinion of other departments of was more than $750,000.
lems," said a the University.
both sides of the road," continued Brinegar, mem­In Teamsters In he the
Chicago, Union addition, citedRoll. "They had five of the ber of President Nixon's President Frank E. Fitzsim­Trustee's decision to assign the
truckers act as their spokesman." Cabinet-level energy emergency 'commitment to something'
mons sent a telegram to the current Psychology building to the'They had several grievances council. President asking him to ar­Student Affairs department as a
and so we went back to the ad­He urged truckers to avoid range a meeting with govern­Vice-President for Business
further reason to "reconsider the 
Affiars Fr. Wilson said he "never them recalled Roll. "By this an effort is made to find the "catastrophic" impact of dreamt" the project would be so ministration building to discuss any new demonstrations "while ment energy officials to discuss total project." The Psychology 
department will be transferred to expensive.
time. there was newspaper and TV solutions to the problems." 
high gas prices on truck the old Biology Building next Fall. 
coverage of the whole event." A spokesman for President drivers. -"We will do some things, even if
"Now," he added, "instead of
Roll continued, "After they Nixon said, "This is a time to "On behalf of the more than we don't find money for the whole 
going back and getting the
take positive steps to solve the project. We were aiming for the
voiced their complaints, they two million members of the students all geared up, and coming renovation of the basement, even
continued on their way and problem and that's what the In I erna tiona! Brotherhood of up with another set of plans, in­promised no further stoppages in President is doing." though the Board of Trustees
Teamters, I urgently request a corporating both buildings, which 
thought it was too high a price. So
Indiana." Under repeated questioning, meeting be arranged promptly then, in turn, might very well be
Prices for diesel gas on the toll however, Gerald Warren under your sponsorship and shot down, we went about getting
road are 35.9 for regular and 36.9 refused to say whether the guidance for full duscussion of for premium gas. Prices for gas President condoned the high­the problems facing the truck-_ used by most cars is running 42.9 way blockades. 
ing industry as a result of the r . M.t I L 11 
for regular and 46.9 for premium. The Delaware Memorial Brid­energy crisis," Fitzsimmons JOnl l C.tJ.e 
Three outlets, Standard, Arco, and ge, which connects New Jersey said in a telegram to the Union 76 supply gas for the toll and Delaware, was shut dovm President. road. for seven hours Wednesday "As you know, the impact of 
All gas stations were open last morning until truckers told the energy crisis upon the 
to perform

Sunday but only one, supplied by Iheir story to hundreds of earnings and employment of Arco, sold gas to . The gas reporters and dispersed. Police, our membership is more stations are under contract to fearing violence, made no immediate, direct and catas­

in January

provide services at all times such arrests. trophic than on any other as engine repairs or tire changes. There were monumental rush comparable segment of our Asylum recording artist JoniBut gas was sold only to trucks. hour traffic jams in Ohio as at economy," Fitzsimmons said. 
Mitchell will perform an assort­ment of her compositions on January 21 in the Convocation 
Center, the Student Union today announced. The show marks the beginning of a rare tour for the Faccenda: "We went about set­artist, who last played a schedule ting the opinions of other depart­


Hughes associates ask 
of seven major cities in early 1972. ments." A new album wiill be released in 

for temporary injunction 
price."
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Six­The 16 have been subpoenaed early January. 
Many areas of the original plan, teen associates of billionaire to tell what they know of The Hughes group said they Tickets for the event will be 
were "entitled have he commented, could be made less 
recluse Howard Hughes asked $100,000 in cash Hughes gave to the $5.50, 4.50, and 3.00. 
expensive. Where the design was
for a temporary injunction through associates to Charles press and public judge for Wednesday to prohibit the G. "Bebe" Rebozo for Presi­themselves" by hearing tes­Concert Coordinator Richard 
Senate Watergate Committee dent Nixon's campaign. timony in public session. Donovan commented "We are originally for more expensive ex­
from questioning them in "We have no objection to Rebozo has told the commit­rushing to get tickets printed in booths, for example, less 
pensive movable furniture couldexecutive session. testifying before a public tee he returned the money to time for an initial sale on 
The Hughes group, all subpo­session," legal papers filed by Davis in June, after keeping it December 14 or 17. Students should be substituted. enaed by the committee, filed Hughes lawyer Chester Davis in a safe deposit box for three check with the A.C.C. Ticket Office papers in U.S. District Court said. "Our earlier voluntary years. next week as to exactly which day. Provost Fr. Burtchaell, says he claiming that news leaks from statements to the committee Last week the Hughes group Tickets will be on sale over the is still "very committed" to the executive session were have been followed by distor­filed suit to block the commit­vacation but we wanted to give renovation. "I hope we get the misleading and prejudicial to ted, incomplete and speculative tee from questioning them in students a crack at the choice funds for it, and that we get good their position. stories in the news media." private. seats." plans for it," he commented. 



Campus blood drive successful 
by Marlene Zloza Associate Editor 

Totals from last week's Red Cross blood drive at Notre Dame have again revealed an &ver­w~lmoing response from the ND­SMC community. 
A total of 431 pints of blood were ··eceived at Stepan Center and another 60 volunteers donated 60 pints at the South Bend Medical Foundation for the Notre Dame Fund. 
"We would like to thank the 
student workers, K of C members, and especially the donors for their cooperation," said student organizer Jack McKeon. 
Organizers actually had trouble accommodating all the prospec­tive donors and some people had to be turned away on the final af­ternoon. 
"It is a story of capacity and storage," according to Pete Meade, a worker in the program. The Fort Wayne Chapter of the Red Cross, sponsors of the blood drive, could only handle a limited amount of blood at one time due to equipment and processing procedures. 
"We really apologize to the people who had appointments for late Friday afternoon and had to be turned away due to the quota," added McKeon. The Red Cross accepted wotHk-ons during slack periods and reached their limit about 3 p.m. Friday. 
Commenting on the overflow, Meade stressed that the Red Cross is not used to such a generous response. "The situation here is unique, because our response always exceeds their capacity, and this doesn't haopen at other 

HPC discusses calender 
the fall semester before Labor Day if it became necessary to provide adequate free time during the semester, he added. 
Professor Arthur Quigley said, "The rec.son to move the calendar to end before Christmas was economic." 
The move saved the students the travel expense of going home for Christmas and then again two weeks afterwards for the semester break, Dr. Quigley said. 
Professor Walter Nicgorski expressed his concern of the effedt of the calendar on academics. 
He cited two main concerns: the "lame duck" sessions, caused by students leaving for vacation early or coming back late and the in­tensity of the pressure if a caldendar were adopted in which there is no midsemester break. 
"No one can ignore the traditions of our country with Thanksgiving or the hardships of our students. We must weigh all the con­siderations for the academic rhythm of the calendar," Dr. Nicgorski explained. 
Dr. Hofman stated that, from his poll f a number of freshmen, "There is very much a need for a break for the freshmen at mid­semester." 
Stressing the freshman's need for an interruption from the academics, Dr. Hofman observed, "I personally like this semester's schedule." 
Wally Gasior, HPC executive coordinator, pointed out that the early start "is more than an in­convenience for some; it will be a hardship. Som e people can't afford to wait for Father Burt­chaell's two years of evaluation." 
McLaughlin also disagreed that the midsemester study break is a necessity because "no matter when the break comes, students will use it to catch up on their work." 
"No matter how long the vacation is, the students will probably extend it on both ends and making the midsemester break longer will not solve that," McLaughlin added. 
Chris Neadeau, a student member of the Academic Council, attacked the council's decision having been released in December of 1972, at a time when student publications were shut down for the semester. That decision empowered the Administration to draft a calendar with a pre-Labor Day start. 
Responding to a question con­cerning why the students didn't protest that decision last spring, 
Glee Club to be on TV 
for Christmas presentation 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will "Carol of the Bells " "Here We sing on Chicago televisoon on Come A-Caroling," ~nd "Carol of Christmas Eve. In a taped ap-the Drum." pearance for WLS-TV,lhe club will The Christmas Eve show will be seen on "Fahey Flynn Presents mark the second appearance of the Christmas" at 10 p.m. Glee Club on Chicago television 
The Glee Club, under the this year. The club made a stop in direction of Dr. David lsele, will Chicago on their recent 

f1~~,~~~"fa;~;~,:~f:i~1:i;;;r'"«*"t 
Ombudsman Bill McLean stated, "We don't have a spokesman for the student body." 
"We have an HPC, an SLC, and a Student Body Government and it's hard for all of us to get together on the same action," McLean noted. 
Breen-Phillips Hall President Diane Merton allowed that the problem "may be deeper thanhhan the calendar schedule." 
"The Administration response makes it seem like student input doesn't mean anything," she said. 
Dr. Quigley remarked, "It is up to the Administration to do the administering. The Academic Council will provide guidelines and the students should also provide guidelines." 
Neadeau stated that there were three ways in which to get the Academic Council to discuss and vote on the calendar. 
First, an item may be placed on the agenda by the Academic Ccuncil Steering Committee. Second, r. Hesburgh could convene the council for the discussion. Third, a petition signed by ten Academic Council members to the President could ask him to reopen the Academic Council meetings. 
The first two possibilities having already been denied, Nedeau circulated the petition at the end of the meeting. 
places," explained McKeon. 
Due to processing and storage limits, the Red Cross cannot handle an unlimited supply in such a short time. "Everything that is taken is used," added Meade, and this takes time and manpower. 
Donor cards for last week's volunteers will be mailed shortly to all those who gave blood. This card identifies blood type, donation date, and offers free blood (minus lab costs) for one year to the donor and their immediate family. 

SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 
Anyone who still wants to donate to the NO Fund can do so at the Medical Foundation, located on Navarre. Becuase of a change in the na tiona! association system, all blood banks are switching to a voluntary program and "any help we can give them is needed," said Meade. Appointments can be made by calling the Foundation at 234­1157. 
The next ND blood drive is scheduled for April 4-5 of next year. 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty ND-5MC Staff 
$150 

Thieves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
When your parents are in town, have hem stay in South B·end's NEWEST Hotel 





:Rogal!Inn" 
31& S. SL Joseph Reserntions: (21&) 282-2511 
WEEKEND SPECIALS AVAILABLE 
For dining, visit our 
JOLLY KING RESTAURANT 
Jnd afterwards hit the "in spot" in town 
THE PURPLE JESTER DISCOTHEQUE LOUNGE. 
Dancing under psychedelic lights 0 r-n l l a.m.-2a.m. M 

Shakespeare Film Series presents Hugh Hefner's production of 


MACBETH 

directed by ROMAN POLANSKI 

from IMonday, bERSHEM MOTORJ Decle;ber 
{ ~*********************** ~~~~ 
:~~~: ~CHRISTMAS BONUS!: U
·:·:· * * =·=· 
1: * $100 off anv car : J 

:;:; l***********************'* ;::: 
@ We also have a 12 month ~~~~ 

4pm, 7pm, lOpm, 12pm 

j\j\ guarantee on all cars 11~ Special Midnite Showing! ~~::::::=:=:~=h=~====~=~=~=~=~1'==~::::::IJ~:~:M1::~:!::1~tilr::gJ!gzl~==============j .______E_N_G_IN_E_E_R_I_N_G=---A-=-=U-=D=-----:I:___:T___::O::_:R:....:....:....IU~M~___J 
~ t; ' '• • ' .... 
.' ' . '. ~ ~ 
Thursday~ ~c~rn~r 6, 1973 
the observer
. , i\ . ), 
5 

Committee suggests honor codes 
C.S.C. in the spring of 1972 to insight, experience and knowledge 
The Committee on Campus establish a clearer understanding governed by integrity. Also, Honor has recommended that of the principles of conduct at the through a fair system of criticism, students, faculty and ad­university. Dr. Edward Vasta, evaluation and judgment the Dl inistrators each develop their chairman of the Department of educational tradition continues own honor codes in keeping with English, headed the 13-member into the future. The nature of 
Notre Dame's ideals and academic committee. Notre Dame further includes purpose. In its report, the group noted that regard for the ideals of democratic 
The group also recommended the concept of Honor at Notre humanism. that associations between alumni Dame is closely entwined with the According to the committee or friends and the university be general nature of education and report, dishonor occurs when there governed by clearly defined ethics the specific nature of the is a deviation from the model of arising from Notre Dame's ideals. university. educational principles or the 
The committee, composed of The nature of education, the humanistic model of behavior; students, faculty and ad­committee said, assumes a when there is a misinterpretation ministrators, was commissioned multidimensional, , rigorous of the purpose and method of one by Rev. James T. Burtchaell, pursuit of truth and a sharing of model with the other; when the 
Denmark Premier resigns 
By JAMES WARD replace the military with a Asked if he would accept the 
COPENHAGEN <UPI) telephone service that would job of forming a new govern­Premier Anker Joergensen tell callers in Russian, "We ment, Joergensen said, "I don't resigned Wednesday after his surrender." think that is realistic after the Social Democratic party fell 
He has conceded, however, election outcome (but) I'll workvictim to a shattering election out something.''
defeat in a voter revolt against that he would not now have the 
votes in parliament to undo the
high taxes and inflation. He His Social-Democratic party
country's NATO obligations.
told Queen Margrethe he would Glistrup, whose new Progress won a plurality in Tuesday'shead a caretaker government 
new Party picked up 28 seats in the elections despite losing 24 of its
until a coalition is formed. 
179-mem ber Folketing (par­70 seats, suffering the worst Joergensen met Wednesday liament), is under investigation defeat in its century-old history. evening with the leaders of the for refusing to pay taxes. 
The leftist Socialist Peoplesother parties at Christiansborg "The voters' verdict was so party, the coalition partner ofCastle, seat of parliament, and clear that I had to resign," the Social Democrats in the oldsaid afterward, "I would not be Joergensen told newsmen. "I government, also lost ground insurprised if another election is promised the Queen to head a the balloting, as did thecalled." 

caretaker government and established Conservative, Liber­
Opposition to the Social sound out possibilities of a new al and Radical parties. Democrats was led by mil­government coalition. With a lionaire lawyer Mogens Glis­total of 10 parties in the The new Central Democratic trup, who promised to abolish Folketing (Parliament), includ­party, which also called for the income tax, fire half the ing several new faces, it won't easing of taxes, picked up 18 country's civil servants and be easy." seats. 



Nixon's bank records exa111ined 
By LESTER C. KJOS 
MIAMI (UPI) -The Key Among those reported to have make this public until the Biscayne National Bank, owned had a trust account at the bank President discloses his finan­by President Nixon's close was Bahamas Prime Minister ces," Frates said. friend C.G. "Bebe" Rebozo, Linden 0. Pindling. However, a Gerstein declined again to agreed Wednesday to turn over spokesman has quoted Pindling detail why he had subpoenaed Nixon's banking records to a as saying: "I do not have an the Nixon records, except to state attorney who is conduct­account in that bank and have say it was part of his ing his own Watergate investi­never had an account in that Watergate investigation. gation. The bank said it had bank." Gerstein has reportedly been White House permission. The Nixon account records, trying to link the $100,000 
Attorney William Frates, specifically a $100,000 certifi­certificates with a $100,000 representing the bank, said the cate of deposit believed pur­contribution made by Howard records would be turned over to chased in 1969, would not be Hughes to Rebozo in 1970. the Dade County (Miami) state released to news media under Rebozo has said he held the attorney's office Thursday. He the agreement between Ger­money in a safety deposit box said the White House had stein and Frates, at least until until returning it to Hughes approved the transaction. Nixon discloses his personal interests. 
At a noon court appearance finances as planned. Frates, asked if there was Wednesday, State Attorney "We have an agreement from · such a link, said Wednesdy: Richard Gerstein and Frates the state attorney's office not to Absolutely not." also agreed that Circuit Judge Paul Baker would privately study the names of holders of 
Avoid the Christmas 
fewer than 10 trust accounts at the bank to determine if there might be any Watergate 
...


rush!
nections. If any Watergate 
0 0

connections could be establi­shed, it was agreed those 
Get your hair styled 
soon, before you go
records also would be turned 
over. 
home for semester break. Have a Merry Christmas, Happy New

RESEARCH 
Year, and beat the hell out of 'Barna.
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage !delivery time is 


ahe Wi~Wjammer
1 to 2 days). RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
goal or spirit of one model conflicts with the other, or when no con­nection exists between the abstract models and the actual life of the Notre Dame community. 
The committee defined honor as "a process which combining self­esteem, regard for others and dedication to a spiritual ideal, enables personal conduct to transcend the verdicts of others, and enables a community to preserve its life unaffected by the praise or blame of the larger world." The report noted that this concept differs from the popular sense of "honor" associated with chivalry. 
In the course of the study, a survey was conducted in which faculty, administrators and students were asked to judge several hypothetical acts. While there was a consensus that certain actions, such as a student sub­mitting a purchased paper as his own, were blameworthy, and other actions, such as a committee punishment of a student's cheating were praiseworthy, a division in judgment existed regarding other acts. For example, unilateral etablishment of student housing policies by the administration, was judged more positively by ad­ministrators than by students or faculty. 
The committee concluded that differences in judgment were caused by variations in perception mainly arising from the charac­teristics of each group. 
The Observer 

Christmas Party 


Frolics 

For all Observer People Dec. 7 8:00pm Holy Cross Halfway House See editors or department heads for tickets and more 
information 
We want everyone there. 


Town & Country 'Hours: Mon-Thurs: 12-9

11941 WILSHIRE BLIJD., SUITE #2 
All services by appointment -no waitingi 

Shopping Center Fri: 11-9

LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 
;(Mini Mall) Sat: 10-6

!213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 
Our research material is sold for research assistance only. 
1637 lincolnWay W. 232-6622 Phone 255-2722 Sun: 12-5 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSI"'''=SS:  ?A1-7471  Advertising Manager  

Thursday, December 6, 1973 
No Surprise 
A Professional Mag? 
The job of the news media is to report on subjects of general interest and im­portance. The birth of a child in one of Notre Dame's newly-coed women's dorms is not one of those topics. 
The abuse of this item in the opening paragraph of a feature on coeducation in the December 3 issue of Newsweek reeks of poor taste and sensational reporting. 
At the time of ine incident, The Ob· server editorial board thoroughly discussed the subject after carefully gathering the true facts and consulting several university authorities. In view of the possible ramifications and the per­sonal injury that could be incurred by the involved parties, the story was killed. More importantly, the adoption of the child would have been seriously impaired by the pubication of the story. This is the decision that Newsweek, who first received their information from misinformed sources, also should have made. 
Journalism inyolves discretion and judgement in discerning what is newsworthy. The case in point is not news, nor is it exemplary, as the article seems to imply, of the progress of coeducation at Notre Dame. The Newsweek reporter who spent a day and much precious time here talking to faculty members, university officials and students found something mor~ salient and applicable on which to comment. The article, in one of the nation's leading news magazines, mentions Notre Dame 
twice,  and  only  in  relation  to  this  
irrelevant occurance.  
The  Observer  may  only  be  an  

"amateur" newspaper; Newsweek's conception of journalism is less than professional. 
Ann McCarry 

Ms.r:~ivinr:~s 

Initiate The Draft 

maria rJallavher 
The archdiocese ofNew York, in an effort to fill its need for Roman 
Catholic priests, has appropriated $100,000 for a "recruiting 
drive" for seminarians .. "it's a heck of a good life for a young 
man," said Cardinal Cook, "I don't know why more of 
them don't go into it." -News item 
Even without the President's declaring a War on Poverty, Chastity, and Obedience, somehow the number of vocations has in recent years dropped off faster than a three-year-old at a homily. Unlike the good old days, when you listened for that "inner voice" or started taking your wallflower status as a sign that your dance of life was reserved for God, well, such ideas have gone the way of the Latin mass. Nobody believes anything they hear anymore, and nobody dances anymore, either--which is a pity. Ugly daughters are no longer banished to convents and even Mamas find being a doctor or lawyer more palatable than the priesthood these days. 
But the sturdy Church, which has survived wars and rumors of wars, false popes, defunct colleges, and bad movies for nearly 2,000 years, has proved herself adaptable in the past, and adaptable she will be--even if the "inner voice" has to be channeled first through Madison Avenue. Since she's facing a problem very similar to that which the U.S. faced when patriotic young men stopped joining the armed forces, I suggest she turn to the same device: the draft. 
Now, it would be such a simple procedure. All male baptisees would receive a holy card with their identification and status on it which could, of course, alter in due course.1-A would mean No Excuse; 2-S would exempt him if he promised to attend a Catholic college or university; 4-F would indicate a physical impediment (such as inability to stay awake at Mass or keep a secret); 4-S would indicate a spiritual impediment (in which case St. Augustine wouldn't have gotten anywhere); and a very special classification--1000$--would be considered in lieu of a contribution of servir·•s. I don't know what they would do about conscientious objectors. 
Of course, no one with a 1-A classification would be compelled to do the six weeks basic and two yearsservicein a seminary (remember, this is a vocation we're talking about--a Special Calling), but a little audio-visual aid never hurt anyone, right? The popular cliche "Try it, you'lllike it!" seems perfectly fitted to the program. The benefits of discount food and lodging (not to mention courtesy car) could also be emphasized in the light of inflationary trends. It is not difficult to envision an elderly, mitered bishop pointing a living color finger at you, appealing ''I want you for the Roman Catholic Priesthood!'' Or, a more indirect approach: a pleasant, clean-<'ut <but not crew cut) Roman collared young fellow beckoning, ''The Priesthood builds Men." Or, there's always the global ("See Africa!") or educational pitches ("Ifyou stay, we'll pay your way"). 
Imagine Bishop Sheen, God-loving-you on network television to join up. Imagine Larry Lujack doing a commercial about how Today's Priesthood wants you. There are unlimited slogan possibilities. Imagine riding the subway and seeing (nestled between Seagrams 7 and the American Cancer Society) "You don't have to be married to be a Father," with a cleric beaming down on you.Or: "Marry the girl of your dreams" (with background picture of a handsome priest marrying his high school sweetheart to some out-of-town fellow). Advertising would have to be extremely imaginative since no sex pitch could not be used--there's not a whole lot of that in the priesthood (well, there isn't supposed to be). 
A father step would be to make the Knights of Columbus on all Catholic campuses a sort of ROTC unit, complete with courses and credit. ("You can be a Monsignor in just two years!") 
Or, perhaps the seminary education could be elevated to more honorable status by making seminaries selective, like the service academies, with students accepted only "by diocesan appointment." That might make the seminary look not only attractive, but com­petition for the few available openings might result. 
We'll know the archdiocese of New York has gone too far when we come across a full-page entreaty for seminarians in Playboy. Meanwhile, it'll be interesting to see what words Madison Avenue 
chooses to put in the 'inner voice's' mouth. 

f 
The revelation that Alabama has released 5 times as many tickets to its students as Notre Dame should have come as no real surprise to any one. It should really have been expected. Consider the experiences of the past year and it should just follow in line-­
Women Off-Campus: The University declared that women could not live off campus because they were needed--in sheer numbers--to give the impression of co-education. The small number of women who wished to move off-campus was not. allowed. 
Calendar: The University shoves a calendar that is opposed by three out of every four students down their throats. It seems that the student body is being helped "whether they want our help or not." 
Parietal Violations: A graduate student from Lewis Hall is summarily thrown out of school--given the op­portunity to withdraw--after she is found co-habitating her room last January. Her sentence is handed down without any effort towards due process by this Christian Community. 
-· 
Countless other occurences throughout the few months simply reinforce in the minds of students that theironlypurpose here is to pay tuition, go to classes and leave without any benefits being handed them or attention paid to them. 
That really seems to be the case with the bowl tickets. The ticket office showed an incredible lack of foresight first, in the process they initiated for sale to students and second, in the division of the tickets. 
It's rather clear that it's too late to do anything about the student allocation of tickets for the Sugar Bowl, but the Ticket Office and Manager Don Bouffard should be prepared to change their allocation formula next time around. 
It must be noted that Alabama and Notre Dame are two schools whose methods of funding are completely dif­ferent. Alabama is a state school. Notre Dame is private and depends on con­tributing alumni to pay the debts that student tuition doesn't cover. But is that reason enough to create the amazing disparity in numbers between those tickets set aside for students and those set for alumni and faculty? 
Bouffard should consider this formula for future games. (Working from a breakdown similar to the Sugar Bowl allocation) If 13,000 tickets are received by the university, 2500 should be marked for student sale. That would give ap­proximately one in every three and a half students the opportunity to buy a ticket. They should be sold on a non-seniority system using the method described in Tuesday's Observer. 
The remaining 11,500 tickets would then be available to faculty and con­tributing alumni. If tickets are left after the student sale, they can be funnelled back into this bracket. Again, a lottery can be used if more than 11,500 ap­plications for tickets are received. 
This is a much more equitable way to divide up the tickets for a bowl game. No one is asking the ticket office for 5000 student tickets, only a division that is more in line with student needs. 
But, then, does anybody really care what we want around here? Jerry Lutkus 
(..-l.i (.___. 
{)(Q©C rv11')f\ 
1'11<. PHI<£/J, TH& ~ COI111111&E WOf/t£1 t/KE : 10 THANK YOU fiJR ORbAN!ZIN6 
• SO EFFECTIVEL-Y AU THE 
· TESTIMONY /11£ HAVE HEAR!) 7rJ PATE. -----­
'c 
1/" YGS, SENATOR. . . 
CO//NSGL ANI) I HAVE I'!<EPAR£1) A liSTOF WHAT WG FEEL-ARE THE 111/VIHAL HA'TE!<IALS R£(}f/IREf) 
10 AUEV!AT/3 711E C//RRGNT CRISIS.. PROCEE/1.
\ ........_____ 
VVc.......-<-...--: 
© © ©'­
011 ,.., NOW THEN, 
HAVE YOfl 11EI1tZEf) 
THost HEASf/R£5 YOfl PE£11 
NG(ESSARY FOR A SHOI<T­
1/iRM CESSATION OF THE 
5flfF£RING Or 501/THEAST 
ASIAN R£Ff/6EES? 
......._______ 
3.5 MIU!ON StEEPING 
8A65 ... HOtf) IT. ........_ 
D. 
a 
a 
:I 
II 
Ill 
cr 
.,c 
'< 

-----·----~~-­

Thursday, December 6, 1973 the observer 

Gerald Ford becomes new Veep 
By Gene Bernhardt Washington UPI 
House Republican Leader 
Gerald R. Ford 1:1ecomesthe 40th 
vice president of the United States today. The House of Representatives 
was gathering two hours earlier than its usual noon starting time to take up President Nixon's nomination of the 60 year old Michigan lawmaker, made Oct. 12, two days after Spiro T. Agnew resigned and pleaded no contest to a charge 
of tax evasion. the nomination by a president to 
It was the 17th time that a fill a vacancy in the vice vacancy in the .nation's second presidency. highest office had to be filled. But The Senate gave its over­it was the first time Cong ,ss whelming approval of Ford on played a direct, constitutional )le Nov.I 27, with a 92-3 vote. The in the selection. ·House was ready to give final 
The situation was created by the • confirmation with an equahy 25th Amendment to the Con-lopsided vote today. stituition, prompted by the Ford has guessed there would be assassination of John F. Kennedy 25 votes against him out of a in 1963, which left the post vacant possible turnout of all 434 House for 13 months under President members. His leading critic, Rep. Lyndon B. Johnson. The amend-Jerome Waldie, RR-Calif., ment, enacted in 1965 and ratified claimed only 40 to 50 "no" votes. in 1967, calls for majority votes of The House Rules , Committee the Senate and House to confirm gave speedy and unanimous ap­proval-Wednesday to clear the confirmation for floor action today, permitting a maximum of six hours of debate. 
Speaker Carl Albert, working with Ford in anticipation of easy confirmation, agreed to swearing in ceremcnies in the House shortly afte rthe vote. Ford told UPI the President offered a White House ceremony. But Ford preferred to be sworn in the House chamber. "'This is an emotional thing," he I told UPI. "I've spent 25 years , here, and the Speaker Carl Albert, I know, was also anxious that it be here." Nixon, the Senate, the CAbinet, the Supreme Court, the Joint Chiefs of · Staff and the diplomatic corps will gather in the chamber where Ford has served for 25 years, the last eight as GOP leader. 
Chief Justice Warren Burger was called on to administer the oath as Ford's wife, Betty, holds a Bible owned by their son, Michael, a first year student at the Gordon ConwellTheological Seminary in Hamilton, Mass. 
The history-making event will be 
shown  to  the  nation  over  live  
television,  probably  around  5:30  
p.m.  EST.  






Hunters bag li:mit 'Without shot 
STUTTGART, Ark. <UPI) ­They call this little place the "Mallard Capitol of the South" and duck hunters usually have dandy luck. 
But Roberta Essex and her husband bagged their limit in their front yard without firing a shot. 
The ducks, frozen in midflight by freak weather conditions as they headed south for the winter, dropped like huge 
hailstones  on  Stuttgart.  
"They  got  up  there  in  the  
colder  atmosphere  and,  just  

like an airplane, got iced over," said Lloyd McCollum, chairman 
the observer 
STAFF BOX 
Nite Editor: Albert D'Antonio A'sst Nite Editor: Rick Blower Layout: Tom Racine, Ayn Moriarty Typists: Barb Norcross, John Flan· nigan, Tom Modglin Nite Controller: Phil Orscheln Day EditQr: Jack Kelley Copy Ediotr: Terry Keeney Compugraphic: Tom Wich Pictures: Jerome Phillips Phreak: w. Stempel Nichols Special Guest: Jerry Youngblood 
of the Arkansas Game and Fish 
Commission,  who  lives  in  
Stuttgart.  "They  got  ice  on  
their  wings and couldn't  fly.  In  

short, they just froze to death. 
"They were very healthy looking ducks and a bunch of people just picked them up and ate them," he said. "I'm sure they're just as good as freshly killed and of course they were." 
Mrs. Essex and had husband can attest to that. They had six of them in their freezer Wednesday. They cleaned seven ducks the day they fell. 
"We ate one of them and one we had from last year-and they tasted about the same," Mrs. Essex said. "They were good." 
The day the ducks came tumbling down was a wild and turbulent one in Arkansas. Several twisters were sighted over the state and several touched down amid violent thunderstorms, wind flurries and hail storms. 
Two tornadoes were sighted along the outskirts of Stuttgart where they did minor property damage. 
"It was about 4 p.m.," said McCollum. "Within 10 to 15 minutes all of them had come down-all mature, fairly heavy ducks." 
TONIGHT'S THE NITE 
500 FREE Games at 




Nickie's 
GIRLS: Sign-ups tonight ONLY for next Thursday's pool tournament (First 32 girls) 
STUDENT UNION INVITES YOU TO 


ACAPULCO 
8 DAYS, 7 NITES MARCH 11 18 DIRECT FROM CHICAGO VIA AMERICAN AIRLINES 
$245 includes 
-Round trip jet transportation -Meals served in flight each way -Transfers & baggage handling -Preregistration of rooms -Half day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay {with open bar) --7 nites lodging at beachfront hotel -All taxes and service charges. 
RESERVATIONS NOW BEING TAKEN AT S.U. TICKET OFFICE. 
$30 DEPOSIT (CHECKS ONLY) PAYABLE TO S.U. SPRING TRIP. DEPOSITS DUE BY DEC. 14 




for further information call 7789. 


Thursday, December 6, 1973
the observer 
Romanian oil supply dwindles 

By HENRY KEYS 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Rom anian President Nicolae Cea usescu held out little hope Wednesday that his country could boost its oil shipments to the United States. 
His statement on oil came after two days of talks with President Nixon that ended with the two leaders urging expanded economic relations between the two countries. 
"We are also worried. about 
800 
~ween the two nations. They 
mclude:

Dow Jonesdrops below 
-A pledge that the two 
781.35.

NEW YORK <UPil-the Dow Jones In little more than five weeks the industrial average dropped 14.90 average of 30 blue chips stocks has points to 788.31 on the New York plundged 198.75 points, the largest Around 3 p.m. with the average Stock Exchange Wednesday, for such decline in any three month firmly set below 800, the selling the first time in more than two period. The last time . it went pace sped up, and the tape was years the influential indicator below 800 was November 27, three minut3es late when the closed below 800. 1970, when the final mark was market closed. 
Police ''der:Jonstrate dangers'' of gas trt~nsported in trwik 
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. <UPil -The Tennessee High­way Patrol and the Chat­tanooga Police Department 
joined  forces  Wednesday  to  
demonstrate  the  dangers  of  
hauling  extra  gasoline  in  the  

trunk of a car. They had their problems. 
The officers summoned re­porters and cameramen, sealed off a hillside street and brought up two junked cars. One junked car was parked at the foot of the hill, its trunk doused with gas. The second car was set free to roll down 70 feet the 
SBA administrator questioned 
By CHERYL ARVIDSON 
WASHINGTON <UPil -The chairman of the House Banking Committee Wednesday accused Thomas Kleppe, administrator of the Small Business Adminis­tration, of presenting a "care­lessly c o n s t r u c t e d smokescreen" to mislead a congressional subcommittee in­vestigating the SBA. 
In a letter to Kleppe, Rep. Wright Patman, D-Tex., said he was "deeply disturbed" by the testimony Kleppe gave Tuesday to the House Small Business subcommittee during public hearings on the SBA. 
Patman made specific refer­ence to Kleppe's charges of "smear and.innuendo" similar to the tactics employed by the late Sen. Joe McCarthy in the early 50s during his anti­communism crusade. Kleppe made the charge against Curtis Prins, chief investigator for the committee who has spearhead­ed the investigation of charges of illegal loan making and criminal activity in the SBA. 
"The investigator you saw fit to attack publicly in Tuesday's session is an employe of the full Banking and Currency Commit­tee and as such operates under my supervision," Patman told Kleppe. 
"I have the fullest confidence in this employe and I deeply resent the kind of personal attack which I understand you leveled against him, and I do the same thing," Ceausescu told a National Press Club Lunch· group. "We have a program of our own for the development of various power resources available, including research in the Black Sea for new resources. 
"We are very ready to accept the cooperation of U.S. compa­nies to look for oil in that area... but (as for oil deliveries from Romania to the United States) I will have to regretful-
hill. 
It smacked the gas-doused car firmly in the rear, but nothing happened. 
The officers tried again. This time the rolling car missed its target altogether, jumped a median and dented a police car. 
A third try -the rolling car was set free nearer its target, and a series of flashbulbs was rigged to provide a spark. Nothing happened. 
Frustrated policemen then discarded all pretense of a demonstration and flung flam­ing newspaper into the car 
not know what this kind of attack contributes to what I thought was our joint effort to clean up SBA." 
Patman said Kleppe's tes­timony "rather than being a frank assessment of the prob­lems was largely self serving and deteriorated into somewhat personal attacks on the com­mittee and its staff." 
"While I want to be as generous to you as possible," Patman said, "your perfor­mance on Tuesday appears to be a carelessly constructed smokescreen designed to mis­lead rather than to inform." 
Noting that the full commit­!ee must decide "very soon" whether to expand the loan making authority of the SBA, Patman said he had hoped he 

®PIONEER.. 
Representatives will be demonstrating 4 Channel stereo and other Quad 
recording techniques. TIMES: 1,3,5 & 7 pm ~~~(i) DAY· Friday, Dec. 7 421 N. Hickory
• South Bend 
iy submit that for more than a 
hundred years (we) have sent 
petrol to other parts of the 
world including the United . States. 
"That is one of the reasons 
why we cannot produce enough 
today to cover the needs, both 
of Romania and of other 
countries." 
Romania currently exports 
only 6,400 barrels of oil a day to 
the United States-a small 
fraction of the volume from 
trunk. But the gasoline fumes had evaporated and the paper burned out. So they threw some more gasoline into the trunk, added some more burning paper, and finally produced a fire. 
A waiting fire truck, its moment finally at hand, moved in and put out the flames. Photographers stored their cameras and everyone who attended the demonstration began driving away. 
The car caught fire again. Firemen hastily returned to the scene to douse it for a second time. 
could take the legislation to the House floor and say that Kleppe "had no intention of attempting to minimize the problem or to mask its depth." 
Patman added: "Bombastic counter-attacks may be in vogue at this point in time, but I do not feel that they provide the kind of assurance that the members of Congress will need in voting additional authority for your agency to make loans and to guarantee loans." 
Patman said he hoped Klep­pe's testimony before the subcommittee in sessions next week "will be responsive to the real issues and that you will not lapse into irrelevant presenta­tions and personal attacks on either the committee or its employes." 
foreign sources. Venezuela, for example, provides about 600,000 barrels daily. 
The  statement  issued  by  
Nixon  and  Ceausescu  put  the  
United  States  on  record  as  

opposing intervention "direct or indirect, for any reason whate­ver," into the internal affairs of the Communist bloc nation. 
The joint statement on economic, industrial and tech­nological cooperation outlined 13 guidelines for spurring economic trade and scientific and industrial exchanges be-
governments will facilitate cooperation between firms in-
Dotltletthe price ofa college education stop you. 
The price of a college education is skyrocket­ing. Fortunately the Air Force had done some­thing to catch up with it. For the first time, the 6500 Air Force ROTC Scholarships include the 2-year program, for both men and women. 
If you can qualify, the Air Force will pay for the remainder of your college education. Not only do ROTC 2-year college scholarships cover full tuition, but reimbursement for text­books, lab and incidental fees, as well as a tax­free monthly allowance of $100. 
To cash in on all this just apply, qualify, and enroll in the Air Force ROTC at Building 5; contact Capt. Shepherd, 283-6634. 
It's a great way to finish your college educa­tion in the money, and enjoy a future where the sky's no limit ... as an officer in the Air Force. 
·i?.!''§"if*''*#f!i···~ . 
WITH COUPON : 
FULL EIBIIE TUIE-UP : 
CjiJs2o••i 
ANY 6 CYL . U. 5. AUTO : 
ADD $4 FOR 8 CYL. CARS. , 
AIR COND. CARS $2 MORE,: 
INCLUDES PLUGS, POINTS , 1 CONDENSr.R, CHECK 
CHOKE, TIME ENGINE, 
BALANCE CARBURETOR
---.------...--.-·-..." 
•• i!fi!lf.!:!!Mi.!l'&:ij'" 
WITH COUPON 
FROIITEIIDa
ILIBIMEIT ~ ~ 
MOST . 
AMERICAN G....,~ CARS ._.. 
PARTS EXTRA 
IF NEEDED 
................................ 
• ·Mq.JSit.!;i!Mi.iirp.t 4!• • 
WITH COUPON 
BRAKE RELINING 
EXCEPT DISC ~ BRAKES AND 
:~c:;;::• 
INCLUDES FULL INSPECTION • FLU 10 AND CLEAN, 
Vl\1 Ul\rJLE COUPON 
$444 PLUS IISTILUTIOI 
Snow Recaps 
$2295 560-15 
(plus F.E.T.) 
Premium 4 Ply Nylon 
Snow Tires 
F78·14 Blackwalls start as low as 
$1695 
(plus F.E.T.) 
20% OFF· 
on all tail pipes, exhaust pipes, and mufflers. 
Discount Tire Service 
50595 U.S. 31 North 
272-1023 
OPEN DAILY TIL 6 SATURDAY TIL 4 
!erested in trade. 

-That Romania, as a deve­loping nation, would be eligible for preferential treatment. 
-That currency payment between firms will be made in 
U.S. dollars or other freely convertible currency and that assets belonging to companies of one nation will not be expropria ted by the other without prompt and adequate compensation. 
-That both governments will facilitate the exchange of economic, technical and com­mercia! information. 
-That a joint U.S.-Romanian economic commission will meet annually to discuss broadening economic relations. 
Gas production to be cut 
WASHINGTON <UPil -As much as 1.5 million barrels a day of additional heating fuel may be made available by refiners' switching away from production of gasoline, govern­ment officials said Wednesday. 
The Cost of Living Council gave the refiners incentive to make the shift by authorizing them to increase prices of much-needed heating oil by 2 cents a gallon, or about 7 per cent, while lowering gasoline prices by a penny a gallon. 
The action, council director 
John T. Dunlop said, "is 
designed to encourage a shift in 
existing refiner production em­
phasis away from gasoline to those fuels which heat our the energy shortage. homes, offices and factories." 
"We must continue adequate distillate supplies for American industry because continu~d operation and expansion of industrial capacity is essential to the country's economic stability and the maintenance of jobs," Dunlop told reporters. 
Council officials said refiner­ies could shift their production in favor of heating oil in about two weeks and that this would yield between half a million and 1.5 million barrels a day of heating oil above current production levels. 
In what he called "our message to refiners," Dunlop said: 
"We want them to move rapidly to rearrange the way the refineries are operating; to move out of the production of gasoline at the margin and expand the production of distillates, and we are provid­ing this incentive to do it." 
Dunlop said a further an­nouncement would be forthcom­ing next week. 
The two-cent up, one-cent down formula was chosen to prevent what the council considered would be unaccepta­ble profits for the oil industry. 
However, council officials argued that the unusually large p1·ofits of the industry -up 60 per cent between July and October over the similar 1972 period -did not reflect a windfall by the companies from 
Panel proposes develop:ment of Naval petroleu:m reserves 
By EDWARD K. DeLONG 
WASHINGTON <UPil -A Pentagon energy panel has proposed full development of Ame1·ica 's vast and largely untapped Naval petroleum rese1·.ves, including multibillion dollar construction of a military oil pipeline across Alaska, it was learned Wednesday. 
The task group indicated this would render the Defense Department self-sufficient in meeting military petroleum requii·ements for either peace or war within 10 years and­depending on how it was carried out-might alc:o help relieve U.S. civilian ft.l11 shor­tages. 
This 1·ecommendation ap­peared unrelated to a proposal Tuesday by William Simon, the new U.S. energy policy chief, that the trans-Alaska pipeline approved bv Com!:ress last month be matched by a second pipeline. A spokesman for Simon said the energy chief was simply "recognizing the eventual need for an additional pipeline." 
Conservationists strongly op­posed authorization of the trans-Alaskan pipeline last r.10nth and proposals to built a second one-and particularly a 1hiJ·d one-would surely face even more opposition by organizations dedicated to per­serving Alaskan ecology and northeastern Pacific fishery from oil spills. 
Total costs of the program 
would run between $4 billion 
and $5 billion, the task group 
estimated in a report dated 
Nov. 15. It said about half this 
amount would be spent to build 
the pipeline, with the rest 
paying for oil field exploration 
and development. 
French government 
An unclassified version of the t·eport obtained by UPI said the proposed pipeline would run from Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 4, a 23.7 million acre field on Alaska's north slope, to an unspecified ocean terminal probably on the southwest Alaskan coast. 
Neither the Defense task group's proposal nor the one by Simon has been formally presented to Congress which would make the final determi­nation about construction of a new pipeline financed by the government. 
The Pentagon said the report of its energy task group, which was recently superceded by a larger Defense Energy Policy Council, was being studied ily the armed forces. A Defense Department spokesman said no decision had been reached on the report's recommendations. 
announces 
measures to bolster econo~ny 
BY GEORGE SIBERA 
PARIS <UPIJ -Faced with a general strike and rampant inflation, the government Wednesday announced tough emergency measures to shore up the threatened French economy. 
"We are entering difficult times," said Finance Minister Valery Giscard d'Estaing in outlining his plan. "An econom­ic slowdown and a world oil crisis are looming." 
To cope with an annual inflation rate of 11 per cent, Giscard announced rigorous pl"ice and profit controls, credit restrictions, reduced govern­ment spending and increased advance payments of income and company taxes. 
He declared no freeze on 
wages but called on unions and 
employers to cooperate in 
keeping down pay increses next 
year. 
As Giscard spoke, thousands of railwaymen stopped work for two days, disrupting large sections of the country's rail network. Mile-long traffic jams clogged roads into Paris and commuters were late to work and late getting home. 
With Paris housewives paying 
up to $8 for a kilo (2.2 pounds) 
of choice beef, 20 cents for the 
same amount of potatoes and one dollar for a dozen fresh eggs, public anger against soaring living costs has been rising steadily. 
Labor unions and left-wing parties called a 24-hour strike for Thursday to protest mount­ing prices and union sources said they expect widespread disruption. 
Rail and bus traffic will be seriously reduced and taxis will be in short supply, they said. Electricity cuts will hit indus­try, ports will be at a standstill, there will be no newspapers and some schools will close, union leaders said. 
Giscard told newsmen after the cabinet approved his plans, "Tomorrow's strike will seri­ously disrupt the economy. This is something we will have to pay for one day," he said. 
Adding to the economic troubles are the effects of the oil crisis. The massive Citroen auto company announced it was considering closing its factories between Christmas and New Year because of "the ill effect of the oil crisis on the sales of models abroad." Industry sources said Simca-Chrysler was likely to take a similar decision. 
FOR GREAT BUYS TRY 

*MAC'S RECORD RACK* 2925 Mishawaka Ave. 
next to River Park -Theater 
* lp's *needles *special *record orders cleaning *tapes equipment If we don't have it, we'll get It 
Just Arrived ! Bette Midler, Santana, Jim Croce 
CLC Deputy Director James 
W. McLane said most of the l"ise was due to international factors such as sharply higher tanker rates, currency ex­change 1·ate shifts, and higher selling prices in Europe and Japan that did not directly affect American consumers. 
Dunlop denied that the allowing higher prices for a vital commodity ran counter to the administration's anti-infla­tion campaign. 
"The CLC's responsibility, not only for petroleum but throughout the economy, is to strike a delicate balance in price to stimulate supply while watching that price increases are not unnecessarily large in the interest of the consumer," he said. 
DRIVEAWAYS 
Free Cars to All Parts of the Nation 
NOW 
THE MINIMUM AGE IS 
18 
call LARRY CASEY at 232-9034 
MUSIC 
FROM AMERICA COFFEEHOUSE FREE FOLK CONCERT 
FRIDAY 7:30-? 
CHRIS MANION 
JUDY JOYER BART POLLOCK & . JIM GRESSER 
BUCK & JOHN 
KEVIN DOCKRELL & PAT KRONENWETTER 

1:00am to?? Anyone with a guitar or whatever is welcome to until all -hours!
perform 
FREE FREE ADMISSION COFFEE & TEA Perhaps the greatest collection of folk talent ever to appear in America. 

\\1\'lccnws rlw 
FiG})tfnq IRfsh 
ro 

}v€W ORlE"~\IlS --cheRe wit~ BE no ~CRimson --c-ibe-1) \vheRe the RfveR sh~\nt1on Flows.... .'Jlnd w~'rc norjusr "'hfstlfn' D(Xf~! 

·, 

... 
Thursday, December 6, 1973
10 
the observer 
CILA projects aid slow learners 
by Gary Alietta the vacant advisory position. 
Staff Reporter One of the primary functions of 
CILA is helping people. Mary
Last summer, Jerry McCarthy Mullaney summed up the group'slived in a Clarksdale, Mississippi philosophy as "feeling compelled church and spent four and a half 
Notre Dame, but Fr. Don McNeil hours a day in the summer heat and Fr. Hubert Horan have filledtrying to teach slow learners. He to do a social service. You see howdid it as a volunteer for CILA. 
good off you are and you just have 
Observer lnsi,.ht 
People wonder why a person would want to waste a summer the way Jerry did. 
Ir:forming those people is the r.1ajor problem facing CILA. Most people do not know what the group is or why its members volunteer to do the work they do. 
CILA stands for the Council for the International Lay Apostolate. The group is composed mainly of members of the ND-SMC com­r.mnity, but several gradutes still try to remain active in the organization. The word in­ternational in the name means that the group extends its services to people outside of the US borders. 
In fact, when the organization first began, its main focus was on Latin American countries. Fr. Ernie Bartell formed CILA in 1962 and acted as an advisor in its early years. Fr. Bartell has since left 
Weicker plans to confront Nixon 
NEW YORK <UPl) If President Nixon refuses to meet with the Senate Watergate Committee "to answer ques­tions face to face," Sen. Lowell 
P. Weicker, R-Conn., plans to raise publicly questions about alleged presidential involve­ment in the scandal, the New York Daily News reported in its Thursday editions. 
The newspaper said it had learned from an unidentified source that Nixon is "skittish" about being questioned by Weicker, although he is willing to meet with committee chair­man Sen. Sam J. Ervin Jr., D­N.C., and vice chairman Sen. Howard H. Baker Jr., R-Tenn. The White House has not yet 
S,ocial Security bill killed 
WASHINGTON <UP!) -The Senate added so many amend­r.Jents to a bill increasing Social Security benefits that it would "serve no purpose" to seek a House-Senate com­promise, the acting chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee said Wednesday. 
Rep. Al Ullman, D-Ore., suggested that the Senate drop the amendments and pass a House bill granting a two-step 11 per cent increase in benefits during 1974. 
"The Social Security bill is in an almost impossible position unless we can agree to strip most of that stuff (the Senate amendments) out and limit it to essentials," Ullri1an said. "It would serve no purpose to go to conference now." 
Ullman's statement did not appear to put the bill's final 
passage  in  danger,  but  his  
position  could  delay  eventual  
passage.  

Both the House and Senate bills contain an 11 per cent increase. The Senate would to help those who aren't as for­tunate." 
Since the first summer CILA project in Peru in 1963, the program has added loca projects in South Bend during the school year and several other summer projects. Overall, the summer projects are the highlight of CILA. 
A project involves a group of students focusing their attentions in one area to ease another person or group's troubles, even if only in a small way. During the summer of '73, CILA carried on projects in Ciudad Altamirano, Mexico; at St. Jude's Hospital on Saint Lucia, an Island off the United States Coast; in Clarksdale, Mississippi; and on an Indian reservation in Belcourt, North Dakota. In all, 25 members participated. 
CILA pays for the transportation of its members to project areas, 
responded to the committee's invitation two months ago that Nixon meet with the senators in infot·mal session, although the News said White House sources indicate the President "is not seriously considering it." 
The News quoted Weicker as saying, "I, like other members of the committee, have a number of significant questions to ask the President. I had hoped I could ask them face to face. But, if not, they will be raised publicly anyway. Then, he (Nixon) can do what he wants." 
Weicker cautioned a group of Republican senators Tuesday to examine carefully a detailed accounting of Nixon's finances 
'The finest in Cantonese 

·Steaks 

Cuisine at Moderate Prices' 
Chicken 
Sea Food 
Quiet atmosphere 
CLOSED MONDAYS 

I ..: I J .; --' 
which the White House submit­.ted to the lawmakers and reportedly intends to make 
public later this week. 
The News said it had learned 
the Connecticut Republican's 
staff has prepared a "detailed 
legal brief contending that the 
President's federal tax deduc­
tions of more than $500,000 for 
his vice presidential papers to 
the National Archives did not 
conform to federal law." 
Weicker's staff contends the 
deductions, which reportedly 
reduced Nixon's tax bill to less 
than $1,600 for 1970 and 1971, 
were based on a law that 
expired in July, 1969, the 
newspaper said. 
and makes sure they are provided with room and board during the eight week stay. CILA also helps to pay for such things as materials, medicine and supplies used on the projects. Paul Smith, a fifth year EE major who worked on the Mexico project this past summer, said that for the transportation of the six people involved plus materials, the project cost arou.nd $3,000. 
Mullaney added that the money to pay for the projects comes from Christmas card sales, Mardi Gras, a student government allotment and donations. 
Each of the projects is unique but two conditions can be found common to all: hard work and poor surroundings. Mullaney, a '73 ND grad who was in Mexico in 1972, said that men in the Mexico program poured cement for floors at a government ranch while the women helped out in a nursing home caring for the elderly and sick. 
Mike Smith, a junior in pre-med, recalls spending long hot hours as Jerry McCarthy did, trying to teach slow learners in Clarksdale schools. Guys were housed in a church and girls lived in a convent. 
Why do CILA members go to so much trouble? The answer, ac­cording to Joe Marino, "Is elusive­-it's hard to pin it down and say it's this or that." 
However, Marino,vice-chairman of CILA, noted that he is con­ducting a study of social service groups on the ND campus. "Other groups tend to be individuals helping out and that's it. It's not a community function." He said that CILA works as a unit and tries to talk about experiences, applying them to other situations. 
Other members of the group agreed with Marino. They felt the main purpose of CILA was not just to help others, but also to have people near who share the in­terests and want to dicsuss com­mon experiences. 
Fr. McNeil stressed the im­portance of the follow-up discussion, especially after a summer project. He said that one 
Quiet Night
Concert 
Monday, Dec. 1 0 Washington Hall 9:30 pm FREE 
Courtesy of Student Government 
AKRON UNIVERSITY 
School of Law 
ON CAMPUS DEC. 7 
to interview students 
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY College of Law 
ON CAMPUS WED. DEC. 12 
to interview students 
See Pre-Low Society Bulletin Boord outside rm 101 O'Shog to sign up 
WEEKEND HAPPENINGS EVERYONE IS INVITED TO THE SOUTH BEND ARMORY 
BUY YOUR TICKETS NOW FOR THE "FINALS" FLING 
THIS SATURDAY 8:30 • 12:30 
$2.50 per person -available in the dining halls and Student Union Ticket Office 
BUS LEAVES ND CIRCLE AT: 8:: -: 15; 8:30; 8:45; 9; 9:15 SMC AT: -:05; 8:20; 8:35; 8:50; 9:05; 9:20 ARMORY AT: 11:30; 11:45; 12:00; 12:15; 12:30. 
CARTOON FESTIVAL 
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 9 ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM ADMISSION FREE 7:00 & 9:00 
of the key purposes of the trips is "to gain an understanding of the situation." 
F1·. McNeil pointed out the feeling of "smallness that comes with an experience when you know you can't change thee world." He was quick to add that the group is not "churchy," but not using any gimmicks, either. He said he does not like groups which broadcast what they are doing or sit around and talk about who they have saved. 
Fr. McNeil described CILA as "not a bunch of do-gooders ... who go around telling what good they've done." Rather they are concerned people who, by talking about their experiences, try to gain an understanding of their own situation. 

give the first 7 per cent immediately and the remammg 4 per cent in July. The House would give the first 7 per cent in April and the remainder in July. 
The basic points of the bills are quite similar, but the Senate ;;~dded numerous amend­ments including a cash "work bonus" of up to $400 a year for Ihe working poor. 
An amendment was also added to pay all but the first $1 of the cost of prescriptions for drugs to treat the most chronic common diseases of the elderly. 
Thursday, December 6, 1973 

Logan volunteers aid the needy 
This is the first of a two-part series by Observer reporter Jane Thornton exploring the problem of mental retardation and what's being done about ut. 
Bill Locke, Recreation Services Coordinator for St. Joseph's County Council for the Retarded, talks about getting a feel for what we do here." To find out what he means, one must see the ND-SMC recreation program at Logan Center. 
Co-coordinator Jay Long greets students and volunteers at the Logan School entranceway a little before nine who then head for the cafetorium. 
Long, after directing everyone to sit down, begins speaking. "All right, Thursday is Thanksgiving. "Were going to make this turkey ... " 
SMC student Peggy Convoy, co­coordinator Klem Bartosik, and other volunteers distribute baking potatoes, construction paper, Crayola crayons and tooth picks to the 15-or-so tables. 
Freshman volunteer Lisa Gambino and student Barbara Jean are cutting out a turkey head. 
"The first few weeks," Lisa tells me, "it was hard and scary, but now it's easier. I didn't know how to work. You have to work with a mixture of love and discipline. Even now there's so much I don't know but when I get out of here in four years, maybe I'll begin to understand." 
Bartosik explains how one deals with an individual's needs. " The only way to find the need is to work with the child for an extended period of time," he contends. " We encourage weekly at­tendance and teaching during the week. It's the only way the child knows what's expected of you. Sometimes the child knows he can get away with something, but that's eliminated if he knows the volunteer." 
Long wants to hurry tne stragglers and begin the next activity. Standing on one of the wooden chairs, he requests silence. 
"If you want to go swimming ... ," he begins. Everyone breakes for either the pool or the gym .. except Bill Locke. 
Locke's background is 
Norway bans 
weekend driving 
By United Press International 
Norway Wednesday became the latest European country to take strong measures in the face of the oil crisis, ordering a ban on weekend pleasure driving, gasoline rationing and a cutback in petroleum deliver­ies to industry. 
The Netherlands, the only Western European nation faced with an Arab oil· embargo, denied Wednesday that it was altering its views on the Middle East conflict to win Arab favor. 
In Britain, Trade and Indus­try Minister Peter Walker announced in Parliament a compulsory 50-mile-an-hour speed limit on all roads, new restrictions on indoor heating and a reduction in street lighting and illumination in shops. 
The West German govern­ment said it would ask parliament so approve subsi­recreation and physical education. As recreation director he aims at organizing evening activities to avoid interruption with school and employment schedules. He's responsible for daily physical therapy in the gym and pool as well as nightly bowling, horseback riding, swimming and special olympics. 
dies  for  low  income  families  
whose  fuel  cost  will  rise  this  
winter  because  of  the  oil  
squeeze.  

What's his philosophy in han­dling the children ·? "I tease them but when it comes time for discipline I can do that just as easy." Long has learned that mixture of discipline and love too. He pulls Jimmie in from the ad­jacent gym and orders him to sit until he does what he's supposed to. Eyeing another child, still silent and sullen, he steps over to him. 
In the gym volunteers station themselves at the trampoline vollyball net, tumbling mat and punch bag while students rotate from stations every few minutes. 
Volunteers 
Jim Gresser, junior English major, talks about the importance of getting outside yourself. "At school," he says, "it's always your paper, your exam, your grade. It's essential that you do something that involves yourself with others, do something active with someone else." 
Junior Pat Roney, like a few other Logan volunteers, has a mentally retarded relative. "A lot of times the interaction was strange. I came here to find out what I really felt--what it's like." 
Pre-med freshman Mary Letourneau says, "I didn't want to come out of a whole year without giving of myself and time." 
What do the volunteers feel they give the students? 
"Companionship," responds Maureen O'Neill, an enthusiastic freshman planning a special education career. Gresser agrees and points out that the volunteers receives from the students also. "You're their friend and if you approach them as a friend who doesn't consider them odd "or deficient, but as human beings, adds to their dignity and in turn adds to your own life," he said. 
Their response," he continues "is a little more simple but just ~s genuine as any kind of response you can get from another person." 
Bartosik emphasizes that "you begin to appreciate simple things. Simple things in life are the things that make them (the students) happy. They never complain that there's not enough of this or that." 
It's about II:15 when guitarists Adrenne Coffin and Gresser gather the group around th~1 in the gym 
TONIGHT! 
AT 
LOUIE'S 
744 N. NOTRE DAME 
BUCKET NIGHT! 
! ... LOUIE'S SALUTES THE FIGHTING IRISH 
8:30pm til ??? 
BUCKET OF BEER! ! 
75~ 
COME AND HELP CELEBRATE
PRIZES 
A PERFECT SEASON 
Want to do something 
worthwhile for yourself? 
If you have at least two years left at Notre Dame you should investigate the Army ROTC Program on campus. 
There are openings for enlisted veterans who have the additional opportunity to apply for a one year !ull tuition scholarship. Veterans may opt for ett.her a 3 month or a 2 year active duty commttment after commissioning. 
Non-veterans interested in earning an officer's commission should inquire about the Two-Year Program. Individuals in this program are eligible for two and for one-year scholarships. 
If you desire further information, visit the Army ROTC office on campus or call 6264. 
AnnyRarc 

to play a few tunes --Rock My Soul, Pearly Shells, Row, Row, Row our Boat. 
Long steps to the center after the music to conclude the session. "You did great today. I've got terrible news for you though--we won't be having it next week. Everybody have a great Thanksgiving and dont eat too much turkey." 
There's one more thing about Logan Center, Long says. "You learn to love, to be open and spontaneous. Working here has taught me more than anything else during my four years at Notre Dame." 
CLASSIFIED RDS 
NOTICES 
S'udents form the Southwest: Lets help each other get home for XmasXmas. If you need a ride .>r have a car, call 7833. 
FFrom Cleveland or Detroit and looking for a ride to the Sugar B<JWI? Call Dan at 282­1568. 
Kill ugly radio. Volunteers needed !o help bring progressive rock back to WRBR. C<Jme to Pandora's 602 
n. st. louis, and sign up Organization meeting to be announced. People to petition, rap, put up posters, money too. 
California Club; check in at 'ravel ag~ncy to see if you were .me •he first 40 to sign up or if you desire a refund, as soon as possible La ct1arter +SF group rate canceled. La group rate TWA still availbe. 
LONDON SHOW TOUR: March 9-17 1974. $424. from SB includes air, accomadations, 'ix. $100 deposit due Feb 1. Call Sister Jean Kiene 284-4516. 
M·>M•Jrrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1 per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. 11:15­
12:15 M<Jn. Fri. 
go' books you dont want?come 'o pandora's fro 2:30 -3:30 and we'll buy them paperbacks and 'extbooks. 602 n' st. louis. 
Have your bike winterized. Will not rust evenif left out all win!er. Call 272-8697. 
Rides from Indy or Louisville '•J New Orleans $50. Leave 12­28 return Jan 1 call {317) 257­0628. 
Rides from Chicago, Indy or L<>uisville to New Orleans $50 Leave Dec.28, return Janl. Call {317) 251-4402' 
Having ttouble finding a hotel room in New Orleans for the Sugar B<JWI? Problem solved­
call  Ct1ris  272-9595  for  an  
comfirmed  reservation  at  
H.Jtel  Roosevelt.  

L•Jgan Volunteers: Last Sat. rec •lf semester. If you cant 
make  it  please  contact  
someone  who  going  for  info  
abour Xmas party.  

Free folk concert in Flanners America Friday 7:30-1:30. 
Important meeting of Nd ski racers Ti1Urs Dec. 6 7 pm Room' 1-C La Fortune. 
Peregrin Took and Meriadoc Brandybuck, sousins of Frodo and Sam Grdmgee his servant, representing !he Hobbits. 
Legolas Greenleaf and Grim'! Gloin's son, with a friendship greater '11an any between Elf and SDwarf. 
LOST AND FOUND 
L,Jst cloas ring '75 lt. blue stone, name Mike Dener inside . Reward. No questions asked. 1470 
L•JSI set of keys on Lovebug. Call 1409. 
Lost government and Pt1ilospphy notebooks in library. Reward. no questions asked. Am doomed without tl1em. Jim 1814. 
Found black frame glasses outside Dillon. Call 1272. 
PERSONALS 
Ex-Farleyites: come to the Christmas Talent show Friday at 7:30 in the Farley Hall Chapel. Featurning Pop F_arley and the Dem Poem 
WANTED 
I will be disowned unless 1 come up with 2 sugar bowl tix. Please help me. Call 7835. 
Give a former domer a break. He's in law school she's in grad school in St. Louis. They need 2 sugar !ix. 4712 or 8472. 
H.Jckey shinguards + helmet. Cal Joe 1416. 
Need Sugar !ix. No fair offers rejected. Call 3157. 
Need 2 adjacent sugar bowl tix. $$. Ken 3797. 
Will return from North NJ on 7 Jan. Need riders call Leo 232­2721. 
Need riders from Evansville , Ind. to Sugar Bowl Call Janet 4163. 
Need one or two tix to Sugar B<lWI. Call 6716. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to Cleveland can leave Wed. Dec 19 call greg 7865. 
Need ride Dec. 27 from Erie Pa. to Chicago area. Share$$' Call Phil 1023. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh Dec. 
21. Call Bob 3451. 
Need ride Champaign, Ill leave late afternoon Dec. 20, or Dec. 
21. Share $$. Call Jim 1409. 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per. sonalized service. Catalog. PMP co. Box 444 Gaithersburg, Md. 20760. 
BANKRUPTCY SALE: plastic ski boots, 1 yr. old, exs:ellent conditon. Must sell, $35. Set of Wilson clubswith new bag. 
! ! ~.?. Lund skis resurfaced 
•'Ver summer. With bindings. $45. Call Knute. 233-3945. 
IMPORTED MERCURY WATCHES 1-17 jewels 3 styles, perpetual calendar, guaren­'eed, $13.50-$15. Call Frank 3119. 
Selling out to get married. Best ,Jffer .m: max reg. trig., red shag, 9 x 12, chest of drawers, chair, bookshelves. Call Mike 8183. 
Stereo turntable 8 track, speakers, receiver. Used 1 semester. 1067. 
10 speed bike for slae. Cheap. Asking $50. John 8549. 
for some of the best christmas gifts in town, at the best prices in town come by pandora's 602 
n. st. louis tom 10 to 7 everyday. 
Turquise jewelry for Xmas gifts. reasonable. drop by 209 Pangbornor call 8373. 
Hart javelins Market Rotaomat, simplex. toe, anti­friction plate boots. 291-6933. 
Mini refrigerator excellent condition. Best offer. Call 232­6798 alter 6. 
FOR RENT 
4 BR house, recreation room, study, fireplace, wall to wall carpet, just rennovated. completely furnished. Jan semster or immediate oc­cupation. AI Bresser. 289-2461. 
1 BR apt. near N D. Furnished nickely. rate quite reasonable. 
Call after 6. Mrs. Kenelly 233­4487. 
-

12 
the observer 
ND set for Northwestern's Winter 
by Sam Yanr.ucci 
Coach Richard "Digger" Phelps and his Fighting Irish, coming off a thrilling 76-72 overtime victory over arch-Big Ten rival Ohio State, travel to Northwestern's McGaw Hall tonight in search of their third consecutive victory without a defeat. 
In just their first two games--the 112-69 thrashing of Valparaiso and l\londay night's come-from-behind win at Ohio State--the Irish have equalled their best record for the r.10nth of December, two wins, since "Digger" brought his magic !o South Bend. 
Yet the young ND cagers can ill afford to rest on these opening successes for just as Notre Dame is experiencing "Digger,'.' Nor­rhwestern basketball program is being "Winterized." 
"Winterization" can best be 
described as winning, and the man 
applying it to Northwestern's 
faltering cage fortunes is new head 
coach Tex Wintet. If anyone is to 
revitalize the Wildcats, Winter 
certainly has credentials to in­
dicate that he is the one to do it. 
He brings to Evanston a reputation as one of the nation's most successful coaches. His 20 year coaching record (at Marq~ette, Kansas State, and Washmgton) of 333-176 ranks him 
among the top ten active coaches in career victories and winning percentage. 
His job at Northwestern will not be an easy one. During the past three seasons the Wildcats have managed only 17 wins including only 5 last year. 
But "Winterization" seems to 
have caught hold of the current Wildcat basketball teams; despite the fact that 6-10 pivotman Jim Wallace is ineligible this season, they are unbeaten after their first two games having stunned Rollins 
College  and  always  tough  Ohio  
University.  
Leading  the  Wildcats  to  these  

initial wins has been junior for­ward Willie Williams, who com­bines good size (6-6) with tremendous quickness. Williams is joined by last year's leading rebounder, Bryon Ashbaugh (6-8) and two year letterman Joe Otis (6­5 l to form a better-than-average front line. 
However, last season's high scoring backcourt duo is graduated so the ball handling chores this year have fallen on senior Kevin Kachan and high­jumping soph Tim Teasley. 
Winter has promised Nor­thwestern fans an exciting brand of basketball. "Offensively, we'll be a quick hitting team that relies on team strength and unity rather than individual performances. I like fast break basketball. Defensively," he adds, "we'll play aggresive man-to-man." 
Coach Phelps will counter Winter's Wildcats with a front line consisting of the ever-dependable John Schumate, who is at his familiar spot of leading the Irish in scoring (20 ppg) and rebounding 
(11.5 rpg), brutal Adrian Dantley (14 ppg, 9.5 rbg) and Gary Novak (6 ppg, 5rbg) along with a back­court of Gary Brokaw 05.5 ppg) and Dwight "Ice Man" Clay 03.0 ppgl. 
In addition Phelps can call on Billy Paterno, Peter Crotty, or any of the six remaining young 

"Goose" Novak along with the rest of his Irish cohorts will be on the road this evening against a 
newly "Winterized" Northwestern squad. reserves to effectively spell his starting five. M t 

As Digger explains, "We're after a .rnen .meet Detroit 


Vic Dorr -=============================================================================================================================================·=·=·=·=========;=;============================================:========================================================================================================= 
The Irish Eye 
=;=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·==========================================================================================================================================================:====·=======·=·===·=·===:===:::::===================;=;==========================================================Horseleathers 
an NCAA bid and the younger players will have to help. Maybe by Rich Odioso it 'II cost us sometime during the 
Encouraged by some gritty
season but the experience they performances on a swing through gain should pay off for us in the Upper New York State last week,long run." 
coach Fred Pechek's Notre Dame And the Irish will be looking for wrestling team once again takestheir third "pay off" of the season to the road for a pair oftonight a Northwestern. Tip-off for engagements this week.
the game is slated for 9:05 (South The wrestlers, now 1-1 in dualBend Time). 
meets, move to Detroit tonight 

There are, scattered across the length and breadth of this country, football fans and football figures who do not like Notre Dame. 
Most of those fans and figures have what they feel are good reasons for their dislike. Rubin Carter and Tony Christiani, for instance. They don't like Notre Dame because of what happened in the Orange Bowl last Saturday night, and they said so publicly-in the next day's Miami Herald. 
"Alabama," they said, "should beat Notre Dame in the Sugar Bowl. They have more outside speed than Notre Dame does, and they took the fight to us more in their game than Notre Dame did tonight. Besides,' they continued, "Notre Dame did not beat the same team that played Texas and Oklahoma. We were a hurt and physically tired football team tonight." 
The two went on to imply that, had Notre Dame and Miami collided earlier in the season, things might have turned out differently. 
What can you say? If you're Tom Clements, you observe, wearily, that "we can't win in Miami. The last time we came down here we got beaten in the Orange Bowl game, and this time we get bad press." 
And the Irish did get their share of bad press, much of it from Edwin Pope, the sports editor of the Herald. Pope, who authored the pre-game outlook on Nebraska in last year's Orange Bowl program, observed in his Sunday column that the "ND defense is no social climber." He was upset, apparently, that Irish coach Ara Parseghian had left his first-line defense in for more than three quarters of the football game and, again, said so publicly. 
"Surely," he commented, "Ara didn't do that just to impress the Orange Bowl crowd." And Pope, then, went on to rebuke the Notre Dame coach for trying to atone for last year's Orange Bowl fiasco against the wrong team--while ignoring the fact that Miami seemed hopelessly beaten in last year's game in South Bend before coming within a missed field goal of a 20-20 tie. 
What can you say? If you're Ara Parseghian, you say that "last year we thought we had the game put away, until they came back for two touchdowns in the fourth period. I was going to make quite certain that that didn't happen again tonight." Particularly, he might have added, with a 10-0-o season hanging in the balance. 
And if you're Dan Morrin, you say that "Ara can't get a break. If we don't win by much, people say 'hey, they're not that good.' If we win by a lot, they accuse us of running Up' the score." 
But Rubin Carter, Tony Christiani, and Edwin Pope all have what might pass as legitimate reasons for disliking Notre Dame. Their reasons are that their loyalties lie elsewhere. Gentlemen like Mr. Bill Good of Fayetteville, Arl., also dislikes Notre Dame. But the reasoning of such gentlemen is not so clear. 
In an 18-inch letter written to one of last week's issues of the Arkansas Gazette, Mr. Good stated his opposition to Notre Dame's number-four national ranking. 
"Admittedly," he said, "anything can happen in one game, as has often been pointed out. It did in the ND-USC game. Now, Notre Dame tub­thumpers, Chris Schenkel (Chris Schenkel?) especially, are saying that the Sugar Bowl game will be for the national championship. Tom­myrot!" 
"Even if Notre Dame had lost to USC they would have USC in first place and ND in fourth and thus have the Sugar Bowl for the "National Championship." (Mr. Good is suggesting, presumably, that Notre Dame would play USC in the Sugar Bowl. It is a fascinating suggestion, and undoubtedly the Rose Bowl committee would find it even more so.) 
"Without any shadow of a doubt," he continues, the UPI and AP polls are NO-oriented. The scores and comparisons show this clearly. (Yes, they do. Comparisons show that Notre Dame, ranked third in AP, is 10-o-o and is ranked behind Oklahoma, who is 1o-o-1. In the UPI poll, the Irish are still fourth, and are behind the Sooners and Ohio State, also 10-0-1. And it goes without saying, to continue the comparison, that the only team Oklahoma could not defeat was Southern Cal.) 
"Now," frets Mr. Good, "if ND 'lucks out' against Alabama would they be ranked Number One nationally, over such as Michigan and Ohio State and Oklahoma? Horsefea thers!" (Indeed, a horrifying thought. There is no logic at all to the suggestion that an unbeaten team which topples the top-ranked team should have legitimate claim to the deserted throne.) 
But Mr. Good has only just begun. "These teams," he says, "from their records and schedules, could take Notre Dame: Penn State, Houston, 
N.C. State, USC (Just one minute. Isn't this something of a dead issue?), Ohio State, Oklahoma, Michigan, Kansas, LSU, Minnesota, UCLA, Ole Miss, and doubtless there are others.'' 
Now, having settled the issue of just how good the Irish are, Mr. Good turns Notre Dame's recruiting program. "Every parochial high school coach in the nation is a recruiter for Notre Dame. I know this to be a fact. Ifany of these coaches don't do this he is a rarity. Who else has this kind of recruiting organization?" 
<A good question, but some of these parochial high school coaches should get their priorities straight. Like the coach at Bishop Amat High in West Covina, Calif., who tutored Pat Haden and J.K. McKay, and the coach at St. Joseph's High in South Euclid, Ohio, who taught Bo Bobrowski. Who do those guys think they're working for, anyway?) 
"You probably suspect," understates Mr. Good, "that I am anti-Notre Dame ( No! Never!). I am. Why? Because I have seen them play so many times. They are favored by the officials, home or away, and they are favored by the polls regardless-in spite of common sense com­parisons." 
Officiating, polls, and common sense comparisons aside, Mr. Good's final bit of reasoning is something to behold. Saying he dislikes Notre Dame because he has seen the Irish play so often is like saying he dislikes the sun because he has seen it shine so often. 
That sort of reasoning may be amusing, but it's a disturbing sort of amusement. For that sort of reasoning, and that sort of dislike, is all too typical of certain regions of the country. And it's a form of reasoning and a form of dislike which the Irish would do well to beware of between now and January 2. 
And what can you say to someone like Mr. Bill Good? Unfortunately, nothing. 

where they will help Wayne State open their dual season. Despite having only three letter-men 1·eturning, Wayne State coach Ed Johnson believes his team can improve on last year's 3-12-1 record. The main reason for his optimism is the presence of three 
talented transfers and several fine­looking freshman prospects. 
Saturday afternoon Notre Dame moves to Valparaiso where they will grapple with Evansville in addition to the host Crusaders. Last season the Irish routed Evansville 47-4 in a dual meet, but fell to Valparaiso 24-19. The Irish return home Tuesday, December 11 against St. Joseph's of Indiana and then host Wabash on Friday the 14th. 
Notre Dame opened their season at home on November 27 with an overwhelming 45-9 triumph over Chicago State. Six Irish wrestlers scored pins including 167-pounder John Dowd who leveled his op­ponent in just 33 seconds. 
Last weekend in New York, the Irish lost a heartbreaker to Oswego State, 21-20, and placed third in the eight-team Rochester Invitational. Against Oswego, the Irish I railed 10-o after the first top matches but battled back to nearly pull out the match. Pins by fresh­man Chip Habig at 177 and co­captain AI Rocek at heavyweight highlighted the Notre Dame comeback bid. 
In the Rochester Tournament, freshman Dan Heffernan <Wor­thington, Ohio) battled his way into the finals at 126 to take second place. Dave Boyer at 142, Fritz Bruening at 150, and Rocek were other Irish who were successful as each took home a third-place prize. 
Rocek's record is now 5-l in­cluding four pins. The senior from Omaha now has 40 career vic­tories, just 10 shy of the Notre Dame record held by Ken Ryan. Boyer is 4-1-1 while powerful fresh­man Chip Habig is 4-2 with all his triumphs on pins. 
Boxing meeting 

All novice boxers and all those interested in participating in this year's Bengal Bouts to be held on March 3, 5, and 7 should attend the Boxing Club meeting on Friday afternoonDecember 7 at 4:30. The meeting will take place in the boxing room located right next to the hockey rink in the north dome of the ACC. Anyone unable to attend should contact Pat McGrath at 234-8052. 






