On The Inside 
ROTC updates itself ... page 3 Collegiate seminar expands ... page 5 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 52 Thursday, November 29, 1973 
0-C possibility for women brings mixed reactions 
by Jim Donathen Staff Reporter 
"I think it's fair to say that men and women will face the same situation as far as off campus living goes next year " said Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the prov~st, who handles women housing. "The situation is different than last year. We took two large halls for women and needed to utilize them." 
Possible bed shortage 
The university hopes to admit another 400 freshman girls for the 1974-75 academic year. Despite the loss of 115 graduating senior women and the addition of some two hundred beds in Lyons Hall, some Notre Dame co­eds will have to live off campus. 
"Before Christmas, women will receive information on the possibility for moving off campus," said Sr. John Miriam. "In January, we plan to get an idea of how many girls wish to move off," she said. 
The university will then use this information to determine the number of freshman and transfer students that will be accepted for the 1974 fall semester. 
Lottery possible 
If the shortage of beds is not alleviated by girls voluntarily moving off campus, the possibility of a lottery exists: 
The general consensus among women interviewed by the Observer was that co-eds will welcome the opportunity to move off. 
"Girls will be happy to find out that they can move off campus," said Farley Hall president Colletta Miller. Similar sentiments were echoed by the presidents of Breen-Phillips, Badin, and SLC member Jude Bremer. 
"I've seen both sides of the problem," said Kathleen Cekanski, rector of Breen-Phillips. "The problems involved with going co-ed and Notre Dame's emphasis on a residential community are complex. Next year, I'm in favor of it (co-eds living off campus). It's only fair to have a uniform policy for guys and girls." 
Mixed emotions on lottery 
The possibility of a lottery was met with mixed emotions. "A lottery isn't a good idea," said Badin President Laura Dodge. "Parents wouldn't like the idea of having their daughters forced off. They'd rather have them in the security of the dorms." 
B.P. President Diane Merton expressed similar thoughts: "I think it's good to get the same op­portunity as guys. But, I can see where there may be problems .... my parents would be upset if I was forced to move off." 
Although girls have special problems with off­campus living because of security and transportation, Coletta Miller feels that a lottery for males and females is a necessary evil. "We'll feel the same frustration as the guys (about a lottery), but it's fair," she said. 
"It's only fair that we have a lottery if needed," said Jude Bremer. 
She didn't feel that adverse parental reaction to the possibility of a lottery co-eds is reason enough to give femals special privileges. "Some guys' parents reacted vehemntly too last year." 


SU sponsors Sugar Bowl train trip 
by Terry Kenney Staff Reporter 
The Student Union is sponsoring a student train trip to New Orleas for the Sugar Bowl at the price of $130. 
The package includes round trip train transportation from Chicago to New Orleans, food and parties on the train and three nights in the Braniff Place Hotel in downtown New Orleans. The cost of the football ticket in not included in the package. 
The train, christened "The Notre Dame Football Special," will leave Union Station in Chicago at 6:10 
p.m. Friday, December 28 and arrive in New Orleans the following morning at 10:30. 
The train will leave New Orleans on January 1 at 4 p.m. and arrive in Chicago at 9 a.m. January 2. 
The price of the student stay at the Braniff Place Hotel is based on double and triple room occupancy. According to senior Dave McCarthy, who is organizing the trip for the Student Union, the hotel is just five blocks from Bourbon Street. 
McCarthy pointed out that because of the energy crisis the train may be the only means of transportation for students going to New Orleans. 
"Gasoline prices are up and people may not be able to travel on weekends," said McCarthy. "Also many flights are being cut back." 

The package deal will enable students to obtain hotel ac­commodations when many 
students  have  fo~end  most  New  
Orleans  hotels  ~ked  for  New  
Year's, said Mc<luthy.  

"The train wi11 be one of the easiest and fulllleSt ways to get to New Orleans and stay there," McCarthy com~nented. 
Both McCarthy and Student Union Associate Director Pete Bohlander emphasized that the student group would provide a focal point for activity in New Orleans. 
"One advantage of our grou pis that this is where the students will be in New Orleans," said McCarthy. 
Bohlander sees the advantage of the train in econmic terms. "Where else can you spend three days in New Orleans for $130?" 
Tickets for the New Orleans train trip will go on sale Monday at 7 p.m. in the Student Union Ticket Office on the second floor of LaFortune. Students are asked to make a deposit at time of pur­chase. 
The number of tickets available is tentatively limited to 100. However, McCarthy pointed out that if student response is large, the number can be increased. 
Plans announced for Senior trip to Miami 
The schedule for the Senior Trip 
was  announced  yesterday  by  
Charles Morrison.  
At  1 p.m.  the  bus  leaves  the  

Circle for Chicago and at 4 p.m. flight to Miami (non-stop). The 60 seniors will check into the Twelve Caesars Hotel and attend a party Thursday night at the hotel. 
Friday morning the students can go to the beach or to Disney World. Another party is scheduled for that night which will be highlighted by an unlimited supply of beer. 

Students can attend the beach again Saturday afternoon where there will be a pep rally. The students will be bussed to the game Saturday night and to the victory party afterwards. 
A bus will leave Miami for the airport in Ft. Lauderdale at noon Sunday. The plane will arrive in Chicago at 4 p.m. A bus will transport the students A bus will transport the students back to South Bend at 7 o.m. 
The plan flight will not be af­fected by the current fuel shortage. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIJIIJIIJIIIIIIIIIJIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
The SLC will meet today at 
• I
4:30 ID the CCE 
see editorial ... page 4 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIHIIIIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIIIH-IIIlMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIFIIN 
Thursday, November 29.,.1973'
th·e, obse·rver 
warld 

briefs 

Washington-The Senate voted Wednesday to broaden 
Medicare  coverage  to  pay  most  of  the  cost  of  
prescription drugs f or  16  common  diseases  of  the  
elderly.  

The proposal was attached by a 77-11 vote to a bill to increase Social Security benefits by 7 per cent upon enactment and by an additional 4 per cent in June, 1974. Medicare government health insurance for the elderly now pays about 41 per cent of the medical costs of 20 million persons over 65. 
Meantime, House leaders. agreed Wednesday to postpone until next year legislation to guarantee the pension rights of millions of American workers. 
Washington--The House Rules Committee voted Wednesday to reject Senate legislation that would finance presidential and congressional campaigns fromthe federal treasury and outlaw private con­tributions. 
The Senate's Watergate-inspired campaig~·reform provisions were attached to a bill increasing the ceiling on the public debt. 
United Nations-Arab world leaders warned Israel Wednesday there can be no Middle East peace until Jerusalem and all othe occupied Arab territories have been recovered and the rights of the Palestinian people restored. They also pledged continued use of Arab oil as a political weapon to attain their ends. 
Israel already has made it known the future of Jerusalem is not negotiable. 
The ultimatum came in a final declaration from 16 Arab chiefs of state at the conclusion of a three-day meeting in Algiers to coordinate strategy before the proposed Middle East peace conference in Geneva next month. The.Arab leaders also decided to classify their oil customers into national which are friendly, neutral or hostile to the Arabs and to supply or deny them energy according to which list they go on. 

an campus taday 
10:00 a.m.-4: 00 p.m.-red cross blood drive, stepan center, admission: 1 pint blood. 
1:30 p.m.-films, "adventures of robin hood" and "the lone ranger", carroll hall, madeleva, admission: 75 cents. 
6:30 p.m.-meeting, psychology society, room 217, psychology bldg. 
8:00 
p.m.-lecture, "strategies in civil rights, room 101, law school. 

8:00 
p.m.-lecture, "aggression and violence", library lounge. 

8:00 
and 10:00 p.m.-film, "the trojan women", engineering aud., admission: $1.00. 



The Observer is published daily
SMC math department during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions

announces new option 
Sister Miriam Patrick, C.S.C., chairman, Saint Mary's mathematics department, has announced a new applied math option for math majors, effective next semester. 
In making the announcement, Sister stated, "The plan of the mathematics department is gradually to braden the base of our computer-related courses, the first step of which is the applied math option." 
Dr. Peter D. Smith, assistant professor of mathematics, further explained the phiosophy behind this new applied math option. "The main thrust of such a program will be to teach students to identify a problem, develop the math model to deal with the problem, arlalyze the model with new techniques developed in the last twenty years to handle quantified data in economic and sociological fields, and determine what data must be collected to test the model and solve the problem. The training will make our graduates very adaptable." 
As has been reported by the College's Career Planning and Placement Office, business recruiters are vigorously seeking women math majors due to the increasing number of jobs for statisticians, systems analysts, research analysts, and related occupations. 
This new program will require twenty-five upper division hours in math and will replace only three of the present courses for a pure math degree. Juniors presently majoring in math may complete the option if they have the proper prerequisites. 
Fans charmed 
LUSAKA (UPI) -Zambian soccer fans watching the Zambia-Zaire World Cup match halted the game briefly Sunday by rushing the Zaire goalie because he had strung charms in the goal. 
The fans charged onto the field early in the second half in an attempt to remove the charms, but police pushed them back into the stands. Zaire won the match 2-0. 
may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The
Interested students should 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame,
contact the mathematics depart­
Indiana 46556. Second class 
ment at Saint Mary's College, 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 4022. 
Room 213, Madeleva, telephone 
CLUBS, SECTIONS, ROOMMATES, HALLS 
Volunteers to give Christmas parties for Head Start children 
CALL 7308 STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
~~~ ~ 




~~~~~\y~ 
~~ VISIT CHR MASTER STYLISTS 
Expert hair care for men 
For a shorttime only, $1 off on any complete styling job 
CHR MASTER STYLISTS 
Ca II 255-8600 TOWN & COUNTRY MINIMALL for appointment 
W en your parents are in town, have hem stay in South Bend's NEWEST Hotel 
:Ro!lal!Inn' 
316 S. Sl Joseph Reservatiou: (219) 212-2511 
WEEKEND SPECIALS AVAILABLE 
For dining, visit our 
JO~L Y KING RESTAURANT 
nd afterwards hit the "in spot" in town 
THE PURPLE JESTER DISCOTHEQUE LOUNGE. 
Dancing under psychedelic lights 0 en lla.m.-2a.m. M 

Shakespeare Film Series 
presents 
Franco Zefferelli's 




ROMEO & JULIET 

4pm
Monday, 
7pm


Dec. 3 
lOpm 
Engineering Auditorium Come Early FREEl 
v•· 
• , ••• 4 _...., ~ •••••• ••...J ,.......,. 


the observef' 
3 

Girls admitted to ROTC program 
by Howard Wood Staff Reporter 

Since the student demon­strations in the late Sixties, the Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) has made two significant changes to improve and update their program. ROTC has started admitting women and revisingtheir curriculum and faculty tomeet university academic standards. 
For the first time women have been allowed inthe ROTC program since military ·instruction. was organized in colleges. Air Force ROTC opened their doors to women in 1970, and the Navy and Army followed with trial programs at selected universities in 1972. 
Notre Dame's program has 12 girls enrolled: eight in Air Force, three in Navy, and one in Army. Candy Kelly, senior government major, will be the first woman to be commissioned an offic~r from the NROTC program, and the first from any ROTC at Notre Dame. 
Kelly and the eleven other 
women joined ROTC primarily for 
the same reasons as men. They 
want a secure job with good pay. 
"I wanted the assured job· after 
graduation and the management 
training that it offers," said Kelly. 
As an officer, I start a job with 
authority and responsibility, that 
has equal payment and equal. 
employment for men and women." 
Kelly, whose father is a Navy 
captain, has experienced a 
military life and enjoyed it. She 
likes the travel and adventure 
associated with the Navy, but says 
it is too early to decide if it will be 
her career. 
Capt. William McLean, USN 
stated, "Girls join NROTCfor two 
reasons. They are interested in 
Naval matters (Kelly is from a 
Navy family and another girl is 
majoring in oceanography). And 
more significantly, the outstanding 
employment and good pay." 
Col. Joseph Falvey and Col. 
Alvin Gendren of AROTC agree the 
military offers a good career for 
women. Falvey noted, "There is 


Hesburgh coauthors book 
no differentiation for promotionbecause of sex." 
Gendren added, "Women of­

ficer's salary start at $9000 a year, 
the same as men. Most women 
with degrees can not find jobs that 
pay as well and offering the same 
responsibilitiy as an officer." 
Women will not be discriminated 

in pay or promotion but are 
restricted from certain combat 
positions. According to law women 
cannot hold combat positions. In 
the Air Force women may not be 
navigators, pilots, missile launch 
officers or in weapon disposals. All 
other positions including 
armament, intelligence, 
mechanics and maintenance are 
open to them . 
The Army also prohibits women from serving in the combat fields­armor, infantry, and field ar­tillery. 
lu the Navy they cannot be assigned to combat ships or air­craft. They can be assigned to auxiliary ships and some women are going through pilot training to fly transports, helicopters and other non combat aircraft. 
Since women cannot be pilots, AFROTC does not offer four year scholarships to them. The AFROTC requires that all scholarship winners must meet the requirements necessary for a pilot, which until the laws change, can only be men. Women, as non­flyers, can get two or three year scholarships. 
Although both the Army and Navy ROTC units give four year scholarships to a limited number of outstanding high school girls, AFROTC has the most women of the three branches: seven fresh­men and one sophomore. 
Responding to why they picked 
Air Force and not Army or Navy, 
most of these girls were attracted 
to the excitement of flying. Kathy 
Ohora, freshmen, said she was 
influenced by her brother in the Air 
Force, but more importantly, "I 
wanted to learn to be a pilot despite 
the ruling against women." 
Despite the laws against women 
pilots and four year scholarships, 
AFROTC commissioned more than 
100 women last year at various 
universities. 
special treatment. While in 
uniform, girls may wear no 
jewelry, a minimum of make-up 
and hair can not be worn below the 
shoulders. They are subject to the 
same discipline and rules as the 
men in the program. 
The girls are highly regarded by 
the three commanding officers and 
well accepted by the cadets. There 
is no differentiation as they march 
together, take same courses and 
most pass the physical fitness test. 
Revision of curriculum and faculty 
The second major change in ROTC is the improvement in curriculum and faculty. This revision is designed to make the courses more acceptable to the students and faculty while still fulfilling the ROTC requirements. 
Resulting from anti-ROTC movements in the late nineteen sixties, ROTC has shifted from military training toward an academic approach. Cadets now study national defense policies, radar and sonar concepts instead 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh is one of three university presidents coauthoring "Patterns for Lifelong Learning," a newly published book which urges colleges and universities to take the lead in making education a lifelong process. 
Dr. Paul A. Miller, president of Rochester (N.Y.) Institute of Technology, and Dr. Clifton R. Wharton, Jr., president of Michigan State University, are the other authors. 
The book, which results from research supported by the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, proposes a philosophical basis for society's 
RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days}. 
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 !213} 477-8474 or 477-5493 Our research material Is sold for rese3rch assistance only. 

establishment of lifelong education and provides concrete recom­
mendations for action. 
Among the strategies suggested for expanding higher education's role in continuing education are establishing curriculums which teach students to be self-learners and setting up student oriented programs. The· book also presents new and broader concepts of teaching and education and revised institutional orientations toward faculty. 
The book is published by Jossey­Bass, Inc., San Francisco, Calif. 
The Academic Commission Presents 

THE TROJAN WOMEN 


TONIGHT AND FRIDAY ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
Admission $1.00 
or wea.,.ons system. power, role of the · military in 
The AFROTC is concentrating national defense policies, and on the historical aspects of air 
(continued on page 5) 
r-----~--~------~----~~-----------­


DERSHEM MOTORS 
special 

'**********************We 12 *
~ now offer a month guarantee on all 'cars. lf. 
located across from Louie's Ph. 233-5145 F Avai 
*******~****~*..****** 


1
, 
~ 
1 

The 12 girls in ROTC get no 

in their own wayThe Paulists to achieve their mission: are trying to help Christ communicateto meet the the ideas from His mindchallenge to the minds of today's world of all men in city streets For more information about the and suburban homes Paulists, America's first religious on the campus community, send for the PAULIST PAPERS--a new vocation kit ofand in the parish articles, posters and recordings.facing the issues of poverty and peace injustice and war and listening for sounds of love and signs of hope their own talents 415 West 59th St., New York,N.Y.10019  
:·· i?.t'''""1 ''*Ri'1 · · ·: 1 WITH COUPON 1 : FULL EIGIIE TUIE-UP : •: -. ' It I: Snow Recaps1~ -:Jgf~$209 5 i . . $ 2 2 9 5 560-15 1 ANY f. CYL, U. 5. AUTO I (plus F.E.T.) :ADO $4 FOR 6 CYL. CARS.: : ~~6L~~NE~· P7.~~; ;')~0~~~~ :: : CONDENSER, CHECK : :~~~:~cET~~~B~~GEI;~~ : :·······················-(•.• ,DJI!K'~''¥5·"'9·'1., Premium 4 Ply Nylon WITH COUPON FROITEIDaALIIIIEIT r Snow Tires MOST F78-14 Blackwalls start as low as AMERICAN • CARS $1695 (pius F.E.T.)~·5 PARTS EXTRA IF NEEDED ,........................ ' ... •f(i11f,ib!¥3.iitp.pf· .. ~ WITH COUPON • 20% OFF BRAKE RELIIIIG 1. I ~~;~;~ ~~c : on all tail pipes,FOREIGN CARS: : exhaust pipes, and$2995 1.... mufflers. INCLUDES FULL . INSPECTION : FLUID AND CLEAN. : ,,..... ·······-·:·· Discount Tire Service SHOCK SALE 50595 U.S. 31 North S444 272-1023 PUS IISTIWTIII OPEN DAILY TIL 6 SATUIM>AY TIL 4  

~-~ ---~---~--------

Dpinian






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lufkus 

Art Ferranti Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief

E.xecufive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Johg Kloos Business Manager Advertising Manager
BUSINESS: .?IJl-7471 

Thursday, November 29, 1973 


BE THERE! 
signing of that petition and result,The Problem: hopefully, in the addition of those four 
It is very important that a great many signatures. students show up at today's meeting of the SLC. (4:30 in the CCE). In many The calendar announcement was maderespects it could be the last chance that possible by the council's vote ofstudents have in their battle against the December 14, 1972 according to Richard new calendar. 
Conklin, University Director of Public Information. That vote was 28 in favorThe question hangs as to what student and 19 opposed. So, if the question can bemobilization at the SLC meeting can recalled in the council, it seems highlypossibly do to change the calendar-a probable that the calendar can bedecision that came from the Academic rejected.
Council. 

A great outpouring of students at the If the members of the council which meeting will show one thing--that overwhelmingly consists of faculty and students really are concerned and in administration members don't reject it, opposition to the new academic calendar. they are being derelict in their duty to the 
The representation of that opinion can students of this university, who--by their serve as a catalyst-the catalyst that is response in a recent poll-are solidly necessary for the Academic Council to against the calendar. And further, Ifthey recall the vote on the calendar and reJect tbis signUicant show of student reconsider it. opinion, they will make it finally clear 
that Notre Dame doesn't give a damn As it occurred in 1972, when the Ad­about its students and what they think. 
ministration once before announced a calendar with a pre-Labor Day start, it The final stumbling block to changing takes the petition of 10 members of the the Calendar is the Provost. And Academic Council to bring the question to changing his mind seems an in­the floor again. There are 6 student surmountable problem. He told student members ofthe board. Presumably, they leaders last week that there is no choice: would all sign the petition. Therefore, the the calendar must begin before Labor signatures of four administration or Day. And, according to Fr. Burtchaell, it faculty members would be needed. It doesn't matter what people say about the would seem that a massive show of new schedule; he says it will stay, a stand disgust over the calendar at the meeting that is incredibly unresponsive, in­today would initiate action toward the sensitive, and tyrannic. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHNIIIHIIIINIIIIIIIIHHHIIIIIIININIIINIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The provost claims that Notre Dame must schedule 72 class days during next fall's semester for accreditation. Yet his proposed calendar only has 71--count 'em, Father--71 days. So much for academic accreditation. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIII...'MIIIIIIII'"IIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111111111111UIIlUIIIUIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIHIItttllllltmnllllllt1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
unique method of compensating: football
The Alternative: weekends. The relaxation and non­
academic activity involved in a footballConsider this: weekend is more than enough of aClasses begin on Wednesday, Sept. 4, psychological break in the routine ofafter registration on the third and run classes during the fall. The springuntil Friday, Nov. 22. Thanksgiving semester, however, still needs some kindbreak begins after classes the 22nd and of vacation to break up the lack ofends at 8 a.m. Monday, Dec. 2. The last comparable activities.
class day is Monday, Dec. 16, with Saturday, Dec. 14, included as a MWF class day. Finals then run from Dec. 17-Think about it. In standing firm, Fr. 
21. Burtchaell is dismissing a survey that states that 89 per cent of the student body 
It's tighter, granted. But compare it to opposes his calendar. But perhaps facing Burtchaell's: 
~ all those students in person may induce him to reconsider.
The announced calendar finishes on Dec. 20; the alternative calendar ends on Dec. 21. The alternative calendar has 70 The SLC meeting is at 4:30p.m. today days-two below the so-called ac­in the Center for Continuing Education. creditation level-but the Burtchaell Go to the meeting and make it known how calendar is also short, by one day. Both you feel. Convince them to use their in­calendars have 9-day breaks, something fluence to get the Academic Council to Burtchaell claimed important in cutting recall the question. It's time to make it down absenteeism. And most clear to the administration that they significantly, the alternative calendar really should give a damn about what has classes beginning after Labor Day. their students think and want. 
As for Fr. Burtchaell's assertion that a -Jerry Lutkus,break is needed between summer and Butch Ward Thanksgiving, Notre Dame has an almost and Joseph Abell 
Education and Course-Choosing 

fred antczak 
In the Spring semester, the English Department is offering a course, under the able direction of Dr. Kline, called "Computer Applications in Linguistic Theory." Reading this, your world probably isn't shaken you probably didn't drop your spoon effectively splattering everyon~ around you with onion ~oup, nor are you likely to speak in awed, hushed tones to the bewildered chap next to you. It probably doen't seem to affect your life at all. 
But, you know, the fact that it's being offered means that someone sees reasons to think that you're wrong about that. Someone sees the world to be put together in a way such that "Computer Applications in Linguistic Theory" is meaningful enough to the way life runs that it should be studied. That sounds pretty strange, sounds like it would be a difficult thing to convince you of. But stranger things have been suggested. Imagine a fellow grabbing you by the lapels (or whatever) and feverishly trying to convince you of your great need to learn of "The Status of Imagination in Bacon'sDediictiveMethod" or perhaps "The Digamma in the Development of Classical Greek." 
Why DOES the College think that "Computer Applications in Linguistic Theory" is important? How does the computer help you in understanding, say, a poem? Well, it enables you to more completely and effectively examine the structure of the poem, the patterns and orchestration of rhyme, rhythm, placement of caesura, and all sorts of crucial devices the poet is using to tell you something, to shade and inflect meaning, and even simply to make the poem flow in a pleasing way. A poem, after all, is a work of art whose medium is words, and it makes as much sense to see how words are used in a poem as to examine how a sculptor has inflected and flourished his marble. 
So I disagree with you, too; such analysis is worth your doing, unless you sincerely deny that the activity of understanding poetry is worth doing. 
But I can't help being distressed at the idea that might move some people to take this kind of course. The risk is that their single goal might be efficiency, might be the desire to somehow escape the really hard work of coming to grips with a poem, to struggle with it so that you don't miss anything. The computer could allow us to ab­solutelyavoid such work. But I suggest that this is Ute wrong way to think about any kind of activity that we pursue. It is a notion that besets every sort of mental activity today, trying to make it "more businesslike," 'MORE PROFESSIONAL." Thinking threatens to become--in the social sciences, in Philosophy, and, obviously, in Literature--merely an activity instrumental towards a further end. 
I want to say a possibly surprising thing about education. The highest goal of education is not that finished product in itself, not the 'A' paper or '7' quiz, but the learning how to enjoy doing that activity, and especially delighting in doing it welL The 'A' grade isn't the most rewarding thing you can get out of a course. Rather, you're better off and can enjoy a bigger part of your life if you learn to master new kinds of activity; French, High-Jumping, Symbolic Logic, the Guitar, Geometry, or Literary Criticism. 
Take another example, wildly different in nature: sex. There are two ways of looking at and appreciating sex: 1) as merely a means to a intended product (which would be the set of pleasurable responses you enjoy most); or 2) as an activity worth doing in itself, regardless of "success" in those material terms. Well, if sex is only a good thing because it is a means to pleasure, then masturbation is the highest form of sex. Mter all, YOU know best what responses you want. But it does seem to most of us that sex-with-another is a better kind of sex, is more worthy of doing. 
I suggest that we suffer from such masturbatory attitudes when we choose courses in terms or work load and grading policy rather than considering the quality of activity that the course would teach us to enjoy. From what we know about the most rewarding experiences of living, perhaps we can say that the best and highest (and most desirable) kind of education leads us to find and master activities, which can also be called "ways of living," that are good and rewar­ding in just doing them, whether or not we "succeed." Perhaps the highest human activities are those so interesting and gratifying and vast that one can never definititively "succeed," but rather can participate in and enjoy them more and more exquisitely and ex­pertly. That is, you education ought to help you find as many aspossible of the kinds of activities and ways of living that are en­joyable and good to do. 
I read a friend the first draft of this column. She said it was OK, but she'd like to know what a Digamma was (remember that course the lapel-grabber suggested?). 
Funny she should ask .... 
the observer 
Night Editor: Albert D'Antonio 
Assistant Night Editor: Rick Blower 
Typists: Barb Norcross, John Flanigan, Tom Modglin 
Compugraphic: Tom Wich 
Day Editor: Jack Kelly ~ictures: P.F. Phillips 
Copy Editor: Terry Keeney 
Extra Help: Bill Nickols 
Night Controller: Joe Abell 

the observer 
5 

Freshmen colloquium expands 
The Collegiate Seminar Department's highly successful Senior-Freshman Seminar 181 will be expanded next semester to allow more freshmen to benefit from the unique, Senior-taught program, according to its direct, Dr. Robert A. Vacca. 
The one credit humanities course "offers freshmen a chance to work with subjects that do not find their way into the regular curriculum," said Vacca. 
The small-classes use no pre­established syllabus, each class format being largely determined by student feedback. "This semester's colloquium had 16 sections and no two had the same type programs," pointed out senior Ed Gray. 
Senior teacher Mark Bright sees his seminar as a means to provide his class with the "basic facts of 
the ND environment" and to allow his students' opinions and personal philosophies "instead of dogmatism . " 
The different sections' activities this semester included reading from Aristotle, Norman Mailer, Kurt Vonnegut, and Herman Hesse; field trips to Chicago 
museums and ethnic restaurants, meditation and sensitivity sessions, analysis of both rock and classical musics, sociological games, guest speakers such as Fr. James Burtchaell, and Fr. Robert Griffin, and free-form art-projects. 
Senior teacher Terry Gorrell explained, "To go to school and just sit through the mechanics of education is not learning. If you do that and do not open yourself to as many aspects of experience as possible then youwill get nothing out of college." 
The program, however, extends beyond its liberal activities: "There is a human element not available in a lecture hall of 200 

ROTC program updated 
(continued from page 3) 
leadership and management. All technical training and military aspects for all programs are taught in summer camps or after graduation. 
The Army and Navy Depart­ments are substituting some other university courses for their own Departmental courses. The AROTC has substituted a geology course in place of their own course in military map reading. Both Departments transferred their Military History class to the History Dept. to be taught by Dr. Kerby. 
This substitution reduces the number of "extra courses" (i.e., courses taken for course credit but not satisying degree requirements) needed in the ROTC program. 
Gendren and McLean believe tha t their officers are teaching the courses that they are best qualified to teach. They also think that courses officers are not best qualified to instruct should be transferred to other faculty members who are best qualified. 
Falvey opposes the substituting, "Air Force courses are best taught by military officers." 
The military faculty has been upgraded to meet the academic standards of the University. "In 1971, the Army did not have one master's degree among the of­ficers. This yea, all have master's degrees in the discipline they are teachii!g and three are working 
toward a doctorate," stated Gendren. 
McLean and Falvey believe that their staffs are better qualified as assistant professors than past years. All officers in NROTC and AFROTC have at least a masters degree. 
"One of the objections to ROTC by faculty members," commented Gendren, "was that military of­ficers obtained equivalent rank to the civilian faculty without the proper degree. Faculty members needed a masters or better for academic rank as professor or assistant professor. Military of­ficers were obtaining this rank without the necessary degree." 
Vietnam and the Draft 

The Vietnam war had a devastating effect on ROTC. According to a New York Times Survey, the "number of cadets in all three programs has plunged from 212,400 in 1969 to about 75,000 this year. The army took the biggest loss, going from 174,173 at its peak in 1966 to about 38,100 this 
SWEENEY'S SHAMROCK 
sweatshirts 

Last order unti I next fall. 
fall." 
A large portion of this drop is the result of many campuses ending the mandatory two-year ROTC courses for all able-bodied men. This trend was completed by the late sixties. 
Notre Dame never required two years of ROTC for its students. However, the total enrollment in the three branches has decreased since the student unrest in 1969 and the end of the draft last year. In 1965, there were about 700 in AFROTC. Now there are 130. Two years ago, AFROTC had 180 cadets, now there are 112. 
The end of the draft and of the Vietnam war weeded out a large portion of men who joined because a commission as an officer seemed preferable to risking the draft and ending up as a private. 
When the draft had ended last year, 37 sophomore dropped out of the AFROTC. In AFROTC, 24 cadets quit after one year in the program. 
While the numbers in Air Force 
and Army are down, the Navy's 
quota has stabilized near 200 
midshipmen for the past five 
years. NROTC will commission 38 
officers this year. Capt. McLean 
explains the large numbers on the 
fact that the NROTC is a regular 
officer producing program. 80 
percent of the Navy midshipmen 
are on scholarship. AFROTC and 
AROTC train reserve officers 
besides regular officers. 
The three Commanding Officers at Notre Dame believe that the quality of the cadets are better now. They have noticed more motivation and a deep seated in­terested in the programs. They join because they want to and not by outside pressures. 
Scholarships 
There is no outside pressure anymore but there is a great deal of financial motivation to join ROTC. These scholarships are available in four-, three-, and two year basis for men and women. 
Each scholarship pays for tuition, fees, and books. The student receives $100 per month for 10 months of each school year. 
For the academic year 1973-74, ROTC contributes $865,076 in scholarship money to Notre Dame. 
This is more than one-third of all 
Notre Dame scholarship money. 
ROTC is the largest single source 
of scholarships for students. 
The primary reasons that men 
and women are choosing ROTC 
scholarships are threefold: in­
terest in military service, and 
having a good job after graduation 
in an increasingly tight labor 
market, as well as the inflationary 
cost of colleges. 
Future 
During the late nineteen sixties, the cry of R-0-T-C-OFF CAMPUS was heard across many campuses. 
(continued on page 6) 


:!~r=H=e=rlE====A=R=Ir==2=6=====o=x=vs====s=e=F=o=R:E:=:=11\ :~~~! THIS SEMESTER ENDS·-~~l~



Istill time~~~!~:~~;:~. I 
l~~~ ·come to an awareness iii! ~:l: of God in your life ~:~: 
~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:!:!:~:!:~:!:!:!:!:!:~::::::::::::::::::::.!.::::::::::::::~::::::~==~=~:::!:::::::::::::::::~:::::: 
RETREAT • OLD COLLEGE 

TOM STELLA, CSC 
(FRI.) NOV. 30 • (SUN) DEC. 2 
reservation can be made in the campus ministry office {103 Lib) $5 fee--$3 non-refundable deposit 

people," pointed out freshman Dan Hayes. Student Argery Bitchakas agreed, "The seminar helped me to understand other people's values." 
Senior Jim Purvis hoped that his format "prompted self-realization " in his freshmen. One of his students, Sue Fonti, remarked "The seminar helped me to define in my own mind how I stand on different issues and problems." 
"The seminar provides a place where the freshman can discuss with one another, and with the seniors, all the problems that matter to them personally," Vacca commented. "These make-up, I suppose, the core of what we mean by the humanities. 
"The classes p· 'lhasize that which is concrete and specific rather than what is theoretical and abstract," Vacca continued. Classes do things rather than just talk about them. 
Freshmen can enroll in the program by filling in "SEM 181" on their course-selection forms when they pre-register. ' 
Freshmen taking the course this sem~ster will be allowed to sign-up agam on a "space-available" basis. 
Tired of that contemporary look? 

,. 
Then let one of our four expert styIists create a style for your own particular hair needs. The Wind­jammer has it all for 
you. 
Let Sue style your hair. 

Uhe WinJjammer 

All services by appointment -no waiting 
1637 LincolnWay W. 232-6622 
The Performing Arts Series presents .... THE JULLIARD STRING QUARTET 
Wed. Dec.S 8:00pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Admission: $3.50, Students -$2.00 Reservations: 4176; 239 Moreau Hall 


-~-----­
Th!JI"Sda,y, N~y~mber 29,. 197.3 ·

,the:. observer 
.. ~,.,., 
................... -----------·­


ROTC enrollment higher 
(continued /rom page 5) 
But at Notre Dame there was a conservative attitude among the students and faculty compared to man other universities. The Academic Council voted in May, 1969, to maintain ROTC at Notre Dame. 
Trying not to cause any disturbances, ROTC decreased their military presence on campus. 
The University asked for and was 
granted an end of military 
parades, and presidential review 
on campus. 

Those days are over and McLean, Falvey and Gendren -.ueve there is reason for a 
cautious optimism for the 
•
SMC lD 
By RICHARD LERNER 
WASHINGTON (UPI) President Nixon asked Con­gress Wednesday to turn more than one million acres of federally owned desert, wildlife and coastal areas into specially protected national wilderness preserves. 
Nixon proposed 12 sites stretching west from Arkansas to California for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preserva­tion System, created in 1964 to keep unspoiled areas in their natural condition indefinitely. Congress has already designat­ed more than 11 million acres for protection under the law. 
"At a time when our nation is seriously concerned with con­serving our energy resources, it is also important that we protect another treasured na­tional resource -our wilderness areas and the many varieties of plant and animal life which thrive uniquely in wilderness environments," the President said in a message to the House and Senate. 
If added to the wilderness 
~ 






w NO 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 
comeback of ROTC at most universities. They believe the change in curriculum and image are the reasons for the changing attitudes and improved relations among the military and students. 
At the University of California, Los Angeles, for example, the three service programs each reported gains of 20 to 30 per cent in freshman enrollment last fall. Incomplete registration reports so far this year indicate a decline in the number of new cadets for the Army program, while those of the Air Force and Navy have con­tinued to grow. 
Boston University, one of the 13 major campuses whose students 

process of selecting 
co~nmence~nent speaker 
by Judy Rauenhorst Staff Reporter 
Through Senior Class and Faculty nominations, St. Mary's College has begun the process of selecting a 1974 commencement speaker. The top nominees include Helen Hayes, Katherine Hepburn, Margaret Mead, Barbara Walters and Anne Morrow Lindbergh. 
Senior Class President Mary 
Ellen Stumpf explained, "We sent out a newsletter to the seniors and faculty asked them for suggestions for a commencement speaker. After receiving twenty-six dif­ferent names we made up a ballot." ' 
Voting took place at a Senior Class meeting held Monday Oc­tober 29. Each student voted for their first four choices. Stumpf explained that ballots were also distributed to the faculty and administrative team. A total of 168 seniors and 59 members of the 

Nixon asks Congress to turn federal land into preserve 
sysu:ill, the 12 areas would be closed to all motorized tran­sportation, including snow­mobiles, meaning visitors would have to travel by foot, horseback or boat. 
The areas proposed by Nixon were: 
-373,700 acres of desert land in the Joshua Tree National Monument and 10,600 acres of beach and wooded slopes in the PointReyes National Seashore, both in California. 
-533,900 acres in the Big Bend National Park in Texas, described as "some of the finest desert and mountain scenery" in the nation. 
-14,470 acres of "desert uplands" in the Imperial National Wildlife Refuge in Arizona and California to provide a home for wild water fowl. 
-8,100 acres of the Mesa Verde National Park in Colora­do. 
-1,700 acres of forest vegeta­tion and natural swamp in the Mingo National Wildlife Refuge in Missouri. 
-42,400 acres boasting vari-
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty ND-8MC Staff 
$J50 

Thieves' Carnival 
Jean Anouilh's merry masquerade Dec. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
faculty and administrative team voted. 
"The adminis~ration now takes care of contactmg the top can­didates one at a time, until one is available for the May 18th event," said Stumpf. "Helen Hayes has been contacted, but she cannot make it," she added. 
Other people ?n the ballot in­
· eluded Dr. Elizabeth Koontz, Senator How~rd Baker, Ir.m.a Bombeck, Archibald Cox and Billie Jean King. 
Tickets are available for the Armory Party at the Student Union ticket office and the dining halls 

ous desert resources in Sagurao National Monument in Arizona. -21,110 acres of the Bande­lier National Monument in New 
Mexico,  once  the  home  of  
Pueblo  Indians  and  rich  in  
archeological  sites.  

-16,317 acres of the Valen­ri.ne National Wildlife Refuge and 24,502 acres of the Crescent Lake National Wildlife Refuge, both in Nebraska and inhabited by rare birds. 
-346 acres in the Oregon Highlands National Wildlife Refuge. 
-975 acres of forest land in the White River National Wildlife Refuge in Arkansas. 

forced the program to close in 1969, has asked ROTC to come back. 
Harvard president, Derek C. Bok has also started talking about reconsidering his university's expulsion of the program at the height of the 1969 student disorder. 
Amidst all the changing at­titudes toward theROTC program, Capt. McLean pointed out, "Our objective never changes. Our goal is always the same--to provide officers from a broad cross-section of university students across the country. The real change is just doing the same job ebbetter and we are doing this with an improved faculty and an improved curriculum." 




to hear 

With Superex Stereophones, you've got the best seat in Philharmonic Hall. You're in the control room at every recording session. And you can change seats simply by changing the volume. 
Transport yourself to the center of the brass section, or see what it feels like to sit under the cymbals. 
The Superex PEP-79 will carry you there. Accord­ing to Stereo Review,"... though one of the lowest­price electro-static headsets we know of, sounds about as good as the best and most expensive ones we've tested thus far-and that is no small achievement." Write for a complete report. 
You'll have a pair of Superex Stereophones with a 10·22,000 Hz. frequency response, a handsome console that works off any amplifier, and a one year guarantee 
luperexltereophones. Feel what you hear. 
For Free Literature Write: Superex Electronics Corp., Dept. F I, !51 Ludlow St., Yonkers, N.Y. 10705. In Canada, Superior Electronics, Inc., Montreal 
. ' ~ . \
\ . 


th~ observ·e'r: ... _. _..-7 



Campus briefs••• 
Scholarship applications 
now available 
Applications for scholarships and financial aid for the '74-'75 academic year are now available in the financial aid office. Parents Confidential Statements may also be picked up at that location. The application deadline is May 1 and even present holders of financial assistance must reapply each year. 
North Dining Hall to change 
The North Dining Hall plans to remove the partitions dividing B and C lines and D and E lines. The Food Services Advisory Com­mittee would like to ·hear any response to the change from the students. Feedback cards, located in the dining hall, are the best way to voice one's opinions about the food service. 

Fr. Hesburgh 
elected to board presented tonight at 7:~ p.m. in 
the Stapleton Lounge, Samt Mary's by Mr. Norman Michaud,Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, assistant professor of English. Hepresident of Notre Dame will discuss John Hawkes andUniversity and former head of the Gunter Grass.
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, Mr. Michaud's lecture is thehas been elected to the Board of final segment of the series "TheTrustees of the Fund for Peace, 
New 
All airlines trimming flights 
NEW YORK <UPI) -The nation's airlines are trimming scheduled flights and studying possible layoffs of personnel because of severe shortages of jet fuel that will curtail domestic service, a survey showed Wednesday. 
American Airlines announced Wednesday 214 pilots will be laid off in January, following up United Airlines' immediate layoffs of 300 pilots and 650 flight attendants announced a day earlier. United also has canceled 100 daily flights beginning Jan. 7, when Presi­dent Nixon's directive to cut jet fuel consumption by· an addi­tional 15 per cent becomes effective. 
A majority of other airlines already have cut domestic flights or _plan cutbacks in service by the Jan. 7 cutoff date. 
Braniff Airlines said it does not anticipate layoffs of person· nel at this time but will suspend service to Hilo, Hawaii and Atlanta and its planes are cruising at lower speeds. "A reduction of 3.5 per cent is planned in flight hours before now and Jan. 7," a spokesman said. 
Delta Airlines said it has no plans to cut employes even though the carrier has reduced mileage by 7 per cent. Delta is not eliminating specific flights but canceling those which have the lightest passenger load. 
An American Airlines spokes­man said the line is "furlough­ing" 214 of its 3,700 pilots Jan. 2 and has suggested to other personnel that they take early vacations and leaves of absence on a voluntary basis. 
Beginning Sunday, American will cut seven daily round-trip
I, 0 I' • .-...I ,....._ 
according to Nicholas Nyary, Fund President. 
The Fund for Peace, a national non-profit organization, supported by public contributions, sponsors 
projects relating to world peace and justice. Current projects include the Center for Defense Information, the Consortium for World Order Studies, the "In the Public Interest" radio series, and , with the Scientists Institute for Public Information, Scientific Aid to Indochina. 
Walsh welcomes ex-residents 
The residents of Walsh welcome back last year's residents for a Mass, to be held on Sunday, December 2at 10 a.m. in the Walsh chapel. The Mass will be offered by Fr. Andy Ciferni and will be followed by a brunch upstairs in the south dining hall. 
Michaud to lecture tonight 
"The Apocalyptic Landscape: From Affirmation to Disgust" is the title of the lecture to be 
run~ from its schedule, includ­talks of cutbacks or layoffs is ing three between New York premature." A National spokes­and Detroit and one New York­man said in Ocrober the airline to-Chicago flight. Further logged 5 per cent fewer plane schedule cutbacks may be miles than a year earlier and made in January. the same reduction is holding 
National Airlines said "any up for November. 
'The finest in  I (ANf~H(ff -~~6~  
Cantonese  Steaks  
Cuisine at  

Chicken Sea Food Quiet atmosphere 

Moderate Prices' 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
FOR GREAT BUYS TRY 

*MAC'S RECORD RACK* 
2925 Mishawaka Ave. 
next to River Po,rk Theater 
* lp's *needles *special *record 
orders cleaning *tapes e·quipment 

II we don't have it, we'll !let it Just Arrive~J.. Ne"!.. W..~9,. Th~•~ ,Q.og. ,Njght 
ovel: An International Approach" which has been co-sponsored by the modern language and English departments of Saint Mary'sCollege. 



Band CJuditions dates :set 
Auditions for the 1974 University of Notre Dame Concert Band will be held December 5, 6, and 7. Openings are available for all brass, woodwinds, a_nd percussion. Anyone who is interested should pick up audition music in the band office, ground floor of Washington Hall. If there are questions phone band director Robert F. O'Brien, at 7136. 


Zodiac Ball this Friday 
The Zodiac Ball will be held on Friday, November 30 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. at Stepan Center. There will be a $1.50 admission charge at the door, and a $1.00 charge with a college I.D. Music will be by Soul Sound, Incos and Cool People. 
For further information call Lionel Phillips of the Society of Ujamma at 28:1-1866. 
Psychology meetin~g tonight 
The Psychology Society will meet tonight at. 6:30 in room 217 of the Pschology building to sign up members and answer questions. 

The Psychology Socie ty is conducting a membership drive for all students interested in JOimng an undergraduate psychology organization. The society is open to anyone with an interest in psychology including majors. Non-majors are welcomed and encuraged to join. 
Society Coordinator Mike Robison hopes to provide in­formation on career opportunities, course information, degree requirement information, possible undergraduate representation to faculty and psychology lectures and demonstrations. T-shirts and society parties are also in the works. 

Observer Christmas Party 
for All Observer People 
Holy Cross Halfway House 

See editors or dept. heads for tickets and more information. 
want everyone there 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 
Students from New Mexico and the Southwest : Let's help each other get home for Christmas If you have room in your car, or need a ride call 7833 -leave name + date you can leave. 
EUROPE! Take advantage of student tates. Talk to the specialists-BOAC-British Airways. Group inquiries welcome. Call Calrk 234-2098. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1per cent interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of La Fortunn 11: 15­
12:15 Mon.-Fri. 
Overseas Jobs: Austrail ia, Europe, S. America, Africa. , Students all Pre! ·,sssions and occupations $70f to $3000 Ex­penses paid o' time, sight­seeing. Free nformation. Write TRAr·· S WORLD RESEARCH,[' pt. F3, PO Box 603, Corte Ma 2ra, Ca. 94925. 
SPEBSQUA· ver hear of it!? 
The South Jent Barbershop chorus invites you to become a part of li1e largest singing group in the country. Mondays 8 pm Cathedral of St. James basement. 117 N. Layfayette. For info call Lloyd 7733. 
Off campus students: GIGANTIC SNATCH!! Free! Outside the off campus office­Mardi Gras raffle packets! Take any one, unless you must have your won. Help the Master of Middle Earth sell raffle tix. !$2 cmooission on each book. 
CHRISTMAS BUSES TO PITTSBURGH: Meeting and complete payment this sunday. 
Dec. 2 7 pm amphithtater LaFortune. No momey, no reservations. NO REFUNDS FOR CAMCELLATIONS 
MED 
SCHOOL 


ADMISSION 

PROBLEMS? 
EuroMed 
may orter HI via 


overseas training 
For the session starting Fall, 1974, Euromed will assist qualified Amer· ican students in gaining admission to recognized overseas medical schools. 
And that's just the beginning. 
Since the language barrier constitutes the preponderate difficulty in succeed­ing at a foreign school. the Euromed program also includes an intensive 12 week medical and conversational language course, mandatory for all students. Five hours daily, 5 days per week (12-16 weeks) the course is given in the country where the student will attend medical school. 
In addition. Euromed provides stu­dents with a 12 week intensive cul­tural orientation program. with American students now studying medi· cine in that particular country serving as counselors. 
Senior or graduate students currently enrolled in an American university are eligible to participate in the Euromed program. 
For application and further information, phone toll free, 
(800) 645-1234 
or write, 

Euromed, Ltd. 
170 Old Country Road Mineola. N.Y. 11501 
Logan volunteeers: Sat. rec. this eek 9 am. Please try to be there as after rec we will be planning for Xmas party. 
See Emil T. and his polka band in concert Friday 'Dec. 14. Tix on sale now at ACC. 
WANTED 
Help wanted for Saga Food Service. Apply at office, Dining Hall , SDMC. 
Anyonw to haul sofa safely at holidays or end semester to Sanford, N.C. ? Mrs. Apt 4317. 
FOR RENT 
4 BR house, recreation room, study, fireplace, wall to wall carpet, just rennovated, completely furnished. Fro grad students only. Jan. or immediate occupation. AI Brasseur 289-2461. 
Rooms S40 mo. Ride. 233-1329. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to Bloomington this weekend. Share $. Mark 7956. 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! 
Exceptional balues, per­sonaized service. Catalog. 
PMP Co. Box 444 Gaither­sburg, Md. 20760. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Mom + Dad: 
Thanks again for the thirty . second time! Happy An­niversary. 
Love, Mary, Kerry, Kevin, Paddy, and Erin. 
Dear Virginin V. , Hope you found what you wanted. Love, Oscar. 
... 

~ ·-------------------~--~-­

8 the observer Thursday, November 29, 1973 
Irish attempt rebound this weekend against Denver 
by John Fineran killing penalties last weekend their first two series with Colorado 
while Augustine showed continued 

College and North Dakota andIt has been a disappointing start hustle. 
tying and winning an overtimefor the Notre Dame hockey team, game from Ohio State beforebut that can be rectified as Lefty On defense, junior Les Larson beating Air Force last weekend.
Smith's Irish (2-5-1) take on the returns to action after missing the 
defending WCHA champion last Wisconsin contest and both "Denver likes to use the pro­Denver Pioneers (4-2-1) this games against Colorado College style forecheck," Smith said.
weekend in the Athletic and with a severe charley horse. He "That is, they'll send in the centerConvocation Center. It will be a will be paired with senior Steve and have the wings dropping back very unusual series for two Curry. 
to cover their positions.

reasons. The second tandem of defenders 
"Denver is a conservative teamFirst, the series will include will have another All-America because they don't apply deep
Friday night (7:30 p.m.) and choice of a year ago, senior Bill pressure. They wait forSunday afternoon (2:30 p.m.) Nyrop, paired with freshman Paul mistakes." 
encounters instead of the usual Clarke. Another freshman, Jack Friday-Saturday night ones. The Brownschilde, will alternate as the In seven games, the Pioneers reason for this is Notre Dame's fifth defenseman. have scored 34 goals while 
busy weekend of athletics both at allowing only 21. Pete Lo Presti, a
During penalty-killing

home and on television. sophomore from Eveleth, Minn
situations, Smith plans to use 

whose father, Sam, played in theSecond, and most important, Byers and senior Mike Tardani NHL, has been in goal for all seven
Notre Dame will be without the and Israelson with sophomore Pat contests.
services of right wing Ian Williams Novitzki. 
and center Brian Walsh. The two "Lo Presti is a fine goalie,"Senior Mark Kronholm will tendplayers have been handed team Smith said. "He is a big, strong kid 
net both nights for the Irish with

suspensions as a result of with quick hands. I expect him to
either freshman Dave Caron or

misconducts incurred last be one of the premier goalies in the
senior Don Smith getting the call in

weekend during the Irish double­WCHA in years to come."
loss to Colorado College. the event of an emergency. Kronholm has yielded 5.23 goals a 
Denver's one-two punch is
game this season to the opposition, 

"We have a team rule which supplied by seniors Rich Preston 
relates to conflicts with officials," but has frequently been the victim and Rick Bragnalo. The latter Smith said. "It is based on sport­of defensive breakdowns. leads the Pioneers in scoring with smanship. Ian and Brian will each 14 points while Preston has 12. be serving a suspension as a Denver is traditionally one of the Another player who might see result." toughest teams in the WCHA, but action is senior Bob Krieger.
graduation losses might have been Smith has had to reshuffle his too tough for 17-year veteran coach 
"Krieger is one of the top for­
lines for the series. One line will Murray Armstrong to replace. 
wards in the WCHA," Smith said.
remain intact, however. Junior Consequently, the Pioneers have "He is considered a nne proPat Conroy will again center a line been erratic this season, splitting prospect, but so far this year, hewith junior Ray DeLorenzi on the has been hindered by a knee in­
right wing and senior Larry Israelson on the left. The trio have Regatta slated jury." accounted for 37 points with 
Defensively, Denver has one ofDeLorenzi and Israelson being the for Saturday the better-rushing defensemen inteam's leading scorers with 17 and 
12 points respectively. St. Joe Lake will be the scene the league in the person of Bruce Affleck. The sophomore has
Saturday afternoon as freshmen 

scored four goals and two assists"Pat's line has been our most and novice sailors from the Notre from his blueline position. Another
outstanding line to date," Smith Dame sailing team compete in the defenseman, whose name might be reflected. "I am extremely annual intra-club Donahue Cup. 
vaguely familiar to Irish fans, ispleased with their work." This regatta will determine the junior Dave Tomassoni.
champ among new sailors, and this Senior Ric Schafer will center year's event should promise top­
He is, of course, the youngerthe second line. The New notch competition. Paul Makielski 
Brighton, Minn. native, who had and Buzz Reynolds have been the brother of former Irish goaltender Dick Tomasoni, despite the dif­
played defense and right wing his stalwarts for the Irish this year,first three years at duLac, drew but Dave Constants and Bryan ference in the spelling. Dick praise from his coach. "Ric has Ramsey should given them a run dropped one "s" when he came to just been excellent at center this for their money. The winds on St. Notre Dame. It was about the only 
year," Smith said. He already has thing he did drop in his four years
J Joe lake are always tricky, so it scored two goals and three assists . should be an exciting meet. here.
• 
Meanwhile, Bruce Marek, a 

! 
Schafer's wings will be freshman Tickets are still available for
junior and captain of the team, has 

Alex Pirus and senior Eddie both contests. Students can
been named by the 43 member

Bumbacco, an All-America choice present their I.D. and receive a 50
school Midwest Collegiate Sailing

· last season. Pirus has yet to score per cent discount on the otherwise
Association as one of two nominees 
a goal this season, and Bumbacco $3.00 ticket. For those unable to
for the office of Commodore. This

has scored but once after tallying attend the games, there will be the
office is the highest undergraduate 

43 last year. usual area radio broadcasts
office in the MCSA. The MCSA 

<WSND-AM on campus, ·. ,NDU
controls all inter-collegiate

The third line will have fresh­0490) in South Bend). It shu..tld be
sailboat racing in the area from

man Clark Hamilton centering another outstanding weekend of
Ohio to the Rockies. The election

sophomores Tim Byers and Jim collegiate hockey in the Athletic
will be held in February.

Augustine. Byers was impressive and Convocation Center. 


The Irish have had many shots on goal this season, but not enough have gone in the net . . . 
John Fineran=====================:=:=:===================================================:=:::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::=: 

Blarney Stone(d) 

::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::=:::::::::=:=:=:=:============Lt. 

Tim McCarthy== 
No more will the young man awaken on autumn Saturday mornings at 8 
a.m. No more will he make that long, tedious walk across campus to the Athletic and Convocation Center to make sure things are ready to go to the press box. No longer will there be ham and turkey sandwiches waiting at the Sports Information Department and those smiling secretaries, Pat and Lois, there to cheer him out of his Senior Bar hangover. For this young man has seen his last home Notre Dame game as a student. 
I am really going to miss it: the thrill, the pagentry of college football, Notre Dame style. And I think it is the pagentry which I will miss the most. 
To be specific, I am going to miss one thing. Not those 59,075 screaming and partisan fans. The vivacious Irish cheerleaders (the girls, that is)'? No. The Knaked Klunker'? It might be unbearable•, but I will live without him. 

No, I will miss that one certain time which I and the rest of the Notre Dame students look forward to every game. That brief one minute between the third and fourth quarters when a certain man takes over the public address system and announces "This is Lt. Tim McCarthy of the­Indiana State Police." That is what I will miss most about football in Notre Dame Stadium. 
What a joy it is to hear this man at every game. I guess you can say Lt. Tim McCarthy is a lot like a football game. You never know what to expect next. When he talks, you can almost hear a pin drop in the Stadium, and when he finishes, only Bob Hope could appreciate that kind of audience response. 
In these times when police forces are under heavy criticism from the people they serve, it is pleasing to see this one-to-one feeling fostered between McCarthy and the Notre Dame student body. It is certainly going to be tough not to be a part of this feeling anymore. 
I wonder how much time he puts into preparing those words of wisdom. I wonder if he spends as much time on them as I do on these. Anyway, the following items are for your use, Lt. McCarthy, during future games at Notre Dame. 
Purdue: When driving home, remember: people who have had too many Boilermakers don't belong on the road. The Rice Owls: Just like Uncle Ben's; it takes less than a minute to have an accident. So give a hoot! Drive defensively. Army: If you're not careful on the highway, your caisson will go rolling along ... right to the cemetary. Southern Cal: Drive carefully, or you'll end up like Southern Cal after this game .... going home in a Trojan Hearse. Northwestern: Most cats are cool drivers. The Indiana State Police is on the prowl for the Wildcats. Navy: People who drive with a lot of spunk end up like an enemy ship .... SUNK. 
Sports Extravaganza I, produced by Edward W. Krause, will be evident this weekend on the Notre Dame campus. It promises to be delightful three days for all Notre Dame fans. 
Friday night at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Pool, Dennis Stark's swimmers host the Notre Dame Relays. Along with the Irish tankers, the competing schools will be Drury, Wayne State, Bradley, Oakland and Valparaiso. At 7:30p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center, for those who like their water frozen, the defending WCHA champs, Denver, will skate against the Fighting Irish of Lefty Smith. Saturday afternoon, also in the A.C.C., Digger Phelps' cagers begin what they hope will be a successful season against Valparaiso. Tip-off is at 2 p.m. At the same time, Stark's Irish will be hosting Waterloo. 
At 4:30p.m. in the A.C.C., Notre Dame's future hockey players will be at it with Florissant Valley Community College (St. Louis). At 8:15p.m., Notre Dame's Sugar Bowl-bound Irish will go after win Number 10 against Miami in the Orange Bowl. The big weekend ends on Sunday afternoon with Denver and Notre Dame facing -off at 2_:_ 30 p.m. 
As Chris Schenkel says, "What better way to spend a Saturday af­ternoon than College Football." Except, for Notre Dame fans it should be, "What better way to spend a weekend than College Athletic~ at Notre 
Dame." 












