On The Inside 
Comment on amnesty ••. page 2 Real George McGovern 
•.• pageS 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VII I, No. 9 Wednesday, November 14, 1973 
To hold chairmanship 

HPC ·elects McLaughlin 
by Mary Kay Baron Staff Reporter 
HPC members unanimously elected Executive Coordinator Pat McLaughlin as their new chairman at a meeting held yesterday evening at 
6: 15 p.m. in St. Ed's Chapel. Upon his election, Pat appointed Dillon Hall President Wally Gasior to fulfill his former position of HPC Executive Coordinator. 
For two years a hall president at Pangborn and a member of last year's An Tostal Com­mittee, Pat's past leadership experience qualifies his optimistic statement that he "hopes to continue the tradition of good chairmanship," noted Wally Gasior. 
"I'm looking forward to getting at the 
problems," stated Pat. "The calendar, room­picks coming up, and room shortages for next year will leave plenty to do." 
New executive Coordinator Wally Gasior, who was "extremely pleased" with his new position, hopes to "bring the council together as more of a cohesive unit." Gasior organized Freshman Orientation for Dillon Hall for the past two years and was a section leader for one year. 
Also at last night's HPC meeting, a letter was read from the SLC subcommittee on "Campus Life." Committee Chairman Kathy Cekanski requested that the hall chairman submit opinions and ideas regarding "on campus party facilities." HPC members are to consider the need for such a facility and then to suggest facilities to meet it. Responses are due by Students' full cooperation is encouraged inFridav. November 16. 
specific response to the questionnaire survey. Academic Life Commission representative John Representing the Academic Life Commission Mazza informed HPC members that "the surveyand Student Government, John Mazza and Mike shows that the new calendar has not been takenGeisinger distributed calendar surveys and token event and we
petitions to the hall presidents. as a have not responded 
haphazardly to the issue." 
The surveys request that the students respond HPC members will meet again afterto the proposed calendar for the 1974 Fall Thanksgiving vacation.
Semester. According to an administrative 

House Rules Committee votes to limit impounding of funds 
included that section. or the Ways and Means However, there was substan­Committee. However, it could
By DON PHILLIPS tial support for the creation of recommer:d to the Appropria­
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The a 23-member House Budget tions Committee a budge
House Rules Committee Tues­Committee to coordinate the reconciliation bill if appropria­
day approved legislation to present hodge-podge budget­tions exceeded the Budget
limit President Nixon's power making process that sometimes Committee limits. It also could
to impound funds and to create results in failure to pass some recommend a tax bill to the
a new House committee to appropriations bills during the Ways and Means Committee to
oversee the congressional budg­fiscal year for which they were raise revenue to cover excess
et-making process. 
intended. appropriations.
The bill would require the The committee would, for the The fiscal year would be
President to report all im­first time, set overall congres­changed from the present July
poundments to Congress within sional goals for government 1-June 30 cycle to Oct. 1-Sept.
10 days with his reasons for budget outlays, total budget . 30 for budget-making purposes,
withholding the funds. authority, federal revenues, the to allow more time to consider
Either house of Congress public debt limit and the appropriations bills.
could then veto his impound­ment within 60 days and the amount of budget surplus or Congress would be under an deficit. Aug. 1 deadline for passing all
comptroller general, an officer appropriations bills, allowing
of Congress, would be given the It would mark the first time time to reconcile excess appro­power to sue the administration Congress would set overall priations before the new fiscalin federal court to enforce any spending priorities for the year began.
congressional veto. nation, rather than the present The bill also provides that allRepublicans on the Rules system of passing a multitude authorizing bills must beCommittee strongly opposed the of appropriations bills with passed by March 31 each year,impoundment section. Rep. little thought for overall spen· and the new Budget CommitteeDave Martin, R-Neb., ranking ding. 
must set its initial budget goalsGOP committee member, said The new committee apparent­by May 1. Usually thehe assumed Nixon would be ly would not erode the power of President submits his budget ininclined to veto the bill if it the Appropriations Committee January. 

Hesburgh delivers amlual address to faculty members 
by Paul Colgan Staff Reporter 
During Rev. Theodore Hesburgh's annual address to the faculty 
yesterday, he announced that he is considering setting aside 
$300,000 of surplus budget funds to be used for "faculty 
renumeration." 
Fr. Hesburgh's "State of ths University Message," as one ob­
server described it, was delivered in Washington Hall to ap­
proximately 300 faculty members yesterday afternoon. It touched 
oo the topics of faculty salaries, teaching workloads, women faculty 
and students and the Carnegie Commission report on higher 
education. · 
The $300,000 to be set aside for the faculty salaries will be taken 
from a surplus fund of $340,000 from this year's budget according to 
Fr. Hesburgh. The other $40,000 will go to the admissions office. 
The money will be applied towards next years salaries to help 
people "to keep up with inflation." 
Fr. Hesburgh intends to "crank it in as a base" for next year's 
salary budget. The extra money will mean an approximate salary 
increase of 3 per cent for faculty members in addition to the 
budgeted 3per centincrease. Fr. Hesburgh stated that the idea was 
only a plan and was subject to approval by the Board of Trustees. 
The other alternative listed by Fr. Hesburgh would give the 
money to the faculty as an immediate across-the-board bonus. Fr. 
Hesburgh passed over this in favor of the budget proposal because 
he felt the budget increase would be a long term hedge against in­
flation. 
"in business to be a great university" 
"We must sacrifice now for the future," Fr. Hesburgh said. "We 
are not in the business to make money but we're in the business to 
be a great university." 
Th~ across-the-board payment could mean a bonus of ap­
proxlm~tely $450 for each faculty member while the 3 per cent 
~udget_u:•crease would raise the base salary scale. This 3 per cent is 
m addition to the normal budget for salaries and implies that the universitywill have to maintain this base increase over a period of years. The, bonus could not be guaranteed every year. Fr. Hesburgh also mentioned that increased teaching loads are possible. "Some people will be teaching more, some maybe less." 
Fr. Hesburgh welcomed the new faculty members, especially the women. He noted that the number of female faculty had increased ~~om 48 to 66 in the last years or from 6.6 per cent to 9.5 per cent. Bearwith us and be frank with us," Fr. Hesburgh told the women. 
"Put our endeavor into a broader perspective." 
The: new women students were also praised. "The incoming wave of women students have opened up a wide new pool of talent for the admissions office to choose from. We went coed at the proper time," Fr. Hesburgh told the faculty. Male applications were dropping off but the new influx of women applicants prevented any enrollment drops, according to Hesburgh. 
Reports on Carnegie Commission 
The major portion of Fr. Hesburgh's speech was devoted to the reportof the Carnegie Commission of which be was a member. It took six years to make, cost over $6 million and examined 28 in­stitutions. 
The report went through three major crisis over the years ac­cording to Fr. Hesburgh. They were the political crisis of the student revolutions, the financial crisis of failing colleges,and the enrollment growth and drop back. 
"The points of the report are of concern for every college," Fr. Hesburgh noted. They are included below along with Fr. Hesburgh's comments on their relevance to Notre Dame: 
Drastic changes in 20 years 
Clarification of purpose. Colleges have grown, multiplied, and changed drastically in the last 20 years, Fr. Hesburgb observed. The tensions of the student revolutions and shaky finances have brought on a need "for a recreation of a sense of purpose." Notre Dame will survive because "we are a special kind of university. We know our goals and purposes while we don't nursemaid students, we are concerned about them." 
-Inspired teaching by faculty. The student crisis of the 60's makes this high priorty. The Carnegie Commission found that students felt the faculty didn't care bout them. Fr. Hesburgh noted that during the Cambodia crisis over 100 faculty members stayed all night on campus talking to students. He felt this was "good" Iand showed that the faculty cared. "Itis important to keep up this tradition. It is part of our strength," he said. 
-University governance. Fr. Hesburgh here noted that the new academic handbook drawn up last spring helped clarify the ''rights and responsibilities of the faculty and . administration of the university." He also commended the Student Mfairs office for their work in rewriting the student handbook. 
(continued on page 3) 


---....-~---______......-----­

Wednesday, November 14, 1973
1. the observer 
ON TilE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

warld briefs 
<UPD-Prime Minister Golda Meir said Tuesday Israel does not intend to pull its troops back to what she termed the nonexistent cease-fire lines of Oct. 22. But she added Israel has no intention of remaining permanently on the west bank of the Suez Canal, where it holds a 625-square-mile bulge inside Egypt. 
Mrs. Meir said Israel hopes to present uneasy cease fire will be a first step toward "a true peace between ourselves and the neighboring states." 
She said she told President Nixon and Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger in Washington that any pullback of Israeli forces would be in the context of redeploying forces on both sides to achieve more stable cease-fire lines. 
Withdrawal to the Oct. 22 lines was ordered by the U.N. Security Council as part of the cease-fire agreement and Egypt has made it a key point in any Middle East settlement. 
PEKING (UPl) -Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger rounded out his sixth visit to Peking Tuesday with a declaration that "friendship with China is one constant factor of American foreign policy.'j · 
In a toast after 11 hours of talks with Premier Chou En-lao and Communist Party Chairman Mao Tse-tung, Kissinger said, "The progress we have made in our relationship will continue in years ahead whatever happens in the future and whatever the administration in Washington." 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -·Legislation putting the nation on year-round day ling saving time for the next two years was ap­proved by the House and Senate Commerce Committees Tuesday, less than a week after President Nixon proposed the move to save energy. 
The time change-docks would be set one hour later than the present standard time-would be mandatory for all states unless the President approved an exemption. The theory was that people would be awake during more daylight hours and asleep during more hours of darkness, thus reducing electricity consumption. 
an campus taday 
1:15 p.m. & 2:20 p.m.--film, "brazil: the vanishing negro," audio-visual center,• cce, also 7:30 in black cultural arts center, Iafortune. 
2:30 p.m.-lecture, "radiation--enhanced perception at voids," dr. paul okamoto, room 5, engineering building. 
3: OOp.m.-meeting,arts and letters college council, room 102-104, cce. 
3:30 p.m.-lecture, "social costs and social responsibility," dr. sidney davidson, library auditorium. 
4:30 p.m.-lecture, "superoxide dismutase," dr. robert hill, room 12 room 123, n.s.h. 
6:30 p.m.-meeting, sailing club, room 204, engineering bldg. 
7:00 
& 9:00 p.m.-film, "start the revolution without me," engineering aud. 

7:00 
p.m.-film, "brian's song," o'laughlin auditorium. 

7:00 
p.m.-meeting, mecha, basement of Iafortune. 


7:30 
p.m.-lecture, "most rich in youth--the phenomenon of human growth," dr. frank h. thorp, carroll hall. 

7:30 
p.m.-seminar, for faculty and graduate students on the report of the study group on the objectives of financial statements by dr. sidney davidson, room 121, hayes-healy center. 

7:30 
p.m.-lecture, "cultural transformation--the chicano ex­perience," dr. rodolfo alvarez, room 208, O'shaughnessy hall. 


8:00 p.m.-lecture, "Master portraits from renaissance to age of photography,'' dr. bruno schlesinger, art department, o'sh­haughnessy hall. 
8: 15 p.m.--concert, james hejduk, organist, sacred heart church, free. 
9:30 p.m.-lecture, "right to life," kiefe montgomery, stanford hall chapel. 

LEARN TO JUMP 

MCPC lnc.iSkydiving center 
located 15 min. North East of N.D. 3 miles North of Edwardsburg, Mic~·: for rnore\1nformation call (616) 445·8251 
Hesburghs amnesty stand 




Faculty reactions vary 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame faculty members reacted with varying degrees of approval to Father Theodore Hesburgh's statement on amnesty as shown in a letter appearing in yesterday's ·Observer. 
The letter, which was drafted primarily by the American Civil Liberties Union, was signed by forty-nine American civic leaders. 
The letter called for "an un­conditional amnesty, pardon, or fair restitution for all men who are charged with, my be charged with, or have been convicted of offenses arising out of their refusal to participate in ths military action in Southeast Asia, or for offenses 
against military law while doing so." 
Copies of the letter have been sent to executive and congressional leaders in the government as well as to various publications throughout the country. 
Father William Toohey, Director of Campus Ministry, gave strong support to the letter. 
"You tend to look at the people who made this statement and say, 'Whatever all these people are supporting must be good,' " Father Toohey said, emphasizing the "versatility of the personages signing the letter." 
"With so many things con­tributing so much to a growing catastrophe in this nation, this gesture is certainly a reaching out 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
for the healing we so desperately unjust to punish those who refused 
need,'' Fr. Toohey stated. 

to take part in it,'' Fr. Griffin 
"A drink of good wine is nice at observed. any time but when you're dying of Stanley Hauerwas, a ·Theologythirst, it's like a healing balm,'' 
Professor, remarked that the Toohey added. 
letter was "well done" and that he Father Robert Griffin, "strongly agrees with the 
Assistant Director of Campus statement." Ministry, called the letter 

a History Professor Robert Kerby, "magnificent statement." 
who like Fr. Toohey has long been 
"The war has been exposed as a crime against human~t:y and it is (continued on page 7) 
Anyone wishing to purchase a 

Freshmen Photo Directory 
may do so: 

TUES. & WED. 2:30 -5:30 STUDENT UNION OF­FICE, 4th FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 

AM-FM STEREO SYSTEM 

~Jm~·
421 Hickory Rd. I 

WAY OF MAKING WARM FRIENDS ... 

SWEATERS 
Choose from a rainbow of colors in a popular and practical crew neck style. They'll serve you well. .. 
from $12 

We also have a good selection of V­necks, turtles, cardigans, etc., etc. 
0
o • o • of o I I I r I •' 


--~-­ ----~---------------­ 
: _( t  ; ;  , ;, r. r ; • ,. l.  .'·  
Wednesday, November 14, 1973  the observer  3  

Hesburgh delivers ci:nnual speech 
(continued from page 1) 
-Academic independence. This applied mostly to state supported schools vis-a-vis state and federal authorities, according to Fr. Hesburgh. Notre Dame's problem is vis-a-vis the Catholic Church. "We are not the Catholic Church. We have a special kind of in­stitution requiring special un­derstanding,'"Fr. Hesburgh said. "Ours is an enlightened task" that needs input from all sides. Justice. Fr. Hesburgh explained that this referred to opening up access for minorities and the poor to the university to aid their up­ward mobility. He also noted that the university currently has a $3 million endowment set aside ex­clusively for scholarships. This is important, Fr. Hesburgh siad, because "for every student brought here (on scholarship) you have to assure him a four year commitment." -Government financial support to private institutions. The per­centage of students in private schools is decreasing along with 
the amount of government support money, Fr. Hesburgh noted. Some government grant programs were not even funded. The Carnegie Commission said that private institutions are going to have to get money from outside sources, according to Fr. Hesburgh. In­flation was another problem noted by Fr. Hesburgh. 
-Student participation ht the decision-making processes. Fr. Hesburgh felt this was not a major problem facing Notre Dame because students are now on many university councils. "It's hard to see a committee they're not on" he commented. 
Renovation of liberal education. "We have really gutted education." Fr. Hesburgh said. "What went wrong when college educations led us into Viet­nam ... (and) Watergate?" The students got lots of information. They didn't get the values. He noted that these doctors and 
lawyers  seemed  to  lack  "the  
personal ability  to  reflect  on  
honesty,  honor  or  individual  

responsibility or justice or equity or love of family or country." 
-"The New York Times felt they had to call Notre Dame (last Christmas) to get an article on values."Fr. Hesburgh told the faculty, "We have something special to give the students. We are not existing to fill kidswith in­formation or to give them skills." 
-Leadership. The Carnegie Commission found that the student revolutions indicated the lack of leadership in American colleges, according to Fr. Hesburgh. "We have a great need for creative leadership," he said. As an example of creative leadership Fr. Hesburgh pointed out the establishment of the non-violence program. He felt it provided "an equilibruim that pulled us through Cambodia" without violence. 
The normal tension between faculty and administration is "healthy" according to Fr. Hesburgh. "It keeps us honest." He also noted that each should be free of unnecessary restraints "so that they can do what they know best." 
Fr. Hesburgh commented that the financial problems were restricting the creativity of the university. "The flexible money is drying up into survival money. We'll try to get money in there for creativity," he said. He noted that this would make a tight budget that could mean sacrifice in some places. 
The budget problems also make tenure decisions difficult. . The need for new people every year to keep a flow of new ideaslimits the amount of tenured faculty. "This creates a tension between tenured and younger faculty," Fr. Hesburhg explained. "There is 

Steaks for Thanksgiving Dinner 
will cost 
by Martha Lampkin Staff Reporter 
Five thousand pounds of 
U.S.D.A. choice strip loins, 1800 pounds of potatoes, 608 pounds of frozen peas and onions, 384 heads of lettuce, 600 dozen rolls, 550 pies, 120 gallons of sherbet, and 160 gallons of milk will fill more than 5,000 stomachs this Thursday in both ND dining halls for the annual Pre-Thanksgiving Dinner. 
This amount of food is enough to supply dinner for one person for sixteen years. And the cost of the 
meat alone ($9,750.00) could pay
for two and a half years of tuition,room • and board at Notre DameorSt.Mary'swithplentyleft over for a summer trip to Europe. Such is the price of supplying one 
meal for Notre Dame residents. Steak, however, is a more ex­
pensive entree than most. To 
produce the 5850 ten ounce steaks needed for the meal, 5,000 pounds of U.S.D.A. choice strip loins were 
purchased at $1.95 per pound. Thus, each strip steak is worth
approximately $1.22, whereas an individual serving of roast beef 
Jordan Ford 



students over $9.750 
costs a little over a third of this price. (For the cost of an entire roast beef meal for 5,000 you could buy a new Pinto and afford enough gas to get you to the bowl game and back during semester break.) 
Why steak for Thanksgiving? According to Food Services Director Edmund Price, it is simply to break away from the traditional turkey and dressing routine. This year poses new problems for the Food Service Staff because of the Notre Dame­Air Force game on Thanksgiving Day. 
The more personalized buffet meal usually served on 
Thanksgiving Day for students remaining on campus can't possibly accomodate the larger crowd that the game will bring to 
the dining halls. Therefore, a meal 
similar to the students' usual Pre-
Th nk · 1 
a sgiving mea will be served to the football crowd, and the special steak meal will be served 
to the students. The menu for 
tomorrow's steak meal consists of: cran apple juice 
cheese and crackers 
grilled strip steak 
oven roasted potatoes 
buttered peas with tiny onions relish plate apricot cheese mold mixed greens with Genoa dressing Vienna rolls butter and honey pecan crunch pumpkin pie lime sherbet coffee, tea, milk, and cold 
beverages. 


ACAPULCO 
Dec. 21-28 


$289 
Com!Jiete 
Students, Faculty, & St.lf contact 
233-4818

vagabond 
EVES.

tocars 

. ------------~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~
;._ 
VOLUNTEER SERVICES PRESENTS: 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 

go to Wednesday, Nov. 14 Volunteer Services [}onation: $.50 Thanksgiving Charity Drive. 
nothing you can do about it.We need to get as much creativity as possible." 
Fr. Hesburgh also noted that re_quc:sts for admission ap­plications are up this year. They are 22 per cent higher for men and 113 per cent for women. The aggregate total is up 39 per cent over last year. 
Fr. Hesburgh closed the talk by thanking the faculty. "Someone ought to thank all of you for coming to this place. I'd like to hope and believe it is a blessing for all of us to be here." 
Most faculty approached 


::*:;:;:::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:~;~;:::::;:;~:~:~:::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 
ffj:' rrJM' ~~Stationary 20% off\~j~ Cards 
. ~ ..... ·.·. 
· ::~: with this ad. ~:~: ..~· c·' ~:~....·.·.·.·.•,•·.·······································································:·:·:·;;;;....•.•..•.•.•.•.•.•..•.,•..•.•.•.•.•,•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•..•..•..•.•.•.•.•.•.·~~
,•' Books 
' ' .:. ~ '· c:.·; :. ~ Magazines
~

5~ 
, ~ mini-mall. ~ town & countrv' ~': -v 2340 miracle lane Art shopping center J:\.\L:IJ mishawaka, indiana 46544 supplie~ 


declined to comment after the talk. Prof. Richard Lammana replied that he was "puzzled on the r~ises." He was also disturbed by his comments on teaching loads. "He ought to come out and say 



wha_t~tii~~tf~::: 
Yesterday's Observer in­
correctly stated that the Mary 
Ellen Carter ticket defeated the 
Sue  Egan  ticket  in  the  SMC  
Freshman  Class  Officer  
primaries.  The  Egan  ticket  

actually won by gaining 105 votes to 55 votes for the Carter ticket. 










THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
lee Gentine Business Manager 

Back In August? 
Today your section leader will hopefully present you with a survey concerning the new academic calendar which will be officially announced Friday. Fill out the survey completely and honestly and take pains to return it to your hall government members as quickly as possible because the results of the poll will determine what action the student representatives on the Academic Council will take. 
If the poll shows that the students are indifferent about the new calendar, or that possibly they are in favor of it, the representatives will let it pass. But, as is more likely, if the students, should voice their overwhelming disfavor of the calendar, they will attempt to recall the question in the council for recon­sideration. 
And it is a question which deserves reconsideration. In the secrecy of the council -a legislated secrecy -the question of the calendar can come to question, be considered and passed with the campus media, students and many faculty in the dark over what is going on there. And it seems only fair to 
The Best Choice 
The recommendation of the HPC Committee to use the gym behind Holy Cross Hall as a "Party House" is a good suggestion. Hopefully it will be im­plemented as quickly as possible. 
The facility is large enough to hold the big parties and isolated enough so as not to bother students with noise and the party atmosphere. It is a good choice. 
' 
I  
r ~  rr~~~~  1HERE Y()(J HAVE IT; BOSS.  ~~~  /1/tt/..., THIS IS THE 8!661351  
r "  (/ IVOIV! I CAN'T /JELIEVc IT! \  .mooow11~ VICT!/15! I  I'M AMAZEP! AN/J I'M NO STI?AN6CR. TO REfl/6&e  IN AU OF OIM800/A. I  
CAMPS!"­ 

Jerry lutkus Editor-'in-Chief  Dan Barrett Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  ?113-7471  Advertising Manager  

Wednesday, November 14, 1973 
reconsider the question with a better idea of what the students and faculty -the people who have to live by the calendar­think about its implementation. 
As Academic Council rep John Mazza said Monday, it would be clearly irresponsible on the part of the ad­ministration not to reconsider the issue if the students are not in favor of it..especially if it's shown that the students are overwhelmingly against it. 
But this is all jumping the gun because if the survey shows that the students are not against the calendar then it would be senseless to call for a reconsideration. If past years are used as examples, however, students should show by the end of this week that they clearly don't want the calendar. 
Nonetheless, the question is clearly in the hands of the students right now. Fill out the survey and return it. That's all you really have to do and if you comply you'll be giving your representatives on 
Jerry Lutkus 
the  council  their  best  piece  of  am­ 
munition...  the  solid  backing  of  the  
student body.  

The only drawback is that the gym is merely a space-a shell into which parties can be moved and then extricated upon their completion . It was hoped that a more permanent facility could have been found, one that carried its own at­mosphere, but such a facility is not present. The gym behind Holy Cross is simply the best place available. 
Jerry Lutkus 
~~~~ EV£NTH& 

~~~r(~·l
e:3 ~~ ])'l (]'-CAMBOOIANS ARE ~ :l 4 JNCRBJt/l()(JS -FolKS 

~~ .I Jl/ST HOP& c7fJJCOM~ OtiT HERE AU 
-VIU IT l106SN'T G~T THe TIM& Jl/ST TO SEE JH£ 
ALL.-7lJ(Jf?ISTY. 
CIIMP.I IT'S CONS/OCR£/) 
I 
liN IMPOI<TANT 511£3! 

Palar Bearin-:~s 
Wonder Bread Affair 
ann mc:c:arry IJreiJ aiella 
Dear Greg, 
. Do you ~ver stop and think about what you aredoing? In a seemingly mappropnate place are you ever confronted with a situation that triggers a reverie of though and emotion? 
It is a condition of growth, I guess, that our personal realities are constantly in a state of flux. I've accepted that. It is the unexpected and rapid change that scares me. Among all these vicissitudes there must be some stabilizing factor, some underlying truth of a pragmatic nature. 
Our country is faced with the biggest political scandal in our history. 
Investigations are uncovering deceptions which1·each into the Sixties which we have so long idealized as an era of Camelot, and the triumph of all that is good. And so the government is nottheplace to look for stability. 
Does a slight measure of stolidness exist anywhere? I've tried to find it in music, art, literature, education, television, even the Church. It has eluded me. Even Elvis Presley spoiled his image and got a divorce. As a last ditch effort I went to the most basic of all elements -food, the bread of life, the eternal necessity. And then to the inost common of these ... Wonder Bread. 
_..... The Ultimate Delusion! 
The Federal Trade Commission ruled recently that good old Wonder Bread has been lying to us for over a decade. Yes, sad but true, Wonder Bread does not build strong bodies twelve ways. 
Another tenant of idealistic youth shot down! 
Who can we trust? 
Peace and Love, Camarry 

Dear Camarry, 
Fortunately, man does not live by bread alone but God knows I believed in Wonder Bread. I ate it plain and I ate it toasted· Iateit with blackberry jelly and I ate it with cinnamon; I rolled it i~to compact balls of sweet Wonder dough and I tacked Wonder Bread bags to my wall; and I waited for the twelve great developments of physique that would lead me to legendary achievement in the hallowed field of athletic endeavor. 
Instead, I grew tall and skinny and weak and I watch the proceedings from the sidelines and I dreamed a lot. For that I've always hated that brat who grew so well under the TV magic of Wonder Bread. Still, I never questioned the stuff. I thought it was some deficiency in my chemistry, or more likely, just plain bad luck. 
Now the F.T.C. comes along, like great iconoclasts in bureaucratic clothing, to tell us that Wonder Bread, the largest selling white bread in the country, has been falsely advertised for the past decade as an extraordinary food that will cause children to grow. Another white myth is shattered bri!lging a long cry of redemptive joy from the long oppressed ovens of the cracked wheat and pumpernickel. 
But.. .let us not rush to judgment. As you have noted this is not a time of easy faith. The walls are crumbling around us: We do not know where the next fragment of truth will emerge from the mon­strosity of our convoluted reality. Infact, about the Wonder Bread Affair, I hear it rumored, especially around the corridors of the Washington Post, that Pepperidge Farm (with no small interest in the fate of the Wonder stuff) surreptitiously deposited $500,000 into the Christmas Club fund of Bebe Rebozo. The implication is obvious. 
Yes, Camarry, it is bewildering. There isn't much left to believe in these days. I wouldn't even recommend looking in the mirror. I hesitate to mention this, but the time for truth is upon us: They are 
whispering the final indignity both in the subways of New York and the basement of the Memorial Library, the great crusher, the final destruction of our youth. They are quoting reliable sources that Mickey Mouse is a pimp. I kid you not. Next we'll be told that Jesus was a tax evader. 
Who can you trust? 
Your trusty friend,
Greg 


daanesbury varrytrud•au 
the observer 
Night Editor: AI Rutherford Asst. Night Editor: Tom Devine Layout: Maria Gallagher Copy Editor: Greg Aiello Day Editor: Jim Rosini Typists: C. Fourre, J. Flannigan, T. Modglin, C. Rechtensteiner Cl)rnpu.graphic: Joe Abell Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Night Controller: t. j. clinton 
------------·-­

Wednesday, November 14, 1973 the observer 




meet the real george mcgovern 
Senator McGovern's plane suddenly needed engine repairs in Chicago. So the flight that was supposed to come in at 4 p.m. didn't land in South Bend until after 6. 
Chuck Nau was annoyed at the delay. He waited those two hours to drive the Senator to Notre. Dame Tom Webster, McGovern's travelling press secretary, was also angry about having to wait. But McGovern seemed unruffled. As he walked into the terminal, a small crowd converged on him, to greet him and shake his hand. Slowly, he worked his way through the crowd, smiling and taking his time. 
Finally Nau and Webster ushered him to a waiting car to drive him to the Morris Inn and then to a dinner that was already under way. In the car, he met the first of his formal duties of the night. The Observer was there in the car to interview him. It seemed that McGovern had been asked the same questions hundreds of times before. In a reassuring way, he helped the nervous reporter stumble through the interview. 
At the Morris Inn, more people waited to see McGovern, and a photographer began taking the first of hundreds of pictures that night. After checking into the room, the Senator went off by himself to clean up for dinner. "Call ahead and tell them to start without us," he told Nau. "I don't want anyone waiting on my account. I don't eat n1uch at these dinners anyway." 
The dinner was held at the headquarters 
of the Hickey Construction Company, an old 
building renovated to accommodate offices 
as well as to entertain large gatherings. 
About 50peopleattended, mostly law school 
faculty and students who had worked for 
McGovern during the campaign. 
While the senator ate and visited with 
guests, Webster arranged for the rest of the 
schedule. This included times for further 
interviews, whether there would be questions after the talk and for how long, and what would be expected during the law school reception after the speech. It was the press secretary's job to decide how much the-Senator could do and for how long he could do it. 



McGovern arrived ahalf hour late for the speech at Stepan Center. By that time, all 1700 chairs were filled and rows of peope stood in the back and along the sides. When McGovern appeared on stage, the audience applauded warmly. 
Because they were late, Chuck Nau began a quick introduction. He ended with words that brought the crowd to their feet: " ... despite the jeers of people who should have known better, George McGvoern remained committed to his principles. I give you a man who clearly should be president, Senator George McGovern." 
McGovern began his speech with a few comments on Notre Dame's football team. He told how the recent Southern Cal game was the best college football game he had ever seen and 2,000 applauded. Further commenting about Notre Dame, McGovern said: "You should be proud of your President, Father Hesburgh. Rather than 
resigning from  the  Nixon  administration  
because he had no  principles, he had  to  
leave  because  his  principles  were  too  
strong."  

McGovern's speech was interrupted many times by applause, but most vigorously when he mentioned impeach­ment for President Nixon, the resignation of Spiro Agnew, and the vote to override Nixon's veto of the war powers bill. His speech was not particularly dynamic, but the audience responded well. It was as if they had come to see the man rather than hear the words. 
When McGovern concluded, the crowd immediately stood and applauded for several minutes. McGovern came to wave at the front of the stage once, twice and three times. Then he sat down, hopin'g the applause would stop. It didn't. Finally, he rose to wave again, a little bit embarrassed this time, but grateful also. 
Later Chuck Nau would tell McGovern that there hadn't been a reception like his since Bobby Kennedy came in 1968. Web­ster would comment that he had never seen that kind of sustained applause, not even during the campaign. 
After a period of questions and answers, McGovern stood at the front of the stage for nearly a half hour ,shaking hands and signing autographs. At one point, a girl handed him her new saddle shoe to autograph. "This is real grass roots sup­port," he joked. 
david kaminski 
McGovern returned to the car to drive to the law school reception. His face looked tired and strained. His voice was hoarse and cracking. "Well, we'll go to the reception now and say hello to everyone for awhile," he said. But it was clear that he had almost had enough for one night. And yet, there were more people anxious to see him. 
· Webster became concerned about the 
Senator's fatigue. McGovern would have to 
face Scholastic and WSND interviews in the 
morning at breakfast. Then a plane ride to 
Indianapolis would be all the time he would 
have to prepare for a debate Monday night. 
But McGovern remained calm. When he 
got to the reception, he walked into a crowd 
of several hundred people, all waiting to 
meet him. He never rushed anyone, always 
smiled, and din't emerge from the crowd for 
nearly an hour. 
"It was amazing," Nau said about the 
reception crowd. "People kept coming up 
saying that they had worked for him in this 
or that state, had lead campaigns in such­
and-such city. And they were all so happy." 
"You know, Chuck," McGovern said, as 
they left the reception and headed for the 
Morris Inn, "this crowd was just wonderful 
tonight. Despite what all the commentators 
have said, I still believe that the campuses 
are where the action is, and will be in the 
future." After being with him all evening, 
one wouldknow that McGovern sincerely 
meant what he said. Just before leaving, 
McGovern told Nau how frustrating his 
experience with the news media had been 
during last year's campaign. "We just 
couldn't seem to show who the real George 
McGovern was," he mused. 
If the real George McGovern is someone who makes time for people, who is patient and interested, Notre Dame met the real man that night. 




I• missed the southern cal rosary 
Quite a few students were very deeply and sincerely disturbed over the rosary prayed at the grotto prior to the So. Cal. game. To many of them, it smacked of a prayer­wheel, con-God-into-giving-us-a-favor sort of thing. I have to admit I was uneasy over it myself. But I'm not about to knock those who went; after all. I'm the guy who for four years has led the team in prayer in the locker-room before the games. What it did do was force me to reflect on my own un­derstanding of prayer. 
It has always bothered me when people say things like they did after Saturday's game: "Well, your prayers really worked today, Father!" Is that supposed to mean the prayers of the So. Cal. fans didn't work? The God I believe in doesn't cause fumbles, help with tackles, influence passes; and His Mother doesn't guide Bob Thomas' field­goals through the uprights. God doesn't win football games for us. Men win games. God's desire is to win men. 
The problem centers around the prayer of 
petition, the trickiest form of prayer to 
understand. Jesus says: "Ask, and it will 
be given to you; search, and you will find; 
knock, and the door will be opened to you." 
Well, we've done all that loads of times, and 
it hasn't worked. What is this, a gigantic 
put-on? I am cpnvinced the answer is to·be found at the end of that same passage (Lkll, 13), when Jesus declares that the Father will always give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him. 

Jesus is pointing out that prayer doesn't ~ork on God, it works on us. Prayer is not to mform · God or persuade Him· it is our surrendering to Him and conse~ting to His giving us the best of all gifts-Himself. Take that difficult line from the Our Father: "Give us this day our daily bread." He knows we need good things (bread) and wants to give them to us. What then is happening when we pray those words? Augustine puts it well: "God tells us, 'be open, man.' He is disposed to give all, but smce we are free, He cannot give unless we open to Him and thereby make ourselves truly accessible." 
Consequently, prayer does something to us. It is an unlocking and opening ex­perience. Primarily, it is not presenting requests to God; it is giving self to Him. Only then can he "gift" us with the Holy Spirit, the greatest favor of all, even though we ~on't a_lwa¥s realize it. All real prayer carnes With It the spirit of Jesus' own prayer: "Not my will but yours be done." We catch the movement of opening and surrender in this: it is our effort to allow God to have us and to lead us home. Thus !\1alcolm Boyd asks t~e wrong question. It IS not, "Are you runmng with me, Jesus?" but "Am I running with you, Jesus?" 
Sure, he is with us; but not just to go along wherever we might fancy. He is the one who is the _w_ay, not us. Itis _reported that during the Civil War one of Lmcoln's men said to him, "Let us pray that God is on our side." Abe replied: "You've got it precisely back­wards. We better pray we are on God's side!" 
I've begun to realize that one of my monumental stupidities was in saying "I pray to God all the time, but He never' an­swers me." I see now that if I truly pray to God, I give myself to Him; and that He always answers. My mistake was in thinking my prayer was not answered unless God granted specific requests for need~ I had. Not that it is a bad thing to me~tiOn causes, concerns, and special in­tentions. But, even here, the key is in their helping to authentically open us to a loving ~ather,_ trusting that whatever He permits m our hfe can be dealt with as long as we belong to Him. 
Jesus' own prayers of petition illustrate this perfectly. In the garden, He made a very specific request: "If it's possible, 
fr. bill toohey 

Father, let this cup (suffering) pass me by." But it wasn't answered. We're probably tempted to say, "If God's own Son couldn't get a request filled, what chance have we?" That, however, was not the entire prayer. Jesus added, "But not my will, but yours be done.'' In this surrender, we see the essence of prayer, and, by the way, the reason real prayer "always works." 
The s~me thing happened at Calvary. Jesus didn't feel like praying and didn't sense anyone was listening: "My God, why have y~m fo~s~ken me?" In spite of that, he was still w1lhng to open and give: "Into Your hands I commend My spirit." And that prayer led to Resurrection! 
It seems to me that what happens to us ~long the way to our becoming a full person IS God. And prayer is allowing Him to happen. It may take a long time for us to real~y let Him happen; we may not always feel It; and the responsibility it thrusts upon us may shake us. But, somehow, the effort the struggle, the pain, all seem worthwhile.' Maybe there's a connection between all of this and a poem that's meant a lot: 'I believe in the sun even when it is not shining. I believe in love even when I am :~lone. I believe in God even when he is 
silent." 
~------~--­

--l 
·~·"'0 ,o '"·' f l" '·'· t'l ,.~:, :\,',.._,...,,,
.., '< . ~· ,.. :., '·~· .·: , 4 . 
I 
6 the observer 'Knew it last April' 
Rybarczyk to vacate office in December 
by Rick Scharf Staff Reporter 

Despite Student Union Director Jim Rybarczyk's denials last year, he will graduate in December and vacate his position, it was learned yesterday. 
Shortly after receiving the post last April Kevin Krull chargedthat Rybarczyk withheld information concerning his graduation status from the committee selecting the Student Union Director. In the April 4, 1973 Ovserver Rybarczyk denied that he was going to graduate in December, only that "the possibility existed" that he might graduate, and steps would be taken if he should. 
Rybarczyk further denied the charge in the April 5, 1973 Ob­server, although the Observer reported that Rybarczyk was registered with the Placement Bureau as a December graduate. 
In an Observer interview yesterday Rybarczyk stated that he "knew it last April" when asked about his December graduation plans, "but I did not make a definite decision until over the summer," he added. "It will be economically better for me to graduate now, and applications are now being taken for a new director." 
Interviews to fill the position of Student Union Director began Tuesday afternoon under the direction of Student Government arid the Student Union: 
The position of director will be filled by an underclassman who . will assume the post until April '75. 
The person chosen will be a co­director of the Student Union with the present Assistant Director · Pete Bohlander until April '74 when he then becomes the director. 
"The best thing to do is select a co-director," said Rybarczyk, "since all the office holders will be graduating, and there will be no one qualified to fill the spots. Bohlander has the necessary background to teach the person picked to be his co-director, and this will insure a smooth flow in January after I have left, and a smooth transition in April when the rest of the present group steps down." Rybarczyk also pointed out that it will be easier for the person chosen to pick the '74-'75 staff in April since he will be aware of the people who are dependable and how the Student Union operates. 
The decision to select a co­director to fill the director's position was made by the Board of Directors of the Student Union last week. "This action must be ap­proved by the Board of Com­missioners before it is official, but there should be no problem in getting their approval," Rybarc­zyk noted. 
Other changes in the Student Union include the resignations of Ken Natale as Academic Com­missioner and Ken Muth as 

Annual Benefit Basketball 
Notre Dame students will sponsor an annual Benefit 
Basketball game, matching the Number One Irish squad against a team of outstanding freshmen, at 2 
p.m. Saturday, November 17, in the arena of the Athletic and Con­vocation Center. 
The _ proceeds of the game will be used by students to purchase food for needy families in the South Bend area in advance of Thanksgiving Day. Tickets for the event are fifty cents for those of high school age and above, and twenty-five cents for children . Parking lot attendants, ushers and other personnel are 
contributing their services so that a maximum number of food baskets might be purchased. 
• 
Champions of the National In­vitational Tournament in Madison Square Garden until the final 
secrmd last season, the Notre Dame varsity squad returns intact for another shot at the national championship. Performing in this exhtbition contest will be the NIT's 
Barth·collection on display 
A collection of pictures and literary works of the famed theologian, Karl Barth (1886-1968) will open today in the Rare Book and pecial Collection area of the Memorial Library. The display has been arranged by the Department of Theology and is open to the public during the five­day showing. 
Rev. John H. Yoder, director of the Program for the Nonviolent R€>solution of Conflict and visiting associate professor of theology, completed arrangements for the display here with the Pro Helvetia Foundation of Zurich, Switzerland. 


Chris Amato receives proclamation concerning the charity b-ball game from South Bend Mayor Jerry Miller 
most valuable award winner, John  contact  AI  Sondejat  (7077) or  
Shumate, along with Dwight Clay,  Denny Bren nan at (3470).  
Gary Novak, Gary  Brokaw and  

RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 
to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days). 
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALl F. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 Our research material Is sold for research assistance only. 

Peter Crotty. 
Highly rated freshmen on this year's squad include Bill Paterno, Lincroft, N.J.; Adrian Dantley, Washington, D.C.; Toby Knight, Port Jefferson, N.Y.; Ray Martin, 
Long Island City, N.Y.; Bill An­drew, Centereach, N.Y.; and Dave Kuzmicz. South Bend. ~ 
Advanced ticket sales for the 
game have begun at the A.C.C. 
Drivers are still needed to 
distribute food starting at 9 a.m. on 
Tuesday. Those interested should 
HlllVY 

IIKIHR 

VIRGIL FOX 
WITH 
REVELATION LIGHTS ALL-BACH PROGRAM RODGERS TOURING ORGAN WED. NO. 21, 8:30 pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 

RESERVED SEATS $6, $5, $4. $1.00 STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC ID. TICKETS AT MORRIS CIVIC BOX OFFICE 11:00-5:00 DAILY. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, 
. CALL 232-6954. . . 
Associate Director. Natale's resignation, effective im­mediately, is due to his graduation in December. The position of Academic Commissioner has been filled by Andy Bury. Ken Muth, a graduate student, resigned because the Board of Com­missioners determined that it was not proper for him to serve in an undergraduate organization. His duties are being assumed by Pete Bohlander, Assistant Director of the Student Union. 
JlrttfOIIt 
Tires 

GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 



General Store 
• 
Water Beds 

• 
LEATHER GOODS 


·MAGAZINES ·Newspapers 
·CLOTHING 
·Posters 
• S·track Tapes·CANDLES ·Jewelry·Cards 
·INCENSE 
·Rugs•Tapestry ·Bedspreads ·PIPES 
·PAPERS 
•lites 
•NOVELTIES 
·BOOKS 


113 West 
MonroeSt 
ONE BLOCK WEST OF THE NEW 
cl 
POST OFFICE 

.' . 
Wednesday, November 14, 1973 
the observer 7 1 
.. ... ~ ' . 

-j 





Bill requires allocation of petrol 
By WILLIAM C. CLAYTON 

WASHINGTON (UPI) -The House overwhelmingly ap­proved Tuesday a bill to require the President to allo­cate shrinking supplies of crude oil and petroleum products. 
The Senate, which was holding off until the House acted on the House-Senate conference version, had quit for the day before the House vote, but is expected to give the bill final passage this week. 
The House and Senate passed differing versions of the bill, but in conference committee, most of the House portions were kept. The conference version passed the House Tuesday 348 to 46. 
It would require mandatory allocation of crude oil, residual (heavy) fuel oil, and every refined petroleum product. 
The bill is intended to make sure the neediest users get the petroleum products they need despite the energy pinch. The allocation system would have to be drawn up within 15 days after final enactment of the law, and would run through February of 1975. 
The -allocation differs from consumer rationing of, say, gasoline, in that allocation is a requirement to producers and suppliers that they furnish certain amounts to certain customers, and consumer ra­tioning prevents the individual consumer from buying more than a given amount. In some cases, the effect is the same. 
President Nixon has the power, under the Economic 
Stabilization  Act,  to  require  
allocations  of  fuels  that  are  in  
short  supply.  But  the  bill  the  

House approved would force that action on him. 
So far, the administration has put into effect the mandatory 

Gulf fifth corporation guilty of illegal campaign contributions 
By JAMES HILDRETH 

WASHINGTON <UPI) -A federal judge fined Gulf Oil Corp. $5,000 Tuesday after it pleaded guilty to making $125,000 in illegal campaign contributions for President Nixon and two Democratic presidential hopefuls last year. 
At the same time, the government charged Ashland Oil Inc. with making an illegal $100,000 contribution to Nixon's re-election campaign on April 3, 1972, four days before the new campaign finance disclosure law went into effect. 
Gulf was the fifth major corporation to plead guilty to an illegal political contribution, and the first to acknowledge any to Democratic candidates. Of the $125,000 it admitted making, $15,000 went to Rep. Wilbur Mills , D-Ark., and $10,000 to Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash. 
The Justice Department filed a criminal information in U.S. 
Hesburgh's letter on amnesty issue 
(continued from page 2) 
active m tns amnesty controversy, took issue with one aspect of the statement. "The statement seems to assume that every evasion of military duty or military responsibility was prompted by conscientious objection to the war," Kerby noted. 
"While I agree Ulat amnesty should be extended to those who avoided duty due to conscientious objection, general amnesty 'for offenses against military law' would subvert any military discipline," he stated. 
District Court in Catlettsburg, Ky., later in the day against Ashland, one of the first corporations to admit publicly an illegal campaign contribu­tions. The suit was filed technically against Ashland Petroleum Gabon, an Ashland subsidiary, and Orin E. Atkins, chairman of the Ashland Oil board of directors. 
Ashland is subject to a maximum penalty of $5,000 and Atkins to a maximum fin~ of $1,000 and a year in prison. 
Gulf and one of its vice presidents got the maximum fine under a federal law which prohibits national banks, capo­rations or labor unions from making campaign contribu­
tions,  either  directly  or  in­ 
directly,  and  forbids  anyone  
from  receiving  them.  


Woody says: 
Join the 


NICKlE'S FOR LUNCH BUNCH 
Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m.-7 p.m. 
Y2 lb. Bourbon Burger J2 oz. bowl "Soup de Nickie's:' 



g & g productions present 

THE ISLEY BROTHERS 
~lso featuring 
RIOT 
Sunday November 18 
two shows 7 & 1 0 p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium ickets on sale • Morris Civic Auditorium box office 
allocation of propane gas used The report by the conferencelargely for drying crops and committee report, which givesheating rural homes, and the legislative intent, said the
"middle distillate" petroleum 
allocation system should consid­products -chiefly diesel oil, jet er the need for independent oilfuel and home heating oil. 
operators to stay in business.

The comprehensive allocation The action came as Senatebill requires that when the base Democratic Leader Mike Mans­price and costs of oil and field accused Nixon of waitingproducts go up, they can be too long to send Congresspassed on, dollar for dollar, to emergency energy legislation,the ultimate consumer. 
but predicted the Senate wouldThat provision takes over to waste no time in passing thethat extent the work of the Cost 

· 
Jim 
'63 
Chuck '65

1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
Drummond Bros. Beer 
If you like Coor's--this is what you've been missing. 
A Distillery-Golden Exclusive From West of the Mississippi 
'NEW MONTEZUMA TEQUILA· 112 gallon for 
• $12.22 

EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 
10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE 



CLASSIFIED ADS 

WANTED 
Need 4 tix Wisconsin game. Will pay $$. Call 3877. 
One roommate Nd Apts. 2nd semester. Call Jimbo 283-1552. 
HOUSEPARENTS: married couple perferably without children to live in Girls Group Home. Room and board + monthly salary. Husband may work or study outside the home. Time off is provided. Call Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233· 
9491. 
Need 2 tix Wisconsin hockey, either night. Call Dick 234-3285. 
bassist and drummer needed for rock band. call t. i. 1531 for info. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride from New Haven area on Nov. 25. Call Matt 8417. 
Need ride to Cleveland. Can leave after game Thursday. Call Greg 7865. 
Need ride to Bowling Green, Ohio for weekend of Nov. 17. Call Rick 233-3945. 
Ride wanted to Mpls-St. Paul , ieace 11-17, reurn 11-25. Will share expenses, driving. Connie 3857. 
Ride needed to Cleveland Fri. Morn. Call HHJohm 282-1568. 
Need ride to Cincy for thanksgiving. Can leave Wed. Nov. 21 at 3. Call 4773. 
Ride to Traverse City. This FRi. Call 6586. 
Need ride on Fri. Nov. 16 to Central Illinois area CPeroia, -ISU) Jim 1487. 
FOR SALE 
Turquoise Jewelry from the southwest-great for SXmas gifts. Call 8373 r drop by 209 Pangborn. 
Advent Dolby. Almost new. Muust sell. Call Mike 1487. 
2 GA tix Air Force cheap. Call John 232-8112. 
5 Air Force GA tlx. Jill 5311. 
Student hockey tlx avallble for Wisconsin. Call 232-5312. Make offer. 
FOR RENT 
6 BR house just rennovated wall to wall carpet. completely furnished , fireplace. For grad students only. Jan semester or immediate occupation. AI Brasseur 289-2461. 
NOTICES 
Typing experienced in theses, dissertations, essays, term papers. Cal 232-9061. 
Euprope! Take advantage of the specealists, British Air­ways, BOAC. Group inquiries welcome. Call 234-2098. 
Good tix for Thurs. Nov. 15 and Fri. Nov. 16 performances of godspell at Morris civic are avlaible at the student union ticket office, 2nd floor iaforutne, . 11:30-5 daily. THANKSGIVING BUSES TO PITTSBURGH FRI. NOV. 16 5 PM FROM ST. MARY'S CALL 5111. WED. 21 NOON FROM CCE. CALL 1786. BOTH REURRN SUNDAY 25 5 pm. 
California club Xmas flight sighnups travel agency Nov. 9­27 !208.50' 
-will do typing : term papers manuscrips, etc. Call 233-6909. 
SMC Girls: Take the Greyhound to Chicago for Thanksging. Buses depart Fridays from NO at 4:55. 2 Buses return Sundays. Call Tom Boyer 272-1807 for in· formation. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost Seiko watch. No band. 2 weeks ago. Rewar~. 3380. 
Lost brown wallet 8th fofloor flanner. Call Ed. 1506. Reward. 
PERSONALS 
Happy Birthday to you Happy Birthday to you Happy Birthday, Mrs. Kloos the elder, Happy Birhtday to you. 
Wild man: we doubt your virility love, 
wild woman, shirley, 
al. 


Wednesday, November 14, 1973
the observer 

Gridiron polls:the same old story 
Visions of a Sugar Bowl ap-Coach John McKay's club is Penn State was voted sixth was ninth with Nebraska tenth in his placekicking and kickoff chores pearance against Alabama have listed number ten in UPI voting, again after rallying to defeat North both. against the Panthers. 
been tantalizing many of those also. associated with Notre Dame's But beyond the Cornhuskers and 
football program since last the TroJ·ans, tht'ngs remat'ned Saturday's 31-10 victory over the exactly the same from last week's Pitt Panthers, but yesterday the voting. Irish received the same settling news they've been receiving evey Ohio State, 35-(). winners over 
Monday for the past three weeks: Michigan State, is in firm possession of the top spot with 
No change in the top seven in 
Alabama (idle last weekend)
either of the nation's major college second and Oklahoma (31-3 victor football polls. 
over Missouri) third. 
There were two shakeups in the Michigan downed lllinois, 21-6, to top ten this week, but both involved hang onto fourth placeinthe voting, lower echelon teams in the rating and ND's 31-10 conquest of ex­surveys compiled by United Press plosive Pittsburgh left the Irish in International and Associated Press. charge of the fifth rung for another Nebraska, a 31-7 winner over Iowa week, at least. State last weekend, moved from 11th to tenth in both polls, and AP RatingsSouthern Cal, a 27-26 victor over 
The Top Twenty. with first·place
Stanford, fell to tenth in AP, where 
\'Otes in parentheses. season records
the Trojans had been rated ninth and total points. Points tabulated on 
the previous week. basis of ?.0-IS-16-14-12-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1: 1. Ohio State (o5) ......... 8·0·0 1.130 ~-Alabama (13) ....... 8-0-0 l.OfiR 3. Oklahoma (I) 7-0.1 966
Sailors take 

4 Michigan (I). . 9-0.0 634 
5. 
!';otre Dame (1) . 8-0.0 767 

6. 
Penn State (I) . .. . 9-0-0 658



fourth place 

7. Lout:;i:;na State .. 8-0-0 ST.! ~-UCLA . fi.I·O 4fi.q 
The ;~otre Dame sailing team 9. So. CaiJfornia . 7·1·1 407 10. Nebraska . 7-1·1 :!5~
closed out its fall season last 
tl. Texas . &-2-0 Jill weekend by finishing 4th out of 10 1~. Texas Tech 8-1·0 176 
schools at the Area "C" 
13. 
Arizona State . 8·1·0 167 

14. 
Missouri . . 7·2·0 115


eliminations in Chicago. 
15. Ho'ls!on. . 8-1·0 112 The top three finishers in this 16. Tennessee .. &-2-0 80 
17. ~lianu. Ohio !>0-0 71
regatta go on to compete in the big 
18. Kansas &-2·1 44
intersectional Timme Angstem 19. Arizona ... 8-1·0 16 regatta sailed over Thanksgiving W. !';o c-arolina St. . 6-3·0 15 
Others recei\·mg votes. hsted alpha·
in Chicago. 
betically · Aubu ·n. Colorado. East Car· 
Wisconsin edged out Notre Dame oiina. Kent State. Oklahoma State. Pitt. 
Tuhne. Stanford.
for the third place qualifying position by 2 points, 89 to 91, with Oskosh and Iowa taking the top two ND crew beginsqualifying berths. 
Light, Clukey winds bothered the 

memorial lund
Irish skippers, but freshman Paul Makielski (with Senior AI Con-The Notre Dame Rowing Club stants as crew) managed to take Saturday announced the formation low point skipper honors in "B" of the Steven Buccini Memorial 
division. Another freshman sailor, Fund as a gesture of remembrance Buzz Reynolds, along with Junior towards the 1973 ND graduate who Bruce Marek shared skippering died this summer as the result of du'ies in "A" division. injuries sustained in an automobile 
'he fall season was a rebuilding accident in Richmond, Va. r· ·iod for the Irish sailors after Buccini was a member of the · · actuation took a host of ex-rowing club for four years prior to k rienced sailors from last year. his grduation, and he served as But with the solid performances of club treasurer during his final two the two freshman skippers, plus years at Notre Dame. the added experience of a heavy Club officers have already an-regatta schedule this fall, the nounced the re-designation of the 
uture looks good for the Irish traditional Oarsman of the Year boaters. The spring competition Award as the Steven Buccini starts in March and culminates <?~'Ortfie Y"ear-AWard,..an.Q with the North American cham~ proceeds from the newly­pionship during the su~r established memorial fund will be months. / used for the purchase of a new 
The team will hera its fall eight-oared shell which will be election banquet /on Friday, named in Buccini's memory. November 30.":;~ the following Contributions to the fund can be Saturday the~{ub-.;.,ill have its own mailed to: The Steven Buccini regatta_ tl)e' Donahue Cup, on St. Men1orial Fund, c-o the Rowing Joe Lak.e' for all freshman and Cldub, P .0. Box 55, Notre Dame, 
novice ,iailors. In ., 46556. 
Carolina State, 35-29, and idle LSU was seventh. UCLA 27 7 · 0
, -wmners over regon, was eighth in both polls, and USC 
UPI Ratings 
The United Press Internatior:al's 
Board of Coaches major college
football ratings with number of first 
place votes in parentheses: 
Points I. Ohio State ;1-0 (23)....... . .335 2. Alabama 8-0 (9) .................310 3. Oklahoma 7-0-1 (2) ..............261 4. Michigan 9-0 .....................246 
5. 
Notre Dame 8-0 (I) ..............197 

6. 
Penn State 9-0 ...................171 


7. LSU 8-0 ..........................146 
8. UCLA 8-1.. ..................... 100 
9. 
Southern Cal 1-1·1 .. .. .. . . ... 62 

10. 
Nebraska 1-1·1.. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. 33 II. Texas 6-2 ...................... 17 


12. 
Texas Tech 8-1 .. .. . .. .. . 14 

13. 
Arizona State Il-l . 13 14. Houston 8-1 .. 8 


15. 
Missouri 7-%.... ... .. . . 5 

16. 
Miami. 0. 9-0 . . . . . . . . . 4 17. (Tie) Arizona 8·1 3 

17. 
(TiP) Kan!':ls 6-2·1 . 3 


19. (TH.') Tulanl' 7-1 . 2 19. (Tw) Tennessee G-2 2 
Wisconsin tops hockey voting 
Wisconsin's powerful Badgers, undefeated and untied through the first six games of the 1973 ice hockey season, held undisputed possession of the number one position in this week's college hockey poll, conducted by radio station WMPL in Hancock, Mich. 
The Big Red Badgers, 6-0 on the season, received nine out of 10 possible first place votes, and 98 out of 100 possible points on the voting scale. 
Listed behind the top-ranked Badgers were Michigan Tech (4-1­1), Michigan State (4-o), and Cornell ( 0-0). 
Notre Dame, last week's number two team, dropped a pair of games to Michigan State last weekend and dropped to fifth place in the poll with a 1-2-1 mark. 
Following the Irish were St. Louis (3-Q), Boston University and Boston College (both 0-Q), Denver (2-2), and Harvard (0-0). 
The fifth-place Irish will get a chance to improve their status this weekend, when they host Wisconsin for a two-game, home-opening series at the ACC ice rink. 
_  The standings:  
·  Pis.  
I. Wisconsin (9) &-o..  . . . .....98  

%'-Michigan Tech. HI. ............77 3. Michigan State (I) 4-0 ...........68 4.Corneuo.o .....................58 
5. 
Notre Dame H·l ......, .......49 

6. 
st. Lows a.o · · ·............47 


~: ::~:~~~~~-G-O· ---.. ----....-: 
9. 
Denver%-%..... . . : ::. : ::: :~ 

10. 
Harvard o.o ....................20 



I 
I 
I 
I 
! 
\ 


ATTENTION SOPHS & JUNIORS 
I 
i 
Due to graduation, the position of 
STUDENT UNION DIRECTOR 
will be vacated. Anyone wishing to apply for the position for next semester and next year, 
please come to 
'·-,_ Student Government Offices 
-~ ........ 
·" 
._...!J~ 

The fifth-ranked Irish will gain a brief respite from the pressure of polls and bowls this weekend, when they are idle before tangling with Air Force on Thanksgiving Day. 
After a day off on Monday, the Notre Dame squad resumed practice yesterday with a brief awards session and then an in­troduction to the Air Force team. 
Senior placekicker Bob Thomas was awarded the Pitt game ball for 
"We'll work through Thursday on Air force," said ND head coach Ara Parseghian, as he eyed his schedule for the rest of the week. 
"We'll be off over the weekend, and then we'll go back to our Air Force preparation for the Thur­sday game. We'll work on natural g~ass as much as we can, but we will have to watch weather con­ditions in order to have the stadium in its best shape for the final home game."' 



THE ATTIC 
(above Roma's) 
...is open Wed. nights 
BY THE PITCHER

PETE SNAKE 9-1 
TEQUILA SUNRISE RUM & COKE 

Drop in Tonite! 219'12 N. MicH. 

SEND FLOWERS TO TELL SOMEONE HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT THEM. 
· within walking distance from the campus -Teleflora 
The Posy Patch 
(In Roseland) 

FLOWER AND GIFT SHOP 
409 Dixieway North, 
272-6363 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46637 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS THANKSGIVING AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money. too. over the increased standby air fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE­ ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU  
TO  WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
Cleveland, Ohio Detroit, Mich.  $13.45 . $25.60 $10.50 I $19.95  1:45pm 3:50pm  7: lOpm 8:55pm  
NV, NV ~~1"$74.90 1Ph1Aadelphi.,< P:'\~~.60 $67.65  1:45pm 1:45pm  8:45pm 6:00pm  
wys~,Df'/"'  S33.80  $64.25  7:45pm  11:15pm  

Ask· you~ agent about additional departures and return trips . !(]i'l'
(;, ~.~I " Greyhound Bus Terminal 21b West Monroe 2876541 


Tue·sda.y__ ~ Wednesday afternoon ·,-~~v n Greyhound 1-5 p.m. 
A change for the better 





