OD The IDslde 
GSU candidates announce platforms.....page 6 
Ellsberg. takes the stand ... Page 5 

Vol. VII, No. 112 
------------------------------------------------...............~ 
~ 
I
, 
j J 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
April 11, 1973 


New HPC constitution defeated 

by David Rust Senior Reporter 

Notre Dame's residence halls voted last night through the hall Presidents Council to throw out by the narrowest possible margin the constitution the hall presidents had agreed at their last meeting to present to their halls, and in another vote decided to retain the present HPC constitution. 
This last vote took the HPC completelyout of the constitutional government issue, at least for the present. 
Although the second vote was a simple consensus of the hall presidents, with 11 ayes, eight nays and two abstentions cast, the first vote was merely a recapitulation. by each hall president of how his hall council had voted on the constitution. 
With each hall council given one vote, the final tally was 11 for, eight against and three undecided. Proponents of the new constitution would have needed one more vote to obtain the two-thirds vote necessary for ratification of any constitutional change. 
Dillon Hall cast the deciding eight vote against passage of the constitution, and it was Dillon Hall President Mike "Animal" Cunningham who proposed retention of the present HPC Council constitution and an end to involvement in further disputes over student government constitutions. 
Cunningham, who had been the unofficial leading spokesman for sentiment against further HPC in­volvement in student government during the Council's month-long debate on the issue, told the Council it was the "same motion I presented a week ago." 
That motion was defeated at the HPC's last meeting by a narrow vote. This final action by the HPC ended a debate that had 
begun last October, when the HPC disagreed with student government officials over the amount of funds allocated to the Council from the government treasury and the method of allocation. 
It was at this time that some hall presidents began to voice their belief that the HPC was the most representative body on campus and should be allowed a 
greater-to-majority role in student government. 
This sentiment crystalized into sharp controversy during the March student government presidential and vice presidential elections, when student government veteran junior Jim Clarke ran with Chris Singleton on the platform to abolish the whole structure in favor of the HPC. 
After a primary election and then a controversial runoff, the "blank ballot" vote counted 52 per cent of votes cast, widely intepreted as a mandate for then­president Robert Kersten's government, against 29 per cent for Clarke. 
All elections were suspended in a government declared "martial law" while a "committee of in­
: Hall Presidents discuss constitution veto teres ted students," including 'Kersten and Clarke, hammered out a compromise constitution which would give thel liPC legislative power over the government budget. This copstitution, soon labeled Constitution A by The Observer, found itself opposed by Clarke's Constitution B at a meeting of the HPC. Compromise Constitution C, written up by Grace Hall President Kevin Griffin and Pangborn Presidnet Pat McLaughlin, failed to get the necessary consensus vote in the Council to pass it on to the various hall councils for ratification, and a committee of the HPC was appointed to draw up Constitution D. It was this constitution which finally won approval from the HPOC at its meeting prevous to last :night's vote, and, after an effort which failed to get the Student Life Council to interview by calling a "Constitutional Convention" it was Constitution D which went down in the hall councils. Following the vote HPC Executive Coordinator Steve Jesselnick asked the presidents of the halls whose councils had chosen not to ·ratify the constitution to explain their councils' reasoning behind their decision. Cunningham spoke for most of the hall presidents whn he said that 'his council members believed "The HPC's business is in the hall." While echoing Cunningham, other presidents added different reasons. "They thought the constituion gave this body too 
much power, that there were no effective checks," explained Howard Halle President Robert Chong. 
"They couldn't understand the titles or positions, and they thought i:he HPC was trying to cram this down . their throa ·ts," said Keenan Hall President Charlie 
Cardillo. 
President Joseph Powers of St. Joe's Hall told the HPC his council had considered that "the various campus factions, including student government, had gotten together to draw up Constitution A, "and that its rejection by one of the factions was "wr • 
Jesselnick urged the HPC members to. forget the issue which began the whole debate. 
"Every Hall President should ,somehow in his mind develop a proposal so that next year when we go to the SLC for funds we know what we want to do," said Jesselnick. "Just because this constituion didn't pass is no reason for us to do nothing." 
"I am fully in support of the Councils decision not to involve itself further in student government," con­tinued Clarke. "Any compromise would cause the HPC to lose the i'"entity i has built up for itself over the past five years." 
He announced his intention not to pay the student activities fee next year, "excpetfor $7.00 to the Student Union." He1urged all students to do the same. 
Judicial Board meets 
The Student Government Judicial Board rejected last night a petition from Matt Kubik, Rick Gering and 
T.C. Treanor to give consideration to the con­stitutionality of a constitutuional convention, judging the present constitution "valid, effective and legal." 
But the Board did recommend that the present student government president consult the Hall Presidents Council on the advisability of adding amendments giving the HPC a "formal voice in student government and control over a portion of the budget." 
The Board also extended the terms of office for present student government president Robert Kersten, vice-president Dennis Etienne and the Board of Commissioners until April 30, or until the conclusion of government elections, which ever comes first. 
President Kersten was directed to call the Board of Commissioners into session immediately to make plans for student body-wide elections, and it barred the Board from delegating any of its authority to run the election to any other new or existing board or com­mission 
The government is to continue normal operations in the interim. 


McKiernan wins SBG election uncontested 
by Leo Buchignani staff reporter 

Late last night the final St. Mary's student govern­ment election vote was tabulated, ushering in the first set of officers under the new Student Board of Governance system. 
The Board, which is a one-year experiment in a new form of student government, was co-designed by Barb McKiernan, its newly elected chairman. 
Under the St. Mary's election system, a student must abstain or vote for one of the candidates in a contested reeeeace, and m must abstain or vote yes or no in one­candidate races. 
Lisa Kinney, who assisted iii supervising the elec­tion, revealed that an abstention vote counts as. a part of the vote total of the person gettmg the majority of the rest of the vote. Barb McKiernan further explained that the option to abstain presented on the ballot was for those who feltt they did not know enough about the candidates, but who wished their votes to wount with the selection of the majority of voters. 
In the only contested election, Monica Stallworth's 281 votes were not enough to overcome 27 abstentions and 414 votes for Joanne Garrett, giving Joanne the Student Affairs Commissioner spot. 
Barb McKiernan, running unopposed for Chairman of the Student Board of Governance, won over­whelming approval with 601 yes votes, 15 no votes, and 99 abstentions. 
Tess Lehman coasted in on a 569 yes-vote with 14 no­votes and 154 abstentions, taking the position of Academic Affairs Commissioner. 
Anne Smith had no trouble in gaining the Hall Life Commissionership with 617 yes tes to 18 no votes and 83 abstentions. 

New • Student Board Chairman Barb McKiernan predicts success in coming .vear. 
Sue Oglesbee, who headed the election comm1ssion, 
asserted that some ballots had to be invalidated either 
because the poll-watchers failP.dto initaal them or 
because the voter left the ballot blank. However, the 
number of ballots invalidated was insignificant with ­
respect to the final vote count. 

Sue also emphasized the absence of any difficulty 
with campaigning rules. Gurthermore, the votes for 
each candidate and each hall were counted 
twice in the presence of candidate's representatives to insure fairness. 
Junior Barb McKiernan stated that the basic goal of the four new officers was to make the the newly created Student Board of Governance effective. The purpose of the Board, which she co-desegned, is to distrillute the duties and powers of the Student Body President and Vice-president. Barb feels that in the 
p ast "the SBP had to decide whether to be a good President or to go to school." 
The Board system divides the overwhelming duties 
of the SBP into . four parts. The Student 
Board of Governance Chairnance Chairman, who 
coordinates and directs the Board is Barb's new office. 
-. Sophomore Tess Lehman is newly elected Academic 
Affairs Commissioner. She will be the student body 
representative to the administration and will work 
basically "in planning the future of SMC students." 
Joanne Garrett, newly elected Student Affairs 
Commissioner, will chair a committee of the four class 
presidents at SMC. · She will have the job of "coor­
dinating the various classes in order to bring student 
government closer to each student." 
She further hopes to bring more lectures, concerts, 
and movies to SMC, and to bring information on ac­
tivities to both campuses. Sophomore Joanne, 
whose race \Was the only contested election, 
expressed her thrilled appreciation to her supporters. 
Sophomore Anne Smith, who will be the new Hall 
Life Commissioner, must coordinate the four hall 
presidents. She hopes "to bring the halls and student 
government closer together so that they can do more 
for each student." 
Bar'Q McKiernan predicted great success for the 
coming year, expressing rea.diness to take the reins of 
student government which will be turned voer within a 
neek 



April II, 1973
the observer
2 

warld briefs 
\l'\ l!li:l Nt•w York Timt's 

Phnom Penh -The United States began airlifting fuel into Phnom Penh, the besieged capital of Cam­bodia. The first planes were scheduled to bring in only military fuel, American officials said, but they suggested that later flights might carry commercial fuel if efforts to ease the critical shortage failed. 
Washington --President Nixon sent Congress a comprehensive trade bill that would give him sweeping new authority both to raise and lower United States tariffs and other trade barriers as a prelude to for­thcoming international negotiations. The President said his new "trade reform act" calls for the most important changes in more than a decade in America's approach to world trade. 
Washington --The Soviet Union is expected to buy sizable quantities of grain again this year, though not as much as in 1972, the Department of Agriculture said. 
The Russian purchases in the World Markets are expected to reach about 14 million tons, or about half of last year's purchases of 28 million tons. The United States sold 18 million tons of that grain. 
an campus taday 
1 pm-5 pm --daily adoration of the blessed sacrament 
6:30 
pm --meeting, flytng club ground school, 210 o'sha~ 

6:30 
pm --mini-course, car mechanics room 127 nieuwland science hall ' 7 pm --meet your major, economics, 209 7 pm --meet your major, speech and. drama, 103 o'shag 8 pm --meet your major, ecomonics, 209 o'shag 


8 pm --philosophy perspective lecture, "is there a problem about meaning?" by prof. jerrold katz, lib. audt. and lounge 
8 pm and 10 pm -french movie, "the um­
brella  of  cherbourg",  eng.  audt.,  ad­ 
mission $1.00, patrons free  
9 pm  -­ meet  your  major, theology,  119  
o'shag  
8 pm  -­ transcendental  meditation,  ar­ 
chitecture audt.  

Schaper gives lecture on sophisticated marketing 
Schaper said. He noted that small 
by ~d Ellis 
Puritan Sportswear Corporation President Lloyd S. Schaper told the Notre Dame Marketing Club last night that marketing was the 
"critically sensitive sophistication" in modern business and that product presentation was the critical factor in making a leadership company in a com­petitive field. 
Schaper and Puritan Vice­

: 
,. 
I r sophistication."
I 
McNamara spoke in the latest of the Paul D. Gilbert Lecture Series, 

r 
sponsored for many years by the South Bend clothing store, Gilbert's and its president, Paul Gilbert. 
Schaper argued that most companies have reached a com­mon denominator in areas such as production, economy, cost of raw materials and labor, etc. He said that sophisticated marketing was the factor that determined 
the success or failure of companies in a competitive system. 
Schaper also contended that marketing was a "uniquely American sophistication," and that, for some re<~.son )·foreign
T 
companies looked to America for marketing skills, even though they could equal American business in all other fields of production. 
Domestically two "dramatic shifts" in American retail patterns 
have recently caused companies to rethink their marketing strategy, especially in the case of apparel companies like Puritan, specialty stores are dying out, to 

be replaced by department and 
chain stores. 
Also, he pointed out companies 
are being asked by consumer 
demand to provide more depth in a 
very few styles today, 
whereasformerly a wide variety of 
styles was demanded. 
The Puritan president compared 
his company's marketing to "the 
sex life of an elephant." 
very high level among much noise and confusion." 
McNamara, a 1956 graduate of Notre Dame, spoke before Schaper and encouraged students to join the apparel industry, saying there was a "much greater career op­portunity" in this area than in 'safer' areas." 
He also echoed the public spirited advice of lecture series sponsor Paul Gilbert that student should plan to "give something of themselves" after they had become successful in their business ventures. 
Gilbert introduced the speakers with a short speach asking students to carry with them a sense of social consciousness after they leave school. 
"One of your goals," the Mid­west's most successful apparel retailer stated, "should be to be able to say, 'I have done more than go out and line my pockets. I have paid back what I owe to my community.' " 
Gilbert pointed to the lecture series as an example of this sort of 

1723 So. Benet Ave. Jim -class of '63 Chuck -ci"S! of '6! Call by Friday afternoon tor weekena Kegs 272-9800 
Plan ahead for An Tostal • Get your FULL beer cans here! A Special on Widmer Wines


NEW!

* Discounts Avail le * 
activity. "It's a great part of out· job at Gilbert's " he said. 
In other activity at last night's dinner meeting in the Hotel La Salle, Marketing Club President Jayar Daily presented plaques on behalf of the club to Schaper and McNamara for their talks, and to Professor Wesleey Bender on the occasion of his retirement. 
Gilbert received a fountain pen desk set in appreciation of his "tremendous program of speakers." 
Daily also announced next year's Marketing Club officers: president, Jerry Samaniego; vice­president, Steve Hornig; secretary, Sharon Carey; and treasurer, Ken Wolbeck. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 

April 12-14 
12th--Concert: Cannonball Adderly, Richard Hatcher, Charissma Dancers, Julius Farmer Quintet, The Bill Nix Trio and the CJF fudges' combo. 
Stepan Center 7:'0 pm $5 at the door. 1'th--Opening Session of the CJF--7:'0 Stepan 14th--Afternoon Session: 1:'0 Stepan·· 
7:'0 pm Evening Session. 14th--Midnight Jam Session with CJF Judges' Combo 
Tickets: All Session ticket $6.00 Friday, Sat. afternoon, Saturday night, and lam session: $,, $2, $4, $2, respectively. 
Dining hall sales Wednesday.  
Judges:  Dan Morgenstern, Gil Evans, Jimmy Owens, Joe Farrell, Hubert Laws, Roy Haynes, Alvin Batiste.  
Bands:  Malcolm X, Texas Southern, Ohio State, Ohio U., Tennessee St., Wisconsin at Madison, Indiana U., M.I.T., Michigan, Governer's State, Triton College, Bowdoin College, Notre Dame, Indiana State.  

Tickets available at CAC office and American Nat. Bank and Branches 

The Umbrellas of Cherbourg 

by Demy Wed. 8 & 10 pm Eng. Aud. $1, Patrons free 

says 
When It comn to pianos. w will do just about anything. , If .,. can't ~ It, w will try to flnll someone who ~­
Call me now for an appointment 174-9335 
Quality Tunlna and Repairing 


)'\pril 11, 1973 the observer 
3 




1mages of Women' course planned 
by David Rust either as a required theology credit hoping that "Images of Women" terdisciplinary approach was -Woman Studies Program," said Senior Reporter or a collegiate seminar elective.. will be "the first steop" toward adopted, explained Broe. Dr. Moore. "The problems we'll be establishing a formal Woman "Besides," she continued, "our How did Professor Moore sum up.
1 

An in terna tionally known discussing are those of men as well · Studies Program. women here are scattered in every her experience in the course these 
theologian and a·Jocally prominent as women," said Fiorenza. "There "Both our department chairmen field of education. With an in-last two semesters? 
collegiate seminar faculty ' is no such thing as a 'human study were delighted about the idea," terdisciplinary approach we can "It's been personally very 
member are introducing the of man."' said utilize all of thei resources." rewarding," said Moore, "both for 
course "Images of Women in In order to get some idea of how • me and the students. Many are 
Theology and Literature" to the close next semester's class will be now evaluating their own attitudes 
Notre Dame undergraduate to the limit size of 50 students, Broe and lifestyles. 
curriculum next semester, laying and Fiorenza would like to meet "Of course, it strikes several of what they see as a "solid in-with all interested in taking the them a mixed blessing," she 1terdisciplinary basis" for a woman course tomorrow afternoon bet-continued. "They're finding that Studies Program at Notre Dame. ween 2:30 and 4:30 in either G37 or I'm not the person I used to be." 
The two professors are assistant G185, both offices located under This kind of experience could be a 
Theology professor Elizabeth the Memorial Library. tremendous boon to the whole 
Fiorenza and collegiate seminar If the number of students who process of coeducation here at 
instructor Mary Lynn Broe. Both are able to attend the interview . Notre Dame." 
will be teaching the course as session is smaller than 50, Is her course valuable 
assistant professors next year. registration will be open to all academically( 
Doctors Fiorenza and Broe other students until the limit is "I would think ayone going into 
described the new course as asking ····· ··· reached. history would have to have this 
the question, "Does the image of :P'rofessor Carole Moore and Mary Lynn discuss new "Images of Women" will be kind of background," said Moore 
women reflect her real situation courses. building on the foundation laid by . "to see what the other 51 percent
and her own reaction to it, or is it Fiorenza, who originated the various people in the ad-"History of American Women," was doing all that time." 
an imitation and justification of idea for the course, had first ministration that continuation of taught by Professor Carole Moore "History of American Women" 
accepted and defined cultural tentatively titled it "Sex Roles in the course depends completely and now finishing its second whose enrollment climbed 
values of the time?" Literature and theology." upon student interest." semester at Notre Dame. significantly in its second 
Readings for "Images of The class will meet three times a "We'll be critically evaluating "History has to be an integral semester, will be offered under 
Women" will rarfge from Genesis to modern theological authors, and from Grimm's Fairy Tales  week, with a lecture by Fiorenza, a lecture by Broe and a small-groupdiscussion each week.  our efforts as we progress," said part of any process to obtain a Moore again next semester. Broe. :,....~........PI_il__._._...........................iiiliit Fiorenza said interest natinally ~  
through George  Bernard Shaw's  "We  won't  be  pressing  any  has helped to justify the course.  i  
plays to the poetry of Sylvia Plath.  particular  point  of  view,"  said  She is chairman of the Woman's  
"This is  a course  that will cut  Broe.  "Neither will it be a _'jock'  Task  Force  of  the  American '  
across barriers," explained Broe, who will begin her fourth term at Notre Dame next year. "It will be as exciting for men as it will for women."  course. There will be alot of reading to do, and a lot of em­phaasis will be put on active participation."This "Active participation"  Academy of Religion, a national organizatign of teachers in the field of religion. "One of the main points of the ' women's movement is to integrate  ITALIAN &BRITISH SHAG & LAYER CUTS HAIR & SCALP ANALYSIS  
Dr. Fiorenza,  a  native of Ger­ ·  includes both discussion in class  an  understnading  of  human  Sam 8elardinella  
many  who  holds  a  licentia  in  and  the  completion  of  three  education  with  life,"  said  Mike McDonald  
theology  from  the  University of  required projects.  The projects  Fiorenza.  "It's not something you  FOR APPOINTMENTS  
Wurzburg and a doctorate from the University of Munster, and who is  may take the form of anything from research papers to meetings  have in your head and is unrelated to anything else."  CALL  188-6661  
the quthor of the book Women in the church, emphasized that the  with women in the South Bend area to discuss image-and role-related  To emphasize its relation to all facets of ecucation, and to free  See Our New MEN'S DEN  
course was interdisciplinary.  problems.  itsel~ fro~ the threat that .woman  ::~7,:v,!~:·~lothes  
"Images of Women" can count  Both _Fiorenza  and  Broe  are  st';ld1es might become an Isolated  2303 s. MIAMIs. BEND  JUST _N.  OF  IUSCHIAUM'S  I'HAIMACY 

Exchange agreementthmg at the Unim,;ty, the ---------~~--~-..
in-.... ...... 
elizninates extra fees 
by Jim Lindsay I Mary's administrations in Staff Reporter February. The only extra fees to 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's be paid will be those charged by students taking courses in the co-individual classes, such as labs, exchange progra~ for the Fall special music courses, or student 1973 semester will not pay any 1 teaching programs. additonal exhange fees, according I Notre Dame Registrar Sullivan to Notre Dame Registrar Richard noted however that the exchange Sullivan. limit ~f 3000 cr~it hours for each 
The decision to eliminate the 1 institution will,,remain in effect. extra fees came as the reult of a Since the number of St. Mary's joint exchange agreement made students taking courses at Notre between Notre Dame and St. (continued from page 3) 
Beds are rentoved front Regina South 
• by Mike Baum transfers from this year's Senior Reporter Sophomore Class, the result, next 
St. Mary's students choosing year's Junior and Senior classes rooms last night had one fewer will number roughly 120 fewer halls to pick from as. the 120 beds of students. Regina South were removed from The closing of Regina South is the residence lists. purely temporary, according to 
The south wing of the former Mulaney, and in fact the wing may 
novitiate house and freshman be in use next year anyway. dorm has been dropped from the Regina has been traditionally a room pick lists to reflect a freshman and transfer student projected frop in enrollment at St. dorm, and if transfers over the 
Mary's next year. summer and into fall semester 
Dean of Students Katherine spproach anywhere near the Mulaney explained that the action average of approximately 50 was taken at this time to prevent students, Regina South will be 
the recurrance of a situation .opened one floor at a time to ac­similar to one involving Augusta comodate the increase. Hall earlier this year. Mulaney also explained that the The decision to close Augusta decline in enrollment was not the 
due to a lack of residents had been result of a drop in freshman ap­made after rooms had already (plications. The number of in­been assinged last year. The ' coming freshmen is not exactly, 
College had had to contact the but Mulaney termed an estimate in students involved -about forty­excess of 45pn the average for St.
1

during the summer and move them 1Mary's as "very conservative." into other dorms after the better · "We fluctuate between 1300 and· rooms had been assigned. 1500," Mulaney said, "ideally the 
"We don't want to have to do that best enrollment is around 1400, to the girls again," Mulaney said. whichMlows us to keep the lounges 
The drop in enrollment -close to and study rooms open." 120 students --is due to the Two years ago, representing the graduation of this year's Senior peak enrollment before '.'un­Class, an unusually large class, merger", St. Mary's listed 1508 and the equally unusual number of students living on campus. 
11 

Maybe a job isn't what you need. work which has until now been Maybe you need a career. done exclusively by lawyers. The 
And if you've ever been inter­environment is professional: law ested in law, that career could be firms, banks, and corporate legal just three months away. departments-and the work is 
1
The Institute for Paralegal challenging and stimulating with Training has placed over400 grad­plenty of opportunity for growth. uate Lawyer's Assistants in over 40 Lawyer's Assistants are in such 
1 
major cities from coast to coast demand that you can actually -after just three months of train­choose the city in which you want ing in Philadelphia. When you be­to work. All you have to do is call, come a Lawyer's Assistant, your toll-free, to find out what a career work will be unlike anything as a Lawyer's Assistant means to 
you've ever been exposed to, you. 
CALL COLLECT to Ms. Carol Brown 

(215) 925-0905 
OR WRITE: 

The Institute for Paralegal Training 
Dept. A, 401 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 19106 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Dan Thornton Business Manager Jerry Lutkus Dan BarrettEditor-in-Chief Executive Editor 

NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Joe Butler BUSINESS: 283-7471 Advertising Manager 
April 11, 1973 
The Circle Game or "Don't Pass Go" 
Last night, the HPC responding to the wishes of their hall councils, rejected the compromise constitution that they had approved last week. Immediately af­terwards, the Judicial Board ruled that the present constituion is tvalid and legal and the student government now in office will remain there until April 30. 
The vote of the HPC seems to be in compliance with the student vote in the last election. Only 30,per cent of the students voted for Jim Clarke and his proposal to abolish the SBP and SBVP and give power to the HPC. The proposal that Paul Tobin presented and passed before the HPC a week ago followed the same line as Clarke's and from all angles it appears that the students have said (twice now) what they don't want. They don't want to abolish the SBP'a position and give complete power to the HPC. So, what do they want? No one really knows. 
Where does everyone go from here? The circle has turned, the circuit has been completed and believe it or not, it's all back where it started from. Before the constitutional crisis began, the students were without a newly elected government and that's where they still stand today. 
Where to go? 

The Constitutional Convention has been heralded as the proper avenue, par­ticularly since the students have shown that they don't like· the\ constitutions that the politicians have offered. But the SLC made a wise move when they dicidedto steer clear of student politics. 
Idealistically, the convention is the best idea when considered in the realm of pure politics. But practically, the convention would tie student government into one big knot for next year. There is no way that a group of students, a large group that the convention would imply, could sit down and hammer out a constitution quickly. 
What Must Be Done 
What is imperitive now is an election and a constitutional amendmenl The Judicial Board called for the Board of Com missioners to handle a new presidential election. The Com­missioners should comply. The govern­ment in office now cannot be retained much longer. There is a certain responsibility for electing a government even if it is elected in an interim capacity to oversee constitutional revision. 

'I'he amendment, though, is what is most important right now. The students don't want the system that Clarke and the Hall Presidents want. Yet, it is very important that the HPC be given budgetary power. It is a somewhat half­assed move toward giving the HPC legislative power, but it is nonetheless a start. 
Pass Go and Collect $200 

Now that it's back to "Go" something has to be learned from this latest of constitutional crises and before student politics pass "Go" and collect their money, they should stop and realize what the students seem to be saying to them. 
The student body isn't entirely sure what it wants, but it does know what it doesn't want. 
The students don't like politicians playing games with their student government. They want to have a say in what goes on-even ifit means electing an oligarchy again. They don't want to abolish ·the executive wing of the government and they particularly don't seem to want the HPC having the power. 
If the politicians take the time to see what the students are saying perhaps something will be accomplished on this time aroung the bo~rd. 
The pli 
The politicians have had their fun. They•ve argued constitutions and executive power and legislative checks to their heart's content and now have discovered that the students don't care how the government is organized, but just that there is one. Its time to put together that governmenl 
Jerry Lutkus 

Rasini!ls View Late Report On Planet Boxo 
neil rasini 
It has occurred to me that on planet Earth, most of the world's ills and complaints can be reduced to people's competing for their own "potential." 
Women, blacks and other minority groups claim their potential has been sold short and they want what's coming to them. Citizens complain that the snooping, warlike, ubiquitous technocracy--trying to make the most of its own expanding potential-is doing a good job of limiting theirs. Scientists and psychologists are always propos~ing' great plans to enhance Man's potential, yet man still prefers to do 1t himself. 
Everyone is out to make the most of his own potential even if the entire society is seemingly in competition, and collectively un­beatable. 
Well, on planet Boxo <that's their new spelling) it seems they've carried this potential thing to its logical extreme. They've eliminated most of the world's ills and complaints simply by gradually eliminating most of the individual's potential. 
It wasn't easy to do--first came a massive multi-media public relations propaganda campaign for twenty years before the people would let them put chromosome-manipulators in the tap water--but it worked. ' Inhabitants of this proud planet used to look just like you and me and feel just as we do about potential. But nowad~ys, they've advanced far beyond. At age eight, a box-like shell invariably forms around the Boxite 's body, conveniently supplied with slots for all the vital potential information that all Boxites accept and exhibit. They are by degrees branded with their potential, so there's almost no com­petition, and fewer problems than we can imagine. Clever, no? 
Here's a typical conversation between a proud father and his eight­year-old son who has just been formally initiated into adult society: his box has begun formation. 
"Well, son, congratulations! Your limitless potential days are over! You're the new owner of a brand-new flesh-tone box. Welcome to adult society!" 
"I'm sure,yourbox has a long way to go before it reaches maturity ­like Grandpa's-but you have quite a start already. Your sex and 'middle class' slots are O.K., and there's your IQ index where your left shoulder used to be -that's a start. 
"And your reading speed is much more attractive than your right hip once was, and your social security number will in time prove far more useful than hair on your chest. 
"Still, of course you're young and people will still say disagreeable things to you like 'What do you want to be when you grow up, con­sidering your intelligence, economic status, and other already-slotted information?' But by the time you get to high school, we'll take care of that too." 
"How do you mean, dad." 
"Well, you remember your older brother, Corrugated? After he had his SAT index, NMSQT indes, Selective Service Number, and Civil Serivice scores slotted in his box, of course his potential was severely limited. 
"But right away, the State High School Authorities made him fill his 'College-Bound-Technical School Option Slot' (that's number 16, where your tummy used to be) and he picked the former and bright aquamarine lettering , 
"Then he went into liberal arts at the University which left him with several slots unplugged, as opposed to the envied engineering and science students who were pretty-well sure of their slot-fillers." 
"Yes, father, but Corrugated had his slots filled eventually." 
"Oh yes, long before he graduated his GPA-transcript slots began filling with more digits than you could count. And then the big decision came on slot no. 5669, and ever since that proud day, the word 'Clerk' has been proudly emblazoned in day-glow orange across his upper back--or where the back used to be before the box grew--and that's where it still is. Good ol' slot no. 5669." 
"Well how 'bout you, father? I remember when you changed jobs and had a new slot filled." 
"Yes, son, but you don't remember how difficult that was, I mean, how difficult it was to get those new slots filled--and I'll always have to walk around with my old "Accountant' filling no. 5669 with 'Math Teacher' in no. 5670. 
"It was just lucky my IQ and Credit Rating slots were good and I was still under the age limit. You knowwhat happens when you get old and gray, son, all slots become permanently fused-there's nothing left to fill, and all petential is declared officially realized. H I were Grandpa, I'd be proud, but he remembers way back to the pre-box days, and sometimes· feels like a lonely has-been." 
"You know dad, I can see what he means." 
"Well, you'll outgrow those emotions, son, and eventually see things the way I do. You know, the scientists plan to eventually perfect the system and have all slots filled at the time of birth. Boy, how does that sound?" 
"I don't know, dad, I don't know." 

IJarrytrudeau 
the observer 
AS II H/IT'fl;R. Or F/'IC:r; 
£ IH!Nk 1/:S 1"Hc FR55­
1HII'IKC:/ZS t..ll\13" 'U)JI/KCR 
lf)HO t31tl&" Tf/6 JC?€5r OF 
SOCietY 11 6115/S FO!<. 
SO!f&" KIIVP OF HOPF3 /INP rllfff/IN 1H€Ft!Tll/26. 
' 


/1()/A) 
The illustrious Day Editor: Mary Egan

fl&KC£?/if&/1 
Nite Editor:Aibert "insomnia" D'Antonio .,.,, / Assn't nite editor: Bill Brink Layout: Albert and Bill Typists: Diane Chermside, ?????? Pictures: Jerome Sports: Stan Nite Controller: Bob "Speed" Steinmetz Hi Mom! 
April 11, 1973 the observer 
Ellsberg takes the witness stand 
by Martin Arnold 

(C) New York Times 
Los Angeles, April 10-Daneil ]j:llsberg took the witness stand late this afternoon to tell as jury of ten women and two men why he disclosed the secret Pentagon papers. 
· But because of the late hour his testimony did not get into the substance of the case before the trial was adjourned until tomorrow. 
It was the 67th day of the Pen­
tagon Papers Trial, and it was 
nearly two years after he 
surrendered to the United States 
Attorney in Boston on June 28, 
1971. 
It was a-moment of high drama 
i~ crowded but nearly silent 
courtroom. 
Ells berg has served in the state Department and the Depfense Department and as a strategic war. 
But he then became a "dove," and through his release of the Pentagon Papers, his name became synonymous with the peace movement. 
Yesterday Russo was a con­trolled, almost precise witness. Once he wept, but his manner of testifying generally reflected careful preparation by his at­torney, Leonard I. Weinglass. 
Today Russo was different. 
Before the jury arrived, Weinglass moved to preclude the prosecutor from asking Russo questions about any of the "Top­Secret-Sensitive" documents in­volved in this case other than the 10 mentioned in the counts agaisnt the defendant. The motion was 
denied. 
On the witness stand, Russo, who 
had sat through the argument, 
ignored his lawyer's pleas. He said 
, volved in this case. Corporation at the time, but I did "I certainly wouldn't deny it. It nave the (BKT) Personal (UN­was an honor," he said. BKT) need to know." The Weinglass stared at the witness defendants admit taking the as if he had been slapped. papers from the Rand Corp. and 
At one point, Russo said, "I think xeroxing them. any American who cared about the He was aksed if the Rand Corp. country would consider it is official had known that he and Ells berg 
· duty to get these documents to the were copying the papers, and he Congress and the American replied, "I knew that the people at 
people." The remark was ordered stricken. 
on several other occasions, he was able to keep his remarks about "The American People" in the record. 
When he was aksed by David 'R. Nissen, the prosecutor, if he had had permission to see the documents, he said, "I never received permission. 1 don't know what kind of permission you are talking about." 
Russo was asked by Nissen if he had a "need to know" right to see 

analyst for the Rand Corp., all the that he might have helped Ellsberg the documents, and he answered. time concerned with the making of Xerox all his 20 documents in-"1 had no .r...elatio.n to the Rand
• • • • ·d.• 1
POUEler CElflClZeS ra lCa S during speech at Library 
. . by Greg Rowmskt Staff Reporter 
Richard Pourier, chairman of the Federated English Depart­ments at Rutgers University, criticized the radicals of today for their attempt to base radicalism on classical literature. He spoke on "The Aesthetics of Radicalism" last night in the Library Auditorium to an audience of about 
_
30
Pourier felt that the radical 
movement  has  not  failed  but  
rather  has  not  gotten  off  the  
ground.  Ste_eped  in  "~ire?  and  

boring rhetoric", the rad1cahsm of such authors as Marcuse, Mailer, and Jerry Rubin has failed to ask the difficult questions in regards to the role of art and sexuality, resulting in only a puny revolution of consciousness in the face of constantly increasing technology. 
He criticiz.ed the blanket con­demnation of that technology, preferring to see it as potentially 
helpful in reversing the very threats it has posed. 
Pourier went back to the writings of Spenser and Dante, early radicals in their own right, to show the ancient roots of today's version. 
He then dealt with more modern figures, especially the three listed above. 
A key source of conflict amon these authors is that concerning the innter man which, though ­buried and possibly corrupted by the modern world, still fights back "through the smog." 
Debate centers around who shall 
be carrying the torch on the inner 
self--a cultural elite, a minority 
untouched by the corruptions of 
capitalism, or the children of 
culture, uncorrupted, or even 
bored with the "lucre." Another conflict is that of the old society's ability to create such a new man who will tear down that society. 
Still, the radical must remain confident in the abilities of the inner man to somehow save nature from technology, said Pourier. 
Society has hopefully built itself a control of sorts, providing the leisure time to correct its abuses, said Pourier. 
Out of this leisure will come a new man, he said. This new man will require new instruments to analyze and understand technollgy instead of avoiding it as modern radicals have. Such a new man, a real radical, will then use new methods and data to right technology's wrongs. 
The lecture was sponsored by the 
Student Union Academic Com­
mission. 

Novak talks on 'America' 
"Ethnicity and the Democratic Left" was the topic of a lecture given by Michael Novak, Con­sultant on the Board of the Rockefeller Foundation, last night, in the Lafortune Student Lounge. Lounge. 
"Americanization turned out to be a rather vast repressive system," said Novak. "People were expected to be new men and new women when they came to this country." 
Novak explained that there is a kind of national style that each race, no matter how different, adopted when they came to this country. Novak continued, "Even movie stars have Anglo-Saxon names to become part of the 'American Dream'." Novak said that this is just one example of what he called "Americanization". 
Success in America 

"In order to succeed in America, 
we have to learn the American 
style," said Novak. "This is true 
throughout all American politcal 
and social life." 



NOTICE 

ALL STUDENTS PRESENTLY SIGNED UP FOR NOTRE DAME AVE. APT'S FOR SUMMER OR SEPT. 1, 1973 
CALL MR. FARMER 
272-7656 

Novak explained this by saying that there is a pressure on Catholics, and other groups in this country, because being Catholic is not being American. As an example, Novak said that people in America would talk about the late President John F. Kennedy saying, "You'd never know that he was a Catholic," and mean it as a compliment. 
Noval said that this is typcial of the way in which "Americanization" is drilled into each one of us and has made us believe that being American is just being American and no other nationality. 
Novak continued saying, "When 
people of different backgrounds 
and aspirations came together in 
this country, they developed a 
'third personality' that all 
Americans still hold." Novak said 
that it was those first Americand 
that came here that have really 
had a profound effect on the 
American way of thinking. 
"There is a tendency in America 
to renounce what is instinctive 
because it is less worthy," said 
Novak. 
"Thre is a peirod of two to three generations in which Americans recast their psyche in this way," Novak said. 
''There was a tender. among liberals to think that .e ideal world was a world in .ich we'd become enlightened," said Novak. "Liberals thought that the more we tended to reason, the more we would understnad each other." 
Novak said that there is a double metaphore here. "The mistaken notion is that we should be enlightened by the darkness of our own traditions," said Novak. 

Collegiate Notes 
Understand all subjects, plays and novels faster! Thousands of topics available within 4&·hours of mailing Complete with bibliography and footnotes Lowest Prices are 
GUARANTEED SEND $1.90 tor our latest descriptive Mail-Order Catalogue with Postage-Paid Order Forms too: 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH 1 N. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 706 Phila. Pa. 19107 HOT-LINE'(21Sl S6:t-.JZS.8 

THE MAGIC FLUTE 
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE Mozart's comic opera Produced in association with the St. Mary's College Music Dept. April 6,7,12,13,14 at 8:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium, St. Mary's 
Students ~ Faculty -Staff $2.00 Reservations: 284-4176 
Rand didn't know asbout it, so I 
would assume that he (BKT) Dr. 
Ellsberg) didn't have any 
bureacratic slips" giving him tha 
right. 

After the luncheon recess, 
Russo's exhilaration of the mar­
ning seemed to fade as the pr­
secutor asked him questions 
designed to show that, as a former 
Rand. employee, he knew that 
security regulations were being 
broken when he helped Ellsberg 
copy the papers. 
Documnets that Russo signed while working at Rand were ' flashed on a large screen in the 
courtroom. One, signed by him in 

t~:ing1 !:!th~8~a~\!~~:~~~J 
on security regulations. "I received numerous briefings'' on the securit~' of top secret 
documents, he told the jury. 
He was aksed if he had un­derstood what he had signed, and he answered, "Not really, no. understood these had to be filled out if I wanted to be employed, but this (the security statements) gets right to the nature of what we are talking about." 
The defense contedns that at the most the defendants broke security teguations of the Rand Corp. and not the law. There are no laws, in fact, governing the release of documents merely becuase they are classified; there are only executive orders. 
The witness succeeded in 
making that point to the jury 
several time. But Nissen's cross 
examination dealt almost entiely 
with the theft counts, which the 
defense considers the most 
troublesome. 
Dr. Ellsberg is charged with five espionage counts, five theft counts and one conspiracy count. He fkces a possible 105 years in prison and a $111,000 fine. 
Ellsberg was the 4oth witnesss in this case and the 26th defense witness. He started his testimony on the 67th day of the trial. 
Looking for a good place to buy your wines? 

Choose from over 750 different wines at THE WINERY. Large selection of California Wines. 
We offer Many Spec1als. CHATEAU LES TEMPLIERS '64 CHATEAU LEOUILLE LAS CASES '67 7.50 
WILD IRISH SPARKLING ROSE 1.75 CHILEAN WINE 2.38 





THE WINERY 
2426•Lincolnway West, Mishawaka 

Phone 259-904~ . Imported Beers Case Discounts 
ABBEY IS HAPPY to announce our new budget mot~l in 
South Bend. Lovely rooms at low cost. $10.00 single $12.50 double Friendly happy atmosDhere·· Send your friends and relatives 
@ 
ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA 52825 u.s. 31 N South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-9000 

._______________ 
~next to the _Boa~_l{ea..Ql 



Loyola University of Chicago
I 
Summer Sessions Day and Evening Classes 

Departments of Instruction Accounting Finance Anthropology Fine Arts Business Law History Biology Management Chemistry Marketing Classical Studies Mathematics Communication Arts Modern Languages Economics (Accelerated courses Education in French, German English & Spanish) ' Natural Science 
Philosophy 
Physics 
Political Science 
Psychology Sociology Theatre Theology 

F---------~----------------------------------------------------­
or more mformation, mail this coupon to: 
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO SUMMER SESSIONS OFFICE 820 N. MICHIGAN AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60611 (PHONE: 312-944-08001 

Name __________________________________________ 
Address --------------------------------­
Present School 

Al»ril 11, 1973

the observer
6 





Red Cross blood drive scheduled 

GSU election slated lor Friday 

The ND-SMC Red Cross blood drive for this spring is scheduled for Monday and Tuesday of next week, April 16 and 17. Open to all members of the ND-SMC com­munity, blood donations will be accepted from 10:00 am to 4:00pm in an auxiliary gym of the ACC. Signs and directions will be posted. 
Handling the program will be members of the Fort Wayne chapter of the Red Cross, and the total quota is 400 pints of blood. 
Organizers Pete Meade and Jack McKeon have been involved in last year's campus drives and look forward to another successful program. 
'~Because only one chapter of the 
Hy David Kaminski Starr Reporter 
Elections for the offices of President, Vice President, and Secretary-Treasurer of the Graduate Student Union are this Friday, April 13, at the meeting of the 1 GSU Council, according to Brother Mark Ratkus, member of the GSU Council. 
/ 
"The GSU election is not a popular election. The officers are elected by the GSU Council, which is made up of one graduate student representative from every department," siad Ratkus. 
"The importance of this election can be seen by some of the work that the GSU has done in the past," Ratkus continued. 
"At the recommendation and the insistence of the GSU, Dr. Robert Gordon came up with a detailed grievance policy for the graduate student last year. 
"We realized the importance of due process during the Lewis Hall affair. Most of the graduate students were up in arms over it. We found that the undergraduate student's rights were more protected than the avanced student's." 
I "We've also succeeded in, placing some of our members on various committees of the University and have even ~ established some committees especially to handle the problems of the graduate student," Ratkus said. 
The following is a list of the can­didates, their platforms, and a short history of their academic carreer. 
candidate for President: Paul R. 
Bolduc. Department of Chemistry 
Ph.D. Candidate 
1 am a graduate of Catholic University (BA, 1970), and of the University of Notre Dame (MS, 1972). Since coming here, I've been active in the Arnold Air Society, the Chess Club (VP, VP, Treasurer), the Rugby Club, WSND-FM, the,t Scholastic, and lately the ND-SMC Children's Theater. I'm here on a NSF Graduate Traineeship, and have served two years as a delegate to the GSU from my department, as well as a member of last year's Social Committee and as Chairman of the Sanctigns Rewrite Committee. 
Juniors! 
Last Chance to Return Your Proofs for Yearbook Portrait. 
Same Place Where Photographed, 2-C La Fortune. Hours: 10 am-5 pm 
Red Cross iis coming this time our quota is about half what it has been before," said McKeon. "We are hoping to reach the goal by working mainly on a scheduling system." 
According to the plan, all donors will be recruited this week and given a specific appointment time. With approximately 10 donors each 15 minutes, the process should work quickly and efficiently. 
"It should take no more than one hour for each person to go all the way through," said McKeon. 
Both McKeon and Meade stressed the importance ofmaking an appointment and not planning to just "walk in" on the day of the drive. "We hate to prod people this way~ but the Red 1 Cross brings in only so much equipment and we like to make the best use of it the entire time,'; added McKeon. 

Meade agreed with that view, saying "with an even flow of people throughout the day, we utilize our. time to the limit and eliminate long lines and back­ups." 
The actual donation takes about 10 minutes, ,but the whole process includes individual checks for temperature, pulse, hemoglobin and medical history. 
Records are kept of each donation and donors receive a card showing bllod type and dates of donation for easy reference. People can donate up to five times a year, with at least 8 weeks bet­ween donations. 
An added incentive to the Red Cross program is the cooperative plan, whereby each donor and their immediate families receive 
the council members. 
5. 
A reception be held this fall within the first week of registration for new grad students to get acquainted with old, to meet their GSU delegates & college heads, and to fam,iliarize themselves with the GSU in general. 

6. 
We propose a more active social program. 

7. 
The athletics program be continued and improved. 


Paul R. Bolduc Anne L. Mueller Susan F. Foley 
President: James Zafirau 

Education: Presently a candidate for the Ph.D. in Eucational Administration and Leadership (with emphasis on organizational development and psychology, educational and developmental psychology, philosophichal foundations, educational research). Since comprehensive exams are completed, these will not be factors limiting Graduate Student Union in­volvement next year.. Th master's degree was earned from the University of Toledo, the B.A. (English, paycholgy) and B.S. (teaching majors in English, mathematics and general science) from Bowling Green State 
University. Also, the National University of Mexico, Tulane Univeristy, Loyola, and the Universidad lberoamericana have been attended ona short program basis (summer, etc.). Activities included contributing to various campus publications, and active roles in various campus organizations. My most recent publication is an article titled "Toward Dynergistic Leadership in Schools," Notre Dame Journal of Education 
.,
... 
c: 
41)
., 
41)
... 
Q. 
>..
-"a :t 0
... 
Q. 
c: 
0 .C:­
:;::) 
... 
c: 
..,41) 
:t
... 
Cl) 

free blood for one year. The only cost is the individual lab fees for processing. When accepting blood from a private organization, those in need pay much more for the blood itself. 
Discussing last year's drives, the organizers described their success and experiences. 
"We have gotten a lot of studentsupport and would like to see more staff and faculty in­volvement," mentioned McKeon, "their families could benefit greatly from the plan and it would 
be great ticipation."  to  have their  par­ 
Meade  and  McKeon  are  both  

transfer students who began the blood program last spring. "We inquired and found out that ND had not had a blood drive in many years," explained Meade. "One 
towards the initiating of well-planned (Spring, 1973) :and well-executed social, ervice, and 
Professional Experience: Assistant I legislative (crisis or otherwise) Executive Director of the Economic programs which collectively will appeal Opportunity Planning Association of to all graduate students. These will be 
Greater Toledo, Inc. (operating on pursued through an appropriate artistry OEO, DOL, HEW, DOA and local of educational, structural and Iran­initiative for approximately 400 full-sactional strategies. 1 view each of time employees in such areas as per-· ed sonnel policy formulation and im-(cont~nu on page 7,) 
pleentation, administration of 

leases 1"---------------... 

and other business ·contracts, organizational and community training and development, research and evaluation, proposal writing, and line responsibilities over approximately eighty employees in eight neighborhood centers, a creative arts center, a migrant program, and various special projects. 
Manager-Sales Consultant for Laidlaw Brothers Publishers, servicing ; the school systems in the eastern one­
half of Ohio, Clevaland to Marietta. 
Teacher at Bowsher High School in Toledo, Ohio (geometry and algebra). Author of the 1967 statewide (20,000 copies) plane geometry test. 
Seismic computer for Pan American Petroleum Corporation in their off­shore (Gulf of Mexico) geophysical exploration activities. 
Specific Graduate Student UnionIExperience: Representative of the Department of Graduate Studies in Education to the Gradual e Student 1Union. Also ha·ve been an active par­
, ticipant in the general meetings, have served as a GSU representative to the Faculty Senate, Student Life Council and the University of Notre Dame Board of Trustee's Subcommittee on Student Affairs. 
Summarized Platform: I do not 
reason was that the South Bend 
chapter has no donation unit and 
the private unit in South Bend 
doesnt' handle massive drives." 
"It's very important that donors respond to these scheduled drives and don't wait for emergencies," continued Meade. "Since whole blood can only be used for 28 days, a replenishing supply must be kept available." 
The Red Cross in the largest singleblood collection agency in the country. This voluntary organization of 31 % million members takes on the respon­sibility to recruit donors, collect blood, process and store it, and to distribute it when it is needed. 
'Any one wishing to donate blood or help work during the drive should contact Pete Meade 0467) or Jack McKeon (8850. 


ATTENTION 
ALL 

RADUATIN STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
Thursday April 12 and 

Friday April 13 between 
9:00 -4:00 at the 
NOTRE 


DAME 
BOOKSTORE :J 

April 11, 1973 
the observer 
GSU candidates explain ideas 
(continued from page 6) 
these components and strategies as necessary for the realization of a fully­functioning, integrated and growth­oriented Graduate Student Union. Fuller and morr direct participation of a greater number of graduate students is necessary for increasing the relevance, the legitimacy and the resulting effectiveness of the GSU. 
t view a successful social program as a basic starting point for this Iutter participation, and would like to see it att "kicked off' through a weft-planned and publicized September party. Ad­ditionally, the planning of the sub­stantive and ongoing programs should begin this spring, be reflective of representative graduate student in­terests as expressed by them (via a questionnaire), and should be con­stantly and consistently worked at throughout this coming school year. I further propose that these goals be accomplished through a particpatory and group-centered style of leadership 
(versus a defensive and "man-to-man" style). This would include an extensive delegation of prerogatives in block areas to various interested individuals. This, in my view., witt extend the ef­fectiveness of the GSU President (although decreasing his relative but not absolute influence), which of course will increase t the organizational ef­fectiveness and the overall per­formance of the GSU as a whole. 
The literature on organizational­development and psychology also suggests that such an approach witt increase the morale among professionals (which by Etzioni's definition we all are). increase the GSU .s "coping-capabilities" (new adaptiveness born from increased decentralization and the resulting specialization: Hage et. al.). and in­crease organizational integration and solidarity of purpose (because it ac­commodates each member's unique need-disposion through its broad-based concern for personal relationships as well as for objective task oriented goals: Getzels, Guba, Reddin, Blake, Mouton, et. al.). I hope that you agree that you agree with me that these are desireable outcomes. 
Please support this platform for your 
personal benefit and for continuing GSU 
growth. 
President: William M. Lavage, Department of Government and In­ternational Studies, Ph.D. Program 
I am a graduate of King's Cottege, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. -B.A., Government, 1968, and the University of Notre Dame­M.A., American Government, 1969. While at King's College, I held mem­berships in the gtee ctub (Vice­President), the Political Science Forum, the Aquinas Honor Society, and Delta Epsilon Sigma (Gamma Chap­ter). At Notre Dame, lwas associated with the Social Science Training and Research Laboratory as a graduate research assistant and served as an elected representative to the Notre Dame Graduate Political Science Association. Upon graduation with the 
M.A. in 1969, I commenced two years of active duty with" the U.S. Navy as a Lieutenant (junior grade) and served as an Intelligence Analyst, NATO Desk, for the Assistant Chief of Naval Operations, lntettigence, in the Pen­tagon, Washington, D.C. I returned to Notre Dame in 1971 as an NDEA fettow in the Ph.D. program for Public Ad­ministration. I have served again as a representative to the Notre Dame Graduate Political Science Association and as a representative to the GSU from Government since my return. 
My main qualification in seeking the office of president of the GSU is a deep and abiding concern for the quality of graduate student life at this University. I hope to be able to marshatt and command the resources of dynamism, sensitivity, creativity, and leadership which I believe inhere not only in the GSU as a representative body, but also in the graduate student body as awhole, in order to improve the status of graduate student life and bring to fruition the concept of a community. 
I feel completely capable of working with other individuals of all persuasions and outlooks in striving to fulfitt those goals and desires which we all, as graduate students, believe are necessary for satisfactory and rneaningul intellectual and social life at this University. 
Platform 

Given the kind of pi uralistic social and political relationships which currently exist at Notre Dame, no candidate can in conscience guarantee attainment of the fine points of his platform or program. He must, however, commit himself to a sustaine effort directed toward positive goals which he believes will benefit all graduate students. With this caveat in 


No co-exchange fees 
(continued from page 6) Dame fell well below the exchange limit this year, a somewhat freer exchange policy will be used at St. Mary's in pre-registration for the Fall 1973 semester. 
According to S,C Registrar Donald Rosenthal, St. Mary's seniors will be permitted to take two Notre Dame courses. Juniors and sophomores will continue to arrange their schedules under a limit of one exchange course. 
No individual exchange restrictions will exist for Notre Dame students wishing to take courses at St. Mary's. However, a survey of the number of SMC courses taken by ND students will be made by the registrar's office after seniors and juniors have pre­registered. At that time, any necessary adjustments regarding sophomore pre-registration restrictions will be made. 
AL Councilaccepting applications for posts 
The Arts and Letters Student Advisory Councilis now accepting applications for the membership positions to be vacated by graduating seniors. 
All present freshman, sophomore, and junior Arts and Letters students desiring one of the vacated positions should submit a brief statement outlining their qualifications and reasons for applying to room 137 O'Shaughnessey no later than 4:30 PM on Monday, April 16. In­terviews by the present Advisory Concil members will be arrangedfor those applying. 
The Student Advisory Council is composed of approximately fif­teen students chosen from the Arts and Letters College. During the course of the year, according to current chairman Neil Rosini, the Advisory Council attempts to represent the A & L student body before various faculty and ad­ministratvie bodies as well as acting as an intermediary between the students and the Dean of the College. 
In line with these respon­sibilities, the group devotes much of its energy to probing areas of student interest and concern and, where necessary,. submitting subsequent reform proposals. 
This year the Council has been extremely active. Supported by the results of a student poll and by an extensive reasearch effort into the pass-fail option, it presented a major report callin g for all a liberalizing reform of the Notre Dame pass-fail grading system. 
The group also insitituted and organized a series of popular "mini-courses" on basic car mechanics, fundamentals of taxes and consumer-oriented insurance. 
In addition to these efforts, the Council has continued it s research activities into methods of im­proving student and faculty con­selling, reducing requirements and generally improving student repres ta tion on the various academic boards. The group is also repsonsible for organiziang the A & L College "Meet Your Major" program which is held each spring for sophomores. 
The Council President for next year, Guy Randles, has expressed hope that the response from high­quality applicants will be as great this year as it has been in the past. 
Desiring to continue the rpoductive work of this year's Council, Randles state, "We are looking men and women who are willing to expand a considerable amount of en~rgy on the projects and research necessary to protect and represent student interests. In the past we have been fortunate in finding just this type of person." 
The deadline for applications is Monday at 4:30PM. 
mind, therefore, the fottowing areas constitute the essential core of my proposed program for the GSU in 1973­74: 
1. Formalization of Communications Channels: 
While the GSU has made relatively rapid and far-reaching strides inopening up various channels of communications for the advancemnt of graduate student needs, I feel that we 
must now move to officiatty formalize and guarantee the dontinued existence of these links. Such things as a formal grievance committee comprised of students, faculty, and administrators, committees of co-operation with the Student Bar Association, and 'Om­budsman' services could guarantee the continued operation of communications irrespective of the personalities in­volved or the subject matter under consideration. 
II. Use of GSU Funds: 
It is essential that we attempt as an organization to forge common bonds of fellowship and interest among att graduate students through the effective use of GSU funds in the social and in­tellectual areas of life. I therefore propose that a study be undertaken within the GSU to ascertain the feasibility of establishing on a con­tinuing basis such things as: mini­speakers bureau, submect workshops (car repair, sewing courses, cooking, first aid classes, etc.). professional aids (pre-and post-natal care, student blood bank, etc.). and informational services for new students. 
Ill. Traffic and Security 
It is imperative that we continue to seek from the administration meaningful commitments to the safety of students on campus. This requires continued insistence that prvisions be made to allow graduate students Who work on campus at night to use automobiles on campus for specified business at specified times. 
Moreover, some assurance must be provided that the University will guarantee priority use of parking areas to those students who have paid a fee for their use. Too often students have found parking areas preempted by the public in attending activities and programs at the ACC. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
IV. Activities of GSU Officers and Members 
I fully expect that should I be elected to the office of president, futt and continued use witt be made of the of­ficers and members of the GSU in the policy-making process. The officers serving as Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer will be exptected to involve themselves in the tasks of the GSU in capacities other than the per­formance of mere ministerial duties. would hope that GSU activity witt be open to any or att members who feel they can provide meaningful input, whether that input be critical or con­structive, substantive or procedural, part-time or futt-time. 
ARTS AND LETTERS 
INTENT FRESHMAN 
Meet Your Maior Night for the 
GENERAL PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 

7 pm Thursday April 12 11 0 O'Shaughnessy 
-------i 
Add 

I 
Citv-----Stat&--ZIP-­Send to: SOFA/ 
Eui'OIM'an Studnt Tf'lrftl Center Ltd. 
136 East 57th Street, Suite 1205 NewYork,N.Y.10022 ~~~~~
... 

Tel. (212) Pll-8000 ~ 
WANTED 
Two need ride to MILWAUKEE Fri, Apr. 13. Call Paul 8276 or Rick 8284. 
Wanted: 3 Roommates, Srs, large house, great location, huge double, big single. Call Denny 3180 or Chris 233-7931, address 1035 N.D. Ave. 
Ride needed to Washington ­Richmond area anytime after Sunday April 15th. Call Jim 1050. 
Ride needed to NYC or Conn. Can leave anytime after April 13th. Call Dave 3679. 
Ride needed to Fla. on Tues 17 or Wed. 18. Contact Howard • 6789. 
Need rider to Lauderdale or that direction -this Thursday. Larry 3245. 
Ride wanted, to-from Bloomington; 13-15,call Sue, 3607. 
Wanted: housing ac­commodations tor faculty coming for Summer Program in Pastoral and Social Ministry-June 24-July 
21. One family -2 children; one family · 6 children; week of July 8 
one family, 4 children. Call Msgr. John Egan's office 283-3293. 
Desperately need ride to D. C .. Call Don, 1059. 
Need ride to Peoria Friday April 
13. Can leave anytime. Call Matt 6865. 
Need ride to Cleveland for Easter can leave Tuesday afternoon April 17. Call Greg 1336. 
Need ride to Phila. S. Jersey for EEaster Break. Call Ken 3679. 
Wanted: Skiers to go to ASPEN, Colorado, Will leave Friday 13 afternoon. Free rooms, call Peter Hellard at 288-0591. 
Housemates  wanted  for  the  
summer.  House  is  walking  
distance from campus.  Call 233­ 

9616. Ask for Don or Jack. 
We need summer housing for 4. Will sublet. Call 7812. 
Ride to East Lansing on April 18, call 8423. 
.Two guys need housemate from Sept. '74 thru Dec. '74. 1st semester only. Call Rich at 272­8189. 
Free ride to Iowa. Thurs. April 19, 233-1329. 
Need ride to NYC on Wed., April 
18. Call Jay 1654. 
FOR SALE 
Two $5.50 James Taylor tickets ­$10.00. Call 287-6010. 
For Sale: VIVITAR 135mm Telephoto lens, 2.8 with case. (fits Nikon mounts) $50. Call Rick 
8284. 

~='or Sale: new Raliegh bike 3­speed, white. Call Ted 8575. 
Must Sell! colorful Blizzard Totals w-marker bindings. 195crn. Used only one season. Doug 234-7556. Best offer. 
For Sale 1971 Norton Roadster ­750cc, great condition 2,000 miles. Be prepared to spend $$. Call 
·.~ark 289-5940. 

For Sale: 1966 Chevy Biscayne ­excellent condition-$400. Call Joe 1786. 
For Sale-Ping-Pong table. Very r~ood condition. reasonable price. PI ease ca II 233-3893. 
AKAI 250D tape deck and library­$275; DUAL-SHURE 1215-M91ED lurntable complete $105; FISHER XP55B speakers -$60 pr.; KLH MODEL 27 receiver ­$195; SONY 250D tape deck-$70; MEMOREX 1800 tape, new, sealed -$4.15 ea. CALL 234-2536 
after 5. 

Two $5.50 tickets to J.T. Concert, 15th row, center, floor seats Tom 2151. 
JVCamp,2SANSUI SPEAKERS WORTH OVER $800 TAKE IT AWAY FOR $550. CALL 1670. 
FOR RENT 
bedroom house, wall to wall carpeting, completely furnished, near campus, Grads Only. 289­
2461. 

Want privacy? Rooms $40 mo. 233-1329. 
Adjoining 2 + 4 bedroom homes for rent. Summer or fall. Fully furnished -near campus. Call collect 715-842-4463. 
PERSONALS 
Gerry: The flakes danced today. Sorry I didn't write sooner. Love, Rainbow. 
Bo-Bo, I might love you more, but I doubt it. Happiest of Happy Birthdays. 
Dan, for my great bod or my toes? Bubbles 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: girl's brown glasses near ACC or Library, call 5246. 
Lost: brown wallet Bethlehem, PA home address. Please call 3005 or 3007. 
Lost: gold Seiko watch, reward. Phone 8845. 
Lost: wire-rimmed glasses in orange case. Round shape. Call Julie 233-9209. 
Lost at Beach Boys Concert 
Brown shoulder bag. Would 
appreciate it if you would atleast 

return glasses and I.D. Reward, ·no questions asked. Call 8001. 
NOTICES 

ELECTIONS for GSU Officers this Friday, 12 noon in 127 N.S.H. Manditory attendance for all Dept. Reps. 
Beaux Arts Ball: Fractured Fairy Tales. Architecture Bldg, Friday, April 13, 10-2. Tickets on sale in the Architecture Library or at the door. 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM­MUNITY, CALL 7789W-Th-F, 8-10 
pm. 
California Club flight to LA May 16 only $68.30 Badin Travel Agency, sign up deadline Thurs. Apr. 12. Information 8282, 7080. 
Morrissey  Loan  Fund  closing  
April  27.  Pay  all  outstanding  
loans.  All  unpaid debts will  be  

turned over to Student Accounts with extra $5.00 charge. 
Typing -experienced in essays, dissertations, term papers, theses. Phone 232-9061. 
N D Students and Faculty! 
Because o the response was so r~reat to our last 2 ads we are now offering 15 percent off on all tune­ups and other repairs. Call 272­9676 anytime or stop by Rollin' Wheels Sunoco 17955 State Road 23 (across from Greenwood's Shopping Center.) 
Wanted: one dirtball for Beaux Art Ball publicity stunt. $10.00 7644. 
the observer 
Stickmen trounce Buckeyes, 8-5 
by Andrew Scantlebury quarter middie Dave Jurusik gave the Irish the lead for good.Ohio State's lacrosse team, with Working off a Jim Lepley pick, the All-American Skip VanBorgan­talented senior fired a bullet past
dien, visited South Bend on the screened Morris. 
Saturday but it was the Irish stick­Once again the Irish defense was 
men who put on the offensive show. magnificent. Goaltender Simmons 
Led by midfielders Dave Jurusik made miraculous stops all af­and Paul Reagan and another ternoon and the ones that got by 
outstanding defensive effort, him usually hit the posts.Notre Dame whipped the Buckeyes Defensemen Ernie Bergkessel,8-5 for their fifth straight victory. George Carberry, and Geoff Lyden 
Ohio State has VanBorgandien held the Buckeyes to only eight
but little else and it was obvious shots on goal in the first half in­
from the start that the All­cluding only two by VanBorgan­
American commanded most of the dien. After the game Bergkessel
Irish attention. Notre Dame spent commented, "I thought of 
the first half of the afternoon VanBorgandien all week long; I 
checking and pressing the great couldn't even sleep on Friday
Buckeye star. In between, the night. I made mistakes this af 
Irish scored threee times and led ternoon but we really put together 
by one at the close of the half. a total team effort. It was a great
Co-captain Rich Mullin opened win for us." Bergkessel didn't up the Irish scoring mid way make many mistakes, hounding
throught the first quarter. The VanBorgandien all day long, and 
lead didn't last for long, however, causing him to mutter after the 
as 90 seconds later VanBorgandien game, "I've never spent a longer
drew in the defense and then set up afternoon in my life." 
midfielder Gerry Cooper. Cooper The second half was no contest 
beat Notre Dame goalie Paul as Notre Dame scored three quick Simmons to the far side and the goals. Reagan !scored his second game was tied. goal of the game at 1:06. Then it A Buckeye mistake set up the was Jurusik again on a great pass next Irish tally. Midfielder Paul from Jim Brown followed a Reagan was left open on a switch moment later by a B. J. Bingleand Ohio State goalie Pete Morris goal. VanBorgandien's second and never ahd a chance on Regan's third goals were matched by the hard shot. individual efforts of attackmen Joe 
VanBorgandien has more moves Anderson and Bill Dacey. Terrythan a Russian chess master and Saylor scored the final State goal, against a team like Notre Dame." he displayed all of them on a great on a mix-up in the Irish end. It is to The victory sets up a crucial goal at the close of the first VanBorgandien's credit that he Wednesday confrontation between quarter. This would be the closest scored the hat trick; he didn't have Michigan and the Irish. Both Ohio State would come all af­a moment to himself. "My teams tied for last year's Mid-West ternoon. Late in the second teammates look to me to do the Lacrosse Club Chamionship. 





Tealll lllan Riddell leads Irish 
by Stan Urankar walks in better than 50 innings of out for baseball all year, but I was pitching while winning his last just happy to make the squad."
You have to know Mike Riddell three starts and surrendering just Spending four years with thepersonally to truly appreciate the fourlruns in his final 22 innings. yarsity has familiarized Riddellkind of guy he is. Besides an­With slats like that, it would seem with captain Bob Roemer, the Irish choring Notre Dame's pitching that the "Riddler" was a natural­catcher. "It's a real asset havingstaff, he comes through with the born pitcher, right? Bob behind the plate because he~ittle~hings that earn respect from Suprisingly enough, Mike got his knows the way I like to pitch,"the people that meet him. For first shot at prep baseball because notes Mike. "It gives me a lot ofexample ... 
of his hitting. "I hit about .500 as confidence because I know that if I--MiketRiddell is the kind of guy a in school
freshman high and throw one in the dirt, he'll block it, who doesn't pout when he loses a made the varsity, but never really or if a guy gets on base, Bob cantough one. After coming out on the gave serious thought to my pit­pick him off or throw him out."
short end of a four-hitter at ching until junior year. I started Riddell is also quick to note theWisconsin last weekend, he just throwing then, and by senior year, overall strength of this year'sreplied, "I don't mind getting the I was 9-1 with the only loss coming team. "I think this team has theloss one way or another against my to the state champions." best depth of any Notre Dame own record, but it disappoints me An all-Southern California team since we went to the NCAAsto have the team lose. I just hate selection in both basketball and in 1970. There's plenty of pitchingthe thought of Notre Dame losing. 
baseball, Riddell originally came depth, and we've got more talented
--.JM:ike)Riddell is the kind of guy 
to Notre Dame with the thought of individuals for every position than
who is always in the game, playing both. "I didn't even go to I can ever remember."
whether pitching or not. "I coach fall baseball practices freshman "The Tulsa trip hurt our record,
at third base every so often, and it was working but gave us plenty of experience
year because I out

really helps put me in the game. I trying to make the basketball for the northern season,"'Mikecan help spot possible weakness of team." Mike madelthe hoopsters, adds. "The tournament people will the other team besides en­and even suffered through guar­look at what we did against ourcouraging our own guys and ding Austin Carr in the varsity­competitors up here when it comes complimenting them for making a 
freshman game. time for choosing among the in­good play." 
"When basketball season ended, dependents. We have the talent --Mike Riddell is the kind of guy I tried out for the baseball team and knowledge now to win those who doesn't like to let down his 
and was put with the junior var­games."teammates. "The team has sity," he remembers. "I came Whether the Irish get a District 
confidence in me when I'm pit­along quickly and was dressing for IV spot or not, you can be sure of ching, so it's up to me to do the job varsity games by the middle of the one thing---Mike Riddell is the kind and come through for them. Even season. I probably could have of guy who'll do his best to win 
on an
if a man gets because of gotten a shot at pitching if I'd been every single game. 
error, it only means that I should have tried that much harder to strike him out." 
--Mike Riddell is the kind of guy who goes after the 1big one with all he's got. "Our first game on the spring trip was against Oral Roberts and that first win can always mean a lot to the teatn. I was putting out about 100 per cent in that game because a w!n in the opener can really help morale." Re~ult: Irish 12, ORU 3, the only loss the eighth-ranked Titans have $Uffered this season. 
Mike isn't one to overrate his pitching ablilties. "It's very im­portant that I concentrate com~ pletely when I'm pitching because 
haven't got that overpowering fastball," the senior righthander notes. "I have to hit my spots to make sure I stay in control. Even when I go to waste a pitch, I want to make it one that the batter has to think about swimzin~ at." 
Don't cut Mike short, though. The Highland, Cal. native Ued Irish mound men last season with a 3.58 ERA, 44 strikeouts, and only 17 





OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Poor start for trackmen 
Hampered by bad weather and George, a 6-7, 260 pounder, was 
illness, the Irish track team impressive with the discus, 
opened its 1973 outdoor season on a working his way to a fifth-place 
dismal note this past weekend. showing in the invitational division 
Managing only a third-place finish of that event. 
in the 120 yard high hurdles and a Middle-distance runner Mike 
fifth in the invitational discus, the Gahagen, ND's hopes in the mile 
Irish finished well towards the and half-mile events, did not even 
back in a field of over one hundred make the trip. Gahagen was in the 
teams competing in Lexington's infirmary all weekend with a mild 
Kentucky Relays. infection. 
Hurdler Tom McMannon and The long-distance chores were weightman Willy George were the handled by Dan Dunne, who ran 
only bright spots in the Irish both the three and six-mile events. 
peformance. McMannon, the 1972 Notre Dame was also entered in 
NCAA indoor high hurdles the sprint medley, the four-mile 
champion, battled a driving rain relay, the distance medley ,and the 
and a strong headwind and placed mile relay, but was unable to place 
third in the 120 yard highs, in any of those events. Because of 
crossing the finish line in 14.4 the large number of teams at the 
seconds, nine-tenths of a second off Relays, no scores were kept and no 
his career best of 13.5. 
winner was declared. 
The Irish open their home· season 
this Saturday at Cartier with a
Kickers fall dual meet against Ohio State's 
Buckeyes. The meet's scheduledNotre Dame's soccer team starting time is 2:00 p.m.
played througn a steady downpour 
last Saturday afternoon and 
dropped its opening game, 3-{) to ABC slates Irish 
Cincinnati. ABC's sports programming
After UC dominated early play, department yesterday announced 
the Irish came back to gain control seven games in its 1973-74 college
but were halted when Cincy was football game schedule, and the 
awarded a penalty kick. . The partial slate includes a pair of 
Bearcats converted on the op­nationally televised appearances
portunity and led by that margin at by Notre Dame's Fighting Irish. the end of the half. Notre Dame's first nation-wide 
ND came out strong going for the appearance will come on Sep­tying ·score, but again lost tember 29th when the Irish clash momentum when Cincinnati with Purdue's Boilermakers in 
received another penalty kick that Ross-Ade Stadium in West was converted into a 2-{) ad­Lafayette. vantage. The Irish bounced back Then on Thanksgiving Day, the 
on Steve Mal pica's goal, but the Irish play the lead-off role in an 
referees disallowed it through an ABC turkey weekend ex­offsides call. travaganza. Notre Dame hosts Air Captain Rick Eichner was in­Force on November 22nd, and that 
jured midway through the second game will be followed, over the half, dulling hopes of a Notre next two days, by a Thursday night Dame recovery. The Bearcats contest between Louisiana Atate 
tallied on a 4-on-1 break with ten and Alabama (at Baton Rouge), a minutes left to play that resulted in Friday matchup between the final 3-Q score. Nebraska and Oklahoma (at
Irish coach Arno Zoske com­Norman), and a Saturday gamemented after the game, "I was that is yet to be announced pleasantly surprised with the Other games tabbed by ABC for team's performance. The team nation-wide exposure include: 
played together extremely well. It UCLA at Nebraska on September was unfortunate that we lost, but 8th, Oklahoma at Texas on Oc­we have nothing to be ashamed tober 13th, and Army-Navy on of." December 1st. 



