On The Inside 
Rosenthal speaks on finance at SMC 
... page 3 Mr. Dirt up lor Senior Fellow award 
... page 7 

Vol. VII No. 75 



Work to get off-campus 


Women fight discrimination 
by Marlene Zloza Sunday Night Editor 

Approaching the issue as an individual appeal rather than a discriminatory issue, ND undergraduate women are still working to get University permission to live off-campus next year. 
Tt>rry Anderson, a junior from Walsh, met with Fr. .James Riehle. dean of students and director of student housing, twice last week concerning the University policy and the possibility of a change. She has gathered petitions and also po1led women undergrads to see how many are persona11y interested in moving orr-campus for the '73-'74 school year. . 
"Arter seeing Fr. Riehle's comments about followmg the current policy for next year in the .Observer, (Friday, .Jan. 26), I wanted to see him an~ ~ind,out .if anvthing could be done to change the deciSIOn, said Anderson. "He seemed pretty enthusiastic and asked me to find out the number of girls interested, which would provide something concrete to look at." 
When she asked him the reasons for the policy, An­
derson said he told her: first, the University wants the 
women visible on campus; second, there is a need for 
campus orientqtion for the first few years; and third, 
the decision was initially set for the '72-'73 school year 
and has been extended for the '73-'74 year. 
"I don't know what the policy will be for the following 
vears " said Riehle yesterday morning, "that will 
h<we to be decided by the officers of the University." 
Anderson questioned the need for campus orien­
tation. saying that most of those wanting to move off­
campus are transfer students from St. Mary's who 
have been familiar with the campus for three years._ 
After the Monday meeting, Anderson continued to 
gather names on a petition favoring a policy change 
and also gathered a list of women who wanted to inove 
off-campus themselves. 
"We got a total of over 2,000 names by petitioning in Walsh and Badin and in the dining halls," asserted Anderson, "including about 80 per cent of the Walsh and Badin residents.!' 
After the meetings with Riehle, Anderson said she began to doubt whether the petition was significant. "We didn't really discuss it. The administration seems more interested in specific cases rather than the general student attitude." 
Riehle verified this yesterday, saying, "I didn't make the decision, but as for myself, thepetitions wouldn't have any effect." 
It was senior Paul Dziedzic who finally convinced Anderson the petitions weren't any help. 
"He suggested we do something constructive to find ways of placing women in the vacated rooms and lessening the University's loss," said Anderson. Dziedzic's suggestion included contacting women living at home this year who might want a year of campus living, contacting graduate students who want to live on campus but can't get into Lewis Hall, and checking with the admissions office to find out how many transfer applications are coming in. 
Concerning these suggestions, Riehle mentioned that he does not believe women graduate students would be allowed to live in undergraduate dorms. "We don't allow the men to do that, why should we allow it for women students?" 
Anderson gave Fr. Riehle a list of 22 names, 15 of whom have expressed a defilnite desire to live off­campus and 7 who may be interested. All are juniors. "I asked the section leaders to help me contact all residents," added Anderson. 
After hearing Riehle reaffirm the administration's stand on Thursday, Anderson asked him about his statement and he told her the administration does not wish to change its stand. "I was disheartened and asked him why he had encouraged me to gather the list 


of names. He said that he would take the list fo Dr. Faccenda, acting vice president of student affairs, and maybe exceptions could be made on an individual basis. , 
Riehle confirmed that he had given the list to Fac­cenda on Friday, but that no answer had been given to him yet. 
"It's possible specific exceptions will be made, but the policy will remain the same. It's up to the officers if they want to consider individual circumstances," explained Riehle. 
"My feeling is that Fr. Hesburgh Cin a speech last Thursday in Flanner) didn't seem very interested in a change in the established policy," added the Director of Student Housing. 
Riehle also stressed that the University officers had the legitimate authority to make the general policy against women living off-campus," concluded An­derson. Anderson also. mentioned that Fr. Riehle had expressed concern whether enough qualified replacements would be available for women that would 
Faccenda: Reviewing list of women who wish to move off campus 
Riehle: "It's possible specific exceptions will be made. but the policy will remain the same." move off. 
Dr. Faccenda also brought this question up at a press conference last Thursday night when he called the '73­'74 quota for women "the absolute upper limit in which we could recruit in our second year." 
Anderson questioned this attitude and said she believed "there are still some St. Mary's students who might be interested in transferring here and also students from other schools." 
Anderson said she "gave Fr. Riehle a maximum number and I don't see a problem if there is a deadline. The university can make money, not lose it, by filling those places and collecting the extra tuition fees. 
Ann Doherty, who was also with Anderson at the Friday meeting, said she understood that Fr. Riehle couldn't change the decision himself. The junior marketing major expressed her personal feelings. "I do think it is discrimination." 
The inside cover of the 1972-73 student manual stated that "all the rules, regulations, and policies contained in this student manual are binding on all students registered at the University of Notre Dame." 
Page thirty-one of the manual says: "Single, un­dergraduate students over 21 years of age may reside anywhere in the South Bend area. Single, un­dergraduate students under 21 years of age must living in housing approved by the Dean of Students." 
.Judy Snyder, president of the Women's Rights Association of the ND law school, and Mary Martha McNamara, both third year law students, are in­terested in checking the laws on the issue. 
"I consider it a denial of their rights as individuals and citizens and discriminatory in regard to men, who can live off-campus," said Snyder. 
(continued on page 6) 

Pears explains tight security measures to HPC 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 

·•we have limited the suspects down to eight people and three cars, but as yet we have no conclusive evidence," explained Campus Security Director Arthur Pears when questioned about the three recent burglaries on campus-Alumni Hall, the ACC. and Cavanaugh Hall. · Speaking before the Hall President!" Council. Pears said that he could not release the names of the suspects because 
the  police  are  still  conducting  in­ 
vestigations.  Nevertheless,  he did  feel  
certain  that  the  thieves  would  be  ap­ 
prehended.  

Pears expressed concern, however, about whether he would be able to obtain the necessary written complaints once the "This would cause some inconveniences," said Pears, "but at least it would keep strangers out of the hall." 
Pears also offered to buy etching pencils with money from the security budget for any ha11s that wanted them. The pencils would be used by students to label their valuables with their social security numbers. "Eighty-five percent of the items reported stolen," said Pears, "can't be rec?Overed because their owners do not know their serial number." 
Urging the students to be more con­sciencious about locking their rooms when left unattended, Pears asserted his belief that students also have a responsibility toward maintaining security. 
Dean of Students Father .James L. 
Hiehle. who accompanied Pears at the 
meeting, said that there presently are no a 25-year old college graduate, but being a security officer at Notre Dame does not prov.ide the challenge nor the retirernePt benefits to attract .•he personnel." 
When questions were raised concerning the Lewis Hall patrietals violation, Pears refused to make any comments. Riehle said that he though Pears had suffered a lot of unnecessary harassment over the case . because the actual events were misunderstood and misrepresnted. "I think that the incident was handled with as much tact as possible," he s~id. "If the same thing happened again today, I would handle it in the same manner." 
Pears did point out that parietals 
violatons are not the concern of campus secur;ty but of hall rectors "When a violation is reported," said Pears, "we first contact the rector, who usually takes it from there. We don't interfer unless our assistance is requested." 
The HPC also held an election last night to name a new chairman. Fred Baranowski, president of Holy cross, was elected unanimously to the post by his fe11ow presidents. 
The new chairman said that he has three major goals for the remainder of this school year: (1) preparing for an Tostal Weekend, (2) working with Dr. Philip I<'accenda on housing problems, especially the relocation br the Farly and Breen­
Philips people, and (3) settling the dif­ferences between the Student Government and the HPC. so that they might be able to work ~ffectvely together. 

apprehensions were made. "Very often plans to install an extensive lighting robbery victims decide that it is not wo~th system on campus. "First of all," all the trouble, when it comes to puttmg reasoned Riehle, "it probably wouldn't 
Attempted robbery
their names on the dotted line," said make much of a difference. The parking Pears. "Without a signed statement lots are the best lighted areas on campus, nothing can be done." vet more vandalism occurs there than 
When asked what measures could be ;mywhere else. Secondly, we do not want taken to prevent future robberies, Pears to brighten up the campus at the expense 

at Fisher Hall 
suggested that the university reinstate a of destroying its present pastoral beauty." "closed-dorm system." Such a policy calls Asked whether he thought the current for all the doors of a hall to be locked after security force is adequate , Pears an­7 p.m. and a guard to be posted at the main swered that manpower-wise it is, but ef­('ntrance to restrict entry to residents only. ficiency-wise it is not. "The ideal officer is • • • see pg.3 
.-.----------------------------------------·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------­
the observer Wednesday, Febuary 7, 1973
2 

warld briefs 
(c) 1973 New York Times 

Washington~-The White House announced Tuesday a further effort to achieve a cease-fire in Laos and plans for international conference that will try to solidify the Vietnam cease-fire agreement. In a joint statement with the North Vietnamese, the White House said that .. the post-war conference to guarantee the Vietnam agreement would open in Paris on Feb. 26, and that Secretary of State Rogers would head the American delegation. It was also disclosed that Henry A. Kissinger's Asian trip would include a stop in Laos. He is scheduled to leave today (Wednesday). 
Saigon--The first United States prisoners of war may be released on Saturday in Hanoi, according to the Chairman of the International Commission of Control and Supervision, Michel Gauvin. He said that while no definite date had been set for the first prisoner exchange, to the best of his knowledge "it would be about Feb. 10." 
Washington--At least one White House official knew of and aided the political intelligence operations led by G. Gordon Liddy and E. Howard Hunt .Jr. as early as February, 1972, four months before the Watergate arrests, government sources said. Gordon C. Strachan, a former staff assistant to H. R. Haldeman, President Nixon's Chief of Staff, served as the initial contact between Liddy's intelligence operations and the political espionage and sabotage campaign managed by Donald H. Segretti. 
an campus taday 
6: 30p.m.--sailing club meeting, 204 engineering auditorium. 
7:00 p.m. astronomy club meeting, 
118 nieuwland science hall. 7·12p.m.--mardi gras, stepan center 
7: 
30p. m.--lecture, "the mexican­american in contemporary society, carroll hall, madeleva, free. 

7: 
30p.m.--meeting and lecture, nd chess club, math building, room 226, mr. brook, master from s. bend. 


8: 
OOp. m.concert, carlo curley, organist, sacred heart church, free. 

8: 
OOp.m.--lecture, "religion in the future", adolf holl, library aud., free. 




Overseas seminars open 
There i~ still time to apply for participation in either of the two seminars being sponsored by the Institute for Mediterranean Studies this summer, "From Bl•irut to Beer Sheba", July 5­August 19, and "From the Acropolis to the Bosporus", July 8­August 13, Prof. Bictor R. Gold, Executive Director, announced today. Notre Dame is an associate institution of the Institute.. 
The first seminar provides op­portunity to visit all of the major historical and archaeological sites in Lebanon, Jordan, and Israel, literallv from Beirut to Beer Sheba." and from the l\l{'diterranean to the Jordan, with two we{'ks of field archaeology at the site of ancient Beer Sheva. 
Director for this seminar and instructor in the History of l'all•stine will be Prof. J. Maxwell l\1iller of Emory Unversity, Atlanta Georgi;), a noted specialist 


Dziedzic heads 
by Bill Sohn 
Day Editor 

The Student Government Board of Comissioners confirmed Paul Dziedzic last night as head of the l'lttction committee for the up­coming student body elections and discussed plans for the election. 
The date suggested for starting the campaign is February 22; with the primary election on February '!.7 and the run-off election on !\larch I. 
The rules proposed by the Board 

for theelection .are as follows:  
First.  petitions  must  have  100  
signatures  by  Notre  Dame  un­ 
dergraduate students;  

Second. no stick-urn buttons or adhesive posters will be per­mitted: and third, all posters to be II'" x 14" or under; and fourth, no signs are permitted on outdoor surfaces. 
Dziedzic also suggested that Student Government give $50 in tT{'dit to all qualified candidates and that a limit be set on how much a candidate may spend on the l'lPction. 
A discussion on limiting the amount spent on the election in Palestinian history and ai­chaeology. Directing the seminar's archaeological activity will be Prof. Bernard Boyd of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. an eminent ar­chaeologist. assisted by Prof. Yohanan Aharoni of the University of Tel Aviv, one of Israel's out­standing archaeologist. 
The second seminar provides the '1pportunity to visit nearly all of the major historical, archaeological and cultural sites in southern Greece. the Peloponnesus, Cre.te, Hhodes. Cyprus, and wester_n Turkey. Though time does not allow the inclusion of a field ar­chaeology program, careful at­tention is paid to this concern in seminar discussions and visits to sites and museums. 
Director for this seminar will be fh{' Institute's Executive Director, Prof. Victor R. Gold, a Visiting Professor in the Department of 

election committee 
followed. Floyd Kezele said that he felt "$100 would be more than adequate." Finally the board adopted a compromise suggestion by Paul Dziedzic that the limit be set at $150. 
These recommendations will be taken to the election committee which is comprised of Paul Dziedzic, Greg Smith, Mike Sherrod. Patty Burger, Leo Monaghan, .John Sanguinetti and 
T. C. Treanor. The rules wi"ll then be brought back to the board of comissioners for confirmation. 
The board also filled the S.L.C. seat vacated by Fr:.11K Devine. Student Body vice President. Dennis Etienne appointed Paul Lauck of Alumni Hall and the board confirmed this. 
The final act of the board was the approval of a fund raising Dance Marathon for the benefit of Muscular Dystrophy on April 6, 7 and R. 
The next meeting of the Board will be on Tuesday, February, 13 at 7:00p.m. 
Members of the board attending the meeting were Anthony Abowd. Floyd Kezele. Dennis "H-Man" Etienne. and .James Hunt. 

1723 So~ Bend Ave. 
*Tappers in 

Call ahead 272-9800 
RED TAG BEER SPECIAL 
N 0 W 0 N We will meet any locally advertised price discount 
L IQ U 0 R & WINE BY THE CASE 
Jim -class of '63 Chuck -class of '65 
stock for kegs 
Near Eastern Languages of the 
University of California 
lBerkeleyl as well as a ·professor 
in Berkeley's famed Graduate 
Tehological Union. 

Guest lectureres and other 
specialists complete the in­
structional staff for this seminar. 
The seminar program concludes 
with visits to Istanbul's famed 
mosques and the Topkapi museum 
with its fabulous collections of 
china, jewels, and other works of 
Turkish art, and a thrilling trip up 
the Bosporus to the entrance of the 
Black Sea. 

For additional details, contact 
~·our overseas study advisor or 
Hev. Albert Schlitzer, (6340) who is 
a member of the Institute's Board 
of Advisors. or write Prof. Victor 
H. Gold. Executive Director. 2770 !\Iarin Avenue. Berkeley, California, 94708, or call (415l 524­5264. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by "the students of the L1niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub­scriptions may be purchased for SB per semester ( 14 per year) from The Ob­server, t'ox Q, Notre Dame, 1ndiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre 
Dame, Ind. 46556. 

JACKSON HOLE SKI TRIP MEETING: 
Thursday 8:3 0 LaFortune (Sign-ups and Information) 
For Further Details Call 234-7245 



says 

When it comes to pianos. we wilt do just about anything. , If we can't fJO it. we will try to find someone who does. 
Call me now for an appointment 674-9335 


~Piano Pete'' 
u.s. 20 Osceola, Indiana 
Quality Tuning and Repairing 


Wash 'N Wear TROUSERS 
at savings of 
~r~~~nnmrrrlllllltrll' 
1%1 
itiNNIIJIIIU~ 
You'll recognize the names!­
('hoose from stripes and 
fancies in a good selection of 
flare styles. It's vour kind of 
slacks at your kii-ld of price. 


PAY NEXT SUMMER 
Pay ont third in .June, one 
one third in .July and one third in August. <when paying is most convenient>. No service or carrying charge is ever added to your account. 


Our Savings Event Continues !! 
The savings just keep on coming•.• 

SAVE BIG ON 
JACKETS and CPO'S 
.SWEATERS AND SHIRTS FLANNEL SHIRTS DOUBLE KNIT SUITS SPORTCOATS Bl KE STUFF by Robert 
Bruce SUBURBAN COATS AND MUCH MORE. COME. SEE. 
ON THE CAMPUS ..• NOTRE DAME 


--------------~-------------­
Wednesday, Febuary 7, 1973 the observer 
3 




1n Fisher

Students foil robbery • 
by Bill Sabin Staff Reporter 

Three students foiled a robbery attempt at Fisher Hall Food Sales !l p.m. last night. but were unable to apprehend the would-be thieves. 
The students ..Jim March, Carter Tackett. and Alfredo Andrade, were in the study lounge in the basement of Fisher Hall when they heard a loud crash outside the room. Bunning into the hallway, they discovered that the top doors to the Food-Sales room .which is directlv across the hall from the study iounge. had been kicked in and that one of the intruders had alreadv climbed in the room while the two others were still in the rorridor. 
The two in the corridor im­nwdiatelv ran out of the hall and Tarkett ~·as able to grab hold of 
by Mike Welby Staff Reporter 

Bichard Hosenthal, St. .Joseph Bank official. spoke on the topic of ··How much are you worth?" last night in Carroll Hall. His talk was the first in a series of 13 lectures sponsored by the Economics and Business Departments of St. 1\lary's College. 
"Many of the processes of training do not include something relatively basic so that the head of a household might plan his or her own future. I think this is the real basis of this kind of thirteen week program." Rosenthal said as he addressed the primarily female audience. 
Bosenthal. the chairman of the hoard of St. .Joseph's Bank, went on to make the comparison bet­,,·een a working man or woman and an asset. "The idea to consider is whether you an• going to be an appreciating asset or. as is common for assets, a deprecia ling asset." 
"\low long will you be an apreci<lting asset?" Rosenthal asked. He stated that a college graduate today can expect to earn lwtween $500,000 and one million dollars during the course of their lifE'times. 
The former Notre Dame 
graduate emphasized the im­
portance of saving. 
"As a general rule people should 
try to save about 10 percent of what 
they make. Ifyou do this thing that 
I am suggesting religiously and 
You have no other source of in­
come. by the time you leave the 
work force at the age of 59 you will 
have developed an estate of 
$261.000." mosenthal is taking 
$20,000 to be the annual income of a 
eollege graduate.) 
While he agreed that saving is 
not always easy, Rosenthal ex­
pressed the belief that saving is 
easier if you pay yourself first. "If 
you pay yourself first, the money 
will always be there. If you pay 
Cleveland appointed Black Studies 
head here at 

The appointment of Granville_ Cleveland as acting director of the Program of Black Studies at the University of Notre Dame was announced by Fr..James T. Burtchaell. provost. Cleveland presently serves as assistant librarian for the Law School and chairman of Black Student Affairs Committ.PP 
The new actiong director suc­ceeds Dr. Wesley W. Daley who has returned to his native .Jamaica to accept a top government manpower position in that government's transition from British to .Jamaican leadership. 
Daley was an assistant professor the third as he left the Food-Sales room. However, the students feared the intruder might be ar­med and did not wish to struggle with them. so all three were able to escape. 
March was the first of several students to run out of the hall in pursuit of the intruders. He chased the one Tackett had grabbed across the Main Quad and between Badin and Howard Halls. "Then he turned and ran between Walsh and Sorin." March related, a"and the last Isaw he was heading towards the Huddle." March was unable to catch him because he was too far behind. and, as he ad­ded: "He was a fast runner." 
In the meantime. Tony Amenta, who lives around the corner from the Study Lounge in Fisher, had ht•ard the commotion and had discovered what had happened. lie immediately called Security 
Rosentha : " try save about 10 percent of what they 
make."  
Yourself  last.  it  will  never  be  
ihere." he said.  
Hosenthal  went  on  to  recom­ 

mend investment of savings ad­ding that investment was best left up to those who specialize in it. He stressed the importance of not o\'er-diversifying when investing in stocks. bonds. real estate, etc. 
Hosenthal added that these pitfalls in investment could be Pasily avoided by leaving one's investment matters in the hands of a competent professional. 
Continuing in his overview of the major points that will be looked at specifically during this lecture series. Rosenthal considered the problems of preserving an estate once it has been developed. One sure investment noted was real estate. values of which "almost always go up." 
As major ideas in the preser­vation of an estate, Rosenthal advocated trust funds, both short and long term, mutual funds, and comingling finds. These ideas help to alleviate some of the burdens taxation puts on a large estate. 
Hosenthal also recommend thorough familiarity with one's bank. A bank can provide dependable advice if there is a familiarity between the saver and the bank. 
Notre Dame 
of government at Notre Dame where he was serving as Black Studies director in the absence of Dr. .Joseph Scott, associate professor of sociology and an­thropology, presently completing a year's leave of absence to serve as il visiting professor at Evadon University in Nigeria, Africa, under a Rockefeller grant. 
In the announcement of Cleveland's appointment, Father Burtchaell pointed to the "very significant leadership" exhibited by the new acting director in the concern for black student affairs, and expressed his confidence that this would be extended to the academic program. 
and ran out of the hall himself in \'ain pursuit of the other two suspects, who had run towards the lakes. Hall President, Ron Paja noted that : "Security responded immediately." 
.Jim tZl Brennan, director of Fisher Hall Food Sales ·said no merchandise was missing because of the immediate intervention by the students and pointed out: "I've been keeping money out of that room since September." ­
There was some question about the existence of a fourth suspect, who. it was rumored, had been standing guard at the top of the stairs. But the Observer was unable to find anyone who could verify this. 
Immediately following the at­tempted burglary, Paja and .Joe Car. Vice-President of Fisher, announced that they would submit a plan for voluntary secuirty 

system" in which the two· side doors in Fisher would be locked after a certain time. At the main door would be a desk manned by a volunteer who would check all visitors to the hall at night. As of 10:30 p.m. last night,  THE WINERY 70Q Different Wines 2426 L. Way West Mishawaka 259-9046  
GAY AWARENESS: group of Gay Notre Dame Students, interested in gathering together inform ally to di,scuss mutual experiences and problems, within a pr:ivate atmosphere For information about the GAY AWARENESS community. C a 11 7 7 8 9 Wed., Thurs.,Fri. 8-10 p.m.  
MARDI GRAS STEPHAN CENTER TONIGHT 7-12 p.m.  

"The problem with this advice," Hosenthal mused, "Is that it is usually free, which leads people to discredit the value of the advice." 
In conclusion, Rosenthal noted 

Ithe importance of remaining loyal to one's goals, saying, "If you don't 
1 
change directions, you're going to 

I 
1
reach vour destination." 
Hosenthal is also a member of 

\ 
the University's President's Committee and was recently appointed to the Advisory Council or the College of Business A.P­ministration. 
The lecture series. entitled "All you e\'er wanted to know about 
finance--and now can ask," is intended to aid women in--their understanding of finances in dailly life. Topics will include income, credit. record keeping and home buying. 
The series is open to the public, and will be held each Tuesday through May 1 at 7 p.m. in Carroll Hall. Madeleva Memorial on St. Mary's campus. There is no ad­mission. 

SOC COMMISSION'S 

VALENTINE'S DAY PRESENT 
Has Been CHANGED From 
My Fair Lady To 


MARY 
QUEEN OF SCOTS 
Feb. 14 7:30 & 10 p.Dl. Eng. Aud. 
FREE 
measures at the next Hall Council Security had no information other meeting in Fisher. The two had than a description of the intruder just returned home from a Hall that Tackett had grabbed. The Presidents Council meeting, where intruder was described as a tall they had discussed campus black youth. about 18 to 20 years security. when the incident oc­old, with very short hair and a tan 
cured. shirt. Paja called for a "volunteer desk 
,
,
Rosenthal gives tips on finance 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS:  283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Wednesday, February 7, 1973 
Let's Hold The Check Book 
And we'll have fun, fun, fun, 'Till daddy takes the checkbook away. 
Newly appointed election committee chairman Paul Dziedzic, a former student body president candidate him­self, has offered a set of election rules which show some refreshing insight. But
r 
there's one real ringer in there--the idea 
r 
of subsidizing every candidate to the tune
i 
of $50. 
f Any candidate at all should be able to
r 
garner the necessary 100 signatures~ which would entitle him (or her) to fifty dollars worth of free parties. Especially
~ since there is presently no limit to how many petitions one can sign. After Bob Kerten's victory last year no one can argue that a party and a good time are not legitimate campaign expenses. 
Unless the election committee wants to leap into the messy business of deciding who is a serious condidate, it will be forced to underwrite every candidate who produces the requisite petition. That could be a considerable expense for the budget conscious student government. 
Moreover, it makes no difference 
whether this subsidy is given as a grant, a 
general credit or a credit with specific campus agencies {like campus press). The potential for abuse may be lessened in the last case but its still there. 
A different way 

A better alternative exists. $150 is too much to spend on a campaign for SBP. $100 or even $50 is still to much. As long as the election committee is considering allowing spending ceilings this high, Dziedzic is justified in worrying about the economic discrimination involved. In­stead, the committee should limit campaign spending to $25 and require the signatures of 200 students on the election petition. 
Since The Observer is already planning to offer a large amount of unrestricted space to SBP candidates (the exact amount per condidate depends on the number of candidates), the problem of reaching a large number of students at 
minimal cost would be solved. The expensive paraphernalia of campaigns past is simply not justified in a five day affair. It should come to an end. 
John Abowd 
1984: The Closed Door System 
Arthur Pears' visit to the HPC last night soothed some open wounds as he expressed his cerainty that suspects in · the recent campus robberies would be apprehended. The Security Director should be commended for going before the student body and putting himself in a situation where the attitude could be hostile and the questioning embarassing. 
However, Pears made a suggestion to cure the robbery problem that is not totally agreeable. He claimed that a closed dorm system should be instated with the dorms locked after 7: 00 and a guard positioned at the main entrance to allow residents access. 
The notion of instituting guarded halls is frightening at best. It smacks of Or­wellian 1984 and Big Brother and hopefully a university with the principals and philosophy that Notre Dame has would never feel inclined to make that 
daanesbury 
move. 

But it cannot be argued that the move would be ineffective. The primeexample is LaFortune Student Center. Crime in LaFortune has stopped since the in­
. stallation of a 24-hour guard. However, no one lives in LaFortune. No residents feel the sting of being guarded and placed in a quasi-military living quarter. And no residents feel their rights being imposed upon. 
Despite the strong implications of the idea, it should be left up to the individual halls if Pears in fact is serious about the proposition. No hall should be placed under guard if a majority of the residents oppose it. 
If left to the halls, its unlikely that any hall will be closed. The proposition is that repulsive. 
Jerry Lutkus 
Far What lt!ls Warth 


Black 

House 
dan ruane 

Sufficient evidence of a need for a "Black House" located off campus and funded by the University was not presented by the black students attending the Student Life Council meeting Monday. In addition. it is asking the University to make a special concession to the black community, which is not only economically impossible and legally impractical, but also unfair to the white community. 
Mike Nickerson's comment that it is the University's responsibility because there are social facilities which are made available for only white students is unfounded. What facilities on this campus are ex­clusively for whites? In fact, the black community has the closest thing to an exclusive social facility in the Cultural Arts Center in LaFortune. 
The center is open to whites, but very few if any use it. It is stocked with literature authored by blacks, charts of the economic, health and Pducation conditions of American blacks a floor size stereo unit, and a secretary. 
The students also argued that a "Black House" would improve parties by eliminating tension supposedly generated by the Notre Dame Stereotype at black men from South Bend. They claimed they would appear as just another member .of the local black population. 
In theory it sounds nice, but there are complications. First, h will be known that they are Notre Dame students, especially if the "Black House" consistently serves as a party house. Besides this, why can't Notre Dame blacks attend parties in South Bend? The second, and most formidable, is that it will be a house funded by the University and located in a South Bend residential area. 
Blacks would not have control of the house. The University probably would apply the same rules as applied to the dormitories, especially concerning parietals. The blacks complained Monday that visiting black women have no place to stay, but do they think the University would allow anyone to stay in the "Black House." 
In all likelihood these rules would be more stringently enforced than the rules on campus. This is so because the house would be separated from the University by the general public, which would subject Notre Dame to a greal deal of criticism and pressure if a party or some other social event got out of control. .It could be more harmful for the Notre Dame black in the long run in light of this consideration. 
Notre Dame would also be responsible for security, insurance, utilities, rent, and maintainence; unless the black students are able to shoulder some of the expenses. Certainly the University is in no position to support such a house. 
If blacks want a social center off campus they should pool their resources and rent one themselves. The University has no respon­sibility or legal authority to establish such a racially exclusive center. 
Notre Dame could do more to correct the minority social condition by actively seeking minority women in their recruitment program. 
In fact. it might be wise for the University to make the minority ratio equal, since the social conditions for whites are much better. This way Notre Dame can increase the number of women on campus, and improve the social plight of the minority student at the same time. 
It might also have the long range effect of encouraging high school minority students to apply to Notre Dame, thus making it feasible to improve the white to minority ratio. This would do much to reduce the dichotomy of cultures which now exists. 
The black students raised two immediate issues at the SLC meeting which should be mvestigated. The first is security checks of blacks for identification. Black students are in an unfortunate position because of the frequent involvement of nonstudent blacks in campus crime, espcially in recent weeks. Security cannot afford to let any more incidents go unanswered, or even have the opportunity to occur. They are not overreacting to the situation by asking blacks to identify tlhemselves. However, Security has been unnecessarily slack in checking white students for identification. They should be checking, but they are not. Why not? 
The other issue is the impact of President Nixon's educational cutbacks. The University will only hurt itself if it does not maintain present levels of financial aid to minority students. Less money will mean fewer minority students, which only contributes to the dual cultures which now exist. 

'=larry trudeau the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Beth Hall Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis, Maria Gallagher Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
,11\ight Editor: Jack Frishkorn Ass't Night Editor: Susan Prendergast Layout: Albert D'Antonio 
Sports Night Editor: James E. Donaldson 
Typists: Diane Chermside, Howard Halle, John Flan. 
nigan, Dave Rust. Bcb Steinmetz 
Night Controller: Robert 'Nesh' Barringer 
Innocent Bystander: Cathy Hammel 

Wednesday, Febuary 7, 1973 the observer 
toys for your notre dame child 
Now that the Christmas rush (and the after-Christmas rush> is over, perhaps toys ran be sold that haven't had the hard-sell ram them down customers' throats. But one thing that the customer won't be able to huy is the kind of toy that's only offered once a ~·ear--the specialty item. 
l{ight after Christmas <about a week right after. in fact>, most department stores go through a metamorphosis that begins with semi yearly disease termed "Clearance Sale" and Pnds with a college-student­sans-a-Christmas-job's dream, the In­ventory. The Inventory usually sounds the death knell for the toy department as floor space is suddenly needed for plastic fireplaces or sex manuals. So it's out with all those now worthless toys that nobody wanted for one-tenth off. and it's down to two counters for the toy department until Barbie's spring fashions come out. 
At any rate. specialty toys are usually the first to go, merely because there are no longer any excuses for children to bribe their parents through self-guilt into giving them some expensive plaything. Hence, there is no longer a demand for toys "other than what Jimmy has." The kid is so glad to get anything at this point, he probably won't argue if he has twelve of them already. 
So what's all that got to do with the five toys pictured here? Not a whole hell of a lot, for most of these toys can still be had. But their special interest here is that they are all what the topic of discussion describes: specialty toys. 
What specialty? Why the Notre Dame variety, of course. These toys are sold in­nocently enough on their own, but if anyone in the toy industry would realize the potential of selling them as Notre Dame­type toys (perhaps even an ND crest could be painted on them somehow, they could be even sold as exclusive Bookstore com­modities! Just think of the prices they could take in !>, the possibilities become unlimited. 
But enough of this intellectual discussion. On to the toys: 
Odd bod 

First on our list is something called Odd­
bod. One of two types of a series called 
Squishies Ohe other one's a green witch for 
all you female libbers to attack), Oddbod is 
a miniature. uh. whichamacallit that invites 
the customer (or child> to squeeze him into 
.. hundreds of wild. weird faces." As if the 
one he starts out with isn't bad enough. 
Oddbod is of particular interest to Notre 
Dame students because of his ability to take 
a great deal of punishment that perhaps 
would normally go to your roomate for 
stealing a book you needed for a big test 
tomorrow. Or perhaps Oddbod could 
substitute for Father Hesburgh's head in the 
minds of various Farley residents. Kind of 
like a pass-around pack of Cracker-Jack. 
Each student can have him for one night and 
do his worst. Unfortunately, beating on 
Oddbod results in about the same thing as 
beating on Hesburgh--both seem to find 
some way to come out lily white and shining. 
One warning though: don't play Voodoo 
doll with Oddbod. Though his feet are 
stamped with the assurance that all he has 
is "harmless wax" inside, his "card" warns 
of his spotting carpets. Now you wouldn't 
want Father Hes--... Oddbod to mess up your 
room. would you? 
Cro-Magnon Woman 

Second on our list is exactly what it looks like: a one-thirteeth scale styrene plastic model of a Cro-Magnon Woman. Just what you've always wanted. And as Cro-Magnon as Raquel Welch's One Million B.C. This item is mainly meant for the lovelorn jock who can't quite ever get a date from those oh. so stuck-up SMC bHches or those new snobs in Badin and Walsh. 

You don't even have to wor, at it. She comes in six pieces that snap together without glue. All you gotta do then is paint her. and if you know anything about hot knives and plastic forming, she can become the girl of your dreams. Some of our more talented sculpters will find some way to even undress her, we're sure. 
After that, what you do with her is strictly up to you. One suggestion could be to plant her in Arthur Pear's office and then arrest him for parietals violations (try to get him with his shirt off--you'll have a better case). Or you could buy her companion, a one­thirteenth scale styrene plastic model of a Cro-Magnon man <he's that ugly brute Haque! grabbed as a mate in the flick), and start your very own race. Maybe they'll even name a university after your mother. 
Oh.  yeah.  can't  forget  the  two-headed  
snake that comes  in the kit.  The subtle  
implication might  be  a  little  over  some  

heads. but you can play with it anyway. This next one's for all you nostalgia nuts. 
You know who you are--you guys that watch every single episode of McKeever and the Colonel and play Dave Clark Five records in the afternoon. 
In case you can't tell, it's an (!range crate on a rollar skate. Now, that may be a bit before most students' times, but I'm sure nearly everybody's heard or seen them in shows like Little Rascals. 
So what's special about this one? Mostly the fact that it is not merely an orange crate. but that it is a kit that sells for $9.95 in a prominent Dallas department store. And for your $9.95, you get a complete kit of wooden planks to make a genuine beat-up orange crate plus a broken roller skate to make it roll. 
The Skate Crate, as it is called, could be ideal for the nostalgic Notre Dame student. Just imagine yourself whipping along the sloshy streets of duLac, passing wheelchairs and buildings alike. The wind streaming through your hair will be exhilirating and might even get you awake before you reach 0' Shag for that eight o'clock. The magnificent exercise, the toy's greatest selling point,might even give vou some beautiful Charley horses and ·leg muscle knots. Who knows what you're 
2. The Raquel Welch-style Cro magnon Woman, comprised of six snap together pieces 
joseph abel/ 
capable of? 
Now we come to our most important toy, one that is almost vital to the development of the proper Notre Dame spirit: Big Jim. 
The fad began four or five years ago by the infamous GI Joe, a fad that made it okay for boys to express their Walter Mitty-type fantasies in the form of transferal to dolls has finally reached a new peak. What is it that boys want to be most after a glorious soldier dying as a hero? Why, to be a superjock, of course. Well , Mattei finally realized this, and developed a --you guessed it--jock doll. 
Big Jim: the college athlete (he's not one of those greedy, despicable professionals who demand money in addition to glory;oh no! l who can pass footballs, hit baseballs, shoot baskets, aim pucks, break karate boards. kick soccerballs, ski, camp, fish, race (though without a car), and scuba dive, all better than any other athlete. At least that's what his instruction sheet says. Notre Dame should sign him up. 
What the doll actually does, though , is a bit different. You get him like you see him in the picture--without clothing, and with a few accessories: a baseball, a dum bell, an already-broken karate(;0 ard and a "muscle band." He really will bend into any dif­ferent position (even obscene ones), and when you flex his arm, his biceps will ex­pand and contract. He can throw, but Ara needn't hurry: and the karate board fits together too tight for him to break it again. He does have a magnificent body, though; one to make all potential superjocks drool with envy. 
-The problem of what to do with a jock doll 
is elementary with a Notre Dame student. 
Just give him one--he'll take it to the hockey 
game or to his section volleyball cham­
pionship game. Remember, it's not what he 
does with it, but how he plays the game that 
counts. 
Max dot 
Finally, we have a toy for the Notre Dame intellectual squad: a meditation device. Something to take the place of those old, tired belly buttons: a dot. 
Now this is no ordinary dot; it is a Peter 
Max dot. The reason we can't show it is that 
it is copyrighted and Max hasn't given us 
the copyright. We probably could print up 
our own dot, call it a Peter Max dot and let 
the resemblence give you the idea, but he 
•night call us on the boards for plagerism. But since he can't haul anyone to court for imagining what his dot is like, we've provided a white space for you. Just imagine a small black dot in the middle. Don'f worry; even a Notre Dame student can do that much. And watch out for Peter Max. 
That's about it for our little excursion into the toy department. Hope you found what you were looking for, If you did, send this page home to mummy and daddy (with the appropriate item circled of course) before St. Patrick's Day. Who knows what will be under your little shamrock that morning. 
above: 5. THE dot. 
3. A $9.95 wooden orange crate called Skate C'rate. 

(Staff photos by Joseph Abell 2nd Alan Branch) 


-----------------------~------­
... 
the observer Wednesday, Febuary 7, l973
6 

Dr. Biondo saves young boy 
by Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporter 
Swimming through freezing cold water and breaking thin ice, Dr. Charles Biondo, Notre Dame Assistant Professor of Music, helped save the life of thirteen ~·l·ar old Gregory Strychalski, who fell into Pinhook Park Lagoon last Sunday afternoon at about 5:15. Strychalski was making a futile attempt to save nine year old Charles Richardson from drowning. 
"I suppose it was an instant reaction." claimed Biondo. He said he first noticed six youths, walking across the lake in single file. from a window in his home which is approximately 300 yeards from the lagoon. A few seconds later. he saw only two boys and "n•alized there was trouble." 
Biondo then drove to the scene, while his wife called the police and the fire squad. He removed some of his clothing and tried to swim to the youth who was approximate!)' !lll feet away from the shore. Biondo swam 30 feet breaking thin il·e. but could not go any further because the ice was too thick. 
Biondo felt a car seat cushion behind his back, which an onlooker threw to him with about fifteen feet of rope. He made several attempts at throwing the cushion and rope to the boy. but could not reach him. 
Someone on the shore then 
pushed a ladder to Biondo on which 
he tried to shimmy across the ice. 
At this time. a student from In­
diana Vocational Technical 
College..John Lai, swam to Biondo 
and because he was lighter, 
crawled across the ice on his 
stomach to Strychalski. 
Lai picked the boy up by his 
shoulders while Biondo slid the 

Holl to discuss his new-book 'Jesus in Bad Company' tonight 
The author of the surprise best seller in Germany during 1971, Hev. Adolph Holl, will discuss the contents of his book, ".Jesus in Bad Company," at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the Memorial Library auditorium. The talk is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Com­
mission and is open to the public. 
Father Holl. in the book now translated into 10 languages, in­sists that the truth about .Jesus can he found only by locating him among the group that first at­tached itself to him -the heretics, innovators. fanatics, fugitives from the world, revolutionaries, neurotics, fools, hysterics, mystics and saints. 

American Theologian Harvey Cos said of Holl's book: "What he writes is beyond any doubt the most informative, exasperating, readable, and original· book on .Jesus I have read in a decade. It is the result of expert research, shrewd imagination, and an unusual capacity for putting the 
0 n Iy Showing at N D ·S M C This Semester 

MY FAIR LADY 
SAT. FEB. 10 8 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium SMC 
ONE SHOW ONLY 

Admission $1.25 
ladder. rope and cushion to him. 
Lai and the boy then pulled 
themselves to the rope where 
Biondo hauled them into the shore. 
While fishing out Strychalski the rescuers did not see that another hoy who had fallen first was under the water. Charles Richardson's body was found drowned about forty minutes after the commotion. 
Two other youths who ac­l'Ompanied Strychalski and Hichardson also fell into the water about ten feet from the shoreline but managed to wade through the thin ice. The other two boys had walked only a short distance onto the ice before turning back. 
Biondo continued to say that ·•much of the situation was a coincidence." Had he not gotten home from a concert precisely at the time he did, and had he not glanced outside the window the minute he did, "it is quite possible that all six could have gone un­der." explained Biondo. 

Off-campus woman 
(continued from page I) 
"Also. the administration is 
limiting the number of women that can come here, restricting total enrollment by not letting those who want to move off and accepting ,more to live on campus," she continued. "I think they have an obligation to women students and I hope they will realize this them­selves and cease this disservice 
and manipulation." 
"We are individually and 
collectively considering the 
possibility of filing a complaint or 
helping any of the undergrads who 
want to get their full rights and still 
protect all concerned," concluded 
Snyder. 
two together." 
Father Holl is assistant professor of religious studies at the University of Vienna where he lectures in sociology, philosophy and history of religion. He is the author of several religious books and articles in journals. 
heretics. 
------------------------, 

FOR NOTRE DAME 

Spring
•

1n Spain 
e ROUND TRIP JET e ONE NIGHT IN PARIS 
e GROUND TRANSFERS e UNLIMITED ACTIVITY

with Paris 
e SIX NIGHTS IN MALAGA • NIGHT LIFE 
e LODGING e SIDE TRIPS (optional)

as a Bonus 
e FREE PARKING e GUIDES 

First Day, ................Depart from Chicago via a regularly scheduled Air France flight. Complimentary meals and beverages served on board. 
Second· Seventh Day....Arrival in Paris with a connecting flight to MALAGA. SPAIN. Transfer to apartments in TOR REMOLINOS-FUENGI ROLA via deluxe buses. Welcoming Sangria Party! Take a quaint Andulusian fishing village, nestled between the deep blue sea and the snow·capped Sl ERRA MOUNTAINS, add a touch of Moorish flavor, let simmer for five centuries lin· der the warm Mediterranean sun. Then blend with "fun and sun" seekers from all the rest of Europe, and you have TORREMOLINOS, a Spanish Specialty! 
Lodging .................. New apartments along the Meditterranean ... Private baths, kitchens and individual beds. Advantages of an apartment.plus the conveniences fo a hotel. Average, 4 per apartment. 
Free Car ................. Each group of four (4) persons participating will be provided with a rental car. (Gas and mileage not included). 
Activities ................ Sailing, fishing, swimming, tennis or jai-alai. Five great golf courses on the sea! Discover old castles, churches and villages. Ride a horse or rent a taxi burro or a Vespa. Take a walk along a beautiful beach or people watch from a terrace cafe. Don't miss an evening of "Canto Hondo" with Gypsy Flamenco performers· unforgettable! Many restaurants: budget to elegant. Food is varied and inexpensive ... fresh seafood is a specialty here! 
Optional Sidetrips .......To GRANADA. the ancient, mountain·top town of RONDA and exotic TANGIERS. 
Eighth Day ...............Depart Malaga for your flight to PARIS. Orientation Tour of this exciting city on arrival. Overnight in a good category hotel, all twin-bedded rooms with bath 
Ninth Day ............... Departure for home via Air France. Complimentary meals and beverages served on board. 
Guides .................. Multilingual guides to assist you during your stay in SPAIN and while in PAR IS. 
DEPART: CHICAGO-SATURDAY, MARCH 10 4:00PM 
RETURN: CHICAGO-SUNDAY, MARCH 18, 3:00PM 
9Days 

For additional information please contact: 
MR. CHRIS NYE-(219) 291-1741 
Only $272 
Plus Tax and Service $30.00 

$50.00 Deposit, Balance due by 30 days prior to departure/ For application see reverse side. 
APPLICATION FOR detach and mail SPRING IN SPAIN 
Ehg•blh1V 'Of th•' \fiP '' lim1ted to "udl'nU, 1Kultv. '''" tnd thetr tam•lr.s" ot lhlf abow~ named orpnuat•on Plene refer to Notahon u~r Tour Cond•t•ons 
PLEASE PRINT 

State 
Buson~u Phunf> 

I I Male ! I F•mal• I I Mo"'"" I , S•n<JI• 
I I Studt'nl 1 , Stiff 
OPTIONS; TWIN ROOM S3S 00 \Upp\Pmt>nt pt!r per\On, 
•f •villiblt 0 Chectc: here lor tw•n •ccommodlltons ind 
car for two lnformollt•on on un. •nwrinct-•nd optional s•dttflps sent at o~ later dill: 
TOUR PRICE Is S272.00 plus $30.00 tax. Minimum Deposit Is $50.00. In case of deposit the balance will be due prior to 30 (thlriy) days before departure. 
Enclos.ed '' Mv Cheek for S Make checks payible to (irut Lakes Tr•n•11 Co. Inc I hereby iffltSI that I QUiltfy tor the ibove ment•oned ifftnttv I'OUP 
llf under 21. s•gnature of p.rent or guard•tn) 
Hom"! Phonf' ROOMING PREFERENCE 
I w'"t to Room Woth 14 per apt. I 
(!),___________ 
(2) ___________ 
fl) ----------­
> 
~ ~ 
t:: 
Cl) 
~ ~ 
_, 0 
< ~ ~
...I 
::!: t.:l 
~ ~ 
CD..
·c; 
~ 
s: 
.~ 
.:: 
(.) 
..... 
.; 
<("' 
18, 
:.c
.., 
~ 
IIi
.., 
N N 


Wednesday, Febuary 7, 1973 the observer 
7 

'Mr. Dirt' for Senior Fe Ilow 
campaign, are Student Govern­
by Ed Ellis 
ment Off-Campus Commissioner
Associate Editor 
Bob Sauer and his Chief Dirtballs, .Jim Slosar. Gary Rufo. and Tim

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Vonderbrink. They have been indirt balls are uniting this week in a touch with Mobil, and hope to havedrive designed to bring Mobil Oil "Dirt" posters and tee-shirts forCorporation's "Mr. Dirt" to 
campus distrioution in the neareampus as the 1973 Senior Class 

future.

Fellow. "Mr. Dirt." known to fans as 
All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's"Dirt." is K.C. Esty, a former students and dirtballs are invited 
vaudeville comedian featured in 
to join the "Dirt Fan Club," bythe current Mobil Corporation calling Off-Campus office at 7755 advertising campaign. In the or by signing up at the office in the words of his admirers, he is basement. of LaFortune Student 
depicted as "the personification of Center. 
grease. grime, and filth" as he Sauer presented in his pressplugs Mobil products in nationwide conference yesterday two reasons television and magazine ads. 
for his support of dirt for SeniorThe leaders of the "Dirt Fan 

Fellow. Ecologically, "Dirt" is aClub," the organization which is Senior Fellow candidate: Mobile 

hero because he fights auto

leading the "Dirt for Fellow" Oil Corporation's "Mr. Dirt" 
Lecture series announced 

by James Rosini 
Staff Reporter 

Richard Rosenthal, Chairman of the· Board of St. .Joseph Bank and Trust Company opened a finance­oriented 12-part, Saint Mary's lecture series last night with a speech titles "What are you worth'?" 
The series. sponsored by the SMC Department of Economics and Business. is titles, "All You Ever Wanted to Know About Finance and Now Can Ask," and is open to all residents of the 1\lichiana area and members of the Saint Mary's College community. It is rlesigned to aid women in their understanding of the financial a;,pects of daily life. 
Dr. Farouk Muwakki. Chairman of Saint Mary's Economics Dt>partment and coordinator of the lecture series said. "We hope that this lecture series will give you a better working knowledge of the 
financial aspects of your daily
life." 
Well-known to the Sou th Bend eommunity, Resenthai is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame where he received in 1954 a 
B.S. degree in Flilance. During his eollege years at Notre Dame and 
l'O~~t. later graduated from the University of Wisconsin's Graduate School of Banking and from the Senior Bank Management School of Columbia University. After entering the banking profession in 1957, Rosenthal was named President and Chief Executive Officer of Saint .Joseph Bank. and in 1971 was elected Chairman of the Board of Direc­tors and Chief Executive Officer. 
The lectures will be held on consecutive Tuesdays, February 6 through May 1, 1973, at 7:00p.m. in Carroll Hall. Madeleva Memorial, Saint Mary's College, no admission charge. 
Future speakers for the series will include: 
February 13. 1973 Dollars flow in--dollars· flow out. Where, Oh where do they go? Speaker: to be announced. 
February 20, 1973 Records and Ht>cord Keeping for Effective Financial l\1 anagement, Scott Fetner. President of Associates, 
SUMMER JOBS 
Guys & Gals needed for summer employment at National PaJ'I(s. Private Camps, Dude Ranches and Resorts throughoot the na­tion. Over 35,000 students aided last year. For Free information on student assistance program send self-addressed STAMPED enve· lope to Opportunity Research. Dept. SJO. 55 Flathead Drive. Kalispett, MT 59901. .... YOU MUST APPLY EARLY ..... 
South Bend 
February 27, 1973 Your home: To buy or not to buy, .John Gill, President of Tower Federal Savings and Loan Association, South Bend. 
March 6, 1973 How and where do you channel your savings'?, Dr. .John R. Malone, Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, University of Notre Dame. 
March 20, 1973 Fundamentals of 
Investing, Anne Iordanich, Bache 
& C'o., South Bend. 
l\Iarch 27, 1973 Your Portfolio: 
A l\lixed Bag, Speaker: to be 
announced 
April 3, 1973 Are you Properly Insured'? Speaker: to be an­nounced 
April 10, 1973 Taxes: Our Mutual Share in Society, Speaker: Dr..John Kromkowski, Director of Human Resources & Economic Development, South Bend 
April 17, 1973: Retiring Graciously, Speaker: Roy E. Gillie:., C.P.A., Partner: Peat, Marwick. Mitchell & Co. 
April 24. 1973 Where There's a 
Will. .James F. Thornburg, At­
torney. South Bend 
May 1, 1973 Wrap Up, Summary 
and Conclusion, Dr. Farouk 
Muwakki. Chair-an, Department 
of Economics anu Business, Saint 
1\Jary's College. 

Dr. Waddell to lecture 
Dr..Jack 0. Waddell, visiting lecturer from The American Anthropological Association will speak on "Third World Peoples as Cultural Brokers in Interpreting and Changing American Culture", 
w d d
at 7:30 p.m., e nes ay,February 7. 1973, in Carroll Hall, 1\ladeleva Memorial. Saint Mary's 
College. This lecture, part of the College's continuing series, "The American Scene: A Cultural Series." is open to the public. 
Dr. Waddell, who is involved 
later with the Fort Wayne Pistons with the impact of third world 
ot the NBA. Mr. Rosenthal was 
known as a terror on the basketball Ame n d t 
peoples on American culture stated. "I have personally been raising a number of questions about the positive impact on American Society when we more l'ully allow ourselves to yield our eherished positions as interpreters and guardians of the lives of others, and," he stresses, "permit ourselves. our institutions and our basic assumptions to be in­terpreted and perhaps changed by those whose ways we have hitherto chosen to interpret." 

men being debated 
by R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 
The men and women under the (~olden Dome have long wondered about the coming of the great m~·th. There has been starry-eyed legal speculation of a time when a Notre Dame student could aquire alcoholic refreshment somewhere this side of Michigan. The time of the coming of the myth may be close at hand. 
The pending 20-year old drinking age bill in the Indiana State Legislature is presently open for amendment. Dr. Philip Faccenda, Acting Vice-President of Student Affairs. at Notre Dame, has been asked to speak on behalf of an 18­,·ear old amendment to the bill. 
While refusing to be quoted on his opinions regarding the success of the amendment, Dr. Faccenda expressed much enthusiasm about the hear:ing. 
When questioned about a student lobbying trip to the Indiana State Legislature. Student Body Vice President Dennis Etienne com­mented that Dr. Faccenda's presence at the hearing will be sufficient representation for the present. Etienne further hinted that the committee reviewing the amendment will most likely compromise at a 19-year old drinking age. 
Republican Governor Otis Bowen has said that the rights of 18-year old legal responsibility should be complemented by an 18­~·ear old drinking age. If the southern Indiana representatives can be persuaded, the myth will indeed become a 1~eality and the thirsts of Notre Dame students will at last be quenched. 

ABBEY IS HAPPY 
to announce our new budget motel in 
South Bend. Lovely rooms at ~ow cost. $10.00 single $12.. 50 double Friendly happy atmosphere·· 
Send your friends and relatives 
g 
ABBEY INNS OF AMERICA 52825 U.S. 31 N South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-9000 (next to the Boars Head) pollution through his advertizing campaign. More important, noted Sauer. is the fact that "Dirt" is "A man we can all look up to and identify with." 

"He,.s a free spirit," the Off­Campus Commissioner continued, "He is what every Notre Dame senior would like to be." 
"Past recipients of the award have been men like .John and Robert Kennedy, Richard Nixon, and Allard Lowenstein," observed Sauer, "and we think it's high time dirt took its righful place alongside men of this calibre." 
The leaders of the new groups add· they plan an extensive cam­paign in order to get their man the Senior Fellow Award. '"The forces of good and 'cleanliness are against us," stated Slosar, "but through a long and arduous campaign we are confident that the forces of grime and slut will overcome." 
Negotiations are now being carried on to bring "Dirt" to campus for his award, or possibly even before the award is given. "Dirtballs Unite" will be one of the Ban Club's slogans, and there is a chance, according to Sauer, that "Dirt" could lead the annual Notre Dame Spring panty raid. 
"It all depends on the grassroots strength of the dirtball movement on campus," Sauer concluded. "With dirt behind us, we could turn this into a landslide." · 

l 
4 
I 
.. J 
J 
i 
.. j 
4 
1 
~ 
... 
8 

the observer Wednesday, February 7, 1973 
MSU cagers invade ACC 
by Vic Dorr 

A 16-point decision over Villanova and consecutive homecourt Iaughers against Xavier and Butler have lifted Notre Dame's basketball record to the .500 level for the second time this season. Tonight, in a third straight home game, the Irish will try to make their slate a winning one--for the first time in over a vl'ar. · The opponent in Notre Dame's break-even attempt will be the Spartans of Michigan State, a hot­and-cold team with a 10-6 record. I•:a rly-season losses to Kentucky t75-61il, South Carolina <83-64), and 1\1 iehigan <78-71) have marred MS\I's won-lost figures, but the Spartans, like the Irish, have been ahll' to survive their shaky start. 
Saturday night, MSU hosted the Iowa llawkeyes and survived in a seoring-fest to claim a 94-89 win. "WP got a tremendous all-around twrformance from our team in the second half," said Spartan coach Gus Ganakas. "Lindsay Hairston was excellent for us, and Mike Robinson was just superb. There's no question in my mind that he ( Hobinson) is a bona-fide All­America candidate." 

Hobinson, a 5-11 junior guard, is just that. He paced the Big Ten in scoring last year with a 27.2 average, and earned a first-team spot on the All-Big Ten squad. This year. his scoring is again hovering near the 27-point mark. .Joining Hobinson in the MSU backcourt is Coach t;anakas' son Gary, a 5-5 senior who averaged 4.8 ppg in 1971-72. 
Lindsay Hairston, a 6-7 forward, is in his first season with the Spartan varsity after a sensational freshman campaign. He led the Baby Spartans in scoring last season with a 29.9 matk, and also eollected 13 rebounds per game. The other forward spot is held down by 6-5 senior Allen Smith, a 

The Irish Eye 
:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::=::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::= Playoff Patter 
!Iockey is a fast-moving, quick-changing sport. The very nature of the gam(' prevents stagnation. So, it seems only natural that the WCHA standings are as subject to fluctuation as hockey itself. 
After posting an easy, 9-3, triumph over visiting North Dakota last Friday night, Notre Dame needed only to come upwith a similar effort Saturday to pick up four more points and grab third place in the WCHA. Instead. the Irish were stunned, 3-2, by a hard skating, good checking Sioux club that bore little resemblance to the North Dakota team that had lost its last five games. 
The defeat cost the Irish third place and left them clinging tenuously to a tie for fourth with Michigan Tech, which swept a home ice, eight-point series with Wisconsin. Notre Dame lost that hold last night, when Tech won a four-pointer at Colorado College. 
But the Irish still have plenty of time to win a spot in the league's top four and assure themselves of at least one home-ice playoff series. There are still eight games remaining on the schedule, worth 20 title points. Unfortunately, Notre Dame will play for 16 of those 20 points away from home. While the Irish have a 9-2 WCHA record at the ACC, they are only :l-5 on the road. 
"We're in a more difficult spot now than if we had won," coach "Lefty" Smith said. "It would be a lot nicer to have 16 points left at home, but we know that the job has to be done so we might as well do it on the road. Then it'll be all the sweeter." 
Saturday's loss to North Dakota was disappointing to the Irish, who had won nine of their previous 10 league games, but was hardly a crushing 
I .... blow to morale. "The kids still have a good attitude," Smith remarked. "They're not down. No one's going to be able to step over them. We still feel that if we play to the best of our ability, we're capable of going with anybody." 
"But we've got to be active," Smith continued. "We can't afford to slack off on our forechecking like we did against North Dakota." 
Notre Dame will begin its stretch drive next weekend at Colorado College in a four-point series. Although the Tigers are in ninth place and lost two earlier decisions to the Irish in the ACC, Smith isn't taking anything for granted. 
"Colorado College may be in ninth place," he said, "but everyone in the league is a potential threat." 
A stiffer test will come on the weekend of the 16th and 17th, when the Irish play Michigan State in East Lansing. Notre Dame embarrassed the Spartans twice at the ACC the weekend before the North Dakota series and it's a cinch that Amo Bessone's club will be looking for revenge. 
The Irish conclude their home schedule against perennial power 
Wisconsin. which handed Notre Dame two defeats in Madison in lkcember. on the 23rd and 24th in a four-point series. The Irish wind up the regular season with a crucial eight-point series the following weekend at Minnesota-Duluth. 
"Hight now, I'd say we had to win 18 of the remaining 20 points to be sure of a home playoff series," Smith figured. 
The way things go in the WCHA, that estimate is probably a little high, hut it's certain that the Irish can't afford to lose many more games, especially those four-pointers at Duluth. 
The situation is still very up in the c>.ir, though, as a glance at the remaining schedules of the contenders will show. 
Denver. currently leading the loop, has eight points left with Michigan Tech (four home, four away), four with Colorado College and an eight­point series at home against Michigan State. 
The third-place Spartans look forward, in addition to series with l)('nver and Notre Dame, to four points at Wisconsin and six at home, four with Colorado College and two with arch-rival Michigan. 
Te<'h. which climbed by Wisconsin into third with its win Monday night, Jic;ts. besides its games with Denver, a four-point series at North Dakota and a four-pointer on home ice with Michigan. 1 
Wisconsin is in good shape, playing for 16 of its remaining 20 points in the Dane County Coliseum, where the Badgers are unbeaten in 12 games this year. Only a visit to Notre Dame interrupts a home stand that in­dudes four-point series with Minnesota and Michigan State and an eight­pointer with Minnesota-Duluth. 
North Dakota and Minnesota still have an outside chance at making the top four. although they're seven and nine points, respectively, behind Notre Dame in the "points lost" department, with only 16 points left to play for. 
"The goal we'd still like to have," 1 Smith said, "is the championship or second place. We feel that we could win our last eight straight. \We'll have to see where we end up if we do." 
Things ought to be very interesting the rest of the way. As Smith says so often in practice, "Keep your head up!"---a lot of things will be hap­pening in the next few weeks. Hopefully, for Notre Dame, they'll all be good things. 
'71 transfer who averaged nine points and 5.6 rebounds a game in his first year at State. 
The fifth State starter is center Bill Kilgore, a 6-7, 211-pound senior. A two-year monogram winner, Kilgore was MSU's number-two scorer last year 04.8 ppgl and led his team in reboun­ding (11.1 l. 
''Robinson," observed ND coach Digger Phelps, "has to be one of the better guards in the country. lie has great quickness and is one of the pure shooters in college basketball. When you team him up with Hairston and Kilgore, both of whom can shoot and rebound with great consistency, you have a big defensive problem." 
Frank McLaughlin, one of NO's two assistant coaches, echoed Phelps' concerns. "They've got good forwards and good guards," said McLaughlin. "If Robinson is on. he alone can give us a battle. !Gary> Ganakas is a good play­making guard who does a great job for their team. And Smith," continued McLaughlin, "con­taining Smith will be essential. That will depend on how effective we ean be on the front line." 
Notre Dame leads the series hetw('en the two teams, 59-33, but the Spartans have won five of the last six meetings, including last ~·ear's 98-74 decision at East Lansing. The last Irish victory came in 1971, when ND won--at home--104-80. 
Michigan State returns four 
starters from the team that easil•· Brokaw and (.John) Shumate. I handled ND last year, and junior expect it to be a hotly contested Gary Novak is the only returning game--much like the Big Ten starter for the Irish. But Gus games we've played so far this Ganakas, the MSU coach, is wary year--and of course the Michigan of Notre Dame's crew of rapidly­State-Notre Dame rivalry will play improving sophomores. a big part. I'm looking for a very 
"Notre Dame has a very good partisan crowd. team," said Ganakas. "They've "But we'll be looking to play the got great board strength and good game," he said, "and we're hoping 
Bad weekend for NO 
by Tom McKenney 

Tiw Notre Dame track team had a disappointing weekend losing 84­52 in a dual meet at Northwestern University Friday night and failing to place any individuals in the C'leveland Knights of Columbus invitational meet on Saturday. 
The Irish managed only three first place finishes in Friday's contest at Evanston including Tom McMannon's 6.4 second effort in the 50 yard hurdles and Mike Housley's I :56.0 performance in the 880 vard run. The other Irish first caine in the shot put where Notre Dame swept the com­petition. Willy George took first place honors with a 48' 3" throw. Freshman AI Wojciak placed second while teammate Mark Sloan picked up the third position to complete the sweep. 
The Irish held a slight edge over the Wildcats in the field events winning 8 of the 14 places awarded. 
George Huntoon's 6' 2" effort in the high jurrq:hrou_Kht him a second place for the only Irish place in that event. Ron DePetris leaped 20' 21 1" for a second in the long jump. 
WCHA Standings 
Pis Pts Pis. 

W L TW• Lest Rem. GF Ga 
Drnver ... 15 5 0 :Ill 14 20 104. 64 
Midi St. . 12 4 I 35 II Z6 85 72 
WISCOII5in 13 I l 33 II 20 95 75 
1\i .. D....... 12 8 8 30 %2 20 102 84 
Mkh T. . 18 7 I 30 22 20 91 71 
N. Dakota II 10 I 27 2t 16 !II 104 Mlnll4!50ta .7 II 3 25 31 16 72 T1 III.Duluth .. 9 II 0 18 2C 28 87 88 Colo. Col. . 3 II 0 10 38 24 76 Ill Midligan .. 3 18 I 8 4% 22 81 I3Z 
WEEKEND RESULTS Notre Dame 9-3, Nonh Dakota 3·3 Drnver 7-7, Colorado College 2·5 Mkhlgan Tech 7-5, Wisconsin 1·3 llin114!sota 3-5, Minn.-Duluth 2-7 Michigan State &-~. Michigan 5-5 
GAME WEDNESDAY Michigan Tecb at Denver (%) GAME THURSDAY Michigan Tech at Denver (2) 

WEEKEND SERIES Notre Dame at Colorado College (4) Michigan State at Wisconsin (4) Nonh Dakota at Minnesota (4) Minn ·Duluth at Michigan (8) 

perimeter shooting with <Gary) it'll provide us with some late­
Tom McMannon came in second in the triple jump and Mike Hogan and .Jay Seth finished a respective secondand third in the pole vault to round out the field events scoring 
for Notre Dame. 
The Irish found the going tough in the running events, especially in the middle distances where they forfeited two sweeps to Nor­thwestern in the 300 and 440 yard dashes. 
Mike Housley complemented his first place finish in the 880 yard run by collecting second place in the mile run. Housley covered the mile distance in 4:17.2 and was followed by .Joe Yates who finished 
third for the Irish. 
Eric Penick was timed at 5.4 in 
the 50 yard dash and picked up a 
second place for the Irish with that 
l'ffort. 
Mike Gahagan was the only Irish thinclad to place in the 1000 yard run when he finished third with a time of 2:14.2. 
McMannon's 
hurdles was season momentum." 
The Spartans, following tonight's gaml'. travel to Michigan on Saturday and then host the Purdue Boilermakers a week later. The Irish will remain at home for Saturday's regionally televised game 11gainst LaSalle, and then will take to the road for four consecutive Eastern appearances. 
thin clads 
one-two Irish finish in that event that included .Jack Gerwe's not­ching second place honors with a time of li.8. 
.Junior Bill Phillips was the sole Irish trackman to place in the liOO yard dash when he finished a third with a time of 1:16.9. 
In the two mile run .Jeff Eichner !!l:21i.7l and Dan Dunne (9:27.2) finished second and third, respectively. 
The Notre Dame mile relay team of Gahagan. Housley, Yates and Duffy finished with a time of :l: :l2.3, a full 5 seconds behind the Wildcat quartet. 
In Saturday's meet at Cleveland the Irish thinclads failed to place anyone in the finals. Even Tom 1\lrMannon, Notre Dame's defending NCAA indoor hurdles ehamp. failed to win in his semi­final heat. Olympian Rod Milburn did make it out of his semi-final heat and went on to burn off a world record :5.8 in the 50 yard hurdle event. 
THIS FRIDAY 

,-,:­
at 8:00 
., 
Front Stage 
SOLD OUT 
ow selling seats 
I ~s;::.~· b eh in d s t a g e a t ~ $4.50 in the ACC Ticket Office 
...presentea cy Student Union ... 











