On The Inside 
Judicial Board ... see page 3 Nixon Popularity decline ... see page 5 




serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII No. 42 Wednesday, November 7, 1973 
Baranowski resigns 

HPC chairmanship 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
Fred Baranowski stunned the Hall Presidents 

Council last night by announcing his resignation as 
HPC chairman and as president of Holy Cross Hall. 
Baranowski explained that his voluntary resignation is part of a self-imposed punishment for committing "a serious violation against the university." 
After having been confronted with the violation, Baranowski had met several times with both his hall rector and the dean of students before reaching his final decision. 
Baranowski elaborated on the reasons for his reesignation in the following statement to his fellow HPC members: 
"Being a student leader involves more than merely serving as policy-maker or decision-maker. It involves living with guidelines that have been implemented; it involves exemplifying principles that are consistent with University regulations; and it involves a responsibility to be honest with oneself. 
"Beecause I have violated a serious University regulation, I feel it is my responsibility to be honest with myself and the University. Perhaps I could continue to function physically as a student leader; however, I function on more than a physical basis, as I hope people around have recognized. Thus, I am resigning as Chariman of the Hall Presidents Council and as President of Holy Cross Hall, effective im­mediately. 
"I do not wish to compromise myself or the university by remaining as a student leader when I have personally failed to uphold the values protected by the university regulations. It would be hypocritical of me to support those values and regulations in our deliberations while exempting myself from those in practice." 
Most of the hall presidents received the an­nouncement in silent shock. A few expressed their feelings. 
Chuck Cardillo, president of Keenan said, "I am very sorry to see that circumstances have forced Fred to resign. He put a lot of time and effort not only into running his own hall, but also into the extensive duties that are required of the HPC chairman beyond those of the average hall president. It is not easy to represent the interests of your own hall and still conduct the business of the HPC in an objective manner, but Fred managed to treat everyone fairly and with interest." 
Phil Byrne, president of Alumni, praised Baranowski for his ability to "provide the HPC with the leadership it needed and keep its business running smoothly." He pointed out, however, "Although we suffer a loss by his resignation, we will have to ban together, elect a new chairman, and continue on with the business of the HPC." 
HPC Executive Coordinator Pat McLaughlin ex­pressed his support of Baranowski, "Although I know it must have been an extremely difficult decision for him to make, I believe it was a good decision. Fred was a veryable chairman; he had a fine sense of direction as to where the HPC should go; and his leadership will be greatly missed. He had provided a long-needed bridge between the HPC and Student Government." 
The HPC will not officially meet during the next two weeks. It will resume activity after the Thanksgiving recess. At that time it will take up proceedings to elect a new chairmann. 
In other business, the HPC formed a committee to investigate the possibility of establishing a "party house" for those halls that do not have facilities for holding large poarties. 
The committee is headed by Ed Chute, president of Sorin and includes the following other presidents: Rich C)'Connor of Pangborn, Wally Gasior of Dillion, Bill Hake of Morrissey, Steve DeCoursey of Cavanaugh, and Phil Byrne of Alumni. 
Chute said that at least ten halls have no facilities for large parties. The committee will meet with Vice President for Student Mfairs Philip Faccenda and Assistant dean of Students Fr. Terence Lally as soon as possible. 
Student Body Prsident Mike Geisinger addressed the HPC meeting requesting its help in urging students to make use of the new shuttle-bus service offered by Student Government. 
(continued on page 7) 

Dr. Henry discusses problems 

by Paul Colgan Staff Reporter 
Dr. Edward Henry, President of St. Mary's discussed the problems of the college with about 35 seniors in Stapleton lounge last night. 
The topics of Dr. Henry's "personal contact" discussion ranged from a strong student concern with the quality of food in the dining hall to the academic and financial problems of a women's college. 
During the discussion Dr. Henry announced that next year the SMC and ND academic calendars will be the same. "You will both be coming to school a week earlier next year," Dr. Henry said. 
The discussion with the senior class was part of Dr. Henry's dialogue with the college. He holds a talk with each class once every year. The talks function as a means to improve relations bet­ween himself and the students, according to Dr. Henry. 
The SMC seniors began the discussion with a complaint about food. "We threw away several bowls of chili the other night because it tasted so bad," ex­claimed one student. 
Dr. Henry said he was unaware until now that any problems existed in the Saga food service. "There must be some im­provement from September when I received several petitions," Dr. Henry explained. "I thought it was OK until now." 
A few students felt they could go without the decorative parts of the meal such as salads and deserts in favor of increasing the amount of meat in the menu. 
Speaking as a former mess supervisor in the military, Dr. Henry said the extras were themost inexpensive parts of the menu. ":Saga is squeezed on their contract price by rising food costs." he explained. "They are trying to live within a contract price by reducing the amount of meat in the menu." 
Saga negotiated their current contract last year, and have been caught in a food price spiral that has raised costs nearly 18 per cent in the last six months according to Dr. Henry. 

Dr. Henry addresses Senior Class at St. Mary's 
Dr. Henry said he would look into the problem and asked the students to submit their com­plaints to Tom Novak at the dining hall. 
The problems of rising food costs led to a discussion of the rising financial burdens for the whole college. 
Because of the financial depression of colleges in America Dr. Henry felt that St. Mary's had to score on two points, enrollment and development, if it is to survive. 
Dr. Henry explained that 88 per cent of St. Mary's revenues come from tuition and fees. If enrollments go up they will provide a solid financial footing for the college. He admitted that SMC was currently on a tight budget because of enrollment drops after the merger attempt failed, but he expected to have a "full house" next year. "Our inquiries (for applications) are running 50 per cent over last year," he said. 
The problem with development is the fact that the student does not pay the full cost of her education. An additional $350,000 to $400,000 are needed from outside sources to support the college according to Dr. Henry. 
Raising the money is difficult because, first, St. Mary's is a women's college and second, it is a Catholic college. The prejudice against women and the lateness of of Catholic colleges in building endowments for their schools create these problems, Dr. Henry explained. "It has only been in the last decade that Catholic Colleges have raised money to build en­dowments." 
The need for development is highlighted by the fact that St. Mary's endowment is only $2% million, or one sixth of what it should be. Dr. Henry explained that for a college the size of St. Mary's it should have an en­dowment over $15 million. 
When questioned whether the enrollment problems of SMC had lowered the academic quality of entering freshmen, Dr. Henry countered, "I would dispute that point." He admitted that they lost a few superior choices but that the average quality of entering students has not changed con­siderably. 
Dr. Henry also emphasized that the quality of instructors has gone up at St. Mary's. "I think we have been more careful in screening professor in the the last 18 montsh than the previous 18." 
St. Mary's is currently seeking a foundation grant so that several faculty members can be retained over the summer to work ex­elusively on revamping courses and changing teaching methods, Dr. Henry announced. 
The calendar change announced ,meant that St. Mary's and Notre 
~
Dame will now have similar 
I
academic calendars. School will 
j
begin in the latter part of August. 
1
The details are to be announced 
1
later this month. 
Dr. Henry felt that St. Mary's had a better arrangement, but they bowed to pressure from Notre Dame and reached the agreement mentioned above. "We said we 
(continued on page 6) 


McGovern to speak here 
David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
Senator George S. McGovern will speak at Notre Dame next Sunday, November 11, at 8 p.m. in Stepan Center. McGovern comes to campus one year after his overwhelming loss to President Richard Nixon in the 1972 election. The Notre Dame appearance will be McGovern's only other trip,this year to anywhere but his native South Dakota, where he faces reelection to the Senate in 1974. 
Sunday's appearance will be McGovern's third visit to Notre Dame in recent years. He first came to Notre Dame in 1967, where he debated the Vietnam War with Senator Gail McGee of Wyoming. McGovern and McGee were both liberal Democrats, but McGee supported the Administration's war efforts, whereas McGovern had a record of opposition to the Vietnam War dating from 1963. 
At that time, McGovern said that the war was leaving America with "a limited amount of moral, in­tellectual and emotional energy we can apply to comestic problems." 
McGovern came again in 1967 to discuss his role in the upcoming presidential race of 1968. James Bogle, then professor of govern­ment at Notre Dame, was Midwest coordinator for McCarthy for President. He tried to persuade McGovern to oppose President Johnson in the 1968 South Dakota presidential primary as a favorite son and stand-in for Eugene McCarthy. 

McGovern decided to wait and see what Robert Kennedy would do, so he turned down Bogle's suggestion. Apparently Kennedy was thinking along the same lines, because after he was a candidate in 1968, Kennedytold columnist Jimmy Breslin that he would have stayed out of the race himself and worked for McGovern against Johnson and McCarthy if McGovern had decided to enter the race. 
McGovern's next came to Notre Dame in October of 1970 to cam­paign for Congressman John 
(continued on page 7) 

.-------------------------------------------~----~~ ----­
t 'r ' f l J' ''\ "' f I ,, t"~ ., ·~\ ,._,~ .....,.\'~ V';.')•·~t~·~·
the·o·bserver' wedn~~da-Y; Nov~.:nber ·7; 1913 ·· 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Voters in New Jersey and Virginia chose new governors Tuesday in the first statewide elections since the Watergate and Agnew scandals burst on the political scene. 
With Republicans leaving office in both states, the Democrats had high hopes of increasing their national majority of 31-19 in gover­norships and scoring a resounding psychological victory over the beleaguered GOP.
warld There were also mayoral elections in New York City, Detroit, Minneapolis and a number of other cities, and referendums in New York and California. 
briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI>--President Nixon plans to address the nation Wednesday night on a "very acute" energy crisis now heightened by the Middle East conflict and prospects for a cold winter, White House aides said Tuesday. 
Nixon was expected to ask Congress for broad emergency powers to institute a rationing program if it is needed. Aides to the President said he was expected to request a lowering of automobile speed limits, temporary modification of clean air standards to allow wider use of coal, a cutback on airline schedules and other conservation measures. 


Nixon to fight skepticism 
By ED ROGERS demands for Nixon's resigna­"We are confident that they 

KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. {UPI) tion, will be set to rest by will show there are no missing -President Nixon, preparing testimony before Sirica 's court tapes and that the two to return to Washington, Tuesday in a renewed hearing conferences (with former White indicated through his aides on the tapes issue. House Counsel John W. Dean Monday that he was more Nixon was aware of the III and with former Attorneydetermined than ever to resist clamor for his resignation, the General John Mitchell) were 
pressure for his resignation. spokesman said. But interviews not recorded," Warren said. The President wound up his with Nixon's chief of staff, The issue of Nixon's credibili­
four-day stay at this oceanside Alexander M. Haig, adviser ty has centered on the retreat by meeting with his two Bryce Harlow and deputy press existence of the tapes of Watergate lawyers, Leonard secretary Garald L. Warren Nixon's Watergate-related con­Garment and J. Fred Buzhardt, drew a composite picture of a ferences with Dean last April 15 
to discuss strategy to combat President who was growing and with Mitchell on June 20,the public skepticism that arose more determined to continue in 1972. last week when they disclosed his job as the pressure on him With prospects of a winter 

that two of the Watergate tapes mounted. fuel shortage looming and new subpoenaed by U.S. District Before the session with his trouble erupting on the cease­Judge John J. Sirica never legal advisers, the President fire fronts in the Middle East,existed. conferred for an hour and a Nixon devoted some of his long
A spokesman predicted these half with and for an hour with work sessions at Key Biscaynedoubts, which prompted several 
his press secretary, Ronald L. to study of these problems, Ziegler. Warren said.
Lowenstein to While the President worked in his study during the weekend, he left it to these
speak in Keenan spokesmen to convey his responses to his critics and to
chapel tonight the American people. 
Warren told reporters the by Ann McCarry President has no plans to Cub Reporter address the nation by radio or Allard Lowenstein, former television, call a news conferen­
democratic representative from ce or use any other forum New York, will speak in the ex~ept forthcoming testimony Keenan Stanford Chapel tonight at in Judge's Sirica's hearings. 
8:00 An outspoken critic of the Nixon administration, Lowenstein will speak on the topic of "Nixon's America." 
Lowenstein is the 1970 winner of the Notre Dame Senior Fellow Award. He has also been named to the White House list of the top ten enemies, due to his criticism of Nixon before it was fashionable. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S8 per semester (Sl4 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. Second clas~ 
postage paid, Notre Dame, lnd 
46556. • 
an _campu• taday 
1:15 p.m. & 2: 20--film, "harvest of shame; ex­ploitation of black, white and chicano migrants," an edward r. murrow documen­tary, audio-visual center of cce, also at 7:30 
p.m. in black cultural arts center, Iafortune. 
3:25 p.m.--lecture, "small particle gas fluidized beds: dimensional analysis--theory and new new data," dr. r.p. oltrogge, room 269, chem. eng. bldg. 
8:oop.m. --lecture, allowenstein, n.y. legislator, keenan hall chapel. 
8:00 p.m.--lecture, "alexander solzhenitzyn," by vera dunham, little theater, moreau hall, smc. 
8 & 10:00 p.m.--film, "a star is born," george cukor, engineering aud. 
8:30 p.m.--lecture-discussion, the mbowamb of new guinea; an answer to sexual deviency? prof. ernest brandewie, library lounge. 
at nd-smc 


IN EVERYONE'S LIFE, THERE'S A 


SUMMER OF I 112 
3 SHOWiNCSI 7, 9, & 11 pftt. fr4GiNeER!t.C AIIDiTollilll'd 
ot.LY $1.00 
~RIDitq, NOV~MB(R 9 

Jlllllllll.lllllllllllllllllllllllll..llllllllllllllll!.lldllldlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll...lllllll' 
~ IN ELKHART • ONE NIGHTI 
i = I =
a Sat. Nov. JOth -7:30 pm a Pierre Moran Jr. High Gym
! Ron Salsbury & I = J.C. Power Outlet =
I I
America's Leading Gospel Music 5 and Recording Artists from 5
= 5
i California Gospel Enterprises ! 
5 To hear Ron Salsbury and J.C. Power Outlet is to hear music that has 
5

5 variety. From a driving rock number with an exciting lead guitar, to= the gentle three-part harmony of a musical pray~r, to a. handclapp~n', 55 = funky, footstompin' country music singalong, the1r mus1c Is a blessmg ­
I= and their message is always clear. • • i=·· 
Jesus Loves You. 
§$ Tickets available at Tempiins-Town & Country-i = = also in Elkhart at Templins, Huffs Pharmacy, = ~ ··Aiicks Drugs 1&2, Bethel Book Store. Admission ~ i $2.50 5: 
!ifmiiUIUUUIIHIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUfiiUIIIIIIIIIIUIIIUIIIUIUIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIUI-­
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Handsome. Warm. Rugged. Warm. Made by Woverine. Warm. Fleece lined. Warm. Built for Michiana weather. Warm. Handsome brown. Warm. $25.95. Warm. 

.-------------­

Judicial board to fill six positions 
-

Wednesday, November 7, 1973 
the observer 3, 
·.-' ' l : t '.f 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

The xix student positions on the University Judicial Board will be filled by November 19, according to Fred Syburg, chairman of the Student Life Council (SLC). 
The two student positions on the Judicial Appeals Board will also be filled by that time, he stated. 
"We're attempting to create a pool of people of judicial tern­perament for the board," Syburg explained."Until then, we are in a position to handle any cases which may come up," he added. 
The responsibility of choosing the membership of the judicial boards lies with the Rules Com­mitee of the SLC, Judicial Co­ordinator Dave Grimmer said. 
Students interested in serving on the board submitted their ap­plications a few weeks ago. The 
Security 
by AI Rutherford Staff Reporter 

Cam pus activities for the security department were relatively quiet this past weekend, according to Director Arthur Pears. Reports submitted ranged from stolen bikels to los t wallets. 
SMC student~s condition fair 
by Rick Scharf Staff Reporter 

Pamela Anne Waldeck remains in fair condition today in St. Joseph's Hospital according to hospital sources. Waldeck, a St. Mary's student, was struck by a car Friday night on the main road of St. Mary's campus while returning from Notre Dame. 
Suffering from a dislocated pelvis and head injuries, Waldeck continues to be kept in the in­tensive care unit of the hospital. Doctors will decide later in the week if Waldeck s hould be placed in traction, or can be flown home to California with her mother, who arrived in South Bend on Saturday. 
Waldeck was struck by a car allegedly driven by Peggy McDonough, also a St. Mary's student. McDonough reportedly was unaware that she had hit anyone. Indiana State Trooper Barry Edds stated that "the driver of the car was ticketed for failure of duties in an accident." Indiana law requires all drivers, in the event of an accident, to stop and render aid or assistance to any victims involved. 
Jordan Ford 
~09 East Jefferson Mishawaka 


applicants are currently being interviewed by the SLC. 
Next, the SLC will meet to discuss and select from the ap­plications, Grimmer stated. 
"Under the new rules, the boards consist of students, faculty, and administratio 
representatives," John Macheca, dean of students, saidd. 
Students accusec of violating university rules are given three options, Macheca stated. 
"He may choose to meet the dean of students on a one-to-one basis or meet with a hearing of­ficer mutually agreed upon or appear before the University Judicial Board," Macheca said. 
If either the student or the dean of students wishes to appeal the decision, the case is brought before the Judicial Appeals Board. 
An appeal of the recom­mendations of the Judicial Appeals 



has quiet 
Friday, November 2 

A car was reported stolent from D-2 parking lot. But it was later learned that four students had taken the car without the owner's pernuss10n. The students were sent to the Dean of Students pending further action. 
That night, six persons were evicted from the ACC for trespassing. No details were available as to whether charges were being placed. 
Saturday, November 3 

A compalint was registered against the hazards prevailing from the scaffolds erected near Cavanaught Hall. Students had tipped the scaffolds over earlier that afternoon. Three non­students were removed from the storm tunnel of Alumni earlier in the evening. 
A car was reported stolen but it was later changed to 'misparked'. Calls also came in about missing watch and a wallet. They were lost somewhere in the vicinity of the stadium during the Notre Dame­Navy football game. 
Sunday, November 4 A man reported losing a wallet in the lockerroom of the ACC. 
Two bikes were reported stolen. One of the bikes was taken from the bke rack outside of Lyons Hall on Saturday. A non-student repolrted his bike stolen from 
Dave rimmer Soard is reviewed by Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of the university. Grimmer attributed the student 

vveekend 
outisde the Huddle. Monday, November 5 An unlocked bike was reported stolen from Alumni Hall. 
A non-student reported that his car had been vandalized. A large scratch had been made on he trunk lid. Also, an unlocked car in the C­3 parking lot had its decal stolen. 
A ladies diamond ring was reported lost in Flanner sometime on Saturday. 
Beame wins NY mayor race 
NEW YORK-<UPI) Sixty-seven-year-old Abraham D. Beame was elected the first Jewish mayor of this city with the largest Jewish population in the world Tuesday night, leading the Democratic ticket in a citywide sweep. 
Beame, who succeeds the retiring John V. Lindsay, amassed a more than 3-to-1 lead over his nearest rival in a four-man field in early returns and headed for a 
landslide  that  would  carry  in  
virtually  all  his  city  running  
mates.  

With 11 per cent of the vote in, the short, white-haired Beame had 58 per cent compared to 18 pet cent for Republican John Marchi, his nearest foe. 
NEW! IN SOUTH BEND! OPENING FRI. NOV. 9 

THE ATTIC 
219-1/2 N. Michigan 
(ABOVE ROMA'S) 
HELP US CELEBRATE OUR GRAND OPENING FRI. AND SAT. NIGHT! 
LIVE MUSIC GREAT FOOD 
PETE SNAKE 9-1 MIXED DRINKS 
16 oz. beer BY THE PITCHER 
Tequila Sunrise Rum & Coke
50¢!! 
64 oz -4.25 

SEE YOU FRIDAY NIGHT! 
body's lack of utilization of the make the difference in the University Judicial Board to the decision." mistaken belief that the board is 1 He added that with a panel of deliberate in its decisions. . students, faculty and ad­
"The University Board always ' ministrative officials there is a reaches a decision within five days greater sensitivity to the needs of of the hearing," Grimmer noted. the community and the individual. "The board impartially views : "The purpose of the University cases independent of personal : Judicial Board is to have a par­biases and makes a judgement in ticular violator heard by a group of ac~ordance with the rules," people with different viewpoints Gnmmer stated. "The person's rather than by just one indivual," status in the community should not .. Grimmer stated. 
' Jim 
'63


~.~' ~'nmuy 

Chuck· 
'65

1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
Drummond Bros. Beer If you like Coor's --this is what you've been missing. 
A Distillery-Golden Exclusive From West of the Mississippi 
E:ASTON EDISON· LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 
10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE 

SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS WEEKEND AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money, too. over the increased standby air fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE­ ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU  
TO  WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
Ann Arbor  !1.80  16.75  11:25am  3:00pm  
Chicago  5.00  9.50  4:40pm  6:00pm  
Cleveland  13.45  25.60  1:45pm  7:10pm  
Detroit  10.50  19.95  3:50pm  8:55pm  
Toledo  8.20  15.60  7:45pm  4:35pm  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
Greyhound Bus Terminal 210 West Monroe 2876541 



Greyhound 
A change for the better 


------------------------------------~------~~-·--~------~··----­
•' 
THE OBSERVER P.O. Box Q 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Pressing penings of 4 years -1964 to 1968 ­Jerry Lutkus many of them not .very com­
Art Ferranti Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief plimentary to our University;
E.xecutive Editor Executive Editor the Issue 
With the recent meeting of theEditor: Planned Parenthood here theGranted, this is a topsy-turvy memory of a number of these
NEWS: 283-1715 world. 
events came back to mind. 

Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos Yet, I learned today <October 31) 
Now I myself ask: "What has Advertising Manage~ that even a jaded imagination can
Business Manager BUSINESS: ?113-7471 happened to Notre Dame?" Have
be boggled. And boggled mine was we given up the heritage weby Dr. Charles E. Rice's eloquent
Wednesday, November 7, 1973 always boasted of? Our Catholic 
comment on the University's heritage-is it dying ... dead? Why,noncommittal abortion stance. 
if we havenothingto hide, have weNeedless to say, it was not Rice's not responded to the legitimategentle but perceptive critique that request of the Ordinary of oursurprised me. What struck me as


0-C Bussing 
diocese, Bishop Leo A. Pursley?
more than passing strange was He has simply asked that we as athat it should ever be necessary to Catholic University make clear by petition this University to commit
Yesterday's announcement by Student allowing the students to foot the bill is declaration our stand on the issue of
itself to the unborn child's right to abortion. It would take only a-few 
Government of the activation of an off­unfortunate. First, they make it clear 
life. 

words -one or two short sen­
campus shuttle dus service is a move that many students who originally in­Sad to say, it is a fact that Dr. 
tences. Why, then do we sidestep
worthy of considerable applause. tended to live on campus would have to Rice did have to plead for a 
the matter by claiming that ourCongratulations should go out to Student change their plans and now they tell us commitment; happily, it is also a stand is ' obvious'; that nanature Government for their concern for the off­that they cannot afford to help cover the fact that his "request" was is a corporate stance." These
couched in low key, dignified but
campus students, a concern which the cost of a service designed to help those comments just given sound a bit
overpoweringly logical terms. 

like mere semantics. And surely
Administration of this school has not students. 
As Rice suggested, for any of us they do not clarify the issue, as the
mirrored. It is paradoxical attitudes like that 
it would require all of three Bishop has asked be done. His
Despite the help of Fr. Shilts, the Ad­which are <!onsistently baffling. Thanks seconds to decide on the morality 
Excellency has asked for a
ministration has really left the project up must go to Student Government for of sending Jews into the Auschwitz PUBLIC statement, no doubt, to Student Government. It is the SG that pledging themselves to help the students gas ovens. Is the abortion since the P .P Meeting is certainly 
situation really different?

is footing the bill through this month, a who cannot live in the dorms. a public happening. Why do you
Your move, Father Hesburgh
bill that we have to question their ability One note to the off campus students-­hesitate? Even though in your own
and Mr. Stephan. 

minds you should consider that a
to cover. At a dime a ride, it doesn't seem ride the bus. This next month is an ex­
public statement be not necessary,
possible that the fares could cover the perimental one and if it is determined Sincerely yours, 
still in obedience to the Ordinary of 
cost. As Mike Geisinger was reported that the bus is not used, the effort will go Charles W. McCollester our Diocese, the statement ought
saying in yesterday's issue, student to waste <md the bus service will be to be made, and without further 
government will lose money on it. discontinued. delay. Since the Bishop went to the
Another Rice 

The action of the administration in Jerry Lutkus trouble of making his request 
formal, it certainly suggests that

Supporter 

more than him alone are of the 
Dear Sir: same opinion. I certainly agree with him, and though mine is a wee


Joining in the Call 
Since you have permitted the voice in view of the Bishop's
article of Doctor Charles Rice to be position, I plead that in the name In response to a national student plea rather to establish a national voice of the subjected to the scrutiny and of all the alumni, Hierarchy,
student calling for impeachment. reaction of several members of the clerics, religious and laity of
engineered by the staff of the Amherst 
faculty of Notre Dame I hope that America -please give them the
Student · the student newspaper of In our decision to support this editorial, 
you may also find space to allow assurance they need.
Amherst College -The Observer's we join the staffs of the newspapers at 
me a few words. 

editorial board has decided to endorse a such schools as Princeton, Dartmouth, I am a priest member of the national college newspaper editorial Duke University of Chicago, Iowa State, Congregation of Holy Cross. I find Sincerely, calling for the impeachment of President University of Kentucky, University of it regretable that the Catholic Rev. W.A. Monaghan, C.S.C. Richard Nixon. As the staff of The Michigan, MIT, Stanford, Wisconsin and University of which I am an 
aluminas has not yet made a clear
Student explains, this editorial is not Yale among others, in our attempt to 
and public declaration on what the Paradox 
meant to stifle the individual cries for bring reason and justice back to the 
stand of the University is on the
impeachment that college newspapers government of our country. issue of abortion. Why? Has the 
of Wealth

have run, as did The Observer, but university something to hide, or is
The Editorial Board 

NOW, ON WITH THE INVESTIGATIOJII ••• 
daanesbur r:~arry trudeau 
~------------------~ 
f.IA, f.IA, HA, HA / 
W feU f'OI< THAT HI, 1H£RE! Nf/118&1< ?l H£~ H&£, H&£.1 YO(} 60/NG liVERYBOPY KNOWS THAT 
10 CAMW/A, JlL/... THE H!GffJRIC/It.. SITES 100? UH·HUH. IN CAMBOP!A HAV£ /...ON6 SINCE BEEN f)&STROY£1) BY 
801'185 ANI) PIRE-FI6HT5!
, 7~ ~-~ 
'l ~~~, 
NO.. NO.. 11Y /.../FE'S SAVINGS ... 
its stand to the right or to the left to Editor:
be decided by dialogue? There was a time when as I Juxtapositions. They can be somoved about the country meeting striking, can catch the sight andpeople and pastors and others that enlighten at a glance. AgnewI,with legitimate pride used to say denouncing amnesty; Agnewthat I was from Notre Dame -that squirming for leniency. IndigenceNotre Dame is the property of Holy and indulgence staring us in theCross Congregation. The name face, never looking at each otheralways brought from the hearers on the glass walls of a Campuswords or praise and Ministry Office. Indeed, thecongratulations, that I should have preachments of a Campussuch good fortune. 
Ministry Office under the tires of aBut since 1968 things have Notre Dame Mercedes; or thatchanged. Since then I have glass wall of compassion placedlearned to soft-pedal my con­next to an authentic 16th Centurynections with Notre Dame because Russian icon encased in gold andagain and again I have been jewels, too valuable for its localassailed with the query: "What is hoarder to allow it to be in a publicwrong with Note Dame?" "What is museum under oath of poverty .
wrong with the Ave Maria?" The Blue on gold and black on white.
Alumni of a large city were "The mouth is bitter, because thecompletely upset by things they heart believes so much."
found were going on here. I was given a stack of periodicals of Jim Braun 
Notre Dame that told of hap-
the observer 

Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn Ass't Night Editor: Tom Devine Day Editor: Jim Rosini Copy Editor: Greg Aiello Pix Man: Jerome Phillips Typists: Joe Abell, John Flan­nagan, Connie Fourre, Tom Modghin Compugraphic: Joe Abell Night Controller: t. j. clinton 
Goodbye to all and thanx 
.-------------------­
Wednesday, November 7, 1973 
the observer 

One year after landslide victory 
Nixon popularity still on decline 
Editor's note President Nixon won re-election by a landslide of historic dimensions a year ago this week and was endorsed by 61 per cent of the American electorate. But this weekend the Gallup poll showed his popular support had toboganned to just 27 per cent because of the events of Watergate. The · following article tells of Nixon's promises and hopes of then and the realities he faces now. 
By ROBERT J. TAYLOR 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -One year ago, a seemingly confident and very much in charge Richard Nixon outlined a second tern1 progran1 of open government dedicated to inter­nal reform that would regener­ate a spirit of national greatness. 
Permissiveness and a govern­ment that promised more than could be delivered had brought the nation to "a very great spiritual crisis" in the late 1960s, as he saw it. 
But a leaner government that asked more of its citizens would nurture "a new spirit of independence, self-reliance, pride, that I sense in the American people," Nixon said. 
Nixon could justifiably be positive about his intentions and commanding in his sense of leadership in that extraordinary Nov. 5 interview. 
His $60 million re-election campaign was at an end with polls showing a landslide victory in store-a mandate to conduct government his way that could not be denied. He enjoyed the editorial support of over 70 per cent of the nation's newspapers. 
The polls were right. Two days later, a curiously subdued Richard Nixon retired in solitude to a White House study and, while his family partied in another room, sat by a crackling fireplace and me­thodically made notes on a yellow legal pad as election returns came in. 
They added up to the greatest presidential electoral plurality in history, a sweep of every state but one, a percentage of the vote just a hair below the all-time record. 
In the only poll that really counts, Nixon found his leader­ship approved by better than 61 per cent of the American voters. 
The victory was impressive, but from Nixon's perspective not perfect. The "new Ameri­can majority" he had sought to weld together from the suburbs and the South proved on analysis likely to be a one-shot coalition good at the presiden­tial level only. 
He did not carry either house of Congress. His party lost a governorship. And Republican National Chairman Bob Dole, suggested it was a Nixon victory, but not a party win. 
The President told a caller that where he had expected to feel elation over his massive victory, he instead had ex­perienced an emotional let­down. 
Nixon promised on the 1972 election eve: "We are going to continue to play a great role in the world because that is the only way you can have the peace we talk about." 
And he pledged that by boosting the forces of law and order, appointing stricter jud­ges, he would deal with problems such as crimes and drugs that "came as a result of those of us who basically have 
ND jazz band presents 
First jazz concert 
On Thursday, Nov. 8th, the first of this year's informal "Jazz at Nine" concerts will take place under the sponsorship of the Notre ·Dame Jazz Band, in the main lounge of LaFortune on Thursday at 9:00p.m. 
Featured on this program will be the NDJB Combo I in a varied program of jazz, rock and jazz­rock. Compositions will include John Coltrane's "Tunji", Les McCann's "Beaux J. Poo Boo" from the Invitation to Openness album and an original composition by group trombonist Nick Talarico called "Floater". 
Members and soloists in the 
group beside Talarico include 
Charles Rohrs on tenor sax, John 
Yakacki and Neil Gillespie on 
piano and organ, Bill Boris on 
guitar, Mike Nickerson on bass 
and Ken Scarola on drums. 
The NDJB program under the direction of Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C., is being ex­panded this year with the for­mation of the NDJB Combo II in addition to the Big Band. Both of these groups will appear in concert shortly. 
Beginning this Friday the non-stop Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago will depart at 4:55. Two buses return on Sunday. Call Tom Boyer, 272-1807 for in­
formation. 


§00,...()~

SAVE $100°0 ~~~~ 
421 Hickory Rd. 

a responsibility of leadership not recognizing that above everything else you must not weaken a people's character." 
Further, he would trim a "bloated" bureauacy he said was "too big" and "too expensive." "Massive hand­outs" to the people would stop, Nixon promised. 
"The people are going to have to carry their share of the load. The average American is just like the child in the family. You give him some responsibili­ty and he is going to amount to something. He is going to do something. If, on the other hand, you make him completely dependent and pamper him and cater to him too much, you are going to make him soft, spoiled and eventually a very weak individual." 
Nixon retired to Camp David in the fall and reshuffled if not actually reduced the top echel­on bureaucracy. He ended American involvement in the Vietnam War, partially by renewed massive bombing of North Vietnam. The prisoners of war came home. A legisla­tive program bearing his intentions to reduce or discard a host of federal social programs was prepared for Congress. 
His midwinter mandate, as measured by opinion polls, was 68 per cent-a near record high for any President. 
And then came Watergate. 
In short order the nearly dormant scandal over the June, 1972, burglary and bugging of Democratic National Headquar­ters 
complicity in high White House circles and a million dollar cover-up. 
Nixon was forced to dismiss his closest associates. 
The Senate Watergate hear­ings began. Questions were raised about government expen­ditures on improvements of Nixon properties. The special Watergate prosecutor eyed ille­gal campaign contributions from milk men and others. Nixon's two-time running mate Spiro T. Agnew, pleaded n~ contest to income tax evasion in October and had to resign as vice President amid political kickback charges. 
On Aug. 17, public approval of Nixon's conduct of office, measured by a poll, stood at 38 per cent. A study by Congres­sional Quarterly disclosed that while Nixon was able to keep Congress from running away from him , there had been deep increased. It was easier to ge· one-third support against over riding a veto than majorit) support for the President's owr program. 
erosion usually  of support amonf dependable Repub­ 
licans.  Legislation  by  vet<  

Nixon was forced again anc:i again to explain and defend his role in Watergate. The cour1 fight over his secret WatergatE tapes went on. The firing of th( special prosecutor. The necessi ty of giving in. Two tape~ missing. 
Sunday, the Gallup pol reported popular support for Nixon in mid-October stood at just 27 per cent. Sixty per ceni of the public disapproved. 
And Sunday, the New York Times joined a growing list of newspapers calling for Nixon's resignation. 
Vtrttfont 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 

Wednesday, November 7, H'73

the observer 
''} '1,"'·'.''"" ... ,,,'f ,'~~ .. -·.,j. ,·~ 

Lloyd heads new heart research 
by Zenon Bidzinski valves, Lloyd explained, need 
Staff Reporter revision because they contribute to 
anemaia nd-or thrombus or 

A new heart valve is being material build-ups in the valve. 
developed in the Department of Termed occluder valves because Aerospace and Mechanical they employ a ball or dis<: to Engineering. Assistant Professor regulate blood flow, these valves Dr. John R. Lloyd, currently force blood to move around the ball 
heading the research at Notre or disc. Dame, hopes to have test models The flow pattern in occluder ready by mid 1974. valves cause three major
The valve is a funnel-shaped, tri­problems, according to Lloyd.leaflet mechanism modeled after First, they produce high teamingthe tricuspid valve in a human forces, or shear stresses, which 
heart. Previous attempts at tri­can damage red blood cHlls,leaflet valves have failed, ac­leading to anemia. cording to Lloyd. He feels, Second, they produce, what however, that the Notre Dame Lloyd termed, flow separate
version could eliminate problems regions which are prime areas for with earlier valves and be a thrombus build-up. The build-uptremendous improvement over can prevent a proper seal and 
disc and ball types of valves em­eventually may result in a heart 
ployed today. attack or stroke if separated from Assisting Lloyd are Dr. Thomas the valve. 
J. Mueller, professor of aerospace Third, the flow patterns of oc­and mechanical engineering, and cluder valves produce a largeDr. Eldred J. MacDonnell, South pressure drop across the v.alve
Bend physician. The Indiana which tends to pull the valve away Heart Association and the National from its original emplacement. 
Science Foundation are funding The Notre Dame valve, Lloydthe tio's research with grants believes, should eliminate thesewhich call for extensive evaluation three problems. Composed! ofof presently used valves and three equal sized, silicone rubberdevelopment and evaluation of leaflets in a ring, which is sewnnew valves. 
into the heart, the valve opensLloyd and Mueller, experts on outward toward the artery wallsfluid mechanics and heat and mass like a natural heart valve.

transfer, are working basically on The resulting unimpeded :flowdesign and construction of new should prevent red blood cellvalves and on evaluation of "old" destruction from high shearvalves. MacDonnel, a specialist in stresses.
internal medicine and cardiac 
problems, is assisting with per­Throm bus build-up should be 
tinent medical information and eliminated because the backward 
advice. flow of blood which closes the 
Mueller, however, is currently valve is directed "back and on leave of absence at the Von around" by the leaflet's curviture. Karmon Institute in Belgium. The pressure drop is prevented According to Lloyd, he is doing because there is no occluder ball or research there and visiting disc offsetting a steady flow and its laboratories throughout Europe to accompanying pressure. obtain other ideas and opinions. The current research, according He communicates bi-weekly with to Lloyd, began as a joint ven:ture Lloyd and will rejoin the group in by Mueller and himself 2% yHars July. ago. Their goal, he said, is to 
Current designs for artificial develop evaluation techniques, 
Dr. Henry would like to increase vacatio~n 
(continued from page 1) regulations. 
ion't htink the student will like it Dr. Henry emphasized that the out its better than a conflict," he parents are "the first grop to be ;aid. convinced"to accept the new 
Dr. Henry hoped to lengthen the regulations. When that happens Christmas break to allow for a the Regents will deal with the month of independent study. regulations. 
The next problem discussed was Dr. Henry closed the discussion the question of male visitation by inviting the students to his: of­nthe halls. The studeents in at­fice anytime they have problems. .endance felt there should be in­"The doors are always open," he ·reased visitation. concluded. 
Dr. Henry explained that he has equipment, and an implantable heart valve. 
The university Industrial Research Program provided the two with a faculty research grant to get started. Since then, the Indiana Heart Association and the National Science Foundation has supported the research with grants of $11,317 and $43,800 respectively. The NSF's grant came only two months ago, but the IHA has provided assistance for about 1% years. 
Research up to this point, ac­cording to Lloyd, has been aimed at the development of tools. Most of the time has been spent on valve design, computer solutions, valve construction, development of a mock circulatory system, and evalutation of disc and ball oc­cluder valves. 
The mechicanical engineer said one of the major accomplishments so far is the group's ability to go from the drawing board to an actual valve for about $100. With the low cost, the researchers can now experiment with a varietyh of designs. 
Lloyd explained that leaflet valves in the past have had material problems. With the present structure developed here believed to be sound, the main problem is to find a material comparable in lasting strength and endurance to that of the self restoring leaflets in a human heart. valve. 
The valves developed at Notre Dmae have spherical leaflets made of a silicone rubber, which Lloyd thinks is the best material yet employed by his group. The Notre Dame researchers are now making modifications in the rubber to get the flexibility desired. Later the inexpensive spericalleaflets will be changed to a moree xpensive parabolic shape, which closer approximates the natural condition. 
Plans for the immediate future include continued evaluation of all types of valves. Three main phases are involved here. Com­puter programs are written to predict what blood flow should look like. The valves are then tested under stady flow and pulsating flow with equipment being specially designed for this pur­pose. Finally, the valves ar put into a mock circulatory system which simulates human conditions for am ore realisti.c study. 
The mock circulatory system is presently being modified for future work. An accelerated valve tester is also being developed. It will subject the valves to a fatigue test which compresses 10 years of blood flow into six months. 
Graduate students are con­ducting much of this research. by a Fully Open Disc-Type Frederick L. Galanga and Wayne Prosthetic Heart Valve" at the 
T. Struble are doing experimental 1973 Biomechanics Symposium at evaluation of disc and ball oc­Georgia Tech. cluder valves. Francis N. Un­Lloyd, Mueller, and 1973 derwood is doing computer work. engineering science graduate Gregory E. Chetta is assisting with Richard Waugh have also co­valve design and is doing authored two papers on research developmental work on the mock results. Lloyd delivered the first circulatory system. Undergrads one, "Morphological Changes in Richard S. Figliolia and Donald S. the Thermal Destruction of Kuehn are also assisting with Erythrocytes," at the 16th Annual evaluations. The researchers Conference on Engineering in expect evaluation results Medicine and Biology. He plans to sometime late spring. deliver "On In Vitro Thermal 
Lloyd and Mueller recently Damage to Ery'hrocytes," an presented a publication entitled extension of the first paper, later "On the Separated Flow Produced this week in Detroit. 
notre dame concerts -Student Union presents · 
David Crosby and Graham Nash Special Guest: Linda Ronstadt 

This Saturday 
8:00 


Tickets are $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 on sale now at Student 
Union Ticket Office and ACC Ticket Office. 
GOOD SEATS ARE STILL AVAILABLE 
live music 

Pre-Victory over PITT 
TONIGHT 
SPECIAL: All ND-SMC Seniors presenting ID will receive either FREE BEER or shot of SCHNAPPS! 
,. 
I 


o please several consituencies and 1e realized the students wouldn't ike the decisions limiting visitation. 
"Parents want, more or less, a ;anitary environment," Dr. Henry ;aid. If it wasn't for the flood of 
elegrams and letters against ;isitation last spring the Regents might have passes new regulations. The regents were reluctant to deal with the problem because of the barrage of op­oosition and tabled the new , 
RESEARCH 
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days). 

RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BlVD., SUITE #2 lOS ANGElES, CAliF. 90025. (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 Our research material Is sold for research assistance only. 
LEARN TO JUMP 

MCPC Inc. Slkydiving center 

----------------------------------------~--~·-----·-~ 
, 
... '-, 

Second lecture this Thursday 
Dixon lectures on meditation 
by Mary Kay Baron Staff Reporter 

When someone mentions tran­scendental meditation to people who don'f know about meditation, "their eyebrows go up, and they wonder if it's a kooky sort of thing to do," states Harold Plotkin, vice-president of Sweetheart Plastics, in a recent New York Times article. 
A former interest of the Beatles and the flower children, Tran­scendental Meditation (TM) is growing and becoming widely accepted. Indicative of this growing interest was the response to last night's introductory lecture on TM, which was presented by a local TM teacher, Carol Dixon, at 7:30p.m. in O'Shaughnessy, Room 118. 
Describing TM as "a simple, natural technique for the ex­pansion of the sonscious thinking capacity of the mind, whereby the mind experiences finer levels of the thinking process, reaching its full expansion in a state of pure consciousness, a state of deep inner silence and restfulness." This expansion of consciousness is a completely natural spontaneous and effortless mental technique. 
According to the speaker, the basic prerequisite to the TM ex­perience is that "we must be in a state of pure consciousness, no other mental activity." In a state of pure consciousness, one's mind is most alert, lively, and ex­panded to its full potential awareness. 
"We are systematically reducing the activity of the mind," stated Carol. "This experience eliminates confusion. People gain a more positive sense of iden­tification. This state of pure consciousness, gives thought energy, intelligence, and crea ti vi ty." 
What are the bad effects of TM? Carol, grinning, replied: "TM is bad for tension and stress because TM gets rid of it." 
Scientific research on the effects of Transcendental Meditation, as taught by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, has greatly increased in the last two years. Significatn findings have been published in prominent medical and scientific journals. 
Even in The University of Maryland Law Forum an artical about TM as applied to Criminal Justice Reform, . Drug Rehabilitation and Scoeity in Gnereal, appears. 
The results of these studies in­dicate that during the preactice of TM the practitioner naturally and spontaneously achieves a physical state of deep rest and relaxation while mentally he remains in­wardly awake and alert. 
To present a more detailed 
Robert Kennedy Lecture Series 
(continued from page 1) Brademas and Senator Vance Hartke, then both facing reelec­tion. In a speech at O'Laughlin Auditorium, McGovern called for a "second American revolution." This revolution, McGovern said, was not to be of a violent nature but a peaceful reaffirmation of the principles that our government was founded upon. At that time, McGovern also suggested that he was "seriously thinking about running for the presidency in 1972." The rest of McGovern's weekend at Notre Dame included reading with Senator Hartke at the 1970 Shakespeare Marathon, talking 
interns  to  work  on  the  1970  
McGovern  Commis sion  of  Party  
Reform.  

interest  and  involvement  in  
politics.  The  first  year  of  the  
Kennedy  series  brought  Frank  

HPC meeting 
1continued from page I) 
Geisinger explained that although the primary purpose of the service is to aid off-<:ampus students in 
traveling to and from the university, it is also designed to be us use to on-<:ampus students wishing to go into South Bend. 
"We desperately need ridership on this bus," said Geisinger, "because Student Government cannot afford to subsidize the service. It must pay for itself." 
Director of the Ombudsman Service Bill McLean also spoke to the HPC. He assured the presidents that he has people looking into the matter of room­and-board refunds for those students voluntarily living in over­crowded rooms to avoid forcing people off campus. 
The HPC clarified an an­nouncement published in last Wednesday's Observer about Mardi Gras ticket sale prizes. A $500 prize will be awarded to the top salesman and a $250 prize will go to the second-place finisher. It was previously stated that the prizes were to be $300 and $200 respectively. 
COLUMBIA 

UNIVERSITY Press)
Graduate School of Business 
Prof. Kathryn Villani will be on campus Nov. 8 to speak with students from all disciplines who are interested in a graduate management education. Nine possible concentrations are offered, plus a variety of joint degree programs in conjunction with other graduate divisions of 
Columbia  University.  For  
further  details,  contact  the  
Placement Bureau.  

. with the faculty at the University Club in an "Evening with George 
-McGovern," and joining Fr. Hesburgh as his personal guest at the Notre Dame vs. Army football game. 
McGovern will be appearing Sunday in a revival of the Robert 
F. Kennedy lecture series. The series began one year after the assassination of Senator Kennedy, as a means of insuring student 
Mankiewicz, Adam Walinsky, Charles Evers, and David Halberstam to Notre Dame for a seminar to discusss the Kennedy campaign and the notion of politics as an institution of political reform. 
McGovern was persuaded to make this unusual out-of-state appearance appearance because of the personal efforts of Chuck Nau, lecture chairman for the Notre Dame Law Center's Student Bar Association. Nau was the only Notre Dame student hired out of 18 
The Student Bar Association sought out co-sponsorship of the McGovern appearance with the Student Union Academic Com­mission, in Nau's words, "to at­tempt to repair some of the splits between the law school and other parts of the university." 
McGovern's speech at Stepan Center is open to the public. Ad­mission is free. 
BABSON COLLEGE 
Wellesley, Massachusetts 
Program for Master's Degree in Business Administration For Business and Non-Business Majors 
On-campu~ interviews Friday, November 16,1973, 9-11 A.M. by Mr. Jay Allschwang 
Sign-up: Placement Bureau 

TM work and a brief review of this first session, TM teacher, Carol Dixon, will return to speak at 7:30 Thursday night in O'Shaughnessy, lecture of how the mechanics of Room 118. At that time, ap­pointments for the program and other arrangements can be made. 
Three requirements essential to participation in the program are: 
1) Time: the participant for 
complete rest(dts must attend all four sessions in their proper time sequence, 2) Financial: to help support the World Plan Centers a fee of $45 is charged to students, and 3) A pure physiological requisite: potential participants must refrain from the uses of any non-prescribed drugs for at least 15 days prior to the first person in­
, struction. 

., 

-
Wednesday, November 7, 1973

the observer
8 

ND·s Al Hunter-­
Ara's not kidding 
about this man 
"When practice first began they by Tom Kruczek had us hitting with the second team 
defense. Then when the scrim­

One year ago AI Hunter was magingbegan, we went against theplaying offensive and defens~ve prep teams, then later we wentbackfield for J. H. Ros~ high against the second team defenseSchool in Greenville, North again. Finally we were to goCarolina. 
against the first team defense, and This year Hunter is seeing plenty that's when I got nervous because of playing time and has scored the first team defense is one of the 

three touchdowns for Notre Dame best in the country. But then I as only a freshman. A freshman? figured that if I could walk away
At Notre Dame? The University from a scrimmage with our that entertained in its backfield the defense, then I could play with likes of George Gipp, Bill anyone because not many teams Shakespeare, Emil Sitko, Johnny are able to hit harder than our 
Lattner, Paul Horning and Nick defense." Eddy has allowed a freshman to play varsity football? You've got ·As for the teams that Notre to be kidding. Dame has played so far this 
season, Southern California looked Not only is Irish head coach Ara the biggest to Hunter. "Against

Parseghian not kidding with Southern Cal, I didn't feel that Hunter, but he has eight other much pressure because the more I freshmen on the active roster as played in other games before thenwell. Hunter himself admits that the more confidence I got. So wh(mwhen he came to Notre Dame, his I got into the Southern Cal game,. Ifirst goal was not to be playing was pretty relaxed and I wasn't all 
hard to get up for this game." As
regularly for varsity--but
the that nervous." John Fineran==============================~=~=~=~=:=:=:=:===========================~:.·::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:;
for the student body, Hunter
merely to make the travelling 
commented, "they help the team
squad. The Northwestern game was a 
morale because it is really
little different for the six-foot 190

"I really wasn't thinking about something to play before the home 
pound running back. "I was

playing freshman football, but I' crowd." 
Blarney Stone(d)
worrying about knowing my playswas hoping to be able to make the in the first game because offense in

traveling team," said Hunter. As At 190 pounds, Hunter admits
colllege is a lot more complicated

to how does it feel to be playing that he isn't tremendously huge for 
than that in high school. Three

varsity football, Hunter added, "It a back, but his speed makes up for ===============~~========================================~===~=~===~=~=~=~=~===~=:=~=~=:===~=~===~=~=~=~=~=~=======~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=;Thin ice
weeks isn't that much time to learn 

what he may lack in size. In the 100
feels great to be part of a great If last weekend's successful visit to Michigan Tech is any indication of
a new offense. I didn't think that. I

to yard dash he's been clocked at 9.3
team that's going be national things to come in 1973-74, the Notre Dame hockey team should enjoy a
knew the offense that well, and I

champions." and in the 40, Hunter snaps the banner year. And if last season's final playoff series with Wisconsin is was worried that I wouldn't know 
tape in 4.5 seconds. 
any indication of attendance, it could be a disappointing one, at leastBut Notre Dame is a long way what to do. Plus all of those people from this writer's point of view.
from North Carolina. "One at the game just add to the Looking back on high school Hockey is a young sport here at duLac, six years young this season. But
problem in coming to college is pressure." football, Hunter said that the big this is probably the only area of inexperience in the Notre Dame hockey getting adjusted to the harder Going back to the Southern thing in North Carolina is college program. Certainly, coach Lefty Smith and his able assistants, Timhitting. The big people here are a California game, Hunter went into basketball. But football is im­McNeill and Kevin Hoene, have put together a squad which is capable oflot quicker. In high school, you how you go about preparing to play portant there also. While in high playing with any and all comers on this season's schedule. 
may have had two or so people on a game the magnitutude of USC. school, his choices of colleges were each team that may have been "Preparing for S.C. was the same Duke, Michigan State and North Notre Dame students come from every geographical section of the able to hit hard, but here everyone as for any other game--except that Carolina State . nation. In two of these areas, the South and Far West, hockey is a hits. you knew it was S.C. It wasn't relatively new sport, especially on the pro-level. 
So what is the man from North 
Last season, in that last series, probably the most exciting one in the
Carolina doing in the gold and blue 
sport's short history in Indiana, fans were treated to 120 minutes of the
Polls uphold status quo 
of Notre Dame? 
way the game should be played. Many of those fans, perhaps at least one­Point production on Saturday ' they received in last week's "I really don't know what it was half of them, travelled down the interstate highway system fromafternoon upheld the status quo on balloting. 
Wisconsin. It left some of the most loyal Irish fans, this writer included, a
and I still don't know why I came
Monday night for seven of the top 10, little, excuse the pun, "red-faced."
Ohio State, a 30-o winner over here, but I sure am glad I did. Theteams in the last week's college
-
Illinois, was ranked first in both major difference between high
football rankings. Granted no Notre Dame student could be faulted for not showing up,
surveys, while Alabama (35-0 school football and college, is that especially the way the season ended up. Notre Dame could have finished Only Arizona State, last week's against Mississippi State) was in high school you went home after second or fifth depending on the outcome of the last regular-season game. 
eighth-ranked club, was felled last second and Oklahoma (34-17 over practice and here there are other Mid-semester vacation was scheduled rather unappropriately the same
weekend, and the Sun Devils' loss, Iowa State) third. things you still have to do after the time as the Badger series. Many students had already made plans for
a 36-31 setback by Utah, dropped hitting stops. There's meetings
Michigan's Wolverines were going home or to wherever students of this university go on vacations.
them to 14th in the Associated and films after dinner, and then I
ranked fourth in each poll after

Press poll and 15th in the UPI have to study," Hunter added. Still all of the students of this great institution, wherever they come
their 49-13 thumping of Indiana,

survey. from, ~hould recognize there are more than two sports on this campus at
and Notre Dame, a 44-7 victory What a difference a year makes. 
But that was Saturday's only the varsity level. There are nine others of varsity status and countless 
over Navy, was still fifth.

mrprise, and the top seven teams Last year high school-this year others on the club level, hockey being one of the former. 
n each poll held onto the positions Penn State (42-22 over Notre Dame. For a guy like AI 
Maryland) and (54-14 Hunter, you might say things have Many students recognize this factor about the ice sport. Hockey season 
LSU over 

changed. ticket sales among students already have increased four times what they AP Ratings Mississippi) trailed the Irish, but were last season and with the support the sport has in the South Bendafter the sixth and seventh teams
i-0-0 1.146
I Oluo State (35) area there will be at least 3,000 persons at Notre Dame's Athletic and 
2 Alabama (14) 8-0-0 1.096 things began to change. 
3. Oklahoma (i) 6-0.1 910 ND-Wisconsin Con~ocation Center next weekend when the Irish open their home season. 
4 ~llchigan (I) 8-0-0 888 Southern Cal, winner over Two problems arise, however. The ACC can seat 4,493 persons at a
;. 1\otre Dame (I l . i-0-0 i46 California in a 50-14 cakewalk, is 6 Penn State (4) 8-0.0 iH ranked eighth in AP while UCLA hockey game. So this overabundance of empty seats presents the other 
tickets on sale
i LoUISiana Stale 8·0-0 580 
8 So Callforma 6·1·1 450 (62-13 over Washington) is ninth, problem, a very serious one. i-1-0 431
9 t'CLA and that duet is reversed in the Notre Dame's opponent next weekend will be that playoff nemesis, the
10 Mossuun i-1·0 352 
II \ebroska 6-1-1 310 UPI survey. But the number ten today at ACC defending national champions, Wisconsin. T~e Big _Red Badg~rs are 12 Texas Tech i-1-0 133 team, Missouri (a 31-7 victor OVE!r noted for their great hockey team, and also their unbelievably vociferous 13 Texas 5-2·0 8-0.0 129 126 Kansas State) is the same in both. Tickets went on sale this fans. In fact, Sports Illustrated covered this phenomena. of student
mor­
14 Anzuna Slat<' 

15 Houston i-1-0 112 Tulane dropped out of the un­ning for Notre Dame's opening loyalty twice last season. Wisconsin fans can be summed up m one word, 16 Tennessee i· 1-0 80 beaten ranks last weekend after hockey series against the defen­and unfortunately, that word can not be printed here. 
li M1am1. Ohw 8-0.0 i!i 
losing to Kentucky, 34-7, and the ding national champion Wisconsin
18. 
Kansas .. a-2·1 15 You can bet your last two dollars, if you want, ~at those fans from 

19. 
Ken! State i-1·0 14 Green Wave also dropped com­Badgers. The series is scheduled 


Wisconsin would love to truck down here for the senes on November 1620. Pitt 5·2·1 l:l pletely out of the AP's Top Twenty. for the A.C.C. on November 16 and and 17, especially if word gets out that those remaining seats are sellingBut the Wave, now 7-1, were 17 and there are still plenty of seats
UPI Ratings at apathetic levels. But maybe you'd better not bet.
ranked 17th in the UPI voting. available for both nights.
Points 
The only other eye--Qpener in this Rather, this writer believes you should invest those dollars and borrow
1 Oluo Stale i-0 (H) 336 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
-2 Alabama H-0 (H) 305 week's balloting occured in the another one from Mom and Dad in order to see the fastest sport at its 
3 Oklahoma 6-0-I (2) . . 29i students who have not bought
Second Ten of the Associated Press finest. After all, football has an off-week next weekend, and basketball
4. ~hchigan H·O 24i season tickets can present their ID 
5 Satre Dame i-0 (I) :208 poll, where Pittsburgh's Panthers doesn't start for another two. Hockey will be the only sport in action
cards at the Gate 10 ticket window 
fi Pt•nn Stale 8·0 . .205 continued their recovery from November 16 and 17 at Notre Dame, so go out and buy those tickets. 
I:H and for
i LSC H·O gridiron obscurity by climbing into receive a ticket either Sales began this morning for the series, and it wouldn't be surprising to 
. R. CCU i-1 i8 
contest at $1.50. A maximum of
9 SouthcrnCal6-l·l 67 20th place on the ratings ladder. me if there are Badger fans here to buy tickets. You can't beat the price, 
10 Missoun i·l 42 four adjacent tickets can be
The Panthers, now 5-2-1, and the $1.50 for one game and a bargain price of $3.00 for the weekend packaged­
11 Sebrask" 6·1·1 14 bought, each at the same price,
12 Texas 5·2 8 Irish, now 7-0, will collide this pair.
student presenting four
13 Houston i-1 Saturday in Pittsburgh. The game one It will be an exciting series between the currently 
fi with top two nationally­
14 Texas Te<oh i-1 3 ID's. For all others wishing to see
mark second this ranked squads. And number--Qne should not
15 (Tie) M1ami. 0 8-0 . .2 will the time the series, the tickets are priced at the Badgers' ranking as 
15. (Ttr) Anwna St i-1 ..2 season the Fighting Irish have met deter anyone from seeing the games.
$3.00 each night.
li. Tulane i·l . I a nationally-ranked club. We all know who the real number--Qne team is, right? 









