--~ ------~-----------------------------, 
On The Inside 
Letters to a Lonely God ... page 7 Henry and Equal Rights ...page 9 
Vol. Viii, No, !!! 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, September 28, 1973 
Off-campus students can apply for aid 

by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame students living off-campus may be eligible for food stamps provided they meet normal federal requirements. 
Arthur Kopec, director of the food stamp program for St. Joseph County, pointed out that students of limited means and income can apply to the food stamp division in South Bend for financial help to pay for food. 
"We treat the student no differently from anybody else, " Kopec said. "They meet the same criteria as anyone else." 
To qualify for the program a household of students must possess assets not ex­ceeding $1500. The income of the household must not exceed the monthly limit set by the federal government for a given number of individuals in the household. For example, the maximum monthly income for a household of two is $240. The limit for a household of four is $387. 
Kopec warned that students must be able to verify their ned for the funds. Once the students have certified their financial need with one of Kopec's eight case workers, the food stamp agency contacts the parents of the students. The parents are asked about their contriubtion to the tuition and living expenses of the student. If this notarized parental statement verifies the need of the student, the household is eligible for food stamps. 
Kopec , a 1957 Notre Dame graduate, noted that already this year seven or eight students have .been denied food stamps because parents have either failed to verify the studetns' assets or agreed to supplement their income. He warned that applicants face prosecution if they falsely report their funds. 
"We would like the students to be honest," said Kopec. " This is a federal program. If they don't give us correct information, they can be prosecuted for fraud by the local prosecutor." 
Kopec emphasized that only off-campus students could be eligible for food stamps. Individuals residing in dormitories, boarding -houses, or hotels do not qualify. 
Last year Kopec estimates that about 125 Notre Dame students were certified to receive food stamps. Figures for this year wtre not available. 
When asked if he thought students should be prohibited from receiving food stamps, Kopec declined to comment. He did wish to see the program limited to married students only. 
Fr. James Shilts, director of off-campus residence, expresses similar sentiments. However, he believes that if the student truly needs food stamps, he should have them. 
"Married students are frequently in need of food stamp support and there may be some unmarried students, I don't know," said Shilts. "If there are some unmarried students, they must truly qualify as indigent to qualify for the program." 


Whereabouts of Barnard still unknown 
by Zenon Bidzinski Staff Reporter 
FBI officials and Mishawaka Police have been unable, as of last night, to discover any new leads concerning the whereabouts of Thomas J. Barnard, the supposedly abducted Notre Dame graduate student. According to Mishawaka Police, FBI officials have taken over the case, but they are being aided by the Mishawaka force in this area. 
Barnard, 23, of 536'-h W. Mishawaka Ave., disap­peared Tuesday morning after an apparent burglary of his home. His wife, Nancy, reported the burglary at 
2:40p.m., claiming that three pieces of jewelry were taken. A note apparently from Barnard was found at O'Hare Airport later that night. 
Signed in Barnard's name, the note read: "I was taken from my apartment this morning and forced to rent a car to O'Hare. He is six feet, dark, slender, short dark hair. He has escaped from somewhere. He is making me charge two tickets. I don't know where yet." 
The ND brand of 
security: what's 
Chicago Police said Barnard purchased two tickets to Colorado Springs on Continental flight No. 39. Barnard, however, may have never gone to Colorado Springs. An FBI official in Denver told the Observer that, contrary to earlier reports, there has been no indication yet that Barnard landed at Peterson Field in Colorado Springs or that he even flew through the state. 
An FBI spokesman in Indianapolis stated ~·we don't know where he's at yet. There were two plane tickets purchased, but we don't know if Barnard was on the plane. That's what we're in the process of in­vestigating right now." 
The Indianapolis branch of the FBI, according to the spokesman, is the controlling office in this in­vestigation. The offices in South Bend, Chicago, Denver, Colorado Springs, and Los Angeles are also carrying out investigations, another FBI source said. 
None of these offices, however, would reveal any 
detail information. FBI policy forbids the release of 
information concerning an investigation while the 
investigation is still pending. 
According to a UPI release, officials indicated that 
there was some chance the kidnapping wa a hoax, but 
they were proceeding on the assumption that it was 
real. It also stated that Barnard apparently had no 
personal or school problems and that officials are 
wondering how he found time to write the note. 
FBI officials said they have not received any com­
munication from or about Barnard but refused to 
comment on whether his wife or family had been 
notified. 
Barnard's wife, Nancy, 23, refused to comment on 
her husband's apparent abduction. She is residing at 

Barnard 

as a graduate in the MBA program. For the last month he has been assisting Professor John Beverly and Professor Yeandel with their computerwork. 
Both professors have a high opinion of him. Beverly stated, "Tom is a very bright, friendly, outgoing youngster. He is energetic and extremely capable. He is also quite well adjusted and always seemed happy," he added. "I like him very much and all those who know him like him." 
Yeandel described Tom as an extremely competent student with a "very good head and a keen, sharp 
home with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Payant, who mind." Concerning his personality Yeangel said, arrived from Green Bay, Wisconsin, early Wednesday "Tom is completely open, very friendly, and very morning and with Mr. and Mrs. Barnard, also from personable."

it all about? 
Green Bay, who arrived yesterday afternoon. Mrs. Both professors said they already miss Tom. 
Payant says her daughter is calm and collected but does Beverly summed up the situation well: "This is one of not wish to issue any statements. those things where you just sit on the edge of your chair ... see page 3 Barnard, a native of Green Bay and a graduate of the and hope for the best. We all hope everything works 
University of Wisconsin. entered Notre Dame this fall out all right." 

~-----­

---------------~---~­
the observer'. Friday, September 21, 1973
l 
warld briefs 
New Orleans-District Attorney Jim Garrison and two amusement company executives were found innocent Thursday of taking bribes to protect the city's pinball industry. Garrison said later the trial was only the beginning of Justice Department harrassment against him due to his criticism of the federal government and contention that former President John F. Kennedy was killed as a result of a conspiracy. 
Washington-The House Ways and Means Committee approved legislation Thursday granting President Nixon broad powers to negotiate new trade agreements, but tying his hands in dealing with Communist countries until they liberalize their emigration policies. 
Washington-The administration's military program had its second close call in as many days Thursday as the Senate defeated an effort to slow down the Trident submarine project by a mere two votes. Still another test was on tap--a new effort to reduce U.S. troop strength overseas. 
Chicago--Teacher arrests in Highland, Ind., and defiance of a court order in Detroit Thursday marked continued wrangling over contracts between teachers and schools that kept about 350,000 children out of school across the nation. 
Agnew sets plans of 'no resignation' 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Vice jury, but to fight for exonera­President Spiro T. Agnew has tion through the courts and 
told friends any hope he may keep appealing to the House of have had for the presidency in Representatives for a full and. 1976 "is over now" but that he open hearing, no matter how 
will not resign his office even if long it takes." indicted in Maryland, The New "He concedes," the Times York Times reported today. said, "that it was common 
"He has been destroyed practice in Maryland and politically and knows it," Times elsewhere to solicit campaign writer James Reston reported, funds from contractors and "but he will not go quietly, for give government contracts to that would look like a confes­people who contributed to the 
sion of guilt, and that, he party in power, if they had 
insists, is a confession he will ability to do the job. He feels 
never make." this was standard practice with 
Reston said Agnew does not his predecessors in Maryland intend to resign the vice and his successors but it was presidency "even if he is not evidence of corruption." 
indicted by the Baltimore grand It said Agnew does not know the nature of the evidence against him in Maryland. The Times said Agnew
Frisbee Fly-In 
"insists" that it was the Justice Department-not him-that ini­contest to be tiated "plea bargaining" in the case. He was invited to pleadsponsored guilty to some charges but felt there could be "no com­
by Kit Baron promise," The Times said. 
Staff Rporter 
The newspaper said he "is obviously angry" at HenryWRBR's first Great Frisbee Fly­Peterson, assistant attorneyIn Contest will begin at 2 pm, general in charge of the JusticeSunday, September 30, at the Town Department's Criminal Divi­& Country Ayr-Way's parking lot. 
sion. He feels that the JusticeAnticipating a large crowd from Department is on the defensivethe Michiana area, WRBR ap­because it failed to findproximates the contest to last evidence in the Watergate case
three hours. Frisbee, trophies, and record that the Senate Watergate albums are among the prizes to be 
(continued on page 8)
awarded to the winners of the various frisbee events. Events include: 'Guts Frisbee, Ultimate 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester-~xcep1 vacations by the stuaents of the
Frisbee, and the Individual 
Competition Category which 
University of Notre Dame and St.
consists of Accuracy, Distance and 
Mary's College. Subscriptions
LTA (Longest Time Aloft) throws. 
may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The
"If Sunday turns 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame,
out to be the success we epxect it 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
to be," stated one WRBR 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556.
representative, "we will make the 
frisbee contest an annual event." 


an campu• taday 
fri 

3: 15 pm lecture, "mechanisms of deformation in the hot wor~!ng cf meta!s", dr. h. !· mcqueen, rm 5 engineering bldg. 
4:30 pm--colloquium, number theory, george cooke, room 226math bldg. 
5:00 p.m.--mass and dinner, bulla shed 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club, regatta preparation, engineering aud. 
7:30 and 10 pm--film, the love Machine , aud­engineering B pm--square dance, zahm & farley and the colorado club, old fieldhouse 
9:30 pm--coffeehouse, smc coffeehouse, lower level cafeteria 
sat. 
10:00 a.m.--lecture, non-authoritarian approaches to 
discipline, carroll hall, smc 12--rugby, nd vs. iowa state, stepan fields 7 and 9 pm--film, me natalie, smc little theatre B & 10 pm--film, red desert, engineering aud. 
sun. 2 -4:00 p.m.--seminar, older adults series, cce 
6:00 p.m.--mass, sponsored by frech club, regina hall chapel 
6:30 pm --meeting, cila, followed by wine and cheese, grace hall chapel B & 10 pm--film, red desert, engineering aud. 
The time is NOW! 
There is no standing in line! 
There is no extra charge! 
With a Student Billing Card, residence hall people may make long distance telephone calls with the pri­vacy of their own room phones and get an individual bill once a month. 
And you can take advantage of Direct Distance Dialing ... the mod­ern way to call long distance, within Indiana or out of state. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call 234-5088. Or you can drop in at our Business Office at 225 S. Main Street. Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

@Indiana Bell 
.·•·'-~ 

. : 
, .; ; .; ..... ' . 
:. ... . ~ . ,• ' . ,., 


--------------------------------------------------------------, 
•

Security •• comparable to SIZe 
by Gary Allietta Staff Reporter 
Third of three parts 
How does Notre Dame security stack up against that of other schools? 
Compared with the other colleges surveyed, ND ranks as a small school, but is staffed and equipped comparably to schools twice our size. 
For instance, Ball State, with a total enrollment of 18,000, has a force of 34 people including radio dispatchers. Notre Dame has about 8500 students and a security department of 32, including dispatchers and gate guards. 
Western Michigan has a seven vehicle motor squad to patrol their 20,000 student campus. This ratio is comparable to our three car unit, 8500 student campus. However, Western's campus is open and in the heart of Kalamazoo while Notre Dame has a closed, out-of-town campus. 
There are differences, however, 
which highlight the fact that ND is two viewpoints: restriction from the a private school. Arthur Pears, student point of view and security from the security director, has followed the 
campus guard force point of view. 
lead of many other colleges in having his patrolmen sworn in as deputies of the county. Yet one of There are several students the students, we wouldnt' be here." doesn't feel right to say "I'll meet 
ted; the protection of student andthe men on each shift, the employed by the security depart­Prevention is the key to the you in the library." 
campus property should be thesergeant, carries a firearm while ment. One law student acts as a security method of protection. Mike Kemp, a senior from main goal. The student added,at other schools, all officers carry plainclothes investigator, and Among department suggestions Dillon, also feels that access to however, that the things that show guns. Yearly, our security 
graduate students occupy most of for a safer campus were cardex campus should be easier. His main up are the things the police fail on.receives about $325,000. Ohio the remaining patrol and desk locks on certain halls, better complaint, though, was that Crimes that did not happen never
State, a school over five times as positions. However, a group of lighting certain areas, and f large as ours, receives $1 million, undergraduates form a lot patrol student cooperation. Students can , only three times as much. to guard the parking lots on help by locking doors and recor­
1 
Pears, at 58, carries a record weekends. ding serial numbers of valuable Student: 'I'm treated similar to most other campus In addition to the regular per­articles, Pears added. police chiefs. He spent 30 years on sonnel, a South Bend policeman In dealing with young people, the the Niles police force, 15 as chief. helps out on busy nights. A con­overall problems are the same, 
as an/undesirable'
He is a graduate of the FBI tingent of South Bend officers work Pears noted. Use of alcohol is no National Academy and is a past special events such as concerts or worse here than in other schools,president of the International hockey games. and most other offenses are the campus police are too restrictive. make the headlines. He also Association of Chiefs of Police. Bikes are a significant problem same. If anything, Notre Dame "The emphasis should be on remembers meeting one friendly 
has a closer campus community protecting the student and not cop. than a lot of other universities, he restricting him," he said. Most students will agree that said. Kemp added that the controls campus lighting is poor. The lawPears: 'all is for A college police department's should be on vandalism and student reported that she had biggest problem is the image it has campus walk-on, instead. special routes to take late at night in the student's eyes. Pears knows Lack of regard for student to avoid poorly lighted areas. She 
that the average student does not .dignity is a problem, noted a senior added that she would feel betterthe students' benefit' think well of the force. "You can't government major. He cited in­ifmore guards, even unarmed, give a student a citation and expect stances at the gate and a security would patrol at night. to be called nice guys," he said. phone call in which the officers Students also feel that the He feels that by using more treated him "not as a student but security officers are too old. One
How does campus security for the police. Pears noted that students on the force, more people as an undesirable." He does not student called them a bunch of oldwork? bike thefts were the most think the department is very ef­men who don't want to be
will learn what the other side of the

The campus is divided into two prevalent crimes on campus. He ficient. Priorities are misdirec­
story is. However, because of the bothered.
regions, the inner perimeter and added that as of Monday, only 365 
positions needed to be filled and

the outer perimeter. During each had been registered. Money shift, the perimeters are patrolled collected at the registration goes to the student absence rate during (THE OBSERVER)
vacationing, student employement 

separately by units assigned an agency which enters the bike 
is not presently feasible. Pears

specifically to the area. One car number in a national computer 
hopes to use a greater number of

and several foot patrolmen watch system. All bikes recovered ar ( On Campus
students in the future, though. 

J
the inner perimeter and are checked through the computer to 
responsible for locking certain see if they are registered and then Opinions 
buildings, depending 011 the shift. returned to the owner if they are. How do students feel about campus Each area is to be checked a Pears felt that drug abuse on security? specified number of times each campus was minimal. What few Generally, the attitude is not one hour. Another vehicle and oc­cases the department handles are of esteem. Traffic seems to be the 
Friday, September 28, 1973 Page 3
casional pedestrian unit cover the sent to the dean of students. Non­largest area of disfavor and the outer perimeter with similar student drug violators are handed gates are the biggest problem. responsibilities. The third vehicle, over to the city prosecutor. One female law student felt that an ambulette, is used for guard Pears' philosophy about his job off-campus guys should be allowed 




In the shadows
duty when necessary, but usually is that "all we do is for the on campus to pick up their dates in stays in for emergency use. students' benefit. If it were not for the evening. She said it just 

exists sailing 
by Bruce Marek the 71-72 season. According to last year's yearbook, this place is In the shadows of the Golden probably best known for harboring Dome practices one of the least our ducks. It is St. Joe Lake--an known teams at Notre Dame. The object for joggers to run around, a field of play isn't the famous place for lovers on a romantic football stadium that holds 60,000 moonlight walk. The Observer. in excited fans watching the Notre a picture story entitled "The Notre Dame football team and all of its Dame You Never Knew" showed tradition. It is also not the ACC its .historical landmark, the ~here the basketball team beat boathouse. The lake, the undefeated UCLA in 1971, or where boathouse, and the shadow of the coach Terry Mather's wrestl-ers Golden Dome hold in obscurity the 
I 
went undefeated at home during history of the Notre Dame Sailing Team--26 years of it. ,,., Twenty-six years--you would ~·-~<vw·· 
The forg~t~en sport under· thtt ;,;, 
think that in that amount of.time 

shadow of the Gold Dome: 
(continued on page 8)
sailing. 



the observer Friday, September 28, 1973 
Abortion: Topic of two-day conference 
by Claude Devaney Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Law Professor Charles Rice called abortion "killing for convenience." San Francisco Attorney Florync~ Kennedy said, "It was for a woman to decide if she wanted to have an ll bQrtion." 
These differing views came at a session of the two-day conference, "Government, the Family and Abortion" which is being held at the Center for Continuing Education, Wednesday and Thursday. The participants in Wednesday night's session at­torneys, were Charles Rice, professor at Notre Dame Law School, Florynce Kennedy, f>lack: feminist from San Francisco, and Roger Ducomb, ranking member of the Indiana HouseCommittee on Human Affairs. 
Opening his remarks, Rice said, "The life ofthechild is the highest interest that can be protected by the law." He stated that the right to life was extended to all human 
St. Louis inmates riot 
ST. LOUIS, Mo. (UPI) -guards hostage early today and Inmates at the St. Louis City demanded to see a newsman to Jail took between four and six air complaints against the 
Missouri penal system. Report­Suspect arrested er Jim White of Radio Station 
for burning of rock singer 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) Michael David Martin, 26, surrendered to police Thursday on charges connected with the theft and burning of the body of rock singer Gram Parsons. 
Parsons, 27, formerly of "The Byrds" and "Flying Burrito Brothers" rock groups, died last week, apparently of a heart attack. Two men driving a hearse tricked airline freight personnel into handing over the coffin containing his body. It was found aflame the next morning by campers at Joshua Tree National Monument in the desert. 
Police speculated that the unorthodox cremation was a funeral ritual or an attempt to destroy evidence. 
Martin and Parsons' road manager, Philip Kaufman, 38, who was arrested at his Van Nuys home Wednesday, were charged with grand theft. 
Start your v..eekend at ... 


Bulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper across lrom Grace T~wer) 
-···..: 
. 
.. 

MASS AND DINNER 
beings. The 14th amendment guarantees the right to life and to equal pl'otection of the law to all persons. Therefore·, he said, all human beings would be persons. 
But the Supreme Court changed this in their Jan. 22 ruling. The court did not give the benefit of the doubt to the child in the womb, according to Rice. The Court said, whether or not the fetus is a human being the fetus i~nota person. What the court did according to Rice, was to reintroduce the Dred Scott decision which said the descen­dents of slaves were not persons. 
Rice said, "What we are talking about is whether to legalize the killing ofinnocent human beings," If you don't believe they are human beings at least give them the benefit of the doubt." 
.Kennedy taiked about abortion in regard to women's rights. She said, "The name of the game is C.O.N., control of niggers." Nigger means anyone who can be controlled, whether they were blacks, women or anyone else. 
KMOX was allowed to enter the institution and meet with the dissidents. 
There were no reports of injuries, but authorities said the inmates had at least one gun. The inmates-officers did not know how many there were­took the guards hostage on the fifth floor of the institution, held them briefly there before moving to the fourth floor where women prisoners are held, police said. 
St. Louis Police immediately surrounded the jail in down­town St. Louis adjacent to the Municipal Court Building and City Hall and across the street from city owned Kiel Auditori­um. 
The city jail houses about 90 prisoners, mostly prisoners who are awaiting trial or those who have been convicted of felonies and who are awaiting transfer to the state penitenti­ary at Jefferson City, Mo. Prisoners awaiting transfer frequently wait as long as several weeks until a bus load is ready creating a problem of overcrowdedness. 
The jail's maximum capacity is 90, but most of the time that capacity is exceeded. 
"Control is what it's all about," Jm10cent people who were killed she said. There is a great deal of over there. determinaton to control women. A more appropriate name, ac­She said a women should be free to cording to Kennedy, would be choose whether she wants to have "Friends of the Fetus" since that an abortion. was all they were concerened 
about. 
Kennedy also said, "We don't "There isn't any real concern care about life in this country." If for the right to life except when it is Americans cared about life then a convenient aspect of the C.O.N. why weren't cars made safer, and game." why was there so much smoking. Indiana Ninth District Legislator 
She attacked the "Right to Life" Roger Ducomb spoke on the organization as being hypocritical. · abortion issue in relation to In­If the "Right to Life" wa~ a diana state law. realistic name, she asked, then 
In regard to where an abortion why didn't they care about the should be performed, the Supreme soldiers in Vietnam and all the Court said the state could not 
Applications are now being accepted for the position of Observer features editor. Please submit resume and 
applicable portfolios to Jerry Lutkus The Observer Box Q or come to the office by Friday afternoon. 
fH{ SIIK)H BllfWEJlY COMPANY OfTROH. MICHIGAN 48126 





Love tap. 
From one beer lover to another. 
interfere inthe first trimester, that it was up to the physician. Du­comb said Indiana requires that an abortion must be performed in a hospital during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy. 
A written consent must be signed by the mother 24 hours before the operation. If the mother is under 18 years old, it must be signed by a parent or guardian. 
A requirement of the husband's consent was defeated by the legislature. 
Ducomb also pointed out that effective.January 1, 1974, the state law will prohibit Medicare from paying for an abortion. 


: ·.· ·····.:.·· 
.. -.

,..,..~·Ai~~~~;;.i.:j.~·~~··· 


25' /pint of beer hourly mixed drink specials best looking bar help in town 
ad courtesy of Student gov't. 
Ii~r Cltnlnnial / Paurakr ~nu.ur 


"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
U.S. 31 ( Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 

CHEERLEADER PROMOTION NIGHT 
7-2 


SENIOR BAR 
by United Press International 
Hundreds of St. Louis service station operators closed up shop Thursday to protest the freeze on retail gasoline prices, triggering traffic jams at pumps still open. Other station owners across the country threatened similar mass shutdowns. 
About half of the more than 1,500 gas stations in St. Louis City and County stopped pumping gas at midnight Thursday and said the action would last six days. Extra police were called out to handle traffic tieups as motorists jammed open stations during the early hours of the shutdown. 
Service stations on the Illinois 
side of the Mississippi River were 
open and reported business was 
The Black Student Convention convened at 9:00a.m., September 15, in the LaFortune Student Center. Approximately 60 black students attended the ali-day convention. 
The design of the convention allowed for small group sessions, that were led by students who met and discussed each catalytic paper that was presented. The con­vention was a working convention that allowed recommendations and needs reflective of the com­munity to evolve out of the small group. Some of the recom­mendations were: more extra­curricular activities for minority students, a list of community resources to bedeveloped, black student directory, monthly activity calendar , greater com­munications, life planning workshops, and an evaluative 
system of courses by seniors. 
Perhaps one of the most salient 
issues to evolve out of the con­
vention was the concern over 
campus security. The question 
was raised "do any officers wear 
weapons?" If so, what action can 
be taken to have any officer 
disarmed on this campus. 
Some concerns centered around 
poor campus security-black 
student relationships. One 
recommendation was that all 
campus security be required to 
engage in some human relations 
training to learn how to better 
communicate with minority 
students and students in general. 
Hopefully, such training would 
increase the sensitivity of the 
campus security and improve 
campus security-black student 
relationships. The general mode of 
the group was that while the 
majority of the security guards do 
a good job, there is that minority 
that cause the community to 
generalize about the total security 
force. 
Some attention focused on 
brisk as Missourians drove over~ fill up their tanks. 
In other areas of the country, dealers threatened massive weekend shutdowns, or called for a wait-and-see showdown with the Cost of Living Council, which has promised to hike retail gasoline prices in line with rising wholesale costs. 
In Chicago, Robert Jacobs of the Illinois and Indiana Gasoline Dealers Associations forecast a nationwide shutdown of gas stations this weekend and a spreading "wildcat" shutdown in north en Indiana Thursday. 
"We're going out all over the country this weekend if the Cost of Living Council doesn't give us more than tokenism." 
Jacobs said dealers want the 
right to pass on all legitimate in­
creases to consumers plus a 
by Judy Peterson Staff Reporter 

Second semester applications for the Rome program are being accepted until October 15. Forms are available from Sister M Alma Peter, Coordinator of Off-Campus Programs in Room 115, LeMans Hall. 
There are 15 openings left for the second semester, with 10 places already filled. 
Tobe eligible students must have onesemesterofltalian in which they received a "B" grade or better and must have achieved sophomore status. 
The SMC sponsored program was initiated in September, 1970. Since then 220 students from the two campuses participating, Sister 
Alma regards the program as 
being "highly successful." 
Although it was primarily organized for students from the SMC-ND community, other schools including St. Peter's college in Jersey City, New Jersey and Spring Hill College in Mobile, Alabama have enrolled guest students in the program. 
SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 
PRESENTS 
ME, NATALIE 


FREE 

Saturday, Sept, 29, 7 & 9 p.m. little theater SMC 
rollback in profit margins to May 15 instead of the present rollback to Jan. 10. 
In western New York, as many as 500 stations have threatened to close this weekend. Greg Amato, director of the United Gas Dealers, said 500 of the area's operators had pledged to close down at noon Friday until Monday morning. 
On Long Island, however, Bill Griffin, head of the Long Island Gasoline Retailers, said Thursday he was urging the nation's retailers' associations not to begin protest closing until they see what the Cost of Living Council's action will be. 
"if the Council only oUers us a pittance, we'll shut down," fie said. 
We'll picket oil terminals and.__ everything else." Griffin said at least 600 of the Long Island dealers backed the action. 
Black student convention held 
the March 21, 1973 edition of the The convention was summed up 
Observer, "Security Stops in the words of a freshman par­Burglary." The black community ticipant, "The convention allowed was described just as concerned me to meet new people and no 
about crime and violence as any longer feel isolated and devel~p a group in the University society. great sense of intimacy." Such descriptive identification of The convention ended with a 
"blacks" some four times in the social hour from 9:00p.m. to 1:00 article will only serve to increase a.m. Approximately 200 Notre the stress and anxiety in the Dame and St. Mary's black community, the convention students were in at­
decided. 
tendance. 
Applications for Rome still being accepted 
Students travel extensively throughout the year. Wednesday's are set aside for school-sponsored trips with week-ends and vacation travel left open to the students' choosing. Leslie Cella, a junior at SMC , recommends the Rome program "as a chance to get out of the closed college cosmos--and into the world in­dependently." 
Student Union Presents 

73111 

BARN DANCE FRIDAY AFTER PEP RALLY 
9:00 pm -1:00 am Stepan Center $6.00 per couple 
CARPENTERS IN CONCERT SATURDAY NIGHT 
8:00pm $6.50 -5.50 -4.00 

SATURDAY AFTERNOON ND vs USC -$8.00 
Tickets go on sale MONDAY OCT. 1. DANCE AND FOOTBALL TIX WILL BE SOLD TOGETHER. ·Umit of two football tickets per student. Concert tickets will be sold separately at Student Union Ticket Office, 2nd floor LaFortune, 7:00pm -lO:OOpm RICH GUILTINAN 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus 

Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Dan Barrett Executive Editor 
Executive Editor 

NEWS: 283-1715 
Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos Advertising Manager
Business Manager BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Friday, September 28, 1973 

Fi II I er Up 
Gas stations across the country are Legitimate or not, however, their gripe is closing up their pumps in protest against -being reinforced with some p the freeze on retail gasoline prices and pretty strong action. The Senator who is 
Indiana has become part of the move. prevented from travelling because of a lack of fuel would seem to become much 
If you are going to Purdue this weeknd, more sympathetic to the cause of the station. be warned. Reports coming from West . operator. Lafayette indicate that stations there have 
already begun closing, and the strike And unfortunately, the Senators aren't should begin affecting a large number of the only Americans affected by the shut­area stations today. down. 
Gasoline station operators across the nation began a move towards shutting So if you're traveling this weekend, be down their pumps prior to the Labor Day sure your car is equipped for a round trip. weekend earlier this month. The threat The natives in West Lafayette could well was so serious that AAA issued official frown upon long-staying Irish who play warnings to all ijs members alerting _good football. them of the possible shut-down. 
· Jerry Lutkus 

This time the threat seems much more likely of becoming widespread reality. the observer One area service station operator estimated that 75 per cent of the area's 
Night Editor: Joe Abell
gasoline facilities could be shudown over 
Assistant Night Editor: AI Rutherfordthe coming weekend. Layout: Celeste Ponterl, Maria Gallagher & Tom ... Their gripe seems legitimate. Despite Day Editor: Terry Keeney the removal of price freezes on almost Copyreaders: Greg Ravinski & Patti 
Cooney

every other product on the American 
Pictue Screener: Jerome Phillips
market, petroleum dealers continue to be 
Typists: Connie Fourre, Tom Modglin,
restricted in their attempts to. meet rising Dianne Chermsode expenses. Copygraphic Operator: Bob Steinmetz Controller of the Night: rick smith 

Dpinian The Dangling Conversation 
richmarl:in 
While at a north quad party last weekend, I overheard the following conversation between, what seemed a typical male student and, what seemed a typical co-ed. Because the party also seemed typical, the thought occurred to me that I would be doing the freshmen and transfer students of our community a great service copying down what I overheard. What seemed even a better idea was to delete key names and phrases to allow students to add whatever would be ap­propriate to themselves. So, without further adieu, I present the following as a public service to the student body of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
Fill in the blanks with appropriate answer. 
GUY-Hi! How are you? CHIC-Pretty good. GUY-My name is (na~e). CHIC-Ohl My name is (name). GUY-What's your major? CHIC-(major). Guy-That's cool. I almost went into that. I'm in (major). 
SILENCE 

GUY-What hall are you in? CHIC-(name of hall). GUY-So you're from (ND or SMC). Do you know (name of chic)? CHIC-No. GUY-How about (name of another chic)? CHIC-No. GUY-Hmm. How about (name of another chic)? CHIC-Yeah l She lives down the hall from me. GUY-That's really cool. So (name of another chic, above) lives 
down the hall from you. CHIC-Yep. So, what year are you? GUY-(year at school). (If not older than chic, expect conversation 
to end quickly.) 
SILENCE 

GUY-Where are you from? CHIC-(name of state or large, major city). GUY-Hey! I know someone from (name of state or large, major 
city. See above.) Do you know (name)? CHIC-No. 
SILENCE 

GUY-Can I get you something to drink? CHIC-Do they have (name of soft drink, i.e. Coke)? GUY-I'll go check. (Later.) I got you a (name of beer, i.e. Bud) . 
They didn't have any (name of soft drink, i.e. Coke). CHIC-Thanks, but I don't drink beer. 
SILENCE 

GUY-I think I've seen you around campus before. What classes do 
you have? CHIC-Oist of classes). GUY-You're in my (class) lecture hall! I knew I'd seen you before. 
Did you do the assignment due after Thanksgiving, yet? CHIC-Yeah. I finished it last week. GUY-Ohl I haven't even started yet. 
SILENCE 

GUY-Did Y<•U go to the concert last weekend? CHIC-Yeah. GUY-What did you think of it? I heard they were pretty good. CHIC-They were all right. GUY-Who's your favorite group? CHIC-Chicago GUY-Really? I know one of the members of the group. CHIC-Far out! Who? GUY-The (one of the musicians, i.e. the drummer). CHIC-What's his name? GUY-1 can't remember. I met him a long time ago. CHIC-Ohl 
SILENCE 

CHIC-Do you play any sports? GUY-No. <Or "yes" if you count round-ball at Stepan a sport). CHIC-Well, it looks like my friends are leaving now, so I better get 
going. It.s been nice meeting you. GUY-Yeah. Say, maybe I'll give you a call this week, okay? CHIC-Well, I'm going to be at the library and my roommate goes to 
bed early, so you better not. I'll probably see you in class. GUY-Well, yeah. Take it easy. CHIC-Say, you wouldn't know where Morrissey is, would you? 
______________________th_e__o_b__se__
rv_e~r--~--~---_7-~ 

Let:t:ers Ta A Lanely Ciad 
the sacrament of being a child 
rever~md rabert t;~riffin 


Sunday morning at eleven o'clock is the hour when the urchins come to worship, and everywhere in the Keenan chapel, there are tiny tots confronting the ancient mysteries of an aging God with hymns they are invited to dance to. There is not an urchin in the crowd who knows there is an Incarnation to be dealt with, nor is there the slightest evidence of a moppet's concern over the Trinitarian dilemma of being One God in Three Divine Persons. Being un­touched in their tottiness by dogma, they will accept any creed you teach them; and if you tell them God is everywhere, they will shake their heads in agreement, as though they had just noticed Him playing tennis with Tinker Bell on their way to Mass. 
A church like ours is a regular old Jonah's whale of an institution, eager to swallow up the hearts and minds of children in the love feasts of belief; whereafter, amidst, the safety of sacraments, the tots can live in the security of faith, like minnows swimming around in that fish's tum. In reality, of course, children play the make-believes of faith; they are like the lunches poised on the monster's teeth, resisting by their in­nocence the crunch of jaws that would assimilate them into the faith of the com­munion of saints. 
Our faith is such a complexity of rituals and creeds ; of birth and re-birth; of the various kinds of sin: original, venial, and mortal; of redemption and atonement; and of graces, actual and sanctifying and prevenient. Our faith is such a bloody dogmatic mess, hovering between Pelagian optimism and Calvinistic gloom, that we adults know faith is not a child's game at all. 
We can make children say they believe in the faith that is received from apostles and taught by bishops. With great politeness, they will recite the catechism lessons, and assure us that they believe those lessons, and be sure themselves, in fact, that they really do. But in honesty, they can't believe whatthey don't understand; and in truth we shouldn't want them to. 
touching the heart of children 
Nevertheless, God does touch the heart of children, although the mystery to me is the depth at which He touches them. Among the urchins I have loved, I think of tiny Christina, aged four, weeping at the foot of the altar_ because the priest had not given her the Jesus-bread. I do not know the depth of Eucharistic insight that were revealed in that moppet's tears, and I don't think she herself could have told me the source of her longing to receive the bread of Christ. But her grief seemed too sharp, her need too real, to dismiss it as a tykish wish to imitate the ritual of grownups. 
I think of Frankie, at age six the demon of the neighborhood who could make strong policemen tremble, telling me why he liked to receive Holy Communion. "It's like when you're hungry," he said, "and you go to communion; and afterwards, you're just not hungry any more." I could disbelieve this child who told me of the feeding of hunger that seemed almost mystical; but if I really accept the reality of the feast of glory, I don't really know why !should. 
Yet,just when one is ready to believe that all children are mystics of the Eucharist, he hears a story of misdeeds at the Urchins' Mass; and on the floor of the chapel, a communion is found, its edges turned up from the dampness of a child's tongue. Apparently that child, hoping for a 
flavor of sweetness as in a cookie, found only a taste like paper on his tongue, and spit it out, in ignorance of the Lord of sweetness to whom the bread belonged. 
It is impossible for an old-fashioned cleric like myself to hear of irreverence towards the Blessed Sacrament, no matter how innocently it happens, without being horrified. The responsibility of caring for the Blessed Sacrament was entrusted to me at ordination; and if I sometimes share that responsibility with parents, they must love the Eucharist enough to guard it against the innocent ignorance of urchins who accept faith, without understanding why, from their fathers and mothers. 
Of course, part of the poignancy of one's faith in the Eucharist is the very fragility of the bread that is the sign of the Lord's presence. It breaks and flakes at one's fingertips; and crumbs of it are forever falling off on the floor or the altar cloth, and getting lost. It would seem that the Lord should be wise enough to wrap His sacrament in plastics that could dissolve in the mouth. But, the theologians tell us, the accidents of the bread itself -its taste, color, and wheaten odor and taste -are only the elements bearing witness to the Lord's gift. If the bread crumbles, it is these elemental accidents, and not the Lord's glory, that lie in flakes on the chapel floor. 
sacramental accidents 
At last Sunday's Mass, there were sacramental accidents when we used, in place of the conventional hosts, altar breads made according to recipes received from the Benedictines. Afterwards, one anxious parent went around the chapel gathering up crumbs that the urchins had allowed to topple. "I've received communion three times," he said, "from the Eucharist !found on the floor." I felt torn apart with shame at the news, because if all my efforts at children's liturgies are going to result in a lost reverence for the Blessed Sacrament, then I have cheated urchins of their Catholic heritage. I remembered Dorothy Day, after a Mass said by Father Berigan at the Catholic Worker, on her aging knees, gathering up the Eucharistic crumbs that had fallen from the altar of sacrifice. Her faith was the faith of an old-fashioned Catholic; and when it comes to the Eucharist, God spare me the burden of a progressive faith. 
So this Sunday, with the help of a few dinner rolls and a few tins of sardines, we at the urchin'sMass will donthe lesson of the loaves and the fishes. We shall especially remember how, at theend of that picnic, all the fragments were gathered up in baskets, so that nothing at that feast was lost. 
I am not sure how much I can teach the urchins about the reality of s&craments. I am not certain how deeply God touches their hearts in these recondite matters. of faith. I am not sure how much the urchins ever understand any of the mysteries they assent to with politeness, and sometimes, cheering. 
But I think they can understand the im­portance of gathering up fragments, so that nothing ... absolutely nothing at all ... will ever be lost. 
I think that my urchins, come to worship, care enough about Jesus so that they will keep His sacrament from being lost. I think Jesus depends upon urchins living at all ages in the childhood of faith to see to it that there are no lost sacraments, just as there are no lost urchins. 
I 

mismatch at morris CIVIC 
Morris Civic scheduling has been rather even dares to approach an artistic outlook. odd in the past, but the concert planned for This is music to go to a concert to see per­this weekend should really win a prize for formed. mismatching. Slade and King Crimson Slade, on the other hand, is a band you have to be two of the most dissimilar groups invite to your dance for. some good time around, and oddly enough, the better of the boogeying. One of the many highly-touted two is getting second billing. "raunchy-rock" bands, Slade is surely the 
King Crimson is one of those odd bands king of the genre, if for no other reason than that almost completely changes its per­sheer power 'lnd energy. Where most sonnel between album releases, yet groups put out albums that usually have a manages to retain a singular sound. few rockers and a few slow songs, Salde Probably due to master organizer and produces nothing but rockers, a unique composer Robert Fripp's iron hand, this accomplishment if nothing else. continuation of sound also refuses to fall into Though this may also be somewhat in­the Moody Blues trap of single ·soundedness, dicative of the band's song writing talent (or a tribute to Fripp's discipline. lack thereof), it certainly does make for a 
good time. Barely breaking into the Top 40 
moody mellotron 

with hard-hitting songs like "Gudbuy T' 
Originally one of the many bands to follow Jane" and "Mama Weer All Crazee Now," Slade has shown it can rock with the best of them. Somewhat reminiscient of ZZ Top and the old Grand Funk, this type of very primitive, down to earth, gutsy rock has always proved popular and Slade is riding a crest of such popularity. Despite the winces of critics, Slade goes on and on with its own brand of rock and showmanship. 
showmanship 
And showmanship is also very much a part of the Slade concert. One of the many "glitter bands" in addition to the primitive rock sound, Slade likes to give its audience a show along with the music. So expect to see sparkle capes, 10-inch-heeled boots and top 
up the Moody Blues in the use of a mellotron. King Crimson is one of the few 
oppressionbands that pulled it off sucessfully, produc­
ing classic works in "I Talk to the Wind" and "Epitaph," which also shot Greg Lake into prominence with EL & P. Covering a lot of range with a jazz, rock and semi­This is an article that has long been classical background, they produce not a brewing in my meager mind. If not because simple rock sound, but an orchestra piece, of the times in the world, then particularly the compexity of which could rival Yes, and the times here at Notre Dame. The times, of The Mothers. King Crimson is also one of course, and the subject is women. I would those rare groups that can offer something never write this, but I figured that after for nearly everybody without sacrificing reading a week of "Well, here we are back their own unique sound, unlike Three Dog at Notre Dame -blah, blah, blah," it was Night. time to offer something rather than idle 
musings and torn out diary pages. This may not do the job and if it doesn't please send all 
doomed to obscurity 

your hate mail care of The Observer. Never before this summer was 1 aware 
But King Crimson currently seems that women hated men with such a passion. doomed to obscurity. Touring with Procol My eyes were opened to copies of Ms. Harum in July (another incredible magazine and various other feminist mismatch), the band agains played second literature in the past four months and it was fiddle to a rather second-fiddle band. The much to my shame as a member of the male group's most recent personnel change was species. The readings have had two main to obtain longtime Yes · drummer Bill themes. The first is how much men have Bruford (a very strange move on his part), supressed, abused and subjugated women and with him, King Crimson managed to for the last six thousand years in every outshine the featured Procol Harum. imaginable form of human existence. 
Their most recent effort, Lark's Tongues Secondly, how sickening, bad and repulsive in Aspic, shows again the group's ver­the images of women have been in the light satility and intent. Concentrating more on of this oppression.If anything, the literature violin than the old mellotron, Fripp circulating tells me of problems, questions produces interesting contrasts in style and and negabve statements about th~ pligp~ of 
1: 
#----­

women. The grapes of wrath are now being crushed by the feminist movement. After reading much of this my reaction is one 01 deep apology to women. If the hate and oppression are deep enough to cause such a reactionary body of literature to be written, there is great cause for retribution. 
Let us face it, though, there is good reason for it. Thank God we live in an age that is beginning to see other people instead of women, blacks, chicanos, etc. But women have taken it on the chin for a few thousand years now, much longer than any other so-called minority group. The funny thing is women aren't even a minority group. There are just as many women running around as 
joseph abel/ 

hats Sunday night. 
Though mismatched, King Crimson and Slade should produce a show well worth the time for all tastes. 
Chicago Stadium concerts 

By the way, tickets for the Moody Blues concert October 30 and 31 went on sale for $6.50, $5.50, and $4.50 last Saturday. The only problem is that you have to go to Chicago Stadium box office to get them. At last report, the first show and two-thirds of the second arealready sold out, but perhaps a few fleet-footed Blues freaks will be able to pick up the leftovers. Also, the next Monday night Traffic will be in the Chicago also. Tickets should be still available. 
mike davis 

We have been stereotyped in our image just as long as you have and the battle out of our super masculine ivory towers is a difficult task. Here at Notre Dame the first to allow women into the tradition of an all male university is hard on everyone for there is much to be destroyed before we build up again. Above all, be positive in all your actions, but be firm. Now that we are breaking down the stupid, thoughtless castes of male and female, let us replace it with something good and distinctively Christian. Notre Dame, one of the all time bastions of male chauvinism, has the potential to be one of the leaders in the new society of equality. Where there exists such 
men. So, the liberation of the female is a , a strong dedication to the furthering of long awaited, long needed event of worldly · masculinity, there certainly lies the 
historical importance. And we are for­tunate enough to be living in the age when it happens. And I do mean fortunate. There is nothing as beautiful as the new bloom or the first sights of the new crop of fruit. The first fruits of the new woman are now growing and the full growth of such a long mutant crop is taking place. 
What I wish to do with this idea is to ask a f~yori. c,»[\Vomep. Be pati~nt with u,s males. 
, . I 
potential for the furthering of humanity, made of females and males. 
I read or heard someplace back in high school that the ideal person was 60-40; sixty percent of one sex, forty percent of the other. Inside each man there is a woman who wants to cry at a sad movie and inside each women there is a man who wants to tell dirty jokes in the locker room.Let us all walk this primrose path together -side by side. 

~---------------­
the ob$erver. Friday, September 2a, 1973 
IIIII_I_....IIRIIIIHniiRIIII.IIIIL n•IIIIIIIUIIIIIIWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIr 
Forzner znayor dies
Chess pairings 
by firing squad 
Table White Black 
1 

2 Jim Monroe Sam Shapiro 
3 Loring Hannah Tom Murphy 4 Ron Frietag Mike Antolino 5 Pierre Espenan Charles Pittinger 6 Mike Fitzsimmons Chris Kohlmiller 7 Jerry Mondello Ken Bachman 8 John Newcomer John Burger 9 Steve Osborne Ed Jaquay 10 Dave Kilian Mike Parillo 11 Joe Sitter Mark Reilly 12 Kent Connes Fred Zinkann 13 Gary Kinnaman Bill Ellsworth 14 Jim Hanrahan Lincoln Soldati 15 John Masnovi Jim Stevens 16 Peter Huppner Bill Garner 17 Jim Hyland Ken Brown 18 Joe Picciana Glen Sorge 
18 Dave Peters Pardrig O'Brien 19 Kevin Byrnes Terry Noziglia20 Matt McRool 
B y e 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111' 
... 
Sailing is Notre Dame's unknown collegiate sport 
(continued from page 3) 
Sailing would be heard of. Notre Dame--one of the charter members of the now 42 school Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association -is a respected team in competition all over the country. 
Its history isn't really known even to its members--who keeps records of a sport called sailing? Recent history is all that is left. 
Start with the end of one era, 1970. The name-Richie Doyle, Notre Dame's unknown All­American. Believe it or not, sailing does have All-Americans, National Rankings, and National Championships. Only 14 sailors throughout the country are selected each year as all ­Americans. Doyle made it in 1968, 1969 and in 1970. For 3 years he was racing team captain at Notre Dame. In 1968 he was commodore of the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association. He led Notre Dame to the number one seed in the Mid­west. Notre Dame was ranked 4th in the nation in 1970, though few realized it. Most notably, Doyle was named "Collegiate Sailor of the Year" for the country in 1970, from a school that doesn't seem to know that sailing even exists. 
1970 also saw Notre Dame as the Midwest representative in the Kennedy Cup, held in 44' yawls at Annapolis. Tim Flood skippered the Notre Dame team. 
1971-A repeat by Flood in the Kennedy Cup. He was also elected as commodore of the MCSA. Notre Dame Football had its 4 Horsemen, the sailing team saw the begining of 3 sophomores who were to become known as the Big 3­-Will Donelan, George Gaw, and Kevin Hoyt. Hoyt and Gaw became racing team captain in successive years. All 3 eventually won the Notre Dme Yachtsman of the Year Award. 
Spring, 1972--Notre Dame just missed the chance to go to the Nationals. 
Fall,1972--The last year for the Big 3-the end of another era. Notre Dame goes to California for the Douglas Cup, a collegiate 
~ 
. match racing championship. Notre Dame shows team depth, and no longer ·is a team which hitches to regattas because of a lack of members or cars. 
Spring, 1973--the past--a good 

year. Notre Dame placed in the 
top 3 in all regattas except the big 
one--Midwest Champs. Notre 
Dame sends a women's team to 
Womens Midwest Champs. 
They weren't first,but what other 
sport at Notre Dame 
lets girls compete im­

tercollegiately both on the regular 
team and as a women's team. 
Fall, 1973--the present--same commodore, same captain, same lake, same team, same obscurity. 
Hopefully, it will be a past which can be remembered-one in which people will say they knew about the Notre Dame Sailing Team. 
a new awareness 

Just what is the Notre Dame Sailing Team? Actually it is a club and a team. Its purpose is to spread the sport of sailing to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. It "is not just for ex­perienced sailors and racers. Its captain never raced a sailboat until 3 years ago. Its commodore was in the club only a semester before being elected to that office. 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team does not have a coach, a public relations man or unlimited club funds. The ·team captain's position is not one of glory. The captain must run practices, determir~ who will sail in the regattas, and motivate the ream. He has to keep in touch with other schools, and try to have the best team possible to represent Notre Dame. The commodore has many of the same problems. He has to make sure things run smoothly within the club. 
Students can't understand why the sailors are willing to give up going to home football games in order to sail. They don't realize they would rather be one of 4 to 10 Notre Dame sailors at a regatta rather than one of 60,00 Notre Dame fans packed in the stadium on a Saturday afternoon, sup­posedly upholding Notre Dame's athletic tradition to the highest degree. 

Students don't understand why they give free lessons to their members who don't know how sail. 
You don't have to be big and strong to sail. The captain of th Notre Dame Sailing Team probably looks the least like a person involved in a sport on this campus. At 5'4" and 140 lbs., that isn't the conception most people have of Notre Dame athletes. 
V.P. Agnew refuses to resign office 
(continued from page 2) 
committee later discovered and is now "trying to make up for their losses at his expense," Reston wrote. 
The Times said Agnew was "not surprised" that House Speaker Carl Albert rejected his appeal for a hearing by a Senate committee on the charges against him "but he does not regard this as final." 
New Riders of the Purple Sage plus Roger McGuinn Oct. 5 
Tickets on sale now 
By ROBERT E. SULLIVAN 
SANTIAGO (UPI) -Chile's tough military junta executed a former mayor by firing squad Thursday and ordered another opponent put to death in crackdowns against supporters of ousted Marxist President Salvador Allende. 
The newspaper La Segunda, in a report approved by military censors, said German Castro, former mayor of the city of Talca during Allende's government, was executed for shooting at a policeman. 
The newspaper said Castro was put to death' in Talca, 150 miles south of Santiago, by an army firing squad. 
A military court in Quillota, 80 miles north of Santiago, Thursday ordered a firing squad death for Teobaldo Saldivar on charges of attack­ing a police post Sept. 17. The court did not say when he would be put to death. 
The four-man junta, which ousted President Salvador Al­lende in a military coup Sept. 11, has warned snipers they would be executed if caught. 
(continued on page 11) 


PRIMROSE ANTIQUES & GIFf SHOP 
Furniture -Glass . China . Primitives Mrs. Barbara Carbiener Bus. Phone: 255-5496 owner home 234-6728 
ROGERS 
OptiCal· 
Notre Dame's first 25~ Square Dance 
TONIGHT 
Friday -September 28 OLD FIELDHOUSE 8-11 p.m. y'a/1 come now, here? 
: · ', •'''· 9JI '· ·. · 
'.',, . 

I •1 ,•,•, . .. ; •1·' 11 ''•' 1·":•";• 

We Specialize in American Indian Jewelry
.. 
iOO Cenler 700 LincolnWay West Mishawaka, IN 46544 


SMC President urges passage of amendment 

by Melissa Byrne Staff Reporter 

"I urge the passage of the Equal Rights Amendment in Indiana because it would be a good sym­bolic gesture and good educational therapy for men and women," said Dr. Edward L. Henry, President of St. Mary's College in SMC's Carroll Hall Thursday evening, September 27. 
Henry was one of four par­ticipants in a panel discussion entitled "From the Voting Rights Amendment to the Equal Rights Amendment." The other panelists included Sandra Hojnacki, Janet Allen, and Sally Beard. 
Henry views a change in social attitudes toward women as most important in the fight for Equal Rights. He emphasized the vital 
Navy secretary dismisses charges 
by Edward K. DeLong Washington UPI 

Navy Secretary John W. Warner 
Thursday  dismissed  charges  of  
mutiny,  aiding  the  enemy  and  
other  prison  camp  misconduct  

against two high-ranking former prisoners of war despite evidence he said was strong enough to warrant legal proceedings. 
Instead Warner publicly cen­sured the two men claiming they failed to meet the standards ex­pected of officers" during their imprisonment in North Vietnam and ordered them retired "in the best interests of the naval ser­vice." 
Military sources said Warner made his decision reluctantly to avoid "a long, ugly court fight" he feared would hurt all returned POWs. Some military men said privately they objected to the action because it robbed the Code of Conduct of legal a1.1thority. 
Warner said through a Pentagon spokesman he had received suf­ficient evidence to warrant action 
110.000 in 2¥2 years 
Senate votes to return troops 
By WARREN L. NELSON 
WASHINGTON (UPJ) -In an at times raucus nighttime session, the Senate Thursday voted to order the administra­tion to bring 110,000 U.S. troops 
home  from  abroad  within 2 lh  
years.  
The vote  was  48 to  36.  
Just  30  hours  earlier  the  

Senate had voted against a proposal to order 200,000 troops brought home although six hours before that it had voted to bring the 200,000 home. 
Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, D­Minn., sponsor of Thursday's successful amendment, said it was aimed at troops "primarily and entirely in the Pacific and scattered areas" rather than Europe, and thus would not tie the hands of the Administration as It enters talks on mutual troop cutbacks in Europe with the Soviet Union. 
However, Congressional ob­servers said the Humphrey amendment would undoubtedly be killed in a conference committee with the House and would never enter the law. 
Earlier the Senate, near the halfway pofnT in--consideration of a $21.9 billion military procurement authorization bill, role schools can play in changing these attitudes. 
Asked what SMC can do to change cultural attitudes, Henry replied, "We can provide op­portunities for women to know themselves." He continued, "In this formative period of their lives some girls do not care to be in competition with boys." 
"Equality is not achieved simply by the existence of proper laws and executive orders. It is now a matter of changing cultural at­titudes so that sanctions do not have to be relied on to achieve equal treatment," asserted Henry. 
Henry acknowledged the possible d~feat of the Equal Rights Amendment. "But the day of salvation is at hand despite the possible defeat.. .One should not overlook the steady erosion in 
against Marine Lt. Col. Edison W. Miller, 41, of Tustin, Calif., and Navy Capt. Walter E. Wilber,43,of Columbia Crossroads, Pa. 
But he said he decided against presenting the evidence to the military equivalent of a grand jury because any benefits of legal ac­tion would be "more than offset" by the resulting exposure of other POWs to interrogation about their lives in captivity. 
Warner's action left prison camp misconduct charges pending against four enlisted men, but Pentagon sources said it appeared unlikely the charges would be pursued. 
Miller and Wilber the only two ex-POW officers accused of prison camp misconduct--were fighter pilots who expressedantiwar views in captivity. Wilber said in April he made statements against the war for the North Vietnamese without undergoing torture. 
Warner's decision ruled out legal action that could have led to a 
(continued on page 11) 

had defeated by a mere two votes an effort to slow down the Trident submarine program. 
Opponents of the Humphrey amendment hammered at the Minnesotan with ridicule and succeeded in flustering him while creating something of a carnival atmosphere. Hum­phrey often wrongly quoted his own proposal. 
When Humphrey explained that under his amendment Guam, the American possession in the West Pacific, was considered home territory and troops could be pulled back to that island, Sen. Russell Long, D-La., brought laughter to the packed chamber by shouting, 

PUBLIC RELATIONS MANAGER 
contact: 40 17 
or. Denise Pe~~:fM:W~~f.!l~~~;:~~~~f~~
-.... -··-~ ·----·-· ·-··-··· . ..--.~ .....-., SMC SOCIAL 
"You  try  to  tell  someone  from  
Louisiana  he's  home?"  
It  was  the  first  time  the  

Senate had ever voted to force troop withdrawals from over­seas -excepting Wednesday's flipflop vote. Senate Democrat­
ic Leader Mike Mansfield, Mont., has been introducing such bills for more than a decade. 
Humphrey first proposed ordering the withdrawal of 125,000 men over two years but that was changed on the floor to 110,000 men by Dec. 31, 1975. 
discrimmatory practices that is now occurring." 
Henry sees milestones for women's rights evident in em­ployment practices, divorce and marriage laws, and in equality of education. He noted a correlation between rising educational levels of women and their self-assurance in politics. 
He quoted a 1972 Newman Committee study which reviewed the role of women in higher education. "Discrimination against women is the only socially acceptable form of discrimination left in America," concluded Henry. 
"There has been a wide gulf between theory and practice in American democracy. The movement toward equality in this country has been a torturous and long one for women." 
Sandra Hojnacki, a panelist representing the League of Women Voters, also advocates the passage of the Equal Rights Amendment. She cited Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, and Sissy Farenthold, President of the National Women's Political Caucas, as examples of women utilizing rights already achieved. Chisholm and Farenthold were both recent speakers on the campuses of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Janet Allen, another panelist and South Bend city councilman-at­large, disagreed with Henry Hojnacki. "The solution .to the problem of equal rights for women is not another law." 
Allen believes personal con­victions are more beneficial in achieving equal rights than an unenforced law. "A woman's place is wherever she wants to be." 
She urges young women in­terested in political careers to start early, fill one or two terms in one office, and continue upward. "Now is the time to let the men know you want to work with them, not against them," Allen declared. 
Sally Beard, another panelist, representing the Daughters of the American Revolution, opposed the Equal Rights Amendment. "We often look to the Federal Govern­ment to solve problems we can solve ourselves," Beard suggested. 
She cited possible implications of all-women schools for the past 7 the Equal Rights Amendment. "If years, I find myself with the this amendment is passed, our disadvantage of a false sense of daughters will be drafted as our security. At school your rights are 
'also, there will be no required as good as anyone else's rights.
segregation of prisoners." 
This is proven false in the outside 

The audience was invited to world," Miller suggested.
participate in a question and an­Thursday's discussion was the 
swer period following the second in a series of 8 dialoguesdiscussion. Mary Rejent, St. 
entitled "A Woman's Place Is ... " 

Mary's student, commented, "It is SMC and the Indiana Com­up to us as women to inform mitteefor the Humanities sponsorpoliticians as to what we want and the series. The dialogues are when we want it." 
designed to aid local women's Joanell Miller, another SMC organizations in discussingstudent, added, "Having attended women's roles. 

~~thlB~J' 
·u~ ~~••• 
watch the PURDUE 
game with us ! ! pitchers -$1.25 

starts tonight OPEN 6:45 


r-TW~I'F·.·~·l?R
uiJ1111·. ··... lJl\U 
20 percent OFF with this coupon expires Oct. 6, 1973 
iust arrived s i I v e r turquoise iewelry 


Beautiful things to free your spirit and adorn your body .•.. hand made & imports 119 W. Colfax Avenue • South Bend 
or your convenience: 
the student union ticket office is open 11:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
Mon. 

1Q the observer Friday, September 28, 1973 
Renamed Haggar Hall of Psychology 
Wenninger-Kirsch Hall to be remodeled 

by Tony Prosio Staff Reporter 

The Haggar Hall of Psychology, a $750 thousand remodeling of the North Quad Biology Building, should be ready by next Sep­tember, according to Vice President for _Business Affairs, Fr. 
Jerome Wilson. 
Internal improvements on the 35­year-old Wenninger-Kirsch Hall are the gift of the Haggar Foun­dation, through a grant presented to University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh last December. 
Changes in the building have 
the grant, we will have both the 
eglnfirst and second floors and several 
rooms in the basement."
Hearings on Agnew b 
Muth was sentenced to 18 monthsMeeting in strictest secrecy a in jail in 1954, three years after hefederal grand jury began hearing left the dity council, for unlawfullyevidence thursday against Vice ovtaining $2,400 in city funds. LastPresident Spiro T. Agnew, whose fall, he did public relations worklawyers said they would still try to for I.H. "Bud" Hammerman, ablock the inquiry on constitutional Baltimaore mortgage banker andgrounds. 
long-standing Agnew political friend and fund raiser.
One of the first to appear before the 22 member grand jury in the As evidence against a vice federal courthouse in downtown president president of the United Baltimore was William J. Muth, States was presented to a grand public relations vice pres~dent of jury for the first time in history, an engineering consultant firm and Agnew attended a White House former vice presedent of the morning metting between Baltimore City Council. PRESIDENT Nixon and his 
Cabinet and RepublicanPsychology congressional leaders on legislative matters. "He did't say a word"and left the meeting early, one participant said 
workshop at 
later. He said the vice president seemed calm and "prepossessed as always." Agnew's legal troubles reportedly were never mentioned.
Saint Mary's 
Later, Agnew was at the Capitol, by Ellen Malvezzi standing by in the event he was Staff Reporter needed to break a tie vote in the Senate on accelerated develop­
A child psychology workshop ment ot the Trident submarine. series entitled "Non-Authoritarian Approaches to Discipline" will At the direction of Attorney begin Saturday, September 29 at General Elliot L. Richardson, U.S. Saint Mary's. The series is under Attorney GEORGE Beall and his the direction of Thomas Petersen, tearn of federal prosecutors began instructor, education department, presenting the grand jury with Saint Mary's College and is co­evidence gathered in their in­sponsored by the Indiana Com­vestigation of Agnew for possible mittee for Humanities. tas fraud extortion, bribery and 
conspiracy violations.
Dr. Don Dinkmeyer, co-author of 
Judah Best , one of the viceRaising a Responsible Child and a president's lawyers, said it mightprofessor of education psychology be Monday before he could file suir and counseling at De Paul in U.S. District court seeking toUniversity in. Chicago,· will block the grand jury's work on the 
conduct the first session at 10:00 constitutional groung that a vice 
a.m. in Carroll Hall. 
president cannot be indicted unless he is first impeashed by Congress
"Democratic Approaches to 
and removed from offece.
Discipline in the Family", will be Dr. Dinkmeyer's topic. Saturday's The suit , which could takeworkshop will examine alter­several months to reach thenatives to spanking, shouting, Supreme Court for final set­lecturing, punishments, and tlement, tood on new urgency forpermissiveness. In addition, Dr. 
been jointly planned by the classroom space into offices, and univerisity administration and the just the noise factor alone has Psychology Department, Wilson made the situation unsuitable." said. Transfer of the department of 
"Our present facilities are better facilities has been an issue inadequate," commented D_r. John since 1967, Borkowski said. Lack Borkowski, psychology chairman.­of funds has been the chief problem "The number of rooms available IS until now. minimal. We've had to turn "The Biology Building was often 
mentioned," he added. "Now, with 
• 

Increased space will house in­strue tional, office, and ex­perimental facilities. ClassroomsAgnew Wednesday. Speaker Carl and offices will be located on the
Albert rejected the vice 
first floor, with the second floorpresident's request for a House 
designated for research.
Inverstigation af allegations 
"The biggest space increasesagainst him. Democratic leaders will be in the research area," thereported agreement that the House department chairman continued.
shold stay out of the matter until 

the courts decided whether th vice president could could be indicted. 
Best said the timing of the suit 
ROME PROGRAM was not particularly relevent and that he was in "no hurry" to go to court. But he said nothing to 
A FEW PLACES ARE OPEN FOR
suggest that Agnew might resume negations with the Justice SwpMENT AND Beall's Office 
SECOND SEMESTER
looking toward a compromise solution of the constitutional question. Richardson said 
TO NOTRE DAME AND
Tuesday that two weeks of such negotiations which the Washington Post characterized as "plea 
ST. MARY'S STUDENTS bagaining" involving a possible Agnew resignation--ended without sucess. 
APPLICATIONS MUST BE IN BY OCT. 15th 
Fourteen republican members of 
AT THE LATEST 
the House Judiciary Committee, led by Rep. Edward Hutchinson, Mich., its ranking GOP member, 
Requirement: Minimum one semester Of Italian 
introduced a bill calling for 
with B grade. (Language cont. in Rome) At 
creation of a special nine member 
least sophomore status.
Judiciary subcommittee to in­vestigate allegations against Agnew. The panel would report within three months on any 
Obtain Information from: 
"impeachable offenses" it might have found. 
Sister Alma, C.S.C. 
At the courthouse, uniformed 
Co-ordinator of Off-Campus Programs
guards with walkie-talkies sealed 
Rm. 115 LeMans Hall
off a garage area wgere ggrand jury witnesses began arriving at 
Saint Mary's Campus 
9:30a.m. EDT. Upstairs, the entire north wing of the fifth floor ot the old Post Office building where the grand jury was meeting was closed to reporters. 
.Ciet your class act together 
A three-man CBS camera crew 
•..in Levi's Panatela· Slacks 

was taken into custody briefly by 
U.S. marshals when they were found on the roof of an adjacent seven-story building taking pic­tures of the courthouse. 
Dinkmeyer will discuss the principles of teaching children to be responsible for their own ac­
School house Too
tions, treating children as equals, 
winning cooperation, and using the 
In the Brewery
family council to resolve conflicts 
100 Center Complex
in the family. 
Mishawaka, Ind.
There are effective ways, Dr. 


Phone -259-8181
Dinkmeyer believes for parents to instill responsibility in children. He emphasizes that neither 

The midwest's most complete
authoritarian nor permissive approaches to child raising yield 
needlepoint shop much success in developing per­sonal responsiity. 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D 
The author of seven of several books and numerous articles in his 
HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm
field, Dr. Dinkmeyer has also 
SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m
prepared a program of classroom guidance materials for the American Guidance Service titled 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE
"Developing Understanding of Self and Others." The morning session will be held from 10:00 until noon, with a break I 
David Shaheen Ron De Petris 

for lunch, followed by the af-, ternoon session at 1::30 p.m. con­
Charlie Shreck 
Joe Klockenkemper 
tinuing until 3:30. Lunch will be available for $1.35 in the College's dining hall. 
Town & Country
FRI NIGHT

The workshop is free and open to 
Shopping Center
all interested persons. However, 
beneath cafeteria 

(Mini Mall)
9pm • lam

pre-registration is requested. fQJ;" 
. munchies etc. 

PHo·ne·255~2722
pre-registration; call·284-485c-· "It will be a multi-purpose facility involving all types of research activ~ty. There is very little room for that where we are now." 
Plans for the current Psychology Building, which has housed the department since it was formed in 1965, are not yet available. 
Renovation designs are the work of Ellerbe Architects, which has been involved with nearly all new buildings on campus, including the Library, Grace and Flanner halls, and recent Law School expansion. Finished plans are expected by early November. 
Psychology classes will share basement space with students from Indiana Medical School, Borkowski explained. As IMS facilities are provided elsewhere, expansion space will be available for new Psychology programs. 
Hours: Mon-Thurs: 12-9 Fri: 11-9 

-~------------------~--~-----: 
Visiting Prof. Hamilton to present lectures 
making processes in areas ofby Jeanne Murphy health, employment, welfare,Staff Reporter 
housing and the electoral behavior. His main interests are in in­Charles V. Hamilton, professor dividuals and groups, especiallyof Government and Political blzck Americans who are newScience at Co!u.rnbia University, participants of the political life inwill give a series of talks at Notre A •
r.menca.
Dame October 8 and October 9. He The first !)f Hamilton's taiks willis a visiting scholar of the Phi be entitled "Public Policy andBeta Kappa program. 
Urban Politics," and will be openDr. Hamilton is a national board to the public in the Librarymember of the NAACP Legal Auditorium at 8:00 on October 8.
Defense andEducationalFund and Also on the same date, he willthe American Political Science speak about "Black PoliticalAssociation of which he served as Thought" at ll:OOa.m. in room 317vice-president in 1972 and 1973. 
O'Shaughnessy. At 2:45 p.m., 
Last year Professor Hamilton October 8, the topic of his talk will did research on the political life of be "Intergroup Relations" in room Harlem while he was a Visiting 216 O'Shag. S..:holar at the Russell Sage On October 9, Dr. Hamilton will Foundation. He investigated who speak on "Sociology of Poverty" participates in Harlem politics, and "Black Man in America", at how, why, and what expectations 11:00 A.M. in room 1160'Shag. He and consequences result. This will be a guest at an informal research enabled him to study the coffee hour in the library lounge formal and informal decision-from 3-5:00 p.m. which will be 
Gov. Evans elected 
Chairman 
By JACK WILKINSON 
POINT CLEAR, Ala. <UPI) -Gov. Melvin H. Evans of the Virgin Islands became the first black to serve as chairman of the Southern Governors Confer­ence Wednesday when he was named to succeed Alabama Gov. George Wallace. 
Evans' unanimous elevation from vice chairman came in the closing minutes of the 39th annual conference in which the Southern governors demanded that the Nixon administration include the states in any national plan to ease the energy shortage. 
Gov. Reubin Askew of Flori­da, widely mentioned as a possible Democratic presiden­tial candidate in 1976, was elected vice chairman and automatically will move up to the chairmanship next year. He was unopposed after Texas Gov. Dolph Briscoe pulled out. 
of SGC 
Evans said he anticipated no problems as the first black to head the Southern governors "I have been the first black in so many things before I suppose the novelty has worn off." 
In their energy policy resolu­tion, the governors decided priorities in the event of any kind of fuel rationing. They also pictured improved technology as "our only hope for meeting the long term energy crisis, mitigating environmental ef­fects and maintaining our strategic international post­ure." 
The governors also approved resolutions condemning the practice of federal fund im­poundments, calling for in­creased offshore deepwater port exploration and a more equitable policy of disbursing water pollution control funds. 
Former mayor executed 
(continued from page 8) 
"Anyone who attacks our 
soldiers dies," a junta spokes­
man said. 
Military officials in Valdivia 
in southern Chile Thursday 
announced the arrests of Luis 
Espinoza Villalobos, a Socialist 
Collaboration charges dropped 
against POWs 
(continued from page 9) 
court martial and, if Miller and 
Wilber were convicted, to a 
maximum sentence of life im­
prisonment. 
Warner's statement said: 
"Further lengthy investigative 
and trial proceedings would 
necessarily involve extensive 
reinterrogation of many former 
POWs concerning their lives in 
captivity. They would thus be 
compelled to once again relive this 
period at a time when they and 
their families are attempting to 
resume and reconstruct their 
normal lives and careers." 
Robert B. Ingram, an associate 
of attorney Melvin Belli, told UPI 
in a telephone interview that 
defense lawyers were pleased the 
charges were dropped but angry 
Warnerhad not completely cleared 
the two officers. He left open the 
possibility of a suit complete 
clearing of the records. '" congressman in the Allende government and Bruno Garces Morales, a suspected leader of the Revolutionary Independence Movement, a leftist guerrilla group. 
Soldiers armed with automat­ic rifles and submachine guns kept up searches in the capital Thursday for weapons, but the junta eased curfew restrictions for the first time since the coup. The official radio said the 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew would be extended to 10 p.m. 
In Vina del Mar, 96 miles west of the capital, sailors reported a pitched battle with slum dwellers for the body of fl'lende, who died in the coup. There were no reported casual­ties. 
Newsmen visiting the ceme­tery saw Allende was buried in a relative's gravesite without any reference to the late president's name. 
open to students and faculty. 
This appearance is sponsored by the Notre Dame chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, the Black Studies Program and the Student Union Academic Com­mission. 
Under the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program, the Visiting Schoiar spends two to three days at a campus taking part in the academic life of the institution. This enables the Professor to become acquainted with the students and the faculty in various situations and gives the students an opportunity to meet and talk with scholars in other disciplines. Eighty-six such visits have been planned for the 1972-73 school year for Notre Dame. 
In 1971, he received the University of Chicago Alumni Professional Achievement Award and the Roosevelt University Alumni Award. He has held teaching engagements at Albany State College, Tuskegee Institute, Roosevelt University, Rutgers University, and Lincoln Univer­sity. 
Professor Hamilton .attended Roosevelt University where he received his B.A. degree in 1951. 
Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
THE ROMA 
welcomes NO & SMC students! 
your host Frank Anastasio 
*PIZZA 
*LIQUOR 
*ITALIAN FOOD 
Happy hours 4-7 daily 
Dancing to the sophisticated jazz-rock of the Bill Nicks Trio 
FOR DELIVERIES 
CALL 232-3258 
219 N. Michigan Avenue 
Downtown South Bend 

MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Ollie Williams, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Steve Malkiewicz, O.F.M. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
Evensong: 4~30 p.m. Lady Chapel 
He was awarded aJ.D.from Loyola University School of Law in 1954 and his M.A. from the University of Chicago in 1957. In 1964 he received a Ph.D. from 'the University of Chicago. 
Hamilton is the author of The Black Preacher and The Black 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per-SI:>nalized service. Catalog. PMP Co. Box 444. Gaither~ sburg, MD. 20760. 
Pioneer SA-500 amp, TX-500 tuner, and SR-202W reverb amp. Dynaco Sca80 amp 80 watts RMS. Best offer. Call 
8436. 
Handmade turquoise jewelery from the southwest. Rings, bracelets necklaces reasonably priced. Call Tom at 283-8373 or drop by 209 Pangborn. 
500c.c. Suzuki with 600 miles $650. 1949 H. D. basket case $150. Rick 233-9122. 
10-speed Peugeot just 6 mos. old. Must sell, graduating in 
Dec. $115. 8573. 
Martin 035 guitar with hard sheii case. Call Bill 283-1161. 
Pair ROC 2-way speakers. Originally $149. Had 2 mos. $120 or best offer. 232-6377. 
pandora's books 40per cent off on Journey to lxtlan, Breakfast of Champions, M.C. Escher, Buried Alive. and many other titles. Now thru 30 Sept. open noon to 9 mon thru sat., 9-7:30 sunday at 602 n. st. louis)at so. bend av.) 
Sony CF-620 AM-FM stereo receiver with speakers, built in cassette deck 1 yr. old. Ex­cellent condition. Ed 7965. 
2-F 78 x 14 snow tires. Used one winter. Like new. Mounted on rims. $20 each. !:all 272-7857 after 5 p.m. 
Suzuki T~s 400J. A Pache '72 
full  knobby  bike  helmet  and  
tools.  Excellent condition.  233·  
5287.  

NOTICES 

TONY'S SHOE SHOP:Shoe repair, shoe sales, watch bands, zippers, shoe care supplies. All types of leather repair. ON CAMPUS Behind Adm Bldg. 
Will do mending: repair zip­
pers,  seams,  tears.  Also  
altering, hemming, etc.  Call  
284-4601.  

Anyone interested in an in­tercampus ping-pong call 284­4601 after 10 pm 
Flanner's America needs solo and group musicans, rock or folk. For coffeehouse series. Contact Mike Hess, 912 Flanner, phone 1409. 
California club get acquainted picnic this Sunday 1-Spm. N. of road to SMC, W. of St. Joe's hall. 
Come to the old fieldhouse tonight for Notre Dames first 25cent square dance 8-11. 
Will do typing: term papers, manuscriptsetc. Call 233-6909. 
SLADE+ KING CRIMSON IN CONCERT SUNDAY NIGHT AT MORRIS CIVIC. TICKETS AVAILBLE AT THE DOOR. 
Frodo reaches Bree, he meets Strider at the INn. 
FOR RENT 

1 -2 room apt. 7 min drive to NO. Call 288~953~ after 3 pm. 
RIDES WANTED 

Need ride for 2, west on 1-80 Fri. Sept. 28. Destination Davenport. Will share ex­penses. Please call 512A. 
Need ride to Purdue Friday Sept. 28. Will share expenses call Rick 1796. 
Experience in American Politics. Among several of his articles are 
"Race and Edu~ation: The search for Legitimacy," "Conflict, Race and System Transformation " and "Southern Federal Judges a~d the Right to Vote." 

L____::::·~·~··::~:::::::::c:_____~R!ew~ar~d~.~~-=~~~=-~~·_J,. ,, 
WANTED 
Desperately need GA tix for Army, Navy games. Call 1364. 
Desperately need 4 usc tix 
Will pay. Call Pat 3273. 
Need 2~4 GAtix to MSU and USC Will pay. Call Scott 1598 or 214 Grace. 
Wanted two GA USC Tix 272­0913 in evening. 
Need 2 GA tix for USC. Call Jim 234~ 7022' 
Desperately need 2 GA MSU tix. Call Mike 1820. 
Need 2 MSU tix. Call Tom 6522­437 Cav. 
Want 2 MSU tix-GA or student passes with ID's. Preferably together. Please call 1434. 
I need 2 Purdue tix. Please call Chris 1469. Thanks. 
Need one or two tickets to MSU game . Call Bob 3451. 
Need 2 MSU tix . Call Alice 4435. 
Need 2 tix USC game. Call Jeff 1132 Pav well. 
Need 4 GA tix to MSU. Call John 282-1568. 
Need tix to MSU game. Call Chris at 6586. 
Desperately need 4 GA tix to MSU game. For visiting priests. Call 232-9460' 
Need 2 GA tix for MSU. Call 
Susan 6850. Desperately need 2 GA tix to Purdue. Will pay! Call Scott 1598 or 214 Grace. 
Rommate needed N D Apts. 832 NDAve. Apt 2-A. Call 233-1302. 
Need 2 tix to MSU game. Call OWL, 6864. 
Help. Desperately need 3 GA MSU fix. Call 5734. 
Need 3 MSU tix. Mike 3305. 
Need 4 GA ~ 3 Stu. tix to MSU. 8472 or 8475. 
Want 2 GA MSU tix. Call 5465. 
~adly need 4 USC and 8 MSU lox Cor any combination). Tim 3176. 
Need 1GA ticket for MSU. Call !.teve 1545. 
Need one or two Purdue tix. Call 8419. 
2-6 GA tix needed for USC will pay reasonably exobitant prices. Also, 2 GA tix MSU needed. 232-2973. 
--~ ~---~­
Scalpers attention: Need MSU tix GA or Stud. Sharon 287~ 4003. 
Need MSU tix call Mary 4079. 
Desperately need USC tix Call Kathy 3784. 
Need 2 GA MSU tix. Call Jim 7938. 
Have Purdue ticket. Call ;..,aria 4027. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found a key near the south quad. Call Debbie 5149. 
Lost 4 mo, old black and white malamute pup Sat. night near Kennan. Reward: 232-8811. 
Lost girls tortoise shell framed glasses in white case near senior bar, stadium. Help 1 cant see. peggy 4268 !$$. 
Found Gold lapel pin with 
picture of Liszt-call Susan 6850. 
Lost: one checkbook, blue cover drawn on Dallas. Texas, bank. Calt Joseph Abell at 7964 or 1715 
-

----------------------------------------------------------------~---.----~--------~------------~~ 
the observer 

Ara. Agase renew past rivalry 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 

Only once during the past 10 vears has Alex Agase gotten a orofessional break from Ara 
'arseghian, his coaching com­natriot. 
That one instance came in 1964, when Parseghian gave up the head .:oaching job at Northwestern and moved 100 miles down the toll road ~o South Bend. Ara's departure for .IJotre Dame ieft a vacancy in the .:oaching ranks at Evanston, and 
\gase was named to fill the empty position. 
Since then, the two have had an <>n-the-field relationship that has oeen heavily weighted in Notre Dame's favor. The two have been 11n opposing sidelines in Notre Dame-Northwestern games seven !imes since the '64 shuffle, and Notre Dame's record in those seven games is 7-o. . 
-
Saturday, Alex Agase and Ara Parseghian will again face each 
other from opposing sidelines, but 
this time each will have a clean 
slate. 
Agase has inherited the head coaching reins of Purdue's Boilermakers, and Parseghian's Irish will clash with the Boilers tomorrow at 12:50 p.m., in a nationally televised contest from West Lafayette. 
But after the first two weeks of the '73 season, this Agase­Parseghian reunion has been given the overtones of years past. Agase's Boilers will bri!!g a 1-1 record into the game. The loss came last week: a 24-19 upset at the hands of Miami of Ohio, and the victory came the week before: a 14-3 decision over Wisconsin at Madison. 
The Irish, on the other hand, come into the game 1-0, after an impressive 44-0 home opener against Northwestern. Par­seghian 's squad is also the healthier of the two. The Irish escaped their run-in with Nor­thwestern with no serious injuries, and will start the same 22 players in Saturday's confrontation with Purdue. The Boilers, though, haven't been so fortunate. 
Wide receiver (and Olympic sprinter) Larry Burton sprained his right shoulder during last week's loss to Miami, and is ex­
, pected to be side-lined at least until 
Vic Dorr================================:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=============: 
The Irish Eye 

Quality has always been a nebulous thing,and always a difficult thing to ?in down.Any coin collector can produce an uncirculated coin, but mint :;>ieces are not so commonplace. In like fashion, any corner jeweler can pluck a diamond out of a display case, but not just "any" jeweler will be able to insure that his stone will be a flawless one. 
It's the same for a week's football games. Fifteen good games are not 
:tard to find, but one great game is often a scarcity. This week, though, rhe-Irish Eye doesn't have to worry about singling out one great game. ·:::hris Schenkel, Bud Wilkinson, and Duffy Daughtery have taken care of chat already, by selecting Notre Dame-Purdue as their NCAA College i!'ootball game of the week. 
Nor is there any better game to lead off this week's Jist of gridiron •:uesses. 
Notre. Dame at Purdue: Even at West Lafayette, and even if it rains, theirishwill take this one.Alex can't seem to beat Ara, and for the past 1hree years, Purdue hasn't been able to beat ND. Fineran: ND; Corgan: "'D; 
California at Army: The Cadets were manhandled by Tennessee last weekend, but Tom Cahill, Kingsley Fink, and Co., won't allow it to happen again. Especially against California. Fineran: Army; Corgan: Army' 
Auburn at Tennessee: The Vols had a breather last week, but the've got a bear on their hands this weekend. The game's in Neyland Stadium, ':hough, and that should give enough of an edge toUT. Fineran: Ten­:tessee; Corgan: Tennessee. 
Rhode Island at Brown: Brown seeks to equal its two-year winning ~otal in one day. They'll beat URI's Rams, no and's, if's, or butts about it. ~ineran: Brown; Corgan: Rhode Island. 
NC State at Georgia: They're playing it in Athens, and the Bulldogs ;hould catch the Wolfpack "down" after last week's near-miss against ''Jebraska. Fineran: NCState; Corgan: NCState. 
Kentucky at Indiana: The Hoosiers should take this gridiron rematch 1f last year's NCAA basketball quarterfinals. Fineran: Kentucky; :::organ: Indiana. 
Rice at LSU: The Owls have quie a schedule ttis year. The lost to '-louston, and tey'lllose to LSU. In two weeks, they play NBotre Dame. <'ineran: LSU; Corgan: LSU. 
UCLA at Michigan State: Just like his father used to do, the Bruins' 
-Iarmon will lead his club to a convincing win over a struggling Big Ten 
1pponent. Fineran: UCLA; Corgan: UCLA. 
Missouri at North Carolina: Mizzou's Tigers clawed Virginia last :.veekend. Tomorrow, te opposition will be rougher, but th result will be todifferent.Fineran: Mizzou; Corgan: Mizzou. 
Wisconsin at Nebraska: J:he Big Red in a romp. Too bad (for 
¥isconsin) the game isn't hockey. Fineran: Nebraska; Corgan: 
'Jebraska. . 
Pitt at Northwestern: You don't recover quickly from a 44-o drubbing. >articularly if you happen to be the Northwestern Wildcats. Fineran: ~itt; Corgan: Pitt. 
TCU at Ohio State: Last year, the Horned Frogs found out what a Notre )arne defense played like. Tomorrow they'll discover the same thing tbout the Buckeyes. And their discoverywon'tbe any more pleasant. <'ineran: OSU; CoTJ~an: OSU. 
Texas Tech at Texas: The bounces (following fumbles) went against, Purdue's meeting with Illinois on October 13. Senior safety Carl Capria, middle guard Tim Arm­strong, and offensive guard Ralph Perretta also missed the Miami game, and may or may not be available for duty tomorrow. 
And Agase, who has seen his best Northwestern teams terrorized by Irish squads of p<.ist ye~rs, is taking a dim view of Notre Dame's statistical and medical ad­vantages. 
"Each player is different and 
· each case is different," observed the veteran coach, "but injuries and the lack of them will deter­mine quite a bit of the success we hve or don't have. 
"Against Notre Dame, now, we'll be facing a team with the same power they've always had, but with the speed to go with it in <Eric) Penick and (Art) Best. (Tom) Clements is now an established quarterback and he really understands their offense. He throws well on the run and is a good runner. This gives them the opportunity to use those option plays where Clements can either run or pass. He can hurt you both ways. 
"They are," Agase concluded, "one of the top teams in college football." 
But despite their own 1-1 record, Agase's Boilermakers aren't exactly cellar-dwellers. Purdue was hit hard by graduation last spring, but returns several blue­chip ball-players on offense and defense. 
Capri a <6-3, 181) if healthy, linebacker Rick Schavietello (6-1, 
213) and sophomore end Ken Novak (6-7, 263) will anchor the Boilermaker defense,and a core of returnees are the nucleus of the Purdue attack. 
Senior quarterback Bo Bobrowski (6-2, 199), and junior halfback Skip Peterson salvaged some Boilermaker pride in last year's meeting between the two clubs by scoring a pair of second half touchdowns after ND had built a 35-o lead. They'll be joined tomorrow by junior tight end Barry Santini (6-4, 222) and senior wide receiver Danny Roman (5-11, 182). 
"Our defense played well again for the second week in a row," said Agase after the Miami upset. "But we taxed them once too often because of mistakes. I still say this is a good football team. We must try to regroup now and get ready for Notre Dame. 
"But we've got to cut down on 
IH football 
To be the best takes a lot of work along with luck. This Sunday fourteen teams will be hoping for a little of that "Luck of the lrsh" as the 1973 Interhall Football season begins. 
Hilighting Sunday's action will be last year's IH champions Morrissey tangling wth a stronger than usual Cavanaugh squad. Perennial powerhouse Dillon will also be in action against Pangborn. 
Somethingnew and exciting is being offered by IH football this season. Every Wednesday (starting Oct. 2) games will be played under the lights on Car­tier's astroturf field. 
This week's schedule is: Sunday: Sept. 30 Time 1. Lyons -St. Joe (Field 1) 
1. Gra~e-Kennan (Field 2) 
he Longhorns in their upset loss to Miami. Darryll won't let his boys· 2. Mornssey-Cavanaugh (1) .nake those sam mistakes in front of a down-home crowd in Austin. 2. Dillon-Pangburn (2) .,ineran: Texas; Corgan: Texas. 3. Howard-Zahm (1) 
Upset oftheweek: Oklahoma over USC: Both clubs are unbeaten, and 3. Sorin-Alumni (2)
.. 
>oth are pretty fair teams. But Anthony Davis appeared on the cover of 4. Flanner-Qff-Campus (1) iports Illustrated this week, and that's reason enough to anticipate an Wednesday, Oct. 2 1pset. 7. Pangborni-Alumni Last week: 12of 15, .800pct; season: 24-30; Fineran: ll-15, Corgan: 11-8. Lyons-Cavanaugh l5. 9. St. Joe-Zahm 

our generosity," he fumed. "those work out a defensive plan. They 
breakdowns and turnovers (three use a number of formations with a 
fumbles, two pass interceptions) great deal of motion. This puts a 
cost us dearly Saturday." strain on the defense so we will 
Notre Dame's young, plundering have a lot of work to do this week. 
defense wouldn't object to five But we won't let either our victory 
Purdue turnovers on Saturday, but or Purdue'sloss influence our 
their coach isn't banking on it. mental preparation for the game." 
Parseghian is looking, instead, at The on-paper difference between 
the Boilers' potential. the two clubs hasn't bothered 
"I've known Alex (Agase) well ticket sales, either. The lure of a 
enough," said Ara, "to know that traditional Notre Dame-Purdue 
despite last week's results he'll dogfight will draw a nationwide TV 
have his team well-prepared. audience and nearly 70,000 paying 
"The nature of Purdue's offense customers to Lafayette's Ross-Ade 
presents problems in trying to Stadium tomocrow afternoon. 
Frank Pomarl·co············...........-...-.·.·············-·····························-·.·.·········;·.·
.·.·······························································-·.·.•..•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.• 

Captain's Corner 
:·:·:·:·:·;-:·:·:·:·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·.·.·.······:·=·=·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·;·;·.·.·.·.· f'Le sl·lent gl·an t 
••• •.• ···-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·.·.·-·-•••• 0 •••• 0 •• ·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-· 
.II. 

Notre Dame 44-Northwestern {). Wow,Mom, wow! What a way to start an Irish drive to the 1973 national championship. 
Ever since September 2nd of this year I've been on the sidelines wat­ching the offense and defense develop into one of the most explosive teams in the country. The personality of this Irish football team is much different than that of past years. This team is young and hungry for victory and has the ultimate goal of being rated number one at the end of the college season. 
The team seems to be maturing week by week, and in doing so has developed a confidence which is only felt by champions. The youth is tremendous for a Notre Dame team, but it is blended very smoothly with the experience of some of the top ball-players in the country. I would like to share with you my personal experience with two of these players: Tom Clements and Mike Fanning. 
Tom Clements, who received the offensive award from the coaches, and Mike Fanning, who won the defensive award: both awards were for outstanding play in the Northwestern game. 
_ Tom Clements is from McKee's Rocks, Pa. A very quiet person in public; however, very colorfulamong family and friends. He is reserved, polite, and always courteous to everyone. He is very well-liked by the coaches andplayerson the team, and is a very easy person to get along with. Tom has a very unique talent of being able to lead a team in a quiet way. Apart from his great running and passing, his mere presence makes the team go. It seems that whenever the team needs a big play we all look to Tom to come up with the necessary yeardage. 
I'm sure this point was brought out very clearly against Northwestern when he passed for one TD and scored two himself. In describing Tom, one must also mention his toughness to combat life and accept its short­comings and successes. Tom Clements is truly a Notre Dame man. 
...and looking forward to the upcoming games of this season, Tom, along with the rest of the offensive unit, will be tough to stop. 
On defense we look at Mike Fanning, a 6-6, 258 pound defensive tackle from Tulsa, Okla. To some people off the field he is knowwn as the "gentle giant." lie, too, is a quiet person,and hehas a great con try-western sense of humor. He is an independent person and many people look up to hime for his independence and ability to make his own decisons. 
Mike has had some ups and downs in his college career. However, he has taken his misfortunes and turned them into successes. He has tremendous dedicationto workingout-and being prepared for the football season. Mike likes to run and work during the off-season with the new Nautilus weight machine, and he does so very religiously. 
This dedication has finally paid off and was rewarded last Saturday, when Mike spent the afternoon in the back pocket of Mr. Mitch Anderson, Northwestern's QB. Mike has clearly, by his personality of in­dependence, become a leader. And by his great desire and determination he has become one of he best at his position . 
Mike feels that the defensive team is the most well-rounded unit since 1970 and promises many more Saturdays like last Saturday. Congratulations, Mike, and keep up the good work. 
A young, but experienced team--with players like Tom Clements and Mike Fanning~ Notre Dame's opponents should beware, for a silent giant is ready to take hold and become one of the national football powers of the 1973 season. 


