
Faculty Unions at Notre Dame 
•.•.• special section pp 3-10 

On The Inside 
Women's Caucus Meeting ... page 2 
Irish icers sweep two ... page 12 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII, No. 68 Monday, January 29, 1973 

Peace observance draws 4,000 
Hesburgh: No certain peace 
by John Abowd 
and Mike Welby 

It is 5:45 in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center. 
Over half of the 4,000 people attending the "Peace Observance" are on the carpeted basketball floor for the con­secration of the bread and wine. The only light in the South Dome shines on .James Cooney, executive director of the Alumni Association, as he reads the list of the 32 Notre Dame graduates who died in the twelve year long Vietnam war. 
Cooney's reading was nearly the final act of the observance which began with Fred Schaefer playing piano three hours earlier and ended in a buffet supper served from eleven lines.. 
University President Fr. Theodore llesburgh delivered the sermon at the concelebrated mass which highlighted the observance. His sermon keynoted the general tone of the afternoon when he said: "There is really nothing to celebrate--no real victory for anyone, no certain peace for anyone. For a moment. the guns are silent." 
Hesburgh called the present mood of the country "the most disunited" since the Civil War. He noted in support of this claim that "the whole coun­terculture that has developed has brought on a new facism." 
"We have witnessed a devaluation of American life which is best seen in the violence and killing that war sym­bolized," Hesburgh said. 
The former chairman of the U.S. Civil Hights Commission also said that America had experienced a "dE'basement of language and value" when the military claimed that it had to "destroy to liberate. Now they are free, whatever that means in such a con­text," he continued. 
llesburgh countered the military viewpoint by saying, "If we have learned anything in this decade it is the foolishness of war. Any of us who think at all would have to say that violence is no solution to any human problem. One should echo the words of Pope Paul IV, 'Enough of war.' " 
Comparing the world to a spaceship, llesburgh said, "Peace is not possible except insofar as we are working for justice. Think of the world as a spacecraft with only five people instead of 3.5 billion." 
In the analogy the one passenger who represents the western world has 80 percent of the world's resources while the other four passengers must share 2Q percent. "What chance is there for peace and love aboard this spaceship?" Hesburgh asked. 
He noted also that the United States with five percent of the world's 
Principal celebrant Fr. Hesburgh and Fr. David Burrell, one of the 40 concelebrants, face the participants in yesterday's peace observance mass. (staff photos by Mike Budd, ) 


population was using 40 percent of its must become micro-virtues that touch resources. ·~That is not justice and it your lives." cannot be justice." · "As you educate yourself for com­
Hesburgh then suggested that petence take the time to educate students become "mediators" of the vourself in value. When you go into the peace process. "Peace and justice ~orld consider how much you do for yourself and how much you do to better the world," Hesburgh said, concluding that "Although you cannot look into the past with love. you should view the future with courage, dedication, hope and love. Then, we have something to celebrate here today." 

The peace observance began at 3:00 
p.m. with an invocation by Fr. James Burtchaell, university provost. · Burtchaell emphasized the "con­fusion" surrounding the current peace. "The day is proud with honor, yet uneasy with distrust. Welcome is prepared for prisoners, but no welcome will serve to call back those many more dead. We are quit of the war, yet know that our hearts are never quit of the hostilities that breed war." 
Cordelia Candelaria, a graduate student. conducted the music and readings program that preceeded the mass. 
The songs and selections centered around three themes: the end of the Vietnam war. "the quest for peace," and the search for spiritual awareness. 
The readings included the familiar passage from Ecclesiastes (3: 1-8) read in Vietnamese by Monique Kobayashi, a graduate of St. Mary's. 
The program was assembled in four days by a committee of faculty, students and administrators under the direction of Fr. Burtchaell. 
, ~ 

Sunday night robbers hit Alumni 

see story on page 2 

Monday, January 29, 1973 

warld 
briefs 
{C) 1973 New York Times 

.. Saigon--After a violent beginning, the Vietnam cease-fire appeared to be gradually taking hold Sunday night. South Vietnamese military r!'ports indicated that the intense fighting that had marked the early hours of the cease-fire was waning, that some opposing-units were disengaging from contact and that only "minor ground action" was 
still going on. 
. Maimi--President·Nixon in a radio address Sunday disclosed plans for reductions in long-standing programs of aid to hospitals, schools and urban areas and appealed to the nation to put pressure on Congress to cut Federal spending. Nixon also disclosed proposals for using some of the Federal savings to aid pollution control, crime fighting. drug addiction rehabilitation and increased cancer and heart disease research. He also repeated his determination to avoid a tax increase. 
Washington--The North Vietnamese communists have notified the t1nited States that they hold 555 American military prisoners in North and South Vietnam who will be released within the next two months. To Washington's concern, however, North Vietnam has provided no information about American prisoners who may be held in Laos. The P('ntagon lists six prisoners who may be missing in Laos. 
an campus taday 
7: 30--meeting, celtic society, international room, Iafortune. 
8:00--film, the great thaw, civilization series, university club. 
8: 15--organ recital, dr. arthur lawrence, sacred heart church. 


at nd-smc 

Armed robbers hit Alumni Hall 
campus ended at about 10:30 p.m. for the mbbers. who proceeded to trainer! ;1 pistol on him. 
Appar!'ntly. the students had 

by Ed Ellis when the robbers fired two shots at hind and gag the students and rifle 
Surprised by this, the student difficulty convincing Security that

Bob Higgins a student who pursued them from the room. Two more students 
f]('d. followed by all three robbers. th!'y wl're serious. The police

Jerry Lutkus the hall into the main quad. In their \'isited the room during the next 
Another Alumni resident. hearing answPred the eallin about fifteen

flight. they forgot a gun in the hour and were forced at gunpoint
Three armed men held six Notre 
shouts and noise in the hallway, minut!'s. and are currently in­

Dame students captive on the room they had just left. to n•main. 
ld't his room and chased the n•stigating. St. Joseph County

second floor of Alumni Hall for 
Tlw episode ended abruptly gunml'n outside and down the quad l'olic!' w!'rc aIso summoned to the

The robbery had begun an hour
more than an hour last night and 
when another student came to the toward O'Shaughnessy Hall. He eampus. but have deferred to

Parlier when the three men in­
t•scapcd with an estimated $70 in 
locked door of the ransacked room. rl'port!'d that the robbers fired campus officials in handling the

tl'rrupted four of the students who
eash. 
The robbers tried to lure him into twice at him in their flight. affair. Ddectives from the County 

had been watching television in 
the room. but when he failed to l'olil'l' Department will enter the

their room.
This latest in a recent rash of r!'cognize the voices, he hestitated. . . _ im·!'sligation upon the filing of an 
burglaries and robberies on A knock on the door gained entry and at this point, one robber l\ll'anwh1le. the VICtims had official report by Notre Dame locked the door behind the thieves Spcurity. Sl'curity will release and called Notre Dame Security. mon• d!'tails tnday. 
decried:;:;:;:;::=====================================:;:;:;:;:;::============:=~=~=~=~===~=;=~=;=;====================:=;=;=;=;=;=:=======:=·:-:-:::,:,:,:,:·::;;:==:====




'DOuble standard' 
Night Editor -Marlene Zloza Asst. Night Editor--Chris Sullivan by Bill Sabin sPmt•ster last night. the Caucus luneh and dinner. and the women Layout -Kathy Kelly. AI Rutherford Staff Reporter • appointed a committe headed by urg!'d all students to sign it. Typists -Steve Roper, Harry Chung, Rob Barringer, Mary Romer, Bob Stein. mctz
Tl'rry Anderson and Kitty Carroll Katie Duffy objected to the 
Pictureman.. Jerome Phillips (Happy Saturday Birthday)The Women's Caucus of N:>tre to find out exactly how many University's rationale for the Copy Editors -Ed Ellis, Mike O'Hare Dam!' denounced Fr. Riehle's wonwn have planned on moving dPcision. which is to facilitate Hal Operator--Mike Goetz 
Sports Night Editor--Jim Donaldson

controversial announcement about off-campus next year. and to eo!'ducation. Calling it "utilitarian 
Night Controller--Dave Rust (straight from Cincy)woml'n living off-campus as unfair gather support by means of a rather than humanitarian", she Thanx tor the lip Lucille and another result of the "double­p!'tition and informal discussions. also said."Personally, I'm tired of 
standard" at Notre Dame. ThP petition will be available for living a dorm and don't see why I 
::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~===~=~=~=~=~:::~=~===~=~:::::::::~:!:~:::::~:~:::::::::~:::~:~:~:~:~:=:~:~:~:~:~:::=:~:~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~ 

At its first meeting of the signingin the dining halls today at should be forced to remain." She also cited the "incessant chat­tPring"and the "eonfining" at­mosphere of dorm-life in general.as rPasons for moving off-campus. 
Complaints reach peak Mock Stock Market planned 
In other areas of discussion.

SMC Dleals defended 
is to allow participants to learn
Alana MeGrattan praised the h.\' Bob Quakenbush 
about and experience the workings 

by Janet Longfellow around January and February. gPnl'rosity of the now-defunct Staff Reporter 
of thl' stock market without run­

Staff Reporter "The weather is always bad and Student Drug Information Center 
ning the financial risk it involves in 

dreary. so people like to blame the whieh has donated $235 of its
Complaints have reached a peak Simulated buying, trading, and 
real life. The Finance Club plans

food service if they see the same remaining funds to the Women's
coneerning the food service at St. cash prizes will highlight the Mock 
to handle our market in a very

l\larv's. One rumor claims that the item served twice in a week." Caueus. She stated that with these Stock Market beginning February 
professional manner. For in­

food.quality is going down because When there are complaints, the additional funds tentative plans !i and extending through March 2·. 
stance a computer will be utilized

Saga Food .Service has switched managers suggest. "There is a arl' being made to bring speakers The Notre Dame Finance Club and 
to k!'!'p track of all earnings,

from its "Plan A" to "Plan B" food committee at St. Mary's. to Notre Dame by the Cacus. 
lh!' bmkerage firm of Thomson & 
loss!'s. and transactions."

Students should find out who their Crawford Casswell. Saga representatives are and utilize it to Tlw Women's Caucus also moek Nt>w York Stock Exchange in 
qua lit~·. l\kKinnon. Inc. will sponsor the 
Tlw "game will be conducted 
diseussed the problem of security

l\lanager at St. Mary's dining hall. air their gripes. We can be th!' main lobby of the Hurley 
lm the following manner. For a

flexible." at !'JolrP Dame. prompted by the
denied the rumor by saying, "I College of Business Ad­
Among suggestions Saga is me1dent of Thursday in which a on!' dollar entrance fee. par­
know of no such food plan and the "linistration. 
Ll'wis lla\1. Student was attacked tieipanls will be granted $20,000 of

food quality has not changed." eonsidering are the possibilities of Combining elements of a game
health foods from Berens Springs on hPr way back to her dormitory. moek buying power. They can use
In speaking of food quality, and an exhibition. the Mock Stock 
and a request for llowPver. this and the question of their account to invest in any
Casswell included the question of milkshakes. !\Iarke! should be profitable for all 
Pxpanded Health Services for stol'ks on the market. using

fruit quality also. He backed his Casswell commented, "If the who take part. according to James 
suggestion is possible, we will \nmwn W('re tabled till next week's \rhatever method they wish to
statement. explaining. "Saga Wald. chairman of the committee
nH'{'ting. Pmplo~·. wh!'ther through wise

op!'ratl's on a thirteen-week menu carry it out." in eharge. "Our primary purpose 
judgml'nt or trust in Lady Luck. 

c~-ele which is the same at all the 
Stoeks l'an be purchased in "round

participating schools. varied only 
lots" of 100 shares or "odd lots",

slightly by regional preferences. If 
and a small "commission" will be 

an itl'm is low in popularity, we 
Alumni as co-ed dorm? 
Pxael!'d on each transaction. One

will lake it out. We always try to 
ean buy, sell. or trade as often as

k!'t'p variety." 
lw wishes. or stick with his initial

b_v Mike Welby
Tlw size of the dish portions has residents. no increase and to the hall itself. the proposal 
in\'estment for the entire four
Staff Report....

;tlso been criticized. some sometimes a decrease in provided for a change in the 
weeks. March 2, the three in­

suggesting that rising food costs A year ago, a proposal was made promiscuity. and no change in the personel. Two of the six resident 
\"l'stors with the most profits will

hav!' caused Saga to cut down on changing Alumni Hall into a amount of time spent studying. assistants would be women to 
he awarded cash prizes of $35. $25.

mrat dishes and increase the coeducational dormitory. The The study also included a list of provide counselling for the female 
and $15 donated by Thomson &

starehes. proposal. originally suggested by physical ehanges that would have residents. 
l\leKinnon.

Casswell claimed that. "Costs Alumni Rector Fr. John Mulcahy, to be made if the experiment was Alumni's experimental offer 
"Anvone can win." comments

have increased greatly over was made hy former hall president to he allowed. The changes, all received little support from ad­
\\'ald.· "For instance. last year a

!{on Pogge after a semester of
Christmas vacation, but we stick to relatively minor. provided the ministrators. Ron Pogge, then hall 
freshman from Howard Hall beat

the same policy that you can come research by several Alumni female residents with private president. felt that most of the 
our professors and business ad­

hack for more." residents. sanitary facilities and baths. The administrators were willing to talk 
ministration majors alike."

The proposed plan would have girls rooms would be spread
liP accounted for the alledged but that was alL 
Al'luallv. the four week session is 

increase in starches with the made Alumni Hall an ex­throughout the building having "Regardless of what they told 
Phase 11 of the Mock Stock Market. 

example. "Out of the thirteen week perim!'ntal case in coed living. men and women in rooms adjacent ~·ou. you got the impression they 
PhasP I commenced in November

eycle we will have roast beef ( 'opies of the study and of the to each other. were going to do just the opposite 
and dealt with long term in­

thirteen to fifteen times, despite proposal were given to all of the The proposal provided a as soon as you left." 
\'estment over a six month period. 

the high rise in price." The major administrators. sereening process to evaluate Pogge went on to say, "If a 
Phase 1ends May 9, when identical 

;1lternative is to serve something In the study, the effects of prospective · members. This proposal of this nature is ever 
prizes will be awarded.

onP-half that price. such as coeducational housing at other screening would allow the hall to going to get the support of this 
As a bonus for those entered

strawberries and waffles or cheese campuses were considered. The select those residents who agreed administration. it will have to 
Phase l. each dollar they invested

fondue as a necessary third choice, finding was that in other cases with the goals of the community come from an administrator and 
in November permits them to

experiments coed had from student group
to offset the cost. Casswell con­in living being built. not a or of 
purchase an equal amount of

tinued. "Hopefully this will work been both successful and The proposal also allowed for students. Until then. the idea will 
buying power in phase II for fifty

as long as people will come back beneficial. Other universities instruction of the residents to in­be ignored." 
l'!'nts.

noted a greater sense of com­
and take the third choice item so form them of the details involved !<'ather Hesburgh refused to 
The Mock Stock Market will

munities. more mature attitudes in eoed living. The experiment speak with Pogge about the
that we won't run out of the 
open Monday. February 5.

others." and behavior. reduced damage to would be evaluated on a year to proposal. Hesbuegh felt 1.hat coed 
Exchange will

Casswell sees a portion of the resident halls, a quieter at­~·ear basis and renewed solely on housing would lead to promiscuity. take place from 
10.00 to 12:ll0 and I :00 to 3:00,

mosphere. an increase in in­the results.
problem stemming from students' 
l\londays through Fridays until

attitudes "typical" every year tellectual exchange between hall Along with the physical changes (continued on page 11) 
March 2. 

! 


., 
z 0 

>
1­
::) 
u 


c( LL. 
Faculty unions, or collective bargaining in higher education. is gaining momentum on major campuses across the nation. It is no longer limited to junior l'olteges as indicated by figures which show that 121 four year schools picked agents since 1969-70, while 147 two vear schools went union. 
Faculty unions have prospered for a number of reasons. but they primaily represent an attempt by !"acuities to gain de facto recognition by their ad­ministrators. 
What the faculties want recognized are the con­tributions they can make to the academic governance of their insitution by virtue o£ their professional stature. They are incensed by administrators who ignore their tenure commtttee recommendations; threaten academicfreedoms by intimid3ting outspoken faculty with tenure denials, black listing, and blocking their participation on committees; require heavier teaching loads without consulting the faculty; and 
withholding scheduled pay raises. 
There ae plenty of arguments against the trend 
towards unionization. Here the primary argument is 
that it is to the detriment of higher education because it 
will reduce faculties from professional bodies, to 
l'ommon blue collar laborers. At the heart of the 
argument is the contention that faculties will become 
clock watchers. and limit their pursuit and 2d­
vancement of knowledge to the hours stipulated in 
their negotiated agreement. 
Another argument claims student and staff unions 
will flllow and that the administrations will be locked 
in negotiations the year around. Still another questions 
the future of academic councils and faculty senates, 
which will no longer be the exclusive mouthpieces of 
Collective bargaining will be discussed Tuesday at 8 
p.m. in the University Club by Dr. Woodley B. Osborne, AAUP national coordinator of collective bargaining. It is not necessary to be a member of the Association to attend. 
Topics of discussion will include: can collective bargaining work in a private university, tenure, and academic freedom. financial advantages, does it ob­viate the need for faculty senates, and what steps are necessary to establish a faculty union. 
the faculty. but merely secondary organs for advice if they contmue to exist at all. 
Obviously there are many problems involved, and unfortunately thereareno solid answers based on long term observations. The trend originated ap­proximately in 1964 when faculty at the City University of New York began to investigate the issu•e, which means there has been hardly enough time to recognize the issue. plan and exe~~·t~ a study of it. 
Because the trend is s:•re; ding rapidly (nearly 20 four year schools have eleclMiS pending right nowl, and because Notre Dame could become another statistic of the trend. the Observer prepared this supplement to acquaint the campus with the basic issues, to stimulate open discussion of them, and to attempt to examine them in context of the Notre Dame faculty­administration situation. 
Staff reporters David Rust and Michael Baum con­tacted approximately 50 faculty members. This figure includes department chairmen, and deans or their assistants. They contacted 20 members of the College of Arts and Letters, and 10 members from each of the other three colleges. It should be kept in mind that the report by Rust and Baum on pages li and '7 is not representative of the entire faculty, but is only a sampling of private opinions. 
The Observer also spoke with members of the American Association of University Professors (AAUPl. and extended an invitation to Provost James 
T. Burtchaell to submit contribution of his views. He declined because he felt it was an issue the faculty must decide themselves. and because he feared a contribution might create the impression that the administration is in opposition to the faculty. 
Local president. Prof. Paul Rathburn, says the Association is not sponsoring the discussion to agitate for a union. but merely to spread information because it is too important an issue for the faculty t~ remain unaware of now. 
In order to further discussion of this issue, the Ob­server welcomes letters to the editor expressing your thoughts an~ comments concerning the meeting tomorrow mght and the information in this sup­plement. 

The Staff  
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barn~tt  Photos: Joe Raymond  
Jim Hunt  
Mike Budd  
E"!tecuti ve Editor:  Don Ruane  

Copyright 1973, The Observer 
Contributors: Prof. Paul Rathburn Prof. Edward Goerner 
Reporters: Mike Baum Dav1d Rust 
1 
1
, 
,1 1 


l 
1 
, ~ 
1 
, ~ 

0 z l 
,



-1 ~ , 
,,' 
,

;Ia , 1ft , , ~ 
,~ 
, 
1 

c )> 1 , 1 
l 
1 
~ 
~ 

1ft ~ 
·~ 



Collective Bargaining: Both Sides 
Presenting the arguments for collective bargaining inieneral is basically stating the'Don Quixote orientation of higher education, while listing the opposition amounts to playing the devil's advocate. 
Faculty in favor of collective bargaining seek recognition, first of their professionalism, and second, of what they claim is their right to make major decisions of academic governance which affect academics and student life where applicable. It seems to be a philosophical argument for n•cognizing human potential, in this ease qualified by years of study. research. and teaching. It is not money oriented, although it plays a major role. 
In theory. faculty are supposed to he df'dicated to the ad­vanef'ment of higher education, and their personal interests are subservient to this ideal. Faculty are obligated to perform in­dependently in the spirit of sdentific inquiry, encourage the pursuit of knowledge; and in the role of sharing academic gover­nance. the faculty should use objective professional judgement and defend free inquiry. 
Rased on their dedication and professional background, faculty daim they have the right to protect their pursuit of knowlege and 

The AAUP Position 
After eight years of concern and 
investigation the American 
Association of University 
Professors <AAUP) endorsed 
collective bargaining as a major 
addi:ional way of reaching its 
goals in higher education. 
The decision came during the 
AAUP's 58th annual meeting in 
New Orleans in May 1972. The vote 
was :J734 to 54. Notre Dame's 
chapter representatives Paul 
Hathburn and Gerald Jones, voted 
for collective bargaining on the 
order of their executive council. 
The decision was a milestone in 
AAUP history because of the 
advesary 1 nature of collective 
bargaining and debate it fostered 
within AAUP ranks. It created two 
fundamental problems conflicting 
with the Association's policies of 
neutrality and doing all it can to 
protect the ideals of academic 
frPedom and higher education. 
According to the official AAUP Council position circulated among all chapters before the annual meeting. " ... the Association since its inception has been a proponent of the principles and standards ''hkh it attempts to impartially apply in individual situations, whereas in collective bargaining the bargaining agent usually stands partisan of the members of the bargaining unit, and the organization with which the agent ia affliated may be perceived in the same way." 
Also, " ...at the institutions where an organizationother than the AAUP chapter has gained exclusive bargaining rights, the administration is expected to deal with the exclusive agpnt as called for in the agreement, and see complaints channeled through grievance procedures which have been ryrovided, thus it may be unreceptive to the Association's inquiries or policies which might be at variance with wh(ji'-~., om­bodied in the bargaining agreement, and the bargaining agent itself may be unwilling to delegate its interests and prerogatives. gained through a bargaining election and the en­suing agreement. to an outside organization." 
The Association could either withdraw from collective bargaining altogether, except fer chapters already actively in­volved. or take the chances of participation. 
Proponents of withdrawal said 
methods. by playing the primary role in decisions of tenure, academic freedom. curriculum, subject matter and faculty status. 
The pro-collective bargaining faculty claim more competence in these decisions than ad­ministrators who are necessarily d~ached from teaching and research; and may be connected with interests other than the ad­vancement of higher education, such as soothing grumpy old alumni by agreeing not to become coeducational too quickly. 
These faculty members are not calling for exclusive decision making power. but recognition of their exclusive qualifications. They believe in shared gover­nance, and would rather achieve such a relationship with ad­ministrators without the ad­versary system of collective bargaining. Unfortunately this isn't always possible, as at Temple University where the ad­ministration dropped 236 part time and 26 full time teaching jobs, postponed scheduled pay raises twice and repeatedly vetoed faculty committee tenure recommendations. Under such t•onditions. the resolution of these issues and others appears to the faculty to make them leg~tl rights and no longer subject to the whims 
of adminstrators. 
the reputation for detachment and continued cooperation from ad­minstrators would be maintained. They also argued that bargaining agents would cooperate if the AAUP didn't come off as a rival, and that the AAUP could protect its goals by offering suggestions and criticisms of agreements from its position outside the negotiations. 
Opponents of withdraw! claimed collective bargaining offered an expanded opportunity to make Association ideas effective and strentghen its position as spokesman for college and university faculty. l<'urthermore. they arg•ted that orgainizations with less experience in higher education and not committed to vital professional principles and practices could not be trusted to preserve them in negotiations; that exclusive agents would ignore the AAUP; that even if the AAUP lost. the concern 
demonstrated would ensure proper concern for the AAUP goals; and that only the AAUP can offer the leadership needed in areas such as academic freedom and tenure. 
After considering these arguments in light of the 1966 policy Statement on Government of Colleges and Universities which outlined authority vested in the faculty as a whole (some argued 

Come to Nassau 
$189 complete 
LEAVE 3/9 Detroit-Nassau RETURN 3/16 Nassau-Detroit 
SEVEN NIGHTS IN FUNKY NASSAU Quad Accomodations in the Famous Montagu Beach· Hotel 
Sign-ups at Union Ticket Office, 2nd Floor Lafortune You Can't beat it! 1:00·3:00 
According to Prof. Anthony 
John of the Southeastern 
Massachusetts University Faculty 
Federation. "If,traditionally, some 
univeristy faculties have played 
particpatory role in the exercise of· 
some of these functions, largely, 
this exercise was a _privilege and 
not a right." 
In addition to recognizing faculty for their inherent value, proponents argue that it eliminates arbitrary administrative decisions. allows administrators more time for administrative duties; develops the community atmosphere by treating all as t•quals and t•equiring participation by a large number of faculty in all of the decisions, par­ticularly those involving tenure and curriculum planning. 
On the other side of the fence the arguments are many, and begin with the idea that the concept of shared academic governance is feasible even in colleges and universities where it appears to have failed. Proponents of this daim that more efforts at effective communication have to be made by both sides. 
There are other complications for academicgovernance. Where would a collective bargaining unit leave students'? Students now participate on many enuncils which make decisions concerning 
that a powerful and wealthy agent might preempt this power and in effect become another ad­ministration for the faculty to deal withl, and the Policy on Hepresentation of Economic and Professional Interests which found collective bargaining bargaining to be a means of promoting AAUP prinicples and to strengthen faculty authority in line with the 1%6 document; and after studying legal issues which might mean the loss of certain government benefits and exemptions and subject the Association to federal and state labor statutes. the AAUP Council made the following proposition October 30, 1971 which was passed in New Orleans six months later: 
"The Association will pursue collective bargaining as a major additional way of realizing the Association's goals in higher Pduration. and will allocate such I'Psources and staff as are necessary for the vigorous selective development of this activity beyond present levels." 
According to the Council's position paper. "a major ad­ditiona I way" meant that collec­tive bargaining is "not to be. pursued to the detriment of basic" programs built up over half a 
(continued on pg. 10) 
curriculum. and presentation methods. Would they be ignored, regretfull dismissed from service, be included in the negotiated agreement. or be invited to par­ticipate in future decisions'? A question also is raised about what sort of student reaction there would be if they were denied participation. 
The academic councils also are placed in jeopardy by collective bargaing because the collective bargaining agent becomes the official mouthpiece of the faculty. Academic councils and other t·ommittees involved in shared goverance must either cease to Pxist or accept their reduction of scope and power, and try to t•ooperate with the agent and the administration. 
Other negative arguments cover a myriad of areas. The one most frequently used is that collective bargaining will reduce faculty from professional teachers to clock watchers. The argument g{)es that faculty will reduce the time for student con­ferences. and limit their preparation and grading time to the hours provided in the contract. If the papers aren't graded, the lecture prepared or the student hasn't arrived by quitting time, then it will have to wait until the next day. 
Helated to professionalism is initiative. which anti-collective bargainers claim will drop when nwrit increases are scrapped in favor·of equal pay in accordance with the agreement. 
When speaking of finances, a broad area is uncovered. First. it 
GSU SKI TRIP 


Sat. Feb. 17 5-10 p.m. 
Rental, Lesson 



Notre Dame Chapter, AAUP presents 
DR. WOODLEY B.OSBORNE 

National Director of Collective Bargaining, AAUP 
''COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND THE AAUP'' 
What are the financial advantages? What about tenure and academic freedom? What steps preceed the formation of a faculty union ? 



Tues. Jan. 30, 8 p.m. University Club 
Refreshments Served Everyone Welcome 
is quite expensive to maintain a 
bargaining unit. which is done 
mainly with high dues. Next the 
probability of occasional if not 
frt•quent raises for faculty require 
more money which could result in 
an increase in student fees or 
cutbacks in academic areas. 
Before there can be cutbacks, money must be budgeted for amdemic programs. Who will decide how much academics get, and to go one step further. who will dPcide whether liberal arts or science gets more. before the del'ision comes down to a depart­nwntal level'? 
Students. according to stereotypes, have enough com­plaints about money. Some who protPst collective bargaining fear that fee increases coupled with a rl'duction of assistance from their professors will result in counter pressure groups,possibly a student union. Some have extended this furth£>r to involve staff unions. The overwlwlming fear is that the administration will be locked in twgotiations year round as each 
tmwn ratses 1ts gripes. 
Hairstyling by 



BARON 

YOUR STYLE OR MINE 
2732 S. Mich. 291-0143 
Monday, January 29, 1973 the observer 7 

t·erned. simply because any union salary now is about $16,000 a year, this would be a last resort and grown tired of the seemingly en-bargaining agreement is not likely so that a kindergarten teacher who things would have to be in a dless meeting where faculty to allow for rewards based on merit has been on the job seven or eight desparate situation for this to be opinions are sought, received, and After all. a university is a years gets more a year than I do. 
justified. then disregarded. meritocracy. isn't it. or is that the I'm not arguing that they shouldn't In addition. I'm becoming in­nwdieval view? Finally. if we ever but it's a product of union power. creasingly concerned about the do move toward collective And I don't think that the schools deteriorating compensation levels bargaining on matters that do not have been improved by the unions. at Notre Dame. Salary in­impinge on student-teacher The tendency is for the union to be crements--including the expanded rt'lationships--here I am thinking interested in paying and working level of fringe-benefits--did not of retirement. insurance. and conditions and so on: very normal, keep up with the rate of inflation tenure policy as well as policies on but that's putting its own interests last year. There is every in­resource priorities and curriculum above that of the school's. Mv own dication that salary increments dt•velopment--I would insist that it experience is that the teachers in will be short of the rise in prices lw the AAUP. for it speaks for the Nl'W York have a professional again this year. If the University academic-values to which I attitude that is worse than it used is counting on a "soft" labor susbscribe. The university sits on to be. When I was a teacher from market for academics to maintain sacred ground. I don't want it 1 \J.t!l-1 !!57 we really did work our correct academic excellence, soiled by union jackboots, no together and we stayed after they are misled. The labor market matter how much unions have school to coach or assist students. Frank Fahey. (AL): During the is firming up and more un­eontributed to the quality of life in When the principal asked us we all '{\O's university administration fortunately. there is always a good oth<'r areas. sort of pitched in. That's they way gave faculties increased salaries, market for your best people. 
we do here--if anybody asks me to fringe benefits, and decision­Maybe unionization would get this give a lecture. say the one I'm Jill Whitney. (AL): am very making powers. It seemed a true across. giving tomorrow night. I'll give it. familiar with the actual or partnership had been formed. It's part of the job. Under the proposed nature of faculty unions. However. with the advent of the union there's a big fat book that My opposition to them is partly a '70's and deficit budgets, ad­spells out what you're supposed to matter of principle; I believe truth ministrators economized by do. You're not supposed to keep should be spoken only in the reducing the faculty gains of the records. you're not supposed to do context of love and never out of the '60's in often times a unilateral this. do that. and. when the prin­power of domination or the bit­fashion. The faculty ,angeredmore 
-

l'ipal asks you to help him with a terness of frustration. Personally, at the way decisions were made, problem. like write out the grades my apolitical attitude is rooted in themselves unable to cope in­of the students for college, we the confidence that God works all dividually with administrative won't do that. They call a meeting things for good to those who love fiat. It appears inevitable then and there's a union delegate and so Him (Romans 8: 28l. I believe that collective action is the most on. I'm really not sure that the the· principle of unions does efficient way for faculties to $!6,000 teacher of today is doing violence to the professional and achieve a more effective voice in anv better--or indeed, as well--as I liberal nature of the university and ~he operation of universities and did when I used to get $2,500. If undercuts the climate of trust particularly, in those areas which there were to be ways to increase which should sustain the com­relate directly to the conditions of 
\\'altc>r G. Miller. (S): I think that salaries without destroying that munity of scholars in a Christian work. In many ways, Notre Dame ev<'ntually we will see the faculty sense. which I think is a very university such as Notre Dame. It follows the above pattern. nionized in the next twenty years. precious one. of "I like my job," I generates bitterness by appealing 
But I plan to retire before then, and m'ight support it. I'm not on an to force where rational persuasion 
national meeting to pursue it I would hope that it wouldn't come assembly line. I think that an is called for. and it pretends to (unionization) more definitelyto b<' here at Notre Dame. I think 
assembly line worker whose job is apply objective standards in than in the past. It is, however, not 
that th_• arrangem<'nt we have now dull and depressing really needs a matters <such as the selection and the main concern of the AAUP. 
is quite satisfactory. <This in­union. I'm not so sure about unions evaluation of faculty) where there "For my estimate, so far it has for professional people. I don't can be no objective measures; the been of more importance in smaH think doctors need one. for in­maintenance of a vital faculty schools. I think that there are stance. They seem to be doing well requires from the administration a schools where it is the only feasible 
enough. The question of a union at combination of reason and in­mechanism for establishing 
Notre Dame? I really don't know. tuitive judgment which can be relations between the faculty and There is no union as such; there is reduced to no "fair" formula. administration. the AAUP, a professional "It is not the structure that I 
organization. I wouldn't be a would most prefer to see in a leader in such a movement. I university, but in some places it is really don't have any grievances. the only one possible.
Since I've come here nobody has ··At the present time I would ever made any objections to what oppose it <at NO> I have mixed I ·ve taught. I've had utter freedom emotions. The most significantin the classroom. I think the thing in my mind is the character 
working conditions are excellent. I Doering. ( AL): of the relationship between the
/3c>rnard

certainly believe that a faculty at faculty and administration in the
Academia has traditionally found

Notre Dame gets more clerical the idea of a teachers' union university. If the relationship assistance. more reproducing between the faculty and ad­
somewhat abhorrent, but. the materials. and so on. than any movement for the unionization of ministration becomes not one of 
other place I've been. So I think a mutual cooperation but one of
professors has been growing

lot of the grievances that might recently and quite a number of antagonism, then one has to think Kenneth Galbraith's book--I can't lead one to form a union are campuses now have their unions. of unionization a1< a possible recall th<' title of the book--spoke of nonexistant here. The AAUP has always worked to solution for organizing the faculty. the concept of "countervailing protect the rights of professors, but "Basically I wouldn't like the 
pow<'r." lie argued that when any this organization has no power idea of belonging to a union, but it part of th economy grows very beyond that of persuasion. The lilY be necessary." strong. it almost automatically present crisis ·of the overabun­{)~~;X.X;~~~~
James A. Doubleday, (AL):
brt>eds s1 mP kind of power to dance of professors puts very 
check it. That is. for example, think that a faculty union is an much power in the hands of the Peter T. Brady, Business Ad­excellent idea. The opposition to it Ill in istration: I am not
when the producing corporations administration. and considering
from the faculty side seems to be automatically opposed to for­
got monopoly power. then things recent developments a union may
~hose mation faculty union

like the supermarkets rose to from who believe that the become a necessity. If one is of a or to 
relation between faculty and ad­collective bargaining. In prin­
challenge them. so even though organizaed at NO, I intend to 
ministration is not that of em­ciple. I want to say that I'm not in
vou had only a few producers of support it.
ployee and employer, but that of 
favor of the idea of collective~·ornflakes. ihe supermarkets, by equal partners in decisiun-making­bargaining until such time as itthreatening to make their own -each partner being granted his would be clear what efforts a unionbrands. fought back. As far as special area of competence. That make on behalf of the faculty,unions·go. I think that in America position may be a beautiful dream, precisely how it would proceed orthe strongest unions grew under but it has no relation to reality at expect to proceed in engaging in1he most oppressive con­Notre Dame. The administration collective bargaining. I think thatditions .... that is. the coal miners, 
on all the present manner of deter­

who really had very poor wages acts unilaterally major decisions: at times, it has not even ming faculty compensation is notand very poor conditions. and the good. There ':ioes not exist. so farsteelworkers. who I think put in Louis L. Hasley. (AL): In the case accepted the provisions for con­
In am aware. com­

ten-hour days at a dollar a day. of the state institution, I think an sultation that it itself set up. as I a faculty 
active union to fact. the faculty cannot be an equal pPnsation schedule: the manner in
That oppression bred the strong bargain with the 
partner in decision-making, for the which salaries are determinedunions in those fields, and so the (•mployer is a desirable thing. I faculty is not told enough of the leaves a great deal of unanswered llnited Mineworkers and the think the situation is rather dif­actual financial position of the questions in the minds of many ofsteelworkers and the autoworkers ferent in a private institution University to judge intelligently the faculty as to how such are very powerful unions. Now because being private is in itself a whether a particular decision is determinations are made. anti itcollege professors are simply not thing that suggests it has more financially possible. The present would be my impression that thethat oppressed. The teaching load control over what goes on. Now relation of the faculty member existing method of compensatinghas never been terribly bur­that doesn't mean that the faculty seeking a raise or tenure to the the faculty is not necessarily andensome. And even when salaries shouldn't have some form of Tom Swartz. (AL): Currently, few
Administration is that of a single, equitable method of compensation. 
were not very high, back 25 or 30 pressure. of being heard, to see of us really know the answers to
relatively powerless individual to a Itis for that reason that I would be years ago. there was not a great that it is not a one-sided operation. 
the hard questions surrounding

movement for unions. The only It should make use of things like monolithic. powerful, and an­interested in pursuing the 
faculty unionization. What we do

tagonistic force. The Ad­possibility of organization of aunion of teachers that I know at all the AAUP. and should be very know is our position and influence bargaining union for faculty.
well is at Harlem. where I used to active in doing this. I think, in this ministration does not even con­in a non-unionized environment. If
sider it necessary to explain to the
be a teacher for nine years, and I institution. we have been active in the act of forming a union at Notre
faculty member of his department ~~J·U­
must say that I don't think the the AAUP. and it has brought Dame would provide us with
why a raise or tenure is refused. a 
results have been altogether too about immensely improved con­more direct involvement in the Dr. Edgar Morris, (Asst. Prof.
The only way this unpleasant, anti­
happy. That is. there has been a ditions for the faculty. I don't think Aero & Mch. Eng.)
of can decision making process dealingeducational state affairs

tremendous increase in the pay of it is a good thing to make an with the University's academic "I don't have a strong opinion at
change is if facuUy members unite
public school teachers in New outright confrontation where it this time."
life. I'd be for it. I guess I'veand bargain collectively. 

York. and I think their maximum could result in a strike. Certainly 
... The Collective Bargaining Issue 









Collective Bargaining: MSU Story 
As members of the Michigan State University faculty returned last fall from summer semesters Plsewhere. vacations and jobs which supplemented tht•ir five figure salaries, theyfaced the most intense part of a campaign to choose either a collective bargaining agent or no agent to represent them before the Spartan administrators. 
The collective bargaining issue had been brewing for more than a year and was finally decided by a two day l'IPction in mid-October. In January 1972 a report was ~ivt'n to faculty members which explained the com­plications. myths and possible benefits of collective bargaining. It took the Ad Hoc University Committee on ( 'ollective Bargaining a full year to prepare it. 
Two months later the MSU Faculty Associates < MSUFA l. an affiliate of the Michigan Education Association which negotiates faculty problems from kindt•rgarten through high school, petitioned the 1\lichigan Employment Relations Commission <1\II<:HCl for an election. 
H~· 1\lay. the MSUFA and the local American Association of University Professors <AAUPl were l'l'rtified as elegible agents by the commission. llowl'ver. the MSUFA. in consultation with the MSU arlministration. was allowed to define the bargaining 
-
unit composition because it had presented the primary pPtition to the MERC. It consisted of signatures from :10 per cent of the eligible faculty. Subsequent pl'titioners needed only 10 per cent. The AAUP par­ticipated in the discussion. but it could not block any decisions. 
Although the AAUP could not block, the final bargaining unit defined by their rival differed only in that the AAUP's model included department chairmen who they considered colleagues, rather than ad­ministrators. and functional units within the univer­sity. 
The MSUFA unit included full time teaching and research faculty from professor through specialist, and all ranks half time for three or more consecutive terms: nonacademic staff at non-supervisory levels: librarians. non-supervisory directors of academic programs. artists in residence, counselors and academic advisors: and excluded groups such as l'Xtension personnel who hold no rank in academic units such as associate. assistant, and directors of ;1dministrative units: assistant, associate and full deans: research associates: po~t-doctoral fellows­divisional librarians and others. 
The Report 

About Sept. 27 the ad hoc report was distributed to department chairmen. and positions of the AAUP and 1\ISUFA on academic governance and grievance prps_~dures <two of the fiv(' major issue~ l'ampaign; th(' others are salaries, professionalism and pros and cons of collective bargaining) appeared in the State N<>WS. 
(;pnerally. the report contained these comments: 
I l ( 'ollective bargaining presents no inevitable harm to higher education. and that union members will determine how well it works. It cites the high prof('ssional image of the AMA as an example of the results of membership participation. 
~~ Students might form counter pressure groups if student fees are raised to meet salary faculty raises n•sulting from collective bargaining netotiations. 
:l l Unionized faculty might have more power to deal with the legislature than at present, but it is not automatic because of other groups competing for funds and because unionization might add resentment to the currently none to favorable public opinion towards higher Pducation. 
4 l 1\!Prit increases could be written into contracts thus avoiding any lack of initiative fostered by the l'limination of merit increases in favor of equal salary sl'a IPs across the board. 
:; 1 Tlw powprs of academic governance would have to lw l'learlv defined. and academic councils would l'itlwr cease to exist or redefine their position in the structure of academic governance. 
ti I <; riPvances would probably be handled informally ;1 t first. in the case of collective bargaining, and then formally and in good faith through a neutral arbitrator. 
Tlw AA UP. through its direct mailing and bulletin hoard t•ampaign. said collective bargaining would improve present acc;~,Liemic governance structures by l'Stablishing authority within a contractual agreement. 

If l'lected agent. the AAUP said it would establish budget priorities. increase faculty compensation by increasing available funds and using them effectively, and modify the grievance procedure as the faculty dt•sires. 
The l\lSUf<'A. claiming academic governance is advisory in nature by definition. said it does not adequately deal with l'conomic matters, and that the association would negotiate matters both outside the scope of governance and not satisfactorily resolved by governance structures. Regarding greivances, the association said that if the present structure is rejected. the negotiated one should be similar to other unionized universities to protect and define contract language. 
1-:arly in the semester some observers predicted the no agent optior. would win. and that faculty would vote for it simply to end the issue. Attendance at various forums was disappointing, and one faculty leader attributed the apathy to a feeling of anomie and the feeling by individuals that they have no power of in­
''Change IS• inevitable. It is only through collective bargaining that we can meet the changes that are occuring." "No Agent" tallied 60 percent of the votes 

cast by 84 percent of the elligible faculty. 

.-
Focrdty lll<'etings on collective bargaining at MSU '''<'r<' not well at­tPnriPrl and the issue didn't orousp much tension. 
-+ 
A collage of clippings from til<' MSU. student paper. 

fluence when it comes to elections. 
The one meeting that was successful was held the first week of October and drew nearly 200 persons. It featured the national AAUP president, the local president-elect of the MSUF A and a spokesman against collective bargaining. They agreed that academic governance, greivance procedures and salaries were the top issues, but differed in their ap­proaches. 
Mary Tompkins and Walter Adams, of the MSUFA and AAUP respectively, agreed that unionization would give more negotiating power. Tompkins said, "Change is inevitable. It is only through collective bargaining that we can meet the changes that are occuring." 
Adams, an MSU economist, commented, "We live in an era of institutional bigness. The in­dividual has lost his voice and must join collectively to eontrol his destiny." 
f<:conomics professor Thomas Moore argued, "This separation of employee-employer would lead to a ehange in University \'alues. The effect of salary leveling is to forget the merit system and eventually level the quality of this University." 
The campaign was well conducted with only two near eases of attacking one another's tactics, according to State News accounts. On October 9 it was reported that the Committee of Concerned Faculty (CCF) eriticized a MSUFA flier which said, "On Oct. 23, 24 you will choose a professional negotiations agent." 
The CCF said the purpose of the vote is to choose for or against collective bargaining, not who the agent will he. Tompkins replied by calling the criticism "a senseless case of nitpicking." The CCF opposed collective bargaining. 
However. it was possible to chose both collective bargaining and an agent in the election. A simple majority of those voting was all that was needed for \'ictory. If either the MSUFA or AAUP won, it would be a v"ote for collective bargaining and the particular agent. If a simple majority was not pooled by any option. the top two would run off. 
The other criticism came Oct. 23, the first day of the l'lection. and stemmed from an open lette.r to MSU President Clifton, R. Wharton on Oct. 19 from the CCF. The open letter concluded that collective bargaining was not the answer to getting increased consideration for views expressed by the Faculty Affairs and Faculty Compensation Committee <FAFCCl. The answer, according to the CCF. was in Wharton's hands, who must make his implicit confidence in the faculty ex­plicit. . 
This drew an equally large (36.75 column inches) open letter to the faculty from the AAUP. which said the faculty shouldn't depend on anyone's patronage, and should have equal bargaining capability with the administration. 

Viewpoints and Rebuttal 

A few days before the election began three viewpoints appeared on the editorial pages of the State N<>ws . The opposition. written by former local AAUP president Harold Hart. said collective bargaining makes the administration an adversary, fosters mediocrity by enticing faculty to jump at offers which break local union payscales, that higher salaries would 
he met by higher tuition or drawing from academic 
budgets. and that the described bargaining unit ex­
dudes many top faculty. 
The AAUP argument. made by executive council nwmber Sigmund Nosow. asked for evidence that l'ollective bargaining produces mediocrity and that salaries will be negotiated to the detriment of Pducational needs. He said the AAUP was very democratic and would be a strong agent. Nosow concluded that the problem is not what the faculty and administration disagree over, but what is imposed on the University by the larger community. 
Christopher Sower, a sociologist, favored the MSUFA and claimed the AAUP was a "Do nothing organization." which wouldn't defend outspoken young faculty and their ideas which go beyond traditional and outmoded methods and ideas. He said the faculty eould control the MSUFA. while it cannot control the department chairman and school directors el~cted by organized power blocks which are not eager to relinquish their power. _ 
On Oct. 20 Provost John Cantlon's comments in an Parly October newsletter were answered bythe AAUP and MSUFA by claiming the opposite or saying there is no evidence to support Cantlon's statements. 
Cantlon wrote that collective bargaining wouiC: lead to uniformity and rigidity of the faculty, that academic freedom would be hurt because faculty would have to give up their role in a wide range of decision making processes. that efforts to involve students in academic governance would be undone and that an unnecessary second grievance procedure would have to be added. 
In the weekly newsletter before the vote, President Wharton came out firmly against collective bargaining, fearing "Serious · dPterioration" of academic relationships. "Collective bargaining, I am afraid, would replace this mutually developed and supported association with an im­personal and adversary relationship," Wharton wrote. 
Wharton said his major fear is the effect on faculty management function. which includes determining eontent and presentation of subject matter, and par­ticipation on the academic council and senate. He said this imput is needed by the administration. 
As the election approached each group prc•emed their feathers for last minute statements of their f1Ualifications. Several large ads appeared in the State N<'\\'s including a full page display listing nearly 360 faculty who would vote "no agent," and an 84 c:>lumn inch rectange empty except for the following co1 1ment \\'hich was centered. "We are still concerned! Tday is the last day -vote no agent' The Committee of Con­eerned Faculty:" and a 42 column inch ad by the AAllP. 
"No agent" tallied 60 percent of the votes cast by 84 percent of the eligible faculty. MSUFA nailed down 21 Jll.'rcent and the AAUP garnered 14 percent. The other five percent was locked up in challenge votes. Another l'lection cannot he held for a year according to state 
Ia\\'. 
Wharton said the vote was an expression of con­fidence in the governance system, but that the iiBvotes for an agent indicated unresolved problems. FAFCC ehairman Fred Williams said the vote indicates the present system is workable, but the administration shouldn't construe the vote as one of confidence. 
The AAUP said it would eontinl!e to protect academic freedom and improve academic gover­nance. but the MSUFA said it would be back next year. In the meantime it will work to convince ~e faculty that l'ollective bargaining is best for MSl . 




Collective Bargaining: Inevitable? 
b_v Paul Rathburn 

Like the Fall of Rome. the reform of the liturgy, and the dawning of higher education for women, professoriRI collective bargaining may turn out to be one of those "historical inevitabilities" against which, in tlw latter day. it is quite useless to struggle. Under tlw auspices. presumably, of the A.A.U.P., the N.E.A., ;md the A.F.T.. the unionization of college and university faculties may move as rapidly in the 70's as did the organization of primary and secondary teachers in the 60's. Once the movement began. it took the N.E.A. and the A.F.T. less than nine years to unionize iO percent of America's schoolteachers. 
t~uite obviously such predictions are premature. But the facts of the faculty union movement are dramatic and startling. One hundred twenty-one four-year and 147two-year campuses have been organized since 1969­\\lill. Weeks after the national A.A.U.P. 's historic endorsement of collective bargaining last April in New Orleans. five local A.A.U .P. Chapters were elected as negotiating representatives for their faculties. Today, less than one year after that decision, A.A.U.P. local chapters have been elected as bargaining agents at 18 campuses including among them: St. Johns Univer­sity, Rutgers. Delaware, Rhode Island University, and Wayne State. Elections are pending at the Universities of Tllinois. Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, Syracuse. Wisconsin, Washington, and dozens other. The Wall Street Journal· Pstimated· recently that Close to 100.000 professors and teaching assistants are already represented by collective bargaining agents. As one administrator put it recently, the "spectre that has been haunting higher education--the spectre of collective bargaining--is now a living presence." 
Some. but not all of the reasons for this remarkable 
development are obvious. Professors are not immune 
to such considerations as salaries and economic fringe 
lwnefits. An example is the University of Hawaii 
\\'hich was unionized only after its faculty were denied 
salary increases for two consecutive years. For four 
consecutive years the national A.A.U.P.'s Report on 
th<> Economic Status of the Profession has reported 
that the change in the status of the profession "is worse 
than it was a year ago." 
According to Economist Peter 0. Steiner "The real 
(constant dollar) value of the average faculty salary 
has dipped to slightly less than it was three years ago, 
and the trend toward greater reduction in the years 
ahead is unmistakeable." The record on this count, at 
least. is very clear: sal~Iries and frLge benefits jump 
sharply upward on campuses where collective 
bargaining prevails. Where there is no faculty union, the professor's purchasing power has continued to Prode. 
Others have turned to collective bargaining in self­defense. in the face of rising teaching loads, unreasonable curtailment of faculty size, and in some places the freezing or even abolishing of tenure. But the most important issues, by far, have not been rdated either to money or to tenure. From the beginning the A.A.U.P. ·has stressed that it does not consider collective bargaining an end in itself. The Association has stressed that its central purpose in endorsing collective bargaining is to gain recognition bv university administrators of A.A.U.P. principles of academic freedom and tenure, of faculty participation in university governance. and shared authority in the allocation of resources. The precise wording of the Association's original endorcement illustrates the point: "The A.A.U.P. will puruse collective bargaining as a major additional way of realizing the Association's goals in higher education." 

Ht-re at Notre Dame the A.A.U.P. Chapter has taken no stand on collective bargaining. Indeed, until now there has been no public discussion of the many issues involved. No one here. to my knowledge, forsees any headlong rush in the direction of the union movement. In fact. anyone familiar with faculty deliberations. debates. and decision-making processes will smile at the idea of any university faculty rushing headlong as a group in any single direction. Nonetheless. the Notre Dame Chapter has expressed concern on several oc­easions over what seems to be the decreasing impact of faculty bodies upon the internal operation of the \Tniversity. Most notable in this regard was the report Pntitled The Role of Faculty in University Governance. 
This statement was distributed to the entire faculty as well as to the Administration, the officers of the Alumni Association, and to the Board of Trustees. It read in part: 
"In fact, the influence of such faculty bodies upon university policy seems to be decreasing. There is an increased tendency to make important university policy in the academic realm by administrative proclamation.'' The report. as a whole, deserves to be read. It cites five specific situations by way of concrete illustration. Any attempt to sum up these situations here could only result in distortion and would be redundant in any event. It should be noted, however, that the Chapter has. as yet. received no substantive reply to the report. 
Let me repeat. The Notre Dame Chapter is not 
seeking to organize the faculty. Our concern rather is 
to help the faculty to remain well informed. Notre 
Dame may well be precisely the kind of institution in 
which collective bargaining will prove to be un­
necessary. Surely there is here a long and enviable 
tradition of academic freedom. Perhaps we may add 
to this in the future an increasing mutuality of un­
derstanding concerning the proper role of the faculty in 
university governance. Collective bargaining at Notre 
Dame may not be an "historical inevitability." But 
that is a decision which only the faculty, and the 
faculty as a whole, must make. 
The. Observer is to be congratulated on the 
publication of this special supplement precisely 
because the complex issues surrounding collective 
bargaining must be discussed fully and openly. For 
the same reason. the Notre Dame Chapter of A.A.U.P. 
is sponsoring an evening with Dr. Woodley B. Osborne, 
National Director of Collective Bargaining for the 
A.A.U .P. The entire faculty, is, of course, invited. 
.A. 




(continued from pg. 5) 
financial bases, and in terms of long-range, multi-generational perspectives. Each scholar is easily inclined to be uninterested in both practical matters and even in the whole body of learning much of which lies outside his ken. But surely those defects can ·be overcome by a wise choice of basic institutions, including that of a strong presiding officer, expected· nnd empowered to lead. 
On the other hand, the unionizing hourgeois university has some fatal naws. lt tends to produce an adversary relationship bet­wt.>en the capitalists <trustees and :tdministratorsl and hirelings 
((acultv> that is seldom in the best interest of the student body and it tends to warp and undermine the vocation of the scholar. 
Concerned essentially with in­crt'asing wages and easing working conditions, faculty unions :tr£' as little likely as other unions to show a powerful concern for the l'conomic consequences of their at'ls on the consumer <the student> or the t'mployer Cthe university as Iega I corpralionl. This is no small mattf.'r when private universities ar<> in financial straits, are often in danger of bankruptcy, and have pushC'd tuition charges to a level that keeps out whole segments of llw population and leaves many sludt•nts with heavy debts. 

The members of a university that was a self-governing com­munity of scholars could not help lakliH~ responsibility for decisions in~:. h matters. That is to say, the mPmhers of a faculty in such a uni 1 , ·rsity would find it necessary to ad like mature and full human beings who take on their shoulders the burdens of life iri a community and who face and weigh the con­sequences of their acts. The members of a faculty labor union, on the other hand, place them­selves in an organizational framework in which the stunted, small-souled and alienated per­ceptions of bourgeois egoism play the leading role. Surely someone will say that in a university that is a self-governing eommunity of scholars, the faculty might find it necessary to take on all sorts of additional burdens including even major salary reductions under hard cir­cumstances. No doubt they would. And no doubt someone is thinking ol' the lure of a twenty-five percent salary increase dangled before the t'yes of the faculty in the latest AAUP flyer on collective bargaining. 
But it is at precisely this point that the scholar most needs to n•flect on his choice of vocation. Which of you is so witless that he 



The AAUP Position 
(continued from pg. 4) 
century" and now in great demand: but in the words of the AAlJP constitution. "to increase the usefulness and advance the :-;tandards. ideals, and welfare of the profession." 

H~· "vigorous selective development" the Council said that national staff members will meet with chapter officers to make various assessments before national staff. time and assistance is granted. Among the assessments are: can collective bargaining at the particular in­stitution achieve desired and desirable objectives, local resources of money and man­power. com position of the proposed bargaing unit, confidence of the members in the unit, and the opposition's strength. 
The other ambiguous phrase, "beyond present levels," means that up to an additional $100,000 might be budgeted for the calender ~·car 1972. During the 1971 ealender year $120,000 was used, of which approximately one half Wl'nt into developing policy, disseminating information and giving advice. This money came from a $\.74 million budget which is projected to reach as high as $1.85 million this year. Although this projection is based on a request that members pay 20 percent beyond their usual dues, the Council expects the collective 
bnrgaining  investment  to  be  
substantially  more  than  in  the  
past.  
In  reaching  their  20  to  H  

decision. the Council felt it was protecting AAUP principles, and noted that contracts have been made which "preclude the possibility of a hearing on a sub­stantive issue of academic freedom. allow for decisions of tenure without provision for faculty participation. and do not grant any review of an ad­ministrative decision not to reappoint a nontenured teacher." 
The Council also felt the proposition would lead to a 
could not easily have found a way to gain from two to ten times his present income? Which of you is so witless as not to have been able to find a line of work that would pay you. a fuU professor, at least double the <legall salary of a New York cop. Which of you is so witless as not to have known he was not choosing opuleoce when he l'hose the life of a scholar? And which of you is so witless as to have no inkling of why the choice was as it was? If there is someone as witless as that. he is too dull to presume to teach anything. 
The modest income of scholars is product of two things. Most serious and pure scholarship is not an activity that is productive in any material sense, t'Xcept ac­l'identally and as a by-product as it wt're. The mass of men who deal in material wealth are naturally inclined to suppose that man lives by bread alone. to value lightly the scholar's words and truths and so pay little for them. He cannot help wondering. since he is in no good position to judge, whether the scholar's ''truths" are not just so much high-sounding verbal flummery designed to hoodwink him out of his money. And he is not always wrong in that suspicion. 
The second reason for scholar's modest incomes is deeper and more central. At the bottom of our mosf ancient scholarly traditions, both pagan and Christian.. is a perception that. however hard he mav have to work for them, the seh.olars' truths are not ultimately his own in the most important respect but are graces, in­trinsically public, intrinsically communicable. intrinsically given. At the bottom of our most ancient scholarly traditions, both pagan anfl('hristian. is a perception that eaeh of our truths is but a flashing speck reJecting the adamantine brilliance of an eternal Truth, the ground and source of our truths poor light. In that tradition, the ~cholar is a kind of priest, a nwdiator between God, under the divine name of truth. and man. In that tradition the scholar who takes on the awesome risk of such a vocation trembles lest he betray his priesthood, lest he seem to say that it is by bread alone that man lives; he trembles lest the non­scholar think that the words that come forth from the mouth of God even by the circuitous route of the scholar's inquiry are for sale, are no better than bread. In that tradition the scholar refuses to lake any more for his living than he really needs for fear that the real teaching of his life is that riches are better than a truth which is peddled to the highest bidder. for fear that some poor man may be denied a truth he 
specialized model of collective bargaining needed by higher education. because its goals are different from those of blue collar labor. 
Finally. the Council felt more chapters would become agents. The first AAUP chapter to become a bargaining unit was at Bellview Area College in Illinois in 1967. The largest chapter agent represents the three campus Rutgers University in New Jersey. There are now 18 chapters acting as bargaining agents. 
But there have been setbacks too. In 1969 the AAUP lost three of six New Jersey state colleges, the State University of New York in 1970 and 14 Pennsylvania state colleges in 1971 all to the National I<:duca tion Association; and narrowly lost to the no agent option at the University of Detroit and I<'ordham. 
However. now that the AAUP has taken a clear position, and has pledged staff and money to the cause. the national leaders feel more victories are in the future. 
ought to know. And the scholar in 
that tradition finally accepted his 
sometimes narrow finances when 
sm.art muffler-shop kings and 
mouthwash peddlers lived off the 
fat of the land because he knew 
that. in our strange world where 
hard choices are the rule, the joy of 
:1 single great truth known and 
shared. even if only imj>erfect)y, 
was a joy richer than riches, 
because he knew that even only the 
memory of such a joy was worth 
more than the whole stock market, 
because he knew that he had had a 
glimpse. if only sideways and for a 
moment <like those shooting stars 
one sees on a summer's night out of 
the corner of the eye and that are 
gone before one can look at them 
straight onl, of the divine Truth 
itself. 
Of course there is another 
l'onception of the truth that em­
phasizes the private dimension of 
every truth. that emphasizes the 
power and material value of 
truths. And there is a truth to such 
a view. It ought not be denied. It 
ought not be hidden. No more than 
the truth of the ethic of bourgeois 
individualism ought to be denied or 
hidden. But those truths are in 
little danger of being hidden or 
denied today. There are the 
dominant truths. 
What is in danger of being denied or hidden today is thnt other, ancient tradition. And if we do not live by that tradition, who will? We who constitute a university that daims to be Christian. we who teach under the patronage of a woman who bore her son in a stable without complaint, we who are heirs and successors of Sorin and his little band who came to the wilderness and lived in Jog shacks to share the truths they knew. Make no mistake: the in­dividualist's reply, that anyone enn do that by himself if he wants to with the proceeds of his 25 per cent higher. unionized salary, is not to the point. The tradition I speak of requires a communal, a public manifestation, an organized, social form 
Notre Dame stands between those two worlds. She is moving toward the bourgeois corporate form of ed-bus. She is moving tentatively but she is sampling the delights of the bourgeois world. No one who is familiar with the significance of names and name ehanges will fail to notice the importance of the development in the Main Building of a titulary structure largely based on the bourgeois business corporation. Nor will he fail to notice vast organizational changes of a similar sort in recent decades, l'hanges that the new titulary structure expresses quite well No one who is familiar with the great 
increase in discussion of collective 
bar~aining among faculty 
members can fail to see a 
significant change in ·spirit and 
perception. 
I mention the administration 
first because unionization of the 
faculty is not wholly a matter of 
faculty decision. Unless the 
masters of our corporate capital find the vision and the courage to ht'lp us· come into a modern and layman's version of the best of Sorin's heritage of generosity of ~pirit. great heartedness. mature I oughness and responsibility, Notre Dame will slide, perhaps i\gainst the wills of most of us, into the stunted mold of ed-bus. A self­governing community of scholars ill Notre Dame will require a substantial restructuring of our formal . legal institutions as well. 
~BOAC's EUROPE! 
18 Days, May 21-June 8 
only $180.00, Round Trip 

CHICAGO-LONDON-CHICAGO Sign-ups at Travel Bureau Sign-up Deadline: FEB. 2 
·----·----------·--------l 
FREE FLYING LESS NS 
PLUS $9,800 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR 
And that's only the start of your career as 
a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial flying career .•.. or impressive executive credentials to go with the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You'll earn from $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits including 30 days paid vacation annually, free world·wide air travel, medical care and much more. If you're between 201/z and 261/2, a senior or graduate student, you may qualify. 
United States Air Foree 
109 E. LaSalle St. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46601 Phone: 233-4747 




PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS FOR WEEK OF FEBRUARY 1 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up ached· ules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Interview times must be selected and signed for in person, Hours are B:OO a.m. to 5:00 p.m. each day, except Friday. The Placement Manual gives additional informa­tion regarding interviews and procedures. 
FEB. 1 American Air Filter Co., Inc. BS in M.E., E,E., Ch,E,, C.E., M.E.I.O, Corps of Engineers, Chicago District. BS, MS in C.E. BS in M.E. BBA in Acct. duPont Glore Forgan Inc,
= MBA with Finance background,
= Federal Highway Administration, BS, MS in C.E. NCR. (National Cash Register Co.) B,M,D in E.E. and M.E.
i
FEB. 2 The Firat National Bank of Chicago. 
B. in Lib. Arts, Lybrand, Ross Bros, &Montgomery. BBA in Acct. MBA. with Acct. background. 

Employ::t~::;;::;~o~;rp:~~:::~iv;:~er:~a::::~~e.Summer. 
=II 5 Room 222, Administration Bldg. 
I ~ 
1
1/18/73 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIUHIII..mH•WIIIIIIIIU···----II'MW..HIIIIWURIHIII·I· 

A~ for the faculty, there is, it 
~N.'ms to me. still enough memory 
of and nostalgia for dashed and 
frozen youthful hopes among us to 
take another direction. 

Yl•l who will be our Sorin? Fr. 
lll•sburgh. for all his having 
learned the nat and spiritless 
jargon or the captains of education 
in the Rockefeller and Carnegie 
Corporations. has stiJJ in . his 
person. his speech, his life enough 
of Sorin's generosity of spirit to 
m:1ke yet one more great turn in 
his life. to come back out or Egypt, 
to become one of us again, a 

scholar. to help us march together 
through our inner wilderness 
1much more dirticult than the 
outer wilderness Sorin facedl. 

Nothin~ less will justify his oft­
expressed respect for the 
s:1crifices they made who lie in the 
eemetery beyond the lakes. 
--...­


Student Union offers Nassau trip 
beautiful weather for tpe island However. I will hazard a guess that

h.v Bob Quackenbush hopeful that a sizable portion of the suggests renting a motor-bike tc ND-SMC eommunity will take l'xplore Nassau. or hopping a mail 
vacation. Kearse answered, "The there will be snow in South Bend

Staff Reporter 
only thing you can predict about and a tropical paradise inadvantage of this opportunity. He boat to the other islands of the 

··If you want to preserve and the weather is its unpredictability. Nassau.
notes. "We had 20 definites the Bahamas. 
deepen your Florida tan or have first day tickets went on sale, with Nassau offers numerous en­!IIIHIIIWIIIIIIIIIIUHNJJIMIIHIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIHIIHtiHIIIIHIHUIIIII. 
the opportunity to obtain a tan of the trip yet a month and a half tertainment opportunities. In 

rickets for Neil Young trip on sale §

similar beauty. then the warm. away. However. ihe absolute, final regards to a minimum drinking 
sunny. dear. and dry climate of dradline for ticket reservations is age. as Kearse put it. "If you are a = 
Nassau is the ideal spot for you to tall enough to reach the bar. they itomorrow at A:OO outside Student§ 
Fl'hruarv 11. Pnjoy your spring break,'' says Ll'aving the Circle by bus on the will serve vou." l\Iontt• Kearse. aflprnoon of Friday. March 9. the Tickets and further information i Union office. Tickets-~ 13 i 
Kt>arse is trip coordinator for the sun-seekers will be winging their are available at the Student Union illllllllllllllllliiiHIIIHIIIJIIflllllfHIIIHUNm...wllllllllltiiiUIIII-IHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIf 


Student Union Services Corn­way from Detroit to Nassau by \1:10 ticket office in LaFortune. Posters 
mission. which is sponsoring a trip Friday night. Once in Nassau. the and flyers publicizing the activity to Nassau March 9-16. Working in Ira vellers are independent. will be distributed this week. eonjunction with Vacationers For the adventurous. Kearse Asked if he could guaranteeInternational of Arm Arbor. l\1 il'higan. the commission is of­fl'ring a travel package to all 
Alumni co-ed plan nixed 
nwmlwrs of the Notre Dame-St. l\lary's eommunity. Priced at $189, 
tlw package includes round-trip (continued from page 2) Buteh Ward. felt their efforts had planl' fare from Detroit to Nassau. not been wasted. hotel fees. and daily breakfasts. a notion Hesburgh maintained "Wl' were asking for the ideal \'aeationers will be responsible for dt•spitl' t•xperimental results to the and I think we made a step for­thrir own luncheons and evening eontrar~·. ward." nwals. Tlw proposal was considered by Ill' then added. "I can't see coed 
The Montagu Beach Hotel will :\lumni Hall again this year with a living in the near future here at <~tTomodate those who travel to similar lack of administrative Notre Dame. at least not in the Nassau in March. It boasts a n•sponse. Now the idea is being "salt and peppe(' arrangement." tradition as a rendezvous for abandoned. Pogge. less optimistic than Ward 
royalty and movie queens. and its "The way I look at it." Pogge thought coed living was a distant :li aeres sport a private beach, said. "There are enough things thing at Notre Dame. ll'nnis courts. and a fresh water that ean be accomplished around "The only way I could see coed swimming pool. hl'rP without walking into cement living here in the next few years 
Enthusiastic about the interest walls." \\'<mld be if there was a complete gl'nerated thus far. Kearse is Present Alumni President. ehange in administration." 

Little Bir:J Sc:reen 
Non-movies highlight vveek 

art ferranti 
The movies this week present an St>vereid interviews George in an rl'l£'ased February 12 with theunpromising time of en­anachronistic manner and some of l'l'rl:'mony on March 27. Now, if Ilt>rtainml:'nt and what appears to llstinov's comments as George (as ran only get Abowd to spring for alw the highlights of the week are I have read them from the press round trip ticket to Hollywoodnot movies at all. On "ARC's Wide releases) appear to be worth the 1providing. of course. that theWorld of Entertainment" watching. The interview com· papl:'r does not get burgladzed11:'\evision is to get basted by nwnces at nine. On Friday at again and John has a completeeritics in ninety minutes of t'ight. CBS will present a special change of personality). Oh well ... 
discussion and gossip. Titled Ihree hour presentation of A m£'ss of TV pilots for the next"The TV Times" it airs Thursday Shakespeare's "Much Ado About season will be released on TV asat II ::lo pm on 28 and is co-hosted Nothing" set in a pre-World War made-for-TV films in the comingby Don l\leredith and Roger One !'era. This comedy will utilE>:!:' 
months to test audience reaction(;rimsby. which is like pairing sight gags and slapstick--as and acceptance. The NielsonBozo the clown with Walter probably Shakespeare would have mtings will be the primary guideCronkite hut it should prove in­meant it to--and will be a valid but letters to the networks and aIPresting since David Susskind. version of Shakespeare's work just phone survey will also be utilized. 
produced it. as WC'st Side Story is of "Romeo J>o not under-estimate the powersDiary of a Mad Housewife is the and Juliet". The curtain rises at of letter writing. Thousands offirst of two Richard Benjamin Pight. 
letters kept ''Star Trek" on the airmovies to be shown this week and ,Jpan Paul Belmondo gets 
wlwn the ratings gave it the axeit airs tonight at nine on 16 and himself mixed up in a jewel heist in aftl:'r the second season. And, asalthough it is sparked with a pretty That Man in Rio Saturday on 16 at far as students are concerned,good performance by actress nine. A sleeper in the movie letters may be your only hope forCarrie Snodgress. it is not worth houses. this film will probably letting your views be known sincethe missing of part two of have the same effect on television Nl'ilson does not poll college andl.a\\'rC'nce of Arabia (ABC at nine \'it'wl:'~s. This week also has four university campuses. I shalltonight l. Benjamin seems to turn m<Jde·for-TV beauts, three on rl'port when a pilot is to be offered in a below par performance which Tuesd 1y and one Wednesday. The when the time for the film comesis his forte from what I have seen first is titled Baffled! and features up.
of his movie career. This film LPonard Nimoy. Vera Miles. and ln Memoriam: Actor J. Carroll concerns itself with the husbands Susan Hampshire ("The Forsyth 
Naish who played practically
1lknjamin l attempts at social Saga" l in a tale promoted to be Pvery ethnic character role except t'limhing while the wife a bout the ocrult and racing his native Irish passed aw?Y at thfISnodgress l is slow and reluctant 1soml'times writers have to really age of 73. last Friday. He had two
to do so. dig dPepl. It airs at eight on 16 (a TV sl:'ries. "Life With Luigi" in theThe second Benjamin film airs movie will not replace "Bonanza" fifties and "Guestward Ho" in theSunday on the "ABC Sunday Night and ''The Bold Ones"). On 22 l'ar\y sixties. He also had parts inMovie" as he co-stars with Ali following "Hawaii Five-0", as over 250 pictures.
l\lt'Graw in Goodbye. Columbus. J usual. David Hanssen plays an air­Trivia. Question: In what cityhope ··colombo"is on NBC since traffic reporter who witnesses a does "The Music Man" take place?
this film alsu leaves a great deal to burglary done by a helocopter and Was it
he desired. Benjamin plays a chases the baddies with his in a. l Gary. Indiana
.h•wish gigolo who makes a play Birds of Prey. It takes off at 9;30. 
b. lSt. Louis. Missourifor higher-class McGraw and ends One hour earlier on 28's "Tuesday c. l Hiverside. Iowaup sleeping with her next door to l\lovie of the Week" Robert Culp d. Hhe Bronxher parents' room in her mansion. and Eli Wallach star in the science 
P.Hill in.................. ? 
What is really depressing from this fietion flick A Cold Night's Death Phillip Hoth adaptation is that in which the two actors play Iknjamin deserts Me Graw in a scientists harassed by an evil 
seedy hotel when he learns that her force. Culp. although he played parents have found out about their tennis bum-spy Kelly Robinson for rt-lationships. Both films must be four years on "I Spy" is no extensively edited since television stranger to the role of scientist 
Going to 

is still not ready for (and perhaps since I can remember him having rightly sol Benjamin and McGraw similar roles at least four times in 

Columbus?

taking a shower together or "The Outer Limits". Finally, Snodgress and Frank Langella SnatchC'd airs on the 28 Wednesday 1who plays her lover l enjoying the movie at 8:30 with a large cast of rudim£'ntary actions of adultery. stars involved with a three person For the more intellectual among kidnapping. "Madigan" at the 

Please give me 

~·ou who also want some good solid same time on 16 deals with the Pntertainment on Thursday on ~ l\Jafia in Naples and seems to Pt>ter Uslinov plays George III, t~ promise more. 
a call at 46 79 

"Last King of America" in CBS's Trivia Notes: The nominations new "Revolution" series Eric for the Academy Awards will be 

Play Soccre? Looking for men NOTICES who have played soccer to join an 
established team which plays out "Wine-Steward evenings, must of Berrien Springs Michigan. have a general knowledge of wine. Play on Weekends during a fall 
App!y in person at The Down and spring season.Call Niles 616· u.,ner. Inc., 910 W. Ireland Road, 684·0286 evenings. 

• 
• 1 Bend, Ind. Sister Marita Needs volunteers 
A•• : 1oung lady with nothing to do tor this semester. If interested this weedend, call Hush, 1463 Call Bob or Mark at 1321 or 1322 
Interested in learning how to read FOR INFORMATION ABOUT and study faster? Evelyn Wood THE GAY AWARENESS 
Reading Dynamics will be COMMUNITY, CALL 7789, W-Th· starting classes shortly. Sign up F. 8-10 P.M. before mini-lessons and save 30 per cent on the course. Call 3854 "Students needed immediately to 
act as representatives tor a Sophomore or junior student from CJ1icago research company. 
the Allanla, Georgia area to work Plenty of money to be made in this summer as manufacturers' spare time. Call (312) 922-0300 representative. Call Greg at 1521 
WANTED Michiana Sports Car Club Meeting 8 pm Feb. 1. First Bank Overseas jobs tor students. and Trust US 31 North and Australia, Europe, S. America, Cleveland Road. Phone 272-9914 Africa. Most professions, summer 
or full time. expenses paid, Sun Freaks: Nassau is warm, sightseeing. Free information, Sunny, Clear and dry. Deepen write, TWR Co. Dept F2, 2550 
your Florida tan. March 9-16$189 Telegraph Ave., Berkeley. CA 
9J704 Part time jobs available for Hostesses, Cocktail Waitresses LOST AND FOUND 
and Busboys. Please apply in 
person Between 2 and 5 pm. Lost: Electric Timex Watch Boar's Head Restaurant 52885 US before Thanksgivin(l. Please 31 North. South Bend. Return, Reward. Mike 1496 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS­L~st: On South Quad. SMC class THURS. BEB. 8 Camp Wavne: ring with initials K.A.O. If found 
· chi.drens summer camp !\I.E. please call Kayo at 233-2274 Pennsylvania. 3 hrs NYC and PJ1ila. Counselors who like SMC qirl who helped carry bag of children with specialties in sports, books on 1:30 shuttle Sat. nile­water. arts. & science activities. please contact Pamela-4816-439 Sign up room 207 Administration Holy Cross. Bldg. Write 633 Barnard A.ve., Woodmere N.Y. 11508 FOR SALE 
Before you. buy a diamond learn FOR SALE Fender iazzmsster all the facts. It may save you a quitar -Good condition and qredl deal. call: James 3118 reasonable. Contact the Creepy 
Cruddy Brown House and ask for Spend your Spr i jng Break by MeMoo 233-8343 yes that's 233-8343 Doing something different this 
year 1969 VW Beetle. low mileage, The YOUNG place to be beautiful blue, $1195 or best offer, Where all the ACTION is call 233-4024 after 5. 
PARTIES, GIRLS, GOODTIMES Reduced rates for N D St. Mary's Pilnilsonic Eight Track record Students plilyback tape deck. Perfect ACAPULCO Cond. $70. Ken. 8620 257.50 Price includes round trip air tare Allied reel to·reel tape deck. Orig, (Chicago) cost $150. Sell tor best offer. Call All ocean front hotel ac~ Joe 8427 cornmodations For reservations call Del Cooper '71 Honda 600 Sedan like new 
2723004 cond. 40 MFG economy. 4 speed, bucket seats, front wheel drive. $950 j M. Causey, days 282-2591. Eves. 291-2975 


by Stan Urankar The Spartans' Steve Colp beat Kronholm on a breakaway with
Notre! Dame pulled out all the only two-and-a-half minutes gone, stops and skated right over WCHA but Notre Dame got H back withleader Michigan State last just 42 seconds to play in theweekend in one of the most im­period. State forward Markpressive displays of hockey the Calder was sitting out a slashingACC Arena has ever seen. 

call when super scorer EddieCoach Lefty Smith's icers tan­Bumbacco popped in a loose puck, talized tlw Spartans for 24 minutes his 29th goal of the season.
Friday night before breaking loose That first session score wasn'tfor seven straight goals and a indicative of the game in the minds morale-boosting 8-5 victory. 
of Smith and the Irish squad. 
Saturday's dosing game was more "We were getting good of the same, with N.D. blasting five opportunities through ourgoals past conference leading speed. and from what we'd seen ofgoaltender Hon Clark in the first Clark in practice, we knew wenine minutes and coasting to could get to him eventually."
;mother Iaugher,13-5. 
Smith commented.
Ttw twin triumphs were good for 

four points in the conference "Get to him" is just what Notre standing. hut even more, they gave Dame did. pummeling Clark for a much-rwed lift to the confidence five second period goals to break 
of Smith's skaters. "We were a lot things open. The Spartans sh<trper." said co-captain Paul brought about their own undoing, l{pgan. who picked up a goal and as and MSU defender deflected IRISH UP, SPARTANS DOWN! Scenes like this one, showing Notre Dame's Ray DeLorenzi exulting three assists for his weekend ef­Hay DeLorenzi's centering pass after the second Irish goal Saturday night, were oft-repeated last weekend at the ACC as Notre Dame forts. "We're playing together into the nets for the second Irish swept league-leading Michigan State, 8-5 and 13-5. Joining the celebration are Les Larson (6), Larry
goal.
now. J<:veryone's scoring, and Israelson (19) and Paul Regan (21) while the Spartan skaters turn away, dejected.
\\;l''re getting good balance." Bumbacco's second score came on crying to Spartan coach Amo into double figures for the first Less that a minute later,Smith is pleased with his boys' a flip shot from in close at 8:36, Bessone . Little-played junior Tom time this season. With 4,787 in DeLorenzi took H.egan's pass from wl'llrounded performance. "The then junior Larry Israelson hit for Bowen came on to thwart any attendance (a new record) it took H laceoff and fired a low wrist shot attitude is doing it now more than concecutive tallies on perfect feeds r£>maining Irish effort~, but the only 23 seconds for a pair of big past the surprised Clark. Only 31 <tnything else." he noted. "We're from Bumbacco and DeLorenzi, game had long been decide~ before records to be shattered. Bum-seconds after that. Israelson picked going out there and thinking respectively. Ian Williams capped the Spartans rebounded wrth lour bacco and John Noble snuck away up a loose puck bPhind the State defensl' now... the back-checking the big period with the second Irish late markers, two of them off the to a 2-orl-1 break, and Bumbacco goal and skated into the slot to trv help from the forwards is power-play goal of the night, stick of freshman Brendon deckPd past defenseman Norm a hackhander from 15 feet. Clark lwcoming automatic, and with batting home a Bumh:~cco rebound 
Morency. Barnes at the State blue line to flip kicked that one out with his rightthat. youl'an't help but look good." just 18 seconds after State captain .A new ACC record hockey crowd a 15-footer past the still shaky pad. but the rebound bounced After one period of Friday's Bill Sipola was caught hooking. ol 4,722 saw another mark broken Clark. straight to the unguarded Regan 
opener. the two squads were Clark, who had stopped only four in the opening night's battle. That score gave Bumbacco 32 who never hesitated as he popped
deadlocked at a goal apiece Both of nine shots sent at him in that Bumbacco's three goals set a new goals this season, eclipsing the old it in the right side. 
Mark Kronholm and MSU's Clark wild middle session. didn't last season total for hat tricks with standard done in 24 games by Spartan badboy Bob Boyd threw a put on super shows in goal during much longer. Still another man-up four. breaking a previous record Wittliff during the 1968-69 season. solid elbow at Pat Conroy to draw a that first twenty minutes, with tally--this time by DeLorenzi on a jointly held by John Noble and Phil The assist awarded to Noble put t wo-rn inute penalty at 5:41. 
NI>'s junior net-minder kicking out :~5-foot slap shot---coupled wit!) 
Wittliff (the latter did it twice) him at 200 points for his career, Shortly thereafter. Williams sent a Ill shots and Clark knocking away Bumbacco's third goal of the Even more records tumbled making him a member of an ex-cross ice corner pass to Noble. The 

lfi Irish "Cfforts. game, sent the junior netminder Saturday as Notre Dame broke elusive collegiate corps. senior center set things up from the left side. and placed a perfect l'eed onto Bumbacco's stick in the slot. Eddie then fired a hard ten­foot wrist shot past Clark. 
Barnes tried to get Bumbacco out of his club's hair at 9:05. While it gave N.D.'s top scorer a two­

Bruins romp tono.61,82-63 
by Jim Donaldson 
UCLA's only weapon. Keith Wilkes minute minor f,or roughing, it 
Sports Editor 
led the Bruins in scoring, dropping didn't do the State defenseman any 

Lightning doesn't strike twice in in 20 points. and Larry Farmer good. forcing him to the locker the same place. At least not within contributed 16 points. The Walton­room with a game misconduct two years. Wilkes-Farmer trio also whipped penalty. Williams made good on 
UCLA's awesome Bruins t'he Irish in the rebounding the 4-on-4 opportunity1 deflecting returnPd to the site of their last department. combining for 31, as home Steve Curry's blast from the basketball ~feat. Notre Dame's UCLA outrebounded Notre Dame, right point. That gave the
• AthlPtic and :convocation Center, 51-:J9. roaring fans a 5-0 Irish lead to Saturday afternQOn with a string of UCLA was never in danger cheer for. and once again Clark no ··idories in tow and a shot at Saturday. They never trailed and decided he'd had enough. settmg the all-time NCAA record led by six or more points for all but Boyd deflected a Chris Murfey for l'Onsecutive wins. previously the l'irst five minutes. hom b between Kronholm 's legs lwld hy San Francisco. Walton's tip-in of a Farmer shot with the Irish a man short at 11:15, And with 6-11. All-American accounted for the first basket of but the Irish got that marker right ('l'ntl'r Bill Walton .showing the the game but Dwight Clay coun­back as Noble deJected Bum­way. UCLA added collegiate tered that hoop with a 20-foot barco's pin-point centering pass basketball's longest ·'winning jumper. Farmer connected from into the net. strPak to its unprecendente'd list of 15 fpet when the Bruins came Michigan State got a quick ad­l'age laurels. Walton scored 16 downcourt but John Shumate tied vantage in the second period when points. pulled down a game-high 15 the score again with a pair of free J{('gan was nailed for interfering rebounds and intimidated Notre throws. with goaltender Bowen. Once Dame on defense as UCLA A short jumper by Walton and a more. though, the Spartans badly musell'd its way to an 82-63 driving layup by Larry Hollyfield .blew it as Boyd earned a ten­triumph. put UCLA on top, 8-4, but scores by minute misconduct and Moreney 
"I'm very happy about setting Shumate and Pete Crotty tied wns whistled for tripping. It was th£' record." a smiling but placid things up again. But that was the Irish scoring time again as coach John Wooden said. "This only time in the first half that the defenseman Mark Steinborn and d(wsn't compare with winning that Irish could get two baskets in a row Noble fed Bumbacco for a low first national championship, and, after Wilkes sank two 15-foot wrist shot that beat Bowen in the though. I don't mean to downgrade jumpers and Farmer made a layup right corner. the streak. but it wasn't our goal. with 5:15 gone, UCLA led, 14-8. Williams set up Conroy for a Each year. we gear toward win­The teams traded baskets for close shot that snuck between ning the tournament and this year almost four minutes after that six­Bowen and the post at 7:09, and was no exception. although we point Bruin spurt but a Farmer Curry connected on a 30-foot point were verv conscious of the record layup and Walton's bucket on a lob drive eight minutes later that once we approached it." play put UCLA ahead by eight, 26-negated State goals by Colp and 
• The Bruins set the record in 18, with 9:29 to go in the half and Murfey. convincing style and vtooden was Notre Dame was only able to cut The third session then began quick to praise his «ttub,Si!ymg, "I the margin to six points once the with penalty killers extrodinaire thought we played very well. Our~ rest of the way. Pat Novitzki and Mike Tardani 
defense was very solid and I Two hoops by Farmer opened up doing their thing. Tardani picked thought tqat we did pretty well a :J4-23 lead for UCLA with about up a loose puck at center and fed what we wanted to do." five minutes left in the half and the freshman defenseman who It had been just over two years baskets by Pete Trgovich and whipped in a low wrist shot for a 
since Notre Dame. led by an Walton. after a Brokaw two­10-3 Irish lead. outstanding, 46-point performance pointer. enabled UCLA to leave the Kronholm was trapped behin(j by Austin Carr, stunned the court with a 38-25 advantage. his own net at. 2:07 and Dennis Bruins. 89-82, before a screaming, we had to accomplish in order to shots and hit them, but our Leading, 42-31, early in the Olmstead fired into the open Irish 
capacity crowd in the ACC. Since beat UCLA." Phelps said. "First, shooting (37 percent) wasn't good. second half, the Bruins ran off goal. Rick Schafer then got a Wl' fPlt that we had to score against We also wanted to press more, but seven straight points on baskets by 
then. UCLA had rolled to 60 con­couple of Irish scores . 
secutive wins and its sixth and therr press, and we managed to do we don't have a lot of depth and I Wilkes, Hollyfield, and Farmer Schafer broke away with seventh straight national cham­that t~arly in the game, forcing was afraid we'd get too tired." and a free throw by Lee to move in Bumbacco for a 2-on-1 break and pionships. Saturday, "Digger" them out of it. We didn't do so well UCLA was just too good," Phelps front. 49-31, and ensure their place pumped home a low slap shot.
in the other areas, though." "They're
Phelps and his youthful Irish squad remarked. a great in the record book. The UCLAns' After Stat~:'s Michel Chaurest 
··we wanted to stop their running team."
had hopes of stopping the Bruins' lead eventually reached 25 points, tallied at 14:56, Nyrop hit Schafer 
game and we didn't do a good job Walton was the key man for the
win skein before it reached record 75-50, with 3:39 remaining in the cutting through the middle a 
at that." Phelps continued. "We
numbers in front of a highly vocal Bruins. scoring with ease inside, game as the Bruins breezed to minute later and Ric deflected the
had hoped to contain Walton but he 
lull house and a national television especially on a perfectly timed lob their 61st consecutive victory and pass over Bowens'right shoulder. 
audience. hurt us. Fourth, we knew that our play that was virtually un­upped their record to 16-0. Notre DeLorenzi did the same at 16:34 for
offensive execution would have to stoppable, and controlling the Dame suffered its third straight 
his fourth goal of the weekend,"We had five objectives we felt be good so that we could get good backboards, but he was hardly 

loss and fell to 6-9. with H.egan doing the honors. 



~--------~~­

E. A. Goerner Professor, Government 
The labor union is a typical form of social organization in the con­text of a bourgeois capitalist society in which the domina! ethic is that of laissez faire in­dividualism. American labor unions were organized to defend the interests of workmen against the interests of the masters of eapital goods without which the workman cannot work. 
i\nwrican labor unions have almost universally regarded the interests of the workers in this eon text as being comprised of two dements: wages and working conditions. They have systematically worked to ease ~~·orking conditions. They have svstematica\ly sought to increase the wages of the workers whether that nwant a bigger cut of the proceeds of the firm's sale of the goods produced through the use of capital goods by labor on1:hether tlw t meant higher prices to the consumer or both. Those have also lwen the principal concerns of labor unions as they have recetly nwde themselves present in education. 
Teachers who are wondering whether a labor union is an ap­propriate mode of organization for themselves need to ask a number of questions. The first is a general one about the merits and defects of labor unions. Secondly, thev need to ask ·whether their aetlvity is such as to be helped or hindered by such a mode of organization. And. finally, they need to ask whether there is any alternative course open to them that better deals with the problems that made them think of organizing or joining a labor union in tl-}e first place. 
As to the merits of labor unions, no one can deny them the glory of having rescued hordes of men, women. and children fr(Jffi debilitating . destructive and demoralizing conditions of work. Nor can anyone deny then the enormous credit that is theirs by 1·irtue of having secured decent wage levels for workers against the outrageously exploitative avarice of capitalists and the ignorance or unconcern of the purchasers of the workman's work who paid ridiculously low prices. 
On the other hand. where labor 
unions have found themselves in 
positions of power they have 
seldom shown themselves seriouly 
responsive to the criticism that 
their successful demands for high 
wages andpeopleon fixed incomes, 
for example) that are as morally 
outrageous as the wage ex­
ploitation the workers may once 
have been subjected to. And it is 
not unknown for labor unions to 
have pressed ruinous wage 
demands in firms and industries 
that were too weak to stand a 
strike and too weak to compete if 
they granted the wages demanded 
and that. consequently, collapsed. 
Of equal, if not greater, im­
portance. labor unions have found 
themselves quite uncreative in the 
field of working conditions. They 
have been good at easing them 
when they were hard and harmful 
But they have scarcely been good 
at devising modes of work that 
would be satisfying for the worker. 
They have in fact largely been 
acc~mplices of the managers in 
creating conditions of work in 
American industry that so often 
tend to make of the worker a 
mindless slob producing tasteless 
slop. 
Reflection Will show. I think, that 
those defects of labor unions are 
not principally a consequence of 
the singular moral turpitude of 
their memberships or leaders but 
are more a product of the fact that 
the labor union is a part of a moral 
and institutional fabric in which 
there is no place ·or a common 
good. sometimes no· even a place 
for a common interest. The labor 
union is profoundly marked by the 
moral and spiritual isolation, 
alienation that characterizes the 
bourgeois ethic within which there 
t·an only be pl.1ce for the aggressive pursuit of private in­terests as far and as hard as one's guts. calculations. and competitors allow. 
A teacher wondering whether to organize or join a labor union evidently need to wonder whether his voeation or life-activity is likely to be advanced by such an organization. It is conceivable that someone be teaching under cir­cumstances similar to the most exploitedof migrant workers. It is not only conceivable, some people are. ·They are not the majority. !\lost of them have skills that would allow and result in alternate l'mployment. But unless there be some change in their terms of appointment they will inevitably think of labor unions as a remedy. 
Sl'condly. there is a curious ambiguity in the institutional and moral history of American universities. American univer­sities are generally organized in a way not very different from the business cor.poration. Although there are no stockholders, the 
·corporation is in the hands of a 
hoard Of trustees roughly 
equivalent to the board of· direc­
tors of the business corporation. 
I.ike the directors of the latter, who 
are not workers producing the 
products of the firm. the trustees 
are not scholars engaged in the 
aetivitv of the university. The 
eapitai of the university, namely 
the buildings, books, laboratories, 
without ·.vhich the scholars cannot 
teach and study, is controlled by 
the trustees. <That was of lesser 
importance in other times when a 
far smaller plant was needed to 
found and run a college or 
university and when great private fortunes were still numerous. In those days, disgruntled scholars could think seriously about star­t ing their own university or college. Nowadays. big capitali is necessary even to win ac­creQitation and grant degrees. And. since we live in a society of job holders few indeed are the ~tudents who can afford to forego a degree by spending their college years studying with a company of independent but capital-shy scholars who cannot grant degrees. l The trustees, in turn, give over the actual exercise of their power to a chief manag~r or president. much like the president of business corporations. 
The academic manager is, t~'pically, an ex-scholar. someone who found lhe life of action more 
interesting than the life of inquiry and reflection. Inevitably, he tends to acquire the standards of judgement appropriate to such a role: what is desirable is what is big. l'isible. powerful. reputable, comment-provoking. In short their standards tend to be external, conventional,fashionable whereas the university, insofar as it is not eorrupted, has only one standard, the truth. 
Scholars who are "contracted" to perform "faculty services" by eorporations conducted under such auspices inevitably come to regard the university in much the same way as workers regard an automobile company for whilch they work: the ultimate purposes of employees and the masters of captial are quite different, even opposed in many cases. However. 
··•••the labor union is part of a moral and institutional 
fabric in  which  there  •IS  
no  place  for the  common  
II good•••  


Professor .Goerner 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6~i~le occupancy $8~o~ble occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th, 
1973. 

HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
they need one another and so capable of vice and folly as arrive at temporary and grudging anyone. But what is interest{ng in agreements on the terms of their such matters is what one may cooperation. The spirit is essen-reasonably expect the long run tially an adversary spirit. and. the tendency of institutional structure employees band together m umons to be in the way of encouraging in order to counterbalance the ·~orne general human failings and weight and pow~r of trustees or encouraging some general human directors and their managers who l"irtues. eontrol the capital. In the case of the university as a 
Rut there is another tradition in self-governing company of American . universities _and scholars there may indeed be a l'Oileges. It 1s much more ancient, tendency to take too little account Greek. medieval, and European In of the external. the eonventional. this tradition. the university is a even the fashionable, the very s<'i.f-governing ~ompany of thing our "captains of education" scholars. The ca~ntal IS not con-are expert at. And there !Jlay be a tmlled by a foreign body. The tendency to take too little interest scholars are not employees of su~h in the sound development of the 
a body of non-scholars nor of their whole ex-scholar··captains of education,"  university,  including  its  
Naturally. such a university can be ill-run. Scholars are as  (continued  on pg. 10)  

-------------------~-------, 
··NOTICE· 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS IMPORl"ANT MEETING 
January 29 • Monday 7:00p.m.· Council Chambers 

Watch Everyday for 
MONEY SAVING SPECIALS 

FRANKIES & NICKlES 
TONIGHT AT Frankies: 
Two for the price of one on all Happy Hour Drinks 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
We Desperately need your help today! Please try to sell one Mardi Gras Raffle Book this week. The Notre Dame charities need funds more than ever••• we've never let them down before. 
Let's do something today. Thanks 
MarT.Gras Committee 





power. he's going to see something with the Administration. There is should be a general cost of living proposal to form a labor union, like that may be temporarily at­another point. I am concerned thing each year. but as far as the the painters' union, the Teamsters tractive. which is the labor union. with the economic problems of the rest goes it should be based on union. the railroadworkers union, He has visions of sit-ins and picket university in general, economic nwrit. That has in general. I think, and all these parties care nothing lines and telling the administration problems of this University. I been done here in the past. I for the public interest. All they to go to hell. Why this sense of think the administration has couldn't make a definite answer want to do is grind out more money powerlessness? I think because functioned. with the help of the ~'es or no. for thems.elves, less work, more universities and organizations are faculty. beautifully in terms of 
priveleges. more time off. I don't piling layer upon layer of persons taking constructuve action to see how this could contribute at all and offices and units and divisions, make sure the University remains all to the public interest in the so that the person in the university, economically strong. and I would academic world. They say, of whereas he formerly thought he be concerned, speaking about course. that they are banded had eontrol of what he knew and universities in general. if there together in order to maintain the how he was supposed to relate to were a strong movement toward standards of their profession, but his colleagues suddenly finds out unions that were primarily l'Verybody else in the country that there is this institute and economically oriented, that the regards the main purpose as to there's that division and there's intense struggle could really be jack up prices so that they (the this layer of administrator. He no destructive to the whole learning union members) can get rich. It longer has that sense of control, climate of the university. It would seems to me the motivation is the that what I'm doing is important really bother me. It could get to be same here. I think it would be a
and that other people recognize a really severe problem. very bad thing.the SONY system has it, and I 
that it's important. Frankly, Ibelieve the University of Detroit think what
and Wayne State, I think. I've we have to do in the 
university is dismantle a part oftalked to people there and most of the bureaucracy around here andthe reactions. indicate they don't around most universities. I think
seem to think its helped them 

Robert . Anthony, (S): The much. It throws up a lot of road­we have to get back to the concept AAUP. really, would take the place of the university of scholars, which 
blocks in the way of getting things of and do many more things than a 
would imply people supporting union. That is also a more
done. I guess from my standpoint I just can't see it. I feel as if it just them in variou<> administrative professional-type organization. I 
units. but wouldn't imply being can no useful in
doesn't have a place in the see purpose 
over them and take on a life of establishing a union.
University. Now maybe I'm being their own. separate from that of
two altruistic because we're 
learning and teaching. Frankly,human beings and we're working the record of labor unions tells theand everything else, but it just story they've
seems too much against the basic that become as 
hierarchical and bureaucratizedf('nets of a university. This is not as most organizations, so I don'tspeaking as an administrative see them as any relief or con­man. this is speaking as a faculty. I don't think I could work under the 
solation. Robert J. Waddick. Asst. Dean system. I've seen too many things Norlin G. Russchoff, (BA): The Arts and Letters: You know, my 
opinion of collective bargaining

actually end up being taken away use of the word "union" has its from the faculty. I don't think they connotation of a group for a skilled with faculty members is not very gain that much. They might gain a or semi-skilled laborer. The good. because I think the faculty 
few dollars. New York has gone members are professional people,
faculty of a university are con­

that way and what they're giving and I don't think that unions, per
sidered to be of a professional 
se. are for professional people.

up I don't think is worth it. nature. and in that respect I could That really sums it up in a nutshell.
say that professional men should 
I would not join a union because I
not really consider joining the 
don't think it's for professional
union. But I would not see 
people. I think they serve a pur­
anything wrong with professional 
pose and I was indeed and am still.
people gathering together in 
Darwin J. Mead. Asst. Dean. (S): 
as I know. a of
associations for a common good. far as member
I don't think we should get involved C.I.O .. weal union 5 of the Unitedin thatsort of thing,and the whole Auto Workers, for when I workedidea is distasteful to me. 
at Studebaker. But that was when I was in a different position. I was m the labor forces and I think that there was a place for the union: it was a voice. I think the faculty, in John W. Lucey, (E): I don't think their situations, have the facultythey need it here. I think we can bodies as their voices, and I think get along well enough and it's \l'e would have to give up too much small enough, we really don't need in order to get union represen­it. I'd rather not do it. I could see tation. We'd have to give up our people like the state university at voice and somebody else would New York doing it. but not us. 

have to speak for us, and I don't There are problems, like how do see that as professional.

K!'nneth R. Lauer. (E): I would .vou determine a bargaining unit? 
not be for a union at this time at 
ililli;W%\\fMNHJ
You get moved into an outfit thatNotre Da secretaries are a part of? It's really touchy. In special cases I can see where it's necessary, but I don't think it's necessary here. Paul F. Conway. (BA): The AAUP is coming to the conclusion that George A. Brinkley, Chairman !Ihe union) is the thing of the Government & International future because it's happening in so Studies: Well, in the first placemany other schools. I don't know if I'm totally opposed to it. I think 
that's the answer here. 
what they AAUP stands for is what 
most faculty want. In fact, this union approach has been accepted by faculties only in extreme cases. Now. when the situation is so bad that no progress seems possible at all. I can see some justification for it. at least on a temporary basis. But I would put it strictly in that framework and, in that respect, I'm stating what I believe to be the Donald P. Kom mers. ( AL): I am AAUP position on it. I agree with against collective bargaining in 

John W. Houck (BA): I think we 
that. the university. I am against it for normally think in terms, at least in the simple reason that a university a better uni\'ersity and a university is a special kind of relationship,with a long tradition of not so between students and teachers and much union. which smacks of the Frederick W. Dow. (BA): I would between faculty members and laboring person and smacks of make the distinction in a administration. We are talkingpossible grubbiness about money. professional organization as the about a highly personalizedThese are inappropriate, so we AAUP that has numerous other community that is based on trust instead look to an association like objectives besides economic ob­Emerson G. Funk. (S): I do have a and confidence, the twin pillars on the AAUP which is 55 or 60 years jectives. and the union which little bit of contact with somebody which the University in the final old. has been the pioneer in the would be primarily economically at Wayne State, where they have analysis is based. Destroy these eoncept of academic freedom and oriented. I frankly don't see ·the unionized. and it has led to con­pillars--and you will do so with a faculty governance of the role that a union would play among siderable friction among the union--and you will destroy the university. and up until now we a group of university professors faculty. I don't know how it's going University. I for one will not would have thought that the AAUP who are. as individuals, to work out there. I don't think it's tolerate any agency or union. would have been satisfactory. I professionally dedicated to the needed here. although I'm not especially if its bargaining agentsthink what has been happening in education of the student and the absolutely sure. One has to look arc not university men, comingthe university, as well as what conduct of their research, and I into a little bit more. I'm against. between these relationships. I will happens 1 in any large white-collar would be concerned that the effect for instance, just giving blanket defy anybody who tells me to gobureaucracy. is a sense of the that it would have upon the salary to a person if he's been out on strike, for this would be powerlessness of the faculty professional responsibility in the there for x years irregardless of Bernard Norling, Acting Chairman tantamount to an interference with nwmber or of the professional individual faculty member, and how he performs. I think we History: The academic the student-teacher relationship. I technician in these large this is not to say that it isn't useful should take into account the profession's favorite public pose is am also opposed to any uniform organizations, so that as he kind of for the faculty to act in concert to performance and there should be that of disinterested idealism. So across-the-board bargaininglurches about for some way to get protect their economic interests merit increases. I think there now this amounts to another where faculty salaries con-
are 












