l 
,I 

1 

!
On The Inside 
' ~ 
NIDAS Project, page 2 
Letters to the Editor, page 4. 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 81 Thursday, February 15, 1973 

Extensive 0-C lists available 
by Tom Mirabito Staff Reporter 

house hints 
Off-Campus Commissioner Bob Sauer said today that his office along with the Student 
Sauer suggested a few considerations thatHousing office makes available a list of off students should think about when deciding tocampus housing for Notre Dame students. 
move off-campus. "Be sure to figure in all costs Sauer said that extensive off-campus housing and give yourself a little lee-way because ofis available and gave his suggestions as to what inflation; a lot of students don't do this and they R1udents should look for. 
they are surprised as to how much it costs to live off-campus," he said. Sauer went on to say "when shopping for food 
varied selection 
compare the prices from all the food stores in your area and figure food expenses on a per week basis. Most off-campus students eat lunch at the 
According to Sauer, "There is a wide selection Huddle so you don't figure this in with your 'at 
of houses and single rooms throughout the South home' food costs." Bend area." However, he stressed, that most 
He noted that in a four man off-campus set-up available housing is concentrated in two areas, the average cost for food per student per week is 
Notre Dame Avenue and the area just off Eddy between ten and fifteen dollars. Street heading south. Sauer continued by saying Sauer said that students should find out if that houses available farther from campus, such utilities are included in the payments and that he 
as on \¥estern Avenue, are lower in price but 
recommends students take houses in which include the problem of transportation. utilities are included in the monthly rent. In Sauer reported that "a good house runs bet­most cases the laundry and phone expenses are 
ween fifty and sixty dollars per month per not included in the rent and students have to deal 
student and includes utilities, and that single with these bills themselves. rooms run between twenty-five and forty dollars 
The Off-Campus Commissioner continued by a month." saying that students should never leave a deposit
One of many off-campus houses.

Sauer could give no price range on apartments 
of more than two months rent and that students but he did say that the closest thing to luxury and the housing they have to offer. should ehck on the transportation to and from 
living available to the off-campus students are The Off-Campus Commissioner went on to say campus as well as the security available to the the more expensive Notre Dame Apartments. 
that these lists do not contain all 'of the available student in the neighborhood before making a housing in the South Bend area, but 'only c'onsists final decision. of those landlords that have paid the university a Sauer will try to answer any questions per­
off-campus lists set fee to have their rooms listed. taining to off-campus living. His office phone Sauer said that his office will riot promote number is 7755,and the office is always open 
Sauer said that both his office and LaFortune landlords who have not paid this fee as it w'ould between 1 and 1:30pm any weekday. and Fr. Reihle's Office of Student Housing in the be unfair to the landlords wh'o have paid the fee. Administration building have a list of landlords 
The ex-Notre Dame bowling alleys 
Wilson stated that bowling alleys-ate unable to
BY Tom Drape 

now exist with people dropping in whenever they like. 
Staff Reporter 

" the Notre Dame student with the choice of this or !hut on his bowling night would do this or that and not show, " he said.
Research often leads to discoveries of great A secondary problem was the bookstore's need inportance accidentally through a process of more storage space. This, said Wilson, wasknown as serendipity. This phenomenon, not to • not the main concern. The bowling alleys just be confused with a Walt Disney movie, is what weren't paying for themselves.
led to the discovery of the construction and destruction of the Great, Ten, Harwood, Automatic Pin Setting, Notre Dame Bowling patronsAlleys. 
Once located in the basement of the Hammes bookstore, the bowling alleys were installed in The best supporters of the bowling alleys were the original "new student shopping center," in the priests. "The Padres", in fact was one of the 1955. The $250,000 dollar bookstore, one of the leading teams on campus. largest and most modern collegiate installations Br. Conan recalls that he would often see at the time, was dedicated in that year along priests and brothers patronizing the bowling with the Gilberts campus shop. alleys. Accordingly, ther were quite a few ex­
During their eleven-year existence, the cellent blwlers among the priests. bowling alleys suffered continuously from lack of revenue. "As close as I can remember," said Brother Conan Moran, director of the bookstore, 
odds and ends
"lhe only thing that kept going was the faculty and the clubs, especially the priests." 
Wilson also remembers the short -lived Notre 
In June of 1966 the decision was made to cancel Dame Bowling Team. "As a matter of fact, itthe rental of the automatic pinsetters and sell the was one of the better teams in the area," he said. 
alleys. According to Fr. Wilson, Vice-President But the interhall leagues were the key .in thefor Business affairs they simply were unable to operation and their interest and response waspay for themselves. 
"few and far between." "We just lost too much"The total income of the alleys during 1966 was money on them." said Wilson.
only $15,000, with our expenses totaling $23,000" recalled Fr. Wilson. 
The bowling alleys were subsequently cut in half and sold to a businessman inMichigan. All bowling team we wanted was whatever we could get out of them," said Wilson. 
The ten, hardwood floor's were hand laid at the cost of fifty thousand dollars. At first the pin­setters were semi-automatic calling for student assistance. They were soon replaced with
problems leased, Brunswick automatic pin-setters. 
The going rate for one line was 35 cents with shoe and ball rental available. In their second last year of existence, the alleys claimed $18,000 Fr. Wilson and Br. Conan both recall that the in such fees. The priests, who were not afforded main problem was that the student leagues were a discount, were responsible for $6,000 of that. inconsistent. According to Wilson, leagues are a When told of a possible revival ox interest in financial necessity in successful bowling alleys. bowling alleys on campus, both Conan and 
"The students would not pay if they didn't Wilson wera skeptical. Wilson remarked, " It show at a leagulgame" said Wilson, "you hav~ was unsuccessful back than and bowling was to agree to pay each week, that's the tr~." red-hot in those days." 



2 
warld briefs 
(C) 1973 Nn1 Yor*'Times 

NIDAS to treat addicts 

by Greg Rowinski Staff Reporter 

The Northern Indiana Drug Abuse Services <NIDASl project is interested in two kinds of Notre Dame students: Those with drug abuse problems and "straights" who want to work in its emergency outreach teams. 
NIDAS <pronounced NEED USl has been providing St. Joseph County with interim services since it officially opened its doors Oc­tober 2. at 527 West Colfax. The project. which is operated under the auspices of the Mental Health Center. will reqlize its purpose as a comprehensive treatment program if revenue sharing funds ran be obtained. 
It is presently considering ex­panding its facilities into a house at :ns North Main. 
The interim services include a dmg treatment center open to users of all drugs. "We've tried to treat every highly motivated person who's come to us," said Gene Williams. who co-ordinates the project's drug education 
program. 
With the added revenue, the project will shift from day treat­ment efforts to an integrated therapeutic approach to the drug abuse problem. Complemented by a "hot line," a detoxification center. three walk-in and out-reach service points, and hospital emergency services, the project will encompass a therapeutic community. a methedone out­patient clinic and an adolescent 
treatment center. in addition day treatment service.  to  
NIDAS Methods  
NIDAS  applicants  ungergo  a  

strenuous interview to determine their degree of motivation. "The proespect must express a com­mitment to give up his slick junkie image." said Williams. The user doesn't see the abuse as a problem until hee sees it as his problem. lTntil he is innerly motivated, he cannot be reached by pressure from the outside. 
The group does not go out and coerce the :Jsers into seeking treatment. Motivation, though, can h(• provided by pending court rases. 
lf accepted. the prospect then goes through an intense program 
Washington--The United States and North Vietnam announced an agreement to establish a joint economic commission to channel American aid to North Vietnam. But whether there will be any aid to channel remained in doubt. Several congressmen have expressed strong objections to such a program. 
Travis AFB. Calif.--The first full-plane load of returning prisoners of war arrived here from Clark Air Force Base in the Philippines. Base personnel here preared a warm but subdued greeting for the twenty men, and only a limited number of base personnel gathered. outside the terminal to welcome them back to American soil. 
New YorR--Returning prisoners of war will find an unexpected floor of gift offers from generous, and in some cases, perhaps, self-serving donors. Public and private g:-oups and individuals have offered gifts including life-time passes to baseball games, new cars for a year and Florida vacations. 
an campu• taday 
4:OOpm--seminar, "decomposition of n20 in liquid hydrocarbons" prof. yashihiko hatano, radiation lab. 7:OOpm--lecture, students fight against monopoly capital, thomas chrenshnw, library auditorium. 
8:OOpm--ice capades, ace, tickets $5,$4, $2.50. 
8: OOpm--c:oncert, "pdq bach" with peter sch•ckele, o'laughlin auditorium 
tickets $3.50 and $2 students.  '  
9:OOpm--notreIafortune.  dame  jazz  band '  
at nd-•mc  

i1f status rebuilding. The project is provided for each member, and uses four methods: role modeling, the fourth service is group coun­in which staff members who selling, including "bitch sessions." themselves kicked the habit play The fifth service is education and the devil's advocate; encounter vocational counselling. An "almost groups. which help the prospects full-time" counsellor is amemberof learn to control their emotions; the staff. A number of NIDAS self-learning. which helps the alumni are enrolled in St. Joseph prospect cope with stress and Junior College. express himself; and social en­Williams is in charge of the forcement. a give-and-take session project's Speakers Bureau which of status determination. has already arranged talks for 1400 
After four to six weeks, the people. prospect attains member status All information the group gains and. hopefully, takes a step to the is held in strict confidence. The pgoram's goals: ceasing drug use, project deals solely with the ceasing criminal behavior, .ob­treatment and of drug abuse, taining suitable employment, Williams said. continuing one's education, at­taining an adequate self-concept, Labor organizerand obtaining a socially acceptable life. 
NIDAS has five treatment to speak on evils services. The first is emergency outreach. A 24-hour emergency line is available (234-0091), con­of capitalism necting the victim of a drug abuse Black labor organizer Thomas crisis with "para-professionals" Chrenshaw will speak on the and DART (Drug Abuse Rescue "students' fight against monopoly Teaml. capitalism" in the Library 
The para-professionals are Auditorium at 7:00pm today. addiction specialists. They can Chrenshaw is president of the determine the extent of danger in Black Labor Council in St. Louis, a the crisis and also the legitimacy factory workers' organization and of the crisis. These experts can tell a noted peace activist. In 1970 he if the victim is "playing games" to travelled to Paris to confer with get methadone. according to MadameBinh about stopping the Williams. war. 
They are also called on by the courts to determine if criminals Chrenshaw has also worked in are addicts. Their evaluation can draft counseling and in the Labor lead to treatment, rather than for Peace movement. imprisonment for violators, under.-------------­public law 222. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub­
DART Teams 

The DART teams are composed 
scriptions may be purchased for $8 per

of a pair of volunteers who can 
semester ( 14 per year) from The Ob­server, l<ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre 

determine if medical aid is 
required and can provide coun­
Dame, Ind. 46556.

selling for the user and his family. 
Chuck Romanowski, a Stanford ~------------....J' 
llall resident. ~a DART member. The project is interested in ND students as volunteers. The second service is detoxification. NIDAS emphasizes detoxification without drugs, rely­ing rather on counselling and NIDAS community influences. Because of the quality of drugs in the area. the physical damage done by the abuse is often less than the victim imagines, according to Williams. The third service is individual counselling. A personal counselor 

Observer 
News Staff Meeting 
Regular, short business meeting Tonight 7:00pm Lafortune 2-D 
·w=======rfl=;======p=~=~=r=wf~i:;;==::=c=~;=;;;o:;======l; 
Saturday Feb. 24 at 8:00 o·Laughlin Auditorium Tickets: $2.50 advance $3.00 door Tickets available NOW at the 

~~~~==;=:=;=:?i=:=:=I~=~;~~=~gr::===~=~=~=~LirJ=~==~====g=~==~Jr::~=;=;=~=fl!~=============Ji: 
THE NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S THEATRE 
AFTER THE RAIN 
JOHN BOWEN'S absorbing theatrical morality pl~y surrounding events 200 years hence--after the rain. 
February 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30 pm Washington Hall Notre Dame campus Students, Faculty, Staff $1.50 
Reservations: 284-4176 (Business Hours) 183-7054 (Show Nights) 
We Solve Long Hair Problems 
Long Hair can be a problem if it is not shaped properly. We will take 
the time to help you find the style that best 
fits your need. 


All 
Services By Appointment--Call Now 
Ohe Winejammer 
HAIR STYLING FOI DISCRIMINATING MEN I BOYS 
1637 Lincoln Wav w. Closed Mondays Phone 232-6622 
~~-------------------------------------~ 
l'eel 
'JumpiD'Jack Fla.'lh' run through JOUrblood on Superex Stereophones. 
For an incredible physical experience, try this experiment. Place 
a pair of Superex Feather-Fanes on your head, and turn on the music. 
You'll feel voices rush through your veins, 
ring over your right eyebrow, or a drum roll up and 

down your spine. 

Chances are, you'll get up and dance. So 
the Superex Feather-Fone has a 15 foot cord. 
And is so lightweight, at just 8 ounces, that you 
may forget you're wearing it! However, the 
performance is heavyweight. Superex guar­
antees it for one year. 
This experiment will cost you $24.95. 
At that price, and for that performance, 
you'll see why the Superex Feather-Fane is 
the best sound investment around. 
Supere1 Stereopbones 
Feel what you hear 
For Free Literature Write: Superex Electronics Corp., Dept. F, 151 Ludlow St., Yonkers, N.Y. 10705. In Canada, Superior Electronics Inc.• Montreal. 

RENT A PINTO\ 1!5A DA~ 
Thursday, February 15, 1973 the observer 
3 

Budget cuts threaten Sr. Mari ta 
by Marlene Zloza Staff Reporter 

Due to President's Nixon's recent refusal to fund some Congressionally-approved social programs. one of Notre Dame's favorite charities may soon be in financial straits. 
Primary Day School, run by Sr. Marita and Sr. Evodine, was notified Monday by one of their benefactors. the Model Cities program. that they must cut 35 percent off their current budget allotment. 
The Dau School. which teaches reading and arithmetic to children in grades one through three, has been receiving funds from Model Cities for several areas of operation. This year's original budget was $14,000-allocated for faculty salaries, teaching assistants, books and supplies, and travel expenses for the children. This was the minimum operating cost. 
According to Professor Nicholas Fiore. a member of the school's board. President Nixon's budget cuts are the major problem now facing the school. 
"Tht' President has refused to spend money for certain social wt'lfare activities that Congress has already allocated,'' he said, "and that's the reason for the current government battle." Model Cities is one of the programs directlv involved in the cutback. 
Ironfcally, the Director of the school. Sr. Evodine. recently received word from Model Cities that an l'xtra bonus would be forth­coming for this spring. 
"Someone frmn Model Cities called about three weeks ago and asked if we could use about $3.000 more and of course we were very 
happy,"  Sr.  Evodine  explained  
Tuesday.  
ISSUE STAFF:  

Night Editor:  George Lund  
Ass'l  Night  Editor:  Art  "Sunshine"  
Esposito  

Design: the above two plus a host of others 
Day Editor: Tom Drape Pictureman: Jerome Phillips Sports Night Editor: Vic borr Hal's Fixer: Joe Wilkowski Hal's l<eeper: Phil Orscheln Night Controller: Howie Halle 
Typists: John Flannigan, Steve 
Barb Norcross, Moshe Anantasoff 
Culinary Delights: chocolate 
Folgers 

"After that they had a meeting and decided to offer us $2,500 which was especially welcome because $2.000 was earmarked for food and we have never been able to get any funds from any agency for that specific purpose," she added. 
Last week, however, the Day School received a letter asking the directors to attend a Model Cities meeting last Monday night. 
According to Sr. Evodine, that's when the dream come true became "a little bit frightening." Primary Day School was asked to deduct 35 per cent from the original budget. 
"We can either use it all up tomorrow or spread it out until June. but I personally think that if they signed a contract until July '73 they should honor it," asserted Sr. Evodine. 
Actually. the Model Cities program does not really know how much money they have left to work with and can only estimate at this point. "This has all taken place since Monday at 8:00pm and it is not at all a stabilized situation right now," said Prof. Fiore. 
There is a possibility that Congress will prevail and the school will receive their original cut and the $2,500 bonus. When it was proposed, Sr. Evodine was told the new funds were for food and travel expenses for the teachers. 
"Sr. Marita and I are planining 
I o attend the Internationa! 
Heading Conference in Denver this 
spring and if we get funds that will 
be very nice," said Sr. Evodine, 
"but if not we will squeeze the 
money out of our current 
salaries." 
Fiore outlined the options open to 
the Model Cities program if 
Nixon's authorization ho.ds. 
"There are two choices which 
face the program. They can spend 
the remaining money slowly, in 
Roper, cake & 


Jordan Motors 

SetA MILE l 
FOR ~RE:. 11\JFO,CALL: 
"Craig Kapson" or Lois Tranter 259-1981 
For students and faculty 21 and over. 
RENT·A·CAR 
which case it will last until June '74 and they can keep 50 per cent of their ongoing activity," explained Fiore, "This is called the stretch­out plan." 
"Or they can spend at the originally planned level anrl the funds will last until the fall, which is the burn-out plan," continued Fiore. 
It is not exactly clear yet how drastically the Day School will suffer. 
"Sr. Marita's school may have to operate with one half the funds that supply salaries and supplies, curtail their activities severely or try to get money from other sources," said Fiore. The school could also get eighteen months of full-scale operation or get cut off completely." 
If there is cutting to be done after the final decision is made, Sr. Evodine will still face more questions and problems. 
"It is unclear whether we were asked to cutsalariesor just supply and travel funds," she stated. "There was some idea that if we had already committed money for salaries, they would pay for it." 
"We are having a board meeting Thursday," continued Sr. Evodine, ·•and we will probably take some action and write to our 

eongressm~e~n~·~"--------~G~,r~a~s::_.'_'~U~l~li~n~g~e~r~d~e~ta~i~le=Gt~---=============:=: 
WHAT'S YOUR GIRL BACK HOME DOING TONIGHT? 
Long distance still is the next best thing to being 
@Indiana Bell 
Sr. Evodine also commented on the tone of the Monday night meeting. "The atmosphere at the meeting was very tense," she related. 
The Director mentioned the remarks of one of the men present, 
who asserted that although the Model Cities program wasn't (aultless and had some areas of waste, there are other aspects that are very important and are working fine. 
"He said that the program gave the poor people some hope," stressed Sr. Evodine. "I feel we should pay attention to the things he said and I hope the government realizes the importance of this money." 
Fiore outlined some of the other "options" that the school has been pursuing simultaneously. 
"We are working on four possibilities; a co-op program with the education departments at IUSB and at SMC, working through the United Fund, and 'begging' as we've done in pat years," he said. "You could say we have five irons in the fire at once." 
On the ND c~mpus, Rick Ullinger has been working with the school and helping raise funds. 
··we get some money from the diocese, donations at masses, campus collections and Mardi 
Sr. Evodme also praised the work of ND student volunteers who do work at the school on an in­dividual and steady basis. "Some of them have been with us two or three years and we know how helpful they are to us," she said. 
r-------~-~---­

WhAT's ThE 
RELiGiOUS LiFE LiJ{E? 
Aslc the Men Who Know 
Contact: Fr. Andrew Cifemi, 0. Praem. Holy Cross Hall, 107 UNO tele: 283·6185 
, 1 
1 

,
, , ~ 
j 
~ 
j 



4 
Letters ... . .. on security, abortion , and others 
Escort Service 

t•:ditor: 
Who is escorting whom when l'ampus security guards volunteer to travel. not with individual walkers most in need of company, hut with relatively safe groups of thn•e or more? 
Sincerely. 
.Joan M. Wylie 
114 Lt-wis Hall 
Kerstenism 

J..ditor: 
Tlw current. much publicized campaign to choose "Mr. Dirt" as S<·nior Fellow demonstrates an amazing lack of maturi~y \on the part of certain members of the S<•nior class. If these persons disagree with the politics of per­sonalities of previou~choices, fine. 
It is for them to find someone of tlwir own persuasion who has contributed in a significant way to Ihe betterment of mankind. If they 
consider the award meaningless, let them abolish it. This attempt to revive "kerstenism" is a poor reflection on the individuals in­voved as well as the entire student body. Further Observer coverage of this phenomenon would be worse than a simple waste of print. 
r Attention encourages rather than discourages the fantasies of children. 
' 
,' 
' 
Yours, 
, 
Stephen Pettit
' 
I 
r No Abortion 
~ 
Editor: l<'ollowing the decision of the Supreme Court on the con­stitutionality of laws permitting abortion. there has been a great outpouring of the opinions of millions of people of all political and religious faiths concerning that ruling. In a statement read at all the masses on Sunday, Feb. 4, the six Catholic bishops of Indiana rt•jected the finality of that decision. Thev affirmed the inalienable right of all men to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, while the dfect of the Supreme Court decision is to withdraw the protection of life for human beings 

Also Concord Mall in Elkhart Downtown open Mon. & Thurs. 'til 9. Blackmond's open Fri. 'lil9. Olhers nlte'til9. 
at any stage of pregnancy. The 
bishops pledged their continued 
l'l forts to uphold the right to life of 
the unborn and to make available 
viable alternatives to all abortion 
and to maintain an effective 
n•spect for the dignity of all human 
lire. 
In a comment on the joint 
statement Bishop Leo A. Pursley 
of Fort Wayne and South Bend 
points out that the right to life 
without the right to be born is self­
contradictory. "How the same 
body of men." he declares, "could 
n•voke the death penalty for 
convicted criminals and, in effect, 
impose that sentence on innocent 
human beings is beyond all un­
derstanding." 
The dear well-reasoned 
statement of the bishops deserves 
the support of all people who 
believe in the sanctity of human 
life and the right of the child in the 
mother's womb to be born. The 
affirmation of these great moral 
principles. which lie at the heart of 
our Constitution. makes the 
statement an historic one. 
Hev. l .John A. O'Brien Ph.D. 
Capt. Denton 

I<:ditor: 
In the discussion about the choice for Senior Fellow, the general feeling seems to be that there is no candidate worthy of this honor. or if there is, the Seniors, typifying Notre Dame, would not he able to recognize him. Maybe. this is true. I don't know, but my· purpose is not to affirm or deny this statement. 
Rather it is to suggest that there are several persons whom we have forgotten to consider. These men have all shown dedication, courage. and sacrifice; virtues which Notre Dame and America have always, at least verbally, £'ncouraged. I'm referring, of course. to the prisoners of war who have given part of their lives for their fellow man. 
I think we owe these men our admiration and gratitude. By giving one of them the Senior Fellow award, we can express this sentiment to all of them. I suggest to the Senior Fellow Committee that Navy Captain Jeremiah A. Denton, Jr., who was an eight year prisoner and the top-ranking of­ficer to return Monday, be nominated. 
If we have lowered our values enough that we need a Mr. Dirt to symbolize it, then it seems to me that instead of merely admitting our lack. we should try to raise our values. Maybe the nomination of such a man as Capt. Denton will contribute to this goal. 
I hope the Senior Fellow Com­mittee and all seniors will take this suggestion seriously. 
Rick Maggi. 
364 Cavanaugh 
Prickly Heat 
I<:ditor: 
It has come to our attention of late that the SLC at the request of Dr. Philip Faccenda will in­vestigate several proposals in­troduced at the February 5 SLC st>ssion. We of the Notre Dame Prickly Heat Society find this state or affairs somewhat unnerving in that time and again our suggest ions for long overdue rt>form have fallen on deaf ears. Pt>rhaps with the printing of this ll'!ter. the students and faculty at Notre Dame will become more cognizant or the problems which lwset our small but tightly knit community and allow us to offer what we consider to be the first stt>ps toward a workable solution: 
1. 
That all students at Notre Dame be required to take a prickly Iwat Pxperience course to acquaint them with the social stigma of this dreaded crippler. 

2. 
To hire a full-time prickly lwat specialist at the infirmary. 


:l The prickly heat student aid program needs to be on a more secure financial basis. 
-t. That the university provide a fully air-conditioned prickly heat house. This would be a social meeting place for prickly heaters off-campus. <An idea that has been instituted in other colleges.) 
5. 
To have an increase in prickly heat resident assistants. 

6. 
That the lack of cultural events for prickly heaters be in­vestigated by the student govern­ment vice-president. The question must be asked: "Why are we not giving credence to prickly heat students in the area of cultural activity." 



With the super party supply stores, Town & Country and River park Liquors --and their super prices ! ! ! 
SEER 
SPECIAL 
on 
MILLERS SCHLITZ HAMMS 
SUPER!! 

7. The recruiting of prickly heat womt•n onto the Notre Dame campus to help improve the male­female ratio. 
H. That there be a place to house visiting prickly heat women. 
In the hands of the Notre Dame community lies the welfare of our nwmbers. We realize that time is the essence of change and so we optimisticalJy look toward the future. 
Members of the Notre Dame 
Prickly Heat Society 
<Names withheld on request) 
In loco Parentis 
I<:ditor: 
I was highly disappointed by Mr. 
Kogovsek's column of February 
!llh. In fact. the title of the column 
seems to adequately state the 
writer's attitude and approach. 
Fa Iher Burtchaell 's "In Loco Parentis" article is obviously a product of long. serious thought whil,'h calls for mature con­sideration and response. On the whole. !<'ather Burtchaell's em­phasis on the relationship between tht> university and the character of 
its students is good though perhaps___.!~~~~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
FREE 
That will be the price of admission for the Cof­feehouse FRIDAY night from 9-12 in the Rathskeller. Appearing will be Pete Snake, Bob Thomas, Rick Walters, Tom Fought, and a Surprise!! A good price, good music, and a good time for anyone who wanders in. Be sure you 
do!! 
Chivas Regal 
fifth 
$9.75 
BARClAY' GIN 
fifth 
$3.­

his own articuation of this needs fmtlwr thought and clarification. 
llaving m~·self attempted to fur­llwr such a conversation. I found 1\lr. Kogovsek's article repulsive, "cut<•" and not very funny. It is all loo easy to take "cheap shots" at 
lll<'n who are in positions where thev must make difficult decisions. 
Hi.dicule does nothing to further conversation and understanding. lronicallv. articles such as Mr. Kogovsek's would seem to prove tht• major contention of Father Burtchal'II's position: a position which rweds clarification, but on the whole appears to be sorely rweded. 
H l\1r. Kogovsek has nothing to add to a serious conversation about "In LoC'o Parentis" he would do 1n•llto have another beer and stay on the lwach hiding behind'his own Foster (;rant's He might even profitably take a dictionary along. 
Sincerely. 
1\1 ikt• MPlody 

DETROIT BUS Signups for Midsemester and Easter Breaks. 
$12 Roundtrip Call 1721 

*Keg Beer *Best Beer  LIQUOR  
PriCes In Town  T & c Shopping Center  2411 Mish. Ave.  
*Wine Cellar  The Notre Dame Party Centers  

I I 
l

•nursday, February 15, 1973 the observer 5 
1
Letters Ta A Lanely Gad 
~ 

on the unreality of the world 



I found the handbag under a chair on the floor of mv office. It has been there for more than ·a week; and a few minutes ago, I finally decided to empty it to find out who the owner is. I am sitting here now, with the contents of that handbag spread beside me on the desk. There is a hair brush, an open pack of Vix's medicated cough drops, a rouge box. a compact. a small vial of musk oil. a great number of empty wrappers of Wrigley's Doublement Chewing Gum, and a few sticks of gum. That is all the bag con· tained. There was no money, no I.D., no keys. no rabbit's foot, no book of essays by Kirkegaard. There were only these aids to health and beauty--perfume to sweeten the flesh. gum to freshen the mouth. cough drops as a therapy to the season's ills, pink paint for the tinting of blushes. Suddenly I am touched by the innocence of it all, and I am in a mood close to crying. I don't even know who owns the purse. but doesn't she realize that as the winter deepens and the night shadows fall. a girl needs something more protective than an assortment of cosmetics in her bag of tricks? Because she is so trusting and loving and pitiable, so unsuspecting of meeting snakes on the garden path. that I want to cry because I'm in love with an innocence I am helpless to defend. 
Thus. the ridiculous dilemma of a middle­aged fat man over-reacting to the am­biguous evidence of an anonymous purse. In the end I'll probably learn that the handbag was a lethal weapon used for assault by muggers. 
Over the weekend, one of the Old Grads 
Professor Peter Schickele will present his musical spoof, "The Intimate P.D.Q. Bach" at 8:00p.m., Thursday, February 
15. 1973 at Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Called "a very. very funny show--even for people who like music but don't know why" by the New York Times, Professor Schickele's program brings to audiences a musical parody of the heretofore un­discovered son of the great Johann Sebastian Bach. Professor Peter Schickele is the creator and sole biographer of P.D.Q. Bach. 
The program will include comments on the life and times of P.D.Q. Bach fully stopped by for me to bless his bank book. His final words, flung back at me as an exit line. were. "There's a real world out there, Griff." The implication, of course, was that Notre Dame. as a grove of academe, is a suburb of Fantasyland. My impulse was to send D. O'G. nipping at his heels. If, by the real world. he meant the places of pain where. in daily life, suffering is the price of survival. Notre Dame is as authentic as Calvary as a pit-stop in the rat race to death. 
an unreal world 
A boy comes to see you at midnight; and for sometime now, his mind has been mixed up with flashbacks from the drugs he played with last summer. Now, already terrified by the fear of madness, he learns that his girl is pregnant. I would be afraid to tell him that his hardships are not real enough to count as part of the passiontide of the world. 
It is possible that all of us here at Notre Dame are citizens of an unreal world. It is possible that it is from the rhythms of our social season that the stereotypes of collegial living are formed, moving as we do from the football Saturdays in the stadium in October and November, to the ski slopes of Aspen in January, to the beaches of Fort Lauderdale in April, to the summer nights spent smoking pot in Amsterdam until (pausing only to change our T-shirts) it is time to begin the school year again on the sand dunes of Lake Michigan. 
But somewhere on the vlateaus of time 
illustrated by Professor SchiCkele's collection of rare slides, manuscripts, and other memorabilia.The Professor will also play and demonstrate such unique in­struments as the Worm, the Snake, tile. Windbreaker, and the unusual Baroque Caliope. Featured on the musical program are those already infamous works, "Toot Suite for C<..,·liope, four Hands", "Diverse Ayres"fand "Hansel and Gretel and Ted and Alice". 
Professor Schickele will be ac­companied in his appearance by the noted bargain-counter tenor, Mr. John Ferrante, who has been with the P.D.Q. Bach Show since its premier in 1965. 

. between Aspen and Lauderdale, the is a freshman caught between the pressures of study and loneliness, who is on the edge of hysteria. There is the despair of a junior girl who tried too hard to be popular. There is the discouragement that lives like a ghost with the senior who has sacrificed £'very thing he might have enjoyed doing out of the hope of getting into med school, and he knows he isn't going to make it. There is the search for absolutes by a boy whose father died in the boy's first month at college. The boy has never afterwards been able to believe in God, yet he is frightened to live a life without faith. There is the student who was operated on for cancer while in high school. The doctors say he is cured: but at night, fear comes anyway as the unwelcome guest of sleep. 
only one world 
I have lived in the real world of the City in rectories that were remote from the violence of the streets. I have lived in the unreal world of the' University, in dor­mitories where I have been touched daily by the needs of students unable to cope with their sufferings. I am prepared to say that in the Lonely Kingdom of the God who also suffers, there is no world more or less real than any other. There is only one world, shaped in love, formed in pain. There are only different points on a compass, and the passageways we travel to those points·, sometimes in sunshine, sometimes in darkness. It is in the sunshine and darkness together that we find the lights and shadows of the face of the Lonely God. 
For a number of years now, I have listened to discussions on the problems of life at Notre Dame: the drinking, the misuse or sex and drugs, the damage to property; and I have felt that some of the problems 


Bothered by my conscience, enhanced by my father's financial generosity, and goaded on by Kevin Dockrell <"You may never get another chance"), I broke down and bought a ticket to the Neil Young con­cert in Indianapolis last Tuesday night. I am certainly thankful that I did, because Young was devastating. His concert rated with the best I've ever seen. 
After approximately a half-hour wait between sets (Linda Rondstadt was the first act), Neil strode on looking pretty greasy and quite stoned. His outward,appearance did not affect his performance, though, as he opened with "Tell Me Why," "Journey Through the Past," and the ·ever-popular "Sugar Mountain," in his own inimitable and very fine style. 
great rapport 
Staying on acoustic guitar, he brought out his band, consisting of Ken Butrey on drums, Tim Drummond on bass, Ben Keith playing steel guitar, and long-time friend, producer, and piano player Jack Nietzke on keyboards to accompany him on "Old Man" and "Heart of Gold" among others. He missed a few of the high notes on "Old Man," but he just laughed it off: "Did you hear my voice on that last one, man?" As usual, he had great rapport with his en­thusiastic audience. 
Neil brought everyone to their feet when he moved to electric guitar and played a powerful version of "The Loner." He followed up with "Alabama" and three new' songs which were competent, to say the least. Ben Keith realll·shone on these song:;; 
using his ~dal steel. sa shrill lead guitar:.·· 
:f,~. 
electrif. 'ng form ··•-. 
He finished up with "Cinnamon Girl" and "Southern. Man," both in high energy and electrifying form. After an outstanding ovation, he came back with "Are You Ready· For the Country" and perhaps his only poor song all night, "Last Dance" which came off were symptoms of the human condition; others are the special burden of those of us who are members of the Notre Dame community. 
You have to be able to distinguish between the symptoms of the human condition and the special burdens before you can do much about either. 
lost childhood of innocence 
In the meantime, you have the chance to examine the content's of a girl's handbag, and the gum. the cough drops, the perfume, and the colors are real enough to touch the senses. You wonder about the girl: is Notre Dame. for her, a world of romance and makebelieve? Is she ever struck with the sadness of seeing two guys sitting by themselves on a Friday night in a room watching television, simply because they don't know what else to do? After a little while, out of boredom, they will get drunk. Is she aware of the tragedy in drink and drugs that is perhaps occurring in the room next to her own'? Will she someday become part of one of those tragedies'? 
Anonymous purses tell no tales, except perhaps the tales of innocence. Innocence, you see. is the mood of children at play on summer days in Eden. But even in the dorms of Notre Daine, there comes that growth of awareness of goodness and sadness in life that results in the lost childhood of innocence. 
A.E. Houseman wrote: 
In ancient shadows and twilights Whee childhood had strayed, The world's great sorrows were born And its heroes were made. In the lost boyhood of Judas Christ was betrayed. 

Ride The Music: 
neil young 
pat small 
as one boring repeated riff. 
On the whole, it was a near perfect con­cert; a number of people stood up close to the stage and obstructed people's views­putting "getting into the music" ahead of letting other people enjoy it. 
It would be shameful not to mention a previously unannounced but pleasantly suprising first 'act, in the person of Linda Rondstadt. She and her band provided their excellent brand of hard country rock. She also performed her top 40 hit "Long, Long Time" backed by a beautiful twelve and six­string guitars and pedal steel. Un­fortunately, she was not called on to per­form a well-deserved encore due to anxious young fans. 
All in all, it was a very satisfying evening, 
which can be attested to by approximately 
fifty fortunate people from Notre Dame. 

' :; •.. J. ¥. ~ffli}'"·;·· '•'(/l!F< . .;:;.,,,:{;.j£; 
a car show: more than just a fancy parking lot 



Below. people and motors make up a car show, each's individuality sometimes rivaling the others. Right, not everyone can take those crowds and horsepower. though. 
Photos and design by Joseph Abell Special thanks to Steve Flanagan 




Thursday, February 15, 1973 the observer 
Recruiters ousted from campus 

by John Rumbach Observer Reporter 

Southwestern Corporation recruiters were asked to leave campus Sunday after Ombudsman Bill McLean filed complaint with Security claiming the company did not follow guidelines set by the Placement Bureau and that they were misrepresentative. 
Southwestern representatives complied with the request. 
The Nashville based corporation publishes and sells religious and educational books. Southwestern recruits door-to-door salesman for summer employment from college t•ampuses. 
In an interview Wednesday, McLean said the company was misrepresentative in two areas. First. they promised high salaries, but did not emphasize that living t'xpenses were to be provided by the salesman. Second, they did not completely explain the details of sales operations. 
"Some students are not cut out for the type of door-to-door sales that the corporation does," McLean said. 
McLean. following up on a student complaint, attended a Southwestern recruiting meeting held in Breen-Phillips Sunday. 
Student govt selling .magazines 
by Jim Ferry Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame Student Govern­ment is now selling current issues of National Lampoon, Playboy, and Ms. in the Lafortune Student Government offices, now renamed Pat's Bookstore, after Student (;overnment secretary Pat Euell. 
Student Government is selling the magazines (in brown paper wrappers) "because of their unavailability elsewhere on 
ND Ministry featured in film 
by Mike Kulczycki Staff Reoorter 

Notre Dame's Campus Ministry Office will be one of many campus ministries featured in a film prepared for the Indiana Newman Foundation. The purpose of the ten-minute film is to tell the story and needs of campus ministry I hroughout Indiana. 
Sr. Jane Pitz, Assistant Director of Campus Ministry, said "I would guess that the film will be shown in parishes throughout the state." 
The Indiana Newman Foun­dation has emoloved l\1ediaesthetics of Dayton, Ohio to 
(formerly of the Temptations) and The Realistic:s 
·Saturday Feb. 24 
·10: 30 p.m. (following the high school sectionals) 
·Tickets: $3.50, $4.50 ·Available at: 
Pandora's Books and Morris Civic Auditorium 219 N. Michigan Downtown, South Bend 232-6954 
After hearing the opening sales pitch. McLean identified himself and warned students present of possible misrepresentation. 
The Ombusdman left fhe meeting to file complaint with Fr. .James Shilts, Director of Student Services, but was unable to contact him. McLean then complained the Security and requested that they accompany him back to the room. 
With William Hake of Security, McLean registered the complaint with the Southwestern representatives at the meeting. I<:veryone was cooperative and the meeting was disbanded, McLean 
reported.  
Security  has  sent  a  copy  of  
McLeans complaint  to  Richard  
Willemin.  director  of  the  

Placement Bureau. Willemin informed the Observer Wednesday that two years ago Southwestern Corporatin was asked to follow Placement Bureau procedures. 
"The groundrules for companies recruiting on campus are that they register with the Placement Bureau. They must tell us their purposes for recruiting, and the times they will be on campus," Willemin stated. 
Inves tiga ti ng unregistered advertising for summer em-•' ployment two years ago, Willemin 
campus, according to SG Treasurer Mike Marget. National Lampoon was recently banned from the Huddle. 
The magazines will be on sale weekdays from 8:00 to 12:00 and from 1:00 to 4:45. 
The service was originally conceived by the Ministry of Propaganda and is now under the auspices of the Director of Campus Affairs. Walker Holloway. 
Holloway feels that the magalines "will draw the students 
'I 
II 
Our representative will be on campus: 
February 20, 1973 
Please contact the placement office for an appointment. ' 
~eop1e builct a b ~,~9J &fte,. ~e~ ~ie 
THE EQUITABLE 
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States New York, N.Y. An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F 
cwser to w11at s reauy nappemng in Student Government" and they "they will destroy the en­compassing lethargy that has been encroaching upon the campus." 
One Student Government official asked. ''What sort of man reads materials from Pat's Bookstore?" Walker replied that the materials "would appeal only the highest purient interests on campus." 
Pat added that she was "pleased to offer this service to the student body." 
attended a Southwestern Cor­poration recruiting meeting. 
"I checked out the company with the Better Business Bureau and the Dun and Bradstreet rating and round them to be O.k.," Willemin said. 
Southwestern has since sent literature about their company to the Placement Bureau, Willemin said. "I asked them to follow our procedures, and they agreed," he t•xplained. 
"We want students to know that 
we are trying to protect them. We 
don't make any judgments about 
companies, but we do check them 
out with the Better Business 
Bureau and the Dun and Bradsteet 
Hating," Willemin said. 
He added that if the South­
western Corporation registers with 
the Placement Bureau, it must tell 
students all of the risks involved 
with their selling operations. 
"When I talked to the sales 
manager. he admitted that their 
sales pitch did not hit the door-to­
door selling aspect immediately," 
the Placement Bureau director 
said. 
"Southwestern is a legitimate 
company, but we want them, if 
they are going to recruit on 
campus, to inform the student 
completely," he stated. 

Ombudsman McLean said that there were other companies on campus who advertise without registering with the Placement Bureau. "If a student runs into any problems with them, he should contact the Placement Bureau," he said. 
Plane delays Giovanni talk 
by Bill Sabin Staff Reporter 
Nikki Giovanni, black poetess, failed to appear on time for her lecture Tuesday night because of a delayed · flight at O'Hare In­ternational Airport, according to .Jim Novic, Academic Com­missioner. 
Giovanni was scheduled to give a talk at 8 p.m. in th•~ Library Auditorium. She did not arrive in South Bend until about 9 p.m., because her plane had been caught in a holding pattern over Chicago and she missed her connecting flight to South Bend. 
According to Novic, there was a standing-room-only crowd of about soo people waiting to see her. When she finally did arrive an hour late. 
there  were  still about 50  people:  
whom  she  talked  with  in  the  
Library  Lounge.  

THE RED DOOR CLUB 
Announces 
ENTERTAINMENT 
every Tuesday & Thursday Night 
Memberships Available 
CLRSSFIED RDS 
Willemin warns against com­panies who ask the student to send money for literature. Many times, I)<' said, the student never hears from the company. 
your Auto Parts Hqs. THE RIDGE CO. 
Edison & Ironwood (near campus) 2319 t:. Edison Rd. 
KEY CHAIN 

Unique key chain made with a qenuine champion model engine spark plug. Rhodium plated. 
FREE To first 100 persons with this advertisement (no purchase 

WANTED 
Graduate's wife baby sits. Lives near campus. Call 287-1222. 
Need ride to St. Louis Fri., Feb. 16, will share expenses. Call Steve 1807. 
Need ride to Wooster Feb. 23, call 1360 or 1259. 
Need ride to Cleveland area, weekend of Feb. 16, urgent. Ray 3683. 
2guys need ride to Miami Fla. on March 7. Will share driving ex. penses. Call Pete 8810. 
Need ride to L.A. Spring Break. Will share expenses. Call Bill 6832. 
RIDERS NEEDED tomorrow to Des Moines, Paul 7861. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: ladies gold watch. Great sentimental value. Reward. Call 5434. 
Found: NO clas5 ring. Call and identify. T tTh 9 am-llam, 234· 0330, Steve. 
-

Lost: Part collie, all tan male dog. Please call 233-3893 or 7471. Reward. 
Lost: Watch, Feb. 2, between D-1 and Stanford. lntialed · WTR Ill. Reward. Call Bill 8702. 
NOTICES 
Saturday 2-17 CHRIS MECCA DAY at the Rockne Pool . 2 pm. Purdue See the Notre Dame Aquatic Spectacular . and watch Chris lose! 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE GAY AWARENESS COMMUNITY, CALL 7789 W-Th· F,810pm. 
A BETTER CHOICE IS LIFE FOR THE UNBORN CHILD CONTACT BIRTHRIGHT, INC IN SOUTH BEND, P.O. BOX 824 OR CALL 289-1034. 
Before you buy a diamond learn all the facts it may save you a great deal. Call James 3118. 
Dnmn Yankee-My front page sf'ory breaks Saturday night. Southern Belle 
JUNIORS: Sign up today for your yearbook portraits today in La Fortune Student Center, Room 2C, between 9-1 & 2·6. 
Crypt Records Free Delivery On stock: New Elton John and Traffic only $3.92. Open 1-6 in· eluding Sundays. Closed Tuesday. 
New age of decadence invites you to THE HUDDLE BALL, Friday February 16, 9:00·? 
There will be a combined meeting of the GSU, SBA, Women's Rights Association & Student Members of the ASAC, to further discuss the 
proposed  Sanctions  Of  the  
Graduate  Disciplinary  Code  on  
Friday,  12  noon,  Feb.  16 in  127  

NSH. All grads welcome. 
Super Sale at PANDORA'S 
BOOKS Grand opening special 50 percent off on all used books t11 is friday, Saturday & Sunday. New store at South Bend Ave. & Sf. Louis -Across frorn Rocco's. 
PERSONALS 

Joe Tuland: SORRY Ukraine Karen 
Mar para siempre, contodo mi amor. Mickey 
Hey Grit!  
Now that I  own  3 .t'S  ot Indiana  
Bell we're  gonna  be  rich some  
day.  
Hnppy Birthday, Ace  
Bo  

Altila, you've been pimped. Your wnrriors have struck again by God' "Joan" 
Join the Marty O'Shea fan club: sign up now at 3rd floor Kennan 
286 Leman·: How long can you tread water? 
A personal thank-you to the students who mailed out the 
misplaced  letters  from  Officer  
Krill.  It  was  very  much  ap·  
preciated.  

FOR RENT 

Rooms & kitchen. Near. $40. mo. 233-1329. 
-
.. 

[JreiJare we wmm tllm, consisting of colored slides along with a sound track. 
The NO Campus Ministry Office has provided fifteen slides of various campus scenes taken by sohpomore Steve Roache. Photographer Bill Hollis of Mediaesthetics will visit selected campuses, including Notre Dame, the week of February 19 to take a11y additional pictures. 


Irish meet Rams in the Garden 
by Vic Dorr 

Two years ago, Notre Dame's basketball team played Fordham's Hams in Madison Square Garden. Both clubs were national powers that year. and both ended the season with invitations to the NCAA tournament. 
Tonight, the Irish will return to the Garden for their annual scrap with the Rams. . But ' this t>vening's game will be a far cry from the 1971 encounter-a game l<'ordham won. 94-88. 
For the Rams no longer have Digger Phelps, the young coach who led them to a 26-3 record in 1!170-'71. Phelps left Fordham for South Bend the spring after that miraculous season. and he is just ht>ginning to guide the Irish back to national basketball prominence. Fordham will be coached tonight hv Dr. Hal Wissel. the man who r~·placed Digger at the Rams' lwlm. 
Nor will the tournament picture hP thl' saml' tonight as it was two st'asons ago. Neither club has been llw object of NCAA tournament speculation. and only the Irish Sl'l'm to have grounds for NIT aspirations. Notre Dame is now 11­!l, and has won 10 of its last 13 games. including its last five in a row. Fordham. meanwhile, has been struggling, and the Rams' most recent outing was a 78-73 loss to St. John's. 
But tonight's game is an im­portant one, particularly on ND's timetable for post-season activity. Earlier in the week. the Irish coach analyzed his teams' tourney chances. "We could possibly end up in the NIT," he said, "depen­ding on how we do in our next six games. I think they might take us with a 14-12 record." 

Phelps has had his club playing on schedule since late January, and last Saturday the Irish primed for their clash with the Rams by defeating LaSalle, 87-71. "This was an important victory for us," admitted Phelps, "and perhaps the most important factor is that LaSalle plays the same type of pressing game-with a great deal of motion all over the floor-that Fordham does. I hope we learned a few things that will help us when weplay inMadison Square Garden. 
"Fordham has a great deal of speed and quickness," he con­tinued. "and we'll have to try to control the tempo of the game. They gave a great St. John's team a lot of trouble last Saturday so we know how capable they are." 
Despite the disappointments that have plagued them this year, the Rams are a capable team. They have eight lettermen and three starters back from last year's 18-9 squad. and included among the returnees is All-East guard Ken Charles. a 6-3 senior. Charles averaged 21.2 points a game for last year's Maroons, and he has able backcourt help this season from (i-2 soph Walt Douglas 06.7 ppg as a freshman.) 
Backing up Charles and Douglas are a pair of veteran holdovers, 6­:l junior Frank Heyward (7.8 ppgl and 6-1 senior Tom Pipich <who also averaged 7.8l. 
Serving in the post position for Wissel's Rams is another sophomore. 6-7, 190-pound Darryl Brown (16.2)-the second-leading scorer on last year's 12-6 frosh team. Joining Brown on the Fordham front line are two more returning veterans: 6-8 Paul Griswold and 6-6 Earl Light­bourne. 
The Rams have triumphed in the last two meetings between the leams-incl.uding last year's 89-72 decision-but may find themselves stiffly challenged tonight. The Irish. who have scored at least 80 points in each of their last five games. bring a 76.7 average into the contest. and have four of their five starters scoring in double figures. 

Center John Shumate leads ND with a 19.8 average, and he is followed by Gary Brokaw (18.7), Gary Novak 03.2), and Dwight Clay ( 10.9l. Peter Crotty, the fifth ND starter. is scoring 6.8 ppg. Shumate is also the leading Notre Dame rebounder, with 11.7 per gaml'. Novak is averaging 9.8 and Crotty 5.6 'bounds per contest. 

Tonight's game is the second 
Tonight the Irish will be looking 
game of a Madison Square Garden collegiate doubleheader, and tipoff is slated fof 9:00 pm. EST. The Irish. following their game with Fordham. will travel to Durham, North Carolina, for a Saturday night game with the Duke Blue Devils. 
'Versatile' Rocek: a winning fill-in 
Don SiIinskiF===========:=================~===;:;:::::::::====================================================================: 
What's next? 

The Notre Dame basketball team is very much in the running for a post-season tournament bid. But the invitation won't come easy. 
First of all, and most important, the team must turn in good showings in New York against Fordham and St. John's , because the New York sportswriters have a lot to say about who goes to the tournaments-­especially the NIT. A win against Fordham in Madison Square Garden will greatly strengthen our position for a bid. This game could make or break our chances at selection time, depending on what happens during the remainder of the season. 
After Fordham, we travel down to North Carolina to play Duke. We'll have only one day of practice to prepare for the Blue Devils, but a win over Fordham would carry us into the game in the right frame of mind­and with momentum. This game will end our five-day road trip and will hopefully produce two victories -including the all-important one in New York. 
We're home for two days or practice, and then its on the road again-to West Virginia. This team will be one of the easier of the remaining six tl'ams, but we can't let up because the Mountaineers have the potential to play with the best in the East. 
After this game we head for New York again, to play St. Joh's on regional TV. Here is another crucial contest for deciding that post-season tournament bid. A win against Fordham and one against St. John's would almost guarantee a bid to the NIT, and, depending on the outcome of our olher games, might even open the possibility of an NCAA tournament bid. 
or cours. an NCAA bid would mean winning at leastfiveout of our last six games, and two of those victories must come against the New York h·ams. 
After these consecutive five-day road trips, we return home for the two n·maining games of regular-season play. 
Western Michigan will be another tough team. They'll be out to bpatNotre Dame. and "make" their own season. Western Michigan has good team. and the added incentive of playing ND should make for a good eontest. Our final game is against South Carolina. What better way to end the season than by playing against a nationally-ranked team? -and again on regional TV. Everyone knows South Carolina has a very tough team. and should realize how this match-up will be played. 
An important factor in this game will be whether the tournament bids habe been selected. If they have not been awarded before March 3rd, then the outcome of this game could earn a spot in the NIT, or even the NCAA tournament. for the winner. 
All this tournament talk might seem out of reach at the present, but \1 ith the key teams yet to play it can become reality. One must remember, we've beaten all of the Midwestern independents we've played this season -they are Marquette, Dayton, and DePaul. These victories will give us an added edge at selection time. We have also beaten two Philadelphia teams, LaSalle and Villanova, who are in the. running for post-season invitations. Now, if we can only come away with 
by Lefty .Ruschmann 
"Versatility" is a word which has been worn down as badly as AI Hocek} opponents this season, but the term aptly fits the winningest member of this year's Fighting Irish wrestlers. "Ace" has now won 22 straight matches as a heavyweight. a weight class in which he had never anticipated eompeting as a collegian. 
Rocek. upon going out for wrestling his freshman year, was told by coach Terry Mather that he· would not wrestle as a heavyweight, as there were already two veteran heavyweights ahead of him. Moved down to the 190-pound class, Rocek was forced to shed nearly a quarter of his high-school competition weight and had to adjust to a new style of wrestling. 
''It's a rought adjustment from heavyweight down to 190," Rocek explained. "As a heavyweight, you ean take your time a bit more, but wrestling 190 is more explosive. A I so. 190-pounders don't get exhausted as easily as the heavyweights." Rocek, who keeps himself in top physical condition under Coach Mather's "Grinder", has used his endurance to grind out victories rather than go for the quick pin. "I can't pin my man right away, so I have to wear him down. It's fascinating to watch many heavyweights 'die' in the third period." 
When the NCAA wrestling tournament opens with regional matches on February 22-24, Rocek will return to 190-pound com­petition. by-passing the likes of heavyweight Chris Taylor. "Ace," a junior. views the tourney, in part. as preparation for next season, during which he figures to hold down the regular job at 190 for the I!'ish. 
Looking forward to next year, Hocek expressed optimism, staling "A lot of people are going to be surprised at our team's per­formance next year; we have all the talent we need, it's just we've been having bad breaks." "Ace" cited such individuals as Mike Martin. Dave Boyer, Peter Chimento and John Dowd as 

The pressures of competition have not interfered with Rocek's Jove of the sport. "I'm winning," he said. "but that's not the reason I'm wrestling. It's like a test, in which I learn certain skills from Coach Mather and go out and test them on the mat." His philosophy, and that of the team-is to give as much as he can-enables him to shrug off the topic of won-lost records. "I wrestle every opponent the same way, regardless his record. After going against such wrestlers as <Mike) Fanning and Gus <Phil Gustafson), one stops caring about how good today's opponent ,is." 
"Ace's" wrestling career was for a time overshadowed by his activities on the football field at Omaha's Creighton Prep High School. Rocek was Nebraska heavyweight champion, though his team floundered in dual meets. Meanwhile, playing defensive tackle and center for Prep's football team. he helped defeat .Johnny Rodgers' Omaha Tech team. and participated in back-to­hack state championship seasons, serving as captain his senior year. As a result. "Ace" was courted by such Big Eight grid powers as Nebraska ("Ihey wanted me really bad"l while he received a number of wrestling scholarship offers as 
well. 
Aside from his adaptability as an athlete. Rocek's other interests are wide in scope. Academically, he is majoring in psychology and classical Greek, and has left open his post-graduation plans. "There are 101 things I could do after leaving Notre Dame," he admits, hut he is interested in working in 1-:urope. preferring Greece or Holland. Literature, travel and dassical music rank high on his list of interests.Confessingto being a "hockey nut" and basketball fan, "Acl'" still feels that too many sports fans are missing out by not attending wrestling meets. "It's a great sport. but so many people associate it with the professional variety." 
That may be the situation now, but as long as guys like AI Rocek are wrestling for Notre Dame, it won't be the situation for long. 
Fencers face rough slate 
The Notre Dame fencing team, hoping to rebound from twin loosses this past weekend, travels to Ohio for two triangular meets. Thl' Irish will fence Oberlin and Cleveland State University in Oberlin Friday evening, and then nwet powerful Ohio State and Michigan State in Columbus Saturday. 
Ohio State and Michigan State figure to provide another weekend of stiff competition for the Irish who are now 6-2 for the season. 
"The epee team of Ohio State is every bit as strong as national ehampion Detroit and Michigan State's foil team could compete with anyone in the country,." commented Notre Dame coach Mike DeCicco. 
This past weekend and Irish were nipped in the final bout in losing to national champion Detroit. 14-13. After defeating Chicago Circle, 24-3, the Irish were slate improved his season record to 10-7. while Mulligan's sabre record of 15-6 continues to lead the ll'am in total victories. 
!)('Cicco was very proud of the weekend work (7-2) of epee team captain Mike Matranga. "He is now approaching his potentia, which is that of an All-America fencer. Mike seemed to put it all together this past week. We expect big things from him in the future. " Matranga's season record is now Hl-5 .. 
1-h bulletin 

The Office of Interhall Athletics has scheduled a swimming meet for Wednesday, February 21st, at the Rockne Memorial. 
The meet. which has a 7:00p.m. starting time. is open to all ND students -both men and women ­and will include competition in medly. freestyle, butterfly, backstroke and breaststroke 

two victories in the New York area, we will be in a strong position for examples of talented individuals beaten by another midwest power, events. selection to the NIT and maybe even the NCAA. who have not gotten recognition. Wayne State University, by the Diving competition is also 
Above all, though,'we cannot spend too much time looking into the For Rocek. next year's anticipated measure of 18-9. Standouts for planned.future, because each of our remaining games is important...and we can't Irish improvement translates into Notre Dame were all three weapon For further information, call afford to overlook anyone. We need at least two or three key victories, winning dual meets. "It's lots of captains -Mike Cornwall, Mike swimming coach Dennis Stark and then-hopefully-we can make plans to play a few more teams after fun winning meets, even if I should Matranga and Dan Mulligan. <6222\ or contact the Interhall the regular season ends. lose my own match." Foilist Cornwall's 5-4 weekend Office <6100 l. 
\ 



