

L
On The Inside 
A close look at the No Library ... page 3 Saint Mary's College goes it alone ... page 9 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, April 27, 1973
Vol. VII No. 118 
1 
• ~ 

• ~ 
~ 

•••• ~ 
~


Etienne wins SBP election; 4 ~ promises 'business as usual' i t 
I• 
by Jim Rosini Staff Reporter 

Inside: 

j
Dennis Etienne and his run­

ning mate Mike Geisinger have been elected Notre Dame I Student Body President and 
~ 
Vice-President for .the 1973-74 I
Lifton analyzes

school year. I 
Etienne and Geisinger won by a large margin obtaining 66.4 per j cent of the votes. Candidates 
I

war iznpact I f 
Rick Gering and his running mate Kevin O'Brien received 

19.6 per cent of the votes while Brian McGinty and Bill McLean A

on veterans I 
1
tallied 14 percent of the 1,614 ballots cast. Etienne had this to say about 

l
the election, "I am very pleased to have won but I was disap­

I
pointed with the small turnout of 

...page 8 l 
voters." 1 
When asked about any new I plans for the upcoming school year, Etienne simply replied, "Business as usual." 
In the SLC elections, District 1, the off-campus seat, was wonlby Bob Kincaid over Christopher McManus. District 2, consisting of the two towers, elected Mike Hess, who ran unopposed as did District 5 winner, Jude Bremer, and District 6's Bob Connolly. Of the 25 Notre Dame change in the election results due 
In District 3, Ed Rahill won residence halls, only Pangborn to the Etienne-Geisinger ticket's over Matt Kubik and in a close and Moreau Halls did not turn in large majority and because the District 4 election, Karen Moty ballots but according to election SLC elections in these districts narrowly defeated Pat Dm·e, 118 officials these votes would not fielded only unapposed can­votes to 105. have caused any important didates. 
Meet with Faccenda 



No action vs. 'Nickie's' students 
by Michael Welby Staff Reporter 
In a svrprise move by the ad­ministration yesterday, Dr. Phillip Faccerida, vice president of student af­fairs, met with the 16 Notre Dame members of the "Nickie's 26." 
The 16 students, all arrested at Nickie's and charged with being minors in a tavern, had been called before Dean of Students Fr. James Riehle for a 4: 15 meeting in the first university action concerning the incident. 
Although the meeting was scheduled in Riehle's office, it was Faccenda who spoke. l<'accenda announced that the university intends to take no action against the students but warned that the police are watching Nickie's very closely. Faccenda was more concerned with the two students charged with vandalism in the incident. (Two of the students involved were ac­cused of letting the air out of the tires of the police cars.) 
The decision not to act against the students was expected. Last week in a similar meeting, the ten St. Mary's students arrested in the raid received identical treatment. 
Expected or not, the students were relieved with the decision. Jim Clarke, one of those arrested in the raid, said, "I agreed with Faccenda's action. It was done off-campus so it didn't hurt the university."

Clarke: "It didn't hurt the University." 



,J 
I I


Ia fortune renovation 
I 

A special section alter page 6 I
@[(~UlJ~li®©li~ZJ ~ITlJ©o j 
l 


the observer Friday, Ap.ril 27, 1973
2 
warld briefs 
Washington-L. Patrick Gray 3d, the Acting Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has told friends that he destroyed documents in the Watergate case after it was suggested at a White House meeting that the papers "should never see the light of day." Gray, who is ex­pected to testify before a federal grand jury, has said that the files he ordered burned had originally been taken from a suspect later con­victed in the Watergate case. 
Washington-A government study indicates that crime victims may be reporting only half the rapes and robberies and only a fifth of the aggravated assaults to the police. The pilot study, which tended to confirm wide-spread criticism that official statistics are unrealiable indicators of criminal activity, was designed to test techniques for a continuous national survey of crime. 
Harrisburg-Gov. Milton J. Sharp of Pennsylvania disclosed a plan to give the state the nation's most comprehensive health program to contain what he called "skyrocketing medical costs." The plan, in­troduced as a bill in the legislature, would inject state management into virtually every facet of health care in Pennsylvania. 
Los Angeles-Visibly angry, the judge in the Pentagon Papers trial interrupted proceedings and sent the jury home after learning that the government had, for the second time, failed to disclose relevant information to the defense. As a result of the development, the defense may be allowed to reopen part of its case. 
an campus taday 

FRIDAY 2-8:00 an tostal, events on south quad and north quad 
3:30 lecture, conservation in art, timothy lennon, isis gallery 
5:00 mass and cookout, bulla shed 7, 9, 11 movie, cool hand luke, eng. aud. $1.00 
8:30 
free concert, elf, stepan center 

8:30 
theatre, you're a good man charlie brown, little theatre, $2.00 


9:00·2:00 smc coffeehouse, continuous entertainment, free SATURDAY 
1:00.4:00 spring on campus, smc open house, entire campus 2:30theatre, you're a good man charlie mbrown, little theatre, $2.00 
6:00 birthday party for fieldhouse, movies, refreshments, bands, free 
7:00.10:00 gallery opening, photos and ceramics, Ianier and lustic, hammes gallery, moreau 
8:00 movie, the bicycle thief, cinema '73, $1, patrons free 
8:30 theatre, you're a good man charlie brown, little theatre, $2.00 
9:00.1:00 irish wake, national guard armory 
SUNDAY 
1 :00·3:00 workshop, student coalition for hujman life amendment' library aud. 
7:30 lecture, on the exorcist, fr. o'malley, library aud. 
8:00 movie, the cicycle thief, cinema '73 series, $1.00 
8:30 theatre, you're a good man charlie brown, little theatre, $2.00 

at nd-smc 

Campus roundup 


Commencement finalized 
A schedule of events for St. Mary's Commencement program has been released by Debbie Carvatta, Senior Class President. The schedule runs : 
You will receive six tickets, four in the auditorium and two for close-circuit viewing, together with 15 announcements. 
The gowns must be paid for when picked up. The announcements were paid for as part of the graduation fee. 
Any SMC senior who is graduating from Notre Dame and would like to attend SMC's com­mencement should contact Kathy Murphy (4537, P.O. Box 802) on or before March 4th. The number of seats is limited and tickets will be distributed on a first come-first served basis. They can be picked up at the bookstore '>n Wednesday, May 17th. 
Ticket reservations for You're A 
Good Man Charlie Brown have 
been sent to all senior parents. 
Any questions should be ad­
dressed to Debbie Carvatta (phone 
4101, P.O. Box 182). 
Beerslayer chase 
Saturday afternoon, the renowned Notre Dame Beer­slayer will seek to elude dozens of thirsty pursuers in An Tostal's first Beerslayer chase. 
Last night Terry "Scoop" Madden, the event's ad­ministrator, announced the rules governing the event: 
HELD OVER 
SECOND WEEK 
•·• .. ·.J 
~
307 ~ MI(H ST 
··,. 211-7100• • 
GREEN 
People ncm 1 ... 
lnttwyvar 2022. 

1) The Beerslayer will be given a 15-minute head start. 
2) Four man teams will then be given one hour to capture the ribbon attached to the Beerslayer. 
3) Upon capturing the ribbon, the quartet must return the ribbon to the chase starting point on the An Tostal field. 
4) The Beerslayer is prohibited from •entering any campus buildings. 
5) ( The boundaries of the chase are: 
a) 
north: dirt road to St. Mary's 

b) 
east: Juniper Road 

c) 
south: road running from stadium to golf course 

d) 
west: _Highway 31 


For further details, contact Madden at 272-9692. 
Arts festival 

The first Festival of the Arts to 
be sponsored by Free University 
will begin this Tuesday, May 1st, 
and run through Sunday, May 6th. 
Student actors, poets, dancers, 
musicians, and singers will be 
performing on the South Quad 
during the lunch hour, and 
throughout the late afternoon and 
early evening each day. In case of 
.... -.............. . RIVER PARK 
.................... 
MIIMAWAitA AYI. Ar lOrN 

Hurry! Ends Thurs. 

"Pete•ft'Tillie" 
········All about •-• and ,_rriogel······· AUnrvers.al PICture· T«hn.cokH'4 P1111VtStOn• ~ 
starts friday 


rain, the events wil be held in the fieldhouse. 
Fieldhouse party 
The 75th anniversary of the fieldhouse will be celebrated by a birthday party in the fieldhouse Saturday night beginning at 6:00. 
The celebration, sponsored by the Art Department, will include Citizen Kane and other movies, refreshments and live musical entertainment. Everything is free. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester e11cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Boll Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

RANDALL'S INN TRAVELODGE 

Nothern Indiana's Favorite Meeting Place 
Presents 

JEAN SUMNER, vocalist at the ORGAN and PIANO 
an 


THE HARP PUB 

Every Tuesday through Saturday starting at 8 PM 
130 DixieWay South South Bend, Indiana Phone 272-7900 





WithTWA 
itpaystobeyoung. 
TWA's got a lot of things to help you in a lot ofways around the U.S. and Ernope. But nothing comes close to the adventure­some brave blockbuster Worldtrek exp& ditions (arranged exclusively through TWA). 
Worldtrek. 
This isn't a vacation, it's an experience. From two weeks trekking the · of Scandinavia to 12 weeks on a to Kashmir. You'll find camping with nomadic reindeer herdsmen, or boating across the Black Sea to Yalta. 
For the exciting details, go to your TWA Travel Agent, Ticket Office, or Campus Rep.-or the coupon below . 
.-------------., 
11WA-"'TPAYSTOBEYOUNG," SSS5 I I Box 25, Grand Central Station, N.Y., N.Y.l0017 I Please send me information on the following:
I Worldtrek Stut.elpass*I Destination Europe Pack I Name 
I AddressI

I City State 
L-----~-------.1 
for more information 
Call Dan Sheehan 283-3610 
TWA campus Representative 
Bonus Coupon Books I 
Overnit.e Pass*  I  
Bed and Breakfast*  
I  
Zip  III  



. of'' .. ,... J 1,. 

Friday, April 27, 1973 
3 

New problems confrOnt Library 
by James Gresser staff of the University Library are 
Staff Reporter organized into a Technical Ser­
vices Divison, a Public Services ­
<Part I of a Division, and a Division of College 
three-part series) and Deaprtment Libraries. 
The titles of these divisions 
The bookstore used to sell identify the services of (1) buying postcards with pictures of the and incorporating books into the library on it, calling it the "largest collection; 2) making the collec­University library" in the country. tions available for use; and (3) The concept of the untouchable providing for the unique needs of the services the library are in­
greatness of the library is, the colleges of Science and creasing or decreasing in meetinghowever, a myth. As Mr. David E. Engineering. 
those needs.

Sparks, the Director of University The staff Service Decreasing?
Libraries has often said, "That's A service of the library, without Mr. Sparks feels the services are not the library; the library is in­which it could not survive, is the 
not decreasing and he and his staff side." staff. Consisting of thirty-four are working to insure that they do
According to Sparks, the Library Library Faculty and ap­not. In recent years the
is faced with a book costs rising at proximately non-faculty of library
80 organization the has a rate of almost 12 percent a year members, the library staff has a been made more eficient. One
while the Library budget has tremendous work load. The problem,henoted, was that, untilremained relatively static. The complexity of the clerical work last Febrary, the post of Assistant
effect is that the library's status as needed to organize 1,016,000 books Director for Technical Sers 
was 

a research collection has been into a tractable array is only one vacant. Since Robert Havlik, who
called into serious question. The aspect of that task. Forexample, comes from Nova University withLibrary must reconcile, as Sparks for every book on the shelves there an extensive backg,round in inputs it, "the changing times with are at least five cards in the card 
computers, assumed the ALUMNI CLUBan unchanging budget." catalog. Sparks added that after position, the
At the present time of financial the staff has wrestled with the have been remedied. 
! 

"belt tightening" throughout the 
I

complicated problem of a logical Sparks feels that Mr. Havlik is FRI. NIGHT SPECIALS 
I

University, the problems facing array they must then put the books 
"eminently qualified" in the Rum & Coke -40 cents 
I

the Library become more severe in a practical working set-up. techincal aspects of acquiring and 7 & 7's _ 40 cents
than ever. While the University "Sheer quantity, detail and cataloguing new books and hasAdministration has not allowed the 
I

complexity are the core of our greatly increased efficiency in that Don't Miss ... Happy Hour 4 -5:30 15 cent beers
Library to greatly drop in the problem." It is also the staff's role area. "If we were to experience a
quality of its services, the needs of to see that needed books are ob­
l

diminution of services," Sparks SAT. NIGHT
the community, the cost of running tained, set the new books onto the 
I

said, "it would be because of cost PRE-WAKE SPECIAL:
the library and of the available shelves, and help the people and budgeting problems." 
I

library materials demand more looking for information to find it. 
I

Some areas of library operation Bloody Mary's 2 for $1.00 7. 9 p.m.
appropriate action. A very important staff position is 
i

which Sparks feels could be R C k 0 t All N"t L
In order to understand klly the that of Assistant Director for 1 
I

current situation of the Library, it definitely handled more effectively 
i•~~~~~um;Qia;;n~d-~oiiiiie-ii4iiiciieinmsj;i;-Mi~ii;e~;;o;n;g;;;;;;;;;;;WII
Technical Services. In this office, are the purhcasing of periodicals, l.i
is important to know what services 
presently filed by Robert J. library security, and the expansion l
the Library provides, how they are Havlik, lies the responsibility of of non-book library servies. 
I

maintained and utilized, how the getting books and getting them into Serials and the Budget 
I

Notre Dame Library stands in the sytem. Mr. Havlikoversees, Every year, according to 
AlAR'Srelation to other libraries, what the 
therefore, the Acquisition Sparks, serials occupy a larger ILibrary must do in the future and Department, Catalog Department, and larger part of the library
of course how the library answers and the Serial Department. l 
the question of financial support. The next important divison the budget; in the current year the . F .I R t 
In a series of interviews last week, amoung is 43.2 percent of the : Bi9 Boy amI y e s a u r a 
I

Division of ublic Servies. Headed budget and next year it will rise toMr. Sparks carefully examined by Assistant Director Dr. George 
47.6 percent of the total book .
those question.s' E. Sereiko this division includes budget, or over $214,000. Such • ; Servies Provided the Reference and Bibliography 
increases are totally inconsistent : :.
According to Dr. Sparks, Department and the Collection with a barely chaning book budget. :: 
Now in your area
"University libraries are curious Management Department, The forseeable problem is that : places." As soon as you begin to responsible for the management of soon all funds might be going : speak of the main commodity, the the array of books in the stack 
towards serials and none to aid : 52860 U.S. 31 Northbook, you run into certain basic tower of the Memoral Library. 
books.

problems, one of which is the Also in this division is the College Serials, periodicals and journals engineering problem of dealing Library. The specific role the are the most expensive forms ofwith the high weight con­College Library plays in student publication and their cost has also 
centrations of the books them­life is to support the course work of had the sharpest rise. Because ofselves, another in the sheer the University, both graduate and this, and also because of seriousquantity and variety of library undergraduate. For graduate U.S. currency devaluations, therematerials. Along with mass of research the needs .are different is an acute need for carefulmaterials, theLibrary, consisting of than for undergraduate studies reevaluation of priorities in suchthe Memorial Library and the six and therefore the purpose of the subscritptions.
college or departmental branches, College Library is to be what Because of the nature of serial must also handle microfilm texts, Sparks calls "an intensive use subscriptions, the amoung paid out audio material and films. collection." Within the College one year has. to be available to beThe university library has two Library there is also the public paid out ineachsucceeding year, asbasic missions: the support of the service provision of comfortable well. As subscription rates do notteaching and of the research in the places for the student to study. 
remain static, additional funds are university. Recent studies of the The staff is then further divided needed for price increases. One libraries at Cambridge and Oxford among the departmental libraries example of such increases are confirm these objectives as in Mathematics, Life Sciences, some German periodicals which primary. The services which the Physics and Chemistry, 
have tripled their subscriptionUniversity Library attempts to Engineering, Geology, and Ar­rates in the past year. Also, if the provide at Notre Dame are chitecture. The Law Library is an Library purhcases a new sub­directed towards these goals. entity completely separate from scription, there is need for backIn a functional sense, the ac­the other University Libraries. 
copies to complete the set and if an tivities of the Library are The library organization is 
old subscription is canceled thatorganized into efforts of collection designed to meet efficiently and completeness is sacrificed.
building, collection use, and effectively the educational needs There are two possible solutions 
special services to science and of the students. The next question engineering. For this reason the that must beaked is whether or not 
(continued on p. 4) 

ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 
Sophmores may start placing ring ord&rs April 24, 1973 
Hours: 9:00am to 4:30 pm Mon.-Fri. in office on second floor of 
Craig Kapson or Lois Tranter 
JORDAN MOTORS 259-1981
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
l 

........--------------------------------------------------~·"1 

the observer 1Friday1 April 271 1973 

Library facing new d;Jemma 
(continued from p. 3) 
to the serial problem: get more money, or be more selective and thoughtful in periodical purchases. Due to the imporbability of any substantial budget increases in the very near future, Mr. Sparks and his staff are working with the 
Green tohighlight 
the last concert 
of ND Jazz Band 
On Monday, April 30th the Notre Dame Jazz Band will present their final concert of the year at 8:00 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
"Directions in Jazz" will feature 
both the Notre Dame Jazz Band 
and the NDJB Combo, with em­
phasis on student soloists Iand 
compositions. 
Special guest at dst for this concert will be alto saxophonist Bunky Green. Green is a well­known jazz artist in the Chicago area who has played with Charlie Mingus groups and is currently teaching saxophone and leading the jazz band at Chicago State University. He will perform with both the Combo and the big band. 
Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C., Director of NDJB noted the progress of the band during its first year: "I was very gratified with our performance at the recent Collegiate Jazz Festival. During the past months every per­formance has seen the groups improve and we are excited about this concert especially with Bunky Green playing with the band and combo." 
The program will present a varied fare ranging from Basie­style\ swing to rock, from thick testured big band writing to avant garde free form group im­provisation and interfeeding, from blues (sung and played) to bop and beyond-all blended into an en­tertaining concert for all. 
Soloists from NDJB will include Nick Talarico and Don Banas on trombone; Fedele Volpe and Bill Zak on trumpet; Charles Rohrs and Matt Brandes on saxophone; Mike Nickerson on bass; John Yakacki and Neil Gillespie on piano; Jeff Noonan and Bob Guerra on guitar; Mike Kendall on drums and Juan Rivera on vocals and conga drum. 
Doors will open at 7:30p.m. for this concert with an admisstion charge of $1.00 at the door. 
......."AI! ....tv~...!-'-.. TICKETS ~ILABLE AT--AUDITauuM BOX OfFICE 12... 5 JIM MILY-IMDOM~ BDOIC STOlE THE CRYPT R£Ciml)S M4tl BOO GU.-Rf.(J)ItOS 
second alternative. He has met with a number of the teaching faculty about a more prudential method of ordering scholarly journals which might dispell the loose notion that, as Mr. Sparks put it, "anybody who asks for something ought to get it." He feels that in the future the Library's resources in this area must be husbanded better. 
Special Collections Part of the way the library meets the needs of the University is the requisition of quality books and 
serials. One special aspect of this role is the Department of Special Collections. their extensive in­formation pools on specific topics 
the Library provides an op­portunity for research not available at other universities. These collections are built to a great extent by donations, but some of the expansion is funded by 
Chishol1n to deliver lecture on Monday
New York Congresswoman and nationally known feminist Shirley Chisholm will deliver the final State of Life in America Lecture on Monday, April 30 at 8:00 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Ms. Chisholm was elected to the 

_91st Congress from the Twelfth Congressional District, centering in Bedford Stuyvesant, New York 1Clty. She has been a member of the Veterans Mfairs Committee, and, in the 92nd Congress, the House Education and Labor Committee. Chisholm is also chairwoman to the Military Mfairs Committee of the Congressional Black Caucus. • 
Chisholm is also affiliated with the League of Woman Voters, the Democratic Womans I Workshop, the Brooklyn Branch NAACP, and the National Advisory Council for 
Paul Newman in 
COOL HAND 

LUKE 
Engineering Auditorium 7, 9, ll p.m. Tonight! 

$1.00 
the Library's budget.j 
One of the tfinest collections is the Dante Collection. llection ·is one of the most complete in the world and is supported by many donors, including Pope Paul Vlsome collections, such as~ the Jacques Maritain Collection, were ··tained entirely as a gift and have various stipulations attached to their use. The Maritain Collection, for example, must be maintained in a place separate from the rest of the book stacks. 
The list of special collections includes the International Sports and Games Collection, Catholic Authors, and Private Presses. There are also the collections which are a very active part of an academic department such as the Medieval Institute with the Am­brosiana Collection funded by the 
(continued on p. 5) 

the Institute for Studies in Education at Notre Dame, among
others. 
The lecture is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Com­mission, the Graduate Student Union, and the Law School. 
-----~~~~~~~~~~~ 

WHAT'S YOUR GIRL BACK HOME DOING TONIGHT? 
Long distance still is the next· best thing to being the~. And you can save 



Observer Staff 

Pick up Party tickets from editors Party is May 1. 
Announcing SMC Coffeehouse 
9-2 

Featuring Saga Special Pete Snake Hot Fudge Sundaes Buck and John hoagie sandwiches 


ATTENTION: 
All Students Interested in Health Services 
The Preprofessional Advisory Committee is now considering applications for next year. Ap­plications may be obtained at the Preprofessional Office. All applications should 
be submitted by May 4. 
Frank Banfield 288-0803 Tim Hayes 283-6294 


Friday, April 27, 1973 the observer 
5 

Coffeehouse features hoagies. sundaes. music 
and Frank Martin, Buck and John, ND-SMC area, drawing crowds of formal head of the committee. Its coordinators are anxious by David Rust 
John Yakacky, ·and Pete Snake. 100 to 150 students and faculty each about its future. The committee is 
working to get more pillows andStaff Reporter evening, according to coor­St. Mary's student government

Saga, the Saint Mary's food dinators .. and college administration have other furnishings, and checkingThe SMC Coffeehouse con­service organization, will be contrary to earlier Observer into the possiblility of having a
tributes its share to Frivolous suggested through recent actions
dispensing hot fudge sundaes at 13 senior art major redesign andFriday activities this evening in reports, the Coffeehouse is not that they are convinced of the
cents apiece and hoagie sand­
the coffeeshop below the dining affiliated with Campus Ministry. present and future value of the paint the coffeeshop walls as a
wiches at 25 cents. 
senior but

hall with a list of several top-flight Complete operation and main­Coffeehouse. When Kinney and Fr. thesis next year, its entertainers and two Saga food The SMC Coffeehouse is a ser­tenance of the Coffeehouse is Cormier appeared before the main concern is to contact 
vice that began as a suggestion conducted by St. Mary's students government earlier this month volunteers to help run operations.
specials. 
Entertainment begins at 9 and from St. Mary's Campus Ministry Lisa Kinney, Anne O'Connell, asking· for $400 funding, the got Volunteers should call Kinney at runs until 1:30 or 2 am. Per­early this semester and has quickly Janet Harrington and Kathleen $500. And college president Ed­4265. Willing enertainers or per­forming for patrons will be the developed into one of the most McGugan. ward Henry gave the Coffeehouse sons with ideas sre also en­Walter Brown group, Bob Tracy popular Friday night spots in the · Fr. Roger Cormier serves as committee permission to use any r.ouraged to call this number. 
unmarked furniture in storage for 
But this evening, these concerns the commttee's purooses. 
are of secondary importance. 

Library laces neW" role 
C00RSES FOR HOII-EIIGIKEERIIC) MAJORS 

'L'he College of Engineering is offering several co';"'Ses ~n the Fall,
Multi-media services 
1973 s ... cster, wn:ich are designed for the non-engineer1.ng IMJOr.
(continued from page 4) The Library is also widely The need for expansion of non­
AE 213: SPACE TECH!l()L(X;Y -APPLICATIONS AND EFFECTS ON WR SOCIETY
utilized by doctors, nurses
Kress Foundation, and the Area book, library services must also be
clergymen, members of the 
Dr. Ingram. Seq. llo. 710100, ll IIWF (3-0-3)
Studies Program funded by the tackled by the Library ad­
Mayor's staff, etc. and Sparks 
A survey of the space sciences vith a discussion in the appro­
Ford Foundation. Another unique ministration. To increase audio 
priate cont<»Ct of proqress that has been .ode and its i.Dpact on Societ:y.
feels such use is perfectly valid
collection is the University Ar· materials, films and especially 
ConsideNtion of future investigations.
and . should be part of the
chives which contain valuable microtexts is important to the 
CE 213 : ~D\:1 AND HIS E!l\rrRCI'!:·IENT
University's service to the com­
documents on the history and maintaining of a good quality 
Dr. Tenney, Seq. lio. 7070700, · l KiF (3-0-3)
munity. The University costs for
development of Notre Dame as well library but it takes a great deal of 
This course is do;!si~ to intToduce the student to the inter­
library service are about three 
as notable collections on the funds. For example, the best, most 
action ;K:t\'J:!Cn tech.aol~y (man) and nature, and to eraphasize the problems
hundred dollars per capita 
when this hal~nced intCraction is disturbed.
history of the Church in America efficient method of making audio
(students, faculty and staff) for the 
especially the personal papers of texts available is not, as is 
EE 213: i-!Ail 1\JiD t:t:ERGY -All ALTERNATIVE TO THE ATOM
use of the library. Sparks feels
General William Tecumpseh presently the case in the Library, 
Dr. Berry, Seq. No. 781100, 2 TT 4 (3~0-3)
that, if outsiders other than
Sherman. the use of phonograph records. 
A survey of the energy reQuirements-past, present, and prqject.ed
community service personnel have 
future. A discussion of the various sources of energy necessary f~r ..an's
The preferred method is to useThe casual way the Notre Dame 
e:istence and the potential decisions for preservation of the spec1es.
a need for the library, they too tapes. In the long run, changingUniversity Library is used by non­should be required to pay such a 
EX; 211: DITROOOCTION TO COMPIJTIIIG, I 
from records to tapes save a greatNotre Dame-St. Mary's people fee. This type of controlled access, 
(3-0-3)

Seq. No. 701060, 1 HWF
deal of money as well as increasecould eventually turn the Library however, would demand increases 
Introduction to computer programming using ~tch and reroote te~nal
the preservation of recorded sound. 
into what Sparks calls a "public 
processing Algorithms, the fortran and Basic progran~~Ung 1aft9uages, SOlutwn
in the number of security per­To make the switch from recordsservice facility for everybody in 
of mnerical and non-n\.lilerical problems.
sonnel and equipment. 
to tapes however would mean a 
(This course will also be offerEd during the 1973 SU11111ler Session,
Northern Indiana." Given its 
Library security capital investment the Library is 
Seq. llo. 702001, 8 MTWTF.)
primary missions in support of Anuther service that is not at the simply not able to make at theteaching out research, this is 
HE 213: IMPACT OF NUCLE:I\R ENERGY 00 OUR SOCIETY
level Mr. Sparks would like to present time. A related problem issomething it simply cannot afford 
Dr. Lucey, Seq. No. 740100, 2 HWF (3-0-3)
attain but, again, is restricted by
to do. The problem is that students the need for expansion of 
Prerequisites: 1 year of college math, l semester of any S<?-ience.
the budget is library security or 
An overviC\·1 of the sources and uses of nuclear energy for those who Wl.ll not­
microtext material. "I haven't got from any other universities in the more specifically, access to the 
specialize in the area. Biological effects of radiation and socioeconondc
the money or the capital," Sparks area are using the Notre Dame 
considerations are treated.
building and avoidance of theft or pointed out, "to purchase the textsLibrary instead of their own mutilation of the collections. 
as well as the necessary microfilm 
The following courses in the offerings of the .DeJ>art-ent of Architecture
because of its large collections. 
The "rip-off" problem 
are open to all students, unless otherwise specified.
readers, rooms, etc."
The result is that books and study Problems of theft also face the 
space are denied Notre Dame In spite of these problems,
Library administration and the 
Arch 144: IJF.SICII THE!l!.Y
Sparks is quite confident that thestudents. The Library staff is more answers are not simple. "The rip­
(3-0-3)

Seq. Ho. 730460 ' 9lljF
needs of the Library can and willthan willing to assist other schools off rate," Mr. Sparks noted, "is 
The ar<'a of physical and U.ter-disciplinary relAtionships as it affects
be met by the University Ad­if there is a need the other schools growing, but to take technical 
""'" and hir. cnviron:ocnt vill be explored. Study of basic desiCJ11 theory
simply cannot meet but it would be ministration. The University, he 
fror.1 t:hich \·.'f"!'k in .!~::ir~n is d'"•·JclOpCll will constitute a aethcc!ical study
steps like electronic surveillance 
of th'l cffu:~ of taatcl•i.ll:;, cl..i&.l;;e, anJ orientation upon architecture
more advantageous for all con­feels, will not allow its Library to
would show distrust toward the 
and"""''" a!'tifacts.
lower its standard. He realizescerned if students at other schools students." He feels that students that funds are a problemused their own library services to 
Arch 541: nm:oDUCTro;: '!'0 DNn:c::rc OCSICII
are basically very responsible and throughout the University and hetheir full extent before coming to 
Seq. No. 733(·00, l Tu 5 (1-0-3)
finds the problem hard to solve feels the Administration is doingNotre Dame for the service only 
Open to Juniors, seniors and gNduate stud.,ts; an introduction to tho conc<!pt of cnvironic conditions as t:hC discipline which ..st influence
because, "I'm not here to be a its best in being equitable to theNotre Dame can supply. An im­policeman ... I'm here to help and 
design.
Library.

proved security system could be complete their education.. In the implemented to see that only those Library, you have to rely on their Monday: A closer look at the of our neighbors with good cause basic good sense. After all, it's budget and the lib1 ary's status as a use the Notre Dame Library. 
their Library not mine." research library. 
1 I
I 
I 


~ 

Yago ~ 
Fill in an application SANGRIA~,, 
for TWA Getaway Card 
fifth $1.99 

and receive one








J--------8.1 
ANTIQUE I 
I 
FREE BEER
BOURBON 
at the Senior Bar
1hgal. $1 0.98 



TONIGHT 
For More Information 10% Discount by the Case 
Call Dan Sheehan 361 0 
I 
I I l

TOWN & COU-NTRY RIVERPARK
*Keg Beer 

I I I
*Best Beer LI.QUOR LIQUOR 
Applications available at
Prices In Town & c Shoppinq Center 2411 Mish. Ave. *Wine Cellar The Notre Dame Party Cente1 s 
Senior Bar and Travel Bureau 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief 

Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 

Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos Advertising Manager
Business Manager BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Friday, April 27, 1973 

A Good Report 
In the middle section of today's Ob· server, there is a special supplement dedicated to the renovation of LaFortune Student Center. The renovation plans are the result of many hours of work put in by Ken Knevel, Rozanne Jabbra, and Ron Blitch. For their work, their desire, and their imagination in this project they should be thanked and congratualted by all the students of Notre Dame. 
Hopefully, in the near future, their work and their final plans will be in· corporated into action. With luck, Note Dame will soon see it's Student Center renovated into a facility that can truly be considered viable. 
As it stands now, LaFortune is rarely used. The reason is twofold. One, the facilities of the center are antiquated and unusable in their present form. Second, the focus of most social activity and leisure time for students is centered in the halls. 
The philosophy for the center that the committee has drawn up explains best why those two problems should be taken care of. 
First, they emphasize that the building must be "opened up." In this way, it will become more flexible-easier to use and more appropriate for a diverse number of 
activities. However, as it is now, the 
building has become a place of study and 
not of activity and as the philosophy 
states, the center must become the 
community center of the university. That 
implies activity and that necessitates 
flexibility. 

Second, despite the fact that the halls are now and will remain to be the center of leisure activity on campus, the need for a community center, and activities center on campus is pressing and LaFortune does not fill that need. With renovation, LaFortune will not necessarily fill that void. It is not a sure panacea to social and leisure activities at Notre Dame. But renovation will in­crease the liklihood of a bettering of these atmospheres. 
Next wee~. this report will be presented to the Trustees and hopefully they will view it. favorably. It must be considered seriouslybecause it is a proposal which could greatly aid student life at Notre Dame in the coming years. It should be presented to the board with the students' complete support. 
Jerry Lutkus 

Editor: the radio, get the coffee, do au theFor those of your readers who pai)erwork, and keep an eye openare interested either in historical for conflicting traffic, but he willaccuracy or in trivia, may I point have as much chance to fly thatout that the junior birdman pic­aluminum cloud as a Bedouin hastured in the Air Foree recruiting to swim across the Sahara.
advertisement on page 4 of today's Of course, I can understand the(April 25) Observer does not, in reluctance of the Air Force to
P.O. 
fact, "manage a multi-million display the photograph of a realdollar plane," and is not a member genuine left-5eat pilot. The aura ofof "the fraternity of supersonic scintillating dazzle surroundingmen in positions of real leader­
Box Q 
such supermen is simply tooship." He is a mere co-pilot, the brilliant for most mere mortals tolowest of the low, riding right seat behold.
shotgun. The pilot, if he· is a generous sort, may permit this Cordially,creature to kick the tires before 
Bob Kerby
take-()ff, read the checklists, raise formerly Captain, USAFand lower the gear and flaps, work 
the observer 
Night Editor: Joe Abell 
Assistant Night Editors: Bill Brink, Maria Gallagher Day Editor: Bill Sohn Pictures: Jerome Phillips Typists: Diane Chermside, Dave Rust, Tom Modglin, Steve Roper•\ Phil Orscheln 
Night Controller: Rob Barringer 
Maft911'11 Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: AnthOny Abowd 
Edltw..l Editor: ButCh Ward FHturn Edltw: Beth Hall SMC Edltw: Marie Gallagher Sports Edltw: VIc Dorr Win Edltw: Tom Drape 
......,. EdHW: ,Jim Hunt 
~.... Edltllr: Rod 8r11yoe 


Canservative 
Will She Always? 

jim nap-.. 
Seven Justices of the Supreme Court decided last February a fetus is not protected by the constitution of the United States. This Supreme Court ruling announced a new position on "potential" human life. Henceforth, a fetus is a conglomerate of cells and shall not be entitled to the rights of an American citizen. 
By implication the court's majority ruling means henceforth America shall not accord the same respect to all types of human life While some types of human life shall be considered persons and qualify for the protection provided by the Bill of Rights, other types of human or "human-related" life shall be considered conglomerates of cells possessing no constitutional rights. 
According to the Supreme Court, since a fetus is only a conglomerate of cells bearing only a coincidental similarity to true human form, the individual bearer of the fetus (here-to-fore called the "mother") may dispose of this growth within her body at will until the sixth month of pregnancy. After the second trimester, the court continues, the bearer of the fetus must obtain from a physician verification the fetus poses a threat to either the mental or physical health of the bearer. If this verification is obtained, the bearer may terminate her pregnancy up until the 270th day of fetushood. 
Perhaps in the Supreme Court Justices' majority opinion, the distinguished jurists could have argued for their decision by com­paring a fetus with a tumor. A fetus, the Justices could have argued, is little more than an appendage attached to the bearer of the fetus and dependent upon the bearer for its life. This appendage grows and imbibes the life of the bearer, potentially imparing the bearer's psychic and physical well-being. Since this appendage is not really human life but only an excess, parasitic part of the bearer's body, the bearer may discard this appendage virtually whenever she pleases. 
This situation is not unlike that of a victim of a tumor. A tumor is a human-life related appendage, somewhat similar to a fetus. A tumor's existence, like that of a fetus during the first six months of pregnancy, is dependent on the person within which it is living. A tumor, like a fetus, often endangers the mental health of its host. Statistics verify there exists a tendency for a person to become mentally disturbed upon learning he or she is the bearer of a malignant tumor. 
Another characteristic common to both a tumor and a fetus is that both threatent the physical life of the bearer_ Statistics unequivocally prove that individuals with malignant tumors have a shorter life expectancy than persons without malignant tumors. Thus, since a tumor is so similar to a fetus, the wisdom of the law possesses no alternative but to treat both conglomerations of cells similarly. 
Now what else is a conglomerate of cells, dependent on others and often tending to cause severe mental damage? 
Maybe, the day shall come when other forms of humanrelated life shall not enjoy the consitutional rights the seven majority Justices of the Supreme Court currently enjoy. An observer might claim, "That type of thing can never happen because America has always been so far away from that type of thing." Indeed, America always has been. Will she always? 
Dpinian Out to See D.T. 

r.thamasthu.. 
My name is 711911584. I do not exist in the eyes of the law. I am also called 4-133-53-1327. . . Again, I do not exist. I exist as A767210 in Mishawaka, but some of my South American friends cannot exist because the driver's license bureau has not given them a number. 
Itseems that society, with it's psuedo numbered labels, has trapped its members in a maze of inconsistencies. What is law in the make­believe world of Notre Dame is myth in the outside world. What is legal in one establishment is deemed invalid in the eyes of another establishment. Because of the legal numbers game so-ealled invalid Notre Dame students are not allowed to experience the great fount of aesthetics offered in such places as Mishawaka, Goshen, and Elkart. As a result ap evening in the lives of four Notre Dame students can end up somewhat unsatisfied. 
The four of us, brave Notre Dame students all, started the trek to Mishawaka one cold and snowing Tuesday night. We had heard of a history making film of great aesthetic value at the Cinema Art Theater an wanted to widen our cultural horizons. 
We arrived at last, pulled down the collars of our N.D. jackets, and took out ten cents a minute. Remembering the exclusive nature of the high class dives, we remove9 two I.D. cards: Notre Dame Iden­tification Card and United States Draft Card. 
Everything would have come out fine and our aesthetic desires would have been satisfied, but we forgot one detail. Notre Dame I.D's and U.S. Draft cards are not legal at Mishawaka fine art theaters. Disappointed and unfulfilled we went to I the high class book store adjoining the Cinema Art. Our I.D's were apparently good enough for quality literature. 
We browsed for ten or fifteen minutes. I guess we weren't ready for so much culture, in full color, all at once. We didn't buy anything. Leaving the old men and vagrants who, as you well know, are known for their aesthetic taste, we were relieved of 50 cents browsing fee and braved lhe Mishawaka winter once again. Our ride had not arrived. 
Cold. hungry, and ripped off we entered the local refreshment establishment. Not being of drinking age in the great state of Indiana we ordered a pizza without the refreshment. The pizza was presented to us piping cold from the shelf along with a request for 21 ID.'s. Having only our illegal Notre Dame cards (which were under 21 anyway) we were forced to eat the Italian delicacy outside on the hood of a '65 Chevy, with one headlight. 
Two pieces of pizza and two dollars a piece later we started toward the corner where our ride would be waiting. After twenty minutes and a questionably aesthetic proposition from a local Mishawaka resident our ride came. Somehow we made it back to campus and the warmth of our dorm rooms. 
Now the only reason I'm telling you this story is because you may be hard-up for some aesthetic entertainment some Tuesday evening. MLy only solution to your social deprivation is to go to the Huddle, buy a hot dog, and put "Stuck in the Middle with You" on the Juke Box. It's much more aeatetic. 

--------------~------------------------------------­

The LaFortune student center has suf­fered many years from the lack of students use due to its inability to satisfy the student in facilities and function. Originally,. conceived through renovation, LaFortune will experience a resssurection this summer as renovation plans are once again initiated. 
Barring exageration, they are past due. 
Possibilities for a student center first materialized in 1953 when Fr. Hesburgh announced a $135,000 gift from an Oklahoma oilman to be used for the initiation of a student center. 
Joseph LaFortune made the donation to provide specifically a center on the campus for students. Since the Science building had been replaced by the . Nieuwland Science Hall, it was chosen as the structure for renovation. LaFortune, a 1916 graduate who received an honorary degree in 1949, is presently an honorary member of the Board of Trustees. A South Bend native, he resides in Tulsa. 
Although the principal designs were done by Frank Montana and Robert Schultz of the Architecture department, ideas and plans were first brought forth bya contest among senior architecture students. A fifty dollar prize was offered. 
The principal objective of Schulz and Montana was to satisfy demands of students for facilities to hold ballroom dances and to meet. An off-campus room was also in­cluded. 
Renovations, which were begun in the summer of 1953, faced completion in mid­November. The LaFortune Student Center was then officially dedicated during a ceremony after the Notre Dame -Iowa football game on November 21, 1953. 
Except for the addition of the Huddle to the rear of the building, LaFortune, com­plete with the original furnishings of a White House interior decorator has remained untouched since its dedication. 
Twenty years later, however, a com­mittee formed at first to challenge the functions of the center, the Committee for LaFortune, has successfully brought forth plans to renovate the facilities and the function. 
Due to the Committee's efforts, the plans you see on the following pages will soon be 
reality. Up Renovation.  n'  coming:  The  LaFortune  
Tom Drape Senior Reporter  

staff: 
Executive Editors: Dan Barrett, Art Ferranti 
Reporters: Tom Drape, Dave•Rust, Mike Baum Photographer: Jim Hunt Layout Assistant: Tom Drape 



the symbol 
This little boy longing for the apple with such an honest look of inn~ence comes from the short book The Giving Tree by Shel Silverstein. Composed mostly of illustrations, this short work simply tells the story of the love of a little boy and a tree who loved him. 
The boy would come and play, climb the tree, sleep under its branches, and eat its apples, And the tree was glad for it. Then the boy grew up and, in the vein of the old song "Puff the Magic Dragon", forgot the tree. He returned to the tree at varying times, once to take all its apples to sell for money, next to take the branches to build a house, and then to cut down the trunk to make a boat. And each time the tree was happy to give what it could to the boy (even as an old man, the character is still referred to as a boy). 
Finally as an aged man, the boyreturns to visit the stump. The stump is sad that she (the tree is female) cannot give more to the boy. But now all the boy needs is a place to sit and rest. With pride and great hap­piness, the stump reared itself up straight. The boy sat. "And," to quote the final line, "the tree was happy." 
So, to the threemembers of Architects, Inc. with whose efforts the reader will become acqu ·ainted in the following pages, the renovation of LaFortune has been a labor of love, one of always giving in the hope that their efforts will be rewarded. Perhaps they will not be fulfilled this year, norlthe next. But like the tree, they and those who follow• will keep giving. We hope they will not have to do so for long. 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 

.........._________________________________________ 
The proposed changes 
:, 
.t 
~ 
l \ 
I 
j 
\ 
i ( 
c 
r 
f 
( 
~­
( 
t' 
( 
f 
\ 
i 
t 
( 
t 
( 
l, 
' 
l 
r 
~ 
LJ------------------------------------···--­
by Michael Baum 
Senior Reporter 
Proposed changes in the Lafortune Student Center---1lesigned by Renovation architects to make the building more livable--<:over everything from such minor details as r.arraJRmg, furniture to such major projects as reaesigning the Huddle and opening a new food service. 
Irish Pub 
A student entering the basement of the revamped center through the present Rathskeller will walk through one of the major innovations-the Pub. Focusing around a central "bar" and a complete kitchen facility, the Pub will occupy the current Rathskeller space. Completely redecorated, wall booths and tables in the facility will seat 350 to 400 students "with nn crowding." 
Kitchen 
The kitchen will occupy an existh.g­although unused-eoke-bar facility ano be capable of serving such things as pizzas on a better scale than the Huddle's present heat­n-serve facilities, turning the Pub into a small on-campus restaurant. 
Ron Blitch of LaFortune Renovation Architects Incorporated details other changes to the basement, designed under his supervision. 
Student offices, including student in­surance, Morrissey Loan, Minority Coun­selling and Mecha will be moved to a new suite of offices in space currently occupied by the Off-Campus office. Smilarly, the 0-C office will move to the present Dome darkrooms and the International Student's Lounge, evicted by the Pub, will be relocated in the cardroom-lounge along the southern side of the basement. 
Walking up to the first floor, the student will find the main lounge redecorated but basically unchanged. Here similarity ends. 
Tom Dooley Room An added door on the east side of the Tom Dooley Room will make a natural corridor of it, funneling traffic to the Huddle past, on the one hand, an information center-the probable new location of the Ombudsman's 

nnnnnnnnnnnnnn :J 
J

c 
c dome schotathc J
obo 
--J
~' = ~~·~· ~ --~ 
'"
~ J 
[L­

.. I, 
u~~ ..... 

0

0 
0 ban= on c-:--3 on::~ na·d 
0 

' ,.,..ch G -n 
·,~CJ~ 
¢J r_ mu-.., lOft 
"' up 
..~Y

L:·· ' ~ 
~ w~c.! 
,.,..ch 

office. On the other side (to one's right, walking toward the Huddle) a doorway opens onto the central court, separated from the main lounge by a glass partition. 
From the opposite (south) side of the court, the student can walk into still another lounge occupying space presently taken up by a small auditorium. Head !architect Ken Knevel explains that the arrangement sets up a string of rooms with increasing degrees of privacy, from the heaviliy travelled in­formation center to the secluded southern lounge. As an added touch, the information center will include a mezzanine level given over to an art gallery. 
Space for a meeting loft and a possible food COo()p is also provided on this level, in the present lounge on the southern side of the building. Major renovations are planned for the Huddle too, now judged to be a terrible place . 
A wall through the room (following the line nf pillars) will partition the food service off •rom the cross-corridor. Entering tbr >ugh the centrally located door, the sw·'"nt will find the service area halved, an . t'·.e efficiency hopefully doubled. To the lef~ wi;1 be U1e food facilities, a semi self­service design formed u-shaped in half the present space. The system is almost identical to an arrangement at Purdue University which can handle approximately 1200 customers an hour. 
A doorway to right opens to chain of two rooms for eating, taking up the other half of the present Huddle and the one existing room. 
In another innovation, the far (east) end 
of the building will open onto a terrace built 
over the pool hall facilities. Plans for the 
terrace, which is to be an added area for 
eating, are not yet final, but will probably 
call for a space half glassed-in and half 
open-air, to allow year-round use. A similar 
terrace on a smaller scale is also proposed 
for the south side of the building, opening off 
of the present eating area. First floor design 
changes are under the direction of Roxanne 
Jabbra of Architects Inc. 

Changes on the second and third floor 
levels of LaFortune were plotted with an eye 
to simplifying the locations of and access to 
student services. Student union and student, 
publication offices currently lie behind a 
system of doors and hidden stairways 
grouped over and around the "Fiesta 
linr 
1 .J 

third~ !J
floor 
Lounge." 

Knevel, who has responsibility for this part of the plans, d~tailed the proposed changes. Student service organizations will be concentrated on the second floor. A bridge will take students from the ballroom, now to be graced by a well opening over the lounge below, across the central court directly to the student services office. Walking through space presently taken up by the Fiesta Lounge, the student will enter a central reception lounge. Off to the 'right, in space now used by the Observer, will be 
the offices ot the Student Union. Expanded Student Government offices, including cabinet offices, will be off to the left, as usual. 
The crosswalk over the court will at the same time pass by the Black Cultural Arts room, moved to the southern side of the building to provide increased visability. 
At present a student wishing to reach the third floor from; say, the Huddle, must walk up one of two main· flights of stairs to the s~ond floor level, turn through a doorway, fmd a second flight of stairs, which on the south side is hidden behind still another door, and proceed up to the third floor. This is to be changed. 
Publications Floor 
The two main staircases, north and south, will be extended to the third floor level, the two back stairs removed. In the office space on the third floor will be grouped all student publications, including the Observer, the Scholastic, and the Dome. 
·-,

r--­
1 
billiards up 


_,. 'J 
b•lliarda 

c Lc I 
Lr 
c 
['1 


mech. pmg-pong
c --"~ 

L__ .
; L_ 
r·~·---~.c~-~­
.-......... --.
L .L_ _____r-_f: ~­
..,._. 



ott-campus 

rr,~
-_] 

L~
·--~-1] 
, mecha ~ 
L == 
L-~
'.,: rr ~p ~J
• 
s.tudent il 
, loan 
!=-· J 
student 
•nternattona_l 
J
1n1urance stUdents lounge -off1C8 
J 
] 
~ 
\j 
0 
'-"~ 
.1 
pub BASEMENT 
lobby storage
·~­
·~ L_/ 



.....
·~F.;--" 
. , 

stor. ••t•ng •e•
9 _j
r 
n n I 
. "' 
9
"" 
0 
,-.!-~hng•·=-----~ ~ 
:.:'""J 
_F-=. 1T:L::r:::::;-L:;;::====:'...' / · ::::....:.. -~ ---· up ___r-1 
J 
,up~
lountatn 
•... 
w ~-~ 'i["-~-;o
'-' 

tnlo. center court 0 lounge ·----~loft J
r 
.... 'I 
dn
J 1.; 
co-op ] 
:: 0 
matn 
lobby 
0 0 0 ~

' 
: ~--... ~ ~~ 
up 
r

·. 
othe~ 
[ "'""'"". ~ 
'' 

~ i. ~ c..J, ~~·. 
-....-------=---"-----------~----~--------------.. 
The renovation history 
by Tom Drape Schipp, with the cooperation of JerrySenior Reporter Lutkus, began forming the committee 
Renovating LaFortune has been a task through an ad in the Observer. From the elusive to efforts since its dedication twenty nine respondents that came forth the years ago. That is, it had been. committee for LaFortune became reality. 
The Committee for LaFortune,.conceived Schipp recalls that in an attempt to get the last fall and spearheaded by a dedicated committee off the ground, the members few, will hopefully commence restructuring decided to divide into four sub-<:ommittees: this summer. Their ultimate goal, as stated food service planning, architectural in the renovation philosophy, is to make renovation,· facilities planning, and Lafortune, "the community center fo the publicity. They 1 began studying different University, a meeting place for aU members aspects of the center as it existed. of the college: students, faculty, ad­The feasability of the renovation did not ministrators, alumni, and guests." rest on financial limits but on accurate and 
And as current committee chairman, Ken well thought out plans. As the first semester Knevel, boasts, "We are going to make it faded, this alluded the work of the com­·happen at last." mittee. Their last official action before Christmas was to join the International 
Beginnings Association of Student Unions. 
Committee formation initially resulted The Committee Reorganized from Activities at LaFortune night last September. Dave Caruso and Dan Schipp, The committee entered phase two in their organizers of the Activities night were efforts by redefining their purpose. Sub­spurred Iby the way LaForutne came to life committees were aimed at three areas: that mght. Director of Student Affairs, Dr. Philosophy, Feasabilitly, and Promotional. 
Robert Ackerman, commented that an Co-<:hairmen Terri Skeehan and Jim a prime motivating force and eventually effort to update the center would be McDermott began steering the committee's took over as Chairman. He served as profitable as well as needed. work toward these goals. Senior Ar­feasability chairman with Caruso and Shipp Acting on their own initiative,Caruso and l"hetecture student, Ken Knevel, came to be handling the philosophy and Lutkus in 
The LaFortune philosophy 
The LaFortune Student Center must be study rather than activity, of inflexibility of renovated areas. Both innovative design the community center of the University, a rather than flexibility, of formality, rather and proper color and lighting must be meeting place for all the members of the than informality, of inclosure rather than utilized effectively. college: students, faculty, administrators, opennessJJtilized by few rather than many. 2. Control -The student center exists as alumni, and guests. We recommend that the present building complementary to the principle mission of 
As the focal point of the University, the be renovated for the following reasons: the university. In support of this important student center must provide for the ser­a. Because of its location and tradition, objective, it is recommended that the vices, conveniences, and social needs of the the center, and all that it could be, offers governance of the facility be the respon­community in an a atmosphere which is excellent opportunities for development. sibility of a triparte Student Center Board both open and alive. b. It would be less expensive than con­of Stude · faculty, and administrators. 
It must encourage and facilitate informal structing a new building. Accepting their general responsibility association among members of the c. Because such renovation is struc­through the Vice President of Student Af­University.... The residence halls, because of turally feasible and would take less time to fairs, the Student Center Board specifically their size and nature, cannot adequately implement. will implement, interpret, and revise as provide for this function. Nor can other We offer these guidelines for the necessary its operational philosophy. places of student congregation such as: the renovations of LaFortune Student Center: 3. Programs -The center should be more library, dining halls. and Alumni Club 1. Atmosphere -the center must be than a building, it must also be an ongoing <Senior Bar). And because of the large opened up both physically and symbically to program. The center, its facilities, and number of off-<:ampus students, the need for the Notre Dame community A such, an programs must be feasible enough to meet a place where these students can invitingly bright and colorful atmosphere is the changing needs and diverse interests of congregate has become increasingly im­a necessity. This is most easily im7 the university. Programs will be approved portant. The existing student center has not plemented through the appropriate use of and regulated by the Control Board. achieved this goal. It has become a place of present space and the carefully planned use 4. Services -Those offices that have 
student life as their primary focus should be housed in the failities provided by the center. The specific allocation of office space is the responsibility of the Student Center Board. 
As a convenience to the University community, the Student Center can ap­propriately house a variety of services. Included at the outset should be a snack bar, a sit-down dining area, a Rathskellar pub, and a campus information and directory service. Speciality shops and other con­veniences could be added by the Student Center Board in reflection of changing community needs. 
5. Social needs -The Student Center must meet the social needs of the University, especially in light of the advent of coeducation. This can be accomplished by providing areas for: 
1. 
lobbies 

2. 
small lounges 


3. 
informal meeting areas 

4. 
outdoor playground 


5. 
billiard and ping pong areas 


Through the successful implementation of these recommendations, the LaFortune Student Center can become the living embodiment of the philosophy we have just presented. 
The LaFortune Renovation Committee 
Ken Knevel Kan Schipp Dave Caruso Sue Darin Terry Skeehan Joe Gaziano Dennis Etienne Tom Rosanelli Dante Orfei Art Quinn Tom Drape Steve Carter Rod Braye Mary Ann Gillespie Roxanne Jabbra Ron Blitch



charge of Promotional. 
Each of the sub-<:ommittees were en­
trusted to thoroughly research and then 
detail specific proposals. Dr. Ackerman, 
according to Schipp , Caruso and Knevel, 
has been instramenta.ly invaluable in the 
work of the committee and sub~ committees 
"Without a doubt, Bob Ackerman has been a 
main force and behind us from the begin­
ning," said Schipp. 
With the completion of the Philosophy for renovation in mid-February as well as the enlistment of student architects in the form of Architects, Inc., the Committee for LaFo_rtune began experiencing progress. 
Priority: A Philosophy 
Primary in the minds of the committee members, who now include Steve Carter, Susan Darin, Mary Ann Gillispie, Rod Braye, Joe Gaziano, Dennis Etienne, Roxanne Jabbra, Ron Blitch, Tom Rosanelli, Bob Stucker, Art Quinn, and Dante Orfei, was a written goal towards which to direct their work. 
The solution came from the Philosophy sub committee in their "Proposal for the Renovation of LaFortune Studer.t t::enter." Written not only to give the committee direction the philosophy also points out the background of the committee. Emphasized in the report is the need for a student center as the focus fo the university life and to meet the lacking social needs. The five guidelines were proposed to be self-fulfilling by the students. 
Architects, Inc. 
In order to uitilize talents within the 
University and handle the physical changes 
and proposals, the committee appointed 
Knevel at his own request to establish Ar­
chitects, Inc. 
Organized on a business level, the student architects are responsible for turning the committee's wildest dreams into blueprints. Their Qffice has been located on the third floor of LaFortune with a very open door policy. 
Knevel's partners, Roxanne Jabbra and Ron Blitch, are sophomore architecture students and compose with Ken, Architects, Inc. Rox has been especial in illustration and design while Ron's ~fforts have been directed towards his design talent. Knevel has been invaluable with his experience and drive. 
According to Knevel, who is presently chairmanof the committee, Architects Inc., 
I
should be an example for university 
I
priorities to follow due to their emphasis on 
I
quality rather than quanity. "Building 
I
wise, the community has stopped growing; 
now we should work on the quality of the I community," said Knevel. I Educationally, the architects have I profited as well, points out Knevel. Due to 1 the support of Dr. Richardson, chairman of I the architecture department, the three 1 architects can apply their renovation efforts I toward design credit. ~ 
"Without a doubt, there should be greater I opportunity to benefit the University community in an education aspect," notef I Knevel. I 
The architects have redesigned the center 
I 
in accordance with their philosophy. 
t 
Conceptualizations include floor plan~ artist renderings, and a detailed -modt· 
I
bringing actual construction closer. Dr Faccenda, vice president ofiStudent Affair' has described the work of the architects as well as the committee as "fantastic." 

The renovation outlook 
by David Rust Senior Reporter 
University administrators voiced varying states of praise for the architectural sket­ches and plans for renovation of the LaFortune Student Center which they examined at their officers meeting earlier this month. 
Of major significance is that the plans, drawn up by a three-student architectural committee, have been passed on by the university officers for cost determination. 
According to Ken Knevel, chairman of the group that drafted the sketches, and Vice President for Student Activities Robert Ackerman, the subject of renovation and discussion of the committee's particular renovation plans will be included on the agenda of the next meeting of the Board of Trustees sub-committee concerning student affairs. The Committee meets May 2. 
Ackerman explained the plans would then be passed on to the Board of Trustees. The Board will meet sometime later in May, 
although no established.  final  date  has as yet been  
Hesburgh  
"The  plan  the  students  brought  to  us  

looked very , very good," said University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, referring to the regular University officers meeting at which Knevel's committee presented its work. At present the renovation proposals are being "costed out," said Hesburgh, "and then they'll come back to us." "I think most of the officers were in agreement with the plans in general." 
Faccenda 
Vice President for Student Affairs Philip Faccenda, whose office is the most critical of any of the University in the progress of the plans' course of adoption, was hesitant to discuss chances for the plans' ac­ceptance. 
"I think we're at the very earliest stage of renovation," said Faccenda. "We can't even begin discussing chances for adoption until these sketches have been gone over to a greater extent." 
Faccenda did think that the "Student architects presented a tremendous set of plans," but felt it was "way too early" to give the issue the public airing through the media that would come before plans were finalized and either accepted or rejected. 
"We have to do quite a few things before that time comes," said Faccenda. "We have to figure out the basic rough cost, determine if the University can afford it, see if funds can be raised, decide whether these plans make the best use of the building, and acquaint the Student Affairs Subcommittee <of the Board of Trustees) with these 

Fr. Hesburgh 
Dr. Acllerman 
"We're not going to hammer down the 
walls right after Commencement," he 
predicted. "I can't imagine any actual work 
beginning anytime during this summer." 
The administration had first looked for 
professional architects to draft renovation 
plans, said Faccenda, but had "decided that 
our own student architects, with their profs 
as mentors, had just as much expertise as 
any professional we could have hired. 
"So these are the plans we have," he 
concluded. "If things go quickly, if everyone 
is in agreement, if we find no problem we 
can't solve right away, then the adoption 
will go quickly. If not, then it will take more 
time. I think it's just too early to say right 
now." 

Ackerman 
Student Activities Vice President Ackerman, who has been in close working contact with the renovation committee since it began operations last February in LaFortune's second floor central lounge, said the committee members had been "very encouraged" by what the University officers told them at the officers April meeting. "They found them very recep­tive," he reported. 
"The next step is to take the matter to the Board of Trustees subcommittee on Student Affairs in May for their approval, and then later in May to the Board itself," he said. "Now ,whether or not they buy the whole thing, or even parts of it, is up in the air." 
"You see, the committee members developed a professional idea of what a student union building should be, and then tried to take LaFortune and turn it into an embodiment of their philosophy," Acker­man explained. Ackerman was one of those who developed the student center philosophy. 
"It's a solid plan, well thought-out," he said. "It is the first time in the whole history of this discussion of LaFortune renovation that anyone has developed plans anywhere near as solid as these. The committee went at it ri~ht." 
Ackerman said;'Money is probably the big stumbling block." But the problem remains, he said, of "Where do we get the money? He continued, "That's why we've go to get the Board to accept either all or parts of our philosophy.Then we're home free." 
The Philosophy Condensed 
The philosophy embraces two major ideas, among others: to conserve space ("The buildings' too chopped up right now­organizations move into vacated rooms with no regard for space economy") and to get similar services into the same general areas. 

Dr. Faccenda 
Br. Gorch 


Jerry Lutkus 

Gorch 
LaFortune manager Brother Francis Gorch reminded that one of the reasons ND alumnus Joseph LaFortune donated the money in 1953 to turn the then Science Building into a student center was "to give off-campus students a place to relax, to eat their lunches, to have someplace to go between cla.;f.{'S." 
Gorch, who has managed the student 
cen_ter for just over eig~t years, does not 
~eheve that the renovation plans as drawn 
up by the student committee emphasize this 
point enough. 

"The students have come in and talked to 
me about it," he said. "It sounds like they 
want to make the Rathskellar into some 
kind of restaurant. That would kill the whole 
idea of giving off-campus students 
someplace to go between classes." 
Presently the Rathskellar, which is the 
large central area on the lowest level of 
LaFortune, is used as a lounge by the off­
campus students. It is adjacent to the off­
campus office. 

"I would like to see some redecorating, repainting and installation of new drapes " he explained, "to put some new color a~d beauty intothe place. (Otherwise) I'd rather see the money go towards building a whole new student center instead of renovating this one." 
"After all, you spend two and a half million dollars on renovation and you still have a building constructed in the 1890's," Gorch said. 
From surveying the reactions of spokesman for organizations presently holding space in LaFortune, it appears that some complaints will be heard before the committee plans are ultimately accepted or rejected. 
Bohlander 
According to Pete Bohlander, newly­appointed assistant Student Union director, the general consensus of the student union commissioners is that "We'd rather stay where we are." 
The student union offices are now located on the third or top floor of LaFortune. Committee plans would move them to the north side of the second floor, separated by a receptionist-lounge area from the student government offices. The whole complex would be located in the area where the student government offices, the Obs.erver offices, and the Fiesta Lounge is now. 
"For one thing, we have more room up here," said Bohlander. "And I personally can't see how putting a lounge where we are now will benefit the students. I can't see them roming up three flights of stairs to just sit around." Bohlander was correct in that the plans would put a small lounge in the center of the third floor hall area, with the Dome and Scholastic offices on one side, and the Observer offices on the other. 
Adding that he disagreed with the com­mittee's plans concerning renovation of the Rathskellar, Bohlander continued, "Per­sonally, I'd rather see· no renovation at all than have the committee's plans accepted." 
Braye 
The Dome's Editor-in-Chief for 1973-74, Rod Braye, was unhappy with the com­mittee's intention of moving the darkroom, where photographs are developed for student publications, from its present location in the basement to the proposed site of the new Oltserver offices. 
Rod Braye 
"I absolutely don't think that would work" said Braye, explaining that photographers need a place where they can work in solitude, removed from the pressures of demands made by page and night editors. 
He was "not terribly enthused" about the plans for moving publications offices in the manner prescribed by the committee. 
"I can't see a need for it," the Dome ed!tor complained. "Originally they were gomg to leave the Scholastic and Dome where they were (on either end of the hall) and move the Observer up in between them. I don't know what happened to make them change their mind on that." 
Lutkus 
Besides the fact that Observer Editor-in­Chief Jerry Lutkus agreed "The darkroom should stay where it is," all other organization spokesmen surveyed in­cluding Lutkus, liked the renovation pians. 
"We're really happy with the prospect of moving upstairs," said Lutkus. We'll have more room, for one thing. They'll be blowing out all the non-structural walls and the committee is going to sit down with us to discuss how to construct new walls to best suit our purposes." Lutkus also liked the idea of "consolidating the publications offices onto one floor." 
McNamara 
Kerry McNamara, new Editor-in-Chief of the Scholasticjsequally pleased. "I like the 
idea of putting all publications on one floor, 
and services on another," he said. "Moving 
will also give us a chance to clean up the 
place." 
McNamara has seen the plans, he said, and "They look really excellent. As long as we have as much working space there as we have here, I'll be happy," he concluded. 
Swanson-Mathew 
Erik Swanson, student representative of the Student Insurance office, said he was satisfied with committee plans to move the three-office "suite" of Student Insurance, the Morrissey Loan Fund and the Minority Counseling Center, to the area near the present off-campus office. Frank Mathew of the Loan Fund agreed. 
Nelson 
Regina Nelson, a grad student associated with the Black Cultural Arts Center, said the committee was convinced by represen­tatives from the Center to leave the Center where it was instead of moving in across LaFortune's inner court, where, according to Nelson, the space would have been exactly the same with no advantage. 
Conclusions 
Ackerman answered some of the 
organization people's fears by saying that 
"I believe just about everybody gains a 
couple more square feet." Ackerman's own 
office will remain where it is presently 
located. "This office should remain here, 
close to the student activities we're sup­
posed to be working with," said Ackerman. 
"And if the proposed LaFortune Student­
Faculty Management Board should ever 
come to be," he concluded, "it would work 
out of one of these offices in our Student 
Activities office suite." 
d 


Friday I 27, 1973 the observer 
7 


Great epic journeys do not generally begin in South Bend Indiana, nor does the epic hero travel by car over the ex­pressways of Ohio, pcross Route 80 in Pennsylvania, and up into New England to the coast of Maine, where the children of fishmen are at home to the ebbtides of the Atlantic. One cannot glimpse the ocean as it breaks against that gray shore without knowing that this is the spot where God must come when He wishes to brood alone. Eternity is in the landscape here; death must come to men 1nd cities, and all the proud kingdoms but the sea lives forever, and its c,•.•.,anions are the shore and sky. 
the epic hero 
The Maine coast is a fitting place for the journey's end of an epic hero but last week, it was simply the scene of the Good Friday travels of a shabby fat man. Homecomings should be triumphal affairs, but there is really not much of a sense of triumph when you are numb from hundreds of miles ·of travel, and in your gray wrinkled suit, you look like an elephant that has lived too long on prunes. I did not need brass bands nor the bright colors of carnival, nor were my needs epic, for I was not Jason searching for the Golden Fleece, nor Aeneas seeking the wisdom to found an empire. I was just a youngest son, far advanced into adulthood, at home a'" '-.ng time to see his mother. I may not ho. . :1 Jason or Aeneas, but maybe I was a little bit like Barry Fitz 
Across 
I. Street on which Addams Family lives 
10. Timmy's mother on Lassie 
13. 
Superman's girlfriend 

14. 
The talking horse 

15. 
To make angry 


17. 
Comic strip doctor 

18. 
Indefinite article 

19. 
Greek word for state 


23. 
Joey's pal on Fury 

24. 
Actor who played Timmy on Lassie (first namel 

25. 
--and rave 

26. 
Barbara Anderson's role <initials> 


28. 
Either -­

29. 
Sergeant under Capt. Burke in Burke's Law <first namel :J3. An overhead railway :15. Star of The Deputy :J7. Container of consecrated hosts :J8. --and out :J9. Star of Empire <initials> JO. A suffix meaning act or result of an 


2 
gerald, when the theme song was by Bing Crosby humming too-ra-loo-ra-loo-ra in the background. 
On Good Friday, I saw my mother after being away from three and a half years. She is seventy-eight years old. She lives in a farmhouse down East that is over one hundred and fifty years old, and the place is so remote from the town, there are fawns dancing in the backfields at sunrise. 
For years, I have searched for a home and family I can belong to, with only temporary success; but on Good Friday, I found the home I can really call my own,in a farm­house belonging to strangers, in the company of that little old lady with eyes like the colors of sea and sky blended together. 
That little old lady is the mother of seven children, three of whom survived. Widowed at the age of forty-nine, she undertook to raise two additional children from infancy, and she took care of a sick son, my brother, until one day, after the children were grown, her strength came to an end, ana she had to rest. Even in her resting, she has com­municated strength and laughter -in the hospitals and nursing homes-to all who have touched her life. 
Her questions to me were practical. but full of love. Why was my hair so long? Had my health been good? Why didn't I tell her I was coming? Had I lost any weight? Did I still have Darby O'Gill? I told her I had had a book published, and almost shyly; she asked, would I send her a copy? My answer was deliberately vague, for in my own heart, I realized I would probably not send her the book, because I am truly afraid she would not like it. 
Of our conversation on that day and the next, I will records only one final remark. Almost the last thing she said as I was leaving was: "Robert, whatever you do, please don't fall." I suppose by her remark she was warning me against psychical in­jury, but I wondered if, by her ambiguity, she was urging me not to undergo a lapse of virtue. Mothers do worry so about temp­tations. 
Saturday's journey 
On Holy Saturday, after leaving my mother. I went to another part of the state to 
find a sister-.vhom life has broken as though the heart and mind were more fragile than glass. But now, the breaking has been mended, and she told me that on Friday, after eight years of illness, she will be released from the hospital. She said she has written most of her old friends, and had hoped to hear from them, but none had bothered to write back. She said she hoped they would not think badly of her because she has been ill, and she prayed that the world would be kind to her. Oh, sister of mine, it is my Easter prayer that the world will indeed by kind and gentle to all the broken people, and especially to you who have found healingin this season of life. But do you wonder, 0 God, why I sometimes say that if You lived on earth, people would break your windows? 
There was one more sad place I had to visit before completing my April experience of family. InPortland,l saw my brother, but 
more crosswords 
action ·ll. Pirate outfielder who hit 58 home runs <initials! ·t:J. National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration -15. --Miss Brooks -16. --Dong School -18. Taxi-­
50. Star of Father Knows Best (initials> .54. A lead convention in bridge 
56. Star of The fnvaclers 

57. 
Star of Perry Mason 

58. 
Mrs. Robinson's first name 


59. 
Stage character who'is seventeen, going 


on eighteen Iii. Star of Bronco li2. Jewish comedian (initials) liS. Star of Ripcord li7. Worth of something ti8. First of the TV Lois Lanes 

71. 
Merv Griffin's sidekick <initials) 

72. 
Hich Fuqua's school. <initials> 


73. Older boy on Flipper 
75. 
Daniel Boone's son <initials> 

76. 
He had the longest running TV. show <initials! 77, Wrote Last of the Red Hot Lovers 1initials l "78. Star of Dennis the Menace 


81. --Ham and Japheth 
ll:l. Played Norton <initials) 
84. Star of Pistols and Petticoats (initials) 
86. Star of TV Tarzan 

118. 
Les Crane <initials) 


119. 
Star of Felony Squad 


91. Fitting or appropriate 
that is a sadder story than I care to share with you~ven sadder than I had expected it to be. What I feel about my brother is a grief beyond language. 
Finally, on Holy Saturday, after a drive through the city <Portland) where Longfellow and I grew up, (each in his own generation) to see my old high school and the house where I was raised and the magnificent view of the bay and the harbor from the eastern skywalks where my grandfather, retired from the sea, took me to play as a boy, I left Maine as the twilight was falling that preceded Easter. 
The tripto Maine was, for me, a journey into childhood, a retreat into self. Of all the loveliness I knew as a child, only two things have remained perfect: the strength and beauty of a mother's love, and the deathless rhythms of the sea. 
This epic journey of an anti-hero was an arduous one, even though there were no skirmishes with dragons to record. But life itself is as fierce as a many-headed dragon. If you haven'tknown thati know this, you have not understood much about my faith, and my faith is about the only gift I have to share with you. 
This summer, I shall be looking for you in New York or London the places where the Manhattansare good and the people are friendly. In the meantime, I would like to conclude with something from my mother. Speaking of Notre Dame students, her words were, "I never said I didn't love them." 
All I can add is: Darby and I never said we didn't love you, either. 
92. Fat private detective 
94. 
Old --<Yale's nickname> 

95. 
Cigar residue 


97. -·-Patrol 
98. Organization of doctors !l9. Co-star of The Flying Nun 
100. Ranger on Laredo 
102. Name of Dale Evan's horse 
103. The Trouble With -­Down 
I. ~tarred as The Lone Ranger 
2. An age :J. .Played Fenster in I'm Dickens --He's Fenster <initials) 4>: Extra-sensory perception 
li. 
Star of Johnny Ringo <initials> 

i. 
Flag raiser at Iwo Jima (first name) 

R. 
Played King Tut on Batman (first name) !1. A famous lodge designation 


II. Name of The Lawman 
12. Name of Capt. Burke's chauffeur 
16. Stare !past tense> 
20. Spanish for gold :!1. Sang theme song of Rawhide 
22. Into :!3. Employs Paul Drake <initialsl :!6. --Wvnne 
27. Star or' Wagon Train :!0. The middle brother Karamazov :!I. Assistant to Capt. Burke and detective on Burlu•'s Law :J2. Subsidiary corporation of IBM'<initialsl :l-1. Star of Topper :JS. TV black horse :lli. Famous game-show panelist formerly on To Tell the Truth 
42. Star of Sky King <first name> 
H. He played Dr. Zorba <first name) 
47. New York University <initials) -19. Played the Good Witch of the North 
51. Star of Sky King (last namel 52 Paladin's Chinese servant 
5:l. Played Cochise on Broken Arrow liO. --van Pelt li2. Goldfinger's first name li3. Co-star on Dr. Kildare li-t. smallest member of Top Cat's gang 
lili. Male co-star of Broadside li9. Co-star of Mod Squad <initials> 
70. Hadical student group 7-1. II stands for --in THE Cat 
79. A genus of plants of the lily family, native to South Africa HO. Star of Batgirl (initials> HI. Spanish word for sun !!2. --Barker 
H:J. Advertisements 8-1. First name of The Girl from lJNCLE 
85. Star of The Untouchables 
87. ~arried Betty Jo Bradley (initials) 
89. 
Husband of Eve on The Mothers-In-Law <first namel. 

90. 
Rant and ­


92. 
Monte -. prrivate detective 

93. 
Main character on Bourbon Street Beat <initialsl 


96. Border of a fabric 
98. Female co-star of oldTopper show <initialsl 
101. Smallest state in U.S. qnit¥&Js> 

~  Start your weekend at...  ~  
i  Bulla Shed  E  
(Corner of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) Mass and Cookout  
Friday  5:00. p  



by Bill Sabin Staff Reporter 
Psychiatrist and Yale Professor 'Robert Lifton analyzed the psychological conflict that Vietnam veterans suffer in his lecture "Victims and Executioners" last night in the Library Auditorium. 
Traditionally, Lifton noted, war became a "metaphor for a test that the individual had to meet." that was necessary for the warrior's sense of dignity. However, the nature of the Vietnam war allowed no sense of heroism. Lifton found that it instilled a tragic sense of guilt and rage in Vietnam veterans. 
Lifton said that one aspect of the war that caused this feeling was that Vietnam was an "atrocity-producing situaion." Using the My Lai incident as an example, he point out that when friends are killed mcombat, the survivors counter-act their 
feelings of grief and guilt (of being alive while their friends are dead) by, re-attacking the "enemy" with vengeance. And, 
• 
Rudy Tomjanovich; 2) Kansas; 3)
Class electlons on Kenny Booker; 4) .Larry 
Tuesday at SMC 
by Pattie Cooney Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's class eleetions will be held on Tuesday, May 1, from 10:00 
a.m. until 4:00p.m. Campaigning begins at 8 a.m. April 27 and ends at midnight April 30. 
Thost! running for president of next year's senior class are, Mary Ellen Stumpf and Debbie Schwarz. 
Jan-Gabler and Muffet Foy are running for vice-president. Sue Lamboly is running for secretary. Carrie Bellock and Martha Sant­Amour are running for treasurer. 
In the prospective junior class, Jodi Campbell and Carol Collins are running for class president. Kathryn Hutter and Beth Jones are the vice-presidential candidates. Joanne Dubrovich is the candidate for secretary. 
Kay Thomas and Judy Mardoian 
) 
are running for cl$s president in 
) 
next year's sophomore class. 
) 
ThereJa re no other candidates for ~ the rest of the other sophomore ~ 
class offices. 
I Students may vote in their 
I respective halls on Tuesday.
I 
) 
) ) 
ATTENTION: 
I 
~ l l 
Any Freshman Interested in the 
l l 
1974 Sophomore Literary Festival 
Contact: Frank Barrett 3578 Before Monday 4:30 
CINEMA 73
I 

presents De Sica's 
i 
I 
"The Bicycle Thief" 
; 
} . 
April 28 and 29 Sot. & Sun. 
! l I 
8:00 Engineering Auditorium 
ADMISSION $1.00 PATRONS FREE 
in Vietnam the enemy was everywhere. 
Another aspect of the Vietnam war was that he said an effect was the "John Wayne thing," an unfeeling sense of maleness, that for too long has been a "symbol of the American ethos of virility." Overcoming this, "learning to feel again, "is a major problem for returning veterans. He called it an issue of "psychic numbness," int hat many Vietnam sur-vivors have an inability to love or to feel: "to cry would be considered something of a victory." 
Lifton also commented upon the recently returned POW's. He called the "orchestration" that surrounded their return an at­tempt to relieve the feeling of guilt about the war on a national level, and bring about a return to the "mythology of pure 
Stan Urankars trivial cmswezs 
Answers to Stan Urankar's Trivia Test: 1) The Notre Dame player was "El" Sid Catlett, and the opponent(s) were Michigan and 
Hollyfield; 5) In order of triumph, Valparaiso ~ Western Michigan,Tulane, LaSalle, DePaul, and Bowling Green; 6) Carr did it against DePaul, January 14, 1970, and broke Larry Sheffield's old mark of 46 points; 7) Tom "T.C." Corde of Ohio Univerisity "held Carr to 61 points at the University ofDaytonArena; 8)Danlssel; 9) South Carolina and John Roche; 10J John Ploick; 11) Notre Dame beat Texas Christian before losing to Drake and Houston; 12) The Marquette guard was Dean Meminger, Mike O'Connell slapped the ball from .him Tom Sinnott grabbed it, and Austin Carr scored; 13) Forwards--Gary 
IDIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIWIUIIIWIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIItit 
American virtue." 
A further topic that was discussed was the question of amnesty. He said that amnesty for everyone could affect a raising of the level of national consciousness. "Then the Vietnam war would have served some national, and, indeed, some human purpose." 
Much of Lifton's analysis was derived from his involvement with psychological services for veterans for the last three years, there he led "rap-groups" for veterans. 
His talk last night was largely based on his latest book, Home From the War. He has also written Death in Life: Survivors of Hiroshima and Boundaries: Psychological Man in Revolution. The talk was sponsored by the Student Academic Commission. 
Novak and Tom O'Mara, Center-Chris Stevens, Guards--Bob Valibus and Tom Hansen; 14) Minnesota, Ohio University, and Southern Illinois in 1970; 15) Junior Bill Lucas beat Bowling Green, 5-1; 16) Nick Scarpelli, 2B, 1970; Charlie Horan, OF, 1971; Joe LaRocca, lB, 1972; Bob Roemer, C 
1973; 17) Joe Theismann; 18) Ron Schmitz, older brother of present Irish first baseman Mark, was the righthander, and Mickey Karkut was the southpaw; 19) Right field as a freshman, and shortstop as a soph; 10JPhilKrill; 21) In order, Air Force Academy, Colorado College, and North Dakota; 22) Phil Wittliff; 23) Gary Little; 24) Ian Williams got the hat trick, and Dick Tomasoni was the goalie; 25) Phil Wittliff, 1970; Wittliff and John Roselli, 1971; Kevin Hoene . and Bill Green, 1972; Green and Paul Regan, 1973. 
YOU'RE A GOOD MAN CHARLIE BROWN 
Clark-Gesner's musical entertainment based on the comic strip Peanuts by Charles M. Schultz 
April 26,27,28,29 at 8:30pm May 3,4,5,6 at 8:30 pm April 28 and May 5 at 2:30pm Students-Faculty-Staff $2.00 Reservations: 284-4176 


Varsity shirts. 
For playing around, long after the game's over. 
498 
Our cotton jersey athletic shirt has white raglan sleeves and con­trast lettering. Eight bright colors in sizes S-M-L-XL. 
JCPenney 

We know what you're looking for. 
J.C. Penney. So. Bend, Open Daily 9:39 to 9:00 Saturday until 6:30, Sunday 12:30 to 5:00 

....a.....-------~~----------~--------------------~--1 
j 

At Saint Mary's 
Four years of change 
by Pattie Cooney 
Saint Mary's College has changed quite a bit in the past four years and, from the looks of things, will continue to do so. 
Changes have occurred in several areas of the college community. The college itself became incorporated in 1972, with the coming of its new lay president, Dr. Edward Henry. 
Since the failure of the merger with Notre Dame in 1971, it is becoming more independent from Notre Dame. The college has programs associated with I.U.S.B. and has initiated the new Tucson · program. , 
The college has changed not only 1 structurally, but in its students. ' "The freshman class ill '69 came to college at a point when the idea of going to college ~as at a peak. It , 
was the thing to do," commented Sr. Raphaelita Whalen, director of admissions at St. Mary's. The stress then was on a broad liberal arts education. 
Academic Intemt 
As statistics concerning the academic inent of freshmen in 1969 and 1972 reflect, interests have changed. In the class of '73, 63 came in with English as their major intent, followed by 62 in Education and 44 in Mathematics. In the class of '76, 29 indicated Pre­med as their major intent, followed by 26 in Art, economics and business, 24 in Education and 22 in Mathematics. 
The largest difference was in English, down from 63 in 1969 to 17 in 1972. Another significant dif­ference is that in '69 no one declared any interest in pre-med as a major, but in '72, 29 did. Those intending to major in education dropped from 62 in '69 to 24 in '72. Only 32 were "undecided four years ago, but last fall 182 were undecided. 
There seems to be a trend towards more career oriented majors such as economics, business, science and law, away from history, philosophy, sociology and French. "Today's freshman is more career minded," noted Miss Janice Wheaton, guidance coun­selor at SMC, "but I feel much of it is due to the Women's Liberation movement, in that it has focused attention on women's needs. With the movement has come more opportunity for women in careers." 
MAY GRADUATES! 
ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICES was recently for­med as a subsidiary company of ASSOCIATES COR­PORATION OF NORTH AMERICA to better service the ever-increasing need of professional personnel seeking College Graduates to enter superb management training programs. Currently we are representing several large companies seeking professionals in the following fields; ACCOUNTING, DATA PROCESSING SALES AD­MINISTRATION, AND TECHNICAL AREAS. ' 
Now is the time to start giving seriot.~s thought regarding your future. We ask that you let our Professional Staff of Personnel Analysts assists and guide you in this very im­por~ant period. 'If you ar:e currently seeking to make a desirable career move, please call or come in cofidence to: 
ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICE 
1030 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
South Bend Ind. 46604 
219-233-2132 
A licenced employment agency 
Although enrollment has gone down from 484 in '69 to 425 in '72, with 450 expected in fall of '73, there have been fewer can­cellations. 
Some things have remained the same though. In geographic distribution Illinois, Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania and In­diana contributed the largest number of students. There are still very few foreign exchange students. 
At!missions 

"With this year's freshmen class I was prepared for a year of maladjustment and was very surprised that they have adjusted so well considering the cir­cumstances. It is much to their credit that they settled down so quickly," commented Raphaelita. 
The· circumstances that she is referring to concern the ad­missions procedure prior to the cancellation of merger plans. Girls applying for fall of '72 could apply to SMC only ND or both. All were St. 
St. Mary's. QuaiUy of Admissions Academic standards in relation 
(continued on p. 10) · 


Maybe a jon 1sn t what you need. Maybe you need a career. 
And if you've ever been inter­ested in law, that career could be just three months away. 
The Institute for Paralegal Traini11g has placed over400 grad­uate lawyer's Assistants in over 40 major cities from coast to coast -after just three months of train­ing in Philadelphia. When you be­come a Lawyer's Assistant, your work w111 be unlike anything you've ever been exposed to, 
CALLCOUECT to Ms. Carol. Brown (215) 825-0905 
OR WRITE: 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
Dept. A, 401 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 19106 
Friday, April 27, 1973 the observer 

HOUIISs MON • TUES • TliUW • PIJ ' AN. $.31) PM
W!D • SAT 9 AN. 12 NOON COMPLEI'f W'.!Cr ACLI 
SRVICf. 
ALL fH 0\t'S ,lfSCIIHIOHS kOHOIE! 
Ca/1 
189-7809 

NEED HELP LEAVING N.D.? 
HEADING HOME 
OR OFF ON VACATION TO: 
ATLANTA... 

NASHVILLE .•. NEW ORLEANS .•. 
FLORIDA ..• BERMUDA ..• BAHAMAS... 
MEXICO ... THE CARIBBEAN .•. 
CALL MIKE DEMETRIO 
283-8462 
~EASTERN 
~ 
The Wings of Man 

L---------------------------------------------~ 
'Mary's. The results were that 312 i applied to ND only, 274 to SMC only, 784 to both and 43 no choice. Many rejected at ND or who in­dicated no preference, ended up at 
work which has until now been done exclusively by lawyers. The environment is professional: law firms, banks, and corporate legal departmer=tts-and the work is challenging and stimulating with plenty of opportunity for growth. 
lawyer's Assistants are in such demand that you can actually choose the city in which you want to work. All you have to do is· call, toll·free, to find out what a career as a lawyer's Assistant means to 
you. 
9 
. I 
~ ~ 
~ 
• 
~ 
~ 
•I 
1 
~ 
1 
~ ~ ~ 
I 
4 
I I 
l 





r·..c •.. 
r 
10 the observer Friday, April 27, 1973 • ~ 
MAIN CHURCH

~':_ 
k New trends appearing at SMC
~ 
SUNDAY MASSES 

that same interval in mathematics want more assistance in their that year a!> opposed to only 5 planning sooner in their college scoring at that interval in '72. The career," said Wheaton. incoming class in '69 scored Ms. Kathleen Mulaney, dean of 
FREE CONCERT 
significantly higher in each in­students also noted some changes. terval group than those coming in She sees a trend of increased the fall of '72. This does not involvement on the part of the necessarily mean that admission student within the college com-TONIGHT -8:30 standards have been lowered, since there seems to be a national 
STEPAN CENTER

trend to put more emphasis on the total record of the incoming fresh­
man, instead of on SAT scores. with Epic Recording Artists 
Coming to St. Mary's ,, When freshmen came in the fall 
~ 
ELF

_II of '69, the co-exchange program 
( was a big selling point. To those plus Greenleaf coming in '72 it was not. Part of 
sponsored by HPC and SU

the reason for this is the fee that was attached to •:o-ex classes and 
li
.. 
.. 
.I .~ 
l 

FRIDAY-APRIL 27 SATURDAY -APRIL 28 
IAFTERNOON: SOUTH QUAD 
EVENING: STEPAN CENTER 

6:00 2:00 THE FIRST AN TOSTAL DECATHALON2:00 JELLO TOSS CONTEST 9:00 ROAD RALLY (C-1 Parking lot) 
2:00 QUARTER· PITCHING 11:00 YE OLDE BICYCLE RACE 
11:30 · 1:00 FREE PICNIC BY THE LAKE2:30 IMPERSONATION CONTEST (in library aud. if it rains) (beside Holy Cross Hall) 
12:30 FRISBEE TOURNAMENT
3:30 OLD FIRE RACE 1:00 BEN-HUR CHARIOT RACE 
3:30 EGG THROW 1:30 PIE EATING CONTEST 
2:15 NEEDLE IN THE HAYSTACK 4~00 BOOKSTORE B-BALL TOURNAMENT FINALS 2:30 VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT 
3:30 TUG -0 -WAR
7:00 SURPRISE EVENT 
4:00 TOUCH FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP (NO vs. SMC)
7:15 THE FIFTH ORIGINAL AN TOSTAL AMATEUR HOUR 
9:00-1:00 IRISH WAKE 
8:30 FREE CONCERT (follows Amateur Hour--In stepan Center) ($4 per couple at the South Bend Armory) 
Note: All off-campus students, faculty ,a dministration and their families are cordially in voted to the free picnic 11:30 -1:00 inside Holy Cross Hall. 
Irish Wake tickets 10ld on North and South quads and at Stepan Center during activities 

~· 
(continued from p. 9) an hour quota was added. munity and also in the South Bend~· 
While some/have come to St. area, citing the number of com­
~ ·.
• 
to high school records, such as Mary's as a second choice to Notre munity volunteer programs a:­valedictorians, National Merit Dame, many have come because students are working with. ~-: finalists, National Honor Society they feel SMC itself has something The students' role in the college ~~ and National Merit semi-finalists to offer that ND does not. Among community seems to have in­t have varied slightly. Those in the those things are med-tech, nursing creased. They are represented on ~-class of '73 outnumber those in the and the Roome program. "Also in all the planning committees and 
class of '76 in all categories, for the current freshman class there task forces along with one
1. 
I example in 1969 there were 22 is a feeling that you don't have to representative on the Board of valedictorians admitted as op­go to college so that those who do Regents. "They (the students)
I 
posed to 9 admitted in 1972. All come tend to be more goal have reallycome into their own, in
l 
other categories were closer in orienated and are quite mature," the decision making process.
I 
number< such as those in the explained Raphaelita. Opportunities to influence
I. National Honor Society numbered Wheaton echoed Raphaelita's programs is open to them and
I 
I. 185 in 1969 and 152 in 1972. statement by noting that freshmen always will be unless they let the 
reins go," commented Mulaney.I Many seniors would disagree ,.. with Mulaney in regard to the
I Can Saint Maryls 
extent that students are involved in activities. More of them note a growing apathy, pointing out
make it alone? 
recent elections as an example. In the recent election there was only 
Rank in class remained about and sophomores have been coming one office where a candidate did the same averaging 36 per cent in in for placement counseling not run uncontested. the top tenth of their high school whereas in other years they did They also noted that last year class, followed by 76 per cent in the not. Previously only upper they had trouble getting people to top fourth, 86 per cent in the top classmen used the placement be a big sisters for incoming fresh­third, and 2 per cent in the lower services. "Now also, there seems man and transfer students,
I half. to b a tendency to look for subjects whereas when they came here as
t 
Score intervals in the College that will put them into the field of entrance exams have also their choice rather than picking a Continued on p. 10) changed. In '69, 17 scored between course because they like it or are BOO and 700 on verbal, 15 scored at interested in it. Students seem to 
5: 15 p.m. Sat. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. William Mathews C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Don Martin. S.J. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
"Evensong" Vespers at 4:30 p.m. Sunday Confessions are heard before each weekday Mass and from 7:00 to 7:30p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
W~t atnlnnial Jfanrakt ~nust 


"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 

U.S. 31 (Oixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 
BETWEEN ND AND SMC 
-~----------_,.,--.--------------------­
Friday , April 27, 1973 the observer 1 1 
31 Club, Badin Exiles advance to finals 

Bookstore Hysteria 1973 will conclude this evening with a clash between the powerful 31 Club and the surprising Badin Exiles, in a contest rescheduled for 6: 15 this evening at the Bookstore courts. The 31 Club was overpowering in its two outings yesterday, swamping RA's et al in the matinee by a lopsided 21-6 count and gaining the tourney final with. a 21-14 triumph over the Cardiac Five. 
Apathy,ambition combine at SMC 
(continued from p. 10) 
freshmen, more people were in­vQlved in elections and the_ big sister program. Some also notoo that the Regina student center is not being 
used as much as it could be. 
On the more positive side they 
cited the expansion of the Campus 
Ministry and the innovation of the 
Freshman Office. 
Among the seniors there is a 
sharp disagreement as to whether 
SMC can make it on its own 
without merging with ND. Some 
feel that it is just a matter of time 
before the college goes under and 
Notre Dame picks up the pieces. 
In the final. anlysis national 
trends have a lot to do with the 
development and future of any 
college or university. 
Years ago it was felt that to 
succeed in the business world one 
had to go college. Now the trend 
seems to look more at the in­
dividual and say that some people 
are not cut out for the college life. 
The idea is that some professions 
do not require a college education. 
Many who do come to college are 
not looking for a broad liberal arts 
education, but have something 
more specific in mind that will 
train them for a career. Con­
sequently there is talk of changing 
basic requirements. 
Many people feel that as long as 
the Women's Lib movement 
remains strong, bringing with it a 
growing demand for women in key 
positions, the small womens' 
liberal arts college is here to stay. 
Meanwhile the Badin Exiles fought their way into the finals by stopping an upset-minded Wounded Knees quintet, 21-13, after nursing a slim 11-9 lead at halftime, with Joe Butler, who suffered an injury during the 
recruiting 
Continued from Page 12 probably have Ray De Lorenzi and Larry Israelson on the wings with Pat Conroy at center." 
Lefty indicated that as yet the third line was hit and miss but if Mark Olive and Mike Dunphy return at full strength things will look pretty good. 
He added that Dunphy would be getting out of the hospital in about a week. 
"Mike will be in a body cast after he gets out until about the first of July when he'll start body therapy. We're not sure about when he'll be able to start skating agin, but we'll see what the doctors say in September." 
The 1973-74 hockey season promises to be an exciting one and Irish fans will have a chance to see 19 home games. Besides the regular 14 WCHA contests, Coach Smith's icers will en­tertain non-conference foes St. Louis, Harvard, Boston College, and Bowling Green. 
CELEBRATE SPRING 
and An Tostal with others 
in a weekend of Christian living. Tonight Till Sunday afternoon. in Michigan ! 
call by 5:00 p.m. boats Sister Kathy 4069 Sister Pat 4118 Fr. Reidy 5392 
contest, igniting the Exiles 
' 

second-half rally. In the night game, the Exiles scrapped their way to a 21-17 win over the Marksmen, who had lost the services of Roger Anderson for he evening session. The Exiles' board strength kept them within two points at the half, ll-9. Mter the intermission, Jim "Mad Dog'' McLaughlin powered the Exiles into the lead, which they stretch to four points at 16-12~nough to overcome a late Marksmen rally engineered by the Clemens twins. 
Tonight's game will feature the presentation of the All-Bookstore Squad and the awarding of the 1973 "Mr. Bookstore" title to the player who has "added the most" to this year's Boostore Hysteria event. 

Collegiate Notes Underst«nd «II subjects, plays «nd novels faster! TilOU'ilnds of topics available within 48 hou(s of mailing Complete with bibliography and toot notes Lowest Prices ilre GUARANTEED SEND $1.90 tor our latest descriptive Mail Order Catalogue with Post«ge P«id Order Forms too: COLLEGIATE RESEARCH 1 N. 13th St. Rldg. Rm 706 Phila. Pa. 19107 HOT-UNE l21S) 563-3758  

A lodge on a lake  

WithTWA 
itpaystobeyoung. 
Anned with just your 'lWA Bed and Breakfast* Plan, and a pack on your back, you can get a lot more ofEurope for a I'SiJ~iii~!T€\ lot less with 'IWA. 
Here are some ways we help. 
Bed and Breakfast. 
'IWA's "Bed and gets you guest house accommodations (at the least) in 4 7 European cities, breakfast and extras like sightseeing or theatre tickets all at really low prices. 
Europe Bonus Coupon Books. 
Take your boarding pass to any 'lWA Ticket Office in london, Paris, Rome, Frankfurt, Madrid, Athens or Amsterdam, and you'll get a book ofbonus coupons good for absolutely free things, as well as 

~~~rt.~~:= discounted extras like bicycles, theatre tickets, sightseeing, meals and lots, lots 
:r---=. more. Like we said, with 1WA it pays to be 
~=~..,.._._. young. For all the details write: TWA­IT PAYS TO BE YOUNG, Box 25, Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y. 10017. 
for more Information Call Dan Sheehan 283-3610 TWA campus Representative 

12 
the observer Friday, April 27, 1973 
Pomarico looks toward 'great year offensively' 
by Vic Dorr to add another accomplishment to blocking, new techniques, and new 
Sports Editor his already-impressive list. The plays, and if we can perfect that, 
addition was a fitting one, because then we'll be a strong team and a 
Frank Pomarico, Notre Dame's Pomarico, like his predecessor at contender next year." offensive co-eaptain for the 1973-74 guard, Larry DiNardo, is an in-Along with new techniques and a grid campaign, has accomplished tense I enthusiastic player. He's more versatile ground attack, the a lot during his two-year collegiate also a team player, one who will fit the Irish offense is also using the football career. well into the role of a game-spring months to break in a cluster 
He has earned a pair of by-game~eader. of first-time first string per-monograms as an offensive guard, During the past several weeks, formers. Centers Joe Alvarado and he earned them the hard way-the 6-1, 241 pound senior has led the and Mark Brenneman and tackles by piling up more playing time Mfensive unit through a formative Steve Neece and Steve Sylvester furing the past two \seasons than period of spring practice, a period have been working on the number­any other regular. He has enjoyed which was to be, according to Irish one offensive line, and fullback his share of pre and post-season head coach Ara Parseghian, one of Wayne Bullock and halfbacks Russ all-star honors, the first of which "offensive refinement." The Kornman and AI Samuel have seen began arriving during the spring of refinements are coming, but with similar service in the starting his so~homore year, and he was them are coming changes--both in backfield. named, last :seasonj, to Gridiron's style and personnel. "One of the tings about Ara," All-Midwest team and to the AP "It's tough to say how far we've said Pomarico, "is that he builds and UPI honorable mention gone from last year," admitted his offense around the type of squads. Pomarico. "Last year we were an personnel he has. That's what he's 
And last winter, when he, Dave outside offense, a 'see if you can trying to do this year; with the Casper, and Mike Townsend were catch us' offense. This year we've inside game we've got Bullock and named co-eaptains for the up-been mixing that outside game Kormnam and outside we've got coming year,l Pomarico was able with an inside, punch-away kind of <Eric) Penick and (Art) Best." 
· game. We're also trying new But the most productive of-
Stan U rankar ~~=~=*:?..?.;=;=*=;::;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::r.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=~=~=;=~=~=~=:=?.~:!=~=~=: 
Trivia: face-oils and free throws 
For a true sports fan, four years at Notre Dame and who was their high-point man (and super foul rates as a season pass to some of the best athletics shooter)?found anywhere on the collegiate level. It seems you 10. In Carr's last home game, the Irish dumped can walk into anyone's room on campus and talk Western Michigan, but surprisingly, it wasn't Austin sports. who took scoring honors for that contest, but another 
Being connected with the vast Gi>lden Dome Irish senior, much-maligned throughout his career. athletic machine has brought a lot of fond memories Name him. for me, and with it, the subject of my final two 11. The NCAA tournament appearance after Carr's 
columns: Trivia. senior season sent Johnny Dee's squad to the Midwest 
Every fan, whether jock or normal, has a favorite Regional. The Irish defeated one team before suc­trivia question that can spice up any conversation, cumbing twice, <the second time in the consolation immediately calling to mind many memorable game). Who were those three teams that Notre 
events and teams. Four years at ND recalls a lot of Dame played in the 1971 tournament? questions and answers ..... 12. How about the double overtime victory over Marquette freshman year? Notre Dame looked
Part I today will deal with questions from all the doomed, down by two without the ball, four seconds toNotre Dame basketball, baseball and hockey of 1970­go in the first overtime. Marquette's star guard got 73. Seniors should get a kick out of some of the the ball, but had it slapped away by an often-booedmemories, recalling wild games and ~uperstar Irish senior guard. It went into the lane where aplayers. Test your Notre Dame memory w1th these: 
junior fed another junior for the tying points. Name Basketball these four players. 
1. The first game this year's seniors saw at the 13. Throughout last year's 6-20 nightmare, Phelps Convo featured the Irish battling a Big Ten opponent, often shifted his starting lineup. Can you name the with ND winning a close game. An unforgettable five men who began the year as starters? Irish forward shook off an ankle injury to spark the Baseball Irish to three quick second half baskets. Who was 14. To date, Notre Dame has made it to the District 
t that player, what team did ND beat, and who was the IV tournament once in four years. What year was it, ~. opponents' hot-shooting forward, now playing in the and who were the other three teams in the tourney I NBA? <Big Ten champ, Mid-American titlist, and in­I dependent)?
2. In that first year, Notre Dame won their first five 

15. Coach Jake Kline won his Sooth career game atgames, gaining the sixth position in the UPI poll. A Cartier Field last season. Who did the Irish beat,little regarded Big Eight club came to the ACC on what was the score, and who was the winning pitcher December 15th to break that string. What school <he tossed a five-hitter in going the distance)'?
knocked the Irish from the unbeaten ranks? 
16. Name Note DAme's four baseball captains,3. The victory over UCLA sophomore year is un­
1970-1973. 

forgettable. The Bruins started that awesome front 17. This junior third baseman made the 1970 springline of Sidney Wicks, Curtis Rowe, and Steve Pat­
trip to Florida and returned with a .368 average in six terson along with guard Henry Bibby. Who was 
games. Coach Kline rated him as one of the best pro UCLA's fifth starter? prospects he'd ever had, but the player somehow decided to devote full attention to football. Who is he'?
4. Austin Carr drove the Irish fans wild with his 18. This junior righthader-senior lefthanderoutside shot and moves to the bucket, and he par­combination totalled 164 innings of mound duty inticularly annoyed coach John Wooden in that UCLA one.lseason. Who are they'?
win. Late in the game, with Carr singlehandedly dominating the Notre Dame offense, Wooden jumped 19. Junior Pete Schmidt has played in all but three off the bench, asking team members, "Who wants to games throughout three seasons of varsity baseball 
). go in and stop him?" A little-played sophomore took to date, but each year he played at a different 
the chance, but was rudely greeted by an A.C. three­position. This year, the Plainfield, N.J. native is at point play. That soph went on to start for the Bruins second base; where did he play in '71 and'72? this season ... name him. 20. Mter setting an ND record of 107 assists in his junior year, this shortstop set another mark in his
5. With the departure of Carr, et al, Digger Phelps senior year with 17 errors. Name him . 

. I came to Notre Dame and a 6-20 record. Can you name the teams ND defeated? Hockey 
21. Junior Mark Kronhom recently broke the school 
6. Through the end of Carr's j~or. year, the record for career shutouts with his third. He's had a Washington D.C. star was already nppmg up ~e whitewash in each campaign-name the teams he record books. Two questions: In what game did blanked. Austin break the school game scoring record with 51 22. Who was Note Dame's all-time leading goalpoints, and whose record did he break? scorer before this season'? 
23. A red-headed freshman forward, he set the7. The first NCAA tournament game freshman year school record for penalty minutes in his first season, televised the Irish against the Mid-American con­though he departed the Irish hockey scene after hisference champion. "A defensive specialist"lfor this soph year. Name him.
club was assigned the task of guarding Carr but was 24. Notre Dame first defeated Denver on Februaryripped to shreds by Austin's record-breaking game. 
6, 1971. A present Irish forward scored the hat trick in Name the player who guarded Carr (for a while,
I that win, and ND's first great goaltender stopped a
anyway), his team, Carr's record single game point

" penalty shot during the triumph. Who are these two
total, and the place where the game was played. 
players'?

8. The famous "fifth foul" game came in the next 25. Name all Notre Dame hockey captains, 197G-73 
NCAA encounter at Ohio State. Kentucky's All­(there were co-eaptains in each of the last three American center was supposedly saddled with his season).fifth personal foul midway through the second half, If this little dish of "oldies" whetted your appetite 
but finished the game. Name that player who keyed for more, get psyched for Monday's main course-25 the Wildcat triumph. questions on four years of Notre Dame football. 
9. Another memorable Notre Dame loss was in the Break out the football reviews and put on your stolen 
first home game of our sophomore year. What jersey...it'll be a good one. Atlantic Coast Conference squad dumped the Irish, Continued on Page 8 
~--------------­

fensive change thus far has come at tight end, where team captain Dave Casper is firmly lodged as a bluechip performer. The team's leading receiver through the ifrst month of practice, Casper moved from tackle to tight end after in­juries to Ed Bauer and Steve Quehl, and has sparkled in the new position. 
"I think having Casper at tight end actually strengthens ourline," said Pomarico. "When we run outside anymore, there's' no one there because Casper just washes them down. It's like having two tackles on the same side of the line. 
"I think he's also our leading receiver this spring, and that can only help our passing game. We're coming on strong there, anyway. Willie Townsend is as effective as he's ever been and Pete Demmerle and Kevin Doherty are both doing real well." 
The biggest question mark facing the Irish offense this spring is at quarterback, where sophomore Tom Clements and junior Cliff Brown are once again locked in a battle for the number­one position. Both have flashed improvement since the opening of spring drills, and Pomarico sees both as adding to the versatility of the ND attack. 
"When (Tom) Clements is at quarterback, the threat of his running and throwing adds depth to our passing game. Cliff <Brown), now, has improved tremendously since he was a sophomore. His throwing has really picked up, and he also can run the ball. But whoever's in there in the fall is going to be a good ballplayer, there's not much question about that." 
And beyond the resolution of the QB derby, the only big offensive question is one of time-and one of development. 
"The whole offense hasn't gelled completely yet," cautioned Pomarico, "and we've still got a ways to go. But spring practice is a hard time in which to judge people and, like I said before, we do have a great nucleus to work with. 
"And come fall, we should be gelled--we should be mature by then. And I think, really, that it could be a great year for us of­fensively." 
Particularly when players like Frank Pomarico and Dave Casper are on the field at the same time. 

Lefty enjoys successful ice recruiting campaign 
by Greg Corgan and defenseman Paul Clarke. 
With the graduation losses of Bill 

Hockey may have a winter Green and Mark Steinborn, season but now, since it has Coach Smith has concentrated achieved "major" sport status heavily on recruiting defen­here at Notre Dame, Coach semen this year. Besides Clarke, Charles "Lefty"' Smith and his so far Roger Borque from staff find themselves busy the Alberta, John Brownschidle whole year round. With funds from Amherst, New York and now available for an extensive Brian Walsh from Cabridge, recruiting program, Smith and Mass. will be key figures in Irish assistants Tim McNeill and Hockey plans next season. Lefty Kevin Hoene have quite a job has his eye on five or six screening high school hockey goaltenders but no definite players from across the country. arrangements have been made 
And their success of the past in that area yet. season has made the job of Coach Smith indicated that he recruiting top notch players was well pleased with the results somewhat less difficult. his recruiting efforts have 
"&videnced by recruiting, achieved. we've turned the corner as far "I feel that each one of these as making hockey a successful boys is capable of doing a job for sport at Notre Dame," Smith us next season and they'll all see noted. "We've never had an action. Walsh, for one, is a blue­easier time recruiting as we did chip prospect. He's probably the this year." finest high school hockey player 
He went on to explain why. in the country." 
"In the past we had to go out Asked about next year, the ND and search for the players coach was optimistic. ourselves. Now kids are coming "We'll have an outstanding to us. They're writing letters and club next year," he said, "we letting us know they're in­have three top defensemen in Bill terested and this is making Nyrop, Steve Curry, and Les things much easier." Larson coming back plus the new 
A case in point is Alex Pirus a people we've recruited. We're in six-foot, 185-pound center from good shape." Toronto. With the graduation of seniors 
"We tried to get in touch with John Noble and Paul Regan, Alex in order to arrange for him Smith's top two lines will be to make a trip down here," Smith shuffled somewhat, but, for the said, "but we later found out he most part, they'll remain in tact. was already driving here on his "The first line looks like it'II own to see the campus and talk be an all senior line. We'll with us, and Pirus was one of the probably move Ric Schafer to most sought-after players center with Eddie Bumbacco and around." Ian Williams on the wings. The 
Not only did Smith get Pirus second line," he continued, "will 
but also two other· Toronto 
Continued on Page 11

natives-center Clark Hamilton 








