
On The Inside 
Student teachers to prisoners ... page 3 Jazz Festival gets un­derway ... page 4 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII, No. 114 Friday, Apri I 13, 1973 
Balloting April 26th 
Joint election planned 
by Mike Baum Staff Reporter 
Acting under Tuesday's Judicial Board decision, the Student Government Board of Commissioners met yesterday and announced plans for a joint SBP and Board of Commission&s election to be held the final week of April. 
Balloting on Thursday, April 26th, will choose the six student representatives to the Board, and pick the two top SBP-SBVP tickets to run in the final SBP election on Monday, the 30th. 
The elections are being held in the wake of a Judicial Board decision ruling on the current Student Govern­ment constitution, declaring it "valid, effective and legal," and calling for the election of a new govern­ment by the 30th. The Board decided that a new Board of Commissioners should be elected regardless of whether or not the winning SBP candidate runs on a platform promising to abolish the Board. 
Commissioners will be elected. from the same six 
districts as previously-two from the North Quad, two
•
from the South, with the Towers and off~ampus each 
counting as one district. 
Petitions for inclusion on the ballots may be picked up today at the Student Government offices. SBP­SBVP tickets must have 300 signatures on a petition, arid candidates for the Board must have 100 signatures 
to be considered. All petitions must be returned by Tuesday, the 24th to be valid. 
Campaigning for the positions will begin on the 24th, and all campaigns must end by midnight of Wed­nesday. 
!he Board decided that the rules set up for February 
elections will be in effect, with minor changes. 
Thus posters may not be larger than 11" x 14" and 
may not be placed on outside walls, plants or other 
outside areas. Posters may only be placed in residence 
halls and public buildings on campus, "within reason." 
No "stickum adhesive" can be used for any materials. 
In addition, no campaign may exceed $150 in total 
expense. Tampering with posters is forbidden, and 
Commissioner Fred Guiffrida added, "Any petson 
with a <valid> complaint signed aginst him will be dealt 
with severely." 
In addition, no person on the current tentative 
graduation list will be allowed to run. 
Unlike February's election, candidates will not 
receive an allotment from Campus Press. 
Winners in the Board of Commissioners election will 
be decided by a simple plurality of votes cast. An SBP 
ticket must have 50 per cent plus 1 of the votes cast in 
order to win, and if no ticket succeeds in polling the 
required majority, the two top contenders will run 
again in Monday's election. 
Blank. ballots and write-in votes will be legal and counted in Thursday's run-off election, but neither blank ballots nor write-ins-will be valid or counted towards the 
total number of votes cast in thefinal election on the 
30th. 
Polls will be opened on the designeted days at the 
usual times-11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 to 7p.m. 
The Board also selected Off-Campus Commissioner 
Jim Hunt to run the election, "because he's ex­
perienced," according to Guiffrida. Hunt had 
previously managed the class officer elections. 



Memories, 

new and old 
The memory of WJJit Disney returns to Notre Dame this weekend in the form of Disney on Farade at the ACC. Like these children at Disney World, Florida, a group of children from Sr. Marita's Day School will experience Disney close up when they are taken to the show by a group of 110lunteer students from Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's. Student tickets cost only half­price for anyone who wants to join them for the Sunday matinee. 

SMC students 


boycott meat 
to raise funds lor 'el Campito'
• 
• 
by Mary Janca 
Staff Reporter 
•In an effort to raise money for "el Campito," a Mexican­American day~are center in SQuth Bend, approximately 600 St. Mary's students are boycotting meat in the dining hall. The boycott began yesterday morning and will run through Saturday night. 
All money saved as a result of serving non-meat dishes will go directly to the day care center, according to one of the projects coordinators, Debbie Schwartz.· A $150 minimum is expected to be raised through the boycott. "We won't be able to figure it out ac­curately until next Thursday, when I fill out the weekly report," said Saga manager Crawford Casswell. 
"We're trying to raise as much as we can, but we won't know how much that will be unttl we know how successful the boycott is and how many people are actually giving up meat," noted another coordinator Mary Fridl. 
Fire struck "el Campito" near the end of!February and, because of a severe lack of funds, forced the organizers to move it into a private home, Fridl said. 
Plans for the boycott grew from a "community psychology" course, which in its third and final phase, calls for students to "contribute something positive to me community/' she added. 
After reading an article in the February 28 Observer on the financial difficulties of "el Cam­pito," the class decided to help raise funds for the center. 
Commenting on the use of the dining hall as a means of raising money f.or needy causes, Casswell stated, "It's not a bad idea, but I feel that there are also other ways of raising money, like giving up smoking for a week." 
However, Fridl explained that "we wanted to work through the dining hall, because that is the easiest way to raise money." Less risk is involved and com­munication is easier. 

warld 

briefs 
({') 1!17:\ Nt>w York Times 

Beirut-The three Palestinian guerrilla leaders killed during the Israeli commando raid were buried in Beirut's "martyrs" cemetery after a massive funeral procession that drew together Palestinians and Lebanese, Moslems and Christians, armed guerrillas and school children. 
Paris--Pablo Picasso's priceless collection of works by other great modern painters will be given to the French nation. The decision was announced by his widow and only legitimate son, who cited a wish 1 expressed by Picasso during his lifetime. The collection, estimated at more than 800 pieces, includes important works by Matisse, Braque, Degas, Van Gogh, Cezanne \and others. 
Washington-President Nixon proposed federal standards that would increase unemployment benefits and extend coverage to 635,000 farm workers. The proposed legislation, which would give most workers at least half their regular pay when out of work, would also prevent states from extending benefits to strikers, as New York and Rhode Island now do. 
Washington-The government is preparing to relax many of the belt­
tightening measures it had proposed to control costs of such social services;as Day Care by sharply limiting eligibility. Critics said the proposed rules would make welfare more attractive than work for many low-income workers. Now, officials say, the rules are being 
revised to meet many of the criticisms. 
..........----------------------------------------­
--~·I:Ddllf 
friday 
1:30 p.m. lecture, jazz crltlsm. library auditorlun. 7:30p.m. lenten communion service, (byzantine-melkite rite) holy cross hall chapel 7:30p.m. festival, international students festival, washington 
hall 7:30p.m .lecture, william krier and thomas werge, cce 8 p.m. lecture, trancendental meditation. library lounge 8& 10 p.m. film, felllni's satyricon, engineering auditorium 8& 10 p.m. film, prime cut, holy cross hall 8:30p.m. meeting, flying iriSh club, halfway house, holy cross 
hall • 
8:30 p.m. opera, the magic flute, o'laughlln auditorium 
saturday 
1:30 & 7:30p.m. collegiate jazz festival, jam session, stepan 
center 2? 7p.m. concert, disney on parade, ace 6 p.m. film, amar prem. library auditorium 8& 10 p.m. film, fellini's satyricon, engineering auditorium 8& 10 p.m. film, prime cut, holy cross hall 8:30p.m. opera, the magic flute, o'laughlln auditorium 
sunday 2& 10 p.m. concert, disney on parade. ace 2, 7 & 9:30p.m. film, marat-sade. engineering auditorium 8& 10 p.m. film, the graduate, carroll hall ( smc) 
a nd·IIIIIC 

Weekday nights busiest at Bulla Shed, says Stella 
by Mark Derheimer Staff Reporter 

The Bulla Shed meeting house is living up to expectations according to its director Fr. Tom Stella. 
The Bulla Shed, run by the Campus Ministry and staffed by student volunteers, is located at the corner of Juniper and Bulla Roads across from Grace Hall. It is open from 2 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday thru Thursday, and from 2 
p.m. until people leave on the weekend. 
· Stella noted that "the word is getting around" about Bulla Shed's existence and people are using the house for meetings, studying and rapping. 
Activities now scheduled for the 
Bulla Shed include a Friday 
evening mass and dinner, and a 
program where on Notre Dame 
hall and one St. Mary's hall are 
invited for a evening get-together. 
The Shed also functions as a 
meeting house with such groups as 
CILA, Neighborhood Study Help, 
and lettuce \boycotters having 
already used the facilities. Two 
classes also meet at the house. A 
group wishing to use the Shed should call the Campus Ministry. 
IR the future, Stella would like to • see Bulla Shed "become a center for groups planning social action," with the house functioning as the meeting place for these groups. He also forsees the possibility of setting up drug counseling at the Shed. 
So far visitors have been heaviest on weekday nights as compared to weekends. Stella hopes the house can become a place where people who have nothing to do on weekends can find interesting conversation and people. 
Stella concluded by saying, "I don't want the Bulla Shed to be a place where a clique hangs out. It is open and informal and a place where everyone is welcome." 
iATTENTION ARTS AND LETTERS 
/  Present Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors.  
·  Applications for the '73-'74  
A & L STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL  
Me now being accepted. Each applicant must write a brief statement-­:--ne typewri1ten page or less--on why the person would be interested and qualified. Include your present class year, address. and phone number, -1nd submit it to the  
DEAN'S OFFICE ROOM 137 O'SHAUGHENSSEY, NO LATER THAN MONDAY, APRIL 16 AT 4:30 P. M.  
(interviews will then be arranged.)  


You'Ve got 17chances 
to pass upa free r. 
If you're heading south this Easter break, 
be  sure  to visit  some  of the  17 Marathon  
dealers  along 1-75,  between  Corbin,  Ken­ 
tucky and Tampa, Florida.  
They'll be waiting for you.  

Waiting with non-carbonated Lemon­Lime Flavored Gatorade®· _....,..=,. thirst quencher. All you can drink. Free. 
You don't have to buy a thing. And you don't have to be driving. But if you are, you're going to need gasoline. 
And if you fill up at Marathon, you·. can hang onto your spending money. Because we accept all of these: BankAmericard, Carte Blanche, MasterCharge, American Express, Diner's Club, and, of course, our own credit 
card. 
So stop in and fill up. 
Even if you don't need gas. 

Here•s to our dealers, bless 'em all. 
THE ROMA welcomes NO·SMC students 'Your host: F,ank Anastasio "We'lf make you a pizza you can't refuse" *DELICIOUS ITALIAN FOOD *PIZZA *LIQUOR Dancing to the sophisticated jazz rock sounds of Bill Nicks Trio. Open until 4:00am on weekends. Happy Hours, ll:J0-7:00 DdiiY Special prices for drinks, ·For Deliveries Call 234-3258 211 N. Michigan Ave. Downtown south Bend (Next to Morris Civic)  
Th~ Observer is publiShed dllll~ durino the colleg~ semester excepf vacations by the stuoents ot the University ot Notre Dame lind St. Mary's College. SubSCriptions may be p\lrchased for U per semester l$14 per year l trom The ObserVer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second ct.ss postage paid, Notre O.me, Ind. 46556­•  


~.1
.' 

Volunteers needed· 



Reaching inmates 

by Kathy Bessert waiting room. This was not an Staff Reportel' unusual experience. Next 
"Failure is not the falling down, Wednesday they would try again. but the staying down," was The volunteers were members of plastered above the administrative the Indiana State Prison Program, exit of the Indiana State Prison in initiated in 1970 by a Notre Dame Michigan City, Indiana. Four student, to prepare inmates for a people's eyes followed a tall negro General Education Diploma. as he threw a· drab green coat over Joe Gagliardi, a senior and his shoulder and walked out. He education major in 1970-71, toured was a. "trustee" and the four the pr~son with his criminology others were volunteers to teach Class and was so moved by con­reading and mathematics to the ditions that he was challenged to inmates of the maximum security do something to improve them. prison. By 7:30p.m., one nun, tWo Gagliardi presented a proposal Notre Dame students and one St. to the administration of New Mary's student had already waited York's Sing Sing prison for college an hour for the "all clear" to be men to :go in and teach prisoners. sounded so that they could begin The officials were favorably im­their night's work. ApparenOy pressed and urged Gagliardi to try they had wasted three hours that to impl~ent the program at a night oo· the . road and the in· prison near Notre Dame. He then stitution benches of ~ visitor's forwarded the prbpOUl to tbe 
(THE OBSERVER] 
•Seemfnrly dofnr the im­

po..tble with the ecue of the I df!ficult, two .tudenta from
On Campus/Off Campus 1 W.hat about 
the Engineerinr Department

t.he improbable? 
paddle a canoe conatructed of metal and concrete across St. Joe's Lake. They're preparing "The difficult we do em­. /or a national meet of such 

mediately; the impossible 
canoes to be held in a few Friday, April 13, 1973 Page 3 . takes a little longer" . weeks. (Staff photo by Jim 
-Marine saying Hunt) 


Off-campus problems 
by Pattie Cooney Staff Reporter 

Over the past few years, the Student Mfairs Office and the Campus Ministry have heard complaints that no one cares about off campus students and their needs. The two ·~partments have now decided to show their concern. 
The Student Affairs Office is contributing a diroctor of off campus residents, who will work with Campus Ministry in this area. Together they will try to provide any assistance off campus students may require. 
The program involves two persons who will have the responsibility of keeping records of off campus residences, directing students to off campus housing, but not get involved in the real-estate aspect. "We would like to set up some kind of evaluation to check on the qua!ity of housing, and keep the records up to date," explained Fr. James Shilts, assistant vice-president of student affairs. 
Services to be provided include legal counsel to inform the students of their responsbilities to their landlords aod to represent-them in any difficulties with the landlord. 
"The collecting of information concerning bargains, food, clothes, transportation and restaurants could help students save money," commented Shilts. 
"Th~ most important thing we feel is to really attack the problems facing the off campus students because there are certain needs and problems that something should be done about," stated Fr. William Toohey, director of campus ministry. Toohey went on to express his concern with the total life of the off campus student, pointing out landlord problems, problems with _rent, tran­sportation, and neighborhood problems. 
More importantly the off campus ministry ~s to bring the students and their neigh­bOrs closer together. Many times students living near other students and faculty are 


tackled 

totally unaware of each others' existence. 
The off campus ministry would also try to organize car pools to aid in transportation problems. According to Shilts, they are also trying to organize within the neighborhoods, a better socfal life, especially for the transfer students who are new to this .area. 
"We also hope to find guys living in apart­ments who would be willing to have their _apartments used as centers for com-. munication in their neighborhoods, and do the kind of thing a section leader does. 
Toohey saw the Bulla Shed as a center for off campus students to meet other students. He also saw the possibility for discussion groups and Masses to be held in the residences off campus. 
Shilts also would like to see off campus students, especially the transfers, affiliate themselves with halls on campus, become associate members of a hall. 

authorities in Michigan City. 
The volunteer teachers were and are noi necessarily education majors. Notre Dame students have taught mathematics and English or· chaired group "rap" sessions on a weekly basis. Several students from St. Mary's have participated in the past as teacher aide in a developmental reading program taught by Sr. Margaretta Rel)pan, a member of the St. Mary's Education Department. 
The prisoners are poorly educated and have litOe or no foundation to work on.. 
"They start from scratch learning ba~c reading skills with adult material. Getting out of their cell ~ posSibly a higher motivation than their zeal for learning," according to Sr. Marlaretta. 
Th.ere is · a standardized 

1 ed~cation progr~m witbin the prison, silpplemeatecl by accesa to newspapers, magazines, radio and television. The students are aD volunteers and tbe. volunteer teachers wort Wttbin tbe ·existing program. 
••~t•s more or less informal in­struction. Tbe:men work at their own level then at acertain time are tested to see if they can go on," said Freshman David Green. 
Kevin Kallberg, a sophomore, is director of the program for 1972-73. 
He is aided by Green and Ken Kallberg. There are no St. Mary's students nor Notre Dame wome in the program this semester. An integral part of the program is Sr. Margaretta. She alone teaches reading on Wednesday nights. Unfortunately the program has been limited by the small number of teacher-volunteers. 
The NotrP Dame Student Government provides the only financial support for the program, allocating five dollars weekly for gas. 
When asked about thE: future of the program, Sr. Margaretta thought that they would continue· with the present approach in­definitely unless prison officials regarded it as not in U>e best in­terest of all involved. 
Green feels that the chance of success would bt: increased if more girls would volunteer. Many of the men have not seen a woman in years. Witb the prospect of more women teachers be feels tbere would be an ·increase in the number of prisoner-volimteers. 
"With myself and other women teaching, it plits the men in a non­threateniqg ; situation, with the enjoyment ot being able to interact with women," commented Sr.·· Margareeta. 
Green feels that people should get off of their "crusades" and spend four hours of their time once a week to see "what is really going. on." 
"I read a poem about spring in The Observer last week. It said that spring meant nothing to our nation's prisoners," commented Green. "Well, they wait for spring more than anyone else. One middle-aged man told me that he watches for the first bird to sit on his window." 
Caznpus hangup: obscene calls 
by Tim Ttuesdell 
Staff Reporter 
Obscene and harassing phone calls are on the increase in the Notre Dame community according to Dick Miller, an employee of the campus Bell System. 
In order to combat the situation, the company bas installed a new device at the central switchboard in the Merporial Library. "For the protection of the students, we have acq.uired rather sophisticated eqwpment that makes it possible to trace a call," Miller said. 
Successful tracing requires that telephone authorities be notified after the first call. When the person phones a second time the switchboard can then trace its origin. "It. is important that you leave the phone off the book and then go· to another phone and in­form the Security Office," Miller emphasized. 

Students are encouraged to read page eight of the Bell System Directory for further information concerning obscene or harassing calls. 
Another problem confronting campus personnel is the illegal room phone. A survey was recently conducted to determine the location of rooms which con­tain illegal phones. . 
"We are not after punishment " Miller explained, "but we have'a job to do and we want these per­sons to be aware that it is the duty of the company to report stolen or illegal phones to Bro. Kieran Ryan of the Business ~Office." 
He also noted that· if students voluntarily notified the telephone company about the illegal phones the violation would not have to~ reported to Ryan. 

Jazz Festival offers topcittractions 
with the associate and assistant
\ 
provosts, the vice-president for 

is big on campus.
advanced studies, 11nd the deans before submitting his recom­~endation for appointment and 
HOUIS. 
·MON.TUES-~-fll 
. ,AMS.JitPM WID • IAT 9 Nlo 12 NOON

pnmotion of teaching-and· 
COMPt.n'! ..taACLI

research faculty. 
SRVlce


RoGERS 
AU !'II 01."1 I'IUCaiPTIONS HONOIK 

-Add. to the section o£ faculty 
servi~'\(xplicit \encoUragement 

Optical e./f

to be "a\tlilable to students 
21,-7109

lor that.~~.ikm<t of tutebrge for their personal development wheich 
Cotton denim

rangeS\ beyond what is strictly 
baggy jeans for 

acactemic." 
men with new -Insure that "ordinarily any 
pleated front. Navy{tizes

amendmentls <to the Manual) 
THE JUUANS INVITE YOU .... 
28-36':'798

desired by the Trustees will . be 
TO MEET MRS. ROBINSON AND

referred by the Board in the first instance to the Academic Council for its action." 
The Graduate 

The Council al'so adoRted 
SUNDAY~ APRIL 15

University policies on cl;lild­
STARRING..... 
Carroll Hall Auditorium 

bearing leave and on professional 
I 
\
Madeleva--SMC &

Dustin HoHman 8 10
and family relationships of em­
and 
Admission $1.00 p.m.

ploy~s. · 
Initial discussion took 
telling· lies 

to . Cotton denim jeans for girls have 2¥2'' cuff on legs. Navy Only
the 
Size 5-11
$7 
young 
•
IS 
wrong








VOTE 
JCPenney 
We know what you're looking for.
--In the lettuce boycott referendum 
J.C. Penney. So. Bend, Open Dally 9:30 to 9:00

on Monday 

Saturday until 6:30, Sunday 12:30 to 5:00 
by Mike O'Hare a flutist and double DoWDbeat poll Staff Reporter . winner. He can be heard on his own solo albums and many studio 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival is in sessions; including Robert Flack's full swing after last evening's Quiet Fire. benefit concert for the Minorities Joe Farrell plays the saxophone Scholarship Fund of Alpha Kappa and flute, and is a long time 
member of the Elvin Jones Trio. A~~ Alpba.
The performance featured former DoWDbeat poll winner, he Cannonball Adderly, Richard has also backed up Laura Nyro and Hatcher, mayor of Gary, Indiana, Roberta Flack on Quiet Fire. His a CJF Judges Combo, the latest album is Oat Baek with Charisma Dancers, the Bill Nicks Elvin Jones, Chick Lorea and Trio, and the Julius Farmer Buster Williams:'"" Quintet. Other jdges in the festival are 
This year's CJF includes an Dan Morgenstern, noted jazz critic outstanding group of judges. Gil and editor in chief of DoWDbeat Evans is a noted jazz arranger, magazine'.\ , composer and big band leader, and Alvin Batiste is the artist in is best known for his work with residence aild Director of the Miles Davis, including the classic Southern University · Jazz Sketches of Spain. Hubert Laws is Program. He ~as the Director of 
.. .
•

Three maJor reVISIOnS to Academic Manual 
Tbe Academic Council Thursday Faculty Senate proposal to amended its proposed revision of recommend addition of six faculty the Academic ManUal at the members to the Board of Trustees, 
·suggestion of the Faculty Mfairs but no vote was taken before ad­c·ommittee of the Board of journment. A similar Student Trustees. Government proposal to add three 
The three major changes: . students to the Board ls on the -state that the provost consult Council's agenda. 
YES 

there will be a midnight jam session featureing the CJF judges. 
MAIN CHUROI 
The midnight jam session is sponsored by the University of Notre Dame and the National 

SUNDAY MASSES 
Endowments\for the Arts\ 

5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.
All sessions of the . festival will be held in Stepan 
·9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Andrew Cifernl, 0. Praem
Center. 

10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. James Shaughnessy (Palm
Among. the college bands 
scheduled to play in CJF'73 include 
blessing and procession, chanted passion) 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.
groups from Malcolm College, Texas Southern, Ohio State, MIT, Ohio University, Tennessee State, 
·"Evensong" vespers at 4:30 p.m. Sunday.
Wisconsin, Michigan, Governor's · 
Con~~ssions are heard before weekday mass and 
State, Triton College, Bowdoin 
from 7:00 to 7:30p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
College, Indiana State, Notre Dame, and the .Melodons, an award-wining group from Notre Dame High School in Niles, 
Baggy jeans. 
Dlinois. 

The new look 
or at the Ar11erican National Bank in South Bend. 
· CoUegfate Notes 
Understand all subjects, plays · and novels faster! Thousands of topics available 
,,;:::-; within 48 hotJJ;S of mailing Complete with bibliography and footnotes Lowest Prices are 
GUARANTEED SEND $l.90 for our latest, descr,iptive Mail-Order Catalogue with Postage.Paid Order Forms : too: 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH 
1 N. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 704 Phila. Pa. 19107 
HOT-UNE.'U15l 563:-.lZSS .... 

the Multi-Ethic Music Center and was named fifth clarinetist in the Playboy jazz and pop poll. Jimmy · Owens is one of the outstanding young New York trumpeters. He can be heard in excellent form on the Newport in New York recor­dings. Roy Haynes :is one of the jazz's outstanding drummers. He leads the Roy Haynes Quintet and 
is most famous for his excellent. 
work with John Coltrane's in­
comparable group including 
Coltrane, Haynes, Jimmy 
Garrison and McCoy Tyner. 

Tonight's session of the festival begias at 7:30 p.m. a~will be followed by an awards session. After the awards are presented, 
Tbe CJF will also featule a Higb School .Jazz Band Contest featuring 17 bands. This session will run from 9:00a.m. to 6:00p.m. on Saturday in Washington Hall. Admission to this session is fifty cents. The inner of this contest will 
,

play at the CJF Saturday evening session. 
Prices for the CJF sessions are: $3 for Friday night, $2 for Saturday afternoon, $4 for Saturday night or a ticket for all sessions may be purchased for $6. Those who wish to attend oruy the Saturday mid­night jam session· may do so for $2. Tickets are available at the door, at the Student'~ Union ticket office 

Friday, April 13, 1973 
the observer 

Prayerful action urged 
Romero discusses Chicanos and the Church 

by Rich Mole Staff Reporter 

Ur.ging that "You are the Church,_go back and reclaim it as your own," Fr. Juan Romero, Executive Director of the Texas based PADRES <Priests Associated for Religious, Educational, and Social Rightsf, spoke to a small gathering in the Library Auditorium last night. 
Fr. Romero's speech, "The Catholic Church from a Chicano Perspective," was sponsored by Mecha and focused on the Church as a relevant organ for Chicano expression. 
"Much anger in recent years has 

SG pro boycott 
The Notre Dame Student Government favors the Univer­sity's boycott of non-union lettuce and supports Cesar Chavez and the United Farm Workers union. 
The amount of sacrifice necessary to support .the lettuce boycott is small compared to the possible good that might stem from the success of the boycott. 
We urge members of the student body to vote Monday, April 16, in order to get a true consensus of the students. 
Astronomy officers 
The Astronomy Club has elected Richard Van Effen and William Jensen as President and Vice­President for the 1973-74 academic year. 
The Astronomy Club, with its new six inch and eight inch , reflecting telescopes, expects to increase its activities this fall. The club is planning to sponsor several movies and is trying to arrange a 
field  trip  to  the  Yerkes  Ob­ 
servatory  in  St.  Williams  Bay,  
Wisconsin.  

been focused on the Church by the Romero cited that one-quarter of Chicanos, since it was viewed as an all Catholics in the United States institution capable of victimizing were of Spanish or Mexican them,'.' said Romero. "The heritage, but that "there were no question that had to be answered where near enough priests in was: Is the Church really for the proportion to the number of Chicano people? Was it responsive people." . · and was it a servant of the poor and Saying that "it was not the will of oppressed?" God to suffef oppression," Romero 
Ferranti encourages Trivia Bow-l entries 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 

Trivia question: how does one enter An Tostal's annual Trivia Bowl? Art Ferranti answered that and other questions last night during the An Tostal Committee's weekly meeting in the Breen­Phillips Hall chapel. 
A mid-afternoon event on Gentle Thursday, the An Tostal Trivia Bowl sets 16 students from Notre Dame against 16 competitors from St. Mary's, each side attempting to astound the other with its awesome powers of recall. The content will consist of hour of intense in­terrogation about details from such categories as television, the movies, the comics, and old hit songs. 
Ferranti, the Observer's executive editor and resident TV and movie critic, has prepared hundreds of questions for event. "All I need now," he said, "is the contestants." To obtain these, Ferranti requested, "Have everyone wanting to compete contact me at 8545." 
According to Ferranti, the Trivia Bowl will be divided into four 15­minute quarters in which students from each school will participate. 
The scores from all four quarters will be totaled at the end of the hour, thus determining the champion. 
Feranti noted a new dimension 
has been added to this year's 
contest. "Audio equipment will be 
used to challenge the contestants 
to identify a dozen or so themes 
from movies and televisioo." 
Anticipating that some might wonder why no sports trivia will be asked, Ferranti said of the omission, "It's a tradition, that's all." This category has been considered to offer an unfair ad­vantage for Notre Dame. 
If more than 16 entrants from each school register for the Bowl, on the day of the event "We will operate on a 'first come-first served' basis among those registered," Ferranti explained. 
The Trivia Bowl will take place on the South Quad (on the north side of Alumni Hal!) at 2:30 p.m. Thursday, April 26. To register or obtain additional information, call Art Ferranti at 8545, beginning Sunday evening. He said, "The best time to catch me is between 
9:00 and 10:30 p.m." 

asked that those present consider "reflection and action, prayerful action" as dynamics to a suc­cessful liberation. These two "dynamics" were later defined as "emptying of the self for others." 
Noting that during the turbulent 60's Notre Dame was the sign of the times, Romero classified those present as an "elite", ten percent of the emerging population. He asked that those present, which he called the "Third World" return to help the "First World." 
All a,re called to serve, Romero said, and he asked that the listeners focus on the Church. "We need committed people who can exemplify the Christian value 
ALUMNI CLUB FRI. HAPPY HOUR % 4·5:30 
15' Beers Specials: 7& 7 . 30 cents Bloody Mary & Screwdriver Special 2 for $1.00 
SAT. VODKA SPECIAL All Vodka Drinks 112 price . All Nite (It Can't Be All Bad, The Russians Like It) Also: Live Music from 9 . 2 a.m. Open 8-2 
LAKESIDE THEATRE PRESENTS 
Gene Hackman Angel Tomkins Lee Marvin In 
•





PRIME CUT 
Friday &. Saturday . April 13 & 14 8 & 10 pm Hoi Cross Hall 
II 

Maybe a job isn't what you need. • Maybe you need a career. 
And if you've ever been inter­ested in law, that career could be just three months away. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed over400 grad­uate Lawyer's Assistants in over 40 major cities from coast to coast -after just three months of train­ing in Philadelphia. When you be­come a Lawyer's Assistant, your work will be unlike anything you've ever been exposed to, 
CALL COLLECT to Ms. Carol Brown 

(215) 925·0905 
OR WRITE: 

• The Institute for Paralegal Training Dept. A, 401 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 19106 
work whi-ch has until now been done exclusively by lawyers. The environment is professional: law firms, banks, and corporate legal departments-and the work is challenging and stimulating with plenty of opportunity for growth. 
Lawyer's Assistants are in such­demand that you can· actually choose the city in which you want to work. All you have to do is call, toll-free, to find out what a career as a Lawyer's Assistant means to 
you. 
system to others. Much work remains to be done, especially in the courts in an effort to rid our­selves of the double standard and unequal justice. Much work has to be done to make Chicano power a true liberation," he concluded.
fl-,---------------if

:Jvt.ONTESS() R1: 
I • "J( 
;TCACHER. TR.AININ~ e: 
: 1/ws s~ Ill W"-n CA-'1,.. I: 
I IN ~, ~t\C,U-A'3 ~I 
1 p.,.,.U" .:t.-t FMr;sr (i,_-,,. ~: : ~/8L/) '"' EDtJCA.l"loJ ~I : Jll1t~ lNFt.\z~/110 ~CM-..4f'E.: 
.l.. -------~~!.!-~.!9!..~-J. 
.
.. 


................---------------------------------------­
Far What It's Warth 


THE OBSEJ 
AN INDEPENDENTSTUDENl

Blacks Are Turning 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Editor-in-ChiefExecutive Editor


To South Bend 
NEWS: 283-1715 

Dan Thornton EDITORIALS: 28 Business Manager BUSINESS: 283-7, 
dan ruane 
The very act of\vriting the conclusion or assessment'[ have of the university in the area of minority affairs, not just black affairs. Friday, April 13, H mood of Notre Dame's black students reveals my flank to the criticism To date, the SLC has produced unsatisfactory reports on the that being white prevents me from fullyunderstanding~he conditions proposals. It is questionable whether or not this is entirely the SLC's responsible for their mood. I will accept that criticism in part, but I fault. It may be acting in the true tradition of inadequacy, but I think cannot accept the total arguement that the implications of being white it is more involved. The administration refuses to make a com­prevent whites from understanding)the black experience, or any mitment. minority experiences. This criticism is frequently directed at whites, Also, the adminstration's resistence to sharing facts is reflected in 


Boycott L
and is frequently true in particular instances, but it has its racist the vagueness of the SLC reports. The faculty has had the same element in the assumption that whites do not exrcrier •·e ghetto con­problem. and this is one reason why a faculty union has more than a ditions of poverty aqd rats the wasy minoritie;: ·o, ~me that whites are fair chance of becoming a reality here in the next ten years. incapable of looking at a situation and undt.•rsLan,.:m~ ': reasons and The proposals have been around for several years, only worded Monday afternoon, Notre Dame Unh implications of its existence. differently. The Provost say they call primarily for more com­students are being given a rare op­iSSUI 
I prefer to talk of minorities at Notre Dame in ~~eneral. 0ut because munication. This is not a very deep perception, since black students portunity. They are being asked to vote blan the black population is so large and vocal, I will use them as a base and have been looking for ways to communicate with the Provost and 
whether or not Notre Dame should serve is n•
try to tell the direction I think all minority groups will take if conditions otheradministratorsfor some time. 
only UFW lettuce in the dining halls. igno
on this campus are not improved. The Vice President of Student Affairs has said that the director of 
Their answer should be a resounding yes. the
The mood of black students ranges from the frustration of the senior the black studies program will sit iri on student affairs meetings. This leaders to a deepening bitterness among the younger classes. I think will be in addition to his regular duties. This sounds like an answer to . . brio the frustration will be felt much sooner among the freshmen and the proposal for a representative in the administration, but it is not. The tssue of the lettuc~ b~ycott lS by no the~ sophomores than in the past, because they are more involved in their Last spring the Provost said the director was the most obvious source means a black and white 1ssue. It's a bettl struggle and with the senior leaders. This can only mean more severe of communication with black students by virtue•of the position he complicated, long-running affair that problems for Notre Dame in the future. holds. boils down to an issue of social justice. F1 
One example of the results of the frustration is the Black House, A.full time ~eprese~tative is nee~ed .. Ideally he or she ~ould be able Both the growers and the workers have sum When blacks first became .numerous \lit Notre Dame just a very few t~ com_munc1ate w1th other mmor1ty groups. Th1s would be legitimate arguments but when analyzed Cha· 
years ago, they concentrated on building a firm tradition and foun­p1oneermg. . . th ·' · · b · 
to~

dation in all areas for themselves, and for future black students. This A minority experiences course proposal was squelched for several 1t lS apparent . at ~ustice IS not emg included improvements in contacts with the administration and in reasons,in favor of other approaches. The SLC recommended better served as the Situation stands now. wor non-academic life. I think they were campus oriented, although most use of the orientation period (when everybody wants to get right into bOy4 of their cultural and social resourceswere'located in South Bend. the heavy problems before they know their way around?), making it thit­
Although they are still pressuring for campus improvements, I think known that Black studies courses complete requirements, and for Background 'indio the Black House proposal indicates the black students are beginning to blacks to communicate their experience to the rest of the community 
not;

believe that Notre Dame is no~oing,~o make a place for them beyond as individuals. The SLCreportalso states a lack of high caliber faculty 
reel

that required by HEW, so they are directing their efforts to the South prevents theadditionofminority experience "simply for the purpose of The issue goes back as far as the UFW Bend community. These efforts include tutoring, counseling, and a new requirement." It also says the number of present requirements 
move to unionize grape pickers. When 
cultural events. is small, but there is a reluctance to increase the number. 
Cesar Chavez organized the the workers
But blacks have not given up on Notre Dame. If they had, there First of all, the proposed requirement is not for the sake of adding 
to form a union, the boycott of grapes was
would have been no proposal for a representitive in ·the office of another requirement. It is for the sake of making life a little more student aff&irs ( a proposal considered to be of top priority), there complete and enjoyable through understanding. Secondly, a necessary to force the growers to the would have been no proposal for increasing endowments to minority requirement in minority ,experience has more potential value in our bargaining table. That situation has Tl students, and there would h:,we been no proposal for a minority ex­day to day encounters with others then some required, an­come up again. vote perience course. thropologically oriented theology course which most students leave boyc 
Other minorities on campus are not so large-or vocal as the blacks. uncompleted until their senior year. lettuce are the
The growers now
They prefer to work within their organization to create solidarity Thirdly, Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh has said that the color problem that
represented by the teamsters , but as in
among themselves. Onve they establish this solidarity they try to touches all too few very acutely, and that could be demonstrated by 
the grape boycott, so were the grape
overcome the racist attitudes they face on campus. They also try to the number of students who have not taken a black studies course. 
In

promote their culture by sponsoring lectures and cultural events such i'ourth, a course in black studies does little to acquaint an individual pickers. Farm Bureau spokesmen claim 
of t

as the Chicano repertory theatre group which appeared on campus the with Mexican-American and Native American problems. How is one that the growers for the second straight last week in March. • going to react to lettuce strikes and other migrant farm worker causes, time are using the Teamsters as a coli Hopefully these other groups will grow in number on ·campus. md to Wounded Knee type incidents, except with prejudice, if one does arg1
shelter. They are running to that union so 
However. unless p(>sitive action results from the biack proposals to the not know the factors ·behind the incident and the life style. stat
that they might lay claim· to unionization. 
Student Life Council we can expect to see the same bitterness and The administration's reaction to the black proposals, which also rigll
Yet reports have it that the Teamsters
frustration, and the same turning from campus to S9uth Bend as we speakfortheother minorities, indicates a lack of planning and a lack of 
the) 

now see with the black students. desire to begin long range planning to meet minority needs at Notre are failing to serve their contract. They The SLC was most functional when it entertained the black leaders. Dame. are practicing "benign neglect." For all 
F

By recognizing that the blacks were "unhappy," as onelor.g~ime SLC Perhaps the best way to pioneer would be for all the minority groups practical purposes, the workers are not 
are

member put it, the SLC finally·entered ther real world. We all know it and their white supporters to get together and make visible protests, represented.is a powerless body, but its recommendations in this area have the such as the march on the SLC in 1971 when stricter enforcement of corr potential to carry more weight than any it has made in the past. It is drinking and parietal rules was threatened. Until the students show' a r
In the grape pickers affair, when
charged, by black students, with making Notre Dame a pioneering they are behind the proposals, Notre Dame will be forced to follow in dis a 
negotiations broke down between the
the ruts of wheels belonging to the real pioneers. 
growers and the union, the boycott .was called. The boycott eventually brought
Dpinian the 
Fi

the growers to the bargaining table. Now thethat he negotiations between the growers orgland the lettuce pickers has broken down, the boycott hopefully will force them back to the table.

Blessed Trinity Of. Lyons Hall 
Many of the growers .are screaming about the boycott claiming that it hurts all producers across the country, but
lil•ry carusa imn F 
that's only the way that the issue will be invc 
brought to the table. Industry pressure 
UF1

A large clock in Lyons' first floor corridor slowly slid to 1 : 02 a.m. So good people of our du lac community, Lyons hall is not the villian 
eventually will force a solution. · 
The Lyons Hall lottery was finally laid to rest in the Notre Dame .t is played up to be. In fact, many Lyons seniors were left at the qua history book, and I, Gary Caruso ("the self-proclaimed organizer of bottom of the list just like some of the Farley and BP guys. And after go 1 the pick's procedure and orator of the riot act'') sat bleary~yed and last year's fiasco in Lyons where Badin people participated in the majho&rse with the Lyons hall president and secretary. It's all over, and decision of room picks, and after having those people swing just And that's why Notre Dame should be boy am I glad! enough votes to decide how the selection would be held in Lyons, and in the vanguard of the boycott movement. B
But during the·entire procedure, I couldn't help but feel true com­after those people received the first three picks which resulted in the 
gre

passion for each participant. It was my opinion that Lyons and Farley takeover of the Lyons annex, and after the bitter feelings felt by Lyons As the leading Catholic university were two of the four most-spirited halls on campus, and now all I heard residents-can you blame Lyons residents for voting for a lottery organization in the country, if Notre thei and read was that Farley and BP expected class wars and undesirable which gave them just as much chance as Farley and BP? I don't think firs
Dame should declare itself in favor of the 
hall spirit next year. I can. Uni
UFW, then the issue will be thrown that
What is all this crap? In one breath the presidents of Farley and BP So do me a favor, will you? Take a positive approach to the rigI
much greater into the national
condemned next year's hall spirit, and in another expressed a hope situation. Lyons hall will not be the "Blessed Trinity" next year. 
ord

that Lyons residents could live together amenably and make the best Nobody expects it to be. But Lyons hall will be a combination of this prominence. If national support of the offiof the situation as it has turned out. I recalled the numerous times the year's best-spirited halls on campus next year. And if it isn't the boycott increases, the sooner the two Lyons president invited the new residents to a coffee house-type party BEST spirited hall on campus nextyear,then the residents should hide sides will be brollght to the bargaining a si this weekend. It seemed to me that maybe the Lyons president was their faces in shame. For although I am graduating this spring, I cri.ed table. the only one really trying to pull everyone together. tears of frustration, tears of anger, tears of nostaliga when I 
Let's look at the lotttery as it existed. In the first 'n picks, seniors discovered the choice ofLyonE. •lean sympathize with Farley and BP, from Farley and BP received 12 slots and Lyons seniors pulled only and I hope that they will frequent the parties and activities held here five. That left the remaining twenty to Lyons ~derclaasmen. But it this spring for next year's residents. Set aside the negative attitude 
Still Not an Open Issue
wasn't their fault. Farley and JiP got to pick their numben first, and that in your last month here, Farley and BP residents must only at­
Sc

Lyons was left with the rest. And besides, it wu tbe underduamen's tend their last hall events and reunions; but look positively to your 
issu

last year in their Lyons hajl too. first hall events and reunions as a Lyons Hall resident. 
Singles Qnally ran out at number 153 in a total ol117. But what J The small yellow "smilie" clock on my desk crawled to 4 a.m. and I It is recognized that this is not an for think perturbed the Farley and BP transfers wu tbe fac:t that IOIDe thought about my room going at number 114. Shit, I thought it would altogether one-sided issue though. Many swe of them, being seniors, hpd to occupy a room oat year pnMIIltly go higher than that. And I hoped that nextyearwould be typified by a of the growers who have already signed Mor occupied by freshmen. Well, I've got news for you 1UJ1, tbln are statement one guy made during the three and a half hour room picks, 
UFW contracts are being hurt by the
probably only 20 rooms in Lyons which are considered bad rooma. "We'll, it didn't work out as badly as I expected." 
strike and the boycott. That is why the
And maybe that's even stretching it. 
• 

' 
t 

RVER 
r NEWSPAPER 
Dan Barrett Executive Editor 

13-8661 Joe Butler Advertising Manager 
~73 
.ettuce 
versity has made it clear that the 
e is UFW lettuce and not just a carte 
1che boycott of lettuce. Notre Dame 
ot opposed to the growers nor is it 
1ring their rights and concerns.Yet 
boycott is the only route that will 
1g the two sides to the table and end 
striking and scabbing and bring about 
er conditions for the workers. 
tJ.rthermore, , many Californians and 1mer workers for example, view vez not as the ·sa vior that he appears e, but rather as almost tyrant over the ·kers .. forcing them to strike, to eott, and to leave the fields. Whether :is true cannot be decided, but it does cate that he issue is not a simple one, an open one, not one that can be easily koned with. 
Why 1Use on the Referendum 
hen why should Notre Dame so easily 
~ yes on the issue and decide to 
eott non-UFW lettuce? It's because of 
serious implications of social justice 
t the boycott heralds. 
1 most other fields of labor, the righ~S .he workers to unionize and bargain lectively is recognized without uement. Yet, because of the migrant :us of most agricultural workers, this 1thasbeenignored and only lately have ~ pushed for their right to unionize. 
'urthermore, the growers claim they · not opposed to unionization, just 11pulsory unionization. That's merely nice statement to cover up their .pprovalof handing out union rights as 
other industries do. 
inally, these migrant workers do have 
right to be properly represented and 
anized. They are not now. 
On the Campus Level 
or Notre Dame, the issue has two nedia te consequences. First it will olve a sacrifice of sorts. Because W lettuce is not available in great 
ntities, the students will on occasion without lettuce and salad. Hardly a jor sacrifice. 
• 

~ut the other consequence is of far ·a ter importance to· the students and ir place in the University. It is the .. ;t time in recent memory when the iversity has recognized the students' ht to have a say in a policy of this :er. The referendum comes out of the 1ce of Dr. Faccenda and hopefully it is ign of good things to come. 
The Decision 
o, Monday the vote is to be made. The 1e is certainly a com plica ted one, but the students of Notre Dame the an­~r seems to be clear. Vote yes on nday's referendum. 
Jerry Lutkus 


,­
Exile To Regina 
Editor: 
It seems totally in­
comprehensible to me that Notre 
Dame is asking students to move 
?ff campus because of a deficiency 
m rooms and beds; yet at the same 
time St. Mary's College is vacating 
120 beds from Regina South 
because of a deficiency of oc­
cupants. This asinine situation has 
arisen because our "en loco 
parentis" authorities on both sides 
of U.S. 31 are still having night­
~ares about wild orgies arising from mixed dorms. It seems the term "co-«! dorm" is still taboo in the scruples of our northern In­diana ·fathers and mothers. Co-«! dorms have worked well at other campuses and they can work at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Because of years of forced separation and stereotyped social practices, Notre Dame men have put women on a giant pedestal to be incensed and worshipped. Having lived in a singles apart­ment complex for two years, I can testify that nothing is more shattering to ones romantic image of the female than to open your door at 7 o'clock in the morning and face the girl next door, com­plete with curlers, hairnet, noxema and_ clearasil, asking to borrow some orange juice. Cer­tainly the good sisters across the road will give very logical reasons why such a move could never work with Regina South, merger problems, financial consideration, etc. But come on sisters, admit it, aren't you just a little afraid of the MALE? So it will never be. And this absurd situation will remain a symbol of the ·archaic and strained male-female relationships be­tween the two schools. Until the good sisters can come to grips with the fact that exiled men from from Notre Dame seeking beds at St. Mary's just may want to use them 

daanesbury 

for sleeping once and awhile, males will never grace the hollowed halls of Regina South. Allow me to suggest a com­promise. Seeing the plight of exiled Domers; yet respecting the sworn duty of the good sisters to defend to the death the honor of their charges; I propose: That exiled men be allowed refuge in Regina South and that chastity belts be issued every· night at 11 o'clock at Regina food sales. 
Respectfully, Ken McCandless Graduate student 

Sorry, 
Father Griff 
Editor: 

In Thursday's Observer, the next to the last paragraph of my "let­ter" read: "As it is, I knew well your failures as a Christian." The sentence should read: 'I know well my failures as a Christian." Speaking as I was to the students of Notre Dame, I was trying to thank them for love and friendship conferred on a priest of unsteady virtue. As far as I am concerned, at this happy moment of my life, the failures in Christianity of Notre Dame students are known only to God. 
Monday's Observer quotes me as saying that my dog, Darby O'Gill "was consorting with harlots and Republicans." I don't remember saying it. Darby has all sorts of odd friends, and there may be harlots and Republicans among 
. them, but I'll never tell. The two of us make a point of never bad­mouthingthe other's indiscretions. 
Sincerely, 
·Jobert Griffin, C.S.C. 

Don't Scream At (the) lyons 
Editor: 
Long letters in The Observer must rank with dining hall tacos and verbose poobahs as high on the list of Notre Dame intolerables. So, in offering a word in defense of 
Lyons Hall, I will try to be brief. 
First of all, hall government in Lyons was not "out to screw" the transferees from B-P and Farley. Once it was decided to place all the juniors from those two halls in Lyons, there was no room pick procedure fair to. all sides. Hall President James Dehner decided on a method that would somewhat protect the interests of Lyons residents (to whom he; as president, is responsible) without 
~ seriously, compromising the rights of the incoming juniors. This balance of interests was attempted conscientiously, as anyone who knows Dehner can easily believe. Secondly, the immigration of juniors prevents Lyons residents from advancing in room picks as they have done in the past; naturally this created some hostility. That this hostility-trans­misdirected toward the tran­ferees is unfortunate but not a serious peoblem. The people of Lyons want an amiable place to live just as much as the B-P and Farley juniors, if not more since • this will be their last year in their home. 
Lyons Hall tried to settle things as fairly as possible. Hopefully, others on campus will realize this and not facilely assume that, as usual, someone was out to screw someone else. Hopefully, also, with room picks over, l.vons <including our new residentsJ can live its last male year in peace, except for an occasional hall war with Morrissey. 
Herb Eastman Lyons Hall 



l)arry trudeau 
f 
t 
THE 


OBSERVER 
The Observer welcomes ail 
-comments and opini.ns submited in the form of iPt­ters. All letters must be submq~ed 
to The Observer office, qnd' they must be typewritten, double·spaced. and limited to no more than two pages in length. The Observer reserves the right to edit letters when spatial limitatio•s~ deem necessary. 

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer· · they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
8 

the observer Friday, April 13, 1973 
lettuce boycott 
leanne murphy 

"Among the basic rights of the human sideration the fact that at times, when the person must be counted the right of freely lettuce wholesalers are not able to acquire founding labor unions. These unions should the average 100 cases of UFW lettuce per be truly able to represent the workers and to week ·~ey might have to do without salad a contribute to the proper arrangement of few~ .ys. If the boycott is successful, the economi~ life." t''sl">, ersity might spend approximately 
This statement, quoted from Vaticanll's $hHi1)() more a week for lettuce. In the long Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the run however, the University does not mind Modern World, summarizes the key issue spending the additional cost for lettuce behind the lettuce boycott Klirected by Cesar because the cause is worthy and impending. Chavez and the UGFW. There is a fun­According to Fr. McNally, "The damental issue of social justice involved. University believes it is time for the 
Without the right for agricultural workers,1 growers and workers to sit down including lettuce workers, to organize and negotiate and that the boycott seems In being fair to the growers point of view, unions 1as a means of honest represe~­like the only way to bring this about." He Fr. McNally, in his memo, summarized the tation, the plight of these laborers and their also contends that "Notre Dame must be Teamsters union support for the growers. families will remain desperate. prepared to take the lead in matters like The growers contended that almost all the 
In keeping with the Christian fltmosphere this even though it will involve some heat lettuce workers belonged to a union, the of the Notre Dame community, a referen­and opposition." Teamsters union. Therefore, any dispute dum has been put forth to the students as­against the growers would be a jurisdic­
two-sided issue

king them to vote yes or no in favor ·of tional battle between the Teamsters and the boycotting all lettuce except UFW lettuce UFW. The American Farm Bureau By supporting the lettuce boycott, students The lettuce boycott issue is a two-sided Federation declared any such strike as would be joining forces in the struggle for issue. Both the United Farm Workers illegal. agricultural workers rights -the right to Union and the lettuce pickers, and the California farm workers, according to the organize and bargain collectively and to be growers and Teamsters have plausible growers, were well paid, particulary lettuce strong. contentions. The issue boils down the the pickers who frequently made $4.50 to $5.00 
boycott at ND question, does the UFW and Cesar Chavez per hour. Furthermore, they are well­and followers have the right to boycott and housed, covered by social security, work­
The drive for boycotting lettuce at the strike for their labor rights? men's compensation, and other benefits. Notre Dame community was initiated by They also claim that workers are in no Fr. William Toohey and Fr. Tom McNally of A "no" uttered from deepest conviction is danger of pesticide threat. the Campus Ministry who have been ob­better and greater than a "yes" merely The growers state that they are opposed to serving the issues involved in the boycott uttered to please or what is worse, to avoid compulsory unionization arrived at by since August of last year. They were both trouble. means of boycotts. They believe that the aware that the University had not taken any -Gandhi boycott is unfair because it closes off action on the problem and began a small markets for the whole product covdring all boycott of non-UFW lettuce. However, they After the Delano grape dispute, the UFW growers. wanted the University to take a stand as sought to initiate an agreement between the Lastly, growers complain that even well as student involvement on a large growers and the workers on lettuce farms in though some of them have signed an scale level. Salinas Valley, California. Eight months agreement with the UFW, they are still 
Background information was compiled by afterwards with little progress for a being boycotted against, struck against, and Fr. McNally and then given to Mr. Philip recognition procedure, the UFW broke off endured more stoppages. Mr. Andre Faccenda for approval for a University negotiations, charging that the growers d'Arrigo, of d'Arrigo Brothers Co. of boycott of non UFW lettuce. were not bargaining in good faith. Further America told Fr. McNally that "I am an­
The referendum calls for students to complicating the issue, andddddd anti­noyed, frustrated. I have made a support or oppose the boycott. In the event labor legislation was enacted in Arh.ona and tremendous effort to meet them CUFW and that the student body approves of the other states. Thus, the workers went on unionism in general) half wav. referendum, they must take into con-strike and boycotted all non-union lettuce. They said they wouldn't strike, slow 

digging at the dome 
,. 
Could it have been possible? Prehistoric spent in Niles, Michigan searching for Dave Wagner, a senior in Anthropology, indegenes roaming the beautiful cojun­remains of Fort St. Joseph, courtesy nf a feels the course termed the best bysaying tryside of northern Indiana, southern grant from Clarke Equipment Company in that it isn't a formal ~pe of education but Michigan and beloved Notre Dame!? Well, Buchanan, Michigan. "rather a more viable way to learn only the ground will ever know and this is especially in archaeology which can't be where Notre Dame's second Archaeological area's high potential done from books." Field School will work down from again this The diggers explained the first week as summer. being the most difficult because of the ad­
The Archaelogical Field School, which is From an archaelogical viewpoint, Bellis •justment to manual labor and literally offered as a six hour credit course in explains that this region is strategic getting down to the nitty gritty. Blisters and Sociology and Anthropology, began last because it includes 1three major drainage callouses became common. summer with it's first six week session areas: the St. Joseph-Lake Michigan, the Mark Lynch, also an anthropology senior, under the direction of professor Jim Bellis. Wabash-OhioL and the Kankakee-lllinois describes the first week in general as "Not The field school was conceived to offer a basins. · being so nifty -but it does get better." rare opportunity for original research work "But even more importantly," points out "It's really funny how much dirtyou find and as a unique learning experience. Dr. Bellis, ''is that it is just not an area of that you can't move in one day" notes 
All five students enorlled heartily attest to ecological blending but also cultural Wagner. the course as a very unique learning op­blending since the Great Lake's prime the class day
portunity. travel route a thousand years ago to the 
Guided by the instruction of Dr. Bellis, the Mississippi was through the St. . Joe, four domers and on.St. Mary's theology Kankakee, and Dlinois Rivers." The class day usually lasts 8 to 9 hours major set out for· an oat field in southern This is a major selling point of with each period spent in the field. The Indiana near Lawrenceburg to spend the theprogram since relatively little ex­students are taught excavation techniques, first four weeks of their six week session ploration has been done in northern Indiana field'-record and note-taking, washing and taking advantage of federal funds and a along the St. Joe river and there is the analysis of artifacts recovered, and use of highway project to participate in an ar­potential for exciting discovery. surveying and mapping instrument. cbaelogical salvage. "Besides," be adds, "it's better being out Wagner observes that no one did or should 
As Kathy Meyers, a junior at SMC, than inside during the summer." worry about the work load. "in fact, toward recalls, the first thing she found were Last summer's crew have many fond the end ·or the session, the days were too "chiggers." · memories of the course as allearning tool short," he notes. 
The second two weeks of the session were and fulfilling vacation. .. 


down or boycott and they have done all three.'' · The contentions of those favoring the boycott, meaning the UFW and the workers themselves, seem to contain the major issue of the problem according to Fr. McNally. "The boycott of all 'iceburg' lettuce except that marked with the UFW label is the only way to get the growers to sit down and negotiate." 
many still forgotten 
In addition, although-some farm workers 
enjoy good wages and working conditions, 
there are many who are still forgotten 
and deprived, whether unionized or not. 
Fr. McNally feels that the only effective voice for the lettuce workers is the UFW. He claims that the "growers rushed to the Teamsters as a 'shelter' so that they could say they indeed were unionized. The Teamsters and the Arizona legislation is a victory for the growers but may also mobilize pro-Chavez forces around the country. 
How do the lettuce workers feel about the arrogance of the growers? In an editorial taken from ElMalcriado, March 9, 1973, a worker wrote: "Our movement has its roots in the people and from those roots comes a moral force so powerful that across the world, women and men of good will respond to our call to boycott scab lettuce... With courageand faith, with determination and 1solidarity, we will overcome!" 
tom cfrape 
One of the students who plans to continue 
in archaeology after graduation, Wayne 
Hall, considers field study a very necessary 
experience. He also feels that it is in­
teresting in itself without being a 
preparation for a particular field. 
The fifth class member, Terry Kerestes, 
graduated as a theology major last spring 
and is now at Brigham Young University in 
archaeology. 
excitement of discovery 
The students are also awed by the ex­
citement of discovery and the subsequent 
patterns of detection which they acquire. 
"The first things we found were like 
treasures," remembers Kathy. 
Dave feels that the whole thing of finding 
just minimal evidence and then trying to 
fanatise day to day life during pre-historic 
time can "really unhinge your mind." 
The students have sent two samples of 
their findings for Carbon 14 tests which 
could result in important discoveries. 
Wayne has continued laboratory research 
since summeron samples that they brought 
back and definitely classifies them as pre­
historic and dating sometime before 
European contact. 
second session 
The field s~hool will being it's second 
session on June 29 and continue up until 
August 9. Students from any field of study 
are qualified to participate whether an 
undergraduate or graduate students. 
Funding for this summer's session is 
being provided by the Lily Drug Company 
so that work may begin specifically in the 
northern Indiana area which couldn't have 
suited Dr. Bellis's wishes any closer. He is 
currently involved in a site survey to find an 
excavation silitht. 
A complete brochure on the field school is 
available at the Sociology department's 
office. There will also be a general meeting 
this Sunday at 8:00 p.m. in the Library 
lounge for anyone interested in the course. 
Even though you may not find anynative 
ancestors (although you just might), the 
Archaelogical Field School may provide an 
unexperienced and unique learrung and 
living opportunity. 

,,. 
Struggle with Soviets 
Lithuanians resist attack on faith 
by Llnas Sldry$ .First of two parts 
It may ~m ironical ~·.an ob: server that· the Uthuanians, the last pagans of' Euro~ to acee,t Christianity, are e~aged in t determilied sttuggle to keep theil' Catholic faitll at a time when secular materialism seems to be the prevailing ideology of the times. 
_ A follower of Hegel w~uld con-
' elude that they are merely con-· ·. seri,ative, r6uct8nt to progress 
. through · the mythological­religious-positive stages ()f ; humanity. A political man would -... denigrate .the whole question Of .·. religious worship per se· and focus exclusively on· tQe political con-. sequences of religious affjliation .. Only a person ~f :faith · can penetrate .to the r~l ~th of the ideals of religious fllttij 'and un­derstand to some ex¥ntwhy these people s.truggle to oofattPfJll to the Christian meaning ~f ltle. The Lithuanians settled by the Baltic SeE. 3,900 B.C.; contact With Christiaility came in the· eleventh century, Catholicism from · the west and the Greek Oi.thodox faith. from the east. The intentions of the missionarieS to spread lhe gospel peacefully were soon over­shadowed by the more avaricious tl)e faithful. The two remaining desires of the German Teutonic bishops are under house arrest, Knights for land and pllinder. there are no monasteries or con­Despite continuous conflict with vents, ~ive times as many pries~ the kni~hts for 150 ·years, the die each year as are allowed to be Lithuamans nevertheless,. em-ordained and priests are con­braced Catholicism. When the tinuously harrassed and frequently Reformation swept the descen-imprisoned. Catholic organizations dents of the Teutonic KBights into and publications are prohibited ProtestantisQl, th~ Lithuanians and no Bibles or prayer books are remained R'!>man Catholics. . available · In the days of freedom before · TAe major attack continues to be World War I, "Lithuanian". ~as ·.on the clergy. Presently only five almost synonymous w1th or six new seminarians are "Catholic"; with a population ?f allowedtoen,ter.eachyear; twenty 3,~.~· 95 per cent of ~e ethnic to thirty pre-Soviet priests die Lithuaruans were Catholic. In 1940 annually. Students must get state there were 10~ churches, 73 permission to enter, those who are monasteries, 12 bishops, and 2,800 especially bright and of high moral religious-_se~g the faithful. The· character face special obstacles. four semutanes had an enrollment As has ·been done in the Greek of. 470. About 800,_000 lay ~e Orthodox Church, the party tries to belonged to var1ous Cathohc get its own· . men into the societies; every Catholic priesthood. When. the Lithuanian organization had its own bishop refused to ordain two publication, with a totJ!l~c':llation seminarians who were really KGB 
Jlle CathoDe CJJurclJ 
In Litnuania is condemned to dJ"e 
I# 

•.•• ----------·---------------·· 
of 7,000,000.. So extensive was agents· the party . chairman Catholic influence in the country refused' to let the other two that in 1939 Pope Pius XII called seminarians receive Holy Orders. Lithuania "the front line fortress In a letter to the'USSR 'Council of of Catholic faith in northern Ministers, forty priestS of VilniuS Europe." protested: "The Catholic Church In 1940 this "fortress" was oc­in Lithuania is condemned to die cupied by the Soviets. Since then The facts bespeak this.. ~" · their major aim, in the only Concurrent with the decrease of Catholic coUntry in the USSR, has priests, churches, bibles and been to destroy the Catholic catechism booklets is "the stepped Church. The originally brutal up psychological and economic tactics of murdering priests and pressure on the lay people to bishops, . burning churches and renounce the Church and to joindeporting whole communities to anti-religious groups. These Siberia have now been replaced by militant atheistic groups use the the more subtle means of at­classroom, the press, radio, leC­tempting to destroy slowly the tures, reports, films, museums and ecclesiastical structure of the the theatre to spread their Church and the perseverence of propaganda. :"Religion," thel 







AlAR'S 
Big Boy Family Restaurant Now in your area 
5286il U.S. 31 North (in front of Ramada Inn) '172-·crno 

struggles, careful explanations, numerous petitions and stirrbig court-room defense speeches are recorded in the underground Chronicle of the Lithaanian
St. Ann's Church (left) is a six­
CatboUe qiurch, which has been
teenth century Gothic structure in 
reaching the free world since last
Vilnuis, the capital of Lithuania. 
year. Despite great harassment,
Archbishop Teofiluis Matulionis 
and in· the face of possible
(below) was martyred in Siberia in 
retaliation, 17,000 Lithuanian
1946 and will be soon canonized. 
Catholics signe<l a. petition enumerating the injustices they have suffered and demanded equal rights and' equal protection under the Soviet Constitution: 

"After W.W.II nations have risen from the ruins and desire a per­manent peace. A genuine peace is grounded. on, justice and respect for human rights. We, Catholics of Lithuania, painfully deplore the violations of the believers'\freedom of conscience and the persecution of the Church that persists in our nation to this very day ... " 
Monday: Specific incidents from The Chronicle that illustrate the repression of the Catholic Church in Lithuania 

constantly hammer, ''is the moS't hannful remnant of the past, it h4ls fused the national and religious viewpoints into a single ideological battlefront.'.' It is the chief an­tagonist of the 'Communist­scientific concept; a. worn-out notion; an opiun; a virulent growth; a snake whose teeth must be drawn out." 
Tfie effeet of sucti vigorous propaganda remains to be seen. However, the story has come out of Lithuania of one boy who ran to church to thank God for doing well on his atheism exam. It has also happened that the members of an atheist society fell on their knees and began a hymn when an ex­priest enteJ:ed to give his lecture; afterwards, the embarrassed group explairied that they thought he had come· to hold a· service. Such incidents suggest that much of the people's participation is 
COntinuous low-keyed insidious · religious persecution has sparked the · many public protests which have occurred recently in Lithuania, including the largest 
demonstrations ever to occur 
I 
within the USSR. The Lithuanian Catholics have realized that truely, 
without priests and churches, without doctrinal and theological classes, without missals and catechism booklets there is a very real danger that the persevering devotion of the faithful will 
flag. The faithful have realized that.they can no longer accept the.. injustices and numerous wrongs with the Christian silence of the wrongly accused. The bishop has repeated: 
"The stones will cry out..." 

Start your weekend at... 
Bulla Shed 
. ( Cor~r of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) 
Mass and Dinner 

THE MAGIC FLUTE \., 
"\ 

THf_; NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE ... Mozart's comic opera Produced in association with the Si. Mary's College Music l)('pt. April 6,7,12,13,14 at 8:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium, St. Mary's 
Students·" Faculty -Staff $2.00 R 
hypocrisy. 1• _______...,..
.._.., __

nothing more than enforced~• ~·==~==~=~~es~·e~rv=a:ti:oos=:=284-4=:1:76===::::;;;;:;;;.:~ 
r-M_a_.:ny:._o=.:_f_,..:,:th.:..::e.:..::ir_.=c.=,:ou:,r.=:ag:.::e:.=,ou:::.:s~==='=$====e=e==l=n=tg~!==U=e=S======·=ple=O=e=r=!· 

WHITE SOX TRIP Sunday April 15 -Leave 9:30 a.m. from Circle 
.. 

SOX vL KANSAS CITY 
$10 includes ·Bus Ride ·Beer on Bus ·Reserved seat for garrie 
Sign up TODAY 3rd Floor LaFortupe or call 
Leon Bean 418 Morrissey 3651 Montigue 149 Morrissey 3479 To Get Refund Stop at LaFortune or call Leon. Saturday is last day for refund. 
SAVE up to 50 per cent on FLYING LESSONS SAVE up to 100 per cent on GROUND-SCHOOL SAVE up to 40 per cent on FLYING TIME 
Movies every meeting, Field trips, Refresh­ments, Speakers and Gala Sociar E'!ents!!! · 
s 

MEETING APRIL 16 RM 12 


AERO SPACE BLDG. 
7:00 P.M. (due to concert) Th • M f • G f fAA S k 
_.............-----------------------------­
I I IYD'II ,..,... II 1~1 171-J

IV IIIV UI.IO»VI VVI 
France to get Pi··h.~. works 
by Nan Robertson 
(c) 1973 New York Times 

Paris, April 12-Pablo Picasso'sl second wife and only legitimate ~ son announced through his lawyer 1 today that his priceless collection \ of works of art by other great 
modern painters would be given in its its entirety( to the French Nation. 
Personally chosen and bought by Picasso since the beginning of the century, the assemblage includes important pictures of Matisse, Braque, Degas, Van Gogh, Cezanne, Leger, Modigliani and a fewearlierlllasters. The gift does not include Picasso's vast hoard of his own art. 
l 
The decision taken Tuesday by Picasso's widow, the former • Jacqueline Roque, and Paul Picasso, his son by his late first 
1 
l 
Wife, was disclosed here this af­ternoon by Roland Dumas, the family's lawyer. 
Dumas said Picasso's two direct 
I 
heirs were "carrying out a wish" expressed by Picasso during his lifetime. He died Sunday at his villa in Mougins on the French Riviera, aged 91. He left no will. 
The sole condition demanded by Picasso in giving his collection of other masters to the French nation was that the works be displayed together in the Louvre and shown to the public, his lawyer added. 
On learning of the gift, Hean Chatelain, director of national museums;.,aid today: "Ifany man in the world knew what painting was, it was certainly Picasso. A collection gathered· together by such a painter is of the highest interest. There is no question of breaking it up." 
Asked whether there might be difficulty in showing the collection at the Louvre since the museum rarely has exhibited contemporary pictures, Chatelain answered: 
"The essential fact of a coHec­tion is that it exists. Picasso's can 
Student Assembly allots $1000 to cm11pus groups 
Student government ap­propriations were the main order of business at last nght's SMC student assembly meeting, with $1,000 going to two campus projects. 
Five hundred dollars in student government funds were allotted to the newly-formed Coffeehouse, operated by campus ministry and several students. Redecorating and refreshment expenses will be covered by the funds. 
Another five hundred dollars was. appropriated to Holy Cross Hall for a special project originally planned for An Tostal weekend, but ldue to an open house sponsored by the College that same weekend, 
, tentatively rescheduled for the I first Sunday in May.
l. 
The funds will go toward the cost • of a band and refreshments at the t affair, which will be open to all 
,. ! I ; Notre Dame and Saint Mary's.' fl stum:nts. Acc~rding to Holy Cr~ J ~~ President Gail Pocus, no details 
have been finalized yet. . 
, Student Body President Sue 
! 
1 Welte also announced that the · \' proposed male visitation policy 
~ was passed by the Student Life 1Committee, a subcommittee of the 
•· Board of Rlegents, by a vote of 14 to\\7. The new policy would provide \·for an extension of the present \'visitation hours to 7:00 p.m. to 
. midnight on Fridays, noon to midnight on Saturdays, and noon to 10:00 p.m. on Sundays. The sign­in procedure presently in effect will be retained under the new policy. Final decision will be
) 
~ 
handed down on the proposal at the May meeting of the Board of Regents. Last night's meeting was the last of the year for the present 
Assembly. Elections for new. assembly members will be held around the first week of May. 
Annual festival 
of native culture 
slated tonight 
International Students of the 
University of Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's College will sponsor 
their annual International Festival 
this Friday at 7:30 p.m. in 
Washington Hall. 

Julio Baez, sophomore science student from Puerto Rico, is serving as general chairman of the event which brings together many of the 350 foreign students from more than 50 countries in an exhibition of dance, song and l native 1costume. 
Chinese students have issued an invitation for Miss Chinatown of Washington, D.C. to perform traditional dances of her country, Baez reported. Other Chinese students at ·Notre Dame will participate in a "Lion Dance." 
Students from India Will perform in a folk dance, "Ras," and Latin American students have organized a musical group to play songs of their native land§, including the favorite "Mexican Hat Dance." 
Linus Sidrys,a member ~f Notre Dame's Baltic Society, has asked a Lithuanian dance group, popular in this country and abroad, to participate. The United States will be represented by a -local bar­bershop quartet. 1 
The public is invited and ad­mission to the festival is free. 

NICKlES 
Special Spring _Blow-Out 
I. 
12 oz. cup Schlitz 25~ Schlitz quart 95~ 
l I 


928 N. Eddy 
~ 
I 1) j _;
,. 
only be one of first-ranking im­portance." 
In 1971, honoring Picasso's 90th birthday, some of his own pain­tings were displayed in the grand gallery of the Louvre. It was the first time the museum had ever exhibited work by a living artist. 
Dumas met this week with Madame Picasso and Paul Picasso at the artist's sombre chateau in Vauvenargues, near Aix-En­Provence, where his body now lies. 
It is expected that Picasso will be buried thee at a later date 

iiJ~r C!htlonial Janrakr Jfou.sr 


"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 





FESTil#IL 
1973 
WASHINGTON HALL 
7:30 p.m., Friday April 13 
• 

lnternationaI Students Organization Notre Dame -St. Mary's ADMISSION FREE 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
April 12-14 
12th--Concert: Cannonball Adderly, Richard Hatcner, Charissma Dancers, Julius Farmer Quintet, The Bill Nix Trio and the CJF fudges' combo. 
Stepan Center 7:'0 pm $5 at the door. 1'th··Opening Session of the CJF-·7:'0 Stepan 14th--Afternoon Session: 1:'0 Stepan·· 
7:'0 pm Evening Session. 14th--Midnight Jam Session with CJF Judges' Cornbo 
Tickets: All Session ticket $6.00 Friday, Sat. afternoon, Saturday il1ight, and fam session: $1, $2, $4, $2, respectively. Dining hall sales Wednesday. 
Judgea: Dan Morgenstern, Gil Evans, Jimmy Owens, Joe Farrell, Hubert Laws, Roy Haynes, Alvin Batiste. 
Bands: MalcOlm X, Texas Southern, Ohio State, Ohio U., Tennessee St., Wisconsin at Madison, Indiana U., M.I.T., Michigan, Governer's State, Triton College, Bowdoin College, Notre Dame, Indiana State. 
Tickets available at CAC office and American Nat. Bank and Branches 

Faley's thinclads host Buckeyes on Cartier 
Tbe Notre Dame track team will ran a sub-50 quarter on the mile face the Ohio-State Buckeyes in its relay squad. Faley h~ to enter oply borne meet of the season the Highland Heights, \KY · senior $ifurday at 1:00 p.m. on Cartier in four or five events Saturday Field. including the hurdles and triple 
Rain and poor track conditions jump. at the Kentucky Relays last Mishawaka Marian's Mike ~kend didn't help ·Don Faley Hogan has matched his high vault pre~re his trakcmen for this ' already , but he will be facing tough contest against the some very sfiff competititon from Buckeyes. Ohio State's 16-8 pole vaulter, Jim 
Ohio State features excellent Green. personnel in the sprints and field 
events-the two Irish weaknesses. One of the key match-ups will De To compound the problem, several between two Irish performers ­sprinters and weightmen have NCAA Cross !Country finalists, moved back onto the gridiron as Marty Hill <Indianapolis,\ INl and spring practice began for the Notre Dan Dunne (Chicago,'IU. Hill beat Dame football squad last week. Dunne in the three-mile run last 
"If we. get continued good per-week; the first time the Notre formances from our distance men Dame cross country captain has we. will be competitive in these ever been bettered by a teammate. events," measured Coach Faley. IFreshman Jim Hurt <Westchester, "However' we have suffered some • IL and sophomore Mike Housley key injuires 'including the main-<Toronto, ONTl round out the Irish stay of our distance program, Mike distance entrants. 
Gahagan <Madison, WI)." Bob Schott (New ~Canaan_, CT> 
Irish captain Tom McMannon is and Vic Pantea (Portage, IN> will running extremely well as be joined in the quarter-mile and evidenced by his good showing at 600 by Pittsburgh prep standout Kentucky. McMannon placed Don Creehan. Creehan will be 

.\'third in the 120-yard hurdles and trying to equal his 1972 best mark 
Irish netters sweep pair, return to ND for three 
by John Fineran 
The Notre Dame tennis squad bounced back from its !Hl loss to fifth-ranked Michigan with a pair of 8-1 wins at Ball State on Tuesday and DePaul. The victories lifted 

-the netters' record to 4-5 going into this weekend's home matches with 'Cincinnati, Indiana State and Kalamazoo. 
The Ball State win was a satisfying one as it was held in­doors on a particularly fast, hardwood surface. Mark and Paul Reilly, John Carrico, Brandon Walsh and captain Rob Schefter all recorded wins in straight sets. The double tandems of Chris Kane­Schefter, Walsh-Carrico and the Reilly brothers added the final points to the win column against the Cardinals, now 6-4! 
DePaul, which had lost its opener to Wisconsin, a team which defeated the Irish 7-2, dropped to 0­2 after yesterday's match. 
The Irish will again try to get outdoors today at 1:00 p.m. against the strong Cincinnati Bearcats. The Bearcats bring a 12-1 record (they had a match earlier this week with Indiana) to the Courtney Tennis Center and are last fall's Central Collegiate Tennis Tour­nament champions. Number-one singles player-John PeckskamP. a junior with a 10-3 record thus far, will be looking to avenge a fall defeat to Notre Dame's Chris Kane. The Irish beat Cincinnati in the regular season last year S-4, but the Bearcats avenged the loss 
by the same score in the tourney. 
Indiana State and Kalamazoo will conclude the home weekend for the Irish on Saturday. State 
(9:00 a.m.) returns five of six regulars from last season, headed by seniors Mike Kuhfield and Gary Smith. The Irish beat State 8-1last year and 7-2 in the fall tournament. 
Kalamazoo (2:00 p.m.> will be out to avenge last year's 7-2 loss to the Irish. The Hornets return seven lettermen, including seniol'!; Willard Washburn, Tom ·.Thomson Gary Gudelsky and Kirk Beattie. 
Frosh tennis senation Rick Slager will possibly be available for today's match and Saturday morning's encounter with State; both do not interfere · with his football practice. 
Starts. 

of :49, as wen as  anchor the mile  Fmegan who has run :49.S during  for first place in the shot put.  
~ay ~uad. P!Wtea .has been tmprovmg steadily t_his season after knee S';Ul'ery ~. th~ fall hampered hts _condt.bonmg. However, the ':Jish will face a  the indoor season. Other top peformers for Ohio State include 4:08 miler ·Mike Rurley and weight man Bob Rodgers, who had a toss of 50-10 at  Tht; field events are scheduled to begin at 1:00 p.m. Saturday on the outdoor track behind the ACC. Admission is $1.00 for adults, $.50 for children. Students are free  
to  opponent m Buckeye Terry  the Kentuc  lays -good enough  upon presentation of an  ID card.  


CLASSIFIED .ADS 
LOST AND FOUND 
Dark green-colored paperback. SUMMER EMPLOYMENT DIRECTORY OF THE UNITED STATES·· 1973' EDITION. Also, separate beige-colored SUP­PLEMENT to same. PubliShed by National Directory Service. Finders and-or users please return items to Placement 
Bureau. Other students are asking for them. 
Lost: brown umbrella at LaCrosse game last Saturday near Stepan Cntr. Call 5776. 
Reward. 
Lost: Gold Seiko Watch, reward. Phone 8845. 
Lost: Girl's brown glasses near ACC or Library, call 5246. 
PERSONALS 
The NEW AGE OF DECADENCE endorses the BEAUX ARTS BALL Friday 13th 9:30-2:00 
Poopie, Happy 20th -Hope the Bengals don't keep you from making it to 21! Your No. 1 fan, MAK 
Start your weekend at Bulla Shed with Mass and dinner. Across from Grac_e Towers. 5 m Friday. 
NOTICE 
ALL STUDENTS PRESENTLY SIGNED UP FOR NOTRE DAME AVE. APT'S FOR SUMMER OR SEPT. 1, 1973 
CALL MR. FARMER 272-7656 
Doors 

• WIIMM 301 ~ MI(H ~I 
Open 6:45

~··2811800··
Tonight 

1\JTT}' ~VVfTl~)' & ()IC~ MNIPSI4. J()Gflli(~ AT lAST! 

RIDES WANTED 

Ride needed to NYC or Conn. Can leave anytime after April 13th. Call Dave 3679. 
Need ride to Cleveland for Easter, can leave Tuesda'( afternoon, April 17. Call Greg 1336. 
Need ride to Phila., S. Jersey for Easter Break. Call Ken 3679. 
Ride to East Lansing on April 18, call 8423. 
Need ride to NYC on Wed, April 
18. Call Jay 1654. 
Two need ride to PGH., April 16 after 4:00. Call Bob 3537 or Rick 3597. 
Need ride to D.C. desperately. Call Don 1059. 
Desperately need ride to Con· necticut for Easter Break. Will share expenses and driving. Call Jim 8886. 
Ride needed to Midland, Michigan, or anywhere near Tri· City area next Tuesday or Wednesday 5330. 
Two need ride to MILWAUKEE Fri, Apr. 13. Call Paul 8276 or Rick 8284. · 
Ride needed -N.Y.C. -L.l., can leave April 15th, call Jack 8732. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh Friday April 13. Call 4648. 
Ride needed -East 1-80 to Youngstown, Ohio -western PA. Anytime after noon Monday 4-16. 
Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale on April 13th or 14th. Will share S and driving. Call Goose. 6756. 
Ride needed to Detroit (Grosse Pointe) on Tuesday April 17. Will share expenses and driving. Please call Pete at 8253. 
Two need ride to Cincinnati for Easter. Will pay expenses. Call 8921. 
Need ride West on 1-80 to Central 
Illinois_ Can leave Wednesday, call 8038. 
Two girls desperately need ride to Chicago area for Easter. Call Mary at 5115 or 4716. 
Girl needs tide West on 1-80 to Moline Illinois, on 17th or 18th. Call 4635. 
FOR SALE 
JVC amp, 2 Sansue Speakers worth over $800, take It away for S550. Call 1670. 
Two S5.50 James Taylor tickets . $10.00, call 287-6010. 
FOR SALE: VIVITAR 135mm Telephoto lens, 2.8 with case. (fits Nikon mounts) sso. Call Rick 8284. 
For Sale -Ping Pong table. Very good condition, reasonable price. 
Please call 233-3893. 
Sansui 4000 pr Advent Spkrs. $375, 8944 Eric 
For Sale: 3 eight week Irish Setter pups. AKC reg. 5464 Marsha. 

AKAI 250D tape deck and library -$275; DUAL-SHURE 1215­M91ED turntable complete-$105; FISHER XP55B speakers -$60 pr.; KLH MODEL 27 receiver ­$1~5; SONY 250D tape deck-$70; MEMOREX 1800 tape, new, sealed -$4.15 ea. CALL 234-2536 alter 5. 
Graid, reel-to-reel tape deck plus 15 tapes, sao. 288-4297. 
For Sale New Raleigh Bike 3 speed White Call Ted 8575 
NOTICES 

REMINDER: to SMC girls Who signed up to abst•ln ft"om mNt for the benefit of tiM El Complto Day Care Center; It Is TODAY and SATURDAY. 
Free ride to Iowa. Thurs. Alarll 
19. 233-1329 • 
SAVE YOUR Bit • Placement Bure•u ordered American Colleat•t• Summer Employment Guide on Mllrdl a 
Booklet has not yet •rrtved, ~ when It does you c•n 11M lt. Bureau currently has av;ull other directories and listing summer domestic and o jobs. ~ , ASK FOR THEM At
1 
Room '222, Aqmln. Bldg. 
Summer storage · reasonable prices, 6. years experience with 
N.D. New bldg. High-dry. Can pick up-deliver to llall. Reserve early. Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
Typing . Experienced in essays, theses. Phone 232-9061. 
Morrissey Loan Fund closing April 27. Pay all outstanding loans. All unpaid debts will be turned over to Student Accounts with extra SS.OO charge. 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM­MUNITY, CALL 7789 W-Th-F, 8-10 pm. 
Beaux Arts Ball: Fractured Fairy Tales Architecture Bldg, Friday, April 13, 10-2. Tickets on sale in the Architecture Library or at the door. 
ELECTIONS' for GSU Officers this Friday, 12 noon in 127 N.S.H. Manditory attendance for all Gept. Reps. 
N D Students and Faculty I Because the response was so great to our last 2 ads we are now offering 15 percent off on all tune­ups and other repairs. Call 272. 9676 anytime or stop by Rollin' Wheels Sunoco 17955 State Road 
23. (across from Greenwood's Shopping Center.) 
PITT CLUB EASTER BUS. Reminder: The bus leaves from the Center for Continuing Education Wednesday April 18 at 
1:00 pm. The bus returns from Pittsburgh Monday April 23 at 5:00pm. 
FOR RENT 
Off campus -room for girls-close to N.D. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004, 
Want privacy? Rooms $40 mo. 
233-1329. 

.4 bedroom house, wall to wall «:arpeting, completely rurnlshed, near campus, Grads Only. 289­2461. • 
Adjoining 2 + 4 bedroom homes for rent summer or fall. Fully furnished ; near campus. Call collect 115-842-4463 
WANTED 
Wanted: One dirtball for Beaux Arts Ball publicity stunt. $10.00 7644. 
Good typist would like to type student papers. Call 232-7227. 
Two guys need housemate from Sept. '74 thru Dec. '74. 1st semester only. Call Rich at 272· 8189. 
Wanted: Nude dancers for Beaux Arts Ball. Call ie 7644. 
We need summer housing for 4. Will sublet. Call 7812. 

• 
... 
Housemates Wanted for the 
Summer. House is walking I distance from campus. Call 233­9616, ask for Don or Jack. 
Wan ted: housing · ac­commodations for faculty comint~ for Summer Program in Pasto·al and Social Ministry -June 24-July 
21. One family -2 children; one 

..
family-6children. Week of July 8 -one family, 4 children. Call Msgr. John Egan.s office, 283­3293. 

Wanted: 3·roommates, Srs, large house, great location, huge double, big single. Call Oenn"y 3180 or Chris 233-7931, address 1035 N.D. Ave. 
Wanted: Belly dancers and topless waitresses for Beaux Art Ball. Call 7644. 
Riders wanted EAST along lnd· Ohio-Penn. Turnpike to WaShington D.C. Leaving Fri, Apr. 13. Call 8213. 

Stickmen-rally,edge Wolverines 
goal late in the period, but with six .• 
by Andrew Scantlebury 

seconds left in the half, Kickowski ·scored his third goal and the Irish 
Throughout their undefeated ..
looked doomed. Itcould have been 
,

worse however as goalie Simmons has shown versatility in its vic­
campaign, the Irish lacrosse team 

came up with 11 saves to keep the game within reach.
tories. There was the clutch win over Bowling Green, and the of­

The third quarter was scoreless fensive explosions against Dlinois as Simmons and Cotter hooked up 
and Ohio State.· And last night in in an old fashion goalie's duel. Ann Arbor, Michigan the Irish 
Defensively, though, the Irishproved they are capable of the began to take control. With Geoff miracle finish. Down 5-2 in the Lyden, George Carberry, andfourth quarter Notre Dame staged Ernie Bergkessel bearing down, an amazing rally to nip Michigan, the defense not only shut out the 6-5. The victory leftthe Irishwith a Wolverines, but prevented at­6-0 mark and an excellent shot at tackmen Bissel and Holman from 
the Mid-West Lacrosse Club taking a shot.
Championship. 

"Geoff Lyden was great today,"Notre Dame opened the scoring 
goaltender Simmons said after the at 7:44 of the first peridd when co­contest, "he covered his man.well 
captain· Rich Mullin· took a Joe in the second half and this was theAndersonpass and fired a quick key defensively. Our middies and shot past Michigan goalie Timmy defensemen played super defenseCotter. The rest of the half was 

Michigan however as the in the second half. We knew we Wolverines staged a shooting could stop them, I just waited for exhibition at Irish goalie Paul the !offense to explode." Simmons. Middie Jim Kickowski 
Simmons didn't have to wait long tied the game with an unassisted as attackmen Bill Dacey scored aeffort at the 12:18 mark. 
pair of early fourth quarter goals. Then Mullin, the senior attackman 
Twenty-nine seconds later at· from Hicksville, ·New York, tied 
tackman Don Holman gave the Wolverines the lead. The game the game at 12:35 and then won it A four-goal surge in the last period of Wednesday's game with Michigan gave B.J. Bingle and the ND 
50 seconds later with his fourth 
stickmen a 6-5 triumph.
• c~ntinued_and so did Michigan with goal. Mullin had the unenviable 1 
been stronger in that position.
K~ckowsk1 a~d attackman Steve task of replacing the graduated Ed 
The Irish are on the road again 
B1ssel scormg early second Hoban· on attack. Nevertheless, 
this weekend, facing Bowling
quarter goals. Notre Dame cut the. -with Dacey, Mullin, Anderson, and 
Green on Saturday and Purdue Q~.
Michigan lead with another Mullin B.J. Bingle, the Irish have never Sunday. 





OBSERVER
Yonto fronts ND's defense 
by Greg Corgan 

itching for a starting slot at end well he comes off the knee. He has At most schools, spring means and Yonto\has high hopes for both excellent quickness. Mike Kadish 

SPORTS
baseball and tennis and golf. But of them. Jay Achterhoff is another and Larry DiNardo both came off here at Notre Dame with the second-teamer who is working surgery and had good years so beginning of spring workouts, hard and shows\ a lot of promise. we'll just have to wait for the 
attention shifts once again to the This year Yonto has also ex­doctor's OK and see about Steve." ,number one Irish sport-football. perimented with linebachers Tim Although rumors of new And inevitably, as anxious fans Sullivan and Tom Devine at defensive realignment in the form 
a Sailors win B. G. Regatta,
argue back and forth, the topic of defensive end. Sullivan had ex­of a five-two or five-three defen· 
discussion becomes the defensive perience at the position last year sive front have been subjects of line; because an outstanding · and although Devine was injured considerable discussion , coach 
defensive line has become as much in last week's scrimmage he Yonto pointed out that this would 
take on Detroit this week 
a tradition at Notre Dame as ' should be ready by the fall. merely entail using the five-man The Notre Dame Sailing Team of the firsts in that grouping. 
football weekends themselves. 

A big concern of Irish football front already employed py the · won the 12 school Bowling GreenThis season, as for· the past eight 
fans is the.status of Steve Niehaus. Irish last year. Race team captain Bruce Marek 
Regatta, and took second at Ball
seasons, the job of rebuilding the Niehaus, who has been working "We have been working with the skippered in B division with Bill
State this pastweekend. Kevin
front four will be handled by out, but without pads, will "five man front but we've done this Reed being his crew.. Saturday's
Hoyt, former racing team captain,
defensive line coach Joe Yonto. probably be sidelined for the entire throughout the years. There's no racing started off in very light
took low point honors in A division 
There aren't any better in the spring. problem adjusting wit. The tackle winds, which picked up only
at Bowling Green, with Becky
business because. since he arrived "He seems to be one-hundred on the right or left side just moves moderately as the day went on. At
Banasiak as his crew. He sailed ahere with Ara in 1964, Joe Yonto 
percent," Yonto noted, "but you to nose-guard and the linebacker the end of the day Notre Dame was
good, consistent series, with ahas turned out more All­have to remember he's coming off on that side moves to end. We've 
Americans than any other line third place finish being ' his worst just a couple of points behind 
surgery and we want him to get his used it all before." 
out of six races. Cincinnati. Sunday morning sawcoach in the game. such greats as weight down and get the doctor's Yonto did add that a switch to the winds which were strong enough toAlan JPa_ge1, Kevin Hardy, Mike OK before he starts playing again. pro-type 4-3, which was used last Junior Neil Barth and George
McCoy, Walt Patulski, Mike whip up whitecaps on Prairie
We don't feel it's as important to year against Air Force and Gaw shared the skippering in BKadisli and Greg Marx are all of get him into practice right away as Southern California, might change division, with Chris Gallagher Creek Reservoir, where the the Yonto mold. regatta was held. Four races were
it is to make sure his knee is things somewhat. crewing for them.• Barth had .aSaturday's scrimmage was the completely healed." "If we use the pro-typedefense first and two thirds, which held that day, for a total of 16 in the 
first glimpse Yonto's given of this we'll+ have to concentrate more on
Because of the publicity he has bolstered the Irish dominance in two divisions, but Notre Dame was 
year's version, and the first team receivedWootball News has named reading coverages and adjusting to the regatta. Ohio State finished unable to catch Cincy. Host school consisted of George Hayduk at him a pre-season All-American), the run with three linebackers. 
second, and Oshkosh was third. Ball State finished third in theright end, Jim Stock at left, and there is question as to whether Other than that I see no major regatta.
Mike Fanning and Kevin Nosbusch Niehaus might be under too much changes. We experiment with Following the Bowling Green at the tackles.. pressure this season. Coach Yonto different defenses all spring and Regatta, part of the team went This week's action fP~tures the 
"Hayduk, Fanning, Nosbusch doesn't think so. it's done with the idea of helping down to Ball State, and placed Wayne State-stroh's Cup Regatta and Stock have done a steady job "The only pressure he feels right the offense adjust to what they'll second in that regatta. Jon in Detroit, in which Notr<: Dame for us," he said. "So far I'm now is the pressure he's exerting see during the year, and exposing Makielski and AI Constants split and Michigan State are defending 
pleased with their performance." on himself to get out there. He the defensive players to the dif­the A division, accounting for half co-cham pions. 
Of course, all of this could can't stand to sit on the sidelines ferent type sets so that we can vary change by September 22nd. Jeff apart from all the action. How well from game to game as the ·need Hein and 'Tom \ Fine are both he does this year depends on how arises. We've been pleased with 
our defense over the years and 
there's really no need for change. 
"The one problem has been that the backup people on the second and third teams aren't pushing the first four for those starting spots. 
"Competition for positions is a 
great thing. If the men on the 
second t~am challenge the people 

·> on the first unit and make good, they'll be in there. It's on a day by day basis. You have to continually prove that your're the best or somebody will replace you. "Per­formance wins the job." 
Joe Yonto's theory on spring practice is simple and right to the · point. "Spring is just lining them up. Getting the personnel together and working comfortably is our main purpose these few weeks of practice. We experiment a lot, trying to find out who can go where and who can do what and getting things in working order." 

Come September 22, it can be Two of Joe Yonto's former pupils, end Walt Patulski and tackle Greg guaranteed Joe Yonto will have Marx, bear down on Northwestern's Maurie Daigneau. things in working order. 


RANDALL'S INN TRAVELODGE 
Nothern Indiana's Favorite Meeting Place Presents 
JEAN SUMNER, vocalist , 
at the ORGAN and PIANO 
in 
THE HARP PUB 
Every Tuesday through Saturday starting at 8 PM 
130 DixieWay South South Bend, Indiana Phone 272-7900 
0 





