
On The Inside 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 49 Friday, Novembfo.-16, 1973 




New Calendar 
The university releases its 1974-75 school calendar ...page 3 


Special Suppliment 
A close look at just what goes into a campus daily 
... after page 8 


Rector Views 
The NO rectors: how do they see the campus today? ... page 12 

Badgers Come 
Notre Dame once more faces off against a national champ ...pages 15 and l6 
J. the observer Friday, November 16. 1973 

warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI)--President Nixon, barking on a public campaign to clear his name of the stain of Watergate, told 4,000 cheering businessmen Thursday that "I was elected to do a job and I'm not going to walk away until I get that job done." 
Flashing his campaign-style "V" sign with arms out­stretched, the President extolled his major achievements this year and listed inflation and the energy crises as tow problems he was busy solving for the future. In a 30-minute speech before the National Association of Relators that was interrupted six times by applause, Nixon blamed Watergate on the mistakes of ··overzealous people" in the 1972 election campaign--"mistakes I would not have approved of, mistakes I would not have tolerated. but mistakes for which I must accept responsibility." 
WASHINGTON (UPil--The House voted Thursday to spend $1 million on an investigationinto whether grounds exist for the impeachment of President Nixon. 
After a bruising partisan battle, the House voted to increase by $1 million the budget ot its Judiciary Committee to conduct the study. Eleven impeachment resolutions have been in­troduced. many of them citing Watergate scandals and the firing of special prosecutor Archibald Cox as reasons for im­peachment. 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-Vice presidential nominee Gerald R. Fm·d, facing his toughest questioning yet, told a House com­mittee Thursday there is evidence President Nixon has a credibiHty problem and, if confirmed, Ford will work to solve it. 
The 'ienate Rules Committee, which previously questioned Fon!. meanwhile initiated possible perjury action against a lobt-yist who disparaged Ford's ethics. The Senate committee also decided to •rote next Tuesday on the nomination of the Mh·higan Republican as vice president. 

WASHINGTON <UPU--A federal judge Thursday refused to dismiss criminal charges against Egil "Bud" Krogh Jr., who headed the clandestine White House "plumbers" unit. 
The decision, handed down in a written opinion by U.S. District Judge Geralard A. Gesell, cleared the way for Krogt to oe tried on two counts of making false de~::Jarations-similar to perjury-in connection with a Watergate grand jury's in­vestigation of plumbers unit activities. 
Meantime, the Senate Watergate Committee was told that American Airlines contributed $55,000 illegally to President Nixon's 1972 campaign not to buy favors but for fear of what might happen if it didn't. American's former board chairman George A. Spater testified that, "It's like the old medieval maps that show a flat world and a 'terra incognita' full of terrifying animals on the fringes. It's an unknown world with a lot of beasts in it and you don't know what the beasts are." 
NEW YORK <UPI)--8tock prices rebounded slightly Thursday after four straight sessions of sharp declines on the New York Stock Exchange. The turnaround developed in the early af­ternoon after the Senate reiected a measure that could have led to gasolim.wationing by Jan. 15and the Commerce Department announced a $2.1 billion surplus in the nation's balance of trade for the third quarter. 
Te Dow Jones industrial average, which had been off about seven points at midday, closed with a gain af 4.67 points at 
874.55. That ended four consecutive declines that had carried the average of 30 Blue Chip stocks down by almost 63 points since Nov. 8. 
AUSTIN<UPil--An all-white jury Thursday convicted Darrel 
L. Cain, a former Dallas police officer, of murdering a 12-year­old Mexican-American whom he suspected of being a burglar by shooting the youth point blank in the head. 
The jury will return Friday to decide whether Cain killed the \·ictim. Santos Rodriguez, with the malice. The penalty for r.lUrder with malice t·anges from two years to life in prison, without malice, it is two to five years in prison. 

an campus taday 

friday, november 16 
-1:30pm--colloquium, "holomorphic vector fields", room 226 computer 
center. 6 p.m.--dinner, notre dame senior girls., faculty dining room, south dininq hall 
7:30 pm--reilly lecture, "hydration enzymes", room 123 nieuwland. 
Band 10 pm--film, "fists of fury",engineering aud., $1.00. 
B pm--bridge, university club 
saturday, november 17 
2:00pm--basketball, varsity vs. freshmen, a<:c. 50 cents. 
7:30 pm hockey, nd bs. wisconsin ace. 
8 and 10 pm--film, "les amants", engineering aud. $1.00. 
sunday, november 18 
2:00 pm--meeting, science fiction association, 2-d Iafortune 
8 and 10 pm--film, "les amants" ,engineering aud. ,$1.00 
8:00 pm--lecture,dr. tak ho liaospeaks on acupuncture, library aud. free ' 
monday, november 19 
7, 10 p.m.--film, "hamlet", eng. aud. 
monday, november 26 
7, 10 p.m.--film, "othello", eng. aud. 
+1

,. ''1' a;, j • ~ I• • t J• 0 " ! of It J I ~ J •' t I •' , • ~·. j• •f i I' t ' II , ~ t ~ I' 11 1 +I •• • ;. ' i 
. • t l:'•l· ~ .... •.: J.;... . . . • .' 
U.S. military affected 
Arab embargo cuts petroleum supplies 
The Observer is publish~ daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents ot the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
WASHINGTON <UPil -The Arab oil embargo has denied the U.S. military nearly half of its petroleum supplies and forced it to invoke a little-used act giving it priority over civilian users, the Pentagon said Thursday. 
Arthur I. Mendolia, assistant secretary of defense for instal­lations and logistics, said the Defense Department would have to niake up its loss of 300,000 barrels of foreign oil a day from domestic supplies. 
He disclosed that the 1950 Defense Production Act had been invoked on Nov. 1 for the first time to force petroleum producers to meet Defense Department requirements before filling civilian orders. 
Major reductions have been made in military operations, he said, but one to two per cent of the already shrunken domestic supply would have to be 

,.•·-~. 
diverted to the armed services. 
Of the foreign producers who previously supplied more than half the services' daily require­ment of 650,000 barrels, only Iran still allows sale to the United States, he said. 
To meet the crisis, he said: -The 300,000 U.S. troops in Europe and the 60 ships of the 
U.S. 6th Fleet in the Mediter­ranean have been forced to dip into their war reserves. 
-Military flying hours have been cut back 18 per cent. 
-Navy ships have been ordered to reduce steaming days 20 per cent; ships returning from overseas will lower speed; and ships based on the continental Atlantic and Pacific coasts will spend 54 days out of every three months in port. 
-Armed forces vehicles have been put under a 50 miles per hour speed limit. 
46556. 

609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 

There are 347 designs 
in the Vanity Fair 


diamond catalog. 
(We can-save you 50°/o 
on all of them.) For more than 50 years we've been in the dia­mond business-importing, designing and manufacturing -selling directly to dealers. 
Our prices have always been among the lowest. And now we're offering college students the same great sav­ings. 
How much savings? On an average, about 50% Jess than anybody else's price. And for the skeptics among you, we give a money-back guarantee in writing. 
But why not see for yourself by visiting our showroom or sending tor our free 44-page, full-color catalog. 
Our diamond showrooms are at 55 East Washington, Chicago. Or . _ . 
send for the proof. 
r-------1/am 
id' _., 
tllmib'.Fbirl)kunoods 1 
I 
55 East Washington St.,Chicago, Illinois 60602 ' 
Send me the proof; the free Vanity Fair catalog. 
j
I Name___ _ __ J 
J Address I 
J City _ State _Zip____ I 
I 


~h-=----------J
VANITY FAIR DIAMONDS 
CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP 
,, ., '• .: : .·. ' ~ \ ; "'• ') 

(THE OBSERVER) 
( The Calendar ) 
Friday, November 16, 1973 Page 3 
Burtchaell: new calendar is 'extremely reasonable' 
University Provost Fr. James Burtchaell last night called the new Academic Calendar an "extremely reasonable" plan. Speaking on WSND's weekly Contact, Burtchaell said the calendar was the product of serious con­sideration "at much greater length than any student protester would give to the subject." 
The calendar, which includes the start of classes before Labor Day, has drawn criticism from several students and faculty members. 
"I don't think dissent before the fact has much · value," Burtchaell commented. "We're working on well thought-out convictions. They may be w1·ong, but we'll only know that they're wrong after we've lived with it." He added that the plan would not be reconsidered in light of possible protest. 
negative aspects 

The Academic Council, which officially released the calendar today, considered at least 30 negative aspects, he said. 
"Labor Day," he noted, "was the largest single problem. It was with great hesitancy that we made such a significant change. But we were trying to fit in a decent semester between two terminal dates, Labor Day and Christmas. We were finding that it was simply too pinched." 
Responding to charges that the early start cost 
students working days, Burtchaell said that the 
choice had to be "a matter of balance." 
"Certainly it is important for students to be 
able to maximize summer income every year, as 
our expenses increase every year," he con­
tinued. "On the other hand, what is the income 
earned for? It's earned for the learning ex­
perience at the University. If on the one hand, 
we are persuaded that fatigue minimizes the 
value of time near the end of the semester, we 
have to balance that with the fact that starting 
early minimizes or at least curtails earning power." 
A semester without a break, he charged, is "too relentless." Studies produce fatigue and require rest periods, he added. 
"We feel that in pastyears,going all the way to Thanksgiving left the people too worn out, faculty as well as students. We tried this year to have a very short semester break, actually just a long weekend. We're going to try a longer semester break more toward the middle of the semester." 
Students who objected to a similar fall break two years ago, he noted, not only took advantage of the Spring break but, in many cases, "left early in order to lengthen the break." 
"minor problems" 
Problems with leasing of off-campus housing and with travel time over the mid-semester breaks did not pose problems substantially different from those faced already, the provost continued. 
Football games scheduled over the mid­semester break is also a problem, he said. 
"We tried to get a calendar which didn't in­terfere with student convenience in attending those games. If the calendar turns out to be satisfactory with its new change, then I expect we can turn it around and co-ordinate future game arrangements with our break." 
other topics 
Burtchaell also explained the formation of a committee to complete a "major history" of Notre Dame to be ready for the university's 15o­year birthday in 1992. The committee will be composed of faculty members and will extend current historical studies into "the Hesburgh era," he said. 
He also announced the completion of a report from the Committee on University Priorities which will appear in the December issue of Notre Dame Magazine. 


IHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIWIUIUIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIHIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.. 
FALL SEMESTER 1974 
Aug. 24-26 Aug. 27 Aug. 28 Sept. 1  Sat. thru Mon. Tuesday Wednesday Sunday  
Sept. 2 Sept. 3 Oct.11 Oct. 25-Nov. 3  Monday Tuesday Friday Fri. thru Sun.  
Nov. 4 Nov. 14-21  Monday Th. thru th.  
Nov. 27-Dec.  Wed. thru Sun.  
Dec. 2 Dec. 8  Monday Sunday  
Dec. 13 Dec. 14-15 Dec. 16-20  Friday Sat & Sun Mon. thru Fr.  

Orientation and Counselling for new students. Registration for all students. Classes begin at 8:00 a.m. Formal opening of the school. year with 
Concelebrated Mass. (Subject to change.) Labor Day (classes meet). Latest date for all class changes. Midsemester Report of Deficient Students. Midsemester Holiday begins after last class 
on Friday. (Note: Oct. 26 (Miami-home game), Nov. 2 (Navy-away), Oct. 28 (Veterans Day) & Nov. 1 (All Saints) included in vacation period.) 
Classes resume at 8:00 a.m. 
Advaance Registration for Spring Semester 1974-1975. Thanskgiving Holiday begins at noon on 
Wednesday. Classes resume at 8:00a.m. Fe<>st of the Immaculate Conception (Classes 
meet Monday, Dec. 9) Last Class Day. Study Days (no examinations). Final Examinations (Grades due 48 hrs. after 
exam is given). 
~ ..• ••,•' • • 6 • • I,' •

......, t.1,·, ...,, ..... 11 ,,. :' ;\ 
,.; • • • • • • " ....... # •••• 
Registration slated before Labor Day 
The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College have adopted an academic calendar for 1974-75 which includes their first pre­Labor Day start of classes. 
Orientation and counseling for new students is scheduled August 24-26, with registration August 27 and classes starting Wednesday August 28. 
Starting classes early, College and University administrators noted, will enable a nine-day 
midsemester holiday from the end of classes Friday, October 25, to the start of classes Monday,
November 4. 

Fall term classes end December 
13, with exams scheduled December 16-20. Spring tern1 
starts January 15 and ends May 6, with exams scheduled May 8-13. Commencement in 1975 is set for 
. 

Saturday, May 17, at SaintMary's and Sunday, May 18, at Notre Dame. 
In changing to a pre-labor Day start, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame join a trend in higher education which has seen the number of schools using such a calendar grow from 205 in 1968 to 860 in 1972, according to an American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Ad­missions Counselors survey of 2,475 institutions. The so-called "early semester" calendar is now the most popular in American higher education, according to the survey. 

Dr. Edward L. Henry, president of Saint Mary's and Rev. James T. Burtchaell, provost of Notre 
Dame, also announced that they have established an inter-
institutional calendar for the period 1975 through 1977. "A common academic calendar, the two noted, "is necessary to the f t f th f 1 t d t
u ure o e sucess u s u en 
h h h d 
exc ange progran1 we ave a 
since 1965." 
Today's 

Observer will 
be the last 
until after 

Thanksgiving 

SPRING SEMESTER 1975 
Jan. 13 Jan. 14 Jan. 15 Jan. 21 Feb. 10-14  Monday Tuesday Wednesday Tuesday Mon. thru Fr..  
Feb. 17 Mar. 6 Mar. 10-19 Mar. 21 Apr. 1 Apr. 10-17  Monday Thursday Mon. thru Wed. Friday Tuesday Th. thru Th.  
May 6 May 7 May 8-13  Tuesday. Wednesday Th. thru tu.  
May 15 May 17-18  Thursday Sat. thru Sun.  

Orientation for new students.  
Registration Day.  
Classes begin at 8:00a.m.  
Latest date for all class changes.  
Enrollment reservations for Semester 1975-76 (Payment of required).  the ?  Fall fee  
Washington's Birthday (classes meet).  

Midsemester Reports of Deficient Students. Room reservation for Fall Semester 1975-76. 
1

Easter holiday begins after last class. 
l

Classes resume at 8:00a.m. 
Advance Registration for the Fall Semester 1975-76 and for the Summer Session 1975. 
! 
Last class day. Study Day (no examination). 
J 
...

Final Examinations. (Grades due 48 hrs. after exam is given. No Sunday exams.) 
Graduating student grades are due. Commencement Weekend. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHiffiiHmtnllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-111111--•~IIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
the observer Friday, November 16, 1973 

b tht'rl' ~oing to be a Pep Rally for the Air Force Game; if so, wht>n? 
The plan. as it now stands, is to hold a pep rally in StepanCenter on Wednesday night, November 21, at 7 p.m. The band, to the best of our knowledge, is expected to be there along with all senior varsity football players. The program is to include the introduction of all -;£>nior players and, hopefully ,a special guest speaker who per­:"onally knew the late Coach Leahy, either a member of his im­r,t'diate family or just a friend. As of now, this is the way things :<tack up. It also should be noted that there is an effort underway fnr an outdoor rally on Tuesday, but this effort is separate from the Stepan Center event scheduled for Wednesday. Finally, the Air ~'orce ~ame itself is being dedicated in honor of the late Coach Ieahy. 
\\ho do I talk to about donating food for Thanksgiving Baskets? 
Chris Amato who lives in 400 Morrissey is the student co-ordinator in charge of the operation of which you refer to and can be reached at 3638. His t'fforts are under the guidance of Fr. David Schlaver of the Student Act-ivities Office. 
h. tht>rt' a way ont' can send a telegraph by phone? 
Ca II 800-325-5200 which is a toll free number to get a telegraph sent and a bill mailed to you. 
\\'ht'n is An TOll tal scheduled for in the Spring'! 
An Tostal is slated to be held on the weekend of April 18, 19, and 20th. This is a Thursday thru Saturday period. For further details one should get in touch with Pat McLaughlin at 3693. 



Violence on upsvving in troubled Ireland 
By FRANK JOHNSTON 

BELFAST (UPI) -The Irish Republican Army's Provisional wing attacked a police station at Keady, County Armagh, Thursday with gunfire and bombs, seriously wounding an officer, police said. 
Later, a bomb planted in a car blasted a busy street in Belfast's Roman Catholic Lower Falls Road area Thurs­day night, injuring 15 persons. 
Police  said  none  of  them  was  
seriously injured.  
A passerby  reported  the  car  

and police were trying to clear the area, crowded with evening rush hour traffic, when the bomb exploded. 
In Londonderry, a youth fired eight shots from a pistol at a security checkpoint, wounding three soldiers, none seriously, an army spokesman said. 
The policeman was injured in a pair of explosions set off outside the station, 37 miles southwest of Belfast. 
The blasts at the police station were followed by a 30­minute exchange of gunfire with soldiers inside the building during which a Russian-made rocket was fired at an army helicopter circling low, missing it, police said. 
Sporadic gunfire echoed Thursday in Roman Catholic areas of Londonderry where IRA guerrillas attacking a British patrol during the night killed 14-year-old Kathleen Feeney by mistake, the British army said. 
The girl, sister of a member of the Londonderry city council, was the second Catholic acci­dentally slain by IRA gunmen in 24 hours. 
Her death raised the fatality toll in four years of. strife among Northern Ireland's minority Catholics, majority Protestants and security forces to 903. 
Another Catholic, 61-year-old John Lundy, died early Wednes­day in Belfast after he strayed into the line of fire of IRA gunmen attacking a British observation post. 
Traffic into Belfast was disrupted during the morning rush hour when two bombs were discovered in an aban­doned milk truck on a main road. British explosives experts defused them. 
Acuna to speak on Chicanos 
"Political Ideologies and the Chicano Movement" will be discussed by Dr. Rudolph Acuna of the San Fernando Valley State College history department at 7:30 p.m., Tuesday, November 27, in the faculty lounge of the Memorial Library. 
The lecture, is free and open to the publc. It is part of the Notre Dame department of anthropology and sociology's Mexican­American Lecture Series. 


.. 

--~~----------------------~---__, 
University concerned 
Students' evaluations important for faculty 
by Jack D'Aurora Starr Reporter 

"Obviously, students can't be 
given the last word as to who's 
going to be hired, who's going to be 
fired, but we would like to think 
that the students' views on the 
teaching characteristics of the 
faculty can be made known," 
stated Assistant Dean of Arts and 
Letters, Richard Thompson, in 
reference to teacher evaluations. 

"The university is concerned that 
the classroom instruction be done 
as well as it can." 

The instrument for evaluation was drawn up a few years ago by a committee consisting of faculty members from all of the colleges and students. It was then sub­mitted to all faculty members for criticisms and recommendations. The form is in two parts: an essay evaluation and a computer grid sheet. 
"The aim of the evaluation is the improvement of teaching. The essay section, seen only by the teacher, gives every student the opportunity to comment anonymously on the strengths and weaknesses of all of his teachers," . continued Thompson. 
"We can't guarantee that the 
P.ASTEL PORTRAITS 
a unique gift 
from color photos $15 
PICTURE FRAMING 
reasonably priced 
ERICA'S 
on the balcony of Thieves Market 2309 E. Edison Sat. and Sun. 10-6 

teacher will take these things into consideration, but if there is a consensus reached by the students, we would think it would be im­portant to him to consider the things he might do to improve the teaching," Thompson added. "We know there have been changes in teaching p1·actices and in­troduction of different materials as a result of these essay evaluations." 
The computer grid sheet sup­plies the deans and department chairmen with information as to a teacher's personality, his knowledge of the subject he teaches, and the structure of his course. "When there is a con­sistent failure on the part of the teacher to reach the levels that are reached by the majority of teachers here, the chairman of the department has an obligation to talk with the man to make sure he does something about improving the level in which he teaches " continued the dean. The results ~f the computer sheets are compiled by the beginning of the second semester. 

Thompson would "like to see the teachers put more emphasis in this thing." "If the students, as a whole, feel that the teaching is inadequate then they'd better let us know, and the only formalized way is through the use of the in­strument that we liave provided." he concluded. 
We Specialize 
in Candles! 
·Novelties 
·Tapers 
·Columns 
·Hand painted 

Incense Greeting Cards 
'" 

Candle Making Supplies 
Appealing Gift Items 
THE CANDLE TREE 
in the 100 Center Mishawaka, Indiana 256-0550 Owned by Tom Schmitt, Class of '66 
SUPER SlACKS! 
Haggar creates them ... for you and your way of living. You can pick and choose from solids, plaids and fancies in a great selection of colors and colorings. Let's hear it for Haggar! 
$1
from 


ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
~-------------~---------­
Friday, November 16, 1~73 the observer 
5 

According to Brother Ryan 
No energy conserving in effect on campus 
by Melissa Byrne Staff Reporter 

"The University has not yet formulated a policy concerning the conservation of energy on the Notre Dame campus," said Brother Kieran Ryan, assitant vice-president for business affairs. 
Ryan expects an elaboration of federal conservation standards and state guidelines to be released early next month. "At that point the University will cooperate so as to be consistent with the outside world." said Ryan. 
The University Power Plant can burn coal, oil and gas. "Coal is our primary fuel supply. However, we do use a little oil/' said William Ganser, chief engineer. Ganser indicated the University is being allocated oil at the same rate as last year. 
"We anticipate the situation will grow worse," said Ganser. The Notre Dame Power Plant uses gas in the summertime because it is more economical. 
"Power conservation cannot be carried on from the power plant," said Ganser. "The conservation has to be done from the consumer end, that is the students, faculty and administration." 
Ryan said a possible conser­vation measure may be the ex­tinguishing of outside library 
Motels filling up 
For New Orleans reservations 
by Ann McCarry 
Staff Reporter 

Now is the time to make plans to accompany the fighting Irish to the Sugar Bowl, in the event that the bid is extended and accepted. Sources report that almost all of the major New Orleans motels and hotels are booked up already for the New Year's weekend of the game. 
Most hotels are booking for a three-or-four-night minimum only, demanding full cash payment onreservation. No credit cards are being accepted. Rooms in the French Quarter run about $80. Others can be found for around $30 to $40. 
Rooms are going fast, and a lack of accomodations may drive fans to locations such as Baton Rouge which is 80 miles away, or Mobile: Alabama, 180 miles away. Students are reminded that New Orleans is noted for having strict vagrancy laws. 
Authorities advise students planning to attend the bowl or spend the weekend in New Orleans to take plenty of spending money and be forewarned: drinks on Bourbon Street run between $3 and $4. The famous Pat O'Brien's pub, however is just around the corner and is reputedly very hospitable to Notre Dame students. 

CILA Christmas card drive considered success 
The CILA Christmas card drive was a success, according to Mary Beckman, CILA secretary. 
"We sold more than 40,000 cards which is more than twice as much as we sold last year," she said. 
---. 

The funds from the Christman card sale will be used to support CILA projects. These projects include caring for the aged in Mexico, tutoring in Mississippi, working on an Indian reservation in South Dakota and administering _ to the poor in the West Indies. 
Because of the Christmas card response, Beckman said, "We're reconsidering the projects we worked on last year and evaluating ones for next year." 
CILA is considering expanding to new projects in Panama, Ap­palachia, and New Orleans. A new 

CULTURAL 
ARTS 
CDMMISSION 
resents 

tutoring program has begun in South Bend. 
"This year we are beginning to tutor chicano high school students in South Bend," Beckman ex­plained. "And we have another project with the elderly in South Bend. These are just the begin­ning." 
Fr. Don MeNeill, theology professor and CILA advisor, will offer a course next semester in the sociology and government departments entitled, "Religion and World Injustice." Although the course is not a CILA course, Beckman expressed the hope that students interested in CILA projects would take the course. 
CILA is sponsoring a series of speakers and films ain1ed at in­creasing the educational and consciousness of Notre Dame. 

Bruce lee 
every limb of his body is a lethal weapon in 
Fists 
of Fury 
Thursday and Friday November 15th and 16th, 8&10 pm in the Engineering Auditorium. 
++Admission -$1.00++ 
lights. ··we probably won't be illuminating the library because these lights are not a safety fac­tor," said Ryan. They are merely decorative. 
"However, we could not forego any campus lighting because these lights are necessary safety measures," Ryan added. 
Ganser indicated air-conditioning may have to be limited this spring and sun1mer. "We can limit air-conditioning by furnishing less cool air," said Ganser. "But with electric power it's either go or no go." 
No conservation policy has been determined for St. Mary's College. "We will be moving into a program which will be compatible with what the country is expected to do in terms of conservation," said Sister Basil Anthony, SMC vice-president for campus affairs. 
Other universities in the area have adopted policies to comply with President Nixon's 1·equests for energy conservation. Michigan State University President Wharton announced heat will be reduced to 70 degrees in MSU residence halls, classroom and office buildings; amount and hours of fresh air circulation in MSU campus buildings will be reduced and heat supplied to sparsely occupied campus buildings will be cut back during term breaks. 
President Henderson at Ohio 
State University issued a similar 
statement. However, Henderson 
appointed a committee to study the 
energy crisis as it affects the 
University. Also, Ohio State 
University motor vehicles are requested not to exceed a maximum 50 mile per hour speed limit. 

The OSU st~dent newspaper, The Lantern, said the University is in no immediate danger since they have their own physical power 
plant and enough extra fuel to supply a 10 day back-up if an emergency develops. 
Indiana University President John W. Ryan asked the chan­cellors from the various campuses within Indiana University to submit reports on the remifications of closing down their enti_re operations for a short period durmg the winter months. The administration also announced there will be no Christmas lights on campus this year. 
C~nservation activities are nothmg _n~~ to Indiana University. T~e Ubhhes Conservation Com­nnttee at IU reported saving $150,~ in their six months of operation The committee cut down on lighting in the library reading rooms and residence halls and on the outside lighting of buildings. 

Hairstyling ... with style 
+Award Winning Stylists 
+Unique Atmosphere +Rottler Styling and Products 
KEN'S DEN 
First Floor, 100 Center 
Mishawaka, Indiana 
Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 
SUNDAY MASSES 
Main Church 
5:15 pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30am Sun. Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. James D. Shaughnessy, C.S.C. 
12:15 pm Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Bud Drinkers, can you figure this out? 
J~e walked into a bar one day wanting to buy 4 quarts of Budweiser®. His fn~nds B~b and Fred were less thirsty and wanted to buy only 3 quarts each. This part!cular bar ~old only J?ud® on tap, and either in 3-quart pitchers or 5-quart pitchers. Us1?-g these p1tchers as measures, pouring the Bud from one to the other, how did the bartender measure out exactly 3 quarts for Bob 3 quarts for Fred, and 4 quarts for Joe? ' 



---~.------~ 
6 

the ob~¢rv·e'f Frida,y, _N~v,embel' 16/197_3 
$300,000 added 

Reactions vary over salary budget 
Outstanding architecture projects are being shown at the ISIS student gallery. 
Architect projects shown 
by Paul Colgan Staff Reporter 

Surprise, delight and confusion appears to be the faculty reaction to Fr. Theodore Hesburgh's an­nouncement Tuesday during his talk to the faculty that he was l'Onsideringadding $300,000 to next 
, year's faculty salary.budget. All those approached by the ob~erHr welcomed the anti­mflation move but with reser­\·ations because thev weren't sure \\·hat Fr. Hesburgh specifically :ntended to do with the money. "I think that it is a confusing issue at the moment," replied Brrnard Waldman, dean of the College of Science. "It's good news. though." he added. "People usually go to his speeches ex­pecting something.'' · \\'hen asked for a clarification Qf his proposal, Fr. Hesburgh 
Final countdo'Wn on Skylab 3 liftoff 
By Charles E. Taylor 
CAPE CANAVERAL (UPI}--The final countdown began late Thursday night for a 9:02 a.m. Friday liftoff to send the Skylab 3 astronauts into space for the holidays. 
With floodlightsplaying over the giant Saturn rocket, the countdown resumed on schedule at 10:59 p.m. EST after a last long hold to give the iaunch crews a rest. 
Astronausts Gerald P. Carr, Edward G. Gibson and William R. Pogue went to bed early to be will rested for their planned 9:02 a.m. blastoff. 
They will be making the longest manned space flight ever, and the last by American astronauts 
before  the  joint fiasco  with  the  
Russians in 1975.  
The  mobile  service  structure  

was rolled back from the 22-story booster rocket during the evening the evening and shortly after the countdown resumed, ground crews working under a criss-cross of search light beams began preparations for loading more than 150,000 gallons of liguid hydrogen and liquid oxygen into the Staurn 
18. 
The astronauts got a final medical checkup and fle~T-38jets Thursday morning then spent the afternoon 
and 
by R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 
Outstanding architecture projects from the past eight years are being shown at the ISIS student gallery. 
The "Visionary Architecture" display was designed by Ken Knevel, a fifth year architecture student, and the Architecture 
department  in  an  attempt  to  
illustrate  the  quality  of  art  in  
futuristic  design.  According  to  

Gerald M. Beckles, a fourth year art student, the exhib!t ·oc:>rJtains declined to comment. 

Other sources within the ad­ministration felt that because Fr. Hesburgh's proposal came as .a surprise to everyone, inducting his fellow administrators, he was probably "thinking out loud." 
One source observed that in regards to how the money will be used for faculty salaries, "He <Fr. 
Hesburghl  is  the  only one  who  
knows."  
Joseph  Hogan,  dean  of  the  

College of Engineering; felt that Fr. Hesburgh's explanation as a move to combat inflation was significant. "Fr. Hesburgh's comments show he realizes the problem and wants to do something about it." Hogan replied. "The challer.ge facing the whole university is meeting the inflationary pressures on salaries." 
"For the College of Engineering, 
the countdown rolled along. Smaller-than-usual crowds gathered to watch the take off. 
Egan captures frosh presidency in SMC election 
by R. Thomas Thues Staff Reporter 

Sue Egan won the Freshman class elections yesterday cap­turing 138 of the 251 ballots cast. Her running mates were Maureen Tomshack, vice president; Nan Jenkins, secretary; and Kim Reiken, treasurer. 
Egan's opponent, Mary Ellen 
Carter, received 92 votes leaving a total of 18 abstentions and 3 invalid ballots. Carter's running mates were Liz Coughlin, vice president; Beth Costello, secretary; and Mary Costello, treasurer. 
According to Election Com­mittee Chairperson Patti Kampsen the voter turnout was 50 per cent of the freshman class. 
"I would have liked to see a bigger turnout, but 50 per cent is relatively good," said Kampsen. 
Kampsen thanked. the students for their cooperation during the 10 
a.m.-6!,.,. 
"plans that made an impression on the faculty." 
All models in "Visionary ar­chitecture" are constructed to scale. The hope of the Art and Architecture departments is to project the compatability of the two disciplines. 
Among the most outstanding projects is the 1967 Warren Fellowship drawing of a futuristic living complex by Michael James Plantz, a former student. 
Further information can be obtained from Knevel through the Ar.chilecture· department. · 
the priority for the budget is to keep salaries moving up but in­flation outstrips us," Hogan ex­plained. "What we consider successful efforts are hurt by in­flation." 
As to the specifics of Hesburgh's proposal, Hogan siad, "It is hard to put in context without knowing the status of overall finances. You have to have the overview he has.'' 
"a move on faith" 

Dean of the College of Business Administration Thomas Murphy said F1·. Hesburgh's proposal "was very clear proof that the President (of the university) gives very high priority to the faculty in the university. "He is putting it Cthe surplus operating cash) where he feels it will do the most for the university." 
Murphy offered as a precedent for Fr. Hesburgh's proposal the commitment last year by the University to underwrite the whole Blue Cross-Blue Shield health care insurance program for all faculty members and their families. 
Murphy noted that the proposal to put the $300,000 into the salary base meant a longterm com­mitment by the university to maintain a higher salary range. This would take strict economy all throughout the budget he added. "There could be a point in time in the future where we could face no across-the-board increases. 
Fr. Hesburgh's proposal was for Murphy "a move on faith that we will be able to keep up with the salary increase." 
As a sidenote, Murphy men­tioned "There is hardly a man here who couldn't make more money in another endeavor, especially with their level of education." He felt the faculty's "Love of this life and love of the work" gives them a strong devotion to their teaching duties. The university realizes this and to help as much as they can according to Murphy. 
"Delighted to hear about it was the reaction of robert Waddick, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. He welcomed the plan of putting the extra money 
Shakespeare Film Series presents 
Tony Richardson's 
HAMLET 
WITH 
NICOL WILLIAMSON 
MARIANNE FAITHFULL 
Engineering Auditorium Monday, Nov. 19 4pm 7pm 10pm 
into the salary base because "I would prefer it over a couple of years." 
Waddick cited the fringe benefits, such as the Blue-Cross­Blue Shield coverage, as factors that made up for the cost of living raise expected by not received the year before. 
"just keeping up" 
Professor Dennis Dugan, chairman of the Department of Economics and President of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP), felt the proposal was not enough. 
Given the current rate of in­flation, 6 to 7 percent, the salary increase is "just keeping up with inflation," Dugan replied. Fr. Hesburgh's proposal of using the additional $300,000 for salaries wuuld give an approximate average salary increase of 6 per cent. 
"Things are measured in terms of the rate of inflation and you just can't come out even," Dugan 
Cinema 7 4 presents 
Les Amants 
(The Lovers) 
the original uncut version 
Saturday and Sunday November 17th and 18th, 
at 8 and 10 pm in the Engineering Aud. Admission 5 1.00 *Patrons Free* 
replied~'Compared to others in the economy, we are stagnating." 

If the salary increase came dQwn to a question of attracting and maintaining a good faculty, Dugan noted "It's not a good selling point to say Notre Dame keeps up with inflation." 
Dugan was unable to attend Fr. Hesburgh's talk because of a class conflict but he felt that from what he read in the Observer and heard fmm his colleagues, "the faculty should get a little more because of what the faculty does." "Who is more vitally associated to the educational function than the faculty," Dugan replied, after explaining that only 30 per cent of the tuition increases in the last few years has some towards faculty salaries. 
Dugan also told the Observer that the AAUP was preparing a report on faculty salaries and the economic status of faculty members within the university. "There are different sides to this question," Dugan explained. The report is to be released in late November. 
Friday, No.~ember t6,<.1P73 · the .observer 
~~----~----~~~~------~ 
PO Ws exchanged in Middle East 
By United Press International 
Red Cross mercy planes shuttled between Cairo and Tel Aviv Thursday, flying Egyptian and Israeli prisoners of war home in the first major breakthrough in putting the Middle East cease-fire into effect. U.N. forces took control of Israeli checkpoints on the road from Cairo and relief trucks reached Suez City, blockaded by Israeli troops for three weeks. 
But even as the Egyptian­Israeli POW swap began, Israel and Syria reported exchanges of tank an<t artillery fire along the cease-fire line in the northern Golan Heights. No casualties were reported. 
Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Dayan was at Lod airport when the first batch of Israeli POWs arrived from Cairo. 
"Now we are seeing the first expression of settling things," Dayan said, "not only in the return of prisoners but also in food to the (encircled Egyp­tian) 3rd Army and the status of the U.N. force. 
"Finally, we have reached a coming to terms as, if I can say it, human beings, through talking and negotiations and not through tank and airplane fire." 
Political observers said the implementation of key provi­sions in the cease-fire accord signed last Sunday by Egyptian and Israeli army officers was expected to clear the way for full scale Middle East peace negotiations-probably in Gene­va early in December. But they cautioned that differences be­tween the Arab and Israeli viewpoints on a settlement 

Over Thanksgiving break 
ND Glee Club scheduled for Mid'West tour, TV appearance 
The Thanksgiving Week tour for theUniversity of Notre Dame Glee Club will include concerts in five states and a Chicago television performance. Each year the 40­voice group travels an average 6,000m iles during fall and spring tours to being its music to more than 20,000 persons. 
This year's concert tour opens at 8 p.m. Tuesday <Nov. 20) in the Thomas More High School of Milwaukee where sponsors include the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee and the Thomas More Foundation. The Notre Dame Club of Green Bay and Fox Valley will sponsor a similar concert the following evening at St. Norbert's College. 
No concerts are planned for Thanksgiving Day as the Glee Club travels to Chicago and a 7 a.m. live television apepearance on the "Kennedy and Company" show on WLS-TV Friday. They leave immediately after this show for an 
8: 15 p.m. concert in Miller High School, Marshalltown, Iowa, which will be sponsored by St. Mary's Church of that city. 
All proceeds of a concert at 8 
p.m. Saturday in the Boy's Town auditorium near Omaha will be used for food and medical care for Vietnamese orphans. This concert honors an Omaha member of the Glee Club, Philip Conroy, who traveled through Vietnam last year and returned with 17 children for adoptive families. Co-spon­soring this concert with Adopted Parents of Vietnamese Children are the Notre Dame Club of Omaha and the United States National Bank. 
En route home the Glee Club will present a final road concert in the Kewanee, Ill., High School at 7:30 
p.m. Sunday for the benefit of the Knights of Columbus. The annual fall concert on the campus will be at 8:15p.m. Wednesday (Nov. 28) in Sacred Heart Church. 
The newly appointed director of the Glee Club, Dr. David Clark Isele, will be making his first tour with the singing organization, which dates back to 1915. An organist, composer and former faculty member of the Eastman School of Music, Isele succeeds Daniel Pedtke who retires last spring after serving as director for 35 years. 
On this year's concert program are an opening series of light­hearted songs which have been favorites of all-male singing groups through the ages. They include "Vitrum Nostrum," "Amo, Amas I Love a Lass," "My Heart Commends Itself to Thee," " Glorious Apollo" and others. These are followed by a medley of religous songs which include "Lord's Prayer," "God So ~_ved 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will be on tour in five states and a Chicago television performance. 
the World" and "With a Voice of Singing." 
Light classical and Broadway tunes, featuring the quartet and solo voices of the Glee Club, make up the third portion of the program. In this grouping are "The Water is Wide," "MacNamara's Band," "Clancy Lowered the Boom." and Dean Pedtke's ever-popular "Halls of Ivy." The final songs reflect favorites of audiences who have heard the group on network television shows and tours abroad. 
They include "The Battle of Jericho!" "People," "ClimbEvery Mountam," and the traditional show-stoppers, "Notre Dame We Hail Thee" and Victory March." 
were so wide real peace might be a matter of years instead of months. 
The first phase of the POW exchange involved 26 Israelis, including nine who were cap­tured during the 1970 war of attrition along the Suez Canal, and 412 Egyptian soldiers, many of them wounded. An Israeli medical spokesman said the repatriated Israelis were given "fair treatment" and were "in fair condition." 
The POWs were flown aboard Swiss commercial planes chart­ered by the International Red Cross. The flights between Tel Aviv and Cairo were the first direct commercial flights be­tween those two cities since Israel became a sovereign nation 25 years ago. 
Egypt reported it captured 238 Israelis while Israel report­ed 8,394 Egyptian POWs .The exchange, which is expected to last at least one week, did not apply to the 175 Arabs captured by Israel on the Syrian front and the 100 Israeli POWs believed held by Syria. 
Dayan told newsmen at Lod that Israel had made 
RoGERS 
Optical 
lOGEI ATWnL -OWNH 
reaching" proposals to Syria for an exchange, including an offer to permit 15,000 displaced 
Syrian villagers  to  return  to  
their  homes  on  the  captured  
Golan  Heights.  

Israel has expressed consid­erable concern over the fate of Israeli soldiers captured by Syria during the 17-day October war. 
Liao to give talk 
Dr. Tak Ho Liao, researcher and practitioner in acupuncture, will give a short talk and demon­stration in this technique, Sunday, November 18, in the Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
Dr. Liao began his research in this traditional Chese practice in 1967 during the Great Cultural Revolution, or Red Guard Movement at the Peking Medical Science Institute. The movement was a national effor tto integrat Chinese with western medicine. 
Dr. Liao, who has also done cancer research, will give ad­ditional talks to groups in East Lansing, Chicago, New York, and Washin D.C. 
HOUIIS: " 
MON -TUES • THUl -... ' AM. ,5,31) I'M 
W£D -S4T 9 AM. 12 NOON COMPLETE $PIIICI'ACLE 
SEIVICE ALL 1.''\E Ott.'$ I'IIISCRIPTIONS HONOIB: 
Cal! 
289-7809 

g & g productions present 
THE ISLEY BROTHERS 
also featuring 
RIOT 
Sunday November 18 
two shows 7 & 1 0 p.m. 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
fckets on sale • Morris Civic Auditorium box office open. 11·5 p.m. daily-except Sunda · . , , , , · , . · 
®PIONEER., 

...IJ!--~~SX-424 
-~----­

11!!,!11 ~-!, ;c 11 !l :, II ~ t1 "' • II ~
... 

~~ 
---~-=------­



AM-FM STEREO SYSTEM ~~~~ 
421 Hickory Rd. 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
lee Gentine Bll>iness Manager 
Friday, November 16, 1973 

Kill The Calendar 
The Observer reaffirms its stance in opposition to the new calendar that was released by the university today. It creates more difficulties than the benefits that are supposed to result from it. 
The argument concerning the economic deprivation of students still stands. The last week of August is a work week that is highlighted by the Sep­tember Labor Day weekend. For many summer employees, ·that weekend is financially the best of the summer. Likewise, many students face jobs that require staying on until Labor Day and the new calendar prohibits this. Overall, it can result in a $150 to $250 loss for the student and considering the cost of at­tending Notre Dame, that is a significant loss to most. 
Dr. Burke in arguing the university's side claims that it is feasible that many students do not work right up until Labor Day. Yes, that would be feasible except there are no figurestobackup Dr. Burke's side. Rather, there are petitions from two years ago with the signaturs of 3000+ students on them in opposition to the calendar...signatures that would tend to substantiate the side that student's jobs are endangered. 
Further in this defense, Dr. Burke argues that moving the end of the semester closer to Christmas would create travel problems for students who 
Charity B-Ball 
Saturday, the third annual charity basketball game will be held at the Convo for the benefit for the poor families of South Bend. You really can't say a whole lot more than support this worthy cause. But consider it in this light. Besides doing what you can with your donation to help the poorer families of South Bend have a nice Thanksgiving, you will also get to see the dynamite Notre Dame basketball team for a bargain price. 
The organizers still need help, however, for the distribution of the turkey dinners to the South Bend families. If you've got time or can make time, call AI Sondej at 7077 or Denny Brennan at 
2961. They really need your help to make Thanksgiving a lot nicer for some area families. Pitch in and give a hand. 
daanesbury 
~~)o.::r. 
11Y fELLOW SWTH-~7~~ EAST ASIANS! 111£ 1/M£ f:' HAS COM£ 71J F/6HT 
8ACK A6AIN5T YOtJR 
" {)/0£FtJL. UJT IN 
~ UFE! "-.. 

Jerry lutkus Editor-in-Chief  Dan BarreH Executive Editor  
NEWS:  283-1715  
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
BUSINESS:  ?113-7471  Advertising Manager  

live faraway. Yet, he never equates the distance problem with the students who must now make travel arrangements for the mid-semester break. Compound the additional travel cost with the small summer vacation pay checks and it seems obvious that there is a larger problem there. 
The statement also says that students have themselves lengthened the existing breaks so as to create for themselves, mid-semseter breaks. The university can offer no convincing argument that will verify that this will not happen even with the new calendar. Watch it will continue to happen. 
Finally, the argument on trends is funny to hear from Notre Dame which tells its students that trends are not important on every other issue except the ones where it is effective for their argumentation. 
Sign the petitions circulating in your halls and oppose the new calendar. Make it clear to this university that the student body stands solid in their op­position to this insensitive move. After all, it is the students who have to study under the schedule and the faculty--who earlier this week voiced their disap­proval-who have to teach under it, yet it is the administration and their forces n the Academic Council who have forced us to kowtow to this new schedule. Don't let it happen. 
Jerry Lutkus 
Hill Street 
The Rodent Affair 
dan barrett· 
Karl Malden was saving San Fancisco, Harry was doing his homework, and Beth and I were making hot cocoa when disaster hit our house on Hill Street last night. What started out as an innocent scratching sound ended up in a repeat performance of one of the most outrageous scenes imaginable. 
The whole episode starts weeks ago on an atypical Sunday evening; it was atypical because it was one of the few times that all four of the residents of Hill Street ate dinner together (of course Beth was there, too.) But it was an uninvited guest that entertained us that night. For right after dinner, the five of us spotted a new house mate: a mouse. 
There he was, sticking his nose out from around the stove, watching our every move with those beady little eyes, and generally recon­noitering newfound terrain. Figuring that our rent and food bills were as high as we could afford, and knowing the terriffic fecundity of the little devils, four of us decided that the new guest had to be removed. Beth, for a change, wasn't saying much of anything. As a matter of fact, she was looking rather ill. 
We chased that damn mouse from its lookout point on the stove ; under the kitchen cabinet; from there to behind the refrigerator; and finally into the living room, all the time wondering how so little a thing could possibly escape from such a determined effort by four college seniors. But our guest did much more than escape. He (It had to be a 'he' in a guys house) sent us into hysterics with his 90 degree tums, changes of speed, and general ability to avoid us. 
Being a suprement entertainer, however, Gene (you can't have a house pet without a name) saved his best for last. After a zero to one hundred MPH in nothing flat start, he turned left without breaking stride and disappeared down our cold air return. 
Being the good guys that we are. we decided that we would claim victory without a corpse becausenobody,not even Gene, could survive that suicidal lunge. And when our mouse trap failed to get anything but dust, which we can get by ourselves pretty easily, we celebrated our guests total demise. 
But last night we saw another mouse. This time, though, the mouse knew enough not to poke his snout into the light. Instead he was chewing away under the kitchen cabinet as determined to chew a tunnel into the wall as he could be. We knew we were up against it when we realized that theinch crack between the wall and formica cabinet allowed him almost total immunity for his operation. Smart little beasts. 
"Drop something on him," I suggested, never realzing that if we missed we couldn't retrieve our bludgeon. "Well then tie a string on a knife and we'll guillotine him." So there we are, Harry asking for an executioner's mask and waiting for a chance to drop the knife down the crack, John holding the flashlight so we cold see the potential victim, Frank banging on the other end of the stove to chase him down to the trap, waiting to call out at the rightminute for the dropping of the blade. Beth wasn't saying much of anything again. Strange. 
As if you couldn't guess, we missed, themousecrawled back into his domain under the cabinet where we'd forget him save: his methodical gnawing on our hose, and Karl Malden saved San Francisco while we were away. 
Finally, Beth said something, "Take me home." 
Jerry Lutkus 

itT tiS GO 7V '(;J--~-.,...­WA5HIN610N, D.C., _~\tJ~~ 10 PIIT YOfJR. CASt BGRJRG f"'u: :tl) 1HE 1/.5. CON6RESS, TO -' r"' HOUJ IT ACCOUNTABLE FOR. ~ 1HG AIR-WAR POLICIES /J/11/CH <"' HAVG CA~O YXR MiseRABL-E t CONOITION.', 

'HURRY, SIR •••1' 
rJarry trudeau 
YGS, til£ 11f/S1 1~~~f'~ /..088Y TOR YOVR \i v~ ~"" f.?£CON5TRtJCTION! I 'CI{.Cltli /A/ANT eACH RGFVG/3£ f' H£/<?E TO PICK ONE &.ow CON6R£55MAN ~ ~f~ SCNATO:: TO SP/3AK TO! l-...-J 
the observer' 

Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Night Editor: AI Rutherford Layout: Celeste Ponteri, Maria 
Gallagher, Bill Brink Day Editor: Terry Keeney Copy Editor: Greg Rowinski Typists: Connie Fourre, Tom Modglin, 
MiJry Romer, Mike Seidel Compugraphic: Bob "the man" Steinmetz Night Controller: HMH Picture man: Jerome Phillips 
' 
t 
The Observer has become a lunchtime tradition at Notre Dame. 
But despite its avid readership, few people are aware of how the paper reaches the dining halls and why it occasionally arrives late. Equally unknown are the facts behind news coverage, ad management, and production methods. 
And so, readers --a day in the life of the Observer. · 

Day Editors: Mary Janca (Weekend), Tom Bundy (Mon­day), Marlene Zloza (Monday), Jim Roslnl (Tuesday), Jack 
Kelty (Wednesday), Terry Keeney (ThurSday). 
Subscriptions StaH: Matt LamCSubScrlptlons Manager),AI Hamilton, Jackie Schmlzzl. 


Day Editors: Mary Janca (Weekend), Tom Bundy (Mon­day), Marlene Zloza (Monday), Jim Roslnl (TUesday), Jack Kelly (WedneSday), Terry Keeney (ThurSday). 
Copy Readers: Rick Thues, Terry Keeney, Greg Aiello, Greg Rowinski, Pattie Cooney, Marlene Zloza. 
Typing StaH: Howard Halle (manager), jBarb Norcross, Connie Fourre,Tom Modglin, Joton Flannigan, Steve Roper, 
Mike Goetz, Joe Abell, Joe Wilkowski, Chris KnKht, carole Rechtenstelner, Mike Sidel, T.. J. Clinton. 
JOhn DeCoursey, Janet Denefe, Jark Derhelmer. Claude Devaney, Mike Dewey, Anthony DISabatino, Jim Donathan, Ellen DuHy, Jim Eder, Eugene Fineran, Thomas Franco, Fred Graver, carol Guckert, Ted Guth, Patrick Hanifin, 
Mella, Phyllis Mosley, JOhn NloUShlglan, Jeanne Murphy, William Murphy, David Newman, Thomas O'Neil, Tim 
Welby, Howard Wood, Paul Young, Valerie Zurblls, Donna Anania, Mary Jane Ande.-.on, Diane Bennett, Mvy Lu Bileh, Mlndle Bright, Suun Buzbee, Melissa Byrne, Janie 
AdVertiSiftl StaH: JOhn Kloos (Ad Manager), Paddy Swiney (Assistant AIJ Manager), George Adello, Pete Kernan. Pete Fries, Bob McManus, Rick Nauman, Ken Kampman. 

Advertising and Business 
The daily routine begins ••• 
Paul Colgan -one of many. 
by Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporter 

At ten o'clock in the morning the Observer office is desolate. The serene quite is in­terrupted occasionally by the sythmic sounds of the UPI tape machine and the music from the Huddle juke box loating up to the fourth floors. 
However, this lonely peace does not last forever. The office becomes alive as the members of the the Business Staff trickle in one by one to start a new day and! create a new Observer. 
The first person to break the office silence is Paddy Swiney, assistant advertising manager. Her first task is to collect the mail at the post office and sort it out. 
She then checks the black book, which is not a book with special telephone numbers, but a book with ads listing the column space, size and total amount of inches of the ad. She puts all copy orders for ads in a a folder. 
Her next chore is to check the commission book for advertising salesmen. Each salesman comes in every morning with his contracts and gives them to Paddy who in turn puts them into the black book ac­cording to whatever date they will be used. 
"There isn't much to do in the morning until the paper comes in," she explained. To bide her time, she reads previous issues of the Observer, writes letters, or reads from the 'library' which Jerry Lutkus brought her, or she will sit at her desk for a while glancing through the Sears Catalogue. 
When the paper finally comes in, she has a number of daily jobs to perform. First, she gets the paste-up sheets, which are the copies of ads from that day's paper that has just returned from the printer· She tears off the ads putting them either into the file if they are not going to be run again, or at­taches them to copy orders if they are going to be used the next day. She peels off the mast-heads and headlines which are used regularly every day. 
After she has finished this activity, Paddy answers phone calls about classified ads. She explained that people do not understand that all classified ads must be paid for in person and before 1:00 the day before publication. 
"All hell breaks loos-e at 12:00 noon," she 'universities, and graduate schools. 
exlaimed. While salesmen are running in and out, she takes care of their business and cuts out paste-up sheets. The news editor and day editor come in and reporters call for assignments. This is the busiest time in Paddy's day. 
At 1:00 she types ads and sometimes articles. When typing ads on theyellow tape process, she does not know whether she is typing correctly. She sees any mistakes in typing or spelling when the ads are ready for lay-out. 
During late afternoon hours, she answers the phone and finishes copy orders. On Mondays she picks up new time cards and on Fridays she picks up pay checks. 
Paddy's job is strictly as an assistant advertising manger. She does not know how the business staff works at night, nor does she handle any aspect of the news end. Her job is another specialization in the total workmanship of the Observer. 
John Kloos, senior management major, is the advertising manager. He developed the department in the beginning of the year and 
makes sure that it functions systematically throughout the year. 
The advertising staff consits of Paddy, six salesmen including Kloos himself, and two layout men, Rick Nauman and Ken Kamp­man. 
The salesman meet with Kloos every two to four weeks for brief meetings to check on procedures and outcomes. Kloos is con­cerned now with finding methods to. avert the slump in advertising which comes in February. 
The salesmen receive a ten per cent commission on every contract they bring in and a fifteen per cent commission on every new contract, Kloos explained. 
Although he tried to I recruit saleswomen, he received no volunteers. 
Advertising supports the paper, the University does not," he continued. The Observer is not funded by the students, nor is it a profitable business, making money. According to Kloos, the paper is run by its advertising. "If we don't make money off of advertising, we don't have a paper," he emphasized. 

Lee Gentine This past year, the Observer raised the prices for ads, -and as a result, Kloos ex­plained that there was a loss in advertising, especially from national advertisers. The Observer accepts any type of ad­vertising. "We sell and they buy," he said. The majority of advertising comes from South Bend merchants, while a small percentage comes from campus organizations and national advertising from New York. · Kloos feels that "Observer advertising is a decent deal for South Bend markets because there is a well-defined market here at Notre Dame with 10,000 people of the same age." But for other businesses in the area, it does not pay to advertise in the student paper. One business which fully reaped the profits from advertising is the Windjammer, Kloos continued, which caters in men's hair styling. The Observer is listed in the National Educational advertising Service catalogue. Thus, companies from all over the country could advertise in The Observer, such as Budweiser, stereo equipment companies, Icelandic Airlines, Van Heusen Shirts, Paulist Fathers, and other schools, 

•
A day 1n the life • • • 
The backbone of The Observer is the reporting staff, which works without pay and often without recognition. To give the reader a better idea of a reporter's procedures, methods of reporting, and deadlines, we followed a randomly chosen reporter through a day of work, and came up with the following story. 
By Jane Thornton Staff Reporter 
Shortly after noon last Tuesday, Paul Colgan, Observer staff reporter, dropped in the third floor La Fortune Observer office for an assignment. Speaking with day editor JimRosini and news editor Tom Drape, Colgan considered several possible articles and decided to cover President 
Theodore M. Hesburgh 's faculty address. 
Drape advised him to wear a coat and tie, and to scan the faculty for reactions afterwards. 
Colgan arrived at Washington fifteen minutes early to allow time to prepare his notes for the spe>ech. Afterwards he chased professors down, scoring two rebuffs and two comments; hoping to clarify the $300,000 University budget surplus issue raised during the speech, Colgan conferred with Provost James 
T. Burtchaell. 
Afterwards he recessed to let the ideas sink in. "I have to let the event separate from the writing, Colgan explains. "I wrote it mentally on the way home and considered several different ways of writing it before I • decided." 

Kloos does saleswork as well as managing the department. Last year he was a salesman, and "liked to get out and see people." He also does design work for ads. 
The Business Staff 
Business Manager Lee Genteine handles all the finances of the paper. His major job is "handling of all accounts receivable, accounts payable, cash receipts and cash disbursements." 
He also does work of a general matter spending a lot of time on the phone requesting contractors to pay, prepares income statements, coordinates books, and works the payroll. 
When Lee comes in at 1:00, he checks the mail and then marks checks receiveable. He deposits receipts daily and works on accounts payable. He explained that The Observer. pays their bills on a fifteen day term. 
He regards the Observer as an "automatic do-it-yourself" because it receives no money from student govern­ment or from the University. Every year the students are asked to pay an optional fee of two dollars per year, which contrary to popular opinion, does not pay for the Ob­server, but provides cash and working capital expenses, he said. 
Genteine explained that The Observer is a non-profit paper so that any profits which happen to be made are put back into The Observer to develop a better paper. Income varies from month to month, according to Genteine, and it "runs up and down depending on the volume of advertising. Sometimes we lose our shirts," he ex­plained. 
"The Observer is not the most profitable paper on student campuses, but considering the work that people put into it and the late hours, we strive to bring the best possible paper we can provide," he said. 
Lee. works with the general accounting office on campus with Mr. Tom Kirsh;ner, senior accountant in the general accounting office. The Observer holds two university accounts in the office. Lee also works directly with the personnel department because the Ovserver payroll is now on the University computer. 
Colgan wrote the "meaty parts" first, in this case the Carnegie Commission review and the $300,000 surplus question, then supplemented it with details. 
"I knew what the lead should be (the $300,000 surplus) by the reactions of the people afterwards," he claimed. "It's what would draw people to the article." 
"My basic format," Colgan con­tinued, "is that I write the news lead and the relevant points of the whole speech. First I present the issues and then explain them so it's clear and in an order of decreasing importance." 
Elaborating on his writing style, Colgan claimed his technique is based on instinct. "I don't have a logical mind," he stated, "so I go by instinct and it's usually pretty good." 
In newswriting Colgan aims for as many direct quotes as possible, poin­ting out that "what makes a speech "My job is not easy but is is enjoyable," 
Lee commented. He said jokingly "I do 
have staff problems." 
Genteine is directly responsible to the 
editor-in-chief, "no-hair Lutkus", but his job 
is a 'business' in itself. 
They call her "mom" because she brings 
candy and sweets and adds that womanly 
touch to the mechanical business office of 
the Observer. Her name is Mrs. Ceil 
Popovich and she is the business manager's 
secretary. 
Ceil performs the daily routines as 
business secretary between 12:30 and 
usually 3:30. Although she does not leave 
until her work is finished depending on how 
heavy the advertising for the particular day 
is. 
Her basic job is billing for all advertising 
that runs in the paper. 
When she comes in, she gets the paper and 
checks through with contracts and ads. 
She then makes an invoice to each account 
whether paid or not and bills all accounts. 
She mails out invoices posting for accounts 
payable and accouants receivable listing 
the date and amount and the invoice. 
"The place can't run without Ceil," ex­
pressed Lee Genteine. She just works for 
the business office of the Observer. She has 
been working on the staff for three years 
now, and her job has remained the same. 
Every year she works with a new and dif­
ferent staff, but does not find it difficult to 
getr used to new faces. 
Prior to working on the Observer, Ceil 
was a secretary for Dr. Lawrence 
Baldinger, former director of the pre-med 
department. Here she worked directly with 
the students and feels that they respect her. 
She has been with Notre Dame since 1952. 
She believes that the Ovserver is a "great 
little newspaper" and loves working \\Clth · the students on it. "I know how much work goes into the paper because Iwork on it also," she said. "I don't think the majority of people reading the paper know how much 
work goes into it," she continued. 
Ceil appeared to sum up the general 
consensus of the people working on the 
business staf by commenting that "we 
would not bje with the paper unless we 
really want to--including me!" 
article really difficult is that it is spoken and you're always looking for good quotes and you always think you've missed it." 
Around midnight, after rewriting the lead three times, clocking in two hours writing and two hours typing on "one of those lousy Observer typewriters," Colgan missed the deadline. 
"I hate deadlines," the journalist grumbles. "I can't do anything on a time schedule. That's why I rarely make the 8 o'clock deadline. I've frustrated many a copy reader keeping him up past midnight." 
Colgan, a second semester senior, began working for the Observer this semester and also contributes to the Scholastic. He foresees a career in journalism, typical of many Observer news reporters. His particular interest is magazine writing because it em­phasizes analysis and interpretation. 
"'· 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Assigning and collecting the news stories 
by AI Rutherford Maria is the Observer's representative to Staff Reporter St. Mary's. While on her campus, she is contacted about writing columns, sending in At eleven o'clock each day, The Observer stories, or just general criticism. She works news staff begins to work, starting with with a staff of about ten reporters and helps news editor Tom Drape. The respon-them with any problems of writing stories. 
sibilities of news editor are numerous. Tom, 
a junior American Studies major is in 
charge of not only the reporters, 
photographers, day editors and copy 
editors. Tom coordinates the activities of 
each of these staffs, making them a 
responsible sgement of the Observer. 
Tom's main job is to find the news. Once 
this is done, he organizes a story sheet, 
which in tum is assigned by the day editor. 
His day on the paper starts around noon­
time. He begins by sorting through news 
releaseses, story leads, "On Campus 
Today" announcements, and holdovers 
from the day before. 
During the day, Tom sets aside time to assist the staff reporters with any problems. "I try to point reporters to possible news 'sovrces and suggest various story angles," 
commented Tom. 
Deadlines are also set by the news editor. 
He checks in periodically during the day to 
assign priority stories for the next day's 
edition. Again at work later the same night, 
Tom makes sure that important articles are 
laid in. He then begins preparations for the 
following day's issue. 
St. Mary's Editor 

Maria Gallagher, St. Mary's editor, is the 
equivalent of Notre Dame's news editor. 
The only difference is that the volume of 
news is smaller. 
"Basically, it involves knowing what is 
going on newswise on the SMC campus," 
commented Maria. "Then I call in the day's 
stories to the news editor Tom Drape." 
"I try to help by directing them to news sources and how the reporters should start theirstories," explained Maria. 
In addition to her editor's job, Maria is also active in reporting, photography, layout, and writing columns and features for the paper. 
Day Editor 
The day editors' job commences around noontime each day. A story sheet, con­sisting of various articles, is comprised through discussions between the day editor and the news editor. The stories are then given a priority rating according to their importance. Along with the stories, photography must also be considered. 
Phone calling is next on the agenda and can sometimes prove to be difficult. Reporters who have signed up for a par­ticular day are called and given a choice articles which might interest them. Photographers assigned to each day are also called and and informed of their assignments. 
"The difficult part is trying to contact the reporters between classes," commented Marlene Zloza, one of Monday's editors. "If it becomes late in the afternoon, and stories are still unassigned, many times I'll have to go to reporters assigned to other days." 
While the whole process of assigning stories goes on, the day editor also rewrites public relation <PR) articles. "We try to keep the PR's current," stated Marlene. "After choosing various PR's for the day, they are sent to the typists." On Campus Today" articles are also compiled and readied for typing. 

Answering the phones and taking messages for the other editors is als part of their obligations. Anyone needing in­formation or extra copies of the Observer is sent to the day editor. Students calling in stories requiring coverage are also for­warded to the day editor. 
Day editors start as staff reporters and attain the post when it is vacated. Marlene, commenting on the job of the day editor, stated, "we try to keep the day editor as the central person. In this way, the day editor is familiar with everything going on." 
Wire Edit()r 
Ann McCarry, wire editor, is in charge of supplying the paper with fresh United In­ternational Press (UPI) articles. The UPI machine, types up stories from all over the world. The wire editor, reporting to the office at lunch time, analyzes the schedule of upcoming articles typed up by UPI. Also at time time, Ann resupplies the machine with paper and tape. 

Around dinnertime, Ann returns and selects lead stories for that night's layout crew. This often includes editing and oc­casional rewriting 
"There's only two major difficulties connected with my job," says McCarry a three-year veteran of the The Observer. "First of all, I have to decide what copy will be most interesting to the readers. Secondly, the Chatterbox has an insane sense of timing. It breaks down at least once a week." 
Back up in the office again around mid­night, Ann checks to see that there is suf­ficient copy typed up and stories updated. The maintenance of the UPI machine is also the wire editor's responsibility. In addition to her editor's duties, Ann also reports and writes columns and various features. 
Insights and Supplements 

Art Ferranti and Dan Barrett are the executive editors. Ferranti, a senior sociology major, hands out most of the "insights" "Insights are either of a description-explanatory type or an in-depth look at a current topic," said Ferranti. Ideas for insights and supplements come up from reporters or from the editors. 
Supplements are a joint effort by the executive editors usually focusing on a theme such as this one. Barrett, a senior majoring in pre-med, himself oversees the copyreaders and is a part-time advertising salesman. 
****************************************************************************************** 
The Night Shift 
• • • and goes and goes and goes ••• 
by Gary Ailietta 
Staff Reporter 

It was almost midnight Monday night. Robert Baker was just finishing a correction in the headline for Tuesday's article on the academic calendar. Someone had misspelled 'calender.' 
Before Robert had a chance to even think of the headline for the article, however, a lot of other people were responsible for getting the story printed. 
The beginning 

Kurt Heinz brought the article in at about 9 p.m. Monday night. Possibly the way he had written it was good enough for publication, but often reporters misspell words, use wrong punctuation, or make other small mistakes. Therefore, most · newspapers, including The Observer, have a copyreader check over incoming articles to look for errors. 
Monday's copyreader was Marlene Zloza, who explained that a copyreader does more than just read copy. "He should go over the story with the writer, and help with any rewrite. Also if a story isn't in by around 10 p.m., he should call the reporter to see what's wrong." 
The copyreader is also in charge of the story sheet, a list of the day's news with reporter and picture assignments for each story, and the time the article comes in. 
Most copyreaders have at least a year of reporting experience, and occasionally have to cover a late-breaking story or rewrite a UPI story. Usually, though, their duties end around midnight, when most articles are in. 
Marlene was not really sure why she took the proofreading job. "I wanted to do something as a follow-up to reporting,"· she said. Or maybeit had something to do with the sign on the copyreader's desk: "Office of the Copy Editor ... Main cog in The Ob­server Machine." 
A coded Story 

At around 9:45, Kurt's article was ready 
){{??}}il 
Art Ferranti 
for production. Marlene put it in a stack with some other articles for Carole Rechtensteiner or Barb Norcross to type. 
Actually, news is not typed at The Ob­server, but rather it is punched out in code on narrow strips of heavy paper, which are fed into "Hal," the compugraphic. Typists seem to think the computerized typewriters are easier to use than regular ones. 
"It's alot easier," Barb said. "On a regular typewriter I can get about 75 words a minute. On this one I can go faster because I don't have to return, or make paragraphs. It all happens automatically." 
The keyboard for the computerized typewriter is the same as for a regular one. However, all letters, symbols and numbers are converted to a numeric code. Stories are typed out in a continuous stream because there is no carriage reset, and paragraphs are noted by a special character. 

Barb added that the only difficulty with the computerized typewriter is that it "always breaks down." 
After the story has been coded onto paper strips, it is ready to go through "Hal." Hal is the compugraphic machine which con­verts the string of coded numbers into a typed, spaced article. The machine derives its nick-name from the computer in the movie "2001". 
Basically, Hal is nothing more than a computerized camera. The machine is equipped with a set of plastic strips, similar to film negatives, which contain all the characters and symbols used in writing. Different strips are used depending upon what size print is desired. 
Before each story is run through, a film cartridge is also inserted into Hal. As the paper strip is decoded, the character on the 
plastic strip corresponding  to  the  coded  
number moves in front of a  light beam  
which  shines  on  the  film.  J•  

Robert Baker 
essence: a picture of the article letter by 
letter forms on the film. 
Tom Wich, the compugraphic operator , Monday night, developed the story film and hung it on the "News line," a piece of string stretched across the window between the typing room and the office. 
Now that the story had been typed, it was 
ready to put in the paper almost. Each page 
of The Observer is fifteen inches long and 
five columns wide. Kurt's article was one 
column wide and about three feet long. A 
little editing was needed. 
Page Design The most important job of the night editor is designing each edition of the paper. Along with his assistant, h~ has to fit the 15 to 20 stories per night int~ corners and around advertisements, and size each of the pic­tures that go with a story. Robert Baker was Monday's night editor. . In a rare free moment, he detailed the night editor's duties. "He has to check stories for .typing mistakes, position a story by its priority, and write headlines," Robert said. ,He noted that the only qualification needed to be a night editor was "endurance," for .most work from 7 p.m. until 3 or 4 a.m. the next morning. Robert's assistant is Tim O'Reiley, who noted that the two jobs were basically the same. The only major differnece between them, he said, was that Robert "does the front page." Layout for The Observer is sort of a community affair. The ad department does the ads, sports writers do the sports, and the night editor does the news. As news comes out of the compugraphic, .. the night editor checks its priority. High priority stories are placed closer to the front of the paper and higher on the page. Ar­pcles are checked according to space available and unimportant material is edited with a razor blade. 
Layout is facilitated by the fact that the newspaper is1photo.copied, so only dark (continued on next page) 
Highlighting The Observer specialty teams 
" 


by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 

Sometimes Vic Do-rr, Observer Sports editor, wonders what his priorities are as a Notre Dame student and a sports writer. Is he student first and sports writer second? Or vice versa? 
"With this po-sition on the sports staff, you begin to realize just how lucky you are," Dorr remarked. "Where else in the country can you go over to the ACC and sit down with Ara, Digger or Lefty. Sometimes I am not convinced we're not here just to cover a national championship." 
Dorr, a senior American Studies major, is in charge of what he descirbes as his sports staff "team." "I'm very team-conscious. If I were to compare us to a football team, I would say we have skill at all different positions," Dorr explained. 
Dorr's teammates on the sports staff include Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor and John Fineran. Corgan covers the major sports and does the page layout for publication every Monday and Wednesday. His column "Extra Points" is a weekly feature. Peggy Lawlor, a St. Mary's senior, has similar duties and helps Corgan on Monday and Wednesday. 
Fineran, who works for the Sports In­formation Office, is featured in his column "Blarney Stone(d)", Although his specialty is hockey, Fineran covers all sports "with a distinctive flavor," Dorr noted. 
The basic tasks of the sports staff are the same as those for the other Observer pages. Only the staff must do all the work--writing, editing, and layout on their own. 
"What we do is no different from what 
everybo-dy else does," said Dorr. "We write 

Vic Dorr, Peggy Lawlor, Greg Corgan 
our own stuff and proof it and do page layout ourselves." 
Several years ago the sports staff did very little of their own writing. The sports page was filled with national sports. Little at­tention w~s given to Notre Dame sports. 
Dorr pomted out that the emphasis on ND sports, begun by last year's sports editor Jim Donaldson, has been completed. Mo-st of the ND sports are covered by the staff. 
Sam Yanucci covered interhall football this year. Pete McHugh wrote about JV football. Hal Munger and John Turchan cover cro-ss-country, soccer and rugby. Dorr has traveled to all the away football games except Rice. 
"I'd hate to see the sports page fall back to what it was four years ago," said Dorr. "Now you don't find anything but ND sports on the sports page." 

by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 
"The features page can include virtually a':ly kind of article," noted Kathy Sch­Wille,features editor. Perhaps any reader of 
the features page can affirm that statement. 
F?r the role of the features page is quite 
umque. 

The features page consists not of news items, but of articles of human interest. Traditionally the page includes reviews of concerts, books, movies and plays as well as commentaries and special articles. Yet emphasis is primarily on culture. 
"I see the features page as a review of culture on campus as well as human interest stories and viewpoints," Schwille said. 
One of the most important cultural events on campus is the rock concert. The concert review is not the assignment of one in­dividual writer. Pat Small, Rick Thues and Butch Ward have all covered concerts this year. 
"We try to get a variety of reviewers instead of just one concert reviewer," Sch­wille explained. "The reasons are obvious ­different people have different musical tastes." 
The Student Union, ACC, and the Morris 
~ivic Auditorium provide complimentary 
tickets for concert reviewers. "The Student 
Union always gives us excellent seats " 
Schwille added. ' 
Joe Abell, managing editor of the Ob­server, has contributed book review of new scince fiction. Casey Pocius, a graduate student, has reviewed new art exhibitions at the University Gallery. 
Although the features page has no per­manent staff, there are weekly features. Art 

features ] 
Ferranti, Observer executive editor, writes 
a weekly column entitled "Little Big Screen" which previews coming TV and movie highlights. Fr. Robert Griffin, rector of Keenan Hall, writes "Letters to a Lonely Goo" which appears every Friday. The Office of Campus Ministry contributes weekly articles, authored by Director Fr. William Toohey or Associate Director Fr. Thomas McNally. The features page includes articles of general campus interest such as Mike Kulczycki's feature of Oktoberfest at the old Kamm brewery. Editor Schwille gets ideas for these stories from different sources. "People come to me with ideas," she said. "If I think of something, I usually ask somebo-dy to write an article about it." Besides assigning articles for the features page, Schwille is responsible for "laying out" the articles in preparation for publication. The features page is published three or four times each week, usually opposite the editorial page. 
Circulation and Subscriptions 
••• and the end of a long day. 
by Art Ferranti Executive Editor 

It is now Tuesday morning. The paper has been printed and wrapped at Rhodes Publishing <Countryman's Press) in Mishawaka early Tuesday morning. All that is left is its distribution and delivery. At ten in the morning, the circulation staff begins its operations. 
Headed by manager Frank Zaletel, a senior majoring in engineering, the cir­culation staff (Frank or Matt Cavanaugh picks up the papers at Rho-des'). On Tuesdays and Thursdays Cavanaugh performs the run. The bundled papers are loaded by Matt into The Observer's 1970 Ford Econoline van. From the printer's, he heads back to Notre Dame making his first stop at the ACC athletic offices. 
Two bundles are dropped off next at the Library basement for the faculty. The guard at the Northgate receives a few copies as the van enters the main bo-dy of the 

campus. The North Dining Hall receives a 
major portion of the papers next, followed 
by a stop at LaFortune where bundles are 
left at the Observer offices and at the off­
can?pus office. Special quarter-folded 
copies are also left at the offic e for sub­
scriptions. 
The South Dinng Hall is next on the 
schedule of stops also taking anumber of 
bu~d~es. Moreau Seminary, the ROTC 
bml~mgs, Morris Inn, ~nd the bus stop at 
the circle follow respectively each receiving 
a small allotment of papers. 
At St. Mary's approximately 700 papers are left in the dining hall. A bundle is dropped off at LeMans hall for the faculty administration, and department heads. ' Linda Holtcamp delivers those papers to th~ir respective offices Monday through Fnday. The last stop for the van is Pan­dora's books. 
The other duties of the salaried cir­
culation manager include van upkeep 
<approxin1ately $16.00 a week goes to gas 
alone) a~d the recirculation of old papers at 
a recycling center. It takes from one and a 
half to two and half hours for the daily run to 
be completed. 
Matt Lam is the subscriptions manager, also on salary. Lam, a senior business major from Hong Kong, comes to the office at 11:00 a.m. Monday through Friday to update the files and collect the mail. He returns at one and inserts the 400 quarter­folded papers in brown bags for addressing. He also prepares the daily form for the Post Office. 
From Monday to Wednesday Jackie Schimizzi comes in and addresses the bags on the machine. Al Hamilton works on Thursdays and Fridays. The machine uses alumnimum hard-backed plates with each address embo-ssed on them. The plate slides under the machine's roller which inks the address on the bag. Tbe Observer leases the machine on a monthly basis but the selling price is eleven hundred dollars. 
The bags are bundled into piles for cities and states (six or more of a certan city or certain state qualifies it for a bundle) and inserted in the postal bag. Lam or Hamilton usually brings the bag to the Post Office. The process takes one to one and a half hour~. The little address box on page two is required by Postal Law in order to keep the second class mail rating. It takes a week to ten days for the paper to reach its destination. All circulation and subscription workers are paid. The total circulation <including subscriptions) for the Observer is 12,000 daily. 

Of co!lrse, by the time the van has pulled out.to piCk up the papers, Paddy Swiney, the assistant ad manager, has come in and the whole cycle of putting out The Observer begins again. 

stop -Pandora's 

Type, cut, and paste --production work 
(continued from previous page) matter such as ink will be picked up. When the paper goes to press, it is a collection of raggedy edges, transparenttape and light blue reference lines, none of which are spotted by the printer's camera. 
Kur~'s article was finally edited by Robert and Tim at 11:30 and became a five column spread at the top of page three in Tuesday's Observer. 
The night editor's final responsibility is to take the layouts to the Cooperative Publishing Co. in Mishawaka and leave them in the night depository. 
Other Jobs 
While all of the people mentioned work one or twice a week to get an edition printed, several others are responsible for certain daily jobs. 
Howard Halle, pro-duction manager, is in charge of hiring (and firing) typists and compugraphic operators. He is also responsible for maintenance of the machines. That means "I'm always on ~all," Ho":ard said. "They can call me to fix a machme anytime -even at 4 a.m." 
Butch Ward edits all the letters and c?lumns that appear in Tbe Observer. He VIews his position as that of "coordinating" the need for reflecting the opinion of Tbe Observer with the opinion of the student bo-dy.!' He said that anybo-dy can submit a column but editorial space is reserved for members of the editorial board. 
THE SUPPLEMENT STAFF 
Executive editen: Dan Barrett, Art 
Ferranti 
Aasoelate Editor: Marlene Zlou 
Ghostwriter: Butch Ward 
.. 

Friday, November 16, 1973 the observer 9 
i

Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad l 
l 
A

nobody till somebody loves you 
~ 

reverend rabert r:~riffin 
l 


There is a special mood of exasperated excitement about being a priest in New York City; it's as if you were an employee working for a very powerful company, with a Boss who has influence over absolutely nobody. I remember walking through Times Square one day, bringing the Blessed Sacrament to a sick man who was living in a welfare hotel on W. 47th Street. My mood was a playful one, like a contestant on a telecast of "I've Got a Secret" -the secret being, of course, that I was a travelling companion to the sacramental Lord who 
plays games of "You've Got a Secret" with wafers of mystical bread. 
here comes jesus 

In His earthly lifetime, everyone in town was sensitive to the nearness of the Lord; even blind men tapping their white canes through the shoving crowds of a Jerusalem mob would suddenly become excited with the realization: "Here comes Jesus." In New York, there is no such intuitive recognition. I remember, on the day I speak of, coveting reverence for the Eucharist-or at least as much attention as the billboards were getting -as I passed a Times Square theater dedicated to the arts of bump-and­grind. I suddenly said to a lady I met who was flashily wearing the scapulars of faith: "I'm bringing communion to the sick." 
Through my coat, I showed her the shape of the watch-size communion case I was carrying in an inside pocket. I thought she might genuflect, or hum "Panis Angelicus", or take up a collection for the support of her pastor. Instead, she only touched the lump in the coat that sheltered God, and said: "Father, do you have a little change you could spare me?" 
At such times, God must murmur fo Himself over and over again the words of Rodney Dangerfield: "I don't get no respect." 
I remember the night scenes of summer when the street preachers would proclaim the redemption of the Lord all over Times Square; and ev~ry time they opened their mouths, I felt that the Holy Ghost was· being called out at first base. There would be a great silence from the heavens in the night skies that hung over Manhattan, as though Omnipotence were indifferent to the earth; yet I knew Jesus was there on the sidewalks with me, as excited as I was over the noise, the traffic, and the flashing of neon lights. But when the preachers would shout his name, it was embarrassing to listen. If I had not known Him already, I would not have believed in the Lord whose mercy and grace was touted on the street corners like the cheap merchandise of itinerant salesmen. 
paper napkins 
Mterwards, I would go into the coffee shops, hoping to touch the lives of friends I would meet there with the reality of Jesus. I think of an ex-wino named Joe who would sit on a counter stool in Childs', starving to death over a plate of mashed potato and gravy. Joe had cancer of the throat, but he might have recovered if he could have given up smoking. I~tead, he would light up one cigarette after another; and gagging, he would heave up every bite of food he at­tempted to swallow. The waitress was a friend who loved Joe very much; and she would let him sit there for a couple of hours at a ti~'e. because he had no place else to go. 

He would cough away his life into paper napkins, which the waitress would bring him in stacks six inches high. When Joe finally died, he weighed less than eighty-five pounds, a pitiable example of those who would rather fight than switch. 
the perils of virtue 
I think of a personable young chap named Rocco, who would come into the Muf­finburger stoned with grief each evening, and buy coffee for the prostitutes. It was rumored that Rocco used to be a cop who, in his rookie days, had fallen in love with one of the syndicate call girls. But when she tried to quit the syndicate and go virtuous in matrimony, she had been dropped by pimps out of the window from the top floor of an Eighth Avenue hotel. Rocco was one of the policemen who found her dead on the sidewalk. 
Rocco was later fired from the depart­ment, so it was said, for his rough handling of pimps, when he met them, whether on duty or not. When I met Rocco, I always felt that he was ghosted by the memory of a face smashed into concrete on the 45th Street side ofthe Royal Manhattan Hotel, and that seemed as much truth as he ever dared to face. 
Whatever the truth in the tales told of Rocco, the clearest, most vivid recollections I have of New York are the God-haunted moments when I felt Jesus inside me like a second self, walking among shadows of deatll on the New York street. Yet I have no sense of making Jesus real to anyone, least of all to Joe and Rocco. Like the street preachers of evangelism, my best words of faith seemed a betrayal of a God whose beauty is beyond the resources of any language I now know. 
Yet we do speak of God when we love one another. A priest cannot beat an old lady over the head with a sacrament, and say: "Here is Jesus." But a waitress can allow a dying man a place at her counter, and she can bring him napkins for his sickness that say more about human caring, through which God's love is revealed, than all the drumbeats of the Gospel that try to lift sinners into the arms of the dying Christ. 
In emergencies, a napkin is as near as we need to get to a gift cup of cold water to those suffering friends whom the Lord called the least among his brethren. 

'"Twas founded beth' Puritans to give thanks f'r bein' preserved fr'm th' Indians, an'. ... we keep it to give thanks we are preserved fr'm th' Puritans." -Finley P. Dunne 


Pop, Op and Warhol fans take note: the grand-daddy of them all has a new show at the Notre Dame Art Gallery. Still going strong at eighty-five, Josef Albers continues to turn out work at an enviable pace. His latest effort, entitled "For­mulation: Articulation," is being exhibited now through December 31st. A set of sixty­six prints and lithographs, it represents yet another step in the artist's lifelong ex­perimentation with color and form. 
Albers' work is hard to describe. Like all art, it must be seen to be fully appreciated. I can remember my first encounter with his "Homage to the Square" series: a short trip 
Current Han~;~-ups 
the art of josef albers 
casey pac:ius 
to the Gallery that ended up in long hours of observation and contemplation. At first glance the work seemed simple and austere but a closer look revealed many layers of subtlety and expression. Albers reduces painting to its simplest constituents: color and line. What I first took for playful hard­edges soon became something infinitely more complex and exciting. I saw color react with color in a fight for control of the picture space. Of course, neither of them could win because they were conceived and executed as a whole. The same phenomen a occurs with line. My first impression was one of calm. Then things began to happen, 

a thanksgiving wish 
Tha_nksgiving Day is, above all, an An1erican institution. The turkey 
and p1e, the football mania, the gathering of the family to bow their 
heads, survives only because there is a place ineveryone's heart which 
h~s remian~ innocent at a time when innocence tags along like 
Dwgenes lookmg for a home in the heart of an honest man. 

It is harder today to participate in this ritual than I can ever rem_ember. The voices at the dinner table will probably be able to do nothmg more than echo the sadness of a time gone sour. 
And yet, i~ what is left if my own innocence, I am hoping for just a 
momentdunng the day when the darkness will subside fora moment 
perhaps to reveal that for all the sin and sorrow this is still a world of 
more kindness than we have allowed. ' 
To be able to see tha~ perhaps we bave only temporarily tossed away 
our chances for happmess, and have not lost them entirely will be 
enough to give me reason for thanks. ' 
by fred graver 

the experience changed. The colors became violent and competed for my attention, ghost images came and went, the shapes began to expand and contract yet always returned to their original physical bounds. All in all, the work was charged with an action and intensity that belied my initial expectations. 
Albers' insights into the field of color perception alone would have marked him as a great innovator, but that is just part of his art. Born in Bottrop, Gern1any in 1888, Albers was a contemporary of such masters as Picasso, Mondrian and Mestrovic. His first lithographs, executed between 1916-19, were done in the Expressionist manner. In 1920, Albers enrolled at Walter Gropius' Bauhaus. school at Weimar, where he was later to gain his first fame as a teacher. He became interested in stained-glass windows and began a series of glass paintings which, in retrospect, give the first evidence of his use of the square as a distinct form. He also designed furniture, creating the first bent laminated chair intended for mass production. Albers' theoretical precisions was always equalled by a precision for craft, echosing his avowed esthetic that "in producing art I please myself and educate others to see." 
Upon the closing of the Bauhaus in 1933 Albers emigrated to An1erica, where he became one of the most influential proponents of Bauhaus ideas on design methods and educational reform. While teaching at Black Mountain College in North Carolina from 1833 to 1949, be worked mostly with oil on masonite, evolvin~ geometric forms with the square gradually emergin as his dominant theme. In 1950 he moved on to Yale University, where he became chairman of the department of architecture and design. It was there that Albers began working on his renowned series of paintings and lithographs, "Homage to the Square." 
In reducing that shape to a basic con­centric arrangement, Albers anticipated the abstract, geometric direction that art was to take in the 1960's. His exploitation of the fact that two chromatically proximate colors, when combined properly, can produce a third color also made him a forerunner of the Op artists who ex­perimented with perception. 
For thirty years, Albers' paintings and lithographs have been an exploration of the basic problems of color. Although he per­sonally prefers the term "interaction" to "vibration," there is in his work a distinct sense of motion. Colored planes advance and recede within the picture space while their shapes expand or contract. What outwardly looks so modest in fact contains much depth; one could easily spend hours in front of the work, getting into its psychological as well as visual effects. 
· Striving for simplicity but not simpleness, "Formulation:Articulation" is an im­portant collection by a truly significant artist. Whether you're a serious student of art or just like to come and look, you owe it to yourself to see this show. Come for a minute, stay for an hour. You will be amazed. 

lO Friday, November ·16, 1973 ' 
The Gallo Side of "Boycott! I I 

Editor: Your editorial of September 24, concerning the United Farm Workers and Gallo, has come to our attention. We presume that you are seriously concerned with truth and complete information. Regret­tably. you chose to advance a strong opinion and advocate a boycott of our wines without being adequately informed. Recommending in public print a boycott of a responsible company's products is a grave action, not just free expression of an opinion. It seems unusual to us for a jour­nalist to fail to seek out facts at the source and make thorough analysis before taking such a position. Your interest in this matter, we trust, continues, and therefore, we wish to present you herewith, over our signatures, factual in­formation which should enable you tospeak,as Abraham Lincoln once did, stating, "I'm always glad to admit I know more today than I did yesterday." Gallo farm workers are union farm workers and are in the union of their own free choice and have the highest combination of wages and fringe benefits of any farm­field labor in the United States. We signed a contract in early July with a union that presented us signed petitions which were \·erified to represent the majority of our employees. Then, this contract was ratified by the overwhelming majority of our employees. The contract provides substantial increases in wages and fringe benefits. 'linimum base pay is $2.76 per hour, ranging upward to $3.57 per hour, averaging about $3.00 per hour. Harvesting grapes on a piece-work basis averages pay of about $5.00 per hour. Many will run up to $9.00 per hour. In addition, the contract pro\'ides for: 
Paid Pension Plan Paid Vacations Paid Holidays Premium Paid Overtime Paid Funeral Leave Grievance and Arbitration Plan 
Paid Health and Life Insurance Rent-Free Housing for Most Permanent Employees 

State Unemployment Insurance Voluntarily Paid by Gallo (not 1·equired by law for farm labor) 
This contract cannot be changed or cancelled by an arbitrary action on our part. A boycott cannot "persuade" us to do something we have no legal nor moral right to do. 
Now, may we comment :This unfortunate conflict between two unions could have been avoided if farm workers were included in the federal legislation which operates to insure workers in other in­dustries government supervision of elections for the purpose of protecting an absolutely free and secret ballot in choosing a union affiliation. 
We are strongly for such legislation and urge all others, such as yourself, to write their cong1·essman and senators to back such legislation. This will be the most direct, long-lasting way to help farm labor. 
And also, please think of this: Obviously the behavior of any company reflects the attitudes and policies of its management. Significantly, this company is personally owned and managed by its founders, the Gallo family. Therefore, we have always had a feeling of direct, close relationship with our employees and personal concern for their welfare and happiness. Our performance in this regard stands on a record of more than 40 years of demon­stration, not just words. 
As you think about this matter, we'd like to ask you to consider this summary: Our farm-field workers are union workers and are in a union of their own choice. They have the highest-paying contract of any farm-field workers in the continental United States. It's a minor detail, but regarding the Teamster-UFW lettuce squabble, we have never, by word or deed, taken any side in this. Any statement contrary to this by anyone is pure prejudicial fiction. 
Sincerely, Ernest Gallo Julio Gallo 

:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
tWith the letter was enclosed a chronological statement of what occurred between the UFW and the Teamsters as the Gallo Co. recounts it.) 
At a meeting of the Board of Trustees for the Robert F. Ken­nedy Medical Plan, held on January 24, 1973, the suggestion was made to Cesar Chavez by Robert Gallo that the parties agree to meet as soon as possible for the purpose of renegotiating their collective bargaining agreement due to expire on April 18, 1973. 
A letter dated February 1 was sent to us by the UFW union requesting a meeting to renegotiate the agreement. The letter was not, however, ac­companied by a list of desired changes which the union had agreed to submit under the terms of the contract. 
Several phone calls were placed to the union negotiator during the month of February requesting that meetings be set up between the two parties. These phone calls went unanswered, so finally a letter was sent to the union requesting that the dates of March 29, March 30, and April 12 be set aside for negotiation meetings. 
There was no reply to our February 28 letter so a follow-up letter was sent on March 12. Finally, the union agreed to a preliminary meeting on March 22 for the purpose of discussing "ground rules" for the for­thcoming negotiations. Such a meeting was held and it was agreed the first negotiation session would be held on March 29 with another session scheduled for March 30. 
On March 28, 1973, the union notified us that they would have to cancel the meetings for March 29 and 30. The union's negotiator faithfully promised that a meeting would be held the following week and the union would notify us as to: the exact time and date. The union failed to comply with this com­mitment, although the contract was due to expire on April 18. 
On April 18, 1973, a telephone conversation took place between representatives of the union and company. We pointed out that although the contract was ex­piring, work would be available to all employees. A request was made to tentatively schedule our first meeting for April 25. A letter to the union was sent on April 18 confirming the telephone con­versation and the tentative meeting date of April 25. 
The first negotiation session with the UFW was held on April 25, 1973, at which time the union submitted to us only their noneconomic proposal to the company. 
Subsequent meetings were held on Mary 2, 8, 9, and 11. During the meeting on May 11, the union voiced concern that Teamster representatives were allegedly observed on our Fresno and Livingston ranches. We responded by stating that neither Teamster nor UFW representatives would be permitted in the fields during working hours and that a letter to this effect was sent to all super­visory personnel on April 24. After settling this point, negotiations continued into the late afternoon with the next meeting scheduled for May 14. However, upon returning to the Livingston ranch, it was learned a meeting between several employees and Teamster representatives at an employee's house on the ranch property was in the process of being broken up by UFW supporters, including a number of outsiders. 
At the start of the May 14, 1973 meeting, the UFW presented us with a letter from Cesar Chavez containing a number of charges against certain company representatives. The union refused to continue the negotiations until we replied to the Chavez letter. 
The charges were answered in a letter to Mr. Chavez on May 17, 1973, and in the same letter the union was requested to put a stop to the threats being made to workers by the Union Ranch Committee members, who were attempting to coerce employees into signing UFW cards. With the letter to Chavez was a copy of a letter which was distributed to all employees advising them that they would not lose their jobs for signing or not signing a union card. 
On May 21, 1973, a telegram was sent to Cesar Chavez advising him that, contrary to his un­derstanding, we had not received notification that Teamsters represented our workers and that the company remained ready to continue negotiating with the UFW. A meeting was sub­sequently arranged for May 29. During the meeting on May 29, it was pointed out that we had made no attempt to bar UFW representatives from the Livingston ranch so long as they did not enter the fields and in­terfere with the workers during working hours. The union agreed we had made no such attempt to restrict their activity. 
It should be noted UFW 
representatives were free to visit 
camps and housing areas without 
any restrictions and that they were 
not interfered with when they 
talked to workers before or after 
working hours. 

Further negotiation sessions 
were held on May 31 and June 1, 4 
and 18. The time delay between 
the meetings of June 4 and June 18 
was due to the UFW represen­
tatives being unavailable during 
this period. Progress to date had 
been slow with the union taking an 
unmoving position on several of 
their proposals. 

It should be noted that in 1970 a new agreement was concluded after three meetings. Already, in 1973, ten meetings had been held. 
On June 20, 1973, what turned out to be the final negotiation session took place. At this meeting we pointed out that the union still had not submitted its economic proposals, and that the in the previous eleven meetings, we had demonstrated considerable flexibility in our positions on all resolved and unresolved issues. Yet the union to date had failed to indicate any degree of flexibility in their position on three key items <hiring procedures, method of determing employee seniority, and union discipline of employees), which significantly deported from present contract language. It was left that the next meeting would be called by the UFW. 
On June 25, we received a letter from ·the Teamsters claiming to represent the majority of our field employees. The same day, our employees were notified that we had received this representation claim from the Teamsters. Cesar Chavez was also notified by telegram on June 26. 
Before a meeting could be scheduled with Teamster representatives to verify their claim, the UFW established a picket line at our ranches on June 27. 
On June 29, those employees who stopped working on June 27 were advised that they should report to work the following day or be permanently replaced. 
The Teamsters submitted to us copies of signed petitions · from workers requesting that the company recognize the Western Conference of Teamsters as their exclusive bargaining agent. In the absence of any legal mechanism to determine employee preference, and due to the fact the two unions could not agree on an election process, we made the verification which was accomplished using personnel and payroll records. It should be noted that our recognition of the UFW in 1967 was based on a check of signatures on cards submitted by that union. 
In a letter dated July 6, we ad­vised all employees that we had been presented with petitions by the Teamsters, that we had checked the signatures on the petitions and found that a majority of our employees had selected the Teamsters to represent them, and as a result, we would recognize theTeamsters as the bargaining agent. Of the 250 employees covering all four ranch locations and including those who had failed to report for work on June 27, there were 138 verified workers' signatures requesting Teamster 1·epresentation. On July 10, a contract was consummated. Ratification meetings were held at all four ranches, and by written secret ballot the new agreem.ent was ratified by a 158-to-1 vote and the contract was put i'lto force. 
This factual account can be substantiated by correspondence and meeting minutes. The purpose of this letter is not to make charges against any organization or in­dividual nor do we feel it is necessary to answer un­substantiated allegations directed against this company. The pur­pose is to let you know the facts in order that you can judge whether or not we as a company acted in good faith. The weight of the evidence seems to indicate that the Gallo farm workers did freely choose and are represented by the union of their choice, and that for them, this has resulted in the best contract for farm-field labor of any in the United States. As you are aware, we believe that union representation should be deter­mined solely by the true will of the actual workers concerned. 
One final point: Unfortunately, throughout the above period of time, none of those who claim to speakm most authoritatively for the good of those workers em­ployed by us has made any attempt to determine the true feelings of these employees, who were working for us last April and are still working for us. Why, as we subsequently learned, did several delegations of employees contact the Teamster offices in Modesto and Merced requesting the Teamsters to represent the em­ployees on our ranches? Why were the majority of signatures favoring the Teamsters obtained by em­ployee solicitation and not through efforts of Teamster organizers? Why were meetings between in­terested employees and Teamster organizers constantly disrupted by UFW supporters? Finally, why did the UFW choose to postpone and delay our reaching any agreement that would face ratification by the workers at our ranches? 

yearn for the earth pains caused I.Jy ourfor people that lies buried hard-surfaced city. beneath the city.
who walk on 
For rnen and wornen this earth ... The Earth Shoe is in sl1oes, sandals, 
the first shoe in sabots and i.Joots.. If you've W<Jiked history with the heel Frurn :023.50 to $48. I.Jarefoot on sand or lower than the sole ... Broch<Jre available. soil you know how this helps return you great it is. Your to nature though 
heels sink low and you are forced to I ive your feet emi.Jrace in a cernent-coated 
&leartti 

the eartt1. Then you world. The Earth put on your shoes, Shoe's patented 
~Shoe 

return to the city. design gently guides and becorne another you to a more erect 
2112 N. Clark St..

concrete fighter . . . and graceful walk, Chicago, Ill. 60614
but the concrete and reduces fatigue always wins. You and the aches and [312] 528-8510 
As pictured in the Last Whole Earth Catalog.. 

·~-------~ ----~----­

Friday, .November 16, 19.73 the observer 
1 l 

'Super Bomber' slated 
"---~-"-­
\ 
j 

Start your V\Eekend at ... 
Bulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) 
...··... a.:J 
~x, 
.· .. ,. ..... 

,........~...._ ._. ... ..­
1..~ 
MASS AND DINNER 
Friday 5:00 p.m. r------------------------------------------------, 
Cheered by 4.000 • 
A reunion of former athletes of St. Joseph's Grade School will highlight the school's annual "Super Bomer" sports smoker Friday night, according to the chairman, Mike Mcintyre. The smoker, which will get underway at 8 p.m., will be held in the school gymnasium. It is again open to. women, Mcintyre added. 
At least three of the school's former athletes have been cap­tains of Notre Dame's football team and many have attained prominence as college stars, coaches, athletic directors and officials. Among them are Jim Tansey, Rocco Lupresto, Louis Ferraro, Joe Lazara, Jim Mar­chelewicz, Jim Powers, John Murphy, Rick Seall, Tim Howard. 
Nixon 'won't walk away' 
By EUGENE V. RISHER 
WASHINGTON <UPO President Nixon, embarking on a public campaign to clear his name of the stain of Watergate, told 4,000 cheering businessmen Thursday that "I was elected to do a job (and) I'm not going to walk away until I get that job done." 
Flashing his campaign-style "V" sign with arms outstretch­ed, the President extolled his major achievements this year and listed inflation and the energy crisis as two problems he was busy solving for the future. 
In a 30-minute speech before the National Association of Realtors that was interrupted six times by applause, Nixon blamed Watergate on the mistakes of "overzealous peo­ple" in the 1972 election campaign -"mistakes I would not have approved of, mistakes I would not have tolerated, but mistakes for which I must accept responsibility." 
Then, bringing his audience to its feet for a one-minute standing ovation, the President declared: 
"As far as the President of the United States is concerned, he has not violated his trust and he is not going to violate it." 
As for demands for his resignation or impeachment, Nixon repeated a refrain he has stressed in a week of private meetings with members of Congress and Republican party leaders and elected officials. 
"I was elected to do a job," he said, referring to his goals of world peace, domestic prosperity and national tran­quility. 
"I can assure you that regardless of what some of my good intentioned friend's and honest opponents suggest, I'm not going to walk away until I get that job done," he said. 
The speech was the first of four scheduled public appear­ances within the next few days that will carry Nixon to Florida, Georgia and Memphis. In addition, he continued his meetmgs with legislators Thursday, answering questions for 78 GOP congressmen over breakfast, for about 50 Demo­cratic congressmen at lunch and for a final group of Republican senators in late afternoon. 
On Saturday night, the President planned to address a meeting of the Associated Press Managing Editors Association 
on television in Orlando, Fla., followed by a question-and­answer session. 
HIRVY 
IIKIRR 
VIRGIL FOX 
WITH 
REVELATION LIGHTS Jl~LL·BACH PROGRAM FIODGERS TOURING ORGAN WED. NO. 21, 8:30 pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 

RESERVED SEATS $6, $5, S4. Sl.OO STUDENT DISCOUNT Wll"H ND-SMC ID. TICKETS AT,MORJU!! . CIVIC SOX OFFICE II:OG-5:01) DMLY. FOR FI)RTI:t~~ INFORMA,-toN, . 
'CAtt"'U2~: . . . . j 
Bo_bby Roe, Roland Chamblee, Bili (Zip) Roemer, John Taylor and Tom Kruyer. Also Bob Turnock Maury Hoban, Jim and Stev~ Rudasics, Terry, Steve and Eric Smith and Pat Filley, as well as some of the distaff stars of the recent past, Mary Doran, Mary Hoban, Kathy Lauer and Maureem McCarthy. 
Sponsored by the school's athletic committee, the smoker proceeds will go to the St. Joseph sports program, athletic Com­mittee Chairman, Joe Karwowski said. ' 
Maury Hoban is chairman of arrangement.<:., entertainment and contest awards; Jim Humphrey, food; and Marie Virgil, decoration. 

BOTTLE UP A GARDEN. Pre-made terrar­
iums. _Glass containers. Assorted shapes 
and s1zes. Plants vary. Also contains 
decorative items 
inside. Take a look! ....$6.99 • 26.99 
Limited Quantity 
GIVE THEM WARM WINTER EVENINGS. Irish coffee service 
for 4. Clear glass 
decorated in gold 
and green with a 
shamrock on the 
stem. Specially de­
signed to hold hot 
liquids. 6 oz. 
$5.49/set of 4 

Shop: Monday-Seturday 10·10, Sundey 111·8 Phone: 25!HlUO 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old K•m~n'a Brewery 
LONDON PARIS ANTWERP RQnEROAM SYDNEY MELBOURNE TORONTO ~ONTREAL VANCOUVER NEW YORK BOSTON MIAMI Pl-l'lliOElPHIA CHICAGO OETA()IT PITTSBURGH H0US10N. DALLAS PHOENIX SAN FRANCISCO SEATTLE LOS ANGELES 

1 2 the observer Friday, November 16, 1973 
! 
J 
~ 
RESEARCH AIDS FREE CATALOG 
Thousands of research aids listed -Each available with footnotes and bibliography 
Lowest prices are GUARANTEED S2 per page. 
For a free copy of our latest 80­page m'.lil-order catalog, send 50 cents (to cover postage and 11andling J to 

!NAT'L RESEARCH BAN 
420 N. Palm Dr., Bev. Hills, Cal. 90210 
You MUST include your zip code. 
TELEPHONE: (213) 271-S439 

rector's job: involvement 
by Ambrose Benkert Staff Reporter 

Amon!!, them are a psychologist, 
accountant, and a lawyer. Their span of personal university encompasses the 40's, They enjoy pastimes and in many eases have different backgrounds. 
ther·e is a unifying force holding together these twenty men and women: they are all rectors of Notre Dame dormitories. The rector is one who must fill 
roles: eounselor, friend, 

eommunity member, 
aeademician, disciplinarian, and 
spiritual guide. Each enjoys the 
challenge of working with 
students, yet each sees the ex­
perience in different terms. 
"Rectoring is just a house­
keeping," says Fr. Leon Mer­
tensotto of Lyons. Fr. Dave 
Sehlaver, of Dillon, says "It's 
where the action is." Kathy 
Cekanski, of Breen Phillips, says 
the r·ector "must jump into the 
tr·enches and see where the kids 
are at." Fr. Bill Presely, of St. 
Edwar·d's sees the r·ector as a 
"facilitator for personal growth 
within the framework of the 
r·esidence hall." Fr. Tom 
Chambers tries to help his 
MorTissey students develop in four 
ways: academically, socially, 
emotionally, and spiritually. 
Aim at 'community' 

A il1·ectors try to develop a com­munity, or unfied spirit, within each individual hall. Yet they 
•·ecognize how nebulous and in­tangible the concept of community is. "The students need a place where thev can have some sense of identity,"-says Fr. John Mulcahy of Flanner. "A true community spir-it is one in which people can iive together and have concern for each other·," says Mertensotto. Sr. Karen Anne Paul, of Badin, considers a community "an en­vironment where people respect and care for each other and are sensitive to each other's needs and feelings." Fr. Robert Friggin, of Keenan, sees hall unity growing out of several communites which combine in a "fusion or en­thusiasm to pride and ac­complishments." 
To foster such a sviti within their halls, r·ectorsemploya variety of ingenious ideas. Alumni holds a "Las Vegas Night" which involves a casino atmosphere and is open only to hall members and their guests. Morrissey stages a "Mr. Morrissey" talent show contest. Badin put out a bi-weekly newsletter. St. Ed's hold an NFL night during which popcorn is served in the TV room. Breen Phillips groups people by home town, class, major, and birthday. Grace residents participate in pr-ogram!-; designed to aid the elderly and the retarded and also arrange social gatherings with 

Jim 
'63 
Chuck 
'65

1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
Drummond Bros. Beer 

If you like Coor's-this is what you've been missing. A Distillery-Golden Exclusive 
From West of the Mississippi 
112 galion for

NEW MONTEZUMA TEQUILA: 
$12.22 

EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 
10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUflg ANn IAIIII.u::: TO ORDER KFr.c; 
.".-','·'I:, ·1,) '.~'.'I Ill I 1/1" 
Observer lnsir:~ht 
families in South Bend. Many halls use hall fellows programs and the liturgy to try to promote a com­munity. 
Most rector·s feel they must show personal initiative. "I try to hit people on a one-to-one basis," says Joanne Szafran of Walsh. Fr. Andy Ciferni, of Holy Cross, tries to be present at every interhall athletic activity involving his hall and takes the time to play football, handball, and to eat with the students. The formation of a <;ommunity is most difficult in the women's dorms due to both their newness and their lack of a stay hall system, yet Sr. Jean Lenz, of Farley, finds no problem in this area because, at the beginning oof the year, the old residents of the hall made sure that the spirit and traditions were passed on. 
Despite the emphasis placed on bringing people together, rectors do not want their halls to become isolated in the context of the overall university. Fr. Carl Ebey, of Fisher says, "There should not be unity at the expense of theother halls." 
The rectors also differ in their assessment of the principal problems they face. Fr. Eugene Gorski, of Howard, feels he does not have pmblems but merely faces challenges. Fr. Matthew Miceli, of Cavanaugh, the dean of the r:ectors, sees the major dif­ficulty as "getting to know your men well." Fr. Michael Zang, of Sorin, is disappointed to "see the result fall short of the goals." Reconciling his pastoral, which he considers pre-eminent, with ad­ministrative duties such as giving out keys perplexes Fr. Thomas McNally of Grace. Bro. Just Paczesny, of Alumni, admits he "ean't fathom parietal hours. I don't know how the university expects us to enforce them." He is also concerned about the over­consumption of alcohol, wondering why "two students drink four cases of beer every Friday night." 
Ciferni feels his ~rea test task is to "elicit a sense of social r-esponsibility" from the students. Several rectors who also serve within the administration cite lack of availability as their biggest problem. 
The need for discipline 

While none of therectorsrelishes the administration of discipline, all recognize to some extent the need for it at certain times. They agree with Schlaver who says "The best discipline is self-discipline." Sr. Paul feels that "discipline is not a major issue" because the students are mature enough to employ self-discipline. Fr. Terry Lally, of Stanford, finds the matter "one of the easiest things. I've never had a discipline problem I felt I couldn't handle." Discipline is basically seen as a positive tool. As Gorski puts it, "The goal of a disciplinary act should be educational both for me and for the hall." Cekanski thinks it important for the rector to get "the whys and wherefores of the situation." Some rectors decen­tralize discipline by relying on the RA's or judicial boards to levy penalties. 
Although they are virtually uananimous in their endorsement of co~ducation < Presley calls it "the greatest thing that every happened to Notre Dame"), they differ in their conceptions of its impact. Gorski doesn't per­ceive any immediate impact because "there aren't enough girls around yet." Fr.. Thomas Tallarida, of Zahm, thinks co­education is only beginning to have an impact on the North Quad becaus there were no women there last year. Fr. Griffin admits, "We have not reached the point where the hall ceases to be a male ghetto." 
The benefits of co-education 
Yet others see a more sub­stantial effect as a result of the mixing of the sexes. Fr. James Riehle, of Pangborn, finds two ways in which the presence of women has helped the social situation. It helps "get rid of the boor·ishness and locker room at­

School house Too 
In the Brewery 
100 Center Complex 
Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 


The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUNDL\Y, 

University of Notre Dame! 
Glee Club 
in concert 

Wednesday, Nov. 28,· 1973 
Sacred Heart Church 
Admission: Free Time: 8:15pm 
Early seating advised 
titudes" and it elevates the men by making them more socially aware. 
Just notes the decline in "Hard core X-rated pornography on the walls." In the women's dorms, the major problem has been one of adjustment; Szafran cites the "fish bowl" at­mosphere which is just now beginning io disappear. In a larger sene, mostr·ectorswould agree with 
Chambers, who said "Co­education strengthens us because it opens us up to the real world where men and women can ex­ehange ideas." 
Optimistic about hall life 
The rectors are universally optimistic about the future of residence hall life at the univer­sity. Tallarida points to the fact that students refuse to leave overcrowded dorms as evidence of a "fantastic potential for human growth" that exists in the halls. Many feel that because of this overcrowding there is a need for the construction of new residence halls. Some say the stay hall system denies flexibility to the students, while other believe it is essential for the development of community. 
Gor-ski bases his optimism on the belief that, "The central staff of the student affairs are much more concerned and aware of the 
challenges  in  the  halls."  
Ciferni  feels  that  if  the  new  
guidelines  are successful,  there  

will be a decentralization of power back to the halls where it belongs. While Mertensotto laments the fact that so few rectors are in­
(continued on page 14) 

Friday, November 16, 1973 the observer 
13 

Creaney appointed to Facuity Athletics Board 
by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 

For the first time in its history the Faculty Board in Control of Athl~tics has a student member. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh has ap­pointed Mike Creaney, former Notre Dame football player, now student freshman assistant coach, to the board. 
The Faculty Board in Control of Athletics oversees all university intercollegiate athletics. Ac­cording to the Academic Manual, "It is specifically empowered to make recommendations to the President on athletic policy." 
Creaney, introduced to the board at its meeting on Wednesday, sees his role as student repr~entative as unique. He can provide an "inside point of view" on athletics the board has never had. 
"I think it's just a better input," observed Creaney. "I can give a better vrew of the team -or the locker room view.'' 
Creaney felt that this con­tribution was especially valuable when the board discussed a possible post season bowl bid. The board must approve any Notre
.Dame bowl appearance. 
One of the things we discussed was the bowl situation," said Creaney. "That's where I had the most effective impact. I gave them a more active input than 
~-they ever had." 
Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, executive vice-president of the university and ex-Qfficio chairman of the board, thought that the time had come for student represen­tation on the board. His com­mettee is following the trend set by other University committees in admitting student members. 
"When they revised the Academic Manual, they put students on nearly all Univer­sity committees," Joyce noted. "There is no reason not to have a student on the board as long as he is serious and responsible. And we thing we have that student in Mike Creaney." 
Joyce explained that Creaney's role would be exactly like that of any other board member. He will have all rights and privileges including a vote. ' 
Creaney joins ten administrators and faculty members on the Athletic Board. Theyinclude Joyce, Vice-president for Student Affairs Dr. Philip Faccenda, and two facultv members from each of the University colleges. 
W~t Qhdnnial I 1 Janrakr i;nusr 
l 
Dpinian 

Dellinger, Hayden-­fred qraver they told you SO 
l•• 

David Dellinger and Tom Hayden, two of the Chicago Seven conspiracy trial defen­dants, will speak in the LaFortune Ballroom, Tuesday, November, 27, at 8 p.m. 
A great deal has happened since that famous trial, which symbolized for many the political struggle for change during the late 60's and early 70's. People have finally started to become aware of the darkness and corruption which was pointed out to them by a growing number of voices calling for change in the middle 60's. 
The members of the Chicago Seven were among those voices, and in many ways werre among the most outspoken of them. At the Democratic Convention in 1968, these men organized the dissident voices of the nation, and went forward to the political leaders who had gathered to decide on their candidate for President to tell them that they were tired of the lies and the sins which they saw hap­pening every day within the system. 
They were not exactly welcomed by the city of Chicago with open arms and wide smiles. The police department infiltrated their ranks with confederates, hoping to abort the protests. Weeks before the convention, the leaders of the movement were assigned police to tail them everywhere they went. 
In a recent article in New Times magazine, 
Tom Hayden wrote: "They proposed to 
follow us for Convention Week, at a distance 
of about ten feet. We went to the bathroom. 
They followed. We went to lunch, they sat at 
the next table. We drove to a meeting, they 
tailed. When they were close en~Igh, they 
would make remarks about 'getting' us or 
'arresting you every time you're in the 
streets.' " 

Brought to trial several months after the convention before now-infamous judge Julius Hofman, the defendants accused by the State of lllinois of "crossing state lines with in­
tention to incite riot" originally numbered 
eight. But Judge Hofman took personal of­
fense to defendant Bobby Seale of the Black 
pian n ing a 'wtkling'! (•all Tht' 234-5822 \\t'<ld ing Phologrnpht,. 

International 
234-5822 MICHAEL LONIER 
-~ Dhotograghy
--1>"""5 
grapniC 08Sigll 

Galleries 
Presents 
A collection of Chinese, Tibetan, central Asian and traditional Japanese designs interpreted through the medium of woodblock printing. 
Panter s, and ina move typical of his sense of 
justice, had him bound and gagged and finally 
totally removed from the courtroom. 
The trial was a sham and a circus. The defendants were fond of showing the ab­surdit~ of the situation by showing up sometimes wearing judicial robes or making animal noises when state's witnesses were testifying. 
Judge Hofman was not the epitome of courtroom decorum, either. Besides gagging Seales, he frequently called the defendants names, and muttered under his breath what he would do if he were a juror. 
~hich all explains fairly well why the Chrcago Seven are currently back in court. Not to re-try the case, but to determine whether the previous trial can be considered legitimate. It is ironic , to say the least. Even more, it is another symbol of our times. The paranoia felt in the late sixties has returned in full force. The awareness of political corruption has again reached apeak and once again the courts are the bat~ tleground for a war being waged against the power dragons. 
Tom Hayden and Dave Dellinger offer a particularly unique sense of perspective on the events of the last few years. Having once li:Ved with the jeers of the public, they now vrew the political situation with the feelings of one who has foreseen the future. 
As Hayden wrote, "Those of us who were 
initially indicted are now free and some of those who indicted us have now been indicted themselves, and both developments have occurred because more and more Americans have become aware of the danger to their constitutional rights. Radicals have long been accused of paranoia, of indulgence in conspiracy theories. Now, with the shadow of Watergate reaching far beyond the radicals I keep thinking that perhaps this "Paranoi~" will be so widely shared that it will become common sense. Living in fear may be crip­pling at first, but people who can overcome 
fear of authority have a proud future." 
Turk 


Imported direct from Swayambhu -Nath, Nepal. 
ALL LIMITED EDITION PRINTS
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
PRICED UNDER $1 0. 
35 Varieties of Pancakes 

Place: Lafortune Student Center
Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 

Second Floor Time: 9am-5 pm 
U.S. 31 ( Dixieway) North Your Host 
Date: Nov. 15 thru 16 
(Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards '50 Sponsored by Student Union Cultural Arts Commission 
-
-:. ·~ ~ f, ' • .I f , • \' .. '' t >'~ 1 4
14 t h·e 0 bserver-······ 'Frida'y', November·Ki ~973 
... 
Unfair evaluation bugs bunnies 
By EDWARD P. BUTLER 

NEW YORK (UPI) -Is it the ravages of age, "loss of bunny image" or unappreciated union activity that had four fired Playboy Bunnies hopping mad Thursday? 
"They really have been terminated because in our quarterly rating they lost the bunny image," Playboy Club manager Mario Staub said. 
''The bunny ~1other and the 
Wendy believes 

assistant bunny mother rated the girls and put the results in sealed envelopes, which we sent to the international bunny mother," he said. 
A total of six girls from the New York Playboy Club lost their bunny image in the recent 
ratings,  Staub  said,  but  the  
"international  bunny  mother  
from  Chicago  came  to  New  

York herself and reversed the rating on one girl, so she 
stays." 

Four of the fired bunnies, all over 28 years old, have asked the state Human Rights Com­mission to get their jobs back for them. They accused man­agement of sex and age 
discrimination. 

Nancy Phillips, one of the fired bunnies, said Playboy literature lists such things as "sagging breasts" and "droop­ing derrieres" as defects that 
If men can take shirts off, women should too 
By CHERYL ARVIDSON sight seeing than her message. 
WASHINGTON <UPil "All they want me to do is Wendy Berlowitz believes that take my blouse off," said if men can take their shirts off Wendy, 25, Norman, Okla. in public, women should be able "They don't want me to talk; to do the same. they don't want to hear what I 
To protest this "clothing have to say." double standard" Wendy is Wendy and her husband, Jim, traveling across the country have staged "bikini auctions" taking her tops off, but she in seven U.S. cities since July finds people more interested in 27, but during the weekend they 
Volunteers still needed 
Volunteers are still needed to conduct a collection for CARE's Worldwide Drought-Flood Emergency Fund before and after the Air Force game on Thanksgiving Day. 
The donations will be used to aid millions of disaster victims in Asia, Africa and Latin America. The effects of droughts and floods in thes areas is devastating. Food shortages caused by such disasters can result in retarded growth and brain damage among infants. 
A\!!wst all funds donated go directly to the disaster areas because little is spent on the ad­ministration of CARE. In fact, eight dollars of relief aid is given for each dollar donated. 
CARE has already sent $750,000 in emergency relief supplies in­cluding food, water and medical supplies. After CARE administers to the immediate needs of disaster victims, it establishs programs to make the people self-sufficient. 
Anyone mterested in helping to collect money for CARE at the game should contact Fr. Tom Stella (6536) or Alan Sondej (7077). 
Bush will not speak 
Republican National Committee Chairman George Bush will not speak at the Notre Dame Law School on Tuesday, November 20.. 
. According to Andy Nickle of the Notre Dame Student Bar Association, Bush has decided to accompany President Nixon t.o the Republican Governor's Con­ference next week. The president announced yesterday in a speech before the ;.;ational Association of Realtors 
that he would address the National Republican Governor's Con-­ference in Memphis, Tennessee on Tuesday. Bush in his capacity as Republican party chairman will join the president. 
Nickle pointed out that Bush will arrive on campus Tuesday night for the Republican dinner for former Treasury Secretary John Connally. · 
Rectors: diverse 
Students protest philosophies 
by barricading 
doors of school 

ATHENS <UPI) -Thousands of students barricaded them­selves inside the Polytechnic school Thursday to carry on a marathon anti-government demonstration that brought 10,000 other protestors to the scene by nightfall. 
A picture of President George Papadopoulos, who took over Greece following a coup, was burned. 
The throng, shouting anti­government slogans and hand­ing out leaflets, grew rapidly at mid-afternoon after police moved away from the school. 
Police earlier had moved in to clear busy Patision Street and the gardens of the Archeological Museum next to the school. 
(continued from page 12) 
volved in teachmg, Mulcahy hopes that there will be an attempt to professionalize the job through training. 
Co-ed dorms a possibility 

Several rectors foresee the possibility of having a married couple serve on a hall staff. Co-ed dorms are not expected in the near future, mainly because of the lack of a suitable facility. However, McNally thinks his own hall might become co-ed, saying "It would be 
a natural way to go."  Just  
thinks  co-ed  dorms  are  a  
possibility  in  the future  "as  we  

become more sophisticated," but emphasized that a special struc­ture would have to be built. If this were done, he feels it would work like a hotel where "nobody worries about morality." Perhaps, though, the rectors' visions of the future are best summed up by the rector who says, "I don't know. I'm not a fortune teller." 
entered a "new dimension ir. 
pt·otest." They moved to the 
nation's capital and Wendy 
stripped to the waist in the 
White House during a Saturday 
morning tour. 

Surprisingly, she wasn't ar­
rested because, according to a 
Secret Service spokesman, she 
wasn't staging a formal protest. 
Security officers quickly cov­
ered her up with a suit jacket, 
hustled the tourists out the door 
and took her away for 
questioning. 

In her other protests, Wendy 
has been subjected to cat calls, 
jeers and obscenities, and on 
five occasions she's been 
thrown into jail on indecent 
exposure charges. In Washing­
ton, all she received was 
stunned silence. 

Wendy and Jim began to plan their protest in May, 1972, when she taught a class in freshman English at the University of Oklahoma in the nude and was fired. It took them a year "to get our heads together" and decide on the next path to take. 
They have an act called "Jim and Wendy's Traveling Wild West Front <Not Side) Show" which consists of Wendy's theme song -"I'm All Covered in Clothes" -a brief speech on topless philosophy and a request for donations for Wendy's halter top. She then removes the halter and the protest is over, usually in about five minutes. Then she is carted off to jail with Jim always remaining out of the area so he's free to bail her out. 
Both Jim and Wendy have been disowned by their parents. 
Despite their determined ef­fort to make their protests relevant, Jim says they've only been able to draw "15,000 dirty old men" to their demonstra­tions. 
"If they really agreed, tt)ey'd be up on stage with us, not out in the audience," adds Wendy. "I'm not trying to have nudity declared legal-that would be a losing battle right now. But I definitely should be granted the same privilege as a man. I should be able to take my shirt off in public." 
~--P.!WPII' 

can cause loss of jobs. Staub said, "I never came across anything like that in the con1pany. Loss of bunny in1age means we feel the girl has lost her fresh, attractive appearan­ce. It can happen after a month 
or  after years."  
Staub  was  asked  for  a  more  
specific definition  but had  none.  

"No, I don't believe stale is right. They are just not attractive, at least not to me," he said. 
The bunnies, who work as waitresses in the club, are members of Local 1 of the Hotel and Restaurant Employes and Bartender International. 
Union President David Siegal said as far as he is concerned "management wants to get rid of . the girls because of their union activity." 
Patti Columbo, 31, one of the fired bunnies, said the dismis­sals resulted because she and the others were trying to eliminate the bunny image clause from their new contract which comes up in June. 
"Some of the younger girls signed our petition, but came back and asked to have their names taken off the list. Management gets all the young girls together and instills fear into them , " she said. 
She also said management wants to eliminate seniority and retention of benefit rights from the new contract. 
New York's club with about 70 girls is the largest, she said, adding the others have around 20 bunnies each but the bunnies outside Manhattan are not as militant. 
"There are no other girls like the New York girls. They are fighting for all their rights." 
COMING TO BRITAIN? BE SMART AND TRAVEL ALLOVER ENGLAND, SCOTLAND AND WALES FOR ONLY $32. 
If you are between the age of 14 and 22 you can now buy a BritRail Youth Pass for 8 days unlimited travel on British Rail for just S32. For more information call your local Travel Agent or contact: 
Brit Rail Travel International Inc., Dept.SN 333 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Ill. 60601 
BritRail Pass 

Juniors interested in teaching Freshman Colloquium next fall. Informational meeting 
Monday (Nov. 19), 
4:15pm in room 
208 O'Shaughnessy. 
THE ATTIC 
(above Roma's) 
. .. the newest night time gathering place 
LIVE MUSIC 
BY THE PITCHER PETE SNAKE TEQUILA SUNRISE 9-1 RUM & COKE 

DROP UP THIS WEEKEND! ! 
DERSHEM MOTORS 
special '**********************'68 Camaro, 3 sp.. *
* 
Vinyl

* 
To~, Radials, $1295. • 


Located across from Louie's Ph. 45 Fi Av~ilable 
********************** 
....:..:..::.===-...,==--~ 
) 

t 

--~---,----~------------~-------------­
----~-~-~ 

~~e Qb$erver 
15 

Polls, bowls, Falcons lace Irish 
team indicated t11e desire to play in a bowl game and 
(continued from page 16) 
indicated a desire to play the best competition"It will give us additional time to recover, and it will available. So there was really never muchgive us additional time to get ready for Air Force." 

question about where we'd go."

But even though Air Force ("a strange team," observed Ara. "They played Penn State to a 19-9loss, The only question now is whether the Sugar Bowl and then lost to Navy by a sizeable margin") is Notre package will be glittering as brightly on New Year's 
Dame's next regular season opponent, the Falcons Eve as it is now. The Irish have two games left on will be thrust from ND's attention on Saturday night, their schedule, and so does Alabama. And the Tide, when the Irish are sure to receive an invitation to ranked number two nationally, will play LSU at 
play Alabama in the Sugar Bowl. Baton Rouge in the last game of their season. And 
The Sugar Bowl picture began to solidify last Penn State and LSU, the other unbeatens who can weekend, when Bear Bryant and his Alabama seniors accept a bid to the bowl of their choice, also have a challenged the Irish to a showdown in New Orleans on pair of regular-season outings still to be played. New Year's Eve, but now, with Pittsburgh out of the "I don't agree with early bowl invitations at all," 
way and Notre Dame idle on Bowl Bid weekend, said Ara. "They can extend the invitations on 
things are rapidly crystallizing. 
November 17 now, and the bowl committees are in The Irish, unbeaten and untied, are certain to 

such intense competition now that if we don't accept a receive a bid on Saturday evening, and are vitually bid right away, they'll probably go somewhere else. 
certain to accept it. And 'Barna, unless upset by "Certainly I hope this thing will be reviewed," he Miami this weekend, is certain to beND's opponent. 
emphasized. "I'd like to see a new policy established "The significant thing to remember about our bowl where no bids for any of the late bowl games (Thepolicy," said Ara, "is that Father Joyce has indicated Cotton, Orange, and Sugar Bowls) can be extendedfrom the beginning that our procedure will always be before the end of the college season.

to select the competition first, and then worry about the site. "That way we wouldn't have to worry, and we could 
"It isn't the name of the team that dictates who let the bowl committees battle it out. But as it is now we'll play, but their stature, their relative position in they'd rather gamble and with two unbeaten teams at the polls. Now, our goal this year is the national title, this stage of the season than wait until everything is and in order to win the title we have to go unbeaten finished." and defeat a team ranked above us in a bowl game. But "when everything is finished" this year, at And the only such team we have a chance to play is least one-half of the Sugar Bowl's gamble should have Alabama. paid off. And when everything is finished, regardless 
"I talked the different aspects ofthegame over with of how it is finished, Ara Parseghian will have our captains on Monday, and then discussed it with another bowl invitation to his credit. And possibly, at the team on Monday night-and by a hand vote the last, he will have his perfect season as well. 
North American ice playoffs scheduled 
other sports," Walter Byers, the Canada and the United States,"
by John Fineran 

executive director of the NCAA, CIAU executive director Robert 
said. Pugh said. "I'm very, very happy The U.S. college hockey season "This should be quite a stimulus that this is coming to fruition thiswill not end on the evening of 
to intercollegiate hockey in both year."
March 16, 1974, according to this week's Hockey News. The long­John Fineran:==~================================================================================:===================
awaited meeting between the U.S. collegiate champion and the one from Canada will take place the 
Blarney Stone{d) 

weekend following the NCAA 
championships in Boston <March 
14-16) ==========================:=================::=:=:=::Wisconsin's 'Red Army' 
The one-game showdown, which A "Red Am1y" from the North invaded South Bend last night. This will be known as the North same "Red Army" has already laid to waste such towns as MinneapolisAmerican championship, will be and Boston. Before mass hysteria reaches feverish proportions, before held in Toronto this year, and a site anyone picks up the phone and calls for Dr. Kissinger, let it be known this to be determined in the United "Red Army" is the Wisconsin Badgers, and they are here to lay rest to States next season. The two teams Notre Dame's Fighting Irish on the Athletic and Convocation Center will be playing for a symbolic icefield tonight and tomorrow evening. Save the women and children! trophy and all players will receive Wisconsin is an impressive unit which has used General Bob Johnson's a watch commemorating the maneuvers to win the national championship last year and to be the championship game. undefeated (6-Q), number-one ranked team in the nation so far this 
The international contest is a season. Notre Dame, 1-2-1 after last weekend's two losses at Michigan first for the NCAA. "We look State, is tied for fifth in the WHCA and in the nation's latest poll of forward to a lengthy association coaches. with our Canadian counterpart and "We're disappointed withthetwo losses," General Lefty Smith said. expect to consider additional "But they are history. We face a great challenge in Wisconsin." competion between the Canadian If General Smith has any battle plan, it is to stop the three platoon Intercollegiate Athletic Union leaders of the Badgers, Centers Dennis Olmstead, Gary Winchester and <CIAU> and NCAA champions in Dean Talafous. 
"Their centers are leaders," The General continued. "They set the pace for the rest of the lines.
Wednesday pep 
Winchester, particularly, impressed Smith. "He's one helluva player." The Irish General said. "He's a good all-around player, and he has been a pest to us in the past."
rally slated Winchester~entersfor Dave Pay on the left and Billy Reay, Jr. on the right. Pay scored the winning goal in last season's final playoff battle between the two "Armies;• while fans will regognize Winchester's right 
lor Air Force wing as what he is-the son of Chicago Black Hawks coach Billy Reay. 
The Air Force pep rally, the last Olmstead's line is young to the WCHA wars. Right wing is manned by a home rally of the year, will take new recruit, Dave Otness, while the left wing is patrolled by sophomore place on the night before the game, Steve Alley. 
Wednesday, November 21 at 7:00 "Olmstead is the same type of player as Winchester," the General 
p.m. in the Stepan Center. continued. "Last year, as a freshman, he impressed the daylights out of n1e " 
This 1·ally for the undefeated and T'alafous' Corps is an all-junior one, and the biggest line the Irish have national championship-bound Irish faced this season. The wings are Don DePrez on the left and Tomwill have two special features. 
Machowski on the right, and both are identical in height (6-2) and weight Since the Air Force game is this 090 lbs.). 
year's last home game, the rally "Talafous is a big (180 lbs.), rangy (6-4) center," Smith cautioned. "Hewill salute all the seniors who will broke open the NCAA tournament last season and has done the same inbe making their last home ap­key games this year."
pearance for the Blue and Gold. 
Everyone knows the best defenses win wars, and the Badgers have oneThe rally will also pay special the best. So good in fact is the Wisconsin defensive flanks, Generaltribute to the recently deceased Johnson has moved Machowski to right wing in place of captian Stanlegendary coach Frank Leahy. 
Hinkley. Hinkely is resting in a hospital behind the South Bend lines with Coach Leahy's widow, his family a broken leg.
and several of the Notre Dame Two recruits, Jim Jefferies and Brian Engblom ,are assigned duty with greats who played under Coach the first unit. "They are two outstanding freshmen." Smith said.· 
Leahy will be special guests at the Pete Scamurra, anotheryoungsterwho enlisted at Wisconsin this fall,rally. 
will team with Bob Lundeen on the secondplatoon, while senior Dave Arundel and sophomore John Taft patrol the third flank. 
Regrettably, a number of "Taft, Lundeen, Scamurra and Arundel are all good," Smith reflected. 
l 
students will have already left for Junior Di::k Perkins returns to protect the Wisconsin "ammo-net".
Thanksgiving, but for those who General Smith called him "extremely good in close.""Perkins is verywill be staying for the game, don't active smothering shots, "Smith reflected. Perkins is backed up by juniormiss this rallv for the undefeated Doug McFadden.
Irish. Come out to salute the Indeed, this "Red Army" is Hun-like, a terrifying squad. They'll comeseniors and tribute Coach Leahy. 
at the Irish in waves. Notre Dame will need all the artillery power it canThat's Wednesday night at 7:00 niuster to defeat this group. Some of it, hopefully, will come from thep.m. at Stepan Center. 
capacity crowds ( 4,493) which will be on h!ind both evenin~s,. . , ." .". ·.. ,-. 

WANTED 
Need 4 tix Wisconsin game. Will payS$. Call 3877. 
One roomate Nd Apts 2nd semester. Call Jimbo 283-1552. 
Need 1or 2 Wisconsin hockey tix. Call Pete 23A-2098. 
Need2 tix Nov.l9WHO concert in Chicago. Please call 6716. 
Need 2 tix Wisconsin hockey, either night. Call Dick 234­3285. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride from New Haven area on Nov. 25. Call Mall 8417. 
Need ride to Cleveland . Can leave after game Thursday. Call Greg 7865. 
Ride wanted to Cincy for Thanksgiving. Can leave Wed. Nov. 21. Call 4773. 
Need ride Cleveland of Nov. 16. Mary Beth 4003. 
Ride needed from Nyc area , Teaneck NJ. to NO. Leave Sun. 25. Call Jim 1409. 
Need ride to Arkansas or pionts South. Leave anytime. Bernie 3437 or 3413. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Wed. 21st. Call Gretchie 5235. 
Ride needed to Lima-Dayton area. On Wed. Call Scott 1576. 
FOR SALE 
MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values per. sonalized service. Catalog. 
PMP Co. Box 444, Gaither. sburg, Md. 20760.. 
Turquoise jewelry 1 ·om the southwest. Great hr Xmas gifts. Call 8373 or dr :JP by 209 Pangborn. 
'66Chevy Belair, 6 yc. 3-speed $150 Tom 7915. 
pandora's new and used books bought sold and traded. save big from 10 to 7 every day. 602 
n. st. louis(at south bend av.) 
Advent Dolby , almost new must sell. Call Mike 1487. 
2 GA tix Air Force. Cheap. Call John 232-8112. 
4 Air Force tix. Cheap. 6715. 5 Air Force GA tix. Jill 5311. 
FOR RENT 
6 BR house, just rennovated, wall to wall carpet, conpletely furnished, fireplace. For grad students only. Jan semester or immideate occupation. AI Brasseur 289-2461. 
Apt for rent. S250 month, utilities included. Call 232-2113. 
NOTICES 
Off-campus students! GIGANTIC SNATCH! Free! Outside the off campus office . Mardi Gras raffle packets! Take any one, unless you 7708 have your own. Help the Master of Middle Earth sell raffle tickets !2 commission on each book. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to !150 at 1 per cent, in­terest, 1 day waiting period. BasemanI of LaFortune. 11:15­
12:15 Mon. -Fri. 
Typing: experienced in theses, dissertations, essays, term papers. Call 232-9061. 
For the convenience of ND· SMC studnets who staying for Thanksgiving game, Rocco's will be open Thanksgiving Day from 4 pm on. 
EUROPE! Take advantage of the specialists, British Air· ways-BOAC. Group inquiries welcome. Call 234-2098. 
THANKSGIVING BUSES TO PITTSBURGH FRI. 16 5 pm FROM ST. MARY'S. CALL 5111. WED. 21 NOON FROM CCE. CALL 1786. BOTH RETURN SUNDAY 25 5pm. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost Black wallet in south dinig hall. reward. Call 1486. 
Lost Seide watch, no band, 2 weeks ago. Reward. 3380. 
Lost brown wallet 8th floor Flanner. Call Ed 1506. Reward. 
Lost Black nylon jacket bet­ween Library -Badin. Cellne. 4680. Reward. 
PERSONALS 
Hi Becky, 2 Mary Hey Shorty! 
Wilbraham Woman "Little lamb I love thee!" your copy editor. 
"GO Bucks, beat Wolverines!"Fie on disloyal Buckeyes. especially at 228 Regina. 
Happy Birthday, Barb-Turkey time. "Your path of heart... " runs by us. 
Dave, John, Ray, Don, Joe, Ginna, Dianne, Rob, Joe.. 
To whom CP.B.) it may con­cern; Deepest sumpathy to Gail who passed froom our midst. 
Happy 21st, RK! Hope you get lost in a tunnel of fudge... 

-----~--------~~----~-~----­
,-------------------­
.. 
Streaking Badgers return to ND 
b~ John Fineran 

The long years of waiting for Irish football fans ended splendidly ias October 27 as Notre Dame beat arch-nemisis, Southern Cal., 23-14. The Trojans had been the defen­ding national champions of 1972. 
Tonight and tomorrow evening, :lw Irish hockey team will meet a not her defending national champion, the University of \\'isconsin. It has been a long eight r.1nnths for lefty Smith's icers since that disappionting loss to the Badgers, 4-3, in the final WCHA 
. playoff game. 

"The team is looking forward to playing Wisconsin, and so am I," Sr.,tth said. "Wisconsin is coming m number-one, and they'll remain that way until they're beaten. 
··It will be a challenge for us to rebound against them after losing twice decisively at Michigan State." 
The Irish did lose decisively 

8-5 Friday and 9-5 last S­turday mght. And not only did the Irish lose decisively on the ice, they lost All-American defen­seman Bill Nyrop, too. 
Nyrop, a senior from Edina, Minn., will sit out tonight's contest 
(7:30 p.m.) because of a game misconduct. Under WCHA rules, a player given a game misconduct must sit out his teams's next game. Nyrop's problem last Saturday night was arguing too strenously about a minor penalty for holding. 
There is however, some good news from the North Dome of the ACC. Eddie Bumbacco, the WCHA's leading scorer and a consensus All-American choice last year, was cleared of any w1·ongdoing in his spearing penalty on Saturday night at State. He will take his normal shift tonight at left wing. 
Right wing Ray DeLorenzi, who leads the Irish in scoring so far this season with three goals and six assists, will also appear tonight against the Badgers. Last 
Saturday night, the "Hawk" 
sustained a shoulder injury which 
first appeared to be a shoulder 
separatiOn. However, after 
medtcal consultation, it was found that DeLorenzi suffered only minor 
net·ve damage. 
Finally, Ian Williams, a tri­

captain and the league's second 
leading scorer, will be making his 
1973-74 debut tonight at right wing 
against the Badgers. Williams had 
been sitting out a four-game league 
suspension for an incident 
following last year's disappointing 
final loss to the Badgers . 
"Ian's return will certainly help 

us offensively," Smith beamed. 
"He complements Bumbacco very 
well." 
Still, the availability of these 

three forwards will mean nothing 
if the Irish continue their play of 
last weekend. Because of these 
lackluster perormances, Smith has 
made some changes in his lineup. 
Freshman Brian Walsh, who had tallied four goals and an assist as Williams' replacement, will move to center between Williams and Bumbacco. The man he is replacing, Pat Conroy, will move to center on the second line bet­ween DeLorenzi and senior left wing Larry Israelson. Israelson has been a pleasant surprise this season, picking up where he left off last year, by scoringfourgoals and three assists in the first four contests. 
Ric Schafer, the senior tri­captain who had been between DeLorenzi and Israelson, displaced freshman Alex Pirus at center of the third line. Pirus, instead, will move to right wing on the line, while another newcomer, Clark Hamilton, will remain on the left. 
The fourth line remains the same, senior Mike Tardani centering for a pair of sophomores, Tim Byers (right wing) and Jim Augustine. 

Nyrop's loss to the Irish blueline Paul will be teamed with him. also necessitated a shifting in the The only player not changingNotre Dame defense. Senior Tri­his position will be senior Mark captain Steve Curry will team up Kronholm at goalie. Kronholm with freshman Jack Brownschildle played an instrumental part in last on the first unit, while Les Larson yea1·'s miraculous .finish <the Irish and Pat Novitzki will man the won 15 of the last 18 games in the second unit. Paul Clarke, who was WCHA.) He will be backed up on the third line last weekend, will Friday night by senior Don Smith be the fifth man on Friday night , and on Saturday evening by Dave and when Nyrop returns Saturday, Caron, a promising freshman. 
Both games are sellouts <WSND will carry the games on campus, while WNDU 0490) will carry the games in the South Bend area.) "The sellouts both nights should give us a pyschological lift, " Smith concluded. 
Fm· a look at the defending national champion Badgers, please turn to the column on page 19. 
Possibility of perfection faces Parseghian again 

Captain's Corner 
-:-..·:·:·:·:;:·=:=·=::;:.:-:;:;;.:;:;;;;;;;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. The 1 ast line 
Notre Dame 31, Pitt 10. Boy I'm glad that one's over. Pitt was really a tough team. I'd say they were as good as any team we've faced this year. As for Tony Dorsett I would go as far as to say he is the best back we've played against this year. Well, looking forward to the Thanksgiving Day game with Air Force, it should be a real tough battle. We always seem to have a rough time against them. In 1969 the score was 13-6, and last year the final was 21-7, so we've never really blown them off the field. This year. however, we'll try to change things a little bit. 
I'd like to mention something about our team's last line of defense--the defensive backs. And they are Reggie Barnett, Tim Rudnick, Luther Bradley, and team captain Mike Townsend. 
The defensive backfield has the job of covering opposing receivers. However, they are also called at times to catch a breakaway runner or tackle a big fullback cracking through the line. Notre Dame in the past has had great defensive backs such as Clarence Ellis, Tom Schoen, and Tony Carey. 
The tradition has been continued this year with Mike Townsend who will probably make every All-American team possible. On the field Mike flows with such grace you'd think he was supernaturally endowed. Of the field Mike is a fun-loving guy. He has a good sense of humor, with a good nutiook for the future. Mike also has a very special talent for being able to communicate with all kinds of people. He is truly a rare person, and should be very successful in whatever he decides to do. 
Tim Rudnick is also a senior, and has started the last two years. Tim is o~e of the quickest guys on the team, and has a very competitive attitude. After practice Tim likes to lead a colorful life. He always seems to be on top of the action no matter how big or small it may be. 
Junior Reggie Barnett put in a fine performance last year, and is even better this season. On the field Reggie intimidates his (\Oponents ver­bally as well as physically. Off the field Reggie is prttt; ;nuch wrapped up m his studies, but he also likes abit of the good llfe. He is basically a quiet person with a good head on his shoulders. Another plus about Reggie is that he'll be around for another exciting year. 
Last but not least is Luther Bradley. Luther is called the "old man" because he has patches of premature grey on the top of his head. The only freshman in the secondary, Luther has had a tremendous year so far coming-up with five interceptions. Since he also is a quiet person, not many people have gotten to know him very well. But one can see he's a fine person with a pleasant personality. He has a great future ahead of him, and could become one of the greatest defensive backs that has ever 
.. played here at Notre Dame . Getting back to Air Force, it is the ninth step toward our impossible dream. I tell you Notre Dame just can't be denied. Go lrish, beat Air Force. 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
If, during the course of a ten-year career, one of the nation's best-known college football coaches com­piled a record of 82 wins, 15losses, and four ties, won one national championship and finished second twice, appeared in three post-season bowl games in four years and numbered opponents such as Texas, Southern Cal, LSU, and Missouri among his victims, than that coach's career might be called a successful one, right? 
And that same college coach, having achieved all those things during his career, might be said to have very few goals left to accomplish, right? 
Wrong. Particularly if the coach happens to be Notre Dame's Ara Parseghian. 
The veteran Irish mentor, who treats every game of every season as a personal challenge, always has the national championship as his long-range goal. But this year another goal and another challenge are a bit more immediate. 
For Parseghian's '73 Irish team is two-and maybe­three games away from presenting the ND coach with the one prize his coaching career has never before achieved: .c,n undefeated, untied season. 
The '73 Irish are currently s-o and ranked fifth nationally, and with only two games yet to be played-­a Thanksgiving Day home appearance against Air 
Force, and a December I road finale against the Miami Hurricanes--they are indeed close to giving Parseghian the perfect campaign he has so long sought. 
But the Irish coach, always cautious, isn't taking anything for granted. Even with eight-and-oh and two-to-go. 
"An undefeated season is one of out biggest ob­jectives, of course," he said. "But don't forget, we've been this close before-three times in the last ten years, in fact. Three times we've taken an unbeaten team into the last two games of the season, and look what has happened to us each time. 
"In 1964, we played Southern Cal out on the coast in our last game, and lost our unbeaten season in the las.t two minutes. It was the same thing in 1970. We went out there 9-G and came back with a loss on our record. In '66 we tied our ninth game of the season­that game with Michigan State. 
"So we've been close to the goal before, but dif­ferent quirks have always kept us from our final objective." 
But these quirks usually, have come in the form of USC's Trojans or MSU's Spartans. This year the only 

Head football coach Ara Parseghian. remaining obstacles are Air Force and Miami. "No," admitted Ara, "we don't have to worry about SouthernCalout there, but we do have to play Miami aown there. And you know what Miami has done in the Orange Bowl this year. They beat Texas, and they very nearly beat Oklahoma. And before Miami we've got to worry about Air Force. They're a dangerous team, too. They'll be trying to make their own season at our expense, and we never know what's going to happen when we play them." Parseghian's Irish, however, don't have to worry about playing anyone this weekend. They're currently in the middle of a 12-Uay preparation period for the Thanksgiving battle with the Academy's Falcons, and the ND coach, for one, was glad to see the scheduling break arrive. "I welcome it, " he said, "and I welcome it most of all because it will give us a chance to recover from some of our injuries. We got pretty banged up in the USC game (center Joe Alvarado and fullback Russ Kornman were both lost for several weeks), and last week Clements and (offensive tackle Steve) Neece both took some lumps. It was jus getting to be one thing after another. "So we're glad to have this break," he repeated. 
(continued on page 15) 






