
On The Inside 
Election Committee 
comments  ...page 2  
Fr. Burrell on  
sexuality  ...page 5  




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII, No. 93 T~esday, March 6, 1973 
SLC hears studies on black proposals 
by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 

Committee meetings regarding in­vestigations into proposals made at the black student hearing session comprised most of the discussion at yesterday's 
~n~ral meeting of the Student Life 
fC9uncil.\ --E. William Chapin, assistant professor of Mathematics, and Anthony Abowd presented a report on their investigations into the proposed minority experience course. From their discussion with University Provost Fr. James T. Burt­chaell. the report primarily calls for more communication between black students and the Notre Dame community, con­cerning problems encountered by blacks. The only motion made concerning the report's suggestions <which accompanies this story) was to postpone action until a later date. 
financial aid 

Results of the inquiry into financial aid programs for minority students were presented by Fr. James L. Shilts, asst. vice-president of administration. In­formation from the office of Financial Aid whoed that a loss of $80,000 from federally financed minority scholarships may disappear as a result of President Nixon's cutback on money previously allocated for scholarships by Congress. 
Present at the meeting was Carl Ellison, who led the black students' panel presentation at the February 5 SLC hearing. He discouraged any further effort on the part of the SLC to obtain endowment increases. His suggestion resulted from a personal interview with University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, who explained the impossibility of any aid incrpse due to lack of available money. This suggestion was carried. 
The possibility of obtaining a black house is being looked into by Dr. Robert Ackerman. assistant to the vice-presdietn of student affairs, who is waiting to hear from schools which have already in­corporated black houses as part of their campus facilities. He plans to visit these schools to gather more details when they respond to his inquiries. 

protestant services 
Two points were made by Fr. William Toohey. director of campus ministry, reacting to investigations into obtaining church service for black and non-Catholic students. He stated that in the past, campus ministry has arranged Protestant services on campus, and that it is possible to arrange them on request. Secondly, he felt that he could not make any moves on the issue until blacks make their needs known to him. To facilitate this, it was moved to contact a protestant faculty member to aid in discussions between blacks and the campus ministry. However, decision on the motion was postponed. 
Student Body vice-president Dennis Ettiene reported his findings concerning the lack of black cultural events. The Student Union Social Commission feels the problem is that there is no black student input. that there are no blacks on any of the committees. although the Social Commision is looking for black in­Yolvement. A suggestion was made to form a black committee to set up an initial concert. backed by the Student Union, to start off in the hope that its success would promote continuing activities. 


social activities 
'the problem of poor dormitory social activities for blacks was presented to the llall President's Council. None of the hall pn•sidents felt that hall activities excluded blacks and cited the wide black par­ticipation in interhall sports and hall game tournaments as evidence. It was also felt that relationships between blacks and whites have improved since the former black concentration in Alumni and Dillon halls were broken up. The HPC suggested that black students should take the in­titiative by bringing problems to their hall councils. 
Investigation into the problem of loding for visiting black women has shown that there is a lack of bed space and hostesses. Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the Provost, suggested the purchase of roll-up cots to ease the problem. 
Bill Assignments were made to their committees, and all other reports were postponed until the next general meeting on March 26th. 
Senior Carl Ellison expressed his opinion of the meeting, "The Student Life ­Council seems quite well-meaning in addressing the concerns articulated to it by black students. Well-meaningness, however. seldom produces results." 
"We challenged the SLC and the University in general to become pioneering in dealing with the problems of black students. Most of our proposals were pioneering and therefore subject to scrutiny." 
"But most of the investigations which were presented today strike me as cur­sory, impotent and _narrow-sighted because the lily-white S'LC seems as capable of understanding the thrust of the delineated proposals, as does the entire student body," concluded Ellison. 

The following is the text of the report presented to the SLC on proposals for a minority experience course. 
At the February fifth Hearing Meeting of the SLC. representatives from among the Black students on campus expressed their strong feeling that it would be ad­\'antageous for the other students at Notre Dame to learn something more of the Black Experience. They suggested, as a mechanism to accomplish this, a University-required course for all students in some area of the Black Experience. When Mr. Faccenda communicated this proposal. along with others, at the February twelfth meeting of the SLC, Anthony Abowd and Professor E. William Chapin were designated to meet with Father Burtchaell and discuss the matter. 
From the discussion of Abowd, Burt­chaell. and Chapin, it became clear that, while the goal expressed by the Black students was a most desirable one, there are perhaps more satisfactory ways of achieving it than the one suggested. The number of University requirements is quite small and there is a natural reluc­tance to increase their number, both on the part of students and of faculty. In par­ticular. it seems clear that a course, one of whose primary purposes would be the changing of attitudes and the amelioration of human relationships, might well be self­defeating if presented as a requirement: while learning is often achieved in somewhat constrained circumstances, change of attitudes and great sympathy rarely are. Further, the current requirements of several of the Colleges of courses in History, Social Sciences, etc., (areas in which there are courses in Black Studies) would seem already to allow the student who wishes to so to to improve his understanding of the Black Experience and simultaneously fulfill a course requirement. The current lack of al'iailable highly-qualified faculty in sufficient numbers to.teach many sections of further courses in this area precludes the addition of more sections of more courses artificially created at this time simply for the purpose of a new requirement. For, in any such course, unless the instructor is both highly trained and highly qualified, and highly motivated. the whole course experience is likely to be negative. Finally. experience 
(continued on page 6) 

Etienne reveals new constitution in planning stage 
by Steve Magdzinski Staff Reporter 

Plans for the new Student Government Constitution call for a forum consisting of the Hall President's Council, four or five Off-Camous representatives and possibly the Student Life Council, indicated Student Body Vice­President Dennis "H-Man" Etienne yesterday. 
Inclusion of Off-Campus representatives and the SLC would prevent the forum from con­cerning itself only with hall-related problems, said Etienne. The main tasks of the forum would be to approve appointments, control the budget and make recom­mendations to the student body president 
Plans also allow for a strong executive, stated Etienne. The Student Body President would have an executive cabinet and would head the forum and the cabinet. 
Commenting on the possibility of another SBP election fiasco later this semester, Etienne said there would definitely be an election, but added, "I can't see us getting into the same mess." He said there are plans to assure that the SBP be "popularly and directly elected," but did not want to make them public-at the present time. He also said the runoff election would hopefully be representative of the students. 
Etienne hoped the plans for the new constitution would be finalized by Monday or Tuesday after spring 



Dennis Etienne: plans are in the making for another election that would see the SBP "popularly and directly Plected." 
break. He said there are different 
people with different ideas 
working on the new constitution 
and changes other than those he 
mentioned may become part of the 
constitution. 

Etienne had no comment on the illegality of the postponement of Sunday's election. But Judicial Coordinator Greg Smith said, "We wanted to get responsible leadership. It was done illegally, but in all justice, we felt these were the steps that had to be taken." He said he had asked the student leaders to be more responsive. "Bob <Kersten) has acted out of principle." 
• 

the observer Tuesday, March 6, 1973 


warld 

briefs 
(c) 197.1 New York TimP.~ 

Washington--Secretary of Defense Elliott L. Richardson and William p. Clements, Deputy Defense Secretary, in separate mettings in Washington warned North Vietnam to live up to cease-fire agreements in South Vietnam and Laos if she expects to receive n•construction aid from the United States. 
Washington--Some of th~ senior American pilo~s agreed--while sti.ll prisoners of war in Hanm--to set up a corporatiOn to. manage their income from publishing. speechmaking and ot~er pubhc app~arances upon their return home. sources close to the prisoners have disclosed. 
Washington--Secretary of State William P. Rogers recommended tlw death penalty for the Arab terrorists who murdered the American ambassador and charged' affaires and the Belgian charge in Khar­toum. the Sudan. "I don't know any other way to deal with this," Hogen; told ne~smen afte.r a closedmeeting wi~h the Sen~te f~reign rf'lations cormmftee. "I thmk the death penalty IS appropriate. 
Washington--The President of the American Newspaper Publishers Association. the managing editor of the New York Times and the pr('sident of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association--testifying at a new round of hearings by a house judiciary subcommittee on a proposed "newsman's shield" law--strongly recommended that a fed('ral law grant newsmen absolute privilege from disclosing con­fid('nlial sources of information and unpublished information in fPdPral nr state judicial proceedings. 
an campus l:aday 
7:30 p.m.--meeting, astronomy club, all are in vi led 'o attend, 329 niewland science hall 
8:00 p.m.--piano recital, moreau tittle theatre, smc  ronald  morebella,  
B: 00 p.m.--lecture, sen a tor auditorium  birch ba yh, librarY  


at nd-smc 
Committee mernbers corn.ment on election 
by Davis Kaminski  
Staff Reporter  
St•veral members of the Election  
I ! I  Committee. which was symied in its attempt to hold elections last .Sunday. commented yesterday on tlwir actions as a committee and tlwir reactions to the events since  
I I I r  Election Tuesday which culminated in the declaration of martial law. The committee members in­terviewed. Paul Dziedzic, Rod Braye. T. C. Treanor, and Diane 1\lcDonnell. all agreed that they  
~ ' r  Print collection  
~ r  displayed today  
~  in Art Gallery  
Original lithographs. serigraph <llld woodcut prints by old master and modern master artists will be  
<•xhihited Tuesday <March 6) from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Hall Gallery. Valued at more than $100,000, the display includes.works of Albrecht Durer. .Jacques Ca !lot. Georges Houault and Pablo Picasso.  
Contemporary <)rtists represented include Leonard Baskin, Garo :\ntresian. ·Mark Tobey, Sid Chafetz. S.W. Hayter, and Notre l>am<''s Don Vogl. Provided by the Lakeside Studio, Lakeside, Mich .. all prints are m·ailable for purchase.  


ran thP election with a specific, non-political philosophy in mind. That philosophy allowed the students to make as free a choice as possible for SBP. 
Dziedzic commented, "We tried to provide as many options to the students as we could. Hence the subsidy· for all candidates at Campus Press. hence the Election special. and hence allowing blank and write in ballots." 
"WP ran a clean election with no pol i I ical prejudices," claimed 1\lcDonnell. However, the actions of the Board of Commissioners and KPrsten's dec.Jaration of martial law brought greatly varied IPgality or the illegality of the martial law decree," Dziedzic said. "When you're in a position of responsibility. you do the things vou think should be done until ~pmeone tells you that you shouldn't do them any more . 
reactions  from  the  committee  
nwmbers.  
"I  am  not  bothered  by  the  

"I don't know if martial law was a good or bad political decision. It was. however. purely a political decision," he added. 
Treanor and McDonnell disagreed. 
"I don't think martial law was a good move," stated Treanor. "I think that Kersten should have run again on Sunday and if he had won, lhPn he could make whatever ehanges that he thought necessary. Tlw wisdom of this decision will only be shown by the caliber of 




NASSAU 
Flight Times 
March 9 Check in at Metro Airport 5:30·6:00 Depart 7:00 pm Arrive Nassau 10:00 pm 
March 16 Check in at 8:15 Depart 
10:30 pm Arrive Detroit 1:00 am 
Buses will leave from the circle in the early afternoon (1 or 2 pm) Bus tickets are on sale at S.U. ·ticket office. 
eonstitution that is produced over vacation." "I resent martial law," (continued on page 6) 
Tf1e Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 111ilY be purchased for $8 per seml'ster ($14 per year) from The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd iana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
~6556. 
elaughter 
the problems the success and failures 
knowing that where there is human need in the cities, the suburbs, in. parishes, 
campus .·... 
is there· 



All Aboard! ! 
Planning to go on South Shore Train Party and Tour? 
If you haven't bought your tickets yet you have till March 9 to do so. $5 down will hold your place on the train till after spring break. 
STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 3rd FLOOR LA FORTUNE


TIX AVAILABLE: 
. FIESTA LOUNGE 
NEW HOURS: Morning: M W F 11 :00-12:30 T Th 11:30-1:00 
Afternoon: M W 3:15-5:15 Tues. 2:45-4:45 Thurs. 1:00-3:00 

Tuesday, March 6, 1973 the observer 
College faculties move toward unionization 
by Don Ruane Executive Editor 

Faculty groups at two higher education institutions considering collective bargaining while an election is p<'nding at another. and a fourth has suffered a faculty strike. 
These are only a few examples of the trend towards faculty unions. which has been creeping across the llnited States for the last 10 years. Its shadow, as someone against collective bargaining might call it, passed over Notre Dame in late January when the local American Association of University Professors <AAtiPl chapter. sponsored a discussion of the issues with the national AAUP coordinator for collective bargaining. The shadow is expected to return before the semPsler is out. by means of another discussion "·ith faculty guests who are working under collective bargaining agreements. 
But not everyone, especially young faculty, see collective bargaining as a threat to their professionalism and security. At Northeastern llniversity in Boston. a 60-member Union Caucus has been formed largely due to pressure from young faculty and administrators to do away with tenure, leaving little job security and academic freedom. 
A strong sentiment for unionization exists among 
more than 50 percent of the faculty according to Prof. 
Hov Weinstein. a member of the caucus. He said the 
lm1.ior problem is choosing the best agent, rather than 
choosing to have a union. Weinstein attributed the 
11E.'ed for a union to the "obstreperous nature" of 

Northeastern's president. 

ULIES OF THE· 
FIELD WE ARE 1101. 
Remember the lilies of the bible? They toiled not. Neither did they spin. As Dominican Sisters of the Sick Poor we toil for the young as well as the old, for the acute as well as the chronically ill and we care not for their race or re­ligion for all are of the kingdom of God. Our feet carry us along busy streets, up and down tene­ment stairs,in and out of homes where illness, ignorance, discour­agement and despair are some­times permanent guests. Nursing, counseling, helping to keep fam­ilies together ;n their homes as one loving unit. The Dominican Sisters of the Sick Poor achiev­ing the impossible every day of the year. 
To Jearn bow you can serve as a Dominican Sisterof the Sick Poor write to: Sister Marguerite Mitche11, Vocation Director Room 103 Mariandale, Ossini~. 
New York 10562 

The traditional concept of shared authority between faculty and administration has shifted heavily in favor of the administration at Northeastern, according to a formcr Massachusetts AAUP conference president. 
Prof. Norbert Fullington, who is also a past president of the local chapter, said, "faculty have little input in areas where their interests are vitally at stake." He added, "Most administrations view their universities and colleges as a business, and this leads lo a changing role of faculty from officers to em­ployees." 
Prof. Edward Hacker. who tried to organize Nor· theastern's faculty two and a half years ago but failed, lhinks this role change presents a psychological barrier to unions. 
"Faculty members don't want to consider them­st>lves employees." he said. "John Dewey spoke about false professionalism. We are employees." 
Prof. James Feldman, a caucus member, is more conservative because of an unfavorable experience at lhe State University of New York. Wages there were increased according to title, and not by individual m eril. 
He is also hesitant to believe a union would give faculty more voice, and that the faculty could main­tain unity in times of great strain, such as that caused by shrinking enrollments. 
Both Feldman and Weinstein see the faculty senate as a more viable solution. Feldman thinks a strong senate would eliminate the need for a union. 
However. Dr. Thomas Arnold of King's College, Wilkes-Barre. Pennsylvania, feels that "the institution of collective bargaining is inevitable in college education. It is something that college administrators will have to accept, and any administrator who cannot adjust simply should not be an adminish~tor." 
King's College faculty are awaiting the decision by the National Labor Relations Board as to the eligibility of an assistant student dean, and assistant chaplain and the director of evening and summer session to vote for an agent or no agent. . Arnold is the prime organizer on the campus, but he 1s not connected with any organization such as a faculty senate or the AAUP. His motives are "to protect professional status and prevent certain con­ditions from being eroded away," and to establish a "bona fide" grievance procedure. 
He says that every time a conflict arises each person must do what he thinks morally right, which enlarges the conflict. "Becoming involved in conflicts requires time and effort. That time and effort could be better spe_nt in preparing lectures or doing research," he ela1med. 
Like his colleagues at Northeastern, Arnold says faculty avoid unionization because they feel it is un­professional. But he questions the good of professionalism without the protection of academic freedom. 
Another reaosn is fear. 
"Ninety-nine per cent of collective bargainings are peaceful. without strikes or violence, but we read about the exceptions," Arnold says. Teachers at Lake Michigan College, Benton Harbot, for example, went on strike Feb. 16 when negotiations broke down leading to a student boycott of classes. ' 
(continued on page 6) 


~ ~pte bullefe bet,. 
~\~ ..., 
Tile Equitable Lila Aaouranca Society of the United States, Now York, N.Y. An Equal Opportunil)r Emplo~r. MIF THE EQUITABLE 
Fora free 18" x 24" poster of this advertisement, write: The Equitable, De t. J., G.P.O. Box 1170, New Yo N.Y. 10001 
L________________________________________________________________ -----­




OBSERVER 
COMMENT 
Tuesday, March 6, 1973 Page 4 
Letters 
scribblings? 

J<:ditor: 
Mr. Hunt certainly succeeded in Wednesday's assignment: writing off the top of his head. Regretfully, howt>ver. he failed in his objective, in that he neglected to com­municate any intelligence what­soever. Mr. Huntfell victim to that agl' old nemesis which afflicts all crackpots: He used crude, ob­solescent. and utterly ridiculous argunH'nls in his hapless attempt to make a case. I feel sorry for Mr. llunt because his was a truly r<'grcttable attempt. His apparent ('hoic<' of abortion as a solution to social problems would seem to indicate that he, and those of like op11110n. would attempt to maximize their own comforts by l'nforcing their own prejudices. 
Dr. Wilke. in his Handbook on Abortion says: "Our new per­missive abortion laws represent a l'Omplcte about-face, a total t·ejl'ction of one of the core values of western man, and an acceptance of a new ('thic in which life has only a rf.'lative value. No longer will Pvery human have a right to live simply because he exists. Man will now b(' allowed to exist only if he nwasures up to standards of in­dependence, physical perfection, or utilitarian usefulness to others. This is a momentous change that strikes at the root of western 
· l'ivilization." 
1 suggest that you educate ,·ourself on the real problem Mr. ilunt. before you again subject us to vour nonsensica I paranoid 
scrihblings 
J<:ugene Diamond 

slavishness 

l•:ditor: 
Boh !Iiggins' column of the Ohsen•er's refusal to endorse a candidate in the Student Body l'lt>clions attributes to that publication a curious mixture of omnisci<'nce. reader loyalty, and rl'liability which will no doubt surprise and amuse the majority of its rt>aders. 
1\:ot only has Mr. Higgins totally misconstrued the place and pur­pose of a campus newspaper, he has further more insulted the large nwjority of students who are capable of studying the issues on tlwir own initiative, and con­sPqm•ntly making an intelligent choic<'. It is ludicrous to portray 
... on elections 
the Observer as a font of wisdom 
surrounded by a void of ignorance. 
It is even more ludicrous <as well 
as personally insulting to myself 
and rna ny others) to assert that the 
student body is incapable of 
making informed, rational 
decisions on important matters 
without the ideological direc­
torship of the Observer's Editorial 
Board. 

As flawed as his conception of journalism thus appears to be, it shrinks in comparison to the faulty logic that runs rampant through his assertions. To see the Ob­sen•er's refusal to endorse a candidate as a declaration that no one should be elected, is to use a brand of illogic highly unbecoming to a campus publication. And to assuml.' that students refer to Observer l.'ditorials for answers to qul.'stions beyond the scope of their intelll.'ctual capabilities, is a sl.'rious affront to the intelligence of the entire student body. In fact,, if Mr. Higgins finds himself ate taching such a reverent lm: portance to the dictates of· 'the Observer's Editorial Board'; he has my heartfelt sympathy: For such compliance is not r~ect; it is a peculiar form of sltlvishness. 
Sincerely, Kerry McNamar11 


sealed ballots 
Editor: 

It amazes me that the editorial 
staff of the Observer, who failed to 
take a stand on any candidate, who 
decried the assorted political 
1naneuverings, and who generally 
east a light (if, indeed.one cancall 
it a "light") of annoying triviality 
upon this "extravaganza", can 
publish a hypercritical "analysis" 
(I am refering here to executive 
t>ditor Don Ruane's column on 
Wt>dnl.'sday, Feb. 2Bthl of the way 
things wl.'re run. I mean if it 
dol.'sn't appear to you to have any 
nwaning. why concern youself 
wilh pt•tty offenses; they are bound 
to happen and get reported, but 
unless it's a matter of life-and­
dl'ath. I can't, looking through 
your viewpoint. see any reason to 
harp on it. 

Howl.'ver. the main reason I am 
writing this is directed at the 
selfrighteous Mr. Ruane; 
specifically. concerning his 
rl.'porting on my delivery of an 
undisclosed number of ballots to 
the Keenan election committee. 
Yes. I did. but I think that the 
circumstances surrounding it are 
more important. As I recall, !l 
number of people, myself included, wl're milling about the office when a call was received from Keenan requesting some ballots. Since it seemed urgent <some people were waiting when I got there) Patty, 
It he office secretary l placed a number of ballots into an envelope and asked if anyone would care to bring them over to Keenan; when no one volunteered. I stated that I would. and announced, however, that I was a candidate, and there could be some objections. When it appl.'ared that, either there weren't any or l.'lse no one felt moved to take them. she sealed the envelope and handed it to me. When I got to Kl'enan hall. I told the person at thl.' ballot box that I was a can­didate. and prefered that he check 
the ballots to see that they were unmarked; he did and they were. 
Thl.' crux of the situation is this, Mr. Huane: if you were so damned concerned. why the hell didn't you take them over there yourself? You were so damned worried that you ended up walking over there anyway. so in the long run, it wouldn't have been much more trouble. except that you would have had to carry that oh-so-heavy envelope. Had I cheated, I assure vou, it would have been obvious--­ihat stack would have more than doubled the total number of ballots I received. 
I don't question that the duty of a good reporter is to dig up facts, but he should state all of the facts. I think even you can realize, howl.'ver. that holding a pre-set dim view of "politicians" can color ~·our judgement. I get the im­pression. somehow, that if you \\'Prl.' standing on a farm in the Anwrican middle west. and heard the thundering of hoofbeats behind ~·ou. that you'd strongly consider thl.' possiblity that you were about to be trampled by a herd of zebras. 
!{ather than cast any open aspl.'rsions on you. Mr. Ruane, I will simply refer you to your notes (if vou still have them) from the sociology class we shared last sl.'nwster: "Deviant Behavior", taught by Dr. Dodge; look at the notes for September 29th, and obser-ve Huth Cavan's "continuum of conformity", especially the "F" ea tpgory. because it appears to me 
Ihat's where you belong!  Consider  
it.  howl'ver,  only  a  value  
judgement on my part.  

Don Nollet 


Dpinian On Writers And Politicians 


There is a great deal of similarity between a politician and a writer. Both of them have an awful lot of nerve to think that what they have to offer is important enough to demand the attention of others. To think ~·ou have a firm enough hold on "the truth" to go around spouting it off as if you and your ideas are very important is action not to be taken lightly. I have to be very careful because I am not only about to write but I am going to write about politics. As a writer I have a respon­sibility to take the reader seriously and, though I will not try to give ~·ou a great deal of "truth", I will discuss a few honest questions. 
During the past few weeks the campus has been covered with political campaigns for next year's Student Body President and Vice President. Having the dubious honor of cuvering the election for the Obsen•er. I have seen firsthand what last year I saw only from a distance. Some students looked at this year's election and became all l.'nlhused, others laughed, others, like me, feel a genuine sense of dissappointment. Not so much because "our man" qidn't win but hl.'cause the whole thing is such a waste. 
If you looked closely enough at what went on, it was really very sad. Otherwise really fine people. people with so much more to offer than most students. got all caught up in themselves, battlirtg to come out on top of the other guy. It got to the point where these so-called student lt>adPrs became so involved in personality slams, duplicity and self­righteousness. the only thing responsible students could do was try to ignorl' thl'm. 
In the first election the two candidates who made the run-off each garnered the support of about 10 per cent of the entire student body, hardly a decisive victory. After that. some of the losers decided to gang up on the winners and call them unrepresentative. This ·small group of students then persuaded the present regime to step in and turn the l.'!ection into a fiasco, completely disregarding student govl'rnml.'nt procedures. 
Thl.' problem was what to do with a seemingly unrepresentative l'll.'clion. The given answer was to throw out the rules so that a few people could get what they arbitrarily thought the students wanted. 
They planned an abstention vote campatgn and covered up the whole mess with the same old, unfunny comedy routine$. Nobody laughs as hard at the re-runs. They got the support of 25 per cent of the student body 150 per cent consistently, perhaps kni)Wledgably, avoiding the issue land considered this a mandate for furtller action­till.' fact that most cast abstentions more as a Neilson rating for a well done pep· rally notwithstanding. 
A nf.'w l.'lection was called and hopefully the studentslwould act in a more approved manner. A few students moved in, deux ex machina, in loco parentis. and decided to stop everything while they get together and decide how things should be. 
Tlw result is that everybody is a little bit sick. 
Anybody who campaigned seriously in the first election, and there wPI'I.' a few. would have to feel like they have wasted their time. l•:ll.'clions do not seem to mean much anymore. Why bother to work within a system when a few people can change the system when it dissatisfies them? They tried. but brick walls have always been pretty rough to bl.'at your head into. How does Student Government answer thosl.' people? 
As far as the basically disinterested, basically sane half of the studmt body is concerned, they have lost as well. Although all they havl.' ll'arnl.'d to expect from Student Government is some good movil.'s. eoncerts or lectures. this election has shown that there is little ch<llll'l.' for anything else to come from the organization. Also, they not onl~· have to l.'xperience an unprincipled Student Government, but support it by their activities fee. 
Th1s ~·l.'ar tlw student body was faced with an unrepresentative group of eandidates who operated in a corrupt system, not much choice and not even a fair chance to choose. 
\\'hel'l.' <1re the student leaders? Is there any such thing·! If there are, <ll'(' tlwy wise Pnough to keep out of unfunny jokes? Probably they are the onl.'s working in areas of real need and they should stay there. Should tlw small number of people who think they themselves are lt>adl'rs [)(' allowl'd to gnaw each other to death? 
Is tlw Pxist ing Student Government structure worth keeping? If it is, what kind of people are needed to make it worth the effort? What should it do'1 
I <lSkl'd a friend of mine who he was voting for and he gave me an honl.'st "Who cares?" I don't know. It seems that there are student probll.'ms that a student government should take care of. I can't help fel.'ling that sometimes writers and politicians have to be serious. 01hl.'rwise all we would have is comic books. 
daan•sbury prry trud•au 
~----------------~ 
1. -wi]) ta:ke. as 
comprehensive. an
In my pape.r, l intend 
approach as pos.sible._, 
Ridicule. ond abuse.
to out1jne the. m~or 
positi~ as])l!.c.ts of 
but it should. be 
th~ observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Beth Hall St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Associate Editors: Ed Ellis. Bob Higgins Special Proiects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: Kathy Schwille Ass't. Night Editor: Robert Baker Layout· Kalhy, Robert Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Copy Editor: Mike O'Hare Picture· Jcrom!' Day Editor. Jim Gresser Typists: Barb Norcross. Rob Barringer, Stl've Roper. Tom Modglin Compugraphic: Rich MeLoy Night Controller: John Flannigan 
-----~ --­

----------------------------------......, 
Tuesday, March ~. 1973 the -observer 
5 

human sexuality and the notre dame student 
(Below is a typescript of the remarks Rev. David Burrell, esc., made last fall on human sexuality.--Ed.) 
I want to reflect with you on some issues of human sexuality, taking it first in its widest sense: the ways in which I use my maleness and femaleness. The fact that I a man or a woman permeates really almost everything we do. It's the first thing that is said of a person. "That's a beautiful baby ~ere, What's her name?" It's our prim~ry identity. "Little girls don't do that." "If you want to be a big boy, you shouldn't act that way." And yet what we were asked to speak about this evening are more properly the ways in which we relate to one another. I would like to refer to these ways as "body language." The first listing for the term 'intercourse' is 'conversation'. The fact that intercourse can be con­versation sets the stage for human sexuality. Let's try to remember as well that the noun 'sexuality' is abstract in form.· It refers more properly as an adjective, to 
the fact that we are sexual beings or per­sons. The language that we use is telling. I was at a party once when a fellow turned to his 
1 
1 
friend to say: "Let's go. I want to get me 
1 
some sex." That's crude, yet we know it's 
, crude because it's ungrammatical. The statem!'nt leads us to believe that sex is a eommodity. Yet this is simply a more candid version of an atmosphere pervading our culture. We sell commodities by a shapely female body so regularly that we come to identify women with a commodity. 
So the way we talk about overt sexual activity indicates how we feel about it. And our feelings provide a reliable key to what w!' think is going on. Differe!}t descriptions lead to different worlds. The way we describe a thing offers-the best indication of where we stand regarding it. If you speak of "ripping something off" at the super­market. I assume you're going to approve of that. But if you report something stolen, I presume you would prosecute the thief. If I talk about "pacification," that sounds like a contructive government program. If I talk about serial bombardment, defoliation, uprooting and resettling families, that describes a reign of terror. So the way we talk about something reveals the per­spective we have. 
body language 

More poignantly still, sexual activity itself is a language. So some reflection on its grammer might help us to make revelant judgements. I would like to bring out !'nough relevant features of what Icall body language, so that those features can serve as checkpoints for the kinds of decisions that we have to make. I'm not talking about something that we can afford to overlook, for !'ach of us uses his or her body as a nwdium of expression. Yet we all need pt'rspective because there are forces here that are stronger that I, and will shape me for good or for ill. The ways in which I Pxpress myself bodily are not merely somt'thing that I do or that I am engaged in, but something that shapes what 1 will becom!'. I want to limit myself to h!'terosexual situations, hense the focus is on the difference, the yin-yang of human life and origins. 
Eden story 

I shall take it that circumstances, body chemistry. and an inbuilt sense of adventure 
1 
carry us from innocence into some form of !'xperience. That's what the Eden story is about. This fact. like the Eden-event itself, how!'ver. is not particularly relevant. What is relevant is how we deal with it: how we understand it, what part it plays in our 
'i.tory. and how rich that story is..We seem to ~ble to learn only retrospectively here, only 1ts...we look back upon our lives. But learn that WIJJ we can, as nearly everyone here already has learned. We look back on high school. There ar_e. some things that we would not write about~ We wouldn't quite know how to write about them, and might even want to eliminate them from our story. Yet as human beings, we cannot es~ape the demand to make of our lives a story. We may try putting it off, but we cannot avoid it entirely. 
the intention 

The relative richness of my story makes a 
·huge difference. Say I'm acting out of rebellion against home, church, authority, or whatever. That colors what I am able to say by what I do. Let's say I'm acting out of a male ego trip---timetable and all that--­then that overall intention affects the sin-. eerily of what I'm saying by what I'm doing. Or say I'm on a female ego trip---more timing than timetable---here again the overriding intention affects what I'm able to say by what I'm doing. I suggested earlier that the expressions we employ in using our bodies have a grammar of their own and resist our manipulating them. For in awakening that dimension of ourself we call sexual. we are engaging powers and forces not wholely amenable to our conscious control. 
pacts 

When I say that body language has a grammar of it's own, what I mean is that we cannot deliberately restrict what we want to say. The mprelntimate we are with another, the more·we entitle that person to share in our lives. Now the clearest and most dt'liberate of pacts will be tested. We will want to know whether the other person is willing to say more than that. If he or she is not. then the time will come when we ask ourselves why we continue to carry on with them--or carry on at all. At some point "playing around" needs to become serious, and yetw!' have no new gestures to express it. When that time comes, we will have to learn how to employ these same gestures seriouslv. ­
"playing around" 

Ht're we have the rationale, of course, for the view that places sexual intercourse itself beyond "playing around," since its very grammar bespeaks a kind of com­mitment On that view, the most humane poncy would strive to retain at least one form of expression for attempting serious eommunication. As an ethical policy, it allows room for failure, but asks that we call it that. My concern here, hq~ever, is simply to underscore the fact that' the. time nor­mally comes when one wants to use body language seriously. And if we try to live as though that time will never arrive, then our story becomes the one Mike Nichols por­trayed so poignantly in ''Carnal Knowledge." That film confirms in a negative way what I am proposing for your reflections: that body language has a grammar such that we can use or abuse it. 1\nd we acknowledge that fact in practice when we are sensitive to the consequences of what we do. 
pledge of love 

What do I mean by "using these bodily !'Xpressions seriously?" I mean engaging in 
"When I say that body language has a gram mar of its own, what I mean is that we cannot deliberately restrict what we want to say. T-he more intimate we 
are with another, the more we entitle that person 
to share in our lives. Now the clearest and most deliberate of pacts that we try to make with one another--let a particular body expression mean this 
and nothing more--the most deliberate of pacts will 
be tested." 
father david burrell 
"More poignantly still, sexual activity itself 
language. So some reflection on its grammar might help us to make relevant judgements. I would like to bring out enough relevant features of what I call body language, so that those features can serve as checkpoints for the kinds of decisions that we have to make. 
I'm not talking about something that we can afford to overlook, for each of us uses his or her body as a 
medium of expression." 
them with a great deal more than ego­satisfaction in mind. I mean undertaking them as a sign and a pledge of love which promises to carry me along on a journey where neither person knows the outcome, yet both sense it will be richer than going it alone. But anything so death-dealing to my ego, anything risked merely on the hope of a richer life, entails a mutual commitment. How can I load all that onto sexual in­lt'rcourse as its intrinsic meaning? I don't, of course. I can appeal here to a cumulative testimony of sensitive human beings over a long span of history; and more recently to a prophetic figure often touted as a champion of the "sexual revolution": D. H. Lawrence. I can also appeal to the miniscule (by contrast) experience of each one of us: to share intimately, bodily, with another is to offer something of ourselves. Or if in fact it isn't. there will be times--with another, perhaps--when I want it to be. And that single fact is critical enough to make me want to be consistent about it. 
tantamount .to marriage 
All of this suggests that the conditions which most of us would set up for authentic pre-marital intercourse are tantamount to marriage. It's just that we would .J,ike to know first! But that dilemma 1s not restricted to the domain of. sexual ex­pression. Most of us would prefer being dispensed from any journey we undertake, ineluding the big one of my life itself. Or at lt'ast we would like to know the outcome before we set ·out. The great journey narratives allay this anxiety by providing tht' hero with a companion. Each pledges to stick with the other until the end. When intimacy moves beyond "satisfaction," it .tends to latch onto images like these mythical ones. 
precious intimacy 
Tht' ethics of sexuality focusses on this simple fact: there is no language so well­suited to express intimacy as the body­language of sexual expression. And in­timacy is so precious a thing that we would bt' foolish to dilute the most appropriate language we have. The effects of diluting language are only too blatant in our midst. Wlwn "pacification" entails mass disruption of families, defoliation of forests and of crops. and all the trappings of 
,regim!'nted loyalty, then we might expect an outraged babysitter--parent even--to steam into the bedroom thinking: I'd like to really pacify him! The manipulative skills of the technocrats extent to language itself, allowing them to invade the privacy of our rt'lations with one another. As W. H. Auden once remarked: "when language corrupts, crim!' abounds." Once. we come to feel how much of a language bodily expression can _bt'. we can appreciate th1Norce of Auden's rt'marks in a fresh way. 
growing awareness 
can only presume there is a'g-rowing awareness of these facts of life and language on the part of each one of us. We made it through the high-school years only because we were about 6 percent conscious! The more conscious we are, the more intent W!' are on saying what we mean and meaning what we say. And the more wary we are of our capacity to deceive ourselves and to manipulate others. Hence the more r!'verent we try to be of the power that sexuality,releases: a power to break down our fronts. to shatter our ego-bumpers, if we let it. Or one that same ego can use to reinforce its power over others. 
The first way is more threatening, but respecting it, following it, leads to life. The second way is more normal, more usual, but its internal inertia leads to death. And we know that, each of us. 
power as well as need 
So sexuality, the ways in which I live with, and use my maleness or femaleness, ,i&-a fact. It is a power as well as a need, ·like food. Yet it is a human fact as w.ell, like the language we use to express-.Ourselves. The invitation of a human,-t.!S~ of sexuality in­volves tempering t~eneed so that it does not feed the illusions-<01 my ego, but becomes an !'xpression of me. And an act of expressing mt' which reveres those dimensions of me and of the other which I cannot pretend to comprehend, has the effect of constituting and even of reconstituting me. Actions which carry this much weight never simply t'Xpress who I am; they also serve to un­make or to remake me. 
temperance 
The particular strength we need to call upon here has a classical name: tem­perance. And we learn to live temperately not by repressing our needs but by listening to them. and by respecting both sides of them: 1he yin as well as the yang, the silence along with the sounds. The program for growing up into this particular strength was outlined by the Hebrew sage Qoheleth: 
For everything its season, and for every activity under heaven its time a time to be born and a time to die; a time to plant and a time to uproot; a time to kill and a time to heal; a time to pull down and a time tol>11ild 11p: a time to weep and a time to laugh; a time for mourning and a time for dancing; a time to scatter stones and a time to gather them: a time to embrace and a time to refrain from em bracing; a time to seek and a time to lose; 
a time to keep and a time to throw away; a time to tear and a time to mend; 
a. time for silence and a time for speech: a time for love and a time for hate; a time for war and a time for peace. 


the observer Tuesday, March 6, 1973
6 



Election Co1n1nittee dissatisfied vvith develop1nents 
I 
~ (continued from page 2) 
f 
!\1t'Donnell commented. "I don't heli£>ve it represents the student 

t 
body; I don't believe that power to 

~ 
th£' HPC was a program that the 

~ 
students wanted. 

~ 
"I eould laugh at this situation

I 
but student government is im­

~ 
portant for too many things for it to 

I 
be a joke. Since Tuesday, the 

~ 
I 
stud£>nts only counted as votes which eould give power to those who decided they should be pow(•rful." 
Treanor strongly criticized the Board of Commissioners in their action to stop write in voting in Thursday's election. "The Board of Commissioners acted really 'hush' in this matter," he said. 

"It was no secret to me that the majorityof the people on the board were Clarke supporters. 
"It was the first time in my nwmory that write-in voting has b£>en disallowed in any election at Nolr£> Dame. The Commissioners prov£>d to be no more represen­tative of the students than the old Student Senate." 
I 
like the Board of Commissioners." 
I 

Unionization still controversial 
All of the election committee
I 
~ 
I (continued from page 3) I King's College faculty, when ~ th('V vote, will have a choice I l)('t~£>en two long time rivals as I a~ents. and "no agent," which is ~ n•quired by law to be on the ballot. lr The rivals are the American ~ !<'£>deration of Teachers whose I affiliate, the Pennsylvaniai !<'£>deration of Teachers, will be 
pitted against the Pennsylvania f State Education Association, as affiliate of the National Education ~ Association. Both the AFT and the NEA have long histories in 
I 
I 
t 
~ 
I 
Text of SLC report continued 
(continued from page I) C'Xperience would indicate that any sort of one-to-many com­munication in a somewhat im­pC'rsonal atmosphere which is C'xtended over sufficiently great lengths of time is not particularly C'ffC'cti ve in conveying the ex­pC'rience of a people. 
In order to attain the objectives mentioned above, there are se1•eral realistic avenues open. The first is one that has been present for several years but perhaps not fully utilized. This is the availability of time during the FrC'shman Orientation Period for the Black community at Notre Dame to express its situation, needs. and problems to the Fresh­men at large. This opportunity can 
be tltdi~C'd primarily to introduce the new Black Freshmen to the Black community on campus, but, it SC'ems to us. it could be used considerably more profitably in the acquainting of the rest of the new students with the Blacks and their situation at Notre Dame. This would require considerable preparation and effort both on the part of the Black faculty and the Blacl~ students. but it would seem that thC' C'ffort would be worth 
ll'hilC'. 
Second. students and their t'acultv advisors should be made nwrc• aware of those courses a1·ailable in the Black Experience ll'hich satisfy College requirC'ments. At the time that students are preregistering, many departments make available to the ,·ariotls advisors course

I 
descriptions for their courses. The 

r I ~ distribution of a unified list of cl!'!ailed course descriptions for
t 
c·ourses in Black Studies to the adl'i.~ors at each preregistration 1\'ould perhaps be effective in mailing both advisors and advisees more aware of the high quality .~olid acadC'mic courses available

I 
in this area.

I 
Finally. we urge the Black 

~ 
students and faculty on campus not 

I " to form a community solely to thc>mselves. but to communicate their experience to the rest of the Notre Dame community as in­dil'iduals. For we strongly believe that it will be through individual encounter between other members of the community and Blacks who are interested both in com­municating their Black experience to others and in learning to un­derstand the experience of the non­black community that the goals so clearly enunciated bythe Black students at the SLC open meeting will be achieved. 
<'hange in student government 
structure. 
Dziedzic offered his comments: 

"This whole affair is a good reflection on student government. t\s far as I see the situation, structure runs about third in im­portance behind the quality of people trying to do something in student government and the desire b~· the student body for something to be done. 
"Unless you have student leaders with the proper dynamism and motivation. and unless you have a student body that is receptive to what the student leaders are proposing. then the question of structure is unimportant." 

Braye also spoke out against the Commissioners. He thought that the election committee should be free from any political influence or authority. 
"I think that the new constitution should contain a clause that would make the election committee r£>sponsible only to the judicial board." he said. "It is not a good idea for the election committee to be responsible to a political body 
members seemed to agree that the percentage of votes gained by theorganizing elementary and 
Mary Tomkins.. president of the 
two leading candidates comparedsecondary school faculties, but are 
MSUY Faculty Associates, 
to the total votes cast indicatednewcomers to the college scene. 
r£>plied: "You've seen the 
that the students didn't want aArnold prefers the AFT affiliate salary list, haven't you?''
because ''it adheres to the prin­

She plans to start a card-signing
ciples of local autonomy." If it 

campaign to judge the faculty
wins there will be a local charter, 

mood on the issue. To get an 
CLASSIFIED ADS
and the chapter will be allowed to 

el£>ction sanctioned by the NLRB,
determine its own bargaining 

it is necessary to have signatures
demands instead of following the 

from :lo percent of the faculty,
dictates of the national office, requesting the election.
according to Arnold. 

RIDES WANTED
Last October, the Faculty
In addition to the NEA's national 

Associates and the AAUP were 
Wanted: a ride to Birmingham or
character, Arnold opposes it for its 

soundly beaten by the "no agent" 
Detroit. Can leave Friday after
past. 

noon. Please call 5185 or 5719.
option. One year must pass, ac­
"Any affiliate of the NEA to 
Thanks.

cording to law, before another
r£>present teachers at private 
l'l£>ction may be held. 

Desperately need a ride to Long
schools should be somewhat 

Lest£>r Manderscheid, acting 
Island or N.Y.C. on March 9th,
suspect. It has continually, 

anytime after 12:30 pm. Will
t\t\l!P president, said his
through the years, opposed aid to 

share money and driving. Call
organization would concentrate on 
Brian 8904.
private education," he said. 

traditional association principles
While Arnold campaigns for the 

Need ride to PA on 1-80. Call 4137
of academic freedom and shared
AFT and King's College is first 
Seth.

authority. He did not rule out
£>ncounter with electing a 

coll£>clive bargaining. however. 
Ride needed to Boston. Dave 288­
bargaining agent, a group of 

"Tiw faculty have decided that 
3353.
faculty nearly 700 miles away are 

they want us io lead the way, and
quietly grooming for another 

Ride needed to Detroit (Grosse
\\'hen it becomes clear that 
Pointe) or East on Ohio Turnpike
showdown with the "no agent" 

eoll£>ctive bargainging is in the 
to Exit 5 (Toledo). Can leave
When asked if her organization 

hest interests of the University 
Thursday night. Will share 
was £>xpecting another election, ­driving and $$s. Please call Pete at 8253. 
\\'£>'11 he available." he stated. 
1 I'm desperate! Need ride to St. 
Louis March 8 or 9. Will pay$$. 
Call Gary 1774.




Hoosier Hysteria 
Desperately need ride to Slam­lord Connecticut or vicinity for Spring Break. Please call Dave 283 1441.
a hilarious satire on 
Need ride to Boston. Can leave 
March 8 or 9. Call Mike 1869.

Indiana High School Basketball 
Girls need ride to Florida March 9. Call 4006 or 4047. 
Need ride to Cleveland can leave nnytime Ti1ursday, March B. Call

Tonight on 
Greg 1336. 

Need ride to Lauderdale, Hollywood or Miami. (for spring

WSND AM 640 
break). $$. Ken 3679. 

Two quys desperately need ride to
at 11 :OOpm 
Miami onMar. 7' call Pete 8810. Will share driving and expenses. Please qive us a break! 
NPed ride to New York City. Must leave this Thursday. JOE 8989.

An Tostal '73 
"'ide Wanted: to Little Rock, Ark 
or anywhere within a 200 mi radius. Can leave Thurs pm. Will share expenses. Call 3444.


MEETING: 
N<'ed ride lor 1 to Stamford, Conn. on March B or 9. Call 8745.
For all interested in running events, 
Need ride to N Y .c. or DC Will
weekend of April 26-28 
leave anytime. Desperate. 
D1•sperate. 8950. 

DPstination Philadelphia. Will tnke rides to Washington, New
Wednesday, March 7 
J••rsey. New York or anywhere in Pennsylvania. Share expenses & driving. Call 8731.

7:00pm 
Wnnted: riders to Ann Arbor for 
Spring Break. Cathy 5194.

Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Rider needed Florida, call 6732. 

or call 7401 
Help! ride needed to Wash. D.C. sprinq break. Liz 4608. 
NOTICES


Annual IUSB International 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM MUNITY, CALL 7789 W Th, 8 10 
pm.


Folklife Festival 
Northside Hall Indiana University at So. Bend 1825 N.Side Blvd. So. Bend March 16-17-18 
Folk Music Concerts Adults $2.00 Stud. $1.00 l<'ri .. M. 16 8:15pm-Sat. M. 17 8:15pm 
Free Folkmusic and Dance Workshop Sat. & Sun. Guitar-Banjo-Dulcimer-Am. & Europ. Folk Dance 
l<'ree Craft Fair-Sat. & Sun. 1 :oo-5:00 pm 
fo'ree Childrens' Concert Sun. 2:00 om 
Experienced typists Theses, term papers, essays etc. Marqaret Gloster 289·6581. 
Need money for Spring Break? Borrow $20 to $150 from Morrissey Loan Fund. 1\,\onday Friday 11:1512:15. Basement of LaFortune. 
Hot line crisis phone. Have a problem you'd like to discuss
1:00 pm 
anonymously (drugs, bad trip, family relations, suicide, con­traception. pregnancy, abortion. etc)? Call this number 282-2323. 
Before you buy a diamond learn 
all the facts. It may save you a 
<1reat deal. Call James 3118. 
MC'n! Women! Jobs on hips. No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide Travel. Perfect sutnrner job or career. Send $2.00 lor information. SEAFAX. Dept. F 7, P.0. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362. 
PITT CLUB BUS There will be a short meeting in Room C-1 LaFortune (first floor Am­phitheater). Tuesday, March 6 at 
8:00 to look into the possibility of chartering another bus for spring break. All those who need a ride MUSTattend. Due to the short time period, payment must be made that night. 
Modern Rooms and cottages. Many trees and flowers. Michigan Lake. private beach, fishing and swimming boats. LENGVIN, Guest House-Motel, 
M.P. Lengvinas, owner. Phones: Area 616 4690513 Union Pier Lakeside Union Pier, Michigan. STUDENTS WELCOME!! 
Ferrante & Teicher in concert at Morris Civic. this Saturday March 11 at 8:00 pm. 
INTERHALL HOCKEY: TONIGHT IS THE LAST GRACE TOWER GORILLAS GAME VS. THE PANGBORN PIRATES AT 
11:30 AT THE ACC, FAMS IN­VITED! 
CALIFORNIA CLUB SUMMER CHARTER FLIGHT $68.30 NON­STOP SOUTH BEND TO LAX. LEAVE 1 pm MAY 16. SIGNIJPS 
FIRST THREE DAYS AF"I ER SPRING BREAK ONLY. BADIN TRAVEL AGENCY 1-3 pm MARCH 19, 10, 21. 
Will do typing; Themes, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-6909. 
FOR SALE 
1966 vw Beetle. sunroof, good 11\l'chanical and appearance. $575. Call 284-4063 or 272-5257. 
1971 Honda CB 350, green, low •nileaqe. Lloyd Chem 146, 7733. 
For Sale Acoustic brand am­plifier. one piece. best offer. Call 234 4547 alter 7:00 pm. 
1\ KC Labrador pup. Reasonable ·price lor student. 283-6556,9-5 pm. 
1971 Dodge Dart V B 318 2 dr White. $1650. 
WANTED 
Wanted Good floor seats lor Ekach Boys. Call Chuck 8540. 
Will do your typing, professional iob. Please phone 259-6538. 
Typinq Experienced in disser­tations. essays. term papers. 1\rlene Spitz 232 9061. 
Raby sitter wanted to live in, room board and small salary. 2 small boys at Riverside Drive. 
Phone 234 9357. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost 72 ND rinq initials WHV. LaFortune basement. Reward 8515. 
Lost· tour keys on a small silver band with black leather camero t11C'dalian attached. Call Steve, 1059. 
PERSONAL 
M.M. I repent. marry me. 
J.J.J. 
FOR RENT 
Available lor September, two, three. lour and six bedroom homes. Call Mr. Hambarger 234­9364. 

----~---.-~-----~----­
Tuesday, March 6, 1973 the observer ­
7 


2 
BUDWEISER CAN HUG ••. 
most empty Bude cans which 
contestant hugs next to his person. Cans can't touch ground or any other kind of support. Record: 38. 


ANNOUNCES 
1 
BUDWEISER 
CRUNCH .• , 
empty Bud with one of 15 seconds. You get 
credit for aluminum cons. Current record is 5 (the sixth can turned out to be full). 

3
8UDWEISER CAN TOTE •• , most empty Bud cans balanced atop one another and toted without mishap for 25 feet. Record to beat 



BUDWEISER® 
5 KINDS OF HORSEPLAY IN WHICH YOU CAN BEA WORLD CHAMPION 
YOU CAN EARN 
·--~~ 
··~'? '"''\~. 
4 
BUDWEISER CAN TOSS ••• most consecutive completed tosses between two or more people, each 20 feet apart. Record is 7 (hard to 
THIS SWELL 7"x 6" PATCH! Sadbuttme: There'sabigshortage of champions in the world. To prove it, count how many you personally know. See? ... To ease this shortage, Budweiser is sanctioning five foolish events in which bonafide World Championships can be earned. They are described above ... The swell Budweiser World Champion Patch is your prize ... These may not be the ultimate sporting activities on campus. But they are the only ones in which we'll recognize record-breaking performances ... Sure, it's easy to get a patch by claiming a fictitious record. But then you wouldn't be able to insc1ihe your specialty beneath the words "World Champion." (Or would you?) ... Where do you get all the empty Budweiser cans you'll need 
to win a World Championship? Really, now! 
5 
BUDWEISER CAN PITCH-IN •.• most 
consecutive successful lobs of empty Bud cans into 
regular trash can from distance of 10'. Record is 72 (orly hod three cases to start with). This event gels rid of the empties from all the others. 

(Maybe you've detected that this is not an official, rigid-rules "contest." But it is a lot of fun, even if you can't break the records. You can, though, can't you?)
.....""'f~~c.\,;~ 
TO GET YOUR BUDWEISER WORLD CHAMPION PATCH (EVEN IF YOU DON'T SET A RECORD), JUST WRITE YOUR NAME, ADDRESS AND WHAT YOU DID ON A POSTCARD. SEND 
NO PROOF Of PURCHASE REQUIRED. OffER VOID WHERE PROHIBITED SY lAW. AllOW FOUR WEEKS FOR DELIVERY. 
IT TO

OFFER EXPIRES DECEMBER 31, 1973. ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST LOUIS 
• 

-
8 

former ice and gridiron great, Jim
b Jim Donaldson 

Crowley. Neither player gave
Sports Editor 

much thought to the records, There were two record-breaking however. 
performances last night in the As Bumbacco said, "It's nice, opening round of the WCHA but it won't mean anything if we playoffs at the ACC but, as far as don't take it all." 
the Irish players involved were Notre Dame's chances of takingconcerned, they weren~t im­at least its first series received a portant. big boost as a result of last night'sWhat was important was Notre five-goal margin of victory.
Dame's 5-0 victory over North "It's good to have a five-goalDakota in the first game of their bulge," Irish coach "Lefty" Smith two-game. total-goal series, which said, "but there's still a long way
overshadowed Eddie Bumbacco's to go." new WCHA scoring mark and It didn't take the Irish long to getMark Kronholm's Irish record for going. Just 2:38 after the opening 
career shutouts. faceoff, Ray DeLorenzi took a pass
The convincing victory by the from Paul Regan, streaked in on Irish means that North Dakota will Tim Delmore and rifled a 35-foot have to win tonight's rematch by slap shot by the stunned Sioux six goals if it's to eliminate Notre goalie.Dame from further playoff North Dakota had a chance to tie competition. the score a couple of minutes later 
Bumbacco had three points on a when Steve Curry was sent to the goal and two assists to boost his penalty box for holding but the season total to 87, surpassing the Sioux never threatened seriously.previous WCHA high of 85, set by Both clubs missed opportunitiesDenver's Jerry Walker in the 1960-in the middle of the period.61 season. Kronholm 's 23-save Delmore stopped Ian Williams,goaltending gave the steady junior who had broken in after a passhis third career shutout, giving from Bumbacco, and the Irish got him sole possession of the Notre a break when a hard 15-footer byDame mark he had shared with Tony Palmiscno caromed off both 

Back-checking 
Most Notre Dame fans regarded the night of Friday, November 3rd, 1972, as the prelude to another gridiron victory. Many an Irishman was !'xpected to frequent Philadelphia's Veterans Stadium the next day to watch Ara Parseghian'sboys.tackle Navy and chalk up.triumph number six. Yet many students, myself included, had their eyes on a different kind of game to be played in western Ohio. ' 
Coach Lefty Smith's hockey team was ready to begin its fifth season of collegiate hockey and second in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association and hopes were high for an outstandin~ season. Conference play was not be begin for a week yet, so the Irish were set to start the year with a pair of games against the Falcons of Bowling Green University. 
The opening game had special meaning for me, since I waslcaptaining a WSNO broadcast crew that would relay the night's activities back to the Notre Dame-South Bend community. My last such excursion had been rather disappointing, as a trip to Denver the season before resulted in watching the Irish throttled by the league champions in a two-game, total goals playoff series. Hopefully, the opener at BG would send home better !'!'SUitS. 
The Falcons, however, were hardly to be considered pushovers. During the 1970-71 season. the two squads had also met twice, and Bowling Green emerged with a pair of victories. I had visited the BG Ice Arena that year, and could vividly recall 3,500 frantic Falcon fans watching Jack Vivian's club skate to a 5-1 decision. This year, the series meant even more to Bowling Green. with a veteran club which wanted badly to whip Notre Dame and prove themselves worthy of an NCAA chance. 
Experts had often commented on the returning strength of the Irish squad and how "this would be the year" that Smith's skaters would finally begin to go places. The first season in the WCHA ended with Notre Dame barely squeezing into the playoffs, then receiving a lesson in tournament hockey from experienced Denver. You had to start won­dering if that "s£>ason" was ever going to come. 
(;oalie Dick Tomasoni and wingers Jim Cordes and John Campbell \H'I'<' the only regulars gone when the Irish opened the season at BG. A capacity crowd of 3,527 turned out, and it seemed like every last one was dwering the Falcons' efforts. 
I did the first period play-by-play, and sadly informed listeners of four Irish penalties in the first seven minutes. Those power-play op­portuniti£>s h!'lped Bowling Green to a 3-0 advantage before Ian Williams scor('d at !1:50 of the opening session. But the Falcons' Roger Archer and :'llikl• Bartley each added another goal, and by the end of the first twenty minutes. BG had thrown 19 shots at Chris Cathcart, good for a 5-1 edge. 
Things didn't get bet.ter in the middle period as three more Falcon tallies negated Williams' second score to push the lead to 8-2. Notre llame's first line of Williams, Paul Regan, and Eddie Bumbacco helped tlw Irish save face by scoring a goal apiece in the third stanza, but the dPl'ision had long been decided. Bowling Green romped, 9-5, and again tlw doubts arose. 
Fifteen lettermen were members of this year's club, yet things still looked bad. The same players, some of whom had been skating together 
.. 
for four years, were still making high school mistakes. Sure, John Noble ,,·asn't skating in the opening contest, and you always miss a scorer like that. but even so. was this going to be another disappointing year? 
The ride back to Notre Dame raised questions like these, and I had to wonder about the answers. Very few conference squads had the all­around returnees that the Irish had, yet opening night play once more had indica lions of a season-long fight just to make the playoffs. 
Tlw sad part of the story ends abruptly. The same Falcons who had skated circles around Smith's squad only two nights before were rudely handed a 9-3 shellacking at the ACC the following Sunday. Despite double road losses to Wisconsin and Denver before Christmas vacation, the Irish ''Pre. indeed. beginning to show signs of class and power. 
<'onference opponents continued to fall, and when league-leading !\lichigan State visited the Convo January 26th, Notre Dame pummeled tlw Spartans for 21 goals and hockey fans started talking title. The sch!'dule never eased up, but neither did Smith's skaters. 
The regular season is now history, and the shocking happenings at the Bowling Green Ice Arena are only memories. On November 3rd, 1972, the \\THA playoffs looked like a distant dream for coach Lefty Smith and the Irish. On March 6, 1973, Bowling Green is just a city in Ohio, and Boston is much. much closer. 

Eddie Bumbacco angles in on Dakota's Tim Delmore. 
posts and back into play. Dakota goal. Delmore stopped involved, a club's bound to get Notre Dame increased its lead to both but on the second one, which tired." 2-0 at 13:59 on the combined efforts came while the Irish had too many 
"We played very good defensiveof the WCHA's top two scorers, men on the ice, Williams was hockey," Smith continued, "but IBumbacco and Ian Williams. trailing the play and easily flipped don't think either club ·played aBumbacco set up his linemate's the puck over the prone Delmore real sharp game. I think thatgoal with a pass from behind the for Notre Dame's fourth goal at Tuesday's game will be better.
net and Williams deftly 7:24. 
Even though it'll be the fourthbackhanded the puck into the Bumbacco upped the count to 5-0 game in five days, the teams will upper right corner of the net. two minutes later, poking in the have two days of regular rest."
Palmiscno was whistled off for rebound of a Williams shot. Noble holding just 22 seconds later but started the scoring play, winning a North Dakota coach Rube Bjork­the Irish weren't able to pad their faceoff to the right of Delmore and man concurred with Smith, advantage while on the power sliding the puck to Williams, who remarking, "Our kids were tired at play, nor during the remainder of let go a wrist shot. Delmore the end. We had some good op­the period. couldn't control the rebound and portunities in the first period and, 
But, on their next power play, 42 Bumbacco alertly fired it in. if we had gotten one or two goals, seconds into the second period, the Thereafter, the Irish seemed things might have been different. Irish were opportunists. Nineteen content to protect their lead. and, 
"There are six periods in thisseconds after Alan Hangslaben by playing sound defensive game," Bjorkman added.
had been put in the box for holding, hockey, kept the Sioux at bay. Curry drilled a slap shot from the Neither team looked its best in a The final three begin at 7:30 right point into the top right cor-lackluster final period. tonight. And, if the Irish win (or ner. "I think that both clubs were lose by less than six goals), they'll 
Penalties to Bill Nyrop at 4:12 tired as a result of playing three set a record that everyone cares and John Noble at 5:41 gave North games in four days," Smith said. about--the first Notre Dame team Dakota its last chance to keep "With all the travel and late hours to win a playoff series. 
things close. Instead, the Irish scored a shorthanded goal that wasn't. 

ND tankmen finish 
Notre Dame had five men on the ice for approximately 20 seconds but the officials didn't notice. They spend most of their time watching 
with record triumph
Bumbacco, who blocked two shots in the Irish end and turned both 
record time (17:48.9) and equaledinto breakaways on the North by Pete McHugh his mark in the 500 yard freestyle l5:01.2l. He was also a member of.
Sailors host, win ·What can you say about a 
both record-breaking relay teams:
sophomore who, in one meet, set 
400 yard medley t·elay (Bob
three varsity, meet, and poolfrosh regatta records while anchoring another Thompson, Jim Fischer, Sherk, 
Gene Krathaus), 3:46.3 clocking
relay record'~ What can you say
The Notre Dame Sailing Team. and 400 yard freestyle relay
about a team which, in the same 
defeated eight other schools to lKrathaus, Sherk, Jim Meagher,
meet. set thirteen varsity, eight
capture first place in its own Kane>. 3:16.9.
pool, and nine ·meet marks while 
Freshman Icebreaker Regatta this With Kane and Sherk sweeping
posting thirty-five improved
past weekend on St. Joe Lake. freestyle honors. Bob Thompson
times? What can you say? Well, if
Team depth and consistent sailing got into the act by setting two more 
~·ou are the coach of that so­
combined with a clutch finish to records in the 200 vard backstroke
phomore and that team, you could
give the ND novice and freshman l2:06.8l and 100 yard backstroke
say anything you wanted, but 
team a narrow one-point victory l5R.n. Jim Fischer followed suit
probably something simple like 
over Michigan State's runner-up by posting varsity records in the
"they did a tremendous job."
Spartans. 200 vard breaststroke (2:20.7) and
The sophomore is Jim Kane. The 
The Irish took advantage of light 100 'vard breaststroke (1:03.2). In
team is Notre Dame. The coach is
and variable winds on Saturday, the 'zoo vard event. he cut a full
Ot•nnis Stark. And in possibly the
and finished the day's sailing in a seven seconds off his previous best 
best showing by Irish tankmen
virtual tie for first place with MSU time. 
ever. that Notre Dame team
and Ohio State. On Sunday mor­.Junior gd Graham took the 400
completely outscored, outmanned, 
ning, with the winds increasing out yard individual medley with a
and generally outclassed a field of
of the southeast, ND had to hold 4::!7.1 clocking, another varsity
seven teams towin the sixth an­
their position points to less than record. In the 200 yard medley he
nual .Motor City Invitational last
five in order to beat MSU. Com­placed second. Another junior, Ed
WC'ekend in Detroit.

modore AI Constants met the Strack. finished second in the 200 <"hallenge by taking a second Kane. who in two years has yard butterfly. place, and Skip Reynolds held on to made a shambles of the Notre The Irish divers could only 
third place to earn the one-point Dame record books, was at his manage two fifth place finishes by victory. season's best in the team's final Mark Foster and Dan Mikielski in Also skippering for Notre Dame performance this year. Along with the one meter and three meter were Rob Gaw, Rob Albergo, and his four victories, he fell just .3 of a !'vents respectively. Fidele Galey. second short of qualifying for the With the domination in freestyle,Crewing for Notre Dame were NCAA regional in the 100 yard relay. and intermediate com­Dennis Mcintire, Chris Gallagher, freestyle. me had already swam petition. the Irish were never 
Jeff Coe, Bill Reed, and Debbie liOO yards in competition before his challenged. In all, Notre Dame Lvnch. 100 yard speciality> He can still finished 78 points ahead of nearest ·The final standings: 1) Notre qualify.liowever, with a :47.4 time opponent Northern Michigan, with 
Dame 2> Michigan State 3) Ohio in this week's intrasquad meet. His host Wayne State 109 pointsState 4l Iowa 5) Northwestern 6) record performances: 50 yard lwhind. 
Purdue 7) Indiana 8) Oshkosh 9) freestyle l22.0), 100 yard freestyle For seven Irish swimmers the Wabash. <47.7!, and 200 yard freestyle meet held particular significance.On March 17, Notre Dame and <I :-17.2). as seniors John Balthrop, Captain 
Michigan State will be the two In the longer freestyle events, G!'orge Block. Gene Krathaus. Bill Midwest representatives at the senior John Sherk was equally McEvoy, Chris Mecca. John New York Maritime intersectional devastating. Sherk captured the Sherk. and Mark Wilcox closed regatta. 
1650 yard freestyle in varsity their varsity careers. 
.. 








