On The Inside 
Editorial endorsing Clarke's ideas......page 4 
Dorr's N.L. ptcks.....page 8 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 103 
Thursday, March 29, 1973 


Constitutional struggle 
Battle lines drawn up 
by Tom Mirabito Staff Reporter 
Thl' contending parties in the most recent student government debacle fumed and drew battl£> lines today in the wake of Jim Clarke's surpris£> presentation of an alternate constitution at last night's Hall Presidents Council meeting. 
Form£>r student government treasurer Mike Marget led the opposition to Clarke's proposal, terming it "a plagiarized document," and arguing that "Clarke's constitution is not a choice. contrary to what the editorial said in todav's Observer." 
llarke's plan creates an elected executive' coordinator who administers the service func­tions of the student association. The Student Association Chairman is elected by and from the IIPC. and is the ultimate leader of the organization. Marget objects to this on the grounds that the elected executive coordinator may develop a conflict with the HPC chairman. 
"A candidate who is elected executive coor­dinator might not share the same philosophy that the appointed chairman holds," contended Marget. "and this would cause problems that are obvious." · 
Marget added that a common· problem in student governments today is the conflict bet­Wl.'en popularly elected presidents, and their respective parliamentary bodies. 
Jim Clarke countered, defending his proposal with the argument that the hall presidents keep up with the problems of the students best. Thus, he said. they should be allowed to come together and solve mutual problems of the halls. 
"In the other constitution this is not the case lwcause the President is charged with the dl.'ci~:ion making and only has to consult the foruM but doesn't have to listen to their opinion in making his final ~lecision. "said Clarke. 
Clarke felt that the SBP and SBVP only rl.'presented the students two weeks out of the year and those two weeks are during the student body elections. "They are not responsible to any students. They don't represent the students," he charged. 
Clarke outlined the basic principles of his alternative costitution. It consistsof a division of roles between two individuals, one person in charge of policy making decisions and the other pl'rson concerned with student services. 
Clarke argued. ''We feel the policy decision making process should be put into the hands of th£' forum. and each executive coordinator would run on the platform of a program of student servicl's and leave it up to the students to decide hl.'twel'n the candidates." · 
lie added that the executive coordinator could 
lw forcl.'d into a recall vote if it was felt that he 
was not trying to live up to his promises. 
Asked whv he had decided to submit an altl.'rnate proposal. Clarke revealed, "We went into the compromise meetings with good faith hoping the present administration would too." 
The only thing accomplished in the first mel.'ting. he said. was that both he and H-man agrl.'l.'d not to run for SBP, and that both he and Etienne would write up constitutions over spring break. 
Clarke said. "We both generally had a similar svstem of checks and balances. Mike Marget opposl.'d the system of checks and balances and askl.'d us to waitoneday for the HPC meeting to presl.'nt our proposals before them." 
"AI th£' ml.'eting." he continued, "we discussed our different forms of checks and balances to mak£' sure that the president and the forum were on an equal basis." 
"Around this time." said Clarke, "I saw that 
hoth sidl.'s of the commission had reached a 


Jim Clarke: "policy decision-making process should be'IJ'l.,t into the forum." 
stalemate and if our side walked out there would be no constitution and the present situation would be even more confused." 
Clarke stated that he had never endorsed the committee's constitution and his first idea had been to try and get the HPC to change parts of it. 
"Bftt from the period the committee presented the constitution to the hall presidents and when the HPC met last, I came to realize that the constitution that had come out of the committee was completely against the prin­ciples I had campaigned for in the recent elec­tion." he declared. 
Clarke said that it was not until late Monday afternoon that he decided to write his alternate' proposal based on his own principles. 
"With the fact that I had a big test to study for I found that I had little time to type it up, let alone see other people about it." 
"I didn't get copies of the constitutuion until late tuesday afternoon and the meeting was at 6 
p.m. so I had to present it at the meeting when I would have rather presented it to each hall president individually," Clarke said. 



Marget discussed the merits of the constitution which had been drawn up by the five-man committee consisting of Dennis Etienne, Chris· Singleton, Fred Baranowski, Mike Marget, and Jim Clarke. 
"It realizes both problems of running the student government office and the day-to-day problems of the hall presidents," Marget said. He felt that too many people for too long had operated under the delusion that there is any power in student government. 

Marget believed that the forum should not oe set-up as a legislature because there is nothing for it to do except legislate the budget. 
''What we felt necessary was to set-up an advisory body to inform the SBP and the university administration of student opinion. Student leaders need that constant imput," Marget noted. 
He added that the student members of the 
Academic Council were included to insure that 
they would benefit from that same input. 

Student Body vice-president Etienne con­
curred with everything Marget said and added, 
"The Student Association President's powers 
will be no different than they always have been 
which is generally nil. His duties will be to 
represent and lobby for the students with the 
administration and under the advice of the 
forum." 

Asked what they thought would be the chances 
of their constitution being approved by the HPC, 
both Marget and Etienne said that it will depend 
on everyone understanding the reality of the day­
to-day working of student government. 

H-man added that he felt it would boil down to 
whether or not the hall councils want their hall 
president to do the job they were elected for or be 
senators. 

"Our constitution asked them to be the hall 
representatives, to come to the meetings with 
the opinions expressed by students within their 
halls. The other constitution would ask them to 
use their time in the forum meetings to busy 
themselves with menial tasks much like the old 
senate." Etienne said. 

Asked about the chances for the passage of his 
proposal. Clarke said an altered version of his 
constjtution would stand an excellent chance of 
getting passed. 

C'larke commented, "Because it was hastily 
drawn-up I would expect and appreciate con­
structive criticism. I would be a fool in thinking 
it would pass as it now stands." 

Other reactions around campus were mixed. 
Former Student Government Academic Com­
missioner and current member of the Academic 
Council Fred Giuffrida took issue with the 
K£>rst£>n Administration's document, specifically 
the clause that places student Academic Council 
nwmb£>rs on the Forum. 

"This clause will do the Forum very little 
good." Giuffrida contended, "and might do the 
Academic Council members even less. Never, in 
my four years of student government ex­
p£>rience. has the SBP or SBVP taken an interest 
in academics. The hall presidents have enough to 
do without worrying about that." 

(;iuffrida also took issue with the document as 
a who!£>. "The quaint American preference ofr a 
popularly £>lected leader is the cause of most of 
th£> student government's conflicts," he said. 
"Tlw president elected from the HPC has 
\'aluabl£> advantages that we should not pass 
up." 

Curr£>nt Student Government representative to 
th£> Academic Council Ed Ellis reiterated his 
pn•vious comment that placement of council 
nwmb£>rs on the Forum was "stupid." Beyond 
that. h£> stated. "I am not prepared to discuss 
Pit her constitution." 

Down memory lane... 
This is an artist's conception (from the Notre Dame archives) ol how LaFortune Student Center. formerly the Science Building looked when tt was brand new. In today's issue, archttecture students of the Renovation Commtttee submitted plans to renovate the 
•nstde of the building, including plans tor a pub. See story on page two. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

Erratum 

Yestl.'rday's article on the SAP Plections was printed by mistake. It was written before the alter­native constitution presented to the IIPC. Plans for anv future elec­tions will be contingent on the outcom£' of the current cons­titutional talks in the HPC. 
-IIIHIIII.IIIIII..UIIIIHIIIIIIIHHUIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Thursday, March 29, 1973
the observer 



warld 

briefs 
<(') 1!17:1 Nc>w York Times 
Wl•shington--Despite grumbling from Capitol Hill, Secretary of Defense Richardson\nsisted Wednesday that President Nixon has clear constitutional authority to continue bombing in Cambodia to clean up a "lingering corner of the war." The assertion came as several senators challenged the ~resident'sauthority to keep up the bombing once American troops are withdrawn from Vietnam. 
Saigon--As the first phase of the cease-fire comes to an end in Vietnam. the fighting is continuing, the peace-keeping machinery is ineffective and the propspect of real peace seems remote. But the end of the liO-day period is being marked by a major event--the complete withdrawal of being marked by a major event--the complete with­drawal of United States troops after eight years of American in­volvement. 
Washington--An official of the Central Intelligence Agency has testified that he had suggested ways the International Telephone and Tl'legraph Corporation could create enough economic instability in Chile to prevent the election of Salvador Allende Gossens in the 1970 presidential election. The official told a Senate panel that he had initiated the suggestions after the head of the company had contact with the C.I.A. 
Wouudc>d Knc>t>, S.D.--About 100 of the Indians barricaded in Wounded Knee, S.D., have offered to surrender, according to government spokesmen, who said a hard core of the di::.:;idents vowing to die. were keeping them in the village at gunpoint. Despit~ denials by Indian spokesmen at a meeting in nearby Rapid City, government sources said the two factions had an armed confrontation inside the village over the issue of surrender. 

an campus taday 
7:30 pm · lecture, "the indian literature in english;"p. lal ofcalcur-a, india; carrol hall, made leva 
8:00 pm · lecture; "he s range dea 1h of liberal educa ion;" dr. james billing;on of prince on univ.; moreau little theatre 8:00pm· lecture; "abor ion: medical and social aspec s;"dr. and ms. j.c. willke; plus a film nn abor ion; washington hall 
B: 15 pm · concert; saxophone-piano reci .a 1 fea uring dennis bamber of sou ;h bend and william cerney of he no.re dame facul;y; library auditorium 
9:00 pm · concert; no re dame jazz band combo-Iafortune student center 

LaFortune plans finalized 
by Greg Rowinski 
Starr Reporter 
A design for an Irish Pub is one of the plans submitted by the LaFortune Renovation Architects and approved by the LaFortune Renovation Committee last night. The planned changes will open up and clarify the building, according to the chairman of the architects, Senior Ken Knevel. 
The three architecture students who made the plans will now concentrate on minor changes. 
The finalized designs will be presented to the Committee and its administrative representative, Director of Student Activities, Robert Ackerman. With approval, the plans will go to Vice President for Student Affairs Philip Fac-· 
cenda.  From  this  office,  the  
designs  will  be  sent  to  a sub­ 
committee  of  the  Board  of  
Trustees.  

The final step in the process will be the submitting of the plans to the Board at its meeting in May. Hopefully, the Hoard f\vill approve them and either find a donor or allocate funds to , implement the project. 
Theproject is planned in phases. The first phase will include the ('onstructwn of an Irish Pub and reorganization of student service and publications offices. 
The Irish Pub wil resemble the pizzerias in South Bend, serving pizza, beer, and soft drinks, ac­cording to soph architect Ron Blitch. 
Tables and booths sufficient to seat 250 and 300 students will surround the pizza bar. The Pub will extend through the present Ha thskellar and displace the International Students lounge, which will be moved to the present card room. The other offices in the basement will remain while a kitchen will replace the off-eampus lounge. 

Blitch emphasized that the bar will be built even if the Indiana drinking age is not lowered, but that only those with proof of age will be served alcohol. 
The Student Union and student government offices will occupy second floor office space , with a lounge from the top of the main stairs to the offices. 
Publications offices will occupy the third floor and a lounge will connect the stairs and the rooms. 
Roxanne Jabbra, a sophomore architecture student and the third of the Renovation Architects, 
described  phase  two,  the  
remodelling of the Huddle.  This  
effort is labelled phase two  , she  

explained, because it is a major project and will require a great deal of time and effort. 
The re-design will enlarge the eating area and increase the ef­ficiency of the Huddle's service by making the food line a horseshoe with students serving themselves. 
The amphitheatre will house a co-op store carrying the miscellaneous now handiPd by the Huddle. The architec-ts hope that Student Government will prefer the co-op to the Badin basement store no planned.Work on the pub could start after the 1973 graduation, though next summer may be a more realistic target for most of the changes. Work in­volving the offices must be done during the summer to eliminate conflict with student government activities. 
The architects are a subgroup of the Renovation Committee. The Committee was created last year by students under the chair-
The Observer is published daily' clurinq the college semester except v.1C<ltions by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. M.1r·, 's College. Subscriptions m,,, IJe purchnsed tor $8 per '<'nwqer (S14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame lnd~,,n,l 46556. Second clas~ 110,t,lqe P<lid, Notre Dnme, Ind. 
~65.'i6. 

If You're Gonna Get It Cut , Get It Cut Well! 
The way your hair looks makes a difference to you. The three expert stylists at the Windjammer know this. They are willing to take the time to find out exactly what you want. That makes a difference. 
All Services By Appointment --Call Now 





Ohe Wim1jammer 
HAll STYLING fOI DISCIIMINATINO MfN & lOTS 
1637 Loncotn Wav W Closed Mondays 
manship of Jim McDermott. However, lack of architectural direction hamstrung the project. 
Committee member Knevel then approached Architecture Department Chairman Professor Ambrose Richardson to establish an office of consulting architects. Knevel, Blitch, and Zabbra established headquarters on the second floor of LaFortune and prepared the plans. They have proceeded, according to Knevel, with the philosophy of benefitting the entire student body by keeping the building as open and flexible as possible, with all changes coming in phases. 
SUMMER IN WISCONSIN 
One of America's outstanding 
private boys camps located in 
northern Wisconsin announces a 
limited number of openings on the 
stnff for the 1973 season. Dates 
,1re June 28-August 16. Com· 
pensntion includes salary, round 
trip trnnsportation, living 
qunrters, board, and laundry. 
This is an unusually attractive 
summer job. Consequently, cnly 
men of the highest character and 
integrity will be considered. For 
complete information, write D.C. 
Broadbridge, 2863 Shannon Court, 
Northbrook., Ill. 60062. 
VODKA 

POPOV
. $906 

Also Concord Mall in Elkhart Downtown open Mon. & Thurs. 'til9. Blackmond's open Fri 'til9. Others open ever nite 'til 9. · 
I

~~~-2_g_a_l_.________~-~-2_g_a_l_.----------~-~-10_9_8~

2 ~g~a_1_._____ 

I I
10% Diseount by the Case 

iHeg BeerTOWN &COUNTRY RIVERPARKI I* Best Beer LIQUOR LlQUQR 1 
Prices In Town T & c Shopping Center 2411 Mish. Ave. 
J 


!:~,~:!i~}QII(~,.J~~~~;.~g_m:_;~~~=~ -~-~~ 
' 
KARLOF 
ANTIQUE 
VODKA 
$899 

BOURB~N 
Thursday, March 29, 1973 the observer 

COLLEGIATE NOTES 
Understand all subjects, plays 
,1nd novels faster! · Thousands of topics available




Graves: jobs open lor minorities 
by James Rosini Starr Reporter 

Earl G. Graves, head of a New York publishing firm which prints Blaek Enterprise magazine, discussed "Minorities and Urban Area Careers in Business, Law and \ommunication Arts," in a lecture held yesterday in the Hayes-Healy 
Center at Notre Dame. 
Graves focused on the problems that minority students will have finding jobs in their future and explained the opportunities open to them. Specifically, he referred to the March issue of Black En­tt>rpris.-. which outlined the op­portunities open to blacks in large corporations in 1973. 
Graves then spoke about the "unlimited'' opportunities open to blacks in the communication arts field, with 15 black owned radio stations existing and many more starting in this country. 
In the field of Law and Politics, Graves spoke of J. Cooper, a graduate of Notre Dame, who is now 28 vears old and the mayor of a town of 50 thousand people. Cooper had worked with Graves as administrative assistants to the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy. 
Graves asserted, "There are many opportunities for young black lawyers who are good and black law firms are coming into existance throughout the country." 
Racial Prejudice 

Salvatore J. Bella, Professor and Chairman of the Notre Dame 
Department of Management, introduced Graves as, "not a black businessman, but a businessman who happens to be black.'; Graves, later in his lec­ture, referred to this as a belief that he also professed. 
Graves said, "There is a double standard in hiring blacks in large corporations." Graves explained, "Some companies might lower their standards to bring you on board, but after climbing those first three steps within the com­pany, it becomes increasingly harder to compete with your white counterpart for those higher positions." 
Graves added, "In some com­panies like General Electric, which is looking to hire black engineers, it will help you to be black but in others it will hurt." 
Graves was recentlv chosen to 

Ka1n1ner to describe Arizona Reservation 
by George Brown Staff Reporter 
Jerry Kammer, a 1971 Notre Dame graduate, will speak to seniors and undergraduates in­terested in teaching in the Gallup Diocese of northern New Mexico and northern Arizona at 7 p.m. 
tonight  in  117  O'Shaughnessey.  
Hall.  
Kammer,  now  teaching  on  the  

Navajo Reservation at St. Michaels, Arizona, stressed that a teacher's certificate is not necessary and work is on a volunteer basis. The diocese offers a salary of $150 a month as well as room. board, and hospitalization insurance. 
This is not a great deal, said Kammer, but he has been able to live comfortably on his volunteer salary, has met many fascinating people, and has seen a beautiful part of the country. 
"It has been the most interesting experience of my life." The diocese is seeking students 

to teach next year or in the future in English, Science, Mathematics, History, Business and Physical Education. 
"There is a need for male teachers in several elementary and high schools in the diocese. The schools are staffed largely by nuns,'' commented Kammer, "who feel that the presence of more male teachers would be of great benefit in guidance and counseling for the boys." 
New teachers are especially needed at Cathedral High in Gallup, New Mexico due to ex­pansion in enrollment, emphasized Kammer. 
The Gallup Diocese consists of 55,000 square miles inhabited by 280,000 people, 60,000 of whom are Catholic. These people include the Navajo and Jicarilla Apache tribes. There are also several Indian pueblos within the diocese including the Laguna, Yuni, and Acoma pueblos. In addition, there are many Spanish Americans and Anglos in the diocese. 
be one of the ten outstanding minority businessmen in the country. Graves had this to say about the nomination, "I thought that it was a disaster. I would like to receive that award in ten years as an outstanding businessman, not an outstanding black businessman." 
Graves then added, "We cannot 
forget for a second who we are, but we must see ourselves as professionals rather than minority professionals." 
Success in Business 

"To succeed in business it helps to be hungry," Graves stated as he 
explained  how  his opportunities  
arose  as  an  upcoming  
businessman.  

The army had taught Graves leadership and this helped him obtain his position with Kennedy. "After Kennedy was assassinated, and I had two kids that are hungry, I had to get out and do it for myself," said Graves. "It's not enough that you have the ambition 
Graves presently heads five corporations and is a member of the national board and executive committee of the Interracial Council for Business Opportunity. 1 
Graves was brought to campus by ' the Urban Studies Institute, the Black Studies Program, the College of Business and the Department of American Studies. i 
within 48 hours of mailing Complete with bibliography and footnotes Lowest Prices are GUARAN­TEED sEND $1.90 tor our !'arest ,iCSLriptive Mail-Order Catalogue· with Postage-Paid Order Forms too: 
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH 1 N. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 706 Phila. Pa. 19107 HOT-LINE (215) 563-3758 
Nominations for GSU 
President , Vice President and Secretary-Treasurer are now being accepted 
All interested Grads see Barry Wessels 1028 
N.S.H. for more information. 
Nominations close March 30th 
llllllllllllllniiiiiiiTIIIHIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllliUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHtURIIIIIUl

IArmy-Navy Discount I
to work 18 hours a day, but you need this other motivation-to be hungry!" 
Graves also said that another important quality of a successful 
;_=~=:_

buinessman is his large ego. Graves asserted, "If you can't be 
-

in business for yourself and believe in yourself-forget it!" 
During his college years at Morgan State College in Baltimore, while majoring in 
~--==_-=-= Economics, Graves ran a gar­dening business on the campus. Graves said, "I didn't know much ­about gardening but I was 'hungry' §enough to do it and I had the 'brass' 
3 

to do it." 


Mon. ~:~~:~:.~~~:~:8::~ 
-=
3
Tues., Wed., Fri., Sat. 9 am to 5:30pm i_=
Air Fo::;nSJua::~ss~~99 $3.99 _-===-~==
Rain Parkas and Suits 5.99 Foot Lockers 14.99 & 18.99 
-
§
ASSORTED TRUNKS & CAifA'P_ING EQUIP. 3 
fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllltlllllllltlllllllttti 

SENIORS 
Uncertain of your future ••• 
~ 
• 
• • • check out the 
Marist Brothers Lay Volunteer Program. 

Talk with recent N. D. grads now in the Program 
7:30pm LaFortune Ballroom Tonight 


Special Opportunities in: 
grammer school teaching 
& 


high school teaching 

Fun to use on paper, games school and home projects 


59~ value 
~~~49~ 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

Talkint;~ Did Saldiers


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Student 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief 
Executive Editor Executive Editor 

Government 
NEWS: 283-1715 Dan Thornton EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Joe Butler Ired rJiuffrida Busmess Manager BUSINESS: 283-7471 Advertising Manager 
\\'ilh lhP n•epnl rPsurn•ction of llw discussion concerning the "tlldl'nl goYernnwnt eonstitution. I fePI myst>lf obliged to address my 
pen one last I imP · and vpry hripfly -to the question of student 
Thursday, March 29, 1973 
)..!0\'l'l'llllH'Ill.
----------·
. 



Yes To Clarke 
The :.tagl' has been set for what could \\'l•II hl' thP most important meeting in the :-.IHH't history of the Hall President's ( 'ouneil tonight in Saint Ed's Chapel. The pla~·Ns have all been introduced, the l'.:1 nw plans announced. It now remains f(lr that body to decide whethel' or not the student body of Notre Dame will win, lose or draw in their attempt to achieve ef­fPctive student government. 
Tlwre have beC'n other political battles on this campus which have been clouded hy ideas which are too similar, fear of r:HliC':tl change, or just plain uncertainty as to what this student body needs in the way of splf-government. None of these C'onditions should exist this time around. Experience has taught us too many painful lessons. 
The inability of the six SLC representatives to receive any sub­stantial amount of feedback from the large constituencies by whom they were Plected, caused a large cloud of apathy to surround the present Board of Com­missioners. A check as to how many times they convened during the past year is evidC'nce enough of their inadequacy. 
Elections in recent years have been a confused collage of candidates some of whom wPre experts in the field of student policy, some of whom had new and in­tPresting ideas in the field of student services, and some of whom had no practical knowledge of the student ~overnment whatsoever. Obviously, policy and service are two distinct and t•xtrenwly important areas, and each one should be filled by experts. And students should not have to sacrifice good ad­
.. 
n inistration in either area simply hPeause the two areas have foolishly been ('OilSOiida ted. 
ThPse shortcomings of past and present student governments, along with the < onsistC'ntly serious support of hall uovernments by students should provide l'Veryone with the obvious conviction that --tudent government at Notre Dame must be based on the representatives of those ha lis. 
The HPC has proven itself to be the most representative body of students .on 
this campus. One proposed constitution 
affords them the legislativepowNtomake 
that representation more than just 
meaninglesss advice. That proposal is 
Jim Clarke's. 

One constitution divides the two 
distinct areas of student government into 
two seperate branches. The area of 
policy is headed by the Student 
Association Chairman, and the area of 
service is headed by the Executive 
Coordinator. That proposal belongs to 
Clarke. 

Once and for all, Clarke's constitution 
:lllows for students to elect, at-large, the 
n an who can come up with the most 
unique and appealing ideas relating to 
student services, ideas that are easily 
expressed and understood during the 
course of a campaign week. 
But no longer will students have to :1 ttem pt to judge confusing and often \·ague policy proposals, for the Chairman of the Student Association will be chosen hy and from the Student Association Forum. And students will have had a direct input into that choice by electing their respective hall presidents and off­cam pus representatives, people whom they can responsibly judge because of their immediate contact with those C'Ondida tes. 
It is true that the HPCwill be becoming legisIa tive for the first time in their history if Clarke's proposal is ratified by the ~1all eouncils, but also for the first time tn their history, they will have more than simply an advisory role, one that is comfortably unbinding, but shamefully ineffective. Student government needs a l'roup with the power and the creative insights enabling them to enact that good advice. The HPC could answer those 1weds. 
Hopefully, tonight all of the inadequacies of student government as we know it at Notre Dame will be ex­trem ely vivid in the minds of the hall presidents. If they are, they will have no :II terna ti \'C' Lm t to endorse the con­stitutional proposal of Jim Clarke. 
The Editorial Board 
~------------~~ 
HE!3' HCCl ~·~~-
PON'r 86 t.-ONf?J/ 
~U~l~ 

.JUST SHOW!/'/' ' e-u~N 1 f'Hc BtJ5 
rHE Ht55U5 /...cAVc5 F'OR. 
rH&' P£t..-l.ll/ I H£'11 GJ_fl.. 
~ #{)[:;IN ~N · 
vseo ro BE ME, roo 1 y. ­
" I MINVr£5' 
51117/CNEO r WA-S
daanesbury 
\ !-ICR5.1
" 

IJarry trudeau 
the observer 

N~tthl Eclitor :.r• "5un',t11nr>" E~posilo H<·lp t• '" {\o~rn·tt. Jc·rr, Lutkus, Joe AtJcll, 
, r. 11.1qht r 
o,-.y Edttor r. n Dr"P' P!(tun•rll1Hl J1 r•.llr• Pt llrp.._, 
Compuqr,-.phac P· rl Or~rtH·In 
Spo< h N 1qhl E d1lor v.. Dorr N1qht Controller H· : ""' H,lllr· fypt\1'-. !·.r: Nt·urn•,c.., Mr~r, Rorlll'l", John o~r ·,·. "r· h.'r.pl·r D•·nnrl, Anc1~f(1c,oft 

l<'irsl. sludPnl govPrnrnPnt does have a useful function to perform. llm\'1'\'1'1". sludPnls should not t>ntertain high <'XPl'Cialions, for it has no inslilulional powPr. Its functions arp primarily three: (]).services­'' hieh basieally comprise tht> opPrations of Student Union, whose "lruclun• is not at qut>stion ht>re: <2l education -of faculty and ad­Ill inisl ralors. who often display a remarkablt> ignoran.;·e in matters .of studPnl llfl': !:ll lobbying -to influence the real policymakers to pass dml'll dPcisions favorablt> to student<;. 
.b 111ost of ~·ou havp long rt>cognized. there is no real power here. ~ludt·nl govC'rnnwnt is no govt>rnment. Thus. there is no need for the s<~lTnsancl checks and balances. Checks to prt>vent the abuse of \IliaI'' 
This fallacious reasoning has been the cause of the careful distinc­1ion lwtwl'Pn executive and legislative omnipresent in our student govPrnrnPnt. The result, in my four years of experience, has been a constant bickering between the SBP and his people, and the Senate, Board of Commissioners, etc. This should be no surprise. This is Pxactly what the system is designed to do. In the meantime, it has also divided the student voice and further weakened student government. 
The only speakable argument presented against this analysis is that student government does have one power, the power of the budget. However, the budget has always been the unchecked pC'rogative of the legislature, and, therefore, this objection holds no water. 
Rt>fore the HPC there presently stand two proposals. That which should bC' adopted is that which would lead to the most efficient, unhampC'rC'd fulfillmPnt of student government's function and which draws on I he most representative base. Let us look at the alternatives. 
First. llwn' is I<:xhibit A, tht> proposal of the Kersten Company. It retains tlw I'Xecutive-IC'gislative division, but clearly subordinates the lt>gislalurC'. llnder such a system, the effective means of student 
government would. as historically indicated, fall to the SBP <whatever nonwndature you adopt land his appointed clique of cohorts. 
The Kl•rstC'n Klique originally ran in opposition to cliques. In one short and unproductive year. it has decided to take 'oligarchy' seriously. 11s suggestion further suits this end by being vague and unstructured. and. thus. opt>n to more of the manipulations we have <iln·ady sC'enlhis year under a more structured constitution. jFinallv, if lhl' III'C Pndorses 'A'. it will bt> creating a modified senate am.i ensuring its own ultimate demise. 
Exhibit B. the Jim Clarke Crusade. posits a radical alternative to I hi' first suggPstion. It rids itself of the divisive executive-legislative dislinl'lion and placPs thP Pl'fective means of student government at llw disposal of tlw most rC'presentative student body on campus. Plan 1\ fulfills llw cri!Pria of unity <and thus pfficiency) and representation. ,,.hl're <·A· only offprs a dubious efficiency. The choict> is clear in my mind for 'B'. 
Tlwrl' :~; l' basically two sources of opposition to Clarke's plan. The first is I hi' pow1•r of I he Kt>rsten Klique, but this would be neutralized if tlw spcond obstacle could be overcome. That is the irrational affinity of llw Notre Dame studPnt for the American system of presidential gm·prnnwnt. Then• is no student government. If students could see lh;~l and ;~dopl 'B' lht>y would have fewer cliques, less egocentricity, 111on• unit:.·. and morP of a \·oiel' in their student organization. They l'ould final!~· hP done with electing joke candidates out of protest. 
Ht·ason dearly sidt>s with .Jim Clarke. Only a vague nostalgia for the prPsidPncy supports what promises to be a further regression in lht· hislor~· of studrnt govt>rnmt>nt at Notre Dame. It is your choice to lllilkl'. 


Dpinian 
juan manit;~ault 
l'oliiics is a gam£>. £>specially when one connotes it to Notre Dame. Thl' petty political endeavors of the past month are enough to shatter llw whoiP political realm in America. Not even the Watergate affair can match tht> fare£> that took place at the time of Lhe last t:'lection. <'omnwnts on that situation are reserved for another time and space, IHJ\I'l'\'Pr, 1\1~· conct>rn for now is focusPd upon the so-called con­slilulional convPntion organizt>d by tht> so called "concerned sludl'nls... Tlwsp e\'Pnls bare examining from a new pPrspective. 
lnllw lasleiPction lht> mandatP that evolved from tht> students was 1111<' of blank sludPnl governmPnt. The studt>nt body rejected both new propo~als: Ihat of incorporating as well as the granting of authority to thl' Ill'<' Now it seC'ms the campus will get somPthing they did not "ani Tlw "gn•al compromisp" worked out by this representative l'onslilulional com·C'nlion will grant powl'r to the HPC while electing a l'rl'sid1·nl and \'in'-PrPsident at-large. If vou recall the first half of this proposal ,,·as dl'fNlled twice: in the primary and in tht> run-off. \\.!'should also l'l'alizl' that this is I he third constitution to come up for r;llifil'alion inlhn'!' yrars. It all Sl'Pms to bP an pgotistical mess. 
'I'll!' l'nnslilulions an• IITiltPn by a fPw. a limi!Pd few. whose lon•sighl t•xiPnd for a pPriod of om• yPar. Tht>n anothPr conct>rned pt•rson \ITil1•s his constitution and the samp situation exists. If this prol'!'SS is mainlairwd llwn !'\'l'r~·one \1 ill be writing constitutions. \\1111 Ibis IYp!' of chaos no wondPr students have a dead sav in the polic~ that go\'l'rns tlwm. · 
.\s <I "mmanlic idealist"thl'tmly \l<l~·to e!Pan thP air and shovt>l tht> \1 ;llkwa~·s is In t•xamirw llw situation in I he most practical manner. ~i1npl~· inl'orporalt•. lncorporall' constiiutions that arpin Pxislencp at t'llllt·gl's wllt•n• slwll'nl go\'Prnnwnls havl' somp function in working lor studl'nls. and lhl'n fusP llwse idPas into our own. 
lnt·orpor;llt' opinion from diffl'rPnl sPctors on campus like: tninoril~ groups. wonwn. lhP academic rPps. and lhl' facultv as to lhl' ht•sl possihiP form of go\·Prnml'nl Tllt•IHlPcidl' upon a strong. Pxt>culii'P I~ ]lt' of go\'l'l"llllH'nl or a strong IPgisla tiv1• lypP. And finally Pxam irw ;ill past forums at 1\:otre Dame and 'ncorporatl' lhl'ir worth into tlw dm'llmt•nt. An approach such as this one Pliminates lhP pPIIy nature of ganws and opens the door for a strong and efft>ctil'l' constitution that "·ould exist for a period of years not months This l'lft-1'11\'t' eon­sltlllllon would n•mo\'1' llw "monopoly" l'OillPpl of student go1·Prn· lfH·nl ;1nd n·plan· it \\·ith a nwans through \1 hich change ean occur. 
I IIH' n·ason our incorporation idt>a faill'd was lhl' lack of total ~'~''''<liTh dont·. Ll'l·s hopl' thai lhl' llt'XI constitution at 1\:oln• Danw dol'S not lit•('OIIIt' doonwd lit'l'<tliSl' of llw sanw fall' 

remember spring break? 
photos by mike budd 

-
the observer Thursday, March 29, 1973
6 



UYA recruiting continues 
by Mary Janca Staff R~porter 
University Year for ACTION, a project offered at Saint Mary's next year, will allow students to work directly with the Spanish­speaking community in South Bend. St. Joseph CotH~try, and Northern Indiana, without in­terrupting their education or en­tirely removing them from the college, stated its director, Dr. Hichard Bohan. 
Hecruitment for the year-long VISTA program will continue Ihrough Tuesday, April 3. However, he advised that any interested students go to Holy Cross Hall, SMC, tonight between 7 and 10 pm where active recruit­nwnt will be held. 
"The UYA program offers the one opportunity to combine the application of a liberal education the commitment of the students and the tradition of the college in a unique and meaningful way. It is an educational as well as a service program. and the students of the college will have an important role in the final design, as well as the Pducation of the Year for AC­TION." he said. 
According to Bohan, the goal of the St. Mary's program is to develop the community, chiefly by l.'stablishing a multi-purpose community center. Students will work through the areas of education, culture, youth organizations and leadership development to build up the community. 
Projects 
"The original steps in designing the UYA projects for Saint Mary's College were taken during the summer of 1972. The final design and job descriptions will be worked out with the help of student volunteers," Bohan continued. However. tentative projects in­dude: 
--EI Campito Day Care Center, in which volunteers will work to raise the English vocabulary of pre­school age children, to meet the first grade level expectancy by the the time they enter the local 

-
schools. Secondly, workers will conduct a health and nutrition course for parents. 
--An lJI'-'tLan and Migrant Newsletter will be compiled by volunteers. This newsletter would serve as a means of com­munication and supply in­formation regarding the services available and the rights and conditions of the community. 
--A Data Analysis project will be organized to analyze existing in­formation concerning conditions of the migrant camps and will serve as a liaison between the com­munity and the general public. 
--The Community Cultural Center will deal primarily with teenagers, developing cultural activities. providing job training and guidance, and developing eommunity youth leadership. 
--A tutoring program has also recently been established. 
By participating in this program. for a full year, students ean earn between 30 and 36 hours of credit. The departments of l'ducation. political science,
, 

Observer 
News Staff Meeting 
Regular, short business meeting 
Tonight 7:00pm LaFortune 2-D 
psychology, and sociology, which 
are sponsoring the project, will 
grant credit for work completed by 
the students as a volunteer and for 
independent study ckMtw off­
campus. Specific courses offered 
through the program involved the 
active participation in work within 
the community. 
In addition, "volunteers can take 
some courses on campus 
preferably seminar-type courses, 
as long as neither the schedule nor 
the workload do not interfere with 
their work," Bohan said. 
"In most circumstances," he 
continued, "no more than twelve 
hours may be earned in a major 
sequence during the UYA period. 
A total of 30-36 hours may be 
earned so that students will make 
normal progress toward 
graduation during the Year for 
ACTION." 
He stressed that this program will not delay and individual's graduation. "Ifyou can't graduate with your class, you won't be admitted into the program," he stated. 
Community Living 

Volunteers are expected to live in the community in which they are working during service, and in this way, identify with the community being served, Bohan said. 
Students will be living in South Bend's west side, and a housing agency will search for appropriate housing, he added. 
Finances 

All volunteers are regarded as federal employees under VISTA and as full-time students. Thus, compensation includes $160 per month for living expenses, $35 a month for personal expenses, and a stipend of $50 a month payable at the end of service, after any period longer than six months, and ac­cumulated during service. 
As students, volunteers are expected to pay the regular tuition fee they would expect to pay if taking courses on campus. Scholarships and grants preciously awarded will continue, he added, and noted that a student may also apply for a Work-Study grant by the college. 
Admittance 

The project is open exclusively to next year's juniors and seniors. Although some knowledge of Spanish is advised, Bohan said that rluency in the language is not necessary for all jobs. Majors in other areas besides psychology, sociology, education and political science can also be involved, particularly in the art and speech and drama departments, he continued. 
Notre Dame will not participate in this program, he stated. However. since St. Mary's is the only college in Indiana offering this type of program, students from other schools are invited to participate. and will be admitted to Saint Mary's as Special Students. Credits obtained in this program will be transferable to the students' original school after completion of the program. 
l.ength of Project 

"While most of the projects will 

offers the opportunity to combine the application of a liberal education and the commitment of students... " 
be twelve month projects and involved the students working for the full year in the field, St. Mary's is planning a pilot project involving five volunteer positions, ten volunteers, in a summer plus one semester for each volunteer, followed by a semester plus one summer position for another group of ten volunteers. They would be compensated at the same monthly rate and receive 18 hours credit for the period of service," Bohan noted. 
Urges Participation 

However, Bohan is concerned with student response to the program. Although the ACTION Committee calls for 40 students only approximately 25 ar~ currently involved in the project. 
He attributed the lack of 
response to parents' concern 
over allowing their daughter 
to live off campus, and also to the 
difficulty in reaching students. 
"The problem is not that people are deciding they don't want to participate, but that they aren't aware of it," he said. 
Thirdly, he concluded that "students don't have as high an opinion of their ability as the faculty does." 
For further information, contact Dr. Bohan at 4707, or his office 1at 334 Madeleva. 


ALUMNI CLUB 
"SOMBRERO NIGHT" 
(Try this coffee Brandy Treat) only 35 cents 9-12 Are they good. Ask Jim Musuraca 
ALSO ... 
BEER SPECIALS 
at 7:00pm BEER 15 cents 
at 8:00pm BEER 20 cents 
After 9:00 pm 12 oz. for 25 cents 
~hy pay more for less beer? ...HIT THE CLUB 
WRBR Presents: 
an all English Concert 


Wishbone Ash 

"the best boogie band in the land" 
and 

Vinegar Joe 
Saturday April 7th Spm at the Morris Civic Aud. 
$4so adv., $5°0 at door 
Tickets Available at the Auditorium Box Office noon to 5 pm daily, at The Crypt Records and at Pandora's Book Store 
A North American Production 
AT NOTRE DAME 
Settle down 






to the 
natural one. Busch: 
(Available on tap, too I) 
-
Thursday, March 29, 1973 
the observer 
7 

Campus Roundup 
CLASSIFIED ·ADS
Abortion talk tonight 
A Cincinnati physician and his University and the Academy of of the College's continuing "India wife, Dr. Jack and Barbara Willke, Science in Moscow. '73" series and is sponsored in 
will discuss "Abortion: Medical and Social Aspects" at 8 p.m. tonight in Washinton Hall of the University of Notre Dame. The program is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Com­mission and is open to the public. 
Authors of the widely read Handbook on Abortion, the Willkes have appeared in about 70 cities during the last year where they 
presented arguments against abortion legislation laws before 70,000 people. They also appeared on 150 radio and television shows. 
Dr. Willke, a practicing physician for 22 years, and his wife, a former department chiarman in a college of nursing, say the recent Supreme Court decision on abortion "has left the nation in shock." 
The Willkes presently serve as chairmen of the Right To Life group in Cincinnati. They are the authors of several books on sex education for children and of magazine articles published in 20 
publications. A group of teaching recordings have also been com­pleted by the couple. 
Accompanying their talk will be a series of color slides showing the development of the child in the womb. 
Princeton prof's 
lecture slated 
Dr. James H. Billington, Professor of History at Princeton University and an authority on Russian intellectual history, will speak on "The ~trange Death of Liberal Education" at 8:00 p.m., Thursday in Moreau's Little Theatre. This lecture is jointly sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Humanistic Studies Program and "The American Scene: A Cultural Series.'' Billington will address himself to the subject of the humanities in liberal educ.aUon. 
A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Princeton in 1950, and valedic · torian of his class, Dr. Bilington subsequently studied at Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarship, receiving his Ph.D. degree in 1953. 
During the academic year 1960­IH . he visited Finland on a Fullbright grant. In the spring of 1961. Dr.Billington was one of the first United States guest lecturers at the University of Leningrad, where he gave a series of lectures on Russian history, under the State Department's Program of Cultural Exchange. His sub­sequent trips to Russia included sneak ents at Moscow 

Personalized Shirt from Out Selection 


Dr. Billington has published conjunction with the Saint Jary's numerous articles on Russia and College English Department. on American foreign affairs. Since India was under British rule until 1947, English is the 
WANTED 

He is a member of the Council of language of the Indian schools. 
Needed desperately 5-7 Beach 
Foreign Relations and of Even today, the most common 
Boy tix. Pref. together. Mary
degree conferred upon students, 
4878.
theAmerican Histor·ical 
Association. He was appointed by not involved in the sciences, is the 
Riders wanted: driving to
President Nixon to the Board of B.A. degree in English. Therefore, 
Florida April 13th. Return 23rd. 
I<'oreign Scholarship which has contemporary Indian writers 
$35 roundtrip. 283-6338, 3-8 pm. 
supervisory and executive often and naturally write in 
Except Sun. 
authority for International English. 
Roommate wanted: for off-
Academic Exchanges. In Sep­The focus of Mr. Lal's discussion 
campus Must have a good head. 
tember, 1971, he was elected will be the modern Indian authors 
Cilll Bernie 1246. 
chairman of that board. who are writing of the stuggles and successes ur mdividuals in an 
Two friendly fellas desperately need dates to Beach Boys concert.
emerging nation. He will read 
No reasonable offer fefused. lAC
Lecture at SMC examples of poetry inspired by the 
or DC l. Call Bob or Tom -3527. 
Bangladesh crisis. A perfect example of an Indian 
Need riders to INDPLS -This weekend. Ray 3683.
writing in English is P. Lal, who

on Indian lit 
writes poetry. He refers to his 
Need riders to Columbus, Ohio 
Friday 3·30. Call Leo, 1605.
other endeavor as "trascreation,"
P. Lal, Professor of English at 
the act of putting native Indian·
India's Calcutta University and St. 
Wanted: one enterprising fresh­
works into English. Currently, he
Xavier's College, will discuss 
man or sophomore interested in
is on a Jawaharlal Nehru 
purchasing a business with a $300­
"Indian Literature inEnglish," at 
$500 profit potential each football
Fellowship to transcreate two
7::30 p.m., tonight in Carroll Hall, 
season. Call Bob at 7819.
Hindu classics.
Madeleva Memorial. This is part 
Need ride for two to New York City or vicinity for Easter Break. Will share driving and expenses. Cilli Tom 6862 after 7 pm.



An Tostal 
Volunteers wanted -Swimming instructors needed for week of April 2-6. Classes will be held from 8·12 each morning for grade
Girls Basketball Tourney 
school children at the YMCA, 1201 Northside Blvd. Contact Bro. Louis Hurcik at the Rockne Pool, 
6321, tor further information.
Rosters (8-12 members) now 
being accepted. 
Observer needs assistant Ad­vertising Manager. Excellent position for wife of Grad or Under Grad student. Must be able to work 10-5 Monday through Friday. Typing required. Good 
OPEN TO NO & SMC WOMEN 
CALL GREG 7876 
pay. Call 7471 or visit Observer office. 
EARN UP TO $1000 in remaining
Tonight's Meeting changed 
school year hanging posters on

Notice: 
Cilmpus in spare time. Send
to 8:00pm B. P. Chapel 
ni'lme, phone, address, references lo: Coordinator of Campus Representi'ltives, 207 Michigan Tt1ei'ltre Bldg., Ann Arbor, Ml ~8108. Call (313) 662-5575.

Looking for a life of 
FOR SALE 

67 Jaguar XK-E roadster, ex­tremely low milage,

Growth and Service? 
mechilnically perfect. call 234­
6455. 
For Sale: two $4.50 Beach Boys
.. Do you remember the last time you gave of 
lix. Call Ted, 1903.
yourself and grew in knowledge? Recall the last 
time you accepted a challenge because you knew 
1971 350 Honda SL 5600 miles, custom paint, Jack 8550.
others believed in you. Remember the last time 
you experienced the power of Jesus Christ in 
I 11ave 2 extra Beach Boys tix. 
Row 2. Sec. C. best offer. Call Brian 1728. 
your life. 
. . As a Holy Cross Brother these experiences can 
For Sale Acoustic 134 Amp.
be repeated and deepened in a life of dedication 
C1sino Concert PA system -Best
and service to God's people. 
otter, after 7 234-4547. 
For Si'Oie: 1970 Dodge Super Bee For more information write to: ~<rother Robert Fillmore 
383 exll. cond. Must sell. $1500 or Phone: 233-8273 ••asil Hall 
\Jest otter. Call Steve at 2187. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

lmnh1CUiate, under 5000 miles. 

C.11\ 287.9954 f make an otter. 
For Sale 1972 Power.Bilt Citation qolf clubs. Call 8820. 
[] 
Super 8 mm movie camera $180 new. T ,, ke any offer. Must sell. D,ln 8427. 
D 
r.,,,,ch Boy lix tor sale: 2 lower .1rena. c,111 8066. 
LOST AND FOUND 
K 
Lost Spanish text and looseleaf notebook at Circle B·Ball rally. C ,, II John 3630. 
Lo>t C,1\ico cat on South quad np,,r L vons. cilll 3438. 
5 
Found: qirls wristwatch Sunday in South Dining H,111. Call 1610. 
All types of t-shirts 
and jerseys. Many 
Lost. BP,1g\e, tan & white. 
R.lbbies tag No. 18617. Reward. 
C1ll 23~ 8314. Area of Hill &
colors to pick from.
T 
Ctu•stnut Ask tor George or Dick. 
Your choice of numbers, 
Hitchhiker lost il camera lens in a R:·d Vol ksw,1gon ,,Iter being 
D 
IHCkPd up by students on Douglas
letters, N. D. Emblems 
Hc•,ldinq North. 272 4424. 
L<"t nnP leather ski qlove
and designs. We print 
s.• turcl.ly niqht on lll<1in quad. 
R 
C.o\1 1\ill 3136.
almost anything. See 
our large selection. 

Open Mon.-Sat. 
9:00 am to 5:00 
'69 Honda MoPed (motorbike). NOTICES 
Girl student will be ·'Mother's Helper for family with atleast 1 child. will be observing child for course work, 4873. 
Nominations for GSU President, Vice·President and Secretary ­Treasurer are now being ac­cepted. All interested Grads see Barry Wessels 102 B NSH for more information. Nominations close Marc 30th. 
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT GAY AWARENESS COM­MUNITY, CALL 7789, W·Th-F 8-10 pm. 
Part.time jobs available now ahd through the summer as waiters. and cocktail waitresses at the Boar's Head. Apply in person between 2 pm and 5 pm. 
PERSONALS 

If you are a friend of PATCHES KVITTUM of Ml. St. Mary's, call me at 234.1972. 
"Purple Passion", 2 days aren't long--­"A not so distant admirer" 
It's getting closer. Hurrican winds reported to the South. Definitely will strike campus on Friday. 
FOR RENT 

Kitchenette apt. for one. Utilities furnished. Close to campus, 272-! 6174. 
Summer rental -Large, well lurnished house. 5 bedrooms. washer -dryer. $175.00 per month ­incIudes utiIities. 234-1972. 
Want privacy? Rooms $40. 233­1329. 
HELP WANTED 

JOBS IN ACTION Peace Corps and VISTA recruiters will be at Notre Dame and St. Mary's March 26-30 seeking votu'nteers for projects starling this summer and fall. They want to talk with seniors and qrad students with degrees or backqrounds in. liberal arts, er•gineering, business, ar chitecture and law. The recruiters will be in the !Librar~· concourse every day and in 
various placement offices during the week. See the ACT ION people now for a job with a future. 
BUSINESS GRADS Want to be a business leader. selling up co-ops and making things work the right way? Peace· Corps and VISTA can give you that opportunity.. These ACT ION agencies have projects starting 
this summer and fall in 57 countries and 49 states. See recruiters at Notre Dame in the library March 26·30 or in the Business School March 26·27. 
ARCHITECTS Try some new designs with Peace, Corps and VISTA, the ACTION agencies. Community DESIGN Centers across the country need your skill. As an ACTION volunteer for a year or' two. you'\' work in creative projects. See· recruiters at Notre Dame in the librilrY March 26·30 or in the Architects School Much 2d. 
CIVIL ENGINEERS In the Peace Corps working in any ot 57 different countries you'll use all of the skills you've developed t11rouqh years of education; all in ,, couple of years. A.5 an ACTION volunteer you'll help build ,,nother country. See the recruiters at Notre Dame in the library March 26.30 or in the 
Enqinecring School March 26. Try a challcnqe alter graduation. 
LIBERAL ARTS GRADS D<'n't lt'<'l IPII out Pt'aCe Corps ,md VISTA. the Two ACT fON tlCJPnCiP~. rH•cd \OU too. WC' have projects 111 57 countries ,1nd ~9 -.t,lh''· ,111 usinq volunteers wittl lii'IH'ftlf PdUCclfion bCtCkQfOUndS clS ~t•,lctu•rc..., coordiflcltors, Pte. SC'e rt•cruitt•rc.;. elf Notrr• Oclnlt' clnd Sf. M.1n 's M.1rch 26 30 in the library l nne our._<' .Hld ,11 Ll"Mclns Hell I. 
ST MARY'S GRADS f',',lCt' Cnrps ,1nd VISTA rt•crudt'r' \\ill lH' ,1t NotrC' Dcllllt' M.lrCh 76 30 •n IIH' librMy <11ld ,11 St 11,\,lf'\ ·, M.•rch 27 111 LPMans H.1ll Wt• \".•1111 to 1,11k. to t'duccllton tn,liOf..,, "'Ctt'fln' rn,ljors, pre 1~1w 
rl 1 dl(''"' .1flQ. ftbrrcll "'"' fllitjors 
o~11nut voluotPf'r opportLtnitirs m ...,, l ountr tt"t ,lnd -19 ,f,lh'S Trv ·'t f ION t<'r ,, cho.IIC'nQC' Mter ·lfddllollt{)ll 
.... 
., 
.­
.. 
-
8 the observer Thursday, Mae:ch 2~. 1973 
~----~~~---------------------­


Golfers encouraged by Southern swing 

Golf team captain Mike LaFrance. 
by Tom McKenney 

It's one of. the regular signs of spring at Notre Dame. As quickly as the snow recedes from the fairways and greens, Notre llaml''s Burke Memorial golf course is under siege. Some of the invading troops are hackers, while olht•rs are experienced par­breakers. 
Some of the better performances 
Semerad seeks Chicago crown 

Larry Semerad, the 135-lb champion in this year's Notre J>aml' Bengal Bouts, will attempt to take another championship tonight when he faces Mike Masseti of Rockford, Ill., in the Chicago Park District Tour­namPnt. 
The senior from Baltimore, Mel.. will be seeking the 126-pound Iitle hut will have a tough opponent in Masseti. The 24-year old fighter defeated Semerad this past February in the Chicago Golden Gloves. 
All fights in the open round, to be staged at Chicago's Northwest Armory, will be telecast th;s Saturday at 12 pm on channel 5. 
.. 
turned in on the 18 hole Notre 
Dame course are the product of the 
Notre Dame golf team and Fr. 
Clarence Durbin. Who is starting 
his 27th year as head coach of the lrish golf team. Assisting Durbin this year has been Noel O'Sullivan of the physical education depart­ment. 
"Coach O.',Sullivan conducted winter workoo"s for the boys and made the trip South, helping out very much." Durbin said. "I am hoping that he can make the rest of the trips." 
Durbin and O'Sullivan took the Irish team to North Carolina for the annual spring trip. Representing Notre Dame were senior and Captain Mike LaFrance, senior Marty Best, junior Paul Betz, sophomores Mike Kistner and Jeff Burda and fresh­man Jim Culveyhouse. 
The Irish opened their Southern tour playing in the Collegiate golf lournam£'nt at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. There, the Notre Dame squad played against a 14­t£'am field of practiced Southern shools and finished ninth. 
"We played rather well, con­sidering the lay-off," Durbin said. "You have to remember, also, that 
the boys never played the course 
before." 
The Irish lost their next two 
matches, the first to East Carolina 
a! Greenville, and the second to the 
University of North Carolina at 
Wilmington. 
Notre Dame then competed in two scrimmage· matches, facing the Jacksonville, N.C., Country Club's low handicappers and a U.S. Marine team at th~ Cherry Point Marine Golf Club. The team then began its trip home, stopping at Quantico, Va. to play another Marme team. 
Tne Irish played a total of 12 rounds of golf on the tour, com­peting on nine different courses. 
The team leader on the trip was Jeff Burda. However, by the end of the tour, Jim Culveyhouse, the club's only newcomer, was trailing Burda by only one stroke. 
Summing up the trip, Fr. Durbin said. "It looks like it's a stronger tram than last year. There is a good competitive desire and they seem to want to play the game." 
Speculating on the season, Durbin said, "Again this year we are going to be up against some tough competition, Ball State, Ohio University and a number of Big Ten schools." 

The Irish Eye 
In 18(i9, in the riverfront town of Cincinnati, Ohio, a handful of local athletes got together and formed the first all-professional baseball team. They called tlwmselves the Cincinnati Red Stockings, and the gamt> they played, within 40 years, became an in­tegral part of every American summer. 
Today, some one-hundred-and-four years later, baseball in Cincinnati--and in the 11 other cities of the National League--still bears a resemblance to the game played by that first band of pro's. The uniforms and locales are different--the Red Stockings would havP bt>en staggered by a ball park like Riverfront Satrlium. or even Crosley Field--but the gam~ is
... 
basically the same. 
It has been kept that way hy the National League's owrwrs and executives--always sticklers for tradition--who. this year, refused 'to join the Anwrican L£'ague in the designated hitter ex­pt•rimPnt. "We like the game the way it is," said l£'ague president Chub Feeney, during the winter policy me(•ting in Chicago. 
ThP traditionalists should be pleased, then, by the way the NL's 1973 standings turn out. For the final figures this year should be the same as they were last spason: Cincinnati winning the Western Division, l'illsburgh winning the East. 
In the West. particularly, the dt'fending National Lt>ague champions should be stronger than ever. A pair of off-season cross-league trades brought pitcher Hogpr NPison and outfielder Rich Scheinblum to the Heels. and that pair--Nelson especially--will see pl£'nly of action for manager Sparky Anderson. 
Nt•lson will join a pitching rotation that already indudes Gary Nolan, Ross Grimsley, Don Gullett, and .Jack Billingham. but Scheinblum, despite a .300 ;nwage with Kansas City last year, will be hard­pn•sspd to replace Cesar Geronomo in right field. .Johnny BPnch. Jo£' Morgan, Bobby Tolan, Denis '.l!'llke, and Tony P£'rez all have their spots locked up, though. and give theHt•dstoo much fielding and hitting stn•ngth to hl' caught by any Western pretenders. 
Among those who will try to overtake the Big Red :\laehint' ar£' the Los Angeles Dodgers, one of last \Par's pre-season favorites. Heavy neighborhood trading with the California Angels has lightened the LA rostPr considerably, and has also brought the sprvicPs of two first-class players: pitcher Andy :\ll'SS£'rsmith and third baseman Ken McMullen. The l>odgPr offense will be bolstered by the addition of \'on .Joshua. last year's Pacific Coast batting king 1.:1:\7) and the pitching is still strong. 
l\h•ss£'rsmith will join Don Sutton. Claude Osteen, <~nd Tommy .John in the LA rotation, but the Dodgers will nl'Pd to improve their defense if they're to give ('incinnali a fight 
.. 
Tlwy'll need to improve it. also, if they hope to keep ahl•ad of the refurbished Atlanta Braves, a team which might finally have the pitching to go with its off1•nsive punch. The Braves picked up Pat Dobson, l{oric Harrison, Danny Frisella, and Gary Gentry in 
•ff·st>ason trades, and will add them to a pitching wps that includes Hon Reed, Phil Niekro, and Cecil
-' 
''pshaw. 
All he plate the Braves are as potent as ever. Hank \aron. who nPeds 42 home runs to catch Babe Ruth, 11ay he the regular right fielder, and he will be joined 

"The team got in a lot of good preparation doum South and they have been practicing here since they got back." 
Fr. Durbin also commented on some of .the courses that the team will be playing on, saying, "The degree of diffic•llty on the away courses will be much greater than at Notre Dame." The coach cited the fact that most of the courses the team will play on this year wU.' be over 7,000 yards long. The Notre Dame ··ourse is only 6,400 yards long. 
The Irish begin their regular schedule on April 11 in the Ten­nessee Invitational at Knoxville. On April 21 and 22 the Irish will compete in the Ohio State In­vitational and, on the 30th of April, the team will participate in the Mid--American Invitational at Oxford. Ohio. 
The Irish will befheeting at least 
15. l£'ams m each of those tour­naments and will finish the season with their own 10 team invitational at home on May 7. 
b~ D~rst~ Baker and Ralph Garr. Those three, along 
wrth mfrelders Darrell Evans and Dave Johnson, give 
the Braves an attack that may match Cincinnati's, 
but the pitching, still, figures to be of third place 
caliber. 

Pitching is also the question mark in San Fran­
cisco, where a pre-season swap.sent power-hitter Ken 
HPnderson to Chicago for pitcher Tom Bradley. The 
£'ffectivPness of Bradley, and of veterans Sam 
McDowpll and Juan Marichal, and the return to top 
form of slugger Willie McCovey are the keys to a 
successful season for the "other" Bav team. Im­
provPd pitching could toss the Giants back into their 
familiar role as title contenders, but that im­
provement is too big an 'if' this season. 
Houston's Astros have a power-hitting outfield-­
including Cesar Cedeno and Jimm Wynn--but the 
status of their manager (Leo Durocher) is the same 
as that of their pitching staff--questionable--and that 
will place the Astros fifth in '73. San Diego, despite 
the presence of Nate Colbert and Dave Roberts, is is 
still San Diego. and that will place the Padres sixth. 
In the Eastern Division. the Pittsburgh Pirates 
must replace the biggest loss of all. The death of 
Hoberto Clemente--now a Hall of Farner--left the 
d£'f£'nding Eastern titleists with a vacuum in right 
field. hut it also left the Bucs without a solid in­
spirational leader, and filling that gap will be much 
more difficult than finding a replacement for 
('lt>m£'nte as a player. 
But there are several candidates for the vacant 
right field post. Manny Sanguillen is the most likely, 
but Gl'ne C'lines, Vic Davalillo, and Richie Zisk are 
also lop prospects. Elsewhere, the Pirates are 
loaded. Bob Oliver. Richie Hebner, Willie Stargell, 
<;£'nl' Alley. and Milt May return, as do pitchers Steve 
Blass. Dock Ellis, Bruce Kison, and Dave (;ivsti. 
Tlw elosest race in the East will be between New York and Chicago, and age may play a factor in making the M£'ts the Eastern runners-up. ThP Cubs have f£'w young regulars--except Rick Monday and pitcher Burt Hooten--and fewer rookie hopefuls, and lh£'ir chances will depend on the performances of vets like Billy Williams and Fergy Jenkins. The Mets, on the other hand, return Rusty Staub, Cleon Jones.' and l'X-Brave F£'lix Millan, and have a spry pitching staff as W£'11. Tom Seaver. Jon Matlack, Jerry Ko,>sman, and Tug McGraw will give the New Yorkers enough to outdistance the Cubbies for second. 
Steve Carlton can hardly be expected to duplicate last year's 27-10 performance for the Philadelphia l'hillies. but another good year from the Cy Young winner. plus good showings from a crop of young prospects, may move last year's NL doormats all the way up to fourth place. 
St. Louis tumbled from contention last year, and, in an att£'mpt to halt the skid, traded for poise and ex­p£'rit>nce during the off-season. They got the ex­pt>rit>nc£'. but age and a weak bullpen may cancel out .Jop Torr£' and Bob Gibson. The Redbirds will have to survivP in a stretch drive if they are to edge the l'hilliPs for fourth. 
1\lontn•al. last year's fourth-place finisher. did not make any trades during the winter swapping ~l'ssions. and the rest of the division, as a result, is pn•par£'d to leave the cellar to the Expos. 

WhAT'S ThE REliGiOUS LiFE Lil{E? 
Ask tile Men Wllo Krow 
Contact: Fr. Andrew Cifemi, 0. Praem. Holy Cross Hall, 107 UNO tele: 283-6185 
• 

White Sox Opening Day Trip 
Tuesday, April l 0 Sox vs. Oakland A's 
FOR INFORMATION AND RESERVATIONS CALL OR SEE: 
leo Breen 3651 418 MORRISSEY 
Mike Lins 3648 415 MORRISSEY 
SEATS GOING FAST--ACT NOW 
CAC presents 


"Sunday Bloody Sunday" 
starring *Glenda Jackson *· *Murray Head * *Peter Finch * 
directed by John Schlesinger of "Midnight Cowboy" fame Thurs -Fri Mar. 28-29 Eng. Aud. 8 & 10 pm 




