~-~------~---­
On The Inside 
Beer film at Corby's ...page 6 
Jazz Band commences ...page 7 


volume VIII, no. 12 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Thursday, October 4, 1973 
Rybarczyk impeachment possible 
SU ticket scandal revealed 
"The Board is l upset about the affair," he said, "and are ina bit of a quandry about what to do. Personally, I by Jerry Lutkus 
feel it is important that we reaffirm that SU is not
Editor-in-Chief 
atonomous, but responsible to the student government and to the students. Rybarczyk defended the union's system of
Student Union Director Jim Rybarczyk explained 
preferential tickets for the Homecoming football game 
yesterday that of the 500 tickets secured by Student 
by pointing to the precedent of past years. Muth added 
Union for the Southern California football game, 446 
that for last year's game, Student Union members
were sold to the students. The remaining 54 tickets 
purchased approximately 100 of the 500 tickets secured 
were purchased by Student Union commissioners and 
by the union.
personnel. . 
"It was past policy," Rybarczyk noted, "for the
The Student Government Board of CommissiOners 
people in Student Union to receive prefs or com­
will meet tonight at 6 P:m. in ~he ~tudent Go.vern~ent 
pementary tickets for SU sponsored events. It's
offices to consider the ticket situation. Denms Etienne 
continuing of this for the Homecoming GamP.."
admitted last night that the possibility exists that 
He stated further that his first responsibility is to the
Rybarczyk could be impeached. 
people in the Student Union organization, but conceded 
Rybarczyk stated that the .5~ tick~ts ~ought ?Y the 
that he is "ultimately responsible to the students." 
Student Union people were divided ~n ~his fa~hi?n: 24 
"The fact that students are receiving more and
tickets went to the four union commissiOns, SIX hckets 
better services this year, "he continued, "is a credit to
per commission; six tickets we~t to special p~oj~ts 
all people working here. The people have done a
organizers which covers Mardi ~ras, the M1~~r1ty 
helluva lot of unselfish work."
Commissioner and Concerts; 15 tickets were divided 
He reasoned that the workers deserved something in 
by the five SU adminstrators; and six went for 
return, a "reward" as he termed it. "I made the
university purposes. , 
decision that this is one way to give my thanks to the
The remaining three tickets were put into a lottery 
SU director, Jim Rybarczyk; " ... it's too late to people for the work they've done." · 
involving union and student government people. 
rectify the situation." 
The union leaders pointed out that many of the
The controversy and misunderstanding over !he 
Ken Muth, Associate Director of the Student Union people who bought tickets on Monday in the Fiesta
tickets began last Friday afternoon, with a meetmg 
that there were a lot of complaints being registered by 
Lounge were scalping them, "an illegal activity". 
involving Etienne and Rybarczyk. 
the Board of Commissioners. So upon Muth's 
Rybarczyk added that "no one I know up here will be
Recollections of the meeting by the two, offer con-
suggestion, Etienne called the board into an infortmal using the tickets for scalping."
flicting accounts. . 
session Tuesday night. 
"We're not ripping off the student body." he said.
Rybarczyk said that after the meetmg, he was. under 
At the session, the board voted unanimously to limit "They got 223 ticket packages. they would not have
the impression that the two had agreed to set aside ten 
the number of preferential tickets to 20 and then in­
received those if it wasn't for the student union." 
tickets which would be included in a lottery for student 
structed Tybarczyk to return the other 34 tickets. He 
government and student union w?rkers... The SU 
refused. 
Rybarczyk commented that "it's too late to rectify
Director reasoned that these were m addition to the 
"I did not deem the action necessary," he said. "I 
the present situation" and suggested to the Board of
number he had already set aside for the preferential 
would not order the union members to return them. H­
Commissioners thatplans be laid for a future policy on
tickets. <All tickets involved in the controversy were 
Man can do it if he wants, but I won't." 
the Homecoming tickets. Yet, he claimed that the
puchased by individuals with their own funds). 
He charged that Student Government proposed the 
board "threw it by the wayside and ignored the
Etienne, however, claimed that they had agreed to 
limit of 20 tickets "after th fact." 
suggestion."
set aside 10 sets of tickets to be raffled off among the 
Rybarczyk further stated that if he forced the union 
He also stated tht it was his decision to open the
students in the two organizations. Etienne said that 
members to return the tickets, it would make the 
ticket office around 1 p.m. Monday instead at 7 p.m. 
these would be the only tickets set aside. 
directors position "worthless to the union." 
He said he made the decision because of the size of the
The student body president revealed that he became 
He firmly stated that the whole decision was his and 
crowd in the Fiesta LOunge, the heat, the student's
aware of the situation Monday after the tickets had 
that he would stand by it. 
time and the problems of crowd control.
been sold to the students. Alerted, he spoke with 
Etienne claimed that had had Rybarcczyk stated on 
"It was fruitless to keep that many people in there."
Rybarczyk and asked him if he could return the 17 
Monday night that it was impossible to return the 
He stated that he was unaware of the rules that had 
pairs of tickets that union members purchased above 
tickets "it would be a different situation, however, he 
been established for the line and the tickets until af­
and beyond the 10 pairs that Etienne thought the 
said he could get the tickets back." 
terhe made the decision. The rules had been st up by
agreement called for. 
H-Man beleived that the number of prefs issued was 
Bill McLean of the Ombudsmen's Office after McLean 
According to Etienne,o Rybarczyk responded that he 
exorbitant and indicated Rybarczyk's "poor 
found the crowd beginning to gather around midnight
could return them. Yet, Rybarczyk noted yesterday 
judgement" in the matter. When questioned, the S~P Sunday.
that he never promised or made any committment on 
admitted that impeachment of the Student Umon The union leaders clarified that Joe Russo , Sutdent
Monday to return the 34 tickets. . . 
Director was a possibility and was within the Board Union Ticket Manager did not know the 54 tickets were
The uproar continued Tuesday andEhenne mformed 
of Commisssioners constitutional jursidiction. being withheld. 

SLC accepts latest revisions 
by Fred Graver mally" into the passage, between 8:00a.m. He cited the fact that vice-president for student affairs, remarked that she felt womenStaff Reporter the words "will not" and "begin". classes begin at~ B:oo, and that any while outlining instances when a were discriminated against last
Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of time after that, could be many direCtive from the dean of students 
year in that they were not allowedThe Student Life Council staff development for student reasons for someone entering the would be issued, cited the situation to move off-campus.
yesterday accepted the rules and affairs commented that this hall. He was answered by Dr. on campus concerning false fire Sister John Miriam explainedregulations in the latest revision to change' would be open to misin­Ackerman and Kathy Cekanski, alarms. He asked the Council to that this was done last year tothe Student Manual. The revisions terpretation. John Roos, assistant rectress of Breen-Phillips, who make an addition to the insure that there would be nowill now be sent to the rewrite professor of government, proposed explained that the rules are/ in­regulations stating that "false fire empty beds in the gir's halls thiscommittee for a final draft to be adding another sentence that tended to protect the privacy of alarms are to be considered as a year. She did not~ consider thispresented at Monday's meeting. would specifically apply to football people in the hall during the early serious violation of University discrimination, but expedieincy inThe first topic of discussion at Saturdays. Professor Thomas morning hours. rules." 
handling the rna tter. •
yesterday's meeting was the Werge of the English Department This motion, and a similar one The Council voted unanimously,present rules on parietals. These moved to add a sentence and strike made by Fr. Ebey, were defeated. after a short discussion, to list the 
state that visitation "will not begin the word "normally". The motion Sister John Miriam, rectress of addition under the safety and The Council unanimously voted before noon on any day and are not was passed. Walsh Hall, commented that the health regulations in the revision. to accept the regulations. An 
to extend beyond 2:00a.m. on The sentence to be added reads, rules in the new revision are announcement was made early in
The next point of discussion
Friday and Saturday nights, and "On home football Saturdays positive in attitude. "We are not centered on a comment by student the meeting that, contrary to an 
midnight on other nights." visiting hours will begin at article which appeared in The
restricting, but setting down Council member Maureen Lathers 
Bob Connely, a student member !O:OOa.m." This is the hour guidelines in the light of what co­on rule number 7 in the Observer Tuesday, marijuana is of the Council, questioned the proposed to the Council by Dean of education is all about." still considered a serious violation
regulations, which states, "Per­
validity of the rule as it applies to Students John Macheca. by the University.
The Council then moved to the mission to move off-campus must 
football Saturdays. A motion was A motion was made by Ed Rahill regulations covered in the The SLC meets again Monday, at
be obtained from the office of the
Imade to insert the word "nor-to move the noon hour parietal to revision. Dr. Philip Faccenda, Dean of Students." Lathers 4:30 in the basement of Flanner. 
1 
I 
1 
I 
1 
1 
~ 

...------------------------­
., 
£ the observer Thursday, October 4, 1973 
warld 

briefs 
Off-campus office solves problems 
by Tom Kruczek Staff Reporter 
In an attempt to "solve problems, and not create them," the off-campus student office has opened its door to any difficulties that may face the nearly 1500 students who are not residing in the residence halls of Notre Dame. 
The three off-campus com­missioners, Mick Hartigan, Mike Higgins, and Mark Proesel have outlined the basic plans for the year. Difficulties with housing, food and transportation will be the primary objectives to be handled by the office. In addition to these areas, any other that may be shown to significantly affect off­campus students will be studied for action. 
Mick Hartigan observed, "The office can be a very complex place, but we are trying to keep it simple so as not to create problems. But because of the size of the task of handling protlems from such a large number of people, we have expanded to three commissioners, instead of just one." 
In sizing up the role of the off­campus office, Hartigan em­phasized that the office will con­tinue to work through Fr. James Shilts, the director of off-campus resiqents. 
NFSS begins series of forums 
by Virginia McGowan Staff Reporte 
The New Frontier Scholastic 
Society will again sponsor a series 
of forums focusing on the black 
experience in America. 
Tentatively scheduled to meet 
every second Tuesday from 
;7:30-9:00 p.m., the forum wll be 
neld in Room 2A of the Black 
Cultural Arts Center in La Fortune 
Student Center. 
Donald Patton, chairman, stressed the need for members of the black community from South Bend and other universities as well 
DAILY ROSARY 
During October 7pm at the Grotto 
Everyone Welcome I 
f ( f~ I • ;• ':.. , •' I r J ) t t •.1 • ~ \. \ ."\ ,· \ ,1 _.'} 1,~ _.'
0 I 0 
• • .• _ • • ., • • ,. ,. I' ~ • .. o " _. r Jl 0 • o o • I' ... 1 .. • 'I • ll .. 1. .. t 't • t "I I I ll 1 1 f l
'· ........ ­
as Notre Dame to participate. Among the areas to be discussed, said Patton, are the "social, political, economic and cultural aspects of the black experience in America." 
Several guest speakers, to be featured throughout the coming year, will be announced in future NFSS newsletters. 
Although its prime aim is "the study and discussion of issues that lend themselves to increasing the 



TWO BITS 
will buy you a good time at 
Nickie's 
TONIGHT LADIES NITE 
PINTS OF BEER 25~ WINTER COOLERS 25~ 
In commenting on Rick Newman's planned co-op food store for off-Campus students, the commissioner stated, "I called 

him. up and told him that if he 
needs any help with the co-op, that the off-campus office will be there to help out." 
As for the plight of the off­campus student, Hartigan detailed some of the hardships that have to be met. "For most people the rent is about $60-80 a month, plus there are the food costs. Most of the students will rent houses to live in with other guys, but some do live in apartments. The Notre Dame, Turtle Creek and the Crestwood apartments are rented by some off-campus students, but these are higher priced, so they are more 
Washington -An apologetic Donald H. Segretti confessed to the Senate Watergate Committee Wednesday that he used $45,000 and employed 28 agents in six states last year to undermine the presidential bid of the Democrat then most feared in the White House -Sen. Edmund S. Muskie of Maine. 
The youthful Segretti, a lawyer from Los Angeles, said he was hired for his "dirty trick" campaign by a former classmate at the University of Southern California, Dwight Chapin, thzn appointments secretary for President Nixon. 
New York Milk was 10 to 20 cents a gallon higher Wednesday than last week in much of the nation. The dairy industry said milk farmers had been quitting the business because profits have been so low and this has caused a milk shortage and higher wholesale prices. 
New York-Hundreds of gasoline stations closed Wednesday on New York's car congested Long Island, and thousands more planned to post "Gone on Vacation'~ signs on pumps in widely-scattered parts of the nation by the weekend. But a much talked of nationwide shutdown of the country's gasoline supplies by service station operators appeared to have sputtered when dealers in some states promised to stay open. 
elite 
"Right now we do not have any 
programs definitely lined up. The 
three commissioners are going to 
meet this weekend to set our 
organization, but we want the 
people to tell us what they want us 
to do." 
In response to a question about 
the alleged forcing of people off­
campus, Hartigan replied, "We 
have heard some complaints about 
this going on. If we have enough 
complaints on this coming into the 
office, then we will try to talk with 
university officials about 
establishing more on-campus 
housing." 
Hartigan explained that some 
time in late October, Student 
Government is going to conduct an 
experiment with bus tran­
sportation for off-campus students. 
However this is not in the hands of 
the off-campus office, but it will, if 
successful, benefit these people. 
fl:e continued, "We are trying to 
give people a vehicle to get their 
problem solved." 
Voluntee~s are ~eeded to help staff the office that Is located in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. The office will be open to hear suggestions and complaints from 3-4 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday, and from 
capacity of black people to responsibly contribute to the socio­political environment that they share," the NFSS also encourages student involvement in the Black Cultural Center and tutoring 
program. Anyone interested in attending ~he f9rum or participating actively 
m . NFSS projects is asked to contact Donald Patton or Ronnie Barry at 287-9150. 

an campus taday 
9 am -4 pm --sign-ups, tutoring young girls, library lobby 
7 pm --rosary, the grotto 
' 

7:30 
pm --film debate, "should there be abortion on demand", audio-visual aud., cce 

7:30 
pm --lecture, "from st. paul to pope paul ­women's place in religion", carroll hall, madeleva 


8 pm --panel discussion, "christianity and moral problems", fr. burtchaell 
8 pm-lecture, robert sassone, population expert, library aud. 
8:30pm--prayer meetings charismatic renewal, holy 
cross ha II, nd 

lla.m. until 12 noon on Tuesday and Thursday. Friday the office will be open from 12:30-1: 30p.m. 
'The finest in Cantonese 
Cuisine at Moderate Prices· 
Quiet atmosphere pleasant surroundings 
CLOSED MONDAYS 


The Observer is publish~ daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. Second etas~ postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
" 

(AIIf~N(ff 

'166~ 
·Steaks 
Chicken Sea Food 


~-------~--~--~----~----------------~------~-----------...., 
H"r .~ ,9dotJO ,'(6iJcnuu i 1:...-· .~ -. 
Thursday, October 4, 1m 
the observer 
3 

Alumni club plans discussions 
By Howard Wood 
Staff Reporter Extensive discussions on the task-force priority reports will be the main objective of a three-day fall meeting beginning today as the members of the national board of directors of the University of Notre 
Dame Alumni Association meet on-campus. The task-force, formed one year 
ago, is associated with th~ C_o!ll­mittee of University Pnonhes which studies the present and future of Notre Dame in an effort 
to  determine  important  and  
essential  elements  of  the  
University programs.  

This task-force is a committee divided into four segments: curriculum, physical plant, enrollment and research. This 



Sassone tos 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Robert Sassone, an in­ternationally renowned population expert, will give a lecture and slide presentation tonight at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Sassone, a member of the Board of Directors of the National Right to Life group, has spoken out against Dr. Paul Ehrlich's statements as presented in The Population Bomb. He has offered a $1000 prize to anyone who can prove tile need to limit pOpulation growth in the next centrury. The 

THE MASTER OF MIDDLECEARTH 
''J.R.R. TOLKIEN'' 
to all halls, clubs, and organizations: 
If your group is interested in constructing a booth for Mardi Gras '74 during next semester, please contact Terry Gorrell at 234-6274 or Stephen Boy at 232-8436 by FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1973 . ., This deadline is necessary in order to facilitate floor space allocations and other 
preliminary operations. 
Th~ Architecture Department will assist each organization in their booth 
d~s1gns an~ construction as part of its academic program. More details 
Will be furmshed after each organization has indicated its intention. 
Thank you. 



MARDI GRAS 197 4 THE MASTER OF MIDDLE EARTH 
group will offer recommendations in their reports to the Alumni Association and the administrators of the University. 
Dr. Michael Jordan, Assistant Director of the Alumni Association, emphasized the importance of these meetings. 
"Since there is a minimum of alumni association representation on the task-force groups, the reaction of the individual board members is very valuable for the final documents," Jordan said. "The board has had time to read and study the reports and this is their time to respond. There will be variations of opinions but this will result in worthwhile suggestions for the university." 
Additional topics on the agenda 
for the three-day meeting will 
include a report on co-education 
Photo by Bill Rahner. 

eak on population 
and the current status of women in the faculty and administration by Sister John Miriam Jones, C.S.C., assistant to the provost, joined by rectresses of women's residence halls. 
Fr. James L. Shilts, C.S.C., director of off-campus housing, will discuss the measures taken to minimize the problems for off­campus students. John Goldrick, Notre Dame director of ad­missions, will explain the work of alumni schools committees. 
Special guests for the meeting include University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh C.S.C., who will speak at the dinner for directors and their wives Thursday night in the Morris Inn. Fr. James 
T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. will be the speaker for the noon luncheon on Friday. 
prize has not been claimed yet. 
Sassone has published a book, Handbook on Population, as the result of his travels throughout the world, gathering data on high density population areas. 
A graduate of the Loyola University of Los Angeles Law School, Sassone has delivered briefs on behalf of the unborn before the Supreme Court. 
Admission to the lecture, which is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission and the Student Coalition for the Human Life Amendment. is free. 
The Alumni Board consists of eighteen members which includes fifteen representatives of geographical areas of the United States, two members are recent alumni who serve at large, and one member is the year's preceeding president called the honorary 
notre dame concerts ­
NEW RIDERS OF THE PURPLE SAGE special guest: ROGER McGUINN (formerly of the Byrds) FRIDAY at 8:30 in the ACC 
GOOD SEATS ARE STILL AVAILABLE AT THE ACC TICKET OFFICE (Gate 10) 
$4.50, 
3.50, 2.50 

president. This year William K. McGowan Jr., of Indianapolis is president of the board. 
This alumni meeting will be the first of three planned for the year. The next two meetings will be held in January and May. 
student union present 
.. 

.-------------------------------~---------------------------------------­

P.O. 

Ticket Abuses 
Dear Sir: 

The inexcusable mismanagement of Notre Dame football tickets has long been the source of discussion among ardent supporters of Fighting Irish football. Recent developments show that the situation of insipid policies is no longer tolerable in an academic community such as ours; radical changes are necessary. 
First, it should be noted that as long as the coaching staff con­tinues to produce high-calibre football temas and as long as the stadium's capacity is retained at some 59,000, there will exist a serious disequilibrium in the supply of and the demand for tickets. Therein lies the problem. Several policies (apparently designed to alleviate the situation) have been instigated: general admission ticket prices were raised to the highest price among NCAA schools; student tickets were made non-transferrable; and, full admission price was demanded of anyone, regardless of age. As a result of such inspired policy: the poorer residents and friends of the Notre Dame com­munity cannot afford to attend games (as if there were tickets available for them in the first place); students, informed that it is a "privilege" to attned N.D. games, caPnot use another student's ticket to extend that privilege to a relative, friend, or fiancee; and lastly, there is the laughable case of un­
comprehending  infants  being  
charged  $8.00  to  sit  upon  their  
mothers' laps.  

On October first , some 240 homecoming game packets went on sale. Once again, the ticket handling policy was totally irrational. Tickets were to go on sale at 7:00p.m. and a seemingly fair system of rules was devised so that at 1:00 p.m. when the an­ticipated crowd "started" to form, everyone would have a fair chance at the touted Southern Cal. tickets. Hundreds of determined students arrived as early as 8:00 
a.m. however, and the ticket handlers, interpreting this as a greater desire for the tickets than that of those students who waited until 1:00 pm to follow "rules", permitted the early-birds to sign and list and thus sold out not only the tickets but the student body as well. In this instance a lottery system would have been much fairer to all those who desired tickets but, alas, this evidently obscure solution remains as hind­sight. 
Sincerely, Tom Aanstoos '76 
Cover The 


Ruggers 
Editor: 

It seems odd to me that your Sports Department has chosen to follow its policy of last year in ignoring one of the most successful sports on campus. 
Last year the rugby team was Midwest Champs, winners of the consolation bracket in the national college championships, and posted an overall 21-5 record. So far this year the team is 8-Q-1 and yet no one knows about it, thanks to the Observer's coverage. 


I don't claim the journalistic experience of your sports staff but it seems the above facts seem more interesting than reports on various practices or reprinted articles from the South Bend Tribune. A sports department job is to cover all sports, not just the ones they deem important. Thanks for your support. 
Ed O'Connell 
So Long, 


Knaked 
Editor, students and fellow Rabble, 
I would like to thank all of you for your strong support of my per­formance at the Northwestern game. I felt that this showing was one of my best ever and my ex­perience and practice really stood out. But now I must ask that you all bare with me when I inform you of some skin-shaking news. 
Everyone knows that the N.D. stripper has become a tradition over the years. Well, it seems that the Poohbahs has poohed on tradition once again. "They" have decided that the tradition must fall-so my pants no longer will. The reasons behind this decision are rather vague but it apparently stemmed from several factors. It seemed that several females got so hot and bothered by my fantastic body that they had to be passed out 
~";?~=:' 
lhflhi/ORR:l;f 


O;~f 

'BUT, MRS. MEIR, If THE AUSTRIANS HADN'T GONE ALONG WITH THE TERRORISTS , • ER, WHERE WOULD THAT LEAVE YJ?' 
So it is with tears in my eyes, a heavy heart, and a lump in my throat that I hang up my shorts. But for all you die-hard fans, if anyone still wishes to see me strip, feel free to call me and I'll arrange a private showing. 
Pieces of love, "The Knaked Klunker" 
The Value of Admission 
Editor: 
As the continuous farce about our "Christian" community grows more absurd day by day, I was not at all surprised to read about the poor couple denied entrance to last Saturday's football game because they had their five month old child with them, who, alas, had not purchased a ticket in the prescribed Notre Dame fashion. I sympathize with them, but they should have known. One should expect . the money-grubbing authorities of this "Christian" to be totally devoid of any taste or sensibility when it comes to making a buck. 
However, I do find it most outrageous that these cheap 
people (who represent our "Christian" administrative leaders) have the gall to make a public defense of their action. I am, of course, referring to the ludicrous rationale put forth by one Done Bouffard, ticket manager, as reported in Thursday's Observer. Come on, Don! You mean you really can't tell the difference between a five month old child in her mother's arms and an obvious gate crasher? I bet if they were coming through the alumni gate you could. But then again, maybe you really can't tell the difference. Such mental cretinism seems to be a required characteristic for most University officials, particularly those engaged in the solidly "Christian" endeavor of making money. 
Disgustedly yours, 
Bill Sabin 


Chess Reply 
Dear Editor: 
If the person 
who wrote the dirty chess letter had used the name of the persons he grieved against, then this reply would not be so mild. I respect the judgment used by him, and therefore, will not publicly reveal the events as they exactly took place. Rather, I wish to emphasize that the situation was indeed unfortunate and that the tournament director, as well as, the chess club are not to be in any 
way blamed. Any blame to be dished out can be directed towards 
me. Furthermore, I wish to clarify 
just what was meant by "chess 
clocks are preferred but those 
without them will be permitted to 
play." 

The use of a chess clock implies 
that if a clock is to be used in the 
game either player may be 
penalized by losing time if he is 
late. If neither player has a clock, 
then there is nofair way to assess 
how much time each player uses to 
make his moves, thus he may be 
late and not be penalized -· this is 
the grace period. Now one has no 
sure way of knowing whether his 
opponent has a clock to penalize 
him for tardiness, so he shouldn't 
risk being late. Also, it should 
become obvious that if one's op­
ponent is late and you wish to 
penalize him for it, you need only 
to procure a clock and start it. The 
grace period is thus a bonus but a 
risky one to depend upon. The 
tournament could have been 
limited to those with clocks, but the 
enjoyment of having people with a 
wide range in ability play would 
have been forfeited. In closing it is 
important to note that, with a little 
thought, the person who was 
discriminated against could have 
avoided his loss to an opponent 
who never arrived at the tour­
nament site. Also, it is important 
to note that the grace period and 
the ejection of players from 
tournaments are rules subject to 
the interpretation of the tour­
nament director. I feel that he 
acted, not infallibly, but certainly 
adequately on both counts. 
Respectfully, 

Steven F. Osborne 
No Censors, 


Please 
Editor: 

As the sinister spector of Nixonianism casts its darkening shadow across the nation, it's all the more dismaying to see the rhetoric being increasingly em­ployed by Fr. Bill Toohey. At a time when American civil liberties are seriously endangered by the repressive policies of the Nixon Administration, we must avoid any opening for censorhip, however slight. 
Fr. Toohey's scathing anti­communist remarks are hignly disturbing to all those who believe in academic freedom. Doesn't he realize that his vitriolic statements could very easily touch off an anti­communist witch hunt on this campus, like nothing N.D. has seen since the darkest days of the McCarthy Era. We can't believe that that's what Fr. Toohey really wants to bring to N.D. In fact, we know it isn't. The last thing any of us wants is an emotion-charged, Birchite-type 'backlash at Notre Dame. All we ask is that Fr. Toohey exercise care that he doesn't give any more aid and comfort to the right-wing. The campus has had more than enough of this inflammatory rhetoric. Only in a . more reasoned and liberal atmosphere can academic freedom ever be secure. 
Yours truly, David S. Matthewson 

daanesbury 
HEY, ZONK, DON'T YOIJ 
UK£ F!fJHING? 

NAU/. 
I 
the observer


IJarry trudeau 
""~ :I J()ST CAN'T CCJ~ c?.

~~~ 
51ANO THE 1HCXIGHT (JJ{)P~

0 
OF THOSE 8AR85 RIPPING I)'' FISH 11NO ALL, 81/T 
J. UK£ &AT!NG O 
THE FlESH FROM HIS :I [)ON'T THINK I 
FRAGI/..E !10(}T~ CtOf/IJ!NG COt/W EVER KILL 
THE Cl-EAR WATER tf/!TH ONE fiJR SPORT. 
8/..00P fR0/1 HIS WOf/NO/ 
\

\ { 
~ 
~"' 
OH, 11/&/...L-­&ACH TO H/5 OWN. 
STAFF BOX 

Nite Editor: Albert D'Antonio Asst. Nite Editor: Ayn Moriarty Layout: Rick Blower, Butch Ward Sports: Greg Corgan, Peg Lawlor, Vic 
Dorr 

Typists: Barbie Doll, Dianne Cherm­side (l:low do you feel?), John Glannigan, Peter Pan Roper 
Nite Controller: "Bozo" Orscheln Compugraphic: Mike Goetz Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza 

~---~------------.. 
Thursday, October 4,~191' 
the observer 
Black experience comes to N D 
by John McEachin Staff Reporter 

Bringing the black experience to Notre Dame is the special concern of the Black Studies Program and its director, Dr. Joseph W. Scott. 
The Program offers a Black Studies major to any student in­terested in applying his specialized skill to the problems of the black community. This major is unique at Notre Dame because it is a cognate major, one designed specifically to be joined with another field. 
In a recent letter to Dr. Scott, Dean Crosson of the College of Arts and Letters reaffirmed the apecial status of Black Studies. College rules prohibiting double majors do not apply to the Black Studies Program and the Dean encourages students in sociology, economics, history and related fields to con­sider registering for the Program. 
The Black Studies Major 
"People who will eventually work in urban areas or in a profession whose clientele will be substantially black, Puerto-Rican or of another minority group should be especially interested in the Program," believes Professor Scott. He . emphasizes that Black Studies goes beyond just the black experience to include all colonized minorities-Indian, Mexican, and 
Puerto-Rican Americans as well as Afro-Americans. 
Any degree in the behavioral sciences or humanities coupled with the Black Studies major will make the graduate more saleable to prospective employers, ac­cording to Scott. More im­portantly, he feels that knowledge of the black experience is essential in our pluralized and urbanized society. The Program attempts to provide students with an awareness of the experiences, conditions, and origins of black people and their philosot-:hical, religious and social values. 
The courses offered by Black Studies are a primary means of achieving these goals. They are all cross-listed with various depart­ments of the college and are available in such areas as English, government, history and sociology. Professors are highly trained and must meet the requirements of their respective departments. There is a high proportion of Ph.D.'s on the faculty and Dr. Scott says no students need fear being taught by an unqualified professor. 
The Black Studies Director feels that an important asset of the program is the presence of many white professors among the faculty, thus giving an inter-racial character to the staff. He em­phasies that courses are rigorously content-oriented and students are expected to read extensively and do a significant piece of writing as well as pass examinations. 
Robert McCrady, a junior 
government major, believes that students, both black and white, should take advantage of the ex­pertise made available through Black Studies For McCrady, being exposed to the black experience C\n an intellectual basis has helped him appreciate the differences among people within the minority group. He also comments that the professors in the Program provide a lot .of academic help and are always available to discuss specific issues which might arise in a class outside the Black Studies 
Program. 
At Notre Dame, where the 
majority of people are Caucasian 
and Catholic, McCrady believes 
there are certain things that 
minority students need which the 
University itself cannot provide. 
The Black Studies Program 
becomes a focal point, he feels, for 
the activities of these students. 
Another black student, Richard 
Dickinson, felt alienated within the 
University, but found it a pleasure 
to formally study black culture. "I 
became aware of the situation of 
blacks and other minorities," he 
says, "and black studies instilled 
in me some sense of pride." 
McCrady is quick to point out, 
however, that the black students 
do not feel sectarian about Black 
Studies and welcome white 
students into the program. In fact, 
the majority of those enrolled in 
the program are white. Dr. Scott 
estimates that only about twnety 
percent are minority students, 
thereby making students as well as 
the staff racially mixed. 
The Black Studies major is in­
terdisciplinary, designed to 
complement the student's 
departmental major. A psychology 
major, for example, would take six 
hours in black experience courses 
taught by the Psychology 
Department and eighteen ad­
ditional hours to be divided among 
three other disciplines of his 
choice. Through wise use of 
elective hours, the double major 
can be completed in eight 
semesters. 
Dickinson, who is a senior 
history major, doubts whether he 
will finish the Black Studies 
requirements because he found it 
too demanding and it used up too 
many of his elective hours. On the 
other hand, McCrady believes he 
could finish the major with little 
difficulty, especially since it is a field of great interest to him. Through careful planning, Professor Scott says, students can get two majors for the price of one and after gruduation be able to attack the problems of Afro­Americas with a multi-disciplinary approach. 
Most majors sign up for the Program by their junior year. Scott points out it is important for students to register if they are interested in Black Studies, so that their transcripts may be properly accredited. The Black Studies Office is located in Room 345 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
EXTRA-CURRICULAR FUNC­TIONS 
Other important means of bringing the black experience to Notre Dame are also employed by the Black Studies Program. This afternoon a weekly film series begins which will be conducted on successive Wednesdays throughout the semester of films will be shown at 1:15 and 2:20p.m. and everyone is welcome to attend. The series will include Tribute to Malcolm X, Harvest of Shame and The Bus anq will cover such topics as the Negro in Brazil, the problem of tribalism in Nigeria, and the Jim Crow system of segragation. These films will also be available for classroom use. · 
The Program strives to bring a 
diversified group of speakers to the 
campus as well as important 
symposia on Afro-American and 
African Studies. McCrady praised 
the lecture series and said it 
provides a forum of many different 
opinions ranging from Nikki 
Giovani to Charles 3. Hamilton. 
The Black Studies Office is always 
alert to the performing arts as a 
means of bringing the black ex­
perience to Notre Dame. The 
African-American Cultural Center 
in LaFortune is yet another 
example of the Program's ser­
vices. 
THE FUTURE 

Dr. Scott is optimistic about the future of Black Studies. He points out that because of the Program's broad appeal, it is not dependent on either the black student body or black faculty. Since Black Studies was formed by gathering together courses which already existed in var{ous departments, the Program could only fail if there were no 
AS LONG AS YOU'RE STUCK IN SOUTH BEND you should have someone take care of your immediate insurarce needs namely APARTMENT INSURANCE CAR INSURANCE · at very reasonable rates. Call me for a quote: Jim Dunfee 287-4344 
DUNFEE GREENAN AGENCY 
1756 Mishawaka Avenue S uth Bend 15 Indiana 
demand in all of those departments for courses dealing with the black experience. 
He believes that demand is now increasing. Scott says, "At some later date, my hope is that Black Studies will be in such demand and faculty will be sufficiently large that there will be need for giving the Program departmental status." For the moment demand does not warrant making Black Studies a department, but Dr. Scott says he is in no hurry. 



@ 
snow 
SPECIAL ATTENTION: 

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS AND EM­PLOYEES RECEIVE 
$100.00 DISCOUNT ON ANY AUTOMOBILE. 


Observer Staff meeting tonight 



Lafortune 2-D 
6:30 for general staff 
meeting to discuss new payroll procedures 
7:30 for news staff and reporters 
special opportunity to hear John Powers, 
of the South Bend Tribune 

---~~~-~~~­
~~-~-~--­
Thursday, Octotier 4, lf7S

the observer 

Corby's regulars get "Busched" 
by Paul Colgan Staff Reporter 

Shooting a film in Corby's for Busch Beer is like trying to get water out of a well in winter. You have to prime the pump quite a bit before you get results. Thus a well­primed crowd of Corby's "REGULars" did their thing before the cameras on Friday afternoon last week. 
Technisonic Film Studios and Gardner Advertising of St. Louis Mo., were in South Bend shooting footage to be used for a promotional film for Busch Bavarian Beer. They chose South Bend along with flint, Michigan and Columbus Ohio as "typical" cities in their new three state market for Busch. 
Busch was first introduced in 

March of this year and has already 
taken over the number three spot 
in preferred beer brands in this 
area. "That's very unusual 
coming in cold like this." Mike Roarty, Busch Brand Manager for Anheuser-Busch, emphasized with no pun intended. 
John Maggio, Regional Sales Manager, thought Corby's was a "super" place. "This is just what we wanted." he screamed over the noise. "We really appreciate the cooperation by the student body of Notre Dame." 
They were giving away Busch all afternoon. By this time 0 p.m.) Corby's was filled to capacity. 
Most of the patrons were hamming it up and chugging beers for the camera. One, however, was disappointed that Corby's had gone "commercial". 
Corby's is my home," Sue ex­plained, "It's like having movie cameras in your living room. 'It's awful." Suddenly Sue broke away, grabbed Big Lou and posed for the camera. 
Another female patron who had been the subject of cameraman AI Crane's attention liked the idea of "being discovered in Corby's" But then Annie explained, "I'll stay in Corby's. They will have to come 
anc1 get me." 
Matt Dee, the local distributor of Busch, wished Corby's could have been more "natural" but still thought it was a great cast party. He also pointed out how pleased he was over the young people's ac­ceptance of Busch Beer. United Beverages, his company, now distributes the top three brand names in the area. 
The camera crew under chief photographer, Roev Van de Wignjgaardx, enjoyed the shooting as much as the students enjoyed drinking for the cameras ac­cording to AI Crane. "It's super" he exclaimerl, echoing the only superlative the Busch people could say. 
Owner Joe Mell was more than delighted with the turnout. "Busch has become more popular than Stroh's in no time at all." he noted. Busch is preferred by nearly a two to one margin bartender "Boots" Lange tried to explain. Boots and his fellow bartenders were out-
Frosh council convenes 
by AI Rutherford Staff Reporter 

This year's Freshman Student Advisory Council has already convened according to Dean of the Freshman Year Office, Emil T. Hofman. The first meeting was held on September 24 at the Fresh­man Learning Resource Center in Brownson Hall. 
The council is comprised of one fteshman representative from ~ch dorm and one from the off­campus sector. The represen­tatives were appointed by the president of the halls. 
Formed at the dean's request, the council functions purely as an advisory body. Freshmen were advised of the open positions on the council by means of the Freshman News Letter. A letter was sent to each of the presidents to advise them of their duties. 
One of the council's major functions is to evaluate various practices and policies of the Fresh­man Year Office. Material which new students receive over the summer, such as the freshman orientation booklet is evaluated and improvements are suggested. This year's picnic and outdoor Mass during Freshman orientation were the results of last year's council. 
The council also provides feedback on various freshman problems. Their discussions range from difficulties in academics to the morale of the freshmen. The mmbers also provide input for future freshman activities. 
Special projects, such as the upcoming reception for the parents during Parent's Weekend, is in the planning stages for the council. The members 1 plan to meet with various faculty and administration 

members. Last year, the council met with the chairmen and faculty members of the math and modern language departments. Their discussions concerned recom­mendations for freshman courses. The members for this year are: 
204 Fisher Jim Clouse 827 Flanner Art DeMuro 1021 Grace Dick Waris 216 Holy Cross Michael Feord 233 Howard Michael Welsh 129 Keenan Richard Post 113 Morrissey Mike Santillo 224 Pangborn Jerry Czuprm 
129 Alumni 204 Badin 139 Breen-Phillips  Paul Heroman 221 St. Edward's Patter Sheeran 327 St. Joseph's Beth Lavins· 333 Stanford  Mark Hardig Joe Muench Dennis Sliva  
123 Cavanaugh 265 Dillon  Chris Conley Tom Mouch  123 Walsh 232 Zahm  Maureen Walsh Bob Bierman  
220 Farley  Susan Hicks Off-Campus  John Newcomer  



Chamber music at SMC 
techniques" that will employ theThe music department of Saint audience, dice, piano, and dancers. Mary's will present a recital of The public is invited to attend.eighteenth century vocal and in­An admission of $1.00 will bestrumental chamber music on charged to help defray the cost ofThursday, October 4, at 8:15 p.m. the refreshments which will in­in Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall. clude Viennese coffee and pastry. Resembling social events at the Those who will attend should calltime of Mozart and Haydn, the the programming office, 284-4176,evening will include a composition for reservations, as seating will be by Mozart involving "Computer limited. 
Settle down 






to the 
natural one. Busch: 
Especially after the game (or before) 
fitted in exquisite black shirts with Corby's emblazoned on the front . The bartenders were even doing a chorus line dance before the day was over. 
The film crew left around 4 pm. Most of the people in Sorby's became aware of this when they were forced to pay for their drinks again. 
While downing our third con­secutive shot of tequila, Duffy told this reporter that Dick Toland sent his regards. Dick is one of the few people with a reserved stool in Corby's 
Joe Mel! has made no an­nouncement about when the premiere showing of the film will be. The film is a promotional film for distributors and not the rumored national TV commercial. 
The film ·is supposed to be released in January according to Gene Murray, head of the creative team for Gardner Advertising. Members of the cast, friends and relatives will have to wait until next year for a gala exclusive showing at Corby's. 

TRAVEL 

BUREAU 
"ON CAMPUS" -BADIN HALL 
* Airline Reservations *Complete Domestic and Foreiqn Services *Representative for all Airlines *No Additional Cost 
"Specializing in Group Travel" 
FIRSTBANK& TRUST TRAVEL 


Phone : 283-7080 

HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN 


NOW OPEN MONDAYS! 
Call Now! 
All Services by Appointment 
1637 Lincoln Way West Phone 232-6622 

• o r I 1 f r I I , I J o I 1 1> \ ' '• ' ~ • '" • ~ • • • 
Thursday, October 4; 1973 the observer 
ND Jazz band resumes Monday 

The series of concerts and lec­
ture-demonstrations begun last 
year by the Notre Dame Jazz Band 
will resume in an expanded form 
this Monday, Oct. 8, at 8:00 p.m. 
The first event in the series will 
be an audio-illustrated presen­
tation, "Woody Herman in Per­
spective" by the Rev. George 
Wiskirchen, C.S.C., director of the 
Notre Dame Jazz Band. 
A continuing, long-lived ex­ponent of big band tazz since 1936, Woodv Herman's work has spanned some of the most active periods of jazz from the swing era, through bop, the Af~o-C~banphase to the r~cent forays I?to J~zz-rock. ~xte~dm~ beyond Its. big band Imphcatwns ~nd l_Imitations Woody Hermans _music over. the y~ars presents a mi~rocosm of Jazz history and a beautiful example of the adapta_bili~y of an a~ti~st. 
The musi~ discusse~ Will mclude s~me classic recordmgs by the First Herd.. as well as cuts from "Light My Fire," "The Raven 
Events for jazz festival slated 
As plans for this year's in­ternationally acclaimed Collegiate Jazz Festival at Notre Dame develop, all indications are that this season's Fest should prove incomparable. Slated for April 4-6, 
Abortion debate presented Friday 
"Should Abortion on Demand Be 
Allowed During the First Three 
Months of Pregnancy," a filmed 
debate sponsored by Ed Manier 
from the Indiana Committee for 
Humanities, will be presented free 
of charge tonight and Friday night 
at 7:30 in the Audio Visual Theater 
at the Center for Continuing 
Education. 
Standing in favor of abortion in 
the debate are Congresswoman 
Shirley Chisolm and Dr. Garret 
Hardin, both of whom have visited 
this campus. Well-known author 
Pearl Buck and Professor Dennis 
Cabenaugh of the St. Louis Medical 
School take the negative stand. 
Speaks" and Woody's newest 
album, "A Giant St~P-" 
This discussion, beyond presenting a good overview of jazz through the years, is particularly timely since the 1973 version of the Woody Herman Orchestra will be in concert at O'Laughlin Auditorium on Tuesday October 16th at 7:30p.m. The Notre Dame Jazz Band will play as warmup group for the Herman Orchestra. Tickets for this concert are available in pre-sale at the Student 
the event will include a Thursday evening symposium with perhaps the most impressive collection of judges ever, two successive sessions (Friday evening and Saturday afternoon) showcasing 
some of the nations outstanding college artists, and what will undoubtedly prove to be a rare experience to cap the festivities on Saturday evening: a midnight jam 
·by  the  impressive  collection  of  
judges.  
Willis  Conover,  famed  an­ 
nouncer  from  the  "Voice  of  

BEFORE OR AFTER THE GAME 

COME JOIN US FOR SOME GREAT FOOD GREAT DRINK AT 

LOUIE'S BAR 
Alumni & Friends Welcome! 
Union Ticket Office in LaFortune for $4.00 ($5.00 at the door). 
Future events in the "Jazz at Eight (or Nine)" series will in­clude concerts by the Notre Dame Jazz Band and the NDJB Combo as well as discussions of the art of Ornette Coleman, the Art En­semble of Chicago, Charlie Parker and STAN Kenton. 
The Woody Herman discussion will take place in the Fiesta Lounge of the Student Center. There is no admission charge. 



GSU PARTY 
Saturday 8:30pm 
at Carroll Hall. 
100 Center 
CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES 

FRYE BOOTS 
MEN! WOMEN! JOBS ON 
SHIPS! No experience 
required . Excellent pay.



CLASSIFIED ADS 
World wide travel. Perfect summer job or carreer. Send $3 for information SEAFAX Dept. L-16 PO Box 2049 Port Angeles, Wash. 98362. 
WANTED 

I am going to be disowned unI ess I get 3-4 GA tix for my father for any home game but Air Force. Will pay $$. Call 4077.  Need 2-4 GA fix to MSU + USC. Will pay. Call Scott 1598 or 214 Grace. Need 1 MSU GA ticket. Will pay obnoxious price. Call 234­2542  Need 3 GA tix to USC. John 1605. Wanted 2,4, 6, or a Army tix. Cliff 1073. Need 2 GA USC desperately.  Martin D-35 guitar with hard shell case. Call Bill 283-1161. New hide away bed green and black velvet-$130. New irregular gold plaid couch-$50. Call 291-1117.  Anyone interested in science fiction call Jake at 1816. Campus Lebanese-American Club is now forming. In­terested people call Yousef 3127.  
Desperate! y need GA tix for the Army and the Navy gmes. Call 1364. Need GA tix to USC. Call Phil 1598.  Need 2 USC GA tix or I'll kill myself. Will pay $40, call Carole 8148. Need 4 GA MSU tix. Desperate. 4401.  Call Kathy 3784. Need 5-7 MSU fix. Call 1789. FOR SALE  Andy  For Sale: 2 MSU Student Tix together Call 1682 Cheap. 2 concert tix New Rider  PITT CLUB: RESER­VATIONS MUST BE MADE NOW FOR SEMESTER BREAK BUS. RESER­VATIONS ALSO TAKEN FOR THANKSGIVING. CALL 2127  
Need 2-6 GA tix for USC. Will pay reasonably exorbitant prices. Also need 2 GA tix MSU. 232-2973.  Desperately need 4 USC tix . Will pay. Call Pat 3273. Need 1or 2 GA MSU tix. Steve  MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. PNMP Co. Box 444  3rd row. Call 6931. Sony CF-620 AM-FMstereo with speakers, built in casseeette deck 1 yr old.  BOB. Will do typing: term papers, manuscripts, etc. call 233-6909.  
Desperately need 2 USC fix. Call 287-1178 after 10 pm.  1545. Help!  Need 2 MSU fix.  Call  GAAITHERSBURG, 20760.  Md.  Excellent condition Ed 7965. 8 track recorder 60 tapes,  Grandalf attacked by the Nine Riders on Wathertop.  
I want to rent or buy Electric or Acoustic piano. 232-97471 Need 2 GA Navy tix. Please help me. Bill 3251.  Jeanne 6728. Need 5 fix for MSU. Will pay well. Call John 1774. Need 1 MSU ticket. Call 4773.  Yamaha guitar F6-300(retail $300) Rosewood inlaid pearl, adjustable bridge, hard shell case Excellent condition. David 8427.  carrying case. and car tape with speakers. 287-3002. Hand made turquoise jewelry from the southwest. rings, bracelets, necklaces,call tom  LOST AND FOUND Lost new shirt and belt in front of bookstore before Nor­thwestern game. Reward. Call Tom 233-9555.  
Need 3 GA tix to Navy game. Call Mike 1004. Want Domes for personal collection. Need 1911; 1912; 1914; 1915; 1916; 1917; 1918; 1924; 1925; 1926; to complete set. Call Tom Kirshner-acct  Need 2-5 GA MSU tix. Call Jim 234-5822. Need 2 AGA MSU tix. 1593. Want 2 Tix MSU. Call 233­7638.  Electrophobic AM-FM stereo, 8 track tape, and Garrard changer. 8703. Diamonds, engagement rings + wedding rings, at prices you can afford. Ken 1859.  8373 or drop by 209 Pangborn. FOR RENT 11s 'Is AND 2 ROOM APT 7 MIN DRIVE TO ND. Call 288­9533. after 3 pm.  Found Mans class ring. Initials FGG '74. See Lost and Found Memorial Library. Lost senior ring 2 days ago. O'Shag. Reward. Call 233-1089.  
dept 3296 or 234-3790. Wanted: Waitresses and Waiters, no experience nec­cessary, part-time, preferably 21 yrs. of age or older. If in­terested call South Bend Country Club 287-3373. Ask for Chris May. Need dog watcher + exerciser on weekends for friendly Irish setter. Call 287-1178 after 10 pm. Stereo mechanic? Need help with turntable repair. Will pay!! Call 6766.  Need 2 USC tix, call Chuck 234­2542. Need desperately 2 MSU fix. Will pay well. LIIZ 4777 Need 2 MSU fix. Call Pat 6923. Need 2 GA tix Navy game. Call 289-4336. Need 1 or 2 fix MSU. Call Bob 3451. Need 6 MSU tix. Call 287-1178 after 10 pm. Will pay.  national lampoons new en­cyclopedia of humor now at pandoras also penthouse, playboy,oui, ms. psychology today and more thousands of new +used books at un · beatable deep cut discount prices 602 n st louis (at so bend av) noon -9 daily except 9-7:30 sun. '64 Chevy Malibu . 6 cyln. Needs muffler. $75. 234-5980. Swiss mov't perpetual calendar mercury watches. 17 jewels-only $15. Call Frank 3119.  NOTICES Morrissey Loan ~und can loan up to $150 1 per cant interest, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. 11:15-12:15 Mon­Fri. GSU Social committee is looking for members. Be a BPOC; fringe benefits, reitrement plan, etc. Call Paul B. at 6615 or 272-7405. Students interested in ND-SMC Gay Student Alliance call 7768, Wed, or Fri. 7-9 pm.  Found ring near St. Mary's Lake. Call Steve 1545. PERSONAL Hi, Andy! Jany delivered you message after all! Keep the faith, ann. To Chris Tom, RMD,Len, + Draem: "You're so queer"Luv, UG. RIDES WANTED Need ride to Indianapolis, Oct. ,12, St. Louls'Oct. 19. Call 5465.  

the observer 



Amazing Art--seriously talented 
by John Fineran The reaction in the Purdue pressbox was one of total amazement. Itcertainly startled a great many of the writers covering the Irish-.. Boilermaker national telecast. What was it that caused this reaction? Was it Tom Clements' nifty running? Was it the Irish defense stimieing the Purdue of­fense? No, it was neither of these two. The thing that had the pressbox in an uproar was Art Best's little "hello folks" gesture. You know, the hand-blowing, hand-waving thing. It really amazed a lot of people in Ross-Ade Stadium last Saturday, not to mention the millions watching over the television. Flakey? But then again, the gesture was just another amazing occurence in the Notre Dame career of the sophomore halfback. Fantastic things seem to occur everytime Best gets the ball. Seniors, remember when Larry Parker went 63 yards for a touch­down against the Boilermakers in 1970? And on his first carry at Notre Dame no less! Well, Art Best went only 56 yards for his touchdown on his first varsity carry last year versus Pitt. Big deal, right? Wrong. Best was one-yard better going to paydirt two games later against TCU. Amazing. 
"I don't think it was a flakey gesture," Best says. "I did it to show that football should be taken as a game and not as something like Death Row. I did it to ease a little of the tension on myself." 
Alex Agase, the Purdue head coach, is probably wishing that Be-st had remained tense. On the 
first play from scrimmage, Art went 64 yards to set up a Bob Thomas' field goal and early 3-0 Notre Dame lead. For the day, the 6-1, 200 lb. Gahanna, Ohio native picked up 125 yards on 16 carries. 
Running with the ball is not the only amazing thing Art Best does at halfback, although he does it well. So far this young season, Best has accumulated 160 yards on 28 carries, a 5.7 yard average, and has twice crossed the opponent's goalline. Amazing. 
"There is a lot more to being a halfback than running with the ball "Best continues. "You've got to be technique conscious. You have to block and catch the ball, 
too. 
"As soon as I came to Notre 

Dame, I realized that I had to 
improve in all.asoects of the game. Players are a lot quicker here than they are in high school. 
"Although blocking was one of my better assets in high school, I had to learn to use my legs, my back and my arms. I think my blocking has improved quite a bit. 


OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Irish harriers capture first five places. down Valpo 
by Hal Munger 

Notre Dame's cross-country team beat Valparaiso 15-44 yesterday afternoon as the first five places belonged to Irish harriers. 
Jim Hurt led the closely-bunched Domers around the home course with a time of 25:34. Joe Yates followed a few strides behind with Mike Housley, Mike Gahagan and Greg Marino right behind. Jim Reinhart and Hill did not compete due to injuries. 
"We had another good team effort," Coach Don Faley said. "We might surprise a lot of people in future races." 
The Irish, scheduled to compete in the Indiana Invitational this weekend, will stay home instead to prepare for the Notre Dame In­vitational on October 12. Forty schools and 300 runners will compete in the annual event, which will start at 2p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 

The Irish cross-country team had matters well in hand gaining the first five finishes in defeating Valpo yesterday · 
· · · · · · · ·· ·· · · · · · · · 
. . . . . 
Art Best, seen here en route to amassing 125 yards against Purdue, may seem flakey, but so far 
year he's let his performance speak for itself. 
"I wasn't catching the ball too Flakey people would say, "Well, well, either. I had to concentrate. we're going to kill them." That's Now, I am concentrating better flakiness in its absurdity. and my catching is improved." Best believes otherwise. 
So far this season, Best has "Michigan State is going to be a caught two passes for 28 yards and tough team. They're as big as his blocking has allowed his Purdue and they hit hard. They're running mates, Eric Penick, experienced on defense with all but Wayne Bullock and Tom Clements, two seniors there. It's going to be a to pick up extra yardage. tough game." 
Still, it is even more amazing Flakey people would also make that this runner, who is called impossible goals for themselves. flakey by many , has a realistic Not Art Best. His is a different 
opinion about Michigan State, one. Notre Dame's opponent this "The team goal is to go 10-0 this Saturday. season and get a bowl bid," Best concludes. "Especially if that bowl bid is against Nebraska. 
"I think everyone on the team wants another chance atNebraska after what they did to us in the Orange Bowl. 
"We're not looking back, however. It's here, it's now. You have to prepare for everybody." 
Flakey people do not talk like that. That's why it's ridiculous to call Art Best flakey. 
And if Art Best continues to perform amazing things, 1973 for Notre Dame will be better than 1972. In fact, 1973 just might be the ''Best.'' 
Demmerle not a glamour boy 
Split end may be one of the glamour positions on a football team, but Notre Dame's Pete Demmerle had to perfect the less glamourous aspects of the position to play for the Irish. 
Demmerle, a junior from New Caanan, Conn., was the only split end in his class. In high school, his coach, Bob Lynch, liked to put the ball in the air-sometimes 35 times a game, according to Pete. As for his quarterbacks, Demmerle had ari all-stater throwing to him his three varsity years. 
But catching the ball, while a necessity when it comes his way, just isn't what the position is all about. 
"The whole, overall concept of the position didn't come across to me until last year," Demmerle admits. How many plays is the split end actually catching the ball? Against Northwestern, I caught three passes. That's not even five per cent of the total number of plays (actually, it was 4 per cent of the 75 Irish plays). So 
you  see  how  little  that  really  
matters.  
"What  is  important  are  your  

assignments and your blocking on the rest of the plays. So when they throw you the ball just five per cent of the time, you better catch it." 
Demmerle got his chance to crack the starting lineup last spring when regular split end Willie Townsend, who also played basketball for the Irish, needed some time off. "Willie's absence gave Pete and Kevin (Doherty) stronger attention and more work," explains receivers coach Mike Stock. "Pete could always catch the ball, but he made up his mind last spring that he was going to block. Since we use a single receiver system, a split end has to utilize all his tools. We just can't afford to have a guy make a mistake in that position. Overall, Pete has given us the best total picture. The offense we run necessitates a complete balance throughout the whole team. The split end has to block, catch the football and run for us to function properly." 
Until his sophomore season, however, Demmerle was in a receiver's paradise. 
"I had more of an adjustment to make between freshman and sophomore year than I did between high school and freshman year," says Pete. "We threw quite a bit in freshman football, although it wasn't quite as much as high school. 
"But sophomore year, I wasn't the only split end anymore. There were five of us, with me being the 
1 slowest of the group. And all of a sudden, they wanted you to be technique conscious• on your blocking when I hadn't done much blocking at all. I still don't think my technique is as good as 1t · should be. I still do a lot of scrap blocking, especially in the open field." 

Theismann. I didn't think they'd . come up with anything less for my three years." And the Irish didn't-not at Pete Demmerle quarterback, or at split end, either. 
IDame football for a long time," he says, "and I knew about .. ,,Lamonica, Huarte, Hanratty and 
"It still isnt' so much perfect timing as it is Tom having an idea of what I'm thinking," Pete ex­plains. "He knows I'm not going to go blazing by." 
Because he lacks speed and sees so little of the ball, Demmerle has been one of the least known Irish players in one of the so-called glamour positions. 
"Pete is rather anonymous," admits Stock. "It's almost like having a ghost on the team until the play is made. He doesn't necessarily possess great speed, he's never started, he's quiet and he prefers to lead by example. But he has a great deal of confidence in himself-and I have confidence in him." 
A lot of schools thought Dem­merle could play for them, but like so many student athletes who play for the Irish, the mystique of Notre Dame captured him early. 
"When you're a little kid, you don't know anything about schools," he explains, "but when )'W dad went to one of the two schools on television all the time, you get interested. My dad went to Notre Dame, and I got interested without him pushing me. I might have gone to an Ivy League school if Notre Dame hadn't been in­terested in me. But Notre lml.ae is on the same academic level and I have the same capacity for either Notre Dame or the Ivy League. What matters is the amount of work I put in." 
But being a receiver who was used to catching the ball a lot, Notre Dame's long tradition of great quarterbacks was a factor in Pete's choice. "I followed Notre 




