On The Inside 
Dugan talks about AAUP ... page 6 Campus traffic tix abound ... page 7 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No.6 Wednesday, September 12, 1973 
Bike registration planning changed 
by Joseph Abell and Rick Scharf 
A quickly-called meeting Monday between Security Director Arthur Pears andDean of students John Macheca resulted in a change of plans for bicycle registration set for Wednesday af­ternoon. 
Students wishing to register their bikes will now be charged $1 for registration with the Computer Card national bicycle l"egistration, the only type of registration to be offered. A free registration with Notre Dame Security onlyhad been announced earlier in the week. 
Pears said the change of plans came after the clearing up of some confusion between h;~ office and the dean of students. 
"We wanted the st vi.:e that would most benefit the students and <Macheca) and I feJ· that Computer Gardcould:lo a better job than we could," Pears S'Jid. 
He said he also thougl1t the students should have some kind of identificaton for his bike in addition to a sticker on the bike itself. Computer Gard provides for ~ ~egistration card for the bicycle owner that is identical to the one placed in the !'ecurity department 
files. 
He said this identification card would br-ideal for proving ownership of a bicycle, especially in light of a South Bend city ordinance prohibiting the operation of unregistered bikes. 
Pears said that the registraton with Computer Gard wold fulfill any South Bend legal requirements. Usually, a South Bend resident must go to a fire station and obtain a registration and license 
Off-campus students may choose either registration, Pears added. ~nothe~ consideration in the change was the cost of registration, sa1d Chr1s Sin~leton, a senior in charge of the registrationprocedures. 

He said that the charges to place all vital information of registration on file in the university's computer was prohibitive. The $1 charge for Computer Gard will go directly to the national organization. 
Pears urged students to take advantage of the bike registration to be held between 2:30 and 5 p.m Wednesday through Friday in LaFortune Student Center and 5 to 6 p.m. Thursday and Friday in the dining halls. He said bike thefts have plagued the campus throughout the summer and added that 13 bikes had already been reported stolen since classes began. 
He said that though the registration would not deter a determined thief, it would serve as 
. . an aid in locating an ·owner when 
Chrts Smgleton a bike is recovered. "We have over 40 recovered Ukesright now because no one has been able to give us their serial numo~. to claim them," he said. "When we have the number registered with us, locating the bicycle becomes easier and gives the proper owner a means of positively identifying the bicycle when it is recovered," he added. There are more bikes on campus this yar than ever before, he continued, suggesting this as a reason that more bicycles were sto len during the first week than during the same period in 1972 Most of the thefts occurred durng the day, he added. He expressed optimism for the registration's success, saying that he hoped that "there should be this much interest from owners of $75-$100 bicycles." Singleton echoed his sentiments in his hope that more than the estimated one per cent of last years's owners who registered would turn out this year. "The students have to realize the need for this registration," he said. "They also have to recognize that right now this is strictly a volunteer project and support it as such, especially since many larg· r universities have gone to a mandatory registration." He said he hoped Notre Dame would not have to enforce a mandatory bike registration, but pointed out that if not enough student support was generated and thefts continued to increase, the possibility existed. He also outlined tentative plans for a follow-up to the registration this week which included working through the individual halls and a "ticketing" campaign thatwotilotie reminder tags to unregistered bikes seen on campus. "In the halls, we would coor­dinate bike registraton with property registration (filing serial l'!umbers of stereos, etc. with s e c u r i t y ) , ' ' Singleton explained. The "ticketing" campaign would involve no penalties for unregistered bikes, only reminders to. the owners. To register a bike this week, he added, a student should bring the serial number, color, price, manufacturer, year and any distinguishing features to the booths set up in LaFortune and the dining halls. Students need bring the bike itself if they bring this 'informatin'! , he said. Security Head Pears 
(continued on page 7) 



of the 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
HPC Chairman Fred 

Baranowski announced last night 
thatalthough no exact figures have 
yet been released, a tentative 
budget of Student Government 
funds has been designed and 
awaits approval from the Board of 
Commissioners. 
The money alloted by this budget to the Hall Presidents Council will be used primarily for two func­tions: the Hall Life Fund and the annual An Tostal celebration. 
Baranowski requested that each of the presidents discuss the needs of their halls with their councils and return next Wf~k \\'ith a list of proposals for spending their share of the Hall Life Fund. 
"The only real restrictions," said Baranowski, "are that the money be used for the benefit of everyone in the hall and that it not be spent on maintenance." He added that although allocations for hall banquets were not allowed last year, they will be valid this year. 
Baranowski also pointed out that there are two possible methods of allottment: 1) equal allocations for 
Hall Life Fund 
each hall or -2) allocation by population <larger halls getting greater funds). The presidents will decide at next week's meeting which procedure will be used. 
Another question raised at last night's meeting "as the method of awarding permits to operate hot dog stands on campus for football weekends. Bar<:nowski said that Fr. David Schlaver, director of student activities, has not yet established a policy on this matter. 
Phil Byrne, president of Alumni, argued that the halls should be given preference over clubs in receiving permits. 
"Verv often the clubs awarded permits have no more than ten members, in which case only a few students benefit from the profits," said Byrne. "The halls are much more presentative and need the extra revenue." 
Wally Gasior, president of Dillon, pointed out that "even if the halls are given preference, some kind of system must be developed to enable halls with poor locations to compete with those having ideal positions." The HPC will further consider proposals regarding the distribution of concession permits next week. 
Chris Singleton asked for the assistance of the hall presidents in urging students to register their bicycles with the campus security office. The fee is $1.00 and the registration is valid for five years anywhere in the country. 
"The greatest problem presently facing the security office," said Singleton, "is that of stolen bicycles, for there are ap­proximately 1800 bikes on cam­pus." 
Besides the issue of better security, Singleton also pointed out that there is a city ordinance forbiddingthe use of unregistered bicycles within the city limits. 
The HPC also unanimously agreed to invite the SMC hall presidents to attend HPC meetings. The St. Mary's representatives will not be allowed to vote on HPC issues but "their opinions and suggestions will be welcome." 
"Although most of the matters discussed at our meetings do not concern the girls at St. Mary's," explained Baranowski, "they do participate in our An Tostal celebration and should be given an opportunity to express their viewpoint." 
Carney '73 swings tonight 
by Tony Proscio Staff Reporter 
Carney '73, last in a three-stage orientation package sponsored by Student Government, will begin at 
4: oo this afternoon on the South Quad. 
The event, began as an im­provement in Freshman Orient­ation but is now intended as a campus-wide move to "bring students and faculty together.. " said Jim Roe, administrative assistant. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, university president, and Student Body President Dennis Etienne will speak at 6:15. 
"One purpose of the Carney," 
Six games, including pie throwing, basketball shooting, football passing, and ring toss, will begin the activities. A surprise kissing booth is also planned. 

Several cancellations have delayed final arrangements for musicians, said the Carney's co­chairman Daniel Schipp. The emphaiss will be primarily on folk music, with performances beginning at 5:30. Groups and soloists, including former Hall Presidents' Council Chairman Butch Ward, will be featured. 
Both Notre Dame's Jazz and Marching Bands were originally scheduled and later ·cancelled. 
Names of grous to replace the ND bands are not yet available. 
Freshman Orientation weekend was the first of three events planned by Co-chairmen Daniel Schipp and David Caruso. Followed by Activities Night last Moday, the annual program was expanded to include a third step sponsored by Student Government that would attract up­perclassmen . 
"This has been a total Student Government project," Schipp noted. "'H' and Mike Geisinger (student body vice-president) and just about everyone else here has helped out." 
Roe said, "is to give Fr. Hesburgh and H-man (Etienne) a chance to 

Allende commits suicide introduce themselves to the new students in a relaxed at­mosphere." 
The four-hour Carney will also include games music, and a 

••• see page 3
chicken dinner on both quads provided bv the dining halls. 

--------------~--------------------------------------­
the observer Wednesday, September 12, 1973 
an campus taday 
Washington--Court of Appeals hea_rd three hours of arguments Tuesday in the fight to force the White House to. ~ele~se. the secret 4:30 -7:30 p.m.--carnival, both Watergate tapes. It is expected to hand down a deciSIOn m time for t~e quads, open to all ND com­

warld 

case to go to the Supreme Court when it reconvenes October 1 for Its munity 
fall term. 
5 -7 p.m.--university club welcomes new faculty members, free dinner


briefs 

Washington--Attorney General Elliot Richardson agreed Tuesday to let two senators look at a secret FBI report of wiretaps made i, efforts 
7:30 p.m.--registration, culture 

to stop news leaks from the office of White House aide Henry 
series, american scene series,

Kissinger. The agreement apparently ended a stalemate in Senate 
registration and orientation in

l,earings on Kissinger's nomination to be secretary of state. 
carroll hall 


While glancing through the latest issue of Nutshell it seems that one can't help but see the phrase, "Who can I turn to?" Well, don't bet your garbanzo beans that that's altogether the case here at ND. The Om­budsman Service is beginning its sixt'J year of serving the ND Cl'm­munity and this year more than ever it hopes to prove itself able to handle any and all questions that come its way. However, even this is not enough. 
It takes more than just answering questions to make an Om­budsman Service responsive and effective. It requires the ability to seek out solutions to problems which at times seem to defy all laws of reason. It requires individual concern on the part of each member of the Ombudsman to do his or her job and to do it week-in and week-out, to the best of their ability. This and more is what makes an effective Ombudsman Service an everyday reality. 
The Service's hours for this fall are 9:30 to 5:00 weekdays and from 6 to 10 in the evening on Sandays. So the next time you have a question, problem, or complaint and you can't wait for Action Express, give the Ombudsman a call at 7638. 
What is the bus schedule into town? 

Buses leave the Library Circle daily from 6:25a.m. thru 8:40p.m. They leave every 30 minutes from 6:25a.m. thru 9:25a.m. and from s·10p.m. thru 8:40p.m. During the time period between 9:25a.m. and 
5:10 p.m., departures run every 15 minutes. Buses returning to campus from downtown operate on the same schedule. The fare for the rider is 30 cents and transfers are free. I shoulcl be noted that service ends at 8:40p.m. daily on this route. 
How do you get to Scottsdale Mall by bus? 

Take the downtown bus which you can catch at the circle to the Courthouse. Then transfer to the Miami Bus Route, this will get you to the Scottsdale Mall. Buses leave from the Courthouse every 30 minutes from 5:10a.m. thru 8:40p.m. and return from the Scottsdale all on the same schedule. Transfers are free. 
Where can I get my basketball inflated? 

A pump is available at the towel issue room of the ACC. By the way, the ACC is open from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday thru Saturday, and 1 
p.m. to 10 p.m. on Sunday. 
Are there any gun clubs or organizations on capos? 

Army ROTC runs a short-22 rifle club called the Sorin Riflemen. It i 
affiliated with·the National Rifle Association, and is supervised by 
Major Cochran of Army ROTC. For further information, contact Gary 
Evins at 1493. 

Navy ROTC has a varsity rifle and pistol team which competes in a league against such schools at I.I.T., Loyola, Purdue, and Ohio State. The team consistB mainly of ROTC students but non-ROTC students are welcome. For more information, contact M&jor Dalzell at 6442. 
As far as we can tell there is no shotgun oriented gun organization on campus. 
Where can I get documents notarized? 

There is a notary public in the financial aids section of the Ad­missions Office, from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday thru Friday. 
Beginning this week.... 


THE NON-STOP GREYHOUND TO CHICAGO 
RETURNS 

Every Friday at 3:55 pm a Greyhound Scenicruiser goes non-stop from Notre Dame Circle to Chicago. Two buses return on Sunday. 
call: TOM BOYER 272-1807 for information & reservations 
Activities nig;ht again successful 
by Melissa Byrne Sta£f ReJIOrter 
Student Government organizers were pleased with attendance at Activities Night in LaFortune Student Center Monday night. They estimated the attendance to be equivalent to last year's large crowd. 
"We noticed a steady stream of people entering LaFortune, it was never completely empty," said Dan Schipp of Campus Orientation Committee. 
Moving Activities Night to LaFortune was the key to success, noted Schipp. Organizers were apprehensive about possible power failure. LaFortune has not been re-wired since last year's fM!@I' failure on Activities Night. Rotating methods for slide 
projectors were developed this year as a preventative measure. Approximately 75 organizations (continued on page 7) 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Anyone interested in joining the 
DEBATE TEAM 

meeting Thurs. Sept. 13 
7 p.m.
Room 1-c LaFortune 




;THE RED DOOR CLUB 
110 1/2 N. Main 

the distillery Liquor Store 1723 So. Bend Ave. 
East on Edison-Take a left at the Linebacker -200 yds. on left 
Jim & Chuck both Alumn's 
Gin & Vodka -8.87 a Half Gallon You Can Order Kegs-call by Thurs 272-980 Always A Beer S_peciai-Discounts on Cases of Liq. & Wine. 


WE'VE GOT 



WHAT IT TAKES! 
Providing what it takes is the latest, university­styled apparel and accessories. If you look us over you'll find jeans, tops, coordinates, sweaters in great variety, shirts, socks, sport­coats, etc, etc. You'll also discover that our prices are competitive...no need to travel afar for clothing. We've got what it takes. Take it from us. 


~-----­
Wednesday, September 12, 1973 the observer 
3 
Allende suicide climaxes revolt 



by Roberto Mason 
SANTIAGO, CHILE <UPI)--The Chilean armed forces overthrew President Salvador Allende Tuesday "to remove the yoke of Marxism." A newsman inside the presidential palace said Allende committed suicide as troops, tanks and planes stormed the palace. 
Juan Enrique Lira, chief photographer for the newspaper El Mercurio, said Allende bade two cabinet members farewell inside the palace and shot himself in the mouth with a machine gun. 
Lira said he was the body of the 65-year old president lying on a blood-stained carpet in the grand salcn of the palace. 
The military refused to confirm the suicide and said a communique on Allende's fate would be issued 
Wednesday. 
It was the first military in­tervention in 41 years in Chile, long one of Latin America's most stable democracies but thrown into chaos by weeks of strikes and mass action against Allende's Marxist coalition government. 
·./et bombers, tanks, armored cars, jeeps equipped with machine guns and riflemen blasted t.tie 150-year-old La Moneda palace in downtown Santiago, setting it afire. 
Allende's fate was not im­mediately clear. The president, who took office three years ago as the western hemisphere's first freely-elected Marxist chief executive, earlier had declared: "Only dead will they take me out of La Moneda." 
He had early in the siege been abandoned by the palace guard and most of his civilian aides who surrendered before 
Directory correct·ions due today 
by Jim Dona then Staff Reporter 
Today is the final day for reporting corrections and om­missions of local addresses and phone numbers as printed in the Preliminary University Directory, said Richard Sullivan, university registrar. Faculty and staff should report any changes to the Per­sonnel Office and students should report corrections to the Housing Office (315 Administration Building.) 
Sullivan emphasized the im­portance of the deadline with regard to off-eampus students. . The preliminary directory ~as printed for two purposes according to Sullivan: to provide addresses and phone numbers to students and faculty at the start of the semester and as an editing tool to gain corrections and additions for the permanent directory. "I feel that 
IHIIIIIWIIIIJIDIIDRIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIJIIJIIIIIIIDIIII 
Errata 
The Observer reported incr,rrectly Monday that a few maids had been fired over the summer in an effort to cut down on maid service. No maids have been fired. 
The frisbee fly-in is being sponsored by WRBR-FM (104) not WSND as had been reported in yesterday's Observer. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJJIIIIIIIII 

~ndoz.a:s 
241 Dixieway North 1 mi. north of ND 
Guitars ·A,Accessories 
Music :Instruction 
l 
Everything for the guitarist· 
the bombardment started. He had asked for a five-minute truce to arrange surrender during the bombardment but been refused because of the active sniping going on in the neighborhood of the palace. 
The military decision to launch allout attack on the palace came after Allende refused to step down and called on the people to support him. The armed forces commander's said they were acting to remove the "yoke of Com­munism" from Chile and to halt the country's plunge into national chaos. 
Allende's residence also had been bombed during the day because guards had opened fire on jet aircraft attacking the palace. 
The heads of the armed forces did not wait for Allende to surrender. Immediately after starting the attack on the palace they proclaimed them­selves "a new government," declared martial law, estab­lished a curfew and forbade civilians to carry guns. 
A military communique warned that any resistance to the coup would be crushed by force. To drive home the point, the military leaders blew up transmitters serving radio sta­tions which had been support­ing Allende and cordoned headquarters of the Chilean Communist Party which had declared its support of _Allende. 
Meetings of groups of people were prohibited and civilians wer':' urged to stay at home. 
Opposition newspapers, radio and tv stations were banned. 
Only fighting in the country appeared to be confined to Santiago, and that was spora­dic. Some snipers exchanged fire with troops around the downtown palace. Reports from the interior said the cities of Valparaiso, Quillota, Quinteros and Talcahuano were under control of the navy. 
Casualties in Santiago ap­peared to be minimal. A UPI cameraman said he had seen two dead persons on the streets near the palace, one of them a paralytic. He said he had also seen some wounded persons. And from the windows of the UPI office, adjoining the palace, three wounded soldiers, apparently victims of snipers, also were seen being removed to hospitals. 
A UPI reporter in the suburbs said he saw three wounded snipers being carried away. 
The UPI .office came under fire as the attack on the palace mounted in intensity. Bullets came through the windows in a spray, knocking out some lights and a teletype line. The fire was believed directed at a sniper's nest manned by Allende supporters on the floor above the UPI office. 
The UPI office lost communi­cations with much of the outside world early in the day but soon managed to open up a direct telephone line with the UPI office in the Argentine border city of Mendoza from which a steady flow of news was maintained. 
Tuesday's coup was the culmination of months of crippling strikes which par­alyzed the economy and brought the nation to the verge of economic disaster. 
Armed forces leaders in announcing the coup pledged to respect workers' social and economic gains. The Tuesday coup followed an aborted attempt by a tank regiment earlier in the suummer to force Allende out of office. 
The last Chilean president forced· out of office was Carlos Ibanez del Campo. He fled the country in July, 1931, amid a grave economic crisis and a general strike in reaction to his dictatorial policies. Ibanez had seized power in a coup d'etat in 1925. 

Ibanez' departure was fol­lowed by a succcession of short­lived military juntas and presidencies that ended with the election of President Arturo Alessandri in Dec., 1931. The country had enjoyed a succes­sion of constitutional govern­ments since then. 


THE OBSERVER 
ANINDEPENDENTSTUDENTNEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager Jerry Lutkus 
Dan &.rreH
Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos 
Advertising Manager 
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Wednesday, September 12, 1973 

Register Bikes 
Registering a bicycle is a real pain, but what hurts even more is to come out of your hall in the morning and find your bike gone. Not only does it hurt, it costs. 
Ifyou do not have your bike registered, even if security or students recover it, it cannot be returned to you, unless you can produce the serial numbers for it. 
Wednesday through Friday of this week, the opportunity will be afforded to students to register their bikes with ND Security and a nationwide firm, Com­puter Gard. 
Computer Gard will cross-reference the bike in their files by owner's name, serial number and make. The nationwide service applies for 5 years with the payment of one dollar. 
.If for instnace, your bike is registered here, stolen, then fenced in some city and recovered by police there, Computer Gard can trace it back to the owner. 
For a dollar, it's a pretty cheap way to avoid really getting ripped-off. Stands will be 1oet up in LaFortune on Wed­nesday, Thursday and Friday from 2:30 to 5 and in the dining halls on Thursday and Friday from 5 to 6. 
It is being made very convenient for everyone who owns a bike to register it. To top it off, the possibility exists, despite the failure of the dean of students and the security director to confim it, that if enough students do not register the bikes, registration of them, like cars, will be made mandatory. 
Mandatory is a bad word which breeds pictures of tyranny, but in a case like this, it would be necessary. Every bicycle on campus should be registered. Years ago when biking (and bike stealing) was not quite so popular, it wasn't really necessary. But the times 
and  the  circumstances  have  forced  it  
upon us. If you  have  a  bike,  register  it this  
week.  
Jerry Lutkus  

ND Without Maids 
Notre Dame has made a step back into the future with the announcement that maids will no longer make the beds of the hall residents here. 
It was always nice to have. You could sleep late and still make it to your class knowing that you'd return to a nicely made bed. But when you come to think of it, all those strapping young lads are physically capable of tucking a few 
The Right Attitude 
Editor: 
I just recently had an opportunity to read through the Freshman Edition <September 1) of The Observer. I took particular notice of the editorial com­ments prepared by yourself and by Butch Ward.. The remarks each of you had to make werei~portant and timely, to say the least. I only hope that they were not passed over by many of the freshmen in the Orientation Weekend whirlpool of activity. Each of you guys weaved a common thread through your columns which told the reader in effect that Notre Dame in and of itself would not automatically make its students happy, but that it basically provides a setting in which the people of Notre Dame can make their way toward a happy existence for themselves and others through in­terrelationships. The lesson is just beginning for 1800 freshmen (and probably for countless upper-classmen who mistakenly assumed that passivity would suffice in their early experience at Notre Dame). For Ute true students of life, the lesson will not be wated while they're here, or in their later life. I commend you both for taking the time to write on a theme so positive and appropriate as this one is. 
Sincerely, Mike Jordan Assistant Director, Alumai Association 

sheets under the mattress. In fact, it seems that those same residents are strong enough and in­
·ventive enough to figure out a way to dump their own waste baskets and clean out their sinks. Having the maids at ND has been a wonderful luxury, but in the days of rising, exorbitant costs, it is an expenditure that really isn't necessary. 
Jerry Lutkus 

TV Listings Thursdav 
Due to difficulties in production, The Observer has been forced to re-arrange the publication for its newly-announced TV magazine. The TV listings guide will now appear every Thursday in The t'bserver. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Jack Frischkom 
Ass't. Night Editor: Ann McCarry 
Layout: Tom Devine 
Day Editor: Jim Rosini 
Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips 
Copy Reader: Greg Aie_llo 
Typists: Mary Romer, Steve Roper, Tom 
Modglin, John Flannigan, Chris Knecht 
Compugraphic: Joe Abell 
Night Controller: Howard Halle 
~~nesbury 



Dan't Ask Me )' The Inoperable Exam 
~~~, larry weaver 
.. I doubt that anyone at Notre Dame really minds reading, studying, and going to class. It's those exams that bother us. The events of last summer indicate, however, _that we need no longer incriminate our­selves by our own ignorance and stupidity. The Senate Watergate Hearings have shown us just how to deal with the most troublesome examinations. Just clip the following column, and follow its example on your next bluebook: 
I might state at the outset, professor, that I appear at this Notre Dame examination while under considerable mental duress, without recourse to counsel, and with too little time to formulate a viable defense. It remains my firm and continuing belief that these examinations will unduly disrupt my opportunity for a fair and equitable adjudication of my academic abilities. Nonetheless, I do intend to answer fully and completely all questions put to me at this point in time. 
I notice that your first question deals with the relationship of Robert Browning to Elizabeth Barrett. Might I point out to the examiners that I am not perhaps the best witness as concerns the interpersonal relationships of these two alleged individuals'? In point of fact, I do not recollect any meetings or conversations, telephone or otherwise, with either Barrett or Browning. Nor, and I want to try to hit all four bases on this, would I include either of these individuals in that dedicated group of young men and women who surround and accompany me in my dormitorial lodgings, or in my favorite spot <and I use the term advisedly) at the library. I would also point out that published reports appear to indicate that both Barrett and Browning attained their highest peaks of productivity in another time framework altogether. I could, therefore, provide no information from a time framework of which I bear no direct responsibility, that is to say, before I was born. 
I disagree violently with the operating premise of your next question, as I understand it. If I may invite the professor's attention to his own statement, and I quote, " ... building on class discussions of September lOand 12... " Well, and I believe the record will bear me out on this, at that point in time I was not present, that is to say absent from, class. I could in no sense, then, recollect any specific knowledge of the intelligence provided in the regular classes of September 10 through 12. 
Now, there has been some question as to my absence from class on those specific dates. As you know, and as I believe the record shows, I pleaded illness at the time. Recent evidence which has come to light allows me to amend this version, that is to say, declare it inoperable. In point of fact, I spent the two dates in question with my girlfriend in Grosse Pointe, Michigan. The illness to which I alluded is merely an ongoing process which is neither more or less viable at any specific point in time. This illness point was just something we threw on the stoop to see if the cat would pick it up, but the cat stayed on the fence, and I welcome the opportunity to clarify the record. 
Now, and let me nip this in the bud before the bees come around, there might appear to be an argumentative point in favor of the notion that I should have allowed myself the liberty of reading and studying the class notes of one of my more studious compatriots. This was an option I decided at an early point in time not to exercise. I might point out that I consider the class notes of each student to be private and confidential, and the impropriety of utilizing these notes far over­shadows the necessity of presenting the facts on any comparitively petty examination. If I was to view the class notes in question before one particular examination, how could my classmates be assured that I would not demand a viewing of the notes after each subsequent visit to Gross Pointe'? As you can see, we have a question here of mixed priorities and inexpeditious precedents, and the whole idea just doesn't wash. 
That concludes my answers for the examination questions. I would, however, like to make a final statement. I would propose that these examinations be discontinued, so that we can all m<.ve onto something more important, such as frisbee tossing, and attaining the seat nearest the window in a classroom. I believe it would be most expeditious, therefore, to leave the entire question of grading procedures in the context of the registrar's office, where it belongs. Really, what's your game plan in all of this'? For all I know, you could be lining your pockets with Mexican money. I mean, is this your idea of protective reaction'? 
qarry trudeau 
f/,4/ 11/ll 
1HAT'5 

•



mUSIC••• 
pure prairie league 
Weclnesct.y, September 12, 1f73 the observer 
5 

Pure Prairie League, a talented but un­fortunately little-known country-rock band, will give a free concert this Saturday evening at 8:00 p.m. at Stepan Center, sponsored by the Student Union. The group consists of Craig Fuller, who's the chief songwriter and performs on guitar, bass, and vocals, George Ed Powell on guitar and vocals, and William Frank Hinds on drums. They have been together approximately three years and in that time have put together two albums with a third presently in the works. Their music is easily iden­tifiable with the fine brand of music exemplified by Poco, the Eagles, etc., during the past few years. 
Bustin' Out 
Their latest album, entitled Bustin' Out is :::.pleasant blend of soft countryish ballads, a little rock, and some just plain good-time music. All of the material on this album, with the exception of "Jazzman," is com­posed by the group. 
Soft stuff 
The album is predominated by the soft stuff. "Jazzman" (previously recorded by Tom Rush on Wrong End of the Rainbow) is a pretty country tune featuring some nice steel and acoustic guitar work. "Angel," one of seven Craig Fuller compositions, is much of the same with some nice harmony. 


The second side of the album opens with two songs rolled into one. "Falling in and Out of Love" begins with some David Crosby­esque 12-string and is predominated by finger-style guitar and soft harmonies. 
"Arnie" is just a simple country tune, almost over-simplistic in the rhythm and guitar, but it is enjoyable all the same. "Amie'"ends with the chorus of "Falling in 
and Out of Love." 



cot stevens 
Don't trust your local disc jockey when it comes to reviewing Cat Stevens albums. He's liable to tell you gross untruths, as did one in South Bend <who shall remain nameless) who scooped me that "Foreigner," the Cat's latest, was "gim­micky and disappointing." 
"One whole side is one song-he calls it a 'suite,"' the platter pusher informed me rather haughtily. 
Well, 'that suite' is one of the best cuts off any new album around. Fortunately Cat is one fine musician who (unlike Elton John) hasn't sold out to the campy rock revival. 
Angel No. 9 is the group's contribution to rock. The intro is a Faces -type riff which moves to a good combination of countryish vocal and rock background. 
This album doesn't have any real bum­mers but there are a few songs that don't really fit. "Leave My Heart Alone" is sort of gimmicky with wah-wah guitar, rock 'n roll rhythm, and gospel vocal background. The group tries to incorporate too many 
Instead, he continues the fine progression­beguninMona Bone Jakon. 
His music seems to mature with every album. Musically, "Foreigner" is far more innovative than any of his previous offerine:s. 
The unique rhythmic patterns which always made eat's songs distinctive are a high point, especially in the Foreigner Suite. 
Comparisons are usually disputable, but the intensity that rythm lends to his music is reminiscent of Bela Bartok's earthy, primeval stuff. 
He manipulates them to create incredibly quick shifts of mood, but with such skill that they are credible. "Ya can't dance to it," they'd say on American Bandstand, but you can't stay still, either. 
Foreign flirtations 
Cat has dabbled in his native Greek music, but in "Foreigner" he flirts with several modes. He borrows the best themes from past songs and takes up where they left off, developing them just a bit farther. (Listen for the snatches of "Sad Lisa" toward the end of the suite.) "100 I Dream" from side 2 has country and western overtones. The album was recorded in Jamaica, and that country's influence is pervasive. You could almost bossa nova to "Later." Somehow this melting pot does retain a fair amount of consistency but it's hard to say where, except that none of the 

DR. BUTZ's 
STARVING MAN'S 
T>lET 
Pll~~E I ~EOFLESS 
lESS OF LESS
li ­
LEMT
lii. 
NOTIUNG





rr ­
lfSS THAN
Y. ­
Cf!
<<)t.p.~-6:11"~­
-"""Mt!s" Sl'~n:;: 
'WE HOPE EVENTUALLY TO GET YOU TO THE STAGE WHERE YOU WON'T NEED FOOD ANY MORE.' 
pat small I I 
I diversified things in this one song. j "Calle Me, Tell Me" and particularly 
I
"Boulder Skies" are fairly good songs but 
l
the inclusion of Mick Ronson's string 
~ 
arrangements tend only to detract rather 
I
than enhance the songs' moods. As a matter of fact, it gives the songs an undesirable 

I Glen Campbell effect. i The group is blessed with a number of I talented sidemen. AI Brisco, the steel I player, is present throughout most of the 
I 
album and his find leads add much the 
I 
group's basic sound. Michael Connor's 
l
piano playing complements the group well, 
l
especially on "Boulder Skies." 
I I
One problem 
j 
~
The only apparent problem this group has 

is that their overall sound is quite similar to I other contemporary groups in this field-the I Eagles, Poco, the now defunct Byrds, and I <in the harmonies) America for example. j One song, "Early Morning Riser," could 
l 

easily be the sister song to the Eagles j"Tequila Sunrise." However, the age of 
I
both the group and this album would make 
I
any similarities between themselves and 
j

some of the aforementioned bands (re-­Eagles) purely coincidental. l 
So, if one enjoys good, original country­I rock, in the Poco-Eagles genre, then its free I Saturday night at Stepan. But if one doesn't like this sort of thing, it would probably be better to stay away and let country-rock enthusiasts have their night. 

maria gallagher 
new songs could have appeared on his earlier LP's. 
In "Foreigner", Cat also seems slightly to modify his treatment of a theme. Whereas in past albums his rhythms were expressed in staccato bursts of energy, they are most continuous in the Foreigner Suite. 
Cat has said that the suite was not a preplanned opus; it was written in fragments but he considers it one song. Lyrically, it is extremely fragmented, and the music serves an important role in drawing the disjoint elements together. It makes easy listening, but a reading of the lyrics leaves one with overall disap­pointment. They are highly subjective, a Joycean excursion with an occasional clever turn, but would hardly qualify as literary or even comprehensible. The music can stand alone and, in many cases, the instrumental interludes are the best part of the album. Cat should brush up on his poetry, though. 
More instruments 
On "Foreigner," Cat also departs from theold in that he incorporates more in­struments. The choral backup appears again along wth some new musicians. Jan Roussel's string arrangements are out­standing. Cat also produced the album himself, in addition to doing the writing and cooperating with the arranging. 
It's too bad the suite leads off the album­because it is so impressive that it eclipses everything afterward. Side 2 could almost 
.. 
be termed filler alongside the suite, although the songs really do grow on you if you keep listening. 
In "The Hurt," am radio's "best of album" choice, Cat reverts back to the old rhythmic form punctuated with frequent pauses. It's very similar to "Wide World." Lyrically, it's the best song on the album­whicL ~gain indicates the below-average quality of the writing, since it's nothing great. 
The introduction of "How Many Times" is a fwler--slow and easy piano sets you up for Brook Benton, and Cat even does a fair stylistic imitation of him. As far as words go, however, it's all beensaid before. 
Rock audition 
Cat Stevens with a wawa pedal'? Sounds unlikely, but "Later" could be Cat's audition for a rock group. It's an interesting piece, with some unexpected shifts of theme, mood, instruments, and rhythm, and the violin accompaniment takes the hard edge off it. 
All in all, the album is well done, but steel yourself for a departure from the Teaser and the Firecat and Tea for the Tillerman un­derstatement. Diehards won't like the new embellishments, but the sincere listener will recognize them as growth rather than gimmicks. · 

Wednesday,· September 12, 1973
the observer 
Dugan describes AAUP role 
by Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporter 
"The AAUP is a defender of individuals; academic members have the ability to speak out on delicate matters, and doing this in such a way that they are free from repercussions of the ad­ministration," said economics professor Dennis Dugan. As chairman of the local AAUP he 
emphasized that the organization has a fine tradition of defending academic freedom. 
During the summer months the AAUP organized its executive committee and discussed im­portant issues, ranging from the p_urposes of the AAUP to equal nghts of faculty members, said 

Dugan. 
Frizbee fly-off contest 

at carney 
by Mary Kay Baron Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame's first official Frisbee Champ will be determined tonight at the Carnival '73's "Frisbee Fly-Off Contest," to begin at 5 p.m. near the WRBR frisbee booth, located east of the flagpole on the South Quad. Sponsored by WRBR-FM in con­junction with the Notre Dame Student Government, the frisbee booth will be full of free frisbees. 
The Individual Events Com­petition will lead-off the night's activities with the M.T.A. (most Lime aloft). Distance and Ac­curacy Contests. Individual events champs are to be named before Father Hesburgh addresses the student body. Following his speech, activities will resume and the Gut's Frisbee Contest will make its debut. 
Everyone is encourageq to 

tonight 
particioate since there will be no losers and great prizes. For the Guts Frisbee teams, students must organize to compete in groups consisting of between 2 and 8 players. Yesterday's Observer may be consulted for the rules and more detailed information. 
The individual events champ and the winning Guts Frisbee Team will receive official Notre Dame Frisbee Team shirts (if plans materialize), so they can represent Notre Dame at the Great Frisbee Fly-In which will be held at Ayr­Way, Town and Country on Sun­day, September 30. Non-winners are invited to attent the Fly-In where they can get a second chance to display their frisbee abilities. 
What's next? H-Man answers, "I've got plans to talk to the proper administrators in order to have frisbee classified as a varsity sport." 
Food service feedback: 
South Dining Hall faster 
by Paul Young Staff Reporter 
An overwhelming majority of students favor the improvements made at the South Dining Hall, it was learned in an Observer survey. Food Service Director Edmund •r. Price is pleased with the new system and hasn't yet found a dissatisfied student. He attributes these results to hard work, good planning and the new scramble system.
The scramble system employed in the South Dining Hall has been used succesSfully at other in­stitutions all over the world. Here at Notre Dame it has opened two additional servin~ lines to students as well as rem .ving all serving lines from the dining room, thereby considerably cutting down on the noise in his area. 
The system seems to be working, according to Price. Last Friday at noon a young lady was timed from the moment she entered the dining hall, passed through the scramble area and reached her seat. The entire process took only five minutes on one of the busiest days of the week at the South Dining Hall. 
Last year an equivalent test under the old system would have lasted ten to fifteen minutes. Therein lies the main advantage of the new system. The system has also reduced the noise level in 
the newly air conditioned dining hall. 




LEARN TO JUMP 

..,.
.,. . 
.··---······ 
'
MCPC lnc.'Skydiving center 
located 15 min. North East of N.D. 3 miles North of Edwardshurg, Mich. for more information· call (616) 445-S251 
One of the topics studied was the academic manual regarding governance of the University, added Dugan. The newly revised manual, not yet published, states general principles of governance and interactions between different groups of the University. Dugan feels a need for the faculty to
discuss implications of the r~-:-_____________::.:.:.:.:::.=.:__________~ 
document because it affects their t~ working lives and their com·

mitm en t to Notre Dame. ::;i!:::::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:::::~:~:=:~:::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:::::::::~:~ Another relevant issue which the· li! H H IJi? :m! Artist Supplies i~i! Cards 
AAUP has been investigating is the ~~ ~ ~ ·· ·· 



Ei~?"~~~~::~~::T~~f; I!I!~ A,· t,~.:.,~:.!,.:~!;!~.;~j 
Books 

For one reason, there is a lesser ~~ Magazines amount of faculty but more I mini-mall students in a class. Thus, the town & country 2340 miracle lane Art faculty workload is increased. shopping center mishawaka, indiana 46544 supplies 

BICYCLE CENTER 
Secondly, he said, although '·-;::================~==========~~~~
tuition has been increased by a fair percentage, the faculty salary mcrease was a minimal two to three percent. Where does the excess tuition money go? The AAUP is now researching into this problem. 
Another current problem Dugan emphasized is the lack of women on the University faculty staff. There are forty-five women presently on the campus faculty, one-half of whom are library staff. There are twenty women in the classroom position, ten part time 
Before: 
I•">



I....
If 
and ten full time. Of the full time members, one is associative professor and nine are assistant professors. 
Dugan relates the lack of female faculty to several reasons. "The University has not been ac­comodating in dealing with women," he claims. 
Participation by the women on committees is relatively small. Dugan contends that the University has a commitment to coeducation and to its women. Thus, the female population on the faculty should commit themselves to full utilization in various ac­tivities. 
During: ·~.
I 


I 

Student Billing Service 
makes Sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your residence hall room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm resi­dents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Office. Talk it up. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call 234-5088 . Or you can drop in at our Business Office at 225 S. Main Street. Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
@ Indiana Bell 

1437 Portage Ave. 
Phone 287-1623 
Ask for student discounts 10 SP££0 RACERS Hours: Daily 9:30-5:30 Mon. till 8:30 OIIIIAIID FOR JIIIEDIATf 
D£UYERY!
We service all makes 


:•:• 
I 

------------------~---------~-----­
Wednesday, September 12, 1973 
the observer 
7 

Register your car 
Traffic tickets multiply 
parking a registered car in the car out to someone else is still
by David Kaminski 
wrong lot. responsible for where it is
Staff Reporter 
"For instance," Grimmer said, parked." Grimmer added. 
"it would cost a student $10 for "The best advice I can give isWith more than 10,000 traffic 
parking overnight in the Stepan that a student register his car, and
tickets issued last year by Notre 
Center lot." then make sure he is familiar with 
Dame Security, Dave Grimmer, 
If a car has received five tickets the campus traffic regulations,"
Campus Judicial Board coor­
for the same violation security will Grimmer said. It is important that
dinator, warns students: 
tow the car away. The student students follow what the manual
"Register your car, and read the 
then pays not only all the amassed says, not what someone else even
traffic regulations manual." 
r'"T'h;~~c;;rr;gr;;t;~~,
tickets but also the towing charge. a security guard, interpre~ it to
Cars without registration 
"The most frequent violation is say."
stickers parked in university Jots 
just not registering a car, With more than 3,000 cars
are fined $50. A $10 fine is assessed 
especially wth off-campus registered with security, and with
for parking on university property 
students. And the off-campus the memory of better than $20,000
without permission. 
student only pays $10 for his in traffic fines paid to Students
In addition to paying the fine the 
I Jazz Festival I
registration, compared with the Accounts last year, Grimmerowner then has to pay the $25 for the on-campus student," hopesthat everyone is sufficientlyregistration fee to legally park his 
Grimmer said. warned to follow the campuscar on campus. 
"Also, a student who lends his traffic regulations.
A car owner is fined $10 for 
Activities triumph
Senior class plans 
(continued from page 2) 
were represented Monday night, compared to 80 or 85 last year.
trip to Miami game 
One organizaton, Neighborhood 
Study Help Program, enjoyed 
greater success this year. Last 
provided at the Twelve Caesar.; a year only 30 students signed to by Judy Rauenhorst tutor South Bend grade school
beach front hotel in Miami. A
'>tafi •teporter children. "This year we signedparty is slated to celebrate the first 
day arrival. about 200 people for our tutoring program," said Mary Ann Mc­The Notre Dame-Miami football Carthy, co-mdinator of Neigh­game will highlight this year's Friday may be spent on the borhood Study Help. 
Senior Class trip to Miami, beach or at Disneyworld. The $25 Michael Maguire , of CILA, andFlorida, said Jerry Samaniego, Disney World fee includes tran­Lucy McCoullagh, of Headstart,
Senior Class President. November sportationto and fromOrlando, the 
were pleased with student
29-December 2, the trip is open to admission ticket and nine ride 
all Notre Dame and St. Mary's tickets. Game day, Saturday,will response. Both attributed Ac­·:·: contact Kenneth Lee 8588 :·:· 
tivities Night success to good
students at a cost of $160, with an be free forrelaxationwith pre-game 
organization and good location in
option to spend a day at cocktails before the 8 p.m. kick-off. 
LaFortune Ball Room.
Disneyworld for $25. Ed Garbarino and Chris Devcich 
Notre Dame Rowing Club had 90
The three day trip is limited to organized the three day trip with 
sign-ups,a great increase from last 
160 students on a first come. first First Bank and Trust Co. and the 
year. "Since approximately 30
serve basis, adde<l Samaniego. J'JI Notre Dame Travel Bureau. 
I,,"~CLAs=siFfEnr,·Aosw.=ml
girls signed up, we are considering
transportation and the game ticket 
a girl's crew," said Frank
are included in the total pric<~. A Loughery of the Rowing Club.
$25 non-refundable deposit is being collected at the Notre Dame Travel Bureau and is due by 
Bicycle registration
Friday, September 28. (conti'!ued from page 1) Under the present itinerary, 
buses will depart from the Circle -This information will then be filed in Computer Gard's national after classes on Thursday, computers with terminals in most major cities in additio;; to the Notre November 29, for Chicago, where Dame security files. The biggest advantage il' this Pears noted was students will catch a direct flight to that the registration would be cross-referenced by serial nu~ber manufacturer and owner's name. ' 
Miami. Accomodations will he 
The student will receive an identification card to keep with him and a sticker to place on the bike's frame. Singleton .:;aid that if someone does>~ • know the serial number or
Isis Art Gallery 
cannot find it, he should bring the bike itself to the booths. If there is no serial number on the bike, he said that metal dies would be 
available to stamp a number on it. The Computer Gard registration would be in effect for five years he 
An organizational meeting will added. ' be held Friday at 7:30p.m. in the Isis Gallery for students i terested i art or in working for the gallery. 
The Isis Gallery, a student art gallery backed by the Cultural 
to hold meeting 

SENIOR BAR
Arts Commission will be opening around the first of October. Tentative plans have been made 
REGULAR HOURS: WEDNESDAY 7-2 
for student art shows, exchange programs with other colleges, and 
FRIDAY 4-2 
outside speakers. 
Happy hour 4-6
The Isis Gallery is located in the northwest corner of the old 
16 oz. Beer 
251
fieldhouse. 
SATURDAY 7-2 
301 s . .flichiCift Sl I ~ 211-.7100 
EXTRA HOURS ON HOME
·'IJ;J!ll!'. ., . ..
.
.. ' ,· ­
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS: THURSDAY 7~2
:~~ . EAT~E 
SATURDAY 10 a.m. -Kickoff and 
NOW SHOWINGi! 
immediately following game till 2 a.m. 
2nd. WEEK 
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT. 
THIS FRIDAY H·H· $PECIAL 
Bloody Marys · regular 75 cents Friday 4-6 2/$1.00
.ilL 
THIS SATURDAY HALTER NIGHT
tpilis 
®
Girls (only!!) wearing halters may NO ••• u.... 
Umted 
, .""'"'" Art1sts purchase 2 whiskey sours for 1/2 price. 6 pm -9 pm
Please bring I.D. 
BAR CARDS AND SHIRTS open 6:45 
STILL ON SALE 
..____"Tan o"-7:00-9:15 
SCHOLASTIC 
Organizational Meeting 
8 PIT! SCHOLASTIC office Wed. Nte 4th floor LaFortune All old staff members urged to attend; 
a// newcomers welcome 
April 4 • 7 
Needs Workers 
To apply come to Cultural Arts Commission offices, 4th floor LaFortune 12:00 -1:00 Sept. 12-14 & 17-19 
or 

WANTED FOR SALE 
Wanted: Home for Labrador Custom hand made rustic pup. Owner will feed, clean furniture Prices low-no mid­up. Will pay. Call 283·1628 dlwe man. Also waterbeds. Call for appointments. 234­Girl's Group Home needs 4654. 
mature reliable couples (preferably without children ( Women's CCM ice skates 10'12. TO ACT AS SUBSTITUTE Masterworks portable radio, 
HOUSEPARENTS ON Exo!llent condition. Call 6426. 
WEEKENDS. Paid position. Apply to Mrs. Carol Wilken at 1967 van. Ford Econoline. Shag 233-9491. carpeting, naugahide bench, 
Luma dome, good condition. Need 2 general admission tix to phone 232-4335. Northwestern game. Call 283­3694. 
Vivatar 98-P close ups case, 

filter $175. 1939. Call evenings. HOUSEMATE needed to share furnished house with two For Sale-1965 Chevrolet Sedan 
seniors. Excellent location, 6 cyl. stick. New paint. new large living room 2 bedrooms, tires. Dependable, kitchen. Transportation to economical. $495.00 Call 233­
campus available. 420 St. 1615 after 5:00pm. Vinc~nt. Call 232-5312. 
Can't find textbooks? See Needed: 4 general admission PANDORA'S BOOKS 602 N. St. tix to USC or Michigan State Louis at South Bend Ave. We games. Will pay well. Call have a 3-day special order 6727. 
service on new and used tex. 

tbooks. New and used books Wanted : 3 or 5 speed bike. Call bought sold and traded 8301 or see Brent at 20 
Pangborn. Need a car? See John Voll '73 at Gates Chevrolet in South Wanted: experienced portrait Bend for great buys on new and 
artist to do portrait sketches on used cars and trucks. 288-1421. premises. Phome Book Shack 256-0111 
NOTICES 

Need 4 Northwestern tix Will person who walked off desperate! y together if with Olympia box marked with possible. Call 7835 now. name 'Montenegro' at storage 
auction please call Jim at 1021. Need fourth man for N D Apts. Reward offered for return of its 232-8671 contents. No questions asked. 
Needed: 4 general admissions ARTISTIC STUDENTS $25 
tix to any home game except prize for best sketch. InquireAir Forcpe. Call John 282-1568. at Nickies. 
Roommate needed ND Apts. Will do typing Themes 832 N D Ave. Apt 2A. Call 233-manuscripts, letters. Call233· 1302. 
6909 

FOR RENT 
Need someone willing to ex. change rooms. Call Matt1or 3 room apt. 10 min drive to McKool. Rm. 239 Lyons HallND. Phone 288-9533. 

7921' 

6 bedroom house completely Need money fast? Morrisseyfurnished close to ND. Call 234­loan Fund is now open Borrow
9364. 
up to !150.00. Monday thru Friday 11:15-12:15. Basement3 Bedroom house furnished, 2 

of La Fortune Student Center. 

car garage utilities linens kitchenware furnished 5 
LOST AND FOUND minutes from campus. 233-1374 233-3403 
Lost: small gold cross on chain with chip diamond. Sen. 

4 students wanted to share timental value. Lost week ago.
house just off S. Michigan St. 
Contacl Pat at 7861 or Kelli at 

All utilities paid-reasonable 
4556 

291-5869. Found; watch. Call Mike at
RIDES WANTED 
2151. 

Ride needed to Detroit or Lost: one pair of sunglasses with Grosse Point this Fri. Please wire frames. Lost somewhere on call Chris at 6586 SMC campus Monday. If found, 
call Maria at 4027 or 1715. 

r-------------~-------------------~------------------------------------~----------------~------------­
Wednesday, September 12, 1973
the observer
8 
by John Fineran 
·Success in any athletic event depends a great deal on the ability to adapt to adversity. The kind of adversity which usually separates the good teams from the bad is spelled i-n-j-u-r-i-e-s. 
Last seasGn, Notre Dame's fortunes suddenly took a turn for the worse one October afternoon when frosh tackle sensation Steve Niejaus tore up his knee. What followedcould havequalified for a full chapter in Ripley's Believe It of Not. Injury after injury depleted the Irish defensive front four, until, on January 1st, Notre Dame had lost three games, the most ever under Ara Parseghian. 
Now that kind of nightmarish adversity is spreading across the scrimmage line, and wrecking havoc in line coaches Wally Moore and Brian Boulac's plans for a successful 1973 season. 
Meanwhile, receiver coach Mike Stock has problems, though less serious, of his own It is spelled c­o-n-s-i-s-t-e-n-c-y, and the lack of it among his reserve receivers is beginning to worry him. 
The line trouble all started on September 1st. The Irish were going through a routine scrim­mage, when suddenly tri-captain Frank Pomarico, a pre-season All­America pick at guard, fell to the ground, writhing in severe pain. 'I:he diagnosis, as you well know, was torn ligaments of the ankle, and Pomarico's leg was put 
by Mindie Bright 
A woman's tennis tournament will be played on Saturday mor­ning at St. Mary's to determine the 12 members of the SMC tennis team. 
Initial registration was held Sunday night in Stapleton Lounge, and last years's co-captains, Linda Conner and Meurisse Keenan, reported a heavy turnout for the signing-up session. 
Tourney appliations will be accepted until midnight tomorrow, and those interested in par­ticipating should contact Miss Conner (5431) or student coach Juan Manigault (272-2445). 
The tourney will begin at 9 a.m. Saturday at the St. Mary's courts, and practices will be held every day this week from 3:30 to 6:30 
p.m.
... 
Father Ned Reidy and Ed Brown are the team's other coaches, and they have planned a full year of in a cast for 4-6 weeks. 
Later that same afternoon, Ed Bauer, who was expected to give the Irish depth at tight end, tackle and guard, caught a pass and ran upfield before being tackled. The force of the hit was such that Bauer is now laid out for the year with torn ligaments. 
Last week, team captain Dave Casper, another All-America candidate at tight end, tore muscles in his shoulder. He donned his pads yesterday for the first time since. Similarly, reserves Steve Quehl (tight end and tackle) and Tom Bolger <guard) have suffered painful injuries. 
Moore and Boulac have done a great deal of juggling, almost enough to classify themselves as magicians. 
"The injuries have hurt us," Boulac remorses. "You hate to see anyone hurt, especially your key personnel." 
Tight end figures to be the strongest position on the Irish offensive line, if and when Casper (6-3, 252) and junior Quehl (6-4, 238\ return. Right now, the if does not concern Boulac, the when does. 
Both should be ready for the opening game 10 days hence against Northwestern, and in an emergency, either could move over to tackle. 
A pair of juniors continue to man the tackle spots on the line, but Boulac sees a weakness to his back-up strength with the injuries to Bauer and Quehl. 
competition which includes tournaments with schools in In­diana, Illinois, Ohio, and Michigan, and practices on indoor courts in South Bend during the winter. 
"Our main goal," said coach Manigault, "is to establish a big­time tennis program at St. ·Mary's College." 
Sailors meet 
The Notre Dame sailing club in the process of recruiting new members. The club, one of ND's 
oldest club sports, is now beginning its 26th year of operation. 
The Irish Sailors meet every 
Wednesday night at 6:30 p.m. in 
room 204 of the Engineering 
Building. Formal practices are held every Tuesday and Thursday with instruction given on Monday and Wednesday afternoons. 
Those juniors, left tackle Steve Neece (6-3, 245) and right tackle Steve Sylvester (6-4, 248), enjoyed exceptional springs, Neece in particular winning a Hering Award for Most Improved Of­fensive Lineman. Both appear set to start against the Wildcats. 
Senior Dennis Lozzi (6-3, 257) and junior Tom Laney (6-2, 248), normally a guard, are the second learners right now, and both ac­cording to Boulac are "working hard," Sophomore Robin Weber, now working at number-one tight end, could answer Boulac's tackle problem when Casper and Quehl return. 
Moore temporarily has solved the problem of Pomarico's ab­sence with the insertion of senior DanMorrin(li-3, 240) at left guard. 
"Dan will give us a good replacement," Moore said. "He is always trying, willing to give 100 per cent, and he knows his assignments." 
The right side of the center again wil: be manned by Gerry DiNardo. The 6-1, 242 lb. junior guard is enjoying an excellent pre-season, and could rate All-America now that Pomarico is out. 
Moore, like Boulac, is concerned with his reserve strength, which has suffered from the injuries. Healthier days at the opening of fall pradice: Frank Pomarico and With Laney moving over to tackle, Dave Casper huddle with head coach Ara Parseghian. 
Moore was left with only senior been just as pessimistic as his · '~ catches for 369 yards and 4guard Tom Bolger as an ex­coaching cohorts. "Things are not touchdowns>to second team withperienced reserve. However, as well as expected; he said. Kevin Doherty (6-0, 185), punterBolger <6-2, 239>suffered a pinched 'We must be more active overall Brian's younger brother and the nerve in his shoulder during last the offensive concepts." leading receiver for the 1972 juniorSaturday's scrimmage. Freshman One player who seems to be varsity (26-292-2). Stock foreseesEldon Moore (6-2, 220) is un­encompassing well all the con-all three seeing action this season.
dergoing a crash course at guard cepts-blocking, pass routes and So even though the offensive line while the position is depleted. 
receiving-is junior Pete Dem-and receivers have their problems, 
If there is one really deep 
merle. "Pete has picked up where Notre Dame still will field a first­position on the line which does not he left off in the spring," Stock rate club. Coaches Boulac, Moore, worry Moore, it is center where said. "He is blocking well and and Stock are not that concerned,senior Mark Brenneman appears catching the ball excellently." yet. In the words of Boulac, "Weto be replacing the departed Dave Consequently, he has pushed last havt: the kids who want todo theDrew. 
year's starter and leading job. Because of th'\s, we'll have a"Last spring, we didn't know receiver, senior Willie Townsend good team."
about Brenneman," Moore said. 
"He was coming off a back injury last season." 
'.'Well, Mark has come along strong in both the spring and pre­season," Moore went on. 
Senior Joe Alvarado (6-1, 239) will back up Brenneman and 
OBSERVERhandle the deep snaps on kick situations for the Irish. Juniors Andy Rohan (6-1, 234) and Jack O'Donnell (6-1, 235) and freshman 
SPORTS
Vince Klees (6-4, 220) give the Irish more depth and strength in the middle. 
Receiver coach Mike Stock has 
Cagers-coaches softbnll 
Shumate, Peter Crotty, Gary TicketmanagerDon Bouffard has Head Basketball Coach (and Novak, Dwight Clay, Gary announc~d that tickets will be $0.00
sometimes Sports Promoter) 
Digger Phelps announced the Brokaw, Roger Anderson, Tom in advance and $0.00 at the door. In over
classic confrontation this campus Hansen, Myron Schuckman, Tom other words, if you can get 
has been waiting for: Digger's Varga, Greg Schmelzer, "Geek" there, you're in there! 
Frosh vs. Shue's Mates. 
Wolbeck and the Crown Prince of Early Notre Dame odds (as set 
Basketball, "Hawk" Stevens. by Fin the Irishman) rate thisThe softball hiliarityw·iuoccur on Umpiring the game will be game funnier than the annual ND­Sauturday,September 15th, at 1:30 
Hon. Michael DeCicco. SMC An Toastal game. Cartier Field. Phelps' squad will consist of 
p.m. on the varsity diamond of 
Trojans top first AP poll
himself, his assistants, Dick DiBi­
aso and Frank McLaughlin, this As expected, ·defendin~ Notre Dame Stadium one weekyear's freshman players, and champion USC received a majority from Saturdi!Y·
Roger 0. Valdiserri, Notre 
of the first-place ballots in the first 
Dame's Sports Information 
Associated Press College Football
Director. first AP Poll
Poll. The Trojans, who finished
Opposing them will be John Asso<'lated Press
first 1972with an overalll2-0 ma:-k, The Top. Twenty with hrsl·pl"<'r meet tough Arkansas this Saturday ''otes in parentheses. season records and total points Points tabulated on
Tennis try-outs night in Los Angeles' Memorial 
basis oi21J.IJ!.IIHI·12·10.9-8-7-6-5·4-J.2·1
Coliseum. The Razorbacks will be W·L·T Pts Sixty-two candidates, including looking to avenge last sesasons's I. So. California (49) 1·0.0 1.168 four women, showed up for the 1973 opening 31-lO'loss to John McKay's %. Nebraska (8) . 140 1.121 
3. Ohio State (2). 0·0.0 838
Nttre Dame tennis team tryouts group. 
4. Texas. 0.0.0 819 
held last weekend. Over two 5. Michigan (I) 0.0.0 683 
Nebraska, which won the

hundred sets were played during 6. Alabama 0.0.0 616 
7. Penn State (I) · 0.0.0 571
National Chamopiobahip in 1970
the double elimination tournament. 
8. Notre Dame 0-0.0 436
and 1971, avenged its opening 0.~0
All te women contestants lost in 9. Tennessee 433 
defeat of last season to UCLA with 10. Colorado &-0.0 294the early rounds. Betsy Fallon of 
11. Oklahoma ft.t.ft 248
an impressive 40-13 victory last
Grand Rapids advanced to the sec­12. Auburn f.0-0 237
Saturday, ·drew· eight •first-place 13. Arizona State 0.0-ft 228ond round of consolations before ballots and second place. The 14. Florida 0.0.0 133
losing. 15. Louisiana State 0.0.0 85
Cornhuskers are idle this week. 
Since the Irish lost only captain 15. UCLA 0.1·8 84 Rob Schefter by graduation, the 17. No. Carolina St 1;0-t 81 
Ohio State, picked high in many 18. Houston . 0-fi.O 68tourney battlers are contending for 
19. North Carolina 0.0.0 26 two spots on the 1973 Irish squad. 28. Texas Tech &-11-0 25
pre-season polls, was rated third. 
The Buckeyes open up at home • Others receiving votes. hsted alpha·
There are also approximately 
against Minnesota, , a team bfticaDy: Air Force. Arkansas, Bos~oneight openings on the junior var­C&lleJ:e. Bowling Grt>en, Florida Stale. 
which could surprise many experts 
sity. Ge&rgia. G-gla Tecll. Idaho. Iowathis season. State, Maryland. Minnesota. Mississip­
Details for a "Second Chance" 
pi. Missouri. Nor1hem Illinois. Okla·tryout for those impressive losers NotreDamegot the number eight IIDAII Slate. Southern Methodist. Stan­will be posted today at the Court­lin. SyraCUSI!. Texas Alii, Tldane
nod this opening week. The Iriab, 
Wullillllon Sial•. l'ftl VirCJltja. .
ney Tennis Center. 
of course, meet Northwestern at 









