-~----~--~~-~ ~--~ 
On The Inside 
Place Bureau Schedule 
...see page 2 Homecoming ticket scandal 
...see page 3 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. X II, No. 21 Wednesday, October 3, 1973 
At Washington Hall 

GeOrge Plimpton speaks at ND 
by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 

George Plimpton shared his experiences as an amateur in a professional world with a capacity audience in Washington Hall last night. The noted author and editor of the Paris Review, who has im­personated athletes, musicians, actors, and comics emphasized the dream of every man to be a hero. 
"James Thurber once said that 93 per cent of the 

males in this country fell asleep at night striking out 
the New York Yankee line-up." Plimpton explained. 
He believes that every man wants to feel "that smug 
sense of satisfaction of being invovled in someone 
else's profession." 
"My-editor for Sports Illustrated went to bed each night beside his wife, sinking 60-foot putts," said Plimpton. "He never told her why he was doing all the body english." 
Beginnings 

Plimpton began his career as a participatory journalist during his college days on the staff of the Harvard Lampoon. As part of his initiation rites to join the staff, Plimpton had to run in the Boston Marathon. He entered the race-just behind the leader about one block from the finish line. 
"All of a sudden this guy who had been leading for miles heard the pounding of sneakers," Plimpton described. "He looked over his shoulder and there I was." 
Since graduating from college, Plimpton has assumed the roles of sports figures to give readers an idea of what it is like to be an athlete. His book Paper Lion is the story of his short career as a quarterback for the Detroit Lions. 
He explained that he had written to all the teams in the National Football League to ask if they would accept him as a last-string quarterback; the Lions were the only team to respond. _ 
Plimpton complained about his difficulties as a quarterback. He was too slow tcaccomplish hand-offs, too clumsy to avoid his own blockers and too confused 

Author Plimpton entertained the overflow crowd at Washington Hall Last Night 
to master "the strange coupling relationship" between the quarterback and his center. 
"Ifyou've never done that before (taken a snap from the center), you do"l't know where to put your hand. It's not one of those things you want to go wrong." 
Plimpton once pitched in an all-star baseball game at Yankee Stadium and forced Richie Ashburn and Willie Mays to hit pop-outs. "Of course," Plimpton admitted, "it is true that Willie Mays' pop-out was caught in center field." 
Plimpton's career as a Boston Celtic lasted but one game. Sent into the game by Celtic coach Bill Russell to replace Jack Havlicek, the Celtics were trailing the Atlanta Hawks by 15 points. Although his role in the action was nil, the Celtics came within 6 points of their opponents. When Havlicek replaced Plimpton, the Celtics went on to lose. 
"I remember going up to Russell in the locker room and I told him that I thought he made a tactical error. Russell didn't speak to me for about a week." 
Plimpton the Musician 
His most agonizing role according to Plimpton was not played in a sports arena, but in a concert hall as a percussionist for the New York Philharmonic and Leonard Bernstein. As a musician he was more con­scious of his mistakes. 
"If you made a mistake, what you did was destroy a work of art," Plimptom observed. "Mistakes are an inherent part of sports." 
"To match the Philarmonic in pure terror was something I did with the circus," Plimpton continued. As an aerialist for the Cole Brothers-clyde Beatty Circus, his stunt was to swing from one trapeze and be caught by an aerialist on another trapeze. Although his stunt found him in the protective net, Plimpton's ef­forts earned him the nickname "Flying Telephone Pole" after his six-foot four-inch frame. 
Future Plans 
George Plimpton's future plans include dabbling in hockey, as a goalie for the Boston Bruins. He also hopes to accept Hugh Hefner's invitation to photograph a centerfold for Playboy magazine. Commented Plimpton, "It js the only invitation I have acceptedwith some alacrity.~• 
When asked if he hoped to enter politics as an amateur, Plimpton recalled an offer President John Kennedy once made to him. 
"President Kennedy asked me if I wanted to run the country for a day. I said, 'Certainly, Mr. President.' So he picked the day and it was February 30." 
Faccenda addresses HPC on party rules 
by Kit Baron 
Staff Reporter 

Vice-President of Student M­fairs Dr. Phillip Faccenda clarified and summarized the guidelines for party rules at last night's HPC meeting, which convened at 6 p.m. in St. Edward's Chapel. 
Student Affairs has drafted guidelines distinguishing three, types of parties. The first type of party is the private party tha~·-is contained inside the private room. 

The second type is a party larger university to be signed. than a private room party but Speaking for 20 minutes and smaller than a hall party. A large answering questions for over a half hall party involving the hall staff an hour, Dr. Faccenda emphasized and residents is the third type of the great amount of corporate risk party. that the university is taking. Open 
Since the old policy was in-recognition that students drink consistant with the Student Mfairs now has never occurred in the situation, a new philosophy gives past. But Faccenda feels that it's impetus to a policy of enforceable better to plan events with the hall 
rules. The SLC has passed these guidelines and they are presently before the President of the staff "than to close our minds to what is obvious" and have events get out of control. 
More responsibility will be placed on the hall staff to decide what type of event will be held in hall. The hall rectors will play a large role in setting ground rules for hall events. 
"We want to help students and not control them," emphasized the vice-president of Student Mfairs. "We're taking risks and we want 
to get  involved.  We'll  sink  or  
swim together."  
Tracing  the  history  of  the  

guidelines back three years, Dr. Faccenda stated that prior to that time the university banned alcohol altogether. At the time, mindful of Indiana's 21-year old drinking law, the Students Mfairs Committee felt there was no way to authorize drinking on campus. 
A court decision derived from a case in Alabama added a new perspective to the severe rule. This court decision maintained that a university was not required to ascertain what the students chose to do in their private rooms, providing that their actions would not bring undue attention to that room. 

Subsequently, many N.D. students requested "the late night beer after a hard day's study." Granting their requests, the university permitted possession of alcoholic beverages in the private rooms.Then parties emerged and mushroomed to the extent that last year nearly every hall on campus violated the letter and spirit of the alcoholic rule. Thus, the necessity fo1 the Student Affairs Committee to restate the rules. In the process of restating the rules, the Com­mittee hoped to establish a uniform policy to which the students would abide and rewrite the alcoholic rule in view of present campus activities. 
When asked about Faccenda 's discussion, HPC President Fred Baranowski stated, "I was satisfied that Dr. Faccenda cleared up any questions that the hall presidents might have had. The hall presidents should now understand their responsjbilities to the st.llff and the students of the hall. I don't anticipate any problems in keeping within the guidelines." 
In other news it was announced that the co-ex meal program with St. Mary's will re--establi..;h star­ting Monday, October 8. Tickets will be allocated to the various halls on a regular basis using much the same system that was em­ployed last year by Student Government and the HPC. 
Several hall presidents ex­pressed discontent with present laundry service. Tardy laundry return and missing items were reported to be the biggest problems. The HPC will attempt to question a representative of the laundry service at next week's meeting. 
New presidents introduced at the meeting last night included Tom Porter from Grace Hall and Rich O'Conner from Pangborn Hall. 
Presidents were asked to submit lists of officers for the Ombudsman Service in order to facilitate communication between resi~nts and their officers. 
Climaxing the meeting, President Phil Byrne from Alumni Hall suggested that future meetings begin at 6:15 to permit interested students to attend. 
------~--------------~-----------~­
Wednesday, October 3, 1973
the observer 

Interview schedule set 
by Phyllis Mosley October 9 October 10 -11

Staff Reporter American hospital Supply Haskins & Sells-BBA in Acct.
The fall schedule for this year's Copration--B.M. in Bus. Ad., Lib. 
MBA with Acct. backgroundPlacement Bureau interview Arts or Sci. sessions begins this Monday, October 10 -11 -12October eighth. The Placement A+T+O+ lnc.--BBA in Acct. BS Bureau is set up to provide job in M.E. and M.E.I.O. 

Down Corning Corporation--BRAinterviews for seniors and in Acct. and Mkt. MBA with Acct.
graduate students with Ayr-Way Stores, lnc.-B in Lib. and Mkt. backgrounds. B,M. inrepresentatives of well-known Arts and Bus Ad. 
Chern. and Ch. E.

companies and universities. Anyone wishing to get involved W.T. Grant Company-All BBA October 11
in this program should first 
Travelers Insurance Company-All
complete a profile form which is 
Xeros Corporation--Any
BBA and MBA

available in the Placement Bureau background with strong interest inoffice, room 222, of the Ad­salesOctober 9 -10ministration Building. This should 
be done before October eighth. 
Rohn and Haas Company--B. M, D
Sign-ups for interviews are in room October 11 -12 
in Chern. and CN.E.
'Jffl of the Administration Building, the week preceding the interview. E.l. du Pont de Nemours & Co.­
October 10

The specifications of the employer BBA in Acct. MBA with Acct. .ihould be met before signing up. background
Foster Wheeler Corp.-B., M. in
Interviews will begin October 
Ch.E., M.E., E.E. and C.E.
eighth, 8:30a.m. in room 210. October 12 The fall schedule extends to 
ITT Telecommunications--B,M,D,
December 5. Each week the Ob­American Can Company--BBA in 
in E.E. with some computer
server will publish a listing of the Acct., Fin. and Mkt. Bs in CH.E.,
programming

companies to be represented a E.E., M.E., and M.E.I.O. week in advance. 
Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New
Interviews for week of October 8 Seidman & Seidman--BBA in Acct. 
York--B in Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. 
warld briefs 

Washington--President Nixon ordered rationing of wholesale home heating oil and propane gas Tuesday to make sure expec.ted short supplies this winter are evenly distributed to homes, hosp1tals, far­mers and other priority users. 
"This program will in no way generate a .greate~ ~uppl.y,''..Sa~d Interior Secretary Rogers C.B. Morton, who wlll adm~mster 1t. . It ~s to spread discomfort out, and we think we can spre~d 1t out so thmly 1t will not have a significant effect on the economy or hfe style." 
Vienna--Chancellor Bruno Kreisky told Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir Tuesday he will stick to his decision to close the transit camp for Soviet Jews en route to Israel unless it is placed under protection of the United Nations. 
United Nations--China, deriding the U.S.-8oviet detente, charged Tuesday the two superpowers are engaged in a fierce scramble in­volving aggression and subversion to dominate the world. In a 40 m~n~te ad~ress to the General Assembly, Chinese Vice-Foreign M1mster Ch1ao Kuanhau scoffed at talk of a global easing of tensions. 
Houston--The Skylab 2 astronauts said Tuesday they had several spats aboard their earth orbiting station. and one of the spacemen said he was too busy to take a shower the entire two months: But they said they had no psychological problems during man's longest space voyage. 
.. Christiansted, St. Croix, V.I.-Three more whites have been mur­dered on this racially tense Caribbean island, it was announced Tuesday on the eve of the U.S. National Conference of Lieutenant Governors. A black alien was charged with two of the killings of a pair of 22 year old schoolteachers. ' 
an campus laday 
12: 15p.m.-lecture, "serological evaluation of measles, mumps and rubella virus vaccines," dr. klaus schell, dow chemical co., room 102 lobund lab., coffee and sand. room 109 at 11:45. 
3:00p.m.--film, "civilization," to complement western civ., engineering aud., free. 
3:25p.m.--lecture, "the dynamics of chemical reactors," prof. rutherford aris, dept. chem. engineering and material science, u. of min­nesota, room 269, chem. eng. bldg. 
7:00p.m.--rosary, grotto, all are invited. 7:00p.m.--meeting, for all senior accounting majors, lib. aud. 
8:OOp.m .--lecture, modern language dept. sponsors dr. j.p. ebacher, little theater, moreau hall. 
8:00p.m.--film, "america," american scene lecture series, carroll hall,. madeleva. 8:15p.m.--recital, sue seid, organ, sacred heart church, free, 

at nd-smc: 


the distillery 
Liquor Store 
1723 South Bend 
272-9800 Open till 11 :00 Fri. & Sat. East on Edison-Take a left at the Linebacker·-200 yds. on left JIM & CHUCK .BOTH ALUMN'S We have ice cold wines. 
·Great for parties: VODKA OR Gl N. $8.98 for 1-2 gallon 
DISCOUNTS ON CASES OF LIQUOR & WINE 
Students 





rate at Hilton. 
I Send for your Student Identification Card and get a big break on rates at Hilton Hotels and Inns coast to 
·-----------------·I 
I I
coast. (Grad students 2nd faculty. too.) Just mail this
I I
coupon to Hilton Hotels Corp.. Travel Dept., National 
I Sales Div.. 9880 Wilshire Blvd.. Beverly Hills. Cal. I 90210. Then come visit the Hiltons.
I I I
I Name____________________________________ 
I

1 Address___________________________________ 
I 

I City___________________State_______Zi p_____ 
I 

I College_______________________Ciass of 19_____ I 
I I 
October 8 Dana Corporation--BRA in ACCT. and Fin. MBA with Acct. and Fin. Backgrounds. 
Emory University Grad. School of Bus. Admin.--All majors will be considered. 
Leventhol Kreketein Horwath & llorwath--BBA in Acct. MBA with ' Acct. background. 
Tulane University-Grad. School of Bus. Admin.--All interested students. 
October 8-9 
Texaco Inc.-B in C.E., E.E. and Geol. B.M. in ChE. and M.E. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year! from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
!• 
46556. 
LEARN TO JUMP 



MCPC Inc. Skydiving center 
located 15 min. North East of N.D. 3 miles North of Edwardsburg, Mich. for more information· call (616) 445-8251 
I 
I


:XHILTOD HOTELS 
~."I 'I ·~ 4 .. "• • ~ "'• .._ •• •, • 



·-----------------· 

Where can I find off-campus housing information? I'm espe­cially curious about such information with regard to next fall. 
Your best bet is to see the ladies in the Student Affairs Office which is located on the 3rd floor of the Administration Building. They try to keep an up-to-date listing on available housing and are usually very helpful in setting you straight as to the pitfalls· of house or apartment ;hunting. However, information as to next fall's housingsituation might not yet be ready.Therefore, it might be wise to talk to Father James Shilts who is in charge of off-campus housing matters for Student Affairs. He should be able to give . you some idea as to when detailed listings will be availabele. Lastly, it might be good to talk to seomone from The Legal Aid Society (LADA) to ensure that prior tenants of your landlord to be have not run into problems over their choice of housing. You can reacach a representative of LADA at 7995 between 1 P.M. and 4 P.M. daily. 
Who's in charge of The Placement Bureau? 
The Director of The Placement Bureau is Mr. Richard Willemin and his office is located on the 2nd floor of the Administration Building. You can reach him be phone at 6255. 
Would the following clubs please have a representative get in touch with The Ombudsman Service at 7638 as soon as possible. Hawaiian Club Juvenile Probation Officers Kentucky Club New Jersey Club· New York Club Philadelphia Club START 
Power failure 
about ten minutes. Mulletby Rick Scharf received burns on his right handStaff Reporter 
and was taken to St. Joseph Hospital where he was treated and A power failure hit portions of released.
the South Quad Tuesday morning "There was water around theleaving many buildings without power vault that had to be pumped electricity for most of the day. 
out before we could repair theA cable malfunction in an un­cable," stated William Ganser,derground power vault north of the chief engineer of the power plant.
Bookstore tripped out a generator "The problem was not a seriousat the Notre Dame Power Plant one, but we could not get at it. Itcausing the problem at 9:20a.m. 
just was not an easy spot to fix," he The buildings without power noted. 
were: Sacred Heart Church, Elecricians were able to restoreCorby Hall, Sorin Hall, Walsh Hall, power to the Bookstore and OldKnights of Columbus Building, the College shortly before noon, andBookstore, Morrissey Hall, the service to the other buildings wasArchitecture Building and the Old completed at 4:30p.m.
College. 
"Water and a so-year old cable 
While attempting to locate the caused the problem," according to source of the power failure, line­Kenny Kempf of Koontz Wagner foreman Wilbur Mullet brushed Electric Co. "Once the cable was 
cables together in an underground repaired the power vault was tunnel, injuring himself and made watertight to keep from knocking out power in the Morris having a recurrence of the Inn and South Dining Hall for failure," he added 

---~--------~--~~-­
Wednesday, October 3, 1973 the observer 
3 

Ticket scandal 

Probe homecoming sales 
by Ken Bradford admission tickets were made by which the ten ticket packets staff Reporter available to ~e Student Union in allotted to the Student Government two hundred ftfty packages for the were dispersed. 
A Thursday meeting of the sale on Monday. ''Everyone from Student Board of Commissioners will look Two hundred twenty ticket ·Government who wanted tickets into the controversy surrounding packages were sold to students on had their names placed in a hat the Monday sale of Homecoming a first-come, first-serve basis. An and ten names were selected at Ticket packages. additional ten packages were random," he added. 
The Main controversy stems rafflell to members of the Student "We couldn't give everyone in from twenty ticket packages left Government, according to Joe Student Government the op­unaccounted for after the Ru~so, ~anager. of the Student portunity to buy special tickets or public sale. Umon Ttcket Offtce. there would be none available for 
A total of five hundred general The whereabouts of the the students "Russo explainedremaining twenty ticket packages 
' · is unknown. Student Union Director Jim Rybarczyk was
BursJlary 
unavailable for comment all day Tuesday and the Assistant Director, Ken Muth, stated that no ~omment would come from the
at Lyons 
Student Union Office. Related to the missing ticketsby Jeanne Murphy controversy are the charges ofStan Reporter mismanagement of the Ticket Office which appeared inA thief broke into Lyons Hall Tuesday's Observer. In answer toMonday night and got away with an editorial and a letter appearing over $400 in merchandise ranging in the paper, Russo said, "Thefrom applian~~es to clothing. 
reason we opened early was toDirector of Sec~urity Arthur Pears prevent injuries to those standingsuspects a black youth twelve to in line."
fourteen years of age. 
Russo added that holding thePears anticipates that the crime ticket sale at the time officiallywas committed approximately at announced would have resulted in 7:15 p.m. The youth was seen by "seven hours of pushing andanother resident of Lypns roaming shoving."

the halls around 7:00. When he was "To make 270 people stand inasked what he was doing, the line for six extra nours issuspect said "nothing" and was ridiculous," Russo said.
ushered outside the dorm by the Russo also explained the method 
resident. Shortly afterwards, the same resident. heard a whistle which seemed like it could have 256..0 J J J been a signal to an accomplice. 
::~;::::::::::::.:."":"::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::•
The boy who was wearing a brown leather jacket was not seen I\: Free Road Atlas!j cardsentering the room which was robbed, nor was he seen carrying ~~~~ while they last 1~~~ any of the stolen goods. ·~:::::::::::j::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ Books 
Among the lost items are a 
Magazines

Zenith digital dock-radio i value, 
mini-malt
$50, a portabl•e black and white 
2340 miracle lane Art
television vallue unknown, six 
mishawaka, indiana 46544 
(continued on page sup lie$ 
Man I Do we have 
! 
~ 
... 
(





BAGGIES 
K~uoo m:=tkes baggies in denims and plaids in a Wide cho1ce of colors. Priced at $11 and $12. 


BAGGIES 
We also have great values in cord baggies too Man! Do we have baggies. Come. See Save. 
Soon. · · 

BAGGIES 
ON THE CAMPUS . . NOTRE DAME 
. .
' 

..... -·. ~· .•·... \' '. ' ..... 
..
... ... c: c c " • ' • ' "' • • • • . • , .• • • t ' ' • ... ,........... ~.. .... .. I> 

-------------------~---­
---~---~-------~~-·------~--­
THE OBSERVER P.O. Box Q 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Dan Barrett memories
Executive Editor Executive Editor Dear N.D. Students, I'm sitting here thinking about NEWS: 283-1715 grand old Notre Dame. It's late Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos September and I'm not there. It's a Business Manager BUSINESS: 283-7471 Advertising Manager strange feeling watching the summer end, and not packing up Wednesday, October 3, 1973 everything you own to make the long trip out to school for another year. It always seemed like college would go on forever. Then all of a sudden it was graduation day -
Bam! That's it ! It's over! It never really hit me that I was gone for good until I saw everybody else 
Come Clean SU 
The Notre Dame Student Union is susp1c1on over it. An open and honest 
going off to school this September. 
finding the going rougher and rougher for account of where the tickets went can 
A feeling of loneliness came over
them this week. First, a controversy only serve to better the student's image me when I first realized it, anderupted over the selling of tickets for the of the Union. then I consoled myself by pointingSouthern Cal football game. Now the If the tickets went to union workers as out all the things I wouldn't have to Union is embroiled in a further con­per a general union procedure, then that put up with for the next 9 mon­
ths.To mention just a few -the
troversy over the "disappearance" of should be admitted. It is a defensable 
gourmet food of the dining hall,
approximately 40 of the 500 football position if the Union cares to stand up and 
the struggle between studying for
tickets delivered to their hands. defend it. If the tickets were involved in 
an important test or watching the
THe Observer refuses to charge the some form of mismanagement or behind Dolphins -Jets game on MondayUnion with mismanagement of these the back deals then it is time for the Union night football, those wonderfully missing tickets at this time. But the to admit it and take lhe balme. It is time stimulating all-nighters, the failure of Jim Rybarczyk, Union for the Union to come clean. pleasantly cool South Bend 
weather, the fast-paced, hard-to­
Director, and Ken Muth, Assistant 
keep-up-with social life, and finally 
Director, to comment on the situation Jerry Lutkus 
those exciting walks in 10 below
merely casts a pall of secrecy and winds to an 8:00 o'clock Monday morning class. However, these minor annoyances were drowned out by the good things I found. The people at N.D. are of very high caliber . This is
Good Start AC 
what I miss the most. It's hard to leave such good friends-friends who watched you pull some of the
While one part of the Student Union SMC students along with Plimpton. It's a 
stupidest stunts in vour life and
finds itself tied up in a scandal, another fine start that they are off to and still stayed right by your side. It's section of it--the Academic Commission-­hopefully it will continue. not easy to say -"I'm not gave note to the student body last night going to see 90 per cent of these
Jerry Lutkus

that they intend to do great things. They people for the rest of my life." It's 
easier , though, if you think of them
brought the talented and witty author and 
the observer as people who helped you , guided 
imposter George Plimpton to campus. 
you, and prepared you for the most 
Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn
Plimpton entertained a capacity crowd in important part of your life. You
Asst. Night Editor: Ann McCarry
Washington Hall with his tales and it is Layout: Tom Devine can always remember them for this kind of talent and education that Typists: Mary Romer, Connice Fourre, John that with a silent thank you in the Notre Dame has come to expect from the Flannigan, Tom Modgun, Steve Roper, Carole back of your head. I'm beginning Rechtsteiner to ramble into sentimentality. I'll
speakers that the Academic Commission 
Night Contoroller: Howard Halle try to cut this short.
brings. Already they have introduced 
Compugraphic: Joe Abell I have mixed emotions. I wish I
Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm and Day Editor: Jim Rossini could be back at N.D., and yet I'm 
Ramparts editor James Ridgeway to ND-Copy Editor: Greg Aiello Pictureman: Jerome very glad to finally be out of school. I am now ready to start the life N.D. has prepared me for; the next step of the life cycle has now begun. On the other hand you have a tendency to think about the pep rallies, the games, the lousy parties, the crazy antics, the touch football games, the food fights, 
etc .... 

N.D. was a tremendous experience for me. I know that there are a lot of you people cursing the place though, condemning its an­tiquated rules and prison en­vironment. If you're looking at it that way then you might as well drop out. Why be miserable for 4 years? On the other hand, if you're going to stay , then why not try to make the most of it? Your social life's bad?? Then do something about it! You'd be amazed how many girls are sitting in on week­ends while the guys are getting drunk in their rooms, complaining 
daanesbury r:~arry trudeau 



about no girls to date. If 
everybody had an attitude like 
that, N.D. would still require coat 
and ties, no girl's in the dorms, no 
drinking, (all were in effect 5 years 
ago). But students changed all that 
because of their initiative. 

I'm not saying everything can · be 
all roses all the time. But what is? 
N .D. can be the best experience of your life if you make it happen or it could be one of the worst. Do me a favor, don't complain -the time flies by before you know it. Make the most of it before it's too late. 
Have a great year and collegiate career. 
With warm regards, Mike Lyons 
Not-so fond 

expectations 
Editor: 

An incoming freshman at any college in this country has high expectations of "college life". Any freshman expecting amaranthine parties will undoubtably be disappointed. However, it is the opposite extreme that merits criticism ---the social life at the University of Notre Dame. 
The University appears to ignore the fact that social life is an im­portant facet of education. The administration circulates a bulletin "This is Notre Dame" from which the quote originates Notre Dame endeavors to present a collegiate education that is truly geared to modern society, giving the students a basic un­derstanding of the world we live in today". Upon arriving at Notre Dame one realizes that University fails to support this appeal. As recently as last week "The Ob­server" published a story con­cerning a ban on hall parties this weekend. 
It is improbable that a student will become a well-rounded in­dividual through scholarship alone. That is not to deny that scholarship is the most vital part of Notre Dame. But a student should be able to gauge his ac­tivities so that he may become oriented to the society he must encounter off campus. 
Notre Dame does offer basic college organizations: sports, student government, and the student newspaper. These organizations, however, are very selective. Another excerpt from "This is Notre Dame" reads, "It is popular now for people to 'seek identity' and to engage in activities to 'find themselves'". The limited activities at Notre Dame, specifically the repugnance of parties, prevents a student from expanding his social experience. 
What are freshmen tg expect in the future? Will the 7:2 balance of men to women continue at Notre Dame? Perhaps the students will find the prohibition of parties recinded to chaperoned parties, possibly with square dances. If fate smiles upon the students there may even be evening visits to Camp St. Mary's. 
When the situation became the topic of conversation with a 93 year old priest, a 71 year veteran of Notre Dame, he offered this story: Once not too long ago, a priest while taking his daily stroll of campus, encountered a depressed looking young man leaning against a tree. The priest consoled "Don't worry son things will get better over the next four years". The student replied "hell father, I've been here four years already" ! 
Steve Blubaugh 212 Holy Cross 
~-----~-­
Wednesday, October 3, 1973 the observer 


alcoholism and notre dame 
On this campus right now there are probably dozens of sick people who are receiving no medical treatment whatever and probably don't even reaUze they are ill. Most would even deny it vehemently. 
They are victims of a disease which can permanently damage most bodily organs and shorten a person's life span 12 to 15 years. Often it is fatal. The disease is widespread among young adults. One out of every six patients in veterans hospitals is afflicted with it. 
The disease, of course, is alcoholism. 
Wild exaggeration? I don't think so. At a recent conference on alcoholism held in the Center for Continuing Education, experts pointed out that one out of every 10 to 15 drinkers in the United States is an alcoholic. An agency in South Bend estimates that there are 10,000 alcoholics in the county. If these statistics are even remotely close to reality, there are dozens of alcoholics at Notre Dame among students, faculty and administrators. 
Said Mrs. Rosemary Lough, director of the Alcoholism Council of St. Joseph County: "With a student population at an institution like Notre Dame, it's certainly true that one out of 10 drinkers is in some stage of alcoholism. In fact, it might even be higher than that. Comparing the student population with the population at large, the only real difference would be that the alcholics at Notre Dame are in earlier stages of the disease." 
That's why she stresses the need for drinkers to recognize the early signs that theyare in trouble : 
High tolerance: This student can keep on drinking after his friends have disappeared under the table. His companions marvel at his capacity to hold his liquor. But experts regard it as a sign that the student may be facing the problem of alcoholism. 
Blackouts: This students can't remember 
what he did during all or part of the time he 
was drinking. His friends may tell him he acted quite sober during that time. (A blackout of this type does not mean loss of consciousness.) "This almost never hap­pens to normal drinkers," says Mrs. Lough. "And if it happens more than once, it's almost su.rely a sign of an alcoholism problem." 
Focal point drinkers: This student is always searching for reasons to drink because alcoholis is a focal point of his life. He drinks is he passes a test, he drinks if he fails it, he drinks if the professor never showed up to give the test. Any reason to drink is good enough for him. 
Jekyll-Hyde drinkers: This student un­dergoes a radical personality change when he drinks. For example, if he's a campus strong man, he has a crying jag. If he's a 97­pound weakling he challenges a Bengal Bout champ. 
let's do something 

When I jot down these early sign, I'm not doing it to scare anyone. Nor am I launching a tract on temperance. (As one who enjoys a drink I would be a hopeless hypocrite if I did.) And certainly I am not pointing a finger of scorn at the victims. Moralistic clergymen literally do more harm than good. What I am doing, quite simply, is to point out a problem which does indeed exist in hopes that all of us can do something about it. 
It's only in the past decade that society in general has begun to realize that alcoholism is widespread in our culture. Enough evidence has accumulated in the past 10 years to prove that the disease is incredibly tragic, destructive and costly wherever it is found. Similarly, there is enough evidence 
not only of the presence of the disease at, Notre Dame but of its tragic, destructive and costly ways. Anyone close to the student scene knows part of the toll--lives lost, lives ruined, widespread destruction of property. 
"There's no question about it," said Dr. 
Sheridan McCabe, director of the coun­selling center at Notre Dame. "We talk a lot about the drug problem and rightly so but for every student who is abusing drugs like ·'downers' and so forth there are many, many more who are abusing alcohol in a way detrimental to their well being and to their 
participation as students on campus." 
"It's a major problem. And John 
Macheca (dean of students) and Fr. Terry 
Lally (assistant dean of students) agree." 
getting bombed 
McCabe speaks of "alcohol abuse" rather 
than alcoholism as such. Alcoholism occurs 
when a person drinks increasing amounts of 
alcohol, comes to depend on it, and loses 
control over its use. Once he starts 
drinking, he usually ends up drunk. Ad­
ditionally, he needs increasing doses to 
achieve and sustain a desired effect and 
shows symptoms of withdrawal when he 
stops drinking. Not all these factors are 
necessarily present for the alcohol abuser. 
"What we are talking about here are 
students who take alcohol on a regular basis 
to the point where they are stuporous or 
beyond that point," he said. "We are 
talking about the students who get bombed 
every weekend, who drink without caution 
to the point of loss of control. In some cases 
this means two or three drinks; in other 
instances it means half a fifth." 
McCabe does not advocate a "crack 
down" policy regarding the use of alcohol on 
campus and is perfectly willing to agree 
that alcohol is a good thing is used properly. 
But he worries about problem drinkers and 
wonders whether anything can be done to 
change the attitude which some students 
have toward drinking. 
"After all," he pointed out, "there should 
be some more appropriate way to release 
tension than by getting drunk every 
weekend. We need some consciousness 
fr. thomas mcnally 
raising so that students can examine what they are doing to themselves and look for alternatives-while simultaneously having a good time! Surely th~e must be more creative ways to release tension after a long, hard week." 
college drinkers 

It's difficult to judge, of course, how many of the studdnts in question are well onthe way to alcoholism and how many are acting like typical "college drinkers" of bygone years. 
"That's why it's so important to check for the early signs which indicate an alcoholism problem," said Mrs. Lough. "If a person experiences a high tolerance toward alcohol, or blackouts, he certainly should be willing to consider thepossibility that he isheading for serious trouble. 
"Many persons who were with me in college are now in their mid-20s. Though they may have drunk quite a bit in college, most of them are not alcoholics now. But some of them are!" 
What can be done here? I wish to suggest a few needs which occur to me: 
l.) The need for all of us to become more aware of alcoholism and alcohol abuse on campus and everywhere. 
2.) The need to help problem drinkers realize that they do indeed have a problem. 
3.) The need to provide adequate treat­ment for victims. Because alcoholics are ill they need medical treatment and care from agencies such as Alcoholics Anonymous, which is very effective. Those who are in the early stages of the disease obviously will need less help but they cannot afford to ignore the signs. And even light or moderate drinkers must be cautious about alcohol, which can bring genuine pleasure into our lives and also can bring such grief. 
4.) The need to provide more alternatives for those who believe that the only way to "let off steam" is to get blasted on weekends. 
the new riders and mcguinn ­


surely a bargain 
The New Riders of the Purple Sage and Roger McGuinn will appear this Friday evening at 8:00 p.m. at the ACC as the ­Student Union presents its third concert of the season. And as far as I can see, it could very well be the "sleeper" of this semester. The memory of the Seals and Crofts concert here last year (before they aquired their current populanty) goes through my mind as I contemplate this one. It would be a pity if a good portion of the student body passed up this potentially excellent concert. Both McGuinn and the New Riders represent some of the finest talent there is in the music field today. 
The New Riders have been around for about four years and four albums (their latest effort, Panama Red, comes out this week). They have proven themselves to be a high quality country-rock band, or a "psychedelic cowboy band" as their drummer Spencer Dryden would refer to th­zm. 
The band got its start as a touring com­panion of the Greatful Dead, which is logical since Jerry Garcia (pedal steel) and Mickey Hart (drums) played for the New Riders as well as the Dead. At that time, the group consisted of John (Marmaduke) Dawson on lead vocals and rhythm guitar, David Nelson mn lead guitar and vocals, and David Torbert on bass and vocals. 
Their first album, entitled New Riders of the Purple Sage, is very reflective of the Dead, a sort of country Dead. ·Most of Marmaduke's vocals have a lazy Garcia tinge and stand out as one of the group's most noticeable features. The material itself, all Marmaduke compositions, is pretty exceptional, particularly "Last Lonely Eagle," "I Don't Know You," and "Dirty Business." 
Powerglide, the group's second album, differs from the first in a number of ways. Spencer Dryden (formerly of the Jefferson Airplane) is the drummer and Buddy Cage replaces Garcia on pedal steel. Cage is probably responsible for some of the traditional country sounds, such as "Dim Lights, Thick Smoke" and "Running Back to You." 
The third album, Gypsy Cowboy, is quite similar to Powerglide. It contains mostly country-rock with a couple of rock songs, "Groupie" and "Death and Destruction" which sounds a bit like Neil Young's "Down By The River" Dave Torbert has four songs on the album, including the title cut, with its surrealistic steel guitar and dobro and the lovely "Linda." Marmaduke adds six tunes and the group is backed up by such talented people as Richard Greene on fiddle and Donna Jean Godchaux and Darlene DiDomenica, who help out with the vocals. 

Their new album, Panama Red, should contain more rock, considering that's what they've been doing more of as of late. Regardless of which music they play on Saturday (undoubtedly a lot of both), they should make for a good concert. 
As for Roger McGuinn, I cannot say enough. He has been a favorite of mine since his early days as a Byrd. 
The original Byrds had an abundance of talent. Besides McGuinn, there was Gene Clark, the songwriter, David Crosby, with his strange songs and beautiful harmonies, and Christopher Hillman, who bloomed later as the third voice and pen (when Clark left) while always playing solid bass. But McGuinn was the guiding force of the Byrds. His Dylanish falsetto and his beautiful work on the Rickenbacker 12-string became the trademark of the Byrds. During his eight years with the band, he was responsible fo. a number of fine albums and the diverse directions that they took: Folk-rock, country, country-rock, science fiction, or whatever. He was certinly a pioneer in the field of music. 
His first solo attempt, entitled simply Roger McGuinn, is a collection of new songs containing a number of his previously used styles of music. My favorite song on the album is a McGuinn-Jaques Levy com­position, "Bag Full of Money." This is a 
humorous country-rock tune about a jet hijack which features nice pedal steel and the exquisite harmony of McGuinn and David Crosby. 
The album features a number of famous sidemen including Crosby and the rest of the original Byrds, Charls Lloyd on sax, Bruce Johnston (former Beach Boy) on piano, and McGuinn's mentor himself, Bob Dylan, who r,la_ys harmo~,ica on. "I'm .~ Restless.." Time Cube, a Sc1enc~ f1cbon song, 1s another personal favor1te and features 
pat small 


McGuinn on banjo, moog synthesizer, and vocals and is reminiscent of "Space Odyssey" (from Notorious Byrd Bros.) other bits of deja vu include "Heave Away," a sea chanty featuring the great harmony of Spanky (and Our Gang) McFarlane and "Lost My Drivin' Wheel." 
The album also contains a Vietnamese blues lament, "Hanoi Hannah," and a Beach Boy takeoff replete with Bruce Johnston falsetto entitled "Draggin' " which is about a race between two 747's. Also included are a couple of religious chorus-tyPE songs and McGuinn's ode to women's lib, "My Knew Woman." 
: McGuinn will most certainly give ample time to his new stuff but it's a sure bet that ,plenty_ of oldies will be included. And if M_cGumn ste~ls the sho_w from the New 
· Rtders, I won t be surprtsed. 
At any rate, the combination of the New Riders and McGuinn looks quite impressive. Tickets for this show are $4.50, $3.50 and $2.50 (a bargain!) and will be sold through show time. For those rates, and especially these people, the concert is already a winner. 

Wednesday, October 3, 1973
the observer
6 

SMC scholarship fete a success 
by Melissa A. Byrne Staff Reporter 
"An Evening at St. Mary's" was the theme of a formal dinner hosted by President and Mrs. Edward L. Henry on campus Tuesday, October 2, 1973. 

Guests donated $100 per couple to provide scholarships for Michiana area high school students interested in attending SMC. Approximately 150 people attended, including SMC Alumnae and business and community leaders from the South Bend area. 

Tonight's cinema treat: 
The event was designed to Lounge, followed by a gourmet enhance relations between SMC dinner in the college dining hall. and the Michiana community. The Music Department 
"We are trying to make certain highlighted this first annual event. that worthy girls who ought to be at A documentary film featuring the St. Mary's College can come SMC-ND Chorus in concert 
here," said Henry. throughout Europe was presented. "An Evening at St. Mary's" The film will be aired on television 
began with a reception in Stapleton later this fall. "It is anticipated other departments will be featured in future years," said Dr. J.L. Detzler, SMC director of com­
munity relations. "We've invited top people in the

''America First''· at SMC 
area because we feel St. Mary's 
The internationally acclaimed film "America First" will be shown Wednesday, October 3, at 8:00p.m. in Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's. 
Directed by J.L. Anderson, "America First" was produced independently in the United States, and introduces a new, workable approach to the making of low­budget feature films in this country.
The film deals with a group of seven travelers who try to build a "Garden of Eden" with the mhabitants of an Appalachian hollow. The attempt, recorded in the movie by a television documentary news team, shows how mutual trust cannot grow from suspicion.
Director of photography David 
W. Prince's images point up the extraordinary beauty of Ap­palachia. Most of the film was shot on a farm in southeastern Ohio, near the Ohio River. 
Eaubacher on existentialism at St. Marys 

The department of modern 
languages at Saint Mary's is 
sponsoring a lecture by Joseph P. 
Ebacher, on Wednesday, October 
3, at 8:00p.m. in the College's Little 
Theatre. Ebacher, professor of 
French at Saint John's University, 
Collegeville, Minnesota, will speak 
on "Existentialism: A Christian 
Ascesis." 

Prior to joining Saint John's 
University, Professor Ebacher 
taught French at Xavier 
University, Cincinnati, Ohio, and 
at the College of the Sacred Heart, 
Newton, Massachusetts. He has 
developed a seven-volume 
programmed reading series for the 
French language, published by 
Harcourt-Brace. 

The lecture, which will be 
delivered in English, should be of 
particular interest to students of 
philosophy and psychology, as well 
as to amaterus of the modern 
literature of France, Spain, 
England, and the United States, 
according to Sr. M. Anna Teresa 
Bayhouse, C.S.C., chairperson of 
the modern languages depart­
ment. 


Returning to South Bend by pular demand...the New York ing Company in the original sical based on the gospel Ac· ding to St. Matthew. 
Thurs. & Fri. --Oct. 15-16 MORRIS CIVIC 
8:30pm 

Richard M. Bluenberg's script is both funny and tragic. The at­mosphere it creates testifies to its attempts to penetrate the in­vidiuals who· individuals who compose the microcism of con­temporary America. 
Dimitri Eipides, director of the Montreal International Festival of Cinema at which "America First" 
'Pete Snake"stars: 
TINGES, FRANCE 
Arrangements by the Edgerton Travel Service
Pop Farley's opens 
IMPORTANT MEETING AND COLORFUL 
by Michele Tate Staff Reporter 

The women of Farley have decided to continue the tradition of Pop Farley's Tonight will be "The Grand Reopening" in the basement of Farley Hall. "Pete Snake" and others will be featured from 9:30-12:00 and free refresh­ments will be served. 
One year ago today, a group of musicians and organizers from Farley Hall decided to open a coffee house both for their own enjoyment and to break the monotony of academic pursuits. 
Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will 
extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
The Library reopens after 
Health Dept. forces close 
by Judy Rauenhorst Staff Reporter 

The Library Bar-Restaurant reopened Monday after being closed by the County Health Department since last Wednesday. 
Dr. Speybroeck, County Health Officer, said the only problem was that the Library owner, Rick Kanser, did not take time to get the necessary license to operate. "According to State and City or­dinances," continued Speybroeck, "an establishment must pass certain requirements to be eligible for a Health Permit to get a City license." Speybroeck concluded that any deficiencies The Library had have been met. The Library is now re-open for business. 
Kris Kerrigan, a Notre Dame studen• nd waitress at The College is worthy of their support,'' was shown, described the film as said Henry. Special guests in­"truly relevant and significant in cluded Fr. Theodore Hesburgh,
terms of creativity, originality and social importance." Dr. and Mrs. Roland Chamblee 
and Sr. Catherine Francis,The public is invited to attend the Chairman of the SMC Board ofscreening. There will be no ad­Regents.
mission charge. Following the It is anticipated the event willfilm, members of the Saint Mary's 
department of sociology will be available for a discussion with the audience. 
SKI THE ALPS 
MOVIE PRESENTATION: WED., OCT. 3 
7:30pm Rm 1-C LaFortune
Pop Farley's was held weekly on Wednesday nights presenting local 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Ski Club-All Interested Notre Dame & St. Mary's students should attend the meeting. For further in­
talent and drawing crowds of 3Q-35 
formation, call 6716.

people. "We got the people who knew those playing or just liked music. Some people would stop by on their way back from the library 
J'trttfOIIt and take a short study break," said Bill Blanford, a former Farleyite. 
Tires 

The atmosphere was informal, with the performers often in­troducing their own material. On 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT
special occasions, like birthdays, Pop. served ice cream and cake, and on Halloween they held a 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­
pumpkin carving contest. 
ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special priE:e. 
502 S. Michigan 
South Bend, Indiana
Library since the beginning of 
:-:,e pte m ber, said the Health '-;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.
Department came in and closed r" 
the kitchen immediately without a 
10 day warning to fix things up. 
"The kitchen was not dirty " Kerrigan stated, "and we always check silverware before it goes out to the customers. The Health Department gave us a list of things to do, and I spent time last week painting." 
The front bar, one of two at The Library, has also been closed since last Wednesday. Kerrigan said the building is allowed one bar under the present permit and Kanser was unaware of the need to have it renewed. 
"It takes time to obtain the proper license and I hope Rick gets it soon because he has already lost around $2,000," Kerrigan stated. 
Kanser refused comment. 


--w~~N~D----.
reservations 

284-4176  
SMC  Student -Faculty ND-5MC Staff  
THEATRE  $1.50  
SEASON 1973-74  

Richard III 
Shakespeare's bold history Oct. 9, 10, 11, 12, 13at8:30pm ~'Laughlin .Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
., ' .' . (. r .··..~ .. ·! !. ~. A 
gross approximately $10,000. "The students will benefit directly in terms of scholarships and in­directly, by cultivating interest in the college for future years," said Henry. 
A fifteen-member committee representing St. Mary's College and the Michiana community met during the summer to plan the event. The general co-ehairmen were Mrs. J. Elmer Peak and Mrs. Robert H. Michaud. Committee members included Mrs. Jerome Crowley, Mrs. W. Kluessner, Mrs. 
S. Welber, Mrs. Kay Cooper, Mrs. 
J. Fahey, Sister M. Basil Anthony, 
C.S.C.,  Mrs.  G. Weber,  Mr.  S.  
Gilbert,  Mr.  Richard  Hosinski,  
Mrs.  Philip  Faccenda,  Mr.  J.  
Kearns,  Mr.  M. Nicholson  and  

Sister Ellen Dolores Lynch, C.S.C. 
SMC STUDENTS ARE YOU INTERESTED IN 90 degree temperature during Jan., Feb., March & April? Desert Sun and Mountain Snow? 
Hispanic­

Southwest 
American~.... 


History?
Culture?-­

An integrated social intellectual-spiritual experience? IF YOU ARE Sign up ~w for a second semester in TUCSON 
Applications must be in by NOV 15 (only twenty s·tudents will be accepted) 
OBTAIN INFORMATION FROM 
Sister Alma, C.S.C. Coordinator of Off Campus Programs Rm. 115 LeMans SMC · · · · · 

Wednesday, October 3, 1973 the observer 
7 

ND sophs demonstrate fanaticism 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 
Fanaticism in supporting their Irish athletic heroes is not solely a trait of hockey aficionados, two Notre Dame sophomores proved beyond doubt this past weekend. 
"Purdue or Bust" emblazoned on their backpacks, Keenan Hall residents Brian Hegarty and "Dangerous Dan" Duncheon departed Thursday evening and pedalled 250 total miles on bicycles to cheer the Fighting Irish to victory in Lafayette, Indiana. The pair braved several rainstorms, a steady flow of eastbound traffic, and more than a few openly hostile glares cast their way from Purdue loyalists, in order to "be there" for the Notre Dame-Purdue football contest Saturday. 
"We're glad we went," said an enthused Dan Duncheon Monday. "We wanted to show the true Notre Dame spirit and thought this would be a good way to do it." 
The cross-country trek was not 
uneventful. Both cyclists affirmed 
there were many risks and 
dangers encountered along the 
way. 
Hegarty suffered the first 
mishap only one and a half miles 
short of their goal. 
"When I wrecked it was really 
trafficky," explained Hegarty. "I 
was forced off the road and when I 
tried to get back on and off the 
gravel shoulder, well, I just went 
flying across the road." 
Duncheon said Hegarty landed 
in the middle of the highway and 
added, "I never saw anyone crawl 
so fast in my life." 
Minutes later, near their 
destination, Duncheon slowed to 
ask directions from a pretty girl. 
Unfortunately, his admiring eyes 
remained on her and off the road 
WANTED 

I am going to be disowned unless I get 3-4 Gen. Ad. tix for my father for any home game but Air Force. Will pay$$. Call 4077. 
Need 4 G.A. MSU tickets desparaiel y. 
Need one MSU G.A. ticket will pay obnoxious price. call 234­25.t.!. 
Need 1 MSU ticket. Call 4773. 
Desperately need 5 MSU tickers. Call Pat 4003. 
Need two GA Navy tix . please help me. Bill 3251. 
Need 3 GA tix to Navy game. Call Mike 1004. 
Needed: GA tix to USC call. Phil at 1598. 
Needed 2 USC ticKets. Call ChucK 234-2542. 
Need 2-5 GA MSU tickets. Call Jim 234-5822. 
Need 2 GA USC ticKets. Desperately. Call Kathy 3784. 
Wanted: two tickets to Michigan State. Call 233-7638. 
Wanted: Waitresses and Waitors, no experience necessary, partime, preferably 21 yrs. of age or older. If in. terested call South Bend Country Club. 287-3373 ask for Chris May. 
Desperately needed. Gen. Ad. tix for the Armygame and the Navy game. Call 1364. 
Desperately needed 2 USC tix. Call 287-1178 after 10 pm. 
Need 2-6 GA tix for USC. Will pay reasonably exorbitant prices. Also need 2 GA tix for MSU. 232-2973. 
Wanted: Dome's for Personal Collection. Need 19111912-1914· 1915-1916-1917-1918-1924-1925· 1926 to complete set. Call Tom Kirshner · Acct. Dept. 3296 or 234-3790, 
for just a few moments too many. His bike hit the curb and Duncheon himself hit the sidewalk-head first. 
"It very nearly put a hole in my hat," recounted Duncheon. 
While at Purdue, the two stayed with friends at Alpha Sigma Phi fraternity. They said they were generally well received, except for the several times they sang the Victory March while in the midst of throngs of Biolermaker fans. 
Observer staff 
to hear Powers 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
John J. Powers, managing editor of the South Bend Tribune, will speak at the regular reporters' meeting of the Observer staff on Thursday night, October 4. 
The meeting will take place a 7 
p.m. in room 2-D of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Powers is a native of Long Island, New York. After paratrooper service in World War II, he entered the university of Notre Dame in 1948. 
He worked in one of the original summer intern programs at the Wall Street Journal. During his senior year at Notre Dame, he was editor of the Scholastic. 
The day after he graduated from Notre Dame in 1952, he went to work for the South Bend Tribune, where he has been ever since. He worked as a reporter and later as an editorial writer until June of 1957, when he was promoted to managing editor. 
The Thursday night reporters' meeting featuring Powers is open to the public. 
Departing from Purdue Sunday afternoon at 1:30, the sophomores finally reached their beds in Keenan at approximately four o­clock Monday morning. They reported two significant events from their return trip. 
First, when their flashlights had grown dim, they stopped at a farmhouse in Rochester to see if they could purchase another. The farmer, a Mr. Don Snipes, not only loaned them a flashlight (trusting them to mail it back), but also offered to drive them the remaining forty miles to Notre Dame. 
Secondly, Hegarty and Dun­cheon got lost, for the fist time, in nearby Mishawaka. It was not until they accidentally passed the Cinema Arts Theatre that they knew for certain the remainder of their route. 
Although Hegarty emphasized the importance of peanuts and beef 
Lyons theft 
(continued from page 3) 
record albums, two watches, one worth $100 and the other worth $50, a high school class ring, and several articles of clothing in­cluding slacks and belts valued at 
$80. 

According to one of the residents of the suite broken into, the young thief or thieves came in through he door which was unlocked. Clothes were strewn all over the floor in one of the rooms and the closets were rummaged through. The youth allegedly carried the articles out in a laundry bag which was also taken. 
The students living in the room 
were not home Monday evening 
and were not aware of the theft 
until 10:00 p.m. 
jerky -to their diet, Duncheon reported that they were predominately ''spirits-powered.'' 
Both cyclists rode ten-speed bicycles round-trip --Hegarty riding a Schwinn Continental and Duncheon a Ross Euro-Sport. 
Asked if he had anything ex­traordinary in mind for this coming weekend, Hegarty sum­med up his intentions in one word "Sleep." ' 
WHERE WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE ON DEC. 1st? 
SIGN 
UP 
FOR THE 
SENIOR CLASS TRIP 
open to all nd students and faculty 3 DAYS & 3 NIGHTS IN 
MIAMI 
BEACH!!! 

only $160 
$25 deposit due at travel bureau 
NO LATER THAN FRI· OCT. J2 
Questions? 
Call Charlie or Bob at 233-9555 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Need 6 MSU lix. Call 287-1178 Need 2-4 GA tix to MSU and NOTICES 
after 10 pm will pay. USC. Will pay. Call Scott 1598 
or 214 Grace. Antlers Club now accepting Need 3 GA tix to USC game. membership. Info -4964. John -1605. Slero mechanic? Need help 
with turntable repair. Will 
Public notice: the infamous Help! Need 2 GA liz to Navy. pay!!! Call 6766. Grace Tower Gorillas hockey Call Barb 1292 or Joe 8218. club will be holding Need 2 USC GA lix or I'll kill Scalpers -attention. Need myself. Will pay $.40. Call PUBLIC NOTICE: THE IN­MSU tix. GA or Stud. Sharon Carole 8148. 
FAMOUS GRACE TOWER 
287-4003. GORILLAS HOCKEY CLUB Need dog watcher and exer­WILL BE HOLDING ciser on weekends for friendly TRYOUTS AND PRACTICE
Roommate needed Notre 
Irish Seteter. Call 287-1178
Dame Apts. 832 N.D. Ave. Apt. TONIGHT AT 11:00 AT THE 2-A Call 233-1302. A.C.C. ALL INTERESTED
after 10 pm. 
GRACE GORILLAS SHOULD Need 2 GA MSU tix -1593.
Help. Desperately need 3 GA BE AT THE RINK BY 10:30. MSU tix. Call 5734. 
FOR SALE 

National Lampoon'sNew I)Jet:d 4 GA and 3 Stud. tix to Encyclopedia of Humor now at
For sale: Electrophonic am­
MSU. 8472 or 8475. Pandora's also Penthouse,
tm stereo, S-track tape, and 
Playboy,Oui, Ms., Psychology
Garrard changer. 8703.
NJeed 2 tix to MSU game. Call Today and more thousands of OWL, 6864. new and used books at
Meerschaum pipes! Ex­
unbelievable deep cut ciscount
ceptional values, personalized
NJeed 3 MSU tix. Mike 3305. prices. 602 51. Louis ( at So.
service. Cata.log. PMP CO. 
Bend Ave.) noon -9 daily ex­
Box 444 Gaithersburg, Md. 
Need MSU tix. Call Mary 4079. cept 9 -7:30 Sun.
20760. 
Want 2 GA USC tix. 272-0913 in PITT CLUB + RESER­
For sale: Swiss mov't, per­
e"ening. VATIONS MUST BE MADE
petual calendar Mercury 
NOW FOR SEMESTER
watches. 17 jewels. only $15.00 
BREAK BUS. RESER­

hnt 2 GA MSU tix. Call 5465. 
Call Frank 3119. 
VATIONS ALSO TAKEN FOR ~eed 2MSU tix. Call Tom 6522. 
THANKSGIVING. CALL 2127
For sale: Mavtin D-35 guitar 
BOB.

p7 Cav. 
with hard-shell case. Call Bill Nieed 2 -t>-A-ti_X_f_o_r_U_S_C_.-C-all 
283-1161. 
Morrissey Loan Fund can loan up to $150 at 1 percent interest,
Jim 234-7022. 2-F78x14 snow tires. Used one 
1 day waiting period.

I winter. Like new. Mounted on Basememt of Lafortune. 11:15qespe•ately need 2 GA MSU 
rims. $20.00each. Call 272-7857 ~ · 311 Mike 1820. 
-12:15. Mon.-Fri.
after 5 pm. 
Students interested in N D-SMC "'(anted: 2,4,6, or 8 Army 

For sale: new hide away bed 
Gay Student Alliance call 7768.
tickets. Cliff 1073. 
green and black velvet . $130.00 
Wed or Fri. 7-9 pm.

new irregular gold plaid couch
Desperately need 4 USC tix. 
-$50.00. Call 291-1117. 
Will pay. Call Pat 3273. MEN! WOMEN! JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience
64 Chevy Malibu. 6 clyn.
Need 5 tix for MSU game. Will required. Excellent pay.
Needs muffler $75. 234-5980. 
Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send P4Y well. Call John 1774. 
8 track recorder, 60 tapes, 
$3.00 for information.

Need one or two lix to MSU 
carrying case and car tape 
g~me. Call Bob. 3451. SEAFAX, Dept. L-16 P.O. Box
with speakers. 287-3002. 
I 2049, Port Angeles, Washington H~lp! Need 2 MSU tix. Call 98362.
Sony CF-629 AM-FM stereo
Jeanne 6728. 
receiver with speakers. Built 
Will do typing: term papers,

in cassette deck. 1 year old.
Need desperately 2 MSU tix. manuscripts, etx. call: 233·
excellent condition. Ed 7965.
Will pay well. Liz 4777. 
6909. 
Need 2 GA tix for MSU. Steve 
' 154.5. . . 
Anyone who might be in­terested in an organized bike hike to Bendix Woods (20 miles), please'call Hush at 1487, after 9 pm. 
Skiers interested in racing for the ND racing team organization meeting Tuesday, Oct. 2, 7:30, Room lc, LaFortune. If you cannot attend call Bob 234-8783. 
If you have sex, you may have gonorrhea, syphilis, or both. If in doubt. check it out! Call 284­9781 or come: 9th floor County Bldg. Mon thru Fri 8 am to 3 pm free-no appointmeFttS· confidential-bring a friend too. 
Mardi Gras '74: The Master of Middle Earth. 
SKI THE ALPS • TINGES, FRANCE. IMPORTANT MEETING AND MOVIE PRESENTATION: WED. OCT 3, 7:30 pm RM. 1-C LAFOR· TUNE. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: ring near St. Mary's Lake. Call Steve 1545. 
Lost: "Duke" football near Stepan. My name and address are on il. Please return it! Mike, 1487. 
FOR RENT 
1 and 2 room apt. 7 minute drive to ND. call 288-9533 after 3 pm. 
PERSONALS 
To Chris, Tom, RMD, Len, and Dream: "You're so queer." Luv, Ug. 
'Happy 21st Flea. Love, Deb, Chris and Amy. 
Happy Birthday, Rosie! 

the observer Wednesday, October 3, 1973 
Buckeyes take over first; Irish. Trojans drop down 
There were a couple of surprises ·ast Saturday on college gridirons 1cross the nation, and the weekly \P and UPI football polls reflect 
~hem. 
Woody Hayes' Ohio State Buckeyes catipulted two spots into che number-one position as a :esult of their thrashing of TCU at .1ome. Meanwhile, last week's .lacesetter and national champions 'lf a year ago, Southern Cal, after being tied by underdog Oklahoma 7-7 in Los Angeles, dropped all the ·Nay down to third in the UPI and fourth in the AP. 
The Buckeye victory, however, ...night have been a very costly one for State. All-American fullback Champ Henson, who led the nation in scoring last season, was lost for the season with torn knee ligaments. 
Nebraska barely defeated their Big Red rival from the North, Wisconsin, 20-16, but remained in the number-two spot in both polls. 
Alabama, which defeated 

Vanderbilt last weekend, climbed to third in the AP poll and was fourth in the UPI. 
Michigan, which should give the Buckeyes a challenge for the Big Ten title, placed fifth in both polls, followed by the surprising Sooners in sixth . 

.. The Irish Eye 
======:.:============================================~=~=~==================::::: Bargairl basement 
During the past six years, the powers-that-be at Notre Dame's Athletic :md Convocation Center have done quite a few things with their huge, 1ouble-domed arena complex. 
They've hosted mobile home shows, square dance extravaganzas, and Jridge tournaments. They've made room for Indiana high school Jasketball, and concerts ranging from the Carpenters to Poco. They've ~iven the basketball arena as a site for a university Mass for Peace, and 1ave seen countless ND class reunions held across the concourse in the ;outh dome--in the hockey· arena. 
But never, despite the considerable variety which characterizes ACC ~vents, has anyone mistaken the campus landmark for a bargain Jasement. It's too clean, too plush, and the entertainment it offers is too 'big-name." Bargain basement coliseums have become as scarce as 
Grade-A beef, and the Athletic and Convocation center has never been an ~xception to that rule. 
It hasn't been an exception, that is, up until now. For Notre Dame ticket manager Don Bouffard and his cronies in the Irish athletic ;>rogram have put together a pair of winter sports packages which will delight even the most discriminating fan--and the most discriminating wallet. 
In the South dome of the Convo Center, where the New Riders and l{oger McGuinn will cavort this weekend, coach Digger Phelps and a -;table full of basketball talent-some of it old, much of it new--are !waiting the December 1st opening of the '73-'74 cage season. Last year's NIT finalists play a 16-game home schedule this season, and Bouffard's basketball ticket package covers 14 of those contests (two are played during semester break.) 
Games with UCLA, Marquette, Duke, Davidson, and Villanova 1ighlight the home schedule facing Phelps' charges, and those students who did not apply for a basketball season ticket last spring will have the :>pportunity to do so on October 9th and lOth, Tuesday and Wednesday of next week, at the ticket office on the second floor pf the ACC. 
Single and married Notre Dame students may purchase their season seats for $13, and spouses and St. Mary's students will have to pay a bit more. 
In the ACC's North dome, where coach Lefty Smith has been doing marvelous things with the Irish ice hockey program during the past three years, the package offered by Bouffard is even more attractive. 
A home slate which includes defending national champion Wisconsin, games with Western Collegiate Hockey Association powers Denver and Vlichigan State, and a pair of non-conference encounters with CCHA ;trong-boy St. Louis is part of the package. A 14-game season ticket price 
•Jf $14 is another part. A squad with an abundance of talent is a third. The location of the student seats in the hockey arena is the final lure. 
Last year, when the Irish fought their way to a number-two finish in the WCHA, Bouffard placed student season ticket holders in sections seven :md eight, a block of seats which begins at the red line and extends one way to the blue line in the east end of the rink. The location is excellent, md the seats--because they're in shouting range of the visiting goalie for .wo of the game's three periods--were much sought after by some of 'Jotre Dame's more boisterous fans during the '72-'73 seas®. 
The Irish ticket manager has again reserved sections seven and eight ·or student seating during the upcoming season, but he stressed that, if 'JD students don't sell out the two bleacher sections during the two-day ;ale date, seats in seven and eight will be made available to anyone who iesires them. 
"The only way to get around it," he said, "If for us to sell out sections ;even and eight during that two-day period. (On both days, the ACC icket office will be open from 9a.m. to 4p.m.). Students will have to come ogether on the days we're selling the tickets, and purchase their seats in 1 block if they want to sit goether. 
"Other than that, we're going to have to stick with the reserved seating 1rrangement again this year. If the students don't sell out the two sec­ions, they really can't argue with a guy who sho\\ts up with a reserved ;eat ticket in his hand." 
There were arguments last season, and Bouffard would certainly like to 1void them during the upcoming campaign. And in order to avoid them, 1e's given Irish hockey (and basketball) fans a deal that seems hard to ·esist. 
"Price-wise," admitted Bouffard, "students will be better off with ;eason tickets." But that's not the only advantage. Those students with .>eason tickets will be assured of good seats for every game, and will be able to avoid some of the useless seating battles which took place last year. 
The solution is simple: there's a sale in the ACC bargain basement next Tuesday and Wednesday. Don't miss it. 
Penn State, which easily defeated Iowa ranked seventh and from there on, the two polls differ. 
The UPI, compiled from a vote of the top coaches in the nation, lists Tennessee, a surprising victor over Auburn, eighth, Notre Dame ninth and LSU tenth. 
The AP, known as the writers' poll, lists the Irish eighth, the Vols ninth and the Bayou Tigers tenth. 
Saturday's schedule features four exciting games involving members of the top ten: Miami of Florida, which upset Texas earlier this year, travels to Oklahoma; Penn State meets Air Force in the Rockies; the Irish entertain traditional rival Michigan State; and Florida takes on LSU . 
AP Ratings 
Thl' Top Twenty with rirsl·place votes in. parentheses, season records and total po1nts tabulated on bas1s of :!0-IS.I&-14-12·10.9-S-7·6·5-4-3·2·1: 
\f.I ..T PI< I Oluo State (35). . 2 0·0 1.11K ~ \dJra,ka (10) :l-0·0 H97 :1 \labama (6).. :t-0-0 H:l7 ~ So Cahforma (:ll,ll) 2-11-1 H:J:!II, 
;, ~!u·h1gan (2) . . :J.O-il i~l ~ Ok!ah11ma (II,~) 1-0.1 720'~ ; P•mn State (3) . . .. :t-0·0 fi'iM 
8. Sotre Dame. . .2·0-0 5!2 
9 Trnne"o;ee .:J.0-0 4i'i 

10. Loui,iana Stall'... . :J-0-0 328 
II. Oklahoma State . 3-11-0 ~!;9 
12. ,\rizona Slate ... :~0-0 163 1:1. Te~as . 1·1·0 13> 14 llou,ton.. 3-0-0 134 1'· ~lissouri . 3·0·0 101 16. I.:CLA .2-1·0 71 17. Miamr. Fla. .2-0-0 52 JR. Colorado . .2·1·0 32 
19 Su. ~tethnd1st :J-0·0 :JOI,iz 
20. Wrst Virgima ......... 3-0-0 30 
Others receiving votes. listed alpha· llellcally: Air Force. Arizona, Auburn. Rowlmg Grren. Georgia. Kansas. \larvland. Memphis State. Miami nl Ohui. \hssissippi State, Richmoml. Tu· lane. t..:tah. 
UPI Ratings 
The l'nited Press International's Roard ol Coaches major college foot· ball ratings with numller ol first place vott•s in parentheses: 
Points I Ohio Stale 2·0 (21) .. ~OR 2 \t•braska 3-0 (4) . 2RI :J South Cal 2-!1-1 (31f.!). . .237 4 . .-\tabama 3-0 (5)... . 2~0 5. ~hch•gan 3·0 (I) 201 

6. Oklahoma 1-IJ.I (l,ll) . .174 ; Penn State :J.O . 143 R TPnnesst•e 3-0 .121 !t. \olre Dame 2-0. . . 97 
10. I.SIJ 3-0 . 41 
II. Oklahoma St. J.o. . 30 12..~rizona St. J.O . II 
13. Houston J.O . . . 6 
H. S~lU J.O 5 
15. 
Missouri J.O 4 

16. 
(Tie) Tulane 2·0 . . .. 3 


16. (Tie) West Virginia 3·0 .. 3 IM. M1am1 ~·Ia. 2-G...... .. .. 2 19 Texas I· I .. . . . . .. . .. .. .. .. .. I 
(Only 19 tc-•l'ns rt>ceh·ed votes) 

GENERAL STAFF MEETING 
EVERY PERSON WHO DRAWS A CHECK FROM THE OBSERVER MUST ATTEND 
6:30 THURSDAY 
ROOM 2-D LAFORTUNE 

These Notre Dame students' sign expresses their opinion of the ranking of the Irish, but the AP and UPI had others. 
OBSERVER. 
SPORTS Young ND boaters tie 
by Hal Munger 

The Fighting Irish soccer team hasn't broken into the win column yet but they came a step closer this past weekend. The squad's 4-4 deadlock with Purdue-Calumet made things a little more bearable adding a tie to their 0-3 mark. The Irish were on top 3-0 after the end of the first half, but the homecoming crowd at Calumet spurred on their varsity squad in the second half to rally and just salvage the tie. 
Notre Dame started things off in high style. Their inspired play produced 2 goals within the first 4 minutes, and they added another goal before the half break. 
In the second half, Purdue-Cal. scored its catch-up goals and the Irish offense became shoddy­looking. One more tally entered the ND goal before the final whistle blew. 
Scoring for Notre Dame was Jafar Moghadam who came up with two goals, while the other two ND scores were by freshmen starting for the first time, John Thornton and Mike O'Driscoll. Jafar looked much better in the P­C battle. His defense is improved and he is working much harder all around. Frosh Thornton played a good game at halfback and got one of the scores. The other half of the freshman scoring duo is O'Driscoll whose point came on a lot of hustle. Mike and John are among five freshmen who could break into Coach Arno Zoske's lineup. 
Discussing the team and its development, Zoske states, "We're a very young team." Only three starters return from last year's squad which ended with eight straight wins. Attempting to ex­plain the lack of victories, Arno says, "We fall apart late in the game because we're not as strong condition-wise as our opponents. We must play more aggressively and stick to our game plan for the entire ninety minutes." 
Next on the tough ND schedule is an away match with Cincinnati Friday night. 










