On The Inside 
Schlaver on concessions ... page 7 
Macheca talks parties ... page 3 

Vol. VIII, No. 10 
-~--~--------~---· 
serving the notre dome -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, September 18, 1973 


SLC acts on student manual revision 
Parties and alcohol in dorm primary focus 
by Fl"~d Grayer Staff Reporter 

The Student Life Counc,l yesterday suspended usual procedure in order to quickly and efficiently handle the revision of the student manual and, in particular, the rule on ;;>arties involving alcohol in thedormitories 
Father Theodore Hes~urgh opened the first :neetir.g of the Council. His remarks were aimed at en­couraging the Council in their efforts as an organization set up to draw together students, faculty. and administration officials. He told the SLC he was grateful to them for making a commitment towards making the University a better community. 
revise it now 

,\ move was made by Student Affairs Preside~t 
Philip Faccenda to put aside the usual Council 
procedure so that the revision of ~h<' manu~! could ~e 
taken up. "We must do these thmgs now, h~ sa1~: 
"outside of our usual pace, and do them more qmckly. 
The student manual is usually revise·! in May so that 
it can go into effect in September. La year, though. 
•.he revision was not completed at ,he end of the semester. Mr. Faccenda with the help of others of the Council, worked over the summer to form a first draft of the revisions. "I didn't think it would make any difference who made up the draft we would start the discussion with," he said. 
The Council moved quickl:y io dbcuss the rules on 
alcohol. By the existing rules r.o student may buy or 
sell alcoholic beverages oncampus. Also. the ~s~ d 
alcohol is confined to the private roomf and prohibited 
in any public place on campus. . . 

Mr. Faccenda explained the evolutlun of thiS Ia":', 
and cited the need for revision by telling the council 
that parties in the dormitones had 60tt~n so out of hand 
that his office sometimes had to deal With students who 
were leaving the campus because they could n:,d no 
other place to study on ca ~'pus than a carrel m the 
library. 

The StudentAffairs office has taken a new stand on all rules this year. It is felt that the former policy of "benign neglect" was wrong in that it offered the student no consistent syst"m of justice. 

. . Phillip Faccenda: "We must .. .find more creative ways of socializing." 
"We can't continue to have rules that we are not living up to." said Faccenda. "We have to say what we mean and do what we say." 

acceptable gatherings 

He then listed the three types of gatherings that would be acceptable under his first draft of tht~ revision. 
The first is a gathering of a few people in a r0om, quiet enough to be unnoticed by someone passing by in the hall. 
The second iis a large hall event, held somewhere in the hall so that others trying to study orre•:-dwould not be disturbed. 
The third is a large campus event, held in a public place such as the barn on Bulla Road, the large building behind Holy Cross Hall, or the LaFortune student center. Student would bring their own alcoholic beverages to these, but the use of alcohol would be "second~>ry to their personal interaction." 
The guidelines to the revision state: "We must challenge one another to find more creative ways of socializing." Various activities were suggested b? Mr. FaccenG'l as examples of creative socializing, such as swimmin;1 or ice skating parties on the lake. 
"We didn't want brawls," h•! said. "Mature us-: of alcohol in the tradHion of this campus will be t::•'­phasiz«:>d." He then pointed out that using alumHi weekends as examples was not what he had in mind. 
Prof. J1'hn .Koos headed one of two main arguments on the revisi.ms as stated in the draft. He said that the crucial i!!'sues centered on "imposed marality", and that the cou.'lcil should question the legislation of :norality in this situation. 
Edward Rahill added to this by saying: "A student should have a say in his own life. We cannot force an individual to accept another's standards." 
The other argument was based on the fact that the revision takes a low view of gatherings in dorms. even though they are considered by many to be the cente1 of social life on campus. 

three alternatives 
The Council has three alternatives open to them now. 

They can pass Mr. Faccenda 's draft of the revisions; vote to maintain the rules as they stood last year, which are gomg to be enforced more strictly than last year according to Faccenda; or draft a new revision. 
The Council moved to adjuurn and meet again this 
Wednesday at 4:30. They will meet twice a week from 
now until ··:hey decide upon a final revision. 
In other SLC business, Margaret Ferguson was re­elected as Secretary, and all vacancies were an­nounced filled. 
Tax reforms threaten ND endowments 
that right when it made charitable con­
tributions deductible to so:ne extent." 
Frick pointed out that three particular measures are being considered in limiting charitable contributions. The first mechanism is putting a floor on deductions. Under this proposal an individual's total amount of charitable donations would have to be above a certain percentage of his gross income to qualify for a deduction. 
The second mechanism would limit the deductibility of donations in appreciated securities. An individual can deduct only a certain percentage of the appreciated value of the donated stocks and securities. 
The third mechanism would restirct the percentage of an estate that can be willed to a charitable institution. Some states, notably New York, already have such a limitation. 
Although Frick admits that tax abuses must be corrected, he defends such con­trovesial loopholes as the oil depletion allowance. He objects most strongly to those contributions that benefit the donor directly. He believes that such donations should not be deductible. 
Frick, who helped advise the Congress about the 1969 Tax Reform Bill, is confident that the nation's lawmakers will not in­tentionally damage charitable institutions. 
"The Congress is interested in equitable collection of tax income. I am convinced of their sincerity thst it is not their intent to hurt 
philanthropy," said Frick.
.. 


by Terry Keer.ey Staff Rep01-ter 

Notre Dame is in danger of losing much of its financial endowment if tax reform proposals currently being considered by Congress become law. James W. Frick, vice president for public relations and develop­ment, warns that Congress may be over­zealous in closing tax loopholes by restricting tax deductions for charitable contributions. 
"I don't know of very many people against tax reform," Fric observed. "But we may get into the situation of throwing the baby out with the bath water." 
The House Ways and Means Committee is in the process of writing a new tax reforrh law. There is some sentiment in Congress that tax deductions for donations to charities including private educational institutions should be controlled. These tax deductions enable many potential donors to Notre Dame to make contributions. 
Frick opposes proposals to close the charitable deductions loophole for two reasons. First, if these proposals became law, donations to the university would be severely curtailed. Second, Frick believes that such measures would restrict an in­dividual's freedom to help his fellow man. 
"These proposals would take away from my right to help my fellow man the way I see fit," said Frick. Congress originally granted Tuesday, September 18, 1973
1. the observer 



warld 
briefs 
London -Terrorist bombings, blamed on Irish extremists, continued Monday in Britain. Abombexploded in the ,face of an army disposal expert outside an office bui~~ing in the industrial city of Birmingham. The man wa~ cri~ICally wound~d.. A postman found the bomb during a m~1l delivery to the buildmg . Police evacuated the area and called m bomb experts. As one of them walked toward the bomb, it went off. 
Dublin -British Prime Minister Edward Heath and Irish Premier Liam Cosgrave met in near wartime security in Dublin Monday. They discussed measures to end the four years of sectarian violence in Northern Ireland. Heath is expected to seek Cosgrave's aid in crushing the outlawed Irish Republican Army which has admitted leading the bomb and bullet cam­paign in Ulster. 
New York-Federal Judge Lee Gagliardi Monday reset the start of the trial of former Nixon cabinet officers John Mit­chell and Maurice Stans to Oct. 23. Attorneys for former At­torney General Mitchell and former Commerce Secretary Stans had asked the delay to give them time to prepare for trial. Mitchell and Stans are accused of conspiracy and obstruction of justice in connection with a contribution to Nixon's re-illection campaign. 
Stockholm· Preliminary figures Monday show the late vote counting from Sweden's parliamentary elections have turned into a deadlock. Socialists and non-socialists each hold 176 seats. 
The development in the seesaw battle between Premier Olof Palme's social democratic government and the three non­socialist opposition parties came only hours after election headquarters had predicted a socialist majority of one seat. 
Detroit -Chrysler Corp. and the United Auto Workers an­nounced agreement Monday on a three-year contract that eases mandatory overtime rules but grants union workers less money than they wanted. _ 
Agreement came after a strike that lasted 63 hours -the c;hortest national strike in UAW history. 
an campus laday 
4:30 pm . seminar, biochemical and hormonal aspects of ovarian development in aedes aegypty, dr. morton s. fuchs, department of biology, galvin life science auditorium 
7:00pm. placement night, for nd-smc seniors, graduate and law students, demonstration job Interviews, engineering auditorium 
7:00-11:00 pm -open house, bulla shed, everyone welcome, corner of bulla and juniper rds 

Ill nd-amc 
, ~ 
! 
t Pomps Tissues make short work of beautiful floats and decorations. They're flame-resistant, 6" x 6" squares in 20 brilliant weather-proof colors that won't run or lade. 
Get Pomps at your college bookstore or order direct. And for great ideas on making floats and decorations. ask your librarian for "How To Decorate With Pomps", or get your own copy for $1.25. For booklet or Pomps, write: 
Brown lectures on christology 
by Zenon Bidzinski Starr Reporter 
Father Raymond E. Brown, renowned biblical scholar, speaking here Sunday night on the modern history of Christology, said that "our relationship to God is defined and sitinguished by our relation to Jesus" and that "we define our religion in terms of the Christological question." He surveyed the different reactions toward Chrsitology during the 20th century, the period of most ex­tensive research on this subject. 
His speech, "Whod do men say that I am?", focussed on the evolution of modern Christology from Bousset's work in 1913 to current Christological writings. Brown broke the different ap­proaches in this period into five gouprs: simple-liberalims, scholarly liberalism, existenialism, scholarly con­servativism, and simple con­servativism. 
Simple liberalism states that only important aspect of Jesus' life was his moral teachg. Simple conservativism, the oppostie extreme, states that Jesus' life is correctly protrayed in the Gospels. according to Rrown, those two 



Police blotter 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 
A few minor incidents occured 
on campus this weekend, reported 
Arthur Pears, security director. 
A stereo-radio tape player with 
speakers and three tapes, all 
valued at $67, were taken from a 
car in the D-2 parking lot. A 
blanket and gear shift knob were 
also reported missing from a car in 
the C-3 parking lot. 
A $200 bicycle was stolen from 
the vicinity of Holy Cross Hall and 
one was reported taken "between 
9:16 and 9:17" Monday night near Breen-Phillips. 
Two gates at the Notre Dame main entrance were damaged, Pears said. 
A wallet containg a student ID and credit cards and car keys were reported lost. Pears also noted some damage to an auto antenna. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semHter except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester IS14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
~!loft'""""!: .';•;:~,' ,' ;;;•:• ,,; ~;:·:.· ::-...~':]::· .··:· :·~ 
..~~·.... \~.~ ~~~:~: -~~ f:·:~ .. 
·~· ""'' ,.. ... .......,.,,,,.. ·~· .... 
The Crystal Tissue Company Middletown, Ohio 45042 

positions are the least scholarly church had divinized Jesus so that but are held by 95 per cent of the people would listen [0 his people. Thus, he was not con­teachings. Bousset proved, ac­cerned with these two but only with cording to Brown, that some of the the remaining three. terms used by the church to 
Scholarly liberalism was the describe Jesus had never actually first position elaborated on by been used in Jesus' time, thus Brown. Bousset held to this destroying the churrch 's Christology and siad that the credibility factor. 


It sure would be great to have all the time you need for all the things you like to do, And If your readlns work load is keeping you from some of the finer things, here's an lmpor· tant suggestion. Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will show you how to read 3 to 10 times faster with equal or better com­prehension. Once you've mastered Evelyn Wood's method, your reading and studying time will be drastically reduced. You'll know some important secrets of test-taking and be able to keep up better with your studies • as well as those social activities you're missing now. Time • that's what it's all about. Do something about it now. 
ATTEND A FREE SPEED READING LESSON INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED UP TO 100% ON THE SPOT 

TODAY and TOMMORRO at 6 and 8 pm Center For Continuing Education Notre Dame Avenue 
~ Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Institute 
up to 100% on the spot 

r 
ll ~ 

~.:_~Ptember 18, 1973 the observer 
3 




Macheca 
by Pat Hanifn Starr Reporter 
John Macheca, Dean of Students, aid last night in in a taped interview with WSND that the present ban on hall parties and use of alcohol results from a consensus decision that there could be no chance for progress if we "do not start from where we are" In enforcing presently existing laws. 
At the same time he said that the central staff does believe that there is room for improvement if it is done by due process. Macheca foresaw no major difficulty in enforcing the present rule. 
The central staff spent the summer in a series of discussions that blended different viewpoints to form a consensus on what policy in this and other matters should be, according to Macheca. "It was an evolutionary process that worked toward unanimity." he said. 
Besides the members of the central staff, ten rectors, some of the R.A.'s, and an ad hoc group of students who were available on campus, also took part in the formulation of policy. Macheca agreed that these groups were not fully representitive of the university community but pointed out that members of the com­munity could make their position known to the Student Life Council 
Sandock Says ... 
"A ROOM WITHOUT A RUG IS LIKE A KISS 
WITHOUT A HUG!" 
CARPET 
EMNAN 
SALE 
SAVEl 
UP 



TO 78% 
PERFECT FOR DORM OR APARTMENT! HURRY 
Shop and save at Carpet .way! Choose from lOOOO's of 1st quality remnants! You'll find bargains like 1~' x 5' rugs worth up to $99 for only $19.23; 12' x 9' rugs worth up to $199 for only $58.65! All remnants cash. 
carry for biggest savings! 
Hurry for best selection. 
'Michiana's Carpet King
•v;l·t·a,.
\ CARPET-WAY l
L ~~---~~-~ ~d 
50760 U.S. 31 NORTH 3 Miles North of NO ... Near the State Line. 


discusses party ban 
which is holding hearings on tne 
matter this week. 
The Dean of Students also argued that the present situation results from the enforcement of a rule that is already on the books and therefore rests on r;~spect for rules. 
"In order to improve things", he said, "we have to start from where we stand now and proceed from there through due process' which means 
that the SLC must approve any changes int the rules". He and the 
central  staff  cannot  act  
autonomously.  
Besides  his  views  on  due  
process,  Dean  Macheca  also  

discussed his views on what the rules about alcohol should be and what he is trying to accomplish. The recommendations call for the use of alcohol in controlled and supervised gatherings created wih student leadersip. 
While Macheca admitted that the new rules would be a step backward for some dorms he said that they would create a consistent university-wide stance that would liberalize policy in some other dorms. He favors the "reasonable use of alcohol" but is worried about its abuse and hopes that the end result of the current difficulties and proposals will be an improvement in the quality of life in the dorms. 
"I hope the new rules will promote creativity and imagination on the part of the halls in serving the needs of the residents." he commented. 
Macheca has not noted any serious opposition to enforcing the rules on the part of rectors. assistant rectors, and resident assistants. He 'realizes' that some will find it difficult to enforce a rule that they regard as a step backward" but said that no one had refused outright. "I hope that the students, R.A.'s and rectors will find it within themselves to go along with this rule" he concluded. 

Ladies of Columbus Meeting ·· 7 p.m. Tuesday · Sept. 18 Council Chambers refreshments 
Beat the numbers ... 
The world's first calculators that challenge computers and fit into your pocket. 
Are you spending too much time solving prob­lems the old-fashioned way-with slide rule, ordinary calculator or paper and pencil? 
Solve problems in seconds, with one of the same calculators used by professionals in your field-the HP-35 Scientific Pocket Calculator, the HP-45 Advanced Scientific Pocket Calcu­
tator, or the HP-80 Business Pocket Calculator. 
Hewlett-Packard calculators give you more pow­er, more accuracy, more storage registers and more features than ordinary calculators. For example, the HP-35 gives you up to 10 digit accuracy, a floating decimal point, and a range of 200 decades (10-99 to 1099). The HP-45 a/so gives you automatic conversions, offers you a choice of fixed or scientific notation, and per-
COME IN TODAY FOR A FREE DEMONSTRATION of the complete line of Hewlett-Packard pocket calculators 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
= 


HEWLETTif1JPACKARD 
S~les! se~i~t: ~nd SUf?~O!t.ill F2 centers in 65 countries 
forms register and vector arithmetic. And the HP-80 is pre-programmed with 3 dozen financial functions. 
Right now, an HP calculator can help you get better grades, because it ... 
• 
SAVES TIME in solving problems-just press the keys! 

• 
GUARANTEES ACCURACY for fewer mistakes 

• 
OFFERS COMPUTER-LIKE POWER (no wait­ing for school machine) 

• 
REPLACES TABLES AND PAPER-AND-PEN­CIL CALCULATIONS 

• 
OPERATES SILENTLY for use in ;lassroom, library or dorm 

• 
GOES ANYWHERE (fits in pocket or purse; weighs but 9 ounces) 


·-·--~ .. ----... 
'­
j 
---·­

THE OBSERVER 
Allende: Fall of the 
Last Paint 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry lutkus 
Art Ferranti Dan Barre«
Editor-in-Chief 
Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 
Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos Advertising Manager
Business Manager BUSINESS~· 283-7471 
Tuesday, September 18, 1973' 
Over A Barrel 
The SLC got off to an uncharacteristic start Monday. The suspension of the rules, thanks to Dr. Phillip Faccenda, opened the meeting up so that the talk could get to the heart of the maaer--the revision of tl;e student manual and the "parties rule." 
As it stands now, Faccenda has the SLC over barrel. If they agree with his new regulations, there is no problem. But, and the tenure of the meeting suggests this, if the SLC does not take too highly to the central staff's revisions, there's a problem. 
Three Alternatives 

The SLC has three alternatives. First, they can pass the new rules simply to push the "no party" regulations off the books But in the process, they would be indicating their agreement with the central staff. But indicators point out that this is not the mood of the body. 
Their second alternative is not to pass the regulations. But this is highly unlikely and is the situation where Faccenda holds the greatest political strength. If the SLC rejects the regulations, they will be acquiesing to the regulations now in effect. What this means is that they would OK a con­tinuation of the "no party" policy--a policy that offers no alternatives for students. Furthermore, it is a policy that the central staff is determined to enforce as long as it exists on the books. Their strict enforcement is their way of pushing thenew regulations on the SLC. Itis -:!lear that this is not the path for the SLC to take. 
The third path is to draw up new guidelines for the student manual, particularly regarding the area of the student parties. This path sounds gond, but in actuality, there's not too much leeway here. The university has made it clear that they are determined to remove the atmosphere of "benign neglect" from the enforcement of ·certain student statutes. So, any revision that would necessitate "neglect" would be unac­ceptable to the administration members of the SLC. Als, if the body passed a proposal of this order, it would more than gkely falL on deaf ears as many SLC 
...........-..-------­
proposals of the past have. 

Further, if they consider revisions, these changes have to stay within the hound aries that the Inidana alcohol statute enforces. The university must accept responsibility for students that are drinking on their premises with apparent university approval and are injured or injure someone else even after they leave the scene. 


daanesbury~~· 
varry trud•au 
::-'inally, if they decide to revise the statutes, the "no party" regulations now 
i:I effect will remain in effect until the revision is completed. 
Result is Clear 
So, the result seems pretty clear. The SLC doesn't have much of a choice. Of the· three alternatives pesented them, only one seems acceptable, but it must be acceptable with some things in mind. 
By and large, it should be the hall's responsibility to decide what is good for its residents within the statutes set down by the university. Thus, if a hall feels that it would not be unacceptable for "section parties"to expand out into the hallways, considering of course that the party has the OK and is participated in by all the members of the section and that the noise level is not unbearable. 
It is clear that the university cannot distinctly prohibit parties that are larger than room size and they realize that. Students require the outlet that parties supply either through some form of section party or a designated party spot in the hallthis outlet can be fulfilled. 
Years ago, we learned that you cannot legislate against drunkedness in the Prohibition. Likewise, you cannot expect the new regulations to prevent drunkenness. It is going to exist even if you shut off the section party outlet. What results insteadis students either a) getting drunk by themselves in a non­
social  atmosphere  or  b)  driving  to  
Michigan  to  drink  and  endangering  
themselves and the others  on  the road.  

The SLC's Assignment 
The SLC is facing a tough assignment. They sould vote for the revision of the student manual, but they must make it very clear that with their yes votes go a pledge that the social necessities of the students not be ignored. 
Jerry Lutkus 
the observer 

Night Editor: Kathy Schwille 
Ass't. Night Editor: Robert Baker (infectious) Layout: Tim O'Reiley Typists: Barb Norcross, Carole Rodenstelher, Dianne 
Chermside, Howard Halle. 
Sports: Craig Gargan, Peggy Lawlor, Vic Dorr (home early) Pictures: Rondo Myecin Night controller: John Flannigan 
Pragmatic Idealist 
j. napier 

"What the bourgeosie, therefore, produces, above all, is its 
own grave diggers." 
Communist M~:'1if!'sto 

Allende! A heretic of the faith, a violator of the word of Marx but a martyr inthe end. So may read the epitaph of the bold experimenter in political philosophy. 
"The national leader, Allende , scoffed at the prophetic words of the violent manifesto and the pragmatic advice of Castro. Rather than seeking his proletariat revolution by force as these men insisted, Allende grasped the leadership of a major nation by peaceful, democratic means." And so the eulogies will spew forth. 
But history will reveal a different man. Apart from recording his 
soon  to  be found  sanctity, history will  rem·~mber  Salvador  
Allende Gossens as both a pragmatist and an idealist.  
The  political  situation  of late  1969  would  only  accomodate  a  

democratic transition in government. First of 1.11, the Chilean army was competent and devoted to the democracy. Secondly, Chile had .iust finished its most productive six years under the leadership of retiring President Eduardo Frei, so the general popluace possessed an t-J:cellent confidence in the government. Plainly summarized, no one wc.s in the mood for the "grave digging" Marxist revolution called for in the manifesto. 
In addition to the impossibility of a revolution, Allende ··ecognized the fragmented Chilean political scene offered him a perfect op­portunity for the easiest off all ascensions to the Presidency --via elet·tion. Becuause of Frei's inability to find a successor to unify his cualition, Allende's opponents's power had ·dissipated drastically. Thus, Allende never had to make a choice between violence and non­violence, but from this pragmatic election sprung the bluespringladen with economic idealism which would eventually lead to the South American President's demise. 
Supoorters acclaimed Allendeas thenew light of peaceful Marxism. South American communists announced the end to Castro terrorism and the beginning of democratic Marxism. No longer would the Red flag be a symbol of terror and blood , but a banner of democratic liberty and freedom of choice. 
Despite their praise, the legend spinners' rhetoric WllS not enough to bolster the swooning Chilean economy. Allende's idealistically swift nationalization, without real compensation of foreign in­vestments in copper, transportation and communications, tacked a "keep out" sign all along the Chilean borders. The consequences of Chile's rash nationalizations vibrated throughout the economy. Im­mediately, Chile lost the services of skilled foreign technologists. Production from her life-line mines quickly plummetted. Foreign and even Chilean investment promptly learned Chile was no place for developrr ent. 
As a direct result of this obviously perilous-economic state, Chile's credit became nonexistant. Without credit, without investrr.ent, with decre11sing production and the world's highest inflation, Chile's Marxisteconomicrevolutionwas gasping for air, critically woundea. 
Strikes ef\sued. Small truck drivers, ostensibly angered by threats of nationalization and an inability to obtain parts for their vehicles refused to drive. Allende, the pacifist, threatened armed action, but deadlines passed without the drivers capitulation. Meanwhile, the besieged Chilean economy remained crippled and dying, until this week when tt:.e revolution toppled the governr:J.ent. 
The truckers had apparently won their fight. The strike of these petty bourgeoisie succeeded in bringing Allende's Marxism to an end. Allende's nonviolent, economic ;dealism crumbled under Marx's test of pragmatism. 
Tomorrow Chile is today's tragedy. F10m the rich state left by the Frei years, 5he has fallen to almost :amentable position. Chile will undoubtedly experience a left wing backlash, but with the army in firm opposition the left wing will probably be subdued. 
Since Chile possesses an honored tradition of democratic govern­ment, the return to a democratic civilian government should occur as soon as possible. Economic rebuilding will undoubtedly be the major priority of any future government. If the new government assumes a more moderate attitude towards nationalization and if a leader of Eduardo Frei proportions surfaces, Chile will recuperate from her mghtmare presently. 
But now a new question hangs in abeyance. Now that Allende has apparently failed, what ever happened to Castro's guerillas'? A Haunting Criticism 
If Marx were alive today, he would laugh and then cry at what he would call Allende's foolishness. Marx would delclare the Chilean President missed the basic tenet of his philosophy. "Men's souls are made of their money," Marx would have told Allende. "You can only take a man's money by ending him becuase he won't part with it any other way. Allende, you were not practical enough. You must not have remembered Stalin, Lenin and Mao." 
Thank God, you were not as practical as they, Mr. Allende. 



Tuesday, September lil, 1973 
the observer 
5 

ND security devises trial anti-theft program 
by Jane Thornton Dean of Students and Director of Staff Reporter Security, the program will begin 
Operation Hallmark, a new anti­when the hall government recruits theft measure devised by the a sufficient number of student security office, will be activated volunteers. soon using Holy Cross Hall as a Diamond point pens will be used pilot. According to John Macheca, to etch personal property with the 

Which weekend is homecoming this year and are there any extra lickets available to students for that weekend's football game? 
The weekend of, o,~tober· 26th thru the 28th is Homecoming here at ND this fall. Festivities include the Homecoming Party and the Carpenters Concert which is s<:heduled_ for Saturday night, October 27th at 8:30P.M. in the ACC. T11.:kets Will cost $6.50, $5.50, and ~~-00. 
As for extra football tickets, the situation is not a~ all prom1smg, since the game on Homecoming Weeke':ld is against 'Southern Cal <USC>. Student Union has ordered 500 tickets for the USC ga~e for student use. The location of where the seats a~e to be ?e m t~e stadium is still under consideration by the ACC T1~ket Office._ Th1s is due to the fact that certain Alumni orders are still to be fulfilled. However, a good guess would be that the _seats will probably ~e located in the north end zone area. Also, It should be ~oted th~t these tickets wdl be sold in some sort of package. Most likely, th1s package will included tick~ts to the Homecoming Party or some similiar event along with tickets for the Carpenters Concert. Further information should be forthcoming in the weeks to come as certain plans are finalized. 
When is Campus Press open? 
Campus Press is open from 1 P.M. to 5 P .M Monday thru Frirlay. 
It is located in the southeast corner of the base~ent of. the LaFortune Student Center and is able to handle m1meo , ~iltt~, xerox, and photo offset work. Prices are reasonable and qu~hty IS excellent. However, it should be noted that there are_certam time requirementson large or detailed orders. If you w1~h, you ~an contact Campus Press by phone at 7047 for further mformatwn during its office hours. 
Who sold the rugs in the Fieldhous~ at the beginning of this semester? 
Mter a good deal of effort, it was discoved that the company who IL--~w;::;ar;s sclil'ii;Ttirn;ttit?'tn".Jl,.~,....P;'ints in the Fieldhou~e w~'.> th_e ~a~e. 
outfit that was selling rugs. Thirn~f the f•~.;.n Is W1lhan:~' Paint Factory and its address is 2609 South~::tn. As forne rugs, it seems that their store doesn't have any left. irrrhr matter of a rug being defective, it is recommended that you should register your complaint with Student Activities as well as with the firm in 
question. 
Who do I see about getting permission for a Hot Dog Stand? 
You should stop in at the Student Activities Office which is located off the main lobby of the LaFortune Student Cetner and see the secretary about getting a request form for such an operation. This is especially the case with regard to football weekends. By the way, the Student Activities Office is open 8:30A.M. to 5 P.M. Monday thru Friday with the exception of the noon hour . 

.-----------------------------------------------I 
TONIGHT AT 8 P.M. ! 
ANN CORIO WANTS YOU 
TO SEE WHAT YOUR FATHER HAD TO SNEAK INTO CHICAGO FOR, WHEN HE WAS AT NOTRE 
DAME. M 0 R R I S C I V I C AUDITORIUM -presents 
THIS WAS BURLESQUE featuring ANN CORIO See her nostalgic musical satire of what burlesque was in the 30's and 40's. (Baggy-pants comedians, strip teasers, an out of step chorus line and all.) 
1 PERFORMANCES STARTING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 
18th 

TUES, Wi::D, THURS, FRI 8pm SAT 6 & 9:!1o, SUN 7:30 
STUDENT DISCOUNT: 
1/~ l"r-ice on the $5.00 an $4.00 seal::> , Tues, Wed Thurs, Bpm & :at 6pm) Show ND-SMC lu or eli this ad. 
TICKETS ON SALE llam TO SHOWTIME AT fl1oRRIS CIVIC BOX OFFICE, 211 N. MICHIGAN AVE., DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND. 232-6954 ; 
.. 
owner's Social Security number as volunteers move from door to door on a hall-to-hall schedule this semester. Stickers pasted on the door stating that the occupants have participated in the project are hoped to deter would-be thiefs. The Social Security number will aid police in returning recovered property to the owner. 
Defining his administrative security role, Macheca stated, "Basically, I am concerned with the needs of the community, all 
members of the community, con­cerning their safety and the security of their property." 
The security office as such often gets the job that no one else wants to do. Security is basically a police organization. The big thing is that they shouldn't be distasteful jobs just because other people don't 
Bulla shed 
starts with 
open house 
The Bulla Shed, Notre Dame's 
newest 'center,' opens it's first full 
year of operation tonight with an 
open house from 7pm to llpm. 
Refreshments will be served. 
Renovated last year by a group 
of students in cooperation with 
Campus Ministry, the tiny cottage 
at the corner of Bulla and Juniper 
Roads is a drop-in place for ND­
SMC ,;tudents. It is a place to talk 
with friends and meet new ones. Ii. 
is also used to study, or to take a 
break from study, as well as for 
group meetings, dinners, and 
liturgies. 
Dring the year, Bulla Shed hours 
• w~l be from 6pm to lam every day 
.. 
.. 

want to do them." 
Macheca cited responsibility regarding some disciplinary problems as being inappropriately delegated to the security office, but added that there will be certain roles or functions that will be both campus security and disciplinary "as it should be." 
Security on campus, personnel­wise, consists of hall monitors, regular foot patrolmen, gate of­ficer, three mobile units, the security office itself which houses the dispatcher, clerical personnel 
SENIORS 
Sign up for yearbook photos in 2-C LaFortune. Pictures being taken Monday thru Friday 9-1 and 2-6. Call 3557 and make your appointment 
Earn $100 a rr1onth and a Marine Corps commission through the Platoon Leaders Class. 
Eligible college men can earn $1 00 a month each month of the regular school year. It's like a $900 annual scholarst,ip. 
The Marines 

today through Friday
are looking for 
noon and eveni11g meals 
a few good men. 
dining hcHs free posters, stickers, and combat art 
The PLC also offers a 
few good men the 
chance to learn to fly 
free. The Corps pays 
the entire cost of 
civilian flight instruction 
...worth c.bout $800. 
All PLC leadership training takes place during the summer when it can't interfere with your college career. Upon graduation PLC members are commissioned Second Lieutenants. 
and facilities, an investigative officer, and the director of 
security. The personnel is charged with the physical security of the cam­pus, which includes grounds and buildings, as well as the personal safety of the members of the community. In particular responsibility fc;>r enforcement of traffic and parking regulations night escort, automobile, bicycl~ and property registration fall under the duties of the security
office. 



the observer Tuesday, September 18, 1973
6 Open to seniors 
Placement nights offer job possibilities 
by Mike Kulczycki 
Staff Re~orter 

Placement Nights scheduled September 18-19 at the Engineering Auditorium, for ND· SMC seniors, M.B.A. students, graduate and law students receiving degrees, will initiate the Notre Dame Placement -Bureau's services for 1973-1974. Placement manuals, registration forms and interview materials will be available. according to Richard Willemin, Director of the Placement Bureau. 
Placement Nights will also feature demonstration job in­terviews followed by critiques and question-answer periods, directed by Professor W. Goulet of the Finance Department and Willemin. These will be live in­terviews, conducted by Sears Roebuck and Co., Firestone Rubber and Tire Co., and Bendix Corp. 
Tuesday, September 18, is planned for Arts and Letters, Business Administration, M.B.A. and Law, while Wednesday, September 19, is set for Science, Engineering, M.B.A. and Law. Meetings each night will start at the Engineering Auditorium at 7 
p.m. and are expected to last until 9 p.m. 
Placement Manuals will be available at the Placement Nights only to students holding the green IBM Placement Bureau registration form, received with the registration packet last week. Manuals had been delayed by a printer's strike and a materials shortage, but Willemin expected 
Toohey plans new activities to broaden campus ministry 
by Larry Stanton Staff Reporter 

Fr. William Toohey, Qirector of Campus Ministry, explained the new activities which the office will co-ordinate this year. 
The Bulla Shed, the barnlike building across from the library, will be the center of many of Campus Ministry's activities. Fr. Toohey describes the Bulla Shed as "an alternative to the screaming scene of the residence halls". It's a place for meetingsor just getting together and will be available for individuals or groups to reserve. 
Today there will be an open house at the Bulla Shed. Everyone is welcome to see it and learn of some of the activities taking place 
there. 

Four "weekend experiences" at the Old College are also planned for this semester. They will last from Friday evening through Sunday noon and feature &orne interesting man of the University. The first will be a weekend with Fr. John Dunne, the second Morton Kc!.;ey and Fr. Maurice Amen, the third Fr. Tom Srecca, and the fourth Fr. James .Burt­chael. These weekends will be limited to 25 students each and will be announced well in advance. 
The Campus Ministry staff also plans to get as resource personnel for the halls in the areas of drug counseling, liturgy planning, or programs in social .::onsciousness. There are also long range plans to co-ordinate a major symposium on abortion. 
Fr. Schilts, of the off-campus office, is also working with Campus Ministry in hopes that some plans can be made for the off­campus students. 
Indiana humanities committee slates abortion conference in CCE 
National and local authorities will participate in a two-<lay conference, "Government, the Family, and Abortion," by the Indiana Committee for the Humanities in the University of Notre Dame's Center for Con­tinuing Education September 26­
27. This second program in "'"' ongoing series of public education follows six public discussions held in neighborhood centers and churches of South Bend. A final round of discussions is planned during October. The conference goal, according to Dr. A. Edward Manier, associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, "is an opl!n discussion and debate of issues leading to a mature sense of community responsibility on this ~ important issue." Afternoon and evening con­
i• ference sessions will deal with a sociologica\ overview of the meeting's theme, medical and legal backgrounds, and ethical and 
I I religious positi0t~s. Also under discussion will be the new role of woman, parenth<>•d and the family, and commun•tv support for 
• 
~ the quality and autornony of family life. t · • • • • , • 

Ministers of non-Catholic Joe McTaggart. McTaggart denominations are being contacted replaces Fr. Lally and Fr. to conduct services for students of Schlauer, who have both moved other religions. There is already into administrative positions. an Episcopal service every Thursday at 6:30pm in Holy Crq~s Hall conducted by Rev. Lee· Mr­chaell of the theology department. Baptist, Presbyterian ~nd Lutheran services are bemg 
SIDD 
is th_!t
planned.There hope ·~!.-~~.!2~~---t-~~~~V'J:j:1~rf
Ministry can mak.r. use of the .Observer by expanding 
tnetr weekly feamre regular contribution.  to  a  more  
Advisory  groups  are  being  

formed to come up with other ideas for the office. These groups will be made up on homogeneous interest groups such as women, black students, faculty members, etc. Through these groups Campus Ministry hopes to come up with -more services which will be beneficial to the entire University 
community. 
The Campus Ministry staff consists ofFr. Toohey, Fr. Thomas Mc1\lally, Fr. Robert Griffin. Sr. Jane Pitz, Fr. Thomas Stella, and a r.ew addition to the staff, Brother 
Notre Dame participants in the conference are Dr. Hans Ver­wayen, assistant professor of theology; Dr. Charles E. Ric-e, professor of law; Dr. William Liu, director of the Center for Study of­an; Dr. ftichard Kurtz, chatrman of e1e Department of Sociology and Anthropology; Dr. Stanley Hauerwas, assistant professor of theology; and Manier, conference director. 
shipment of the manuals this 
weekend. 

ND or SMC seniors who did not 
z·eceive a card, or misplaced it, can 
pick up the manuals after Sep­
tember 19 at the Placement 
Bureau Office, 222 Adrranistration 
Building. 

The Placement Manuals contain 
articles on career planning, in­
terviewing, -esume preparation, in 
addition to alphabetical, 
geographical and occupational 
listings of national employers. 
Willemin said preparations that 
students should make for the 
recruiting season will also be 
discussed at Placement Nights. 
"In addition to the Placement 
Nights, the Bureau will have Open 
House every afternoon 0:30-4:30) 
September 24-27," according to 
Willemin. Monday, October 8, was 
also established as the first day of 
on-campus employer interviews. 
"Students will be permitted to 
sign the employe's interview list 
during the Open House, and pick 
up employer's literature." 
Willemin said visits to the in­
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Erratum 

Yesterday's Observer Insight article on the first SLC meeting contained an error in a quotation attributed to Mike Hess, on page 7. 
The correct text of the quote should have been, "The ad­ministration has kind of left us in the dark with regard to the statement by Dean Macheca and the new manual." 
COLUMBIA PICTURES PRESENTS A FILM BY CONRAD ROOKS HERMANN HESSE'S SIDDHAIITHA ·STARRING SHASHI KAPOOR SIMI GAREWAL • PRODUCED. DIRECTED AND WRITIE'I FOR THE SCREEN BY CONRAD ROOKS· PHOTOGRAPHED BY SVEN NYICVIST 
PANAVISION• 

~IT::l~~~~:JJ'tiiflill 
Last chance to or er a REFRIGERATOR 3 cubi'. ~et-$40 a year 
) ... ~e delivery free pick-up free replacement if faulty 
Call 3834 or 7789 Monday or fuesday ( l-4 p.m.) \ 
.' ~ ' 

-------..J 
terviewing and sign-up rooms and the acceptance of the completed registration forms will also be part of the Open House. Refreshments of cookies and coffee will be available. 
Willemin added, "The sign up period will continue through the week of October 1, and students may continue to sign up anytime between the hours of 8-5, Monday through Friday." 
Summarizing prospects, Willemin reported that more companies are planning to in­terview on campus than last year He said approximately three hundred companies have been scheduled for the fall and spring. He expects more companies to sign up for spring interviews. Willemin stated, "If the economy con­tinues at the present level, the number of employers visiting campus this year would surpass the number of 1968-1969." 
Willemin attributes the addition of two dozen new companiesto the strength of the economy and the expansion of new industries which sell to the consumers. 
Willemin said, "The business outlook looks strong at the present time." He looks forward to an extremely busy fall and spring interviewing schedule with good job prospects for Notre Dame students. 

Simple. straight-forward, classic-out of step with today's throwaway culture. Refillable cartridge. ballpoint or fiber tip marker in basic tan or navy blue. $1.98: not bad for a pen you may use the rest of your life. 


$198 
SHEAFFER, WORLD-WIDE, A tiiininJCOMPANY 


-----~­
Tuesday, September 18, 1973 
the observer 

Schlaver limits weekend concession stands 
by Kurt Heinz Staff Reporter 
Food concessions on home football Saturdays, this year, will be affected by stricter en­forcement of registration and health guidelines, as well as higher meat prices, said Fr. Dave Schlaver, director of student ac­tivities. 
The same number of stands will be permitted as was last year, but the above facts could cause a drop in the number wanting to operate a stand, he said. 
For years, on Saturday mor­nings before home football games, there were a great number of hot dog stands. As alumni and various football fans flooded the campus, there was a stand at every corner of every sidewalk ready to grab their money. Unfortunately, with the unlimited number of stands, no one grabbed much money. In­stead, a lot of stands grabbed a little money . 
Last year, the University issued a limited number of permits in order to improve the situation. A lottery was held to determine who got what location for what game. As it turned out, each organizaion that applied was able to get a stand for two games. Fr. Schlaver plans to keep the 
Job placement 
manuels will 
arrive today 
by Janet Denefe Staff Reporter 
Placement manuals are ex­pected to arrive today and will be distributed at Placement Night in exchange for the green registration card said R. D. Willemin, director of the Placement Bureau. Placement nights will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week from 7-9 pm in the Engineering Auditorium. 
Willemin urges seniors to pick up these manuals which contain the schedule of all on-eampus job interviews as well as listing the many services that the Bureau offers. The recruitment schedule arranges the various companies in alphabetical and chronological order, tells where the job is located, and if citizenship is required. 
Companies and universities will begin recruiting the week of Oc­tober 8th. Students must sign up for an interview the preceding week anytime between 8-5 in the 
Placement  Bureau.  As  this  
procedure  will  be  followed  
throughout  the  year,  the  Ob­ 

wservor will prin! an updated schedule each week of the em­ployers that will recruit the following week. 
Employer literature is available at the Placement Bureau and also at an Open House for seniors, graduate students, and faculty which will be held the week 'lf September 24th from 1:30-4:::10 m the Bureau offices. 
Clubs interested •1n having HOT DOG STANDS on football weekends must sign up the Office of Student activities 
(first floor LaFortune) before 5:00 on Tuesday telephone 7308 
number of stands around the same as last year's. With registration still open to any organization until 5 p.m. Tuesday, Schlaver was uncertain as to whether a lottery will be needed. 
He indicated a decision will probably be made Wednesday. 
Any hall or club or organizatiom which has been registered with the University can apply for a permit 
to run a concession, Tuesday at the Student Affairs office at LaFor­tune, he said. 
Last year a number of students ran stands without permits", said Schlaver. "This year,theSecurity Department will be closing any stand without a permit." 
Schlaver also indicated that the 
Tr. Schlaver feels fewer stands wiD result in more money for the proprietflrs. 
Woody says: Join the 
NICKlE'S FOR 
LUNCH BUNCH 
Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m.-7 p.m. 
~ lb. Bourbon Burger 12 oz. bowl "Soup de Nickle's" LD Pint of Schlitz s1.50 


BELLE STYLING 
Hair Care Center for Men 
specializing in all types of hair styles and conditionings 
we use & recommed RK products 

ask for LARRY or DAVE(stylist) 
Monday thru Sat. at 684-4750 
located corner of Belle Rd. & U.S. 3 J in Belle Plaza -Niles, Mich. 
University will be closing down any stand not complying with the health guidelines set down by University Health and Safety Manager Edward Riley. Riley is employed to see that the University complies with the Occupational Safety and Health 
Act. 
Basically, the guidelines require that the area be kept clean and that no food come in contact with the ground or be touched by those 
running the stands. 
Riley has listed ll health requirements which are issued to all organizations as they sign up nor a permit. 
The currently inflated price of meat also figures to play a major role in the concession situation, 
Schlaver said. Even last year, This year's meat prices should with the restricted number of decrease that amount, Schlaver c­stands, the profit yield from such a mmented. stand was minimal. Nonetheless, the concessioms 
The average stand made bet-remain one of few sources of ween $50. and $60. according to a revenue for most clubs and study by the Student Affairs Office. organizations. 
---------------------------, 
SENIOR CLASS TRIP 
0~ TO ALLND-SMC STUDENTS 
3 DAYS 
3 NIGHTS 
In fabulous MIAMI BEACHI 
for NO-Miami football game 
ONLY $160 
NOV. 29--DEC. 2 
Non refundable deposit due SEPT. 28 
deposits collected at NO travel bureau 
QUESTIONS? CALL JERRY 232-3876 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Want at least two Norht· western tix. Call Jim 234·5822 
Need 4 G.A. Northwestern tix Trica4527 
Fast efficient typist. 2.75hr. To type minimum of 20 hrs. week. Evenings, weekends only at my office 
Fast efficient typist, $2.75 hr. To type minimum of 20 hrs. week. Evenings, weekends only at my office. Write now­
PO box 77, NO. 

Help! Am in need of two MSU football tix-GA or studentwith ID's. Need not be adjoining. Call Janet at 1349. 
Wanted one ticket for Nor­thwestern, syudent or general. Call 7916. 
Need one GA ticket to Nor­thwestern game. Call Joe Late at 3418 
Rommate wanted for OC apt. S45 + utilities. 840 N NO Ave. Call 287-6350. 
Need housemate close to campus, $50 plus utilities. 234· 7022. Jim. 
Need 2 Northwestern tix bad I y. Call 3272. 
Need 2 Northwestern GA tix . Call Chris 1469. 
Need GA tix to USC & MSU games. 6864. 
Desperately needed: GA lix for the Army game and the Navy gmae. Call 1364. 
Needed: 4 GA tix to MSU . Call 
John 282-1568. 

Need three GA tix to Nor­thwestern. Phone Andy, 1789 
FOR SALE 

Student season ticket $35 Call Cliff 233-8410 
Year round lake front 2 bedroom home for sale, full basement sprinkling system, 2 car garage, automatic door, all carpeted, boat house. 406 N. Shore, Eagle Lake. Call Allen Rohleder 616 699-5382 or Autumn Klise at 234-0232. 
Price mid '40's. 

Twin bed, Kitchenware. Dishes, silverware, coffeepot, hot pot. Cheap. Call paddy 234­4455 MEERSCHAUM PIPES! Exceptional values, per­sonalized service. Catalog. PMP Co. Box 444 , Gaither­sburg, Md. 20760. 
1970 For-d Torino. Like new. Call John 282-1576. 
Hand made Spanish leather boots with zipper-size 8'12. Sent as a gift but too small Call 3276 or 1144. $38. 
Stereo headphones Koss EDP7 electro static $65. Koss PR04AAS40. Firm. 291-3839 
Amana refrigerator , freezer 22" Brand new, still in carton. Won on TV, sell cheaply. Let's haggle. Dennis 259-7533 
Encyclopedia International Won on TV. Dennis 259-7533 
Chairs for sale. Easy chairs, overstuffed chairs. Free delivery. S5·S7.50. Call Mrs. Cooper. 272-3004 
FOR RENT 

4 students to share house just off S. Michigan St. All utilities paid. Reasonable. 291-5869. 
NOTICES 

COLLEGE STUDENTS: Part time work with major ap. pliance corp. Hours are flexible 20 hrs or more per week. Call 272-8303 for interview. 
Needed -2 GA tix to So. Cal. Will pay good price. Please call Jim 283-1072 
House mate wanted. Portage Ave. area. 233-3202 
Desperately need 2 So. Cal tix. Will pay. Call Joe 3274. 
If you have sex, you may have gonorrhea, syphilis, or both. If in doubt, check it out! Call 284­9781 or come to 9th floor county bldg. man thru Fri Sam to 3 pm. Free-no appointments­confidential-bring a friend too. 
All students interested in 
working on N D Science 
quarterly are requested to 
come to a meeting at 7 pm, L 
Wed. the 19th in 341 Nieuwland 
Science Hall . We need writers, 
artists, proofreaders, layout 
people, etc. If unable to make 
the meeting but are interested 
call 232-2721. 

YoungstoWn Club Members--There will be a meeting Sept. 19 at Sunny Italy. If you will be attending please call 4788 or 8105. 
-· 
the observer 

~~------~--------------------­
Buggers stay unbeaten. demolish Lincoln Park 
Hastings and Jim Kovac each with by John Turchan one try. 
Although the game appeared to Notre Dame's home opener rugby hard hitting, Bob "Bobo" Olsen, contest against Lincoln Park 
Bone crushing action dominAted 

team secretary added that "the Saturday at Stepan fields. The 
game was generally easy; the final score was 36-0. 
amount of cheap shots, and biting was normal."
Notre Dame dominated the opening half with sustained drive: Olsen emphadzed the good in Lincoln Park territory. hitting and years of experience on However, Lincoln Park's defense the serum as major advantages to was tough enough to hold Notre this y(~ar's team. Dame to two trys. 
The only inexperienced position 
These were scored by Tom on the teQm is the backfield. Olsen 
Hastings and Fred Manely. A two noticed that there were some in· 
point conversion by Ed O'Connell stances of inexperienc•ed running. 
ended the scoriag in the first half. These problems hopefully work 
themselves out as the season.. Conditioning in the second half 
. proceeds.
proved to be the deciding margm as Notre Dame broke the game The rugby te&m has already open with 26 more points. Scoring compiled a 5-Q-1 record for th·~ was led by Ed 0' Connell who year, playing at the 4th annual scored one try and added 3 con­Windsor Rugby Classic at Wind­versions, followed by Tom sor, Ontario during the Labor day Masenga, Joe Hofner, Tom weekend. 
John Fineran·::============================================:=========================================================: 
Blarney Stone(d) 

This news flash from Washington ... In what may go down in history as 
the most important piece of legislation during the Nixon Administration, 
President (and General Manager) Richard M. Nixon signed a bill Friday 
that would guarantee the armchair quarterbacks of America a 50-yard 
line seat to their hometown team's games. 
Just think about it. Our President doing something right fcor a change. 
Then think about in this way. We'll have to see all the Chicago Bear home 
games on television. Boy, is that going to divide the silent majority. 
The release said that the bill was signed without fanfare in the 
President's Oval Office. What that meant was Nixon did not have Red­
skin coach George Allen at his side when he signed it. 
The President then left by helicopter for his Camp David retreat for the 
weekend. Ever since Watergate exploded on front pages across the 
nation, personal appearance by the President have been few and far 
~etween. Perhaps Nixon is using the bill (which will allow local broad­
cast if the game is sold-out 72 hours before kickoff) as an excuse to not 
show up for Redskin home contests. 

Incidentally, the Redskins opened up their 1973 season · n H.FK Stadium with a 38-o shutout of the San Diego Chargers. Washington appears to have a11other Super Bowl contender, that is unless the nation's number-
one fan suggests some plays to his coaching partner. 
Thursday night will be an outstanding evening for all true Notre Dame 
fans. Of most importance the 1973 Notre Dame football season gets un­
derway with the annual Dillon Hall Pep Rally. 
It is traditional (at least since I have been here l for the Dillonites to 
host the first rally of the year, especially when the first game is on the 
road, as was last year's Northwestern contest. This time around, 
however, the Wildcats come here and that means Stepan Center will 
host a Friday night rally, featuring Ara Parseghian. 
Notre Dame needs this traditional pep rally at Dillon, if for no other 
reason, pep rallies around here have lacked the real tradition they used to 
hold when the masses would descend on the Old Fieldhouse. 
Dillon's Social Committee has lined up an outstanding array of 
speakers. In addition to tri-captains Dave Casper, Frank Pomarico and 
Mike Townsend, defensive coaches Joe Yonto and George Kelly, both 
former Dillonites, will speak. Basketball's miracle worker, Digger 
Phelps, has also promised to attend the festivities which get underway at 
8:30 p.m. in the courtyard between Dillon and Alumni Halls. The cheerleaders also will be on-hand to "wake up the echoes." 
So, why don't you take some time out from yo'!l' rigorous ~? J studies, 
especially you frosh. You're going to be up all-mght for Emil anyway. 
Remember, spirit is the thing, and Dillon's Rally promises to have plenty 
of it. 

"'hursday is also the night for the classic tennis confrontation, the Battle of the Sexes, between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs, as you know, crPated the controversy last Mother's Day by humiliating Margaret Court. Ms. King had previously turned down the 55-year old hustler, "ending Riggs after Ms. Court. Now, Billie Jean wants a chance to shut the Male Chauvinist up. Instead of the $10,000 she could have earned for the first match, Ms. King now stands to earn $100,000 if she beat Riggs. 
Which raises a very interesting question: Why didn't Ms. King take the 
first match when it was offered instead of berating her female coun­
terpart on her horrible showing? Seems to me that this is a ridiculous 
way to promote the women's role in tennis. 
Still,Ms. King should have enough to beat the Riggs in the Astrodome 
Match. But, what happens if she doesn't ? Will Billie Jean then return 
to her proper place, as Riggs hopes, in the home? Will Riggs then try to 
join the Virginia Slims' circuit? It will be interesting to see how this im­
portant match turns out. 

The Notre Dame Fanatic Club, which likes to think of itself as the 
seventh man on the ice, is trying to come up with some unique ideas for 
the upcoming hockey season. Already it has been suggested that the 
group organize the nation's first card ~ection. at a h~key gam~. 
If you have any suggestions, Fanatic president VIc Dorr will be happy 
to pass them along to head coach Lefty Smith. So drop a line to him, care 
of this paper. 

The B team also won, defeating Lincoln Park's B team by a score 
u.f 25-6. Scoring for Notre Dame was led by Rick Conti with 2 trys, Greg Simon, Paul Gofhlinger, and Joe Nittre each scorecl one try. Larry Casey and Mitch ' Wilkes each had two conversions. 
This Saturday Notre Dame's 1·ugby team plays Western Michigan at Stephan Fields. 
Blackhawks at 
Convo Friday 

The Chicago Blackhawks have scheduled their first Pre-Season hockey exhibition game at Notre Dame on Friday, September 21 at 
7:30 P.M. Chicago is seeking to replace the likes of Ralph Backstrom and Pat Stapleton with the graduates of the 1972-73 ba:~as farm team plus several new College and Junior "A" signees. 
The Chicago lineup will include 11 former WCHA hockey players plus their number one draft choice from Edmonton, .. D'Arcy Rota. Number "9" made famous by Bobby Hull has been assigned to Dale Tallon who was acquired in an off-season trade wilh Van­couver. Tallon will be installed as a Cent.er and his 6'2" and 205 lb. frame should provide the Hawks with some much needed muscle up front. 
Rob Palmer the All-American Center of 1972-73 from Denver i& also considered as one of the outstanding rookies in the Hawk.; camp. His signing will bring to 6 the number of Denver players on the Chicago roster. Other WCHA membe!'s represented on the roster include Wisconsin, Min­nesota, North Dakota and Duluth. 
Tickets for the Chkagv-Dallas game will bt on sale at the ACC Robert.son's (South and Concord Mall), St. Joseph Bank and Branches (except Scottsdale>, 1st Bank <Main office only) and Elkhart Truth. Adults are $3.50 ana children 12 and under $2.00. 
Henry slams 711 
ATL\NTA--Hank Aaron 
slammed the 711th home run of his 
career Monday night to close to 
within three of Babe Ruth's all 
time record. 

The homer, the 38th of 'he season 
for the 39-year old Atlanta Braves' 
outfielder, led off the bottom of the 
eighth inning against San Diego 
Padres pitcher Gary Ross and 
barely cleared the leftfield fenct. 
Lacrosse opens fall season 
by George Eckes fundamentals." 
President of the Lacrosse Club, 
Coming off an excellent 10-1 '73 Ron Sadowski, echoed Lyden's season, the N.D. Lacrosse Club is sentiments, "We want to look at preparing for a fall practice everyone, and the fall practices schedule that includes scrim­and scrimmages allow us to do just mages with Purdue, and Chkago that." and a home-and-away series with 
In past seasons the stickmenthe University of Michigan. An have gone on a spring trip. This encounter with the alumni and at year is no exception as they will be least 2 intra-squad games round heading for the sunny beaches ofout the autumn action. 
Florida in March to play Miami, 
Fall practice will fall under the Ashland Dartmouth, and a fairly direction of the 2 co-captains for new school, Florida International. this year's team, George Carberry 
For those interested in going out, and Geoff Lyden. 
practices are held Monday, 
According to coach Rich Wednesday, and Friday at 4:00 at O'Leary, the emphasis on the Stepan Center or contact Rich year's fall practices will begin O'Leary at the Club Sports Office with a thorough introduction to the 
283-2101. game. O'Leary mentioned that fundamentals would be stressed, 

especially considering the loss of the top 6 scorers from last year's BICYCLE CENTER squad due tograduation. (97 goals were scored last year and 88 were 
1437 Portage Ave. 
from seniors. J 
Phone 287-1623

Commented co-captain Geoff  
Lyden, "It will be  a  challenging  
year with plenty of competition at all spots. The B team will takeup  Ask for student discounts  Tremendous SAVINGS on  
someoftheslack,butwewouldlike Hours: Daily 9:30_5:30 Mon. till 8:30 large turnoutfrominexperienced • ayers. This is one of the goals of fall practice ... to get down the·..____....;W..:..e~s_e_r_v_ic_e_a_l_l_m_a_ke_s_____ all 3 speed, 5 speed, and 10 d 1 _s_peed mo e s.  

The rugby team continued thei.· unbeaten o;;treak Saturday defeating Lincoln Park 36-0. 
Sailors victorious in debut 
The Notre Dame sailing team captured its first victory of the young season Sunday by defeating six other Midwest schools at the Eastern Michigan Regatta. In doing so they avenged last week's second place finish behind Ohio 
Clements' little sister hurt in auto accident 

Tom Clements, Notre Dame's junior quarterback, was called home to McKees Rocks,Pa., early Sunday because of an auto ac­cident involving his younger sister, Alice. 
The 13-year old girl is in very critical condition in a Pittsburgh hospital after being struck Saturday by a careening auto which went out of control near the Clements' home. 
Miss Clements was thrown nearly 150 feet by the impact of the collision. 
"It's a terrible tragedy for the Clements fam :Jy," said Notre Dame head coach Ara Parseghian. 
"We can only hope and pray for her recovery." 
Sources close to the Irish football program indicated, prior to yesterday's practice session, th~.t Clements' availability for Saturday's opening game with Northwestern depended strictly on the young girl's condition. 
Senior QB Cliff Brown assumed the conirols of the number one offense yesterday in Clements' absence. 
State, who tied for the runner-up spot with host Eastern Michigan. 
Sailing in conditions ranging from light wind drifters to brisk planing winds, the Irish relied on team depth to outman the com­petition. Senior Neil Barth, sailing in ''A" Division, placed second in three rAces while junior Jon Makielsk1 took first and third place finishes in his three outings. 
In "B" Division Notre Dame received impressive performances from two freshmen skippers to gain the win. Paul Makielski, equaling his performance of last week, sailed three winners. Buzz Reynolds, finding the increasing winds to his liking, recovered from a light-air fourth place finish to win his last two races. This final competition, in heavy air, insured the Irish win. 
The Irish travel to Bloomington to meet Indiana University and eleven other schools in the annual IU Regatta. This regatta should feature the toughest competition yet faced by the Irish. 
I WATCH 


"FIGHTING IRISH" 

V~..JjRB.~,~i~£2! 
Dimno;ulf '1L1ntcIus '-}eliJeiYIJ 
South Bentl, Indiana 
Convenient credit terms Certified gemologists American Gem Society 




