OD The IDslcle 
SLC Letter 
•.• page 3 
Chilean Priest 
•.• page 6 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX. No. 15 Wednesday, September''' 1974 
Fmancial position brighter 

UPcharges creative accounting 
by Theresa Stewart 
Staff Reporter "Creative" accounting by the University administration has obscured 
financial reports, the local chapter of the American Association of University 
Professors charged yesterday. 

The Faculty Senate Report on Recent University Budgets, which will be issued 
later this week, builds on this AAUP report which measured the University's
financial position and "finds it appreciably brighter than that s_uggested." 
In this report, prepared by Committee Z <Economic Status of the Faculty) and distributed to the Faculty, the AAUP pointed up the shortcomings of the Administration's reliance "on the Statement of Current Funds Operations as a measure of change in the financial well-being of the University." 
This Statement of Current Funds Operations shows a cash gain of $338,918. The AAUP report charged that this gain emphasized in the University's published financial statements, pertained to only a portion of the University's operations. The reported cash gain does not take into account any of the gifts or bequests received by the University, restricted or unrestricted. It also includes a transfer of a portion of the endowment fund without specifying how the exact figure was determined: Unrealized gains or losses on securities held throughout the year do not appear in the cash gain. 
This $338,918 cash gain has been questioned by both the AAUP Report and the Recent Univer­sity Budgets Report presented at the Sept. 11 Faculty Senate meeting. The Faculty Senate report reads, "The declared surplus in the unrestricted fund was only $339,000. In fact, however, $1.4 million in unrestricted gifts were transferred out of unrestricted current funds into restircted current funds." 

The insufficiencies of this cash deficit stem from the method used by the University ac­countants in preparing their financial reports, Prof. Robert Williamson, Associate Professor in Accounting, said. "These accountant's reports only talk about one of several funds of the University. If we add up all these funds we get a better picture of what the University is worth." 
In the "Combined Summary of the Changes in Fund Balances" enclosed in this AAUP report, all University funds are combined to compute the overall change in financial position. An analysis of the Combined Survey indicated the University assets increased $24.8 million in the last 3 years, the principal increase largely the result of gifts and contributions. 
Williamson added that this $24.8 million is not all liquid assets, since part of it is tied up in gifts specified for certain projects and buildings. The report states "the University has apparently shifted its priorities from increasing the physical plant to increasing the endowment fund." 
Dr. Edward -Trubac, AAUP Chapter President, emphasized this shift. "A set of decisions that allocates all gifts to the en­dowment fund and sets faculty raises at less than half the increase in the cost of living clearly reveals the nature of those priorities," he said. 
Dr. James Cushing, Faculty Senate Chairman, felt the Recent University Budget Report goes beyond the AAUP in its overall financial picture and how much of the funds are usuable money. 

1 
j 
1 
1 
~ 
J 

Tallaricb believes 
Food co-op not feasible 
by Bill Gonzenback and Jim Eder Staff Reporters 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director 

of off-campus housing, yesterday said that he believes an on­campus, student-food co-op is not feasible. 
"It's out ofthe question," replied Tallardia when asked if a building for a food co-op could be con­structed on campus. "A new building would cost a minimum of $10(),000," he explained. 
Tallarida also ruled out the possibility of using Stepan Center as a food distribution station. "Using Stepan for a food co-cp would interfere with the functions normally held there, such as Mardi Gras," he stated. 
"Full-time guards and em­ployees would be needed, rental fees would be charged and a license would be required," Tallarida also reasoned. 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin had suggested setting up a permanent, on campus food co-op last Sunday when he outlined the findings of a study conducted by the Off Campus Commission. A complete report of these findings, which describe five possible food co-op plans, will be presented today to Tallarida, the Office of Student Mfairs, the SLC, the Faculty Senate and the Alumni Association. 
"I'm very surprised to hear any criticism, since the report won't be released until today," McLaughlin responded upon hearing Tallarida's comments. "The story in Monday's Observer was only a preview of the report and in no way contained all the facts and reasons behind each alternative studied," he noted. 
McLaughlin also stated that "any criticism presented thus far is adequately rebutted in the report." 
Off-Campus Commissioner Stan Cardenas yesterday said that he was not surprised by Tallarida 's statement. "An on-campus food co-op is possible," Cardenas ex­plained, "but it will require a lot of work, luck and timing." 
Tallarida recommended that students living in an off-campus area should unite and select a representative to buy their food at wholesale prices. "Th,e representative could buy the food and then deliver to the houses by car. This way you do not need a building and there are no legal problems," he explained. 
Ed Price, direCtor of food ser­

vices, also said that the food co-op 
wol!ld be a problem to conduct. 

"This is a very difficult operation, 
and you need a very big volume to 
getwholesaleprices," he stated. 
Price pointed out, however, that 

he had no objection to the program 
and recommended that the co-op 
leaders contact other schools with 
similar programs "to gain some 
idea of the mechanics of such a 
project." 
the observer Wednesday, September 11, 1974 
warld . ' 



brief• 

WASHINGTON <UPI) -President Ford Tuesday denied reports that Henry A. Kissinger is about to lose his job as chief national security adviser, and personally assured Kissinger the reports are 
untrue. 
THE HAGUE, Holland (UPI) -Three Japanese guerrillas and a newly-freed companion took off at 10:29 p.m., 5:29 p.m. EDT Tuesday for an undisclosed destination after ending their five-day siege of the French embassy and releasing their remaining six hostages including French Ambassador Jacques Senard. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -White House Counselor Robert T. Hart­mann said Tuesday that President Ford conceivably might change his mind about wage-price controls if he faced a new Congress and a new set of economic conditions. 
an campus taday· 
3:25pm, lecture, "gas holdup In multistage bubble-type column reactors.'' dr. :z:lndrlch zahradnlk, dept. of chemical reactors, lnstutute of chemical process fundamentals, prague, czechoslovakia, chemical engineering bldg., rm 269. 
4:30 pm, lecture "the recirculating of electrons through a superconducting linac," dr. peter axel, dept. of physics, university of illinoi. coffee will be served at 4:15pm. Nieuwland sci. hall, rm. 118. 6:30pm, meeting, nd sailing club. movie: "duel In the wind," at 7 pm, engineering bldg. rm 303, admission free 7:30pm, lecture, 'social policy In america: future prospects," dr. philip fellin, dean of school of social work, university of michigan, carroll hall, madeleve memorial. 7:30pm, meeting, nd-smc committee in defence of life, library aud. 
8:15 pm, concert, ellen and kenneth landis, organists, sacred heart church. everyday 10 am, art exhibit, pre-columbian art, frech art contemporary graphics, nd art gallery. 12·9 pm, art exhibit, "neon and drawings" tom scarff, moreau gallery. 12-9 pm, photo exhibit, "recent photographs", faye serlo, photo gallery. 12-9 pm, art exhibit, "drawwlngs and paintings", sarita levin little theatre. 

h_l.. Foreign Car Parts Co. 
'e)Parts & accessories for imported car .; for all makes at lowest prices.
lleaional 
Distributor 
'************************* 
:For NO Students, Faculty & Staff 10 :* 
* per;cent discount with I D & pur-: :chase of $10 or more. * 
************************. 

21 5 .Dixie Way N Roseland So. Bend, 
.,._ ' 
PHONE: 272-7187 



St. Wary's 

News Staff Meeting fonife Ill 
ALL REPORTERS AND ANYONE INTERESTED IN REPORTING ARE INVITED 
159 REGINA NORTH 7:00PM 

\ . i ' ' ~­
·~-~,. ~~· '­
.... 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FORSenior Club NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 

to be opened 
$895 
Double occupancy 
by Matt Yokom Staff Reporter No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
"The Senior Club will definitely 
except home football game weekends.
be opened," Senior Class President 
Greg Ericksen announced HICKORY INN MOTEL 
yesterday. The tenative date for 
50520 U.S. 31 North
opening is the weekend of October 
South Bend, Indiana 46637
4th. 
(219) 272-7555
The reason that the Senior Club has not been ready for opening is 
3 miles North of the Tollroad that a manager was not selected 
Cable T.V., Air Cond.1 Phones.
last semester, reported Dr. Robert 
Ackerman, Student Mfairs of­
Send this ad to your parents
ficial. Ericksen explained that this was because the Alumni Club was giving up their interest in the 
TAKE THE GREYHOUND Senior Bar. It was then necessary 
TO CHICAGO
for Student Mfairs to become 
involved, Ericksen added. 
FOR NORTHWESTERN WEEKEN 
The relationship of the Senior Class and Student Mfairs is that 
THE GREYHOUND GOES FROM NOTRE the University will have an in­
DAME TO CHICAGO EVERY FRIDAY
fluence in the direction of the Senior Club, Ericksen explained. 
AT 4:40 PM Ericksen stressed that the Senior 
TWO BUSES RETURN EVERY SUNDAY
Club's purpose will be to promote recreation and fellowship in ac­
CALL TOM BOYER, 272-1807, FOR cordance. with mutual respon­
INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS
sibility and good order. Planned renovation will hopefully create a club-like atmosphere rather than that of a bar. 
Renovation will include retiling and carpeting of some rooms and painting of most of the walls. A dropped ceiling and panelling will be put in on the second floor. Class officers asked the help of seniors to help in the renovation work that must be done. Those willing to help should contact Renovation Committeemen Bob Spann or Ray Capp. 
Applications for business and general manager are to be taken until next Monday Ericksen reported. Those wishing to apply should mail a statement of purpose and experience and three recommendations from University personnel to the Senior Class, Box 
114. The selection of the managers will be made by Student Mfairs. 
Now you know 

Two out of three children in New Zealand smoke cigarettes before they are 7 years old, a survey by the Cancer Society of New Zealand asserted. The 5-year survey claimed that 80 per cent of the boys and 5Q.P81' cent of the girls studied 
were smokingregularly by the age 1/flt. 

At BURGER CHEF •••give your sandwich the "works" at 


NO EXTRA CHARGE 
Fix your own burger the way )'OUTwo locations •• like it at our new Works Bar. · 
Help yourself to lettuce, tomatoes
1716 N. Ironwood 
onions, relish and pickles. Ifmusta:rd and catsup are all you want, it's there52920 U.S. 31 North for you too. Have as much or as little as 
you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar (at Cleveland Rd.) ... and build your burger just the way you want it. 

I I f ...' ' 1 ' ' • ' ' " " t ... ' ' ' " ' • • ' ' ' • ' • ' ' ­
------~------~----------------~--------------------------~ 
.•. ') _t-': .~ ~ ' •. ~" ·.:· ·: ·, 11 

the observer 
3 

Concerns calendar revision 


Academic Commissioner addresses council 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Repor1er 
Jim Ambrose, Academic Commissioner, addressed the Hall Presidents' Council last night concerning possible calendar revision. 

The Academic Commissioner summarized an earlier discussion he had with Fr, James Burtchaell, University Provost, about the calendar situation . Ambrose recalled that Burtchaell felt all aspects of the calendar, including the October break, must be ex­perienced before possible revisions could be considered. In addition, Burtchaell had said any type of poll at the present would be in­complete. With a re-evaluation of the present calendar set for early December, the possibility of a faculty poll at that time was suggested by Ambrose. 
"We can't ignore faculty reaction to the calendar in presenting arguments to the Academic Council," the com­missioner said. "An extensive poll of the faculty would clearly·-show their attitude towards the calen­dar. I think (from discussions I've Had) that the poll may provoke a 
negative  response  towards  the  
present claendar."  
Ambrose  added  that  student  

sentiment for revision must remain strong in early December, when re-evaluation talks are held. 
"The students must be behind­us," Ambrose said. 
Next, Lynn Larkin, representing the Student-Alumni Relations Group (SARG), announced to the HPC that their rejuvenated organization has initiated a program designed to strengthen communication between students and alumni "We are trying to get the alumni more a part of the college experience today," Larkin said. 
Kickoff for the SARG program will be in Washington Hall on Monday, Sept. 23, at 7:00 p.m. Highlights of the 1973 football season will be shown at that time 
Chairman Bob Howl then in­troduced two alumni to the hall presidents. Jim Dehner and Bob Muniz, now involved in the in­surance field, offered their time to explain the pros and cons of in­surance to any interested students 
Their main aim was described by Muniz as, "Maybe we can keep you from getting ripped off." Arrangements for these meetings in the halls must be made by the respective presidents. 
Bill McLean, student om­budsman, reported to the Council that no decision has yet been reached by the Dean of Students concerning bike registration in the halls. He also mentioned that the 

Psychology Society meets 
by Mary Fran Hayes Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Undergraduate Psychology Society held its first meeting Thursday evening, Sept. 
5. in Haszszar Hall. the new 
SLC letter 
Responding to SMC complain 
of last week's destructive panty raids, the SLC issued a statemen yesterday calling for an end to th traditional raids. 
The text of the letter follows: 
Notre Dame is founded upon Ion standing beliefs and traditions. They are good, not only becaus they have lent substance and spiri to the campus, but because the have given Notre Dame its imag as a unique place. 
Raids at St. Mary's college ha been incorporated as part of thi long-standing tradition. Formerly they were conducted spon taneously and in a sense of fr spirit and good fun. Recently, the have become an activity where th sense of good spirit has becom secondary to physical destructio· and psychological harm. Damag in excess of $1200 plus the physica and psychological harm inflict upon members of the St. Mary' staff and student body brings thi type of "fun" into question. 
While these unfortunate cidents can be attributed to actions of a minority of students o both campuses, the responsibilit rests with all of us. It is our duty t see that the rights and property o all individuals are respected an protected. 
With this in mind, the members of the Student Life Council, stu_, dents, faculty members, an administrators, ask that thes senseless activities come to end. It is hoped that the member 

f the ND-SMC community will ac 
ppropriately in regard to thi 
roblem. 

Nixon plagued 

psychology building. ''The meeting was strictly organizational, resulting with, the establishment of two committees," said Senior, Scott Allen, coordinator of the society. 
Blaise Mercadante is chairman of the Career Committee, whose primary function is acquiring 
informationabout graduate schools. "A student interested in a specific grad school will give Mercadante the name of the school and he will obtain literature as well as find out J.bout the school's departments and people," explained Allen. 
The Academic Committee's purpose parallels that of the Career Committee. However, the Academic Committee, headed by Steve Waterman, concentrates on getting lecturers and new un­dergrad courses at Notre Dame 

Waterman is also the Society's representative at the Psychology Department faculty meetings "The Society feels that Waterman can convey student opinion to the faculty," said Allen. 
The Psychology Society also has a social aspect. They have scheduled the showing of "Wait Until Dark" for Sunday, Dec. 8 and Bob Kissel is organizing a basketball team. The Society in­vites ideas from all students for T­shirt designs. 
The next meeting is scheduled for Monday, Sept. 23 at 7:00p.m in the Haggar Building. All majors and non-majors are invited. Club dues are $3 per year. 


Student Union announces Gordon Lightfoot concert 
October 1, is already sold out. Onby Mary Reher October 19 , Mac Davis 1sStaff Reporter 
scheduled to appear. Student Union has arranged for "Student Union will try to two upcoming concerts. Sha Na present concerts that will appeal Na will appear on September 28 to a broad segment of the student ill f population," observed Kernan.
h

andGordonLig tfootw perorm "And the A.C.C. will present
for Homecoming on October 11. Pete Kernan, concert coor-concerts that will appeal to not 
dinator, and Rob Kilkuskie, con-only the students but the com-
cert chairman, are planning two munity at large." additional shows for later in the Booked at the Morris Civic 
semester but the details have not Auditorium are two progressive yet been determined. There will be rock bands. Lynard Skynard, from a total of seven concerts sponsored Alabama, will perform on October 
1 and Aerosmith, from Boston, will by Student Union this year. be featured on October 20. The 
The A.C.C. is offering other Auditorium is located at the north 
concerts not sponsored by Student 

Union. Their first show, Elvis end of River Bend Plaza in South Presley on September 30 and Bend. 
................................................ 
:ATTENTION :1 ALL STUDENTS WISHING : 
• TO SKI COMPETITIVELY: 
: especially women! 
• NOTRE DNIE 
Dean's Office is 1considering bike storage for the storage lockers have been tabled until the bike registration is settled 
THEATRE 
1974-75 Our Ninth Season 
Howl concluded the meeting by announcing that meal CCHm tickets will be distributed at the HPC meetings 
SPECIAL RATE ALL FOUR PLAYS 
$7.50 
Student-Faculty ND'"8MC Staff 
$5.50 
MAIL ORDERS N 0 W.O PEN 
i SKI i Nbrrissey Loan Fund (Lafortune's
• 
Wed. • b ) I

• 
r~AAA asement •.Pease bring or send 


LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGEL 
Ketti Frlngs' Pulitzer Prize play based on the novel by
Thomas Wolfe. 
Oct. 4, 5, 10, 11,12 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 

A premiere production of this comedy-Intrigue In the absurd manner by NO graduate Christopher Ceraso. 
Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00P.M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

Freely adapted from the Medea of Euripides by poet
Robinson Jeffers. 
Feb. 21, 22, 27, 28, Mar. 1 at 8:00 P..M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 



:fGnoF:f§~ 
Wasserman, Leigh, and Darien's musical adaptation of
Cervantes' Don Quixote. 
Apr. 25, 26, May 1, 2, 3 at 8:00 P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
Name................................................................................. 
Address ...................................... Phone ............................. . City ........................................ -. State .............. Zip .......... . Please .send ........... subscriptions at (circle price) $7.50 I $5.50 Totals ........................................... . Indicate date choice for each play: 1st Fri ................................ 1st Sat............: .................. .. Thuri..................... 2nd Fri .............. 2nd Sat.................. . 
Mail check for amount due and stamPed/addressed envelope for teturn of tickets to: ND/SMC Theatre, Notte Dame, lndiaml -16556 i • II<' .•• -. .,...., 
, . ·.~, ··---~fjji~f•'_• . \ I
.--~~. , 
.· -~ ~.-,J.. ,: 
'
SENIOR TRIP PEOPLE: 
Your. $180 balance ··s due no later than thi•S frl•day, Sept. 20. YOU Wl.ll forf •t d •t •f th
e1 YOUr epOSI I e money isn't paid by this Friday. You can d th t
Sen e money 0 Senior Oass of 1975 Box 114 
Notre Dame 
or bring it to US from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. every. day this week in the 
bY bl od0 1C OfS . : -• NEW YORK CUP!) -Julie:  I:,.,VI .1 1TOITn0  5 e p t . 7 :30  1 8 p m  •: : •  to us the hotel room fa1n.Q · b f  
Nixon Eisenhower said Tuesday e that her father, former Presi-: registration  -• : La Fortune :-'  U e S t I 0 n S m a y e r e e r r e Greg Ericksen 2 8 3-3 6 8 7  d  t 0  :  
dent Richard  M. Nixon,  will  be •  •  
hospitalized within  a  few  weeks •  :  8 ob  5 pan n  2 3 3-6 2 4 7  
bec.auseofbloodclotsm.hislegZArecreationalwh1ch have plaszued h1m for :  program  meeting: , •  Chris  Fenn  2'83-6487  
months.  :  ,,is.s.lated  for  the  near  future  :  Joe  Henderlong  234-1673  
-­ 

~...........................................~·~----------------------------------------------~ 



THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDFNT NEWSPAPER 
Beyond Loco Parentis
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
AnnMccarry Editorial Editor 
Bob Zogas Business Manc:ger 

Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief  Mllrtene Zloza Managing Editor  
Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob McManus Advertising Manager  

---------=Se=ptember 18, 197-=~'----------------­
The Goals of Amnesty 
The appointment of Fr. Hesburgh to President Ford's Clemency Board can only be met with applause. And then, hope.
Ford must be applauded because in Fr. Hesburgh he has brought a peace-maker back to Washington. The hope must go out to Fr. Hesburgb that his influence ":ill be felt on the Board and be will reconcile his long-held belief in unconditional amnesty with the President's plan for conditional amnesty.
The task of the Board is to administer the Ford's alternate service program. Draft evaders and armed forces deserters from the Vietnam War will be given the opportunity to return to the United States in return for an oath of national allegiance and up to 24 months of alternate public service. 
Hesburgh and his colleagues must administer this program sanely and fairly. It must reach out to the thousands of deserters in Canada, Sweden and oth~r countries so that the goal of amnesty IS realized for as many as possible. Already many of these persons are denouncing the plan as a sham and a cover-up. 
The Board must fairly deal with all 
draft evaders from those exiled to other 
countries to those who chose to remain 
and face the criminal and military 
punishments.
The president's program seems a sane 
and fair proposal for the evaders who fled 
this country. Although it is not the 
complete amnesty they had hoped for, 
the program provides the opportunity for 
each man to return home. 
What remains the specific task of the 
Clemency Board is the question of those 
estimated 3,120 who went to pris~n b~t­
ween 1965 and 1973 for refusing to fight m 
Vietnam. They must also decide the fate 
of the 130 persons still imprisoned in civil 
institutions for these offenses and of the 
estimated 700 deserters now serving time 
in military compounds. No program of 
alternate service can justly and sanely 
offer them any reconciliation. 
DOONESBURY 

For those who have completed their sentences for draft evasion charges, no amnesty can retrieve those years lost in the penal institutions of this country. Their debt has been paid; their sentence must be forgotten and their offense forgiven. To accomplish this, the Clemency Board must call for complete reprieves for offenders who have faced the punishment of not only criminal, but military courts. 
For the offenders now serving sen­tences, the Board must extend to them the opportunity to serve out the terms constructively in alternative public servie. 
The first step in this process has already been taken in Attorney General William Saxbe's granting of a 30-day furlough to all such persons. Yet the Board must extend this furlough to in­clude the 700 men serving under military jurisdiction. The Board must be willing to extend this furlough beyond 30 days. 
Finally, the Clemency Board must provide this country with a tangible and viable spirit of reconciliation and peace. This specific program of amnesty offers legal and institutional reconciliation to draft evaders and deserters. But what of the moral and social aspects? Will the draft dodger of six or seven years ago be accepted by the people of America in the true spirit of forgiveness and un­derstanding? Will the granting of a conditional amnesty really bind the wounds of a divisive war and leave us to forget the mistakes of the past? 
How Fr. Hesburgh and his eight fellow members of the Clemency Board, con­front their taks will determine what kind of America emerges from the experience of Vietnam. 
Terry Keeney 
David Hayes 
No university bulletin ever warned me about the dangers of Hamburger Helper. The official Notre Dame code book tells nothing about the penalties which accompany mixing coloreds and whites in the washing machine. And campus life never prepared me for dishpan hands or toilet bowl cleaning. I am one of several hundred off-campus students who have let go of the university to don my own. It is quite a change. 
Last year I had a hard enough time adjusting to making my bed every day after the campus maids relinquished that task to me. They still did empty my wastebasket, of course, and occasionally vacuumed the rug. I grumbled now and then when they didn't dust off my desk, but I would play the martyr role, make the sacrifice, and do it myself. The great~t in­convenience of all was hauling my laundary bag down to the dormitory basement every week, and then picking it up a few days later, after a dining hall lunch. Surely, I thought, off-campus life could be no more taxing. 
After only three weeks of apartment dwelling, it may be too early to compare the relative merits of on versus off campus life. Gone are the dining halls' uncooked hot dogs, elastic jello, and chewable ice cream. In its place is Kroger's finest 89 cents per lb. hamburger, Morton's pot pies and canned Chinese delicacies. Gone are the maids, protectors of male chauvinism and they are replace by liberating broom sticks, garbage dumpsters, and dusting cloths. Gone are $10.00 allotments of laundry tickets, and instead dimes, quarters and Tide laundry detergent prepare every off-campus student for his trip to the laundromat. 
While I hesitate to compare my three years or campus life to my three weeks off campus, I already wonder if remaining on campus for my final year wouldn't have deprived me of the unique slice of life that I'm now experiencing. Spoiled by maids and other campus services too long, perhaps my confrontation with the "Joy of Cooking" is an educational opportunity that no senior should miss. And my newly-acquired talents now include finding my way around "metro" South Bend, reading an electricity meter, and recognizing the difference between tomato paste and tomato sauce. As a resident of the "Campus View Construction Site", I have had the chance to witness the birth of an apartment complex (my own). The melodious sounds of bulldozers and buzz saws fill the air as they busily build while the skies are still snow-free. 
Lest I be misunderstood: I am not unhappy with my off-campus fate. I enjoy relaxing in a living room, reading the paper, and smelling dinner cooking on the stove (I especially enjoy it when one of my roommates, and not me, is doing the c··ooking!). The independence from questions of · parietals, liquor rules ar.d campus food is welcome, and the often unreal world of academia is effectively shortcircuited by a trip down the Thrift-t­mart aisle. If dormitories can claim a "community "atmosphere, so also can house and apartment mates who must rub elbows in front of pans full 
of dirty dishes. 

All I ask is that those of us who brave traffic jams to get to 8:00 classes not be forgotten. Ours is a different life -maybe better. If you, as a dor­mitory resident, spot a fellow student equipped with a back pack and a brown lunch bag, think of what you're missing. And when the dining hall serves its version of "Hamburger Helper," seriously consider moving off 
yourself. 


the observer 

Night Editor: AI Rutherford Ast. Night Editor: Ginny Faust Layout: Marti Hogan, Karllee Clark Copy Editor: Jim Eder, Ken Bradford Day Editor: George Velclch Editorials: Fred Graver Features: J.R. Baker, Norm Bower. 
Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Kathy Grace, Nell VIII, Camille Arrleh, Howard Halle Compugraphic Operator: M. J. Foley Night Controller: Howard Halle 
Sports: Greg Corgan & Bob Kissel 

WednesdaY! Septemlter 11, 1974 the observer 
faur way street 


the problems of a concept album 
palmieri, murray. baland, Q. •mit.h 
Editor's Note: With this review, the Ob­server Features Department introduces four reviewers who will write as a team -a sort of editorial board, reviewing records and concerts. Members of this team include Frank Palmieri, BUI Murray, Mike Boland and BUI Smith. 
Concept albums are difficult to create, difficult to perform, and difficult to review. If the concept is not relevant to the listener, the lyrics will appear to be trite and the music often tedious. If the concept is ac­ceptable, believable, the music will, in most cases, not be on the same plateau as the lyrics, or seem to be intricate filler around them. To the reviewer, the conceptual album naturally proposes that a certain amount of ~s will be read into his critique by those that can visualize the concept, and by those that can't. The release of Nektar's first American album, Remember tbe Future, appears to be no exception. 
What really is their third album, ·as a group, Nektar has composed the latest conceptual album to hit the charts. It is the story of a bluebird from a distant planet who gives visions of life, of before life, and of after life to a young, blind earthling. The bird is Nektar's pantheistic representation of a Christ-like savior who has come to spread his wisdom, as he has many times before, but is becoming weary now of being "crucified." 
The lyrical account is uninspired and deals basically with philisophical generalities. When the blind child questions the bird about "tomorrow", he prefaces his investigation with insipid statements like: 
I can see you 
I can hear you 

I can see it all when I look into your eyes 
I can sense it all when I look into your skies I can see oh I can feel Whereas these lyrics could possible have 
turn of the cards --­a good deal 
a review by john zygmunt 

Renaissance's lead vocalist Annie Haslam claims, "Many of our ideas are inspired by classical composers like Rach­maninoff, Shostakovich, Back, Beethoven, and Chopin." Well, most of my favorite rock groups were inspired by Little Richard and Chuck Berry, but I can bury myraunchypast long enough to applaud this album as a nice piece of work. 
Pseudo-classical rock and roll can get embarrassingas Rick Wakeman found out when people started asking him questions about Topographic Oceans that he didn't understand much less know how to answer. However on Turn of the Cards Renaissance, for the most part underplays the classical part of their image and concentrates on making good pop music. 
Most of the classical allusions that do work involve the brilliant singing of Annie Haslam who can do some breathtaking things. Keyboard man John Tout, on the other hand, seems like an escapee from a piano observatory who isn't sure yet he wants to throw it all away. His keyboard work on "Cold is Being" is melodramatic enough to make the song the most likely candidate for the soundtrack of the next bad screenplay of "The Death of Ivan Dych.!' 

Turn of the Cards 
Renaissance 
Sire Records 

However, Renaissance does have its moments. Provided with several strong efforts by songwriters Michael Dunford and Betty Thatcher, the group shows some in­teresting capabilities. 
• "Running Hard", after a rather pointless piano introduction, flows with exhilaration, allowing the group to show the better side of their pretension. "I Think of You" proves a lovely vehicle for the talented Ms. Haslum and being one of the shorter songs on the album I only hope they quickly release it as a single before Marie Osmond recovers from her tonsil operation. "Black Flame" has it's appeal and contains the penetrating lyrics, 
"Now I'm weak, I am losing. , I never thought I'd stop trying. I'm a lie, I'm just a sign, Just a symbol of the game." 

Ifnothing else, Dr. Hofman's students can use it for a theme song. 
Encouraging also is the fact that the songs 
which don't work never fail for a lack of 
• effort. "Mother Russia," a tribute written 
for Solzhenitsyn after lyricist Thatcher read A Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (1 told you the kids were sophisticates) contains as much musical detail as any other tract, despite its' shortcomings. 
An appealing album then, from this relatively unknown English group. Their greatest problem for the future could be developing a strong musical personality for audience identification. This could be solved, I think, by moving Ms. Hasllilm up front for she is easily the best thing ·about this interesting album. 
· worked for a Townshend sponsored rock 
opera, they don't for this surrealistic, 
pantheistic, subconscious effort. 
To make matters worse, there is a void 
between the lyrics and the music that is 
never crossed or mended. As the program 
starts, in an obvious strain taken from Yes, 
the four adequately talented musicians 
weave and layer repetitious themes that 
never lead to anything. The progressions 
are anticlimatically halted with no effort 
spent upon segwaying the individual bands 
with plausible transitions. The lyrics 
therefore are paragraphically, almost 
parenthetically, sung with no relationships 
to the sutroundink bodies of music. 
But the problems aren't all lyrical. There 
are many major flaws in the performance 
and production of this conceptual project, 
The album is produced by the group Nektar 
itself, which consists of Derek Moore on 
bass guitar, Roy Albrighton on as assort­
ment of guitars, Alan Freeman is the 
keyboard man, while Ron Howden is on the 
drums. There is a listed fifth member of the 
band, a Mike Brockett, but he is a light 
musician and of no value to a 
"home" audience. Nevertheless the five of 
them play a music that is vapid and boring. 
Albrighton's guitar work is effortless all 
through the first half of the album, including 
his psychedelic efforts in "Confusion" 
which is the last cut on the first side. On the 
flip _.side however, Roy does some 
interesting leads and intricate wah-wah 
fills, especially on the final song, "Let it 
Grow". 
The keyboard work is also hard to find 
commendable on the first half, but this was 
not all the fault of Freeman's work. On the 
first three songs Alan's attempts, which are 
mostly simple chordal rhythms, are mixed 
so far back, that at times you don't even 
.·. 
Remember the Future 
Nektar 
Famous Music Corp. 
know he's there. The only times he can be heard are in the last cuts of both sides when his instruments arv~ put obnoxiously out front to create a Lennonistic wall of sound, a pretty poor imitation too. 
The rhythm section is by far the most talented segment of Nektar. Moore's bass is not as powerful as Chris Squire's (Yes), or as overwhelming as Roger Waters' (Pink Floyd), but it is more than capable of setting down a direction for the rest of the band to follow and improvise off of. Some notable examples of this are the bass lines laid down in "Confusion", "Path of Light", and "Let it Grow." 
And finally, Ron Howden's drumming is 
the only toil worthy of an effort as gran­diose as a conceptual piece of music. The beat laid down is an elaborate rhythm established between Ron's high-hat, snare, and ride cymbal, while his bass drum foot keeps time with "Mo" Moore's mean­dering bass line. The drumming is used in almost au of the trite transitions, but develops rapidly into a laid back, talented and a very emotional involvement with the beat. And if it hadn't been for this sustaining drive and capricious innovations by Howden, and occasionally Moore, the first American release of Nektar would probably have been a waste of plastic. 

aceedinra• af the 
rayal raeaphysical sac:iety 
reports on the notre dame ducks 

We were deeply saddened to learn from one of our erstwhile associates that the Oakroom recently served ducks. In the first blush of confusion we were inexpressably pleased having always felt that there was no justifiable reason for refusing a well mannered duck dinner in any public area providing he or she were decently ap­parelled in shirt and shoes. Upon a better explication of what actually transpired ­with only the briefest cross references to the oddities of English syntax -we were properly appalled. As 'ihakespeare(or was it Marlowe? or Bacon?) wrote "How more ungrateful than a serpent is the hungry student." 0 mild and (relatively) inof­fensive duck! How many failed bis~uits, what surfeits of stale cookies have they removed from the disgruntled generalities' jaundiced eye! 
We shall never hear thy sweet quack more, alas God wot. 1 
More than their undoubted charity the Notre Dame ducks should be cherished for theiP importance in the historical development of something or other as they have never undergone the great vowel shift and are for all intents and purposes speaking Middle Duck. (It has therefore been postulated that the ducks represent descendants from the flock of the redoubtable Treydis Einiksdotter 2 and therefore the\westernmost Viking incursion in the new world and as such ought to be maintained at public ex­pense as a national landmark and registered with the bicentenial commission. Until such time as federal aid is forth­
coming, all right-miilded Notre Dame students should show an · interest in historical-preservation and feed rather than feed upon the ducks. 
1 School of Emily Grangerford, attributed to 
2 Eusebia May Gumms, B.A., M.A., Dip.Eng. Stud. 


~------------~--------.---~----------------------------------------------------------------~-----------­
6 the observer Wednesday,Septemberla,1974 
Living in Moreau 
•

Chilean priest 1n exile 
protection, he evaded arrest for of the Chilean work force earn $40 Dame. In addition, he is involved by Jim Winters two months before his banishment. a month or less-enough for a in the order's Peace and JusticeStaff Reporter 
He maintains the charges against monthly diet of just three pounds of Commission, a "clearinghouse"him .~re ludicrous. bread. 12 percent earn nothing at and research center which at­A Holy Cross priest, exiled in 
all. The poor have particularly tempts to foster a ChristianJune by the repressive military "I don't even ktlow how to shoot suffered during Chile's severe awareness of peace and justice in government of his native Chile, is a gun," Garate says. economic crisis this past year, and today's world.
living at Moreau Seminary here in large areas the situation iswith the knowledge that he may Garate is one of 150 priests exiled desperate.

not be allowed to return to his since General Augusto · Pinochet homeland for "10 or 20 years." seized power in the September, 

But despite widespread1973, coup in which Marxist discontent, Garate said, there is 
Fr. Martin Garate, C.S.C., a President Salvador Allende was little overt opposition to the junta. formP.r theology teacher at St. killed. Declaring a year-long There cannot be. George's High School in Santiago "State of War," General Pinochet was accused last Spring of ordered the total suppression of "You can't talk, you can't say "organizmg guerilla warfare" popular dissent and the seizure of anything against them," says against Chile's ruling military over 8,000 political prisoners. Garate. "Sometimes you'll be junta. With the Chureh's taken prisoner, sometimes tor­
Because of their work with the tured, sometimes killed. If you are vast number of Chile's desperately 

accused of criticizing the govern­poor, priests were particularly ment, you are accused of treason
Blood programs 
suspected of "subversive activity" and court-martialled. There is no 

and were prone to arrest. St. 

trial."
to be created George's, a large Holy Cross High School in the nation's capital, was Upon his own exile, Garate came seized by the government. The to Moreau, the Holy Cross
in every dorm 

order is presently negotiating to provincial headquarters. A regain control of the school. deacon, Diego Irarrazaval, C.S.C., by Lonnie Luna 
who was exiled with Garate, is Garate, 37, has received letters living at Christ the King parish in Staff Reporter from three of his brothers still South Bend. living in Chile which reportA permanent blood donation 
widespread starvation among the Garate is taking graduate
program with branches in each 

peasantry there. Ov~r 40 percent courses in economics at Notre
hall is being created by the Volunteer Services Organization directed by Fr. Thomas Stella. 

TIRED OF DINING HALL FOOD?
The organization, which includes 
the hall community services 

Then it's 
directors, hopes to alleviate the current blood shortage in the area. At a meeting Sunday evening in the Grace Penthouse, John 

*LOUIE'S BAR* 
Famula, chairman of the blood 
drive, asked all hall directors to 
organize the groups in their halls. 
He added that large recruiting 

16 oz. BEER all PIZZAS
drives for donors have begun within the halls and dining halls. "Recruiters will be asking for 


from 6·10! 
people willing to donate blood, to 
drive, or to work once during the 
50' off on 
year," said Famula. He explained 

Come Early -join us for supper!
that the halls are divided into four groups with a contact person assigned to each group. Each hall 

WEEKEND JOB 
will be visited once a semester and 
asked to donate blood. 

Indiana's Largest Lake Developer
"We are also asking the faculty 

Needs Several Ambitious Seniou
to donate," he added. Famula said 
donors and their families will be 

Or Grad Students To Work Weekends
insured to receive free blood when 
they need it. 

Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. 
"By 1975, all blood banks in the association will have to be con­

Gas Paid. Free Housing.
verted to 100 percent volunteer 
donors," he stated. "The Central 

Minimum $50 
Blood Bank in South Bend and the 
St. Joseph Chapter of the Red 

CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189
Cross have decided to join forces in meeting the growing demand for blood within the community." 
Famula noted that the ND-SMC community offers a large and constant source of donors and could benefit from improved facilities. 
The next meeting will be Sunday, September 29 in the Grace Pent­house at 10:30 p.m. 
2!;!;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::-m.::::::=:::::=::::;:;::::-:::::::::::M
\\\\ *TONYS* lll~ 
:~:~ SHOE SHOP :~:~ 






Ico::::::L::::J 
:~:~ TOP BRAND FOOTWEAR ~=~
I~~==:~~R I 
ACCESSORIES 

QUICK SERVICE REASONABLE OPEN 8-6 MON-FRI 9-4 SAT PH 283-1144 .... ··:. 
:\1:::4:::;:;:;:;:;:;::::~$..*:=:::;::~~)%-.».fo"~· • 
7 44 N. 
N.D. Ave. 

Bus Trip to "hrthwestern Sponsored by Keenan Hall Package Includes: Ticket Bus Trip Keg on Each Bus Total Cost Only $15.00 Ca II Gary 3 4 0 4  
KEN'S DEN HAIRSTYLING -Award winning stylists -Unique atmosphere Rottler styling products Across from 100 Center ( Lincolnway West) in Mishawaka Phme 255-8500 Appointments eferra::l  
.:.!:'!5·~TRAINED IT'S TEACHERS THE FOR "NEW" ARTHUR TOUCHMURRAY DANCINGIN CHICAGO TOGETHE FOR AGAIN~~ 12 FOR YEARS Fran DeMarko says "IF YOU CAN WAL~ I CAN TEAQ-1 YOU TO DANCE" M NOTRE DAME LA F 0 RTUNE BALL R 0 0 M FOR FUN HOBBY EXERCISE RELAXATION NEW fRIENDS CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT and Just Walk InROMANCE! ANY Mon. Eve.'New Dances" Are: TIME: 7­9:30p.m. ox Trot . • . Rock Alone •Group. Oat altz ..• Polka s2.0o Each Lesson Cha Cha ... Rhumba We: Samba ... Tango LESSONS Change Partners Charleston •.. TIME: 7-9:30 p.m. Every Minute EACtf MONDAY BEGINNING . SEPT. 23  


at ND 
Garate believes the junta does not intend to restore democracy to Chile for at least a decade. In the meantime, he intends to work for peace and justice at Notre Dame, and to await their restoration to Chile. 
Insurance inexpensive 
Ne'W policy offered 
By Don Reimer Staff Reporter 

A new, less expensive insurance policy is being offered to the students of Notre Dame for the 1974-75 school year. According to Barbara Roulo, the campus in­surance representative, the reduced price is due to a change of insurance companies by the university. The fee, reduced from $42 to $41 for students, will not lessen the amount of coverage and, as Roulo stated, "there is actually more coverage than last year." 
The new policy, which is un­derwritten by the Puritan Life Insurance Company, provides improved benefits in such areas as hospital room and board, miscellaneous expenses, and doctor's calls. Other provisions include diagnostic expenses, in­firmary expenses and ac­
cidental death. 
The coverage remains in effect 
for one year beginning August 27, 
1974 and includes all vacation 
periods. Several situations not 
covered are: dental treatment not 
due to accident; injury sustained 
while participating in in­
tercollegiate athletics; and self­
inflicted injury. 
According to Bro. Just Pac­zesny, vice-president of student affairs, the university engaged the new company due to, "the better general coverage and the closer location of the main office." He commented that the Northfield, lllinois location of the office would lead to quicker, more efficient processing of student claims, The price reduction, though small, also influenced the decision in this time of rising prices. 
Roulo, the student represen­tative, may be contacted from 12 pm. to 1 pm. on Mondays, Wed­nesdays, and Fridays or from 1 
p.m. to 2 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays in room 102 of the in­firmary. 
IVJICHIGAN STBF:e:I' 
ADULT THEATRES 
X  2 F1LIV5  
X  BOamtcm:  
X  LIVE Ftcx:E SHOW  

1316 SCXJI'H MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282·1206 FOR INFORMATION 




THE WINERY 
2426 LINCOLN WAY WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE 259-9046 
All the Finest Europem Cheeses 
Gift Boxes of Cheeses md &Fancy Foods Oriental Cooking Ingredients 10% Cheese and & Fancy Food Discount to Faculty and & Students French Bread and &Croissants New York Cheese cake Greek Olives Teas 
J .. " • ,. ,. ,. "" # ,. # fj , -1 • " •• 
.. " ' .. ' ' ' • ' ....~ • " ... ' " " .. ~:II> • ~...... ·-· • 1 • ' 
Wednesday, September 18, 1974 the observer 
7 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

want to sell 4 season tickets and want to buy 3 GA tickets to Miami or Pitt. Call 232-6790 aHer mid­night on Mon, Tues. or Wed. 
Top dollar paid for four GA Rice tickets. Dave, 6818. 
Need 3 GA Miami fix. Call Mark, 8420. 
Wanted: Ride to Washington DC. Able to leave S. Bend on Wed, Thurs. or Fri, Sept 19, 20 21. Will share gas and driving. Call Martha Walsh, 234-3306. 
Desperately need one GA Pitt­sburg ticket. Will pay any reasonable price. 232-3874. 
Need 1 Rice ticket. Will pay$. Call Scott, 1205. 
Desperately need 4 GA fix for Miami. Call Rich, 6981. 
Need 2 GA Rice fix. Please call Steve, 289-9379. 
Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Pitt game. Bob, 283-3019. 
Desperately need Purdue fix, GA or student. Cali Joe, 3663. 
Need 2 GA tix to Rice or Army. Willing to pay $. Call Jim, 6764. 
Need 4 to 6 GA tickets for Pitt or Miami. 288-2613. 
Wanted: 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call Larry, 288-7375. 
Need 3 GA tix to Army. Call Randy, 272-7198. 
Need 1 Purdue ticket. Call Pam, 5185. 
Need 4 GA tix to Rice. Call 4726. 
Need 1 student fix for Nor­thwestern game. Call 7659. 
Need: 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call 233-5925. 
Wanted: Stacked chic. Cali David, 1981. 
Need 6 GA Purdue fix. Will pay $. Call Mr. Heekin, 277-0067. 
Need 1 ticket tor Northwestern. John, 3540 after 9. 
Need 2 Purdue GA fix. Call Jerry, 8922. 
Wanted: 1 GA or student ticket for· Purdue. Call Mike, 1049. 
Wanted: ride to and from Con­necticut durin\! Oct. break. Will share expenses. Jim, 1045. 
Desperately need 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call Trace, 234-1889. 
Need 2 GA fix for Purdue. Call Bob, 234-1889. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lookout! Lost: one whole key Sargent. TW5 .. Reward. 1575. 
Lost: one pair of brown glasses somewhere between Turtle Creek and Marquette. Phone 277-0838. 
Lost Wed night at Uncle Willie's ­brown wallet. Desperately need all identification. Reward. Mark, 313 Alumni, 1175. 
Lost: woman's silver wristwatch .saturday night in the vicinity of Flanner Hall. Reward. Call 4238. 
Lost: ND Class ring. Gold with inscription D.J.B. Call Dennis, 282­1791. 
Lost: Schwinn 10-speed. Reward if found. Call 1694. 
Lost: Litronix calculator in O'Shag, room 116. Reward offered. Call 3698 after 10 pm, Kevin. 
Lost: Ladies gold bracelet watch. Somewhere between Farley and 
Sorin 6847.  Sunday night. Call Betsy, NOTICES  
The  POLISH  LIMBO  was  

originated by Terry Moraczewskl, trying to sneak under a pay toilet door. 
lnPIRG office hours: 1 -3 pm, Student Govt offices, 2nd floor LaFortune. PH 7668 or 6413, ext 6. 
InPI RG Town Meeting, Thurs. Sept. 19, 7 pm, 1C LaFortune. Find out what you can do! 
TALISMAN  NOW  AVAILABLE  
FOR  DANCES,  CONCERTS,  
PARTIES,  AND  PRE-GAME  

PERFORMANCES. FOR IN­FORMATION, CALL 272-9895. 
If you have love to give and need extra money -S. Bend Nursing Home has openings for part time aides and orderlies. 11:00 pm to 7:30am three nights per week. 232­4483 for interview or stop at S. Bend Nursing Home. 328 Notre Dame. 
Wanted: 2 GA Purdue fix. Call Roger, 1055. 
FOR SALE 

For sale: Super Twin portable Speed Queen washer. Avocado green. Used 8 times. $90.00 Call 272-8695 or 233-4843 after 5 pm­
1968 GTO, good condition, asking $900. Call Bill, 289-9576. 
One Slazenger tennis racket, $12.00. One Dunlop Maxply racket, $22.00. Both excellent condition. Jeff, 6161. 
Electrovoice-18 speakers, 3-way, 12" woofer, 5" midrange, 120 degrees high frequency dispersion. 
$225 pr. Call 277-0151. 

For sale: 2 tix for Sha Na Na. Excellent seats. Call 6983 or 234­1889. 
Now at Jennifer's, 119 Colfax. Shirts for men: $9-$17 India im­ports. 
24 Hour TV Service, 7 days a week, 
. Sundays and holidays. Color TV's $60.00 and up. Stereos $50.00 and up_ Western Electronics, 1530 Westerr. Ave, 282-1955. 
Interested in joining a poker club? Call Ed, 272-3709. 
Money? Morissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFortune, 11:15-12:15 daily_ 
EUPHORIA (RECORDS AND TAPES) IS BACK. CHEAP? WE BEAT ALL SOUTH BEND PRICES. SPECIAL FOR DEAD FREAKS: DEAD ALBUMS, RIDICULOUSLY CHEAP, UNTIL THURS. WE DELIVER TO NO STUDENTS. CALL 234-6535. 
Anyone who has studied Aikido and wou1.11ike to practice again or anyone who would like to study Aikido, please contact John at 287­
6830. 
SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE FROM 12:15 -5:00 MWF AND 
11:00 • 1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TTH. 

Pandora's Books buys used texts and paper backs daily, 2:30 -3:30 except on Sundays. 10 percent cash or 40 percent credit. 
PERSONALS 
My whole world is crumbling down upon me. Help ­Boom Boom Cannon Call 272-4713. 
Student Govt Pixie desires new 
pinkie.  Old  01ie  worn  out  from  
summoning Bert.  See  the Chip­ 
munk, 3rd floor Walsh.  

To SMC Girls: 
Need date to keep sanity. Ap­plicant must be average looking, kind, sensitive. No experience necessary. Call 8547. 
S.M.O. 
Don't look on the root, Don't look in the shed, You'll find me a' home, eating crackers in bed. 
Dancer 
Happy Birthday, BREN-BREN N.! Cave Woman and Boomer 
Congratulations "Lust of the month" nominees. 2nd floor B-P loves you. Hang in there. 
Going to Northwestern Sat.? Stay overnight and see Joe Willie and the Jets play the bears. 3 tickets tor sale. 1108. 


OBSERVER Ads Get Results Ill 
4 ••• 1 l ~ • 1 • ~ t .• '\ 1 " " • ·~ 1 • .. 1 .. "' • • , • 

1 
1 
l 
j j j l the observer Wednesday, September 11, 1974 
Dillon seeks repeat 
as 1974 IH football 
teams get prepared 
by Art Moher Freshman Ray Duran will guide Dillon's outstanding offense. 
The 1974 Interhall Football Duran, the only newcomer on the Season opens September 29th as Dillon offensive unit, has an ex­fourteen teams begin their attempt perienced set of running backs in to wrest the title away from seniors Joe Riepenhoff, Mike Dillon's defending champions. O'Neill and junior Craig Tighe. This season, Dillon. Morrissey, Despite having a strong defensive Howard, Pangborn-Fisher, unit, Coach Bireley looks ahead to Alumni, Sorin, and St. Joe-Off a tough season and points to Campus comprise the teams in the Morrissey as a traditionally tough South Quad Division. The North opponent. The Vince Mecoconi-led Quad's seven teams are Keenan, Marauders, the only team to break Stanford, Flanner, Grace, Holy Dillon's four year dominance, lost Cross, Cavanaugh, and Zahm. heavily through graduation. 
On the South Quad, the defending However, Morrissey boasts a champions from Dillon Hall look balanced offense with quarterback very strong. Mike Bireley, the Tim Puntarelli and running backs coach of the Big Red, has seven­Paul Furey and Gerry Richardson teen returning starters at his as returning veterans. The '74 lnterhall football season kicks off a week from Sunday with afull slate of games. disposal as he attempts to guide Looking at the North Quad, Dillon to its fourth interhall Keenan, an 8-6 overtime loser to returns sixteen starters from last championship in five. seasons. Dillon in last year's title game, year's squad. The Keenanites 
Sailors host ND Regatta 
,---------------------------. should be aided by the return of
John Feeney, a starter at quar-
Notre Dame is not a sailing Michigan, Xavier, Miami, Toledo,
terback last year until an early 
school. There are no sailing and three intersection schools.
season arm injury shelved him for 
scholarships, sailing coaches or Last season the N.D. sailors
the remainder of the season.




Irish head AP poll 
sailing cheerleaders. No one t~lks placed second in the league of
Keenan returns some very good 
about "sailing weekends" at Notre sailors. The sailors are looking
veterans such as Al Sondej and 
Dame. No one waits in line to buy ~orward to a fine season this year, 
Pinky Faherty, plus some talented
Notre Dame has regained the number one position in the latest 
sailing tickets. Instead of being number 2 they
newcomers. Captain Chuck Kern,
Associated Press College Football Poll. The Irish began the season will be trying for number 1. 'Even
however, feels that the North Quad 
number three behind Oklahoma and Ohio State, but, by virtue of their This weekend, the Irish sailing though the team got off to a badimpressive 31-7 win over Georgia Tech, moved ahead of both the Sooners will be competitive and looked to team (in its twenty-seventh year of start this past weekend at Purdue,
Flanner and Stanford as especially
and the Buckeyes. Oklahoma had trouble with Baylor winning 28-11 while existence) hopes to eliminate some where they finished fifth in a field
strong opponents. Kern also felt
OSU downed Minnesota 34-19. 
of this obscurity as they host 14 of seven.
that there could be other sur
"We had sort of a long fight to be No. 1 last season and it helped our other schools in the Notre Dame This weekend, only 25 minutesprisingly strong teams.
determination, I believe," said ND Head Coach Ara Parseghian. "I think Fall Regatta at Diamond Lake in away, north of the Golden Dome,
Each hall will play six regular
the reason we weren't ranked No. 1 before this season began is all the Cassopolis, Michigan. The com­the Fighting Irish will tangle with
season games with each squad
things that have happened to us-the injuries, the construction accidents, petition features Ohio State, the Ohio State Buckeyes the
playing the other six teams in its
the dismissals. 

Purdue, Iowa, Michigan, Oshkosh, 
Michigan State Spartans a~d the
division once. This season most of
"People thought we would not be as strong as last season after that. But Wisconsin, Indiana, Western Seminoles of Florida State.
the interhall games will be played 
we were fortunate enough to have a little better performance to open the 
at Cartier Field with the others
season than some of theteamswho were ranked ahead of us earlier." Despite the jump in the AP Poll, the Irish are No. 2 behind Ohio State in 
played on the fields behind Stepan Center. The games will be played
the UPI Coaches Poll. Oklahoma is not ranked in the UPI poll because the 
on Sunday afternoons and Wed
Sooners are on NCAA probation. Notre Dame received 19 first place votes and 1,004 points in the AP poll 
nesday Nights under the lights on while garnering 305 points and 11 first place votes in the Coaches poll. 
the Astroturf at Cartier Field. "I believe it will be at least mid-season before we can get a true line on who are the bestteams in the country," said Parseghian. "This early in 
FCA meets this

the season, a poll is just guess work." "I would be a lot happier being No. 1 if this were January." 
Thursday night 
The Notre Dame Chapter of the
AP Poll UPI Poll 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes· 
~EW YOHK (l'I'IJ-Tht• 191~ l'nll­
(FCA) will meet on Thursday,
Tht• Top Tln·nty, "11h flr,l·plan• t•d Pres.' lntPmational Board of l'oarh­I'Oit·s in parPntht•so:s. St•m,on n·<·ord and 
September 19 at 7:00 in Room 24 of 
l'S lop 20 major coli<'.!;!' football rulinl-(sInial points. Points tahulah•d on bn.,is of 
Hayes-Healy Center. The major
w!lh won-Josl records and first plart• I. :-loire Daml' (19) 1-1}.0 1.001 
:!O-I!!-IfH~I2-II}.fl.~-7-6-i'>-1-3-t-1: 

rutt.'s in parcnlhest.·~: 
purpose of the session will be the 
~-Ohio Stall' (li) 1-0-0 !l9ll Team Point~ 
election of officers for the school
:1. Oklahoma (IK) 1-0-0 ~tll I. Ohio Sl~lt• t:!'J) I-0 .3~5 
year.

4. 
-;,•bra»ka. 1-11-0 i:!M 2. Solrt• Dame Cll) J-0 :!Il-l 

5. 
-\labama t41 1-0-U iH 3. Alabama 1-U -~'tiH 


Last Friday evening, members 
ti. ~I lt·hi~an . 1-0-U 'i!IO 4. St•bmska 1-U. .231 
and friends of FCA gathered at the
7. Louisiana Stat~ 1-1~0 527 5. 'dl<"hlgan I 1-0 .~19 
home of Ken Milani, assistant
H. l't•nn Stalt• . 1-0-0 H3 6. LSt: 1-0. ltiH 
9. Texas 1-0-0 419 7. Pt•nn Stale 1-0 13i 
professor of accountancy, for a 
10. Arkansa' 1-0-0 3/ll M. Texas J-0 .Iii 
cook-out. After dinner, Mark
II . .\wona Sial<' 1-U-0 210 9. Arkansas 1-0 .. 75 
12. tTL.\ . 0-U-1 14H 10. .-\rlzona State 1-0 
Brenneman, ND center, discussed 
13. S. Califomm . 11-1 117 II. tTL\ 0-0-1 . 
the Georgia Tech game and of­
14 'dai')·Jand. . : 11-1-0 95 12. (Til') Tt•nnt•ssec 0-0-1 J:;. 1'11tsburgh 1-11-0 93 lie Tt•xas \& M 1-0 . 
fered his reflections on what it The Irish sailinq team opens their season hosting the Notre Dame 
:>;n Carolina St. 2-0-0 9~ 14. (Tic Mai')·Jand 0-1 . ;j 
meant to be a Christian and an Fall Regatta this Saturday at Diamond Lake.
1i Tt•nnt•S.<;t>(• . 11-IH \lll (Til') Florida 1-0 ....5 
athlete.

1H \nzona . . 1-1"1 :i!! 16. (Tit•) Snulht•m California 0-1 :l 19 lloustnn 1-1-0 :ut (Tit•) l'ittshur.~;h 1-0 
The members of FCA are *****************k***********+****** 
Stanford 1~1-0 :«t IH. ~nrth rarolina Sial!' 1-0 2 
planning to attend the October 1 
ou,·~ r<'!1•inng l'n!t•s, Jb1t•d alpha­(Til') G!'orgia J-0 ~ l•·lll·all) · \uhurn. r.t·orgta. llhnms. (TiP) llntL,ton J-l . ·• 
Bethel College lecture featuring 
1\ansas. 1\('nt Stak. \liami, ~·Ia .. ~hehi­~oh•: l!y agn•t•mt•nt w1th tht• .-\nwri­
former Green Bay quarterback 
1 * PEP RALLY i. 
~an srah·. \l!s.'''-"PPI. '>lls.<;Oun. :'\orth l'3n ~·ootb<~l l'oaeht•s. l!'ams on proba­
(and FCA member) Bart Starr.
Carolina. Oklahoma Stalt•, Tt•xa' \IDI. tion by lht• SCAA an.• int'ligiblt• for lop Tt·~a!. To·l'h. WIS<'nnsin ~'II and national champion!.hip considt•r­
Anyone interested in further in­* * 
alion b\· lht• t 'PI l!oarrl of Coacht•s. 
formation about FCA and its up­
ThuS<• ieams l'Urrt•nll) om probation 


! Thursday Evening $
coming activities please contact
are: Oklahoma. S~IC. California. l.nng 
llt>al'h Slah· anti ~uulhl\t'''''nl Louis-
Jim Early 0434) or Jim Reinhart 
* *


•ana 
(1522). 



,----_Uhe WinJjammer 
Directions from campus: 

South Bend's only complete Hair Care Center 
I. Go west on Angela, 

for the sexes, four expert stylists are ready to 
cross U.S. 31 and 

serve you, complete with the full line of 
continue to Lincoln 

famous RK products. Call now. All services 
Way West 

by appointment, so you don't have to wait! 
2. Turn right. 
3. Spot the Windjamme~ 

ship on iliH~ht! Uhe WinJjammer 
1637 Lincoln Way W. 232-6622 


! 7:30 : 
: COACHES: MURPHY KELLY : 
* *
*: THE NOTRE DAME :* : CHEERLEADERS & : : SEVERAL FOOTBALL : : PLAYERS : 
* * 
$Dillon -Alumni Courtyard a 
* *
* *
$ EVERYONE INVITED! ! 
*****************************+*****• 





