
serving the notre dome -st. mary's community 
Thursday, March 28, 197•
Xol: VIII, No. 100 

Ass~es public attitude 
ND Center reSEXJrches survey 
Nearly three out of four Americans believe that the energy shortage is a serious long range problem, ac­cording to a study released yesterday by the Notre Dame Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society. 
The survey is the most extensive assessment of public attitude toward the energy crisis to date, and was supervised by Dr. William T. Liu, professor of sociology at the University and director of the center. The study reveals that 72 percent of the American public feel the energy shortage is serious, with the shortage of gasoline for automobiles the most serious form of the crisis. 
voluntary conservation 
The study indicates that Americans would willingly comply with six voluntary conservation measures. For example, an estimated 94 per cent would observe a · 55 mile per hour speed limit on public highways, and 90 per cent would cut back on "downtown" or metropolitan driving. In addition, the same 90 per cent would not object to postponing long trips. 
80 per cent of those surveyed would tune their cars every 4,000 miles willingly, but surprisingly, only 60 per cent favored making such a practice mandatory for all American car owners. 73 per cent would refrain from driving one day each week. Although only 50 per cent would cooperate with measures to limit gasoline puchases to 35 gallons per month, 73 per cent would agree to limit purchases to 10 gallons per purchase. 
As a matter of fact, the results of the survey imply 
that 64 per cent of Americans have already adopted 
voluntary measures to conserve fuel. For example, a 
substantial number have formed car pools. But should 
the shortage worsen, many Americans believe they 
would have difficulties finding alternatives to tran­
sportation by automobile. For example, while 26 per 
cent could find other ways to go shopping and 21 per 
cent could find another way to get to work, only five per 
cent of those driving on the job could find alternative 
transportation. 

mandatory conservation 
According to the survey, the public would only favor four involuntary conservation measures -and two of Dr. William T. Liu supervised research group whict analyxed Harris POll. 

these are already receiving widespread use. 88 per cent favor favor a mandatory speed limit of 55 miles per hour; 76 percent support the practice of closing gas stations on Sunday (before the President's lifting of the Sunday gas ban) ; 60 per cent advocate mandatory 4,000 mile tune-ups; and 51 per cent would restrict the use of air conditioners in automobiles. 
Six involuntary conservation measures examined in the survey registered strong opposition. The banning of private cars from downtown areas would be opposed by 59 per cent of the public, and 53 per ce1~· ar~ against limiting gasoline sales to three or four days a week. The reduction of parking spaces and the escatation of parking fees would be deemed unfavorable by 57 of every 100 Americans. The raising of bridge tolls and the closing of gas stations on Sunday met the same percentage of opposition, 57 per cent. Any law requiring car pools for people who drive more than 10 miles to work would encounter opposition from 78 per cent of the American public. 
personal impact The energy shortage has personally affected 51 per cent of the survey group. Those who felt most critically affected were those living on both coasts, those in suburbs, those with incomes of $15,000 or more, blacks, those under 50 years of age, and heavy drivers. Overall, 60 per cent of the public believed their own geographical region was receiving its fair share of available gasoline. But the East, only 42 per cent 

Dance Marathon nets over s1400 
Bob Brennan and Coleen Hogan, Four couples participated in the representing the Pitt Club in the marathon, and all four danced the second annual Muscular entire 48 hours with four hours Dystrophy Dance Marathon, were sleep each night. They danced to announced as winners after records and to an occasional band totaling a contribution of $929.86. on Friday and Saturday nights. The marathon began at 4:00p.m. Trip Marqua and Mary Lanois Friday, March 22 and ended 48 finished second netting $337.45. hours later on Sunday, March 24. Paul Kluga and Kri..1>SY Grogan, 
Sponsored by Student Govern-sponsored by s.:ction 10-A of ment, the Marathon netted over Flanner Hall came in a close third. $1400 as opposed to the $3100 total A four~h couple, Colleen Hughes in last year's event. and Porba Douglas, was sponsored . 
Beach Boys tickets 
ACC sales heavy 
By Drew Wallech 
Staff Reporter 

Tickets for the Beach Boys Concert, planned for Saturday, April 20, sold heavily yesterday at theACC and Student Union Ticket Offices. 
The lobby at the ACC was full most of the morning, according to Donald Bouffard, Ticket Manager. 2000 tickets for $6.50 seats, mainfloor and lower arena, were sold at the ACC while the Student Union ticket office sold its full allotment 0300) of the $5.50 seats. 
"We are almost out of bleacher seats in front of the stage," commented Bouffard. Asked if sales went as expected, Bouffard answered, "When they were here last year demand was heavy and we expected it to be heavy again." 
Bill Reinke, junior from Grace Hall, was among the first in line for this morning's sales at the ACC. He reported that the crowd grew steadily after the doors· were opened at 7 a.m. and that one person had even spent the night at the ticket officewindow. 
Tempers rose throughout the day but there were no serious outbreaks. 
"I think distribution went well,"Reinke commented. "People who got up early got good tickets and those who didn't. .. " 
Bouffard noted that 300 tickets were sold by mail order. These were the only advance sales before yesterday, according to Bouffard. 
Irish Wake fix togo on sale 
Two hundred of the four hun­
dred fifty tickets available for the 
Irish Wake will be on sale at the 
Student Union Ticket Office at I:00 
on Friday afternoon, it was con­
firmed today by Richard Donovan 
of the Student Union. There 
seemed to be some confusion 
about the information in Wed­
nesday's Observer regarding .a 
discount to be given to those who 
buy Beach Boys tickets and tickets 
to the Wake. 
"No concert tickets are being 
held for any package sale," em­
phadized Donovan. 
Instead, those who have pur­
chased a pair of concert tickets 
will be given a Wake ticket <one 
ticket is good for each couple) at 
the discount price of $2.00 upon 
presentation of the pair of concert 
tickets. 
The remaining two hundred fifty 
tickets will be sold in the dining 
halls on a first come, first served 
basis. The price of these tickets 
will be $4.00 per couple. 

by St. Mary's Academy school for girls in South Bend. The girls constantly received support from visitors from the Academy during the entire weekend. 
Meals were donated by 
McDonalds, Roccos, Perkins Pancake House, Barnaby's, Kentucky Fried Chidken, and Burger Chef. Refreshments, entertainment following the marathon and medical care were given by Student Government. 
agreed With thlS conclusion, while a 44 per cent plurality thought the East was not getting a fair shake. 
Those Americans who see the problem as serious view the crisis as a long term problem. The study indicates that 21 per cent feel it will last for a year, 29 per cent from two to five years, and 15 per cent for six or more years. 
attitude toward government handling 
Although most Americans would oppose rationing (except in the case which would lower gas prices), the report implies that the public is looking for strong government leadership to deal with the problem. Nevertheless, 47 per cent gave federal energy ad­minstrator William E. Simon a negative rating, which would suggest public disappointment with federal handling fo the problem. On the 'other hand, 25 per cent expressed a positive attitude towards Simon. 
47 per cent believe the government does not know enough of the facts to handle the · problem effectively, and 76 per cent suggest the reason is that the major oil companies have witheld information on the supply of oil. 
conclusions 
Interviews for the survey were conducted among a statistically representative cross section of about 1,600 Americans on February 6 and 13 of this year by Louis Harris and Associates, Inc., a national public opinion survey organization. The results were analyzed by a Notre Dame research group supervised by Dr. Liu. The study was supported by a grant from the Shell Oil Company. 
The research team arrived at three conclusions why some individuals are not voluntarily conserving fuel. 
First of all, the team believes these individuals are not really convinced that the shortage is real. Rather, they think the whole crisis is a creation of either the federal government or the major oil companies. 
Secondly, the group concluded that many feel they are not receiving their fair share in the first place and thus refuse to sacrifice further. 
Finally ,the public has yet to receive strong direction and encouragement from public officials which would assure them that such voluntary steps are necessc:.;-y. 


• .y· 

the o15server Thursday, March 28, 1974 
Sophomore Weekend 
warld 

briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPH-The wife of convicted Watergate con­spirator Jeb Stuart Magruder says the intense pressures on White House aides led to the chain of events that became the Watergate scandal. 
Covina, Calif. <UPI)-A 19-year-old juror hearing an obscenity trial of the movie "Deep Throat" was removed Wednesday after the judge learned he had been involved in a streaking incident. 
OLIVET, Mich. <UPI>-Alger Hiss believes his old adversary, President Nixon, could make his best contribution to his country by becoming an ex-president. 
MOSCOW <UPH-Vyacheslav Fishkin, 19, a Moscow Jew who has applied to go to Israel, has begun a hunger strike. to protest at­tempts to draft him into the army, Jewish sources sa1d Wednesday. 
VATICAN CITY <UPH-Pope Paul VI appeared at his study window despite about with influenza Wednesday to bless a crowd of 20,000 in St. Peter's Square. 
LONDON <UPI)-A London magistrate Wednesday postponed until April 24 a lawsuit charging former soccer star George Best with stealing a fur coat from ex-Miss World Marjorie Wallace. 
an campus laday 
4:00 p.m. seminar "trapped electrons In methanol glass" dr. lewis ferky, rad. lab, conference room free 
7:00p.m. lecture "lules supervellle" by tohn bomer stapelton lounge, saint mary's free 
7:30 p.m. charismatic renewal lntro to charismatic renewal butler building free 8:00p.m. lecture "from history to humanity, part II" by prof. eric voegelln architecture aud. free 
8:00p.m. lent series campus ministry lenten serles(fr. tooney) library aud. free 
8:15 p.m. concert madrigal singers directed by dr. arthur 
lawrence little theatre free 8:30p.m. meeting charlsmlc prayer meeting holy cross hall free 
8:30 p.m. drama plnter's "the homecoming" washington hall 
free 7 and 9 p.m. movie poseidon adventure knightso~ colu':"~us $~.00 
8:00 
p.m.lecture christian faith in a technological ctvtlizafton by gabriel vahanlan, remington professor of religion a syracuse university room 278 of galvin life science center free 

8:00 
p.m.lecture dennis banks, defendat In wounded knee trial engineering aud. free 




Newspaper editor. stall charged 
inBowlingGreen election fraud 
by Bill Sohn· Staff Reporter 

Two Bowling Green University students have charged the editor and three staff members of the campus newpaper with "the fraudulent use of voting validation cards in a recent univ~rsity election. 
According to Joan Gestl, editor of the Bee Gee News, she and three staff members used the cards in order to expose the loose running of university elections. She ex­plained that, after voting them­selves, the four obtained the validation cards of friends who did not intend to vote and used them to obtain election ballots. These ballots were then stamped with "Bee Gee News" and deposited in theballot box. 
Gestl added that students are supposed to produce both validation and "picture" iden­tification cards in order to obtain ballots. 
The Observer Js publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. SubscriptiOns may be purchased for U per semester In• per year l from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana •6556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind . 
• 46556. ' ' 
Later, two Bowling Green students filed charges against Gestl and the three staff members. 
Given the option of having the charges decided upon by the dean or by a student arbitration board, Gestl and her staff members decided upon the arbitration board since the charges were made by students. The case has yet to be brought before the board. 
The penalties for a "guilty" decision range from the issuance of a warning to expulsion from the 

Meet Your Maior 
ECONOMICS 
Sunday, March 31 
8 P.M. 
Memorial Library Lounge 
St. Mary's to host parents 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's sophomores will treat their parents during Sophomore Parents Weekend to a variety of activities, ranging from a cocktail part to an academic open house on campus beginning tomorrow. 
A cocktail party and dance in the Grand Ballroom of the Albert Pick Hotel forsophomores their parents, and their escorts on Friday night begins the weekend. Co-ehairmen . Melanie Hackett and Kathy Carrigan noted that regardless of whether their parents attend or not, SMC sophomores can bring their dates to this event. 
On Saturday morning, an auc­tion to raise money for the Muscular Dystrophy campaign 
·will be held in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
At I :00 , sophomores and their parents are scheduled to attend an Academic Open House, at which, Dr. Richard C. Pilger, chemistry and physics professor and chairman of the faculty senate, will be the principle speaker. Later in the afternoon, the students and their parents will tour the departments and meet with department chairmen. 
The evening's events begin with a wine and cheese party with faculy and administration in Stapleton Lounge, which will be followed by a banquet. At the dinner, SMC President Dr. Ed­ward L. Henry will welcome the parents and, Dr. Ark A. Banbanek, chemistry professor will be the featured speaker. 
A special showing of "I'm Gonna Sing" the film featuring the St. Mary's College Choir's '73 European summer tour followed by entertainment by the sophomores in the music depart­ment, highlight Saturday night's entertainment. 
At 10:00 a.m. Sunday morning , Mass will be celebrated in the Church of Loretto for the girls and their parents. 
Registration will be held on Friday afternoon between 2 and 6 
p.m. or from 10-12 a.m. on Saturday. According to Hackett and Carrigan, "registration is 
University. 
However, Gestl claims that she and the other defendants plan to appeal any decision other than complete exoneration. 
According to the Cleveland Plain Dealer, the regional director of Sigma Delta Chi, William P. Day, reports that his national professional journalism society has researched the affair and will support the defendants. He believes that freedom of the press is the issue. 
extremely important." The girls parents are expected for the themselves may pick up their weekend, said Carrigan "We're parents' registration envelope, really excited about the turnout. 
containing a program of events, Originally, we were afraid that name tags and banquet tickets, because of the energy crisis, the they add. turnout wouldn't be this good," she 
Approximately 180 sets of noted. 
handmade indian turquoise jewelry 
bracelets -rinas · neckoieces-earrinqs-etc. 
All REASONABlY PRICED 
(great for grad. gifts or for yourself) PH. 7833 OR DROP IN 10 LYONS AFTER 7 P.M. 



The Playhouse-/ 
525 N. Hill TONIGHT • 2 SHOWS at 9:00 & 12:30 

BOB SEGER 
and low Rent tickets available at the door 
Happy Hour Mon-Fri 5-7 p.m. Drinks are 2 for 1 
Live Music by the Mark Bloom Band 

no cover charge 


Thursday. March 28. 1974 the observer 
Gas shortage cuts traffic deaths 
By United Press International 
A year ago an average of two persons died every day in automobile accidents in Mary­land. Illinois counted an aver­age of five each day in early 1973. Utah averaged one high­way death every 30 hours. 
Today the figures in these states, and most others across the United States, have dropped sharply, up to 50 per cent in several instances, and safety experts attribute it to the gasoline shortage and the national 55 mile an hour speed limit imposed to help conserve fuel. 
Maryland's average has 
dropped to one fatality each 
day. Illinois deaths declined to 
3.5 daily and Utah now averages one fatality each week. 
Vincent 'l'ofany, president of the National Safety Council, estimated Wednesday that there will be a saving of 8,500 lives in 1974 when all the figures are added up. 
He estimated that traffic deaths were down an average of 25 per cent since the lower 
speed limits  were  adopted.  
"We  recognize  that  there  has  
been  less  travel  but  it  has  

proven very clearly that speed is a big factor in the deaths that occur after accidents happen. Speed limits play a vital role in the deaths and injuries that occur," he said. 
A survey by United Press International showed declining highway death tolls in all parts of the nation, attributed in almost all cases to the lower speed limits and reduced Sunday driving because most service stations were closed. 
In California, which has led the nation in traffic deaths for many years, pressure is in­creasing from legislators and law enforcement officers to switch to a 65 m.p.h. speed limit. 
California deaths dropped 29.9 

per cent during the first two months of the lower national speed limit, but highway patrol commission Walter Pudinski called for immediate repeal of the law. He feels that the reduced toll is the result of fewer cars on the road, not lower speeds, and that as soon as there is an increase in gasoline supplies the toll will rise. 
Gov. Ronald Reagan thinks the speed limit should return to 65 miles per hour when the energy situation improves. 
"Those who have the respon­sibility to establish speed limits should look very hard at the safety implications which ap­pear to be evident from the results of the highway fatality reductions," Tofany said. For every 10 miles of speed over 50 miles an hour, the likelihood of being killed doubles with each 10 miles." 
Illinois state police superin­
tendent Dwight E. Pitman is 
Three priorities discussed 




Renovation stressed 
by Joel Burian Staff Reporter 

Three proposed priorities for the LaFortune renovation were discussed at a Committee meeting held last night in the pit. The Committee showed most concern for expansion of the Huddle, the refurnishing and remodeling of the main lobby, and the moving and expansion of student services offices. 
The Renovation Committee feels that the $250,000 allotment would 
be  utilized  best  for  these  three  
suggested priorities.  
Fr.  Jerome  Wilson,  vice  

president of Business Affairs, stressed that expansion of the Huddle is the most important issue. According to the plans, the Huddle would expand into the present Tom Dooley room, north of the sunken sunroom, and into the amphitheater, south of the sunroom. This would probably mean tables with service, the Committee explained. 
The remodeling and refurnishing of the main lobby would include the moving of the Student Activities Offices into the existing TV lounge. 
Also, a Student Information Office would moveinto the officevacated by the Student Activities. This office would contain the Student Union Ticket booth. 
The student services offices, consisting of Student Government, Student Union, and student publications, would also undergo expansion or relocation. The Student Union and Student Government offices would remain at their present sites, but would expand into the northern half of the Fiesta Lounge. The Observer, The Dome, and The Scholastic would all be located on the third floor. 

A suggestion was made for establishing a gam\) room somewhere in the baaement. The room would have an arcade affect somewhat like the arcade in Scottsdale Mall with pin-ball machines and air hockey. An amusement company has offered to set up a game room provided their machines were used. However, no permanent plans on this proposal have materialized, because of allocation of an ap­propriate place and necessary equipment. 
The LaFortune Committee is now awaiting a decision from the Board of Trustees concerning their proposals. The decision will be made and finalized in May. 
Hopes for student involvement 
by Mike Davis Staff Reporter 

The Community Services Commission took an important step towards consolidating their position as a viable force on campus last night in a meeting at LaFortune Student Center. 
Some of the topics acted on were the implementation of drives within the individual halls to collect money for Muscular Dystrophy; assisting in setting up the volunteer list for the blood drive to take place at the ACC on April 3, 4, 5; and setting up volunteers for a bike drive to take place on April 28 under the auspices of Logan Center. 
The Community Services Commission, under the arm of the Hall Presidents Council, had 17 of 20 halls attending, along with a representative from Saint Mary's. 
"Much can be accomplished through direct communication with the students on a hall to hall basis. We hope to draw the student out into some type of active in­volvement in the community," said Brother Joe McTaggert after the meeting. McTaggert is assistant rector of Fisher Hall. 
The representatives in the halls will be coming around in the next few weeks on a door to door basis and through the hall council in attempting to implement their policy of active involvement for 


Jim 
'63 
Chuck 
'65

1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-,9800 
BEER SPECIALS 
CASE BEER LESS THAN $400 
PAUL MASSOJt WtNE FILLfD CARAFES . AVAilABLE Only f~ur NO Football Players Bottles left 
EAST ON EDISON· LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD­

the projects they have planned. The Commission has required that anyone with a worthy cause report to Father Schlaver's office if they ~re in need of volunteers. 
When? Where? What? 
Why? 

among those who believe the lower speed cut highway deaths because "it automatically reduces the severity of ac­
cidents." 
In Virginia, the death toll dropped from 238 to 188, in Oregon from 121 to 96, in Georgia from 151 to 89 and Missouri from 70 to 55 in periods since the speed limit 
was lowered compared with ~identical periods of 1973. 
Mississippi reported 25 traffic deaths so far this month compared with 79 in 1973. 
"March could distinguish itself by recording the fewest number of fatalities for any month in the last 10 years," a Mississippi highway patrol spokesman said. 


THE OBSERVER 
NOW HIRING FOR THE POSITION OF BUSINESS MANAGER 

* APPLICANTS MUST BE ACCOUNTANCY MAJORS * 
send resume to editor, box q, notre dame, before april 3. 


MEET YOUR MAJOR 
Speech &Drama (General) Speech 
Inter-personal communication 
w 
ND 
Theatre ArtsI 
I-(Dance)

SMC Film/Broadcasting 
Speech Education 
Department of 

Speech and Drama 

AFTERNOON SOCIAL 
Sunday, March 31 at 2:00 P.M. 
little Theatre, Moreau Halt, St. Mary's 
Mime Show: Peter And The Wolf; 
Tour of Broadcasting Stud~o; Refreshments Opportunity for prospective maiors to meet 
fcicutty & get aq\Jainted with pragrom 
... .. 
~· 
. . . .
-··--·---------.. ..._._..t.,,,. , 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Marlene Zloza 
AnnMcCarry 
Managing Editor 
Editorial Editor 

LeeGentine Business Manager  Terry Keeney News Editor  John Kloos Advertising Manager  
Thursday, March 28, 1974  

VVhere Were You? 
After 48 hours, the music stopped, the food was devoured and the dancers rested. The second annual Muscular Dystrophy Dance Marathon ended Sunday afternoon with the same four couples that began the dance Friday afternoon. Much credit and congratulations should be extended to all the contestants, whether they were winners or runners-up. 
Only praise can be offered to the participants who netted $1700 for the South Bend Community MS fund. Although this year's contribution was far less than the $3100 given last year, the marathoners showed just as much en­thusiasm and worked just as hard as last year's contestants. 
Several questions remain to be asked about the disproportionate spirit and interest. How much enthusiasm did the rest of the ND community show during the weekend-s activities? How many people responded ta the music and ventured up to the LaFortune Ballroom in support of the couples with a donation or by presence alone? How many ex­cuses can people enumerate to explain their disinterest and lack of concern? 
Several plausible reasons can be af­forded in answer to the small par­ticipatory response this year. 
Perhaps students concern for 

Ticket 
Tickets for the Beach Boys's Concert went on sale yesterday at both the ACC and the Student Union ticket offices. Things went smoothly at the SU office, but unfortunately this was not true of the ACC. 
A statement was made in an article in today's Observer commenting that 'people who got up early got good tickets'. 
Such was not the case in yesterday's sales, however. 
The image of the students-both male and female-came across in Wed­nesday's arena as immature, little brats. One wonders if the students who pushed their way to the front of the line have ever had to wait for anything.
Yesterday's free-for-all was typical of many other ticket sales for major events-too many. Students arrive early, position themselves in line, only to be lost in a grand shuffle when the windows finally open. The late-comers thus find themselves in a very acceptable position-the front of the line. . 
But the audacity of the student doesn't 
the observer 

Morning Editor: AI Rutherford Asst. Night Editors: Mike Kulczycki, Dan Sanchez Layout: Dean Janke Copy Editor: Bob Quakenbush, Jeanne Murphy Day Editor: Greg Bangs, Pattie Cooney, Tom Rosso Typists: Mary Romer, Barb Norcross, Barb Haug, John Flannigan, Tom Modglin 
academics and test-studying took preference over a Student Government community affairs activity. But what about those study breaks and short trips to the Huddle? It only takes a few minutes to get to the Ballroom from the Huddle to see what's going on up there. 
Another probable explanation could be insufficient publicity. Posters were located all over campus and an­nouncements made through the campus media several weeks in advance. 
However, if the Marathon attracted the attention of St. Mary's Academy in SB, enough to sponsor a couple, surely enough notice reached the students at ND. 
Perhaps the scheduling of "Cabaret" over the weekend distracted possible support and visitors. Perhaps spring break interrupted intentions to enter the Marathon. Perhaps the HPC made a mistake in scheduling the event now instead of during An Tostallike last year. 
The real reason for the poor campus wide participation is nebulous. However, let us keep these reasons in mind for next year's Dance Marathon and strive. for more community interest, spirit and action. 
Next year, will you "Dance for those who can't?" 
-Jeanne Murphy 

Chase 
end there. The usual 'I'm looking for a 
friend' line is employed, and God help 
you if you question their integrity! 
A sign-up list did circulate through the 
first twenty or so students in the early 
morning hours, but late arrivals were 
unaccounted for. 
An Tostal is perhaps the biggest 
weekend of the second semester ... Even 
Mr. Donald Bouffard, Business Manager 
of theACC, anticipated a heavy turnout. 
He did nothing, however, to help alleviate 
the situation. 
The Student Union, Ombudsman or anyother branch of the student government should have been there. Their services were definitely needed in some form to monitor the lines, even to provide sign-up sheets. It's truly a shame such childish measures are needed, but they are ob­viously necessary steps. 
Tempers did indeed rise at the ticket 
sales yesterday. Perhaps, in the future, 
the common courtesy of the students 
should rise accordingly. -Al Rutherford 
Compugraphic: Tom Wlch Night Controller: Phil Orscheln Pictures: Bert D'Antonio Sports: Greg Corgan, Bill Delaney Features: Robert Baker Editorials: Ann McCarry Our thanks to the mysterious streaker. 
To Father Toohey 


"Well, something is happening here, 
And you don't know what it is, 
Do you, Mr. Jones?'' 
--Bob Dylan, from "Ballad of a Thin Man" 
On Monday, Father Bill Toohey displayed what will for me serve as one of the best examples of the "Mr. Jones effect." His comments on Dylan's "return" left me with a sense of dismay. He had entirely missed the meaning of Dylan's tour and new album. 
In the first place, Father Toohey said that the "enormously suc­cessful revival may provide interesting datum about the American adolescent mind." In the next paragraph he said that most of the people that Dylan had played for were young. I was present at two of Dylan's concerts, and along with the reading I have done about the tour, it seems to me that Toohey is wrong on both counts. The audience ranged from early-twenties to mid-thirties, for the most part. If you call that the American adolescent mind, then you must be re-defining the word adolescent. 
As Michael McClure wrote in a recent article in "Rolling Stone," "All in all, except for a number of bodies, one did not mind being there. There were some of the best people around, a part of the backbone of the future--the people with hope and some enthusiasm in a country run over for eight years by the War Machine." 
I think that Toohey was grossly wrong when he interpreted Dylan's comeback (if you want to call it that, I tend to think that, after listening to his new songs, he has never left--he's just been "Sitting here quietly, watchin' the river flow") as some sort of new call-to­arms. As Dylan says in "Wedding Song": 
"It's never been my duty 
To remake the world at large 
Nor is it my intention 
To sound a battle charge." 

The main thrust of Dylan's new songs is somewhat domestic and 
inspirational. They no longer deal with going out and doing something 
about the ugliness and pain in the world, for if we have learned 
anything by the lessons of Kent State and burning cities, it is that in 
direct confrontationwith the ugly, the beautiful only hecome stained. 
People are getting tired of being screwed over by the War Machine and 
it's about time they learned that to fight it is to surrender to its games. 
To see Dylan and the Band get up on stage and play music that felt 
good, and to project messages that carried even stronger feelings, was 
to me a witnessing of the new mood that has come over the country. I 
think that a lot of people are getting back on their feet, are beginning 
to build a sor t of security amidst the ashes of the sixties. A lot of 
important change occurred then, some bad things were torn down and 
some good things reinstated. Right now, then, I think that people are 
going to develop new sets of values to correlate with the immense 
changes. Ifwhat Dylan is saying is any sort of indication as to what is 
going on (and it usually is), then we are beginning to move in a 
direction of greater self-awareness, greater sensitivity to the pockets 
of beauty on earth, and a realization that the horrible things that are 
going on around are senseless and the result of the impulses of min­
dless destruction. 
The solutions, then, and the measures for survival being taken now, 
come in the form of people slowing down and taking notice of their own 
lives. This will not be a period of external revolutions, but of internal 
ones. The front will not be on the streets, but in the hearts. 
"May your hands always be busy May your feet always be swift May you have a strong foundation When the winds of changes shift." 

We are entering a period of new enlightenment. There are lessons of 
history that need very much to be absorbed. To fight further now 
would be foolish and harmful to the soul. What is important now is to 
build "a strong foundation." 
I would recommend to Father Toohey that he go to the bookstore and 
buy a copy of Dylan's "Planet Waves." This is not a phenomenon of 
the American adolescent mind, but the directions that most people in 
America are heading toward. 
The discoloration error, and con­sequent obliteration of much print on yesterday's Point -Counterpoint page was due to negligence on the part of the printer. 
The editors apologize to yesterday's contributors for the error which in no way bears any reflection on the content of their articles. Our apologies also, to our rea,ders for any inconvenience. 
---~----·--------------­

~---------------~-------------------~ ~~-~-~ ~ l 
I 

Thursday, March 28, 1974 the observer 5 
I 
I 
t

·coming home with bergman ~ 
by kathy schwille 

the house, but Lenny and Joey waste A sightseeing trip to Venice becomes a trip Mark Swiney does a fine job as Max and has A lot of directors can take some college no. time partaking of Ruth's "wide-open" to Boulder, Colorado. A delightful contrast, at last shown us he can act in parts that call talent, cast it in a good, strong drama and 
emerge with a decent production. A few charms, beneath everyone's noses, in­if nothing else. Tarts become broads, yanks for more than cleverness and urbanity. cluding Teddy's. Teddy, however shocked become limeys, and yobs turn into johns. It Chris •Ceraso does the best he can with the 
directors can take that same college talent, 
doesn't seem to mind a bit. He minds so is posible that Bergman altered the setting illogical, unenviable role of Teddy. Teddy'scast it in a mediocre play of dubious worth little in fact that he leaves Ruth to be shared to dissolve the communication gap that behavior -or lack of it -is one of the mostand come out with an exciting work of by the family: as a wife of sorts, for Max, a might ensue from gutter English being absurd aspects of the play, but Cerasoquality. Richard Bergman has done just 
mother for Joey, and a call girl for Lenny. spoken in front of audiences who are used to handles it with his usual cool.
that with the current Notre Dame-Saint 
Mary's Theatre execution of The Teddy trots home to England alone and only gutter American. It was probably a The part of the eccentric, conceited apparently none the worse for it. wise decision, but the transposition removes brother Sam is played by Dan Daily. Daily
Homecoming. 
The Homecoming is one of the lesser­The original setting of Pinter's work is, in some of the challenge and even some of the is the talented freshman who played fact, England. Bergman has transplanted charm of the parts. Hastings in Richard III earlier this season.
known comedies of contemporary British the from London to New York and Nevertheless, the roles in He is subltle yet persuasive actor who seemsplaywright Harold Pinter. A man who r"''"ri>H"'" certain tO SUit. Homecoming are not easy ones to to have a versatility that hopefully willfashioned his own sort of absurd theatre, prove valuable to further productions. WithPinter is fond of throwing a lot of Bergman's help, Daily has added a depth tofragmented senseless dialogue together the character of Sam that just is not evidentthen ducking out the back door without in Pinter's lines alone. Never one to resistexplaining any of it. Although, The an opprotunity to shock an audience,Homecoming is not one of his better works, Bergman has added some ingenious touches it nevertheless bears the Pinter stamp of to the action. Describing them here would 
episodic intensification. Dramatic action and logic are kept to a minimum, insanity ruin some surprises, but watch Sam 
carefuly after he bids farewell to Ruth inand confusion are kept to a maximum. 

Act Two.

The plot, what there is of it, revolves Diana Shaheen is delightfully cheap as thearound a rather lascivious family of men seductive Ruth and Peter Korth will makedwelling deep in the bowels of New York your wrist go limp as the faggy Lenny.
City. Max, a seedy old bull of seventy is the Little brother Joey, in typical Cliff Fetters
head of the household. Sam, Max's younger eccentric brother, also lives in the house. fashion, becomes a brooding, overgrown 
adolescent with searching, sad-dog eyes. ItMax has three sons, two of whom live at is not a large part, requiring more physicalhome. Joey aspires to be a boxing cham­

a attributes than dramatic, but Fetters doespion, and Lenny is by occupation not do much for the role. It does absolutely smalltime pimp. Teddy, the vlde£t son, is a nothing for him either.
Doctor of Philosophy and has been living in England for six years. The story develops The Homecoming is a menacing, when Teddy suddenly appears for a visit grotesquely amusing drama about man at and brings along his wife Ruth. Although he some of his darkest, least understood has been married to Ruth for six years and moments. There are times, Pinter tells us, has never mentioned her to the family, when our actions so closely approach the Teddy has brought her home to get absurdities on the stage that the only thing acquainted. Get acquainted they do, and left to do is laugh. Go to Washington Hall what results is a meeting of some of the this week and take your sense of humour most lust-filled philosophies this side of with you, but know also that you are wat­42nd Avenue. ching the embodiment of impulses that 
According to Max, no whores are allowed in throb quietly in all of the people around you.
(Photo by Maria Gallagher.) 


black perspectives in transition 
The theme of the current Black Arts festival, Black various dramatic sequences -called Rituals --which deal successful. Perspectives in Transition, best sums up the festival's with dope addiction in Black communities, the blues; law In addition to his recording and performing activities, goal: to examine the new directions and aims of Black and order, the church, and love. These Rituals can be Bartz composed the theme and score for an ABC-TV people. The festival does just that with a serious look at performed in any setting with a limited number of per­special titled "About Time" which aired last fall. various Black expresssions in drama, art, and music. formers. He defines his output as African Music, not jazz, but 
On Saturday, March 30 at 3 p.m. the Kuumba Workshop The major force behind Kuumba and the featured adds that "I'm trying to decaterogize things with and will conduct a "Ritual." This form of theater maximizes performer of Saturday's workshop is Mrs. Val Gray about myself. I realize why categories exist, but there are audience participation through an integration of music, Ward, an accomplished actress, director, narrator and other alternatives." poetry, and drama. Kuumba has stressed the develop­lecturer on Black culture. Among the otherevents scheduled for the Festival, ment of the"Ritual"form of theatre in which free form She has done lone dramatic concerts interpreting the Congressman Charles W. Diggs will speak in the Library movements are utilized; props, while important at times, works of Black writers, such as Langston Hughes, Auditorium, on Sunay afternoon. And that night Voices aren't imperative for full dramatic impact; and per­Gwendolyn Brooks, W. E. DuBois James Weldon John­Inc., will present "Journey into Blackness" which traces formers can draw fully on traditional Black feeling and son, Richard Wright, and Don L. Le& (now Haki black history from tribal Africa through slavery to the 1 emotion. Spontaneity and improvision are utilized within Madhubuti). Her dramatic interpretations cover the present time. t a broader theatrical form than with traditional Western spectrum of Black writers -from Paul Laurence Dunbar These and other scheduled events make the Festival theater. of the late 1800's to Carolyn Rogers among the current something whch should become an annual event. It's 
Using the "Ritual" form Kuumba has developed generation of younger poets. value cannot be limited 
to only the Black student. 
i 

Mrs. Ward's interpretations are done in the traditional 
l•
style of the old-time Baptist preacher without any of the pretendious formality that marks other interpretations. 
Another unique aspect of the present Festival will be an Exhibition of Black Art by Donald Turner of Terre Haute, Indiana. 
Mr. Turner's display consits of pencil and charcoal drawings and oil paintings. At a recent exhibition in Terre Haute, Mr. Turner's work was appraised as follows: "He has captured on canvas the social, political and economic plight of the Black people throughout the history of the western hemisphere. His art work concentrates on the dignity, identity and humanity of the Black man." 
In his own words Mr. Turner says, "My art seeks to show that art is intimately inter-related to the human experience. It says even though I am a slave, poor man, unrecognized, victimized, devalued, degraded, unem­ployed, on welfare, by the railroad, bought and sold, put down in the worst part of town, I definitley am somebody." 
Mr. Turner's art will be on display in Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune Student Center, March 30 and 31. He will discuss his work at 1:30 p.m., Saturday, in the same location. His work include "Survival," "Unemployment 1 & 2," and "Ghetto News." 
Jazz musician Gary Bartz will perform on Sturday night. Bartz, a celebrated artist, attempts to integrate African folk music with his own personal experience. 
His first professional apperarance was with the Max­Roach-Abbey Lincoln group, followed by a stint with Art Blakey in 1965. He returned to the Roach band in '68-'69, also working with McCoy Tyner's group during the same period. 
Bartz formed his Ntu Troup in 1969, recording five albums for the Milestone label of which the two volume of "Harlem Bush Music" have been the most commercially Gary Bartz

I r J 6 the observer Thursday, March 21, 1974 
I ~eet Your Major'
I 
I I 
Orientates students
I 
I 
I by Pat Flynn
I Staff Reporter
I 
Beginning this Sunday March 31
I 
through Thursday April 4, the
I 
College of Arts and Letters will
I 
sponsor its annual "meet Your
I 
Major Program'.' Over this five
I 
day period each of the depar­I tments of studies will give a formal presentation of the par­ticular characteristics of its major program requirements, special programs, after graduation opportunities etc. 
Each department will give out printed information about their area of studies, and have on hand department chairman, notable faculty members, and students enrolled as majors in the depart­ment to answer questions. 
Guy Randalls, president of the Student Advisory Council of th College of Arts and Letters has been overseeing the preparations for the program. He stated that "the objective of Meet Your Major 
Week is to give people an Iinsight as to what is going on within the different areas of studies." 
Randa)) continues, "Surveys show that one out of five people at Notre Dame change their major at least once. This results for these students in much wasted time taking courses they would not have taken if they had not changed their major. The value of the Meet Your Major Program is to familiarize a student with the workings and opportunities within a particular department before he enters it." 
Dean Waddick, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, emphasized the student par­ticipatory approach adopted by the "Meet Your Major Program." 
"About three years ago we started recruiting upperclassmen students, majoring in a particular department, to be at the depart­ment's presentation, and be available for answering questions. This method has been quite suc­cessful. Students listen to other students and they feel free to ask other students questions which they wouldn't dare ask a depart­ment chairman," he stated. 
Administration of the "Meet Your Major Program" is carried primarily by students. The president of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council appoints a chairman and he then organizes and administers the program with the help of the College of Arts and Letters office. Chairman of the program this year has been Mike Wahoshe, a junior in the Govern­ment department. 
Dean Waddick sees the "Meet Your Major Program" as a "good form of group guidance," and he hopes the individual student will follow up with counseling by the deans of their colleges and the heads of the departments which they are interested in entering. 
Waddick also spoke of the relative success of the program in the past. "In the past years the sophomores have really come out in numbers for the presentations," stated Waddick. "This year we hope to have more freshmen at the sessions, it would enable them to better use their sophomore year in order to experiment with the things they would like to possibly go into." he continued. 
Waddick also defended the program from certain criticisms. He said, "Some people think that the big sessions are impersonal. But it is really the only possible way of presenting all the material that must be presented, without the heads of the departments repeating themselves a thousand times. I have thought about it many times and I can't really think of a better approach." 

Students stre(Ik Emil 
lly Ken Giroaanl S&aff Reporter 

A new and unexpected type of audio-visual aid presented itself on the Notre Dame campus yester­day. In a surprise move, two streakers raced through the 11:15 session of General Chemistry I taught by Dr. Emil T. Hoffman locateri in the Engineering Auditorium. ­
The incident occured twenty minutes into a class lecture on derivating formulas for chemical kinetics. At that point there was a commotion in the classroom as the two streakers made their en-1 trance. Wearing nothing but masks, they burst into auditorium through the front door, sprinted up the near aisle, and departed throug the rear entrance of the classroom. 
again but everyone kept on started laughing then and after we laughing. We did eventually settle stopped, Dr. Hofman started his down, though." lecture again. Then the two 
Bill and Bob Bracale, also streakers came to the back door of membersoftheclass, added, "After the room and waved good-bye." the girls screamed, there was dead One eyewitness summarized his 
silence. Everyone in the class version of the incident simply by looked at Dr. Hofman to see what saying, "That was the best class he would do. He didn't say we ever had." His identity, along · anything, but we all could see that. with the two pranksters, remains he really wanted to crack up. We unknown. 
mczn'l hair 1tyl ng men's hair Stylin 
~n's'!f.irBtqtin 
Dr. Hofman has refused to comment on the episode. 
James Swartz, a member class, gave his eyewitness aooou1ntJI of the streaking. "l was sittinJ~• there·listening to the lecture·ll 111e11•• all of' ... a . sudden some girls screamed.. I turned toward the SOUQd·· ind·-two guys with either magu or nylons oo .their ran . . llP the aisle. naked; tore-®t of the rooin and the class laug~ed for about minutes. Even Dr..no•w•n':... laughed. He tried tostartlecturing\ 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALl--MISHAWAKA.IND. "'6544 · 
-..•.••••.••• 4, . . . . . 
SWING INTO SPRING ON ANEW BIKE 

90 Day Terms-No Interest 305 £. McKinley Ave. Mishawaka 256 1330 
THE OBSERVER IS NOW 
TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITION OF Asst. Advertising Manag~r. (GOOD PAY) 
c 
A M p 
u 
s 
v I E 
w 
-general office work 
-35 hrs. per week 
-begin after Easter, continue thru next year 
call 283-7471 10 am-5 pm 
NOW RENTING 
one and two bedroom 
furnished apartments 
Featuring: 
+ 
SWIMMING POOL 

+ 
COMMUNITY BUit..DING 

+ 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 

+ 
REFRIGERATOR 

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT 

+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south bend· . _ 
RARE EARTH 
and special guest Rory Gallagher 


Thursday, March 28. 1974 the observer 
Artillery at Golan Heights 
Syria and Israel clash 
By United Press International 
Artillery shells screamed across the Golan Heights between Israel and Syria for the 16th consecutive day Wednesday. Israeli Prime Min­ister Golda Meir pledged anew that her country would give up no part of the Syrian territory captured in the 1967 war. 
Israel's military command said Syrian shells wounded two Israeli soldiers and damaged a 
U.N. truce observation post and vehicle in the southern part of the salient Israel thrust toward Damascus in last October's war. 
A Syrian military com­munique said Israel opened fire with tanks and artillery in the central sector of the Heights. When Syrian forces joined 
battle,  the  clashes  extended  to  
the  north.  Syria  reported  no  
casualties.  

The Suez front remained quiet. In Cairo, diplomatic sources said Egypt had pledged to withdraw excess artillery pieces from the Sinai military disengagement zone. 
Israel complained to Lt. Gen. Ensio Siilasvuo of Finland, commander of the U.N. Emer­gency Force <UNEF), about the guns last Thursday. AI-though a U.N. spokesman would not comment, the di­plomatic sources said Siilasvuo had passed Egypt's pledge to Israel. 
Rudolf Stajduhar of Yugos­lavia, the U.N. spokesman, said UNEF conducted an inspection of the zone in Sinai Tuesday. He said Siilasvuo conferred by telephone with Lt. Gen. Mohamed Gamassy, Egyptian chief of staff, and later flew to Tel Aviv for a meeting with 
Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Dayan. 
In Jerusalem, Mrs. Meir told the board of governors of Hebrew University that Israel and Egypt agreed to let U.S. spy planes photograph their restricted frontlines to assure they did not violate their troop disengagement agreement. 
"I can say the United States is working very energetically on this point. I hope that in a matter of days this matter will be rectified. 
Mrs. Meir also told the educators disengagement negotiations with Syria would be very difficult. 
"We are prepared absolutely to move but to move not beyond the boundaries of 1967," she said. 
The prime minister said Israel wants an agreement that provides for the return of 15,000 Syrian refugees from the 18-day October war, a U.N. buffer strip between the armies and the safety of Israeli settlements on the Heights from Syrian artillery. 
She said she expected Secre­tary of State Henry Kissinger to undertake another peace mission to the Middle East late 
in April.  
Kissinger conferring Brezhnev,  was with Soviet  in Moscow Leonid I. Communist  

Party general secretary. One purpose of Kissinger's trip was to talk with Soviet leaders about the Middle East situation. 
Two Israeli newspapers said Dayan would take a plan for for troop disengagement with Syria when he goes to Washington Friday for talks with Kissinger. 
They detailed an Israeli proposal that calls for an Israeli withdrawal from about three-fourths of the bulge and no return of any part of the Golan Heights captured in the 1967 war. Syria has insisted on complete Israel evacuation. 
Wife of Solzhenitsyn to join exiled husband in Switzerland 
BY GORDON F. JOSELOFF 
MOSCOW <UPI> -The wife of author Alexander I. Solzhe­nitsyn said today she will join her husband in exile Friday. She said it was "tortuously painful" to leave Russia but her departure was made bearable by her belief that she will one day return. 
Mrs. Natalya Solzhenitsyn said she will travel with her four children and mother on direct Swissair flight to Zurich, Switzerland. Her departure, six weeks after Solzhenitsyn was stripped of his citizenship and expelled Feb. 13, was delayed by the illness of a child and red tape involved in getting Soviet approval to export her hus­band's archives. 
"My place is by his <Solz­henitsyn's) side," Mrs. Solzhe­nitsyn said in a 500-word farewell statement made avail­able to Western newsmen. 
"It's tortously painful to 
leave, painful to be separated 
from Russia, painful that our 
children are doomed to a life 
without · the motherland, painful 
and difficult to leave behind 
friends unprotected by world 
fame from a vengeful adminis­
tration. 
"Only the belief we shall 
return makes it possible to bear 
this pain." 
Mrs. Solzhenitsyn said she 
does not know when she shall 
return, "but we shall come 
back and we shall raise our 
children as Russians. Therefore 
we are not saying goodby to anyone."
She denounced those who had "treacherously" driven her husband out of the country and said they had failed to silence him or cut his spiritual ties 
with Russia. 
The wife of the Nobel prize winning author said she was sure she would return because she has seen that the " living breath and memory" have begun to return to Russia. She said she also was enouraged by a compassion resurfacing among Russian people for those "haunted, pursued and unjustly tried." 
"We see a miracle taking place before our eyes. The belief which has been sland­ered, spat upon and trampled has not died in Russia but with each new day, with increasing strength, it attracts more and more souls," she said. 
Solzhenitsyn recently bought a home in Zurich. 
starts tomorrow 

MISHAWAKA AVINUI AT JOTH 
3 ACADEMY NONUNATIONS Best Actor-Jack Nicholson Best Supporting Actor -Randy Quaid Best Screen Play 

I 

f I-w NO 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty ND+SMC Staff 
$ po 

THE HOMECOMING 
Harold Pinter's disturbing, bizarre comedy Mar. 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 at 8:30pm Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
Saint Mary's College Summer '74 Mini-sessions beginning May 16 Courses offered in 
Art Mathematics Biology Music Business Administration Philosophy and Economics Political Science 
Education Psychology English Religious Studies History Sociology Italian Soeech and Drama Journalism (June 10 -August 3) 
Summer in Rome June 23 -August 2 Study Tour: Great Britain and Ireland May 20 -June 20 For further information contact: Coordinator of Summer Programs, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Room 129 LeMans Hall, 
. Telephone: 284-5339 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE Logan volunteers Sat Rec. this 

week, followed by camping 1971'/2 Toy a to Celica ST, 4 trip. For more info contact Jay speed, tachometer, vinyl top, 288-9756. steel belted radials, excellent 
BIKE-A-THON FOR LOGANcondition to 30 mpg. $1995. Call CENTER: All interested in 

232-3841. 
helping organize campus drive please come to 20 LaFortuneTandberg 90000X tape deck, $525; Bose 901 speakers with 

Thursdav 7 pm. 

stands, $450; All practically WANTED new. 272-8782. Need someone to board
'68 Pontiac GTO, air Labrador for 3 weeks. Will
conditioning , power steering pay. Friendly obediant
'

and brakes, rear defrost. Call 
animal. Call Ken 1628.

272-9198. Need 2 housemates 74. Located 
Pioneer 626 
receiver in ex. block form Linebacker. Have cellent condition call Jim 1487. 
toknowApril1. Tom Ryan 233· 2712 or 222-6706.

Advent 201 cassette deck, 10 
months old, excellent con. Need ride to upstate NY April 4 dition, $225. Call 8436. or 5 . 233-5302. 
Stereos for sale, receivers, Need ride west on 1-80 to Moline 
turntables, tapedecks, most Ill. this weekend. Call 5134. brands available. 25 per cent off. CaII 8782, 8436, 8437. Need ride to DC or nearby for 
Easter. Will share ! ! . Call Just in from Santa fe: Hand. Andy 1725. made Indian turquoise jeweldry. A wide slection of 
Need riders to Madison Wis. bracelets, rings earrings, April 5. Call 3251. necklaces, etc. All reasonabvly priced and of the 
PERSONALS highest quality. drop in 10 
Dear Sakaley,Lyons or ca II 7833. 

They also serve who only sit Factory wired all solid state and wait. Get out your pen! Dynaco stereo preamplifier A loving admirer. 
(pat-4) and amplifier (120) 
Art,

used 1 112 years. replacement 
Happy Day! 

Love, Phone 7046. 
cost $400. dicker at $225. 
Mom. 

Koss headphones and extension Happy BirthdayDad! no 
fooling.

$25. Call 1480. 
GBR. Brandnew piping hot 
Dear "Dash",

Texasburger, served on a giant Wishing you a happy birthday.
5" bun. Accessories include, 
GIRLS! The Windiammer wants you 

The Windjammer has now opened its doors to women as well as men. Four expert stylists are ready to serve you, complete with the full line of R K products. All services by appt. Call Now! 
Uhe WirWjammer 
1637 Lincoln Way W. 232·6622 
tomato, lettuce and special 
Nick and Nora Charles.

zesty sauce. Priced at only 69 cents. Inquire at Mr. Quick on KATHY-State Route 23. It's the hand on the knee that gives it away.
Portable Panasonic AmFm jr. stereo. Call 5754. 
Asyou pass into another time NOTICES warp, Happy Birthday, Cap. tain Kirk. Graduation Special: May 17-The Klingons
24. Nassau Bahamas, $200. Includes Departure NO, to Grabs, airport, flight, (open bar) and 
Welcome back to du lac. Good hotel. Call 288-6182. luck at tryout. Be noisy and athletic! Pitt Club Easter Bus signups Bea, Becky, Mary, Marlene. 
Sunday 7-7:30 LaFortune 
Happy Birthday to the WopAmphitheatre. Questions call Moocher. from the flyingHJohn 1786. 

oterodact~l. 

Sweet young Irish lass desires make Easter outing plans. 
NO Backpackers: Time to small, hairy, pygmy for meaningful relationship. Call . Sunday lC LaF~rtun!! .7,pm., • · · ·Marla .a27. 
--~--~­

--------~---~-~ 
8 the observer Thursday, March 21, 1974 
N.C. State is number one; Irish finish in fifth position 
Number five is the final stop for No. 1 team in America. poll comprised of a nationwide the Irish basketball team this year. The Irish, sporting the second panel of sports writers and . With the final Associated Press best record, 26-3, slipped to fifth broadcasters. poll released yesterday, North position after their unexpected loss The N.C. State Wolfpack was Carolina State, winner of the to Michigan in the Mideast named No. 1on all47 ballots for 940 National Collegiate Athletic Regional playoffs. The Wolverines points. Eliminated in the semifinal Association basketball tour-finished with a record of 22-5 and round by State, defending national nament, was officially crowned the the number six ranking in the AP champion UCLA took second place­
Greg Corgan~===================:=:=:=:=====:============================================================================: 
distancing Marquette which finished No. 3 with 694. Maryland was fourth with 591, Notre Dame had 508, and Michigan 
The Irish Eye 
402. Kansas and Providence, both knocked off in the NCAA playoff I 1 held the next two spots. Indiana, =======================================================================:===:=:=:=:=:=:======1:t s on y a game which won the Collegiate Com­
The other day a letter arriw,d at The Observer sports department. missioner's Tournament (runner­Enclosed was the following note: up) used its victory to move up two Dear Sir: notches from a tie for nth place By virtue of their appearance in the NCAA finals, Marquette, seen here 
This is the kind of junk they write about Notre Dame·. I, along with last week to No. 9. Long Bead• in the process of losing to the Irish, climbed to No.3 in the final AP poll. others down South, do not like it. Please repr·int this article so other State completed the listing of the. Purdue, which captured the NIT, 1. N.C. state (47) ..........:.1-1 tHO people can see how they dislike the Irish so much. top ten teams. rode that victory to nth place in 2. UCLA ................26-4 832 Thank You. the final poll, a healthy jump from · Marquette .... ·· .. · .. ·...26-5 694
3 

4. Maryland ................23·5 591With it was the mentioned column by Eddie Menton of the Mobile last week's tie for 18th pace.I The 5. Notre Dame ............ 26-3 508
Globetrotters

Register dated March 16, 1974: Boilermakers just topped No. 12 &. Michigan ................ 22·5 402 North Carolina in one of the poll's 7· Kansas· ............. ·...23-7 345
8. Providence . .. .. ........ 21!-4 :W5at Notre Dame tightest battles. The Tar Heels had t. Indiana ........... : ...23·5 mHad lt Coming :>een lOth a week ago. 10. Long Beach State .....23·2 2i9 
h. h I h NIT f l 11. Purdue .................21-9 245 

It's almost hard to believe excitement.. After all, two of next week Utah, w IC ost t e ma 12. North Carolina .. . .22·6 22S they had to pay the price so America's most traditional 
game to Purdue, was No. 15 behind u. Vanderbilt. ..... -· .. · ..23-5 1:>3 Vanderbilt and Alabama. 14. Alabama...... .. . .. Z'H I~
soon. college football giants were 15. Utah. .. .. .. .. . . . . .. 22·8 86 The only trouble is, our meeting. Forty-eight years ago they took a Pittsburgh, which went to the 18. Pittsburgh.. . ..25-4 74 team didn't get to knock them All I could think about when basketball and a smile and toured NCAA quarter-finals before being 17. Southern Cal . · ..24-5 55 off. . , I entered Tulane Stadium was the country in a beat-up old car, dropped by North Carolina State, 18· Oral Roberts ... · · ...23·5 46
19. South Carolina . ,...22·5 44

Notre Dame was eliminated Don Hutson, Knute Rockne, often wondering where their next finished 16th and Southern 20. Dayton .. ... . .. ... .. .26-9 39 from the NCAA basketball . The Gipper, Dixie Howell and meal would come from. The C l.f · be t b I d" f Others receiving votes, listed alpha-
a 1 orma, a en Y n lana or betically: Arizona State. Boston Col·championships in the state of the Four Horsemen. It made fabulous Harlem Globetrotters are 

the title in the Commissioner's lege, Bradley, centenary, Creighton,Alabama. Not only in the me wonder if they knew what still traveling, but they no longer Tournament, was No. 17. The last Florida State, Jacksonville, Louisville. state,~ but at the University of was going on. worry about that next meal. The Maryland-Eastern Shore, Memphis
three s1ots were held d own bY0reI State, New Mexico. San Francisco,

Alabama's Memorial Calise-Stalking about watching the world's greatest family en­Roberts, South Carolina and Southern IUinols. 
urn. pre-game workouts was one of 
tertainment, the Harlem 
Dayton in that order.


·Michigan was the team that football's most known figures. 
Globetrotters, comes to Notre had the honors. But· it's not Paul W. Bryant Sr. -a man Dame's Athletic and Convocationunrealistic to think Alabama's who had a vital role in build­Center for one night only onfootball players formed a ing Alabama's tradition. Both Friday, April 5, 1974 at 8:00p.m.
Michigan cheering section. · long ago and today. 
As usual, an all-new all-starThe Irish had illusions of a·. Being a native Alabamian I variety show will be presenteddouble championship . around was, quite naturally, one of during halftime of the Globetrotter New . Year's Day. But that the Crimson's biggest fans. on game. Globetrotters '74 willdream was spoiled in; of all that' wet December night. 
feature the hilarious basketballplaces, Alabama. . It was exciting enough just 
Notre Dame won the football to be a witness to the game. antics of Trotter Crown Prince championship by getting lucky Even though I wasn't covering Meadlowlark Lemon. Also in the and beating a · much better the game, just writing a rea­Trotter starting lineup will be Alabama football team. That ture story, it was all the more dribbling star Freddy "Curly" was in the state of Louisiana, exciting to be playing a small Neal, "Jumpin' Jackie Jackson, which . had no part in the role. Bobby Joe Mason and big Frank 
Irish's loss. Chief Photographer Aaron Stephens.The night was Monday, the . Tesney and I drove back tr' 
The Globetrotters have now 
last day of December in 1973. Mobile right after the ga~. 
traveled more than eight million It was a cold, rainy night in Believe me, it was a long, long miles, while entertaining more a city right smack .in ,the mid-trip following Alabama's nar­than 70 million people in 94 foreigndle of a bunch of crawfish. row defeat to the Irish. 
countries and regions. WhereNew Orleans, the kind of town Notre Dame caused much transportation was once an old you like to go into but you love sickness throughout our state Dodge that threatened to breakit more when you leave, was at the first of the year. So it down each night, the Globetrotters 
the host. seems fitting and proper that today travel by airplane andThe game was the Sugar they received their "just .re­
custom-built tour bus. The
Bowl. I was so caught up .in ward" in our state. the excitment of my first Sug-Anyway, UCLA is going to Globetrotters have come a long ar Bowl, that I hardly knew win the National Champion­way since those first few seasons what was happening. ship in basketball again this nearly half a century ago. For 
The gam" warranted all the year. instance, there was the night in the small town of Minnesota when the 
To say Mr. Menton's column, so cleverly entitled "Had it Coming," was Globetrotter share of the gate an innane, irresponsible, childish piece of two-bit journalism would receipts amounted to $14.74. simply be a waste of words. Hardly enough to feed the players 
It can't even be called journalism. Notre Dame's southern friend aptly and fueld the car. Even in 1933. laheled it "junk." Forty years later, the Trotters 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
100 Center 
~E T,EA~ 
BANANA 
CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES Largest selection of 
FRYE BOOTS 

The fact of the matter is that the Mobile Register is supposedly a play to sell-out family audiences professional newspaper. Professional journalism is supposedly ob­nearly every night. 
II••••• 
jective. But to quote a qualified colleague, "Is Eddie Menton a 
cheerleader or a sports writer? This can be hardly be called journalism. 
I would demand better of a high school newspaper. I would expect better 
of a grade school paper." 

And anybody, except Eddie Menton perhaps, can see why. 
His first three paragraphs are priceless. In the second he says, "The only trouble is, our team didn't get to knock them off." Does the Mobile Register have a basketball team? They'd probably be on academic probation anyway. 
The clincher however, comes when Menton says, "Notre Dame won the football championship br 1 getting lucky and beating a much better Alabama football team.' It would be quite easy to cite statistics, op­ponents, matchups and various other means of comparison, but that would just be stooping down to Menton's level. That would be degrading. Besides that Menton himself shows just how professional and objective he can be at a big sports event when he says, "I was so caught up in the excitement of my first Sugar Bowl, that I hardly knew what was hap­
-pening." Obviously he possesses a keen journalistic talent. The sad part about the whole thing is that ignorantly biased people like Eddie Menton are in a position to voice their opinions. It tends to give the Mobile area, if not the entire South, a bad name. This is indeed an injustice because while the basketball team was in Tuscaloosa they were treated royally. Members of the team and those who traveled with them had nothing but high praise for the consideration they received while at the University of Alabama. Apparently those people are intelligent enough to realize it's only a game. Eddie Menton thinks it's a war. 
The American Character Series 

Tom Noel 
as MARK TWAIN AT HOME 
Stnlay, March31st W~gtonHaD-SOOpn Admissi>.t1-$.1.00 Dance& Drama Patrms Free 





