OD The IDslde 
Astronauts 
••• page 2 
Ruckelshaus 
.•• page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 116 Monday, April 29, 1974 

Major shakeup? 
Faccenda refuses comment 
By Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief 
Dr. Phillip Faccenda, Vice-President of Stud~nt Affairs, issued a "no comment" Friday to reports that he will resign from his position at the com­pletion of this school year. . 
His resignation, purported to be part of a maJor shakeup in Student Affairs, appears to be awaiting acceptance by the Board of Trustees at their May 10 meeting. 
Brother Just Paczescy, presently Rector of Alumni Hall, is believed to be succeeding Faccenda as V-P of Student Affairs according to informed sources. 
However, when contacted, Paczescy stated that he was unaware of any such appointment. 
In other changes, Kathleen Cekanski will be replaced as Rector of Breen Phillips. Issueing a statementlast night she stated, "I will not be the Rector of Breen-Phillips Hall next year, but I will have anotl}_er job which I am not free to discuss at this time." 
Current Director of Off-Campus Residence, Rev. James Shilts, will be stepping down from his position to assume the assistant directorship of Moreau Seminary. 

Shilts confirmed this appointment last Friday. The changes add to the already vacant position of Associate Vice-President made available by Fr. James Flanagan with his appointment as chairman of the Art Department. Dr. Faccenda accepted the position of vice­president in March Last year after temporarily maintaining the office since the spring of 1972. In addition to his work in Student Affairs, Fac­cenda had also retgained his position of senior counsel to the university. His status in this regard has also been left unannounced. Faccenda, an attorney by profession and for­merly a partner in a LaSalle Street law firm in Chicago, is a 1952 graduate of Notre Dame in mechanical engineering. A 1957 Loyola University of Chicago law graduate, he first came to Notre Dame in 1967 as a special assistant to the president. He was recently appointed to head of the South Bend Crime Commission. 
1 
1 
1 
1 
~ 
1 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 

In an April 25 letter to the Planning and Policy Committee of the Student Life Council, the Hall Presidents Council has called for the elimination of parietal regulations on campus. 
The HPC proposes a two-point plan to replace the current parietal regulations: (1) individual halls would set quiet-hours at which time unwanted guests would not be allowed in the hall, and ~2) individual halls or units within a hall could establlsh their own parietal hours. 
The HPC offers it suggestions at a time when the Planning and Policy Committee of the SLC is reexamining the purpose of parietal hours. The HPC wrote its letter after each hall president discussed the proposal with their hall councils. 
"The main purpose of the letter is to tell the SLC committee that we're watching their work and we're concerned that they act on the parietal sisues," said HPC chairman Bob Howl. 
"We hope that it gives them more incentive to deal with the issue and not to let it sit on the table," Howl said. 
Parietals: 'difficult issue' 
Howl admitted that parietals is a difficult issue wth many interests involved. However, he said that the HPC felt a responsibility to represent the students' interests. 
Student body Vice President Frank Flanagan is also a member of the Planning and Policy Com­mittee until his term as SLC representative from the Flanner-Grace district expires at the end of this semester. 
"The committee is not ready yet to actually consider proposals such as the HPC's," Flanagan· said. 
Flanagan said that up to this time, the committee 
has been researching the history of parietals 
policy in an effort to evaluate the validity of the 
current regulations. 
Before the end of this semester, the committee 
will administer a questionnaire to about 1,000 
students in order to get the students' real feelings 
about parietal hours. 
Flanagan predicted that by the beginning of next 
semester the committee might be ready to report 
to the SLC. Any change in the current parietal 
regulations would not take place until that time. 
"This committee is not necessarily geared toward 
chaninging parietal hours," Flanagan said, "but 
towardanalyzingthe hours as they now stand. If we 
find that the presenthoursare not working, then of 
course they must be changed." . 
Howl admits that it is perhaps unlikely that the 
SLC will completely accept the HPC proposal and 
eliminate all parietal regulations in the halls. 

Howl suggests that a functional compromise onthe issue would be for the SLC to leave parietal hours as they are on weekdays but lift the ours on weekends. 
************************** 
The text 
of the HPC letter 
Dear Committee Member, 

It is the understanding of the Hall President's Council that the planning and policy committee of the S.L.C. has spent several months deliberating on the parietals issue. Presently the issue remains cloudy in the minds of many students. Through our interaction with the residents in our halls, the general sentiment is that the question has been debated long enough. In all fairness to the students we feel that some action should be taken to clarify the purpose and justification of parietals. The seriousness of this matter demands immediate action on the part of your committee and the S.L.C. 
The students were promised a review of parietals, and as of now none has been forthcoming. We feel that it is your obligation to consider the proposals that have been formulated by the Hall President's council and are supported by constituants in the individual halls. The students feel the following proposals are viable alternatives to the existing rules. 
1. No parietal regulations on campus 
a. 
establish quiet hours in each hall 

b. 
students who are not guests in the hall during quiet hours will be removed witout penalty 

c. 
any trespassers who are unwanted by all persons involved can be removed by securty 


2. If parietals are desired within specific halls, floors, or sections, they may be set up according to the existing regulations. 
We thank you for your time and would appreciate action along these lines. 
Hall President's Council 



HPC asks no parietals 
Monday, April 29, 1974
the observer 

warld briefs 

JOHANNESBURG UPI++If the new regime in Portugal slows down or halts military efforts to hold onto Mozambique and Angola against black nationalists, neighboring South Africa and Rhodesia may be exposed to the full onslaught ot black insurgency. LIMA UPI++Government officials and engineers Sunday inspected a 15mile long ar­tifical lake in a steep Andean canyon, created overnight by disastrous landslides across the Mantario River about 125 miles outside Lima. TOKYO++A North Vietnamese newspaper says President Nixon's policy of easing relations with the Soviets and China is a "lie,", and htat the United States remains the enemy of Socialist countries. GENEVA UPI++I Secretary of State Henry A. Kissingermet Soviet Foregin Minister Andrei A. Gromyko Sunday night to discuss Soviet-American relations and try to forestall any Russian sabotage of Americanatte~ptsto get a military disengagement between Israel and Syria. 
12:00-9:00 p.m.--art show, student-faculty show-­all media, upstairs moreau gallery, 1:00-4:00 p.m.--art show, paintings of e. slenker, isis gallery, 
2:00 p.m.--art show, "clowns of flre,"--all mediums, o'shag gallery, 
4:00 p.m.--senior fellow, william ruckelshaus, lib. aud., 
7:00 & 9:00 p.m.--foreign film series, "iklru" (to live), sponsored by college of arts and letters, eng. aud., 
8:00 p.m.--amer. character sieries, edgar lee masters' "spoon river anthology," by alpha omega players, washington hall, $1, 
8:30 p.m.--lecture, "poetics and evaluation," by rene wellek, sponsored by depts. of modern language and english, lib aud., 
8:15 p.m., lecture, "an evening with richard back," author of "jonathan livingston seagull," northside hall aud. iusb • 
an campus today 
Note: Any on campus announcements for Wednesday, Thursday or Friday should be into The Observer office by ..Tuesday, 3:00 p.m. 
RESERVATIONS
:r: 
284-4176
I-




w NO 
Student • Faculty
SMC 
ND·SMC Staff 
$200

THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 

John Gay's ribald musical romp ·Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. 
_j

O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
,_________ 

Astronauts speak at ACC 
by Mark A. Miller AStaff Reporter 

Astronauts Frank Borman, Charles Conrad Jr., Dr. Joseph Kerwin and James McDivitt discussed what it's like to travel in space and set foot on the moon during an engineering symposium last Friday. The astronauts gave individual presentations and an­swered questions before a 1,000 
persons in the ACC arena. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh C.S.C, in his introduction asked the astronauts whether this new perspective of man in space gives rise to new insightsinto human life on ·earth, adding that the mystical and philosophical aspects of the voyages are every bit as exciting as the technological achievements. 
In the response to this approach 
towards  space  travel  the  
astronauts  made  the  following  
points.  

The new perspective of man in space, from the moon, compels in! to view the earth as a spacecraft with a finite environment, where we must "subvert all individual goals for the good of all." 
Nationalboundaries and political conflicts tend towards in­significance when viewed from afar. Conrad was orbiting the earth during the Indian-Pakistan conflict. 
"It is not the· smallness of the earth, but the intimacy of it which becomes most important," men living and continually interacting with one another. 
The space program showed how significant man is in his in­telligence, motivation and capability in accomplishing feats and solving the world's problems. 
Having the experience of traveling in space does not necessarily give an astronaut new insights into human existence. 
Conrad emphasized the positive aspects of the United States and Russian joint space venture. According to Conrad little will be given to the Russians, for con­ceivably they could construct a Saturn rocket with manuals already available. 
The Thomas A. Dooley Foundation 
• W k" I
1s or mg•••• 

in Cambodia, in Laos, in Nepal, in the hearts of millions. 

for informationj 
on how you can help: Write ,P.O. Box 1195 South Bend, Ind. 

The big advantasge of the U.S. over the Russians, said the astronaut, is our management ability. In a free enterprise system there is less red tape and men, money and ideas can move through the system much more quickly and efficiently. 
Conrad stressed that he liked the venture, for it y.rill be one of the few times that th,e Russians outside of government officials, will ne able to see American democracy and free interchange of information. 
Kerwin contended that developments generated by the space program are .being quietly phased into our everyday lives. Many developments in com­munications, computers, steel and weather monitoring are being made possible through the space effort. 
McDivitt commented that each spacecraft is made of many small parts, and through out industry these parts are being utilized to better our everyday life. 
The astronauts said that although the true significance of man's extension to the moon won't be known for a long time, it did provide insights into the spiritual realization of how valuable life on Earth is. 
The space program is down but not out, according to Conrad, predicting the eventual renewal of space travel. "We'll be off to Mars and Venus." 
Conrad recalled the time he was a test pilot, telling his wife about some "crazy project" where some "idiots" were goikng to be sent into space. After going to Washington 
D.C. for a seer~ briefing on the project, he decfded to ''eat his words and volunteer," yet he was 
believes that space pragram developments are becoming part of our everyday 
lives. (photo by Ed Brower) 
rejected from the Mercury program. Psychologists claimed he was unadaptable for long space flights, though he now comes close to holding the record, having logged 1,700 hours of space travel. 
McDivitt commented that unlike Conrad who became a Na.Jy aviator because he loved to fly he joined the Air Force to escape' the Army's draft. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students ot the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. Second clas~ 
. postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
'46556. 
Seniors!! 
!Your Senior Class Fellow 
William D. Ruckelshaus . 
will be on campus: 
Monday, April 29 
4:00 pm Lib. Aud. 
Tuesday, April 30 
10:00 am Lib Lounge 
Monday, April 29, 1974 
the observer 

Second questionnaire set passed out 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 

Mrs. Clover Gowing of the University Infirmary has an­nounced that a second wave of questionnaires concerning the Infirmary was sent to 600 students last week. 
The first questionnaires were sent to 978 randomly selected students two weeks ago. Gowing said that the 36 per cent rate-of­return was slowerthananticipated, thus requiring a second set of questionnaires to be sent to those who have not yet responded. 
"The Infirmary will carefully consider the criticisms indicated by the students," said Gowing. "We do plan to make changes which will reflect the needs of the students." 
The survey is being conducted by Gowing at the request of the University, but it will also serve as part of her master's degree thesis on health education for San Diego State University. 
Results of the survey will be 

Rathburn elected to nat'l AAUP 
Dr. Paul A. Rathburn of the 

Notre Dame English Department 
has recently been elected to the 
National Council of the American 
Association of University 
Professors. 
The Council is the national 

governing body of the 90,000­
member organization of university 
and college professors. 
As one of the 33 elected members 
of the Council, Rathburn will 
represent state conferences and 
local AAUP chapters in Indiana, 
Kentucky and Ohio. 
Rathburn is the first Notre Dame 
professor to be so honored. 
Poetics lecture set for today 
A special lecture entitled 

"poetics and. Interpretation" will 
be delivered today by Rene Wellek, 
Sterling professor Emeritus of 
Comparative Literature at Yale 
University, at 8:30 pm in the 
Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Wellek's lecture is jointly 
sponsored by the Department of 
English and the Department of 
Modern and Classical Languages. 
Everyone is invited to attend free 
of charge. 
Following the lecture, a 

reception in Wellek's honor will be 
held at 10 pm in the University 
Faculty Club, where he will neet 
informally with faculty and 
students. 
Wellen's first visit to the Notre 
Dame campus-will also con­
tinue through part of 
tomorrow. April 30. 
EMERY AIR 


FREIGHT 
Makes going home easy!!! 
1. 
Pick up at your dorm 

2. 
Deliver at your home ,-anywhere in the free world 


for details call: 

233-3127 

presented to the Office of Student Affairs and perhaps from that office to the Board of Trustees. They will also be printed in the Observer in the fall. 
The questionnaires ask certain statistical information, such as the students' name, address, age, grade, sex, etc. They also request the students' attitudes toward the Infirmary, how often they have used the facilities, what was their previous medical care at home, and what is the extent of their medical education. 
Gowing stressed the strict 
confidentiality of all information. 
"I don't want the specific responses we have so far received to be printed because that would influence other comments," she explained. "Let me just say that the students have some strong opinions regarding various aspects of the health service." 
Gowing pointed out that the Infirmary is availabe to all people enrolled in the University, in­cluding off-campus students, the faculty and their wives. Operated by two full time physicians and a permanent nursing staff, the Infirmary is open 24 hours a day. Off-campus students must pay an $8 fee to stay overnight, because they have not paid a room fee to the University. If anyone is in need of transportation, Security will provide it. 
In the interest of the best possible 
Warm Weather means 



COLD DRAFT 
at 
Nickie's 

New summer hours will be 9 p.m. to closing Don't forget your Nickie's T-shirt on $2.50 

health servvice, Gowing urges comments are encouraged. They 
..
those who have not returned their may be addressed to: questionnaires to do so before May Infirmary s·urvey 
7. If students who were not chosen Office of Student Affairs in the random sample wish to 315 Administration Buildingcontribute to the Notre Ind. ., . 
c 
-A 
M 
p 
U' 
s 
v 
I 
E 
w 
NOW RENTING  
one and two bedroom  .· \  
furnished apartments  l  
Featuring:  
+ SWIMMING POOL  
+ COMMUNITY BUILDING  
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM  

APARTMENTS 

+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 

+ 
REFRIGERATOR 


+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT 


+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND .. 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south be · · 

THE THUMB IS THREATENED. 
Student-Railpass. Just about the cheapest way to see Europe outside of hitching. Unlimited second-class rail travel in 13 countries. Two months only $165. 
You buy your Student-Railpass here­you can't buy it in Europe. And the $165. price is tax free and a beautiful way to beat currency fluctuations. What's more, train 
schedules are as frequent as ever, while getting about by car or motor coach isn't always as easy as before. Who's eligible? Any full-time student under 26 years of age registered in a North American school, college or university. You spend two whole months seeing practically the whole of Europe. And you travel in comfort. On trains so clean and so fast (up to 100 mph) you wouldn't believe it. Of course, you can also take our cozy little trains that meander through our remote countryside-that's part of the privilege, too. It can mean the Summer trip of your life, so don't wait. See your friendly Travel Agent or clip the coupon and we'll send you all the facts. See if you don't agree. The day of the thumb may be OVer. Fares subject to change. 
r------------------­
192-31-A

1 £urailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, I1 France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, 1I Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. I 
Eurailpass, Box 90, Bohemia, New York 11716 I Please send me your free Student-Rail pass folder. 0 I I Or your free £urailpass folder with railroad map. 0 I 
I I
I Name 1 I Street I I ~~ I 
I I
1 State ZiP--~ 1 
~------------------~ 
STUDENT·RAILPASS 
It shows you Europe as the Europeans see it. 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENOENTSTUOENTNEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661, NEWS: 2~-1715 ·,BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief AnnMcCarry Marlene Zloza 
Editorial Editor Managing Editor 
LeeGentine Terry Keeney John Kloos Business Manager News Editor Advertising Manager 
April 29, 1974 

A Right to Know 
Once again, the University has proven its lack of respect for the community's right to know. One should not be sur­prised. It has almost become traditional University policy that important decisions be withheld from the students and many members of the faculty until which time it has become too late to allow any viable response. 
The list of examples of this kind of timing is too long. Among these events are the announcements of girl's dorms, the Academic Calendar proposals, and now the major shake-up in the Student Affairs Office. 
It has been reported, for example, that Dr. Faccenda is planning to resign his post as Vice-President of StudentAffairs. 
When asked about this, he replied, "No Comment." The report of Dr. Fac­cenda's resignation is accompanied by a report that Br. Just Paczesny, currently the Rector of Alumni Hall, will replace him. 
-Further unverified reports are cir­
culating about the hall staffs. Some 
rectors are being replaced. Otehrs await 
notification. All involved parties, as if 
prompted by the example of the Ad­
ministration, refuse to comment 
definitively. The current rector of Lyons 
is not slated to be employed by the 
University next year in any capacity. 
The replacement of Br. Just is up in the 
air, also. 
All these examples lead to speculation, making more out of the situations than actually exists. 
In all of these cases, regardless of whether the decision has been made or not, no announcement or statement is available. 
Purportedly, the University is waiting to make the announcements of the decisions until after the Board of Trustees meeting of May lOth, at which time they will be made official. One question which can be raised is why the meeting was scheduled so late in the semester, when most of the members of the community will be engaged in final exams and graduation procedures, and all of the campus media will have ceased operation. Is this another example of poor University timing? 
We realize that the University cannot disclose all of the information, yet they have a responsibility to give the students some sort of confirmation to dispel the large number of rumors and reports circulating. They also have a respon­sibility to protect the names and reputations of those . parties directly involved. It is a disservice to the com­munity to allow these half-truths to go further. 
We should be given the news. We have a right to know. 
The Editorial Board 


•

To the sen1ors 
fr. bill taahey_ 
Wanted to say farewell ...and a few other things ...as our four years together come to a close. 
We came to the campus about the same time, that September of 1970; most of you for the first time, I for the fifth time, after eight years away, principally in Washington, D.C., where I taught and served as a prison chaplain. 
We probably shared considerable apprehension at the prospect of coming to N.D. I know I did; I didn't know what to anticipate when I agreed to enter campus ministry (although some of my crazy friends assured me my prison experience would afford me the best possible preparation for N.D.) 
I look bake over these past four years, as I'm sure you do, and it seems a lot has happened to us: memories of Ausitn Carr, Kent State, Ti Grace Atkinson, Krashna-Barkett;-Kersten, Cambodia, Norman Mailer, the Peace Mass in the ACC, Ted Kennedy, Sugar Bowl, UCLA, etc., etc. But mostly it's the people: they're the ones who've made these four years. 
I remember saying to some of your parents during Freshmen Orientation that they were mistaken if they thought we were going to pledge we would preserver your faith during your four years here. I tried to suggest that would be to promise far too little; for faith can only come as a response to experiencing God's love (in all its manifestations); and no freshman can have had enough of that to achieve the ultimate destiny of full, mature commitment. I added that what I hoped would happen was not that your relationship with God would be held in check, but, rather, that your four years would be filled with human experiences that encourage, inspire, mature, and redeem. As a result, I explained, you'd be more faithful than when you arrived. 
When I look at the class of '74, I see what you see: a fantastic variety of "stories," each unique, each revcealing an answer to that most basic question: "When you get out of N.D., what are you going to be? What sort of person will you have become?" One notices a tremendous variation in growth: from the idealistic, highly-motivated, socially­conscious to the self-centered, insensitive, shallow. 
None of this should surprise us; and it would be folly to write off those who have not develoed as well as others. If that had happened in my day, I'd have been long gone. Maybe that's why I resontate so strongly with those who give little sign of being a Ralph Nader or Tom Dooley; who seem not yet to have been endowed with many Christian values. 
Little wonder I identify; all I have to do is look back on myself as a 
N.D. senior. I guess what I'm trying tosay is: If I've wanted to walk along with you, it's becaue I've walked your way before. If I've bugged you some, tried to confront you and challenge you, it's partly becaue I wish so much it had happened more to me during my undergrad years. 
A while back, during a special meeting on campus ministry at N.D., someone claimed our operation needed more carefully-organized· programs; he though we wasted too much of our time on what he called 'a random walk." Sorry, but there's a lot more to campus ministry than structued programs and orchestrated events, as proper as these may be. After all, Jesus was on a "random walk" during much of his ministry; when he encountered the men on the way to Emmaus, for instance, he met them where they were, and responded to their particular needs the best he could. No one who works with students need apologize for trying, in some small way, to do the same. 
I know that's what I'd like to leave you with in this final column. I've wanted to meet you on your walk these past four years. I haven't always done it very well (my chief regret is I've not known all of you, and many of you not nearly well enough); but there have been times .. . in a hall, locker room, the library (either one), a liturgy, on a campus path...when good things have happened. I would hope we could be grateful for them together. 
It's really hard to say goodbye; to do it the right way. I just hope you continue to walk--as true to yourself as possible, your best self. I hope your walk doesn't lead you to those positions where you become sucked into a system that assures the preservation of the unequal distribution of the goods and resources of the world, that bears responsibility for the oppression suffered by so many, On the contray, I hope your walk takes you to a future with far greater riches. 
May you experience love, joy, justice, compassion, and peace--and maybe you share them with those you meet along the way! 
-the obse.rver;;.....__________ 
Editor-in-Chief: Tom Drape Managing Editor: Marlene Zloza News Editor: Terry Keeney Editorial Edito : Ann 
Features Ed SMC Editor Copy Edito Sports Ed 
Exiting New N Copy Layout: J Day Editors: Jim ·r;~~~•1kifHtifl 
Typists: Karen Hinks, Camille Arrleh, Howard Halle, Jane 
Coyle Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Pictures: Albert 
Night Controller: Howard Halle 
Sports: Vic Dorr, Bill Delaney 
Late Night Company: Marla, Bill, Chris, Pat 
Fading Reporter and Phantom Shortstop: "Scoop" Drape 
Hi Mom and WBA 
_j 
~---~----~~-­

--
---~--------~---
Mondlly, April 29, 1974 
the observer 
a musical romp with beggars 
by susan davis 
The Beggar's Opera opened this weekend at SMC'sO'LaughlinAuditorium to conclude the ND-8MC Theatre season this year. Directed by Dr. Frederic Syburg, it is a well-done "musical romp" with only a few exceptions. 
When John Gay first presented The Beggar's Opera in 1728, the London audiences were so thrilled that the play enjoyed a record-breaking run of 62 per­formances. This phenomenal success was partly due to the play's satirizing traditional Italian opera, which Londoners considered too formal and stylized, by employing familiar English ballad tunes with new understandable and amusing lyrics. Rather then presenting songs which stopped the action and only displayed the singer's talents, Gay's innovation included the songs to further carry the action. 
Also contributing to the success were the obvious political overtones against Prime Minister Robert Walpole, most of which are lost on a modern American audience. The thieves and pickpockets imitate the man­ners and attitudes of the English Court members in so much of what they do that one beggar comments, "Through the whole piece, you may observe such a similitude of manners in high and low life, that it is dif­fecult to determine whether (in the fashionable vices) the fine gentlemen imitate the gentlemen of the road, or the gentlemen of the road the fine gentlemen." 
The plot itself is rather simple: it centers around Captain Macheath, one of the more dashing thieves, and his escapades in avoiding both the noose and un­tComfortable confrontations with the several women he has promised to marry. Ralph Bruneau portrays Macheath, and although he sings well, he tends to overdo the swaggering thief. William McGlinn turns in a stong performance, despite his weak singing, as Peachum, another thief, who has determined to turn Macheath· over to the authorities to be hanged and thereby collect the reward for his arrest. 
The problem arises because his daughter Polly (Alicia Purcell) has married Macheath; Peachum nevertheless deter­mines that he should have Macheath hanged so that his daughter will be a comfortably­fixed widow with the reward money. Lucy Lockit, daughter of the jailer and .another of the women Macheath has strung along is played by Maribeth Fencl, who contributes a lovely voice and descriptive facial ex­pressions. With her help, Macheath other thieves joined in for a rousing chorus. With few exceptions, the the prostitutes are also delightfully charming. 
Even the musicians are costumed in the period's dress under Faith Adam's direction. Set designer Richard Bergman has placed the musicians right on the stage for their refreshing tunes. Enjoy the music, because many of the songs are difficult to understand, but are bravely attempted by the actors. 
The production continues on May 2, 3, and 4 at 8:30. Plan to arrive early, for Christopher Ceraso has written a new prologue for the play. Unfortunately, much of this is lost as people are still being seated and the house lights are still on; its lengthiness also contributed somewhat to the slow start of the play. Oh, and don't be surprised if some of the beggars accost you for money as you arrive; after all, it's their 
' 

escapes, but is finally recaptured and led to be hung, with trails of women following (some with babes in arms), each claiming to be his wife. Quite a predicament, but the players give some final advice, "But think of this maxim, and put off your sorrow, The wretch of today, may be happy tomorrow." (Good advice around finals time! 
Several other portrayals were delightfully done under Syburg's direction. Kathy Burke, as the bawdy Mrs. Peachum, helped the slow-moving first act tremen­dously and Mary Walsh, as the drunk Betty Doxy, stole the show as she stumbled around on stage. Phil Courington turned in an enthusiastic song and performance as Matt of the Mint, while Jay Parks and the 

Little Bir:~ Sc:reen 
QB VII, 007 and several good-byes 

art ferranti 
As this is the last comumn, a month's programming is going to be covered since that is how far in advance ·my schedules go. Consequently, this weeks highlights will be enumerated in more depth with the coming week's films just being listed and briefly described. 
The big film this week is the television adaptation of Leon Uris's (Exodus) bestseller QB VII which means Queen's Bench Seven. Itis the most expensive and longest made-for-TV film ever produced costing $2.5 million and running tonight (at eight) and Tuesday (at seven-thirty) on ABC for three hours in the first installment and three hours, fifteen minutes in tomorrow's. A Polish doctor played by Anthony Hopkins sues for libel against a writer played by Ben Gazzara in a British Court. However the film chronicles the twenty-five years before the trial, from a Nazi prison camp to the Arabian desert. The film is touted to be a thinking man's movie. That statement's truth cannot be determined at this point but the film is, at the very least, monumental. Here are the rest of the statistics on this movie. The two other main stars are Leslie Caron and Lee Remick. Seven guuest stars include Juliet Mills, Anthony Quayle, Sir John Gielgud, Dame Edith Evans, Judy Carne, Robert Stephans, Sam Jaffe, and in his final role, the late Jack Hawkins. It was three years in the making (14 months of shooting) with 500 extras, 450 scenes, 67 interior sets, 141 natural locations spanning four countries, 1500 production personnel, 4000 different articles of clothing, 167 speaking parts, and a $70,000 courtroom set. Edward Anhalt wrote the screenplay and Tom Gries directed. The acting is superb (ten minute scenes were common because they were so good), the settings excellent, and the plot tight. Don't miss it. 
ABC's Sunday night movie is the first rerun of the James Bond classic Gold­finger with Sean Connery as the intrepid womanizing 007 and Honor Blackman as his sex interest Pussy Galore (Ian Fleming sure came up with the names! ). Here we are treated to Bond's Aston Martin DB5 replete with machine guns, tire slashers, and ejection seat, a plot to rob Fort Knox, and the now famous battle between Goldfinger's oriental hatchetman with the iron bowler, Oddjob, and the British Agent in the gold reserves of Fort Knox. It is a good fun movie with Bond at his best. The styles are somewhat dated and the whole cloak and dagger routine may seem blase, but remember, this is the character that spawned the spy genre. 
The rest of the films for the week leave much to be desired; besides, it is a good time to begin studying for exams (I don't believe I said that). Limbo tonight at eight is a dud NBC is trying to use to offset QB 
VII. Kate Jackson heads the cast of three women who wait to hear of their husbands' fates in Vietnam. The wife-at-home dramas usually play well, but they get to be old and soapy. Jackson is good but the rest of the film lacks a working cast. Leave it in limbo. 
The next two films are so similar they're ridiculous. Death Race (Wednesday on ABC at seven-thirty) recounts the comic book heroics of a downed 
fighter in WW II with a strict no nonsense military ace (Roy Thinnes) and a hotshot goof-off <Doug McClure) being stalked by your typical fanatic Nazi (Lloyd Bridges) in a tank on the desert. Guess who gets knocked off. It is diverting, but not much else. Terror on the Beach (Friday at eight on CBS) is also a rerun which has Dennis Weaver and family confronted by some deranged Dune Buggyists. The times change but the plot remains. Saturday at eight on NBC, the unpreviewed Log of the Black Pearl premieres and at seven-thirty on ABC . David Hedison and Stuart Whitman chase a mummy (Meredith Baxter) that can change itself into a killer cat. The CBS comedic are. a great deal funnier. . . 
Liza Minnelli and Charles Aznavour sing and dance in a specail tomorrow also opposite QB VII at nine on NBC. And a pilot that did not sell airs Friday at nine­thirty on CBS, "Mr. and Mrs. Cop". I think you can guess why no one bought it. 
Here are the rest of the films as I have them: For the W(!ek of May 6-12; Monday on ABC The Kremlin Letter with Richard Boone, on NBC The Underground Man, Tuesday on ABC Mr. King Streets War with John Saxon, Wednesday on ABC Killdozer-routine sci-fi machine monster against Clint Walker and Carl Betz, on NBC two sold pilots "Lucas Tanner" with David Hartmna and "In Tandem", Friday on CBS standard war fare The MacKensie Break, Saturday on NBC Giant (pt. one) with Liz Taylor, Rock·Hudson, and James Dean -a classic, and Sunday on ABC Ice Station Zebra (pt. one) with Rock Hudson, Patrick McGoohan, and Ernest Borgnine-­a good espionage-suspense film. 
For the week of May 13-19; Monday on ABC Ice Station Zebra (pt. two), on NBC Giant <pt. two), Tuesday on CBS a special "Hawaii Five-0" Godfather-type show "V for Vashon", Wednesday on NBC three unsold pilots, Saturday on NBC Clint Eastwood and Shirley MacLaine in Three Mules for Sister Sara, a run-of-the-mill Western, and Sunday on ABC Dark of the Sun soap drama with Rod Taylor and Yvette Mimieux. 
Finally, for the week of May 20-25; Monday on ABC The Executioner With George Peppard, on NBC Shootout, Wednesday on ABC a Julie Andrews and Jackie Gleason special, on NBC The Healers, and on Saturday on NBC Sidney Poitier and Rod Steiger in In the Heat of the Night, the first and best Virgil Tibbs cop movie. 
Television's Emmy Awards will be telecast May 28 on NBC. Space does not permit me to list all the mominees but I will summarize them. "The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman" garned twelve nominations, "M·A-8-H" and "Carol Burnett" ten, and "The Waltons" and "Mary Tyler Moore" nine each. 
Those who do not wish to be bored are asked to proceed no further. Since this is my last column, what follows are all my acknowledgements and a few reflections on ND--the final frontier (yes, Queens Ct., LeMans, that is .a take-off on "Star Trek"·, you may carry It through). 
First, to get the accolades out of the way. 
I cannot possibly list everyone with whom I have been honored to work with or with whom to be called friend so I will not list anyone. I would like to take the op­portunity however, to thank all The Ob­server staffs past and present including the business managers and editors for allowing me to work with them in various capacities and to write this column. s~~ial thanks to a few faculty' ad­mlmstrators, workers <particularly Mrs. Ceil Popovich, the Observer secretary, and Mr. Joe Toth, the head maintenance man for La Fortune), and to the various families out here who semi-adopted me and who have made this institution memorable and worthwhile. 
To my friends over the years both at ND and SMC I say thank you for making my four years here mean something. The Sugar Bowl, USC, and UCLA will always stick in my mind as highlight events of ND <alon_g with coeducation whihc I believe i~ working) but it is your friendship which will never fade from my memory and which I will miss greatly. Of course, thanks Mom, Dad, Rick and Chris· for the family life. 
However, it is time to leave Notre Dame and that I do without regret. I love it here but we all must move on. This fairy land (and it is) must end, and reality begin. Notre Dame will always hold a special meaning which I think this quote <which I will use in lieu of a trivia question) by Rod Serling summarizes (you know it would have to be something dealing with TVl: 
"There is a sixth dimension beyond which is known to man. It is a dimension as vast as space and as timeless as infinity. It is the middle ground between light and shadow --between man's grasp and his reach; between science and spuerstition; between the pit of his fears and the sunlight of his knowledge. This is the dimension of imagination. It is an area that might be called the twilight zone." --or Notre Dame. 
Cheers! 
Monday, April 29, 1974

the observer
6 





Ruckelshaus arrives at ND 
by Mark Zellman 

William Ruckelehaus first came fo national prominence when he became Adminstrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. His rise to that position began in 1960 when he worked for the State of Indiana as Deputy Attorney General. In that capacity he represented the Indiana State Board of Health in their legal problems and drafted the Indiana Air Pollution Control Act of 1961 which was stringent for the time. 
In 1965, he became minority counsel for the Indiana State Senate. Two years later he was elected to the Indiana House of Representatives and became the first freshman representative to be elected Majority Leader. 
In 1969, Ruckelshaus entered the Nixon Administration as Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division. While Ruckelshaus was still with the Justice Depart­ment, Nixon started his search for an administrator to take control of the newly formed Environmental Protection Agnecy. When the President released his nomination of William Rucklshaus, con­servationist organizations in­cluding the Sierra Club received the nomination well, which im­proved the credibility of the Ad­ministration's claims of priority for the environment. 
! 
Ruckelshaus took that role seriously and spearheaded a-drive to improve the environment. Under his vigorous leadership, the Environmental Protection Agency baldy confronted the problems put before it: air and water pollution, solid waste, pesticides, and ~ radiation. 
At times his advocacy role
• 
brought him into conflict with Nixon able to refuse subpoena 
By HOWARD FIELDS 

WASHINGTON (UPI) Sources high up in the House impeachment inquiry said Sun· day President Nixon apparently faces no danger of being cited for contemept of Congress if he refuses to comply with the panel's subpoena for tapes, because many members favor a different legal counterpunch. 
The sources said some of the best legal brains on the House Judiciary Committee are pro­moting the tactic of drawing "adverse inference" -a legal principle which simply means the committee may consider Nixon's refusal to supply requested evidence as proof he is guilty of the charges covered by that evidence. 

SENIOR DAY ••• 
A salute to the graduating seniors 
Mark Bloom Band 
Tuesday
No Cover Charge 12 noon to ???
All Invited BEER 
25~ 

OFF REGULAR PRICE 

other members of the Nixon Ad­ministration. when the En­vironmental Protection Agency published strict pollution stan­dards for automobiles, the auto industry protested the John Erlichman; other business men turned to presidential aide Peter Flanigan and Commerce Secretary Maurice Stans; but they were without significant success. As a result Ruckelshaus gained a reputation for being a tough bureaucratic in-fighter. 
His pressure for effective pollution control measures reached the highest levels when he argued the the President should sign the new Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 with its $24.6 billion in appropriations. Since Nixon had requested only $6 billion and regarded the congressional sum as inflationary, he vetoed the bill and took direct issue with Ruckelshaus' position. 
During Ruckelshaus tenure, the Envrionmental Protection Agency began the process of bringing to court long-time violator, U.S. Steel. One of his last major actions as head of the Environmental Protection Agnecy was his grant of a one-year extension delaying full implementation of pollution control standards for automobiles. It was one of those tough decisons that pleased no one: stringent interim standards anger:ed the auto industry and the extension angered the environmentalists. Despite the furor, Senator Edmund Muskie expressed the view that Ruckelshaus' decisons although difficult was probably the correct and realistic one. 
While he was Adminstrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Ruckelshaus built a reputation with both Republicans and Democrats for integrity and independence. President Nixon utilized that reputation in April, 1973. The Watergate affair had begun to appear throughout the Nixon Administration; one of the men struck was L. Patrick Gray, Acting Director of the FBI. When Gray resigned on April 27, 1973, because ne had destroyed evidence, Ruckelshaus filled his place. The President needed someone untainted by Watergate to mange the FBI and Ruckelshaus was that someone. 
He administered the FBI until Clarence Kelly took over in July, 1!973 While Ruckelshaus was at the FBI, he cooperated with the judge of the Ellsberg trial by disclosing a wiretap which had been on Ellsberg's phone in 1969 and 1970. For the President, Ruckelshaus had now become something of a trouble-shooter. His three month tenure at the FBI had not reduced his reputation, so he returned to what was a difficult department for the Nixon Administration, Justice. He became Deputy At­torneyGeneral, second in com­mand behind Elliot Richardson. 
During Ruckelshaus' short duration at the Justice Depart­ment the secret tapes became a burning issue in the Watergate controversy. Special Prosecutor, Archibald Cox, persisted in his pursuance of the White House tapes pertianing to Watergate despite a Presidential directive to stop. As Cox took recourse to the appeal court, Richardson resigned in protest of attempts to divert the special prosecutor. 
Alexander Haig, head of the White House staff, called the Deputy Attorney General and asked if he would fire Cox. Ruckelshaus said no and repeated the same decisive answer when Haig repeated the same question with the added request that Ruckelshaus resign after firing Cox. Ruckelshaus dismissal along with that of Cox came almost automatically. 
With the loss of Ruckelshaus, Richardson and Cox, Nixon decreased his already short supply of political capital. Outsiders felt that R'uckelshaus and his two associates in the tapes crisis were three of the most credible men in the Administration. For Richard Nixon, the loss of William Ruckelshaus has proven to be one disastrous mistake among many in the Watergate crisis. For William Ruckelshaus, strength of con­victions under pressure may yet prove to be worth more than the sufficient knowledge of the rec­titude of his actions. 
The Observer is now taking applications for· 
Assistant Advertising Manager 
This is a paid position 5 days per week 7 hours per day excellent position for spouse of student information call 7471 between 10 & 5 
Attention Engineering Students 
Applications being taken for 
Student Representative to the 
Engineering College Council 
If interested, please bring name and brief statement of purpose to Joint Engineering Council mailbox (room 22 Engineering Building) by 4:30 Wed., 
May 1 
UnitedAirLines JetFreight 
Ship Your Personal Effects Home Via 

Air Freight 

N CAMPUS RECEIVING STATION 
LOCATION: WNDU Parking lot HEN: May 10 thru May 15 OURS: 11 :00 am • 7:00 pm 
Air Freight charges will be billed to your home address 
For more info call: 232-8241 
GO IRISH! 

Is there a bowl game in your future? 
Answer:  Yes  
Where.:  Orang e  Bowl, perhaps  
If  you  decide  to  go  there,  consider  

reservations now, avoid later disap­pointment. Fly, drive or train to Miami, December 27, Board the SS FLAVIA for exciting 3-Day Cruise to Nassau. Return to Miami, 3 nights hotel, Orange Bowl Football Ticket includes. A Great 
Package. 

Write for brochure today! Limited space available. 
Robertson Travel Post Inc. 2732 Cashba Road Mountain Brook, Alabama 35223 Our 11th year of Bowl Travels 
-

--~~-­
·.a. Monday, April 29, 1974 the observer 7 
IWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHAIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIII
I Neighborhood Study Help program 
ND food services hurt picnic I EUROPE! I 
ted out, "comprising about one "We weren't looking for a
by Drew Wallach 
tenth of the student body, and we handout but would have liked a
Staff Reporter 
are doing all we can to improve break. Why couldn't a dining hall i==­


~~-=--i;~~s:~s~t~!:~rh!~fie~~~~~l
Notre Dame's image in this which is supposed to help out the community, but we received no students, help out the students?" oasses. car rentals, plane and Despite a seeming lack help in this matter." Mohrman questioned.
cooperation from the Notre Dame 
food services, the Neighborhood 
Study Help program held a picnic 
Ugliest man on campus
at Bendix Woods last Saturday, 
chosen at An Tostal ca:~i::ut~:::E trip planner
1:_= !:_=
reported Mike Mohrman, one of the organizers of the picnic. The "Ugliest Man on Campus" Mike Sazdanoff, who was voted contact your "The picnic went well," stated contest netted over $350 for "Ugliest Man on Campus", noted 
1 KLM campus representative, 1
Mohrman. "The 600 people-300 charity, revealed Bell Keen, that the students make a good kids from South Bend and 300 contest organizer. Funds from the choice. 
:: SHAWN KELLY 233-4818 = 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's event held An Tostal weekend will "I think it was an honor and a privilege and if anybody deserved
students--had a good time." be given to the Muscular ~111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 ~ 
Dystrophy drive, with some going it, it was me," said Sazdanoff. "I'd The problem, according to to Logan Center. like to thank my campaign 
Mohrman, was a lack of Keen, who organized the contest manager John Vannie." cooperation concerning food. SMC for the campus chapter of the Fr. Tom Chambers, runner-up in food services prepared a lunch for national service fraternity Alpha the contest cited the charitable 
the ST. Mary's volunteers, but Phi Omega, was pleased with the aspects of the event. Notre Dame wouldn't give its results of the drive. "I think the whole thing of trying volunteers a break on lunch. "It seemed to be a success for to raise money is excellent," said "They offered peanut butter and our first year putting it on" said Chambers. "I hope they do more jelly sandwiches for 30 cents Keen. "We expect a turnout three things like this." each," he said, "which was far times over for next year." A listing of all persons receiving more than it cost us to make them "Special thanks to those that votes in the Ugly Man contest will 
campaigned and worked at the be posted in the Huddle, the library ourselves." 
booths collecting," Keen con­basement, and the bulletin board 

FOR SALE NOTICES 
Handmade Indian Turquoise Jewelry from New Mexico. 
CHEAPEST V\AY TO Fine selection of bracelets, TRAVEL! SCOOTER Britain 
rings, watchbands, accesories. Europe $33 a week. Lambretta Call -7833 or drop by 10 Lyons. seats two. Also worldwide 
overland camping and lowest FURNITURE: Living room air fares. Trail Blazers TOLL and bedroom. Excellent FREE 800-223-5586. condition, reasonable price. Must relocate Call 272-0456. Experienced typist will do 
term papers, manuscripts. etc. Sony STR-110 AM-FM stereo Ca II 233-5332. receiver. Includes Sony TC.121 
--·--------·----­Cassette and speakers. 6 SUMMER STORAGE: months old. Excellent con­Reserve space now at Mrs. dition. Call 8728. Cooper's clean, dry, secure and reasonable. Will pick up Sony trinitron color T.V. Solid outside dorm. 272-3004. state KV-1201. Only 6 months old. Excellent condition. Call THE DOMINICANS 8728. educators, preachers, pastors, 
missionaries, counselors. A 1966 Ford Fairlane. Asking community of men praying and price $375. If interested call working together, bringing the 
Rick Pyfer 234-8052. Word ot the Gospel to the --spiritual, intellectual and
-~---------­
For Sale: Panasonic S-track social needs of the world today. tapedeck. 1 yr. old . call Gary Write to: Rev. Joseph Payne 23:!-4669 or at Observer office. O.P., 5 Hill House Avenue, 
New Haven, Conn. 06505' Panasonic SE-990 com Baggage Truck going to New bination Turntable, AM-FM Haven and Southern Con­stereo, cassette Air suspended necticuit. For information call speakers. $140 . Dave 3279. Jan 8048. 
Met Club:'65 Dodge Coronet. Good Deposits will be collected

Condition. $275. Ph. 272.-5425. 
Mon. April 29 McCandless Hall 5-7 p.m.
Sears B&W 19 inch T.V. Perfect condition $60. Ph. 272-5425. 
Tues. April 30 B·P Lounge 5-7 p.m. Wed. May 1 Morrissey Lounhe
1962 MGA 1600 Mark II. Good 5-7 p.m.
condition Make offer. Call 3648. 
Bikes, typewriters, golf clubs will not b taken unless deposits are received. For information Call Bill Kelly 234-5193. 
TAKE CHEAP TRUCK TO
WANTED NEW YORK, for the best results at the loses! prices.
HELP WANTED! OVERSEAS Deposits are now being takenJOBE -Australia, Europe, S. 
in 365 Alumni and 209 St. Ed's
America, Africa. Students all For futther information callprofessions and occupations Mikeor Bob al1248 or Frank at$700 to $3000 monthly. Ex­
8823. 

penses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free information. 
Inexpensive transatlantic
TRANS WORLD RESEARCH flights to Europe and more.
CO. Dept. F3 P.O. Box 603, Call Shawn 233-4818.
Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
D->onesbury, Ansel Adams,Wanted: 1 or 2 bedroom backpacking books. Readingapartment for married couple. 
laffs, thrill, and chills. In­Must be within walking formation toe you from Pan.
distance of I.U.S.B. Call John 
dora's Books.
282-1568. 

Gel your shoes fixed now,Need 2 or 3 housemates for before you go home at TONY'S
large house on the River. Call 
SHOE SHOP. Also, come in and
Morty 3236 or Bob 3373. 
see our newest item hand­made sandals.
People interested in buklding a gymnastics club. Call Pat FOR RENT8845. 
For Summer Rental. LargeOpening for married Grad nice house. 4 bedrooms. Fullystudent June l. Use fo 3 furnished. Utilities, wasgher­bedroom nodern house, stall dryer included. Approx. $185 aand feed for horse for 20 hrs. 
month. 234-1972.
work per week caring for horses and farm maintenance. 
House for Rent: 4 bedrooms.
Graduating Law stuednt now Newly furnished. Wall to wall 
on part-time job. 1,2,or 3 yr. 
carpeting. Close to campus·.
contract tor right person. 
Available tor summer and fall
Phone 272-3097. Manion Farm. 
ocupency. Graduate students only. Call AI Brasseur. 289-2463
DESPERATE ! ! Need 1 
before 5 p.m.

roommate for 2 bedroom Campus View Apt. Call 3300 or 
STUCK HERE FOR THE
3309. 

SUMMER? Apt. for rent; $75 a month, includes utilities and PERSONALS furnishings, call 232 9518. 
To all the employees of N.D.: Partially furnished house. May Thank you tor 2 beautiful 20 to Sept. 272 6174. Apt. p.ants while I was in the mornings, evenings. hospital. Anna Yordanich. 
RIDES WANTED Real funny Debbie and Rick! I 
.. 

don't even own any sandels. Desperately need ride to North But anyway: have golden Jersey N.Y.C. afrea. Can leave sunsets and beautiful dreams. late aft. May 13 or after. Call 
Jim 1409. 

Next Mohrman asked that the dining halls lend him drink canisters and give him a rate on lemonade. There was no such arrangement, however, as Mohrman reported that food surveys wanted 5 dollars rental for each of 10 canisters plus two dollars per gallon of mixed lemonade. "I could really un­derstand modest profit," Mohr­man said, "but 150 percent is not modest profit." 
"Our group is not small," he poi tinued. in O'Shaugnessy Hall. 
r-~---------------------­

SENIOR NIGHT 
AT SWEENEY'S SHAMROCK 
TONIGHT (MON) BEER 25~ 7-12 
J 






r--------------------------·
I

I  HIGHEST  
I  I  
i  C AS H  I  
II  PAID FOR BOOKS  II  
I  I  
I  BRING THEM TO:  I  
I!  NOTRE DAME  I ~  
I  BOOKSTORE  I  
I  LAST TWO DAYS OF CLASSES  I  
I  I  
II  MON.-TUES.  MAY 6-7  II  
II  BRING ALL BOOKS WHETHER  II  
I  USED ON THIS CAMPUS OR NOT  1  
I  I  
I  I  
I  NEBRASKA BOOK COMPANY  I  
II  WORLD's LARGEST COLLEGE JOBBER  II  
I  I  


Monday, April 29, 1974
the observer 

Penick's injury mars scrimmage 
Ankle dislocation, fibula complications sideline senior back 
b>' Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

For the Irish, Saturday's scrimmage went just about like the weather,sunnyat times, cloudy at others. 
The offense emerged from the doldrums of last Wednesday's workout and outshone everybody for the first half of action. And the kicking picture finally looked a little brighter. 
But the sun didn't shine all af­ternoon. First team setback Erick Penick suffered a dislocated ankle and will miss the rest of the spring workouts. 
"Eric partially dislocated his left ankle," explained Parseghian. "The dislocation resulted in a hairline fracture of the fibula which is that small bone in the upper ankle area. He'll be in a cast for six weeks, but with a little rehabilitatio[l during the summer the doctors hagve assured us he'll be ready to go in the fall."' 
In the kicking de'partment however, Ara had reason to be pleased. Junior Pat McLaughlin booted all four extra points for the first offense, which scored 28 points, kicked off on five different occasions puting three of the kicks out of the end zone, and ended the afternoon for the number two "0" with a 50 yard field goal. 
On top of that punter Tony Brantley found the form he exhibited in last year's Blue and Gold game boomimg punts of 60, 39, 40, 46, 39, 36, 31, and 60 yards. 
"The kicking game is con­siderably better," noted head coach Ara Parseghian after Saturday's practice. "One area that had brought results and rewarded work this spring has definitely been the kicking game. It's shaping up a lot better than we expected." 
Penick's injury came on the number one unit's first scoring drive of the afternoon. After Tom Lopienski intercepted a Rick Slager pass on the second team 35 and returned it all the way to the nine, Penick took a pitchout rom quarterback Tom Clements ·and swept left end for five yards. In the process, however, Penick suffered the dislocated ankle and had to leave the field on a stretcher. 
On the very next play Clements took the snap, faked left, and trotted in the end with four body guards and not a white jersey within 15 yards of him to give the first team Blues a 7-Q lead. 
The first "0" came right back a couple of minutes later. On first and ten from their own 33 AI Samuel scampered around eft end for 21 yards before Tim Simon caught him and AI Hunter, who was no less than spectacular on the afternoon bobbed and weaved 39 yards with a screen pass. The rest was academic as Samuel swept seven yards for the score. 

Parseghian was pleased wih the offensive showing In the first half. 
"There's no question that the offense improved through the first 30 minutes of the scrimmage," said Ara, "although the second half was a little disappointing. You've got to play a full60 minutes of football. 
"But overall,"he continued, "the offense improved considerably over last Wednesday's workout. We had better drives, better open field work, and better continuity all afternoon long." 
The continuity Parseghian spoke of was exhibited on the next two series of first team drives. Frank Allocco, alternating at the number one quarterback position with Clements, led the "ones" on a 14 play, 81 yard drive capped by Allocco's four yard TD run. 
The first unit came back again behind Allocco on a six play, 51 yard drive with Samuel taking an option pitch in from six yards out. The big play in that drive was again the result of some fancy footwork by freshman Hunter. AI took a screen pass at the 31, spun away from defensive backs Simon and Randy Payne at the 26, and flew 25 yards to the White six. That set up the scoring run by Samuel, and with McKaughlin's extra point gave the first unit their 28 points of 
tne afternoon. 
The second time had two chances to score during the two hour plus scrimmage session but cashed in only once. Slager engineered a drive starting on the Blue 38 after Pete Demmerle mishandled the exchange on an end around and Tom Frericks recovered the loose ball. 
The drive stalled at the 16 where a McLaughlin field goal attempt was wide to the right. The number two's did finally get on the board for the first time this spring against he number one defense when Fred Trosko took them to the Blue 33 from where McLaughlin was good for three points from midfield. The injury situation darkened somewhat also. Mark Brenneman is still out with an ankle injury as is Art Best with a sore shoulder. Russ Kornman will miss the rest of spring wth a rib injury as will Tom Parise with a bad ankle. Mike Fanning sat out 
Saturday's workout with stitches in his right hand while Kevin Nosbusch filled in for him at the tackle position. Guard AI Wujciak twisted an ankle as did Wayne Bullock, and Pete Dem­merle is still nursing a severly sprained writst. However with the exception of Penick there have been no real serious setbacks. 
This week will be preparation week as the Irish get ready for the annual Blue-Gold game on Saturday afternoon. 

...the gloom created by Eric Penick's early-afternoon ankle injury. 

Irish lose tW'o, Ylin one vs. Illinois St. 
by Sam Yannucci 

What began as a beautiful weekend for the Irish baseball team, who were 5-2 victors over Illinois State on Friday, ended disappointingly when the Red­birds bounced back and swept a Saturday afternoon doubleheader 6-4 and 5-3. 
Although several Irish players, most notably Bob Stratta, Dick Naussbaum, and Pat Coleman (6­8, 4 RBI's), turned in stellar performances during the course of the 3-game weekend series, their play was not quite enough to stop the visitors from dropping the Notre Dame squad to 11-19 for the season. 
ND 5--Illinois State 2 
Bob Stratta notched his fifth win­of the season against only three losses by turning in his second straight nine inning effort. Although the sophomore star from Olympia Fields, lllinois, yielded only 7 scattered hits, it still took some late inning heroics by teammate Pat Coleman for him to gain the win. 
· An Irish error in the 8th inning followed by a single and a double allowed Illinois State to knot tte score at 2-2. But in the bottom, 
Tizn Glass--a man to be reckoned vvith 
by Bill Delaney 

Whether he's representing the United States in the Junior World Championships in Istanbul Turkey, or fencing for Notre Dame against perennial power Wayne State, freshman epeeist Tim Glass gives it all for the sport he loves. 
Glass, a freshman from Niles, Illinois, attended Notre Dame Niles High School, where Gary Potempa and Tim Rudnick of the football team are from. "I've always wanted to participate in football, but I was always too skinny", said Glass (who's 6'2" and 175). "I wanted to play basketball, so in order to i~prove my coordination, I began fencing. I liked it so much, i've never turned to anything else." 
Fencing on the high school level <predominantly best on the East Coast and in the Chicago area) is constantly improving, and Tim's school in particular, was aided by Notre Dame's Fencing Coach, Mike DeCicco. 
"Father Justin, my high school coach, graduated from Notre Dame and knew Coach DeCicco. He was fascinated by fencing, and Coach DeCicco gave him some equipment, starting our own high school program." 
Glass fenced throughout high school, and in his senior year, he represented the United States in the Junior World Championships in Buenos Aires. He chose to come to Notre Dame because of the school spirit and the calibre of the fencing team. 
"I really don't know how to begin to try to describe how I was af­fected by the atmosphere here, but a lot of it has to do with my coach. He's taken care of me from the first day I came , in academics as well as in fencing. He never ends with fencing, for he doesn't con­sider it the most important thing in life. Our lives are the key. My 
parents and I both agreed that it's men like coach DeCicco that make Notre Dame what it is." 
Tim's season was a very suc­cessful one, compiling a 33-10 record in his first year of varsity competition. "Timmy's fencing was instrumental in our 22-1 season's record," commented assistant coach Tim Taylor. 
"Timmy's fencing lacks a bit of concentration, and there is some improvement that can be made, but he far exceeded our ex­pectations about him." 
Glass's participation in the Junior World Games two weeks ago was the result of his perfor­mances in the Junior Olympics and Junior Nationals, where he finished sixth and second respectively. "We flew over to Istanbul knowing no Turkish, but perhaps the funniest part of the trip occurred when the only Turk who knew any English at all came up to us and said 'Ara Parseghian, Ara Parseghian.' It broke our team up greatly, and was the beginning of gooa times to come." 
Tim advanced through the first round in the games only to lose in the eliminations, dropping him from the tournament. "The major reason for my defeat was the lack of technique I, as well as my teammates displayed. The other team had different training methods and stange preparations for meets, and we didn't know how to handle them. It's only a matter of time however, before we'll be on an equal par with them." 
With fencers the calibr~ ~r Timmy Glass, that time ~;y come very soon. 
of that inning of the Irish roared back with three runs to ice the game for Stratta. 
Second baseman Pete Schmidt initiated the barrage with a long three-bagger to left center. Following an infield out and an intentional walk to Mark Schmitz, Coleman smacked a 2 run triple which proved to be the margin of victory for the Irish. 
ND 4--Illinois State 6 

The first four Redbird batters greeted Irish pitcherMarkPittman with a double and three singles good for three runs that negated an otherwise fine performance by the senior from Avon, Mass. 
Although the Irish mustered a four run comeback, State's two run third inning (aided by an error) combined with their initial three runs was just a little too much for Coach "Jake" Kline's squad to overcome. 
ND picked up its first run in he fourth on a single by Schmitz, a passed ball, and another single by Pete Clemens. The Irish closed to within a run at 5-4 in the fifth in­ning on doubles by O'Neil, Naussbaum, and a home run blast by captain Tom Hansen. 
ND 3--IHinois State 5 

ND's junior hurler Marty Serena pitched four innings of perfect baseball only to tire and yiel three fifth inning runs thereby wiping out a 1-0 Irish lead. 
Notre uame ·pushed! that run across t.he plate in the first ining when Coleman's infield grounder knocked in Dick Nussbaum who had drawn a base on balls and with some heady base running had advanced to third on Schmidt's single. 
Illinois State's 3-1 lead lasted only momentarily though. The determined Irish batsmen notched two runs in the bottom of the fifth. Nussbaum, who had singled, came home on Schmidt's triple. "T­Bird" Hansen then drove in Sch­midt with a base hit. 
The score remained 3-3 again only momentarily as the second Redbird batsman in the sixth pinch hitter Rich Krieger, smacked a 370 ft. home run off the struggling Serena. Illinois State added an insurance run in the last inning when Irish reliever Jim School was tagged for a single and a double. 



