
---~ ----~--------­
On The Inside 
Extended SMC hours 
... page 3 Griff 
•.. page 7 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Friday, March 1, 1974
Vol. VIII, No. 90 
Election campaigning ends 
Capp, McLaughlin air issues at Keenan forum 
by Mary Beth Mungovan and Jim Eder Staff Reporters 
Student Body Presidential and Vice-Presidential can­didates Ray Capp-Greg Ericksen and Pat McLaughlin­Frank Flanagan ended their campaigning for Friday's run-off election by participating in a forum in Keenan Hall. The session followed an appearance with Father James Burtchaell, university provost, on the WSND "Contact" broadcast last night at 10 p.m. 
During the WSND "Contact" program, both candidates stressed views in the final hours of the campaign they felt needed emphasis. 
Ray Capp stated his campaign "has been labeled as 'service-oriented,' " because of his proposals for winter sports in Stepan Center, a meat co-op and others. He stated that "there has been a failure to recognize that we have strong platform ideas concerning work with the ad­ministration. We want to find out what students want-this means polling, this means going door to door-and then bringing their ideas to the administration." 
Pat McLaughlin emphasized the need for a fulfillment of Notre Dame's commitment to coeducation. "There is a definite need for a community-type group where coeducational interaction can take place," he stated. 
Capp explained his plans for bringing social activities back to the hall and Student Union levels. In these plans, LaFortune would be used for student government ac­tivities with the money going back to the halls through the HPC. 
Concerning coeducation, Father Burtchaell posed no need for a separate executive coordinator to handle without having you wait three months." He listed five the question to both candidates of why no women were this task, but that it was the responsibility of the such proposals: 1) the publication of food prices of all running for the office of Student Body President. Student Body President. the stores in the area; 2) the publication of all statutes, 
McLaughlin explained that there were many women McLaughlin promised to push for the adoption of Ed health codes and building codes concerning South Bend 
working on all the campaigns but, as he said, "Most of Rahill's revision of the judicial code which gives a housing, 3) a computerized car pool for off-campusthe women I've talked to don't think it's politically definite listing of all student rights. "It is not radical, it students, 4) pressure on community officials for better viable for women to run for the office." is rational," he argued. "It has been approved and police protection, and 5) legal aid for anyone on or off Capp accounted for it by stating that "many girls endoresed by the American Association of University campus in dealing with the University and landlords. 
feel they're simply tokens-not only in the classrcoms, Professors." McLaughlin insisted that this revision is but in the social atmosphere as well." He felt that needed because, "the present code only stresses To hold Off-Campus Nightstudent government and the University "must make philosophical issues and does nothing to explain basic Student Government more than mere numbers." student rights." 
In addition to his proposals for a meat co-op and off­Both candidates felt that many women made en­campus commissioners, Capp promised "to hold anthusiastic and worthwhile contributions in both Misrepresentation Off-Campus Night to explain all the problems involved campaigns. 
in living off-campus." He also proposed to have a group of former foreign students explain and advertise 
In response to the complaint that Capp has no ex­At the Keenan Hall forum, Capp repeated his charge perience in campus-wide politics, having never served that his campaign has been mislabeled "service ~he Univ~rsity's overseas programs. "This would help 
m reducmg the number of students wanting to live onon the Hall Presidents' Council or the Student Life orientated." He blamed the media and his opponents campus."
Council, Capp explained that last year he was a foreign for this "misrepresentation," claiming that his plat­study student in Japan_ form in its full scope contained ideological as well as 
concrete proposals. TGIF _parties planned
"Since my return," he added, "I have been very active in many groups on campus." "Yes," -explained Capp, "we've promised specific 
For improved on-campus social life Capp promised McLaughlin responded to the claim that he has made services like a meat co-op and the Stepan Center to sponsor "Thank God It's Friday" parties in the 
no concrete proposals by stating, "Our proposals are basketball courts, but we are also striving for other basement of LaFortune for individual halls. He also common sense proposals. We don't promise anything things." He offered his intent to push for a seat for the advocated giving more money to the halls from the
we'd have to rely on others to carry out." SBP on the central staff of the Student Affairs Office as student activities fee. 
Both candidates indicated that they 'Vill try to draw an example of "the other dimension" of his campaign. upon people and ideas which have emerged in this McLaughlin also said that more money should be
When questioned why their speeches earlier in the
campaign to execute the Student Government after allocated to the halls, but that some of it should be
week "stuck to student services and only are now
the election. "earmarked for coed functions so that it isn't all spend 
mentioning other things," Ericksen countered that 
for kitchen utensils and basketballs." He insisted that
they were usually only allowed eight minutes tospeak, 
the students should be allowed to choose how the
whereas last night they we~e given fifteen minutes.
Forum in Keenan money is to be spent and not subject to restrictions of hall rectors.
Another student pressed the issue, questioning
Speaking at the Keenan Hall forum, Pat McLaughlin whether the Capp Ericksen platform was said that "the most important issue of our campaign is "misrepresented or is now changing." Capp explained Improve social "life dealing with the administration." that the media focused on the service aspect of his "Father Burtchaell," he continued, "asked tonight campaign, because the viability of his proposals were McLaughlin a.rgued that there is something "more 
why there was so much student interest in this election. subject to attack by other candidates. essential" to improving soCial life. "Before we sponsor I believe that it is primarily due to their dissatisfaction more parties, we must move toward changing the with the administration's decisions this year, namely University's current spirit on coeducation. We have to the calendar issue, the housing problem and the No specific commitments push for a relaxation of the restrictions put on our judicial code." social life, including parietals." 
McLaughlin stated that "student leadership has been lacking this year." He argued that the only way to McLaughlin argued that he has not made specific 
Ericksen explained that more monev could be given 
"stick it to the administration is to stick to the facts. commitments for providing extensive services for off­We have to stick to strong positive leadership with tact. campus students, because he "did not want to find once to the halls next vear by spending the $5,500 surplusWe have to hit them on every issue like this." in office that they are impossible to meet. As of now, from this year;s Student Government budget.
McLaughlin argued that what is also needed is a we don't see anough money available to finance a McLaughlin said that even more money could be
"unification and clarification of our student shuttle bus service or a food co-op."organizations-the SLC, the HPC, and student "What we do promise," McLaughlin continued, "are generated by cutting down on "unnecessary Student Government." He explained that he believed there was things that we can initiate immediately once in office, 
Government expenses," such as Hot Dog Day . 
. 'It' 

l 
i 
l 
~
, 


! I 
, r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
I 
) the observer Friday, March 1, 1974 
warld 
briefs_ 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) Thousands of poor collected free bags of groceries Thursday at the second food giveaway aimed at winning the release of kidnaped Pa~ricia Hearst. Newspaper publisher Randolph A. Hearst, father of the abducted girl who put up $2 million for the food ransom , said he hoped that Thursday's problem free distribution would bring response from the kidnapers. 
NEW YORK (UPI) A vandal sprayed red paint over Picasso's famed "Guernica" painting at the Museum of Modern Art Thursday. Police reported that the man was apprehended immediately. The painting. completed by Picasso in 1937, commemorated the bombing of Guernica during the Spanish Civil War. 
CAIRO fUPI) The United States and the United Arab Republic resumed diplomatic relations Thursday for the first time since 1967. President Anwar Sadat praised Secretary Kissinger's efforts for a !\fiddle East Settlement as bringing "a new era" and publicly advised that Syria go along. 
an campus taday 
friday, March 1, 1974 
10 am, seminar-h.d. betz, library lounge. 
3:00 pm, seminar-"why exhibit?" with james paradis, harold zisler, maxine kimberley, jean battles, and jack schmidt, moreau gallery. 
4:30 pm, lecture-"reaction rates methods of analysis" by howard v. malstadt, room 123 nsh. 
6:30 track-nd. vs. drake, field 6:30, running 7:00, ace. 
8:00 pm, duplicate bridge---€veryone welcome, university club. 
7:00 pm, lenten communion service-(byzantine rite}, holy cross hall chapel. 
9:00-2:00 am-huddle ball, starlite room at the huddle. decadent attire. 8:00 pm, talk-practical uses of space for mankind, wevnher vonm braun, ccc aud. 
8:15 pm, concert-music of joio spon by smc colligate choir. madrigal singers and soloist, o'laughlin aud. 
9:00 pm, coffeehouse-music by pete snake, lower cafeteria, amc. 
saturday, march 2, 1974 
2:00 pm, basketball-nd. vs. villanova, ace. 12:00-5:00 pm art exhibit-indiana printmakers and selections from dunbarton prints,moreau gallery. 
12:00-9:00 pm, art exhibit, "intimate Iaiiberte", upper moreau gallery. 
8:00 & 10:00 film-cinema '74 "the quiet man" spon. by cac, eng. aud. & 1.00. 
8: 15 pm, ihsaa sectionals, ace. 8:15pm, concert-"opera sings" by smc opera workshop, little 
theatre. sunday, march 3, 1974 
2·00 pm, boxing, bengal bouts, ace. 
8:00 pm drama-shakespear's "measure for measure" with city center repetoire company, o'laughlin aud. ticket reser­vations 284-4176 9am-4pm, mon-fri. student-$2.00, general ­$3.50. 
2:00-4:00 pm, art exhibit-sharon brown senior comp. "ex­periments in creativity", hammes gallery. 
Free dance by SMC frosh 
The St. Patrick's Day dance, sponsored by St. Mary's freshman class. is open to all students free of charge. However, anyone wishing to attend must have a ticket. Tickets will be distributed during lunch and dinner on Friday and Saturday, at the dining hall. 
The dance will be held on Saturday, March 2, from 8:30p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Music will be provided by the Crow Brothers. Keenan, Grace, and Pangborn halls are also sponsoring the dance. 
The Observer is publiShed daily 
during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage. paid, Notre Oame, Ind. 46SS6. 
.~~~.' 


to begin your weekend 
Mas~ &_ Dinner. Spm Every Friday 
Academic Council to view 

Credit hour regulation 
by Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter 
The proposal to establish an additional charge for credit hours taken by students in excess of a general college limit will be considered by the Academic Council as a part of the new academic ~regulations . The proposal is likely to pass and be implemented in the 1974-75 scholastic year predicts James Burtchaell, C.S.C., university provost. 
The policy is intended to limit both student and faculty overloads. The maximum number of credits covered by the general base tuition will vary among the dif­ferent colleges. Presently the limit is expected to be eighteen credits for two of the colleges and seventeen for two others. Students will not be charged for the credit hours which are part of their basic curriculum 
At present the credit hour requirements are 120 hours in Arts and Letters, 126 hours in Business Administration, and 128 hours in Engineering. None of these programs necessitate a student taking over eighteen credit hours in one semester. The proposal will 
not include ROTC courses. 
The change which originated among the various colleges is a quality versus quantity decision. Dean Thomas Murphy of the college of Business Ad­ministration, observed that Notre 
Dame works with a fixed number of faculty members and when students begin to overload their schedules this becomes a burden on professors and students alike. When a few students take an excessive number of credit hours, other students are prev~nted from entering the courses of their choice. The practice is not ex­cessively prevalent,but the motion intends to counter this particular hardship and inconvenience in academic scheduling. There have been students in the past who have taken as many as twenty-five credit hours in one semester. Often students will get their schedules approved with the regulation number of hours and then add additional hours at the start of the semester. The error may not be discovered until late in the semester which could result in the student losing much of his effort. Dean Murphy believes that it is more beneficial for students to follow the recommended schedule and apply themselves to their prescribed courses than to overload with extra courses. The 
A nice place. 

change is expected to affect relatively few students. 
Dean Joseph Hogan of the college of engineering finds some students\ taking advantage of the present system. An increasing number of students enter the university with advanced credit which allows them to graduate in a shorter period. 
If the requirement for a college is 120 hours, a student could take twenty hours each semester for three years, instead of the customary fifteen hours for four years. In three years such a student would have obtained an education comparable to that obtained by others only after an additional year of study and ex­pense. 
"I would be opposed to an extn surcharge," stated Hogan, "if the students are taking the courses as oart of their rel!ular orogram." 
· Notre Dame ~emains today one of the few universities in the country where students are not charged directly by the credit hour. The credit hour proposal has been considered in previous years but never passed. As a con­sideration of tuition policy, the eventual decision will be an ad­ministrative one. 
The policy is slated to be con­sidered with the new academic regulations by the academic council. If the proposal is ap­proved by the academic council it will then be evaluated by the council •of college cleans. 

HOUI$, • MON -TUES • THUa -Pll 
9 AM 5.:10 PM W!D -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMI'LDI: liPI!CI'AC:Ui

RoGERS SEIVICE 
ALL EH 01.'S rtiESCRlrTIONS HONOIB: 
C,./1

Optical 
2.89-7809

IOGER ATWEU -OWNR 
' 

.--------------------------­
K.O. SPINS TONIGHT AT THE SENIOR BAR 
from 9-2 johnny walker red & southern comfort so~ from 4-2 don't forget happy hours: from 4-6 
25~ pints! 21 ID required 

WE'LL BE OPEN BEFORE AND AFTER TOMORROW'S GAME VS VILLANOVA. PRE­GAME SPECIAL: BLOODY MARY'S 2 for $1.00! 

..AN EXTRAORDINARILY BEAUTIFUL FEATURE· LENGTH CARTOON-A SCIENCE FICTION · ADVENTURE. IT'S IN ACLASS OF ITS OWN, EASILY THE MOST ENJOYABLE NEW ANIMATED MOVIE OF 1973."-Joseph Gelmis, Newsday 
.. T ,~all 288-8488 for times and direction
1

BES BET. -New York Magazine .· 
..THE MOST UNUSUAL MOVIE I'VE SEEN THIS YEAR." 

3

ffi~ay, ~arch 1, 1974 the observer 
Dr. Henry 
Comments on visitation changes 
by Pattie Cooney 
St. Mary's Editor 

In a statement released to the Observer, Dr. Edward L. Henry, President of St. Mary's College, commented on the extended male visitation policy. 
Here is the text of the statement. "The Board of Regents, through its representatives on the Committee to study life styles on campus, made it clear that the original resolution passed by the Regents on February 8 had been misin­terpreted, and that they had not contemplated going as late as midnight on visiting hours. It was clear that should I go beyond 10 
p.m. that it would be contrary to Board wishes, and the decision would be overriden. Consequently, though the announced hours do not necessarily reflect my personal choice, I had to operate within the parameters set for me by the Board of Regents. The decision is not ungenerous although it is not a perfect one. It does increase visiting hours 400 per cent and makes provision for improvement in other aspects of campus life style~. It is. admitt~dly a com­promise seekmg a middle ground that will not alienate any one of our constituencies." 
"Dr. Henry's statement should make it clear that the announced policy <Fr., 6-10 p.m.; Sat., 1-10 p.m.; and Sun., 1-5 p.m.), was not the policy favored by the com­mittee as a whole but the one proposed by the Regent members of the committee," explained Sister Elena Malits, member of the committee. 
Implementation of the new visitation hours on March 19, 
Workshop set for Augusta plan 
by Pattie Cooney 
St. Mary's Editor 

A workshop for St. Mary's juniors interested in the August8i Hall experiment will be held on Saturday, March 2, at 10 a.m., in Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall. This meeting is mandatory for any of next year's seniors who wish to live in Augusta. 
The experiment proposes to have 40 to 50 self responsible seniors live in the north wing of Augusta Hall next year. Those participating in the experiment will establish and enforce their own living policies within state legal bounds. They will also have their own elected student government represen­tative. At least once in the year, they will be asked to evaluate and analyze the program. 
"By showing responsibility in the actions and policies made by the residents of Augusta Hall, it would be demonstrated to parents, adminstration, and faculty, as well as to students, that Saint Mary's students can handle self-responsibility, even in an autonomous living situation," commented Marty Kabbes, President of Le Mans Hall, who initiated the proposal in Decem­ber. 
The counseling office will be conducting tests on those par­ticipating in the experiment. Questionnaires and tests will be administered before the par­ticipants move into Augusta and at the end of the vear. 
"The counseling tests are one of the most important benefits in the program," commented Housing Director Mrs. Karen O'Neill. "A lot can be learned from comparing the participants before and after they move into Augusta and from comparing them to a control group in one of the other dorms," she continued. 
J~l Foreign Car Parts Co. ~)Parts & accessories for imported car
R.:::1 for all makes at lowest prices. 
Distributor 
************************* 
:For NO Students, Faculty & Staff 10 :
* percent discount with I D & pur-* :chase of $10 or more. 1 
************************* 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland So. Bend 
PHONE: 272-7187 
depends on the response of the students and their parents. Parents will receive notification of the change on March 6. If a large number of the students and of parents express the wish to be exempted from the policy, alternative living quarters would have to be made available. 
However, if such a situation was to develop, implementation of the parietal policy would take effect in the fall, since large groups of students would be unable to relocate at this time of the year. 
The student representatives on the committee, Denise Peterson, Carol Collins, and Joanne Garrett fully support Henry's statement and will be releasing their own statement to the student body this Monday. 

THE ROMA 

welcomes all Notre Dame & St. Mary's students your host Frank Anastasio 
THIS WEEKEND: 

Dancetopopsoundsofthe PLEASANT STREET BAN D. Pool, games and draft beer in the attic. 
Pizza * Fine Italian Food * Liquor 
for deliveries ca II 234-3258. Open until 4am on weekends. 
L___219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown South Bend 

City Center Acting Company 
PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 0 'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE MARCH 3-8:00 P.M.-MEASURE FOR MEASURE MARCH 4-8:00 P.M.-THREE SISTERS 
Tickets: $3.50--Students: $2.00--Reservations: 
284-4176 9-4 Monday -Friday 

0 
Curtis Enterprises and New Era 
i /pring Get Away J 
present 

j
OVER $10,000 IN PRIZES TO BE AWARDED! ENTER NOW! YOU COULD WIN THE VACATION OF YOUR LIFETIME! 
Grand Prize 

1. 
Five, sunfilled days -four fantastic nights at the posh "Pier 66 Motel" on the ocean at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA! 

2. 
First-Class round trip transportation from winner's location to FT. LAUDERDALE! 

3. 
Honda' rental bike during the duration of your stay! 

4. 
Dinner for two at the fabulous "Pink Pussy Cat"! 

5. 
Dinner for two at the "Windjammer" 

6. 
Dinner for two at "Pier 66" -the world's most fantastic supper club overlooking the beautiful blue ATLANTIC! 

7. 
$100.00 credit account in your name at "She" -the swingingest singles spot in Florida! Top name entertainment seven days a week! 

8. 
$50.00 credit account in your name at "The Button" -Lauderdale's leading after-hours club! 

9. 
$1 00.00 cash -to spend as you please! 


10 Each Second Prizes 
1. 
Three days, two nights at Holiday Inn, on the ocean, at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA. 

2. 
Round trip transportation (from winner's location). 

3. 
Dinner for two at "The Windjammer." 

4. 
$25.00 credit account in your name at "She." 

5. 
$25.00 cash -to spend as you please. 


1,000 Third Prizes 
1. Any one stereo LP or 8 track tape of your choice listed in the current New Era Records Catalog . 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 
1 Contest open only to bonafide students of an accredoted college or unoversoty 
2. Wonners woll be selected by the W.A Wolholt Corporatoon, an ondependent JUdgong organozatoon. Wonners woll be selected at random and the decosoon of the JUdges woll be tonal A lost of all wonners woll be available upon wntten request to New Era Records. 
3 To regoster. pont onformatoon on spaces provoded on coupon . .-. 4 Enclose $1 00 for processong and handhng. Remot by check or postal money order only PAYABLE TO: "NEW ERA RECORDS-CEI." 5 Maol your regostratoon to NEW ERA RECORDS 
SUITE 108 1100 SPRING STREET N.E. ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30309 

6 Entroes must be postmarked NOT LATER THAN March 8th, 1974 
..................................................................... 
CURTIS ENTERPRISES -NEW ERA RECORDS 
"I certify that I am a student at---------,·--­
(name of school) 

Name _______________________ Address--------------------­City _________State ____ Zip ____ Phone _______ 
4 

the observer Friday, March 1, 1974 
Classes begin May 16th 
SMC summer session courses announced 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
A new summer school session, with course offerings in thirteen departments, is slated to begin May 16 at St. Mary's. The program is open to both ND and SMC students. 
The courses offered can be taken 
The following is a list of courses

Justice C0 unc1 s ar S sub~itted to Sr. Gertrude Anne by 
bv Leanne Jacques -StaffRl'porter 
The first organizational meeting of the St. Joseph Criminal Justice Coordinating Council was held Wednesday, February 27 at ST. Mary's College. Dr. Edward L. Henry hosted the meeting and Judge Norman Kopeck, Superior Court, temporily chaired the Council. 
About 30 participants attended the meeting. Among them were local, city and county officials and law enforcement personnel . 
Jean Norris, Director of the Indiana Criminal Justice Bureau, said, "This was the initial meeting of all criminal justice personnel in the St. Joseph County. A Criminal Council has not, as of yet, been set up in this area." Wednesday's meeting dealt with the possibility of establishing a Criminal Council in in St. Joseph's County. 
What is he like? 
"Hopefully, the Crime Council will be~.ome a ~oun~y-wide p~ogram, Mr. Norrts s~td. He c1ted Lake County, Indtana as havi~g an al~eady established workmg Counctl. This Criminal Council. w~n~ld work to improve the JUdtctal processes. The Law Enforcement Assistan_ce A_dministration (LEAA), m Washm~ton D.C., ha_s suggested the ~nme Counctl program for ~ountles.of 250,000 a~d over populatwn. Thts program lS f e d e r a I f u n d e d · Judge Kopeck stated that the primary purpose off the Crime Council is to "set up a planning body for various elements of criminal justice which would maximize efforts by co-operating with these consolidated resour­ces." The Council would be established t~rough a commitment 
by the vanous elements par­ticipation and an adoption of· by­laws. 

,. The typical ND freshman 
The typical Notre Dame fresh­man 
--is white, Roman Catholic, received above average high school grades, applied to and was accepted by more than one college or university, and chose Notre Dame because it "has a good academic reputation." 
--is financially dependent upon a family where the income is bet­ween $10,000 and $25,000 and has a father and mother who both at­tended a college or university. 
--is "middle-of -the-road" politically and believes strongly that women should get job equality, that the government should control pollution and protect the consumer, and that the wealthy should pay more taxes. 
--is apt to be studying for a career an engineer, physician or lawyer but believes that the most essential objective in one's education is to "develop a philosophy of life." 
This is the composite Notre Dame student who emerges from the American Council on Education's annual survey of incoming freshman across the country. 
Some areas in which the Notre Dame students differed markedly from the national norm were average grade in high school <higher than the national average), number of applications to and acceptances from in­stitutions of higher learning (more of each) highest degree planned <more post-baccalureate goals), reasons for selecting one's college or university (93 per cent cited academic reputation yersus national norm of 63 per cent), distance from college to home <greater), working mothers (fewer than national average), father's education (more beyond high school than nationaI norm), residence and religion (more on­campus living and 97 per cent Roman Catholic versus national norm of 29 per cent). 
There are also .~ignificant diijerences between N~~re. D!:ime. 
... r.t.·:~·... "". 
for enrichment or to fulfill course and Course listings, she said, will be major SMC requirements offered changed, "to meet the needs and can bfsaid Co-ordinator of Summer interests of the students." Thus, if Programs, Sr. Gertrude Anne. "half a dozen or so"students are 
Courses vary in length from 1-6 interestedin taking a particlular weeks, while credit also differs course, it could be added to the from 1-6 semester hours, depen-curriculum.. ding on the course taken. Cost of the program is set at 
Much of the program is still $52.00 per semester hour, while a tenatative. said Sr.Gertrude Anne. double room plus board is $95.00.
•1 t t 

~:....~--,h,, ..... .;. ..._ ·;~ .. -~. ~.......,...~ ..• ~""~ .... ' ..... ~ ~ .. •"01 ...... 
vanous departments: 
. (1-6 weeks) Language of Drawing Mixed: Painting and drawing Design: Creative Anatomy Art Education Natural Dying, Spinning, Macrame, Looms, weaving An Educator's View of the 20th Century: Problems in the Gallery Techniques in Firing Photographic Processes History of Art Nature Study: in the Nature Area ( education majors) Curriculum Student Teaching Glasser Workshop Journalism Set Theory Mathematical Logic Cultural History of Mathematics Introduction to Computers Computer Programming 
Music Literature Environmental Ethics Contemporary Humanism 

freshmen and the1r national Income of families of Notre counterparts on the subject of Dame students does not differ large families. While half Notre greatly from the national norm. Dame's freshmen agree with the Fifty-threepercentofNotreDame statement "large families should parents fall between $10,000-$25,000 be discouraged," this compares compared with a 59 per cent with 72 per cent nationally. Also, national norm. There are, 53 per cent of Notre Dame's however, 12 per cent of Notre freshmen plan families of more Dame families with an income of than two children, compared with $50,000 or more, compared with a a national norm of 35 per cent. _national figure of 6 per cent. 
--" --~--­
· l 
W~t C!Inlnnial
1 
1 
Janrnkt ~nust 
I 

" "Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
:~::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;::~ 
1 :::: 35 Varieties of Pancakes :;:: I tchicken -Steak -Sandwiches :lll~ I ;:;: Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ::;:: 
=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::i: 
I 
I 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edward NO '50 


~~~==============~ 
c Now Renting 
A one and two bedroom furnished apartments
M 

p 
VISIT OUR REPRESENTATIVE 
IN THE OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE IN 
THE BASEMENT OF THE 
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CEN­
u s TER. 

WEDNESDAY 1-5 THURSDAY 1-5 FRIDAY 1-5 
I 
v OR CALL 232-5853 CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT 
COMPANY 
w 
E "APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND" 
. '-----.-..-.---.. "-"'"-.-_-"--.~--"-.,..~--------~­Principles of· Economics I Principles of Economics IK Principles of Accounting I Principles of Accounting II Business Finance Principles of Marketing 
Computer Money and Banking Cost Accounting Statistics II Econometrics of Urban Economics 
Advanced Marketing Civil Rights: Current Expansion and Future Pros 
Applications now being taken for 1975 l:bme Editor-in-Chief 
Leave your name and qualifications at the yearbook office (7524) or at the Student Affairs Office (7308) by 
Monday, Nbrch .4 
The World of Karl Marx Revolutionary Theory and Practice General Psychology 
Behavior Principles and the Exceptional Child Practicum in above course Biblical Theology Mission Education (July 1-15) Introduction to Sociology Social Problems Summer Theatre Workshop Intensive Beginning Italian 
(May 20-31; 3 sem. hrs. to fulfill Rome Program requirement) 

(the editor) 


Any boy or girl 25 years of age' or younger can color the Pittsburgh Paints peacock with colored pencils or crayons and bring it in to our store. You need not buy anything to win. Winners will be named March 22, 1974. 
HOME DECOR CENTER COLLEGE SQUARE 
721 W. McKINLEY MISHAWAKA, INDIANA Ph. 256-1511 

SEE OUR CUSTOM COLOR COLLECTION 
NAME______________ ADDRESS____________ 
CITY________________ 
STATE__________ZIP_______ PHONE___________________ 
L------------------------~ 
----~-~-­
-----~

-----.-----­
~---~---­
:..••~~ .~ t •• ~ .•-\~.,~{~ 
· Frldav:-Mara.-1, 1974-­


Husband-wife teaching teams 
Committee W proposes part-time teachers 
by Jane Thornton Staff Reporter 

What's Committee W's answer to the dearth of women faculty members? 
It proposes part time ap­pointments to the REGULAR Teaching Faculty to attract both women and husband-and-wife teaching teams to the university. 
Committee W is the American Association of University Professor's group concerned with the status of women on campus. Its Subcommittee on Part-time Status, consisting of Asst. Prof. Economics Kenneth Jameson, Chairman and Part-time Associate Profes-sional Specialist Alberta Ross and Asst. Prof. of Psychology Ellen Ryan, submitted its findings last December to the university. 
AA UP President Dennis J. 
Dugan, Chairman and Associate 
Professor of Economics, ex­
plicates, "We're interested in 
hiring women. Sometimes family 
duties or the desire to have a 
family prohibits a person from 
participating on a full-time basis. 
This plan lets a person gear down 
and still be a permanent part of the 
academic community." 
Besides attracting women and 
husband-and-wife teaching teams, 
Dugan points out that it should 
draw prestigious professors 
desiring a part-time teaching and 
writing combination. John Ken­
neth Galbraith of Harvard, for 
instance, is a part-time instructor 
there while still devoting half of his 
time to writing. 
A reduced lead appointment 
might also be appealing for health 
reasons or as a means of gradual 
retirement. There is no sex 
discrimination. 
Part-time appointments are 
currently permitted in the 
Nonregular Teaching Faculty and 
the new provision will not 
eliminate these positions. The 
Nonregular Teaching Faculty 
consists of visiting professors, 
adjunct professors, guest lec­
turers, etc. 
faculty member may negotiate for 
The report requires three a part-time position and vice­
amendments to the Academic Manual and also includes 
versa. Salary and fringe benefits would provisions concerning benefits, correspond to the fractionalresponsibilities ~n? te~ure. . 
amount of time served.
The basic revision IS part-time Responsibilities of part-timeappointments will become possible faculty members encompasses the to the Regular Teaching Faculty. 
same areas as full-time facultyThese appointments will be per­members and will be apportionedmitted at all ranks of the Regular according to work load. Part-time
Teaching Faculty. These ap­
appointees will have full votingpointments will be permitted at all privileges in departmental andranks of the Regular Faculty university affairs and the right to
specified in the Academic Manual: Teaching and Research, serve on and be elected 
representatives to the variousSpecial Resea~ch , Library ~nd bodies and committees of theSpecial ProfessiOnal. A full-time 
Senator Percy plans Sunday appearance 
by Cecilia Michel Staff Reporter 

Senator Charles Percy of Illinois, an announced candidate 
for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1976 will appear at Notre Dame Sunday . Senator Percy will speak to the ND com­munity at Stepan Center at 7:30 p.m. 
The program includes an in­troduction by Senator Percy concerninghis position on several political Issues followed by a question and answer period. The Chicago Club of Notre Dame will host a public reception in the Grace Tower conversation area later in the evening. 
Well known throughout the 
· Illinois area, Percy was reelected to a second term in the Senate in 1972. Beginning his political career as a Senate member in 1966, Percy professes a strong con­viction in the American "work ethic". 
A champion of consumer in­terest, Percy's Senate activities include a proposed reformation off the Congressional budgetary process along with strong inf­fluence in the struggle ffor durg abuse and treatment act. Sitting on the appropriations government operations and joint economic committees, Percy was involved with the initial Republican proposal for a Senate investigation into Watergate. 
Not afraid of Watergate, Percy has already enterd his bid ffor the Republican candidate in the 1976 Presidential race. The Senator is working for the end of all wage and price controls as well as voting against passage off the emergency energy bill. 
Interested in integrity and what the "voters want" Percy is en­tering the Presidential campaign circuit with an optimistic but realistic, "hard work" attitude. 
The Senator will continue his campaign at Notre Dame, arriving in South Bend Sunday. Sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission, Senator Percy's talk is open to the public without charge. 
SMC to host Fine Arts Festival 
The music, art, and drama departments of St. Mary's Coll~ge will host the Second Annual Fme Arts Festival, February 28 through March 6 on the campus. 
Pulitzer Prize-winning composer Norman Delio Joio will make a return appearance today to open the Festival. Delio Joio, whose work "The Mass," was premiered at the 125th anniversary ob­servance of the College in 1969, will conduct a forum, "The Composer Speaks," at 4:30 in the Little Theatre, located in Moreau Hall. 
Friday afternoon, March 1 at 3 
p.m. an art seminar will be held in the Moreau Gallery. Discussing "Why Exhibits?" will be area artists James Paradis, Harold Zisla Maxine Kimmerly, Jean Battl~s and Jack Schmidt. 
Frid~y evening, the music of DelloJoiowill be performed by the St. Mary's College Collegiate
Choir, the Madrigal Singers, and 
soloists at 8:15p.m. in O'Laughlin 
Auditoriu. A reception honoring 
the com poser will be held in the 
auditorium foyer following the 
concert. 
Scenes from famous operas will 
be presented by the St. Mary's 
College Opera Workshop on 
Saturday, March 2, at 8:15 
The New York City Center Acting 
Company will perform 
Shakespeare's "Measure for 
Measure" on Sunday, March 3, and 
Chekov's "Three Sisters" on 
Monday, March 4. Each per­
formance begins at 8 p.m. in 
O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets 
are $3.50 for adults and $2.00 for 
students. 
Also returning to the College during the Festival are Arlene Portney, concert pianist, and her brother, Robert, concert violinist. On Monday, March 4, Ms. Portney will conduct a forum on the in­terpretation of piano music of the 19th century at 4:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre. She will direct a piano master class the following afternoon beginning at 3:30 p.m. also in the Little Theatre. 
A duo recital featuring the Portneys will be presented Wed­nesday, March 6, at 8:15 p.m. in the Little Theatre. Tickets for this event are $1.00 
A special showing of selected works by Noman Laliberte, in­ternationally known multi-media artists, will begin Thursday, February 28 in the Upper Moreau Gallery, and run during the Festival only. Included in this exhibit will be works completed by Laliberte in the late 1950s and early 1960s, years he spent as a member of the College's art department. The traveling In­diana Printmakers show is being held over in the Moreau Gallery through March 6, as is the Dun­barton Collection of Prints. An exhibit of the work of Harold Zisla will continue in the Hammes 
Gallery through March 1. 
Admission to all Festival events is free, except where previously noted. For reservations or ad­ditional information, please contact the office of programming at 284-4176, between the hours of 9 
a.m. and 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
r-
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR ••OTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
,,. 

$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double ~ccupancy 
t 

No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. Thru June 15th, 1974 except May 18 and 19. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
univeristy. 
Regular Faculty members holding part-time appointments as Instructors, Assistant Professors and Associate Professors may claim extension of time in un­tenured status. Tenure may be granted to part-time faculty members under this plan. 
The policy appears on the Academic Council's spring agenda. Dugan is hopeful that the proposal will pass since the university itself is drafting a similiar plan. 

c Now Renting 
A one and two bedroom furnished apartments
M 
p 
u 
VISIT OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN THE OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE IN 
s 
THE BASEMENT OF THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
WEDNESDAY 1-S THURSDAY 1-Sv FRIDAY 1-S 
E 
I OR CALL 232-5853 CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT 
COMPANY 

w "APARTMENTS WTH THE STU[B\lf IN MIND" 
!JIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHHINfiHtllllllllffNIIIIIIllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHHUIHIIWPJ""III •1&!£ 
i Cinema 74 presents: I 
~ ~ 
= = 
I "THE QUIET MAN.. I 
~ ~ 
I starring I IJohn Wayne and Maureen O'Hara I 
Saturday and Sunday at 8 and 10 pm in the Engineering Aud. 

j
= Admission $1.00 = 
= = 
§ Patrons Free § 
~IIUIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIWUIIIIIIIIIUIIUIUUIIWIIIUIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ 
National Coordinating Committee for Justice Under Law 
PRISO:'\ REFORl\1 HE:'\EFIT 
CONCERT 
JOHN DENVER 
.llld 

Nittv. Grittv. Dirt Band STEVE C~OC)Dl\lA~ Bill ()LIVER s,vofford 


MONDAY 

MARCH 4th 8:00P.M. 
NOTRE DAME Athletic& Convocation Center 
' Ticket Prices: _ . 1Behind stage and Blejchers $3.50_ 
Tickets on sale NOW ai.ACC Ticket\Office. 
I. 

~----------·-----~----­
THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett Editor-in-Chief Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Executive Editor NEWS: 283-1715 
John KloosLee Gentine 

EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
Advertising ManagerBusiness Manager 

BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Friday, March 1, 1974 

Again-Vote Capp 
Round Two starts today at lunch time when the tickets of Ray Capp-Greg Ericksen and Pat McLaughlin-Frank Flanagan pair off in the run-off voting. 
On Monday, The Observer supported the candidacy of Capp and Ericksen in the primary and today this newspaper restates its stand behind Capp and Ericksen as they enter the final round of voting.
Throughout the campaign, candidates have claimed that Capp and Ericksen could not effectively run Student Government because they were newcomers. Other candidates said that because they were new to the govern­ment, it would take weeks, maybe monthf' for them to become ac­customed to the mechanics of working in Student Government. But in the long run, their newness is rather to their ad­vantage. The election of these two will inject new blood into Student Govern­ment along with new, fresh ideas. 
Thought they have been publicized mainly for their service-oriented platform, the Capp-Ericksen ticket can supply the leadership that is necessary today in Student Government. It will be their responsibility likewise to protect students' rights and push for judicial reform. It is believed at The Observer that Capp-Ericksen can meet these needs. 
-The Editorial Board 

Support Prison Reform 
Monday night some talented musicians will be playing a benefit at Notre Dame, the proceeds of which will be directed to a group called the National Coordinating Committee for Justice Under Law who are working to implement an "Alter­native to Prison Program." 
The idea is one that should be con­sidered and one likewise that will initiate a great deal of discussion, starting here next week following the concert when the group will hold a two-day conference on their ideas . Included in the group that will be discussing this alternative are the Indiana State Director of Corrections, a few Indiana State Senators, a couple bi~hops of the Catholic Church and
t 
hopefully Senator Birch Bayh among 
The alternative involves giving in­mates an opportunity to work and be trained for a study job while living with counselors instead of serving a prison term. The idea is going to be tried in Washington and a similar project was undertaken in 1966 at the Indiana State Farm at Pendleton under the direction of Notre Dame Professor Hugh O'Brien. 
The idea is a sound one and at least merits a great deal of discussion and investigation. To do this, it must be funded and that's the purpose of the Monday night show. Buy a ticket for the show and lend your support to an im­portant cause at the same time. 
-Jerry Lutkus 

l 

Kelly's Korner 
by mike kelly 
the obser.ver 
Morning Editor: AI Ru!'herford Ass. Morning Editor: Gary Allietta Staff: Mike Donovan, Bob Quakenbush, Joel Burian Sports: Vic Dorr, Greg Corgan, 
Muscles Crash Copy Editor: Terry Keeney Day Editor: Val Zurblis, Zenon 
Bidzinski Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Joe Abell Typists: Mike Seidel, Claire Kelly, 
Karen Hinks, Bill Menk Guest Feature Editor: J.R. 

william murphy 
Dear Freshmen 
In my day to day dealings with you I keep thinking how different you are than we seniors. Not trying to speak for all seniors, I can remember many of us who were mystified by the awesome image of Notre Dame when we arrived in South Bend as freshmen. To more than a few it was a place that we had dreamed of coming to for some ridiculously long periods of time. 
Again, not trying to generalize, I've noticed that this year's fresh­men have a clearer view of Notre Dame. You seem more mature. You are definitely less boggled by the idea of Notre Dame. And deep inside, although it goes against my grain to admit, you will all be better off because of it. 
I don't blame the seniors for not seeing Notre Dame with a clear mind. We had a lot going against us. 
For those of us who really dreamed about this place there was a lot of lore to get lost in. Old pictures, stories and traditions to get caught up in. We were busy cheering Joe Theisman and Austin Carr, winning the Cotton Bowl and beating UCLA. The idea of Ted Hesburgh alone was a divine mystery. We had to deal with the concert-date syn­drome and it was almost a full time job to make contacts at St. Mary's when this was still an all male institution. 
It is any wonder we didn't get our first real look at du Lac until pre­registration for sophomore year? 
Now I don't mean to say your class hasn't had its moments either. You've had a National Championship and a UCLA victory. But you seem to have put things in a more even perspective. You haven't let these big events cloud your minds when it comes to the rest of this place. 
You can see what the administration can really be like. You've gotten to know what kind of people they really are much quicker than we seniors ever did. . 
You know Father Burtchaell. You've seen where administration priorities really lie. And what's more, I believe you have found out that one real essential about Notre Dame which took us a long time to realize. Notre Dame, whether it's the one you dreamed of or just another college, is the people you come here with. The administration seems to forget that it's these people who have gone and will go here who make this place. It's the people who perpetuate the tradition and more concretely, it'sthe people who contribute the money. 
You know, as we finally know, that these people whom you live with while you're here are what makes this place great. From all over the country and from so many different backgrounds, they shape your life while the administration, claiming to be Notre Dame, accepts the credit. 
Why? I'm not sure I can explain it. There are as many answers as there are different kinds of people. Your maturity is one answer. I believe the presence of women as normal members of your life style is another. 
The whole point of this article is this. Since you've grasped the picture of the whole Notre Dame so quickly, use it to your advantage. If you know this place isn't for you, get out while you can. Don't wait till you're stuck here, unable to transfer out. But if this place is for you, enjoy its best part...the people. Don't shut yourself up in your room or the Library. Let them affect you. And don't do it just in the bars. Do it in the art gallery, thedining hall, the Rock, and most especially in the dorm. 
To put it in the administration's crass terms: you're paying to come to Notre Dame.. get your money's worth! 


,.,.• • 'fi PW' IN J 
· Friday, March 1, 1974 the observer 
7

,.~\,... .... ~ 
L•tters Ta A Lanely Eiad 
mysteries as deep as dogmas 


extravaganza with john denver 


One thing I think I have usually tried to do is to understand people. I listen to them and ask questions, attempting to find out why it is that one man drinks, and another man steals. After twenty years of being a priest, in one way or another I have touched the thinking of hoboes and harlots, agnostics and saints. Once I was proposed to by a fat lady in the circus; once I was introduced to the choreographer for some dancing bears. Twice I had eye contact with a ballerina; I also had lunch with the authentic Tin Man from the Wizard of Oz. The result of my attempts at understanding is to know that in people, I have touched mysteries as deep as the dogmas of faith. Even with so humble a being as my little dog, Darby, there are moods and reservations I can only wonder at; there are secrets he is not telling; there is a privacy he maintains with dignity that keeps him a stranger I cannot fully intrude upon. 
Most of all, of course, I cannot understand God. I am happy to say that the prophets and evangelists in the Bible didn't un­derstand Him, either. He is incomparable as the winemaker at Cana of Galilee, or as the Christ Who raised Lazarus from the dead, or as the father imaged in the parable of the Prodigal Son. But when he threatens hell fire and the never-dying worm to sin­ners, I am ashamed of my Deity's moodiness. If God Almighty can think of nothing more fulfilling for children than to have them gnawed on forever by deathless worms as a punishment for their sins, then He has violated His own ethic of turning the other cheek. Such petulance would be tasteless even for a monsignor, and theologically inconsistent with the holiness 
Headlining Monday night's Prison Reform Benefit concert will be John Den­ver, a man who plays and composes some of the prettiest follk music around. The RCA recording artist has received a good deal of attention lately with appearances on McCloud and The Tonight Show, as well as an upcoming network special of his own. His albums have been selling very well. "John Denver's Greatest Hits" is one of the hottest albums in the nation, and no doubt several more copies will be sold after this concert. 
Denver has been recognized as a creative force in the music industry ever since 1967 when Peter, Paul, and Mary recorded his "Leaving, On a Jet Plane", which later became a hit single for them. John had a minor hit in 1970 with "Rhymes and Reasons", but really hit the charts in 1971 with "Take Me Home, Country Roads" and "Poems, Prayers, and Promises." "Rocky Mountain High" was the big song for Denver in 1972, from the album of the same name. And now "Sunshine on My Shoulders" has been re-released following tremendous public reaction to the Sunshine 
T.V. show. The latest album of new John Denver material is "Farewell Andromeda". 
very full, due to extnesive use of both six
SwoHord and twlve string guitars. His arrangements are generally quite tastefully done, with only a small amount of the orchestration that ruins so many albums of folk music. Much of the credit for the recording must go to producer Milt Okun, who also produced Peter, Paul, and Mary. Denver is recognized by many as being one of the 
a preview by rich donovan 
home is a littlecloserthan Colorado. Steve was discovered in his hometown of Chicago a few years ago by Kris Kristofferson. A record contract followed and Steve began to receive great reviews on the club circuit and in the music trade papers. His career was helped by good friend John Prine, who has 
simultaneously developing a following of his own, and Arlo Guthrie, whose recording of Goodman's "City of New Orleans" became very popular. Steve played Notre Dame in the fall of 197G-Washington Hall to be ex­act. He is a superb entertainer and com­poser and a very welcome addition to Monday night's lineup. 
Itshould be mentioned that the organizers of this concert are alsostaginga conference on Tuesday and Wednesday dealing with the Indiana prison system. Many political, church, and institutional leaders will take part and the public is welcome. All meetings will be at the Center for Con­tinuing Education. 
Only bleacher and back-stage seats remain for Monday's extravaganza starring John Denver, the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, 
Steve Goodman, and Bill Swofford. All tickets are available at the ACC Ticket 0ffice only and will be on sale through showtime. Itpromises to be a musical event that should not be missed, so don't. 
John 
~-~ 
of a well-adjusted Trinity. 

If, then, I as mystified by Omnipotence and the haughtiness of cocker spaniels, and all the range of creatures from unicorns to Bambi, to Bingo champs and plumbers moonlighting in the chorus of the Swan Lake Ballet, what am I to make of students who knock on my door to tell me of the grass they smoke, the people they sleep with, and the strange gods before whose altars they are burning incense? 
Now I find I must write a letter to the parents of one of those students: a bright, intelligent lad with a fine appearance who has been talking for some time of his in­volvement in a Gay Awareness group. Recently, he broke this news to his adoring family: "Say hello," he said, "to your son and brother, who is a homosexual." Such news is hardly reassuring to a proud father and a doting mother. My job as a campus minister is to help people feel comfortable with one another. My problem is to be resourceful enough to be helpful in a situation where I am more ignorant than knowing. 
Our society has a real badass image of the homosexual person. Lesbians, we can't even imagine. As for those whom we dismiss as faggots, we have rather grotesque stereotypes: a homosexual is an effeminate man with limp wrists and a lisp. He is most apt to work as a hairdresser or a fashion designer; if not watched, he can be a danger to the virtue of children. In the evening, he consorts with other hair dressers and designers. If you see a couple of fags together, you want to giggle at their silliness. So runs at least one stereotype we have of the homosexual. 
To the parents of the homosexual student whom I will call Paul, I will write: Neither you nor I recognize either the ahbits or the mannerisms of your son in this caricature. In any place, among any group where I see Paul, he is conspicuous only for the gracefulness of his ways; for his frien­dliness, his humor and his thoughtfulness; and for the concern and compassion he has for people. I know little of the inside hap­penings of the gay world. But when they are with me, your son and his friends inspire not giggles, but respect. 
Two years ago, I wrote of homosexual people as birds with broken wings. I think now that the phrase was too con­descendingly pitying. I have sympathy for all people for whom their sexuality is a problem; but I am not going to say of homosexuals that they should be specially pitied, as though I knew their homosexuality was a sickness; and of heterosexual per­sons, that they do not need pity, as though all heterosexuals were at peace with their eroticism. I have a deep sadness, at times, for my homosexual friends, as I would be sad for anyone who is not understood, or who does not understand himself. In certain night scences in New York, I have caught glimpses of a decadence that troubles me; immediately when I begin to think this way, I know I am dealing with the stereotypes of gay bars and pickups that are too promiscuous for human dignity to be soiled by. I think that the homosexual person needs a special kind of patience and self­discipline to keep sexuality from being more than ordinarily self-destructive. I think he, like all of us, needs a special kind of grace from God to understand the mystery of a sexuality that should never be an end in 

The style of his music can be described as 
better acoustic guitarists, though his songs are not all tha€ hard to play. His lyrics talk of interpersonal relationships, of love, and of nature. He is not afraid to interpret other people's songs, whether they be his friend 
Bill Danoff's, or some from Lennon & McCartney. Perhaps John Denver's music is best described as very easy listening. 
Appearing with Denver on Monday night will be Steve Goodman, a folksinger whose itself, but only a way of responding to the demands of human love. 
I will say to Paul's parents: trust you son, as all parents must trust their children. All of us move through worlds that leave scars upon our souls; none of us will arrive at the Father's house without wounds from travelling among brigrJnds on the Jericho road. It is the special strength and ex­penditures of the Good Samaritan that will bring us with joy to our journey's end. I think this to be true about Paul: because of the ways you have taught him to be decent­because of his inner faith and his special gift of charity -because he has the courage to be honest, and the thoughtfulness to be kind --his homecoming will not be solitary, but in the company of friends who he has served in a ministry of love, as their personal Good Samaritan. 
Once upon a time, there was a black world, which, in our ignorance, we feared, until someone coming from that world said what it meant to be black, and taught was that black is beautiful. 
Once upon a time, as well as now, there is a gay world which, from its stereotypes, we judged to be sick. People are beginning to emerge from that world, and say what it means to be gay, and tell us that gay is good. 
Is gay good? In a world where I am equally confused by creators and cocker spaniels, I do not know whether gay is good, or not. But Paul thinks gay is good and Paul is gay. Faith means to believe where you do not understand, and I believe in Paul. I think Paul is trying to find his way through the stereotypes of the gay world. Perhaps through Paul's experience of himself, he can tell us whether gay is good, or not. We certainly cannot tell him. 

~-~~_t~~ I}J_~~ ~-~-J~ ,-~~~~?~-~d~it-~.· ..·(·::.·:.·}/ ·. · 



1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
BEER SPECIALS 
-less than $2.32 

the observer
8 
Friday, March 1, 1974 


Touching the White House 
Editor: 
During the other day's news conference held by Pres. Nixon the subject of Alexander Solzhenitsyn was brought up. Nixon was asked about his reaction to the case whether it would effect Soviet­American relations. Nixon, as his wont, twisted the question in such a way that he made it appear that a statement of support of Solzhenitsyn would lead to a resumption of the cold war and possible nuclear war. The ways of Nixon are indeed strange, but it pointed out a situation that is revealing as regards U.S. policy. 
The United States is the only major country in the Western world that has not condemned the Soviet action. Even the so-called leftist government of Sweden condemned it. Even the com­munist parties of France, Italy and Sweden condemned it. Not the United States. The only action or statement by the U.S. was a lukewarm statement by Mr. Kissenger in which he said he was happy Solzhenitsyn was out of the country and not in trouble. That was all. The White House refused to comment. 
Solzhenitsyn has showed courage that most of us cannot really believe. One wonders if the Soviet government did imprison him, what our reaction would be? Perhaps the Nixon administration feels that a market for wheat, held back from the consumer is more 
important  than  a  m'an  like  
Solzhenitsyn.  
The  silence  of  the  Nixon  ad­ 
ministration  is  morally  

reprehensible in this matter. If the so-called leader of the free West cannot afford to make a statement in this regard, but the Communist Party of France can, something is wrong. 
I think it is not with the American people, but with a weak and disturbed President clutching on to any loose straws that will keep him afloat. The price of a detente, that appears not to be working, is too high a price for me to pay. 
If the United States government as it stands now does not really care about men like Solzenitsyn then how can we expect it to care about common men like us? The case of Solzhenitsyn is one that touched most men and women of 
* 12 pack cans 
* Case beer -less than $4.00 
I I 

Go Notre Dame • VILLIFY VILLANOVA I 
EA c' ON EDISON· LEFT AT Ll NEBACKER 200 yds. on left 
lC percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD 'I CASE::. OF LIQUOR AND WINE. . TO ORDER KEGS 
the world, except apparently in the White House. I guess the men in the White House cannot be touched by anything. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin P. McKernan 219 Holy Cross 
Failure 
Editor: 
It is with regret that I must write to you to express my disen­chantment over the way in which you have consistently failed to publish some news items regar­ding activities sponsored by Howard Hall. 
On February 11 at 12:00 noon I personally typed and delivered to your office an announcement that Dr. William Liu would be speaking in Howard on February13 at 7:30 
p.m. On Tuesday I stopped in to your office to remind your people about the activity and was assured that the announcement would be published in Wednesday's On Campus Today. The an­nouncement was never made. Futhermore, I received a call from 
The Observer half an hour before Dr. Liu's talk reconfirming an earlier agreement that a reporter would be in Howard to cover the event. Much to my dismay, no one from your office ever came. 
Again, on February 22, Howard Hall held another event in the Chapel. Your office was notified well in advance of the On Campus Today deadline about our "free and open to all" musical festivity which included talented musirians from all over campus. 
Despite The Observer's failure to publish these announcements both activities were successful. ' Nevertheless, your office has been remiss in its responsibilities and I would like your assurances that some improvement will be made in regard to these matters. 
Bob Chong President, Howard Hall 
How Do You Do It? 
Editor: 
Upon a cursory examination of 
Observer recommendations for 
the upcoming SLC election, one 
could not help but feel relieved. At 
last, there was a credible source 
which one could refer to and upon 
which an ultimate determination 
co~ld be made. Obviously, some 
reliable criterion is needed in 
evaluating the candidates, as most: 
Jim 
'63 
Chuck 
'65 
''· 

SLC platforms are rather vague and general. 
However, upon closer inspection the feeling of relief is quickly replaced by confusion and dismay. One can only wonder and marvel at the endorsement process of the Observer. Two questions im­mediately come to mind. First, what standards do they base their judgements upon? The only mention that would even ap­proximate a general explanation is ! the allusion to " ... few have any judicial or hall experience and most have failed to do 'their homework' in anticipation of their running for this body . . . " It seems evident then, that no such valid explanation is preferred. 
The second question that comes up is what constitutes the "ratings' 
of recommenrled, satisfactory or questionable? This confusion, in part, arises because no one outside The Observer staff have any reasonable idea what standards 
these determinations are based on. . But even further, the three aforementioned "ratings" are so vague and ambiguous as to render them useless. 
Furthermore, what· about the interviews with the candidates, assuming that they did have them? 
What qualities were they -looking for? These, among other questions, are in need of some sort of response in order to lend any credence to The Observer's so­called SLC endorsements. 
Come on, what do they take us for? Do they really expect us to accept their judgements are reasonable or worthwhile on blind faith alone? It is unfortunate in­deed, that this paper would admit intentionally or not, such in­dispensible information. The importance placed on these up-
234-5822 MICHAEL LONIER 
~=~~ 

Student Union Invites You To 
ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
1/2 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar

* 
Baggage handling & transportation to & from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
HURRY! 

SOME SEATS STILL AVAILABLE! 
Questions • call Sween at 3669 School house Too 
In the Brewery 100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 


The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUNDAY, 12 
m-6 m 
5 ACADEMY AWARD NOMINATIONS INCLUDING· 
BEST PICTURE BEST DIRECTOR, & BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS 
3.07 !i. Michica11 .st. 2Bi·780G 

HELD OVER! 

' .(it!O'!EATtl.l 
OPEN 7:00 

coming elections, coupled with the unique capacity of The Observer to reach almost every student each day, leads me to conclude that this omission borders on irrespon­sibility. 
Yours truly, David Albert Mustone· 
Reason to Hope 
Editor 
Deborah de Lorenzo's article "Time for Truce" on Thursday was just great. She took the words right out of my mouth, and presented the situation here quite well. J. Barry O'Neil also put the problem in good perspective, but told me he is pessimistic about the future. 
Though Mother Nature says otherwise, I just can't see females as inferior sex objects. But sometimes it's pretty hard to think that way at a place like ND. Anyway, since the author of "Time for Truce" is a freshman, it makes only more reason to believe that the most mature social viewpoints are often held by freshmen before they get perverted by cursed upperclassmen attitudes and stereotypes. 
This morning I was about to finally give up, but no more. If Miss de Lorenzo is right, and I'm not really alone in my views ( and some other students as well) then maybe there's some hope y~t for this place. If not, there's always the girls back home. 
Let's forgive and forget, 
Tom Harvey 
!108 Grace 


! 
L~ ____ 

Friday, March 1, 1974 the observer 
9 

'Goose'leads East in PHballoting 
WICHITA, KAN.-Three out­standing forwards representing major powers have set themselves apart as the classiest in the East and UCLA's Bill Walton continues to dominate in the West as balloting for positions on the all­star squads in the third annual Pizza Hut Basketball Classic enters its final week. The NCAA and NAIA-sanctioned charity matchup will be held April 1 at the Las Vegas Convention Center. 
In the East, Notre Dame's Gary Novak has pulled slightly ahead 
with 52,237 votes. But Atlantic Coast Conference standouts Tom McMillen of Maryland (50,864) and Bobby Jones of North Carolina (49,713) remain within easy reach of the Irish senior. Balloting will conclude at the nation's 1400 Pizza Huts and participating universities on March 2. 
Walton is the overall voting leader with 88,422 and the real battle in the West is being waged for the No. 2 spot with UCLA's Keith Wilkes and Kansas' Tom Kivisto exchanging places almost · daily. · Kivisto currently heads Wilkes by less than 900 votes. The KU guard has accumulated 57,695 votes to 56,818 for the Bruin for­ward. The Classic will be nationally televised with Notre Dame's Digger Phelps and Arizona State's Ned Wulk directing the attacks. 
The top eight votegetters on each side are extended automatic in­vitations to play in the contest whose proceeds are distributed to 
Irish tracksters host Bulldogs 
bv Pete McHugh 
Let's place the Notre Dame track team in perspective. It has no fanatic crowds, cheerleaders, 
or abundance of scholarship atheletes to insure winning seasons. It labors under a 
schedule involving some of the strongest Big Ten Mid-American and independent track squads. And in addition to these crosses, the team members are called such things as tracksters, thinclads and harriers. 
With all this going against them, it is no wonder that coach Don Faley's charges have a markedly unimpressive 2-6 record this season. Tonight at the ACC, the Irish hope to gain some respec­tability as they host the Drake Bulldogs and try to win their first home meet in two years. 
Notre Dame will also attempt to qualify some of its performers for the NCAA Indoor Championships to be held March 8-9 in Coho Hall in Detroit. Irish standouts Mike Gahagan and Mike Hogan both have excellent chances of meeting the NCAA qualifying standards in this their final home indoor ap­pearance of the year. 
Gahagan, fresh off a record breaking weekend in Iowa, is a definite favorite in the 1,000-yard run. Saturday in Iowa City against the Hawkeyes, he eclipsed the old Iowa Fieldhouse record with a 
Fencing streak stretched to 23 
The Notre Dame fencing team ran its current winning streak to 23 as they defeated Wisconsin, Illinois and Minnesota in a quadrangular 1 bout this past weekend at· Wisconsin. The three victories gave the Irish 15 for the season against no losses and paved the way for this weekend's crucial match-up with another unbeaten ­Wayne State. 
At the present time the Tartars have a 26-game winning streak and have captured 44 out of their last 46 bouts, their two defeats coming at the hands of the Fighting Irish. Wayne State, winner of the Great Lakes Tournament last year, placed third in the 1973 NCAA tournament. 
The Tartars are led in sabre by Steve Donais, two-time junior All­America. Donais, son of head coach Istvan Donais, is 33-0 in dual meets and 45-0 overall. In foil, Australian Greg Benko anchors the squad. Benko, an All­American last year as a freshman, is 44-1 overall and undefeated in dual meets with 30 victories. 
"If we can beat Wayne State this Friday we will have the mark of a really great team," says Irish Coach Mike DeCicco. "This weekend we will have to be more intense and not quite as com­placent as we were this past Saturday." 
Besides meeting Wayne State the Irish will go up against Case Western and Oberlin in their quadrangular bout. The following weekend Notre Dame will travel to Buffalo for their final regular season match of the year. 
2:11.0 clocking, only one-tent~ o_f a Hogan, a sophomore from South 
second off the  NCAA  quahfymg  Bend Marian High School, needs  
mark.  16-1 vault to meet the NCAA pole  
The Last Hurrah  

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::8!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
"Are you playing an April Fool's Day Joke, or are you serious?" This was my father's initial remark when informed him over the phone four years ago, an April 1, that I made cheerleading at Notre Dame. Well.. what started out to be a ·"joke" has somehow ended up being a remarkable sucess story in the life of an almost "has been" cheerleader. 
What is success in terms ofbeinga cheerleader? Some people would probably guess the ability to get everybody cheering the same words all together at the same time. True, but I must attribute mysuccessto much more than screaming "Go Irish" for three years. 
Before I continue, I'd like to mention that the yelling of cheers is basic to being a cheerleader. One must have the enthusiasm and sometimes be able to "swallow your pride" in order to get out in front and act excited when thousands of fans stare at you like you're an idiot. This is often the case too! 
But some people &lJould see themselves when the Irish score, or per­form a vital play. It ilJSt shows that the cheerleaders are an extension of the student body and that we all attend athletic events for the same purpose-to support the team. 
Our task is just to unify this support, and at times, to initiate it when the game is boring. We also provide"entertainment" during time outs just to keep the enthusiastic atmosphere alive. 
What I have just discussed is the essence of what it is to be a cheerleader. In addition, here at Notre Dame it has been a real learning experience since much ofOurtime is spent as public relations people for the University. We meet alumni all over the country, many of them in­teresting and wonderful people. We are also given the opportunity to do manyexciting things such as visiting Disneyland, Universal Studios, and having a horse race dedicated to us at the New Fairgrounds. 
Traveling to away games has been another exciting and rewarding dimension to my cheerleadingcareer. My sophomore year our squad won a national cheerleading award and received an all-expense paid trip to New York City for four days. Junior year we flew to USC with funds we had raised, and ended the season with a trip to the Orange Bowl funded by the University. During basketball season we travelled to New York twice more for a thrilling NIT, which, by the way, made for a great St. Patrick's Day celebration too! 
Senoir year has been an unbelievable experience, cheering for an undefeated football team who are National Champions. Many fun and memorable times were spent in Houston, New York (West Point), Miami and above all-New Orleans. 
Basketball season has also been tremendous-cheering for the team who beat UCLA and broke their amazing winning streak, and who will quitepossiblyend up as the number one team in college basketball too. I am really honored to have been a part of these outstanding "Irish" ac­complishments. 
A final dimension to this sucess story has to do with the great kids who have been cheerleaders with me for these three years. It has been a pleasure working and sharing good times with several great personalities whose friendships will last a lifetime. A few of them will also be cheering for their last game Saturday at ND. Liz Sowada, Charlie Morrison, Rich Rawson and Danny 0' Hara (the Leprechaun)) have all loved it as much as I've expressed in this article, and all of us are appreciative of the good fortunes cheerleading at Notre Dame has brought us. 
JUNIORS 
Last chance for yearbook photos 
If you get your pic­

$10.00 
tures taken now, the fee is $1.00. If you 
-1.00
wait until September, it is $10.00. 
$9.00 

Note the savings, kids I 
You must get them taken before spring break •• phone 3557 
10 charitable recipients including 
Multiple Sclerosis and Sickle Cell 
Anemia. The remaining two squad 
members are named by a national 
media and coaching panel. Pizza 
Hut Classic voting leaders by 
squad and rank: ' 
EAST 
1. Gary Novak, Notre Dame, 52,237; 2. Tom McMillen, Maryland, 50,865; 3. Bobby Jones, 
· North Carolina, 49,713; 4. Marcus Washington, Marquette, 47,882; 5. Len Elmore, Maryland, 45,521; 6. Tom Burleson, North Carolina St., 43,994; 7. Marvin Barnes , Providence, 41,820; 8. Kim Hughes, Wisconsin, 39.901; 9. Brian Winters, South Carolina, 39,418; 10. Phil Lumpkin, Miami of Ohio, 39,402. 
WEST 
1. Bill Walton, UCLA, 88,422; 2. Tom Kivisto, Kansas, 57,695; 3. Keith Wilkes, UCLA, 56,818; 4. Eddie Woods, Oral Roberts, 49,332; 
5. Sammy High, Tulsa, 45,795; 6. Robert Wilson, Iowa St., 43,966; 7. Tommy Curtis, UCLA, 41,219; Lon Kruger, Kansas St., 40,637; 9. Willie Biles, Tulsa, 39,978; 10. Greg McDougald, Oral Roberts, 39,603. 

SMC COFFEEHOUSE *! TONIGHT ! * 
SHEILA RAFFERTY 
PETE SNAKE 
JOHN YAKACKY \DIANE, MINDY EILEEN 
beneath caf ice cream 'n 9:00-1:00 brownies!! 
Now Renting

c 
A one and two bedroomM furnished apartments 
p 
u 
VISIT OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN THE OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE IN 
s 
THE BASEMENT .QF THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
v 
WEDNESDAY 1-5 THURSDAY 1-5 FRIDAY 1-5 
I 
OR CALL 232-5853 
E 
CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT COMPANY 
"apartments with the

w 
student in mind" 


'Tearafter vear. semester I after semester. the College Master' from Fidelity Union Life has oc-cn the most acceptL'd 
most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelitv Union CollegeMaster·· Field Associate m your area: 


1005 E. LaSalle South Bend , Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
, ( CDllegeMaster· 


. Carlton Higgenbotham 


• ·~ • ~ .~ .. -.. -............ ' • ' ' l ' ' ' ....... ., • ' ..... . 

10 the observer Friday, March 1, 1974 
Bengals open on Sunday 
Notre Dame's annual Bengal Bouts have produced a long line of fine boxers. One of the best, and this year's favorite in the 140­pound division, is senior Pat McGrath, a pre-med major and president of the Boxing Club. 
In his four years of competition, Pat has an overall record of 6-1, having won the 135-pound title in 1971 and '72 and finishing second to 
135-champ Larry Semerad last year. With his skillful technique, quick feet and fast, powerful punches, Pat has consistently impressed both the fans and the judges. But he forsees stiff competition this year. As he says, "Steve Duffy, a fellow senior, has looked excellent so far in practice. I certainly didn't lessen the competition by moving into the 140 weight class." 
The McGrath name has long been associated with fine boxers in the Bengal Bouts program. All four of Pat's older brothers have participated here, and with Pat the youngest, this will be the last year fans will have the opportunity to see a "Fighting McGrath" in the Bengal tourney. 
In addition to his fine record as a tourney boxer, Pat has served the Bengal program this year as president. In this capacity he is more or less and "assistant manager" of the Bouts with Director Dominic Napolitano. 
The Bengal Bouts are so named because the profits from the program are used to support the Holy Cross mission in Bangladesh. Pat is proud to note that last year, the Club sent $7,500 to the missionaries. 
The Bouts are funded strictly on donations, ads in the programs and admission fees. 
Pat's high school in Oak Park, Ill. didn't have a boxing program so he has only been boxing his four years at Notre Dame. But that has given him ample opportunity to form some strong opinions about the sport. 

"Some people have a feeling that boxing is a brutal sport, that boxers are out there simply to beat each other's heads in. This at­titude is based simply on lack of understanding. Boxing is a highly technical and scientific sport. Nappy does a great job, and em­phasizes ability not brute strength. 
"We haven't had a single serious injury in the 43 years of the Bengal Bouts program. When people become aware of these things, their attitudes generally change. You learn a lot about sport­smanship, especially when you walk back to the locker room with the guy you just fought." 
After graduation Pat plans to attend medical school. But ironic as it may seem, he feels his par­ticipation in the Bengal program and the charitable funds he has helped raise have prepared him well for this career. 
Bartzen, Ha'Wkins lead skiers 
by Judy Rauenhorst 
The Notre Dame Ski Team wound up its racing season last weekend with individuals bringing home medals in the Eastern Regional Championships of the Midwestern Collegiate Ski Association. 
Pete Bartzen, senior captain, placed first overall in the men's slalom Saturday, to capture his second gold medal of the season. With a first run of 26 seconds and a second run of 22.4 seconds, Bartzen overcame the competition of nine participating colleges. Other finishes in the slalom event were made by team president Bob Hellmuth in sixteenth and fresh­man Steve L'Heureux who placed twentieth. 
In the women's slalom event, sophomore Anne Hawkins finished a strong sixth, closely followed by senior Kristin Meyer in seventh place. Both teams combined missed third place by a marginal two points after Satur­day's standings. 
Sunday's race, the giant slalom, proved to be a tough test for the Irish men's team. The top three racers took spills, including number one man Bartzen who was contending for the lead when his ski flew off. Team members who 1 finished were seniors Bob Williams and Hellmuth, and freshman Gordon Wilson 
With the loss of Bartzen and the 
two other misfortunes, the men 
could do no better than fifth place. 
Meyer wrapped up a bronze medal when she finished third in the women's giant slalom. This was her first award, after coming close all season. Senior captain Coletta Miller placed seventh in the event, with Hawkins finishing in eighth place. In the combined 
Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 

slalom and giant slalom, the Hellmuth said, "I was proud of women racers finished the how both teams did, especially the we~kend finals in fourth place, girls. They came on strong and it losmg third by a mere one point. is no doubt that they are going to be 
After the finals, team president good next year." 
'I--------~~~~==~~ --------­, SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH 
5:15 pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC 9:30am Sun. Fr. James Schilts, CSC 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. James Burtchaell, CSC 
12:15 pm Sun. Fr. William Toohey, CSC 
4:30 pm Sun. Evensong Lady Chapel 
IT ALlAN & BRITISH SHAG & LAYER CUTS 
HAIR & SCALP ANALYSIS Sam BelardineiiH 
Mike McDonald 
FOR APPOINTMENTS 
CALL 
288-6661 
'::losed Monday See Our New MEN'S DEN featuring The Lalell Fa1hion1 In Men'• Clothes 2303 S. MIAMI S. BEND 


"An Evening with 

STEPHEN STILLS and 
his very special guest MARIA MULDAUR" 
Valparaiso Univ.Gymnasium Rf. 30 (half an hour away) Wednesday, March 6, 8 pm $5°0 in advance $6°0 at the door 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number desired, and make check or money order payable to Valparaiso Univ. Student Senate. Send to: Stephen Stills Show, 54 College Ave., Valparaiso, Indiana, 46383. Enclose self-addressed stamped envelope. (No orders accepted postmarked after 
Mon., March 4.) 
.. 
. . .. . . . . . ..... 

Fanatics say: 
GO IRISH 
Bury the Badgers 



---~-----_,........____,________,_______..._,__~ 
_Friday, March 1, 1974 the observer 1 1 .... 
NCAA ticket plans announced 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Ticket Manager Don Bouffard yesterday announced plans for the distribution of NCAA tournament tickets to Notre Dame students. 
Tickets for Notre Dame's first regional game, which will be played in Terre Haute, Ind., on March 9, will be on sale at the ticket office on the second floor of the ACC on Monday, March 4 (1-5 p.m.) and Tuesday, March 5 (9 
a.m. -noon). The tickets to the regional game in Terre Haute will be sold on a first-come, first­served basis, and will sell for $4.00 apiece. 
Bouffard stressed that Notre Dame students will be given first consideration in the sale of tickets to the Terre Haute game, but he also stressed that, because of the limited supply, only one ticket can be sold to each ND student, and that each student will have to present his own I.D. at the time of purchase. 
Arrangements have also been made to cover ticket distribution for the regional and national semifinals and finals. 
If the Irish win at Terre Haute, they will advance to the Mideast Regional semis and finals, which will be held inTuscaloosa, Ala., on March 14 and 16. Tickets for that two-day, two-session series will go on sale at the ACC ticket office <again on the second floor of the building) on Tuesday, March 5 (1 p.m.-5 p.m.) and Wednesday, March <all day). 
Tickets for the Tusaloosa series will sell for $14 each, and the same limitations will be in effect as were in effect for the Terre Haute round: there will be one ticket to one student limit, and presentation of I.D. cards will be required. 
Payment for tickets to the Regional semis and finals should be made by check, and the ticket office will mail the tickets out to their purchasers during the week of March 11. 
Should the Irish fail to advance beyond Terre Haute, payment will be returned to the students-by mail-during that same week. 
The arrangements are much the same for the final round, which will be held March 23-25 in Greensboro, N.C. 
Ticket price for that series <again a two-session set) has been set at $20 per student-ticket includes both sessions-and tickets for the national semis and finals will be offered for sale at the convo ticket office at the same time as the tickets for the regional finals in Tuscaloosa. 
Students purchasing tickets for the Greensboro round may either have them mailed to their home addresses, or can pick them up at the ticket office upon their return from Spring Break. 
If the Irish do not advance beyond the regional finals, payment made for the games at Greensboro may also be picked up at the ticket office upon return from Spring Break. 
Cagers end with Villanova 
(continued from page 12) 

Novak, Dantley, Brokaw and Clay 
way down the line. Adrian Dantley 
although Dwight is still suffering
had a super performance with 41 
somewhat from an ankle he 
points, but without John Shumate, 
reinjured against Ball State last 
Gary Novak, Gary Brokaw, and 
Tuesday. Ifneed be, however, Ray 
Dwight Clay helping out and doing 
Martin and Bill Paterno are 
their jobs he couldn't have done 
capable replacements, and will 
what he did. I hope we can retain 
likely see plenty of playing time. 
this sharpness for our next three games, but it won't be easy." 
The Irish will try to take an The starting lineup for Irish will advantage in th series record, now once again be that of Shumate, at 2-2, starting tomorrow at 2 p.m. 
leers travel to Wisconsin 
(continued from page 12) 

The Edina, Minn. defense tan­dem of Steve Curry and Bill Nyrop has been split up to give the Irish blueliners more balance, Curry pairing with Jack Brownschidle while Nyrop joins Paul Clarke. Roger Bourque and Les Larson will make up the third duo of defensemen with Mark Kronholm going both nights in goal. 
Cagers go Mideast; to face OVC winner 
(continued from page 12) 
talent to do well." 
The Irish, of course, don't have a choice as to where to go, or who to play. Beginning March 9th, and ending who-knows-when, ND's tour­nament course has been clearly charted by the NCAA. 
ND's tourney trail will begin in Terre Haute, Ind., on the 9th, when the Irish will meet the Ohio Valley winner in one half of a double-header which also includes Marquette against the Mid-America winner. 
The two winners in the Terre Haute double-header will then advance to Tuscaloosa, Ala., for the regional semi-:_finals and finals, which are slated for March 14th and 16th, respectively. The winner of the ND-Ohio Valley game will meet the Big 10 winner in one of the semi-final games, while the Marquette-MAC winner will meet the SEC kingpin in the other. 
Then, on the 16th, the survivors will meet to determine the Mideastern representative to the National semifinals and finals-which will be held in Greensboro, N,C., on the 23rd and 25th of March. 
It's a demanding schedule-one which will be preceeded by run-ins with Villanova and Dayton-but it's the sort of schedule the Irish are used to. For the fast-and furious pace of ND's regular season slate has, if nothing else prepped the Notre Dame team for the tournament task which lies ahead. 
"I think our performance in last year's NIT proved that our schedule helps us out in post-season play," said Brokaw. "A rough schedule, one which has its games placed close together, helps prepare you for a tournament like this-it helps prepare you for pressure games." 
If Brokaw was right, if the 73-74 schedule has indeed prepped the ~D 
team for the pressure games of the NCAA tournament, then the Fightmg 
Irish basketball team may be in good position to face the next several 
weeks. 
After all, in an NCAA tournament you rarely find anything but 
"pressure games." 
WSND AM-640 
presents 
Notre Dame Hockey 
vs Wisconsin 
Friday, Mar. 1 Face-off Sat. Mar. 2 7:30pm 
LIVE FROM MADISON! 
In the event the Irish and Colorado College end up tied after weekend action (the Tigers must play home-and-home against Denver), the team with the better percentage of goals-for to goals­against will gain the playoff position. At the moment, the Irish hold a very comfortable 17 goal lead in that department. 
However, if the Irish were to lose twice and the Tigers to split, Notre Dame would find itself back at school waiting for semester break. And if this happens, those pre­season experts will probably be looking for a trade-in on some new crystal balls. 
Both games will be broadcast by WNDU (South Bend) and WSND (campus). 
Drake at Convo 
(continued from page 9) 
vault standard. He holds the Notre Dame school record in the event 05-6) and has narrowly missed the 
RIDES WANTED 
Beauteous Bucolic Oregon Boldly Beckons!! Need ride to Oregon or Washington Spring Break. Randy 234-3254. 
1, 2, or 3 Need ride to S. Fla. for Spring Break. Call 7683. 
Need ride to Long Island Spring Break. Call 8895. 
Need ride to St. Louis area Mar. 8. Call 1619. 
Need ride toW. Va. for Spring Break. Call Pat 8943. 
Need ride to Boston Spring Break. Cal Jim 8549. 
Need ride to Conn. Spring Break. Call Cary 8898. 
Need ride to DC Mar. 8. Call Jeanne 6728. 
Need ride for 2 to Miami, Fla. Call Glenn 8575. 
FOR SALE 
Humidifier, $30. Sears 9x9 
Umbrella tent,  $20.  Schwinn  
Pixie  16", $20.  Call  234-7375  
after 5.  

Sony TC-161-SD Dolby casssette. 1973's best model. List $329. Want $175. Call 3254. 
'70 Pontiac Le Mans , power, automatic, $1175. Cali Gary 259-5894. 
Shot gum, Western Field, Gauge 16, $70; Texas electronic calculator, Sr-10 $75; BSR turntalbe, $55. Ail items 3 mos. old. Call 289-1159 after 6 pm. 
Top quality reel to reel tape decks. Unopened at low prices. CaII 8436 or 8782. 
FOR RENT 
1317LWW 4 rms + bath, 2 students or couple. $110. plus electric. 233-5282. 
1317112 LWW 3 rms. + large Bath, 2students or couple. $110 mo. + electric. 233-5282. 
1319 LWW 7 rooms furnished house, 3 BR, $210 + electric. 233-5282. 
1 BR apt. furnished, heat adn water provided. On bus line. $85 mo. assume Mar-Aug lease. Call 287-1114 or 289-9014. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost green parka at Keenan party. Sunday·\ Call 8659 Larry. 
PERSONALS 
Chobo-21! Big deal, eh? Happy Birthday, Lover. "the Loves" 
Matthew Hey Oregon Bengal-Happy 
22nd. 
Me+ JD. 
Buddy-Wuddy Mon coeur si recommmende a vous. SGE 
There once was a boy named 
'Gator, Who came to our alma mater, His birthday is here And we ail hold him dear So we'll call him properly later. 
Happy Birthday, KEN!! 
Bengali Tom, Float like a butterfly, Sting like a bee, And you'll be a winner In less than three. 
The Head Dad. 
Happy Birhtday Bozo!!! from 5 of the Sensous 6! 
St. Joe Hospital Emergency room wishes best of luck to Bengal Boxer Bob Farrell. See you soon, Bob. 
Tomorrow won't someone please remember my bir­thday?? 
Janet Denefe. 
Huddle Streaker Unmask next time. for me. 
WEO 89 in a row Congratulations!! 
The Walton Bang 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund loans up •o $150 for 30 days, 1 per cent nterst service charge. One day wait. Basement of LaFortune. Hours 11:15-12:15. 
Experienced typsit will do typing thems manuscripts, Call 233-5332. 
SMC Summer School in London travel in Ireland, Scotland, Wales, England, and Paris. May-20Jun20. College Credit available. $795 plus tuition. Professor Black 284-4948 office 
' 272-3726 home. 
WANTED 
Need 3Villanova tix. Cali Torr 7937. 
Need housemate for 2 BR house off Angela. Call Mike 234-8314. 
Need one Villanova ticket. Call 3240. 

::~~~1~~~~ !r~~~~~ ~~~E~~:~ .--:t-r.d-~,--}i-~---Jf-rH-___ 1-!1f:-:::-:::-::::-:::-:~-:~-::::-.:~-::~-::::-::~-::::-~:-:_-::::-:::-:::--::::-;:l-~l~--2-5-6--0-l_l_l_...
-_1 1_{___ 
:F·~~~:~~i;~;!~i~~~:~~ ~jf~f~:,v ~ l~~~Jd:!J ~:: 
competitions starting at 7:00p.m. -..3J:!J·=?.:i-:i'..)i ~ ·~ M · 
1111111 11 11

Admission , as always, is free for ( _·:\', • ·,,\.:· "' agazlnes 
ruwn & 1.:\llllltrv 1·w , .-: 234o .nm.Jdt· 1.uw A t S · . students upon presentation of .hupp"'g " . .,,,., \:~..: _. _ '-·--· ""'"·'"'·'k·•. "'d'""" 46 ~'** r UPP11es 
an ID. ~~--~--~--~~~~~--~~~--------~~---J 
Staff zneznbers 
Join the Observer mob 
buy an Observer T -shirt 


-
Friday, March 1, 1974

12 
the observer 
Notre Dame accepts NCAA bid 
First tournament game set lor Terre Haute vs. OVC winner 
by Vic Dorr 
Sports Editor  
The concept of striving for a goal has always played a Digger Phelps' coaching philosophy.  big part in  
Last year, when Phelps set out with a team which was coming off a  
disastrous 6-20 campaign, he set a modest goal for himself and his squad:  
a break-even season.  The 1972-73 Irish did quite a bit better than break­ 
even. however. They finished the year 18-12, and came within one second of winning the NIT championship.  
This year,with five of five starters returning from that NIT team  and  
with a cluster of talented freshmen as well, Philps set his goals  ~  bit  
higher.  He aimed, from the very start of the 73-74 campaign, for  an  
NCAA tournament invitation.  
And yesterday, for the second time in as many years, coach Digger  
Phelps and the Fighting Irish basketball team achieved season goal.  their pre­ 
That  the  NCAA  would  extend  a  bid  to  the  Irish-ranked second  
nationally and sporting a 23-1 record-came as a surprise to no one, but  
there was a bit of drama as to the "Who" and the "Where" of Notre  
Dame's first NCAA invitation since 1970-'71.  
But the drama and the speculation all ended this morning, just before  
10 o'clock. when a phone call from the NCAA selections committee in­ 
formed NO's cagers that they would play as an at-large participant in the Mideast Regional bracket. Then came a second call, this one  
informing them that their first round opponent in Mideast play would be  
the winner of the Ohio Valley Conference, most likely Austin Peay.  
''This is very satisfying," said the Irish head coach. "We've had this as  
our goal all season long, and I'm very pleased that we've finally gotten  
our bid."  
''Sure I'm happy to get the bid," echoed spry Gary Brokaw NO's elusive junior guard, "because coach Phelps has set this as our go~l ever since the beginning of the season. And the whole team feels pretty much the same as I do; though right now we're mainly looking forward to  
Villanova.  
"We've known we were going to get a bid for the past several weeks, so Coach Digger Phelps and the Notre Dame basketball team were included among the nation's cage 
we're mainly concerned now with Villanova on Saturday, then Dayton on elite yesterday when the NCAA invited them to appear in the Mideast Regional tournament. The  
Monday, and then the NCAA's" Irish accepted the bid, but first they must concern themselves with tomorrow's opponent, the  
Brokaw spoke matter-of-factly about the tourney bid, but two years Villanova Wildcats.  
ago. when he  was a  hot-shooting freshman, Brokaw watched Digger  
Phelps'  first  Notre  Dame  baskerball  team  struggle  through  and leers close at Wisconsin 
agonizing 6-20 season. That year, it was a challenge for the Irish to defeat  
anyone. But now, two years later, it's a challenge for anyone to defeat the  
Irish.  
"It doesn't really surprise me," said Brokaw, "that we've come so far in such a short time. Last year we were buildipg towards a goal, and even in 1971 we were building towards a goal, and that helped all long. Besides, we had that tremendous recruiting year last year, and on top of that, coach Phelps has worked all along to instill a positive attitude in us. "I think that wherever we go now, or whoever we play, we have the (continued on paf e 11) Cagers host 'Nova -1n convo vvrap-up-Senior captain Larry Moody,by Gn·g Corgan who has been a bit of a disap­pointment this season will takeThe Irish close out a most suc­Herron's place at center.cessful home basketball season The other frontcourt players aretomorrow afternoon, and a win freshman John Olive (10.9 ppg)over the Villanova Wildcats could and 6-6 junior Bob Sebastian (9.9make it perfect. ppg). The guards are also bothSo far this year Notre Dame has freshmen, Chubby Cox (11.5 ppgwon all fourteen of its con'tests on and 7.6 rbd) and Joe Rodgers (7.7the convo floor and 20 straight ppg).since an 82-63 loss to UCLA a year The fact that Villanova coachago. Furthermore, with a victory Roland Massimino starts fourtomorrow afternoon, the Irish can freshmen is a tribute to theirequal the all-time record for wins abilities since he has 10 returningin a single season, 24, set in 1958. lettermen from last year's team.That mark also includes the NCAA Forwards John Gaspar, Miketournament victories of that Stack, and Mike Connelly are all season. likely to see action along withIn order to do this, however, the guards Bill Harris and Ed Man­Irish, who are on their way to a ning.Mideast playoff against Austin With the bid they receivedPeay on March 9 in Terre Haute, yesterday, the Irish in turn, are inmust dispose of the Wildcats. And the process of getting tuned for thedespite a dismal 6-17 record, a NCAA playoffs.victory over Notre Dame would "Getting to the NCAA has been assure Villanova of a partly suc­our goal all season long," saidcessful season. ND's head coach Digger Phelps. The Wildcats have had reason "I think we've proved we deservefor encouragement, though. They an invitation. You're never reallylost backcourt aces Tom Inglesby ready for the tournaments but and Ed Hastings from last year's we'reworking on some things thatsquad, and this past season have have bothered us in hopes ofhad to start four freshmen. preparing well."However, Saturday, their top Phelps emphasized the fact thatfirst year player and starting the team has been playing wellcenter Larry Herron is unlikely to together as witnessed against West see action because of a foot injury. Virginia last Saturday.Herron has missed the Wildcats "Our performance against West last five ball games severely Virginia Saturday was an excellent limiting Villanova's offensive team effort," noted Digger. "Iattack. Currently the freshman is thought our players did well all the leading the team with 13.2 points (continued on page 11)and 7.6 rebounds per game.  by John Fineran It has been.a very odd season in the WCHA, and if anyone needed further proof on it, . all he would have to do is look at this weekend's final series between Notre Dame and Wisconsin. The Badgers and Irish were rated one-two in the preseason hockey ratings, both league and national, and many experts ex­pected the series this Friday and Saturday nights would determine the eventual league champion. There was no doubt in their minds, the teams would finish the top two in the league. Needless to say, something was wrong with these experts' crystal balls. Wisconsin currently stands in fifth place, just one game (11-10­5) over .500, battling for home-ice advantage for the first-round of the playoffs. And Notre Dame? Well, the Irish are fighting for their playoff Notre Dame and Wisconsin took the two teams met earlier in the the Badgers will clash again-in a  lives, just a scant point ahead of Colorado College for that eighth and final spot. "This is indeed a do-or-die series for us," Irish coach Lefty Smtih said. "And Wisconsin is in somewhat the same situation. "Both teams have played just. about the same all season long. We have had one good game followed by a lousy one, and Wisconsin has done the same." Not only are the Irish, now 10-15­1 in the league, fighting for that playoff spot, they have to fight for it in Madison's Dane County Coliseum, not a very easy place -­until this year -­to win a game. The Badgers haven't been quite as successful as in years past a home, but with 8,431 screaming fans, they have not been out of the games they've lost, either. Bob Johnson, Wisconsin's coach, has tried everything to shake his defending national champions up, even reverting to bringing in fresh­man goaltender, Mike Dibble, for turns upending each other when season. Tomorrow, the Irish and 'must' ;aeries for both.  the second half of the season. And Dibble, who was recruited by Smith, hasn't disappointed, with a league goals-against just under three per game. "Dibble was an outstanding goaltender in Minnesota's junior system," Smith continued. "Just the fact that he played against the Russians proves what a fine goaltender he is. "Wisconsin's goaltending has always been a problem for us, but not for the rest of the league. That's why we respect the Badgers very much" Dick Perkins, who backstopped the Badgers to a win and loss at Notre Dame in November (the loss snapping the Badgers' then 14­game winning streak), will probably be on the bench for the series starting 7:30 p.m. Friday. The Irish would, however, prefer to see three centers -Dean Talafous, Gary Winchester and Dennis Olmstead -­there, too, but Johnson probably won't extend his hospitality that much. "Talafous, Winchester and Olmstead are three of the top centers in the league," Smith warned. "And they have each hurt us in the past." Notre Dame will counter the Badgers' attack with one which is impressive in its own right. Fresh­man Brian Walsh will center Ian Williams and Eddie Bumbacco, the All-America left wing coming out of a season-long slump with three goals last weekend against Michigan. Pat Conroy will again center leading scorer Ray DeLorenzi and leading goal-scorer Larry Israelson. The trio has been Notre Dame's most-productive and by far the most-consistent line all season long. The third line will have Clark Hamilton at center between Ric Schafer and Jim Augustine. Smith also hinted a fourth line of Mike Tardani-Pat Novitzki-Timmy Byers might also make the trip to Madison. (continued on page 11)  





