------------------~------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------.--~ 
OD The Inside 
Off-campus life 
... page 3 
Enemies list 
... page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 50 Monday, Nov. 18, 1974 
NORML conference claims 

'Pot' laws detrimental 
by Roy Eckert 
Special to the ObseFver 
WASHINGTON, D.C.-Highlighting the third annual conference of the National Organization of the Reform of Marijuana Laws <NORML held here last weekend), NORML Director Keith Stroup said that existing marijuana laws are detrimental to both society and the individual. 
"Last year in this country more than 420,000 persons were arrested for marijuana offenses," Stroup said. "The law enforcement costs to the taxpayer now ap­proach $600 million annually. And the personal costs in terms of wrecked lives and lost careers are impossible to calculate." 
Stroup's speech welcoming some 250 guests at the 3­day conference here this past weekend from NORML chapters from across the country analyzed the goals of NORML. He expressed the hope that the conference would inject "some new ideas, common sense thinking, and honesty" into the question of marijuana laws. 
He cited that 13 million Americans smoke marijuana regularly. He cited current enforcement efforts which list arrests for marijuana laws as accounting for 66.9 per cent of all drug arrests. In addition, marijuana arrests jumped 43 per cent in 1972 over the previous vear. · Stroup referred to columnist Ann Landers, Attorney General William Saxbe, and National Review Editor William F. Buckley, all of whom favor liberalizing marijuana laws. 
"Perhaps William F. Buckley summed it up simplest 
when he observed: 'Pot is harmful, but people 
shouldn't go to jail for smoking it'," Stroup said. 
Criminal penalties failed 
The kevnote address of the conference was given by 
Dr. Robert DuPont, the chief White House spokesman 
on drug abuse. 

"The criminal penalties have clearly failed to prevent widespread use of marijuana," DuPont said. 
DuPont believes that criminal laws against the use of marijuana are unjustified. He emphasized that this stand did not indicate a change from the Ford Ad­ministration's policy. 
To re-inforce that statement, DuPont stated that society should continue to deter marijuana smoking, but "at a lower social cost than the current criminal sanction." He praised the 1973 Oregon marijuana law which makes simple possession of small amounts a civil violation carrying a maximum fine of $100. 
DuPont expressed surprise at the apparent widespread use of marijuana among young people. In a study conducted by his White House unit it was found that 14 per cent of a national sample of 23 year old men smoked marijuana on a daily basis. 
"It is considerably higher than I would expect even for this youthful population," DuPont said. 
Harmful effects 

Quoting recent studies, DuPont explained that marijuana use may be more harmful than previously thought. He noted preliminary evidence linking marijuana use and possible and immunological defects. 
DuPont explained that the active ingredient in 
marijuana, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, travels 
through the bloodstream and concentrates in fatty 
areas of the body. 
"'This means, unfortunately, not just the hips and 
areas we normally associate with being overweight," 
he said, "but the more significant fatty areas in the 
vital organs, including the brain." 
Once in the vital areas, the active marijuana 
ingredient may affect such cellular mechanisms as the 
breakdown of amino acids to nucleic acids, such as 
DNA. 
DuPont said, "Although the conclusive evidence of 
its effect on humans is still not available, the result 
may be a reduction in the capacity of the body to fight 
infection and producing possible genetic mutations as 
well." 
Marijuana use may also affect driving performance, impair short-term memory process and interfere with brain electric functions. 
New Oregon law 
Dr. Thomas Bryant, a Washington, D.C. physician and member of the NORML Advisory Board, cited the results of the liberalized marijuana law in Oregon. He explained that after marijuana was de-criminalized in Oregon marijuana use decreased. 
This study indicated that five per cent of m11rijuana users in Oregon increased their smoking after"the law was changed as opposed to 40 per cent who decreased their use of the drug. The study also indicated that legislation was not a significant factor in availability of marijuana or the popularity of its use. 
The remainder of the three day conference consisted in panel discussions on the medical, legal, and social implications of marijuana law reform. 
In a panel discussion Saturday morning recent medical studies on marijuana were discussed and evaluated. It was noted that some medical claims on marijuana effects fall flat on close examination because of inadequate controls, excessive dosage levels or human bias of the researchers. 
In the Saturday afternoon session, representatives from national media, including UPI, Time magazine and the Chicago Sun-Times, analyzed media coverage of marijuana. The need for objective reporting was stressed because frequently unsubstantiated claims are reported as fact. The conference was culminated yesterday in a legal update of the status of marijuana reform challenges on the federal and local level. The discussion focused on the growing support of conservatives for de­criminalization. 
NORML is a private organization dedicated to the reform of current marijuan~ laws. The Advisory Board is composed of persons from all occupations including former Attorney General Ramsey Clark, Dr. Benjamin Spock and former New York Senator Charles Goodell. 
In Friday night talk 
Edwards claims black athlete exploited 
Hv Fn·d lll'rbst s"taff Rl'portl'r 

Professor of Sociology Harry Edwards addressed a group of approximately 30 people on the subject of exploitation of the black athlete in the Library Lounge on Friday evening. 
F:dwards, who teaches at the University of California at 
argued that the black athlete is exploited in terms of both the individual and as an "agent of oppression" 
According to Edwards. the black is Pxploited on the level of the individual since he is led to believe he can achieve as much as a white athlete who obtains an equal amount of success. "Even after success is achieved, the black is exploited until he realizes that all the valuables available to whites aren't available to him", said Edwards. 
The Professor pointed out that ··when the black collegiate athlete graduates, he doesn't have the samt• opportunities as the white athlete due to the social struc­turP." As an example. Edwards stated that influential alumni normally give jobs to outstanding 
white athletes while this is seldom. 
rlone in the case of the black 
athlete. 
J<:dwards, the author of Revolt of the Black Athlete and Society of Sport. also discussed the fringe benefits available to white athletes such as television eommercials. These opportunities rarely are open to black athletes since the buying public finds it hard to identify with a black 
''The black athlete pays the same or more dues than the white athlete. but he ran't expect the same rewards in terms of money and opportunity." stated Edwards. 
Professor Edwards also claimed that the black athlete is used as an "agent of oppression" in that he is used by society to reflect a stereotyped role that all blacks should follow. 
"Sports reflect the prevailing system of values in a society", said Edwards. 
Edwards went on to say that the prevailing values in our society are those of fair play, patriotism. hard work, competitiveness and numerous other "cultural fic­tions." 
In our society. Edwards says that a successful athlete projects and reinforces the "eultural fic­tions", while an athlete who loses supposedly loses due to his failure to uphold one of the "cultural fictions'' 
The sociologist said that in the llnited States. whites have a monopoly on the power to reinforce the "eultural fictions". The black athlete is used to convey these "fictions" despite the fact that most of them don't hold true for blacks according to Edwards. 
Edwards also stated that the black athlete who doesn't conform to white standards is in trouble. Citing the afro hairstyle and the changing of one's name to an Islamic name as examples, Ed­wards said "these reflect attitudes and beliefs that aren't accepted in American athletics." 
As an example of a black. athlete who doesn't eonform, Edwards spoke of heavyweight champion 
Muhammad Ali. Ali refused to 

uphold a "cultural fiction", patriotism. when he refused to be inducted into the military. For this, Ali was stripped of his title. 
Offering a contrasting in­dividual. Edwards spoke of George Foreman. Foreman, who is remt•mbered for carrying the American flag into the ring with him at the 196!! Olympic Games, was cited by Edwards as an athlete who upholds all of the "cultural fictions''. 
Discussing the recent heavyweight championship fight. Edwards said ''it wasn't a fight between Ali and Foreman, it was a gight between a peacenik and a 11agwaver." 
Edwards also made note of the fact that home run king Hank Aaron was invited to speak before Congress on Flag Day, but no tremendous willpower who are prominent civil rights leader such concerned with making a perfect as Martin Luther King Jr. has ever behind the back pass or with spoken before Congress. perfecting the down and out when 
"It's a tragedy that we have they could be finding a cure for individuals of motivation and sickle cell," stated Edwards. 
IIIIUIUIIIUIIIUIIIDimiUIWIIHIIIIIUIIIIIIHUllliUOUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllfl 

------------------------------------------~-~ -~­
the observer Monday, Nov. 18, 1974
2 

warld briefs 
l'NITEU NATIONS <UPI> -The number of men in the world has increasl·d so fast that they now outnumber women by 10 million and the llnited Nations reports the trend should last through the rest of the century. 
.\TIIJ<:I\S <UPI> -Premier Constantine Carmanlis' New 1>emocracy party won .an overwhelming victory Sunday in Greece's first parliamentary election in 10 years. He appealed to his countrymen to unite to solve the nation's problems. 
w:\SIIIN{;TON <UPI> -Congress launches a three-pronged in­vestigation this week into how much consumers pay -in dollars and l'ents ~ for the many government regulations designed to protect the public and safeguard the environment. 
an campus taday 
2 pm ~~ lecture, "colonialism In developed senegal; past and present," by prof. sheldon geller, leb. lounge. 
5 pm ·~ vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
7 pm ··touch dancing, fran demarko, Iafortune ballroom. 
7:30pm--talk, lefty smith, zahm hall chapel. 
8 pm ~· lecture, "the conflict In northern Ireland" by david thomp­son, lib. aud. 
8 pm --concert, fall choral concert, spon. by smc music dept., o'laughlin aud. 
8 pm --reception, visiting artist edvlns strautmanis opening of exhibition, isis gallery, old field house. 
Isis Gallery ~Opening week exhibition; Edvln Strautmanis; Every day 1-4 pm. Opening-Monday 8-10 pm. 
by Maryfran Hayes Starr Reporter 

"The Notre Dame Heart Fund hopes that this Saturday's cam­paign will be more successful than their last campaign of Sept. 28," stated the chairman of the Notre Dame Heart Fund Campaign, Senior Jim Meehan. 
The Sept. 28 Purdue-Notre Dame game was the first time the North Central Indiana Area American Heart Associating had solicited on a football Saturday. That cam­paign netted $500, which was more than Meehan had anticipated. 
Because of this unexpected 
Erratwn 
The story on the world hunger panel in Friday's Observer con­tained two errors. The average annual runoff of water throughout the world is 100 million cubic kilometers, not kilograms. Secondly there has been an in­crease of over 100 percent, not 10 percent, in areas classified as deserts. 

CAP distributes 300 couzse cards 
hv Kathv i\lills Starr Ripot'lt>r 

Approximately 300 l'ourse cards for popular courses wt>re obtained through the Committee on Academic Progress. according to Gerhard Niemeyer, chairman of the CAP. "There are about 170 students in the program," Niem!.'yer Pxplained. "and every student can have several cards." 
The courst's for which the CAP members obtained l'ards were those that ''fill up quickly with majors," stated !';iemeyer. Howl•ver. he stn•ssed that ad­mitting CAP students into these popular courses is ''not an unlimited process." 
"WP ask the departments t>xactlv how manv l'ards thev are willing to give to ihe <'AP." added Niemt·n•r. "It mav be five for one l'ourst< and three' for another." ThPsP cards are then distributed among the CAP mt>mbers ac­l'ording to l'lasses. With this arrangemmt. studl·nts in the CAP l'an preregistlT before official pn•rpgistration. 
:'\ieml·yer remarked that this i typP of arrangemmt is basically the samP as that for
1.1 
pren•gistration for majors, when·by studl•nts are admitted
',, into courses necessary for their majors before everyone else. 1\:ipmeyer commented that the
I 
treatment afforded to the CAP students could not be termed 
WAITRESSES NEEDED AT FAT WALLY'S 
2046 So. Bend Ave. 
277-0570 APPLY IN PERSON 
"preferential" unless the majors he has no probiPms, but a student program was also called who has mPdiocre grades and who "preferential." shows promise and purpose could 
In describing the type of student be helped through the CAP. accepted into the Committee for Academic Progress, Niemeyer 
Nieml•yer termed the CAl' said that the typical CAP student is "mainly a facility for help," andone who shows "great promise as a stressed that preregistration for ' student. and. while he has a goal. 
CAP students before official
he is not too clear in his goal. and preregistration is one way that thehe needs counseling." lie went on 
CAP aids students with specialto say that a student with a 3.7 
problems.

average would not be accepted if 
************************************ 
i 
i 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. ~ 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 


SENIOR TRIP 
~ ATTENTIQ'j: Everyone signed UDt for Senior Trip to Los Angeles 
..~ Pick up your trip package at : the Senior Class office in the ,. Basement of LaFortune this ~ Thurs. & Fri. from 5 -6 p.m. 
.. 

i 
i
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
* 
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
$ 
: 
* 
: : 
a 
~ 
*
* 
-
Notre Dan1e Heart Fund hopes for success in this Saturday's fund raising cmnpaign 
:.. Each person must pickup his : : or her own package : 
.. * 
~ I.D.'s will be checked ~ **********************************~ 
success, the Heart Fund will campaign again, this Saturday from 10:30 a.m. until the kickoff of the Air Force-Notre Dame game. 
Twenty-one student volunteers solicited at the Purdue game and Meehan is disappointed because fewer have volunteered for Saturday's.Because of the need for volunteers, Meehan has scheduled an organizational meeting for Thurs., Nov. 21 at 6 p.m. 
Nevertheless, Meehan an­ticipates this campaign to be more successful than the last because the soliciting for the Purdue game had to be done off-campus because of a stadium oolicv whereas Saturday's campaigning will be done on campus. Meehan stated that "due to the work and cooperation of Father Daivd Schlaver, Director of Student Activities the Heart Fund has permission to solicit this Saturday on the campus itself." 
The Notre Dame Heart Fund's primary slogan is "Notre Dame is No. 1 and so is heart disease." Saturday's campaign will be sponsored by the First National Bank and station WSBT, sponsors of the previous campaign. Meehan added that Notre Dame's Athletic Department has been extremely helpful with publicity. 


NICKlE'S 
= 
IMoNDAv NIGHT 
Ii FOOTBALL SPECIAL! 
I; 3 F~ $1.00 FROIIA THE OPENING KICKOFF TO I I THE FINAL GUN ! 
!_=_ 
EVERY AAnt..IQ~Av I 
; IV~~ ~· I 
I TELL NO< YOO SAW IT II FIRST IN Tt-E,__os.._.s_ER_VE..._R_ __.I 
IIIHIIHHIIIUIIHIIIIIHIIIIIHIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII...LU• 
c NOW RENTING A FOR SECOND SEIVCSTER 
M 
".\P \ln:\tE~TS WITH 
THE STl'DEST IN 'liND" 
P TWO BEDROOM FURNISHED 
U APARTMENTS 
S Featuring: 
v 
I E 
w 
* 
COMMUNITY BUILDING

* 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 BErnOOM APARTMENTS

* 
AIR CONDITIONING

* 
SWIMMING POOL

* 
DISHWASHER 


* * RANGE REFRIGERATOR* GARI?AGE DISPOSAL* BASKETBALL COURT
* LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 
FOR I~FOR\lATIO~. CALL 272-1441, OR \!SIT THE OFFICE AT 54655 IRISH WAY, APT. 301 FR0\1 1:00-5:00 \10.\'DAY THROCGH FRIDAY. (ACROSS THE STREET FR0\1 FAT \\'ALLY'S!. 
Monday, Nov. 18, 1974 the observer 
3 

First of a two part series 
. Opt~ons for 0-C life discussed 
by J1m Donathen Will the Umvers1ty encourage would receive if property is rented Ave. Talla~•da said the present ten-
Staff Reporter the development of a university to low-income families " he said. dency IS to move on campus 
. , . . . district, which has become su~h a Tallarida said these pr~blems are Apartment completes becaus~ it is ~heaper. Room. and' Editors note: This article IS the common feature of Amencan most visible in section ten of South board m residence halls ranges first of a two part series dealing College life, or are we to attempt to Bend. Over one-third of off-A second option suggested by from $1,084 to $1,224 per year. No with options for off-campus life in disperse our student con-campus students live in the area Tallarida involves constructing accurate figures were available the future. The second part, to be centrations in response to public bounded by Madison Hill Edison apartment complexes close to for off-campus expenses. run in tomorrow's Observer, pressure?" and Rockne streets.' ' campus. Tallarida said the '_'An additional residence hall is evaluates the relationship of these The statement, directed to the Section 10's crime rate is among university could lease out land to gomg to reduce competition for off-options to the University COUP Office of Student Affairs, stresses the city's highest with three rob-private contractors for develop-camp~s housing," stressed report on residentiality. the need to establish priorities for beries and 25 residence robberies ment. Tallarida. "Then supply will grow 
off-campus housing. reported in October. "But those people would have to and. s_tudents will be in a better 
A university district, a com­The Northeast Neighborhood depend on the university for their positi~n to .b~rgain. We could munity of student housing, Present situation Association continues to vocalize life style. Would housing establish a m1mscule Notre Dame bookstores, bars, shops and complaints of excess noise and complexes provide a different type <:ommu;"ity and students would not restaurants is common to many Most of the 1480 undergraduates litter. of life style option?" Tallarida hve as Isolated individuals as they 
college towns. It doesn't exist in living off-campus reside in areas Tallarida Friday outlined op-questioned. are now.:• South Bend, but what shape will where long-time South Bend tions for university policy con-. Tallarida admitted housing .Ta~landa felt a university Notre Dame off-campus life take? residents live. The absence of a cerning off-campus life. complexes would be preferred by di~tnct would cut down on the 
The Off-Campus Administration university district causes a conflict women, who are more vulnerable cnme rate and lessen tension in 
is wrestling with this question in of life styles. Restrict where students live to crime. Over half of the 20 the South Bend community. the face of a rising crime rate and "The primary problems arise women currently living off-"Since students would know student resident friction. through the differing lifestyles and The Director of Off-Campus campus reside in the Notre Dame each other• it provides a more 
An October 22 Off-Campus expectations of the students and Housing said his office could Apartments. This figure excludes protected area from robbery since Administration policy statement residents," said Tom Wilson, restrict students from living in women students from South Bend its difficult for someone to case the asks: "Will we encourage an assistand director of off-campus section ten. "This isn't a practical living at home. places," he said. 
"A university communityapartment complex development housing. "The complaints from solution. The basic things thieves doesn't hamper the life style ofin preference to family unit residents deal with the problems of want are studentcommodities,"he New residence hall the community at large," he said.
dwellings, devote our attention to litter and noise." Wilson said these emphasized. "Thus, the crime Since students are separate fromboth, or concentrate on some third problems result from student rate will follow the students The building of a new residence the rest of the community
alternative?" parties and student bars. wherever they go." 
hall is a third option open to the residents have no fear of student"Are we to concentrate on Father Thomas Tallarida Police crime reports support University. "Notre Dame will life styles affecting their own."
development of more attractive director of off-campus housing: Tallarida 's assertion. Section six, always be a university that goes A !lew h~ll would indirectlyand suitable accommodations for also cited frictions between another area of student con­contrary to the trend," said benefit low-mcome families ac­women in the event that they, like student and low-income families. centration, reported 16 burglaries Tallarida. "While other univer-cording to Tallarida. With' lesstheir male colleagues, either "Proprietors prefer to rent their during October. Section six is sities are closing halls and turning demand for student housingchoose or are forced to live off­homes to students since the rent bounded roughly by Portage Ave., 
the~ into offices, demand for landlords would be forced to rent t~
campus? received is higher than what they Lincolnway West, and Diamond 
housmg here remains constant." families and lower rent rates. 


ND law students propose change in rape law 
By Maureen Flynn deviance. gradations of rape and illicit mission. "Probably the threat of part of their research, the project 
Staff Reporter A very important part of the sexual contact be made according force clause will be accepted, and group studied laws and statutes of joint proposal, stressed Luks, is to the nature, amount and the suggestion on gradation has a all fifty states and the District of that which states, "The Code seriousness of force used. pretty good chance. The spouse Columbia and evaluated proposals
Members of the Notre Dame 
should state that evidence of the exclusion clause may still contain from the American Law
Legislative Research Service According to Dennis Owens, 
the consent clause." Association and the Nationalsuggested loosening standards for victim's past sexual history-is director of the LRS, the project
admissible only if that evidence is that high "This is the critical point," Organization of Women. Th~ group
rape convictions in an appearance group discovered sen­
of prior consentual acts with the tences discourage more juries than added Luks. "It's the old 'good working with the Women'sbefore the Indiana Criminal Law 
Study Commission in South Bend defendant and only to impeach ths sex offenders. "The high sentence woman-bad woman' syndrome. Committee on Sex Offenses is It's difficult to change thinking like composed of Luks, Frese, Owens,
last Wednesday. The group victimm 's credibility." backfires because juries are 
presented its proposals in with the Many rapes go unreported reluctant to give long 20-year that." and 3rd year law student John Women's Committee on Sex Of­because the victim is unwilling to sentences to all sex offenders." "It's unfortunate," said Frese, Moe. They w.ill continue to work fenses of South Bend. Georgia have her sexual history laid open The gradation of offenses and "But it is a very traditional, together to get the support of to public inspection and judgment. gradation Victorian notion." sypathetic senators and
Luks, first year law student and corresponding of 
Another proposal would add an punishments would hopefully The Legislative Research representatives and to disseminatehead of the project, and second 
exclusion clause to the new Penal Service group is composed of information. They are also
year law student Jerry Frese result in more convictions. 
Notre Dame law students who preparing to testify before theexplained the suggestions made to Code, which currently deiines a In addition to the above 
the commission both verbally and victim as "not the spouse" of the suggestions, the two groups conduct research for legislators state legislature when the new bill rapist. The suggested clause would supported the new penal code for and non-profit organizations. Asz is brought up.
in legal brief. 
make spouses liable to prosecution "de-sexing" the law, making it •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
According to Luks and Frese, under the rape section if the couple equally applicable to male and • both the present law and that is living apart and-or one of female sex offenders, and for proposed under the new Indiana them has applied for separate excluding consentual acts between
penal code contain the phrase maintenance or divorce. adults from prosecution."against the victim's will" in their The LRS and the Women's Frese commented on the 

~TONIGHT~
definitions of rape. The LRS Committee on Sex Offenses have robability of the suggestions
members pointed out that the also suggested that further • •
by the com-

inclusion of this phrase places a burden of proof on the prosecutor, 
who must show that the victim was AT THE : 
not a willing partner to the act. Often the only such proof that will •••be accepted is evidence that the victim resisted the attacker. 
The brief presented to the 
SENIOR CLUB~•
commmission states that "the penal code should not require the prosecuting attorney to prove lack 
•

of consent on the part of the victim. • • However consent will and should • • remain an affirmative defense to • •be asserted by the defendant. The • • code should state that resistance to • • force or to threat of force is not • •required." • • 
The phrase "threat of force" is • • not included in either the present or • •
•

proposed penal codes, although it • •• is used in the new section on sexual 
ST. MARY'S FALL CHORAL CONCERT 
COLLEGIATE CHOIR, 

i • • MONDAY NIGHT i • •
MADRIGAL SINGERS, WOMEN'S CHORUS 
Mon.Nov.l8 

i• FOOTBALL i• 
8 P.M. 

O'LaughIin Aud. 
i OPEN 7:00 -MDNIGHT i
FREE 

·············································= 


A~~ ~1Jf 

the observer
~:a~ ~r q.(f ' 
I SIJPP05c OJ 
0 ~~ 

r SHOIJI.[)N'TSAY THIS AS ~ 7HAT5AU YOUR lWUL, 81/T I WISH MITCHcU.. I HAV8 70 SAY. HONOR., o 
Night Editor . Rick Blower 
: liN!? TilE ReSTOF Y(}(J tl/(}(/1../) YOlJ MAY BRIN& 711& JURY 
Ass't Night Editor -Andy Praschak
• STOP II/A5T/N6 ()(J~ TIM~ IINV 7HE JURYBACK Af-I<£/IPY IS 
Layout -Sue Zwick, Kathy Skiba, Martha 
~ 011/N UP 7lJ Y()(JR CI/J'r'WS PBa!URYI IN NOW.. /BACK IN. 
Fanning
~ 
Copy Reader . Pat Hanifin Day Editor -Ken Girard Editorials -Fred Graver Sports -Peggy Lawlor, Greg Corgan Typists . Martha Fanning, Don Roos, Kathy Grace, Rick Huber, Camille Arrleh, Nell VIII Compugraphic Operator -Bob Steinmetz Picture Screener -Albert D'Antonio Night Controller · Dave Rust 
4 

the observer Monday, Nov. 18, 1974 


CIA On 
n••~~mpus 
Concerned students everywhere have become increasingly alar­nwd about the active role that the Ct•ntral Intelligence Agency now plays in world affairs. Students from Japan, Greece, Portugal, South Korea, South Vietnam, and Latin America have all voiced their strong disapproval of the ('lA 's activities in their countries. They've seen what the CIA has clone to other countries of their size. They've seen what how the CIA financed and organized the Bay of Pigs fiasco against the p<'ople of Cuba. They are aware of the CIA's direct intervention in <;uatemala in 1954 when the l'lect£>d President was overthrown, and replaced by a puppet, for tampl'ring with United Fruit prop£>rty. They've seen how CIA ,·ooperation with the big bosses of ITT brought about the bloody faseist coup on the people of Chile. Tht•v are aware of CIA activities in l'olllitries that are on the verge of political and economic liberation and on the road towards a more t'galitarian way of life e.g. the 
l'rumbling elitist governments of Portugal, Greece, Spain, Italy, S. Korea, S. Vietnam, Peru, Dominican Republic, Argentina, and countries of Africa. 
Concerned students everywhere who want their countries to take their own paths to develop themselves on their own terms find that they cannot do so as long as they remain economic and political satellites of the U.S. So long as there are United States investments in countries abroad, the CIA will continue to play an active role in the political life of these countries. They will justify their .covert and clandestine ac­tivities in the name of patriotism and "anti-communism", as well as "protecting U.S. lives and in­terests." And as long as they are given free reign, they will continue to crack down on "subversives" and students whose aim is to liberate their countries from the t>conomic and political domination by the U.S. 
The question Notre Dame 
students must now deal with is how 
far are we going to let the C lA go 
in carrying out their inhumane and 
un-christian activities. As 
students, it seems that we have a 
rluty here to become aware of how 
agencies operating for the U.S. 
~overnment affect the lives and 
future of fellow students and 
peoples in different parts of the 
globe. The CIA-ITT involvement 
in Chile resulted in the military 
take-{)ver of a number of Catholic 
schools and forced many Catholic 
priests to flee the country <some of 
whom are presently here at Notre 
lJamc). In other countries, the 
CIA has operated with huge 
financial interests to insure that 
thE' principle of "socialism for the 
rich. free-enterprise for the poor" again in the Spring semester on 
appeared in the August, 1974 issue
<;lays intact. This has got to stop. FPbruary 28th. 
of Pro Ecclesia (663 Fifth Avenue, 
Today, Monday, November 18, Signed, 
New York, New York 10022).

the CIA is here on campus Conct.>rnt.>d Students of Notre Dame 
Ms. Steinem is the acknowledged 
rt>cruiting members of the 1975 
spokesman leading the proponents 
graduating class. It must make 
for the passage of ERA. She is also 
tormt•r Chilean priests here cringe 
the editor of Ms. Magazine.

to see Notre Dame University 
Fantasy 
"My dear Miss Steinem,

allow the CIA to recruit from her 
As a pre-WW II liberal, a 
graduates after what they did in Dear Editor: 
member of the National Council of 
< 'hile. But why are they here at When one is trying to make a 
Jews and Christians (then so 
by Garry Trudeau 
DOONESBURY 

Box Q 

Notre Dame University in the first pomt It IS strateglcaily sound to place? Is it because Dean of offer a concrete illustration. If a Students John Macheca used to be pertinent example is not available involved m intelligence activities from one's own experience it is not for the U.S. Government in Mexico necessarily wrong to invent a City? <Macheca had the job of plausible one for the sake of informing U.S. diplomats and rhetorical effect. But if the name members of government on "in-of an actual member of the com­surgency" activities in Mexico in munity is employed in the in­the early and mid-'60's.) Is it vention, the result may be either because Mr. Grace--builder of flattery or calumny. Grace Hall and former president of The conversation reported in the United Fruit Company has some detail in the column of Dave friendly relations with the CIA'? Is Son ego in The Observer for it because the trustees and the big Wednesday, November 13, is people at this University have entirely fictional. I believe that friendly relations with the most of the more than 900 students Hockefellers'? mavid Rockefeller-on campus who have been (or are) -Chairman of Chase Manhattan members of the classes for which I Bank, was here on campus last am responsible would regard this year with Hesburg for a lecture on fantasy as claumny. American business.> Why are they 
Sincerely,here at Notre Dame? 
These type of questions have got 
to be asked by all Notre Dame students who dare to call them­selves "christians." Notre Dame students of the past have illustrated their concern for christian ideals and awareness of oppressed peoples throughout the world by demonstrating and organizing marches for various causes e.g. against the Viet Nam war, HOTC on campus, food crisis, CIA recruitment, Cambodian invasion, etc. Our task must now be to start asking what are the priorities of this University? Is Notre Dame po;icy in line with basic christian values? Are we a school and a people allied with the majority of suffering people of this world or are we connected with the few fat cats who have all the wealth and share none? A revealing article appeared in the Observer a while back that pointed to the fact that only 2 percent of the Notre Dame Student Body comes from families of working-class origin. Does the N.D. Admissions 
Office think that only rich people can be Catholic and Christian? Let's let the big people here at Notre Dame know that we are not 



Ms.Fire 
the apathetic and ignorant 
Dear Editor:students that they want us to be. 

To all those misguided souls whoVoice your disapproval and let read Ms. Magazine and have fallen them know how you feel. 
in for the fraud and false promises The Central Intelligence Agency of the so-called "Equal Rights"will be on campus today under the Amendment, I quote Mrs. J. B.
Golden Dome for all those con­Patton's open letter to Gloriacerned. And they will be here Steinem. Mrs. Patton's letter named) and other rather daring organizations (for those times), I am much disenchanted to see that I have helped unlock the doors of opportunity have chosen to accept every advantage (and demand more), and defy every discipline. 
As an Episcopalian, I am ab­solutely horror-struck to learn (in Pro Ecclesia) of your magazine's published remarks on the Blessed Virgin Mary. America's multitude of religions have made it a basic matter of propriety that no person of breeding is critical in public of anyone's religion; your magazine's remarks (by whomever written) place every person on its staff outside social acceptability. 
It is odd, one might remark parenthetically, to see women, who rail against the lack of ap­preciation, through history, of instincts of Americans? 
There is much furious agitation by minority groups and radical women about the 'descrimination' which they feel they suffer. It is time that they recognize their outcasts state is owing not to religion, race, or sex, but simply to the fact that they have chosen to defy normal American standards of moralify, literacy, behavior, and dress. In any western society, the homemakers are the arbiters of who is socially accepted. Those who choose not to conform to social standards must not blame their exclusion on 'discrimination.' They exclude themselves. 
Have you ever read any of G. K. Chesterton's witty, brilliant, delightful essays written prior to and after his conversion to the Roman Catholic Church? They should seem to you, mired as you 

women, here attacking the one organization which from its Divine origin has esteemed women, allowed them great scope, and has adorned Christendom with its most noble architecture in honor of Our Lady, Saints, martyrs, benefac­tors, and authors. Consult the New York telephone directory (yellow pages> under 'Churches: Roman Catholic.' Count the women who are here enumerated; go and visit the buildings which bear their names: churches, of course, schools, hospitals, nursing homes, orphanages. How extraordinary to criticize this Church! No other institution has done so much for women. It honors both maternity and chastity. Perhaps this is the clue. Libs honor neither. Are you happier, more useful, more beloved, for defying the deeply-felt are in the Freudian slough, like a rescue from despair. How can women continue to let the foul Freudian heresies allure them from the beautiful, emancipating ideals which tempt one upwards toward the joys of virtue, and which bring solace and healing and courage instead of disgust, shame spite, envy, and rage? Try a Retreat. See Our Lady as she has seemed over centuries to men and women--Mediatrix, Consolation, and Queen. 
Even my own Church honors her, in great and famous churches. 
His not becoming in you and your friends to mock; the mockery turns on you." 
Sincerely, Mrs. John R. Fawcett, Jr. 
Monday, Nov. 18_, 1974 the observer 
5 

National Council of Churches heads list 

group releases IRS enemy list 

WASHINGTON (UPl) -A citizens' tax group said Sunday it has documents proving the IRS compiled a "central intelligence file" on 11,000 potential White House enemies from 1969-1973, and there is no assurance these files have yet l::jeen destroyed. 
Citing previously secret IRS documents it obtained after a year's legal battle, the group said there were "3,000 groups and 8,000 organizations targeted for for top-secret investigations by the IRS . . . under a plan instigated in 1969 by the Nixon White House." 
It named 99 organizations on the IRS target list, including the National Council of Chur­ches, the Americans for Demo­cratic Action, the John Birch Society, the Congress of Racial Equality, the Urban League, the Black United Fund, the Church of Scientology and the Unitarian Society. 
Former presidential counsel John W. Dean III first testified to the existence of a politically­motivated IRS investigative effort during his appearances before the Senate Watergate committee in 1973. 
IRS comm1ss1oner Donald Alexander subsequently said the IRS would confine its special investigations to tax evaders and resisters. He dissolved the "Special Services Staff" that r;ompiled the con­troversial investigative files and one of the IRS documents disclosed Sunday said all but legitimate tax-case files would be destroyed. 
The Public Citizens Tax Research Reform Group, which released Sunday's report, said the IRS' own audits indicated all but 22 per cent of the 11,458 intelligence files should have been destroyed according to IRS inventories. The group said it tried to find out whether they had been. 
"In a Nov. 8, 1974, response 

Off-CCllllpuslottery .may be put into effect again this year 
by Paul Young Staff Reporter 

A repeat of last year's off campus lottery is again the forcast this year to solve the housing problem created by incoming freshmen, Fr. John Mulcahy, director of Campus Housing, said yesterday. "It worked quite well last year as far as I could see, since anyone who really wanted to stay on campus was able to." 
The objective of the lottery is to put pressure on those students who want to keep both options of on and off camptis accomodations. A lottery. Mulcahy asserted, forces the student to decide and allow those who really want to remain on campus. 
On the use of the lottery, Mulcahy said that any system that forces students off campus is "innocuous", but that this system "which puts everyone in the same boat" is the fairest l'limination process. 
As to the applicability of the lottery to the women on campus, Mulcahy viewed this as very doubtful. "The feeling of the university is that if we force women off campus they will simply choose to go somewhere l'lse rather than Notre Dame," he said. Mulcahy also cited the un­favorable environment of some areas bordering campus where some women might be forced to seek housing as a major drawback to the inclusion of women in a lottery. 
Mulcahy came out strongly for the maintenance of the present ratio of women to men in student admissions for next year. The ratio now stands at three to one 

SMC hosts fire-ceramics festival 
St. Mary's is hosting the first annual "Indiana Fire-Ceramics Festival," the purpose of the festival, which began on Nov. 10 and runs through Nov. 27, is to give local Indiana artists a chance to display their best work and gain some recognition for this in­creasingly popular art form, said Claudia Traudt, co-ordinator of the St. Mary's Art Gallery. 
The show consists of the works of ten of the most outstanding ceramics artists from Indiana. The idea for the Festival originated last spring with Traudt, Sr. Rose Ellen Morissey, Chair­man of St. Mary's Art Department, and Jim Paradis. Miss Traudt said, "The inspiration came as a direct result of the enormous in­terest in ceramics in the Michiana area and the College Community." 
The idea was developed and various artists were contacted during the summer. "All of the preparations took place with the inclusion of students from St. Mary's. He admitted there are some proposals to change the ratio to one of three to two by admitting 400 women as freshmen next year. Such a policy Mulcahy criticized as necessitating either a new dorm or more problems -in forcing students off campus. 
Mulcahy rejected the possibility of using existing buildings on campus as substitutes for a new dorm. seeing no possible openings now. Columba Hall, a past suggestion, he ruled as unlikely stating that at maximum it could accomodate only 100 people and thus would not be worth the reo­novation expense. 
In the past, tactics have been 
employed which have successfully created the room for incoming freshmen, stated Mulcahy. Foremost among these he in­dicated was the phasing out measure of admitting no freshman to a designated women's dorm until the last class graduated. However, no such preparations are in effect now in anticipation of next year's enrollment he stated. "Hopefully, if we hold to the present ratio in admittance we might fit in all the girls without the aid of a new dorm, but it will be very tight." concluded Mulcahy. He proposed the best policy to follow would be to adhere to the present ratio for the next couple of years until a new dorm could be built. 
New record set for foreign students enrolled at ND 
Law School. Three hundred and two in-Taiwan again leads all nations terna tiona! students from 61 1 with 36 students enrolled, down 
countries, a new record for number of nations represented, are enrolled during the current semester at the University of Notre Dame. A total of 319 students from 56 countries at­tended classes last year and 344 from 56 countries the year before. Only 49 nations were represented in 1970-71. 
The College of Engineering as it did last year, leads all Notre Dame divieions in the number of foreign undergraduate adn graduate students. There are 153 students in this College, 128 in Arts and Let­ters, 114 in Science, 80 in Business Administration, 11 in the Fresh­man Year Pro&ram and one in the from last year's 45. Close behind are India with 26 students, Canada with 23, hong Kong with 18, Panama and Mexico with 14 each, and Korea with 11. Nations represented by students this year, but not last, include Austria, British Honduras, Belgium, Liberia, Poland, Scotland, Sudan, Syria, Uganda, West Germany, and Wesxt Indies. 
A total of 13 students come from American territories. These in­elude nine from Puerto Rico, three 
from  Guam  and  one  from  
American  Samoa.  Rev.  Daniel  
O'Neil,  C.S.C.,  directs  Notre  

Dame's Office of International Student Affairs. 
gradually," Sr. Morrissey said. funded by a grant of $250 from the "Invitations were sent out and Indiana Art commission and by a some wrote back, and we wrote grant from the National En­them back, adn finally put the dowment for the Arts. The pieces show together. It's really a last-are being shown at the Moreau Art minite operation." Gallery, open from noon to five 
The Festival was partially daily. 
}*********************************** 
~ 
: 
* 
: 
* ~
.,...
* 
~ 
* 
IVJICHIGAN STREET i ADULT THEATHES t *
X 2 F1LIV5 : X BO~ * .,...
~.I.~ ~ 
* 

X LIVE fLc:x::Jt S1iQW ~
* 

~ 1316 SaJI'H MICI-IGAN STREEl' ~ 
...-....­
to a recent tax group inquiry as to the disposition of the old Special Services Staff files, the Justice Department's chief liti­gation attorney stated that 'it would be inappropriate to reply to this request in the context of the present action.' " 
The tax group said it had used the Freedom of Informa­tion Act and the threat of lawsuit to obtain 41 official IRS documents on the secret tax files, and had received them only after a year of trying. 
It said the documents show that top IRS officials met on July 2, 1969, in response to White House pressure to begin investigations of political ene­mies, "and decided to set up a special task force which would collect information, establish files and key-punch the infor­mation so that the IRS data processing division could use it. 
"The task force was to be an 'intelligence gathering' opera­tion. Besides tax information, 
the  task  force  would  collect  
data  on  each  organization's  
"motives,  its  activities,  its  

attitude, its size and its impact on the general public.' " 
It said one IRS memo described the objective as "a massive central intelligence file" and another cautioned, "we do not want the news media to be alerted to what we are attempting . . . because the disclosure of such information might embarrass the adminis­tration." 
i~}*~~~~l~2~~9.~!~.9'*~!i9!tt~----~----------------------~ 

NOTRE DAME 
FRESHMAN PREREGISTRATION FOR ARMY ROTC' 
Preregistration for the Freshman Army ROTC Spring Session will be held Nov. 14-21, 1974. 
No military obligation is incurred during Freshman and Sophomore years, and by enrolling, you become eligible to compete for a two-year Army ROTC scholarship during your Sophomore year. It pays full tuition, for books and academic fees, as well as $100 per month subsistence allowance. Even without a scholarship, you receive $100 monthly in your Junior and Senior years. 
Army ROTC can offer you a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the US Army Reserve concurrent with your graduation from college with a starting salary of $10,000.00 a year in addition to other liberal fringe benefits. 
If you then decide to leave the Army, you'll find that employers realize that a young graduate who possesses the attributes of leadership essential for Army officers is an excellent addition to their firm. 
The Army ROTC course consists of two class hours per week and is open to all Freshmen at Notre Dame or other nearby cross-enrolled colleges. Course hours can be arranged by telephoning Major Jim Musselman at ~a3-6264 or by contacting him at the Notre Dame ROTC 
building. 
-

--------~ 
.. 6 the observer Monday, Nov. 18, 1974 





CCUM termed great success 
by Hobert Jacques Starr Reporter 

!\lsgr. John F~gan, the Chairman of the Catholic Committee on l'rban Ministry, referred to last wt•ek 's four-day national meeting of CCUM at the Center for Con­I inuing F:ducation as "a great ~uccess. "He added that, "All the goals were met beyond my hest hopes." 
The conference, running from !\:ov. 10-14, attracted 575 social :1etion workers in the U.S. and 1'nnada. All five days were filled wtth seminars and discussions 
•:oncerning economic power and .njustice in America today. 
The CommittPe is a support nt>twork of Catholic priests and religious and lay persons who are im·olved in the social ministry. The goals of the organization are to create a more humane world and to nchieve justice, freedom, and peace in the U.S. and abroad. 'The group's tools include the annual nH•eting. workshops, seminars, and summer institutes where ideas and assistance are shared. 
'The conference centered its attention on the American economic system with the question. "Is the system refor­mabie?" Some of the many problems the group cited as needing solution include ·•maldistribution of income, power, and wealth;" and "social disorder, human suffering, political irresponsibility, and moral confusion." 
With the goal of enabling the participants to clarify their own questions and to understand their experiences concerning economic power and injustice, five ob­jectives were established: 
To elucidate the relationship between the U.S. economic system and daily life both in America and abroad. 
To enable Catholic social action people to relate their work and direct their efforts toward national and world reform for peace and justice. 
To develop new approaches to reform and to disseminate in­formation on economic issues to church members. 
To enable particpants to assume positions of leadership in the evaluation of justice and injustice in American society. 
To give new direction to 
CCUM, its board and its advisors in order to meet the concerns and priorities of members working in 
Nixon's medical status IIKIY prevent testimony 
SAN CLEMENTE, Calif. (UP!) -Herbert J. Miller, Jr.. Hichard Nixon's attorney, re~ portedly visited the former president during the weekend to see if he would submit to examination by a court appoint­ed medical panel. 
Miller told U.S. District Court Judge John J. Sirica he would report Nixon's response to the Washington court by Tuesday. 
The former president's an­swer could play a major role in the outcome of the Watergate eoverup trial. The physical examination would determine if Nixon is well enough to give testimony, either in person or by deposition. 
Nixon's doctors who treated him at Long Beach Memorial Hospital said last week such an examination could prove stress­ful and raise Nixon's blood pressure. 
Nixon left the hospital last Thursday after a 23-day stay and at that time his physician, Dr. .John Lungren. said he suffl'f('d from "labile hyperten­
sion."  or  fluctuating  blood  
pn•ssure.  
Ii<·  said  the  former  presi­ 

dent's blood pressure shot up t·ven with non-physical stress, "Ul'h as conversation and pro lliPm solving. 
Ill-said the planned medical l'hl•ck-up was not necessary and II'!JUld be a "stressful situation" which could cause a rapid rise in his blood pressure. 
In Washington, the Watergate defendants have said Nixon's testimony is indispensible to their cases. 
Judge Sirica appointed the three-doctor team last week at the request of attorneys for former presidential aide John 
D. Ehrlichman. 

Dr. Lungren had said it would be several months before Nixon would be well enough to give testimony at the trial, which is expected to be over by Christmas. 
Dr. Charles A. Hufnagel, one of the court-appointed doctors, told Sirica he would not proceed with the examination until there is assurance Nixon eonsented. 
Nixon was pale and shaky, and 15 pounds lighter when he left the hospital Thursday. He underwent surgery for his phlebitis condition and subse­quently went into vascular shock. 
the field. 

The accomplishment of the first four goals and the promise of the fifth one's success, Egan said, was due to the diverse and large national representation at the conference. 
There were people from thirty­two states, seventy-four U.S. dioceses, and six Canadian dioceses present. The male­female ratio was fifty-fifty. Egan stated that, "There was also good minority representation," but added that "it was by no means adequate." 
A large number of national and regional leaders were present at the conference to lead the discussion and seminar groups. Included were Dr. Richard Burnet, the Co-Director of the Institute for Policy Studies, Washington, D.C., Dr. Lyle Schertz, deputy ad­ministrator of the Economic Research Service of the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, and others. Many archdiocesian and regional program directors were also speakers and participants. 
"The fifth goal of the con­ference," Egan explained, "can be measured only in the future because it concerns im­plementation of the material ex­changed at the meeting on the local and state levels." He said the first part of this fifth goal was to "raise the consciousness of the people here to aspects pf the economic sustem we thought are of key importance to millions of people." 
The knowledge gained by the participants is to now be shared and exercised across the country. On the regional and state levels, permanent programs and net­works will be established to affect the changes brought forth in the conference. 
As to the future of the Com­mittee, Egan hopes to expand it beyond the realm of Catholicism. Currently there are only a handful of Protestants in the loose-knit ministry. To realize his end, he sees either an expansion to include more persons of the faith, or the parallel development of a similar organization for the Protestants. 
However, Egan stressed that despite possible expansion, the Committee will remain the same in goals and methods. He said that it would not become a lobbyish group nlthough state and local bodies might do some lobbying. He cited the fact that the conference passed no resolutions in showing that the 
Ministry is unique. "It will remain a network of support, ideas. and training," Egan con­eluded. 
Dean of (;eorge Washington School of Law will be speaking 
•

1n room 1 04 of O'Shaug . 7:30pm Mon. Nov. 18 "Study of Law in D.C." 
FAT WALLY'S 
EL-ECTRIC BEER JOINT 
IS COMING! 
2046 SOUTH BEND AVENUE ACROSS FROM THE 
CAMPUS VIEW A PA RTM ENTS 
*CAC ONEMA '75 * 
PRESENTS 
' 

KNIFE IN THE WATER 
ROMAN PaANSKJ'S FIRST FILM 
TUES.-V\ED.  ADM. $1.00  
8 • 10 PM  
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM  PATRONS GRATIS  



Tom McMahon AI Razzano General Aqenl Agent 

'learafter year,Isemester after semester, the CollegeMaster from Fidelity 
Union Life has been the most 
accepted, most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegeMaster Field Associate 
in your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
-~· 
~.; 
,­
" 
~ 

G)llcgcMastcr
Phil Teah Agent 


Monday, Nov. 18, 1974 the observer 
7 







NDicers split with Denver 
by Bob Kissel 

When the Notre Dame icers want to play hockey, they can skate with any team in the WCHA. But when thf>.y are not in the game, it sure shows. Notre Dame played Saturday night winning 5-3, but did not Sunday afternoon, losing 7-4. 
In Saturday's 5-3 win, the Irish came out flying, knowing the Denver series to be crucial to their league standing. The team's forechecking and backchecking efforts paid off at 2:01 of the first period when Brian Walsh got his first of three goals in the opening game. 
The play on Walsh's goal started deep in ND's own zone. Paul Clarke broke out from his net and passed to Alex Pirus at his blue line. Pirus made a nifty move around a Denver wing, :::kated the puck into Denver's zone, and took a good backhand on the Denver goaltender, Bob Lieg. When Lieg did not control the rebound, 'Duke 
..
Walsh was there to flip the puck 
home for the 1-0 lead. 
After Walsh's goal, play slowed 
down considerably, with both Brian Walsh and Alex Pirus start two on one break against Denver Saturday night. The Irish split 
teams alternating offensive with the Pioneers winning 5-3 Saturday and dropping a 7-4 rtecision Sunday afternoon. 


rushes. Denver evened the score at 14:43 on a goal by Bob Pazzelli 
the assist going to team captain with the assist to senior Mitch 
Paul Clarke. Brandt. Denver took a 2-llead at 
Denver's Gary Bohonus violated 

an unwritten rule of hockey Lindsay Thomson. 
18: 17 on an unassisted tally by 
midway through the period by hitting goalie Moher. Im­

ND tied the score just under the wire at 19:56of the opening stanza. 
mediately after Bohonus ' quick jab , Tim Byers and Les LarsonBrian Walsh notched his second were on top of the Denver skater,goal as a result of persistent fore ­instructinghim as to the specificchecking by Clark Hamilton and 

rights of a goaltender.

good positioning by Alex Pirus. 
Mark Olive notched his first goal Pirus pulled the string from just of the season for the winner atinside the right circle and Walsh 12: 13 of the last period. Liegflipped the puck off the rebound for blocked Allen Karsnia's initialthe equalizer shot off the faceoff, but Olive wasThe second period featured five in front to give Notre Dame the 4-3minor penalties, a Denver goal, lead.

and the emergence of NO's win­Pat Conroy put the game awayning momentum. Denver scored a at 18:52 when he showed more ofshorthanded goal at 17:43. Dave his individual offensive fireworks. 
Tomassoni somehow managed to Conroy left most of the Pioneersbat in his own rebound, despite befuddled behind him before heJack Brownschidle being on top of beat Lieg on a backhand into thehim, while both players slid along 
corner of the net .

the ice past Moher. The shor­"In the second period we startedthanded goal seemed to awaken being more physical, which helped the Irish and they picked up their us a great deal," explained Coach tempo of play. In the second Smith. "That power play goal atperiod, Lieg made 14 saves, while the beginning was a big goal which 
ND netminder Len Moher stopped five shots. · 
we needed and Denver didn't." In Sunday's game, the firstIt took but 14 seconds of the final period, as with the whole contest,session for Notre Dame to tie the was a matter of Denver takinggame. On the power play, Brian advantage of Irish mistakes.

Walsh got his second career hat Denver tallied three unansweredtrick. Walsh put in a slapshot in goals in the opening stanza.
from the right special spot, with Gary-Bohonus scored on a rebound at 4:04 when he was left alone in front of Irish netminder
Irish edge Panthers 
John Peterson. Brad Carefoot got an unassisted score at 5:28 when an Irish wing lost the puck
(continued from page 8) 
wheeling in front of his own net. 

quarter to win. I am very proud of Denver made it 3-Q on another our team and the way they came unassisted goal, this time by Dave back to beat a darn good football Robinson at 7:54, when the ND team." defense did not cover the rebound "Wayne Bullock gave a great off the first shot. performance playing hurt today. John Peterson was given little He goes in there and just bleeds help in making his 20 saves, while yardage. He gets itwhere it isn't. Lieg was tested on only 3 shots. He hurt his shoulder during the Denver continued their op­game but he came back to lead us portunism in the second period. in that final drive." Lindsay Thomson scored at 4:15 on 
"I was hurt early and the a mixup in the Irish defensive coaches didn't want me to go back coverage. Chad Campbell scored in," said Bullock, "but I wanted to an unassisted goal at 8:05 when he and they said to go ahead. The 
offensive line was just great today, and they have been all year. That's how I was able to get back in and pick up that yardage in the fourth quarter." 
Bullock, as he has been all season, was the star. Ara is grateful for that rerun. But these close games are getting to be too much. 
"Two weeks ago I told the team they were definitely causing my hair to turn gray," he said."Today I told them they're going to make me a replacement for Kojak." 
"MIX with MAX'S LIQUOR" 
BEER 

f.lox's lincoln\Wy East liquor Store
WINE 

kroos the street from l!t·l*l•l;l Playland Golf Course Phone 289-8652 1740 L W. E. 
professionals. 
For further information call: 
2 3 3-3 1 0 4 
IT'SGOODTO HAVE 

M0NY 
IN YOUR FUTURE 
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Irish Lampoon needs articles and cartoons. Call 272-8724 between 9 & 
11:30 pm_ 
Wanted: used short wave radio. Tim, 232-4927. 
FOR SALE 

For sale: 3-speed Schwinn, one year old. Call Brent, 8301. 
NOTICES 

Good opportunity for enterprising students. Established carry-out pizza business plus living quarters and apartment. Age and illness forces sale. Owner will carry contract with good terms. Call Sharon Deering, 289-1394 -First Realty, 282-2337. 
15 percent off on all merchandise, now until Christmas. Expert repair, quality guitars, banjos, etc. Sunflower Music Shop, 632 Portage Ave. 
Records now on sale at Golden Dome Records, 804 Flanner, ph. 1487. New Moody Blues, $9.98 list, reg. \7.70, now S7.20 total. New Elton John (just released), $9.98 list, reg $7.70, now $7.20. New Loggins & Messina $6.98 list, reg $4.55, now $4.25. All YES albums on sale. Also every Fri is ladies day. $.50 off on all double albums, $.30 off on all single albums. 
Phillips GA 212 electronic turn­table (new) Tharens TO 125 AB MKII with B&O Sp 12 cartridge· 2 new walnut Advents. Call 1487. 
World Book -"used much, stimulating, essential . . .'' Revised, inexpensive. Call Larry, 289-5407. 
Students: buy your Stereo equipment at Golden Dome Reocrds, 804 Flanner, ph. 1487. 20­40 percent off on all brands . Ad­vent, AR, bose, Dual, Garrard, Marantz, Pioneer, Sony, and much more. Over tOO name brands at big discounts. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros, Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to ND-SMC student, faculty, and staff do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0181. 
Attention Louie's has a pool table, pizza and great beer, But don't take our word for it · come see for yourself. Louie's, 744 N. NO. 
FOR RENT Room $40 month. Near rides, privacy, kitchen. 233-1329. 
Room for rent: excellent location and conditions. Call 232-4545. 
PERSONALS 
The citizens of Minnesota wish Carolyn a happy birthday. Please don't foreclose on us. 
San Clemente sends its birthday greetings to Carolyn. Please dont't call in the loan. 
Win Schulyer's wishes Carolyn the best of luck on her brithday. Love your business. 
Happy 20th: 
Love, 
The Better Half of the Dynamic Duo 
Because of popular demand, Madame Fifi's will offer horses, sheep, and chickens. We aim to please. 
To the Little Guy and Poopie: Happy ioint birthdays. Can 1come in the room now? 
Voyeur Roommate 
The Budweiser Brewing Company and the American Association of Alcoholic Beverage Producers wishes to congratulate Carolyn on the achievement of her 20th bir­thday. We love your business. 

I I I l I 
l l l 
j I I 
1 
1 l 
1 
I 
I I I I I 
I 
l 
l ~ 
l 
l 
j 
1 
l 
~ 
l 
l 
~ 
j 
Notre Dame did not quit despite the 5-Q deficit after Campbell's goal. Paul Clarke made a beautiful individual effort, skating around the entire Denver defense set. He put in the backhand at 13:17. 
Fifty-three seconds later Brian Walsh hit linemate Alex Pirus with a long pass on Denver's blueline. Pirus skated in alone on Lieg, faked him down to the ice, and easily put the backhander in at 
14:09. In the period Bob Lieg had 16 saves, while Peterson turned aside eight shots. 
Les Larson narrowed the deficit to 5-3 on a hard wrist shot from the left faceoff circle at 4:11. Assists were given to Kevin Nugent and Pat Conroy. 
Denver tried to put the game away at 5:42 on a goal by Bob Pazzelli. Again the Irish did not quit, though down 6-3. B_rian Walsh scored on a rebound at 10:46 after Alex Pirus led the Irish rush into the Denver zone. 
The Pioneers put the game away 
for good at 18:56 on Chad Camp­
bell's second goal of the afternoon, 
for the 7-4 final score. John 
Peterson had seven saves in the 
period and 35 in the game, while 
Lieg turned away 9 in the period 
and 28 for the game. 
"I am always pleased to split on 
the road," commented Denver 
coach Murray Armstrong. "We 
handled the puck much better 
Sunday and defensed better in the 
earlier going." 
"I am surprised that Notre 
Dame is playing so well this early, 
they have a lot of new faces," 
added Armstrong. "Notre Dame is 
a big team, one to be reckoned with 
as the season gets older." 
"We reacted defensively like it was a 7:30 game and we were still in our 2:30 pre-game nap," ex­plained Coach Lefty Smith. "We let Denver walk in on John !Peterson) all game and you can't expect a goalie to stop those rushes every time." 
"Denver played good fun­damental hockey," added Smith. "Our kids played hard up to the very end, I hope they come back next week with the same attitude to go on out and do the job." The Irish are now 2-4 in the WCHA, (4-4 overall) which puts them in seventh place. Next weekend the Irish travel to icebox country­Grand Forks--to play the Fighting Sioux of North Dakota for a two game WCHA series. 
Mony Present razy Record 
CLAPPING. The Duration Hecord for continuous clap­ping is 14 hours, 6 minutes by Nick Wiley, 18, and Chris Floyd, 17, of England on December 13, 1968. They sustained an average of 140 daps per minute and an audibility range of at least 100 yards. 
Source: Guiness' Book of World 

Bob Roemer, Class of '73 


pn•c
• 
Life insurance tailored t<. fit the unique needs of students and young 
the observer Monday, Nov. 18, 1974 
-=---~....:....:::........= 


Bullock stars; Irish squeak by Pitt 
Fourth quarter touchdown plunge by Clements erases 10-7 Pittsburgh lead 
his offensive line, Wayne "the
h_\· (;n•g ('nrgan 
Train" dashed for 124 yards in 25
Sports Editor 
carries and accounted for 33 yards in the crucial fourth period scoring 
The script was the same. And drive.
again, the ending was a happy one: Bullock had Pitt coach Johnny Notre Dame 14, Pittsburgh 10. But Majors' support. "Anybody thatif it seems that Irish fans have seen does not think that Wayne Bullockthis show months before summer was the difference in the game isreruns usually begin, they can't crazy. He is the finest fullback wefault the network. As usual, 59,075 have ever faced."
people came to watch. 
The difference in the score came
In TV jargon, Saturday's 
as a result of Tom Clements' three­ballgame against the Pittsburgh yard touchdown plunge with a little!'anthers. could very easily have under threee minutes to play in the p:tssed for Michigan State, take ballgame. The six-pointer erasedfour: Hice. take three; or Navy, a 10-7 Pitt lead and capped a 12take two. And none would win play, 55 yard drive. 
an Emmy. 
The Irish started from their own 
Pespite :J74 total yards and a 45 after the Panthers were forced typically superlative effort by the to punt and immediately went to :\otre Dame defense in allowing work. Clements got three on a !'itt 198 yards, and Tony Dorsett a keeper, and AI Samuel five before nwre Iii, the Irish again found it Clements kept for nine more. twarly impossible to score. Like Bullock picked up five and after a 
l\iichigan State, Hice and Navy, four-yard pass to Samuel, Waynethe Irish were victims of their own smashed for 10, seven, and two mistakes and while the excitement vards down to the Pitt three. of a 14-10 win may cause the Clements then scored and Dave Nielsen ratings to skyrocket, it Heeve added the extra point giving 
('auses AP's and UPI's to plum­the Irish a four-point lead. 

thers right back. Three medium-Pittsburgh did manage to take a ever scored against Notre Dame.
m<"t. As it turned out, the extra point

l<'ortunately head coach and made the difference. Quarterback range pass completions to 10-7 lead into the fourth quarter, The three-pointer by Long set the wingback Bruce Murphy, and a n however. Notre Dame punter stage for NO's fourth period
Pxecutive producer Ara Par­Bob Medwid, replacing the injured 18-yard pass to split end Rodney Tony Brantley got off a 25-yard

seghian had his candidate for best Bill Daniels, who sustained a knee comeback. Up until that time, the 
Clark brought Pitt down to the NO

actor. Wayne Bullock, in top form. injury and will be lost for the rest punt in the second quarter which Irish had been their worst enemy.
21 yard line with 28 seconds to play. Larry Felton returned to the ND
With some supportive help from of the season, brought the Pan-Late in the first period Bran­
Medwid's next attempt to 23. Medwid then hit Murphy for 13 tley's punt was blocked and Pitt Murphy was incomplete and a and Dorsett ran for seven, and on took the ball all the way down to second pass to Karl Farmer was fourth and one from the one the one before Dorsett fumbled and batted down by Reggie Barnett on Medwid rolled left for the touch~ Randy Payne recovered. And the goal line. Medwid's last ditch down. The score came with 1:19 after a drive which started at his effort to Farmer, with five seconds left to play in the half and sent both own one yard line, Bullock fumbled Extra Points left, was knocked away by free teams into the locker room tied at the ball away to Kelcy Daviston on safety Randy Harrison. 7-7. The Irish had picked up their the Pittsbutgh nine. A Panther 
"We were in a man-to-man first tally early in the opening punt later Clements was in­coverage," said the freshman period on an eightplay, 54 tercepted by Daviston, and from Hammond Ind., "and I just yard drive The TD came on a three Clements' fumble in the third loosened up and played a little yard Clements to Pete Demmerle period led to Long's field goal. deeper." pass after the two had combined "We had bad field position all 
The Irish defense didn't loosen for 35 yards on the previous play. day," said Ara, "and of course up the entire afternoon. The front mistakes contributed to it on a four of Jim Stock, Kevin Nosbusch, The Panthers got their tenth 
number of occasions. But this is· 
Mike Fanning and Steve Niehaus point with four seconds to play in not the first time Notre Dame has 
stopped Dorsett and the Panther the third quarter on a record­fallen behind this year. It's not the running attack in its tracks, and setting 52 yard field goal by Carson first time we have come from 
Niehaus even got credit for a pass Long. The ball hit the cross-bar behind and scored in the fourth 
broken up when he knocked down and bounced over giving Pitt Thy knitted frame, thy springs and valves, the tremulous Dorsett'soption pass to Daniels. placekicker the longest field goal (continued on page 7) 
twinkle of thy wheels, Thy train of cars behind, obedient, merrily following, Through gale or calm. now swift, now slack, yet steadily 

Irish cagers op*en season
careering: Type of the modern--emblem of motion and power--pulse of the continent... 

-•
Walt Whitman, "To a Locomotive in Winter" 


with 92-83 exhibition Wln
There is something about Wayne Bullock carrying a football that in­spin•s the poetic imagination. As he rambles through a defense, as he 

by Bill Delaney "Dwight is going to fill Broke's throws with :23left gave the Irish a mPthodically drives for a first down, as he drags defenders for an extra 
role, and will be counted on to give 92-83 lead, and the victory.yard, Wayne "The Train" displays a certain style, a certain rhythm, a Digger Phelps and his Irish us a scoring as well as rebounding "I really feel satisfied with my l'ertain dramatic effect. At 6-1, 233 lbs., with his legs churning, his head Cagers opened their 1974-75 season punch. Ray (Martin) is in play tonight," commented Crotty. down, and both arms around the ball, he is simply awesome. on a happy note Friday night witha Dwight's old spot, and will be more "It takes a while to get used to Saturday against Pittsburgh, on the cold, slippery turf of Notre Dame 92-83 exhibition win over the responsible for bringing the ball playing actual game conditions Stadium, "The Train" was in high gear as he chugged for 124 yards in 25 Athletes in Action before a crowd upcourt," explained Phelps. again, and tonight helped attempts. Playing with a bruised shoulder and a bad ankle, he accounted of 4,109 at the ACC. Although the The game itself was a seesaw everybody to get rid of their jitters. for half the Irish ground game and caught three passes for 26 yards. On game was only an exhibition, this battle, with the Irish holding a Our play in the second half shows Notre Dame's winning drive, he carried the ball five times for 32 yards first performance by Phelps comfortable lead throughout most how far we've come since October, while converting on fourth-and-two and third-and-six situations. 'youthful' Irish left him pleasantly of the first half. A solid per­and I do believe we're going to be a llis outstanding performance, on an otherwise lackluster offensive surprised. formance by sophomore forward comer." afternoon, was consistent with his play all season. As Pittsburgh found "We were definitely pleased with Adrian Dantley keyed the Irish 
Adri~ Dantley, who finished up
out. Bullock has become the bread-and-butter of the Notre Dame attack. the kids effort tonight," said a attack building leads of up to seven 
with 33 points in 39 minutes, agreed For the year. he has rushed for 815 yards and a 4.2 average. His un-happy Phelps after the game. points during the half. The with Crotty about the importance spPctacular thrusts off-tackle dives have become crucial on goal line, "Our press and four-corner stall in Athletes came back to tie the score of the exhibition. "Sure, it was 
lhird, and fourth down plays. . . the second half really worked well, at 35 behind the shooting of Ray only an exhibition, but we've beenAfter the game Saturday, Pittsburgh coach John MaJors called and against a team that had the Hunple, but then Dantley took
1 playin,g each other since October ,
Bullock "the finest fullback we have ever faced." Panther halfback Tony size to their advantage I think we charge, hitting three quickDorsett echoed his coach's sentiments, "Bullock has to be one of the best did rather well." ' baskets, and Toby Knight's free and playing against new faces fullbacks in the country. That guy is big, strong and tough. Whenever Phelps started the players he has throw with :01left tied the score at really helped us out a lot.We came tht•y need the big yards, Bullock always seems to get it for them." been working with all fall. Dwight 47 as the half ended. up with the big play when we 
That Bullock is receiving such accolades and All-American recom-Clay and Ray Martin were the needed it, and that's what it's all 
The Irish came out in the second 

mt•ndations is not surprising. In high school, he was merely all-state in guards, Billy Paterno and Adrian. about. Our rebounding needs a 
half with their full court press,

football, Virginia's heavyweight wrestling champ, and holder of the state Dantley the forwards and Peter' little work, but we have some time 
forcing the Athletes into several

shot-put record. Last year, his eleven touchdowns led the Irish in that Crotty was at' center. to work on it before the opener.
turnovers. Dantley and Paterno

l'Htegory. So far this seaso~, he's ~et a Notre :Dame record for rushing "Our big concern is reboun-The main thing though, was the 
put Notre Dame ahead with their

attl'mpts, and tops the team m runnmg and scormg. ding, and I was impressed with chance the rookies had to get in 
defense, and Dantley's 20-foot

With the injury and then suspension of Art Best, the less than i":l-Peter's work," said Phelps of his and blow off their jitters. We're 
jumper from the top of the key

pressive performance of AI Samuel, and the slow recovery of Enc senior co-captain. ''He played 29 going to need them pretty soon, so 
made the score 56-54. Irish.

l't•nick, Bullock has become the mainstay in the Irish backfield. For the minutes and even though he wasn't anytime they can get now will help most part, his yards have been tough ones. Notre Dame's outside running getting all the rebounds' he got With 6:45 left, Mike Hopwood's us Ia ter in the season.'' gamP, far below last year's standards, has not been setting up his seven and made things happen in rebound basket momentarily put 
With the season opener against
familiar strai~ht forward charges. t h e o f f e n s e . ' ' the Athletes ahead 75-74, but Clay's ~a_Ipo I,ess than two weeks away,As the Irish approach their last two games against Air Force and Clay, Notre Dame's other co-j jumper and Paterno's bomb from Fnday s game showed Digger that SouthPrn California, it is apparent t_hat they will_ nee~ more. tha.n just captain· had taken over Gary 22 feet out gave the Irish a com­his team certainly wants to play.
Bulloek-up-the-mtddle for any natwnal champiOnShip aspirations. Brokaw's offensive spot, and fortable lead. Their performance "Don't be surprised about us,"
llopefully, a revitalized Penick and Samuel, or even a pious Best, might contributed 19 points and six of the four-corner stall was per­warned Crotty. "We're going to be fill that void. In the meantime, Notre Dame better pray that their rebounds in 33 minutes for the fect, forcing the Athletes to come tough this year-no doubt about ·'Train" doesn't break down. Irish. out and foul. Martin's two free it." 







