On The Inside 
Action Express ... page 3 Novak speech .•. page 11 


Vol. IX, No. 52 
Orange Bovvl tix sale set 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 
One thousand Orange Bowl sideline tickets will be sold to students at $8.50 this year. Exact time, plan and pr_ocedure. of the sales will be announced th1s mormng by Ticket Manager Don Bouffard. 
Fr. Edmund Joyce, University Executive Vice-President, said last night that one of the plans being considered would involve selling tickets December 5, 6, and 7 on the second floor of the A.C.C. from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. with a limit of one ticket per person with I.D. He said it has been proposed thatif there is a demand for more than the 1,000 tickets, end zone seats will go on sale for $7.00 until the demand is satisfied. 
Joyce also said that although ther~ is not an unlimited supply of the end zone tickets, it is not expected that the tickets will run out. "I don't anticipate the demand to be that great," he said. 
"Each school is alloted a total of 15,000 tickets," stated Gil Sloan, director of the Orange Bowl Committee. "Normally the NCAA allows each school 12,500 tickets, but this year both schools agreed that they could sell more seats, so the number was increased to meet the demand. It's up to the schools themselves to decide how to allot the tickets." 
There are two kinds of tickets: end zone tickets selling for $7.00 and bleacher s~ats along the sidelines costing $8.50. The f1rst shipment of tickets was sent to the schools the week of November 11, following the Nov. 9 agreement by Notre Dam~ and Alabama to play in the game, accordmg to Sloan. 
The University of Alabama will sell tickets at $8.50 along the sidelines to students on December 4 and 5 with a limit of one ticket per person with I.D., said C.D. Tauum. business manager of the Athletic Department of the University of Alabama. 
"Any unsold tickets must be returned to the Orange Bowl Committee in Miami by December 15 for sale to the general public," said Sloan. "All other general admission tickets were sold out when we found out which two teams would play." He noted·that the Orange Bowl capacity is 80,010. 
The University of Alabama also plans to sell extra tickets at $10 to the Athlete's Club, and active and regular alumni with a limit of two tickets per order. The priorities of the orders will be based onthe dates they were received. The extra money will ehlp finance the band's trip to Miami, according to Tatum. 
"We're getting fewer tickets to the Orange Bowl than we did to the Sugar Bowl last year," stated Tatum, "and I don't know why. Last year wehad a total of 5,000 studenttickets and this year it is onlv 2,500." 
''The Notre Dame Club of Miami was allotted 300 tickets to the bowl game," said Robert Probst, club president, "although I am not certain of the number distributed to all the alumni. We have to return any extra tickets by December 2 to be used for student sales." 
"Students coming down for the game may have some difficulty getting motel rooms in certain areas of the city," said Probst. "That particular time is the peak of the tourist seasonand the population will double from about one million to two million from Christmas time to the week after New Year's Day. 
"It would be a good idea to start looking ahead for a place to stay, especially far in from the beach where you'd probably have better luck at finding a place that is not taken. Rooms along the shore are being reserved early by vacationers and will probably all be reserved far in advance," he said. 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, November 20, 1974 

Owners refuse revelers 
Sr. Death March dies 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
Saturday the Irish will battle Air Force in the last home game of the season but, for the first time in.~any years, this event will not be preceded by the traditional Senior Death March. 
Owners of Nickie's, Corby's, and the Library have announced they will not open their doors Friday af­ternoon as they have in years past. Neither will the Senior Club be opened to receive the revelers. 
According to Joe Mell, owner of Corby's, tbe decilion to remain closed was made jointly by the managements of the three establishments after last year's Death March. 
"Students come in and tore the place up," said Mell, citing a ruined pool table and broken llgbt fixture as examples of last year's damage. 

After meeting yesterday with Dean of Students John Macheca, Erickson commented, "University officials are opposed to opening the club. They told us it (the Death March) was not in conformity with the University's philosophy or the philosophy with which the Senior Club was opened." 
Erickson also said that there was concern that damage would be done and the work that went into renovatmg the club would be wasted. "It's a disappointment," admitted Erickson. "We wanted it to be open and we wanted the seniors to go. We're trying to get something organized, but rightnow I don't know anything definite. 
"I would like the seniors to switch their attention from the Death March to the Senior Trip," he noted. "I hope it will make up for the disheartening experience with the Death March." 

: Owners of the local bars an­
. nounced they will not open their doors Friday afternoon. to the students for the traditional Senior ·Death March. Proprietors at­tribute it to the fact that damage was too great last year. The Senior Bar will also be closed. 
"They're not even regular customers. Most of them are just out to get drunk at reduced prices," he ex­plained. 
"A lot of them come from other bars already drunk, and they're really hard to handle. I had to close my place for two hours last year after the March," Mell stated. 
Rick Kanser, owner of the Library, agreed with Mell's statement, adding, "Last year I had a $200 plumbing bill from students pulling out pipes and things like that. It's like New Year's Eve; most of them are on a once-or-twice-a-year drunk." 
Melland Kanser also pointed out that the size of their establishments is not large enough for the crowd of 250 or more seniors who usually take part in the Death March. 
Both managers said, however, that their establish­ments would again host a picnic in the spring for their student customers. 
"They can have all they want to eat and drink then for $1.00," said Mell. "We're doing this for our customers, and we don't feel there's any reason why we should have to go along with this Death March." 
"We'll probably take a $400 loss," added Kanser, an ND alumnus, "but this is our way of showing our gratitude to our customers." 
Nickie of Nickie's also commented on the March and the bars' decision to remain closed. "The ramifications are far greater than the benefits," he said, citing possible damage and trouble with the authorities over licensing. 
Erickson and other class officers approached Student Affairs about having the Senior Club opened as an alternative. 
According to Dr. Robert Ackerman of Student Af­fairs, the decision was made not to open the club because, ''We'd rather not have the Senior Club in­volved." 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

Marijuana Special 

The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML), met last weekend In Washington, D.c. to discuss the legal, social and 
medical. implications of legalizing the drug mariJuana. Roy Eckert, a Junior at Georgetown University, concludes his two-part series on the NORML conferenceon page 3 of todays's Observer. 
Wednesday, November 20, 1974

the observer 

warld briefs 
BEIRUT <UPIJ -Abu Iyad, No. 2 man to Yasser Arafat in the leadership of AI Fatah guerrilla movement, a~itted Tuesday t~at his men had planned to assassinate King Hussem of Jordan durmg the recent Arab summit conference in Rabat, Morocco. 
WASHINGTON <UPil -Senate action on Nelson A. Rock~feller's nomination as vice-president may be d~layed un~Il aft~r Thanksgiving, Senate Democratic leader Mtke Mnasfteld said 
Tuesday. d' ·t
There were indicaitons, however, that the House .was spee mg 1 s efforts to bring the nomination to a vote before Christmas. 
TOKYO <UPil -Japan's Boy Scouts Tuesday bestowed on President Ford, a former scout, their highest award for meritorious service, the Order of the Golden Pheasant. 
SEOUL <UPil -About 3,000 college students and religious demonstrators staged anti-government rallies and prayer meetings Tuesday demanding the return of democracy and the true wisdom to South Korea. 
ATHENS <UPI> -The newly organized Greek Communi~t pa~ty, smarting from its poor showing in Greece's first free elections .m a decade, Tuesday blamed its failure at the polls o~ "Am~rt.can imperialism." The Communist party central comm1ttee s1ud m a statement that the landslide 54.7 per cent polled by Premte~ Con­stantine Caramanlis' conservative New Democracy party d1d not mean the Greek people had moved toward the right. 

an campus taday 
3:30 pm --seminar, "wind effects on structures, with special reference to cable stayed and suspension bridges," by manabu Ito, prof. of structural engln,., u of tokyo. rm 303 eng. bldg. 
4:30pm--colloquium, "the early universe," dr. edward r. harrison, u of mass. coffee at .4: 15. rm 118, nieuwland hall. 
4:30 pm --reilly lecture series, "low-temp. photochemistry: part 1,'' orville chapman, ucla, rm 123, nieuwland hall. 
5:00 pm --vespers, log chapel 

6:30pm--meeting, nd sailing club, rm 204 eng. bldg. 
7, 9, 11 pm --film, "the other," tickets $1, little theatre. 
7:30 pm --american scene series, "can values be taught or caught," sr. mary concepta. carroll hall. 
8:15pm--concert, an evening of poulenc applied music facuolty, william cerny, coordinator. llb.aud. 
10-12 pm .. the nazz, with mark hopkln and mike armstrong, basement of Iafortune. 
11 pm --south quad liturgy, light service, refreshments following, lyons hall chapel. 
Have you considered a career in INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS? Our two-year program, Master in International Busi­ness Studies, includes intensive language study; in-depth cultural studies; business skills; and a six­month work experience in Latin America or Europe. Preference is given to students with professional undergraduate training in such areas as engineer­ing, business administration, etc. Other business graduate degree programs at the University of South Carolina include master's in business administration, economics, accountancy and transportation; a combined Law-M.B.A. degree; and Ph.D. studies in economics and business administration. For further information write to: Director of Graduate Studies College of Business Administration The University of South Carolina Columbia, South Carolina 29208 (Paid for by SC Partnership Fund)  
Tom McM<>hon AI Razz.1no Gener<>l Aqent Agent 'learafter year,Isemester after semester, the CollegeMaster from Fidelity Union Life has been the most accept~ most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. Find out why. Call the Fidelitv UnionTerry Billger Agent CollegeMaster Field Associate in your area: 1005 E. LaSalle South Bend. Ind. Phone 287-2327 :~~··~· COllegeMaster  

Neighborhood Help raffle held 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program held its raffle last Saturday at the Alumni Club before the NO-Pittsburgh football game. 
The first prize, which was a color 

television set, was won by Ed 
Welsh of Galesburg, Illinois. When 
contacted at home, Welsh ex­
pressed surprise and delight at 
having won the raffle. 
Second prize, an electronic calculator, was won by Sue Lepel, a resident of South Bend. 
The study help program would like to thank the many students and friends of Notre Dame who helped them raise nearly $2,000 which will be used to support the program for the remainder of the year. 
:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

Observer staff 

Night Editor: AI Rutherford Asst. Night Editor: Ginny Faust 
Layout: Marti Hogan, Karllee 
Clark, Rosalee 
Day Editor: George Velclch 
Copy Reader: Ken Bradford 
TypisTs: Jim Landis, Nell VIII, 
Don Roos, Karen Hlnks, Camille 
Arrleh 
Compugraphic: M. J. Foley 
Night Controller: Howard Halle 
Ad Layout: Bob Tracey 
22 SMC seniors selected for lealership award 
Twenty-two Saint Mary's College seniors have been selected for inclusion in the 1974-75 edition of Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges. This national program has annually honored outstanding campus leaders for more than 40 years. 
The students were chosen for their outstanding scholarship ability, participation and leadership in academic and extra­curricular activities, citizenship and service to the College, and potential for future achievement. 
They are: Christine Clare Albosta, Saint Charles, Michigan; Mary Margaret Anthoine, Lewiston, Maine; Mary Katherine Burke, Evensville, Indiana; Paul Sue Carpenter, Racine, Wisconsin; Carol Ann Collins, Chicago, illinois; Sandra Marie Cosimano, Edison, New Jersey; Carol Ann Costa, Springfield, Illinois; Jane Ann Dolan, Winthrop, Oiwa; Patricia Ann Doyle, Garden City, New York; Deborah Ann Dunlap, 
Clinton, Ohio; Joanne Louise Garrett, Woodstock, Illinois; Virginia Marguerite Gibbs, Flint, Michigan; Patricia Mary Greene, Westlake, Ohio; Mary Beth Imler, 
Fort  Wayne,  Indiana;  Martha  
Elise  Kabbes,  Houston,  Texas;  
Mary  Celeste  Lehman,  Benton  

Harbor, Micigan; Susan Mary McGuire, Northfield, Illinois; Joanell Marie Miller, Barrington, Illinois; Kathleen MarienNolan, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvaia; Gail Anne Pocus, Wheaton, Illinois; Eleanor Mary Quinn, Oak Park, Illinois; Marianne Christine Rinella, River Forest, Illinois. 
The Observer is published dally during lhe college semester except vacalions by the students of the University of Notre Dame -.td St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer !':lox' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

J.Q't Foreign Car Parts Co. 
('!)Parts & accessories for imported car .,.,...; for all makes at lowest prices.
Reaion•l Distributor 
************************* 
: For N D Students, Faculty & Staff 10 :
* percent discount with I D & pur-* ! chase of $10 or more. ! ************************• 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland So. Bend 
Wednesday, November 20, 1974 the observer 
3 

DuPont urges marijuana reformat conference 

by Roy Eckert 
other, more threatening social tainly it has not been for a number Dr. DrPont's remarks were to marijuana. Stress was placed
(Special to the Observer) 
phenomena.'' of years." DRPont noted that in made yesterday at a conference on the faft that the results obtained WASHINGTON, D.C.--Four days Concluding his speech, DuPont light of a recent government releasing the National Institute on were inconclusive and ould not be ago, Dr. Robert L. DuPont, suggested that in the future, the publication he would not use and Drug Abuse's most recent report construed as fact. The im­director of the White House Drug marijuana controversy would would urge others not to use titled "Marijuana and Health." plications for humans were said toAbuse Office, delivered the dissipate as have other con­marijuana. · The report stated that, "For now it be "purely speculative." It waskeynote address at the National troversial issues. would seem that the possible ad­noted that some preliminaryOrganization of the Reform of DuPont, 38, is a 1963 graduate of "I have no intention of repeating verse effects should lead human studies have been con­Marijuana Laws (NORML) annual 
Harvard Medical School. He the experience. Whether it marijuana smokers, or potential ducted. 
conference. In his address, currently holds the position of (marijuana) is decriminalized or smokers, question whether it is Dr. DuPont warily revealed the DuPont urged for the being voth the director of the White lega.lized would have no effect on worth the risk." following key data: decriminalization of stringent House Special Action Office for my own personal considerations," Much of this report was based on -The active ingredient inmarijuana laws, criticizing im­Drug Abuse and director of DuPont said. tests evaluating animal reactions marijuana, delta-9-THC, had been position of stiff penalties for theNational Institute on Drug shown to interfere with the body's marijuana users. 
Abuse. ability to resist disease.
On Thanksgiving Iby
"The substitution of a non­In a revealing statement made -Marijuana amoking affects life of 
criminal penalty with a criminal yessterday, Dr. DuPont indicated cell, cell division, and cell growth.
one is a modern trend," DrPont he had smoked marijuana. -Women who smoke marijuana at said. "The overreaction to "In the past I have used critical periods of fetal develop­



Darby's Open House
marijuana stnds in stark contrast marijuana but it's been a number ment, alter their hormone levels to the nation's ambivalence on 
of years ageo," he said. "Cer-thereby causing sexual dif­by Martha Fanning McLean said. ferentiation of male fetuses. In­Staff Reporter "The main idea is to try and fant males have shown to later offer students soemthing tha in the display abnormal mating behavior 
An Open House at Darby's Place minds of the Ombudsman Service possibly resulting from a mother will be held on Thanksgiving Day. who used the drug.
is long overdue," McLean said. No Fr. Robert Griffin, co-proprietor, food will be wasted and any lef­Dr. DuPont summarized the
stated that he wanted to have the 
tovers will either be given to the report by suggesting that,open house in order to "make a students or stored for future use at "Whatever the alternate eveidence 
facility available to the students 
f~y·, Place." of more serious consfserious
who reamin here over the break." 
consequences of chronic cannabis

Steve Lucero, the Ombudsman 
use, there is little question that

Community Relations Committee
Now that I've gotten all my checkmarked cards for my classes next acute marijuana intoxiaction
officer, and his aide, Jack Piz­
semester, when will I be able to turn in my form 50? interferes with immediate in­
zalato, will be co-ordinating the 
tellectual functioning as well as

pricing and purchaisng of supplies, 
driving and other psycho-motor

making any necessary 
skills," he concluded.

arrangements such as possible use
Form 50s and prepunched class cards can be turned in at Stepan One of the experiements that had 
of a television, and will co-ordinate 
Center fromm 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. from today until Friday, been conducted on humans in­
the manpower. They will be
November 22. After the cards are processed changes will not be dicated thzt levels of the male
assisted by Bob Bode, acting
honored until registration day, January 14, 1975. hormone, testosterone, may
manager of Darby's Place. 
possibly be adversely affected

Supervising the operation is Bill
Are there any Doobie Brothers Concert tickets left and if so what when males smoke marijuana. Of
McLean, Director of the Om­
sections are available? the twenty chronic marijuana
budsman. 
smokers analyzed, six had reduced Yes, there are Doobie Brothers tickets left at both the Student The open house is set to begin sperm counts and two were foundUnion ticket Office and at the A.C.C. The Student Union ticket tentatively at •1:00 P.M. and run to be imppotent.

Office has tickets for the seats directly to the side of the stage for until 1:00 A.M. During the af­""" " Dr. Dupont concluded the press$6.50 and the A.C.C. has bleacher seats behind the stage available ternoon beverages and "mun­chies," such as potato chips or "" *conferecne by reemphasizing
for $6.000. 
· earlier studies which indicated

pretzels, will be available. 
that marijuana affects drivingWhat is the movie schedule for this weekend? So that Darby's does not conflict ability. While under the influence 

with the dining hall schedule,
Beginning on Thursday and playing again on Saturday and Sunday of marijuana both braking and
sandwiches will be served in the 
at 7:00, 9:30 and midnight the Knights of Columbus will be starting times are lengthened and
evening beginning at about 7:00
presenting "Bluebeard." The price of admission is $1.00 for non­concentration is decreased
P.M. They hope to have turkey
members and free to members. On Friday Pangborn Hall will be 
sandwiches and fresh baked goods 
sponsoring "Pat Garret and Billy the Kid" in the Engineering 
on hand.
Auditorium.. Admission there is also $1.00. Topping off the weekend is the Cultural Arts Commission's presentation of t<'uncts and assistance are being"Othello". It will be held in the Engineering Auditorium on Sunday maee a bailable by several sources. and the price of admission is 25 cents. Over two hundred dollars has been 
raised through two of Griffin's Where can I purchase tickets for the Junior Class Formal? masses. The Student Government 
and the Campus Ministry have also The Student Union Ticket Office, located on the second floor of pledged substantial amounts. LaFortune, is selling tickets for the November 23 dance. The Anyone interested in donating "brassy sounds of 'Flight' will be featuredfrom9P.M. to 1 A.M. at can bring their contributions to the the Four Flags Motor Inn, Niles Michigan. Tickets are $5.00 per Ombudsman office located on the couple. second floor of LaFortune. The 
Ombudsman hopes to raise about 
Who is the head honcho of the Hall Presidents Council and just 
three hundred dollars for the 
what are they supposed to be doing? 
event. 

In the past the HPC has worked on such projects as changing the • Assistance has also been offered academic calendar. This year they are wworking on projects like by the Knights of Columbus. It was bike registration, United Fund, and their annual task of An Tosal. the interest of Dan Sullivan of the The head of the HPC is Bob Howl and he is a honcho. Knights of Columbus in this idea 
which got the project started. NOTE: The Ombudsman Service is ready and eager to answer any Workers at Darby's place will be questions and solve any problems that the members of the Notre volunteers, the greatest number Dame Community can come up with, just call us week days 9:00 being utilized during the evening. 
a.m. to 5:00p.m. and Monday through Thursday evenging\i 10:00 to Some of Griffin's friends will be 

midnight at '638. 
Sugar price drop 
ATLANTIC CITY (UPI) ­
Retail sugar prices will begin 
dropping next year and may 
eventually fall to 20 cents a 
pound, the head of the 
Agriculture Department's 
Sugar Division said today. 
Arthur B. Calcagnini, speak­
ing at the annual convention of 
the National Soft Drink As­
sociation in Atlantic City, said 
a drop in domestic demand and 
an increase in production will 
bring the prices down in 1975. 
At a news conference after­
ward, he was cautious not to 
predict how long it may take 
for prices to reach the 20-cent 
level. 
directly aiding asnd will be key factors at Darby's Open House, 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6~!1e occupancy $8~!ble occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. 

HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
4 the observer Wednesday, November 20, 1974_ 
l*********************************** 
Opinions vary 



: * IVJICHIGAN STREET *: 
Grade inflation widely debatedi ADULT 'IHEATHES i 
by Cole Finegan Staff Reporter 

The article in the November 19th Observer on Notre Dame grade inflation has caused a mild uproar on campus. 
Professors were contacted and questioned on their views con­cerning the rise in the G.P.A. at :'-lotre Dame. Several declined comment but others were pleased to "•)ice their opinions on grading in re..:ent years. 
Questions most commonly asked the prolessors were: Are you lowering your standards as the years go by? Is the student of recent years more subject to grade lenil'ncy due to graduate schools' Pver rising requirements? Are students better p1 epared than in past years? Has the "minus" ~vstem at Notre Dame contributed to grade inflation? 
Professor Don Linger, Chair­man, Civil Engineering: "There is probably some merit in Fr. Burt­chaell's statement regarding the lowering of standards because 
Public awareness program on drinking begins here 
by Bob Radzlewizc Staff Reporter 

A public awareness program concerning the positive and negative aspects of drinking was explained in theHall Pesidents' Council Meeting last night by Keith Hewitt, coordinator for the 
national i n f o r m a t i o n clearinghouse on alcohol. 
"Problem drinking is in a large part due to ignorance concerning alcohol," the staff coordinator for the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism told the HPC. "Reports have shown that the very persons who drink the most are the ones who know the least about it Calcohol)," Hewitt 
added. 
This communications program which the Department of Health. Education and Welfare has recently launched is not a tem­perance movement, recom­mending total abstinence from alcoholic beverages. Rather, responsible use of alcohol by those who choose to drink is encouraged.
i' 
The purpose of the program is in providing information that can be used in making "more mature and 
responsible decisions, "according to Hewitt.
I· 
The federal program coor­

' 
dinator revealed that statistics show that alcohol is the principal cause of <unnatural) death in the 18-24 age group. "This is the reason why an important part of our program deals withthe young people on our college campuses," Hewitt added. 
Also, in visits to campuses, the NIAAA coordinator expressed the desire to find out all the different attitudes on alcohol. 
"We don't pretend to have all the answers. Nor is there just one side to the issue, that being that alcohol is an evil," Hewitt admitted. "Its use is very definitely practical, for instance as a relaxer from the tensions. Our stance is that while alcohol can be practical, responsible and moderate drinking is stressed," the guest speaker declared. 
The awareness campaign will offer staff lectures, films and literature. The Notre Dame program is beinl! run out of the office of assistant Dean of Students Mary McCabe. After Hewitt's presentation, HPC 
: X 2 f1LM) : : X BOOKSI'CH: !
* *
i X LIVE FLCXE SHOW l
l 1316 SOOTH MICHIGAN STREEl' : *CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION~ 

t*********************************** 

'\' 

'..:;;~::.~~~::,:,• ..~ -~h~ ~~ 
NOTRE DAME 71·UCLA 70 
Play It Again, Digger 
I 
II 




He has. 
A COACH'S WORLD recalls every exciting moment of the 197 4 basketball season. This candid, outspoken diary takes you be­hind the scenes as the Irish pursue-and achieve-national prominence. All of the drama and excitement, exhilaration and disappointment of an unforgettable season is relived. Intimately. Absorbingly. And only as it could have happened under the Golden Dome. 
SPECIAL PRE-PUBLICATION 

AUTOGRAPHING SESSION: 
Digger will autograph copies 
in the Notre Dame Bookstore 
before the Air Force game 

on November 23. 

people are getting higher grades. Specifically, you cannot attrubute it to giving higher grades for less effort." 
"In my case, I often ask the student for effort outside the calssroom-labs, projects, research in the library-Igive grades accordingly. I certainly ask more of a student now than I did in 1959, for instance. If he 
responds with the effort I demand,! grade accordingly. 
"I don't think I grade any easier. 

I think the "minus" grading system has brought down the 
G.P.A. because before I many have given a "B", but now I may give a "B"-, and so forth." 
Dr. Richard Otter, Mather­matics: "I don't believe I grade any easier. The standard of quality has certainly lowered, also, the "minus" system has certainly contributed to rising grades. 
"What used to be a "B" is now an "A-", a "C" is a "b-", etc. Has the student become better? I don't think so. Human nature hasn't changed in the last 10 years." 
Chairman Bob Howl strongly recommended that the halls set up these information -g~ving programs. 
"I do not doubt that there are at least a few students in each of the halls who are interested in lear­ning more about alcohol and its abuse," Howl said. 
In other business, Tom Porter, HPC executive coordinator and chairman of this year's An Tostal weekend, announced that plans are now being formulated for the annual HPC-sponsored ex­travaganza. Although dates are still to be determined, Porter explained that the gala event must be held on a weekend when the ACC has not been. previously booked, so that a concert can be held in conjunction with. An Tostal. 
(continued on page 9) 

Fr. Robert Kerby, History: "I was fairly pleased with the article on the rising grades. It pointed out a complex problem we have here and something must be done. 
"There is no single reason, but grades and standards are going to become meaningless unless something is done. The student will be hurt in the long run. 
"I personally do not grade easier, my standard grade is "B-" so perhaps I'm a relic of the Neanderthal Age. I have a reputation as a hard grader and purposely cultivate it so I can receive the cream of the students." 
Dr. D. H. Winicur Chemistry: "This is my fifth year here and I don't believe I grade easier. In my opinion, students are getting better. 
"Has the difficulty in getting into graduate school influenced my grading? Certainly not. People have always needed good grades for medical school and graduate school; but if they do not deserve the grade, they will not receive it." 
Dr. John Borkowski, Chairman, 
Pshchology: "It is not a simple 
issue. On one hand, we may have 
unintentionally lowered stan­
dards; in some cases students are 
not performing as well as they can, 
but are receiving comparable 
grades. 
"However, teaching techniques 
have improved greatly and re­
designed to allow all students to 
learn. We do not just say there 
are going to "x" number of "C" 
students. 
"We should be careful not to 

throw out a course just because a 
large number of students :eceive 
"A's" in it. Rather , we should 
applaud innovative teaching 
techniques which are designed for 
every student to learn. 
"On the other hand, I would be 

suspicious of classes where 
learning is low and "A's" are 
given only because a certain 
number of A's"' are desireable. 
The minus system has 
contributed somewhat since it is 
limited to "A-", "B-"; we should 
bring the "minus" system down to 
"C's" and "D's" also to be com­
pletely fair." 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS WITHOOT WHEELS? 
When In Need Of A Quick Getaway, 
Call Lois At 



JORDAN FORD 
259-1981 

STUDENT RATES: Rent A PINTO w For Just 
JORDAN 


FORD 


$ 6/Day & 6 ¢/Mile (MIN. AGE 21) 609 E. JeHerson, Mishawaka 
-j • I '-• • 

Wednesday, November 20, 1974 the observer 

•
OBSERVER Review of Books 
an overview 



the rich get richer ... 

The sad state of the economy is evident in the latest releases from the major publishing houses. The odds against people paying for little-known authors are stacked against the fledgling novelist or poet. Well­known authors are being relied upon to take up the slack and boost sales. The majority of the new books this season are by authors who have had one or more best-sellers. 
A list of titles reveals the situation~ 

Tales of Power, by Carlos Castaneda; 
The King's Indian, by John Gardner; 
Lord Rochester's Monkey, by Graham 
Greene; Something Happened, by Joseph Heller; The Hawkline Monster, by Richard Brautigan; Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, by John leCarre; Look at the Harlequins, by Vladimir Nabakov. 
What has chang~ as a result of the 
economic recession-depression, though, is 
that there are no new authors being 
published as a result of the large sales of the 
well-known authors. The publishing houses 
are having a hard enough time keeping their 
financial heads above water with 
established writers, let alone fooling with 
the risk of a new name. 

The phenomenon extends through 
paperbacks as well. Paperback publishers 
are working hard to capture trends, to 
exploit big names, to make a few bucks off a 
safe bet. Thus, there are numerous books 
about Watergate on the paperback shelves, 
many about getting the most out of your 
relationships, innumerable editions of 
gothic novels, along with your usual gathering of sex books. 
Paperback houses are beginning to play strange financial games with their best­seller rights. More than ever, they are estimating the season of release, the mood of the populace, the general timing. This has always been the case, but in this season one finds himself at odds to explain the strange handling of certain books. 
For example, Bantam books has been prepared to release Burr, by Gore Vidal. <reviewed in this supplement), since June. But they have held off the big push until now for two reasons. The first is the Christmas season, and the second is the coinciding release of Vidal's latest work, Myron. The cheap commercialism of ij)e paperback house's move is only matched by the cheap commercialism of Vidal's writing a sequel 
to Myra Breckenridge. 

There is an increased tendency to "re­cycle" titles and big names. Jack Kerouac's Visions of Cody has been revived, as have books by Brautigan, Castaneda (in a con­stant cycle of re-issue), and biographies of cult-heroes such as James Dean, Janis Joplin, Mick Jagger, Jack Kerouac, and famous literary figures such as the Fit­zgeralds and Hemingway. 
The publishing houses have always been 
guilty of commercialism, but there has 
always been a sense of justification in that 
the profits from best-sellers could finance 
new ventures. This is not the case in the 
Winter of-1974. Publishers are straining to 
gain a foothold, financially. They are not 
about to take chances now. 

What does this mean for the reader? Are 
we headed toward a state of deprivation in 
literature, as we are heading economically, 
socially, and politically? Can these well-
by fred graver 

known authors carry us through hard times, aid in the survival of their craft? 
In the sense that we will be seeing a great decrease in new works, in new authors, and in a broadening of literary tastes, we will be suffering a period of deprivation as long as the economy suffers. 
But, judging from the recent releases, there is hope for the state of literature. Aside from a few shameful efforts, the well­known authors are turning out good books. 
Among the shameful are Gore Vidal's Myron, James Michener's Centennial <horribly subtitled "A Random House Novel"), and Allen Ginsberg's Allen Ver­batim (transcripts from a lecture tour of small colleges). 
Fortunately, the interesting titles far outnumber the shameful. All of the books in the above list of titles appear interesting, have received good reviews, and are en­joying a good deal of success. Some of the books are not listed there 
Fortunately, the interesting titles far outnumber the shameful. All of the books in the above list of titles apJ)ear interesting, have received good reviews, and are en­joying a good deal of success. Some of the books not listed there, but just as good, are: Rock On: An Illustrated Encyclopedia of Rock and Roll, by .Norm N. Nite; My Life and Films, by Jean Renoir; The Year of the Wombat, by Francis Watson (a portrait of London, 1857, featuring the characters of Charles Dickens, Lewis Carroll, Queen Victoria, and Hans Christian Andersen, among pthers); Love-Hate Relations ­English and American Sensibilities, by Stephen Spender; and Kissinger, by Marvin and Bernard Kalb. 
There is one area of adventure and ex­perimentation in publishing, but it is more the act of authors than publishers. At­tempting to capitalize on the success of The Whole Earth Catalog (which is in a revised edition this year), publishers have begun searching for books which will fit well in an over-sized format. Most of the titles are unusual, and many worth looking into. Among these are: Dali ... Dali . . . Dali, a volume of reproductions of some of the 


· great surrealist's best work; They Could Not Trust the King, the best of the post­Watergate books, with text by New York Times writer William Shannon and foreward by Barbara Tuchman, and ex­cellent photos by NBC photographer Stanley Tretick; and Unpopular Science: An Un­natural Book About Natural Phenomenon, by Arthur Rosenblum, which features such bizarre aspects of natural life as psychic dentistry, astral travel, acupuncture, and recording spirit voices. So, all in all, it looks as though the publishing houses and the big-name authors will survive the recession. Bit it doesn't look good for any writer who is attempting to get his first break. 


needed: world improvement motivation 
Tht> Humane Imperative: A Challenge for the Year 2000
by Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
Yale University Press 
115 pp. $5.95 

Fr. Hesbul'gh suffers from that special curse of the man who has dealt so long and so prominently with the same problem that everything he has to say about it begins to sound the same. Of course, this "curse" is something of a literary status symbol as well, and it would certainly be hard to criticize Fr. Ted for having narrow in­terests. It may be that the curse operates only around Notre Dame, since it is a fair bet that most of us have, or will have, heard him discuss in person the issues in The Humane Imperative. 
What has thus far been lacking in human history, then, is not capacity, or even opportunity, but rather motivation for improving the world, the sense that there is a humane imperative. Fr. Hesburgh devotes particular attention to Christians in this regard. He is concerned that many Christians cannot see the connection bet­ween socio-economic problems and their own properly Christian concern with the eternal. He therefore strives to demonstrate that the humane imperative is implicit in mainline Christianity, by means of "a theological bridge between human progress and the Kingdom of God." This bridge forms one of the book's leading idea: that orthopraxis, right action, is as germane to the Christian concept of transcendance as orthodoxy, right belief. Given this premise, says Fr. Hesburgh, it is impossible to deny a Christian duty in supposedly secular affairs. 
It is important, however, that he does not try to assert the primacy of orthopraxis over orthodoxy, as so many "concerned" priests today do, if not in so few words. All too often, social concern is squared with transcendance by downplaying the latter and then rationalizing the downplay, something like this: "To care is to tran­scend in a very real way, to transcend the boundaries of pettiness and selfishness which we ourselves draw around us" etc., etc., etc. Fr. Hesburgh mercifully refuses to play this game. For all his concern with social problems, he recognizes the "primacy of the spiritual and of spirituality in one's personal life ..." In other words, the truth behind orthopraxis is not that we will come to transcend by caring, but rather that we will come to care through a better understanding of transcendance: "Tran­scendance does not mean unconcern, but ultimately greater concern, freely given, without compromise." 
The intellectual discipline suggested by this balance between orthopraxis and or­thodoxy is perhaps the chief virtue of this book. Fr. Hesburgh's proposed solutions for the world's problems are a catalogue of "bleedin~-heart liberalism": "the power of ecumemsm," "the green revolution," "educational data banks" in space, a slowdown of world population growth, a "tri-regional world" with "world citizen­ship," all keynoted by a broader definition of "the range of human rights," and sum­marized by a "Declaration of In­terdependence." But Fr. Hesburgh's is a bleeding-heart liberalism which is not afraid of its intellectual respectability, not afraid of referring to the "philosophical implications of an adequate solution." As such, it is a major improverrtent over that species of peculiarly Christian liberalism which regards itself as the inevitable consequence of Christ's "whatsoever you do to the least of my brethren" teaching, and which collapses into a sad and puz­zled silence when anyone demands more of a 
justification for a social conscience. 
Fr. Hesburgh takes up the challenge of 
providing that justification. He shows that dismissing charity as sheer sentimentality is empty logically as well as theologically, thereby highlighting the imperative of humaneness in a way which most bleeding­hearts do not dare approach. For all his incurable optimism, he is realistic enough to realize that an argument from the heart alone will convince almost no one nowadays. Thus, while most bleeding­hearts tend to cluck at or pray for the cynics and pessimists of the world, mainly because these types tend to make mincemeat out of them in open debate, Fr. Hesburgh rather relishes the combat. Perhaps his greatest contribution as an apologist for "Christian humanism" is that he is always willing and frequently able to make the case for op­timism by beating the cynics and pessimists at their own game: rationality. 
Fr. Hesburgh's bleeding-heart proposals for improving the world, therefore, far from being sentimental truisms, are actually the result of an im­pressive reasonableness, although owing to the lecture format they frequently appear to be dicta. It is, however, unfair to argue that this commonsensical liberalism is a mere articulation of all our best intentions, of what we all, true believer and cynic alike, would like to see someday. 
Fr. Hesburgh certainly does not avoid controversy. It is quite easy to see serious objections to his' conclusions in almost every field, even if we do not wish to argue them all. For instance, as an amateur ur­banologist, I would object to his proposal that slumdwellers be resettled in the "open areas beyond the city" as the final sacrifice of the urban to the suburban. A particularly vulnerable position would seem to be that "mercantilism in the modern dress of the multinational corporation is pioneering some unusual ways of economic develop­ment between the northern and southern 
<hemispheres)," though I will leave specific 
critiques to professional economists. 

by ed martin 

On a broader scale, it is frequently asserted that Fr. Hesburgh's biggest flaw is an unfortunate but touchingly complett! faith in the potential of human technoloS.:r' for solving such problems as hunger anrl illiteracy. It is certainly true that The Humane Imperative takes for granted that solving the world's problems will not be as difficult as convincing men that they havtt t\ stake in the work, though it is nowhere suggested on this account that it will be easy work. It seems, however, even if man cannot now accomplish all Fr. Hesburgh believes him capable of, that the possibilities for the future are at least open enough to justify a reasonable hope. 
This criticism, though only marginally damaging, does however point to the fact that any major complaints about The Humane Imperative must be lodged against its optimism. As noted earlier, the book is largely predicated on an act of faitl) and its detractors should find a stronger refuge in denying its faith than in denying its con­clusions. 
More debatable than Fr. Hesburgh 's faith in technology is his faith in human nature. Not that human nature is so manifestly evil as to negate all hopes for man, but rather that Fr. Hesburgh leaves unanswered several questions which, unanswered, tend to prove that very assertion. Most of his solutions depend on sharing between nations, and he is not ignorant of the fact that convincing have-not nations of the importance of sharing is senseless unless the have-nations can also be convinced. 
What he does ignore, however, is the problem that most political leaders take seriously the dictum of Mandeville that "Private vices are public virtues." In other words, nations today are fearful that generosity, admirable enough in an in­
(Contlnued on page 8) 

....-----------------------..._----------­
the observer Wednesday, November 20, 1974
6 
·---~ -~~ ~ -­

a vision of harmony, grace, and erotic bliss 
by marilyn mahoney 
Erotic Spirituality 
by Alan Watts and Eliot Elisofon 
Collier Books 
$3.95 

Erotic Spirituality: The \';sion of Konorak can actually be considered .1s two complete works, combined into a beau•iful hook that presents not only a vision of <>:->­dent erotic Indian lore, but also a vision of a world that can sanely combine modern technology and Oriental spiritual wisdom. 
Eliot l':lisofon. in a series of delicately tt·xtun•d black and white photographs, pn·sents both panoramas and close-ups of se\·eral ancient Hindu temples, most im­portantly that of Konorak. Few of us will have the opportunity to visit India, much lt•ss these secluded temples which are found south of Calcutta. But Elisofon's work admirably protrays the total impression of the temples and the people and land that surround tht•m. 
The temples. apparently built to honor the Sun God. were constructed in the 13th l'Pnturv A.D. Time, wind, and rain have Proded. the intricate carvings that adorn the walls. hut the elements have not--yet-­disguised the basic harmony and grace of the facades. Elisofon's photography is supl•rb: the photos are both expository and beautifully complete works of art. The subject of most interest on the facades are the many nude figures: couples embracing sensuously, courtesans dancing gracefully, all enjoying an erotic bliss that is filled with pleasure and love. 
Whether concentrating on these alluring figures. or capturing a temple-dominated panorama, Elisofon photographs with care and appreciation for his subject matter. One ft>t>ls the lacy, delicate quality of the stone patterns, and also feels the same air of t•njoyment. peacefulness, and sensuality t•xpressed by the many figures. 
However, as one becomes increasingly aware of the eroticism involved in these photographs, and the fact that this is ac­tually a Hindu temple, one is instantly struck by the incongruity: dancing and t'mbracing nudes serving as ornaments for an undeniably holy place. Westerners, taught from early childhood the strict dil'horomy between sex and religion, please and piety. sensuality and saintliness, would understandably find this all somewhat t>mbarrassing. 
It is at this exact point that Watts' con­tributiou is made. Alan Watts, who until his death last November lived on a mountain north of San Francisco, is best known for his work in Eastern spirituality and its ap­plicability to our own technolc .~ical society. He has analyzed Western am in particular American society (dealing rrimarily with t_he psychological and spiri· .~al problems) and offered solutions to those problems based on the teachings of 7P.n duddhism and Oriental thought in general. 
In Erotic Spil'ituality, he follows this same theme. using a starting point the dichotomy illustrated in the photograpt.3 and stated simply in the title. His own explanation of his purpose is to provide a context in which these "manifestations of ancint Indian culture may be understood, not merely as museum pieces ... but rather as expressions of a philosophy of enormous importance and interest to the modern world." Com­mt•ncing with a brief analysis of the basic world view of the Vedanta (the central doctrine of Hinduism). he moves quickly to the Hindu concept of reality: that of the universe as a whole, to be experienced totally, with the experiencer also an essential part of what is to be experienced. 
There is no transmitter of experience and a coordinating receiver, as insisted upon by modern Western philosophy. In fact, Watts claims, any anlaytic approach to the Vedanta immediately destroys one of its basic tenents: Reality must be ex­perienced: analysis serves only to objectify and alienate humans from their world. This discipline of nonceptual experience, practiced among the Hindus in Yoga, is similar in intent to that of Zen, or Tantric Ruddhism. or even modern spin-offs like Transcendental Meditation. The mind must he released of concepts through the purification of the senses. One must not concentrate. one must not be aware of sense perceptions, one must release all conceptual ties to the senses. This doesn't sound easy, and of course in an academic atmosphere where everyone is steeped in rationalism, analysis. and the search for empirical proof, it's not. But this insistence upon concepts and ideas as separately existing things causes what Watts might call a sociological 
schizophrenia. However, when one is able and willing to strive for this nonconceptual state, one (and here we must take his word for it l sees the world as undivided, in­tegrated, and one becomes healthy (i.e., whole l as a result. 
Why should one even strive for this, though? What if we're content in our schizophrenia? In answer to this, Watts makes his strongest point: Unconscious and . repressed as it may be, we all are striving for ecstasy. It is vitally important to our lives, as essential as vitamins or fresh air. We have been misled by our social order to think that ecstasy is either unattainable or better postponed till after death. But in fact we are all in a permanent ecstasy-seeking state. 
However. in ancient India, this drive for ecstatic experiences was provided for: people, after fulfilling their responsibilities to the community, were free to leave house and family and become wanderers, liberated from any role or responsibility. Our own society, as we so well know, cannot tolerate such personal liberation. 
Watts suggests, then, that sex may have been a commonly accepted way of ex­periencing ecstasy. The act of sexual in­tercourse was an experience that involved a great deal of ritual. several attendants, self­adornment. It was not solely c:n opportunity for male arousal and orgasm, as it too often is in our own culture, but involved both partners fully in a prolonped ecstatic ex­perience that resulted in attaining an "undouded awareness ol reality." It combined the physical and rne spiritual in a disciplined ritual that re: ulted in greater pleasure for both partners. 
Looking again at Elisofon 's photographs, one sees that the figures are not solemn and pious, nor are they smirking lewdly; they are filled with happiness, love , and grace. There is certainly no suggestion that their activities are pornographic or shameful, or that their spirituality is serious, un­comfortable or difficult. 
Watts. in summary, believes that if our lives were integrated and happiness, even ecstasy, were found in any activity, sex, music. art, sports, etc., the need for ap­propriate times and places, the urgency to "go out and tie one on," and the disap­pointment of unsatisfying relationships and activities, would all disappear. Our whole life would become an ecstatic, integrated experience. Ultimately, personal liberation becomes a reality, and technology takes its proper place as a servant to humankind, rather than as its master. 
All this is mighty attractive, but of course demands relinquishing many of our material values so we may strive for what may. in the end, not appear to us to be freedom at all. The Hindus, for example, have hardly turned into a hedonistic lot; in fact. the ideal of the Yogan is total ab­stention from both meat and sex, so as to obtain a purity of the senses. The appeal of celibacy and vegetarianism is hard for most of us to imagine, much less understand. 
But the essay is a real invitation to pursu~ Watts' work further, and perhaps to even pursue Eastern thought to the point where the talking can end. and the experiencing begin. 

Portrait of a Marriage 
by Nigel Nicolson Bantam Books 251 pp. $1.95 

Only once in a great while do publishing houses come out with a book as strong as Nigel Nicolson's Portrait of a Marriage. Nicolson's Portrait is the story of the highly anomalous marriage which his parents, 


a many-sided marriage 
love. Leaving her two children and her husband, Vita literally ran away to Amiens with Violet. Harold and Violet's husband, Denys, flew there and took their wives to Paris where the two lovers were separated. 
It all sounds like one of those novels found under the romance of current best seller sections of a bookstore. But it is more than that. It is a real life experience recorded by a woman in an attempt to 
Vita Sackville-West and Harold Nicolson, • impose some order on a world spinning 
negotiated for almost half a century. It is a book which initially might shock readers, but which ultimately will fascinate and even haunt them. 
The story line is not simple for it is the journal of the lives of two extremely in­telligent people who pitted their personal sense of morality against the high society standards of England -and won. As Vita writes in her autobiography which com­prises the first and third sections of the book, "Of course I have not right what­soever to write the truth about my life, in­volving as it naturally does the lives of so many other people." 
The story does though center on an autobiography Vita wrote in the seventh year of her marriage. At that time a slowly Jlo.-akening awareness in her erupted into a full blown passion. Vita discovered that she !)referred sex with women. She carried on a 
·-~utifully erotic and highly physical love 
!;olir with Violet Keppel. 
In a climactic fever of love, Vita and Violet plotted to elope and leave the society which would shun them if it knew of their wildly in the aftermath of an affair that society condemned and her husband could not completely condone. This book is almost epic in scope and possesses a remarkable clarity of vision. 
Through the sympathetic explanatory material which Nicolson compiles to make the second, fourth and fifth sections of Portrait, the marriage of Harold and Vita is seen evolving as an alliance which abandoned the sham of conventions which could only bring chaos to their divergent, and rich lives. Rather, their marriage became a base for their literary work and absorbing life styles. 
Both Vita and Harold throughout the marriage had affairs with persons of their own sex. Perhaps the most famous is Vita's affair with Virginia Woolf. It is not clear from Vita's letters and diaries nor from Nicolson's research if the affair were ab­solutely and passionately physical. It did. however, endure only a short time, perhaps a year at the longest. 
This marriage was not a marriage of convenience between two holl'osexuals. Both VitaandHarold were very IT' . .Jch in love at the time of their marriage. f~arold wrote during their engagement to Vi'ca, "If you let me down, I feel I could kill yr;u. I love you so much more than ever before, and the longing after you is liked a stretched cord within me." About the same time, Vita wrote in here diary, "These days I think so much of Harold that I can't sleep ... I cannot let him out of my life. I shall marry him." 
Yet Vita Sackville-West, a minor poet and proJif1c writer, and Harold Nicolson, a brilliant diplomatist and recognized author, found something much more to base their marriage on than merely sex. Theirs was a marriage in which both found total liberty and complete happiness in the other. Even after they had ceased to have sex together, their marriage succeeded because of this base. 
Their son Nigel offers no sappy apologetics in Portrait. Instead his framing of Vita's autobiography is tactful and dignified. Neither disgusted nor repulsed by the irregular nature of his parents' marital alliance, Nigel shows what was the core of their marriage which endured long ab­sences and sustained infidelities. Peeling away the veneer of horror at their infidelity and homosexuality, he presents the com­mon sense of their approach. 
"Their morality can be summed up as a consideration for other people, particularly for each other, and the development of their natural talents to the full." 
With no bed to bind them in marriage, 
by robert baker 

Harold and Vita rested their alliance on a civilized concern for each other and on an emotional release through their literary work. 
They must have faced opposition and been pursued by gossip for the unusual tenor their marriage. Here then is the flaw of 
Portrait of a Marriage, if indeed it be a flaw. Nigel, for all the background information he compiles, does not provide an adequate picture of the opposition. There are, of course, hints of it. Vita's mother, Lady Sackville, wrote that Harold would "relieve himself with anyone." 
Perhaps Vita dismisses all critics in a brilliant summary of her marriage with Harold:: 
"I would suppose that ninety-nine people out of a hundred, if they knew all about us, would call us wicked and degenerate. And yet I know with absolute certainty that . there are not ninety-nine people out of a hundred less wicked and degenerate than we are. I don't want to boast, but we are alive, aren't we? And our two lives, outside, and inside, are rich lives ­-not little meagre repetitions of meagre cerebral habits." 
Portrait of a Marriage, published in paperback by Bantam Books this month, is a sensitive story of a marriage which succeeded precisely because it abandoned the normal structure of a marriage. Harold Nicolson . and Vita Sackville-West discovered a wild triumph in their marriage. And the book that chronicles that triumph is a moving experience of richness and depth which makes for compelling reading. 
Exclusive 

By Marilyn Baker with Sally Brompton 
Macmillan Publishing Co., Inc. 
240 pp. $8.95 

Since the Patty Hearst drama began in early February of this year, the usual assortment of "what really happened" writers have stayed in an anxious holding pattern. Only one, Marilyn Baker, has ventured such a documentary in a book, Exclusive!, released this month by Mac­millan. The bad thing is that she, too should have waited. 
Exclusive! The Inside Story of Patricia Hearst and the SLA, is an account of the outside story that oozed across every front page and television screen from the time Patty Hearst was kidnapped from her fiance's apartment through to the May 17 Los Angeles shoot out. The author, Marilyn Baker, is a television news reporter for northern California's educational station, "KQED Newsroom.' Written with the aid of free lance feature writer, Sally Brompton, it is an accurate piece of reporting though seemingly drawn more from hindsight than investigation. But their error is at­tributable to an incomplete story and not an incomplete episode. Baker's title is premature; for when Baker begins her narrative with the kidnapping of Patty Hearst from the apartment of her fiance, Steven Weed, by SLA aspirants Donal DeFreeze <Cinque), Theoro Wheeler and Nancy Ling Perry on the night of February 
4. Her tendency, however, is to trim available facts from any police reports with the lace of her own investigative abilities. Particularly underscored is the fact that Hearst was sharing an apartment witth her high school mathematics teacher, Steven Weed. In the same paragraph Baker "reveals" the live-in, and she admits to personally calling Randolph Hearst, Patty's father and owner-publisher of the Hearst newspapers, for his permission to use it. 
After the kidnapping, follows a solid job of reporting on how the Symbionese Liberation Army really only began to develop after the kidnap. Baker offers well researched 
--~--------~-----~-~----~----­
Wednesday, November 20, 1974 
the observer 
7 

an exclusive that should've waited 



biography as novel: burr 
arrangement she alone shared with Ran­dolph Hearst -a private and direct telephone line to Randolph Hearst. Baker's reference to him often throughout the book is simply, Randy. 
Despite the self-accolades of her in­vestigation, which sometime grace every page, Marilyn Ba_ker eventually admits the limitations she worked under while pur­suing Hearst. Since KQED is an educational station, their staff is forced to operate on a hand to mouth budget. The lack of availability of money and equipment par­ticularly hampered her twice; when she first traveled to Los Angeles without a camera crew on a lead three weeks before the -May 17 barrage that the SLA had migrated from the Bay area south and then later that weekend of the 17th when KQED was unable to send her back. All of her information that weekend was taken from an eye witness at the scene over a neigh­bor's telephone. 
At these two points her narrative does crumble apart, Baker takes up an even 

sketches on the backgrounds of the original six members which grew to nine after the shoot out in L.A. The original members, DeFreeze, Perry, Willie Wolfe, Patricia Soltysik, Angela Atwood adn Camilla Hall, had wavered through different causes until the Hearst kidnapping. The obvious question as to who devised the kidnap plan is only weakly covered with Baker's theoretical assumption that Patricia Soltysik was the brains of the SLA. An assumption weakly defended. 
The effect of these February to May events on the Hearst family was also well documented by Baker and assistant Brompton. But the charge of the in­completeness of the entire Patty Hearst story in thisbookmust again be levied. The Hearst's ordeal did not end, like this book, with the death of the six SLA soldiers tht Friday evening. Baker clumsily compounds this insensitivity by describing the exlusive more intriguing question which un­fortunately is afforded little print. Namely, what responsibility must the media bear in sensationalizing the entire Patty Hearst episode by the immediate air time and headline space every SLA communiques and ransom demand. Either the media could be charged with having overstepped its bounds in judging Hearst's kidnap as large and hard news, or they were totally manipulated by the SLA, intentionally or not, to propagandize. On either count, it is a question which media professions should deal with before history does. 
Marilyn Baker's "KQED Newsroom" won the Peabody Award in 1969 as the first local news show in the country. She has also been awarded the Medallion of Honor for Out­standing Investigate Reporting by the National Academy of Televeision Arts and Sciences. Her reporting is complete; her subject wasn't. 
Burr 
by Gore Vidal 
Bantam Books 
576 pp. $U5 

In the 1973-74 book season, "Burr" by Gore Vidal outsold all other works of fiction. 
It was exciting, historic, high-brow en­tertainment from a craftsman of the language. Today, six months later, it is still a hard-cover bestseller in many areas, and a national bestseller in paperback. 
"Burr" has forged a literary precedent. Vidal has successfully strayed form literary convention and drafted for us a literary and historic masterwork. He has made the biography into a novel. He took famous historic figures, and actual encounters between them, and composed a work which has been classified as "fiction." "Burr" is the life story of Aaron Burr. But why didn't Vidal just write a biography? He explains: "In the novel one has the right-the duty--to speculate on motives, while the biographer is honorbound to deal only with the facts." 
The book begins with Aaron Burr at the age of seventy-seven. A ficticious early American journalist, Charlie Schuyler, is trying to discover whether or not Martin Van Buren, then Jackson's vice-president and a_ presidential contender in the next election,' is the illegitimate son of Aaron Burr. Charlie involves himself with the aged Burr at first under the pretention of writing Burr's biography. Soon, however, he ignores his original pursuit (although he resumes it later out of financial necessity) and involves himself and the reader with Burr's biography. Much of the book in­cludes Burr's "notes" <written of course by Vidal l and so the booi: is co-narrated by both Charlie and Burr. 
Vidal, as a writer, is definite craftsman. In "Burr" he has successfully reproduced the style of writing used during the revolutionary period, and recreates its tone and its inversion of clauses, while leaving the impersonal voice of that Age for historians. 
There is an informal atmosphere which prevails throughout the book, and the reader is thus spared all the Glory and Grandeur of histoic tradition (an aspect of 
. history which exists in the imaginations of grade-schoolers, and, unfortunately, in the minds of those who write our history). We are also spared the dust and darkness of history, but not the length. The long­windedness of the Founding Fathers is shared by Vidal. The book is nearly 600 pages long; overbearing, indeed. 

As the life story of Burr is unveiled by his "notes" the reader becomessurroundedby a host of historic god-men, cynically depicted. 
Here is another of the book's major failings: Washington is portrayed as a military idiot and an actual monarch who insists upon being referred to as "Your Mightiness", while Jefferson is seen as a man who beats horses unmercifully, and dreams and plots for an all-encompassing empire. Vidal refers to Jefferson as one of our greatest hypocrites, and shows him fabricating evidence and threatening witnesses in the treason case against Burr. 
There are only a few of our original leaders who escape a brutal depiction by Vidal, and no one emerges from "Burr" as saintly as Burr himself. But should we trust Vida's invention of character around men so distant from ourselves? I think not. He is accurate to an ·extent. History mostly records for us only a series of public actions these leaders performed. But motives for these actions are generally undefined, while in "Burr" Vidal defines or invents them for us. The smaller measure of private and semi-private matter is usually scandalous and negative. And although it is a necessary part of his novel-biography to include it, in order to insert personality into these figures, it is nevertheless a dangerous weapon for an author with the cynical discretion of Vidal. 
There are only two characters in this novel ·who did not actually exist: Charlie, the narrator, and a man named William de Ia Touche Clancey. The inclusion of the latter, a middle-aged homosexual who pays boy­prostitutes for pleasure, is definitely 

l l 
by tom drape 

l ~ 
•
•
• 
~ 
•
•
•
-• 
~ 
• 
l • 
by tom o'neiI 




questionable. The author himself is a self­acclaimed homosexual, and there seems no other reason than to please the author or to emphasize the timelessness of homosexuality as a side-theme, to include him. 
Yet outside of these faults: the length of the book and the excess of detail, the per­sonality slants, and the inclusion of William Clancey--the book is generally faultless. The character and life-story of Aaron Burr is fascinating, the style of writing is ex­cellent, and that portrait of Revolutionary War times, as Vidal has painted it in "Burr," is inexcusably real and exciting. 
Vidal's career as an author has been extremely successful. At the age of nineteen he published a novel, Williwaw, to the amazement of critics. He has since established himself as a major novelist. He has proved mostly commercial in the past, however, with his most popular work being Myra Breckinridge. 
But "Burr" by Gore Vidal has achieved both artistic and commercial success. It has set a minor literary precedent, and has received the universal praise of critics and contemporary authors alike. And ultimately, it was accepted overwhelmingly by the book-reading public. 
8 fne observer Wednesday, November 20, 1974 
COBSERUER Review of AlbumsJ borrowed tunes a Ia rod 

by dennis casey· 
k.l.. 




The talent combined in the production of "Farewell." It is the story of Stewart practically takes a back-up position to one after a while. His highly electric sound 
Hod Stewart's new album, Smiler on the leaving home for the first time: Elton in this cut. The sheer overoowering permeates nearly every selection. Too !\1crcury label appeals to such a varied sound of the piano and the Memphis Horns often little attention is paid to the mood the audience that success is guaranteed. Not "Please appreciate I must make a break in this selection, however, makes the lyrics convey. A song like "Bring it on only are many of the artists from Rod's just to see what I can do. lyrics hard to decipher. In fact this is a Home to Me," in which a simple and direct past albums assembled here but also The stage is set so understand I can't hide fault of practically the entire alb~m. Since style would be appropriate is ruined by an direct contributions from Elton John, in the wings no more, no lyric sheets are provided and Stewart's overload of extras that detract rather than Bernie Taupin and Paul McCartney help I got to go now it's no use me staying enunciation is often faulty, it is often add to the song. make for a number of spectacular cuts in home." difficult to figure out the words in various Although the flaws in Smiler are 
the album. Stewart has also borrowed sections. present, the steady driving beat of the heavily from songs made famous by such Stewart's adaptation of another's song is Perhpas a major flaw of the album album combined with other standard artists as Chuck Berry, Carole King and especially admirable in his rendition of would be the sameness and predictability Stewart qualities definitely make this Bob Dylan. The result is a well­Carole King's "You Make Me Feel Like a of the Stewart style. For those who have album another good one for Stewart fans. complemented album of both new and old Natural Man" (a slight change in words.) enjoyed his past albums this might appear However, for those unsure of the Stewart .;;ongs. to which Stewart adds his unique This cut provides a welcome break from to be an asset, but during a two-year hiatus style, a listen to one of his past albums >lyle. the general rowdiness of the album. from recording, one would hope for some . would give you a good idea of what to 
Originally a schoolboy soccer star in Stewart's searching and entreating vocal further maturation or change in the expect in his current album. If you like F:ngland. Rod found his niche as a per­arrangement, along with the work of the direction of his style. what you heard there, you will get more of orming artist. His Scottish background Memphis Horns complements this song Many of the selections seem to blend into the same and then some in Smiler. 
>ften enters his music. From his well The same conbination teams up \mPrican debut with the Jeff Beck Group agam in Paul McCartney's "Mine for Me." m 1!168, through his nationwide tours with One of the outstanding features of this F'accs, this singer has emerged in his own album is the keyboard arrangements, ·ight during the past five years with a especially those of Pete Sears in Chuck !Umber of gold albums. Berry's "Sweet Little Rock 'N' Roller." In fact the similarities between past The raucous playing style of Sears' works Jlbums and this present one are striking. well with the piercing sound of Stewart's 
rhe same singing style--informal an<l voice. One mysterious point in this album ·asual--is still there, along with Stewa:. s is the opening of this song, the first of the hoarse--practically rasping voice which album. It begins with about fifteen 
seconds of a dog barking. At least the dog, :mce again gets a strong workout. Other 
.;tewart regularities are the seemingly a boxer named Zak, gets his picture and a 1bligatory Dylan song, this time "Girl credit on the inside cover of the album. from the North Country," and his forced Having borrowed from Elton John and laugh that often erupts in the middle of his Bernie Taupin in the past in his rendition 
of "Country Comfort," Stewart gets;ongs. 
The writing duo of Stewart and Martin another contribution from John in "Let Me be Your Car." He sings and plays some of
~uittenton, who have teamed up in the his best recorded piano reminescent of
:1ast in such songs as "You Wear it Well" md "Maggie May," have come up with "Burn Down the Mission" from Tum­
bleweed Connection. In fact Stewartmother song in the same tradition in 

capturing hearts and dollars 
by john zygmunt 

Joe Cocker is rock and roll's living answer packaged and set up as carefully as any of Billy Preston's "You Are So Beautiful" The sky is made of stone. 
o any number of B-grade movies of the past the old movies mentioned earlier. Designed <the new single) seems to become Cocker's ~eneration in which the singer comes from to capture our hearts and dolllrs whatever song in every way. Backed by a superb But of all the good songs Randy 10where and makes it big, is then sort of performance they got ot:t of Cocker, pianist Nicky Hopkins, he turns the sim.Jle Newman's "Guilty" provides this album's nanipulated, goes heavily into drink and from the cover ("Stand there J.>e, that's it, lyricism of the song into as profoumi a best mor.-.ent. The story of a broken man Irugs, crashes--is left for washed up, then at Now look tortured.") to the s.:!ection of statement of what love is as Cocker co~ 1 haggered on all sides trying to pump himself he end of the movie makes a stirring material, ironically it is such a brilliant ever give. up with enough drugs because "I had to ·omeback with the help of a successful old album because Cocker still has ~o much of "The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress" ~ ,, keep movin' baby--Till I was back in your riend, (so everyone went back to their the talent that made him the hest white Jimmy Webb is highly romantic with a arms again." Newman plays a gospel piano· adios and Packard s happy) leaving the blues singer in the world. Provided with metaphor that refers either to a love in­in the background while the album moves to tUdience smiling through the tears. splendid songs from Randy Newman, terest or the problems of stardom. WhilP. its climax. 
Someone set up such a moment for Cocker Jimmy Webb, Harry Nilsson, Billy Prest(ln Webb weaves the music perfectly to suggest his year in L.A. Before journalists from all and others, Cocker seems to explore himself a beauty that would be beyond an ex­You know how it is with me baby 
•Ver the country he was to make his first in a depth one almost never finds in albums plumber from England, Cocker builds to a You know I just can't stand myself tppearance on the comegack trail and show of more pretentious "heavies." moving climax: It takes a whole lot of medicine darling hem how he still had his old magic. What Included are a couple of rockers to­For me to pretend I'm somebody else 'ocker did manage to have was a bottle demonstrate he still holds the ability which I ft>ll down on the road f wine at the pre-eoncert dinner. The result characterized the "Mad Dogs and Er ~!;lish­I fell down awful hard Cocker conquers melodrama and gives a Jas predictable. Cocker had to be pushed men" sound but the most successful c;.ts on I fell down on my face stunning performance on this album. As ut on stage. Once he was there he this album feature simply a piano and I tripped and missed the stars time goes on Cocker may finally fade but roceeded to wander around sometimes Cocker: three in particular are some of the I fell ...I fell alone this album will show the beauty he could aying attention to what the band was very best performances heard all yea1 . The Moon's a harsh mistress give. laying, sometimes not. Finally, the band ot up and \eft leaving Cocker to walk round mumbling "What happened?" until omeone got up out of the audience and led im offstage. Anticipation for the promised 
ted's new world
ew studio album dropped considerably 

fter this. However this new album, Cocker's first udio work since 1971, signals the ap­(Continued from page 5) 
perhaps the worst of all, {is) national in this respect. Without the dissolution of 
earance of one of the moving personal 

dividual, is a sign of weakness on the part of sovereignty" and its attendant nationalism. that combination, the "Hesburghian vision" ·staments I've ever heard on a record. 
a collectivity. This fear is much harder to It is to combat this phenomenon that he is doomed to remain a vision.
ocker shines through beautifully and eradicate than simple miserliness, for it is proposes a World Citizenship. In this outline Fr. Hesburgh concludes his discussionlovingly capturing all the pain of the past tied into national survival instincts. To the argument is unimpeachable. What ruins of World Citizenship with the assertion that1ree years on a piece of plastic that sells for ignore it is to invite disappointed hopes for a it is Fr. Hesburgh's belief that the sins of "somehow I believe there is enough good

i.l2. 

Obviously, somebody was a better world. nationalism are caused by the fact that "the will in our country and in the world" to bring
interested Even more important is the fact that millions of little people, ... the ones who the idea into reality. We might say that the·eat deal in selling because this album was this fear is today shared by the broad really work and suffer and die while the same hope pervades each proposal of the masses as well as by the political elite, or at politicians posture and play, these little ones ideal in the book. Fr. Hesburgh has least, those of the broad masses who ever have never been given a chance to declare demonstrated conclusively that the

t SUPPLEMENT ~ 

think about such things. This qualification themselves." This is simply not true, least feasibility of any solution to the world's Editor: Robert Baker becomes meaningless in precisely the of all in the United States, where the change problems stands or falls on that hope. If Design: Andy Peavler, places it is needed the most, that is, the of national heart is most needed. The nothing else may be said for his career in 
Norm Bower have-nations, if the United States is any enormous popularity of George Wallce's the future, it must always be said of Fr. Sketches: 
indication. combination of gut patriotism and appeal to Hesburgh that in The Humane Imperative, qobinson Fr. Hesburgh believes that "the one "the little man" is ample testimony to the he at least made good will more palatable 
great remaining divider of humankind, sad misplacement of Fr. Hesburgh's hopes for men without once compromising it. 



Ihte uncertain 
An Tostal discussed at HPC 
.: 


Porter: Success of An Tostal depends on a great deal of volunfee'" workers. 
Roaring 20's held at Stepan 
by Kevin Dickerson Staff Reporter 
Dave Shaheen and the Pangborn Hall Council will sponsor a Hoaring 20's Dance this Friday, November 22, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Stepan Center. 
The theme will be centered around the Great Gatsby era and all students are urged to dress accordingly. Music will be provided by the Hash Brown Blues Band, and during the band breaks, pre-recorded 20's music will be played for those who wish to jit­terbug. 
Hall President Denny Dziemianowicz says, "We hope to have a boppin' time, and hope that those who attend the pep rally will stick around for the dance." 
Cost of the tickets will be $1 for guys, $.50 for girls and $1.25 for couples. Tickets can be purchased at the door. Contact Dave Shaheen at 8432 or 327 Pangborn Hall for more information 

''The NAZZ'' 

Presents Tonight Wednesday 
10:00 Mark Hopkins 

11 :00 Mike Armstrong 

Also This Friday 
Jazz Night at 9:30 with The N.D. Jazz Band and Combo 

FREE ADMISSION -BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT GOVERNMENT SPONSORED 
(continued from page 4) 
The HPC executive coordinator did speculate that this year's dates would be near in time to last year's late April time slot. 
Porter also commented that the success of An Tostal depends on a great deal of volunteer workers. ''The success of last year's event is 
S:t«:: students to participate in Glamor contest 
Saint Mary's College students are invited to participate in Glamour Magazine's Top Ten College Contest for 1975. Young women from colleges and universities throughout the country will compete in Glamour's search for ten outstanding students. 
A panel of Glamour editors will 
select the winners on the basis of 
their solid records of achievement 
in academic studies and-or in 
extracurricular activities on 
campus or in the community. 
The Top Ten College Winners of 
1975 will be photographed by 
leading New York photographers 
and featured in Glamour's August 
College Issue . During June, the 
ten winners will be invited to New 
York to meet the Glamour staff 
and will receive a $500 cash prize. 
Anyone who is interested in 
entering the search should contact 
Ms. Stevie Wernig, assistant to the 
vice president for student affairs, 
for more information. The 
deadline for submitting an ap­
plication to Glamour is February 
15, 1975. 
WAITRESSES NEEDED AT FAT WALLY'S 
2046 

So. Bend Ave. 
277-0570 APPLY IN PERSON 

traceable to the efforts of the 30­member committee," he acknowledged. Anyone wishing to work on this year's An Tostal committee should contact Porter after Thanksgiving break. 
Blake Wordal, co-ex coordinator, requested that the HPC participate in a food-tasting test in new types of food. The Notre Dame Food Services is experimenting with protein supplements in the menu entrees, a program which is now being practiced at St. Mary's, according to Wordal. The protein foods, initially tested by Miles Laboratories, could be "placed on 
next  year's  menu  if the  taste­ 
tests  are  satisfact ory,"  Wordal  
said .  

The final piece of business was an announcement by Pat McLaughlin, Student Body President, that Student Govern­ment has a van which can be used by any of the halls, free of charge, providing that the purpose of its use is "reasonable." 
THINK .... CQ.LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA 
.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=====~===~:::::::::!:::::!:!:!:::::::::::!:!:!:::::::::!:::::::~:::::::::~:::::::::::::::?.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~===~:::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::!::::::::::::~:::~;:::::::~:::?. 
CHICAGO'S SPOR SPECTACULAR WOR.TH THE TRIP 

*See Over 7,000 
Pairs of Skis
*See Over 6,000 
Pairs of Boots 
ic See 6 Giant Floors of Sports Equipment See 14 Great Sports 


Departments 
SAME DAY 
SKI BINDING 
INSTALLATION 

' :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::.~===~===~=~=~=~=~:~:;:::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::.::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::=:::;:-;:~:~:~:~:::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Save Big Money
*On Big Brand Name Ski Equipment 
• 
Head-Fischer-Yamaha 

• 
Lange-Rossignoi-Hart • K2-Kneissi-Look/Nevada


* Ski Clubs & GroupsAttention 
Call us now and we will give you $1 00.00 towards 
bus transportation. ~iii 
10 the observer Wednesd!!l!... November.20. 1974 
~-------­

Organization set up to direct food crisis help 
by .John DeCoursey Starr Reporter 
An organization is being set up on campus to actively direct Notre Dame's response to the food and resource crisis. The organization is called Student World Concern and is being formed by AI Sondej. 
"The organization is being 

formed," said Sondej, "in response to student's requests on what they can do to help alleviate the problem. It will be open to everyone." 
The purpose of the organization is to make people aware of the problems and to direct activities dealing with them. 
"We want to combat the two-fold problem of overconsumption in industrial countries and over­population and underconsumption in third world countries in a world limited in resources," Sondej added. 
Sondej listed three areas that the organization will get involved in : money, eating and voting. 
In the monetary part of the program, the organizntion will establish a Notre Dame foreign aid 





Fornter Mayor is 'slap-happy' 
LONllON l 1PI -A former mayor candor," Gray said of Brooks. 
of Chdsea with an admitted fond­"But never does it without their ness for slapping girls on the consent." bottom appeared in court Tuesday The newspaper told how 19-yar­seeking libel damages from a old, fair-haired Sue Carr answered newspaper which called him "a Brooks' advertisement for "good­mPnace to young girls." natured young ladies" to crew his 
Thames cruiser. He told Miss Carr 
.John Broks 64, was suing the IPC she would get $24 extra if she let newspaper chain add journalist herself be spanked, Gray told the Michael O'flaherty over an article court. which told how he invited a teen­The following day after lunch on age girl to his Thames river his boat Brooks asked the girl if cruiser where he spanked her bare she wanted the extra money and bottom. then poured whisky on her she pulled the curtains and un­to take away the sting. dressed, Gray said. 
Lawyer Roger Gray said Books, Brooks slapped her with his hand married for 27 years, enjoyed as she lay naked on the bed. He slapping girls' bottoms but he was then rubbed whisky on her bottom not "a dirty old man." to take away the sting and 
"Every healthy normal vigorous bruising, and smacked her again, male is a bottom slapper in mind if Gray said. not in deed," Gray said. "There is no doubt that he did "He admits it with uninhibited slap Miss Carr's bottom. He also 
Pike recipient of Award 
Dr. Frederick B. Pike, professor of history at Notre Dame became the second recipient of the University of Texas' Distinguished Graduate Award. 
The award, initiated by the University's Institute of Latin American Studies in Austin, Texas, is given to that alumni in the field of history whose scholarship; and devotion in Latin American studies merits him the appreciation and esteem of his alma mater. 
William Glade, director of the Institute, applauded Pike in winning the award "Professors Pike's life and work stands as a particularly inspiring example for 

! • all of our students," he said. "By his widely recognized scholarship and distinguished publications and by the evident and warm devotion he has evoked in somany of his own students. Prof. Pike has amply earned the title of Distinguished Scholar." 
Robert Farrell, director of Notre Dame's Social Science Research Lab and a fellow alumni from Texas, presented Dr. Pike with the award in an afternoon ceremony in the office of University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh;, 
11111111111111 II IIIII I IIIIIIIIII 111111 IIllllllllllllllllh 
Erratum 

According to yesterday's Obsl'rver, reservations for the Madrigal Dinners at St. Mary's could be made by calling the Programming Office at 4167. That did something which will horrify Scotsmen the world over-he poured whisky over her," said Gray. 
number  is  incorrect.  The  
Programming  Office  phone  
number is 4176.  

He said Brooks, a former colonel and Japanese prisoner of war, was a flamboyant larger-than-life character, a "solicitor, soldier, alderman.and hand hunting amn". 
He also said Brooks used bawdy language reminiscent of the eighteenth century hunting squire and had a similar outlook, straightforward and earthy, about sex." 
The hearing was expected to continue Wednesday. 

HELD OVER 


TOM LAUGHLIN 
and ffi 

..,. ........................... T .... .... EVERY EVE. AT 8:00 
At BURGER CHEF'! ••give your sandwich
t 
the "works" at NO EXTRA CHARGE 
Two locations .• 
1716 N. Ironwood 52920 U.S. 31 North (at Cleveland Rd.) 

fund and will direct fund raising activities among students, faculty and alumni. 
"The Notre Dame foreign aid fund," said Sondej, "will be similar to a collection agency in certain ways. First, we would ask Notre Dame's policy makers to endorse certain voluntary agen­cies. They would endorse the most efficient organizations." 
"We would then set up a monetary reservoir from con­tributions made by students faculty and alumni. Finally the fund would then be distributed to the organizations," Sondej added. 
In regards to eating, the organization will try to establish through petitions, a permanent 
economical and ecological diet for 
those students who wish to par­ticipate. 
"Basically this would cut down 
on meat consumption to make 
more grain available to people," Sondej explained. 
The third part of the program is similar to a lobby. "The organization," continued Sondej, "will organize student petitions on campus to support certain positive foreign aid measures. We would canvass the South Bend area to gain support for the measures. Finally, the organization would endorse politicians who fa-vor increasing non-military foreign aid." 
Anyone who wants further in­formation should contact Sondej in 
front of the North Dining Hall 
during lunch or the South Dining 
Hall during dinner. 


NOTRE DAME 

FHESIIMAN PREREGISTRATION FOR ARMY BOT(' 
Preregistration for the Freshman Army ROTC Spring Session will be held Nov. 14-21, 1974. 
No military obligation is incurred during Freshman and Sophomore years, and by enrolling, you become eligible to compete for a two-year Army ROTC scholarship during your Sophomore year. It pays full tuition, for books and academic fees, as well as $100 per month subsistence allowance. Even without a scholarship, you receive $100 monthly in your Junior and Senior years. 
Army ROTC can offer you a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the US Army Reserve concurrent with your graduation from college with a starting salary of $10,000.00 a year in addition to other liberal fringe benefits. 
If you then decide to leave the Army, you'll find that employers realize that a young graduate who possesses the attributes of leadership essential for Army officers is an excellent addition to their firm. 
The Army ROTC course consists of two class hours per week and is open to all Freshmen at Notre Dame or other nearby cross-enrolled colleges. Course hours can be arranged by telephoning Major Jim Musselman at 283-6264 or by contacting him at the Notre Dame ROTC building. 
Fix your own burger the way you . like it at our new Works Bar. 
Help yourself to lettuce, tomatoes, onions, relish and pickles. If mustard and catsup are all you want, it's there for you too. Have as much or as little as you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar ... and build your burger just the way you want it. 
-------~--------­


W~nesdaY, November 20, 1974 the observer 1 1 •. 
Aides directed by Nvcon 
CLASSIFIED ADS
Mitchell pressured to confess 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Con­"I think this is the worst one, and preserve some thread is for vinced that John N. Mitchell well, due, due to the closeness you go go in and, and, uh, 
WANTED 
Someone took the wrong blue 

was "not gonna make it to the President at the time of voluntarily, uh, make a state­
parka, Friday night at the 

anyway," President Richard M. the crime." Haldeman earlier ment." 
Need ride to Detroit Tues., 26th. Heidelberg; mine is smaller, 1 Will pay. Call 1132. have the XL. Call 1372.
Nixon ordered a top aide to suggested the "only salvation" Nixon then ordered Ehrlich­pressure him into confessing for Mitchell was "to admit it." man to meet with Mitchell and 
Wanted: 4 Doobie Bros. tickets. Attention
his role in the Watergate break­On April 14, the President tell him: "You have reported to 
Call Chip, 6931. Louie's has a pool table, pizza, and 
in to draw attention away from and his aides discussed several me and I have asked you to go 
great beer. But don't take our word 

the White House, according to ways to pressure Mitchell into up and lay it on the ground to 
Wanted: used short wave radio. for it-come see for yourself. 744 N. Tim, 232-4927. NO.
tapes played Tuesday in the confessing his Watergate role, Mitchell and to tell Mitchell, Watergate cover-up trial. including having the former look, there is only one thing 
Need ride to Cleveland, Nov. 25 or Students: buy your stereo
Nixon's order to "go see attorney general approached by that could save him. I think 
26. Call Mary, 1250. equipment at Golden Dome 
Mitchell" was relayed to aide Nixon himself, by Secretary of John's got to hear that kind of 
Records, 804 Flanner, ph. 1487. 20· 

Looking for riders to Washington, 40 percent off on all brands . Ad·
John D. Ehrlichman during a State William Rogers, or by a talk ... " 
DC for Thanksgiving break. Call vent, AR, Bose, Dual, Garrard, Kevin, 288-7375. Marantz, Pioneer, Sony, and much
lengthy April 14, 1973, meeting variety of other individuals who Another tape played for the at the time the Watergate Mitchell might "trust." jury Tuesday, that of a March 
more. Over 100 name brands at big
collapsing Ehrlichman suggested Mitch­

cover-up was and 27, 1973, conversation, showed 
Two good Doobie Bros. tickets. discounts. 
threatening to reveal high ell be told, "The jig is up. And 
Call Mike, 1152.

Haldeman telling Nixon the 
White House involvement. the President strongly feels 
prosecutors would never give 
Records now on sale at Golden

Nixon, Ehrlichman and for­that the only way that this 
Mitchell immunity "unnless 
Dome Records, 804 Flanner, ph.
thing can end up being even a 
1487. New Moody Blues, S9.98 list,

mer Chief of Staff H.R. they figure they could get you. 
FOR SALE 

reg. $7.70, now $7.20 total. New For sale: snow tires, two F78-14 on 
Haldeman met for 21.-'2 hours little net plus for the adminis­He is as high up as they've 
Elton John (just released) $9.98

about what to do about tration and for the presidency been." 
rims. Excellent shape. Used 1000 list, reg, S7.70, now $7.20. New
Mitchell, former attorney gen­
miles. $35. Call Lou, 234-8076. 
Loggins & Messina $6.98 list, reg.

eral and Nixon campaign 
$4.55, now $4.25. All YES albums 7 month old registered black male

mnager; his re-election deputy, 
on sale. Also every Fri. is ladies

Novak speaks on American 
poodle. Has shots. Partially
Jeb Stuart Magruder,' who 
day, $.50 off on all double albums,housebroken. $50.00. Call 272-7857 

S.30 off on all single albums. in the morning or after 5:30 pm.
already had committed perjury 
before the grand jury; and 
sports and mythic football 
The Early Childhood Development

Watergate burglar E. Howard 
For sale: 1 senior trip ticket to Center at St. Mary's would like aSouthern Cal. Call Carol, 6733.
Hunt. 
singer with guitar to entertain at

by Bill Gonzenbach dimension of .fluidity. It dependsAccording to the tape, Nixon 
Christmas Party, 5:30-6:30 Dec.

2 GA Air Force tix for sale. Call
Staff Reporter on the individual variation. Likeand his aides decided it would 
15, 1974. Fee open. Songs ap­8661.

jazz, everyone is different, yet in 
propriate for season and young

be better for Magruder to 
grand Speaking last night on the tune," said Novak. 
children. Call Mrs. Pat Garreffa,

confess his jury perjury 
2 GA tix for Air Force! Cheap, 277­
284-4150.

correlation of American civil Novak added that basketball isthan to try to cover a lie with a 
0019.

religion and sports, Dr. Michael related to black culture because oflie. Nixon suggested he could 
4 USC tix for sale. Greg, 1423. The world is your oyster.
Novak said, "apart from sports, it the relationship of the elusivenessurge Magruder to voluntarily is hard to understand the best of basketball and of the pre­
Phillips GA 212 electronic turn­
go to the U.S. attorney after 
SQUISH!

ideas in American culture." emancipated black culture. 
table (new) Tharens TO 125 AB
Haldeman noted Magruder's 
MKII with B 9 o Sp 12 cartridge-2
In America, things of im­In addition, to book he is writing testimony could "nail Mitch­
new walnut Advents. Call 1487. Manuscripts submitted to the Fall
portance have to do with con­about sports, Novak has writtenell." 
1974 Juggler may be retrieved

science, morality in commitment, many other books, such as BeliefAs for Mitchell, Nixon said: 
Lost: from the Juggler office, 3rd floor
said Novak ,who is currently writing and Unbelief and Choosing Our 
Blue book-bag containing very LaFortune from 10:00 -11:00 
a book on American sports. "We King. Novak has also taught at 
important notes. If found, please Thurs. morning, Nov. 21. Art work
Freshman Year to must look at America as a Harvard Stanford and Old West­
call Bill 3058. may be rescued from Michael 
Boland, 424 Cavanaugh.

religion," the professor stated. bury. In 1968, he worked for the 
LOST AND FOUND

go to Oticago Novak asserted the immigrants Robert Kennedy campaign and in 
Rock Dreams, Tolkein, Lenny

who left Europe felt it was the early 1970's, he worked for the 
Bruce, Hesse, Jung . . . goodFound: student hockey ticket. Call

Friday Nov. 29 necessary to justify their reasons McGovern-Shriver campaign. 
reading and more over break atthe Observer for info about the

for coming to America. 
Pandora's Books. 602 N. St. Louis
ticket, 8661. 

Blvd. Staff Reporter the goodness of America. If the
by Kevin Dickerson "Therefore, they had to insist on 

Lost: Texas Instruments SR-50 Saint Mary's College Summercalculator. Reward. 277·0167.
trip wasn't worth it, they wouldDr. Emil T. Hofman, Dean of the 

Program in London, May 20 -June
feel guilty," the author said. 
20. Travel in England, Ireland,

Freshman Year of Studies, and the 
Lost: Help!! Lost one gold 10 
Scotland, Wales, France. Collegebracelet, initials C-A-0. Please

Freshman Year Office will be 
credit available. $865 plus tuition.
For Novak, the vindication of 
call 8093. Reward! Help!!

sponsoring a trip to Chicago as 
Call 284-4951.
America has reslted in a religiouspart of the semester-long extended 

belief about our nation; however it Found: key chain with 3 keys near
Freshman Orientation Program. Take the Greyhound to Chicago
Bio. Bldg. Call Jim, 8685.

The trip is scheduled for Friday, is a secular and civil religio~. from NO every Friday at 5:40. Call "America's view is like that of Tom Boyer, 272·1807.
November 29 and is intended for Lost: pair of black-colored, wire­
Rousseau. It is a secular nation

those freshman who are unable to rimmed glasses. Please call 289­
that views itself as a religious 2757. Cl LA Christmas cards on sale thisbe home for the Thanksgiving week, cafeterias, Huddle, and
enterprise," said the theologian.

holidays. Library. $1.75 for 12 masterpieces.
Lost: grayish glasses in tan case.
"Americans are clear about the

Buses will leave from Stepan Lost last Fri. Reward. Call 7884.
specialness of the civil religion inCenter at 9 a.m. Friday morning America because the image is

enroute to Chicago. Arriving in the PERSONALS
FOR RENT
institutionalized," Novak said.

city at 10 a.m. (Chicago time), the 
The author stated that there are To the 5 o'clock escapees:
group will be touring major points Furnished apartments: 503 W.
many civil religions and images of The Past and the Future
of interest, such as the Police Jefferson duplex. 3 rooms each, 
Hang in Perfect Balance,

these can be seen in American first and second floors. Gas heat
Department or the Chicago Trade 
All focused on the Present.

sports. furnished. 289-6307, 234-0596.
Mart. In Time,
Novak limited the examiniation

After the tour, box lunches will Married students: nice, clean, J. & J.
of sports to baseball, football and

be provided by the Freshman Year furnished apartment, 3 rooms and
basketball, because, as he stated,

Office. Freshman will break into bath, 10 min. from campus. Dear SLC:
"These are the ones Ilike best." Available Dec. 12. $95 a month. Many thanks the latest sex
groups of 5 or 6 according to for 
"Baseball is a symbol of the Ca II 234-1946. ruling. It is good to know we cancommon interests. 
now without of

British-American experience," the Novak: Football is a symbol of the live fear sexual
A freshman from the Chicago Room -$40 a month. Near rides. abuse or seducktion.
professor judged. Novak stated

area will act as group leader to immigrant's struggle against the Privacy, kitchen. 233-1329. The Ducks of I'<Dthat it was a myth of the in­brutaI society they faced in
escort members in the Chicago 
lone in

Loop area. Certain groups will be dividual's struggle America. by Harry Bush Room for rent: excellent location Cass: 
America. He added that because it Novak concluded his lecture by and conditions. Call 232-4545. Will you please pay my bail"?
composed of students with in­terests in areas such as records, in is a symbol of the British­bringing the question of sports to !-bedroom apartment in Crest­Affectionately, 
Your little brother

American experience, it is hard for Notre Dame. "What if it is true
which case a stop will be made at wood. Appliances furnished.
baseball to accept integration.

the World's Largest Record store, that Notre Dame's greatest con­Noise, no problem. Sublet through
Novak cited the difficulty of hiring tributior. is living out the mythic summer. 234-5320. Happy Birthday, T. G. Fun! Fun!
located in the loop area. Other Jerry Ford 
groups will place emphasis on black managers in baseball. dream of football'?" Novak asked. 
Rooms for football weekends,
It was a question he did not an­To: J. & J. (alias ROPERS)
photography, art, sporting goods close to campus. Mrs. Cooper, 272·
For Novak, football is a symbol swer. He added that there is a We've been ROPED! HEAD first.
and shopping. 3004. $3 a night.
of the immigrants' struggle special quality at Notre Dame Hope you enjoyed the cab ride.
Students are urged to bring 
The ROPED

against the brutal society they which compels one to do the im­
personal money with them for purchases they may wish to make faced in America. "The eleven possible in football. NOTICES Dear Boss: 
in Chicago. men who prevent you from gaining When questioned about the role Good luck this My
weekend. your goal are symbols of the of women in sports, Novak Good opportunity for enterprising thoughts will be with you!
The evening will be devoted to 
struggle immigrants faced," said responded that our culture deals students. Established carry-out Love always,dinner at a Chicago restartant, and 
pizza business plus living quarters "Mac"
Novak. mainly with male-male conflicts.
a tour by bus of Chicago at night, and apartment. Age and illness 
viewing such places as Michigan Novak added that football is also Ue added, however, that "There is sale. will carry
force Owner Dear Time Magazine:

BLvd., Rush Street, and Old Town. symbolic of the American cor­a growing increase in women's contract with good terms. Call So this is the thanks we get forporate structure which has sports, and I think it is very good." Sharon Deering, 289-1394, First
Buses will return to Notre Dame at working hard? Shove it up your B­
developed since World War II. The lecture,which was spon­Realty, 282-2337. hole.
approximately 9 p.m. 
"Corporate life is like the im­sored by the Student AcadeimcReservations must be made by migrant idea of communal Commission and the Departmentthis Friday, November 22 by 5 p.m. 
struggle against opposing forces," of held Observer classifieds get results!
The cost of the entire trip will be Theology, was in 
the professor said. "Corporate life Science
$4, including meals and tran­Nieuwland Hall at 8:00 
is like the communal struggle of p.m. Approximately 40 people Bring yours to the Observer office by 1 p.m. the day before it sportation. Interested freshman football." attended the lecture. Dr. William is to be run.
may make reservations by calling "Basketball is a communal 0 'Brien, professor of Theology,the Freshman Year Office or by 
game; yet, it has the added introduced the speaker. Call7471 for rates! 
stopping in at Brownson Hall. 
12 the observer Wednesday, November 20, 1974 

'More involvement' main goal for co-captain Collins 

Future Notre Dame opponents may want to take notice of Greg Collins' immediate objective. 
Collins says he wants to become "more involved" in future games. The defensive captain of the Irish, already the team leader in tackles with over 100, says, "My game will be better if I can just get more involved." 
That may take some doing for the All-American candidate from Troy. Michigan, who also led the Irish a year ago in tackles with 133­·induding 11 for 58 yards in losses. 
()pspite his statisticol success, Collins doesn't put much weight on his number of tackles. "With our front four taking care of op­ponents' blockers," says Collins, "I sure better be making a lot of tackles. Resides, as a linebacker, it's my job to be near the ball, whether it's a pass or a running play. If I didn't make several tackles, I wouldn't be doing my job." 
Colliins, who says the decision to attend Notre Dame was an easy one, had to give up a love other than football when he arrived. 
"My family loves Notre Dame," admits Collins. "When the Irish would win. it would make our weekend back home. Besides, I wanted to attend a school which I thought consistently plays the best football in the nation." 
"But I realized in order to play to the best of my ability, I had to give up another love--hockey. I think hockey is a great sport and I miss playing it, but have no regrets about concentrating on football." 
Collins fits the mold of excellent linebackers Notre Dame has fielded over the years. "Our front four makes us look good, though," says Collins, who also admits he learned much from former Irish linebacker Jim O'Malley. "Jim taught me how to read, how to cover against the pass and when to key strong or weak side." 
"Many times a linebacker has to play a guessing game, deciding where the ball will be going. Much of my success in that regard I owe to Coach Kelly <Irish linebacker coach, George). He stresses technique and has an uncanny ability to tell you how to expect what's going to happen." 
Collins is naturally pleased about the Irish success the past few seasons, "But I'm not satisfied," he quickly adds. "When we get satisfied we're in trouble. And no one has played a perfect game--there's always room for improvement. In my own case, I'd like to react quicker. Many plays I've been just a step too late. Reacting quicker might help me stop a play that could be disastrous." 
Collins has been noted to shine in key games for the Irish. He was UPI and AP's lineman of the week after last season's Southern California game after making 18 tackles, recovering one fumble and forcing another. 
In the Sugar Bowl victory over Alabama, which gave the Irish the :1ational championsjp, Collins registered 16 solo tackles. And he's durable. In 1973 Collins led all defensive player with 225 minutes played. This year he's again in the thick of things despite being hampered all season with shin splints and other assorted ailments. 
''This is a beauti(ul campus," says Collins. "I'm going to miss it when I leave. But I have to admit that professional football appeals to me. Just when I came here, I'd like to try playing in the National Football League--you know, the best competition a bailable." 
Collins isn't looking far ahead, however. "We've finally turned 
Pete M::Hugh:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::===:::::::::::::=======:========:::=::::======:::::::=============:=============================:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:==============================· 
Extra Points 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::wayne 
Woodrow Hayes 
Let's not mince words, Woody Hayes is a sch­muck. 
No matter how many games he's won, no matter how many All-Americans he's produced, no matter how many people he's drawn into Ohio Stadium, Wayne Woodrow Hayes is still a detriment to football, education, and yes, even America. 
Whether he's punching photographers, slapping fans, or merely spouting off his conservative, pseudo-patriotic inanities, Hayes is dangerously out of line. You can call him successful, .controversial, even colorful, but no way is Woody Hayes "good for the game." 
In his 24th year as head coach of the Buckeyes and after a heart attack last June, Woody hasn't mellowed much. He is still the same old firebrand: shirt-sleeved, humorless, and compelled to give his opinion on everything from middle guards to middle America. Robert Vare in his recent book Buckeye: A Study of Coach Woody Hayes and the Ohio State Football Machin£' extracted some interesting quotes from the 60-year-{)ld coach. It might be best to let Woody state his own case. 
On the situation in this country: "I'm a student of history and I've been sick as hell at what's hap­pening in the country. You can see the pattern just as clear as day. We're tearing down all our heroes in America 1 There's just no respect anymore for anything, goddamnit. Now you take your sports or your military or your politics. They've gotten to and destroyed just about every sports figure we've ever had. Or take your presidency. They've torn apart every single one, even George Washington. 
" ... Now when you think about what's happened in this country in the last few years you begin to wonder just how much longer we're gonna last. Up until a few years ago we used to take the team out to a good movie on Friday nights before the game, but this is a real problem now. I remember we were up playing Minnesota and we took the boys to see Easy Hider, and it really shook 'em up. We played just a LOUSY game the next day." 
On college campuses and professors: "Now you take your situation on the college campus today. The dorms are so <bleeping) filthy now, there's so much sex and drugs, we can't even let recruits stay there the way we used to. The permissiveness it is total. Y'know I picked up the school newspaper the other day and started reading this doctor's advice column they have and here's the kind of letters they print. One letter is from a girl asking this so-called doctor if she can still have an orgasm in the SU­peri or position! ...By God, this is what they're printing these days in the (bleep) Lantern. The student newspaper. 
"Do you know where you can lay the blame for this whole goddamn mess on campus? It's these goddamned professors they have nowadays. The kids have nobody to look up· to. Why, I remember when I was in school some of my greatest heroes were my teachers, because they were so dedicated. 
They really took an interest in you and some of 'em 
would even invite you into their homes and treat you 
just as nice as could be. But these fellas they have 
today leave the student in the classroom. No, sir, 
they don't give a (bleep) about their kids. They go 
home and forget about them until the next class. 
"I saw this happen when we had our disturbances 
on the campus three years ago, and a few of us were 
running around trying to cool down the situation, 
because there was just goddamned anarchy all over 
the place. Most of these jerks who call themselves 
professors just stayed away because they don't give 
a (bleep l about the school. I'm still bitter about 
that." 

Oberlin College, a quiet Ohio school more noted for its music conservatory than for its sports program, also came under Woody's scorn, specifically its liberal athletic department: "Now what really gets me mad is when you fellas from the press and pipsqueaks like that Jack Scott (then Oberlin athletic director) talk about your DE-humanization and brutality. They've gotten so goddamned liberal up there at Oberlin they don't even give a damn about sports anymore. I hear they're even letting W-{)-m-e-n in their sports program now. That's your Women's Liberation, boy--bunch of goddamn lesbians. You can bet that if you have women around-and I've talked to psychiatrists about this-you aren't gonna be worth a damn. No sir!" 
Man has to dominate There's just no other way. Now just the other day one of my old players came up to see me and this fella was really down in the dumps. Y'see, he's married to one of these liberated gals ... <Hayes goes on to refer to what we might describe as the wife's tendency to be af­fectionate with many men.) And it's a shame, because this fella is in the category of a genius. His 
I.Q. is up around one ninety. And I told him there's an old saying about the best way to treat a woman, andthatistogetthempregnantandhide hershoes. 
Jesus Christ, I'd like to get that goddamn Oberlin on our schedule! We'd show them what DE-humanization is all about." 
In line with Woody's philosophies, it is important to note that he was a staunch Nixon, Agnew, and now Ford supporter. You have to admit he's opinionated, but then so are these three stooges. 
At a downtown Columbus Rotary Club meeting, after prayers for Nixon and an undefeated season, Hayes once said, "Somebody asked me the other day what I thought these so-called critics wanted and I said, 'I know what they want. They want to destroy football.' Well, damnit all, they're NOT going to destroy a very wonderful American in­stitution." 
Nobody's out to destroy your sacred game, Woody. It's just that people want to protect itfrom schmucks like you. 
the corner this year," he says. "And with a little help and by not losing anymore, we can have plenty to say about how high we· finish in the top ten." 
"It was nothing major," says Collins about the midseason resurgence. "We stopped making mental errors, stopped missing assignments and things started rolling for us .. " 
"We've got a lot of momentum right now. We just have to be careful to keep ourselves from letting up." Collins "feels honored" to be a Notre Dame captain, but says many of the seniors functions as '"captains" of sorts. "Our biggest responsibility is to be there if the younger players need some help encouragement. About the only thin_g I'm aware of doing as a captain is trying to keep everyone up, especially if the guys get a little down at practice. I try to keep the guys perked up, keep them in­vovled." 
And many Notre Dame op­ponents know firsthand how in­volved Collins has been . 
Little changein polls
Notre Dame held tight to the number four ani;! five spots in the latest AP 
and UP~ college football polls. . , . 
The Insh we~e ranked number five by AP s_ panel of sp?rtswnters and 
fourth by U~I ~ board of ~oaches._ The Irish ~re behmd Oklahoma, 
Alabam~, Michigan an? O~IO State_ m th~ AP ratmgs. ~he Sooners .are 
not considered by UPI m tts _rankn_tgs smce Oklahom~ IS on probati?n. 
Else"_Vhere, ~he top ten remamed ~Irtually the same With the exc~ptwn 
of Florida "_Vhich dropped to No. 20m the AP and was not ranked tn the 
UPI after Its 41-24 loss to K~ntuc~y. . . 
Bay~or was ranked for t~e first time smce 1~ holdmg down the 16th 
spots ~n bot~ polls while, San Diego St. was rated for the 
first time this year· _Texas ,rech and ~un-Bowl-b?und O~laho'!la State 
both dropped o~t of thi~ week stop twenties along Wtth Flonda w1th Tulsa 
and UCLA takmg their places. 
AP Poll UPI Vote 
Points l Oklahoama ('15) . '~11-0 1.19K I. Alabama (23) 11)..0 ............. ~ . 2 Alabama (9) 111-11-0 1.07H 2. Mlcbigan ( 12) 111-0 . .. .. . :....... 321 .l Michigan (A) . .. 111-11-0 1.1140 1 Ollio State !H . ..... 2ti4l 
4. Clluo State . !1-1-0 R74 4. Notre Dame 9-1 ...204 !i. :'<utre Dame . 1\-1-0 fi39 5. Nebraska 8-2 . 188 
6. 
~ebraska . 1\-2-0 fi:!O I. Auburn t-1.. ..... 1811 

7. 
Auburn !1-1-j) 560 7. Southern Cal 7-1-1 . . . . ....173 K So. California .. 7-1-1 54"' 8. TeJ.as A&M 8-2 .. frl 


9. 
Texas A & M .. 1\-2-0 3i5 t. P~ State 8-2 . . 52 

10. 
Penn State 1\-l-0 311 II. N. Carolina St. 9-2.. 30 II Maryland . 7-:l-0 2:!7 II. Maryland 7·3 . . 25 


12. 
Miami. Ohio !1-11-1 IH7 1:1.. Miami (0.) h!. .... 18 

13. 
No. Caro St !1-2-0 lfiH 13. Houston 8-2 . II t4. Michigan St. 1>-3-1 It:! 14. Tt>xas 7-3 . .. . .. .. .. .. 9 l'i. llou,ton 7-2-j} Jll~ 15. Plttsburgb 7-3 lti. Bavlor 1>-3-0. fi:l .,_ Baylor 5-l ... 


II. Tl-.Xas .. i-3-0 !iO 17. (Tie) Michigan St, :>-3-1 ... IH. Pitt. . . .. 7-3-U 42 UCLAH-2. !9. California 7-2-1 41 Tulsa 7-l :?fl. Florida 7-3-j} :16 211. San Diego St. 7-2 ... 
Ticket details announced 

The Football Ticket Committee announced yesterday that tickets for the January 1 Orange Bowl in Miami will go on sale for Notre Dame students personal use next Monday. They will be available Tuesday, and Wednesday, November 25-27 from 9a.m. to 4p.m. at the ticket windows on the second floor of the ACC. 
As there is no limit on the quantity of tickets available to students, there will be no distinc­tion among classes for ticket sales. 
One thousand tickets at $8.50 will be held. If the demand exceeds this quantity, $7.00 tickets will be sold until that demand is stisfied. 
The Committee stressed that only one reserved seat may be purhased by each student when he presents his own ID card. Married students are the only exception. Upon proof of marriage, they may buy one additional ticket for their spouses. 
If tickets remain after Notre Dame students and contributing alumni are accommodated, they will be ade available to St. Mary's students. Details will be issued as soon as possible. 
Boaters finish 

Notre Dame's soccer team ended its season Wednesday with a 0-0 tie against the University of Wisconsin-Parkside. The tie gives the Irish a final record of 6-7-2. 
Notre Dame had the best chance to score midway in the second half. 
A penalty kick from the left side came into the goal area and a Notre Dame player headed it towards the goal. The ball bounced off the top bar and was cleared by Parkside's defense. Neither team came close to scoring after this near goal. 









