Oa The Inside 
Action express 
.•.page 3 
Senior trip 
... page 5 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 56 Wednesday, December 4, 1974 
Senior Club changes mcmagers 
Not mcmaged consistent with what Student MlaUs vvanted 
by Fred Graver 
Editorial Editor William "Butch" Smith, manager of the Alumni­Senior Club, was dismissed from his position on Tuesday, November 26. Fr. Terrence Lally, associate vice-president for Student Affairs, stated that Smith was dismissed for managing the club "in a manner that was not consistent with what Student Affairs wanted." 
Dean of Students John Macheca, who was directly involved in the dismissal, commented "the decision was with regard to management. I'm not trying to place the blame on any one person, but we were just trying to do the best for the Senior Class." 
Operation of the Alumni-Senior Club will continue through the remainder of the semester, under the co­
management  of  Jim  Swidick,  former  Assistant  
Manager of  the  Club,  and  Jim  Shanahan,  former  
Business Manager.  



Senior Class President Greg Ericksen stated, "Butch was trying to things with the operation that Student Affairs disagreed with. Now, we intend to find out what they are. I think Shanahan and 'Swidick are working in with that intention." 
Smith misled Smith commented on his dismissal by saying, "There were disagreements between us on how the Club should be run, but I was misled into believing I was doing a good job." There were numerous situations where I was patted 
on the back in public," Smith continued. "Within a week before I was let go, Dr. Ackerman told me 'Butch, we are convinced you were the right choice for 
the job." 

Smith said, "two weeks before, I was sitting in the upstairs lounge with Terry Lally, and I asked him how he felt things were going, and he told me, 'Butch, This is the way the club should be run." 
Smith's dismissal was the decision of Lally, Macheca, and Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of special development for student affairs. 
According to Lally, "Smith had to put up with three very demanding bosses, who were uptight from the day one." 
Lally stated the philosophy of the club as "not a place with people passing in and out, but a place run by Student Affairs that seniors could enjoy and use as their own place. 
"There has not been a single project this year in Student Affairs that has taken as much of our time as this one," Lally continued. "It is a place we're totally concerned about. I just wish it had worked out the first time." 
Not consistent with philosophy "There were practical things relating to the in­terpretation of our philosophy in dispute," said Ackerman. Lally stated that, "Butch was constantly in dialogue with us, from the day one, over interpretation of policy. We need a manager who worksconsistentlywith our philosophy, and keeps the place running. It was hard to keep the place straight with Butch. It was the kind of deal where you're operating in a mystery; we weren't 
getting solid answers." 

Lally stated that he, Macheca and Ackerman had 
met with Smith many times to discuss their 
dissatisfaction with the management of the Club. "We 
had a list of eighteen or nineteen things that we had 
told him, but he just refused to admit the problems." 
Smith claimed that he was never given a list of 
problems. "I was never confronted with an enum­
berated list. I think they made it up over break, 
because they didn't show it to me when they fired me." 
"I was never confronted with a situation of 'if you 
don't do this or correct this you will be fired," Smith 
continued. "We met every Monday, Macheca, Lally, 
Ackerman, Shanahan, Swidick and I and I was never 
singled out at meetings or told of changes that had to be 
made. They never pressured me to correct anything," 
Smith stated. 

Ericksen cited the dismissal as "a communication 
problem." "Butch's intentions for the club and the 
intentions fo the Student Affairs office were never 
made clear to each other," Ericksen said. 
Ericksen stated that, "no indication was made that 
Butch would be fired, previous to the actual thing, from 
the StudentAffairsoffice. I wish he would have been 
warned, given a a fair trial or probation period." 
Smith protests firing 
Smith has protested the process of his firing to Unk­versity Personnel Director Joseph O'Brien. Smith claimed }Je whould have been notified in advance of the firing. 
O'Brien has told Fr. Lally that Smith was not covered in any way by the University's policies for dismissal of employees, as he had worked for only twelve days and was still on a trial period. 
"I worked for twelve days as a manager," stated Smith, "but that's not counting the time from the middle of August that I put into the bar." 
Lally also cited dissension among staff members of the Club as a reason for Smith's dismissal. "We weren't looking for a tavern keeper like Toot's Shor, but guys who know a lot of Seniors, were capable of running 1:( Club for them, servicing them, and helping them get along." 
Main issue discussed 

Faculty Senate argues budget review proposai. 
by Pat Cuneo Staff Reporter 
The Faculty Senate engaged in a heated debate over the budget review proposal at the Center for Con­tinuing Education, Tuesday night. 
The Report of the Faculty Senate's Committee on the Budget Review Proposal was the main issue discussed and at at night's end it was determined that the amended report would be circulated to the faculty, administration and Board of Trustees. 
Professor James Danehy, chairman of the report committee, assisted by Professors Paul Conway, Waldemar Goulet and Irwin Press, presented a four page document that outlined the Budget Priorities Committee <BPC). Both the composition and the function of the BPC underwent acute observation by the Senate. 
The Senate adopted an amendment introduced by Professor Vincent DeSantis which directly affects the function of the BPC. It stated that each member of the BPC will be furnished with the financial data that the executive budget committee and the President of the University have compiled. This amendment became necessary because the previous statement contained provisions which limited the scope of the BPC's powers. 
A major portion of the debate 
concerned the composition of the BPC. The twenty-one member committee will include the members of the executive budget committee, the President of the University, one student elected by the student body, one member of the University staff and six members of the faculty (one from each of the four colleges, the law school and the Library) elected by groups that teach will represent. 

A controversial amendment that would also include the deans of the four colleges plus the Dean of the law school and the Director of Libraries was defeated. 
Lastly, the Senate determined that the BPC will make an annual report to the Notre Dame Community. 
In the remaining minutes of the meeting, Senate Chairman Professor James Cushing introduced the topic of a Senate referendum. This referendum would consist of the many motions the Senate has supported or opposed. An example of this would be the Senate's document involving a faculty salary increase which took place last June. The referendum would be presented to the faculty and they would be polled as to whether they agreed or disagreed with the Senate reports. The actual reason for the referendum would be to see the views of the faculty and whether or not the Senate does, in fact, represent the faculty. 
The Senate then accepted a proposal introduced by Professor Robert Kerby which stated that a text-size referendum would be presented for discussion at the next meeting. 
At the opening of the meeting, two letters were read by Professor Cushing which came from Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and Fr. James Burtchaell. Cushing stated that he would write again to Burtchaell because his letter concerning the opportunity for self-evaluation of the Senate was too vague. 
In other business, the Collective Bargaining Report which was previously agreed to by the Senate was again briefly mentioned. 
The Senate's position on religious discrimination in hiring was not mentioned at the meeting but several professors noted that discussion on this topic could not be completed in one meeting. Therefore, after after more research, the Senate will discuss this problem next semester when it meets again. 


the observer Wednesday, December 4, 1974 

I 
I 
I~
,J 
I 
II 
I: 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-House Judiciary Committee members said Tuesday there are some conflicts in Nelson A. Rockefeller's testimony about his knowledge of CIA activities in Chile and White House wiretapping during the Nixon administration. 
Rockefeller told the committee during testimony on his vice­presidential nomination that his only knowledge on the subjects came from newspaper reports months after the events. But several committee members say an investigation by their staff has turned up contradictory evidence. 
LONDON <UPI) -A British government plagued by economic troubles said Tuesday it would cut defense spending by $10.9 million in the next 10 years, including a pullback of most British forces east of Suez except for a reduced Hong Kong garrison. 
CAMDEN, N.J. (UPI) -"Miss Vicki," estranged wife of en­tertainer Tiny Tim, worked as a $5-an-hour go-go dancer to earn enough money to support their 3-year -old daughter, Tulip, it was disclosed Tuesday. 
Miss Vicki's brief go-go career was revealed by the manager of Minnie's Lounge and confirmed by her mother, Emma Budinger. 
OSCEOLA, MO. <UPI) -A flash fire filled a hospital with dense clouds of black smoke Tuesday, asphyxiating six patients. Two other patients died because fire safety devices cut off the oxygen to their oxygen tents. 
Fire officials were investigating the charred interior of the SAC­Osage hospital room to determine the cause of the early morning blaze. 
SAIGON (Upl) -South Vietnamese troops have seized a big Viet 
Cong ammunition dump 32 miles north of Saigon, field officers said 
Tuesday. 
Government troops also stormed a Viet Cong hideout in Hau 
Nghia province, capturing 12 guerrillas in the lair a mile from the 
province capital of Khiem Hanh. 23 field officers said the VietCong 
cache was discovered on a tip and contained 12,000 rounds of rifle 
and rocket ammunition, mortar shells, antiaircraft shells, hand 
grenades and 600 explosive charges. 

an campus taday 
4:30 pm --lecture, "hadron production In high energy electron positron Interactions at slac," by dr. harvey lynch, coffee at .4: 15, rm 118, nieuwlaand science hall. 
5:00 pm --vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
6:30pm-meeting, nd sailing club, all members should attend, rm 204 eng bldg. 
7:00 pm --madrigal dinners, tickets: $6.50 per person, for reser­vations call 284-.4176, regina north lounge. 
7:30pm--lecture, "transcendental meditation," by carol dickson, rm 201, architecture bldg. 
8:10 pm --basketball, nd vs. northwestern, ace. 
8:15 pm --concert, marjorie maday, soprano; milton hallman, pianist, plano and song literature of chopin and llszt, library aud. 
11:00 pm --mass, special advent service, fr. sebastian moore, marquette university, sacred heart church. 
c·ss.99Ga.. 


w~~~~~~~'w 
CORNER OF IRONWOOD & STATE ROAD 23 
(ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART) 

2 7 2. 0 0 8 3 
•. 
BE 'SURE TO ASK FOR 10 PERCENT ND-SMC DISCOUNT ON EVERYTHING EXCEPT GAS • 
.... .. .. 41 ... 
(While

Supply 

Lasts) 

In ND dining hall 
BOO students gobble turkey 
by Andy Praschak Staff Reporter 
Over eight hundr•ed students partook of Thanksgiving dinner in the Notre Dame dining hall, ac­
cording to Edmund Price, Director of Notre Dame Food Services. "We expected morE~ students to 
come than did," remarked Price. 
He explained that estimates were made using figures obtained from last year's Thanksgiving meal. 
"However, there are always different variables affecting the count. from year to year•" Price expl~med.. . h 
Pnce sa1d that the only t~me t e numbers were underestimated


d d f 
break and also because they like to
Pl. 

ans roppe Or make the Thanksgiving 
organizing trip to Orange Bowl 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
Student Services Commissioner Rich Golden stated yesterday that plans for organizing a student trip to the Orange Bowl have been cancelled. 
Golden said that the Student Union, under the dire<:tion of Pat Burke, felt that there would not be enough student interest to make 
such a project work.

Admitting that the Irish Defeat atSouthernCallast Saturday was a prime factor in the Student Union's decision, Golden said some prov1s1ons for student ac­comodations might still be made, "but that's more difficult to arrange. We have nothing definite planned." 
ACC Ticket Manager Don Bouffard could not be reached for comment on the possible effect Saturday's defeat may have on ticket sales for the Orange Bowl. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame ~d St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dilme, Ind. 
46556. 






0-C STUDENTS 
STARV!E A THIEF FOR CHRISTMAS I 

Leave Valuables; Clothes, Books, Stereos, Radios and Appliances with Volunteer Staff and Faculty Families for the Christmas Break 
CALL STUDENT GOV'T {283-7668) THIS WEEK 
LEAVE NAME AND PHONE NUMBER IF INTERESTED 
re at "Y~our Own Risk" Rather Than 
Leaving "At High Risk"! 
was the Friday after Thanksgiving 
when 1,223 students showed up for 
dinner. "We 've tried issuing 
surveys before the break, but this 
method is often misleading also," 
he noted. 
According to Price, it is difficult to say why the dining halls 
remained open during Thanksgiving break but not during 
the one in October. "We can only
make recommendations; the decision to remain open or closed during a break is made on the administrative level." said Price. Price suggested that some of the reasons they remained open during this break were that not everyone 
can get home over such a short 

r-----=H~A~M~L~E~---.. 
Starring: Nichol Williamson 
Sat. December 7 
7:00 & 10:00 P.M 

l;.iiiii~fi!i~=i~iiiiifii~:.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitii;;i;ii;;jiii;;;~ 

:r: 
RESERVATIONS
J-­
284·4176 
ALL SEATS
SMC 



THEATRE $.75 
for YOUNG PEOPLE 

BEAUTY AND THE BEAST 
A New Drama for Young People Based on the Beloved Fairy Tale December 7, 8, 14, 15 at 2:00P.M. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
dinner something special for the students. Price found it interesting but not 
surprising to note that very few students showed up for breakfast during the entire break. 
During the break, everyone on the staff was given their days off, even though there were two University holidays in this period, noted Price. "We also tried to get some extra cleaning and fixing up done in our spare time," said Price. 
Besides making Thanksgiving special, Price said that the quality of the food was kept consistent with normal standards. Price con­cludedby saying, "We try to do our best all the time. After all, 
'Service' is our middle name." 



~~~~-~----~--~~ -~-~~~ ---~--~~ -------~--------------~~-~-~--~-----~---~ 
Ways and Means Committee 
Discusses Mills' problem 

Washington UPI -Speaker Carl Albert said today he did not feel Rep. Wilbur Mills has "fully recovered" from a recent illness.. 
"I don't think he's feeling well," Albert told newsmen as tal of removing Mills, D-Ark., from his post as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee increased in the halls of the Capitol. 
Members of the committee have been meeting quietly to discuss Mills' problems, which climaxed with his appearance on stage with a stripper in Boston last weekend. The consensus has been that Mills probably must be removed. 
"Everybody sits down, almost cries, and says he has to go," said one high-ranking committee member. 
Asked about the situation by newsmen, Albert replied: "I might as well go ahead and 
Doobie Brothers rescheduled 
say this. I don't think Wilbur Mills has fully recovered from his ... -Albert's voice trailed off­
... whatever." 
After thinking a moment, he added, "I'm not talking about any other thing -only his physical condition." 
Mills, who has long suffered from a minor heart condition, had major back surgery last year that kept him away from his work for eight months. 
Mills, who by virtue of his committee chairmanship held the country's tax laws in his grip, was re-elected Nov. 5 despite the publicity of his relationship with the shapely stripper. 
Mills has come under increasing pressure and criticism because of his relationship with the stripper Fanne Foxe. The Arkansas Gazette, the largest newspaper in 


When will I be able to turn in my Doobie Brothers tickets for my refund? 
The A.C.C.has already been accepting Doobie .. Brothers tickets and refunding money. In fact, today is the last day that they will be able to refund your money to you. THE AC.C. ticket office hours are from 9:00am to 5:00pm. 
When will we have to be back for the spring semester? 
According to the Academic calendar January 13 is orientation for new students, the 14th is Registration Day and on the 15th classes begin at 8:00 a.m. You must be back here by January 14 for registration. More specific instructions will be sent to you along with your Statement of Student's Account. 
I've noticed recently that the steps leading up to the Administration Building have been partially covered with wooden steps, are they being repaired or something? 
Actually the wooden steps are there as a safeguard. During the col 
winter months in Indiana large deposits of ice tend to accumulate on cold hard surfaces, including the steps leading up to the Dome. However ice does not as readily adhere to wood as it does to stone steps, so as a safety measure half of the steps have been covered with wooden steps to prevent any accidents. 
NOTE: The Ombudsman Service has resumed operations. If you need any help we are there for you, willing and able, just call us at 7638weekdays 9:30 to 5:00 and Monday through Thursday evenings 
10:00 to midnight. 

For December 10 in ACC 
by Bill Gonzenbach 
Staff Reporter 

The Doobie Brothers Concert, which was postponed November 23, has been rescheduled for Tuesday, December 10 at 8:30pm in the ACC. "Tickets sold for the November 23 concert will be honored at the rescheduled con­cert," said Don Bouffard, ACC ticket manager. 
"Anyone who wants a refund for their ticket must turn it in to the ticket office by 5 p.m. at Gate 10 on December 4," Bouffard added. 
The concert was originally postponed because Tom Johnson, lead guitarist and vocalist for the Doobie Brothers, developed an infection of the pancreas on Friday November 22. 
The band cancelled all per­formanced for a week after Johnson's illness. However, they are now continuing their regularly scheduled tour. 
In other concert news, Black Oak Arkansas is scheduled to perform December 17 in the ACC. Pete 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-7555 
3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond.,_ Phones. Send this ad to your parents. 
his home state, Monday called for him to "Forego his public in­discretions," and the Cincinnati Post and Times Star today said Mills had made a "fool of himself." 
Events Monday cost Mills his power to make House committee assignments and the Democtatic caucus voted today to expand his Ways and Means Committee from 25 to 37 members -presumably to pack it with liberal Democrats. 
Senior Women 

planning dinner 
for December 6th 
by Natalie Theresa Stewart Staff Reporter 

The Senior Women Students at Notre Dame are planning a dinner for Friday, Dec. 6, in the Faculty Dining {toom of the South Dining Hall. 
Preceding the dinner is a wine and cheese party at the K of C between 5 and 6 p.m. The dinner begins at 6:00p.m. A small fee of $1.50 will be charged on-campus women and $2.50 for off-campus women. 
If any senior woman has not yet made a reservation, please contact Mary McCann, 7938 no later than 
Wednesday. 

Helping with invitations and reservations in the various halls are Gigi Masse in Breen-Phillips and Farley, Jude Bremer in Walsh, Melanie Marshall in Badin, Debbie Street in Lyons, and Janet Denefe for off-campus women. 
McCann, who is in charge of the dinner, explained the importance of such a dinner, saying, "Since the stay-hall system only started this year for women, many of the women in our class have lived in a different dorm every year." 
"This dinner will provide a pleasant atmosphere for all of us to get together with friends from the past and also to get to know more of the women in our class," McCann stated. 
Any senior women able to help 
with final preparations are asked 
to contact McCann. McCann said 
she hoped as many senior women 
as possible would be involved in 
the dinner. 

Wednesday, December 4, 1974 the observer 
3 

Congressman Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, will speak 
on "A Civil Rights Agenda for the Mid-Seventies" on Thursday, 
December 5, at 8 p.m., in the Center for Continuing Education 
Audito~ium. Rangel, a lawyer, is a member of the House Judiciary 
Comm1Hee. He plays an important leadership role in Congress as 
Chairman of the influential Congressional Black Caucus. 
Congressman Rangel's visit is sponsored by the Center for Civil 
Rights. 
************************************
* ~ 
~ IVJICHIGAN STREF:I' ~ i ADULT THEATRES i 
* * 
~ X 2 F1LIVB ~ 
* * 
~ X BOOKSI'CH: ~ 
* *
i X LIVE ft.CXE SHOW i ~ 1316 SaJrH MICI-IGAN STREEl' ! 
if*.'-.!~~~~~2t!~.'i!~!9MM!19!i!. 
KEN'S DEN 
BARBER-HAIRSffiiNG 
-Award winning stylists 
-Unique atmosphere 
Rottler styling products 
703 LWW 

(ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER) 
Phme 255-6500 .......r..r..,....intments 

errEd 
CELEBRATING 

ADVENT 
AS A PRAYING PEOPLE 
A SPECIAL AD·V E NT SERVICE 
FR. SEBASTIAN 
MOORE, GUEST HOMILIST 
THIS WED., DEC. 4, ·11 P.M. 
Sacred Heart Church 
CO-SPONSORED BY CAMPUS MINISTRY & THEOLOGY DEPT. 
Kernan, South Bend and Notre Dame representative for Sunshine Promotions, has announced that rock group Jo Jo Gunne will also appear with Black Oak Arkansas. Tickets for the concert are 

available at the ACC and the regular downtown outlets. They will also be available at the Student Union Ticket Office this week. Ticket prices are $6,$5, and 
$4. 


the observer 
Wednesday, December 4, 1974 


To Ara And The Team 
Dear Editor: 
I present here a few quotes from 
various sources; I believe they 
speak for themselves: 
Los Angeles Times, December 2, 
1974: 
John McKay mildly needled Ara Parseghian for suggesting that cold weather hampered Notre Dame's preparation for the USC game and contributed to his team's second half collapse Saturday afternoon at the Coliseum. 
"The cold weather didn't seem to 
bother him the weekend he beat us 
51-0 (1966)," the USC coach said 
Sunday afternoon. "We have to 
play back there in October and it's 
not exactly sunshine ... usually cold 
and wet weather." 
After Notre Dame lost to USC, 55-24, while being outscored, 49-0 in the second half, Parseghian said: "Our problem is that we did not have a good week of preparation. It was. 20 to 30 degrees all week. The cold weather seems to thicken the blood or something." 
Parseghian is considering the possibility of rescheduling the USC game in Los Angeles earlier in the season. 
"I may discuss this with our 1 administration," he said, "about playing this game every year on a comparable day in October. For the last month we've had cold weather and this affects us playing out here." 
Regarding this, McKay said, 
·we'll play Notre Dame in July if I hey want or anytime they want to ·1lay." 
The Observer, November 25, 
1!174: 
For Notre Dame, offense and defense will be prime con­siderations, of course, but playing away from home is definitely a factor. 
"Playing out there could be a problem," said Ara. "We're not used to the heat and it could make a difference." 
The Scholastic Football Review, l<'t•bruary 1, 1974, on the 23-14 defeat of USC: 
Afterwards, in the visitors' locker room, Trojan coach John McKay was humming the "Fight .Song." "There is," he told his surprised listeners, "nothing else to hum. They won the game. 
DOONESBURY 
That's it. They were well prepared." 
It seems that there are, indeed, more graceful ways to lose than to consider the climate a factor. If this were the case (as argued in the 
L.A. Times above), wouldn't a loss to Alabama, playing them as we do in the dead of winter, have been a foregone conclusion last year? And suppose the USC game were to be moved to October when we play in L.A .... Wouldn't that be all the more reason to be concerned (as Ara was in The Observer above) about the heat in Southern California? 
Complaints about the weather, the field, and other such conditions can usually be dismissed as alibis. And of course, the partisan newspapers can be expected to capitalize on such comments to the home team's benefit. But even taking this into consideration, an article such as the following seems to have no basis for its charges: 
Los Angeles Times, December 1, 1974: 
Halfback Eric Penick, whose fourth'<)uarter fumble set up USC's seventh touchdown, sat in front of his locker and worried more about 
the  immediate  future  than  the  
immediate past.  
"Oh,  no,"  he  muttered  to  

teammate Wayne Bullock, "now we've gotta go back home." 
He remembered how it was two years ago when the Irish returned to South Bend after Anthony Davis had embarrassed them with six TDs. 
"It was worse then," he said, "the way people got on us about it and the way we felt." 
He sighed heavily. "The older you get, the more you realize you can accept it when things go 
wrong·," he said. "When you're younger -say, a freshman or a sophomore-and you lose a game, it seems like the end of the world." 
"Sure, we feel bad. There's not any player in here who doesn't. But we all realize we were trying ... trying to do our best." 
Then he wondered about the reception, how hostile it might be, in South Bend. 
"Those fans," he said. "They love us when we win. Now ... we'll see if they're still a part of us." 
I see no better way the student body could have expressed its support for the team than by its actions over the past few days. It was with two minutes left in the fourth quarter that those of us who were able to make the trip stood up in the stadium and sang the Vic­tory March, in spite of the fact that 
171& 81165, 
OFF TO? ar~-I Cot/l/JN'T IE/..PI NOTIONG THe BAGS. 
see how some places--especially state schools-really soak their students. Notre Dame, as a private university looks rather reasonable in comparison. 
zi noticed last year myself that the 6:00-6:30 eaters end up getting the short end of the deal. But perhaps that could be somewhat due to the students who work in the cafeteria who want to get out so they can start studying (or ·whatever) I can't be sure about that, though. In any care, one article is not going to make the cafeteria workers mend their ways. Perhaps a joint complaint by the inconvenienced students would help. I would also suggest to students who don't get replies to their suggestions to talk to Mr. Price personally. Usually that'sminus a band, our voices. did not "The Tonight Show." It seems as the only way you can get an answercarry far. Nonetheless, we sang it. 

though the only "coach" who when dealing with anyLess than an hour ago, I left a wears his school's sweatshirt to the organization.
very disappointed crowd of game should start looking for We have all read about the foodstudents at the circle. The pep another source of divine in­crisis and gross hunger problem inrally which was organized there spiration. the world. But obviously none of usand led by the band was quickly has ever felt real hunger. Oc­
aborted because of the impersonal Name withheld on Request casionally will go on
someone aarrival of the buses and their quick crash diet, but that is not the kinddeparture, without a word from of hunger that blinds or disablesthe coaches or the players. 

the mind. I'm not saying that The stud~nts who made it there we're gluttons and I'm not

Europe 74

tonight proved that Eric was ripping off my mother's "people wrong, that the students are still are starving in Africa" line. Butbehind the team. Ara, why didn't the United States has so much­Dear Editor,the buses stop to acknowledge this even compared to Europe, which is 
This letter may seem a bit anti­

display? Eric, why didn't you get no means And we
by primitive.
climactic, but being in Innsbruck

off the bus and greet the fans, must never forget for one minute
causes us to receive the news from

whose loyalty you doubted just a the people living in our ownNotre Dame a little later.
few days back in the L.A.papers? 
backyards who are hungry.
I have a very strong objection 

I know we lost, but I think all we Please, think twice before
to the article on Dining Halls by

lost was the game. When people complaining about food at Notre
Hugh Harmon. From my

say that Notre Dame has lost its Dame. If there are problems for
European eating experiences I can 

spirit, however, I know at least one enough students, I think the
see that Notre Dame students have 

crowd of cold people, and a band, situation can be changed. God
who have something to say. I very little to complain about as far <I we have better
knows, hope)wonder if you've listened hard as cuisine at Notre Dame--quantity things to do with our minds thanenough ... and quality--goes. While it is true meditate on food all day long. 
Mike Savino '75 that there are no provisions made Sincerely,
for people who must have special 
C. M. Fahrenbachdiets in the regular dining halls, arrangements can be made for such students in the pay cafeteria. 

Era With Ara 
As far as vegetarians go, I have At The known two to have survived last Dear Editor, year at Notre Dame. BookstorePeople here in lnnsbruck eat
As a 1970 alumnus of the 
meat 3 times a week on the

University of Notre Dame, I am Dear Tom: 
average. The cuts of meat are not

well aware of the new "era" with Sometimes I wonder what the 
very good--nowhere near the

Ara. I have been a staunch en­hierarchy of values are at our
quality we enjoy in the United

thusiast for the Fighting Irish beloved university.
States. At Notre Dame we can

teams that Mr. Parseghian has so The Yale University Press has
eat meat as many as 3 times a day,

"flawlessly" coached. We have just released a book by our
and we can go back for seconds

suffered through humiliating President, Father Hesburgh,
and thirds except on steak night.

defeats to Purdue, Michigan State, entitled The · Humane Imperative
There are also usually at least 2

and of course, our obvious analyzing many serious problems
different entrees to choose from.

nemesis, Southern California-­facing the United.States in the final 
This is not to mention vegetables,

even when these teams were quarter of the twentieth century,
soup, beverages, salad, and

supposedly outmanned and out­including the protein shortage and 
dessert which are all unlimited.

classed! impending world famine which
We in the Innsbr.uck program

It seems as though the only poses a moral crisis for all 
are not eating poorly. In fact I

reason that Mr. Parseghian was thoughtful Americans. Kingman
think we eat better than the

hired at Notre Dame was because Brewster, the President of Yale,
average Austrian. Yet our diet is

of his perfect record against the recognizing the quality of the book
about two-thirds or more starch.

Irish at Northwestern. Is this the and the importance of the message 
Many people in our group are

price Notre Dame must pay to beat that it brings, wrote the forward.
losing weight, but no one is star­

the lowly Wildcats? If this is, The problems discussed by Father
ving. I think we all feel better with are awesome,
Notre Dame should have given Hesburgh but he
the exception of a few colds.

John McKay his own fieldhouse. ends the book on a note of hope.
As for the 21 meal a week plan, I

One must remember that the When I went to buy the book 
agree that it does hurt the people

personnel that Notre Dame has Friday, I found a few copies tucked 
who don't eat breakfast. I also

had during Mr. Parseghian 's away on one of the shelves. 
agree that we should know where

tenure has been topflight, in­Prominently displayed on a large 
our room and board money is

cluding the recent edition of the table at the entrance to the second 
going. But I am reasonably sure

Fighting Irish. When one asks for floor is a book by our basketball 
that this plan enables the food

an "audience" with Mr. Par­coach which the Bookstore has 
service to provide the quantity and 

seghian, as I did this fall for a widely advertised across campus.
pretty good variety that we get at What, I ask you, are the in­graduate research project, one is 
Notre Dame. It would also be a

informed that Mr. Parseghian's tellectual and moral priorities of 
good idea for people who question

hours are from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. and our university? 
room and board costs to check Frederick W. Dowthat he is "too busy." Even John costs out at this universities and Professor of MarketingMcKay found the time to appear on 
by Garry Trudeau the observer 
'cOURSEtW& 
AIN'T U/ai?K&P 
Ol/T lH~ FINAL. 
Pfllllts Y&T.. I UH-HUH. 
" 

Night Editor -AI Rutherford Ass't Night Editor • Ginny Faust Layout • Marti Hogan Copy Reader -Ken Bradford Day Editor • George Velclch 
Editorials  -Ken Girouard  
Sports • Bob Kissel  
Typists  • Barb  Norcross,  Nell  VIII,  Jim  
Landis, Don Roos  
Compugraphic Operator •  Phll  Orscheln,  
Howard Halle  

Picture Screener • Albert D'Antonio Night Controller • M. J. Foley 
Wednesday, December 4, ·1974 the observer 
5 

Senior trip considered a success 
by Ellen Syburg Spann, vice-president; Joe Hen­
Staff Reporter derlong, secretary; and Chris 
Fenn, treasurer. 

Although the game was a Six hundred and seventeen disappointment and two late students, including about five flights delayed the return of some hundred seniors, made the trip. students until 5:00 a.m. Tuesday The students took buses to Chicago morning, the Senior Class Trip to and then flew to Los Angeles in Los Angeles for the ND-USC game four planes. seems to have been a success. On the return trip, the two flights 
Greg Ericksen, Senior Class scheduled to leave at 3:00 and 3:30 President said, "Despite these pm (6:00 and 6:30p.m. South Bend problems, everyone had a great time) were delayed when the time." The trip was organized by planes did not arrive in Los the class officers: Ericksen; Bob Angeles on time from their 
Sorin and SlVIC to sponsor square dance this Friday 
by Matt Yolom Staff Reporter 

Norbert Schickel, Vice-President of Sorin Hall, yesterday announced his hall and the Saint Mary's Social Commission are co­sponsoring a square dance, Friday December 6 at Stepan Center. Schickel said the square dance will last from 8:00p.m. until12:00 p.m. and all Notre Dame and St. Mary's staff. faculty and students are invited. 
The admission price is 25 cents for adults and children free. 
The unique thing abou this dance, Schickel stated "is the fact we are encouraging all the people from the ND and SMC family to attend, not just staff or faculty or students, but all three along with their families." 
"As far as I know, this is the first time all these people have been invited for one social event along with students," he continued. 
Bob Barnes will call for the 
square dance along with square 
dancing records Schickel reported. 
"We'll have banners, strunk lights 
lanterns, straw, a barn door 
painted on cardboard as an en­
trance, and possibly a water 
trough for atmosphere." Refresh­
ments will consist of apples, 
popcorn, peanuts, ham, soft drinks 
and donuts. 
Schickel said about 3500 in­
vitations to faculty and staff were 
sent out by Sorin Hall and the SMC 
Social Commission. "The SMC 
Social Commission is contacting 
people at St. Mary's and generally 
working with us on the whole 
proiect," Schickel said. 
"No knowledge of square dan­cing is necessary; all you have to do is listen to the caller" Schickel said. He also stated "any inspired 
dress  is  welcome  but  not  
required."  
Schickel  recalled  "the  last  

· square dance we had went super." 
-"We were hoping for about 500 people, but we got nearly 1000 and a lot of people suggested having another one," he continued. Schickel concluded "one of the reason we want to open it up to everyone is to fost the idea of the family, which included the staff and faculty as well as the students." 
Schickel was appointed ND Student Union Social Com­missioner last week. 
No off-campus burglaries noted over vacation 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, Director of Off-Campus Residents informed the Observer no burglaries or other incidents had been reported over break or by students retur­ning to their South Bend residences. 
Tallarida also added that his office is working with the police to compile a list of all burglaries of off-campus residents during November. A similar list was drawn up earlier for September and October. 
previous flights. The 3:00 flight finally left at 7:00p.m. (10:00 S.B. time) and arrived back at Notre Dame about 4:30 a.m. 
The 3:30 group did not arrive until 5:00 a.m. because they en­countered another delay when their bus from Chicago to South Bend experienced an electrical system failure. The students were forced to wait in LaPorte, Indiana until another bus arrived to bring them back to campus. 
The loss to USC was another frustrating part of the trip. Ericksen said, "The first half was great but in the second half, just like everyone else, we couldn't believe it." He added that the fans from USC were very hospitable and that "USC is a classy team." 
Fenn stated, "Our fans were great; there was no comparison between our spirit and theirs. The Notre Dame alumni out there are unbelievable. 
Unlike much of. the rest of the country, the weather in Los Angeles was very good. "We had sunshine and blue skies all the time and temperatures as high as 83," Ericksen commented. 
The nice weather enabled the officers to organize an informal student driving and no one was injured. 

With the added 1mobility of a car, the students were free to go where they chose. Universal Studios, Disneyland, Sunset Strip, Las Vegas, San Francisco, San Diego and Tijuana,Mexico went some of the frequent choices. One student even went to Aspen, Colorado to ski. Ericksen said, "Everyone was free to go where they wanted. We didn't restrict ourselves by scheduling group activities." 
Activity at night was varied, with some students choosing to go to dinner at a fancy restuarant or frequenting the area bars. The officers mentioned Bib Daddy's,
k · Foreign Car Parts Co.
e>Parts & accessories for imported car 
Re1 ion•' fc1r all makes at lowest prices. 
Distributor 
'************************* 
·~For NO Students, Faculty & Staff 10 * 
* percent discount with 1 D & pur-~ !chase of $10 or more. * 
************************. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland' So. Bend 
Jim Tucker Agent 

Tt'o ry lllilqt'o Aq<•nt 
Fix your own burger the way you.Two locations like itat our new Works Bar. 
Help yourself to lettuce, tomatoes, 
1716 N. Ironwood 
onions, relish and pickles. If mustard , O U S 31 N h. and catsup are all you want, it's there
5292 • • Orf for you too. Have as much or as little as you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar (at Cleveland Rd.) ...andbuildyourburgerjusttheWay 
you want it. · 


Phol Tl'olh AQf'llt 
L_____________________________________________________________________________________ _ 
Brennan's and Tom Bergin's as some of the favorites. Several .groups of students were able to attend the Tonight Show and on Wednesday the Irish cheerleaders sang the victory march on the air. 
All in all, Henderlong said, "Everything ran really smoothly with no major problems and everyone enjoyed themselves." The officers expressed their thanks to all the people who assisted them in theplanning and the students who went on the trip. 
"Everyone really cooperated to make it a success" Fenn said. He added that those seniors who are awaiting refunds will be notified of status as soon as possible. 
pep rally on the beach the night ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-·iiij~~~·~~~--~··~~~~
before the game. "People just sat 1 on the beach and had a good time together," Ericksen said. ~ltKKA ~t'UKI~ 
Henderlong stated, "One of the 

backpacking & wilderness equipment
best things about the trip was the fact that the seniors got to know some of the other people in their 

class." NOW OPEN••• featuring 
The hotel accomodations worked very well according to the officers. Fenn said, "The service was all types of packs, frames, tents,
fantastic and the people were very helpful and friendly." Ericksen ·sleeping bags, freeze-dried food 
added, "They were cooperative and let us have a good time. When as we// as outerwear and boots we arrived they had maps to a local bar prepared for us." 
"The management com­

·~.2216 MIAMI 233-8383 
plimented our whole group on their behavior. There was no damage reported and they said we were, by far, the best group they had ever had," Hernderlong stated. The Notre Dame students occupied 
~ 
'it .

about one-third the hotel's rooms. 
• As a part of the trip package, ·­cars were rented, one each to the 
I
four people sharing a room. "The cars worked out very well. They 

j
had all arrived within two hours after we did," 

Torn McM.1hon /\f RclliolllO
Ericksen noted there were two 

Gt>nt·r .11 1\q,•nf Aq,•nt
minor accidents involving the cars. Neither was the fault of the 


'Tearafter vear~
At BURGER CHEF ~ .•give your sandwich 

I semester·after
the "works" at 

semester~ the CollegeMaster

NO EXTRA CHARGE 

from Fidelitv 
Union Life lias been the most accepted. most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
• 
Call the 

~ 
Fidelity Union CollegeMaster .Field Associate 
myour area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
·~~ 
·At'~ 
G)llc<.:!L'Mastcr
L 



--------------------~-----·----------~-­
the observer Wednesday, December 4, 1974 

To discuss problems informally 

Ombuds~nan hosts reception 
by Mary Fran Hayes Theguestsof honor at this event Asst. Prof of Physics; Dr. Lillian Starr Reporter are Jim Zorn, presently the Deputy Stanton, President of the Women s ' Director of the service who Commission of South Bend. 
All sectors of the University will will take over as Director of McLean stated that 600 in­be able to meet and discuss any the Ombudsman, and the Om­vitations were sent to hall rectors, problems they might have with budsman Advisory Board: Dean R.A.'s, administrators and student each other on an informal basis William Berry, (Chairman), representatives. McLean also Thursday Dec. 5 at a Reception Assistant Dean of Engineering; stated that anyone was welcome to sponsored by the Ombudsman. James Roemer, Asst. vice­stop in. McLean echoed Cockrell 
president. and General Counsel; in that the purpose of the Re­"This Reception also provides Father F James Riehle, rector of ception was to thank the Om­
the opportunity to thank all the budsman ''as well as
Pangborn; Joanne Szafran, rector workers,Ombudsman workers," explained of Walsh, Juan Garcia, graduate providing a chance to smooth anyJunior Matt Cockrell, Internal student in the History dept.; ruffled feathers that might haveDevelopment Officer of the Mildred Kristowski, Law School occurred during the semester."

Ombudsman. 

Placement Director; Dean Robert Ombudsman is a branch of Waddick, Asst. Dean of Arts & Student Government and 
The Reception will be Letters; Richard Sullivan, responsible for the establishment from 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. on the third Registrar; Dean Peter Grande, of the "Quickie." "The Re-floor of LaFortune. Punch and Asst. Dean of Freshman Year; ceptiongives us a chance to handle Christmas cookies will be served Dean Vincent Raymond, Assoc. any complaints, get information and there will be some Christmas Dean of Business\ Dr. Robert that will be of interest to the decorations. Bill McLean, Om­Ackerman, Dir. of Professional students, and provides a chance budsman Director emphasized Dev. Student Affairs; Prof. for different parts of the Univer­that they are trying to keep the Gregory Curme, Assoc. Prof. of sity to get together," added cost of the Reception down. Economics; Fr. James Shilts, McLean. 
Last-minute affair 

Pep rally greets temns arrival i 
by Bill Flanagan said. "Even though they lost, they McLean noted that Edmund Stan Reporter never really gave up. I wanted to Price, Director of Food Services, show that we aren't fair-weather was "extremely cooperative" as
The 55-24 debacle in California 
friends." making an

on Saturday did little to dampen far as announcement 
for the rally in the dining halls.
the spirits of the Irish football fans Bender went to Bill McLean, 

The schedule was disrupted
as hundreds of enthusiasts Director of the Ombudsman assembled at the Main Circle on Service, and the plans for the rally when the plane carrying the Irish • •• Monday night to greet the team as quickly took shape. The Om­football team encountered strong •• • 
they arrived back at the campus. budsman facilities were put into head winds and was rlelayed. The •• Califor11ia •• arrived
The idea of the pep rally was action and arrival times were team busses at ap­proximately 10:15 witlh the band •• • Originals •••thought of by Dave Bender, a checked and double-checked, 
freshman from Sorin Hall. Bender announcements were printed and playing the fight song and the fans • came up with the idea while distributed and Campus security screaming "Beat Barna." •• •• • 
Several people said they were The Original California Topless Waitress: In 1961,
returning to the campus after was informed, as was Bro. Just •
disappointed when the busses George "Could-you-come-a-little-closer" Roth
Thanksgiving break. Paczesny, Vice President for didn't stop at the circle to unload. •• ••• Security explained that the

"Iwas proud of them," Bender Student Affairs. (a near-sighted but talented customer), mistook 
the strings ofwaitress Julia Burke's blouse for large
original plans were to have the
Lizt and Chopin songs performed busses unload at the circle, but the • strands of spaghetti, and speared them. As her large crowd prevented it. Instead, blouse began to open, Julia walked away from the
•

the busses took the players to the table, and into history. After staring for severaltonight by Madey and Hallman A.C.C. • • •• minutes, George's only comment was, "OK, make
McLeans said that "a lot of
A vocalist and one of America's the age of seven. J. Hallman that two glasses of milk:'
effort" went into the rally to
foremost interpreters of Poulenc's received graduate degrees in •• 
organize it in such a short time. Burgie Beer: Burgie is original California beer. The
music, Marjorie Haward Madey of music at Florida State University People such as Price, Augie Grace,
New York City, will be joined by •• • first great, light beer brewed in California, over 100 •
and has been associated with the 

Junior Class President, Charley
Dr. Milton Hallman, pianist, of Louisiana school as a professor years ago. The original light, golden beer, brewed
Moran and Bob Bode, both of the
Louisiana State University, in a since 1966. He has performed at ••
Ombudsman Service, deserve a with atrue Western taste. And if you don't believe 
program of works by Chopin and

• Lizst at 8:15 p.m. Wednesday <Dec. 4) in the Memorial Library Auditorium of the University of Notre Dame. The program is sponsored by the Music Depart­ment and is open to thepublic without charge. Madey received her early voice training at theJulliard School and was a musical colleague of Francis Poulenc. The contemporary French composer selected her to sing the American premiere of his one-woman opera, "The Human Voice," and theCBS network picked her to star in the same work in 1963, the year of Poulenc's death. She made her Town Hall debut in New York and presented a series of concerts throughout Mexico at the request of the U.S. State Department. 
A serious student of music since 
TRAVEL RESERVATIONS 
~~· 
GRUENINGER TRAVEL' 291-4810 Mon-Frl 10 • 9 Sat. 10-6 Sun. 12 • 5:30 
UPPER LEVEL 

SCOTTSDALE MALL 



--~ -----~~--------------------­

--~--~---­
On veterans' benefits 
House overrides Ford's veto 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The House today voted overwhelm­ingly to override President Ford's veto of a bill that would provide the largest increase in veterans' educational benefits since World War II. 
As the House was voting, the White House announced that Ford would send to Congress a request for an $814 million supplemental appropriations re­quest if the Senate also decides 
Nessen discounts criticism~~~f ~~~?~~ 1 d~l~~;:.~. by over a 
He said that Ford had 

Of Ford's lack of leadershl.p supported 
an 18lf2 per cent
increase in the measure but felt 

WASHINGTON <UPI) Press Secretary Ron Nessen admitted today there is a "growing sense of frustration" in the White House over criticism that President Ford has not provided enough leadership to deal adequately with the nation's economic problems. 
Nessen said such criticism is 
"unfair," and he took particu­
lar issue with remarks of Sen. 
Barry Goldwater, R-Ariz., who 
said Monday that Ford should 
leave Air Force One in the 
hangar for the next eight 
months and concentrate instead 
on domestic matters. 
Defending Ford's recent Far East trip as one which "was important and resulted in accomplishments," Nessen sug­gested in return that members of Congress "put their air travel card in mothballs" and act on Ford's 31-point program designed to meet the problems of inflation, recession and energy shortages. 
He noted that Congress took vacations during the November elections and Thanksgiving and will be leaving again soon for the Christmas holidays. 
"Obviously, the economic situation is serious and there is a growing sense of frustration in the White House," Nessen said. "The comments that the President is not dealing with the sagging economy -this seems to be unfair." 
"The President has a long range view and a plan for the economy and within that plan he is reviewing constantly the shift ... The overall plan is for curing this sick economy is to get rid of the long range deep inflation." 
Ford, he said, is "frustrated for the country. He wants to get the country out of this economic mess and unless Congress acts, it's unfair." 
At a news conference Monday 
Mail to Angers can be sent to Belgium 
Despite the recent French Postal Service's difficulties in delivering mail, Notre Dame students wishing to send letters or packages to the Notre Dame-Angiers Program members may do so by addressing the mail to Belgium. From Brussells, the matter will be carried to the Angiers Campus. 
The address is: C-Q James Ward, 
B.P. 1643; 1000 Brussells I; Belgium 
THINK ... CQ.LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA 
.~. .. . . . ~ . ·~ .... .. .. .. . -... . ~ ' 
to override the veto. 
The House action set up the possibility of a third consecu­tive congressional rejection of a presidential veto. The Senate was scheduled to vote on the override attempt later today and was expected to provide far more than the two-thirds majority required to override. 
White House Press secretary Ron Nessen told reporters that Ford believes the legislation is inflationary and that if Con-
night, the President explained ~hat the nea~ly 2~ per cent the results of the Far East trip l~lcrease was '':lflatl~nary at a and the new U.S. -Soviet arms time when he IS trymg to cut agreement which he signed in the budge_t. Russia. He said that billions of In calling for the over~ide American dollars still will be vote, lame-duck Rep. Wiley spent on new weapons under Mayne, R-Iowa, labe~:d. Ford's the agreement, but not as much !'J?v .. 26 veto a mistaken as if there were no agreement. IDJUStl~e to those (veterans)
who d1d serve." 
I 
RESERVATIONS: 
284-4176 (Business Hours)











I-w ND 
283-7054 (Show Nights) 
Student· Faculty ND-8MC Staff $1.50 

SMC 
THEATRE 
1974-75 Our Ninth Season 


A premiere production of this comedy-Intrigue in the absurd manner by NO graduate Christopher Ceraso. 
Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00P.M. Washington Hall (NotrP. D;:~me) 
C NOW RENTING A FOR SECOND SE/\1\ESTER 
M 
"\P.\RTl\lENTS WITH 
THE STl'DENT IN MIND" 
P TWO BEDROOM FURNISHED 
u 
APARTMENTS 
S Featuring: 
* 
COMMUNITY BUILDING

* 
2 BATHS IN THE 


2 BE~OOM APARTMENTSV * AIR CONDITIONING
* SWIMMING POOLI * DISHWASHER
* RANGEE * REFRIGERATOR
* GARf!AGE DISPOSALW *BA~KETBALL COURT 
* LOCATION: 3 BLCX::KS FROM CAMPUS! 
f\ 1\.l r !·:\L\ l!tl\. , -\l L ~':-~~ln. ()R '-II ! HI "t F'l I \! ·,·H:iS.'i IHI"H \\ -\'1 
1

i h I ' \ l '\I' ~-l ' Ill.' l\1< ) \. LL\ ) IH1D\'I \tl\11~~ !IlL . \1 'i .... ·.. LY ....
I 

gress chooses to override his veto, it should "pay the bill." 
"The President feels Con­gress should know what it is voting on," he said. 
In response to a question, he said the President "doesn't mean to be punitive or retaliative." 
"If they override, then Congress can vote to put up the money to pay the bill," Nessen said. 
Nessen said that the vote is not simply to override but is a vote on "whether to increase 
--------------------------------------~-----------------. 
Wednesday, December 4, 1974 
the observer 

7 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Need ride vicinity Dallas . Christmas. Willing to share$$ and driving. Cathy, 1332. 
We are looking for men and women over 18, who en joy the outdoors, to deliver the Penny Saver on WednesdjiyS. Must have tran­sportation. Apply in person Thurs or Fri from 9-6 at 52027 U.S. 31 North (across from Pagoda Gardens Restaurant) or call 272­1688 for appointment. 
Need ride to Virginia for Christ­mas break. Please call Marty at 289-3751. 
Wanted: pretty girl to sit and be heavy. 289-2521. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: S. Din. Hall 11-30. Blue ski coat. "The North Face." With cap and gloves. Dave, 215 Carroll, 6320. 
Lost: cal<:ulator at Physics 
Review. Reward. Call Marc, 277­0176. 
FOR SALE 
Merry Christmas. 4 month-old 300 watt component stereo system. 41 percent off list price. Steve, 1403. 
Must sell Bentwood rocker -$70. Call Margaret after 4 pm. 288-2759. 
Harmon-Kardon 330 an (case included) -$185. BSR 610 ·Jrr.table ~ $65. Wollensak 8055 eir t-track . $175. All items less tha me year old, excellent conditior -:all 1069. 
NOTICES 

Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Friday at 
5:40. Call Tom Boyer, 272-1807. 
Alumni of TEC, COR, SEARCH, ENCOUNTER: Retreat scheduled this weekend, Dec. 6-8. Sign-up, Campus Ministry Office, Library. 
. Big sale at Pandora's Books. Used books 2 for 1. These new books reduced 20 percent: Rock Dreams, Whole Earth Epilogue, Tolkien Deluxe Book Set, Free Where Man Was Born, Lenny Bruce, Pad­dington Box Set.. How to Play Better Guitar. art books and more! Sale lasts till Sun. 
Retreat this weekend, Dec. 6-8, Specifically tor alumni of TEC, C_OR, SEARCH, ENCOUNTER. S1gn-up, Campus Ministry. 
Saint Mary's College Summer Program in London , May 20-June 
20. Travel in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, France. College credit available. $865 pius tuition. 
Call 284-4951. 

Ride available to Orange Bowl. Leaving Dec. 27th. 283-8576. 
FOR RENT 

Two upstairs rooms, large 
bedroom-den, available tor student occupancy. Share downstairs kitchen and bathroom. 3 miles from campus. Widow's pension allows no rent, share utilities · $32 a month. Call Mrs. Spencer, 233-4670 or 283-7052. 
For rent: 2 rooms with kitchen, bar, and color tube. Owner pays utilities. $60 per month. Call 288­0144. 
House for rent for second semester. Good neighborhood, close to campus, low rent. For info, call Marty at 289-3751. 
One bedroom in 4 bedroom house. 5 minute walk to campus. $50 per month. 234-6834. 
PERSONALS 
A senior named Joe in 1A 

Was such a big nurd, so they say That ttre girls 'cross the hall No like 'im atall 
And used brooms to beat him away. 
Joe Wintersheid: Sorry, my shower stall is booked solid until May. Stop begging! 
Judy: Missed you over break. Like your roomie too!! Love, love, love Brian 
Okay Mary, Mel, Maureen, and 
Merton: 
I know you were expecting something. Stay out of Dinah Shore's garbage and watch out lor Sepulveda. 
the fifth M 

-----------~ 
the observer Wednesday, December 4, 1974 
Irish cagers begin home season with Northwestern
• 

by Greg Corgan NU Head Coach Tex Winter Last year the Irish drubbed Sports Editor brings to South Bend a squad Northwestern in Evanston 98-74. which returns 11 lettermen in-While the Wildctas are expecting 
If Digger Phelps and his Irish eluding three starters and, last to improve this season, the Irish basketball team could open their year, compiled a 9-15 record, its are basically in the midst of a home season tonight against best in four years. Offensively, the rebuilding program after the key Northwestern and then take a 'Cats are paced by Guard Billy losses from 74's squad. Both teams month off, they'd probably be McKinney (15.8 ppg last year) and opened their respective seasons overjoyed. forward Willie Williams (15.9 ppg). last Saturday. The Wildcats were 
Not that Digger doesn't like to The Wildctas are big on the front trounced by fifteenth-ranked coach or the players don't like to line where Williams is 6-6, junior Kentucky 98-70, whil1e the Irish play, but after tonight's contest Greg Wells stands 6-6 and center dumped Valparaiso 91-80. with the Wildcats, the Irish face James Wallace is 6-10. Wells "It's always nice to get that first Princeton, who along with Penn is averaged 11.4 points per game in one away, especially when you perenially one of the best in the Ivy 1972-73 with 9.2 rebounds while have a young team like ours," says League, then Kansas, Indiana, Wallace pulled down nine rebounds Phelps. "But we'll get a real test UCLA at Pauley Pavillion, Ken­a game. the rest of this month against the tucky in Louisville, Butler at In­In reserve, Winter has guard best competition in the country." dianapolis, anc:!Marylandat College Bob Hildebrand, a sophomore who Saturday night, Adrian Dantley Park. Tom Heinsonn would have started the last five games for lead the Irish attack with 37 points trouble with that lineup. Northwestern last season as well and a game-high 14 rebounds. Co­
But, as all coaches will con­as junior Tim Teasley and John captain Dwight Clay added 18 tinually reemphasize, first things Brodman. Center Dave Fields and points, 14 of those in the first half, first, and tonight that mearis forward Brad Cartwright saw while Toby Knight had 14 and Northwestern's Wildcats. some playing time on the front center Pete Crotty had 10. 
line. Phelps used ten different players 
~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;:::::::;::::::::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
BillDelmey 

Extra Points 

The incredible story surrounding the 55-24 It was no fluke that SC came out like a tornado in 
catastrophe Notre Dame suffered at the hands of USC the second half, and never stopped its wave of was not in the score itself, but in the way and order destruction until 1:44 was gone in the fourth quarter. those 79 points were scored. USC had possession of the ball nine times in the final 
This year's USC-Notre Dame game possessed the 30 minutes (including the pass interception run back 
ingredients of the annual classic that it's grown to be. for a touchdown by Charles Phillips), and scored on Throughout the week, the Los Angeles press built up seven of those occasions. Haden was six for six in this Notre Dame's last visit to the less-than-friendly half, and played his finest game of what has been a confines of the LA Coliseum. "The nation will be disappointing year for him. Davis finished the game 
watching to see if Anthony Davis can repeat his six­with 48 total yards rushing, but his 149 yards in touchdown performance of 1972," wrote Dick Miller kickoff returns and 37 yards in pass receptions made 
of the LA HERALD EXAMINER in Friday's issue. the difference in the ballgame."IRISH GET THEIR LAST SHOT AT ANTHONY USC's Big Red Scoring Machine was just that-there DAVIS" was the main headline of the LA TIMES were no long, sustained drives by the Trojans; as a Saturday morning. The story went on to say that the matter of fact, their longest scoring drive took only
last time Notre Dame entered the Coliseum, "they six plays and covered 50 yards. Davis and McKayleft in a virtual state of shock," and that an "outside" afterwards compared the second half to a machine chanceof getting a share of the National Cham­gun that would never run out of ammunition; it would pionship was based on the outcome of the game. just keep pouring out a steady stream of firepower.But it didn't turn out that way; the 1974 clash The view on the other sidelines was one of disbelief. between Notre Dame and USC was actually two Niehaus and Collins couldn't believe what was different ballgames-ND's phenomenal first half, happening: no one knew what to say; everythingand USC's electrifying second half. happened quickly. One instant there would be an The first half was quite a shock to anyone who's interception or something, then 'SC would kick off,followed Notre Dame football this year. Notre and then they'd get the ball again. The Irish had the Dame's effectiveness in moving the football against ball six times during the half, and could only gain 110 
USC's so-called "Rat Patrol" defense (to borrow a net yards during this time. phrase from Friday's HERALD EXAMINER), was a What went wrong? Certainly the lack of speed on new and pleasant surprise. Let's face it-ND has kick-off and punt teams hurt Notre Dame as did our 
been blessed with the luck of thelrish in many of its poor field position throughout the second half. victories this season. We should have had no Perhaps paramount to the case was the per­problems over Navy, Rice and Pittsburgh this formance of the defensive secondary. Wrecked by season, but mental errors, penalties and turnovers the loss of Simon and Zanot, the loss of Bradley, and put them right back into the ballgames. The loss to three first-year starters, defensive backfield coach Purdue was due to mistakes that should never have Paul Shoults had his work cut out for him this season. 
been made. Loss of speed, suspensions, injuries and Many times throughout they year this area has been mental errors have been attributed to ND's "dif­exploited, but Haden's precision passes to McKay
ficulties" this year. USC tested ND's areas of and Diggs dramatically exposed the crucial 
maximum vulnerability Saturday afternoon: lack of weakness Notre Dame has hidden all season. 
speed offensively and in the defensive backfield, and With the loss goes any chance of the National 
ND came up short on both ends of the stick. With that Championship aspirations the Irish had this year.
humiliation, the hopes of another championship It's tough to be number one, and even tougher to 
season have been suddenly shattered. retain it, as the old expression goes. The Orange
Enough has been said about Davis' 102-yard kickoff Bowl represents the opportunity to pick up the pieces 
return beginning the second half. But in the space of against Alabama, as Notre Dame had to do two 15 minutes and 53 seconds, John McKay Sr. and his years ago after the Orange Bowl debach~. What boys scored 41 points in a whiz-bang style that made happened after that game is history.the Nazi blitzkrieg of Norway seem like the Hundred Year's War. 
Irish thirteenth 
NOW APPEARING
in B-ball polls 
Tilt Top Twf'nty. wtth fl1"111·placr \'OIH Ill parPnt heat's. season ft'ronl and 



FOXX 
101-.1 points. Points tabulatPd on basis of ..I~}~ 14-12·1..t-8-7-H+H-I. 

AND
I No. Carolina St. (:r7) 1·0 878 % UCLA (7) .2.0 7111 
3. lncbna (I) . . .1.0 710 

SOUTH SHORE
4.. 11ary)and .1-0 441 ~ South Carolina (I) ~ 423 I LouiS\"tlle ll-0 418 7 Kansas 1.0 358 
8. llarquellr ~ :142 
I North Carolina 1·0 293 II Soutlll'nl California .1·8 2711 II Alabama 11-0 2e8 1%. Pun:lut> 1·0 156 

~Sirula ~ nile Clut 
13. NOII"E' Dame 1·0 120 
14. Ptonnsylvania 2.0 118 
IJ. KPIIIucky 1·0 81 

on U.S. 31 MtwMI lits. St. B•d-FrM hrtin&-~350 
11 llrmpbta Slalt 1·0 110 
17, Pro\-idt"'K'E' . . . .U 44 
Ill. Alitona . . 1.0 40 
II. II lcbipn .. 1-0 211 21. HOUion .. t-1 14 




Dwight Clay, here in action against Valparaiso, brings the Irish Cllpn back to the ACC in their home ooener tonight against Northwestern. 
throughout the evening and the Tipoff is at 8:10p.m. tonight and entire squad, with the exception of while the Wildcats may not be freshman guard Jeff Carpenter Indiana or Kansas or UCLA, it's suited for the game. Carpenter sat not a tuneup game by any means. out with a sprained ankle Satur-With the schedule the Irish have day, but was practicing with the this year, they'd better be well­team yesterday and is expected to tuned for every game. see action tonight. 
Irish drop in polls 
AP Poll UPI Poll 
Thr Top Twenty l('ams 1n the Asso· ThE' 1974 United Pn•ss InternatiOnal ciatPd J'rt>ss college football poll. with Board of Coachf's lop 20 major coll<•ge thE' firlil·place vot!'s in pan>ntheses. footbaU ratings with won-lost records season rt'l"Onls and total points tabula!· and llrlil -plaCE' \"Oil's in parenthest"s • rd on basis of Poinh :!n-1&-1&-14-12·111-11-S.7.f>.f>.4.3·2· t. 1. Alabama (31!) (IJ.Il).... . . __ 3-1~ 
I. Oklahoma (49) . . 11·9-0 1.19H t. Oluo St. (5) (Ill-I)... . .. 315 ~ .\labama 02) . ll·ll-0 1.111 1 llliclligan (I(). I)... . ... 2tili 
3. 
Oh10 Stalt' . 111-1-0 lllf! 4. Soutlll'm Cal (~J.l). . .2113 

4. 
~hl"h<gan . 111-1·0 !r.!l< 5. Auburn (~2) . . _ 146 ; So. Califorma 9-1-1 il!l 6. PPnn St. (~!) . . 12fi 


6 Auburn 9-~-0 544 i. Nrbraska (11-3). _ 113 ; Pt'nn State. . 9-2·0 50"! 8. SOIIl' DamE' (~2)... 90 
M. :o\~braska . 1!-3-0 500 t S.C. Stall' (~2) . 46 8 :o\otrt' Dame .. 9-2·0 3li9 10. TPxas (11-3) . 46 
10. Maryland . . ... 8·3-0 258 11. Tnas (11-3) 4fi 
II. Texas . . 1!-3-0 254 1%. Maryland (11-3) 45 
12. Ba\·lor . 1!-3-0 239 13. llltami 0. (~Il-l) . 24 13 :o\o· Car State . 9-2·0 2211 14. Florida (8-3) 2"l 
H. ~hch1gan State .... i-3-1 19i 1~. Bngha,m Young (i-3-1) . 12 
13. ~Uami. 0.. __ .... 9-9-1 lii4 II. TPxas A & Ill (11-3) . M 
16. T!'xas A & M _1!-3-0 711 17. Michigan St. (7-3-1) . 6 17 Bngham \'oung . 7·3-1 31 18. (TiP) Anzona 19-2) 4 IK. F'lomla . _. . 1!-3·0 2H (Tit>) No. Car. (7-4).. 4 19 Anzona 11-2·0 20 :!D. tulsa (11-3) . . . -_. 2 19 Anzona . 9-2-0 20 By agrt'('ment with thE' American :'11. Pill ... 7·4-0 IK. F'ootbaU CoachPs. teams on probatiOn (II<') 1\ lsl·onsln . . . _. _ i-4-0 IH ~· tht' NCAA art' ineligible for lop 20 
Others rt'('('ivmg \"Otes. hstt'd alpha· and national champ1onsh1p bt'ticalh· • Boston Coll<•ge. Clemson. consideration by lht' UPI Board of Hanan!. llouston. Mississippi Stall•. Coachf's. ThoSP trams cumntly on '\orth Carolina. Oklahoma State. T•·m· probation art' • Oklahoma. Sill U. Dll'. Tenm•ssN> Tulsa. l"Cl.,\. l"t;~h California. Lon~ BPach State and SJaJ. \, Soulhwestern Lowslana. 
FAT 



WALLY'S 
NOW OPEN 
* 
BEER 

* 
GIANT T.V. 

* 
LIQUOR

* 
SANDWICHES 


2046 South Bend Avenue 
Across From Campus View Apartments 



