

On The Inside 
Jason Miller at Bulla Shed .•. page 3 
Campus Briefs ... page 6 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, February 13, 1974
Vol. VIII, No. 78 
HPC sets elections rules 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents Council last night decided upon April 2 as the date for its election of a new chairman and established a new set of rules governing the procedures to be used. 
The new provisions call for the HPC chairman to be ('lected annually on the first Tuesday of April by the hall presidents in office at that time. To be eligible to hold this position one r.1ust be either a current or a former hall president at the time of the election. 
If the person elected chairman is also a president at rhat tir.1e, he r.1ay either hold both positions or resign as president of his hall, according to his own decision. 
These new guidelines replace those contained in the 1969 Constitution of the Hall Presidents Council, which has only been loosely followed in recent years. The old provisions called for the annual election of a chairman in October and listed no eligibility requirements (although the past has traditionally been filled by a Penber of the council). 
The idea of an October election. was simply disre trded the past few years because the HPC agreed that it s chairman should be selectd near the ('nd of the school yeat' so that the council might begin its work in-September without having to face a tur­nover in leadership a r.10nth later. 
The presidents decided last night that the first Tuesday in April would be the most appropriate date for the elction of a chairman for two reasons. First, f.1ost of the halls hold their elections prior to this date; r herefore, their new presidents will participate in selecting the HPC chairman. Second, the newly elected chail·man will have one month of experience in office before beginning the new school year. 
Setting an April date for the election, however, was 
not sufficient to ensure the stability of the HPC 
chairr:1anship. Several presidents pointed out that 
l'·'ost of the halls do not hold their elections well in 
advance of April. 
Consequently, they clair.1ed. if there are not some 
'eelections within the halls, the council rnay consist 
alr.,ost entirely of new, inexperienced members when 
if is l'aued upon to elect a chairr.1an. If the HPC were ro abide by i-ts tradition of selecting a chairr.1an from its own ranks in such a situation, the chairr.1an as well as the council mer.1bers would be unfamiliar with the operations of the HPC. 
To p!"()vide a solution for such a situation (one whcih in fact the HPC is facing this year with only one president running for 1·eelectionl, the council unanir.wusly agreed to open candidacy for its chair­r:,anship to former as well as current presidents. 
Present HPC Chairman Pat McLaughlin, the only person ever to hold that post without also serving as president of his hall, strongly approved the new p!"()vision. 
McLaughlin, who was selected last November to serve as interim chairman after the sudden resignation of Fred Baranowski, even suggested that if a president were electedc as chairman, he should be allowed to resign his position within the hall. 
"The responsibilities" of the HPC chairman are sir.1ply to great for him to also work effectively as president of a hall," he explained. "I know I simply would not have had the time to serve both positions well if I were a president also." 
The council accepted McLaughlins' advice and decided to allow a presiden elected chairman to exercise his won descretion about whether he can handle both posts. 
The HPC also set up provisions for the selection of a new executive coordiantor each year. Instead of being ('\ected by the council as before, the executive coor­dinator will be appointed by the current holder of that post at sor.w time after the annual An Tostal celebration. This provision is intended to enusre that 
•he new coordinator has had experience in working with An Tostal and is not simply chosen because of his popularity. 
In other business before the HPC, McLaughlin an­nounced that he has not yet received a reply to his ietter to Vice President for Student Affairs Phillip Faccenda considering ways to ease the current housing prob I em. 
HPC Executive Coordinator Wally Gasior announced 
•hat there wil, be a meeting for An Tostal workers ror.101Tow tonight at 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Student C('nter Fiesta Lounge. 
Board of Regents recom.mends Glasser Institute 
by Elen Maluczzi Staff Rt>portt>r 
The Saint Mary's College Board of Regents r.,et last weekend and took actim on threP proposals besides that of r.,ale vis'tation ex­tensions. 
On Saturday, February 9, the boa ·d recom­r:,ended that the college establish :, Glasser Institute. The establishment w.rhin the Department of Education of Schools without failure courses and Reality Therapy Workshops in conjunction with the Education Training Center m Los Angeles, would provide both enrichr:,ent for the students on the TEacher Preparation Program at Saint Mary's College and also an opportunity for the public to par­
•icipate in instructional programs involving Giasserian techniques. As described by Dr. H('nry, Saint Mary's College would becof.1e Dr. Giasser's "arr.1" in the Midwest. 
Cor.,r:,encement of the first phase of 1 enovation of the science facilities was also approved by the board. The increased number of students taking laboratory cours·es in both l'her.1istry and biology and the College's new nursing pmgram necessitates the start of the renovation. The new science facilities will be cor.1pleted by the fall of 1974. 
A decision on the question of faculty salaries was reached by the board. Approved was a 5 per cent mcrease in salaries with sor.1e of the in­creases distributed by r.1erit. 
The Board of Regents also announced Dixy Lee Ray, chairman of the Atmoic Energy Cor.,mission. as the Comr.1encement Speaker for May, 1974. · 

Solzhenitsyn arrested in Moscow 
Bv CIIHISTOPIIER OGDEN MOSCOW WPil -Alexander 
I. Soizhenitsyn, the Nobel Prize­winning author whose uncom­pror.,ising books about Stalinist 1 epression made him a world­wide syr.1bol of resistance to 
•he 
Soviet state, was arrested Tuesday and taken away by force. 

The 55-year-old writer said 

•he 
governr.1ent would have to f.'urd('J" hir., to silence hir.1. 


"Kill P(' quickly because I write the truth about Russian history," he said in a statement written in anticipation of his arrest and released Tuesday night by his wife Natalya. 
M• s. Solzhenitsyn said seven Russian policemen forced their way into the writer's central Moscow apartment Tuesday after he had ignored two sur.1r:,onses over the last three days ro go to the state prosecutor's office for ques­'ioning. 
She said the prosecutor's office inf<H'f.led her four hours 
•ater that Solzhenitsyn was under forr:1al arrest. 
She said they did not tell her where he was held or whether he had been charged. Dissident sources said authorities have rhree days under the law to 
charge him. 
In the statement she gave to 
newsmen, Solzhenitsyn said 
that if put on trial he will have 
to be carried into court and will duse to answer· any questions. 
No court is competent to judge Russian literature or any Russian author, he said. 
"If such a court is ca.\Ied against m(', I will not (l.O on r.1y own legs to read there ny books with my hands tied ... I will not respond to any questions of such a court," he said. 
If sent to a labor camp, he said, he would refuse to work "l'ven for a ha If hour", and authorities would be left with only one way to deal with him: 
"Kill r:'e quickly because I write the truth about Russian history." 
F1 iends of the wl'i ter said 1hey feared the arrest was a first step toward stripping Solzhenitsyn of his .citizenship and expelling him and his family fror.' the Soviet Union. 
Solzhenitsyn had said in his 
•ast interview with western newsPen three weeks ago that "r•y far.,ily and I are ready for anything. I have fulfilled my duty to those who have died and rhis gives r.1e calm and 'elief." 
His latest book, "The Gulag Archipelago," set in a string of Stalinist prison camps, has cor.1e under increasingly bitter attack in the Soviet press, and Solzhnitsyn was denounced as a traitor. 
A powerful.ly built, bearded r.1an, Solzhenitsyn was an Arr.1y officer in World War II and was imprisoned several tirnes in the Stalinist era for dissident activities. 
Out of his experiences came books iike "One Day in the Live of Ivan Denisovich,""The Cancer Ward," and "The First Circle," which won him the 1970 Nobel Prize for literature and set him on a collision course with the Soviet state. 
His arrest was seen by some Western observers as a victory for hard-liners in the Soviet ~overnment that could imperil an easing of USSR-U.S. rela­tions and Soviet relations with the West. 
But W('stern sources at the European Security Conference in G('neva said that although 'he arrest could have seriously disrupted the 35-nation talks if it had cor.1e at a crucial point, "ir unfortunately Pakes little difference" now because there has been little progress at the conference since it began last S('ptember. 
The Soviets have displayed nt1·er.1e sensitivity to Western public opinion during the era of detente, even going so far as to liberalize the er.1igration of J('WS under pressure from the 
U.S. Con(l.ress. 
The arrest brought condem­nation from western literary circles. It was r.1et with almost resignation by Western officials at the European Security Conference in Geneva. 
"All I can say at this moment is that his fate is deeply tragic," Karl Ragnar Gierow, perr.1anent secretary of the Swedish Academy of Letters, which awarded Solzhenitsyn the Nobei Prize, said in Stockholm. 
In Paris, writer Dor.1inique LaPierre called Solzhenitsyn "a f· 1an of ~igantic courage. Ar·1erican novelist Jar.1es Jones said in Paris the arrest was "unbeiieveable" but author Gore Vidal, in Rapallo, Italy, called it "inevitable." 
In Boston, Yuri Giazov, a Boston College professor who spoke by telephone with Mrs. Solzhenitsyn later Tuesday said 
•he situation "iooks very 
serious."  
G•azov  said  someone  with  a  
fePale  voice  listened  in  on  the  
conversation  and  tried  to  

disrupt it while he talked with 
MIS. 
As rhe area around Solzhenit­syn's apartr.,ent building swarr.,ed with KGB secret ·poiice agents Tuesday night, fellow r.,er.Jbers of Moscow's 
•iny ~nlUp of dissident intellec­!Uals denounced the arrest as "an insult to the whole world." 
"Soviet authorities are spil­ling in the face of international opinion," rhey said in a statement drafted by Andrei D. Sakharov,·rather of the Soviet hydrogen bor.1 b. 
"This is an insult to the whole world, and to the f.1ernory of those about whom he wrote," Sakharov said. He called Solzhenitsyn "the con­science of humanity." 
Solzhenitsyn had ignored or­ders Saturday and Monday to appear for questioning at the prosecutor's office, telling au­
j
•twrities rhey should "learn to 
••bey the law rher.1selves." 
1
M1 s. Solzhenitsyn and her 
r:'other, who was also in the apartm('nt along with one of Soizhenitsyn's children, said the police arrived at the central Moscow apartJOl('nt shortiy aft('r 5 p.r·'· in the l:athering dusk. 
Tlw younger wor.,an said she answ('red the doorbell and saw 
•wo r.,('n, one with a docur.,ent identifying himseif as fror:' •lw stat(' pmsecutor's office. 
Solzhenitsyn appeared at 1he door and several P('n forc('d 
•heir way inside, ~lw said. 
"Wt• rried ro }.old •her:' 11U 1 but Wl' W('r(' push('d away," said Mrs. ·solz!,('nirsyn's I'·'•·· 'her. "They Wl'H' •er··ib·~ lOUgh. 
''A,exander IsaV('I·ich said. 
'I'm not ~oing ,,."o,untarily,"' 
M1's. Soizhenirsyn said. She said 
a poiicer.,an ·eplied: · 
"Then W(' will have ro rakl• 
you away by force. Get 1·eady. 
Get dressed." 
The author W('nt into his 
bedroor.1 to get his hat and coat 
and ro put personal belongings 
in a sr.,al\ case, she reported. 
"Don't r.'ake a circus," she 
quoted one of the police as 
saying. "You will be back 
soon." 
She said the officers escorted Solzhenitsyn out of the house and slar.1r.'ed the door behind ther.l. Two policer.,en remained in the entranceway for 20 f.'inutes, looking frequently at !l!eir watches, she said. 
.. 
I 
. ,·\. ' ' . 
\ ~ ": \ -••'.. ,.· ~ • t •• ,, ..... '· ..
I 
. ~ ........ ...... ·--........ -· ........
~ ~ 
l. the observer Wednesday, February 13, 1974 
warld 
briefs 
Washington UPI -Gasoline rationing, plagued by Potorists trying to buy fuel on the wrong day, pt·oduced uneven results Tuesday as two more states got ready to join the alternate day allocation plan. 
On Wednesday, Pennsylvania and Maryland will join five other states plus the District of Columbia in the 
even-odd plan. In some non-rationing states, the 
shortage was critical. On Connecticut Merrit Park­
way four out of five stations were out of gas and their 
supplier said they would not receive new deliveries 
until March 1. 
Washington UPI-The Postal Service said Tuesday it 
had located and delivered to Superior Court the 
r.,issing subpoena ordering President Nixon to appear 
as a witness in a White House "plumbers" trial in Los 
Angeles. 
A spokesrnan said the letter containing the sub­
penna, sent Feb. 4 by certified mail, turned up in a 
Washinton post office and was sent to· the District of 
Columbia Superior Court immediately. 
The Postal Se1·vice said the subpeona apparently was 
delayed because it "looked like a package" and was 
sent f1·orn Los Angeles Feb. 5 by surface mail instead of 
air r.'ail. 
Nixon's testimony is wanted on behalf of former 
While House aide John D. Ehrlichman, who is to go on 
!rial in connection with the burglary of the office of 
Daniel Elsberg's psychiatrist. 
an campus taday 
10:10 a.m. and 2:45 p.m.--lecture, "fracture mechanics" by john cammett, room 5, eng. bldg. 
p.m.--slf, bruce friedman "problems in the multi­media, library lounge 
4:30 p.m.--seminar, "pattern of differential cell replication in mouse embryo", galvin aud. 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club, room 204, engineering, new members invited 
7:30 p.m.--meeting, aiesec, Iafortune 
8 p.m.--slf, bruce friedman reading from his works, library aud. 
8 p.m.--performing arts series, harkness ballet, o'laughlin aud. $3.50, $2.00 for students 
8:15 p.m.--concert hector olivera, organist, sacred heart church 
9:00 p.m.--meeting, inpirg, second floor, student center (inpirg office) 
TONITE AT· THE SENIOR BAR 
For our faithful Wednesday nite crowd 
PINTS 30 cents 
and that's not all 


tomorrow -Thurs 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY 'LADIES 
for the girls: nails wallbangers fudpuckers $. 75 all other drinks $.50 all nite long 
2 J I. D. required 
I. U. prof presents African music lect.ure T~ursday 
Dr. Alan P. Merriam, professor of anthropology and a member of the African Studies Program at Indiana University, Bloomington, will present a lecture, "African Music: An Anthropological Perspective," at Saint Mary's on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll 
Hall,  Madeleva  Memorial  
class,·oom building.  
Dr.  Meniam joined  the  

University's department of an­thrnpology in 1962 and served as its chainnan from 1966 to 1969 when he relinquished the chairm~nship in resur.1e teaching and research. A specialist in cultural an­rhropology, Dr. Merriam has an extensive background of field work in Africa. He worked in the Belgian Congo and Ruanda Urundi 

Erratu:m 
Notice of Correction: 
In Tuesday's paper there were two errors in the article entitled "Results of o-c poll released." As stated in the fourth paragraph, "two houses were rented on ten r.10nth leases and one was rented on a 12 month lease." However, the actual slats are, that 13 of the 80 houses were 12 month leases. 
Also, instead of $9.16 per week for the dining hall meal plan, the real cost is $16.00 per week in the dining hall. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46SS6. 
dunng 19~1-52, an~ was m t~e J?r. Merriam's appearance at Democratic Repu~hc of Congo ~n Saml Mary's part of the continuing 1959-60, engag~ m . ethnographic Ar.>erican Scene cultural series, is and ethnomusicological res~arch sponsored by the College's among the B~songy~ people m the departr.1ent of sociology, an-former Kasal Provmce. ihropology, and social work. The He was a r.1ember of Presid~nt public is cm·dially invited to at­Kennedy's Task Force for Afnca rend. No admission will be m 1960, and prepared a paper on charged. recornr.>endations for U.S. foreign policy toward the Republic of the Cungo. In 1958, he was a member of the National Research Council's Comr.Jittee on Human Resources in Central Africa. He was a special consultant to the U.S. government conceming the political situation in the Republic of Congo in 1960, and was U.S. delegate to the first International Congress of Africanists in Ghana in 1962, and to rhe second Cong1·ess in Dakar in 1967. 
The authm· of seve1·al books on African r.>usic, Dr. Merriam is a r->er.1ber of val"ious scholarly organizations, among them the African Studies Association, Ar.,erican Folklore Society, In­ternational African Institute, and the African Music Society. He was educated at Montana Slate University and Northwestern University. Befm·e coming to Indiana, he taught at Nor­thweslem and at the Universities 

Jordan Fo;~;r­
of Wisconsin and Minnesota. 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
:························································· 
: END WINTER BLAHS WITH 
= /pring Get Away 
The Most Fantastic Vacation Contest Ever! 
GRAND PRIZE: Five day, all-expense vacation in 
LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA! 10 EACH SECOND PRIZES: Three days, all expenses in 
LAUDERDALE! ' 
OVER $10.000 IN PRIZES! 
To register, send stamped, self addressed envelope to: Curtis Enterprises, Inc. P.O. Box 54617, Dept. 116 
• Atlanta, Georgia 30308 -
: Hurrv Contest ends Marr:h 8, 1974
•......................••••.............................., 



PLAIDS APLENTY! 
Haggar knows what you want. . . and they deliver! We're proud to offer you these new pl~id k~it slacks created by Haggar for the unrvers1ty man. All the tradition of styling and value has been adhered to, yet the prices are modest. Select from a wide choice of colorings. 
from $14 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Wednesday, February 13, 1974 the observer 
3 


Miller speaks on 'The Exorcist' 
by Chris O'Brien 
just as I knew my first play was a anything else to do." Staff Reporter bomb." Miller derives special pleasure 
A crowd of about 50 gathered Asked if his reason for writing from drama. "Plays are a source yesterday at the Bulla Shed for an "That Championship Season" was of private satisfaction to me," he informal talk with Jason Miller, because he was turned off on said. He believes that Drama author of "That Championship winning, he responded, "No in should be taught in the first, Season" and screen star of "The fact, I like to win. You can't take second, and third grades or else it Exorcist", who is on campus this away from r-1an his desire for will just become a museum in 25 
excellence. I have played football years; no one will be interested inweek for the Sophomore Literary 
Festival. and basketball and enjoy them seeing plays. In response to a question con­both. But now sports are being When asked the final question distorted by fancy domes and about whethe1· he considered his
cerning the effects that his role as Fr. Kanas in "The Exorcist" had stadiums. When you start to works as artistic or as a on his life, Miller said, "It got me control variables like the weather, profession, Miller replied, "MyAuthor-actor Jason Miller: "Filmmakers cannot be expected to tailor 
another movie! But seriously, the their films to people." the games become too controlled. work helps Pe to r.1ake money: raovie has a spiritual thrust, it is You take too r.1uch fi.Ml1 the game. but if I know a friend who needs an
others said, the boy was the devil won when Karras jumped 
not full of sensational fluff. It is like having a G1·eek play acting break, I will r.1ention him
possessed." out the window. Well, I didn't play without the Greek 'Chorus'. for a part in one of r.1y plays."
However, I hear that the best He explained however, th~t the part that way. I played the
performances now come from the "I was not at the point of giving Jason Miller will speak
"Blatty r.mst have the poebc part that KaJTas was saving the
audience ... this movie touches up writing if "That Championship 1or.10rrow night at the Library
license to e~pand and chan~e the girl by jumping, and I would never
neglected impulses leading us Season" had bombed. I don't know Auditol"ium. 
story. Basically, Blatty did not take the part in Blatty's new en­towards decisions between good change the story much; he ding because what the movie isand evil." 
changed the boy to a girl and added should remain." 
Miller also stated, "This movie 
Administrators decline
a few scenes as proof of 1he When asked about the faith of was the first of its kind and un­possession but he was not far from Dr. Karras, Miller replied,doubtedly better movies of thi type the original diary story." "Ka1-ras loses faith in God towill be r-1ade." When asked about 

comment on renovation
In rega1·d to the people who are exorcise the gil'l. The final ritual is the effect of the movie on Lnda now getting sick and having break-an act of violence when KarrasBlair, who played the possessed downs while viewing the movie, beats the girl and the demon leaves (continued from page 6) hou1·s which he r.1entions are r.1ine 
Regan, Miller stated, "She is doing 
Miller responded, "The people who the girl to go into him. As for also."
charged that "in response to thegreat. She's the most together of are getting sick and having KaJTas's suicidal leap: Isn't it the enorr.wus amount of painstaking Dr. Ackerr.1anf_unhp1 stated llatall of us. A 15 year-old now, she psychotic breakdowns are going to same thing that Christ did? But his effm·t that all the student com-b~fo,·e cor.1Pent,mg on the .
was about 121h when the filming 
have them anyway. Neither Blatty faith comes back at the last split 1
r.litees put in on the '£>novation, s ater. ent, h~ ptann~-to Sit. ~ownbegan; she is a horse woman and is nor the movie can be held second. It is an act of love by
in fine shape." plans.._.one adr.~inistrator had torn .~nd ~~:k Wit~ ~~Jenne first.
responsible for that. Audience Kan·as to accept the demon, and up theJr work on the basis of his ~onm , he said, IS a percept~!
Asked about the truth of the reaction is unpredictable. an act of love is an act of God; so in own opinions" thmg. Before you can talk about Itr.1ovie, Miller answered, "Most of Miller surprised some people effect, KalTas is the Vessel of God
the r.wvie is taken straight from Dt·. Acker~1 an stated that "he you have to define i!. ~t com~ ?ut
when he said, "Filmmakers all along." 
didn't exactly know what Etienne of Notre Dame Chn~han traditionthe diary of the real exorcist. I cannot be expected to tailor their Questioned on "That Cham­Peant." "Since the La Fortune !hat _stude~ts admomsh us for nottalked to the grandmother of the films to people. I hear that now pionship Season, " Miller said, "It project began Dennis and myself dealmg With the~, honorably. Itboy who was exorcised, and she Biatty is writing up a new ending took r.1e five months to write, but I have worked very closely behooves us. to Sit down an~. talktold r.1e that irregardless of what for the Povie because people say knew it was going to be a success !ogether on it. Many of the long about the p1 oblem together. 

Shop: Monday-Saturd•y 10·10, Sund•y 10-8 Phone: 259-0880 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old K•mm't Brewery 
LONDON OAAIS. ANTWERP. ROTTERDAM. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. TORONTO. MONTREAL. VANCOUVEP NEW YORK. BOSTON. MIAMI. PHILIDELPHIA. CHICAGO. DETROIT. PITTSBURGH. HOUSTON. DALLAS. PHOENIX SAN FRANCISCO. SEATTLE. LOS ANGELES 
ART PRINTS 
. fine quality r~ro­. ductions of o . and modern h 
. masters, Frenc . rt nouveau. ;tandard sizes, •• mounted, readt, ..~ e Peter"''" ' 
to tram . t posters. 
. Corita Ken 
. 2oo.soo 
j 
j 


analogy r.1ay be drawn from the you can't face the possibility of a the university community. 
Alice C. Harrington
sight of a bevy of "imports" little verbal sparring match in our The other, younger man is more
Maureen Lathers
streaming in (and, almost as noble pr·ess, why don't you sign liberal in his rules for sexual the observer 
Diane Rewis
quickly, out) of parties, and that your letters "Yellow-bellied conduct, but agrees with his older Night Editor: Albert D'Antonio
Pamela Lukaska
this rnight at least be seen as an Coward." It would reflect better colleague that a strong statement, Asst. Night Editor: Rick BlowerJeanne Murphy
improvement over a situation in on the Observer's clientele. whether liberal or· conservative, is 
Mary Setolock Layout: Suzy Augustus, Molly
which four guys are vying for the Anonymity is for dumb dumb infinitely preferable to the un­Martin
Gene C. Thomas
inattentions of a single female, we bunnies and sheep. fathomable morass of a moral no­Copy Editor: Gregory Allen cannot help but wonder if the r.,an's-land that the Observer Day Editors: Jeanne Murphy,
primary consideration in the Name Withheld upon Request Need for article so eloquently manifests. Terry Keeneyplanning of social encounters must He would opt for a rule that
•'.. Typists: Howard Halle, Barb 
.. invariably come down to the base Conviction explicitly states the University's Haug, Tom Modglinprinciple of economics: the Law of Here to Stay Editor·: position, the consequences of Compugraphic: Joe Abell Supply and Demand. The front-page article (Ob­violation, and the recourse of the 
Pictures: Jerome 
Maybe the reader is thinking this server, February 5) on the rules accused. While he personally Sports: The FinEditor: 
a rather overbearing accusation to for sexual conduct makes one favors a policy which would allow 
The Numbers Game 
Editor: For some reason, the "cattle" 
•e!ler 
in Thursday's Observer did not seem worthy of the over­whelming response that it ap­parently sparked. Granting, 

•hough, 
that it was answered with as r.1uch vehemence as Friday's Obst>rvt'r indicated, we feel that an attempt r.1ust be r.1ade to look at the controversy with a little more objectivity than was evident in r.1ost of the letters concerned with rhe issue._ This is not to dismiss any of the points brought out, but, rather, to ask why all of the letters seemed to slip into a rhetoric of "one-upmanship" and open animosity. 


Perhaps the clearest indicator of this general disdain is found in the overall tone of the letters them­selves. For the most part, the ietters printed seemed to share in the assumption that ratio is the primary consideration when discussing social life, and that any importation of females (and-or r.1alesl should be done with the intention of somehow improving the "udds" of meeting people of the opposite sex. If this is the case, then we <as a community?) appear to be acknowledging that our basic understanding of the nature of social interaction is approachable only on the level of some sort of numbers game. While we will admit that a certain cattle-like Wednesday, February 13, 1974 
such IS ihe case, then the best alternative might be to cease talking about ratio, cattle and horniness, and begin to realize that "busride to anywhere" might best be offered to those of us who are incapable of approaching each 
other  as  people  rather  than  as  
objects  for  personal  gain  or  
satisfaction. ·  
Sincerely  
Gil Johnson  

Marshall Turner Pat Miskell 
Sign Your Name 
Dear Name Witheld Upon Request: 
Anonymous writers seem to contribute a rather hefty per­centage of the letters· printed in the Observer. This is amusing. Just what are all of you nameless wielders of the mighty pen afraid of, anyway? I adr.lit that anyonymity does protect you against reprisals in the next day's issue from those you castigate, and Iknow that. doing or saying something stupid can't make you 
looklike the fool you are if you don't attach your name to it; on the other hand, I think you would do well to remember that one of the characterisrics of responsibility is the willingness to accept praise or criticism for whatever you do, according to its merits. If you're . such a yellow-bellied coward that 
now the visitors have gone and what is left are 840 Notre Dame women. Perhaps this is the time to hear one more opinion from the female r.1inority. 
As-transfer students from out­of-state schools we came to Notre Dame last year as part of the 325 coeds admitted to the university. We weren't expecting a social heaven or a date every weekend throughout the semester. We also realized that the men at Notre Dame had to make an adjustment, for the 2,000 St. Mary's students who covered the campus the year before dwindled to a mere 325 coeds. Thus, there may have been ~Jme resentment at the start, but what has emerged appears to be a courageous desire of the men here to protect the "r.1ale tradition" at Notre Dame from the female in­vaders. Perhaps if you would look back into the school's history you would find not a "male tradition" but a closenesss, a sense of unity. Notre Dame's all-male student body shared the same ex­periences: football games, going to r.1eals together, pep rallies, and the library exodus. These things, because they were done together, became tradition, nol "male tradition" but Notre Dame tradition. As such, tt is the sharing, unity, and sense of community that make up the tradition not the gender. The women of Notre Dae belong here. We are part of Notre Dame now, a part of the Notre Dame tradition. It's time to realize this. 

daanesbury prrylrud•au 
VUv(.... 
0~@c Hl%%o 
~ fJf'r COI/l-0 11&-THE : YOll REPMT ENER6Y 
• THAT, YOllf?. CRISIS HAS ~ CZARSHIP? eNPtO! ; c~ /_ ~ ......____ 


i~·.:;ra,~ t~~ 
' ' f 1 
7 2-/3 
to chaos. 
The older of us would simply . state: that Jesus Christ is God, that he founded a Church to guide Pen, that He Himself gave us a broad but clear code of moral conduct that bans sexual promiscuity and premarital sex and that the Church to which He gave authority to carry on His teachings on earth makes these rules r.1ore explicit. He further believes that while the University, as Catholic, should not and cannot deny the right of the individual to disagree with this code in his thoughts, it can and must deny him the right to violate it, in his actions, while living within the confines of 
Vv0; 
@~ @~ IT's AU-0~, 
()f1 /" c tf!sONfuJf~SfE~o PR&T£NIJINGl GO HOME TO YOVR FAMitlES-TH&R£'5 NO STORY f'OR YOU H&RE 
individual discretion in sexual ,·elations, he would rather see courage of conviction in a definitively restrictive policy rather than an attempt to ingratiate the entire community with a rule which defies logical interpretation. 
Sincerely yours, 
Charles W. McC'ollester 
Timothy H. Poley 
All letters submitted for publication should be typed double­~ paced, and should not excede one pagt' in length. The Observer rt'servt's the rgith to ed't all letters if any of the above requirements art' not met. 
throw out about such a  trite sub­ Last week several female Notre  wonder what is being taught (and  
ject-we all had a  good laugh,  so  Dame students voiced one opinion  thought?)  at  Notre Dame.  The  
iet-'s forget it, right?  But, then  of bussing in girls for the Mardi  article  is  so  filled  with  weasel­ 
again,  one  just might  see  some  Gras  weekends.  In  response,  Wtll'ded  quotes  and  sophisms  
distressing reminders of just how  many male students took time to  r.1asquerading  as  official  policy  
far apart the men and women on  respond  not  only  to  the  bussing  that student-readers--if they give a  
this carnpus seem  to  be in their  issue but to the female presence on  damn--cannot  but  be  thoroughly  
individual  understandings  of  campus in general.  The influx of  confused.  
human  sexuality.  Perhaps  the  girls during the last two weekends  The undersigned represent  not  
"cattle"  letter  communicates  proved to be a social bonus to the  only two different age generations  
l'·'ot·e  than  a  surface  squalor  of  Notre Dame community.  If one is  but also two widely varying views  
name-calling and accusations;  to dwell on numbers, that influx did  on what the rules for sexual con­ 
possibly, they were the most vivid  r.mch  to  balance  the  male-to­ duct  should  be.  But  we  agree  
expression of the frustrations that  female ratio.  Both economically  wholeheartedly  that  statements  
both sexes have experienced in our  and  socially  Notre  Dame  such as appeared in the foregoing  
first two years of co-education.  If  benefitted from their presence, but  interview-article lead nowhere but  

'flrttfOIIt 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and ~m­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your 1.0. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 5. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
NOTICE 
SENIOR ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
EIT EXAM AP­
PLICATIONS ARE TO BE RETURNED COMPLETE WITH YOUR FEE TO THE OFFICE OF THE DEAN OF ENGINEERING. 
Night Controller: Joe Abell 


"STEAMBATH" 
by BRUCE JAY FRIEDMAN 
WED., FEB. 13, 8:00 P.M. LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
as Presented on Public Broadcasting System 
"God ... APuerto-Rican Steambath Attendant...that'/1 be the day." 
FREE. .. FROM THE SOPH. LIT. FESTIVAL 
----~---., 
I l 
Wednesday, February 13, 1974 
the observer 5 j j 
defining corned 
beef -and black humor l ~ 

by mike kulczycki 
Black Humor. A term created by the discoer the new beat which is in the air, what Friedman r.1eans by Black Humor. critics in the mid-sixties to describe the "Invent a new currencyy, a new set of Which incident is more ludicrous? Where is 
vigorous new growth of satiric talent. A filters... sail into darker waters somewhere rhe line between fantasy and reality? term which does not form a cohesive school beyond satire." This "new beat" is closer to Besides Friedman's interest in fiction, he 
m· even a wave in literature. A term which -Ft·iedman's conception of what is r:1eant by non-fiction numerous
writes r:1aterial for 
presses novelist, journalist, short-story Black Humor. Pagazines and also takes notice of the writer and playwright Bruce Jay Briedman Bruce Jay Friedman will present a r:1odern trend towards filmaking. Over to comment in his foreword to the Anthology screening of his latest play Steam bath at the dinner at the Morris Inn last evening,
of Black Humor, "It is called Black Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. tonight, Friedman related the trend twenty years
Humor" and I think I would have more luck followed by any comments or questions ago of budding writers always producingdefining an elbow or a corned beef sand­which the audience wishes to raise. The their "first novel" as compared to the 
setting of the play is a steambath and the
wich. I am not, for one thing, even sure it is pt·oduction of "first filr.Js" in the late sixties 
rir:1e is the unique r:10rnent when one just
black." and seventies. He explained his feelings
begins to relize that he is dead. The man in
Whether one likes it or not, Black Humor. toward writing as cor.1pared to film when he 
exists. But as Friedman says, "You wish charge of the steambath is a Puerto Rican siad, "I feel alike blakcsmith in the old 
rhey would call it something else or perhaps attendant who really is God, changing West, when I ralk about novels and sun·is in call it nothing and just know it is in the air. facets of society while he is mopping up the r his Podern era of filr.1." Especially since there is no single perfect floor. The Allendant controls the world by a 
Friedr-1an clarified lhe nature of the in 
exar.1ple of it." bleeping electronic console, giving both vitation only "Workshoi) on Problems of thl Though there is no perfect example of dding through r:mch of the work under f'OOd and bad instructions: "All right, give 
Multi-Media" by describm,_ Ihal title a. Black Humor, Friedman has directed his disucssion." What it comes down to, ac­thai girl on th bus a run on her body sor:,ewhar r.,isleading. He did not itend ;.. fiction writing to the precise core of the new cording to Friedman, is that the "source stocking... I want that Pontiac moving ''lVlcLuhanesque" rype of p: esentation ant: 
beat that is in the air, a beat which you south past Hermosa Beach to crash into the 
and fountain and bible" of Balck Humor is he wanted ru "Leave alUhe :;piritual stuff t• 
iight blue Eldorado coming the other way ...
can't fight or cry or shout but can only the daily newspaper. It has created the all the othpt·guys." Friedr:•an felt that b:. 
respond to through laughter. This beat can iabel for our times of the "surprise-proof Give Canada a little more rain ... Put bigger having sm-'e experience m a number o balh towels in all the rooms at the Tel Aviv
be found in his novels Stern, A Mother;s generation." Friedman cites some of the different Pedia fields, he would be able ;
Kisses, and The Dick; in his collections of "sources" of Blake Humor, all taken from Hilton Hotel. .." ralk about the practical narure of some t!­In Stt>ambath, Friedman talks about the
short stories Far From the City of Class, general news events. the probirr.•s invoved, intended mainly fm and Black Angt>ls; and his two plays Scuba Fun loving Tennessee studens pelt each "Jack Rubyesque absurdity" similar to tat people interested in writing. problems likt
found in newspapers:
Duba and Steambath. other with snowballs and suddenly "how to reli a story or how to write an artieit­In the drive from the south Bend airport scores-are dead of heart attacks and It's like a guy about to have some for a Paga iine." iast night, Friedman described the start of gunshot wounds. A r.1id-flight heart­rerrific operation. The odds against Bt uce Ja: Friedman typifies the attitud• his career, through journalism, after_ attack victir.1 is removed from an him surviving are ridiculous. Newton of all rhe authors coming to rhe Sophomor
graduating from the University of Missouri, airliner, suddenly slides from the High School against the Kansas City Literary Festival: sincerel; interested in although as he said, "that sort of stuff got stretcher and cracks er head on the Chiefs. They're working on his eyes, r.'eeting wirh students, faculr:-: and the oth~: 
ears, nose, throat and brains... He's
ins! in lhe shuffle." But his journalism runway.... "How does it feel?" the TV .t.:uest authors. He said, · : ve done lhi,
haning by a hair--and miracle of
background had a definite influence on his boys ask Mrs. Malcolm X when her (speaking at festivals) a dozen times in the 
r:1iracles, he r.1akes it. Gets back on his
tater attempts to ork through humor while husband is assassinated. •ast twenty years, and have alwyas enjoyeci acting as a serious and effective social feet, says goodbye to the doctors, goes it ...I've never worked in the academtl' 
critic. Ail the r:1edia reports confirm the belief home, nd gets killed by a junkie outside terrific novelty."
world so for r:'e this is a 
a Rubyewque of of Toots Shor's...
This influence is evident in Friedman's rhat "Jack chord ab­Don't r.1iss Bruce Jay Friedman tonight at 
forword to the above anthology. "There is a surdity" has struck the land. Friedman rhe Library Auditorium. Because, in his fading line between fantasy and reality, a sees the journalist as gradually usurping the This selection from Steambath is not much. 
own words, "It is a good time to be around, very fading line, a god-damned almost ground of the satirist. Now the novelst­different from the newspaper article about ru ask sor.1e of the questions. to watch the invisible line and you will find that notion ~atirist, according to Friedman, must 1he heart attack victim. Perhpas this is action. 



marceau returns 
mary ellen mcandrews 
The world-famous pantomimist, Marcel Bernhardt Theatre in Paris. There he other r:1en their own lives. I am suc­It is possible that this tenth tour of the Marceau, will present a one-man show at 8 studied under Etienne Decroux, an cessively the creation of the world, the United States may be Marceau's last. He is p.r.1., Tuesday, February 19, in O'Laughlin acknowledged r.1aster of mime. Decroux Pineral, the vegetable, and the animal, the thinking of retiring his one man show to Auditorium. Because of Marceau's had also taught Jean-Louis Barrault, and human, the discovery of the apple and the concentrate on putting together a per­popularity, the Student Union Cultural Arts the latter, impressed with Marceau, invited pain. Because of that white mask, where r:1anent Pime company. He has already Comr-1ission is bringing him here for the hir:1 to join his company. It was with emotions show much more, I can in four stepped out from behind the character of second consecutive year. Barrault that Marceau won his first ac-r-,inutes, show birth, life and death through Bip and into the role of an actor. Marceau 
Although a Frenchman by birth, Marceau P y body alone." can be seen on the Hoolywood screen this has been especially appreciated by clair:1. He starred in the role of Arlequin in Although the art has existed from the days coming summer as the lead in the thriller APerican audiences. Considered the Baptiste, a pantomin1e which Marceau had of the Greeks and Romans, mime has un­Shanks. Produced by William, known for foremost living style pantomimist, Marceau himself interpreted from the famous French dergone a revival in recent years. Since the his production of Rosemary's Baby, Mar­looked to the great silent movie stars of the film, Les Enfants du Paris. His first days of the great 19th century French ceau will play a double role, one of which is Ar.,erican screen for much of his early in­r:1inodrama Praxitele and the Golden Fish, Pimist, DeBUJ·au, the art has most often a speaking part. spiration. He studied the performances of that same year, 1946, put him firmly on the been used more as a supplement to the arts Yet when Marceau comes to O'Laughlin Buster Keaton, Harry Langdon, Stan way to success. of dancing and acting ,·ather as an art in Auditorium on February 19 it will be for his Laurel, Oliver Hardy and Charlie Chaplin, In 1947, Marceau created his famous itself. Marceau sees mime as being a very f.lime that he is appreciated and it will be as especially Chaplin. When Marceau was five character, Bip, the white faced clown in the comr.,unicative art and thus explains the Bip that he will captivate the audience. years old, in 1928, he saw his first Chaplin tight pants, striped shirt and battered hat reason for its 1·esurgence as a widely ac­Heed the following written by Clive Barnes, filr.1 and from that day on he haunted movie topped with a floppy flower. It is behind the cepted art form. According to him: "Mime drama critic for the New York Times and do rheatres when any pantomimist was on the white face of Bip that Marceau so suc­speaks in a speechless tongue that is im­not r:1iss him. screen. From imitations of human actors he cessfully comr.1unicates to the public Pediately comprhensible to everyone. It "I have never seen him better!" ex­grew to imitate the "silence" of birds and through r.1ime. knows no language barriers. The possibility claimed the critic after Ma1·ceau's per­fishes and butterflies. of r.1isunde1·standing does not exist. In a formance in New York City last year. "I 
Marceau sees mime as a timeless art and troubled world, where men are working have been watching Marceau for many,During World War II, he performed his he performs in white makeup so as to come constantly to determine some common Pany years...l have seen him time and time 
silent routines for the soldiers in the French across r.1erely as a man, not as Marcel 
ground of understanding, it follows that the again without props, without words, without Army. In 1946 he began a serious pursuit of Marceau. Last year, in an interview in the theater, always the reflection of the times, protection--stand like a r.1atador against an his career when he enrolled in Charles r.,agazine Oui, he explained: "I lnake should be influenced to reactive this audience. Marceau is a consumr.,ate artist. Dullin's School of Dramatics in the Sarah everything human in me burst and show Pedium of universal symbols." He should on no account be missed." 
classical ballet comes to smc 

Recently back from a truimphant tour of The soloists of the Harkness Ballet are: Europe, the Harkness Ballet will appear at Christopher Aponte, Manola Assensio, Saint Mary's College for one performance Darrel Barnett, Linda Di Bona, Clar only Wednesday at 8:00p.m. in O'Laughlin Cravey, Miguel Campaneria, Helen Auditorium. Heimnan, Chris Jensen, Miyoko Kato, 
Founded in 1963 by its artistic director, Tanju Tuzer, Jeannette Vondersaar, and Rebekah Harkness, the Harkness Ballet is Zane Wilson. one of the nation's leading dance com­The appearance at Saint Mary's is the 
panies. It was founded to preserve the fifth stop on the Company's 23-<:ity United great tradition of classical ballet and at the States tour, which begins February 3 at same lime press forward into new frontiers McCarter Theatre, Princeton, New Jersey,of the dance, sponsoring a fresh approach to and includes stops in Chicago, Minneapolis, dance technique, choreography, musical Richr:10nd (Virginia), Duluth, Columbus compostition and design. <Ohio), and Durham <North Carolina), 
During the Company's recent eleven-<:ity before concluding March 17 in Montclair, European tour, the Christian Science New Jersey. The company will appearMonitor covered the Harkness Ballet's April9-21 in New York at the new Harkness appeat·ance at the Spoleto Festival and Theater. A European and Middle East tour 
wt·ote: "The Harkness Ballet, a young is planned for May through August. handsome company, left spectators gasping at its power, verve, and electricity." In Lausanne, Switzerland, The Tribune wrote: Tickets fm· the Harkness Ballet a1·e $2.00 
,_.
"With artists of such high quality, the fm· students, $3.50 for non-students and are Ha1·kness Ballet can face any hard-to-please available from the office of progr~ming at audience." the college, 284-4176. 


Wednesday, February 13, 1974
the observer 
Campus briefs • • • 
Legal aid sets hours 
The legal aid society of the Notre Dame Law School will set up counseling hours on Wednesday and Friday from 2:00 to 4:30p.m. for anyone who has a problem regarding leases. Services will be in the Law School. 11 _
n.emory partyis open 
to all ND-8MC students·, 
tL • 

F •d
.CI.lS rl ay 
by Bill Sohn Staff Reporter 
The Senior Class will sponsor an arr.Hwy party this Friday night, February 15th, from 9 p.m. till 1 
a.r.1. It is called "A Saint Valen­tine's Day Massacre at the Ar­r.lory" and will be held at the In­diana National Guard Armory in South Bend. 
According to Senior Class President Jerry Samaniego, the party is to help the senior class with its expenses and to provide a good time for the students. 
The party will feature 50 kegs of beer, hot dogs, and peanuts. The admission fee of three dollars per person entitles a person to all the beer, hot dogs, and peanuts he can consun1e. Entertainment will be by the Mark Bloom Band. 
Buses for the armory will leave the circle at 8:30p.m., 9:00p.m., and 9:30p.m. and are free. 
The party is being coordinated by Charley Morrison, Meatball, Tom Jenkins, Buck Rodgers, and Jim Pingle. 
Charley Morrison explained, "The seniors on their way out are throwing a big party to do things up right." He also expects that all the beer will be consumed, knowing the senior class. 
"This will be the best Armory 
party ever," commented Meatball. 
The party is not restricted to seniors but is open t.o all students, accm·ding to Tom Jenkins. 
Tickets for the party will be sold in the Dining Halls on Wednesday, Thu1·sday, and Friday nights. 
Architecture Department plans trip 
by Judy Peterson 
Staff Reporter 
The Architecture Department is sponso1·ing a trip to San Francisco during Spl'ing break. Spencer Hall, an architecture instructor in charge of the trip, has described it as an ideal chance for students to compare the architecture of their home cities to that of San Fran-
Senior Class .:ellow 
SENIORS•••• "Show Some Pride" NOMINATE4THE PERSON 
OF YOUR CHOICE 
Petitions available in student govt. office. 
Questions, call Jerry 232·3876 
cisco. 
Students. will leave South Bend on March 8th and return on the 18th. The round trip fare on United Airlines is $155. This figure in­cludes transportation to and from the airports. 
Hotel accommodations have been made at the Hotel Mark Twain, which is conveniently located to the city. Room prices range fmm $16 for a double oc­cupancy to $20 for a triple. 
Registration for the trip, which 
will begin today in LaFortune.  A  
$20.00  non-refundable  deposit  is  
required. 

So far the itenerary includes walking tours of San Francisco and visits to cities located around the bay area such as Berkeley, Oakland and Palo Alto. 
Also included in the itinerary are visits to Nappa Valley, the Red­wood Coast Range, and the Sea Ranch Development Project. 
The tennis team, which has a r.1atch in Los Angeles on March 9th, may fly to San Francisco with the Architecture Department. Since the time of departure has yet to be announced, no definite decision has been made. 

Lost ··found relocates 
by Peggy Frericks Staff Reporter 
A centralized location for the lost and found service has been established in the Administration Building in an effort to improve efficiency. It will be co-located with the Traffic Appeal Office in room 150, across from the cashier. 
The new system includes ad­ditional services made possible by a student volunteer group which is wo1·king in conjunction with the Or.1budsman Office of Student Government. The student volunteers will pick up lost items at each lost and found station on campus and deliver them to the central office in the Ad­r.linish·ation Building every week. 
Students will also man the phone at the r.1ain office each weekday night from 7 to 9. 


Enrollment 
•

IS down 
··Final spring semester enrolln1ent at Notre Dame show 8,482 undergraduate and graduate students down 104 from the record fall semester enrollment of 8,586, but up 137 over comparative figurees of a year ago. The 6,731 undergraduate students in the total enrollmP.nt include 835 women. 
There are 1,770 students in the Freshman year of Studies Pmgram, 2,030 in the College of Arts and Letters, 1,267 in Business Administration, 922 in Science, 742 in Engineering, and 147 in a graduate program of Business administration. Notre Dame's Law School has a curre·nt enmllment of 404. 
Totals by class, in addition to the 1,770 freshmen, include 1,571 sophomores, 1,635 juniors, 1,664 seniors, and 69 in fifth and sixth year programs. 
The spring term total of 8,482 students compares with 8,345 in 1973, 8,054 in 1972, and 7,948 in 1971. 
The figure also includes those 
Notre Dame students studying at 
campuses in Innsbruck, Austria; 
Angers, France; University of Sophia, Tokyo; Mexico City, Rome and London. 
Hall reps hold meeting 
by Gregory Allen Staff Reporter 
The Comr.1unity Service 
Direchws from ten halls held their 
fit·st r.1eeting last night at Bulla 
Shed. The idea of a Community 
Service Director in each hall was 
introduced at the Hall Presidents 
Council Peeling three weeks ago 
by Br. Joseph McTaggart., 
assistant director of Campus 
Ministry. 
The task of each director is to 
r.-aintain within the hall an 
awareness of the need for com­
r.-unily services and an at­
r.,osphere of participation. 
Ar iast night's r.leetign details 
were clarified and a 1·egular 
r.,eeting schedule was established. 
"We will r.1eet regularly now to 
inforr.1 the directors about the 
voluntary agencies on campus," 
said B1·. McTaggart. "In future 
Peelings we plan to have Fr. 
Schlaver, the director of volunteer 
se1·vices, and the Ombudsman." 
Br. McTaggart said the student 
directors are enthusiastic. 
"The1·e's a guy in the hall for many 
ulher things. We want to focus 
attention on whether the hall is 
addressing itself to the needs of the 
vulunteer se,·vices," he said. "I 
'hink it is significant that we are 
r.-akinR such a flove. By...;n~e;.;;;x:;,.t.::.Y.;;;ea;;;r 
Spend Spring Break In 





SAN FRANCISCO 
March 8 to March 18 
only $165.00-includes 
* 
Round trip airfair via United DC-8

* 
Transportation to and from Chicago 


ALSO AVAILABLE BY FURTHER ARRANGEMENT
* Accomodations at the Hotel Mark Twain­Downtown San Francisco--at reduced rates 
DOUBLE-$8.00 per person TRIPLE-$6.70 per person
* Optional tours of the San Francisco area 
LIMITED SEATS AVAILABLE 
Reservations and Deposits will be taken today$20 non-refundable and tomorrow at .mie Student Union Ticketdeposit required. 
Office-LaFortune center. 12 to 1 p.m. and 7-8 
p.m. Also in the Architecture Bldg. from 9 a.m.
sponsored by Calif. Club 
to 5 p.m. 
we hope to have the wrinkles out so that each hall will consider it part of its ubligations to assist the cor.1r.-unity services program." 
No comment 

yet ••• 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter Fr. Burtchaell, Dr. Faccenda, 
256-0111 
Cards Books Magazines Art Supplies 
ea11:un• LQUIDA ION 
of 
STEREO & TAPE CENTER 
.................................. 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1974 
..................................

Kuss Head Jlhone:s 

l,JUad Het·o•·•ls 
Wu-,..-trad,; Tapt·~ (Hod., Cl:ass~t·:d. Country & Wcslel'll) 
T:IJ>C.' C:u·ricl' Ca.;cl!l 
l":tl' ~e:tkCI'S 
:lmall lntc•·c·um :lystcms 
!lot·ket Hadios 
Auto Antcmws 
Auto BurKhll' Alarms 

Au&o Hmlios  
2-5" TVs  
Flkker UKht:J  Sf.K!llkCI'S  
Bl:u:k Ughl!i  
Beer Can Lil{hts  <"ompuocnt.s  
Many other miJ:K·  Items  llot.lular Systems  

:\IANY l"Sl::IJ: t ·ar Stereo!~ -Homl· Slcrco:1 ­Spc.1kcrs -Tapes -Hct·ord 1JI:t.)"Cr:J ­~,Juad Aduplurs -lUJ:K·. Ht:palr 1>art.s 

MIDWEST AUCTION SERVICE 
Phone: 272·4433 
AUCTIONEERS e LIIIUIDATOAI Phone: 272·4433 
.....-..."'"'· ..... """'· ........ ....,. DON KAMOOl .......... _
EVELYN UIIIIOL."'"" 
..., 
and Dr. Ackerman declined comment until Wednesday on the statement given by SBP Dennis Etienne at the SLC that certain adr.1inistrative per­sonnel have not treated the students honorably with regard to the LaFurlune renovation project. In the statement Etienne 
(continued on page 3) 

Home Sl.erco ~ystcms, 5 to 12U watts l.alt!st -1-t·h:UllleJ I.,Juadrasooit: Sound J::quipment IUO -C:ar Stereo & T:1pe PJayer.s 
(Boman-:'duntz-Audiovox) lJU,ad tl-track Tape Players 
Lar~c ~lm·trohome .\todernistk Console A.\1-F.\1 Htword Hayer 35 -tl-tr;ll·k Portables (.'assettc .Portables with and witbout Radio 
l:tlliji(IJII 
1:00 P.M. 
MOVED FOR CONVENIENCE OF SALE TO: 
AUTO AUCTION BUILDING 1209 E. McKINLEY, MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 
1'\.\TIONALL'\" ADVERTISED BRAND NAMES 
SlTH AS: 
VILNi;EH ~ Al"DlOVOX -JVC ­GHUNDIG -1\-L-H -HITACHI ­
Ut:NTZ -80l\1AN -GARRARD 
Wednesday, February 13, 1974 the observ~r 
'Women in Computers' 
SMC lecture series continues 
by Janet Denefe Staff Reporter 
"Women and Computers" was the subject of a lecture presented by Patricia Costello at Saint Mar·y's Tuesday evening. It was 1he second in a series of seven iectures concerning "Con­temporary Issues in Business and Econor:1 ics." 
Costello is an industry advisor for Honeywell Information 
Systems, Inc. She graduated from Costello began as a prgrammer Saint Mary's in 1958 with a degree trainee, was promoted to an in business and has since been associate nalyst, and then became employed as a marketing a systems analyst. As an industry researcher for Proctor and advisor, her pl"imary function is Gamble, Papermate, supporting Honeywell's ac­Weyerhauser·, and Helene Curtis. counting applications. She is the acting product manager and also is 
She joined Honeywell in 1968 involved in some pre-sale work. because of its wide opportunities Her territory covers thirteen fm· advancement. "The computer Pidwestern states. mdustry has gown so rapidly that Costello emphasized that "it is there has been no time to develop necessary to be creative. There prejudice against a race m· sex " are r.1any jobs today that di not she said. ' exist a year ago." Her· own job is a
l ' 
"ull "'.. her seeing the need for it
and convincing Honeywell of her capabilities. 
Costello quoted a reliahl~> source as saying that "if the rapid technical advance that has taken place in data processing had oc­curred in aviation, we would have had a Pan on the r:10on eight years after Kitty Hawk." 
The Honeywell representative pointed out that such a dynamic field is wide open for females. Wor:,en are working in industry P a n a g e r:1 e n t , s y s t e m s r.1anager:1ent, sales, technical writing, data entry systems, syster:1s r·epr·esentation, field engineer·ing, and repairing. 
She advised that those interested in the cor:1puter industry should "have a r:1ind for detail and a hunger for knowledge. They should want to know why and how cor:1puters are used." 
It was stressed that prospective er:1ployees r:1ust be willing towork hard. Top-level positions involve "found the clock work and ex­tensive travelling." However, Costello concluded, "The limit is up to you!" 
This series of lectures is spon­
sored by the Department of 
Business Adr:1inistration and 
Economics at Saint Mary's. 
Subsequent lectures will be an­
nounced and the public is invited, 
free of charge. 

Simon bars discrimination 
Washinton <UPI>-Energy dirctor William E. Simon Tuesday barred service station owners from discrimination against motorists by selling gasoline only to regular customers or by selling large amounts in advance. 
.,...-------------.
AN EVENING WITH 
Rod





McKuen 
LIVE, IN PERSON, WITH ORCHESTRA 

IN CONCERT· FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 22 • 8 PM! 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM· SOUTH BEND, IND. RESERVED SEATS $4.50-5.50-6.50 
Now on sale at Morris Auditorium Box Office or by mail. Send payment with self-addres;ed, stamped envelope to: McKuen, Morris Aud., 211 N. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
Special Notre Dame-St. Mary's Discount! 
$1.00 off each ticket. Purchase discounted 
tickets at Morris Auditorium Box Office! 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Need ride D.C. or Charlot­tesville Va. Spring Break . Call 8549. 
2or more Marcel Marceau tix. 234·2795. Thank you, come agian. 
Need 1 Marcel Marceau ticket. Call Robin 289-5235 evening. 
Need ride East on 1-80 to Cleveland or Akron. Thurs. or Fri. Jim 289-3519. 
Housemate share 2 BR house Foster Ave. (off Angela). 234­8314. 
Need 4 people to share house next year. Call 233-9231. 
Broken 10-spd. bike or partsthereof. Chris 8173. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost small silver ring with red star sapphire. Call 1804. 
Lost set of 5-6 keys, one red. 
Please call 4155. 
Arctic coat accidentally taken at Dirt Week Smoker at Maury's. Friday. Name in. side, ARBEGUST. Am freezing call 282-2112. No questions. 
Found Porchs keys in Facultylot. Hayes Healy Rm 254. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Jerry,Thanks to Y.OU and your fine staff for the advice and technical assitance in Qrintingthe Placement Bureau 
R.D. Willemin 
schedules  in  the  OBSERVER  
each week.  
Gratefully,  

Director 
MIKE, Now that you're 21 you're going to start depreciating
Yours in accounting, 
R. PowelL 
To Renee, Mary, Terry, Joan, Betsy, Carol, Pat, Katie, Barb, Jane, Marybeth, Maureen, Ann, Jo, Loretta, Sue, Laura, Marty, Chris, Judy, Cindy,Claire, Cathy, Sister Jean: Be my Valentine? 
W. Skeffington Higgins. 
NOTICES 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Austrailia, 
-europe, S. America, Africa. Students all professions and occupations $700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid,overtime, sightseeing. Free information. TRANS WORLD RESEARCH CO. Dept. F3, P.O.Box 603, Corte Madera, Ca. 94925. 
Experienced typist will do term papers manuscripts, etc. Call 233·5332. 
We need people who can farm, speak Spanish or French, teach 
English or Math, have degrees in history, 90vernment, psychology, soc1ology, coun­seling, eaucation or science. See Vista . Peace Corps in the library Feb. 11·15. 
B-P formal Feb. 16, 9-12:30. LaFortune Ballroom. fix $5, for info call 1278 or 1269. 
GAIN career experienceemployers demand. We need ' de9rees in business, law, ar­chitecture, economics, and engineering. See Vista-Peace Corps in the library Feb. 11·15. 
Need volunteer rock band for retarded. Call Mast 234-2101. 
We still have youth fare to Europe!! Call Clark 234-2098. 
Every Friday 4:45 the Greyhound leaves the Circle for Chicago. Call Tom 272-1807 for information. 
Good tickets are now on sale at 
the student union ticket office. 
March 1 and 2 performance of 2 
g~n~lemen of Verona at Morris 
CIVIC. 
FOR SALE 
'63 Plymouth: Power, new tires, good condition. Best offer. 8132. 
Before you buy a diamond learn the facts. Ken 1859. 
National championshipbeanbag chair, $18.95, lowest price in town. Order at the senior bar or call 7521. 

1 know that we are supposed to pay $50 this week, but what exactly is it for? How does this affect housing for next year? 
The $50 dollars is a deposit toward your enrollment for next year. Everyone r.mst comply with this proced.ure, ~lthough ce~tain scholarship holders need not pay the deposit. This money Will be eredited to the student's net obligation for the fall semester. 
Besides being just an advanced registration, the deposit also serves two other functions. It informs Housing that you will be here next year· and you will need a room; and informs the Registrar that you will need a Form 50. This is why this deposit is so important. The deadline is Ft·iday. 
I havl' two questions. Will forced tripling be allowed next year? 
And arl' scholarship students exempt from the room lotteries? 
The answers to both are no. Tripling will not be allowed except in cases where only a handful of students will have to leave the dorm. To the second question, only those holding athletic scholarships will be exePpt fror.1 the lottery. 
What is being done concerning housing for parents during graduation in May? I have heard nothing so far. 
InfmPation will be sent within a couple weeks to all Seniors and 
•heir parents concerning graduation. The letter will contain an application for housing for parents and friends. All the dorms l'Xcept Lyons will be used to house them. . 
If any students wish to remain on campus for the graduatwn ceremonies, they are to write either Jerry Samaniego or Marie Therese Devitt. 
Student Union Invites You To 


ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 n ites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
1,12 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar 

* 
Baggage handling & transportation to & from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
HURRY WHILE THE SEATS LAST! 
Reservations now being taken at SU Ticket Office Total payment of $270 due by February 14 (Valentine's Day) Questions -.call Sween at 3669 

the observer Wednesday, February 13, 1974 
Stark at 99 as tankers take two 

John FinerCill ::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~;;~ed senior Ed Strack to the 
A 50.7 finish by Meagher and a rhird place finish by Wallach in the 100-yard freestyle preceded three­
Notre Dame's swimmers moved their coach, Dennis Stark, within one win of the century mark with their wins over St. Bonaventure and 
consecutive event wins by

Blarney Stone(d) 
by Hal Munger 
There is a homemade !her­r.>ometer on the bulletin board at poolside in Rockne Memorial which presently reads "99." It represents Coach Dennis Stark's rota! wins since he initiated the swir.1r.1ing team at Notre Dame years ago. 
Nur.1ber 99 came at home against Bradley University yesterday as the Irish tankmen drownl:'d the visitors, 74-39. It was ' heir seventh of the year (tieing the l'<ot!·e Da1~1e season-victory r.1ark) against only two setbacks. 
Saturday afternoon, ND swam past Sr. Bonaventure. The Bonnies are as ir.1portant to defeat, in the Irish swimr.,ers' r.>inds, as USC is in rhe football teams' 76-37 was the final rally. 
Bradley. Bradley. Bob Ebel earned 250.35 points for 
meet was the victory by the all­senior 400-yard freestly relay ·====================================================================================================A. C. C. madness ~:~i~,ll'~o!);.';[.·l th~o~~~~~~ ~;!~~ rear.1. Fischer, Graham, O'Con­
Notre Dame is in action this weekend in the Athletic and Convocation Center. ''Are you crazy?" someone reading this thinks. "The cagers are in South Carolina and the hockey team is in Minnesota!" 
So! There are other sports here at Notre Dame. There are other athletes here who are just as proud of their accomplishments as football, basketball and hockey players are of theirs. 
The A.C.C. is going to resemble Ringling Brothers' Circus this weekend because there's going to be that three-ring atmosphere. Track... wrestling... fencing. Each sport in action this weekend, and if you think rhey're not exciting, you're missing the point about Notre Dame sports. 
Did you know that world records might be set in the A.C.C.? Did you knnw that a school record could be set in the A.C.C.? Did you know that Ted. D. Baer was going to be here this weekend? The three answers should be yes. but unfortunately, many students will answer in the negative. 
For instance, Friday at 6 p.m., the Notre Dame tracksters host the 48th Central Collegiate Conference championships. Eighteen of the finest reams from the Midwest will be here, including track powers like Bowling Green, Michigan, Southern Illinois (defending champions), Eastern M1ch1gan and Kansas. Some of the greatest track stars today have come out of this CCC meet (which originated, under the direction of one Knute Rockne, at ND in 1927): Dave Wattle and former ND runner Rick Wohlhuter are just two. 
Did you know that Eastern Michigan's Stan Vinson holds the world record Cover an 8-lap track) for the 440-yard dash? Did you know that the Convo track is an 8-lapper? Did you know that Kansaspolevaulter, Terry Porter, also has his sights set on the 18 foot barrier and a possible world record? He has vaulted 17-6 already this season. 
The Irish will be there, too, and Mike Gahagan has to rate as a favorite in his specialty, the 1000-yd. run. And AI Pulikowski, the freshman shot putter, also r.1ust rate consideration in his event (which well be held in the Old Fieldhouse starting at 4:30p.m. that day). 
The trials again will be held on Friday at 6 p.m. and the finals will start at noon on Saturday. It should be worth your visit, especially since it is free to ND and SMC students who present their ID. Coach Don Faley should be awarded with good attendance for his efforts. 
The wrestlers, now 10-5, hopefully will establish a new season-victory r.,ark with wins over John Carroll (7:30 p.m. Friday) and Akron <Saturday at 1 p.rn.). Coach Fred Pechek has done an excellent job his first year. 
The John Carroll match could turn out to be a repeat of two seasons ago. Both Al Rocek and Mike Fanning played big parts in that exciting comeback win with their win and pin respectively. And both are back this season with a strong supporting cast of Dave Boyer, Fritz Buenning, and John Dowd to name a few. 
The Irish grapplers should have extra-incentive against Carroll Because the two teams finished one-two <Carroll the former) in the National Catholic Tournament two weeks ago. And the incentive should carry over to Akron, who beat the injury-depleted Irish last season. 
And for you early risers on Saturday morning, the Irish swordsmen fence their last home meet of the season against Ohio State. Cleveland Srate and Michigan State starting at 9:30 a.m. 
Last season, the fencers 02-o thus far) beat MSU and Cleveland State, but lost to the Buckeyes, 14-13. They are looking for revenge, and they have something extra--a stuffed mascot named Ted. D. Baer. 
Baer, who is one of the few persons to know both Coach Mike DeCicco and Tina Louise intimately, has been the team's mascot since Gilligan's Island folded a couple of years ago. He had been Thurston Howell's constant companion in the series. 
:'Last season, we lost to those Buckeyes," he said. "But this year will be different. Besides, me and Hayes (Woody) don't get along." 
Mike Matranga, Jim Mullenix, Tom Coye, Roy Seitz and freshman sabreman Sam DiFiglio have been excellent thus far for the Domers. They'd be a highly competitive group against any school. 
You r.1ight not think any of these three sports rate in excitement with football, basketball and hockey. You might think that they are not un­derstandable. But you're wrong on both counts. Do yourself a favor... enjoy them this weekend. As for this writer, I think I would go to see Notre Dame and anybody in tiddly-winks. That's what college athletics is all about. 
The Irish were hot yesterday, jumping off to a first-event win in the 400-yard medley relay. A finish of 3:47.5 by Bob Thompson, senior Jim Fischer, Bob Reilly and Jim Kane ensured a quick 7-0 ND lead. Senior Joe O'Connor won the 200 yard freestyle in 1:50.3 with teamr.1ate Drew Wallach right behind in second place. In all, the Irish wonnineofthe13eventsand never yielded that initial lead. 
The 50-yardfreestylewent to Jim Kane in 22.6 seconds. An Irish one­rwo combination came in the 200­yar·d individual medley with Senior Ed Graham topping all con­restants. Jim Meagher finished second. 
Mark Foster won the one-meter diving with 234.7 points, followed by reamr.,ate, senior Bili Hopkins. SriU another first-second duo came 
in rhe 2:09.0 finish of the 200-yard butterfly. Freshman Bob Reilly 
finished second. The climax of the 
nor. and Strack captured the event 
Irish third in polls 
UPI Ratings 
Point<I UCLA (311) (18-1) 311! 2 l'>orth Carlina St. (2) (li·l) .. 27R 3. Notre Dame (!R-1) -~4-l 
4. Nurth Carolina (17·2) 
~10 
5 \'anderb11t (lH·I). li() 6 Maryland (15-4) 114 7. Marquette (IX-3) · . it 8. Plftsburgh (19-1) -629 lnd1ana (14-.1) . . i() 10. Long Rea('h St. ( 1k·2) 49 II Alabama (16-:l) . 45 12 Pr<ivrdence (IH-3) :19 lJ Snuthem Cal (16-3) 1R 
14. Kansas (l'i·4l . 23 
15. M1th1gan tl5-3) . 16 
16 South Carolina (16-3) lo 
17 Loursv11le (16-4) l:t 
18. Crr1ghton (IM-4) . 11 
19 l'lah (16-5). 5
20. Purdue (14-6) _ 3 
Hockey stats 
WCII..\ Standings 
WI.TPts~gaM1ch. Terh (21~6-!). 1.; ii! 32 124 il'! Denver {li·l1·!) I~ 10! :10 110 114 
Mmn.(I4-HH) II 74!6101 i9 Wisconsin (lii-9-5) 10 9ii !5 lOR 91 M1ch. State (li-12·1 I 11 I! I 23 124 1:12 Mmn.·Duluth {16-11·1) IIlli I!I 9~ 10:1 Mlt'higan (l:i-12·1) 9 1! 119 H-1111! Colo. College (12-13·1) 9 Ill 19 971117 SolreDame(1~·1ii-l) 91!119106 9i \orth Dakota (9-111-1) i IS 0I~ 69 113 
li.Utf:S Tt:ESD.H' 
St Lows at Wisconsm WF.EKF.SD SERIES 
\otre Dame al ~hnm·sota t'olorado Collegt• at ~!Jrh1gan ~f1nn.-Duluth at ~llrh1gan Stall' 
\or1h [lakota at ~!Jch1gan Tech 
\ortht•astern at Denwr (Sat -Sun.l Irish Statistics Gms (; .\ Pis P·" DeLorenZI. w :!8 19 24 4:1 i-14 
Bumbacco. w :!8 1:1 24 3i 6-15 W1l1Jams. w !! 16 19 :~1 2.6--lll \yrop. d·c :!.'i 9 25 :14 lii-3!1 bTael<;On. w :!8 20 12 32 j'.J~ Cum·. d :!8 s 24 :r! 11<-:lti Conro)·. c :!8 8 :!3 31 6-1! Walsh. c 21 15 10 :!5 12·32 Plrus. w :!8 H 16 ~4 11·!2 S<·hafer. c-d :!8 4 17 !I ; 14 Hamlllon. w '!i H I! ~'U 12-24 ('Iarke. d :?6 I 9 Ill ;. 14 Bruwnsch1dle. d :!8 I , s ~<-lo Tanlam. c :!8 I 4 i-1~ Larson. d !I 0 4 !l-IS Bourque. d 18 1 4 4-S Olive. c j '3 1·2 \0\ltzkl. w :!8 I 2·4 Bwrs. w li I 2-1 .·\ugu,1me. w H 1 fl-O Karsma. w 3 1 1~0 !.. Cu~·. d 3 0 ().0 Bos.<y. d I 0 fl-O D. Ho.,.·e. w 1 0 0-0 Rench 3·6 
\otre Dame 28 136 235 371 166-3.19 
OppOnents. _:!8 124 19i 321 168-352 
Po,.·er Pta)· Goal!r-SD 35 of 115 (3114 
per centl: Opp. 29 of 115 (25.2 per cent)Sltortllalldecl Goals--/\0 4. Opp. 3. Gu~aders Gms G.-\ 1h'g. Sans Kronholm _ .:!8 120' 4.:!9 1159 Sm1th . 17 I 500 5 Sotre Dame. 28 121' 4.32 861 Oppenents 28 136 486 939 Sro~ by Periods Sotre Dame. :li 59 39 1-136 Oppenents. U 41 40 2-124 

AP Poll 
I. l'CLA (49) (18·1) 998 
2. 
No. Car. St. (17·1) . 119.1 

3. 
Not!'I' Dame (1) (18-1) i9i 

4. 
North Carolina (17·2) 1>12 


5. Vand<•rn11t (18·1) _ .576 
6. Mary!and (15-4) 431 
7. Pittsburgh (19-1) JH6 
8. Alabama (16·3) 3:11 
9. Marquette (18·3) . 302 
10 Long Beach St (11\-2) . ..m 
11. Providence (18-3). 2;;6 
12. lndJana (14-3) 215
13. 
Soulhern Cal. (16-,1) 14/i

14. 
South Carolina (16-3) 1:14 


15. Mich1gan (15-3) ' i6
16. Kansas (15-4) ..... 57 
17. Creighton (18-4) . 41 
18. LOUISVIlle (15-4) . 4ll 
19. Utah (1&-5) .. . 25 
20._A_Jiwna (16-5) 17 The Top Twenty. with first-place
votes in parentheses, season records 
thrnugh games of Saturday, !o'eb. 9and 
tolal pemts Points labulated on bas1s of 
20-IS.lf>.I4-12-IO.H-7·6-5·4 3·2-1; 



SKIERS/ 
Information concerning the spring trip to Utah. Thursday 8 P.M. 1-C LaFortune -Notre Dame Ski Club 
WED. FEB. 13th 
Thru 
SUN. FEB. 17th 
NOTRE DAME 

Athletic and Convocation Center 




fAPADES 
7 PRIC 5 ~ TICKETS ON SALE:
PERFORMANCES E : NOTRE DAME A. c. c. WED. (Teacher's Credit $2.50 $4.00 $5. BOX OFFICE 
U • N' ht) All Seats Reserved MON. SAT. g to s 
RIOR 1g 1/ • • k f 
THURS. 8:00p.m. /2 pr1ce t1c ets or Notre 
FRI. 8:00p.m. Dame • St. Mary's students SAT. 2:00 and 8:00 p.11 ' th f
SUN. 2:00 and &:00 p. on ese per ormances: For 
Thurs Spm, Sat. 2 pm,Sun 6 m 
in 3:30.1. 
It was a fitting conclusion to the home-r.1eet season. In addition to rhe six new r.1eet records, this year's graduating seniors were 1 ecognized for their contributions over rhe past four years. 
Srark will have to achieve that century win on the road this season as the Irish begin their last three Peets of rhe season this Saturday at Purdue. 
leers lose Pirus 
Irish hockey playoff hopes were seriously dashed Monday af­rer noon when freshr.1an right wing Aiex Pirus (Toronto. Ont.J suf­fered rom knee ligaments in practice. He will be operated on 
•his noon at S1. Joseph's Hospital and be lost for the season. 
ACAPULCO SUNNY 
85° 


