l 
I 
On The Inclde 
An Tostal starts tomorrow ... page 2 
Action Express ... page 6 


s•rving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 108 Wednesday, April 17, 1974 
Court decision may jeopardize Irish Wake 
sells alcoholic beverages to a minor and one who gives alcoholic beverages to a Fred Graver minor," the decision stated. John 
Contributing Editor Macheca, Dean of Students, was questioned about the possible ramifications of the ruling to student life. 
The Indiana Court of Appeals, in a "This appears to be a major departure
unanimous ruling last Tuesday, ruled that from previous interpretations of the any person who gives intoxicating existing alcohol laws," he said. beverages to a minor is liable for any "We have requested a copy of the full 
damage the minor might cause. The decision for Dr. Faccenda to review in 
ruling is expected to affect Student life at detail and to determine possibleNotre Dame, especially in regard to the ramifications for Notre Dame and current 
Irish Wake. The Wake is scheduled to be student life," said Macheca. held in Stepan Center this Saturday Wally Gasior, director of the An Tostal evening. weekend, answered questions about the The decision is a precedent in terms of possible effects on the Irish Wake with a 
fixing liability in cases where beer or statement. liquor was given to a person under 21, who It read: "We have been working verylater was involved in an accident. Judge closely with the Dean of Students on the 
Joe E. Lowdermilk wrote in the opinion, Irish Wake. We have been informed of this "The legislature said there was no dif­case by Mr. Macheca, but are not as yet
ference between selling and giving." certain of the ramifications of this decision. Hopefully we can decide the Stemming from a suit brought by the effect of this case upon the Irish Wake with 
survivors of three men killed in a car crash the office of Student Affairs." 
in Indiana on May 3, 1971, the suit involved Gasior reported that Dean Macheca was an accident with a pickup truck struch disappointed with the decision in that it head-Qn by Donald R. Farmer, then 20. throws a disproportionate amount of at­
Court records show that Farmer had tention on alcohol at the Wake. He had 
been drinking at the home of his sister. He hoped that the Irish Wake would serve as a pleaded guilty to a charge of causing a model for alternatives to Armory Parties. 
death while driving under the influence of The decision has a direct effect on the alcohol. University in light of its "in loco parentis" The resulting civil suit named as poszition. Also, all arguments which have 
defendants Farmer and his sister. She been used by Dr. Faccenda, Vice appealed, contending Indiana statutes do President of Student Affairs, in discussion 
not prohibit giving alcoholic beverages to with the Trustees about on-campuspersons under 21. She also argued that the drinking are invalidated. law does not apply to individuals not in­There will be a meeting between Dean volved in distribution or sale of such in­Macheca, Dr. Faccenda, Wally Gasior,
toxicants. and Student Body President Pat 
The appellate court stated the laws refer McLaughlin today to discuss the decision to any person, not just liquor vendors. and its effects on student life, particularly 
"We see no distinction between one who the Irish Wake. 

Nixon barnstorming fails 
GOP upset in Michigan 
By CHARLES W. BELL Sparling, 45, is a former 
SAGINAW, Mich. <UPI) -newspaperman from Saginaw. Democrat J. Bob Traxler won This is his first political race an upset victory although for 13 years he was an Tuesday in a special congres­aide to former Rep. James sional election which brought Harvey. President Nixon to Michigan to Harvey resigned earlier this campaign for his Republican year to accept appointment as candidate in a traditionally federal judge, creating the GOP district. vacancy. 
Turnout was unusually heavy.
With 75 per cent of the vote Republicans and Democrats counted, Traxler polled more agreed Nixon's personal inter­
than 52,000 votes while Republi­vention shook some of the can candidate James M. 
apathy from the campaign.

Sparling Jr. polled just over Traxler rode the Watergate44,000. 
issue hard and branded Spar­ling as a pawn of NixonThe election in this tradition­policies.
ally Republican stronghold became the focus of national In his concession speech, attention last week when Nixon Sparling said Nixon's appear­
spent nearly five hours barn­ance on his behalf last week did storming for Sparling. It was not play a role in Traxler's the President's first such foray victory. 
"This was no Watergatesince his 1972 re-election 
campaign. referendum", Sparling said. "The President did not help me 
This is the last of five special and did not hurt me." congressional elections regard­Traxler hit the Watergateed as Watergate barometers. issue hard during the campaign . 
and linked Sparling to Nixon 
Roo1ns assured for those who returned housing contracts 
by John Burger 
Mulcahy explained that students either "forgot to return their contracts or held their options too 
Students who returned their long and took chances." housing contracts by the April 15 As of today, he is not sure deadline will have no problem in whether these students will be obtaining a room in their desired forced off-campus. Determination halls, claimed Fr. John Mulcahy, of any available beds on campus 
director of Campus Housing. will depend on the RA selection, Those who failed to return their the number of transfers, and the contracts will be placed on a contracts received from students 
waiting list. abroad. Fourteen beds are available in 
At the present, the un­the men's dorms, Mulcahy ex­dergraduate enrollment is 5112, 982 female students and 4130 males.
plained, but the students who are 
abroad this year and have mailed The University plans to accept 1625 their contracts before the 15th freshmen next September with have preference over those on the 1250 males and 375 females. 
waiting list. Only three girls have said they Once the contracts have been are moving off-campus next year, Mulcahy stated. Over 20 girls have 
recieved from the students 
abroad, the remaining beds will be not returned their coP tracts. There assigned on a firstcome, first serve are only four empty beds in the 
female dorms, but this problem isbasis from the students who 
returned contracts late. easily remedied by cutting back on Mulcahy recieved 30 contracts the freshmen enrollment, ac­
cording to Mulcahy.
alone on Tuesday. These students will know if they recieve a bed on A stay-hall system is being 
initiated this year in the girls'campus by May 10, Mulcahy stated. 
dorms. Thus, girls were able to 
Mulcahy was pleased with the stay in their present dorm or move contract returns. Because of the to Lyons. There are 134 beds "great majority" of contracts available in Lyons and 192 names handed in, the mandatory lottery in the hall lottery. for determining who would move Seventy beds are also available off-campus was cancelled. in other women's halls. There are 
256 students officially stated no extra beds in Badin, 21 in Breen­their intentions to move off­Phillips, 39 in Farley and ten in campus. These students plus the Walsh. ones who did not return their Room picks will be held on May contracts totaled the stipulated 800 1, 2, or 3 depending on the students that had to leave campus. respective hall's system. 


-

Traxler, 42; a state represen­Pop~ Paul VI greets Rv. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., during a private
policies.

tative since 1962, ran strongly aud~ence Notre Dame 's president had during a recent visit to the
The Democratic victory was 
in his hometown of Bay City Vat1can.. Father Hesburgh briefed the pontiff on the progress of the
the fourth in five special 
Ecumemcal Institute in Jerusalem, which opened in 1971 under Notre
and equally well in urban congressional elections this 
Saginaw. Sparling did well in Dame:s administration. It was Pope Paul who asked Father Hesburgh to 
year and some observers said it 
the rich farmland that makes estab_hsh ~ center. for Christian ecumenism following his dramatic
could intensify impeachment 
up the rest of the district. meetmg With the late Orthodox Patriarch Athenagoras in Jerusalem in
pressure in Congress. 

1964. ' 

r----------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 17, 1974
ttie observer
2 
--------------------------------------~---------­
warld 

briefs 
WASHINGTON+ Mills, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said that should most of the Senate vote to convict Nixon-but fall short of the two-thirds majority needed to find him guilty-the President should resign "in the country's interest." 
WASHINGTON UPI-Carla Anderson Hills took office Tuesday as assistant attorney general for civil rights, the highest Justice Department position he.td by a woman since the Wilson ad­ministration. 
WASHINGTON UPI-The Army again failed to fulfill its recruiting goal in March but still expects to end the fiscal year only slightly behind its manpower requirements, Pentagon officials said Tuesday. The officials said they expect the gap to be compensated by a trend toward re-enlistment aomong soldiers who complete their tours of duty. 

4:30p.m.-colloquium, "modular representation theory of the 
general linear and symmetric groups" by prof. carter, spon. by math dept., 226 ccmb 3:30p.m.-lecture, "the psychiogiology of meditation: a look at science research on the effects of transcendental meditation," 
galvin life sci. aud. 7:30p.m.-lecture, "introduction into trans. meet.," 104 o'shag. 8:15p.m.-concert, sue hendersen seld, spn. by music dept. sacred 
heart church 
12-9p.m.-"student faculty show-all media" upper moreau gallery 12-Sp.m.-"student faculty show-all media" lower moreau gallery 12-9p.m.-photography, "photographs, serigraphs, and etc ... " by 
bob kincaid and ed earle, photo gallery, (beneath o'laughlln) 
12-9p.m. -art, "stoneware forms" by bebble grlfmer, hames 
gallery 
?p.m.-meeting, flying club elections, 1119 o'shag 
5 and 7p.m.-film, "jack johnson" spon. by black studies, eng: aud. 
6:30p.m.-meeting, Circle K Club, Puzzle Room, Breen Phillips 

An Tostal to commence with luncheon tomorrow 
by Bob Quakenbush 
Staff Reporter 
John Denver is singing "Sun­shine on My Shoulders" round the clock. Burt Bacharach has been muzzled. Gene Kelly has been hog­tied. And Wally Gasior, chairman of An Tostal, is reportedly playing the An Tostal Committee anthem, "0 Lord Don't Let the Rain Come Down" on his phonograph over and over and over again. 
"There's only one thingaboutAn Tostal we can never insure," said one member of the committee, "and that's beautiful weather. We'd easily spend $1000 of our budget if we could guarantee blue skies and warm temperatures." 
However, rain or shine, An Tostal 74 begins tomorrow. Three days of fun, frolic, friends, festivities, food, frivoligy and just plain foolishness lie in store forthe 
entire  Notre  Dame-St.  Mary's  
community,  as-­ the  Hall  
·-­ ~~  


_,.. BOAC. 
We still have Youth Fares to Europe 
Call Clark 234-2098 and 
save money. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semater except vacations by the stUdents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for • per semester 1$1_. per year l from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
~~!~na ..U56. _ Second class 
~age paid, Notre· Dame, Ind. 

President's Council-sponsored An Tostal Festival formally opens springtime at Notre Dame. 
The first day of An Tostal (a Gaelic term meaning ''festival") is titled "Gentle Thursday," a name many may find misleading, especially after they have done a stint in the pie-throwing booth or jail. 
Thursday's activities commence 
with a sit-down luncheon 
especially prepared by the Notre 
Dame Food Services. The feast 
will have an Irish flavor, so don't 
be surprised if the mashed 
potatoes take on a greenish hue. 
(Continued on page 7) 
c 
A 
M 
p 
u 
s 
v 
I E w 

Coffeehouse may open 
Tom Kruczek Staff Reporter 
In an attempt to give the students a place to go on campus, the Social coordinator of the campus life commission, Ralph Pennino has announced that a new coffee house may be opened late this year for a trial period in the Rathskellar of LaFortune center. The coffeehouse would feature local talent, with the possibility of bringing in outside talent as well if the venture is successful. 
Pennino, who works under Ray Capp at the campus life com­mission stated that if opened up for a week in early May, it will be to determine student interest in a coffee house. ''LaFortune is being renovated, and this is a chance for the students to show interest this year," Pennino observed. "This is going to be a quiet place where you can talk, have something to eat or drink or where you can bring a date." He also went on to state that it may be made a permanent feature of the campus if it is successful. 
Pennino continued, "It would open next year on a three night a week basis, of Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday. The admission would be very cheap, 15 cents or a quarter and the drinks inside also would be very cheap. We would like to be able to serve wine, if we could, but we're not too sure about that as of yet." 
The revenue for this would come from student government's budget allocation, but Pennino stated that the coffeehouse could not run more than $75 a week in the red if it were to succeed. "We also are going to run movies on campus next year to make some money for the coffee house, so we can buy some fur­niture and our own sound system," 
Pennino added. 
The music will feature for two nights a week, folk-rock or jazz, with one night a week being reserved for play or skits to be performed. Pennino concluded by asking that people come out to the coffee house when it is opened for a week this year so that "we can make it into a permanent site, and maybe even bring in some outside talent." 
This Sunday at 1: 15 in the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune, a meeting will be held for all those interested in working either on the coffee house or on the money-making projects to help support the newest showcase of Notre Dame musical talent. 

NOW RENTING 
one and two bedroom furnished apartments 
Featuring: 

+ 
SWIMMING POOL 

+ 
COMMUNITY BUILDING 

+ 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 .BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 


+ 
REFRIGERATOR 

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT 

+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rentr! information or visit crestwood m2nagement compny 3012 east edison road, svuth bend· 




NOMINATIONS FOR GSU 
Now being accepted for Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer. All interested Grads see Bill Lavage, Memorial Library or Paul Bolduc, 373NSH Elections April 26 
flrttfOIIt 

Tires 

GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMEN-T 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of ~otre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Rad1~1, and Jr:nport car tires; at your special price. Also, our Ph!lco appliance and Electronic Department will e_x~en~ the discount. Please bring your J.D. card for iden­
t1f1cat1on. 

OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 


Have you considered a career in INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS? 
Our two-year program, Master in International Business Studies, includes intensive language study; in-depth cul­tural studies; business skills; and a six-month's work experi­ence in Latin America or Europe. 
For further information send coupon to: Director of international Business Studies College of Business Administration The University of South Carolina Columbia, South Carolina 29208 
Name----------------------------------------­
I 
Address-------------------------------------­
I I 

L---------~~~~~~~~~~~~---------J 


Wednesday, April 17, 1974 the observer 
InPIRG election draws lew 
Ken Bradford 
Staff Reporter 

Seven new directors of the Notre Dame chapter of lnPIRG (Indiana Public Interest Research Group) were chosen at a Monday, April 8 meeting in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Joe Shicklich was selected chairman of the InPIRG Board of Directors. Andy Burner, Mark Clark, Blaise Mercadante, Lisa Molidor, Pic Petelle, and Larry Stanton were elected to serve on the Board. The seven directors were chosen from eleven can­didates in the election. 
The Monday election followed a disputed invalidated election which took place Friday, April 5. The reason given for invalidating the Friday election was inadequate publicity, according to retiring InPIRG Chairman Ken Hughes. 
An estimated fifty-five students voted in the Monday night election, while fifty-two students went to the polls Friday night. Both elections were open to all Notre Dame students and in neither election did one percent of the student body vote. 
"The turnout was much less than we expected," Hughes observed. "However, we feel the Monday election was more representative of the campus." 
Hughes noted that the Monday election received publicity from notices posted in each residence hall and from a front-page news story in the Observer. 
Leo Buchignani, who disputed Hughes' decision to invalidate the Friday tally, said that none of the victors in the earlier election chose to appear on the Monday ballot. 
Pointing out that the second election held on only four day's notice, that it was publicized for only two days by poster and only a few hours in the student newspaper and that the number of voters i the elections were "nearly the 
HPC faces summer 
d 
with lnPIRG for two years, discussed the near fut~re of ~o~re
Storage Problem an Dame InPIRG. "Our first pr10nty 
new COde proposa1S 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 

At the Hall Presidents Council meeting last night Rick Golden, Services Commissioner for the Council, announced that the fieldhouse would no longer be available for summer storage of student goods. The discontinued use of the fieldhouse for summer storage is the result of present and 
future  expansions  by  the  Art  
Department  in  its  use  of  the  
building.  

Golden also explained that the Student Union is investigating alternative plans for student summer storage on campus. Two such possibilities were the basement of halls and Stepan Center. According to Golden before such alternative plans could be worked out information was needed regarding the quantity of articles per hall in need of summer storage. To obtain this in­formation he passed out questionnaires to be distributed to the section leaders of each hall. 
. . 
decided that each pres1de~t would take the propo~al back to his hall to p~esent and discuss th~ proposals with the members of his hall. 
Mike Davis, from Alumni Hall presented a report at the meeting; on the community services program sponsored by the HPC in conjunction with Fr. Schlaver and his office in Student Affairs. This program has assisted such campus events as the recent Muscular Dystrophy Dance Marathon and the Red Cross Blood Drive. Plans for the future include an American Cancer society drive to be held at the Blue-Gold game and project FAST to be held in May the proceeds of which would go to draught areas in Africa. 
Other items of business tran­sacted at the meeting were the presentation and distribution of an information services manual by the ombudsman department and a report on the An Tostal picnic lunch this Saturday indicating that there are still a hundred tickets available for persons who had not signed up in advance. 


Also at the meeting represen­tatives from the Student Life Council passed out a list of possible proposals to the University rule code to be presented to ad­ministration representatives at the SLC meeting next week. After some discussion the council 
LOIS TRANTER CRAIG KAPSON _,_--.....~ 259-1981 
IROO·H.AR 
Jordan Ford. 

609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
same," Buchignani noted that "It is very strange that this second election is valid and the first is not." 
Buchignani hinted that a protest may be filed with the ad­ministration, the University Judicial Board or with Student Government. 
Hughes defended the Monday election, saying that the nature of the ongoing InPIRG projects demanded that elections be held without delay. 
The seven new lnPIRG Direc­tors met with Hughes and state lnPIRG organizer Bill Weisert to discuss reorganization and business procedures. Weisert stressed the importance of fur­thering liasion with the University administration and faculty. 
Also important, according to Weisert, are relations and cooperation with the media. "Press is a very big part of InPIRG," he said, noting th power of public shame in consumer af­
fa~~tcklich,whohasbeeninvolved 
is getting organized and com­
~=~inn~~.~,P~:j~~~.wehaveunder 
Among the projects currently
being planned by local InPIRG are a survey of drug prices at area drug stores and attendance at a Standard Oil stockholders meeting 
later this month. 
Shicklich also observed that the state lnPIRG organization is still growing and developing and "our input will be essential." 
town & country ' shopping center  • mini-mall _ ~~ 2340 mi•acle lane -'\..\'-"' mishawaka, indiana 46544  256-0111 Cards Books ,Magazines Art Supplies  

The Playhouse 
525 N. Hill 
Live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat. Happy Hour Mon·Fri 5·7 p.m. Drinks are 2 for 1 
Jam Session Tonight II 
with 3 bands from Gary 
If you compare, you'll select ltna... If you don't compare, don't say we didn't warn you! 
JIM CAMPBELL 120 W. LaSalle Street Suite 1001 South Bend, Indiana 
233-8207 
fi§uP.'

The .tEtna College Plan ... 
UFE &CASUALTY

Life Insurance for students JEtna Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
MONTESSORI 
TEACHER TRAINING 
This Summer on Wooded Campus in Chicago, June 24-Aug. 7 Prepare for the Fastest Growing Field in Education 
(GRADUATE CREDIT AT NO EXTRA COST) 
For Information: MMT-0 1010 W. Chicago Ave. Chicago, Ill. 60622 
_j 

*ATTENTION FRESHMEN* 
Pre-advance registration programs will be conducted for all freshmen intent areas on WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17 at 7:00 p.m.-TONIGHT 
The meeting places for the programs according to intent area are as follows: Arts and Letters Intents Washington Hall 
Business Administration Intents Hayes-Healy Center, Room 122 (A _through Gat 7:00p.m., H through 0 at 8:00p.m., P through Z at 9:00p.m.) 
Engineering Intents 
Aerospace Engineering Bldg., Room 301 Architecture Architecture Bldg., Room 201 Chemical Radiation Lab., Auditorium 
Civil Engineering Bldg., Room 205 Electrical Engineering Bldg., Room 212 Engineering Science Engineering Bldg., Room 22 Mechanical Engineering Bldg., Room 303 Metallurgical Engineering Bldg., Room 5 
Science Intents Biology Galvin Life Science Center, Auditorium (Room B-278) 
Chemistry Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 343 Earth Sciences Earth Science Bldg., Room 101 Mathematics Computer-Mathematics Bldg., Room 226 
Physics Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 118 Preprofessional Auditorium, Memorial. Library ...... . _ALL FRESHMEN ARE'-RE.QUJR,ri"O\t(;),'A-"FT'E·N'o'-t'HE' 'PRO.GRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMENT OF THEIR INTENT.. 

r 
Not knowing any better 
_____fr. bill taahey 
It seems inevitable now. Robert Redford appears destined to become Hollywood's next superstar, especially with the great success of his recent films, The Way We Were and The Sting, and all the hoopla over The Great Gatsby. Indeed, by the time this column appears, he may have won (undeservedly, most critics would say} an Academy Award. 
I missed T~e ~ay We Were when it first came out; and just got University via patronization by the around to seemg It a week ago. One scene in particular has stayed
Griff bring$ out that the individual formed at the
University's Financial Aid Office. with me. It's the one in the projection room when Barbra Streisand 
moment of conception has rights,
Mr. Cogne seemed to believe that confronts her husband, played by Redford, with the charge that he has 
regardless of the mental or
the financial worries of the been unfaithful to her. She demands to know how he could have done NO humanity minority students are basically economic state of the mother. such a thing, especially with the particular girl with whom he became 
Even in cases of rape or incest, the 
non~xistent. I am a student at­involved. He says to her: "What's wrong between uts has nothing
Dear Editor: innocent child should not be killed
tending Notre Dame with the whatsoever to do with that girl."
I have just finished reading because of the father's sins. So
assistance of Financial Aid. Some reflection on that line might provide a contribution to the
today's issue of the Observer and please be concerned with what is
NOTE! I said assistance! The current campus discussion on student behavior.
an article by Father Griffin (The happening, write to you
actual aid given is not enough to In a very true sense, each of us could paraphrase what Redford
Second Time I say Goodbye) and Congressman at: 
even dream of covering all ex­said: "What's wrong with me has very little if anything, to do withmust marvel at this man's ability penses at du Lac. The actual mora~ mis~e.h~vior." Not .that misbehavior isn't important. It is,
to put into words what so many, I The Senate Office Bldg.
amount of aid given ( i.e., loans, especially 1f 1t IS seen as a s1gn and symptom of a much deeper issue. 
feel, would love to say but cannot. Washington, D.C. 20510 
grants and-or scholarships), The temptation is to get hung up on the symptom and fail to penetrateIn reading the article you shed a depends upon the family income of to what is beneath. Adultery was the symptom of a much deepertear or two for Father and his the individual. As far as I know the problem between Redford and Streisand. Dealing primarily withmother and his thoughts on the 
Office of Financial Aid follows its Thank you, symptoms without ever getting at root causes can promote thepriesthood. I would imagine it was regulations adamently, for I was Jamie Massa transition from one symptom to another, e.g., from adultery to a very tough decision on his part to 
denied a National Defense Student · gambling to alcoholism to drugs, etc., etc.
leave Maine and return to Notre 
Loan because "my parents earned The l::lasic issue forRedfordwas the relationship betwetm himself and Dame. We for the most part are 
too much." I must add that Mr. his wife. Jesus makes a parallel point when he says: "If you love meglad that he made the decision he Cogne was very ill-informed in keep my commandments." I wonder if we take that literally enough. 
did, for in his articles he has believing that the White American "Abortion?" I remember a student saying to me once: "I hear that all the time-'Ifbrought joy and tears to many. 
Student holds a monopoly on you love me keep my commandments'-but most of the time the wayThe main thing he has done though summer jobs to put themselves it's said gives me the impression that what is reullv meant is
is bring Notre Dame and their 
through . This summer will be the ,1. something like this: 'Of course you love God; so why don 't'you get onpriests to a "human" light to third that I will have used to iAbortion! the ball and keep his commandments."' The student continued bymany. As Father said many live saying, "Ifanybody would ever care to listen to my honest reaction tothe life of a Priest but not many get continue , my Notre Dame ·Imagine all the poor babies that, I would tell them: 'I suppose all that might be true if I loved Godthe full benefit that he has through education. killed in the womb. 
This letter is written with the but I don't. As a matter of fact, I don't even know him. So why don't
his pains, doubts and say good­Poor, young souls,
intent of providing information for you begin with the foundation. Help me to know God, ar~td eventually I 
byes., not being able to see, smell, hear, 
those, that persist. in clinging to may truly love him. Then it seems quite reasonable to expect that I
Notre Dame's not a shrine, it is a nor feel. 
stereotypes. I'm male, Black and They will notsee a country corn would want to keep his commandments."'
place. A place filled with many 
a student familiar with the system field, The more I ponder what he said, the more I sense how harmful it is complex people and doings. The 
of Financial Aid at Notre Dame. In to suppose that the commandments are the prime and decisive
football team, basketball team, a crippled veteran,
the future, Mr. Cogne, try ap­element in the Christian religion. "In this is love " St. John wrote
baseball, hockey (God love them, a city slum. 
proaching a problem with facts not "Not that we have loved God, but that he has first' loved us· and w~
although I doubt that He made They will not smell a fresh rose,
generalities. a polluted river, have known his love and believed in the love God has f~r us."
them No. 1) shall we say the sport Christianity rests wholly upon this overwhelming revelation. The
side of the university, the ad­Sincerely, a burning body. 
religious conversion Jesus was so constantly concerned about had
missions, where it all begins, the They will not hear a bluebird sing, 
Terry K. Tanner almost nothing whatsoever to do with morality. But our notion is
Dean of Students, the Student a bomb's explosion, liable to be quite otherwise: when we think of conversion we are in­Government (where I worked for a news broadcast. 
clined to think of it as meaning a change in behavior. It. doesn't mean
many a year), the Student Ac­Nor will they feel a mother's kiss, that at all.
counts and all the others that make sickness and cancer, By concentrating almost totally on duties to be performed and sins this place run, make it a "place" Abort legalization the pain of ignorance. 
to be avoided, many of us have falsified the whole picture of thethat matters to ali of us or we gospel. We've turned an essentially God-eentered religion into a merewould not be here. ·My husband moral system. As a result, Christianity seems first and foremost anand I have followed the sport 
Dear Editor, obligation for man, a collection of duties and demands of behavior
teams all over the country and 2. 
Last night I attended a which need only be minimally performed to enable one to avoid
know first hand that we are awed Abortion?! 
presentation by the Birth-Right eternal damnation or merit the happiness of heaven. This moralizing 
and feared by many. Imagine all the poor babies spirit creates either practicing Catholics who are self satisfied andSo I say, Father Griffin, keep organization which spoke out alive in the world. 
always inclined to feel they have acquired certain valuable rightswriting but never, never give up against abortion, using slides and Poor, young souls, before God, or people tortured by scruples and constantly agonizing the faith or our Notre Dame and information on the types of who can see, smell, hear, and feel. 
abortions available. I was shocked over the many duties they fail to perform.
let's all give a prayer up to Gather See crime and war, 
at the crude methods used, but Real conversion is our response to God's first loving us. In that
Hesburgh, he needs all the help he Smell pollution and disease, faithful response we participate in God's salvation, not by moral effort 
can get. moreso at the reasons given as Hear ignorance and overcrowding, 
"logical" arguments for the Feel pain and suffering. in itself. This ~onver~ion experience can effect a tremdous change in 
Pat Molinaro 
legalization of abortion. I also us. We see thmgs differently, we have a new relationship of love learned that in the next two which we are now willing to struggle to preserve. ' months, Congress will be con­It's for this reason that we can say about our sinning, '"I didn't knowFinding sense sidering the pros and cons of any better." Robert Redford sinned in that movie because he didn't abortion-leggally and religiously­3. know any better-he didn't know his wife any better than he did. If he
Abortion?! 
before voting on the Abortion Bill. Abolish it we must. had known her better (in the sense of "to know" as mE:aning a deep,in financial aid I'm hoping that many of the But let us wait, personal relationship of love), he quite likely would haV4! loved her too students from ND and SMC will much to risk hurting their relationship through infideliity. 
Dear Sir, wait until we can bring the 
speak up now, while the Bill is still When we see people sinning, our tendency is to say to them over and 
In response to a letter written by children 
pending, and write to their over again, "Stop sinning." We really should say, "Start loving." So
Joseph F. Cogne and printed in the into a world worthy of them. 
Congressman to express their much attention seems to be placed on prohibition; we would do well to
March 22nd issue of the Observer, I Protect the innocent unborn,
feelings about legalized abortion. concentrate more on promotion-doing everything we can (all of us) to 
must say that it's incredible that protect them from the world. 
It makes me, for one, very sad to promote those rich experiences that lead to the kind of conversion that 
there are people in the Notre Dame They are too good for it! 
think we've come this close to the
community that believe that Black 
legalizing of such a brutalizing
students, or minority students in 
type of murder. We must realize
general. are attending the 
CJJoQ_llesJ1ua_ 
Y&AH. 

• lXl YOfJ SHfSREAUY j R£AUZ& JOANI&'s 'MKIN6 1HI5 : 577/..l. IN BcP JI/Atr/NG tiST 
7lJPAY?.. 81/SIN&ss I 8AOL.Y. 
\ 
I 

~---------------­
IGl/cSS 5116 JVST ISN'T 
7H6 KINO OF 
PCRSON «<HO CAN 
7lJt&RAT~ A 
IIOtP/N6 PA7TtRN. 
\ 
Mar. '74 

11AYBE I IVCU,IVAITA SHOt/U? mtl14/Nf!T!iS_· GO TALK ZONI<£R.'s 7lJ HeR... TAU<ING
I WITH HER. 
NOW. 

provides a cause, a love we are willing to preserve. In other words, resisting the temptation to spin our wheels so much 
T. F. s. Jr. on shymhptoms, co.uldhmteban we'd spend a lot more time trying to help 
eac ot er.grow m t a asic knowledge (of God, self, and others), so necessary m our mutual efforts to mature beyond betrayals. 
fJ; GiJ14«~­
the observer 
.C/ttl~ ._TOAN/~ A 600/) ~AI< Wit/... G~T YOt/1<: 
MIN{) OFF 
THINGS. '-.... 

Nite Editor: Rick Blower Ass't Nite Editor: Dean Janke Day Editors: Val· Zurblls George. of the jungle Copy Readers: Pat Hanifin Typists: Tom Modglin, Barb Haug, Bill Menk, John Flannigan Compugraphlc: Bob Steinmetz Controller of the Night: Bill Nichol:~ Pictures: Albert D'Antonio 
1Sports: Delaney and Johnnie Editorials: and friends 
Wednesday, April 11, 1974 
5
the observer 

an utter skeptic who believes 
by thomas j. eichler 
Variety has been the theme of Robert Ker·Jy's life. During his first forty years, he has had more unusual experiences than most people have in a lifetime. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1972, but that was not his first connection with the university. 
"I came to Notre Dme in 1951. Actually, I wanted to go to Harvard. My father told me that I could go to college anywhere that I desired, but Notre Dame was the only one for which he would pay." Kerby's days at 
the University reflect the discipline of that 
time. A strict code of behavior was enforced 
which included the well-known ban on alcohol. "It wasn't really too bad," recalls 
Kerby. "My work was enjoyable, and I was 
interested in Air Force ROTC (AFROTC), and the possibility of a career in the Air 
Force." In Kerby was stricken with the
1953, 

religious disillusion which often ac­companies the college experience. "I went 
to a pep rally," he remembers, "for the 
SMU football game. The theme was 'God is on our side; beat the Protestants. ' I couldn't believe it. That's when I quit going to church and began the long process of finding out what faith was all about. It was also my last pep rally., 
However, it wasn't an entirely unhappy 
year. Kerby met Mary Corbett, an SMC 
fth
student whose parents were bo pro essors. 
He proposed to her in 1954• in his junior 
year. By this time, he was the cadet com­
mander of his AFROTC unit and thinking 
uncommon 
glimpses" 
./ 

France and Japan, and in a national in­stallation in Tennessee. In 1960, he was 
flying in Laos, carrying out classified 
operations. Following the publication of the 
report ontheTaylor-Rostow visit to Vietnam in November, 1961, the federal government
judged that it was necessary to send military advisors to Vietnam. Kerby was sent in before the advisors to set up a depot
to receive them. His experience in air 
transport methods made him a valuable 
asset in the operation. 

Kerby began to wonder about in­volvement there. "I'll never forget this as long as I live. We were sitting in the Majestic Hotel in Saigon when two South Vietnamese planes flew over and bombed the presidential palace. I was beginning to realize that we didn't know what the hell 
we were doing there."

Shortly after the incident, Kerby returned to this country where he continued in his capacity as an Operations Officer. He 
about his future. Upon graduation, he . assisted in the planning of an invasion of 
decided to remain at Notre Dame for an additional year, earning his master's degree in United States history and waiting to wed Miss Corbett. Yet, the marriage had to be delayed. "In late 1956 and early 1957, I was in flying school. First, I was in Missouri 
for single-engine instruction. Then, I was packed off to multi-engine school in 
Oklahoma. Mary and I were finally
married in May, 1957, in theLadyChapel of Sacred Heart Church on a three-day passfrom Oklahoma." 
Kerby speicalized in air lift operations and transports while in the service. He served as a transport pilot for the Air Force in Cuba during the missile crisis, an assault never launched. He also par­ticipated in a plan to invade Haiti, which, once again, was never to occur. He was also invovled in a campaign known as Operation Rapid Roads which concerned the con­
troversy over the entrance of James 
Meredith to the University of Mississippi. 
"By this time, my belief in the military
d

establishment was weakening. I ha a hand in planningOperation Quickstep which would have entailed dropping paratroopers over 
Washington during Martin Luther King's march in August, 1963. I ended up resigning from the Air Force on June 10, 1963. I realized that I was a pacifist in the wrong business." Kerby went on to march in the demonstration. 
With his service career behind him, Kerby enrolled in Columbia University's grad school in late 1963, and started teaching there in 1966. Columbia was the eastern seat of student unrest during the time that he was there. "In 1967, there was an anti­ROTC riot at the University. I can remember standing in front of Hamilton Hall between two mobs of people, each dying to get at the others' throats. That was one of the 'stupider' things that I've done in my life." 
Does the name Mark Rudd sound familiar? Rudd was the leader of the student rebels at Columbia. "Mr. Rudd was one of my students at the time. He was one of those to whom I could never quite get through." On two occassions, in 1968 and in 1972, Kerby's office was sacked bydissitlents for no apparent reason. "They left my books undisturbed but took four cassettes of music. What the hell were they going to do 
' with four tapes of Byzantine ecclesiastical music ?" He remembers that the second semester at Columbia was unique. "The university is a very fragile and delicate thing. Every spring semester between 1968 and 1972 it fell apart. I forgot how to give final exams." 


When he began teaching and working on his doctorate, he also began to study for the priesthood in the Eastern Church.-He earned his PhD in 1969, in 19th century United States history. His religious studies culminated in 1970 when he was ordained in Cairo by the Patriarch of Antioch, Maximos V Haki. "I fell in love with the way in which the Byzantines do things. It seemed to me a 'saner' church, more familiar and more congenial. I continued to teach at Columbia and worked in a small parish in New Jer­sey. I also acted as an assistant chaplin at the University." 
By 1972, Professor Kerby had had enough of Columbia. As he saw it, he needed a more agreeable place in which to teach. He retunred to Notre Dame in the fall of that year, and joined the history department. "I sort of like Notre Dame. When I was at Columbia, the students regarded me as an archconservative. Out here, people seem to think that I'm a flaming liberal. I don't think that I've changed. Peculiar." 
Kerby went on to say that Notre Dame should be more open, not only in terms of rules. "There's a fair amount of evidence that many people cannot cope with coeds. Coeducation must fight the last two generations of Notre Dame; the past and the present constituencies must be satisfied. I would like to see things move faster than presently." · 
Kerby did not say whether he'll remain at Notre Dame. "It's too early to tell." Yet he does have plans for his time here. "As much as I'm committed tom·· work, I'd like to run for the faculty Senate, if someone would just t~ke the time to tell me how to go about it. The faculty is the core of the University. I'd like to work towards actlieving possibilities. and the mechanism of a Senate cold be a good way to pursue this goal."
Professor Robert Kerbvy has his hands full with a family to raise, classes to teach, and his priestly duties at St. John of Damascus mission in South Bend. Yet, for a man with such a complex life, his summary outlook is succinct and appropriate: "I'm an utter skeptic who believes that Jesus Christ is coming again." 
a glimpse into the real jazz age I 
by j.r. baker I I j
The Great Gatsby is not just another love 
money 
which supports her monotonous loud and brash, proud of his money and story, nor another nostalgia film. Although existence. what it can do. Ithe plot centers around the romance of Jay Farrow is admirable as Daisy-the woman In other major roles are Karen Black as Gatsby and Daisy Buchanan, the movie is with no real sense of herself beyond the Myrtle, Buchanan's mistress and Scott more than the idyllic but unhappy fate of glitter of jewels and the luxury of money. Wilson, Myrtle's vindictive husband. Their 
l
two lovers. Taken from F. Scott Fit­She is just as superb in showing Daisy's stark poverty and desperate actions con­
i l
zgerald's classic novel about the 20's, it shallowness when, after Gatsby's fate is trast sharply with the lives of the rich: a is more than an extravagant recreation of played out,she blithely bids Nick farewell, contrast which shows the .hollowness of life. America during the Jazz Age. It is a rare ignoring the tragedy she has caused. Technically, the film is sound, if ex­look into the heart of America. Sam Waterson narrates the film as Nick. travagant. Itis full of minute touches which The Great Gatsby, often held to be Fit­He is the only character who is not caught. add credence to the film's realism. For 
~ 
zgerald's best novel, exposes not only the up in the ceaseless world of escape. Lois instance, through most of the film, even the mad exuberance of America between the Chiles plays Jordan Baker, the sensuous rich perspire, suggesting that even they two great wars, but also a sense of the beauty and golf pro. Chiles brings out all of cannot escape everything. The party scenes l severe insecurity of the period to which Jordan's bored restlessness that lies at Gatsby's mansion tend to be drawn out, money brought a temporary, if not total beneath her haughty facade. Tom but this is perhaps done purposely to point release from aimless boredom. In the film Buchanan, played by Bruce Dern, is the out the tedium of such affairs. The film also version of this classic, director Jack Clayton most contemptible figure in the story. He is has excellent close-ups of the leading actors catches both the excesses and the sen­which give a subtle hint of the real natures selessness Fitzgerald wrote about. of the characters. 
Robert Redford and Mia Farrow head a Producer David Merrick spared no ex­cast that ranges from big name talents in pense in making this elaborate film. No less the leading roles to glamorous society than 2,000 costumes were used. A million names as extras during the lavish party dollars in jewels, which were kept under sequences. constant guard, were lent by Cartier, the 
Redford is Jay Gatsby, for whom money handling \Y~i1~ · ·a~ ·is a jewelers. All of the old cars including is the opportunity to woo his elusive dream, belie e and sympathetic character Gatsby's yellow Rolls Royce are authentic Daisy Buchanan. Redford does not appear whether standing alone on his dock gazing borrowed from residents of Newport, Rhode on the screen until the film is well begun, wistfully across the bay or as the Island where much of the filming was done. much like Gatsby who does not attend his enamoured beau at last possessing his love. Details in the film are scrupulous from the own parties. In a New York hotel, Gatsby hoping to gas pumps to the license plates to a Red 
Gatsby, at first, is an elusive character force Daisy to leave Tom urges her to tell National Biscuit cake holder. whom everyone speaks of speculatively. Buchanan that she has never loved him. The Great Gats by which is showing at the Gradually he is seen as a man driven by a Redford assumes without hesitation the Town and Country Theater, is a haunting film relentless desire for Daisy. His ac­remarkable energy and concentration of of tragedy that even wealth and power cumulated wealth allows him a house across will Gatsby has in pursuing Daisy. cannot always prevent. It is an uncommon the bay from flickering green light on the Itis during this scene that Mia Farrow as film in that it has a unique sense of what Buchanan's dock. Gatsby, hoping that Daisy is perhaps at her best. Here she is Fitzgerald bad to say about the American Daisy will appear, gives lavish but absurd seen not as a restless beauty of the era, but Dream and the twenties. The crazy parties, parties attended by strangers. rather a frightened girl who has never the endless champagne, the glitter of 
Redford, as Gatsby, makes an easy grown up. She wants desperately to sequins, the gay music, the recklessness, transition between the estranged observer abandon herself on Gatsby's love, but is the desperation, the weariness, the tragedy­at his own parties, and the passionate lover afraid to leave the security of her husband's -it is all there. 
the observer Wednesday, April 17, 1974
6 

I was pretty low on the housing lottery and I wanted to know when the results will be released so I'D know whether or not to make arrangements for moving off campus. 
I checked the Student Affairs office and they said that everyone who had ~ed their room contracts in as of 5:00p.m_. on April15 is guaranteed a room in the same hall they are living in now. 
What time will the touch footbaU championship be held and what are the times for the Irish Wake? 
The touch Football Championship will take place at 3:30 on Saturday behind Stepan Center. The Irish Wake will be from 10:00 to the wee hour of 1:00 a.m. 
Are Frank Zappa and the Mothers of Invention going to give a concert here? 
Frank Zappa will give a concert here on May 12 at 7:30. Tickets have already gone on sale-, they are for !3.50, $4.50 and $5.50' 
When is Mother's Day? 
Mother's Day is Sunday May 12. 

F01zr free symposiums scheduled at C.C.E. 
s 
SATURDAY, APRIL .20 AT 7:30P.M. 
GOOD BLEACHER AND BACKSTAGE SEATS ARE STILL AVAILABLE. 


Student Union presents 

LEON RUSSELL at the ACiC 
Thursday, May 2 at 8:00 
Tickets are $6.00 and $4.00 on sale TOMORROW at the ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office (9:00a.m. at both places). 
A Conference on "Jung and Education: Myth and Ritual" will be presented this weekend beginning on Friday at 2:00 p.m. All students are invited to par­ticipate free of charge and registration will begin at 12:30 

I 
p.m. Friday at the Center for Continuing Education. All scheduled Conference events will take place in the C.C.E. 
The Conference is sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters, 

and has been planned by Dean Frederick Crosson, Thomas Kapacinskas, Morton Kelsey and John Meany, all of whom will be speakers. Two other Notre Dame professors, John Dunne and Paul Rathburn, will speak along with Jungian psychologists and theorists from around the country. 
According to Paul Rathburn, the first symposium of the conference, 
which will begin at 2:00 p.m. on Friday, combines Jungian psychology and Shakespeare with the use of film as a learning medium. Professors Meany and Rathburn, who are currently coauthors of a book to be entitled The Psychology of Shakespeare will speak and the film of A Mid­summer Night's Dream will be shown. John Dunne's topic is 
...,"":··· 


IS SPONSORING A 
.-..:--~~ 

Book Drive 
FOR PRISONERS IN STATE PRISONS Bring any contributions to the MECHA 
Office--basement of LaFortune from 3-Spm Wed-Fri 
"What Kind of Story are We In?" 
And he is schedule to speak at 8:00 
p.m. Friday following the showing of the film "Face to Face: The Story of C.G. Jung" at 6:00 p.m. 
The third symposium, to be held on Saturday at 2:00 p.m., is en­titled "The American Indian: Ritual Modes of Education." ' The music, dance and symbolism of the Amerindian peyote culture (among others) will be discussed, and on Saturday at 8:00p.m. Guest speakers John Laney and Bruce Jewell will give a demonstration of the ceremonial equipment and music of the peyote culture. Ac­cording to Laney and Jewell the "single most influential religious force among the American In­dians." 
The conference will close with a colloquium at .1:30 p.m. on Sunday after a morning symposium on "Jungian Psychology and Education." The colloquium will be a discussion including all conference speakers in which audience participation will be welcomed. Pamphlets including the · schedule of events and descriptions of the speakers are available at the reception desk of the C.C.E. 
Mr. Francis J. O'Malley, professor of English, is listed in critical condition in the intensive care unit of St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. 
Prof. O'Malley was admitted to the hospital at about 3 p.m. Easter Sunday after he fell while entering Lyons Hall where he resides. 
Fr. Leon Mertensotto, rector of Lyons Hall, reports that two students came to Prof. O'Malley's aid at about 1 p.m. and helped him to his room. They alerted Fr. Mertensotto who arranged to have Mr. O'Malley taken by ambulance to hospital. . 
Only Mr. O'Malley's immediate family is permitted to visit him while he is in intensive care. Friends are discouraged from sending flowers, but mail may be sent to the intensive care unit of St. 
Joseph's Hospital, 811 E. 
Madison St., South Bend. -O'Malley has been on the Notre Dame faculty since 1933 and has been a professor since 1945. 
He has influenced many Notre Dame students to pursue careers in writing. Among Prof. O'Malley's former students was Mr. Edwin O'Connor, author of The Last Hurrah, and The Edge of Sadness. The latter book won a Pulitzer Prize for Mr. O'Connor in 1962. 
Mr. O'Malley is teaching a reduced course load this semester, offering two sections of freshman seminar which meet in the chapel of Lyons Hall. He usually teaches philosophy of literature and modern Catholic writers in the department of English. 
~ ------~-------­
Wednesday, April 17, 1974 the observer 
Food ecology program explained 
Chris O'Brien Yesterday, the committee on plained the poster campaign at­and pocket mirrors. One college start the program without them. Staff Reporter food ecology from Coca-Cola, tempting to stop food waste. even chose food ecology queens we just couldn't wait. Notre Dame 
The University Food Services' new food ecology program is essential to keep prices down according to Food Services Director Edmund Price. 
The Food Ecology Program was initiated by Coca-Cola and some of the Big Ten universiteies to curb the phenomenal waste of food at their dining halls. 
headed by Mr. Allan Connally, held a meeting in the Faculty Dining Room in which they outlined the program and cited numerous colleges at which their program had taken effect and was suc­ceeding in eliminating food waste. 
"Any idea is only good if it is communicated and shared by others." said Connally as he ex-Connally continued by saying, "We must all realize that wasted food does no good, it only costs money." 
The first part of the program (which Notre Dame has already startedl consists of basic theme posters and incentive awards for students. Some of the incentive awards include coupons for free Cokes, free Tiffany style glasses, program_ 
However during all of this other things are taking place. Things such as the servers wearing little buttons with the slogan "If you 
'Gentle Thursday' to open An 
Tostal vvith full slate of events 
(Continued from page 2) 
As a special added attraction, beautiful girls will be on hand (at St. Mary's, handsome gentlemen) to distribute colorful An Tostal balloons. 
On state at 1:45 p.m. (right in front of Alumni Hall) numerous uninhibited inhabitants of this institution will perform the craziest antics ever devised as they battlle Father Time in the debuting "Beat the Clock" contest. 
Then, at 2:30, Art Ferranti will pit 32 trivial minds against each other in the intercollegiate quiz, The An Tostal Trivia Bowl. 16 Fighting Irish intellects attempt to outguess 16 belles of St. Mary's as Art throws a volley of tricky questions and puzzlements about movies, television, songs, and recent Notre Dame sports. 
Says Ferranti, "St. Mary's has never won the Trivia Bowl in the event's long and fabled history. I hereby challenge the ladies to wrest the title away from Notre Dame." 
So, girls that are game may accept Art's challenge by calling him at 8539. 
Next, the winner of tonight's 
playoff between Beer Farley and 
the Hops and the St. Mary's varsity 
(both all-girl teams) will engage in 
a friendly game of basketball with 
some of Notre Dame's finest 
hoopsters. Thrill to this athletic 
competition behind the Bookstore 
at 4:00p.m. 
The semi-finals of the famed 
Bookstore Basketball Tourney will 
follow on the same courts. Times 
and teams will be released 
tomorrow. 
Thursday evening the whirlwind 
of An Tostal activity shifts to the 
North Quad. Throughout the night, 
or at least till 10 o'clock, the Mark 
Bloom Band will entertain the 
milling throngs of merrymakers. 
The An Tostal Committee hereby 
challenges students of architecture 
and engineering to match their 
talents (or should that be "prove 
they have any" in the Can Stacking Contest at 7:00p.m. The current record stack of 92 cans high was established several years ago by sophomore arkies and since then the arkies have rested on their laurels and the engineers have not been able to mount any serious assault on the record. 

An Tostal Law goes into effect at 
7:30. The law states that "anyone on the North Quad that evening may be arrested, convicted and incarcerated for only a quarter and an accusation." Look for the sheriffs in the cowboy hats and obtain that much needed revenge on your roommates, friends and enemies. 
The pie-throwing booth opens at eight, and it is reminscent of village stocks in that certain convicts will be the "cannon fodder" for their pie-throwing friends. 
Campus celebrities take a few involuntary swims during their stints in the Dunking Booth for business when the clock strikes eight. 
Perhaps even Ronnie Howard will be "at the hop" when student "kangaroos" compete in the oft­times amusing Burlap Sack Race. 
Another all-new event debuts at 
9: 15 as amateur "Little Sure Shots" attempt to shoot out candle flames with water pistols. 
Accuracy and a soft touch count in the "Can do," a softball-throw­type event running concurrently 
iLooking for a place to get 
1away on Lake Michigan. For rent Lodge and cabins during April and-or May. Only 30 min. from cam­pus: Gintaras resort 15860 Lake Shore Rd. Union Pier Mich. Te. 616-469­3298 or 312-737-4.515 
PITT CLUB BANQUET 
7 P.M. FRI APRIL 19th (FRIVOLOUS FRIDAY) AT MORRIS INN BLUE & GOLD ROOM (DOWNSTAIRS) 
STEAK DINNER SHORT FILMS RUMOR HAS IT TERRY HANRATTY WILL BE 
BACK  TO  STREAK THE  EVENT  
$3.00  MEMBERS  $4.00  NON-MEMBERS &  
GUESTS  

RESERVATIONS MUST BE MADE BY TUES., APRIL 16th CALL: BOB BRENNAN 2127 JOHN ROSELLE 1786 
EVERYONE INVITED 
must conserve food to keep prices down because of our student bodv and because of our policy of ­
·unlimited seconds." Price is optomistic about the program and says, "Reduction of waste is already obvious just from looking at the increasing number of trays which are returned empty." 
Connally, as an example of the success of the program, cited Indiana University which had 33 per cent less food waste after the first month of the program and said, "If that trend continues throughout the year, it could save Indiana University about 
$230,000!, 

One Big Ten newspaper called the program "excellent" because "it provided something of great 
concern to the administration­saving money." 
Mr. Connally ended the meeting by saying, "Food waste is a palling, but there are remedies." 
r­
rrt,~~ 
, w -~-~ 
ATTENTION 
ALL 

~RADUATING 
STUDENTS 

Measurements will be taken for 
CAPS 
and 
GOWNS 
Thursday 
April 25 
and Friday 
April 26 
between 
9:00-4:00 
at the 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
while Ohfo State's president helped with the publicity of the program by posing for a picture beside one of the posters. 
The second part of the program presents more posters and little placecards to be put on butter and milk dispensers reminding students to take only as much as they will and can eat. A third set of posters makes up the end ofthe 
want less, tell me." There is also a food ecology newsletter that ac­with the just-mentioned Fireman's companies the program and littleBooth. 
quizzes on food and other items inFinally, An Tostal 's most which the winners also receivespectacular sheduled event. Grace prizes.
Tower proudly announces a Edmund T. Price, Director ofskyrocket display will delight all .Food Services at Notre Dame,revelers who look skyward at commented, "We wanted this10:00 p.m. The launching point will committee to come, but we had tobe behind Stepan Center. 
------------------------------, 
GRADUATING-­WHAT THEN? 

PEACE CORPS--VISTA have openings for August availability. 
Seniors contact representatives in library lobby April 18th & 19th 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
PERSONALS 

Tot_c. Still waters run deep. Do yours? B.A.G. 
Gerry: Happy Birthday a day late Love: the Pontiff, Agony, the llletitimate Son, Anti Christ and All the Apostolic Church. 
FOR SALE 

Yamaha Folk Guitar {FG-130) and Vinyl case. $98.50. Ravinder 8829 
2 Nylon tires . E78-14, $12 each. Call Joe 232·3886. 
Pioneer SX-626 receiver. 11 months old, in excellant con­dition and still under warrantee. $200.00 Jim 1487. 
FINALLY!! Kerovac Fiography in Paperback_ Good reading. Now at Pandora's Books. 
4 Beach Boys tlx tor sale {together> padded seats. 55.50 each. Call 233-3945 between 12 and 1 a.m. 
2 Beach Boys tix. Sec. 6 Call 234-7036. 
NOTICES 

CHEAPEST WAY TO TRAVEL! SCOOTER Britain­Europe !33 a week. Lambretta­seats two. Also Worldwide Overland Camping and losest air fares. Trail Blazers TOLL FREE 800-223-5586. 
Experienced typist will do : term papers, manuscripts, etc. ca 11 233-5332. 
Typing -Term papers, thesis, dissertations. Professionally done with electric typewriter, carbon ribbon. Reasonable Call 233-6638. 
G.S.U. Meting, Friday April 19. 12 Noon. 127 N.S.H. 
WANTED 

HELPWANTED! OVERSEAS JOBS Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa. Students all professions and occupation $700 to $3000 monthly. Ex­penses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free information. TRANS WORLD RESEARCH CO. Dept. F3 P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
Need used Piano will pay ! ! . Call Jim 1171. 
$ 

Riders Needed: to Chicago Friday April 19 leaving after 
11:30 a.m. Call Paul 7937. 
Person to work 30+ Hours. alternate publications; distribution. Low $. Good tella workers. Call 232-8500 after 5 P.M. 
Want two Beach Boy Tickets. Call 3240. 
Ride needed from Kent, Ohio to Notre Dame Friday April 19 Call Bob at 1248. 
Need riders West 180 to Iowa City Friday. April 19. Call Bill 1177. 
Need ride to Flint Mich. April 19 Call 5428. 
LOST 

LOST: Blue parka, winter coat. begind Bookstore, Sunday April. 7. Call Rick 3308. 
FOR RENT 

Notre Dame Apartment for rent for '74 school year. Call 
Ed. 3366. 

Students want to tent next years house for summer. 5 bedrooms. close to campus. Call 5703, 4410, or 1312. 
.... 
----~~~--------~---­
.. 
the observer Wednesday, April 17, 1974 
Strong pitching helps ND go 4-2 
by Pete McHugh Bearcats on the base paths for his 
Coming off an embarrassing 7-1 second victory of the season. doubleheader defeat against Bradely 7, Notre Dame 1 Bradley, the Notre Dame baseball That the Irish bus nearly never team salvaged its Easter road trip made it to bucolic Peoria, Dlinois Monday in Indianapolis by might have foreshadowed things sweeping Butler s-o and 5-2 behind to come for Jake Kline's players. three-hitters by Mark Pittman and Arriving at the Bradley field only Bob Stratta. ten minutes before gametime, 
The Irish moundsmen, following Notre Dame's Mitch Stoltz war­the 24-run, 27-hit debacle in Peoria, med up quickly but obviously not showed no signs of shell-shock as enough as the Braves proceeded to they allowed only one-extra base jump on the sophomore hurler for hit in the two complete games. six runs and eight hits in four and The victories , coupled with two-thirds innings. Irish hits were another twin killing last Wed­few and far between with Hansen nesday in Cincinnati, upped Coach driving in the only run in the top of Jake Kline's Irish record to 8-12 this the seventh. Bradley's Rick season and 5-5 since returning Buckner went 3-3 with a grand­from their spring trip. The game­slam homer in thefifth inning. by-game rundown: Bradley 17, Notre Dame 1 
Notre Dame 6, Cincinnati 5 The Braves could do no wrong in 
Following a Tuesday rainout the second game,creaming a host against Xavier, the Irish of Notre uame pitchers for 17 hits responded to some good weather including two home runs. Starter by jumping to a s-o lead, but Kevin Fanning and freshman Jim needed Pete Coleman's game­Sholl took the brunt of Bradley's winning single in the· fifth inning to attack, giving up 13 runs between shed the pesky Bearcats. Notre them. The Irish fielding was less Dame took advantage of their than impressive with five errors, host's hospitality early by scoring four by third baseman Tom three runs in the second inning on Hansen. Hansen again accounted singles by Tom Hansen, Ken for Notre Dame's lone tally with a Schuster and Coleman along with second-inning homerun. three timely Cincinnati errors. Notre Dame 5, Butler 1 Senior right fielder Pete Clemens Bob Stratta turned in his second and two runs in the first inning padded the margin in the third consecutive complete-game vic­before blanking the Bulldogs for with a two-run blast over the 365-ft. tory and restored some respec­the final six frames. The Irish tied 
Buggers sw-eep ]C
sign in right field. tability to the abused Irish staff. the game in the second inning 
In the fourth inning, the Bear­Stratta allowed only three hits and when a fielder's choice by Tom cats capitalized on senior struck out six to even his record at Miller drove in Jim Smith and a by Bob Kissel refused to tell us the time left after righthander Mark Pittman's 3-3 for the year. Notre Dame relied single by Dick Nussbaum scored we has just scored near the end of
Perhaps the Notre Dame rugby
control problems and Irish fielding on its speed and the generosity of Miller. the game."
squad should change their name to
lapses to tie the score before the Bulldogs for five unearned In the third inning, Notre Dame The Irish scored first after a
the Irish mud squad. Virtually
Coleman's clutch single. runs. A typical Irish rally in the again relied on Butler's misuse for every game the Irish 'mudders' prolonged five minute struggleSophomore Marty Serena stifled third started off with a single by the lead. Des~nated hitter Mike 
have played this spring, from the inside the John Carroll ten-yard
Cincinnati on two hits the final Schuster who was replaced by O'Neill put the Irish in front by dales or the plains of line. Mike Dacey went five yards
Ireland to

three inning for the win. pinchrunner Ron Goodman. scoring on two errors after for the try after he picked up the
Ohio, has been affected by the grey 
Notre Dame 4, Cincinnati 3 Goodman was then sacrificed to reaching base on a fielder's choice. loose ball from the serum.
goop. This 'mudluscious' ex­
Junior First Baseman Mark Sch­second, stole third and came home Hansen scored in a similar faghion After the Irish score, at about
perience helped the Irish ruggers
mitz supplied all the offense in the on a wild pitch. Pete Clemens after a single in the sixth inning five minutes left in the game, John 
gain an important sweep of the
nightcap, singling home Dick followed with a walk, stol·e second and O'Neill tripled home Schmitz Bluestreaks from John Carroll Carroll mounted their own longNussbaum in the first inning and and raced home on two Butler in the seventh insurance run. University. drive, battling the Notre Dame towering a three-run homer in the errors. Notre Dame returns to the This series was important to forwards for a good ten minutes. third. The Irish were limited to Notre Dame 5, Butler 2 friendly confines of Cartier Field The Bluestreaks scored their only
both clubs. For the Bluestreaks,
four hits for the game while Cin­Senior Mark Pittman (Avon, this afternoon 'for a doubleheader four points when a kick form the
the games against Notre Dame are
cinnati touched winner Bob Stratta Massachusetts) turned in Notre against the Wisconsin Badgers. ND backfield was blocked and
the key to the success of their
for ten safteties. The sophomore Dame's finest pitching per­The opener begins at 1:00 p.m. fallen upon for the try.
season. Notre Dame are the key to
righhander from Olympia Fields, formance this season for his first with Fanning and either Sholl or "It seemed that the referee
the success of their season. Notre
Illionois stranded numerous victory of the year. Pittman Stoltz expected to start Dame badly needed a win to wasn't going to end the game until recover from their sloppy loss to John Carroll scored," added four­Ohio State last week. 
year veteran O'Connell "Both The Irish "A" squad defeated teams weren't satisfied with a tie,
Regionals for Bookstore 
the John Carroll "A" team 8-4 in so we agreed to a 10-minute sud­sudden death overtime, "a game den-death over-time period." By BiD Delaney played in a quagmire of mud, snow John Carroll kicked off to the 
heroics), and held it for the vic-harassed Townsend and Company Irish in the overtime. Notre Dame 
and water, which slowed both
The Regionals of the 1974 tory. for thwwin. teams," according to serum for­got the ball up and kicked it deep Bookstore Basketball Tournament By virtue of their wins, Pater-ward Ed O'Connell. into the Bluestreaks' territory. 
got underway Tuesday, and by In the other exciting contest, no's TILCS will battle ALLOCCO's The Golden Domers pushed and
The first half ended in aevening's end, the field of 16 teams Frank Allocco's 11 points plus the CLUB 31 II tonight behind the scoreless tie, as both teams had waded through the mud for a mere were narrowed down to eight for outstanding play of Steve Niehaus 1 bookstore at 6:15. Meconi is cQnsiderable trouble adjusting to minute when Joe Hafner touched 
the Regional Finals today, and Mike Bonnifer, proved too hoping for a set of bleachers to thefourinches of standing water. the ball down for the winning try.beginning at 4 p.m. Under the much for Willie Townsend and his accommodate the crowds, so there a good feeling to win
The Irish had many scoring drives, "It was 
direction of Tournament Director TEREX team, as CLUB 31 will be room for any one and after our tough loss to Ohio State, ·•
but they could not cross into
Vince Meconi, the Classic had been defeated TEREX 21-15. Allocco, everyone to witness the regional commented O'Connell, "especially
paydirt.

previously blessed with fine who only missed two shots the final round of competition on the because it was so close."
"The secondhali seemed awful
weather, and Tuesday proved to be entire game, along with Bonnifer road to the championship of the The Notre Dame "B" squad
long to both squads," said 
no exception, with a warm and <who was again this year deadly 1974 Bookstore Basketball Tour­defeated th Bluestreaks' "B" unit
O'Connell. "The referree, a for­from the outside) constantly nament.
windless day. In what some mer Bluestreak rugby coach, 18-4. Chris Patterson started the regarded as some of the greatest Irish offense by touching the ball display of backyard football, eight down in the John Carroll endzone. teams outslugged their opponents Sean McDonald, Mike Hallman, to gain entry into the Regional and John Froman each scored a
Golf excellence continues
Finals, the last step before the try for ND. John Mcintyre con­final round. verted on one kick for two points. 
"Many of the games have by Bill Delaney college team. I'm really proud of Dame golf team was no fluke. "The mud equalized both disintegrated into street brawls, the way my kids played, and their "Our peers have finally realized teams," remarked Larry Casey, but that's just the way the Tour­The Notre Dame golfers con­victories reflect their hard work that we are to be reckoned with," "but out greater experience nament is played," noted Meconi. tinued their fine play over the and desire." said O'Sullivan. "We beat many showed during the game. We "I really think that the refs have Easter Break with dual-match teams that are considered cornered better and followed the done an admiral job under the victories over Western Michigan Co-Captain Jeff Burda and Paul powerhouses in collegiate golf, and play better, giving us good scoring circumstancesl, and I just wish the and Loyola, and a third place finish Koprowski sparked the Irish with our results tend to say that we will chances." · players would realize that. All in out of 15 schools in the Indianapolis The Irish "C" team also showed
scores of 73 and 71 respectively be stronger in the future." 
all, I think everybody has had a Intercollegiate Golf Invitational, versus Loyola last Wednesday, their greater game experience as good time, and that really is our played at the Coffin Golf Course in they blanked the John Carroll "C"
with Notre Dame defeating Loyola Paul Betz, Jim Culveyhouse, and 
goal." Indianapolis. team 18-0.
rather handily 381-443 for the team. Mike Kistner were the low men forCrowds of upwards to 100 wat­On Monday, Burda and sophomore the Irish, with 36-holetotals of 148,
ched the eight games of the "I really think the key to our An Tostal Girls
Jim Culveyhouse led the Irish with 150 and 150. An added highilight ofRegionals, which included two of great success this year has been 76 and 77 respecitvely against the tournament was the fact that Beer Farley and Hops, wir1nersthe most exciting contests ever the increased confidence we've Western Michigan, playing in 33 three of the top eight golfers at the of the Notre Dame intramuralplayed. Billy Paterno and Dave gained with each match," noted degree weather and a wind with 18-hole mark were Notre Dame women's basketball title, will meet Kelly led the TILCS over the Coach Noel O'Sullivan. "The gusts up to 35 m.p.h. The team duffers Kistner, Betz, and St. Mary's varsity squad at 9 p.m. 
MOONMEN 21-17, in a game which victory over Western Michigan 
collectively trimmed Western Culveyhouse. tonight in Gym 1 of the ACC. Thedisplayed a flair for agressiveness was the most satisfying of the Michigan 400-421. winner of this game will meet thethree dual-meets we've played so
and hustle throughout it. The Next Monday, the Irish travel to Notre Dame basketball team in the 
TILCS grabbed an early lead (due far-it proved we can play and The third-place finish in the Northern Dlinois to compete in the annual An Tostal game onThurs­to Paterno and Billy Sahm's hold our own against any top notch invitational proved that the Notre Northern Dlinois Invitational. 
day afternoon. 





