OD The Inside 
Student Affairs Supplement ...pages 5-8 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 105' Thursday, April 4, 1974 

What follows rape incidents? 
Daughter stuns parents 

Hearst joins SLA 
by Richard Litfin 

SAN FRANCISCO (UPD--Patricia Hearst said in a stunning tape-recorded broadcast Wednesday that she had joined the Symbionese Liberation Army and had chosen to remain with the terrorist band that kidnaped her 58 days ago. 
The 20-year-old girl's mother, Catherin Hearst, identified the voice as that of her daughter. 
The tape recording was sent to radio station KPFA in Berkeley, accompanied by a photograph of Patricia standing in front of the seven-headed Cobra flag of the SLA, carrying a machine gun. 
William Coblentz, an attorney and close associate of Randolph Hearst, Patricia's father, identified the picture as that of the abducted girl. At the Hearst home in suburban Hillsborough Patricia's sister, Anne, 18, said she didn't believe the broadcast. 
"I know Patty far too well to think she'd come around like that. I don't believe it. She only knows one side of the story--she doesn't know the whole thing. She might have thought that, but really I don't believe that. She's too bullheaded!' 
The broadcast also contained a declaration from the mysterious "Cinque," leader of the SLA, who said that from now on no members of the ruling class will be taken prisoner. 
Instead, he said, "corporate enemies of the people will be shot on sight." In a stunning climax to perhaps the most bizarre of all U.S. kidnappings, the 20-year-old the night of February 4. Shortly afterward, the daughter of the President and editor of the San SLA, a shadowv organization believed to number 
Francisco Examiner called her father a "liar" only about a dozen members, claimed respoa­and said she never could go back "to the life I sibility for the kidnapping and demanded a lived before." The statements came only 24 ransom of $70 worth of food for every needy 
hours after SLA had announced it would disclose Californian, which would have cost an estimated the time and place of her release within 72 hours. $400 million. Hearst stated he could not meet such a 
"I have been given the choice of 1) being demand, but he did provide $2 million worth of released in a safe area or 2) joining the forces of free food to be delivered to 150,000 persons infive the Symbionese Liberation Army and fighting distributions, the fifth ending last week. for my freedom and the freedom of all oppressed Unsatisfied, the SLA claimed that was not people," declared the voice of Miss Hearst. She enough. Consequently, the Hearst Corporatioo continued, "I have chosen to stay and fight." put another $4 million in escrow to be used for 
further food giveaways. The total of $6 million 
Although her family verified that the voice ransom ranks as the largest ever provided in a indeed was Patricia's, her father, Randolph kidnapping in the United States. Hearst, remained steadfast in his belief that 
The sudden disclosure that she was throwing inPatricia would not freely join the SLA. Holding her lot with the SLA dashed the hopes of thehis wife's hand as he faced the media yesterday, Hearst family, who had received encouragementHearst stated, "We've had her 20 years. They've only 24 hours earlier by a communique from thehad her 60 days, and I don't believe she i's going 
terrorist group which said Patricia's release was
to change her philosophy that quickly and that imminent.
permanently, and I'll never believe it until·she comes to me, or her mother, or her sisters or one A broadcast from the self-claimed leader of of her cousins and is free to talk without any the SLA, "General Field Marshal Cinque," interference whatsoever." accompanied Miss Hearst's statement. He said 
that henceforth no prisoners will be taken by the Hearst continued, "At that time if her choice is 
SLA, bu that "Corporate enemies of the people to become a member of an organization like this, 
will be shot on sight."we'll still love her and she's free to do whatever 
The terrorist band is believed to have been 
she wants.'" 
spawned among blacks and whites in the Miss Hearst was carried kicking and California state prison at Vacaville near screaming from her Berkeley apartment during Sacramento. 
Psychologist, police, victim discuss rape effects 
Tom Kruczek Staff Reporter A rape has been committed. But after the statements have been taken, the reports typed and filed with thousands of others of its kind -what happens next? In this second article on rape, the Observer has sought the answer to this question by talking to three sources: a psychologist, a police chief, and a victim. According to Dr. Lloyd Sloan, assistant professor of social psychology at Notre Dame, rape affects each victim in a different manner. "A rape will take on a different meaning to each in­dividual victim," he said. "There are severe problems mentally that may occur to the woman involved, and this results in many of the rapes not being reported. Because 
rape." 
Sloan also pointed out that although lately, a wealth of material has been printed con­cerning rape,. not all of the material is beneficial. . Sloan declared, "I am reluctant to call all of the material printed on the subject bad, but some of the articles printed are not worth· 
while." 
He explained the process by which much information is collected is a self-selection process, that means that the subjects_in the surveychoose to be in the survey. 
"This encourages inherently biasing results," Sloan elaborated, "because those that report a rape will be the , ones in the survey, while if you fail to report a rape, you probably would not be in the survey either. This causes us to 

Sloan then pointed out that his concern lies with those women who do not report a rape. He indicated, "We should be more concerned with the negative results that may be associated with the persons reluctance not to report a rape. Trauma and psychological problems may result because of outside pressures. Also the problems with the rape may cause long term psychological problems with personality disruptions." 
Sloan also pointed out that the Counseling Center of the University will aid in arranging help for the rape victim, along with the Notre Dame infirmary. When contacted, the counseling center confirmed that although no definite program for the rape victim is provided, help for the women involved can be arranged. 
One victim involved in an at­the future should write the the Observer and provide a descrip­tion of the assailants, in order that other potential victims might avoid a dangerous situation. 
Chief Foy of the South Bend Police Department commented, "We are not planning anything unusual for the future, wen just be playing the situation by ear." 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin .took issue with a statement similar to the one by Chief Foy, that appeared in yesterday's Observer. McLaughlin disagreed with the statement that "Tiiere have not been that many incidents in the area near the Notre Dame campus to warrant more police!protection," 
a comment made by Captain Benninghoff of the South Bend Police. 
campaign, there is a need for better police protec_tion. We are going to begin a program of research into the crime problem where off-campus Notre Dame students live, and we hope to use the statistics we will compile and present them to the police and other peOple who will be able to take action on the crime problem. I am surprised by the captain's statement, because there is a need for better police protectioo in the off-campus area. True, there may not be that many·rapes, but the situation is gettihg worse and worse." 
As to .when the survey will be executedandthe resultspublished, McLaughlin stated, "We had a meeting Wednesday everning with the cabinet and staff, and we are going to begin work immediately on it. The results. will be in 

of outside pressures, there is a have a very one-sided look at the tempted rape three weeks ago The newly elected SBP objected probably for the start of next definite reluctance to report a victims involved in rapes." suggested that anyone assaulted in "because, as we pointed out in the school year." 

t 
. 
the' observer
2 

warld 

briefs 

WASHINGTON (UPl}--President Nixon will pay $432,787-plus interest that he owes in back income taxes for his first four years in office, the White House said Wednesday night. 
HOUSTON (UPl}--Heavy-weight boxing champion George Foreman said Wednesday a site in Africa was being considered fo~ a match with former champion Muhammed Ali under which he would get a $5 million purse. 
DETROIT (UPl}--FBI bodyguards have been assigned to U.S. Attorney General William Saxbe and his wife be~ause .o~ "~ combination of threats and the current wave of terronst activity, · the Dt-troit Nt-ws reported Wednesday. 
an campus taday 
3:30p.m. lecture "american printmaking" by critic robert john­ston, w. michigan u. rm. 232 moreau hall free 
4:00 p.m. seminar "organized numerical data compilation ac­tivites in physical sciences" by dr. alberta ross con. rom. in rad. lab free 4:15p.m. ward-phillip lee. series "good witch of the west" by dr. robert scholes library aud. free 4:30p.m. colloquim "algebraic k-theory and homotopy theory" by prof. william browder rm. 226--comp. center free 
6:30 p.m. meeting "meet your major" psychology 217 psych. building free 7:30p.m. jazz festival "collegiate jazz festival symposium" further info at CAC 283-3797 lib. aud. free 7:30p.m. charismatic "intra to charismatic renewal" butler bldg. free 8:00p.m. meeting "meet your major" mod. and class. lang. 104 o'shag free • 
8:00 p.m. presentation "french wines" by dr. deering stapleton lounge free 8:15p.m. concert wind ensemble from quincy college washington hall free 
8:15 student recital aimee beckman, soprano little theatre free 8:30p.m. meeting charismatic prayer meeting holy cross hall free 
8:30 p.m. ping pong student union ping pong tournement rathskellar public invited 


Tornadoes hit Midwest: worst in nine years 
By United Press International Xenia. Alabama reported 32 
An onslaught ·of killer tor­dead, Tennessee 27, Indiana 24, nadoes and lethal winds ripped Georgia 16, North Carolina through at le~st nine Midwest four, Illinois two and Ok­and southern states Wednesday lahoma and Michigan one each. in the nation's worst twister disaster in nine years. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the ShJdents of the 
The death count leaped by 
the minute and reached at least 
University of Notre Dame and St. 
220 by 1 A.M., hours after the 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The 
first tornadoes hit. 
Sixty-nine ·persons died in 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame,
Kentucky-30 of them in the 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
river town of Brandenburg. 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556.

Ohio counted 29-25 .of them in 


mcn'l hail 1tyling en's hair Stylin 
~~~ -s'IC,i,. Btttlin 
WHATEVER THE STYLE IT'S A
.. 
~ ,. -.. ..
.•
55·8600 s·e~or:~ ~· 0'\\s\S 
s\1 
HAIR CARl FOR 

TOWN & COUNTRY M~NI MALL--MISHAWAKA,IND. 46544 

Afternoon mail endangered 
Opposition could force return 
by George Velcich  
Staff Reporter Afternoon first-class mail delivery to the residence halls ended this week. And according to an informed source at the Notre Dame Post Office, only stiff student opposition will return the service. The Sectional Postmaster of the  decision. Apparently, the office is manned by only half its normal staff in the afternoon, and the overtime needed to sort first-class items has raised government expenses. Second-and third-class delivery will continue as normal. The source alerted the Observer after numerous complaints  is one of only a few areas in the country to receive first-class letters twice a day, a service traditionally rendered as a courtesy to the students. At the earliest, the service could be returned in the fall 1974 semester, and only with the aid of both the students and the Student  
South Bend Area gave the order, following a departmental survey of the office. The source, who wished to remain unnamed, told the Ob­sery_er that the Postmaster gave only a cursory explanation for the  throughout the week. The source further explained that only strong pressure from students on the Sectional Post­master would cause him to reconsider the order. Notre Dame  Government. The source called seniors awaiting replies from graduate, law and medical schools most likely to be affected. Further word on the move is pending action by the students.  
Armory Party  
precedes An  
Tostal &ish Wake  
Confusion has resulted from the  
rescheduling  of  the  Irish  Wake  
Party during An Tostal and  the  
Armory  Party  slated  for  this  
Saturday evening.  
The Irish Wake was relocated to  
Stepan Center because  the  Ar­ 
mory in South Bend was  already  
booked for another event. It is still  
scheduled for April 20, Saturday of  
An  Tostal  Weekend  with  en­ 
tertainment  by  "Windjammer".  
A regular  Armory Party will be  
held this weekend from 8:30 until  
1 : oo am featuring the Mark Bloom  
Band.  Unlike the Irish Wake, the  
Armory Party is not a date affair.  
The party w.ill be limited to the  
first 1500 people that buy tickets or  
pay at the door. Tickets will be on  
sale  in  the  dining  halls  during  
dinner  and  also  at  the  Student  
Union Office in LaFortune.  
Buses will leave the ND circle at  
approximately 8:15 and every half  
hour until 10:00.  
ALL \IRISH  WAKE  TICKETS  
HAVE BEEN SOLD.  




TRY IT 
For the sixtemth straight year the Collegiate JWJZ Festival will present S(flle of the best amateur and professional jazz ml.l'>icians in the country. And it all happms this weekmd at Stepan Center. Come hear more than twenty hot.m> of jazz from more than twenty tq> 
college jazz bands, and professional jazz musicians like Billy Harp8', Roy Haynes, Bill W altrous and Charlie Hadm. Come to the free Symposium Thtrnday night at the llibrary 
auditorium and to the music sessions Friday and Saturday. 
It'll be a weekend you won't soon forget. 
.
sympOSIUm: thursday 7:30pm 
.
sess1ons: friday 7:30pm $3.00 saturday 1:00pm $2.00 saturday 7:3qpm $4.00 
all three sess1ons $7.00 
tickets on sale at the s.u. ticket office, Iafortune­the dining halls thursday & friday dinners ­pandoras-boogie records 
coli 
iate 077 festival 

the observer.

... '' 1. 




Psychological services available 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 

Bro. Just Paczesny, director of Student Service, presented a report on Notre Dame's Psychological Services Center to the Student Affairs Commitee of the Board of Trustees at a meeting 
March 27. The report, prepared by health " according to a statement 
Observer lnsi~jhl 

Dr. Charles J~ Arens, acting director of the center, describes its purposes, functions, and organization. 
"The reaction of the Trustees was very positive," remarked Bro. Just. "The purpose of the report was not that the Trustees vote on it, but merely to inform them of current operations." 
"This is the first comprehensive report written on Psychological Services," commented Dr. Arens, who is acting director of the center while Fr. Dunn is taking a year's leave of absence. 
"Psych Services," as the center is commonly referred to by students, was founded in 1967 "as a means of maintaining the already high level of student mental 
made by Fr. Dunn that year. The director cause of its foundation was a recommendation made by Dr. Francis Braceland, an eminent psychiatrist who visited the campus in 1967, and a growing realization by the Administration that "the stresses of student life were generally mounting."· 
"Students who come to the 

By Pat Flynn American society at large is bound Staff Reporter to be of particular interest," he "American society is the most continued. In this lecture given sex interested and preoccupied in as part of Campus Ministry's history," stated Fr. Ed. Malloy, in Lenten lecture and discussion a lecture given on Intamacy and series, Malloy began by giving a Sexuality. "For this reason working difinition of the ideal of the issue of sexuality for the intimate, human relationships: Christian living in contemporary mutuality of orgasm, enacted with 

ND must sacrifice to get top concerts 
by Richard Donovan ND Concert Chairman 

Last fall a survey of the concert preferences of the Notre Dame student body was conducted by Ken Lee, a marketing major, and members of the Student Union concert staff. The results are printed below. Though the survey may not be an exact indication of students' desires, it contains the only concrete data that we have. On first reading it holds many surprises. But, if one thinks about it, the rankings make sense. 
Notre Dame as a rule wants to see the famous performer, the one who has had a lot of Am-radio airplay. Unfortunately, such a performer can demand very high fees and buildings with very large seating capacities. The Convocation Center is considered only a medium size facility when compared with Madison Square Garden, the Chicago Stadium, or the arenas at Indiana University of the University of Michigan. The size of the student body and the city are also important factors, and Notre Dame and South Bend are again only in the middle range. 
These factors mean that there are certain acts which we just 
cannot get because of the limits of our situation. These acts are 
looking for maximum gross potentials for the concert as well as to 
push their record sales in the community. This category includes 
Bob Dylan; Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young; Elton John; The Who; 
Led Zeppelin; and George Harrison. 
Others like the Moody Blues, the Allman Brothers Band, Stevie 
Wonder, and Emerson, Lake and Palmer might possibly be booked 
when they are on tour, but only for very high ticket prices and only 
if the act is hard pressed for a date in the Midwest. These bands 
play only a minimum of concerts in the U.S. each year so when they 
do play they can afford to pick only the largest cities in the country. 
Regarding ticket prices, students sometimes balk at our $5.50, 
$4.50, $3.00 scale. But at this point, a raise to a $6.00, $5.00, $3.50 
scale seems unavoidable if we are to maintain our bargaining 
position with the major acts. This is still quite reasonable when you 
consider that the minimum ticket price in most big cities is usually 
$5.00. 
Another reason that your favorite performer might not be here 
this semester is just the reality that he or she may not be on tour 
now. Acts in this category include the Grateful Dead, the Allman 
Brothers, Roberta Flack, Alice Cooper, Carly Simo~, and Traffic. 
Most promoters across the country are having the same problems 
that we are in finding acts which are big enough to fill the large 
arenas. 
It appears that this summer will be a big one in the entertainment 
business since nearly every major act will be touring, looking for 
the bigger dollars to be had in playing outdoor concerts. Rumor 
has it that there may be a Watkins Glen II featuring such acts as 
the Who, the Dead, and the Beach Boys. But to get back to the 
situation at Notre Dame, it should be obvious that we cannot book 
an act which is not on tour. The whole thing is a cyclical process. It 
just so happens that this semester is the low end of the cycle. 
(continued on page 10) 
Center are able to talk with a 
member of our staff the same day 
· they come," stated Dr. Arens in an interview. "They are then given a series of three tests : the Personal Information Form (developed at Notre Dame), the Minnesota Multi-Phase Personality Test, and a Sentence Completion Test." All cases are reviewed in a staff conference held twice a week. If the doctors feel that a student is in need of further aid, the student is assigned to one of the staff for psycho-therapy sessions, usually lasting somewhat less than an hour. Some students attend for a few weeks, others for several months. Dr. Arens stressed the strict confidentiality of both the sessions and the records. The nominal _charge of a $5.00 intake fee and ' $7.50 per session is not attached to the Student Account Statement, but is billed directly to the student with no return address which 
a loved partner of the opposite sex, in which a relationship of trust, and a sharing of the cycle of work and life exist between the partners, and in which the direction of this relationship is toward the productionof offspring. Malloy iterated further that although this type of ideal was difficult to achieve, it was a goal towards which all specifically marital relationships were aimed, and an ideal from which relationships of less degrees of intimacy could be understood and evaluated. 
"Sexuality is a tool in the 
establishment of all relationships 
of intimacy," he said. "Sexuality 
is a means which we use to com­
municate the intimacy of the 
relationship. Like any tool it can 
be used properly or it can be 
misused." Speaking of problems 
of establishing intimate sexual 
relationships in contemporary 
American society, Malloy claimed 
that our culture exhibits a plurality 
of symbols which confuse notions 
about what constitutes a intimate 
relationship and about how one 
attempts to establish such a 
relationship. 
Malloy presented his own for­mulation of the beginning of a modern Christian sexual ethic in a number of points. First it is necessary to see sexuality in terms of ceratin biblicalthemes to which it can be strongly related; that sex is part of creation, creation is good and therefore sex is good; that Christ incarnation means his resurrection.· transforms all human 
actions mcluding sex, and the goal of absolute fidelity of marriage as presented in the Gospel. Second, that the Christian -ethic is conservative, the ideal of love set forth is ap­proximated but never attained. 

Fr. Ed Malloy presented his own formulation of the beginning of a modern Christian sexual ethic 
GIRLS! The cut makes the difference 
The Windjammer has now opened 

its doors to women as well as men. Four expert stylists are. ready to serve you, complete with the full line of RK products. All services by appt. Call Now! 


Uhe WinOjammer 
1637 Lincoln Way W. 232·6622 
..... n. • ••• 

would clearly indicate the letter's origin. These fees are lowered in case of financial hardship, and are payable after graduation. The purpose of the fees is to encourage the student to make a greater effort at solving his problems. 
Most appointments are made voluntarily by the student. 
"I would like to point out that we do not handle vocational counseling or other such services," said Dr. Arens. "Our primary purpose is to aid students with emotional difficulties. There are many other people on campus with whom one can discuss less serious problems, such as the Campus Ministry, the Counseling Center, and the hall rectors." 
At Universities which have comprehensive mental health care, a national average of 10 percent of all students seek professional help. "The per­centage at Notre Dame is 5 per­cent, while at Harvard it is 15 percent," said Dr. Arens. "The difference is due in part, I think, to the availability of other counseling services at Notre Dame, such as the hall rector system." 
Dr. Arens forsees no immediate 
expansion. "However, as the 
female population of the campus 
increases, we'll probably have to 
expand eventually," he said. "It 
has been shown that girls tend to 
use the services more often, 
perhaps because they have more 
emotional problems, or perhaps 
because boys tend not to seek help, 
thinking that they must 'work 
things out for themselves.' " 
What are some of the "generally 
mounting stresses" that the Ad­
ministration sensed seven years 
ago? 
"I think there is more com­
petition in college nowadays," 
remarked Dr. Arens. "Whereas it 
used to take only a 3.1 average to 
get into medical school, now it 
takes at least a 3.6 or so. The 
situation is the same with law 
schools and graduate schools in 
general." 
"Students are more career 
orientated than they were years 
ago," continued Dr. Arens. 
"Students are taking heavier 
course loads and difficult t'nlllr•'"'" mey 're eager to make a gooa record for themselves. We live in a n1ore c;omplicated world and :consequently there are more problems and pressures." 
When asked if the pre-· dominantly male character of Notre Dame posed any iserious problems par:ticular to this University, Dr. Arens answered "No, I wouldn't say so. Problems' here are comparable to any other university, Michigan, for example, or the Ivy League schools." 
Dr. Arens' report stated that the goal of psychotherapeutic work is "the fullest possible development of the individual, which coincides with the University's goal to develop the "whole man." Asked if he felt that Notre Dame lived up to this goal, he replied. "Certainly the emphasis is on intellectual life, but I think the University tries to treat all aspects of the personality. However, I feel that much is left up to the individual, which is good because it forces one to show initiative." 
An appendix to the report makes a recommenation that more use should be made of the consultative function of Psychological Services by the Administration and by faculty: "The Psychological Services Center deal with con­siderable intimacy with almost five per cent of the population and, as such, has come highly specific knowledge of some of the problems facing a portion of the student population." 
Who should use the Psychological Services? "Any student,"statesthe report, "who is aware of a more than momentary difficulty ... may consiaer himself a candidate." This difficulty may be "depression, confusion, inner turmoil, excessive worrying,prolonged loss in in­terest, intense feelings of estrangement and separation etc." 
The "contract" made between the therapist and the student "is a unique one," says the report~In no other human relationship can such a set of conditions (complete confidentiality and professional experience) be imposed for an indefinite term." 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 


Staff 
Morning Edito.r: AI Rutherford Asst. Morning Editors: Dan Sanchez and Mike Kulczycki Layout Staff: .Ginny Faust, Tim O'Reilly, Bill Brink, Bob Quakenbush Day Editors: Gregg Bangs, Pattie Cooney, Tom Russo Copy Editors: Jeanne Murphy, Bob Quakenbush Compugraphics: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: The Southern 
gentleman  
Typists:  Mary  Romer,  Barb  
Norcross,Jeanne  Haug,  Tom  

Modg.lln, John Flannigan Technical Advisors: Tom Dl'ape, Terry Keeney Sports: Greg Corgan and Peggy Lawlor Dr. King photo credit: Don Nelson 
I 1111-HIIIIN 11• 

• • • \ '"' ~ ·• "" ... • "' .,. • M :..,..o:.., • ~ ~ • ' .-• 
the observer Thursday, April 4, 1974 

Dr. King, Martin King, the Lawd-­
(The words which follow were delivered by M. Carl Holman at the 
recent Civil Rights Center Dedication as a tribute to Dr. Martin Luther 
King. It appears in commeration of his death six years ago today. 
Mr. Holman is the President of the National Urban Coalition.) 
THEY called him Dr. King, Martin Luther King, Jr., Martin King, Martin, M.L., the Lawd-first lovingly by the young of the student movement, then flawed with ironic sadness ... 
FoR SOMEof the many here who knew Martin Luther King, it must ·seem almost another age since the time when he was alive, and smiling and walking among us; making us believe in the reality of the human brotherhood he envisioned through the kindling power of his presence and of that voice which was like no other. 
For some who were there, it may seem not six years or more, but only yesterday since they were living through the fear or exaltation, fatigue or frustration of Montgomery ,Albany, Selma, Canton, Cicero, Memphis. And it is still hard to understand that neither the color prints nor high-fidelity electronic recordings can make a child born after August 28, 1963 undersand what that day was like, what the March on Washington meant, what it seemed to promise. 
And it was only last week that a very young man said of another assembly, "I can understand why they went to Gary last ye~r -­because Dick Hatcher, a Black man, is mayor there. But why Little Rock'?" In a country which never much cared for history, it is a very perishable commodity indeed. 
BuT assuredly Martin Luther King made history. Most of the tired, often specious arguements over legal or legislative versus direct action approches no longer interest us. The lawyers and the courts, the legislators and presidents, the incredibly courageous young revels of SNCC, along with NAACP, CORE, the Urban League-all played their part. The churches and synagogues, unions and women's groups, for a time made "white and black together" more than a wish­ful phrase. The laws went on the books. Some doors long sealed shut reluctantly swung open. It was possible finally to have Black voters in numbers that could not be ignored -and thus possible to have Black Mayors and state legislators and enough Blacks in the Congress to form a caucus. 
No small part of all this must be credited, both by disciples and 
detractors, to Martkn Luther King -visionary, sometime pragmatist, 
peace-breaker, peace-maker. 

PEACE-BREAKER ... so much so that he was feared as an "outside agitator' after he and Rosa Parks and Ralph Abernathy and the other nameless townspeople of Montgomery had upset the peace o~ th~t town and won their bus boycott battle. There were even those m h~s native Atlanta who doubted it was wise for us to have young Martm King come home to give the NAACP's Emancipation Day Address, Atlanta being then "a city too busy to hate" -and rather smug~y complacent about it. Sure enough, Mart~~ w~s. bare!y of~ .the tram before he frowned in the direction of the White-()nly waitmg room and quietly asked the welcoming delegation, "When are Ne going to do something about that'?" Some very awkward moments follow~d, Even at the height of his fame, some people were Phillippine insurgent movement said that he hadeveryone being sure that Jim-Crow signs in perhaps the proudest city 
embarrassed by, skeptical of, Martin's reliance on
in the South was a problem all right -but surely somebody else's come to visit America. He wanted us to be sure which problem. those old-timey, churchy, wooden-bench notions which America he meant. "The America", he said , "of 
·seemed out of place in a plasticized modern world: Abraham Lincoln, Franklin Roosevelt --and Martin 
justice, righteousness, redemptive love, brotherhood. Luther King, Jr." 
It is perhapsnot too hard to see what this Brown man, LATER Martin was out of step again when everyone else, including the former guerilla general, might see as linkingsome of his own SCLS board members, had the good sense to see that BuT SCAR-infested children in the muddy yards of himself and Martin King -a shared history of im­silence on Viet Nam was the best policy. After all, what was hap­Missis~ippi towns seemed to understand him. When prisonment, harassment, the passionate drive topening to Brown people in Indo-china -and, in the process, to our own Sterling Brown writes of grown Black men whose eyes liberate a people. But it might seem strange to hiscountry -had nothing at all to do with civil rights, nothing at all to do could not meet those of Whites, it may fall strangely on questioners that a revolutionary, who sought freedom with poverty, nothing to do with human justice. Martin disgreed: the ears of young people reared on Malcolm, Fanon, through violence, should so admire Martin King, theEven in the name of peace, he seemed congenitally unable to hold hiS Baraka, Mikki Giovanni, Don Lee·. But Martin was prophet of non-violent revolution_ As strange as the peace. up and down this country for quite a while, getting irony of thousands of urban Blacks who had neverIt was bad enough to rebuke Southern White moderates in his people up off stoops and into the streets and dusty marched in his campaigns, burning cities in response"Letter from a Birmingham Jail." Not did he always interpret the roads with theirheadsup and eyes straight ahead. He to Martin's assassination.

scripture as others did when it came to rendering unto Caesar and was telling poor people--Black, White, Brown, Red ­

PERHAPS the visitor from the Phillippines already"But scab-infested children in the muddy yards knows that Martin's America has only rarely existed in actuality. But if we are to find our way back again to 11 the painful task of making such a land, it will beof Mississipni towns seemed to understand him. because we are called to judgment not so much by Z' Martin's memory, his spirit ... but rather because we are called by thechildren dying needlessly still in rural 
--------------------------------------------and urbanghettos; by the old who cannot piece out unto God. When a president summoned leaders to a convention at the to throw off the shackles of "nobodiness" and to their days in dignity; by the men and women bereft of White House one Sabbath Day, it was Martin who failed to attend. He recognize themselves as somebody. any real chance of having the jobs, the homes they explianed that he was Co-Pastor with his father of 'Ebenezer Baptist For perhaps more than anything else, Martin's true need, the freedom to move without fear among the and that the Sunday in question happened to be Martin's turn to gift lay in the power he had, at his best, to invest people strangers who are their neighbors -denied the very preach. Those who know Daddy King might have an additional un-of all ages, classes and colors with a liberating sense of essence of manoood and wom~mhood. derstandingforwhere true wisdom lay when the choice was between their own significant humanity. So thalevenin a crowd, staying in the good graces of a president or Martin Luther King, Sr. each could feel uniquely a person. So that fearing hurt 
and death, knowing from what had happened to their comrades that enemies can hate enough to kill, many lT IS THESE who call us, whether or not we choose of them still -· as he did -· took risks and managed hear. Martin chose to hear--to enroll, as he said, as aAs A PEACE MAKER·. he 1 was a practitioner of the non-violence he somehow to master their fear. drum major in the cause which chose him, andpreached, even under the most trying circumstances. He inspired and which he chose. The power, the passion, the fidelityheld together in creative harmony a collection of highly individualistic this one mortal man gave to that choice is the livinglieutenants: Ralph Abernathy, Fred Shuttlesworth, Wyatt Walker, legacy left to those who will use it by Martin LutherJim Bevel, Hosea Williams, Andy Young. Yoking these talents and "IHAVE been to the mountaintop", Martin said on a King, Jr., born a citizen of Atlanta, Georgia. Diedtemperaments in one unit is in itself qualification enough for the Nobel spring evening in Memphis six years ago. Few of us citizen extraordinary of the South ... America ... the Prize. I recall a jam-packed church one night, seething with outrage ::an climb that mountaintop from which he gazed·., 
world ... of that other world--on this fragile planet earth over an agreement with White leadership which many Blacks con­Fewer still find it possible even to imagine --much less -· which is yet to come.

sidered a betrayal. It was Martin who took the floor when all else had see--through the murkiness of these days of deceit and failed. He prevented the Black community from tearing itseH apart greedy indifference --the promised land which he that night, and showed the way to a resumption of the struggle and, envisioned. eventually, to a much more genuine· and just conclusion. · · ' · · -Last week, in San Francisco, the-former leader of the 
by M. Carl Holman 





Student Affairs It's more than you think 
by Gary Allietta Today, the Student Affairs Office has become a $1.5 million operation, and with a staff including personnel at the infirmary, Security, and residence 

Bill Brink 

halls, among others.
Staff Reporters 

Student Affairs was not always so large, though. When the University was founded over a hundred years ago, all of the Student Affairs cameThe Student Affairs Office is probably one, of the most misunderstood under one person, probably the Dean of Students or Dean of Discipline,departments on the Notre Dame campus. Most students feel that the according to Fr. Flanigan.
office exists to inhibit their social activity rather than to help them with Fr. John Cavanaugh, president of the Univesitry before Fr. Hesburgh,the various aspects of college life. 
installed the present administative structure around 1949 or 1950, said Fr.
In this special supplement, the Observer hopes to familiarize the Blantz. Before .think the president had only one Vice-President and the student body with the activities and purposes of the Office of Student different departments came under the jurisdiction of the deans. 
Affairs., and its· personnel. 

1
Every member of the Student Affairs staff has his own conception of the "Father Cavanaugh orgamzed the various offices under four Vice­function of the office, but all will agree thatthe main purpose is to help the Presidents in charge of Acdemic Affairs, Student Affairs, Business Af­student. 
fairs and Public Relations, and appointed an executive Vice-President toFather James Flanigan, who is retiring after having served as coordinate the work of the others," Blantz said.
Associate Vice-President for the last two years, views the department as Since think the Provost has replaced the Vice-President for Academic 
l
the student's voice in the administration. "We're the advocate for the Affairs, added Blantz and coordinates Student and Academic Affairs. 
~ 
students at the University; they express their needs and desires through Not only has Student Mfairs expanded in staff size, bu it has also come us. Also, we're more education than service oriented. Our staff memvers to encompass a larger area of student activity. Now, such organizations like to consider themselves more like faculty members, rather than say a 
j
as the Infirmary, Security, Sacred Heart Church, St. Joe's Lake anddoctor at the infirmary," said Flanigan. 
beach, the cheerleaders, student clubs, club sports,residencehalls, and all other student oriented concerns are covered by the office. 
Director of Professional DevelopmentDr. Robert Ackerman had a more general view of the overall purpose. "Student Affairs is responsible for Because of some of the decisions of the Dean of Students in the past 
l
the out-of-class life of the student, mostly the undergraduates," he noted. few months, the whole Student Affairs office has fallen into the disfavor of 
"American higher education is unique because it does concern itself with much of the student body. However, students would do the office an in­non-academic student life. Other countries don't but at most United justice by judging the whole by one division. States' Universities, some sort of Student Affairs office exists." Most of the staff feel that the major responsibilities lie in helping
The Student Affairs Office is responsible for exactly'what the name students with positive reinforcement. As Dr. Ackerman said, 'Students 
implies, students' affairs. The Student Affairs' file at the Notre Dame think of us in terms of parietals or discipline, not in terms of the in­Information Services Office includes not information about ad­firmary or security or Sacred Heart Church.We'' more far-reaching than 
ministrators, but newspaperclippings;magazine articles, and other items just parties or parietals violations." about the student body itself. Members consider that they, as much as the faculty, participate in the According to Father Tom Blantz, former Vice-President for Student education of students. Fr. Flanigan noted that 'education doesn't end in 
Affairs, the office is "that branch ot the University Administration that the classroom'. Student Affairs is responsible for guiding that part of has for its concern all aspects of student life except the academic?' Father student life outside the academic realm. Blantz includes religious, hall and campus, and social and cultural life in Fr. Blantz added that the Student Affairs office under Faccenda has 
this category. adapted two new methods using professionallly trained staff members and enlarging off-campus student affairs. Because of this , he believes, 
As the ultimate goal of the Student Affairs Office, Blantz singled out 
the present staff should be more effective and helpful than ever. 
the "coordination of the various elements so that Notre Dame becomes a 
-·-·--IHIHIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIUII..IUIIIIIIIHIIIUIIUIIIIL
place in which to develop and learn." 

The main body for accomplishing the coordination is called the Central Supplement Staff Staff. Central Staff was installed by Phillip Faccenda, Vice-President for Student Affairs, as a communication and advisory system. The staff consists of 16 people, including the heads of the various sub-depa_rtments Supplement Editor: AI Rutherford of Student Affairs and the assistant and .associate ..Vice-Presidents. Assistant Editor: Bill Brink 
Central Staff meets weekly to discuss problems among themselves and layout: AI & Bill advise Faccenda. Ackerman added that they "don't make decisions on 
Reporters: Pattie Cooney, Gary Allietta, Bill
student violators." 

Brink, Jim Rosini, Mary Janca, Bill Murphy,
Fr. Flanigan noted that over half the Central, Staff are rectors, and 
Ken Bradford
that most of the members of Student Affairs around 160 people, wor, in . _ A:le resiriAnru> hallil.. Rectors, assistand rectors,. e:ven R.A:s work ·for. the· . ·-< .-..__ . , .Photographer: ~~~~~. _.G~!Ia:_g!~~~;. ~·~~ ~,0 ., .:-JU:n ~., ,,J .xn~ ,Jr ev9 
I • ' • t l 1 1 ' ~ ) · '\ ~'f •ryii 11 
-· , • · • • · · epar~m~nt'. • • • :' •-·• 
Thursday, April 4, 1974
the observer

6 

Who's who on the Central Staff 
by Pattie Coone) f and Mary Janca Staff Reporters 
As Vice-President for Student Affairs, Dr. Philip Faccenda, has the responsibility for coordinating all the aspects of student Iife,which the Student Affairs Office is concerned with. Some of these areas are Housing, Campus Ministry, Health Services, Dean of Students office and Student Activities. 
Although the Central Staff meets regularly and eonfers on decisions to be made, the ultimate decision and responsibility is Faccenda 's In talking about the t·reation of the Central Staff, Faccenda explained, "As \"ice-President of student affairs, I tried to formalize a procedure for seeking advice regularly, rather than in 

meal fashion." he said. 
;';';';';'''""~'~'}~;:;~;:;~:}}':}} 
Hit>hie
Facct>nda 

Another idea behind the creation of the Central Staff is that of fostering the spirit of teamwork. "Policy decisions are better shared. The reason behind the Central Staff meeting is to get more team involvement in policy decisions and getting each person to share responsibility,"he said. 
Having all the Office of Student Affairs with the ex­ception of Campus Ministry and Student Activities , in one place, has many advantatges. "Instead of having ten separate offices in ten different places, we put them together. Any problem can be solved up here" noted Faccenda. In other words a student with a problem to be solved can go to one place, instead of running all over campus. 
Fr. James L.Riehle, serves as Assistant to the Vice­President of StudeMt Affairs. "My experience as Dean of Students for six years has been a major 
contribution to my role as assistant to Dr. Faccenda," noted Riehle. 
Riehle comes in contact with all the various aspects of Student affairs such as the health program, hall life, security and campus ministry. " If their is a nsy particular problem 9r· project he <Faccenda) wants me to handle, then I take care of it. I make that con­tribution to him, and it helps him to serve the students," said Riehle. 
As Director of Campus Residence, Father John M. Mulcahy is responsible for all matters concerning the housing of students on campus, including room allocation assignments, room picks, housing con­tracts, room conditions and damage reports. He is aided by the the Residence Hall Staff. Mulcahy is directly responsible to the Associate Vice-President. 
As a member of the Central Staff, Mulcahy had several observations. "The meetings give one a chance to reflect on ideas one has formed, to reflect on things you've never thought of by hearing some ofthe others' ideas. It gives one a chance for personal growth," commented Mulcahy. 
Father Thomas J. Tallarida serves as Director of Staff Services.The director of staff services is primarily responsible for the facilitation of special projects which at any given time are in progress at the Central Staff level. Tallarida sees the Central Staff trying tc achieve a type of unity, through diversity. "Input depends on the individual. A rector for in­stance, can pi~k up the tome from his staff and from the students in ~he hall,and of course there are a lot of rectors on the staff," observed Tallarida. 

:\lulcahy ,)Oilt'S 

As Assistant to the Provost, Sr. John Miriam Jones serves as a consultant to the central Staff, but is not an actul member. Jones' overall responsibility has to do with co-education, particularly the problems of women in the academic and student affairs area. "Because of my position it is important for me to know what is going on in all aspects of student affairs and it 
is important that contribute on behalf of the women. 
Everyone who has something to do with student affairs 
needs to be brought together." saod Jvnes. 
Jones also" noted several benefits in having a central 
staff. "There is a real benefit in having a number of 
people of different strengths, gifts contributing. There 
are benefits to be drawn from pooling talents, even if 
there is a larger number involved,"sl1e noted. 
Jones also pointed out that there is a great deal of 
concern on the part of the staff for the students. 
"There is a lot of time spent on thinking about, 
discussing issues, problems from the point of view of 
students. Many students would be suprised at the lack 
of one sided decisoins and bureaucratic heavy han­
dedness," noted Jones 

As Dean of Students, John Macheca, is primarily concerned with student discipline and campus security. Macheca contended in a recent Observer article that his major responsibility is to respond when the Univeresity's behavioral code is violated. 
Macheca has initiated several programs this year to foster the idea of positive, rather than reactive action. An example of this positive approach is the newly created position of hearing officer. With the reation of the hearing officer, each student case could have as much personal time and attention as necessary. 
Father Terence Lally is the Assistant Dean of 
Students. Lally also sees a major responsibility in 
discipline and security. "This office has an in­
vestigatory responsibility to ascertain what occured in 
an incident that couldn't by handled at another level," 
Lally explained. "The office is an ombudsman in 
terms of discipline and security; if a problem can't be 
settled on a local level, or if university rules are 
violated, then the matter becomes our responsiblility," 
he continued. 

Students use the dean's office for sevices suet. as 
letters of recommendation and other favors. In ad­
dition "we work with students in regard to furthering 
programs they believe in," commented Lally. 
Lally sees the office of the dean as being in the middle of a crossfire because of the human element involved. "In dealing with discipline and security, we come in contact with a large number of people and it means coordinating with a large number of people. My major responsibility to the students is to tell the truth; to make the institution stand for something in regard to values she has espoused," he esplained. 

P:tClti('Sily Sdllavt>r 
As a member of the Central Staff, Lally saw the philosophy behind it as a sharing of common projects and the exchange of concerns over common problems. "I think the purpose of the Central Staff is to provide and opportunity to give advice and consent on problems that come up and to air complaints. The meetings are a free flowing sort of thing and there's a lot of give and take. 
As Director of Student Activities, Fr. David Schlaver notes "at least three main divisions" in his work on the central staff. 
In one of his roles in student activities, Schlaver described himself as "facilities co-ordinator for La Fortune and Stepan Centers," and his offices as "a clearing-house for all events on campus -concerts, lectures, and festivals." Any student activity outside 
of the classroom must go through his office, he said. 
"This is a center for activity," he commented, "and each activity gets its start here (in his office.) If a student or group of students attempting to sponsor a particular activity on campus, were to come to his office initially, Schlaver explained, much red tape could be avoided, and "we could accpmplish it right away." Following• approval from Schlaver's office, all that remains for an idea to become a reality, is for it to be cleared through the student union and the calendar office, he added. 
The second division of his responsibilities is to give financial advice and direction, and possibly additional funding, to " 4 long-standing university oranizations 
which are budgetted by the university." Such organization, continued Schlaver, include the band, glee club, orchestra, Scholastir, Dome, and Juggler publications, the debate team, LaFortune, Stepan Center, the poolroom, WNSD, a classical music series, and the cheerleaders, as well as class events such as freshmen orientation and junior parents' weekend. 
Beginning new projects, particularly in the area of community development, is another function of the Student Activities staff. Thus, as Director of Off­Campus Student Activities, Mr. Cassell Lawson, "co­ordinates special volunteer activities, such as the Street Academy, an experimental school for high school drop-outs where ND students can supplement the staff to give it additional academic support; AC­TION, a local poverty program,; and currently, the Muscular Dystrophy drive," said Lawson. 

The Director of Student ServiCes, as the title implies, 
oversees the three major student-oriented services on 
campus. Thus, Bro. Just Pacznesny, working under 
that position, "looks after" the student infirmary, 
psychological services, and the placement bureau. 
Primarily, htworksto "oversee budgets and approve 
expenditures.' 
Flanigan Lawson 
In addition, As Director of Student 'services, he acts as the principle liason between the Student Affairs office and the other major university offices, such as Business Affairs, and Public Relations and Develop­ment. 
Sharing equally the responsibilities of the Vice President for Student Affairs is the Associate Vice­President Fr. James Flanigan. This central staff member also assumes the role of the vice president whenever Dr. Faccenda is unavilable or when directed to take over bv the vice president. 
While various members of the central staff are also 
involved with several other aspects of residentiality, 
!<'Ianigan sees his role as that of a co-ordinator. "The 
central staff has not left its members segmented, each 
with one individual idea, but through this staff, a 
common agreement can be reached," he said. 
Director of Campus Ministry Fr. William Toohey 
described himself as "the head of a team operation." 
This team, composed of Fr. Robert Griffin, Fr. Tom 
McNally, Fr. Tom Stealla, Sr. Jane Pitz, Fr . Joseph 
McTaggart, and himself, is ultimately in charge of "co­
ordinating. and facilitating the various aspects of 
ministry on campus,' Toohey stated. "Their job," he 
continued, "involves a triple-thrust." 
The first regardscampus-wid£programs, such as the 
lenten series, Sacred Heart Masses, Bulla Shed ac­
tivities. and pre-cana instruction for engaged couples. 
A third function of the team, is to serve the off­campus student. Toohey commented that off-campus students "seem to principally involve themselves by coming on-campus," and by participating in Sacred Heart and hall Masses, in Bulla Shed activities, in retreats, and by visiting with various campus ministry members. 
Dr. Robert Ackerman, Director of Professional Staff Development, is principally concerned with intra­division educational programs in the student personnel career field. Specifically, he evaluates from time to time the effectiveness of various training programs, and particularly training programs for the residence halls staff: RA's, rectors, assistant rectors. 
"The primary emphasis of my job is to make the hall staffs more effective in dealing with the students," said Ackerman. 
According to Fr. Thomas Chambers, Assistant to the Vice President for Student Affairs, "My position is the whole area of working with the vicepresidentwhevever he senses there is a need." 
"I have been available to Dr. Faccenda for various progra.ms he wants investigated, and studying, analyzmg, and doing research as to what is going on throughout the country." 


Toohey Shilts 
"Many off-campus students feel like lost souls, and abandonedand if there's any way we can make them feel more at home, that's what we try to do," stated the Director of Off-Campus Residence, Fr. James Shilts. 
His major responsibility is to provide off-campus housing information and to make available the same opportunities and programs offered in the residence halls. 


7 
• 

Student Affairs:student-oriented? 

•

Dean of Students' office -the ma1n link 
By Ken Bradford 
Staff Reporter 

The Office of Student Affairs, located at 315 Ad­ministration Building, has a wide variety of student service programs in addition to the Dean of Students department, according to Dr. Phillip Faccenda, Vice­President for Student Affairs. 
Mentioning the Student Infirmary, Housing Office, Campus Security, Campus Ministry, Placement Bureau, LaFortune Student Center, and Psychological Services, Dr. Faccenda noted that there are numerous concerns of Student Affairs not commonly asssociated with the office. 
"The Student Affairs Office at Notre Dame is designed to aid in the educational processes of the student," Dr. Faccenda stated. "Student services have always been a major part of the educational 
" 

Dr. Faccenda added that in his two years in Student Affairs he has "introduced a few organizational techniques to make our service more effective, we have expended a great deal of energy to try to better train our staff, and we have attempted to expand our programs to off-campus students in a more effective way." 
Out-of-class life Dr. Robert Ackerman, who serves as Director of Staff Development for Student Affairs, stated, "This office exists basically to be concerned with the out-of­class life of the student. Research studies have shown that what most students take away from college is this 
By Hill Murphy 
Staff RPporter 

Probably the main link between the average student and the central staff of the Student Affairs Office is the Dean of Students. Students normally only have dealings with such branches as Housing or Campus Ministry on a limited basis but students are directly effected almost everyday by the Dean of Students either through direct contact or some general decision. 
Dean of Students, John Macheca, spoke with The Obsp•·w•· about his job: what he feels it entails, how he goes about it, and how he feels about it. 
According to Macheca, the Dean of Students' job entails working for and with young people when problems arise, being aware, at all times, of their safety. 
Macheca stated in an article in Monday's <March 25) Obspn·pr that it was primarily the responsibility of the Dean of Students to respond appropriately when Notre Dame's behavioral expectations are violated. Macheca felt that the student code wasn't that harsh and believed that it wasn't as strongly adhered to now as in the past. 
students have sought assistance from and received a greater understanding for Student Affairs ... II 
"As a matter of fact," said Macheca, "Many of the cases that come to this office, with the exception of parietal violations, are considered as crimes in other communities and they are frequently felonious in nature." 
Dean Macheca agreed with the idea that his office served as a main link between the Student Affairs staff and the average student. 
"Throughout this year," stated Macheca, "students have sought assistance from and received a greater understandil!g for Student Affairs through my office." 
Macheca felt that despite reservations that may have resulted from the Dean of Students disciplinary image he has been able to help students see that the entire staff of Student Affairs tries to serve the needs of the student body. 
"If more student members of the community could see the necessary function of discipline," said Macheca, "then my office would be able to work on other things that are a necessary part of Notre Dame's out-of-class education." 
The value-svstems a student develops in college are more important than the grade-point average he or she attains, Dr. Ackerman said. "The degree a student receives from college speaks largely for his or her academic competence alone," he observed. 
The politicians complicated in the Watergate affair, Dr. Ackerman noted, were all competent graduates of prestigious law schools but "their value-systems were messed up." · 
Value-education needed 

The role of the University, and inevitably, the Office of Student Affairs is in "creating a climate where value-education can take place," Dr. Ackerman said. "Besides the tremendous effect of the Christian tradition on student values, Notre Dame is unique because our President, Fr. Hesburgh is so highly value-oriented and nationally respected for it." 
Dangerous trend occuring 

Dr. Ackerman, in his third year with Student Affairs at Notre Dame, stated that a dangerous trend in education occurs when students give little con­sideration to their expectations of the values of the school they attend. "Parents are beginning to send their sons and daughters to college as a natural progression from kindergarten, often with little more thought than that," he said. 
The Student Affairs Office feels that the best method of serving students is by attempting to present the best possible atmosphere for individuals to develop good value-systems, Dr. Ackerman stated. "You serve this sort of community by being willing to involve yourself in the lives of others," he noted. 
Integrity and honesty 

The accomplishment of this ideal community requires, according to Dr. Ackerman, a group effort­"when students refuse to tolerate violations of their moral beliefs, when campus security refuses to allow violations of the laws of society, when faculty members punish plagiarism and dishonesty of all sorts in the classroom." 
Most important, however. is that students. faculty 
concern for the lives of the students." 
Since taking over the position of Dean of Students Macheca has tried to apply a philosophy of preven­tative action rather than reactive. Macheca said that first semester was primarily an exercise in learning what the job was about and that it wasn't until second semester that the actual application of this philosophy could start. 
Macheca -spoke of several programs instituted this year to try and facilitate this idea of positive rather than reactive action. 
First was the establishment of a hearing officer so that each student's case could have a~ much personal time and attention as necessary. Macheca also in­troduced a "developmental approach" to student discipline and to aid this approach he has tried to suggest significant alternatives to the traditional penalties of probation and suspension. 
Another time consuming program that the Dean of Students office has worked on is the revision of alcohol rules. "Great amounts of time," said Macheca, "have been spent with Hall staffs and students to help them understand the new alcohol guidelines, how they can work freely within the guidelines and why the new guidelines were provided." 
Macheca also stated that he has been investigating the potential for educative and rehabilitative alcohol and drug programs for the members of the student community. 
Many people seem to feel that the Dean of Students office has been trying to centralize power because of the seemingly greater role Dean Macheca has been taking in matters such as hall parties or violations that normally used to be handled by each individual rector. 
Macheca emphasized that those cases which have drawn attention to his presence were actually serious case concerning violence, alcohol, drugs, theft, or parietal violations. "One reason for centralization of power in these cases," said Macheca, "was to insure consistant justice on campus free of parochial in­terference." 
Dean Macheca is one of the first men in the office of Dean of Students who has had to deal with both male and female students. Macheca stated that, so far, all cases which have involved women have been handled in much the same way as men's cases. "Of course," said Macheca, "that's my opinion and someone else may feel differently about the situation." 
"I believe in the university's right to establish behavioral expectations," said Macheca, "and I can 
Lally members,-staff, and administrators teach integrity and honesty through leadership and setting the example, Dr. Ackerman said. Assistant Dean of Students Fr. Terry Lally also mentioned personal initiative as important to the community. "Ours is not meant to be a pedagogical function. Students should be largely responsible for dreaming up their own programs," he said. 
Working with .suggestions 

Fr. Lally stressed that students and administrators 
should be partners in a common pursuit. "Students 
should come in and tell me what they honestly want, 
I'll tell them what I want and expect, and then we can 
deal with the suggestions," he explained. 
Our only real job in student programs is to receive 
the students' suggestions and help them administer 
and implement them if necessary," Fr. Lally ob­
served. 
"The planned LaFortune renovation and the location 
of the Irish Wake in Stepan Center are good examples 
of student input and administrative cooperation," he 
noted. 
Fr. Lally, who also serves as rector of Stanford Hall, 
pointed out that the Student Affairs Office as well as 
the Dean of Students is responsible to many people for 
every policy decision they make. Policy decisions are 
influenced by the University President, the Provost, 
the Board of Trustees, the Student Life Council, and 
various other groups, he said. 
(continued on page 8) 

readily identify with the current expectations. I feel it a great privilege to function in an area which I feel is crucial to the future of Notre Dame. The expectations this community has for one another have always been and will always be the strength of the Notre Dame family." 
Macheca pointed to the fact that some colleges and universities have replaced their disciplinary systems with local criminal codes. "This has not happened here," said Macheca, "and I believe this to be of not only benefit to the students but to the whole Notre Dame community. As a result, we are able to per­petuate the kind of personal interaction that is the Notre Dame community. I hope that we will never get to the position where we are dealing with each other on strictly legal terms, however, anything less than that will require trust and respect, commodities which are elusive in today's society, especially in authority relationships." 


• 8 the observer Thursday, April 4, 1974
I r 
J 
I Rectors keep hall role separate
I 

Disciplinary measures defended 
By Jim Rosini

'I 
Staff Reporter "How do you view your role as a rector in relation to 

' 
the central staff of student affairs," was the question posed to seven rectors in an effort to discover if the central staff was in fact hindering or helping the rector's role in hall life. 
Father John M. Mulcahy, Director of Campus Residence and Rector of Flanner Hall, had this an­swer, "The central staff has made hall life decisions more democratic, but it is harder to bring out the idea 
of direction or real goal when twenty people are in­volved." Mulcahy continued explaining that it is harder to get concrete goals or achievements set with such a large central staff, of which he is a member, 
than with smaller groups. Democratic system 

In favor of the centnil staff Mulcahy commented that it is a more democratic system because the decisions are no longer made by one person, but rather an entire staff. 
However, Mulcahy did add, "Every rector has to run his own hall in his own way. The individual rector must implement his own goals." 
When questioned as to whether or not there were any style of personality differences in operating on the central staff Mulcahy commented, "We're all in the same boat. We have the same goals. It's the same university." 
"A good rector doesn't have many discipline 
problems" said Mulcahy. "Those should be a minor 
part of his duties." 


Chambers 

Fr. Thomas E. Chambers, Assistant to the Vice­President of Student Affairs and Rector of Morrissey Hall, views the relation between rectors and the central staff as a close one. Chambers is a member of the central staff and he feels that it brings out, "a spirit of real professionalization." 
"It's an office which looks upon the needs of it's department and addresses itself to these needs," said Chambers. "Dr. Faccenda has done a lot in developing and unifying the office." 
Chambers continued saying how he thought the central staff program was a sensitive one that allowed for the input of rectors at all times. 
Chambers has done consulting work with other schools and said, "The central staff is anxious to hear the attitudes ofrectors,an openness not found at other colleges. Such a department as ours has open attitudes and a healthy clientel." 
Chambers also pointed out other schools which have a similar program to ours, such as the University of Florida and St. Louis University, and another, John Carroll University which is looking at Notre Dame as a model. 
Kathleen Cekanski, Rector of Breen-Phillips Hall and a member of the central staff, feels that she is a spokeswoman for the rectors on campus. 
"The rectors are divided into four groups and feed into the central staff. I feel this is a good system," said Cekanski. 
Presley 

Fr. William Presley, Councelor of the Freshman Year of Studies and Rector of St. Edward's Hall, views his role as a rector in relation to the central staff as "quite good." "It is a major improvement over the past years," said Presley. 
Presley is presently in his third year in the rectoring position and feels that there has been a gradual im­provement in his relations over the past three years. "You can freely voice your opinions, as far as com­munication goes," added Presley. 
"They !the central staff) are very accessible to us and we are very accessible to them," said Presley, referring to matters concerning residence hall life. 
Fr. Thomas J. Tallarida, Director of Staff Services and Rec~or of Zahm Hall, said, "There is a big dif­ference '>etween the two roles of rector and central 
staff.1''' ' • ·• ·' '·· • ' • 


Tallarida "One is the overall picture as to the policy and what should be done in matters concerning housing, etc. and for setting up guidelines," said Tallarida. "The rec­tor's job in the hall is his ability to relate with the staff in some type of congenial fashion--if there is a gap, find out what it is." Tallarida then explained saying that the rector's job is to work basically in the hall. Speaking about his relations with the central staff Tallarida said, "One feeds the other, I can enlighten them as I see the students problems," and the central staff can be of help to the rectors. "There is something positive on both sides," said Tallarida. "They need rectors who have had first hand experience." Tallarida feels that the central staff is a good system because, "It can act as an advisory group to Mr. Faccenda. In that way he can get a feeling of where the rectors are at." 
"Two way street 

"As a rector I come under student affairs and therefore under central staff," said Fr. Thomas McNally, Associate Director of Campus Ministry and Rector· of Grace Hall. "Therefore, I have certain accountability to central staff and this accountability may well mean that my staff and I are asked to carry out directives with which we disagree." 
"Furthermore, my staff and I are called on to keep the lines of communications open between us and central staff," said McNally. "Finally we are called on to do our best to trust in central staff." 
McNally then explained that what he just stated was, "clearly a two-way street." "The central staff has a certain accountability to me and to my hall staff, to help us fulfill our duties capably," continued McNally. "Central staff must also make sure the lines of com­munication are open between us, and must do its best to trust us." 
In conclusion McNally said, "In the name of this trust we may even call on central staff to allow us discernment in dealing with situations which arise within the hall." 
"The Central Stall is anxious to hear the attitudes of rectors, an openness not found at other colleges" 
(continued from page 7) 
"The problem is one of trying to please all of these people at the same time-and none of them are rubber stamp organizations," Fr. Lally noted. 
Fr. Lally observed that just as some people mistakenly use the terms "Student Affairs" and "Dean of Students" sysnonomously, the Student Affairs Office and the Dean of Students office are similarly branded as student disciplinary organizations. "Frankly, a large portion of our business is just lending advice, helping people out, and doing people favors," he said. 
He added that he feels the admimstration ot University policy and disciplinary actions are a necessary facet of serving the students. Fr. Lally noted that seven students are presently under suspension from the University for disciplinary matters-only one of which resulted from. parietals violations. 
"The other kids would be in real trouble with civil authorities had not the University taken action," Fr. Lally noted. He listed among the serious crimes thievery, large-scale vandalism drug pushing, and dangerous drunken driving. 
"We think that the one semester suspension is often the best thing we can possibly do for the student," Fr. Lally stated. 
Dr. Faccenda agreed that discipline at Notre Dame has been limited to a "small number of major actions, responding mostly to what are considered major of­fe.Jt>es in almost all other societies." 
"We expect students to self-regulate their own behavior by the time they get here," Dr. Faccenda said. 
"Our role is in stating the general guidelines as in keeping with the traditions and spirit of the com­.munity--These are the guidelines we live by ourselves and we ask the students to join in," he explained. 

"It is also easy for a rector to go up and see the Dean of Students," explained Cekanski. Cekanski then continued saying that any lack of communication is the fault of the rector because the Dean of Students is always available for consultation. 
"There are some things that need to be ironed out on the central staff," said Cekanski. "People have dif­ferent ways to accomplish different goals, but the long run set-up is good and workable." 
Misunderstanding of rules 

When questioned as to whether or not this year's party regulations were affecting the halls social at­mosphere Cekanski said that she feels there is a basic misunderstanding of what the party rules are. "The rector is the person who says 'yes' or 'no' to a party " said Cekanski. ' 
"J?ea~. Mac~eca is just a filing service for campus parties, contmued Cekanski. "Any mishaps are the rectors fault." 
Cekanski does not see any change in her hall's parties and said,' are the same rules as last yearbut 
" 
f'l'kanski 

The final rector to be interviewed was l~ather Matthew M. Miceli, Associate Professor of Theology and Rector of Cavanaugh Hall for the past ten years. 
"I don't worry about these things, you see many things come and go," answered Miceli. "The central staff has been very helpful in running my dorm." 
Miceli cited an example where there had been some hall damage due to water leakage and the central staff took prompt action on it. 
In the area of discipline, Miceli sees no major change since the central staff was established. 
"The central staff's drinking rules are an effort to establish responsibility," said Miceli. "Have your party but we want to know who is responsible." 

Miceli Miceli further explained saying, "Those responsible keep the party in a responsible pattern." Miceli then said that there were fewer parties in his hall this year but feels that it might just be a trend throughout the country'· recalling from his ten years experience that students change from year to year. 
~~~~------------------------------­


vibes at the collegiate jazz festival 
by mark froze/ 

The 1974 Collegiate Jazz Festival starts tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium with a free symposium featuring the professional musicians and teachers on campus as judges for the event. 
CJF, the sixteenth such festival, moves towards an emphasis different from in the past. According to Ken Lee, chairman, "We've tried to eliminate as much as possible the competitive aspect in favor of just giving each group a chance to get up on stage and play." 
Friday night, the ND Big Band, the ND jazz group "Erg's Finger Circus," and the Malcolm X College Big Band, among others, will perform. On Saturday afternoon, the Ohio State Big Band and the Governor's State Big Band will be playing. In the final session Saturday night, the Modern Jazz Quintet from Indiana University, the Gekko Lizard Combo, and a special jam session with all the judges participating will be featured. 
Starting at midnight, the judges jam should be the major highlight of the festival. This year's judges include: 
DAN MORGENSTERN: a presence in the jazz scene for many years, he joins CJF as a judge for the eighth time this year. Mr. Morgenstern has edited various music magazines including Jazz, Metronome, and Down Beat. He has also produced con­certs, been a broadcaster and lectured extensively in his field. 
CHARLIE HAYDEN: bassist, composer, producer, he plays with Ornette Colman but has also released his own album, 'Liberation Music Orchestra.' It was awarded Best Album of the Year in Japan, the Grand Prix Charles Cos Award in Paris, and placed third in Down Beat's International Critic's Poll. Mr. Hayden was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1970 for music composition and in 1972 he received a National En­dowment for the Arts grant. 
BILLY HARPER: playing tenor sax with the Thad Jones-Mel 
Lewis Band, he has just recently returned from a concert trip to 
Japan. Mr. Harper has also been a featured soloist with the Gil 
Evans Orchestra and recorded with Max Roach, Elvin Jones, 
Donald Byrd and Lee Morgan. He has previously appeared here 
at the CJF '64 when the judges awarded him the "Most 
Promising Saxophonist.'' Obviously those judges weren't 
wrong. 
ROY HAYES: among the top jazz drummers working today, 
he played with Miles Davis' original 1949 group, and has also 
backed up John Coltrane, Stan Getz, Gary Burton and many 
others. Mr. Haynes has toured all over the glove including five 
visits to Japan. He joins CJF as a judge for the second time this 
year. 
LONNIE LISTON SMITH: pianist, composer, and arranger, 
he has played with Miles Davis, Leon Thomas, Betty Carter, 
Ethel Ennis, Joe Williams, and also leads his own act, The 
Cosmic Echoes. 'Astral Traveling,' the group's first album 
contains six original compositions and they are now working on 
a second album. 
BILL WATROUS: trombonist, arranger, and composer, he 
has done extensive work in both jazz and rock music scenes. He 
has played with Woody Herman, Quincy Jones, Thad Jones-Mel 
Lewis Band, and such rock and roll bands as Ten Wheel Drive 
and Eclipse. 
An impressive array of both professional and collegiate jazz 
talent, a relaxed atmosphere, a tremendous Electro Voice sound 
system, it's all starting tomorrow at Stepan Center. Cost for all 
three sessions is $7.00, for Friday night $3.00, for Saturday af­
ternoon $2.00, and for Saturday night with the jam $4.00. 
It doesn't matter, really, if you're not particularly into jazz . music. What's more important is this is a great chance just to hear some good live music. So stuff those precious Beach Boy oldies away and get into some jazz. It's a positive vibe! 
1 
1 
I 
l 
1 
I 
I I 
._ I I I I 

lonnie Iiston smith charlie hayden 
,· 

1 0 the observer Thursday, April 4, 1974 

Ruckelshaus senior fellow· '; 



Ericksen. Grace elected 
by Chris O'Brien Staff Reporter 

Tickets headed by Greg Ericksen and Augie Grace enjoyed the best response from a light voter turnout yesterday and have thus been catapulted into the executive offices of the Senior and Junior Classes respectively. 
"First of all, my running mates and I would especially like to thank all the people in the halls who did so much work for us," said an "extremely happy" Greg Ericksen upon learning of his victory over four other tickets in the election for Senior Class Officers. This idea of thanking their workers came up innumerable times in con­versations with the winners in yesterday's elections for Senior Officers, Junior Officers, and Senior Class Fellow. Augie Grace, the Junior President-elect, com­mented, "I would like to thank all the voters and people who showed so much interest in us and our campaign." 
When speaking of the campaign, president-elect along with his running mates, V-P Bob Spann, Secretary Chris Fenn, and Treasurer Joe Henderlong, commented, "We ran a low-key campaign and hoped it would peak out last night. We put up posters and then went around to some of the dorms knocking on doors and talking to people. We are really thankful for the support we received from or home hall, Morrissey. It was definitely a decisive factor in the outcome of the election." 
Ericksen also said, "We didn't expect to win by such a large margin, but I want to thank all the other tickets for a well run and very interesting election." 
As for policies next year, Ericksen explained, "We want to have a lot of class participation. As regards the Senior Trip, we will send out questionnaires regarding destinations and expenses and the preference of the seniors will be honored. We also want to start early on graduation so that it will be a meaningful andwell-organized event." 
Ericksen had one further statement to make, this one in his capacity as current Junior President. He said, "We want to tell all the Juniors that Tuesday, April 23 will be Junior Bar Night at the Senior Bar. It is for all Juniors who will be 21 and beer will be sold at the usual cost. We would have mentioned it earlier but we felt it would have an unfair effect on the election." 
The campaign of Augie Grace and his running mates, Sue Caranci, Betsy Kall and Rick Hamilton was run along the same lines as Ericksen's. "We, of stressed help to off-campus why the voting for Senior Class students and student represen­Fellow came down to only Rhodes tation on Father Hesburgh's Bi­and Ruckelshaus, present Senior centennial Committee. When Class President, Gerry Samaniego questioned further about these replied, "It is very simple. Of the points, Grace answered, "We want seventeen persons nominated for to set up an entertainment series Senior Class Fellow, only these two for these same students." Sue replied that they could make it. All Caranci, the vice-president, the others were either busy or they continued, "We would like to plan declined." social events around campus like The final point noted by the Armory Parties or keggers and we candidates to all offices was the would like to have bus trips to our turnout of the voters. Only 300 away games next year." seniors voted, while 761 juniors and 
634 sophomores turned out. Rick 
Commenting on the togetherness Hamilton, the junior Treasurer of next year's juniors, Grace said, commented, "a lot of people didn't "We had a lot of support from a lot even know there were elections of people and next year, we want today," while Augie Grace said, 
the total unity of the class." "Perhaps the campus media is at fault for not making the voting 
Concluding the interview, Grace date known." As for Greg said, "We are looking forward to Ericksen, he planned on about 800 next year and we want the juniors juniors voting, so he was not to present their views to us." bothered by the turnout. 
In the voting for Senior Class The whole election evening was Fellow, William Ruckelshaus best summed up by Betsy Kall, outpolled Rusty Rhodes by a two to who said, "We are really happy one margin of 202-98. When asked and we are ready to go to work." 
Top concerts lor ND 
•


requ1re sacrifices 
(continued from page 3) 
The third category of artists who will not be at Notre Dame this semester are those who will be on tour and are within our range but who had open dates at a time when no openings were available in the ACC calendar. Now there are many people who wish to use and Student Union must take what is available. Mr. Plouff and Mr. Sassano, the managing directors of the facility, are cooperative in allowing us to reserve certain dates at the beginning of the season. Unfortunately in this business, one is subject to the whims of an artists schedule, so it is quite difficult to get the people you want when you can offer the agent only a few openings in a three or four week period. 
One problem related to the number of openings is the scheduling of basketball and hockey contests. Basketball games are closing more and more weekend dates to concerts, but there seems to be no way to avoid that. However, we lost two concerts this year (Loggins & Messina on November 16 and Seals & _Crofts on February 22) because it is the policy of the Convocation Center not to run a concert against a hockey match. Now Student Union is the last one who wants to detract from the support of university athletics. But my point is that a hockey game seems to draw a maximum of abc·Jt 1500 students. That leaves more than 8000 free to attend the concert. Physically, there is no manpower or equipment shortage which would prevent the simultaneous staging of those events, and it seems a shame to pass-up such fine en­tertainment. 
Finally there is that category of performer who is musically good and within our price range, but who is not popular enough at Notre Dame to be considered a good risk. New Riders of the Purple Sage are a perfect example, as are Van Morrison, the Kinks, Humble Pie, Jefferson Starship, and maybe Procol Harum. Musical taste on this campus is diverse to say the least, and it is difficult to satisfy the kid from New York as well as the one from Michigan. 
. Sometimes very difficult decisions must be made as to whether a particular act would do well here. One function of the survey is to help in making those decisions. 
I once received an anonymous letter urging me to try harder in booking concerts because Deep Purple, Yes, Stephen Stills, Foghat, Poco, King Grimson, and Edgar Winter were going to play in Chicago and not at Notre Dame. I assure the faceless author of this note that I was aware that these bands were on tour. However, I am also well aware of the reasons, beyond my control, that they will not play here this semester. 
In the last three years Notre Dame has become a big name in the college concert scene. Yet there are still limits to what we can do. I only hope that this article provides some insight into the latent factors behind the operation of Notre Dame concerts. 
course, had posters and went around to the halls on Monday and Tuesday· night. We went to the Towers on Tuesday night because 


K.O. SPINS 
we felt that they were our weak point," said Grace. The platform of the victors 
TONITE AT THE 



SENIOR BAR 
FRIDAY SPECIAL: SATURDAY SPECIAL: 
7 & 7's Gin & Tonics 



3/$100 

SWING INTO SPRING ON ANEW BIKE 
o 
Bikes for all ages of the family! 

o 
Bikes from 3 different countries! 

o 
Complete line of accessories 

o 
Service on all brands! 




90 Day Terms-No Interest 305 EMcKinley Ave. Mishawaka 256 1330 
IMPORTANT 


SCHOLASTIC 

General Meeting 

With New Editorial Board TONIGHT 6:00 pm 4th floor, LaFortune ALL INTERESTED PEOPLE INVITED 

SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 
ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR: 
SOCIAL COMMISSIONER MOVIE CO-ORDINATOR SPECIAL EVENTS COORDINATOR HALL EVENTS COORD INATORS 
Applications only open till Friday. For interview, call 4430, 4824, 5307 

•• J 
Thursday, April 4, 1974 the observer 1 1 
SMC election today 
SPRING FLING ARMORY PARTY 
Candidates express views 
by Janet Longfellow student government and St. the coUege system coupled with a 
Staff Reporter Mary's in general," she said. sincere desire to listen to and recognize student needs and rights." 
Elections for St. Mary's Board of The second candidate for the Governance will be held today with position of Student Affairs Corn­Running for Student Social the voting taking place in the missioner is Sophomore Judy Commissioner is Junior Joan residence halls. Of the five Mardoian. If elected, Mardoian Garrett. Garrett proposes the positions open for candidacy, only says she will "work closely with broadening of the scope of the office of Student Affairs the faculty, administration and the Student Government by Commissioner has contending Student Board of Governance." providing the students with the candidates. Mardoian 's service includes opportunity to voice their opinions 
membership on the Student in order to effect the changes that Running for Student Affairs Assembly, LeMans and McCan­they most need and desire. As the 
Commissioner are Chris Albosta dless Hall Councils, Student Af· present Student Affairs Corn­and Judy Mardoian. Other can­fairs Committee and the Room missioner, Garrett stated, "I have didates include: Ann Smith for Selection Committee. She also realized that Student Government Hall Life Commissioner, Joan served as the Freshman Class is ineffective without student Garrett for Social Commissioner representative to the Assembly support." and Mary Celeste (Tess) Lehman and as Chairman of the co-ex Meal for Academic Affairs. program. Mardoian believes this The present Academic Affairs 
record "Has given me a good Commissioner, Tess Lehman, is 
In her platform for Student understanding of what a person candidate for the office again this Affairs Commissioner, Chris must do to make herself qualified year. As the St. Mary's com­Albosta stresses the important for the position and be open to our munity changes, she feels that effect that the new SMC president student body at the same time." vital decisions must also be made can have on the school. She ex­concerning changes in academics. 
plained, "The new President has The Hall Life candidate is Junior Lehman's platform agreed with 
the option of appointing a new Ann Smith, who filled the same those of the other candidates that administration or of continuing change must continue. As part of
post last year and has also served 
her Academic Affairs proposal,

with the present administration. as Hall President of Regina. Smith Either way, it is more important feels that change in SMC as an Lehman felt that "student representation in these areas are
than ever for students to become institution requires equal progress involved in Student Government so in its dormitory life. Smith ex­essential and we have been given 
that all we have worked for-all the opportunity to have a voice on
pressed that she has "gained the the years of striving for change­necessary working knowledge of these decisions. St. Mary's is will not go down the drain." changing and must continue to do
the intricacies of change within Albosta feels that the wide range of duties of Student Affairs Corn­missioner are most closely allied to the student body. "I have had a year's experience on the Student Assembly which has given me insights into the problems and the difficulties encountered within 
Hundreds ol American students placed in RECOGNIZED OVERSEAS MEDICAL SCHOOLS through Euromed 1 
For the session starting July, 1974, Euromed will assist qualified Amer· ican students in gaining admission to recognized overseas medical schools. 
And that's just the beginning. 
Since the language barrier constitutes the preponderate difficulty in succeed· ing at a foreign school, the Euromed program also includes an intensive 12·16 week medical and conversa. tiona! language course, mandatory for all students. Five hours daily, 5 days per week (12·16 weeks) the course is given in the country where the student will attend medical school. 
In addition, Euromed provides stu· dents with a 12·16 week intensive cui· tural orientation program, with Amer· lean students now studying medicine in that particular country serving as counselors. 
Senior or traduate students currently enrolled in an A11erican university are eli&ible to participate in tile Euromed pro&ram. 
For application and further information, phone toll free: 
(800) E45-1234 

in New York State phone: 
(516) 746-2380 

or write, 
Euromed, Ltd. 
170 Old Country Road 
Mineola. N.Y. 11501 
so." 

SATURDAY APRIL 6th 
Tickets now on sale at Student Union Ticket Office and at the dining halls. 


Pass the Jug. Pour the Jug. Jug-a-lug. 
Jug is the Great American Folk Wine. In Apple or Strawberry Glen. Full of the crisp cold bite of fresh-picked country apples or sweet juicy 
Please send me posters,
strawberries. I
for which I have enclosed $ ___ 
I

When you finish a jug ofJug, you can put a 
Send my poster to: I
candle or daisies in it for a romantic meal. Or blow 
I 

your favorite tune on it. 1
Nwme___________~--~--------------­
please print

Enough sell. You want a Great American Poster? I
.Address________________________ 
I

Send us just $1.00. Our Great American.Poster 
I 

measures 24" x 26". Resplendent in full color. 
City State Zip I
Complete with painted-on frame. 
Offer good until February 1st, 1975. Void if restriCted or for-1If you're decorating your room in American bidden by law. Available only in U.S.A. Please allow 4 weeks for 
1 

Gothic, it will fit right in. Get yours fast for a mere delivery. Poster Guarantee: Ifyou receive a damaged poster, sim-I ply return it to the above address and you will receive a new one. I
$1.00 (no stamps please) before we run out. 
L----~-------------~-------~ 
the observer Thursday, April 4, 1974 
Irish dump Illini in home opener 
by \Jill Delaney 

Coach Tom Fallon and his Irish 
tennis team · battled the wind and 
a strong Illinois team Tuesday, 
and came out on top on both ac­
counts as the Irish defeated lllinois 
7-2 in their home opener at the 
Courtney Tennis Center. 
Despite a two-week layoff, key performances by Chris Kane and Brandon Walsh sparked the Irish with straight-set victories over the Illini. In doubles competition, the team of Kane-Walsh defeated Kevin Kelso and Kevin Morrey 4­6,6-4,6-3. 
"We were worried about the weather, but the ability to go in­doors to play a match greatly helps us" said Fallon. "The wind actually helps the players in their concentration on their play, by being alert to the last possible second." 
Brandon Walsh, senior captain from Jamaica, easily handle Morrey from Illinois, with a consistently strong forehand and a more than adequate backhand. 
"Brandon was not that aggressive in his past years on the team" noted Fallon, "but this year he has taken over, and his confidence has considerably helped him to im­prove." 

The Irish travel to Valparaiso today in a three o'clock match, and return to Notre Dame for a Monday match versus Purdue. With a schedule that includes Michigan, Ohio State and Indiana, Coach Fallon concedes that the year will be tough, but the coach of the Irish netters for the past 17 years feels his team can hold his own against anybody. 
Singles: Kelso (I) de£. Slager <ND), 4-6, 6-4, 6-2 Kane <NDJ de£. Hummel (1), 7-5,6­
4 

Walsh (ND> de£. Morrey (1), 6-4,6­
1 Amaya (I) def. Stehlik <ND>, 6-3, 6­
4 . 

Carrico <ND) def. Franks (1), 6-2, 6-1 
J. Inchauste <ND> de£. Minkus (1), 7-5. 6-3 Doubles: Kane, Walsh <ND> def. Kelso, Morrey (1), 2-6, 6-3, 6-1 Carrico, Stehlik <ND> def. Franks, Amaya (I), 6-3, 6-4 
J. Inchauste, R.. lnchauste <ND) tlnseasonably warm weather aided the Irish tennis team last Tuesday as they won their 
def. Hummel, Mmkus (1), 6-2, 6-3 home opl"ner against Illinois·. 
Greg Corganf:=:=:=:=:::======================================================================================================================================================================:=:=======~======: 
The Irish Eye 

While wars wage elsewhere, NFL against WFL, 
NBA against ABA, WHA against WHL against NHL, 
Israelis against Syrians, baseball approaches a 
rather peaceful start to its 1974 season. 
Well, at least relatively. 
With the exception of the Bowie Kuhn-Henry Aaron skirmish, the increased displeasure over the use of a cowhide rather than horsehide ("horse shortage") baseball, the shuffling and reshuffling of disgruntled players and managers, most has remained quiet or. the Eastern and Western fronts. 
But all that will change tomorrow when the first of the 1,944 battles leading up to the famed best of seven game war begins with the opening of Major League Baseball-1974 American League East: 
Baltimore-The O's finally decided to stop did­
dlingaround in August of last season and proceeded to 
capture the AL East walking away. This season they 
may do it in May. 
The pitching !itaff is awesome. Jim Palmer, Dave 
McNally, Mike Cuellar, Doyle Alexander all return, 
and with the addition of ex-Red Ross Grimsley the 
Birds are sitting pretty. ' 
Catcher Earl Williams, DH Tommy Davis and most notably first-baseman Boog Powell are ah out bet~er their '73 performances while regulars Paul Bla1~, Don B.aylor, Rich Coggins, and AI Bumbry, last years Rookie of the Year provide speed and talent in the outfield. 
The trio of Bobby Grich at second, Mark Belanger 
at shortstop, and Brooks Robinson at third has no 
fielding equal. The Birds are a safe bet. 
1\ew York-The Yankees move to Shea Stadium where certainly Bobby Murcer, Thurman Munson, Ron Blomberg , and Craig Nettles should prosper. 
The pitching staff must make a comeback however most notably Mel Stottlemyre, and Fritz Peterson,' and the atrocious defense, which led the league in errors, must necessarily be shored up. If so and that's a big IF, the Yankees could give Baltim~re a run for their money. 
Boston-The Bosox virtually realigned their pit­ching staff with the acquisition of Juan Marichal, Rick Wise, Reggie Cleveland, and Dick Drago. However, this won't do it. 
Carlton Fisk is overrated, Carl Yastrzemski is overpaid, Rico Petrocelli is overemotional and Doug Griffin is overwhelmed by the absence of a proven shortstop. If the Beantowners finish third, they'll be lucky. 
1\lilwaukee-Youth and enthusiasm help, but they don't win ball games.The Brewers have both plus some solid ballplayers ing George Scott, Dave May ,Don Money, and Ken Berry. The mound staff is shaky at best despite the addition of Clyde Wright. Milwaukee has forth place sown up. 
Detroit-The usual analysis that follows the Tigers from preseason to preseason will finally catch up; with them this year .They're just too old . AI Kaline and Norm Cash are 39, Gates Brown, Woodie Fryman, and Jim Northrup are 34, Mickey Lolich is 33, Bill Freehan and Ed Brinkmanare both 32, and that's not to mention Willie Horton 
Cleveland-The Indians should move fast this year, right down to the International League. 
The American League West: 
The AL West, home of that "perfect" team and World Champion Oakland A's, could prove to be the most interesting division to keep a watchful eye upon. That is, if the A's curl up and die. Come October, the line-up should look something like this. 
Oakland--The Athletics have, remarkably enough, combined success with dissatisfaction. 
The A's have three 20-game winners intheir 
starting mound rotation, Catfish Hunter, Ken Holt­
zman and Vida Blue with John (Blue Moon) Odom 
and Dave Ham~lton waiting should any if· the top men 
fa.Iter. The relief corps is just as menacing. Rollie 
Fmgers, Darold Knowles, Paul Linblad and Bob 
Locker are superb. 
Elsewhere, the outfield of Joe Rudi, Bill North, and 
Reggie Jackson is as solid as they come. Jackson 
~as time and again proved that he deserved last 
year's Most Valuable Player award. The infield has 
Gene Tenace at first, Dick Green at second Bert 
Campaneris at shortstop, and Sal Bando at third. 
Ray Fosse, anexpert defensive catcher, is more than 
adequate behind the Plate. 
Chicago-Pitching is the big question for the Sox. They without a doubt have the big guns, especially with the addition of former neighbor Ron Santo. Furthermore, a healthy Dick Allen, Ken Henderson, and Bill Melton and Carlos May combine to give the Windy City's AL representatives a potent offensive attack. 
The mound staff is underpopulated although Wilbur Wood and Stan Bahnsen teamed for 90 of the White Sox 162 starts last year. Jim Kaat was picked up form the Twins, but he's over the hill, and Bill Moran from the Royals is unproven. Chicago will need a lot of hitting to be a contender in the AL West, but i it's 
not outof the question. 
Kansas City-The Royals are the Cinderella team of the division. They have the potential, as far as that will get you, but they also have a good manager in Jack McKeonwho is accustomed to getting the most out of his players. 
The Royals picked up Vada Pinson from the Angels thiswinter to complement the likes of John Mayberry, Amos Otis, Cookie Rojas andFreddyPatek. They also picked up Nelson Briles from the Pirates and he will giveadded stability to an inconsistent pitching staff. 
Kansas City could seriously make a run at the flag, and if they combine their hitting from last season with much better defense and improved pitching, Oakland, and Chicago will be singing the blues. 
California-The Angels are hopelessly quagmired in a situation in which they have excellent pitching <Nolan Ryan, Bill Singer, Rudy May) and zero hit­ting. Ellie Rodriguez has been acquired to handle the catching chores although his offensive skills leave a little to be desired. Frank Robinson Bob Oliver a healthy Bobby Valentine, and a re]uvinated Mlke Epstein would help, but from here the Angels don't stand a snowball's chance ... 
Minnesota-11 the Twins could get rid of their morale boosting owner Calvin Griffith they might finish third. At this rate only the Texas Rangers will keep them out of last. 
Texas-They're just the Washington Senators moved to Arlington Texas, with or without Billy Martin. 
The Playhouse 
525 N. Hill 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
-

·-­FOR SALE The MINI-MEAL served at 
--MR-QUICK on State Route 23 Top Of the line Sonyo quad as a bargain. You get a receiver JUC disc Cheeseburger, golden french demodulator, 4 speekers, plays fries, Pepsi and mouth discrete, regular Matrix and watering fruit pie for only 90 SQ. Must sell $550 or best offer. cent~·-­
Call Ed 1506 Logan Volanteers: Saturday "----Rec. 9-11:30 a.m. Very. im-Pioneer SX 828 and Pioneer SA-oortant meetinq following. 500A amp ph. 1487 
-----WANTED Selling my personal stereo --­equipment. New Marantz 4­
Needed 2 housemates for house on St. Peter. Call 1058 or 6863.

channel receiver and Metrotech Decoder and other 2 Versitile cartoonist to work on 
and 4 channel items. Call 287­Point Counterpoint page. Call 
7818 
Observer any night. 7471 

Black and White T.V.: Sears 2 Ride needed to Texas April 5. yrs. old, 19 inch. $60. $$ Call Gilbert 1217. Black and White T.V.: RCA Solid State 1' 2 yrs. old, 19 inch, Riders wanted: Louisiana area $60, stand included. Ca II 287-9785.
April 6. Desk: Solid Pine, large free wood bookcase, $25 Ride needed to Northcentral Double bed: 1'2 yrs. Old, New Jersey for Spring Break. Simmons extra-firm mattress. Leave anytime. Call Val. 8159. 
Wood headboard (available s. 15), $75. Call 287-1178 
PERSONALS 
Bring back Riele. 
FINAL NOTICE: SMC Summer program in London, travel in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Paris. May 20 lo June 20. 9 credits. $795 plus tuition. $50 deposit must pay by April 10. Prof. A.R. Black 284­4948 
NOTICES 
TICKETS FOR THIS SATURDAY'S ARMORY PARTY ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUCENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LA FORTUNE, FROM L5 DAILY. TICKETS ARE $2.50 IN ADVANCE. 
Political Sci. and History sale at Pandora's Books. March 31 to April 6. 5(1 pP.r cent off used books. Spec;~ 5 cent box. 
JUNIORS!! Return your yearbook proofs now. Room 2­C La Fortune (same place as photographed) Monday Friday, 10-5. 
Ride back from Buffalo after Break and back after An Tostal. Call Mike 3305. 
Need ride to New Jersey. can leave Tuesday night. Call Mike 2187. 
Riders needed: Wext on 1 80 to Iowa City. Leaving the lOth. Call 6416. 
Ride wanted to Conneticut area Wednesday or Thursday. Call 232-2110. 
Students with Giganlhugeuous appetites. Have you tried the $1.40 MAXI-MEAL at MR. QUICK on State Route 23? Includes our giant Texasburger, golden french fries, creamy shake and fruit pie. 
LOST 
Lost: Seiko watch last week. Call 8639. 
Lost: Brown wallet at 6:30 show of Godfather Monday night. Reward offered. Call Dave. 8405. 
Lost: Black wallet. 
URGENT!! Lost Wednesday behind Bookstore. Call 1044. 








