, 
On The Inside 
COUP finale 
... page 3 
Model lease 
... page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, February 6, 1974

Vol. VIII,JN~o~·2723----------------------~::~~~_:~:_~~.:~----------------~------------------------====~:::::::::::::::::::---­

HPC discusses housing problem 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
The campus housing problem was discussed at a meeting of the Hall Presidents Council last night in LaFortune Student Center. 
HPC Chairman Pat McLaughlin read the letter sent by the HPC to University administrators criticizing ~e administration's handling of the campus overcrowding issue. 
A suggestion was made that University trustees be sent copies of the letter. McLaughlin told the council he expects a response to the letter from Dr. Faccenda within a week. 
Alumni Hall President Phil Byrne repeated an earlier proposal that the admisssions information s~nt to high school seniors should warn prospective students that after two years of guaranteed on-campus housing they may be forced to live off-campus. 
Byrne reported that he is having difficulties in neeting with Admissions Director John Goldrick to select the proper wording of the warning. 
"Actually, I think the wording is an issue the Ad­r.,issions Office should be able to handle without our help," Byrne stated. . . 
In other HPC business, Student Government off1c1al Jim Roe asked Hall Presidents to forfeit extra Co-ex r.'eal tickets in order for students working at St. Mary's to be insured tickets to eat in the SMC 
Dining Hall. Roe also urged HPC members to enlist hall suppport for a February 7 meeting of Muscular. Dystrophy fund drive workers. The 7 p.m. meeting will be in the LaFortune Admphitheater. The area American Cancer Society gave a brief presentation and discussed the strategy of their up­coming campus fund drive. The HPC will meet again next week in the LaFortune Fiesta Lounge. 
lllftiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Vacation extension approved for SMC 
Dr. William A. Hickey, St. Mary's vice president for academic affairs, announced today that the Ad­r.linistrative Council of the College has boted to ap­
. prove a one-day extension of mid semester vacation for the present semester. Classes will now resume on Tuesday, Mach 19. 
This extension was approved in order to alleviate the anticipated travel difficulties due to 'Sunday closing of service stations. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIII Farley (left) and Alumni {right) shared 1st price honors in the Mardi Gras Booth contest. 


HPC sends letter to Dr. Faccenda 


crowding it may be necessary to university could do. However weby Tom Kruczek construct living facilities or ex-would like to see a legal housingStaff Reporter pand the existing ones. The letteer counseling center for advice, and 
went on to add that "the Notre the existence of this alone might be 
In a surprise move by the Hall Dame community is no community enough to prevent landlords from Presidents Council, Pat at all if we must use lilUch cramped! gouging the students. If there are McLaughlin, chairman of the facilities. Overcrowding has just legitimate complaints," council, and Walter Gasior, become the scapegoat for our lack McLaughlin continued "the kids executive coordinator, sent a letter of reasonable facilities." are unable to take the landlords to to Dr. Philip Faccenda, vice court, because of lack of moneypresident for student affairs, The letter also raised issue witt. and they need help." suggesting ways that might help the lack of a university subsidy for It was also mentioned that in the ease the present rooming crunch at bus transportation for off-campus future, admission booklets sent to Notre Dame. students and for the lack of an off. high school students who are 
McLaughlin and Gasior both campus food co-op. thinking of attendint the university commented after the HPC meeting But the main emphasis centers should include the fact that the on Tuesday night that the letter on the problem with high rents. student may not find housing on' was not supposed to be an end-all McLaughlin said last year when campus for four years. to the overcrowding, but that it the HPC checked with university McLaughlin said, "I don't think could be a step in the right officials on what could be done td that the letter was harsh, we were direction. In the letter that was landlords who are gouging the just firm, and made no outrageous sent to six members of the ad-students "officials said that since suggestions. We do not want to ministration who figure directly in the rented property was privatE!! sound like we are condemning the student housing, it was suggested and was owned by. the landlords" people involved with problems of that to relieve some of the over-. there was nothing that the· housing. We admit that the lottery 
suggested by Father Mulcahy is as fair as can be at this time and in this situation. We realize that this letter is not a solution to all of the problems; we realize that to solve all of the problems it will take time to think and research the entire problem. All we want the university to do is not to let it be a dead end. Instead, we would like them to try to work around the problems to get to the final end. We would like them to seek solutions to the problems that they may encounter." . 
McLaughlin and Gasior both added that this letter is merely to suggest and to indicate that they are displeased with what is going on in connection with off-campus housing. Gasior stated, "I'm afraid that this lottery has created a panic among the .s!udents. It seems quite possible that there wil be empty beds by the time we pick 
rooms. Students seem to have accepted the fact that their stay on campus will last only two, possibly three years. This lack of up­perclassmen will tend to 
' 
deteriorate the quality of hall life jat Notre Dame." 
1
McLaughlin also was upset with the fact that this year no students 
l
were consulted in connection with decisions for housing at Notre 
Dame. Dr. Faccenda, to whom the letter 
j
was addressed, refrained from comment until "I've had a chance to digest the letter and formulate a reply, which may be sometime 1 Wednesday or Thursday." 
Gasior summed up the feelings of the HPC. "Since residentiality is a priority of the university, the housing problem must be re­evaluated, or it will deteriorate the quality of hall life and residen­Uality," he said. 
·----------------~----,_---~----------------~ -----­
l the observer Wednesday, February 6, 1974 
rr---·-~..;...___._.._,__-._.·-·__._.. __......_v.· See page 6 for model rental agreement 
r 
I 
I 
I 
' 
r 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
r 
warld 

briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-President Nixon will not 

resign  even  if  impeached  by  the  House  of  
Representatives,. his  son-in­ law  David  
Eisenhowersaid Tuesday. 

"1 don't think there is the faintest possibility of him resigning under any circumstance, and impeachment is just not going to happen," Eisenhower said in a talk with t·eporters. 
It was the first indication from any White House intimate that Nixon has already made up his mind to 1-'0 through a Senate trial on .ihpeachment brought by 
•he House rather than resign to avoid a possibly divisive influence on the public. 
BERKELEY, CALIF. (UPI)-Newspaper publisher Randolph _A. Hearst pleaded Tuesday for the safe t·eturn of ~Is 19_-yea;, old daughter, who was kidnapped Monday mght m a commando-like raid" by two men who dt:a~ged her screaming from her apartment. 
PatnciB: Hea;st, a sop~omo_re and art history major at the Umvers1ty of Cahforma, was hauled from her apartment near the campus and dumped in the trunk of a car. Witnesses said the two abductors armed with rifles ~w shot~uns fired several shots ~s they sped away m the car. 
an campus taday 

12:15 p.m.--seminar, "immune responses in an australian marsupial. the quokka (setonlc brachyrus)", by dr. robert b. ashman, room 102, lobund lab 
7:00 
p.m.--film, "battle of algiers," sponsored by black studies, eng. aud. 

7:00 
p.m.--fun, mardi gras, stepan center, .50 


7:30 p.m.--lecture, "american-israeli relations after the yom kippur war" by prof. howard dooley, carroll hall, smc 
8:00 p.m.--lecture. "bugbear of fate" by donald c. williams, new biology bldg. auc. 
8: 15 p.m.--recital, anthony spano, clarinet, william cerno, piano, lib. aud. 
6:30 p.m.--film and meeting, "1970 america cup faces," nd sailing club, rm. 204 o'shag 
7:00 p.m.--meeting, flying irish club, rm. 119 o'shag 

* live music by the Mark Bloom Band no cover charge 


"• I '1', 

•• , • J I I 't .. t I\' ~~. ·.. ~ ··• '/,_' '.,···.i'~·./ 
• .......,.,~ 1 ·~.-.......... 
_ 

Housing prepares 1nodel lease 
by William Murphy 
Staff Reporter 
AI model lease has been prepared by the Student Housing office to help students looking for off­campus housing next year. 
The Housing Office stated that the lease has been prepared with the special needs of the students in r.1ind. The office of Student Mfairs has endorsed the model lease as "a reasonable document that students can use.'' 
The Housing Office suggested that students prepare a copy of the model lease to offer their landlord wh_en the time arrives to sign a wntten agreement. Fr. James Shill~, dir~ctor of off .-campus housmg, pomted out that tis is a tenat_'s lease w_hich landlords may not fmd to then· complete liking. "It is possible", said Shilts, "to work to~ard a compromise, insrt the revised language into the document and have both parties initial the addendum. It then becomes part of the lease." 
Off-campus renters, according t~ the Housing Office, can expect to fmd clauses in any lease given them which resemble the tenant responsibilities spelled out in this model. Important clauses each renter shuld try to have included in the leases are: amount of rent payment dates, guest policies, any expected codes of behavior responsibility for repair ~nd r-'aintainence, and consideration for utilities. The Housing Office stated that some tenants may also be required to: : 
1. 
Repair the prmises at his own expense 

2. 
Fee for delinquent rent payment 

3. 
Sublet only as the landlord permits 

4. 
Have guests only with landlordls permission 

5. 
Bear cost of all damages . 6~ Pay landord's attorney feees many case 


The Housing Office stated that mose of these stipulations are reasonable, although they are not to the renter's advantage. The 
last: two, according to the Office, do not seem at all fair, and they recomend that the renter try to negotiate against these terms. 
Item 12 of the model lease refers to the attached exhibits. The Housing Office suggests that A and B ought to list the furnishings included in the rental if the property is furnished. They should also list the damages and defects present when the renter takes over the property. "A list of damages at the beginning of the rental may be necessary in arguing for the full return of the damage deposit at the end of the year." The exhibits should be initialed by each party to the agreement. 
"About one half of the South 
Bend land.lords," said Shilts, 
"prefer to rent to students without 
a lease. Perhaps most of these 
wish to say they can be trusted and 
rhat they trust students. Without 
questioning the value and trust 
between landlord and tenant the 
Student Housing Office suggests 
that such a complicated 
agreement as a property rental 
should be written and signed, if 
only to prevent the misum­
derstandings which inevitably 
come up." 
In an article appearing in 
Tuesday's Observer, Shilts 
reminded students the the 26th 
APendment r-1akes all stuents 
The_ Observer Is publiShed dally dur1ng the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. _Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. second etas~ postage paid, Notre Dame lnd 
46556. • . 

over 18 personally reponsible for a contractual greeement. The Observer, contacted the Notre Dame Legal Aid organization which stated that they would b~ willing to help any student who is having a legal problem with a rental agreement. Students who wish assistance should call 7795 between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
The Housing Office sated that they thought the model lease was simple and understandable and that it should provide a starting point for negotiations between renters and landlords. 


Music by Fisher 

John F. Fisher, a member of the r.1usic department faculty at Saint Mary's wit! perform a recital of piano r.,usic Thursday at 8:15p.m. in the College's Little Theatre. 
A native_ of Washington, D.C., Fisher received both his bachelor's and Paster's degrees in music from . Indiana University, Bloomington. He currently reac~es classes in piano, bassoon, ~" us1c t henry, counterpoint, and Jazz, folk, and rock music at the College. 
SUMMER JOBS 
Guys & Gals needed for summer 
employment at National Parks 
Private Camps, Dude Ranches and 
Resorts throughout the nation. Over 50,000 students aided each year. For FREE information on student assistance program send self-addressed STAMPED enve­lope to Opportunity Research, Dept. SJO, 55 Flathead Drive Kalispell, MT 59901. ' ....YOU ML;ST APPLY EARLY.... 
THIS STUDENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

Now in progress ... our annual 




SALE 

of Shirts, Sweaters, Suits, 
Sportcoats and Outercoats 
If you en joy the fit and feel of fine ~nivers~ty-styled apparel, and you lt~e savmg money, too, ... this is your ktnd of sale! We're stocked with se~ation?l apparel values during 
thts ~enume opportunity to save. Stop tn, look us over. Soon? 
Ask about our 


EXTENDED TERMS 
Nothing could be easier. 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
.. . ~ : . , ~ .' 

\ •. 
' 

••• ·1,. . , .,.. . • ,. •,. •••·· I' f, • ' ' tl 
.,....,_~ •• • • .,. -e.. •.. ~ ~ ~. ~-" • "· ~-01. " ... c. ., • "' ., ,_ • • • • • • :., •, w. • A, '· ' 1 '.tt • • .• ! , .' -.• .... , ~· .~ •' •9 .' ..' .1 ~ -.~ .. •· _. · ,/ _. ... ~ • .......• • . • • • • • • • " ' ." _, _r • ! . • .... • ... ,t 

........... ······· ... • ,.·\ ... i '.••,., ~ ' .. ' ,• 
Wednesday, Ft!bruary 6, 1974
. . . . . I '· the observer 
3 

COUP urges new renewal effort 
by Tom Drape 
News Editor Ed. Note: In the pastnineissues, the Observer has presented the reports of the Committee on Univesity Priorities <COUP> in an attempt to familiarize the Notre Dame community with their fin­dings. The final article of the series considers the conclusions of the Committee as a whole. 
The Committee on University Priorities, in submitting their recommndations to Father Hesburgh, has attempted to usher Notre Dame in a new effort of renewal. Their aim, as stated in the report, is "that our recom­mendations will, as endorsed, be adopted by the administration or be submitted to appropriate bodies for their decisions." 
In their conclusion, the Com­mittee embraced Notre Dame's Catholic tradition•l' Pointing to the desire for tearmng and the com­Punity life, they note "a belief that there is more to both than meets the eye." They further declare the advantage that Catholicism h~s added to the University as seen m the faculty and students. 
The use of resources was identified by the committee as in need of significant change Ad­vising against any substantial growth of the student body. , the committee also suggested a decrease in construction. The need to strengthen the endowment was instead pinpointed for financial 1·esources. As their report stated, "as a stay against inflation as well as a permanent source of financial aid for de~erving students and of 
improved  compensation  for  
faculty."  
Admission of more women  and  

~1en1bers of underrepresented ethnic minorities were suggested bv the con1111ittee as goals to be achieved for a stabilized student body. "Intellect and character, 
1. That the University continue its'

not money, should open our doors," concluded the committee. 
traditional commitment to 'life on campus we see as a cause 
freedom of inquiry and of the best of Notre Dame's ef­
thought. fects," stated the reports findings 
2. That the University have a · faculty and student affairswhich added that residentiality 


should be made available as reasonably as possible, to every undergraduate who desires it. 
The Committee described ad­vanced studies at Notre Dame as "well-provided" yet in need of 
attention. Although displaying the 
professionalism and distinction of 
Notre Dame, they recommend an 
increase in financial aid and a 
higher standard of academic 
excellence. 

In presenting their recom­mendations with respect to the faculty, the committee termed the relationship between the faculty and the University as a "curious tension". Qualifying the type of scholar sought as possessing "an unusually strong commitment to the commitment to the im­provement of students," they recognized the need for more competitive compensation. A need for more useful evaluation of teaching was also recommended by the committee. 
Reviewing scholarly research, 
the committee's findings con­
cluded an uneven pursuance in 
different sectors of the University. 
Concluding that certain 
recommendations were in need of 
special emphasis, the committee 
singled out the following in order of 
importance: staff among whom committed Catholics predominate. 
3. 
That the University's en­dowment have the highest priority in the allocation of unrestricted income. 

4. 
That the University and its colleges encourage depart­mental initiatives in teaching, including designation of ap­propriate persons whose task would be to support good teachers and help others to become such. 

5. 
That the University recognize that it must apply its resources in such a way as to increase excellence in all its disciplines, including those which now enjoy academic distinction. 

6. 
That the University's library book budget be increased significantly and that an en­dowment specifically restricted to purchases of books, periodicals and related learning materials be set up, not as a subsitute for the book budget but as a supplement to it. 

7. 
That the University's advanced programs concentrate on in1proven1ent through greater selectivity in enrollment, and that within the next five years 



each advanced studies unit renovation and construction undertake a self-study, ac­and present solutions for the cording to a schedule set up by improvement of the campusthe vice president for Ad­environment, !including those vanced Studies. centering on preventive
8. 
That the University eliminate maintenance. overcrowding in residence halls and study specific ways of enhancing the intellectual role of the rector, possibly through formal and informal educa tiona! programs in­volving hall staffs and faculty. 

9. 
That the University establish a temporary committee of outside consultants , charged specifically with deter­rnination and assessment of needs, use and controlled growth of an optimal coni­puler configuration for the campus. 

10. 
That the University institute a procedure for long-range planning, perhaps through a committee charged with rating the relative importance of its physical needs by means of a continual, regular review of the functioning and maintenance of campus buildings and grounds. This group would also receive and approve all requests for major 



Duke Law School 
Interviews 

Saturday, February 9, 9:00 am -12:00 noon 
All Invited 

For sign-ups see Pre-Law Society Bulletin Board outside Room 101 O'Shaughnessy 

Celebrate your 
/V\ardi Gras winnings (or console your losings) at 



Nickie's 
3: -12 oz. cans Old Milwaukee $1.00 (12-12) 
DON'T FORGET FREE POOL 2 -6 PM 
Truckers reject Nixon freeze 
WASHINGTON (UPI(-­Independent trucker represen­tatives rejected as inadequate Tuesday night a diesel fuel price freeze ordered only a few hours earlier by President Nixon, and called on drivers to continue their coast to coast strike. 
William Hill, a member of the Truckers Unity Committee, told a news conference: "We are not a temporary freeze in retail diesel satisfied by the statement made by fuel prices at truck stops to en­Mr. Simon today and we are courageeindependent truckers to issuing a counter-statement... end their six-day-old work stop­
"We are recommending that the page. drivers continue to stand down and 
At the same time the Justice not go back to work." Department announced it was Late Tuesday afternoon Federal 
ordering a strict watch for federal Energy Director William E. Simon 
law violations in the violence­announced that Nixon had ordered marred strike. 

Now is the time to take time .... 
Retreat Weekend 

Fr. Dave Burrell, CSC 
Make reservations at Campus Ministry Office (103 Lib or ca II 6536 for more information... (Talk a friend into taking time)· 
Student Union ln~vites You To 


ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11·18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
1/2 day yacht cruise on Acapulco ·Bay, wlth open bar 

* 
Baggage handling & transportation to & from 


1Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
Reservations now being taken at SU Ticket Office Total payment of $270 due by February 14 {Vale~t.i~.~·-~ .l?.ay)... '· · · · · · Quest.ions • .call Svveen at 3669 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager Jerry Lutkus 

Dan Barrett

Editor-in-Chief 
Executive Editor 

NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos 

EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
Advertising Manager

BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Wednesday, February 6, 1974 
Assist the Exiles 
Today The Observer is reprinting the questionnaire that appeared in Monday's edition of the paper. The reason for the reprinting is a simple one--response to the poll has been slow. 
The questionnaire is directed at present off-campus residents for the purpose of assisting a sizable number of shell-shocked students now suddenly confronted with the task or re-locating themselves for the fall semester. It is a viable opportunity for the student members of the Notre Dame community to rely on their own peers' imput of assistance. 
It is becoming increasingly obvious that they will receive none from the University. 
The poll originated out of two students' frustration with their attempts at receiving information from the Off­Campus Housing Office. Their queries about cost, locations, and other pertinent data about town living were met with no response. They claimed the the Office director, Father Shilts, was completely ignorant of any facts relating to the questions appearing on the poll. 
The course of action was obvious. Do it yourself. If the students want in­formation on Off-Campus living, then the students should collect it. Claims that a poll would be released in the spring by that office obviously, and rightly, offered little solace to those faced with the competitive nature of house-finding in South Bend. 
And so we have the poll. We have another case of the students at Notre Dame picking up where the ad­ministration leaves off. And out of necessity, there is little choice but for the students to respond to this poll favorably. After all. the only people hurt by a poor 
I LIKED lllAT PART 
ABOUT m£ HUGE 
EMPL{7{MENTINCIIDSE.1 

;5@ ~~ 
5/Rt, THE!<£ ARE f1 "' MANY CONSI/MERS WHO HU THAT YOI/R mER6Y PRIORITY RAT!N6 5YST&M 
OISCRIMINAT£5 AGAINST THE CAN YOtJ 9'EAK TO 


response are the students themselves. Those living off-campus this year can appreciate the potential exiles' dilemma. It's no skin off the administration's back. We have no choice but to respond in numbers to the poll. 
But it's about time things changed in that 0-C office. It's about time that the promises of an effective arm for the off­campus student that were made last spring are kept. It's about time that off­campus students who are in need of help can find it. 
The University is making it all too clear that a deplorable off-campus situation is a good one. As long as it's difficult to find housing, deal with landlords and find transportation to campus, then on­cam!,lUS housing will stay in demand. 
Once again our sense of Christian responsibility for all those we so blatantly advertise as part of the "community" falls victim to the dollar sign. As far as the off-campus student is concerned, he should realize that his difficulties are contributing to the financial stability of Notre Dame. Our catalogues should more correctly invite high school seniors to come joint the "Christian Business" at Notre Dame. 
It's time to activate the Off-Campus office, or time to shut it down. But it's time to stop pretending that the University has any concern for the off­campus student. The University's responsibility, morally if not legally, should not end with the release of "the lottery." Those exiled are still a part, are they not? 
For now, students, turn in the polls. Let's demonstrate that there is concern for those pained with relocating. Right now, these people need our help.
-Butch Ward 
I LOVED TilAT PART ABOUT 
MY MONEY BUYING 
MORE 1HAN EVER IN 
/ HISTORY! 

I llKED 'ffiE PART WHERE I 


SAID I WOULD FINISH 
MY TERM/ 
·~ 

Opinion 
The Role of the Cog 
denis william krill 
Having read Mr. Byron King's remarks (appearing under the title A Different Opinion-An Open Letter, Observer,, January 31, 1974) with nuch interest to say the least, I am impelled to return the volley of his wit with some comments of a slightly different-and hopefully more clarifying --tenor. 
I must convey my dismay first, though, at the thought of calling Mr. King's remarks of a "Different Opinion;" for though his words appear to eschew one position they do so only half-heartedly (if indeed that nuch) and to think that his attempts can be thought of as artful cynicism--by anyone--is harrowing. 
It would be far more revolting, however, to think that Mr. Byron King's remarks are adequately characteristic of those who would rally about him in their position on the so called "Dillon Hall Incident" of last year. Indeed if the University cannot stir a more astute voice than that of the now published Mr. King's one should be seriously led to speculate on the merit of the educative endeavor occuring at Notre Dame. 
I, for one,.do ~ot suspect such intellectual bankruptcy on the part of the Umverstty; tf, however, another such opinion was voiced and Mr. King's published in deference to it, the Observer has my pity. 
I cannot, I'm sorry to say, offer excuses on various methods one Pight ~mploy to inter~·upt c?itus as Mr. King so eloquently does, even tf, to Ius personal sahsfachon, he has pl'Oven his own hand to have several useful functions. 
My comPents, in fact, cannot offer to clarify any ambiguity of sexual mm·ality vis-a-vis parietal violations at all. To debate on such a level would not be worthy of this effort nor the most useful function of this particular forum. Furthermore, to formulate defense against the University's guidelines of human sexuality is to completely miss the focal point about which the events of last semester at Dillon Hall are centered. Yet this is precisely what Mr. Byron King has done-and Post of those whose winded words have filled much of the Observer's Post recent editm·ial segmentation. 
This Pistaken argumentation is, in fact, the reason for my writing you today. · 
To imagine that injustice or inequity lies within the ruling given by Mr. John Macheca m· similarly in the method of Rev. James Burt­chaell--or, for that matter, with the judgement rendered by the ad­judicating Board to whom the student chose to decide his case-is wholly r.1isleading, though frequent reasoning among the student body. 
One does not come to Notre Dame because of force or pressure; he comes here by exercising his freedom upon invitation to do so. Ac­ceptance here is both special and discriminatory--from literally thousands. This is one of the reasons Notre Dame may rightly be thought of as distinguished from hundreds of colleges and universiti~ 1hrnughout the world. 
The specialness of Notre Dame, however, continues only in as much as the people who inhabit its borders insist it is. For this reason to come to Notre Dame implies reciprocal commitment on the part of the applicant. And not only implies but demands if this place is to retain its specialness. As such, this clearly dictates that the student, once accepting Notre Dame, takes not only the University but the values it chooses to emasculate beyond all others as well--regardlesss of whether or not he believes them to be the values of his best judgement. 
These are as clear as the Student Manual each student is given upon 1 egistration. <One of which specifically draws a line on the hours a student may have a friend of the opposite sex in his dormitory room.) 
This is a special place. That fact makes for proud contentment and often discomfor t as well, because it demands specialness on the part of each person within if it is to remain special. For one accustomed to live t·esponsibly, preserving the University's specialness is no great 1 ask; he naturally responds to the situations which are in need of his attention--from helping the Freshman with an impossible Emil problem to picking up a discarded Budweiser can from the hall. But when it has been one's custom to live differently--to exist as merely student or resident--such an atmosphere is disconcerting for him, as if the r.1achine is hopelessly irregular and can't integrate the cog of his self. Yet it is not the machine which is irregular, but, predictably, he that refuses to grin and bear the rules like all the other cogs. 
The real injustice, I suspect then, lies not with the rule here, but precisely at the point when someone breaks it in spite of its existence. My hunch is that the inequity Mr. King is so vehemently concerned with lies not, as he perceives it, in the immorality of the rule, but in the situation in which some may be excused and some not. The real inadequacy lies with everyone--from Rector to Resident--who silently approves of someone spiting what the University has said to be the rule concerning parietal hours and human sexuality. 
The rule, as I see it, is clear enough even for Mr. King to understand. It is stated in the Student Manual each of us received upon accepting the invitation to come to this place. 
To argue the adequacy of the University's rules is admittedly quite another matter. It has been my purpose--as much as it has been Mr. King's to the contrary--not to debate their value. Such debate, I have argued, is as misleading as the irregular cog who grinds pitifully away in the overbearing machine. Far better for us cogs, I expect, to be the ones that could rather than those who cried they wouldn't. 
daanesbury 
~:~arry trude~u 

WHAT  the observer  
1H£  
HEL-L ...'?  Nite Editor:  Albert D'Antonio  
Ass't. Nite Editor:  Rick Blower  
Layout: Molly Martin, Suzy Augustus, Pat  
Small  
Day  Editors:  Jeanne, Murphy,  Terry  
Keeney  
Copy Reader:  Greg Allie  
Sports:  Fin  
Typists:  Barb Haug, Tom Modglin, John  
Flannigan, Howard Halle  
Comp.:  Joe Abell  
Nite Controller:  Joe Abell  

-----------------~--------,1 
~ 
t 
Wednesd,ay, February 6, 1974 the observer 
5 i 
the sophomore literary festival 

"Insights into the Human Condition" is the theme this year of the 
Sophomore Literai:y Festival which begins on Sunday, Feb. 10. Stressing 
informal interaction between students and writers the Festival has a 
wide reputation that has in the past attracted such renowned arti~;ts as 
Ralph Ellison, Allen Ginsberg, Kurt Vonnegut and John Barth. Here is-a brief look at who's who at the festival this year: 
Stephen Spender is a ·British poet who has been hailed as a modern Romantic and Lyric. The author of a number of volumes of poetry, Spender is also a critic, editor, novelist and short story writer. His particular tradition is that of the British poets of the 19730's. His most recent volume of poems is The Year of the Rebels. 
John Hollander is an American poet born and raised in New York City where he now teaches at Hun1ter College. Perhaps his most acclaimed volume of verse is The Night Miners, described by James Dickey as the "best that the American urban consciousness can say." Hollander's book of criticism, The Untuning of the Sky, received the Poetry Chap­Book Award. 
Robert Creeley is a New England native whose poetry reflects the thrifty philosophy of that area. His poems are concise, economic works and he has put them together in such volumes as For Love: Poems 1950·.t960, A Day Book, Gold Diggers and Listen. 
Michael McClure as a playwright, poet and prose writer strives for self liberation and the liberation of his readers. His most recent play., The Beard, features Billy the Kid and Jean Harlow as protagonists. Rare Angel and Gargoyle Cartoons are among his most recent books with a new volume of poems, September Blackberries to be released soon. 
Isaac Bashevis Singer has received the National Book Award for Children's Literature and for Fiction. Born in Poland, Singer writes solely in his native tongue of Yiddish. A Crown of Feathers, Singer's most recent work, has been acclaimed as his most brilliant work to date. His other novels include The Manor, The Estate and Enemi·es, A Love Story. 
Joyce Carol Oates won the 1970 National Book Award for her novel Them and is the author of five other novels, four plays, four collections of short stories and three volumes of poetry. Among them are Won­derland, Marriages and Infidelities and her most recent novel, Do With Me What You Will. 
Jason Miller is the author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning drama, That Championship Season. Produced by Joseph Papp, That Championship Season also brought Miller the Drama Critic's and Tony awards in 1973.· 
As an actor Miller can be seen in The Exorcist as Father Karras, and 
in The Nickel Ride, soon to be released. 
Bruce Jay Friedman stands with John Barth and Joseph Heller illl the satiric mode known as Black Humor. The author of two novels, Mother's Kisses and Stern, Friedman has also written two plays, Scuba Duba and Steambath. 
Samuel Hazo is a graduate of Notre Dame who now teaches at Duquesne University and is chairman of the International Poetry Forum in Pittsburgh. The author of several volumes of poetry, Hazo has twice been nominated for the National Book Award and once for the Pulitzer Prize. Some of his works include: Quiet Wars, Listen with the Eye, Blood Rights and his most recent book, Once for the Last Bandit. 





Michael McClure John Hollander 
llllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-IIII.....IIIHIIIIIIIHIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIUIHIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIHHIIIIDIUIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
I E 
§ SUNDAY,FEBRUARY 10 §= ~ WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13 =5_ 
-· i §  John Hollander Stephen Spender  Library Auditorium, 8 p.m.  Bruce Jay Friedman  Library Lounge, 1 pcm.  §5  
~ -i•  "A Tribute toW. H. Auden" John Hollander Stephen Spender Library Auditorium, 8 p.m.  BruceJayFriedman Library Auditorium, 8 p.m. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14  -~ ~ =  
~  MONDAY, FEBRUARY l!  Jason Miller  Library Auditorium, 8 p.m.  ~  
=  =  
5 =  Robert Creeley  Library Auditorium, 8 p.m.  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15  g=  
=~  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY' 12  Joyce Carol Oates  Library Auditorium, 8 p.m.  =ij  
:5~  Samuel Hazo  L'b1 rary  A d'tu .1 onum, 8 p.m.  SAT RDAY FEBRUARYU , 16  :!i  
~  Michael McClure  Library Auditorium, 8 p.m.  IsaacBashevisSinger Library Auditorium, 8 p.m.  I'  

ius 'PI.IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUI771UDI77HIIIIIIIIIIIIIn11Hmlllmlllllllllllllllllmlllllllllllli&IIII!ILIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIII!IUIIIIILIHIUIIIIIHIIIIIHIIIHILIIHIHIII 
\ ·.,\' \ \ ·..~ \,.,_ '-\' (· ··.-r '~ ,' · ·the· observe.r. Wedne~day·, ·Febroary 6,·,,t'n~ · 
TENANT 
LANDLOR.~D--------~--------­



Doctor acquitted 
RENTAL AGREEMENT 

This lease, made this day of , 197_, by and betweeo___________ ,~landlord, and 

~~"~~~~r charge . 
---------, the tenant (s). Th"e-rla::-:n::-:d"l""o""r"'d-a'"'n'"'d,.-.,.t-e-na-n""t"(-s"")-:-ag::-:r::-:e-e--,-t"'h-at:-,---­
MINEOLA N y <UPD opened, Nassau County D1st. 
1. 
The landlord has this day leased to the tenant(s) the premises known and 

described as , number in th~ city of South Bend, Indiana, county of St. Joseph, to b_e_o_c_c_u_p~le-d~ only as a residence by said tenant(s) and no more than other person·s upon the terms and conditions set forth in this lease. The premises are partly/fully furnished. The term of this lease shall be from , 197_ to , 197_ 

2. 
Th~ tenant(s) shall pay to the landlord as rent, for the term stated, $ per month payable on the of each month. 


]. The tenant(s) shall: 

a. 
Pay all rents promptly when due. 


b. 
Pay for any damage to the lease premises or to the appliances and fixtures therein, caused by any act of negligence of the tenant(s) or any member of his or her family or a guest--dafuage due to ordinary and reasonable wear and tear, or loss or damage by fire excepted. 

c. 
Place garbage and refuse inside the containers provided. 

d. 
Refra~n from acts or practices causing noise which unreasonably disturb the neighbors. 

e. 
Keep the apartment/house and grounds in a clean and sanitary condition. 

f. 
Abide by municipal code regulations regarding care and occupancy of the premises. 

g. 
Surrender possession of the premises to the landlord upon the end of the term above. 


4. 
The landlord or his or her agent(s) shal 1 have the right to enter the leased premises for the following purposes: inspecting the premises for damage or needed repairs or improvements only, without intruding into a tenant 1 s personal effects; making necessary repairs or improve­ments; exhibiting the premises to prospective tenants, purchasers or mortgagees. Such entry may be made only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 7:00p.m. after advance notice of at least 24 hours to the tenant(s) of the date, time and purpose of the entry. Entry may be made without prior notice if landlord or his or her agent reasonably believes that an emergency exists, such as a fire or broken water pipe, and requires immediate entry without notice. 

5. 
The landlord shall be responsible for the following maintenance duties during the t~rm of this agreement: 

a. 
Repairs to the exterior of the premises. 

b. 
Repairs to sewers, heating, all appliances, wiring and plumbing facilities. 

c. 
Repairs to all common area, doors, windows, and stairs. 

d. 
Maintaining an extermination service for the premises, providing .for the elimination of all vermin and rodents. 

e. 
Painting all interior areas of the premises with interior non-lead base paint of a grade capable of being washed without streaking. 

f. 
Installing and maintaining locks on all doors leading from entrance ways into hallways, and on the doors to all common areas~ 

g. 
Providing and installing screens, storm windows, and window shades in good condition for all windows in the premises. 

h. 
Maintaining the premises and common areas in accordance with city or county housing, building and zoning code standards. 




Tenant(s) shall be responsible for any of the above repairs if they are made neces­sary by the negligence of the tenant(s) or his or her guests. 
6. 
Th~ landlord shall be responsible for his or her agent(s) negligent maintenance of the premises and agrees to pay tenant(s) or any member of his or her household or guest for reasonable damage resulting from such ne1i gence. 

7. 
All notices to quit and evictions shall be issued in strict adherence to the laws of Indiana regarding forcible entry and detainer. 


B. Th~ tenant(s) have this day paid a security or damage deposit of$______ which shall be returned at the expiration of this lease minus the cost of repairing any damage (except ordinary wear and tear) caused by the tenant(s) or anyone legally acting under tenant(s) control, the cost of putting the pr~ises in as clean a condition as the tenant(s) found them, and any rent due. A breach of this lease by the tenant(s) shall result fn th~ forfeiture af the deposit. 
R~turn of this deposit, or any part thereof, shall take place within 5 days of the day t~nant(s) vacate the premises. Tenant(s) shall be furnished a written state­ment itemizing the costs to which the deposit was applied including the names, addr~sses and fe~s of persons doing repairs or cleaning, and the costs of materials 
us~d.  
9. The t~nant(s)  shall,  in addition  to  the rent,  provide for  the following  
uti liti~s:  
water  oi 1  
gas  te1ephonerefuse pi ~k.-_-u_p_________  

electricity------­

10. 
Th~ tenant(s) may sublet the leased premises for any part of the term of this lease, upon written consent of the landlord, which consent shall not be unreasonable withheld. 

11. 
Should any tenant(s) be cal led up into military service during the term of this lease, the lease shal 1 be deemed at an end of the date of said call-up and all right and obligations of landlord and tenant(s) under thfs l~ase shall cease on that date. 

12. 
Exhibits A and B attached hereto are made a part of this lease. 


1]. This lease and written notations upon it constitute the entire lease agre~ent between landlord and tenant(s). ' 
TENANT( S) LANDLORD 
Aft 'tl · ~ hour of
0
er exac Y e
deliberation Tuesday, a Nassau 
Co nt c rt J'ury found Dr. 
. u Y ou .
Vmcent A. Montemarano mno­
f k·n· f " · 
cent o 1 m~-or . convemen­ce"-a termmally Ill cancer patient.
Montemarano, 34, is the 
former chief resident surgeon of the Nassau County Medical Center. He was accused of inJ·ec ting a fa tal dose of 
potassium chloride into cancer 
patient Eugene Bauer on Dec. 
7, 1972.
Spontaneous cheering from more than half the spectators greeted the verdict. 
Montemarano slumped into 
his chair· Then his attorney'
James O'Brien, grasped him, shook him and smothered him in a bear hug. 
O'Brien burst· into tears and as he released Montemarano, and the doctor removed his own glasses and whiped away tears. 
Judge Raymond L. Wilkes had give the eight-man, four­woman panel three alternatives -acquit Montemarano, or find him guilty of murder or of attempted murder. 
At first, the prosecution 
termed Bauer's death a "mercy 
killing." But when the trial Atty. William Cahn called it a 
"murde f n enien " Cahn
0
r co v ce. c?ntended that M.ontem.arano
killed Bauer to avoid havmg to
k · h. 1 t th t · ht
1oo m on m1 a er a mg .
The defense argued that Bauer died of natural causes. In an hour-long summation, 
Cahn surprised observers by not mentioning the "murder of convenience" theory. 
"I submit that Eugene Bauer,
when he walked into the Nassau County Medical Center,
had a right to expect that the 
t l d . ld 
na ura ymg process wou take its course," said Cahn. "If you believe that anyone has the right to usurp the natural dying 
process, then you should decide 
for acquittal for this defendant. 

We still have Youth Fares to Europe 
Call Clark 234-2098 and save money. 


J';rttfOIIt 
Tires 

GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, 
Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 


·r------------------------·
AN EVENING WITH 
Rod




McKuen 
LIVE, IN PERSON, WITH ORCHESTRA 

IN CONCERT· FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 22 • 8 PM! 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM • SOUTH BEND, IND. RESERVED SEATS $4.50-5.50-6.50 
Now on sale at Morris Auditorium Box· Office, or by mail. Send payment with self-addressed, stamped envelope to: McKuen, Morris Aud 211 N. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. ., 
Special Notre Dame-St. Mary's Discount! 
$1.00 off each ticket. Purchase discounted 
tickets at Morris Auditorium Box Offic:e! · 
~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIAIAIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111111111111111 1111 17111111111011111111111111111111. 
Off-Campus Questionnaire 
The Off-Campus questionaire should be delivered to either The Observer office on the third floor of 
LaFortune or to the Off-Campus Housing Office in 315 Administration Building. All results should be 
turned in by Friday of this week. Extra copies of the poll can be obtained from either the Housing
office or The Observer. 

last name first name m.i. i.d. number class 
o-c address 
Names of co-residents: <last names only) 
Number of rooms? Cost of utilities? 

General condition of house? good ___ fair__ poor __ What is your cost for food per week? ------------------­What do you us~ for transportation? car_ bus _ bik'e --other-----­
Do you pay 12-month rental or do you only pay for the months you actually occupy the house? 
How many total rooms does your house have? ----­bedrooms? Do you have any money-saving gimmicks to pass on? -------------­
Have you had to make repairs with your own money that the landlord should have made? _____What were they? ----------------------­Do you feel your landlord has fulfilled his legal and personal responsibilities to you as his tenant? 
Why or why not? --------------------------­
Where do you feel the university could help you in .dealing with oH-campus living problems? 
DO you have any questions you would like asked in future surveys? -------­
'11111111111111111111mllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!I_!!I~I.IIJI~IIIIIIIII ~111111111111111111111111111111111 
phone number 

Total number or residents: Monthly cost of rental? ---------­Average total cost per student per semester? -----

Kristowski appointed 

Mrs. Mildred L. Kristowski has been named placement director of the Law School at Notre Dame and executive secretary of the Notre Dame Law Association. She succeeds Mrs. Barbara Kunz, who r.1oved to St. Louis with her husband, Dr. Joseph Kunz, former director of the National Center for Law and the Handicapped in South Bend. 
Representatives of more than 90 iaw firms visited the campus during the last semester to in­terview senior students for possible employment. An ad­ditional 90 firms contacted the Notre Dame Law School by mail or telephone in their search for new r.1embers. 
Mrs. Kristowski has been suc­ceeded as personal secretary to Dean Thomas L. Shaffer of the Law School by Mrs. Marilyn Mahoney, a former staff member in the Department of Biology. 
ACAPULCO! 
SUNNY 
0 




Acareer in law­
without law school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. . . 
Since 1970 The Institute for Paralegal Trammg has pl.¥ed ~ore than 500 graduates in law firms, banksaend corporations in over 40 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
THURSDAV,FEBRUARV14 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
IIC 0036. 
.., 

-• • • ~. • • .... # , .J" , , " , ,. I. .... 
Wednesd;1y, February 6, 1974 the observ!r 
MU$C::ul0r dYStrOPhY' kickoff set Thursday 
The students of Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Holy Cross Junior College, Indiana University at South Bend, and Bethel College are inviting high school students in the area to join them on Thursday at 7:00p.m. in the Amphitheatre of LaFortune. 
The purpose of the meeting is to begin to work together to raise Poney to help defeat muscular dystrophy, a disease which strikes r.,ainly children. 
At the gathering door prizes will be given away, a film will be shown to educate the audience about r.'uscular dystrophy, and project ideas will be shared. 
Kathy Hessert, Saint Mary's senior is the Saint Joseph County campaign coordinator. The theme 'Come Together' is taken ft·om the title of a popular song, and we as--~ts are asking high school students to join us in helping fight muscular dystrophy. In the weeks to come, we will ask the citizens of the community to also join us in 'this 
fund-raising  project.  'Come  
Together'  symbolizes  a  united  
community  effort,"  stated  

Hesser!. 
In the weeks to come fund­raising activities will include a dance r.1arathon, an auction, a bicycle race and parade, and a raft race, all involving students and the 
community. 

SUMMER SCHOOL IN ROME 
Saint Mary ,s College June 22 -August 2 All inclusive price $1000 -room, board, tuition, transportation Italian Art 
3 s.h. 

Archaeology 3 s.h. Language & Culture 2 s.h. 
See Sister Alma, Room 115 LeMans Hall for additiona I information 
APPLICATION DEADLINE-February 25 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
PERSONALS 
Dear Kitten 2 years and 300 mites haven't changect me!! I love you more 
'han ev,er Happy Anniversary, Love, Tiger. 
Ali Mac Graw(Judy A . .'B-P(: Just thi~nk! We have 2 more years together! 
Love, 

Ken + George. 
Mary from Watervliet: I sure do tike your smite. Nikolai. 
TO LUMPY LINDA LI.BRARIAN: The Swiss chalet seems chaste without my mist·ress. 
Otd man Tony. 
To the boys whose minds are in the gutter: Grovel in Dirt week! 
Happy 19th 8-Day Mar• rom 4th floor B-P. 
Dear Pa:trick, t tove you. Miss Sr ember. 
Mark: So vou're a face :an, huh? 
WANTFO 
Need ride to Cleveland this weekend. Exit 10. Tom 233­9068. 
LCIST AND FOUND 
Lost Girts coat accidentally swapped in Grace basement. Camet coat with criss-cross tie belt. silver pln, Branson's tabet. 6756. 
Lost gold ring with embO"'ksed dog's head. Call Mike 1~712 
Found UCLA game ring and eyeglass tens, call Mike 3305. 
NOTICES 
At t Sophomore Literary Festival authors 20 per cent off at PANDORA'S St. Louis St. at SB ave. 233-2342. Open 7 days. 
Attention Faculty and Staff: Looking for interior and ex­·erior painting jobs, by ex­perienced ND students. Reasonable. Available now tor interior work. Catt 233-9231. 
We stilt have youth fares to 
Europe!! Catt Ctark at 234-2098 and save SSS. 
Good tix now on sate for Friday and Saturday performances of Grease at Morris Civic. Avaitabte at Student Union Ticket office 1-5 daily. 
Every Friday at 4:45 the 
· Greyhound goes to Chicago from the ND Circle. Catt Tom Boyer at 272-1807 for in­formation. 
FOR SALE 
Wilson classic gotf clubs, bag, balls, and tees. Less than year otd. Best offer. 8428. 
Pioneer SA500A PL 12-D tunrtabte,(2) smaller Ad­vents,$285. All new. Golden Dome Records, 804 Flanner. Phone 1487. 
Fotk guitar. Excellent con­dition. Case included. Catt Mary 283·1347. 
Petrie FT2 35 mm. FLR camera with 200 mm. Lentar tens. Ptus 2 fitters. $130. 683­
7792. 
Need to rent an apartment or room for 10 days after Spring Break in March. Wilt onty use it to sleep. Preferably close to campus. Call Howard--1175. 
• 
... 


the observer Wednesday, February 6, 1974 
ND cagers 'explore' East toni 
by John Moushigian graduate Big Five and MAC all-· · star Jim Crawford 09 ppg., 9.0 
Fresh from a thrilling, seat­rbd.), but Westwood was still · squirming last second victory over optimistic about this year team. Michigan State last Monday, which "Of course we will miss the brought their record to 16-1, the contributions of Jim Crawford," Fighting Irish basketball team says Westwood, "but we have 
appears to be on the way to their several1:eturning players that can best record ever. Having played get the job done. Adding even nine games in the last eighteen more optimism to our prospectus days in the Mid-Western and is a new comer with previous high 
Western parts of the nation, the school All-American credentials, 6­Ir·ish now begin the "Eastern" 10 sophomore Joe Bryant, in hi!;[ portion of their schedule, facing initial year of eligibility." LaSaile, Duke, Fordham, South Bryant, who is scoring 19.1 
Carolina, West Virginia, and points a game and pulling down Villanova in their final nine games. 10.4 rebounds, has undoubtedly Tonight Notre Dame will be in fulfilled his coach's expectations. Philadelphia for a contest with Joining Bryant in the frontcourt LaSalle in the Palestra. Their are 6-5 junior Bill Taylor (18.8 l'ame will be the second half of a ppg., 7.0 rbd.) considered a 
rwin-bill which features South remarkable shooter and 6-6 senior Carolina r:1eeting Villanova in the Joe DiCocco 01.5 ppg., 9.1 rbd.) a opener. The first game will be of steady and dependable player who interest to the Irish players has started every game for the because both teams will face Notre Explorers over the last three Dame iater this year. But their years. At the guard positions are 6-0 r.,ain concern tonight will be to Charlie Wise (11.6 ppg.) and 6-1 defeat the Explorers of LaSalle Glenn Collier (7.1 ppg.). With four and secure Irish victory number-out of the starting five players in 
17. double figures, LaSalle's offensive 
LaSalle's head coach Paul balance is indeed impressive. Westwood at the beginning of this Chiefly because of their of­season stated, "Although we were fensive balance, Coach Westwood satisfied with last year's 15-10 had expected an improvement one. In the only two previous starting lineup of John Shumate (7.6 ppg., 3.0 rbd.) hero of the 
record, which included victories over their 72-73 record, but this r.,eetings between the two teams, (23.0 ppg., 9.9 rbd.), Adrian Michigan State game, and Ray over Southern CaJ.ifornia, New years team has the identical the Irish hold a 2-0 edge, winning Dantley 05.9 ppg., 9.0 rbd.), Gary Martin (3.0 ppg.) should see plenty Mexico State, Duquesne, Niagra, record after their first nineteen last year at the A.C.C. by the score Novak (6.6 ppg., 5.5 rbd), Gary of action. Tip off is scheduled for Western Kentucky, Canisius, and games as last year's team 02-7). of 87..71. Brokaw 07.4 ppg), and Dwight 7:45 EST and can be heard over 
VHlanova, our '73-'74 varsity will However, a win over Notre Dame The Irish will go with their usual Clay (9.5 ppg.), but Billy Paterno WNDU and WSBT. be pointing toward improvement." would definitely make this The Explorers lost the services of season's campaign a memorable 
Ed Graham: Swimming just lor the fun of it







OBSERVER 
by John Fineran 
ferent strokes--the butterfly, When he was in fifth grade, backstroke, breaststroke and senior Ed Graham was asked to freestyle in that order) was

SPORTS 
make a booklet which would achieved in last weekend's loss at convey his future plans. Graham Marshall University, a time of 
did, illustrating an airline pilot and 2:08.0. Notre Dame graduate. He has since decided to keep his feet on "As my time gets lower, I know 
the ground, that is if you deduct the I'll place higher 1" Graham says. I
Clarke suffers injury; 
time he spends in the Rockne am ahead of myself at this point Memorial Pool as the captain of of the season than I've been in the 
this year's Notre Dame swimmers. past."


doubtful for· Spartans 

by John Fineran The decision to pursue a law Still,Graham has only one real
ice by trainers Gene Paskiet and 
career by the Butler, Pa. govern­personal goal this season--helpingJohn Whitmer. 

Paul Clarke, a freshman r.1ent major comes as no surprise achieve Coach Stark's 100th career 
It was decided not to move

defenseman from Scarborough, to Graham's coach, Dennis Stark. win as Notre Dame coach (Stark 
Ont., was injured yesterday af­Clarke and to take him to the "Ed is a very conscientious, sin­needs but three victories to reach 
hospital. While Paul waited for an

ternoon in a controlled scrimmage cere young man," Stark says. the plateau). And because of his 
ambulance, Smith and the two admiration for Stark, Graham
as the Irish icers prepared for this "Although he is quiet, he mixes
trainers wrapped him in a blanket.

weekend's series with Michigan well with others. would be the first to admit that the State. Although he was taken by Clarke, who has performed well "We've beaten them every year losses to Marshall and Oakland ambulance to St. Joseph's all season on the blueline in ad­"In addition, Ed is one of my except my sophomore (the only minuses to Notre Hospital, Dr. Francis Sellers, team dition to scoring one goal and 10 best volunteeers in helping the season(Notre Dame was Dame's 5-2 record) were disap­
pointing.

physician, termed Clarke's injury points, was given tests at the retarded children at Logan Center disqualified in the final race of the as a "severe groin bruise." hospital. In addition to the learn to swim. He found the day) and that is why we always The incident occurred near the diagnosis, Dr. Sellers said, "Paul is like to do well against the Bon­"The team is the only group
time last year to help organizeend of practice behind reserve in pain and will be at the in­their Olympic games." nies." really playing up Coach Stark's goalie Don Smith. Clarke was firmary, where he will be elevated lOOth win," he continues. "He 
attempting to stickhandle past an and the injury iced." never dwells on it, although I'm
Graham, who swims the 200-· This is indeed surprising as both

Irish teammate when a stick Sellers also said the availability certain it is on his mind.
yard butterfly in addition to his Graham and Stark admit the Irish caught him in the groin area. He of Clarke for this weekend's series speciality, the 200-yard individual captain is not an emotional one

immediately went down, and after with the Spartans is a "day-to-day "Coach Clark is a dedicated and 
medley, seems almost em­around the team.

Coach Lefty Smith had called a thing on how rapidly he responds to loyal man. There is not enough we
harassed when someone mentions

timeout, he was examined on the treatment." can say about him that would help 
his volunteer work. 

"I'm not the rah-rah type of explain how we feel about him. captain," Graham says. "I'm That's why these next five meetsWomen fencers finish 2nd "It was Coach Stark's idea," he fairly quiet, not one who rants and against difficult competition 
says. "He put it purely on a raves. I feel the team elected me mean so much to the team and The Women's fencing squad of the SMC-ND fencers defeated voluntary basis, and it has been a captain for what I've done in the me." St. Mary's and Notre Dame last State University of New York good thing. I really get enjoyment past." <Brockport), 11-5, Oberlin ,12-4, out of it. The children do have
weekend placed second among five Graham feels the same way
and Ohio State's B squad, 12-4.

teams at Columbus, Ohio, barely difficulty . learning, but it is Stark agreees. "Although he will about Notre Dame as he does about losing to host-team Ohio State by The females fenced a total of 64 pleasing to see the progress they talk with the team individually, Ed his caoch. 'I'm really going to
individual bouts, winning 43 while make. That makes it all worth­
one touch. really lets his action in the water miss Notre Dame when I graduate
dropping 21. Kathy Valdiserri led whileL''
The SMC-ND fencers battled speak for him. He works hard at in May 1 " he laments. "Although it 
the team with a 13-2 record,

Ohio State's 14th ranked nationally his swimming." was rough as a freshman, I've females to a draw in victories, 8-8, followed by Cathy Schoendienst But if this shyness speaks a little really grown to like its people and 
(12-4), Judi Offerle (11-5), Joan bit of Graham's quiet out-of-the This hard work has paid off. Ed
but the OSU women were awarded its educational and athletic op­
... the. match by having 43 touches. Bonifert (4-4) and Cindy Rebholtz pool personality, just mention this holds school records in bolth the portunities." In the round-robin tournament, (3-6). week's Irish opponent St. 200-(2:07.2) and 400-yard(4:37.7)"It was a long, exhausting day Bonaventure, and watch his eyes individual medleys, but since the "But especially the swimming. 
BB Return for us," team captain Schoendienst light up. latter is a special event reserved That's what I'm going to miss. I 
said. "We were eager for the "The St. Bonaventure meet(this for the Motor City In­feel some of the outstanding people 
The estimated arrival of the challenge. Saturday in the Rockne Memorial vitational(next month in Detroit), on this campus are part of theNotre Dame basketball team from ''Since this is only our second full Pool at 2:00) has always been a Ed has not had the chance to better swimming team. We're just aLaSalle is 11:45 an1 Thursday. In­season of competition, we made an psych one for us," he continees. his mark. His best effort this bunch of guys swimming for theterested students are asked to excellent showing, especially 
"It's the swimming team's version season although a losing one, in the fun of the sport and the results
assmeble at the circle at that hour. 

against Ohio State." of Southern Cal. 200 individual medley(four dif-have been unbelievable." 
John Shumate (left) and Gary Brokaw will be only a river away from their home state of New Jersey as the Irish take on LaSalle in Philadelphia's Palestra. 




