
OD The Inside 
'74 valedictorian: a woman ... page 3 An Tostal '74 ... page 4 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 111 Monday, April 22, 1974 

Unanimous opinion 
An Tostal'74: the best one yet 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter . 

The organizers of An Tostal unanimously their pleasure with the "unprecedented success of past weekend's activities." 
"I'm really ecstatic", said Wally Gasior, An Tostal Chairman. 
"We had great weather and great participation from the students." "I think everyone on campus was ready for it. It was an almost perfect weekend." 
Gasior explained that An Tostal had grown from budget of $300 with three workers its first year to budget of $6,000, $4,800 from Student Government, rest from An Tostal activities, and a work force thirty to forty students this year. 
"I think its success was due to several factors,"~ Gasior said. "First, of course, was the weather. Plus we had a core of hard working people who were really· dedicated to what they did. Also I think ·. · organization was important to the success." 
"Some of the events were rained out Thursday .....·· including some new ones that we would like to have seen go on," he continued. "Some of the most suc­cessful events were the impersonation contests, the 

Rectors split on new law 
SLC to discuss state statute today 
by Susan Divita Staff Reporter 

The SLC will meet today to discuss the new Indiana state law concerning alcohol and the effect the law will have on the University. This law places the responsibility on the University for any student charged with violating Indiana drinking laws. 
Several hall rectors voiced their comments on what 
effect the law will have on Notre Dame students. Fr. 
Carl Ebby from Fisher Hall stated that he hopes to 
see the Indiana law as powerful as the Supreme Court 
ruling on obscenity. He says the University must 
approach the problem seriously and listen to the legal 
advisors. Notre Dame must face up to the risks of 
violating the law and must decide on what the stance 
can be toward the law, according to Fr. Ebby. 
Fr. Ebby approved the old campus drinking policy 
which recognized that parties with alcohol existed on 
the campus. He said, "Parties are very good social 
occasions. I've enjoyed this year very much under 
the present party regulations. It's been a better pleasant year." Fr. Gorski from Howard Hall agreed with Fr. Ebby in saying, "I have been happy with the party guidelines this year. We had some great ad­vancements this year." About the new Indiana law Fr. Gorski said, "The whole news has made me very sad." Alcoholic beverages and parietals first appeared on the Notre Dame campus in 1969, according to Fr. Ebby. Before the "enlightened" policy established at the beginning of this year, the situation concerning parties and drinking was what he termed a "two­
faced" thing. "Soon, the custom became law" said ~iiilillii%io•••"-•.·.·.·•·,'····~'"""•·,·····= Fr. Ebby. 
Sr. Karen Anne from Badin Hall stated that before this year the drinking problem was "behind closed doors," and that the University can do no more than comply with the law or take on a great risk. She states that the only "realistic" thing that can happen is to stop drinking on campus for the rest of the year. Though Fr. Ebby thought the SLC might be able to come up with an alternative, Sr. Karen Annes feels feels there are no two sides to the question. 
What can the students do? As Fr. Ebby said, when he was an undergraduate student at Notre Dame the ons were formal affairs and at those they served grape juice. "If people want to have alcohol other than in their own room, they're gt'ling to have to go off campus," said Fr. Ebby. As Fr. Gorski says, "We're going to do our creative best with the situation." Sr. Karen Anne says that at the meeting tomorrow a proposal may be made concerning a student movement towards lowering the Indiana state drinking law. 
Assistant Chariman Ron Paja. People looked like they had a really good time. "I was working there and I know I did. I don't think the alcohol rule really hurt 
\us." 
"I feel the dining hall outdid themselves with the food. Considering there were so many last minute ~changes, it turned out well," added Gasior. 600 people attended the Wake. 
Pat McLaughlin, a committee member commented, "Everyone I've talked to said this was the best An Tostal we ever had here. The Glee Club at the amateur hour and mud pit fights. Wally Gasior and Ron Paja dig just a tremendous job. They were just great." 
"I'd like to mention Ron Paja and Tom Eichler for doing a phenomenal job, concluded Gasior. "Without 
•them we would've been lost. They coordinated knowing exactly what events were where times." 
"We started working on the weekend in February, and since Tuesday things have been hectic, with only three or four hours of sleep a night," Paja said. According to Bob Quakenbush, results of all AnTostal 

fireworks display, the free concert, the road rally, the events and the winners will be printed Tuesday or 
Irish Wake, and the various spon~aneous acts of Wednesday as soon as all the people are contacted. 
revelry, like getting thrown into the mud pits at the tug-of-war contest." 
Gasior was also pleased with the free concert. Ac­cording to the An Tostal Chairman, Luther Allison was only contracted and paid to play for one hour, but asked to play longer, performing for three hours. 
"The Irish Wake turned out to be a great success considering the court ruling and other th;ngs," said 
*************************** 
More An Tostal pix on page 4 
(Photos by Chris Smith) 


1111!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIDIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
No more 'Waiting: BU accepts ]oanie! 
BOSTON <UPI)-Ms. Joanie Caucus, the liberated hous~wife in the comic strip "Doonesbury," has been accepted to the Boston University Law School. -.. 
Law school Dean Paul Siskind said today he has send an official letter to Ms. Caucus, in care of the comic strip's creator, Garry Trudeau, in New Haven, Conn., saying: 
"I am pleased to advise you that your ap­plication for admission to the class entering Boston University in September, 1974, has been accepted. A place in the class will be 

reserved for you, provided we receive before May 1 the items described in the attached literature..." 


The comic strip appears daily in The Ob­server. • 
Siskind said he decided to accept Ms. Caucus after 300 B.U. students signed a petition asking the law school to admit her. 
John Berk and fellow law student Rick Brody said they circulated the petition because Ms. Caucus has applied to several other law schools in the comic strip and has been turned down. 

"I think the students got a kick out of it·," said .Siskind. "That comic strip is rated very high, there's a lot of respect for it, and it's got a large following here. 
"Besides, :1 think it represents a situation that's very real-the problem of getting into a law school today." 
Contacted at his home in New Haven, Trudeau said, "I'm delighted, of course. It's a little eerie, though." 
--li£&1-IIIIIUIH......IIIIHIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIUI,_IUIUHII 

evident when it was discovered 


that two dorms were scheduling according to Larry Stanton. ••••••••••••••••••••lt•lt••••••••••••••••••••••••••••ii••••••••••••••••••w 
parties for the same evening and that two other halls had separately 

i:p~;t::::·:;;::~~ i::::::i:~ i spEcIAL END 0 F sc H0 0 L I planned an identical trip to a Chicago baseball game. 
the exorbitant amounts of capital ~ yEAR sALE I 
that Standard Oil and other major • I
* D

utz and the other commissioners 01'I · k' I I 1229 •also concerned themselves with compames are rna mg as • . ua • defining their role as social a result of the oil shortage. : I G th t . T t bI $259•95 I 
commisioner. As a result, utz will 4,000 interested citizens are • et ese grea savmgs Urn a e.•• : meet Dean of Students John expected at the !0:30a.m. meet~ng ! when you buy 2 speaker * Base & Dust •• 
Macheca. to discuss the respon-to voice consumer anger at oil • C '31 90 • 
sibilities and duties of hall social · • 1 1 • over
company profits. A 45-mmute • at our regu ar ow pnce. ••• ••• "' • •
commissioners. t' f th t' · t • • 
r:er plounblol.C. e mee mg lS open 0 • * Stanton 600EE :
"I guess what we really want to • • do is revive student interest, both All students interested in at-:I SONY STR 7065 or Shure : 
on the hall level and the campus as tending the Standard Oil meeting • awhole,''Utzsaid. "Withthenew areurgedtocallinPIRGat3827or II! I 29 50 429 so' M91 ED cart 54 95 : 
Indiana ruling on alcohol and the Larry Stanton at 8982 to arrange : ist 5 . ··· now · ••• • : present situation on campus, it: transportation. i KENWOOD KR7200 Total list price $346.80 : 
•· p us• 
·.: list 499.95 ... now 399.95, Now $21 .00 taxi
J·UNIORS! •• PIONEER SX727 ••
: list 399.95 ... now 265.00 :
Tuesday, April 23 is 
i PIONEER SX828 : 
the observer Monday; Ap!lil 22,.1974· 
Because of gold prices 
ND ring prices raised 
rising. However, Bro. Moranby David Kaminski set in onyx costs $80. 
hopes that current BookstoreStaff Reporter The Bookstore has introduced a prices for class rings will stay
line of sterling silver class rings. A 
constant until at least SeptemberSoaring gold prices have boosted men's silver ring with the blue of this year.
the cost of a gold Notre Dame class stone costs $36. The same ring in Bro. Moran said that all the oldring about 34 per cent, according to the women's model costs $27. 
ring. price lists were probablyBro. Conan Moran, N.D. Bookstore From this level, prices also rise in destroyed when the new ring
manager. the silver rings according to the prices went into effect on April 8,The official Notre Dame gold stone chosen for the ring. 
1974.

ring with blue stone now costs $98 Despite the new line of less However, for the sake of com­for the men's model and $54 for the costly silver rings, students are parison: A gold men's ring with awomen's model. $97 now buys a generally still buying the gold synthetic emerald stone,sales taxmen's gold ring with black onyx rings at their new higher prices. 
and additional charges for extrastone. But from this level, prices Bro. Moran blames the price inside engraving included, sold forrise in relation to the stone in the increase ·solely on the rise in the about $70 in the winter of 1972.
ring. price of gold on the free market. A Today that same ring, without taxA man's gold ring with a one­few years ago, gold was still held or engraving charges, sells for $98.
eighth carat diamond set in onyx at $35 per ounce. Today, gold A steady business relationshipsells for $171. A similar women's hovers at about $180 per ounce. 
between the Bookstore andmodel with a three point diamond The price of sterling silver is also 
Balfour, the ring supplier for N.D. has kept rising prices from rising
Socia1 commission ev;rr:~~e~u. the price of gold has 
been rising steadily. However, for awhile Balfour was able to make
Organl.zatl•on sought the class rings from a surplus of 
· ]old bought at lower prices. Also, a school has to pay the ring manufacturer for the tool and die 
puts more pressure on us to create
by Jim Donathen work needed to produce the
the atmosphere that has been
Staff Reporter school's design for the rings. By
lacking so long at Notre Dame." 
staying with Balfour, N.D. saves
Utz hopes that inviting aU halls 
the cost of new tool and die 
Ken utz, Zahm Hall social to participate together in the making. commissioner,i.n recent weeks has planning of activities will improve Finally, while other ring been holding meetings of the social social interaction on campus. manufacturers apparently may
Ideas suggested so far include 1)
commissioners of various halls in price a ring according the current
creating a co-ordinated social
an effort to co-ordinate planning price of gold at the time of the
calendar to prevent the planning of
for hall activies. ring's purchase, Balfour agrees to
hall activities which will conflict, 
quote a fixed price over a longerAn organizational meeting of all 2) increasing social interaction period of time. 
hall social commisioners has been between halls through joint ac­"We have to make a few dollars slated for Thursday, April 25th at tivities, and 3) pooling together on every ring we sell in order to 
11:00 p.m. in the Zahm Hall chapel. ideas tried by individual halls. 
continue selling and servicing
Interested social commisioners or "This thing can be really great if them,'' Bro. Moran said. hall presidents should contact Utz we all work together," said Utz. But Bro. Moran said the ringsin 205 Zahm or call 8755. "But, co-operation is of the utmost 
are only one item that will soon be
importance if campus life is to be 
rising in price. One of the 
utz conceived of the idea of a improved." Bookstore's major pap,er and campus organization of hall social notebook suppliers recentlycommisioners when he found that 
warned of a 30 per cent increase in 
Farley was planning a hall party 




lnPirg needs 
their prices.
the same night as a Zahm Hall "It annoys our people a great party. Before Easter break, he deal to have to raise prices," Bro. 
called together representatives 
for 
Moran said.
from St. Ed's, Cavanaugh, Farley, 

students 
B.P., Walsh, LeMans, Keenan­Stanford, and ZahmHalls. 
The Observtf' is publiShed dally during the college semesttf' except vacations by the stucrents of the


Oil meeting
At the meeting the social com­
University of Notre Dame and St. 
misioners discussed possibilities 
Mary's College. Subscriptions
InPirg is organizing a group to 
may be purchased tor S8 per semester (Sl.C per year) from The 
for multi-hall activities and 
chances for using Stepan, La attend the Standard Oil of Indiana 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame,
Fortune, and the quads for hall 
Indiana 46556. Second class
stockholders' meeting on Thur­
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.
activities. The need for co­
'46556.
operation between halls became sday, April 27 in Whiting, Indiana, 
warld 
briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-This is the week that President Nixon must respond to a subpoena for tape recordings related to the Watergate cover-up, a deadline set by the House committee con­sidering his impeachment. 
NEW YORK <UPI)-Sports commentator Howard Cosell says he has been considering opposing Sen. James Buckley, R-N.Y., in the 1976 Senate race because he wants to "do something more meaningful with my life." 
BEAVER, Okla. (UPI)-Mutt Standefer ignored gusty winds and a gaggle of politicians to win the annual world championship cow chip throwing contest during the weekend. Standefer, an Oklahoma Department of Wildlife employe competing in the VIP division composed mostly of politicians, threw his 10-ounce piece of cow manure 119 feet into the 25-to-35-mile-an-hour wind down Main Street to outdistance all other competitors. 
an campus taday 
12:00-9:00 p.m.--art show, student-faculty show---all m~dia, up­stairs 12-9, downstaris 12-5, moreau gallery. 
1:00 p.m., baseball, double header with ferris state college. 
2:00-5:00 p.m.--art show, "clown on flre"--all mediums, o'shag gallery. 
8:15 p.m.--concert, university chorus, directed by dr. david isele, washington hall. 
RESERVATIONS
I 
284-4176
I-



w ND 
Student • Faculty
SMC 

ND-SMC Staff 
$200

THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 

John Gay's ribald musical romp Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
---------" 
Junior Night at the Senior Bar, 
: list 459.95 ... now 330.00 
: L_______________________________,
from 8:30 to 1:00. Pints of Beer 25c 
!•• Check the prices on all 
Sponsored by the N.D. Alumni Association and the Junior : other models too... Class. 
i Savings of 33% NOWI Golden Dome Records : 
21 I. D. Required 
!.......................................~Q~.f.L~~~.f.~;.;!~~l.•: 
Under Capp's direction 
~--~-~-~----~-~---­
Monday, April 22, 1974, the observer 
Campus Life Commission solidifies plans 
movies. The proceeds would be discounted rates. today. Action towards appeal of other school must have the per­used to support the coffeehouse The TGIF committee is on shaky the ruling is being sought by Dr. mission of both schools. and other Campus Life Com­ground because of the recent In­Phillip Faccenda, vice-president The theology and speech andThe Campus Life Commission mission projects. diana Court of Appeals alcohol ofr student affairs and new drama departments, because they met yesterday in the LaFortune The Parties Committee was ruling. This committee would be in chairman of the South Bend are combined departments do notBallroom for students interested in created as· a substitute for the charge of planning parties in the Chamber of Commerce. participate in the 3000 hour limit. 
working on any of the com­present authorization of parties LaFortune Rathskeller to be held Meal and class exchanges Speech and drama courses must be mission's committees. 
through Dean of Students John from 3:00 until 5:00 on Friday between Notre Dam and St. Mary's registered for at St. Mary's, butUnder the direction of Ray Capp, Macheca.Chaired by Mike Berg, afternoons. are handled by the Co-ex com­Notre Dame students wishing tothe Campus Life Commission is the committee intends to eliminate Until the alcohol ruling is mittee and its chairman, Blake enroll in Saint Mary's religiousretaining two former committees: many of the last minute dilemmas clarified, plans for these informal Wordal. The limit on classes taken studies courses can do so at theSocial and Co-ex. Movies, which occur under the present social gatherings cannot be by Notre Dame and St. Mary's Notre Dame theology registrationParties, and TGIF committees system. There are also plans to formallymade. The Student Life students at the other institution is desk on Friday, April 26 for 8:30have been created to meet current purchase liquor for student parties Council 1s expected to work on the set at 3000 hours. Any student a.m. tQ 12:00 p.m. or on Monday,student needs. 
from South Bend distillers at alcohol policy at their meeting wishing to enroll in a class at the April29 mnn 10:30 a.m.-3:00p.m.
Headed by Ralph Pennino, the The Food Service AdvisorySocial Committee's major efforts Board will be co-ordinating by theare directed towards establishing Co-ex committee. Biweeklya coffeehouse in the LaFortune meetings will be held with Edmund 
Chroust schedules address
Rathskeller. Scheduled to open Price, director of food services,next fall, the coffeehouse will and the directors of the north andoperate Wednesday, Friday, and 

for N D Natural Law Institute 
south dining halls in an effort to
Saturday nights with a 15 or 25 cent admission charge. Professor Anton-Hermann Chroust Law Institute and Notre Dame, it Aristotle: P rotrepticus-A improve dininl! hall service. 
Plans are to use the coffeehouse of the Notre Dame Law School is particularly appropriate that we Reconstruction, University of two nights a week for jazz, pop, faculty will address the annual recognize the contributions of Notre Dame P,ess, 1964; The Rise and folk rock entertainment; and meeting of the Natural Law In­Aquinas in this area. of the Lega'l Profession in to have it serve as a forum for skits stitute tomorrow at 1:15 p.m. A merica, two volumes, University and other amateur talent on the Born in Germany, Professor of Oklahoma Press, 1965; third night. If the coffeehouse is Chroust's lecture is entitled Chroust was educated in Germany, Aristotle: New Light on his Life successful, Fr. David Schlaver, "The Philosophy of Law of St. France, Italy, Austria, England and on Some of his Lost Works, two director of student activities, Thomas Aquinas: His Fundamental and the United States. He has volumes, London 1973, University would like to see the Rathskeller Ideas and Some of His Historical taught at the University of Har­of Notre Dame Press, 1974. He has renovated and utilized solely for Precursors." vard and Notre Dame. He was also also written numerous articles on that purpose. It will commenmorate the a visitng professor and Senior various subjects, published
unique and lasting contributions of Fellow at the Yale Law School on
The Movies Commission under throughout the world. the direction of Joe Michaels, St. Thomas Aquinas to the two occasions. His books include The lecture will be delivered at hopes to sponsor from four to six philosophy of law. In view of the Socrates: Man and Myth, the Notre Dame Law School. It is 
relationship between the Natural Routledge, and Kegan Paul, 1957; open to the public. 
o·connor named Valedictori...­First woman honored 
by Pat Flynn " and it's wrong to dump all women or men·. into one Marianne O'Connor this year will become category." Notre Dame's first woman Valedictorian. The Valedictorian is optimistic about the social O'Connor is in the Metallurgy program of the situation at Notre Dame. She claims that although College of Engineering at Notre Dame and a people complain about the present situation, it has member of Farley Hall. gotten better i the four years she has been here. "I think maybe because of being a woman, I "As Valedictorian, I have to represent my entire have a different view of things on campus," class in my speech at commencement. I know that she reflected in an interview with The Ob­what I say will not please everyone, but I hope my server yesterday. "In the first place it is a fellow graduates will understand my attempts not to be real challenge psychologically. People are partisan, but to be as representative as possible." surprised when you do well." Valedictorians are picked solely on the basis of grade­She said that few male professors out­point," she continued, "but I hope that is not all I am 
wardly state that they think women are representing. There are things which are as important unable to compete intellectually, but often as academic success. Academics have been just one their attitudes or the things they let slip in part of my education here at Notre Dame. 
conversation, seem to reflect that sort of belief. 
O'Connor "can't understand why people make such a big thing about co-education. Women are just people like everybody else." 
She feels that the value of coeducation is that itreflects the situation of the real world, bringing men and women together not only for specified social events, but in working, living, atmosphere. 
According to O'Connor, men and women 
BOAC 

Youth Fares to Europe 
Call Clark 234-2098 and save money. 
learn from each other through coeducation. "The girls I know at Notre Dame including myself who came from all-girls schools,have 





one.
learned to be more logical and more career oriented from the boys," she explained. In addition, she "hopes that the girls. have helped You've been programmed since you soften the aggressive and job-orien-ted at­were 5 years old for what happened mosphere that is typical of all-male in­yesterday-now how about tomorrow? stitutions." 
For O'Connor, the ultimate goal of coeducation is breaking the stereotyped images of both men and women. "Each woman, each man is different," she said, 
And when you come out of the Army you'll have a first-rate scholarship-the G.l. Bill-to continue your education if you wish. Talk us over with your placement counselor or phone toll free 800 -523-4800. 

1974 Valedictorian Marianne O'Connor 
We eaa sern each other weD. 
(Photo by ~~ Brower) 


---~------­
-~------~-~------~------­
the observer Vol. VIII, No. m 




An Tostal 
In the six years that the An Tostal festival has been tradition, it has served to, as Fr. Hesburgh said on Friday afternoon, "welcome spring, in a fitting way, to .duLac." 
This year, despite the "Gentle Thursday" rains, late-arriving Beach Boys, and an almost thwarted Irish Wake, the An Tostal committee, with a little help on the side from happy students and pleasant weather, gave Notre Dame the finest "Rite of Spring" it has yet to witness. 
Three elements seemed to have been essential to the success at this year's An Tostal: the planning, the people, and the weather. 
It would take this entire page to give deserved credit to all of the people who planned and worked for the success of this weekend. But some mention should be made of a few of the essential members of the An Tostal committee. Chairman Wally Gasior, with the aid of Ron Paja, Tom Eichler, Fred Baranowski, and the ever-present Jim 
E. Brogan, among others~ performed the task of uniting the Hall President's Council; without these people and the staff under them, the memories that surround An Tostal '74 would not be the same. 
The weather and the crowds were truly co-operative, at times battling with each other (as on Gentle Thur­sday night), and at times serving as perfect complements (as on all of "Sunny -or was it Muddy­Saturday." 
An Tostal was the perfect way to toss off winter's cobwebs for the renewed vitality of the spring. It was a weekend of joy and excitement, and this year that spirit was abundant. The '74 Committee is to be highly commended for their work. Next year's will have their work cut out for them just trying to equal An Tostal '74. 
-The Editorial Board 


the observer 

beach boys: on tostal climax 
a review by jerry lutkus 
The Beach Boys interrupted the activities at the Notre Dame ACC playground long enough Saturday night to drive the place absolutely bananas. Despite the rigors of their brutal touring schedule, the Beach Boys did another magnificent performance (their third in as many years) at Notre Dame. 
The world of the Beach Boys has become one of Gate 6's, airplanes and hurried meals. They have become the epitome of touring groups. Friday they played two shows. Saturday, before coming to the ACC, they played Grand Rapids at 5:00 (Indiana time) and yesterday they had two more shows to give.
But nonetheless, the show at the ACC wa~ 
something special...again. If the group was 
tired, they sure didn't show it, granting the crowd two encores and a set full of the songs that they came to hear. 
They started off with the old material, doing Wouldn't It Be Nice, Darling and Little Deuce Coupe. In fact, out of the 22 songs they performed Saturday evening, only six could be considered new material, most of it coming from their album, Holland. 
Early in the show, the big problem with the work was the sound system. The in­strumental amps were deafening and most of the terrific vocal arrangements, par­ticularly in Long, Promised Road were lost in the roar. 
The artists did most of the new material in 
the early part of the set and from the time 
that Carl Wilson sang the beautiful God Only 
Knows, both the crowd and the group 
noticably picked up. The harmonies in that particular song were the best of the night. 


From there on out, the songs were the ones that everyone has heard hundreds of times before. Yet they still sound great-­Heroes and Villians, Don't Worry Baby, Sloop John B, Help Me Rhonda, Sur/in USA, Good Vibrations, California Girls, Barbara Ann, I Get Around and Fun, Fun, Fun. 
Sloop John B really marked the turning point in the show, however. From that point on, the crowd was on their feet with hun­dreds of people dancing in the aisles. John B is probably the one song that most of the kids at the concert could really relate to because it was more from their era. 
But there's just something about the Beach Boys that's unfathomable. They're the only group in the world who could be popular for the rest of their days playing the music they made famous in the sixties. The Beach Boys mean something to everyone. Even to us midwest kids who used to lay on the beaches of the Great Lakes dreaming about catching a wave and hanging ten while we listened to the Beach Boys sing about it. I have the feeling that fifty years ~rom now when we might happen to hear one of the songs, we'll still smile and feel something special. The Beach Boys are special and they really can bring back to all of us the dreams and days when we were a little younger. I imagine that for years and years their songs will recall memories of sunny summer days. 
While they're onstage, the group has the uncanny talent of making you feel that they're having a great time entertaining you. That's the mark of a great performing group. The key to it is Mike Love who's stage personality is nothing short of amazing. He clowns, he dances and jokes while moving from one end of the stage to the other. 
Alan Jardine on the other hand doesn't do 
much clowning or moving around, but he 
just stands there, smiles and sings with the 
best voice in the group. His vocal work in 
Heroes and Villians was terrific. Carl 

I 
Wilson's voice s~owed the wear and tear of constant performing and Dennis Wilson • gave a little more evidence to the fact that his voice has been going for years. But despite all that, when their voices worked together, there is no better vocal work in the business. 
Unfortunately, the same could not be said for the Stanky Brown group which opened the show. They were no different from any other rock group with mediocre harmonies and songs which ran into each other because of their similarities. Despite the group's performance though, the ACC crowd again showed its colors. Concert crowds here have got to be the most inconsiderate in the midwest. Loud talking and shouting punc­tuated the first set and people were still trailing in 45 minutes after the concert was to begin. And to top it off, after their specific requests by the Beach Boys not to light matches after their set members of the crowd did anyway. 
But all in all, the concert served as the 
best possible climax of the most successful 
An Tostal weekend ever. An Tostal is a 
celebration of spring and the Beach Boys 
sure gave us a lot to celebrate. 

'Little Bir:l Screen 
•

s1monI s hit and the network ox falls 
art ferranti 

There is a dirth of films this week due to piolots and specials, but there are a few that merit one's attention. Tonight, Neil Simon's brilliantly hilarious The Odd Couple is rerun on ABC at eight after a year's hi<>• from the tube. Jack Lemmon pia) J tne dejected but fussy Felix who takes up housekeeping after being divorced in messy Oscar Madison's (Walter Matthau) apart-merit. Lemmon is superb in recreating his Broadway role, playing off Matthau's Oscar with skillful timing and sly gestures. Of course, the opposite also holds true for Matthau. Simon has the movie filled with his usual trademarks -deft one-liners calculated to destroy the audience into guffaws and running jokes such as "the cooking, the cleaning, and the crying" which lend humanity if not more laughter to the portrayal of the characters. The two highlights of the film are the card games with actors John Fiedler, Herb Edelman, David Sheiner, and Larry Haines and the closing scenes with the Pigeon sisters played by Monica Evans and Carole Shelley. Directed by veteran Gene Saks, the film is one gem of a comedy. 
"The G .E. Theater" presents Larry tomorrow on CBS at eight-thirty. A made-simple people celebrating their tenth an­niversary CJ.,..Jd racial prejudice and not as steref\•-Interracial love of another ~.r-... examined in Friday's late film on 
vrlS Sayonara in which an American jet flyer falls in love with a Japanese girl. Marlon Brando plays the air force ace with sensitivity and a controlled power. Red Buttons and Miyoshi Umeki received best supporting actor and actress Oscars for their roles in this 1957 film adapted from the James Michner novel. James Garner, and Ricardo Montalbon are also in the cast. It may be dated but the acting and the back­drop make it superb. 
Also from 1957 but in the prime-time slot Elvis Presley stars in Loving You, Wed. at eight on NBC about his becoming an over­night sensation when signing up with female press agent to aid her dad. The film is, of course, a dud both due to a lack of plot and wooden acting but a good vehicle for Presley if one likes him and his music. Catch Wedding Band instead. 
As for the pilots, John Saxon ( a doctor on "The Bold Ones l stars as an astronaut who hibernates himself via suspended animation into the 22nd century'inPlanet Earth on ABC tomorrow at seven-thirty. It is the sequel to 

forTY special, the film probes the true stocyGensis II with Saxon playing the lead of 
of a 26 year old man's adjustment to the world after he has been released from a hospital for the retarded. Having been in the institution for his whole life, the ad­ministrators find that Larry is and always has been normal. Frederic Forrest has the title role. It along with the following special promises to be one of the dramatic events of this year's season. ABC Theater Wed­nesday at eight has J.D. Cannon (McCloud's boss married to Ruby Dee in 1918 in the South in Wedding Band. The press release touts that the two main figures emerge as Dylan Hunt which Alex Cord originally portrayed. It is created by Gene Rod­denberry who did "Star Trek". Two seems to be the charm number for Roddenberry 
since this is the second pilot for the new show a friend has died. Most of the dialogue was and "ST" had had two pilots before it sold improvised and while the film does have its also. Three pilot losers for past seasons air good moments that loose direction by tonight, all comedies but pale in light of The Cassavetes (he also wrote 1it) often 
Odd Couple running opposite. The pilot denigrates the film into long moments of titles are "Doctor Dan," "Bobby Parker and unintelligible ramblings. Comapny" and "Ready and Willing" and On campus: Stanley Dubrick's A Clock-
they air at eight toni~tit on NBC. work Orange will be shown this Wednesday 
At seven tonight on ABC truth belnds with in Wahington Hall at 6:30, 9:00, and 11:30 fiction as cameras follow a doughboy amid real war footage as the Americans enter World War One in "The Yanks Are Coming." The hour special highlights the idealism of the soldier against the harsh relaity of war. David Huffman plays the G.l. Thursday's film has yet to be announced on CBS but ABC has a news special that day slated at nine and probing records kept on citizens by the government. 
Saturday's movie has Frank Sinatra in an off-beat war-mystery and .suspense horror film entitled Manchurian Candidate (eight on NBC). Sinatra is brainwashed by the Chinese communists to help a plan to take over America. Lawrence Harvey, Janet Leigh, and A1;gela Lansbury also star in this 1962 film which carries itself off tremen­dously well despite its run-of-the-mill premise of conquering the U.S. That credit goes to the acting and the directing (John Frankenheimerl. Peter O'Toole stars in Sunday's film at eight on ABC, Murphy's War. The film drags in many spots but O'Toole's acting remains intense throughout. 
Friday CBS News reports on the status of blacks in America at eight while one hour earlier on ABC Peter Falk narrates a special on the unusual medical and scientific programs across the world. Finally, Falk also stars with John Cassavetes and Ben Gazzara in Husbands tomorrow's late film on CBS. The film follows three men on a four day drunk after 
p.m. Sponsored by the Glee Club admission is $1.00 Cancelled: NBC gave the axe to thirteen shows Thursday followed by CBS canning six. ABC has yet to announce. The ill-fated programs are: (NBCl "Banacek," "Dean Martin." "Flip Wilson", "Snoop Sisters," Hec Ramsey," "Brian Keith" "The Magician," 'Lotsa Luck", "Te~afly," "Faraday and Co.", "Chase", "Music Country, U.S.A.", and "The Girl With Something Extra;" <CBS) "Sonny and Cher", "Lucy," "Dirty Sally," "Hawkins," "Shaft", "Dick Van Dyke." New shows many based on TV pilots and current films ~the latter with different actors, though), mclude warm drama "Little House on the Prarie", with Micvhael Landon, "Born Free". "Petrocelli" (about traveling lawyer), "Lucas Tanner" (about an ex-ballplayer) with David Harman, "Sushine" with Cliff DeYoung (as the widower form the TV movie and John with John Denver's song and "Senior Year" (about highschool in the fifties): comedy "Chico and the Man" with Jack Albertson, "Paper Moon," "Second Start" with Bob Crane, "The Lov~ Nest", "We'll Get By," and "Rhoda" with Valerie Harper getting her own show with the Mary Tyler Moore character; cops and robbers drama "The Rockford Files" with James Garner, "Police Woman," "In Tandem" with Frank Converse and Claude Akins as truck drivers, "The Rangers" (about forest rangers), and "The Manhunter" with Ken Howard <as thirties bounty hunter); and science fiction "The Planet of the Apes" <from the films) with two astronauts and 
an ape. Trivia Question: Who narrated "The .Fugitive," "Rocky and His Friends" and was the voice of Matt Dillon on r~dio's gunsmoke"? 
·peJUO;) WUJIJ!M.r.. S,UOUUU;), :JaMSUV 
----~----------------· 
the observer Monday, April 22, 1974

Percy: Nixon blocking justice 
WASHINGTON (UP!) -Sen. Charles H. Percy, R-Ill., said Sunday President Nixon ap­pears to be obstructing justice by stalling on subpoenas issued by the House Judiciary Com­mittee and the special prosecu­tor's office. 
Percy also said Republicans were "whistling in the dark" if they believed Watergate would 
Spring Juggler 
QVOila ble today 
The spring sementer's edition of the Juggler will be available today and Tuesday, according to co­editor John Coury. 
Coury said student subscriptions will be distributed in the individual halls, and copies may be pur­chased for .75 each in the Library form 10:00 -4:00 P.M., in the Huddle at lunch time, and at dinner time in the dinning halls. 
not be an important issue in the fall elections. He said the party will make no gains in either chamber of Congress because of both Watergate and inflation. 
The senator was interviewed on ABC's Issues and Answers. 
"I continue to see reluctance, dragging of feet, almost what might be considered the hinder­ance of justice here, an obstruction of justice," Percy said of the White House delays to subpoenas for tapes and documents. 
"I feel we are moving_ ~oward a very dangerous position of confrontation if the subpoenas of both the House and the special prosecutor are not lived up to." 
Percy later added: "It would appear there is now a chance that justice is being impeded. I know the work of the grand jurors is being impeded and slowed up because Mr. (Leon) Jaworski (Watergate special prosecutor) in a letter to me 


Is Clockwork Orange going to shown on campus sometime in the near future? 
The Notre Dame Glee Club was able to get Clockqork Orange and it will be showing this Wednseday, April24at 6:30p.m. and 11:30 p.m. in Wahsington Hall. The admission will be $1.00 
I've noticed that there's a blue screen on the water tower in the north quad. What is it used for? 
I talked to Ray Jackson, the chief engineer of WNDU, and he said that it is a microwave reflector. The microwaves originate at the WNDU studio here on campus and are reJected south for about five miles to a recieving station on Ironwood grove. 
When is the advance registration for the Summer Session? 
Advance registration for the Summer Seession is the same time for the advance registration for the Fall Semester 1974-75, from April 25 thru May 2. 
1 Mike Christman (left) defeated Larry Higgins (right) by 150 to 115 yesterday to become the 1974 campus billiards champion. 
(Photo by Ed Brower) 
PUBLIC ACCESS TV

I 
l 
Sing, dance, tell jokes or just gripe, but Do It ­on videotape 
MONDAyI APRIL 22 7 PM 

... 
ROOM 340 MOREAU, SMC 

this week indicated that much to me in much those same words." 
A high-ranking White House aide indicated last week that Nixon would not comply fully with the House subpoena for tapes and documents relating to 42 presidential conversations. But he indicated the White House would supply the com­mittee with verbatim tran­scripts of most of the conversations. 
The deadline arrives Thurs­day on the Judiciary Commit­tee's subpoena and May 2 on Jaworski's. 
Percy, who has mapped strategy for running in the 1976 presidential nomination, said he would not be satisified with White House-prepared tran­scripts of the tapes and thought a refusal by the President to offer anything but the tapes themselves could end up in a bill of impeachment prepared in the House. 
Regarding the fall elections, Percy said "there is no possibility of us <Republicans) up in the House or the Senate. The question is how much damage is going to be 

THE ISSUE STAFF 
Night Editor: Gary Allletta Designated Assistant: Jerry Lutkus Layout: John Moushlglan, George Scheuer, 
J.R. Baker, Bill Brink, Camarry Day Editors: Jim Donathen, Mary Janca Copyreader: Greg Aiello Sports: Vic Dorr, Fin Spiritual Advisor: Fredric Graver Pictures: Albert D'Antonio Typists: Claire Kelly, Camille Arrleh, 
Karen Hlnks, Bill Menk, Howard Halle Compugrapllic: Joe Abell Controller of the Night: Joe Abell 
NOMINATIONS 
I 

FOR GSU 
Now being accepted for Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer. All interested Grads see Bill Lavage, Memorial Library or Paul Bolduc, 373NS Elections April 26 
done." He said the economy 
think it won't be."

would be stronger by fall, but 
In response to a question, the

doubted inflation would be 
senator said it would be
significantly slowed. 
"unreasonable" for the Repub­

"I'm more concerned about 
licans to lose 70 to 100 House

inflation than anything else .. We 
seats, but he added "those are

do not have, and have not to 
the figures that are in the

date demonstrated, our ability 
ballpark, and it would be

to control that. Watergate will 
disasterous for us, I think, to

be with us in the fall and we're 
have that much power and

whistling in the dark if we 
control in one party." On other issues Percy said:

Grad students 
-His strategy for the Repub­lican nomination was to ask thetohave workshop party to accept a possible winner. He cited the 1952 party
Graduate students in the convention and said the party Department of Economics have wanted to pick Sen. Robert scheduled a workshop on inflation Taft, but chose Dwight Eisen­for Friday April 26. Sessions in the hower instead because he could Memorial Library Auditorium are win. open to the public without charge. -Agreed with Sen. Barry 
Dr. Ronald L. Teigen, professor Goldwater, R-Ariz., that of economics at the University of Percy's current odds against Michaigan, will discuss "Realities getting the nomination were of the New Inflation" at the around 10 to 1. opening session at 9:30 a.m. His -Opposed tax cut legislation talk will be followed by a introduced by Sens. Edward discussion of "What Should the Kennedy, D-Mass., and Walter Federal Reserve Do About In-Mondale, D-Minn., as adding flation" by Dr. Thomas Mayer, fuel to inflation. professor of economics at the------,!!~------.,


University of California, Davis. A panel discussion is scheduled for the afternoon. 
ATTENTION 
ALL 
RADUATIN STUDENTS 
Measurements 
will be taken 
for 
CAPS 
and GOWNS 
Thursday 
April 25 
and 
Friday 
April 26 
between 
9:00-4:00 
at the 
NOTRE 
DAME 
B-OOKSTORE 

Monday, April 22, 1974 the observer 
Ducks defeat Club 3111 
The Playhouse 
525 N. Hill 
Live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat.
in Bookstore final game 
Happy Hour Mon·Fri 5-7 p.m. 

by Bill Delaney 

The DUCKS are the champions of the 1974 Bookstore Basketball Tournament, as the result of their 21-17 Friday afternoon victuy over last year's champions, CLUB 31 II. 
In a very emotional game bet­ween the two teams, Joe Cooney and Ron Hein made three driving Jayups early in the game to give 
Baseball 

(continued from page 8) 
singles and Notre Dame's sloppy fielding into three runs and the lead in the sixth. A double steal followed by shortstop Smith's wild throw and Ken Schuster's passed ball gave Northwestern the ad­vantage. 
In the eighth inning, the Irish tied the score on an infield hit by Schuster, a sacrifice by Tom Miller, and Hansen's double. Northwestern came back in the last of the eighth with three hits to oust Pittman. Jim Scholl retired the next two batters to close the inning. 
Two singles b. &:hmitz and Coleman gave Not.-e Dame a run and some hope in the ninth. But Wildcat reliever Chris Curfman fanned Clemens and Goodman and had Scuster hit into a force play for thesave. 
Notre Dame faces the Ferris State Bulldogs in a doubleheRder this afternoon at 1:00 p.m. on Cartier Field. The Irish are home for another doubleheader Tuesday against Michigan, the pre-season favorite in the Big Ten. 
workers. Call 232-8500 after 5 p.m.
Dressel wins Decathlon 
On Friday evening and again on Saturday morning and afternoon, 65 campus athletes competed in the annual An Tostal Decathlon for the title of "Best all-around ath­lete at Notre Dame." 
Bob Dressel, a junior from Sorin Hall, captured individual laurels in the demanding two-day event with a point total of 808, and Brian Barnett, from Morrissey, finished a close second with 792. 
Bob Case of Flanner barely edged Bob Cimino of off-campus and Ed Byrne of Alumni for third­place honors. 
The team championship was captured by an o-c group con­sisting of Cimino, charlie Morrison, John Trampe, and Frank Murnane. The o-c squad piled up an average of 765 points, and just outdistanced Cavanaugh's team entry, which averaged 757.5. 
The Decathlon, which scored each ·event on a hundred-point system, was brightened by a number of fine individual efforts. Those efforts included: 
--Barney Thomas' winning speed-skating time of 40 seconds 
The Thomas· A. I 
Dooley Foundation 
• W k" .
1s or 1ng •••• I 

in Cambodia, in Laos, 
in Nepal, in the hearts 
of millions. 

fdr information 
on how you can help: J 
Write P.O. Box 1195 I South Bend, Ind. 
·I 

.....______________ 
the DUCKS the lead. CLUB 31, led by Frank Allocco and Steve Sylvester, couldn't find the basket, enabling the DUCKS to open up an 11-5 halftime lead. 
The opening minutes of the second half were marred by poor shots, shoddy rebounding and all­around lack-lustre performances, but in spite of these events, the DUCKS continually went to the basket, as Rosey Thomas' drives opened up a four-point lead. 
Norb Schickel tried to bring CL VB 31 II back into the ball game with his shooting and drives, but Brian Harrington's jump shot from the top of the key snuffed out a late CL VB 31 II comeback and gave the DUCKS the victory and the Championship. 
The All-Bookstore Team, chosen by the Tournament Committee was selected after t'le game. It was composed of Rosey Thomas and Joe Cooney of the DUCKS, Mike Bonifer of CLUB 31 II, Dave Kelly of the TILCS, and John Cornelius of the HOLY CROSS HOGS. Cooney was also selected the MVP of the Tour­nament, and the title of "Mister Bookstore" was awarded to the DUCKS ' Ron Hein. 

HOUSE PARENTS: Married couple, preferably without chilcren to live in Girls Group Home. Room & Board plus
OBSERVER monltlly salary: $400 upward depending on experience. Summer job wilh posibillty of continuation. Husband may work or study outside home.SPORTS 
Time off is prov lded. call liN's. Carol Wilken at 233-9491. 
Per9)11 to work 30· hours. 
AI tern ate publications, 
distribution. Low$. Good fella 
for three laps around the ACC rink. 
--John Trampe's 40 for nine holes of golf at the Burke Memorial Course. 
--Joe O'Connor's 54-second clocking in the 100-yard swimming event. 
--Mark Sullivan's free throw accuracy--28 out of 30 shots. · --Bob Case's winning softball heave of 290 feet. -Dan O'Connor's 43-foot toss in the shot-put. --Scott McFarland's 20-6 effort 
c 
A 
M 
p 
u 
s 
v 
I E 
w 

Drinks are 2 for 1
In the Consolation Game for third place, the HOGS easily defeated HElLS HOOPS 21­10, in a game where the HOOPS 

Tuesday Nite • Keg Nite couldn't get their offense together. Bedford Bruno and John Cornelius 
Drafts are only 20~ combine for 11 points, which proved too much for th:J HOOPS to o•· !rcome. 
An Tostal 

CLASSIFIED ADS
Volleyball 
Pangborn Hall defeated the Hogs 
WANTED
from Holy Cross in the featured event of Saturday's mud volleyball 

Wanted: Two girls needed all 
extravaganza to claim the campus 

day Wed. by Hallmark Rep. 
Light work, good pay. Ca II Paul 7937.
volleyball championship for the 
second consecutive year. Pangborn defeated the Hogs in a 

HELP WANTED! OVERSEAS JOBS . Australia, Europe, S.
best-of-three set, which was played 

MAmerica, Africa. Students
in eight inches of mud and grime 

all professions and occupations 
on the An Tostal field. 

$700 to $3000 monthly. Ex­penses paid, overtime,
In the preliminary event, The 

sig hlseeing, Free information.
Observe1· staff and Student 

TRANS WORLD RESEARCH 
CO. DEPT F3 P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925 
Government played to a 1-1 tie in their two-game series. Student Government captured the first game of the series, but The Ob­

NEED USED PIANO WILL PAY$$ CALL JIM 1171.
server's muckrakers gained a tie by winning the second contest, 15­

Bikeless couple willing to store 
8. 

two bikes (1 man's and 1 woman's) over summer vacation in exchcnge for their use for evening recreation. Call Don Bouffard at 7354. 
Part-Time Help, weekends, 
evenings parking cars. Ca II 
291-5131 liN'. Quinn
in the running broad jump. -Bob Kissel's 10.9 hun:lred yard 
NOTICES
dash. 

Stolen last Thursday from
-Mark Sullivan's 4:43 effort in 

cycle area at C.J. Honda SL-
the mile, and 

350 with green-gold gas tank. --Frank Murnane's touch with a 
3ee anything? Call 234-0851. Promise no involvement, no
billiards cue--he took but 13 shots 
hassle.
to clear the table. 

Summer Storage: reserve
Rory Moran, one of the events' 

space now at Mrs. Cooper's.
two organizers, stressed that 

clean, dry, secure, and 
reasonable. Will pick up outside dorm. 772-3004. 
participants can determine their 
points and placement by phoning 

Lou Myers at 8324. TYPING· TERM PAPERS, THESIS, DISSERATIONS 
BRING 21 I.D.
call 232-5853 for rent?! information or visit crestwood m2nagement com1=dny 3012 east edison road, scuth bend· 
PERSONALS 
Dear Secret Admirer:  Thanx  
for !he flowers.  
T.C.  

AL: 1 love you more, too, PB, QB, etc. Thanx, 
DPMGB 
Obituary: Hurricanes raise havoc. Second floor LeMans declared national disaster area. Two found drowned one in waterbed, one in alka· seltzer. Lone survivor ship­wred<.ed on a Hill. 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: 1basketball In back of bookstore. Call 7969. ­
Lost in Space Tech: Soc-Psych. notebook; IMPORTANT!!! Call Larry 3301 
FOUND: set of keys in a leather case in the A. v. Theatre of Continuing Ed. Cen 1er. Ca II 6423. 
Found: 1 basketball in back o' bookstore. Call 7968. 
Lost: ring. White gold with bluestoneand N.D. encrusting. Engraving is N.L.M. 75. ca II 
8810. 
PERSON WHO FOUND KEYS MARKED 384 PLEASE CALL 1867 AGAIN. FORGOT TO GET YOUR NAME & NUM· BER. THANKS. ANDY at 384 DILLION 
·----­FOR RENT 
3 MAN HOUSE FOR SUM· MER. GOOD LOCATION ON NOTRE DAME AVE. CALL GARY 1373. 
5 becroom house for rent near campus. excellent condition. 233-1032 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 4 BDR. NEWLY FURNISHED WALL TO WALL CARPETING CLOSE TO CAMPUS. AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER & FALL OCCUPENCY. GRADUATE STUDENTS ONLY. CALL AL BRASSEUR 289-2A63 BEFORE 5 p.m. 
FOR SALE 
1968Chevey Imp. CUSTOM VO, Blue. Radio, excellent tires, clean. reliable, $800, Jim 283· n331-4. 
HANDMADE INDIAN TURQUOISE JEWELRY FROM NEW. MEX. FINE SELECTION OF BRACELETS, RINGS, WATCHBANDS, AC­CESORIES. CALL 7833 OR DROP BY 10 LYONS. 
Webcor Stereo. Includes AM· Fm Garrard Automatic Turn· table . Stereo 8-Track -2 Wetx:or Speakers . Excellent sound · Excellent Condition. $325 ca II 1024 
Pioneer SX -626 Receiver, 11 monlhs old, in excellent con­dition and still under Warrantee. $200.00 Jim 1487. 
FINALLY!! KEROVAC BIOGRAPHY IN PAPER BACK. GOOD READING, NOW AT PANDORA'S BOOKS. 
SA NY 0  3300  KA  QUAD  
Receiver  at  20  Watts,  per  
Channel  R.M.S.  JVC  

Demodulator, 4 Speakers. Excellent Condition. 5 Months Old. List $845.00 Can be had tor SS75.oo call 1506 
NOW RtNIINu one and two bedroom furnished apartments 
Featuring: 
+ 
SWIMMING POOL 

+ 
COMMUNITY BUILDING 

+ 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 

+ 
REFRIGERATOR 

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT 

+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND " 

PROFESSIONALLY DONE WITH ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER, CARBON RIBBON. REASONABLE. CALL 233-6638. 
CHEAPEST WAY TO TRAVEL! SCOOTER Britain . Europe 
$33 per wk Lambretta.seats two. Also WorldwideQVERiandCAMPINl 
AND LOWEST AIR FARES. Trail Blazers TOLL FREE 800-223-5586. 
Experienced typist will do: term papers, manuscripts, etc. Ca II 233-5332. 
THE DOMINICANS educators, preachers, paslors, missionaries, counselors. A community of men praying and working togeltler, bringing the Word of !he Gospel to the spiritual, intellectual and social needs of the world today. 
Write to: Rev. Joseph Payne 
O.P.5 Hill House Avenue, New Haven, Conn. 06505. 
JUNIORS· TUESDAY APRIL 23 IS JUNIOR NIGHT AT THE SENIOR BAR. ALL JUNIORS INVITED. BE THERE! 
the observer Monday, April 22, 1974 

'We're ahead of where we were' 
A change of scenery seemed to first and goal on the two. take an early, adverse toll on But soph noseguard Marvin Notre Dame's football team during Russell stacked up Jim Weiler on Saturday's full-dress scrimmage, successive downs, Reggie Barnett but by the time the Irish gridders dropped Don Knott for a three­had completed their two and one­yard loss on a third down sweep, half hour workout, they seemed to and then a heavy rush forced 
be right at home in their new Trosko to overthrow wide receiver surroundings. Bob Walls in the end zone on fourth 
Head coach Ara Parseghian down. moved his scrimmage activity But the number one offense from Cartier Field to the playing scored three ground-based touch­surface of Notre Dame Stadium for downs of its own during the first the first time this spring on half. Senior fullback Wayne Saturday morning, and the Bullock notched the first two-­change, particularly, seemed to slashing over from one and five fluster Parseghian's passers. yards away-and he finished the That, or it inspired coach Paul afternoon's workout with 71 hard­Shoults' defensive backs. earned yards in 20 carries. 
The first three drives during Cornerback Tim Simon set up Saturday's workout ended in in­the number one's third touchdown terceptions-one each by senior when he fielded a punt and Tom Clements (to Tim Simon), returned it 37 yards to the defen­junior Rick Slager (to Drew sive unit's 24. AI Samuel put the Mahalic l, and junior Fred Trosko first offense on the board for the (to Tom LopienskEl-and those third time shortly afterwards, miscues, along with a pair of 15-when he took a Clements pitch-out 
yard penalties and a high snap by and weaved around end for 15 
center Stt::ve Quehl in a punting yards and a six-pointer.
... situation gave Parseghian good But if Simon set up one touch­reason to frown during the early­down for the first-line offense, he and very late-portions of the also took one away. Early in the scrimmage. fourth period (of a five period But, nearly three hours after session), Clements found tight end things began, Ara was doing much Robin Weber breaking deep more smiling than scowling. against the number two defense "There was some good running and hit him in full stride. Weber after that shoddy start," he said, was all alone when he caught the "and we got some good drives in pass, and rambled for 55 yards 
there, roo. before Simon-a sophomore with "But you know," he continued, 9.7 speed-caught him from "it's always good to get back into behind. 
this stadium. The stadium Simon's tackle prevented a TD, year provides us with game con­but only momentarily. Because ago. but at the same time that doesn't mean we are where we will
ditions-the clock, officials, down Clements, two plays later, found and distance, the sidelines, and wide receiver Pete Demmerle in have to be." 
field position." the end zone and hit him with a 10-Saturday's scrimmage picture, colored, as it was, by the re-entry
And after their erratic start, yard touchdown pass. 
into the stadium, was also clouded both Irish platoons-offensive and The only other tally came late in 

defensive-seemed to be glad to be the afternoon, as the number three by injuries and like maladies. back on the stadium turf. 
offensive and defensive units faced Running backs Art Best (shoulder) each other, and sophomore QB and Eric Penick (flu) did not see

Quehl's wild snap from center gave the number one defense the Kerry Moriarity got that score action, but they were capably opportunity for its first goal-line when he whipped a 12-yard TD replaced by soph AI Hunter (80 
pass to tight end Doug Buth. yards, 14 carries), and senior AIstand of the spring season, for the "Normally," observed Ara, Samuel (45 yards, 12 carries).

number two offense, guided by QB Fred Trosko, took advantage of the "we're making many more errors Demmerle also suffered a mild turnover and moved quickly to a at this time of the year. We're wrist._injury. 
Irish nine records 6-0 shutout 
Brothers Clemens and sending Rick _Haaning, Northwestern's by Pete McHugh Evans to the proverbial showers. freshman left bander, also held the Coleman added a run in the sixth: Irish hitless the first four innings.

Behind a five-hit, ten strikeout singling, stealing second, and In the fifth inning, Notre Dameperformance by sophomore scoring on Pete Clemens second broke the deadlock and the no­righthander Bob Stratta, the Notre 
double. hitter when Pete Clemens tripledDame baseball team crushed In the seventh inning, the Irish off the right field fence to scoreValparaiso 6-o Saturday at Cartier put the game out of reach and tied Coleman who had reached base onField to earn a split in its weekend the longstanding single . inning Haaning's error. Goodman'saction. Friday, the Irish dropped a 

record for sacrifice flies. sacrifice fly drove in Clemens for a5-4 decision to Northwestern at Nussbaum started the rally with a 2-0 Irish lead.
Evanston. 
shot off the fence in left center The Wildcats parleyed three 

In Saturday's shutout, Stratta only inches from his first career was simply superb. An all-state home run. (continued on page 7) hurler at Rich Central High School an infield by
Following hit

in suburban Chicago, he pitched Hansen, Notre Dame executed ano-hit ball for four innings, faced perfect hit-and-run play as junioronly 30 batters, allowed only one shortstop Jim Smith singled home runner to reach second base, Nussbaum and advanced to secondpicked a runner off first, and on the throw to the plate. First­walked none to up his season baseman Mark Schmitz andrecord to 4-3. 
designated hitter Ron Goodman 

While Stratta devastated then cleared the bases with con­Valparaiso at the plate, Pete secutive fly outs. Clemens and Tom Hansen led the 
The victory ended a three game eleven-hit Irish attack which Irish losing streak and upped their disposed of three Crusader pit­season mark to 9-15. Defensively,chers. Clemens, the senior Notre Dame turned in one of itsrightfielder from Tell City, In­best performances particularly atdiana, was most bothersome to the third base where Coleman madevisitors with a pair of doubles and five assists and engineered the a single in four at bats. 

only Irish double play.

Valparaiso starter Lee Evans held Notre Dame scoreless for the Against Northwestern on first four innings before long Irish Friday, Irish starter Mark Pitt­outs became long Irish hits. In the man extended his hitless-inning 
fifth inning, Pete Clemens led off streak to ten before being stung for with a ground rule double to left a base hit by Wildcat second and was followed on the basepaths baseman Bill Buffie. Nor­by his twin-brother Paul, who was thwestern, Big Ten co-leader with courtesy-running for catcher Steve a 16-4 mark, was not content with 
Simone. just ruining Pittman's no-hit ideas, After a walk to centerfielder however, as they pummeled the 
Dick Nussbaum loaded the bases, senior righthander for eight hits captain Hansen responded with a . and five runs the next three in­double to left center scoring the nings. 


ND ruggers nip Big Ten champs 
by Bob Kissel threatening on numerous oc­casions, but thwarted when the 
The day was Sunny Saturday Illinois backs kicked downwind out and the site was Notre Dame--a of trouble. place abounding in activity from Illinois scored first early in the the An Tostallakeside picnic to the second half to put the Irish down by decathletes running, jumping, and four points. Ed O'Connell got three throwing at Cartier Qeld. The points for ND by hitting a 25 yard athletic fields behind Stepan were penalty kick. After repeatedly no exception. puching Illinois deep into their 
In fact, they appeared more like zone late in the game, the Irish a four-ring circus, with lacrosse, finally got the go-ahead try. Jim soccer and two rugby games being "Doctor J" Kovac blocked an played simultaneously. Illinois kick, scrambled five yards, 
The Irish rugby team hosted Big and fell on the ball in the end zone Ten champs Illinois in a game for the try. Ed O'Connell con­matching two highly respected verted the kick for two points. clubs. Last week the Illini shut out Larry Casey, next year's team Ohio State, the only team to defeat captain, then iced the game when the Irish this spring. he scooped up the ball out of a five 
The Notre Dame "A" squad yard serum down and went in for came from behind to hand the the score. fighting Illini a solid 13-4 loss. The "It was a satisfying vi~ory for first half ended scoreless with ND us," said team captaih Tom 
Masenga. "Illinois had many foreign grad students, which showed in their better brand of passing and kicking. It was basically a question of wearing them down, by hard hitting and constant pressure." 
The Notre Dame "B" unit was forced to play the South Bend "A" team because of the late arrival of Illinois. The Irish "B" team gave South Bend a 26-10 loss. The Irish won the game on consistent hustle, speed, and determination. The offense was provided by tries from Chet Zwalich, Dave Ward, John Froman, Bill Sweeney, and Bob Kohler. John Mcintyre converted on three kicks for six points. 
The Irish "C" team tied Illinois "B" 6-6. Rich Conti scored the lone ND tally and Tom Welte converted the two-point kick. 
Next Saturday the Irish ruggers have their toughest game of the spring against the Chicago Lions. Last fall Notre Dame defeated the Lions 10-9 for the Midwest crown, and this year's Lions have again combined good size in the serum with finesse and quickness in the backfield to produce a 
consistently potent attack. 


