
Registration presents problems 
"Fish or cut bait" 
Ford calls for deadline· in V-P confirmation 
OD The Inside 
Senior Club 
... page 12 
Law open house 
... page 3 
Vol. IX No. 49 by Dennis Kelly Staff Reporter 
A few smiles, more disappointments, and some bitterness marked the first official day of pre­registration for spring semester classes at Notre Dame yesterday. 
In the Arts and Letters vuuc15c, a common complaint from students was the of openings in certain classes in the That 
-
t 
< 
This year's registration presented a number of problems and complications. (Photo by Zenon Bid­zinski) 
-------~--­


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, November 15 1974 


Students voice complaints 
department employs the "major" system of registration in which declared majors in the field choose courses before non-majors, regardless of class. 
Among those courses where few openings appeared at the start of registration yesterday were Professor Ernest Sandeen's "Poetry" and Professor John Garvick's "Hemmingway"--both filled within minutes. 
Senior quota 
This type of pressure for courses did not develop at other departments using the "major" system, however. Government professor John Kromkowski, undergraduate advisor in that department, noted that many spots remained available in even the most popular classes there. He pointed out that the decision four years ago to allow sophomores to carry major courses in government "has eased the pressure for registration immensely.". 
Many seniors were dismayed when only ten seats were alloted them in Russian Literature, a popular offering in the language department. Its professor, Joseph Gatto, decided upon the quota because, "the last half of the second semester of senior year seems to me to be a total waste. 
"Usually seniors have been accepted to some graduate school by that time," Gatto stated. "I want students who will work to be in that class." 
As a result, 20 seats were kept open for un­derclassmen. In addition, Gatto reserved a minimum of five spots for women. "The girls told me the boys were pushing them out of line while waiting for the course," he explained. 
Business registrations 
The degree of satisfaction with registration procedures in Business Administration corresponded to the success had in securing desired class cards. 
One junior finance major said that he used a senior identification card to get a jump on other class seekers, and estimated that several other classmates used the same methods. A junior accounting major attending a registration meeting expressed a feeling of "helplessness" as he watched his desired courses close. 
Finance students were allowed only two courses in their major. Students registering last, as determined by a Finance Department lottery, could obtain only one major course. 
The office of the dean then offered the students one additional business course each. 
"Some business students only received six of their required 18 credits," a finance major said. "Thus, four courses would have to be electives obtained outside the business college." 
By comparison, a more serene atmosphere surrounded course sign-ups in the colleges of Science and Engineering, with very few student complaints registered there. 
Athletes and CAP 

Some students felt that problems they encountered in registering were compounded by alleged "preferential treatment" afforded to athletes and to the Committee on Academic Progress members. 
However, Dr. Michael DeCicco felt that the opposite was true--that athletes were not getting a "fair shake" in registering for classes. DeCicco, academic coun­selor to Notre Dame athletes and a professor of civil engineering, said that athletes in business ad­ministration were having great difficulties in registering, because of work'i)uts conflicting with registration meetings. 
He explained that the only concession he received from Dean Raymond was that graduating seniors would be given courses needed to fulfill graduation requirements. 
(continued on page 7) 
Bv R.H. GROWALD 
PHOENIX <UPI> -President Ford said Thursday it is time for Congress to "fish or cut bait" on Nelson A. Rockefel­ler's nomination as vice presi­dent, and urged a new law or constitutional amendment to speed up vice presidential confirmations. 
In something akin to anger, Ford said in a prepared speech to a convention of the profes­sional journalistic society Sigma Delta Chi that it took him only 11 days in office as President to nominate Rock­efeller for the vice presidency but that three months later Congress still has not said yes or no to his choice. 
Ford suggested that Congresshave a deadline set in which to confirm a vice president. 
Ford arrived here Thursday aftternoon from Las Vegas, Nev., where he announced in a speech to the National Associa­tion of Realtors a $300 million federal program to aid home buyers. On arrival at Luke Air Force Base, Ford formally placed on active duty the first of more than 700 new F15 jetfighter planes. 
Speaking as the Senate Rules Committee continued hearings on the Rockefeller nomination in Washington, Ford said: "I believe the time has come for them to fish or cut bait in this matter." 
He said House Speaker Carl Albert and Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield have assured him "they will make every effort to bring the nomination to a floor vote" before the lame duck Congess ends in December. 
Ford said this cooperation is what the Constitution demands and the people want. 
"I am as convinced as ever that Gov. Rockefeller is the right man for the job and I am anxious to have him as a working partner in the govern­ment," Ford said. 
"For the future, however, I will propose to the next Congress a re-examination of the 25th Amendment, which has been tested twice in as many years, to see if the provisions of Section 2 (dealing with selec­tion and confirming a vice president when the office is vacantl cannot be tightened up either by another constitutional amendment or by public law," he said. 
Deadline suggested 
"There should be a specific deadline both for the president to nominate and Congress to confirm a vice president," ford said. 
Under the Ford plan, if Congress does not approve one nominee by deadline time, it must automatically begin con­firmation hearings on another nominee. 
Ford said it had been suggested to him that if a deadlock between a presidential choice and a congressional failure to approve or disao­prove stretches out to the deadline time, the speaker of the House -whom the Constitu­tion puts next in line for the presidency after the vice president -would automatically take over as vice president. 
The President said he is not prepared to advocate this suggestion. But he said, "In this dangerous age as the 25th Amendment attests, we need a vice president at all times. And 
I speakknow."  as  one  who  ought  to  
Veto discussed  
Ford  also  talked  to  the  

journalists' society about his veto of the Freedom of Information Act Amendments. 
Replying to criticism in the organization's magazine The Quill, he said: "I really don't think my veto suggests 'a discredited policy of cover-up as usual' or that the Freedom of Information Act, as it stands or as amended, played or could have played any part in uncovering the Watergate cover-up." 
Suggesting to Congress the type of bill he would accept, Ford said he had these main objections to the legislation he vetoed: 
-It would have given federal . judges the right to open national security and diplomat­ic secrets if the judge found reasonable the position of the person seeking the disclosures. 
Ford said judges are not experts in deciding what should 
the time should be extended to
be kept secret, and should be 
45 days.

empowered to open SE"Cret 
-The bill did not carry
doc.uments only if the government 
sufficient guarantees against
cannot orovide the 30 _ 
opening FBI records and the
days to answer a request for 
· investigation files of other law
handing over a secret docu­
enforcement agencies.
ment, whereas in his oPinion 

President Ford yesterday urged legislation to speed "'p vice­presidentia I confirmations. 

Marijuana Conference 
The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws <NORML) is meeting in Washington, D.C. this weekend. In a special series to the Observer, Roy Eckert and Cathy Penniman, both juniors at Georgetown University, will file stories on the conference beginning Monday. 
In the conference NORML will focus on the problem of marijuana use and the laws from a medical, legal, legislative and law en­forcement viewpoints. 
bse--rv_e_r 
Fridal!_ November 15, 1974 
rr---------2-----t-h_e_o 
f , 
~ 
~ ~ 

warld briefs .., 
RRl'SSEI.S <UPI>--Gold "'ared 1o an all time high o£ $191 an 
ounce on the London bullion exchange today. As gold went up the lJ .S. dollar went down, reaching a seven-month low in Zurich. 
TOKYO <UPI>--Maoist extremists, wearing red helmets, hurled fire bombs at the U.S. and Soviet embassies Thursday in protest against President Ford's .Japanese visit and hiss summit meeting with Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev. 
WASIIIN<;ToN <UPI>-Reacting to a fatal mid-air crash between a jet fighter and a private plane, the National Transportation Safety Board said Thursday that military pilots should keep out of the public airways when chasing each other in mock battle. 
SAN AN<;F.I.O, Tt>x <UPI>-Appointment of the first female U.S. Air l<'orce base commander in the world was announced Thursday. 
Col. Norma E. Brown has been named commander of Goodfellow AFB in San Angelo. Col. Brown is presently commander of the 6970th Air Base Group at Ft. Meade, Md. She will assume her new assignment Nov. 29, succeeding Col. John Venay. Goodfellow AFB is a security base with approximately 3,000' military and 1,000 
civilian personnel. 
an campus taday 
friday, november 15, 1974 
12-1 pm-skating, faculty & students, free, ace ice rink. 
12:15 pm -lecture, "educational programs related to global justice" by rev. don mcneill, faculty lounge, mem.lib. 3L30 pm -lecture, "the choice of a moral code: benevolence, im­partiality,or a veil of ignorance? by r. brandt, lib. faculty lounge. 5 pm -mass and dinner, bulla shed. 5 pm -vespers, evinsong, log chapel.
7 pm-meeting, "frl. night deal," spon. by the navigators. anon­denominational chrisst-centered fellowship, flanner penthouse. 
7:30 & 10 pm film, "a man for all seasons", $1, eng. aud. 
8 pm -lecture, "exploitation of black athletes in america" by dr. h. edwards, mem. lib. aud. 8 pm -lectur 
8 pm-concert, fall choral concert, smc music dept, o'laughlin aud. 8 
8:30pm -b'ball exhibition, athletes in action vs. nd, $1 adults, $0.50 students, ace. 9 pm-concert, dr. john and wind, stepan center. 
9-1 am -smc coffeehouse, 9-lau9 laura herzog, 10-mindie bright, 10:30-liebscher 9 dues, 11 :15-sheial rafferty, 12:15-kim antekeir, strawberry shakes $0.30, smc. 
10-1 am -nazz coffehouse, 10-al caccavalix group, 11-sail, 12-jon sa;vespm. basement Iafortune. 
saturday, november 15, 1974 11 am -multimedia show, "notre dame in review", eng. aud. 
1:30 pm -football, irish v. pittsburg, stadium. 7:30pm -hockey, nd dumps denver, ace. 
9:30 pm -beaux arts ball, uranus, talisman band, not tickets at door. arch. bid. 
sunday, november 17, 1974 
2:30 pm -hockey, nd v. denver, ace. 
4: 30 pm -vespers, evensong, lady chapel. 
8:15pm -concert, nd. orchestra with ralph lane, conductor, wash. hall. daily
10-4:45 pm -art exhibits,-bill kremer, one man show of ceramic sculpures, gallery l. -masterpieces from kress study coil, gallery 3. -20th cent. art, west gallery. 
12-5 pm -art exhibition, indiana fire ceramics show, mereau 
gallery.12-9 p -art exhibit, don crouch, etchings from "the american west series", hammes gallery.
12-9 pm -art exhibit, todd hoover, screen and silver prints, little theatre gallery. 

Court-ordered checkup could endanger former president 
Ry JACK V. FOX 
LONG BEACH, Calif. <UPll 
Richard Nixon, shaky and pale, went home from the hospital Thursday and his physician expressed concern that a court-ordered checkup by outside doctors could endanger the former President's recove­ry. 
Clad in light blue pajamas and a robe, Nixon was brought out a back service door in a ~heel~hair and helped into a hmousme for the drive to San Clemente with his wife, Pat 
Nixon had been r.eported close to death following an oper~~ion for his phlebitic condttiOn Oct 29, and Thursday he seemed to totter slightly on his feet as he stood for a few moments and shook hands with nurses and others who had cared for him_ 
Shortly after Nixon's depar­ture, Dr. John Lungren, the physician who has overseen his treatment. was asked about the imminent examination by three specialists appointed by Water­gate coverup trial Judge John 
J. Sirica. Lungren has said Nixon's 
blood  pressure  shoots  up  
markedly  when  exposed  to  
almost any  stress.  
He  was  asked  whether  an  
examination  by  the  team  to  
determine  if  he  were  fit  to  
U.S. 
31 ( Dixieway) North (Across from Hoi iday Inn) Bob Edwards, ND '50 



testify for the Watergate trial would constitute stress. 
"I would have to say yes, that it does," Lungren said_ "But it is a court order. I have no control over it. He has no control over it." 
Lungren said the question of Nixon giving testimony in some fashion was "his own decision." 
. In answer to another ques­tiOn, Dr. Eldon B. Hickman who performed the surgery t~ prevent flow of blood clots from Nixon's left leg to his heart and lungs. said he felt examination by the court-appointed doctors was "unnecessary." 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the 
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. Second clas~ POStilge paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Hickman said he would not want to risk such a step unless "I had the willingness and agreement of the patient" 
Lungren said "just honestly" he doesn't know how long Nixon should remain on a schedule of very restricted activity. 
He said the 61-year-old former chief executive would be under "watchful observa­tion" at San Clemente. 
A hospital bed has been placed in the bedroom at his home so his leg can be elevated. He will wear a surgical stocking on his left leg and has been advised to take only brief walks. 
Hickman was asked whethrr 
UJ~t atnlnnial Jfancukt ~oust 
he thought it would be possible to conduct the new examination at San Clemente or whether it might be necessary to have Nixon re-enter a hospital. 
llickman said that was up the to fhe three doctors but that he personally would not want to submit Nixon to the strain of going into a hospital again. 
Judge Sirica has instructed the tt·am to report back to the court on their findings by Nov. 
29. A spokesman for Dr. C'harles Hufnagle, chairman of the team. said Thursday, "the doctors have been iri touch with l'ach . other and are making tentative plans" as to time and place of lbe examination. 


"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
=*======~============================================::.==========:==========================w
t 35 Varieties of Pancakes :::: 
:;:=Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches ::;:; 
i~~j. Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :lll: 
:~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~: 
Your Host



THE WINERY 
2426 L"INCOLNWAY WEST--MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE 259-9046 
All the Finest European Cheeses Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods Oriental Cooking Ingredients 
10 '% Cheese & Fancy Food Discount to Faculty & Students French Bread & Croissants New York Cheesecake Greek Olives 
llllllllllllllllllllli 

HEUSEN® 




lTIOlJ 
-
= 
5 i 

ffi.JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIII--IUIDmiiiiDIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIDHIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ 
----------~----------­
Friday, November 15, 1974 the observer 
ND: Law school hosts open-house 
by Mary Egan Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Law School and the Pre-Law Society will hold an open-house in the law school lounge, this Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Student Bar Association President Chauncey Veatch, Co­ordinating Chairman John DePietro and Pre-Law Society President Thomas Demko will host Deans Thomas Shaffer and David Link of the ND Law School. They will all give a formal presentation and a question and answer session will follow. 
Second-year law students will give guided tours of the law building. Refreshments will be served. 
"The purpose of the open house is to help students at both SMC and ND who are interested in a law school. not necessarilv Notre Dame's, find out about one and the life of a law student," said Veatch. 
"Professional students are faced with certain time limitations, but we in the law school government believe very strongly that we should participate as fully as possible in the life of the Univer­sity," explained Veatch. 
student counsel 
'Tile Law Society is working with Brian McGinty, jui':hcuiJ coor­dinator for student government, on the possibility of having legal advocates assist in representing undergrads who face disciplinary proceedings. 
"We would try to assert an in­fluence through our involvement," said Veatch. This matter will be considered soon by SLC," he added. 
If passed, this resolution would mean that students facing disciplinary action could benefit (rom the counsel of law students, if they so desire. Law students would also benefit from the practice since the law school is prepared to give law students credit for this. 
projects 

The Law School wants to involve 
Notre Dame in nation events. The 
law school arranged for 
Georgetown law student David 
Erdman, president of the National 
Law Student Division of the 
American Bar Association to 
speak here next week. 
The school's goal is to elect 
several ND law students in sue­ceeding years to the Bar Association. The first step towards this goal was taken when Chauncey Veatch was elected chairperson of the Bar President's Association of the ABA at the National Convention. This is important because the law school had been minimally involved in the past and Notre Dame is an im­portant school in the Midwest. This circuit has always been disorganized, said Veatch. 
"The law school has cooperated with our Law School Alumni in setting up a national job placement service," said Veatch. An alumnus is in charge of each specific area of the country, he explained. 
"We also have groups working to raise money for our loan service," added Veatch. "A most helpful group has been the Law Wives Association. It sponsors a booth before football games selling quilts, pillows and dolls. 
During the October break, the law school and the Law Wives Association co-sponsored a dinner with Fr. Hesburgh. 
This year the law school is representing both the law students and the MBA students on the Academic Council. 

Hunger panel advocates more efficient use of resources to curb food crisis 

by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 

A further challenge to students to better use world resources was issued by Notre Dame graduate Al Sondej last night before a crowd of 35 in the Memorial Library Lounge. 
"If Americans would stop eating meat, enough grain would be available to take care of the world's hunger problems for the next year," Sondej said. "It takes ten pounds of grain to produce one pound of beef," he explained. 
Sondej, a campus familiar with his dining hall food-relief collec­tions, was one of four panelists discussing the ethics of world food, population, and energy problems. The panel, which was sponsored by the Non-Violence Program, also included Fr. Edward Mallory of the Theology Department, Professor Edward Manier of the Philosophy Department and Professor Basil O'Leary of the Non-Violence Program. 
Sondej asserted that because we live in a world of finite resources, men are faced with certain limitations in dealing with the food problem. 
"We can do certain things with our money, some of which will mean people will live, others· that they will die," stated Sondej. "World ecology is a function of both population and individual impact on the environment," he said. 
O'Leary advocated an ethical principle which he termed, "purely secular yet radical by contemporary standards." 
"We have to weigh the margin of 
utility, stated O'Leary. "In­
dividuals in the developed coun­
tries must look after and insure 
their own material subsistence. 
But above that level, they are 
committed to assisting with every 
means at their disposal the plight 
of the starving nations," he ex­
plained. 
O'Leary employed two analogies 
in his remarks to make his position 
clear. If we were to walk by 
someone drowning in a pond we 
would be obligated to assist on a 
purely secular basis. 
On the other hand, world famine 
is like a number of life boats on the 
sea after a shipwreck, no one's 
interest would be served if the boat 
with the chance of surviving let a group from another boat with no chance of surviving abandon their ship and board their own. In short, in a situation of scarcity we need to weigh discriminating factors as well as moral obligations, O'Leary explained. 
Manier, claiming not to be an ethicist, asserted that his concern in the world food problem was with the moral and political question involved in building a good society. Manier described his notion of the good society as a place where all members were granted their rights to health, care, education and welfare, and where all members outside of the society were also granted these rights. 
Manier stressed that he believed these things were individual human rights, not owed in charity but as a necessary item in creating a good world. 
Malloy stated he believed that the world hunger problem was a function both of the absence '>f population control and unequal distribution of world resources. 
Malloy noted, however, that he has certain ethical doubts about coercive methods of enforcing population control. Among these methods he cited forced sterilization and punitive abortion. 
Sondej reported a number of the difficulties in maintaining the present balance of the world's eco­system. 
Energy consumption is limited by the level of heat that can be disipated into the atmosphere, stated Sondej. "If we put more heat than one percent of the solar heat disipation into the atmosphere, mass climatic changes will result." 
Sondej also pointed out that water-use is limited to the run-off rate of 100 million cubic kilograms per year. "To produce a single automobile requires 100,000 gallons alone," he noted. 
Sondej explained that deforestation is a real problem in maintaining an ecological balance. 
(continued on page IJ) 


5:15 p.m. Sat. FR. BOB GRIFFIN C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. FR. RICHARD RUTHERFORD C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. FR. ED MALLOY C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. FR. BILL TOOHEY C.S.C. 
' '' ,'f ''· 

Student Bar Association President Chauncey Veatch will co-host the Law open house Sunday (photo by Andy Waterhouse). 
THE ROMA 
PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your Ho•t Frank Anqstasio 'A PIZZA YOUCANNO.T REFUSE' LIVE BANDS 0 N WEEKENDS Ca~l 234-3258 For Delivery 
' 

219 N. Mich. Ave. Down1own-· At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
~-----------------1-lliillllllll!!!!!!'!lllll@...,_.,.._ 
~ lr-

Pittsburgh Club 
Thanksgiving Bus 
Leaves Wed. 1:00 IVerri>ers $25 Signups Non-Members $28 Sunday 1\bv. 17 
6:30 P.M LAFORTUNE AIVPH. 
Pizza, 
ha If-price!!! 
Half price off below, regular prices 
JULIO'S PIZZA carry out 913Yl Lincolnway West South Bend phone 232-7919 
SPECIAL 
NOV. 15 & 16 one special per customer 

~-~~--Half price with this coupon Regular prices: 12" 14" 
Cheese $2.20 $2.65 Sausage 2.80 3.60 Mushroom 2.80 3.60 Pepperoni 2.85 3.65 Green Pepper 2.80 3.60 Ground Beef 2.80 3.60 Ham 2.85 3.65 Onion 2.30 2.80 Anchovy 2.95 3.70 
Combination any 2 items-cheese incl 3.35 4.35 any 3 items-cheese incl 3.60 4.60 any 4 items-cheese incl 3.85 4.85 
Open: Sun., Mon., Wed., & Thurs. 
from 4 p.m. to 11 p.m. Fri. & Sat. from 4 p.m. to 1 a.m. Closed Tuesday 
• • "' ~ ..~ • f ' • • • • • • • • ~ • • -• 
~------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
the 0 bS e ~r~v~e~r:______....:F:...!r~id~a~y.!...,...!:N~o"-ve,_,m=be"-'r_l,_,S:L,-=-19~74
4 

Ombudsman successors named 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Ombudsman Director . Bill McLean yesterday announced the appointment of his successors as Ombudsman director and chair­man of the Ombudsman Steering Committee. 
At a luncheon in the Morris Inn, MeLean introduced Jim Zorn and Tom Gibbons as the service director and committee chairman, respl•ctively. The appointments, wnich wt•re made by Student Body l'resid•!nt Pat McLaughlin, will hl'comt• l'ffective February 3, 1975. 
McLean said the appointment of Ow nPv: Ombudsman executives will allow thi!m several weeks' Pxperi.(•nce t-efore the SBP elec­tions m·xt st;-~ring. ··we hope the nPxl SBP ·.viii reappoint them at that time," !\~cLean noted. 
Zorn observed he would spend the next f.!W months "picking l\lcLt>an's brain" to acquaint himself with the procedures of his office. "Our service will continue along the same lines as we did under Bill,'' Zorn, a Flanner fresh­man, stated. 
"Our first concern will be to get all the new people set so we'll be ready to go in February," Zorn added. He said the Ombudsman would work through the channels of communication which already exist and also try to open up "new lines where communication is still lacking." 
Gibbons explained his position as chairing a group of four Om­budsman Executive Board members. The steering committee will deal with policy matters and officer selections. 
''My major job will be to serve as advisor to Jim Zorn," said Gib­bons. a junior management major and Stanford Hall resident. 
McLean also announced the membership of the Ombudsman Advisory Board. On the board will be Dr. Robert Ackerman, student affairs professional development director; William Berry, electrical engineering professor; Gregory Curme, economics professor; and Juan Garcia, history graduate student. 
Also. Dr. Peter Grande, assistant Dean of the freshman year; Mildred Kristowski, law school director of placement; Vincent Raymond, business ad­ministration associate dean; James Roemer, university counsel; and Fr. James Riehle, Pangborn rector. 

Also, Fr. James Shilts, physics professor; Dr. Lillian Stanton; 'ichar<U~ullivan, registrar; Joanne Szaffron, Walsh rectress; and Robert Waddick, assistant dean of 
Arts  and  Letters.  Berry  was  
selected to serve  as  chairman of  
the group.  

"These are people who cannot only give us sound advice but who can get things done," McLean stated. 
The advisory board is divided into four units: planning, award, academic and assistance. The Planning Unit is designed to lOordinate the work of the other units. 
The OAB Award Unit is designed to recognize outgoing students for outstanding work in non-academic pursuits, McLean said. "Students who contribute and sacrifice for the community often do not get the best grades," McLean observed. He said the award committee would present such student s with letters of commendation which could h~ the students in seeking positions after graduation. 
The OAB Academic Unit, ac­cording to McLean, would serve two purposes. The first function is to help keep students working for the Ombudsman service from ignoring their studies. The second is to help with Ombudsman education programs, such as workshops and briefings. 
"This will not be a grade grievance group," McLean noted. He said the unit will help "facilitate new course ideas" for the University as a whole. 
The Assistance Unit is a "catch­all" department which will help with Ombudsman projects not covered by the other units. One function of the group will be to help develop better relations with South Bend, McLean said. 
Berry stated the advisory board's primary purpose "is to lend stability and support for the Ombudsman organization." He said the members of the board have been helping the Ombudsman as individuals for a year and a half. 
(continued on page 5) 

Rolling 201: HOW TO ROLL BETTER 
Required Textbooklet: e-z wider 
1.~ 
Fold the paper (approx 10 ") at the end that Isn't gummed. Sprinkle tobacco Into this fold. Put more at the ends than In the mid­dle Close the paper over the tobacco. But don't tuck It in back of the tobacco just yet. 
3. 

Spin the tobacco by sliding the paper back and forth a number of times 
5. 
~ 
\)(\~~ 
Roll the cigarette tightly, beginning at the c£nter, and by pulling. work your fingers oul to the ends 
Prof. E. Z. Jay

2.\tt 
Hold both halves ol the paper, cradling the tobacco inside with your thumbs closest to you and your second and third lingers in back. 
4. 


When the tobacco is shaped and packed: pinch the tobacco and the paper at the cen­ter so that when you start to roll, the paper will guide Itself around the tobacco. 

Lick the gummed edge closed Trim loose tobacco !rom the ends. The cigarelle is now ready to smoke 
This course Is open to both beginning and advanced students of hand-rolled cigarettes. Emphasis is on easier, better rolling via the use of E·Z Wider double-width rolling papers. The course exposes the disadvantages of conventional rolling practices such as sticking two regular papers together to roll one smoke. Students will Jearn that there is no better gummed paper made than E-Z Wider. 



The Glenmary Home Missioners are looking for men and women who believe in people. Share yourself with the people of the South and Ap­palachia as a Priest, Brother or Sister. 
0 Send free 17" x 22" poster, shown above 0 Please send information about Glenmary Home Missioners 
GLENMARV, Room # Box 46404, Cincinnati, Ohio 45242 
Name__________________________________Age _____ 
Address__________________City_______________ 
Zip________________________Phone__________________ 
.. 
... ... 4 4 ... 4 .................. ~...... , ... ·~ ............I ........................... . 

0 ~ :. !; , ,_.. ~ 
0 • ' e t J • o ' ~· • • ;1 1• • .. • I • -t fw ',.' ·~ J t t •
• • # •••
•• 0 

----------------------~--------------------------------------~ 
f~iday, November 15, 1974 the observer 
5 

LaRue discusses hush money role 
By JANE DENISON ling, was that if these commitments?" demanded on March 21, 1973. 
Mitchell and I did."

WASHINGTON <UPI) -Fred commitments were not kept, Mitchell lawyer William G. That payment was one of the About the same time, accord­LaRue, who inherited the task these defendants might disclose Hundley when it was his turn to most controversial of thf' ing to earlier testimony, Nixonof passing cash to the certain information they had cross examine. Watergate case. Earlier tes­was meeting with his top aidesWatergate burglars, testified that would lead back to the "No, I did not,' replied timony and White House tapes to discuss the Hunt demand,Thursday he had no doubt the Committee to Re-Elect the LaRue, who earlier testified he indicate it had Nixon's blessing and concluded that acceding to money was meant to keep them President." had been told of the commit­and was made after Hunt it was something that "damnquiet so the truth would never A close friend and confidant ments by bugging conspirator demanded $135,000 with a well better get done fast." The come out. of former Attorney General and G. Gordon Liddy. threat to reveal "seamy' things indictment charges the wordThat truth, LaRue told the Nixon campaign manager John "Did you try to find out?" he had done for the White was immediately passed to
Watergate cover-up jury in his N. Mitchell. LaRue said he took asked Hundley. House unless the demand was Mitchell. soft Mississippi drawl, was that over payments to the seven­"No I did not " LaRue met. 
LaRue said he called Mitchellthe 1972 campaign to re-elect man bugging team in the fall of replied. ' LaRue testified that White and told him that Hunt wasRichard Nixon was responsible 1972 when Nixon attorney "Did anybody try to find House counsel John W. Dean demanding $75,000 for attorneyfor the bugging and was buying Herbert W. Kalmbach refused out?" Hundley asked. III called him the morning of fees. He quoted Mitchell asthe silence of the men who to have anything more to do "I have no knowledge about March 21 to report that Hunt replying, "Under those circum­carried it out. with it. that," said LaRue. was demanding $75,000 for legal stances, I think you ought to

"My understanding was that Mitchell is one of the five But he said he had discussed fees and $60,000 for family pay it." the payments were to fulfill the former Nixon aides now on trial the "commitments" to the support. 
LaRue said he did not tellcommitments that had been for conspiracy in the cover-up burglars with Mitchell many "He said he was no longer in Mitchell about the $60,000 Huntmade to the defendants," plot. times after the June 19, 1972, the money business and was was demanding for familyLaRue said when asked by the "During the course of your bugging arrests and that it was very apprehensive about the support and immediately madeprosecution what the purpose whole participation in the Mitchell himself who authorized operation," LaRue testified. 

arrangements to deliver fhe 

was. Watergate affair did you ever a final $75,000 payment to "He said he was withdrawing $75,000 to. Hunt's attorney that"My understanding, or fee-find out who made these conspirator E. Howard Hunt Jr. from it...he told me to call Mr. night. 
For b-ball, volleyball 
Stepan to 

by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 

Br. Just Paczesny, Vice­President for Student Activities gave approval earlier this week for interhall sporting events to be held in Stepan Center this winter. In­tramural competition in basket­hall and volleyball will be run through the Non-Varsity Sports office. in cooperation with the Student Affairs office. 
The main reason in using Stepan 

Paczesny 

OAB to aid Ombudsman 
(continued from page 4) 
"This board brings some of the 
people together with whom the 
Ombudsman has worked to solve 
problems," Berry noted. "I'm 
looking forward to working with 
the group and seeing just what we 
can do together." 
McLean observed that the OAB 
is "also intended to be a safeguard 
against internal abuse or misuse of 
the Ombudsman Service and its 
resources." In this way, the board 
provides a secondary option (in 
addition to the Student Govern­
ment) for students who wish to 
complain about the Ombudsman 
service. 
McLean added that the OAB is a 
formalized group consisting of a 
few of the people who have helped 
his service through the year. He 
said that there are many other 
people he would like to involve in 
the OAB someday. 
The director said the mem­bership of the OAB contains people of diverse backgrounds and talents. He stated his hope that they will be able to help the Om­budsman service "cut through the red tape" and serve as mediators with the administration. 
Center lies in the fact that the gym facilities presently available cannot adequately handle the expanding intramural sports program. 
"Stepan Center will soon be used to handle the overflow at the Rock and ACC," explained Fr. Dave Schlaver, Director of Student Activities. Schlaver also related that court lines would be painted on Stepan's concrete floor. 
While new equipment such as basketball backboards will be needed, the source for funds to purchase these supplies is presently unknown, according to Tom Kelly, assistant director of non-varsity sports. Schlaver was likewise uncertain at this time from where the money qould come. 
While new equipment such as • •
Schlaver

basketball backboards will be : College of Bus. Administration :
needed, the source for funds to Schlaver, however, offered a • •purchase these supplies is 
more optimistic timetable, : lkliversity of Denver :
presently unknown, according to guessing that the sporting •
Tom Kelly, assistant director of • •
£facilities will be ready after

non-varsity sports. Schlaver was • 
likewise uncertain at this time Thanksgiving. The Student Ac­.,• .• 
tivities director admitted that any

from where the money would •
prediction at this time was ten­come. 

tative, since a planning committee •A tenative date for the initiation has not yet been formed.
of the Stepan Center "gym" is also MBA· focus on broad man!Jgerial:
The basketball and volleyballin question between the two of­courts, when they are finally

fices. Kelly speculated that concepts & principles of :
opened, can be used Mondaybecause construction and through Thursday, 6 p.m.-10p.m.

scheduling plans must still be particular interest to :
However, intramura1 play mustworked out, intramural activities give way to other events scheduledwould not begin until the second •• 

for Stepan Center, according to • Liberal Arts Science & : semester. 
Schlaver. 

C.AC. CINEMA '75 PRESENTS 
A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS 
Directed by Fred Zinneman 
Starring Paul Scofield Wendy Hiller 
FRIDAY AN> SATlRDAV 

Engineering Auditorium 7:30 & 10 P.M. Admission $1.00 
Patrons Free 

• •• Engineering students : 
• • 
* 

iMSBA • Specialization in a ! : • functional area of : 6 : Bus. Administration : 
• 

• : MPA · Errphasis on concepts & : ! principles of Admnistrative: ! management and : : government. i 
• 

• : A Representative of College of : : Bus. Administration will be on : 
: campus Nov. 20. If interested : : sign up for an interview in the : ! Placement office. ! 
···········································••# 

~------~----------~-------------------------------------------­
6 

the observer Frid~, Novemb~r 15, 19~ 
············································~ 
.Aerospace· p-of dies • • 
THIS VVEEKEND AT THE :
Cancer claims Novotny : •• • •• • 
by Don Reimer 
Staff Reporter 
Dr. Jerome Novotny, professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, died yesterday en­ding a five-month fight against cancer. 
A memorial Mass will be celebrated at 5:15 p.m. today at Sacred Heart Church. The Mass will be concelebrated by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Fr. James Burchaell and Fr. Ferdinand Brown. 
The cancer which caused the 40 year-old professor's death w~s first discovered in July of this vear. Novotny was hospitalized during the summer and underwent two operations in recent months. 
Novotny appeared to be winning his battle with the disease in the months just preceeding his death. lie had returned to the university at the beginning of this semester to l'Ontinue his research and teaching, and he was gaining weight in the past few weeks. He suffered a relapse, however, early this week, and passed away quietly near 8 a.m. Thursday. 
After receiving his Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota in 

Windows shatter during campus snowball fight 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 
A midnight campus-wide snowball fight Wednesday night resulted in the breaking of win­dows of several halls. 
The south quad snowball fight ended with the vestibule windows of Dillon broken and windows of Alumni, Badin and Walsh broken also. 
On the north quad, another battle raged on with members of Keenan­Stanford, Grace, Flanner, Zahm and Cavanaugh flinging snowballs at each other. Firecrackers and pop bottle rockets added to the con~sion as they were fired into the Fighting masses. 
There were approximatiely 300 men and a handful of women in­volved in the cold war. Several windows were broken in Keenan and a door window of Grace was cracked. 
Other damages included the glasses of the Keenan Hall rector being broken as he approached a high school youth throwing snowballs at the Keenan windows. 

1963, Novotny taught at both his alma mater and the University of Delaware. His major included the areas of heat transfer, ther­modynamics and fluid mechanics. 
Novotny came to Notre Dame in 1965 as an assistant professor and was promoted in 1969 to full professor. He was very active in the College of Engineering, ser­ving . on numerous committees since 1969. The work of Novotny in the area of heat ransfer gained national recognition for the University's heat-transfer group. 
On the national level, Novotny was well-known and highly respected. He served on several national committees and chaired seven national and international meetings during his career. The professor delivered lectures at various colleges and universitiees since 1967, including Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He also authored or co-authored 36 scientific articles. 
Novotny's collegues in the College of Engineering generally described him as "hard-working, well-respected and extremely conscientious." 
Dr. K. T. Yang, department 

A third floor window had been broken and Fr. Conyers went outside to investigate the situation. 
As he went outside, he caught a South Bend high school youth throwing snowballs at the win­dows. 
"I asked him what he was doing and he said that he was 'having fun.' I then asked him for his ID card and he said that he left it in his room, so I asked him to wait inside for Security," Conyers said. "He started to get away and, as he did, I reached for him and that's when my glasses got knocked off and lost." 
Two tremendously huge snowballs were placed in front of the double-door passages of the Towers. 
There were reported injuries, perhaps not connected with the wars on the quads. A girl was rushed to the hospital that night at 
1:30 a.m. with a possible broken hip. A male student was taken to the hospital at 3:30 a.m. with a mild concussion and then brought to the Infirmary at 5:30 that morning. 
chairman of mechancial and aerospace engineering, described Novotny as, "one of the most productive teachers and resear­chers in the college. He was the kind of guy who expressed his feelings, but was willing to listen to others and agree if they proved him wrong," continued Yang. 
Yang also mentioned that a menorial fund is being set up in Novotny's name to help deserving stuents to prepare for college teaching. 
Associate Dean of Engineering Edward Jerger, who was Novot­ny's first departmental chairman, said, "he had a great deal of promise and was presently well on his way to becoming a top man in his field." Novotny was charac­terized by Jerger as "very dedicated to doing a thorough job in both teaching and research." 
"He was very hard-working, conscientious, and loyal to the university." 
A fellow professor and personal friend, Associate Professor John Lloyd, commented, "he was hard­driving. He knew what he was doing, where he was going, and he worked very hard to get there. He was a very strong person." 
Lloyd pointed out that Novotny continued working even while he was in the process of fighting the disease and sighted this as typical of Novotny's "hard-driving" nature. 
"Everyone held him with a great deal of respect both for his honesty an d his tremendous drive," noted Lloyd. 


~SENIOR CLUB. 
• 
• 


•

CRUISE ON BY FOR THE PITT WEEKEND EXTRAVAGANZA 
HOURS: FRIDAY 5:00 -2:00 
SATURDAY 10:00-game! after game -2:00 : •
• 

aUB CARDS ON SALE AT THE Do~: 
chemical engineers, mechanical engineers, industrial engineers and metallurgical engineers. 

We'll be interviewing at University of Notre Dame 
Let us tell you about your opportunities with a large and growing company. Arrange for an interview at your Placement Office, or write to Karen Hammer, Supervisor of College Relations, Koppers Company, Inc., 200 Koppers Building, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219. 
·:-· ;·_..-, .. ""­

OPTIONS 
INTERVIEW KOPPERS COMPANY, INC. 

12/5/74 
Koppers Company, Inc. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219 

KOPPERS 
Chemicals clnd Coatings Plastics Engineered Products Environmental Systems Engineering 
and Construction Architectural and Construction Materials 
I o 1 1 • Ill t · 0 o o o t 11 t t 1 of .. ' 

t t • • •• 
I.J.I.I ,,l,,l ).,I I.' 
Friday, November 15, 1974 the observer 
7 

ND-SMC to sponsor bicentenial in March 
"An academic conference under Both features, the academic committee has been contactingStudies Program; Jack Detzler ofby Mary Reher the working title of "An Almost · conference and the cultural ac-department chairmen and thethe St. Mary's College Develop­Staff Reporter Chosen People: The Moral tivities, are expected to extend directors of other universityment Committee; and Conklin.
A bicentennial festival will be Aspirations of Americans," will be over a duration of four or five days, gro~ps, suggesting that they relate "At this stage of planning theresponsored by Notre Dame and St. 
presented in the Center for Con-but the exact dates have not beeen their calendar of activities toare just three or four studentsMary's College in March of 1976, tinuing Education," said Conklin. determined yet, accoring to bicentennial themes.
working on the bicentennial" said announced Information Services Dr. Walter Nicgorski, associate Conklin. "There are two ways of doingAugie Grace, junior classDirector, Richard Conklin, professor of the General Program, "We do expect to invite com-this," Conklin said. " We can usepresident, "but more will get in­
yesterday afternoon. is chairman of the academic munity participation," noted historical treatment of the arts,
volved as the program gets bigger, A steering committee of four conference portion of the festival. Conklin, "because we feel it is an suchas a concert of colonial music. 
and we hope to eventually involvemembers, appointed last year by "Nationally known speakers will important ingredient. The events Or '_Ve can present contemporary _the whole St. Mary's--Notre DameProvost Fr. James Burtchaell is be invited to give talks," Conklin will be open to the South Bend music that reflects themes per­community."
planning festival activities. The added. "I cannot give any names community and some of the sistent throughout the history ofConklin explained that the twomembers are Chairman Thomas right now because we haven't sent cultur~l a.reas.~ight involve local America. We don't necessarilymain features of the festival will be Bergin, dean of the Center for out letters of invitation yet. We do organ~zabons. . . need to confine ourselves to thean academic conference andContinuing Education; Ronald have people in mind, though," he Besides plannmg the festival, the colonial period," he explained.
cultural activities.
Weber, director of the American 
emphasized. ************************************ 
Junior class to hold /ormal-P?~~f~fe~e~~~~nedt~ati~r::t:~i~~ .._*~ HOPS 'N' SPIRITS~;
discussed m the conference might ~ ~. d . M• h . be published in a book.
next rl ay ln lC lgan He. also noted that University * -tc
F President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh ~ -tc will celebrate a bicentennial Mass 8 2 rcJ1 -tc with a special liturgy and a ~ 1 E. LasaIIe St. H. t In an effort to "do something might be due in part to the Doobie reception to follow. * · -tc different" the junior class has Bros. concert that evening, which "Cultural activities in music, art * h ~·.Y ~ decided to go outside the Notre was booked in the ACC by a private and drama will be weaved in and !!:" p Q n e 287.2 5 81 rt-l\ -tc 
Dame community in sponsoring a promoter and had not been an-out of the conference program," ~ ~ 
ticipated. Conklin explained. "Mainly, * ......_ ~
formal dance next Friday, Nov. 22. Entertainment for the evening 
"But even for those who are however, the cultural events will * ~ ~ will be provided by "Flight," a going to see the concert, the formal take place in evening." * B W A-d · \ ~ 
professional group from Chicago, would be an excellent place to go Dr. William Cerny, chairman of : eer . ne ~SO rfe LiqUOrS 1, ·-·~ ,.-!_ rather than a local group. Also, the afterwards," Grace urged. The the department of music, will be in .,. event will be held at the Four Flags dance will begin at 9 p.m. and charge of the cultural events ~ (including Jose Cuervo TEQUILA) t 
Inn in Niles, Mich., rather than on continue until 1 a.m. portion of the festival. .._ campus. r----~~~~~~~~a. 
~**********************************/

"Flight" is an eight-piece brass band, which has been together professionally for five years. After their appearance at Notre Dame, they will begin a three-month tour of Arizona and California. 
The group plays for both a listening and dancing audience, performing material from Chicago, Blood, Sweat and Tears, Santana, Grand Funk and the Doobie Bros. 
The dance will be held in the ballroom and adjoining the lounge of the Four Flags Inn. The Four Flags is located in downtown Niles, off U.S_ 31 <maps are available at the Student Union Ticket Office). 
Tables will be set up in the lounge, leaving most of the ballroom as a dance floor. Snacks will be provided and refreshments can be purchased at the cash bar. 
It is not a true "formal" dance, rather an opportunity to get dressed up and enjoy an evening of dancing, according toAugi Grace, .JUnior class presidaent. 
Tickets, at $5 per couple, are linited to 200 juniors and their guests. They can be purchased now at the Student Union Ticket Office, in La Fortune, from any junior class officer, or at Friday's Happy Hour at Kubiak's. 
Grace stated that only about half the tickets have been sold and urged juniors to buy theirs now. "If ticket sales continue slowly, we may open it up to the other classes around Wednesday," he said. 
Grace noted that the slow sales 
CAP is blaDEd 
for troubles in 
pre-registration 
(continued from page 1) 
DeCicco further emphasized that student-athletes must schedule all classes before 3 
p.m. which "straps the athlete in his freedom of choice of classes." He also flatly denied the existence of academic programs exclusively for student athletes, and ex­claimed that "the image and mystique about student-athletes here is wrong." 
Still others blamed the students within the Committee for Academic Progress <CAP) for registration problems. 
Students within the CAP are allowed to preregister for some courses the night before preregistration officially begins. The CAP is given a limited number of cards by the teachers of certain courses that are usually filled quickly. These cards are di­stributed among the CAP members on a class basis. / 
i­
t of the man who leftalasting legacy ofhonor and glory to the game of football and the University of Notre Dame. 

Wells Twombly is a featured sports columnist for The San Francisco Examiner; winner of many awards for outstanding journalism; the author of Blanda, and Fireworks and Fury. 
366 pages, 25 photos, available in October $8.95 
"Itwas never necestaryto identify which coach we were talking about. There was only one Coach, and you spelled it with a capital letter. No other man in his pro­fession could compete with him in any way ... He was The Coach-The Master Coach ... Frank Leahy was the greatest man I ever knew. His story should not be permitted to die." -Billy Sullivan, former president, New England Patriots 
" .•• He was damn close to being a saint." -Roger Valdlsierrl, Sports lnformaUon Director, University of Notre Dame 
·---~--~------­

THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPEN·OENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
BUSINESS: 213-7471

EDITORIALS: 213-1661 NEWS: 213-1715 
F.-.cl Gr•ver EdHori•l EdHor 
Bob MctMnus Advertising tMn.aer 
Tom Dr•pe tMrlene ZlouEditor-In-Chief 
tMn.glng Editor Bob lops
Terry Keeney 
Business IMn.ger
News Editor 
Friday, November 15, 1974 

Tea and Rice 
Twenty million people will starve to death. Before the spring brings us Mardi Gras, An Tostal, and new academic worries, twenty million human beings shall be dead of famine. Twenty million. 
Imagine, twenty million people star­ving to death. Not the relatively quick and easy death guns or heart attacks or sudden violent acts bring. But the slow, hard death starvation brings. Then too, in famine, there is the utter despair of impotence: watching the whole of one's world die too. The anguish of seeing one's village and ultimately one's own family die. Consider the apocolyptic horror of a woman who must not only see her own life fail, but also her child's because she cannot feed it. 
Before the season is over some twenty million people will die from such suf­fering in areas across the globe. Twenty million -enough to fill the Notre Dame dining halls FOUR THOUSAND times. 
As the U.N., the World Food Con­
ference and our own government debate 
the "issue " and spin off a myriad of 
complex obstacles to any real solution, 
people die and we eat. Governmental 
inaction and material prosperity have 
numbed us so badly that most of us 
eannot fathom the suffering that daily 
,,ccurs in Africa, Asia, and even Latin 
America. Because of the bureaucracy 
of a government which subsidizes far­
mers to plow under tremendous acres of 
wheat, and which ineptly stumbles 
over its own bulk, we are virtually 
powerless to save even one of the twenty million. All that is left to us as the federal government pursues the phantom of a generation of peace is pr~yer and sensitivity to the agony and pain of those dying in famine stricken parts of the earth. 
On November 26, this community will sit down to a-supper of tea and rice. More food than many persons receive in a week. Sharing t this meal will do little to ease the hunger of millions. 
Money saved by foregoing a regular dinner will be sent to the starving. That is painfully little. Those who eat this simplest of meals will reaffirm the oldest sign of solidarity. That is painfully little. They will on the night share the affliction which daily sends thousands not to bed, but to death, hungry. One night of hunger is also painfully little. 
But it is something. 
Little as it may be, it is a start. Hopefully, it will bring a deeper com­passion and a more urgent concern for those who must die so hard a death. Perhaps, just perhaps, such compassion and concern will spread and ultimately move those holding power to a massive relief of the pain which slaughters so many. 
Release your dining hall number and forego dinner for tea and rice on the Tuesday before Thanksgiving when this nation blesses God for what millions lack. On one evening suffer minutely the affliction of hunger that slowly, tortuously takes so many lives. 
Robert Baker 

I will not eat the regular meal in the Dining Hall on Tuesday evening, November 26, and I will join in the rice and tea meal. Name____________________ _ Dining Hall No.________ 
Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition 
Dpinian 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

the morning 
never comes 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
mike davis 

Let us not fool ourselves. There is no such thing as an energy crisis, it was always easy to get gas. There is no such thing as the food crisis, it is still easy to get food. This is another trick by agroup of people who are trying to raise prices and take money from the American people. There have been times when I have been temp­ted to believe these things. They are possibilities. The power of mass advertising is a great appeal to the senses. We can be ap­palled just as easily by a picture of a starving child as we can by a decapitated horse in a film like the Godfather. It could be all a trick. 
It is a shame to say that these two things may have the exact same impact on our v ~rsion of reality. After all we have never seen anyone killed like that and we have never seen anyone starve to death. Those things are out there in pictures. Mass media is powerful but it is convenient. When we don't want to see the picture anymore, we flip off the tube, turn our heads or leave the theater. It is a nice, neat way of handling things. It is efficient. 
There is a difference, though. The film stops. The hunger doesn't. It gnaws into the very marrow of your stomach, robbing you of any thought save a piece of bread or a bowl of rice. After that it swells the stomach till it almost bursts and it won't go away--God, it won't go away! It is like a bad nightmare haunting the essence of your being, searching out your existence and dragging it down to its knees. It just never goes away--it won't, it can't, it doesn't. 
This is no television program or movie, it is life in the un­der~eveloped countries of the world. It is rotten teeth, and dying babies, and worst of all, an eternity of hunger. This is what is happening to planet earth and we can't switch it off, this is like the bad movie that doesn't go off. It is the endless succession of late night movies that won't stop--and the morning never comes. 
So what can we do about it? Well there are two things. You can refuse to admit that it exists. You can ignore it and not make it a part of your reality. If that its the case you might as well die for you were dead long ago. Atleast the starving people have despair. You don't have anything but an empty shell. 
There is another solution. Don't shut it out, don't ignore it. Deal with it, take it in, express your solidarity. And if you are there enough, mortify yourself. James Carrol says: "Mortification happens when a person takes responsibility for himself, for his actions, for his living, for his dying ... Mortification is a symbolic action that says something about mankind in concrete language ... Mortification is a form of consciousness in which my world includes yours ... Mortification is the way to question the fundamental assumptions of each age and each institution from this standpoint: do they enable or prevent human life to the full?" This is not something in a theology class, this is you and I dealing with the problem of world hunger. 
Who am I to say these things? I am a human being and I cannot deny that one half of my brothers and sisters starve while the other half close their eyes and turn on their television sets while eating a big batch of popcorn and drinking a beer. This is my solidarity and if I deny it, than I am less than human. 
There is a real dnger that those who participate in this will be claiming their share of the solution to the hunger crisis. Those who participate could be smug and self-righteous about it. Those who don't participate can say with great justification--what good will it do? For the good, we are sending the money saved to the hungry people. This is very pragmatic and it is accomplishing something. As for the smugness, it is a real danger. To delude ourselves by thinking that we are really accomplishing something big is wrong. 
Humility is required for this to be a success on all fronts. The c~oice to participate or not is yours entirely. You may not see any viable reason for fasting and eating a rice meal. It could be if you don't see any point ir, it that you should not do it. However the alternatives in this land of plenty are few. If you don't do this,' you have done worse than debunked the futility of this fast. You have done nothing. 
Join in the fast on November 26th and come to the Mass given by
please leave this form in the dining hall suggestion box 
Father Hesburgh. Let them know that we are alive and well in 
DOONESBURY 
HfY, SCOTTY, NOT "SCOTTY"/ WHEN'S FROM MJIVON ITS 
)t:J(JR 800K tv. 5. SlOAN, J~. 60/NG 10... I 
\ 

9E A GOOP tAP rrs Yotl, ANIJGET THAT.IIIIU.. fUANNA 1//.S. S/..OAN, JR.! 
5COT; ITS Y~ ZONKP IP IT~ ~N THAT IT'SMYN~ 
/?£AUY YOU/ MY Pt/8l/SH/ite TUL. ONE 8YME MJM /Je PL(IME. 
HIM rM !NCON­A6A!N,R£V7 
/?!NG/ \ FCR£NC&! I
I 
\ 
f 
South Bend. 

by Garry Trudeau 
GOTCHA! «<H/tt 7HATP8E I'M UP, SHAU.. tklt/.Y PtCENT 
I GET Y(J(I tJrWf40tP 
A GRANT's? SPORT/ 
' 
I 

___t, he o b s e r v e r 
Night Editor -Bill Brink Ass't Night Editor -Valerie Zurblls, Mary Janca Layout -Katie Kerwin, Dan Sanchez Copy Reader -Tim Eder, Ken Bradford Day Editor -Valerie Zurblls, Mary Egan Editorials -Fred Graver, Dan Sanchez Features -Robert Baker Sports -Greg Corgan, VIc Dorr, Peggy Lawlor, Bill Delaney Typists -Anne Peeler, Barb Haug, Janet Carney, Tom Modglin, Don Ross, Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator -Bob Steinmetz Picture Screener -Albert D'Antonio All-day, All-night ad layout -Tom Whelan Assistant -Bob Tracy Night Controller -Dave Rust 

--------~--------------------------------------~--~~--~------------­
Friday, November 15, 1974 the observer 
9 

nllmmmmmmlmmmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
autrider 


Electoral Conservatism 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
After the recent election there was talk of massive political dislocation, of a stunning blow to Republicans and a Democratic landlside. of the signs of approaching third­partyism. Cartoonists showed us a beaming donkey and a battered elephant. And, relatively, it was a big electoral turnaround. 
The Democrats won well over twice the congressional seats normally taken back in 
presidential governors'  off chairs  years, <in plus cluding  some the  big two  
biggest>.  .  

But to say all this is merely to remind ourselves of the basic conservatism of .our electoral system. We speak of a major dislocation when we mean that roughly 10 percent of the congressional seats changed partisan custody--44 or so out of 435. Three out of 100 Senate seats changed hands-3 percent. The gubernatorial changeover was about 8 percent. Or, to take one of the major ''indicators" in the last election, we were told that the voters punished members of the House Judiciary Committee--a punish­ment that affected five members, or just over one percent of the House membership. 
I repeat this is considered an outside development, because the normal electoral displacement is only half of that, or less. Our politics is incremental with regard to elections. 
Many things make it so. Inertia, a presumption in favor of the incumbent­which is in itself a vote for the system as satisfactory or else so refractory that no step as slight as casting a vote can do much about it. 
The last judgment is by and large a valid one. No drastic alternatives are offered at election time. When drastic steps·are taken­-the initiating of a war, the tooling up of the New Deal, the imposing pf price controls-­they occur in the time between elections. Franklin Roosevelt ran for office in 1932 promising a balanced budget and criticizing the wild expenditures of Herbert Hoover. In 1917. 1941, and 1965 it was proved that the way to take this nation into war is, first of all. the get elected by promising there will be no war. 
the vacation and those students had no choice but to study during this "vacation." Students are not financially independent many had no choice but to leave and go 

To Fr. Toohey 
Dear Fr. Toohey, 

I was very pleased to read your column November 6, to read what a nice trivial vacation you had. It must be nice not to have a care or financial worry at this time. I'm also happy you have the time to enjoy this vacation and get the chance to do many things we would all like to participate in. 
But  Father, it is just too  bad the  
students  were  not  able  to  enjoy  such  a  
break.  

It appears as if the majority of students at this university were not able to just sit back and relax during the break, and wasn't that the reason behind the break, relaxation? Ask around, Father, and see how many students were forced to take home their books to study. The students took this action not because they are overly studious, but rather due to the great amount of work given right before and iue immediately 
~;~ a r r y wiIIs 
There should be nothing surprising in all of this. Each party begins with its natural constituency more or less assured. and then tries--without losing that first constituency­to woo the uncommitted in the middle. This means they both end up saying much the same thing, aiming at the same potential voters. Both sides, of course, are tugged back slightly from full consensus by the traditions of their first constituency, but both sides try to blur these differences as the electoral deadline nears. 
Thus the vote means pracically nothing in policy terms. It reflects mood, and can give a retrospective approval (to FDR's New Deal in 1936) or disapproval (to Nixon's criminalities). But in general it affirms a rather blind faith in the mass of our rulers. We expect most of them to be returned, and talk apocalyptically when the party tur­nover edges up past five percentage points. 
Insofar as people directly affect the choice of policies, they do it more, now by way of the opinion polls than by way of election. Few candidates risked their campaigns by taking a clear-cut position on wage-price controls this autumn. But when the administration weights this necessary step, and legislators have to take a stand on it, they will respond to the opinion polls that are swinging drasticaly in favor of control. A candidate has to satisfy just the con­figuration of voter preferences that will suit his first constituency and the winnable uncommitteds in his district. Oddly enough, he is freer .to respond to public opinion across a vast spectrum when he is not facing election. 
This exactly reverses most of our political scientists' doctrines on the meaning of elections. But our politics has never been what it pretended to be And yet, by and large, our politics is not a bad thing. It works in ways it was not supposed to, in way we rarely recongize or describe well. We have a conservatism no one has identified as such--one that has nothing to do with right wing views at all; or with left wing views for that matter. 
Halls. True, the South Dining Hall pay cafe was open, but the fact stands that the quality of the food has deteriorated to the point that almost no dinner is worth the $2.50 price. Students were not even given a discount. Because of this factor, I was one of the students forced to leave. 
To help pay for this glorious "vacation", which according to the opinion polls con­ducted, the students never wanted nor needed before, I had to work from 9-6 Tuesday through Saturday. After finishing work on Saturday I then had to begin the trip back to school from Boston. I can't begin to guess where the people from the west coast went. Also, I made the attempt to work upon my thesis for history, but this type of research is a little difficult in a house with four other siblings. Due to work I did not have the time to attempt to drive to Boston to use one of their universities' libraris. When I arrived on campus Sunday night, I realized that I now needed a break to recover from the "vacation." 
I was not able to afford the luxury of three 

seriausly! falks 
i.IIIIDHIIIIIIIIIUIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-1111 

The Missing Precinct 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

art: buchwald 
CANTON, Ohio--On election night millions and millions of Americans watched as the NBC and ABC television networks an­nounced that, according to their computers, Gov. John Gilligan had defeated former Gov. James Rhodes in Ohio. 
Gov. Rhodes, like all of us, was so im­pressed by the fact that two out of three networks had given the election to Gov. Gilligan that he conceded on the spot and wentto bed certain he was a loser. When he woke up the next morning he discovered that, although the network computers had declared Gilligan the winner, the real votes showed that Rhodes was ahead by 12,000 votes. 
What went wrong? 
I happened to be in Canton, Ohio, so I went over to a sample precinct 50 miles away, one that both ABC and NBC had used to decide Gilligan had won. I will call the place Bellwether because the networks like to keep their sample precincts secret. 
just to break even. 
So, in closing, I must repeat your column did bring a touch of joy to my heart, to realize at least one member of our "com­munity" did enjoy the break with no scholastic or financial worries. The only problem is, Father, is that according to Fr. Burtchaell, the break was for the well being of the students and regrettably, Fr. Toohey, you are not a student nor a teacher. 
Yours in Financial Insecurity Rich Morton Fisher Hall President 
Moral decency? 
To the Editor: 
We would like to congratulate the SLC on their recent decision regarding the revised sex rule. Perhaps the University could solicit the aid of the Knights of Columbus to stifle attempts at sexual misconduct which is "flagrant, perverse or repeated after previous warning." 

Yours in :ontrolled moral decency, 
Martin Miller 
Charles Romer. 

Most of the people in town had long faces. 
The man in the coffee shop told me, "We're 
not proud of it. NBC and ABC were 
depending on us and we let them down." 
Another man at the counter said, "We've 
been a sample precinct for four elections. 
We've got 10 percent Italians, 10 percent 
Jews, 10 percent Irish, 10 percent blacks, 40 
percent women and 20 percent 
miscellaneous. We were a perfect mix." 
"But what happened?" I said. 
"Farfellied to the pollsters," a man at the 
end of the counter said. 
"Who's Farfel?" 
"He runs a gas station at the end of Main 
Street. After he came out of the voting 
booth, he told NBC and ABC he had voted for 
Gilligan, when in fact he had voted for 
Rhodes. They fed Farfel's vote into their 
computers and, bang, they declared 
Gilligan the winner." 
"But why would Farfel do that?" I said. 
"Why don't you ask him? No one else is 
talking to him, so he has plenty of time on 
his hands." 
I went down to Farfel's gas station. I 
found him sitting next to his gas pump 
playing a harmonica. 
"Mr. Farfel," I said, "I hear you screwed up the sample precinct in Bellwether and .got NBC and ABC to declare Gilligan the next governor of Ohio." 
Farfel chuckled, "Yup, danged if I did-n't." "Why did you do it?" 
"Wal, I tell you, son. I'm one of these old­timers that don't like no television hotshots telling me who won an election before all the votes have been counted. I mean, you turn on the set and some sharp feller in a $300 suit says, 'With 2 percent of the vote in, we declare John J. Pumpkin the next senator of Michigan.' Takes all the fun out of election night. I don't want no computer declaring who my governor is going to be. So this year I decided to fix 'em good. I'm half-Italian and half-English, so them network boys had it figured out that if I voted for Gilligan 350,000 Italians and 350,000 Church of England had voted for him, too." 
"Mr. Farfel,the networks spend millions of dollars on computers and hire the best experts in the business. How can they run an honest election if you lie to them in a sample precinct?" 
"No skin off my nose. They should be reporting election results and not projecting winners on the basis of what some Ph.D. feeds into a machine. I want to tell you, son, I never had so much fun as when NBC declared Gilligan the winner. I liked to have died laughing because I was the only one in the wholestatewho knew Rhodes was going to be our next governor." 
"You know, Mr. Farfel, everyone in town 
s mad at you. NBC has decided that you 
:an no longer be a sample precinct. It's 
JUite a blow to the pride of the community. 
)on't you have the slightest regret for what you did?" 
"Only one, son. I'm sorry I made a fool out of Barbara Walters. She seems like such a nice girl." 
the observer· Friday, November 15, 1974
10 
Letters Ta A Lanely Eiad 
on tea and rice as elements of a eucharist 

And so. on November 26, we will eat our rice and drink our tea as the celebrants of a liturgy mourning hunger, and we shall feel comforted by the righteousness of our limited commitment, as do clerics promoting temperance who abstain from daret during Lent. ("See how we suffer for the Church." said the archbishop, when he hurnt•d his hand on the roast.) We will eat our rice and drink our tea, and only a tailoring in bamboo hats and coolies' eulottes is needed to make us feel authen­tically identified with the diet of Vietnamese pt•asants. 
And indeed, I will eat my rice and drink my tea on that day, though in honesty, a doubt picks like a vulture at the shell of my mind. It is a doubt that makes me hesitant, reluctant, suspicious, resisting. It is a doubt that makes me wonder about our November fasting: have not some of us lviing on 
-
college campuses walked this road before? Is world hunger just the latest fashionable cause. like the Civil Rights Movement, for <>xample, or the Peace Movement, or the I<~cology Concern; or are we sealing con­venants of service to the suffering of the world. with tea and rice as symbols of our sacrifice? Whatever happened to the Civil Hights Movement? Are there demon­strators in South Boston, as there were in Selma. singing "We Shall Overcome"? Whatever happened to the Peace Movement. or did I not hear the news that they are pounding swords into plowshares, and spears into pruning hooks? Whatever happened to the concern over ecology? I read that a river died today. Friends of the earth claim the cause of death was in­dustrial waste. An autopsy made before 
four way street 

I 
Change was evident in both music and performance as Yes visited the ACC last night for the second time in three years. The staging was more elaborate in lighting, props, and positioning, and the performers. in flashy dress, played in a professional and vibrant manner. 
\'('splayed for 2 hours, providingsSEs six conpositions and an encore, "Roundabout." The music was taken from the albums 
('lost' to lh(' Edge, Tales from Topographic
L 
Oct>ans. and their new release, Relayer.
~ 
The concert opened with a work from their new(•st album, and that set the keynote of change which ran all through the evening. f<'ollowing were "Close to the Edge," "To Be Over." "Gates of Delerium," "And You and death said the river wasn't much good, anyway. All summer the damn thing had been polluted with flotations of dead trout. 
War goes on, racial tensions continue, the planet chokes in its own garbage, and I do not know what good all the Masses, protests, rallies, and demonstrations accomplished. No one who could have changed these things seemed to be listening, except possibly God, and He didn't say much. Presidents and industrial chieftains make their decisions in councils that are remote from campus quads; racial hatreds live in places as inaccessible as the human heart, where demonstrations are not allowed to enter. Yet, we had to make those protests, or our consciences wouldhavecrackedthe seams of our mind. The great causes of our times need our agitation, season in and season out and not just when we feel like it; they are like infant children whose wants do not cease because a mother is tired or sick, or a father is out of work. The great causes of our times are the babies of all of us who require survival. Now our concern is about hunger. and I worry, because I do not want hunger to be a hobby that school boys play games with at supper. 
I don't know what your experience with hunger has been; but if you are Irish, you may have heard the old people talk about the days of the Famine, when starving women and children died in the countryside grinding their teeth on emerald green foam from the grass they had eaten because there was no food left them by their absentee landlords. In the cities of America, you can sometimes see old men and women picking scraps out of the garbage, because their pitiful little checks, if they have them, can't buy enough groceries to keep them alive. I for the poor in a white, plastic milk bottle. 


Through Tom and Al--Tom as I remember 
him, and as he speaks through his death 
note; AI as a friend whom I admire and love­
-the tragedy of mass starvation become 
personalized for me through its witnesses, 
with a tug at my conscience that can't be 
ignored. There are others at this Univer­
sity whose exhortation and example touch 
my deepest respect: Fr. Hesburgh, for 
example, and Fr. Don McNeill, and the 
members of the Campus Ministry with 
whom I am associated. I cannot refuse their 
invitation to share in a meal remembering 
the hungry and starving people. 
Somewhere, some one got the idea for a fast for hunger. It's a quixotic gesture, I think to myself. If the students want to do something, urge them to stay at Notre Dame for Thanksgiving, turning over the money saved in plane fares, gas, and travel expenses to an agency like UNICEF. Then their parents and friends would really notice the sacrifice they are making, and the victims of hunger for whom they are making it. 
It would be nice if it happened, but I am not suggesting it. But I think that if we are really concerned about those who starve, sterner diets will be required of us than meals of rice and tea. The resolution to care must be an affair that love arranges with the heart. One's heart is best opened to caring when one is alone, away from the demonstrations, before the public liturgy begins. Only then can the sacrament of sharing be taken in symbols of tea and rice. 
Remember, on November 26, you are taking just a first step in faith on a journey that can lead you to the ends of the earth. 
sent through the rhythm 
by palmieri, murray, boland and smith 
1," and finally, "Ritual." 
"Close to the Edge" was a flawless reproduction of the studio version. Aided by a multitude of sound equipment, the in­tricate movements of the song reached a perfection. The highlight of "Close to the Edge" was the new visual feeeeffects which were incorporated into the performance. Lighting the stage wt·re elaborate com­binations of blues, reds, yellows, and pale greens. The lights added to the effect of fiberglassssss structures on the stage which were reminiscent of the graphics on their albums covers. The effect of the lights and fog added depth to the stage and created an eerie atmosphere. 
Two works from the new · Helayer have seen a family of four sick people ex­pected to live on seven dollars worth of food stamps a week, and they had no other source of income. That is why I don't un­derstand welfare systems that give food stamps to students, or students who accept them, if there are other reasonable alter­natives open, like asking wealthy old dad to write a check. Students are, to me, some of the most important people in the world, and I would begrudge them nothing that is mine, or anything else that is helpful or necessary. But when one or two of them brag of how they are ripping off the city, getting food stamps, I think of the helpless, hopeless folk for whom this welfare was intended, and I protest the shabbiness of systems. It seems especially ironic now in this university community in the face of a fast day to protest the world's hunger. 


Several years ago, there was a young man on this campus who sacrificed practically every other interest--studies, social life, peace of mind, friendships--to collect money for the starving nations. He suffered in­tensely because the resources he could gather. though he raised thousands of dollars, were so inadequate to serve the 
staggering needs of the tens of thousands who were dying. Eventually, it nearly broke his heart to think of the lack of caring he thought he found at Notre Dame ove those pathetic little bodies wasted to death by malnutrition. Because he couldn't stand the suffering--his own and those caused by the disasters of world hunger--he eventually took his own life. One person who shared Tom's commitment as a Good Samaritan, though fortunately not his despair, is Big AI, Tom's best friend, who stands at the doors of the dining hall each day, collecting money 
album followed. The new songs are the result of the progression through a spiritual change which occured after "Yessongs." "To Be Over" and "Gates of Delerium" were as impressive as "Close to the Edge" but has a more subtle effect. In­strumentally, these songs were highlighted by the impact of Steve Howe's pedal steel work and Patrick Moraz's exhaustive keyboard efforts. Moraz's work was more vibrant and better integrated than the recently departed and widely acclaimed Hick Wakeman. Wakeman's smoothness was more than made up for by Moraz's underestimated talent. 
Following was "And You and I" in which Yt>s again performed to formulated per­fection. The vocals by Jon Anderson had more feeling which lent an air of personal involvement to the song which their per­formance lacked two years ago. The sup­posedly absent Anderson also showed talent on guitar and supplementary percussion. ' The concert was rapidly building to a peak which came in the final piece played, the fourth movement from "Tales." This was the only cut played from Yes' most criticized album, but this edition rose above the problems which cropped up in the original. Yes' rhythm section excelled here as bassist Chris Squire and drummer Ala~ White attacked their instruments, enhanced by a synthesizer. Squire's bass was the dominant instrument as it rose and rell directing the band through the expansive themes. Alan White's impressionistic drum solo stood out and dramatically brought the audience to a pitch. One ball, one strike. The band then brought the erowd to their feet with the subtle impaet of their finish 
After Yes' exit, the overwhelmed audience voiced their disapproval with a ten-minute ovation whichg led to the sole encore, "Roundabout." A disappointing lack of enthusiasm by Yes in the encore left the audience confused. The vitality 

the performance of the encore was no better than typical, although it was the best song. The audience response, however, was again enthusiastic and they expected another encore. But the exhausted players felt no obligation to the audience which, previous to the end of the concert, was for the most part passive. 
The audience was left unsatisfied which furthered their apparent misunderatanding of Yes performance. This misun­derstanding was due to the emotionally involved nature of Yt>s music. At times people unfamiliar with the music relied on the visual gimmickry to provide substance where they found none. As a result some of the music was forced to stand alone, hut the more complex works could not do so as a song such as "Roundabout" can. Hence, the frenzied response to the encore was re~trained response to the longer works. 
The increasing sophistication of Yes' music will undoubtedly alienate some of their older fans, but for those who make the effort to understand, Yes' future is unlimited. 
the 
Warm-up 
act 

Gryphon, in only their second American performance, provided four tunes with Medeival and Classical influence to warm up the audience during a half-hour opening set. Although their music was com­plementary to Yes in style, the crowd's reaction was mixed to this unexpected and 

<Ph t b Ed B Yes showed up to that point wa:ii missing and unusual opener . 
. ,,,, .• ....: -~-·Q .Y ..: rower>., ....... ,~., .......... \l,,.... · .. · •·•·•··•·· · 
' I ' ·I. f 

II.' t. It. '6 • . • • • • • • " '• I • ~., I• I# I •
• t t • ~ " ••• 



-~~~.~~-~-l 
Fridav, November 15, 1974 the observer 1 1 ..... I
j 

Ford acknowedges·recession; i 
pledgesaidto housing industry ~ out for condominiums and ~ 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. (UPI) Never before has the Presi­rental housing. Further, he said
President. Forc;I, saying publicly dent acknowledged publicly in 
he is asking Congress to make

for the first time that America his own words the existence of
I am a sophmore a~d I'm. still ~ little confused about what's going it easier to get mortgages by
is in an economic recession a recession. But Wednesday his
to happen, concernmg registration, on Monday. Could you give me letting banks and thrift institu­
Thursday ordered $300 millio~ press secretary, Ron Nessen,
some information on what's going on? tions "compete more effectively
in federal aid to home buyers. acknowledged that conditions 
But he said he had discussed the 

"Inflation will be cooled. showed America may be 
"~om~itments" to the burglars

Despite economic weakness -moving into that condition.
According to the publication from the registrar's uffice the events With Mitchell many times after the 
recession, business fall-back Ford told the convention of
of Monday, November 18, include: Receipt of Form 50's by June ~9, 1972, bugging arrests and
call it what you will -ther~ the National Association of
sophomores Dependent upon departmental and college counseling that It was Mitchell himself who
will be an upturn in the nation's Realtors that to combat infla­
pro~edures,.,soph?mores may begin to meet their department authorized a final $75,000 payment
~conomic patterns. In fact, here tion and recession he had
cham!len (I. ma]or~ have been decided) or advisors for con­to conspirator E. Howard Hunt, Jr.
m Las Vegas where it is legal ordered $300 million in federal
sultatiOn for completiOn of the Form 50's, and to pick up checkmark on March 21, 1973.
I'll even bet on it," Ford told aid to help finance mortgages
cards. Students are remmde~ that Thursday ,November 21, is the That payment was one of the
8,000 cheering realtors. on existing houses.

last day for. advance registration . counseling and Friday, The money will come from $3 during periods of high interest ~ovember 22, IS the last day for completmg the Form 50 processing rates." ·billion previously earmarkedm Stepan Center. Sondej discusses only for aiding the financing of . Ford, g~~t1;1ring for emphasis,I'm .still n~t sure what a Plitt Ticket is and for that matter is they hit at criticism that his anti­new houses.
art-still available, could you please help me out? 
Ford, repeatedly cheered by inflation campaign is aimed at
the food crises 

the audience, said he will ask having Americans spend· less 
money.

Congress to aid the recession­
(continued from page 3)

Plitt tickets allow the holder to discounts on the price of admission "Instead of curtailing pur­hit housing industry by enact­to the movies at variou~ South Bend Theatres, among them is the "When the trees of a particular ing proposals for financing not chases, I say to consumersSco.ttsdale Theatre: This hol~s for all of their movies accept those area are removed, all the animals only for single-family houses simply: Buy wisely, shopdesign~ ted as special attract!ons. They are still available and can which depend upon the trees also sharper," Ford said.
be obtamed at the Student Unwn Office for a mere $~.50. 
die," he explained. The loss of these animals to the local eco-system causes all of the 

ENTERTAINMENT NIGHTLY 
other animals of the region to die,

Is lh~n· any pl~ce w.here we can give suggestions on improving the vt-ndmg machmes m our hall? 
resulting at last in soil erosion and 

(Except Tuesday) 
the creation of desert . Sondej 

affirmed that in the past 100 years A_ny suggestions on how to improve the vending machines should be the amount of geographical areas d1recte? to the Uni:rersity's Vending Department. This can be done classified as desert have in­by.callu~g Dean Wmter, the manager of vending, at 8888, or E. T. creased about 10 percent. Pnc~, d1rect.or o! F'?<ld S.ervices.-There is a 24-hour-a-day phone Manier, in addition to his service.so If msp1ra~IOn hits you m the middle of the night you can remarks about the nature of the u:nmed~ately send It to someone who will give it ample con­good· society, also commented on 


sideratiOn. 
"BRUCE CARR"
the phenomenon of conflicting expertise among scientists. "Depending on the way one reportsWill tht-Notrt-Dame Orchestra be giving a concert some time in the same set of data, one can drawthe nl'at· future? 

very different conclusions," he· 

Tb Wkite HrtuAe

stated. Manier warned against treating On ~unday, November 17, the Notre Dame Orchestra is scheduled the scientist like a god. "The 

"The House of Rock"
to give a concert. Conducting the Notre Dame Orchestra will be scientist is subject to valuedone by Ralph Lane. It will take place in Washington Hall at 8:15. 
judgement just as much as NOTE: The Ombudsman Service has the means and the ways to 
the philosopher or theologian," he 

'hfDS.--DRINK & DROV\tf\1 
said. "What we need is a three tht•ough Thursday evenmgs 10:00 to midnight. For help dial 7638. part dialogue between the scien­
solvl' your problems, ju~t call us weekdays 9:30 to 5:00 anclMonday 
THURS --PITCHER BEER NITE 
tists, the politicians and the people," he asserted. 

Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 
Charity b-ball game Sunday to raise funds for S.B. study help program 
The study help program that has have helped pay for the initial contest. Irish Coach Richard helped thousands of South Bend contact with several hundred "Digger" Phelps and his staff, area children keep pace with grade and high school age students along with city and county of­schoolmates will be the so far this year. ficials, annualy endorse the beneficiary of this year's A committee headed by Dennis charity game and urge friends of 
University of Notre Dam.e Charity P. Brenna, a Morrissey senior, is the community to see the athletes Basketball Game at 7:30 p.m. at work on pre-game and haltime in action during this special con­
Sunday, Nov. 24, in the Athletic entertainment for the special test. and Convocation Center. 
Cash gifts of 50 cents for adults and 25 cents for children 12 and under will be used to finance the neighborhood program that sends volunteer tutors from the campus to 14 or more locations in the community. 
Notre Dame's first and second basketball squads are matched each year in the season-opening exhibition contest for friends in the Michiana area. 
Proceeds of previous games have been used to purchase Thanksgiving dinners for needy families and sponsors this year voted to use cash gifts for the purchase of books, study help materials and other costs of the once Federally financed program. Contributions from a student fund 
ST. MARY'S FALL CHORAL CONCERT 
COLLEGIATE CHOIR, MADRIGAL SINGERS, WOMEN'S CHORUS 
Mon.Nov.l8 
8 P.M. 

O'Laughlin Aud. FREE 
TUES.-\1\ED.  ADM. $1.00  
8 • 10 PM  
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM  PATRONS GRATIS  


*CAC ONEIV\A '75 * 
PRESENTS 

KNIFE IN THE WATER 

ROMAN PO.ANSKJ'S FIRST FILM 
... 12 the observer Friday, November 15, 1974 
After historic U.N. visit 
PLO leader Aralat leaves U.S. lor Cuba 

Hy HHUC'E W. MUNN 

UNITED NATIONS !UPI> Palestinian leader Yasser Ara­rat. pleased by his unprecedent­ed U.N. visit, flew to Cuba Thursday, leaving a nine-man delegation to press Palestine Liberation Organization de­mands for an all-embracing state of its own. 
The burden of the Arab campaign for such a state before the General Assembly fell upon Lebanese President Suleiman Franjieh who asked dtlegates in a low-key speech to help the Palestinian people "recover fully its national rights." 
Shafiq el Hout, the PLO delegation spokesman, said Arafat was pleased by his reception in the world organiza­tion and more than satisfied with the security arrangements, the tightest in New York history. 
He said between 200 and 300 messages were received by the PLO delegation from all parts of the United States, approving Arafat's Assembly appeal Wednesday for a Palestine as "one democratic state where Christian, Jew and Moslem live in peace, equality and frater­nity." 
Hout also said a 10-member delegation of Congress con­ferred here Thursday with PLO representatives, their first offi­cial contact with United States other than security arrange­ments for their visit. 
He said the PLO, while disapproving of U. S. policy in the Middle East, sought to work out relations with the United States. 
The Congressional visitors included four senators and six representatives, including a woman member, Hout said, but he did not name them. 
The U. S. Mission said the members of Congress were in 

Senior Club opening causes slump at local South Bend bars 
by Harb Boylan 

have noticed, in general, a slight
Staff Ht>portl'r 

decline in attendance. Prices 
Since the opening of the Senior 

which range from 45 cents to 50 
Club last week, local bar owners 
cents in most local student bars 
The Senior Club has become popular with everyone, and local bars 
have noticed a decrease in student attendance. (photo by Tom 
Paul ius) 
An ND-SA£ first! 
are only 30 cents (or 25 cents per draft) at the Senior Club. 
Rick Kanser, manager of The Library said the decline in at­tendance was "expected and ac­cepted." Explaining the price difference, Kanser said, "local bar owners operate businesses 6 days a week, 12 months a year with high overheads, whereas the Senior Club which operates only 4 nights a week has no overhead." 
A Notre Dame grad, Kanser has no animosity toward the Senior· Club. "It is a great service for students and alumni," he said. 
Kanser suggested, however, that the University "revitalize their pricing structure at the Club so as to provide competitive prices. The added profit from this price in­crease could easily be used to establish a scholarship fund," he said. 
Kanser also commented that the original basis for the Club is vanishing. "Due to com­plimentary tickets more and more non-Notre Dame people are frequenting the Club," he ex­plained. Managers of Nickie's and Corby's also noted the decline but are looking forward to this weekend to see how much effect the Senior 
-Club actually has on their businesses. 

Ping pong program promoted 
by .Jt>an l\lurphy Staff Ht>porter 

Inter ·hall ping pong'? That's what 1\like Meissner, a Junior ping pong Pnthusiast is attempting to organile this winter at Notre DamP. 
"In order to start the program off." Meissner said, "I am issuing a challange to the other halls on behalf of Cavanaugh, to play against our team. We've never played on a hall basis before, and I know several good players at Cavanaugh who are eager to play," he explained. 
Each hall on campus can register a 5 or 6 member team. However, there is no limit to the 
WAITRESSES 
NEEDED AT FAT WALLY'S 
2046 
So. Bend Ave. 
277-0570 APPLY IN PERSON 

number of teams each hall can send. A ping pong league will then be set up to enable each team to play the others. A tournament at the end of the season will deter­mine the champion ping pong players. 
Each hall on campus can register 
Meissner hopes that the Notre Dame girls' dorms will become involved and plans to open the 
~eague to Saint Mary's girls as well. "I know that most of the dorms have ping pong equipment, but if 'lot, La Fortune has tables," he 
The final tournament will be set up differently from last year's. "We intend to follow the procedure of a tennis tournement where three singles and two doubles play five matches, and the first to win three games becomes the champion," Meissner explained. Last year's 
tournament between 60 to  competition 80 individuals.  was  
The  ping  pong  season  will  

hopefully open after Ch}'istmas, but Meissner would like to get it organized before Thanksgiving. Any interested teams or halls can register by calling Meissner at 1480. 

New York for a three-day visit 
to acquaint themselves with 
Jolicies of various U.N. delega­
:ions, including that of Israel. 
After a brief night's rest at the Waldorf Astoria hotel, Arafat was whisked away by secret service men before dawn for his flight to Havana aboard an Algerian jetliner. 
Havana radio said Arafat gave Cuban premier Fidel Castro a "bear hug" when they met at Havana's Jose Marti airport. 
Franjieh told the Assembly, "The recognition of the Pales­tinian people and its represen­tatives is only an accession to a 
half-truth. We will accede to the entire truth by helping this people to recover fully its national rights. 
"Here lies the realistic approach to the heart of the problem. Here also lies the ltey which will open all the prospects of a useful and worthy solution and which will revive all hopes." 
Franjieh, who was picked by the Rabat summit conference to speak in the Assembly's Palestine debate on behalf of all 20 Arab countries, did not discuss details of an expected Arab resolution on the question. 

''c~ralter year~ semesrcrI after semester, t~.~ CollegcMaster from Fidelitv Union Life has ht-cn the most acceph..-d, 
most popular plan on 
campuses all overAmenca. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegeMaster· Field Associate
. 
myour area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 


Friday, November 15, 1974 the observer 13 
Chairman of Congressional Black Caucus 
Rep. Rangel opens civil rights conference 
' l 
.' /'. 
,.,• 

The Cultural Arts Commission in Coniunction with MECHA presents 
El Teatro Triangulo production of Buffalo Bill •1n Gullibleland 

Saturday 

November 16th, 1974 7:00pm Washington Hall 
Free Admission 
-~-.--­
1970. 
Rangel, a lawyer, is a member of the House Judiciary Committee and also plays an important leadership role in Congress as Chairman of the influential 
· Congressional Black Caucus. During this last summer's im­peachment hearings, Rangel was one of the most outspoken critic of former President Nixon's conduct. 
Rangel's address, free and open to the public, will begin the CRC program to look beyond the 
]r. Hawy Hour todayat Kubiak's 
by Lewis Carroll 
Staff Reporter 
The Junior Class will sponsor the 

semester's last "Happy Hour" this .,.---------------------------,

afternoon from 3:30 to 6:30p.m. at Kubiak's. The part is entitled "Mad-Hatter's Day" and all juniors are encouraged to wear some sort of exotic cranium covering. 
The affair will be similar to earlier "Happy Hours" and pit­chers of beer will cost $1.50 "Hopefully, the juke box will be fixed and there will be more dancing," Junior Class Secretary Sue Caranci said. 
The "Happy Hours" will resume next semester for several of the home basketball game weekends. Since the junior class formal and final exams are scheduled for later Fridays this semester, this will be the last "Happy Hour" this semester, Caranci noted. 
"We're really glad the "Happy Hours" have been so successful since they are good opportunities for on and off-campus students to get together," Caranci continued. 
Tickets for the junior class formal to be held Friday, Nov. 22, at the Four Flags Motor Inn in Niles, Mich., will be on sale this afternoon at the Kubiak tavern. 

traditional concern of civil rights and to develop an agenda of reforms. "To do this we will need to consider broader social and economic issues" Glickstein said. 
This program, Glickstein an­nounced, will bring a number of prominent leaders from politics, business and labor to speak on the campus. Like Rangel, the speakers will discuss critical issue s they feel are facing America and how these issues effect minorities. 
In addition to Rangel, United Auto Workers President Leonard Woodcock, and Hunter S. Thomp­son of Rolling Stone will be invited to speak. 
These speakers will be in ad­dition to the fourth annual Civil Rights Lectures co-sponsored by the CRC and the Law School, ac­
cording to Michael Wise, Assistant 
-

NOTRE DAME FRESHMAN PREREGISTRATION FOR ARMY ROTC 
Preregistration for the Freshman Army ROTC Spring 
Session will be held Nov. 14-21, 1974. 
No military obligation is incurred during Freshman and Sophomore years, and by enrolling, you become eligible to compete for a two-year Army ROTC scholarship during your Sophomore year. It pays full tuition, for books and academic fees, as well as $100 per month subsistence allowance. Even without a scholarship, you receive $100 monthly in your Junior and Senior years. 
Army ROTC can offer you a commission as a Second Lieutenant in thr US Army Reserve concurrent with your graduation :' :>m college with a starting salary of $10,000.00 a yepr in addition to other liberal fringe benefits. 
If you then decide to leave the Army, you'll find that employers realize that a young graduate who possesses the attributes of leadership essential for Army officers is an excellent addition to their firm. 
The Army ROTC course consists of two class hours per week and is open to all Freshmen at Notre Dame or other nearby cross-enrolled colleges. Course hours can be arranged by telephoning Major Jim Musselman at 283-6264 or by contacting him at the Notre Dame ROTC building. 
Director of the CRC. This set of 
lectures will be in conjunction with 
the CRC spring conference entitled 
"Beyond Civil Rights." 
The spring confereence will be held April 17 and 18 and will focus on health, care and urban education , especially as the deficiencies in these areas bear on the economic security and the position of minority groups. 
"In particular, we would like our conference to focus on the right of economic security, a right that might be fulfilled through guaranteed jobs or some form of income supplement," Glickstein said. 
According to Wise, "A number of distinguished academic and practical experts have agreed to present papers and discuss critical 
issues at the conference." 
by Matt Yokom Staff Reporter 

U.S. Representative Charles B. Rangel, (Dem, NY} will address Notre Dame students and faculty December 5 in the Center for Continuing Education. 
According to Howard A. Glickstein, Director of the Center for Civil Rights, Rangel will be the kick-i>ff speaker of a new CRC program to bring leaders from politics, business and labor to 
. speak on campus. The lectures are part of an 18 month long effort to 
· develop social and economic reform proposals to be presented to the 1976 political conventions, new ·candidates and the new Congress in 1977. 
"Representative Rangel is eminently qualified to inaugurate our amitious program" stated Glickstein. Rangel has represented the Harlem congressional district since defeating Adam Clayton Powell in 
This NO student gets things rolling in the first major snowfall of the season. (Photo by Paul Joyce) 
llllllllllllllllllllllllntlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
1 4 
__;__ ___;_the observer Friday, November 15, 1974 
Sawhill pleased at possible gas tax hike 
terest in raising the federal gasoline tax increase," Sawhill producing nations, the United unfairly burden those with low
Bv SCOTT LATHAM 

gasoline tax and indicated that said, adding he saw "a good States could achieve an im-or middle incomes. He also said 
. NEW YORK <UPI) -Outgo­mg Federal Energy Adminis­trator John C. Sawhill said Thursday he was "delighted" the Ford administration was interested in raising the federal gasoline tax. 
The issue, thought to be dead a month ago when President Ford announced he would not seek such an increase from Congress. was revived Wednes­day by Interior Secretary Hogcrs C.B. Morton, the President's chief energy ad­dser. 
Morton expressed strong in-
Dec.performance slated for 'Fellows' 

beginning truly South Bend and Wayne, Pa., give serious consideration to a independent of the Arab oil-
students at Notre Dame have been w • 1 lk
omen ln aw to ta
cast in leading roles forth e world 
phmier production of Christopher ('praso 's "Fellows" on December

-
fi.7, 12, 13 and 14. The stage
production in Washington Hall is the second of the season for the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College Theater. · 
Dr. Reginald Bain, chairman of the Cooperative Department of Speech and Drama at the two schools and director of the production , has assigned the role of Mr. Tongue to William McGlinn, a junior student from Soth Bend 021 E. North Shore), and the role of Mr. Cheek to Dan Daily, a sophomore student from Wayne <247 Berwind Rd.). 
Ceraso, a recent Notre Dame graduate, is expected to return to the campus to assist in the such an increase would have to be at least 10 cents a gallon to discourage consumption and reduce oil imports significantly. 

He said President Ford might go along with raising the tax, now four cents a gallon, if it were part of a larger economic and energy program to be shaped jointly with Democrats 
on  Capitol Hill.  
Sawhill,  whose  outspoken  call  
for  a  similar  gasoline  tax  

increase several days before President Ford's economic message to Congress on Oct. 8 was one of the reasons Morton cited for Sawhill's forced resignation, refused to express any public bitterness. "I am delighted that Secre-
Morton is to

tary country never 
by Jane Cannon Staff Reporter 

The Saint Mary's Law Society will hold its last meeting of the semester on Sunday, November 17, at 7 p.m. in room 161, LeMans. Guest speakers will be Marcia Burgdorf and Ms. Mooney, both women working-in the field of Jaw. Anyone interested in at­tending is invited for the lecture and refreshments afterwards. 
Burgdorf is a professor at the Notre Dame Law School and works for the National Center for Law 
and the Handicapped. Mooney is a direction of the play. 
QUICKIE SHUTTLE SYSTEM: 
Main circle at ND••••••• ••••••••• ••••••••• •••••• 8:30 Holy Cross~SMC ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 8:34 Light before Boar's Head••••••••••••••••••••••••• 8:38 Light at Denny 's-Village Inn ••••••••••••••••••••••8:40 
Jay's Lounge on '3I ••••••••••• a••••••••••••••••••8:45 
Portaphino's on '31••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 8:51 
H(\idelberg on '31 •••••••• •••••••••• •••••••••• •••• 8:55 Shula's on '31 ·········•••••••••••••••••••••••••• 9:00 
Kubiak's on '31 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 9:04 
Light at Denny's-Village Inn •••••••••••••••••••••• 9:08 Light after Boar's Head ••••• •••••••••••••••• ••••• 9:10 Holly Cross Hall-SMC ••••• ••••••••• ••••••••••••·•• 9:15 Main Circle at NO •••• •••••••••••• ••••••••••••••• 9:20 
There will also be runs following this same schedule leaving the main circle at 9, 9:30, 10, 11, 12, 12:30, 1, 1:30. All buses go to Michigan. The cost will be $.50 one way or$. 75 for all night. If you have any questions please call the Ombudsman at 7638. 

OO~~~~~~~TW ~sts) 
CORNER OF IRONWOOD & S;;NmDa.
STATE ROAD 23  ,,.  lARD  
(ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART)  ·~·  
2 7 2 -0 0 8 3  •SERVICE•  

BE SURE TO ASK FOR 10 PERCENT ND-SMC 
possibility" of such a tax being implemented. 
Sawhill made the comment following a speech at the Financial Times and Oil Inter­national Conference. In his address he urged stronger international cooperation to cope with the energy crisis and said some form of mandatory conservation program was necessary in the United States. 
In his discussion of a 10-cent gasoline tax increase, Sawhill suggested that the added revenue raised by the levy be partially refunded to lower income people to insure that it is not too burdensome on the poor. 
He said that while this 
could be 

t SMC L s • t
0 aW' OCle y 
South Bend lawyer. 
In other activities, the Law s~~. in conjunction with the Career Development Center, will sponsor prep sessions before the December 7 Law School Ad­missions Test. Anyone interested in attending these sessions should contact the SMC Career Development Center or Marikay Flyke at 4493 for further in­formation. 
The Law Society recently sponsored a buffet dinner with Martha Phillips, the Woodrow Wilson Fellow who spent a week at 
the St. Mary's campus. Phillips 
spoke to approximately 20 girls 
attending the dinner at the 
Redinger House on campus. The 
discussion concerned women in­
nlaw and politics. 
Flyke, president of the Law 
Society, commented, "The club is 
only a little more than a year old. 
We are happy to say that we are on 
solid ground and will continue next 
semester. We feel that the Law 
Society is a definite contribution to 
the St. Mary's society." 

munity to further embargos it would take a force of 17,000 within 5 to 10 years by persons to administer such a implementing an energy con-program.servation program. Although Sawhill has submit-
He ruled out gasoline ration-ted his resignation, no date for ing on the grounds it would his departure has been set. 
')...•.:....~..~~..-...................,...•....,. 
: 
:
• 
:
•
!
•
! 
~

! 1316 SCXJI"H MICHIGAN STREET : 
' 
. 

i.~.~-~!~:.l.~Rt~fR.R.lfi~Q&MAJJg~· 
AFTER TH'E GANE. VISIT INDIANA'S LARGEST RESTAlRANT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT TI-E TUES,VVED,FRI,SAT SUN 
WOODEN KEG 
1609 South Main 289-4824 

O'CONNOR BORC.NINE LAW AND DISORDER 
Phone 288-8488 for times & directions 
!****************************************************~ 
* * 
$ Experience the spirit of Christmas : 
* ~ as newr before. *: * * 
* *
1 * * amahl i * * i &the $ 
* *
: night : a "' visitors i
* * 
* *
* *
* *
* *~
~ A special presentation of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
* *
"Amahl & the Night Visitors" is a
* 
colorfully staged and costumed mu­~ sical classic with an appeal to all

* 
people, young and old alike. This is

* 
the first professional production ever

* 
to be performed in the area. There

* 
will be two performances only and

* 
tickets are limited. We suggest you ~ purchase your tickets early. ::: Performances: 


..,..
* Morris Civic Auditorium 
lt Friday, December 6 (8 p.m.) : Saturday (matinee) Dec. 7 (3:30p.m.) 

MICHIGAN STREET ·: 
ADULT THEATDt:rc! :
.A~ • 

X 2 F1LIVS :
• 

X BOOKSI'CH: !
• 

X LIVE FLCXE SHOW !
. 

Tickets: Friday Saturday Reserved * seats $5.50 & 4.00 $4.50 & 3.00 ~ General Admission $3.00 $2.00 ~ 
For reservations and ticket informa-** tion, phone the Morris Civic Audito-* rium box office at 232-6954. Tickets ~ may be ordered by mail by sending ::: a check or money order and a self-..,.. addressed, stamped envelope to: * Morris Civic Auditorium, South * Bend, IN 46601. !
*

DISCOUNT ON EVERYTHING EXCEPT GAS. 
•

..._------------------....1....",f~¥Jf.;t,f/ff.!:lf-¥f1f.f.f/f¥,Jt:1f..~flt·/f,¥.t.~f..-¥1:~-f.~H-¥¥-¥¥¥*-'¥¥-¥¥Jt.-¥-¥-_.-¥¥¥-¥-¥* 
' ' .' ......... ... .. .. ... . ,. 
Friday, November 15, 1974 the observer 15 
Hard work, determination key Paul Clarke's success 
Sophomore defenseman Paul Clarke isn't much different than other collegians who play the game of hockey. 
Still, experts of the sport will notice two distinct things which separate this 19-year old Scar­borough, Ont. native from the rest of the pack. 
First, although naturally a righthander, Clarke is very adept at taking his stick and passing and shooting from the portside. This unusual skill can be and is used to Clarke's advantage when stopping incoming forwards. 
But second, and probably most important, Clarke is the youngest player in Notre Dame's short ice history to be named captain, a post usually reserved for juniors and seniors. 
This last fact speaks for the blueliner's maturity. 
"Yes, I was surprised that the team named Paul captain in only his sophomore season," Coach Lefty Smith says. "But no, I wasn't surprised they named him to the post. 
"I think his teammates saw the same qualities I have seen in Paul­-his excellent maturity, his hard­working attitude, his good common sense, but most important, his leadership. 
"Those qualities make him an extremely easy player to coach. As a coach, you just enjoy players with Paul's attitude and ability." 
There is nothing much more you can say about the sophomore's ability--he has been the glue which has held the Irish defense together much of last season and the first part of this year. . 
Still, you have to be impressed with his attitude. It is a very un­selfish one, stressing team honors over individual ones. 
"It seemed last year's seniors 

got blamed for everything which 
went wrong," Clarke comments 
about last season's eighth-place 
WCHA squad. "And that's un­
fortunate because when you lose, it 
is a team loss. 
"But because of our record last 

year, this year's squad wants to go 
out and prove themselves. The 
whole 'team feels that it has to go 
out and do the job. 
"We have the talents and some are just putting them together. 
Pep rally set 
And although he does profess to Confidence from togetherness-­be surprised by his selection as the that's what is going to determine Irish leader on the ice, Clarke does where these youthful Irish finish realize what he had to do to help this WCHA season. Each player seems to realize what And in Paul Clarke, they couldn't 
have made a better choice forhe has to do, and he is working on someone to keep them headed init. That's what is helping our the right direction.

team." 
Pittsburgh ready for Irish 
(continued from page 16) '.!-formation team, and with Dorsett's injury status (a banged­up ankle) hanging over our heads, we can't make any big changes." The key to the Panther offense is quarterback Bill Daniels, a high­school rival of Irish QB Tom Clements. Daniels has completed 69 of 117 passes and has thrown for nine TD's. He is also the team's fourth-leading rusher. Middle guard Gary Burley, a 6-3; 250-pound senior, anchors the Panther defense. He has been credited with 72 tackles and 37 assists in nine games this year. "Pittsburgh," said ND head coach Ara Parseghian, "is a very physical team that is well-<:oached and well-<:onditioned. And when you give a team like that runners like Dorsett and Walker and a quarterback like Billy Daniels, you .know , you're going to be in a real tug-Qf-war." Notre Dame was idle last weekend while Pitt was surviving Temple, and the respite was a welcome one for Parseghian's fourth-ranked team. "We're very hopeful,'' said Parseghian, "that (tackle) Steve Neece, <defensive tackle) Kevin Nosbusch, and <tight end) Robin Weber can be ready for the game with Pittsburgh. None of these players saw action against Navy, and I only hope the week-Qff gave them sufficient time to heal. "We're going to need them," continued the ever-<:autious Irish coach, "because this year's Pitt team is, overall, probably the best Pitt team we've faced in the 11 years I've been at Notre Dame. There's nothing they can't do. 
"Their offense is quick and versatile and their ·defense has hung in there when it's had to this year. Johnny Majors has done an outstanding job with them, and he'll have his team ready to play tomorrow, you can count on that." 
If Majors doesn't -have the Panthers ready to play against the Irish, that fact in itself will rate as the biggest upset to occur since the , 28th of September. 
"Our football team is looking very much forward to this game," said Majors. "We know that we're going to be decided underdogs, and maybe justifiably so, but we're looking forward to it nevertheless. It will be the first time I, per­sonally, have ever taken a team into Notre Dame Stadium, so the game presents a special challenge to me. All of us," said Majors, "are eager to play this one. All of will be ready." 
Kickoff for tomorrow's game is set for 1:30 p.m. 
Cagers in action 
Notre Dame's 1974 basketball team will debut this Friday evening with an exhibition game against Athletes in Action West. The Athletes in Action squad is composed of top flight amaterus from around the country and is coached by former Chicago Bulls player-<:oach Jim King. 
As a special attraction, a film of the last five minutes of last season's 71-70 upset victory over UCLA will be shown at half time. 
Tickets for the exhibition game are one dollar for adults and 50 cents for children 18 and under as well as all Noire Dame students. 

livE ANd STUdy 
for tonight at 
iN ROME

StepanCenter 
LOYOlA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 

Notre Dame's newly inspired ROMf CFNTFR OF LIBERAl ARTS efforts to retain its national title after losses by Ohio State and several other top ten teams last Saturday, begin tonight at the • Classes taught in English Pittsburgh pep rally in Stepan 
Center. • All academic credits transfer The importance of the rally is 'indicatedby the prominence of the 
• 60 courses offered each semester: 

speakers. Linebacker coach George Kelly and split end Pete 
ANTHROPOLOGY • CLASSICAL STUDIES • ENGLISH 

Demmerle, as well as fullback Tom Parise, who hasdoubledas an 
& ITALIAN LIT. • FINE ARTS • HISTORY • ITALIAN 

impressionist at many a Notre Dame function, will be featured at 
• PHILOSOPHY • POLITICAL SCIENCE • PSYCHOLOGY 

the 7 p.m. rally. 
• THEATRE • THEOLOGY • BUSINESS .1 ECONOMICS

Special guest speakers at the rally will be the kicking specialists 
• 350 echools repreeented over 10 years

of the 1973 National Champions, punter Brain Doherty and 
• Campus villa houses some 275 students

placekicker Bob Thomas. Both are Notre Dame record holders. 
MANY STATE SCHOLARSHIPS TRANSFER

Doherty's season average of 42.7 
APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED NOW FOR SPRING '75 1nd 1975-78

yards per punt in 1973 is Notre Dame's highest. Thomas holds ten all-time Irish records, 1including 
'0" IN,OitMATION MAIL TO: LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO I 

ROME CENTER OFFICE, 6525 N. SHERIDAN AD., CHICAGO, ILL. 60626
most field goals made in a career 
(21), most consecutive PAT's made (62), and best PAT per­I Nama School I centage in a season (100 per cent) and in a career (97 per cent). I Addrtll I 
The band will step off by 

I City Stall Zip I
Washington Hall at 6:40p.m. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need 1 Pitt tix. Call Ernie 1049. 
Need two GA tix for Pitt.-Hurry. Call 8020. 
Need GA tix tor Pitt. Call Mike. 288-7946. 
Need 3 GA or Pitt tixs. Call Norm 272-4156 
Need 2-4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Bill. 8687. 
Need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Joe at 289-3751. 
Need 4 GA Pitt tix. Call George at 287-0067. 
4 GA Air Force Tickets. Call Chip 6931. 
Please. 1 gotta have 4 Pitt. GA tix by today.Call 287-0076. 
Desperately need 2 or 3 Pitt. tickets. Call 5464. 
Hotel room Sat. night of Pitt. weekend. Call John 282·1568. 
Really need 2 GA Pitt fix's. Call Monica 4489. 
Need Desperately 2 Pitt tickets. Call Tom 283-1461. 
Please. I Need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Camille, 5154. 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio Fri. or Sat., Nov. 16 or 17.Call Barb, 4008. 
Need 1 or 2 GA Pitt tix. Call Nick 1553 
Need many Pitt fix's. Call Zen 233­2352 
Irish Lampoon needs articles and cartoons. Call 272-8724 between 9& 
11:30 pm. 

Need 1 GA Pitt tix or life is forfeit! Call Chip 1059. 
Will really pay for 2 Pitt GA tix. 7935 after 11 pm. 
"--eeded: Stage Crew for Dr.John. Call Mar~. 288-4125 
Ride wanted to Grand Rapid­s,Muskegon or GrandHaven. Will share expenses after 2:30 Mon­day,Nov.25. Call 4233 
FOR SALE 

4.5 cubic ft. 1 yr. old refrigerator 233-235?. 
2 Doobie Brothers tickets. Call Mary Ann 4238 
Bose 901 Speakers, Dual 1229 Turntable, All like new 255-5414 
Clean component sound Dynaco Pat-4 Preamp and stereo 120 AMP $225 AR-manual turntable $75. 8456 
Hanimex 90-230mm. Zoom. ·Thread or Canon Mount. Call Joe 6720 after 11 PM. 
Ticket for Senior Trip to Calif. $200. Call 1269 
NOTICES Pittsburgh Thanksgiving Bus leaves Wed. 1:00 Sign up at 
LaFortune Amphitheatre. Sun. Nov. 17. 6:30 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros. Eddy at Madison.Wholesale prices to ND-SMC student,faculty, adn staff do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929 234-0181. 
Want something unique? Try Jennifers Designer's Originals. Import clothing, jewelry, 119 w. 
Colfax ·---· Beatles Illustrated Lyrics No II now at Pandoras Books. 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
World Book-used much, stimulatory, "essential," revised, inexpensive. Larry 289-5407 
FOR RENT 
503 West Jefferson Duplex 3 room furnished apartments. First and second floors. Gas heat, furnished. 289-6307 
Room-$40 month ·Near Rides; Privacy. Kitchen. 233-1329 
Rooms for football weekends close to campus. Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. $3 a night 
Room tor rnet: excellent location and conditions. Call 232-4545 
LOST & FOUND 
Found-one "TAURUS" key chain with several keys. Call 1088 
Lost: Texas instruments SR-SO Calculator. Engineering Aud. or Ad Building. Reward. 277·0167 
Found: small cross on chain. Call 234-2620 before 9:pm. 
Found: Calculator in Science Hall Call 8941. 
Man's Watch found by Nickies at 1:22am. Mon. Nov: 4, Call Kate 289-3945 
Lost wire.rimmed glasses in caroll Hall. If found call Karilee, 5703 
Green and black pelikan writing pen. Call Jim 1089 
Lost: small black billfold. SSC,I.D, drivers I icense last Fri nite. Very impt! Reward Call 287-7656 
PERSONALS GOD HELP DOUBLE "D" 
Rosemary: 
Get with it! I want the Jackpot. Please don't leave my life in Jeopardy! 
c.c.: 
Hve a Happy Birthday Sunday. How's it feel to be legal? Broop, Broop! 
Stood up in Farley. Hope for the Resurrection 
Eltor 
Teich, best wishes for a profuse B­day. Hope you reach the happy , medium without any-ankle con. tusions. 
p.j. and M. 
M&M 
This broach upon your lily white honor cannot go unanswered; the bigger they die, the harder they tall. · 
Tus Tias 
Were you by a Lake Monday Pat, Red& Kim? A dear friend you all know. 
ATTENTION: Louie's has a pool table pizza and gr.eat beer. But don't take our word for it-come see tor yourself. 74A n. N.D. 
The World's Finest Zoo and beer capital of the cosmos are in Milwaukee! Need ride there Sunday. Calll366any(HIC!ltime. Will pay. 
Terry: You're finally where you really belong .... in the PSYCHO WARD! The 4 Mary,Di & Mindie. 
Teresa: GET YOUR ARSE OUT OF THERE. Respectfully,Chauct~· 
Fred: 
Can we make it 10:30? Roger is bringing the baptismal water, and he and Abagail like to sleep in Saturdays. 
lg 
1 • 

. ' 
16 the observer Friday, November 15, 1974 
Panthers pose familiar problem 
by Vic Dorr and an. average of 4.9 yards. He gang-tackling and better execution leads the Panthers in scoring with instead of worrying about bowls. 
The opponents in Saturday's 10 touchdowns, all of them on the There's not much I can do about Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game ground. Last year, Dorsett left the bowl bids, anyhow. But there is need no introduction. They top-ranked Irish "D" in tatters he something I can do about im­became well-acquainted during rushed for a record-setting 209 proving our gang-tackling and last year's get-together in Pitt yards. execution." Stadium, and the passage of one 1974's renewal of the NO-Pitt Majors took a big step in the college season and the onset of series is also tinted heavily by direction of improved offensive another has done little, if anything, post-season bowl activity--as was execution last weekend against to alter the significance of the the 1973 game. The Irish, of Temple, when he inserted fresh­Irish-Panther match. course, are already assured of a man Elliot Walker into the Panther 
In fact, only NO's early-season New Year's Night rematch with lineup in place of the injured loss to Purdue is . keeping Alabama. Pittsburgh, on the other Dorsett. Walker responded by tomorrow's game from shaping up hand, must defeat ND if the churning through the Owls for 169 as a precise carbon copy of the 1973 Panthers hope to avoid a New yards and four scores. game, a game Notre Dame won, Year's vacation in the Steel City. This week, with both Dorsett and 31-10, in the snow and biting chill of Still, Majors insists that his Walker relatively healthy, the downtown Pittsburgh. club's prime concern tomorrow Notre Dame defense may have to 
NO's won-loss record, thus is the will lie with the Irish, and not with face them both. only difference. The similarities any post-season bids. "Oh, I don't know," said Majors, are these: "I'm not concerned with bowl "I don't plan any drastic changes 
Just as it did last year, the Irish talk, period," Majors said. "I this week. We're basically an defense enters the game ranked want our team to worry about (continued on page 15)No. 1 in the nation. The Irish are allowing only 179.4 yards per Greg Corgan·=============================================================================:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: game, and are surrendering only 
111.1 rushing yards per game. 
Coach Johnny Majors' Panthers, just as they did last year, possess 

The Irish Eye 
an explosive offense and a young, fleet backfield. Tailback Tony Dorsett, returning after a ...........,....·.·.·.·.·.·.·.....·.···········································.....·.········_···Fcootball Pl.Cks 
NO-Pitt '73: Tony Dorsett escapes. phenomenal·. freshman season, ............·.·······························=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=··············· · . h::ts carried 181 times for 878 yards Next to Woody Hayes, the person who probably hated to see OhiO State
•

lOne ers 
upset by Michigan State the most was Bob Commings. Commings is the head coach ~t Iowa, the Buckeye's opponents Saturd~y, and if he's had recurrmg mghtmares about-Custer's last stand, his dream may be
ND hOSts DenVer P 
realized tomorrow. The Haw keyes ought to consider a forfeit.• • tan t WCH' II • There could be some other massacres in the offing. Penn State will
do battle, so to speak, wit_h rugge~ Ohi? University while Texas A_ &_M1n r may be out to score 100 pomts agamst RICe. Texas, another upset VICtim last weekend, will face 1-8 TCU in a game that'll make Bunker Hill look by Bob Kissel Tim Byers; Bill Guisti handlf:s the minded the last four years. like a snowball fight. The last of the upset casualties, Florida, will still 
faceoff duties for 'Moose' Novitski Seniors Mitch Brandt, Bob Young, have its hands full this weekend when it meets Kentucky. Hanging on the varsity hockey and Dave Howe. Dave Tomassoni, and John This week's picks:bulletin board is the WCHA 
Pearson have four years ex­Pittsbm·gh at Notre Dame: The Irish have had two weeks to get ready coaches pre-season poll. Lefty At the blueline Smith will go with perience each at the blue line. for this one, and a loss would now mean disaster. The Panthers have aSmith's counterparts "gave" the Les Larson and Rog Bourque, Lew
Curry and Dave Bossy, and Jack "Denver is a much better club talented tandem of troublesome tailbacks in Tony Dorsett and freshman 
than anticipated four weeks ago," 

Irish 9th place. To say the least, Brownschidle and Dick Howe, for Eilliot Walker, but neither is 100 per cent. Still, the Irish "D" faces its the ND icers are out to prove to the injured Clarke. Lennox Moher noted Smith. "Denver has a 3-1 toughest test so far against Pitt's multi-faceted attack. The Panthers will 
Denver this Saturday night and will be in the nets Saturday night record, good enough for second in have trouble handling NO's. Notre Dame by 18. Peggy Lawlor: ND bySunday afternoon they are not a and John Peterson sunday af-the league, so we must play smart, 
21.

9th place team. ternoon. two-way hockey, 60 minutes both Michigan State at Indiana: Any hope the Hoosiers had of proving they With each weekend series and Last weekend Coach Murray games." 
weren't that bad disintegrated last week at Northwestern. They'redaily practice, Coach Smith and Armstrong's Pioneers won both "This is very definitely a big worse than bad. MSU by 17. Lawlor: MSU by 21.
his players have been slowly • but games from the Wolverines 5-4 and 
series for us," commented Smith. 

Alabama at Miami: The Crimson Tide are getting better every week,surely, ironing out the kinds of 5-3 with six freshmen among the 20 
"We adjusted to get balance, now 

much to Notre Dame's chagrin. With the number one spot on the line,problems any young team faces. Pioneers skating. Two of the 
we adjust for injury fill ins. which 

they shouldn't let the Hurricanes impede their progress. 'Barna by 20.
"After the Colorado series we rookies were goalies Ernie 
can be disruptive to a young club." 

made several line changes which Gl "ll d B b L' Lawlor: Alabama by 10. give us the needed balance across anvi e an ° Ieg. "If we cut down on our mistakes North Carolina State at Arizona State: The Sun Devils are an atypical
the board," explained Irish coach "If we keep playing like this in these games and reflect the Frank Kush team this year. The Wolfpack upset Penn State last week and (Michigan), maybe we'll have continued improvement I see in
Smith. "AgainstBowlingGreen we ourselves a hockey team," com­are currently on the upcycle. NC-State by 7. Lawlor: ASU by 7.
each practice session, then we're

made fewer mistakes, ~is time mented Coach Armstrong, now in Texas Tech at Baylor: This game's a tossup. Both teams are en­
ready. A sweep against Denver

mamly from over-enthusiasm and his 19th year at Denver. "The tertaining Cotton Bowl aspirations and both teams have achance. The
would put us back in the thick of

men~al errors. The forwards were performances by our veterans and Baylor Bears have been hard to handle lately and the Red Raiders will be 
the league race and also give us the 

gettmg caught deep on ~he rookies at forward and goal have confidence to go over the top." the next to find that out. Baylor by 10. Lawlor: Texas Tech by 10. 
forecheck which gave gD?,d scormg • been important to our success so Dartmouth at Cornell: Dartmouth is in the running for a berth in the
The games against Denver are

chances to_the_Falcon~.. far." 
Saturday at 7:30p.m. and Sunday bottom ten. Unfortunately Cornell isn't much better. Scientifically~oalte_ndi~g IS. a position for the The Pioneers are a well-coached afternoon at 2:30p.m. WSND will speaking, C comes before D, so Cornell ought to win by 7. Lawlor:lnsh wh1ch IS gomg_ to change that team which has been very defense-
cover both games live. Dartmouth by 16.

9th place coaches p1ck. Freshmen · Florida at Kentucky: The Wildcats have been up and down all year,Len Moher (2.3 goals against) and 
and although they're in the Southeastern Conference, they're out ofJohn Peterson (3.0 goals against) Florida's league. Florida by 14. Lawlor: Florida by 7.
have kept ND in every game, win 
or lose. The two goalies have Ohio State at Iowa: "Revenge will be mine," says Woody. But even a consistently come up with the big 1000-0 win won't make him number one again. Don't laugh he may come save when it was needed. close to that tomorrow. OSU by 40. Lawlor: Bucks by 50. 
"Goaltenders never exceed a Kansas at Oklahoma: The Sooners are number one, at least in the AP coach's hopes-not allowing any poll, and they won't blow it tomorrow. They'll probably wait until goals," remarked Coach Smith, Nebraska next week to do that. Oklahoma by 24. Lawlor: OU by 35. "but Lenny and .John have ex­I.SU and Mississippi State: LSU already has four losses and a tie and ceeded my expectations, which has probably can't do anything to salvage their season. The Bulldogs have 
allowed us to apply more pressure 
been surprising all year and they shouldfeaston a few Tigers tomorrow. 
on the forecheck." 
Mississippi State by 10. Lawlor: LSU by 3.
This four point WCHA series Purdue at Michigan: The Wolverines have a chance at the Rose Bowlwith Denver, a team which just again this year. They won't let Purdue get in the way although Ohioswept Michigan at Ann Arbor, will State will clobber them next week and ruin their dreams. But tomorrow, be tough enough for Notre Dame UM by 14. Lawlor: Michigan by 10.

without the added difficulties of Virginia Tech at Florida State: The Seminoles are sky-high afterkey injuries. 
breaking their 20 game losing streak by beating Miami. For them that
Team captain Paul Clarke 
still may not be high enough although Gobblers can't fly at all. Floridasuffered a bruised shoulder Friday State by 10. Lawlor: Virginia Tech by 7.
night against Bowling Green. Paul has skated with the team in 
Washington at Southern California: The Trojans are in a tough race for practice, but cannot have contact the Pac-8 crown and a trip to the Rose Bowl, and Washington shouldn't and still has trouble shooting. Left cause John McKay more than momentary problems. SC by 17. Lawlor: winger Clark Hamilton has has a 
usc by 14. slight ligament tear in his knee Temple at West Virginia: The Owls came close at Pittsburgh last since Tuesday. Both players' weekend until a freshman did them in. The Mountaineers of West status for the series won't be Virginia dropped Syracuse's Orangemen 39-11 last week, but , as Vic known until Saturday's game. Dorr would say, "That doesn't meandiddle."Still, WVU by 7. Lawlor: 
The two injuries have somewhat Temple by 14. altered Smith's offensive lines. 
llpset of the Week: Georgia over Auburn: Granted this isn't as 
Pat Conroy, leading scorer for ND, stunning as Michigan State over Ohio State, but logic makes it the onlywill center for freshmen Don feasible one this week. The Georgia Bulldogs are a lot tougher lthan mostJackson and Kevin Nugent; Brian people give them credit for. Georgia by 6. Lawlor: "You can't get lucky Walsh will pivot between Alex two weeks in a row. Auburn by 13." 
Pirus and Terry Fairholm, 1
Coach Lefty Smith and his Irish will be counting on the scoring punch of Last week: 8 of 15 for 54 per cent. Lawlor, 10 of 15 for 67 per cent~replacing the injured Hamilton; 
Pat Conroy (above) this weekend versus the Pioneers from Denver. Season: 97 of 135, 72 per cent.
Mark Olive centers the scooter line 
Conroy is NO's leading scorer. 1 includes upset of the week
with his wings Allen Karsnia and 2 dumb lucl\. 




