--~~-~---~~ 
On The Inside 
SBP candidates ... pages 3 & 4 Father Griffin ... page 7 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 85 Friday, February 22, 1974 
Ca~npaigns begin 
for SLC. SBP & VP 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
Eight pairs of candidates for Student Body President and Vice President, along with 15 candidates running in 6 districts for the Student Life Council began cam­paigning yesterday at 5 p.m. The campaign will end Tuesday, Feb. 26, at 11 p.m. 
Running for Student Body President and Vice President respectively are: Ray Capp and Greg Ericksen, Mike Gahagen and Frank O'Connell, Pat McLaughlin and Frank Flanigan, Bill Oberhardt and Cal Collins, Ed Rahill and Blake Wordal, Steve Shankel and Bill McErlean, Steve Villarosa and Bill Zimsky, Andy Winiarczyk, Jr., and John Famula. 
Running for representatives to the SLC are: District 1, off campus: Martin O'Shea and Doug Stevenson. 
District 2, Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh and St. Edward's: Phyllis Mosley and Darlene Palma. 
District 3, Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Holly Cross, St. Joe and Moreau: Michael J. Gassman, 'Brian Hegarty, Phillip Mancini, and Stanley White. 
District 4, Grace and Flanner: Joe Fiorella, Denis Sullivan, and Chuck Wilson. District 5, Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, Badin and Dillon: Thomas Clark and John J. Farrell, Jr. District 6, Fisher, Pangborn Lyons, Morrissey, Old College and Howard: Rob Tully and Art Derse. 
This year's election rules provide for the possibility of three elections before students choose their next SBP. After the first vote on Wednesday, February 27, the tickets with the greatest number of votes con­stituting 50 per cent plus one of all votes cast will run in the second election scheduled for Friday, March 1. Conceivably, more than two tickets would be running in the second election. 
If in the second election, no one ticket gains at least 50 per cent plus one of the votes cast, the two tickets winning the highest number of votes will run in the final election on Monday, March 4. 
The candidate winning the majority of votes cast in each of the six SLC districts on Wednesday, February 27, will be elected with the exceptions of Districts 3 and 4, where more than two candidates are running. If one candidate from either district doesn't gain 50 per cent plus one of the votes cast, then another election will be held in that district on the following Friday, March 1. 
Seniors will also elected the 1974 Senior Class Fellow during the balloting on Wednesday, February 27. The Election Committee will still accept petitions for nominations for the Senior Class Fellow until Monday, February 25, at 5 p.m. 
The Elections Committee extended the deadline due to a misunderstanding of the rules where students who were not seniors were signing some of the petitions. 
(continued on page 8) 

RFK, King 
Link to JFK IDorder? 

by Janet Denefe Staff Reporter 
Rusty Rhodes, Executive Director of the 

Committee to Investigate Political 
Assassinations, speaking before a capacity 

crowd Thursday evening at O'Laughlin 
Auditorium, discussed the possibilityof the JFK 
assassination being linked with that of Robert 
Kennedy and Martin Luther King. 
The John Kennedy murder weapon was 

alledgedly a 1938 Italian rifle with twenty-year-old 
ammunition. There was absolutely no evidence 
that Oswald had ownership ofthis rifle except for 
two photographs that the FBI found at Oswald's 
house on November 23. 
These two photos showed Oswald holding the 
rifle and waving a copy of The Socialist Worker. 
Rhodesalledgedthat these photos were falsified; 
the head of Oswald was pasted onto another 
man's bodv. 
Fingerprints not on gun 
The Warren Commission pointed out that even 

though Oswald's fingerprints were not on the 
murder weapon, they were all over the boxes 
near the window on the sixth floor of the Texas 

School Book Depository. Rhodes claimed that 
the Commission neglected to added that 
tOswald! worked at the Depository and his job 

was to stack boxes in the warehouse, which was 
located on the sixth floor. 
Slides taken of the Book Depository revealed 
boxes behind the sixth story window. No human 

figure is visible. However, Rhodes claimed, the 
slides which were taken during the actual 
moments of assasstpation are locked up in the 
National Archives until the year 2039. 
Total time: 5.6 seconds 
The Warren Commission and Rhodes both 

agree that the total time of assassination was 5.6 
seconds. Yet it would have taken Oswald 2.3 
seconds to cock the weapon and fire, Rhodes 
said, and Oswald was supposed to have fired 
three times~ 
Members of the U.S. Olympic Rifle team could 
not duplicate this speed, Rhodes said. The 

Warren Commission admitted that "under 
normal circumstances, these times are not · 
possible. But this was not a normal cir­
cumstance; this man was firing at the 
President." 
Rhodes presented the Warren Commission's 
"amazing super bullet. It made seven holes in 

two men." This bullet initially weighted 160 
grams and when it "fell out of John Connally's 
thigh," it weighed 158.6 grams. 
Prior knowledge? Was there any prior knowledge of the JFK assassination? Robert Miltiere, head of the National States Rights Party-alleged by Rhodes to be anti-Catholic, anit-8emitic, and anit-black-described the assassination on November 9, 1963. In his bugged hotel room in Miami Beach, Miltiere confided to an assistant that Kennedy would be shot to death in three weeks in either Chicago, Dallas or Houston. On November 22, in a taped telephone con­versation, Miltiere told a friend in Dallas that, 


Today••• 

Rhodes is scheduled to appear on campus tonight due to overflow crowds Wedneaday and Thur­sday. 
accordmg to Rhodes testimony, "tonight we shall drink champagne because Kennedy will not be alive." Although these pieces of evidence were sent to the FBI, they deny having received them. 
On November 20, Rose Sheraney, was screaming that a group of men were plotting to kill JFK on November 22. She was locked up. Rhodes said that after the assassination, the Dallas police force questioned here and demanded to know who she worked for. Sheraney was a stripper at Jack Ruby's night­club and she told police that Oswald and Ruby knew each other very well. 
Presidency reveal secrets? 
On June 3, 1968, Robert Kennedy admitted to students at the San Fernando Valley State College that, "I now fully realize that only the powers of the Presidency will reveal the secrets of my brother's death." Two days later, after winning the California state primary, he was felled by an assassin. 

Sirhan Sirhan fired eight times in RFK's assassination and seven of these eight bullets were recovered and booked. However, three other bullet holes were found that were not from his gun. More"Over, seven eyewitnesses claimed to have seen a second gun, Rhodes said. One witness explicitly saw a man behind the . senator, crouched down, firing up into his head. A very complete autopsy report was released ten days later and it stated that the bullet en­tered Kennedy's right mastoid. behind the right 
(continued on page 8) 

magazine of the observer 


mvn1r vr 

published biweekly volume two, number five february 22, nineteen seventy-four 
Senator C~arles Percy (R-111.), will speak Sunday, March 23, at 7:30p.m. 1n Stepan Center, according to Academic Commissioner Andrew G. Bury. Percy, 54, was one of the first Republican 
With the Observer
senators to call an investiaation into Watergate. 

the observer Friday, February 22, 1974 
warld 

briefs 

HILLSBOROUGH, Califo. <UPI>-Patricia Hearst's kidnapers Thursday gave her father 24 hours to put up $4 million more for free food, threatening that refusal would mean she would be kept hostage for two members of the terrorist sect held in San Quentin prison. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The impeachment inquiry staff of the House Judiciary Committee concluded Thursday that President Nixon could be impeached for abusing his powers and violating the public trust, even if he did not violate any criminal statutes. 
FRANKFURT, Germany (UPIJ-Dissident Soviet author Alexander I. Solzhenitsyn left Switzerland abruptly Thur­sday aboard anexpress train to Copenhagen, apparently en route to a life of affluent exile in Norway. 
TEL AVIV <UPI) -The last Israeli troops pulled out of the westbank of the Suez Canal Thursday on schedule, completin the next-to-last stage of the military disengagement agreement with Egypt worked out with the help of U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger. 
an campus taday / 
friday, february 22, 1974 

3:25 p.m.-lecture "the effect of sintering on kinetics ·of co oxidation over supported platinum,"edward f. mccarthy, span. by dept. of chem eng., room 269 chem eng bldg. 
4:30 p.m. -math colloquium, "construction of eomplete deformations of vector bundles," prof. otto forster, room 226 comp center _ 
4:30p.m.-seminar, "silane reductions in acedic media," dr. michael p. doyle, room 123 niewwland 
5:30 p.m.-mass and dinner, bulla shed 7:30p.m.-hockey, nd vs. michigan, ace 7:30p.m.-travelogue, "the faces of sweden," span. by lion's 
club, o'laughlin aud. 8:00p.m.-centennial series, "humanistic techriofogy," adm. hyman rickover, cce aud 8:00pm duplicate bridge, everyone welCome, university club 
8:15 p.m.· concert, philidor trio, span by music dept.,Sl.OO, lib aud 
9:30p.m.. junior parents weekend,activities follow liockey . game with social period, ace concourse 
saturday, february 23, 1974 

all day -junior parents weekend,conferences, receptions, mass, banquet, campus 
7:30 pm -hockey, nd vs. michigan, ace 
8:00 p.m.· drama, "el teatro del barrio," washington hall 
sunday, february 24, 1974 

12:00-9:00pm-art exhibit,paintings by suzanne golubsky, upper moreau gallery 12:00-9:00 p.m. -art exhibit, students pliofo silk screens, hammes gallery 1:00-5:00pm-art exhibit, indiana printmaker's sliow, moreau gallery 7:00p.m-meeting,nd backpackers and climbers, especially linville gorge people, 2nd floor Ia fortune 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 pm -movie, "deliverance," span. by glee club, s· .oo, wash hall 
11: 15 p.m.-interhall hockey,oc vs. dillon, ace 

Rhodes to lecture again on campus 
Because of overflow crowds the past two nights at his lectures, Rusty Rhodes will be speaking on the Notre Dame Campus again tonight. 
Academic Commissioner Andy Bury said late last night that over 400 people were turned away from Wednesday and Thursday's talks. Because of the large turnout, Rhodes consented to an extra evening 's lecture. 
However, as of last night, Bury was not able to obtain a site for Rhodes' talk. He asked all those wishing to attend tonight to listen 
to dining hall and WSND an­
1 

nouncements for the location. 
CALIFORNIA 
for Spring Break 


$212.27 round trip 
Only 30 seats available to Los Angeles 
Leave O'Hare March 8, 6:00 pm. Arrive L.A. 
8:04pm. Return individually. Busses available 
to O'Hare. 
For more information ~ ca II ND Travel Bureau: 


T..,. 
.,.,...Ill

2 8 3 • 7 o8o
'-------------------------.J 

At Villanova 

Sit-ins disrupt classes 
by Garry Allietta Staff Reporter 
Two weeks of sit-ins and student demonstrations marred the beginning of the spring semester at Villanova University. The school has been the scene of frequent sit­ins and protests since Feb. 7, when an open meeting of student leaders turned into a major demon­stration. 
Dennis "H-Man" Etienne, Student Body President, received a request Tuesday from the student Ad Hoc Committee at Villanova requesting financial aid and public support. Etienne said that he personally supported the committee's position and he felt that most of the student body would, too. 
The demonstrations at Villanova are in response to what students felt were violations of certain human rights. According to John Hopkins, editor of The Villanovan, the demonstrations on Feb. 7led to the occupation of the Ad­ministration Building, which is also a major class building. The take-over was an attempt to disrupt regular classes, drawing attention to student demands. 
However, noted Hopkins, the sit­ins have lost their effect. "What is needed now are student­administration negotiations." 
Result of thefts 

SENIOR FELLOW
The trouble actually began in December, before Christmas 

SENIORS ••• "SHOW SOME PRIDE"
break, said Hopkins. Student of­
fices were burglarized and several 
items such as typewriters and 

stereo equipment were taken. Over Lost chance to nominate
the break, the administration 

searched a number of student : the one of your choice 
rooms and found many of the stolen goods. all petitions must be turned in by
Four students, the residents of the rooms, were taken in to ~~~~~m@.~~:=:=:::!~:Z::::::::::~:m;::&:;:;.:;:;m:ill;m:::::;:~::::;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;ili.::;:;:;;;~
custody. For some reason.unknown to Hopkins, the students began to give out names of people they claimed were drug sellers. One of the students named was Student Body President John San Giorgio. 
"On the strength of affadavits against him," noted Hopkins, "he (San Giorgio) was suspended." San Giorgio is a second semester senior pre-med student. He and 15 other students similarly accused were not allowed to attend classes from January 16, the date they were charged, until Tuesday, Feb. 19, the day their cases were han­dled. 
An Ad Hoc Committee, con­sisting of the heads of various 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Me~ry's College. Subscriptions me~y be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

campus organizations, formed to present the student views and requests to University President Fr. Edward McCarthy. The committee is also seeking support from 30 other schools around the country. 
Hopkins added"At the National Students Association meeting in 
Washington  this  week,  the  NSA  
voted their  in an effort to  
"  He noted the  
seems  to  be  

SBP Etiene supports the committee's position. (Photo Maria Gallagher) 
lnternati,onal Film Festival presents 
, Fellini's LA STRADA 
7 pm 9:30pm Engineering Aud. Feb. 25 FREE! 
National Coordinating Committee for ' Justice Under Law 
PRISON REFORl\1 BENEFIT 


CONCERT 
\\' i rh 

JOHN DENVER 
.1nd 
N ittv (;rittv Dirt Band
. . 
STEVE (~()00i\1A ~ 
Bi 11 ()LIVER s,vofford 
MONDAY 
MARCH 4th 8:00P.M. 
NOTRE DAME Athletic & Convocation Center 
Ticket Prices: Loge Main Floor Platform $6.50 
LI)Wer Arena $5.50 Bleachers $3.50 Tickets on sale NOW at ACC Ticket Office and Student Union Ticket Office. 
Twenty to thirty faculty members attended a student rally last Wednesday, voicing their support and that of their colleagues. 
"Faculty members are cautious about speaking out, though," commented Hopkins. 
Villanova "archaic" 
Etienne offered a comparison between Notre Dame and Villanova. "I talked to several administrators. No one will con­cede that Notre Dame is perfect, but in comparison, Villanova is archaic." He said the situation there is bad: no judicial boards, no visitations, no due process for student violators. 
Etienne commented that although he supported Villanova's cause, he did not go along with the occupation of the Administration building. The action may have produced the desired effect, though, he said. 
However, Etinne said that 
several of the student demands 
appeared to have little hope. Some 
of the major demands included 
readmission of suspended sudents 
pending resolution of their cases, 
faculty pay raises, greater student 
participation in government, and 
that university policy making be 
made more public. 

· .the•.obs-oTver '3 
Criticize in loco parentis 
Oberhardt and Collins launch campaign 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 

Bill Oberhardt and Cal Collins, 
two juniors from Sarin Hall, an­nounced their candidacies for SBP and VP respectively yesterday afternoon, charging that "the Student Affairs Office has been pushing the students too far with the doctrine of in loco parentis and something must be done about it now." 
The 2 candidates cited several instances in which they felt that the University had "overstepped its bounds or acted irresponsibly toward the students." They protested the right of the University to search student rooms and promised to investigate the legal implications of such action. 
"The University sees fit to take away our right to privacy through the 'midnight raider' clause of the room contract. We plan to legally challenge the University on this point, as was done successfully at Boston College," explained Oberhardt. 
"[nloco parentis is not a valid policy unless the parents of students actually sign their con­sent to have the University act on their behalf," claimed Collins. "I don't believe that the majority of parents would give their per­mission if they realized all that it entails." 
The candidates claim that at least 6 of their freinds have been "treated unjustly" by the University, having been either forced out of their halls or out of school altogether for "minor in­cidents." 
"We ourselves have dealt several times with the bureaucracy that is the Student Affairs Office. We have been lied to by administrators and mistreated by the judicial struc­ture. We know there must be many other students all over campus who have suffered similar in­justice, and we want to try to put and end to it," Oberhardt said. 
"Quite frankly," he continued, "we are tired of the University using Student Government as a 'pacifer' for the students." Oberhardt cited the LaFortune renovation project and the new calendar issue as examples of such 

Shankel and McErlean speak out on need for student representation 

by Mike Donovan Staff Reporter 

Steve Shankel and Bill McErlean, juniors from Grace Hall, an­nounced their candidacies for Student Body President and Vice President, last night in the Grace Pit. 
Shankel, a pre-med major from 
CantonOhio, said he is familiar with Student· Government and its shortcomings, but he has seen that effective changes can be made. Student Government , he continued, has remained too long as a dark shadow, and must emerge as the strong cohesive unit it can be . He added that since Notre Dame is one of the top athletic institutions in the country it should also be a trend-setter, and an innovator in areas of student concern. 
by Gary Allietta Mike Gahagan and Frank O'Connell, juniors from Keenan Hall, yesterday announced their candidacy for the student body executive positions in the Keenan chapel. SBP hopeful Gahagan delivered a prepared statement outlining the 
aims  of  "The  Irish  Liberation  
Front."  
"Our  candidacy  has  been  

motivated by the hope that we will be abel to act as an instrument for student initiative," Gahagan asserted. The platform calls for more student involvement and less administrative participation in student affairs. 
"The voice of the students has come down with a case of apathy­induced laryngitis. The result has been usurpation of the students role by an opportunistic ad­ministration," declared Gahagan. 
The candidate also referred to what a friend, Chuck Nau, once told him about Fr. Burtchaell saying that Bob Kersten was a good SBP because he studied so much. 
"In Burtchaell's eyes, then, we'll be the farthest thing from good," noted Gahagan. 
The three points of the platform ca_ll for in part: 
1. 
An end to the "chronic tokenism of student in­volvement." 

2. 
Fifty per cent student representation on all councils. "Why call it a Student Life Council if there are more non­students on it?" asked Gahagan in his platform statement. 


3. LaFortune Student Center 
McErlean, a English and Philosophy major from Flossmoor, Ill., spoke of the need for more student representation on the Judicial Board. He pointed out that in the future student rights could be better protected by clearer rules and more flexible punishments. 
S h a n k e I e x p r e s s e d dissatisfaction with the way the Student Union has been run in the past. He proposes that in the future posts be filled by self-nomination with the jobs going to the best qualified. For a better functioning student government,
Shankel is calling for a closer working relationship among the SBP, SBVP, Student Union, and Presidents Council. 
various halls that set up coffee houses while the LaFortune renovation is in progress. The proposed "Irish Pub" should be made into a club, that way bypassing the state law, and opening it up to the entire campus. 
The Ombudsman Service, a valuable asset of the University, should recieve more funds, so it 
can add more qualified personnel to its staff, the platform continued. 
Adressing himself to the needs of the Off-campus student, Shankel is proposing a student owned and operated food co-op.Satisfying the needs of the off-,campus student, the co-op could be profitable as well as helpful in defraying the rising costs of off-,campus life. 
The Shankel -McErlean platform 
According to their platform the calls for a more responsive student HPC should allocate money to te government through uniting and 

Gahagan and O'Connell campaign as "Irish Liberation Front" ticket 
imposed by the non-student 
agencies must be cir-_ 
cumvented now!" they 
argued. 
In an informal discussion after the announcement, both can­didates agreed that they were "looking more for an input of time rather ideas," from fellow students. 
O'Connell said that "we want to work with the Administration. We can't do it if we're outnumbered. Students don't realize how misrepresented we really are." 
Editors note-The position of the candidates on the following pages was arrived at by a lottery. (All photos by Paul Joyce) 
Jim 
'63 


Chuck 
'65 
1723 S. Bend Avenue This Week's Special: ALL GIFTS AND GLASSWARE -20 percent OFF 
WEST VIRGINIA has "them thar stills" up in the hills, but Notre Dame has the Distillery on South Bend Avenue. 
Go Notre Dame • 
Flatten the Mountaineers! 
EASTON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 10 .perce.nt DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD 
·~~novatjqn_..."J'M..r.ed._.t~pe ... , .. CAS.ES Of·. LI.QUO~ .AN'D WINE TO ORDER KEG'S' · • • ·' 

treatment. promise to shake committee make a list of all of­
things up," he asserted. 
campus housing, complete with Oberhardt and Collins also prices and an evaluation of thepromised to move to help the housing. We also promise to prospective off-,campus !Students. 
pressure landlords whose unfair
"Since no help is forthcoming from practices hurt the off-campusStudent Affairs, we will have a Istudent," Collins said. 
' 


f · 

uni ymg the student body into a 
more vocal and powerful bloc. :Shankel pointed out the need for government pointed out the need for government to be more 
responsive to the wishes of the students. His administration, he said, would be more open to the halls and other interested people. 
Both candidates fielded several questions from the audience and concluded by saying that their platform wasn't just empty promises, but workable ideas. 
The  candidates  plan  several  
talks  at  different  locations.  
..  


HOUISr -.-.-· 
MCIN • TIJE$ • THUI.. -Rl 
9AM.S.»PM WID -SAT 9 AM 12 MOOH 
COMPLmi $HCI'AW 
SRVICf





RoGERS 
All fU Dt_'S PIESCIIIPTIOHS lfOHOUt 
Cal! ~

Optical 
189-7109

110GB ATWIU • OWNH 
I 

.. ,A nice place 
1 
1
to begin your weekend 
.. 

_. -~~~-~. ~ .1?~!1~.~-r 5pm Every Friday 
1 
j 
• . :w .. • ,. ' ... -•
4 the observer · Friday, February 22, 1974 
In Farley Hall 
Capp-Ericksen announce ticket 
by Fred Graver Staff Reporter 
Ray Capp ana Greg Ericksen announced their candidacy last night in the chapel of Farley Hall. Stressing the issues of off-campus housing and better co-operation between the separate departments of students' wishes and act on them, not react to something else. 
Speaking on the housing issue, Capp promised to develop a more effective off-campus bureau in co­operation with Fr. James Shilts. The bureau would have its own office in LaFortune, and would divide its workings into six off­campus districts that would, in turn, be served by Bureau directors. 
The Housing Office would have 
in it a large map to indicate available houses, and a file would be organized with comments about each house from former residents. 
Capp and · Ericksen also proposed an attempt at reviving the off-campus shuttle. They said that with a September start and a plan for advertising on the busses, a shuttle would be more feasible. 
Another point in their Housing plan is the institution of a wholesale beef market, which could save students as much as thirty cents a pound on meat. Capp and Ericksen have already con­tacted a food locker in South Bend, and the owners expressed interest in working on the program. 
Capp said that he would push to 
have the adminstration send a 
letter to allincoming freshmen 
informing them that they could not 
be assured of a room on campus 

McLaughlin, Flanagan 
Declare candidacy 
by Tom Kruczek Staff Reporter

r 
Despite the poor weather
" 
Thursday night, a large crowd gathered in the Flanner Hall pit to hear Pat McLaughlin and Frank Flanagan declare their candidacy for student body president and vice-president. In the presentation that lasted fifteen minutes, the running mates announced briefly their ideas for how the student government should be run for the 1974-75 school 
year. McLaughlin, the current chairman of the Hall President's Council, opened his speech by 
Villarosa. Zimsky 
stating, "It's time we shifted our focus from the social and service aspects. It's time we realize that silence and apathy do not deserve a role. And it's also time to con­clude that emotions and bitterness doesn't convince anybody," he added. 
McLaughlin then stressed that the student body mustnot separate itself into factions, but must in­stead pull together and "set our goals ahead of us." 
He continued, "Let's stop complaining about administrative decisions and start doing something about them. Let's start realizing that we can't play professional games with amateur 

Explain campaign position 
by Tom Russo 
Staff Reporter 

Steve Villarosa and Bill Zimsky announced their respective can­didacies for Student Body President and Vice-President Thursday night in the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery lobby in the presence of a small group of supporters. 
"The focus of our campaign is the realization of the potential that exists within the mass of the Student Body," they asserted in their three-page platform. Essentially, Villa rosa stated, his program calls for a dual thrust at 
uriproving the students' lot in in social life and in its legislative position within the University. 
"Mv main beef is with the 
~ 
students. No one has tapped the potential of the students for action and self-determination," Villarosa explained. Their platform states, "The failure of past Student Governments to tap 
(continued on page 9) 
5 ACADEMY AWARD NOMINATIONS INCLUDING: 

BEST PICTURE BEST DIRECTOR, & BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS 
307 !\ Mtehi&an Sl 28i-1800 LAST NIGHT "DAY OF THE DOLPHIN" 
()JJOI!EATRI 
OPEN 7:00 


their sophomore year. 
Capp and Ericksen said that they would like to further develop the Summer job placement bureau, giving it a place in the Student Government with its own director. The revised bureau would deal directly with individual alumni. 
Capp and Ericksen proposed a number of improvements for relations between Student govern­ment, the Hall Presidents Council, and the Student Life Council. 
Capp proposed strengthening the Judicial boards in the halls, and expressed his opposition to parietals. 
Capp announced that he had conferred with Dr. Philip Fac­cenda, VP of Student Affairs, as to the possibility of installing por­table basketball and volleyball 
tactics. Let's stop ra1smg our eyebrows and start raising hell." 
McLaughlin then began to stress the importance of the halls as the social center of the students' life, since at Notre Dame there is no other place for the students to go. He also stressed the importance of the Hall Presidents' Council as courts in Stepan Center during the winter months. The Proposal has already been approved by the Student Affairs Central Staff, and is awaiting the decision of other members of the ad­ministration. 

Ray Capp has had several years eJ. ,Jerience in Student Govern­ment. Greg Ericksen is President is President of the Junior Class, 
and is Chairman of the Junior Parent's Weekend committee. 

"the most open and most informal forum on the campus." 
McLaughlin then turned the talk to the off-campus students. "Let's revive the publication of prices of the different retail food stores of the area to demonstrate which are 
(continued on page 9) 
i~r Qhdonial Janrnkt ~oust 



"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
:$::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::a: 
:::: 35 Varieties of Pancakes :::: 
tchicken -Steak -Sandwiches :~i~~ 
::::Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ::::: 
=~::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~: 
Your Host

U.S. 31 ( Dixieway) North (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edward NO '50 
The Playhouse Proudly Presents 
SOUNDS 

uNITY L AND OVE 
from cleveland, ohio 
friday & saturday 10-3 pm 


Student Union In' ites You To. 
ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 n ites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
1/2 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar 

* 
Baggage handling & transportation to & from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
HURRY! 

SOME SEATS STILL AVAILABLE! 
Questions • call Sween at 3669 
Friday, February 22, 1974 the observer _. 5 

NOW RENTING 
CAMPUS VIEW 
J 

APARTMENTS 
ONE & TWO BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS 
CONVENIENT LOCATION 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 


AVAILABLE FOR OCCUPANCY AUGUST, 1974 
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 232-5853 
CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT COMPANY 30 12 E. EDISON ROAD, SOUTH BEND 
RENTAL OFFICE OPEN: FRIDAY 1-5 SATURDAY 1-5 
SU.NDAY.... 1-5 

r 
Last Paint
f THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett
Art Ferranti Editor-In-Chief Executive Editor Executive Editor

r 
NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos EDITORIALS: 283-8661Lee Gentine 
Business Manager Advertising Manager
BUSINESS: 283-7471 Friday, February 22, 1974 

Today It Begins 
Today it all begins again. 
The time has arrived for us to choose the type of student leadership we want here at Notre Dame. For the next five days we will have the opportunity to evaluate the candidates and decide upon that choice. 
And by that choice, we may well be evaluating our life here at Notre Dame during the past year. 
For the last two years we have rid ourselves of the serious politico, at least in the conventional form. Our leaders have been soft-spoken and basically service oriented. They have served a valuable purpose-they have brought the importance of a leader back into focus. 
We need someone to carry on the service work of these past leaders. Their programs showed promise, and only time stood in the way of their carrying them to their completion. Their work must be continued. 
But during the same two-year period, the student body has had to divide its attention between three leadership­oriented groups: the SLC, the HPC and Student Government. Anyone affiliated with group dynamics will point out the difficulties inherent in such a situation. It makes it truly difficult for the group to put any sense of trus.t in one spokesman. 
And we desperately need a spokesman. 
We need a spokesman to question the validity of administrative programs, administrative ru1es, and adminstrative credibility. We need a spokesman to assert our place in this institution. We need a spokesman to garner whatever quantity of respect we are capable of eliciting from those that run this place. 
And perhaps we don't have to eliminate two of the three bodies in order to draw a focus on one spokesman. That's the easy way. The more difficult way, and the more valuable by far, is for one individual to step above the run-of-the­mill candidates and become that spokesman. 
Perhaps that candidate doesn't exist here this year. But let's not overlook him if he does. Let's force him to surface. In the next five days, let's fill the sights of campaign presentations, search like never before and make him rise above. If he does not exist, we will be no poorer for the effort. 
But if that man is here, let's find him. Let's not face another year of ambiguity. Our just place in this university may well be slipping subtley from our grasp. 
-Butch Ward 

Open The Archives 
The presentation that Rusty Rhodes gave in Washington Hall Wednesday night was absolutely devastating. Completely documented, seemingly airtight, Rhodes weaves a case to disprove the Warren Commission report. 
Whether you believe his conclusions or not (and it's difficult not to), the questions that Rhodes brings to mind and the doubts that he casts across the Warren Report are enought to demand that the issue of our President's assassination be reopened. 
daanesbury 
Presently, the material evidence of the assassination is locked in the National Archives until 2039 (75 years after the event). Yet these persisting doubts are reason enough to open the archives and allow the evidence to be looked at again. 
The investigation into Watergate has already taken more time than the in­vestigation into the murder of an American president. The case must be reopened and restudied and it must be done now. Not in 2039. 
-Jerry Lutkus 

varry trudeau 

, 
\. 1 ' 
~----------------~ 

WHAT A OUM8 IT'S AN 
ANOWHm APPUCATION, l-AW 
()1/~STION, HOU/1~/ 

.J GROIA/t/f? M&. roo! H0/111&. I'M 5CHOOL? 
SH~'s GOING TO tAW 
O&PENOS.
SCHOOL-8&CAVS~ ON~ 
1'M601NG 1HAT'S Hf, 1lJO! 

YO// GOT ANY NON/3 ~ /..AlAI SCHOOL. WANT TrJ 60 
708EONE RIGHT; CAN I
OAY 5/IE'S PROBABL-Y

o APPLYING TO WHY /JO YOU 
5K&L&10N5 Or YOll~ IN YOUR.. flt£'51l/AX! CUJS&T? I 
60/NG TOB&A HOW 
OfHfR. TOP OGAR.. 8GA 
~~,·


2-22. 
Storyteller 
j.napier 
The audience rises to its feet, applauding a small, bald man standing alone before them. The man's eyes, humbly poling above the podium, acknowledges the crowd's applause. His head repeatedly bows with the calm warmth and endless tradition of his Jewish personality. Each sharp, grateful nod increases the ovation, the clapping people ever tightening their caress around the small man's warmth. The applause becomes more thankful; the tiny man turns his hand and waves for the crowd to be silent, the movement of his hand seemingly telling the crowd he, a little Jewish story teller ,isn't worthy of such affection. The applause 1 grows warmer. 
Finally, the humble man, feeling so out of place, leaves the view of the audience. The crowd's hands slump and wither, but the people's minds are still drunk with the simplicity of a story teller, Isaac Bashevis Singer. 
Moments before the evening began, several formally jacketted sophomores stood easily conversing with the storyteller. One of the young men asked, "You started writing childrens' stories only six years ago. Why did you start writing them?" 
With all the honesty of a man who knows simplicity, the old man replied, "I will tell you the truth. When something goes right, you stay with it. You write more of it. Someone said, 'Isaac, you should write a children's story. You would be good at it.' So I did. And it was suc­cessful, so I keep writing them.'' 
"Ah, what is the book you have," Mr. Singer asked turning to one of the sophomores. "Abnormal Psychology, I see. Who is the author of that book?" 
The sophomore quickly raced his eyes over the book's cover. Failing to see the author's name, he nervously flipped the cover and thumbed through the beginning pages. As if to teach a lesson, Isaac Singer gently spoke, "You see. He reads a book the way it should be read. He does not know the author. He only cares about what the author has written. That is how it should be. Read the book for what is in it. The name is unimportant." 
The conversation continued as people began filling the auditorium. One of the sophomores mentioned a current best seller and asked the storyteller's opinion. "To tell you the truth, I have never read it but I heard it was not so good," answered Mr. Singer. 
"Yes, I'm afraid it was written simply to make money," offered a 
sophomore. 
"One should never write to make money," said the man in his thick Yiddish accent. "You can decide to make money or you can decide to write a book. If you put your mind to it, you can do either one. But even if you write a best seller, how long does it last? Better to write a story, maybe you don't get so much money but people always read it. Today I get some money from a book I wrote forty years ago. People still read it. Better to write a story." 
"How do you write stories, Mr. Singer?" asked a sophomore. 
"I will tell you. You need three things. You need a plot. I must always have a plot before I write. You must have a passion to write your plot. And more than anything, you must be able to say it in a way only yoill can say it. You must have this or you cannot write.'' 
By now, the auditorium brimmed with people. The group in­terrupt~ed their conversation and walked onto the speaker's platform. An hour later, the Jewish master stood before the full auditorium asking for questions, "H anyone has a question, stick your hand in the air andl ukaquestion. I will try to answer, if I can, your question. IfI cannot aDIWer it, I have a trick. I answer a different question." 
A volce from the auditorium asked, "What should be the role of the 
reader iD Hterature?" 
"The role of the reader in Uterature," the voice of living Yiddish answered with a wide but honest smile, "And you will hate me for my answe1r-is to enjoy. Just to enjoy." 
The simple story teller soon finished. The crowd burst into new applause and rose to their feet once again. The humble man waved to the people asking them to spare their embarrassing gratitude. He nodded and with an overwhelmed smile he seemed to say, "You must be applauding someone else, not Isaac. Please sit down. I am only a storyteller.'' 
Later in the evening, Joyce Carol Oates approached Isaac to ask him one final question, "You stole the festival tonight. You know that?" 
The little man replied again with his simplicity, "No, I did not. One 
is either appreciated or not appreciated. I was only appreciated." I 
am only a storyteller. 
the observer 
Night Editor: AI Rutherford Ass. Night Editor: Gary Allietta Layout: Terry Keeney, Ann McCarryGreg 
Rowinski, Mike Donovan, Tom Day Editor: Val Zurblis 
. 
Copy Editor: Greg Rowinski Pictures: Albert D'Antonio Typists: Joe Abell, Gary Allietta, Claire Kelly, 
Mike Seidel Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Joe Abell 
1 ' -• ~ { I I t • I i . 
As I have mentioned before, I think my Protestant father would almost rather have heard the news that I was keeping a teen­age mistress than that I was attending the Roman Catholic Mass, back in Maine in the Forties. He could not have grieved more if I had sinned in the traditional ways of the prodigal son, though it would have hurt him deply if I had become a drunkard, and it would have caused him anguish if he thought me unchaste. 
But my error in his eyes was that I became a Catholic. Afterwards, for nearly a year, my father and I lived in the same house as strangers who seldom spoke, with me full of guilt, and him full of distrust toward a son who consorted with Jesuits and communed on alien sacraments. His love for me was choked with anger as he struggled until his death to be the forgiving dad who could reach out with pity and un­derstanding toward his disobedient boy, his youngest child. He never really made it, and I was said by my family (though my mother never claimed so) to have broken our father's heart. On the night I left for college to begin undergraduate studies leading to the seminary, my father s•~~d weeping at the railroad station in Portl< ad, Maine. I never saw him again. When I came home in December, it was to attend my father's funeral. 
One's first Eucharist should be an affair of honor and innocence; mine was an oc­casion of deceit, since my family did not know I had become a Catholic. For months, I had taken religious instructions from the Jesuits at the local high school; and early in November, I was baptized conditionally in the ancient Faith of Rome, abjuring, ac­cording to form, the errors and heresies of the Protestant persuasion. On the Sunday following my baptism, I was to make my First Communion as a Catholic. 
So innocent did I keep my family of my underground life of faith, that I attended Protestant worship with them on the same Sunday as my First Communion. As an occasional practitioner of duplicity, I have always hated that inner· gloom that comes with being dishonest. It did not help to know that my father regarded Catholics as the worst kind of hypocrites, and he despised hypocrisy as the worst kind of sin to be guilty of. There is no way I could have said to him: "Middle-aged parent, for years I have loved rosaries and Masses and the rituals of Latin. For years, I have been a protege of the papistry you hate, and now I want to become a convert to Rome." He would better have understood a choice of self-evisceration. Catholics couldn't help what they grew up to be, he thought, but Protestants knew better. Protestants knew 
that religion involves an integrity of the conscience. It has nothing to do with Friday abstinence among adulterers, and priests who drink (Methodist as he was, my father never took a drink; but he knew that priests did it, because he had seen them); and souls ransomed from purgatory with money for Masses exploited by the priests from poor widows. 
So, about as sensitive as a fence post to my father's feelings, I became a Catholic who had to make a general confession in order to received conditional absolution beforeCommunion. I was so nervous about confession the sins of my life that it took me from three o'clock in the afternoon until seven-thirty to get up enough courage to go into the box. By that time, the priests had heard the afternoon penitents, gone to supper, and returned to the church again for the evening absolutions. Afterwards, when I finished saying the rosary, given as a penance for my young sins. I did not want 

Friday, February 22, 1974 the observer 
Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 
twice-told tales of an idiot 


any barriers of guilt standing between me and my First Communion; to avoid temp­tations, I went straight home to bed. At eight-thirty that night, before my parents could ask me where I had been or anything else I would have to lie about, I was in bed, trying to sleep. 'The next morning, with a sinless conscience, I went to Holy Com­munion in the Catholic church, for the first time in my life. 
It was five months before I could go to Communion again. The next time had to be in Boston, away from the careful eyes of acquaintances, who would report it to my parents. 
It was not easy being a crypto-Catholic, a closet Roman. In the eyes of Catholic friends who knew, I was a hero. Inside, there were feelings of shabbiness, guilt, and fear, and a growing sense of wanting to become a priest. But I was no hero, unless it is heroic to lead a double life, and to lie and deceive those who love you. For the months of suffering imposed on my family, I cannot boast or be proud. With a little more gentleness, a little more honesty, I would not have hurt my father so much in the great love he felt for me. 
All of this would be ancient history if I had not heard recently that my ecclesiastical father-the father given me by faith and church-is troubled by my Eucharistic practice in the Mass. I have never had much luck with those superiors who are my ghostly fathers, possibly because of my early failures as a son. Yet, I have always honored them in my heart, just as I honor the New England father who grieved until death over my choices of faith and vocation. It is too much in a lifetime to have failed in obedience with even one father. I won't want it to happen again. But how can a child prove his reverence toward a parent whom he seems to deliberately be ignoring? 
I do not want, through the Eucharist, to hurt my gentle father-in-faith any more than I really wanted to hurt that kindly Protestant man who did not believe in the Catholic Eucharist at all. One favor I ask from my father's heart, if it is consistent with his concern for the honor and glory of God, and that is the gift of understanding. We are in the deep, dark night of the world, and our little boat is sinking in the cold, gray sea. There are those in this generation who can perish. We must move toward Christ, waiting on the shore to save us, in the best way we can, even if it means walking, as foolish as it may seem, on the treacherous waves. Perhaps, in our wild pride, we may be mistaken, but He seems to invite us to be pedestrians, instead of sailors, on His sea. "Walk close to the shore," He says, "until the waters are calm, and bring your boat with you." On a rough sea, when the storm warnings are up, one does the best he can, even though he risks disaster. It seems better to move, in un­traditional ways, toward salvation on the shore than to drown without resistance on the perilous ocean. 
Sometimes, I look forward to heaven, where I can be at peace with all my fathers. In the meantime, I never said I didn't love them. 
this weekend with the marx brothers 
Almost fifty years ago the Marx Brothers were starring in their own Broadway hit, The Cocoanuts. This weekend the film from that same play in addition to five others are appearing on the Notre Dame campus. 
The Marx Brothers' style evolved as they knocked around in vaudeville for over ten years until it took shape and brought them back to their hometown New York, and Broadway. Beginnings as singers and musicians with an odd and ever-changing cast of characters, they were, by their own admission, terrible. Their beloved mother, Minnie, pushed them in that direction as the surest way to escape the poverty of tenement life on 92nd street in New York 'City. After retiring from the act herself, Minnie remained at home as a full-time manager and the brothers were off on their own. Without Minnie's firm hand all discipline evaporated and the Marx Brothers style emerged. A cast of characters emerged, too, eventually narrowing to four: Leonard, Arthur, Julius, and Herbert. Of course, they were known better, in public and private, as Chico, Harpo, Groucho, and Zeppo. The fifth brother, Gummo, (Milton), joined the army in time for World War I, and did not want any part of the act after being discharged. 
The brothers' names came to them about as haphazardly as their comic style. In their early days in vaudeville, it was common for performers to have an "o" at the endo f their stage name, Rollo, Socko, etc. During a poker game between shows the dealer dealt a card to Harpo by saying, "here's a card for Harpo," because of the harp that he dragged along with him everywhere he went. The dealer then found himself forced to give a name as he dealt to each brother. Chico (pronounced "Chick-o") received his name from the vast number of girls he often chased, Gummo for his habit of wearing goloshes on his shoes, and Groucho for the grouch bag worn around his neck in which he would miserly store his few pennies. The first time they used their names for ad­vertisements the printer inadvertantly dropped the "k" from Chico's name and it was lost forever. Later, Zeppo received his name by being the only brother with any athletic and physical prowess to speak of. He later objected to thie reference to a 
chimpanzie and simply changed his name to Zeppo. 
The Marx Brothers finally made it in 1924 with their smash hit, I'll Say She Is on Broadway. They followed that with two more plays and almost a dozen movies. The pinacle of their success was in A Night at the Opera, which includes the now classical "stateroom scene." 
Known as the master of the deadly insult, Groucho was once asked by a passing motorist if Groucho could be so kind as to 
v 

insult this fellow's wife. In response Groucho said, "You should be ashamed of yourself. With a wife like that you should have no trouble insulting her yourself." 
It was not beneath Chico to fake a heart attack in order to force himself out of a nightclub engagement for he was losing more in the casinos than he was making on stage. 
Harpo managed to visit the Soviet Union as the first American entertainer to play there since the revolution. Harpo left 
by pat donahue 
'Russia smuggling out state secrets taped to his leg. 
In 1924, following the Marx Brother's opening of their Broadway hit, I'll Say She Is, Alexander Woollcott wrote in The New York Times, "There should be dancing in the streets when a great clown comes to town, and he is a great clown." The clown was Harpo Marx, and he and his brothers, captured on film, are spanning fifty years of comedy in six of their finest films this weekend in the Engineering Auditorium. 
a taste of the brothers 
compiled by fred graver 
The Marx Brothers, like the laughter they produce, are better left un-analyzed and un­criticized. It is in this spirit that I compiled these favorite scenes from some of the films being shown on campus this weekend. There just isn't any other way to demonstrate the magic of the Marx Brothers. 
From The Cocoanuts 
Groucho (to Chico): Come here, Rand McNally, and I'll explain this thing to you. Now look, this is a map and diagram of the whole Cocoanut section. Here's Cocoanut Manor. Here's Cocoanut Heights. That's a swamp right over where the-where the road forks, that's Cocoanut Junction. Chico: Where have you got Cocoanut custard? Groucho: Why, that's on one of the forks. You probably eat with your knife, so you wouldn't have to worry about that. Now here's the main road,leading out of Cocoanut Manor. That's the road I wish you were on. Now over here-on this siet we're going to build an Eye and Ear Hospital. This is going to be a site for sore eyes. You un­derstand? That's fine. Now right here is the residential section. Chico: People live there, eh? Groucho: No, that's the stockyard. Now all along here-this is the river front-all along 
the river, all along the river-those are all the levees. 

Chico:Thatsa the Jewish neighborhood. Groucho: Well, we'll pass over that. You're a peach, boy! Now here is a little peninsula, and here is a viaduct leading over th the mainland. Chico: Why a duck? Grouco: I'm all right, how are you? I say here is a little peninsula, and here's a viaduct leading to the mainland.. Chico: All right, why a duck? Groucho: I'm not playing Ask-Me-Another. I say, that's a viaduct. Chico: All right. Why a duck? Why a -­whay a duck? Why-a-no-chicken? Groucho: I don't know why-a-no-chicken. I'm a stranger here myself. All I know is that's a viaduct. You try to cross over there a chick, and you'll find out why a duck. It's deep water, that's viaduct. Chico: That's why-a-duck? 
From Monkey Business: Madame: I don't like this innuendo. Groucho: That's what I always say. Love flies out the door when money comes inuendo. 
Chico: I'm hungry, I didn't eat in three days. Groucho: Three days? We've only been on the boat two days. Chico: Well, I didn't eat yesterday. I didn't eat today, and I'm not goin' to eat tomorrow. That makes it three days. 
/ From Horsefeathers: <Chico is at the door of a speakeasy. He ha the password, Groucho has to get it.) Chico: Who are you? Groucho: I'm find, thanks. Who are you' Chico: I'm fine, too, but you can't come i unless you give the password. Groucho: Well, what is the password? Chico: Oh, no, you gotta tell me. Hey, I te' you what I do. I give you three guesses, it' the name of a fish. Groucho: Is it Mary? Chico: <laughs( At's no fish. Groucho: She isn't? Well, she drinks lik one. Let me see, is it sturgeon? Chico: Chico: Hey, you crazy? Sturgeons doctor cuts you open when you're sick. No\\ I give you one more chance. Groucho: I got it! Haddock! Chico: Atsa funny, I gotta Haddock too. Groucho: What do you take for a haddock Chico: Well, sometimes I take-a aspirir sometimes I take a colome!. Groucho: Say, I'd walk a mile for a calomei 
Chico: You mean a chocolate calomel? like that too, but you no guess it. Hey, what~ a matter? You no understand English? Yo can't come in here unless you say swordfisb Now, I give you one more guess. Groucho: Swordfish, swordfish. I think I go it. Is it swordfish? Chico: Heh! That's it. You guess it. 
. Groucho: Pretty good, eh? 
-~-----­ 
J  ....  8 •  " ., " .' ~. . . the, obseiver:. ');  '· .. '· t, 4 '. t '' ' f~ .:, .. ' '" ,.Friday, February 22, 1974  •. ~ ·  
Seventeen vie for SLC positions  

--r­
by Debbie Lynch Staff Reporter 

The Student Life Council, which has been under much criticism this past year because of the 1974 school calendar has drawn 17 nominations to fill 6 positions. 
In District 1, representing off­campus students, Marty O'Shea and Doug Stevenson have turned in petitions. In District 2, Darlene Palma and Phyllis Mosley have been nominated. To represent the students in Holy Cross, Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, and St. Joe's, Stan White, Mike Gassman, Brian Hegarty, and Phillip Mancini vie for District 3. 
District 4 students in Flanner and Grace have Joe Fiorella, Denis Sullivan, and Chuck Wilson contending for a position. John Farrell and Tom Clark have petitioned for the 5th District of Alumni, Badin, Walsh, Sorin and Dillon. 
District 6 has Art Derse, Bob Tulley, and Kevin O'Neil con­tending for a position to represent Morrissey, Pangborn, Lyons, Howard, and Fisher. 
Students "abused" 

"There has been no con­sideration, no opposition, to the administration taken by student government, " according to O'Shea. "The students this year have been abused. I will work for the reversal of arbitrary, vague rules like those of student morality." 
.nk to JFK
Ll 
Stevenson remarked that he basically wants to improve communication between off­campus students and the University by means of the in­terhall commission which is in charge of the off-campus office. "I would ;reestablish the o-c office with better hours because it :;t!ems that the SLC forgot off-campus students," said Stevenson. · 
In District 2, Palma would have the obligation to represent the students' views. She stressed the idea that she wanted to be the voice between students and the ad­ministration. 
Mosley stated that she felt SLC was ineffective last year. She wants to represent District 2 for a means of accomplishing something for the students' benefit 
SLC "silenced" 
In District 3, Gassman remarked that the power to act is still in the SLC, but that its voice has been silenced. A liberal attitude must be taken to update and define the philosophies of parietals and the use of alcohol, he believed. 
He emphasized more student voice in the SLC. 
Brian Hegarty suggested a twofold possibility to bring about change. The SLC should bring decision making to individual halls and students with such issues as the calendar. Also equal representation on the judicial appeal board with two students to one faulty and one administrator. 
Hagarty suggested that each hall 
staff and rector be allowed to 
• • decide on party rules and that the 

assassinatiOnAcademic Council should adopt 
pass-fail options for sophomores. 
Improve LaFortune 
Mancini said that the SLC should do something to make LaFortune a student center and a place for social gatherings. Al!io, the SLC should have a say about housing if students want to live in forced triples. Mancini also suggested keeping black lists of landlords available to students along with lists of desirable housing. 
In District 4, Joe Fiorella stated that he would try to get Flanner and Grace closer together. "I will go the hall council meetings, even down to the level of each section, to find out the students' views." 
Parietals would be the area of concentration of Chuck Wilson. "There is definitely a reason to reform against the administration rules and regulations because they are too strict." Wilson was on the Academic Commission for one and a half years. 
"Reacts just to Administration" 
Denis Sullivan said that the SLC reacts just to administraton proposals. He went on to say that an attempt should be made to update administration proposals and have the SLC make their own proposals while offering con­structiye criticism.Presently he is on the Grace Hall Council. 
Farrell concluded that the students were losing faith in the administration. He stressed that this was essential in progressive education. Farrell said he would be responsible to only the students and he would make sure the students' voice would be heard in the screening of the judicial board. 
On the other hand, Clark stated housing and the calendar were two 

(continued from page 1) 
ear, and travelled up­ward. Rhodes charged that it could not have been fired any farther than from three inches away, yet Sirhand could not be placed any closer than three feet from the senator and he was in front of RFK. Rhodes concluded that another conspiracy had taken 
place. 
"Politics of power" 
Rhodes spoke of the war in 
Vietname, terming it a "CIA war." 
He noted that the Golden Triangle 
area in southeast Asia produces 93 
per cent of the world's heroin. This 
is flown to Hong Kong via Air 
America, a CIA airline. 
Rhodes commented that Air 
America's budget had been in­
creased from $17 million to $41 
million. Thus he feels that the CIA 
is heavily involved in the heroin 
trade of southeast Asia and that 
"the whole fight against narcotpcs 
is cruelly ironic and hypocritical." 
He noted that Operation In­
tercept, the purpose of which was 
stop drugs at the Mexican border, 
was a failure. "Its primary pur­
pose was to gain domestic and 
international intelligence." The 
head of this group was G. Gordon 
Liddy, and E. Howard Hunt did 
much of the work. 
Martin Luther King was 
assassinated early in 1968 after he 
came out against the war in 
Vietnam and proposed economic 
boycotts. "In other words, he was 
assassinated when he began to 
preach the politics of power," said 
Rhodes. 
James Earl Ray, his alleged 
assassin, was an escaped convict 
who had $25,000 in his possession. 
Rhodes posed the question, 
"Where did he get it?" 
The same lawyer who defended 
Jack Ruby came out of retirement 
to defend James Earl Ray. He 
pleaded his client guilty in a 
preliminaryhearing,whilRaywas 
screami'1ghis innocence, Rhodes
related. ___ -~-"!".--____.:..;:;.:.:,:::::.:;;:..:..J~~:.:.:.;~:.:.l..---------1 

Campaigns begin 
(continued from page 1) 
After the vote, the Election Committee will rank the Senior Class Fellow candidates according to the number of votes each received. The committee will then begin to contact the candidates in order of pre~erence. until one candidate can come to campus durmg Semor Week later in the semester. 
C_andid~~es fo~ SBP had to collect 175 signatures on their. petitions m order to qualify for the election. Candidates for the SLC had to collect 50 signatures in order to qua~ify. Fifty_signatures are also required in order to quahfy a candidate for the Senior Class Fellow election. Candid~tes for SBP are limited to $50 in campaign expenditures. SLC candidates are limited to $25 in expenditures. 
In addition, the Election Committee has also 
determined restrictions on size and kind of posters and 
other campaign materials. 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE 
* ! TONIGHT_!* 

BILL HOLSTROM TOM FAUGHT 
DUKE STRANG TONY AMENTA DAVE GREY 

~;;;::;;;::~::::;;;~~;;;::;;;::;;;::;;;::;;;::~;;!~;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=! 

School house Too 
In the Brewery 100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 
The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop SPECIAL: 1
0 percent discount upon presentation of student I D HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm .SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 

important issues that he would work to change. As for the housing situation, he suggested a black-list of landlords and establishing the off-campus houses. With the student calendar Clark said he would work more closely with the faculty members on the SLC and let them know what the students want. SLC a "tool" 
In ' District 6, the main issue for Derse is that the SLC can be a powerful tool for the students' welfare. The SLC represents the opinions of the students in relation to the administration, he said. 
Tulley, also running in District 6, remarked that he would like to see the SLC get involved in forcing juniors and seniors off-campus. "They have put it off too long; we need solutions now," he said. Tulley also stressed the idea of a party house and an examination of parietals so that students could have a say about the rules and regulations. 
Kevin O'Neil was unable to be reached. 
THE ROMA 
welcomes all Notre Dame & St. Mary's students your host Frank Anastasio 
THIS WEEKEND: ROCK ENTERTAINMENT BY THE MIDNIGHT SUN 
Pizza * Fine Italian Food * Liquor 
for deliveries call 234-3258 
219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown South ~QQ._ ___ _ 



·' 

Curtis Enterprises, Inc. P.O. Box 54617, Dept. 116
Student Union to provide lists 
Atlanta, Georgia 30308 ' • Hurry -Contest ends Marr:h 8, 1974 •
I'e !I• • • e • • • e • • e • • e • !_• • • e e e e • • • • • e • • •.• •.• lit •'• p •.• •.• ,_ • I·~ •••••
of scheduled entertainment 
1111111111. Fell. !II 7. I. II 1111 Wasllil!llll I all * 11.11 * 



I heard that there has been a new lost and found system set up. Where do we go now to collect our lost items? 
This new, streamlined lost and found system will be operated by the Breen Phillips Moosehunters. The system is as follows: all lost goods will be brought to a certain room in each building. (The_room numbers will soon be posted, or call the Ombudsman serVIce to find the location.) After two or three days, all articles will be brought to room 150 Administration Building. These goods can be picked up Monday thru Friday, 10:00 -12;00 a.m., 1:00; 5:00p.m., and 7:00-9:00p.m .. The best time to come is at night. Some ar­ticles left over from last semester are hats, gloves, umbrellas, 8 watches, 23 sets of car keys, 30 sets of eyeglasses, an 18-carat gold wedding band, camera, a.car radio, a complete set of hubcaP:>, and for the disgruntled football player-one complete football umform. 
Lately, I've been hearing a lot about the fencing team. What are some of the basic rules of the sport? 
It would take too long to explain all the rules. They are very complicated. But basically it goes like this: There are three weapons-the foil, saber, and epee, and each its own set of rules. The only legal strikes with foil and the epee are those with the tip of the blade. Scoring with these weapons is accomplished by a push-button switch in the tip of the blade. The epee can strike anywhere on the body, the foil can hit from the groin up excluding the head and arms, and the saber can strike anywhere aabove the waist. For more information, simply go to the ACC between 4; 00 and 8:00 and ask the fencers themselves. 
What kind of services does the Audio Center provide? 
Contrary to popular opinion, the Center has much more than music. 
They have recordings of many plays, especially Shakespeare's, poetry, and popular and classical music. The hours are from 8:00 am-10:00 pm Monday thru Friday, and 1:00pm-10:00 pm on the weekend. 
by Bob Quakenbus~ The Student Union Services Commission begins a new in­formation program today with the distribution of "weekly schedule information sheets." The listings provide a cen­tralized source of information about concerts, plays, lectures, musical performances, art shows, and movies occurring not only on the ND-SMC campus but in the South Bend community as well. Expected to be the most com­prehensive information listing available, the sheet will list dates, times, locations, and, inmost cases, admission prices of the activities recorded. Rick Gering, director of the Student Union Information Line, explained that the weekly in­formation listing is directed primarily at the off-campus · students, whom he believes are somewhat detached from the sources of information and "grapevines" readily available to on-campus students. 
Nevertheless, he also believes Sunday. They should vary in 

Marx Brothers
the listings could be extremely leugth from two to five pages, ' valuable to on-campus students as depending on the volume of ac­well. For this reason, Gering tivity each week. 

Film Festival
suggested that each hall purchase several copies of the listings each For a fee of $1.00, students can week and post them in visible pick up the listings themselves for 

· February 22nd-24th 
places within the halls for the ~ntire semester at the Student 

at the Engineering Auditorium 
convenience of hall members. Union offices (4th floor LaFor­tune) on Fridays. Or, for $2.50, the The lists will be available each Services Commission will mail the Friday and will cover activities listing direct to the student's place 
FRI: 
from the followingMondaythrough of residence. 
•••DROP IN ANY 
SAT: 
NIGHT THIS WEEKEND AND 
SUN: 
LISTEN TO THE SOUND 
OF CHRIS MANION 

Two films will be presented at each 
On Sunday show your ID 

showing at 6, and then again at 10 pm. 
for a 50' discount on any large pizza I 

Admission to each showing is $1.00 
2 MI. NORTH OF ND UP 31. 

============:===:-=.==-=-=-=====-==::..:.__::===========---------·-·---
Villarosa. 
(continued from page 4) 
this resource has left the student body in a state of submissiveness towards the whims of Ad­ministration policy." 
Concerning the often criticized social situation, Villarosa and Zimsky feel that "the ultimate fault lies on the students. The social and cultural programs assembled by the Student Union and its branches have been of high quality and sound organization. How many students go to the Isis gallery, or even know about the upcoming Marx Brothers Film Festival? There's definitely a feeling of social paranoia on campus." 
They strongly feel that the 
parietal regulations are a major 
factor in this atmosphere and will 
work to bring a decision by Fr. 
Hesburgh or go further if 
necessary to abolish them. "The 
McLaughlin, Flanagan 

Explain new ideas 
(continued from page 4) 

prepared sometime over the the least expensive and of the best weekend. qHality." He also brought up the 
. The McLaughlin-Flanagan
possibility of a legal aid service for ticket are unsure of their specificthe next year. plans for the weekend, "But it will 
Turning to the administration of not include door-to-door visits bythe University, the junior the candidates and disturb the government major said, "Let's people," according to McLauJ;thlin.
throw out the offices and programs that don't work and keep the ones 

:·····~····················································
that do. Let's keep administration .

. END WINTER BLAHS WITH
out of cliques and back in the full . decision-making process." Concluding the five-minute 

/pring Get Away
speech, McLaughlin added, 

The Most Fantastic Vacation Contest Ever!
"Nobody in the Administration is 

GRAND PRIZE: Five day, all-expense vacation in FT.
going to give us anything. We have 

LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA! ~ 
the ideas, we have the system." 

10 EACH SECOND PRIZES: Three days, all expenses, in FT. 
McLaughlin also noted that they LAUDERDALE! will have a more detailed platform OVER $10 000 IN PRIZES! To register, send stamped, self addressed envelope to: 
Zimsky declare 
Administration views the students as dogs in heat to be kept at tail's length." 
Furthermore, the two can­didates propose that the students unite to obtain the power to remove the Dean of Students from office since they feel that the position "demands a person whom the students can trust to deal with them in a just manner, and whose disciplinary measures are positive and not destructive. Such is not the case with Dean Macheca." 
Villarosa plans to use thecampus media to explain the power structure of the University. He also wants to enlighten the students to the advantages of off-campus living by working closely with the Off-Campus Housing Office. "Food co-ops are just an example of the many things which can be done, but up to now have been only talked about." (Villarosa 
"The Cocoanuts" "Monkey Business"  at 6 and 10 pm  
"Horsefeathers' "Dv_ck Soup"  at 6 and 10 pm  

"A Night at the Opera" "Go West" at 6 and 10 p111 
presently lives off-campus on Woodward Ave. Zimsky is a resident of Dillon Hall. l 
"If the stuaents elect a joke candidate at this point it shows that they just don't really give a damn. Itwould be a poor reflection on the attitudes of the student body," commented Villarosa. 
Cancels concert 
The May 2 appearance of Loggins and Messina at the Athletic and Convocation Center was cancelled Thursday by the group's agent, according to Concert Coordinator Richard 
. Donovan. "Columbia Records pressured the act into cancelling their spring tour in order to record a new album. Contracts had been issued by the agency, but nothing had been signed," said Donovan. He confirmed the appearance of the Beach Boys for April 20. The group's third Notre Dame concert will highlight the Saturday night of An Tostal. Ticket information will be released later. 
. planning a \\t'tkling? call lli' 234-5822 \Wdding Photo~raphrr 
234-5822 MICHAEL LONER 
~~ 


'1 0 ' h'' ·,, ,L,f.,{' ~ .i I ·, i ' I ', •,, ' I '• 'I·,"\ • ., 1_' t I'; 
. . ··" .t e .. uo:ser:ver ........ F.nday,.Febr.uary.2:.~.,.t974 

Newspaper editor held ransom 
ON THE CAMPUS ..• NOTRE DAME· · 
ATLANTA <UPI) -The tape­recorded voice of Atlanta Constitution editor Reg Murphy said Thursday night he had been kidnaped for $700,000 ransom by the right-wing ''American Revolutionary
Army." The kidnapers, Murphy said expected his newspaper to buy his freedom. 
The ARA-heretofore unheard of, according to authorities­believes "the American news media have been too leftist and too liberal," Murphy said in the ~ong, rambling tape. "They mtend to do something about that. That's the cause for my 
Helicopter thief 

Army files assault charges 
WASHINGTON (UPI) commander of the 661st Tran­Charges including assault with sportation Company to which intent to commit murder have Preston is assigned at Ft. been filed against Army Pvt. Meade, Md., filed the charges Robert K. Preston, who ended a Wednesday, the Fort Meade helicopter joyride in a hail of spokesman said. The charges buckshot on the White House­comprise theft of the helicopter, lawn last weekend, an Army damaging military property spokesman said Thursday. (the helicopter), breach of Maj. John 0. Northridge, peace (by wrongfullv entering 
Maryland official calls for Simon's resignation 
BALTIMORE <UPI) -Call­ing Maryland's gasoline short­age its "greatest crisis" since the Civil War, deputy state attorney general Norman E. Polovoy Thursday demanded the resignation of federal energy chief William E. Simon. 
Polovoy, the state's second 
Television lab 
to tape free time .contro~led by Democrats, 
~ b d f • 
lOE roa cas Ing 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
Television Laboratory will give 
students the opportunity to "do 
their thing" on television Sunday, 
Feb. 24, at the studios on Moreau's 
third floor. 
The Laboratory, consisting of 
Television Production interns, will 
use equipment owned by the 
Speech and Drama Department to 
tape five minutes of free access to 
the television airways. 
The results will be broadcast on 
Valley Cablevision or station 
WNIT. Though interested students 
can use the on-camera time for any 
purpose, the Laboratory cannot 
guarantee that all will be broad­
cast. 
Debbie Tirsway, will be in 
charge of the production, can be 
reached at 4551 for more in­
formation. Interested students 
must call for an appointment at 
4551 or 234-7596. ------~==========;::;:::::::::=:====':::=;' 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. Thru June 15th, 1974. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 

·.......... S.~tl.Q tbJ~..QQ. !~ Y9.L!~ P.orents.... . 
abduction." 
William Fields, executive editor of the Constitution, said Atlanta Newspapers Inc., part of the powerful Cox newspaper group, will pay the ransom. 
Fields said the tape was delivered to the newspaper's offices Thursday night, more than 24 hours after Murphy left his home in a quiet residential section with an unidentified man. 
Speaking on the tape to Constitution managing editor Jim Minter, Murphy said "I have been kidnaped by the American Revolutionary Ar­mies. I wish you would first tell 
highest legal official said "I join that growing league against Simon. He is totally incompetent and unable to understand the seriousness of the gasoline situation in Mary· land and a number of other states. 
"This is the greatest crisis in Maryland since the Civil War. It's absolute madness." 
While the state government is 
Repubhcan Sen. J. Glenn Beall, a strong Administration suppor­
ter, telegrammed Simon Thurs­day also asking for more gasoline for the state. 
"If relief does not come immediately my state will literally grind to a half for lack of fuel,"he said. 
State Atty. Gen. Francis B. Burch indicated he might ask for a contempt of court citation against Simon, who announced Thursday he would not appear at a hearing Friday on Maryland's suit challenging the legality of the federal gasoline allocation system. Instead, Simon said he had turned the case over to the Justice Department. 
ACAPULCO 
SUNNY 
85° 
the White House grounds), and three counts of assault with intent to commit murder. 
The assault charges relate to the three police helicopter crewmen whom Preston al­legedly charged with his helicopter in mid-flight during his weekend escapade. The officers were Anne Arundel patrolmen Stephen Morgan and Robert Moore and Maryland State trooper Steven L. McCar· ter. 
Preston remains under psy­chiatric observation at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. The Ft. Meade spokesman said officials had asked that a board at the hospital determine if Preston is competent to stand trial. No legal action beyond the filing of the charges will take place until the psychiatric evaluation is completed, the sookesman said. 
STOP BY. 

WE'RE SALEING••• 
You'll find a fine selection sport coats and outercoats included. You can and enjoy a great sa1vings. annual sale .. .it's a genuine chance to save. 
A VERY SPECIAL OFFERING••• 

All VVool 
TROUSERS 
CuHs or no solids or Sizes 29 to 
seve~ral. 
Want a pleasant 

surprise? 
Ask about our exclusive pay-later plan; it's the easy way to go ... well. dressed. 
Army officials said the Army legal hierarchy would not normally file charges until after the hospital check had been finished. However military law permits any member of the services to file charges against any other member, regardless 
of relative time.  ranks,  and at any  
Preston  stole  an  unarmed  

Army helicopter from Ft. Meade after midlnight Sunday, buzzed cars on Maryland highways during the flight into · Washington, and then crash landed on the White House lawn as Secret Service agents fired buckshot at the thin skinned 
~:raft. 
Preston, 20, of Panama City, Fla., was a helicopter repair­man assigned four weeks ago to l<'t. Meade. Last fall he washed out of helicopter pilot training when he was unable to pass tests covering instrument flight. 
"I think I ought to say it's fair that the two groups don't work in concert at all." 
On the contrary, he said, the ARA "tell me that they have representatives in the major American cities, that they are quite strong, and that they are determined to return the American government to the American people." 
He said the group was demanding-although not as a condition of his release-that all federal elected officials resign and that "free elections be held in the future." 

NOW 
ELLIOT GOULD 
Virginia and the children that I am all right, that I have been treated with courtesy and that I have not been abused." 
Murphy said the ARA "want a ransom of $700,000. They understand that I don't have that kind of wealth, so it would 
be  for  the  Cox  Corporation  to  
pay it.  
"They  want  the  money  in  

new fives, tens, twenties and fifties, not consecutively num­bered. They tell me that they would like for it to be packaged in plastic bags." Murphy said he would be the one to open the bag and count the money. 

"Jim, I don't know what the process of transfer is to be. Somebody in the Atlanta metropolitan area will be called at random. They will be given the demands and they expect that person who is called to call you." 
Murphy said "I have been asked to tell you that my abduction was planned at the same time that the Symbionese Liberation Army abducted Miss (Patricia) Hearst, and that there were circumstances that made it difficult to do that at that time. 

------------~· ·---~-~-·-------------­
Groceries lor needy 
Food centers to open 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) ­The doors will swing open at four San Francisco Bay Area locations Friday for the needy to pick up food in Randolph A. Hearst's grocery program for release of his kidnaped daught­er. 
A. Ludlow Kramer, tapped by the newspaper executive to direct his "People In Need" program, told reporters at the Hearst mansion in nearby Hillsborough Thursday that the sites would have enough food to supply 20,000 persons. 
There will be no criteria for applicants, he said, and they will get "whatever they need." 
The food will be distributed in the Hunters Point section here, East Oakland, East Palo Alto and Richmond. 
Kramer said, "We have spent $15,000 in the purchase of food for tomorrow. We have re­ceived $150,000 worth of free food." 
The distribution centers will 
then be opened on Tuesdays, 
Thursdays and Saturdays. 
Other locations will be opened 
next week. 
A telephone bomb threat 
forced police to evacuate the 
PIN headquarters in the Hearst 
Building in downtown San 
Francisco Thursday. Only a 
handful of workers remained at 
the telephones while all volun­
teers were ushered from the 
building by police. Bomb squad 
officers searched the building 
but found no bomb. 
Kramer was asked by report­
ers whether the amount of 
donations would equal the latest 
Symbionese Liberation Army 
demand for an additional $4 
million in foodstuffs. 
"We will be far in excess of 
that amount," he said, if the 
donations proceed at the 
current rate. 
However, Kramer pointed out, this "does not apply to whether he (Hearst) will meet t.he demands." 
More than 3,000 volunteers­using three airplanes, more than 30 trucks and 500,000 square feet of warehouse space -Thursday scrambled to imple­ment the $2 "People In Need" program set up by Randolph Hearst to meet the demands of his daughter's kidnapers. 
Called PIN, the plan aims to begin distribution of free food to 20,000 people . 
The hurried activity in the offices of the Hearst Corpora­tion continued even as Patricia Hearst's abductors notified her father that his offer must be upped by $4 million-to a total of $6 million. 
A spokesman for People In 
Need said the original program 
already had accumulated more 
than $100,000 worth of foodstuffs 
of every description, ready for 
distribution by the Friday 
deadline. 
Contributions included 5,000 
quarts of fresh milk, 4,000 
loaves of bread and a truckload 
of turkeys. 
Organization of PIN began Wednesday under the direction of A. Ludlow Kramer, tem­porarily on leave from his position as secretary of state in Washington state. 
Within two weeks PIN hopes to be a statewide program, distributing enough food to feed 100,000 persons a month for a year. 
"We've had 17 lines ringing off the hook since 8 o'clock this morning," said Peggy Maze, who helped set up the program. "The response has been over­whelming. We've had to turn people away." 
Workers take notes on each telephone call. Offers are sorted and collected in boxes labeled trucks and drivers, babysitting, food, warehouse space, out of town, special contributions and skills. 

Accuses g9vernment of writing off MIA's 
SPOKANE, Washington <UPI)
The U.S. government has 
simply "written off" service 
men still listed as missing in 
action in Southeast Asia if a 
Senate Foreign Relations Com­
mittee memo is valid, a MIA 
wife said Thursday. 
Mrs. Charleen Walters said the briefing memo was appar­ently written for committee use only by a consultant, Richard Moose, and given to committee members just prior to a Jan. 28 hearing on the POW-MIA issue. 
Details of the memo were disclosed at a series of news conferences held across the country by MIA family mem­bers, she said. 
"If this memo is true," Mrs. Walter said, "then all the missing in action are being written off and MIA families are being swept under the rug." 
She said the memo was 
5:15pm Sat. 
9:30 am Sun. 
10:45 am Sun. 
12:15 pm Sun. 
-4:30 pm Sun. 6:30pm Sun. 
obtained from a U.S. represen­tative by George Brooks, who is active in the national MIA movement. 
The memo, in part, read: "At this point, the U.S. policy seems to be to live with the imperfections of the agreement rather than to seek full implementation." 
"This where the MIA families are caught,'' the memo con­tinued. "No one wants to say to the families that we have done as much as politically feasible, or that the possibility of obtaining additional information must be weighed against other policy considerations." 
Mrs. Walters said Thursday marked 14 months from the time her husband, Air Force Capt. Donovan K. Walters, was shot down over North Vietnam while co-piloting a B52 on a bombing run. 

SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC Fr. George Wiskirchen, CSC Fr. Patrick Sullivan, CSC Fr. William Toohey, CSC Evenson Lady Chapel Byzantine Rite -Holy Cross 
4-,. f : • I .-I I f I • # Jl ., • • ., 6 Ill · ~ ..... 111., 
"We are taking food donation offers from any producer, any store, any individual who would like to donate it," said Kramer. 
Recipients need show no proof of povery or hunger, said Mrs. Maze, because it was determined in the Washington program, that more than 99 per cent of those who ask for food need it. 
A bank account was opened for cash donations, including the more than $100,000 sent the Hearst family before the food plan was fully laid out. Donors were advised to make out checks to: "People In Need." 
Teachers believe in impeachment 
of Pres. Nixon 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Al­
most half of the · nation's 
elementary and high school 
teachers believe impeachment 
proceedings should begin 
against President Nixon or that 
he should resign, the National 
Education Association said 
Thursday. 
The NEA said it had made a 
survey, which a spokesman 
said was "scientifically valid 
for a national sample," on what 
teachers thought of Nixon, 
Watergate and other issues and 
what, if anything, they told 
their pupils about it. 
About 47 per cent of the 
teachers polled believe the 
House of Representatives 
should begin impeachment pro­
ceedings against Nixon. 
Asked if the President should 
remain in office before im­
peachment, 54.5 per cent said 
Nixon should stay and 45.5 per 
cent that he should quit. 
An overwhelming 87.1 per 
cent felt the President has been 
impaired in his ability to 
govern because of Watergate 
and associated scandals. 
The teachers, 88 per cent of 
them, said they are willing to 
tackle any "hot" issue in the 
classroom but only 22.6 per 
cent would give their own 
personal opinion on Watergate 
to their students without being 
asked. 
The association claims to 
represent two-thirds of the 2.1 
million American elementary 
and high school teachers. 
The survey, conducted last 
November, posed 10 questions 
about Watergate and related 
issues, the energy crisis, the 
Middle East situation and 
possible impeachment of the · President. 

Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
•• ~, •• , ......... ~,. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
Criminals, beware!! I There's a revolutionary bike lock designed to foil bike thieves. If you don't want your 10-speed ripped off, phone Judy 4970. 
Handmade  Indian  (ewelry  
from the Southwest.  Call tom  
8373.  

The Galaxy. a panasonic modular system. compatibleS­track included $135 or $150 with a.track. Call Ed at 1505. 
Golf Clubs 3 wood 8 irons steel shafts 1 yr. old. Mike 287·9553 after 6. 
TV, 17 in, Magnavox b + w, VHF-UHF $35. Bruce 289·4336. 
Canon Ft6(QL), 35 mm SLR fl4. 
Also 135 mm telephoto 85-205 mm 2000m telephoto, 28 mm wide angle 3 x teleconverter, all with filters and cases. Bruce 289·4336. 
SONY CF 620 Fm stereo -AM Built In stereo cassette recorder. Speakers Included. Colin 7965, 
Guild bass guitar with dula (fender guild) pickup. Case included. 165 or best offer. Calli Jim 1409. 
2 Bob Hope tix, lower arena. Call 1875. 
Pre CBS fender bandmaster head exc. Best offer over $125. 233·1876. 
2 GA West Va. tlx. Call Tim 8559. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride on 1-80 to Iowa City, 
Iowa Thurs. or Fri. Call 6416 nites. $$$. 
Need ridefor 2 to Wheaton. Feb 22 after 3:30. Call 7683. 
Need ride to Idaho , Utah or vicinity. Will share expenses. Call Howard. 1175. 
Need ride toN. Jersey or U. of Ill. Can Leave anytime after 2 pm March 6. Call Jim 1409. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Feb. 
22. Cal Mark 3623. 
Need ride to Terre Haute for Spring Break. Call Tom 3232. 
WANTED 
Newly opened night club in NO area needs cocktail watresses. Call Dave 232-5653. 
Need 2 tlx each night for Wisconsin hockey series. Call Pat after 5 272·4398. 
2 or 3 guys to live in 7·man house next year. Close to campus. Call Alec at 8213 SOON. 
2 guys want 2 girls to share house for Sept. Call Mike at 1100. 
Need 3 hockey tix. for Sat. Jack 3486. 
NOTICES 
SMC Summer School in London with travel in Ireland, Scotland. Wales, England, and 
Paris. May 20-Jun 20. College credit available. $795 plus tuition. Professor Black 284­4948 office 272·3726 home. home. 
Spring Break in Acapulco, Bahamas, or Puerto Rico, via Vagabond tours. $199. Kel 233· 4818. 
Good tix now available for Mar. 1and 2 performances of 2 gentlemen of Verona at Morris Civic . Student Union ticket office open 1·5 daily. 
WINDJAMMER: an 8 piece jazz-rock ensemble available for all musical occasions. Call Don at 1409 for info. 
PERSONALS 
To the guy who returned my jacket: my keys are in the coat that you took. Contact Dave 8625. 
To the Italian connesieur: Its just you 'N' me for always and always. and ever and ever. 
Mole: Don't hold your breath. H.L. 
My social tramps: I love you both. 
Sharey M.' You give me reason to exist. Call me. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost contacts in white contact case, near ACC. Reward. 234­8314. 
Lost blue parka at the armory patty. Call Bill Mahoney at 8109 Reward. 



'learafter vear. semester Iarter semester. the CollegeMaster· from Fidelitv Union Life has lx-cn the most accepted 
most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelitv Union College Master·· Field Associate m your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend , Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 

Carllon Higgenbotham 

-

-------------~------~--------­
I ' 
~1~2~--~th~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r________~F~n~·d~av~·~F~e~b~ru~a~rv~22~·-1~97~4 j 
ND icers face do-or-die weekend l 
Series with U of M, senior departures highlight home-ice set ~ 
by John Fineran 

Imagine Kevin Nosbusch playing hockey; a football player on an ice surface. Sound a little bit funny'? Well, don't laugh. Michigan's Wolverines , who meet the Irish tonight and tomorrow evening in the A.C.C. have two Bo Schembechler players on their ice squad, and one of them, Don Dufek, likely will see much action against Notre Dame. 
Dufek didn't wait long after the football season to make his debut on the ice. As a matter of fact, that debut came against Notre Dame back in December, and the "Wolf" of the Wolverine fall defense scored once and assisted twice as Michigan downed Notre Dame, 6-4. 
But it was the second game, an Irish 2-0 shutout, which Notre Dame hopes to duplicate twice this weekend. Or at least, Notre Dame 
-
would like to have more goals both nights. For the Irish, playoff spots and time are both running out. 
"Michigan is a much-improved team," Coach Lefty Smith said. "They have won four straight against Michigan Tech and Colorado College. "We have our backs to the wall. 
"Michigan has people like Dufek who like to knock the opposition around. This weekend should be an entertaining series because we like to think we can be physical too." 
The Wolverines ' leading scorer at the moment is sophomore Angie Moretto, who has scored 21 goals and 40 points. Moretto is also more of a problem because of his size (6­4, 220 pounds). Dufek, himself, goes 6-0, 195-pounds at left wing. 
Size and scoring ability don't stop at the forwards either. On defense, Dave Shand and Greg Fox, a freshman and sophomore, both are over six feet and way better tthan 185-pounds each. Randy Trudeau, another blueliner, although 5-10, 175-pounds, is of­fensive-minded, having scored seven goals. 
First -year coach Dan Farrell, who has transformed a cellar squad from last year into a top-ten in the nation team perhaps likes this size up front because his goalie, Robbie Moore, doesn't have much. Moore, a sophomore who Irish fans should remember by his antics last year, is only 5-5 and !55­pounds. This is not to say Robbie isn't a capable goaltender. His 4.2 goals-against in the WCHA proves that he is. 
The Wolverines currently stand ll-12-1 for sixth in the league, just four points ahead of the Irish and CC, eighth placers with 9-14-1 records. For Notre Dame, the series is a big one, a must, if they hope to be playing past the March 2 season finale at Wisconsin. 
Notre Dame's lines, defen­semen and goalie should remain 

Cagers at home vs. W.Va. 
by Greg Corgan 

Whenyou're 9-12with four games left to piay few winning incentives remain. However, the West Virginia Mountaineers have several. 
The first is to finish the season over the .500 mark, a feat that necessitates winning their remaining ball games. The second is to assume the role of "spoiler", something they can conceivably accomplish by knocking off the second-ranked Irish this Saturday afternoon and the seventh-ranked Pitt Panthers on March 2. 
The role would not be un­familiar to head coach Sonny Moran and his Mountaineers. West Virginia is the only team to have beaten Pittsburgh this year, and that came in the season opener for both clubs in Morgantown way back on December 1. Since that time the Panthers have won 21 straight ball games, the longest college winning streak in the nation. 
The Mountaineers are coming off a tough loss at Richmond Monday night, 84-83, and before coming to South Bend must meet Penn State at University Park. Last Saturday West Virginia defeated last year's NIT champion Virginia Tech 94-83 on the Mountaineers home court. Five days before that they squeaked by Syracuse 78-77. 
The Mountaineers are led by 6-7 sophomore pivotman Warren Baker who is currently averaging 
17.4 points and 13.2 rebounds per game. The front court is rounded out by 6-9 senior Bob Hornstein (6.3ppg) and 6-6 junior Scott MacDonald ( 4.2ppg). 

Senior Levi Phillips 04.6 ppg) and junior Eartha Faust 05.7 ppg.) handle the backcourt duties, and both provide the Mountaineers with a potent outside scoring at­tack. 
WVU coach Moran won't hestitate to use his bench if the need arises, however. Jerome Anderson, Larry Carr (no relation to Austin), Harold Black, and Dave McCardle are all experienced lettermen and provide a corps of capable reserves. 
The Irish will be on the lookout for the upset-minded Mountaineers although they have not had much trouble handling them in the past. Notre Dame's series record with WVU is 4-1, having lost only in the disastrous 1971 season 97-87. 
Coach Digger Phelps will be bringing his Irish into the game this season though, with a 21-1 record and just off satisfying wins over South Carolina and Western Michigan. 
"Beating South Carolina down there has to be one of our best wins of the season," Digger contends. "We're conditioned to playing this type of game on the road since we've been through some pretty tough wars away from home. But all of these experiences should help us in post-season competition." 
John Shumate, who had 26 points and 14 rebounds against Western Michigan will once again lead the Irish Saturday afternoon, and as WMU coach Eldon Miller said after Monday's night's game, "Shu is one of the finest ball-players in the country and a very physical person. I voted him an All-American." 
Adrian Dantley 07.2 ppg) and "Goose" Novak (6.2ppg) will be up front while Gary Brokaw (17.3ppg) and Dwight Clay (7.8 ppg) will man the guard positions. 
Notre Dame will go after win number 22 at 12 noon this Saturday in a contest which will be regionally televised. 

... 
"Goose" Novak spins off a pick by Gary Brokaw and aims a bank shot at the glass. Novak has been a starter in everyone of Notre Dame's 21 games this season, and tomorrow he will make it 22, as the Irish meet West Virginia at home in the ACC. 
f 

Senior defense man Ric Schafer uncorks a slap shot from the blue Une. Schafer and eight other fourth­year icers will be playing in their final home series this weekend, a do-or-die set against the Michigan 

-Wolverines. 
almost intact for the series. The Ric Schafer-Tim Byers-Pat Novitzki line, which was put together at Minnesota, will be again united for tonight's first of two7:30 p.m. faceoffs. WNDU and WSND will both carry the two-game series. 

Blarney Stone(d) 

For nine Notre Dame hockey players, seniors all, the UM series means something special. For them, it is their last chance to playagainstan opponent in the ACC. That first year, '70-71 started with a pair of_losses at Michigan Tech, and although the current season won't end until ne~t weekend at Wisconsin, these Irish seniors want to leave the ACC m another way than they ended in 1970, 10-5 losers to Michigan State. 
Goalie Mark Kronholm, who will be the Irish. goalie both nights against Michigan (11-12-1 for 23 points in the league)' will leave ND with a school record four shutouts. His last, ironically, came aginst Michigan this past Dec., 2-0. That's quite a feat for this sincere young man hoping to be a Baptist minister. 
Bill Nyrop, along with Ed Bumbacco, holds the distinction of being a ND All-American. 
Nyrop, a 6-2, 205-lb. native of Edina, Minn., has been called intense, a real competitor, and perhaps some of the mistakes he made on the ice in four years were the result of this competiveness. 
Bumbacco has had quite a puzzling season, but last year wasn't. If anything, it was masterful. New league and school scoring records of 90 points ( 43 goals and 47 assists). Eddie was unstoppable. 
This year has been different. Early every team seemed to have his number. Now, probably, they seem to have quit worrying about him. Still, the talent is there, waiting perhaps for this last weekend. 
The next 3 players-Mike Tardani, Larry Israelson and Don Smith­clearly make themselves varsity players through their own hard-work and determination. 
Tardani, who has seen mostly penalty-killing action during the past two seasons, made an impression his sophomore season with his gung-ho attitude. In between that and his junior campaign, Mike broke an ankle. 
Doctors weren't too optimistic about his chances last season, but Mike fought back, and along with Pat Novitzki, formed one of the, if not the best, penalty-killing tandems in the WCHA. 
Israelson, who had been recognized by teammates as the best defensive forward as a sophomore and junior, finally blossomed into such an out­standing goal scorer that he now leads the Irish this season with 21. That, itself, is testimony to Larry Israelson. 
Smith has seen only nine minutes of varsity action in four years, but his is a unique story. As a freshman, he was a junior-varsity goaltender, his sophomore year was spent overseas and last year Don found himself back with the junior varsity. Others would have quit, but Don did not. 
That leaves the tri-captains, Rick Schafer, Steve Curry and Ian Williams. Unselfish individuals all who wanted nothing more than to win. This season certainly must hurt them a great deal. 
Curry might also fall into the last category of hard-workers When he came to Notre Dame, he was that other defenseman from Edina, sup­posedly not too good of a skater or scorer. Steve might have answered those harsh attacks on his ability with his aggressive play. He became the Notre Dame "policeman," feared by all opponents. 
Schafer epitomizes this unselfish attitude well. In his four years, he has played defense, center and wing. Shaef might not look too fast, but last season, when he played forward, there wan't anybody who was quicker backchecking than Ric. 
Willimas has been a mysterious individual. Certainly, no one has been the center of more controversies than Willy. However, when you take a look at the player rather than the person, you'll find no one better and also no one who wants to win more. A weekend sweep against Michigan will elicit, perhaps, only a smile, but deep down, Ian Willi~ms will be always saying, "I just want to win." 
Williams isn't the only senior who wants victory. His is a hope that eight other Irish seniors share. 'And, as these nine individuals get ready to play their last home series, memories fly through this writer's mind. After all, memories play a big part in the Notre Dame tradition. 









