---------------~­
On The Inside 
Mardi Gras a success ... page 2 John Denver coming ... page 3 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 83 Wednesday, February 20, 1974 

Rhodes to speak on
Game machines 


Kennedy assasination
suggested for hall 
in which Lee Harvey Oswald wasby Tom Kruczek characterized by the Warren CommissionStaff Reporter was wrong. His investigation into the past 
of Oswald revealed many interesting

income at HPC 
Rusty Rhodes, an investigator and facts.
lecturer on political assassinations, will These facts, when coupled with evidence by Mary Beth Mungovan speak Wednesday February 20 and that he has uncovered, present a veryStaff Reporter Thursday February 21 on the subject of the powerful case for conspiracy.
assassination of John F. Kennedy. 
On Tuesday evening, Rhodes met withRick Kanser, owner of The Library on Notre Dame Wednesday's lecture will be held at Sherman Skolnick, investigator fromAvenue, suggested to hall presidents .at the ~PC Washington Hall and Thursday's at Chicago. In the meeting Skolnick andMeeting last night that game-type vendmg machines O'Laughlin auditorium at St. Mary's. 
Rhodes exchanged ideas and Skolnickbe installed as a source of income for the halls. 
Rhodes is executive director of the gave Rhodes a first generation copy of theKanser a '73 Notre Dame graduate, said the game committee to investigate political Zap uder film. "Once you see a copy ofmachines' would provide recreational activity for hall assassinations as well as former professor this film, it is almost impossible to believemembers as well as additional hall revenue. ~e at Santa Monica College. He currently is that one man assassinated Presidentforesees a crack-down on minors with false I-Ds m interested in creating student interest in Kennedy," said Skolnick.
Indiana bars in the next months and that this will in­classes or seminars for the purpose of Skolnick also said that we have reached crease the need for other forms of on-campus acquanting students with facts concerning a crisis point concerning the assassinatio!J 
recreation. 
political assassinations. The talk will use "If we have gotten to the point that tluHPC Chirman Pat McLaughlin also announced that slides, as well as the Abraham Zapruder people who assassinated the president an• after two weeks he still has received no reply to a letter film of the murder of the President in not objecting to people going across thesent to Phillip Faccenda, Vice-President for Student Dallas. The Warren Commission, which country telling people that Oswald was notAffairs, discussing means to all.eviate the pr~sent was supposed to uncover the truth in the only person involved in the Kennedyhousing problem. He e stated that If there were still no connection with the death of he president, murder, then we have to assume that these reply by Thursday a copy of the letter would be sent to chose not to look at this film. No reasons people are controlling the show. At oneFather Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees with an 
were given. 
time people couldn't say a conspiracy wasindicatioon that Faccenda made no reply. 
"A conspiracy that was within the involved. People who are surfacing withcountry surfaced in 1963 in Dallas," Watergate are also involved with theRhodes said Tuesday afternoon in an in­Kennedy murder. When you start tying interview with the Observer, "and it is the Watergate people and thesurfacing once again with the current assassination, that is when the real trouble Watergate investigation. Our interest is in occurs."
circulating petitions for the opening of the Rhodes mentioned that, depending on
archieves. 
the feeling of the crowd, he may try toWhere the true facts of the assassination bring into his presentation certain pointsmay be held. We want this information concerning E. Howard Hunt, Frankgiven to forensic medical teams so they Sturgis and other Watergate defendantsmay view the evidence which was been tha t they are at least partly connectedwitheld from the public and from the with the clandestine affair in Dallas.
Warren Commission." 
Rhodes said that a person should try toRhodes mentions that Leon Jaworski, see both sides of a queston before he triesthe current Watergate prosecutor was to make up his mind, especially with abrought in to censor some of the evidence subject such as the death of a president.
before it was given to the Warren Com­"The best way to try to disprove what themission for review. It is Rhodes con­Warren Commission has to say is to readtention the Jaworski withheld information it. UCLA Law School has found some 1058that was important to the decision of the 
HPC is presented with the suggestion of game Warren Committee that only one man different technicalities that it could be machines for additional hall revenue. dismissed on, but before you make up your 
assassinated the President. 
mind, see what the Warren CommissionRhodes also points out that the manner said in its report." 
Hearst to meet SLA demands 
By JACK V. FOX 
which Hearst and the Hearst
ment, confirmed that "tentative in the Seattle area to help the Two Indians, wearing leather
SAN FRANCISCO <UPI) thousands of persons thrown family foundation will contrib­
agreement" had been reached jackets, their arms folded,
Publisher Randolph Hearst ute $2 million, came after the
and that among its conditions out of work by a severe slump stood solemnly guarding the
announced Thursday establish­publisher met with represen~'l­
were assurance that members at a Boeing Corp. assembly door to the conference room at
ment of a "People In Need" of the cooperating radical plant. tives of the six militant activis~ the Hilton Hotel at the San
food bank to start handing out groups.
group would not be prosecuted Francisco Airport.
free groceries by Friday as an by any law enforcement agen­He ran unsuccessfully for act of faith and good will to cy. mayor of Seattle in 1969, pilingsave the life of his kidnaped 
up a $10,000 campaign debt
daul!;hter. Hearst, appearing before TV 
which he paid off in part by
news cameras along with 
getting a job pumping gas at an
Kramer outside the Hearst
The publisher said A. Ludlow Olympia service station.
home in suburban Hillsborough, 


Playboy to
Kramer, secretary of state of The exact locations of the
promised that the family would
Washington State, will set up food distribution centers will be
take no reprisals against the
the program and that a determined by the coalition,
coalition.
coalition of radical groups Kramer said. approved by Patricia Hearst's 
Earlier in the day, Hearst Kramer said there woctid be
kidnapers would act as a sort had called on the SLA to match no identification system for theof "executive committee" over­his gesture of good faith and needy but that food would beseeing the program. 

publish Agnew
said release of the pretty coed, given to those who come in and who will be 20 Wednesday, ask for it. Hearst said he hoped the would be the "best gesture they 
"We will buy our food
could make."

program could feed 100,000 
wholesale, as cheap as we
people a ·month for 12 months. 
can," he said. "We will seek
He said it would be modeled on The mother, Mrs. Catherine 
donations. We will seek free
the "Neighbors In Need" food Hearst, her voice breaking, 
warehouses and trucks." · 
program set up by Kramer in said she hoped Patty would be book 
Washington. released on her birthday. 
Under the NIN program in
"I'll be waiting for her in a

Kramer called for 1,000 Washington, he said, a needy
nice, bright dress," she said.

volunteers to help distribute the family of four gets $6 worth of 
food to the needy as demanded food a week at a reduced price. by the Symbion~se Liberati_on Kramer, a liberal Republican The program has been under­see page 3 
Army, which kidnaped Miss first elected secretary of state way for three and one-half Hearst two weeks ago. in 1964 and reelected in 1968 years in that state. and 1972, helped set up the The announcement of the nuts
Russell Means, a leader of 
"Neighbors In Need" program and bolts of the program, to
the American Indian Move­
-------~---------------­
Wednesday, February 20, 1974
the observer 
warld 

briefs 

NEW YORK (UPI)-The federal court trila of President Nixon's former cabinet officers John N. Mitchell and Maurice Stans on conspiracy and perjury charges began Tuesday. The defense immediately requested all charges be thrown out or the trial moved elsewhere. 
The judge reserved decision on the two defense motions, and jury selecton got under way. Former Attorney General Mitchell, 60, and former Commerce Secretary Stans, 65, were charged with perjury, conspiracy and destruction of justice last May in an indictment accusing each of a total of 10 counts. They could get up to 50 years in prison each if convicted. 

WASHINGTON <UPil-The Senate Watergate Committee voted Tuesday to end its controversial public harings and conclude privately its in­vestigations involving Howard Hughes, and CIA and campaign funds from milk pruducers. 
Sen. Sam J. Ervin Jr., D-N.C., announced the committee voted 6 to 1 to hold no more of the public hearings that made Watergate revelations a daily television event last summer. Te committee acted th permit the courts, the grand juries and the House impeachment inquiry to proceed undisturbed. 
an campus taday 

6:30 p.m.--meeting, physics club, room 118, niewland science 
7:30 p.m·--lecture, "inflation and the u.s. balance of payments," by prof. harold williams, dept. of economics, kent state, sponsored by the american scene series, carroll hall 
8:00 and 10:00 p.m.--cinema 74 "shanghai express," 
josef von sternberg, sponsored by cac, ·engineering, $1.00 

8: 15 p.m.--recital, roberta bowers, mezzo-soprano; 
rhea shelters, piano, sponsored by the music dept., library aud., $1.00 

Philidor Trio to present baroque music concert 
The_ Philidor Trio will present a l'onceJ·t of baroque r.'usic a{ 8:15 ~J.r.'. Friday in the Memorial Library Audiloriur.1. Admission for r he conce1·t, sponsored by Notre Dar.,c's Depa1·tment of Music, is $1. 
The rrio, r.'aking its sixth ap­pearanceat Notre Dar.le consists of 
Elizabeth Huf.les, soprano; 
Shelley Gruskin, baroque flute, 
recorders and r.'useUe, and Ed­
ward Sf-lith, harpsichord. The 
'-Toup, whil'h rakes its name from 
Anne Danican Phiiidor, a French 
gentleman who initiated the first 
scnes of public conce1·ts in France 
m 1725, specializes in music of the 181h century salons of Europe. 
The Notre Dame concert prograr.' includes Transcriptions fror.' Handel's "Rinaldo" by Williar.' Babel!, Songs from "The Beggars' Opera" (John Gray) by Johann Christoph Pepusch, Sonata in E Minor, Op. 1, No.1 by Handel and Dive1·tir.1ento da camera by B11nocini. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the sruc:1ents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S8 per semester ($1.4 per year! from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Ytrtttottt 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 

Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special prie:e. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­
tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 

May be best ever 

Mardi Gras successful 
by Val Zurblis Staff Reporter 
Steve Boy, Mardi Gras Chair­man, termed this year's Mardi Gras one of the most successful ever, possibly the most successful in Notre Dame's history. 
Approximately $20,000 was taken in as profit. Since all the bills haven't been paid yet this figure is tentative. This is a significant jump from last year's profit of $3700. 
Boy explains that no written records were kept on Mardi Gras over the 20 years it has been in existence. Only the cancelled checks remain to tell how profitable the carnivals were. 
This year's raffle did not make much money. "The raffle was always the money maker in the past," remarked Boy. "But this year we just about broke even." Apparently, because such a tight show was run, the carnival itself made most of the money. 
Mardi Gras has had a reputation for graft and dishonesty This year the same basic operation was run with a much higher overhead and 

Halls elect presidents 
by Tom Brennan Staff Reporter 

Three newly elected Hall Presidents attended the HPC Peeling Tuesday. Mark Nishan <A•ur.,ni), Joe Doaks <Sorin), and Dan Reagan <Zahr.l), are the new presidents. 
Dillon Hall will have its election 1on Fcbruary 25. Elections in Cavanaugh, Flanner, St. Joe's, and S1anford are slated for the first week in MarciL Grace, Howard, Pangbom, and Walsh will conduct Plections after returning from the J"id-ser.,ester break. Holy Cross, Badin, Kcenan, Morrissey, and St. Ed's will elect their hall presidents in Aprii. 
Breen Philips and Farley are as yer undecided as to the date of 1 heir eiections. Due to cir­l'Ur.,stances beyond their control, Lyons will not conduct elections !his year. 
substantial increase in profits. made, but he knows Keenan and Boy feels the tighter control placed Grace brought in the most money. on the people who work at the Boy explained that being Mardi carnival caused this. To improve Gras chairman required about 100 things in the future, Boy suggested hours a week of work plus the three that external administrative weeks of construction of the car­control could be placed on Mardi nival itself. "It was worth it," Gras. Also he thinks books on relates Boy. "It was probably my expenses should be kept t: deter greatest educational experience at people from pocketing the profits. Notre Dame." 
"Keenan and Grace were the top He also attributes the success of 
money makers in the carnival," the carnival to his staff. asserted Boy. He doesn't know "If I break 22 grand it will be the exactly how much each booth most money ever made," said Boy. 
•.......•..•...•••••••....•.•.........•..•••.•.••.••.••.•
. 
• END WINTER BLAHS WITH 
/pring Get Away 
The Most Fantastic Vacation Contest Ever! 
GRAND PRIZE: Five day, all-expense vacation in FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA! 10 EACH SECOND PRIZES: Three days, all expenses, in FT.• LAUDERDALE! : OVER $10 000 IN PRIZES! ' 
• To register, send stamped, self addressed envelope to: : Curtis Enterprises, Inc. : P.O. Box 54617, Dept. 116 : Atlanta, Georgia 30308 
Hurry -Contest ends March 8, 1974 
•·····••··••··••·•·•·•···•······················•·•·•····• 





CALIFORNIA 
For Spring Break! 
$212.27 
round trip fare 
Only 30 seats available to Los Angeles 
Leave O'Hare March 8, 6:00 p.m. 
Arrive L.A. March 8, 8:04 p.m. 
Return individually 
Busses available to O'Hare 
Must sign up by Feb. 26 
For more information call NO Travel lilreau. 

283-7080 

Student Union Invites You To 
ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
1h day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar 

* 
Baggage handling &transportation to &from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
HURRY! 
SOME SEATS STILL AVAILABLE! 
Questions • call Sween at 3669 

Playboy buys Agnew book 
By THOMAS HILLSTROM NEW YORK (UPI) -Spiro 
T. Agnew's literary agent announced Tuesday that Play­boy Press has bid sucessfully for the right to publish the former vice president's novel about a fictional vice president involved in a heated Soviet-U.S. confrontation. 
The agent, Scott Meredith, declined to reveal the advance the debt-ridden Agnew will receive for his manuscript, except to say that · it is "more than the $50,000 one columnist mentioned and less than the $250,000 another columnist men­tioned." 
Meredith, who has represent­ed such authors as Norman Mailer and the late Drew Pearson, said Playboy Press was one of five publishers who submitted "major bids" for the book, tentatively titled "A Very Special Relationship." 
Playboy Press is a subsidiary of magazine publisher Hugh Hefner's Playboy Enterprises. 
Random House reportedly 

John Denver to play in NCC]L prison relor:rn benefit concert 
The National Coordinating 
Committee for Justice Under Law 
will present a benefit concert 
Monday, March 4 featuring John 
Denver, The Nitty Gritty Dirt 
Band, Oliver and Steve Goodman. 
The purpose of the concert, 
sponsored by the Notre Dame 
Program in Non-Violence, is to 
raise money for the NCCJL 
"Alternative to Prison Program." 
"The program's main objective 

is to attack the root causes of most 
crimes--poverty and unem­
ployment," commented George 
Mische, executive director of 
NCCJL. 
A~cording to Mische, the alter­
native to incarceration is job 
tJ'aining, steady employment 
within the program, and com­
t.,unal living with trained coun­
selors instead of a prison term. ! "Basically the Alternative to 1Prison Program is a two-year investment in individuals who cotne from an environment that is sh1wt on education and training, but long on opportunity for getting 
National Coordinating Committee for ' Justice Under Law 
PRISON REFORJ\1 BENEFIT 
CONCERT 
JOHN DENVER 
.llld 

N ittv . Grittv. Dirt Band STFVE c;OODl\lA~ Bill ()LIVER s,vofford 
MONDAY MARCH 4th 8:00 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME Athletic & Convocation Center 
Ticket Prices: Loge Main Floor Platform $6.50 Lower Arena $5.50 Bleachers $3.50 
Tickets on sale at A. C. C. Box Office Mona a y, 


expressed an early interest in the book but later rejected it. The Ladies Home Journal has purchased North American serial rights to a portion of the manuscript for an undisclosed sum. 
Meredith said paperback and film rights to the book have not yet been sold, adding that "every major studio" had expressed an interest. 
"It's remarkably good," the agent said. "There are one or two or three little amateurish touches, but these can be worked out. Mr. Agnew shows remarkable ability as a nove­list." 
Edward Kuhn Jr., editorial director of the Playboy Press and Playboy Book Club, said he hoped the book could be published late this year or early 1975. 
Both Kuhn and Meredith said 
Agnew "is going to write every 
word of it himself," but will 
receive the same editorial 
assistance that any first novel­
ist does. 
Meredith said that Agnew 
involved with crime," said Mische. 
The NCCJL aims to eliminate the root causes of r.1Uch crime through expert technical training, a stable comr.1Unity life, and a steady source of income. A pilot project in Washington, D.C. is already underway and will be fully operable by the end of 1974. 
The Washington project will irain auto r.1echanics while simultaneously operating a large auto garage. 
Much of the money from the benefit concert. will go toward funding the initial costs of the Wshington project. 
Concert proceeds will also kick­off an investigation of Indiana's prison system. Possible NCCJL projects in one of Indiana's major cities will be discussed. 
A two day conference on the justice system in Indiana has been tentatively scheduled for March 5 and 6. Members of both political parties, representatives of various prisons and directors of citizen groups are expected to testify. 
had submitted 15 typewritten pages of the novel's first chapter and about a half-dozen pages each of a plot outline and character sketches. 
The principal character in the novel, Meredith said, is Porter Newton Canfield, a liberal politician appointed to the vice presidency in 1983 by a conservative president follow­ing the death of the originally elected vice president. 
After Russian troops move into Afghanistan, a terrorist group in Iran, believing the Soviets are actually after that nation's oil, attempts to use Canfield to touch off a confrontation between the Unit­ed States and the USSR forming the basic plot to th~ book. 
Meredith said the fictional vice president, Canfield, who is "rather unlike Mr. Agnew," becomes involved with a female mE;!mber of the cabinet in one of the book's romantic subplots. 
"There will be sex," the agent said, "but it will be handled with taste." 
Further information on the NCCJL's "Alternative to Prison Program" r.1ay be obtained in the Program in Non-Violence office in Room 338 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
ACAPULCO 
SUNNY 
85° 


SALE! 
Comfortable All V\td 
TROUSERS 
Regular $20 to $30 

$14.90 
~othing beats wool for good looks, comfort and f1t•.. and_ now you ~an enjoy these fine slacks at great savmgs. Cho1ce of solids c,r plaids, cuffs or no cuffs. Sizes 29 to 44. Stock up. Now. 


Wednesday, February 20, 1974 
the observer 
3 


Besf Buy in Tovvn••• 
{Special from 5 to 8 pm) 
* 
Tureen of Soup

* 
Fresh Salad *Pasta 

* 
French Fries

* 
Bread & Butter

* 
Chopped Sirloin or Rib Eye Steak 


$1.95 
1003 Notre Dame Ave. 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Dan· Barrett Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715

Lee Gentine John Kloos 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661
Business Manager Advertising Manager
BUSINESS: 283-7471 Wednesday, February 20, 1974 

lnPIRG The Need Remains 
Two years ago, INPIRG began its "existence" at Notre Dame. It generated enough support to get signatures on petitions from 75 per cent of the students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's to add a $3.00 charge to the tuition bill. The $3.00 was intended to cover the finances of INPIRG. 
The project died, however, on the cami.)US of Indiana University that same year when the Board. of Trustees there denied a motion to place the $3.00 charge on the IU bill. The support of IU was absolutely necessary for the success of INPIRG across the state. Without IU, it wouldn't cut the mustard. 
This year, INPIRG is attempting to generate concern again about con­sumerism in Indiana. And as it was then, Notre Dame is starting the wheels to reactivate the interest here. 
Indiana has no major agency to protect the consumer. The purpose of INPIRG, structure into which interested students can channel their concern about issues into some form of action. 
however,  goes  beyond  the  basics  of  
protective consu merism.  It serves a s a  
...  

Time after time, concern is neglected by those in power and what results is not action or change, but frustration with the system and with "working inside the system." Hopefully, with the backing of the universities of the state, with the financial solidarity of $3.00 coming from all college students in Indiana, INPIRG can serve to translate those frustrations into action. 
Public Interest Research Groups have proven themselves worthy in other states and Indiana should be no exception. 
Two years c~go, The Observer pushed hard for the passage of the $3.00 charge addition to the ND bill. Two years have changed a lot of things, but not the need for this form of consumer structure. And as we did then, The Observer strongly supports the new beginning of INPIRG here. 
Jerry Lutkus 

e~d young 
Cam~pus Exorcism 
In past years there were always some annual milestones you could count on to mark progress through the year, like the fall and spring r.'1.msoon seasons, final exam weeks with those "special" dining hall P1eals, the January blahs and then the escalation of room-pick negotiations as the warm weather returns with the robins. Within.the past two years, however, an intruder managed to claim squatter's rights somewhere between the blahs and the bloodshed, the effects of which r.,ay be far more damaging than any of the others. Ifwe were to title this new milestone for its content as potential drama, itmay very well become popular as "Park Your Carcass Elsewhere" or for the r.1ore ecclesiastically relevant, possible "Campus Exorcisms". And rhe encore this spring is a r.1ass exodus of nearly 900 more students ... pi,cked randomly, of course, in a Christianly democratic fashion to dissipate the responsibility. 
For rhose of the fortunate minority who own cars and have locked onto a good off-campus residence without mortgaging their souls, the rransition will essentially be a minor inconvenience and casual readjustment from the old living style. In some cases where the rare cor.1bination of people get together all anxious to make an off;campus living arrangement realy work, the learning experience can be like none possible on campus. But then that's the minority. Now what of rhose who.se eviction lacks the cushioning of such good fortune, where rhe r.1ove mtroduces more severe pressures than the combined weight of dining hall cuisine, the strange noises from your roommate's stereo and those three pink slips in you major. And if that didn't ring of conspiracy, now you have to find the time and energy to solve this whole new batch of problems ... without allowing anything else to slip. The only c:msolation-if that's the right word--is that you're not alone. Several hundred of your randomly picked friends will be fighting right alongside you ... probably for the same house. 
Of course there's no getting around the fact that the building of a new residence hall is a serious decision indeed. If it could double as a new faculty office building, engineering facilities or any of a dozen other car.1pus needs, there would be little reason not to go ahead. Real problems rarely get solved that nearly though. Suppose , however, rhat ND were to be hit by another bout from its age;old plague...fire ... say one of the older dorms. Where would all (God willing no one would be injured) the students live? Further, a new residence hall r.1ight well serve the combined goals of providing un­de,·graduate and graduate housing, consequently also helping to preserve the uniquely great atmosphere of residentiality high-lighted in rhe •·ecent Comr.1ittee on University Priorities study. 
There's another twist to the story because of the following irony: in past eras students always seemed to move off-campus in random waves leaving a surplus of campus accomodations to be filled only by enforcing varying degrees of compulsory campus residency. In more reeent years, though, with students, faculty and administration really working to Pake all aspects of campus life the best anywhere, the response has been a preference by students to remain on campus. This leads r.,e to believe that past seemingly random exoduses were neither random nor "rrendy" in any occult or supernatural fashion, but the result of a very real r.1alignment of some aspects of campus living with the preferences of many students. Those were eras of less dialogue, though, and less agreement on r.1utual goals of all aspects of t:ar.1pus iife . 
Regardless of intentions, morale cannot but suffer from the overhanging apprehension that you may randomly (that's the element of intrigue and surprise) be displaced to a room above a laundromat before Septer.1ber. House hunting may replace the traditional spring 1rips ro rhe Dunes when (if) the weather clears ... to have something lined up "just in case". 
Noire Dame has always been an exception to the rule in more ways rhan athletics--a trend setter rather than a trend follower-as was unfm·tunately exhibited by the Admission's Office dilemma which in:stigated this whole r.1ess two years ago. Maybe more potential freshr.1en could be placed in an "alternate" category instead of being oUitrightly accepted. Then the size of the freshman class could be regulated nearly to-the-person. With a better handle on that number a ioll of problems reduce to more solvable proportion. 
Contrary to some of the popular trends of "post-Watergate r.1orality" it r.1ight be useful to analyze this problem from both a financial and ethical point. of view. Mter stacking one side of the scale with those more easily defined and measured costs of con­struction, r.1aintenance and utility for a new residence hall, why not mnsider all the implication s of forced evictions--random or not-and admit just what a weighty probelem really exists. For the present, however, there is little evidence to indicate reciprocity toward several hundred Notre Dame (not University of South Bend) students who give of their time and effort and sweat and talents to make sense of the phrase "We're No.1." Hopefully I wasn't wrong before in saying ND has never been a place to follow trends, but rather to set them. 

IJarry trudeau 
the observer 

Night Editor: Albert D'Antonio 
Asst. Night Editor: Rick Blower 
Layout: Suzy Augustus, Pat Small 
Copy E~itor: Gregory Allen 
Day Editors: Jeanne Murphy, Terry Keeney Typists: Howard Halle, Barb Haug, Tom Modglin John Flanigan 
Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz . Pictures: Albert Sports: The Fin Night Controller: Joe Abell 
------~~--------~-------~-­


Nominate Sirica 
Editor: 
With the vote for Senior Class FeUow upcoming, I would ask tha-t seniors take a few r.1inutes to reflect on the election. Each succeeding year has mirrored a ~rowin~ lack of interest in the Senior FeHow, whether it be due to involver.1ent in cla.:;s work or just plain apathy. For four years we have seen nominations which range from the supposedly sacred (P.O.W.sl to the profane (Mr. Dirt), yet in the end seniors in the past have elected some out­standing individuals tohold this honor. Within this in r.1ind I would iike to nominate a person who I, and r.>any others consider an outstanding individual--Judge John Sirica. Whatever your political leanings r.1ay be, one cannot argue against this man's 

Wednesday, February 20, 1974 
the observer 
5 
finally begun to look at myself and I realize now that for too long Closeminded NO a time I have been putting up with a system with which I can hardly identify. One of the
Editor: reasons I decided to come to theThe refusal of the Arts and United States to !:itudy was toLetters department to allow escape the closed atmosphere tostudents to take as many hours which in a great extent exists in per semester as they wish is my country. But I have beenanother example of the closed­surprised and disappointed tomindedness that continues to find out that Notre Dameprevail in this supposedly liberal epitomizes all this backwardness institution. 
itself.
I think it is an infringePent What bewilders me the most is upon an individual's desire to how so ml!ny of us here canlearn to deter him from making continue to live with ourselves inthe most out of his education, light of the existing cir­especially when the concerns the cumstances.
academic aspect of it. I can find no reasonable basis whatsoever 
Jaime E. Aleman
for this, especially when it is us, 
Class of 1975
and not the administration, who are mostly interested in what we learn or don't learn during our 
Another lifer

years here. It is time to change existing policies which make To Byron Kin!! :Notre Dame everything but a learning institution not only in Who wrote the one page ariic1e.
the social but in the academic concluding that Abortion isfield as well. 
r-'urder.
My high esteem for the educational system of this country has greatly declined after three years here. I have 
Hkh Kla~,., 
:::::::::::!:::::::~:::::::::::~:::~:::::::::::~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:~ 
j. barry o'neil 
Co-ed No Go 
The recent furor which arose in response to a letter entitled "Cattle for the Cows" presents us with a valuable insight concerning the social atmosphere at Notre Dame. The original letter and the insuing responses portray many of the perverse attitudes which are per­petuated on this campus with regard to one's opposite sex. The at­titudes which students here have traditionally held regarding women have never been mature or healthy, but many people had expected that co-educational would stimulate a positive change in these at-. titudes. Apparently, this optimism was not well founded. 
I believe that the most appropriate single word which can be used to describe these existing attitudes is "competitive." From the first day one arrives as a freshman the intense competition begins. The males are coached by upperclassmen to hustle and get as many phone numbers as possible while the wiser females educate the unsuspecting freshman girls that the men at Notre Dame have but one intention-­sex. Through the guidance of these astute tutors the freshman quickly learn that a male-(emale relationship at Notre Dame is nothing more than a strategically plotted game. (It seems worthy of note that the most outspoken teachers of these valuable principles are usually those who have been most unsuccessful at this game.) The competitive spirit is nurtured in us early, thus preparing us for the warped situation which we are about to enter. 
The letters printed in last Friday's Observer are a prime example of the bitter competition to which I have referred. Apparently, the male respondents were personally offended by the original letter and felt the need for a counterattack. That ever-present demon, the male ego, could not bear to be affronted by a group of co-eds without responding in an equally vicious manner, the result being continued ill will bet­ween males and females. It is extremely disheartening to see that many students would rather intensify the competition between males and females rather than attempt to initiate a spirit of cooperation. Perhaps the recognizable similarity in the words co-education and co­operation is not quite accidental. 
The crux of the problem which exists here at Notre Dame was ex­pressed by the fact that the authors of many of these letters had requested that their names be withheld. This supports my hypothesis that the relationship between male and female at Notre Dame is surrounded by an air of mysticism. Rarely does one find another person who is willing to expose his-her thoughts and emotions without fear of becoming vulnerable to others. People frequently concern themselves with creating facades or engaging in word games, thus making an honest interchange of feelings an unattainable goal. As long as individuals refuse to express their feelings to one another in a frank and open rrianner, the present social atmosphere will prevail. Too often people create masks to protect themselves from vulnerability, but if these masks cannot be successfully stripped away, no possible progress can be made toward alleviating the per­verted social atmosphere which now exists. It is rather easy to criticize others in an anonymous letter, but the only worthwhile contributions are made when the mask of anonymity is removed. 
The letter entitled "Cattle for the Cows" was not an assault on the masculinity of this university's entire male populace. It was an ex­pression of frustration and plea for help, but because of the selfish attitudes which pervade much of this campus thosefemale!''llay never discover the relationships they are seeking. Males are seeking females while females are seeking males, but seldom do they find each other. 
It appears that co-education at Notre Dame is not working and for once the university is not to blame. As a senior, I have witnessed co­education from its beginnings, but I do not believe it has brought about any significant change at this university. Co-education means much more than the sudden appearance of females on campus, it must be accompanied by a change in the attitudes of those involved. For this reason I claim that co-education has not been effective at Notre Dame. 
I will be graduating in May after four years at duLac and it saddens 

intense dedica-tion to justice, and the search for ·truth. He is a man sworn to preserve the laws of -this land, and in the face of strong political pressure and adversi-ty, refused to be cowed or betray this duty. In Pany ways we owe John Sirica our admiration and thanks; r.>ore importantly, we have an opportunity to share our ~raduation with a r.1an who has r.>uch to share with us. 
Henry Brown Class of '74 

O.C. freeloaders 
Editor: 
I address this letter tothe students of the North Quad and the officials of the North Dining Hall. 
My gdpe is this: every day at lunch time, I'd estimate that ap­proximately 50-100 off-campus students sneak in the exits of the North Dining Hall, and then cut up the lines the wrong way. I'm tired of standing in line for 15-20 r-1inutes, then watching one (or two m· three) of these free-loaders cut in. I'm not sure what the cost of a lunch is, but I'm sure these daily visitors take. their toll, and I don't like paying their way. If the off-
campus students like our lunches so r.1Uch, meal cards are sold at the Ad. building. 
I also offer a solution: station a checker at each exit from 12-12:45 each day. The expense of the checkers cannot equal the expense of the free-loaders. The Dining HaU officials can only blame themselves if these rip-offs con­tinue. 
If other students feel the same 
way, speak up! No more free­
loaders! 
name withheld upon request 
me to think that I will not miss this university. Hopefully, those who 
"Don't try and talk your way out of it. We've are now freshmen and sophomores will witness a metamorphosis and maturation of student attitudes toward the opposite sex. Possibly they may feel at least a touch of remorse upon their graduation that I will 
hired professiC?nal buggers for this one!" be lacking at mine. 
Wednesday, February 20, 1974
the observer
6 
By DONALD FINLEY 
MIAMI BEACH (UPI) Labor leader George Meany said Tuesday that Michigan's congressional election Monday showed the "greatest service" President Nixon could perform for his country would be to resign. 
Meany said Democrat Rich­ard F. Vander Veen's victory amounted to "a referendum on Mr. Nixon's own status and credibility with the people of the country" since Vander Veen had campaigned strictly on the issue of the President's Water­gate troubles. 
"I think it's a definite 

Meany: Nixon should resign 
Dayan threatens resignation 
By ROBERT SLATER form a new coalition govern­would include members of the 
JERUSALEM (UPI) -De­ment. right wing opposition Likud fense Minister Moshe Dayan Dayan planned to meet with political bloc, a government threatened to resign from the Mrs. Meir Wednesday to which Mrs. Meir said Tuesday Israeli government Tuesday discuss his offer to resign, night would be incapable of raising the possibility of a split announced Tuesday by Tran­making decisions on ·Israel's in Prime Minister Golda Meir's sport Minister Shimon Peres, a peace negotiations with the ruling Labor party and a Dayan associate. Arabs. breakdown in her efforts to A national unity government 
CAC sponsors Marx Bros. fil1ns to be presented thisth!!'in~!!.end 
indication that the people don't want Watergate to go away, and a good many of them would like the President to go away," Meany told newsmen after a meeting of the AFL-CIO 
Executive Council. 

The Council Monday renewed its call for Nixon's impeach­ment. 
"The election yesterday em­phasized the fad that the people of the country do not 
trust  the  President,"  said  
Meany, pre sident of the  AFL­ 
CIO.  

"I think the greatest service the President could perform at this time for his country would be to spare us the experience of going through impeachment or 
by Mike Donovan AuditoriUm and contn~ue on 
Staff Reporter Satu~day and Sunday With two 
mo~Ies sho~n at 6:00 and repeated 
This weekend, the Notre Dame agam at 10.00 p.m. 

campus has the opportunity to C~coanuts, . and Monkeyexperience the Marx Brothers Busmess on Fnday, Horsefeathers from their firsts to their finests. and Duck Soup o_n Saturday, and Sponsored by the Cultural Arts Go West, and A Ntght at the OperaCommission, the Marx Brothers on Sunday are the f~atures. but the Film Festival will will begin Mar~ Bro~e.rs, with their lam-Friday night in the Engineering poonmg, hdmty, and madness are 
Automobile stolen from Notre Dame parking lot 

by Clyde Iverson Staff Reporter 
An automobile reported stolen fror.1 ND's C-3 parking lot was discovered stripped and der.wlished last Friday on Douglas Road near campus, the Security Dept. reported. 
The car, .a light blue Volkswagen, had been discovered r.1issing Thursday, Feb. 7 at 7:30 
p.r.1. It was found the next day 

completely demolished at the rear of the Campbell property near the north end of the campus. 
Security also reported a hit and run accident in the St. Joe's Hall parking lot Thursday. One car was 
damaged  and  the  driver of the  
offending  vehicle  has  not  been  
located.  

Saturday, an auto was reported vandalized around noon in the D-1 parking lot. According to security, the antenna, air filter, and emissions control system were damaged. 
Marx Brothers Film Festival 
February 22nd-24th at the Engineering Auditorium 
FRI: 
SAT: SUN: 

"The Cocoanuts"  
"Monkey Business"  at 6 and 10 pm  
"Horsefeathers'  
"Duck Soup"  at 6 and 10 pm  

"A Night at the Opera" "Go West" at 6 and 10 prr 
Two films will be presented at each showing at 6, and then again at 10 pm. Admission to each showing is $1.00 
possibly spare us three more years of uncertainty and of 
mistrust  on  the  part  of  the  
people of the  man  in  the White  
House  ...  and  to resign," Meany  
said.  

Meany said Vander Veen's victory over Republican Robert Vanderlaan in Vice President Gerald Ford's old district "makes Gerry Ford look more and more important" as a possible President if Nixon leaves office. 
"At least Ford would have credibility, he could gather people around him that could run this country, and I think Henry Kissinger would be just as good a secretary of state under Gerry Ford as president 
Most critics would agree that the festival features the six best works of the Marx Brothers. A Night at the Opera, probably their finest achievement, contains the classic "stateroom scene". No patron cards will be honored for this event. Tickets, at one dollar each, are good for two movies at either the 6:00 or the 10 :00 viewings. 
The Cultural Arts Commission is looking into the possibility of presenting a Woody Allen film festival next year. 

as he is under Richard-Nixon,"· Meany said. 
256-0111 
Cards 

AN EVENING WITH 
Rod
McKuen 
LIVE, IN PERSON, WITH ORCHESTRA 
IN CONCERT· FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 22 • 8 PM! 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM •SOUTH BEND, IND. RESERVED SEATS $4.50-5.50-6.50 
Now on sale at Morris Auditorium Box Office, or by mail. Send payment with self-addressed, stamped envelope to: McKuen, Morris Aud., 211 N. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
Special Notre Dame-St. Mary's Discount! $1.00 off each ticket. Parchase discounted tickets at Morris Auditorium Box Office! 

*NEW RELEASES *BIG STARS 
ALICE COOPER OVER NEIL YOUNG
2 0 0 0 

ANDY WILLIAMS 
TO CHOOSE FROM!! ARETHA FRANKLIN PERCY FAITH RAY CONIFF
ALL GUARANTEED!! 
LARGE CLASSICAL SELECTION 
NOW AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
----------~--~~----------~­
l 
Wednesday, February 20, 1974 the observer 7 
Memorial Library saves energy 
by AI Rutherford Staff Reporter 
Memorial Library is doing its part to conserve power due to the nation's energy crisis. David Donovan, assistant director of the library and a member of the Energy Conservation Committee, stated two ways in which energy is being conserved at the library: heat and electricity. 
"Conserving heat is not as critical as conserving electricity," stated Donovan. "The tem­perature is kept at 68 degrees but its hard to keep it a uniform temperature throughout the building. But we're still working to make the library more com­fortable." 
When the energy crisis first became a major concern, the floodlights on the mural were immedialtely turned off. The task as of late has been to reduce illumination without hampering the environment needed for reading. 

The basement lighting has been recently reduced. On the first and second floors, perimeter lighting has been turned off, decorative lighting has been reduced, and window lighting has been cut out. 
From 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., 1042 flourescent tubes and 209 in­candescent bulbs are shut off resulting in a savings of 68,480 watts. In the evening hours from 4 
p.m. to 12 a.m., reduced lighting produces a savings of 29,260 watts. 
Future plans include the removal of one -third of the flourescent tubes in the stack tower. The flourescent tubes will be removed from over book stacks and not over desks or study areas. 
fected yet, but as Donovan ex­
NOTICES

p1ained, "Only certain select areas are being done first. It is on a trial Will give 2 Yes tix tor ride to and error basis. We can eliminate Cincinatti tor concert weekend 
of March 4.
a lot of lighting without harming 
Call Tom 8986 or Jack 8998.
anyone.'' 
WINDJAMMER an 8 piece Donovan continued, "The ad­jazz rock ensemble available ior all musical occasions. Call
ministration encouraged everyone 
Don at 1409 tor into. 
to check and see how power could 
be saved. We have taken the SMC Summer School in London with travel in Ireland,
initiative to save as much as 
Scotland, Wales, England and
possible without any harmful ef­
Paris. May 20-June 20. Vollrhr fects." Vtrtiy sbsilsnlr. $795 plus "The Energy Conservation tuition. Professor Block 284­4948. Offic. 272-3726. Home.
Committee has approved the removal of the flourescent tubes," 
Good tickets are now available tat the student union ticket 
office tor the March 1 & 2 peertormances of 2 Gentlemen
Twenty states to get additional of Verona at Morris Civic. Ticket Office open from 1-5 
gasoline: 
by WILLIAM CLAYTON WASHINGTON (UPI)­
.. Energy director William E. Simon, moving to eliminate long lines at service stations within a matter of days, announced Tuesday that 20 of the hardest-hit states will get an "emergency injection" of gasoline. 
Emerging from a White House meeting with President Nixon, Simon told reporters the allocation would increase total gasoline in­ventories by 5 per cent in 10 of the states and by 2 per cent in 10 of the states and by 2 per cent in the others. 
Simon said he came up with the emergency allocation, to be carried out during the remaining days of this month, after the President last week "expressed deep concern about long lines and the onconvenience the American people are experiencing at gasoline stations for this very basic need." 
He said the allocation would 
reduce service stations lines 
"within a matter of days." 
The energy admmistrator described the action as "an emergency injection" to give relief to fuel-short areas while ad­justments are being made in the long-range nationwide allocation system. The short-term shift amounts to 2 million barrels of gasoline. 
Governors will have authority to allocate the extra fuel within the 20 states, Simon said. 
Getting a 5 per cent increase are 
Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, 
Nevada, New Hampshire, New 
Jersey, Oregon, Vermont, Virginia 
and West Virginia. The 2 per cent 
boost goes to Connecticut, Florida, 
Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, 
Massachusetts, Missouri, New 
York, Pennsylvania and Rhode 
Island. 
Simon's announcement came as 
the Senate prepared to vote on the 
long-stalled emergency energy bill 
newly revised by a House-Senate 
University of Notre Dame Wed. Feb. 

daily. Every Friday 4:45 the
Indiana included 
conference committee. 

House backers of the energy legislation, aimed at rolling back crude oil prices and giving the President broad powers to deal with the energy shortage, meantime failed to get clearance by its rules committee to vote on the compromise version. 
In another congressional development, Sen. Lowell B. Weicker, R-Conn., introduced a bill to make gasoline rationing mandatory within 30 days after approval by both houses. "Those who demagogue the chant of 'no rationining, fail to understand," said Weicker, "that people would far prefer rationing to behaving like animals at the gas pump." 
But John Sawhill, deputy director of the Federal Energy Office, told Congress' Joint Economic Committee that any decision on rationing should be delayed at least until April 15 to give current allocation p,lans a chance to work. 
"I think we can manage this 
situation without rationing," 
Sawhill said. 

Simon and Sawhill met for about 
45 minutes with Nixon to discuss 
the new measures. 

The meeting followed by about 
three hours a session Nixon held 
with two visiting Arab foreign 
ministers, but Simon said 
prospects for lifting of the Middle 
East oil boycott was not discussed 
in his meeting with Nixon. 

Saudi Arabian foreign minister 
Omar Sakkaf, speaking to 
reporters shortly after meeting 
with Nixon, said there would not be 
any quick ending of the Arab oil 
embargo, which he called a "long 
and complicated affair." He 
hinted that the Arabs were seeking 
concessions in the form of U.S. 
foreign aid before agreeing to 
resume oil sales to the United 
States. 

Simon also predicted further 
rollbacks in prices for propane. 
Already, he said, several com-
Concerts 
20 8:15 

Roberta Bowers mezzo-soprano 
Library Auditorium  admission  s1.00  
Fri.  Fe.b. 22  8:15  
Philidor  Trio  

Program:-"HANDEL AND HIS RIVALS" Library Auditorium admission 51.00 
-........ , f •• ,I. 

"Most of the flourescent tubes stated Donovan. "We welcome please let us know. Likewise, if our are 40 watts," explained Donovan. any and all suggestions. If methods are having bad effects, 
"Even when the bulb is removed, students see where we are wasting, still contact us." four watts still flows through the ,---------------------------------------------------, t5ansformers. But we're still talking of a savings of 36 wattts." 
Office areas have not been af­
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Greyhound leaves the Circle tor Chicago. Call Tom. 272­
panies have reduced prices for the 1807 tor information. fuel which, in addition to industrial uses, is widely used to heat rural Before you buy a diamond 
learn the facts. Ken 1859.
homes. 
"We're going to see a rollback right across the line by propane LOST & FOUND producers and if we don't see it we'll roll it back ourselves," he Lost at Armory-"I• length 
brown corduoroy, "zeroking"
said. 
men's coat--call Judy-6804.
Simon acknowledged that the gasoline allocation program had Lost blue Parka coat at Ar­inequities in it but pointed out that mory, please return glasses, 
keys and pills. 320 Fisher or
the program was less than one 
call 3017, 1478.
month old. "What we want to do is give it 
Lost: contacts in white contact 
case, near ACC. Reward 234­8314. 
time to work and we believe it will 
work," he said. 

PERSONALS 
113 Farley: I love you Greaser 
Observant-no more pretendies at lunch. This is tor you. How abot on soup and waldorf salad sometime? 
Fumbles 

VA"I•?TAWANIT IND wishes Silver train Mcintire a happy 21st. 
Hi! My name is Anne Green. It's my birthday. Have a happy birthday. 
We're so excited; we're gonna get creamed! The Noxema Gang 
Dear Close Observer, My head is stuck, grab my legs and yank. Golden Boy 
To W.B., Here's surprise number 2--Happy Valentine's Day--so concerning that ride to
Jordan Ford 

LeRoy... 609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
M.B.C. 
Wanted 

Need rride to Idaho, Utah, or vicinity--will share driving and expenses. call Howard at 1175. 
Ride needed to North Jersey or 
U. of Ill. Can leave anytime aft. 2 p.m. March 6. Call Jim 1409 
Need ride''" I-BO to Iowa City, 
Iowa Thurs. or Friday. Call 6416 niles-!!! ------------·­
Need ride to Peoria. 20th or 21st. Call Susie 6982. 
2 yuys want 2 girls to hsare house tor Sept. Call Mike at 1100. 
Need 3 hockey tix tor Sat. Jack 3486. 
Need ride to Terre Haute for Spring Break. Call Tom 3232 
Need ride to Milwaukee, Feb. 22nd. Call Mark 3623. 
Need 1 GA West. Va. ticket. Will pay well. 1621. 
Need ride to Cincinnatti, Friday. will pay expenses. Call 1027. 
Need riders to Baton Rouge, 
La.  tor  break.  Leaving  
Thursday  afternoon  or  early  
Friday.  Roundtrip  riders  
orefered.  Call  Rick  233-3945.  

Riders needed to Northwestern Univer. or Chicago--Friday, Feb. 22. Paul 7937 
Riders wanted to Montreal or Toronto. Leaving noon , March 7. Call Albert, 1682. 
FOR SALE 

Pre-CBS fender band master head exco Best otter. Over $125. 233-1876 
The Galaxy-a panasonic modular system. compatibleS­track included $135 or $150 with S-track. call SO at 1506 
Sony CF620 FM stereo-.. AM 
built  in  stereo  cassette  
recorder.  Speakers  included.  
Colin  7965  

Guild Bass Guitar with dual (fender--Guild} pick-up. Case included. 165 or best offer. call Jim 1409. 
'63 Plymouth; power, new tires, good condition. Best offer. 8132. 
LUND wood-foam core skis with step-in bindings. l' > yrs. old. $40. Call Paul 233-3945. 
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY 
**MEETr ~G* * WEDNESDAY, F~B. 20 7:30pm 
--For all students interested in collecting money in South Bend or on campus. 
AT 

KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
0

1 , o 0 I ~ I I I .Jo I ., 0 I I O 0 ° 

Wednesday, February 20, 1974
the observer 
•

ND second 1n polls 
North Carolina State is the Carolina, Kansas, Indiana, Virginia in a regionally-televised nation's new number-one Marquette and UCLA. The first TVS game. The Mounblineers, 
basketball squad in this weeks' three teams were each defeated whose coach, Sonny Moran, polls by the AP and UPI. Notre by Notre Dame on their home recently resigned, hold the only Dame's Fighting Irish, victors last court. victory over Pittsburgh, the night over Western Michigan and "Beating South Carolina in seventh-ranked team in AP's poll now 21-1 for the season, moved up Columbia has to be one of our best and eighth ·ranked '.n the UPI. to the second spot in both polls. wins of the season," Irish coach Tipoff is at 12 noon. 
· The advancements, of course, Digger Phelps said of the ND 72-68 Following that game, Notre were made possible by the in­win. "We're conditioned to playing Dame will host Ball State credible back-to-back wins by this type of game on the road since (Tuesday at 8 p.m.) and Villanova Oregon State and Oregon against we've been through some pretty <Saturday March 2 at 2 p.m.) for the defending national champions, tough wars away from home. the home finales before concluding UCLA. It was the first time since "But all of these experiences the season at Dayton on March 4. 1966 that the Bruins have fallen should help us in post-season twice-in-a-row, and ironically, both competition." Oregon squads figured in those Notre Dame has four games left UPI Ratingsdefeats. this season before post-season Polats 
1 
Of the 20 teams in the polls, the competition, however. This 
%. Notre Dame (10) 20-l... . ....318Irish have beaten five: South Saturday, the Irish host West 3. UCLA (4) 18-3 .......... : . ..286 
4. North Caronna 18-3 . . . . .. . . .. 1118 5. Vanderbilt :ID-1. .................173 6. Maryland 17-4 .................... 137 
7. 
M.arquette lt-3 . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 96 

8. 
Pittsburgh 21-1. . . . . .. ... "... . . . . . 88 


t. Southern Calif 18-3 . . .. . . .... • .. . . .. 82 
10. Indiana 16-3 . . . . . . . . ..• , . . . . . . . 55 
II. Alabama 18-3 . . . . ..... 39 
12. Providence 21·3.. . . . . . 38
Blarney Stone(d) 
13. 
Long Beach St. :ID-2.. . ... 3S 

14. 
Kansas 16-5 . . . . . . ... . . . . . . 14 


All-American Bill Walton and All-America candidate John
15. Kansas State 17·5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 
18. (Tie} South Car 17-4 ............. II Shumate, seen here in last month's 71-70 Irish win, currently represent 
16. (Tie) Crieghton 111-4 . . . . . . . . . II the third-and second-ranked squads in the AP and UPI polls.
18. Otah 17-5.......... • . . . 10 
lt. New Mexico 17-6.... 7
================================================================================================:A 'major' coach 
28. Louisville 1~5 . , 3 There are other spm-ts here at Notre Dame other than football, 
Women fencers wjn two 
basketball and hockey. Un­
fortunately, they must operate : 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's and ND-SMC's fencers gained a

under the stigma of the word AP Ratings 
fencing squad won twice while forfeit win.
"minor," purely a student word. 

dropping another Peel last Senior Judi Offerle finished the
I. N. Car. St. (30) .. 21).1 I.O:l-1
And just as unfortunately, these so­

2. Notre Dame (22) . . . . .. 21).1 1,018 weekend in Chicago. afternoon with four wins and twocalled "minor' sports have some of 3. UCLA (3)........... ... 18-3 842 
The wof.len fencers defeated defeats and is now 24-7 for the
the classiest, "major" persons on 4. Vanderbilt (I) .......... 21).1 698 
Chicago Circle, 5-4, clinching the season. Captain Cathy Schoen­
5. Maryland. . . . 17-4 635
duLac's campus. 

6. N. Carolina . . . .. 18-3 602 bout by the seventh match. dienst, 3-3 in Chicago, now stands
One of these grand persons is 7. Pittsburgh . . . . . 21·1 493 A)!ainst Wisconsin's women squad, 25-7 while Kathy Valdiserri (2-3) is
Don Faley. The Irish track coach, 8. Alabama . 18-3 38.3 
9. Marquette . . . 19-3 379 1he ND-SMC ladies battled even for now 23-5. Sue Krakora, who r.'ade
who is only in his second year as 

10. Indiana 11).3 296 lhe first eight bouts before her debut on Saturday, lost.
head coach at Notre Dame, II. Providence . 21·3 285 
dropping the final and the match, Bonifert and Rebholz stand 5-4 and
12. Southern Cal ll'r3 2RO
perhaps had a difficult time re­13. Loftg Beach St. .21).2 249 5-4. Purdue's squad did not show 9-8 respectively for the season.



adjusting to the Notre Dame from 

14. S. Carolina . 16-4 80 which he graduated in 1958. Being 15. Creighton . 19-4 62 
16. Kansas IG-5 41
the competitor he is, he wanted to 

~u~ ~5 ~ 
do well. And being a ND grad, he 18. Kansas St. . 17-5 35 wanted his team to excel for the 
19. Michigan . . . 16-4 21 
211. LouisviUe . . . 15-5 19
glory of his alma mater. Don Faley 
Not every coach has the same program, the same manner. Faley saw things he didn't iike that first year, but unfortunately for him, they Hockey stats wouldn't change as fast as he would have hoped. So, there were some people who became aroused at Faley's tough, boisterous attitude. H didn't help Patters, either, when Faley's tracksters failed to win last 
WCHA STANDINGSseason. 
W L T Pis GFGA

This season has been a different story, however. Faley lost none of his 
MirhiganTech(22·6-2)17 52 36 138 83 drive and determination, but for some reasons, there is a great deal Minnesota (16-10-4) .. 13 7 4 30 114 84 Denver (1~11-2) ...... 14 10 2 30 115 114
Pore easiness. What are those reasons? 
Mi!'htgan St. rtS.l~·l) 13 !l I '{I 1.15 l3.'i
Well, for one, Faley's squad now knows what makes him tick. Perhaps, Wi~cons1n (1.'>-l.i-SJ .. lP. 9 5 25 I!Jll 91 one Per.,ber hinted, the coach has mellowed. Anyway the Irish are 2-4, MiChigan (17-12·1) ... II 12 I 23 96 109 
Minn-Duluth (16-13-1) 10 13 I 21 95 114
not )!reat, but better than last year. 
C~lo. College (12·15·1) 9 14 I 19 104 119 
UTAH 
March 9-16 * 7 nights lodging $88-$107
* All lifts to six fantastic areas 
for info.: Doug--234-5980 Merf--6575 or Connie 6141 
NOTRE DAME SKI CLUB 
But Ihe big reason, perhaps, there is brightness in NO's track future is 1\iotre Dame (12-17)1) 9 14 I 19 lll 110 
North Dakota (9-211-ll 7 17 0 14 70 127 ************************************ 
this r.'an's organizational mind. One only had to look at the events 
WEEKEND RESl'LTS

•eading up to last weekend's Central Collegiate Conference meet in the * *
Minnesota 7-6. Notre Dame 2·3 

A.C.C. lo see this. M1ch1gan 5-7, Colorado C:ollege 3-4 M1ch1£an State 6-5. Minn.·Duluth 2-1
Orpanizing a 19-tearn, two-day event like the CCC meet is not an 
i CAREER i
Michigan Tech 4-10. North Dakota 1-0

overnight thing. Faley worked hard, with pride and excitement, trying to 
Dffiver :t-7, Northeastern 4-2 (firstr:'ake 1he Peel a success. Many other people would have waited until the game ot) .as! r.'or.,ent to do the organizing, but Don Faley is not ihat kind of person. WEEKEND SERIES Michigan at Notre uame. t:JU p.m.• 
i OPPORTUNITY i
11 was fortunate he is not. Two weekends ago, Faley took his squad to East Lansing to par­ACC Minnesota at Colorado College ticipate in lhe Mchigan State Relays. Mterwards, he went on a short Wisconsin at North Dakota * : If you are within two and one half years of ~ * 
Michigan Tech at Minn.·Duluth

recruiting junket to Canada. When he returned to South Bend on Monday 
* receiving your baccalaureate or graduate * 
night, he learned that his brother, who had been suffering from cancer, Irish Statistics 
. Gms G A Pts P-M : de1gree, today's Navy is offering a unique Two-~ 
had passed away on the West Coast. So just four days from the start of 
DeLorenzi, w..... :wl 19 24 43 S.l& 
* Year NROTC Program to those who qualify. * 
what should have been his happiest track moment, Faley's mind was 
Bumbacco, w ... -~ 13 25 38 6-15 occupied with the sorrows of a family death. Williams. w . . . 24 17 19 36 22·5! * Here are some of the benefits: * 
Nyrop. d-e ........ 27 9 25 34 l:t-38
Faley flew to the coast to attend his brother's funeral, although filled 
Israelson, w . . . 30 Zl 12 33 7-14 * * 
with sorrow, at least knowing thaHhe prepartions for the CCC were 99 per Cuny, d... . . .:wl 8 25 33 18-36 een1 cor.,pleted. Conroy, c ....30 8 24 32 7-14 
Walsh. c.. . .. 23 15 II 26 12-32 :** * * $ 100 per month for ** ~ 
He returned on Thursday evening with not much sleep, but still, the 
Pirus, w..... .28 8 16 24 11·22 481h annual r.'eeting went off without a hitch. In fact, many of the Scharer, c·d .30 6 17 23 8-16 
Hamilton, w. . .. 27 8 12 20 12-24 : living expenses. :
coaches wished that Notre Dame could host the event every year. In­
Clarke. d ........ 28 I 9 10 8-16
deed, Don Faley had done a credible job. Brownscllidle. d .. 30 I 7 8 8-16 This is where this "r.,inor" business comes in. Notre Dame students, Bourque, d ...20 I 4 5 it-10 
Tardani. c.. . . 30 I 3 4 7-14 ** ** 
friends. etc. simply don't show up in the great numbers one would expect 
Larson. d. . .. 25 0 4 4 9-18 *~ * * A, scholarship providing full *~ 
for cor., petition between world-class performers. H was unfortunate for Byers, w . .19 2 I 3 3·6 Olive, c . . . 5 2 I 3 1·2
1her·'· because they r.1issed one helluva meeting. ~ tuition, books and fees to highly :
Novitzki. w.. . . . 30 0 I I 2-4
Well, lof.lOJTow night, they'll have a second opportunity. The Irish will August me, w . . .. 13 0 1 I 0-0 be hosting Western Michigan, a track team which has not lost in its last 42 Karsnia. w .. . ....3 I 0 I fi.O ~ qualified candidates. ~ 
L Cuny. d . . 3 0 0 0 0-0
dual r.'eets. The Irish-Bronco meet starts at 6:30p.m. in the ACC's North 
Bossy,d.. I 0 0 0 0-0Dor.'e, and the admission is cheap, $1 for adults (children under 12 $.50). D Howe, w I 0 0 0 0-0 Bench . . . . . 3-6
It is even cheaper (FREE; forSt. Mary's and Notre Dame students who ** ** 
Notre Dame. . .30 141 241 382 174-375 Opponents. . .30 137 213 350 178·372
present 1heir ID at the door. *~ * * A commission and employment *~ Last seasnn, Notre Dame fell, 107-24, to Western Michigan. This year, POWER PLAY GOALS-ND 35 of 
123 (28.5 per cent). Opp. 32 of 121 (26.4
all hough Notre Dame teams have been always known as streakbreakers, : as an Ensign in the Navy or ~ 
per ctr I) 
1he Irish still are rated underdogs. But the meet will be exciting, if not SHORTHANDED GOALS -NO 4, because of the improved Irish squad, but because of Don Faley, a highly Opp. 4 ~ Second Lieutenant in the Marine : organized, "Pajor" Pan who will never quit. Gealteaders 
Faley doesn't need anymore plaudits, perhaps, but this one will come Gms GA Avg Savr.s ~ Corps following graduation. ~ 
Kronho1m . . 30 133' 4.33 911 
..· anyway. Monday, Jake Kline, NO's baseballcoach, celebrated his 79th Smith . . . . . .17 I 5.00 5 birthday. A spirited party with all the members of the various teams 
Notre Dame. . .. 30 134' 4.37 916 * * 
Opponents. . . . . 30 141 4.70 1004 ~ For further information, contact the NAVY ~ 
using the North Dome for winter practice was organized. H went without 
SCORE BY PERIODS 

: ROTC on campus: Phone 283-7274 or 283-6442. * 
a hitch, and it brought a cheerful tear to the venerable coach's eye. Notre Dame. . . 38 60 42 I 141 Opponents . . . . . 44 47 44 2 -1:17
Guess who organized it? 

***********************************~ 








