---~ ~--~----~­
OD The Inside 
Search 
... page 3 
Campus briefs 
..• page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 13 
Monday, September 16, 19J4 

Improvements vo-wed 

Off-campus problems cited 
By Ken Bradford 
Staff Reporter 

Two administrative officials vowed Friday to take steps to improve living conditions for Notre Dame students living in the northeast section of South Bend. 
Dean of Students John Macheca and Director of Off-Campus Housing Fr. Thomas Tallarida cited incidents of assault and battery, public in­toxication, vice law violations, rent gouging and poor housing as specific problems affecting student residents of the area. 
The area concerned contains the 
Notre Dame Apartments, several 
taverns and many private houses 
south of campus rented by students. 
"Our interests in the problem are 
multi -faceted," Macheca said. 
"Students are being injured and 
robbed, students are breaking laws 
and aiding others in breaking laws and 
students are being abusive of the 
neighborhood."

In addition, the dean of students 
stated, many students have been 
harassed by the residents of their 
neighborhoods. 

Macheca met with the South Bend 
deputy city attorney and the director 
of public safety on September 6 to 
discuss the situation. He announced 
that a meeting of all interested parties 
will be held within the next two weeks. 
"We're expecting input from faculty 
members living in the area as well as 
from the off-campus students involved 
with the problems," Macheca said. 
The goal of these meetings, ac­
cording to Macheca, is to determine 
the needs of the entire residential 
community. Several factors, such as 
neighborhood stability, landlord 
problems and possible substandard 
living conditions, will have to be 
carefully examined, he noted. 

Macheca observed that problems 
involving Notre Dame students are 
increasing as more students choose to 
socialize away from campus. "There 
is also the factor of the two new 
taverns, making seven bars in a very 
small area," the dean added. 

Tallarida listed incidents in which 
Notre Dame students were attacked 
and robbed in the area south of 
-:ampus. The off-campus housing director pointed out that most of the problems involving physical harm to student have not occurred in the areas surrounding taverns. Assaults and robberies have taken place primarily in the residential districts. 
"The houses in that area are by no means substandard, but if the police cannot solve the crime problems, we'll have to advise students to avoid living in the area," Tallarida stated. 
Tom Harbin, a student whose house on Miner Street was robbed of mer­chandise worth over $1,200, observed that the city police department has been less than effective in dealing with his case. Though a suspect was cap­tured shortly after the crime was reported, only a few small articles were recovered. 
Harbin's housemate, William Eble, has observed "gangs of kids practicing with switchblades in the streets." 
"It seems that their juvenile and detective bureaus are overworked and have neither the time nor the desire to work on area problems," Harbin stated. 
Another student living in the area was advised by a local policeman to "get a strong wooden door, leave your lights on, find a police dog, and get a gun." Chris McHenry, who received the advice after his picture window was shattered by rocks two weeks ago, has witness gang fights in the streets of his neighborhood. 

South Bend City Councilman Roger Parent stated that current problems in his district are no more severe than in the past. Parent :stated, "I've not received any more than the usual number of complaints so far." 
"I have received some complaints due to excessive noise on Friday and Saturday nights and litter in the streets," the councilman continued, "but this problem has always occurred where there are large amounts of pedestrian traffic," 
Parent also stated that the racial discord in the area "is not a problem peculiar to this district and is no worse than in earlier years." 
Tallarida said that "comparisons with the past are odious and the problems south of campus loom largein (his) mind." 
Tall~rida's student assistant, Tom Wilson, noted that many of the houses in the area are popular for their low price and relatively high quality. Wilson said that the district's high crime rate has an increased effect on students. 
"Studentskeeping odd hours have a higher vulnerability for their houses being burglarized," he observed. "They're excellent targets for all the crime in the area." 
Tallarida recommended that students living in the northeast area of South Bend have insurance on all their personal belongings and pointed .out 
that Student Government offers an 
insurance plan for thirty dollars a 
year. 

Additional relief for student problems in the area may come when construction of alternative housing, 
such as the Campus View apartments, is completed, Tallarida stated. 
"Crime control could be improved with increased cooperation from the Southt Bend Police Department," Tallarida also observed. Wilson and Student Body President Pat McLaughlin have .arranged to meet with City Police Chief Robert Urbari to discuss the situation. 
Speaking of reported substandard housing, Tallarida stated that student complaints are matched by area residents • complaints of student irresponsibility, building damage, loud partying and use of drugs. 
"Students views are generally narrow and if they want quality housing, they will have to maintain the houses in the condition in which theyreceive them," Tallarida noted. "Proprietors will have to raise the rent if students misuse their facilities or damage the houses." 
The off-campus housing director said that most landlords have cooperated! with his office in dealing with student requests. 
Wilson noted that the off-campus housing office is currently inspecting all houses rented to students. The expanded inspectioi\ forms, which will be accessible to prospective renters and landlords, list the rent, 'conditions andcontents of the house with a few general remarks about the neigh­borhood the house is in. 
"We're trying to establish a core of good houses and find enough available houses to avoid the scramble next 
spring," Wilson said. · 
The housing office will work to eradicate substandard housing for students, reduce rent gouging by landlords and provide a legal hand­book for student renters, he stated. 
''We aim to gfvestudents instruction and advice on their leases before they sign," Wilson noted. He added that each student should expect to pay about $55 monthly for good housing off­campus. 
Wilson and Tallarida predicted no shortage of off-campus housing in the near future. 
Student Body President outlines 
plan for off-campus food co-op 
research by himself, off-campus plan and help in finding a building,' campus,' McLaughlin pointed out.
by Pat Flynn 

Staff Reporter Commissioner Paul McEvily, he stated. The second alternative 
Steve Cardinaz, Dick Stroba and McLaughlin explained why an examined was direct distribution Student Body President Pat the other members of the Off­on-campus distribution center is by truck of ordered wholesale Campus Commission. the only feasible option among goods to off-campus student
McLaughlin outlined his plan for 

off-campus food co~ps last night. 'We looked at all the ideas and all those studied. houses. The problems with this The plan includes setting up the laws regulating non-profit food The first alternative looked at option are financial and legal, permanent on-campus distribution distribution,' said McLaughlin. was over-the-counter buying from explained McLaughlin. 'no private centers. Users of the co~p would 'The plan we came up with is the wholesale food distributors. The trucking company is interested in buy food directly from the pre­only feasible one out of the five difficulty with this plan, according undertaking the job. Student 
government, therefore, would
stocked shelves of the center, alternatives we analyzed.' to McLaughlin, is getting in­
eliminating the need for advance McLaughlin hopes that the terested in distributing to students. have to buy or rent the trucks as orders. administrative organizations to well as operate them, at a The plan is contained in a report which the report is being presented 'Wholesale companies are phenomenal cost,' he noted. 
generally prepared only for retail 'Furthermore, Indiana law
finalized this weekend by the Off­will commit themselves to helping 
student government implement business,' he explained. 'Fur­stipulates that vehicles used for
Campus Commission. The report 

the plan. thermore, students desiring to buy food transportation, can be used
will be presented this week to the 

from wholesale outfits in South for no other purposes,' McLaughlin 
Student Life Council, the Office of 'All of us in student government
feel that we have done our job,' Bend would have to buy in bulk and pointed out. This requirement
Student Affairs, and the Alumni 
Association for approval. said McLaughlin. 'The report we specify in advance exactly what would further increase the cost of McLaughlin emphasized that the are presenting is well-researched goods they want to purchase.' the project to student government. report was the result of three and thought out. All we need is Wholesale warehouses in South The third option analyzed was 
weeks of work and a summer of permission to go ahead with the Bend are also 'located in relatively bad neighborhoods far away from (continued_!)n page 7) 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
SLCto meet 
without 

Hesburgh 

University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will not ap­pear at the Student Life Council meeting today at 4 p.m. in Flanner Hall. 
Due to a mix-up in scheduling 
responsibilities, Hesburgh was not 
contacted to confirm his ap­
pearance. Dr. Robert Ackerman, 
director of staff development, said 
that Hesburgh had a previous 
commitment to be out of town 
today. 
Today's meeting will concern 
reports from the council's five. 
standing committees. Hesburgh is 
expected to appear at a future SLC 
meeting. 
iiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
'the observ•r Monday, September 16, 1974 
warld 
briefs 
BHETTON WOODS, N.H. UPI-The Vermont Bar Association voted Saturday to support the legalization of marijuana and to criticize President Ford for pardoning former President Richard M. Nixon. 
BEHIUT UPI-Israeli warplanes twice attacked Arab guerrilla bases in southern Lebanon Sunday, the first raids in the area for more than a month. But at the same time, Prime Minister Yitzhak Habin said understanding had been reached with the United States on how to achieve an Arab-Israeli peace. 
TYLER Tex. UPI-Sheriff's deputies from three counties aided by Dep~rtment of Public Safety officers ana Texas Rangers searched the thick woods of East Texas Sunday for a 29-year-old construction worker wanted in the murders of three women and a young boy. 
ADDIS ABABA UPI-Ethiopia's new military rulers promised Sunday they will not establish a. dictato~ship to replace the government of ousted Emperor Hade Selassie, but: they left open the question of when civilian rule would be restored. 
THE HAGUE, Holland UPI-Japanese guerrillas released two of their 11 hostages from the French embassy early Monday, and France flew a jetliner to Amsterdam to stand by in case it was ordered to fly the terriorists to freedom. 
NEW YORK UPI-New evidence obtained by the Watergate special prosecutor's office indicates former president Richard M. Nixon knew m aavance about the campaign mtelligence unit that staged the Watergate burglary, Newsweek magazine reported Sunday. 
an campus taday 
6:00, 8:30, 11 :OOp.m., film, romeo and juliet, cac, $.25, engineeringau d. 
Alcohol rule defined 
by Kevin Dickerson Staff Reporter 
"If a student is transporting liquor openly (ie; not brown bagging> or drinking openly on campus, we <Rectors, RA's and Administrators) are all expected to confront the student." This was the directive released to rectors, resident assistants and Security by the Office of Student Mfairs on September 5. Br. Just, VPaczesny, Vice-President for Student Affairs, said the reason for the directive was to more clearly define the enforcement policy of the University ruling concerning alcohol made by Dean Macheca at the beginning of the 1974 school year. 
Rectors, RA 's and Security were advised to "simply ask for the student's name and identification number and turn the information into theDean of Students office. 
Paczesny commented that "en­forcers are not to confiscate alcohol, but merely to report the incident." He further stated that identification cards will not be taken, as has been the action in some cases in the past, due to the fact that it prevented students from being able to eat in the dining halls at meal time. 
Arthur Pears, Director of Security, stated the Security Department is continuing to check cars entering campus containing alcohol that is "visibly recognizable." He indicated that there have been more non-students stopped at the gates for violation of this rule. 
The Oltlerver 11 publllhecl delly during the college Hmeeter except vacations by the atUCMntl of ltle University of Notre Dame end St. Milry's College. Sublcrlptlonl may be purchased for U per semester !S14 per year) from The Ollurver Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second cta11 postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

WEI.CXXVJE BACl{ S1UDENTS 





Hans Haus 
2803 South Michigan Street-Phone 291-5522 
German FoQd Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
• So11th Bend's Finest Banquet Rooms 
The Alpine 8t Bavarian Rooms Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.-Closed Sundays and Holidays 

Lawyers support trials 
professor of constitutional law WASHINGTON <UPil -Two at the University of Chicago,nationally prominent lawyers agreed there is no legal reason 
agreed Sunday Richard Nixon's why the six Watergate defend­pardon does not eliminate ants should avoid trial even if 
chances for a fair trial for the their co-conspirator is free of remaining six Watergate cove­legal consequences. rup defendants. Walsh said "the problem of Lawrence E. Walsh, presi­dealing with publicity is a 
dent-elect of the American Bar problem which trial judgesAssociation, called on President frequently have. The trial judge
Ford to issue a public "white and the lawyers will have to paper" detailing how he came deal with this as best they 
can. 
to his pardoning decision. It is very seldom -almost Walsh and Philip B. Kurland, never -that an event means a 
Julian Bond to speak 
by Maureen Flynn for the gubernatorial nomination.

Staff Reporter , Bond has directed his energies towards continuing and strengthening the war on poverty
Julian Bond, a candidate for the advancing education for blacks Democratic presidential and urging a new foreign policy for 
nomination in 1976, will lecture in black Africa. the Memorial Library Auditorium In disclosing hiscandidacyBondat 8 p.m. Wednes day, September announced plans to arrive at the 
25. national convention in 1976 with The 34year-old legisl~tor from. enough delegates "to at least in­
Georgia played a maJor role m fluence the nomination." 
mustering the support of black Bond's appearance is sponsoredvoters for George Busbee, by the Student Academic Cort:~­enabling Busbee to over­mission and is open to the pubhc
whelmingly defeat Lester Maddox 
Ford may explain pardon 
WASHINGTON (UP!) ·President Ford has indicated he may hold a news conference today to explain his rea~ons fo~ par­doning former President Nixon. 
Ford's grant of a 'full free and absolute pardon' to Nixon a week ago aroused a public furor and cut 
heavily into received when  the he  support assumed  he the  
presidency.  

The controversial pardon has raised many questions, par­ticularly as to the timing of the action. Ford had previously said it would be 'untimely and unwise' to pardon Nixon before his case went through the legal process. 
Ford has indicated he had private reasons for granting the pardon which he may now feel compelled to disclose to quiet the outcry. 
N.D. BOXING CLUB 
ANNOJf\CES 
NOVICE BOXING PRAO"ICE 
NOJDAY THRU FRIDAY 
3:30 -6:00 pm A C. C. 
case cannot be tried.'' 

Kurland added that thert! was no requirement that everyone be treated alike under law in the Constitution and that presidents and former presi­dents are unique and should be treated differently.
"There is no legal conse­quence flowing from the fact that one alleged co-conspirator is relieved from responsibility" Kurland added, and courts have done this in routine trials. 
Both men were interviewed on ABC-TV's "Issues and Answers." 
Walsh said Ford should issue a white paper, especially if the pardon was promised or im­plied when Nixon left office. He said that if the pardon was promised in order to ease Nixon out of office for the good of the country it will have served "a very high national interest." 
Kurland said Nixon might still be able to refuse to testify at the coverup trial on grounds of self-incrimination if he is threatened with criminal charges at the state level. 
But the law professor also renewed his argument that the pardon is invalid because it was granted before charges were filed or a conviction. He again called on special Water­gate prosecutor Leon Jaworski to file charges against Nixon and permit the legality of the pardon to be challenged in court. 
l!t::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::f!!: 
~~~~ *TONYS* ·~~~~ 
~~~~ SHOE SHOP~~~~ 






Ico:::T:::L::~:J 

;:;: TOP BRAND FOOTWEAR ;~;~ KNAPP SHOES LEATHER AND 
ZIPPER REPAIR 

ACCESSORIES 
QUICK SERVICE REASONABLE OPEN 8-6 MON-FRI 9-4 SAT PH 283-1144 

The Cultural Arts Commission 
presents 


ROMEO and JULIET 
directed by Franco Zeffirell: 
IV'onday, September 16 
at 6:00, 8:30 and 11 :00 pm in the Engineering Auditorium 

Admission only 25~ 
------· 
~--­

Monday, September 16, 1974 the observer 
3 




Search begins for flood victims 
By MYRAM BORDERS 
NELSON LANDING, Nev. <UPI) -Gov. Mike O'Callag­han flew to this flood­devastated shore resort Sunday to offer state rescue assistance in the search for up to 15 persons believed missing in a flash flood that struck Satur­day. 
The governor immediately met with National Park Service and state government agency leaders and then talked with workers and survivors. 
The exact death toll was still not known Sunday night. At least one body was recovered and estimates of the missingranged from eight to 15 persons. 
Divers searching for bodies were hampered by tons of mud. A huge crane was rushed to the scene to scoop up debris and rescuers consdered asking au­thorites to lower the water level in the lake. 
The National Park Service had warned of flash flood dangers last year and had sought to restrict Nelson Landing to daytime use only. However, local protest groups persuaded political leaders to 
Sunday conducted tedious per­
overturn  the  Park  Service  
proposal.  
Police  and  park  rangers  

son-by-person interviews of survivors to determine who they were talking with or sitting near when the killer flood struck Saturday night. 

"It would be difficult and maybe impossible for me to declare this federal recreation region a disaster area, but I personally consider it a disaster area," O'Callaghan said. 
"I'm mainly concerned with human life right now, not mechanical things," the gover­nor said. He said one of the missing, John Dailey, was a long-time personal friend. 
O'Callaghan paced along the shoreline talking with work crews where just 18 hours earlier a sudden storm sent the shoreline settlement into Lake Mohave. 
Temperatures reached the 100-degree mark under a clear desert sky and only one white cloud was visible over nearby mountains where the flood was spawned. 
The torrential waters washed buildings, trailers, boat docks, cars and people into the lake as it churned down funnel-shaped El Dorado Canyon. 
Divers searching for bodies found but mud and debris filling the lake near the shoreline made search impossi­ble. A 100-foot crane with a "clamshell" scoop was ordered to clean the debris from the surface. 
Meanwhile, a Las Vegas police helicopter patrolled the lake that widens the Colorado River behind Davis Dam for bodies of persons who may have been washed downstream. 
Police and rescue units 
discussed the possibility of asking the Bureau of Reclama­tion to lower the water level of Lake Mohave to aid in search operations. 
Debris spread for more than 
300 yards into the lake, 
authorities said, and only 
rowboats and paddleboats could 
be used. 
Otto Ravenholt, the Clark 
County Coroner, said his office 
would continue to search for 
bodies for 10 days. 
The body recovered was that 
of a restaurant waitress, 
Marian Carter, formerly of 
Santa Ana, Calif. 
In addition to Dailey, others 
known missing were tentatively 
identified only as Herbert 
Grugel, Nadine Peterson and 
Ted Duzy. 
About 50 persons were 
stranded for awhile at Aztec 
Cove, described as "the third 
wash down the river from 
here," by road washouts. 
The flash flood hit quickly, 
and crushed a restaurant­
storebar complex and pushed 
the debris into the lake. A boat 
landing and boat maintenance 
facility, an estimated 50 to 75 
autos and boat trailers and at 
least 10 cabins and five mobile 
homes were shoved into the 
water along with tons of mud. 
Jim Wiggins, an operator of 
the trailer park, said he -saw a 
wave of water push over the 
mountain and fall on the J>uildings."They didn't know what hit them," he said. "When the 
Federal Power Commission accused of exploitation
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Rep. rate applications resulted in 40 John E. Moss, D-Calif., says million customers paying high-the Federal Power Commission er prices for natural gas "than has helped bilk natural gas were just and reasonable," in users of millions of dollars, and one case amounting to double he has asked Congress and the the normal rate. Justice Department to inves-The FPC, in an appendix to tigate. the report, denied it acted 
In a weekend statement, improperly and said the emer-Moss said an official investiga-gency rate increases were tion of the FPC conducted at justified.his request "makes a very But the GAO responded: "To strong case for concluding that accept FPC's interpretation of cumulative financial exploita-its authority would, in GAO's tion of consumers by an view, make a sham of the industry was aided and abetted regulatory process and render by the very federal agency litigation by dissenting partiescharged with protecting the futile." public against monopoly and Moss said he is asking profiteering." congressional committees con-
The Government Accounting cerned with both regulatoryOffice, which audits govern-agencies and natural gas to ment expenditures, gave Moss investigate further and the this weekend a 115-page report 
The GAO described the FPC's interpretation and use of its CHARLESTON, W. Va. <UPI) rate-setting authority as "a -A violent parent revolt over sham of the regulatory pro-supposedly "obscene" and cess." "filty" textbooks used in the 
Contents of the report, which schools of this coal-mining goes to all members of region appeared over Sunday. Congress Monday, were made Calm prevailed for a second available to UPI. day. 
The watchdog agency A spokesman for the belea­charged the FPC with improper guered Kanawha County She-enforcement and overextension riff's Department said of emergency rate hikes, everything was peaceful after resulting in higher gas prices 13 days of what one official that are not recoverable. It also called "mob rule." said FPC officials violated Pickets who touched off a conflict of interest standards widespread industrial strike, that the commission did little to shootings and beatings had left enforce. the streets Sunday. 
"This report.. .is one of the The Rev. Marvin Horan, one most powerful indictments of a of several clergymen who led federal regulatory agency with-the two-week protest gave in memory," Moss said. "In the assurances that it was over, but levels of activity covered, there school officials and others kept clearly appears to have been a wait-and-see stance. obvious failure by the FPC to "This thing is still on act in the public interest." tetherhooks," said Schools Supt. 
FPC extensions of emergency Kenneth Underwood, pondering 60-day rate hikes "raised whether to reopen schools for serious questions as to the nearly 45,000 pupils in the propriety of FPC's actions," county. ' the GAO report said. A CBS-TV correspondent and 
It said faulty record-keeping camera crew were roughed upand failure to act on producers' at a rally of more than 400 Justice Department to look into possible violations of the law. Moss said the commission should have its power to raise gas rates taken away. 
The GAO report also said investigators found "wide­spread noncompliance by FPC officials with the agency's standard of conduct regulations intended to prevent conflicts of interest. 
"Most FPC officials, includ­ing officials responsible for obtaining and reviewing the reports, have failed to file financial discloure reports for several years." 
Of 125 FPC officials required to disclose their financial holding, only 7 filed properly,the report said. 
of its investigation of the FPC, a federal agency which sets 

Violent protest ends 
natural gas rates. 

persons Saturday night in a Charleston suburb. Reporter Jed Duval lost a camera and sports coat in a struggle with several persons, and camera­man benjamin Adams required treatment for cuts and bruises after the incident. Another member of the crew had a bloody nose, a Sheriff's office spokesman said. 
There were other reports of newsmen being pushed or threatened during the dispute. 
The textbooks have been removed from classroom shelves for a 30-day review by a special citizens committee. 
Protesters complained the books were unfit for their children. Some of the many books involved covered topics such as prostitution, marijuana and bomb-making. 
Phrases like "mainly a whore, ""Probably you were a bastard," and "tearing blouses off women" in the classroom reading material were among hundreds of sore spots with parents so angry they closed down coal mines as far as 60 miles away. • 
. 

water hit the restaurant it "The water was right behind came over the top of the us. We missed it by seconds. It mountains. It engulfed the just wasn't our time," said Ron restaurant and then it hit the Roberts, 21, a welder who was dock and big mobile homes. here from Las Vegas for the 
"The docks cracked up and weekend. people were in the boats. The "We could hear it " he said. boats were sinking," he said. "The ground rumbled." 

An overflow crowd Friday and Saturday nights welcomed the new Notre Dame coffehouse, 'The Nazz.' Located in the La Fortune Student Center's Rathskellar, 'The Nazz ' offers a place for informal socializing and a showcase for campus talent. The coffehouse is sponsored by Student Government. 
<Photo by Paul Joyce) 
w \.I ) 
SPECIAL RATE 


~ ~~­

ALL FOUR PLAYS 
$7.50 
Student-Faculty
SMC 
ND-8MC Staff 
$5.50

THEATRE MAIL ORDERS 
1974-75 

NOWOPEN
Our Ninth Season 


LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGEL 
Ketti Frings' Pulitzer Prize play based on the novel by
Thomas Wolfe. 

Oct. 4, 5, 10, 11, 12 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 

A premiere production of this comedy-intrigue In the absurd manner bY ND graduate Christopher Ceraso. 
Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00P.M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

Feb. 21, 22, 27, 28, Mar. 1 at 8:'00 P..M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
~,,!~!~
Cervantes' Don Quixote. 

Apr. 25, 26, May 1, 2, 3 at 8:00 P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
Name .............................................................. : ................. . Address ...................................... Phone ............................. . City ........................................... State .............. Zip .......... . Please send ........... subscriptions at (circle price) $7.50 I $5.50 Totals ............................................ Indicate date choice for each play: 1st Fri .............. _.................. 1st Sat. .. ............................. . Thurf... ( ................. 2nd Fri.............. 2nd Sat.................. . 

.. 

' •••••••" ... ~ ., '{ ..... <f ~ -<r ., " • " •~<# .J .I , J ' ) .t ..1-.! , 11 1 :.. ;J ~ 2 ., ., ft, _,, .. ' .. ~ ,, ......,.,.~
'; ........ ~~-... ••f .. t "+ t.) $9~·1#•. o.·~~~ ...... ,..· 1~·-"!r "or• 1·f'. ". 1 .. ·=~ t" f ............... :,..""".... ~·-· '···f '·· ,, •. • ,., 

The Calendar 
Dear Editor, 

In regard to the interview with 
Fr. Burtchaell on the new calen­
dar, we would like to respond by 
expressin~ some of our concerns 
and eliciting the united support of 
the Student Body, in seeking the' 
clarification of some of the points 
the Provost presented. 

According to Fr. Burtchaell, 
'The issue is really not so much 
whether the calendar is 
satisfactory, but whether anybody 
can think of a better one without 
sacrificing one of the imperatives 
that goes into calendar-making.' 
There is a need to clarify what 
these 'calendar-making im­
peratives' are. Once these im­
peratives are made unam­
biguously clear, we will act to 
obtain the preferences of the entire 
student body, who will then make a 
choice in light of the 'educational 
requirements.' We will then 
submit this information to the 
Academic Council in time to 
signifigantly affect the approval of 
next year's calendar. 

The Provost says, 'Student input 
is not what student's say. It's what 
students do.' Students must now 
unite and make their voice known 
to the University. Student 
Government will be working, but 
we can not do it alone. Support 
from the whold Student Body is the 
only thing that will give meaning to 
our words and force to our actions. 
Sincerely, 

The Hall Presidents Council 
For The 


Record ... 
Dear Editor: 

It's always risky to ask a 
rhetorical question, especially 
when giving the discussion a new 
<ind unexpected turn. So I'm not 
complaining that my remarks to 
t.he Faculty Senate were 
1nisquoted in the Friday Observer, 
but only that the net result of the 
quotes was to turn my meaning 
completely around. In regard to 
the COUP report's recom­
mendation that the University give 
preference to articulate Catholics 
in hiring and promoting faculty 
m~>nbers, I maintained that the 


DOONESBURY 

University now provides no structure through which articulate Catholics can dialog with, e.g., the Theology Dept., or student groups dealing with concrete social issues. 
Under present conditions, therefore, it seems pointless to give preference to articulate Catholics whose articulateness will go to waste. But I wasnn't favoring the status quo. The dialog between religion and the various academic disciplines is too important to be left to chance. The paradoxical stand I was taking was this: IF THE University would provide a strudcture through which ar­ticulate Catholics in the various academic disciplines could bring their special insights to the community, then the University wouldn't have to give them preference in order to have enough of them here. More of them would apply here, because this would be the place where they could do their thing, both academically and religiously. 
Sincerely yours, 
Julian Pleasants Assoc. Prof. of Microbiology 
Almighty 

University 

Dear Editor: 
It is becoming more and more apparent these days that our fair university is beginning to go beyond itself. For those who at­tend the University of Notre Dame (especially those who dwell within its immediate community) there is a decreasing fear of God and an increasing fear of university disciplinary action. Any sins committed on campus these days are being paid for, right here on earth, right now. Chances are that when one such sinner passes away, God will nod his head and say; 'you've paid your dues already, come with me.' 
It seems as though the president of the University and his right hand man <who must be the reincarnation of one Eliot Ness) have taken each student's life into their own hands and stand ready to expel any Adam and Eve at any instant from what has been mistaken to be a modern day Garden of Paradise. Once again the punishment is for the tasting of the garden's forbidden fruits )i.e.sex). 
I must make it clear that I am not against rules and regulations 
S(Yofe!}(/N6 70 /JO turrH 1JI£ Nell/ H.!. /II. R.tll!N6S Rt(J(IIRJNG ATHL-ETIC$ fOR IVOMEN. THE COL-­
l-t6e /IIAN75 OUR 
per se. What I am against are rules, regulations, and a morality which belongs to the Victorian Era. This is 1974 and there are at least ten years remaining before we as students can be shaped and molded according to ad­ministrative desires. 
I am sure that we all came here to educate ourselves for whatever purpose we had in mind. What we want to learn, we want to learn on our own (excluding those who still need mommies and daddies to tell them when they can or cannot go to the bathroom, etc.). 
I was reared well enough to have respect for others and never would I do anything that would in­tentionally hurt some one else. Yet, believe it or not, there are circumstances when two con­senting peop,e· can experience the basic human activity known as sex without causing the decline of an empire. I think that the university should recognize this fact. 
I for one do not neea ngm restrictions placed on my life and any carnal activities I may wish to pursue. Sex is not all there is to life, true, yet it is a very definite part of living. I feel that it is very wrong that those who have vowed celibacy must make it a guideline for those who have done nothing of the kind. It almost seems as if they are saying, 'if we can't do it, neigher can you!' 
Then, there is always the argument about doing something for the common good of the community. I have made my rounds, and in visiting with scores of campus dwellers, I have found that there is almost as much fear here as there was with 18 year olds and the Vietnam war. I ask, is this for the common good??? 
There seems to~ be some sort of an injustice beingddone here and I think it is time that this injustice is stopped. Lewis Hall, Dillon Hall, the six this summer; soon there may be none left except the faculty and the celibates. 
The purpose: of this Jetter, then, is to ask the university to kindly reconsider some of its archaic positions. We must bend with the times. There will still be room for a Christian atmosphere. As times have passed the Catholic Church has changed, and so can the university. In the final analysis, each individual must lead his-her own life and whatever has been done wrong should be left in the hands of the Almighty. And I am sorry to say that the University of Notre Dame is not the Almighty. 
Gary A Gibson '75 

Sex and the SLC 
It would really be a shame if the 

sexuality thing got the Student Life 
Council in a box from which it is 
unable to escape. There is a 
distinct possibility that this could 
happen. 
Observer editor, Tom Drape, is 

absolutely correct when he points 
out the need to carefully 
distinguish between a rule and a 
statement. What you have in the 
recently issued Student Manual is 
a general statement of the con­
temporary Christian teaching on 
pre-marital sexuality. The 
statement is not without its 
limitations; but, all in all, it is not a 
bad effort to articulate the biblical 
understanding which sees two in 
one flesh as the sign of the total 
giving of one to another in 
marriage, with the attendant 
feature that indicates that the 
union of bodies can be a lie and 
false sign unless it bespeaks a total 
union of two hearts. 
All well and good. But the statement appears in a section entitled "University Rules and Regulations." Once that happens, the temptation can be great to try somehow to turn a general statement into a rule, with ac­companying detailed sanctions and explicit penalities. The recently vetoed rule revision is <at least should be) ample evidence of the trouble you get into when you attempt that. Once you start, where do you stop? Either you set one penalty to cover every case, which fails to allow for the significant difference, for example, between sexual relations with a prostitute and sexual relations between an engaged couple; or you try the impossible task of setting various penalties for every imaginable situation. 
What happens, on the other hand, if you let the statement remain a statement of principle, without detailed penalties? What you do is involve the elemnt of trust. Trust is called for from all the members of the community. The highest administrators have to trust that no appropriate pastoral response will be made to student behavior problems by those who are best able, through expertise and familiarity with the persons involved and the circumstances. Thus the jurisdiction will lie, first of all, with the hall staffs. These men and women operate under the direction of student affairs (most specifically, in human sexuality questions, the offices of campusministry and campus discipline); but it becomes extrememly im­portant to place more confidence in hall staffs. They will need to be trusted that they can most ef­fectively and fairly exercise discernment as to the most ap­propriate action for each case involving their students. 
The burden of trusting also falls upon the students. They will be 
by Garry Trudeau 
fr. biII toohey 

asked to trust that their hall staff will operate from a principle of pastoral care, that whatever response is made to issues that arise will be as fair and con constructive as is possible under the circumstances. 
Bestowing this kind of trust will be hard for both sides. Ad­ministrators may find it distasteful to leave things vague; it appears to leave the door open to what some may feel are decisions that are too lenient, too favorable to students. Students, on the other hand, will be inclined to feel just the opposite. Their fear is that, without clearly spelled-out limitations stated in a rule book, they may be subject to overly-harsh treatment. 
These students will undoubtedly find it easier to trust as long as the principal jurisdiction remains with their hall staffs < people who are closest to them and who know and unrlerstand them best); but it still will be a tough thing to deal with. And both sides may be troubled by the possibility that different staffs will deal with similar questions in an unequal fashion. There will be considerable temptation to want a tight control that guarantees that everybody does exactly the same. Unfortunately, this lock-step mentality fails to respect the advisability of allowing halls to possess an individual spirit, always, of course, within a framework of basic principles of competent and equitable guidance of students. 
In an atmosphere of greater trust, responsibility clearly falls upon the Student Affairs office to supervise and evaluate hall staff competence; and when staff personnel indicate through action that they have, in one way or another, violated the trust placed in them, steps to remedy the situation, including the possibility of replacement, will obviously have to be taken. 
It may seem futile to trust; to place so much of an investment in other persons, be they 5tudents or administrators. It may appear more appealing to revert to an older model: highly detailed and closed-ended disciplinary penalties, and severe limitation of discretionary powers of hall staffs. 
A more personality approach, including the declaration of principle and the consequent commitment to trusting one another, may seem terribly risky and even naive. 
Which means, of course, that Tom Drape was totally out of touch with the reality of this place and the fibre of its people, when he wrote, "We are now at a different time and in a new era." 
I , FOR ONE, HOPE HE WAS RIGHT. We probably shall soon find out. 

the observer 

Night Editor -Rick Blower Assistant Night Editor -Andy Praschak Layout -Kathy Skiba, Sue Zwick, Maggie Waltman Copy Reader -Jim Eder and Ken 
Bradford Day Editor -Ken Girouard Editorials -Fred Graver Features-J.R. Baker Sports-Bill Dealney, Greg Corgan Typists-J. Carney, D. Roos, Kathy 
Grace, M. Arrleh, · Nell VIII, Karen Hlnles, Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator . Bob Steinmetz Picture Screener -Albert D'An­tonio Night Controller . Dave Rust 


-----~-~~--------------------------~--------------------------~-.------~--------------------------------~--.-~~--~ 
Monday, September 16, 1974 


the observer 5 





of oil, watercolor and charcoal 
by janet denefe 
The faculty art show, now on display at sheet lead that have been pounded into the University Art Gallery, reflects the very shape with a hammer. Ms. Kimmerly feels wide range of talenl and experience among "lead is very responsive. Every blow 
faculty members . counts." To her, lead is an exciting Many art medias are represented -oil, material which has a certain richness and 
watercolor, charcoal, soft and hard sheen. Ms. Kimmerly is devoted to her art sculpture, and photography. This enormous and says, "I believe in having something versatility within the exhibit not only to 'say and saying it. creates a fascinating show, but also gives We don't need less right now, we need the art student an opportunity to learn more.'" something about faculty members. He may The largest oil painting in the show want to choose a professor or adviser if this (approximately ten feet by five feet) is by 
person's work appeals to him. Don Vogl. It is a fresh approach to land­
One of the first things a viewer notices scape, composed in shades of grey, beige, upon entering the gallery is a seven-foot cream, and pale green. Splashes of burnt piece of soft sculpture fashioned from vinyl, orange highlight the study. This piece mohair, and natural wool. The sculpture really dominates the whole room. resembles an African ceremonial dance Father Flanigan, chairman of the art costume or even a Mycenean tholos tomb. department, spent the summer in Rome, 
The enthusiastic participant will crawl where he apparently was very productive. inside the sculpture, and finding himself He made eleven pieces of sculpture in wax, surrounded by red vinyl, will probably get then cast them himself in bronze. the feeling of returning to the pre-natal The five which are in the exhibition 

include a Crucifix, a Madonna and Child, 
stage.The sculptor, Moira Geoffreon, has en­and a figure reclining on a couch. The An untitled work by Doug Kinsey 
tered another piece of sculpture entitled statues range in size from four inches to one "Consumation." This work, of ap­foot tall. Dan Schroll is exhibiting a drawing and a proximately the same heighth as the other, Flanigan also made two charcoal painting. In both of them, one color Jack Kapsa has also worked with the 
is designed from red and black vinyl. drawings, one a self-portrait, and the other dominates the composition; in the drawing medium of photography. His studies are 
Two pieces of ceramic sculpture were a nude. The self-portrait especially is it is black, and in the painting, it is ochre. black and white, and depict a fascination contributed by Bill Kremer. Both are powerful. The artist has used strong, hard He is concerned with "lines and space, the with the relationship between the human oblong, about four feet wide, and are ivory strokes, and the effect is that the face seems juxtaposition of forms, and shapes--both body and cloud formations. He has entered in color. Kremer uses ceramics as a ground to be staring very hard from the drawing. rectangular and circular." a series of four photographs along with a for painting, and has imposed colorful Douglas Kinsey, who has a show coming Robert Leader is exhibiting "Triptych: single photograph. Kapsa also has a display 
images upon these fields. One is covered up in the spring, has entered a large (ap­Ship of Fools," a series of three paintings in the hallway of O'Shaughnessy near the with stripes of blue-green, yellow, orange, proximately four feet by eight feet) oil which form a whole. They are brilliant in Art Department, so interested viewers may 
aqua, and yellow-green. The second piece painting which is composed of five different color and luminosity; they almost glow in pursue his work further. presents an interesting interaction between paintings. The colors and tone mesh their richness. Leader's use of this intense Brian McCormick has two watercolors on stripes and curved, looping lines, in tones of together, however, to form one unit. It color can probably be attributed to his display. In one painting, he colors are as blue-grey and dark green. depicts a crowd of refugees, Cain slaying experience with glasswork. The artist bright and varied as those on a patchwork 
Kremer is giving a show which begins Abel, and Narcissus, naturally staring at his commented that his painting was satirical, quilt. The other painting is dominated by a October 6, so this is an exciting preview of reflection in a pond. (Note the beer can and thought his work bore a relationship powerful yellow and a sort of bloody red. 
the artist's capabilities. tossed on the grass.) It is interesting to with Goya and Hogarth.. Dr. Porter, Both employ the female figure. 
Susan Mead takes a conceptual approach learn that Kinsey practiced drawing Director of the Art Gallery, however noted a Robert Clark has entered two industrial to her work. One piece consists of darkened reflections in the lake here on campus. He closer relationship to Heironymus Bosch. des!gns which are marvelous in their detail bricks and long, torn strips of canvas. The even had the model for this painting pose Dick Stevens has done complicated work and complexity. One is of c:1 Triumph, in artist assembled it on the floor of the gallery upon a mirror. with color and photography. The colors he shades of red, and the other is a Suzuki, done itself. Her other entry is a thick piece of The work of Dennis Dauer, in the words employs are bright--blue, pink, green, and in tones of blue and green. etching paper punched with holes. Pieces of of one of his colleagues, is "poetical and purple. Diagrams of the human anatomy All of these works have been executed rope have been pushed through the holes to lyrical. He shows a positive side to the are placed adjacent to photographs of very recently, most of them during the 
form a V-shaped design. human condition, whch brings sunshine into nudes. In two of the three studies which are summer. There is an infinite variety within 
Ms. Mead is concerned with an idea of art, our concrete world." His larger painting on display, Stevens has superimposed the the exhibition; each artist is accomplishing with form and with texture. She is not portrays two nudes beside a pool, one image of a ruler on the colored surface. A something different. "The show is a very concerned with permanance, an obvious walking away from the other. There is an year ago Stevens exhibited his initial ex­strong one," said Dr. Dean Porter, director 
contrast to the work of Maxine Kimmerly. unmuddied clarity and beauty in the colors periments with color photography. These of the Art Gallery, "and one of the best Ms. Kimmerly's medium is beaten lead. that Dauer uses, as well as a complex and three pieces show a significant develop­faculty exhibits in years." Her two pieces of sculpture are masses of interesting surface quality. ment. 


the belfast cowboy holds back 
a review by fred graver 
Van Morrison cannot perform well and as a result found it hard to push himself performance. When a song was going well, without a strong band behind him, and a into performing up to expectations. such as during 'I Believe', his phrasing was strong audinnce in front of him. His best Morrison seemed himself to be at low ebb remarkably precise. But when things performances happen when he can feed last night. His voice at times was weak, and weren't going quite so well, as they weren't from the energies of both. at various points his performance was little during 'Jackie Wilson Said (I'm In Heaven 
Last night, the band played well. They more than a run-through. He relied too When You Smile)', his voice faltered, provided a strong backup for Morrison, at heavily on the band at times cutting off any wavered, and avoided hitting notes. In times they were the only source of energy he type of attempted improvisation. There short, Van Morrison was holding back. had. Particularly notable was their work on were a number of times when Morrison A good deal could be seen during the 'Gloria' and 'Wild Night', when one could stepped on the guitar and saxophone performance of 'Streamline Promenade', a watch the interchange of feeling on stage. players' work. He even disallowed his own long mood song which deals with the 
The problem with the concert was the improvising, interrupting unnaturally a purification of the artist's spirit. It was the audience. The Notre Dame audience is saxophone or harmonica solo, as in 'Brown most ambitious song that the band per­unaccustomed to being asked to give Eyed Girl.' formed, and the interruptions which had something to the performer besides the $5.50 The key to Morrison's constantly shifting characterized most of the night's work were for the ticket. Van Morrison asks for moods was his voice. He seemed to be absent. The audinece responded en­something a positive exchange of trying to protect and in the process thusiastically, and Van showed what he 

He got anything, revealed a could do when the elements were mixed Dave Loggins (Photo by Paul properly. Joyce) ~ There were two other incidents of ex­
A
change, or attempted exchange of energy images, textures from his music. On stage,between the audience, the band, and with a small band this is impossible. His •Morrison last night. The first occurred best live playing comes from hard-drivingduring 'Wild Night', when Morrison sear­rhythm and blues. Perhaps he should ched the faces of the crowd for some sort of confine his concerts to clubs, where there assurance. He received nothing, and as a would be more freedom to do what he felt 
l 
result had nothing to offer. rather than what an audience demands. 
The second exchange of energies occurred Van Morrison entered last night at low duuring 'I've Been 'Workin", when ebb, and left essentially unchanged. The Morrison brought the band down behind and audience got only a small taste of what they sang 'you've been holdin' back too much'. had come for, and were forced to beg (in the 
l
The line became a plea to the--audience, and -form of three absurd encores) for some one of the saxophone players began to clap sign of real performance.his hands, signalling the audience to follow. The opening act was Dave Loggins; a left­They did, with a strong and steady response. handed, uninspired rookie clown from 
Van picked up on the flow, and delivered a Nashville. He seems ill-prepared to hit the powerful harmonica solo. large concert audience right now, as These moments, though, were rare. Van wit_nessed by his ove~ly-indulgent 'raps'Morrison delivers astrange impression whtch served to cover hts nervousness. His when he is on stage, and this comes from his back-up group looked as though they couldn­inability to solve a dichotomy in his per­'t wait to get offstage, and at best their forming character. performance gave only a hint at their 
In the studio, Morrison creates tones. potential. 
6 the observer Monday, September 16, 1974 
------------~-----------­

Campus briefs. • • 
exchange and the inability of the
Langlais, the famed French "Discussion is stressed rather than Qogan recital organist, and with Donald chashiers to hanndle the large Plaid picked far the impartial hearings which have 
amount of change needed.

McDonald in this country. Their previously been the policy."scheduled concert tours have taken them to Despite these problems, Hegarty Irish Goord Such a situation necessitates a
stressed the benefits of the Student 
all sections of the nation and in­Notre Dame Plaid will be worn restructuring of the House Council 
Concert organists Kenneth and cluded performances in St. Union Book Exchange by saying for the first time this year by the membership and administration.
Ellen Landis, recently returned Patrick's Cathedral, Riverside "almost everyone sold something Irish Guard of the University's This reconstruction will be com­
from a European tour where they and a lot of people saved money by
Church and Fifth Avenue Maring Band. Designed in the pleted in the next few weeks.
premiered a new composition by buying their books there". It was
Presbyterian. Abroad, they have office of band director Robert F. Discipline problems are handled
David Clark Ise\e, will present a also noted that nearly 50 people
performed on the organ of the O'Brien, the new material features by the hall government in general
duo recital at 8:15p.m. Wednesday Basilica of St. Clotilde in Paris sold more than $20 worth of books 
each. the school's blue and gold colors on and the resident assistants in
in Sacred Hear Church. The where Caesar Franck played for 30 a background of green and has particular. Recurring problemsconcert is sponsored by the years, and at St. Paul's Cathedral Hegarty stated tnat anyone who are referred to the SRB.
been copyrighted for exclusive use
Department of Music and is open in London. has forgotten to pick up their 
of the guardsmen. The next SRB meeting will take
to the public without charge. money from the exchange can still
Their Notre Dame concert will place Wednesday, September 18.
get it from the Student Govern­Guardsmen are Terryinclude works of Marchand de
lsele, composer-in-residence at ment Secretary. Cavanaugh, captain, Michigan
Grigny, Boyvant, Bach, Burkhard 

Notre Dame, wrote "Zorgandum," The Student Union Services
Berlinski, Sowerbv. Stewart and City, Jim Donnely, Ridgewood, 'M::Lean :Mix' 
a piece for two organists, for the Commission sponsored the ex­N.J., C.W. 'Chuck' Quackenbush,
CDucasse in addition to Isele.
couple and the composition change in which students can sell Dayton, Ohio, H.C. 'Chip' toperfcrm at SlVC received high praise from ~heir us~~ books by bringing them Clitheroe, Anaheim, Calif., Tom
Book exchange

European music critics. It will m and flllmg out a contract, which Clemens, St. Louis, Tim Jordan, A program of electronic musicreceive its American premiere at gave the Student Union the right to Albuquerque, N.M., Ernie Stalzer, will be performed by Barton andthe Sacred Heart concert. 'Successful' keep any unsold books that ere not Northport, N.Y., Andy Praschak, Priscilla McLean Thursday,picked up by a specified date. Gary, Ind, Mark Baumgartner,
Landis received undergraduate by Fred Herbst September 19, at 8:00 p.m. in the
The Student Union sold the books West Bend Wis., and John Fyfe,
and advanced degrees in music Staff Reporter Little Theater, Saint Mary's.
at no commission and presented Glasgow-born advisor for the unit.
from Westminster Choir College in 
Princeton, N.J., and served on the Brian Hegarty, organizer of the the students with cash. The ex­Live and taped compositions will 
Student Union Book Exchange, change was paid for by the selling be presented by the duo, knownfaculty of three central Penn­
of books left from the previous
sylvania colleges, Wilson, Messiah yesterday announced the results of exchange. Social \IJa'k collectively and professionally as and Lebanon Valley, before this fall's exchange. the McLean Mix. 
moving to the Market Square Noting that $4,155 worth of books The date for the next Student seminar slated Barton McLean is an assistant Presbyterian Church, Harrisburg, were sold, twice as much as last Union Book Exchange has not been A day-long workshop, "Super­professor of music at Indiana 
spring's exchange, Hegarty set,, but it will be held early in the University at South Bend, where
Pa., as director of music and vision in Social Work", will be held 
organist. His wife is also a described the exchange as "ex­sprmg semester. Thursday, September 19, 1974, at he teaches composition and theory Westminster graduate and tremely successful". In terms of In speaking of the success of this St. Mary's. Sponsored by the and directs the electronic studio. presently shares duties as co­actual volume, approximately fall's exchange, Hegarty gave a department of sociology, an­Priscilla McLean teaches piano 
organist, choir director, and artist­2,400 books were sold. great deal of credit to co­thropology, and social work at and composition at Saint Mary's. A in-residence at the Riverside Due to the large volume of books organizers Bob Dudick and John Saint Mary's, in conjunction with specially commissioned bicen­
School of the Performing Arts in handled a number of problems Lawton. Also donating time and Goshen College and the local tennial composition by Ms. Harrisburg. arose. The most serious of which services to the exchange were: chapter of the National Association McLean will be premiered at IUSB Ann Bebenek, Dave Caldwell, next spring.
The couple has studied with Jean were the overcrowding of the of Social Workers, the workshop
Carol Guckert, Cliff Hurndon, will begin at 9 a.m. in Carroll Hall. In October, McLean Mix will Cheryl Toparo, Maryfran Hayes, Dr. Phillip Fellin, dean of the present three days of lectures, Rich Ingram, Bob Quakenbush, School of Social Work at the demonstrations and concerts at the Jerry Wantz, Mark Sever, Tim University of Michigan, will University of Akron.

Grenade explodes 
Hake, Phil Mancini, Bob Hut­present a major address during the The September 19 recital is open chinson, Ginny Procari and Gary session. to the public without charge. 
•


ID French store 
PARIS <UPI) A man drugstore buying a toy dog
hurled an explosive into a when the bomb exploded.crowded drugstore Sunday, "I don't remember much, but 
ki !ling and wounding patrons I remember a man-he was and sending others bleeding totally smashed by the bomb. If 
into the crowded streets of the he was not dead then, he must Latin Quarter to call for help. be by now. There was no Police said one person was warning."killed and at least 'Z7 injured in the blast. Jacques Ferry, who works for Radio Andorra, said, "It's an 
! 
Witnesses told police the unimaginable thing. It reminds bomber was about 30 years old me of the Algerian war and the and well-dressed. He threw the explosions in the bars of 
grenade, which exploded on Algiers. People were justimpact, from a first floor pushed out into the street
• balcony and then immediately coveretl with blood." disappeared into a bustling 
The last bombings in Paris

crowd on Boulevard St. Ger­Aug. when went
were 3, blastsmain. 
off at two right-wing newspa­Pools o blood streamed pers which have been critical of 
across the sidewalk as the the Arabs and at an office 
wounded staggered into the which collected money for 
street and called for help in the Israel. 
neighboring Brasserie Lipp, Paris Police Prefect Jean 
traditional drinking spot for Paolini did not rule out the 
French and foreign politicians possibility of a political attack,and intellectuals. but he refused to speculate.Owner of the bombed-out "We are studying all angles,"
Publicis drugstore, which is he said. combined with a cinema, is He said a police examination Marcel Bleustein-Blanchet, a showed that the explosive used Jewish businessman whose apparently was an American­drugstore on the Champs made grenade. He said some Elysees burned to the ground witnesses said the explosive two years ago. looked like two grenades tied 
Police refused to theorize on together.the motive for the bombing or The explosive was droppedspeculate if it was. connec~ed onto a lowered area of the with the forthcommg Jew1sh store-floor, police said. DamageNew Year. was not extensive, and a fire 
"It was so horrible," said brigade official said a tobacco weeping Parisian Diane de counter may have absorbed 
Beauvau, 19, who was in the some of the blast. 
HALLS or CLUBS v,tlnting CafiSSIO'JS PERMTS for J-f()\ltE 
F<X>TBALL ~EKENDS M.JST APPLY 
TO STUO:NT AcnVITIES O:FI<E 
(LAFORTUNE) BY 11-URSDAY, SEPT. 19 at 5pm Telephone 7308 
' • • .. •• " 

morning Topical
Paruta. 

workshops, lead by college per­sonnel involved in supervisory 
Mony Present 
education and training, will be held

Burke elected 

razy Record
in the afternoon. 


A $4.00 fee covers registration

drumrmjor 
golf: the highest score ever

and luncheon in the College Dining 
recorded is that of Chevalier von Cittern of 

Thomas Burke, a junior student Hall. To register or obtain ad­
majoring in mechanical ditional information, contact Mrs. 
France. He scored a 316 for

engineering, has been elected Patricia Pilger, Saint Mary's 
18 holes at Biarritz, France,

drum major of this year's mar­College; 284-4462. 
in 1888. He averaged more

ching band. The former member of 
than 17 shots per hole! I!

the trumpet section in the "Band Student Board
of the Fighting Irish" served for 
Source: Guiness' Book of World 
two years as drum major of the St. reorganized 
Records 

Joseph High School band in his native Cleveland before enrolling 
The SMC Student Relations
at Notre Dame. 

Board, formerly called the
He will lead the band during pep 
Judicial Board, is being
rallies on the campus and at six 
reorganized to bring student af­
home football games, as well as a 
fairs closer to the hall level.

road trip to Nichigan State. Two years after coeducation, Notre Dame's 159-member band includes 33 women, almost double last year's representation of 17. 
B•>b Roemer, Class of '73 







61.~ 
~ 
pnmec 
Life insurance tailored to fit the unique needs of students and young professionals. 
For further information call: 

2 3 3-3 1 0 4 
ITS GOOD TO HAVE 

M0NY 
IN YOUR FUTURE 
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
., ................. ., ..... ·~ •• ". t. t ·-., , , ' t ' f • •• ~ 
,.,, .... , ......................................... 
~­

-~------­
....---------------...-·~--~ -----------------~--------~~-~-­
•• > '. 
Monday, September 16, 1974 

fhe observer 

McLaughlin discusses 
LOST AND FOUND Lost Wed night at Uncle Willie's -brown wallet, desperately need all



food co-op plans 
(continued from page 1) 
-

direct distribution of food from neighborhood pickups. Indiana law makes this plan unfeasible by demanding that food distribution establishments be used for no purpose other than food distribution. 
Rooms, basements, or garages donated by off-campus students to the food co-i>p project, therefore, cannot be used by them for any other purpose. 
The law also demands that such distribution centers have special lighting, ventilation, toilet and running-water facilities as well as daily refuse pick-up, said McLaughlin. 

book "accidentally" taken from South Dining Hall 9-5. Please give back -no
DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
questions asked. 235 Walsh, Copr. '7.j Gen'l Features Corp. 
8093. 
ACROSS 55 Tuck's China 1 Women companion 12 Thick soup 
FOR SALE 
5 Plant louse 57 -tide 13 "Hit the dirt" 
For sale: 1 Slazenger
10 Electrical units, 58 Kiel Canal link 18 Hebrew prophet 
tennis racket, $12:00. 1
for short 61 M. Guitry 22 Of great import-
Dunlop Maxply racket,
14 Anklebones 65 --podrida ance 
$22:00. Excellent con­
15 Withered old (stew) 24 -mater 
ditions. Call Jeff, 6161.
woman 66 Former Russian 27 Social buds 16 Author Bellow leader 28 Raison d'­
'68 Plymouth Fury 111,
17 Mamie 68 River in England 29 Robin, the sprite19 Spore clusters 69 Highway sections 30 Bar legally 
58,000 miles. New tires 
since June. Good cond.
oli ferns 70 Tortoise's 32 Wheel projection
20 Musical sign competition 36 Famous queen, 
$595. Bed · Queen size -$75. 
21 Agitated 71 Pulls for short 
Coffee table, $15. Stroller,
23 Asian 72 Water pitchers 37 Cut 
$5. Car seat, $12. All items
25 Acme 73 Hebrew name 39 Zuider ­
like new. 272-9193.
26 Observe meaning man 41 Der Alte 27 Charles, of 42 Film director 
For sale: Electrovoice . 18
France DOWN Clair 
speakers, 3-way, 12"
31 Riviera resort 1 Small distance 45 Painter Guido 
woofer, 5" midrange, 120
33 W.W. II theater 2 Mod musical ~7 -away -­
degree high frequency
34 French titles: 3 In addition 50 Hammer's 
dispersion. $225 pr. Call
Abbr. 4 Rest from the companion 
277-0151.
35 Grab midday sun 52 Geronimo was 38 Tito 5 German one 
NOTICES 
40 "-is Born" exclamation 53 German sub 
InPI RG office hours: 1 -3
43 Lounging slipper 6 Short, vivid 54 Series of shots 
pm, Student Government
44 Passover service biographies 56 Exclamation of 
Offices, 2nd floor LaFor­
46 Pindarics 7 American invent-impatience 
tune. Ph. 7668 or 6413, ext.
48 Different or 59 Sunny shades 49 Admission 8 Inactive 60 Sea bird 
6. charges 9 Homily 6.2 Detective Charlie 51 Famed five-sided 10 Part of YMCA: 63 Man orthe hour NO Backpackers Meeting. building Abbr. 64 The birds Tuesday, 8 pm, LaFortune 53 Handle 11 Big name in 67 Draft org. Auditorium. 
lnPIRG Town Meeting, Thurs Sept 19, 7 pm, I.C. LaFortune. Find out what you can do! 
Anyone who has studied Aikido and would like to to practice again or anyone who would like to study Aikido, please contact John at 287-6830. 
TALISMAN NOW AVAILABLE FOR DAN­CES, CONCERTS, PAR­TIES, AND PRE-GAME PERFORMANCES. FOR INFORMATION, CALL 272-9895. 
identification. Reward.
The fourth alternative examined 
Call Mark, 1175, Alumni
was a temporary on-campus 
313.
station at Stepan Center. 
This plan, however, would necessitate building a permanent 
Lost: Gold wire-rimmed 
glasses and blue wind­
partition for the co-i>p in Stepan 
breaker. Call Mike at 3134.
Center, which would eliminate the 
use of the building for pep rallies, Mardi G.ras and ROTC drills. 
Lost: pair of men's glasses 
between NO Ave. and
McLaughlin feels that 'the 
campus. Call Pat, 234-5823.
University must make a com­
mitment' to establishing a food distribution co-i>p. 
Lost: Sept 11 a.m. Notre 
Dame class ring (white
'Even though it demands a per­
inscription on inside:
manent and ambitious un­
"PMR '75." Reward for
dertaking ,rising prices demand 
return. Please contact Pat, said. 'It would be a service not 
that we provide this facility,' he 
3404. 
only to off-campus students but to 
Reward for return of green
on-campus students, faculty and 
spiral notebook and-or
administration personnel as well.' 
Computer Data Processing 


CIA')Sif1ED AIS 
"Send help to Freshman at St. Teresa's. Extension 528, P.O. 309." "Please omit flowers." 
"The Turkey" 
Sunflower Music Shop: we buy old guitars, banjos, mandolins. Also do custom building and repair. 25 percent off on strings, capos, etc. Visit us at 632 N. Portage, South Bend. Phone 288-5485. 
MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150, basement of LaFor­tune, daily, 11:15-12:15. 
EUPHORIA (RECORDS ANl> TAPES) IS BACK. 
CHEAP? WE BEAT ALL SOUTH BEND PRICES. SPECIAL FOR DEAD FREAKS. DEAD ALBUMS, RIDICULOUSLY CHEAP, 
UNTIL  THURS.  WE  
DELIVER  TTO  NO  
STUDENTS.  CALL  234­ 
6535.  

Young physicist available to assemble A-bomb for Mafia Terrorist Groups. Reasonable rates. Greg Koos, 1781. 
SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE FROM 12:15 • 
5:00 MWF AND 11:00-1:00 & 2:30 -5:00 TTH. 
24 Hour TV Service. 7 days a week -Sundays and holidays. Color TV's $60.00 and up. Stereos $50.00 and up. Western Electronics, 1530 Western Ave., 282-1955. 
NO Backpackers' Meeting. Tuesday, 8 pm, LaFortune Auditori.um. 
PERSONALS To Christopher Peter Desantis: We wanted to publicly embarrass you but Steve wouldn't tell us anything incriminating because you're so vengeful. Happy Birthday anyway. Love, 
M. F. C. K. 
To the Antichrist and the Atheists: 
May pitch and brimstone shower upon Avignon and may you be bound by red­hot chains to your judgment! 
The Supreme Roman Pontiff 
Sue, 
I must sadly inforr tou 
of the recent death c our 
son Zap. He fell o he 
mantle. Hope Skip is 1ng 
fine. 
Tim WANTED 
Desperately need 2 G tix for Purdue game. :an Trace at 283-1889. 
Wanted: Ride to Washington DC. Abl· to leave S. Bend on ed, Thurs. or Fri, Sept 19. 20, 
21. Will share gas .md driving. Call Ma tha Walsh, 234-3306. 
Need 3 GA Miami tix. ':all Mark, 842('. 
Wanted: Roommates (male). NO apts, im­mediately. Call Bob, 283­3019. 
Desperately need 4 GA tix for Miami. Call Rich, 6981. 
Need 2 GA Rice tix. Please call Steve, 289-9379. 
Desperately need Purdue tix, GA or student. Call Joe, 
3663. 
Need 2 GA tix to Rice or Army games. Willing to pay $. Call Jim, 6764. 
Need Northwestern tix. Call Bryan, Chuck, or Mike at 3185. 

.. 
Need 4 to 6 GA tickets for Pitt or Miami. Call 288­2613. 
Wanted: 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call Larry, 288­7375. 
Need 2 GA Purdue tix. Ca,ll Bob, 3374. 
Must have 1 ticket, GA or student. Call Joe, 1132. 
Need 3 GA tix to Army. Call Ravely, 272-7198. 
Need 1 Purdue ticket. Call Pam, 5185. 
Want to sell 4 season tickets and want to buy 3 GA tickets to Miami or Pitt. Call 232-6790 after midnight on Mon, Tues, or Wed. 

... 
Need 1 student tix for Northwestern game. Call 7659 
Need: 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call 233-5925. 

Need 4 GA tix to Rice. Call 4726. 
SPEND AWEEKEND IN REFLECI10N
. AR:> amiSTIAN UVING 
With 
JOHN DUNN& CSC 
At 

Old College 
$6 fee -$3 of which is a non­refundable registration deposit. 
ll,~gister at Campus Ministry Office (103 Library) 
the observer Monday, September 16, 1974 
Burda captures ND Open; finishes towney even par 
two keys that made this year's Coach O'Sullivan will take his
8y Hill Delaney 
Open the great tournament it was, Irish Linkers down to Purdue this according to O'Sullivan. "I was .. Friday for a head-to-head match very pleased that 39 golfers against the Boilermakers. As forThe 1974 Notre Dame Open was completed the four rounds" said the rest of the fall, the Irish willcaptured by Jeff Burda's even-par O'Sullivan "To be able to pick the entertain Purdue at the end of the 284 over the Burke Course this finest golfers on the Notre Dame month at Burke, and will journeyweekend, in the first test of the campus on the basis of this tourney tc Ball State in early October. It isIrish Linkers this season. The gives me a group of players I O'Sullivan's hope to solidify hissuccessive-weekend tourney was really can depend on. The young team before the homecapped by Burda's attempt to weather, course condition and pin match versus Purdue, in an at­break the Open record of 278 by placement were all conducive tempt to mold the Notre DameJack Fitzpatrick, set in 1944 His in selecting the top performers." Golfers into a power in the up­run at the record fel1 short coming season.

however, but his score represented one of the best in the past15 years. 
"I wasn't very satisfied with my 



Stick:men progress
play, but overall, I must admit that I had a good Open," said Burda by George Eckes played high school lacrosse onwho had t5 birdies and an eagle Long Island, expostulatedon the over his first three rounds. "I The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club N.D. Lacrosse scene, "I wasreally didn't play up to my held another in a line of intersqaud rather hesitant when I heard it waspotential, but I'll be ready when scrimmages which precedes their only a club and not a team, but that the season starts." Co-captain rendition of the Blue-Gold game is all changed. I'm really im­Mike Kistner probably best which will be held I:00 Sunday, pressed by the competitionsummed up the team's feelings September 22, at the Stepan Center displayed."
about Burda's attempt, "If 
Field. The new team excitement and anyone had a chance to set the A sense of excitementand con­confidence certainly draws itsrecord, it would have to be Jeff. 
fidence fills the team from origin from the hard work of theHe's had a great summer, and has President Rich Caron on down to atheletes, but the addition of two been very Impressive since we've incoming freshmen who are get­females could have something to been back." 
ting their first taste of college do with the team morale. P.J. lacrosse. Caron remarks on the Kane and Lisa Michels have joined Besides Burda's fine play, Coach team's cohesiveness. "We are the stickmen as time-keeper andNoel O'Sullivan was very pleased much farther ahead in terms of statistician respectively. Thesewith scores of his other veterans what we want to accomplish appointments aren't an example of and a few newcomers who played during the fall than we were last women's lib tokenism either. Theyextremely we_ll in the Open. 
year at this time." Co-captain both come from the BaltimoreJunior Paul Koprowski's final John Corcoran also added, "I'm area and played this75 for a total of 298, placed him in happily surprised over the success tough, physical game in highsecond place, one stroke ahead of of the team. We are passing and school. P.J. attained stardom byRich Knee, who scored to an 81on catching the ball with mid-season playing varsity in the 8th grade.
his final round. "I played a efficiency. I'm also happy con­Asked whether she sustained anymediocre round, but fortunately cerning the freshmen we have injuries during her high schoolkept the ball in play" noted acquired. Some, like Mark Car­days or stayed in the backround,Koprowski. "The weather and the berry and Mark Connelly have the pretty brunette coed oc­course demanded fine golf, and I played extensively in high school." casionally practices with the varsit: was happy with my score." 
Corcoran, wllo was to be heavily replied;·, Oh yes, I tore my 
Seniors Ed Whalen and Mike depended on last year, ripped ligaments from the top of my knee Kistner completed the Open with ligaments in a contest with Ohio on down, but that's all a part of the identical 300 totals. with Kistner's State and is still not in uniform due game." final 73 being the low round of the to the injury, but as he notes," It's Joe Meares, co-captain seemed day. Juniors John Delaney and just precautionary for the fall. I'll to sum it all up when he said, "I'm Tom Coury turned in the best be 100 per cent by the time our first happy with theperserverenceof the scores of the newcomers, with regular season game rolls group. It is a hard game to pick up 
totals of 302 and 304 respectively, around." and everyone is sticking right with giving O'Sullivan two additional As well as the upperclassmen it." 
fine players to work with. optimism, newcomers to the The scrimmage on Sunday will college competition are impressed. be the last tune-up .before a home The weather and the amount of encounter with Purdue September players finishing ths Open were Freshman John Murphy, who 28. 


ND harriers convincingin opener 
the Irish finishers. The fist four Irish scorers ran 
by Pat Reidy 
personal bests on their home course whileNotre Dame's:ross-country team kicked off its playing havoc with once-vaunted 25:00 mark.
1974 season Saturday at Burke Golf Cou~se These mid-season performances were par­crushing Illinois State and Purdue. The Irish ticularly gratifying since both Purdue andswept the double dual meet beating Illinois State Illinois State had defeated the Irish a year a19-36 and shutting off the Boilermakers 15-40. 
ago.
Irish harriers -Mike Housley, Jim Reinhart and Jim Hurt tool command early in the race, "This meet gives us a lot of confidence going with splits of 4:47 and 9:36 for the first two miles. into the unpcoming meets with teams we really By the three mile mark the Irish trio was firmly enjoy running against, n~mely Nort~west~rn in command. and Michigan State," sa1d Co-captam M1ke 
Gahagan after Saturday's race.
Co-captain Housley end_ed up_ taki~g indivi_dual honors touring the five mile distance m a 
The next scheduled meet for the Notre Dame
brillia~t 24:23. Reinhart, with a 24:27 and Hurt 
cross-country team is Saturday at Northwestern.
with a 24:30 followed onHousleys heels for the 
Last season the Irish defeated the Wildcats here, entire race. but this year's encounter is at hilly Gray's Lake Mike Gahagan placed sixth with a 25:04 and and should provide a stiffer challenge than 
Joe Yates place ninth with a 25:09 to round out Purdue and Illinois State. 





Irish opponents fared slightly Ferocious Army started off on above the .500 mark for the first the right track with a convincing full weekend of college football. 14-7 win over Lafayette. New 
The big upset of course was Cadet Head Coach Homer Smith Arkansas' 22-7 shellacking of unveiled a wishbone offense which Southern Cal in Little Rock. Pat accounted for 308 rushing yards, Haden, 'The greatest passer Coach 111 by quarterback Scott Gillogly, John McKay had ever seen,' was and two second period touchdowns. only six of 18 through the air for 59 Army will not savor the victory yards. Moreover he was in­long, however. They play Tulane tercepted four times and did not next week. complete a passuntil the final play Navy, whom the Irish play of the third quarter. USC's only November 2 in Philadelphia touchdown came as a result of continued to show signs of Anthony Davis' 100 yard kickoff becoming somewhat respectable return. downing the University of Virginia 
Elsewhere, six of the Irish 35-28. To round out the three eleven opponents were victorious . service academies, Air Force Michigan State, NO's fourth game defeated Idaho 37-0 in Colorado on Oct. 5, clobbered Northwestern Springs. The Falcons used three 41-7. Mitch Anderson, the Wildcats touchdowns by runningback Ken 
quarterback, was 20 of 36 through Wood and three field goals by Dave the air but for a scant 167 yards. Lawson to beat Idaho. 
Charlie Baggett, the Spartan The other two ND opponents in ;ignal-caller, was 4 of 7 for 150 the '74 season,. Purdue and Rice, yards with touchdown passes of 57 were both losers. The Boiler­and 44 yards. makers lost to a tough Wisconsin 
At Florida State, the Pitt Pan­squad in West Lafayette 28-14 thers had a struggle but outlasted while Rice met their crosstwon the Seminoles 9-6. The Irish en­rivals Houston. The Cougars, 
tertain Pittsburgh on November highly upset after an opening loss 
16. Moving northsomewhat, the to Arizona State a week ago, shut Georgia 'l'ech Yellow Jackets out the Rice Owls 21-0. Miami, bounced back from last Monday's NO's seventh opponent on Oct. 26, loss to Notre Dame, and with only was idle. four days off swamped South This week's Irish Eye top Carolina 35-20 in Atlanta. twenty: 
No.  Weekend results  Position last week  
1.) Oklahoma 2.) Notre Dame 3.) Ohio State 4.) Nebraska S.)Alabama 6.) Michigan 7.) Arizona B.l LSU  Beat Baylor 28-11 did not play Beat Minnesota 34-19 Beat Oregon 61-7 Beat Maryland 21-16 Beat Iowa 24-7 Beat San Diego State Beat Colorado 42-14  1 2 3 8 4 6 7 9  
9. )Arkansas  Beat USC 22-7  13  
10. usc 11.) Texas  Lost to Arkansas 22-7 Beat BC 42-19  5 12  
12.) Penn State  Beat Stanford 24-20  11  
13. )Kansas State  Beat Tulsa 31-14  15  
14.) Texas Tech  Beat Iowa State 24-3  17  
15. )Pittsburgh  Beat Florida State 9-6  10  
16.) Houston 17.)Maryland  Beat Rice 21-0 Lost to Alabama 21-16  14 unranked  
18.) Arizona State 19.) Miami 20.) Stanford  did not play did not play Lost to Penn State 24-20  unranked 20 unranked  

and the worst ten: 
6.) Iowa

l.)Wake Forest 
7.) Army

2.) Columbia 
8.1 Oregon

3.) Virginia Tech 
9. l Ohio University

4.) California 
10. l Indiana

5.lUTEP 






