~~­
--...__,­
,1 -----
Shumate leaving.•. see story on back page 

OD The Inside 
Blue jay blues •.• page 6 New Orleans Superdome . . . pages 10-11 
Vol. VIII, No. 101 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

by George Velcich Staff Reporter 
Following up with Wednesday's food service student opinion survey and the recent food saving initiatives, the Observer· interviewed directors from nine Midwestern colleges and universities. 
Rising food costs have forced many of the schools to curtail special dinners, and seconds, as well as limiting the quality of food produced. Most of the directors were reluctant to reveal budgets, but were more than eager to elaborate innovations and exclusive treats. 
Thus our appraisals: 
Purdue 
The students who eat in the residence halls are granted seconds for everything by the main entree and an occasional special dessert. Miss Ellen Townsend, the director, says the service operates in eight-week cycles, with rare variation. 
In an experimental aspect tried in one dorm, a group of up to 40 students may_ ~equest .a distinctive dinner. A section of the dmmg area IS cordoned off, and they are served the specific dinner of their choice. Townsend calls the system very workable, adding, "Studentsgive a great response when they have something to do with the food they eat." She plans to expand the request program next fall. 
Loyola, Chicago 
Loyola's 2700 diners eat steak once a week, 
and at least three different entrees at everyother 
meal. Seconds for all but steak. A student 
advisory committee meets every week to help 
plan meals and suggest specials. Assistant 
Director Miles Jacobsen adds, "We've save a 
large part of the budget for 'International Week,' 
held in April with 6 nights of foreign cuisines. 
And once a week, surprise desserts and malts." 
Indiana 
No seconds are served on breakfast or dinner 
meat, but Miss Jane Billyed says the students 
are more than satisfied with the unlimited 
vegetable, desserts and beverages available. 
Steak nights arerare,but specials center around 
the holidays and infrequent foreign dinners. 
Menu meetings are held every week and no 
cycles are utilized. She claims the students' 
requests usually meet with great success_, owi~g 
to the very flexible menu plan. Desp1te this 
success few of the ten thousand dinners attend the weekly meetings. Billyed explains, "We've tried to have more student opinions at our meetings, but I guess with a school so much larger the Notre Dame, enthusiasm is hard to find." 
Illinois 
This service works on a six-week cycle, and again, food prices have affected meal planning. Coordinator Dohrman says simply, "There used to be steak nights. Though the food's no dif­ferent, we try to change the atmosphere, and decorate for picnics and carnivals." Seconds are only for beverages. Despite the nearly 30,000 Fighting Illini that attend, only 9,000 use the service, and perhaps we can understand why. 
Ohio State 
Buckeyes eat 20 meals a week, in separate dining halls, called commons. Steaks are scarce. A student board plans the eight yearly specials, when 8500 diners feast on international cuisines, and "wonderful holiday delights." Again, only a minor percentage of all students use the service. 
St. Joseph's College at Rensselaer 
In order to meet ever-rising food prices, meal service director Max Morphew has cancelled higher-cost foods, and turned to cheaper meals. Citing the 69 cent per student per meal budget, the service now offers three or four different dishes nightly. A weekly monotony break is usually a "make-your-Qwn-sundae." And once a month, the three week regular cycle is broken with a complete "Adventure in Dining." For 900 St. Joe's students, April means Greek. 
Dayton 
No seconds, but unlimited beverages and salad offered. The service runs a five-week program, and the 1500 students enjoy a monthly holiday special. Thomas Madigan cleverly planned a German Oktoberfest, and an Irish March. And somehow, April at Dayton is Polynesian. 
Marquette and Northwestern 
Both are catered by SAGA, the same folks that feed St. .Mary's. The students enjoy weekly pace changes, and monthly holiday dinner treats. But steak nights, which come about once a month, are less common than at St. Mary's. 
complying with demand 
Hearst confident of daughter's safety 
by Richard A. Litfin 

SAN FRANCISCO <UPO Randolph A. Hearst said today he is convinced that his kidnaped daughter, Patricia, is "well and fine" and that he will hear from her Symbionese Liberation Army captors after he puts another $4 million in escrow to meet SLA demands. 
He added that if he does not hear from the SLA after completing the escrow arrange­ment in two or three days he will be "very fearful." 
Appearing outside his subur­ban Hillsborough home, Hearst answered reporters' questions about the trusteeship arrange­ment being set up to handle the additional $4 million offered for release of his daughter who was kidnaped Feb. 4. 
The money was put up by the Hearst Corporation to supple· ment $2 million previously provided by Hearst for the people in need food program demanded by the SLA. The corporation funds were made contingent on the release of Patricia, with $2 million to be paid when she is freed and $2 million more on Jan. 1, 1975. 
Hearst was asked about a 
statement of A. Ludlow Kra­
mer, director of the People in Need program, who said Tuesday on completion of the food giveaway that it had been surrounded by "total violence." 
"I think Mr. Kramer's life very well may have been threatened," he said. "I pre­sume he got threats in the mail." 
He added that he wanted to thank Kramer and others who conducted the food program and also the "people them­selves who had to wait hours until it got efficiently opera­ting." 
"These people (who received the food) were very patient and very peaceful." 
Hearst said he wanted to concentrate on the good things that happened during the five food distributions in the San Francisco area "and not sit around and talk about the ripoffs and some of the bad things." 
"I think under the circum­stances I was satisfied with it," he said. 
Hearst said the additional money from the Hearst Corp. would be set up in an escrow arrangement with a bank and that three trustees would be named, who would "be accepta­ble to any liberal group in the country." 




l. 
the observer  Friday, March 29, 1974  
..  
warld  


briefs 
CARACAS tuPI>-Hcavy weight boxing champion George Foreman was barred from leaving Venezuela Thursday until he pays $105,000 in taxes on his purse from Tuesday's match with Ken Norton. 
Foreman, 16 members of his entourage, and six members of Nor­ton's group were stopped by immigration authorities at the Caracas airport when they tried to leave for the United States. Venezuelan officials said Foreman would have to pay $105,000 in taxes from his $700,000 purse and Morton $30,000. 
MOSCOW <UPil-The wife and family of Alexander I. Solzhenitsyn leave Russia Friday to join the Nobel prize-winning author in exile. Mrs. Natalya Solzhenitsyn, her mother and four children will fly to Zurich on a Swissair jetliner. 
an campus taday 
friday 

12:15 p.m.-seminar, "autochthonot·s microorganisms, gastrointestinal ecosystems, and animal physiology," by dr. dwayne c. savage , dept. of microbiology, u. of ill. at urbana­champaign -sponsored by the microbiology dept. In room 102, lobund lab. 
7, 9:30, 1 p.m.-film, the poseidon adventure, knights of columbus, $1.00 
4:30 p.m.-colloquium-"special problems of representation by quadratic forms," by prof. hans petersson. sponsored by the math dept., room 226, computing center. 
5 p.m.-mass and dinner, bulla shed. 7 p.m.-speech, mr. walter johnson, black attorney, arts festival, "black perspectives in transition." n.d. law school 1, 9:30, 12 p.m.-film, "the poseidon adbenture" knights of columbus, $1.00 7 & 8 p.m.-film, "rfk remembered," engineering auditorium, free. 
7:30 p.m.-film, indian movie "the adversary", library auditorium, free 
8p.m.-bridge, duplicate bridge the university club. everyone welcome. 
8:15 p.m.-concert, smc music dept. chamber concert the little theatre free 
8:30 p.m.--drama, plnter's "the homecoming" washington hall. 
9 p.m.-coffeehouse, kevin kellogg, ron depetrls, john stelnman, sheila shlppy vs. mchale bros., lower level cafeteria smc. 
8:30 p.m.-concert, directions In Jazz II notre dame jazz band, quest artist curtis johnson engineering aud. 
9:30 p.m.-religion seminar, gabriel vahanlan, remington 
professor of religion, syracuse university, "uthopio as ethic of leisure" and "karl barth: theologian of culture.", library lounge 
10 p.m.--dance, featuring "kool people", black arts festival, stepan center, $1.00 admission. saturday 
10 a.m. -5 p.m.-auction, public auction by south bend chapter for muscular dystrophy In o'laughlin aud. 10 a.m. --black arts festival, "black perspectives In transition." 
1, 3:30, 7, 9:30, 12 p.m.-film, the poseidon adventure, knights of columbus $1.00 1, 2, 3p.m.-rugby, b, a, and cgames began, nd vs. ohio state, fields behind stepan center, free 7 and 8 p.m.-film, "rfk remembered," engineering aud., free. 8 p.m.-talent show, sophomore weekend talent show, little theater. 
8:30 p.m.-drama, plnter's "the homecoming" washington hall. sunday 
1, 3:30, 7, 9:30 p.m.-film, the poseidon adventure, knights of columbus, $1.00 , 
2 p.m.-black arts festival, "black perspectives In transition. 
7 p.m.-meeting, nd back packers, easter trip organization., Ia fortune 
7:30 
p.m.-concert, "rare earth" ace tickets on sale $5.50, $4.50. $3.50 

7:30 
p.m.-concert "voices incorporated" presents "journey Into blackness" sponsored by nd black cutural arts festival. o'laughlin aud. tickets $3, $2, $1. 


8 p.m.-american character series, "mark twain at home" with 
tom noel. sponsored by the cac patrons free. 
A rescheduling r 
Dennis Banks, the Indian from Wounded Knee who was schedule 1 to speak last night in the · Engineering auditorium, was not able to appear because his plane was delayed in Chicago. 
The Academic Commission has I rescheduled Banks' talk for · tonight. Time and place will be announced in the dining halls. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college s~ester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame end St. Mary's College. SubScriptions may be purchased for Sl per semester (S14 per veer) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Deme, Indiana 46556. Second class post11ge paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
washington hall $1 admission. 

INTERESTED IN SEEING THE COUNTRY? 
MEETING 
A LOT OF 
PEOPLE? 

BECOME AN ND CHEERLEADER 
CALL PAT 8408 OR BE AT STEPAN SUZY 4236 SUN. AT 2:00 
BEING PART OF THE No. 1 TEAMS? 

4,067 signatures collected 
InPIRG petitions tabulated 
by Drew Wallach Staff Reporter 

InPIRG, Indiana Public Interst Research Group, has completed its Notre Dame petition drive, ac­cumulating 4,067 student signatures. 
The proposal would permit InPIRG, a student controlled organization whose purpose is to articulate and pursue the concerns 
of students and the community at large on issues· of general public interest , to be financed by a special fee of $3.00 per student per year. A clause also stipulated that 
Mime premieres at Meet your Major weekend 
The premiere performance of Peter and the Wolf, a mime directed by senior Christopher Ceraso, will highlight a Meet Your Major afternoon social sponsored by the Notre Dame--saint Mary's Cooperative Department of Speech and Drama at 2 p.m. Sunday, March 31 in the Little Theater of O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Faculty members and students majoring in the department ewill conduct tours of broadcasting facilities to explain new television and videotaping equipment, rehearsal areas and costumes and property. 
The department is in the process 

of making new concentrations 
available in the Speech and Drama 
program. These include a general 
curriculum in speech and drama, 
speech, communication, theater 
arts, film and broadcasting, and 
speech education. Dance in­
struction will be incorporated into 
the program next year. , 
The program is open to all 

students planning to major in the 
department or who have a. casual 
interest in speech and drama. 
Petitions filed 
for next week's 

class elections 
by Susan Nash Staff Reporter 
Seven tickets filed petitions with 
the Student Government Office 
v~terday for candidacy in the 
senior and junior class officer 
elections to be held Wednesday, 
April 3. 
The senior race drew five en­
tries, but the junior election have 
only two. Each ticket is comprised 
of a president , vice president, 
treasurer and secretarv candidate. 
The following have declared 
their candidacy: 
(continued on page 13) 

any student who doesn't wish to participate should be entitled to a full refund "by a convenient mechanism." 
The IriPIRG proposal is now under consideration by the University's administration. Ken Hughes, chief organizer of InPIRG on campus, reported that the administration is now trying to decide upon a method for refun­ding the fee to students who do not support InPIRG. 
Two methods being considered, he said, are a semi-mandatory fee, by which student would be given an opportunity after tuition was paid to pick up a refund, or a "negative check-()ff" system, in which the student would be able to indicate that he did not support InPIRG and withhold his money. 
Hughes urged students to supprot InPIRG . "While most projects InPIRG will undertake will be 
indirectly affecting students, one good example of a hard-hitting issue in which InPIRG was in­volved was the proposed telephone increase," he said. 
InPIRG Action, the group's official new paper, stated that they had saved Indiana telephone users $8.5 million in possible rate in­creases, as well as approximately $10 million saved during the months of hearings when the phone company was forced to delay the 
r:~te. 
Hughes commented that lnPIRG is also launching a grocery store survey which will directly benefit students. He explained that 20 stores in the area will be checked acomparing the prices of 5 basic foods over a 3 to 4 week period. "Results of this comparison," he said, "will be released after Easter." 

Other projects currently slated include: On-campus recycling; a drugstore pricing survey; a campaign against "bait and switch" tactics of car and ap­pliance dealers; and a look into the operations of Standard Oil of In­diana. 

Banding • migrant 
male may to a tong way tv ia$till i1l him the hommo iMt.int:t. l;hret-rint wetldiftg sets from our wry wide $11actioll. 
f:otJJieteset: •• $495••• $550. ~ $311.4. $275. t.$440, 


L-~.-·-··
• 
Friday, March 29, 1974 the observer 
3 

Policy on undergraduate housing unchanged 
Apartments purchased for married students 
by Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter The University has purchased a set of three apartment complexes to ease the present shortage of housing for married Notre Dame students, stated Fr. James Shilts, director of off-campus housing. Built in 1969, the 24 apartments, known as the Roseland Terre apartments, will officially become the University Village-Roseland apartments on April 1. In the past there has been as many as fifty 
people on the University's married students waiting list. 
Fr. Shilts, however, indicated that the purchase is not a change in the University stance toward acquiring additional un­dergraduate housing. 
The difficulties faced by married students searching for adequate housing seemed to warrant the investment in the new buildings, observed Brother Kieran Ryan, assistant vice president of business affairs. In addition the Universitv was offered an attractive price for the deal. 
The new buildings are located one block form the present University Village at 207-217-227 Cripe Street behind the Randall's Inn. Apartments will be avialbale to students beginning August 1. As the leases of the present tenants expire, they will not be renewed so that rooms will be open to students for the fall. 
The apartments, which are carpeted and air conditioned, 
Cook: Stans admits to perjury 
By FREDERICK M. WINSHIP before a New York Federal 
NEW YORK (UPI) -A grand jury in 1973 in testifyingformer chairman of the Securi­about the Robert L. Vesco case. ties and Exchange Commission Under examination by federal testified today that Maurice H. prosecutor John R. Wing,Stans a chief Nixon re-election Bradford Cook said Stans, fund 'raiser, admitted to him former Nixon Secretary of that he had oerjured himself Commerce, told him that he did 


Ward-Phillips lectures 
to feature future fiction 
by Mary Pat Sullivan 
Staff Reporter 

Robert Scholes, author and professor of English at Brown University, will present the Ward-Phillips Lectures during the week of April 1, at 4:15 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Sponsored by the English Department, this year's series is entitled "The Future of Fiction and Fiction of the Future." The topics will be "The Future of Fictional Criticism" Monday, "A Genre Whose Time has Come" Tuesday, "Structural Fabulation" Wednesday, and on Thursday, "The Good Witch of the West". The series will close Friday with a discussion period. 
Scholes' area of interest is the modern novel and his latest work is Structuralism in Literature. His earlier books include The Nature of Narrative and The Gsnulsyotd, which is a history and criticism of Twentieth Century American fiction. 
Patrick Callahan, an English professor here, has some dieas on Scholes subject, fiction's future. 
Today's novels, according to Callahan, are effecting a depar­ture from realism. The Willie 
Loman-type anti-heroes have seen to their , and Roth's become . 
............ 
Complaint may have been one of the last efforts at realism. 
The fiction that is developing today is speculative and future­oriented, some of which can be seen as science fiction with a new angle, according to Callahan. The emphasis, in this developing form of science fiction, is no longer on scientific accuracy (in fact, Callahan points out, science is often seen as dangerous and dehumanizing), but Callahan points are dealing with qustions concerning man's place in the universe. The fantastic setting is, in some stories, merely a backdrop used to infuse an element of haunting wonder, and in others is important for psychological symbolism, he suggests. 
In Callahan's words this new fiction is "a new wave attempting to deal through a symbolic story with the deep needs, emotions, dreams and even weaknesses of man himself." Some works fitting into this category are Sturgin's Venus Plus X, Left Hand of Dar­nkess by Ursula LeGuin, and The Wanting Seed by Anthony Burgess. But these are only a few. 
Beginning this Monday, Scholes will share his own insights into what fiction is and is likely not discuss the Vesco case with Cook until after charges against the financier were filed by the SEC late in 1972. 
Cook testified Wednesday that they had several discussions prior to that date. 
"Brad, let's have one of those conversations that never took place," Cook quoted Stans as telling him. "Lets pretend we talked about going to Haiti. There's no sense in embarrass­ing everybody." 
Cook took the stand again this afternoon after a morning recess in the trial of Stans and former Attorney General on charges of conspiracy, perjury and obstruction of justice for trying to impede an SEC investigation of Vesco's deal­ings in exchange for a $200,000 contribution of President Nix­ons's 1972 re-election campaign. 
Stans" lawyers conferred during the morning on Cook's Wednesday testimony. 
include one bedroom, a living room and a kitchen. Any full-time, married student is eligible for occupancey. Priority however, will be given to graduate and law students. No faculty or staff members will be allowed in the new lodging. 
The new apartments have only one bedroom and are intended for married students without children. The present 108 University Village apartments which have two bedrooms each give prirority to students with children. ­
Under the University's direction the apartments will be offered to Notre Dame students at sub­stantially lower rates than those paid by present tenants to Portage Realty which built and owned the buildings. Applications for the rooms will soon be available from John T. Lynch the manager of UniverSity apartments or form the off-campus housing office. 
I 
I-


w ND 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 

Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty ND+SMC Staff 
'150 


THE HOMECOMING 
Harold Pinter's disturbing, bizarre comedy Mar. 26, 27, 28, 29,30 at 8:30pm Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
l~tf \ltf)H SllfWfllT (0MPAN'I' Of1t()IT llo4f(HIG.A.N 481?6 


Love tap. 
From one beer lover to another. 
·.·-·,,.Y-/.'_ ..... "'~ '• . ' 

the observer Friday, March 29, 1974 
~------~~~~~~~~------------~~~~~~~~ 
Of impeachment committee 
}_ 

Senator Griffin 
"It seems to me that it is in

By JANE DENISON 
the national interest and in the

WASHINGTON <UPI) -As­
interest of fairness to get to the

sistant GOP Leader Robert P. 
Griffin, conceding the prospect of President Nixon's impeach­ment is "much greater today" than a month or two ago, Thursday urged the House Judiciary Committee to speed its inquiry in the interest of fairness. 
truth, to get to the facts as quickly as possible," Griffin said in a floor speech. 
He called on the committee, which is investigating whether grounds exist to impeach Nixon, to permit the Presi­dent's lawyers to be present at 


I heard that there is to be a very good seminar on Creative Writing at Indiana University at South Bend very soon. Can you tell me what it is and when it starts? 
( ' 
The Creative Writing Seminar will be held tomorrow at 
IUSB, with coffee and registration beginning at 8:00 
am. It will be in room 158 of the North Side West Building. Among the lectures are: "Workshop on Form," "Film & Workshop on the Image " "Storytelling," "Nonfiction Fiction," and "Science: 'A Creative Art?" The seminar will be free and bus transportation is available through the regular South Bend Bus Service. To get there, take the 6:57 am Bendix bus from the Circle. At the terminal, take the North Side bus to Mishawaka Avenue. 
When is The Godfather playing? 
The only dates which "they" permitted it to be shown is on April1 &2. It has two showings each day-at 6:30 and 10:00 pm and costs one dollar, in Washington Hall. 
When and where will the Anthropology Department 
have its "Meet Your Major" meeting? 
The session will meet in the Senior Bar at 8:00pm, on 
April 2. 
Police raid at Nickies held one year ago today 
By Art Ferranti Victory March to unlocking the Observer Historian door to the paddy wagon, greeted 
It was one year ago today that each arrested student as he or she the South Bend Police stage their left the bar. infamous raid on Nickies. Twenty­Approximately forty students six Notre Dame and St. Mary's attempted to bail out their students spent the night of March comrades that night at the police 29, 1973 in the confines of the South station but were asked to leave. Bend police department jail cells. The males were·released at 11:00 
Twenty-four students were the following morning if bail was charged with being "minors in a posted but the females released tavern", a misdemeanor; and hours earlier, after having over­two with disorderly conduct. All crowded cells. 
,, were released the following Nickies was open the next night morning on $50 bail each. The but considerably less crowded. "minors" subsequently paid a fine The Alcoholic and Beverage of approximately $39, one of the Commission had nothing to do with disorderly students was also fined, the raid, the police havingaecided and the other was acquitted. to initiate the action due to com­Nickies was closed as the police plaints from nearby residents of entered. The police checked outside drinking and bottle identification cards as the throwing. The fining of the "ND­students left, arresting sixteen SMC 26" took place in court weeks males from Notre Dame and ten later. Notre Dame and St. Mary's females from St. Mary's. Various themselves did not place further antics from the crowd that disciplinary measures on the Thursday night, ranging from the students. 
THE ROMA 
welcomes our Notre Dame & St. Mary's friends 
your host, FRANK ANASTASIO 
*PIZZA* ITAllAN FOOD *LIQUOR 
1 Appearing this weekend for your dancing pleasure· "Low . 

Rent" (f~om Mishawaka!). Live music 4 nites a week: We're unfll4 a.m. on weekends (for late nite munchies). or deliveries call 234-3258 
19 N. Michigan Avenue 
owntown~Bend {next Jo .Morris Clltlc~ _. . . . _...... . 

urges quicker 
its meetings and to cross­reasons. examine witnesses. The com­Griffin said he had not talked mittee has reached no decision with anyone at the White House on a White House request to let about his speech, but had Nixon's lawyers participate in mentioned it to the ranking the inquiry. Republican on the House 
Later, to reporters, the Judiciary Committee, Rep. Michigan Republican said that Edward Hutchinson of Mi­by permitting White House chigan, at the regular weekly Watergate lawyer James D. St. breakfast of the Michigan Clair to cross-examine wit­congressional delegation this nesses at Judiciary Committee morning. meetings, it might "significant­Griffin told the Senate that ly shorten the process by cross-examination is the tradi­making it unnecessary to have tional means of "getting the a trial in the Senate." facts out on the table" and the 
If the House votes to impeach right should be afforded the a public official-the equivalent President's lawyers at this of an indictment-the Senate stage of the impeachment must conduct a trial on the inquiry. charges. "Isn't it in the interest of 
"Th~n you obviously feel we everyone to find out as early as are headed for a trial in the possible whether a trial in the Senate?" Griffin was asked. Senate is constitutionally neces­
"Well, I would have to sary?" Griffin asked. concede the likelihood seems He said he "hoped it would much greater today than it did not be necessary" later for the a month or two ago," he Senate to have to decide replied, declining to give his whether the procedures fol-
Visiting poet Sewell gives SMC English talks 
educational ideas and experiences by Leanne Jacques today.
Elizabeth Sewell, poet and Born in India, Sewell laterauthor, is currently conducting a moved to England. She receivedseminar on "Magic as a Poetic B.A., M.A. and PhD. degrees from Mode"-a two week English mini­

Cambridge University. She has
course running from March 20 to 
received honorary degrees from
April 3. 
St. Peter's College, New Jersey,
The class meets Monday through 

and Fordham University, New
Friday at 12: 15 in Stapleton lounge 
York and has been the recipient
and is open to the public. 
of numerous fellowships.
Authors examined in this 
Sewell's published critical works 

seminar are Shakespeare, 
include "The Structure of Poetry,"
Marlowe, and Sir Francis Bacon. 
"The Field of Nonsense", "The
Sewell believes there is a "great 

Orphic Voice: Poetry and Natural 
poetic and magic 
History", and "The Human
world ... constructed of images." 
Metaphor." She has published
Sewell explains, "This is the world 
three novels: "The Singular
in which all poets have lived and 
Hope", and "Now Bless Thyself",
want to be true to." 
and two books of poetry, "poems,
She will give a lecture for the 

SMC faculty members on her 1947-1961", and "Signs and Cities". 
PITTSBURGH®

Meet Your Maior 

PAINTS 
Student Discounts on Latex Wall


ECONOMICS 
Paints 
Home Decor Center

Sunday, March 31 
College square 
721 W. McKinley 
Mishawaka, Ind.

8 P.M. 
Ph. 256-1511 Open Mon-Fri 8-6

Memorial Library lounge 
Sat -8-4 

The American Character Series 


Tom Noel 
as MARK TWAIN 4T HOME 
Stnlay,March31S: 
Washington Hall-800rm Admsm-$1.00 Dance&Dnuna Patrms Free 
-....'._ ........ ' ..... . 
•. I ~ I # .., • f. " # •. ~ <t " •., "• I '~ ~ • I' 


'( 
! 

inquiry 
lowed by the House were fair 
Chairman Peter Rodino jr. 
D:N.J., of the Judiciary Com­
mittee had no immediate 
comment. The committee has 
no meetings scheduled this 
week in its impeachment
inquiry. 
Smoking ban proposed for 


U.S. airlines 
WASHINGTON <UPI> Legislation has been introduced in the House to ban smoking on commercial airline flights in the United States. 
Sponsored by Rep. Peter N. Kyros, D-Maine, and four others, the bill requires that "on all commercial domestic airline flights, smoking no longer be permitted in any form." 
Kyros, who occasionally smokes a pipe, said he introduced the legislation be­cause of recent reports indicat­ing cigarette smoke may be as dangerous to nonsmokers as to smokers. 
"In essence, when a person lights up a cigarette on an airplane-an environment over which the other passengers have no control-it is everybo­dy's business," Kyros said. · 

-·-. __, 
. _..,.­
-­
,. 
-,L----~___._. 
Friday, March 29, 1974 the observer 
In Manhattan 
Greats attend services offered for Revson 
By MARY McGUIRE 
NEW YORK <UPI) -Peter Revson, the millionaire's son who became one of the greatest racing drivers in the world, was eulogized Thursday as "a man of skill and courage" at funeral services attended by some of the greatest names in racing and a grieving Marjorie Wallace, 1973 Miss World. 
"Peter's greatest virtue was perseverance. And what he honored most was a gent­leman," former driver Roger Penske told mourners at All Souls Unitarian Church in Manhattan. 
"He was a man of skill, courage and accomplishment. He was truly his own man." 
Miss Wallace, 20, of In­dianapolis, the first American to win the Miss World contest, was composed and dry-eyed in a green dress, sitting in the front row during the services. 
Nearby sat Revson's bereft parents, who had seen the sport of professional road racing take the lives of both their sons. 
Revson was wearing a gold locket from Miss Wallace with the cryptic words "If Not for Me-Marji" when his car smashed into a steel guard rail at a road racing circuit outside Johannesburg, South Africa, last Friday. 
Penske, Cleveland executive Roger Lysle and racing journal­ist Leon Mandel gave public praise to the 35-year-old Rev­son, whose body lay in a closed casket heaped with greenery and banked with yellow and white flowers. 
"His life was a tribute in itself," Lysle said. "One of the newspapers called him a 'playboy racer'. A racer he was but a playboy he wasn't. He was a true athlete." 
Lvsle recalled that after 

Charityauction to be held 
.... 
'. 

by Mary Janca 
Staff Reporter tomorrow at 10 a.m. in St. Mary's 
Tickets to the Beach Boys and O'Laughlin Auditorium in the Rare Earth concerts are among Muscular Dystrophy campaign. the items to be auctioned Local businessmen are donating 
Ford vvarns U.S. of 
internat '1 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Vice President Gerald R. Ford warned Thursday that unless the United States develops sufficient power reserves at home, it risks continued "eco­nomic and political pressure" from suppliers abroad. · 
He also chided the "voices of doom and gloom" who predict­ed dire effects from the Arab oil embargo and who have been sharply critical of the Nixon administration's handling of the energy crisis. 
"We did not panic," Ford said. "We did not freeze. We are not in a depression. The lights are on. Gasoline is available in reasonable quan­tities. 
"We made a policy decision last fall. We decided to preserve jobs and essential services ... America chose be­tween unemployment lines and gas lines. I am pleased that we made the "right choice. We got through the winter with a minimum of suffering." 
Ford told the 38th annual meeting of the Mobile Homes Manufacturers Association that t.hP nation now must commit 
'• 

pressure 
itself totally to "Project In­dependence" -the goal of achieving energy self-sufficien­cy by the 1930s. 
"Instead of allowing depend­ence on Arab imports to grow, we must develop our own capacity for energy self­sufficiency," Ford said. "Until we achieve this goal, the United States will risk potential embargoes and price increases. 
"Our options are obvious. We take the necessary actions to develop our natural resources. Or we subject ourselves to the continuous possibility of eco­nomic and political pressure." 
Ms. Rawlfns 
found dead 
LOS ANGELES <UPI) Actress Judy Rawlins, former wife of singer Vic Damone, was found dead by her 5-year-old daughter Thursday, two days after Damone announced his engagement to marry for a 
(continued on page 15) 

NOW RENTING 
c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:
M + SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOMu APARTMENTS 
+ AIR CONDITIONING
s 
+ DISHWASHER +RANGE 
v 
+ REFRIGERATOR + GARBAGE DISPOSAL I + TENNIS COURT 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROME CAMPUS! 
"APARTMENTS WITH
w 
THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south bend· 
brand new items for the auction,·-.----:~::;:~;;:;::-~~:=;~~;;;::~:::~S;:::~--1
such as radios, stereos, ukuleles, I 
furniture, golf balls, duffel bags, . and gift certificates, accordng to Kathy Hessert, student co­ordinator of the Muscular Dystrophy drive in South Bend. 
Other items up for auction in­clude crafts, art and needlework, an antique sewing machine and two full two-gallon gasoline cans. 
"St. Mary's student body," Hessert stated, "is sponsoring the auction which is part of the total muscular dystrophy drive for '74." 
"Proceeds for the auction will be divvied up among student organizations on campus, such as Revson 's brother Doug was killed in 1967 preparing for a race in Denmark, "Peter went out to race again and won. 
"The greatest tribute we can give to Peter is to go out from this service and pursue our own goals." 
Mandel, publisher of Auto World Magazine, said Revson had become a hero-figure to Mandel's own son. 
"Peter was a model for everyone," he said. "Peter always said that to persevere is the greatest thing a man can do." 
Revson's father and stepmo­ther, Mr. and Mrs. Martin Revson, his mother, Mrs. Julie Phelps Revson, and his sisters Julie Ann and Jennifer, were seated in the front of the church. 
Revson's mother wiped her eyes during the eulogies. Both sisters wept quietly. The elder Revson was stoic and composed but hugged friends and rela­tives emotionally after the service. 
Also attending were Mark Donohue, 1972 Indianapolis 500 winner and Dan Gurney, to whom Revson finished second in the 1971 Indianapolis race. 
Donohue said Revson's repu­tation as a "playboy" mil­lionaire was "a great injustice." 
"Nobody ever applied them­&elves any harder to succeeq in what he did," he said. 
Dr. Walter Kring of All Souls presided at the services. Revson was buried Thursday afternoon in the family mauso­leum at Hartsdale, N.Y., next to the body of his brother. 
Pallbearers were drivers Skip Scott, Matt Forielli and Pen­ske; and Mandel, Lysle and Connecticut racing promoter Jam Haynes. 



HOUISo MON • TUES • 11tUit • Pll 'AM.S..PM 
WED • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPIZI'E WI!CrAW 
SRYICE
RoGERS All fH DI.'S I'IESCAIPTIOHS H0N0ar



Optical e..lt 
219-7109
lOOft AlWILL • OWNH 


the dorms and the tennis and t...lil••ii!llll!!!!~========:f:!:!=::::=:;:=~
fencing teams," she said. 1 
This allocation, Hessert ex-. plained, will give each organization some initial funding with which to begin its own muscular dystrophy drive. At the end of the campaign, a $1000 scholarship will be awarded to the organization that has raised the most money, she continued. 
. Between $1200 and $1500 is ex­
pected to be raised at the auction, 
she added. 
Auctioneers will include Dr. Mark A. Bambanek, St. Mary's chemistry professor, and WRBR disc jockey Kevin O'Neil. 
The campaign theme, 'Come Togetper ,' symbolizes a united community effort-students, residents, and business-and we hope everyone will join with us in this worthwhile project, Hessert concluded. 
THE OBSERVER 

NOW HIRING FOR THE POSITION OF BUSINESS MANAGER 
* APPLICANTS MUST BE ACCOUNTANCY MAJORS * 
send resume to editor, box q, notre dame, before april 3. 
MEET YOUR MAJOR 
w 
Speech & Drama :r: NO Theatre Arts (General) ~ (Dance) Speech 
SMC Film/Broadcasting 
Inter-personal 
Speech Education communication Department of Speech and Drama 

AFTERNOON SOCIAL 
When? Sunday, March 31 at 2:00P.M. Where? Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, St. Mary's 
What? Mime Show: Peter And The Wolf; Tour of Broa~casting Studio; Refreshments Why? Opportunity for prospective majors to meet faculty & get aquainted with program 
... ...____ j 

-, . .-.-~~ ................. ~-·~. -~·-·-,.~ ··-...... -~ 


the observer Friday, March 29, 1974
6 




Forrester lecture set lor April 3 
Dr. Jay W. Forrester, a renowned authority in industrial dynamics and a pioneer in the development of high speed digital computers, will discuss "Engineering During the Tran-
Republicans gather together to 'Worry about Watergate effects 
By ROBERT KIECKHEFER 
CHICAGO <UPl) -Most of the Republican Party's leading ~ 976 presidential hopefuls were expected in town for a weekend Midwestern GOP "leadership conference" and to worry together about Watergate. 
In between their efforts to promote their own candidacies, the White House hopefuls planned to spend time figuring out how any of them can overcome the handicap of Watergate and lead their party to victory two years from now. 
Vice President Gerald R. Ford, California Gov. Ronald Reagan and former New York Gov. Nelson Rockefeller all are scheduled to speak at confer­ence meetings Saturday. For­mer Texas Gov. John Connally is also expected. 
Illinois' own Sen. Charles Percy, who has an eye on the presidency himself, was to open the meeting with a cocktail party and a welcoming address before the expected 1,000 conferees from 13 Midwest 
Black Arts Festival 
I 
Friday, March 29 Speaker-Mr. Walter Johnson, Black Attorney. N.D. Law School 
7:00 p.m.-Black Law Student Association-Sponsors Dance featuring "Kool People"-Stepan Center 10:00p.m.to2:00a m (aftersets)Admlsslon$1 
Saturday, March 30 
Seminar sponsored by the Black Law Student Assoclatlon­
i. 
10:00 a.m. at the Law School Art Presentation by Mr. Donald Turner of Indiana State University, Fiesta Student lounge, LaFortune Student Center 
1:30 p.m. 
l 
~ Kuumba Workshop-dramatlcal lecturer In the form of a "Ritual" including poetry, music and a rapsesslon-featured performer Val Gray Ward 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. Library" Auditorium African Jazz Concert--9ary Bartz NTU Troop Stepan Center 
t 8:30 p.m. Admission $2.00 
Sunday, March 31
f 
Statesman-The Honorable Charles W. Diggs Jr., 13th 
district Michigan 2:00p.m. Library Auditoriumf "Journey Into Blackness"-a performance by Voices, Inc., a ~· Black musical Theatre O'Laughlln Auditorium, St. Mary's I College 7:30p.m. Admission $3.00 Student with ld $2 Children 
I 
under 12 $1 
Tickets Avlalable at Student Union Ticket Office and Urbant League of South Bend 
! 
I 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
r 
( 
$695 $895
( 
Single occupancy Double occupancy
I 
( 
' 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. Thru June 15th, 1974 except May 18 and 19. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555
i 
l 
3 miles North of the Tollroad Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
sition to Economic Equilibrium" atBp.m. Wednesday,April3,in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 
The free, public lecture is the fourth in the College of Engineering's Centennial Lecture 
states. The states are Illinois 
Indiana, Iowa, Kansas Mi­
chigan, Minnesota, Mis'souri, 
Nebraska, North Dakota Ohio 
South Dakota, West v'irgini~ 
and Wisconsin. 
Percy has been assessing his 
presidential chances publicly 
for several months and is 
expected to make the most of 
this weekend's forum. 
Percy reportedly plans to tell delegates in his welcoming speech that GOP faces a "crisis of leadership... the President and the leader of our party is in danger of being forced from office." 
He said he will tell delegates that the party could absorb a "potential disaster" in the 1974 and 1976 elections unless good candidates-without the taint of Watergate-are recruited at local and state levels. 
The chance for a direct comparison among several con­tenders for the GOP nomina­tion, however, was expected to overshadow any discussion of 
party presidential strategy. 
Series which commemorates 100 years of engineering education at Notre Dame. 
Forrester, who is the Ger­meshausen Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, holds the basic patent 
Most of those attending the conference will be moderate or conservative Republicans influ­ential in the affairs of their home state's GOP organization. 
President Nixon is not expect­ed to attend. 
Before the gathering formally gets underway, delegates will hear a forum discussion on the progress of the GOP's "rule 29, committee. That panel is 

~:~~~s~nt~~:~~lif~~s w~~ei~s:~~ ..---T-h--e---P--1-=--a--y--house 
minority groups at the 1976 national convention. 
Deadly parasite 
is for the birds 
BOSTON <UPI) -A deadly 
parasite is threatening the blue 
jay population in Massa­
chusetts and Connecticut. 
The Massachusetts Audubon 
Society. reported scores of birds 
are dying in eastern sections of 
the state and Connecticut. 
Autopsies performed at the
University of Massachusetts 


~:w e~;~:~spa~:sit~~rri~~: l!;l~B!I2JJJ Starts TODAy!
Where b1rds Can nO longer 
MISHAWAKA AVINUI AI J.OII< 
swallow, and also blocks the 
trachea, making it increasingly difficult for them to· breath. Death comes within a few days.
The Smithsonian Institution for Short Lived Phenomenon at Cambridge, Mass., said it has been unable to determine "how the blue jays are picking up the parasite or how its passed from one bird to another." 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Erratum 
There are "plenty of $5.50 seats for the Beach Boys Concert, ac­cording to Rich Donovan, Chair­man of the Student Union concerts. 

A misprint in yesterday's ob­server stated that the $5.50 tickets were sold out. On the the contrary, Donovan stressed that there are many tickets left including the $5.50 and $3.50 seats. 
IIIHUIIIIIII.IIIIII_IIU__
1 
on the standard "memory" device 1946 to 1951 and was responsible for for digital computers. His current the design and construction of interests are in applying industrial Whirlwind I, one of the first high­dynamics principles to urban and speed digital computers. As world problems. Industrial director of the school's Lincoln dynamics is an experimental and Laboratory from 1952 to 1956, he quantitative basis for designing guided the planning and technical structure andpoliciesto enhance an design of the U.S. Air Force SAGE organization's growth and <Semi-Automatic Ground En-stability. vironment) system for continental 
In his book "Urban Dynamics," air defense. Forrester presented a theory of Forrester received an honorary urban interactions and analyzed doctorate from the University of failures and proposals in urban Nebraska in 1954 and was named 

policies Most recently, in "World professor of management at M.I.T. 
Dynamics" the MIT professor has in 1956. He was appointed Ger­

applied the technique to examining meshausen Professor in 1972. 
ti)e world problems. Forrester is a member of the 

After graduating with distinction National Academy of Engineering from the University of Nebraska in and a fellow of the American 1939, Forreser came to M.I.T. as a Academy of Arts and Sciences. He research assistant in electrical has received many awards in-engineering. He received a eluding the Institute of Electrical master's degree in electrical and Electronics Engineers' Medal engineering from M.I.T in 1945. of Honor and the Danish Academy 
Forrester directed M.I.T.'s of Technical Sciences' Valdemar Digital Computer Laboratory from Poulson Gold Medal. 
525 N. Hill 
Live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat. 
Happy Hour Mon-Frl. 5-7 pm Drinks are 2 for r 


Fri. &Sat. 

~ 
dance to the great sounds of 

"Detroit" 

=i~iji=~:~ii~~~~======~======~~
ll -· 
3 ACADEMY NOI\IUNA TIONS 
Best Actor-Jack Nicholson 
Best Su t" A t R d Q d 
ppor lnQ C or -an Y uajBest Screen Play 
For time~ and directions, · ca II 288-8488. 1 
With OTIS YOUNG /RANDY UUAilJ /CLIFTON JAMES 


I·' •

~ ........~ :.~·-"'·::~~;:.~:"':~.=~rt..!XP:~r.L~!!~i:.l!t.Afct£gn Jazz_:..; 


Saturday, March 30 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
Tickets-$2.00 ·on sale at S.U. Ticket Office . . . . also available at the door 
Space Kadette 
Yes, you've heard about it, 
doubt tossed it around in the old cranium for some time now. Yet, who, in truth really knows Cosmic Reality? Well, I know it, and because the secrets of the stars are not so easily unmasked by cosmically ignorant entities as you are, it has become my undertaking to educate you. Please un­derstand, that while it is not my purpose to demean you for your naivete concerning this matter, it must be realized that a con­siderable amount of condescension must be exercised on my part, to relate to you what I have known so well, for so long. 
Those who are cosmically real derive a kind of radiant energy from the COSMOS (the source of all non-physical reality), equitable perhaps, with an orgasm, only multiplied in intensity like the heat of a thousand suns beating upon a single desert rat (if you could coax a desert rat to stand alone and naked at the foot of a thousand suns). How does one become cosmically real? Essentially, one does not become cosmically real~ one simply IS cosmically real, born with a rocket-like mind capable of perceiving astra­sensitivity, which of course, emanates from the COSMOS. Cosmically real entities, in lusting for the climax of Cosmic Reality, will savor every morsel of galactic ecstasy until a oneness is 
~chieved with the COSMOS; until all that has been known is seen, but more importantly, all that has to be seen is known. Once the rapture of reality is achieved, there is no turning back, for the trip has commenced. The celestial traveler now takes to flight, fueled with liquified natural experience, destined for a timeless exploration of the majestic zodiac and as you might have imagined, guided through the spacial darkness in a protective tunnel of magenta light, courtesy of the comets. 
I was once a cosmic space traveler, until my orgasmic ad­venture was terminated in flight by those who would rape the sky with rocket ships. I warn you, physical penetration of the virgin skies will invoke the wrath of the COSMOS. It should be noted here, that, as the COSMOS is considered to be somewhat of a top banana in the field of COSMOS-ing, a poorly timed wrath invocation is generally considered to be in bad taste. While in my heart I am certain that I will again be cosmically real and consequently regain my celestial status as an Official Cosmic Space Captain, I know also that Cosmic Reality is not a dime-store commodity. It has therefore been necessary for me to realize the following: it is possible to Simulate Cosmic Reality to a fairly accurate degree through the correct doses of non­electric lightning, laced in Moon­tunes; cautiously selected astra­companions; and mind-messing materials of the chemical, alcoholic or alpha-electronic modes. Secondary forms of simulated reality (for momentary flashes of what it's all about> in­clude the use of an official COSMOS whistle ring, the display of an "I like COSMOS" button on clothing adjacent to a personal area of your body, strict adherance to the wishes of your parents and membership in the nationally recognized Brotherhood of Intergalactic Handlebar Moustache Cultivators.Apply these tools as the COSMOS would have you apply them, and yours will be the key to unlock that which you would not have locked. Blaspheme the COSMOS in any manner and the physical reality 
upon which you have based your qualid existence, will rise up and reduce you to the stupor. · of. a 
---
... 
Republica, hence sucking dry your brain of what little reality it had previously possessed. 
disclosed by John J-Balle Queens, New York 

I I 
-Raindrops Keep Falling on My " 
To all streakers: 
At exactly 11:53 on the morning 

of Wednesday, March '1:1, two 
Notre Dame freshmen performed 
a most daring and unholy deed. To 
the shock and .delight of 400 
students, these gentlemen 
streaked Emil T. Hoffman's fresh­
man chemistry class. 
Now it is an admirable feat in 

itself to have violated the fresh­
man Dean's inner sanctorum in 
bread daylight and to have 
escaped alive. But it is the purpose 
of this story to demonstrate that 
there was more to the now­
infamous streak than meets the 
eye. For you see, Butch Cassidy 
and the Sundance Kid, (as they are 
affectionalely known) are no 
amateur thrill-seekers. They are 
professionals. And their entire 
operation was characterized by 
flair and flawless execution 
commensurate with their ex­
perience . 
But let me start at the beginning. Butch and the Kid first began entertaining thoughts about the streak on the previous Tuesday evening. Convinced of the feasibility oftheir plan, they called a formal strategy session, which was attended by six hand-picked accomplices. A battle-plan was drawn up, and each participant was instructed to memorize his assignment and to report for a final briefing at 11:00 a.m. on the day of the streak. At 11:31 Butch and the Kid arrived in the lobby. On signal they removed their trench coats and slipped over their heads their respective trademarks, the black executioner's mask and the nylon stocking . The entrance door was snapped open and a roomful of heads turned to see what audacious student dare enter Emil's class so late and so abruptly. But it was the blazing bodies of Butch and the Kid that burst in to meet their gazes. The 
::lass' horrified expres:uval was exquisite to witness, and it's rumored that even Emil was seen to gasp. But alas, it was over in a flash, as a good streak should be. Butch and the Kid found the side door open, according to plan, and barely slowed down to grab their waiting coats as they bolted away. With a final touch of execution, the accomplices dispersed, leaving no trace. 
At a modest celebration held later that day, Butch expressed regret that Emil may not have read the greeting "Hi Emil" which had been inscribed on his fleeting derriere. But one thing is for sure. When Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid strike again, such small touches of class shall not be overlooked. 
The Hole-in-the-Wall Gang 
In Defense of 
the Wizard 

Dear Editor: 
As an alumnus of UCLA I would like to congratulate North Carolina State on its hard-earned and well­deserved NCAA Championship <I would only prefer that it had been Notre Dame). However, I do take exception to the remarks of Dr. J. Michael Quill (observer, March '1:1) regarding the Bruins and Coach John Wooden. 
I don't know how many times Dr. Quill has been to Pauley Pavillion <probably never) but I cannot recall any instance where the opposing players were booed as they were introduced. To the contrary, an outstanding opposing player has always been well received by the crowd when leaving the floor in the waning minutes of a game. 
I would wish that Dr. Quill would document his attacks against the players as individuals. I would like to know how well he is acquainted with Bill Walton to accuse him of "supreme arrogance" and im­maturity? The fact is that Coach Wooden has long had a policy of shielding his players from the demands of the press, especially one of the stature of Walton who would be constantly besieged The players are, after all, students 
first and not public celebrities. 
Friday, March 29, 1974 
One just needs to recall how often Lew Alcindor was treated as a travelling freak show. 
As for his derisive comments regarding Wooden's ability as a coach, need he be reminded that he has won 9NCAA Championshops in 11 years with teams that have had varying degrees of natural talent <who remembers Fred Slaughter of Jack Hirsch?). And the great majority of UCLA players are recruited right from Southern California. 
It also seems that Dr. Quill is confusing the well-respected principles that Coach Wooden employs in teaching his student athletes with occasional game­time tactics that are designed to relieve the pressures on his players, and which constitute an art practiced no less by such 



PRE· 
7
the observer 
successful coaches as AI McGuire and Bobby Knight. Rather, UCLA has always exhibited a high degree of class in its competition++ how often has it gone into a stall to protect a lead? 
He may pontificate if he will abou:. "clean living " and Tommy Curtis' ghetto language, but Dr. Quill is himself guilty of some cheap shots. 
Jack Joseph 
Grad, Government 
more P.O. Box Q 
on page 8 


CANA 



.. 
j 
1 
1 1 
I 
l ~ 
I 
I 
Journey into Blackness 
Sunday, March 31 
·7:_Jo-O'Laughlin Aud. Students $2.00 Adults $3.00 Tickets on sale at S.U. 
and at the door 
Black Arts Festival 
A special program for NotreDame students (and their partners) who are preparing for .marriage. 
April 21, 28, May 5 · 

SIGN UP IN CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICE 

.Ticket Prices: Tickets on sale: 
Ble•chers .......,;.... $3.50 I NOTRE bAME,A. C. C. Mon-S•t 9 to S Lower Aren• ·+..54.50 obertlori's South Bend & Concord M•ll 
'M•In Floor ••••••,.•• SS.50 
t. Jo..,.. B•nk -•nd br•nclles 

L09e ................~ ••• $5.50 
irst B•niJ -M•in office only

Pl•"orm .........l ...ss.50 lklalirt T~uth
t 
', 
RARE EARTH 
and special guest 
Rory Gallagher 



8 
{ 
I 
Coedcheercation 
Dear Editor: 
\ I was in Chicago on Saturday March 16 for the St. Patrick's Day Parade. Since I have been a Notre 
I ~ Dame fan for 20 years I was pleased to see a float bearing the cheerleading squad from ND. Unfortunately alii saw was girls! As you know ND was an all male institution for years until it recently went coed. Male cheerleaders were a tradition but it was only fair to allow girls to
~. become cheerleaders once they began admitting them to the school. But why is Notre Dame ignoring the men at their school? One example of this is the ab­sence of male cheerleaders par­ticipating in the cheering at football and basketball games. The women are on center court or the 50 yard line doing their porn porn routines while the men are allowed to conduct a few cheers on the sidelines. The final straw was seeing the Notre Damecheerleading squad on the St. Patrick's Day Parade float represented by only half a squad. I am proud to see that Notre Dame is in tune with Women's Liberation but Male Liberation should not be ignored. A coed school should have a coed cheerleading squad but I really think you must give equal time for equal talent. 
Sincerely, Kathleen Schlager 
The Arkie Blues 
Dear Editor: 
l 
Now that Spring has finallyarrived at du Lac it is time for a silent minority to speak out. During the Mardi Gras busing issue many a young lass protested that Notre Dame men were a figment of someone's imagination, they were never seen outside of the library. <They failed to mention which one.) But I have an an­nouncement for all those poor, lonely Badin-ites and Walsh~ttes. 
Girls of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's! Your ship has come in.
f The Architecture building will be occupied with so many tf malesophomores and fifth-year students from now until Easter
t 
( break that any attempt to count them would be fool-hardy. So how
r 
I 
l 
!
( 
11 
v 
'WILL, GEE, MR. PRESIDENT, IT'S NICE OF YOU TO OFFER TO CAMPAIGN ON MY BIHA&.F ­lUI DON'T YOU HAVE SOMETHING TO DO IN CHINA OR RUSSIA OR SOMEPLACE •••.,. 
about it girls? How about giving in recent months no ·lack of issu~ yourself and my fellow arkies a on campus to which to accress ou break? Come on over and talk to attention, issues which need to be us. One cannot imagine how hard discussed and resolved. The it is to spend seven nights a week literary masterpieces offered to staring at a drawing on a desk. us, however, generallyindicatethat Help us overcome the evils of we have deveiQpednearsightedness monotony! We won't be hard to thathas limited our vision to the find, just look for a bright orange: environs of the Dome, the Library, wall in the basement and we'll be the ACC, and Dillon Hall (I say this there. We will be "working" there only partly because I have the everynight until Easter break, 24 distinction of being an R.A. in hours a day (probably longer!) Dillon.) Our problems at N.D. 
You'll be a welcome change betray many failings _large and 
from talking to other fellow arkies Piease! 
One of the many designing a chapel in steel, T.S. '77 
Rennovation? 
Editor: 
Your editorial "Keep Pushing" (for La Fortune renovation) solicited responses to your general approval of the 

.Administrations's plans to spend $250,000 to upgrade the present .student center. I agree the ·students should "keep pushing" as Iyou advise, but not for r~novation. A piecemeal plan to Improve a facility that will remain far short of filling the social needs of an enlarged student body, however much is spent on renovation, is not what's needed. What is needed instead is a completely new facility that will release some of the pressure on the ~":er-crowded halls, a first-rate facility worthy of a first-rate university with a first­
rate student body, paying first-rate tuition. There is scarcely a university or college in the entire country that has less. ~~equate facilities for student activities than the present La Fortune Center, and $250,000 or $800,000 will not change that situation. 
Name withheld upon request 
• R f
Myopta ampan 
Dear Editor: 
As a recent Observer editorial noted, this year the members of the Notre Dame community have been rather prolific in voicing their opinions via the forum of their small ; but our obsessive preoc­cupation with them is even more ominous. Too easily do we forget that we belong to a world which stretches out beyond the gates of this university. 

Thisbreastbeating was triggered by a recent newspaper article concerning mim arrested for draft evasion when he returned from Canada to attend his father's funeral There are thousands of others like him across the border, cut off from thei homes because they stood up for their convictions before the truth about Vietnam 
became fashionable. If it were possible to rate our coldness and insensitivity to the suffering in this nation, then our reaction <or lac of one) to those who evaced the draft would probably take a very high place in the polls. This is true, sadly, even among people like myself who, but for the right lottery number or factor or job would now be spending our time either out of the country or in prison--assuming, or course, that we would have acted on our words when to do so would have cost something 
Those in exile, though, deserve and need more than individual or communal guilt trips. They need us to remember them, to pray for them, to get the doors of this country opened again for them. Somewhere in Washington there are people who can make amnesty a reality, but who won't do so unless we apply the pressure. The power of the pen, for example, can be unleashed in more directions than merely the pages of the Observer. 
That pressure requires time, effort, and concern, three com­
modities which havebeen in short supplyfor this cause-and for quite a fdw others. Myppia has more extensive side effects than we'd 
like to believe. 
Peace David Polich 
~RIIil;~alar Riley 
-~ The Club K 
ken tairauard 

Well, the weekend has finally arrived. After straggling in from the last of the Friday classes, I begin my usual end-of-the week ritual of taking my shoes off, grabbing a bottle of Bud from the refrigerator, and reclining on the couch for a few hours. Ah, the joys of a Friday afternoon! As the tensions of the recently completed week begin to eke out of me, my thoughts begin to turn to the prospects for the up­coming weekend. While my mind continues to focus on what is in stors for me and the guys this weekend, one of my roommates enters the room. He rushes to thestereoand throws on his favorite disc. He 'then rushes to the refrigerator, grabs a can of brew and collapses into an easy chair. After a few gulps of his beer, he stares at the ceiling and says, "Well, what are we gonna do tonight?" "I don't know," I reply, "Let's talk about it with the rest of the guys after supper." 
Following the usual Friday night meal of turkey (with cranberry sauce) and-orfried ocean perch (with tartar sauce), I find myself once again sitting in my room. This time, however, I have been joined by my other roommates as well as the rest of my cronies from the sec­tion. We are all sitting around, wondering what we are going to do this night. Deep down, we all know that we are just sitting here waiting until it is time for us to depart for what seems to the evenings only activity. That activity is, of course, spending the night at Kubiak's. 
Finally, its time to leave and we trek across campus to the highway. After a half-hour has elapsed we finally get picked up. Naturally, this feat was not accomplished without the usual wailing,gnashingof teeth, and accompanying bitter invectives against the numerous un­Christian drivers who have.whizzedpast us. Anyway, we finally arrive at Kube's, presnt our ID's, find a table, and order a few pitchers. 
After the beer has arrived an been distributed among us, each member of out company settles down and begins to scan the room in order to size up; the situation.. The main "ballroom" at Kube's is relatively well-lit. Through the heavy blanket of smoke that hangs under the lights we can see the entire expanse of the room. In the middle is the dance floor , which at this time is filled with a strange variety of of young and old people hopping around (Its supposed to be the polka). At the head of the dance floor we can see the band. What is even more distressing is that we can hear the band(If you've never been to Kube's, take my advice: The Sunday night band is the best, though that's not saying much.) Shifting our glance, we then gaze at the tables which are surrounding us. Some of their occupants are talking, some are singing, some cheering, some are proposing toasts, while still others are merely existing. 
When this visual expedition is finished, we all settle back and begin the festivities. Afew more pitchers are ordered, and we start to sing along with the band. After the band goes on break, we continue our songfest and spring into a rousing rendition of "In Heaven There is No Beer." The drinking songs continue and, as they do, other groups follow our lead. Soon the whole saloon takelt"'on the sound of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. When the band returns and songs have ceased, some of our group decide to do some "hoofing" with the bevy of beauties that are at the other tables. 
All of this revelry continues on into the night until it is time to face the evening's end and the long hitch back. Upon our return to the hall we are met by the corps of fellows who remained behind. Always their question is "How was Kobe's?" Always our answer is "It stunk." 
I wonder how many people really identify with the little vignette I've presented. How often do we go to parties and bars, pretend like we're having a great time, come back, and then start bitching about the lousy social life at Notre Dame? The answer, form what I can see, is that this occurs quite often. It seems that every time we talk about Notre Dame, the crummy social life becomes the topic for discussion. 
Notre Dame is socially stagnant, or so we often conclude. 
OK! So the student center is an archaic crypt. So it takes a buzz saw 

to cut through the red tape of trying to throw a party. These things are 
only incidental hindrences that can be overcome with a certain 
amount of work. It's time we attack the real problem. 
Since the problems of social life deal with people, it only makes 

sense that the solution to the problems also lies with people. Sot let's 
sense thaface it, gang, its up to us to make it better for ourselves. It,s 
time to stop expecting others to plan activities for us, and initiate some 
of our own. 
As I see it our challenge is to be creative in our socialhours.lt is a 

challenge ~hich, for those of us who identify with the "Kubiak syn­
drome" must be worked at in order to be achieved. If we choose not 
to work ~t it then we must give up our right to complaiQ about it. 
I say the~ that it is time to get off our posteriors, become in­

novative and have a good time in our leisure moments. I'm getting 
awfully s'ick of weekends around here ending up with "It stunk." 
the observer 

Night Editor: Bill Brink Assistant Night Editor: Andy Praschak Layout: T~!Tf K~nay, Jim Donathen, Gary Allietta, Maria Gallagher Sports: Greg Corgan, John Fineran, Peggy Lawlor Features: J.R. Baker Pictures: Albert D'Antonio Editorials: Ann McCarry, Ken Girouard Typists: Claire Kelly, Mike Seidel, Howard Halle, Karen Hinks, Joe 
Abell Compugraphic: Joe Abell Night Controller: Joe Abell 
Ernest Hemingway Award for Grace Under Pressure tonight presented to Mr. Sport: Vic Dorr. 

"'"' ·: -.......... _ 


Friday, March 29, 1974 the observer 
9 

Letters Ta A Lonely Ciad 
sex and the single child 

I remember a conversation I once had with a girl in high school, when we were both about 13 years old. We discussed the sexual drives, and how nearly irresistible they seem in their temptations. Sex, we said, was the daydream most often on our minds, and on the minds of our friends. Sexual in­timacy was an exploration we would like to have engaged in, if we had dared. But we didn't dare, because sex was the way you got into deep trouble with God; and the girl could get pregnant, and be thought cheap. The reason a boy wanted to have sex, the girl said, was because he was seHish and had a dirty mind. Mter he had ruined a girl, he would go off and talk about her, and wouldn't have any more to do with her; he certainly would never marry her, She would be considered the high school tramp, and nobody else would want to marry her, either. 
Teased by desires we only half un­derstood. Our conversation itself became kind of a sexual game, until finally, we had worked outselves into a mood ap­proximating rage. "Why," we asked our­selves, "did God make sex into such a dirty trick, then let us be tempted out of our minds to the disaster lurking everywhere in our senses, in the urges that never sleep?" Thus in Maine, in the summer of '41, two children asked themselves an ultimate question, as though they were more touched by the ugliness of sex than they were open to its joy. But there was beauty in our in­nocence, our sincerity, and our shy need of one another for summer-talk. If, a year or two later, we had touched and loved one another, there would have been beauty in the young hungers of our flesh, and a greater innocence than we would ever know again, though the experience in its af­termath would have shattered us. 
Early in life, our sexuality is a wound that troubles us. As a child close to infancy, I experienced deisire; it is almost my earliest memory. It was also a secret I knew I must keep from everyone. I remember being embarrassed because I was naked before my mother, and she teased me about my nakedness. "Oh, mother," I thought to myself in tykish despair, "Don't you un­derstand anything about the things you should never notice, or never speak about?" 
She never did speak of it again. But I was always embarrassed at the ways she assumed I was innocent, because I knew the secret moods of my mind, and the dreams, hiding in my pillow, that I played with every night and morning. 
As I grew older, I became afraid of sin. I would take down from the shelf one of the four volumes of a great family Bible, about the size of a shower mat. I would lay the book on the floor and kneel on it, resting my penitent knees on the very texts that promised mercy. Then, I would ask God in prayer not to damn me forever, and I would vow never again to be the sensuous child. Sometimes I would kneel on those Scrip­tures two or three times in the same mor­ning, when grace failed repeatedly to sustain my fervent vows. 
Later, in high school , I remember when a chum confessed to me that he had com­mitted sexual sins; I knew he wanted me to say if I had committed sexual sins also. Papal inquisitions could not have dragged such secrets out of me, and I told him · nothing. From his confession, I judged him to be a fool; from my denials, he judged me 
to be a eunuch. Today, I am a priest, and he is a Baptist minister. Because of my choice to be celibate, he still judges me to be a eunuch. 
Why does the grown man, then admit 
publicly, the the private sins of the child? Because the man has learned what the child never knew: that sexuality is the way we have of belonging to the brotherhood of all things that live. Except as Franciscan metaphor, the star is not my brother; the rocks are not my sisters. Moonlight is lovely, but it begets no children, and has never needed a father's love. But there is a blood stream in the cosmos, a spirit criss­crossing the universe, making kinsmen of birds and flowers and fish and children. Feathers are woven, fins arefashioned buds come bursting, veins are threaded through flesh as the year renews itself in the whole cycle of life common to meadows, trout streams, nurseries, orchards, oceans, and on the skywalks known to wing. Lambs are suckled in sheepfolds, and there are tigers in jungles at play with their cubs; and to all the begetting, begotten world, man belongs as brother; himself begetting, himself begotten. Unlike the instinctive appetites of animals, or the passionless seeding of sunflowers, man's sexuality is one of the most God-like ways in which he is human . Man begetting, like man begotten, ex­presses, in an intimacy of flesh, his heart's caring and his mind's yearning in a celebration of love like a spin~ff from creation. 
As a man who is neither child nor eunuch, I am grateful for the gift of sexual desire. Celibacy has not wholly quitted the joyful rioting of the eye balls when a girl appears with ankles that could have danced in a chorus. A little while ago, I met a chap in Bermudas; he walked awkwardly, as though his legs were taking off in different directions, like a Jesuit afraid that his right foot will find out that his left foot is doing. I noted with annoyance his knobby knees. Why is it,in the springtime around here, that all the knobby-kneed chaps wear Bermudas, and all the dimple-kneed girls are in pants? I think the Dean of Students should pass a rule making it mandatory for the coeds to wear mini-skirts. Darby and I would get more exercise, if he did. I believe in God because of roses, in kneecaps as on altars. 
I am not writing to you as an old man whose fire is banked, with the thermostat turned down for the night. I may yet be carried off by Beelzebub while harboring an unchaste thought. Concupiscence is treacherous, but it is one of the w~ys we are alive to beauty, and I won't knock it. I don't think God is waiting to zap us for our lapses in sensuality, unless sensuality is what we choose in place of God, with orgasms in place of sacraments. All our lives, I suspect, our sexuality will be demanding attention, like a two-headed guest at a dinner. Sexuality tends to be selfish, and unless we are careful, it can make a hypocrite of our best other virtues. It takes discipline and grace, but we can set our house in order, keeping sexuality as a servant having to rights to play the role of master. 
Once there was a little boy who rested his knees on Scripture and prayed for victory over sin. If he had known God well enough, he would have realized that the sin he was dealing with was only the confusion of a child bewildering by his inner mystery. Once in the Summer of '41, there were two teen-agers who feared that God had given them their sexuality as a trap to damn them. It was not God Whom they needed to fear, but thetheologiesmade up about Him, and the commandments imposed in His name. Theologies and commandments are the system by which well-intentioned men sometimes lay their hangups and self­distrust on the rest of us, as the directions for ruling our lives. 

an evening with mark twain 
When the Dance and Drama Series of the Cultural Arts Commission Presents "An Evening with Mark Twain" on Sunday evening, the audience will be delighted with the humor and wit of Mark Twain per­formed by Tom Noel. 
Mark Twain, alias Samuel Clemens, is well known as the author of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, Connecticut Yankee and Innocents Abroad, just to mention a few. He has also been acknowledged as one of America's best known and well loved humorists. For TWain, humor was a valuable technique which he used to alert his reading audience to see themselves, the nature of society and the world around them. 
Alfred N. Whitehead once said, "Satire is the last flicker of originality in a passing epoch as it faces the onslaught of staleness and boredom." And Twain, writing in the post-Civil War years, an era characterized by emptiness and disilusion, epitomized the satirist. 
It is Twain's biting humor that the audience is treated to in Tom Noel's very convincing portrayal of the man. Appearing onstage dressed in a white suit, vest and shoes which match the whiteness of his unruly head of hair, Noel alternatively slumps comfortably in a chair, ambles around the stage or sits at the piano. Through a series of anecdotes and stories interspersed with singing stints, Noel captivates all with Twain's wit. 
He relates some true stories but also tells some pretty "tall tales," He reminisces about his boyhood on the Mississippi and the annual visits to his grandfather's far­mhouse. His cynicism hits when he begins 
by mary ellen mcandrews 

expressing his not too generous views 
concerning Christianity. For all the good 
that the Bible contains, Twoain also 
believed it was filled with a pack of lies. 
Yet underneath it all, Twain's firm belief 
in a joy of living and the importance of people 
being able to laugh, at themselves and at 
others, is faithfully reporoduced by Noel. 
Supposedly, Twain first began touring 
because he had acquired a number of debts 
from investing in some strange inventions 
which turned out to beunsuccessful. Noel's 
presentation is based on Twain's lecture 
tours and also drawn from Twain's Letters 
from the Earth which was published after 
Twain's death. 

Tom Noel has been touring United States 
colleges, town halls and theatres for the past 
several years charming all as the 
irrepressible Twain. So superb has his por­
trayal been that some critics consider him 
superior to Hal Holbrook's Mark Twain. One 
enthusiastic reviewer wrote, "He is 
humorous, cynical, sacrilegious, bitter and 
oddly sentimental. And make no mistake 
about it, he is Mark Twain." 

Tom Noel comes to this campus with past laurels from the theatre in New York where he played in "Young Abe Lincoln", "The Crucible," and "Of Mice and Men." He has just recently completed a national tour in the Pulitzer prize winning play ·"The Great White Hope." He has also been on television's Hallmark Hall of Fame while his movie credits include "Funny Giri" and 
"The Boston Strangler." 

This Sunday at 8:00p.m. his acting ability will be further confirmed. Throughout the performance you won't stop laughing. 
So don't pass up the opportunity for a thoroughly enjoyable evening-spend it with Mark Twain. 

I 
'i 
10 the observer Friday, March 29, 1974 
a monument to ,, ,. SuperdoDle: man's imagination 
Over the streets named Bourbon and Basin, St. 
Charles and Desire; over the river that's still sung
i· about; over sad jazz erupting into laughter, over the 
;, glory of cuisine by masters, the Superdome rises. 
The Superdome is more than a building or a stadium
' 
or a hall. It is the depository of Louisiana's belief in itself and a budding, exhilarating, moving certainty that tomorrow can be now. 
There is nothing anywhere like it. This golden dome, this new dream, will open in late 1974. And, there is a possibility that Notre Dame will be I part of its dedication. 
I I 'l The storied "Seven Wonders of the World" were conceived and constructed in the ages of antiquity. So wondrous were they, their fame spread throughout the 1 world of their day, and though no trace remains of 
most of them today, their memory still stands as a monument to man's intelligence and ability. Since these fabled wonders were built, man has continued to build many great structures . . . giant dams, tremendous bridges across turbulent rivers, 
~ 
magnificent buildings and temples to his God. These 
I 1 structures have become known far and wide, at­tracting visitors and attention. But, not since the an­cient Seven Wonders of the World has man allowed his imagination to soar to conceive and construct another such wonder ... until the Lousiana Superdome . . It, too, is a monument to man's daring imagination, 
l 
l 
mgenuity, intelligence; it, too, is awesome in size inspiring in its beauty, unique and unsurpassed. Ac: cording to The New York Times, the Louisiana 
Superdome, now under construction in New Orleans, will make all other stadiums in existence as obsolete as R;ome's Colosseum. It is rising into the Skyline like a giant golden mushroom. It is being built by the people of Louisiana and administered by the Louisiana Stadium and Exposition District. 
When completed in late 1974, hopefully in time for the next Sugar Bowl game, when it would be of­ficially opened, the Superdome will rise some 273 feet into the city's skyline. It cost is more than $163 million. No other building on earth equals the Super­dome's 680 feet in diameter. The stadium itself will completely cover 13 acres. It will reach 'n stories at its peak, forming the world's largest room unobstructed by posts, filling over 125 million cubic feet. Some 20,000 tons of steel and 150,000 cubic yards of concrete will support the huge structure. It will require 9,000 tons of air-conditioning and heating to keep the Superdome at a comfortable 72 degrees the year round. 
It is more than merely another stadium, con­siderably more. Differences include movable stands which give it arena capability, a removable turf over hard-surfaced floor, allowing it to be used for a multiplicity of events, and crowning it all, giant screen television. 
When in 1966 the people of Louisiana by over­whelming public referendum created the authority to build and operate the Superdome, they directed that the structure be built to serve the diverse interests and cultural pursuits of a people. Thus, the Superdome was designed as a multi-functional building. 
The concept of the Superdome is as ancient as Rome's Colosseum and as modern as a Telestar Communications Satellite. It is designed, as was the Roman Stadium, for multitudes to view in person live exhibits of athletic, musical and theatrical per­formances. But the Superdome is also equipped with the very latest electronic and communications gear to make it as modern as present day color television. 
As many as 97,000 people can gather here to watch on giant screen television closed circuit events anywhere in the world, wherever satellite communications equipment can reach. 
a people place 
When completed, the Superdome will be the largest "people place" in the history of mankind, more than eight acres in one room. Besides sporting events, concerts, contests, stage productions, conventions, trade shows, exhibitions and other mass audience shows, the building will also house restaurants, cocktail lounges, shops, offices and even a medical center. Two garages will hold a total of 5,000 cars on three levels. A revolutionary grandstand system is being stalled to allow ground-level sections propelled by electric motors to move in and out on iron rails. A push of a button moves sideline seats in close for football or baseball. Some of the seats move across the field to form an arena configuration for basketball, hockey, ice shows or other arena events. 
For arena events, the seating is flexible from 10,000 to a capacity of 31,475 including standing room. For a giant convention or a religious crusade, temporary seating on the main floor would bring the capacity up to approximately 100,000. 
There are also eight star suites w~th a conneeting 
By Herb Juliano 


lounge at field level and 64 box suites with private 
seating below the terrace (or upper deck) level. 
You will be able to see every major sport from 
professional football to hockey, college football and 
basketball, the Sugar Bowl, the Super Bowl and major 
league baseball. 
General entertainment events such as "Disney on 
Parade" and the circus, big-name performers and 
personalities, rock groups, musical extravaganzas and 
Mardi Gras can be accomodated. 
No wonder Dean Gerald McLindon of Louisiana 
State University's School of Environmental Design 
said: "This is the most usable public building ever 
designed in the history of man." 
giant screen TV 

You won't be able to buy a bad seat in the Super­
dome. Not even if you wanted to. That's because the 
Superdome's revolutionary giant-screen, color 
television system will furnish every spectator with a 
bird's eye view of all the action as it happens inside the 
stadium. 
Six huge television screens, each 26 feet wide and 22 
feet high, will be suspended on a giant gondola from the 
peak of the Superdome and will provide spectators 
with a superb "up-close" view of nearly every event as 
well as "instant replay" from his seat in the Super­
dome. 

This TV system, a $1.3 million development created 
exclusively for the Superdome, will transform the 
lowly end zone seat into an exclusive box seat. The play 
on the opposite end of the field will be turned into a 
spectacular on-the-ball close-up on the color screens 
each approximately 875 times larger than a home TV 
set. 

Picture yourself on a Sunday afternoon sitting in a 
south end zone seat in the Superdome, watching the 
New Orleans Saints battle the Dallas Cowboys. Sud­
denly, the Saints explode 17 yards for a touchdown! 
You, however, have a problem. The Saints scored in 
the north end zone, more than 100 yards from your 
south end zone seat. 
In ~~Y other stadium, you wait for the late night television news or the Monday morning newspapers to get details of the touchdown. Hut the Superdome won't be just any other stadium. In the Superdome, when an exciting play happens, you will see it over again, from your same seat, just a few seconds later! 
Even if the seat you have in the Superdome is the greatest possible distance from the Giant Screen TV, the picture you will see in vivid color on this Super­dome "first" would be the same relative size as wat­ching a yard square picture from a distance of ten feet. And there is more. 
We are accustomed to isolated camera views and slow motion in television coverage of sports. Well, S~~rdome giant sc_reen TV will do the same thing, g1vmg you slow motion and isolated views ... even in super close-up! 
And it has a variety of other uses. Championship boxi~g, satellite telecasts, special events, major en­tertamers . . . anything that commercial or closed circuit TV can do ... can be done on Superdome giant screen TV. 
Even more innovations are in the works. Just imagine seeing a second closed-circuit pro football game on the giant screen TV after the regular live game ends. ImaJtine lliant screen telecasts of out-4'1r­
~ ""; ·f-';• 
town college games, either before or after a local 
college game. The possibilitie~ boggle your mind. 
And would you believe full theatrical lighting and full 
theatrical sound, also housed in the same unique 
gondola? It's true. From Sonny and Cher to the 
Metropolitan Opera, a performance in the Superdome 
will have sound and lighting facilities that will match 
anything, anywhere. 
_How do the pictures get on these giant screens? ~Idoph?r C~rporation of Switzerland has designed and IS bml~mg SIX huge high intensity projectors, the likes of which never before have been made. TNT Com­munications of New York, pioneer in closed circuit TV hol~s the contract for the innovative system. Thes~ proJectors, located on the fifth level of the Superdome will proj~t the image onto the screens. Images, by th~ way, wh1ch are sharper, brighter, and with more ~ontr~st than your home television set, even with every light m the Superdome turned up to full brightness. 
The control room for the giant screen TV system will ~e located on the S~perdome's third level. Here you fmd the same eqUipment you find in a mnrlPrn te~evisio~ station ... video tape machines, film and shde proJectors, a special effects board capable of 14 "wipes" orpatterns,and a lot more, all designed to let you see the action ... at least twice. 
So there is no worry if your ticket for Superdome football puts you in an end zone seat. When the Saints or any others, go marching in at the other end of th~ ~~~·it will all be up there, big as life, on giant screen 
. But sports won't be the only events during which the gi.ant screen TV system will be utilized. The TV system Will also provide additional revenue for the the stadium ~ith commercial television advertising during timeouts and intermissions. Convention and trade show executives will find the TV system a superb 


I t 
-


About The Author 
Herb Juliano is a member of the Notre Dame Staff and lives on the campus. He is a television sports announcer, a baseball author and writer , and a self-appointed baseball critic. His recently completed book on the future of baseball in America, soon to be published, is titled: "A WHOLE NEW BALL GAME: THE MOST TIMELY BOOK ON BASEBALL EVER WRITTEN." Another book, to be called "IF THAT'S A STRIKE, THEN THIS MUST BE BASEBALL," is just in the planning stage. 
This is Mr. Juliano's second time around at Notre Dame. He spent nearly eight years here in the 1950's, when he assisted the late Joe Boland in the snorts depart­ment of WSBT and WSBT-TV, the South Bend Tribune stations. 
visual aid, enabling one to see a close-up of every booth in an exposition without leaving his plush, stadium seat. 
With this multiplicity of usages, one wouldn't expect the TV system to double as a part-time traffic engineer. But it will. Here's how: 
Immediately after a football game, highlights of the contest as well as live, locker room interviews with the stars and coaches of the game will be shown over the TV system. This additional TV attraction is expected to keep a large portion of the crowd in their seats, thus eliminating a rush to the parking lot. 
Another aid to traffic dispersal that is being con­sidered by Superdome event planners is the possibility of beaming in highlights of network grid games as well as a late-afternoon West Coast pro contest, im­mediately following the prime event. This will at least partially eliminate the mad rush out of the stadium to see the afternoon football game on home TV. After all, why go home when you have all the comforts of home, including color TV and exciting stadium atmosphere, right in the Superdome~ 
roll-up turf 
Every versatile room needs a roll-up rug and the world's largest carpet is being planned for the Superdome. Artificial turf manufacturers are working on roll-up turfs and several versions are being tested. The one that best suits the needs of the 
Superdome will be selected.. The turf will be used for sports and rolled back for conventions and trade shows. 
It is thus possible to lay out more than 900 convention and-or exhibit booths on the main floor, supplied by a conduit system that brings them communications drainage, water, gas, steam, power and air. ' Convention meeting rooms are also located in each of the stadium's four quadrants. 
The advanced theatrical lighting system has an almost unlimited range throughout the building from extra-bright intensities for color telecasting down to total darkness. 
Since the Superdome ceiling serves as an accoustical membrane, sound services range from speaker clusters to smaller speakers and microphone outlets in every area of the Superdome. 
Football events in the Superdome will include the famous Sugar Bowl contest and the profootball Super 

This projected image of the exterior of the Superdome when completed makes the 
structure  took  as  
magnificent  as  it  
sounds.  

Herb Juliano in his role as broadcaster. 
Bowl. During the regular football season, sports fans 
can watch the professional New Orleans Saints and 
college games galore. The Tulane Green Wave and 
other area universities will be regular features. 
The state's black colleges will play in the Super­
dome, and outstanding area high school games will be 
seen there. And, plans are being made for double­
header games, or one game in the afternoon and 
another at night. 

It has been suggested to baseball management that the World Series be played each year in the Super­dome. Why not~ It would be a neutral field with extra comfortable viewing and absolutely no weather worries. 
Perhaps New Orleans will have a full baseball franchise by 1975, the first full season of baseball in the Superdome. Certinly, there will be inter-league exhibition games next year with the New York Yankees opening the 1975 season in an exhibition game against the New York Mets. 
The annual Sugar Bowl basketball tournament will feature the nation's outstanding college basketball teams in the Superdome. Tulane, LSU, Dillard and Xavier will play in the Superdome, and other schools from around the state will be invited as "home teams" there. Double-headers, too. And there is a chance for the NCAA regional playoffs, and later, even the national NCAA championship. Pro basketball on a regular basis is a definite possibility. 
Friday, March 29, 1974 the observer 1 1 
overwhelmingly approved the constitutional amend­ment creating the Louisiana Stadium and Exposition District. And, on that day, the Superdome was born. Beseiged for five years in the courtroom, the District and its eleven-man Board of Commissioners survived seemingly endless legal skirmishes. Finally, on August 11, 1971, a combine representing banking interests in the states of Louisiana, Georgia, Florida, Mississippi, Tennessee, Arkansas, Illinois, Missouri,-South Carolina, North Carolina and Texas, purchased $129.5 million worth of revenue bonds. 
The Louisiana Superdome is a public facility, owned by the people of Louisiana. It is being built at a total cost of over $163 million. Originally, the cost of con­truction was estimated at $35 million, but by 1971 when the $129.5 million revenue bond issue was authorized, the entire concept and location had been changed. By 1974, latest cost estimates had reached the $163 million figure. Operators of the Superdome must clear $34,500 a day to break even. As usually happens in ventures of this magnitude, money for the Superdome comes from the multi-million dollar bond issue, from interest on the bond money invested during the time construction, and from a hotel-motel occupancy tax. 
In the case of the Superdome, the f011r percent oc­cupancy tax on hotel and motel rooms in Orleans and Jefferson Parishes has already reached a 15 percent average annual growth rate, far exceeding the projections of 11.6 percent made by Standard Research Institute in March, 1971. 
Estimates for last year indicate the hotel-motel tax will bring $2.4 million. 
The District's investment of idle funds will generate over $11.2 million of interest income during the con­struction phase. This is $2 million more than the amount projected in 1971. 
A lease signed for space in the Superdome will net $127,596 annually. 
Anything goes in the Louisiana Superdome! From great sports events to major cultural attractions, religious services, Broadway productions and political conventions, the potential is as endless as man's imagination, and his needs. The immensity of the Louisiana Superdome was founded on the principle and the belief that we inhabit an age when even tomorrow is in danger of obsolescence. The Louisiana Super­dome is beyond tomorrow. And its functional quality is no accident. It was planned that way. Perhaps as a reflection of the State of Louisiana . . . which exhibits simlar variety in its heritage, its interests, its people­the world's greatest festivals, superb fishing, hunting, great sportsmanship in the stadium, on the field and in the ring. All of these qualities are being brought under one massive roof, and in the world's largest room with an unobstructed view. 
The economic impact is great. For labor, it will mean an estimated $1 billion of construction in the metropolitan area, providing thousands of needed jobs. 
For the city and state governments, the increased spending will mean increased tax revenues, ultimately leading to better citizen services. 
And for the Louisianian, it will usher in a new psychology of progress and pride with which to iden­tify. 

It's immensity was founded on the belief "that even tomorrow is in danger of obsolence." 
Seating in the Louisiana Superdome has been the subject of much public speculation recently, resulting in considerable-and understandable--confusion. The Superdome is the largest covered stadium in the world, about one-third again larger than its nearest rival, the Houston Astrodome, which could fit easily inside the Superdome. Seating is not a simple subject because the Superdome is not a simple structure. As befits a great building, the Superdome is intricate and involved in its conception, it construction, and to some extent in its operation. It is a complex building in order to make it simple for the spectator to use. In fact, it was designed for the spectator: his arrival, his stay, his viewing, seating and convenience, the air he breathes, the sound he hears , his thirst, hunger and body comforts, his contact with the game, his physical contact with the building, his peace of mind as to his movement, parking, safety and easy exit. 
The Louisiana Superdome is more than simply a football stadium. It is also a baseball park, a basket­ball coliseum, a fight arena, a convention and trade show hall, a parking facility and other such structures all under one roof. Consequently, seating arrangements vary according to the event. To ac­compish these varied seating plans or shapes, the Superdome was designed with five basic con­figurations, according to the shape of the playing field. 
Another dimension of confusion is the capacity of the Superdome. Ca.pac~ty is not the same thing as seating, because capacity mcludes standing room. 
In the regular football configuration, the Superdome seats 71,827; capacity 74,966. The Bowl football and auditorium configuration seats 75,795; capacity 80,101. The baseball configuration seats 60,543; capacity 64,537. The basketball configuration seats 18,886; capacity 19,473. And finally, the convention con­figuration seats 97,365, with no capacity anticipated. 
. . how it began . It all began eight y~rs. ag~.. • . ...... ~· .. On November 8, 1966, the voters of Louisiana 


the observer Friday, March 29, 1974 
Nixon oromises no veto 
Minimum wage act to be signed into law 

B:v GENE POYTHRESS 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -Con­gress approved legislation Thursday boosting the nation's minimum wage in three steps to $2.30 per hour and extending it to about 10 million more workers. 
President Nixon said earlier Thursday that he would not veto the measure -he did last year because he thought it was inflationary -so the minimum wage will increase from $1.60 to $2 on May 1, to $2.10 next Jan. 1, and to $2.30 on Jan. 1976. 
The House voted 345 to 50 and the Senate 71 to 19 to accept a conference committee bill that was a compromise between separate, slightly different ver­sions. 
Domestic employees covered
!~ 
The law extends coverage for
l ~ 
:he first time to domestic . ) employes, all government work­
·~·. \ 
ers and retail chain employes. In all, 54 million workers will
~;;,1·" be covered by the minimum wage law, about 10 million more than before. "This legislation is three years late," said Sen. Jacob K. Javits, R-N .Y., one of its chief sponsors. 
Art display closes week long e~hibit; use of Lafortune proves successful 
by Kathy Lawrence Staff Reporter 

An art reproduction display and sale held in the lobby of LaFortune Student Center closed last night after a week-long stay. The sale was conducted by the R.P. A vner Arts Company of Chicago and sponsored by the Office of Student Activities. 
The Avner Arts Company con­tacted Fr. David Schlaver last Friday and proposed the art sale. Schlaver, director of Student Activities, said he accepted to see if La Fortune could be . used satisfactorily for such a purpose. 
Initially the presentation-suf­fered from a lack of publicity, but it eventually attracted many students. Schlaver spoke ap­provingly of the response given the showing, and said that La Fortune needs more activities of this kind. 

I 
:SOCIOLOGY MAJOR? 
*MEET YOUR MAJOR NIGHT* 
REQUIREMENTS? MEET WITH 
WHAT CAN YOU .... FACULTY AND 
DO WITH IT? OTHER MAJORS 
MONDAY APRIL 1 
8:00 PM 
SOCIAL SCIENCE 5TH FLOOR LIBRARY
TRAINING LAB 
Opponents argued the meas­ure will hurt the people it is supposed to help -the poor ­because it will spur inflation and unemployment. 
The measure applies to all workers regardless of age. Congress rejected a strong suggestion by President Nixon to make the minimum 15 per cent less for workers under 18. 
Passage means almost im­mediate pay hikes for some 4 million workers now paid less than $2 an hour and adds another 10 million to minimum wage protection. 
Many newly-covered workers 

The newly-covered workers include local, state and federal government employes, domestic and household workers and some retail and service wor­kers. About 6 million workers are still exempt, most of them employes of small retail and service establishments. 
The immediate cost was estimated by economists at $1.5 billion. 
The bill also requires over­time be paid to policemen and firemen after a 60-hour week beginning next January. The hourly requirement goes to 58 hours in 1976 and 54 hours in 
1977. $1.60 May 1, to $1.80 next Jan. 1, to $2 on Jan. 1, 1976, to $2.20 Farm workers covered on Jan. 1, 1977, and to $2.30 on 
Jan. 1, 1978. Farm workers also will be 
The Senate version of the bill

getting raises, but not as 
was more liberal than the

quickly as most others. The 
House version, and most of the

minimum wage for agricultural 
changes reflected the House

employes, now $1.30, goes to 
bill. The Senate backed away 

With new parietals 
Fe'W problezns occur at SMC 
As far as male visitation went there were no violations but there were two or three incidents of drinking. Kathleen Mulaney, dean of students, asked "that students act responsibly because we have to respect Indiana State Laws regarding alcohol, especially during open hours~ If the rule is abused it could possibly affect male visitation." 
According to Hall Life Com­missioner Ann Smith, "It was a pleasure to feel a more natural atmosphere on campus, but it is important to remember that other rules are still in effect such as the drinking regulation. However, St. Mary's students on the whole showed responsibility in handling 
Have your next party at THE LIBRARY 
We can handle hall, section, or club parties up to fifty people. Special rates on food and drink. Call at least two days in advance. 

. ,. ·.:-~t;:ol':.:,t;.·"tt"~ 
. :. ~ ~..:.: .~,.: ·~ .
..··· ·; ........_,. .. ,...... A nice place
.... '·~•41it·-·· ~~·· 
to begin your weekend 
Mass & Dinner 5pm Every Friday 
from a $2.20 hourly wage next Jan. 1 and from overtime for policemen and firemen after 40 hours. 
If signed into law, as expected, the measure will represent the fruit of three years of division between the President and Congress. 
the new hours. The general reaction to the conduct of St. Mary's students under the new parietals has been good. From the hall directors to the students most people seemed happy that the students have an expanded opportunity to have a more natural atmosphere on 
campus. 
New parietals were put into effect for the first time last weekend at St. Mary's. They allowed for male visitation on Fridays' from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. and on Saturdays from 1 
p.m. to 10 p.m. in addition to the previous 1 to 5 visitation on Sunday afternoons. 
13

Friday, March 29, 1974 the observer 
SMC Presidential SearchCommittee formed 
by Judy Peterson 
Staff Reporter Sister M. Catherine Francis Ford, Chairman of St. Mary's Board of Regents, has announced the formation of a Presidential Search Committee. The committee was established follwoing the March 8 resignation of Dr. Edward L. Henry. Four regents, two faculty members, one elected administrator, the president of St. Mary's College Alumnae Association, and the 
Chairman of the Student Board of Governance have been elected to serve on the committee. 
Fr. John John P. Whalen will serve as chairman of the com­mittee. He is presently vice­chairman of the Board of Regents and executive director of the Consortium of Universities of the 
Washington, D.C., metropolitan area. 
The other members are: Regents Mary Hellmuth, Sister M. Leonella Moe, and Dr. Glenn Olsen; Sister M. Francesca Kennedy, St. Mary's registrar;Sister M. Elena Malits, faculty member in the department of religious studies; Dr. Eugene A. Campanale, faculty member and chairman of the department of education;Mrs. Kathryn Howard Boyle, president of the St. Mary's College Alumnae Association; and Barbara Ellen McKiernan, studnet and chairman of the Student Board of Governance. 
The first meeting held within two 
Dayan and Kissinger talk of disengaging warring troops 
By United Press International 
Defense Minister Moshe Dayan of Israel arrived in Washington to begin talks today with U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger for the disengagement of Israeli and Syrian troops in the Golan Heights. Dayan pledged no withdrawal· until Syria frees Israeli prisoners of war. 
The talks were taking place to the far away thunder of the big guns in the disputed territory where both sides sought to exert military pres­sure at the conference table. After Dayan presents the Israeli plan for disengagement to Kissenger, the Syrians will come to Washington with their proposals. 
The United States, which arranged the separation of Israeli and Egyptian forces on the Suez front, now hopes to accomplish a similar feat on the Israeli-Syrian front. 
Since the Syrians refuse to recognize Israel, Kissinger was able to pursade them to negotiate only indirectly through the good offices of the United States. 
Syria continues to insist that there can be no military disengagement until Israel withdraws from all of the Golan 
Orchestra slates concert tonight 
The· Fine Arts Chamber Or­
chestra of Western Michigan 
University, Kalamazoo, will 
perform in concert at Saint Mary's 
Friday, March 29, at 8:15p.m. in 
the Little Theatre. 
This performing ensemble 
repr'esents the University's 
College of Fine Arts, the first such 
college in the state of Michigan. 
The group is unique in that it is a 
faculty-student ensemble, and is 
conducted. 
The orchestra regularly utilizes 
ten violins, three·violas, two celli, 
and one string bass. For the ap­
pearance at Saint Mary's, a flute 
and a harpsichord will be added. 
Included on the program will be 
Bach's Brandenburg Concerto 
Number 5 Bizer's Duo from Jeux 
d'Enfants, Mensellssohn's An· 
dante form Slnfornia IX for 
strings, the St. Paul Suite by 
Gustav Holst, and Karel Husa's 
Four Little Pieces for string or­
chestra. 
Sponsored by the music 
department of Saint Mary's 
College, Friday's concert is open to 
the public without charge. 
plnnning n \W(klin~'! call TIM• 234·5822 
\\t>tklin~ Phoh~l'afh,. 
234-5822 r.ICHAB. LONER 
~-=-· ~ 'I
..
1 I 
. • -• • 1 • 
•• ' • ~ •••• •-• • , ................. ~ .4 ' 
Heights it won in the June 1967 war as well as the land taken by Israel during the October 1973 conflict. 
"There will be no movement of forces in the north before our prisoners are returned," Dayan said at Ben-Gurion airport shortly before his departure for Washington Thursday, referring to the 65 prisoners held by Syria. 
The "war of attrition" in the Golan bulge seized by Israel in last October's Middle East war went through its 17th consecu­tive day Thursday, with big Israeli and Syrian artillery shell again thundering across the front lines. 
A Damascus military spokes­man said three Syrian soldiers were wounded in the fighting which continued for nearly 10 hours. He said Arab guns destroyed · an "enemy engineer­ing unit," five Israeli bunkers, two observation posts and armored vehicles and silenced 15 Israeli artillery batteries. 
The Tel Aviv command said Syrian fire wounded two Israeli soldiers, raising the toll since March 12 to four dead and 14 wounded. 
"As long as the shooting continues, there is always the possibility that it can turn into a war," said Israeli Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. David Elazar, "but our forces are ready." 
The Israeli defense minister 

School house Too 
In the Brewery 100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone . 259-8181 
The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
' 

SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I 0 HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 
THE SENIOR BAR 
'I t t 
-:~~-~'~.· ~ •,_'/•~ ••//:.\• f • f f ,\:-~:.,_·.,.··,~~~.;\:<\ '.~' C <.-~ ~ 't ~ .:•\\••>•>·.~·...:·:~•':•<•<·~·::;:;<·~·>·~ : • ~ ~ 
1 

• 
is understood to be bringing a proposal in which Israel offers to undertake a partial with­drawal along most of the Golan front if a six-mile buffer zone; controled by the United Nations forces, is created between the two sides. 
Kissinger returned from talks in Moscow with Soviet Commu­nist party General Secretary Leonid I. Brezhnev, which included the Middle East. 
Seven tickets file petitions for class offices 
(continued from page 2) 
Dean, Angott, James Bracken, Tim Currier, and Bruce Niebylski; Greg Ericksen, Bob Spann, Chris Fenn, and Joe Henderlong; Martin. O,Connor, James Shanahan, Pete Roberts, and Mike McGarry; William Smith, Richard O'Connor, Wayne Bombaci, and John Barry; and Tom Strachota, John David Brown, Bill Reinke, and · Mary Ellen Darin . 
Declaring their candidancy for the junior class posts are Augie Grace, Sue Caranci Rick Hamilton and Betsy Kall. Op· posing them in this race are Stephen Shea, Sally Stanton, Greg Marino and Becky Taiclet. 
weeks, will be primarily organizational, setting up dates and locations of future meetings and screening processes to be used in evaluating candidates. All subsequent meetings will be held in Washington, Chicago, or South Bend. 
When questioned about the rumor that plans were being made to hire a professional service to screen applicants prior to the committee's meeting, Fr. Whaleri replied, "If there are <plans) it's news to me." 
Whalen reports that he has received a few resumes, but refused to name any particular candidates for the post. All ap­plications are being accepted and will be judged on merit, as required by law. 
He did say that although a PhD. is preferred, it is not a necessary requirement, pointing out that the presidency of Georgetown University was recently filled by a man without a doctoral degree. 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE *! TONIGHT I* 

10:00 RON DEPETRI 
:00 KEVIN KELLOGG 
SHIELY,· SHIPPY and THE JOHN STEINMAN McHALE BROS 
9:00-1:00 milkshake 
beneath cafeteria music 
'---· 

SUNDAY LITURGY 
MAIN CHURCH 

5:15 p.m~ Sat. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. 
12:15 p.m. Sund. 
4:00 p.m. Sun. 
4:30 p.m. Sun. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC Fr. Edward Malloy, CSC Fr. Patrick MaIoney, CSC Fr. Willian Toohey, CSC 
Solemn Eucharistic Procession Cavanaugh Hall (Closing of 40 hours) 
Evensong • Lady Chapel 

Getting Married 
but don't want the things yot•r mother has? 
Cust •m Handmade 
5
1 
~neware by

Bet' tel Pike Pottery $17°r per place setting . 
Other Stoneware patterns also available 

84 million miles away 
Mariner 10 to take photographs of Mercury 
PASADENA, Calif. <UPI> ­Mariner 10 was set Thursday to begin taking 1,000 nonstop closeup pictures of Mercury to give astronomers and scientists their first real information about the remote little planet. 
The 1,000-pound spacecraft, closing in on Mercury after a celestial voyage of more than 84 million miles, was heading for a passby about 415 miles away from the planet at 1:46 
p.m. PDT Friday. 
Beginning Thursday night, the controllers at Cal Tech's Jet Propulsion Laboratory were turning on the cameras to operate around the clock for a period of about 48 hours ending Saturday night. 
Those photographs will have a "resolution" down to about 300 feet on Mercury's surface and should give intimate detail of the planet's topography. 
The pictures received so far 
about 38 million miles. 

indicate that, like the moon, 
Mercury makes a full revolu­
Venus is pocked with huge 
tion around the sun every 88 
craters -perhaps the result of 
davs. Mariner will take 176 
meteorites. 

A JPL spokesman said it was not yet possible to tell from the splotches of light and dark spots whether they are craters, basins or mountain ranges. 
Mariner 10 already was closer to the sun than any previous spacecraft. JPL said the closest approaches hitherto had been made either by one of the American or Russian _probes of Venus. 
In addition to the photo­graphs, Mariner now was also measuring Mercury's magnetic field and the "solar plasma" ­the flow of radiation from the sun which has profound effect on interplanetary weather. 
After passing Mercury, Ma­riner 10 will go into orbit around the sun at a distance of days for after it orbits it Mercury 
a full orbit so that planned to stage a second 
has completed two photographic and scientific 
will pass close to experiment at that time next 
again and it is September. 
Dress Up 
for Spring 
Top off jeans with smocks and shirts. Long sleeved cotton shirts. Men's and women's to match. Brushed denim jackets for cold winter nights! Long skirts and dresses for dressy or casual. Wander through loads of jewelry, too! Mexican sterling silver, abalone, and turquoise. Lots of rings from Thailand. Necklaces, earrings, and African trade beads! Jewelry and clothes for all occasions! 


Male and female life expectancy gap closing 
GENEVA (UPI) -The gap between male and female life expectancy in Europe is closing because women smoke more 
.. 
and increasingly combine out­side jobs with taking care of the home and children, the World Health Organization <WHO) said Thursday. 
This trend is especiallynoticeable in the 45-54 age group, it said. 
An analysis of life expectancy statistics by Dr. Bernard Benjamin of London University said, "a new and distressing factor now emerging is that in some countries the margin between the mortality levels for males and females has recently narrowed." 
This is not because male life expectancy has improved but because that for women is not improving, Benjamin said. 
"The emergence of this trend," he said, "coincides with: 
"1. The lengthening perid of commitment of women to cigarette smoking, now at a much higher level of consump­tion than before World War II, and, 
"2. The increased entry of women into the labor market, often involving the double strain of housekeeping and motherhood, together with in­dustrial employment." 
The study said married people in general live longer than single persons because of greater economic security and a difference in life styles. 
Circulatory diseases now ·ac­count for 50 per cent of all deaths in Europe and cancer for 20 per cent, it said. 
Acute respratory infections, pneumonia . and influenza acount for 10 per cent of deaths while accidents and injuries cause about five per cent. 
Infant mortality in Europe is declining throughout Europe and is now 12 per 1,000 live births in Sweden, and 58 in Portugal. 
"There is every indication that a rate as low as 10, or even lower, is attainable," the report said. 

100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery 

LONDON. PARIS. ANTWERP. ROTIERDAM. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. TORONTO. MONTREAL. 
VANCOUVER. NEW YORK. BOSTON. MIAMI. PHILIDElPHIA. CHICAGO. DETROIT PITTSBURGH. 
HvUSTO~. DALLA~. PHOENIX. SAN FRANCISCO SFAT;I. F [("'!': .t.N(';•t•<: 
..· .. 
I f I • I tl' I I I I • e 1 • .t • a • • • • 
----------~-------------------.,_,....-------~----­
.,1 

Fridav. March 29, 1974 the observer 15 
Spring drills begin on Saturday I 

(continued from page 16) 
make our team members more 
aware of our strategical position. 
"Last year we started out after having lost our last two games of the previous season at a zero position on the graph. We climaxed with our performance against Miami in the last game of the regular season, but due to time factors, practice facilities, in­clement weather we slumped a little for the Sugar Bowl. This spring we want to pick up at that point on the graph and just keep on moving up." 
Freshman Willie Fry saw a lot of time last season, and is a more than capable replacement for Stock. 
While the Irish will stick to their basic defensive strategies of this past year there is a chance the fans will see some added variations next fall. 
"We're going to be working on multiple defenses going from even to odd fronts", explained Parseghian." And we'll be working very hard on defensing the option. The noseguard position vacated by Potempa is wide open, and a few people, Marv Russell, Joe 
~zeracki, Eastman and even Steve Niehaus could play some there." 
Tom Clements, one of this season's co-captains, will lead the Irish in 
spring drills starting tomorrow after noon. Despite the loss of Townsend and Rudnick, the defensive backfield will be solid. Reggie Barnett, Luther Bradley, Bob Zanot, Pat Sarb, and Tom Lopienski will all be
Diamond truck hijacked 
returning. The only loss at linebacker is Potempa and reserve Tim Sullivan, while all the starters will be returning on the defensive
it was stopped in evening peak
NEW YORK <UPI) -Police line. The return of Steve Niehaus
hour traffic.
today sought three men who is another positive point. 
According to the driver,
hijacked at gunpoint a diamond exchange courier truck in mid­Sherman Brown, 33, a man "!talked to Steve yesterday,'" Manhattan and made off with walked up to the window on the offered Ara, "and he seems to be . 42 bags of jewelry and watches. driver's side of the truck,. ahead of where he was at this point 
Detectives said it would take apparently from the vehicle last year. He's been playing a lot some time to check the value of behind, and pointed a gun at of basketball , cutting sharply and the valuables taken Thursday him. He was made to walk to moving quickly so he'll see action but that it could range the station wagon immediately this spring. Jim Stock, however, anywhere from $30,000 to to the rear of the truck and will be out for the entire spring.
ordered to hand over the keys The shoulder injury that he$400,000. They said each of 
seven jewelry establishments to the locked rear doors. received in the Sugar Bowl isn't 
where pickups had been made He was told to lie on the floor completely healed so he won't be 
behind the front seat with his
prior to the hijacking would seeing any action. 
eyes closed and to "keep your
have to be consulted. 
head down," he said. The offensive backfield, withThe United Parcel panel was later the exception of Gary Diminick istruck had completed the second 1 The -truck found completely intact while there will
abandoned in Brooklyn without
of the two daily rounds it be a couple of battles at Ioffensivethe bags of jewelry.
makes through the midtown and tight end. Elton Moore and Al
Detectives said the gunman
diamond exchange along Sixth Wujciak are the top prospects to
got in the front seat with the
A venue near Rockefeller Center 1
replace Pomarico, while Ed
driver of the station wagon and
and was headed back to the 
United Parcel Co. terminal an accomplice apparently drove Bauer, who sat out all of last 
season with an injury, and Steveoff in the panel truck.
shortly before when police said Quehl will contend for the spot left 
Brown was driven around for 
before was open by the graduation of AII­
three hours he 
IAmerican Casper.
Miss Rawlins released unharmed in Queens, and ordered to walk toward the j Despite all the plusses there is
boardwalk. Several blocks 
·some worry that success will go to
away, he spotted and hailed a 
Ithe Irish's head.
dies at 36 
police patrol car. 
tu ·;:;:~:~:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:;:;:~:~:;:;:~:=:=:~:~:;:::;~: 
256-0lll 

)\,BIG SAVINGS NOW~~\
::::ti~i::.from J!)Jjjjq.~ :: ON PAINTINGS ~:;
page 5) 
Cards

~=~=;=·=~=~=!=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=·=~:;:.:;:;:;:~
A fire department ambulance 1!f-1 l · i ;'\ yt) .1 { crew said the death appeared :=:J~.Jt:A1~~ ~~ : Books to be natural, an accident, or c' ·• ~··• • """' m.111 Mag_a_zines / SUlCl. 'de. An autopsy was or-ruwn&~uuntry ' -t· · ~ '' ~· . 2340 1111foldt• l.uw A t s . 
;~?~~J:S-::Z'•::";~ lr~=~..-~00§-~~"-"~"fr~"'~·~~·::Ql~,,!§•~n~:.~;=·=·~~-!!i~~i"'l;'h;·'"'~.:~·~~~-:·:·"-~~··~·:~··~4ll~-~~·4~4=::=::~r~~u~pp~l~i~e~s~. , 
divorced in June, 1971. She was 1 
found dead in bed by her ~tancakt K.,.UBt 
youngest daughter. I 4P 11.f &.~ Damone's first wife was actress Pier Angeli, who died of 
I 
an overdose drugs 1971. "En1·oy a snack or d1
of in ·nner" 

Only Tuesday, Damone an­nounced his engagement to . ~:::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=!!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::w marry Becky Jones, 26, report-' I :::: 35 Varieties of Pancakes :::: 
edly a Houston oil heiress. A ' :;:;Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches ;:~:~ 
spo~esm~n for Damone, ":ho is I i:i~ Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :~:~: 
smgmg m Las Vegas, sa1d he I ::·...................-. :;:;:
was "crushed" by Miss Rawl-I ·:3:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::.:.::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::# 
ins' death and ~he wedding, ,•j U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host scheduled for April 12, may be 1 ( Ac f H 1. d )
postponed. • . • • • • • . • . . t . . ro.ss rom o r ay 1nn . Bob Edwards, NO 'SO 
"I think that the squad is aware could happen and avoid such a that their performance in the fall mistake." of 1974 is not going to be based on 
The Irish begin workouts what they did last year," noted tomorrow afternoon at 1 p.m., and Parseghian. "I'm concerned as in the past will attempt to somewhat about the possibility of scrimmage every Wednesday and complacency on the team, but it it Saturday afternoons ending with is the duty of myself and the rest of the annual Blue-Gold game on Maythe coaching staff to keep the 

4.

squad members aware of what 
CLASSIFIE 

FOR SALE NOTICES 

Top of the line Sanyo quad The Mini meal served at Mr. receiver J UC disc Quick on State Route 23 is a demodulator, 4 speakers, plays bargain. You get a discrete, regular matrix and cheeseburger, golden French SQ. Must sell!! SSSO or best fries, Pepsi and mouth 
offer Call Ed 1506. watering fruit pie for only 90 
cents. 1971112 Toyota Celica ST, 4­speed tachometer, vinyl top, Political Sci and History Sale 
steel belted radials, excellent at Pandora's Books. March 31 condi.tion to 30 mpg. $1995, Call to April 6. 50 per cent off used ' 232-3841. books. Special 5 cent box. 
Tired of same old bands at 

Seniors: ·great buys on every party? Fesh rock sounds graduation stereos. All brands now playing for reasonable , great prices! Golden Dome prices. Call Pat 3274. Records 804 Flanner ph. 1487. 
Pitt Club Easter Bus signups Pioneer SX 828 and Pioneer SA­Sundqay at 7-7:30. LaFortune SOOA amp. Ph.1487. Amphitheatre. Questions call Hohn 1786. 
Tandberg 9000X tape deck, $525; Bose 901. speakers with NO Backpackers : Time to stands,$450; All practically make Easter outing plans. 
new. 272-8782. Sunday lC LaFortune. 7 pm. 
'68 Pontiac GTO, air con­Logan Volunteers: Sat Rec ditioning, power steering and this week, followed by camping brakes, rear defrost. Call 272-trip. For more info contact Jay 9198. 288-9756. 
Stereos for sale, receivers WANTED turntables, tapedecks, most brands available, 25 per cent Need 2 housemates '74. off. Call 8782, 8436, 8437. Located block fomlinebacker. 
Have to kmow by April 1. Tom Portable Panasonic AM-FM 233-2712 or Steve 233-6706. stereo. Call 5754. 
Need home for Labrador till Easter. Will pay. Amiable, obedient animal. Call Ken 1628. 

PERSONALS 
Need ride to upstate NY April 4 Will the person who took my or 5. 233-5302. 

coat Wed. at LaFortune please return it. Frank 1764. 
Need ride west on 1-80 to 

Moline. Ill. this weekend. Call To the Jockey: 5134. Let's get out of the rain. 
together. Need ride to DC or nearby for 
the HORSE with no name. 
Easter. Will share SS. Call Andy 1725. 

Spring fever has struck! ! Are you woman enough? Want to sub let apt. for sum­Call Springy Sam 6551. mer. Portage or Turtle Creek. 
Call 3816. 
Need ride to Madison Wis. Call 3261. 




T,>m McMahon· Bill Pumphrey Terry Billger General Agent 
'T~araft~r ~-~ar. ~~m~"it~r Iaftcr"i~mest~r. the CullegeMas'ter' from Fid~litv Union l..ife has ht-cn ttl~ most acceptl'd most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 


Norm Wallace 

Find out why. 
Call the Fidelitv Union CollegeM aster· .Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. laSalltt

T•>m Schirr 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 


Carlton Higgt!JlbQth'an · ...•• , 



16 
the observer 
Shumatedecides: plansto go pro 
,. 

l I 
j 

by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

To those who know him, it came as no surprise. 
John Shumate announced today that he will be graduating from the University this May in hopes of pursuing a professional basketball career. Thus the big center from Elizabeth, New Jersey endedmonthso£ speculation as to his future status, and in the process raised the hopes of more than one cellar-dwelling pro team. 
"l had pretty much made up my mind before Tuesday, but I didn't want to say I was or wasn't leaving because I felt there were a few things I had to straighten up first." 
"The basic reason I'm leaving is because of my family. Sure there are certain advantages for myself, but I always considered my family first. 
"And as I said to coach Phelps, there comes a time in a man's life when he has to go on. Even if he has to leave loved ones behind. You have to learn to deal with adversity, but what I'm saying is that my parents need my help right now. We're not bankrupt or in rags or anything like that, but they have to struggle from day to day. 
"My goal has been to enable my mother to stay home and raise my sister and not have to work anymore, and if I play pro ball I think I'll be able to help them out." 
For the "big Shu" the decision didn't come easily, and it certainly wasn't reached without a great deal of consideration. 
"I just didn't think I should prolong my decision any longer. I weighed the factors of NotreDamebasketball against the situation of my family, and I felt that the program would be able to get along a lot more easily without me than my family would. In addition because of the people involved here, the administration, the alumni, Digger, and the rest of the coaching, staff, and the whole Notre Dame family, we'll still be able to maintain Notre Dame's statusas a national power in basketball." 
Although coach Phelps was on a recruiting jaunt back East and not available for comment he had earlier been quoted as saying that he felt the decision was Shumate's alone, and he wasn't going to try to change anything that John decided in any way. 
Shumate will leave Notre Dame as one of the university's most prolific scorers and rebounders despite having only two years on the varsity level. His performance this season, coupled with the fact that he is a consensus All-American virtually assures Shu of becoming one of the top two or three picks in the professional drafts to .be held later in the spring. 
By virtue of the two poorest records in the NBA and the result of a coin toss Portland and Philadelphia will have the two top picks in that league while the Memphis Tams of the ABA will choose first in that circuit. For now, Shu has no preferences. 
"It doesn't matter what league or team I play with just so long as I'm beneficial to that team, and that team is beneficial to me. I just want to go where I can do the best job." 
The "big Shu" has already made his final appearance as a collegian and will make his debut as a professional Monday, April 1 in the Pizza Hut Classic to be held in Las Vegas. For John, leaving will not be easy. 
"I just want to take the time to say thank you to the faculty, students, all the athletic officials, Fr. Joyce, Fr. Hesburgh, and everyone that has been involved with me directly and indirectly. They've added a new dimension to my life here at Notre Dame. 



by Gre~ Corgan Sports Editor 

Part one of the 1974 Notre Dame football season begins charac­teristically enough tomorrow afternooon when the Irish hold the first of their thirty or so springworkouts. 
But coming off a· national championship which includes an undeafeated season, head coach Ara Parseghian and his charges find themselves in the precarious position of having no room for improvement, at least as far as a won-loss record is concerned. 
In addition the Irish ranks have not been severely depleted by graduation losses. Tri-captains Mike Townsend, Dave Casper, and Frank Pomarico will be missed along with defensive back Tim Rudnick and linebacker Gary Potempa. However, this list, while formidable, constitutes only five of last season's 22 starters. 
The area of immediate concern may be the kicking game where both punter Brien Doherty and placekicker Bob Thomas will be 
graduating . Both ranked within Townsend, and Pomarico. the top ten in the nation in their "Hopefully we'll be able to particular categories this past duplicate the leadership on last 
season, and the importance of their year's squad," he said. "I feel the contributions places added 
monogram winners made an ex­pressure on the coaching staff to cellent choice in selecting Tom come up with a replacement next Clements and Greg Collins as the year. 
team captains for the upcoming season, and I think they will"I've emphasized time again the provide us with the leader­importance of the kicking game," shipqualities we will need."
noted Parseghian. "This year we lost Bob Thomas and Brian Doherty, who did an excellent job, While the only improvement and center Joe Alvarado who also on 11-o can be 12-o, Parseghian, 
played a very important role in like most good coaches, sees room handling the snaps, something for needed adjustments and the people tend to overlook. avoidance of certain pitfalls this 
spring. "Right now the heir apparent to 
"Just because we were suc­the punting position seems to be cessfullast year, and a player had 
Tony Brantley who has performed consistently well for us over the a good year won't mean he'll 
automatically have a good one thispast year. Placekicker is wide year. We have to avoid that, andopen. As a matter of fact, for the we'll do it by giving each playerfirst time in my career as a college more of challenge at his position,coach, I've awarded a grant-in-aid and we'll align our personnel soto a high school placekicker." 
we can do this. A great believer in leadership "We're striving for a better among his team captains, Ara · 
defense and a better offense,"finds it a crucial situation con­continued Ara. "And we want to 
sidering the loss of Casper, (continued on page 15) 






