On The Inside 
Streaking nationalized •.. page 4 Denver review ... page 8 
Vol. VIll, No. 93 
~--...------­

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
HPC endorses 'energy czar' proposal 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents Council last night endorsed Fr. James F. Flanigan's proposal to create the position of ';student energy czar" within each residence hall. 
The czars will be responsible for investigating areas of energy waste in their halls and for initiating programs and methods of reducing such waste. They will be appointed by their hall presidents, and their names will be given to the new University Energy Conservation Committee, of which Flanigan is chairman. The czars will be able to contact the committee for information and suggestions regarding the problems of their halls. 
Flanigan said that he has not yet contacted the rectors about the matter, because he "wanted to act through the hall presidents, who may be more effective in getting to the students and gaining their coopea tion." 
Flanigan asserted that "the waste we have on this campus is largely electrical" rather than thermal. He explained that this condition is due to the fact that heat energy is actually produced as a by-product of generating electricity by steam driven tur­bines. 
The most effective way for the individual student to conserve energy, according to Flanigan. is by doing "simply things like turning lights off when leaving rooms, using natural light as much as possible, and reducing the use of high-energy appliances." He also urged the presidents to remind the students to empty their 

refrigerators and unplug them 
during the spring break if possible. 
Flainigan noted that the residence halls were not the largestusers ofenergy on campus. "They only consume about one­third of the energy used, but everywhee we can cutback helps." He continued to explain that each of the other buildings on campus has a "building reporter" who is in charge of maintenence. These men have been contacted by the enrgy committee and are now also 
responsible for investigating . evergy waste: 
The enrgy committee was set up by Fr. Hesburgh, Flanigan ex­plained, "too see if we are being prudent users of natural resources on campus, and if not to see what can be done about it." He said that the committee's effort so far has consisted of "trying to raise the consciousness of everyone on this matter and to illicit voluntary cooperation from the students." 
Flanigan insisted that the efforts of the energy committee "should not to be interpreted as an economy measure on the part of the university. In fact, at times conserving energy proves to be more expensive." 
In other business, HPC Chair­man Pat McLaughlin announced that Dr. Phillip Faccenda, vice president of student affairs, will attend the council's next meeting on March 19. He will attend to respond the methods of easing the current housing problems suggested in a letter he receved from McLaughlin several weeks ago. 

NCCJL holds first session of hearings on prison reform 
by Leanne Jacques Staff Reporter 

The first session of the Citizen's Hearings On Corrections in In­diana was held Tuesday, March 5 at the Center for Continuing Education. Sponsoring this two­day conference are the National Coordination Committee for Justice Under Law <NCCJL) and the Notre Dame Program in Nonviolence. Co-chairmen of the hearings are Professor Basil O'Leary (Program in Non­violence) and George Mische (NCCJL). 
The purpose of these sessions is to discuss the goals of the .NCCJL These goals includes serching for alternatives to prison, congressional consulting on prisons and public education. 
Central topics covered by various speakers at Tuesday's sessions were Prision Population (Juvenile, Adult and Female Offenders); Prison Operations and Services (Administrative Per­sonnel, Programming, and Community Accessibility); Prisoner's Rights <Punishment vs. 
Treatment, Physical Conditions, and Prisoner Grievances); and Release Programs (Community Release, Community Acceptance and Recidivism). The speakers ranged in fields from law en­forcement to the ministry and education. 
Vernaon Loue, Director of the Urban Work Release Program in South Bend, said, "Community based programs such as work release are viewed as alternatives to prison. It makes more sense to release a person over a tran­sitional period where he can establish and occupation and develop good work habits. The uniqueness of the Indiana Work Release Program in South Bend is that it is operated under a con­tractional basis." This program is self -sufficient. 
Vaughn C. Overstreet, Director of the Indiana Divison of Progation, views rehabilitative programs as "Integration Programs." The program's goal is the reassertion of the individual into the community in a more meaningful way. Overstreet stated, "It is easy to criticize traditional programs and much more difficult to support a proposal of real change. The problems with corrections today goes back to the people. No program can survive without the support of the people." 
Professor Robert Vasoli, Dept. of Sociology, talking on recidivism said, "It represents the only ob­jective way of evaluating all these programs we've been talking about." 
Recidivism statistics are very much overstated. Professor Vasoli believes that these statistics are not a very· "accurate indicator of the .success of our prisons." He said, "the variations of the meaning of recidivism can affect the statistics." Recidivism is defined as reverting back to crime within a certain period of time or returning to prison. ' 
Vasoli stated, "Despite this, recidivism is still the criterion we use to evaluate our prisons, thus we should correctly define it." 
The Wednesday, March 6, program for the Citizens' Hearings 
On Corrections In Indiana will cover Alternative Approaches from 9 a.m.-1 p.m. and Stategies for Change from 2 p.m. -6 p.m. 
Wednesday, March 6, 1974 

Observer announces new staff changeover 

Tom Drape (left), a junior American Studies major, assumes the position of Observer editor-in-chief March 20, replacing senior Jerry Lutkus (right) due to graduation. 
Beginning after semester break the new editorial board will assume responsibility for te publication of The Observer. Replacing senior Jerry Lutkus as editor-in-chief is Tom Drape, a junior American Studies major from Kansas City, Missouri. Lutkus has served as editor-in-chief since last year and is stepping down due to graduation. 
Marlene Zloza will assume duties as managing editor. Zloza, who served as associate editor this year will replace senior Joe Abell. ' 
But~h Ward, A senior from Baltimore, Mayland, is steppmg down as Observer editorial editor. He will be replaced by Ann McCarry whose duties as managing editor included wire editor. 4 
Terry Keeney, a sophomore who has served as day I editor and copy editor thisyear will become the news editor replacing Drape. 
Kathy Schwille, as St. Mary's senior from Roanoke 

l 
Virginia, will be replaced as features editor by Robert I Baker. Baker, who has been Monday night 'editor this semester, will be assisted by Contributing Editor Fred Graver, a frequent contributor to the features page this year. 

j 
Retiring as executive editors are seniors Dan Barrett and Art Ferranti. Both Barrett and Ferranti have served the Observer in numerous capacities for four years. 
AI Rutherford, the sophomore Thursday night editor this semester, will assume a newly-created position as special projects editor in charge of the Course Evaluation booklet and Observer supplements. 
Bill Brink, a Westport, Connecticut native, will become the senior night editor. Brink was Wednesday night editor this semester. 
Jeanne Murphy, a staff reporter and day editor, will take the post of copy editor. Murphy will assume the duties of the present wire editor in addition to being charged with enforcing writing style. 
Pattie Cooney will replace Maria Gallagher as St. Mary's editor. 
V~c Dorr, Observer sports editor will step down. 
Jumor Greg Corgan from Wychoff, New Jersey will 
replace Dorr. 
The new photography editor is Zenon Bidzinski. He will be assisted by Chris Smith. They both replace Joe Raymond the head photographer this year. 

Today's issue of the 
Observer will be the last until Wednesday. March 20 
! 
f 
~ 
t 
! I 
f 
Wednesday, March 6, 1974

the observer 


warld 
briefs 
PARIS <UPI>-A three-nation panel of 40 aviation experts convened Tuesday to determine if a mechianical defect or a saboteur's bomb forced a Turkish Airline DC-10 to crash Sunday in the history's worst air disaster. 
AKRON, OHIO <UPI>-A $2 million extortion plot against the publisher. of the Akron Beacon Journal was foiled Tuesday with the arrest of a man claiming to be a member of the American Revolutionary Party. 
George Wallace Baleke, 43, was charged with ex­tortion after telephone calls were made to area broadcasting stations threatening the kidnapping of Ben Maidenburg, the publisher, and his son. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-The Watergate case has become embroiled in another major legal battle, this time over the dispostion of a secret grand jury report said to detail President Nixon's hadnling of the Watergate cover-up.
A grand jury gave the report to Chief U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica Friday, and sources said it asked him to send it to the House Judiciary Committee, which is studying Nixon's possible impeachment. Sirica had a number of options, any one of which might result in appeal to higher courts. 
an campus t:aday 
9:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m.--hearings, citizens' hearings on corrections In Indiana, "alternative approaches," cce 
12:15 p.m.--seminar, "the transfer of drug resistance and chromosomal genes between pseudomonas and other bacteria," by dr. ronald olsen, microbiology dept., u. of mlch., sponsored by the microbiology dept., refreshments 11:45 rm. 109, room 102, 
lobund lab 

2:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m.--hearings, citizens' hearings on corrections In Indiana, "strategies for change," and open discussion, cce 
4:15 p.m.--reilly lecture "reduction of turbulent drag In suspensions and In polymer solutions--new developments on a tired problem," by arthur b. metzner, coffee hour 3-4, conference room, radiation lab 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "american philosophy and the Incantational 
model," by prof. r. barry, Ioyoia u., as part of the american scene series, carroll hall 
8:00 
p.m.--film, "prime cut," with lee marvin and gene hackman, sponsored by the nd cheerleaders, rated r, eng. aud. $1.00 

8:00 
p.m.--lecture, "contemporary photography," by prof. thomas strltch, art gallery • 

8:00 
p.m.--panel discussion, "watergate violence," with peri ar­nold, stanley hauerwas and howard relter, sponsored by the program In non-violence, library lounge 

8:00 
p.m.--panel discussion, "the new academic manual as a statement of governance" with rev. james burtchaell, prof norman haaser, jerry jones, prof. james robinson, sponsored by the nd chapter, american assoc. of university professors, 


university club 

8:15 p.m.--recital, robert portney, violin; arlene portney, plano, little theater, $1.00 
J0:30 p.m.--coffeehouse, pop farley's coffeehouse, farley hall 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club, rm 204, eng. build. 
Board meets over break 
by Mary Donnelly James Burtchaell and Fr. 
Staff Reporter 
Theodore Hesburgh. The agenda for the conference 

While the Notre Dame student cannot be released to the public.
body is relaxing and forgetting the problems awaiting their return after Spring Break, the concern of du Lac will be number one on the list of 15 members of the Board of Trustees' Executive Committee. 
The Committee will hold one of four regular yearly meetings on the weekend of March 15 and 16 
Among the regular· comnfi.tee members ara-Fr. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester (S14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre. Dame Indiana 46556. Second clas~ postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 



Utah Ski Trip 
LAST DOWNPAYMENT 
7 pm today Lafortune 
~~.~--------------~--------~~-r~_J 
Experimental 



dorm to open next fall for SMC seniors 
by Judy Peterson Staff Reporter 

An experimental dormitory is scheduled to open next fall for SMC seniors in Augusta Hall, pending approval from the committee of Hall Life. Between 40-44 students are needed to make the project successful. Presently 48 girls have signed up as prospective oc­cupants. 
The original proposal was submitted to Dr. Henry last December by Marty Kabbes, President of Le Mans Hall. Dr. Henry voiced his approval and referred it to the Committee of Hall Life set up by the Board of Regents. 
According to Kabbes, "the dorm will be experimental in the sense that there will be no hall director or resident advisors. With the exception of the rule concerning male visitation hours, all regulations will be made and enforced by the students within thehall and individual sections." 
The first two floors will serve as community gathering areas in the form of TV and game rooms while the third and fourth floors will be used as living quarters. Kabbes expressed hope "that we will be able to coordinate and plan ac­tivities with the nuns who will continue to live in the South end of Augusta." 
Another suggestion has been the implementation of a weekly facutly forum. 
by Susan Divita Staff Reporter 
In response to The Observer editorial about the basketball team and Greensboro, head basketball coach, Digger Phelps said he isn't thinking that far ahead, but taking one game at a time. Digger said his main preoccupation right now was winning this Saturday at Terra Haute. 
"Beating this team is first on the schedule before advancing any further, " he said. 
Digger stated that trying to think about Greensboro right now was like trying to predict what was going to happen in the year 1980, when there are still seven years left to live. Digger can't help but wonder why everyone is worrying already about a game that is three bit games away. 


SWING INTO SPRING ON ANEW BIKE 
f..-. 'I 
Wednesday, March 6, 1974 
the observer 

McLaughlin seeking SG workers 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 

Newly elected Stude!lt Body President Pat McLaughlin has announced that all people in­terested in working in StudP.nt Government should submit their names to the student government office either in person or by telephone (283-7668) before noon this Friday, March 8. 
McLaughlin explained that he has not yet set up any specific commissions or departments with definite positions to be filled. Instead, he listed seven general areas in which applicants may express interest to work: academic, administrative, campus 
Nominations open for board 
Nominations for three positions on the Student Board of Gover­nance will open Tuesday, March 19 at 8:00 a.m , and close Saturday, March 25, at midnight. The positions available are Chairman of the Student Board of Gover­nance. Student Affairs Com­missioner and Hal~ Life Com­missioner. 
Campaigning begins Sunday, March 24, at 8:00a.m. and closes Saturday, March 25 at midnight. 
Elections will be held Thursday, 
March 28, from 10:00 a.m. until 
6:00 p.m., in all the halls. 
The three positions are open to this year's sophomores. and juniors. Anyone interested may contact Patti Kampsen, Box 910 LM, ext. 5704. 
projects.
life, huma;n affiars, judicial, off­The campus life area covers the

campus hfe, and ombudsman social and cultural aspects ofservice. 

student life, including coeducation, The academic area would in­·parietals, party houses and socialclude such subjects as pass fail gatherings, as well as housingoption reform, calendar revisions, problems.
and course evaluation. 

The human affairs area includesThe administrative area en­such projects as freshman
compasses public relations, orientation, activities night, thecommunication between variou s coex program, LaFortune ac­student groups and organizations tivities, and minority group af­<HPC, SLC, etc.), and special 

Class officerpetitions in LaFortune Center 
Jerry Samaniego, this year's Senior Class President, announced today that those interested in running for either Junior or Senior class office must begin to organize their platform. Samaniego stated that anyone considering running for class office must pick up a petition form at the student government office located on the 3rd floor of the Lafortuene center. 
The possible candidates must get 50 signatures for each office from students in their respective class. All petitions must be returned to the Student Government office by 
5:00 p.m. on March 27. Cam­paining will begin on Thursday, March 28 and will continue untill Tuesday April 2 at 11:00 p.m. 
The election will be on Wed­nesday April 3. 
As a quick review of the major duties undertaken by each class, Samaniego offered the following outline. The Junior Class is primarily concerned with arrangements for Junior Parents Weekend. Anyother projects will be left up to the imagination of the Junior Class officers themselves. 

However the duties for the Senior Class officers consist of: 1) organizing a Senior trip, traditionally an away football game; 2) supervising the selection procedures for the Honorary Doctorate Award; 3) organization of the Senior Death March in the fall and Senior Week in the spring; 
4) handling the selection procedures for the Senior Calss Fellow ; and 5) offering assistance with all necessary arrangements for graduation. 
Samaniego emphasized that the elections will be on Wednesday, April 3, 1974. He also stressed that anyone interested must get their petition, fill it out and return it to the Student Government office no 
later than Wednesday, March 27, at 5:00p.m. 
AAUP panel discusses neW" acade1nic manual tonight 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
The local chapter of the American Association of University Professors will sponsor a panel discussion entitled, "The New Academic Manual and Governance at Notre Dame," tonight at the University Club at 8 p.m. 
Prof. Dennis Dugan, chairman of the AAUP at Notre Dame will moderate the panel, consisting of: 
Prof. Jerome Haasar, current chairman of the Faculty Senate; Prof. Gerald Jones, last year's Faculty Senate chairman and faculty spokesman during the Academic Commission's work on the academic manual last year; Prof. James Robinson, who wrote major portions of past faculty manuals; and University Provost Fr. James Burtchaell. 
Each panel member will offer a different perspective on the new academic manual. 
"The panel's point of interest is the potential status of government at the University," Dugan said. "We'll look not at what the new manual says, but what it means." 
The new academic manual is the product of nearly an entire year's work by the Academic Council last year. 
Dugan characterizes the manual as an elaborate organizational chart for the -University, describing various administrators and their function, various faculty posts, and membership and func­tion of the various university committees. 
The manual contains factors determining student, faculty and administration interaction. 
The stated position :ef the AAUP on university government is one of shared responsibility, where faculty members have a major input into the whole process of educational endeavor. 
Dugan raised the question "Is that shared responsibility cap­tured ·in the academic manual?" 
The faculty received copies of the new academic manual last October, so it is still a relatively new document to them. According to Dugan, a limited number of faculty members were involved in the formation of the document. 

Of those faculty members involved in the Academic Council's deliberations last year, Prof. Gerald Jones presented the Faculty Senate's position on such matters an appointments and promotions policies, policies requiring reasons for the ter­mination of a faculty member's position, student and faculty representation on the Board of Trustees, and a University Budget Committee with student and faculty representation. 
"We lost on most issues," Prof. Jones commented. On Wednesday night, each panel member will present his perspective on the new manual for about 10 minutes, directly followed by comments from other panel members. Panel members will then answer questions from the floor. 
Though the panel discussion is primarily intended for faculty members, it is open to the public. 


Please -Take Note! 
Anyone wishing to serve on the Judicial Board 
for 74-75 is asked to submit their name, 
address, and phone number to the Student Gov't Office by Friday, March 22 at 5 pm 
ali.".G 3>.i..t'O~ ..• 31.JlJ.MK> 3HT Vl:O 
fairs. 
The judicial area covers the revision of the judicial code, legal aid to students, and hall judicial boards. 
The off-campus life area en­compasses several projects, in­cluding the publication of food prices, research into alternative means of transportation and food co-op, legal services, increased community protection, and an off­campus newsletter. 
The ombudsman service area involves answering student questions and solving student problems of all kinds. 
McLaughlin explained that he and vice president elect Frank Flanigan will set up specific departments and positions once they see how many people are interested in working in the various areas. "The only p~ople who have definite jobs right now ae Frank and 1," emphasized McLaughlin. 
"We would like to get as many people as we can involved in student government," said McLaughlin. "We will try to find a place for all those wo apply. We need people who are interested in student life and willing to work." 
McLaughlin and Flanigan will personally interview each of the applicants after the spring break to determine placement within the student government. "These in­terviews will not be so much of an acceptance or rejection of the ap­plicants, but rather a method of 
findicg_ a place for them, said McLaughlin. 
5 ACADEMY AWARD NOMINATIONS --! INCLUDING: BEST PICTURE BEST DIRECTOR i 
& BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS I
I 
307 ~. Micltican St. 28i-1800 
HELD OVER!



(jt!OI!F.ATRI 
OPEN 7:00 


flrttfOflt 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available c.t a special discount to all students and em­ployees of N_otre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Rad1al, and Import car tires; at your special prke. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
NOW RENTING 
c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:M + SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUit...DING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM u APARTMENTS 
+ AIR CONDITIONING
s 
+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 


v 
+ REFRIGERATOR 
+ GARBAGE DISPOSAL I + TENNIS COURT 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM
E 
CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH
w 
THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south-· bend· · ' 
the observer 


Campus streaking turns political 
By United Press International Confederate flag. acknowledged as the official University of Georgia students this type of activity. Any
Nude campus frolicking took Paul Matthias, vice chairman organization of this movement angered over the arrest of a offender will be subject to a political turn Tuesday when a of student government at the and that student governments naked runner, and at Carson­suspension from the college."
call went out for a massive University of Pennsylvania in recognize and endorse our 
Newman College in Tennessee A student radio station at St."impeachment" streak around Philadelphia, put out the call philosophy of attempting to officials of the Baptist-support­Louis (Mo.) University, announ­the White House to get for the "impeachment streak," force President Nixon out from ed institution warned students ced, meanwhile, that it has
President Nixon "out from urging that it be conducted behind the towel." 
that streaking was out. established "The National Col­behind the towel." April 1-April Fools Day. More than 500 streakers Dr. John A. Fincher, presi­legiate Streaking Association" 
Like spring, the streaking fad The student leader, angered staged a nude carnival at the dent of Carson~Newman, told and would rank the top ten was "busting out all over," and over Watergate, announced University of South Carolina students: "I am unalterably streaking colleges weekly.
formation of a "Streak for Monday night featuring a
coeds, as well as their male opposed to this conduct and will The station, KBIL, said a 
counterparts, joined in the Impeachment Committee "Tarzan," a dozen nude coeds be forced to deal strongly with national champion would be 
naked antics-which in the long (SIC)," and said, "we feel and several naked motorcy­any individuals who can be named in June, before schools ago of last month went by the larger mass demonstrations of clists. "Tarzan", at one point, identified as participating in recess for the summer. 
label of indecent exposure. streaking in the United States climbed atop an information 
With the fad showing every can accomplish much in the booth so admirers could take sign of spreading far beyond political arena." his picture. the campus, the Fifth District "Matthias said Lady Godiva Some streakers, however, 
Police station in St. Louis established the political impor­were not nearly so well reported Tuesday that two nude tance of streaking, and added: received. Police in Athens, Ga., males-one slightly overweight "We propose that SIC be used tear gas to disperse -streaked through the station house about 1 a.m. 
In Des Moines, shoppers at 
Break hours posted

the Merle Hay Mall stared in astonishment as three naked youths dressed in black socks and tennis shoes -raced 


by caznpus facilities 
through the shopping center. 
A University-o( Missouri Staying over break? You might The post office is attempting to women's group, calling itself be interested in knowing the hours find mail carriers for each hall the Intramural Coed Under­of various facilities on campus over break. If any hall does not ground Streaking League which will be open for your con­ahave a carrier for break, mail 
(ICUSL) promised a mass venience. may be picked up at he post office. streak later Tuesday night and said it was shooting at a 
The Huddle will be open from The pay cafeteria will be openworld's record. 
eiht to four on weekdays and closed from 7:30am to 9:30pm daily, and 
The first daylight streakers 

on Saturdays and Sundays. from 7:30 am to 7:30 pm on surfaced in Columbia, Mo., 
The golf Shop will be open from Saturday and Sunday. A full Monday when several men, eight to four. schedule of pay caf hours can be attired in motorcycle helmets 
found on page five in the telephone 
with wind guards, put in an The bookstore will be closed on directory.
appearance. 
March 14 and 15 but will keep its 

Memorial Library will be open
The old promise that the regular hours form nine to five 
from eight to five on weekdays and 
' South will rise again" also during the week. 
Saturdays and closed on Sunday.
had a fleeting rebirth when another Columbia streaker The ACC will be open from Hours for the Rock will be post~ stepped forth wearing a stock­Monday to Saturday, eight to five sometime Wednesday or Thur­
ing cap and carrying a and from one to five on Sunday. sday. 
ID 

IDCIY MDUNTIIN WIST IITB DLIIDUB IIDIZINI IT Seot_tsdaJe, ~II 
HEY GALS Come experience and be a part of the Great Rocky Mountain West at GLAMOUR'S Rocky Mountain West Festival, March 26-30. GLAMOUR Magazine and Scottsdale Mall team up to invite you to be a GLAMOUR model during the Rocky Mountain West festivaL'.r.·: clnterested.•.give us a call .~t_29 ~-7~_1_j7 ~~Y,_. day_. be!~ ~~~ 8 ~·:~~ ~~d 5:'39_ .Q~'!l··....
1 


Wednesday, March 6, 1974 
the observer 

Stepan used as party site 
were people continuously playing present had a great time. The an idea for a party should ap­by Chris O'Brien records and it was mostly a crowd did not come and then proach the Dean of Students, and Staff Reporter leave early: they stayed the entire Macheca will help out. "If you
dancing party. Schroer repeatedly night." have your party well planned andThis past weekend, a first oc­stressed however, "The reason it within the University guidelines,curred at Notre Dame which some worked out so well, was because it 
people hope will start a new trend In direct contrast to the Flanner you will hve no problems," Foster 
was well planned, but even more 
on campus in social activities. The party, but also a first, was the Glee stressed again.
so, because it was a private party, 
first was a private party in Stepan Club Ball in the Lafortune On the subject of using
The main attraction of the private Ballroom. With printed in­University buildings such a sCenter. 
party is that each of the people vitations, gentlemen dressed in Stepan and LaFortune for oartiesattending was a friend of one of the 
"The idea of a party was not a white ties and tails, fountains of Fr. Schlaver explained, "These
six organizers, so there was no
new one," said Fr. Schlaver, wine and champagne, and even a activities are a good idea. :Some
trouble."
Director of Student Activities , 'heralder', the "Evening with parties have taken place earlier in "but the new element was that Strauss" was, even though a LaFortune, like Sorin's two parties
When asked about any problems 

beer was served." contrast, just as successful as the in the basement, and they were big
that occured, Schroer answered, Flanner party. successes. We want people to The party was organized by six "Except for the fact that we had to know that there are things that can 
students from the seventh floor of turn about 30 people away who did The reason for the great success be done socially outside of their Jordan Ford 
not have tickets, there were no
Flanner, who approached John of the ball, according to Bob dorms." 609 East Jefferson Mishawaka Macheca with the idea. "Each of problems. In fact the party came Foster, VP of the Glee Club, was 
the guys was allowed to distribute off so well that we are tentatively "There was no problems; it was 50 tickets," explained Craig planning another one later in the well planned. In fact when I ap­
School house Too

Schroer, one of the organizers. semester." proached Mr. Macheca in early "An additional 50 tickets were Fr. Schlaver commented on the February about it, I even had the 
In the Brewery

printed, so there were about 350 amount of liquor for each person people there," continued Schroer. party by saying, "It was a very figured out down to the glass." 
100 Center Complex 

There was not band, but there well organized and planned and all Foster feels that anyone who has 
Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 

The midwest's most complete





Shriver to speak in March 
needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation 
of student I D 

"All the panelists discussing the On March 22, the second group of 
by Jack D'Aurora Brown case had a specific relation speakers will be "involved with 
HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm

Staff Reporter to the case," says Wise. "Each contemporary problems in will make a brief presentation education," says Wise. "Their discussion will be broader than
explaining their role in the case and

TheRon. R. Sargent Shriver will just desegregation and will follow
then express their reflections on

speak on the Role of Executive the format of the Brown
what they thought would happen VIRGIL FOX 1
Leadership," as the third in a discussion."
and what actually did occur."

series of annual civil rights lec­The civil rights center will be 
RETURNS!

tures sponsored by the law school An exchange between the dedicated at a banquet March 22, on March 21 and 22. speakers will follow, after which at which former Associate Justice to According to Michael B. Wise, the speakers will break off into of thz Supreme Court Arthur J. assistant director the smaller groups for questions and Goldberg will speak. After the Bethel College
of Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights, answers. dinner, held in the Kresge Law "Shriver will concentrate on Library, Goldburg's speech will 
presidential leadership. His The Brown case was the land­open to students. 
Friday 8:00 p.m. March 22, 1974

lecture should be more popular mark 1954 Supreme Court decision 
Glickstein speculates that he 
stating that separate but equal is

and stimulating than the two "will give his reflections on where 
previous lectures , which were inherently unequal, thus reversing 
$3.00 Adults $2.00 Students

we are 20 years after the Brown 
rather heavy. We've asked him to its former ruling of "separate but 
decision, giving a broader view of 
be more anecdotal." equal" educatior.with the Plessy 
the situation in civil rights, not just 
vs. Ferguson case.

"He will also discuss," says in education." 
Goodman Auditorium Bethel College 

Wise, "The political realities of Shriver will speak at 8:00pm in 
Group Rates Available!
"The Brown case is possible

leadership -how much of a stand a the library auditorium on the 21st
the most important Supreme Court 
Purchase tickets at Fine Arts Office

politician can take on civil rights." and at 3:30pm in the Center for
decision of the century," says 
For Information Call 259-8511 extext. 66

Shriver's lecture will be part of a Continuing Education on the
Howard Glickstein, director of the 

civil rights conference sponsored twenty-second.
center, "and most civil rightsby the civil rights center. On decisions today are a result of it."

March 21, specialists in the areas of law, education and civil rights "It accomplished what most will examine the famous Supreme people say couldn't be done. Court case of "Brown vs. the Everyone thought school Topeka Board of Education" and segregation would be a bloody its ramifications. The next day, a revolution,'' continued Glickstein. similar group of experts will "But today, in large, segregation discuss "Current Issues in has been eliminated, although not Desegregation and Equal all problems the Brown case was Educational Opportunity." aimed at are yet solved." 
NOW RtNIING c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:
M 
+ 
SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING 

+ 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOMu APARTMENTS 


+ AIR CONDITIONING
s 
+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 


v 
+ REFRIGERATOR 
+ GARBAGE DISPOSAL I + TENNIS COURT 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM
E 
CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH
w 
THE STUDENT IN MIND 
II 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south bend· 
Student Government  
Needs People  
Applications being accepted  
in the following areas  
Ombudsman Service Campus life Off-campus life Human Affairs Academic Judicial Administrative  
Please submit name, address, and phone number along  
with your area of interest to the Student Gov't Office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune or call 283-7668 by Friday, March 8 at noon. For further information and details on the above  , , ~  
mentioned areas see the Student Gov•t Secretary.  j  


-·-~---­

·------------· 


THE OBSERVER 
AI\! INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti  Jerry Lutkus  Dan Barrett  
Executive Editor  Editor-in-Chief  Executive Editor  
Lee Gentine Business Manager  NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471  John Kloos Advertising Manager  

Wednesday, March 6, 1974 

fram theeditar!ls desk: 
One More Time 
Looking back at nearly four years as a college student and a year as editor of this paper, too many recollections can really confuse your mind. But one stands out best-Notre Dame is a good place, but in so many ways, it can be so much better. Hopefully, the University will look to these ideas in the next year and again hopefully, it will help move Notre Dame into a more superior position. 
The SLC must move into a revision of the Judicial Code to better protect the students' rights. The proposal submitted by Ed Rahill during the SBP campaign is as good an idea for revision as has come along in my four years here. The student must further be protected with coun­seling prior to his disciplinary hearing and a clear idea of the appeal routes are open to him. 
The off-campus student must be better protected. The idea initiated by Ray Capp also during the SBP campaign is one that must bear serious consideration. Though by no means is the o-c student thrown into some unbelievable hell, some actions must be taken to provide him with better University services. Too often the o-c student moves off and completely divorces himself from the school. 
The LaFortune Renovation Project must be given swift approval. The proposal has sat in the docket far too long. It is an excellent study with well­founded recommendations. The delay on implemention serves merely to increase an immense frustration which has been harbored in the student population throughout the year. 
This frustration has been ignored for so long that it is becoming a huge problem. So many student initiatives have been shut down or stalled in administration proceedings this year that the frustration that builds becomes destructive. 
The LaFortune Project was stalled­intentionally or not-and the frustration that built is destructive. The Dean of Students office has proceeded in a fashion that they think is proper, but their silence on issues and their actions have often cast a shadow of doubt on their in­tentions. 
All of these things add up to a building frustration in the students of Notre Dame. It seems that this frustration began a few years ago with Fr. James Burtchaell's recitation of "In Loco Parentis." On paper it says that the University becomes your parent but in essence it means that the students are merely children-or considered children. Burtchaell reaffirmed this idea when in his address at the opening Mass of this year, he refered to the students as moral troglodytes. 
Frustration begins with this kind of attitude. The attitude sweeps through policies-like the calendar where the student-or children-side was literally ignored. And the frustration builds. 
It just shouldn't be that way! Without this frustration and seeming impotency, Notre Dame could be a much healthier place, but the only way to change it is in these attitudes. Can they be changed? 
Four years here is a long time. I debate in ·my mind whether the frustration I feel is the result of four years at Notre Dame or four years in college and I tend to think it's the latter. But despite this personal feeling, I think that things can be changed at Notre Dame. I hate to sound so op­timistic, but this is a good place and it can be better. 
The impetus for progressive change cannot only come from the students, for it seems to always come from them. The administration must make a similar effort. As long as people feel the way they do, someone, somewhere has got to be doing something wrong. Consider it please and think about it. Are we con­tinually attacking the symptoms and not the causes of the problem? I think so. Laws regarding parties attack a symp­tom, but they don't attack the big problem of why people here need to drink, or why they lack sexual partnership or even why there is a lack of the basics of a normal, happy, healthy existence. 
This is a wonderful place, but it's time that we all made it better. The feeling comes over me that as I finish this I know that I'm happy I've been here, but it time to leave and to move on. 
-Jerry Lutkus 


MilesTa Ga... 

The Poobah in Us All 
butch ward 
The tape is still hanging on a few walls, and there's an isolated reminder of candidacy lingering in a few stairwells, but it's been a week now since the first vote was taken. And it's been five days since 
the student body overwhelmingly gave its support to Pat McLaughlin as the nemt student body president. 
In essence, students have given the first signs in three years that they see hope in a traditionally operated student government. They did not have to look outside of the announced field of candidates to find a man capable of being their spokesman. 
And that's a beginning. 

But it's only that. It's only a beginning because there is still a significant number of people here who believe the only valid student government is the non-existent one. It was these people that elected the campus' first monarch, and chose to give that regime of inactivity a vote of confidence last year with the blank ballot campaign. 
And those people made a point-a good one.Student Government and the people in it, should never value themselves more than the people they represent. 
From the appearances of this last campaign, it seems to me that campus politicians have learned that lesson. They exhibited a knowledge more than ever before that it is the student body that has the choice of candidates, and that the student body must be convinced that they are the focal point of the poobah 's interests. 
And yet despite this apparent change in attitude, and the resulting vote of over 3500 people for candidates who professed a serious outlook on the office there were seeking, there still prevails an attitude on campus that all Notre Dame students involved in politics are pom­pous, self-rightous egotists. 
That seems unfair to limit such adjectives to so exclusive a group. Let me be first to join the possessors of such qualities. 
After all, I have been counted among the ranks of two of the most self-righteous groups on this campus-the poobahs and the journalists. And I'd be hard-pressed to decide which group has been more dependendent on my possession of those qualities. 
Self-righteous? And egotist? My readers need look no further than the top of this column to find my likeness emblazoned above words so humble as to beg of you, "read me. I have something to say." How bold and foolish for any person to think that he has the right to ask that of any other person. How extremely egotistic to think that what I have to say can possibly withstand the intelligent criticism of the Notre Dame community of thought. 
And yet, days pass, and the columns I've written mount up; the same picture tries the eyesight of countless students as they jUdge the content and write me off as egotistical, self-righteous and pompous. And still I go on. 
I'd have to say that the reflective comments that I just expressed should be resented far more vehemently than any of the opinions I've ventured to impart on these pages this year. For an intelligent com­munity appreciates the opportunity to reflect, to judge -but not the writer-rather, the intelligent community judges the writer's work. 
So it should be with the poobah. He deserves a fair shake. 
We are all egotists to some extent. From the most basic level of communication in ours halls, we at Notre Dame thrive on successful acknowledgement by our peers. When we fail to gather what we feel to be our rightful share of that acknowledgement, we are jealous. Thus we resent the poobah who forgets who put him in office; we resent the journalist who forgets that he is writing for an audience, and not merely his own entertainment and development as a writer. 
We are a demanding student body. Our existence here at dulac is largely based on success-both immediate and projected. Thus we become, by necessity, a student body whose individuals must assert their abilities. Individually. There is often no one to do it for us. Thus result the symptoms of an individually assertive group-jealousy, cynicism, resentment. There is only one saving grace for the person at Notre Dame who becomes noticeably assertive. Success. 
Athletes get away with it-if they win. Writers get away with it-if they hold interest. And even poohahs get away with it-but their task is a hard one. 
For they are dealing with demands and wishes--{}emands which often are feasible and wishes which will remain such until we all reunite around the throne. And the electorate often fails to distinguish between the two. The poobah had better attain both demands and wishes if he hopes to be acknowledge. 
And so they are not so different than any of us. They are ambitious­often rather selfless-just as we all are and can be. But they need a certain understanding, a certain acceptance as fellow members of our family here. If they are egotists, well, they certainly are satisfied very easily, for it's hard to see progress in a political jungle like this business here at ND. 
Pat McLaughlin is starting April 1 what will be a long year as president. Soon I'll be gone, and some else will place their picture above a collage of words so daringly called a "column." But all of us are saying the same thing to a group of people who are repeating those same words to all of their fellow associates. "Listen to me. I have 

the observer 

Night Editor: Albert D'Antonio Assistant Night Editor: Rick Blower Layout: Suzy Augustus, Molly Martin Copy Editor: Gary Allletta Day Editors: Jeanne Murphy, Val Zurblls Pictures: Albert D'Antonio Compugraphic: Joe Abell and Bob 
'Steinmetz -T.ypists: Tom ModgHRr-Bar& Haug, _.fTJ tfow&rd Halle, PJoe Abefr'· 11:1 Night Controller: Joe Abell 


~-~ 
Wednesday, March 6, 1974 the observer 7 
not voluntary funding. The student profane materialism which insists is required to go out of his way to on the necessity of educating the get his (her) money back if they masses in order to make them decide not to contribute. A much accept what is contrary to nature, more equitable amd truly becomes a sentimental humanism, voluntary system would be to with which official religion is include a special card with trying more and more to identify, registration materials. If the and is incompatible with the total student wished to contribute to truth, and consequently with total InPirg, they could fill out the card charity for the simple reason that and would be billed later. Those the material well-being of man is who did not fill out the card would not the whole of well-being and not be cilled. does not in fact coincide with the 
The concept of a Public Interest whole interest of the immortal Research Group may have some person.merit. Certainly it is more The faithful have had imposed on 
desirable to have such research
Realizing that I do not know stands in its reporting. Articles them so many atrocities that it is
Just a Rumor conducted by private individuals
everyone, I asked a few other like the one Wednesday indicate a now believed to be necessary to 
rather than by the government.
government majors if they lack of regard for this most basic lower the level of the liturgy, and 
But most important, lnPirg should 
Dear Editor: recognized any professors in the moral duty of any news reporting even of the whole of religion for We would like to comment on department. Negative. In fact, agency. take care to operate in the their use. This is all the more yesterday's editorial directed at only one member of the entire John Lalley "student interest" by making its absurd for the fact that the people Coach Phelps. Unfortunately, faculty was recognized. funding truly voluntary. still deserve something much 
a Sincererely yours,
misunderstanding of team Thus I am faced with a better than what these people wish matter resulted in rumors blown disheartening and very William N. Thee on them in the name of a perfectly entirely out of proportion. We discouraging frame of mind. Do Executive Secretary, Indiana unrealistic ideology; under the
Editor's Note: Charges leveled
appreciate the concern of the these men who express such avid Young Americans for Freedom pretense of introducing a liturgy on
against other candidates two
students, but we would like to concern in the classroom and a level with the people, it is the
nights prior to the article were also 
reassure everyone that there is no appear to have a firm conviction people who are forced to lower
investigated, but no substantiation
problem. The major concern of the about our country do so with actual for or against the charges on the Humanism themselves to the level of this 
team right now is our first tour­sincerity? Are they just as substitute liturgy, infernally in­
other candidates could be found.
nament game against Austin Peay. apathetic as so many others in the not to slant but to and Theology spired yet understandable on its
the intent was

Sincerely, country, incl!Jding students, who own plane. The fraudulent claims
rather clear charges on all can­
Greg Schmelzer themselves are searching for of these "humanists" seem im­
didates who were involved in the
Chris Stevens leaders when none are to be found. Dear Editor: mune from any cudgel for illusion;
forum at the Stanford-Keenan 
Kenneth Wolbeck Do actions really mean more than In response to Beppo Leonard's their breathtaking and vain im­
chapel.

words or does a mere rhetorical letter on the 12:15 "mass" at pertinence shows no courtesy lecture now and then suffice for Sacred Heart Celebrated by Fr. towards heaven to say nothing of being "involved"? Some Facts Toohey: the intellects they seduce to bask inHow 'bout Frats? labeled I 
welcome both printed and personal A sanctuary is like the out­illusions. responses. stretched arms of a mother and It has all been said before, Dear Editor, Thomas Demko About lnPIRG like the intimacy of ahome, and the Beppo; but I thought you might 
I would think that Fraternities 703 Flanner soul and the intelligence must be feel lonely with your very astute would make a move off-campus Dear Editor: able to rest in it. The shock of discernment. more appealing. Why haven't they I found your recent editorial sacred architecture, music, Michael Dongarra been suggested by the University Fair Reporting concerning lnPirg very in­symbols, etc. is that of benediction or anyone else? What has Bur­teresting. I feel, however, that you itself; it is direct and existential; it Ridding
chaell against them and what, in Dear Editor: failed to consider two very im­goes beyond thought and seizes our light of the present housing crisis, portant points with regard to the being in its very substance. What 
Alienation

would it take to over-ride any veto? A while back, a reporter asked lnPirg effort. is exteriorized in orthodox 
S. Shea the honorable Richard J. Daley, First, it might be useful to tradition is both doctrine and 
mayor of Chicago, about consider the performance of Pirg blessing, geometry and the music Dear Editor:Where were allegations that a certain firm of groups in the state of Michigan. In your on lecture
of heaven. 
article the

insurance brokers had been Last year M-Pirg (the Michigan Nothing is more monotonous 
series sponsored by the In­the Profs? awarded all the city's insurance Public Interest Research Group) than the illusions of originality ternational Student organization I 
business mainly because the conducted three main · found in a man who has been in­
was quoted to have said that there Dear Editor: mayor's sons worked for the firm. consumer studies. These studies doctrinated from childhood with a is a feeling of alienation right nowAnyone who has chosen a The mayor replied "What kind of a centered on the fast food industry, prejudice about "creative genius". 
between U.S. and foreign students. 
government course can testify to father is it that wouldn't help his the ambulance industry, and local That a collectivity should be The use of the work "alienation" inthe fact that the professors use sons if he got a chance?" landlords in the city of Ann Arbor. impermeable to spiritual values, the reported contest is, to the besttheir position to integrate the Being a life-long resident of Shortly after the issuance of these or that it should be vulgar and of my recollection, an inaccuracy.
current political situation in their Chicago, where such patronage reports, a Detroit newspaper blunted means nothing to these To alienation eternal
classes. As a student majoring in and partialism have been the facts revealed the fact that over 80 per people; they think it good simply me, is an 
problem that transcends national, government, I appreciate this of life longer than anyone cares to cent of the accusations made in becauseitembodiescontemporary cultural, and racial boundaries.
-

integration and find the professor's remember, I felt a touch of home these reports were totally without trends it becomes good form to While there may be inadequatecomments, both in class and out, to when I read page 1 of Wednesday's foundation. flatter the collective vanity on communication and understandingbe of tremendous benefit to my Observer (Feb. 27). The spark for My purpose in mentioning this every possible occasion. 
between American and in­education. This forum has been this sudden flame of homesickness fact is not to discredit the efforts of It would appear that the new ternational students, there is atutilized in a greater degree in more was the article in which charges InPirg on our 1campus,but to alert pastoral message is attempting to notime any feeling of alienation recent times when Watergate and against Ray Capp and Greg students to the fact that Public speak the language of the "world", that I can feel and share with other all its ramifications have en-Erickson's Stepan Center Interest Research Groups are not which has now come to be treated international students on campus.
veloped our government and, in proposal, leveled by other SBP the 'INFALLIBLE' as an honorable entity without If there were alienation, you mayfact, our whole way of life. candidates were found to be ORGANIZATIONS THAT SOME there being the slightest discer­be sure that our lectures, or anyreason
M a n y non -govern m en t groundless and unwarranted. The OF US MAY HAVE BEEN LED nible for this unexpected lectures, will not be able toprofessors have also made ex-article itself was a good job of TO BELIEVE. promotion which flies in the face of eliminate it. It is our wish,
tensive comments in class con-investigative reporting, and such My second point is more serious. all mainline traditions. With the however, that the lectures willcerning the current state of affairs reporting is one of the signs of Like the efforts several years ago relativistic adulteration that this help crosscultural
promote

ranging from an ethics lecture to good, healthy journalism. But the in Michigan, the Pirg organizers really implies one may indeed win 
awareness and dialogue for allthe economic consequences of fact that this article appeared in on the Notre Dame campus are adherants but not much more. It participants.
widespread political corruption. I The Observer at all, let along on making the same "deceptive" amounts straightaway to treating Thanks for the opportunity for assume all discussions originate page 1, seems to me to be one of the claim that the organization's religion as a neutral and putting my thought and wordswithin each professor's individual bestexamplesof partial journalism funding is voluntary. The fact of inoperative background for good back into proper context. 
concern and their own personal this side of the Chicago Tribune the matter is that InPirg fees are theater (e.g. the good father who attempt to transmit this feeling to which can put a Republican slant added to the student's bill in­on occasion interrupts his Lincoln Y. Mui the students, encouraging an at-onan obituary. I am not opposed to voluntarily. The student may palpatating lilt during the canon in mosphere of both knowledge and partial reporting, but it appears to "voluntarily" fill out a form to order to speak the words of con­participation. me just a trifle dishonest that The have the monev refunded. This is secration in Aramaic!). This 
I attended on March 3 , the Observer clings fast to its claims of formal and informal public ap-unbiased campaign news reporting pearance of Senator Charles Percy <lotteries for story position, etc.) of Illinois. Senator Percy has and then print such an obviously expressed interest in securing the slanted article (I emphasize I'm Republican nomination for the referring to news reporting and Presidency in 1976 and thus could investigating, not the editor's possibly one day be the most 'freedom to express whatever powerful man in the world. And they wish in their editorials which even if his presidential ambition is their right>. A truly impartial were zero, his position in the newspaper should either in­government can not go without vestigate all charges made by all recognition. Both the formal candidates against the others, or speech at Stepan Center and the else investigate none. The fact informal reception which im-that Capp ~and Erickson just mediately followed at Grace Hall, happen to be The Observer's provided an adequate amount of choice is interesting, as is the time for questions from the question would charges against audience. And what better way is any other candidate have been so there to know how a person views rapidly and thoroughly in­any number of issues than to ask vestigated, but these are still him directly and receive a full irrelevant to the bigger question of response a few seconds later? The Observer's impartiality. As Well, obviously most professors the most important source of would disagree with me. At both campus news for a lot of people,speech ~d rece~Uon, l.jiSW ,QPt .the,P,~4ger owes it tQ. its readers to 
~ . 'THERE WILL BE NO RECESSION. "THERE WILL BE NO RECESSION. 
~e pv&nm~k~ro~s~r.~b~tlliemkoo~~~h&e~:.:~~:~··~.1~~;~=~~~~~~~~~R~E~W~I~U~B~E~N~O~·~R~E~~~~~$~SI;O~,N~•~T~H;E~R~~~~~I;LL~~;E~~;O~R;E:C:E:H;I;O;N~.~~~~~~~ 11~-i· ·;ol ~ .,....t,,"' trlpil '. ''t' ,. :-il'r~;(~,·~.l! ·i· ~V',~r:::~··;' d,_l;.:: :iJ~ ~~ i '·' r·;J:·J.I:~0qi r' . :d'"''~,#~~ ,_;.. I·~~ ~r . ' ''V$'.;~f>.'.\ ~ .
't 
~i'

. . ' l ..... >II• . l>\·-1.. ;:_;;;.. ~ '"'~•···.~ I ..... I~:">,,,~~<• El·i*"'.iML·I
_-4.,
~ •>.r .,._~ .......... .~·~... r." 

--------~---------~·---------------~--~ ----­
k 
~ 
l . 
Wednesday, March 6, 1974

the observer
t 
l 
' ~ 




l the etienne era 
~ an insight by terry keeney
~ 
• ~ 
Dennis (H-Man) Etienne has been in Student Government for a long time. From• the days of oligarchy and the "King" to the new administration of Pat McLaughlin, 
! 
~ ·Etienne has served in the highest student offices longer than anyone in recent memoriy. As he leaves his post as SBP, Etienne is not without his personal reflec­tions upon the last two years of Notre Dame 
Student Government. For Etinne it all began with the now­
• famous campaign of the King, Bob Kersten.
t "Kersten didn't want to win it," said Etinne. "But when everything started going on it became a challenge." 
! 
t Although Kersten and Etinne took the campaign lightly and brought to campus politics a unique air of levity and wit, they did take some things quite seriously. What 
they did for Student Government in the campaign and in office was to make student service enjoyable. 
"I saw the basic problemm that then existed in Student 'Government was people taking themselves too seriously," he ob­served. Etienne believes his tenure has not succumbed to that temptation of self­importance. 
"I took the office itself seriously, but I wanted to keep away from taking myself too seriously which I think we managed to do," said Etienne. 
Under Kersten Etienne served first as Student Government Executive Coordinator ("I kept the office goin, I guess," he ex­plained) and later as Provost and vice­president. 
Etienne did not want to run for SBP last year. In fact he did not enter the race untill after the primaries when the two tickets going into the final election favored in­corporation of student government and abolition of SBP and SBVP. Only in op­position to these ideas did Etienne and Kersten enter the race, the "blank vote" contest. 

'.'Last year in that run-off two major changes were proposed in Student Govern­ment " Etienne said, explaining his motives for e~tering the contest. "Not speaking for Bob (Kersten), but I couldn't see either one of those changes." 
Reluctant as he was, Etienne won the election handily. Once in office be and vice­president Mike Geisinger set in motion several programs that Etienne can now cite 

Etienne cited the battle in the SLC over the party regulation and the judicial code as ways he h&.> stood up for students as spoke&man. Also he spoke of the many times he spent in the Administration Building. "And I'm not over for friendly visits, either." 
Etienne strongly disagrees with some administration tactics in dealing with en­forcement of University regulations. For example-the "no-knock clause" in the university room contracts. 
"That clause could be left out of the contract and the University would still have thwt same right to enter a student's room,'' Etienne conceded. Yet the University cannot enter a room without a reasonable suspicion of rule violation. "If they use it to harass students, he can take the University to court." 
Despite such suspiciion of University tactics, Etienne· saw no violations of student rights. "There are a lot of rumors going around about student rights being violated. As many as I get I check out. But I haven't found any yet." 
For Etienne as SBP and as student, Notre Dame over four years has changed in may ways and has remained constant in others. 
"One of the basic changes was I spent my first two years in Walsh Hall," Etienne recalled. "I'd have to say some of my best 
for the benefit of prison reform 
more than the simple edjoyment of music, we were helping to destroy an already ruinous system bore it destroyed the spirits of the man inside. It ended with a joyful "Will The Cirlcle Be Unbroken." In bet­ween was found a beautiful musical reminder that things can be done to help others, and perhaps the circle need not be broken while doing it. 
The first of four performers was Bill "Oliver" Swofford. Best remembered by the audience as the singer of "Good Mor­ning, Starshine" and "Jean", he un­fortunately felt it necessary to remind them again. Other than those two numbers, his set was a perfect opener. His opening song, "On the Run", was particularly fitting, with a chorus that featured the line "Is your sense of justice worth your sensless dyin"' The lead guitarist, Chris Brooks, showed as perhaps the most important ac­complishments of his span as president. 

In the realm of student services the trial run of the off-campus shuttle bus was an important step forward. The . bus was originally scheduled to begin operation at the start of the school year. 
"I came back to school ten days early to get it started and I ran into a lot of red tape," Etienne stated. Thinking that maximum use of the bus would come during cold weather, Etienne began the service last November, which lasted only a few weeks. "The basic reason it failed was there was too much area to cover in too little time," he said. 
Etienne was much criticized for not serving as a spokesman for the students in areas of students rights. Etienne answers these critics emphatically by defending his role as a private spokesman for the students. 
"The SBP is the one who goes over there and goes to bat for the students," Etienne noted. "If something's getting screwed up, he's got to gover there and tell them about," pointing to the Administration Building. 
"He doesn't have to do it publically," he continued, "because if he does he's backed himself into a corner already and it's ob­vious to everyone involved that he's done that." 

The evening began wUh a reminder that, 1remarkable talent in the treatment of 
"Bluesette", a tune "familiar to anyone who has ever eaten in a Howard Johnson's" and in his pedal steel playing on "Delta Dawn". 
Next came Steve Goodman, an incredible guitarist, talented >ongwriter, and all­around great entertainer. Within four bars of his first song, "Lady Be Good", he had the audience marveling at his guitar work and chuckling along at the tongue-in-cheek verses. The fun continued with a rollicking "Chicken Cordon Bleus", the "old favorite "City of New Orleans("! get yelled at if I don't play it, and yelled at if I do", he said), and a hilarious tribute to Monty Hall and "Let's Make a Deal" called ' Hillbillies Lament", which he wrote and performed with his friend Jimmy Buffet. 
Goodman's set was marred by one of John Denver's inconsiderate fans, who insisted on yelling "Bring Out John" during a beautiful instrumental break in "Would 
You Like to Learn to Dance". 
Goodman handled it well, though, and went on to play"Lincoln Park Pirates"and the "world's most cliched Country and Western Song", which he wrote with John Prine "on all fours in the bathroom of the Waldorf Astoria. There were originally 48 verses," he told the audience," but when he woke up, we were only in time to to stop the maid from washing off four of them." 
The fans who had been rude and in­considerate enough to yell for John Denver during the first two sets got what they deserved. Denver came out and did six of his own songs with all the emotion and ex­citement of "Southwestern Night" in the 
ng hall. I suppose there is a place for the kind of simple-minded philosophy that Denver dishes up, with all of the disillusionment and pessimism in the air lately; and it's probably a very good thing that there is someone around to remind us of all the natural beauty to be found in the times were sophomore year in Walsh. It was 

like a big frat!' 
Etienne misses the Notre Dame of two or 
three years ago when rules were less strict. 
"Freshman year was a zoo. There were. as 
many girls living on campus as Uiere are 
now except girls didn't pay room and board. 
I can still remember walking through the 
halls on weekend nights and halls were just 
littered with people passed out." 
Etienne believes the big change is in the 
students. Students seem more concerned 
with grades and graduate schools and jobs. 
"It seems like the orientation is getting 
beyond the University," he observed. 
"there is more concern with grades, the jobs 
after graduation; ; getting one's education 
seems to be the primary thing." 
Students no longer face the draft upon graduation and the possiblility of campus demonatration has become less likely . because of Kent State and Jackson State. "It's not that students are apathetic, but they would lay everthing on the line and strike if they thought it would accomplish anything. But Kent State and Jackson State 
hit the campuses hard." 
Although the students have changed their 
attitudes during his four years at Notre 
Dame, Etienne sees no radical change in the 
philosophy of the University as an in­
stitution. In fact he expects no such radical 
departure from tradition. 
"Systems don't change, they evolve," he 
argued. "Notre Dame is going to have to 
change, but they're gong to have to retain 
their 'Catholic' character. 
Etienne, who will :attend Indiana 
University-Perdue University LBW School 
next fall, has been sharply criticized as an 
inactive, mediocre SBP. Yet perhaps 
.. Etienne can take confidence that as he 
leaves, Student Government is in the best 
shape ever. 
Etienne remains convinced of this: 
"As far as the administration and the 
Board of Trustees go, Student Government 
is in the best chape it's ever been because 
now we can go the Board meetings and be 
welcome." 
From his beginning as a "joke candidate" 
two years ago, Etienne believes he has 
brought Student Governemnt a long way. He 
has given his position and the position of all 
the students the thing which was perhaps 
most needed-respect. 
a review by fred graver 
land and in our hearts. But the whole thing gets a little tiresome after a while. Denver insisted on reminding us of the beauty of the mountains sixteen times, the incredibility of sunshine fourteen times,how it feels to be naturally high eighteen times, and what it's like to find the simple . comforts of home fourteen times. 
If that isn't enough to demonstrate this man's extreme subtlety, perhaps some quotes from his lyrics will do the trick. How about, "It's a hard time when you're lonely and lonely when you're sleepin' alone? Maybe "It's little things that make a home" will give you a twinge. The best songs in Denver's setwere written by Tom Paxton, and were the worse for John's at-best medicore guitar playing. The best thing I can say about the original gee-whiz kid is that it was nice of him to share twenty minutes with an audience that had paid, for the most part, to see him. 
After a small intermissionthe Nitty Gritty Dirt Band came on to play some of the best hoedown country-western music that Notre Dame has heard since Jimmy Seals pulled out his fiddle last year in concert. Their first three tunes were a bit of a disap­pointment, sounding like bleached-out New Riders. But when they let John, the magic dancing electric fiddle master play, the whole evening broke loose. The audience was treated to spirited renditions of "Jambalaya", Doc Watson's "Way Downtown, Foolin' Aroun'", Hank William's ''Honky-Tonkin"', and Doug Kershaw's "Diggy, Liggy, Lo". One of the high points of the evening came ehn the band left the stage, leaving John to accompany himself on the banjo, to tell the haunting mountain story "Mountain Whipporwill". 
Steve Goodman, Oliver, and John Denver joined the Dirt Band for Ute .finale. They., were playirtg lWW. for nPWog ·~or~ than· ~e simple joy of playing. The set began witn John Prine's "Illegal Smile", during which Goodman and John, of the Dirt Band, traded off licks betwweeen guitar and banjo until Steve put a stop to the nonsense by ripping off an all too -familiar riff from "Duelin • Banjos". Denver then led the group in "Country Roads", followed by a soulful "Your Cheatin' Heart", during wh­ich Steve Goodman sang like a cross bet­ween Louie Armstrong and B.B. King. The show ended with a beautiful "Will the Circle Be Unbroken". 

Aside from a few minor faults, and one 
disappointing performer, the concert was 
one of the most fulfilling ever done at the 
A.C.C. The organizers were talking about coming back again next year, and from the looks on the faces Monday night, I'd advise them _tc_) get the highest odds, they can on a 
. bet ~at lightning will strike twice . 

Wednesday, March 6, 1974 the observer 
9 

Campus briefs • • • 
Graduation planned 
Senior Class Secretary Marie Therese Devitt announced yesterday that plans for the 1974 Commencement Exercises in May are already in the planning stages and that all plans for housing accomodations for parents and guests on campus have been taken care of. 
"Housing for parents will remain basically the same as last year," Devitt said, "parents will be housed in various dorms on campus for a very nominal price per night." 
Senior parents have been sent a packet of information which in­cluded an application form enabling them to request any one of a series of dorms and the number of rooms they will need. A letter of explanation and a ten­tative schedule of events for the weekend was enclosed in the packet. Seniors have been sent a copy of the letter. 
"There is no limit to the number of guests permitted," Devitt stated, "but Seniors are asked to keep the number reasonable." 
In order for all the forms to be sent out properly, and to facilitate further Commencement plans, seniors are urged to check their name and room number for any discrepancies on the computer lists which will be posted in each hall throughout this week, and to make any necessary corrections. 
As far as the graduation 
ceremonies themselves are con­
cerned, Devitt confirmed that the 
University is hoping to change the 
ceremonies, "perhaps to make 
them less formal and more per­
sonal." Class representatives 
have been asked to sit on the 
planning committee. 
Devitt said that anyone who 
would like to contribute ideas or 
has any questions concerning 

housing or the Commencement 
weekend can contact her at 8075 or 

call Jerry Sameniego at 232-3876. 

Cheerleading tryouts set 
There will be a meeting Wed­nesday night at 6 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby for all students interested in trying out for the cheerleading squad or for the leprechaun mascot. 
All St. Mary's and Notre Dame students are invited to the meeting, which will concern the criteria used for judging can­didates, dates of the tryouts, and the judges. There are ten positions, five girls and five guys, open on next year's squad. The leprechaun position is also open. Tryouts are not restricted by class. 
The meeting is being held before 

spring break so candidates can get 
in shape and work on skills over 
the vacation. 
Anyone wishing to tryout who cannot attend the meeting should 
• contact Charlie Morrison at 233­9555 or Ann Cisle at 8067. 
ND student 


injured 
Patricia Kramer, a Notre Dame 
senior, was injured in a three car 
accident Saturday afternoon and 
treated for head injuries at 
Memorial hospital. 
Miss Kramer was northbound on 
Miami Street when she collided 
with James Powell, a South Bend 
resident, who was driving east on 
Calvert at approximately 3:10p.m. 
Kramer's car then spun out of 
control and hit an auto driven by 
Darlene Bilinski, also a resident of 
South Bend. 
Miss Kramer was ticketed on a 
charge of disregarding traffic 
signal while Miss Bilinski was 
issued a ticket on a charge of 
driving with an expired license 
plate-. 


Job Fair for law students 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Second and third year law students are invited to attend the Second Annual Job Fair on April 5 and 6 at tbe Chicago Bar Association offices at 29 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, Dlinois. 
The event, sponsored by the 
Young Lawyers Section of the 

Cheerleaders to represent ND 
•
lD St. Patrick's Day parade 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 
National Championships bring honoring lauds to sports personnel hardly known in less successful years; next Saturday one more previously unlauded group within Notre Dame's sports program will receive its mention in the limelight when Notre Dame's cheerleaders appear in Mayor Daley's annual St. Patrick's day parade in Chicago. 
The Cheerleaders will be the guests of a Chicago resident and Notre Dame alumnus, Mr. Edward Moran. For the past ten years, Mr. Moran has entered a float in the parade celebrating his personal and business connections with Irish-American culture. 
This year, in light of the National Championship, he invited the Notre Dame cheerleaders to join him in the parade, sit on the float, and be his personal guests during their stay in Chicago. Step off time for the parade will be 1:00 p.m., March 16; it will be telecast locally over channel nine that same day at 3:30p.m. 
Ann Cisle, captain of the cheerleaders, also mentioned in 
Take the 
Greyhound 
Home for Break. 
Every Friday at 4:40 the Greyhound goes non-stop from NO Circle to Chicago. . . 
Two buses return to the Circle every Sunday. 
Call Tom Boyer 272-1807 for tickets & lnfor:matlon.nc, ')UJ 
~~ 
s·. ;a lti'f; ···'irJr; . ' 
her interview with the Observer the soon approaching tryouts to determing the cheerleading squad for the coming year. These tryouts, held at Stepan Center, will begin Sunday, March 31, and continue until the following Thursday. All ND or SMC sophomores, juniors, and seniors to be are eligible to try out 
Of those who do try out, ten will be chosen to comprise the squad for next year. These ten will be added to the already chosen captain and co-captain to make the total number on the squad twelve. Miss Cisle hoped that many students would try out, stating "the cheerleading squad has been getting better and better each year-tough competition for each spot on the squad makes the final squad just that much better." 
In addition, due to the 
graduation of Dan O'Hara, the 
present ND leprechaun, a new 
mascot for the coming year must 
be chosen. The new cheerleading 
squad will pick the person to fill 
this job. Miss Cisle indicated that 
in choosing a new leprechaun, the 
squad would look mostly for 
personality. 
"He must be an outgoing per­
son," stated Miss Cisle; "he, of course, must be agile, also, but that is not as important as per­sonality ." She further explained that the leprechaun is singled out · for public relations more than any 
of the individual cheerleaders. 
"When we try out a candidate for 
the leprechaun job we usually ask 
him first to dance the Irish jig and 
then to tell us jokes," concluded 
Miss Cisle. 


Chicago Bar Association, provides an opportunity for law students to interview perspective employers. 
Emphasis will be placed on small to medium-sized law firms, bank and corporate law depart­ments, and governmental agencies since the larger Chicago firms have already filled most of their vacancies. 
The Friday, April 5, session is open to third-year law students seeking permanent positions only, while both second and third year students looking for part-time or summer positions are invited for April 6. . 
Students from law schools in Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, and Iowa have been invited to attend the job fair. 
Further information regarding directories, sign-ups,and resumes can be obtained at the Law School Placement Bureau in the LawSchool Basement. 

ACAPULCO 
final meeting 7 p.m. Wednesday Fiesta Lounge 
Plans for the trip will be finalized 


scH6ttlsr1c~i!i 
is still accepting applications for 
EDITOR ART DIRECTOR PRODUCTION MANAGER BUSINESS MANAGER 
Deadline:Thursday, March 7 5 pm 
If interested please contact Kerry McNamara at 7569 or 7895 
SCHOLASTIC General Meeting Wednesday March 6 7 p.m. 
Sunshine Promotions Presents 

RARE EARTH 
and act to be announced 

Ticket Prices: Tickets on sale: 
Bleachers ............ $3.50 
NOTRE DAME,A. C. C. Mon-Sat 9 to 5 
Lower Arena ....... $4.50 
Robertson's South Bend & Concor(l Mall 
Main Floor .......... $5.50 
St. Joseph Bank -and branches 
Loge ....................$5.50 
First Bank -Main office only
Platform ..............$5.50 
Elkhart Truth 
FOR MAIL ORDER: 
State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to N.D. Rare Earth. Send to Rare Earth Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose s~l~;'~ddrys:;~d.litilmped envelope·.. Over-the~ounter-~les shirt March 11. f'·~., ,., ,., • · 



Wednesday, March 6, 1974

the observer
10 

Boxers ready for Bengal finals 
(continued from page 12) 
bell of the first round. Quarter final winner by a TKO, Phil Harbert came right at defending champion Charlie Morrison who countered immediately with his strong left, dropping Harbert to the canvas. The momentum moved to Harbert in the second round though, as a straight left punch caught Morrison backing up, dropping him into the ropes. Three more times before the round's com­pletion, Harbert's power staggered Morrison. Harbert earned the unanimous decision in the third round as a right-left combination staggered Morrison into the cor­ner. Harbert will now face John O'Brien, a winner by unanimous decision, in the finals. O'Brien, the aggressor throughout most of the fight, bloodied the nose of his opponent, Mike Shaw, in the third round. 
John Sherry's quick left jabs, followed by powerful right hooks in the first round, set the momentum for his unanimous decision of C.J. Ludford at 155 pounds. Sherry now faces another strong competitor in the finals as senior Tom Bole 
"Shu" makes UPisquad 
(continued from page Il) nchly deserved this honor." Shumate garnered 352 UPI votes, third behind first-ranked Bill Walton (478) of UCLA and second ranked David Thompson (447) of SSouth Carolina. There are a possible 482 votes from the 241 sportscasters and sportswriters across the nation. "John Shumate is the type of young man any coach would be proud to have on his team," con­tinued Phelps. "He's an out­standing basketball player who our younger players look up to. He has great leadership qualities and works just as hard as anyone on the team." 
Irish icers in 
6:30 face-off 
(continued from page 12) Tardani is suffering from bron­chitis. Both players should be available for tonight's game. 
The teams will meet again starting at 6:30 South Bend time <WNDU 0490) will carry the game live at that time.) in the student ice arena. Another sellout crowd of 3,219 is expected. 

PITTSBURGH® PAINTS 
Student Discounts on Latex Wall Paints 
Home Decor Center College square 721 W. McKinley Mishawaka, Ind. 
Ph. 256-1511 Open Mon-Fri 8-6 Sat -8-4 
earned the other sopt through his unanimous decision over Dan Betancourt. Bole carried the first wo rounds connecting on straight right and left jabs. He withstood an agressive third round by Ben­tancourt with sharp jabs of his own wo win the decision. 
An even fight after the first round ended in a technical knockout in the first bout at 165, as Kevin Poupore backed opponent Bob Popke into his own corner and connected hard enough with a sharp right-left combination to stop the fight. In the other bout at 165, Chet Zawalick 's constant jabbing and powerful right upper­cut chased his opponent, Mike McGarry, around the ring enroute to a unanimous decision. 
Two exceptional bouts in the 175 pound clsss sets up one of the more interesting finals to be contested Thursday as Steve Grady and Byron King each won semi-final matches. Grady knocked out sophomore Mike 'Charles in 40 seconds of the first round. After stinging Charles early, Grady finished him off with three straight left jabs. King a winner by unanimous deciion over Bill Doran found his bout a bit more difficult. He needed a sharp right jab in the second round to stagger Doran, pusshing him into the finals for the second time. 
The highlight of Thursday's finals along with the heavyweight 


THE THUMB IS THREATENED. 
Student-Rail pass. Just about the cheapest way to see Europe outside of hitching. Unlimited second-class rail travel in 13 countries. Two months only $165. 
You buy your Student-Rail pass here­you can't buy it in Europe. And the $165. price is tax free and a beautifu I way to beat 
currency fluctuations. What's more, train schedl!les are as frequent as ever, while getting a bout by car or motor coach isn't always as easy as before. Who's eligible? Any full-time student under 26 years of age registered in a North American school, college or university. You spend two whole months seeing practically the whole of Europe. And you travel in comfort. On trains so clean and so fast (up to 100 mph) you wouldn't believe it. Of course, you can also take our cozy little trains that meander through our remote countryside-that's part of the privilege, too. It can mean the Summer trip of your life, so don't wait. See your friendly Travel Agent or clip the coupon and we'll send you all the facts. See if you don't agree. The day of the thumb may be OVer. Fares subject to change. 
~------------------~
192-31-AI 

I Eurailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, 1 France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, 1I Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. I 
Eurailpass, Box 90, Bohemia, New York 11716 I Please send me your free Student·Railpass folder. 0 I I Or your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 I 
I I
I Name 1 I Street I I ~~ I 
I I 
I State Zip 174-1204 I 
~------------------~ 
STUDENT·RAILPASS 
It shows you Europe as the Europeans see it. 
1\ '9~\ . .'10. 

dual will be the rematch of Mike McGuire and Cecil Boot, last year's finalists at 185 pounds. McGuire, showing the same power he exhibited in winning the crown in '73, used his right jab followed by a left hook to gain the early control of the fight over Kevin Bucklev. By the third round, McGuire was using his agressive style to push Buckley around the ring. In the bout drawing the most crowd noise of the evening, Boot used a fast, quick-stinging style throwing non-stop punches to unanimously defeat the stronger, stockier Bob Olsen. A powerful left jab by Boot in the second round bloodied Olsen's mouth and puffed his right eye as he maintained momentum. 
With the above mentioned bouts, the stage is now set for one of the most exciting final cards in recent Bengal history. Along with the nine scheduled bouts for Thursday evening, there will be an addition of a special bout set up by meet director, Dominick Napolitano. In the junior welterweight devision, Jim Clune and Matt Cavanaugh each get another shot at winning Bengal crowns as they face each other in the ring. Many tickets still remain for the bouts which begin at 8 p.m. on Thursday. Your support of the Bengals is requested as the proceeds of the bouts will be sent to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh, a worthwhile cause. 
Cecil Boot and Mike McGuire will meet in a repeat of one of last year's best final-round bouts. 
SENIOR BAR 
LAST THREE DAYS-MONDAY, TUESDAY, & WEDNESDAY 
BEER 35~ 3/$1 .00 7 & 7 35~ 3/$1.00 

-------~--------~---­
Wednesday, March 6, 1974 the observer 1 1 
Southern trip opens Irish baseball season 
by Pete McHugh of indoor practice. The 79-year­games). Senior Steve Simons, a old head coach emphasized the transfer from Ohio University, It happens every spring: a need to establish a pitching staff on should hold down the catching young man's fancy turns to the the Southern excursion with the quarters with Gary Mayer in a fairer sex; fl9wers bloom, and loss of three starters from last backup role. Providing utility birds sing. And all over America, year. strength in the infield will be junior 
kids of all ages break out their Leading candidates for the Tony Iarocci <SS-2B), junior Tom gloves, baseballs, and bats to take starting rotation are right banders Miller (3B), senior Paul Clemens, part in our time-honored national Kevin Fanning, Mark Pittman, and freshman Mike Galloway. pasttime. Marty Serena, Mirch Stolz, Bob 
The outfield situation is wide
Stratta, and Jim Sholl. Left 

open with six players, three from
banders Paul Morisseau and Dave 

As the Indiana winter slowly either side of the plate, vying for 
dissipates, Notre Dame, too, Lazzeri should also see action in the starting spots. DickNew Orleans.
becomes part of the springtime Nussbaum, Mike O'Neill and Pete celebration. Flowers actually In the Irish infield, Smith to Sch­Clemens lead the contingent from blossom. birds are heard again, midt to Schmitz, might not be the left side. even a few fancies are turned. And Tinkers to Evers to Chance, but 
Nussbaum, a senior from Moon
the Notre Dame baseball team this trio should once again stabilize Township, Pennsylvania, held the comes out of its ACC hibernation ND's inner defense. Senior Pete 
centerfield spot last year leading
for its time-honored spring trip to Schmidt (2B) and junior Jim Smith the Irish regulars with a .333the time-honored South. <SS) will shore up the middle of the average. O'Neill, a junior from infield after hitting .264 and .276 Rochester, New York, batted .368
This year the Irish travel to New 
respectively last year. in 18 games, but might also seeOrleans (a city of great sen­Mark Schmitz, a junior from some action on the mound fortimental value) for their regular 
Cleveland, Ohio, returns to first Kline. 

season preparation. Under coach 
base after leading Notre Dame in

Jake Kline, perennial as the hit­Out of the right handed hitters,
just about everything a year ago.

and-run in his 4oth season at Noore Tom Hansen, Ken Schuster and
Schmitz topped the Irish in hits,

Dame, the Irish will face Louisiana Ron Goodman are all possible
doubles, triples, RBis, total bases, 

State <New Orleans), Arkansas starters. Goodman, a halfback on
and even sacrifices while batting

Stae, Illinois State, and Tulane in the football team who was drafted
.303.

ten games March 8-17. by the Red Sox out of high school, 
At third base, senior Pat has been particularly impressive 
Kline, who began his reign in Coleman seems to have won a in his first attempt at the varsity. 1934, is looking forward to the starting position after seeing Hansen will take leave of his outdoor action after over a month limited duty last year (.314 in 19 reserve role on the basketball 
Irish Eye Review 
~~""":IJ.?-St Championship Season~ 
confided to Tommy, midway through the third act, posed his own problems to them. 
"is that they don't yell, tell, or swell.") But by avoiding the event Martin proved himelf not 
And in the midst of all that there's the Coach, only a smooth ballplayer, but the smartest of the Forrest Tucker. A man who's still viewing his ex-bunch. And his non-presence lent an air of players and their problems much as he viewed them credulity to the whole event. Thethoughtof Martin, so thirty years earlier. The coach's problem is that he very smooth hanging at the top of his jump some 13 sees team work as the an~wer to all of his players' feet away from the basket, his right wrist and hand problems~ven those which demand individual bending backwards as he launched his game-winning solutions. shot, was always something the others could cling to 
It is the coach, then, who is most caught up in the to prove that their myth was no myth at all, "living in the past" syndrome. But this particular but something as real as that 72-71 final score. group of ex-athletes is affected by that syn-And the thought of Martin, more and more idealized 
drome, too, and it is only when over-eome by
nostalgia that they are able to forget their an-with everypassingyear, was a though which gave the 
other four players and the one coach some semblence 
tagonisms, and are able to band together as friends of hope in respect to their own problems. It was no and companions-as a team-again. At least until the coincidence that when the players first got together
next championship reunion. 
It is a marvelously structured study which Jason for their reunion, they drank first a toast to their Miller has put together. A study which has moments championship season, and then a toast to Martin,
their missing member. After that, they found

of high comedy and subtle pathos. A study which · d 
deals as firmly with past and present social mores as precious little to rink to. Except at the end, when a it does with the yearnings of the ex-athletes. worn, scratchy phonograph recording of that last shot 
made the reunion a nominally successful one •for

But it is a study which deals, most of all, with the 
idea of reunion, and the effects such reunion can have it's five participants. on its participants. For it isn't by chance that the The concept comes across subtley, at the end of the missing member of the Ch-ampionship Season the play. The concept that, perhaps, Jason Miller didn't 
player who hit the final shot which made the need any qualification to write a play such as That whole thing possible-was absent simply because he Championship Season. Perhaps what he'd seen had no desire to attent this reunion or any other. And around him on a day-to-day basis was qulification in staying away, he <Martin), insured that he would enough. And perhaps his underlying interest in always be remembered as a "super ballplayer," "so athletics only provided the vehicle for a presentation very smooth," and a "truly great guy." By at-which would deal with the ex-athlete, but which would tending, he woud have exposed himself to the deal, also, with much, much more. 
problems of the others, and in turnwr.;;o~ul;r,d;.h;.;;a;;.v;.;e;..;;;ex;;.-___A_n_d_w_hi_c_h_w_o,;.u_l_d_d..;o_s_o_br.;.;i,;;,;ll,;.ia..;,n;,;,tl..:;,y.;..------. 
tM 1ir~:~=~=~=~=~=~:~~=~=~=~~=~r=~=~===~=~=~=~l~l 256-0111

Phelps receives ~]j[]1]J~ ~;~Party Supplies ~r
coaching honor 
Cards
I![-I lj l i\ y)..I._{ ;:;:~:~:~:~:::::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:;:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::: 
by Art Ferranti 
Books
'::=J~-.:ta:-:3'~-~·~ .r
Executive Editor 
Magazines
~ -"'~\··;''-~~\~.' 1111111 mall f\IWII & 'tt\IH\Iy 1'"Sil I ~. 2340 I'll It aldt~ l.uw

Coach Digger Phelps of the 
Art Supplies
.hoppuu) l.:t!llh'r ~-.~ .....: • , • t,_,. .;_ • 
Hid 1.111.1 4G~l-l4

Fighting Irish Basketball team was named coach of the year by the sportswriters of United Press International <UPI) and Sporting 
100

News, it was announced yesterday. It is the first time Phelps has 
Center

received either honor since coming 
to South Bend. 
John Shumate and Gary Brokaw 
also received plaudits yesterday, 
being named UPI AU-Americans; 
Shumate making the first team 
and Brokaw the third. Shumate, 
CUSTOM & HAND MADE

the seventh leading scorer in Notre 
Dame history, has accumulated LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES 
1,258 career points to date in only 
Largest selection of

two years of varsity play. Concerning Shumate, Coach 
FRYE BOOTS

Pehlps said, "He has been up agains some of the finest players in the country and I don't think there's any question that he's 
(continued on page 10) 
team for the spring trip. The fill the designated hitter role when l senior captain hit .269 at third base not in the outfield. and in the outfield. Schuster (.260 
Coming off a 15-22 record lastin 24 games) played errorless ball season, Kline set a better than .500

in the outfield but can be used as a mark as a reasonable goal for thiscatcher if necessary. 
year. However, he tempered his 
l
Presently, Kline rates all six optimism by the indefinite status players about equally as to hitting of his mound staff, "If our pitching and speed. Their performances comes through, we should have a down south should determine who pretty good ball club." The Irish sees the most action in the regular open the regular season April 5 at season. Any of these players could home against Miami <Ohio). 
Heading Out lor Break? Have a good time! But if vou're an "unfortunate" who can't make the "Southern Scene" REMEMBER Nickies will be open 9 pm -closing We're still serving our famous a hamburgers too!!  
CLASSIFIED ADS RIDES WANTED To the officers of the harem: Need ride to Mii)Naukee All harem officers must be anytime Fri. Call 5428. eunuchs. For those still requiring treatment, contact Need ride to Boston anytime the sergeant at arms. after Wed. Call Ameilia233­Casanova. 1942. Need ride to Milwaukee . Fril FOR SALEAfter noon . Call 6804. Humidifier, $30. Sears 9x9Need ride to 1. U. for Thurs. umbrella tent, $20. SchwinnCall Shawn 233-4818. Pixie 16 ", $20. Call 234-7375 after 5.Need ride to Fla. Mar. 8. for 1,2,or 3. Call Joe Powers 232· Sony TC-161-SD dol by cassette.2693 1973 best model. List $329. Want $175. Call 3254.LOST AND FOUND Limited supply of stereoLost sliver watch Caravelle equipment . All receivers ,man's , between Alumni and tape decks, speakers. 25 perLaw School Call Tom 1175. cent off. 8436, 8437, 8782. "Misplaced" black wallet Sat. NOTICESnight In ST. Ed's. Keep money, please return wallet. Mike SHARE: Student Help And8821. Resource Endeavor: an op. portunity just to talk. Walk inHelp, lost maroon jacket at Rm 15, Basement Holy Crosscircle last Fri. Call 3462. (SMC) or call 4311. Sun-Thurs 8 pm-12 mid. Fri and Sat. 8 pmPERSONALS -2 am. To the Monday night staff: It's Do you need ride to Florida?been real-Have gentle days. $35 one way, $60 round trip.JR Price for rented car. Leaving Fri. noon. 1801, Mike. Beck--­This one's for you. SMC Summer School in London travel in Ireland, Scotland, Wales, England, andParis. May 20-Jun 20. College CreditMephistopheles: "But did available. $795 plus tuition.you enjoy it when you had it?" Professor Black 284-4948 office, 272-3726 home."Of course 1 did." "Well, then, nothing more WANTEDneeds to be said." Need riders for Utah leaving Many thanks to the Observer Thurs. night. Call Jim 3662. staffs , past and present, for making the paper mean something. Riders wanted ST. Louis , KC Personnel! Manager. Wichita. Mar. 8,9. 234-8772. We'll miss you , Art. Need housemate for 2 BR house Staffs Past and Present. off Angela. Call Mike 234-8314. See you on the cover of the Used acoustic guitar. Call Tim Rolling Stone, Jeri 234-8092. Riders wanted to Fla. LeaveCongrats Anne and Don Fri. Call Jim C. 1139.from the Second Floor McCandless Old Maids Need riders LA area. Mar. 8. Call Ed 282-1732.  



Wednesday, March 6, 1974

12 
the observer 
leers suffer first-round loss, 4-2 

by John Fineran and the puck deflected off the stick The Irish then went into a shell, of Irish defenseman Bill Nyrop and little more than 90 seconds Houghton, Mich-lf Notre Dame past Mark Kronholm for the later, Tech capitalized for its first had been as accurate with its winning goal. goal. Kronholm made a sen­sticks in Michigan Tech's zone as it Tech added an insurance goal a sational, showdown save to rob was in its own, the score, 4-2 in little over three minutes later Elie Vorlicek, but the Tech for­Tech's favor, might have been when Lorne Stamler broke around -ward crashed into the netminder, 
different. Then again it might not the Irish defense and came in on leaving the goal open. Kronholm 
have. The Huskiils were more Kronholm. Mark stated out and got up, only to get tangled with a 
opportunistic than the Irish in poke checked the puck off maze of Irish defenders in his winning the first half of this two Stamler's stick, but it trickled into crease, and Mike Usitalo's shot game, total goal, semifinal series. the vacated net at 3:35 for the 4-2 from the faceoff circle skimmed in 
The Huskies forechecked and final. at 14:38. backchecked well after spotting Notre Dame appeared to have Useitelo tied the game with the the visitors from South Bend an the WCHA champs on the run early only goal of the second period. early 2-0 lead. However, the Irish in the game when Brian Walsh won Tech controlled most of the play helped matters by going into & a faceoff, gathered the puck onto during the middle session, taking shell after Eddie Bumbacco's his stick and fired a shot along the 30 shots to NO's 14. Again, slapper at 13:02 gave Notre Dame ice past Rick Quance 28 seconds Vorlicek did the dirty work, 
that lead. into the contest. winning the draw while Steve The teams were tied 2-2 after the Bumbacco's goal resulted again Jensen blocked out NO's Jim first two periods, but Tech, with from Irish opportunism taking a Augustine. Usitelo skated un­NO's Paul Clark sitting out 22 feed from Steve Curry, Eddie and molested down the slot, shooting a seconds of a penalty incurred late linemate Ian Williams skated in on 25-foot wrister past Kronholm at in the second stanza, needed only a two-on-one break. With Williams 12:20.Both teams had numerous 15 of them to score. Huskie distracting Quance Bumbacco let opportunities, especially the leading-scorer Mike Zuke shot fly with his slapshot which beat the Huskies, who used crisp pa!:sing from the goal line into the crease, Tech goalie on the short side. and deft stick handling to fool the 
Irish. Notre Dame, on the other hand, saw its scoring chances fail
• because of either poor passing or poor positional play. Several
Netters W"ln opener 
times, Irish centers threw pucks into the flat but wingers were notby Pete McHugh Walsh, a senior from Kingston, there to receive them.
Jamaica, made short work of 

Kronholm and Quance both The Notre tennis Cardinal Paul Thomas 6-2, 6-0.
Dame team played superbly with Mark making 
opened its 50th season Monday Randy Stehlik( number four, 6-4, 3­33 saves, 5 more than his opponent. 
afternoon by thrashing Ball State, 6, 6-3), John Carrico (number five, Both teams' penalty killing duos 8-1, in the North Dome of the ACC. 6-4, 6-4), and Juan lnchauste each performed well when called The Irish swept all six singles (number six, 6-3, 6-2) accounted upon. Notre Dame's Pat Novitzki matches and two of three doubles for Notre Dame's other singles and Mike Tardani and Tech's Scott matches to beat a fast Cardinal victories. 
Jessee and John Jashuk both squad, fresh from their Florida In the doubles competitign, succeeded in keeping their op­spring trip. Rick Slager, Chris 
sophomores Slager and Mike ponents stymied in their respective Kane, and Brandon Walsh, the 
O'Donnell won easily 6-3, 6-2, while zones. 

three top Irish netters, were Carrico and Stehlik disposed of Tardani and Novitski each particularly impressive in the 
their opponents in similar fashion visited the doctor after the contest. 
year's first competition. 
6-3, 6-2. Ball State's Warfel and Novitzki suffered an eye cut Slager, a quarterback on the Clarkowski salvaged a win in the which required three stitches, the 
football team, lost his first set 5-7 
final match of the day 7-5, 6-2 over injury occuring when Tech but overpowered Ball State's Tom 
Kane and Walsh. defenseman Jim NahrgangWarfel in the final sets 6-1, 6-3 for a slashed loose behind the playstrong showing. Kane, playing The Irish embark on their spring during the second period action. 
number two for coach Tom Fallon, trip Friday to face the likes of outfinessed tempermental Kevin UCLA, USC, and San Diego State (continued on page 11) Clarkowski 6-7, 6-4, 6-2. under the California sun. 
Vic Dorr~=======================;=====================================================================================================================~=~=~=~8~=~========================================:====================~===== 
The Irish Eye 


CHICAGO--At first glance there seems to be State High School basketball champions of 1947. It is nothing in Jason Miller's considerable thespian a story which begins lightly enough, as four of the background qualifying him to write such a profoundly team's five starters and their garrulous, father­penetrating play as That Championship Season. figure coach.gather to drink and reminisce: 
A quick scan of his credits-as listed in the "Remember that championship game against Tech? Studebaker Theatre's Stagebill Magazine-mentions Down by one point, 71-70 with 10 seconds left. We his performance in the Champlain Shakespeare passed the ball in. Phil to George, to Tommy, then to Festival, his appearance with Helen Hayes in Long James. Then Martin had the ball, coming across the Day's Journey Into Night, and his role as Father lane. And then, with one second left, he shot. .." Karras in the filmed version of The Exorcist. But the gathering doesn't long remain on the level 
But nowhere is Miller given credit for having of reminiscence. The effects of time, hard liquor, and 
participated in athletics himself-on any level. human nature soon do to the ex-ballplayers what 
Nowhere do his Stagebill notations say that he, twenty-some high school opponents should not do. 
himself, played high school basketball, and in no way Turn them against themselves. As that happens, 
does his collegiate career at Catholic University and the themes of ambition, professiomil greed, the University of Scranton hint at any sports alcoholism, and extra-marital sex ("on the ice background. machine next time, right Phif? ") replace the myth of 
But in the wake of Jason Miller's recent ap­the championship reunion. pearance at Notre Dame's Sophomore Literary But even as the myth of the championship reunion Festival came, discreetly, the suggestion that his fades in the minds of the four players who are par­background did qualify him to delve deeply and ticipating in that reunion, it doesn't fade in the mind theatrically into the psyche of the ex-athlete. of the Coach-for his belief is that 
"Oh yes," said Roger Valdiserri, Notre Dame's those middle aged players and that one upper-middle 
Sports Information Dorector, "He's a big fan. He was aged coach are a team still. 
down there on the sidelines during the Sugar Bowl It isn't so though, and the players know it. Once game, you know, and he nearly tore my head off when separated from their school day reveries, they reveal Clements threw that pass to Weber." problems they never dreamed of in high school. 
But while interest is one thing, ability to com­George Sikowski, one of the team's two guards, is the municate that interest is another. Quite another. mayor of the town in which the play is set-a small Particularly if the medium chosen for that com­town somewhere in the Lackawanna Valley. As a munication happens to be stage and theatre. politician, he's conveniently corrupt and dreadfully 
Considering that, the most significant thing about inefficient. Tommy Daley, the other guard, is a1hard That Championship Season is , that it 1 succeeds. core alcoholic. Brilliantly. And it succeeds on several levels: not James Daley, Tom's brother, was a forward in high just on the level of the nostalgic yearnings of a cluster school, and is portrayed as sanctimonious and coldly of ex-jocks, not just on the level of a brutal, realistic ambitious. Andthere's Phil Romano, the ball team's portrayal of the society of the 1940's, as reflected in hot-blooded Italian businessman, who has been the the societyof 1974, and not just on the level of human reason for much of the mayor's corruption, and who 
-· 
success and human failure and human laughter. is in the process of having an affair with the mayor's That Championship Season succeeds on each of these wife. levels and on all of them together. ("That's one thing about married women," he The story, of course is one of a reunion. The 
(continued on page 10)

reunion, some 20 years later, of the Pennsylvania 

by Tom Hansen 

Put two of Notre Dame's national championship football players in a boxing arena and you'd expect a powerful con­frontation. That it was when Jeff Hein met Tom Parise in the heavyweight division in the semifinals of the 43rd Bengal Bouts last night. 
And though it was a close match and certainly one of the most exciting, it was not as skillful as many of the others on the card. Hein, a defensive end, sent Parise into the ropes at the end of the first round as the two looked more like maulers than boxers at times. Hein recovered from a couple of hard Parise rights in the second round to send the sophomore fullback nearly through the ropes. After the third round found both fighters connecting on numerous oc­casions, Hein was awarded a split dicision by the judges. An exciting bout now shapes up for Thursday's final as Hein will meet another fooball player, Steve Neece. 
The night's action didn't start quite as wildly as it ended though, as two defending champions in the 130-pound class were defeated in closely contested bout. Defending champ at 125, Tom Garrity was the first to drop out of contention as Mike Cramer won a split decision, scoring late in the match on the tiring Garrity. In a decision met by mixed emotions, first year boxer Tony Montagnese upset defending champ at 130, Eli Guajardo, by a unanimous decision. Montagnese staggered Guajardo in the second round forcing a standing eight count, and although the defending champ rallied in the third round, he could not carry the fight. 
At 140, Pat McGrath gained a spot in the finals in hopes of win­ning this third title in 4 years by earning a unanimous decision over John Corcoran. McGrath was in complete control the entire fight displaying a strong right when needed. Earning the right to face McGrath in the finals was Steve Duffy, '73 runner-up at 140. Duffy showed good footwork and a strong left jab in winning a unanimous decision over Jim Clune. 
The first TKO of the evening was registered by senior Bill Pioi at 50 seconds of the third round against Steve Jones. Pioli took control of the fight in the second round as his straight right jabs backed Jones into the ropes, bloodying his nose. When left and right jabs reopened the wound in the third round, the bout was ended. Pioli's opponent in the finals will be a two-year veteran of the bouts who spent his last year in Ireland, Terry John­son. Johnson, a winner by unanimous decision over Matt Cavanaugh, another veteran, won the closely contested bout in the third round as he dodged many wild hooks and followed with strong right counter punches. 
The first bout at 150 pounds was pure excitement from the opening 
(continued on page 10) 
Sailors 3rd in Regatta 
This past weekend, the spring sailing season for the 42-school Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association opened at Notre Dame with the annual freshman Icebreaker Regatta. 
Seven schools displayed their future talent in the event, which was open to first-year men or to sailors with no previous in­tercollegiate experience. 
The final standings, after a very competitive day of racing, saw Michigan State in first place, Bowling Green second, and Notre Dame third. 
The Irish squad took four first and a number of seconds and thirds, and good performances by Judy Robert, Joe Kruyer, and Mike Wullaert highlighted the Notre Dame effort. 





