r---------~----------------------------~------------------~------.-----------------------------------~--------~~----~----------------------~---~ 
On The Inside 
Playhouse opens ... paae 4 Father Griffen ... page 7 

Vol. VIII, No. 80 
By JAMES WARD LANGENBROICH, West Germany (UPI)-While protests against his exile and offers of refuge poured in from around the world, Alexander I. Solzhenitsyn prepared Thursday to leave for· Zurich, Switzerland, where up to $6 million has piled up over the years in royalties from his writings. Meanwhile, friends of the family in Moscow said the Nobel prizewinning author had been formally charged with treason during his overnight stay in Moscow's Lefortovo prison Tuesday before being abruptly stripped of his citizenship and deported to 
West Germany.  
Refuses treason charge  
The  sources  said  Solzhenitsyn  refused  to  
acknowledge  the  treason  charge and would  not  
answer  questions.  On  Wednesday morning  the  

Krem tin decree exiling him was read to him, they said, and he was hustled to the airport.and put on a plane to West Germany. He did not learn where he was ~oing until he saw the airport sign "Frankfurt­ar.1-.Main" out of the Aeroflot airliner window on landing, they said. 
A British Broadcasting Corp. correspondent who talked with Solzhenitsyn Thursday said the writer told him the same thing. Soviet government sources had said Solzhenitsyn voluntarily decided to leave. 
Soviet press renews attack 
The state-controlled Soviet press renewed its attack on Solzhenitsyn Thursday, printing statements and letters denouncing him and ap­plauding his expulsion. The Soviet News Agency Tass said the Russian people "unanimously ap­proved" of the governments action. 
Soizhenitsyn's lawyer, Fritz Heeb, told newsmen at the country home of German writer Henrich BoeH, with whom Solzhenitsyn has been staying, that he and Solzhenitsyn would leave for Zurich Friday. 
Heeb gave no reason for the trip and asked newr:,en to "please leave us now. Please have respect for Mr. Solzhenitsyn's personal affairs." It is know that royalties from Solzhenitsyn's books, 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Friday, February 15, 1974 
To collect ~;6 million in royalties 
Solzhenitsyn leaves for Switzerland 
which he was not permitted to receive when he lived 
in Russia, have been collected in Zurich since 1970. 
The exa<:t amount has never been disclosed, but the Paris Newspaper France-Sour estimated Thursday it was about 6 111illion. 
Heeb IHitS deposited the funds, which include Solzhenitsyn's 1970 Nobel ;prize stipend of $78,400, in Swiss ba111ks. The lawyer said last year Solzhenitsyn wanted rnuch of it given to charity. 
Meanwhile, offers of refuge and protests of the Soviet action-some from Western Communist parties-poured in from around the world. 
Solzhenitsyn's exile offends "our party's views of democracy," the Swedish Communist party said. "Reactionary opinions should be fought in a free and 
open debate, tervention."  not  with censorship and police in­ 
"Freedom  of  creation,  of  expression, of  
publication  is  inseparable  from  Socialist  

dernocracy," the French Socialist party said. 
"The rnost elementary rights of the freedom and dignity of nan... have been once more violated and trampled upon," said the Vatican newspaper 
. i 'Osservatore Rornano. 
"What will the Kremlin do... when all the Russians becor.1e Solzhenitsyns?" szaid the Tunisian government newsoaoer Action 
Invited to Stockholm 
The governments of the United Staes, Great Britain, Sweden and Norway invited Solzhenitsyn to Pake his home there. Solzhenitsyn gave no in­dication of his plans, but Boell said: "One thing is certain. He will not remain in West Germany." 
The Nobel Foundation invited him to Stockholm to get his 1970 prize for literature, which he never accepted because he feared he would not be allowed to return lo Russia. 
In Moscow, Solzhenitxyn's wife Natalya spoke with hir.1 by telephone for the second time since he arrived in West Germany. The call, which came while Western newsmen were visiting the apart­r.,ent, lasted 25 r:1inutes. As she spoke, friends gathered around a radio in the kitchen listening to 

Later, 111ingling with a reception crowd at Lewis hall, Miller becarne a sensitive and concerned person for those he encountered. 
Miller read act two of That Championship Season for which he said he had a fondness akin to " a father's fondness for his successful son." He r:1entioned that he also had one other play in print which was so unsuccessful that he could not find a copy. 
Miller indicated that his goal in writing is "to move people" and aiUdience reaction indicated that he did just that with his reading iast night. 
That Championship Season is a play about 5 111en who attempt to fly upon the rotted of glory of a high school basketball cham­pionship. The play touched chords of amusement with its 111ocking of Jewish and Communist prejudice and its graphicMiller indicated that his goal in writing is "to move people". 
language, and it also hits the sad, 
By Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter 
Reading fror.1 his Pulitzer prise­winning play That Championship Season last night before a packed audience in Washington Hall, Jason Miller appeared a very talented and humorous playwright. 
Solzhenitsyn speaking to reporters on a Russian­language bro.adcast from a West German radio station. 
The Soviet government had promised tat Solzhenitsyn's family would be able to join him iater. However, friends said it would be difficult for Mrs. Solzhenitsyn to leave the country quickly because of the number of children involved. Under e_r.,igration laws, she would need the approval of her ftrst husband to take her 11-year-old son Mitya with her. 
Walk cut short 
Solzhenitsyn and Boell rose early for a country breakfast prepared by Mrs. Boell. They steppped out of the stone farmhouse intending to take a walk in spring-like weather. But a crowd of newsmen stopped them short and after declining to answer Questions, the two went back inside. 
They came out for a second time about two hours iater. BoeU tucked his arm under Solzhenitsyn's, the Russian towering over the .German, and for about 10 r:1inutes they walked around Boell's property, admiring a block of fat sheep. 
"Please, no questions. I can give no answers," Solzhenitsyn told newmen in animated bursts of Russian and German, his hands swooping and chopping to underscore his words. "I am tired; I have worries. In the Motherland, I spoke too much. Now is the time for silence." 
Charged with treason 
He did speak briefly in Boell's home with BBC 
correspondent Janis Sapiets, who said later, "He 
told r.1e that when he was first arrested, the 
prosecutor declared he was charged with treason. 
"The next r.10rning, he was told of the decision of 
the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet to deport him 
and strip him of his citizenship, and then he was 
taken to the plane which flew him to West Germany. 
He was not tried." 


That Championship Season 
Miller performs readings 
Observer lnsirJhl 
iow notes of the decay of proud Pen. 
One r.,ight sense that an in­dividual who spends his life writing down scenes forr.1 life on paper and acting ther.1 out on a screen would rend to becorne personally artificial. Miller was direct in his approach and tmly concerned with the inquiries and ideas of those who 
approached him. 
He also indicated that he felt it was a fine idea for one to write and have another profession also. For example, if one likes physics and writing, on should do both. He stated that the two realms have "been imcon1patible for too long." 
Writers should, "use physical laws to look at the world and see where they're compatible and see where they're ir:1compatible," 
Miller said In his dual position as a 
writer-actor does not feel that he 
has been forced to neglect one or 
rhe other profession. Event ualiy 
he hopes to get into directing where he can combine both into one production. 
Prior to his reading at Washington Hall, Miller was presented with a basketball signed by the r:1embers of Notre Dame's basketball tear.1. After t·eading forr.1 his play he read several of his favority poer:1s by Dylan Thomas. 
Although his play presentedmen who were 111orally and intellectually bankrupt,JasonMiller can be sensed to be vibrantly alive with sor.1ething ir.1portant to say to those who will listen to him. 


More on Soph. Literary Festival ...page 7 
the observer 

Hearst angered 
warld 


briefs 

PALM DESERT, CALIF. <UPil-Jack Benny celebra-ted his · 80th birthday Thursday at Frank Sina-tra's plush desert com­pound here, where the 10-day "Jack Benny Fes-tival" is un­
derway.
Twenty-four p,uests, including Gov. Ronald Reagan, Bob Hope, Milton Berle, Rosalind Russell and George Gurns were raking rurns each night of the celebra-tion hos-ting special li-t-tle pa1·ties with Sinatra acting as overall hos-t. 

HOUSTON <UPil-George Foreman's attorneys Thursday . ,;ought financial records for a divorce proceeding tha-t -threa-tend he heavyweight champion's March 26 bout wi-th challenger Ken 
Norton. 

After a r.1orning job through a local park, Forenian refused to l'Of.1r.,ent ona a courtroom s-ta-tement tha-t an extended hearing would interrupt his training schedule and force a cancellation of rhe fight. 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-8en. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., proposed Th_ursday t~at Congress confer honorary U.S. citizenship on extled Russtan author Alexnader I. Solzhenitsyn as a tribute to his fight for freedom. 
an campus tadi:Y 

friday, february 15, 1974 
5:30 pm -track, central collegiate conference, ace 
7:30 pm -wrestling, john carroll university, ace aux gym 7:30pm -lecture, "the small child and god" sr. patricia loehler, esc, $2.50 reg. fee, 
8:00pm. soph lit festival, "with a sweetly brutal sense of what american life is like,'' joyce carol oats, lib. aud. 
a: 00 pm-dup. bridge, everyone welcome, university club 
7:00pm-lecture, engineering lecture series, admiral riclover, cce aud. 
saturday, february 16, 1974 
12:00 noon -track,central collegiate conference, ace 1:00pm-wrestling, u. of akron, ace aux gym 
7:00 & 9:00pm-film, "a warm december," sm.c social com­mission, $1.00, carroll hall 
8:00 
pm-soph. lit. festival, "jewish literature and the super­natural," isaac singer, libr. aud. 

sunday, february 17, 1974 2:00pm-drama, "poor man's broadway," nd-smc theater,little theater 

8:00 
pm -dance & drama series, "gertrude stein's gertrude stein," nancy cole, spon. by cac, little theater 

8:00 
& 10:00 pm-cinema '74, films by renoir, lang, von stern­


berg, by cac, Sl.OO, eng. aud. 2:00pm -meeting, science fiction club, 2nd floor Ia fortune 12:00-5:00 pm -art exhibit, indiana printmakers show, moreau 
gallery 
12:00 
-9:00 pm -art exhibit, paintings by suzanne golubski, upper moreau gallery 

12:00 
-9:00 pm -art exhibition, paintings by harold zisla, 


hammes gallery 



Jordan Ford 

609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 




Calls Saxbe 'irresponsible' 
WASHINGTON <UPI l -Publisher Randolph Hearst said angrily Thursday that it was "damn near irresponsible" for U.S. Attorney General William Saxbe to say that if the FBI knew his kidnapped daughter's whereabouts, "We'd get her." 
"Mr. Saxbe is not Patricia's father," Hearst said. 
The distraught father of the 19-year-old girl, talking with newsmen outside the family home in suburban Hillsborough, said all the efforts of the family and the FBI had been directed at not provoking the Sym­bionese Liberation Army into harming Patricia. 
A reporter asked Hearst about Saxbe's remark at a news conference in Washington earlier Thursday that if the FBI would "get" Miss Hearst if 
it  knew  wh,ere  she  was  being  
held."  
Saxbe  also  said:  "You  can't  
trample  with  something  like  

that. If you know where she is and don't go get her, I think you'd be subject to dereliction of duty." 
Although he kept his voice calm, Hearst bristled at the r.1ention of Saxbe's comment. 
"I haven't read the statement in fuli-I'm getting bits and pieces. But as to whether they p,o in m· not, I don't think the attorney general is in the position to have an opinion. 
"In the first place we don't know where she is. A statement like that is antagonistic, one that doesn't have a place in the negotiations we are trying to carry on out here. 
"To make a statement that you are going to bust in and shoot the place up from Washington is damn near irresponsible." 
After Saxbe made his state­Pent, the FBI in Washington said it had "not identified any suspects in the case." 
"We will do nothing to jeopardize the safety of the kidnap victim in this case," a spokesman said. 
And Saxbe, himself, backed down later in the day and issued a statement to "clarify" his earlier remarks. 
"I have no certain knowledge that there are suspects identi­fied in connection with this 
The Observer is publiShect daily during the college semester except vacations by the students ot the University of Notre Dame end St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for II per semester (S14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

FINAL WEEK 


~~w.:<=*'>.:::=K«'-"'*:m::~--.l~.:~::~:>...;;:-.~,.,.,,'*'''-~*'*''''~~! Umtod Artists 
r.1atter, nor would I want the FBI to pursue any action which would in any way jeopardize the life of the young victim in this case," he said. 
Hearst said that the family had not yet worked out a definite counter proposal to the SLA ransom demand that an estimated $400 million in food be distributed free to 4.7 million needy Californians as a first gesture of good faith in releasing Patricia unharmed. 
"We are in the process of looking into what's possible and what can be done and when we have some indication we'll 
announce what  we  think  we  can  
do," he said.  
The  son  of  the  late  Hearst  

newspaper founder William Randolph Hearst said his wife,
I...DROP IN ANY NIGHT THIS WEEKEND AND 

Catherine, was not accurate Wednesday night when she said public sympathizers had sent the family more than $1 million to help free Patricia. 
"She got the figure from hearing someone say that if they had a telethon, suggested that a telethon could raise $1 Pillion. That is where the $1 r.,illion came from. 
"I don't know how much we have. It isn't anything like that. We're not soliciting funds. It's from people who just feel that they want to help us, people who are concerned like all of us with what's happening to Patty." 
Hearst said the money should 
be put in some sort of account 
so that "if things turn out we 
can send it back to the people." 
LISTEN TO THE SOUND 
OF CHRIS MANION 
On·Sunday show your ID for a 50' discount on any large pizza I 
2 MI. NORTH OF ND UP 31. 
LAST N I G H T TONIGHT: II DERANGED" 
tomorrow! 
jjTAKES OFF LIKE ABLAZING FOREST FIRE, WITH ATHRILL AMINUTE!" 
-Rex Reed, N.Y. Daily lvews 
JOSEPH E. LEVINE presem• 
GEORGE C. SCOTTin 
a MIKE NICHOLS tilm 

THE DAYTWE DOLPHIN 
Train for the 


Navy's sky now. 
Ifyou qualify, you can sign up for Navy flight training while you're still in college and be assured of the program you want. Our AOC Program (if you want to be a Pilot) or our NFOC Program (if you want to be a Flight Officer) can get you into the Navy sky for an exciting, challenging career. 
For more details, see the Navy Recruiter below. 
Be someone special. Fly Navy. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION see the NAVY information team on campus Feb. 18,19 and 20, or write Navy Aviation Programs, 536 S. Clark St., Chicago, Ill. 60605. 
. ~ t ,. ' ~ • ( I ( I l ~ \ I 



the ~6'bs·e:rve.r< ~~· ·­
3 
Armory schedule conflict 



No 'Irish Wake' for An Tostal? 


by Bob Quakenbush essential to An Tostal. Gasior 
Staff Reporter sumr.1ed up the group's decision, 
"Even though we don't have the 
No Irish wake~ That's the grim Armory, we will have the Irish possibility facing the An Tostal Wake. The only question is, Comr.1ittee as it begins its hectic where." preparations for the annual April Thus, during the next few weeks festival. the committee will scour the 
Addressing workers Wednesday vicinity for any barn, gymnasium, night in LaFortune's Fiesta or airplane hangar suitable for Lounge, coordinator Wally Gasior potential use as the site of the 1·evealed that the South Bend Wake. If the investigiation fails, a Armory, traditional site of An revision of the party's theme to Tostal's Irish Wake, will be r.1eet acceptable university unavailable on Saturday, April 20. standards r.1ight enable the Therefore, unless an alternative committee to abtain the use of location is found, the gala finale to Stepan Center. the weekend of frolic is in grave In other business, Gasior an­danger. nounced that $4,300 has been 
An Tostal, the three-day allocated to make up the ArvTostal celebration of Spring sponsored by budget for 1974. the Hall Presidents' Council, is stated for April 18, 19, and 20. A kaleidoscope of activity for students and faculty alike com­New Ideas Welcomed prise its schedule of tournaments, Peals, games, contests, and By next week, Gasior hopes to concerts. announce the names of the coor­
Traditionally, the Irish Wake, An dinators for each day of the Tostal's version of an armory festival, as well as directors for party, has closed out the publicity and advertising. In festivities. But this year, the well­addition, Gasior will name the worn comr.1ittee joke, "The only writers for the An Tostal booklet difference between an Irish which will be distributed to all wedding and an Irish wake is one students prior to the April less drunk," may itself be laid to celebration. rest. The Fiesta Lounge, Wednesday 
After brief discussion, the nights at nine, will be the regular comr.1ittee determined the Wake is Peeling place and time for the An 
Positive reactions support NDs energy conservation 
by Mark Derheimer Peans of reducing unnecessary 
Staff Reporter lighting.. 
The University Conservation But the Committee feels some 
Cornr.1ittee reported positive facilities, such as the residence 
reaction to its appeal for less halls, have not undertaken 
energy consumption. programs designed to save electric 
William Ganser, Chief Engineer power. It was decided that the best 
of the Power Plant, told the way of reaching those in the dorms 
UNECC yesterday that for the first would be through the Hall 
thirteen days of February, 7 Presidents' Council. The UECC 
percent less fuel was used then last will Pake a presentation at the 
year. This amounts to savings of Council's next r.1eeting. 
$2500. Ganser commented that It was also decided that campus­
there is a continuing downward wide participation in electricity 
trend in use of electricity. conservation would be achieved by 
Comr.1ittee members feel much comr.mnication with building r.Jore can be saved. Academic and deputies. The UECC will send student service buildings, such as recommendations to each building the Memorial Library, the deputy (in the case of residence Business and Engineering halls, the rector) and he will work buildings and the ACC already have with the people in that facility to undertaken programs to cut back achieve the goal of lower elec­on electric power. chiefly by tt~icity use. 

AT AUD. BOX-OFFICE 11 A.M. TO 5 P.M. AND OTHER OUTLETS BOOGIE RECORDS, SO. BEND & KALAMAZOO SUSPEND CHORD, ELKHART & GOSHEN PLAYBACK IN BENTON HARBOR & MISH. ALL SEATS RESERVED $5.00 
Tostal volunteers. Gasior urged roads lead to Notre Dame." come true. all creative people to attend the Gasior speculated that perhaps r:1eetings, and emphasized, "We're Rumors Flying some hall will produce Heston in a especially interested in getting spectacular r.1ove to capture the r:1ore St. Mary's people involved." Once again, the rumor is cir­coveted Jim E. Brogan Memorial 
New ideas will be especially culating that this may be the year Award, last awarded to Lyons Hall welcome. In fact, noted one that Charlton Heston himself will two years ago for their entry of an veteran An Tostal worker, "Two of take that road in order to trium­elephant (that's right, a real live 
last year's "First Time Ever" phantly lead the contestants in the pachyderm!) in the tug-<>f-war. events, the decathlon and the An Tostal Ben-Hur Chariot Race. Another worker had a special volleyball-in-the-mud tournament, "Who knows," said one worker, request, "Gentle Thursday, seem assured of spots in this year's who prefers to remain anonymous Frivolous Friday, Sunny Saturday­
An Tostal line-up." so as not to be held responsible for -start prayin' for sunshine, Notre 
Old favorites, such as the tug-<>f­starting the rumor this year, Dar.1ers, An Tostal's only two war, Trivia Bowl, Impersonation "r.'aybe this year our dream will r.,onths away!" he said. Contest, Ar.Jateur Hour, pie-eating .......•................................................ 
(and-throwing) contests will also 

END WINTER BLAHS WITH 
again be featured. 

/pring Get Away 
the.· observer .. Frida.y. F.ebruarlt .15;, 1974
Nightclub atmosphere 
New bar-The Playhouse opens 
by David Kaminski Starr Reporter 

The Playhouse, at 525 N. Hill Street, is not your average student bar·. However, perhaps it's not intended to be. 
When you walk intothe.foyerwith its fountain, you're given three options. In the center, you can walk up two stairs into the barroom. -To yow left, you could choose the VIP lounge. Or else, Pove to your right and down a flight of stairs to the lower level with its live entertainment on Friday and Saturday nights. 
The barroom is carpeted and weillit ~ Its walls are papered with ounce draft beer costs 40 cents. 

Also, the cover charge on the 
weekend will vary according to the 
)!roup performing. 
This weekend, Jesse Fisher and the 9th Street Exit, recording artists on the Way Out label, will perforr.1 at 10 p.m. and 1 a.m. 
The Playhouse is not yet in full operating condition. "I wouldn't have bet you a nickel that we would be able to open tonight," McGhee comr.,ented as he explained what is yet to come. 
When the kitchen is finished on 
The Playhouse welcomes anyone from 21 to 99. There is no dress code and price will be kept reasonable. 

USDA predict~ food price rise from 12 to 14 per cent in 1974 
By BERNARD BRENNER 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Re­tail food prices will go up another 12 to 16 per cent this year, the Agriculture Depart­r.1ent predicted Thursday. 
This would be on top of a record 16 per cent jump in grocery prices last year. · 
Department economists, in a new review of the food price outlook, painted a gloomier picture for shoppers than the one tentatively sketched several r.10nths ago. 
They said supermarket prices in the first quarter of this year are likely to average 20.7 per cent above the same period a year ago, and about 5 per cent higher than the last three r.10nths of 1973. 
The department's latest re­port said prices for nearly all rypes of food will be up this winter because of reduced supplies, higher farm prices and rising processing and r.1arketing costs. 
gold and black flocked wallpaper. Double doors open to the parking The leather padded bar seats about iot behind the Playhouse. 20, with small tables for anothr 50 Eddie McGhee and Johnny customer·s. Walker manage the Playhouse, 
The VIP lounge with its stuffed which was the Black Mikado of a swivel chairs and tables will seat few years past. McGhee also owns another 50 persons who want a a nightclub and two theatres in r.1ore relaxed atmosphere than the 'Cleveland. McGhee says, barroom. Wood-paneled and "Anyone from 21 to 99 is welcome. wallpapered, the VIP lounge has There is no dress code." the comfort of a large living room. The "no dress code" clientele of It is available for private parties. opening night varied from 
Downstairs, sconce lanterns and bluejeaned students to table candles dimly light a large, businessmen with coat and tie; carpeted room that will seat 350 frorn sweaters and work jackets to persons. A dance floor in front of floorlength coats, leather trousers the stage offers customers the and platform shoes. chance to dance to live en­According to the r.1anagement, tertainr.ler.,ent on the weekends. prices will be kept reasonable and 
in line with the economy. A 12­
The most probable result, the economists said, is a price level for all of 1974 averaging 12 per cent above 1973. 
But if farm production turns out "much below" present expectations and demand proves stronger than forecast, food prices could average as much as 16 per cent above 1973. 
The report indicated that most of this year's increases will be felt in the first half of the year. It said consumers can expect food prices to level off in the summer and show a "small decline" in the last three months of the year because of increased beef supplies and record grain harvests. 
In a prepared speech for delivery at Oklahoma State University in Stillwater, Agriculture Secretary Earl L. Butz said consumers must expect to pay high prices for r.1eat in early 1974 to give farmers the profit incentive to increase supplies -and thus lower prices -later in the year. The department estimated in 




STATE THEATRE 
NOW 
YOU 
CAN 
SEE 


THE EXORCIST 
BUT-NOT IF Starting FRIDAY 
YOU COVER advance sales 
'•' ,',',. 1~1 


December that supermarket prices in the first three months of this year might average about 15 per cent above a year earlier. But food prices already have climbed by 20.7 per cent over a year ago. 
Department economists said they hoped bigger-than-expect­ed production gains and lower­! han-expected foreign and domestic demand would put a lid on food prices. 
If that happens, they said, food prices for the year might average only about 8 per cent higher than last year. 

the lower level, the Playhouse will r-,achines and TV tennis games. serve pizza, fish and chips, and Three separate roms, fully other short order food. The kitchen car·peted, and with padded fur­will be opening for lunch at noon. niture, the Playhouse is a sur­
In addition to the kitchen, prising new place in the group of another yet-to-be-completed room nightspots in the Notre Dame downstairs will contain pinball neighborhood. 
SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH 

5:15pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC 
9:30 am Sun. Fr. Edward Malloy, CSC 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, CSC 
12:15 pm Sun. Fr. William Toohey, CSC Evensong 4:30 pm Lady Chapel 

'Tearafter ye_·ar, seme"iter I after "ieme"iter. the ( 'ollegeMaster' from Fidelit\ Union Life has been the most acceptl'tl, most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
(all the Fidelitv Union College Master·· Field Associate m your area: 


1 005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend , Ind. 


Phone 287-2327 
COl 

Carllon Higgenbotham 


Student Union Invites You To 


ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
Y2 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar 

* 
Baggage handling &transportation to &from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
HURRY! SOME SEATS STILL AVAILABLE! 
Questions • call Sween at 3669 
~·~·,..·~';',. ~·j· .·,-, ,•C~l'l'l'l''< 41~ •_,.•,•·~~~•,•, .~.', •,•.• •• ·.•••• ~'-.' • .''I ",• Ill' ,•,' t'l~ I\'+ II 
~ ---­

Campus briefs ••• 
Choral groups 
tape concerts 
Three choral organizations sponsored by the University of Notre Dame's Music Depart­Pent are preparing taped concert programs rhe week for Holy Week and Easter Sunday viewing. The televised concerts will be aired at a time when students are off campus for and Easter break. 
Two of the organizations, the University Chorus and Chapel Choir, were formed this year, and will be r-1aking their first television appearance under the direction of Dr. David Isele, composer-in­residence, and Sue Seid, organist: The Glee Club, presently com­pleting plans for a concert tour of southeastern states, will join the r:1ixed singing groups for the pmgrams on WNDU-TV. 
Varied Easter music, ranging from early Renaissance works to a contemporary piece for electronic tape, organ, and chorus, will be performed. A feature of the Good Friday and Easter Sunday programs will be per­formpedormance of Handel's "Messiah" in an arrangement that includes accompaniment by Moog synthesizer. 


"Exorcist" tix for .ND students 
400 rickets for "The Exorcist" which starts tonight at the Stat~ 
Theater in downtown South Bend, will be held for Notre Dame­Sr. Mary's students and faculty for rhe Saturday, 1 pr:1 showing. 
Nixon presses for passage of medical aid 
Hy EUGENE V. RISHER 
MIAMI <UPIJ ~ President 
Nixon, r:1aking his first political 
appearance outside Washington 
in nearly three months, ignored 
several hundred detractors 
Thursday and stumped for 
passage of his medical pro­
gram. 
The occasion was a dedica­
tion ceremony for a new 
building at Miami's Cedars of 
LeBanon Medical Complex. 
II came as his lawyers in 
Washington were turning down 
a request for additional presi­
dential tapes and documents by 
special Watergate prosecutor 
Leon Jaworski. 
Presidential spokesman Ge­
rald L. Warren declined to 
disclose contents of the ex­
change between Jaworski and 
James D. St. Clair, the chief 
White House counsel. But he 
repeated assertions that Nixon 
felt Jaworski already had 
enough information to permit 
the grand juries "to proceed 
with their work without further 
delay." 
The crowd of 3,()()()-most of rher.1 invited by Nixon's hosts­was generally friendly but about 300 protestors flashed signs saying "Nixon Makes Us Sick-Impeach for Justice" and "Impeach and Ir.1p1·ison." 
plnnning n \\('(kling'? 
(•all Tlw 234-5822 
fu'<kling Phofo~rnph<-,. 
234-5822 MICHAEL LONIER 
===. ~ 
determine how people will cope 

The tickets will be distributed with the energy shortage. The from a special booth beginning at Notre Dame research team hopes noon. Price of these tickets will be to determine to what extent per­$3.00, and will be available on a sonal sacrifice varies with such 
first-come, first-serve basis. things as occupation, personality, Gary Zebrun, director of the characteristics, and geographic Sophor.){)re Literary Festival region. 
Pade the announcen1ent at last Approximately 1,600 statistically night's appearance of the film's selected people from throughout 
star, Jason Miller, in Washington the country will be interviewed for Hall, sponsored by the SLF. 
rhe study. Srudents's r.,ust present ID The research group will be aided cards to obtain the reserved by the Social Psychology 
Laboratory of the University ofrickets. 

Chicago. Louis Harris Associates, Inc., a national public opinionND center gets survey organization, will assist in preparation of interview energy grant questionnaires and will conduct 
interviews. 

Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary SIU ChoraleSociety has received a grant of $70,000 from the Shell Oil Company to study public reaction to the fuel appears Sunday
shortage. The object of the research, 
The Southern Illinois Universitysupervised by Dr. William T. Liu, Chorale of Carbondale will joindh·ector of the center, is 

Notre Dame's Chapel Choir in the performance of special motets at the 10:45 a.m. Mass Sunday, February 17, in .Sacred Heart Church. Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh Notre Dame president, will be the principal celebrant. 
The chorale emphasizes the performance of 20th Century choral literature and offers its young singers and soloists the opportunities for unique musical experiences through con­remporary music. Mr. Pressley, a 
renor, received his training at Peabody Conservatory and the University of Michigan. He has performed with several r.1ajor orchestras and in solo operaticperformances. 

School house Too 
In the Brewery 100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 

The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student ID HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUN AY 

m$:o:{: 

AND PRIZE 

SAAB99LE. The pride of Swedish engineering. cam engine, rack and pinion steering, 




Dannon®Yogurt Winter Carnival Sweepstakes 
I :: 
20 PAIRS HART SKIS 
Competition USA model, Hart fiberglass, foamed wood core 
'!" 
20 YASHICA CAMERAS Atoron Electro model. Automatic ultra-miniature camera 
50 SAMSONITE'SUIT-PAKS Carries two men's suits, shirts, shoes, etc. Expense-paid week for two in Austria via Icelandic Airlines. Enjoy the !-------------------------1 fabulous resort of Kitzbuhel. 
250 WHOLE EARTH CATALOGS 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus 

Art Ferranti  Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett  
Executive Editor  Executive Editor  
Lee Gentine Business Manager  NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471  John Kloos Advertising Manager  

Friday, February 15, 1974 

Approve the Plan 
Monday afternoon, the officers of the University will be presented the plan that has been developed by the LaFortune Renovation Committee for modernizing the facilities of the student center. Dr. Phillop Faccenda will present the plan. 
The plan is an adaptation of an earlier plan which featured a large Irish pub in the Rathskellar area of LaFortune. The earlier plan was never rejected but the Trustees balked at the $200,QOO-plus price tag that was put on the Pub alone. 
The new plan includes an Irish Pub along the southern end of the basement area of the student center. The Pub will not be as large as nor as expensive as the earlier one. 
The plan that will be presented to the officers is a reasonable one and good one. The aesthetics of the plan are based around a solid philosophy for what a student center should be. The plan is good in all aspects and the officers should give it considerable attention and likewise their approval. 
The approval ofthe officers is not ab­solutely necessary for the plan which is to go to the Trustees in March. But it would certainly go before the Trustees in better shape if the officers were to add their approval. Granted, when you're talking in terms of million dollar renovation, you gave to be careful. But this plan is solid and it has been in the works for nearly two years now. 
The route to renovation of the student center should begin Mond~y with the approval by the University's officers of the renovation plan. 
-Jerry Lutkus 


The Patriot •IS Free 
The arrest and deportation of novelist Alexander Solzhenitsyn is both a tragedy and a blessing. It's a tragedy for obvious reasons. It further clarifies the op­pression and totalitarian nature of the Soviet Union. It is a tragedy for all time that one of the major powers of history is a state of oppression and repression that prevents men of Solzhenitsyn's quality from speaking out. 
It is a blessing again for some more obvious reasons. The free world is now honored with the presence of one of the finest and most courageous novelists in our midst. It has freed Solzhenitsyn from the enforced silence of the Soviet state. 
In some respects, the freedom of Solzhenitsyn today can be directed back to the detente created between Russia and the U.S. Since the initiation of the detente, the Soviet Union has seemed to become more concerned about the reaction and opininions of the Western world-to the extent of softening its emmigration rules for Soviet Jews. In may ways, the freedom of Solzhenitsyn may be based on that detente. 
-Jerry Lutkus 


'OK, WHERE IS IT? WHERE'S MY LlnLE BLACK BOOK OF PHONE NUMBERS??' 
--~ ---~~-----------------­
Last: Paint: 
Solzhenitsyn --The 
Buzzing Mosquito 
j.napier 
Alexander Solzhenitsyn was arrested in Moscow Tuesday by the Soviet state prosecutor; the state police forcibly taking the author ft:orn his home. Wednesday, the Soviet authroities, with the greatest dtspatch and r·Hlst efficient jurisprudence, announced Solzhenitsyn's fate. The lonely writer of freedom received the sentence of banish­f.1ent to West Germany, stripping him of his Soviet citizenship. 
For days, r.1Urmurs circulated through out the free world speculating on the charges the Soviets intended to bring. Would the Soviets use Solzhenitsyn's livng with his wife in Moscow without a visitor's permit as an excuse for exiling the author to remote Russia, or would the Soviets level more serious charges requiring con­centration camp punishment. For Solzhenitsyn, the decision was probably worse than a r.1artyrdom in Siberia. He must now leave the country who he fought for in war and in peace, the country he has loved for fifty-five years. 
Solzhenitsyn's struggle with the Soviet regime began after World War II when he spent ten years as a political prisoner, learning first hand the reality of the Stalinist era. These experiences helped Solzhenitsyn create his first masterpiece of human suffering, "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich." With this work, the Russian author began his role as a speaker of historical truth. Last December, Solzhenitsyn the publication of his second masterpiece of the brutality of r.1an, "The Gulag Archipelago." Alexander Solzhenitsyn has written his last masterpiece on Russian soil. 
The official Soviet r.1edia has sought to discredit the author's last book, calling it the work of a traitor and claiming it endorses the ac­tions of a group of Russians who betrayed the f.lotherland and fought with the Nazis in World War II. But these distortions of the truth and personal attacks against a giant of contemporary literature are r.,eaningless compared with the latest Soviet actions. Since the authorization for publication of "The Gulag Archipelago" until the author's arrest, Soviet agents devoted their working hours to threatening Solzhenitsyn's wife and family. Now, the prosecutor's office, with orders from the Communist Politburo, is moving to end the r.1osquito's irritation which Solzhenitsyn's words have caused. Last week, the prosecutor's office issued a summons for the author to appear before ther.'. When Solzhenitsyn refused the order, the government police arrested the Russian mosquito. Wednesday brought word of the author's exile. 
In a statement released earlier this month, Solzhenitsyn said, "The defense of world public opinion makes it so far impossible to kill the author or even to arrest him. That would be the best confirmation of the book." Unfortunately, the confirmation of Soviet horrors, which f.lost of the world already believes, is a small price for the insensitive. A nation whose leaders unflinchingly remember Hungary and Czechoslovakia do not shirk from snatching a pesky, buzzing mosquito of truth. As a result, the Soviet state has muffled the author and deported him. Although public opinion could not prevent his arrest, it did prevent the USSR from slapping the mosquito, permitting him to 'emain free, but free only outside Russia. 
In the light of Solzhenitsyn's recent ordeal, the r.1eaning of the spirit of literature becomes obvious. While the western world has enjoyed a festival of this spirit for decades, a courageous man struggled to bring as r.JUch freedom as he could to an unfree place. In the context of Solzhenitsyn's struggle, the words speech, justice, love and life assume a r.J.eaning outside the realm of cliches. For Solzhenitsyn, speech in Russia was a non-reality because he was unable to publish; love was restricted because the police prevented him fror.1 ·legally living with his family; justice never existed because when he spoke the truth he was persecuted; life was partially a mirage because as he lived the authroities threatened him. Despite these conditions, Solzhenitsyn's writing still contained the truth. He still refused to subr.1it to the party definition of speech, justice, love and life. Because he refused to conform, Solzhenitsyn gave Russia a glance at freedom. 
Critics have praised Solzhenitsyn and compared him to Doestoyevsky, but, no matter his prose ability, this Russian stands even r.10re importantly as a man best described by that vague and noble word "truth". That word is his life. Solzhenitsyn recently said, "Maybe they will crush both them and me, but they will not crush the tt·uth." · 
Mr. Solzheni tsyn is right. They could not crush the buzzing f.'osquito, only move him. How much harder it will be to crush the tt·uth. 

daanesbury ,.arry trudeau 
the observer 

&c \._.,-(....
~ O@~ENATORS, 1/IE ...., Bi/T.Bl/T./1:5 NOT 08@.:_ @e{J~e­
~ . OVER! I SWeM 111 I /') ­
,7fl OIL-/NOU5TRY /1,/'l 
] !1tJST I'~01EST CAN P/lOYE IT! I'VE 601 I" FVt.t-TOO tAT~ OfJR. CHAR.T5, GR.APHS, YOfJ
THIS ARBITRMY !JISctOSUR£
CZAR NAME IT! :I'/'1 EVEN PR&-100 WHAT ARE WE GOING
r ANO~USS 
OF 

~ HAS'-PAREP TO SHOW YOfJ umE 10 1£/...L 1HE
~ eNOING Or THE ,R&S&R.VES/
5POKEN, ~Vf()IISLY IINPISCUJ5BJ tuE'R£ ANO 100 5TOCKHOL[)ERS?
~ £NER6Y CRISIE.'l 

Night Editor: AI Rutherford Asst. Night Editors: Terry Keeney, Gary 
Allietta Layout: Joel Burian Editorial Apprentice: Mike Donovan Copy Editor: Greg Rowinski Day Editors: Zenon Bidzinski, Val Zurblis Typists: Camille Arrieh, Claire Kelley, 
Gary Allietta , Bill Menk, Mike Seidel Compugraphics: Bob Steinmetz Pictures: Jerome 
Sports: Vic Dorr Letters Sifter: Butch Ward Night Controller: Howard Halle 



Letters Ta A Lanely Eiad 
the skin of our teeth 

reverend rabert r:~riffin 
I have just talked by phone with my mother up in Maine. She is nearly eighty years old, and she is waiting for a snowstorm because she just bought over­shoes, and there is a new snowmobile in the house where she lives. I phoned her because I was depressed, and my cheek was heavy with toothache. Her laughter, so warm and strong and full of love, made me feel as though I were twenty again, or maybe nine and a half, and I knew that the world is still beautiful, because there are mothers waiting for Valentine's Day who can become as excited over the winter as though they were rnittened children playing in the snowdrifts. 
Somewhere in the world, there are critics who conspire (though maybe not really) against us. Somewhere in the Church, there are Christians who feel we do not serve the Lord as well as they do; the fear of what they can cost us gives a new restlessness to our nights, and a gloom to the sunshine of our mornings. There are infirmities we bear in the flesh, like the decay that exposes the nerve ends of our teeth, or the sickness in our stomachs that vomits up the over­doses of Excedrin and Darvon we have taken to help us sleep through the pain without the half-dreams that threaten madness. Just when we are beginning to feel that the human condition is anything but a bed of roses, we talk by phone with our own Queen Rose of the rosebud garden. She 
says: "Your voice sounds as young now as, absurd, since I see nothing redemptive in a 
it did forty years ago," and we are renewed in innocence, born once more to childhood, and the gentle perjuries of love have made us whole again. 
I am grateful for the mother's words that know the art of healing. During the past week when I have been humiliated by toothache, and embarrassed by bad teeth, I have looked for someone to help me who is less cosmic than Christ, more real than the Tooth Fairy. I found St. Apollonia, a virgin and r.1artyr who is invoked by dentistry. "St. Apollonia was seized by the insurgent heathen who tortured her by knocking out her teeth," says the Catholic Encyclopedia. 
toothache; and I have as model neither saviour nor saint, but only my own comic kinsman, Henry Fowler. Henry was a sailor who shipped out of Portland, Maine, to ports-of-call all over the globe. In many of these ports, suffering from toothache, he had called on dentists and undergone ex­tractions. As an old man, he could say he had left teeth behind him on every con­tinent, as other sailors leave behind their sweethearts in every port. When he finally retired from the sea, Henry had just three teeth left in his whole head, one upper and two lower; and the upper slid between the other two like the matching piece of a 
"A pile of faggots was prepared to burn her, puzzle. but, threatened with death, Apollonia chose Everyone would say: "Henry, why don't to embrace it voluntarily and sprang into you have those teeth out, and get some of the the fire. Invoked against toothache, her store-bought kind?" emblems at·e the tooth and a pair of pincers. Henry would shake his head."I need those Her feast is celebrated on February ninth." teeth," he said. "I need them for smilin"'­
and he would smile and exhibit those three 
Faced by a pile of faggots prepared to yellow tusks for you--"And I need them for burn me, I r.1ight have done as Apollonia bitin' into apples, and I need them for did; but to tell you the truth, between the gnawin' at corn-on-the-cob." faggots and the toothache, I don't think her In spite of all inducements, Henry hung choices were any too terrific. Significantly onto those teeth, though at times they must enough for those who see meaning in such have ached, and they certainly weren't things, my own lonely passion as a tooth pretty to look at. In autumn, you would see Partyr ended on February ninth him biting into apples, just as he said; in Apollonia's feast day. I see meaning in such sumr.1er you would find him gnawing at things, because, with teeth like mine, I need corn-on-the-cob. He was not willing to die to count all the help I can get. toothless, and he didn't die toothless, and 
Suffering such as mine seems secular and when he recited the psalm "Those who go down to the sea in ships" for the last time, those teeth, yellow and tusk-like, bit off the words. Henry had asked the undertaker if he couldn't have those teeth showing when he was laid out in his coffin, but the un­dertaker said it couldn't be done. If it were done, Henry's wife told him, as his widow she would leave him. She would never get any eternal rest, she said, lying in a grave beside a r.1an with his bare teeth sticking out. 

There is a law in nature by which, little by little, bit by bit, earth calls us back into the heart of darkness. Ther·e is a law in our flesh that resists our reduction to the elemental level of blind and silent existence, unstirred by either heartbeat or spirit. In the struggle between earth and flesh, our suffering as r.1en begins. It is then that I must know that-my pain--so private to my midnight, so remote from Christ--is part of God's suffering. 
Christ is the Holy One, and Apollonia is His redeemed saint. Together they blend into one pattern of suffering shaped as a cross. In them I can recognize the face of the suffering God. By what faith can a man look into his own faith, and seeing the pain, say to himself, "God suffers."? 
The answer comes back as wise as a 

r.'other's love: if God were suffering, God 
would go to the dentist. · 
In an eyeball-to-eyeball encounter with 

the suffering God, I don't think it was He 
Who just blinked. 


brutality characterizes oates' work 
The tragedies of Ar.,erican society. Tragedies of love. Of hate. Emotional tragedies that twist and turn in a never­ending web. These are the writings of Joyce Carol Oates. Her wm·ks are a study of the hur.1an experience in all its brutality and violence. A study that lays bare the vulnerability of all human relat~onships. 
Joyce Carol Oates' characters are in­tensely unique. And because they are so unique they are extremely dramatic. Their lives contradict and clash in external bat­tles, of daughter against father-lover against lover, and internal confusion. Most of Oates' characters struggle to find out what they want, what they need, or whether they even want at all. As in her short story­
Dying: 
You wert' my only friend at college, too. Latt>r on. when I didn't see you much anymore, I still thought about you. That was what upset me-l always thought about you, you were always there. I didn't want you so close to me, do you understand? You ~rt>att>d somt>thing in me that stayed alive ... 
The style of writing that Joyce Carol Oates works with is tight and compact. 


Everything pushes on to the climatic er.,otionaJ events. These emotional clir.1axes are numerous throughout her novels. However, the violence of these dir.1axes do not end in freedom for the characters. They are eternally caught and frustrated. Oates' short story The Child­Martyer totally captures this image of ir-1prisonr.1ent. It is a story of the Child­Martyer depicted in a church window: 

Famous, must he become famous and martyrt>d once again, so that no one will hear the sly innuendos in the moans, no one will smash the mirror and free him? Anotht>r possibility, which terrifies him t'Vt'n more, is that they will seize upon the parody and stumble away with it, stunned and giggling with it, and the original pain-so rt>al, so exquisite!-will be totally lost. 
Joyce Carol Oates is not only a writer-she is also a critic. In her collection of essays on tragedy entitled, "The Edge of Im­possibility", she explores tragic forms in literature handling such writers as Shakespeare, Chekhov, Yeats and Ionesco. She believes that, "The art of tragedy grows out of a break between self and community, a sense of isolation. At its base is fear." 
The 1970 National Book Award went to Joyce Carol Oates for her move!, Them. Ar.,ong her other novels are, A Garden of Earthly Delights, Expensive People, With Shuddering Fall, and Wonderland. Besides these she has written four collections of stories, two books of poems and numberable reviews. 
Joyce Carol Oates will speak in the 

singer's spirit world 
"I truly believe there are forces and spirits in this world about which we know ve1·y little, which influence our lives." Yiddish writer Isaac Singer's lecture on "Jewish Literature and the Supernatural" should prove a fitting climax to the Sophomore Literary Festival. Born in provincial Poland in 1904, he spent his childhood in Warsaw. In 1935, Singer came to the United States. His novels, and collections of stories which "The Spinoza of Market Street, The Slave, The Magician of Lublin and Black Friday, are haun<ing accounts of Jewish life and lore. 
Singer's literature represents a fusion of contraries. Although he writes in the narrative tradition, spurning the stream of consciousness used by many modern writers, his works are often literary studies of psychological phenomena. Although his writings are profoundly theological and philosophical, they often contain grotesque and luridly sexual passages. 

Isaac Singer's belief in the absolute and present 1·eality of the spiritual world is reflected in the large numbers of super­natural characters and narrators found in his work. "I find it very easy to believe in reincarnation, possession by devils, and other such things," says Singer. "We have f.'any proofs that they exist. 'Singer believes that there are possibly beings that are too large for nan to see which control man r-'uch in the way that microbes affected Pan for years before their discovery. 
Singer's vegetarian diet is the product of his belief in the supernatural. According to 1lir.1, higher beings can only treat us as well as we treat lower nature. As long as man 
by leanne jacques 


Library Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. Friday night. Refreshr.Jents will be served af­terwards in the Library Lounge. Cor.1e join her for an evening of entertainr.1ent and stir-'ulation. 
by jim donathen 
kills for food, war and killing will exist. 

In recent years, Singer's writing has been concentrated on the writing of children's books. "I see the child as a last refuge," writes Singer. The trend of literature in the 19th and 20th centul'ies has lost sight r~f its entertainr.1ent value by becoming a r.1ode of teaching. Singer's philosophy of literture is er.1bodied in his quote: "When I tell a story, I tell a story." He looks to the child for refuge because "no child is altruistic enough to read a book because it might help society on progress. The child is still selfish enough to demand an interesting story ... I believe that if literature for adults is destined for revival it will come from literature for children." 
Isaac Singer is a lively, warm, and humorous lecturer. So, make a point of enjoying the finals of the literary festival. 
the observer 
Friday, February 15, 1974 




An Insight 

Dear Editor: 
I think that for all the Notre Dar.1e Pen this weekend offers a fine lesson to be learned. We were L:iven a chance to contrast our own Notre Darne women with those ·'cows" shipped in for the weekend. 
As the sweltering heat of sum­r:,er allows us to savor so much f.l(ll'e fully the winter's cold and snow; as the bright hussling day r.>akes us yearn for the peaceful dark solitude of night, so those boorish outsiders have allowed us 1o realize the quality of wor.1anhood we have been given. 
It is truly refreshing to review in r.>y r.1ind the value of these diamond-studded ladies whom we all cherish with quixotic devotion. I look over r.1y past two years at du Lac, and outstanding among rny r.1any r.'emories are those many weekend nights I have sat blissfully pondering the worth of our Notre Dar.1e beauties. So, look not on those shipments of human flotsar.1 with unkind eyes, but with contented welcome for a long needed spotlight to silhouette the beautiful shape of the women at Notre Dar.1e. 
As you like it, 
Matt KPifer 


A Riotous Waste 
Dear Editor: 

On one occasion last semester, 
some residents of Keenan Hall 
participated in a food riot in "B" 
line of the North Dining Hall. The 
result was typical of any other food 
riot. Bystanders, food dripping 
from their clothes, stumbled 
through broken dishes to the door. 
Dining hall employees were forced 
to clean food turned to garbage 
from chairs and windows. And 
those who would expect the 
students to show a modicum of 
r.1aturity and respect for others 
were once again disillusioned. 
So we decided that if there was 
anything that we as a hall staff 
could do to discourage Keenan 
residents from pari:icipating in 
food riots, we ought to do it. 
We were able to determine who 
from Keenan was involved in the 
riot. However, because we had 
never taken disciplinary action 
against food rioters before, we 
were unsure of how to proceed. We 
contacted the management of the 
dining hall to see if the guilty could 
be put to work to make up for the 
damage and the disruption they 
caused. For several good reasons, 
the dining hall declined our offer. 
And so we required those involved 
to clean up after an upcoming hall 
party as well as !io some main­
tainence in the Keenan basement. 
However, to deter food fights in 
the future, we decided that from 
then on, anyone form Keenan 
involved in a food fight would be 
fined a minimum of $10. No ex­
ceptions. 
We don't know what might be 
related to what, but since then we 
haven't heard of another food riot 
involving Keenan residents. 
Please correct us if we are wrong. 
Food riots are so childish that we 
feel something can and should be 
done to prevent them. Equally as important, we feel that this is a r.1atter for individual hall staffs to discipline against. 
We would urge other hall staffs, if they haven't already done so, to adopt a policy to prevent food riots. 
It is perhaps silly to make an issue of food riots when we could be concerned with much more im­portant matters. But it is even r.1ore silly that food riots occur at all. There's just no reason why anyone sitting down for a meal should have to put up with such a nuisance. 
Respectfully, 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
Rev. Richard Conyers 
Patrick Boyle 
John Thornton 
Charles Nau 
David Kaminski 
Martin Hagan 
Allen Thomas 
Charles Cardillo 
Bernard King 
Forcing 


Parents Off 
Dear Editor: 
In response to your article concerntng junior parents weekend <Feb. 12, 1974l, I feel one r:,or.1entous activity was grossly overlooked. Of course, the "real ND atmosphere" is more than exer.,plified by a dinner in the North 'Dining Hall, the Friday night hockey game followed by a cocktail party bill what will surely culminate our parent's weekend under the Dor.1e is the following-I propose that every junior's parents be assigned a room in the Morris Inn <contingent upon a $50 room reservation fee). With the parents securely housed at the Morris Inn a proclamation shall be heralded by an er.1innent r.1ember of Flanner's 
500. At said time, the Royal Moose <Father Mulcahy) will proclaim that due to severe overcrowding and the added influx of mothers, an Inn-wide lottery shall be con­ducted. All those junior parents who fail to receive a low number shall be evicted post haste to fend for themselves in an attempt to secure an 0-C motel. 
Only in this way can our junior parents hope to be introduced into 'he "real Notre Dame at­r.>osphere". 
Scott W. Allen-'75 2.t9 Alumni 

Absurdity 
Dear __ttor: Jingling 16 cents in the palm of my hand, I strolled over to the 

!'b·;~tl ;::::;~•llr 
I 

Janntkt -oust 
negligent, my book was eight days overdue. The time had come to meet my judge and pay the fine. I tested a faint smile and practiced r.1y short, humble confession. Why, with a good perforr.1ance I r.1ight even be spared the fine. The the 16 cents could be a coffee, tenderly sipped as I savored my victory. ­
"Hi," I said, "You dropped me a card and here's the book you want. I'm sorry it's late. It got lost on my desk." "r·'Y, eight days, "she said, "that's a fine." I would take something special to get this one out of the fire, so I grinned stupidly and started mumbling in­coherently. But it wasn't going to work, this doll looked tough. "Two dollars," she demanded. I laughed, she'd be laughing too. I thought; that was a wild comeback. I'd find change for another coffee and later we could laugh at it all again. Her use of the absurd was perfect. Her humor warmed me. 
She didn't laugh. I took me a r.10ment to realize that she was serious. This was unreal, I'd need nothing short of divine inspiration to get out of this. None came. I was left grasping for 'he proper response. "But the damn book isn't worth two cents," I said, still r.>aintaining the humble restraint approach. "Twenty-five cents a day times eight days, two dollars." I dug deep into my pockets and paid r.1y fine. 
Strolling home I chuckled 
r.'ildly, another prob-lem.  More  
room  for  absurdity  had  to  be  
stuffed into my world.  

Mark Stanczyk 

Stop Beefing 
Editor: 
The letters in Thursday's and Friday's Observers showed what we consider a very sad and un­fortunate attitude prevalent among the Notre Dame student body. None of the opinions ex­pressed, male or female, have focused objectively on the real problem behind I he "cattle" controversy. 
The problem, as we see it, is not whether students from other colleges should be invited to spend a weekend on this campus. It really doesn't make any difference to us if there are new people around. What bothers us is the poor social atmosphere and at­titudes of both Notre Dame men and Notre Dame women. 
We came here for the same reasons that any student goes to any good university--to be educated. We're not guests invited here to fulfill a special role because we're women. As 


c.•embe" of th~unive:~ 

~. I 

"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
:$=:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::a 
:::: 35 Varieties of Pancakes ~:~: 
::::chicken -Steak -Sandwiches ::::: i~~; Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :~~~~ :~:::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;*: 
. U.S. 31 ( Dixieway) North Your Host J (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edward ND '50 


munity, we share equally in the "scared of the competition." To good and the bad experiences of us, this seems to be a defense social and academic life. r.1echanism to avoid the real issue. 
We realize the negative con­The problem is the attitude of sequences of the ratio here, but which these letters were sadlybelieve it or not, they do not affect indicative, and the only solution is 
only the guys. Just as guys tiaveto for us all to realize that it is about overcome their fear of being "shot time for everyone to reexamine down," girls have to face negative their attitudes. attitudes that have been formed We only hope that the extreme 
before a relationship even begins. opinions expressed are not held byWe realize the problems of r.1ost students, and that readers "dating" on a campus where there know that most of us don't agreeis often little to do and most with "those at home on the range."students are limited financially After 1112. years of coeducation, and transportation-wise. But with iet's stop "beefing" and be fair to 
some honest thought and effort, one anothP.J . guys would realize that very few of Terry Blaha the girls on this campus are dating Patty Culler often. Dating is one important Sheila Elsner iype of social interaction, but just Betsy Fallon as important is an atmosphere Mary Therese Foster which allows natural and informal Donna Losurdo socializing between men and women. Unfortunately, 
ACAPULCO

generalization, fears, and unfair attitudes among both men and 
SUNNY 

women here often make honest interaction impossible. 
85° 

We are really sorry if you think that we are so selfish that we are 


THE ROMA 

welcomes all Notre Dame & St. Mary's students your host Frank Anastasio 
This weekend, rock entertainment by CANTALOUPE ISLAND 
Pi:z:za * Fine Italian Food * Liquor for deliveries call 234-3258 
Upstairs in the Attic -Acoustical Music 219 N. _Mich. Ave. Downtown South Bend 
If you compare, you'll select ltna... If you don't compare, don't say we didn't warn you! 
JIM CAMPBELL  
120 W. LaSalle Street  
Suite 1001  
South Bend, Indiana 233-8207 The IEtna College Plan ...  1i§ufi1 LIFE&CASUALTY 

Life Insurance for students 
A::tna Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
·-------------........
AN EVENING WITH 
Rod

McKuen 
LIVE, IN PERSON, WITH ORCHESTRA 

IN CONCERT· FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 22 • 8 PM! 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM ·SOUTH BEND, IND. RESERVED SEATS $4.50-5.50-6.50 
Now on sale at Morris Auditorium Box Office, or by mail. Send payment with self-addressed, stamped envelope to: McKuen, Morris Aud,, 211 N. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
Special Notre Dame-St. Mary's Discount! 
$1.00 off each ticket. Purchase discounted 
tickets at Morris Auditorium Box Office! 
...........___.........;..,;··.;.,;;;;-;;;,;-;....;.·..;...··;.....·..;,_,;..·.;..;;··...;..·-~-..;...---·______,. 
----~----­
, , . Friday, February 15, .1974 the observer 
9 
Tornado catching 
ND ·s Morgan search for storms is successful 

For the past two years Dr. Bruce Morgan has spent a portion of each spring zigzagging across Oklahoma's checkerboard of farms and oil fields ... searching. 
On May 24, 1973, assistant professor of civil engineering found what he was looking for-a powerful storm which spawned a tornado before .his eyes. 
"It was a very peculiar sight," Morgan recalled. "The sun was shining where we were. There was no sound; we couldn't hear anything. Very light debris-tiny pieces of paper-floated down, blowing in the wind iike snow. Three miles away from us this 3,000-foot tornado looking sor.1ething like a gigantic ice­cream cone was smashing through Union City, Oklahoma. This big white colunm was just grinding its way across the ground." 
Morgan and a three-person team from the National Severe Storms Laboratory <NSSL) recorded the tornado on film and made qualitative scientific observations. The team shot more then 40,000 
frames of film by the time the funnel finished its 10-mile path of destruction and curled back up into the clouds. 
Two years earlier, when he had subr.1itted his orginal proposal to r.'easure a tornado's destructive forces, most of the experts rolled their eyes and shook their heads. "It would be nice," they said, "but tornadoes are too rare a phenomenon. You just can't go out and hunt one up." 
Unconvinced, the Notre Dame researcher ran_ a computer simulation 18,000 times. The results confirmed his hunch that "catching" a tornado would be possible. 
On the basis of Morgan's preliminary findings, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad­Pinistration (NOAA} provided hir.1 with funds to develop a navigational scheme and procedures for a storm-tracking crew. 
In the spring of 1972, he went to Norman, Oklahoma, to test his system. The days generally were spent the same way in Oklahoma. 
The next spring, the storm trackers had rnore severe weather than they could handle. The United States made up for the deficit of tornadoes with a few extra. Tornadoes formed at a record rate throughout the entire country. 
For Morgan and the other r.'embers of the chase crew, the successful tracking and photographing of the Union City tornado was the highlight of the season. The researcher believes r-'uch valuable scientific in­forr-1ation can be culled from the Union City film. "For example, he said, "•he tomado's size versus tir.1e can be reconstructed and compared to the various computer r.'odels which have been developed." 
Morgan, who also is researching structural stress in tollway bridges, believes future tornado Pissions may use portable radars to determine wind velocity and special probes to determine pressure distributions. "If we could discover these two things, we could do a better job in designing buildings." 
With the "·ackin!! procedures proven, Morgan intends to confine his tornado research role more to program planning and data analysis. He's had his share of whirlwind tours. 
·----­


Art benefactor Mayer is dead 
News of the death of Robert B. Mayer, friend and benefactor of 
the Notre Dar.'e-Art Gallery, has been received by the school's ArtIs it true that the Sky lab 3 crew had gastric problems? 

Department. Mr. Mayer died January 14 in Winnetka, Ill., where Yes. In fact, William R. Pogue estir.,ated that he was passing gas he resided.

about 500 times a day. Fortunately, Skylab was equipped with Mr. and Mrs. Mayer contributed charcoal cannisters that counteracted the otherwise offensive 33 paintings, mainly post­sr.,ell . Space agency doctorsfelt that the problem was due to a Rennaisance and Flemish works,cor.,bination of weightlessness, diet, and air bubbles in the drinking to the Gallery during a long period water. An effort is presently underway that hopefully will come up of friendship.
with sor.1e alternatives to eliminate the problem. 
I was wondering if you could help me out. I would like to know which 
halls have co-ex meal tickets for Sunday, Feb. 17, because it's my 
!>ister's birthday and I would like to celebrate it with her. In case I haven't made it clear, she goes to SMC. 
Aecording to the schedule we found, Flanner, Walsh, and St. Joe's 
The
are on deck for tickets that night. Just in case someone has a sister whose birthday is Friday night, the halls that have tickets include Aiur.mi, Zahm, and Fischer. No co-ex tickets are available on Sarur·day nights, because that's steak night at SMC. 
When are Senior Fellow Petitions due in and who can I talk to 
LovingCup
about an idea for Graduation Activities? 
Petitions for Senior Class Fellow are due back at the Student Governr.1ent Office by Thursday, Feb. 21, at 5 pm. As to any suggestions you r.1ight have, we recommend that you get in touch wirh Jen·y Sar.,aniego at 232-3876. 
When is the Collegiate Jazz Festival scheduled? 
The festival is slated for April5,6, 7, and 8. Ken Lee is heading up 'he planning effort and would be the man to see if you had any other questions. 
nice place 

to begin your weekend 
Mass & Dinner 5pm Every Friday 
• ~ • I 4 I t • • • •a l .. a • • • • • ., .. • .._ ., • • • '"' • ., • '" '"''"' • 

Each morning the storm-tracking team,consistingof Morgan, Joseph Golden and Charles Vlcek, two NSSL meteorologists, and Dorothy Alexander, administrative assistant to the director of NSSL, would r.1eet with members of the Severe Storm Lab to determine whet·e the rough weather would strike. After targeting a region and obtaining a detailed forecast from the National Severe Storms Forecasting Center in Kansas City, the team drove to that area and positioned itself on the southeastern edge of the storm, the traditional spawning site for tomadoes.. 
As the team chased a storm, often 300 r.1iles in a day, it received updated weather information via radio-telephone from the NSSL base. Although it was a record iean year for tornadoes, the storm­rracking unit went out 18 times during the first spring and r.'onitored 14 storms, two of which produced sr.1all tornadoes. It was enough of a success to convince NOAA to renew the project for another year. 

THE PING PONG TOURNAMENT HAS RESUMED. 
All those who signed-up in November, 
see the Bulletin Board in the LaFortune 
Poolroom for details. 
I 
I 
~**********************************~ 
~ Grand Opening I ~ 
* * 
: The Play House ~ 
* ~ 525 N. Hill *~ 
*~ live entertainment Fri. & Sat. *~ i "Jesse Fisher and 9th St. Exit" ~ 
~*································~ 




~ 
I . . ' . ·' , ~ ; .~ 
t •. -Friday; Februa·ry ·1s, ·l974
10 the observer 
I 
·Apple'--proving the value of the freshman rule 

by Kathi Paterno 

Is it true blondes have more fun? Perhaps. Is it true they play great basketball? If the player is Bill Paterno, then the answer is "yes". 
Basketball has been a large part of Bill's life since grammar school where, he said, "we played more like football; the object of the game was to dive on top of the ball and hold on." 
Although the 6-4 freshman has come a long way since then, the sport still occupies just as much of his time. And back in his home town of Spring Lake, N.J. he receives full support. His father is still his best critic, his mother is busy clipping articles and two of his sisters are high scorers for their girls' basketball team. 
A two-time All State high school star, Paterno averaged 21 points per game and his shooting ability was a little over 50 per cent. In his junior year, after sorting through numerous letters from interested colleges, Bill narrowed the choice to Duke, South Carolina and Notre 
Rough weekend for fencers 
by John Vincent 

The Notre Dame fencing team, pleased after snapping the University of Detroit's three-year dor.1ination over them last Saturday, prepare for even stiffer competition this week. The Irish also defeated Chicago and Indiana in iast weekend's quadrangular r.'eet, raising their season record to 12-0. 
This Saturday the Irish return home to face Michigan State, Ohio State and Cleveland State in perhaps the r.10st crucial match of the year. The r.1eet will get un­derway at 9:30 in the ACC. 
"We have to have the same kind of performance we had against Detroit if we expect to defeat Ohio Stale and Cleveland State," says coach Mike DeCicco. "Both are doing well, as can be seen from ·their records." Ohio State is un­defeated while Cleveland has only 
•
British m1ners reject accord 
LONDON WPil -Two more 
attempts to end Britain's coal 
strike failed Thursday as the 
269,000 striking r.1iners spurned 
a new peace appeal by Prime 
Minister Edward Heath and 
Heath himself rejected a Labor 
Party plan to settle the pay 
dispute. 
The r.1iners sent more pickets to tighten their blockade of coal deliveries at vital generating plants, ports and steel mills and the Central Electricity Generating Board ordered a 6 per cent power cut. More reductions may follow, the board said. 
Heath Thursday night official­ly announced his rejection of the proposal by Labor Party leader Harold Wilson to sum­r.Jon a conference of three r.1ajor party chiefs to seek a way out of Britain's five day­old coal mine strike. 
"I am afraid he has not grasped the point," Heath said in a speech to an election campaign rally at Birmingham, and went on to vilify the Wilson plan with sarcastic comments. 
Heath had not really been expected to embrace the Wilson proposals since he had already rejected them when Wilson sent them to No. 10 Downing Street by mail last week. 
Wilson was told that Heath had ridiculed his plan before Dame. And why Notre Dame·? 
"There were basically three reasons," he explained. "First, Notre Dame plays one of the best basketball schedules in the country. Next, the coaching and recruiting were straightforward and honestand I admired that. And third, because of the academic standards and the benefits of a degree from Notre Dame." Both on the floor, where he is averaging 7-8 points and 3.4 rebounds per game, and off, he believes the school has lived up to his ex­pectations. 
Paterno, also, takes exception to the r.1any coaches who believe the NCAA rule _allowing freshmen to play varsity ball harmful. Bill and ND's other freshmen players feel they have proved themselves in their grades and in their per­formances on the court. 
It was a rough first semester, playing a hectic schedule and trying to study, Paterno admitted. 
"I did fairly well, but it was r.'ainly the usual freshman syn­drome that interfered; a little homesickness and a lot of ad-
one loss, that one coming at the hands of OSU. 
The Irish have had a victop· drought against the Buckeyes.­They have not beaten OSU since 1972, losing the last two meetings by the identical score of 14-13. 
Two Notre Dame fencers had outstanding weekends in Chicago. in sabre, freshman Sam Difiglio finished undefeated with seven victories, raising his season mark ,,., 21"3, while teamr.1ate Tom Coye re<:orded six victories without a setback, putting his record at 22-3. 
"Tor.1 was a very pleasant surprise for us and Sam, well he was just sensational," DeCicco adds. "If our leaders can perform up to their potential this weekend I have no fear that we will come out on top." 
After this Saturday's r.1eet the Irish will travel to Wisconsin to Peel Wisconsin, Illinois and Minnesota in a quadrangular bout Febraury 23. 
addressing a rally of his Labor His only comment: "Well, well, Party supporters at Norwich. well." 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE 
*TONIGHT* 

CINDY CORSARO THOMAS & WALTER 
FRANK 

9:30-1:30 $.40 submarine sandwiches beneath caf & music to eat them by! 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6~!1e occupancy $8~!ble ocCupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
Thru June 15th, 1974. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
justment. One thing Notre Dame has done is make me conscientious and I know my grades will im­prove." 
Another plus in this college, in addition to his teammates, "a great bunch of guys", is the Du Lac crowd and spirit. 
This, he commented, is the other half of the team which gives needed r.10mentum at the right time and necessary loyalty all the time. Compared to most other schools, he said, Notre Dame fans have more than the usual amount of class. 
Peeking a little into the future, the versatile Irish swing-man appeared ready for and optimistic about the upcoming NCAA tour­nament. He expressed a desire, undoubtedly shared by others, to play U.C.L.A. again--this time on a neutral court. 
Speaking with admiration for both coach Digger Phelps and his fellow team members, Paterno described the Irish cagers as a group of individuals who blend well together on the court and work hard as a team. 
And, yes, Bill mentioned one more thing. Many wonder about the origin of the nickname, "Ap­ple". But apparently this question will lie unsolved for the moment. Because no one, including Paterno himself,seems quite sure of the source. 
But uncertainty does not rule out speculation, and there is plenty of that where Paterno's nickname is concerned. Some trace the "Apple" tag back to Bill's close proximity to New York City-the biggest of all Apples. 
Others give the name a less complicated beginning. "Paterno," they say, sounds like "pa-turnover." And from "pa­turnover," there's only one logical place to go--to "Apple." 
And the Notre Dame basketball team has discovered more and r.10re this year that when long­range points are needed, quickly and critically, then there's no more logical place to go-than to "Ap­ple." 


Jim 
'63 
Chuck

\ 
~ 
'65 

1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
INVENTORY REDUCTION SALE I 
gift items, glasses & bar supplies -20% off! 
EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200 yds. on left 
10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORDER KEGS 
. 
'
...g
~I 

From SWEDEN great lamps for many uses in many colors 
$17.95 

Other styles $21.95 to $34.95. 20% SPECIAL DISCOUNT WITH THIS AD 
(Discount good thru February 18, 1974) 


Fanatics say:

Irish 1nake Ra1ns 19th victilll 
(Continued from page 12.) 
toward South Carolina on Satur­day. . 
But the Rarns and Coach Hall Wissel had different ideas and Notre Dar.1e proved all too cooperative after the halftime break. With just over 4 r.1inutes gone by and ND still up by 16 points, a hotly-disputed call on a ball knocked out of bounds ignited rhe fans as well as the Rams' Brown, whi1 booted the basketball into the stands in disgust. The field ~·oal atter.1pt was wide and Brown was rewarded with a technical foul which Gary Bn1kaw converted. But, as Digger Phelps well knows, a "T" is often all a team needs to !-'ain r.1or.,enturn. 
Fordhar·' had ND flustered and on the ropes for r.1ost of the second half but could get no closer rhan eight points despite 12 tur­nover·s and a 30 per cent shoaling display by the Irish. The Rams actually outshot Notre Dame for the gar.1e 33 field goals to 29 and their 47.5 per cent shooting topped r he I ish's 46 per cent. The Irish, one of nation's r.1ost accurate rear.1s from the field had been averaging over 53 per cent for the year. 
The gar.w was won at the foul iine, however, as the Irish con­verted 21 of 32 charity tosses and allowed the Rar.1s only five chances at the gift line. Shumate and Brokaw r.,anaged 16 and 13 points respectively, well below rheir team leading averages. Brown le<;lthe Rar.1s with 23 points while Freshr.1en Stan Fr·ankay and John O'Neill added 12 each. 
Dant ley, who fainted from dehydration and fatigue during the DePaul 12ar.1e two weeks ago, has been spectuacular since then, scor·ing 78 points in his past three outings, ,explains Phelps, who 
Gamecocks host ND five 
(Continued from page 12.) 
Coliseur., to 35 consecutive games. But the Gamecocks are well aware that the task facing them won't be an easy one. Even on Tobacco Road. 
"Things just seem to have worked out for this game," said Gamecock assistant Don Walsh, who has been piloting the USC-rear.1 during the illness which has recently sidelined McGuire, Carolina's veteran head coach. 
"It just seems to have worked out," Walsh repeated. "Both te!lms have played sir.1ilar schedules, both teams have had the opportumty to see each other play, and th~ players on both ~quads know each other. 
"Notre Dar.1e has scouted us," he continued, "and we've seen them play. So we know each other pretty well and our approach is that this is 12oing to be a players' game. I think it'll be close, but I'm not sure that it'll be indicative of which is the better team. 
"Even if we were to win handily down here, I'm still not sure that would be an accurate indication. You just can't go on one game." 
Walsh was right on both counts. One game may not be an accurate barometer of which is the better team, but this one will, above all else, be "a players' game." And both the Gamecocks and the Fighting Irish have 
the players to make it so. 
The Irish, as they have all season, will start Ray Martin or Dwight Clay, Goose Novak, Adrian Dantley, Gary Brokaw, and John Shumate­rhe tear.1's scoring (23.2) and rebounding (9.8) leader. 
The South Carolina coaching staff is also fairly well set on its starting five. Senior guard Brian Winters-the team's scoring leader at 19.1 ppg.-will Pan one of the backcourt posts, while sophomore Mike Dunleavy 06.5) will play the other. 
Playing along the baseline for McGuire and Walsh are a trio of t~ll, rough second-year r.,en. Six-six Mark Greiner (4.5) and 6-7 Bob Mathias 
(10.5) are newcor.1ers to the Gamecock starting line-up, but 6-8 Alex English is not. 
English, the third sophomrore in the USC front court, enjoyed a stellar fr·eshPan season, and has picked up in '74 where he left off in '73. English is averaging 18.1 points and 8.6 rebounds, and he, along with Dunleavy and Winters, give the Gamecocks a scoring punch that is hard to over­l'or.le on the road, r.1uch less in the Coliseum, where USC hasn't been beaten since Marquette eked out a 72-71 decision on January 9, 1972. 
"Sure,'" said Walsh, "playing the game in the Coliseum is going to help us. It's going to help us tremendously. But I've told our team several riPes that Notre Dame will come into this game with a very positive attitude. I saw them when they played at Indiana, and they didn't seem at all bothered by the c1·owd at Bloomington. 
"And yes," he continued, "I'd say that this Notre Dame team is better than the one we played at South Bend last year. They're stronger, and I'd attribute that mainly to Dantley. But Brokaw and Shumate are a year older, ton, and of the guards that I've seen this year, I'd have to say that Bnrkaw and (South Carolina's Brian) Winters are the best." 
The Gar.1ecocks are respectful of Notre Dame's lofty national position, 
but they aren't awed. They're looking at the game, rather, as a 
challenge-the same sort of challenge that Marquette (a one-point loser 
in Carolina Coliseum) presented earlier in the season. 
"Notre Dar.le represents no r.1nre of a challenge now," said Walsh, 
"than Mar·quette did when we played them. The fact that we're playing a 
~·nod basketball team is what presents the challenge. 
"And rhat's a good thing, I think. It's a great relationship that Notre 
Dar.1e and South Carolina have going now. We're naturals, as far as 
basketball is concerned." 
And so is tornorrow's ND-USC game. It's going to be a natural. On regional TV. Beginning at noon. At the end of Tobacco Road. 

HOURS: " 

MOH -lUES -ntU1t -Rl ' AN. 5:30 I'M
WED -SAT 9 AN. 12 NOON COMPL£Tf $PI!CI'ACLE
RoGERS SERVICE ALL f'I'E Dl!.'S PIESCRIPTION$ HONOIEtOptical e..I! 
2.89-7809
IOGI!l ATWEU • O'WNH 

I. ~ \ • ·• ~.. • ' . .
•• :. I. 
I ~ • • • ll ... • e .. e ... .. ... .. " II 10 ,. 

L_ 
dislikes the rule allowing freshmen ro play varsity sports but at­tributes Puch of his team's suc­cess to Dantley as well as Martin and Billy Paterno, both of whom added 7 points last night. 
Cosell donates to MS society 
Howard Cosell, the nationally­known sportscaster, and his wife, Er.Jmy, Tuesday rna de a personal contribution of $10,000 to the Multiple Sclerosis Society. 
The announcement was made by 
Ara Parseghian, head football coach at Notre Dame and the 1974 National Campaign Chairman of the society's fund-raising drive. Parseghian related that Mr. and Mrs. Cosell gave the money to the MS Society's Research and Development Fund, each dollar of which is earmarked for research. 
"I know " said Cosell "that MS is a great ~rippler of yo~ng adults that generally strikes between the ages of 20 and 40. We don't know the cause of it yet, or have a cure for it, but I understand that scientists are getting closer to an answer. I just hope that whatever I can do will help bring an early end to this serious disease." 
Cosell 's financial contribution is not his first association with the Multiple Sclerosis Society. He was recently "roasted" on a television program aired by ABC's "Wide World of Entertainment" that originated from a MS benefit dinner in Los Angeles. 
Parseghian commented, "I spend r.1y life working with beautiful young adults, the kids who play for me, but there are 
hundreds of thousands of other young people in this country who are struck down in the prime of life by Multiple Sclerosis. 
"These people need our help and the National Multiple Sclerosis Society is rnost grate ful for Howard and Emmy Cosell's generous contribution and support of a r.1ost worthwhile cause." 
Gopher season begins tonight 
(Continued from page 12.) 
Brownschidle remain the sme. Mark Kmnholm, with Don Smith behing him, will be in nets both evenings. 
It will be a homecoming of sorts fm· several Irish players from Minnesota, and for sure, they would like to impress the home folks. But the Irish hunters won't be impressive unless they bag two gophers, and not the furry-kind. 
Both games can be heard over WNDU 0490) radio starting at 8 
p.r.1. South Bend time. 
A VALENTINE'S DAY 
SPECIAL 
PLACE 
Carroll Hall Madeleva 
DATE: 
Saturday, February 17 
TIME: 
7 & 9 PM 
ADMISSION: 
' 
~ p ,. 

Do it, Irish 
It's not too late 


256-01 11 
Ca rd s Books Magazines 
Art Supplies 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

Lund Woood-Foam Core Skies with step-on bindings. 14 years old. $40. Call Paul 233-3945. 
'63 Plymouth: Power, new tires, good condition. Best offer. 8132. 
PERSONALS 

Jenny, thanks for the valentine. Come over and see me some time. Ollie. 
Joe Moskowicz, contact Roaer Varela C.O. 7833. 
T.W. 243 Dillon-my regret is the same as yours. "Mushy" 
Magazine sales now in Stud. Govt. Office. All your favorites, at cost. 
Bunny -Velntine's day is the excuse, but you're the reason . every day of the your. Love you · Bear. 
Froher Geburtstag, Maureen. From the third floor Stanford Studs. 
Results from the Tuesday night snowfight: Alumni 1 . Dillon 0 (from the boys of Shit Alley) 
BRIGHT EYES: I can't figure you out, but that's why 
I love  you.  Happy  Valen­ 
tine's  Day.  Tte  non-funny  
one.  

Bon anniversaie  a  Ia  belle  
mignonne.  Les  trois  
mousqueta ires.  

That French Baron better know how lucky he is. Happy Birthday, Griff. Nanook Archie. 
It's not Monday, so celebrate 
your birthday. Fat Albert. 
Kel, 
Glad to hear you were coming down. My weekends are lost without you. HoN'~ phoo-ohoo?
Love _you, 
-
I 
, 

"American Character Series" 
Nancy Cole presents 
Gertrude Stein 
Sunday, February 17th at 8:00 p.m. in the Little Theatr~ (SMC) 
·­

Admission is $ J.00 Dance and Drama Patrons 

-~ --­



----------~----------------~·-------------------------------------------------~ ~--------~-----------------------------------------­
the observer 

Dantley. hot first half prove too much for Rams 
by John Higgins 9000 odd fans who turned out to see 
the nation's third-ranked Irish 

Digger Phelps considers the witnessed the expected mismatch freshman eligibility rule an un­in the first half as No{re Dame necessary evil, but in Adrian played Knicks-style defense and Dantley the Irish coach may have scorched the nets at a 61 per cent the best of all possible evils. The clip to lead by a comfortable 46-31 burly first-year forward from r:1argin at the intermission. Washington, D.C. enjoyed his But if the Irish reminded the second consecutive 27-point game, New York fans of the NBA champsPathcing his career high, and in the first stanza, the second proved to be the one consistent pel'iod was r:10re a la Philadelphia perfonner in an o{herwise erratic 76'ers, 1973 edition. Managing only Notre Darne effmilast night as the nine field goals in the entire second Irish held off a scrappy Fordham half, the Irish had to sustain an squad 79-69 at Madison Square ernotional and determined Ram Garden. corneback which proved too little 
The disappointing crowd of some too late. It was, however, by no 
Gamecocks W"ait on Tobacco Road 
byVicDorr Sports Editor 
Tobacco Road, basketball scribes from the East and South call it. 
lt 's a nasty, rugged, taxing trail which begins "far" to the North in College Park, Md., and then winds its way slowly and painfully South­wa,·d. 
It touches once in Virginia and then four times in North Carolina. Then, precisely in the middle of the Palmetto State-South Carolina-it ends. And tomorrow at noon, in front of a regional TV audience, that's just where coach Digger Phelps and his third-ranked Fighting Irish will be playing: in the Carolina Coliseum; against USC's powerful Gamecocks; at the end of Tobacco Road. 
The stop-off in Columbia is one which has humbled more than a few visiting teams in recent years, and it's one which will offer NO's red-hot Irish-who are 18-1 and closing in on an NCAA tourney bid-as stiff a road test as they've faced all season. 
Ranked 14th nationally and owning a 17-3 seasonal mark, coach Frank McGuire's club will enter tomorrow's contest with a pair of goals in mind. They'll be attempting to avenge last year's 73-69 defeat in South Bend, and they'll be attempting to extend their unbeaten string in the Carolina 
(Continued on page 11.) 

.... 
.. 
r:1eans a cakewalk, and what looked like a po{ential St. Valen­tine's Day rnassacre for Fordham turned into a veritable dogfight to the end. 
The Rams took the opening lead on a free throw by leading scorer Darryl Brown but it proved to be , Fordham's last advantage of the evening, as Gary Novak put the Il"ish ahead to stay on a driving layup with a minute gone. John · Shumate and the Rams' talented freshman John O'Neill then traded i short. jumpers before No{re Dame rattled off six straight points, four by Dantley who was controlling both backboards over the smaller Fm·dham frontline. 
With both teams pressing and displaying run-and-gun offenses, the Irish led 16-9 with 12 minutes to play when Dwight Clay, the No{re Darne assist leader and floor ~eneral, reinjured a bad ankle and was forced to leave the game, seeing only spot action the rest of , the night. 
Ray Martin, playing before a large gathering of hometown friedns as were six o{hers on the Irish squad who hail from the New Ym·k area, replaced Clay and helped Notre Dame to a 17 point splurge over the next four minutes, as the visitors worked the ball inside repeatedly to Dantley and Shumate and forced numerous Fordham turnovers. 
SPooth Gary Brokaw gave Notre Dar:1e its biggerst lead of the evening 41-23 with 2:30 left on a picture-perfect jumper off an inbounds pass, and it appeared the Irish had their 19th win safely insured and could turn their sights 
(Continued on page 11.) 

It's hunting season for Lefty 
by John Fineran 
Hunting season opens tonight for 
the Notre Dame hockey team. Not 
only are the Irish icers looking for 
a two-game sweep, but their op­
ponent, the Gophers of Minnesota, 
will be the first of three con­
secutive weekends against the 
WCHA's "animals" 
A rwo-game set with Michigan's Wolverines closes out the Irish home schedule next weekend, and the season ends one weekend later in Wisconsin against the Badgers. But, right now, Notre Dame must concern itself with a bunch of fun·y, burrowing "animals" who have dug their way to third in the cunent league rankings. 
And the Irish know that they won't be seeing their shadows on the ice, but rather those of this pesky, little Minnesota sextet of Herb Brooks. Brooks, in his second year in Minneapolis, has worked miracles, transforming the Gophers from last-placers in 1971­72 to contenders this season. 
Minnesota 14-l0-4 overall and ll-7­4 in the WCHA can be simply described as a small, quick­skating team with excellent goaltending and better-than­average defense. And if the situation warrants it, as it did last weekend in Badgerland, these Gophers are willing to scoot right into their holes. Minnesota and Wisconsin tied twice, giving the Gophers an unconventional split of the series. 
Br·ad Shelstad, Minnesota's senior netminder, has the best­goals-against(3.3 in 19 games) of regular goalies in the WCHA. He and the Gopher defense, led by Les Auge (4 goals and 20 assists), have allowed on 106 goals all season in 28 games (as compared to ND's 124 in 28.) 

Upfront, center Mike Polich has 
scored 10 goals and 23 points, and a 
trio of Gophers, center John Harris 
and wings Buzz Schneider and 
John Matschke, have tallied 26 
points each. Freshman John 
Sheridan has been one of the 
outstanding newcomers in the 
league, despite his totals of ll goals 
and nine assists for 20 points. 
"Minnesota is a very aggressive 
team," Irish coach Lefy Smith 
said. "They'll do a lot of 
forechecking. 

"We can't afford to lose our poise 
as we did in the second period 
against Michigan State. We need 
to play three good periods of 
hockey, not just two." 
Notre Dame played five good 
periods of hockey last weekend, 
using three of them Friday night to 
beat the Spartans, 8-3, but losing 4­
2 Saturday, three of the State goals 
St. Louis Zips return to ND 
The St. Louis Zips, a nationally­known basketball team composed of slick-passing and clever­dribbling youngsters, will make its second appearance of the season at Notre Dame on Monday evening at 7 p.m. 
The Zips will perform as part of a preliminary game, which will take place before the regularly­scheduled Notre Dame -Western Michigan contest gets underway at 8 p.m. 
Squaring off against the squad from St. Louis will be a team made up of Notre Dame football players. Mike and Willie Townsend, Steve Sy Ivester, Cliff Brown, Pete Demmerle, and Luther Bradley are among the Irish gridders who will oppose the Zips. 
Moving without the ball. Adrian Dantley, here muscling his way down the lane against Xavier, awaits an assist from a teammate. Dantley was on the receiving end of plenty of assists liast night, and scored 27 points as Notre Dame defeated Fordham for the first time since 1969. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
coming in the second period. It has been that type of season for the Irish. 
Sr:1ith is going to try to stop this 
inconsistency ihis weekend with a 
few changes, but some of them at 
right wing, where sophomore Tim 
Byers will replace freshman Alex 
Pirus. 

Pirus at the r.10ment is recuperating in St. Joseph's Hospital after knee surgery on Wednesday. He is, of course, lost for the season, and it is a shame that Alex won't be in Minnesota. He has been coming on strong lately, having eight goals and 24 points. 
"I'm really sorry this had to happen now," Alex said. "I didn't want to miss the playoffs." 
Notre Dame's playoff hopes still aren't set, though. The Irish are tied for seventh (or eighth or ninth) with Colorado College and Michigan with a 9-12-1 record. To stop the skid, Smith has moved freshman Brian Walsh to center between Ian Williams and Eddie Bumbacco, NO's two current 2tl0­point scorers. 
Pat Conroy will again center Ray DeLorenzi and Larry Israelson. Because of Pirus' in­jury and Walsh's movement, Ric Schafer will center Byers and Mike Tardani. Schafer, incidentally is suffering an injury of his own. He will have to don a facemask for the duration because of a cracked cheekbone. Pat Novitzki and Jim Augustine will be the alternates. 
On defense, Les Larson returns after missing the second State contest because of a bruised foot. He will pair with Roger Bourque. The other duos of Steve Curry-Bill Nyrop and Paul Clarke-Jack 
(Continued on page 11.) 








