On The Inside 
Faith sustains Mrs. Kronholm •••page 3 
New director for Art Gallery 
... page 7 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 99 Wednesday, March 27, 1974 

James A. Farley, an internationally prominent Catholic layman for more than 40 years, has been chosen to receive the 1974 Laetare Medal, Notre Dame's highest honor. · 
The choice of Farley, Postmaster General under Roosevelt and currently honorary chairman of the Coca-Cola Export Corporation, to receive the award, given annually since 1883 to outstanding American Catholics, was announced Saturday <March 23) on campus by Fr. Hesburgb. 
"In a day when the craft of politics is held in low esteem by the general public," Fr. Hesburgh said, "It is well for us to honor a man who practiced it with both integrity and affability." 
Although Farley never held a high elective political office, he became a major influence in the Democratic Party in the 1930's. Born the son of an Irish brick manufacturer in Grassy Point, N.Y., in 1888, Farley completed high school and worked 15 years from Universal Gypsum Company as a bookkeeper, company correspondent and salesman. His first foray into politics was his election as town clerk from Stony Point, N.Y., in 1911, and he moved up through various state Democratic party positions to state party chairman in 1930, the year Franklin Delano Roosevelt was re-elected governor of New York state by the unprecedented plurality of 725,000 votes. 
Farley became Roosevelt's field man as 
the governor looked toward the 1932 
Democratic presidential nomination, and 
no one was more effective at the 
traditional approach to party workers-the 
personal letter, the long distance call, and 
the handshake. 'lbe indefatigable Farley 
was Roosevelt's floor· leader at the 1932 
Democratic convention which nominated 
the New York governor for the presidency. 
After Roosevelt's election, Farley became 
Postmaster General in his cabinet and also 
national chairman of the Democratic 
party. He remained a mentor of the 
president and a familiar figure at the 
White House, and in August, 1936, took a 
leave without pary from his cabinet post to 
run Roosevelt's second campaign, which 
resulted in a landslide victory. 

It was after this victory that Farley 
revealed himseH as good a customer of the 
mails as an administrp•l\r of them. He sat 
down and dictated mor~ 36,000 per­
sonal letters to Democratic workers from 
aU over the country, exhausting six 
secretaries in the process.. Even today at 
85, his trademark green signature goes at 
the bottom of an average of 120 letters a 
day, and on his birthdays some 6,000 cards 
and letters are received-and each is 
personally acknowledged. 

Two other traits biographers never fail 
to mention are Farley's pleasant nature 
and his phenomenal memory for names 
and faces. The former quality earned him 
the nicknames "'Gentleman Jim" and "Genial Jim," and the latter is surrounded by legends about those whom Farley met on occasions separated by several years and still recognized witth an effortless first-name handshake. 
Farley split with Roosevelt over the third-term issue, resigned as Postmaster General in August, 1940, and campaigned only perfunctorily for Roosevelt's third term. Just before the Democratic con­vention in 1944, he resigned as national party chairman to dramatize his op­position to a fourth term. 
Several biographers have commented on Farley's honesty while in office. Although his Postmaster General's salary was $15,000 he left the cabinet in debt because he insisted that a building materials firm he had started in 1929, and in which he still had a business interest, should not solicit orders where his in­fluence would count and should reject aU public bu~iness offered. 
The year he left the cabinet was also the year that Farley was elected chairman of The Coca-Cola Export Corporation, and he has worked as hard as ever as the number one salesman for the soft drink company. Only after a heart attack in 1972 did he cut back from a schedule which in 1971 in­cluded 131 luncheons and 105 banquets, most of them sponsored by groups in­terested in foreign trade. In May of last year he was appointed honorary chairman of The Coca-Cola Export Corporation. He continues to arrive at his New York City Coca-Colaofficeat9:15a.m. each morning and walks the three blocks back to his Waldorf-Astoria apartment between 4 and 4:30p.m. in order to rest before dinner. A widower since the death of his wife, Elizabeth, in 1955, Farley has two married daughters and a son as well as 10 grand­children. His biography includes a long catalogue of civic, religious and fraternal activities and honors, including some two dozen honorary degrees from colleges and universities. 
While Farley has had reservations about some recent directions of his party, he has retained the honorific title of "Mr. Democrat." Last year, fellow Democrats honored him as part of the last hurrah to New York City's National Democratic Club building at 233 Madison Ave., which the party was leaving after almost a baH century. A reporter who was present wrote, "It was a great night for Jim Farley. The honor bestowed on him was reserved in the past for Democratic presidents such as FDR, Truman and Johnson." 
Farley joins a list of Laetare Medal 
winners which includes President John F. 
Kennedy (1961), Clare Boothe Luce (1957), 
Sargent Shriver (1968), Supreme Court 
Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. (1969), and 
Dorothy Day (1972). The medal is nor­
mally presented at Notre Dame com­
mencement exercises, scheduled this year 
for May 19. 

New HPC chairman· ·to replaceMcLaughlin 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents Council will elect a new chairman next Tuesday to replace Pat McLaughlin, who will be taking office as Student Body President on April 1. 
Any former or current hall president is eligible to hold the position of chairman. Both the nomination of candidates and the election will take place the the council's meeting next week udhe LaFortune Fiesta Lounge. 
Student Union Concert Director 
Rich Donovan spoke at last night's 
HPC meeting, explaining the 
problems involved in scheduling 
"big-name" performers. He 
described four typesof groups that 
pose particular problems. 
"First," he said, "there are 
those groups who are out of our 
price range because the ACC 
simply does not accomodate an 
audience large enough to provide 
the revenue they demand. There 
are also those groups who are very 
popular but are not currently on 
tour. 
"Then," he continued, "there 
are those groups that are both in 
our price range and on tour, but 
whose available dates do not 
correspond with those of the ACC. 
Finally, there are good groups who 
are in our price range, on tour, and 
available when the ACC is open, 
but are not well known enough to 
attract a large audience." 
The New Riders of the Purple 
Sage, according to Donovan, fell 
into this last catagory. Con­
sequently, the Student Union lost 
money on their concert, which was 
scheduled last semester. 
Donovan told the ball presidents 
that he was trying to line up one 
more concert this year after the 
Beach Boys, who will peform on 
April 20 in conjunction with An 
Tosta. He is attempting to fmd a 
group avaialble for May 2, which is 
an open date at the ACC. 
HPC Executive Coordinator 
IRIIRIIIIII II.JIIIIIIIIMRIIIIIIIIII II 
WallyGasior asked the presidents to encourage their halls to build entries for the An Tostal chariot race. "This has always been a traditional event for the festivities," he said, "and we would like all the halls to par­ticipate this year." Gasior also urged the halls to start collecting cans for the annual can sticking contest. 
The An Tostal Iron-Man Basketball Tournament will begin the week before Easter break, according to Gasior. Entries will be limited to 150 teams. Anyone interested should contact Vince Meconi at 3476. 
The second annual An Tostal decathlon, Gasior said, will be dleld on an individual basis rather than a hall-team basis as it was last year. 
Gasior cleared up some con­fusion over the package deal being · offered for the Beach Boys Concert and Irish Wake scheduled for April 
20. Two hundred-fifty tickets for the Wake alone will go on sale next week. Each ticket will cost $4 and admit one couple. Only couples will be allowed to attend the Wake, which will be held in Stepan Center. 
Two hundred package tickets for the Irish Wake will go on sale this Friday at the Student Union Office for $2 per couple plus the price of two concert tickets. The ACC and theStudentUnion will begin selling concert tickets alone today Those students wishing to purchase concert tickets before Friday, yet still take advantage of the package deal, may do so by bringing their concert tickets on Friday to the Student Union Office, where they will be stamped for admittance to the Wake for $2. 
Five new hall presidents were mtroduced at last night's HPC meeting: Elton Johnson of Dillon, Tom Hogan of Cavanaugh, Mark Nishan of Alumni, Frank McGuire of Flanner and Herry Hayden of Stanford. 
,. 


~~­
Wedn.esday, March 27, 1974
the observer 


warld 
briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-The metropolitan editor of the Washington Star-News chased the car of three robbery suspects at high speeds down Connecticut Avenue in central Washington early today, then flagged down policemen who caught the suspects. 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-President Nixon Wednesday will honor a Memphis, Tenn., television cameraman who helped capture two suspected bank robbers last week by ramming their getaway car with his own. 
an campus taday 
12:15 p.m.--seminar, "in vitro studies on transfer factor" by dr. peter baram, ada. spon. by microblo. dept. 102 lobund laboratory 
3:30 p.m.--colloquium, "the thermal dynamics of the tornado producing thunderstorm" by dr. bruce morgan, civil eng. dept. spon: by dept. of aerospace & mech. eng. 303 eng. bldg. 
4:30 p.m.--lecture, current research In biological oceanography" by dr. rezneat darnell dept. of oceanography and blo, texas a & m, spon. by bio. dept. Coffee galvin aud. 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club 204 eng. bldg. 
7 p.m.--film, "cry the beloved country" spon. by black studies program eng. aud. free 
7 p.m.--meeting, flying irish flying club 119 o'shag 
7 p.m.--mecha elections basement of Ia fortune 
8 p.m.--lecture "from history to humanity, part 1" by prof. eric voegelln, spon. by dept. of gov't. & International studies ar­
chitecture aud.  
8:15 p.m.--concert dennis bamber, saxophone, piano. spon. by music dept. liveary aud. free  william cerny,  
8:30 p.m.--drama, "the homecoming" by pinter.  washington hall  




ND Jazz Band stages concert this Friday 

The Notre Dame Jazz Band will present its annual concert, "Directions in Jazz" on Friday at 
8:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
The program will feature both the big band and a small group. Under the direction of the Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C., the NDJB will perform big band jazz ranging from King Oliver's Jacass Blues which was first recorded in 1926 to Archie Shepp's Hambone with a liberal sprinkling of Count Basie arrangements and student compositions. 
Featured as guest artist in this year's "Directions" concert will be South Bend tenor saxophonist Curtis Johnson. Johnson will solo with the NDJB. Recognized as one of the leading jazz musicians in this area, he played formerly with the Louis Jordan Band. 
A six man combo, "Erg's Finger Circus," will play original com­
( continued on page 7) 
The Observer Is publiShed dally during the college semester ex.:ept vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscription~ may be purchased for S8 per semester !S14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, lnd 
46556. • 
NOW RENTING c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:M + SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM u APARTMENTS 
s 
+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 



v 
+ 
REFRIGERATOR 

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT

+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM




I 
E 
CAMPUS! 
"APARTMENTS WITH
w 


THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south ben · 

Ticket sale on Friday 
Tom Kruczek Staff Reporter 
"Ticket packages for the Beach Boys concert and the Irish Wake will go on sale Friday at the Student Union ticket office at 1 p.m.," said Wally Gasior, chair­man of the AnTostal celebration. There is a limited number of packages available and after they are gone, no more will be sold." The number of package-deals available is 200. 
Gasior also reminded students that the wake is a couples only affair, "because this has been a tradition at Notre Dame over the past years.""The package will cost $2 per couple plus whatever the person wants to spend n Beach Boy tickets. If you have )ready bought Beach Boy tickets, then presenting them at the ticket office with $2 will get you into the Wake," continued Gasior. "Also anyone buying tickets for the Wake must present an I.D. 
"Tickets for the Irish Wake only 
will tentatively go on sale April 3-5. 
Price on these tickets will b$4 per 
couple, and they will go on sale in 
the dining halls during the dinner 
hours. Also there will be no ticket 
sale at the door for the Wake," 
Gasior remarked. 
"We realize with the party 
starting at 10 p.m.(and lasting 
until 1 a.m.lthere will be some 
overlap with the concert. Howevr 
people can come over after the 
concert" he said."This will be a 
different sort of party, but we are 
asking for the cooperation of the 
students to make this Irish Wake 
come off a success. We hop that 
this will start a new tradition of 
Irish Wakes at Notre Dame,' 
added Gasior. 
More details will be released 
concerning the Wake, including the 
name of another group to play
along with Windjammer. 

FLY ROUND TRIP JFK TO ATHENS WITH NOTRE DAME ALUMNI 
Complimentary meals and beverages aloft 
May 27 " June 3 $315 Includes U.S. Departure Tax--Call 283-7267 


THE OBSERVER 
NOW HIRING FOR THE POSITION OF BUSINESS MANAGER 
* APPLICANTS MUST BE ACCOUNTANCY MAJORS~* 
send resume to editor, box q, notre dame, before april 3. 
Journey into Blackness 


S d M 
un ay, arch 31 
7: 30-0' Laughlin Aud. Students $2.00 Adults $3.00 Tickets on sale at S.U. 
and at the door 

Black Arts Fest·•val 

--~~~~~ -~-----·~~--~~--:.~~---~----~~-::-~---.....::...:.~~__J 




PSSSTI 
Can we interest you in Spring? 
Stop in an get a preview of just how comfortable you can be this Spring and Summer ..• we're ready w!th the new sport shirts, knit shirts, feather-l1ght slacks, swimwear, etc., etc. Things are really looking up ... 
OPEN TOMORROW 'TIL 8 

t • ., ; : ., • " " ~ , , " • ~ ( ~ , t , , 
~---------------~---­
Faith sustains Mrs.· Kronholm dwing her kidnapping ordeal 
·by Chris O'Brien Staff Reporter 
"First of all, I want to say that this is not my story, but my mother's and family's," said Marc Kronholm, goalie for the Notre Dame hockey team, who went through a frightening ordeal this past vacation. His mother, Mrs. Eunice Kronholm, was kidnapped and held for three and one half days before being released for $200,000 ransom. 
Mrs. Kronholm was kidnapped early Friday morning, March 15, as she was on her way to the hairdressers. "I had just finished clearing the frost off the wind­shield when two men came from the back of me wearing ski masks 
.and carrying guns," Mrs. 
Kronholm told a local reporter. 
Mrs. Kronholm said that she was 
terrified but was immediately 
gagged, tied and forced into the 
back of her car. She was driven for 
many miles, all around the. 
countryside, until she did not know 
where she was. When they 
reached their destination she was 
taken to a room and forced to lie on 
the floor. 
At this time, Marc was down in 
Florida and had no idea of what 
was going on, although many 
people were trying to get in touch 
with him. When one of Marc's co­
travelers finally heard about the 
kidnapping, they drove quickly to 
Atlanta so Marc could fly home. "I 
got home just as the ransom was 
paid, so I only got in on all the 
eaiting." said Marc. 
The kidnappers, after abducting 
Mrs. Kronholm, phoned Mr. 
Kronholm, president of Drover 
State Bank, and told him to get 
together as much money as he 
could, and to bring it to a specific 
place. Mr. Kronholm did not hear the place as the kidnapper's voice driven about two hundred miles," became inaudible. 1 said Marc. The money was finally 
Marc said that by then "The FBI left in a field, where one of the had about every phone booth in the kidnappers picked it up. city tapped and had all their agents At this point, back in the room in the city working on the case." where she was being held, Mrs. The FBI, hoping to force the Kronholm decided that it was time kidnappers into making a move. to leave. She asked "Jerry," 
arrested one suspect Monday morning. To make sure that it was indeed Mrs. Kronholm who was kidnapped, Mr. Kroholm asked her a question· which he thought only she could answer. The question, "Wha~ did we do after the opera a week ago in Rome?" was an­swered correctly by Mrs. Kronholm when she replied, "We had pizza." 
Mrs. Kronholm had a great amount of strength and faith in God during this ordeal, said Marc. "It built up the family's confidence knowing how strong she was," said Marc. Mrs. Kronholm, who called the kidnappers "Bill" and "Jerrry," took them off guard with herjoking and talking. She listened t_o a Baptist preacher on the radio on Sunday, and told the kidnappers "God has given me the strength to do this. It is Sunday, and there are going to be thousands of people praying for me." To this com­ment, "Bill" replied, "They are praying for the wrong person." 
During her captivity, Mrs. Kronholm was given a limited amount of nourishment mostly bread and water but she never­theless comment~d, "They were good to give me those things." 
As for the ransom itself the kidnappers told Mr. Kronholm they wanted $200 000. An FBI agent doubled for 'Mr. Kronholm, and he was directed from the phone booth to phone both, from bar to bar and all over the city of St. Paul. '"The agent must have "Why don't you let me go now?" After much conversation, she picked up her coat and left. Mrs. Kronholm said that "Jerry" followed her for a distance, but then she lost sight of him. "A car came along and I decided that if the car didn't stop, Iwas going to jump in front of it. And it didn't stop, so I jumped in front of it," recalled Mrs. Kronholm. The 
driver gave her a ride to the nearest supermakret f~om where she phoned her family. Mr. Kron~olm stat.ed that he was so estabc and ~eheved, that he was una?le to dnve to the supermarket to pick Mrs. Kronholm up, so one of th~ F~I agents went. . 
While the agent -:vas gomg to get ~er ,the wh~e famil1 took turns talkmg to ,Eu~ice, trym~ to calm her down, Said Marc. We wer~ all so glad that she was safe, added Marc. 
As of yes~erday_, three men have been picked .up by .the FBI as suspects m the ki.dnappmg;case and all but approxtmately etghty dollars of the ransom money has been recovered. 
The Kronholm family believes that ~aith in God played a large role m the safe return of. Mrs. Kronholm. Marc wouldalso hke to thank all the peopl.e they heard from who expressed etther concern or thanksgiving that. ~verything came out well. In addttlon, Marc praises the ~ffi.ciency of the FBI. One of Marc s fmal comments was, "All the people were so helpful." 
Mural stolen from Ad building 
O'Brien Staff Reporter 
A picture was stolen from the main hallway of the Ad­ministration Building last weekend, according to Jay J. Kane, assistant director of in­formation services. The picture was a photo mural of the campus with dimensions of about 4' by 5'. 
"This mural," said Kane, "was only about one month old. It is 
•• 0 
because we need it to show visitors to the University how to get from one place to another on campus." Kane also added that these murals are "fairly ex­pensive" so the University is unable to acquire another one easily. 

Kane further commented, "The mural was screwed on the wall, so the people who took it went to some lengths to remove it." The mural was so large that Kane feels that it is just "temporarily housed" somewhere on campus and that any exposure to the incident 

NOW RENTING
c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:

M 
+ 
SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING 

+ 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOMu APARTMENTS 


s 
+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ DISHWASHER +RANGE 


v 
+ 
REFRIGERATOR 


+ GARBAGE DISPOSALI + TENNIS COURT 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM
E 
CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH
w 
THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company ~012 east edison road, south bend· 
-----~---~------~-----, 
.... ~ ..-....,_ '~'·';~···.'.·,·/ ~-., .... ~ ..
• . . . •. •. .. . . . ' .v . ~ ~ ~ -J .. ,·I i 
WtMh'u~sday, March ·27; 19'14'· ···:··the·aDs1ir\i-er· · · ··· ·.·· 3·.. I 

256-0111 

The Playhouse 
525 N. Hill 
Live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat. 
Happy Hour Mon-Fri 5-7 p.m. Drinks are 2 for 1 
Tonight & Tomorrow BOB SEGER & LOW RENT Advance Sales-Call Playhouse f 
r det il 



RARE EARTH 
and special guest Rory Gallagher 

Sunday March 31  7:30pm  
NOTRE DAME  Athletic and Convocation Center  
Ticket Prices:  

Tickets on sale: 
Bleachers ............. $3.50 
NOTRE DAME,A. C. C. Mon-Sat 9 to 5
Lower Arena ....... $4.50 
Robertson's South Bend & Con~ord Mall
Main Floor ..........$5.50 
~t. Joseph Bank · and branches
Loge ....................$5.50 
First Bank -Main office only
Platform ..............$5.50 
Elkhart Truth 
will speed the return of the mural. Kane added, "This does not necessarily mean that a student took it." 
"We are very anxious to get the picture back," Kane repeatedly said, "and there will be no questions asked on its return." 
Anyone with information about the picture should call the In­formation Services at 7367. 
WE NEED YOU TO MAKE IT WORKI 
Applications Now Being Accepted 
-=·· 

~~~l 
I 

For These Areas Of Interest: .. 
Social Administrative Services Special Proiects Academic Publicity Cultural Arts Campus Press 1 
I 



~m Apply at Student U!1ion Office 3rd Floor La Fortund1 
w ~ 
~!!~ Or Call 7757 Until Wednesday at 5 P.M. ~~ 
::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:-::.=:=:=:.::::.::::::=$:.::;:;:;:;:;:.:·:·:·!·!·!·:·:·:::....:~.;-:-:-:..:::.,.;-:~-:<·····~~····..·.-..·~~~..:..:..:..:····-~.:-················· ...........::~: 
.. ----.. ,.................. • • . . • • • • • .. ••• ••••••• .-.•.y.-..,--... .,._ ............ ················-·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·~~ 

4 


Farley Reply 
Editor: 

In reference to Ann Hawkin's 
and Mary Loberstein's letter of 
March 21st we would like to say 
that it was not written on behalf of 
Farley Hall. As coordinators of 
this dance we feel we are more 
aware of the circumf.tances and 
can better undustand Macheca's 
position. We think that we had 
sufficiently planned the party and 
we were as dispappointed as 
anvone else that it was cancelled. 
but we don't feel that petty name­
calling is necessary. We can un­
derstand the administration's 
hesitancy in approving a party for 
500 at Stepan two days before it 
was to be held, especially since this 
is a relatively nevi· idea. We intend 
to have the party at the end of April 
and we have allowed four weeks to 
work with Macheca so that we can 
have a party that is satisfactory to 
both sides. 

Mary Anne Kennedy 
Betsy Kall 
Karla Grazier 


Wizard to lizard 
Dear Editor: 

Now that U.C.L.A. has been defeated in the semi-finals of the 
N.C.A.A. tournament, it is to be hoped that North Carolina State will follow the example of Notre Dame and compose a letter of profuse apology to Coach Wooden. After all, the mighty Bruins are destined to win every game and every tournament. With their excellent coaching and moral superiority, they just cannot lose. But they did lose. And it is now encumbent upon the victorious Wolfpack to apologize to the "Wizard of Westwood" for having 
the effrontery to commit such a lese majesty as daring the defeat 
U.C.L.A. Likewise, this is especially necessary since the game was played in North Carolina before a highly partisan audience, an audience which was perhaps rude toward the visiting Uclans. All are agreed that a neutral site, like Paully Pavilion, would have been much better. 
In all seriousness, I would like to publicly congratulate the tenacity and determination of a great North Carolina State team. There is no need for apologies; U.C.L.A. got exactly what they deserved. Although the Bruins are a fine 
team, it is comprised of something less than admirable individuals. The profane antics of Tommy Curtis are well known, as is the supreme arrogance of Bill Walton. In his case it can truly be said that never has so much size and talent been conferred upon such a small and immature person. But what is not so well known is the chameleon-like character of Coach John Wooden. Hiding behind a sanctimonious veneer of Christian virtue, he is in reality a pon­tificating old poop who is vicious in his sideline abuse of opposing players. The "Lizard of Los Angeles" would more nearly approach the ideal of truth if he admitted that his success has been due more to extraordinarily talented individual players than to superior coaching and clean living. 
Sincerely, Dr. J. Michael Quill Department of History 

A P-C Response 
To whomever really cares, 

Try as I may, I have been unable to control, any longer, my rage over the absurd propaganda which seems to exit from the "Golden Dome." My latest indignation is the result of a recent article by that "master of fantasy," John Macheca. <Observer, March 25, 1974). 
To quote Mr. Macheca's latest pronouncement: "the one in­dispensable ingredient in such situations (i.e., value con­frontations) is a caring concern for both the individual student and the University community." Quite frankly, that statement is almost as impalpable as the food in the dining halls. In recent times, we, students, have watched the ad­ministration railroad a new caiendar through the university bea:ucracy. This new calendar was vigorously opposed by the students, yet our protests received little attention or care. Also, we have watched as students in Sorin and Dillon halls have been harrassed by an administration whose lip service to "a caring concern" manifests itself as nothing more. And how about the wonderful, caring concern that my colleagues and I have experienced in the off-campus housing situation, That is not even to mention the lavish care and concern being shown to the overseas students in this matter. 
In all honesty, how can we be expected to believe such statements when so much evidence has shown them to be blatantly false? Perhaps the alumni and future prospects for matriculation will read such statements and feel a glow of pride and enthusiasm for the Notre Dame community. As for myself, I can feel nothing but a welling-up of the same nauseous feeling I get when I read of the Watergate scandal and its sub­sequent cover-up. Father Hesburgh has often pointed, with obvious pride, to the fact that no one from Notre Dame was in­volved in that schadal. However, Notr~.:Dame'sadministration seems to be involved in a cover-up of its own, which is no less scandalous than Watergate. The ad­ministration is attempting to cover-up the university's ever­widening gap between that which it preaches and that which it prac­tices. In many respects, we are only, nom·inally a Christian community. 
The most unfortunate thing about this whole cover-up is that the administration may wake up someday and find that the cancer, presently being covered-up, has reached the terminal stages. One day, Notre Dame will come face­to-face with reality. Then we will realize that the leadership which has shaped this university into one of the better adademic institutions of our time has failed us. Instead of being a prime example of Christian excellence, we will be a prime example of out-dated mediocrity. 
Yes, Mr. Macheca, a high priority will have to be given to greater communication and un­derstanding between your office and the students. 
Respectfully yours, 
.James S. Birsic 
('lass of '75 

the. observer 

Nite Editor: Rick Blower Ass't Nite Editor: Suzy Augustus Layout: Ed Sargrgent, Bill Brink Day Editor: Val Zurbiis Copy Editor: Greg Aiello Typists: TbModglln, Barb Haug, 
Howard  Halle,  John  Flanigan  
Compugraphics:  Bob  Steinmetz  
Nite  Controller:  W.S.N  
Pictures:  Albert  the  "Expert"  
Sports:  John  Fineran  

One man gone and another to go 
my old buddy you're moving much too slow 
--Jack Straw 

There was a heavy rain. St. Clair was dangerously slippery, so much so that he had to be even more careful. Down the hill, onto the Old River Road; he felt walled in by the narrow street and the wharehouses on either side. He quickly spotted the place, turned his car into theslopingparking lot,and with some difficulty made it into a space. He shut the car off and got out after having made doubly sure that the doors were locked. He wanted no one getting in. Properly buttoned, James Stearn, done up as casually as he could afford, strode to the front door of the Back Room -the place where Joey was playing. Joey didn't know that James was in town. All was to be a surprise to him. He hunched up the lapels of his coat to stay warm inside. 
On entering, James showed the kid two i.d.'s, paid his money, and climbed to the upper level where the dancing, the tight tables, and Joey were. The only light shone from a few poor spots -yellow, red, and an embarassing blue -all keeping the milling dancers in unfair figures and too tight blouses from being faceless. Some he recognized. 
He skirted the more popular area for a single chair and table nestled against the wall. Joey had not seen him yet; he was too busy smiling and moving with the wailing notes that rang from his guitar. This was his life. 
For, James, it was hard to imagine a better guitarist than Joey. But, even from those days -when they would jam in a garage and James would try to pull out some good licks with slow, bad fingers while Joey's playing sang right over him-even then he knew. Often he would try to be a guitarist. This never happended. Joey used to make some thin encouragements to him. This was of no use. While trying to equal, James knew that he could never be as Joey. Joey would kid him about his being one of the smart kids: getting A's in his English, but not smart enough to hit six strings right.Intellectuals. 
A wan smile and James thought more about those memories until the music stopped. The dancers retired. They were not longer needed. Their time on the floor under the lights was gone until the next song. James stood up, now visible out of his dark corner. He caught Joey's eye. 
"Don't say nothin." 

Stunned for a moment then a big guinea grin. "Oh my God." Joey hit on this as only Joey could. "Hey buddy what's happenin'? Where you been? How long you been in town?" 
"A week." "A week and I didn't know ? " "It's a surprise." They looked at each other and smiled. Jim lead. "You sound alright up there. You play the guitar like you know how 
to play it." "Stop it," and a pause. "Just what the hell you been doin' with 
yourself?" "Not a thing." "Workin for the old man?" Yea, you know. I'm helping him out." 
This, Jim knew was not supposed to be said. Joey used to scr~am at him for doing anything for his old man but not for doing anythmg for himself: for not hitting the bars, for taking it but not making it. And what could Jimmy do? He had to work. He had to go to sehool. He had to read and had to think. 
"Come on," Jim uttered, "sit down and talk. You got time?" 
"No. The second act starts in a couple of minutes." He was hurrying. "Hey!" You want some wine? Come on, I'm getting you some." 
Before James could answer, Joey had stepped through the crowd of flesh and after a long time withdrew holding a bottle. "Sit down. Drink. I'll talk to you later." And he left to return to his action. 
James yanked the cork, put the bottle to his lips and drank. Very soon he was immersed in >orne new sensations. The ill-clad fleshes thrust and swayed before him, so alluring, so enticing; drenched in the sad, blue spot lights and table laughter. Loud table laughter. And above it all, the tireless notes from Joey's guitar: from the performer a sweet music which enraptured the dancing ladies and their men. The words of each song rose and fell, forgotten after the final chord was hit. Then alive again: now thundering, now wafting, now hard now soft. Joey's sleep-eyed face riding high over all, commanding his music. and his nameless dancers. 
James was buried. He was held by the players. This was wrong. This was entirely wrong. These dancers, these puppets: why couldn't they see? James saw before him a drunken, cornered audience staged in frightening mixed moments of skin and light. 
He rose and turned his back and started. Behind him was the blind, singing guitarist playing his songs; each note, each chord was nuance, one step further separating two inseparable friends. On this stage, this night, for this moment nothing was ever quite just so right. 
---------~---~--­




Faded Meanings 
a 
by Jane Manning 
Jane Manning is a Junior Chemistry major ftomSpeltcer, Marylon& 
For all it's worth, We're Number One. In football; the sought.afh!r title was achieved In New Orleans. And In basketball, all looked towards Greensboro with anticipation; however, the prized position eluded team's efforts. Yet how many people think about number one attained by the athletic teams? And, If so, does it really hold any bearing on thier lives? 
The most obvious outcome of the top position is that it gives peqple things to do, things to talk about. How often does "the game" be the discussion in the dining halls? And how often would people spend time speculating over the next week's rating by AP and UPI? The games themselves provided a place where people at this institution could go and lose their inhibitions. The could could shout, scream, drink, cheer. They could socialize and, in short, forget about their studies for a brief period of time. Yet, wouldn't they do that even if UPI and AP saw fit to award the coveted status to another school? And what about the bowl game and the NCAA bids? They allowed students a place to travel to during thelr vacation periods. Yet wouldn't they have gone someplace else Instead? In other words, the Number One spot (Qr the striving to atttaln It) rallying point for students; however, l feel If there hadn't been · there would have been some otherfhlng to fill Its void. 
For me, being Number One. hils llttle meaning. jumps to conclusions. maybelshoulddarlfy that ~blt~>rnArlt member of a team sport. I have nof spent any _. the team members have. I thE! trlen~tal,,btlvcn 
or during the game which PlctYerS-JtiO. o:~~~~;~,~~j~~
desired goal of victory me~ani&ri!ior'i~-ti:lratltvv 
to me. And I have the same a'.:Htt\.!d4iftctW2trdsfl1,1fong ~ 
Number 1. The players did aiJ>f~kW\or•.,i·••••••­
and though we were there to _____ . , _, _ -~~~:~~~~~~
the feelings of victory, or def$at,rriost • the athletes, being number lltfuHHlment of practice. Yet it's actual meaning to me Is lost, ex;ce~if6~jy~Y§ii~ of pride that is experienced for a shorttlme. 
Being Number One also means special nights .· Nickle's, The Library, or wherever. Or lt mElii.1l1s Vl~ur'c f1rlehds relatives at home asking how the team is doing be1For;e~y~rti;l;~l(!l!)!f your studies. Or it means difficulty in scheduling r·ltl'\<~l"<,.v.lini;ii:, conflict with sports events. Or talking with the 
alumni about the old days 
In other words, that one different feelings in many di the nostalgic remembrance beers that surround the precisely in the same m no longer matters; but, the they are what count. ' 
Butch Ward is a Senior editor of the Observer. 
Fame has been known to companion; her most have fallen short of those who lure her to suffer the pains of her fleet 
Our quest started as a determination and dreams, between what could be and for so long. And it ended a after the dawn of 1974 as the country announced family that our quest 


lished, and our accomplishment had acknowledged. Notre Dame's football team had en­Fame, and she was smiling. 
That acknowledgement was perhaps the most important event to involve the Notre Dame family this year. Perhaps it was the most important event to occur involving Notre Dame in many years. For the 
amifications of that acknowledgement reached far into the entire educational rocess at Du Lac. 
Not only had we accomplished, but we had been acknowledged for that ac­complishment. 
Being number one involves more than victory on the football field. Such a distinction means more than the at­
us of the government became an obscenity; social interaction was becoming a bad joke; the job market and graduate school openings were daily becoming further examples of our failure to gain acknowledgement for what we had accomplished. 

And suddenly, Notre Dame was number one. 
Certainly that accomplishment was not a cure-ail for the ills that plague our work here. But it came at a time when we really needed proof that dreams were not pointless; It came at a time when we needed proof that would acquiesce to stare us in the face. It was becoming a tired plea that urged us to look deeply in order to see the g®d. 
And that acknowledgement has cer­tainly stared us directly In the face. More im It well have made an 


The Way It ~eels 
/; ~y Steve Euvino 
$tew Euvino is aSophomore student manag~rctnd an English major. 
Looking back at the football and 
basketbaU seasons. I am reminded of the 
old song, "What a Difference a Day 
Makes''. I think of it in terms of a year. 
Out of the rulns of a miserable 72-73 ·football season, when after a 40-6 shellacking in the Orange Bowl, many wondering what we were doing there · ftrst place, there arose a group of · young men prepared to realize itles and put it in writing on and the polls. After being by three teams the year before, ~ar··c:,,u-1"'''"' had something to prove, 
o Jrne·m~oe"tes and to the countless lribadtlmesandln 
NewYear's . of all as the 
btlfg!Qkt 
fKiii}h,ni't~r­

crutch to ctire our doubts? Is it a good thing to look at when we are losing? I do notthinkso. In my opinion we are Number One, regardless of what the pollsters said. We knew what kind of team we had, and the players were well aware of their own capabilities •• And that top ranking is not only reserved for sports, either. To me, Notre Dame is Number One, whether It's in athletics, academics, the arts, what have you. When the day comes that I have to look at a sheet of paper to tell me NotreDame's ranking, then just maybe it's time for me to leave. 
I also tettthat Notre Dame's results in the NCAA Tournament were over. shadovvedbythe question of whether or not Shu . come back next year. No · decides,whetherto stay or not really worried because .,,_..u_ ...__,.,.., Digger. What he means · ·•· _-· • is immeasurable. During Prll¢tl~Z/()ije cannot help but notiCe 
-····-~~'rllt~t~n~:lty radiating throughout 
l has worked hard In three y;gt~A!O 1~illd up the Irish basketball
\!~~-~1~:~ same respectability of that 
< program. It Is his own draws these great high m ..,....,"'' to come to Notre Dame. 
mh6n-+h•"' come here, he wants them to realiz.e full capabilities, whether on or off the court. He wants his players to reallz~ what it means to be first.team All· 
American. He is equally hard upon himself, for he is the Coach of the Year, and I prediCt that he will retain that title for many years to come here at Notre Dame. No matter what happens, we'll sti II have Digger. 
When someone asks me what it's like to beat Notre Dame, all I'll have to tell him is that "it's the way it feels to be Number 
" 

~~·····················~~~J~~~~~s capable of realizing that 
merely col· heels of a,national championship. But regardless, this team did things that the experts, those responsible for acknowledging our accomplishments, said that it could not do. 
Some dreams were realized, some were not. But perhaps the most significant aspect of this basketball team's season can be found in Notre Dame's reaction to our failure to capture a second national crown. 
The cynicism so often before present following a loss like the one in Tuscaloosa is missing. There are few "I knew it would happen's." There are a tremendous number of "wait til next year's." 
If that attitude could become more than a fleeting hope, more than the mere ap­prec•rttlon of athletic accomplishment, Notre Dame could well be headed towards constructing a harbor for dettermlned, fly dare to dream. 
there is still Indeed a 
enough to go all-out, 
to be selfless, mad enough 

hP.Ii~"liit;.ln a world of possibility, then 
will catch a glimpse of a life 

r~>> '•~i~k~•nw ledgement Is not so 
rlht withl1•~>1n from those who seek it. that accomplishments rare, that far more people of fame's smile than we now 
one at Notre Dame attempted to 
imprison the distinction of number one 
within the confines of the six stadiums In 
which it was won. And so it should be. 
Because of that team's accomplishments, 
and the involvement of the entire Notre 
Dame family, we have been acknowledged 
as number one. Thus, the lessons to be 
learned from that acknowledgement are 
for all of us to share. 
We all needed to be number one, for we 
all needed to believe. And so do so many 
others who right now see no reason why 
they should bellve. Let us struggle to 
preserve the reason we now hold and 
simultaneously work to conceive that 
same reason In all those so badly in need of ·self-belief. 
For that, Fame will certainly smile upon us all. 
·.... 

l ~ 
I 
I 
l I 
~ 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
I 
...'­
,\ .. ,• ,~ ..· ,..~. '.·,.·· ~ .· .· .· ·, ............:·.·
'.•'. 

the observer····· we«~iu!sdav~ McirC:it.27; 1974 · 

There was an article in the Observer last week which prompted my curiosity. Does any other school or business use the Notre Dame computers, or are they for our use only? Also, how much does it cost ND to rent the computers? 
We found out that our computers are used by other institutions--both schools and businesses. The companies are charged a fee for its use, however. The only school that has an actual hookup with our com­puter, tho, is IV Tech which uses regular telephone lines and teletype terminals. 
We also discovered that the University pays IBM about $53,000 monthly to IBM for rent of the computers. 
I was readying Art Ferranti's column recently and was astounded at 
the detail or it. How does he possibly get all this information? 
We talked to Art Ferranti and he says he has basically four sources: his own memory, books he owns, clippings from newspapers and magazines, and finally, a program sct.edule he gets from the networks and local stations. These listings contain the descriptions of any new movies or shows. 
I heard or a service whereby students or parents can order a cake ror 
another student. Who do we contact ror this? 
Call Mark 'Ullrich at 8645. He then orders the cake from the Daintr 
Maid Bakery and also delivers them to the student. · 

Kelsey lectures on identity and growth 
self," Kelsey said. He mentioned
by Ken Bradford 

the advisability of t taking the
Staff Reporter 

Strong Occupational Interest test and the Myers-Briggs Personality Rev. Morton T. Kelsey opened a Preference Tests, available fromCampus Ministry lecture series the Counseling Center.
Tuesday night with a lecture en­
titled "Identity and Growth-and In addition, Kelsey stressed thethe Notre Dame Student." 
importance of keeping a journal as Speaking to a capacity crowd in a written record of reflections.
the Galvin Life Sciences Center, Kelsey said, "The identity crisis is Kelsey discussed the effect and normal and crucial in the in­significance of the separation from dividual's development." the family in the search for in­
dividual identity. "Good parents,Kelsey, a Presbyterian minister, the best of parents, often trap their counselor and professor, detailed children worse than the badfour stages of individual parents," he said. "It almostdevelopment.. which psychologists seems as if a little built-in dif­have packed into the 15 to 25-year­ficulty in a family is a good .
old age group. The four stages are things."
the separation from the family, the finding of a place in a profession, Kelsey also noted that therethe accomplishment of sexual were two ways in which to be tiedidentity and intimacy, and the to a parent. "If you do everythingfinding of one's essential meaning the parent says and if you doin life. 
nothing the parent says, the center of reaction remains the same," heAccording to Kelsey, two basic 
said.
steps are instrumental in resolving 
identity crises. "First, you must find someone other than the parent The lack of meaningful rituals in 
with whom you can talk in­modern society is a major factor in timately," Kelsey stated. the identity crises in modern America, according to Kelsey. He Kelsey praised the Campus pointed to primitive initiation rites Ministry Office for its "marvelous and strong family traditions in and creative developments" and other societies as being conducive its "sensitivity to where the the to the development of the identity
students are." He advocated the of the individual. use and expansion of the Campus Ministry's resources as well as the The next lecture in the Campus 
resources of the Freshman Year Ministry series will be an April 3 Office. lecture on intimacy and sexualtiy "The second step is that you by Fr. Edward Malloy. A prayer 
must find out more about your-service is planned for April 8 
flrttfOIIt 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
Senior office 
petitions 


due today 
Senior Class President Jerry A. 
Samaniego announced yesterday 
that all petitions for Junior and 
Senior class office must be 
returned to the Student Govern­
ment office by 5:00p.m. today. 
Campaining will begin on 
Thursday and will continue until 
Tuesday, April2 at 11:00 p.m. 
The election will be on Wed­
nesday April 3. 
As a quick review of the major 
duties undertaken by each class, Samaniego offered the following outline. The Junior Class is primarily concerned with arrangements for Junior Parents Weekend. Anyother projects will be left up to the imagination of the Junior Class officers themselves. 
However the duties for the Senior Class officers consist of: 1) organizing a Senior trip, traditionally an away football game: 2> supervising the selection procedures for the Honorary Doctorate Award: 3) organization of the Senior Death March in the fall and Senior Week in the spring; 4 l handling the selection procedures for the Senior Calss Fellow: and 5 l offering assistance with all necessary arrangements for graduation. 
Samaniego emphasized that the elections will be on Wednesday April 3, 1974. He also stressed that anyone interested must get their petition, fill it out and return it to the Student Government office no later than Wednesday, March 'J:l, at 5:00p.m. 
,... 

. '•. -~, ~···, .~ ...., ....._.,;.._;::
·, ·~ 

Mike is Back at the Red Door 



TALENT NITE 
Thursday Nite 
$ J0-$5 prizes "We've had some real winners-remember the 
SMC Leg Wrestler?" 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 
1974 Memberships Available 
Presented by the 


Black Arts Festival 
Saturday, March 30 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
Tickets-$2.00-on sale at S. U. Ticket Office also available at the door 
-an experience in African Jazz-


udent:"J~IIIIIIIIE IIII~IIIIE 
----~--.. ~--------·-~-----------------­
-----~-~,-------~---------­
Wednesday, March 27, 1974 
the observer 
7 

), 7: t •• •• ', ', ;;,, ',I'. '. '''.f ·.. ' ...·. ,"',''
Porter succeeds Lauck 
New director for ND Art Gallery 
Dean A. Porter curator of the collection, which now numbers director would be active in the ' the Gallery, which recently Notre Dame Art Gallery, will more than 3!~ art. objects. . solicitation of new acquisitions for received national accreditation. 
become its director, effective July . After re<;etvmg his professiOnal 1 it was announced today by Fr. diploma m sculpture at In-Burtchaell. dianapolis' John Herron Art School 
Porter succeeds Fr. Anthony J. in 1937, Fr. Lauck received a Lauck, c.S.C., a member of the . bachel.or's degree from Notre Department of Art faculty since Dame m. 1942, e~tered Holy Cross 1950 former chairman of the College m Washmgton, D.C., and dep~rtment and director of the was ordained in 1946. . Gallery since 1962, who will T~~ yea~s later he received a become director emeritus. certificate m advanced sculpture 
Porter who was appointed from Corcoran School of Art in curator i~ 1966 received his un-Washington, D.C. He studied dergraduate degree from Harper Fr. Lauck becomes director under such m~sters ~s Carl Milles, College of the State University of emeritus. ~ Ivan Mestrov1c, Hemz Warnek~, New York and his master of arts exhibition of the works of sculptor Hugo Robus and Oronz10 degree frdm the State University Ivan Mestrovic. He has also held a Mald~relli before starting his o~n of New York at Binghamton, number of one-man shows of his teachmg career at Notre Dame m where he is completing work on own woodcuts. 195~. Between 1960 and 1967 he was his doctorate in art history. In Fr. Burtchaell praised both the chairman of the Department of addition to his administrative creative example Fr. Lauck, a Art. His sculptures over the years duties he has taught art history at noted sculptor, brought to art have been exhibited in and Notre' Dame and assembled education at Notre Dame and his received awards from numerous several exhibits including the sound adminstration and careful major art shows. "Age of Vasari" ~nd the uocoming cultivation of the Gallery's Fr. Burtchaell said the retiring 
Director of Housing guarantees Augusta as hall for experi:ment 
by John DeCoursey the wings in LeMans if the Augusta that the Augusta plan wouldn't 
Staff Reporter plan fell through. work in any wing in an hall, and if 
O'Neill commented on reaction the students couldn't live in 
"It was reaffirmed today that to the Augusta student's alternate Augusta, the experiment should be 
Augusta will be the hall used for plan. "I heard that some students dropped. 
the housing experiment," said were angry and were petitioning to "In addition to the meeting on 
Karen O'Neill, director of housing have the alternate plan dropped," Monday night there was an earlier 
at St. Mary's. "Sister Marie she said. "Therefore, I decided to meeting that afternoon with Dr. 
Pierre, vice-president for fiscal call for a meeting last Monday Mary Ellis Cannon, vice-president 
affairs assured that with the ex­night to answer their questions. for student affairs, to discuss the 
pected high enrollment the housing "At the meeting it became clear situation. It was attended by 
experiment would go through as that there were two main reasons represen~tives of those who op­
originally planned." for dissension," said O'Neill. posed the alternate plan. 
This announcement signaled the "The first complaint was that the "As a result of these meetings 
end of a controversy concerning Augusta students chose one of the and student's objections to the 
the Augusta housing experiment. best sections in LeMans without alternate plan," concluded O'Neill, 
The problem began when the even consulting the LeMans "residence in Augusta Hall was 
students in the Augusta program students: This complaint was put reconsidered and guaranteed." 
learned that they might not be able forth by one group who didn't Gail Pocus, a junior from Holy 
to live in August Hall, if all the object to letting the Augusta Cross, and one of the leaders 
beds on campus weren't used. The residents live elsewhere on against the alternate plan listed 
Augusta students considered campus. four arguments opposing it. 
several alternate plans. They "The second complaint was "The fourth floor library wing of 
finally decided to take over one of raised by another group which said LeMans, which the Augusta 
students chose, is one of the best 
places to live on campus," she 
said. "The students in LeMans




Jazzbandconcert free 
weren't consulted about the alternate plan. The kids in the Augusta program picked an (continued from page 2) alternate living area, but none of
The NDJB is in its second year at 
the others in next year's senior
positions by trombonist Nick Notre Dame. Fr. Wiskirchen 
class had a chance to decide where 
Talarico and pianist Neil Gillespie stated that the felt "the groups had 
the group would live.
in a modern style that mixes jazz made much progress especially in 
"Also the proposal was meant
and rock in group interaction. ensemble cohesion and in the areas 
for a totally separate area and if it 
Other members include Charles of improvisational experience." 
was in LeMans or any other hall
Rohrs on tenor sax, Mike 
Nickerson on bass, Bill Boris on Rounding out the 21 -piece big hostility might arise between the guitar and Ken Scarola on drums. band are Jo Ann Crock and Bill students in the experimental 
Soloists appearing with the big Zak on trumpet; John Reschke on program and the other hall band will include Jim Rosini, mellophonium; Ted Hawkins on residents. 
"But everything is all right now,
Charles Rohrs and Dexter Gourdin trombone; Harvey Humphrey on 
tuba; Mark Vuono and Jeff Arm­since the Augusta students were
on saxes; Kevin Walsh and Rick 
guaranteed their dorm," said
Stagl on trumpet; Nick Talarico, strong on sax; John Longo and 
Banas and Joe on Monty Kersten on drums. Pocus. The library wing is open."
Don Rickner 
trombone; Mike Nickerson and 
Friday's concert by the NDJB is 
Gerry Beckles on bass; Steve charge.

Gillespie on keyboards. 
,~ ND
w 
:r: 
RESERVATIONS
I­

284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty
SMC 

ND+SMC Staff THEATRE s po 
SEASON 1973-74 

THE HOMECOMING 
Harold Pinter's disturbing, bizarre comedy M.ar. 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 at 8:30pm Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
If you compare, you'll select ltna... If you don't compare, don't say we didn't warn you! 
JIM CAMPBELL 120 W. LaSalle Street Suite 1001 South Bend, Indiana 
233-8207 The IEtna College Plan ... 

LIFE & CASUALTY

Life Insurance for students A::tna Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
for sale NOTICES 

'68 Pontiac GTO , air­Graduation special: May 17­conditioning, power steering 24: Nassau Bahamas $200 . and brakes, rear defrost. Call Includes Departure, Notre 272-9198. Dame to airport, flight(open bar) and hotel. Call 288-6182. Pioneer 626 Receiver· in ex­cellent condition. Call Jim $65 to 95 per week-Part time. 
1487. Unlimited earning potential in addressing envelopes at home. Tandberg 90000X tape deck , Companies pay top money for 
$525; Bose 901 speakers with that "personal.. touch. For stands, $450; all practically further information regarding new. 272-8782. opportunities with these 
companies, send $2 to Phoenix Advent 201 Cassette Deck; 10 Advertising, PO Box 11707, months old, excellent con­Atlanta, Ga. 30305. dition, $225. Call 8436. Every Friday the Greyhound
Stereos for sale, receivers, goes fom the Circle to Chicagoturntables, tape decks, most at4:40 pm. Call Tom 272-1807. brands available 25per cent off. 
CaII 8782, 8436, 8437. Will the s.o.b. who took ND 
hockey jacket form Hinga•sJust in from Santa Fe, : party Sat. night please return Handmade Indian Turquoise to 825 ND ave. or call 234-4961. 
Jewelry. A wide selection of Bracelets, rings, earrings, Bike -A -Thon for Loganneckpiest, etc. All reasonably Cetnter. All interested in 
priced and of the highest helping organize campus drive quality. Drop in 10 Lyons or please come to 2 D LaFortune call 7833. Thurs. 7 p,. 
Factoru wired all sloid state dynaco stereo preamplifier WANTED (Pat -4) and amplifier (120) 
used 1'12 years. Replacement Need ride to DC or nearby for cost $4000 plus. , dicker at $225. Easter. Will shareS$ Call AndyPhone 7046. 1725. 
Koss headphones and extension TOW guys ? need 2 girls to $25. Call 1480. share houes in Sept. Call Mike 
. 
1100. 

I Dodge 67 2 door hardtop yellow 
., j
with balck vinyl top, automatic Want to sub let apt. for summer transmission, power steering Portage or Turtle Creek. Call with rear speakers, bucket 3816. 
j
seats, excellent condition. $895. 233-7111 or 272-2461 after Need ride to Ball State this Fri. 
5. Call Mark 3661. 
Brand new piping hot Texas PERSONALS burger, served on a giant bun. Accessories tomato, lettuce TO THE MANAGER OF THE and special zesty sauce. NORTH DINING HALL: A Priced at only 69 cents. Inquire CATSUP SHORTAGE?? at Mr. Quick on State Route 23. WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO 
FEED US NOW?? LOST AND FOUND 
Lost blue denim jacket near I have dirty thoughts only on 
Circle Tues. Call Dan 8288. the weekends. John Vannie 
open to the public at no admission
L'Heureux on guitar and Neil 
The American Character Serif ; 

Tom Nor 1 
as 1411TW41N AT BOMB 
Sunday,MarchJUt W ashingtonHall-~ AdniH>n-SLOO Dance &DramaP&bms Free 
--~~---~~~ -·-----------~--­
--------------~·-------~-­
r f 8 
the o.bserver. Wednesday, March 27, 1974 
, 
r 
i 
I 





Fencers do well at Grecl:t Lakes 
by Joe Wilkowski 

Coach Mike DiCicco today leads what he terms "one of our greatest teams ever" to the national championships at Case Western Reserve University. In the nationa I tourney, all teams who enter are limited to only three members, one participant in each of the three weapons. The team standings are computed on the basis of points accumulated by each fencer as he competes in his own weapons class. 
DeCicco points out, "We should finish in the top five this year, improving over the 11th position we got last year." In the nationals, the Irish will have to contend with such perennial powers as NYU, Pennsylvania, Navy, Columbia and Wayne State. 
The Irish trio is led by Tom Coye, a junior pre-med major from New York. He finished the year with a 40-10 record, only the seventh person in ND history to go over the 40 victory mark. He's been fencing for over eight years, if you don't count his stint in the Air Force, and he has started for the Irish every year since he's been here. He finished fourth at the Great Lakes in a field that included an Olym­
It's Foreman: tkos Norton 
CARACAS <UPI>-Heavyweight champion George Foreman, showing no effects whatsoever from a knee injury that sent him to a hospital earlier in the day,floored challenger Ken Norton three times in the second round last night and gained a technical knockout to regain his heavyweight cham­pionship. 

pian and an aU-American. Lakes tournament. He proved he It will be a tough fight for the Sam Difiglio, a freshman from could win the big ones this year Irish this year because of the 
Skokie, Ill., represents ND in the when he pulled out a clutch 5-1 inexperience in intercollegiate sabre event. He finished this year decision in a 13-13 contest against fencing, but DiCicco has high 
with a 43-7 record, only the third Wisconsin. hopes for his Irish trio. They have highest number of victories in ND proven under pressure what kind history. Over the stretch drive he The Irish compiled a 22-1 record of fencers they can be. As Coach was the best fencer on the team, this year, numbering among their Tim Taylor points out, "Although suffering only three losses in the victims Big Ten champion lllinois, we are a young tream, we make up last four weeks of the season. Ohio State, University of Detroit for our lack of experience with our 
and Eastern-power Baruch guts."
Although shaky in the preliminary College. Their 27-meet winningrounds of the Great Lakes, Jlle put it streak, second longest in ND 
all together in the finals, losing history, was snapped only byonly to All-American Steve Danosi national-contender Wayne State 

Sailors second at IU
enroute to a second place finish in University. In the Great Lakes the tourney. He is probably ND's tournament, held annually to best chance to cop All-America. determine Midwestern supremacy, This past weekend, the Notre
the Irish finished second only to
Freshman Ed Fellows, from Dame sailors travelled to Indiana
wsu. 
Oakland, N.J., rounds out the Irish University for the "Hoosier trio in epee. He's been fencing for Of this team, DiCicco has said, 
Classic" regatta. Eleven schools over 5 years, and includes a New "In September I dido't think we participated in the event, but from Jersey state title among his would do that well, but the kids the beginning, it was only two
honors. He finished 36-10 on the really wanted it, and they proved year, and took (ifth in the Great this year that they could do it all." schools fighting for first. ­

Faith pulls Mark Kronholm through 
by John Fineran 

Former NHL goalie Glenn Hall once described hockey as "an hour or so of hell." 
But for another goaltender• Notre Dame's Mark Kronbolm, this analogy is meaningless. For it was in real life, not inside the six­by-four cage he guards on the ice, that Mark Kronbolm really ex­perienced the perplexing nature ~r 
things for the flrSt time. His 
· kidnapped

oth E
m er umce was 
March 15 from the Kronholm suburban home near Minneapolis, and although Mark entered the drama much later than it started, fortunately for him and the rest of his family, Mrs. Kronholm escaped unhanned. 
Mark and the rest of the Irish hockey team had just concluded the current season on a disap­pointing note, losing a two-game, total-goal series against the Western Collegiate Hockey Association champions, Michigan Tech. And like most Notre Dame students, who were then preparing for Spring break, where to go and what to do were questions Mark and teammate Larry Israelson had to answer when they returned to campus on March 7. 
The answer came quickly. Mark, Larry and three hall friends, John McGuire, Paul Slaggert and Frank Guarneri, set out for sunny Florida the next day. 
As Mark tells it, the five young 
men lived day-to-day, not really 
planning what they would do 
during their vacation. March 15 
came and went just like any other 
day in Florida for them. It 
wouldn't be until St. Patrick's Day 
that Mark's own personal trauma 
would begin. 
"I didn't find out about the 
kidnapping until Sunday," Mark 
remembered. "Paul and Frank 
heard about it over the radio in St. ·Augustine. ..1. ediatel lled hom and 
unm y ca e,

the fli'St thing my brother asked me was, 'Man, don't you ever read the newspaper?!"' 
'lbe five then started out for Atlanta where Mark would catch a plane for home. Thanks to the help of many who had tried vainly to reach him, he caught a late plane for Minneapolis-st. Paul, reaching the Twin Cities later that night. 
"When I got there, a cousin met me at the airport and drove me home," Kronholm continued. "By this time, the ransom ($200,000) had been paid." 
All Mark and the rest of the Kronholms now could do was wait until word came from either Mrs. Kronholm or the kidnappers. The deadline for her release came and went at 10 a.m. Monday, the 18th. Still, there wasn't a word from either Mrs. Kronholm or the kidnappers. 
To beSt understand what went through the family's minds, you have to know the type of persons they are. And this clue, perhaps, can be best exhibited by Mark, himself. 
Mark has known pressures before, but most of them have come on the ice. He started Notre Dame's last 61 games, and more than not rescued the Irish from many a bad night. He was par­ticularly superb in the loss at Michigan Tech, making several key saves to keep Notre Dame within winning distance of the Huskies. 
But if his talent played an im­portant part in his goaltending, his faith-in himself and, most im­portantly, in his teammates­played an even more important role. For you see, Mark Kronholm is a deeply-religious person who hopes to use his degree in Theology as a springboard to the Baptist ministry. All this says something about this, as Coach Lefty Smith calls him, "outstanding young man." 
"We trusted God that everybody would have the strength to carry through," he reflected. "Everyone thought that faith in God played an important part in the strength that was needed. 
"Everyone in the family was there to hold each other together. We shared each other's tension, but we realized my mother had to hold up on her own. We didn't know what she was goin~ throUJdl. 
"Throughout the ordeal, or whatever you want to call it, she showed an amazing amount of strength. It gave us confidence to know she was a strong person. She really did feel her faith was very important to her. She told about being able to talk and joke with the kidnappers. It really must have taken them off-guard. 
"Mom was blindfolded throughout and tied for part of the time. They moved her from place to place. In the end, she was left with one kidnapper. She told him she was going to leave, and she got up and left. She walked in front of a car, got in, went to a super­market and called us." 
It is here that the drama ends. The FBlwent to the supermarket, picked up Mrs. Kronholm, and took her home to her family. 
"I think it was just amazing how people we had never heard from were so concerned about the kidnapping," Mark concluded. "We received letter and telegrams from them telling us they were praying, and afterwards, how happy for us they were. 
"When I was in Florida, friends tried to get a hold of me. When we were at home, they brought us food knowing we were too busy to cook. It was just amazing how helpful people were during all of this." 
Perhaps it was equally amazing that all of this faith stood out and succeeded when others with less · amounts would have despaired. For it was the faith of Mark Kronholm, his family and coun­tless other human beings which won a battle even bigger than those achieved on any ice surface. 
The Saint Mary's College-Notre Dame fencing team won first place in the women's division of the 8th Annual Great Lakes Fencing Tournament held recently at Wayne State University, Detroit. 
Kathy Valdiserri, South Bend, Indiana, finished first in individual competition, and was voted most outstanding woman fencer by the other participants in the tour­nament. Miss Valdiserri finished with a record of 21 wins and only 1 loss. Judi Offerle, Ft. Wayne, Indiana, took fourth place. 
The Great Lakes Tournament was established in 1966 to provide a meeting-ground for schools in the Midwest not affiliated with a conference. A women's division was added last year; thirteen schooJs participated in the women's competition this year. The Saint Mary's College team, now in its third year, faced such top-ranked schools as the University of Wisconsin, Wayne State University, Case-Western 
Reserve  University  and  Ohio  
State.  
Cathy  Schoendist,  St.  Louis,  

Missouri, is team captain. The fourth member of the winning team is Cindy Rebholz, Kankakee, Illinois. Also on the team, but not participants in the Detroit match are Sue Krakora, Lake Forest, Illinois and Ann Werner, Racine, Wisconsin,. The fencing team is coached by Richard Hosinski. 
Iowa edged the Irish sailors, 25­27. 
Sunday's racing had to be cancelled because of a snowstorm which began during . Saturday's races. After those first 14 races on Saturday, the Irish were two points behind the Iowa squad. Western Michigan finished a distant third with 66 points. 
The snowstorm dido't hinder the ND sailing capabilities, however. Buzz Reynolds received low skipper honors in the "A" division. Reynolds finished the day's competition with five firsts and two seconds for a total of nine points, four points better than his nearest competition. It was the second straight weekend that Reynolds has copped top honors in a regatta, winning the individual title in the Admiral Moore Regatta in New York. 
Al Constants, who competed in the "B" division at IU woo four races of seven. 
This weekend, the Irish sailors are on the road against both Ball State and Iowa. 





