On The Inside 
SMC meals 
2
improved · · · page 
0-C lunch plan •.. page 5 


serving the notre dame -sf. mary's community Wednesday, January 23, 1974 
Vol. VIII, No. 63 
HPC discusses student lottery 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents Council last night decided to invite Vice President of Student Affairs, Fr. James Flanigan, Director of Campus Housing, Fr. John Mulcahn, and Assistant to the Provost Sr. John Miriam Jones to attend its meeting next Tuesday to answer questions concerning the problem of forcing students off campus. 
After a short discussion of the matters involved in the controv.ersial issue, it was concluded that more information was needed from responsible sources. The Presidents also agreed that they needed time to discuss the recently proposed campus-wide lottery with their rectors and hall councils. 
Afew presidents voiced their personal disapproval of the computerized campus-wide lottery. Steve Decoursey of Cavanaugh argued that each of the halls should be allowed to handle the matter in its own way, because "the problem affects each hall differently." 
HPC Chairman Pat McLaughlin pointed out, however, that "most of the hall presidents last year did not want to be responsible for forcing students off campus and would have prefered to let the University do its own dirty work." 
Phil Byrne, president of Alumni, disapproved of the entire issue of forcing students off campus. "I believe that the HPC should take a strong stand to show the administration that the number of students who do not want to live off campus is much greater than they realize. A number of the people that they have in­terpreted as 'voluntary' movers, because they an­nounced their intentions early, actually did not want to leave at all. They did so only because of the pressure of being able to find enough good apartments once people were actually being forced off." 
"The administration," he continued, "must realize 
that the problem is serious and getting worse and that the solution is not simply to hope that a number of students will move voluntarily and that the rest will go quietly once they are forced." 

Bill McLean, director of Ombudsman, suggested that the HPC look into the procedures being used by the administration in admitting freshmen to the univer­sity. "It seems that in the last four or five years a greater percentage of those people who are notified of acceptance have followed through and decided to at­tend Notre Dame than in previous years. This may very well be a lasting trend and should be accounted fl"' by the Office of Admissions." 
In ·an attempt to establish a working coalition of student representatives, members of Student Government, the SLC. and the Academic Council also took part in last night's HPC meeting. Student Body Vice President Mike Geisinger s<Hd that this joint assembly was only the first of several that will be held periodically to facilitate the exchange of ideas and information between the various representative bodies on important issues. 
"We will all be better representatives," said Geisinger, "if we unite and work together on important r.1atters, so that we don't inadvertently work at odds with each other. Also, this way we won't have to argue about which group is most representative of the students, because if we work as one, together we will have to be the most representative group." 
The organization and guidelines for these joint sessions will be determined by the leaders of the four groups. A name for the coalition also is yet to be chosen. 
In other business before the HPC, Assistant Director of Campus Ministry Br. Joseph J. McTaggart and Jim Hoolihan, president of Stanford, requested that each of the halls establish a position of Director of Community Services to be filled by a student who would coordinate for his hall the flow of requests which the campus receives from various volunteer groups, such as CILA, Neighborhood Tutoring, Logan Center, Fr. Schlaver's office of volunteer services and Campus Ministry. 
"There is a need on campus," explained McTaggart, "for establishing some kind of network wherein community service functions could more readily find a base within the hall structure. At present thee are a multiplicity of opportunities available for volunteer service but little or no methodical and effective way of informing and keeping students aware of already exisiting opportunities and a new needs as they arise. The position of Director of Community Services within each hall could satisfy this need." 
The HPC approved McTaggart's suggestion, and 
each of the hall presidents will announce the name of 
his director at next week's meeting. 
Faculty discuss salary problems 
Kurt Heinz more professors receive the mere 5 expressed concern with salaries at working for the Univ-ersity", Jones Such action is now subject to 
faculty review, said Jones.
Staff Reporter per cent contribution from the Notre Dame not being competitive said. "That is simple academic Government Professor John
University. ·With other schools. The average malfeasance which can be dealt 
Roos, a member of Vasta's
The Faculty Senate spent nearly McLane described Notre Dame's Assistant Professor is paid $12,616, with under our present structure all of its meeting discussing im­retirement plan as "way below the average Associate Professor is and which everyone recognizes as committee, said that the Senate 
should adapt a general honor code, provement of the faculty those of our peer Universities." He paid $15,460, and the average full being wrong." 
even if it is that no more than theretirement benefits and the suggested that the University Professor receives $20,111, ac­Jones pointed out that a A.A.U.P. statement.
feasibility of a faculty honor code, contribute 8 per cent, straight line, cording to McLane. 
Professor can be fired or Discussion was halted at 9:30, aslast night. on all salaries It was suggested that the senate 
Senate chairman Norman Finance Professor Waldemar delegation also discuss the non­disciplined for such a violation. the meeting adjourned. Haaser quickly dispensed with Goulet presented an analysis to the competitive status of Notre Dame 
other items on the agenda, in order Senate, showing how the proposal faculty salaries when meeting with to devote more time to these two would benefit Professors. The plan the Administration. topics. The meeting, held at 7:30 would increase the annual benefits English Department Chairman 
last night at the Continuing for all faculty members who make Edward Vasta spoke at length to Education Center, lasted two hours less that $33,000 annually. Goulet the Senate on the work of his and was divided equally between noted that "there can't be more Committee on Honor. the two topics. than a handful at most who can Vasta viewed the faculty as the 
English Professor Paul McLane make more than that. most most learned members of the presented his study which urged The average professor at Notre community and saw the need for adaptation of a straight line Dame makes $15,200. For him the them to set a standard. He said retirement plan rather than the straight rate would increase his that faculty members as well as 
step rate plan the University now annual benefit by $356. The students, alumni, and ad­uses. maximum gain would go to those ministration should articulate a set In addition to Social Security making $13,200 who would receive of standards. 
benefits, of which the University an additional $396. "The faculty must assume and Faculty members each pay McLane emphasized that even at authority over itself", said Vasta. half of, faculty members have the a straight rate of 8 per cent Notre "We need to control discipline and 
Teachers Insurance Annuity Dame contribution would be well academic misconduct. The faculty Association and Ecollege below the national average. He needs to develop and articulate Retirement Equity Fund (TIAA­presented a list of the contributions itself to each other." CREF) retirement plans. Faculty made by over sixty other schools to Physics Professor Gerry Jones 
members contribute 5 per cent of back up his claim that Notre Dame felt that the American Association their salry to this fund. is way behind in this area. of University Professors had a 
Currently, the University also McLane said that it would take a good general honor code. "that is a constributes 5 per cent of the first 10 per cent straight level for Notre good general statement," he said. $13,200 of a faculty salry to the Dame to be in the upper 40 per cent "Ifyou try to be more specific than fund. They contribute 10 per cent of other institutions. that, you're going to get into a on amounts above $13.200. The Senate voted to recommend quagmire." 
$13,200 represents the Social adaptation of a 10 per cent straight "The usual examples of faculty Security base, which has gone up level and to send a delegation to misconduct are plagiarizing a every year. Thus, as the Social discuss it with the administration. student's paper or accepting Security base is raised, more and Several members of the Senate government money while still 


---~--~----------------------~~-----~--­

f 
• ' ' ~ 1
·' 
..... ···--..
' 
.. 
....~· ..· 
Wednesday, January 23, 1974
1. the observer 
r 
warld 
briefs 
Washington--Vice President Gerald B. Ford said Tuesday that President Nixon offered to give him information which proved that he possessed no previous knowledge of the Watergate break-in or the later cover-up attempts. Ford told a news conference that the offer was made during a long meeting he had with Nixon Monday, but that he had not yet got around ro reading the information. The vice president said: ''I spent time talking to the President about Watergate yesterday and I know from our conversation that the President had no prior knowledge of the Watergate break-in or had any part in the voerup. 
Washington--Presidential Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler, responding Tuesday to a fresh round of congressional demands that President Nixon resign rather than face impeachment, restated the Chief Executive's determination to finish his second term. He said the President will stay the course because "He knows he has not been involved in any wrongdoing" in the Watergate incident. During his rare appearance at the White House morning news briefing, Ziegler sidestepped most of the questions he was asked about the tapes, but he stressed that Nixon was ignorant of how the 18 %-minute gap occurred in a critically im­portant tape. He added that the President does not believe the damage was done deliberately. 
Washington--The Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics said Tuesday that consumer prices shot up 8.8 per cent last year, which means that the nation's inflation in 1973 was the severest since price controls were abolished after World War II. The rise in prices was greater than in the previous tw uears combined, when the administration's price controls were at their firmest. The government said that higher food prices accounted for half the hike and fuels another 10 per cent. 

7, 9, ll p.m.--film, the french connection, engineering aud., $1.00 
7:30 
p.m.--hockey, nd vs. bowling green, ace 

7:30 
p.m.--lecture, american scene series: "this beautiful living world," by dr. george bick, carroll hall 


8:15 p.m.--concert, morris taylor and family, library 
aud., $1.00 


Gulf Oil 

to purchase circus shows 
Pittsburgh <UPI>--Gulf Oil Co~poration said Tuesday that one of Its subsidiaries, Venture Out in America, Inc., had tentatively agreed to purchase Ringling Brothers, Barnum and Bailey Combined Shows, Inc. from Mattei, Inc. for an undisclosed price. 
"Completion of the transaction is subject to several conditions among them approval of Gulf'~ board of directors." said a Gulf spokesman. The spokesman said a letter of intent signed by Venture Out included the purchase of Circus World Development now under construction near Orlando Fla. ' 
The. Observer is publiShed daily dunng the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester (Sl• per yur) from The Observer Box Q, · Notre ·Dame, ­
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame lnd 
46556. ' . 
• • • • -7, 9, ·and ·npm · Engineering Auditorium 
$1 
"THE NIFTIEST 

THE FRENCH 


CONNECTION 
IN THE GREAT TRADITION 
OF AMERICAN THRILLERS. 
2oth Century-Fox ~~ COLOR BY DE LUXE" 
Tues. & Wed. 
.. ., .. " 'f 0 ·~ ~J -~ , •1 ~ I ! o ., ........... "\, '\, .,., ~
.' 
•

SMC menu to 1mprove 
by Leanne Jacques Stafff Reporteerr 

The recent $13,000 allotment to Saga Foods from St. Mary's will enable the food service to return to a menu selection similiar to last year's, according to Saga. 
Most of th is money will go towards more meat entrees. There will be unlimited se~onds on all choices except steaks served on Saturda y nights. 
Breakfast changes include scrambles eggs and meat three times a week. 
Tom Novak, assistant manager of Saga said, "We plan to cut out a lot of the casseroles we've been serving-like meatless lasagna, and have more ham, pork shops, and veal." 
The sandwich bar will be con­tinued every day and the sundae bar continued at Sunday brunch. 
"ON ce a week we also plan to have a Monotony Breaker," said Novak. "This will be barrels of chops and dip at the doors." 
Saga expects to hold large dinners monthly. The first of these is scheduled for February 14, Valentine's Day. 
Dr. Edward L. Henry proposed the $13,000 allocation to the Finance Committeee of the Board of Regents after a discussion in the advisory council. Dr. Henry said he noticed a number of complaints about the food last fall. This $13,000 will supplement Saga's contract untill next fall. 

"With the 18 per cent increase in food prices, the quality of food services all over the country has reduced," Henry stated. He believes that with the present allocation the St. Mary's food service's quality will remain high. 
Co-exchange dinner tickets are still available. The only exception is Saturday steak night. 


"A Long-Expected Party" 
Tolkien Costume Ball 
THURSDAY, JAN 31, 9-12 La Fortune Ballroom 
singles $2.00 couples $3.75 
...tickets on sale MON, TUES, WED in the dining halls 
''Anyway, I mean to enjoy myself on Thursday" Bilbo Ba ins, p. 49 




When will tickets go on sale for Marcel Marceau and when can I purchase them? 
Marcel Marceau will be appearing at O'Laughlin Auditorium on Feb. 19 at 8 p.m. for one performance only, which without a doubt should be quite a performance. Ticket sales for Patron Card Holders wili begin at 1 p.m. on Jan. 29 at the CAC Office which is located on the 3rd floor of the LaFortune Student Ceriter. Patron Card Holders will then have first shot at tickets for a period of three days, Jan. 29-31, between the hours of 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. General ticket sales will begin on Feb. 1 at the same office during the hours of 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. Tickets will remain on sale until all are sold 
which shouldn't take very long. 
I applied for a summer job through the Placement Service here on campus last October. Up until now, I haven't heard hide nor hair from them. Can you find out if I am going to get a job offer? 
We checked with the Placement Bureau and found that the alumni clubs, nnt so much the Bureau, is responsible for finding the jobs needed. The process is a simple one. The placement Bureau collects job requests and then sends them out to the designated areas which the students make note of on their application form. It is then up to the local alumni clubs to see what they can do about contacting employers in the area, who in turn if in need of help write the student. According to the Placement Bureau, since you applied early, you should have a good shot at getting a job. However, it should be noted that the economy is running into trouble and this could mean a shrinking job market for this sum­mer. 
When will the first issue of the Scholastic be out and will it be the football review issue? 
The first publication of the Scholastic will be available a week from Friday, Feb. 1, and to the best of our knowledge should be strictly a review of the past football season. 
I heard that Walsh and Badin Halls will have a spring formal. Is this tue, and if so, when will it be? 
Yes, the two halls in question will have a Spring Formal on March 30 in the Monogram Room. Members of the girl's dorms on the North Quad will be included if the situation allows. For further information, you can contact Chris Anhut in 211 Badin at 6918. 
The Ombudsman Service has-officially resumed operations for the Spring Semester. Office hours will be from 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. If you have any question, problem, or complaint feel free to call the Ombudsman Service at 7638. Action Express is just one way by which the Ombudsman Service hopes to serve the students. 


New campus apartments to open next school year 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 
Campus View, a new apartment building, will be available next September for Notre Dame off­campus students. Located just north of Turtle Creek, the apart­
ments will consists of 96 units:  72  
two-bedroom  apartments  and  24  
one-bedroom apartments.  

Father Shilts, director of off­campus residence, said con­struction will probably start in April and should be completed during the summer. 
The Campus View apartments are privately owned by Mr. Wilson of the Crestwood Management Compariy. They are also their own contractors, developers, and managers of the project. 
"This project is geared directly to Notre Dame students," com­mented Joe Kleiser, assistant to Wilson. In addition to a swimming pool, a community building will contain the activities the students request, such as pool tables, ping pong tables and juke boxes. 
When rental rates are established, the Crestwood Company will come to the ~mpus with pictures of the room layouts and furnishings. 

Since girls are being allowed to move off campus next semester, Kleiser hopes to see girls come to Campus View. 
President 
intends 

to stay 
by Helen Thomas 

Washington <UPU--Faced with increased demands from Congress and citizens that President Nixon be impeached, the White House T uesday reiterated the President's intention to finish his second term . 
Presidential Press Secretary Ronal L. Ziegler said Nixon will remain in office until 1976 because "he knows he has not been in­volved in any wrongdoing" in the Watergate scandal. 
The President reacted through his spokesman to a new round of demands that he resign rather than face impeachemnt. 
A number of congressional Democrats, just back from a month's vacation and sounding out of voter sentiment, called for the President to quit rather than subject the nation to the divisiveness of impeachment proceedings. 
Rep. George Danielson, D-Calif., a member of the House Judiciary Committee which is studying possible impeachment, said the President should step down now. 
"I think he should and I do think he will, if not sooner than halfway through the impeachment hearings," Danielson said. "When he realizes the strength of evidence and almost total disaffection of the people with him, it might bring about a spontaneous resignation." George Meany, president of the AFL-CIO, said: "He's got to be impeached." But Meany denied his organization has launched a deliberate campaign against the President. 
The nation, according to a new 
opinion poll, was evenly divided 
whether Nixon should resign. A 
Gallup poll showed 46 per cent said 
yes and 46 no on that question. 

Ziegler, who has delegated press 
briefings to his assistant for 
months, came out subdued but 
fighting Tuesday to defend his 
chief and express hi!! feelings. 

"We're going to be on the record 
as much as we can," he told 
reporters. Nixon, he said, has 
more or less abandoned answering 
the "constant, constant, constant, 
unsupported charges" against him 
and in the exercise of "proving the 
negative." Nixon's determination, 
he said, is based on the fact that he 
has not been involved in any of the 
Watergate coverup of related 
activities--"that prompts him 
more than anything else." 

Earlier, White House sources 
said the President agrees with 
congressional leaders that the 
sooner the House Judiciary 
Committee completes its im­
peachment inquiry the better. 

(continued on page 6) 


Don't Forget! 


PLEASE 
All Mardi Gras raffle tickets MUST be returned. NOW. 
GIVE MONEY OR UNSOLD TICKETS TO YOUR SECTION LEADER. 
**TODAY** 

Wednesday, January 13, 1974 the observer 
We've Moved 
Now Conveniently Located in Ba.din Hall--Next to the Barber Shop 
Tony's Shoe Shop 
Open  8am-6pm  Mon.-Fri., 9am-4pm Sat.  
-All  types  of  Shoe Service and Accessories  
-Prices  Lower  than  shops downtown  
-Free pen  or  pencil  for  everyone  


Nickie's 
Wed. Nite "Hard Core'' Special 

30¢ shot (bar booze) 40¢ can Schlitz Malt 

You won't believe what's happening at the 
OBSERVER OPEN HOUSE 
Tonight and Tomorrow 
Drop in after nine and see how the paper's put together, or you may wish to join up. Either way, stop in! 

Ticket Prices: Bleachers •••••••• _•$3.50 Lower AreM ••••••••$4.50 Main Fllor ••••••••••$5.50 Loge •• _••••_••• _•• $5.50 Platform ••• _•••••••$5.50 
Tickets on sale: NOTRE DAME, A. C. C. Mon. • Sat. 9 to 5 Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall St. Joseph Bank -and branches first Bank -Main office only Elkhart Truth 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. J. Geils Band. Send to J. Geils Band Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 
, .. 
' .... :. l .~ 
. ·~·' ".~ \ ·. f/t·,'N4'..'",:.~;...r-s'¥f>'I>£-n.'b''U, ( ..•.......... 
1 
I 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER Jerry Lutkus 
Art Ferranti  Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett  
Executive Editor  Executive Editor  
Lee Gentine Business Manager  NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471  John Kloos Advertising Manager  

P.O. Box Q 
pass through the eye of a needleUnfair, Father than for a Notre Dame fan to enter the kingdom of God. Dear Editor, 
Jack Hamilton
Concerning the letter written in 
Dept. of Economics
the editorial column of The Ob­
Southern Illinois University
server on 1-22-74 by Fr. Lally, we 
Carbondale, Illionois 62901
would like to get a few things 
Wednesday, January 23, 1974 
It's That Time­The Numbers Game 
be.
The decision by the University to organize a campus-wide lottery is ' The CentralStaff has claimed the right 
to help students whether they want helpperhaps the fairest way possible to or not, yet they have refused to help thehandle the situation at hand. It will off-campus students who are crying outhopefully treat all the students involved for help. Fr. Shilts' list of rent gougersfairly. Another definite advantage of the may be find and dandy, but what dooddecision is its timing. At least the early does it do a student to know that he isnotice will allow students the chance to getting ripped off when he can't goknow what their status is. 
anywhere else? Fr. Shilts, like the lan­But the mere fact that a lottery must be dlords and like the students forced off-
held indicates something terribly wrong with the system at Notre Da-me. A lot­, campus, knows that an off-campus 
student without a car has either got to betery can not become an annual affair at a on a main artery of the city or nearuniversity which advertises itself as a campus. The landlords know that Notreresidential school. That statement is no Dame is putting the students over the
longer altogether true because not 
barrel, and they will continue to gougeeveryone has the free choice to spend prices until the University doesfour years on campus here. And the something about it.
University should accept the respon­sibility to inform those new students The action needed must be quick, 
coming here that after a couple years~ decisive, and forceful. Landlords who are here they may be facing a housing crisis gouging prices should be blacklisted by 
that will force them off-campus. the University and any student who at­The problems seem to be in admissions tempts to rent from a blacklisted gouger right now and hopefully the suggestions should come under University pressure. 
of the University Priorities Committee The University should also look into the will solve the problem. Look at the possibilities of bringing legal action figures. It was reported that some 800-against blacklisted landlords if they 
plus students will have to move off­insist on gouging in an area where they campus next year. If the normal amount basically corner the market. The lan­of seniors and juniors voluntarily move dlords involved make their livings from off, that will leave approximately 100-150 Notre Dame students, and they would students in the lurch. The present lower rents and make promised and 
enrollment is over 6700 and if the needed repairs to stay off the blacklist. 
University does in fact stabilize But if the Central Staff won't take 
enrollment at 6600, that will serve to forceful action against gougers and rip­
eliminate the numbers problem. off artists who masquerade as landlords, 
But the problem must be tackled now the students who are being forced off­and the priorities committee recom­campus should know why no action is mendation should become rule now being taken: Notre Dame is one of the because the university community few campuses in the country having to cannot tolerate this annual conscription. force people off-campus. Notre Dame 
Further, one issue that cannot be doesn't want off-campus life to be too ignored any longer is the fate of the appealing to the students, lest the Notre students forced off-campus by the lack of Dame dorms also go empty when beds in the dorms. The Central Staff students find an enjoyable off-campus must acknowledge the fact that most of life. the students who have been or who are The necessary actions are obvious. The going to be forced off-campus were lured University must lower the enrollment to Notre Dame during a period when the and protect and aid the off-campus stay hall system was being advertised as student. one of the University's major qualities; if there are no beds available, some sort of -Dan Barrett protection for off-campus students must and Jerry Lutkus 
straight that the good Father ~?:rossly misconstrued and misin­terpreted. He implies that we, in ­the lower part of section 7, leveled obnoxious obscenities atcoachJohn Wooden. Nothing could be further from the truth. No one has more respect for that fine coach and gentleman than we do. Not enough can be said of his outstanding career. As a matter of fact, on the Friday night before the game, most of the undersigned travelled to the Ramada Inn for the sole purpose of meeting John Wooden, and capturing a glimpse of the great players of U.C.L.A. During our fortunate meeting we congratulated him on his achievements and proceeded to wish him the best of luck on the court. As we shook his hand, we also told him that we would have to root against him, to which he 
replied, "That's the way it should 
be." 
There were certain indescretions directed toward the referees during the course of the game by ourselves and other sections. This is unfortunate, looking in retrospect. Facing the ugly facts, this does occur during games, but that does not make it excusable, and we apologize to anyone that might have been offended by them. 
We can only speak for our own section since it was the focus of Fr. Lally's attack, but we feel our attitudes are certainly not ex­ceptional or unusual, and we resent his unfair manner of ac­cusations. 
By the way, we don't need to go to the county jail to witness the cockroach races, they are readily appreciated in our own over­crowded dorms. 
Sincerely, 
John E. Hutton 
James P. McCormick 
Kedric Chamberlin 
William Schoelwer 
Terrence Cooney 
Charles Greene 
Thomas Pavilionis 
Michael Leary 
David Spala 
William Lawrence 
James Maloney 
You're Damned, Irish 
Dear Editor: 
You people should be ashamed of yourselves. At a time when the country is experiencing its ~?:reatest misuse of the desire to win, we have the spectacle of the Notre Dame winning spirit on nationwide TV. Symbolic of this Lord of the Flies mentality was the cheerleaders running onto the court to shout hatred at a UCLA basketball player. I couldn't believe my eyes. 
Counter to this was Bill Walton 
helping a Notre Dame player get 
Otis Going Broke? 
Dear Editor: 
If you attended the "Community of Champions Rally" last Sunday you heard Father Hesburgh tab Indiana Governor Otis Bower the 'Number One fan of the number 1 team who beat other number 1 teams by 1 point.' This morning I received a letter from our 'Number 1 Fan.' 
The letter was a reply to a request for an ad in the Bengal Bout Program. Mr. Bowen was sent an ad form and an explanation of the bouts; the fact that it is for the missions, tax deductible, non­profit, etc. The enclosed letter states that neither the state nor he personally can afford to make such a contribution. <The ads sell for as low as $15, as high as $60). This I believe is a serious situation. The state of Indiana is allowing their Governor to go broke! Can we, the University of Notre Dame, let this happen to our Number 1 Fan? 
I would clearly hope that the answer to this question is NO and that, upon conclusion of the Bengal Bouts, instead of sending all that money to Bengal, Pakistan, some portion should be directed to the Statehouse in Indianapolis. 
Bob Kane 
Drawling Class 
Dear Editor: 
Those of us who use the Southern dialect object to your misspelling of Y'awl in the Editorial entitled, "Y'all Come." Our objection is based on the hope that if we are to see the incorporation of such a warm and encompassing word as Y'awl in Webster's unabridged (parallel with the action on ain't(, we must have consistent spelling on the part of all users. We can only conclude that you have been consorting with some mighty ignorant folk. 
We'uns 'preciate yore hep. 
Sincerely, 
Robert E. Gordon 
Vice President for 
Advanced Studies 
Editor's Note: Our managing editor, who is a native of the South and currently living in Dallas, informs us that Mr. Gordon doesn't know what he's talkin' 'bout. As a contraction of "you all, "y'all has no "w" in it. We-all appreciate yo corncern, but we knows what we's talkin' 'bout. 
Store Your Bike 
A quick reminder for one of the better deal you really can't beat: five years of bargains on campus this year: bike Computer Guard protection and a nice, storage. For the first time, you can put dry place to put your bike. your bike inside the stadium for the whole Check it out; take you bike to the Pass winter. The cost? Nothing, if your bike is Gate at the north end of the stadium 
already registered with Security and between 1 and 4 p.m. today and walk it Computer Guard, a national bike around to Gate 7 (you can't get in Gate 7 registration program. If it isn't from the outside). It's a bargain you 
registered, all you have to do is register it shouldn't miss. for the low cost of one buck. And that's a > -Joseph Abell 
up after a fall. He gave you all a lesson in sportsmanship, but I doubt if any of you learned a damned thing. What apalls me most is that this behavior is an integral part of what should be a university dedicated to making the world more civilized, so that all men may pursue the path to eternal happiness. Instead we have people trained to go out and work for Nixon. 
I remind you of some words of wisdom from the Holy Bible: "What wuuld it profit a man if he gained the whole wcwltd, but suf­fered the loss of his immortal soul?" 
It may be easier for a camel to 
~ " " ' .. • ' • ' ; • • t ; 
• 4 .. " .1 ~ • 1 I I I I 1 .; I I I I 
the observer 
Nite Editor: Albert D'Antonio Ass't. Nite Editor: Rick Blower Loyout: Ayn Moriarty Copy Editor: Greg Allietta Day Editor: Terry Keeney Typists: Barb Haug, Tom Modglin, 
John Flannigan, Howard Halle Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Nite Controller: Joe Abell 
Sports:  John Fineran  
·  
• " f • .,. • • I ~ i I i I 1  .. ~ ~ t • • w • • 1 i 1 ; I I • I I ;.  • )  ·  r­ ~  ~.  f  •  

----------· 
Wednesday, January 23, 1974 the observer 
0-C students offered lunch plan 
by R. Thomas Thues that the lunch plan will create payment must be presented to the have signed up for this program so the plan they should be directed to Staff Reporter greater off campus-on campus Food Services Administration far. Mary North in the Food Service relationships. 
office on second floor South Dining ITALlAN & BRITISH SHAG & LAYER CUTS HAIR & SCALP ANALYSIS Sam Belardinella M1ke McDonald FOR APPOINTMENTS CALL 188-6661 Closed Monday See Our New MEN'S DEN . Featuring The latest Fashions In Men's Clothes 2303 S. MIAMI S. BEND JUST N. OF BUSCHIIAUM'S PHARMAC'f  
Want to do something worthwhile for yourself? If you have at least two years left at Notre Dame you should investigate the Army ROTC Program on campus. There are openings for enlisted veterans who have the additional opportunity to apply for a one year full tuition scholarship. Veterans may opt for either a 3 month or a 2 year active duty commitment after commissioning. Non-veterans interested in earning an officer's commission should inquire about the Two-Year Program. Individuals in this program are eligible for two and for one-year scholarships. If you desire further information, visit the Army ROTC office on campus or call 6264. Army Rare  
SERVICE SPECIAL t WITM~Otl WITH COUPON:-------·i· ,_;•;;Q<!PilON :-....-......: lilliE IEUIIIC ··---···· i--.r . DISCEXCEPT I MOST & BAAKESANO. . . . ~·:;.~AAS: AMI:.. ICAN -.· l-'21*' l... . : CARS t AMY I CYL.. U.S. AUTO : : 'L95 :':::lc:..:c:-c!..~b =~·.: : !NCLUD£S P'LUGS, ..OINTS ,1. INCLUDES FULL IN­1 ..Alllt'TS I[)(TIItA : CONDI:NS€R, atEOC : SP[CTIOf'l, FLUID : 1,-NE[U£0 : ~~:cET~!.~~!; : WE'NO CLEAN. ALSO ..........................,:OIIIt ---.··---···----,.·-. • • dliii.Ui5¥9LIIIQ•i t; • • P•• ·-: 2 5 0 000 MILE GOA,.ANT££ :AIR MUFFLERS·--------.. BUY 3 ~ lSHOCKS $10.95 SHOCKS n~;'32.95 ~ plus an {.)/l1 FIIEE i i~ installation •II . REG. $7.77 EACH l 1 I CARS INSTALLED : FOR MOSY AMERICA... ························· Brand new 4-ply tires start at $12.95 650-13 plus $1.81 tax Phone 272-1023 ClOP l'ltiiCTS IT CIIUP I'IIICIS IS II IAI51UI !Wfl lillY 'Tlll I. UT. 'T1I. 4 ... I'WKn 11 Glut I'IIICU IS I IUUII 8 TRACK TAPES $2.75 DISCOUNT TIRE SERVICE 505115 I.S. 31 lortll, Sollfll led, IHiau  

If there are any questions about Administration Office. The new five meal lunch plan for Other such programs have been Hall. A special five day lunch plan
off campus students provides offered on a larger scale. The full . ticket will be issued. lunch Monday through Fridays meal schedule is offered at a cost Both lunch plan 'tickets and during the regular lunch period. of $335 per semester. The lunch student ID card must be presented
The lunch plan is being offered at plan is offered for $110 per to the checker in order to gainthe South Dining Hall only for semester, prorated at $1.40 per entrance into the student diningthose off campus students who meal. rooms. would like to eat a large meal while E .E. Moore of Student Accounts "This is a trial plan," said they are on campus. said, "We prorate all meals Price's secretary Mary North. 
While these meals are not previous to date of purchase." She continued, "I imagine a transferable and are available Payment for the lunch plan must special dinner plan can be only to the individual to whom the be made at the Student Accounts arranged if this program works privilege is issued, Food Services office in the Administration out." Director Edmond Price believes Building. The receipt for this A total of 30 off campus students 
Henry issues state:ment in support of pro-life :move:ment 
On the first anniversary of the on abortion marks the first official created it. No court, no legislative 
Supreme Court decision that inroad on this value system, and it body, no individual person may legalized abortion, Dr. Edward L. is to be regarded at the minimum .assigmless value to the life of any Henry, president of Saint Mary's with dismay and reservation. human being. It now seems clear issued the following statement in Reverand Walter Higgins, CSC, that a necessary measure to support of the pro-life movement: of Saint Mary's Campus Ministry, safeguard the right of the unborn 
"One of the central values of the read the pastoral messsage to be born is to amend the Judea-Christian civilization has Sunday, from the Right Reverend Constitution of the United States. been a regard for human life. It is Leo A. Pursley, bishop of Fort At 12 o,clock noon the bells of implicit in the religious and civil Wayne-South Bend: Saint Mary's Convent tolled for values of that civilization ; it is "Abortion is not a Catholic fifteen minutes in response to the undergirded by the respect ac-issue ; it involves a principle request issued by bishops all over 
corded individual rights in the which cuts across religious lines, the United States in mourning the Constitutional philosophy of the the principle that the life of every abortion ruling passed a year ago West. The Supreme Court decision human is sacred because God today. 
Ca~npus Ministry offers course 
"Rediscovering Catholicism" is finding less and less personal of the importance of belonging to a the title of the non-credit course meaning in the practice and tests faith community. I feel it is offered this semester by Campus of their faith. Some continue to possible to interpret traditional Ministry. It is desinged to help observe the external regulations of Catholicism in such a way as to those who can no longer find the Church out of habit or fear, become aware ofits significance in meaning in Catholic teachings and while others have decided to cease our struggle to become more practice come to a new un­being "practicing Catholics" for human." derstanding of the significance of the sake of their own integrity, and Anyone intereseted in this small both. some just don't want to be group, oncea-week experience is 
Fr. Tom Stella, who will conduct bothered. asked to contact Fr. Stella at the the course, said, "A majority of the "There are many students who, Office of Campus Ministry (6536). Catholics, students and other­though they find formal religion a This course will probably last about wise, with whom I have dealt are bore, are nonetheless convinced five weeks. · 
Oil executives claim no extra profits 
At the Senate hearings, Jackson figures on volume of business andby William Clayton 
underscored his doubts about oil net earnings for the first nine company profits by holding up a n1onths of 1973, con1pared to the Washington <UPI>-Oll company chart showing industry-supplied same period the year before. 
executives told skeptical senators Tuesday the industry is not reaping any profit bonanza from 40 per cent off Party Supplies 256'0lTI the energy crisis despite record 
~f:::::::::::.::::;;:::::;;;:::;;:;::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'
earnings last year thatsoared as high as 60 per cent over 1972. 
.~~~!Stationary 20% ofH~ Cards 
Their testimony at the Senate 
t: with this ad. ~~~~ 
Permanent Investigations Sub­committee's second day of hearing 
. . ~·· :~..........·.·.·····················································i;i; Books
I ..·.·.·.•.•.••._·.•.•.•.·.•.•.•.·.•.•.•.·.•..•.•.•:•:•:•:···············:•:•:···:•"•'· 
~· ~ · : 1 ·, \tl~ ....._.M~gazines
drew a retort from Senator Henry 
§~~t
M. Jackson, D-Wash., the chair­
.'{~~~~~~\ mini-mall 
man, that the industry's own 
towns. countr/~•l'"':.f~'J-f,t 2340 miracle lane Art .
figures strongly suggested 
<hoppong center ~~-\."'>«-mishawaka, indiana 46544 suppII e ~ 
"windfall profits" at the puNic's expense. ;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·.·.·.·.•.·.·.:.:.·.:::.:.:.:.:.·.::::::::·:::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:: Secretary of State Henry A. ;~;~ :::: 
Kissinger meanwhile held out the:::: SMC Social Comission Presents ~~ 
prospect of an end to the Arab oil ;::; ..... embargo some time before early~:: An Evening with Broadway's Own ::::: 
March, as a result of the Egyptian-:;: ::~==.·=~.:j·:·:
::·l.......
Israeli agreement to disengage ::: military forces along the Suez::: 
TEVYE & G 
Canal. ;:; 0 LDE :::i be~~~~3~C:en~~:rg~:f~;~~I~la~; ll) ~l} catalyst for U.S. fuel shortages:;: n ddl h R f" :~l~ 
would be lifted before completion::: from Fi er on t e 00 
M 
of the 4o-day Suez disengagement ~:: :::~ 
st;r~:~g ::~aybe a "reasonable \ll\ Jan. 25 8:15 pm $2.00 students \l~~ 
time," he said, and the Arabs' ;:~ ' :=:~ failure to resume oil shipments to;:~ O'LAUGHLIN =:=.:~:j
':i;.. 
the United States by the "would;:: $3.50 public raise serious questions of con-;:: AUDITORIUM :::~ fidence in our ~ninds .with respect ~ J:"·l: 
~~~~ed~~~~ =~~~si;;~.~hom we:!::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::;:;:::::;:::;:::::::::::~~~~:::tX:9..lt~UJ::f::i:::::::::~:~:td::ll:t \ ~ 

Wednesday, January 23, 1974
the observer
6 
Rehnquist to judge at Moot Court 
by Gregg B. Bangs Staff Reporter 
William H Rehnquist, associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, will head a distinguished panel of jurists presiding at the final argument __ of the Moot Court competition sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School. The annual argument commences at 8:30 P.M. in the Memorial Library Auditorium on Saturday, January 26, and is open to the general public. 
Joining Rehnquist on the bench for the final argument will be the Honorable C. William O'Neill, former Governor of Ohio and presently the chief justice of the Ohio Supreme Court, and Circuit Judge Mron H. Bright of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit at Fargo, North Dakota. 
All law students at Notre Dame engage in two rounds of appellate arguements each year heMe courts 
-__,. 
composed of Notre Dame faculty, advanced students and local at­torneys. After having successfully completed the second-year round of arguements, the participants who attained the highest rankings are invited to argue in a semifinal elimination round. Winners of this 
Man testifies 
in Henley's 
defense 
Houston <UPI>--A young man testified Tuesday that accused murderer Elmer Wayne Henley saved him from being raped last summer by shooting to death the purported mastermind of a sex and torture murder ring that had claimed 'l:llives. 
The young man, Timothy Kerley, 20, said n a pre-trial hearing that Dean Carll, 33, the leader of the ring, handcuffed him to a board face down, then argued with Henley and dared Henley, "Kill me, Way11e; kill me, Wayne." 
Kerley said Henley, 17, then shot Carll at point blank range to prevent Carll from raping him. 
The slaying ended the murder ring's killings at '1:7, all boys, Henley is charged with six of the deaths and an associate, David Owen Brooks, 18, is accused of four others that took place over a three­year period. Corll was killed last August 8 in a glue-sniffing party that became a sex orgy. 
Kerley said the fatal argument between Henley and Corll began when Henley spoke up. 
Nixon to 
•
rema1n in office 
(continued from page 3) 
Although a current was running for Nixon's resignation, strong voices sounded against such ac­tion, even from the Democratic party. 
Senate Democratid Leader Mike Mansfield refused to JOin colleagues in Congress who called for Nixon's resignation. "I don't think he should resign," Mansfield said. Vice President Gerald R. Ford said he is certain Nixon _is innocent of any Watergate wrongdoing. 
"The President would be very unwise to resign," Ford said. "It would be wrong to dos o, par­ticularly since I believe he is not guilty of any wrongdoing and will be exonerated." 

Dean, Clarence Marion. A. Harold Weber,-a 1922 Graduate of the school, presents cash awards to the winners. 
The man _ responsible -for bringing Justice Kehnquist to Notre Dame is Dr. Francis X. Beytagh, a professor of Law, who also is the faculty advisor for the Moot Court Competition. Beytagh was also responsible for bringing former Chief Justice Earl Warren to the Notre Dame Campus. 
"I worked in the Justice Department for a long time. When 
ND -SMC THEATRE ANNOUNCES 
for Pinter's TRYOUTS THE HOMECOMING 
Jan. 21 and 22, 7 pm Callbacks, Jan 23, 7pm Washington Hall Washington Hall OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS (Note: Please wear clothing appropriate for physica I exercise) 
TAEKWONDO 
Demonstration 
Dong Sik Kim (Head Instructor: 6th Black) 
Time: Jan. 23, 1974, 6pm Place: ACC Wrestling Gym. Blackbelt pin FREE for new beginners . 
EVERYONE INTERESTED IN THE SPRING TRIP TO ACAPULCO, INCLUDING THOSE WHO HAVE ALREADY PAID THE DEPOSIT--GO TO 
T~E MEETING WEDNESDAY, JAN 23 at 
7:00pm IN LAFORTUNE'S FIESTA LOUNGE 
Attendance is mandatory! Details of the trip will be discussed. 

I,. 
ACAPULCO! 
this conversa~~on is open to both law students and undergraduates. "In the past, these lectures were only open to law students," com~nented Nau, "but many Law Semmar classes are going to this conversation so the decision was made to open the program up to the entire student body." 
This move was also made to promote student interest, because Nau thinks that "many people feel removed from their government especially the judicial branch. ' This opportunity is unique in that it gives students a chance to see a person who is insturmental in making decisions in such vital national issues as social reform." 
Rehnquist follows George McGovern as the second speaker 
national prominence to visit Notre Dame this academic year. McGovern's visit was termed an ''overwhelming success.'' Although he does not expect that 
J'jrttfone 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 


T,,m McMahon General Agent 
'learafter vear. ~eme~ter I after ~emc~ter. the CollegeMaster' from Fidelit\' Union Life has hcen the most accepted. most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity L'nion CollegeMaster· Field Associate
. 
m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend , Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
!~," :~. 
.}.~ 
-.­
-'·' 
'
•
CDllegeMaster· 
response that McGovern received, Nau is hoping for a good turnout. 
"McGovern became a common name in American households because he ran for President, and was in the National Spotlight. Although Rehnquist is not as well known as McGovern, his position in American Government is an important one and should merit the attention of the Student Body." 
advanced competition take part in National Moot Court Competition and also get to appear in the Notre Dame Moot Court Arguement. 
The four third-year Law Students participating in this year's finals are Norum Lerum of Indianapolis, George McCarthy of Oswego, New York, Robert Halladay of Silver Spring, Maryland, and Thomas Paquin of 
S. Yarmouth, Massachusetts. 
They will debate a hypothetical case involving a new community housing addition which is denied because of the lack of adequate water and sewer systems. A suit is then filed in a District Court resulting in a judgement which is favorable to the city before the United States Court of Appeals reverses the decision. Halladay and Paquin will be the counsels for the imaginary community, while the counsels for the respondents will be taken by Lerum and McCarthy. 
The quality of each of the four participant's oral arguements will be judged by the visiting jurists and the students with the highest scores are named to receive the Dean's Award. This award was established in 1950 by former did and I got to know him. I just asked him if he would like to come out and preside over the Moot ourt final arguements," said Beytagh. 
Earlier that Saturday at 3:30 P.M., the Student Bar Association is sponsoring a conversation with Rehquist that will take place in the Student Lounge of the Law 'School. 
This conversation was set up by Chuck Nau, a third year Law 
Student  who  is  also  Lecture  
Chairman  of  the  Student  Bar  
Association.  
Nau wished  to  emphasize that  

~~---~ 
t'""lr. ,s.~·.-~.1,;,;, .~.;~'-':· ...• .... ~,.-:··~t·,·,·~ ~"",r)·( ~> 
·~..................... 
. ....................................... ------------­
--------------------~-----------------­
Law School stresses experience 
Wednesday, January 23, 1974 the observer 7 -­
Students at Notre Dame have entered yet another courtroom in a continuing Law School program of emphasizing the educational value of actual professional experience. The newest locale is the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago, just one level below U.S. Supreme Court action. 
With the encouragement of Chief Judge Luther M. Swygert, two students have appeared before the Court to present oral arguments, a function usually reserved to practicing attorneys. The Chicago jurist and Notre Dame graduate sees a healthy future for the program, which is designed both to help the Court with its case load and to give the participating students valuable experience in appellate litigation. 
Two Notre Dame professors with extensive experience in appellate work, Assistant Dean Leslie G. Foschio and Francix X. Beytagh, are appointed by the Court to represent indigent defendants in cases pending on appeal. Each case is then assigned to teams of students in the appellate practice program who then correspond with the client, research the law, prepare briefs and motions, and make certain that all filings conform to proper appellate procedures. 
Foschio and Beytagh exercise a supervisory role once a case has been assigned to students. They consult with the students and approve the briefs in their final form, but the student determines the approach to be taken much the same as he would in actual practice. In some cases they have recommended that the appeals be 1dropped because of the absence of sound arguments. 
Appeals come in two forms, direct appeals from lower Federal Court convictions and post­conviction relief sought in Federal Courts by state prisoners. Notre Dame students have been involved in a variety of cases, including questions of conspiracy, theft from interstate commerce, attempted escape, illegal transportation of aliens, counterfeiting, illegal engaged in regular Practice Court offices of county attorneys acrosssearch and seizures, and violation activities in the South Bend area northern Indiana and southernof civil rights. 
for more than a quarter of a Michigan. Others engage in the
Participating student!;i agree 
century, and Moot Court com­annual client-counseling com­with veteran members of the law petition goes back even farther. petition which will have itsprofession who believe that ap­Some students perform a wide national finals on the Notre Damepellate work is a good training range of legal activities in the campus this year.
area for a legal career. Appeals are instituted because somebody r-----------------------------, 
has allegedly made a mistake and H E L p I I I I 
efforts to mitigate that error tend • • • • 
to assure that the student will not make a similar mistake in han-W d h 
dling cases at the trial level. e nee you to elp build 
The first Notre Dame student to 
see a case through the Appellate Mardi Gras booths! Tonight
Court was a practicing attorney in Kansas City by the time it was 7 12 at Stepan c t 
scheduled for hearing. Philip • en er• 
Cardarella, a 1973 graduate, 
returned to the Chicago cour-"The road goes ever on and on... " 
!rooms last October to present final arguments in a case that had Bilbo Baggins 
a beginning in his senior year. A ~=============--=-----------=:...::..___J 
decision in a second case argued by a current senior, Thomas Paquin of Boston, is pending. 
Appellate advocacy is only one of several areas of practical training in whch Notre Dame Law School students participate. They have 

give yourself 
Rehabilitation Task Force to 
time to reflect... 
meet at SMC this Wednesday 
with 
Saint Mary's will be with site of the northern Indiana Region I Corrections-Rehabilitation Task Force meeting on Wednesfay, January 23. Region I includes the counties of Elkhart, St. Joseph, Jasper, Kosciusko, Lake, La Forte, Marshall, Newton, Porter, Pulaski, and Starke. It will be co­shairec! by Patrick Gallagher, director of public safety, South Bend, and Michael F. Herman, juvenile court and corrections coordinator, Lake County coord­nation council. 
The group will study programs funded locally and those funded by the State Department of Corrections, so as to av oid duplication and to develop better . coordination, cooperation and balance of efforts between the state and the local community-
based programs. The concern of the Region I gathering is to develop a heightened awareness of those involved in the sate and at the 
loc.al level. 
Guest speaker of the day will be 
Jim Brown, coordinator of the 
Governor's Region II Community 
Corrections Committee from Allen 
County. 
The agenda will also include the 
examination of criminal justice 
programs in the Region I area of 
juveniles and corrections which 
have been successful and can be 
duplicated in other parts of the 
state. The Task Force previously 
examinedtheSaintMary.sParent­
Delinquent Education Program. 
"We realize that this is the type of 
concerned activity that is not only 
helping a number of young people, 
but offers to us model pregrams 
----------~------------~~--~~~--.. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Need 2 GA tix ! 2 stud. tix tor Marquette game. Call 4007. 
NUsed electric typewriter. Call 6988. 
Need ride to Purdue Fri. or Sat. Call Mark 3623. 
Need roommate tor N D Apts. Call Tom at 282-1169. 
Experienced typist would like 'yping to do at hOme. 291-3357. 
MOTORCYCLE AC­CESSORIES. Responsible person with mechani-::al background to run motorcycle accessories dept. Great chance to Jearn retail mer­chandising and siplay. H0urs to suit class schedule. Apply to manager, Mr. H. Honda, 50715 US 31 N. 
PERSONALS 
Many thanks to our South Bend Tribune customers tor their generosity at Christmastime. Jo, Mike & Tom 
FOR RENT 
1974-74 school year -beautiful house . nice neighborhood -5 
B R. 234-5523. 
NOTICES 
Good tix for the Friday Feb. 8 performance of Grease at Morris Civic are available at 
the Student Union Ticket Of-· fice, open daily 1-5 pm. 
London Show Tour: March 9· 17, 1974. $451 trom SB -in­cludes air, accomodations, tix. $100 deposit due Feb 1. Call Sister ean Kiene 284-4516 or Clark Ede 234-2098. 
FOR SALE 
r sale: Stereo turntable, 
llwrens-Model TD160. Only 3 weeks old -full warranty in­cluded. $175. Call 232-1535 after 8:30pm. 
Kenwood Stereo receiver KR­3200. 3 mos. old. 232-6437 after 
3. 
Beautiful Suer 8 movie camera, BAJA viewer and Sumig splicer $600. 256-0701 or 259-8676. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Fou(1d tortoiseshell glasses Mnday noon, La Fortune. Call Jeff 1751. 
L ·st combination block stopwatch-wristwatch. At UCLA Game. Reward. 1410. 
Lst: Two ladies rings in Flanner's ladies rest room. Call Terry-8131. 
Found: 1watch on South Quad. Call Joe to claim . 1531. 
Lost antique gold bracelet with 
cameo  stone,  before  Xmas  
vacation.  $10 reward.  Judy  
6804.  

· -· • · -· 
for use in other areas of the state," said Patrick Gallagher. 
The-professionals attending this Region I meeting will be police officers, probation officers, parole officers, those associated with criminal justice planning agen­cies, persons working in juvenile delinquency prevention and corrections programs. Local participants will include Mike Carrington, chief probation of­ficer, St. Joseph County; Dr. Eugene Campanle, chairperson, department of education , St. Mary' Cappy Gagnon, executive director, Youth Services Bureau; Michael Oyer, Cheif probation officer, Elkhart Superior Court; John Sherbun, Family and Children's Center, Mishawaka. 
fr. jim burtchaell 
(fri jan. 25­(sun) jan. 27 
reservation can be made in campus ministry office ( 103 Lib). $5 fee --$3 non­refundable deposit. 

HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
r--------------------·----------------------­
the observer Wednesday, January 23, 1974
8
..... 
Shu's rebound saves Irish, 76-74 
by Greg Corgan 
Digger Phelps may have gotten a little more excitement than he bargained for--at least a little more than he hoped for. Playing in­spired basketball, the Kansas Jayhawks almost pulled off the second biggest upset of the college season last night in dropping a cliffhanger to Notre Dame 76-74. 
In a contest marked by more fouls than a Nolan Ryan baseball game,the Irish were nearly done in by a second-string center who prior to the night's action had averaged a mere seven points a game. Rick Suttle came off the bench to score 27 points, 19 of those in the near­disastrous second half before an Adrian Dantley layup, a John. Shumate rebound after a missed free throw, and a last minute stall iced the Irish victory. 
Before that, however, things got a little tense. Working themselves in and out of trouble throughout the second half, the Irish never lost the lead although the margin was cut to two on four different oc-
UCLA game rebroadcast 
Tonight, WNDU-TV, Channel16, will present the television replay of Saturday's Notre Dame victory over UCLA. The game, which the Irish won, 71-70, to snap the Bruins' 88-game winning streak, will be reviewed entirely over the network at 6:30 <EST). Tom Dennin will introduce the telecast. 
4-0 tankmen take to road 
by Hal Munger 
Coach Dennis Stark and his swimmers enjoyed a successful weekend at the Rockne Memorial Pool, defeating Bowling Green State University, 62-51, for their fourth win without a loss. It was Stark's 96 triumph at the Irish helm since he became their first coach in 1958. 
In this first meet of the second semester, the Irish jumped to a quick lead and glided home, taking the top spot in 9 of the meet's 13 events, never yielding the lead. Junior Jim Kane led Notre Dame with two firsts. The two-year letterman, two-time Irish MVP won the 50-yard freestyle in 22.3 and captured the 100-yard free in 
48.8. In the 200-freestyle., Jim 
·O'Connor swam a 1:50.8 to cop first, and Ed Graham ended first in the 200-yard Individual Medley at 
2: 10.4. Ed Makeilski and Bob Eben captured Irish firsts in the one and three-meter dives, and Bob Thompson won the 200-yard backstroke in 2:08.5. 
Notre Dame's 400-yard medley relay and 400-yard freestyle squads both were victorious against the Falcons. Thompson, Jim Fischer, Bob Reilly, and Kane finished 3:50.8 in the medley. Scott Medlock, Bob Ditolla, Rick Fitz­simons, and Reilly won the freestyle in 3:22.6. 
The tankmen take to the road for the first time this season, travelling to Rochester, Mich. to meet Oakland University Friday and on to Wayne State U. in Detroit 
... Saturday. Oakland (4-2 in dual meets this year) and Wayne State both competed in the Notre Dame In­vitational Relays earlier this season. The Pioneers and the Tatars finished behind Drury College (relay winners) and the Irish (second). Notre Dame handled each team easily last year. 
cas10ns. 
The first came with ten minutes 
left to play in the game, and after 
Digger's cagers had blown a 49-35 
halftime lead. Suttle, Dale 
Greenlee, and Tommy Smith 
combined for three straight KU 
field goals to narrow the gap from 
61-53 to 61-59. Mter a jumper by 
Billy Paterno made the margin 
four, Suttle again canned a jump 
shot cutting the Irish lead to 63-61 
with 8:45 left to play. 
A hook shot by Adrian Dantley, 
however, and two medium jum­
pers by Dwight Clay seemed to 
make things comfortable again at 
69-63. Both teams traded field 
goals before the Jayhawks roared 
back with five straight points 
sandwiched around a John 
Shumate free throw. This cut the 
ND lead to 72-68 with four minutes 
remaining. 
Shumate was then fouled and 
converted both ends of the one-and­
one. Danny Knight then hit a 
baseline jumper making it 74-70, 
and afterDantleymissed his chance 
at the gift line, Knight hit a 6-ft. 
jumper to bring KU within two 
with 2: 10 left to go. 
At this point the Irish went into their stall, or "square offense" as it is c~lled,and Dantley eventually went m for an easy layup making it 76-72 with 59 seconds left to play. Kansas coach Ted Owens quickly called a time-out, and when play resumed Suttle hit his 26th and 27th points with a short jumper. This made the score 76-74 and it stayed that way as the Irish held onto the ball the remaining 30 seconds and caputred their eleventh win without a loss. KU is now 11-4. 
Notre Dame also had some trouble with the fired-up Jayhawks 
in the opening period as they found the KU 3-2 zone hard to crack. However, a jumper by Clay followed by four consecutive points from Gary Brokaw put them up by ten, 28-18 with nine minutes left to play in the half. 
The Irish increased their lead to 14 at intermission, but that was the widest it got as the Jayhawks staged their second half surge. 
Suttle was the high scorer with his 27 points while Dale Greenlee had 12 for KU. John Shumate had 23 points, Adrian Dantley 17, and Gary Brokaw 12 for the Irish. 
Thursday night at 8 o'clock, St. Francis comes to the ACC to face the number-one Irish before ND travelsto the West Coast to face UCLA on Saturday. 
AP Poll 
I. Notre Dame (:16) 10.0 ..........990 
2. 
UCLA (15) 13·1 .. . .. . . . .944 

3. 
N. Carolina St. Il-l .. . .782 

4. 
North Carolina 12-1... . .. .651 

5. 
Maryland 10-2..... . ..649 6. Marquette 14·1. ...............510 7. Vanderbilt 12-1 ..................423 8. Providence 13-2 ..............375 


9. 
Alaliama 16-2 .. .. .. . ·.. . .. . 334 

10. 
Long Beach St. 12-: ............ 28.'i II. Indiana 11-3.. ................... 176 


12. 
SOUthern Cal 11-2 .. .. .. . .. ..... .150 

13. 
South Carolina 16-3 . . . . . . . . . . ...105 

14. 
Louisville 10-3 . . . . . . . . 104 15 Michigan 11·2.. .................. 119 


16. 
Pittsburgh 13-1.. .. .. .. .. .. .. . 88 

17. 
Wisconsin 16-2 . .. .. .. .. .. .. 11!1 

18. 
Centenary 12-0 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . 41 

19. 
New Mexico 12-3.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . 73 211 Arizona St. II~ .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . . 16 


Others receiving votes, listed alpha­betically: Anzona. Cincinnati, Colorado State, Detroit, Jacksonville. Kansas. Kansas State. Marshall, Maryland­Eastern Shore. Missouri. Nevada-Las Vegas. Onl Roberts, Purdue. Syracuse. Texas-EI Paso. 
UPI Poll 
I. Notre Dame (21) 16-0'............334 2. UCLA (14) 13-.1 .................329 
3. N.C. St. Il-l ................... ..m 4. Maryland 11-2.. ..................2'12 
5. North Carolina 12-1 .............. !!Ill 6. Marquette 14·1 ...................178 7. Providence 13-2 .................. 85 8. Vanderbilt 12·1. .................. 7& 
9. Long Beach St. 12·1.. ............ 37 10. Alabama 16-2 .................... 31 
11. Southern Cal 12·2 ................ 30 · 12. Pittsburgh 14-1 ................... 2i! 13. Indiana 11-3.. .................... 22 
14. 
South Carolina 16-2 .. .. .. .. . .. .. I 

15. 
LOIIisviUe 16-3 .. . . . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. 211 


II. Wisconsin 10-2 .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. . 11 
17. 
Kansas 11-3 . .. .. . • . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. 10 

18. 
Arizona St. il~ .. .. .. .. . .. . .. . . .. t 


II. Texas-EI Paso 12-3 .. . ... .. .. .. .. 7 
211. Michigan 11-2.......... . & 

With 40 seconds left, Irish center John Shumate pulled down his· •· .. ·. 
sec~nd game-winning rebound in as many games last night to give the 
nat1on's number-one team victory in Kansas. Shu's mates will be 
home tomorrow night versus St. Francis. 
Irish icers at home tonight; meet CCHA S Bovvling Green 
by John Fineran 
Irish hockey fans won't have to wait until Friday to see the Notre Dame club in action. Tonight the Irish will begin their brief respite from the WCHA as they entertain Bowling Green in the first game of a home-and-home series with the CCHA club . The two teams will meet again Friday evening on the Falcons' home ice. 
The Falcons will bring a three­game winning streak and a 12-13 record into the A.C.C. at 7:30p.m. Last weekend, Falcon head coach Ron Mason, in his first year at the school, saw his charges skate off with wins over Colgate (5-1) and Lake Forest 05-4 and 6-4). 
"Bowling Green has a fine hockey team," Notre Dame's Lefty Smith said. "And, of course, our series with them is important because they are making a serious bid for consideration in the NCAA tournament." 
Bowling Green also holds a slight 3-2-1 edge in its series with the Irish. Last season, the two games 

were as different as night and 
day. Notre Dame lost at Bowling 
Green, 9-5, before returning home 
to rout the Falcons, 9-3. 
Junior center Bob Dobek leads the Falcon attack. His 29 goals and 58 points are team highs, and the latter mark is within 10 points of the all-time Falcon scoring mark for a season. Already this season, Dobek has scored four hat tricks two of them four-goal games. ' 
Dobek's closest pursuers for team honors are sophomore center John Stewart and right wing Mike Bartley. Steward has 19 goals and 46 points while senior tri-captain Bartley has scored 18 and 43. Bartley also achieved the rare 200­point plateau four games ago and needs one more assist to join an even-rarer group,those with 100 goals and 100 assists. 
The rugged Bowling Green defe~se is not noted for its high­scorm~ frequency. Roger Archer, Al Le1tch and Kevin MacDonald have scored one goal apiece and 18, 15, and 13 points respectively, but each has accumulated 40 or more 
Ray Delorenzi 02) and Pat Conroy (9) seen here against Bowling Green last season, will meet the Falcons tonight in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
penalty minutes, with 
MacDonald's 92 the team's high. 
Two freshmen, AI Sarachman 
and Mike ~iut, tend goal, and 
Sarachman IS expected to receive 
the nod tonight from his coach to 
start against the Irish. 
Although the series will not do anything for Notre Dame in the WCHA standings, Smith hopes the Irish can iron out their defensive deficiencies as they prepare for the league's stretch run. 
As a result, Smith can be ex­pected to go with his regular lines and blueline pairings. That means Bill Nyrop will center for Ian Williams and Eddie Bumbacco Pat Conroy will center for Ray DeLorenzi and Larry Israelson and either Mike Tardani or Mark Olive will center freshmen Clark Hamilton and Alex Pirus. 
Bumbacco and Williams are each closing in on 200 points. Personable Eddie needs only one more point to make the elite list while tri-captain Willy must hav~ eight. Graduated centerJohnNoble holds the Irish career mark for scoring with 226 points. 
Paul Clarke and Steve Curry will make up the first defensive pairing, while Les Larson-Roger Bourque and Ric Schafer-Jack Brownschidle are the other duos in front of senior netminder Mark Kronholm. Don Smith will back up Kronholm. 
Both games can be heard over local radio outlets. WSND <Campus) will broadcast tonight's game and WNDU (1490) will carry both, with Friday's match also scheduled for a 7:30 p.m. start. 
In th~s _week's college hockey ~oil, Michigan Tech remained in first despite its split with the Irish last weekend: 
I. Michigan-Tecll (9) ( 16+2) ..... 99 
!. Denver ( 14-7-2) . . .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. 68 
· 3. New Hampshire (I) (13-5) ..... 65 
4. Wisconsin (13-11-2) .............. 51 
5. Minnesota (12-11-2) ............... 48 
I. Cornell (7-2-1) ................... 45 
7. Vermont(11-2) . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. 35 ~-Boston University (16-5)........ 30 
I. Michigan State ( 14-11-1) .. . .. . 23 ll Michigan (12-8-1) . . . . . . 15 


