--------~ 
---~ -----­
OD The Inside 
Homecoming 
... page 3 
Campus View 
... page 6 
Vol. IX No. 30 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday October 9. 1974 



Surtax of live percent 
•

Ford asks for tax 1ncrease 
BY GENE CARLSON 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -President Ford asked 

Congress Tuesday to combat inflation by enacting a 
one-shot tax increase of $4.7 billion on middle-class and 
wealthy Americans and corporations so the federal 
government will have to borrow less money. 
In a prepared address to a joint session of Congress, 

Ford also proposed tax cuts for poor Americans and for 
businesses which must expand to meet the needs of the 
energy shortage and take inflationary pressures off the 
economv. 
Effective for one year 
The proposed tax increases on individuals and corporations would be in effect only one year and would amount to a 5 per cent surtax on families ear­ning over $15,000 and single people earning over $7,500. 
A typical middle income family of four with $20,000 of taxable income would pay a surcharge of $128 on top of its normal federal income tax of $2,560. 
A single person with a taxable income of $10,000 

would pay a surcharge of $54.78 on top of his normal 
taxes of $1,95.50. 
Another goal was to cut oil consumption by 1 million 

barrels a day. The nation now imports 6.5 million 
barrels a day and consumes 16 million a dav. 

Public enemy 

"I say to you with all sincerity that inflation, our present public enemy will--unlessit is whipped--destroy our country, our homes, our liberties, our property, and finally our national pride--as surely as any well­armed wartime enemy," Ford said in the second ap­pearance of his young presidency before both Houses of Congress. 
Treasury Secretary Willian E. Simon told reporters Ford's foremost goals are to reduce inflationary rate from its current two-digit level to one-digit, but he refused to speculate how far it could actually be brought down even if all30 bills proposed by Ford were enacted. 
The President also proposed: 
--Helping business expand by increasing the 7 per cent investment tax credit to 10 per cent and a 4 per cent tax credit for utilities to 10 per cent. Using the tax credit, firms are permitted to subtract from taxes some of what they pay for new equipment or moder­nization. 
--Helping the unemployed with a 13-week extension of unemployment benefits and a community jobs program. Both would go into effect only if unem­ployment climbs--as is expectedc-in the coming months. The jobless rate rose by a sharp four-tenths of 1 per cent last month to 5.8 per cent. These new benefits could pump $2.25 billion into the economy. 
--Imposing a severe $300 billion ceiling on federal spending for the current fiscal year which ends next June 30, a hard-to-achieve cut of $6 billion in projected federal spending.
--Boosting hard-hit housing industry by extending government guarantees to $3 billion worth of con­ventional home mortgages--enough to finance the purchase of 100,000 houses. Conventional mortgages would also benefit by a small subsidy of interest rates. 
--Giving corporations more to spend on expansion by allowing them to deduct from taxable income the dividends they pay on certain preferred stock, a saving to businesses of $100 million. 
--Trying to make companies compete more intensely with one another by raising the penalties for violations of the antitrust laws if they conspire to fix prices. 
In the energy field, the President depended chiefly on an earnest appeal to all Americans to save fuel in every possible way and to combat inflation by cutting what they spend on food. 
But he did seek power to compel utilities to switch from oil to coal and he asked for relaxation of air pollution standards and for deregulation of natural 
gas--a nrices  step which economists say would send gas skyward.  
Little  steps help  

Little steps will help, the President said, and he appealed directly to every citizen to do his best. 
"Every housewife knows almost exactly how much she spent for food last week," he said. "If you can't spare a penny from your food budget, surely you can cut the food you waste by 5 per cent." 
Likewise, he asked motorists to reduce their driving by 5 per cent by carpooling, riding buses or bikes "or just plain walking." 
Ford acknowledged that he was asking Congress to do a politically dangerous act in raising taxes. 
"I'm aware that any proposal for new taxes just four weeks before a national election is-to put it mildly­considered politically unwise. I have been earnestly advised to wait to talk about taxes any time after Nov. 5. 
"But I will not play politics with America's future," the President said. 


0 verlooks steps 
He told Congress he had looked over what the government had done before to help the economy and those steps "are simply not good enough, nor suf­ficiently broad, nor do they pack the punch that will turn on America's economy." 
He appealed to the Democratic Cos to treat his proposals "in a considered package, in a conerted effort, in a grand design." 
But absent from Ford's speech was a somber rhetoric he had been using elsewhere in recent days to stress the worldwide dangers of inflation. 
Monday night at a political rally in Vermont, Ford said the "political fabric of this nation" and of the entire free world was at stake in the struggle to set right the economy. And Tuesday, at the White House, in welcoming Edward Gierek, Communist Party leader of Poland, Ford said, "The stability of the world is in danger." 
Ford's proposals grew out of intense consultatfons which have been occurring ever since he moved into the Oval Office two months ago and confronted an economy troubled from two directions--a stubborn inflation which started during the Vietnam War and a sluggishness which some economists say has already descended into a recession. 
In his speech, Ford said he wanted to zero in on lots of things the government itself does which drive prices up or make goods scarce or otherwise add to in­flationary pressures. 
He asked Congress to establish a National Com­mission on regulatory reform to re-examine federal "rules and regulations that increased costs ... without good reason." 
He also urged Congress to attach to every bill a 
"inflation impact statement" on what effect it would 
have on the economy. He said he would do the same 
thing for every bill he sends to Congress 

University announces 

Cushing renovation 
The University of Notre Dame today announced a renovation and expansion of its 41-year-old Cushing Hall of Engineering at a cost of between $1.5 and $3 million. 
In making the announcement, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, noted that $1.5 million had been accumulated for the project, in­cluding money raised for engineering facilities in the University's most recent formal development campaign, "Sum­ma," which ended in 1972. Father Hesburgh said the University would attempt to raise a matching amount from alumni and friends of the College of Engineering. 
The need for improved facilities for engineering education was recognized as early as 1967 and was cited again in the recent report of Notre Dame's Committee on University Priorities. Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, Dean of the College, said the renovation and expansion was a top priority of the engineering faculty and "is the first phase of a more extensive program needed to insure first rate classroom and laboratory facilities." 
One of the College's problems has been the fact htat its physical facilities are dispersed on campus. 
The Departments of Civil, Metallurgical, Electrical and some of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering are housed in Cushing Hall, as are the College's ad­ministrative offices, service machine shop and research library. Elsewhere on campus are Chemical Engineering Hall, built in 1920; the Mechanical Engineering Laboratory, built in 1941; the Aerospace Engineering Laboratory, constructed as a temporary building in 1945, and the Industrial Engineering Laboratory, equipped in 1972. The Department of Architecture is adequately housed, having taken over the old University Library in 1965. 
Hogan said that detailed plan­ning of the expansion and renovation would begin im­mediately with Ellerbe Ar­chitects-Engineers-Planners of Bloomington, Minn., who handled the recent renovation and ex­pansion of the Law School and remodeling of Haggar Hall for use by the Department of Psychology. 
The engineering education program at Notre Dame is the oldest at any Catholic universityand is currently observing its toOth anniversary. There are 88 faculty members in the College, which has a total of 783 sophomores, juniors and seniors enrolled, as well as 311 students in the University's Fresh­man Year of Studies who intend to major in engineering and 137 graduate students. 


Elton John to perform 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Elton John will perform in the Notre Dame ACC November 3, according to Student Union Con­cert Chairman Rob Kilkuskie and Concert Coordinator Pete Kernan. 
Tickets for the concert will go on sale Monday. October 21. at 9 a.m. 
in the ACC-Ticket Offic'e and the Student Union Ticket Office. All tickets in front of the stage will cost $7.50 and tickets behind the stage will cost $6.50. 
"All tickets will be sold at the box offices," Kernan stated. "Mail orders will absolutely not be processed." 
Kernan observed that South Bend oolicemen will assist in the orderly progression of ticket sales. "All disorderly persons will be removed and sent to the end of the line," he said. 
Performing with John will be Davey Johnstone on guitar, Dee Murray on bass, Nigel Olsson on drums and Ray Cooper with ad­ditional percussion. The Kiki Dee Band will open the show at 8 p.m. 
Kernan noted that Student Government has been negotiating with John's managers since last June. 'The concert will be spon­sored by the ACC with assistance from the Student Union. 
John's Notre Dame visit is 
preceded by his two-night stay in 
Chicago and is followed by a Nov. 4 
concert in Cleveland. Kernan said 
the Chicago concerts were sold out 
within 24 hours at considerably 
higher prices. 
The 12,400 tickets printed for the concert will exceed the record 12,300 printed for the Oct. 1 Elvis Presley show. Kernan emphasized that only the two ticket offices will be handling tickets for the concert. 
Yes plans revealed 
In other concert news, Kernan 
announced that tickets for the Nov. 
14 YES concert will go on sale 
Monday, Oct. 14, at 9 a.m. in the 
ACC and at 12:15 p.m. at the 
Student Union Ticket Offices. 
Tickets for YES will cost $6.50, 
$5.50 and $4.00. 
Kernan said tickets in all price 
categories for the Oct. 11 Gordon 
Lightfoot show are still available 
at the ticket offices. Tickets for the 
Oct. 17 John Sebastian concert are 
now on sale at the Student Union 
Ticket Office and in the dining 
halls. 
the observer Wednesday October 9, 1974 


warld briefs 
SANTODOMINGO UPI-Six guerrillas accepted the Dominican government's offer of safe conduct out of the country Tuesday night in exchange for the freedom of seven hostages held for the last 12 days in the Venezuelan consulate. The hostages were said to be 
"in good condition 0" 
WASIIINGTON UPI -· The Senate approved a compromise package of political reforms Tuesday which would give the Democratic and Republican presidential candidates $20 million each in taxpayer funds to wage their 1976 campaigns. 
The landmark legislation an aftemath of the Watergate scandals is certain to produce radical changes in American political cam­paigns. 
081.0 UPI -Former Japanese Prime Minsiter Wisaku Sato and former Irish Foreign Misnister Sean MacBride today shared the 1974 Nobel Peace prize for being instrimental in "contributing to peace in our time," the Norwegian Nobel committee announcec. 

an campus taday 
12:15 pm --seminar. "report on microbiology congress, tokyo," by dr. morris pollard, coffee and sandwiches In room 119, at 11:45, room 102, lobund lab, galvin life science center 
3:25pm--lecture, "the catalyzed ortho-para hydrogen conversion and magnetocatalytlc effects on euo and cro2," by dr. jose a. arias, room 269, chemical eng. bldg. 
4:30pm--faculty address, fr. hesburgh, washington hall. 
6:30 pm --"senior career planning series," 1st floor study lounge, mccandless hall. 
6:30pm--meeting, nd sailing lcub, room 204 eng bldg. 
7:00 pm --lecture, "Influence of eustatic sea-level changes on oil and gas accumulations In the appalachian basin," by dr. john m. sennlson, u. of north carolina, room 101, earth sciences bldg. 
7:30pm--american scene series, "beginnings: st. mary's," by sister m. raphaellta whalen, esc, carroll hall, madeleva memorial. 
8-9: 30 pm --open house, bulla shed. 
8:00pm --lecture, "human hopes In faces of limited resources," by joseph slttler, u. of chicago, room 278, galvin life sciences center. 
8:00pm --lecture, paul soglin, mayor of madison wise., washington hall. 
8:15pm--concert, "the music of India," by y.g. srlmatl, $1, library auditorium. 
11:00 pm --south quad liturgy, eucharistic liturgy, refreshments afterwards, fisher hall chapel. 
fl1 e M; i n ri e s o t a C I u b P r e s e n t s 
CARNAL KNOWLEDGE 
starring Ann-Margret Candice Bergen Jack Nicholson Art Garfunkel 
Wednesday, October 9th at 7, 9, and 1 1 p .m . Engineering Auditorium Donation $1 
~-·----------------~=-~~-2~------------~ 
I.U.S.B. STUDENT ASSOCIATION PRESENTS IN CONCERT 



THE ASSOCIATION 
DAVID FRYE SUNDAY NOV. 3 

8:00P.M 

~RIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE I.U.S.B. BOX OFFICE M-F 9-5, 6:30-8:00 
DAY CARE BENEFIT CONCERT 





fKIDAY OCTOBER II S-I1Jtn 
S~TIJNDIIY OCTQIIK ll llt~ll-mitllllfAt 
POLI!t-t t• US"ACE 
t RiSH FOLK DAMCi'W) OfLLY DAllfCiNG 
OLAC:K AATS D!SPLAV 
\iRIEK~ YKOANt~Jol J()U( DANC*IG 
KARAl£ tJ[h'o~&TrlATtCN CIRM41'4 tfaA GA~O£M.5 
PQLISH, HUNCAAiAN FOLk DAMeiMC: 
DAWCiNC UHDEn lH£ STAR~ HlCHTI.Y 1Jt0rt 7•" f ... 

The Civic Minded Shopping Center 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 
Student -Faculty ND-8MC Staff $1.50





THEATRE 
1974-75 Our Ninth Season 

LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGEL 

Oct.4,5, 10, 11, 12at8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 

Tickets still available 




Homecomingto be"unique" 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 

A walk down the midway at the Silver Beach amusement park will lead Homecoming Party couples into a cabaretlike atmosphere in a large, enclosed ballroom on the Lake Michigan shore. This Student Union-sponsored event will take place in St. Joseph, Michigan, this Saturday, Oct. 12. Music willbeginat 8:30p.m. (South Bend time). 
This year's party will be a little different from the armory partiesof the past, according to Social Commissioner Rich Guiltinan. "The Student Union wants the Homecoming Party to be a unique event. The word I'd use to describe it is intimate," Guiltinan ex­plained. 
The Social Commissioner called the ballroom a "large Stepan Center" and added that causal dress will be the attire of the night. 
The gala event, directed by John the week either in the dining halls Huneke, will feature the live band at dinner or at the Student Union WIND with music lasting until ticket office on the second floor of 
12:30 <South Bend time). 15kegs of the LaFortune Student Center b~r, 75 gallons of pink_ chablis, during regular hours. Guiltinan frmt, bread and cheese Will also be added that tickets for the Gordon served by_ ~h~ Student ~nion in Lightfoot concert and the Rice rooms adJommg the mam dance game are also available at the floor. Student Union ticket office during 
regular hours.
For those not planning to drive up to Silver Beach, 12 buses will 

Guiltinan was very optimistictake the couples up to St. Joes, that the party will be sold out. approximately an hour away. With a total of 500 tickets originally
The shuttle service will begin at available, the Social Com­
7:30 p.m. from the circle by the missioner guessed that about half 
Law Building, and continue until had already been sold. all buses have been filled, ac­"The tickets are slowly dwin­cording to Guiltinan. dling down. Usually people are 
The Social Commissioner undecided as to whether they are pointed out that because the going until the week before the 
distance up to the party site is so event. I think that we should sell far, no continuous shuttle will be the remaining tickets by Friday,"made back and forth. Buses will Guiltinan stated. return to Notre Dame between 
For those who will be driving tomidnight and one o'clock. 
the party, the directions are:Homecoming Party tickets will north on U.S. 31 through Niles andbe available for the remainder of Berrien Springs to U.S. 33; U.S. 33 into St. Joe, Michigan; left on Port 
St.. then one block up to State St.; right on State and follow winding
Alternatives to rule road over railroad tracks; road here called Broad St.,; follow Silver Beach sign to parking lot; ballroom is at far end of park.
discussed by HPC 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 

The alternatives to the present human sexuality rule, now being debated by the SLC Rules Com­mittee, were explained last night at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting by Frank Flanigan, SLC chairman. 
In addressing the HPC, Flanigan cited two alternatives that are being considered to the present Rule 8. Either the Rules Com­mittee will recommend that the University's views on pre-marital sex be expressed as a "statement of philosophy" only, without any stated restrictions, or else a more definitive University regulation, in which all possible consequences are explicitly stated. 
"I agree that it is the right of this Catholic institution to express its views on pre-marital sex. However, I think that in making the issue a statement of philosophy only it would serve the same purpose as the rule does now," he said. "The University should recognize the fact that students are responsible persons with a basically good moral background. The individual must make his own choice on the rna tter," Flanigan told the HPC. 
The SLC chairman also said that it is useless for the SLC to consult Fr. Hesburgh while writing up its recommendations. "That's taking away the purpose of the SLC if you go to an outside source, good as he 
Erratum 

Paul Soglin will not appear in the Library Auditorium tonight as stated in yesterday's Observer. His lecture will be at 8p.m. to night in Washington Hall. 
HARQ.D MEDOVV USED CARS AND TRUCKS 
•
LaFayette 

at LaSalle Phone 233-2139 
may be, to help write a possible rule revision," Flanigan stated. 
HPC Chairman Bob Howl blasted the increase in student basketball tickets, calling it "not fair to the students by any means." 
After discussion among the council, Howl announced that a "full and detailed explanation" by Don Bouffard, ticket manager,should be sought. 
Don Sullivan, from the Mardi Gras raffle committee, addressed the hall presidents concerning distribution of this year's raffle booklets. A quota will be given to each hall, with a guaranteed remittance to the hall for meeting their quota, Sullivan stated. 
Unlike past years, the student seller will not get any money back for selling chances; however, Sullivan pointed out that the money will be given to the halls instead, to do with it whatever the hall wishes. The books will be distributed within the next three weeks. 
The final business included an announcement by Howl that the United Fund drive will commence this weekend with shamrock sales before the game. Howl appealed to the presidents to help get the support of all the hall residents for this worthwhile cause. 


THINK. 

CQ.LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA 

Wednesday October 9, 1974 the observer 
THEATREIU2:15 Indiana University -South Bend 8:15 ~ PRESENTS tickets pm $1.50ATHURBER CARNIVAL' nckets at October 10, 11 1 12, 18 19, 20IUSB box office north side at. or call 237..4396 I greenlawn  
I Jl . _Foreign Car Parts· Co. ~@Parts & accessories f~r imported can · for all makes at lowest prices., Reaion•l Oistributor •********••••••***********·~For NO Students, Faculty & Staff 10 1 ~ *1per.cent discount with ID & pur-* tcha~e of $10 or more. .1 ************************~ 215 Dixie Way N Roseland· So. Bend  

WIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHII~ 
~ TOM'S UNIVERSITY STANDARD~ S 17993 STATE ROAD 23 272-0083 ~~ 5
I:::~::~::::::::.:::::::::::···-,.tftt, I 
= 
:_§  COMPLETE CAR CARE  .,.§_  
- FREE N.D. GLASSES WITH  FILL-UP  
5  10  PERCENT DISCOUNT TO N.D. & S.M.C. STUDENTS  E  

mllnnmnnmmmnmnllmmmmnnmllmqmmmllmummmmmmmnmllmmmnllmn-5 





Later Digger 
l>t>ar Editor: 
Attached is a letter we've written to basketball coach Digger Phelps. We feel we've captured some of the feelings present in the ('lass of 1975, and we hope you'll print our letter. We are student­atheletes here at Notre Dame, and for that reason alone we've decided not to sign the letter personally. Although corny, this h>tter can be useful. 
Thank you for your time and attention. Two conct>rned members of the Class of 1975 
October 8, 1974 
Dear Digger:
Remember freshman year when 
we were 6-20? It wasn't much fun, 
but we were there. 
How about sophomore year? 1-6, 
but we still believed. St. Patrick's 
Day at the NIT, a victory over 
USC--and we were there. 
And what can be said about last 
season? From UCLA to St. 
Francis, to Marquette, we were 
there. 
They were three great years, 
and you said it best at the circle 
when the student body greeted you 
after the NIT. Of course, we were 
there when you told us, "We've 
only just begun." 
Well, Digger, it's all over as the 
University yesterday told us $28 
for student tickets. 
Have a nice season, but 28 
dollars means we won't be there. 
Sincerely, 
Two Concerned Members of the ('lass of 1975 
Dear Editor: 
When I found out that the price of 
basketball tickets went up to $28, I 
decided to call Mr. Bouffard at the 
ticket office and ask some 
questions. Here is how the con­
versation went. 
Question : Why did the season 
package go up? 
Mr. B.. : Because the price of 
tickets went up.
Question: Why did the price.of 
tickets go up? Was there an In­
crease in cost? 
Mr. B.: Everything costs more; 
don't you read the papers? 
Question: Where have things 
gone up 100 per cent? Or is that 
just here? 
Mr. B.: Yes, that's just here. 
Question: You still haven't 
answered the question. Why did 
the tickets go up? 
Mr. B.: We felt a student paying 
$1 for a $4 seat just wan't right. 
Question: How would you like it if none · of the students went to the game? 
Mr. B. If none of the students went to the games, we could make a lot more money. 
Question: But isn't the basketball team supposed to en­tertain the students and not necessarily 1designed to make money?
Mr. B.: I disagree. 
Question: Well didn't the basketball team make money last year. 
Mr. B.: I am not privy to that information. 
This conversation, which I had 
leads me to accuse Mr. Bouffard 
and the people he represents of 
using the students and taking 
advantage of the campus situation. 
They intend to make students pay 
through the nose or give up support 
of their team. That is simply 
unfair and the student comes out 
on the short end either way. 
Michael Desposito 
415 Flanner 
An open letter to Don Bouffard: 
We were pleased and excited to note today that you, out of the graciousness of your heart, have granted us a 50 per cent discount in the price of basketball season tickets. We realize that this bold and courageous move of yours came on the heels of our good President's call for non­inflationary prices. 
However, good kind Mr. Bouf­fard, a freshman math major in our exemplary hall discovered that in actuality the student ticket prices have been raised 100 per cent over last year. Mr. Ford will clearly have trouble sleeping when he hears about this outrageous and unwarranted price gauging. 
In addition we are greatly distressed that our genious math major because of his distinction as a freshman may have to forego seeing our exciting basketball team because he was born a year too late. And Mr. Bouffard, community relations with St. Mary's will clearly not be helped by allowing only 278 tickets for the 1600 females, in that institution. 
Seriously, the members of Morrissey Hall hope that you will reconsider the 100 per cent in­crease and the restrictive allocation policies. By making what we consider to be an outrageous price increase, we fear many of us will be financially unable to purchase a student ticket. 
Mr. Bouffard you need to be reminded that our basketball team is not professional. It is made up of student-athletes who play for the benefit of the Notre Dame Com­munity. With a facility like the ACC we should all have the op­portunity to see OUR basketball team. 
MORRISSEY HALL 


To Instill Values 
Dear Editor: 
For too long now this university has set policies without fair notice to the student. One example is this year's schedule. Now the student must contend with the required values seminar for seniors. The administration must base its opinion of student reaction on the few "articulate" students who write for the school publications. Because these reporters ask their friends who by nature generally share the same beliefs, the opinions are of narrow scope. People with contrary beliefs to those established as norms here at Notre Dame have remained silent either because of peer group pressure or because of the fear of creating a bad name for oneself thereby risking a good recom­mendation for graduate school. 
First, this seminar should not be required. We all were informed that the only requirements we must fulfill were clearly stated in the Bulletin of Information printed in our respective freshman years. This is not the time to inform us of · new academic requirements. Besides, most seniors have already decided their final semester courses. With the in­creased tuition coming into effect next semester, this course rriay cause financial difficulties for some students. Now because the administration feels it doesn't know its student body, they are going to force us to get acquainted. Don't you think it's a little too late? 
Second, it is not a school's duty to form the value system of an in­dividual. In fact, it is an in­fringement of a personal freedom. If a student had not formed a moral code before he or she arrived at Notre Dame, then he or she must build one from the living situations in which he or she is placed (not only in the classroom). If any school has to have a course to instill its values on its student body, then it has already failed in this questionable goal. 
We're sorry Mr. Macheca and Fr. Burtchaell but Notre Dame has not changed us. We came here with a sound moral code and a value system that we've developed since before high school. And we didn't learn it in a classroom but by living. 
Bernard Probst Leonard Carnevale Class of '75 
Ieft in 1:11e lurch mmnmm1n1111nnmnmmmummn 
The Grads, part 2 
lllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiii~IHIIIHIIIIIIh Utah harman 
WeH, my first column on the grad students did not produce the results I had hoped for. Although I did receive quite a bit of positive verbal feedback, the letters were not forthcoming. I don't know exactly what the reasons for this are, perhaps grads are apathetic, illiterate, or just can't write anything less serious than a disser­tation. The only effect which could possible attributed to my column is that last week maintenance decided to clean the windows in Carroll Hall (although some denizens would have preferred caulking). All I can say is Thanks, guys, but that wasn't what I had in mind when I asked for a little bit more attention from the Ad­ministration. 
One problem concerning the graduate students here at du Lac has to do with the lack of a voice or spokesman for the grads. Granted it is would be difficult to be able to find a consensus among grads on any one topic (grads are a lot more heterogeneous than undergrads) and not that it would probably have much of an effect on anything, it still might be nice to have some sort of grad voice which could at least be heard by the Powers That Be. As it is there exists no counterpart of the SLC or HPC in the graduate sphere, and there is a need. 
A graduate politic could more than earn its keep just by bringing the more usual graduate problems to the attention of the Po~ers That Be, and being persistent about it. Such a person-body mi~ht accomplish something in the area of a change in dorm allocation for grads or at least an improvement in the dorms which the grads are stuck in like merely arranging for the installation of drinking fountains. More importantly, it could make sure the voice of grad students was heard on the policy-making level of the University, an area where there is currently no representation. 
The clearest example of the latter is the calendar dispute of last year. Obviously such an early start would stand to affect the grad just as much as the undergrad and although the grads account for a least 15 per cent of the student body, in the dispute they were conspicuous only by their absnece. Such a situation is hardly defensible. 
There do, of course, exist several candidates which could and can represent the grads in areas of this sort, but none of them appear to have the inclination to fill the shoes. To wit: 
1) The Graduate Student Union. This organizationsdoes indeed exist, although no one has heard from i~ this _year. In fact, ma!lyfirst year grads had not even heard of It until they learned of Its existence in the last 'Grad' column. The GSU has been charged with improving the social aspects of the graduate student~ m?re than acting as the official political organ of the grads. Considermg the lousy job they do with the former, maybe we're lucky they don't try the latter. Unfortunately, the GSU appears to be the best chance for a grad student voice we have. 
2) The Rectors of the Grad Dorms. It might be expected that Frs. Austgen <Brownson), and Weiher (Carroll) or Sr. Garlo~k (Lewis) would occasionally go to bat for the grad students. This does ~ot appear to be the case. Without doubting their concern for: ~he In­dividual grad, they seem to disdain any aspect of grad politics, or any attempt by grads to make themselves felt by the Ad­ministration. The rectors of Brownson (better known as the Dorm with the Paper-Thin Walls) and Lewis have an orientation to~~rd the religious in their halls rather than toward ~rad politics (pointing up the Administration's hand-me-down attitude tow~rd grad housing). A don't-rock-the-boat-or-make-a-lot-of-noise philosophy is prevalent at Carroll. 
3) The Observer. The Observer is for all practical purposes the forum --spokesman of the undergraduate student body. It highlights undergrad affairs, airs undergrad opinion, and cham­pions undergrad causes. Unfortunatley, like almost any _other institution, it ignores the graduate. By far the largest portion of this blame can be placed at the Observer's door, but no small fault rests with the grads who seem unwilling to make use of the paper Oike the letters column, hint hint). 
Thus we find a need for a graduate student political force, some process by which the grads can make themselves felt. The traditional institutions have either failed or been unwilling to try, leaving the grad· effectively in the lurch, a situation all too likely to 


DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 


continue. 

the observer 
Night Editor -AI Rutherford Ass't Night Editor . Ginny Faust Copy Reader . Ken Bradford Day Editor -George Vecclch Editorials -Ken Girouard Features -J. R. Baker Sports -Greg Corgan, Bob Kissel Typists -Jim Landis, Don Roos, Camille 
Arrieh, Neil VIII, Karen Hlnks Compugraphic Operator -M. J. Foley Picture Screener -Albert D'Antonio Night Controller -Howard Halle 
Secretary's of the Day: Howard and Tom 

---·-----------­
Wednesday October 9, 1974 the observer 
5 

feet off the groundI 



by mary pat sullivan 

It all takes place on O'Laughlin stage with chairs instead of bars and a grin on the next face in place of a mirror. People come in dressed in all different costumes. One wears a smock over shorts, others cut-offs and T -shirts; some dress all in black while a few have the regulation pale pink tights and shoes. 
The first task is to find something to hang on to -whether it's a metal chair, a card table, or a cement block wall doesn't really matter. The intended support is fully grasped, the first vigorous notes of the piano sound, toes out, heels in, and the demi-plier 
<pronounced plee-ay) begins. 
The aim is to stretch and then relax the muscles, to develop a flow of movement so that not one fraction of a beat is wasted in stillness. A far distant goal is grace proceeding from what has finally become control. The demi-plier (in rapid suc­cession) becomes the grande-plier; heels are allowed off the floor and the knee bends deepen. 
This up and down movement ("pull up, relax down") is the first type in a sequence of increasing complexity. Soon one ex­tended leg is in concert with a balancing act in the other. Finally a series of jumps, toes pointed in the air, are accomplished with loud panting and the repeated thump of a heavy landing. So ends the day's ballet class. 
Last year some St. Mary's students began taking ballet classes in town, and tried to organize a group to get together and dance on campus. For years amateur or would-be amateur ballet dancers at both St. Mary's and Notre Dame have been asking about the possibility of a ballet class being worked into the curriculum. Finally, last year, a group of students and a representative of the ND-SMC Speech and Drama Depart­ment both approached St. Mary's ad­ministration with the request, and someone acted. 
Ballet classes are now offered in the Speech and Drama Department. Dr. Bain, Dept. Chairman, says that ideally dance should have a department of its own but that Drama is willing to take on the respon­sibility of developing it. He mentioned that Charles Ballinger, an acting and mime teacher in the department is "very physically oriented" in his approach to 
Mr. Andrew McKim, a likeable, good­natured Scotsman, can be found any day of the week in his job at the Ave Maria Press. ~h;s is his main job here at the University of Notre Dame, but he also performs another essential job on football weekends. Mr. McKim is the Director of Stadium Per­sonnel, an important position in the organization of a home football game. Under his command are all the ushers, gatemen, and parking attendants. These men are found in and around the stadium-­over 700 in all. 
This organization of stadium personnel was started by a man named Bill Duley, forty-three years ago. A man with a great love for Notre Dame, Mr. Duley felt that with a new 59,000 seat arena being built, it would help greatly if there were trained men to control the expected swarm of people and automobiles. After discussing the idea with Knute Rockne, Mr. Duley 
/-· 

drama. Movement is an essential part of acting, so that the art of ballet is a fine corrolary to that of drama. 
Dr. Bain would like to see an expansion of the arts on both campuses and says "We're going to learn alot this year about interest and how this can be structured next year." He speaks of first developing the ballet program within the already existing program of speech and drama. The department is now set up with con­centrations in various areas, so the first project will be to develop a concentration in dance. 
The bars and the mirrors, although or­dered weeks ago, still haven't arrived, but this is a minor problem and no one's getting discouraged. Says Dr. Bain, "The first year we have to go through growing pains." 
But Marsha Maurer and Christopher Stygar have arrived. Ms. Maurer, with exquisite movement that defies imagination, demonstrates for the class and expects to be imitated. Mr. Stygar's task is coordinating the exercises, often counting out loud (and-one-and-two-andthree-and­four) and generally keeping up the pace of the class so that everyone is given the op­portunity to at least test his or her limit of physical endurance. 






the weekend job 
/( 

that all must wear a coat and tie -absolutely no exceptions. The folder also tells him where he may park his car, and how to handle.the eighteen different types of ticket he may come across, everything from student tickets to gold ribbon badges. It also tells him where he can find telephones, firemen, policemen, first aid help, and any othertype of emergency apparatus that received permission to build the organization that still exists today under Mr. McKim and his assistant, Mr. Arthur James. 


Although his full time job is with the Ave Maria Press, Mr. McKim must still devote a good deal of his time to his work with stadium personnel. The football season doesn't begin until September, but his work begins in February, when he starts looking for new people to replace those who will not be returning from the previous year. Any aspiring usher, gateman, or parking at­tendant may apply via a recommendation from someone presently in the organization. 
Then Mr. McKim and Mr. James in­terview thesd men over the next few months to decide if they would capably fit the mold of stadium personnel. 
In July, Mr. McKim checks by mail to see who will be coming back from last year's squad. A deadline for them to reply is set in early August. Once he sees how many men are returning, the remaining spaces are filled from among the new applicants. During the first week of September, two meetings are held -one for just the new men, and another for · everyone involved. Soon after this each man receives an orange instruction folder by mail. 
This folder is the stadium personnel 
man's "Bible", for, besides serving as an 
J.D. card, it tells him practically everything he needs to know about his job. It tells him where to report for duty, and reminds him 
The first afd room is an interesting story, for in it we find the first -and only woman in the stadium personnel organization. Her name is Debbie Siwek, and she writes up the injury reports on anyone who enters. Orginally, the two doctors on duty did this, but when their reports were handed in the next day, no one could read their hand­writing. During the week, Miss Siwek is a secretary for the Ave Maria people. 
On the Sunday before the first home game, the men all meet to pick up their caps, the only real uniform clothing they have. A deposit is put down on these caps, which serve as quick identification, both to the stadium patrons and each other. The work begins in earnest at 4:00p.m. on the Thursday before opening day, when Mr. McKim meets with his superior, Business Manager of Athletics Robert Cahill. Any new instructions are passed along to the supervisors in a meeting they have at 7:00 
p.m. on Friday. Both of these meetings are held before each game. 
There are fifteen supervisors in all, and these men can be easily identified by the gold caps that they wear. Each of these supervisors is in charge of four sections and two gates at the stadium, with the exception of two who are in charge of the parking areas, two in the field seats, and one in the press box. Each section has both a captain and a junior captain, who can be distinguished by the white caps they have. Counting these men, there are twelve ushers per section. Each gate, except for the two large main gates, has five gatemen, one of whom is in charge, also with a white cap. The large gates have double this manposer. 
On game day, the men are told to show up no later than an hour and a half before kickoff, but many arrive as early as 7:00. At 
10:45 a.m. a stadium inspection is held, and the men literally turn the building inside­
Ms. Maurer and Mr. Stygar love to teach ballet, and happened to send their resumes to the St. Mary's Music Deppartment around the same time Dr. Bain was looking for teachers. They also dance professionally -recently with Ballet West in Salt Lake City and currently with In­dianapolis Ballet Theatre. They live in Indianapolis and spend Tuesdays and Thursdays at St. Mary's. They are both enthusiastic about the interest in dance that they've found here, and impressed with the way students in their classes have been able to take corrections and work wih them. The majority of their students, they say, have already improved. 
Chances are that no large number of professional dancers will develop from a group of students who begin dancing ballet on the college level and work only two days a week. Ballet is best learned when it can be practised every day and the muscles begin to function automatically .. But Mr. Stygar doesn't see this as a necessary drawback for the program. Ballet, he says, is the best form of physical training, and allows for the development of "maximum control with maximum freedom" in any individual who works at it. And there is the possibility that St. Mary's will eventually have an in­dependent dance program. 'This would be designed to encourage ballet dancers to come here and develop a familiarity with art, music, and theatre as well as excellence in dance. 
The program as it is right now though, is certainly more than the path to physical fitnesF for an adventurous few. Anew art form is taking root within the reach of all of us, and hopefully our appreciation of ballet can grow along with its availability for instruction. 
The Cincinnati Ballet Company will soon perform both classical and modern works in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The perforamance is sponsored by the Dance and Drama Series of the Cultural Arts Commission, and will be at 8:00p.m. on October 21. Tickets are $3.50 for adults and $2.50 for students and will be on sale. starting October 9. This group will be magnificent. They will per­form for us, and handle all the demi-pliers and toe pointing for this one night at least while we're still getting our feet off the ground. 
by rrork jahne 
good working order. Any litter, broken phones, overflowing garbage cans, or other such problems are ~oted and, if possible, corrected by game time. Mter the game, the men must stay for another hour and a half, until all the fans are gone and­everythine that needs to be is locked up. !h~ supervisors then report in writing any mc1dents that happened to Mr McKim, who files a written report to Mr. Cahill the next day. 
What I have described is the part that we, the fans, do not see -the hours of preparation that these men put in so that they are ready to help us in any way they can. It is important to note that this job is done strictly on a volunteer basis, for there is no pay. These men do it while at the same time holding down a full time job. Their only reward is a chance to see the game for free -provided that they're not busy aiding someone, which obviously takes priority. They willingly do their job, even if it means missing the winning touchdown because they are helping a sick man find his way to the first aid room. 
These men are out there to help all of the fans to enjoy the game as much as possible. This is their source of pride and satisfaction. 
The instructions to all stadium personnel on the back of their information folders sums up their job quite well: "Be prompt...Be alert...Be informed...Be courteous...Be helpful." 



uncommon 

glimpses 


might be reauired. out to make sure everything is clean and in
<Photo by Anne Peeler) 


6 
the observer Wednesday October 9, 1974 

Of Compusview 

Students await co1npletion 
by Matt Yokom they will not be asked to pay students would probably be in Staff Reporter twice." He also indicated that Campusview by the end of the students do not have to pay the month and some more will be 
Students living in Stoneridge higher rent normally charged for moving in within a week. Garden Apartments and Stoneridge, but only the rate theyTownhouses, while waiting for signed for with Camousview. "We are trying to eliminate 
their Campusview apartments to construction around the buildings be completed, are confused as to Mrs. Barber only stressed that that will be occupied" Kleiser whom they should give their rent. 'the students will have a place to continued. "The first completed 
The confusion is a result of a stay and need not worry." She building with students in it was change in the management of the wished not to be quoted on any finished except for some details Stoneridge apartments. The other aspects of the situation other that are being attended to."· Crestwood Management and than saying that "both Cam­Development company, which pusview and Stoneridge are trying Kleiser co-ncluded that "We owns Campusview, managed to take care of the boys." won't have that problem in the Stoneridge until Octob Oct. 1 when other units. In the first building
Clinton Gibler, a senior

Mr. and Mrs. Lu Barber took over. problems arose that couldn't be
engineering student living at

Since that time some students have anticipated."
Stoneridge, expressed his concern
written checks out to Stoneridge ail to the legal rights of the students One of the first Campusviewand some have made them out to 

Campusview as they had done living at Stoneridge while under occupants Senior Marketing major
two different managements. He 

John O'Brien who said "At firstpreviously. Both sets of managers felt that "in spite of reassurances many things weren't installed, butbelieve that they should receive from management, that there is only during the first two weeks."
the rent. 

some doubt of their creditability O'Brien also indicated that his rentCrestwood General Manager, because of past assurances that was reduced to make-up for the.Joseph Kleiser said when his firm Campusview would be finished inconvenience. He felt that in
terminated management of 
earlier." Gibler hoped that the 

spite of the continuing con­Stoneridge, a condition of their University would "get into the struction, "it isn't too bad."
agreement was that students 
problem and see what could be
would continue to pay Cam­done." Junior Sociology major Mikepusview. Kleiser stated that th€ Isban still lives at Stoneridge andmatter was turned over to their Kleiser stated that presently "32 he indicated that he has had someattorneys but "there is no law units were occupied and another 24 disappointments, besides thesuit." 

units will be ready in a week to ten confusion about the rent. He citedKleiser said that the situation days." He indicated that all the poor response to service"will noo affect the students at all; requests and the ambiguity of the final construction date as the major cases. Isban did feel that although further from campus that "we have received equal or better 
ACE SAYS: 


facilities." 
FIGS KEEP CAROL MORE REGULAR, 

Gibler also indicated that he and
BUT SHE REALLY NEEDS A DATE­

his roomates were generally
SOMEONE PLEASE CALL HER ON HER BIRTHDAY (TODAY!!!)-1325 

pleased with their present apart­ment, and that they had received their utilities free. He felt that "since the Campusview people have bent over backwards, while in a tough position, we hate to be obstinent. But we want to move into our apartment." 
WEEKENO JOB . Indiana's Largest La~e Developer­Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends 
Thru October Near Lake. Wawasee. 
Gas Paid. Free, Housing. Minimum'$50 CALL C. STONE (2)9}63(>-7189
'•··········-···························.....····:
:: IVJICHIGAN STREET. :i ADULT THEATRES 

: X 2 F1L:MS : 
: X BOOKSrCH: : 
: .X LIVEFtCXESHOW : :• 1316 SCXJTH MICHIGAN STREET : • • 


i.~.~-~!1:.1.1J!~.fQ!.l~~QRMATJ9n~ 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun.. except home football game weekends. 


HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 

Cable T.V., Air Cond.1 _Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 

;; . 








HOMECOMING 
PLENTY OF FOOTBALL & HOMECOMING PACKAGES AVAILABLE AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
FRIDAY 
SATURDAY 
PEP RALLY 7:00 N.D. vs. RICE 1:30 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT 8:30 

ICKETS AVAILABLE AT STUDENT rUNION TICKET OFFICE & A.C.C. 


CABARET PARTY ST. JOE, MICHIGAN 
BUSES LEAVE CIRCLE BEGINNING AT 7:30 $6.00/COUPLE MUSIC BY WIND 
CASUAL DRESS COME AS YOU ARE 


--------------~-~---­
-----l 
Wednesday October 9, 1974 the observer 
7 
Beginning of Nov. 
CILA sells Xmas cards 
money allocated by the University. 

Members work with the day care Because this is not enought tocenters, nursing homes, and the meet the expenses of their
retarded. They offer their hlep to the community and run some 
52980 
presents 
frig~t aroa. overland Stage co. 


everything from down-home b I u e g r a s s t .o c o n t e m p o r a r y r o c kl 
BEGINNING OCTOBERS'-3 SHOWS 
N~GHTLY FROM 9:00-2:0_0 

SUNDAY FROM 8:30-12:00 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH USTHIS WEEKEND AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound, and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money, too. over the increased air fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 

GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE-ROUND-YOU CAN YOU TO WAY TRIP LEAVE ARRIVE Chicago 5.50 10.45 9:25 A.M. 11:20 A.M. Cleveland 14.85 28.25 8:55 A.M. 4:15P.M. Pittsburgh 22.20 42.20 2:30 P.M. 1:40 A.M. Detroit 11.55 21.95 10:35 A.M. 4:45 P.M. Milwaukee 9.20 17.50 2:00P.M. 6:15P.M. Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 
210 W. Monroe St. 287-6541 





GO GREYHOUND 
...and leave the driving to us® 

programs the christmans card sales have been conducted for several years. 
This year's goal is to sell 40,000 Christmass cards according to Sue Caranci. financial director of . 
CILA. "Meeting the goal would 
give us about $3,000," Caranci 
noted. . '" .
This year, the emphasiS oi the sales will be concentrated on campus. A member of CILA will be assigned to each dorm so as many students as possbible can be contacted. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

Need a ride for semester break? Wilson driveaway has cars going to many spots in the U.S. and your only expense is gas. For info call Jim Scott, 1694. 
Due to an abundance of cars going to Miami, special offers including partial or complete gas allowances are being made. Check it out. 
Take Greyhound non-stop from ND Circle to Chicago every Friday at 4:40. Call Tom Boyer at 272-1807. 
TICKETS FOR THE OCTOBER 20 AEROSMITH & MAHOGANY RUSH CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
Legal problem, but no money? 
N.D. Legal Aid can help. Call 283­7795, M-F, 1-4 p.m. 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS ARE NO ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFOR­TUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER ARE 12:15-5:00 MWF, AND 11:00-1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TT. 
$ Irish Lampoon is now accepting articles, stories, cartoons. For info, ca II 272-8724 between 9 & 11 :30 p.m.$ 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND ­NOW AVAILABLE FOR DAN­CES, PARTIES, AND PRE-GAME PERFORMANCES. CALL 272-9895 AFTER 7:00 FOR IN­FORMATION. 
Will do typing, term papers, etc. Call 233-4487. 
I am doing a paper on Death. If you have ever had an experience very close to death (i.e., you life passing before you, etc.) and wouldn't mind being asked a few questions, call Joe, 3663. 
Pittsburgh Mid Semester Buses . those who missed the sign up on Sunday can still sign up this week by coming to 1118 Grace Hall or by calling John..;J251. 
WANTED 

Need 2 GA tix to Miami game. Call 683-5362 after 6:00 p.m. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Miami game. Call Jim, 3805. 
Needed desperately: 2 GA tickets to Miami. Call Tom, 8398. 
Need ride to N.J. tor Oct. break . badly. Will share expenses. Call Kit, 6972. 
House Parents Wanted. Full time live-in or part time live-out. Girls group home. Near downtown So. Bend. Excellent experience OP· portunity for students 'in Soc., Psych., or related fields. Salaried. Married couple (no children) or 2 women. Girls are 14-17 yrs. Eight is capacity. Reply to Mrs. Carol Wilken, 233-9491. 
Desperately neeci' ride ro Boston area for Oct. break. Call Jim, 8439. 
f'ileed ride to NY City weekend of Oct. 11, 12 13. Will share expenses. Call Dave, 1197. 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS VVITHOOT WHEELS? When In Need Of A Quick Getaway, 
Call Lois At 

JORDAN FORD 
259-1981 
STUDENT RATES: Rent A PINTO"' For :Just 
l . 

$5/Day & 9/Mile-(MIN~ AGE 2l) 
609 E. JeHerson, Mishawaka 
Need GA tickets for Rice, Army, or Miami. Call 288-3176. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: Whittenauer gold ladies' wristwatch. Lost between Morris Inn & Dillon. Call 7181. 
Lost: gold ring. Initials J.M.A. Call 3336. Big reward. 
Found:.car keys at O'Shag Tues. afternoon. Call 6917. 
Found: one male dashchund Thurs. nite. Owner please claim. Call Observer at 8661 or Mary at 4167. 
Found: one electric Timex watch and one gold bracelet. Can be picked up at the Lost & Found counter, Memorial Library. 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO MIAMI GAME. CALL DR. MAISON, AT 272-9895 BETWEEN 7:00 AND 9:00 P.M. 
Earn up to $1200 a school year hanging posters on campus in spare time. Send name, address, phone, & school to: Coordinator of Campus Representatives, P.O. Box 1384, Ann Arbor, Mich. 48106. 
Need ride to Minneapolis-St. Paul or Madison for Oct. 25 break. Call John at 1184. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Pitt. Tom, 288-2613. 
Wanted: ride to Purdue, Oct. 11, 
12. Call Joe, 1767. 
Need 4-6 tix for any home game except Army. Will trade with 4 Army tix. Call Becky, 8154. 
Ride wanted to CALIFORNIA during Oct. break. Call Tom, 3191. 
Desperately need two GA tix for Army. Call Rahj, 1612. 
Wanted: 4 Rice tickets, student or GA. Call 4774. 
Wanted: 4 Army GA tix. Call John or Kathy, 282-1568. 
Wanted: 1 Rice ticket or else. Call me now. 284-4371. 
Help! The clan is making its first trip ever to ND! Desperately need GA Pitt tickets. Call 3665. 
Wanted: May Fair Rest W3iters, 5­10-11 p.m. Part time or full time. Must be 21. $1.25 plus tips. 255-517. 
Need 4 GA tix for Pitt game. Call Mary Beth, 4704. 
Need ride to Boston for Oct. break. Call Tim, 8591. 
FOR RENT 

Modern executive 2-bedroom cottage located on 30 wooded acres of St. Joseph River frontage and Orchard Hills Golf Course. Win­terized cottage also features large fireplace, wall-to-wall carpeting, fully equipped kitchen, and riding horses. Perfect for out-of-towners on Notre Dame football weekends with only a 20-minute ride to the stadium. $150 per week. Call 616­695-6043. 
Rooms for rent: 1 or 2 singles, off­campus. 1021 DeMaude. Con­venient location, good neigh. borhood. $55 mo.. incl. utilities. Ca II 232-2773. 
1 single, $55 mo. Includes rent, utilities. One block from grocery, laundry, bakery. Call 232-2773. 
FOR SALE 

Tl 2550 calculator. Call Fred, 288­5646. Keep calling. 
For sale: 6-strlng acoustic guitar with case. Excellent cond. $75. Call Tom, 1409. 

FOr Sale: 1 Rice G. A. tix. Blll--3058 
----I>'ER'SoNP.Ts__

_  
To the Sensuous Player: Happy Birthday! Pradler Saggen 9  Ping  Pong  

EILEEN: May your burps forever be hic­cups. may your soul find eternal immortality, and may your I.O.'s tor S.L. Bod be Reai-O's. Happy 
Birthday, Obee. 
Love, Bruce, Mellon, K.T. Shorty, and your partner in the pursuit of Platonic Peace. 
Lady: When smoke gets in your eyes it will be me. More love to come . 
Smokey 
Due to the current warming trend Carol Guckert's hair will not be frosted today. 
Rosemary: Feliz natal a Ia reina de Long Island. Yburna Soertte. 
Hub 
Peg or Sue going south as far as Daytona Beach. If you have room left please call Rex at 3510. 
MEN-WOMEN: Jobs on ships! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. SEAFAX 
Dept. G-13 
P.O. Box 2049 
Port Angeles, Wash. 9832. 
The Fightin Scrunge Unit lifts a cup of Ovaltine to the memory of 
Bob Rienan. 
In Flanner 4B there's a head, Whose intimates call him Big Red, But meetings with Moose, Have since cooked his goose, So now Big Red's head days are dead. 
Nuts and the Night Owl 
Shady Lady O'Grady: Mea culpa, mea culpa. Wrong day and bad night. 
The Penitent Pervert 
Mary Ellen Mosher, Admit it. You're just plain jealous! "Baby Face" 
Dear Eileen, Happy Birthday. Come on, tell the truth. Are those really hiccups? 
Your Roomie 
To the Ace-based 4th corner suite (yeah, you babies): We called Thad and he referred us to you. Hmmm ... Submit a bid. 
Two-in-waiting 
JORDAN 



FORD 
~ 

.. 
by Doug Meyers Staff Reporter 

The annual Christmas card sales to raise money for CILA will be held for one week in the beginning of November. Money raised by the sales will help support CILA 's many community projects. 
CILA the Council for the In­ternational Lay Apostolate, is a service organization affiliated with the Catholic Church. It responds to the needs of the community. 
programs of their own like tutoring sessions. 
CILA also extends its service to theirsummer projects. Members volunteer to work on projects to help underpriviledged people in different parts of the country. Some of these regions are Ap­palachia, Panama, Mexico. New Orleans, and mid-western Indian. reservations. 
Like all clubs CILA receives 


the observer Wednesday October 9, 1974
8 

leers ready for October opening 

by Bob Kissel Coach Smith has many hols holes to fill, left by a heavy graduation last May. 

Recently varsity hockey coach Gone are Eddie Bumbacco, Bill Charles 'Lefty' Smith has sounded Nyrop, Ray DeLorenzi, and Mark much like an advertisement for a Kronholm, all players who could new detergent product. Blurbs like score or prevent a score almost at "new and improved" or " a whole will. different look" are common The talent returning for Smith is around the ACC ice rink. certainly not to be underestimated. 
"Lefty' Smith is not in the Veterans•; like Pat Conroy, Jim business of selling soap, but Augustine, 'Moose' Novits){i, and winning hockey games. On Sep­Les Larson all have valuable tember 8th the 1974-75 edition of experience needed to withstand the Fighting Irish ice hockey opened pressures of the the race for WCHA practice with 61 returning playoff berths. Any team that monogram winners, junior varsity overlooks Smith's core of hop<'fuls, freshman recruits, and sophomores will be left short at the walkons vying for the varsity final horn. Returning with more squad. maturity and plenty hockey sense 
But what is the "whole different are sophs Clark Hamilton. Alex look" about the Irish hockey team. Pirus, Brian Walsh, Jack "The attitude this season is Brownschidle, Roger Bourque, and completely different than last Paul Clarke. vear." explained Coach Smith, "We're going to be a full team ;'evf'ryone connected with the last operation this cason," vear's team felt we were too good a remarked former blueliner i:Iub to have that kind of season Smith. "Our squad will be skating (14-20-2 overall, 11-16-1 in the team; emphasizing a go-go WCHA). This changed attitude movement on the whole shift. With
... 
gets better with each practice. The our good physical size, the game guys are really pushing them­plan will be to control the flow of selves to get into top skating play by aggressive forechecking shape." and backcheckim!." 

Buckeyes still No. 1 

Ohio State tightened its grip as the No. 1 choice in both the Associated Press and United Press International polls. The Buckeye!i, after a 42-7 trounce of Washington State, had 33 first place votes to Oklahoma's 24 in the AP poll, while they took 32 of a possible 35 top-ranked votes in the UPI poll. 
The Sooners are ignored by the UPI coaches poll because they are probation by the National Collegiate Athletic Association. 
Alabama and Michigan stayed t in their third and fourth postions in the AP rankings. 'Barna defeatedMississippi35-21 and pulled down one first place and 958 points . The Wolverines received two first place votes and also 893 points following their 27-16 victory over Stanford last Saturday. 
The final first pace vote went to lOth ranked Auburn who b~mped previously ranked Miami of Floridaout of the top twentyby defeatmg the Hurricanes 3-0. 
Notre Dame rose from seventh to sixth on the merit of a 19-14 triumph over Michigan State in the AP poll. The Irish received 485 points, just ahead of rival Southern Cal. In the UPI poll of coaches the Insh dropped from last week's 6th place to their current 8th place standing 
AP Poll UPI Poll 
Th<• As.'iOCiat<>d Pn•ss Top Twenty 
NEW YORK (UPI)-The 1974 Unit­coUrgP football poll. with first-plan• ed Press International Board of Coach­votPs m parPnthrS(>s, Sl'ason n•cord and 
es top 20 maJor coUegr footbaU ratingstotal pomts. Pomts tabulated on basis of with won-lost r<>rords and first place ~tll-11>-14-12· tl}-9-11-ptc.: 
\'Otes m parenthf'ses:1. Oh10 St. (33) 4-0-0 1.144 
T~am Polats2 Oklahoma (24) 3-1}0 1.124 
1 Ohio St. (32) 4-0 3473. Alabama ( 1) 4-0-0 95!! 
2. Alabama (2) 4-0 3004 MIChigan (2) 4-0-0 ~3 3. MIChigan ( 1) . .4-0 278 ~-Nebraska 3-1-0 fill4 4. Nebraska 3-1 2226 Notre Dame :\-1-0 4!15 
~-Flonda 4-0 1467. So. C'al. 2-1-0 431 6. Auburn 4-0 125K Flonda 4-0-0 418 7. Texas Tech 3-0-1 122 
9. Trxas TPch 3-0-1 411 K. Notre Dame .... 3-1 121 10. Auburn ( 1). 4-0-0 395 9. Southern California ....2-J 85 
11 N. C'ar St. :;.o-o 327 
10 North Carolina St. . . :;.o 46 12. Arizona 4-0-0 229 11 Wisconsin .3·1 4213. Wisconsin 3-1-0 174 
12. Arizona . .4-0 2314 Arkansas ...3-1-0 13.1 
13. Penn State 3-1 17 
1~. Prnn State 3-1-0 9H 14. Kansas 3·1 16 16 Texas A & !'d 3-1-0 95 15. Arkansas .3-1 10 
17 Texas .3-1-0 71 16. TiP Texas 3-1 H 
18. Arizona St. 3-1-0 51 Tie Texas A&M .. .3-1 8 
19. Kansas 3-1-0 34 
Tie UCLA ... 2-1-1 8 :!0 M1ami, Ohio .3-1}1 :!0 
19. Anzona State .. 3-1 3 Others receiving vot~s. listed alpha­:!0. Tie Baylor . ... 2-2 2 bl>ticaUy: Clemson, Illinois, Maryland, Ti~ Tulane. .. 3-0 2 Miami of Florida, MISSOuri, North Car­
olina, Oklahoma State, Ptlt. Temple, 
T~nnrs.o;ee,_ Tulane, UCLA. 

FCA to meet Thursday evening 

The Notre Dame chapter of the Fdlowship of Christian Athletes (FCA l will meet Thursday evening 
THE
in the St. Edward's chapel at 7:00 PM. Officers for the school year were recently elected. Jim Earley 

W:INERY
will serve as captain, Steve 
Lopardo as so-captain, Mark 

2426 LINCOLNWAY WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA
Wurfel and Dave Kiel as co­
TELEPHONE ~~ 
.administrators , and Jim Rinehart as club treasurer. All the Finest European Cheeses 

Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods
Phelps slates BB 
Oriental Cooking Ingredients 
Cheese & Fancy Fu0d


tryouts forTuesday 
10 o~·Discount to Faculty & Students 
Tryouts for the 1974-75 varsity 
French Bread & Croissants 

basketball team will be held Tuesday October 15. 
New York Cheesecake Greek Olives

All interested persons should 
Teas

report to the ACC basketball arena before 4:00. Players should bring their own equipment. 
Before the Irish open October 18th in an exhibition game against defending NCAA champs Min­nesota, Lefty must make a decision-a big decision about goal tending. Mark Kronholm, regular goal tender the past two years, graduated last May and left a 4' by 6' hole to fill. 
The game of hockey, on any level, begins at the goal and works out. The competition for the two varsity netminding positions is wide open among junior Thorn McCurdy, soph Dave Caron, fresh­man Len Moher, and rookie John Peterson, possibly the most highly recruited goalie in North America. 
"Competition breeds good work and good work we are getting," noted Smith. "With many open positions, besides goalie, everyone has really bee!J working all out to make the varsity:" 
As the home opener against Minnesota looms closer certain lines have been working together and getting their timing down, learning each other's reactions and movements to given situations. 
On offense Brian Walsh is centering for Alex Pirus and Mark Olive, Pat Conroy is pivotting between Tim Byers and Jim Augustine, and Clark Hamilton is handling the faceoff duties for Kevin Nugent and Pat Novitski. At the blue line Lefty has paired Paul Clarke and Jack Brown­schilde, Les Larson and Roger Borque, and Lew Curry and Bob Jackson to handle the defensive chores. 
"The progress the players have made in the three weeks of practice has been very pleasing to me," remarked Coach Smith. "-I see better hockey in each practice, in terms of a better job of playing disciplined, positional hockey both offensively and defensively." 
"Offensively our scoring should be balanced across the three lines, .." added Smith. "The· three lines , as is the whole .earn, has a much better balance than last year. So we won't have to,rely on a few key individuals to put the puck in the net." 
"Everyone on the team knows they have to play their best," explained soph blueliner Paul Clarke. "We can't rely on those "freshman mistakes anymore. All the guys. are really anxious to play Minnesota, but we are hesitiant about what to expect against Minnesota and the rest of the league." 

Football tickets to 
go on sale today 
General admission football tickets are now available for the Rice, Army, and Miami home games. The tickets became available because the schools recently returned their ticket allotments. Interested persons can purchase the tickets at Gate 10 of the ACC. 
\1) 
I 


~ ....... l.-\, 
._, 
f 
....... 

Soph center Brian Walsh angles toward the goal in action last season. 
"We are really going to surprise a lot of people, including our­selves," commented Brian Walsh, last year's WCHA rookie-of-the­year. "Our game will be exciting two-way hockey, with a lot of hitting on both the forecheck and the backcheck." 
Whether it's 'Lefty Smith,' Paul Clarke, or Brian Walsh, they all agree that the squad needs the vocal support of the student body. "We get great support from the South Bend people," notedWalsh," but when we skate onto the ice we can feel the swell of student sup­port behind us." 
A total of 1218 seats are available 
for student season tickets, for the 
NOW 


GODSPEED 
AND 
SOUTH SHORE 






~Sku/a~ 
on U.S. 31 bttwHn lliles, So. B•d-Free Parkin&·683-C350' 
bargain price of one dollar per game in a package of sixteen games. Ticket sales are on a first come, first serve basis next Tuesday through Thursday, 9-4, at the ACC second floor ticket win­dows. 
Just where will the Irish icers go this year? That's an unknown which must be faced by every WCHA club. The ND squad is brand new and muchtmproved, yet they have no credentials except for what they do on the ice. The proving that the Irish are back will begin October 18th against the Golden Gopers of Minnesota~ven though it is "only an exhibition game." 


