
OD The Inside 
Orange Bowl ...page 3 Crosson resigns •..page4 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community

Vol. IX, No. 42 
Wednesday, November 6, 1974 
[8] [8] [8] [8] [8] Capture all but one office 

Democrats score landslide victory 
by Ken Girouard and 
Don Reimer 
Staff Reporters 

It was a landslide victory for the Democrats l'_esterday as St. Joseph County 
voters went to the polls in the General Election. The Democrats captured all but 
one of the offices that were contested. 
The race for United States Senator between incumbent Birch Ba__yh and 
Richard Lugar was closer than had been _predicted in this district. Bayh, a 
Democrat, defeated in this district Lugar by a slim margin of approximately
8,000 votes. Many experts had predicted that Bayh would carry the district by as 
many as 15,000 votes. 

St. Joseph County, a traditionally Democratic St. Joseph County results in other state-wide district, had been counted as being one of Bayh's races were as follows: Larry Conrad defeated major strongholds. American Party candidate Don · William Allen, III for Secretary of State (43,102­
L. Lee received less than one percent of the votes 37,120); Mary Currie defeated Jean Merritt (44,905­and did not significantly effect the margin of Bayh's 32,610) for State Auditor; Jack New beat out victory. Randall Miller for State Treasurer (44,816-32,506);
John Brademas was returned to his seat in the and Billie McCullough defeated Pat Yoho in the 
U.S. House of Representatives for the ninth time as race for Supreme Court Clerk (47,178-29,041). he crushed his Republican opponent, Virginia All victors in these races were Democrat. 
Black. The margin of Brademas' victory was over two to one. County Elections 
Brademas, a high-ranking member of the House, commented that he was pleased with his victory. Democrat Richard Larrison was elected as the He noted that the first order of business upon his County Commissioner for St. Joseph County. '·. 
return to Washington was "to go to work on the bill Larrison narrowly defeated his opponent, ·Jack to preserve the tapes and Watergate material." Ellis, by a margin of 12,906 votes to 11,278. 
This bill is presently before the House Sub­Larrison, whose platform centered on the moder­committee on Printing, which he chairs. nization of government, captured 54 percent o( the votes. State Senate 
The contest for Prosecuting Attorney matched two Notre Dame graduates. William Voor, aThe race for the 11th District seat in the Indiana Democrat, emerged as the winner, edging outState Senate was closely contested. Democratic Republican William Mayette. Voor gathered 52candidate Robert Kovach edged out Republican percent of the vote.
William Bontrager by a margin of approximately Three candidates vied for Ute position of Couritry1000 votes. 
Sheriff. Again the Democratic Party was victorious The margin of Kovach's victory could be slimmer as Dean Bolerjack defeated opponents Nesterpending the counting of the absentee ballots. 
Stachowicz and Harold Morgan, Jr. It was a ratherNotre Dame lies in the 11th Senatorial District. 
convincing vitory as Bolerjack collected 60 percentAs a result, the effect of Notre Dame students' votes of the vote. 
on Kovach's victory is unknown yet possibly significant, as he was the candidate who favored the 
Of the races for the nine County Council seats, twolowering of the drinking age while Bontrager was directly affected the Notre Dame community. The opwas opposed to this action. 
contest for the District B seat, which includes the Notre Dame campus, was somewhat of a runawayState House of Representatives as Democrat Walter Mucha defeated Frank Mulligan by a margin of 4336 to 2795.
Robert DuComb, Jr., and Richard Bodine emerged as the victors in the race for seats in the 
The other race which affected ND students· tookIndiana House of Representatives. The contest for place in District G, which is located just south of thethe two seats of the 9th State Congressional District campus and contains many off-eampus students.
involved four candidates. 

Again a Democrat was elected as Thomas Catan-DuComb, the only victorious Republican in St. 
zarite beat Edwin Smith. .
the top vote-getter, edging
Joseph County, was The Democratic landslide in St. Joseph County
Bodine by 400 votes. Both DuComb and Bodine, was indicative of the national trend in whichhowever, easily defeated the other two candidates Democrats made gains in both governorships andfor the seats, Elizabeth Bauer and incumbent Congress.
Richard Lindsey. 

House Republican losses widespread 
Staunch Nixon supporters lose heavily 
A number of popular Senate term after his disastrous defeat The "eaviest liUr losses Republicans, most of them as a presidential candidate, were in Indiana where Republi­from the moderate-liberal wing, won re-election by defeating cans lost five House seats, New survived the Democratic on­former POW Leo K. Thorsness Jersey with four, Virgginia an.::: slaught. They included Sen. in South Dakota. 1~ew York with two, and 11 Jacob K. Javits of New York, other states with one each.
other Democrats winning re­
who turned back the strongest Only two Democratic in cum­
election were Abraham Ribicoff
challenge of his career from bents were ousted, one in
.of Connecticut, James B. Allen
former Attorney General Ram­Florida and one in Louisiana.
of Alabama, Herman E. Tal­sey Clark; Sen. Richard madge of Georgia, AdlaiSchweiker of Pennsylvania who Stevenson of Illinois, Birch Among those to fall werdefeated Pittsburgh Mayor 
Bayh of Indiana, Russell B. Rep. Earl Landgrebe of In­
Peter Flaherty; and Charles 
McC. Mathias Jr. of Maryland Long of Louisiana, Daniel K. diana, who refused to vote for 
who turned back Baltimore Inouye of Hawaii, Thomas F. the ·impeachment report on Eagleton of Missouri, Ernest F. Nixon;
councilwoman Barbara Mikul­Reps. Charles Sandman 
ski, and Robert Packwood of Hollings of South Carolina, and Joseph Maraziti, both of Oregon who beat Betty Rlberts. Warren G. Magnuson of Wash­New Jersey, who backed Nixon 
ington and Gaylord Nelson of almost to the end; Rep. Joel Rep. Louis Wyman managed Wisconsin. Broyhill of Virginia, one of thf! 
to hold onto the Republican two senior Republicans in the 
1 seat in New Hampshire, left Two more newcomers, in House from the South; and open by the retirement of Sen. addition to Culver, Glenn, and Rep. William B. Widnall of New Norris H. Cotton, but Patrick Hart, were Robert Mor~an of Jersey, ranking Republican on 
1
Leahy was leading Republican North Carolina and Rtchard the House Banking Committee. Rep. Richard Mallary for a Stone of Florida. vacant seat in Vermont. Leahy 
Republican House losses were Rep. Wilbur Mflls of Arkan­
would become the first Demo­widespread, including long­sas, chairman of the House
cratic senator ever elected in 
entrenched veterans and some Ways and Means Committee,Vermont. 
of Richard M. Nixon's strongest survived an escapade with a 1McGovern, seeking a second 
supporters. stripper to win re-election. 
1 
__j 



the observer Wednesday, November 6, 11)74
2 

warld briefs 
CLEVELAND <UP() -An FBI agent testified Tuesday that one of eight former Ohio National Guardsmen on trial here told him a "second lieutenant fired a shot toward" a crowd of demonstrators at Kent State University and heard guard troops open fire at the same time. 
Four students were killed and nine wounded during an anti-war demonstration on campus May 4, 1970. Two of those who were wounded testified earlier Tuesday. 
WANAQUE, N.J. <UPI)-A 19-year old man was arrested Tuesday and charged with murder in the sniper-style slaying of a municipal judge, felled by a bullet that crashed through his courtroom win­dow while he presided at a night court hearing. 
The suspect, David Vervaet, was picked up by police and county detectives at his Haskell, N.J. home in connection with the slaying Monday night of Municipal Court Judge Joseph J. Cresente, 71. 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Swiss Credit Bank Chairman F. W. Schulthese said Tuesday that world inflation and unemployment "may well destroy the democratic institutions of the West." 
IRVI~G. TEX. <_lJPI)-Police Tuesday said a 15-year old, perhaps 
workmg_alone, k1dnaped a 5-year-old and held him a half day while 
demandmg a $10,000 ransom. 

.P~li~e traced ~e kidnaper's threateniing telephone calls to the 
v1ctlm s parents m tehe southwestern part of this Dallas suburb 
late Monday and arrested the scared 15-year old and freed his 5­
y~old victim. 

an campus taday 
12:15 pm --seminar, "inactivation of microorganisms by ozone, with and without sonication," by dr. gary burleson. coffee and sandwiches In rm 109 at 11:45. rm 102, lobund lab, galvin life sciences center. 
3:00 pm --college council, arts and letters cc, rm 202, center for cont. educ. 
4:15pm--lecture, peter c. reilly series, "heterogeneous catalysis," by dr. john h. slnfeld, coffee at 3:00 In physics gaculty lounge, rm 401, nieuwland. 
4:15 pm --colloquium, "what ceiling effects mean to you," john belmont, rm 117 haggar hall. 
4:30pm --colloquium, "proton-rich nuclei," by dr. edwin kashy, msu, coffee at 4:q5, rm 118, nleuwland. 
5:00 pm -evensong vespers, log chapel. 
6:30pm--meeting, nd salling club, rm 204 eng. bldg. 
7:00pm--lecture, "new views on alpine tethys evolution based on joides results," by dr. daniel bernoulli, unlv. of switzerland, rm 101, earth sciences bldg. 
7:30pm-meeting, faculty senate, rm 202 cce. 
7:30pm --lecture, american scene series, "francols maurlac: the tension between god and mammon In his work," robert spealght, carroll hall. 
8:15pm--concert, louis sudler, baritone; patrick maloney, tenor; doing operatic duets, arias, songs, library auditorium. 
Junior class sponsors Happy Hour Friday 
The Junior Class will be spon­
soring a Happy Hour, Friday af­
ternoon at Kubiak's The 
gathering has been planned 
through the cooperation of the 
Jumior Class officers at Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's and the 
proprietor of the Michigan Tavern. 
The Happy Hour is the second 
hosted by the Junior Class Of­
ficers. Junior Class President 
Augie Grace remarked, "The first 
event was actually experimental' 

It proved to be overwhelming 
successful for such short notice 
planning. We received many 
ravorable comments about it and 
have planned happy hours for thix 

week and for the importennt 
, 
Pittsburgh football weekend." 

Like the first gatheirng, tne hours will be from 3:30-6:30 p.m. at which time pitchers of beer will be sold at the reduced price of $1.50 Promotional deals will be hid throughout the afternoon in which beer T -shirts and signs can be purchased or awarded. 
St. Mary's Junior Class President Joan MCDermott de ribed the happy hour as "an excellent opportunity for juniors at both schools to get tohgether in a truly relaxed atmosphere." McDermott advised juniors to arrive early to insure easy ad­mittance. 
............................................. 
: :MICHIGAN STRF:F~I' ii ADULT THEATRES · i 
! X 2 F1LIVIS i i X BOOKS'IQiE i
f • • 
t i X LIVE FLCXE SHOW !;
! • •
! 1316 SCUH MICHIGAN STREEt i 
L!!!.~.~!~:.l.aRU9JLLf1F.2RMAJJQHJ 
No agreement reached 
SLC discusses sexuality rule 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Rporter 
The SLC failed for the third time monday to agree . on a revision of the University sexuality rule. Dispute during the hour-and-a-half long meeting centered on the meaning and treatment of "cohabitation". However, no final vote was taken and discussion will continue next week. 

The Commission, which has been debating the issue for a month, concentrated yesterday on the rules committee proposal that "Any sexual misconduct that is flagrant, perverse, or repetitive... may result in suspension or expulsion." A second provision of the proposal leaves the handling of less ,. serious "sexual misconduct" to the rectors and hall staffs. 
According to the Dean of Students John Macheca, "Repetitive includes cohabitation-setting up a marriage relationship outside of marriage, perhaps only for a long weekend." Macheca also pointed out that Fr. Hesburgh's veto message on the last revivsion stated that Hesburgh expected a prohibition to cover cases where extramartial sex could be proven or ecen presumed to have occurred. 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin disagreed, in­
..........-..-:---__...-a_....... 
Ch;erver Staff 
Night Editor · AI Rutherford Asst. Night Editor . Ginny Faust Layout . Karllee Clark, Roasleen Muench Copy Reader · Ken Bradford Day Editor . George Velclch Editorials . Fred Graver Features -J. R. Baker Sports · Bob Kissel, Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor Typists . J lm Landis, Don Roos, Karen Hinks, Nell VIII, Barb Norcross Compugraphic . M. J. Foley Picture Screener -Albert D'An­tonio Ad Layout . Bob Tracey Late Typist . Dave Rust 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame .,.d St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from ·The Observer Bo:K" Q, Notre Dame, Indiana <46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

terpreting the clause to apply only to repetition of otherwise minor acts covered in the second provision of the proposal and pointed out it is possible to live together without having in­tercourse. The SLC voted 12-7 to amend the proposal to require a previous warning berfore disciplinary action could be <taken on repetitive misconduct. 
Several members suggested that it is impossible to write a precise rule acceptable to the whoe community. "The more we d,iscuss this rule the Jess I un­derstand it," Sr. John Miriam, assistant to the provost, com­mented. "We might as well say that serious misconduct -~,d be handled by suspension or expulsion and that less serious misconduct should be taken care of in the halls. That would by just as clears what we have here.. " 
Dr. Paul Conway of the funance department suggested passing a general rule and letting the judicial board or a special review board enforce it on a case-by-case basis. 
''e~ratter year, semesrerI after semester, t~:~ (ollegeMaster from 
Fidelitv Union Life has oc-en the most acceptt>d, most popular plan on campuses all overAmenca . 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegeMaster· Field Associate in your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 

Phil Teah 
~~tnt 

At BURGER CHEF •••give your sandwich the "works" at 

NO EXTRA CHARGE 
Two locations .. 
1716 N. Ironwood 52920 U.S. 31 North (at Cleveland Rd.) 
Fix your own burger the way you. 
like it at our new Works Bar. 
Help yourself to lettuce, tomatoes, onions, relish and pickles. Ifmustard and catsup are all you want, it's there for you too. Have as much or as little as you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar ... and build your burger just the way you want it. 
J 

Wednesday, November 6, 1974 the observer 
3 

Parseghian forecasts Orange Bowl 
by Bill Gonzenbach "I would like to accept bowl bids head man at his alma mater, 
Staff Reporter after the season is over," Par­Miami of Ohio, from 1951 through seghian said. Presently, all 1955, and then he became head 
Head football coach Ara offers must be accepted by Nov. coach at Northwestern from 1956 Parseghian said yesterday that 16. to 1963. he believes Notre Dame will play Parseghian also spoke about
Parseghian said the change is 

Alabama in the Orange Bowl this the team's performance against 
needed to insure that the teams 
year. Parseghian made the Navy last week. "There are a
with the best records play in the
prediction at a celebrity lun­combination of factors that lead
bowl games. "A team could lose 
cheon at the Bulla Shed. to our poor performance," said
their last few games and still
"It doesn't take much figuring the coach. He said Navy's great 
have a bowl bid," the coach
to see that we will play Alabama. kicking game, combined with
commented.
There's not many options open," Parseghian came Notre their lack of turnovers hurt the
to

the coach said. Parseghian Irish's game.
Dame in 1964 to become the
added the bowl committees will ' The coach also stated that
school's 22nd head football
make their unofficial decision by extremely warm temperatures
coach. While at Notre Dame,
Saturday. tired many of the players.
Ara has compiled a record of 85­
The Fighting Irish coach also Parseghian also said that
15-4 (.850), placing him behind
predicted that Michigan has a "Clements had the poorest day
only Knute Rockne and Frank
good chance to beat Ohio State by far." He added that another
Leahy in victories.
University Nov. 23. "If Michigan factor in the team's poor per­
When asked how he developed r~u•~rn•u to see that we
plays possessive offensive formance was "The team was
the 1964 squad which previously not many options open. C Photo by Ed M...,,..,a,r •
football and plays decent flat when we went ;into the ball
had a 2-7 season, Parseghian Ohio halfback honors and certainly brought him success.
defensive football, they can game."
jokingly replied, "I started with received All-American mention In 1964 he was named Co-Coach
win," judged the 51 year-()ld Parseghian was born in Akron, 
profanity." The coach added in 1947 when Miami played in the of the Year by the American
Parseghian. Ohio on may 21, 1923. Mter
that his main goal was to develop Sun Bowl. Football Coaches Association.
The coach added that Michigan graduation from high school
confidence in John Huarte and Parseghian was also named
has a very good defensive team, there, he enlisted in the Navy. The coach said his long
the rest of the team. The team Coach of the Year by the Football 
while Ohio State is slightly Following his discharge, he career in football has developed
placed third in the AP and UPI Writers of ·America, by the
vulnerable defensively. entered Miami where he com­his personal philosophy. "One
polls that year. Washington Touchdown Club, the 
Parseghian also criticized the peted in football, baseball and thing I learned early in my
Parseghian has been a head Columbus Touchdown Club, the
bowl e:ame selection procedure." basketball. Parseghian won all-football career is that you have to
coach since 1951. He wal? the Football News and the New York
battle every challenge. You have 
Daily News. Again last season,Ccntributed to Wttergate to take the attitude that any Football News voted him Coach
problem is a solvable problem of the Year.
and don't give up," Parseghian celebrity was
The luncheonsaid. He added that he was very sponsored by Campus Ministry. 

proud that Notre Dame didn't A group of 30 people had a lunch





Bailey attacks lawyers 
give up after the loss to Purdue. of soup, sandwich and lemonade The coach's philosophy has as Parseghian spoke. 
by Kathy Mills set stipend for his services and Staff Reporter suggested that the trial lawyer be paid "not what the client can 
Glee club performed over 
Attorney F. Lee Bailey at­afford, but what the government 
tributed the occurrence of can afford." 
Watergate to the lack of integrity "The greatest possible security 
break throughout northeast 
and knowledge in American against another Watergate is in­Lawyers in a speech to Notre jesting into the youngsetrs that by John Kenward program, was
The whichDame law students last night in the they do not want to end up just fifty Staff Reporter 

described by one member as

law school lounge. years-()ld and with the money," having been "well received and
Bailey then called for the stated Bailey. The Notre Dame Glee Club well attended", consisted of a deveiopment of lawyers as a performed in nine cities in six variety of numbers sung by the "corps of licensed specialists," The attorney remarked that states of the Northeast, over mid-group as a whole and acts per-
similar to British barristers. "The British barristers learn things that 
semester break. formed by smaller groups.·British system seems to work and ''American schools are not Sponsored by various Notre The twenty-four numbers there is no anwwer other than equipped to teach in detail," and Dame clubs and high schools, the included songs written by
integrity," he stated. that to a barrister "the idea of 
"Singing Irish" presented their Schubert, the Beach Boys. Verdi, 
Referring again to Watergate, taking a bribe is in­fall tour to audiences in Jackson, and Simon and Garfunkel as well Bailey asserted that a barrister comprehensible." Bailey con­Michigan; 1Buffalo,; Lincroft; as songs from the Broadway hits would have found those involved ceded that some American New Jersey; New Haven and "1776" and "How to Succeed In
lawyers get "pretty good" through 
quickly and "would have gotten New Britian in Conneticut; Business Without Reallytheir cooperation quickly. There practice, "but their training is not Boston; Scranton; Philadelphia; Trying". The program con-would have been no need for a formalized." He observed that to and Williamsport. The group eluded each time with the Notre special prosecutor," he continued. his knowledge no course in cross­returned to Notre Dame late Dame Victory March. 
"The case would have unfolded examination in an American law 
Sunday night. The Glee Club would like to 
quickly." school is taught by a cross­The forty-four performers announce to the Notre Dame-examiner. 
chosen out of the Glee Club's Saint Mary's community that on 
According to Bailey, the seventy members on the basis of Monday, November 11 at 8:15 American legal profession was Bailey emphasized the need for desire to go and seniority, were pm, they will hold a free concert unable to see clearly their duty to an increase in knowledge and accompanied by Chaplain Fr. in Washington Hall. The concert act in the Watergate affair; it did integrity of American lawyers. Robert Griffin and Director Dr. will include many of the songs
not bear down. "This type of "There can only be two kinds of David Isele. performed on tour. flexibility--to let a man decide for lawyers-superb and very good,himself what is right-cannot be but never less than 100 per cent," 
allowed," he declared. Bailey concluded. ! NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION i Bailey cited money as a prime A graduate of Boston University • • source of corruption for trial Law School, Bailey is famous for • • lawyers. He maintained that there his book, The Defense Never : PROODL.Y PRESENTS : should not be anything available to Rests, and is currently on a sequel • • the dedicated trial lawyer except a to it. • • 
: an evening with : 
: . 
Cinema '75 presents • • 
"ON THE WATERFROOT" 
i• YES • ~ 
Starring ~Ytarl on Brando : IN CONCERT : lee J. Cobb • • Eva Marie Saint : NOTRE 1>\1\AE ATHLETIC AND : Karl ~Ytalden : CON\OCATION CENTER :
. : 
:::: Wednesday Night 8 & 10 p.m. :% :THURSDAY NOVEMBER 14 8:30 p.m.: Eng ineerirg Au d. 
: TICKETS NOW ON SALE i i• AC.C. TIO<ET OFFICE GATE 1 0 i•
..Admission $1 .00 Patron Card Holders Free ! PRICES: $6.50, $5.50, $4.00 i 
'············································· 


the observer Wednesday, November 6, 1974 
Calendar issue discussed at HPC 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 
Discussion concerning the calendar issue dominated last night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting, with its immediate future being explained by Student Government Academic Commissioner Jim Ambrose. 
Ambrose related that there are no plans to bring discussions about possible calendar revisions before the Academic Council this semester. The agenda for the remaining three meetings in 1974 will include: part-time and full­time faculty complaints on November 26th, and two academic proposals by the College of Arts and Letters at the December 5th and 11th meetings, according to the academic commissioner. 
"The reasoning behind Fr. Burtchaell 's decision for tabling discussion for the calendar issue," Ambrose told the hall presidents, "is that he feels that the calendar situation cannot be justly evaluated until the whole thing is experienced." 
Thus the issue will not be brought up before the Academic Council until early February, according to Ambrose. In the meantime, the Academic Commissioner proposed that a faculty and a student poll be run to determine current interest in the calendar issue, a comparison with other schools' calendars made and petition-signing for calendar revision held. 

"The students must keep the calendar issue alive until Frebruary if they (students) want any revisions to be con­sidered," Ambrose recom­mended to the HPC. 
Tickets for the trial exchange program between the North and South dining halls were distributed by Chairman Bob Howl. The two-week experiment will be for lunches only. Success of the lunchtime exchange will lead not only to make the program a permanent fixture, but also expanding it to include t'le evening meals, according to Howl. 
Crosson resigns frozn position as Dean of Arts and Letters 
Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, dean of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame since 1968, will leave that position at the end of this academic year and return to teaching following a year's sabbatical. 
Crosson, who taught in the General Program of Liberal Studies and the Department of Philosophy before assuming the deanship, was the first lay dean of Arts and Letters in the history of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame's president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, announced Crosson's plans at an October 25 dinner of the Arts and Letters Advisory Council and commented, "Dean Crosson has served the University with distinction during a very unsettling time in American highter education. In days of student unrest and financial exigencies, he kept the focus on educational ~uality, and we are the better for it. ' 
A member of the University faculty since 1953, Crosson received his bachelor's and master of arts degrees form the Catholic· University of America, 
Washington , D.C. Following further graduate study at Laval University, Quebec, and the University of Paris, he received his doctorate in philosophy from Notre Dame in 1956. He is a specialist in phenomenology and existentialism. 

Crosson was director of the 
General Program of Liberal 
Studies from 1964 to 1968 and also 
served as assiciate director of the 
Philosophic Institute for Artifical 
Intelligence. He was co-editor of 
"The Modeling of Mind: Com-
Society seeks members 
The Fifth of November Society was founded in 1972 "to celebrate or bemoan, according to individual preference, the failure of the Gunpowder Plot by consuming an appropriate quantity of Watney's Red Barrel." 
Anyone who has spent an academic year or the equivalent in England is eligibler for full membership. Anyone who has become sufficiently attached to the objects of the Society on the basis of a shorter sojourn is eligible for assiciate membership. 
Annual dues for efther class of membership are $2.00, subject to dividend or assessment, depending on the cost of the Societ's annual function. Those_ desiring mem­bership should inform Professor Rodes in the Law School, Professor Sniegowski in the English Department or Professor Noel of the Saint Mary's English Department. 
Membership may be taken out at the annual function itself, but the organizers would like to know in advance whether more than one keg of beer will be required. 


puters and Intelligence" and editor of "Science and Contrmportary Society," both published by the Notre Dame Press in 1967. 
Arts and Letters is the University's largestundergraduate college, with 14 departments, as ·many academic programs, 2,034 students and 320 faculty. 
Hesburgh said a search com­mittee would be formed to make recommendations for a new dean. The Academic Manual of the University provides that such a committee be formed by five Arts and Letters faculty members, elected by the College Council from among full and assiciate professors, and one student from the college, also-elected by the Council. The committee meets: with the provost to receive and consider nominations, including those from the faculty of the College. The provost then reports his recommendations and those of the committee to the president of the University. 
The HPC chairman thanked all preceeding the mid-semester those students involved in the break. Howl told the council that "successful" United Way drive the total recepts would be made that ran over the three weeks at next week's meeting.

Supply 



W~~~~~~~lW ~stsl 
CORNER OF IRONWOOD & f;t'&
8

STATE ROAD 23 /ANOARO 
(ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART) .,. 2 7 2-0 0 8 3 •SERVICE• 
BE SURE TO ASK FOR 10 PERCENT ND-SMC DISCOUNT ON EVERYTHING EXCEPT GAS. 
J~~ Foreign Car Parts Co. ~Parts & accessories for imported car! 
R••ion•' for all makes at lowest prices. 
Diatributor 
'************************* 
~For ND Students, Faculty & Staff 10 * 
* percent discount with I D & pur-~ ! chase of $10 or more. * 
************************. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland' So. Bend 

HUNTING FOR SOMEPLACE TO EAT LATE AT NIGHT? 
TRY THE BRAND NEW "IN" PLACE 
CAFE de Ia Nuit 1 0 1 9 Corby Blvd. · . a c r o s s t h e s t r e e t fro m Co r b y ' 
FEATURING STEAK & EGGS and EGGS BENEDICT AT REASONABLE PRICES 
.GOT THE MUNCHIES ... TRY CAFE'S LATE NIGHT CUISINE 
OPEN 11:00 p.m. UNTIL • • • 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.~--~------------------~ 
1Tl students remain 
Dining halls closed during break 
by Matt Yokom Staff Reporter 

Approximately one-fifth of the student body remained on the Notre Dame campus over last week's break Vice-President of Student Affairs Br. Just Pac­zesny said yesterday. Paczesny said the estimates were based upon reports from the Univer­sity's hall rectors. While the estimateed 777 students remained, both the north and south dining halls were closed. 
Fr. Kieran Ryan, assistant vice-president of business af­fairs, said yesterday the closing of the dining halls "has been a common practice since the breaks were instituted." Ryan indicated the seven days of the oreak were not considered in tbe 
budgeting of the student meal 
contracts. 
Director of Food Services, 
Edmund Price reported the pay 
cafeteria in the South Dining 
Hall handled everyone without 
trouble. Price estimated ap­
proximately ninehundredpersons 
were served ~here per dav. 
Price added, however, "I don't think we saw too many un­dergrads" at the pay-cafeteria. Price felt must of the patronage was from approximately 60 law students and people on campus for conferences and university em­ployees. He said the law students' meal contracts included last week's meals since the law school was in session. 
Price stated, "If there has been a greater demand we could have accomodated more students," 
Price said students who left for the break should not be asked to pay for the meals of those who remained on campus. "The dining halls operate on a break-even basis," Price continued, "so we try to cut cost for students by not charging all of them for meals only a few will eat." 
A part of the estimated 777 students who remained on campus at various times during the break were athletes. Price said ap­proximately 200 athletes from the hockey, football, basketball and track teams continued to b served at training tables. 
Price also indicated that business at the Huddle, the only other place to eat on campus, decreased during the break. 
Against national trend 
J.VIinority enrollment increases 
by Katherine Lawrence included 44·Spanish Americans, Staff Reporter 39 blacks, 15 Oriental Americans 
Contrary to a national trend of and two American In-decreasing minority group dians. More than half of the enrollment, the University minority students were members enrolled a record 100 new of the National Honor Societystudents of varying ethnic and 22 received the Notre Dame backgrounds for the current Scholar designation, given to academic vear. This figure "exceptionally outstanding 
De:crDcrats capture 23 of 35 governorships acrossnation 
WASHINGTON (UPl) Democrats ended Republican control of governorships in New York, Massachsetts, Connec­ticut, Colorado, Oregon and Tennesse Tuesday but the GOP stopped a Democratic sweep of the nation's 10 largest states by re-electing Gov. William Millik­en of Michigan. 
The Democrats won the bulk of the 35 governorships at stake, electing Rep. Hugh Carey over Nelson Rockefel­ler's hand picked successor in New York, and in Connecticut Rep. Ella Grasso became the first woman ever elected governor on her own. 
By midnight, Democrats cap­tured 23 governorships, and led in three other races. Republi­cans won only three, re-electing Govs. Milliken, Meldrim Thom­son Jr., of New Hampshire and Robert Ray of Iowa. Republi­cans held narrow leads in Kansas and. South Carolina, but the results were too close to call. 
If Democrats win as expected in Ohio and California, they will go into the 1976 presidential race with solid grassroots organizations in all of the big 10 states except Michigan. 
One of the strangest races of the night was in Maine, where an independent, James Lon­gley, held a narrow lead over Republican James Erwin and Democrat George Mitchell. 
In key gubernatorial races: 
New York -Carey, a veteran Brooklyn congressman who won a surprise victory in last fall's Democratic primary, ousted Gov. Malcolm Wilson, who succeeded Rockefeller last December after serving 15 years as lieutenant governor. 
Connecticut -Mrs. Grasso led her Republican House colleague Robert Steele by more than 200,000 votes with nearly all the ballots counted. Though three women have been elected to succeed their hus­bands as governor, she is the first to win the post on her own merits. 
Michigan -Milliken, fighting unemployment in Michigan and the effects of the Watergate scandal, won a narrow re­election victory over challenger Sander Levin. 
Massachusetts -Gov. Francis Sargent, an apparent victim of Boston's busing dispute, lost to Democrat Mike Dukakis, a former state legislator. 
Colorado -Democrat Richard Lamm, a state legislator and law professor who led the battle to keep the 1976 Winter Olympics out of the state defeated Gov. John Vanderhoof. 
Democrats were especially strong in the South. Gov. George Wallace of Alabama won a landslide re-election, giving him the power base to 
launch an expected 1976 presi-*****************************************************-t-•.~·
dential drive. * ~.-.. 
Another key figure in the * Democrats' 1976 picture, Gov. * 
Reubin Askew of Flordia, easily : won re-election. Elsewhere in * the South, Democrats elected * George Busbee in Georgia, * David Pryor in Arkansas, and * former Rep. Ray Blanton * topped Lamar Alexander, a * former Nixon aide, for gover-* 
nor of Tennessee. * 
Big state Democratic gover-* 
nors who easily won re-election : 
included Milton Shapp of * 
Pennsylvania, Dolph Briscoe of * 
Texas, Marvin Mandell of* 
Maryland and Patrick Lucey of * 
Wisconsin. * 
GOVERNOR BY UPI Standing of Governor races at~ 
11:52 P.M. EST. 
RepnsDemsOthers Elected 3 20 0 ~ Leading 2 7 1 Holdovers 6 9 0 *• 
New Total 11 36 1 * Present 18 32 0 
*
* 

Senate _ necessary for :
51 control. * RepnsDemsOthers : 
Elected 
4 15 o * 

Leading 6 7 o * 
Holdovers 
28 38 o * 

New Total 
38 60 0 * 

Present 42 58 o *
* 

House -218 necessary for !: control. J: RepnsDemsOthers ~ Elected 66 210 o * 
Leading 65 67 o * New Total 131 277 o : Present 
187 248 0 • 

entering students in recognition of their intellectual and personal charagteristics." Of the 22, 13 were given scholarships based on need. 
June McCauslin, Director of the Office of Financial Aid, said there is no special scholarship fund for minority students, but there is the Holy Cross Award which is a series of grants for students with financial need. It is not based on scholastic achievement. 
Of the 94 freshmen students, 
nine graduated first in their 
class, 31 graduated in the top five 
per cent; 55 graduated in the top 
10 per cent, and 71 graduated in 
the top 20 per cent. The six non­
freshman students from 
minority backgrounds tran­
:sferred to Notre Dame from 
other colleges and universities. 
McCauslin said that the 
university tries to interest 
eligible students who might not 
ordinarily apply to Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame's total un­
dergraduate minority 
enrollment is 316, including 126 
blacks, 143 Spanish Americans 
and 47 American Indians and 
Orientals. 
Wednesday, November 6, 1974 the observer 
5 

THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE announces AUDITIONS for 
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST Nov. 5 and 6 at 7:00 P.M. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) No Tryout Preparation Necessary OPEN. TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS VVITHa.JT WHEELS? When In Need Of A Quick Getaw-ay, Call Lois At JORDAN
JORDAN FORD 


FORD

259-1981 
STUDENT RATES: Rent A PINTO ~For Just 
$ 6/Day & 6 '/Mile (MIN. AGE 2J) 609 E. Jefferson, Mishawaka 





THE W:INEBY 
2426 LINCOLNWAV WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE ~ 
All the Finest European Cheeses Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods Oriental Cooking Ingredients 10 . 1% Cheese & Fancy Food Discount to Faculty & Students French Bread & Croissants 
New York Cheesecake Greek Olives 
· .. ­
Ex • the •it of Ch . •*
perlef"k:e ~r ristn1as : 
~ __.,
as never before. :, 
ama * * ,.. * 
lit 
1 
,... 
* * 


0_ tho : 
* 

('T' ~ * 
* 

night i 

,., visitors i 
*
•
*
* 

A special presentation of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra : 
"Amahl & the Night Visitors" is a colorfully staged and costumed mu­sical classic with an appeal to all people, young and old alike. This is the first professional production ever to be performed in the area. There 
will be two performances only and tickets are limited. We suggest you purchase your tickets early. Performances: 
Morris Civic Auditorium 

Friday, December 6 (8 p.m.) Saturday (matinee) Dec. 7 (3:30p.m.) 
Tickets: Friday Saturday * Reserved : seats $5.50 & 4.00 $4.50 & 3.00 »­General · Admission $3.00 $2.00 :: 
For reservations and ticket informa-** tion, phone the Morris Civic Audito-* rium box office at 232-6954. Tickets !: may be ordered by mail by sending J: a check or money order and a self-~ addressed, stamped envelope to: * Morris Civic Auditorium, South * Bend, IN 46601. !* 
...................................................................::-.~ •.v.* 

,______ ______________________________ 
the observer Wednesday, November 6. 1974
6 


P.O. 
Nov 13­
Take a Guy 
to Lunch 
Dear Editor, 
We've been a little more friendly to each other in the past few weeks and it's becoming noticable. We hope we can keep it up, but now we'd like everyone to go one step further. We've been saying hello to faces -let's find out the names that correspond with them. It can be done fairly simply-just ask. To start the conversation is the biggest step. 
But that leads to a bigger step ­dating. It's time for the guys to start acting like men. Sure it might hurt your ego to be shot down a few times. But does it really feel much better knowing you haven't even the courage to ask. If a girl appeals to you, ask her out. You can't wait for the girl of your dreams to walk up to you and say "Here I am, let's go out'." It just isn't reasonable. You can't expect to find the girl of your dreams if you're not even willing to look closely at other girls. Too many of us (girls and guys) have preconceived ideas of exactly what we want. 
We all want to be seen with the most beautiful girl or the most handsome guy on campus, who also is intelligen, charming, and personable. <In some cases, girls even insist on jocks.) We can't all be the most anything, so let's start ~,.,: ''t reality. In reality there are .:>ably a dozen people we'd like · · neet because something in them , ! 1eals to us. Of that dozen there ,(.· probably one or two who stand 
ys, a girl can only do so much 
. courage you. In the end, you 
. e to do the asking. It is an .. 'lrtunate .consequence of our .K.al system. We're not denying th~t it's difficult, but it has to be do·.e. 
:rls, you can make it easier for u~ :.f you want to get to know a g, .>tart a conversation or 3 with him. If he doesn't respond, either he's not interested, or he's too stupid to be worth your effort Another problem is that we take 2 weeks, 2 months, or longer to build up enough courage to ask you out. When we do, you've got something else planned and we have to accept an excuse. This is what really hurts and is where you can do the most good. If you do have a legitimate excuse, but you want to go out with us, tell us. It would take a lot of the uncertainly and emotional strain off asking again. If you don't want to go out, don't evenhintat the future. Sometimes we accept 25 excuses before we get the hint. If we have some way to determine, we'll know whether to ask again. 
Sometimes we'll ask girls out a month in advance to get a date, because it seems necessary with some girls. But if we get excuses; or a no; or if the girl goes out with other guys, we get all upset and tell our friends what a bitch she is. We can't blame a girl for not wanting to go out -it could be us. But girls, give us a chance. Ifyou're not sure about us, one date wouldn't kill you and you could always say no the next time we ask. 
Sadie Hawkins dance didn't really give the opportunity you needed, so we will. On Wednesday, Nov. 13, we're sponsoring the first "Take a Guy to Lunch Day". If 

there's any guy you've wanted to 
meet, invite him to lunch. Even 
if he can't make it, he'll certainly 
get the idea and then it will be up to 
him to follow through. You 
complain that we're too slow to 
take action, so we'll let you see 
what it's like to have to do the 
asking. 

If everyone would cooperate, 
there would be a lot less tension on 
this campus. We wouldn't be 
afraid to talk to each other, and it 
would make it easier on all of us to 
try to break the ice that so often 
forms on our intelligence. 
F-Troof 
Mike Disbro Augie Grace 
Puck Paul Shay 
Brian Sontchi Rick Supik 
Tom Young 
N.D. Graffiti 
Dear Editor: 

Recently the problem of static­
cling has come to our attention. I 
find it hard to believe that someone 
didn't speak up sooner. Hopefully 
the proper course of action will be 
taken by the administration as 
soon as possible. Issues like this 
can't be avoided forever. Now is 
the time to eliminate once and for 
all this ominous peril in our midst. 

However, this is not our only 
problem by any means. I cannot 
help but feel that another tragic 
injustice is being committed 
against the students here at Notre 
Dame. Whether you're aware of it 
or not, the University has been 
engaging in an effort to rid the 
bathroom walls of all graffiti. It 
grieves me deeply to realize that 
many students have to spend those 
precious ten minutes a day without 
the enlightening discourses of our 
Shakespeares-to-be. From per­
sonal experience I know how cold 
and impersonal those blank walls 
can be . 

I call on you, the students to 
stand up for your fundamental 
rights and fight in the war against 
blank bathroom walls. With 
persistent effort I'm sure we can 
overcome this grave injustice 
which reeks of tyranny and op­
pression. In the name of freedom I 
say, "Give the bathroom walls 
back to the students! " For more 
information on what you can do to 
support the movement, contact 
your local hall representative. 

With the stakes so high we can't 
afford to lose. 

Sincerely yours, Mike Hayes 
Forward, Into the Past 
Dear Sirs: 

Unhappily, it cannot be said ·that Mr. Dnnkard 's letter invites discussion. Sadly, his letter was an assault and as such invites retaliation. For Mr. Drinkard's purposes this must be self­defeating. For myself, his style was disappointing, for there can be nothing as refreshing as a con­servative with good manners. 
The real issue at the base of Mr. Drinkard's remarks concerns the nature and role of tradition. I would like to compare two dif­ferent ways of how tradition is experienced. 
Firstis what I refer to as the "Pieta model". Tradition, in this sense is a larger-than-life im-

Over Break 
fr billl:aabey 
pressive statue, hewn from marble 
with unquestionalbel genius of 
expression. The present 
generation must safeguard this 
while it is in their possession and 
hand on the masterpiece in tact to 
the next generation with the 
peoper instructions for its 
safekeeping. When critics 
complain that this model is too 
rigid and too sophisticated, there is 
a patent defense that a taste for it 
must be acquired as if it were 
pumpkin pie or rococo deor. 
The second is what can be called 
"the human ladder model." Here 
tradition is understood as the 
standing on the shouldiers of the 
generations of Christians who have 
gone before us. Proud to have 
issued forth from them we know 
that ours is a privileged glimpse of 
the future which was not their's to 
see. It is ours only as long as we 
stand on their shouldiers. 

Tradition is a wise and supple preceptor who teaches that the Church can learn by doing. This calls for a Church roomy enough for Mr. Drinkard's remarks, and roomy enough for mine. A Church spacious enough for Father Stella's guitar playing at Mass, for Pentecostal prayer meetings and for the ordination of the eleven Episcopalian women (and many more besides. A Church that incorporates the opinion of the Catholic Conference not to im,.. plement the option of receiving the bread of the Eucharist in another way and the cecision of those who continue to maintain that cous tom. A giant "anything goes?" No, not at all. The Church grows when critical judgment assesses . the meaning of prevailing •custom. That is why in canon law, coustom can carry the weight of law. Tradition is not like a sealed letter which we must dutifully hand on unopened. Neither is it the dead weight of past mistakes, totting on our backs, nor 
old stones wich can on no longer be deciphered . 
As a candidate for the priesthood I've been taught here to appreciate the tradition. Studying the past has given me confidence to un­derstand the present and to en­vision the future imaginatively. I know what Eliot meant when he wrote, "the way forward is the way back." 
Sincerely, 
Mr. Richard Mazziotta, C.S.S. 

Jottings from a vacation journal.... 
Miami game. First half was one of the best in Notre Dame 
history. Heard from someone after the team-Mass that there had 
been a rPnorter there who was preparing material for a book on 
sports. I tried to recall what awful things I might have said in my 
homily that were liable to be painfully memorialized in print. 
Saw Mark Sakaley. He's the junior who was paralyzed as are­
sult of. ~ c~r acci~ent last January. He is now at the Chicago 
Rehabilitation Institute. I was startled at the change in Mark. The 
therapy has done wonders. ~e looks great; spirits are high; and he 
expects to re-enroll at N.D. m January. He can get in and out of 
his wheelchair without assistance, and can do a fantastic amount of 
things for himself --quite a change from when I last saw him at St. 
Joseph hospital here in South Bend. I was filledwith admiration for 
the professionals who are working with Mark, but mostly with a 
sense of awe over the resiliency and faith and sheer guts of htis 
young man. I went away, as is so often the case, feeling much more 
ministered to than as minister: his love for life and determination 
to live it as fully as possible l'eally impressed me. His return to sh­
school is going to be a good thing for all fo us. 
Saw three good movies during break. And that's really something, consdiering the heavy supply of junk we've been gettmg from Hollywood in recent rears. They were: . 'The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz" (probably the best film ever to come from 
•Canada; with Richard Dreyfuss, of "American Graffiti," as a Jewish kid on the make); "Amarcord" <Fellini's bawdy, poignant, hilarious portrait of the characters he remembers from thetownof his youth -a return to the quality of his great "8'h"); and "Lacombe, Lucien" (Louis Malle's haunting study of a French boy who, during the German occupation of France, goes to work each day hunting down and torturing people for the Gestapo.) 
And then there was the Foreman-Ali fight. I have to admit I kind 
of wish I had seen it; and I also have to confess I was rather proud 
of a guy who could make the sort of comeback Ali has. But then I 
read about his conduct after the fight: what a let-down! I couldn't 
believe it. All the clowning and badmouthing before the fight­
well, pretty bush but possibly forgiven as a well-meaning effort at 
pshchological strategy. But then he showed a truly ugly streak; he 
continued to taunt and ridicule his opponent, who, in defeat, was 
much more the champion in sportsmanship, graciousness and 
humility. Ali not only violated the first tenet of sport -Don't kick a 
man when his is down -he went beyond kicking to figuratively 
step in Foreman's face. One fight may have restored the ch­ampionship; but Ali has a long way to go to prove himself a man. 
Picked up a paper and read this headline: "Campus Ministry Team Replaced at Harvard." My friend, Jesuit Father Richard Griffin, and his whole staff were fired by Cardinal Medeiros of Boston. Fr. Griffin has held his post since 1968 and has oftern been under attack for his social activism and liturgical experimentation. 
Sound familiar? Two recollections flashed through my mind. I recalled what a friend recently said about campus ministry: "You people remind me of a professional football coach. Everybody else thinks he can do the job better; and there is never an absence of a long line of people waiting to carry his head away on a plate." My second recollection was of the happy announcement made to us years ago when we were commissioned in the Marine Corps: "Welcome to the ranks of combat platoon leaders; you now have the expendability of a tent-peg." God bless you, Fr. Griffin, wherever you go! 
End of the break. Sweated and died a dozen deaths through three quarters of the Navy game. Finished the Watergate best-seller All the President's Men -quite a book. Wondered if this glorious weather we've been having would change just as school begins again, and whether I'd meet anybody the next few days who would NOT say, "How was your break?" WEH, it was great; hope the same is true for you. Final thought" for Fr. Burtchaell. About the scheduling this break we've just had, I have only one comment: It was too damn short! ~ 
r 
i 
I o/' pink eyes gives I em what they want 
Wednesday, November 6, 1974 the observer 
7 

a review by fred graver 
In the final analysis, when memories have particular, worked very well with the band. kid playing with everything he had. In­their feet. The band did some improvisingfaded and only the cheap trappings of rock Kiki Dee reminds one of a feminine Rod stead, there was a pudgy, balding, short guy at the end, allowing Elton to prance around and roll remain to be discussed, when the Stewart. Her voice had that same whiskey­dressed like a flashy midget boxer, (he . the stage again, and Ray to do a killer quality of the music produced is long since and·dgarettes quality about it, all full of stripped off the pantaloons to reveal a cut­mouth-percussion solo. forgotten and only the echoes of overly gravel and catarrh, coming straight from away sequined jumper), who took for The hits just kept on coming with "All the indulged decibels rings on, best rock and the gut level. granted the excitement of the crowd. Young Girls Love Alice," highlighted byroll start will be remembered by the force of Mter a short intermission the hall was He seemed to be a bit too self-confident. Davey's impeccable guitar intro. Raytheir personalities and the excitement they darkened, a fog machine covered the entire For example, when he asked the crowd popped out at the end like an outrageous 
generate. stage, and the band came on. They took "what do you want to hear?", it seemed like snake charmer to play around with the rest 
Zappa won't be remembered for his ex­their places, while the crowd roared and a joke, because Nigel had the list of songs of the band. periments in time signatures and atonality tape of "Funeral for a Friend" played in the right behind him. He knew that someone Towards the end of "All the Young Girls," and the name "Rolling Stones" will not background. would ask for the next song, so it really Elton pulled a major coup, putting the 
conjure images of excellent blues-rock A spotlight shot towards the piano bench, didn't make much of a difference. audience back in their seats in the middle of syntheses or dark devils; the only memories and there sat Elton John, dressed in silver The next song, which the crowd a song by taking the band down and turning will be of Mudsharks and Jaggers dancing satin pantaloons and billowing jacket, with "requested," turned that whole potentially a hard rock number into a dark, mysterious and prancing with Suzy Creamcheese matching high-peaked cap, and large poor performance around. Elton had been interlude, featuring some of the Muscle waiting in the wings. glasses outlined in silver and curling saving up, teasing, holding back his good Shoals horns. You've got to hand it to him,
Elton John's music will not be held as an sequins. stuff until he felt the audience was ready. he really knows how tc pull strings. example of a higher pop; nor will Bernie The mood was somber. Building up with Bomp. The sound connected with the The closing number brought everyoneTaupin's lyrics be read for an insight into pomp and grandeur, the band played in crowd, and they jumped up as if someone from fever pitch to a boil, as Elton led the 
the imagination (or the Jack thereof) of the darkness through "Funeral." At the had placed electric shocks under their seats. crowd in the chorus for "Saturday Night's seventies. opening notes of "Love Lies Bleeding," Bomp. Applause and shouting. Alright." Then, it was "thank you, good
Elton John will be remembered for being Elton tossed back his head, the lights raised, Bomp. "Hey kids ... ," it's Bennie and the night."Mr. Superpop, the personification of rock and the show began. Jets. And from then on, Elton had the crowd and roll as filtered through the master right where he wanted them, every minute. From this point on, the emphasis on showman. Directly behind Elton, on a platform, Next came "Goodbye Yellow Brick showmanship got to be a little too much. 
He's never really been good at anything stood percussionist Ray Cooper. Next to the Road," with a changed line about "it'll take Somenone must have really sold Elton on else, and in retrospect people will be glad star, he was the hardest working performer you a couple of Tequila Sunrises to get you the idea of a big encore, because he was just for Elton John the entertainer. He on stage. He constantly charmed the on your feet again." ready for it. Neon names stood lit behind almost seems to be headed for instant audience, altering his off-stage glances And then, the high point of the concert. each of the band member's posts, one spotnostalgia on his recordings, they are so old from grimaces to smiles, getting up to Elton began "Burn Down the Mission" just danced like Tinkerbelle on the piano bench and comfortable from the moment of dance in the middle of numbers, tossing as it is performed on "Tumbleweed Con­and, to top it all off, the stage crew walked 
conception. When he attempts anything tamborines to a sound man seated behind nection'', but changed the ending to a highly around checking out the equipment. All outside of the tried-and-true pop formulas, drummer Nigel Olsson, and generally charged, revivist, hoe-down. While the band added up to leave the audience without anythe effort comes off as pretentious and a bit having a great time. His big moment came cooked with a country-rock theme, Elton sense of tension or wonder. boring. when he played a set of chimes during jumped and ran around the stage, shouting Though the music was exceptional for the 
But as a performer, as a practitioner of Rocket Man, and the audience cheered for at the top of his voice, neck muscles two encores, "Crocodile Rock" and "The high theatrics and outrageous style, Elton every ring. straining, "We Got to Rock and Roll," and Bitch Is Back," the procedure left me John is untouched. His costumes, his sets, Seated next to Ray was Nigel Olsson, the crowd went berserk, shouting and wondering. at times his music and lyrics all border on looking like Elton's dark brother, with long dancing on their chairs and in the aisles. If Elton John can be so outrageous, so the line of overly decadent glitter. But he black hair and thick Welsh features, silver Lowering the excitement level, Elton took adept at playing on the emotions and moods never quite crosses the line. He never quite lame knickers and black handball gloves, time out to introduce the band and bring out of an audience both through his actions and presses the point till he becomes offensive. playing the entire concert with headphones the Muscle Shoals horn section, one of the his music, who can't he get serious, and He goes just so far with his audience, and on. . most professional horn outfits on record. attempt to do something that will surpassthen leaves them exhausted and smiling. In front, and to the left of Nigel stood They played a competent "Sick City," while the AM-pop he's been putting out on 
Sunday night's concert was a great show. Davey Johnstone, lead guitarist, and Dee the sound men did a little experimenting records? 
The audience loved every minute of it, and Murray, bass player. Dressed like a pair of with the mix. Then again, he'~ only Mr. Superpop. And 
Elton John played the part of the idolized young, respectable, rather hip English. Then, Elton introduced his new single, he really is excellent at rock and roll at its 
and adored superstar to the hilt. fashion designers, they provided the solid "Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds." The most gut level, without any excessive in­
The Kiki Dee Band began the evening. core for the band. Many times, Davey's horns seemed out of place here, as they telligence or sophistication. And he does 
The band is a perfect choice to open for guitar work eclipsed anything Elton could were being used for extraneous punctuation. provide a good deal of humor and craziness. 
Elton, playing exciting English rock, with provide. The song itself was something of a low point Where there's smoke, there's fire. And 
highly evident influences from other, more The band played "Candle in the Wind," in the concert. It is not half as effective as where there's a clown, there's a circus. 
well-known English bands. The keyboards "Rocket Man" and "Take Me To the Pilot" the Beatie's version and it seems that Elton And Elton's circus may just be about the 
were reminiscent of Yes, the lead guitar of well enough, but something was missing. I was stepping a little out of his league with best thing we have for rock and roll right 
Faces, and the drums of the Stones. The was waiting to hear the Elton John from . this choice of material. now. So who's complaining? Certainly not 
bass, though reminiscent of no band in "11-17-70", sounding like a skinny English "Honky Cat" brought the crowd back to anyone in the audience. 
scholastic hysteria and insanity 
clyteme•tra van der val)elweid• 
Observations on the Continuing Gumms­:SOciety contained therein-in our day the truth. These conversations conducted with Italian.
Buhndoggel Debate Particularly in favorite semester break diversion of the open and informed minds have done much We might add the group of students whoregards to the Intellectual -Hysteria vast majority of students and faculty alike­in reconciling in hypotheses of great threw pseudo-Viking pots and planted them Sweeping the Notre Dame Campus. -the work of Dr. Orfeo MacPherson clarity and plausability some of the con­about the campus to the extent they ap­Croombly on the disappearance of the tradictions in the separate theories in peared to be bubbling up out of the ground. 
The present report painfully incomplete in locative case for movable chattels in Latin, themselves and in their interaction. This prank was only discovered when aits particulars due to the urgency of our or Miss Lobelia Parkman's work on the Neither do we in any way call to judgment sophomore history major with the technical situation, deals with a subject painful both medicinal properties of the flora indigenous those convinced souls who adhere to their aid of an acquaintance in physics provedto the writer and to the innumerable readers to the Notre Dame Campus, the list could side only in a possible way-we might that the magnetic orientations of the pottery spread across thebroadface of this campus run on end to the pleasure of my readers to mention here for the benefits of those did not conform to that of the period ininto whose hands and to whose attention the whom such causes were the causes of their fanatics who have awakened to their shame question. The list might go on ad infinitum­popularity and solid virtues of the Ob­idealistic youth) should be forced to and might well want to obliterate their early and for those who experienced them ad server will place and commend it. Many of chronicle a wave of intellectual hysteria outrages with constructive action in defense nauseum.
those readers will see herein only the final unparalleled since the introduction of of their chosen position, "The Field-Friends The crowning insult to taste, decorum and report of a long and saddening series of Professor Darwin's Theory at the Royal of Freydis" who have been of the greatest scholarship occurred, however when the rumors which too soon emerged as fully Academy some years before the turn of the assistance in aiding Miss Gumms in the last meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of fledged anecdotes and are now dignified-as present century. But such is the sad, the arduos and delicate task of erasing the the Royal Geophysical Society waswell as such foolish things might be disgusting nature of this report's subject. 
debris of centuries from the boat house disrupted by a wild-eyed young lady ac­dignified, the histories of pettiness and While the present excesses of thought and foundations. , companied by a rock of considerable not tomuddled thinking in their active action now making themselves the rule We might mention the group of students say overwhelming proportions which shemanifestations,-by print in the extracts of a across the Notre Dame campus depend who plan to sponsor special cockroach races claimed to be covered with runes (which she learned society. upon and derive their inspiration from the at St. Edward's-the proceeds to go to a trust demanded that we read) and to have theOh that we should see such days when the debate that presently rages and has for fund designed to keep Buhndoggel well­power of speech on moonless nights-sheextracts of the Royal Geophysical Society, some little time raged between Professor supplied with index cards and to put frozen suggested that we turn the lights out. Notpublished with the sole purpose of providing Wilbuhrforce Buhndoggel and Miss Eusebia dinners on his table, nor can we overlook the only did the rock not speak, and the runes inscholars in their formative years with a May Gumms, little or no blame can be at­offer of six concerned pre-med students to question turn out to be badly · worn en­thorough yet concise, a clean yet un­tached to them for the shocking sense of treat his ulcer-courteously observing that it dearments (Jay loves Hilda being the mostcompromisingly true to the original, intellectual partisanship (if we can call any would benefit them as much as it would him. prominent> but it was necessary to relievebulletin of the work being done in a variety partisanship intellectual), sophistry These ladies and gentlemen may be the lady of six silver teaspoons and theof disciplines not always related to their (however well intentioned) and ceaseless assured of the support and approbation of speaker's bell at the door. The rock was own set in such language as any thoughtful bickering that have gone on in their name­the Royal Geophysical Society. uncommonly hard to remove owing to the person might derive meaning from and not to mention the . vicious slander and Did this column not specifically ask for difficulties in getting an elevator in thebenefit; a society which for the length of its sabotage both have had to endure, which such a response from the student body on memorial library. 
existence has out down rumors, has upheld should not be mentioned in any manner of innumerable occasions? The Royal We appeal to the sane menbers of thisthe truth-soughtit with a single mind when connection with the names of two such Geophysical Society rather condemns the academic community to unite behind this none knew its nature-; a society which has illustrious, reasonable and good natured unreasoning carryings on about campus as society to restore balance to the Buhn­on occasions too numerous to mention (well at least Miss Gumms-and Buhndoggel the attempt by a mixed group of language doggel-Gumms debate. Do not take part in mobilized all thoughtful men and women of too when he is fed regularly and properly and psychology majors who plotted to extreme acts; do not condone or sppportgood will to support of questions and work scholars. 
kidnap the ducks (and who would have those who do. Reason gently with those whowhich when answered and when done have We do not by any means condemn here succeeded too had it not been for a are caught up in this hideous insanity-take been of inestimable value to the university those followers of the debate who with 
psychology major of honor and repute who stronger measures if reason fails-they willcommunity and to society at large <we fervour tempered with reason and charity reported the foul plot to Darby O'Gill-still bless you to the latest ·generation for stern
might mention in passing for the edification 
have debated with one another the relative awaiting confirmation from the bicen­kindness in these matters only too soon. Theand enlightenment of some of our newer merits of the two positions-they are an tennial committee as chiairman for the Royal Geophysical Society appeals to all­•readers who have not yet had the leisure to example to all those who would reconcile all Preservation of the Notre Dame Ducks), members of the Notre Dame community toperuse the back editions of the Observer and things-not indeed for the sake of com­brainwash them and com­exercise judgment and not to tarnish with
the Reports to the Royal Geophysical promise's peace but for the sake of the pletely retrain them to speak modern · hysteria tbe noble metal of our dome. 


the observer Wednesday, November 6, 1974 
U.M workers walked out 
·eoal Miners strike seems certain 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A coal miners strike next week-which could dim the nation's lights, sharply curb steel production and add hundreds of thousands to the unemployment rolls--appeared certain Tuesday, despite union promises of new contract prooosals. 
United Mine Workers union leaders walked out of contract talks early Tuesday and although a union spokesman said "we're busy working on our own proposals," there seemed little chance an agreement could be achieved and a contract ratified before the 

Kissinger presents live-point plan 
War declared on hunger 
ROME <UPil -Secretary of 
State Henry A. Kissinger 
declared war Tuesday on world 
hunger and starvation with a 
five-point blueprint for global 
action. 
He said a concrete and 
concerted program could end 
hunger within a generation. He 
called on oil-rich nations to help 
pay for it. 
Keynoting the United Nations 
World Food Conference which 
had been called at his urging, 
Kissinger told the more than 
1,000 delegates from 100 coun­
tries including both China and 
Israelis say force 
not the ansvuer 
Israel Tuesday rejected the Arab summit's recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organ­ization as sole representative of the Palestinian people. It warned Arab leaders it was a dangerous illusion to think military force would solve the Middle East crisis. 
The Israeli warning was delivered even as Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger flew to Cairo to see if he could repair earlier peace efforts damaged by the Arab summit decisions in Morocco. 
It came after Israeli helicopt­er-borne troops crossed five miles into Lebanon, and blew up a house in the village of Majdal Zoun the military command said was used by Arab guerrillas. 

• 
deadline at midnight Monday. 
No further talks were scheduled, but a spokesman said the coal mine operators "fully expect to hear from the guys UMW representatives."
The contract covers 120,000 UMW members in 25 states, who produce about 70 per cent of the country's coal. Experts predicted a lengthy strike would disrupt electric utilities, especially in the southeast where stockpiles are low. 
A Georgia Power Co. official said in Atlanta the company might be forced to institute "rotating blackouts" in all parts of the state 
the Soviet Union that they must all "act together to regain control over our shared des­tiny." 
Countries . that are able to do so should build up food reserves that other countries could draw on in case of emergency, Kissinger said. Distribution of the stockpiled food should be supervised by an international agency, he said. 
U.N. Secretary General Kurt Waldheim opened the 10-day conference at the modernistic 

.t'alace or congresses on the outskirts of Rome. Kissinger gave the keynote address. 
Kissinger said the world "may have the technical capacity to free mankind from hunger" but must gear this to globally-planned storage and distribution. 
He said that immediately after the conference the United States would convene a group of major exporters to form a program for increasing food production. 
The secretary of state urged help from the oil producing countries, whom he partly blames for the current food crisis because they increased oil prices several times over, thus forcing up the price of everything else. 
The secretary of state said the oil producers have "a special responsibility" to help finance the war on hunger. 

The American secretary also indicated without naming it that the Soviet Union should join the rest of the world in building food reserves. 
if there is a prolonged coal strike. 
Major steel mills also have less than three weeks inventory of coal and the industry estimates some furnaces would start to close down within two weeks. 
The Federal Office of Emergency Preparedness estimated the spin-Qff results of prolonged strike could add 600,000 to 1 million workers to the already­high unemployment rolls. 
Michigan Gov. William G. Milliken said in Lansing he had been invited to a White House meeting of energy leaders and governors from eastern coal­producing states Thursday to 
Kissinger said the long-term picture was even more bleak than the short-range problem. He said the population explo­sion was closely tied to the food crisis. 
"Hundreds of millions of people do not eat enough for decent and productive lives." Kissinger said. "In rqilnY parts of the world 30 to 50 per cent of the children die before the age of five, many of them from malnutrition. 
"World population is project­ed to double by the end of the century," Kissinger told the conference. He said that at that rate, "at some point we will inevitably exceed the earth's capacity to sustain human life." 
He said adequate nutrition for the world by the end of the century would require 150 per cent more food, or a total output of three billion tons of grain every year. He said food reserves would require "as much as 60 million tons over current carryover levels. 
BOBBY RIGGS HOLDS COURT AT THE SOUTH BEND RACQUET CLUB 
SATURDAY NOVEMBER 9 
EXHIBITION AAATOiES 8:00 -10:00 SATURI>\Y NIGHT SPECIAL STUDENT RATE: $3.50 PERSON 
Group Lessons All Day Saturday 
4122 Hickory, Mishawaka 
For Information, Call Call 277-0711 
disucss the situation. 
Guy Farmer, general counsel of the . Bituminous Coal Operators Association, said the operators gave the UMW "an offer that in my opinion has not been exceeded in any negotiations in any major industry in total scope." 
But UMW President Arnold Miller responded by leading his officials out of the negotiating session and declzring, "With this contract proposal they've declared a strike in the coal fields." 
"There's not sufficient time for ratification and the membership will not ratify what they have given us, .. Miller added. 
The UMW's current contract with the BCOA expires at midnight Monday and the union traditionally does not work without a contract. Even with a settlement, the union's ratification procedures would take an estimated week to 10 days. 
The union's "no contract, no work" rule could be relaxed under extraordinary circumstances, or President Ford could order an SO­day "cooling off" period under the Taft-Hartley law, a procedure which has met little success in coal walkouts in the past. 
KENS DEN 
BARBER-HAIRSTYLING 
-Award winning stylists 
-Unique atmosphere Rottler sty Iing products 
703 LWW (ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER) 
INTERNATIONAL CAREER? 

A representative will be on the campus 
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 7, 1974 
to discuss qualifications for advanced study at AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL and job opportunities in the field of 
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
PLACEMENT OFFICE 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Thunderbird Campus Glendale, Arizona 85306 



_Wednesday, November 6, 1974 th~ observer 
Saint Mary's briefs••• 
~o ~he U?iversity and a very valuable personal experience. Twenty
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR 
JUmors will be chosen now to teach next r .ll. This is the only time of year
NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
you may enter the program. 
$695 $895 
The Freshman Colloquium is exempt from the proposal to charge extra tuition for additional credits.
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre ·Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
except home football game weekends. 
All who are interested in .teac~ing should come to a meeting on Friday,
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
Nov~mber 8, ~t 4:30 m. 0 Shaughnessy 104. Qualifications and 50520 U.S. 31 North 
reqwrements Will be explamed there. 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
For additional information call7321 on Thursday 1-4 or Friday 11-1. 
Cable T.V., Air Cond ., Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
LeJ.Vbns door to be opened at night 
by Mary Janca 
St. Mary's Editor 

The east door of LeMans Hall, near St. Mary's library, will remain open until 11:15 p.m.Monday through Thursday nights.
"This will enable students coming from Madeleva or the library to enter LeMans through the east door and then reach their respective dorms either through the tunnels or along the lighted path from Reignbeaux Lounge," said Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice-president of student affairs. 
This door, which is a con­venient and frequently-used entrance to LeMans, had previously been locked by Security at 7 p.m. every night. 
With the increasing reports and rumors of sexual attacks occurring at night as girls were returning to their dorms from studying in the library, Madeleva and the science building, Wernig announcedthat this door would be unlocked after October Break. 
"There will be students stationed at the east door of LeMans to let people walk through," she said in the October 18 issue of the Observer. 
"It won't be much help to McCandless residents, but it will make things safer for LeMans, Holy Cross, Regina, and Augusta residents," she continued. 
Boom change 
period begins 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 

The room change period, during which St. Mary's students may request room changes for the second , semester, officially began at noon yesterday and will continue until4 p.m. Thursday, November 7, according to Housing Coordinator Nannette Blais. 
Those who change rooms at this time will not be charged the $25 fee which is otherwise levied against a girl for moving into a different room during the academic year. 
In order to change rooms, a Room Change Request form must be obtained from the Housing Office, completed, and returned to the same office by the 4 p.m. Thursday deadline. 
When completing the request form, said Blais, each applicant must state her reasons for requesting a room change, as well as the specific room preferred. If no particular room is desired, the hall and type of 
IVJartha Phillips visitingSt.IVbry's as a Woodrow Wilson Fellow 
by Mary Janca par~icipant, was o~ganized to bring St. Mary's Editor various leaders m business and industry, the professions 
Staff Director of the House government, and journalism to ~ Republican Policy Committee select group of private liberal arts Martha Phillips is conducting colleges. seminars and lecturing on a variety of government-related These Fellows spend one week topics this week while serving as on campus in discussions and the first Woodrow Wilson Fellow to seminars with students, faculty visit St. Mary's. and administration in an effort to 
Prior to her present position, improve communications between Phillips served in a number of the colleges and the professions, educational and political posts, and to promote an interchange of including program assistant in the ideas between the two groups. 
U.S. Office of Education, staff Initiating discussion amongdirector of the House· Republican. students and faculty on current Task Force on Education and issues and providing students with Training and staff director of the an opportunity to meet House Republican Research professionals in selected fields of Committee. interest are among the goals of the 
According to Dr. Donald Horning program, said Horning. of the SMC sociology department The program is conducted by the and coordinator of the Woodrow Woodrow. Wilson National Wilson Fellows program on Fellowship Foundation, which in campus, legislative process and 1973 received a $1 million grant for procedures, pension reform, the program's establishment from elementary and secondary the Lily Endowment. education, congressional reform, Of the 200 applicants for the wage-price controls, housing Fellows program this year, 12 legislation and legislation on colleges, including St. Mary's, juvenile delinquency are among were selected. her work-related interests. A presidential dinner with SMC 
The Woodrow Wilson Fellows President Dr. William HickeyProgram, of which St. Mary's is a highlights Phillips' agenda today. 
***********************************~ 
I* C.I.L.A. I* 
: CHRISTMAS CARD SALE i * *
i NOV. 4-8 $1.75 I box ·i 
* ~ PIease suppert us! * ~ 
***********************************: 
• 

: JUNIOR CLASS : 
! SEMI-FORIML ~ 
: Tickets on Sale This Week : : Student Union Ticket Ofice : 
: $ •
: 5.00 per couple : 
room wanted should be noted, she continued. Except in the case of a single, the room­mate(s) should also be listed. 
Room change requests are handled on a first-come, first­served basis . Priority of room requests, therefore, is based on both the time and date on which the application is completed. 
The Housing Office will finalize all room changes and inform girls of their new rooms by Monday, November 12. 
No one will be allowed to move, however, until December 13, but all moving must be completed by Christmas Break. 
In addition, any student wishing to move off-campus must notify the Housing Office. If a yearly room agreement was signed for this school year, said Blais, a student may not move off-campus until another student, such as an incoming freshman, transfer student or returnee from abroad or leave of absence, is admitted as a resident to replace her. 
Furthermore, any student not planning to return to SMC for second semester must contact the Housing Office and the Office of Academic Affairs to fill out withdrawal forms, stated the housing coordinator. 
Fee charged for senester b-eak 
by Peggy Frericks Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's students who remained on campus during mid­semester break were charged a two-<lollar fee which was in effect Sunday through Friday nights of the vacation. 
Man~ students were surprised by this charge although this policy has been in existence at St. Mary's for at least four years. However, it is the first time the St. Mary'S calendar has con­tained a long vacation at this time. 
This policy is incoporated in the students' room and board contract. It demands that students pay a two-<lollar fee while staying on campus during long breaks when the dor­mitories are closed. Students participating in an academic program such as Medical Technology, where it is necessary 
volunteered their rooms for 
occupation oy students who 
stayed. Approximately 4045 
students remained on campus. 
Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Vice­President for 'Student Affairs, reported that there were some complaints concerning the policy but that opposition was not strong. The majority of com­plaints came. from Augusta residents who felt they should be exempt from this rule since their dormitory does not employ a .regular staff. However all dorms, including Augusta m~ina maintain the same room and ba .board policy to insure security 
and consistency. 
Q.zickie buses to nx:tke nine trips 
this vveekend 
by Chris Kohlmiller Staff Reporter 
The 'Quickie" north loop buses will make nine trips again this Friday, according to Ombudsman director Bill McLean. 
The project, sponsored by the Student Union Social Commission and the Ombudsman Service, will supply two 41-passenger motor coaches which will stop at several restaurants and taverns in Michigan. No "Quickie" buses will take the southern route through South Bend this weekend. 
The service will cost students 75 cents for a round-trip or 50 cents for one ride. The first bus will leave the ND circle at 8:30 and the last will leave Notre Dame at 1:30. 
The buses will stop at SMC Holy 
Cross Hall, the Boar's Head, 
Kubiak's, Jay's, Shula's, the 
Heidelberg and Portofino's. Two 
stewards will ride each bus to 
prevent students from carrying 
alcohol on the bus, McLean noted. 
McLean added there is a good 
chance that a few of the bus trips 
will service the off-campus bar 
area if interest in such sdervice is 
voiced by the passengers. 
The "F-Troop", a working unit of the Junior Class of Notre Dame, will assist with the "Quickie" this weekend, McLean said. He also noted that the St. Mary's Social Commission is aiding with the project.
for them to continue their work during the break are not affected by this charge. 
Those students who stayed on campus were required to move to LeMans during the vacation for several reasons. Most students live in LeMans, so fewer students were forced to move. LeMans remained open because it houses the administrative offices and health services. This move to one dormitory reduced the number of dormitories that must be kept open and fully staffed. 
Some students in LeMans who left campus during break 
ALL JUNIORS 
You are invited toteach in the Freshman Colloquium. Teaching the Senior-Freshman Colloquiur is a substantial contribution 
1Q the observer Wednesday, November 6, 1974 
In St.. Ed's 

Burglaries hit campus 
by Bob Mader 
Staff Reporter 
The room of St. Edward's Hall Freshman Randy Levin was burglarized last Saturday night. Approximately 40 record albums, valued at $200 and one GE stereo speaker were taken. 
The burglars removed the window screen of the first floor room 1, and pried open the window with a screwdriver. A small screwdriver with a yellow handle was left on the floor, which the security guard in­vestigating the call took as evidence. 
Levin stated that he was gone from the 1\lorn between 6 pm and 12 pm. The security guard assigned to St. Edward's said he saw three youths in the hall whom he had never seen before 

.Armed robberI hits Prebytery 
i 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter An armed robber made off with a small amount of money and valuables from the 
t 
Presbytery Sunday, after failing to gain access to the safe in the 
offices of Sacred Heart Parish. According to M James Mur­phy, Assistant Vice-President for Public Relations and Develop­ment, the thief entered the office at 12:45 in the afternoon and confronted Bernice Podemski with a revolver. He threatened to kill Podemski, the weekend receptionist, unless she opened the safe. 
Discovering that Podemski did not know the combination, the thief thrust her into an adjoining room and proceeded to ransack the offices and the residence of Fr. Joseph Fey. Fey, the pastor of Sacred Hear parish, said that some loose money and valuables were stolen -between thirty-five and fifty dollars worth, no more than that." 
Both Murphy and Fey theorized that the robber's ob­jective was the money from the Sunday collections. 
Podemski described the thief to Campus Security as a young black male, approximately 6ft. 1 in. tall, 175lbs. with a mustache. 
The culprit is being sought by the St. Joseph's County Sheriff's Office. 

around midnight. The guard 
assumed they were students 
since they seemed to be familiar 
with the hall. 

A hall security guard makes a 
routine check of the outside of the 
hall approximately once an hour 
during the night. The guard 
reported that there were no signs 
of any forced entry 45 minutes 
before Levin reported the 
burglary to security. 

When Security responded to the call at approximately 12:30 am the stereo was on the window 
Off-campus 

houses thrice broken in.to 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 

Three more burglaries of off. campus houses occupied by Notre Dame students were reported to the Observer after midsemester break. 
Saturday, October 26, Chris 
Grace's stereo was stolen from 
his home at 916 Francis Street. 

John Dangler, a resident of the 
house, said, "It occured 
sometime in the afternoon 
because Grace noticed two 
broken windows as he returned 
from the game." 

"We painted one window shut 
before break, so I guess they 
couldn't get in that one. They 
took the stereo but left the 
speakers," Dengler added. 

The house of Bill Brink, 610 N. 
Eddy St., was burglarized 
Sunday, October 27. He said, 
"Someone broke in through a 
first floor window sometime 
between 5 and 7:30p.m. when I 
was out. They took a TV, clock 
radio, and $15 in cash." 
Brink valued the loss at $300. 

He added, "I was going to move 
everything they stole to someone 
else's house for safe-keeping 
before I left for break." 

Two stereos and a TV were 
stolen from 716 Notre Dame 
Avenue Sunday , October 27. 

Bart McSorley, resident, stated, 
"It had to have happened around 
6:30 because the house was empty between 6 and 7." He approximated the value of the TV and stereos at $600. 
Dotltletthe 
price ofa college 
I l 
educationstop 
you. 
The price of a college education is skyrocketing. Fortunately the Air Force has done something to 
I ~ 
catch up with it. For the first time, the Air Force ROTC Scholarships include the 2-year program, for both men and women. 
If you can qualify, the Air Force will pay for there­mainder of your college education. Not only do AFROTC 2-year college scholarships cover full tuition, but reimbursement for textbooks, lab and incidental fees, as well as a tax-free monthly allow­ance of $100. 
To cash in on all this just apply, qualify, and enroll in the Air Force ROTC at BLDG. 5 Call Capt. Shepherd Telephone No. 6634 It's a great way to hnish your college education in the money, and build a future where the sky's no limit ... as an officer in the Air Force. 
MAKETHEMOSTOFIT
I~ 
ledge with one speaker missing. 
"It's got to be kids," Levin conjectured. "It was a very unprofessional job." Levin also believes a passerby may have scared the burglars off, since a $300 camera was left behind and no money was taken. 
Arthur Pears, director of Security, said the burglars may have been students. "They seem to have known what they wanted," he reported. Pears also said a South Bend policeman who works for security looked into the case, and requested a list of the albums in case a pick-up was made. 
St. Edward's was left open over the break by request of the rector, Fr. William Presley. Levin said there were very few students on the first floor over the break, but there might have been quite a few on the upper floors. 
Levin, in his report to security, stated he arrived back at his room at midnight, but when contacted said he came back at 12:31!1 am. Security received his 
Bend Police juvenile files for 

call at 12:29  am.  
Pears  commented  that  it  is  
impossible  to  check  the  South  

fingerprints, because of the difficulty in obtaining prints off a screwdriver. 
Pears said he doubted if the 
property will be recovered. 
181'1 



1111111Q I I 


EVERY 3 MINUTES AND 26 SECONDS another college student becomes the victim of larceny, burglary, or vandalism. 
$40,000,000 IN STUDENT LOSSES EVERY YEARI 
Incredible as it seems, students and their parents suffer 40 million dollars in personal property losses every year. Typewriters. clothing, cameras, tapes, records, glasses, calculators ... things that can easily disappear ... and do. And sadly, 25 million dollars of these losses are ·uninsured. But here are two plans that can solve this problem for 

you. 

PLAN A -ON CAMPUS This program is designed for students living in residence halls, or other university owned, operat· ed or approved housing including fraternity and sorority houses. 
PLAN B-OFF CAMPUS This program is for off·campus students not quali· lied for Plan A. 
WHAT PROPERTY IS COVERED? Clothing, TV's, Stereo Systems, Books, Cameras and all other property NOT excluded. 
WHAT RISKS ARE COVERED? Theft, fire, smoke, wind, storm, explosion, van· dalism, even riot and many more. 
IS THERE A DEDUCTIBLE? Yes, $25 on each claim. 
~ r/ite Clu t 

on U.S. 31 bttwetn llies. So. Bend·frM P•rkin&·613--C350 
I 

ARE THERE ANY SPECIAL LIMITATIONS? Jewelry and property in transit is limited to 10% of the policy amount. Stereo tapes, albums and records are limited to $100. Stereo equipment is limited to $200 unless scheduled; when scheduled, full coverage applies not to exceed the policy limit. 
THE COMPANY National Student Services, Inc., has been providing a program of student property insurance since 1971, protecting some 60,000. students from 350 campuses. The underwriter, National lndepend· ence, is a part of the National Liberty Group of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. 
YOUR GUARANTEE After you receive your policy, take up to thirty days to read it over and decide. If, for any reason, you feel that this protection is not what you want, simply return the policy within the thirty days and your money will be promptly refunded. 
Officially recognized by over 340 colleges and universities from coast to coast. 
APPLICATION FOR PERSONAL PROPERTY PROTECTION 
Moil to' NATIONAL STUDENT SERVICES, INC.• c/o National Independence Insurance Co. Streets Insurance Agency, 5017 N. Beech 0..., Indianapolis. Indiana 46254 
NAME--------------COLLEGE DR UNIVERSITY-----­SCHOOL
0ADDREss_______________ 
STATE _____ ZIP ___ NAME OF . PARENT OR GUARDIAN----------------------­

SCHOOL CLASSIFICATION' OFR OsOPH. 0JR. OsR. 0GRADUATE OR SPECIAL STUDENT 
Check the address I!J wh1ch you wuh your pol1cy ~•led 
For Office Use 
eoo. ________ 
Efloctl""-----­
p,.,..,., ______ 
Amount ______ 
Prwn•um ______ 
s-Lomit _____ 

PROGRAM A (ON-CAMPUS) BaM Policy $1600 Cover• •  $20.00  NOTE Maximum  PROGRAM B (OFF·CAMPUS) S.. PoiM:y $1500 Cover•  $30.00  
AdditioMI Cow•• is available 1n un1t1 of SSOO at a COlt of $6.50 per unit. No. of Additional Unitl __ X $6.50 •  Coverage $5000.00 on either  Addittonal Cover.ge Is avail•ble in units of S600 at a cost of $10.00 ~r unit. No. of Additional Units __X $10.00 •  
ToUI Prem1um Enclosed ($20.00 +Additional Costs) •  Program  Total Premium Endosed ($30.00 + Additionel Cadit •  

Theft or burglary los.ses under Program 8 requ•r• V1Sible stgns of forced entry. List all st•oo equipment (make. model, oorial no., date purchased and cost) on a separate shoot for full coveuge on stereo. 
leers 1-3 after CC weekend series 
---------~­
------~ -~---------­
Wednesday, November 6, 1974 the observer 
(Continued from page 12) 

Both teams slackened the pace in the second peiod, .until Badger Dave Lundeen cruised in alone on Moher, notching his second unassisted goal of the evening. 
The serond oeriod, looked similar to Friday night's disaster, until Alex Pirus ' decided to change the game. At 
19:41 Pirus· mC:t\le a super m­dividual effort to tally ND's second goal and cut the margin to 3-2. Pirus took a pass from soph Lew Curry, skated into the Badger offensive zone, took a hard wrist shot, and slapped his own rebound after Dibble made the initial save. 
Pirus' goal late in the second session turned the tide for the Irish. The ND icers came our after the intermission putting a strong pressure on Wisconsin, deep in their zone. At 5:47 the pressure payed off when Roger Bourque slid the rebound from Alex Pirus' shot past soph Mike Dibble to even the 
score at three goals each. 
Jim Augustine got the winning goal at 15:56 when he tipped Pat Conroy's slapshot past bewildered Dibble. Conroy made another sparkling individual effort, skating the whole length of the ice to set upthe winning goal. Alex Pirus put the game on ice when he scored a powerplay marker at 18: 44, with assists to Clark Hamilton and Jack Brownschidle. 
"The character our young club showed out there was very pleasing to me," ·commented ND Coach Smith. "They came back both nights, but tonight we 
didn't lo se our poise~specially Len Moher who didn't get rattled. Len made 44 saves out there and most of those were on tough shots." 
ColoradoCollege2 Notre Darnel 
The Irish hockey team returned to the friendly confines of the ACC, but lost a 2-1 decision to the Colorado College Tigers. The contest was greatly affected by soft ice andsluggishnesson the part of both teams. 
Alex Pirus got the only goal of the first period when he cruised in alone on CC goalie Dan Griffin. Pirus beat Griffin on a 15 foot wrist shot low to the glove side, with assists to Brian Walsh and Don Jackson. ND goalie Len Moher had 7 saves, while Griffin stopped 10 in the period. 
The second period's action was basically limited to a few minor penalti~ and a goal by the Tigers as both team's sluggishnesspersisted Pat Lawson tipped in a centering pass past outnumbered Moher at 12:24 of the period. 
Frosh goalie Len Moher really showedhis stuff between the posts, making six super saves when Colorado was on the po.wer play. Moher had 16 saves in the stanza, and CC netminder Griffin turned 
away 10 ND shots. 
The problem that has been bugging the Irish -so far this season again led to their downfall. The Notre Dame defense could not clear the puck when breaking out. Tiger Pat Lawson made the steal and passed to Wayne Holmes who beat helpless Moher at 2:05 of the final stanza. The Irish tried to get the equalizer, but could not cap italize on numerous op­portunities. 
Colorado College 3 Notre Dame 2 
The Notre Dame icers came out Saturday night hitting and skating, hoping to salvage a split with the opportunistic Tigers. Twice ND had golden chances-two five minute major penalites-but took bad penalties and could not seem to set up their power play attack patterns. 
Paul-Clarke notched the first score at 15:30 period when he put in the rebound from Brian Walsh's shot. The power play goal came when Tiger Greg Smith was given a 5 minute major, 10 minute misconduct, and a two gamesuspension for spearing Brian Walsh. CC goalie Eddie Mio stopped 16 .shots while Notre Dame netminder John Peterson was tested on only three. 
The second period featured one of the rare, but most exciting,parts of hockey-the penalty shot. Brian Walsh was in­tentionally tripped from behind when he had a clear path to the goal and so ref Tom Yurkovich awarded Walsh the free shot. Walsh took his time and beat Mio high to his gloveside, giving ND the 2-o lead. 
Colorado got back in the game when the Irish were caught changing lines on the fly. .John Prettyman took the centering pass from winger Jim Warner and put the disk past Peterson 9t 12:27 of 
~n~i~~~~~? ref!eived about $450,000 in the Sugar Bowl, the Orange Bowl participants, LSU and Penn State, each grossed about $583,000. 
Final announcement of the bowl bid invitation will be made 8aturday after the Pittsburgh game. The final decision will be announced by the Faculty Board. 
Irish fifth Cmd eighth 
UPI PoiJ 
I. Ohio Stat«> (34) 8-0 .. . ..349 
2. Ti«> Michigan 8-0 .. .295 Ti«> Alabama (I) 8-0 ....295 
4. 
Texas A&M 7-1 . . . 192 

5. 
Notr«> Dame 7-1 . ... 166 6. Penn State 7-1 .158 7. Flonda 7-1 . .155 


8. Nebraska 8-2 . ..120 
9. Auburn 7-1 . 73 10. Texas 8-2 . .53 
ll. Southern Cal 5-1-1 . . 51 12. Maimi Ohio 7-0-1 8 
13. Houston 8-2 . 14. Pittsburgh 8-2 
15. Maryland 5-3 I Only teams receiving votes this IH'l'k. 
Note: By agr«>ement with the Ameli­can Football Coach«>s, t«>ams on proba· lion by the NCAA af(' in«>ligible (or top 20 and national championship consider­ation by the UP! Board or Coach«>s. ThoSI' teams currently on probation af(': Oklahoma, SMU, California, Long Beach StatP and Southwestern Louis· iana. 
AP Poll 

The Top Twenty. ll'ith Hrst -placl' I'Otl's in parenthi.'S!'S, SPason record and total points. Points tabulated on basis of ll-18-1&-14-12-lll-9-8-7-8-5-4-3-2-1: 
I. Ohio Stall' (49) 8-ll-0 1.212 
2. Oklahoma (10.) 7-ll-0 . . 1.090 
3. Alabama (2) 8-0-0 918 
4. Michigan (I) 8-ll-0 850 
5. Texas A&M 7-1-0 . 643 6. Florida 7-1-0. 531 
7. Penn Stall' 7-1-0 . 522 8. Notf(' Dam(' 7-1-0. 503 9. Nebraska 8-2-0... 464 
10. Auburn 7-1-0 . 381 11. So. Callromia 5-1-l.. .344 12. Texas 6-2-0 324 13. Miami. 0. 7-0-l 149 14. Maryland 5-3-0 . :i4 15. Houston 8-2-0 42 16. Arizona St. 5-2-0 36 17. Oklahoma St 4-3-0 3.3 
18. 
California ;).2-l . . 20 

19. 
Pitt 8-2-0 . . 19 (tie) Texas Teclr :i-2-1 19 


the second session. 
The turning point of the game for Colorado came when Tim Byers' slapshot hit CC goalie Eddie Mio on the forehead part of his mask. Mter the 15 minute intermission needed to patch up Mio, the Tigers came out flying. 
Colorado tied up the game at17: 40 on a Jim Warner breakaway goal. Warner's initial wristshot was saved by Peterson, but the rebound popped straight up, and Warner somehow batted the puck past the stunned Peterson. 
Warner got his second and the winning goal in the third periodwhen the Irish defense had trouble controlling and clearing the puck in their own zone. The game ended with Notre Dame shorthanded, leaving no room for a comeback. 
"Those stupid mistakes killed us both nights," explained Coach Smith, "and there could have been 
THINK ... CQ.LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA more goals had not both Peterson and Moher played well. We can't afford to rely on individual efforts a ~h.~le team effort is the way t~ 
WID. 

Next Thursday and Friday nights the Irish host the Bowling Green Falcons for two nonleague games. For the Irish both games are must wins to get back into the winning attitude. For the -\Falcons two wins would strengthentheir bid for a playoff spot in the NCAA tournament in March. 
HARQ.D MEDt:NVl 
USED CARS AND TRUCKS 
~ 
Lafayette at LaSalle Phone 233-2129: 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

Canon Model 7. Huge 50mm. F.l. 2 lens, built-in light meter, many other features. $110. Call Kline, 6706. 
Three Pirahna fish and tank. $150 complete. Real bargain. Phone 272-3973. 
BOSE 901 SPEAKERS, $450.00. DUAL 1229 TURNTABLE, $175.00. ALL LIKE NEW. CALL 255-5414. 
FOR RENT 

Room -$40 week. Near rides, privacy, kitchen. 233-1329. 
NOTICES 

These '75 calendars at Pandora's Books: Tolkein, Sierra Club, Winnie the Pooh, Escher, Picasso, and more! 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN BUYING A NEW CAR? FORD, LINCOLN-MERCURY, PON· TIAC, OR A.M.C. AVAILABLE. CALL 232·4736 EVENINGS BETWEEN 7:00 AND 9:00 AND ASK FOR SLICK SAM'S SALES. SERIOUSLY, GOOD PRICES ON ALL MAKES. CALL NOW TO BEAT THE THANKSGIVING RUSH. 
Jennifer's: 1919 W. Colfax. Men's shirts. California and India im­ports. Sale ends Sat. 
Will do typing of any kind. Call 233­
4484. 
Jennifer's: 1919 W. Colfax. Fan­tastic sale. Tops, skirts, long and short dresses. 288-3355. 
Typing: experienced in term papers and dissertations. Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715. 
Chess Sets I I'm leaving for Mexico Nov. 11. I can bring you back a hand-crafted onyx chess set for a fraction of their retail price. Call Candy, 283-6922. 
Ski Aspen: lodging 7 days, 4 area lift tickets 6 days, breakfast • only $130. Last call Nov. 1 for $50.00 deposit. Call 6156 or 341 Farley. 
Coming Friday! THE HOP. Walsh Hall's blg bash in LaFortune, featuring D.J. Kevin Dickinson. It'll tingle your toes! II 
WANTED 

Need Pitt GA tlx. Call Chuck, 206 Grace, 1592. 
Riders needed to Chicago this weekend. Call Paul, 8854. 
Need 4 good GA Pitt tickets. Will buy 4 together or pair. Call Terry, 3462. 
Need ride to Detroit this weekend. Call Maggie, at 4437 or Sue at .C704. 
Two need ride to Chicago Fri. Call Cathy, 5435. 
Full or part-time waitress. Will train. Perkins Pancake and Steak House. 2900 Cassopolis. One block south of Toll Rd, Elkhart, Ind. Exit 
9. 
Help! l need at least 8 GA tix for Pitt game. I will top the best offer for any ticket for that game. Call 
327.C after 11 pm. 
Wanted: used short wave radio. Call Tim, 232-4927. 
Desperately need 5 GA Pitt tickets. Call 23.C-6405. 
Waitresses -waiters . cooks needed part-time. New bar­restaurant. Fat Wally's, 20-46 S. Bend, 277-0570. 
I need two GA Pitt tickets. Call Larry, 3376. 
Need 4-6 GA tix for Pitt. Call Dave, 1464. 
Need 4 GA or student tlx for Pitt. Call Bltt, 289-6010. 
Wanted: driver to drive U-Haul 
•truck round trip to Harrisburg, Pa. this weekend. Call S. B. Racquet Club and ask tor Rick. 277-0711. 
Need 2 GA tix for Pitt. Call Tom, 8398. 
Riders need to Chicgo this weekend. Call Paul, 8854. 
PERSONALS 
Joanne: we don't want to see you at the Senior Bar tonight. 
Dear World: 1got a 675. I'm in, I'm in. Oink 
To the mystery caller "spotted" at Nickle's and the A.C.C.. 1 was asleep when you called Monday night. Try again sometime. 
Welcome home Tiger. 1 missed you. Love, 
Hear ye, Hear ye, yesterday Madame FiFi ended her teenage years and by order of her most sovereign Prince has retired 1 
Ribbet, Rlbbet P.S. Happy 8-day 
Girl 22 on train, seat 22 aisle. I'm sorry. 283-6757. 
To Maryann Geek : B-RPI All we need is U. P.,B.,D. 

The Student Union Cultural Arts Commission presents Midwest Blues Festival with Muddy Waters and Big Walter Horton Fenton Robinson Saturday, November 9, 1974 8:00 p.m. Stepan Center $3.00 at the door  


.. 12 the observer Wednesday, November 6, 1974 
Irish explode, fizzle, but still win 
by Greg Corgan "Navy did an excellent job in the and lost a yard, but on the next Sports Editor kicking game," said Parseghian. play rolled right and found split "It kept us in the hole the entire end Pete Demmerle in the end zone If there's been anything con­first half and throughout most of for the touchdown. Reeve con­sistent about Notre Dame's of­the second half." verted and the Irish had a 7-6 lead fensive performance this season The other part of the Navy with just under eleven minutes to 
it's been inconsistency. The Irish kicking game put the points play in the game. are up and down more than an on the board. The sophomore from Harrison iced it nine minutes· elevator operator at the Empire Orlando, Fla., broke a Naval later when he picked off a Phil State Building. Academy record early in the first Poirier pass and with some nifty 
From 31 points against Georgia period by booting a 48 yard field running returned it 40 yards for the Tech, to 49 against Northwestern, goal. The play was set up after score giving the Irish a 14-6 lead. ND managed only 20 against ND's Ron Goodman fumbled on his "I think we wore out a little in Pur~ue, 1? with Michigan State, 10 own 42 and Navy recovered. The the fourth quarter," said Navy agamst Rice and then exploded for Midshipmen drove to the Irish 31 coach George Welsh. "We've been 
48 against Army's Cadets. where they stalled and Dykes playing good defense the last three And the past two weekends the kicked the field goal. or four games. Irish have continued to play Dr. The Irish didn't come close to "Our big trouble all along has 
Jekyl and Mr. Hyde. scoring in the first period but been the offense. We didn't have 
Two weeks ago against Miami drove to the Navy 20 in the early much today. We definitely felt six the Notre Dame offense displayed minutes of the second quarter. points wasn't enough, but we made an awesome first half attack which Dave Reeve attempted a 27 yard them work for it." accounted for all the scoring in the field goal which was wide to the "I've been in coaching so long I 
:l8-7 romp over the Hurricanes. right. The rest of the half turned don't know what the hell to expect Last Saturday against Navy in out to be apunting dual between anymore," said Parseghian. Philadelphia, the Irish made a 18o­Stuffenbeem and ND's Tony "Tom <Clements) didn't have one degreee turn. Brantley who averaged 40.2 yards of his better games <five of 22for 59 
In the first half they moved into per kick in five attempts for the yards, two interceptions). After Middie territory only once, and afternoon, and Navy took a 3-o lead all, even Sandy Koufax got despite 341 total yards, the offense into the locker room at halftime. knocked out of the box once in a 
managed only seven points. The The third quarter wasn't much while. But when the demands were 14-6 final score reflects a "beyond different. The Irish offense con­really placed upon him he put the the call of duty" performance by tinued to founder and :Dykes added touchdown on the board and then the defensive unit as Randy a 37 yard field for the Naval later controlled the football with 
Jim Stock (48), Randy Harrison (10) and the rest of Irish "D" was theHarrison returned an interception Academy. Notre Dame drove 61 that long drive." 
biggest bright spot in Saturday's 14-6 win over Navy.
40 yards for the final score. yards to the Navy 17 with fullback The long drive Parseghian 
"We simply did not execute Wayne Bullock doing most of the referred to was a seven play, 75 several lapses. Basically the when he returned a pass in­offensively," said head coach Ara work, but on second and six yard drive which ended with difference between our team today terception 44 yards for ND's fourth Parseghian after the Navy game. quarterback Tom Clements was Clements fumbling and set up and our team earlier in the year is tally. Clements, who was 13 of 19 "The offensive effort was not what intercepted by John Sturges on the Harrison's interception four plays the elimination of errors." for 154 yards and two touchdowns, we are capable of. Maybe we were goal line. later. Besides that, the Irish scored next on a twisting eight a little flat, and I think there was Notre Dame finally put things "It's a win," said Ara, "that's capitalized on Miami's errors. yard run, and just before the end of somewhat of an emotional letdown together in the fourth quarter. all that counts." A little over two minutes into the the half hit tight end Ken MacAfee after last week's game against The defense, which was superb Parseghian had more than that game, Clements hit a wide-open with a four yard touchdown toss. Miami, but you can't take anything all afternoon in allowing the to say about the previous week's Pete Demmerle with a 47 yard The second team offense took away from Navy. They didn't do Middies only 138 total yards, once demolitionof Miami. scoring strike after the Miami over the in the second half, but anything special; they just simply again forced Navy into a fourth "We played a very fine first half, secondary had blown the coverage. they were unable to get on the played a super game." and long situation. our best so far, and we took ad­Five minutes later after the board. Still, the Irish managed to 
Parseghian probably thought Stuffenbeem 's "short" punt vantage of many of their errors to Hurricanes Mike Latimer fumbled accumulate 423 yards while the they had Superman punting. Navy went 41 yards to Goodman who get points on the board." Brantley's 69 yard punt, Bullock defense held the high-powered specialist John Stuffenbeem returned the ball 15 yards to the Ara may have spoken too soon crashed into the end zone to make Hurricane attack to 218, and one single-handedly kept the Irish off Navy 28. Clements and halfback after that. the score 14-0. Reeve added a 28 third period touchdown. track in the first half. Stuffenbeem Mark McLane picked up nine "We have now turned the corner yard field goal in the first quarter "Notre Dame is an excellent 
punted six times, averaging 48 years apiece on successive plays, and have improved considerably and Miami quickly found them­football team," said Miami Head yards and kept the ball in the air so and Bullock barrelled for five over our earlier performance," he selves trailing 17-0. Coach Pete Elliot. "They have fine long that the Irish were unable to more down to the Navy five. said. "Our offense executed well Randy Harrison cashed in on ability and all around know-how 
set up any kind of return. Clements then fumbled the snao and our defense did too, despite Miami mistake number three that makes them a top-ranked team. Today they beat us both physically and mentally all over the field. They rarely make any
ND icers start WCHA season slowly 
mistakes and I must admit that we did help them with our early

Perkms on a ten foot wrist shot -· 
mistakes.

by Bob Kissel between his legs. Pat Conroy got ..
,.,.,_. "Notre Dame's team last year
the assist on the play. ­
was a great ball club. This year'sSomewhere between Wisconsin answered at 7:14 of team could be as good as lastWisconsin's Dane County Coliseum the peroid when freshman Craig year's, but they have to proveand Notre Dame's ACC ice rink, Norwich's slow slapshot eluded ND 
'­,. -themselves the rest of the year onthe Irish hockey team lost the netminder John Peterson 

the playing field."

momentum the icers worked so somewhere in his pads. The Irish The Irish won't have to provehard for against the Badgers. regained the lead when center anything this week. Their nextAgainst Wisconsin, the Irish took Clark Hamilton scored an game is November 16 with the No.
home an encouraging split, but unassisted goal at 10:56 with some 20 ranked Pittsburgh Panthers.
returned to ACC ice and dropped a ~ersistent forC~>hecking help from pair of games to Colorado College. hnemates Pat Novitski and Kevin Nugent. 
lrishOrcm~

Wisconsin 5 Notre Dame 4 Wisconsin was certainly not finished scoring in this wild first Friday night's October 25th per! od, as Steve Alley, with Bowl bound? 
league opener against the assists to Dave Lundeen and Don For the second time in three 
I 
Wisconsin Badgers was a game Deprez, poked the rebound in at years, the Irish may be Orangetypical of the intense rivalry 11 :10 after Peterson made the Bowl bound. Such was the wordbetween the two clubs. Referees\ initial save. Wisconsin took · the from Miami this week as oneMedo Martinello and Gordy Lee lead for good at 12:47 of the Orange Bowl source said Monday
handed out 17 minor penalties and opening stanza when George 
in the Miami Herald that there 
i 
had to intervene in numerous near­Gwozdecky put a hard slapshot would likely be a rematch between
fights. past frosh Peterson. Assists were Notre Dame and Alabama thisThe Irish broke out quickly from awarded to Mike Eaves and Mark New Year's Eve, but, this time inthe initial faceoff with aggressive Capouch. 
Miami.

forechecking and backcheckin~, The second period was all Although Athletic Director Edbottling up the Badgers in their Wisconsin as the Irish could not "Moose" Krause issued aown zone. With only 23 seconds break out of their zone into an statement yesterday stressing that gone in the opening period, offensive movement. When a ND Notre Dame "has not yet takensophomore team captain Paul blueliner lost the puck coming our Len Moher watches as Colorado College's Wayne Holmes flips the puck any definitive action on any bowlClarke beat Badger goalie Dick from behind his net, Dave Lundeen into the net. 
proposal and will not make anywas there to steal the puck and decision until the coached, team

shoot it past surprised ND wrist shot past Badger goalie At 2:23 of the opening period Pat 
and the Faculty Board, in that

nlCket sales s1OW goaltender John Peterson, only 29 Perkin Conroy took a well-placed outlet order, have had an opportunity to
seconds into the period. Tim Byers seemingly gave the pass form the ND defense, 
discuss the situation available,"Student season basketball John Taft made it 5-2 for the Big Irish a glimmer of hope at 18:59 muscled into the Wisconsin zone, the rematch seems inevitable.

tickets are currently on sale at the Red on a slapshot from the blueline when hescoredhis first goal of the and centered the puck to winger Only an Alabama loss to the Tigers second floor ACC ticket office. when the Badgers were allowed to year, with an assist to Pat Conroy. Jim Augustine. Augustine easily of LSU this Saturday appears as aOnly 1200 tickets have been sold on screen Peterson. About the only Coach Lefty Smith pulled Peterson flipped the puck past sprawled possible obstacle to the January 1Monday and Tuesday to seniors ND highlight of the period was the out of the net with the hope of the Badger goalie Mike Dibble. 
showdown.

and juniors. Plenty of good seats successful penalty killing, led by tie, but to no avail depite repeated Fifty seconds later Steve Alley are still available to the grad and Pat Novitski and AI Karsnia, of a shots on the Wisconsin goal tender. knotted the game when he beat The reason for this year's switch law students (Wednesday), two man advantage for Wisconsin. Irish netminder Len Moher, who to the Orange Bowl is no secret, 
even in New Orleans. Because of asophomores (Thursday), and The third period opened with Notre Dame 5 Wisconsin 3 was swamped by red shirted 

freshmen <Friday). The revised Wisconsin retreating intoconser­Badgers. Dave Lundeen increased "better TV deal. ..they can offer prices are $22 for lower arena and vative hockey, hoping to sit on It was apparent from the start Wisconsin's lead to 2-1 when he more money than we can," said $18 for bleacher seats. The ticket their 5-2 lead. The Irish were not to of Saturday's contest against the scored a shorthanded goal, getting one Sugar Bowl source. Last 
office is open from 94 and students be denied and came back at 14:04 Badgers that themomentum from the breakaway chance from Notre year's figures prove that the more should bring their ID cards, their on a power play goal by Kevin Friday's late third period rally Dame's confusion on the power lucrative deal is in Miami-while prepunched IBM cards, and their Nugent. Paul Clarke sent a perfect wouldcarryover to the secondgame play at center ice. Alabama and Notre Dame each remittance. feed to Nugent who put a 20 foot of the series. (Continued on page 11) (Continued on page 11) 
j 






