
J 
On The Inside 
Birdsell Project ... page 6 Fr. Griffen 
... page 11 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 60 Friday, January 18, 1974 

The aftermath of Thursday night's laundry fire shows part of the scorched metal shelves and one of the burned clothes baskets. (Photo by Mike Kulczckil 
Laundry loses shirts in blaze 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 
Flames flared up in the Notre Dame laundry building shortly after dark Thursday night, destroying part of a wooden shelf and burning some clothing. 
Contained within a clothing assembly area of the buidling, the fire was extinguished quickly by the Notre Dame Fire Department. Six units of the South Bend Fire Department also answered the call, made at 7:20p.m., but the fire was tapped out before their arrival. 
An unidentified security officer said that an employee of the laundry was driving past the building shortly after 7 p.m. when she spotted flames inside a window. He said she alerted Security, who in turn alerted the campus and South Bend fire departments. 
Fireman Paul Bognar said that he entered the building and found "two clothes baskets and the shelf" burning. He said that clothing, "mostly undershirts," was also burning in a metal set of shelves near the wooden ones. 
The fire also blistered the paint on the metal shelves in addition to singeing some nearby jerseys and shirts. 
Fire officials were puzzled at the cause of the blaze, as no electrical wiring or outlets were near the burned area and the laundry had closed almost three hours earlier. 
Notre Dame Fire Chief Br. Borromeo Malley specualted that the fire could have smoldered on the wooden shelf for hours before bursting into flame. He refused to elaborate on what could have started the smoldering. 
He set a damage estimate at $1,500. 
Bud Wynn, assistant manager of the laundry, assured students that laundry service will be only slightly slowed because of the fire. "It won't slow things up except the clothes in process in the area," he said, refering to clothing damaged by smoke and water in the fire's immediate area. These clothes, plus a number of sheets, will all have to be re\ .tshed, he said. 
He anticipated few problems for students whose clothes were destroyed. "We have complete records o: what was in each student's bundle," he said, indicating that the laundry would replace the destroyed articles through University insurance. 
He said the laundry will be operating as usual Friday morning. 
Nixon: lA first stepI 

Agreement set 
•

lD Middle East 
By United Press International 
Israel and Egypt, with the "assistance" of 
U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, have reached agreement on the separation of their armed forces on the Suez canal front, it was announced in Washington, Cairo and Jerusalem Thursday. 
The accord, details of which were not disclosed, will be signed at noon (6 A.M. EDT> Friday by the Israeli and Egyptian chiefs of staff at the U.N. checkpoint Kilometer 101 on the Cairo-suez highway. Finland's Maj. Gen. Ensio Siilasvuo, commander of the U.N. Emergency Force, will witness the signing. 
President Nixon, in making the an­nouncement of the announcement of the historic breakthrough, said: "After four wars ... this is the first significant step toward a permanent peace in the Mideast," Nixon said. 
Conference recessed 
The Middle East peace conference in 
Geneva, sponsored jointly by the United 
States and Soviet Union, had been recessed 
pending a settlement of the troop 
disengagement issue. 
None of the announcements from Cairo, 
Jerusalem or Washington mentioned Moscow 
which is co-chairman of the Geneva con­
ference with the United States. Israeli and 
Egyptian dispatches indicated earlier 
there would be a simultaneous announcement 
in Moscow but none was forthcoming. 
The fact Russia was not mentioned em­
phasized the personal nature of the 
Kissinger triumph. 
Kissinger is now expected to turn his efforts 
to bringing Syria into an agreement on the 
separation of its forces and participation in 
the Geneva talks· 
Nixon pledged to "personally ... see that all 
negotiations, any efforts that can lead to 
permanent peace ... will have the full and 
complete support of the United States." 
The agreement was believed to include an 
Israeli pullback about 20 miles into the Sinai 
Peninsula on the eastern bank of the Suez 
Canal, freeing the trapped Egyptian Second 
Army, and a thinning of Egyptian forces on 
the east side of the waterway. A corridor of 
United Nationstroopswould be between them. 


Kissinger busy 
The agreement climaxed a week of in­tensive negotiations during which Kissinger shuttled almost daily by plane between Egypt and Israel since his arrival in the Middle East last Friday. He met three times with Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and other officials in the upper Nile resort city of Aswan and three times with Israeli leaders in Jerusalem. 
It came on the 85th day of the latest Egyptian-Israeli ceasefire and 103 days after the start of the fourth Middle East war last Oct. 6. 
An Israeli spokesman in Jerusalem said the cabinet unanimously approved the disengagement formula earlier in the day, following a series of meetings between Kissinger and Israeli leaders in snowbound Jerusalem. 
He issued the following statement: "In accordance with the decision of the Geneva conference, the government of Israel and Egypt, with the assistance of the Government of the United States. have reached agreement on the disengagement and separtation of their military forces. 

"The agreement is scheduled to be signed by the chief of staff of Israel and Egypt at noon local time Friday, January 18, at kilometer 101 on the Cairo-Suez Road. 
"The commanderof the United Nations Emergency Force, General Ensio Siilasvou, has been asked by the parties to witness the signing." 
A similar announcement was broadcast by Radio Cairo. 

Israel and Egypt signed their cease-fire stabilization agreement in a khaki U.N. tent · at the sandy Kilometer 101 site Nov. 11. Siilasvuo had mediated the talks between Israeli and Egyptian generals on the im­plementation of the cease-fire agreement. The talks broke down after 10 rounds Nov. 29 when the two sides failed to agree on disengagement. 
The disengagement of the two armies was the only clause in the cease-fire agreement that had not been implemented. 
Full text of Nixon's 
announcement 


on page 4 
While no details of the agreement were disclosed, the Israeli government did say Prime Minister Golda Meir will address the Knesset parliament Tuesday at which time she will make a statement on the security and political situation. 
Israeli sources have said the disengagement formula involves an Israeli pullback from the west bank of the Canal and its forces on the east side to 20 miles from the waterway. 
Egyptian forces on the east bank, the 2nd Army in the north and the trapped 3rd Ar­myto the south opposite the Great Bitter Lake, then would be thinned out , the sources said. 
The third step would be the deployment of 
U.N. forces in a strip between the two sides, the sources said 
Diplomatic sources in Aswan said the with­drawal must be completed within about six weeks. 
They said Israel would retain control of the strategic Mitla and Giddi Passes in Sinai. The Egyptian sources said Israeli troops also would hold some positions west of the two passes. They said the U.N. Emergency Force would be deployed in a buffer zorre between the new Israeli lines and Egyptian positions, which at some positions are nearly 10 miles into the Sinai . 
The sources said the agreement was ex­pected to provide for Egyptian and Israeli "security zones" on either side of the U.N.­held buffer zone. They said heavy and long­range armaments would be prohibited as a mutual safeguard in the security zones. 
The disengagement agreement, the sources said, • consists of two parts-general provisions and a timetable for implementation. 



J. 
t_; '"\'~'-'· :.! 

------------------------------------------~------------------------------~ 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Vice President Gerald R. Ford and a federal energy official preotcted Thursday that the agreement to disengage Egyptian and Israeli forces could mean an end to the embargo on Arag oil exports to the United States. 
But several members of the Congress doubted that the embargo cwould be lifted because of the agreement, announced Thursday by President Nixon and expected to be signed Friday in the Middle East. 
WASHINGTON <UPI! The White House Thursday promised full cooperation with an FBl investigation of erasures on a key Watergate tape, but asked a federal court to dismiss the Senate Watergate committee's bid to obtain five tapes for its own inquiry. 
Acting at the request of special porsecutor Leon Jaworski, the FBI began Thursday what a spokesman called an inquiry into "the whole matter of the tapes," presumably for evidence of such criminal ac­tivity as obstruction of justice or perjury. 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-Chairman Peter W. Rodino Jr. of the House judiciary Committee cut short a recess Thursday to meet with the head of his impeachment inquiry staff on the swift-moving events of the past week. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-The white House announced Thursday 
President nixon, who now can point to a major diplomatic 
breakthrough in th Middle East, will personally deliver his State of the 
union address to Congress on Jan 29. 
White House Deputy Press Secretary gerald I. Warrenn said the 
speech will be given before a joint session of the senaet and house at 
12:30 p.m. EDT. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-The government reported Thursday the U.S. economy slowed to near-recession levels in late 1973, disrupting President nixon's hopes for a "soft landing" from a two-year economic boom. 
an c::.31npu• today 
s pm--mass and dinner. bulla shed 
6:45 pm--pep rally, featuring digger Shumate, gary novak, stepan center 7 pm--swim meet, nd vs. bowling memorial 
phelps, john green, rockne 

7:30pm--hockey, nd vs. michigan tech, ace 7:30pm--wrestling, nd vs. depauw, ace 
7:30 & 10 pm--film, "'he life and times of judge roy bean, "washington hall. $1.00 8, 10, 12 pm--film, "duck soup," flanner's america, free 
saturday, january 19 
noon--basketball, nd vs. ucla, ace arena 1 pm--wrestling, nd vs. marshall, ace 2pm--music, ladies of nd music group, library aud. 7:30pm--hockey, nd vs. michigan tech, ace a& 10 pm--film, "spider's stratagem," engineering aud., 51.00 
sunday, january 20 

3 pm--concert, indianapolis symphony orchestra, o'laughlin aud. 3 pm·--rally, salute to the national champions, ace 6:30pm--meeting, psychology society, room 217 psych bldg. 
'>~~~..­

Nine members sign 
Petition calls for calendar reevaluation 
by George Velcich Staff Reporter 
Nine administration and faculty members signed an academic council petition calling for a re­evaluation of the 1974 fall calendar. 
Most cited student reaction and incomplete debate as their reasons. 
The petition, written by Academic Affairs Commissioner Chris Nedeau, was signed by nine non-student" members of the Council, and presented to Provost Fr. James Burtchaell, and for­warded to University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. The Council then set a meeting for Friday, January 24, to discuss the question of the calendar, which would begin classes August 28 with a nine-day break at the end of Octtober. 
Both Drs. Arthur Quigley, _Electrical Engineering, and James Robinson, English, agreed that when the Council first passes the Calendar, the strong student portest was not anmticipated, and that the students have legitimate questions which should be voiced. 
James Frick, Vice President for Public Relations and University Development was impressed with the students' viewpoints expressed at the Dillon Hall HPC meeting last year, and feels as do most of the others, that not all sides have been heard. 
Dr Don Linger, chairman of the Civil Engineering Department sees a formal hearing as necessary, because much of calendar debate passed unresolved 
"There are too many loose ends and we must have all the people heard." 
Dr. William Liu, Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, also attended the Dillon Hall 
Thtt Obnrnr is publiShed dllily during the college semnter ttxcl!pt vac11tions by the students of lhtt University of Notre Dame lind St. Mary's Collegtt. Subscriptions may be purchased lor S8 per semester ($14 per ye11r l from The Obsttrnr Box Q, Notre Dllme, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre O.me, Ind. 
46556. 
meeting, and feels "the issue was need for a longer mid-semester not aired out" Although he had no break from schoolwork and the preference at this time about the pre-Labor Day start with its en­calendar, he recognized that the suing loss of a week's salary for 
sudents had more to say about the many students. Liu feels a com­subject. Liu views the calendar promise must be reached, and debate as a conflict between the thus, signed the petit~on. 

Frick 

SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
Thru June 15th, 1974. 

HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
· 

Commentmg on the petition, Academic Affairs Commissioner Chris Nedeau stated that although the Academic Council must remain non-political, it must still maintain its responsiveness to the students and their needs. "Now it is up to the students themselves to make their professors aware of their situation." 
The Council called an execugive committee meeting to set guidelines for the full meeting on January 24. 

MATINEE and EVENING 


MONDAY &TUESDAY 
JANUARY 21 and 22 at 
2:00 and 8:00 p.m. 
The American Film Theatre 
Presents 

STACY KEACH ROBERT STEPHENS· HUGH GRIFFITH 
-AFll/t\ DIRECTED BV­
GUY GREEN 
INDlV'DUAL TICKETS AV~ILABLE MATINHS $4.00-EVENINGS $5.00 
Special matinee price for students and senior citizens .2.50 
Telephone 
259-9090 
J 

Friday, January 11, 1974 the observer 
·;.: , ~ ....?~'"~· ..... ,' ..~ • . , 

Agnew to sell Washington hOme 
cost was due to labor or Nixon, a spokesman for the Agnew is fighting possible
KENSINGTON, Md. <UPI> -Agnew purchased the Geor­
involved permanent renova­Secret Service said. disbarment as an attorney in
Former Vice President Spiro T. gian-style mansion near Bethes­
tions, a GSA spokesman said Agnew has taken a job as a Maryland, his home state
Agnew is trying to sell his da, Md., for $190,000 in late 
suburban Washington home for 1972. One of the two real estate what was "retrievable and consultant to J-W Industries, a following his resignation as vice reusable" would be removed by California firm headed by president last year when he
at least $100,000 more than it firms he has retained to sell it 
the government. Frank Jamison, the husband of pleaded no contest to tax
cost him a year ago. said Thursday his asking price 
"Certainly we can't take out actress Eva Gabor. evasion charges.
The difference is about equal was "in excess of $300,000." 
a driveway but we can retrieve
to the government's cost of The Washington Post said it 
the electronic devices and some
making security renovations of was $325,000. 
of the other hardware." He said
the house and grounds. A Before Agnew moved into the 



Ex-student kills principal
the value of what could be
spokesman for the General house, the Secret Service 
recovered was slight. Two persons were wounded as
Services Administration, which installed a new brick and CHICAGO <UPI>-A 14-year-old 
spent $125,000 for security redwood fence, bullet proof The Secret Service still boy expelled from the Clara the youth fled the office. Gordon glass, a new driveway and protects Agnew with an undis­Barton Elementary School for Sharp, an assistant principal, was
precautions at the request of 
the Secret Service, said Thurs­parking area, special lighting, a closed number of agents since disciplinary reasons returned to hospitalized in guarded condition smoke detection system and an his resignation last October. the South Side school with two guns with a gunshot wound. Ezekial
day he thought the "apprecia­
tion does not come from the electronic security system. Whether the protection will Thursday, shot and killed the Thomas, a security guard, was security installations." While most of the $125,000 continue is up to President school principal and wounded two shot in the chest and was 
other persons, one critically. hospitalized m critical condition. Witnesses said the boy, iden­An eighth-grade teacher, Peter tified as Steven Guy, walked into Smith, 29, also was hospitalized
Monetary committee proposed 
the first-floor office of Principal with injuries suffered when he fell 
Rudolph Jezek and began firing down a flight of stairs during the two pistols. Edward Brady, chase which followed the security chief at Chicago Public shootings. Smith was in good Schools, said the youth entered the condition. principal's office shouting, "I don't Brady told police Guy ran from want to go to Mosely," a correc­the principal's. office after tional school to which he had been shooting Jezek and fired a shot as transferred following his expulsion he fled down the first floor from Barton Wednesday. Brady corridor. said the youth then pulled out .44 He said the boy then bounded up and .38 caliber pistols from his the stairway to the third floor, pants pockets and fired at Jezek, pursued by Thomas and a city striking him twice in the head. policeman. Thomas was shot Jazek was pronounced dead on during the chase. arrival at Little Compnay of Mary Brady said a total of nine shots 
Hospital. were fired. 
SMC Social Commission 
Tevye & Golde from Fiddler on the Roof Jan. 25 $2.00 students 
8:15pm $3.50 public 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
-.' 
the observer Friday, January'.l8, 1974
4 
Text of Nixon's Mideast statement 

WASHINGTON <UPit -The text of President Nixon's remarks Thursday about the agreement on disengagement of military forces in the Mideast: 
Ladies and gentlemen, I have an announcement that I am sure will be welcome news not only to all Americans, but to people all over the world. The announcement has to do with the Mideast and is being made simultaneously at 3 o'clock in Cairo and in Jerusalem as well as in Washington. 
The announcement is as follows: 
"In accordance with the decision of the Geneva confer­ence the governments of Egypt a!ld Israel, with the assistance of the government of the United States, have reached agreement on the disengagement and separation of their military forces. 

The agreement is scheduled to be signed by the Chiefs of Staff of Egypt and Israel at noon, Egypt-Israel time, Fri­day, Jan. 18 at kilometer 101 on the Cairo-Suez road. 
The commander of the United Nations emergency force, Gen. Silasvuo has been asked by the parties to witness the signing." 
A brief statement in regard to this announcement I think is in order: 
First, congratulations should go to President Sadat, to Prime Minister Meir and their col­
rf 
leagues, for the very construc­
·? 
tive spirit they have shown in
•{
i( 
} SMC briefs 
!
·(. 
Saint Mary's girls stranded at Notre Dame need no longer walk or hitchhike back to their campus. 
I 
Saint Mary's Security will pick up one or two Saint Mary's girls if they have missed the last shuttle bus back to Saint Mary's, Anthony Kovatch, Director of Saint Mary's 
{ 
Security explained. This service also applies to Saint Mary's girls who become ill or need to to return 
to Saint Mary's for some other reason. 
J 
This service does not apply to groups of three or more girls. Kovatch feels groups can safely walk back to Saint Mary's. 
Kovatch added that if a Saint 
Mary's girl is in South Bend with < neither a way back, nor cab fare,
( 
she should take a taxi. Her Dorm
( 
Director will then loan her the money to pay for the r"ide.{ Kovatch advised the girls not to hitchhike from the city proper,I especially at night.
( 
Saint Mary's Security has added 
r 
two additional officers and in­
( 
creased its budget to cover the 
{ 
additional salaries, Kovatch stated.
< 
"New lighting is in the process of ~ being OK'd and put in because of I the diligent work of the Saint( Mary's Student Government," ( he said. 
~ 
\ 
/ Food money 
f 
Dr. Edward L. Henry, president } of Saint Mary's College, has an­( nounced that the College's budget 
and finance::ommitteeof the Board 
I 
of Regents recently voted to ap­
( 
prove a $13,000 expenditure to
( 
upgrade the quality of Saint
{ 
Mary's College food service.
/ 
Rising food costs had forced the
( 
food service operation to mOdify
( 
the dining menus during the first
( 
semester of the current school
( 
year. 
~ 
\ 
reaching an agreement on the very difficult issues involved which made this announcement possible. 
And also, we in the United States can be proud of the role that our government has played and particularly the role that has been played by Secretary Kissinger and his colleagues in working to bring the parties together so that an agreement could be reached which we have just read. 
The other point that I would make is in regard to the significance of the agreement. In the past generation there have been as we know four wars in the Mideast followed by uneasy truces. This I would say is the first significant step towards a permanent peace in the Mideast. 
I do not understate, by making the statement that I have just made, the difficulties that lie ahead in settling the differences that must be settled before a permanent peace is reached, not only here but between the other countries involved. 
But this is a very significant step reached directly as a result of negotiations between the two parties and therefore has it seems a great deal of meaning to all of us here in this country and around the world who recognize the importance of having peace in this part of the world. 
The other point that I would make is with regard to the mle of the United States. Our role has been one of being assist­ance to both parties, to bring them together, to help the narrow differences, working for a fair and just settlement for all parties concerned where every nation in that area will be able to live in peace and also to be secure so far as its defense is concerned. 

Looking to the situation in the world generally I think that we could probably say that the area of the world that potentially is the one in which the great powers can be brought into confrontation is the Mideast. That area more 



Bruin-Bust at Stepan 
The Fighting Irish, already national champions in footbai!, are now seeking a national cham­pionship in basketball. Their first thrust at the number 1 spot takes place tomorrow when the Irish take on the UCLA Bruins. The B•·uin-Bust begins tonight at 6:45 
p.m. with a pep rally at Stepan Center. Co-eaptains John Shumate and Gary Novak and Head Coach Digger Phelps will speak. That's tonight at 6:45 in Stepan, leaving plenty of time to get to the hockey game at 7:30. 
•

Security offers ride serv1ce 
With the new funding, students will once again have unlimited choices of entrees, other than specialty items, and steak will be se1·ved on a more regular basis. This becomes effective im­mediately. 
Dr. Henry explained that the approval was secured so as not to burden the students with ad­ditional food costs. 
"The arrangement enables us to return to the the standards that were enjoyed by our student body in the 1972-73 school year," stated Henry. 
Summers in Europe 
Summer programs in Rome and London are scheduled this year by St. Mary's and are open to all interested college students. 
No language prerequisite is 
•·equired for the Rome program, which offer up to eight credit hours in archeology, Italian art, and Italian language and culture. Students will live in doubles and 

triples in a pensione, and several 
tours to other Italian cities are 
tentatively scheduled. 
The Rome program extends from June 23 to August 2. Room and board, tuition and travel ex­penses are included in the $1,000 cost. Deadline for applications is February 25. Further information and forms may be obtained from Sr. Alma's office, 115 leMans. 
The London program is under the auspices of the History Department. Up to nine credits are available in History 280 (study tour), History 333 ( History of England), and History 350 (the City in European History). A trip to Paris and travel in Europe are optional. 
Cost of the May 20-June 20 London program is $795, which includes transportation from New York to New York and all ex­penses, except summer school tuition. Information and enrollment is being handled by Professor Anthony Black, 346 Madaleva Hall, office phones 4948 and 4831 and home phone 272-3726. 
SMC Social Commission presents 



Pete & Tillie 
Saturday, January 19 
0'Laughlin Auditorium 
7:00pm Admission 9:00pm $1.00 
than any other is in that category, as recent events have indicated. 
Now the announcement we have made today is only a first step, but it is a very significant step. It paves the way for more steps, which can lead to a permanent peace. And I person­ally shall see that all negotia­tions, that any efforts which could lead to that permanent peace, not only between Egypt and Israel, but between the other countries involved, have the full and complete support of the government of the United States. 
RoGERS 


Optical 
lOGfR ATWEll. -OWN!tl 
HOIJit$, M0H • TUES • THUI. • Rl 'AM .5:31) PM W!D • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPI.fTf "'I!CI'AGLI 
SEIVICI! All flf ot.'S I'IIUCRIPTIONS HONOIEt 
e..!! 

289-7809 


The Observer 
Needs 

Typists! 
*Musttypeat least 50wpm *starting salary $1.60/hr. *Call Howard at 1175 
SET ASIDE A WEEKEND THIS SEMESTER. TO LIVE YOUR LIFE AT A DIFFERENT PACE. 
Retreats 
Jan. 25, 26, 27  Jim Burtchaell C.S.C.  
Feb. 1, 2, 3  Phil Bowers, M. M.  
Feb. 8, 9, 10  Dave Burrell, C.S.C.  
Mar. 22, 23, 24  
Apr. 26, 27, 28  

Reservations taken in Campus Ministry Office, 103 Library. Fee $5.00 ($3.00 non-refundable deposit) 
Friday, January 18, 1974 the observer 
5 

Sent out ]an. 8 

Energy shortage delays receipt of grades 

by Virginia McGowan Staff Reporter 
Students receiving their grades later than usual or not at all can blame the energy crisis instead of inefficiency on the part of the Registrar's office, according to Richard Sullivan, Registrar. 
"January 3 was the first time we had enough grades in fl'Om the professors to make the processing worthwhile," said Sullivan. "There was no magic date we had to send out the grades." 
Sullivan hypothesized that the delay was due to a combination of factors, " the time it took for the grades to come in from the faculty, processing to avoid discyepancies, and the post office. All the grades were sent out by January 8. If any were late it was due to the energy shortage which slowed the mail service," he said. 

Sullivan, his two assistants and ten clerical workers began the manual processing of grades for 8500students as soon as the faculty turned them in. The grades were 
White House laTNyers urge courts to avoid confrontations 
The White House lawyers urged the court to stand by '·'the time honored constitution­al tradition" of staying out of confrontations between the legislative and executive bran­ches of government. 
Some of the five tapes already have been turned over to a federal grand jury investigating the Watergate scandal. The intention of the committee's efforts to obtain the tapes was to establish a precedent that would permit it to gain possession of additional tapes and documents. 
Nixon's lawyers noted this in pointing out that the commit­le.e, headed by Sen. Sam J. Ervin Jr., D-N.C., had served three additional subpoenas de­manding that he produce "hundreds" of tapes and documents. 
" ...It is clear that such a massive invasion of the White House constitutes 'wholesale public access to executive deliberations and documents' tending to 'cripple the execu­tive a~ a co-equal branch,"' the White House brief said. 
Nixon's attorneys argued that the court lacks jurisdiction over the President and that granting the committee's plea would constitute "an unconstitutional attempt to interfere with the confidentiality of private re­cords of conversatiOns oetween the President of the United States and his closest advisers relating· to the official duties of the President." 

The White House attorneys argued that Nixon had been cooperating with the commit­lee's investigatiion on a volun­tary basis and contended that "it should remain voluntary if our constitutional traditions are to remain intact. 
"It is for this reason, and this reason alone, that the President continues to resist the efforts of the Senate Select Committee to coerce disclosure of information the President deems contrary to the public interest.." 
Stevie Wonder leads 

GraDliDY no1ninations selected 
HOLLYWOOD <UPI>--Blind 
singer-composer Stevie Wonder led 
the list of candidates Thursday for 
the music industry's Grammy 
awards with six nominations, two 
as a com poser and four as a singer. 
Blind since birth, Wonder's "You Are The Sunshine of My Life," was nominated for song of the year, record of the year, best rhythm and blues performance and best rhythm and blues song. His ren­dition of that song was also nominated for best male pop vocal performance. 
Wonder's "Innervisions" was in 
the running for album of the year. 
Roberta Flack, winner of two Grammies in 1973, was nominated this year for record of the year, album of the year and best female pop performance of the year, for "Killing Me Softly With His Song." 
The National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences said presentations will be made March 2. Therewere26lnominations in 46 categories. Final ballots were mailed to judges this week. 
Among the nominations announced Thursday were:­Record of the Year: "Bad, Bad LeRoy Brown," by Jim Croce; 
ND-SMC centers form talk groups 
In an effort to improve male­female relationships on campus, the Counseling Centers of Notre Dame and St. Mary's have established small discussion groups on problems of sexuality at Notre Dame. 
Topics will include sexual roles, identity and intimacy. 
There will be five groups, each comprised of five men and five women. Each group is scheduled to meet for two hours each week beginning the week of January 28. Sessions are scheduled for Mon­day, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings and Monday and Tuesday afternoons. 
To register for one of the discussion groups, students can call the Counseling Center at 4835 between 8:30 and 5:00. 
"Behind Closed Doors" by Charlie Rich; "Killing Me Softly With His Song" by Roberta Flack; "You Are the Sunshine of My Life" by Stevie Wonder; and "You're So Vain"by Carly Simon. --Album of the Year: ""Behind Closed Doors" by Charlie Rich, Billy Sherrill, producer; "The Divine Miss M" by Bette Midler, Joel Dorn, Barry Manilow, Geoffry Haslam and Ahmet Ertegun, producers; "Innervisions" by Stevie Wonder, Wonder producers; "Killing Me Softly With His Song" by Roberta Flack, Joel Dorn producer; and "There Goes Rhymin' Simon" by Paul Simon, simon producer. --Song of the Year: "Behind Closed Doors" written by Kenny O'Dell; "Killing Me Softly With His Song" by Norman Gimbel and Charles Fox; "Tie a Yellow Ribbon Round the Ole Oak Tree" by Irwin Levine; "The Master of Space" by Leon Russel Brown. "You are the Sunshine of My Life"by Stevie Wonder; and "You're So Vain," by Carly Simon. 
-Best New Artist of the Year: Eumir Deodato, Maureen McGovern, Bette Midler, Marie Osmond and Barry White. 
-Best Female Pop Vocal Per­formance: "Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy" by Bette Midler; "Danny's Song" by Anne Murray, 

"Killing me Softly With His Song" by Roberta Flack; "Touch Me in the Morning" by Dianna Ross; and "You're So Vain" by Carly Simon. 
--Best Male Pop Vocal of the Year: "And I Love You So"by Perry Como; "Bad, Bad LeRoy Brown" by Jim Croce; "Daniel" by Elton John; "There Goes Rhymin' Simon" by Paul Simon; and "You are the Sunshine of My Life" by Stevie Wonder. 
Student injured Wednesday night 
Mark Sakaley, a junior from 
Howard Hall, was injured Wed­
nesday night in a two-car accident 
after running a stoplight at the 
intersection. of Niles and Colfax 
Avenues, South Bend Police said 
yesterday. 
Sakaley, from Washington, D.C., 
i~curred spinal injuries after being 
hit broadside by a car driven by a 
South Bend resident, and then 
striking a telephone pole. 
Sakaley, who was driving east 
on Colfax Avenue when the aC'­
cident occurred, remains in 
critical condition in the intensive 
care unit of St. Joseph's Hospital. 
Police sources stated· that the 
car Sakaley was driving sustained 
damages of $2,500. The other 
automobile recieved damages of 
$500. 
No other details were available. 
MISSED OUT? 
If you have not tried the Army ROTC program this past fall, you still have the opportunity to catch up with your contemporaries already in the program. There is no commitment to further 
military service by taking Army ROTC this semester. 
ArmyROTC 111 
read on the the computer by January 3 and returned on January 7. "They were in the mail the next day," said Sullivan. 
Sullivan also stressed that any academic probation or dismissal cases are determined only by the dean's office. 
Commenting on the fact that some students were irritated at receiving their tuition bills before grades, Sullivan held that the Registrar's Office and the Office of Student Accounts "operate completely independent of each other. There's no reason to hold up either the billing or the grades because one ofthem is not ready." 
Emerit Moore, Director of Student Accounts, said all bills were sent out by December 29 with the request that accounts be set­tled by January 5. His office allowed a little leeway by ac­ceptingpayments until January 8, after which encumbrance cards were given out. 
"If a student does not re-register there is no charge for the spring semester," Moore explained. "If he or she registers and withdraws within ten days, he forfeits $300. However, if grades will affect a student's decision to re-register, that student can send post cards to his professors beforehand. 
"Every educational insitution in the country sends out bills ahead of time," Moore continued. "If there is zero balance on an ac­count, there is no bill sent. And refunds are made to academic dismissal cases." 
According· to Moore, all un­dergraduate payments received so far have already been processed by his six member staff. Graduate students, however, are requested to settle their accounts by February 1. 

INDIANAPOLIS SYMPHON 
Sunday, Jan. 20 Olaughlin 3:00pm St. Mary's 
s 175
s 1 students public 
Courtesy of The National Endowment for the Arts and Indiana Arts Commission 



. '< 
, • \\ •, I • ' 
... 

the observer· Friday, January 18, 1974
6 

Help for South Bend chicanos-­
They call it the Birdsell Project­a small, light-green frame house on Birdsell Street on South Bend's lower west side. Together with a nearby brick home occupied by Sisters of St. Joseph, the house serves as headquarters for a new urban min is try to the Spanish­speaking. 
Known variously as the Mexican Apostolate, Apostolado Chicano, or simply the Six, the people associated with the year-old project are part of an important 

Observer lnsirahl
link between chicano farm workers and the possibility of escape from migrant labor. For many Spanish-speaking families, that escape takes place in South Bend. 
Fr. Robert Baker, diocesan vicar for the Spanish-speaking and resident assistant at St. Joseph Hall, is one of the Six. He describes South Bend as a "second step" in the problem of farm workers. 
"The Migrant Stream comes up from Texas in five directions," he explained. ''One of those goes to Michigan, which hires the most migrants after California. On the way, they pass through Indiana, and some stay." 
Only some. Most cannot. City 
housing is expensive--too ex­pensive for many families on scant farm wages--and red tape is long and complicated. The old problems of the farms were at least familiar to them. But before a family can settle in a city, it has to be able to survive in a city. 
"Part of the problem," Baker noted, "is one of living in a strange culture. What happens most often is that people go to someone they know, and that person takes them to someone he knows, and so on within the community. Finally they reach someone who knows what do do either through us (the Six) or some other group, or whatever authority is necessary." 
In most cases, there is help. The Birdsell organization handles such problems as housing, utilities, loans, medical care and tran­sportation. The Midwest Council of La Raza, an advocacy group with offices on campus, and the more conservative League of United Latin-American Citizens <LULAC), deal with other services also geared toward settled migrants, Baker said. 
Settling Out 
Lucia Florez, whose family recently moved into South Bend from the Michigan farms, says her family has "settled little by lit­tle," largely with assistance from Birdsell. 
"We moved in with my husband's family," she explained, families in the past has been outstanding medical bills," he commented. "St. Joe Hospital has offered a lot of assistance and freedom through their Social Service Department. But St. Joe doesn't handle maternity cases." 
Because of the customarily large size of many chicano families, especially in farm backgrounds where children are needed to help in the fields, pregnancies are an important medical concern, he added. 
Memorial Hospital, a 12-story facility with two outpatient clinics, handles nearly all local maternity cases. It does not have a social service department. St. Joseph, smaller than Memorial, has a pastoral care department and a social service staff of three, which some consider inadequate. 
Memorial Hospital's only social worker is employed by its business office. 
Assistant Administrator Robert Scheibe explained Memorial's policy: "We are not in the social service business. There are agencies for that. Rather than to take the responsibility on ourself, we try to identify the patient's problems and find a way to follow up the case." 
"There's a difference of opinion on how involved you should be," he continued. "The average patient stays at this hospital 7.2 days. You can't do much in that period of time." 
Memorial Social Worker Charlotte Meyes says here work starts at 7 a.m. and often extends into the evening. 
"I could use help," she said. "I've even considered volunteer help, but my office is too small for more than one person. But I'm holding my own." 
Much of her help, unnamed, comes indirectly from Birdsell. An organization known as Christ Child supplies baby-care kits to new "and we tried to find a house. We were lucky-we got this house cheap." 
For years, she said, they had wanted to settle out. 
"When my kids were little," she continued, "we didn't have anything. We wanted to be able to SC;nd them to school, but we didn't think we could. We nev~r thought we'd be able to settle down. When we got here, my husband went to the employment office and El Centro (an advocacy organization recently moved to Plymouth, Indiana), but they didn't help much." • 
Through St. Vincent de Paul, she continued, the family was referred 

'We try to promote dignity and sell-reliance•••' 

,; 
(
d 
( 
d 
;( 
/
!(
(( (( 
((
;,; 
I' 
(( 
)( 
·r 
"' 
SEE IT "LIVE" ON BIG SCREEN CLOSED CIRCUIT T.V. 
DIRECT FROM MADISON SQUARE GARDEN 
Tickets on sale now at Box Office. All seats $9.90 (advance), $ll.IXl <at door). Mail orders accepted. 
MORRIS C1VIC AUDITORIUM 211 N. Michigan Avenue Downtown Sooth Bmd, ~ 
CILA MEXICAN DINNER 
806 St. Louis

Sun. 4:30pm for info & rides call 233-7089 6766 




TAEKWONDO 

DONG SIK KIM HEAD INSTRUCTOR: One of the highest black-belts in the world 
+KOREA NATIONAL MASTER INSTRUCTOR +INTERNATIONAL MASTER INSTRUCTOR +UNITED T. K. D. FED. MASTER IN­STRUCTOR 
Teaching at 13 colleges & Y's in U.S.A. including 
N. D., St. Mary, Indiana, Bethel. 
FREE: 1. I.D. (1 yr Good), BROCHURE, TERMINOLOGY 
2. ALL CLASSES IN THE SCHOOL (1506 MISHAWAKA AVE. See the Yellow Pages.). MICHIGAN STATE, CLEVELAND, BOSTON, PHILA, WASHING. D.C. 
*SPECIAL BEGINNERS CLASS Mon-Fri *ADVANCED, BLACK-BELT CLASS ACC 
CALL: 283-3275 (campus) 289-1278 (school) 233-7279 (instructor) 
INSTRUCTORS: KIM (Head Instructor) HENRY (SECRETARY SKALSKI (Chief Assist) JED ANDREW (PRESIDENT) BELTRANENA FABREGA(SECRETARY)
I 
to Sr. Susan Olekszyk, a member of the Apostolate. 
"Sister asked me what we needed, and I said 'everything,' because we didn't have anything. She helped us," Florez said. 
Father Baker says the situation of the Florez family is not un­common. It was because of such cases that the project was founded. 
"We try to promote dignity and self-reliance, without ignoring the needs people have," he added. "If people do need food and clothes, it's because they don't know their way around. Many people, for example, don't know where to go for a doctor." 
Medical Problems 
For some, finding a doctor is only the beginning of the problem. If a situation is too serious to be handled by a free clinic, hospital bills become a major concern. 
Lee Guarnieri, a volunteer budget counsellor who handles 

New families live 'from one financial problem to the next.' 
referrals from the Six, says new families settling out often live "from one <financial) problem to the next." Hospitals, he says, can provide a series of such problems. 
"It appears that a large part of the financial burden on these 


Starts Tonight I 


PLUS: "Merchants Space Party" Corned 
mothers in needy families, but Memorial Hospital won't distribute them. Lee Guarnieri will. 
"The sets are packages of basic baby needs," Guarnieri explained. 
"They include diapers, blankets and so on. We've been able to give out three in the past couple of weeks." 
Township Trustee 

Patients who cannot pay bills are usually referred to the Portage Township Trustee's Office, the agency responsible for welfare administration. The Trustee is then expected to investigate cases requesting aid and to provide assistance where need is established. Robert Shaddick, assistant trustee, says his office is "efficient and fair." 
"When someone comes in who Ia poor, we try to provide what they need," Shaddick said. "We take an application, determine a need, and then decide how to proceed. All we require is an address. We have to know that the individual is residing in Portage Township. We try to be fair. Of course, there are cases where we could stand on some people with a blank check, and they still wouldn't be satisfied." 
Trustee Shaddick says he is 


Friday, January 18, 1974 the observer 

Dodtletthe






the Birdsell Project 
price ofa coDege 
aware of the complaints. "This 
education stop
by Tony Proscia
office has been crucified in the 
they could be sold to families at cost. Then, too, the family itself could help with repairs on the houses before they got into them, to build up a confidence and a sense of identification with the home." 
One plan being considered by RENEW is the leasing of homes to students at low rents in exchange for repairs. The plan has not yet been finalized, she said. 
Inexpensive public housing is available through the South Bend Housing Authority, but waiting lists are long. 
Financial requirements are rigid. A family of nine is not eligible for housing if its adjusted income js over $7000 per year. Some projects also require families to pay for utilities. Some require up to $125 admission fee. 
On the other hand, one chicano family that found public housing at only $30 per month says that their neighborhood is so dangerous that they are afraid to leave their home. They have tuned to the Birdsell arm on RENEW, Inc. for another house. 
Education 
"Something has to be done about education for Spanish-speaking students," said Sr. Susan. The drop-out rate is fantastic. About three-fourths of them never finish school. Some children are 16 when they get out of eighth grade. They don't even bother to go to high school." 
Fr. Baker sees need for some bilingual instruction in schools where the Spanish speaking enrollment is highest. Oliver and Harrison schools and Washington High School lead that list. 
"Part of the problem," Baker explained," is one of living in a northern culture as opposed to that of Texas-a lot of people have problems with the school situation because it's not bilingual here. In Texas it has to be; here· it doesn't. So kids who think in Spanish can't perform in English bilingual summer program here." 
Tutoring and summer programs are federally funded under the Title I program, he added. 
Much tutoring is also done outside the school system. Education Task Force provides its own tutors, many of whom are Notre Dame students, in cases of particular need. 
In addition, bilingual religious instruction, sponsored by the local diocese, was begun this year by the Birdsell Apostolate. ND senior Bob Raccuglia is a volunteer teacher in the program. 
"We're involved in very basic religion," Raccuglia explained, "things like 'Who is Jesus?', 'Love one another', 'The Church is a family'-that type of thing. We also have a four-week program of in­struction for adults--mainly parents of the children in other program. The prupose is to help parents talk to their children about the Church, about religion, and also for a broadening of their own understanding of Christianity." 
The "Migrant Mentality" 
Principally, the Birdsell philosophy is one of eliminating problem conditions more than just making them more bearable. It becomes, said one volunteer, a 
IMPEACHMENT 
* Beer 25¢
because I love my Country 
With flag in red, white & blue. Bumpersticker: $.35 @, 5/$1, 100/$12. Smaller sticker: $.35 @, 10/$1, 100/$5. Fast delivery, Constitutional Enterprises, Inc., 
*Mixed drinks 50¢ 
non-profit, PO Box 54129d, Atlanta, Ga. 303011 LOCAL REPS WANTED 
*live music *No cover charge
Main Church 

Sunday Masses 
5:15 p.m. Sat.  Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
9:30 a.m. Sun.  Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.  
10:45 a.m. Sun.  Fr. James Shaughnessy  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.  






you.
"two-edged sword" --a problem of 
injustice on the one hand and 
The price of a college education is skyrocket­
ignorance on the other. Deacon Tom Lemos, one of the 
ing. Fortunately the Air Force had done some­Six, says he is "more worried 
thing to catch up with it. For the first time, the 
about a general lack of com­
6500 Air Force ROTC Scholarships include
munication" than over individual symptoms. 
the 2-year program, for both men and women. "When people consistently have 
If you can qualify, the Air Force will pay for
problems with food stamps, or are cheated out of welfare, and can't 
the remainder of your college education. Not get public housing or health care, 
only do ROTC 2-year college scholarships
they begin to distrust everything 
cover full tuition, but reimbursement for text­
public," he said. "How do you restore trust? We not only have 
books, lab and incidental fees, as well as a tax­the problem of finding help, but of 
free monthly allowance of $100. 
getting people to believe in it once we find it." 
To cash in on all this just apply, qualify, and Fr. Baker suggests the difficulty 
enroll in the Air Force ROTC at Building 5 
is one of a lifestyle derived from 
Contact Captain Shepherd, 283-6634 
farm life that makes living in the city more difficult. 
It's a great way to finish your college educa­"I don't really believe the real 
tion in the money, and enjoy a future where 
problem is poverty as much as of 
the sky's no limit ... as an officer in the Air
adjusting out of the migrant mentality to settle down and to live 
Force. with the complexities of what it 
means to be up here and survive," Baker noted. "They are used to moving from house to house, city 
Want to do something
to city, job to job. They have to come out of that. "There's a really heavy work ethic with most of these people. 

worthwhile for yourself?
They work and they work hard. • They work in factories. They work two shifts. Husband and wife work. Jobs are available, some people make good money. But a 
If you have at least two years left at Notre 
Dame you should investigate the Army ROTC
lot of people don't know how to 
handle that, or get taken to the 
Program on campus.
market by people who sell them 
There are openings for enlisted veterans who 
cheap insurance, or charge them 
have the additional opportunity to apply for a one
too much rent. The bigger 
year full tuition scholarship. Veterans may opt
problem is survival skills and 
for either a 3 month or a 2 year active duty
knowing how to use them." 
commitment after commissioning. Non-veterans interested in earning an officer's
Strike closes schools 
commission should inquire about the Two-Year Program. Individuals in this program are
NEW YORK <UPD-A main­tenance workers strike for higher 
eligible for two and for one-year scholarships. 
If you desire further information, visit thewages forced the shutdown of more 
than a third of the public schools in 
Army ROTC office on campus or call 6264. 
the nation's largest city Thursday, and officials said half the system would close on Friday. 
The schools walkout left 
facilities throughout the city without heat and garbage pickups, and forced 294 schools to close. Of the 1.1 million school children in the city, 388,619 stayed home 

Army Rare
Thursday. The Board of Education 

said Thursday night 541 of the city's 950 schools would be closed Friday, boosting the total of studen stay-at-homes to 546,000. 
Schools Chancellor Irivng Anker said although many of the city's schools "cannot function because 
no. 1 of the health hazards created by the strike," some community school boards have decided their schools must function." 
The schools were closed in the 
Celebrationdispute with Service Enployees Union Local 74 and the In­
(continued on page 14) 

Monday Jan 21st 
•t 
J 
•j 
• 
press," he claimed. "We are constantly being criticized. Some of it may be justified but most of it is not." 
Housing 
Another incident, Guarnieri noted, involved a family recently moved to South Bend from Texas. Like many, they first lived with relatives and conditions were crowded. 
"The Township Trustee," he charged, said he would not help because they already had a home. When I explained the cramped conditions, he told me he was sorry but there was nothing he could do." 
If the family stayed with their relatives, the Trustee could not act. If they left, they could not have furnished the required ad­dress. Either way, the family lost. The Birdsell Apostolate stepped in. 
Sr. Susan Olekszyk, one of two nuns in the project, handles many such housing problems. 
"We have a project called RENEW, Inc.," she commented, "that was started with Fr. Ken Mailey at Christ the King Parish. The idea of it is to take houses that need repairs and get people who needed jobs to fix the houses. Then as well as other students. They become ashamed because they look stupider in class, they keep quiet and don '!learn. And they get labeled." 
The school corporation, he says, doesn't recognize a need. 
Superintendent of Schools Donald Dake admits the bilingual program is "very limited," but says his office is still recruiting qualified Spanish-speaking faculty. 
"When we can find teachers, we've hired them," he explained. "But we haven't really sought teachers on the classroom level. We're more interested at the moment in counsellors who can work with all the Spanish-speaking students outside the classroom situation, acting as a kind of liaison between the students and their homes." 
Only one such counsellor exists, Dake said. 
"We are looking for another," he continued, "but as yet haven't found anyone. Instead, we rely heavily on the very excellent tutoring programs, many of which are bilingual, especially the 
Bilingual programs aid in migrant adjustment 

•. 

·~ 
1-.! 
'f( 
·I 

;
i( 
l 
i 
·( 
w (r ' 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Bl•siness Manager Jerry Lutkus Dan BerrettEditor-in-Chief Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos 
Advertising Manager
BUSI"'~SS: ?111-7471 
Friday, January 18, 1974 
. -----~-----­
Y'all Come! 
Sunday night the staff of The Observer will incorporate a new idea--the first Observer open house. The open house will run every night of next week after nine o'clock. The idea behind it is to give the students of the campus a chance to see how The Observer is put out, to meet the people who work on it and to share some talk and views with us. There is no obligation attached to showing up in the office to look around, in fact we hope you do come even in you have no intention of ever writing a newspaper article or laying in a piece of copy. 
Naturally, we hope that you will enjoy what you see and be inspired to join us in our work, but if that does happen, it will be good result of the open house. 
We especially encourage those students 
who do care to work for us to show up 
anytime next week during the open house and state their intentions ...or...if you prefer a more structured format, any interested students wishing to become staff members should come to our staff meeting Tuesday night in Room 2-D LaFortune at 7:00. 
Or.. .if you've ever worked on a high school publication and you were not sure if you wanted to work on a college newspaper, come take a look. Just 
because you didn't work for us first semester doesn't count you out. 
But beginning Sunday night and run­ning through Thursday night, we invite everyone to come and look, talk and just watch for a while exactly what we do to put out a daily newpaper for this campus. 
To find us, follow the signs up from the south stairwell entrance of LaFortune Student Center. Y'all come! 
The staff 
Book Bargain 
The Student Union Book Exchange is a real bargain. Not only is it a bargain, but it's a dynamite idea. And as evidenced by the crowd of people gathered in the Exchange and the numbers of students who have wandered into the Observer office hunting for the service, everyone knows that's it's a bargain.
Book buying time is a rip-off anywhere you go as book prices are generally in­flated byond belief, but in the Exchange, students can at least get a fair shake. 
And doubly important, everyone here is no longer at the mercy of the gent who buys books every year here and does you a favor by offering a quarter or thirty cents for your one-year old unmarked volume. 
A student service of this order has been a long time in coming as opposition tc it has been strong in certain circles. But fortunately what has been talked of for so long has finally become reality. 
Jerry Lutkus 


Miles Ta Ga... 
Around This Corner... 
butch ward 
It's becoming increasingly difficult as the years go on to welcome the New Year with anymore than an exchanged kiss and a chuckle at the dripping patrons of Times Square. What once was a time of in­spiration and determination has become little more than an excuse to enjoy a night out and change a tired calandar's landscape. 
For the New Year used to be a sign of hope. It's coming was reason to trust that around the very next corner was an event that would dispel the weary doubts of the old year. When Guy Lombardo began the countdown and ten seconds later we breathed a sigh-of relief that the New Year really did pick up where the old one left off, there was reason to expect better. 
But that's all changed now. At least, it's getting harder to be happy that the New Year really does pick up for the old. 
Whenever I return home for the month-long semester break I find myself suddenly thrown back into the world. Suddenly I'm reading newspapers, watching nightly news, and most importantly, watching the people who are trying to run a household react to the news in those papers and on those shows. 
And where I come from, there aren't many smiles accompanying the announcements out of Washington these days. 
It would be tragic enough if America was undoubtedly immersed in bonafide fuel and food shartages that were forcing these spiraling pl'ices. But is she really? Sometime during the last few years my innocence was rudely replaced by a certain degree of skepticism. 
And why not skepticism? America has proven her ability during the past year to give a person the benefit of the doubt, but she continually returns redfaced from her confrontation with trust. How long can people tolerate a man who expects an entire nation to swallow a story that his secretary's foot stood rigid for eighteen minutes upon a recording device's control? 
How long can these people tolerate a man who claims to have lost tapes crucial to an investigation of his office? How long does it take for skepticism to filter through a people as they watch cabinet members and advisors pass through the White House as quickly qS vacations pass at Notre Dame? 
We continue to hear claims of innocence and non-involvement from the White House, yet the tapes keep turning up lost, the ones that turn up have blank gaps, and those who question from within keep boarding planes outward bound, one-way, from Washington. 
And now, America, we have no fuel. 
And now, America, we are running out of bread. 
And yet, a survey taken in Maryland during December showed that that state had 16 per cent more fuel in its reserves than at the same in 1972. And it had that after selling more fuel this year than ever before. Newspapers in that same state have carried pictures of tankers standing full and still in the Chesapeake Bay. Not a few tankers. Not a few barrels of oil. 
Those same papers have carried accounts of conservations with tugboat operators, the men who watch oil pass into the Bay ports daily, as they tell of workloads equal to or greater to those of previous years. 
But let us accept, and give the benefit of the doubt. 
And now, we are told of a wheat shortage. 
Really. This wheat shortage story has to be considered excellent material for the writer of fantasy. America is running out of wheat. America, who ships tons of the grain to the Soviet Union; America, who until last August paid her farmers not to farm their land; America, who burned tons of grain every year, is running out of wheat. 
And the result? Naturally, the price of bread will rise. Yes, America, by spring you may be paying one dollar a loaf for natures' staff of life. That's around the same time that gasoline should be around the sixty-cent per gallon mark. But let's not be skeptical. Let us pull together and sacrifice. 
What we are sacrificing, America, is our pride. For a man is making a fool of us. If that sounds unfair, then let him prove other­wise. So far he has proven nothing while all his claims have simply raised more doubts. And America does not need a leader she cannot trust. 
Far too much money was involved in Nixon's re-election. Money that came from large and wealthy corporations which didn't get that way by giving something for nothing. Pardon me if I question their patriotism as I pay that dollar for my loaf of bread. 
And so, I'll begin this new year still searching for that corner around which will come the end to despair in America. But I question whether that corner exists as long as the pres<.nt administration does. 
But let us give the president credit. Perhaps he has finally happened upon the plan that will eliminate the source of much of America's despair and his greatest enemy: the newspapers. After all, when the 
energy's gone and the lights go out, we won't be able to read them anymore. Happy New Year. And Impeach the President. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Joe Abell Assistant Night Editor: AI Rutherford Layout: Maria Gallagher, Gary Allietta, 
Bill Brink, Terry Keeney, Ann McCarry, 
Bill Murphy Day Editor: Terry Keeney Copyreader: Greg Rcwlnskl Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Pictures: Jerome Phillips Typists: Phil Orscheln, Mike Seidel, 
Howard Halle, Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Howard Halle 
/-18 
Friday, January 18, 1974 the observer 
9 


Mayhem, Muggers and Molly's 
art ferranti 
New Orleans. For those who experienced that city on that glorious weekend no more can be said. It was a three to four day love affair, ending as abruptly as it began with only a lingering memory being rejuvenated with the echoing of 


Ms.r:Jivintas Paper Chase 
Hugable Henry Kissinger smacked his legendary lips and finished the stuffed grape leaf. 
"More salad?" asked Anwar Sadat, in one of his rare good moods. Kissinger had just exchanged two playboy bunnies for two Israeli POW's. 
"Don't mind if I do," Kissinger replied, and the salad was passed. 
"Could Iha ve some vinegar and, ah. . . ? " 
"NO more oil," Sadat said firmly. 
Just then the phone rang; as usual it was for Kissinger and as usual it was the Boss. 
"Yes, he'll accept the charges," Kissinger told the operator. "What's new, Boss? (In hushed tones) Not another national emergency? Immediate negotiations? But what about the Middle East? Ok, I'll be right back. And pick up a roll of what on the way home?" 
President Nixon stepped of the United Airlines commercial flight looking slightly perturbed and was immediately surrounded by reporters. 
"Mr. President, what's the purpose of this Clemente?" "Because there's not a single -+ $ ! roll of toilet paper in the White House!" 
Touchdown, Notre Dame! And what do you know, fans, there's a lady fielding rolls of toilet paper down there on the 
40-yard line!  How about that, fans?  
"Darling, how very ingenious! Who ever thought of using toilet paper rolls as party fguests will be so tickled! You're so clever!"  would avors!  have The  

Actually, I just did it so the guests wouldn't rip off my bathroom. Yes, they were expensive-they cost more than the roast." 
The managing editor slammed the figures down in front of 
him. 
"Did you know our circulation has almost doubled in the last month?" he fumed at his assistants. 
"What's so bad about that?" asked a naive editor aspirant. 
"We break out backs to put out a good newspaper and what thanks do we get? Complaints that our newsprint's stopping up toilets!" 
He peered around the corner of the hallway. The butler was safely sound asleep in a wing chair; he knew the maid wasn't due to rise for another 20 minutes at least. Slowly he inched the old window up, up--no sound--there! His sack was heavy, and it was tough trying to see out of the nylon stocking maks, but his booty was worth it. One leg out, two­
"All right, we've got you covered! Drop that sack and hands up!" · 
The beefy Chicago policeman wasn't kidding. He hand­cuffed the hapless plundereer and confiscated exhibit A-54 J"Olls o{ toilet paper. 
....~. -----------­
"Madame, plt>ase don't squeeze the Charm in'! That roll is for display only!" 
"Is it the last one you have?" 
"Last one we may ever have. We're thinking of sending it to the Smithsonian." 
"And the big prizes awaiting the lucky seventh caller in radio station WART's crisis giveaway are: five gallons of gasoline! A loaf of bread! A pound of real hamburger! And, last but not least--six rolls of toilet paper!" 
"Terrible, terrible, this toilet paper shortage. Riots in Japan. Shoving in the supermarkets. Inflation in the black markets." 
"Yeah, but I'm ready. I saw it coming. Been stocking up for six months." 
"You don't say?" 
"Yep. Couldn't quite afford a new car, so I invested the cash in toilet paper ... bought out every A & Pin St. Joseph County." 
"You don't say? Where do you put it all?" "We stuffed our matresses and pillows with it. Store rolls under the bed and sofa. Keep it in the empty bread box. Stocked the doghouse. Et cetera." 
"How's Fido taking all that?" "Oh, he died two weeks ago. Starved to death-refused to eat soya substitute meat." "That's a shame." 
Sign in Huddle: "Wanted-two UCLA tickets. Will trade ten rolls of toilet paper." 
I 
~ 
4 
• 
1 
Opinion 1 • 
4
Due Process at ND ? • 
patrick 1Jibbs 
"Peoples and governments never have learned anything from history 
' . . ... or acted on pnnctp1es deduced/rom tt. George Hegel Last November a student in Dillon Hall was "busted" by Fr. Burtchaell, who entered his room with a pass key after seeing him on the stairway with a girl. He was convicted on the basis of Fr. Burtchaell's search and what the student told Dean Macheca in what he thought was a counselling session. Apparently no Miranda-type warnings were ever given. The punishment was later declared to be inoperative by the judicial board apparently after the judicial code was interpreted to them by Dean Macheca. The student was suspended for this semester. One is tempted to launch into a tirade against Fr. Burt­chaell and the administration. But more can be gained by a review of the recent history of judicial process at Notre Dame. What follows is drawn from residence at Notre Dame for the past five years . The year of 1968-9 was a transition period. SBP J. Richard Rossi brought the concept of student power to ND. The promising result was the establishment of the SLC. A sign of the times: daily sign-in by students was ended. Discipline was still important. Vaciline, a magazine on pornography. was seized by Fr. Edmund Joyce, Executive Vice-President, in direct violation of the student manual. It was eventually released to professors "for classroom use." 1969-70 saw the institution of parietal hours, which students at first tried to enforce. A new judicial code was introduced. This code, principally authored by Professor Leslie Foschio of the Law School, was criticized by Fr. Burtchaell as "too technical". It was rejected by the Board of Trustees, which eventually accepted a second code from the SLC after amending it. This was also the year of the "15 Minute Rule." At a protest of on-campus recruiting by Dow Chemical Co. and the CIA those who were blocking a doorway were given 15 minutes to cease and desist. In a few minutes Arthur Pears was collecting ID's from everyone in sight including the SBVP and campus media people. Five students were suspended and five expelled. 1970-71 was notable for Fr. Burtchaell's rise to prominence. He invoked the "imminent danger clause" to suspend several students arrested by police for drug sales. Most of the criminal charges were dismissed eventually. The "imminent danger clause" had been written to protect students from physical violence. Finally, SBP David Krashna challenged the Administration to bust him for a parietals violation-they declined. In the 1971-72 school year the administration announced its right to enter any student room to discipline him. Room 
contracts wt>re also drawn up with the student required to ~ waive certain rights versus the University. The students appeared to be too busy having beer parties in their halls to 
t 
care about such things. But an administration attempt to restrict parietal hours was beaten down. •
~ 
The 1972-73 school year was another transition period. The beer parties continued. A foreign student in Lewis Hall was 
1
forced to withdraw from the University or face possible revocation of her visa. She was caught "cohabiting" with a • man. The undergraduate student's manual standards of •
4
conduct were applied to her, but since she was a graduate student she had no right to a hearing before the judicial • board. Subsequently a "temporary" disciplinary code for •jgraduate studens was promulgated by Vice President for Advanced Studies Robert Gordon. The Graduate Student Union's contributions to a new code were ignored and the "temporary" code became permanent. Undergraduate students were required to waive more rights in their new room contracts. 
In the present year the beer parties have been curtailed. Several students in Sorin Hall, who did not catch on to the change were "busted'' for a party they held. The punish­ment, a ban from athletic events, was not as remarkable as the reported waiver of appeal coerced from them by the dean of students. 
Drug busts have come to Notre Dame this year. The crack­down on dealers raises several questions: Were search warrants m · ~ Will the State of Indiana prosecute these felonies or is the University going to shield their students from prosecution (and the resulting bad publicity) by ex­pelling them? What will happen in an election year when the prosecutor wants some good publicity? 
The most recent Dillon Hall affair brings us to the ultimate question: Is there due process at Notre Dame? Due process has been defined by the U.S. Supreme Court as "protection of the individual against arbitrary action." The procedures in the Dillon Hall case resemble the inquisitorial system of Europe more than the adversary system of Anglo-Anlerican law. Our system is so structured because of a distrust _of the concentration of power in government. The above history shows that the judicial system at Notre Dame does not have meaningful protections of individual rights. An individual's integrity is secondary to the Administatrion's drive for moral discipline. I• 
But as the Hegel quotation above indicates this entire 
~ 
discussion is academic as the students do not care enough to 
I
learn about their rights and do something to protect them. The administration will ignore the issue just as they ignored 
•I
the implications of the Lewis Hall Mfair. Silence is the last refuge of the arrogant and as we have seen the Notre Dame ~ Administration has shown an arrogance of power towards individual rights which rivals any in Wahsington. 
Friday, January 18, 1974
the observer
10 
The Notre Dame & Western 

by Rick Scharf 
Warnings that an energy crisis was iminent have filled the air for many months. 
"There is a worldwide shortage of crude oil," claimed many oil company television and newspaper felt chills from these war­nings untion recently. In late October the Arabs terminated oil exports to countries ND&W No. 5332 is a 400 that supported Israel in the recent Middle East war. Since the United States is an ally horsepower Dual Diesel of Israel America's oil supply dropped off sharply, an the energy crisis quickly 
buiIt by the Porter

became a reality. To head off the crisis the President 
Manufacturing Co. capable
suggested lower speed limits for cars, lower 
thermostat settings for homes, and the t·eturn to-burning coal for powerplants. of pulling 17 loaded cars. Many schools and industries will have to slow down. even shut down as the crisis becomes more serious in the months ahead. 
Notre Dame, however will not find itself without heat as fuel oil grows more scarce, and the use of more coal becomes 
depend on the Michigan Central RR tonecessary ,Thanks to a part of the Univer­shuffle the cars and keep the power plantsity that few people even know exists-the supplied with coal.
Notre Dame and Western Railroad. 
The first equipment to bear the name of the ND&W was a locomotive crane bought in supplying coal 1946. A hopper car was purchased by the University in 1948, and with this addition The ND&W a small private line that is delays in receiving coal were no longer a owned by the University of Notre Dame. critical problem. The line once again ex­_The railroad's main function is to supply panded in 1950 with thie purchase of a 65 tne University's power plant with the coal ton diesel. ND&W No. 5332 is a 400 hor­it needs to generate electncal power tor sepower dual diesel built by the Porter 
Notre Dame·. Manufacturing Co. capable of pulling 17 commented Robert Cahill, Business Manger The decline in the popularity of the 
'Currently the power plant burns ap­loaded cars. Since 1950 three sidings have of Athletics, "and the football specials football specials began in the mid 1950's. proximately 75 per cent coal and 25 per cent been added to facilitate the movement of would bring the alumnae and subway­Passenger trains were no longer the fuel, but the shortage of fuel oil will most cars as they are unloaded at the coal dock. alumnae to see the games." easiest or the most enjoyable means of likely increase the use of coal. "We may In addition to the line's main function of The football special was the best means of transportation. An 18 car Army special, have to burn more coal in the months moving coal, it also handles many of Notre traveling to a game in the '30's and '40's. "A carrying the Army football team and 
ahead," stated Br. Borromeo Malley, Dame's other necessities. 'Anything that holiday spirit existed on board those cadets, was the last special train on the 
director of the ND&W, "but we will be able does not come to campus by truck arrives trains " recalls J .M. Gilmore, Assistant ND&W tracks. With the completion of the to handle the increase without a loss of by rail, which includes such things as paper, Gener~l Manager for Passenger Operations Indiana Toll Road the Notre Dame football power to the University." salt, lumber and building supplies. Most of for the Penn Central RR," and nearly specials were gone forever. 
Annually the line moves about 50,000 tons these items are stored in the Universituy's everyone traveled to the games by train." Although the idea of a university owning a of coal to supply the power plant boilers. warehouse located adjacent to the ND&W's most of the specials consisted of 14 or 15 1·ailroad may seem unique, many other self­
The coal arrives at the University via the track. cars, and carried 600 to 700 people. sufficient communities also own railroads Penn Central Rialroad, which is the main The trains started shortly after comparable to the ND&W. Purdue
:fi ' -. line that the ND&W ties into. Loaded in football specials Prohibition, and pre-game and p_ost-game Univeristy has a railroad which operates on 
' :~ 
I' 
hopper cars, the coal is brought down the parties were very common. Arthur Koch, a about the same trackage as Notre Dame's. 
•me-half mile of private track owned by Coal hoppers are shuffled around the passenger on board a late 1930's football St. Mary's College also owns facilities Notre Dame where it is emptied into coal tracks of the ND&W during the week, but for special, recalled that some fans celebrated capable of moving cars to and from their dock located just north of the power plannt. more than 25 years on Saturdays of home a little too much before the game, and were power plant. 
The coal is dumped from the hoppers into football games, the tracks would be cleared unable to get off the train when it arrived at Just as the ND&W has served Notre Dame 
the cock at the rate of 100 tons per hour. for the arrival of the Notre DAme football Notref Dame. for many years so has the crew that "We empty 700 to 800cars of coal in the dock specials. One of the most prestigious footballs operates the line. Br. Borromeo has per year," Br. Borromeo explained, "The From 1935 to 1962 passenger trains trains that traveled to the big games at directed Notre Dame's railroad since 1936. coal then goes from the coal dock to the steamed to South Bend bringing fans to see Notre Dame each year was the "Power The railroad's engineer, John Gooley, has 
boilers one boiler burning as much as 250 the Fighting Irish play football. Many of House Special.". This train was charter by worked on the line for 27 years, NS Chris tons per day." these football specials would park on the John Gould , a Notre Dame graduate from Chrisovergis, Gooley's assistant, has served tracks of the ND&W. 'Usually four trains the class of 1922. Leaving from Chicago, 
on the ND&W since 1965. Sometimes delays set in and the shipments would park on our tracks," informed Br. there was always a long waiting list for The future of the Notre Dame and of coal arrive at the University behind Borromeo, "and as many as five trains people wishing to ride on the "Power House Western Railroad contains no large plans schedule. When this occurs the ND&W could be accomodated on the three sidings Special." Trains also left the campus for expansion. In the years to con'le the 
must bring the coal froim the storage pile addition of a few more switches to facilitate
by the Holy Cross Junior College." traveling to some away football games. A located north of Moreau Seminary. The coal The trains, departing from cities all over football special would usually take Notre the movement of cars is projected. For the is loaded into the line's one hopper car by the Midwest, were usually chartered by Dame fans to see games at Michigan State present the line has the vital task of con­
means of a locomotive crane, and sent from alumnae clubs in various cities, but the and Purdue. "The football team always tinuing to supply coal to the Notre Dame the storage pile to the coal dock. This trains were open to anyone who wanted to went to away games by train," according to power plant. While many schools and in­
process requires more work for the come to Notre Dame. "There was time Edward Krause, Director of Athletics, "the dustries feel the effects of the energy crisis, railroad's crew, but it is necessary in order before Pro-football became so popular that team did not start flying to games until !her ND&W will help the University of Notre to keep the power plant supplied with coal. Notre Dame was everybody's team," 1946." Dame through the cold winter days ahead. 
a long history 
While the Notre Dame and Western Railroad plays a vital role in helping the University operate in the 1970's, it is by no means a new edition to Notre Dame The ND&W's tracks, which originally criss­crossed the north end of campus, were laid in 1902 by the Michigan Central RR. The Michigan Central, owners of the tracks tha cross the St. Mary's campus, later _became a part othe New York Central system, which today is the Penn Central RR. 
The railroad's engineer,
The original tracks on campus ran into the old power plant which was located behind St. Edward's Hall. There the coal was 
John Gooley, has worked
emptied from the coal cars and into the boilers by hand. Just north of the old plant, where the Infirmary stands today, once 
on the line for 27 years.stood a warehouse and a passenger station. The passenger depot was intended for students traveling to and from campus for vacations. Other early campus sites which the tracks served were the icehouse and the stockyard for the cattle raised on the old Notre Dame farm 
In 1931 the power plant was moved to its present location, and a great deal of the old track was removed As Notre Dame's need for more electrical power grew, it became necessary to acquire equipment to operate on the University's tracks, rather than 


Friday, January 18, 1974 the observer 1 1 
Letters Ta A Lanely Gad 
eleanor the great 

Of all the women living in Dorothy Day's Catholic Worker House on the Bowery this Christmas, Eleanor alone had the sensuous idiom of the real great bawdy talkers, like the Wife of Bath or Juliet's nurse. In her bigness, she was a comic figure with her huge breasts and buttocks wrapped in an overcoat; yet she moved with the dignity of an ocean liner putting out to sea. She always wore a scarf draped over her head and held in place by a knitted cap; the effect was like that of the head dress of a pre-Vatican II nun. Eleanor did not talk like a nun, though in the rich resonance and throatiness of her voice, she could have commanded the attention of convents as the acting Reverend Mother. With its lines of mischief and meannesss, mirth and suf­fering, her handsome face was simply wonderful. 
eleanor's book 
The first day I met Eleanor, she was wearing a Halloween mask shoved back on her head. I wanted to ask her why, but she was muttering imprecations and curses, seemingly against the grayness of the winter afternoon in the shabby settlement house on East First Street. Finally I said: "What's the matter?" 
She glared at me with the an­
noyance we all reserve for 
eavesdropping strangers. 
"I'm writing a book," she said. 
"Oh," I replied. 
"Do you know what I am calling 
that book?" she said. 
"What?" I said. 
"I'm calling it Shit, " she said, 
"because shit is what it's all 
about." 
The sting of her metaphysical l'Phuke did not escape me. and I decided to let an air of coolness develop between us. I said no more to her, but merely watched from 
the corner of my eye. 
Ticket Prices: 
Tickets on sale: 
Suddenly she said to a little mouse-like man who was sitting quietly by himself in the corner: "Mister, you keep your hands to yourself." 
"I didn't do nothing," he said. "You just keep your god-damned hands off me," she said. "But I didn't do nothing," he said. "You just watch who you're pawing," she said. 
"For Christ's sake," he screamed, "I never even touched you." 
By this time, Eleanor was in full flight of escape to the bathroom, where, presumably, her virture could be preserved intact against hands of the flippants. From the redness of her face, it was obvious to all of us that she was in no Maria-Goretti-like mood as far as extending her forgiveness to her attacker, real or imagined. 
Mter a great number of minutes, 
Eleanor emerged from the bathroom. On the front of her coat was pinned the cloth scapulars symbolizing a consecration to the Virgin of Mount Carmel. 
A woman said: "Eleanor, why are you wearing that mask on your head?" 
"Because," Eleanor said, "sometimes I put it on, and it makes me laugh. Otherwise, when I look in the mirror, I have to cry." 
cheese cake 
That is how I met Eleanor the Great, the woman who, of all the people at the Catholic Worker, touched my feelings the most. With a quick turn of the phrase, she could make me laugh like a fool; unfortunately, I can't remember any of her cleverness. I can only remember the tender G.Joments like the day she told me of, when she had gone into a restaurant and ordered cheese cake and coffee; then found she didn't have enough money to pay 

Bleachers ___ •______ $3.50 
NOTRE DAME, A. C. C. Mon. · Sat. 9 to 5 Lower Arena •_____ •• $4.50 
Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall 
Main Fllor ••• ___ •__ •$5.50 
SL Joseph Bank -and branches Loge ••••••.••••••• $5.50 
first Bank -Main office only Platform _..•••..•.•$5.50 
Elkhart Truth 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. J. Geils Band. Send to J. Geils Band Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 
r•v•rend rabert ,.riffin 
for her little treat. She cursed the waiter, and he cursed her. I am not sure which Eleanor enjoyed more, the cheese cake or the cursing. But who am I that I should feel like weeping at the simple pleasures of the poor? 
believing in nothing 
You are probably beginning to think of Eleanor as a crazy old broad whom a priest happened to meet in a New York mission. But Eleanor was not crazy. The truth is that she was angry, because anger is what you feel when you're helpless, and there are no choices left for you, and there is nothing for you to believe in. ("I don't believe in nothing but death," Eleanor said.") If Eleanor quarreled with people, it was because she didn't know how to say that she loved them. 
first piper 
On one of my last evenings at the Worker, a group of us derelicts were gathered around a kitchen table where a boy sat, playing his guitar and singing. Except for the fact that we were Bowery people, shabby and gray with age, the mood of the group was light hearted, and the songs were the same as they might have been among any group of collegains celebrating a Saturday night at Notre Dame. 
In the midst of merriment, someone nudged me to turn around. There, keeping time to the 
music on a plastic yellow flute, was Eleanor, playing her heart out like the first piper at the Philharmonic. It was an extraordinary sight to see: this old lady, with all her weight buttoned into a black overcoat, wimpled and coifed by her cap and scarf, with foot tap­ning and hf>r face as serious as the last judgement, piping minstrelsy to the _night. One knew ti]enthat in private moments, maybe while locked with anger in the bathroom, Eleanor had her own secret love, and the beloved's name was music. 
the yellow flute 
At odd moments, I suspect, when she was alone in a crowded park or resting in some doorway, that yellow flute would come out its hiding place in the great coat, and Eleanor would make sounds like a bird whose wings have beaten too long against an empty sky. 
secret pipes 
I don't know if all those other people at the Catholic Worker had a secret pipe to play, I don't know if they were private practioners of music. But I know that for Eleanor, even on days when there is no money for cheese cake, even at times when there are no masks to hide behind, there are melodies that can heal the anger, there is music to calm the rage. 
At least, I hope that it is so. Benedicamus Domino. 

WELCOME BACK FIGHTING IRISH NATIONAL CHAMPIONS 
FIGHTtNG IRISH BOURBON--$5.70 fifth 
GO IRISH--RUIN THE BRIUNS 
EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200 yds. on left 10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORDER KEGS 


\ 


--------~--------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------~ 
the observer Friday, January 18, 1974
12 
brain salad surgery: a piece of the action 


joseph abell 
,11111111 iII II I11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 three musicians shine, and the Third Im­Chance," can only be a waste of time to pression of the piece is the brightest part of listen to. that shine, Emerson especially dominates The other pieces aren't half bad. with a lighter and more frenetic sounding "Jerusalem" is a fairly haunting rendition
Brain Salad Surgery 
moog and organ than before. of an old English hymn, enhanced by Lake's
Emerson, Lake & Palmer 
Unfortunately, the rest of the album vocals, which always seem to sound like
Manticore MC 66669 
defeats any claim of near-perfection. Two he's got a touch of echo chamber going. The
$5.98 
lemons especially distract the listener, a last one, "Toccata" is a complex little distraction that becomes more annoying piece that brings out the violence in both when he realizes had had to plow through Emerson's keyboards and the original piece lllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiJIH; IIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII! IIIII them to get to the first part of "Karn Evil by Alberto Ginastera. Palmer's intricate To get to the heart of the matter, "Karn 9". percussion arrangements come as a bit of a Evil 9" is what Brain Salad Surgery is all "Still ...You Turn Me On" is Lake's by-now surprise, however, with the subsequent hope about. A masterful performance of the best familiar attempt to turn semi-soloist. He he'll be given more chances to shine like material EL&P has done so far, "Karn Evil managed pretty well before, with "Lucky this. Ginastera himself approved heartily. 9" is superb on both lyrical and musical Man" and others, but here he bombs out, Brain Salad Surgery has confirmed EL&P levels. Lyrically, it satirizes man's current mostly with lyrics that sound as if he made as one of those rare groups that can do the 
Rock music is definitely moving towards state of absurdity with tongue in exactly the them up as he went along. "Benny the same type of material and yet progress a more complex mode with groups like right cheek. "Welcome back my friend~ to Bouncer" is another familiar part of EL&P from album to album. Let's hope they can Jethro Tull, Yes, and to some extent, the the show that never ends," Lake screams albums: the nonsensical, "fun" song. It keep it up, and maybe even trim away some Who. Emerson, Lake and Palmer fit into out, telling just about the best attitude to may be fun to do, but like "Give Peace a of the fat next time. this group somewhere and with their latest take towards the circuit of modern living. album. make a decisive bid for a piece of And later, when he battles verbally with a the coming thing. computer, the lines "I let you live (the 
But EL&P's approach is a bit different computer)", "But I gave you life (Lake)" from the others. Unlike Tull's madrigal­"What else could you do?" sums it up all type rock with a touch of jazz in Passion very nicely.Musically, the group plays with 
song for iuli: 
Play, Yes' more downbeat, orchestrated anexcitement that is rarely maintained as "aurora" sound in Tales from Topographic well as they do. Encompassing all kinds of Oceans, and the Who's more thoughtful musical themes and forms, including mixed bag of Quadraphonic, EL&P instead classical, rock, jazz, rock and roll and even goes for the high energy, pull-out-the-stops, calypso, the continually building tension 
iesse's finest 
to-hell-with-eardrums sound. And best of and fervor are a perfect backdrop for the all, they succeed like never before. theme 
of absurdity. Needless to all 
llllllllllllllllllllllllll•nllftiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUII 
pat small 
After a year-long, perhaps too long ab­I got hundred-foot pine trees sence from the rock scene, Jesse Colin That just love to dance in the wind 
Song For Juli Young has returned with an album of great And a yard full of bush's that turn into pies Jesse Colin Young musical accomplishment and diversity in July 
Warner Bros. BS 2734 entitled Song for Juli. The former Between bluejays and hoot owls I got $5.98 Youngblood has employed a horn section to twenty-four hour singin' sky implement his already solid good-time sound and has succeeded in producting one of the finer albums of 1973. 
The album is brimming with references to The combination of the imaginative lyrics, ;:>ast themes as expressed in the titles and skillful arrangement and instrumentation, lyrics of his new songs. For example, the and powerful vocal makes this my favorite 
llltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIll1111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Youngbloods released an album a few cut. / years ago entitled High On A Ridgetop and The last cut, "When The Evenin' Comes," 
there is a corresponding one on this album chronologically ends side one (in reference to entitled "Ridgetop." The opening cut "Mornin' Sun"). It combines peaceful "Morning Sun," coincides with perhaps his country harmonica and guitar with a 
finest previous musical achievement homesick but hopfullyric. It is the only cut "Sunlight." The final cut, "Country without a horn or woodwind section.
ND research teams 
Home," again reverts to "a house high on a Side 2 is distinguished by the diversity of ridgetop." However, the musical content of of musical style within the framework of a 
this album differs somewhat from any of his couple of the songs as well as the difference previous works as he plays all kinds of between each song itself. Jesse and the goup music ranging from blues to jazz to ragtime prove their power as a band by their
delve into energy 
to folk, although much of his original style is amazing display of versatility. 
preserved. The first cut, "Miss Hesitation," is a song Side I stands out with its pretty songs, for all the seasons of your musical mind. I expertise musicianship, and its overall easy begins as a rambling, countryish tune 
by Jane Thornton threatens the very basis of in­feel which is typical of any Jesse Young which decelerates to % time into a mellow Staff Reporter dustry. production. "Morning Sun" is one of the jazz piece featuring floating sax. The whole more Youngblood-sounding songs with its process repeats itself until the second jazz
Researchers and Com-chord-style lead guitar and the rural blues portion slips into pure Dixieland ragtime,
What's Notre Dame doing about monwealth Edison Company's via a slide trombone and featuring
harmonica of "Earthquake" Anderson. 
the energy crisis? Plenty. Chicago executives assisting with The only diappointing note is the double predominant clarinet! and half-spoken, half Research teams headed by the investigation have agreed to tracking of Jesse's voice which produces a sung vocal. The ragtime is actually the 
hollow, echo-like sound. His vocals are best traditional "Hesitation Blues" with morePhilosophy Professor Kenneth M. the study of heat disposal problem when left raw and untouched as exhibited on rag and less blues. 
Aerospace while still debating the other two
Sayre and and some of the Youngbloods' albums, notably "T-Bone Shuffle," the second cut, is an 
Mechanical Associate Professor mentioned. Ride the Wind. Although this echo urban bluesy tune, replete with sleezy scat
Neil H. Schilmoeller may be in­A brief explanation of the technique can be useful on songs such as piano, hot harmonica, singing, and 
"Darkness, Darkness" (to provide an eerie short horn bursts. The combination of thesevestigating decisions made by the problems is as follows. First, each sound) or on this album's "RidgetJ>p," it musical entities sounds quite similar to Paullower Lake Michigan area's power power plant faces increasing 
leaves "Morning Sun," an otherwise Butterfield's band when Butter was into the industry concerning power power production demands by the pleasant tune, a bit empty. big band blues a few years ago. production, fuel types and heat community. The company's The prettiest song on the album is the title The most unique song on the album is tune, "Song For Juli." It opens with a "Lafayette Waltz-Jambalaya D <On the
disposal. decision to meet or to moderate the 
simple acoustic guitar-picked melody that Bayou)." It unites the waltz tempo andThe Research Applied to demand will be studied. 
gradually builds into an up-tempo, semi­lyrics and francais of the former and the National Needs Division of the Secondly, each power plant structured jam consisting of 1·hythm. The rocking rendition of the old Hank Williams' National Science Foundation boiler runs on nuclear or fossil fuel song eventually changes tempo, comes to a tune, which features a roaring sax section. granted $149,000 for the three year and here examiners will determine halt, and returns to the original guitar Jesse's pronunciation of the French 
pattern, accompnied by the voices of Jesse language is humorously atrocious in unisonresearch project started last June how the respective fuel types were 
and his wife Suzi. The vocals are soft and with the phrasing of his Californian drawl. 
1. chosen. 
simple and reminiscent of Paul and Linda "Country Home" concludes the album, 
What's behind the probe? The Finally, every power plant McCartney's better duets. Aside f~·om the again in reference to his beloved ridgetop. researchers claim that weighing discharges heat into some lake, trite lyric, "flowers in her hair," "flowers Although not lyrically brilliant, the song everywhere," the song is a success. graphically contrasts the loneliness of the
long term effects of industry river or cooling tower. The team 
"Ridgetop," a song about Jesse's pic­street life with the. happiness of his rural against short term benefits and will study the decision of how to turesque home, contains an apparent jazz abode. 
arriving at a point where all values dissipate this thermal pollution to warm-up which breaks into a neat blues The quality of this album can be ap­involved are recognized may be the environment. shuffle spiced intermittently with preciated in two ways. As a collection of saxaphone licks. Jesse's echo vocal suc­eight individual songs, each stands on it own
one of the most critical problems of Schilmoeller said he will be 
ceeds in this instance because it gues the merit, which, for the most part, is quite 
the 20th century. careful watching energy crisis impression of his voice reverberating down good. Viewing the album as a concept of 
For example, massive in­decison making since "corporate from the ridgetop. His lyrical imagery is at interrelated themes and varying musical distrialization may create a short executives can make short range its peak in this song: styles, it is rather brilliant. It seems ap­parent that Jesse and his band will have a
term economic boom, but 
(continued on page 14) Now my taxes are high hard time following up this work of art.
resulting power exhaustion But I don't believe it's a sin 


-
' ' 
·--~ --.----"' .._...,. ­
Indianapolis Symphony to appear at St. Mary's 
The Indianapolis Symphony and orchestra in Columbus (Ohio), universities --Pacific University,
Orchestra, under the direction of New Orleans, and Buffalo before Indiana Central College, Anerson
Dr. Izler Solomon, will appear in an appearance as guest conductor <Indiana) College, Franklin <In­concert Sunday, January 20, at 
of the Indianapolis Symphony diana) College, Butler University3:00p.m. in St. Mary's O'Laughlin resulted in his present ap­and Indiana University. PopularAuditorium,. Tickets for the pointment. 
as a guest conductor, Dr. Solomonper'ormance are $1.75 for adults, Solomon is the recipient of has appeared in Canada, Mexico,$1.00 for students, and are 
numerous awards, including the Israel, and Germany, as well asavailable from the office of National Music Council's Award of with most of the major Ainerican
programming at Saint Mary's. 
Honor, an award from the National orchestras.
Founded by Ferdinand Schaefer Association of American Con­The January 20 concert at Saint
during the summer of 1930, the ductors and Composers, and the Mary's is one of more than 150Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra 
Alice M. Ditson Award "for played each year by the orchestra, is comprised of 80 professional distinguished services to and is presented in cooperationmusicaians ranging in age from 20 American music." 
with the National Endowment for to 70. Dr. Solomon has been music He has also received honorary the Arts and the Indiana Artsdirector and conductor of the or­doctorates from six colleges and Commission.
chestra since 1956. Under his 
guidance, Indianapolis has 
achieved a leading position among 
NICE programs include
the major symphony orchestra of the nation.. American-born and trained, Dr. Solomon began his musical career 
academic credit bank,
as a concert violinist. He won the national Young Artists' Contest in 1931, and accepted the position of concertmaster of the newly­
SMC library exchange
formed Lansing Symphony Or­The Northern Indiana Con­academic credit bank will nor­chestra shortly thereafter. When sortium for Education announced mally apply to the regularthe conductor was forced to resign today two new programs affecting academic year only (excludingdue to ill health, Solomon all five member institutions, in­special winter sessions, in­assumed theresponsibilities fo full cluding St. Mary's. These tersession, and summer sessions).
leadership, thus beginning his new programs include an Faculty loans to balance the credit career as a conductor. He was to academic credit bank and a bank may occur during allhead the Illinois Symphony, the library exchange. sessions, however.
Somen's Symphony of Chicago, 
The academic credit bank has Library facilities; of the five been conceived to permit students institutions are open to all students Art exhibition from any NICE institution to and faculty of the five par­enroll, on a space-available basis, ticipating schools, without cost to in courses offered at another NICE the borrower of his-her institution. 
of Vogl works 
institution at no additional cost to The five librarians of these schools either student or institution. have met and totally support theAn exhibition of more than 60 Further, the academic credit bank library exchange program, andworks of art completed by Don makes provision for the loan or have expressed full cooperation inVogl, art professor at Notre exchange of faculty-of a part-time sharing lists of 1periodicals ,Dame, will open Sunday, January basis among the consortium in­reference works, and special20, in the O'Shaughnessy Hall Art stitutions at noadditionalcost to the collections of each library with all Gallery. A reception for the artist institutions. or students. the member institutions. Further,fmm 2 to 4:30 p.m. is open to the Students must be enrolled in 12 the five libraries have mutuallypublic. 
credit hours at their home in­agreed to the development of areas stitution. before they are eligible of specialization to specificIncluded in the one-man show to enroll in another institution. libraries who will develop thesewill be recent oils, acrylics, water .Finances are all to be handled at collections and make themcolors, lithographs, woodcuts and the home institution. Each in­available to students and facultysilkscreens. Vogl's subject matter stitution will pay its own faculty, members of all the members in­ranges from fanciful renderings of and the students will register and stitutions.
nature, to spontaneous sketches of pay their regular tuition at the Those present for the an­classroom drawing sessions, to home institution. nouncement included Dr. Edwardintimate portraits of children. 
The registrars of the five NICE L. Henry, president., Saint Mary's 
The artist explores visual forms members will work out the College; Dr. Ray Panna becker, through a variety of techniques. A methodology of enrollment, credit, president, Bethel College; Brother large number of works are done in recording, and grade re~rting, John Driscoll, CSC, president, water color while spray paint is subject to the approval of the chief Holy Cross Junior College; Dr. used in others to add new academic officers. Lester Wolfson, chancellor Indian dimensions to the process of The academic credit banks is to Universityat South Bend; and Mr. lithography. Woodcuts are be effective for the spring and fall Richard Wysong, dean, IVY 'J:ech. 
produced through jugsaw puzzle­of the 1974 terms, and will be In addition, meinbers of the shaped forms. evaluated during the operation by steering committee, representing the participating institutions and 
the five member institutions, at­
Vogl's exhibitions in other 
the consortium. At this time, the tended the special meeting. 
galleries have been acclaimed for 
their light-hearted and lyrical mood, a feeling of early spring. Critics say the collection takes on an overall feeling of fresh crispness and renewed vitality, a dramatic contrast to the bleakness of win­ter's heavy snows and chilling airs. 

plann in~ a "<'fkl in~·? rail IlK• 234·5822 
We'll be open immediately
\\todd in~ Photo~mpln 
234-5822 MICHAEL LONER 
following the UCLA game.
~~~ 
Friday, January 18, 1974 the observer 1 3 
~~~~~~~------~~----------~ 
ACADEMIC COMMISSION PRESENTS 
The Life & Times of Judge Roy Bean 
with PAUL NEWMAN 
0
Washington Hall 5 1° 
7:30pm 1O:OOpm TONIGHT 
Give UCLA the I 
IRISH 
Irish Flags 
4" X 6" 
59¢ 

1i~~~~.-....m ......IIIII.IJJ'IS. 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery 
L0f400N PAAI$ ANTWfqp AOrT£A0AU SYDNEY MELBOURNE TQRQP\ITQ UONTF~EAL 
VANCOUVER NE~YQAIC. BOSTON MIAMI PlolltiOHPI-IIA CHICAGO OEH~()IT PITTSBURGH 
HOUSTON DALLAS PHOENtX SAN FRANCISCO SEATTLE LOS ANGElES 

"A Long-Expected Party" 
Tolkie 1 Costume Ball 
THURS. JAY, JAN 31, 9-12 La Fortune Ballroom 
singles $2.00 couples $3.75 
...tickets on sale 
MON, TUES, WE 
in the dining halls 
"Anyway, I mean to en;oy myself on Thursday" Bilbo Ba ins, . 49 
\ 



14 the observer Friday, January 18, 1974 
, ' 
Start your v.eekend at ... 
Navy denies allegations 
Bulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper
• 
across from Grace Tower)
of nuclear sub m1scues 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The Navy Wednesday denied charges that mistaken emer­gency signals from Polaris submarines nearly set off nuclear war twice in 1971. 
The Navy said the mistaken 
To fund energy research 
(continued from page 12) 
decisions detrimental to long range interests of the human species" in a panic situation such as the energy crisis. 
Although the specific problems remain undetermined, Sayre and Schilmoeller have stipulated ob­jectives and a work plan. 
The professors, aiming first to analyze conflicts between economic, ecological and ethical values applied in power industry decisions, will develop normative ~uidelines designed to alleviate or resolve these tensions and finally investigate with the companies involved means of assimilating the guidelines into the decision process. 
Work will be carried out by two groups in three one-year stages. Schilmoeller heads the Cor­porate decision section currently ~ including Assistant Economics 
) 
Professor Kenneth Jameson and
f 
Biology Professor Robert P.
t 
Mcintosh, editor of the American
:l 
s Midland Naturalist. Sayre directs the Value Theories section 
!i 
\1 presently consisting of Assistant Philosophy Professor Kenneth E. Goodpaster and Associate 
Philosophy Professor Vaughn R. McKim.
'· ~ 
Presently in the first or descriptive stage, the corporate ' decisions section is finalizing the
) 
specific problem areas and
\ 
gathering information. In­
-.,._.
'1 formation is collected by in­terviewing company employees, evaluating types of decision makers ~y standardized tests and­
.l reviewing published articles and legal documents. 
: f 
.i. The second year, normative stage, conducted by the research 
l' ' ' 
~­
) 
> 
~ 

PIZZA * FINE ITALIAN FOOD * LIQUOR your host FRANK' ANASTASIO AND***********************•UPSTAIRS IN THE ATTIC: JOHN BOCHMAN & BOB EVANS Good prices for pitchers and drinks 
Call 234-3258 for deliveries 219 N. Mich. Ave., Downtown S. B. 

signals did indicate the subma­t·ines had sunk, but not by enemy action. 
The charges were levelled Tuesday by Rep. Les Aspin, D­Wis., a frequent Pentagon critic, and were based on a defense contractor's affidavit 
teams, will systematize what economic, ecological and ehtical values are applied in the decision process. Given some of the in­creasingly undesireable side ef­fects such as foul air, thermal pollution and nuclear wastes, they will examine what values ought to be applied in these decision 
processes. 
Lastly, both researchers and companies will attempt to develop means of practically applying the theories. 
Questions raised during the probe include "What ends will or should new techniqus serve?; What values should guide society's adjustments?; and What is a good man, what is a good life for man, and what is a good community?" 
The researchers' NSF proposal states that lack of perspectives, not greed, promotes decisions which are not in the best long range interest of our society. The document maintains that a power company executive may be as concerned as anyone else that our environment remain viable. Furthermore, he is aware that his company's economic activities affect the environment, but is often unable to assess these effects and thus takes comfort in feeling that these effects are negligible. Shilmoeller and Sayre aim to "help them learn to take these en­vironmental and social factors into systematic account." 
Sayre claims that "in the long 
run, by non-political means, we 
may be able to enter directly into 
the decision-making process in a way that's beneficial to industry and society" especially during this energy crisis. 
the incidents occurred. 
Aspin had said emergency signal buoys launched them­selves to the surface from Polaris subs due to mechanical malfunction, and sent messages the subs had been sunk by enemy action. 
He said the signals set off "massive military alerts" until the mistake was discovered, and the Navy then covered up the incidents to protect the contractor that built the buoys, Collins Radio Co. 'of Dallas. 
But the Navy said in a statement that while the two buoys were indeed launched by mistake, "the message relea­sed ... was that the submarine in question had sunk. No enemy action was indicated." 
In addition, the statement said, the subs themselves were able to notify the Navy quickly that the signals were a mistake, and as a result no search and rescue operations were mounted. 
"No massive alert transpired because timely notification by the affected ships precluded such action," the statement said. "The launch of the two buoys did not endanger the lives or safety of the sub­marines." 
The Navy also said the buoys continue in use aboard the subs and the problem has not recurred. 
NY schools closed 
(continued from page 7) 
ternational Union Of operating Engineers Local 94. 
While negotiations continued on wages, working conditions, fringe benefits and equal pay for women, no progress was reported. 
A board of 'Education 
spokesman stressed that the 
teachers must report to their 
schools. 
INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL 
Sponsored by the College of Arts and letters in cooperation with the Department of Modern and Classical languages. 
January 21 January 28 February 4 February 25 
March 4 
March 25 
April 
April 29 
ALL SHOWINGS: 
Admission: FREE 
!.....•Of' 
•···..: 
. 
.
. 
.-­
Friday 5:00 p.m. 
Cinema~ 
presents 
'Spider's Stratagem' 
DirE>cted by Bernardo Bt>rtolucci 
"Bertolucci's best movie." 
-Jay Cocks, Time Magazine 
SATURDAY a SUNDAY a a 1Dpm·ENG. AUD. ADMISSION -•1.00
*--*PATADNB FREE • 
~CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION 
Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme ( French--1958--La Comedie Franciase) 
The Triumph of the Will ( German--1936--Riefenstahl) 
The Good Soldier Schweik ( Czech--1957--Stekly) 
Ia Strada ( ltalian--1954--Fellini) 
Nazarine ( Spanish--1958--Bunuel) 
Ballad of a Soldier { Russian--1960--Chukhrai) 
Smiles of a Summer Night ( Swedish--1955--Bergman) 
lkiru (Japanese--1952--Kurosawa) 
Time: 7:00pm and 9:30pm Place: Engineering Auditorium 
ARRIVE EARLY • A VOID STANDING 


No.1 
by John Fineran 
Contrary to belief, UCLA will not be the only number one team visiting Notre Dame this Weekend. 
John Macinnes' Michigan Tech Huskies will be in town for a two game set with the Irish icers, and despite the Huskies' current second place standing in the WCHA, they are rated number-one nationally in the latest hockey coaches' poll. 
Tech certainly deserve its 
standing and ranking The Huskies 
have an extremely potent offense 
(.123 goals scored) and a very 
stingy defense (63 goals allowed) 
in 20 games. These totals, m_ore 
than anything else, substantiate 
the Huskie record of 15-3-2 00-2-2­
in the WCHA>. 
"Michigan Tech is probably the 
best team in the WCHA," Notre Dame's coach Lefty Smith said. "We fear them more than any ·other team in the WCHA. Tech is quick and will present us with problems because of this speed and 
forechecking ability." 
Assistant coach Tim McNeill 
agreed with Smith. ''Tech forces a 
team to handle the puck in a 
hurry, and if you do something in a 
less than deliberate manner, you 
may do something with the puck 
you really don't want to do. A team 
must react quickly if it hopes to be 
successful against the Huskies." 
Wisconsin found that out in a 
hurry last weekend. Michigan 
Tech used its forechecking and 
speed well last week in coming 
away from the Badgers' home ice 
with 4-1 and 6-4 victories. 
And the Huskies should have 
extra-incentive for this weekend's 
encounters with the Irish, now 8-11­
1 because Notre Dame spoiled 
Tech's home WCHA opening 
series with an 8-4 and 2-2 tie. 
"I thought we outplayed Notre 
Dame for the most part in the 
series " Macinnes said. "Notre 
Dame' was a smarter hockey team 
and picked us apart. 
Tech's forchecking kept Notre 
Dame bottled up in its defensive 
zone most of both evenings, but the 
Huskies' backchecking broke 
down. While most of the respon­
sibility for this strong forechecking 
rests on centers Mike Zuke, Bob 
D'Alvise, Elie Vorlicek and John 
Jaschuk, the wings must do the 
backchecking. 
"Our forwards are forechecking 
extremely well," Macinnes said. 
"And their backchecking is better 
than average." 
Zuke, a 5-11 sophomore, w~s 
voted the outstanding freshman m 
ND grapplers home lor two 
by Rich Odioso 
Mike Fanning, who won 25 matches as a freshman heavyweight, returns to the mat after a two-year absence as ~e Irish wrestling team hosts a pa~r of highly-regarded opponents this weekend. Friday night at 7;30 p.m., DePauw comes to the Insh stronghold, and Marshall will meet Notre Dame before the UCLA game at 10:30 a.m. Sat':'rday morning. Both matches are I';I the Convo's Auxiliary GymnasiUm and admission is free. 
The Irish who completed the pre-break ~rt of the schedule with a 6-1 record, will have three new faces in the starting lineup. Fanning who just joined the team aft~r completion of the football schedule, will start at heavyweight as Al Rocek drops down to 190. Two freshmen have also earned starting slots. Dick Scheetz will start at 177 in place of the injured Chip Habig and Mike Haws, out of South Bend Riley, will go at 134. 
Tech seeks reven 
the league last season, and off his performance thus far this year, he has not proven otherwise. His 20 goals and 27 assists for 47 points is four more than junior D'Alvise (19 goals and 24 assists). Vorlicek and Jaschuk are more conscious, but are still dangerous in their own right, each having scored three times. 
Two left wingers, seniors Graham Wise and•Lorne Stamler, are third and fourth in scoring with 31 and 29 points. Stamler and Zuke team up with right wing Bill Steele (17 pts. > for the first line while Wise and D' Alvise have Scott Jessee on their right side. 
Captain Jim Nahrgang leads the Huskie defense. Nahrgang is an excellent offensive defenseman who also leads the Huskies in penalty minutes with 56. He is paired with junior Bob Lorimer. The second blueline tandem consists of rugged Bruce Abbey (6­1, 185 lbs.) and freshman Paul Jensen, one of two Minneapolis Jensens. The other, Steve, also a freshman, skates third line right wing and has scored 11 goals. The two are not related. 
Senior Rick Quance has seen most of the action this season in goal for the Huskies. He has posted the team's only shutout (a 7-0 whitewash of Michigan) and 
Interhall 
has a excellent 3.14 goals-against average in 14 games. His backup will be sophomore Bo Mihos, whc is replacing Jim Warden. Warden fractured a finger before last week's Wisconsin series. 
The Irish, despite their break­even semester break (4-4 overall; 2-2 in the WCHA>, still have an excellent chance to finish in the top four of the league. The Irish, 6-9-1 in the league for 13 points, are only four points out of second place. With a little luck these records could have been improved. 
Last weekend, the Irish did everything right except score. Several times Friday night, Notre Dame had a chance to ice their 5-4 third period lead with an insurance marker, but each time they were foiled. 
Still, Smith has not panicked. He will continue with converted defenseman Bill Nyrop (26 pts.) centering Ian Williams (23) and Eddie Bumbaccp (27). The second line of center Pat Conroy (23) between Larry Israelson (23) and leading scorer Ray De Lorenzi (13 goals and 19 assists) also remains intact. 
Senior Mike Tardani will likely center the third line because of an injury to freshman Brian Walsh. Clark Hamilton and Alex Pirus, two talented and physical fresh­men, will man the 5-8 center's 
wings. Pat Novitzki will se penalty-killing action. On defense, freshman Paul 
...... 
~ 
Tri-captain lan Williams and his Notre. D~me teamma~es will seek a two-game sweep against top-ranked M1ch1gan Tech th1s weekend. 

.... 

Friday, January 18, 1974
the observer
16 
Phelps'· cagers face crucial trial 
by Vic Dorr packed cour~room a~d a nation-"I'm thinki~g i~ terms of con-agamst N.C. State) have sidelined wrinkle or two they might employ, Sports Editor wide TV audience, Digger Phelps ference play, ' said Wooden. "I Walton, players like 6-9 freshman by they don't change. Why should will seek to uphold the precedent want him at full strength for Rich Washington and 7-1 they?" Ton1orrow afternoon, just a few set in 1971. He will seek to follow conference games. If we felt it sophomore Ralph Drollinger have 
But Phelps' Irish haven't 
moments after 12 o'clock, Notre an Irish victory 'over a top-ranked_ would have an adverse effect on enabled the UCLA machineto coast chan~ed an.ything, either. They'llDame basketball coach Digger football opponent with a decision our conference games is he plays alone without missing a beat. 
go with their same starting lineup Phelps will find himself in an over everyone's top-ranked this week, then we w?n't pl~y him. "We are starting to jell as a <Clay, Brokaw, Shumate, Dntley,
unfamiliar position. . basketball. opponent-those same But the doctor d~sn t feel It ~auld team," said Tommy Curtis, the No~ak), their same tempo, and 
Phelps, now in his third--and UCLA Brums. be harmful for him to play. Bruins' 5-11 floor leader. "We are 
thetr same stype of play. _ most successful--year as caretaker Digger's task--both as a Wooden, who has guided UCLA starting to jell and Ralph 
"In a comparison of talent," said of ND's cagers will rise from his basketball coach and as a to nine NCAA championships in the <Drollinger) is gaining confidence guard Gary Brokaw, "we can
designated place on the bench and precendent-conscious attorney--last ten years, would certainly in ';IS and i~ himself. With Bill out, match up to UCLA. We have to 
( ! turn to face the court. He will plead. wil be every bit as difficult as the prefer that his beg red-head see Keith (Wilkes) and I have to avoid the mental mistakes."
He may raise his arms in a gesture task confronted by coach Johnny action against the Irish. And so, assume the leadership to keep the 
-. Center John Shumate agreed,
.; of eloquent resignation. He may 
Dee three years ago. Maybe even for that matter, would the Irish. team together . 
but suggested that "We'll have to
express displeasure. He will grow more so. "It's always niqe to win," he play a super game, I mean a Super
excited as he senses an advantage, "I sincerely hope Walton is able finished, "especiaLy with Bill out." 
For the Bruins of coach John to play against us," said Phelps. 40 minutes. One good half won't doand will seek to improve any "He is an outstanding athlete on an It's unlikely that Walton will by it."
favorable situation he discovers. Wooden have steam-rollered 88 consecutive opponents since they outstanding team. Of course in-out tomorrow, but it's very likely But it was left to senior forward His actions will not be unlike 
received that unfavorable verdict juries are part of the game, but that the Bruins will find them­Gary Novak and Phelps himself tothose of a trial lawyer; and when you have the number one and selves sharing the ACC floor with pin down the key to a possible Irish tomorrow afternoon, just a few in the A.C.C., and with each two teams in the nation going another team that's starting to jell. victory: defense. "We have tomoments after 12 o'clock, that's passing season the UCLAns grow play defense," said Novak. "Weexactly what Notre Dame's Digger more and more disrespectful against each other its just better Notre Dame, 9-o and ranked have to play it better than ever onPhelps will be. toward the precent established by for everyone concerned to have second nationally, has been Saturday."
Austin Carr, Collis Jones, and Co. them at full capacity. priming for the Bruins since
The Irish coach will be seeking to "We've been playing very well
And tomorrow, just as the Irish
uphold the landmark decision "But we are not," he em-Tuesday's 104-77 drubbing of defensively the entire season,"hope to have the Carr Decision
rendered in Notre Dame's favor on phasized, "playing Bill Walton. Georgetown, and the Irish are as echoed Phelps, "and we'll have to
upheld, the Bruins hope to have it
January 23rd, 1971. That case, overturned. -We're playing UCLA." ready for their out-of-town guests be at our sharpest on defenseas they'll ever be.
which was tried in--or on--the same against UCLA--whether Walton
And "playing UCLA" meanscourt which will showcase And Johnny Wooden's 1973 club "We have our game plan for plays or not."
playing a team which !J:1s out­
tomorrow's action, extablished a (currently 13-Q and top-ranked UCLA ready," said Phelps, "and And if Notre Dame can play
scored its 1973 opponents by nearly 
monumental precedent in Notre everywhere) is will enough versed we're thankful for the opportunity defense such as that, attorney
30 per game (86.4-60.0), and which
Dame's basketball history in the art of court persuasion to to play the Number One team. Phelps will have a sound case to
has outrebounded those same
make their appeal stick once and Ucla will play that 2-2-1 zone press plead against the defending
The decision rendered three opponents by an average of ten per 
for all. 
and a 1-3-1 offense. Oh, they have a National Champions.
years ago stated that a Fighting game (46.9-36.9). Irish basketball team could, in­Even the cloudy status of All­
It also means playing against the deed,beat a similar part~-from the American Bill Walton has failed to 
likes of senior forward Keith
University of California at Los dim UCLA's chances for a third 
Wilkes (6-7, 180, 16.4ppg), senior
Angeles. Furthermore, the consecutive unbeaten season. The 
swing-man Pete Trgovich (6-5, 175
decision stressed that such an Irish 6-11 senior wrenched his back two 
8.8), junior forward Dave Meyer~ 
Blarney Stone(d)
triumph, ideally, should follow--by weeks ago in the Bruins'triumph 
_(6-7, 205, 10.8ppg), and a cluster of 
not more than 21 days--a Notre over Washington State, but did 
talented reserves.
Dame bowl victory over a top­accompany the team on its current ranked football opponent. midwestern swing, and will play if So deep is the Bruin bench that 



:X 
I ;. t 
So tomorrow at noon, in front of a his coach gives him a green light. when injuries of foul trouble (as 
The dark-haired man sat at his desk, opening his mail. He came to a package, and he eyed it 
carefully. It was addressed to him, and there was no return-address. He opened it cautiously, revealing a cassette tape and several photographs. He took the tape and placed it into the tape recorder, at the same time taking the photos in his left hand. With his right, he pressed the "on" button down: 
"Good morning Mr. Phelps. 
John Wooden <the first picture), head coach of UCLA , has run up an impressive record of 578 -140 during his 26 years as mentor in Los Angeles. Known as the Wizard of Westwood, Wooden's teams have won nine of the last 10 NCAA 
championships. Coach Digger Phelps In the process, the man they call "Coach" has piloted the Bruins to 88 straight victories since losing to the Dee C. Three in South Bend in 1971. Last season, his team won its 61 straight game before 11,343 in the A.C.C. and a national audience witnessing the game over TVS. His top player at the moment is this red-haired, 6-11 giant, Bill Walton (second picture). Walton has won the James Naismith Player of the Year Year Award thg last two seasons, breaking the streak of one held by Austin Carr of Notre Dame. Also, Walton has been the Most Valuable Player in the NCAA tournament over the same duration. Walton is ably assisted on the court by Keith Wilkes (third picture) a 6­6 fo~ward. When .. Walton went to the bench with four fouls in' St. Lams a few weeks ago, as you know, Wilkes came through with 27 points to help defeat the Wolfpack of North Carolina State. There are other players whom Wooden can call on. It has been said Wooden h~s ~h tall~t and the most talented bench in the nation today. Your miSSion, Dtck, should you accept it, is to stop that streak of 88 games: Th~re are several reasons for it: 1) the top-ranking is at stake; 
The Bruins are back! 

2) Cahforma governor Ronald Reagan, formerly George Gipp in the movies, has asked his good friend, Richard Nixon, to ask Congress to change the name of the NCAA championships to the UCLA InvitationaL It is rumored that if this comes about, Reagan will stop a California in­vestigat~on i~to !':lixon's state tax returns; and 3) As you know, Wooden is your chief nval m the commercia Is for Gilbert's 
~s .always, ~ick, should you . or your Irish basketball team fail in your miSSIOn, the Director of Athletics, Edward W. Krause, will disavow am· knowledge of your activites, at least for this game. • 

Good lUI.:k, Dick. This tape will self-destruct in 10 seconds." 
. Phelps ~at and watched as the ~ape destroyed itself. He then placed the ptctures down, strucka match and set them on fire. Next, the Irish coach reached into his drawer and took out some pictures of his own IMF force. The first picture was of his assistants, Dick DiBiaso and Frank ~cLaughlin. The second was a picture of his basketball squad. Phelps didn't hesitate in putting their pictures down, signifying he would use them m tomorrow's episode. 
The third picture, ~owever, was the one which Phelps concentrated on the most. ~t was a picture of 11,343 screaming, delirious fans, the same number which would be on hand for tomorrow's assignment. 

"They never quit on us," he thought. . There ~as one more picture, but Phelps quickly depositied it in the
Bill Walton Coach John Wooden circular ftle. After all, he had no use for Martin Landau. 












