
OD The IDslde 
Pat Hearst accused 
... page 3 Food price survey ... page 6 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIii, No. 109 Thursday, April 18, 1974 
Bullet dinner to be served 

Prohibition hits Irish Wake 
by Terry Keeney News Editor 
Alcoholic beverages will not be served at the Irish Wake Saturday night in com­pliance with last Tuesday's Indiana Court of Appeals ruling which extended legal liability to any persons serving intoxicating beverages to minors. 
In a joint statement issued yesterday by the An Tostal Committee and the office of the Dean of Students, an alternative plan was announced. In place of serving beer a buffet supper will be served. The buffet supper will include over 300 pounds of various meats as well as soft drink refresh­ments. 
"Although this is a disappointment to all those in­volved in the planning of the Irish Wake, it is hoped that the evening can still be one of the highlights of the weekend," read the joint statement. 
Dean of Students John Macheca expressed disap­pointment over the change in Irish Wake plans last night at the meeting of the An Total committee. He emphasized that his office and the An Tostal committe had no choice but to bar serving of beer at the Wake. 
New court ruling 
With the new court ruling, Macheca explained, "you get into the whole area of providing or having reasonable knowledge of alcohol being served to minors. This is where the University comes in." 
Right now we haven't got some place to put our feet down on solid ground with respect to serving alcohol to minors," Macheca explained. 
Macheca observed that the idea of a substitute buffet is not a panacea," but it was the best idea we would come up with." 
Macheca was most concerned that the new ,court ruling would negate the efforts of his office to provide an open atmosphere for campus parties. 

Student reaction 
Despite the decision not to serve beer, Irish Wake 
organizers are confident the event will still be a suc­
cess. 
"We'hope this will be a classy event,-said Gasior. 
He cited the catered buffet as an important element in 
the success of the evening. 
"Our main concern is that people get out of the beer 
syndrome they are in," Gasior explained, "and con­
sider all the time and effort that went into this." 
Ron Paja, assistant chairman of An Tostal, added, 
"We've got everything going for us -the band, the 
place, the food." 


Gasior is quick to point out that the decision not to serve beer at the Wake was made jointly by the An Tostal Committee and the Dean of St.udents. "Student Affairs is just as disappointed this feel through as we are," argued Gasior. 
Paja agreed: "People are making the wrong con­nection between the decision and the University. Dr. Faccenda was really upset about it after all the work hetl done this year." 
Other party plans 

Macheca announced that along with the Irish Wake all other campus parties at which alcohol is served will not be approved by his office at the present time. 
He pointed out that there will be no parties until the SLC can draw up a party policy for the university which meets the new Indiana state law. 
The SLC meets this afternoon to begin action on such a new policy. 
Howl resigns from 0-C position, cites possible interest conflicts 
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 
Bob Howl, chairman of the Hall President's Council, resigned from his post as Off-Campus Com­missioner. Howl succeeded Pat McLaughlin after his victory as Student Body President. He is replaced by Paul McEvily who has served as Student Body Provost. 
Commenting on his resignation, Howl said, "I talked to Pat McLaughlin, and we agreed that the situation wouldn't be fair if some conflict arose between the 
HPC and student Government. In my dual role I'd be split between each governing body. We didn't anticipate any problems with my double position, but you can never predict what issues may arise." 
Howl said of his replacement. "I have confidence in Paul, and I know he can do the job just as well as anybody else." 
Speaking about his position as Chairman of the HPC., Howl ad­ded, "I will still work with Student Government. As HPC chairman, I am a commissioner on the Student Government cabinet." 
McEvily described programs being sponsored by the off-campus office. "Most of the programs we are working on right now were intiated by Bob. The people I'm working with have started working on a comparative price list in food and drug stores," commented McEvily. 
Another student is checking out the feasibility of having a food co­op on campus. He has learned that co-ops have been established in situations similar to Notre Dame's. Also, other students have made inquiries about increasing police protection in the off-campus area. 
Discussion the off-campus situation, McEvily said, "It is our ambition to do more than was done last year for off-campus people. It is my opinion that the center of social life for upperclassmen is off­campus, McEvily stated. 
He continued, "as freshmen, everyone wanted to live on-campus because of all the advantages. Now, however, students who have high room pick numbers are moving off-campus voluntarily. This movement to off-campus living makes my job easier, but my duties will be extended. Never­theless, we want to do something for those who are forced off. We still want to make them feel that they are still a part of the com­munity. 


Refunds 

Gasior stated yesterday that any student wishing his 
money back for the Irish Wake ticket can get a refund 
tonight from 6:30 to 8 in the Fiesta Lounge, LaFortune 
Student Cnter. 
"People who got Beach Boy tickets with the Irish 
Wake ticket will get $2.00 back. Everybody else will 
get $4.00," said Gasior. 

An Tostal news 

Easter break should have been a great time to polish up your routines for Frivolous Friday's "Im­personation Contest" and "The Sixth Original An Tostal Amateur Hour." Freshmen are especially encouraged to enter since their acts are, well, especially fresh. , 
Last year's Impersonation Contest showcased Kevin O'Neil's rendition of Louies (of Louie's) and his sparkling sermonette as Keenan Hall's Fr. Griffin. Tom Parise was a stand-out as Muhammud Ali and Ara Parseghian, to name a few. Only one girl, Sail) Wendrow, the courage to enter 
Last year's Impersonation Contest showcased Kevin O'Neil's rendition of Louie (of Louie's) and his sparkling sermonette as Keenan Hall's Fr. Griffin. Tom Parise was a stand-out as Muhammud Ali and Ara Parseghian, to name a few. Only one girl, Sally Wendrow, had the courage to enter. She lip-synched a few songs by Cher (formerly of Sonny and ...), but more eyes were focused on her costume than her lips. 
The amateur hour spotlighted "belly singers" (as opposed to dancers -you had to see it to believe it), a chorus line from St. Mary's, and winner Dan Payne's solo performances of the William Tell Overture and the Notre Dame Victory March -on his teeth. 
Creativity and imagination counts. For details, call Fred Baranowski about the amateur hour (call 3209) and Kevin Maguire about the impersonation contest <call 7962). 
111111111111-1101111-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIII 


Funds donated 

A very unexpected and far-reaching extension of 
Indiana law, in the form of a recent decision of the 
Indiana Court of Appeals, has forced a change in the 
beverage plans for the Irish Wake. In order to com­
pensate for this necessary change, a buffet supper is 
being added to the evening's festivities. Although this 
is a disappointment to all those involved in the plan­
ning of the Irish Wake, it is hoped that the evening can 
still be one of the highlights of the weekend. 
As' part of the Student Affairs office's continued 
commitment to the success of An Tostal and the Irish 
Wake, half of the funds needed to finance the buffet 
supper will be provided through a benefactory of that 
office. 

Molly McGuire, Judy Shlely~SusyAugustus, Mary Clemency . 
--------~--­
the observer Thursda~, April 18,_ ~974 

warld 
briefs 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPll-A young woman became the 510th known suicide from the Golden Gate Bridge Tuesday when she leaped from the span mo!'Ilents . after a friend telephoned authoriti€s to warn she was gomg to kill herself. 
PARIS (UPH--Prime Minister Pierre Messmer called on voters Wednesday to reject the Communist backed left-wing candidate for president, Francois M~tt~rand,_ or face _a "dangerous adventure." Mitterand said in a rad1o mtervww that 1f he were elected he would name a Socialist premier. 
MOSCOW <UPI >--Police in Kiev held prize-winning author Viktor 
p. Nekrasov overnight, releasing him Wednesday after he paid a 15-ruble 19.80 dollar fine for alleged drunken hooliganism, friends said. The friends did not say whether the writer had been drinking. 
BUENOS AIRES <UPI>-Alfred A. Laun III, the U.S. diplomat kidnaped and shot by leftwing guerrillas last Friday, was flown to Panama Wednesday to continue medical treatment, the U.S. Embassy announced. 
MOSCOW <UPI>--Using mustard seeds flown in space, So~iet scientists have decideed that weightlessnes may change hered1ty, theTass news agency said today. 
EAST HARTFORD, Conn. <UPI>-A jury of four men and two women has been selected to determine if the film "Deep Throat," seized at a Rockville, Conn., theater in January, is obscene. 
an campu• ~aday 
9:00 a.m. thru 5:00 p.m.--meetings, peace corps and vista representatives lib. lobby 
1:30 p.m.--law school arguments, indiana court of appeals conducts oral arguments, cce aud. free 
7:00 
p.m.--lecutre, "theory on ugly poems," by gail mandell, stapleton lounge, free 

7:00 
and 9:30 p.m.--film, "a midsummers night dream" audio­visual aud. free to n.d. family 


7:30 
p.m.--lecture, "jesus and the disciples as miracle workers in the new testament and the aprocrypha" by p. j. achtemeier, rich­mond, rm. 110, law school, free 

7:30 
p.m.--charismatic, intro. to charismatic renewal, butler bldg. free 


8:00 p.m.--symposium, american foreign policy in post-vietnam era, rms. 210-214 cce free 
8:00p.m. symposium, "detente: reality or rhetoric?" by charles burton marshall, rm. 210-214 cce 
8:15 p.m.--student recital, kit buskovltch on piano, little theatre, free 
8:30 p.m.--meeting, charimatlc prayer meet. holy cross hall free 
mcn'l hail 1tyling 
men's hair Stylin 



~~~S~ir BtqZin 
WHATEVER THE STYLE IT'S A
• 
2§§·8600 a~" / ..
fl!.·e"'r)[:~ 
~· "'\\s\S
s\1 
HAIR CARE FOR 
Faculty Senate votes=-~ BOAC 
for neW' pay policy 
by Sue Nash Staff Reporter 
Meeting under the chairmanship of Professor Norman Haaser of the department of mathematics, the Faculty Senate, by a 19-3 margin, approved a Statement on Faculty Salaries and Retirement to be issued to all faculty members for their reaction. 
After a 2% hour debate, the • Faculty Senate ~reed last night to circulate the proposition calling for improved retirement benefits and higher faculty salaries at the expense of the University en­dowment fund and of endowed professorships. 
The statement was an outgrowth of a meeting between the Faculty Senate Delegation on the Retirement Plan and represen­tatives of the Administration. 
On February 24, Drs. Haaser, James Cushing (physics), Paul McLane (English), and Joseph Tihen (biology) had consulted with Fathers Theodore Hesburgh (president), Jerome Wilson (vice president for business affairs), James Burtchaell (provost), and Ferdinand Brown (associate provost and Dr. Robert Gordon <vice president for advanced studies) to discuss the Plan. 
Faculty dissatisfaction with 
retirement benefits stems from the 
fact that due to a step-rate 
retirement plan, money set aside 
for retirement has decreased in the 
past several years. Under this 
system, the Universsity con­
tributes less money towards 
retirement on that part of a 
professor-s salary which is taxed 
by social security. 
In the last seven years, the 
social security base has risen from 
$6600 to $13,200, significantly 
curtailing retirement funds. In­
tensifying the problem is the 
failure of salary increases to meet 
rises in the cost of living. 
Discussion of the statement was 
protracted due to several am­
biguities. Principal among these 
was how the survey was to be 
utilized. 
It was unclear whether the 
primary concern was to_ poll 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 
46556. 

AIR FORCE 

opinion or to gather support for the proposal. Agreement was finally reached that the statement would be used as substantiation of the senate-s position. 
A special meeting has been called to deal with these problems Tuesday night, April 23. 
I 
t-





w ND 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 

John Gay's ribald musical romp Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
A MOTHER'S DAY SPECIAL WITH 


FRANK ZAPPA 
AND THE 

MOTHERS OF INVENTION 
and special guest soon to be announced 
Sunday/ May 12 

7:30pm 

at the Notre Dame A. C. C. 
Tickets are $5.50, $4.50, and $3.50 and are availbable at the ACC Box Office, Boogie Records and the other usua I ticket outlets in the 
area. 

PRODUCED BY BOOGIE· RECORDS & KARMA-SHOWCASE PRODUCTIONS 
ROTC HAS TWO-YEAR 



SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE FOR 
COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY ARCHITECTURE AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING AEROSPACE ENGINEERING ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING ASTRONAUTICAL ENGINEERING 
We still have Youth Ft~res to Europe 
Call Clark 234-2098 and save money. 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 

Student • Faculty ND-SMC Staff 
CIVIL ENGINEERING 

ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING MECHANICAL ENGINEERING MATHEMATICS METEOROLOGY 
Is your major listed above? Could you use help to defray your college expenses? If you _hav_e two years of school remaining, undergraduate, graduate or combmat1on, you could be eligible for an Air Fa-ce ROTC two-year scholarship. It pays full tuition, all fees, textbooks, and $100 
each month . For more details contact: 

Capt. Shepherd Building 5 ph. 6634 
Put it all together in Air Force ROTC 
MEN 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544 


'' 
' -•• I ~ ' I •• c. f., ' ••• '• I 
. . . ·. ~ ~ ' ; • • -· •• ! 
'·. .... . . . . . . . ...
~ 
~~~ -~-{~~)'.[~!::-;.;~;.~ ••• , •••• ~~~ ........ .
-.. -........ .. 
Thursday, April 18, 1974 :the ob~wveT
--. -

Saxbe believes Hearst •


IS guilty 

SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) ­
U.S. 
Attorney James Browning said Wednesday a grand jury will have to decide whether Patricia Hearst was a willing participant in a bank robbery. 

U.S. 
Attorney General William 

B. 
Saxbe said he thought she was and called her a "common criminal." 


Browning said a grand jury was looking into the robbery Monday of the Hibernia Bank by the Symbionese Liberation Army, kidnapers of the Hearst heiress. 
"The voluntariness of the actions is a question of fact the grand jury will have to decide," U.S. Attorney James Browning said. 
Browning, who had said Patricia may have been co­erced by her Symbionese Liberation Army kidnapers into taking part in the bank robbery, issued a statement saying: 
"I have consistently main­tained that evidence may show all participants in that robbery were acting freely and volun­tarily. After the grand jury has heard all available evidence I will abide by their decision." 
Browning said the grand jury would investigate both the bank robbery and the kidnaping of Patricia, who was abducted from her Berkeley apartment Feb. 4. 
In Washington, Saxbe said he had concluded Patricia "was not a reluctant participant" in the holdup. His opinion, he told newsmen, was based on "the way she behaved, the number 
of people in the bank who observed her behavior, the 
lOWEST

YOUTH 
FARES TO EUROPE 



$!00 
~ 

Round-trip jet, New York to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe, Sept. thru May for stays of up to a year. Show proof of age. Book within 30 days of your flight. 
YOU CAN BE IN EUROPE TOMORROW! 
Icelandic Airlines also offers one-week car, rail and ski tours to Europe, Nov. thru March. Get details on our youth and student fares and lowest-cost tours to Europe of any scheduled airline. See your travel agent. 
r"'fo:iCiiia.idiCA'lriTne'S_____1 
~fM;:,t' t8~a5~.T~·~~ ~~:~ ~~~i;~e 
1 

N. Y. State (800) 221-9760 1 
Send folder CN on Lowest Youth I Fares to Europe 0 Tours 0 I Name I Street I 
City 1 
1

State Zip J My travel agent is I 
ICELANDIC!
L-------------J 
testimony of witnesses, and the actions in the bank." 
At his home in suburban Hillsborough, Randolph A. Hearst, Patricia's father, called Saxbe's remarks "speech­making." 
"Saxbe has the right to think what he thinks, and I also have that right," Hearst said. "As far as I'm concerned, it's speculation at this point." 
Although Patricia was one of four women and a man who entered the bank carrying semi-automatic rifles, she was named by Browning and the FBI only as a material witness. The others, including the SLA leader who calls himself "Cinque," were charged with bank robbery. 
FBI Agent-in-Charge Charles Bates and Browning said there was evidence that Patricia was coerced into taking part in the robbery because photographs showed SLA members pointing guns at her. 
In another attempt to break up the small band of terrorists known as the SLA, California Attorney General Evelle J. Younger announced the issu­ance of warrants for the arrest of four persons he identified as associates of the kidnapers. The four are Angela Atwood, Emily 
· Harris, William Harris and William Wolfe. 

They were charged with perjury in giving false names when applying for California driver's licenses but all have been identified as having SLA ties. 
Angela Atwood is suspected of being the blonde woman who knocked at the door of Patricia's apartment the night of Feb. 4 and asked to use the phone, opening the way for the SLA kidnapers to burst in and seize the girl. 
Emily Harris and her hus­band, Bill, are known friends of Russell Little, an SLA member who is being held on charges of murdering Oakland School Su­perintendent Marcus Foster 
last Nov. 6. In the Harrises' quarters in an effort to destroy 
apartment police found SLA evidence. literature. All four named in warrants William Wolfe has been announced by Youn'ger van­
identified as a suspect in a ished immediately after the bungled attempt last January house was burned in Concord, to burn down a house allegedly across the bay east of San being used as an SLA _ head-Francisco. 
MECHA IS SPONSORING A 
Book Drive 
FOR PRISONERS IN 
STATE PRISONS 
Contribute your Spanish books or any others dealing with Spain or Latin America at the MECHA Office--basement of Lafortune 
from 3-5pm Wed-Fri 


EDITORIALS: 283-8661  NEWS:  283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471  
Tom Drape  
Editor-in-Chief  
AnnMcCarry Editorial Editor  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  

Terry Keeney John Kloos 
Lee Gentine 

News Editor Advertising Manager 
Business Manager 
April 18, 1974 





Sucker's Punch 
In a barroom brawl, it's known as a sucker's punch. Again, the students are the ones that have been clobbered; only this time it is the State of Indiana and not the university that has thrown the punch. And it's a stinger. 
The recent ruling by the Indiana Court of Appeals, besides damaging plans for the new Irish Wake, now threatens destruction of the new University guidelines on alcohol. The first reaction ­-"the University has done it to us again" couldn't be further from the truth. It is the regressiveness of Indiana , namely its refusal to lower the drinking age and now the current ruling which holds any person or institution liable for any damage that an intoxicated minor might cause, that is to blame. 
As a result of the Indiana higher court ruling stating that not only those who sell but also those who serve minors are now liable, the Student Affairs office was forced to suspend plans involving the use of alcohol at the Irish Wake. Certainly it is a disappointment but the ad­ministration's as well as the student's hands are tied by the Court of Appeals decision. 
Even though the buffet dinner seems litttle compensation, the opportunity for an enjoyable evening for the students, provided by the students, still remains. 
The larger implications of the Indiana courtt decision are still to be felt over the university guidelines which can not be described by any word other than tenuous. Conceivably, they could be invalidated. 
Students and administration resources should be quickly organized to actively deal with the decision. An ef­fective student lobby, coordinated with the legal and administrative talent of tthe university, could bear pressure in the state legislature. 
Additional effectiveness could also arise with the organization and coor­dination of lobbies representing all In­diana college campuses. The formation of a coalition of student lobby representatives from all the universities in Indiana should become a top priority and the direct responsibility of our student government. 
The Student Life Council will hold the balance in any decision changing the present party guidelines. The common realization among the SLC members ­student, faculty, and administration alike, must be that the entire Notre Dame community is dependent upon their decision to continue the value oriented use of alcohol on campus. 
We may be down but we are certainly not out. A swift and combined effort between student and administration must first be sought and then applied. 
With a solid one-two combination we'll be ready to fight. 
Tom Drape 
51Jrvey Indicative 
With its first appearance in today's Observer, the survey of area food prices conducted by Student Government must be applauded. The survey reflects not only a campaign promise made good but also serves to indicate a sizeable amount of energy from an administration not yet three weeks old. 
Should this prove to be indicative of the new Student Government, then it will mark the arrival of a long awaited and sorely needed student leadership. 
The published survey is designed to offer the off-campus student as well as administrators, faculty, and staff weekl price comparisons of more commonly used foodstuffs at area food marts in order to help keep food expenditures down. 
Continued success of the survey could serve as a definite aid to that portion of the Notre Dame community living off the campus. With the proper response it could serve as a springboard for future coordinated student government efforts. Let McLaughlin and crew know how they are doing for it will serve to ours as well as their benefit. 
Tom Drape 

_ New Direc:tian•----­
The death of beauty 
-----rick Ia salvia_ 
Timmy cries when hurt and laughs when happy as any child would. He expresses his love for his mother with sighs of joy and squeals of laughter as any child would. Only when a small, yellow bus drives up one morning do you realize that Timmy is not like every child. On the side of the bus there stands out in bold lettering: Cuyahoga County School for the Retarded. Timmy is a retarded child willo lives next door to me in a suburb of Cleveland. It's not important to me that Timmy is retarded. It's not important because in my eyes, Timmy is just that little five year old I see running with the wind on sunny days. But since January 1973 when the Supreme Court handed down the Roe v Wade abortion decision, a physician's prouncement that a child will be born mentally retarded has in some cases become a death sentence for the unborn. It is the purpose of this article to chart the social consequences of the Roe v Wade decision, that is, the tragic destruction of the unborn and the increasing dominance of an ethic which holds that the value of a person can only be found in his social utility. 
The Supreme Court in the Roe v Wade decision instructed the state legislatures to rewrite their abortion statutes to conform with their ruling that a woman, with the consent of a consulting physician, may initiate an abortion anytime before viability, which is the point after which the fetus can survive outside of the womb, between six and seven months. Once the child is viable the state may prohibit abortion except in cases when the life or health of the mother is threatened. Many critics contend that the Court's use of the word "health" is so ambiguous that a woman will be able to obtain an abortion after viability not just to preserve her physical health, but also her psychological well-being. 
As a consequence of this decision, abortion clines are springing up as fast as hamburger stands throughout America. The average cost of an abortion is $200, a small price to pay for those who do not want to face the inconveninece of preganncy, the high cost of raising a child, or the proble,s involved in caring for a retarded or deformed child. During the past few years a new diagnostic tool has been increasingly used in the medical profession. This tool is called amnicocentesis, which involves the analysis of the fluid from the expectant mother's womb. In some cases a number of hereditary diseases can be treated by this remarkable process. But if the child is detected to be mongoloid , a type of retardation, nothing can be done to treat him in the womb. Many doctors recommend abortion in the case of retar­dation and many parents are eager to go along with their doctor's advice becasue of the widespread, tragic belief that the retarded are subhumans. Once the retarded child is born, he will be able to reach his full potential if he is placed in an intellectually and emotionally stimulating environment. 
The Roe v Wade decision has opened the door to the social engineers in the medical, legal and scientific communities who judge the value of a human being by theamount amount of productivity he is capable of generating. In their view a mongoloid child like Timmy should have been aborted becasue he would never be able to contribute to the scientific progress of mankind. They are unable to see beyond the empirical world of tissue and blood and gaze into the majesty of man's soul, the true source of his humanity. 
The ethic of the social engineer is reflected in the Court's written opinion. The vital distinction was made between viable life in the womb and meaningful life after birth. Fetus life cannot be protected becasue tin the Court's mind there is "controversy" as to whether or not the unborn's life is "meaningful". Will the Court in future decisionsdeclare that the lives of the elderly or retarded cannot be protected because ther is "controversy" over whether or not their lives are "meaningful"? Should society's economic resources be used to support the elderly or educate a retarded child like Timmy whose principle contribution will be the love which he shares with his family and neighbor?
After Roe v Wade human life is now being weighed on the scales of social convenience. We are increasingly being influenced by the social engineer for whom life ha no intrinsic vlaue beyond its potential for productivity. As members of a Catholic University we have the responsibility to state our frm belief that the value of a human being is not derived from his social usefulmess, but from the fact that he was created by a God who is Good and Just. The fight must begin now to overturn the Supremem Court's decision by passing a constitutional amendment in the Congress and state legislatures which would protect the right to life for the unborn, retarded, physiclally han­dicapped, and elderly. The price of our inaction and Silence will be the continued destruction of the unborn and an increasing threat to the basic constitional right to due process and equal protection under the law for our mentally and physically handicapped citizens. 
Justice Douglas recently argued in an ecology case that the swamps and woodpeckers of America should be considered legal persons entitled to due process under the law. Ifswamps and woodpeckers can be considered legal persons according to the Justice's logic, why does the Court continue to deny the legal right to lige for the most defen­seless of all beings, the unborn? The real core of America's beauty is her children. When unborn children are destroyed by abortion, we are depriving our land of great natural beauty, the sight of children like Timmy running with the wind on sunny days. 
-'the observer-----------­
Night Editor: AI Rutherford Assistant Night Editors: Mike Kulczyckl, Dan 
Sanchez Lay-out: Tim O'Reilly, Ginny Faust Sports: Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor Day Editors: Gregg Bangs, Tom Russo Typists: Mary Romer, Barb Norcross, Barb Haug, 
Tom Modglin, John Flanigan Night Controller: Phil Orscheln Editorials: Annie & T.D. Special Guest: Jim Brogan 

Thursday, Ap~~1_aL 197_,_.4______;t:..:..h.:...:e::...._:o:...:b=-=-s-=e-=-r-=-v-=e:...:r__S=­
Cyclists toridelorretarded 
by Jane Thornton Staff Reporter 

An estimated 500 cyclists from the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community are expected to turn out for the fund-raising event, "Ride-a-Bike for the Retarded" set for April28 in St. Joseph's County. John (Jay) Niederman, registration committee chairman, is holding an organizational meeting tonight at 7:00p.m. in 1-C LaFortune to enlist dorm representatives and register riders. 
The state-wide charity event, sponsored by the Indiana State Teachers Association's local chapter, is promoted on campus by the ND-8MC Council for the Retarded. Proceeds will go to Logan Center and the Council for the Retarded of St. Joseph County. 
The Notre Dame swimming team will serve as the pace team over the 25 mile riverside route beginning and ending at Logan 


ND students suspected 
Two SMC sign-out books stolen 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

Two unidentified disguised men, believed to be Notre Dame students, removed the sign-out 
books  from  LeMans  and  
McCandless  Halls  around  10:00  
Sunday night.  

According to St. Mary's Security Director Anthony Kovatch, the two 

Chariots sought lor An Tostal 
extravaganza 
Chariot builders of the campus, take note. The finest chariots in motion picture history were on display last Friday evening when CBS presented the movie "Ben­Hur" in conjunction with the An Tostal Committee. If you tuned in to CBS last Friday an witnessed the thrilling chariot race which inspired An Tostal's exciting race of races, you might have picked up some pointers. 
To reiterate the rules, the chariots must have two wheels, carry one rider, and be drawn by four horsemen. Two cases of beverages will be awarded--one to the team building the fastest chariot and another to the builders of the best-designed chariot. 
There will be a parade of the racing chariots from the Grotto to the "amphitheatre" twenty minutes before the start of the race. For further information, contact "Hush" Brauweiler at 1487. 
ATTENTION ARTS AND LETTERS Present Freshman, Sophomores, and Juniors. Applications for the '74-75 


A&L STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL 
are now being accepted. Each applicant must write a brief statement-­one typewritten page or less--on why the person would be interested and qualified. Please include present class year, address, and phone number, and submit it to the 
DEAN'S OFFICE, ROOM 137 O'SHAUGHNESSEY, NO LATER THAN THURSDAY, APRIL 25-AT 4:PM 
(interviews will then be arranged) 
Center. Prior to the 1:00 p.m. starting time, riders solicit sponsors who pledge so much money per mile. Anyone wishing to pledge ten cents or more for a rider may do so by calling Logan Center before 5 p.m. daily. 
Official "stamps" at the four route checkpoints record the distance ridden. Collection of pledges will be made the following week. 
Niederman, a senior sociology major, is appealing especially to off-campus and graduate students since many own bikes. 0-C students may register next Monday and Tuesday in front of LaFortune's 0-C office. Faculty members are requested to return their notices as soon as possible. 
Proceeds, projected at $50,000 in St. Joseph's County, will im­plement the CFR's Community Residential Service Program. Through the service retarded individuals will move from in­stitutions and families into group home and apartment-type living in 
first took the books in McCandless and then 10 minutes later, stole those in LeMans. 
During the theft a mild skirmish broke out in LeMans, said Kovatch. When the two men began to take the books, Brenda Lardy, LeMans Hall director, asked them to stop but was pushed aside. Another ND student who had been talking with his girlfriend in the lobby, then came over and also tried to prevent the theft, knocking off the sunglasses and hat of one of the assailants. He was sub­sequently "roughed up" and was scratched by the student's ring. 
The two then took the books, joined a third man, and left the campus on foot, continued Kovatch. 
"We (security) checked all the cars leaving the campus within minutes after it happened," he said. 
The identity of those involved are not known, but an investigation is underway, he added. Descriptions of the three have been obtained, and both Lardy and the other student who attempted to halt the theft can positively identify them, Kovatch stated. 
Apparently, those involved in the 
theft wish to remain anonymous, 
the Observer received the 
following letter last night, signed 
by fictitious characters. 
Dear Editor, 
The Sting has come to St. 
Mary's College. Last Easter 
Sunday night at 9:40 LeMans 
and McCandless halls found 
their sign-out books missing. 

This childish, immature, and 
ridiculous action could only be 
surpassed by the childish, the community. Given this greater independence and responsibility, the person's life is "normalized" to a large extent. Tentatively, Logan initiates the nation-wide development project next year. 
Niederman says the ride "gives students to do something for someone less fortunate than themselves who is not given the responsbility or the independence he is capable of having." 
Another advantage he sees is meeting diversified, interesting people in the South Bend com­munity. 
So far, many are endorsing the promotion, including University President Theodore M. Hesburgh, Governor Otis Bowen, and Congressman John Brademas who will cut the ceremonial ribbon, the Navy ROTC, Circle K, the Flying Club and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. 
For information, instructions, etc., contact St. Mary's representative Sue Maude at 5224 or Niederman at 7819. 
immature, ridiculous, and sickening rules at St. Mary's College. But don't feel bad because you were conned by the best. We wish to apologize for the unnecessary football tactics in LeMans and for any injuries incurred. Don't bother looking for the evidence. It's been deep-sixed in St. Mary's Lake. By the way, we hope you had a happy Easter. 
Yours Truly, 
Harry Gondorff Johnny Hooker 
J. J. Singleton Kid Twist 

Unless the books are returned, Kovatch threatens to prosecute those students involved. Because of the expense of the books, he added, the charge against them could be considered a felony. 
No relation could be drawn between this theft and a similar one which occurred in Holy Cross on April 1, he added. 
"What started out as a prank has turned into petty theft and assault," commented Dean of Students Ken Mulaney on the incident. 
"The school has a legal responsibility to parents who think · the girls are signing in and out," 
she stated. 

According to Brenda Lardy, a new sign-out system is being considered for next year, because many SMC students thought a revision was needed. However, she noted that the theft has caused inconvenience for the hall staffs, since "extra precautions had to be set up." 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS 






VACATION 
AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrivetrefreshed and on time. You'll save money. too. over the increased standby air fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE-· ROUND-LEAVE ARRIVE TO WAY TRIP Chicago $ 5.30 $10.10 9:25 A.M. 11:25 A.M. Toledo $ 8.65 $16.45 9:15 A.M. 1:25 P.M. Pittsburgh $21.35 $40.60 6:20 A.M. 5:05 P.M. Milwaukee$ 8.75 $16.65 9:25 A.M. 2: 15 P.M. Detroit $11.10 $21.10 10:35 A.M.4: 30 P.M. 
Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 210WEST MONROE 287-6541 
... £11Greyhound
~ A change for the better 
-----------------------' 


the observEJT

-----=-----~------T.:.:h:.:.:U:.:r.:::S.:::da=.y!..!,:....::::APril 18, 1974 

Discovers best buys 
0-C Commision surveys local food prices 
by Michael Dewey Staff Reporter 

The Off-Campus Commission has conducted a comparative price survey in several local groceries and supermarkets. The project, sponsored jointly by the Off­Campus Commissioner's office and InPIRG in conjunction with the Observer is aimed at alerting the off-campus student to the best prices found on everyday items 
Members of these organizations have contacted a number of local merchants and requrest.ed current price information on food products, including sugar, milk, ground beef, dry cereal, oranges and beef. 
In some instances, store managers have been reluctant to provide such lists, according to Stan Cardenas, director of research and publication for the 0­C Commission. This is usually due to crowded schedules and lack of time. 
When these managers were unavailable, volunteerswent from aisle to aisle, searching for specific commodities and recording the prices. 
Survey returns have been compiled by Cardenas and his associations. 
Cardenas explained that con­sideration has to be given to dif­
Post-Vietnam directions explored by symposium 
"American Foreign Policy in the Post-Vietnam Era" is the topic for a symposium sponsored by the Department of Government and International Studies beginning Thursday, April 18 and ending Saturday, April 20. Participants will explore answers to important questions such as "Where do we 
stand after Vietnam?" 
All panels and addresses will be 

located in the Continuing Center 
for Education in rooms 210-214. 
Professor George Brinkley, 

chairman of the department, and 
Professor Stephen Kertesz, 
director of International_ Studies, 
have organized the symposium in 
six sessions. "We will evaluate. 
the problems in American foreign 
policy as they stand now and with 
respect to the future," commented 
Brinkley. "The topics will cover 
all areas of the world." 
Although· the topic generates 

discussion about the Vietnam War, 
"we will not assess the war; 
Vietnam is merely used as a time 
reference." 
Four panels highlight the 

symposium. The first panel, en­
titled "Moral and Historical 
Perspectives on American Policy" 
will take place on Friday at 9:00 
a.m. At 2:00p.m., a second panel is scheduled, "U.S. Relations with the Soviet Union." 
Early Saturday at 9:00a.m. another panel is scheduled titled "U.S. Relations with Eastern Europe and the Middle East." The fourth panel's topic is "Round Table on the Third World" and will take place at 2:00p.m. 


SENIORS • 

ferences in store sizes and in­ventory. The survey also accounts for variations between national brand-name items and locally­distributed goods. 
In the remaining weeks of the semester, two additional surveys will be taken and their results published in the Observer. These will include different commodities providing a variety in information. 
Following the end of classes the Off-Campus Commissioners will evaluate the results of the ex­perimental period. 
After the evaluation has been made, the program will be resumed with any needed changes. 
The ultimate aim of the project is to set up food coops which will sell food products to students at cost. 
No profit will be made by the Commission. This dream, Car­denas concluded, will only be realized with a total effort by everyone concerned. He ex· pressed the realization that manpower is lacking in many areas of Off-Campus organization. 
Members of the Off-Campus Commission who have assisted in the completion of the first survey include Adel Tavadnos, Kevin Murphy and Mark Miller. Pic Petelle and Mr. and Mrs. Mark Sylor are the participating members of InPIRG. 
Two addresses will be presented the first on Thursday at 8:00 en: titled "Detente: Reality or Rhetoric?" and the second one "The Status and Future of U.s: Common Market Relations" scheduled for 8:00p.m. Friday. 
Authorities on American Foreign Policy from Notre Dame and elsewhere will each present a prepared paper followed by a short question and answer session. These papers presented at the symposium will be compiled and published in a book form next fall said Brinkley. ' 
One of the scheduled speakers Heldman, is not able to attend th~ symposium this week, but will present his topic next Tuesday in a separate lecture. 
store 
item 

ominoe Sugar 5 lb. 
store brand sugar round beef 1 lb. hicken fryer 1 lb. 
ilk -1 gal. -2 percent 
Blue Bonnet margarine tore brand margarine ranges -112 doz. lettuce old Medal flour -5 lb. read 

store brand bread Crisco veg. oil -24 oz. Keilogs Corn Flakes -18 oz. store brand cornflakes ..oca-Cola -8 pk. 16 oz. Strohs (cans) 12 pk. $trohs (bottles) 6 pk. II>el Monte canned corn • 16 oz. !itore brand canned corn Peter Pan peanut butter • 28 oz. store brand peanut butter . 28 oz. Nabisco saltine crackers store brand crackers 
gs (grade A large) Oscar Meyer hot dogs 1 lb. store brand hot dogs 1 lb. Swift Premium bacon 1 lb. store brand bacon Minute Maid orange juice store brand orange juice Banquet beef pot pie store brand beef pot pie pork steak 1 lb. Starklst tuna 7 oz. store brand tuna 7 oz. Folger's coffae 3 lb. can store brand coffee po_!'k chops 1 lb. Hamburger Helper spaghetti Chef-Boy-ar-Dee spaghetti Campbell's Pork&Beans store brand pork&beans Lay's potato chips store brand potato chips Dial hand soap Tide wash soap Birdseye frozen corn store brand frozen corn Birdseye frozen beans store brand frozen beans Crest toothpaste Scott toilet paper potatoes 10 lbs. 
Jim 
'63 

Chuck 
'65 

Give your parents a break!!! Look 
yo~r best at graduation time. With a 
hairstyle from The Windjammer. 
Ca II soon for an appt. 

Uhe WirWjammer 
1637 Lincoln Way W. # 232-6622 
1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
Stretch your bucks with our beer buys 
CASE SPECIAL--LESS THAN $4.00 12 pack--less than $2.30 6 pack--less than $1.16 Many brands have been marked down 
COLD OR WARM--SAME PRICE 
EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORDER KEGS-

Loyola University of Chicago 
Summer Sessions 
Day and Evening Classes 
Departments of Instruction Accounting Finance Anthropology Fine Arts Business Law History Biology Management Chemistry Marketing Classical Studies Mathematics Communication Arts Modern Languages Economics (Accelerated courses Education in French, German, 
-~-~~~~~~-------------------~-~p_a_~i~~)__________________ ---------_ 
For more inform.t'tion, mail this coupan to: 
Ll>YOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO SUMMER SESSIONS OFFICE 820 N. MICHIGAN AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60611 (PHONE: 312-670-3012) 
Name _____________________________________ 
Address---------------------------------------­
Present School _____________________, 
Natural Science Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Sociology Theatre Theology 
IJ.j
"d'ilj 
"<§ 
1.15 1.05 .89 .59 1.44 .57 .57 .40 .33 1.09 .50 
1.98 .48 .35 1.09 1.45 1.45 .27 .16 1.21 1.09 .55 .43 .59 1.19 .89 1.39 1.19 
.28 .25 .99 .83 .75 2.99 2.99 .89 .61 .53 .79 .25 .31 .65 .79 .29 1.57 .26 .25 .30 .29 .87 .18 1.99 
,.., 
C::l) 
..f.§ 
~~ 
"O:: 
1.29 1.25 1.29 .89 1.39 .59 .49 .39 .33 1.29 .54 .33 1.19 .53 
1.49 2.85 1.30 .29 .25 1.25 .99 .55 .43 .69 1.19 .99 1.38 1.29 .33 .25 .33 .29 .89 .59 .51 
3.19 2.99 1.18 .69 .53 .75 .35 .29 .69 .49 .20 1.69 .43 .25 .28 .33 1.18 .21 2.29 
~f.' 
~0
:::.§
t"IO
,.c;:e
f.;.llJ 
I 
1.12 
.99 .99 1.54 .53 .49 .30 .59 1.02 .49 .20 1.05 .48 
1.45 2.89 1.79 .26 .25 1.39 1.09 .56 .49 1.01 1.19 .79 1.15 .88 .29 .23 .25 
1.08 .53 .53 3.25 2.97 1.38 .59 .55 .73 .37 25 .79 .49 .27 1.53 .29 .25 .33 .29 .98 .17 2.29 
10 
-
;:;:§u 
-l~-.."" 
1.08 
.89 .39 1.39 .59 
.49 .49 1.09 .59 .37 .99 .35 
1.43 2.89 1.99 .27 .26 1.13 .99 .59 .39 .77 1.09 
1.29 
.25 .20 .25 
.79 .53 .48 3.09 2.79 .89 .59 .49 .71 .28 .28 .67 
.27 
1.59 
.41 
.25 
.35 
.29 
.81 
.19 
1.69 
§ 
~ 
..,tf 
f~
c:;,. 
1.05 
.99 .69 1.35 .55 .49 .45 .45 1.03 .54 
1.49 .47 
1.05 2.98 1.99 
.23 1.09 
.53 .39 .72 1.19 
1.42 ­
.39 
.32 
.89 .57 .55 3.19 
1.49 .59 .53 .59 .30 
.65 
.25 
.35 .29 .31 
.99 .18 2.19 


,.., 
s~ l:"~
:;l 
1.13 1.11 .89 .69 1.41 .52 .52 .50 .39 .66 .33 
1.09 .35 
1.05 2.98 1.55 
.26 1.11 
.53 
.69 .99 
1.39 .1.19 .33 
.25 
.89 .55 .49 3.25 
.99 .63 .55 
.29 .29 .65 .59 .23 
.29 .25 .33 .29 .97 
l:" 
:;u 
.ld-~-.."" 
1.09 1.05 .78 .49 1.49 .59 .41 .69 .39 1.02 .45 
1.05 .35 
.69 
1.49 
.25 1.09 
.51 
.55 .92 .79 1.45 .69 .32 .22 .25 
1.09 .73 
3.25 1.49 
.55 
.44 
.33 
.59 
.28 
.31 
.35 

~u 
~/...
""" 
1.18 1.15 .99 .79 1.47 .48 .47 .50 .45 1.02 .38 
1.05 .33 
1.05 
1.45 
.22 1.19 
.51 
.77 1.19 1.19 1.29 1.29 .33 .22 .25 
1.09 .69 
3.25 
1.19 
.48 .44 .27 
.63 
.21 
.41 
.43 

7
I Heil's Hoops, Hogs, Ducks, Th•""·•· .. ,;'"·'"' S~;;ObSf!V•• 
Club-31 II in final four 
by Bill Delaney Bonifer's Club 31 II defeated Staff Reporter Kelly's ~s 29-27, in a game Exciting play was the· name of which each team had the op­the game Wednesday in the portunity to put the game out of quarterfinals of the Bookstore reach four times. Billy Paterno's Baslc_P.~ball Tournament as the 17 rebounds and the last minute 
31 Uub, Holy Cross Hogs, Heil-s heroics by Steve Sylvester were Hoops and the Ducks the highlights of the best game of advanced to the semifinals, to be the Tournament. played tonight at 5:30 beind the The North Quad Quarterfinal Bookstore. In four very close featured the emergence of the games, the widest margin of Cinderella team of the Tour­victory was seven points, in­nament, Heil's Hoops, in the dicate that the entire group's semifinals. Kevin Ford and Greg play was evenly balanced, with Garcia paced the Hoops to a 21-19 any one of these teams being the victory over Admiral Dick and champion. the Seamen•. 
In the South Quad Quarterfinal Ford's eight action, Bedford Bruno, John points paced the Cavanaugh team Cornelius and Hawk Stevens led in a game where tight defense was the Holy Cross Hogs to a 21-18 the key. The second game between victory over the Stupendous the Ducks and Canucksll resulted Streakers. A well-balanced attack in a victory by the Ducks, 21-14. by the Hogs, with each player Roosevelt Thomas was the key scoring around five points proved player for the Ducks, who ran up the decisive margin for the vic­an early lead and never lost it. tory. In the other game, Dave As the result of the games played Kelly's nine points and 11 rebounds Wednesday, the Ducks will play werejust not enough, as Mike Heils Hoops tonight at 5:30, and 



Ruggers dovvn OU 
by Bob Kissel 
Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame rugby squad, sometimes referred to as the Irish "mudders", would like to an-· nounce the official start of spring in South Bend. Last Saturday against Ohio University, the Irish ruggers were given the experience of a dry playing field for the first1 time this spring season. 
The Bobcats of Ohio University came to town rated as one of the strongest rugby outfits in the Midwest, having won the Mid­American conference on the strength of undefeated spring and fall seasons. The Irish, just off a. clutchwin at John Carroll, were eager to end the Bobcat's streak. 
The Notre Dame "A" squad defeated the Bobcat "A" unit 13-8. Ed O'Connell opened up the Irish scoring by converting a penalty kick, good for three points. The first ND try was scored by Bobo Olson when he picked up the ball from a loose serum and downed the ball for the four points. Tom Masenga scored the remaining Irish try and Ed O'Connell con­verted on one kick for two points. 
"Ohio University was a good team," noted rugger Larry Casey. "They hit hard, hustled, and were very quick in the backfield which set up their long-gainers." 
"Our serum forwards played consistently, controlling the set serums," continued team secretary Casey. "We took our opportunities when they came up, like quick lineouts and loose serums." 
The Notre Dame "B" squad also came out on top, soundly trouncing the Ohio "B"s 28-0. Dave Ward scored two tries for the Irish on loose serums, Sean McDonald 
HIGH ADVENTURE STARTS AT 2500 FEET 

Your first jump course $50.00 takes only 3 hours. 
World's largest and sales.t.
Our 16th year. 
Over 230,000 jumps. 23,000 First jumps. Free brochure. 
PARACHUTES INC., CRAWFORDSVILLE CENTER 

~  RR No. 7, Municipal Airport  
~  Crawfordsville, lndlua 47933  
CJ  Phone: 317-362-8253  

scored a try on an excellent break­away, Tom Hessertalso scored two tries, and Rich Arensberg scored the remaining Irish four-pointer. Chris Patterson had a superb kicking day, hitting four of five conversions kicks for eight points. 
The Irish rugby teams face 
another stiff test this Sunny Saturday, as they go against the Fighting Illini of Illinois in a game which . matches two proven 
Midwest rugby powers. 
"Illinois placed well in the fall 

tournament in New Orleans," 
explained Casey. "They have many 
quick and experienced grad 
students who know the game of 
rugby well. This game will be 
another good test of our team, 
going against Big Ten champ 
Illinois." 
The game will be played behind 
Stepan Center, and all are invited. 
We've opened a whole new world of parts. 
Auto parts for imports 

Announcing a new service in town to help import car owners. Now, you can get replacement parts for imports from us. We're headquarters for World parts ... a compre­hensive line of import car parts. covering the 16 most popular imports ... or, 92% of the imports on America's highways. 
Worldparts are quality-made parts including engine parts, fuel and oil system parts, electrical parts, clutch and transmission parts, heating and cooling parts, steer­ing and suspension parts, brake and wheel parts, and exhaust systems. 
Let World parts open a whole new world of import car parts and service for you. 

Auto Parts tor Imports · Division ot Maremont Corporation 
VOLKSWAGEN • TOYOTA • DATSUN • :.JPE, • VOLVC • MEfiCEDES • MG ·FIAT· TRIUMPH 
RENAULT • CAPRI • PORSCHE • SAAB • cAGUAR • BM'II • AUDI • PINTO • [ENGINE PARTS) 
We're headquarters lor Worldparts-call us for a service expert near you. 
IRas'eland Autamative Supply Inc 
320 Dixieway N. (at the light) South Bend, Indiana 
272-6700 
·' •• i \ • 
; I .<t ' I t.''''-'t. ... , ... 

immediately following that game, the Holy Cross Hogs will play Club 31 II at 6:15. There will definitely be bleachers and a public address system for the games, so everyone who comes will be able to enjoy the semifinals of the 1974 Bookstore Basketball Tournament. 
Sailors second 
This past weekend, while most were on vacation, the sailors were sailing. Notre Dame and nine other schools travelled to Lakeland Community College outside of Cleveland to participate in the Laser Regatta held at Mentor Harbor Yacht Club. Buzz Reynolds sailed "A" division and Dave Constants sailed "B" division. Of the 20 races sailed, the Notre Dame team had 9 firsts, Reynolds acquiring 7 of them and ·-the "A" Division individual award. 
Notre Dame finished tied for first 
with Ohio State in points, each 
school with 45, but since O.S.U. had 
one more victory Notre Dame was 
designated second. The final 
standings were: O.S.U.-45, N.D.­
45, Purdue-65, Ohio Wesleyan-67, 
Kenyon, Toledo, Lakeland, Iowa, 
Kent State, and Detroit. 

This coming weekend, the 
sailors travel to an intersectional 
regatta at Ohio State. 

The weekend of April 6-7 did not 
have to go too far to find the sailors 
racing. It was ladies day at St. 
Joe's Lake and lady sailors from 
nine schools participated in the 
Women's Regatta on the lake. 

Notre Dame placed third, behind 
Purdue and Michigan State, an 
easy victor. The team was led by 
impressive sailing by Mary Anne 
Zdinak, Kathy Hughes and Camille 
Doan. Also sailing for Notre Dame 
were Nancy Cueroni, Carole 
Froling, Jan Robert, Judy Robert, 
Sharon Dillion and Fidele Galey. 

Women's golf 

Any women interested in for­ming a ladies golf team ·should meet this evening at 6 o'clock on 
the putting green next to the Rock. 
. • • 
Aluminum Canoes by 
. 0~mokercraft




$ 179 
9-5 Mon-Fri 9-1 Sat 
100 Center 
CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES Largest selection 
of 
FRYE BOOTS 
in the area 

~~Sat 10 to 9-Sun 
~­


CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 
CHEAPEST WAY TO TRAVEL! Scooter Britain ­Europe $33 a week. L ambretta­seats tv.o. Also Worldwide Overland Camping a nd lowest air fares. Trail Blazers TOLL FREE 800-223-5586. 
Experienced typist will do: term papers, manuscripts, ect. Call 233-5332. 
TYPING-Term papers, thesis, dissertations. . Professionally done with electric typewriter, carbon ribbon. Reasonable Call 233-6638. 
LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: Saturday Rec. 9 -11:30a.m.; brief meeting to follow. 
G.S.U. Meeting, Friday April 
19. 12 Noon. 127 N.S. H. 
JUNIORS-TUESDAY APRIL 23 IS JUNIOR NIGHT AT THE SENIOR BAR. ALL N.D. AND 
S.M.C. JUNIORS INVITED. BE THERE! 
THE DOMINICANS educators, preachers , pastors, missionaries, counselors. A community of men of the Gospel to the spir itual, in­tellectual and social needs of theworldtoday. Writeto: Rev. 
Joseph  Payne  O.P .,  5  Hill  
House  Avnue,  New  Haven,  
Conn. 06!il5.  

FOR SALE 
Two Beactl Boy Bicke ts. $3.50 a piece. Call Dan 8949 . 
Two S5.!il tickets for Beach Boys Concert. Good seats on the floor section B. ca II 6995. 
1 Beach Boys Bleacher seat. Call 8559. 
Two Beach Boy Tick ets Sec. 6. Call 234-7036. 
FINALLY!! K erovac Biography In papert·· ack. Good reading. Now at Pandora's Books. 
Sanyo 3300 KA t; 'd receiver at 20 Watts per Ct .linn el R.M.S. JVC demodulatr 4 speakers. Excellent cone Jn 5 months old. List $845. C<1nn be had for $575. Call Ed 1506. 
Fender Bandmaster amplifier Heed. Pre-C. B.S. $12 5. or best offer. Call 233-1876. 
Pioneer SX--626 rec elver. 11 months old, In exce !lent con­dition and stll I under warrantee. $200. Jim 1487. 
Yamaha Folk Glutar (FG-130) and VInyl case. S98.50 Ravlnder 8829. 
Branc:t new Marker bl ndlnos for sale Phone Judy 497 0. 
'67 camero Convertlb le. 122 E. Mavarre St. South Bend. 233. 2712. 
' • t : "\. 1 J • ~ ., 
.. • . f ' ~ • \ ••• c 
RIDERS WAN TED 

Riders needed: to Chicago Friday, April 19. Leaving after 11 :30a.m. Call 
Need ride to Flint M ich. April 19. Call 5428. 
Ride needed from Kent, Ohio to Notre Dame Friday, April 19. Call Bob at 12-48. 
WANTED 

HELP WANTED! Overseas Jobs -Australia, E urope, S. America, Attica. Students all professions and occupations $700 to $3000 man thly. Ex­penses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free information. TRANS WORLD RESEARCH CO. Dept. F3 P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
Person to work :ll + hours. Alternate publications; distribution. Low $. Good fell a workers. Call 232-8 500 after 5p.m. 
HOUSE PARENTS: Married couple, prefereabl y without children to live in Girls Group Home. Room and· b oard plus monthly salary. $-40 0 upword depending on experience, Jummer job with po sibility of continuation. Husb and may work or study oursid e Home Time off is provided. call Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233-9!191. 
House mates from June to August. Call Christy 232-7415. 
Students want to rent next years house for summer. 5 bedrooms, close to campus. Call 5703, -4-410, or 13 12. 
Need used plano w I II pay $$ Call Jim 1171. 
FOR RENT 

5 bedroom house for rent near compus. Excellent oondltlon. 2!13-1032. 
House f<r rent: 4 bedroom newly fU"nlshed wa II to wall carpeting close to campus. Available for summer and fall ocupency. Graduate students only. Call AI Brasseur 289-2463 before 5p.m. 
Notre Dame Apt. to r rent for '7J. school year. Call Ed. 3366. 
LOST 

Lost: Blue Parka, wl nter coat, behind Bookstore, Sunday April 7. Gall Rick 33 08. 
PERSONALS 

Bizarre bur InterestIng Senior offer!ng opportun lty for amlable,companlona ble and of friendly girl to e nloy his peerless company at the Beach Boy's Concert. For telephone interview call 8297. 
IS THERE NO END....Tropical storm sighted . again 1Will hit Friday sometime a fter 9. Weather Service advises strong preparation. 


the observer Thursday, April 18, 1974 
Potent ·o· highlights scrimmage 
·.:::.: ;. ::: 

AI Hunter follows guard Gerry Dinardo around right end for substantial yardage in yesterday•~ scrimmage won by the first team 21. o. 
The Playhouse 
525 N. Hill Live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat. Happy Hour Mon-Fri 5-7 p.m. Drinks are 2 for 1 
Tonight I 
Three Groups 
Continuous Music 


GRADUATING-­WHAT THEN? 
PEACE CORPS--VISTA 
have openings for 
August availability. 
Seniors contact representatives i111 library lobby April 18th & 19th ,. 
NOW RENTING c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:M + SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM U' APARTMENTS 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

Offensive fireworks provided by the first unit, and stingy defense on the part of the first team "D" highlighted Wednesday afernoon's scrimmage session, Notre Dame's second of the spring football season. 
Tom Clements and Frank 4.llocco directed the first team Blues to 21 points on the afternoon all against the second unit defensive squad. The number ones 
were never forced to give up the football during the one hour and five minute workout although·Eric Pemck lost a fumble and Randy Payne picked off an Allocco pass on the White one inch line. 
"We tmproved tremendously as the scrimmage went on," offered head coach Ara Parseghian. "We started off sluggishly but as we got more and more contact we
... 
<started to move as well. As the afternoon went on we got better blocking, better execution and better gang tacklung by the defense." 
"I would have expected to see a lot more errors since we've been off for a while, but the errors,were at a minimum as far as turnovers and missed assignments were concerned, and the penalties were held to a minimum also. Still we need a lot of work." 
This aspect of the team's per­formance was particularly en-




Irish nine come up short: drop a pair to Wisconsin 
seventh on a long four-bagger for the final 6-3 margin. 
by John Higgins In the nightcap, the pitchers amazingly kept the 
. . batsmen at bay for the first three innings, although 
The pleasant sprmg weather brought out the best m the Irish loaded the bases in the first with no outs and t~e.~itters.yeste:day at Car~er Field as the Irish and failed to get on the scoreboard. Huge Irish pitcher vtstbng Wtsconsm sprayed htts a~l o~er the turf at the Kevin Fanning ran into trouble in the fourth, though, expense of the shellshocked pttch~ng staffs. Un-as Gustavson singled, Ploetz drew a walk, and Randy fortunately for Notre Dame~hoouth1t the Badgers 20-Schawel grounded up ·the middle to load thebases. 17 and played almost. error-free defense, the Dave Olle brought in one run with a poke through the scoreboard showed the Irtsh on the wrong end of the infield and two more scored when second baseman twinbill scores, 6-3, and 7-6. Tom Miller committed a throwing error on the tail 
In the first game, Wisconsin came out swinging end of a double play ball. against Irish hurler Mitch Stoltz, who relied almost Gustavson continued tofeaston Irish pitching in the exclusively on his blazing fastball, and they hit the fifth with his fourth hit after two were out. Fanning sophomore pitcher hard in the ea!lY going. Pesky walked DH Ploetz for the second straight time, and leadoff man Lee Bauman opened with a ground single then Larson delivered a solid shot up the middle to to left, easily swiped second base, and quickly widen the gap to 4-o. Notre Dame finally solved brought home the game's first score on Designated Badger pitcher John Beckman in their half of the Hitter Steve Ploetz's sharp single to center. fifth, and once again it was Jim Smith supplying the . . . firepower. With Hansen on base with two outs, Smith 
Followmg two qmck outs m the second frame, rifled a fast ball well over the left field barrier for his Stoltz walked ninth-place ~itter Tom Popovics w~o third roundtripper of the season. Ron Goodman also stole second.~a~e handily. Bauman.re~ed With showed his halfback speed in beating out a second a second "cheap smgle and then combm~ With All-consecutive infield hit and that finished Beckman as Bi& 10 outfielder Ton;t Shipley on a perfect hit-and-run he yielded to Dan Do~ski who retired the side after 
whtch scored Popovics. ~a~man hustled home soon after on Steve Bennett's Infield chop. 
Stoltz began to settle down in the third and threw only 4 pitches in the inning, but one turned int? a gopher ball which catcher Daryl Fuchs parked JUSt inches over the left field fence to run the margin to 3­
0. In the bottom half, the Irish finally got untracked against pitcher Bob Jeffers, who went all the way for the win. Ron Goodman's grounder was booted by shortstop Rick Larso, and on the next play, second baseman Popvics hesitated in getting rid of Tom Miller's bouncer and both runners were safe. Nussbaum , who had two hits for the Irish in the opener, advanced his mates with a sacrifice bunt and Captain Tom Hansen brought one run home with a ground out. 
The Irish exploded in their fourth for four straight hits, the big blast being shortstop Jim Smith's triple with Dh Mike O'Neill, who had singled, coming home. 
Pat Coleman, the leading Irish hitter with a .314 average, then delivered a run-producing single to close the spread to one. Wisconsin's Duane Gustavson killed any further chances of an Irish couraging since the first unit of­fense worked on a wide open at­tack. 
"We're finally getting some good weather,'added Ara, "and we're getting a chance to work on our passing game." 
It was the passing game which accounted for the first score of the afternoon. Clements, who, on the day, was 3 of 4 for 70 yards, drove the first unit 55 yards in five plays by virtue of the air route. Starting on the Blue 45 the junior quar­terback hit split end Pete Dem­merle for 23 yeards, and three plays later hit tight end Robin Weber for 27 and a touchdown. 
Jack Stephan added the extra point. 
The second six-pointer of the day came as a result of some fancy ball-handling by Allocco and some even fancier running by freshman Al Hunter. Moving from his own 20, Allocco hit Demmerle for a 2, and after fullback Wayne Bullock picked up 12 more in three carries, slid off tackle himself for seven more. 
Two more dives by Bullock and a sweep by AI Samuel got the number ones to the White 40 where Hunter took an inside handoff on the reverse and scampered all the way for the touch down. 
"AI Hunter is really playing well," noted Parseghian. "He knows where the holes are and he's 
Coleman's single. 
Southpaw Paul Morisseau relieved Fanning in the sixth, but his stay was brief as the Badgers took advantage of a walk, a fumbled bunt, a perfect sacrifice, and Shipley's triple to the fence to score twice. Bennett's double finished Morisseau and brought in Shipley with the winning marker. Fresh­man Jim Sholl was brilliant in relief, retiring five straight batters, including Gustavson on a clutch strikeout. 
The Irish staged a gallant comeback effort in the sixth on pinch hitter Gary Meyer's double, a triple by Nussbaum, Hansen's looping single, and Bob Stratta's single which was misplayed into extra bases in the outfield. Ron Goodman chased Stratta home with his third straight hit, but the Irish could get no closer after that. A golden opportunity was snuffed out when Ken Shuster opened the seventh with his second hit of the game but was called out on a close play trying to stretch it to a double. 
The Irish, who stranded ten runners in the second game and banged out twelve hits, now drop to 8-14 on the year. The next action is Friday against Nor­hitting them. He's got a good sense of the offense and he's coming along real fine." 
The first unit defense allowed the second team "0" a net total of two yards on their ensuing possession, and after a Tom Lopienski punt, Clements was again at the helm. 
From the White 46 Clements hit Weber for 20, Hunter got 12 and the one-two punch of Bullock and Samuel moved the ball down to the two. Hunter again moved into the spotlight taking the pitch from Clements and gliding in for his second six points of the ~.fternoon. Junior Pat McLaughlin added the point this time and that closed out the day's scoring. 
The number one defense allowed 
drives of 26, six, and two yards by 
the second unit "0" with Luther 
Bradley, picking off a Fred 
Trosko pas~ early in the workout. 
The rest of the time was devoted 
to scrimmage between the third 
and fourth team offense and the 
third and fourth unit defense. 
Again there were no real serious injuries. Art Best is still nursing a sore shoulder suffered during last weekend's scrimmage, and guard Cal Balliet had to leave early.
after sustaining a leg injury. 

The Irish will continue workouts the remainder of the week with another scrimmage scheduled for Saturday. 
s v 
I E 
w 
+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 

+ 
REFRIGERATOR 

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT 

+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rent?! information or visit crestwood 
comeback, however, as he scored in the fifth after a thwestern at Evanston for & double-header and the management com,:any 3012 east edison road, south free ticket to first and a steal to second and in the Irish return home Saturday to play Valparaiso. be d · 







