----------~--~~~ -----------­
OD The Inside 
SMC Assembly Meet ...page 2 
Committee on Priorities Report ...page 3 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 64 Thursday, January 24, 1974 

72 days not needed for credit 
Accreditation Association statement to be presented to Academic Council 
by Tom Drape News Editor 

A statement denying the need for a required num~er of class days per semester fro_m _the Exe~ut~ve Director of North Central Accreditation ~ssociat~on will be presented at the Academic Council t;tle~tmg today at 3 p.m. by Academic Comnusswner Christopher Nedeau in fin~l. effor~s ?Y Notre Dame students to reverse the Adnnmstratwn s pre-Labor day calendar for 74-75. 
Dr. Joseph Semrow, executive dire~tor of the NCAA, stated yesterday, "The:e is no particular nu~1ber of days in a semester reqmred by North Central. Notre Dame is an accredited member of North Centr~l. 
Student Government Commissioner Ned_e~u pOI_nte,d to the direct contradiction with the adnnmstrabon s stated number one imperative for the calendar-that \he semester have 72 class days. . 
As a result Nedeau will propose at the Council 
meeting this 'afternoon, through m?ticn, that "the 
Administrators prepare the academic year calendar 
commencing with the academic year 1974-75 so that the 
Fall semester registration begin no earlier than the 
day after Labor Day." 
Five Imperatives 

Nedeau referred to five imperatives stated by the Administration at the Nov. 7 Academic Council meeting in adopting the pre-Labor Day calendar. They included: 
--that each semester have 72 class days 
--the need for a mid-semester break 
-the need for a fairly extended break so that students would not "cut" class days for extensions 
-allowance for an identical St. Mary's calendar 
the moving further into August of the mobile home show held at ND 
Based on a survey in which 90 per cent of the students opppsed the pre-Labor Day calendar, a petition w~s accepted by the Executive Committee of the Acad~m~~ Council and passed on with a "no recommendation endorsement. Besides containing Nedau's signature, three administrators and six faculty members signed the petition. 
Accreditation not endangered 
Questions by Nedeau as to whether two or three days 
would endanger Notre Dame's accreditation by his 
association, the executive director responded "not at 
all, in no way could it conceivably endanger your ac­
creditation." 
In his statement, Dr. Semrow noted that he could not 
see what difference two or three more days would 
make in the education of a college student. 
Nedeau added, "If there is no hassle from North 
Central, then one or two days would not make that 
much difference." 
Students Serious 

In rebutting the administration's imperatives, Nedeau hastened to note the seriousness of the issue by the students. 
Academic Commissioner, Chris Nedeau meets today with the Academic Council to propose a pre-labor day registration for the new academic calendar. 
Staff Photo by Maria Gallagher 
"As the Calendar Survey taken in December in­
dicated, the students were more interested in a post­
Labor day start even with the elimination of an Oc­
tober break (74 per cent) than a pre-Labor Day 
beginning," said Nedeau. Admitting that a mid-semester break is needed, he felt that a sufficient break could be modeled on this year's break. . 
Nedeau stated, "We will propose this year's calendar minus one day at the October break as a simple alternative." 
The movement of the mobile home show back into August would not affect the calendar in any change. Added Nedeau, "except for the fact that when the stuctents come back to campus they will not greeted by the piles of rubbish usually left by the show." 
Dr. Hickey--Reluctant 

In a conversation with the St. Mary's Vice-President of Academic affairs, Dr. William Hickey, Nedeau revealed Hickey's agreement and reluctance in changing the calendar to a pre-Labor start. 
Hickey related "The most important principle we adhere to is cooperation with Notre Dame which mandates common calendars." He pointed out that if Notre Dame's schedule had remained the same, St. Mary's would have remained so too. 
Tess Lehman, SMC Academic Commissioner, voiced similar sentiments last night. 
"The feeling that we have gathered is that very, very few are in favor of starting before Labor Day." said Lehman. "Personally, I think it is for the sake of co­education and g"oing along with Notre Dame." 
71-72 over again 

Nedeau pointed to the. similar calendar battle in the Spring and Fall of 1972. 

"In 1972, we had the same battle which points to the 
consistency the students have had in their objections," 
noted Nedeau. The administration's view that the 
student is uninterested in the calendar is "unfounded 
as evidence by their consistency then and now," he 
contended. 
Arguing further that the university was not com­
pletely honoring the student protest, Nedeau s~id, _"If 
they had believed us then, we wouldn't be considermg 
it now. 
"How many times will it take?" he asked. 
Nedeau criticized Fr. Burtchaell's wish, stated at 
Dillion Hall last month, of trying the calendar to see if 
the students liked it, 
"I maintain that you don't have to try something to 
like it-· although I never worked the grave-yard shift, I 
know I don't like it," stated Nedeau. 
Executive committee--"no recommendation" 
Passing on the petition presented, the executive committee set the meeting's agenda with recom­mendation of "no recommendation." According to Nedeau, this is somewhat encouraging to the students since there are three possibilities, which are positive, negative, and no recommendation, that could have been attached. 
Nedeau described the executive committee as "reluctant" at first to study the issue at all. He noted, however, to the committee, the time that might be involved would be well worth it. 
The arrangement of calendar is that of time which affects everyone," said Nedeau. 
He applauded both the administration and student government on their attitude of good faith in bargaining and pointed out that it was not a waste of time but "valuable exercise in democracy." 

Police make drug raid at IU, arrest sellers 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 

Federal, state, local and campus police raided the Indiana University at Bloomington early Tuesday morning arresting at least 39 persons for sale of drugs. Federal and state warrants have been issued for at least 40 more individuals sought by police. 
Simultaneous raids were conducted around Bloomington in Oden, Bedford, Mitchell and Martinsville between11 a.m. and 4 a.m. early Tuesday. Approximately 80 federal, state, local, and campus of­ficers were involved in the raid which was coordinated by George Halden, deputy regional director of the U.S. Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs. 
According to I.U. Assistant Dean of Students Herbert Smith, approximately 90 per cent of those arrested were students at 
I.U. About thirty-five federal warrants were issued and the twenty-three people so far arrested have been sent to Marion County Jail in Indianapolis. 
Some 45 state warrants have been issued and 16 persons arrested and sent to Monroe Jail in Bloomington. Those not yet apprehended have been declared fugitives. 
Those arrested were charged with conspiracy to sell controlled substances, sale of controlled substances, and sale of dangerous drugs. Bail was set at figures ranging from $2000 to $25,000 with $5000 being the most common. 
A statement issued by the Indiana State Police delared: "Sizable quantities of cocaine, hallucigens, such as LSD and PCP, and several pounds of marijuana were captured in the raid." In addition to those arrested on drug warrants twelve to 14 people were arrested on common nuisance charges during the raid. 
Preparations for the raid began last April with state and local police in­surpassing the record set in February of vestigations. The federal narcotics of­1972 when 40 people were arrested. ficers conducted undercover operations in According to a spokesman for the state 
October purchasing $21,000 worth of police no further raids on this scale are cocaine, marijuana, and other drugs. planned for the near future. Drugs confiscated in the raid will be used Halden, the federal officer, has also as further evidence. This was the biggest conducted a raid at Southern Illinois. drug crack-down ever in Monroe County, Federal officials were unavailable lor 
comment. 


Proposed calendar 
••• see page 7 

the observer Thursday, January 24, 1974 
warld briefs 

Washington <UPn-The Senate Watergate committee, in its first party line vote, decided Wednesday to stage two weeks of hearings begin­ning next Tuesday on the contributions made to President Nixon campaign by Howard Hughes and by the dairy industry cooperatives. The groups four Democrats voted in favor of resuming the hearing& and the three Republicans voted against. The committee also voted unanimously to make another request for a meeting with President Nixon in the White House. 
Washington (UPI)-Rep. Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen, R-N. J., quoted President Nixon Wednesday as having told a group of GOP congressmen that he is "gonna fight like hell" against impeachment. The lawmaker was on of the 18 Republicans who met with Nixon Tuesday. He quoted th~ President as having said: "There is a time to be timid. There is a time to be conciliatory. There is a time to fly and there is a time to fight, and I'm go.ing to fight like hell." 
Washington<UPI)-The Federal Trade Commission urged Congress Wednesday to reinforce the printed warning on cigarettes and add a warning to little cigars. The group also recommended the launching of a research program to develop a "safe" cigarette, and suggested the government begin an advertising drive on radio and television and in print to discourage smoking, especially an,ong the young, so as to publicize the possibility of smoking being the cause of cancer, heart disease and other ailments. 
an campus taday 

12:10 p. m. seminar "prothrombin activation" by dr. kenneth mann, mayo clinic, conference room radiation research, free 
4 p. m. seminar, "picosecond pulse radiolysis of h2o" by dr. max matheson, argonne national laboratory,.conference room radiation research, free 
5:30p.m. track meet, vs. northwestern univ., ace, free 7p.m. lecture,"love in the 12th century literature through chretien de troyes" by michael marcy stapleton lounge, free 7:30p.m. movie, "blood of the candor" engineering aud., free 
7:30 p. m. lecture, introduction to charismatic renewal, butler bldg., 
free 8p.m. basketball vs. st. francis college, ace, 
8:30 p. m. meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, holy cross hall, free 
SMC Student Assembly passes proposals 
by Peggy Frericks Staff Reporter St. Mary's Student Assembly· Tuesday night passed proposals 
concerning new election rules, academic accreditation for student government, student government car, and a contribution for the Day Care Center. A proposal for a donation of $5,000 from student government to help renovate the Coffee Shop was tabled. 
Confusion during recent student elections at St. Mary's necessitated a proposal for a clearer and mQre organized election procedure. Under the new proposal, which passed unanimously, write-in candidates can no longer paricipate in elec­tions after the prima~::ies. Ab­stentions will no longer count toward determining the majority, but will be considered the same as not voting. 
The Student Board of Gover­nance proposed that the designated members of the Student Board of Governance and Student Assembly receive academic credit hours per semester for their respective positions. Such credit would be counted towards electives only. Students would be graded under the Pass-Fail system in a program similiar to the American Scene lecture series now in effect. The credit may be granted in con­junction with the departments of Education, Humanistic Studies, Political Science, and Sociology. 

These suggestions of ac­creditation were made to give acknowledgement to students who devote much of their time and energy to aid the community in various capacities and to generate a greater interest in serving the college community during a students years at St. Mary's. 
"The positions in student government are accompanied by the fact that each of the people involved are at the institution primarily for an education," remarked Barb McKiernan, student body president and Board of Governance Chairman. "Student government is a full time job and accreditation would only make it more responsible and facilitate accomplishments by alleviating certain pressures." 
This proposal was passed unanimously and will now be considered by th Department of Academic Affairs and the departments of Education, Humanistic Studies, Political Science and Sociology. 
Student government also passed a proposal enabling them to lease a car for the benefit of the student body. The car is a Ford LTD station wagon and will be leased as soon as posssible. 
Sister Marguerite requested a 


Jackson alleges oil coznpanies cut back on military supplies 
Washington <UPI) -Sen. Henry 

M. Jackson, D-Wash., said Wed­nesday he had evidence that acting on Arab orders, some oil com­panies reduced supplies to the U.S. military during President Nixon's worldwide military alert during the Middle East war in October. 
This alleged military oil cut­back-preceded the general Arab embargo of oil products for the United States, Jackson said. 
If the charge is true, he said, the companies involved "hurt the nation's security at a critical time." He asked U.S. oil executives attending a hearing of his Senate Permanent In­vestigations Subcommittee to look into the matter and report back to him. 
Jackson said he had "reliable documentation" that expanded on a Business Week magazine article on the subject. The article said Saudi Arabia had ordered officials of Aramco -the Arab oil con­sortium that includes affiliates of American companies -to shut off 
U.S. military supplies of products derived from Saudi oil. 
Business Week said the order went out to Aramco affiliates, including Exxon, in November, but Jackson said his documentation showed it happened in October ­during the President's Middle East war alert. 
"I have it on very good authority, not Business Week but on a very reliable authority, that there is something to this," Jackson told oil executives at the hearing Wednesday. 
He said the evidence he had seen suggests the companies reduced military-earmarked oil "that was in the pipeline" and not yet subject to the Arab embargo. 
"The allegations are in general that their conduct corporatewise was harmful to the nation's security at a critical time." 
Don't Forget! 



PLEASE 

All Mardi Gras raffle tickets MUST be returned. NOW. 
donation to maintain the Day Care Dame community. Students can Center located in the Clubhouse at~ain internships in sociology and 
next lo Holy Cross Hall. The Day chtld care by working at the Center is used chiefly for the center. The assembly voted to children of faculty members and contribute $1,000 to the Day Care 
students in the St. M!lr 's Notre Center. 

KEGS KEGS KEGS KEGS 
*all popular brands *all accessories *wholesale price *no need to call 

ahead *plan now for UCLA parties Sat. night 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S8 per semester (Sl.C per year> from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

GIVE MONEY OR UNSOLD TICKETS TO YOUR SECTION LEADER. 



Carry-out

**TODAY** 
I 
Committee probes housingneeds 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 

(Ed. note In the December issue of "Notre Dame Magazine", the !ist of recommendations for change established by the Com­mittee for University Priorities was made public at the request of Father Hesburgh. This was done so that any members of the Notre Dame community who wished could make known their feelings concerning the recommendations to the University president before the spring meeting of the Trustees. 
This is the first in a series by The Observer examining in depth each area considered by the Committee on University Priorities.) 
"The residentiality of Notre Dame has made its mark on all who have lived here." This, ac­cording to the Committee on University Priorities, is the most important aspect of Notre Dame after its academic mission and its Catholic character. "Never­theless," states the report, "Notre Dame's residential character is deficient." 
Overcrowding 

The first reeommendation by the Committee is to eliminate over­crowding in the halls. The Com­mittee feels that common space in the halls is inadequate and that each hall is less comfortable when housing more students than they were intended to. 
In compliance with this first recommendation, Fr. John Mulcahy, director of campus housing, has announced that overcrowding will not be allowed next year. Instead, a computer random sample of all male up­perclassmen will determine who may live on campus next year. The sample will be broken down within each dorm by class making it a dormitory lottery, similar to those used last year by many halls. 
Congeniality ­

The Committee also recom­mended that life be made more congenial·within the dorms. 
Some reetors agreed on one singular aspect which would make life more congenial in the dorm. Fr. Tom Chambers of Morrissey Hall called this aspect the "human element." Fr. Chambers believed a positive attitude must be fostered in an attempt to develop mutual confidence. 
Fr. James Riehle of Pangborn Hall thought that a spirit of awareness was necessary. Awareness of the other two hun­dred or so people with whom a student was living. Fr. Riehle believed that to develop interest and friendliness toward the other people in the dorm would make life more congenial. 
Sister Jean Lenz, reetor of 
Farley, saw need for developing 
stronger leadership in the hall. 
Sister Jean felt that more strength 
in hall government would help 
draw the women together and 
make life more congenial. She 
mentioned that equipping the 
Farley kitchen and making more 
use of their basement space would 
help make Farley more like home. 
Rise of the Rector 

The Committee stated that ways should be explored to enhance the intelleetual role of the reetor. They suggested either formal or informal educational programs within the halls taught. 
by the reetors and staff as one way of facilitating the reetor's in­telleetual image. 
Sr. Lenz felt a program of that sort would be of great value to the reetor. According to Lenz, this would force the reetor to defend his values and would serve as a checker so that the reetor would retain a real image rather than one in.. class and another in the dorm. 
"If the word 'intellectual" means egghead." said Fr. Riehle, "then I'm not interested. If the reetor must be an intellectual figure, he can express this image by ex­pressing interest in the student's academic life and by keeping aware of their changing classroom experience." 
Riehle noted that teaching a section of Collegiate Seminar within the dorm could serve as a vehicle for communication bet­ween reetor_ and student. He also felt, however, that if a reetor is already a teacher, his intellectual image will be carried by into the hall by students he has had in class. 
Fr. Mulcahy, as rector of Flanner, favored the educational program within the dorm. Mulcahy felt it would be good for 
both reetor and student to meet on another level besides that of "housekeeping." 
Part of staying abreast of the intellectual tone within each dorm, according to Fr. Chambers, is an ongoing series of idea exchanges between rectors. This would keep each reetor aware of the overall academic experience that students are undergoing within the overall university. This exchange, said Chambers, could bring about better ways to enliven the academic tone within each dorm. 
Off Campus Needs 

The Committee called for development of programs to meet the special needs of off-campus students so they can share in Notre Dame's non-curricular life to whatever extent they wished. 
Fr. James Shilts, direetor of the off-campus living office, stated that the greatest thing the off­campus student needs is contact with his neighbor and his surroundings. According to Shilts, students just moving off-campus know little about their neigh­borhoods of the people who live around them. 
There are, said Shilts, faculty members who live near off­campus students who would be The Committee on University Priorities submitted suggestions for the solutions to problems of residentiality at Notre Dame. Especially stressed were measures to eliminate overcrowding, making dorm life more congenial, and increasing the rector's role in hall aHairs. 

happy to be of any assistance. Shilts suggested a sort of off-..--------·-------------------. 

campus hall fellows program and I 
neighborhood activities like block parties to help the students establish, what he termed "this much needed contact." 
Grad Student Housing 

The Committee felt that residence facilities for married and unmarried advanced students should be provided proportionate to demand. 
Fr. James Flanigan, vice­president of student affairs, stated at the last SLC meeting that married and graduate students need housing even more badly, but there just isn't enough money to go around. 
"Even if someone were to give us money," said Flanigan, "I doubt if we would build a new dorm since we have no way of knowing that in a few years students would move off-campus again and leave it empty." According to Flanigan, priority has been given to building :he university's endowment. 
The committee also asked for levelopment of a religious and recreational center at University Village but information about plans for such a structure was not available. 

Tickets oo sale now at Box Office. All seats ~.00 (advarx:e),$ll.OO (at door). Mail orders accepted. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
211 N. Michigan Avenue Downtown Sooth Bend, 232-tm4 
.. 


HELP!!!! 

We n1eed you to help build Mardi Gras booths! Tonight 7-12 at Stepan Center. 
"The road goes ever on and on... " Bilbo Baggins 
Athletic and

NOTRE DAME 
Convocation Center 

Ticket Prices: Tickets on sale: Bleachers • ----.---.$3.50 NOTRE DAME, A. C. C. Mon. -Sot. 9 to s Lower Arena.--.-.-. $4.50 Robertson's South Bend & Concord Moll 
Main Fllor __ • _ •. _. __ $5.50 St Joseph Bank -and branches loge • --. --. -.. ----$5.50 first Bank -Main office only
Platform •__ •____ --_$5.50 Elkhart Truth 
FOR MAIIL ORDER: state number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. J. Geils Band. Send to J. Geils Band Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 


~-~--~-~-··-· ···-·· ---------~~-----~-····----------· 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER Jerry lutkus 
Dan BarrettArt Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Executive EditorExecutive Editor 

NEWS: 283-1715 John Kloos
Lee Gentine 

EDITORIALS: 283-8661
Business Manager Advertising ManagE!r
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
----------------------~=-~ --------------------------­
Thursday, January 24, 1974 
Today -­
Today the Academic Council meets to consider, among other things, the fate of the Academic Calendar. The debate will more than likely center around one thing for starters-is the calendar for 1974-75 the issue in question for the calendar or 1975-76. Some members of the council appear prepared to discuss only the starting date for calendars after next year. In other words, they wish to reinstate the pre-Labor Day opening ban for all calendars after next year. This move would force reconsideration of the calendar next year. Ifthe council decides to discuss the issue along these parameters, they are making a terrible error. 
The council has been called to recon­sider the calendar ostensibly by the uproar of the students over the pre-Labor Day start. Consistent with their ob­jections in the spring of 1972 over the calendar, the students are again serious in their intent and design. 
If they discuss the issue along lines that are different than the reasons for the reconsideration, they will be making an unfair decision. 
In addition, the Council should bear in 
The Vote 
mind the new developments involving accreditation since m&ny objections have been raisedpreciselyin this regard. The definitive statement by the Executive Director of the north Central Ac­creditation Association that the number of class days per semester is not a specific requirement for accreditation musted be weighed heavily in the vote of each member. This should dispel the present quibble over being a day short or a day too many. As the calendar that will be presented this afternoon shows, the same amount of class days can be ob­tained with a post-Labor Day start. 
The calendar for next year is the issue and it is the issue that should be debated and reconsidered. A pre-Labor Day opening is opposed by a majority of the students. The opening date, plus the mid­semester break, are not terribly popular among the faculty either. So, if the council is going to show that it is truly responsive to its constituencies, it will discuss and amend the problem at hand-­and that is next year's pre-Labor Day opening date. 
Jerry Lutkus Tom Drape 


Impeach First 
With Congress reconvening in the second session of the 93rd Congress, action must begin immmediately towards the impeachment of President Richard Nixon. Earlier in the year, The Observer along with numerous other college publications joined together to call for ths impeachment of the President. The President should be impeached instead of opting for resignation as sources have reported him prepared to do . Hopefully, in the impeachment preoceedings the truth of the ways of the administration c:an once and for all be exposed. But most im­portant now, as Speaker Carl Albert has said, is expediency. It's time to get it done. The Congress must initiate im­peachment proceedings. 
The Editorial Board 



Dan,t Ask Me :~~­Save Energy -­

/ 
Don't Study

larry weaver 

William Simple, the nation's assistant energy czar (he calls himself a "czarette"), was on campus yesterday. He's traveling to a variety of colleges throughout the country to promote the president's new scheme for energy conservation. I was allowed a brief interview. 
"Mr. Simple," I began, "I hear you're unveiling a special plan to combat the energy crisis." 
"That's right. And our plan is simply to save the energy expended by the normal human body. Every time a person moves or thinks, you know, he's using up calories. And calories are nothing more than units of energy." 
"Where's the hitch with the energy crisis? Cars don't use calories do they?" 
"That's just it. The carrots and french fries you eat today could­over a period of thousands of years--be turned into coal, oil, or gas by Mother Nature herself. This would provide ready fuel for future generations. The energy crisis isn't just a short term thing you know." 
"So your idea is--" "To save machine horsepower by saving human calories. It's that simple." "Does that mean you'll be asking all of us to cut down on food con­sumption?" 
"Not only that. Our position is that too many people use too many calories for wasteful and unnecessary functions. Our idea is to cut down on the very expenditure of human energy itself." 
"What's all this have I'> do with the university?" 

"We're trying to persuade students to cut down on calories by cutting out unnecessary studying. Concentration takes a lot of energy, you know. Shooting the bull or playing blackjack doesn't use up nearly as many calories. And the lighting doesn't have to be as powerful either." 
"So, what's the plan?" 
"We're asking all students to voluntarily cut down to five study 

hours per week. We'll be checking libraries and study lounges for a 
while to see if the voluntary controls work. If they don't, we' ll 
probably have to substitute mandatory study cuts." 
"You don't mean-" 
"Yes. Study rationing is a very real possibilitiy." 
"Let's hope those voluntary cuts work." 
"I think they will. Today's American college student is responsible 

and mature enough to make himself buckle down and stop studying 
when he has to. And besides, we've got a great promotional campaign 
under way. Here's our slogan: 
'Do not give our prez the fits; 
As you dim the_Jights, diJOII your wits.' 
Would you like a bumper sticker with that on it?" 
"No thanks, Mr. Simple. Around here, I think people will catch on to 

your idea real quickly. You don't anticipate any problems, do you?'' 
"Well, as a matter of fact, we'll barely be able to break even at Notre 
Dame. Your administration is preventing us from handing out some of 
our best energy saving tips." 
"How's that?" 
"A while back, one of our engineers discovered that two people 

sitting close together in a dorm room could generate enough heat so 
that the thermostat could be turned down to sixty. And in a situation 
like that, of course, who needs lights?" 
"Sounds good. What happened?" 
"Your Provost said that if we gave out any information like that, 

he'd turn all the thermostats up to eighty and order a nightlight in 
every room . " 
"It figures." 


3. 



2. 



Kelly's Korner 

by Mike Kelly 
Night Editor: Bill Brink 
Asst. Night Editor: Dan Sanchez 
Layout: Ann McCarry, Mike Kolczycki, Joel 
Burian 
Copy Editor: Terry Keeney 
Typists: Barb Norcross, Barb Haugh, Tom 
Modglin 
Compugraph: Tom Wich 
Night Controller: Phil Orscheln 
Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips 
Sports: Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor 

~-~---­
~ 

Mardi Gras booths now under construction 
by Janet Denefe Staff Reporter 

Mardi Gras, Notre Dame's answer to Las Vegas, will begin Friday, February 1. Booths are already being constructed at Stepan Center and must be com­pleted by next Tuesday, January 29. 
"The Long Expected Party" will kick-off Mardi Gras festivities on Thursday night, January 31, at 9 
p.m. The theme of the party is based on J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings trilogy and guests are encouraged to dress in any ap­propriately bizarre manner. Refreshments will be served, including the kind of food that any hobbit would enjoy. Tickets are being sold every evening in the dining halls at $2 per person or $3.75 per couple. 
Friday, February 1, the J. Geils Bar.d will appear in concert. Mardi Gras will open that same day at Stepan Center, from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. Admission is 75 cents on Friday and Saturday, but it is only 50 cents the remaining days of the week. Admission is free on the last day, Sunday, February 10. Buttons may be purchased for $2 at the door which entitle the buyer to free admission the entire week. 
Steve Boy, Mardi Gras Chair­man, emphasized that besides being one of the biggest social events of the spring semester, Mardi Gras is valuable for its charitable purposes. Profits are donated to the Neighborhood Study Group, Sister Marita's Day Center, MECHA, CILA, and the ND-SMC r'luncil for the Retarded. 
"These charities are student 

oriented," said Boy. "Students 
don't seem to realize that the 
money goes right back to them." 
In 1968, Mardi Gras made $22,000 

but in 1973, the profits were only 
$4,000, although the committee 
donated $7,000. Boy feels that the 
decrease in profits is due partially 
to apathy, but primarily to 
cheating. 
If 90 per cent honesty existed at 

Mardi Gras, the increase in profits 
would be incredible as compared 
to last year," he said. 
Security measures will be much tighter this year, without being oppressive. More policemen have ·been added, both uniformed and plain-clothes, and there will be gambling experts and experienced students present to check out 
legalities. 

Students plan the work for their Mardi Gras booths at Stepan Center. The festivities begin Thur­sday, January 31. Staff Photo by Maria Gallagher· 
In hospital murder 
Key witness changes story 
by Henry Logeman 

Mineola, NY UPI -The prosecution's key witness in the murder trial of Dr. Vincent A. Montemarano contradicted her own earlier signed statement Wednesday by testifying she saw the doctor give a fatal injection to a dying cancer patient. 
The witness, Clara Miles, became visibly upset when defense attorney J. Russell Clune in­troduced a statement he said she signed last June 30 saying she had "no recollection" of witnessing the injection. 
But after a lunch break, during which she met with the prosecutor in the case, Mrs. Miles admitted the signature on the statement was hers but said it wasn't true and insisted she didn't remember signing it. 
Just 30 minutes before Clune introduced that statement, Mrs. Miles -a licensed practical nurse at Nassau County Medical Center­testified she saw Montemarano administer the deadly injection to Eugene Bauer the night of Dec. 7, 1972 when Bauer, 59, a terminal cancer patient, had only hours to live. 
Nassau County District Attorney William Cahn has charged that Montemarano, 39, the former chief resident surgeon at the center, committed a "murder of con­venience" so he would not have to return later that night to pronounce Bauer's death. 
Boy said that in the past students have brought their own cards in, have taken advantage of the ineptness of a dealer, or have simply stolen money. Offenders will be prosecuted severely through the University. 
Students are urged to return the unsold tickets or money for the raffle of the 1974 Chevrolet. Those who have sold on ebook may keep two of the ten dollars, are given a Mardi Gras button entitling them to free admission the whole week. 
Anyone interested in being a dealer should contact his or her hall representative. There will be a dealing school on Monday night at 7:30 in the Student Union Office, 4th floor LaFortune. Participants will be alerted to possible means of cheating. 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS FOR WEEK OF JANUARY 28 
InterviNs are for seniora and graduate studenta. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Intll!rviev times must be selected and !tigned for in person. Hours are 8:00 
a.m. ttJ 5:00 p.m., Monday thru Friday. The Placement Manual 
gives additional information regarding interviews and pro­cedures. 
JAN. 28 Blue Crosa and Blue Shield of Indiana. B,H in AL, BA, Hath., Comp.Sci, Clairol, Inc. B in AL and BA. Corning Glass Works. B,H in BA. First National Bank of Chicago. B in AL. First Wisconsin National Bank of Milwaukee. B in AL and BA. 
MBA. 
J. I. CASE Co. Bin Acct. MBA (prefer Mkt. or Tech. under• 
grad. background.) Deere & Co. B in H.E., Hkt., Acct., HRt. 
Ebasco Services. 
B in C.E., E.E., H.E., Met. B,M in M.E.N.O., Ch.E., Environ.Sci. Financial Advisory Clinic. B in AL and BA. 
I·T-F. Imperial Corp. B,M in M.E. and E.E. St. Regis Paper Co. B in Acct., M.F.., M.E.l.O., Ch,F.. 
JAN. 30 Allis-Chalmers. B,M in Engr. -Principally E.E. and M.E. American Air Filter Co. Inc. B in H. E., E.E., Ch.E., C.E. Christian Brothers. All degrees and disciplines. 
B. F. Goodrich Co. 
B in E.E. B,M in Ch.E., M.E., Cht!m. B,M in BA. Pfizer Inc. B,Min'Ch."E. 
Xerox Corp. MBA. B in E.E. and M.E. 
JAN. 31 
American Can Co. B in Acct. and M.F.. MBA with f'tn. conccmtralhm. Borg-Warner Corp. 
B,M in M.E., E.E., Met. Globe Engineering Co. B in Arch., C.E., E.E., M.E., En~r.Sci. 
Kaufmann's. 
~BA. 
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. All de~rees and disciplln~s. Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York. 
B in AL and BA. Nat tonal Security Agency. B,M,D in E.E,, Engr.Phys., Math., Comp.Sci, B,H in M.E. and Near Eastern, Asian, Slavic lan~. 
Swift & Company. B in E.E., H. E., C.E., Ch.E., Hkt., Acct., AL. Universal Oil Products Co. B,M in Ch.E. 
FEIJ. 1 
Citizens & Southern National Bank, 
Bin Fin. MBA with Acct.(15 hrs.) and Fin. backgrounds. Ollyton 1s. 
B.M1ni.t.. 
Howmet Corporation/Misco Division. B in A.E., M.E., Met., and BA. Oscar Mayer & Comeany. 
B.M in all disciplines. Northern Trust Company. All BBA. 
~e~~s.Ac~~~buck & Co./Data Processing Prog. 
Sears, Roebuck & Co./Tax Acct. Pros. Bin Acct. White Motor Companv. Bin H.E., M.E.I.O., Met •• C.E., E.E., Acct. 
Employer information. Alternatives. Teaching. Swm~er. 
Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service, Room 222, Administration Bldg. 
1-16-74 


-~-----~­
6 

the observer Thursday, Jan11arv124, 1974 
3.3 million barrels of oil per day 
Federal Energy Office affirms shortage 
"Our refining capacity is not nuclear explosion, it is much unemployment level might not be always blame shortages on 'them,'by Clyde Iverson 
enough to meet the needs of the cleaner than petroleum and with inaccurate. But he is optimistic whether it is wheat, gas or meat,Staff Reporter • 
country and it takes 4 or 5 years to the development of the breader that through prudent and careful some remote 'them' is always build a refinery," explained Luce. reactor nuclear power is virtually action the severity of the crisis responsible," said Jerger. JergerAccording to the American 
Petroleum Institute, and govern· In his opinion the economic con­inexhaustable," commented Luce. need not be catostrophic. He does believes that this shortage is real. trols initiated by the Nixon Ad­"~e have maybe thirty years," "The demand is greater than the 
ment sources, the country is af­not feel that gas rationing is 
ministration have also contributed predicted Joseph C. Hogan, dean of necessary or advisable, given past supply, I don't know how to solveflicted with an oil shortage. The to the country's energy problems. the college of engineering, "The government performance. this but I don't think it helps to
Federal Energy Office has 

"Phase I was instituted when year 2000 will either see the "If the people cooperate and the obscure the problem by blaming it predicted the shortage will amount 
gasoline was at a high and home development of a major new oil industry increases its refinery on 'them."' he noted.
to 3.3 million barrels per day ... or 

heating oil at a low," he explained. source of energy or the demise of capacity we probably won't have "We must face the fact that the2. 7 million barrels per day ... or 1.5 
"This had the effect of en­the industrial society." ,·ationing," he said. energy crisis is not a hoax, it is realmillion barrels per day. 
couraging the production of Dean Hogan who was recently "But in the long run we cannot and will cause us some problems,"Despite the conflicting figures on 
gasoline and discouraging the appointed energy czar of South commented ·Jerger. He believes
the severity of the crisis, Notre depend upon oil explained Hogan. 
production of heating oil. The Bend by Mayor Jerry Miller, "We will need new sources of that a depression may resultDame professors seem certain that result is that we have a shortage believes that it is foolish to continue energy. I feel that these sources because of the inability to controlthe crisis is real. 
"We are facing a serious of heating oil reserves." to waste our oil reserves when coal will come from nuclear and solar at least two factors--inflation and Luce feels that if it can be ad­is available. unemployment; two factors that
problem of credibility," admitted energy development. We must 
ministrated properly, gas "We should emphasize the long realize we have been a very he sees as inevitable consequences John W. Luce, associate professor 
of aeronautics and mechanical rationing should begin. But he is term advantage of using coal as wasteful nation and that society of an energy shortage. "Inflation quick to point out the past record of opposed to petroleum. Our coal will have to find ways of being and unemployment are already
engineering. "Increasingly people 

reserves will last longer than our 
are hesitant to believe the ad­federal bungling and his own useful and productive with less beginning to emerge as con­
reservations concerning the oil reserves and our oil reserves sequences of the crisis," he con­
energy," he concluded.
r.l inistration." 

dubious ability of the federal are needed in areas that that coal Another member of the College tended.
He surmised that although there 

government or any government to is not suitable, such as the of Engineering, Associate Dean For the future Dr. Jerger forsees does seem to be grounds for effectively control such a complex petrochemical industry, the in­EdwardJerger',warned that people new sources of energy becomingsuspicion, this stem>: not from any 
dustry that is concerned with the available on a commercial level. 
dishonesty on the part of the situation. may have to change life styles to 
Dr. Luce foresees nuclear production of synthetics," he cope with the oil shortage. "In the immediate future we willgovernment but rather from the complexity of the situation. "The 
energy and coal as our main observed. "The energy crisis will be with be burning more coal, building sources of energy in the future. Hogan believes that society will us for awhile. We will have to more nuclear reactors, makingenergy crisis is not, in my opinion, a 
"Nuclear power is safe, clean and suffer as the result of t!ie oil come accustomed to mass transit, more extensive use of fuel cells,hoax," commented Luce. "Itis the 
shortage and that the AFL-CIO
renewable. No one has ever died small four-cylinder automobiles, and we might even see someresult of increasing demand, and 
as the result of a commercial prediction of an 8 per cent and low room temperatures windmills," he predicted. "But Iof poor planning." 
before it is all over," predicted feel our goal should be the com­
Jerger. mercial development of solar
On congressional floor 
"We have an oil shortage energy within the next twenty because there is a shortage of oil, years which would mean that there not because of any contrivance on would be less strip mining, fewer

Bradeznas congratulates Irish 
the part of industry or govern­oil spills, not as much thermal ment," he continued. "The so­pollution, and for all practicle called wind-fall profits are purposes an unlimited supply of 
Congressman Walter Flowers, who John Wooden, whom I remember misleading. Gas stations are energy."
MR. SPEAKER, we have had a represents the Tuscaloosa district

lot of bad news during the year just well from his days as head closing all across the country, According to Dr. Jerger no 
here in the House. basketball coach at my own high matter how much energy there is it 
ended, but in South Bend, Indiana, stocks of major oil companies 
in the District I have the honor to I war to further to extend my school, South Bend CEmtral. In­have decreased in value. If there should always be conserved. represent, we have had, as 1973 warmest congratulations to deed, I once played a game, albeit is any contrivance on the part of "Saving enough saves be con­closed and as 1974 began, some America's greatest football coach, a JV game, under his direction. the oil industry I don't see how it's served. "Saving energy saves our good news. Ara Parseghian, to his coaching The score, in one of the most possible." enviroment , and that in itself is a 
staff and to the entire Notre Dame stunning upsets in college
For, Mr. Speaker, life is, in at 

least one important respect, back football team. basketball history, was 71-70, and I to normal. The University of Notre But, Mr. Speaker, not only is here note that the last time that the Dame football team, after its Notre Dame number one in the UCLA basketball team had lost a 
magnificent 24-23 victory over the nation in football. game was also to Notre Dame. 
Last Saturday, January 19, I So, to Digger Phelps, his
University of Alabama in the 

Sugar Bowl in New Orleans on New was privileged to be among those coaching staff and the entire Notre Year's Eve, is the National present to watch the University of Dame basketball team, I also Champion again. Notre Dame basketball team, extend my warmest 
Mr. Speaker, I take this time under the outstanding coaching of congratulations. first to extend my condolences to 
Digger Phelps, break the three Mr. Speaker, as we today begin my colleague and friend the year, 88-game winning streak of the second session of the 93rd gentleman from Alabama, the University of California at Los Congress, we all recognize that the Angeles, led by the great coach, nation has troubles, two in par­ticular, energy and Richard Nixon. But, Mr. Speaker, not everything 
is wrong with America today.
CILA selecting students 
God's in his Heaven, something's right with the world. Notre Dame is Number One

for summer projects 
again. 

Mississippi, Spanish Harlem and
The Council for the International 
North Dakota.
Lay Apostolate <CILA) is now 

The tasks have included con­
selecting students to work on 

struction, teaching, running
summer projects in the United 

recreational and other community 
States and Latin America. 

development programs.
Since its initial volunteer team 

The objective of the project
worked six weeks in a small 

experience is not solely to provide
Peruvian village in 1962, CILA has 

service, but also to develop an
involved ND and St. Mary's 

understanding of problems in
students in projects in Mexico, 
different cultures.
Haiti, Panama, Chile, St. Lucia, 
"We seem to have a tendency to worthy goal," said Jerger. 



Thursday is 

LADIES DAY 
at 
Nickie's Wine Coolers 40~ Tequila Sunrise so~ Free pool 2:30-8:30 



PETER O'TOOLE ALASTAIR SIM 

ARTHUR LOWE

"Peter O'Toole 
-a performance of .









Uhe WitWjammer 
an

such intensity that it
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRI~uNATING MEN 
will haunt memory.

Stop in and 
O"Toole begins 
THE 


where other
see why the 

RULING CLASS 

actors stop. 
Windiammer 
He is funny, was featured 
disturlbing, Thursday and Friday
finally
in a national magazine, by the devastatingl11 
8md 10p.m. -Washington Hall 

makers of RK hair products 
-Jay Cocks, 
Time Magazine 
Admission $1.00 

All services by appt.--no waiting 
1637 Lincoln Way W. 232-6622 



7 

Finishes stint with South Bend cabinet 
Kromkowski returns to ND teaching post 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

Government Professor John Kromkowski has returned to Notre Dame after a two-year leave of absence. Kromkowski spent the leave as Directior of Human Resources and Economic Development in the South Bend City Cabinet. 
As directior of that department, Krom kowski 's duties included working with problems of human relations, housing, health, em­ployment, and redevelopment in the city. 
During his stay with the ad­ministration, Kromkowski's department provided improve­ments in equal employment for 
women, better nutrition for senior 
citizens, and additional federal 
aids to city projects. 
Aside from his administrative position, Kromkowski was active in bringing the concept of cabinet government into practice. 
The City Cabinet, created February 18, 1972, accompanied a restructuring of the executive branch of government in South Bend.The restructuring arranged executive agencies into the Departments of Law Ad­ministration and Finance, Human Resource and Economic Dev~lopment, Public Safety, Public Works, and Parks and Recreation. 
Although the cabinet for thecity government is not a cure-all, Kromkowski considers it a sub­stantial step forward. 
"Basically, the cabinet has enabled the mayor and the city council to be more aware of the individual areas," Kromkowski observed. 
"The administrators are more aware of their options and can systematically anticipate problems instead of simply responding to crises," he added. 
Kromkowski also noted that the cabinet strategy of government aids "thecontinued professionalization of govern-
He pointed to the size and ethnic
Senate Watergate cozn1nittee 
FRIDAY NIGHT! ! ! 
to investigate contributions 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE REOPENS! ! 
by Jane Denison 

Washington UPI -In its first partyline vote, the Senate Watergate committee decided Wednesday to hold two weeks of hearings on President Nixon's campaign contributions from billionaire Howard Hughes and dairy industry cooperatives. Nixon's friend, C. G. "Bebe" Rebozo, might be called to testify. 
Chairman Sam. J. Ervin Jr., D­N.C., emerged from a three-hour closed meeting to announce the committee had voted 4-3 to resume public hearings next Tuesday. 
The four Democrats on the committee voted in favor of resuming the hearings and the three Republicans voted against the first such partyline vote in the 
Shares subpoena powers 
283-6660.
Rodino thwarts squabble 
Need 2 girls for Apt. Call 8620. 
by Howard Fields 

Washington <UPI) -House Judiciary Chairman Peter W. Rodino Jr. has changed his mind and agreed to share subpoena powers with committee Republicans, removing an im­mediate threat of a partisan squabble over impeachment of President Nixon. 
The question of subpoena powers and the impasse over committee access to facts gathered by Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski were on the agenda for a meeting of the panels senior members today. 
Asked Wednesday if he would continue to resist an effort to force 
Calendar proposal 
Aug. 31, Sept. 1,2--0rientation 
Sept. 3, --Registration 
Sept. 4--Ciasses Begin 
• • • o 0 ~ "' • • • • '-• • • • o • a o 0 • a 
committee's year-long existance. 
Ervin said the committee staff would draw up a new witness list and that he hoped Rebozo would be called to testify. Rebozo has acknowledged accepting $100,000 in campaign contributions from Hughes, which he later: returned. 
Sen. Howard H. Baker Jr., R-Tenn., the committee vice chairman, told reporters outside the committee room he wanted the panel to end its work and turn over its findings to the House Judiciary Committee, now studying the possiblity of impeaching Nixon. 
"The matter compelling the attention of the American people at this time is impeachment..." Baker said. "The political fever in this country is for getting on with the business at hand ... I have 
him to share subpoena power with ranking committee Republican Rep. Edward Hutchinson, R-Mich., Rodino said, "I certainly will not. We are going to do this in a bipartisan way." 
The committee voted along party lines last October to give Ro­dino sole subpoena power and the chairman refused to let the GOP share authority to summon wit­nesses. 
Itwas decided late, however, the committee did not have such authority and that it would have to send a resolution to the full House. Republicans promised a partisan fight again, but Rodino confirmed Wednesday he would share the 
WOODY ALLEN TAKES A 
mental employees." 
This situation, according to Kromkowski, "provides vehicles through which various citizen groups can hold public officials 
accountable operations."  for the city's  
Regarding  his  philosophy  of  

government, Kromkowski quotes theoretician Todd LaPorte: "The purpose of public organization is the reduction of economic, social, and psychic suffering and the enhancement of life opportunities for those inside and outside the organization." 
"South Bend is a very manageable unit," Kromkowski noted, expressing his optimism for the city's future. 
grave doubts what we can do in 
a­

these six days of hearings." 
E CD
Responding to Baker's com­

a Leanne Jacques Petesnake :I ment, Ervin said, "I think it essential for it the evidence to be 
C") Joe Klockenkemper Triad CD a
0 .. ..
presented." 
::r
Asked if he felt the Democrats 

-
were using the hearings for par-
a

tisan advantage, Baker replied, 
. 

00. I *BANANA SPLITS* -n "We've avoided polarization." 
"I think these issues have been certainly explored in the media and so I couldn't see any real point in going forward with it," said 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
committee member Edward Gurney, R-Fla. 
Ervin also announced that the committee had voted unanimously to ask again for a meeting with 'llixon at the White House. If he ioes not agree by this weekend, !:rvin said, the committee may submit written questions to him. 
WANTED 

Need make to share furniShed house. $87.50 per incl. util. 232­2450 ask for Tim . 
WINDJAMER LOoking for lead guitarist with equipment, pref. sing, call Jim 1409 for appt. 
Reasonably reserved faculty or rrad professions! student to occupy second at Park Jef­ferson. First bedroom oc­cupied by newfaculyt member. 
power. 
Although Rodino said he has made arrangements to guard the confidentiality of any investigative material turned over by the special prosecutor, a spokesman for Jaworski said committee counsel John M. Doar has received no authority to make any promises to Jaworski. 
"Once the House committee makes a decision regarding procedure, Mr. Doer will be in a position to petition the court for release of the grand jury evidence in question," the spokesman said. Doar and Jaworski have been meeting informally to discuss the im for the month. 

Need 2 GA tix for Marquette. Call Lee 287-0837. 
Need ride to Purdue Fri. or Sat. Call Mark 3623. 
Need rooommate for NO Ap­t.call Tom at 282-1169. 
Experienced typist would like typing to do at home. 291-3351. 
MOTORCYCLE AC­CESSORIES: Responsible person with mechanical background to run motorcycle accessories dept. Great chance to learn retail mer­chandising +display. Hours to suit class schedule. Apply to manager, Mr. H. Honda 50715 Us 31 N. 
Need 4 Marquette tlx. Call Mike 8532 or Jim 8500. 
Need des per ate! y short order
~--------------~ 
STARTS FRIDAY 

cook for 12-8 Shift also need 
waitressez. Call 233-1811 or 234­
6402 J + J Grill. 
Need 2 GA Marquette ylx. Call Denise 6715. 
LOST AND FOUND

NOSTALGIC LOOK 
Accutron watch Initials JPJ 12­
AT THE 

ti-72. Reward. Call 1579. 
FUTURE. 

Lost Kodak pocket camera. 
Please return fllrr1. Reward. 
Call Neil 1101. 
composition of the city as favorable to the overall progress of the city. 
"The trend of moving away from manufacturing and toward service industries will aid the economic growth of the city in the long run." Kromkowski observed. 
Kromkowski stated he is happy to be back at Notre Dame and is pleased to see the the students he taught as freshman have learned much in two years. 
"I appreciate that the university sees the importance of allowing leaves to political science people," Kromkowski stated. 
"They bring a humanitarian attitude to city politics and raise questions which aren't traditionally raised," he observed. 
FOR SALE 
Marantz 2215 $175. Call 1480, 
Fender 12 string electric guitar 
+ case. Also reel-to-reel tape recorder. Call 7991. 
1/a 1960 Olds. Cheap dependable transportation. sso. Carlton 287-0560 or 287-2328. 
For sale: Stereo turntalbe, Thorns-model TO 160. Only 3 weeks old. Full warranty In­cluded. $175. Call 232-1535 after 8:30pm. 
Kenwood stereo reclever 
KR;3200. 3 mos. old. 232-6437 after 3. 
Beau! ieu Super 8 mabie camera, BAIA viewer and Eumlg splicer $600 256-0701 or 259·8676. ' 
Experienced typist will do _term papers. manuscripts etc. Call 2333-5332. 
NOTICES 
CARPENTERS, ARTISTS, CLEVER PEOPLE OF ALL KINDS!! Help build Middle Earth In Stepan Center. Mardi Gras construction every night 7-12(1-12 Sat., Sun.) Jan. 22-29. Come on over I 
. Flanner Food Sales: Pizzas, 
mushroom, pepperoni , 
sausage, sheese Pop; 12 oz 
cans 215 cents, 16 oz. cans 20 
cents. Hours 10:15-11:45. 
Phone 8047. 
.GOODTIX FOR THE FRIDAY FEB. 8 PERFORMANCE OF GREASE AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, OPEN DAILY 1-5 pm. 
London show tour: March 9-17 197<4. $451 from SB; Includes air, accomadatlons, tlx. $100 deposit due Feb. 1. Call Sister Jean Kiene 28<4-4516 or Clark Eide 234-2098. 
The Greyhound from N D to Chicago will depart the Circle Fridays at 4:45. Call Tom Boyer 272-1807for information. 
FOR RENT 
1974 school year; Beautiful house-nice neighborhood-S BR. 234-5523. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Kapu: 
God made Notre Dame Number 1. May the eggs of 10000 centipedes infrst your cat food, and may the Sons of 10000 cockroaches carry you oH to be .drowned in a cup of lukewarm 
Postum. 

J 
Oct 17-20-,-Midsemester break after last class 
Oct. 21--Ciasses begin 
:: :: :, 

Nov. 27--Thanksgiving Break at 
12:00 noon 
~ody .. 
Dec. 2--Ciasses Resume 
cAllettand ~aton .. 
Dec. 14--Last Class Day 
''Sle{!Pec" . 
lPGI~

Dec. 16-20--Exam Days 
Umtad Arhsts 

Total: 701J2 Class Days 
hone 288-8488 for 'times & directio 
Lost 2 ladles rings in Flanners Ladles rest room. Call Terry 8131. 
Lost combination black stopwatch-wristwatch at UCLA game. Reward. 1410. 
Lost antique gold bracelt with cameo stone, before Xmas vacation. $10 reward. Judy 6804. 
Found keys In Brown leather case. with design. Call Dan 8222. 
Susan J.H. It's on the way. Much love. Jebs. 


----~-~---·--~------~­
the observer Thursday, Jahuary 24, 1974
8 

Irish icers down Falcons; Eddie B. gets 200th point 
by John Fineran and after Ric Schafer'spowerplay He slid the puck to Ray who came 
slapper from the point stayed in in alone on Sarachman. Larry 
Notre Dame's forechecking was the crease, Eddie had an easy shot Israelson came storming down the 
awesome last night as the Irish and goal. left wing to give the Irish a 2-on-o 
icers used it to their advantage to For the first nine minutes of the break. Mter Sarachman took 
beleaguer two Bowling Green second period, the Irish held onto DeLorenzi's fake, Ray gave the 
goalies and the rest of the Falcon their slim 3-2 lead. However, at disc to Larry, and Israelson had 
squad in a 7-4 victory before 3,680 8:52, Bumbacco was tripped from virtually the entire net to shoot 
fans in the Athletic and Con­behind as he took Kronholm 's into. 
vocation Center. Still, the evening clearing pass into the Falcon zone Thr~e times during the evening, 
belonged to senior left wing Eddie on a breakaway. the Insh gave Bowling Green an 
Bumbacco. It took Notre Dame just 36 36 advantage via penalties. 
Bum bacco, an All-America seconds to score with the ad­Howev~r, on each occasion, the 
choice last season with 90 points, vantage. Ray DeLorenzi sped up dynamic duo of Mike Tardani and 
has found it difficult to score this the right wing, and his 50-foot ·Pat Novitzki created more 
season. Coming into the game, slapshot whizzed by Liut for a 4-2 pressure on the Falcon goaltenders 
Bumbacco had scored but 29 Irish advantage at 9:28. than Bow~ing Green created on 
points. However, his assist on Ian Fifteen seconds later, Bowling Kronholm. 
Williams' opening goal of the Green's Doug Ross, on a centering Kronholm had an easy evening, 
evening at 1:26 gave the Sault Ste. pass, took advantage of an Irish saving 21 shots during the evening 
Marie, Ont. senior his200thcareer mistake in front of Kronholm. while Liut and Sarachman com­
point. Before the game was over, Ross' wristshot slid along the ice bined to stop double that number. 
Bumbacco had added a goal and past Mark's right side. The Irish and Falcons will take a 
two more·assists. Williams' backhander at 10:37 on day off before meeting again 
Williams, who scored twice, also a powerplay and Steve Curry's Friday evening at Bowling Green. 
had a pair of assists to move within give-and-go_score at 14:01 closed Faceoff is at 6:30 South Bend time, 
Irish winger Eddie Bumbacco reached a scoring milestone last night
four points of the 200-point plateau. out the second period scoring, and the gan1e can be heard over 
getting his 200th career point with one goa I and three assists. 
Bowling Green came back to giving the Irish a 6-3 lead. WNDU 0490) live. take a 2-1 lead at 11:48 of the first Bowling Green coach Ron Mason 
period on goals by Bruce decided to bench Liut in favor of AI 
Woodhouse and Tom Esper. Poor Sarachman for the third period. AI 
coverage by thE: Irish played an Sarachman also looked unsteady 
ND cagershost St. Francis 
important role in both Falcon in the net, but the Irish took ad­
by Sam Vannucci

scores. vantage only once during the While most Irish fans have been gruelling Irish schedule over the Just 31 seconds later, however, stanza. talking of little else than the much next week and a half is offering
The Notre Dame basketball 
Notre Dame tied the score on some After Mike Bartley's shot slipped anticipated ND-UCLA rematch in plenty of "everyone's" for
team, having successfully met its 
fine digging by freshman Alex through Kronholm 's pads for a Los Angeles this Saturday night, Digger's cagers. Notre Dame has 
first challenge as the natilon's top
Pirus. His tenacity paid off when fluke goal at 1:59, it was another 12 Coach Digger Phelps has been already played three times in the
ranked basketball squad Tuesday 
Mark Olive tipped his centering minutes before the last goal of the playing it game by game, "When last six days. Following tonight's 
night in Lawrence, Kansas, return 
pass into the Falcon net. game was scored. And it was a you're number one," Phelps ob· St. Francis game the Irish must
to the friendly confines of the AGC 
At 18:09, Bumbacco took ad­beauty! serves, "everyone's out to get trek to L.A. for UCLA then journey 
tonight in search of their twelfth 
vantage of Falcon goalie Mike Pat Conroy saw linemate you." home Sunday morning to begin
consecutive win against the Red Liut's inability to control the puck, DeLorenzi moving toward the slot. Flash from St. Francis College. One thing is for certain, the preparation for next Tuesday's 
battle with sixth-ranked 
Marquette. That match-up will 
then be followed by four more 
games within the next seven days. 

Notre Dame's most immediate by John Moushigian worry, though, is the Red Flash 
Gary Novak--one more goal to go 
during the season. If I was not an from St. Francis. St. Francis, anWho's Number One? "Goose", athlete I'd probably be wasting institution of some 1600 studentsUPI and AP polls say it is Notre time instead of studying." located in Loretto, Pa., has during Dame. "Goose", of course, is It seems unlikely "Goose"would the last ten years gained nationalGary Novak, the senior co-captain neglect his studies because he is recognition for its hardwoodof the Notre Dame basketball intent on attending medical school. achievements.
team, and he can rightly claim that He has applied to Illinois, Nor­
number one spot after the thrilling Although last year's Red Flash
thwestern, Loyola, Columbia,.
come-from-behind victory the dropped to a dismal 5-21 record,
Cornell, St. Louis, and
Irish pulled off against UCLA last youthful and first year coach Pete
Georgetown. "My main goal now
Saturday. Lonergan is optimistic about his
is to go to medical school next 1973-74 cagers and rightfully
"We didn't execute that well on year, and I haven't really thought so­
offense last Saturday, and we will eleven lettermen including all five 
of anything else besides that." 
have to do much better next starters return. Says Lonergan, 
meeting concerning that phase of Asked if he had set any goals "We are fortunate to have players 
the game," says Novak. "We'll upon entering Notre Dame, Novak that have the right mental attitude, 
also have to work more on the replied, "Yes, there were three toughness, and desire to achieve. 
press and keep our concentration things I wanted to do at Notre It is because of this fact," he ex­
and poise in order to hold our Dame. First, to excell plains, "that I am very op­
mistakes down to a minimum." academically, second, to play in timistic." 
Poise is something the Bruins th~ir basketball program, and "The key signs of a good team is seemed to lack the last three third, to be on a national cham­how it reacts to adversity and how minutes of the game. Asked if he pionship team." In his sophomore much it improves game to game." agreed with Coach Wooden's year alone, he seems to have By Lonergan's own standards staten1ent that UCLA did not lose satisfied his first two objectives by then, the Red Flash can be labelled their poise, "Goose" replied, "No, being leading scorer, MVP, and on a good team. Mter a very rough I think our press really rattled the Academic All-American start, Lonergan's team has them and when they missed a few second team. To reach his third seemed to put it all together and shots they got desperate and lost goal, however, the Irish basketball currently stands at 10-5. Coach their composure. Our team's team will have to play the rest of Phelps noted that a major reason greatest strength this year is the season like they played the last for the "Flash" success is "their forcing opponents out of their three minutes against UCLA. extremely balanced scoring at­game plan. We seem to be able to replacing Novak in the lineup. upon to be more of a defensive tack."
"The last three minutes of the
break up the opponents offensive "Martin was put in especially to player. I have to give a lot of credit Four St. Francis players are
UCLA game werethe best
flow and make them commit bother Tommy Curtis and run the to Coaches Phelps and McLaughlin scoring in double figures with the errors." That is exactly what the offense. We wanted to tighten our for helping me develop my basketball I've seen played at fifth starter just barely below~ the
Notre Dame since I have been
Irish forced the Bruins to do in the defense and make them take bad defensive skills." They must have 10 point mark. Leading the attack 
here. To hold a powerful offensive 
last three minutes of Saturday's shots off the press. They shot 70 taught Gary well because he was is flashy 6-7 forward . Clarence 
team of the caliber of UCLA 
game as they converted four UCLA per cent the first half, but we knew voted as the best Irish defensive Hopson 05.5 pts), but he receives turnovers into eight points. they couldn't keep that up. We player last year. scoreless for over three minutes plenty of support from guard Rick 
has to be the result of a tremen­
Asked how he could explain the realized that even though they shot Gary's academic skills, "Hawk" Hochenos (13.8), 6-6
dous tea:m effort. I feel we are
fantastic come-from-behind win, that well we were still very much however, have been self-tutored. A forward Bob Nichols (11.5), and
capable of playing that way not
Novak stated, "We have a special · in the game." dean's list student in pre-med., he guard Mike Williams (11.1).
only for three minutes but for an
drill in practice where we simulate The "Goose" did not play the reveals how he has done so well in Senior center Bill Stevens (6-7) is
entire game," the "Goose"
various game conditions. For second half but realized that the school despite a demanding averaging 9 points per game.
predicted.
example, we will play as if we're change with Martin coming in for basketball schedule that takes up a up by two with two minutes to play him was best for the team. "I just considerable amount of time. "It You can be sure that the Irish Tonight's contest will offer the or say down by eight with three want to do whatever I can to help was difficult my sophomore year will have to play near-perfect number one Irish a good op­minutes left to go. I think this is an the team," he says. He has had to because that's when the courses basketball to win at Pauley portunity to regain some of the excellent drill and that it prepares adjust his game considerably since started getting tougher and the Pavilion. The Bruins will be sharpness they exhibited in the us to face situations such as the one his sophomore year when he was travelling was wearing me down. seeking revenge for the loss that fi~st, half of the Kansas game. ND we were in in the last three the team's leading scorer. "We Eventually, I learned how to snapped their 88 game winning will start the usual combination of minutes of the UCLA game." had a lot of injuries that year and budget my time to fit ineverything streak, and dislodged them from Clay, Brokaw, Novak, Dantley, 
they depended on me to score, but that was demanded of me. and Shumate; however Ray
Digger Phelps went with a thr~ their number one ranking.
, last year I switched from center to Basketball has helped me Martin, Billy Paterno, and ~everal
guard defense in the second half forward and with scorers like academically because I have to Who's number one? Only God other players are likely to logwhich had Ray "Dice" Martin Shumate and Brokaw I was called concentrate harder on schoolwork knows for sure. plenty of playing time. 







