
-------------~--------------------~---------------------------------------, 

On The Inside 
The COUP Report ... page 3 
Wooden Apology ... page 7 
Vol. V Ill, No. 66 


Rehnquist: court 
. I
duties I awesome 
The responsibilities of a justice on the Supreme Court are awesome, U.S.Supreme Court .Justice William H. Rehnquist stated during appearances Saturday at the University of Notre Dame. 
Rehnquist, who was appointed to the court by President Nixon in 1971, said the court averages about 150 decisions a year. 
But, added Rehnquist, the court was asked last year to review between 3,500 and 4,000 cases. "Deciding which cases to hear is time consuming," he said. 
Rehnquist held an informal question and answer session Saturday in the student lounge of the Law Building. 
Rehnquist was unable to answer r.1any of the questions asked by the overflow crowd because of the possibility that the issues raised r.1ay eventually come before the Supreme Court and it would not be 
p1·oper for him to have expressed a previous opinion on such an issue. Consequently he had "no com-
UCLA bombs unlucky Irish 
...Story on page 8 

serving the notre d'lme -st. mary's community 
r.1ent"  on  such  concerns  as  the  
White  House  surveillance  ac­ 
tivities,  possibJe  future  in­ 

terpretations of the Supreme Court's abortion decision, and the relative conservatism that the Court's recent decisions has reflected. 
However he did go into detail describing how he gets along with his law clerks, how heavy the Supreme Court's workload is and how he gets along with the other Supreme Court justices 
Rehnquist also stated that the increasing workload is getting to be a problem and said that possible solutions included either reducing the amount of cases to be heard before the Court somehow, or expanding the size of the Supreme Court staff. 
The jurist was on the campus to p1·eside at the final argument of the annual Moot Court competition Saturday night at the Memorial Library Auditorium. He was joined by Circuit Judge Myron H. Bright of the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Down and out 
(of gas) 

40 killed, wounded 



Fierce lighting mars Syrian-Israeli peace 
When Douglas Tucker found himself out of gas early Friday morning and the Indiana Tollroad the only thing below him, he had little choice but 
to give it a visit.  He subsequently ended up in a  
St. Mary's field.  Story, another picture on page  
6. Staff  photo  by  Joe Raymond.  


DAMASCUS <UPI> -The Syrian-Israeli cease-fire lines in the Golan Heights erupted Sunday in fierce fighting involving artillery, tanks and rockets, a military spokesman said. 
At least 40 Israeli sgldiers were killed! or wounded and three Israeli tanks and 11 artillery batteries destroyed, according to a Syrian communique. Four Syrians, two of them civilians, were reported wounded. 
In Tel Aviv, the Israeli military command said Syrian gunners opened fire on three Israeli positions and that tank and artillery fire was returned. No Israeli casualties were reported. 
It was the second consecutive day that the Syrian front has erupted in fighting. Syria reported destroying several items of Israeli military equipment and inflicting a number of casualties Saturday. Israel said it lost one dead and three wounded in those clashes. 
The skirmishes are the first since the Egyp­tian-Israeli on the disengagement of r.1ilitary forces was signed Jan. 18. 
The Syrian spokesman reported two clashes in the early afternoon Sunday in which Israeli engineering equipment was destroyed and 10 Israelis were killed or wounded. 
The Israelis opened up with artillery, tank cannon and rockets against Syrian positions shortly after 2 p.m., according to the spokesman. 
"Our troops immediately returned the enemy's fire, hitting hard at his positions," the spokesman said. "Fierce fighting with artillery, tanks and other weapons continued until 4:30 p.m." 
In this clash, he said, 30 Israeli soldiers were killed or wounded and 11 Israeli artillery bat­teries, three tanks and various other equipment were destroyed. 
The Syrians reported two of their soldiers and two civilians wounded and one vehicle lost in the third battle. 
Unfinished Mardi Gras 
stand silhouetted 
against Stepan Center 
light panels. Festivities 
begin next week as, 

I 
1
hopefully, the booths 

~ 
)Jo::o::o:::/iitt?4MP#l~;~ re finished and the 

1
ettors bring their oney. Staff photo by i Raymond. 
J 
~ 
-~-~­

.-----------------------------------------------------------~----------------------­
J. the observer Monday, January 28, 1974 
, 
• 

warld briefs 

Burke appointed Union co-director 
by Jim Donathen Staff Reporter 

Friday, Student Union Director Pete 'Bohlander announced the appointment of Pat Burke as Student Union Co-Director. Burke, a junior government major from Rochester, New York will serve as co-director with Bohlander until 
VATICAN CITY <UPl}--Pope Paul VI conferred Roman Catholic 
sainthood Sunday on Mother Teresa Jornete Ibars, a 19th century Spanish nun who founded a religious order devoted to the poor and the needy . 
"St. Teresa Jornet is one of those figures that have left a deep personal imprint on the world," the Pope said in Spanish during the two-hour pagentry of canonization in St. Peter's Basilica. 
"The mark of her spirituality was service and self-sacrifice for others. In the work carried out by this consecrated soul we see the 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 

St. Mary's College Security chief Anthony Kovatch defended the actions of his own and Notre Dame's security forces Friday, stating that charges leveled against them were " a little out of 
line." 
Replying to a letter appearing in Friday's issue of The Observer that charged the SMC security force "falls short on too many counts," Kovatch said the writer did not relate the entire story of the incident. 
The letter's writer, a St. Mary's student who requested her name withheld, related an incident that occured Tuesday night, in which she was accosted by what she termed a pervert, along the road between the two campuses. She expressed her disappointment in the St. Mary's security department and charged that a lack of patrols in the area left it open for many such incidents. She added that the Notre Dame security appeared unavailable when an SMC officer tried to contact them. 
·Kovatch said the student failed to realize that the incident, which occured on Notre Dame property, 
TOKYO UPI -Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Sheik Ahmed Zaki 
Yam ani said Sunday that his country may cut back recent oil price 
increases in view of their impact on the world economy. 
"King Faisal is deeply worried about the oil problems and is currently studying necessary steps to carry out the price cut," Yamani told a news conference. 
In Beirut, meanwhile, Arab diplomatic sources said Sunday that 
the Arab oil producers-with Saudi Arabia taking the lead-have 
turned down an appeal by Egyptian President Anwar Sadat to lift 
the oil embargo against the United States imposed during the 
October Mideast war. 
WASHINGTON UPI -The Federal Reserve Board Sunday 
proposed legislation to extend monetary controls over $50 billion in 
assets of 8,400 non-member banks. 
Federal Reserve officials said the failure of monetary policy to 
curb inflation in 1973 was largely because of the 25 per cent of the 
nation's money supply that was not under their jurisdiction. 
The proposed legislation, which was sent to Congress with a 
letter from Federal Reserve Chairman Arthur F. Burns, also could 
extend to savings and loan associations under certain conditions. 
April l when he will become the derclassmen among Student Union Student Union Director for the 1974-directors and com missioners 75 academic year. Bohlander feels that the choice of' 
Last fall, the Student Union Burke will prove advantageous to 
decided that they ·would choose a the smooth running of Student co.-director during the spring Union activities. semester to prepare him for his Burke was one of thirteen duties as director for the following candidates who responded to the year. Because of former S.U. S.D.'s ad in the Observer. Director Jim Rybarczyk's first Bohl~nder and Student Body semester graduation and the President Dennis Etienne in­
•conspicuous · lack of un-terviewed each candidate and 
Order's foundress canonized 
beauty and inexhaustable riches of the divine plan of salvation." 
In 1873, St. Teresa Jornet established the order of the Little Sisters of the Poor and Aged. She was proposed for sainthood in 1952 and beatified in 1958. 
She was the first saint proclaimed by Pope Paul since Ocotber 1970, when he canonized 40 English and Welsh martyrs who died for their faith in the 16th century. 
"The immense work she carried out was unaccompanied by ex­ternal clamor-indeed, the action of grace always remains something 
Kovatch defends actions of campus security forces 
is not within the jurisdicton of the SMC patrol. He also said that instead of immediately notifying Notre Dame security, the student simply continued walking to St. Mary's not reporting the incident until she had reached the SMC campus. 
He added that she did mention the incident to "a nun" also walking along the road. The nun called Notre Dame security from a nearby dormatory, Kovatch said, and NDsecurityofficers responded "in minutes," as a similar in­cident had happened the night before and the force was keeping a watch on the area. 
Kovatch said this special watch on the area could also have been the reason behind the ND security's seeming unavailability. In addition, he said he discovered the intercom used between the two departments was broken. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semeeter except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. ~ry's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa pet' semester <n• pet' year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 
46556. 

an campus laday 

12 noon--meeting, american indian committee informational session, faculty dining room of south dining hall, free 
4:30 p.m.--lecture, "the structure of Biotin Enzymes," by dr. feodor lynen, max planck institute fur biochenie, munich, germany, room 123, nieuwland science hall, free 7 p.m. & 9 p.m.--foreign film senes, "the triumph of the will," sponsored by modern language department, engineering aud., free 8 p.m.--lecture, "the art and architecture of early christianity in transjordan," by dr. bastian. sponsored by the religious studies department, carroll hall, free 8:15p.m. recital, maria lagios, soprano; patrick maloney, tenor; rhea shelters, piano. lieder, melodies, arias, greek and irish folk songs. sponsored by the music dept., library audo, $1 
hidden," the Pope said. "In em­bracing a life of sacrifice, she wished to carry out the program of sanctity laid down by the Divine Master: to discover true happiness in the love and service of the poor and needy." 
A tapestry showing the new saint in prayer was draped from the main balcony of the basilica's facade. Thousands of persons streamed inside on a cold, rain­swept morning. Scores of nuns from the order she founded ap­plauded loudly when Pope Paul said "Blessed Teresa , I declare you Saint Teresa." 
The Little Sisters Congregation now has 3,100 nuns serving throughout Latin America, the United States, West Gemany, Italy and Spain. 

narrowed the competition to three 
finalists. These three were in­
terviewed by the Board of 
Directors and Burke received the 
job. 
Having worked with Fr.Schlaver 
on several activities, such as 
publicity chairman for the charity 
basketball game, Burke is not a 
complete stranger to the Student 
Union. 
"I'm a new face at the job, says 
Burke. "I'm going to work hard 
this year and we the Student Union 
are confident we'll have a good 
year." The first problem facing 
Burke will be the selection of 
commissioners and directors for 
next year. 
"We'll be looking for people with 
definite ideas; people who feel 
they'll have solutions to the 
problems we face," he said. 
The new co-{iirector also plans to 
investigate the possibility of 
keeping La Fortune open more of 
the time and to co-operate more 
with other local colleges by co­
sponsoring programs with them. 
WSND light coverage 
WSND will provide round-by­round summaries of the Ali­Frazier fight tonight as it happens. The classic rematch will start after the 10-round preliminary bout scheduled at 8:00p.m. ends. 
"A Long-Expected Party" Tolkien Costume Ball 
THURSDAY, JAN 31, 9-12 La Fortune Ballroom 
6~~\l sing,les $2.00 couples $3.75 
...tickets on sale MON, TUES, WED in the dining halls 
"Anyway, I mean to enjoy myself on Thursday" Bilbo Baggins, p. 49 

Burke: Will take over 
director's reins in April and 
serve through 1974-75. 
MED SCHOOL ADMISSION PROBLEMS? 




EuraMed 
IIY Iller HI Via 


averseas lralnlna 
For the session starting Fall, 1974, Euromed will assist qualified Amer­ican students in gaining admission to recognized overseas medical schools. 
And that's just the beginning. 
Since the language barrier constitutes the preponderate difficulty in succeed­ing at a fc•eign school. the Euromed program also includes an intensive 12 week medical and conversational language course. mandatory for all students. Five hours daily, 5 days per week (12-16 weeks) the course is given in the country where the student will attend medical school. 
In addition. Euromed provides stu­dents with a 12 week intensive cul­tural orientation program. with American students now studying medi­cine in that particular country serving as counselors. 
Senior or ~traduate students currently enrolled in an American university are eligible to participate in the Euromed program. 
For application and further information, phone toll free. 
(800) 645-1234 
or write, 

Euromed, Ltd. 
170 Old Country Road Mineola. N.Y. 11501 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporer 

This is the third in a series of articles by The Observer examining in depth each area considered by the Committee on University Priorities. 
Today's article deals with the section on Catholic character of the llniversity, a comment from Campus Ministry and the nature of religious influence on academics. 
"The University's highest and also its most distinctive priority is to understand and to adhere to its evolving Catholic character. To survive without its unique place in the minds of believers, and without its Catholic witness in the larger 
pluralistic society, would not to survive as Notre Dam{!," states the report of the Committee on University Priorities <COUP). 
"Because a university is a place of study and scholarship, our Catholic commitment is primarily intellectual," the report con­tinues. In response to this statement, Fr. William Toohey, director of Campus Ministry, said that although he endorses the Committee statement, it contained "a crucial deficiency" because it implies that the committment to the Catholic character is purely intellectual. 
"Rather," he said, "our com­r.Jitment should be intellectual and pastoral." 
According to Toohey, the statement should read, "Because the University is a place of scholarship and of personal spiritual growth, where young people can experience God's presence in all its various aspects of love, forgiveness, mercy, and 
caring , and where they can grow as believers, the Catholic character should be significantly intellectual and pastoral." 
The report listed three major aspects of this commitment: "an exploration of the consequences of faith in Jesus Christ, a high value placed upon the age-long tradition of Catholic learning and open teaching and moral witness of the Christian heritage." 
In the first area of Exploration the committee noted that theology should influence other areas of study. "The central questions in r.1any disciplines, as they pertain to human action , are made whole by their consideration in the light of theological values," stated the report. 
"And this concern for the values of man before God occurs in every learning opportunity afforded by Notre Dame : in residence hall life as in the classroom or library," it continued. 
In order that theology could permeate all other areas of Notre Dame life, the committee reconm1ended that the University continue to sustain an increasingly competent department of theology." 
Theology Department Chair­man, Fr. David Burrell, said that theology was not to get preference over other academic areas, but he felt that ttheology should be in­tegrated into the rest of the program. 
In the future, Burrell added, courses studying Catholic tradition from a literary perspective will be offered for students with a minimum of such training in their education. Sometimes, he said, a student can learn more about Catholic tradition through literature than in a traditional theology course. 
A second recommendation of the Committee involves its "continuing commitment to freedom of inquiry and thought." It contends that the Catholic University should be open to "all truth and to every human insight and that belief should expand one's scope , rather than restrict it." 
Urging that the religious of the Congration of Holy Cross continue to preserve "the Catholic interests of the University" through their guidance and support, the com­r.Jittee recommended "that ap­pointments to the faculty and staff continue to be of Holy Cross, whose contribution to the University is a special guarantee of its Catholic character." 
In response to this statement , Dr. Hal Moore, a non-Catholic and assistant professor of General Program, said that he believed that it is important that "people have chosen to keep the basic Catholic character especially in terms of values, but we have to be careful of preserving this character in a responsible way." In particular, he noted that a person could not be hired or fired from the faculty solely on the basis of whether or not he was a Catholic. 
According to an informed source who wished to remam monymous, this Committee statement serves to retain religious on the faculty and is not seen as a threat to the laity. Currently, he said, a new faculty member is hired through the department chairman and his committee, which, in agreement with a 90 per-cent faculty, is a1so predominantly composed of laity. 
The committee also recom­r.Jended that "the University have a faculty and a student affairs staff among whom committed Catholics 
predominate." According to Dr. Philip Faccenda, Vice-president 
of student affairs, only Catholics have ever been on the student affairs staff. The committee statement, he said is an "af­firmation on our part that we don't want a deadening of Catholicism to occur here." 
The third area of the Catholic character investigated by the committee involves com-r.JUnication. "Values which emerge from the life and lessons of Jesus Christ should have room here to intensify the value of literature, of the arts, of the professional traditions studied by Notre Dame students," explained the report. 
According to Moore, students receive much of these values f~·om the faculty, particularly the ubera I arts faculty. "This is one area of life that has a direct in­fluence on students: Literature Philosophy, and Theology. "Fron; these courses, students get values which are sued to shape lives." 
"Our Catholic character should, as we say, have its first impress upon our intellectual work. But it should permeate in a way we could hardly describe as secondary -the comr.1unity of learners. The life in our residence halls, and the in­terchanges between faculty, students, administrators , and alumni must not give the lie to the faith which is false if not verified by love," concludes the committee investigation. 

Guard. students in fracas 
by Mike Kulczycki possible injuries to Fuhr, the 
Staff Reporter unidentified guard replied, "He 
was hurt, but not too seriously."

Campus sources have confirmed The guard added that Fuhr a Thursday evening altercation at received treatment, but was not Notre Dame's east security gate hospitalized.between security guard Sergeant The guard refused to comment Boyd Fuhr and two Notre Dame further for "the protection of students. students involved." 
Director of Security Arthur Dean of Students John Macheca 
Pears, contacted Friday, considered the incident "a con­January 25, said the matter "is fidential matter" when contacted completely under investigation." Friday afternoon. When pressedPears acknowledged that the in­for further details, Macheca said, cident "occurred last night" ''It is too premature to comment." <January 24), but would not Macheca acknowledged the release further information until possibility of further information the investigation was completed, on Monday. "around the first of this week." One of the students involved was 
A patrolling security guard told contacted, but refused to com­The Observer, Friday, "It was an ment. The second student could ugly scene, not in terms of damage not be reached. Sgt. Fuhr was or anything, but jL.., t that it had to contacted but also declined to givehappen." Questioned about any information. 

Tickets on sale now at Box Office. All seats $9.00 (advance), $ll.OO (at door). Mail orders accepted. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
211 N. Michigan Avenue 
Downtown South Bend, Z32-0054 
Monday, January 28, 1974 the observer 
3 

Meeting for 
DEALERS and hall chairmen. 
7:30 Monday Lafortune SU Office 4th floor 

EVERYONE MUST COME! 
Learn to deal and not get ripped off! 

Bleachers ----------$3.50 NOTRE DAME, A. C. C. Mon. _Sat. 9 to 5 Lower Arena------•• $4.50 Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall Main Fllor ----------$5.50 St. Joseph Bank -and branches Loge ---.--------.-$5.50 First Bank -Main office only
Platform ---______ •• $5.50 Elkhart Truth 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 


.. 
.. 
the observer Monday, January 28, 1974 
P.O. 

weeks brain waves can be 
measured in a fetus. 
To those of you who insist that
Rjght f0 Life whether a fetus lives or dies is a 
decision to be made by its parents, 
and one persons moral convictions Editor: should not be forced upon another, 
One year ago the United States I would like to remind you that Supreme Court handed down a there are laws in this country that decision which may prove to be on protect the rights of individuals. the same erroneous scale as the These laws insure our right to life, "Plessy vs. Furgesson" decision of liberty, and the pursuit of hap­1896. Since last January 22, a piness. There is also an unwritten r.1illion unborn babies have died of law that says that although in­unnatw·al deaths. dividuals have the right to freedom, 
This person would like to shake one must not abuse this freedom in just a few Notre Dame students such a way as to infringe upon the away from studying, away from rights of another. Watergate, away from worrying To those of you who cling to the about material goods such as belief that a fetus in its early gasoline, the price of meat, the stages is not human, I would like to stock market, the value of the relay to you an experience I had as dollar etc. etc. etc., to the fact that a little boy, and others must surely untold millions shall perish unless share; collecting tadpoles. something is done to protect those Everyone must be aware, as I am who have no voice in whether they of the evolution of a tadpole into a live or die. frog. I must conclude, from having 
To !pose of you who say that a observed this evolution that their women must have control over her was no observeable cut off point body, I ask you, does she have where a tadpole becomes a frog. control over her body before Agreeably, their is a difference conception? between the immature tadpole and 
To those of you who equate an the mature frog. But, to set a date unwanted pregnancy with an whereupon maturation occurs, is unwanted child, I would suggest ridiculous. that you obtain a copy of the Those of you who are con-January issue of the "Liguorian". templating abortions now or in the Therein, Dr. Paul Cameron from future remember, that adoption the University of Louisville found agencies are many years behind in through a sociological and their search to fullfill requests for scientific study that a woman babies for adopting parents. bearing an unwanted pregnancy as Ask inside, is the baby so terribly judged by her in whose early unwanted, and could the baby be months is in no way predictable of loved and cared for by someone whether or not that child will be else? Finally, I would like to urge loved and cherished by her after all of you with full voting rights to birth. Dr. Edward Lenoski, voice your approval of the professor of pediatrics at the amendment now before Congress university of Southern California which will guarantee the rights of medical complex now in the fifth the unborn. By writing to your year of an ongoing study of 500 congressman. successive battered children who Jack Hanzel came to the clinics and hospitals of Number 
that university center, has shown beyondanyquestionofadoubt that One Fans 
90 per cent of battered children 
were planned pregnancies. John Editor: 
C. Wilkes, m.d. stated that from a On January 19th, when Notre third to a half 6t those reading that Dame beat UCLA, someone article were, in fact unwanted ' carried a sign bearing the slogan pregnancies and many bitterly "God made Notre Dame Number unwanted. 1". In following commentaries, 
To those of you who say that the the N.D. fans were also given the fetus is not alive and functioning as number 1 title. At the time, this you or I, I must ask you how does ~as ~reat; the ND fans deserved one determine that you or I live? It. Right? Wrong~ The nu~1be.r 1 In answer to this we say that an fans were cheermg a wmmng individual is alive if their heart is team. A team that not only won beating or their brain is func-that particular game, but a ~~am tioning. Well after 6 weeks a heart that had not yet lost. In addition, beat can be detected, and after 10 cheering for winning teams was a habit with ND fans, and habits aren't easy to break, at least not for winning teams. Where were you, number 1 ND fans, when the Irish arrived at the circle at eight o'clock this morning? Why were there only five of us standing in the typically bleak South Bend mor­ning? Try and rationalize why one r.10rning you can stay awake until 
4:00 or 5:00 a.m., partying and celebrating a victory, sweated out by your team, when on another morning you cannot rise at 8 a.m., for just 30 minutes, to tell that same team that even though they lost, you still support them. Many more than five fans should have felt the desire, taken the initiative, and done something. Surely no one wanted to win that game more than the players themselves. 
Well, number one fans, although only a basketball game was lost last night, perhaps something r.HJre precious was lost this r.10rning. 
Mary Heasly Susan Leonard Carol Miskell Diane Morrissey Prudence Pyn 
Rah, Section 7 

Editor: 
Fm· the Rev. Terrence Lally, C.S.C., and Mrs. John Wooden, if their only objections are to the spirited conduct of the students of section 7 at the UCLA game, one of Harry Truman's famous quips is most apropos: "If you can't stand the heat, you ought to get out of the kitchen." Of the unjustly maligned students of section 7, I can only say that I wish my own neighboring section would demonstrate as r.mch spirit. If any apologies are due in this regard, the most pressing and essential is that which Fr. Lally owes to the fans of section 7. 
L. J. Bradley, J.D., Ph.D. Asst. Prof. Of History 
the observer 

Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Night Editor: Maria Gallagher Layout: Mike Kulczycki, Mark 
Fraze!, Fred Graver Copy Editor: Rick Thues Day Editor: Mary Janca, Jim 
Dona then Typists: Howard Halle, Bill Menk, 
Karen Hinks, C. Arrieh Compugraphic: Bob Steinme1tz Night Controller: Howard Halle Sports: John Fineran 
Dpinian 
At Game's End? 

william murphy 
Sometimes there's a light snow falling, but that's because this is 
Indiana. Of course the shuttle isn't running, so what else is new? The 
only car that ever passes you in your futile attempt to hitch is the 
damn security jeep who doesn't even turn on his roof light so that you 
would know you were wasting your time. 
You walk across 31 mainly because its too cold to run. It's empty, of 
cow·se, because you're the only fool out at this time in this weather. 
Now you play a game that you swear you'll never play again after it's 
finished. 
You warm up for this game by crossing the frozen snow in front of 
the retreat house or whatever its actual function -implied name is. 
The wind has created a top crust which is to be your opponent in this 
warr.1up for the main eyent. If you can slowly pace the distance from 
the thorn bushes on 31 to the lake without breaking through the glaze 
You've won the first contest. 
•· The trick here is to glide your feet rather then lake actual steps. You have somehow decided that you will be placing less weight on the surface of the glaze; after all, it has almost worked before. 
But there's always that one slope near the stairs that lead down to 
the lake. You've told yourself before that next time you will use the 
stairs but just like the previous competitions you try to navigate the 
siope and it's your ass that breaks through the glaze rather then your 
carefully moved feet which have actually broken into a sweat because, 
for once, you really believed you were going to win this time. So ends 
tlie warm up. 
Now for the main event. The ice seems unsuitable at the very edge 
of the lake so you try to step out onto it as far as possible. You remind 
yourself, in the back of your mind, that if you fall through the ice there 
will probably be no one around to hear you cry for help. Almost as if it 
could be scientifically predicted, however, this doesn't seem to bother 
you until you get past that little island at the western end of the lake. 
Now you are entering the main body of the lake. You seem to 
navigate from the lighted dome just like the planes from the county 
airport. Tt·acks of the afternoon's skaters ' blades glisten in the 
moonlight <when it can shine through the ever-present snowclouds) 
and you are convinced that if you follow them you will always be on 
solid ice. Up ahead there's a hockey rink made by the residents of 
Hoiy Cross and you rationalize that it, too, must be solid. Then, off to 
the right, is a picnic table on the ice and since it must be heavier then 
you the icc r.mst be solid there also. 
A feeling of semi-confidence comes over you so you quicken your 
pace. Then the ice groans and you think you heard a cracking noise. 
You stow down. That is, your motion slows down but now it's more 
then your feet that are sweating. The drifting snow frosting of the lake 
now uncovers a great many air pockets. Should you place all your 
weight between two air pockets? But there's too many to side step and 
you're almost at the hockey rink. 
The hockey rink is close to the Holy Cross shore and you could get off 
and walk around the take ... yes, that's what you should have done but 
now you find yourself surrounded by airpockets and the picnic bench 
isn't half as close as the shore had been. Suddenly you've reached the 
bench and it's time for the seventh inning stretch. So you sit on the 
bench for what seems to be forever but is actually 73 seconds and you 
scan the shore hoping someone sees you. 
Now it's a quick dash across some bumpy ice and up the steep 
shoreline in back of Morrissey, sort of a two minute warning or a ten­
second countdown by the fans. 
Now you remember how cold it actually is as the sweat starts to freeze in your shirt. The game is over and you've won again but you swear that was the last time ... until next time. 
daanesbury raarry trudeau 
ffi5A ff ~G/15 HGR 50V 
RU((If51 FOR RAN {)(IT OF Ft/GL. 
FIVGGAUONS ltllltG Pf(IVING CW 7ll!i 
OrGASOtiNG, (){/0 7liRNPIKe. He5HAP11J 
/5 1H/5 WR CZA/i!.­t/Ve IN A HOT~ 
RtQI/EST? SHIP. fROM !?liSTAti?ANTtK/7511¥
I THIS MI1AN! 51/t'a tAT/3 MJYE/18&R. 




5

Monday, January 28, 1974 the observer 

Little Bi~ Screen 
solid entertainment all week 
art ferranti 

nounces herself as his present (we should be This episode probes the question of 
Films do not have to be star-studded to be documentary movies to highlight somewhat 
so lucky). It's all a comic scheme to marry colonization by extraterrestials before 
good, solid drama or comedy nor do they dubious thoeries and drive them home. The 
recorded history. The Primal Man series
him, of course.

have to be those that everyone talks about. producers missed a good chance, though, of 
telecasts its second of four parts at eight

There is some highly dramatic viewing
What the networks present us with this showing_ an actual insect conquest, but I 
Thursday on 28. Here w~ have societies

tonight with the ABC Theater presentation
week, as far as non-TV movies go, fit neatly guess it would have cost too much to film the 
being formed, clans instituted, and kinships 

of the trial of the first atomic saboteurs in
into that good but not popularly great genre. cockroaches at St. Ed's. 
delineated in our Homo Erectus stage of

Judgement: The Trial of Ethel and Julius
The perfect examples of this point are 
-evolution. M::~le supremacy is also

Rosenberg. Herschel Bernardi, Brenda
Wednesday's Red Sky at Morning on 16 at ***** 
examined. Friday at seven on ABC Jane

Vaccaro: and Harold Gould head the cast as
eight and Saturday's Silent Running same Tonight, Mia Farrow is rerun in See No 
Goodall studies "The Baboons of Gombe"

they present the courtroom drama of the
time, same station. In the fromer, we have Evil, a Wait Until Dark spin-off that does 
which also features the creatures vying for 

Rosenbergs, accused of selling atomic
Richard Thomas (John Boy in "The · not come up to the standards of that fine male dominance. Hal Holbrook narrates.
secrets in the pre-McCarthy era of 1951. The
Walton's and Desi Arnez, Jr., confronting Hepburn film. In this entry, instead, we 
Finally, at seven-thirty on 22, Snoopy and

ccourt round them guilty and sentenced
each other in racial disruptions as they grow have Miss Farrow stalked by a killer whose 
Woodstock turn Sherlock Holmes and Dr.

them to death. They are the only two spies
up in 1944 in the Southwest. Richard Crenna knocked off all her friends. The catch is, of Watson in a newPeanuts cartoon "It's a
executed in peacetime to this day,. The film
and Claire Bloom are on hand to lend a solid course, she is blind. Sunday at seven thirty 
Mystery, Charlie Brown."

used actuall transcripts from the trial and
back-up to the cast as Thomas' parents. on ABC (28) David Janssen stars in a non­Late-night viewing has Dick Clark
its premise is "Was there reasonable
entity entitled Smile Jenny, You're Dead. It highlighting the "Rock of the Sixties"
Silent Running stars Bruce Dern, usually 
doubt?" 

a heavy in films and TV, and Cliff Potts is another murder mystery with the ex­Cicely Tyson returns to television Wednesday at ten-thirty on 28, Alan King 
<Gene Barry's assistant in "The Name of declive, fugitive,treasury agent as the hero. looking into things Americans do to keep
Thursday at eight on 22 in The 
the Game") in a science fiction drama Zigzag is repeated Friday on CBS at eight themselves looking beautiful the following
Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman which 
and is your standard suspense film. George night, same time, same channel, and "In
about ecology. Like 2001 the film's exterior chronicles the fictitious life of the titleKennedy plays doomed man who frames Concert" Friday with The Steve Miller
shots of the spaceships are exact but not character from 19 to 110, from slavery to the
himself for a murder and tries to clear
quite as good. The plot revolves around early 1960's. Like Little Big Man the story Band and Todd Rundgren.
himself. Anne Jackson, Eli Wallach and
Dern's efforts to stop his fellow astronauts is told to an historian and Miss Tyson ages Quick Notices: A "Waltonesqesque" new 
Kennedy, though, make this unbelievable
from destroying the only forests left-those with the help of make-up in the narration. show premieres Sunday at seven-thirty on that are on their ships orbiting the earth. It plot incrediaible. On the late movie Sunday on 16 William CBS replacing the defunct "New Perry .. Killdozer on the ABC suspense movie Mason" and it is called "Apple's Way" And
is vastly underrated film that climaxes Holden jets off to destroy The Bridges at 
when the forests takeover. For those who circuit has Clint Walker, Carl Betz, James for those of us who have been waiting for it,
Toko-Ri during ths Korean War while Grace 
wish to know how the robots work send a Wainwright, and Neville Brand menaced by the current shocker The Exorcist based on
Kelly waits behind. Mickey Rooney and 
stamped self-addresses envelope to me at a huge unmanned bulldozer after it the William Peter Blatty novel that seems to
Frederic March are also in this supperb
the office. It is too strange to relate here. unearths a strange meteor. I am a little James Michner adaptation, a cut above be scaring evryone will begin a stint in 
hesitant of the plot( it is made -for TV so I South Bend February 8 at the State Theater. 
most war flicks.

have not seen it) but the title alone is sharp Trivia Question Name the characters that ***** enough to get one to watch. For those who were fairly regular in Combat! (There are The Hellstrom Chronicle, part fact' part would enjoy seeing Karen Valentine clad in ***** seven).science fiction has the bugs take over in­a skimpy bikini, tune in to The Girl Who Specials; The sequel to "In Search of 
.Ali!S:

stead of the forests. It starts a half hour Came Gift Wrapped tomorrow at seven­Ancient Astronauts" airs Thursday at seven 
earlier than Running, at seven-thirty, thirty on 28. Here she bounces up on on 16 entitled "In Search or' Ancient pue 'JOQ 'uqofamn 'a~eJ '.\qJ!)l 's.1ap Wednesday on 28. The film uses Richard Long's fortieth birthday and an-Mysteries" with host-narrator Rod Serling. -unes d!QJ 'l~S 'Aa!UeH !!!) 'l1 .JaMsuv 
•

an american 1n • • • coimbra? 
by brian burke 

A bullfight in the trying. The student is marched in 
before him as he strode down the classroom ... military tanks on the before a tribunal of three hall, clearing students from his campus ... tearful oral professors who sit on a raised path. The r:1an-servant would examinations, these are some of platform. One professor taught the always enter the classroom while the Portugese memories of course, the other two often know Weber remained outside the door. Professor Ronald Weber, chair­little about what the course He would silence the students, take man of Notre Dame's program in covered. When the grilling is the roll, and when he thought he American Studies. Mr. Weber completed, the three professors had things at just the right pitch he spent a year in Portugal as a vote on whether the student passes would walk to the door, fling it Fulbright lecturer at the or fails. The two Portugese open with a flourish, and in walked University of Coimbra. professors examining with Weber. Portuguese students were 
Mr. Weber came here in the fall Professor Weber would often, by quite passive. They seldom asked 
of 1968. He served as a lecturer in their questioning, reduce a student questions, would hardly look at a American Studies at Coimbra's to tears. professor in the halls, and had to be Institute for North American coaxed into arguing during a Studies. This Institute was part of Regardless of these exams, seminar. an English-German major and was Weber does not think that Por­Yet Mr. Weber remembers one the most popular department for tugese students have to work instance when the students were 
students in the Humanities not so passive. The university was
nearly as hard as American dedicating a new engineeringCollege. students. First of all, their entire 
Mr. Weber taught two courses at academic year only amounts to building, and the President of Coimbra. The first was a lecture Portugal, decked out in his white
about one U.S. semester. At the 
course for about 100 3rd year <BA) end of the term in June, Portugese admiral's uniform, had come to 
officiate at the ceremony. During

and 5th year<MA) students en­students can either take their final 
titled, "The Literature and Culture exams or postpone them until the the procedings the admiral was 
of North America". He described fall. · Most of them put off the heckled by a group of students. 
it as being similar to a course he exam, and since the university has about from experience, is called horse.-Finally, Weber was asked 
would teach at Notre Dame, yet another rule that classes for one the "bullfight". What the bullfight to remove his suitcoat. He had on a Under pressure from the govern­
perhaps a bit more basic. When term cannot begin until all the amounts to is a hazing of new tie and short sleeve dress shirt. At ment, the university held the 
beginning to read Huck Finn, for exams from the previous term teachers by the students. The the sight of this, the students were leaders of student government 
example, he had to explain where have been completed, many teacher is the bull, the students are simply rolling in the ais)"~ Weber responsible for this incident and 
the Mississippi River was. Weber courses do not get started until the matadors. Mr. Weber had been explains that Portuguese men are prevented them from taking their 
also taught a seminar to about after New Year's . Professor forewarned of what to expect and really fashion peacocks with their finals, which meant they would 
twenty MA candidates on con­Weber began teaching in the instructed not to resist the bullfight french cuffs and cufflinks. To be lose credit for the term. Sym­
temporary American literature, middle of November, and he was or the matadors would be back caught wearing a short sleeve shirt pathetic students went out on 
where works by authors like among the first at the university to every day until he submitted. was to them the equivalent of being strike and immediately the 
Bellow and Mailer were discussed. do so. Also, Portuguese students Weber remembers that he opened caught in your underwear. After government closed off the campus 
Portuguese students are only take three courses per term the door on his first class and there about 15 to 20 minutes of this, with troops and tanks. For about 
required to pass comprehensive and seldom are expected to write were around 200 people in the everyone thanked Weber, the ten days Weber was searched on 
written and oral examinations at papers on the material covered. room. He was met at the door by matadors embraced him, all the his way to and from campus by 
the end of each term. Mr. Weber At Coimbra the students enforce three or four student leaders who non-students left, and he started guards carrying machine guns. He 
notes that a teacher is free to a number of time honored customs would lead him through the teaching his class. would look out his office window to 
examine his students on any which seem strange to Americans. bullfight. First he was asked to Perhaps some of the hilarity the see tanks in the yard. The students 
material that is contained under A freshman girl, for example, stand on the desk, which everyone students found in this exercise can finally caved in and the dispute
the course title, not just what has cannot be seen on campus unless found hilarious. Next, he was told be explained when we realize that was settled. 
been covered in class. A student she is accompanied by a man. to remove his shoes. The the professor at a Portuguese Despite incidents like this, 
taking a course in Shakespeare, for Freshman males are barred from congregation all held their noses university is a very elevated figure Professor Weber found his year
example, is responsible for all of certain areas of the city at certain and roared. Then they wanted him before whom the students bow and among the Europeans to be a 
Shakespeare (although the teacher hours. If caught in violation of to tell a dirty joke about Lyndon scrape. Weber recalls that he had rewarding experience. He was 
usually supplies a bibliography) these rules by older students, their Johnson. Since Weber couldn't a combination janitor and man­introduced to a different kind of 
not just those plays read in class. heads are shaved. Perhaps think of one off the top of his head, servant assigned to him by the student, a different kind of 
Weber recalls the hour oral Coimbra's most bizarre custom, the masses were appeased by an university who would dean his university, a different kind of 
examination as being especially and one which Mr. Weber learned imitation of Johnson riding a office, bring him coffee and walk culture. 
r -----~
--~-----­
~ 6 the observer Monday, January 28, 1974 

•
• t 
~ 
t • 
How do I go about getting more Mardi Gras raffle tickets? 
~ 
sold all of mine and Istill have more relatives left. 
~ 
To get more raffle tickets either contact your hall Mardi Gras chairman or Joe Griffin. His phone number is 234-7589. In most halls your section leader will collect any unused later on. The drawing for the raffle will be held on Sunday, February 10. For those planning to gamble away your for­tunes at Stepan Center, there will be live entertainment every night. It will consist of folk or rock groups, or in­dividual singers. 
Over Christmas, my roomate and I each lost our mail keys. Who do I contact here in Fisher hall so we can get them replaced? 
In Fisher Hall, you can call Richard Morton at 3079. For anyone else who loses either their mail or room keys, get in touch with your hall clerk. If you don't know who he is, call the Ombudsman Office. They have a complete listing of all hall clerks. 
I've been waiting to see The Exorcist. Is it going to play in South Bend? 
Yes, The Exorcist is~oing to come to the State theater on February 9. As of now, they don't know how long it will stay, or the admission cost. Warning to the weaker souls: A lot of people have fainted or gotten sick afterseeingit, so be careful. 
Can you tell when An Tostal weekend is and and who I can contact for more information? 
We found out that An Tostal will be on April 18th, 19th, and the 20th. Later they will be publishing more information, but if you have nay questions now, call Wally Gasior at 1586. 
CILA is a 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 

Did you ever want to go to Latin America, Mexico, or different parts of the United States and feel you were doing a service at the same time? If so, get in contact with CILA for a total educational experience. 
CILA sends ND-SMC students on different projects such as teaching, construction, directing, recreational programs and just plain helping communities of countries that need help. 
Contrary to Vista and the Peace Corps, CILA's purpose isn't solely service, but the development of the individual's understanding and appreciation of problems in dif­ferent civilizations. 
Doughnut eating 
record is broken 
by truckdriver 
CARSON, CALIFORNIA (UPI)­What does a person say after he's eaten 28 doughnuts in 15 minutes? 
"I've got a well-trained gut," a bloated Jerry Wright, 35, said Saturday after claiming the world record for doughnut eating. "I spent eight years in the Marines, including survival school." 
Wright, a truckdriver from South Gate, Calif., outmunched a field of nearly 600 other com­petitors in a contest at the Caron Mall here, billed as the world's doughnut-eating championship. 
Wright's 28 dunkers surpassed 
by eight the record set in 1971 by an 
unidentified Durham, England, 
... person, according to Guiness' Book of records. 
Emergency landing 
Tollroad's an airstrip 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 

For what looked like another 
victim of the fuel shortage, it was 
just one of "those" days. 

But unfortunately, Douglas 
Tucker, 31, of Lake Orion, Mich., 
had only himself to blame for the 
unusual forced landing on the 
Indiana Toll road Friday morning 
that left his single-engined private 
airplane on a St. Mary's field. 

"It was just pilot error," he 
explained. "I just ran out of gas." 
Tucker's troubles began at 8:15 
Friday morning during a flight 
from Deckerville, Mich., to 
Chicago. He was carrying three 
passengers and suddenly noticed 
his fuel gauge was low. With only 
countryside and the Indiana 
Tollroad below him, there was only 
one place to go. 

He said he met no cars during the landing, which he described as having few problems. "the tollroad's better than most small airports," he said, adding that the thin strip of road gave him no trouble. 
One truck driver saw his situation, he continu~d, and helped out by stopping hi3 semi-tractor­trailer and blockir1g traffic until a safe landing wa.;; assured. 
Then came ~he state police and 
the tollroad authority. 

"The state police thought it would be too dangerous to try to take offagainso they wanted me to dismantle the plane and tow off the pieces," Tucker said. "I wasn't too enthusiastic about that, so I asked who owned the field (next to where the plane was parked). They told me St. Mary's College." 
Actually, he later discovered, St. Mary's Convent owned the property, and after going through the proper channels, he received permission to cut a wire fence and 
learning experience 
Last year CILA sent students to Mexico, Mississippi, North Dakota and St. Lucia in the West Indies to help. Besides these,_ this year's projects available are in Ap­palacia's New Orleans, Panama, and Savannah, Georgia. 
Joe Marino, pre~ident of CILA, explains the social-educational atmosphere CILA tries to provide: "There is usually some type of social function three times a semester and guest speakers are brought in to talk about where CILA is needed." 
"This is not just a service group, but it's going to help the kids too, and at the same time we've got to be sure we're getting a good job done wherever we're going," commented Marino. 
CILA finances travel arrangements and lilving expenses in the countries, which can cost anywhere from $8,000-$17,000. The money is collected mainly from the CILA Christmas cards and from Mardi Gras. 
Marino comments, "We try to prepare the group before they go and follow them up afterwards for the most meaningful experience." 
If there are any further questions aboutCILA or you want to get involved in a new and dif­ferent experience, contact Joe Marino, 233-1089, or Mary Bech­man, 6766. 
Don't Forget!· 
PLEASE 
All Mardi Gras raffle tickets MUST be returned. NOW. 
GIVE MONEY OR UNSOLD TICKETS TO YOUR SECTION LEADER. 
move the plane into the field. 
"They were exceptionally nice and helpful," Tucker commented in reference to the St. Mary's sisters. "The mother superior herself came out and told me it didn't matter about the field, but to take my time and do what I had to do." 
He added that once his plan to move the plane off the tollroad was set, the state police and the tollroad authority were also helpful. He then enlisted some friends to move the plane. 
"Three of us towed the plane by hand to the field," he said, describing the route as down a long embankment, across a small ditch and up another, shorter, em­bankment. 

He said the group encountered few problems in the towing because the airplance was fairly light. "the (St. Mary's) security Tucker: Wasn't too en-people weren't to happy about the thusiastic about taking his fence, but they were nice about the plane apart. whole thing." 
Once settled in the field, which attempt to get into the air. When Tucker said was long enough to the propeller hit the ground once, take off in, he arranged for some Tucker halted the plane and shut it gas for the plane and prepared to off. take off shortly after 3 p.m. "We'll just have to wait a few However, the plane proved unable days until the ground freezes," he to negotiate the soggy ground of said. "We shouldn't have any the field, and tore deep ruts in the problems then. I hope." 



The way to buy the insurance you need but may feel you can't afford. 
For further information call: 
233-3104. Talk to: 
JOHN COUNSELL 
CLASS OF '64 
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK
The Mutual Life Insurance Company 01 New York 

Marine Corps 
Earn $100 a month and a Marine Corps commission through the Platoon Leaders Class. 

Eligible college men can earn $1 00 a month each month of the regular school year. It's like a $900 annual scholarship. 
The PLC also offers a 
few good men the 
chance to learn to fly 
free. The Corps pays 
the entire cost of 
civilian flight instruction 
... worth about $800. 

All PLC leadership training takes place during the summer when it can·t i nteriere with your college career. Upon graduation PLC members are commissioned SeCond Lieutenants. 

The Marines 
Today through 
are looking for Friday noon and a few good men. evening meals Dining Halls 



Monday, January 28, 1974 the observer 
Woodens recieve apology from University 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Dear Mr. and Mrs. Wooden: This University has had time to reflect on the unconscionable behavior displayed by some student spectators during the UCLA­Notre Dame basketball game last Saturday. And, the Student Life Council, a representative body of students, faculty and administrators with concern for matters that affect the quality of student life, requested that we offer an apology on their behalf. The achievements of Notre Dame's athletic teams have traditionally served as a source of unifying pride and are therefore important at this community. Fan encouragement and support for Notre Dame is cited often as a factor which con­tributes significantly to the successes of our our various athletic teams. But the incidents of last Saturday have for many persons here detracted from the joy they would have otherwise felt following victory. Any offer of apology would indeed be hollow unless we also established a willingness now to do the things necessary to bring the comportment of all Notre Dame fans to a level that com­plements, rather than diminishes, the excellence achieved by our athletes and their coaches. Such behavior is discrediting to Notre 
Dame and realizing that, an appeal to the pride each of us has for Notre Dame will be made. Each person ideally would be responsible for monitoring his personal conduct even when a spectator at a sports event. Leaders at all levels of this University will have to use their forums to call us all to our responsibilities for basic human decency. We should note too that while little would now be served by attempts to place specific blame for the incidents which caused you both great discomfort last Saturday, those who witnessed it but did nothing to intervene and stop it should not hold themselves blameless. South Bend was your home for a time. You have maintained close ties and are frequent visitors here. Most certainly you both have many fond memories of both the city and this place. Hopefully these have not suffered and you will accept this apology and the spirit of good will in which it is offered. With all good wishes, we remain 
Most sincerely, Dr. Robert L. Ackerman Vice Chairman, Student Life Council 
Dennis P. Etienne Student Body President 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Rapid gro-wth prolllpts WSND to relllodel studio facilities 
by Sue Divita Staff Reporter 

WSND, the radio station which serves the St. Mary's-Notre Dame comPunity, has experienced such rapid growth in the past two to three years that they are currently remodeling their studios to meet their present needs. Station r:1anager, Richard Flannigan, says the three-stage building program, which begun last April, should be finished by December of 1974. 
Flannigan says the a.m. studio was m·iginally one of the smallest rooms of the station, and the ,·ec!ll'ds were inconveniently kept in another section. Thus, the new 
a.m. studio, the first step in the building program, was moved to the large room where the records are stored. 
A wall installed for sound dif­ficulties and the announcer's bay were built by WSND's own people. New purchases included a $3,000 audio console and tone arms, paid out of the station's general operating funds. 
The total construction costs Flannigan states, would have been less than f.m., if new equipment hadn't been needed. 
The f.m. studio used to be, "nothing, a hallway and a small closet," Flannigan says. When the studio increased its power and went stereo about three years ago, new equipment was purchased. The fact that the studio was growing all the time led to stage two of the building program. Walls were knocked down, put up, and now the studio is in the midst of its remodeling. 
Because the wall had to be knocked down, the costs for redoing the f.m. studio will total about $600. The entire studio design has been done by senior, Gary Gool, and the station's own workers will build the studio. 
F.M. program director, Mike Bl'idgeman, says the new set up will, "sound better. It's hard to be conscientious in an unfinished studio. It will improve the general attitude." 
Ail the f.m. equipment is two or three years old and of good sound quality. When the studio is com­plete, the f.m. shows will be run­ning smoothly and without the interruptions and noise of the past. 
The third and last stage in the building program will be finsihing the r.1iddle room between the a.m. and f.m. studios which will be used for production and live shows. This will be the room which will 

_._,. 
~" 
MARCEL MARCEAU 
O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM -ST. MARY'S COLLEGE 
Tuood.,, FEBRUARY 19 • 8.00 p.m. 
All Seats Reserved: Main Floor ss.oo, Balcony $4.00 Ticket Information, call NO Cultural Arts Commission. 283-3797 
Ticket Sales: CAC Office, 4th Fir. LaFortune Patron Holders ONLY -Jan. 29-31, 1-4pm General Sales. Feb. 1-18, 1-4 pm 
take up the slack the two studios cannot handle. WSND is experiencing its first 
-gmwth since the station was first set up in 1955. Then, only an a.m. studio was in operation. It was held in the smallest room. The old f.m. studio, which began with only ten watt power, now is operating twelve months a year and can be picked up ooff the campus, in South Bend and the surrounding area. AU the problems won't be behind the station, once the project is finished. The record libraries of both a.m. and f.m. are constantly accumulating. Within the next few years the station may not be able to operate at all in their present location. 
by Jack D' Aurora Staff Reporter 

In reparation for the abusive 
language suffered by Mr. and Mrs. 
John Wooden at the U.C.L.A. game 
last January 19, Dr. Robert L. 
Ackerman, Vice Chairman of the 
Student Life Council and Dennis 
Etienne, Student Body President 
addressed a letter of apology to 
them last Thursday. 
According to Ackerman, 
"Several vulgarities were directed 
at Wooden. His wife asked one of 
the security personnel if he could do 
something, but the situation was so 
out of control that he couldn't do 
anything." 
"The problen1 with the crowds at 
basketball games has never been ·dealt with, and the S.L.C. hasn't dealt with the problem until now because of the problem of jurisdiction," said Ackerman. It's not an S.L.C. concern directly, but that doesn't mean we can't confer 
on it." 
Ackerman feels that this same 
problem also exists with the other 
sports events. "I don't like going 
to the hockey games because of the 
unruly crowds. The problem is 
further exemplified by the recent 
letter in the Observer expressing 
the same feeling," he stated. 
"From what I've heard," said 
Etienne, "some of the people at the 
hockey games have really been 
consistent in the use of vulgarities. 
However, if the South Bend people 
are as nJUch behind the hockey 
teams as that one letter in the 
Observer stated, then possibly 
some of the South Bend people 
could be responsible." 
Ackerman went on to say that 
"ND is unique for we have three coaches, Parseghian, Phelps and Sr.1ith, who have built up a lot of class in athletics. It's too bad that 
students  have  to  detract  from  
that."  
Remedying  the situation  "is  a  

difficult problem," says Acker­I~lan. "I don'fknow how it's going to be confronted. I don't know how to 11,et a mob to act decent." 
"It's pretty much up to the student body," said Etienne. "I think that the University would be r:1aking a r.1istake if they forced a certain conduct on the students. That would only create resent­r.,enl," he added. 
According to Etienne, "the 
U.C.L.A. game is the exception, and as for the b.s. cheer, it may be offensive, and I can see why the University wouldn't like it on national T.V., but it's nothing unusual. I've seen it used at other 
These cooldes 
guarantee gas 
MIAMI <UPil--A Miami area girl scout troop is getting a boost from the energy crisis at a gas station which has involved a rule: no cookies, no fillup. 
Service station operator Lou Doucette let his daughter and other r.,embers of her girl scout group seil cookies to motorists waiting in line at his station and then gave sales a little extra boost. 
One motorist declined when an attendant asked him if he wanted to buy cookies. The attendant then poked his head in the car and snapped: "Well, how's your gas situation?" 
He explained that without a purchase of cookies there would be an eight-gallon limit on gas sales. 
"You know what you're doing? You're blackmailing me," said the customer. 
But then he smiled, bought the cookies and got his full tank of gasoline. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

6Q Watt RMS I(LH Receiver ,$160. Garrard SL95B Turntable complete,$125. 2 EPI 100 Loudspeakers, $135. 1 EPI 50Loudspeaker,$35. AKAI Open Reel Deck witf> Sound on Sound, Soleniod control5, 3 Motor, and Auto Reverse, S 250. Call Kim at 234-2536 or 288-0950 after 5:30pm. 
Bunk beds in good condition. $60. Call 272-7857. 
Foil Bike Theives! super­duper bike locks for sale. Judy 4970. 
Stereo turntable, Thorens model TD160,only 3weeksold. Full warranty included. $175. Call 232-1535 after8:30 pm. 
PERSONALS 

Tracy and Judy request the presence of Ms. Lampkin at dinner this evening, 5:30 in the south dining hall. 
Whatever happened to Lynn? You'll find her on Gilligans Island. Congratulations-the Natives. 
0 LUCKY DENIZENS OF DULAC!!! I have returned. Monastatos. 
WANTED 

Need male to share furnished house. $87.50 per includes utiI. 232-2430 ,ask for Tim. 
Desperately need LaSalle tix. 234-4833. 
WINDJAMMER looking for lead guitarist with E~quipment, pre!. sing, call Jim 1409 for appt. 
Need 2 girls for apt. Call 8620. 
Need ride next weekend to I.U. tor Dylan concert. 1178 
Need about 4 Marquette 'icke•s. call 272-9552 ask tor either Tom, George, or John. 
NOTICES 
2nd ANNUAL GSU SKI TRIP: 5-10 pm Feb. 16. Swiss Valley. $6, half-price for first 25 grad sign-ups. Bus availble. P. Bolduc, 373 Nieuwland Science 
Hall. 
Sister Marita needs volunteers for the Primary Day School. 
For information call 7889. 
Experienced typist will do term papers manuscripts, etc. Call 233-5332. 
TUCSON SPRING BREAK: We are trying to organize a trip for Spring Break . If in­terested call Monica 4434 or 
Beth 4796. 
FLANNER FOOD SALES: 
Pizzas-mushroom, pepperoni, sausage, cheese. Pop-12 oz. cans 15 cents; 16 oz. cans 20 cents. Hours 10:15-11:45. 
Phone 8047. 
NO Backpackers: The Denali expedition film is here. Tonite 
1-C 9:30 PPM. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms for girls close to NO. Kitchen privetges, swimming pool. $15 per week. 272-3004 after 6 pm. 
1974-75 school year-Beautiful house, nice neighborhood. 5 
B R. 234-5523. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost black leather wallet between Washington Hall and Alumni. Call Dan 1029. 
Accutron watch lost: Initials JPJ 12-25-72. Reward. <;~II 1579. 
Lost set of 4 keys on leather strap. Call Dave 7888. 
schools." "It seems that only rece1tly 
have  we  had  any  complaints  "  
continued  Etienne.  "It's  u~­ 
fortunate  that  the stu·  ·nt  

. body offended people, but I · nk 
It has to be remembered tha the instances are few and far betwe<·n " 
he concluded. ' 
Yearbook photos 
Senior picture sitting ap­pointments will be taken beginning tonight, January 28, in the dining halls. Juniors are to sign up for the sitting times that begin Monday, February 4. The sitting fee is one dollar this semester, but jumps to ten dollars for the students who wait until September. 
Yearbook staff member, Jan Huber, urges all Juniors to sign up now; not only to save money, but to insure the on-time arrival of proofs for the yearbook use. 
Appropriate dress, according to Huber, is coat and tie for males and street clothes for females. Delma Studios are responsible for the pictures. The Delma representative suggests that students wear apparel that shows up nicely in color and avoid dull blacks and whites. 
Off campus residents may make appointments by calling the Dome <yearbook) office, 7524, between 7 '·md 9 p.m. 
The Thomas A. Dooley Foundation is Working.... 
in Cambodia, in Laos, in Nepal, in the hearts of millions. 
®
for information 
on how you can help: Write P.O. Box 1195 South Bend, Ind. 


the observer Monday, January 28, 1974
8 

' f 
I ~ ~gry A.~.~~~~~SUCL!~~~h Irish. 94-7 5 
; 
i ~ 
··::. · by Vtc D?rr spired B_ruins had giVen th~Jr one stage of the second half, but 
~ 
Sports Edttor barometnc pressure cause to nse the Irish rallied in the waning 
No, it wasn't just "any other by handing Notre Dame its fir.st-moments of the game and cut the game." Not for coach John and worst-basketball defeat smce final spread to 19, 94-75. Wooden's UCLA Bruins, anyway. last year's NIT. UCLA scored the d first nine points of the game, John Shumate pace Notre 
l It was a game the Uclans had sprinted to a _17 lead midway Dame's scoring with 27 points
31 
anticipated for a week, though through the first half, and then (eight field goals, 11 free throws), their preparedness and execution coasted the rest of the way enroute while Gary Brokaw tallied 14, Billy made it seem more like a month. to a 94-75 triumph, their fifteenth of Paterno 11, and Ray Martin 10. It was the rematch of the 71-70 the season against the one loss. Notre Dame, now 12-1 on the
t defeat the Bruins suffered in the Only once did the Irish make season, enjoyed an abbreviated ACC on January 19, and it was a things uncomfortable for the day of rest yesterday before game John Wooden had labelled a home-standing Uclans, and that beginning preparations for
! ' 
"barometer of which is the better one instance came just before the Tuesday's home game against the 
! 
team." half, when Notre Dame's full-court sixth-ranked Marquette Warriors. press forced the Bruins into The Irish began practicing for several quick turnovers. A pair of Marquette at 8 p.m. last night, but .
SMC cagers free throws by Ray<Dice) Martin will receive little respite after the cut the Bruin lead to nine at 39-30, Warriors leave town on Tuesday.
open season but answering buckets by first For after the contest with Al Dave Meyers and then Keith McGuire's club, Notre Dame mustwith loss to Wilkes gave UCLA a 13-point face, in quick succession, D~Paul cushion at intermission (43-30), <Thursday) and DavidsonBroncettes and the Irish never threatened <Saturday) at home before taking again. to the road for a Monday game Bill Walton and Keith Wilkes with Michigan State.
by Kathi Paterno tallied 32 of UCLA's 43 first half 

Making its debut Thursday points. But the Bruins shared the evening, the St. Mary's women's scoring chores in the second half NO-Bruins basketball team suffered a G9-23 and by the time they were done, defeat against Western Michigan._ every member of their starting boxscore
It was the first game for the SMC five had registered double figures. cagers. Although overwhelmed by 
Walton finished with a game­
the aggressive opposition away NOUf DAME
high 32 points-<!oming on 16 field 
ll F P ll F P

from home, the St. Mary's squad goals-and forward Keith Wilkes W'... I42Novah 202
felt the game was not a true in­5040onl~., 313
cashed in with 20. Freshman
dication of their potential. w..... 1605~ 7113
......._

Marques Johnson, whom Wooden --103Ciap 
201"We haven't played together for started in place of forward Pete Curiit 4231robw 542
.... 
120P.,..mo

long,"said Mary Mithcell, "but we Trgovich, finished with 16 points, ,.......,. 511 
0 0 I Mort~ 4 2 2

enjoyed ourselves and hope to and his scoring and rebounding .,.,., 102Crotty 001
improve with experience." versatility gave the Bruins an McC-· 000 
........... 000

Beth Marren was high scorer for advantage they did not possess in WC1hinglon 000 St. Mary's with eight points, the earlier match-up between the two teams. 
Tololt 43 8 20 Tololo 28 19 15

followed by Mary Mitchell with Holtn: UClA 43, Notre Dame 30. 
seven . Powerful Linda Tyson, 4-But the biggest advantage the 10, led Western Michigan with 13 Uclans owned was not in points. rebounding but in shooting per­
Commenting on the game, centage. Nearly as hot in the first Coaches Dick Singsank and Mark half of Saturday's game as they Shellenbarger said, "We looked were in the first half of the con­great in the warm-ups, but during frontation at Notre Dame the game, we only shot 10 per cent <Wooden's club shot 64 per cent in the first half and 15 per cent in during the first 20 minutes of the the second." game at Pauley Pavilion), the 
Bruins refused to cool after in-
In addition, four SMC starters termission and continued their 
by John Fineran

werein foul trouble with four fouls 
torrid pace throughout the final their dictionary. period.
apiece early in the game. Bowling Green, Ohio can be
minutes of the contest. The Irish and Falcons played But the echoes shook down
described in one word --flat. And 
almost to a standoff <BG 3-2) in the wrongly for Notre Dame afterTentatively scheduled are UCLA's hot shooting put the this same word is exactly the way first and third periods, but hockey Israelson's goal. Irish fans, whogames in February with Bethel Irish in jeopardy from the start, Notre Dame's hockey team looked
College of Mishawaka and several consists of three 20-minute stan­made the three-hour bus trip to
but coach Digger Phelps' squad in its 8-3 loss to the Falcons. games with the women's interhall contributed to its own downfall by zas, and Bowling Green won the Bowling Green, had something to 
The Falcons showed no 
second rather easily, 5-l. And all cheer about 29 seconds into the last teams of Notre Dame. missing seven shots in a row before 
hospitality to the Irish Friday 
five of the Falcon markers were period as a 2-on-1 break betweenGary Brokaw spun a follow-shot off 
Presently, the girls must fund night, and indeed they shouldn't direct results of Irish mistakes. Ian Williams and Eddie Bumbacco 
their own uniforms and trans-· the board to make it 9·2, UCLA. 
have. Mter all, Notre Dame was 
Mter Larry Israelson had tied culminated with Willy tipping theportation to away games. Next The Irish played even with the unmerciful Wednesday to Bowling the score, 2-2, with a powerplay puck past the Falcons' AI Sarach­
year, however, they will be placed Bruins during the remainder of the Green (a 7-4 win in the A.C.C.). 
backhander at 5:57, Bowling man. 

on the athletic department's first half, but could never recover Bowling Green, however, did show Green's offense, which "You have to credit Bowlingbudget. Also, by that time, the from that nine-point deficit and Notre Dame the way the Irish will forechecked well all evening, went Green for the way they played,"squad will replace the present were quickly outdistanced in the have to play these next five into high gear. High gear? left wing Bumbacco said on
invitational schedule with a more second half when the Bruins weekends, all WCHA two-game Supersonic would be better. the bus home. Bowling Green,perm anent intercollegiate resumed their awesome display of sets. For the Irish icers, the word At 6:25 of the second period, Bob although only 13-14,did indeed play 
calendar. marksmanship. flat has to cease being a part of 
Dobek, undetected to Mark with championship caliber. Kronholm 's right, tipped a cross­"We were flat," Bumbacco ice pass by the Irish netminder. 3-2 concluded. Bowling Green. Notre Dame, now 10-13-1,indeed 
At 7:51, Rich Nagai, also was that. And if Bowling Green, unharassed by Irish defenders, Ohio is flat, what awaits the Irish fired a wristshot from the slot past next weekend in Grand Forks, Kronholm. Bowling Green 4, Notre N.D. is even more terrifying. Dame 2. "When the plane is landing at 
At 9:27, Steve Ball shot, and the Grand Forks," Irish coach Lefty velocity carried Kronholm, too, Smith said before Falcon en­into the Irish net. Falcons, 5-2. counter, "you can almost see 
At 14:34, Kevin MacDonald's 300 milesin every direction." slapper from the point rebounded In other words, flat. into the slot. Bruce Woodhouse, unmolested, controlled and fired Frazier-Ali the puck past Kronholm. 6-2 Falcons. 

The scale read "209lbs." for Joe 
Finally at 18:09,Jack Laine< alone Frazier and "212 lbs." for 

again, naturally) finished the Muhammad Ali as the two former 

scoring with a 10-foot wristshot heavyweight champions weighed· past the beleagured Irish net­in for their scheduled 12-round minder. Amid shouts from the rematch tonight in New York's 
partisan, capacity crowd of 3,267 Madison Square Garden. ("Way to go, Irish. Way to go!"), The weigh-in, held yesterdaythe Falcons left the ice with a 7-2 
afternoon in the Garden's Felt lead at the second period in­Forum complex, proceededtermission. 
without any disruptions. In a It looked for a while that Notre Wednesday afternoon taping for 
Dame was going to make a game ABC's Wide World of Sports, Ali out of it. Down 2-o early, the Irish and Frazier both scuffled on stagedrew within one with Alex Pirus' 
after Ali had called Frazier steal and goal at 16:15 of the first 
"ignorant." 

Bruin center Bill Walton, shown here in Notre Dame's upset win two Saturdays ago, dominated last Saturday night's showdown with the Irish, scoring a season-high 32 points. 
Bowling Green too much 
Irish skaters routed, 8-3 







