

l
Oza The IDslde 
I
Indiana politics ... page 3 
1 
Frank Robinson ... page 5 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Vol. IX No. 27 Friday, October 4, 1974 

Burke contends 
Seminar can be ready for spring 
by Pat Flynn to form a permanent study group like itself as part of· Staff Reporter the Academic Council. "Over the course of last year we met between 50 to 75 
The values seminar for seniors proposed in the hours. At the end of this year I think all of us felt that report of the Committee on the Course of Study, could the issues we were pursuing were absolutely vital to be realized as early as the spring semester of this year, the academic future of the university, and needed according to Dr. William Burke, Assistant Provost. much more probing to be properly resolved," Burke The senior seminar would be a one hour, one semester said. course mandatory for all seniors. The aim of the The Committee on the Course of Study report course, as described in the report, would be to "reflect suggested a number of major ehanges in academic on the values which motivate us and subject them to procedures. Two of these are the addition of "mini­
discursive examination." courses" to the academic curriculum and suggestions 
Burke, Co-chairman of the Committee on the Course for the greater utilization of available educational of Study, based his statement on what he termed the technology in teaching methods. positive nature of the senior seminar proposal. "Other mini-courses proposals in the report do not carry the priority of this proposal." stated Burke. "It would give our seniors a The report defined the mini-course as a full-credit chance to come into contact with the type of decisions academic course held for a fractional part of a they will have to make once they leave the university," semester. The report cited areas of academic need 
that could be served by their adoption in thehe continued. 
According to Burke, if the Academic Council is curriculum. Students would be free to study subjects strongly in support of some proposal it can "move very removed from their main line of interest. Taking quickly." Burke qualified his statement by noting that subjects for only one half of a semester and 1.5 hours 
the Committee on the Course of Study report will most credit would enable students to be more diversified in likely not come up for the first four meetings of the their academic schedules, the report stated. Fresh­Academic Council. "There is still unfinished business asked. "Aimost as important are economic and ad­men and sophomores uncommitted to a particular 
connected with the COUP (Committee on University ministrative considerations; is it cheaper to run the college or department of study would be able to sample Priorities) report, which will probably be taken up university and more efficient with these colleges different majors and courses of study. Juniors and first," he asserted. Burke also pointed out that there is merged?" he continued. seniors would have the opportunity to augment their 
generally a one-month lag in enacting proposals Burke added the committee would have to , study backgrounds in subjects related to their major, without passed by the Academic Council. what effect the merging of the colleges would have on sacrificing elective hours. The mini-courses would On the other hand, Burke did not think the proposal the University's presitge and relations with other also make a popular professors available to a greater to unify the Colleges of Art and Letters and Science universities. cross-section of students, and provide for the could be dealt with in any less than three years. "Such "For example, the College of Science as we presently professors themselves a vehicle for exploring and a broad, wide-ranging decision as this requires in­know it is at least 54 years old. It has a tremendous developing new ideas, the report indicated. depth study. We can not just jump into a proposal such tradition of its students being accepted into and doing He-educational Technology as this," he noted. exceptionally in Ph. D. programs and medical sh­Burke outlined some of the major considerations cools." Burke pointed out, "Do you sacrifice that kind A barrage of suggestions for utilization of new thathe thought needed to be sutdied. "First of all you of tradition and prestige?" technological teaching devices was also presented byhave to look at a proposal of this sort philosophically. Burke stated what he thought was the most im­the report. Closed circuit telev'tsion and vidPO tapeWill merging the Colleges of Arts and Letters and portant development coming out of the Committee on 
(continued on page 9)
"cience help us do a better job of educating?" Burke the Course of Study report--the proposal by the comm 
Qiticized by Dodge 


O'Nell admits releasing wrong CAP report 
what had been said by everyone at programs in a University which Dodge charged O'Neil with said. "The term 'compromise'by Jim Eder those meetings. This document serves a majority of un-committing "a breach of con-suggests a considerable 
Contributing Editor was then reviewed and opening to 1 dergraduates and a minority of fidentiality," disagreement among the CAP changes and a~~itions by. all the graduates," O'Nell revealed. "The CAP should be able to members, which did not take CAP members, he explamed. O'Neil pointed out, however, that operate candidly and openly place," he stated. 
The letter released by Professor ~odge, a former CAP member, "despite expressed trepidations, without fear of exposure. Its O'Nell had used the phrase Carl O'Nelllast Monday was not a said that the passages of the early the CAP indicated that Despres members must feel that they can "compromise unanimity" last copy of the final report sent by the draft that appeared last Monday was an articulate motivated speak at committee meetings Monday in describing how the CAP Committee on Appointments and were not included in the report sent candidate with a h'igh level of without the fear of personal reached its unanimous recom-Promotions to Dean Frederick to Crosson. professional and academic reprisal," Dodge said. mendation of Professor Richard Crosson regarding the selection of "The final draft did not include status." Dodge also criticized O'Neil's Kurtz for chairman. O'Nell had a new chairman for the Deparment those quotes nor the spirit of those "To reiterate " O'Neil em-interpretation of the votes cast by said that the reported UJlWlimous of ~ociology a_nd Anthropology. quotes rega~ding the qualifications phasized, "the co~mittee did not the CAP in determining which approval of Kurtz had come in a 
0 Nell admitted yesterday that of the candidate who was named use the term 'unacceptable' in candidate was to be recommended second vote, which had placed the th~ I.etter he had released_ as the chairman(Leo Despres), " Dodge communicating with the Dean." to the dean. two stronger candidates, as offiCial CAP report submitted to stated. O'Nell had used the Criticizing O'Neil for releasing "I do not understand his notion of determined by the first vote, Crosson last ~ay was actually an pas.sages of the e~rly draft the early draft of the CAP report, Dodge against each other. early, unrev1sed draft of that praising Despres as evidence that **************"~~"'** 
...~•·•.,,...,....,,...,..,....,.,...,..,....,.............,.*********************.._,
report. O'Nell stated that he had the new chairman was not con-mistaken the earlier draft, which sidered unacceptable by the CAP, he himself had written, as the final even though he had been ranked version of the CAP report. last of the four candidates con­
"It was the only document that I sidered. had in my files," O'Neil said. "I O'Neil said that he now has a have since learned that this was copy of the draft from which the due to the fact that there were no actual report to Crosson was carbon copies made of the actual typed, but he will not release it report because of its con-"because my colleagues seem to fidentiality ," he explained. think that it is confidential." He 
Due to its inaccuracies the early did, however, "feel duty bound" to draft was not accepted by the CAP, describe some of the differences according to Professor David between the final letter and the Dodge. "The letter that was earlier draft that he had released. drafted by Professor O'Neil for "The final document expressed signature by the CAP members reservations about Professor was not accurate and therefore Despres' background in terms of was revised," Dodge said coordinating the broad range of yesterday. interests which exists in a joint­
"There were no minutes taken at department such as the one we the CAP meetings when we have," O'Neil stated. discussed the candidates for "Some uncertainty was ex­
chairman," O'Neil said. "Con-pressed over his experience ... ~h Ara Parseghia'n closely su-rveys his Irish players in practice this week. Drills this week'~;~;­
in 
sequently, I drew up the initial terms of giving proper balance to almed at avoiding another upset by adequately preparing for the tough Spartans of Michigan State. 
1 
document based on my memory of graduate and undergraduate 
' 

f 
2 the observer Friday, October 4, 1974 
warld briefs 
HOME <UPil -Premier Mariano Rumor Thursday handed in his rl.'signation to President Giovanni Leone, but Leone asked him to continue in office to help the country get itself out of its current Pconomic and political difficulties. 
lllPil 

Syrian troops, armor and air force Thursday wound up large­scale joint exercises with modern equipm~nt, using fightin~ tactics !Parnl.'d in last October's war. Israel kept Its forces on special alert 
along the Golan Heights cease-fire line during the maneuvers. 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The Soviet Union concluded 10 days of missile tests with a submarine launch of two missiles almost 5,000 miles, the Pentagon reported Thursday. It was believed to have heen the first test of a submarine-launched SNB missile across the northern polar regions into the Pacific. 

an campus taday 
9 am -lecture, abby van buren (dear abby) & marvella bayth, wash. hall. 
10:30 am . 7:30 pm--national conference, reinterpretation of 
american catholic history, jay dolan-philip gleason, coordinators. cce. 
12:15 pm . lecture, "family change in the people's republic of china: myth or reality" byw.tlllu, library faculty lounge. 
3:30 pm -phil. perspectives, "the truth of relativism" by b. 
williams . lib. fac. lounge. 4 pm -seminar, "an extension of macro-economic genral equilibrium" by prof. d. fusfeld, 120 hayes-healy. 5 pm -vespers, evensong, log chapel. 5 pm -vespers, 5 pm -mass & dinner, bulla shed. . 6:30-8:30-registration, circle k fall Issues conference, grace hall. 7,9,& 11 pm -film, "psycho" $1 eng. aud. 7-9 pm -reception, artists, little theatre gallery. 8:45pm -coffeehouse, muse and refreshments, howard hall chapel. 8 pm-play, "look homeward, angel" by nd-smc theatre, o'laughlln. 8:15pm -concert, anne perillo, soprano, & leo michuda, violin, lib. aud. 
9 pm -1 am . coffeehouse, mike armstrong, john salvesou & bruce martin, tessy mchale, tim miller, jumbo choc. chip cookies, $0.10, smc. 
saturday, october S, 1974 9-4 pm -indiana district circle k fall issues conference. 6-11 pm -film, "play misty for me", $1, eng. aud. 7:30pm -soccer, nd. vs. northwestern, cartier field. 7, 8:30, 10, &11 :30 pm-film, charlie chaplin in "gold rush," free, st. ed's hall. 
sunday, october 6, 1974 
12:30.5:30 pm-collection opening, city of south bend's studebaker historical vehicle collection, rear of former studebaker ad. bid., corner lafayette & bronson, 2 2 blks. n. of sample, 1 blk. w. of main. 
4:30 pm -vespers, evenlsong, lady chapel. 
daily 10-5 pm -art exhibit, pre-columbaln art, french art, contemporary graphics, art faculty masterpieces & permanent collection, nd art qallery. 
2-9 pm eugene atget traveling show International museum of 1hotography at geaorge eastman house, moreau main gallery. 2-9 pm-art exhibit, recent drawings, dr. c. a. kelly, c.s.c., ham­nes gallery. 2-9 pm art exhibit, watercolors I. gertrude habart, ptooto gallery. 
Student -Faculty ND-5MC Staff 
$1.:10 

1974-75 Our Ninth Season 
LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGEL 

Oct. 4, 5, 10, 11, 12 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
To ensure equity 
HPC Supports student lawyers 
by Terry Keelan Staff Reporter  Mazza said. Presently the student is represented by a student  "This is particularly im­portant,"Mazza explained, "since  
The HPC voted unanimously to support a proposal for legal representation by law students of students involved in disciplinary cases. The proposal is intended to "ensure equity of procedure" according to John Mazza, last year's student representative on the Appeals Board. The HPC took the action last Tuesday on the recommendation of last year's Appeals Board. The proposal, written by Mazza and Assistant Dean of the Law School Leslie Fascio, last year's faculty representative on the  advocate, who may only be an undergraduate, and is appointed by the Student Body President. According to Mazza, there were often serious discrepancies last year between Macheca 's views of particular cases and those of the students involved. This was partly due to students' lack of awareness about their rights and the nature of the charges against them. In such situations Mazza pointed out many problems in the judicial process could be solved by providing the student with more knowledgeable legal counsel.  a student may face suspension or even expulsion in a major case." Generally, it is hoped by its proponents that the new proposal would provide more fair, viablf? and efficient due process at Notre Dame and enable procedures to run effectively to the benefit of both the Administration and the students. The proposals will be discussed tonight at a meeting at LaForrune. Present will be representatives of Student Government, the HPC, the SLC, the Student Bar Association, and John Mazza.  
Appeals  Board,  would  create  a  
regular student counsel appointed by the Student Bar Association  Sunday Masses  
from  its  membership  and  ap­ 
proved by the Dean of Students. ·'This would provide the student  Main Church  
with  a  more  knowledgeable,  ex­ 
perienced, and effective counsel,"  
5:15 p.m. Sat.  Fr. Robert Griffin CSC  
Conference slated  9:30a.m. Sun. 10:45 a.m. Sun.  Fr. Terry Lally CSC Fr. Patrick Sullivan CSC  
for this weekend  12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. Bill Toohey CSC  
by Bill Flanagan  
Staff Reporter A regional conference of the Education Committee of States for  AT  
Financing Postsecondary Education will be held in the Center for Continuing Education October 4th and 5th. The con­ference, is the second in a series of such conferences. The first con­ference was held during Sep­ STANFORD ENGINEERING  
tember 29 thru October I in San Francisco. Hobert F. Corcoran, head of the  ISthe professional art of applying science  
conference.  explained  that  the  to the optimum conversion of natural resources  
purpose twofold:  of conference was I l they would be looking  to the benefit of man."  
at issue of financing postsecondary  Stanford School of Engineering's wide-ranging graduate programs 
t>ducation  in  a  broad  economic  offer qualified men and women exciting avenues to rewarding,  
context. and 2) they will engage in  satisfying, professional careers.  
the framework step for developing policies for such things as grants,  The Stanford School of Engineering is searching for graduate students from among qualified majors in engineering, mathematics, 
student-assistance programs, etc.  and the sciences.  
The conference business will start today at 9:00 a.m. with an  A representative from the school will be on campus to discuss Stanford's ten engineering departments and interdisciplinary 
address given by  Fr. James  T.  programs, research opportunities, the financial assistance available, 
Burtchaell,  Provost  of  the  and other aspects of engineering at Stanford.  
llniversity of Notre Dame, and by  
Edward  M_ Gramlich,  Senior  •  Wednesday, October 9  
Fellow  of  the  Brookings  In­ Make arrangements to meet him through  
stitution. At 10:30, there will be a panel discussion on Postsecondary  •  Placement Bureau  
Financing  Nt>eds  moderated  by  Or write to  
Dam M. Martin. President of the  •  Stanford School of Engineering, Stanford, California 94305  

Associated Colleges of the Mid-W£'st. During the afternoon session, members will breRk up into workshops, discussing topics such as: Funding l\1l'chanisms; and Models and Techniques. 
On Saturday. there will be various seminars before a 9:00 
a.m. general session. The speaker at this session will be John Rrademas. llnited States Congressman from Indiana. The conference will conclude with the remarks of H.ichard M. Millard, Dirt>ctor of Higher Education St>rvices, Education Commission of the States. 
Corcoran noted that conferences of this type were valuable because they group together most of the major ideas and schools of thought concerned with financing post­secondary education. From this type of meeting, all the members will have a deeper understanding of what to expext in the future, and 
they  can  obtain  a  broad  
assessml'nt  of  information  and  
techniques.  

The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by lhe stuoents of the University of Notre Dame •nd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 


Friday, October 4, 1974 the observer 
Indiana candidates and issues 
by Matt Yokom Staff Reporter 

Students registered for the In­diana election will be able to vote for U.S. Senator and represen­tative and various other state, county and township offices. In addition, students may also vote on three amendments to the Indiana State constitution. 
The most visible race will be for the United States Senate between Democrat incumbant Birch Bayh and the Republican mayor of In­dianapolis, Richard Lugar. A third party candidate for the office is Don L. Lee, running on the American Party of Indiana ticket. 
The only other federal office being sought is that of third district representative. The Democratic incumbant, John Brademas will be challenged by Republican Virginia 
R. Black. 
Voters in the November fifth election will also decide on can­didates vying for five top state 
administrative  offices.  
Democratic incumbant Larry  A.  
Conrad  of  Indianapolis  will  be  

opposed for Secretary of State by Jpffersonville Republican William 
L. Allen III. Democratic Auditor of State, Mary Aikins Currie of Osgood is challenged by Republican Jean C. Merritt of Indianapolis. 
Randall C. Miller, Republican from Michigan City, is running against Democratic incumbant Jack L. New of Greenfield for the Treasurer of State. 

Wilfred J. Mayette, a South Bend Republican seeks to unseat Democrat William E. Voor, Jr. of Mishawaka as Prosecuting At­torney. 
Democrat Billie R. McCullough 
md Republican Pat A. Yoho are running for the office of Clerk of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals. 
Three amendments to the In­diana Constitution are also on the ballot. The first question is "Shall Section 19 of Article four of the Constitution of the state of Indiana be amended to read as follows: 'An act, except an act for the codification, revision, or rearrangement of laws, shall be confined to one subject and mat­ters properly connected therewith?"' 
The second question asks if the state constitution should be amended to provide that "can­didates for Governor and Lieutenant Governor run for election jointly so that a vote cast for one is a vote cast for the other, and to provide for the selection for a Governor and Lieutenant Governor in the event of a tie vote in a general election?" 
The final constitutional question is whether of not the militia shall consist of all persons over age seventeen (except those persons exempted by law), that the militia be divided into active and inactive classes, and that certain other specified changes be made con­cerning the militia?" This is mainly a housekeeping bill but notably the present phrase in the constitution, "all able-bodied males between eighteen and fourty-five years of age," would be 
By Ford and advisers 



Anti-inflation progran1 discussed 
WASHINGTON (UP!) President Ford, apparently at odds with his top energy policy adviser over the merits of a gasoline tax boost, Thursday brought his key economic advisers together for the third time this week to help draft the administration's long-awaited anti-inflation program. 
White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen said Ford had made some "tentative choices" on what should be included in the economic package, expect­ed to be announced in a speech to a joint session of Congress Tuesday afternoon. 
But Nessen said Ford "does 
not favor" a plan to boost the 
federal tax on retail sales of 
gasoline as a means of raising 
revenue to balance the budget 
and making it more costly to 
drive and thus encouraging 
energy conservation. 
Rep. Bill Archer, D-Tex., said 
Ford told a group of congress­
men Wednesday night that he 
was adamantly opposed to an 
increase in the tax on gasoline, 
and statements he was consid­
ering such a move were made 
without his authority. 
Archer, one of five congress­
men at a stag dinner at the 
White House, said Ford told the 
group that he definitely would 
ask for no increase in the gas 
tax when he sends his economic 

1723 SOUTH BEND AVE 
SPECAI. 

ca.LECTCRS ITEM 
.D.-ALABAMA 
SUGAR  BOWL  
MUGS  
$ 1.2 5  EACH  
6  FOR  $7.0 0  

recommendations to Congress. 

On Wednesday, federal ener­gy chief John C. Sawhill outlined a complex plan com­bining a 20-cent-a-gallon gaso­line tax hike with a tax rebate for motorists who kept their mileage to a minimum. 
Asked about the apparent rift between the two men, Nessen told reporters, "This is an open administration and people are free to say what they want." 
The press aide added that despite his distaste for a gas tax hike, which could have an unpleasant political backlash at a time when Ford is trying to whip up support for Republi­cans in the fall congressional 
elections,  the  President main­ 
tained  an  "open  mind"  on  the  
subject.  

This indicated that he might 
reluctantly approve the plan if convinced by his economic advisers that it was in the nation's best interests. 
Meanwhile, Ford and his economic brain trust met again to consider various anti-infla­tion proposals, many of them put forward at last weekend's economic summit conference. The President has cut down his official appointments and will spend "virtually the entire weekend" juggling his options. 
"The President has made some tentative choices among those options and I emphasize the tentative," Nessen told reporters. "There are no final decisions made." 
Next week's speech will include international economic as well •as domestic economic actions, Nessen said. 
changed to "all persons over age seventeen. This, presumably, includes females. 
The ballot also asks whether or not Justices Norman F. Arterburn and Richard M. Givan shall be retained in the Supreme Court of Indiana. Robert H. Staton is also up for review as a Judge of the Court of Appeals of Indiana. St. Joseph County Superior Court Judges Douglas D. Seely, Jr. and 
E. Spencer Walton, are also seeking additional terms. 
Notre Dame is in the state representative district nine which is now represented by Republicans Robert J. DuComb, Jr. and Richard Lee Lindsey. They are opposed by Democrats Elizabeth Ann Bouer and Richard Clay Bodine. 
The campus is also included in State Senate District eleven. Democratic candidate Robert L. Kovach faces Republican William 
D. Bontrager. 

County offices of sheriff, auditor, and assessor are being contested in the November election. Campus voters may also elect a county commissioner from district one and a county councilman from district A, according to govern­ment professor John A. Kromkowski. Portage Township, which includes Notre Dame, has only Democratic candidates listed for the offices of township assessor, justices of the peace in division I and II, and constables in divisions I and II. Only the position of township trustee and the three openings on the township advisory board have eandidates from both parties. 
WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wc1wasee. Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189 


OF SOUTH BEND 
PRESENTS FOR YOUR ENTERTAINMENT & PLEASURE 
'FREE AND EASY' 

6 NIGHTS A WEEK 
ENTERTAINMENT SUNDAY 8~3). ll::J) AU;() 'IUSDAY 'IHROUiH SA1tJRDAY 

FOR INFOR.MADON CAlL 272-523) 




GIRLS ONLY: 
KEENAN HALL ARMORY PARTY 
AT LAUGHIN PLACE STABLES, MICH. 
FRI. OCT 4th 
Hay Ride Bon Fire 
Swimming MUSIC PROVIDED BY TAI.ISN\AN 
Bus Wll Leave Stepan at 7:30 pm md Every 1-bur on the Hour. 
CHECK WITH YOUR HALL PRESIDENT FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. 
the observer Friday, October 4, 1974 
...... 

0-C students victims of break-ins 
by Gregg Hangs 


Staff Bc>lllll'tt-r 

place while all but one of the 
A teenager asking for directions residents were gone. "We were early in the evening followed by down on campus watching the what was thought to be a dog's Monday night football game and harmless romping turned out to be only one of us was home" CB:sey more than mere coincidence for explained. "Earlyin the evemng, seniors1 Larry Casey and Tom a young black kid knocked on the Brett. The next day, Casey dis­door and said he just 'wanted to see residents that his $140 tape deck, a if anybody was around.' he $20 toaster and $10 worth of beer continued. had been stolen from his house at "Later that night, my roomate 526 North Allen Street. heard some rumblings which he 
The September 30 burglary took attributed to our young dog, who 
Controversy continues 
over SMC mace incident 
h.' Tht•n•sa Stt-wart Staff Bt•pm·tt-r 

tenants getting ripped off, so it seems like there are one group of burglars working in the general area. He <Flynn) thinks that in­stead of spreading the police force alloverthe place, they should spend one week or so concentrating on a certiun area, that way, you can work on getting one group at a time." he stated. 
Casey had not thought of telling anybody about what happened until recently. "I saw the Petrovick story and I decided to tell somebody about what's been hapening to us," he explained."It's gotten to the point that I no longer feel safe in my own house. God, it's bad enough being ripped off, but a lot worse could happen." 
"Imagine catching a burglar in a house that he's not familiar with? He'll do anything to get out, in­cluding wrecking your house and you. Our personal health is de fin tely threatened," Casey observed. 
Casey thought the University should pay more attention to the safety of the off-campus student instead of "trying to bust kids for drinking and breaking parietals." He added, "off-campus students need a good insurance plan." 
"It's the most feasible thing to do" Casey commented. "Instead of devoting a half -effort to projects such as the food co~p. the University should shift their concern todealingwith individual's needs. Right now my concern is for the safety of off-campus students and I think it should be the University's concern too." 
tends to wander around and turn garbage cans over at night. But it ' turned out that we were getting ripped off. Nobody realized anything was stolen till the next day." Casey said. 
"I was called out of class and told 
about it." he continued. 

Casey related this is not the only time this blue car has been seen around the house. "One day this kid came up to our house and asked if the Davises lived here. He said he was a friend of theirs. I replied that the Davises lived next door. Anyway, the Davis family was out on their front lawn and he promp­tly walked right by them and got in the same blue carl told you about earlier and drove off. He didn't know the Davises from a hole in~ wall. I got the blue car's lisence number a_nd reported it to the police. The cops said they woul,d keep an eye on them and that s about all that we have heard from the cops." 

Friday, October 4, 1974 the observer 
5 





Frank Robinson appointed as baseball's first black ~nanager 
CLEVELAND <UPI) Frank Robinson became the first black manager in base­ball's 105-year history Thurs­day, and the highest paid manager as well when he was named playing manager of the Cleveland Indians. 
Robinson, who signed a one­year contract and will receive the same $173,000 next season he is getting now as a player with the Indians, was complete­ly composed during a heavily­attended news conference. He said he felt he was being given the job "because of my ability and not because of the color of my skin." 
"The only reason I am the first black manager in the major leagues is that I happen to have been born black," said the 39-year-old Robinson, only man ever to win the Most Valuable Player award in both the National and American Leagues. 
"I want to be judged by our 

InPIRG president outlines investigationsfor semeste 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 

Joe Shickich, InPIRG President, outlined yesterday six in­vestigations being organized and developed by his organization this semester. Students willing to help with the surveys are asked to contact the InPIRG office at 7668 on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Shickich said a grocery pricing survey, under Blaise Mer­candante, will compare costs of standard items (not necessarily food l at 10 of 24 South Bend supermarkets. "We're using computer programming to com­pile information needed for comparison of prices in stores close to campus," stated Frank Musica, InPIRG office manager. 
"It was done twice last year in conjunction with Student Govern­ment. This year, prices will be checked and published bi-weekly to keep up with changing prices," Musica said. "We haven't had too many students volunteering to help out with the survey, probably because not all students have cars." 
Musica planned to ask the Ladies 
of Notre Dame yesterday af­·ternoon to help with listing the stores' prices. If enough people respond he hopes to expand the program to cover more than the 
ten closest stores. 
Andy Burner is setting up a 
movement to lobby for a small 
claims court system in South Bend. 
The city now operates on a justice 
of the peac.e system in which 
defe~d~nts ne_ed to hire a lawyer· 
Sh1ck1Ch sa1d anyone would be 
t:~:::;:~:~::::::::«!:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~8~:::::~:~:::::::::::::~~:!:?.?.?.?.!~~====~======~:.:::::::~~=: 
~~~t ID~r QJ:nlnnial -~ll~ 
I p
.... Jlanrakr 1Jinusr ..~ 
i==~=::,=·=j=·= "Enjoy a snack or dinner" ~·


:!=.;·;.:.1==·~_1=.,:~::

~======~============================================:::==========~===================:::::==• .. 
I t~:::."~;,::;,;::.~~::,:~~J I 
~::: U.S. 31 ( Dixieway) North Your Host :!:!: ~=::(Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, ND '50 ::::: ~~==~=::::::::::::::::=:::-;:::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::~;::!;:;:~!;":;:;:;:;:;:;:;~~=~==~:::::::::::!:::::::::~:::::::::::::=:=:~:;:::-dl 
play on the field," he said after his appointment to succeed Ken Aspromonte, who was fired. 
The Indians finished fourth in the American League East this season with a 77-85 record, their best winning percentage in six years. 
President Gerald Ford sent Robinson a congratulatory wire stating the appointment was "welcome news not only for the Indians, the American League and all of baseball, but also for baseball fans across the na­tion." 
Attending the news confer­ence were Baseball Commis­sioner Bowie Kuhn and American League President Lee MacPhail. 
Mrs. Jackie Robinson, whose husband -no relation to Frank -broke the color barrier in major league baseball as a player in 1947, was also on hand and called Robinson's appointment "significant and highly commendable." 
able to handle his own case in a small claims court which limits itself to small matters under $500, such as enforcement of contracts, landlord-tenant cases or payments of goods and services. 
shickich noted that there is a small claims court system in Bloomington which seems to be working quite well. However, it is not clear how an Indiana city can have one, so he sent a letter yesterday asking why they are able to operate a small claims court in this state. Shickich said, "It would cost $6 to file a suit in a small claims court in Bloomington compared to $50 to $100 to file for an identical suit in South Bend." Therefore, students are needed to lobby to convince local representatives to vote in favor of it. 
Lisa Molidor is compiling a list 
of doctors in the South Bend area, 
including their office hours, 
educational background, the 
hospitals they use and other 
related information. Since it 
requires a good deal of time to 
collect this data from several 
different sources and question­
naires must be sent to the doctors, 
Molidor said, the list will not be 
available to students until second 
semester. 
Various members are doing 
preliminary research on what, if 
anything, is being done about 
discrimination against mental 
patients in South Bend. For 
example, people can be committed 
to institutions by relatives without 
establishing mental illness. 
Students are also investigating funeral homes in Bloomington and 

The new Cleveland manager said, "If I had one wish that could be granted right now, this 
is  it-that  Jackie  Robinson  
would  be  here  to  see  this  
happen today.  

"I hope that baseball people are saying, 'here he is, that's it. I think I have been hired here because of my ability and not because of the color of my skin. 
"I expect the most difficult part of the job to be getting to know my players. Not knowing their abilities-! know that already, from playing with them and against them. But getting to know them as people. Learning what makes them tick, how to get that something extra out of them-or what makes them slow down. 
"I 'hope they'll feel they can come to me and think of me as a pal," he said. "I'm not going to demand respect but I want to be close to them. It's a very thin line." 
South Bend. There is a law requiring mortuaries to offer low­cost funerals (from $175 to $200) but it is possible that some owners bait people into more expensive ceremonies. Shickich stated tbt since the Federal Trade Com­mission has done work on this field in other cities, InPIRG will use their work as an example to follow. 
In November, InPIRG will analyze the effectiveness of the Federal Trade Commission in inspecting toys for safety. This program will cover Bloomington, Indianapolis, Richmond and South Bend during the pre-Christmas season. 
Shickich also announced the possibility of a sex discrimination survey for next semester. 
74 

fi(IIIAY OCTDliER II S-11,, Sl#1flliDIJY IJC1Qillll IJUII••mifllllfAt 
i'ti!.il!:li U!.'SACE lfliSH FOlK I'JAI'ICii'IIO OFLL.Y IJ>Atf(:lMG ll!.AGK Af\T$ D:iPLAV' 

c«E£K, UKilANII#<N Ftl&.lft I!AMCIMG 
KARA'II' lll:IIIOII$TI!ATiCIN 
GllliRAAAM U IE!'! QARIIIE'JIS. 

f'()L!SH, H\INCARii\W I'm..~€ Mlitt:iMC 
DAI\CiMC. I.INDE<R 'UU: S"l'd$ KICHTL'i fii.0!1 7•U Piol 
THE CIVIC MINDED SHOPPING CENTER 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STLIOFNT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Fred Graver 
MarleneZiou
Editorial Editor 

MaMglng Editor 
Bob Zogas Terry Keeney Bob McManus Business Man<:ger News EdHOr 
Advertising Ma...,... 
Friday, October 4, 1974 
~~--------------------------­
No Communication 
Communication does not exist between surface from within the universtiy. But anyone at Notre Dame. besides the letter's page of this A sad commentary, an unfortunate newspaper, where else can they be commentary, a tragic commentary-but really taken? The stock answer: the most of all, it is a profound commentary proper channels. Are there really proper on the state of this university. channels for communicating these If only each administrator, professor feelings? Is a student's complaint, that is and student could make known the submitted to Student Affairs on Monday
barest sketch of their thoughts or actions, and then filed on Tuesday, the properthe potential for accomplishment would channel? increase 100 per cent. Presently, any Is it an extensive faculty committee percentage for change is zero. And it is report that is published and then simply because, no one knows or is even distributed only to be lost by those under 
willing to let it be known, what the hell is that shiny golden dome? 
going on. Or perhaps it is within the very pagesThis situation exists between ad­you hold now, which is only about to dent ministrators and faculty, student and any issues because of the "no comments" 
administrator, administrator and office. or "that is so and so's responsibility."There are offices separated by a few Exactly who knows the proper but doors whose occupants never know or defunct channels of communication? care to know what the others are doing. Exactly who cares? Even if such an interest existed, they There appears to be no one. So might as well try sending smoke signals everyone lay back, take it easy; October than search for the formal means of break is only three weeks away. Let the intra-university communication. For professors chatter until they are blue in quite frankly, there isn't any. the face about raising their means of 
Consider the past week for instance. existence, those offices in the Ad­Attempts to locate reasons for the con­ministration building will get done. And 
troversy over last year's selection of a no matter if renovation on the LaFortune new sociology department chairman, STUDENT Center remains incomplete;find administrators and faculty alike we can all ride the bus up to Michigan and 
barely able to link facts about the case if have a grand time. one or the other were not directly in­But remember, let's not tell everyone. volved. What they don't know won't hurt them. 
The failings of coeducation again Tom Drape 
" """"'""''""'(lllll~~i~ii~~~~;~ll~ll~ll~lll~ll~lll~ll~ll~lll~ll~ll~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
which in turn might impede the productiveness of the Department. Despite expressed trepidations, 

the CAP indicated that Despres was an articulate, motivated candidate with a high level of professional ane academic status. To reiterate, the committee did not use the term "unacceptable" in 
circumstances, the nature of the communicating with the Dean. discrepancies between the final It is my firm opinion that theCiarification form and the earlier form of the decision made by the Ad­
document. ministration, despite the awk­
wardness with which it was
The vote tally was modified, by
Dear Editor: group consensus, when one carried out, and the discomfort it 
has produced for many of us, in
member declared that he intended 
I believe that my statement to to abstain in voting for two of the and out of the Department, was a Tht• Observt>r (Monday, Sep-candidates. He had at the time of sound and academically defensible !ember :JO) indicating the cause of the vote believed that the vote was decision. Furthermore, I feel quite my resignation from a Depart-a forced ranking of all candidates, convinced that whatever else it mental CAP is quite clear. My which it was not. This abstention may represent, the problem is not statement was prompted by a affected none of the first, second or one that constitutes a case of story which appeared on Friday, third-place votes for any of the religious bias. I believe that to September 27, the thrust and tone candidates. make a test case of religious bias of which was derogatory to our The final document, expressed out of this issue would be an un­current Departmental Chairman, reservations about Professor fortunate and futile gesture. and which by implication Despres' background in terms of The merits of the decision can presented a distorted view of my coordinating the broad range of rest solidly on academic and reasons for resignation. interests which exists in a joint professional questions pertaining 
While the points, which I at-department such as the one we to such decisions by ad­tempted to clarify in my interview have. Somt! uncertainty was ex­ministrators in any institution of essentially stand as they were, I pressed over his experience in higher learning. wish at this time to clarify some terms of giving proper balance to If, there is any lesson to be inaccuracies concerning the CAP graduate and undergraduate learned in the bitter experiences statement to the Dean. The programs in a University which many of us have undergone, I think communication cited in my in-serves a majority of un­it is simply that for both faculty terview with The Observer, dergraduates and a m.inority of and Administration we must work regrettably and through error, was graduates. Dr. Despres' most more closely with one another, an early draft of the document recent experiences were in a without suspicion and without which was being prepared for the graduate-oriented, non-liberal arts rancor, to establish functional Dean. My colleagues, who served university. Fear was expressed avenues of communication from with me on that committee, .are · that Despres might, because of which we all stand to benefit. reluctant to release the fm~l assertive personality, impede document, and I share theu ·effective interpersonal relation­Sincerely yours, reluctance. Howev~r, I feel duty ships within the Department, and Carl W. O'Neil bound to sketch out, m as accurate perhaps deal with the Ad­Associate Professor 
Sociology and Anthropologya way as is possible under the ministration in an aggressive way, 
off-campus: changes 
and challenges 

bob iohnson 
My experiences in the first month living off-campus have given me a chance to re-evaluate my college life and my views of the university. As well as provide some insight into what independence means. The effects of living in a different social setting other than a dorm does not stike me until after I had been in the apartment for a week. It was then I realized the importance of my decision to move off-campus. Life had been pleasant in the dorm but the need for a change and a challenge prompted reconsideration of a fourth yejlr Qf on-campus living. Living off-campus is quite a change and challenge -social, academic, and culinary -are being met everyday. 
I think I can casually observe my experience of both styles of living and the difference between them. Off-campus living is more demanding primarily because it creates more responsibility. The luxuries of on-campus living -prepared meals, laundry service, proximity and accessibility to campus events -are not available to the off-campus student. I am now responsible for cooking my own meals, doing my laundry, and getting to campus. I don't want to make these examples appear overly burdensome because they aren't. In fact, I find them very novel. I had never done any major cooking. If I had to eat, well, it was a choice between tuna fish and McDonalds. Cooking is fun, at least it is so far. It's a challenge to see if recipes will turn out successfully. Fortunately for myself and especially my housemates , they have. The on-campus student eats whatever is prepared for the day, maybe with some reluc­tance. While on-campus, I found I could live with the laundry's mistakes and learned not to put items of value or of questionable washing instructions down the chute. I haven't shrunk any clothes yet, but I still approach the machine with some apprehension. 
Getting off-campus for a movie downtown was always a great lift in spirits. After spending an extended amount of time on-campus, I felt very confined. Seeing the dome from a distance was very refreshing. I don't spend lots of time on-campus now but I feel much more comfortable while there. I feel different-now divorced or separated but loosely l'lttached. I have come to campus everyday but I also have to leave everynight. This attachment allows me to act outside certain University regulations such as parietals and alcohol. Parties will no longer be interrupted or disbanded .. University enforcement of alcohol policy will not effect me although I will be under the direct jurisdiction of Indiana state law. Hence, the responsibility of living off-campus becomes more community-orientated. I must act in accordance with those laws and since Notre Dame is an important part of South Bend, in manners not detrimental to the role of the university living off­campus affords me plenty of freedeom in action. Hopefully I can be wise in acting and making decisions. 
One more responsibility of interest is academic. Some friends of mine claim off-campus living increases academic performance. For example, two friends in Vermont say their grade points jumped to 4.0 in their first semester off-campus but theyneversaid anything about their second semester. This theory is being seriously challenged this year. So far, experience is crushing theory. But that is of little concern to those more interested in cleaning a house, washing clothes, or making spaghetti. I guess Ijusthave to arrange my priorities. 
Living off-campus is fun. I'm glad I moved in order to challenge my values of responsibility and independence and to prepare myself for ling alone. I'm learning to budget time more and more effectively although my housemates might contend differently. I'm learningmorepractical experience than I had previously known or attempted. My day is always busy. There's no lack for things to do. Accepting the challenges of responsiblity and independence is the education for this year. 

--~-~-~-----------------------------------------------~ 
7

Friday, October 4, 1974 the observer 

Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 
an october singing of the september song 
r•v•rend rabert IJriffin 
On Monday evening, October 7, two Person <relatively speaking, that is. Father lonely, where a campus minister can trap time at all, I will be fifty (but not yet; not on landmark events will be occurring in the life Ted, for one, keeps later hours when he's souls preferring to be left alone, or where an October 7). With the years piling on me, I of the University Chaplain. First, I will home, and probably when he's abroad. aging man needing love himself can replace have begun singing the "September Song": have just completed celebrating my most Sleeplessness makes men great.) of Notre the night-candles with companionship. But, 
recent birthday. Second, I will become the Dame. For a number of years now, I have by God, friendship will be offered as an The days dwindle down 
chief custodian of the coffee pot in an all­felt like a prince of darkness, though option, along with the coffee and doughnuts To a precious few ... Sep­night trysting spot called Darby's Place hopefully my connections are with the of the joint, as a service of the management. tember ... November ... (Chez Darby), in the basement of the angels of light. Even in New York City, I try I haven't got time for the waiting game ... " Student Center, from 12:00 midnight to 4:30 to maintain a night ministry to the street Someday, I must begin a project left a.m., Monday through Thursday. people, though the question may be asked untouched by the intensity of the pastoral If I live to be seventy five, I will know it 
Concerning my birthday: like other whether the street people are not serving as and personal emotions. But I would not was too soon to sing "The September Song" disguise the fact that Darby's Place is, for on the birthdays before fifty. But heaven me, more than a casual adventure in makes no promises of old age, nor even of a hospitality. Yet a coffee house operating in single other useful moment of life. We the hours after midnight will surely serve celebrate birthdays, keeping them no many different needs of its patrons. A secret. If we were suc:cessful, and nobody student may go there to escape his room­really remembered we were the birthday mate's snoring. Misanthropes may go there child, we would feel sad and terribly alone. to find someone to scowl at. English majors Our existence would seem important to may go there to be alone with those nobody, except maybe our mother who Romantic solitaries, Keats and Shelley. would never forget to send a card. We 
decent folk, I used to play the game of "I've night ministers to me. One need I have­Lovers may go there to find Eden in the simply haven't got time for the waiting Got a Secret" each year on October 7, as though I am not always faithful to it-is with other's eyes. Hemingway wrote of the need game. If there comes a year when there are though it were immodest to admit one's me more strongly and consistently, it of clean, well-lighted places where old men never to be any more birthdays, we want to right to celebrate his own existence on a day almost seems, than the desires of hunger or could drink with dignity in the face of nada. have said, "Oh, world, it has been lovely!" belonging exclusively to one's self. There thirst or sleep or the gentle nudgings of Old men and young maidens, young men In September, we do not know how early or are, after all, many birthdays worthy of sexuality. It is the need to be useful. It and old dolls, whether euphoric or late our December may come, we work on observation in a year, but they all belong to drives me frantic to know that there are despairing or simply surviving without after darkness, hoping all our birthdays somebody else. Christmas belongs to the people living within walking distance of my incident are welcome to Darby's Place. An may be a celebration of the ways in which Lord as His birthday; Pentecost belongs to room who are lonely, afraid, despairing, old-night coffee house must be many things the world has been lovely today. the Church as its birthday, and February 12 distressed, or confused, when it is possible to many people. 
I look forward to October 7, when I can
is claimed by Republicans for their tainted in some small degree that my friendship party's solitary boast. One's birthday is his could comfort their loneliness; my faith celebrate my nativity, and that of a friend, 
own special joy; that day belongs to the could quiet their fears; my hope could On October 7, I will celebrate the begin­Dick Conyers. If I must share a birthday, ning of another year of life. In almost no I'm glad it is with someone like him.
celebrant as his personal Christmas, his relieve their desperation, my peace could private Pentecost, when he's willing to be lessen their stresses, my experience could the boast of anybody 's party, tainted or not. help bring order to their hearts and minds. Imagine my chagrin, then, last year, when I (I am not a wonder-worker, but it helps to be had to share a birthday with my own human.) Yet, despite their sufferings and when the autumn weather turns assistant rector, Fr. Dick Conyers. my anxiety to be a comforter, we live as (Whether he was chagrined, he didn't say .l strangers in the same town. A phone call Now, this year, as the rector of Keenan and could make us friends; a walk would allow the leaves to flame, my liege-lord, he'll get the Cake. But in my us to touch the other's life; a conversation heart, I'll still know it's my own exclusvie begun in anguish could end in laughter. day, with a glory that is loaned, but not pre­
i haven't got time for the 
empted by anybody. That is why a Darby's Place is, for me, the As for the other event, the opening of best of birthday gifts. It is a neutral ground Darby's Place (so named by the Om­where strangers can become friends, not 
waiting game
budsman, Bill McClain), it represents a just to me, but more importantly, to one dream-come-true for the Senior Night another. It is not just a crash pad for the 
; 

a letter to Griff 
by eugene f. diamond, m.d. 
Introductory Note to Dr. Diamond's Letter: "journeying into life" as Father Griffin an unwanted pregnancy is avoided in such a chastity). She is more a victim of her own Two weeks ago, I wrote an article about suggest; they were in fact, alive and part of statement. The vast majority of unwanted self destructive acting-out than her parent's saying Mass for a Right-to-life group at the the continum of life at some microscopic, pregnancies result in the birth of cherished indifference and the request for abortion is a 
Grotto this month. Dr. Diamond, father of embryonic, or fully developed stage in that children (even among women who request cry for help.three ND students and one alumnus, continum. Their beauty was discarded as abortion and are turned down). There are It is because abortion is so often the responded with the following letter ad­surely as if they were children killed at play. countless protential adoptive parents, who consequence of uninformed consent,dressed to his daughter. At the request of his Their hope is unfulfilled as surely as if they will never have a child to cherish in today's calloused commercial victimization and the 
children, I have asked The Observer to were young men dying in war; their fullness climate. The solution to unwanted children most poignant kind of despair, that I simply publish it. Dr. Diamond is a kindly, is emptied as surely as if they were public is not to destroy the child who is unwanted agonize over the choice of rhetoric Father Christian compassionate man. I only wish figures shot down by an assassin. Please but to destroy the occasions for unwanting. Griffin employs in his description of the we could always agree. mourn the fact that they were so rudely Father Griffin's case history is touching abortion decision as an act of faith and Robert Griffin, C.S.C. deflected from a world they will never but it is, I am convinced, medically courage which insists "that heaven receive 
inherit, because in your mourning you will anachronistic. Abortion, in this day and back its own best gifts."
help restore values to the society that age, does not save anyone's life and does not Don't allow anyone to tell you and the Dear Mary, countenanced their death. cure anyone's illness. The risks of con­other students that you may not pray for and I share your disappointment in Father In suggesting that the Mass be said in­tinuing a pregnancy rarely exceeds the with and to slaughter'ed unborn children 
Griffin's response to your request for a stead for parents who have chosen or now risks of terminating a pregnancy. I have unless you have taken a loyalty oath to all Mass during Respect Life Month. All are considering abortion, Father Griffin compassion for the couple driven to such a other important issues raised by poverty,Christian Churches, not just Catholics, helps to perpetuate the cruelest calumny choice and I concur in their receiving the ignorance, war or even the trials of honor among their saints those other against those who oppose abortion because most compassionate of post-abortion parenthood. Abortion is not only an evil Slaughtered Innocents who died for a God this calumny is the implication that those counselling. This does not alter the medical unto itself but as every day's experiencewhose name they had never even heard. In who value the unborn child must, in the reality, however, that abortion causes more amply demonstrates, it is an evil which commemorating their deaths, we do not process, cease to value the parents. In death and illnness than it could ever hope to gives rise to the attendant evils of the hope to augment their standing in God's developing this rationale, Father Griffin, I ameliorate. It is because of the risks of the cheapening of the. lives of the deformed, the eyes (for they must surely be among His am afraid, resorts to all of the old banalities, procedure that Father Griffin's little aged, the mentally incompetent and the most cherished creatures) but rather to cliches of the social engineers and the anti­vignette about the "pretty girl" whose terminally ill. honor the value that Herod discarded in natalist reformers. Fortunately, you know abortion causes her "troubles to be over, killing them for political purposes. that your mother and I have spent the last without complication," is so inappropriate. Itis most appropriate that at least this one 
Rather than the "sentimental, futile four years in a Birthright organization The story helps to perpetuate the fiction that Mass be devoted exclusively to the victims gesture" which Father Griffin suspects a dealing with 20,000 distressed pregnant unwed pregnancy results from con­of abortion. In 1offerin~t the Mass as your Mass for unborn innocents might become, women and you know that it is because of traceptive failure. ("She just forgot one day representative Father Griffin dramatically such a Mass would, in fact, be a public ·this rather than despite this experience that to get her prescription filled''). Anyone who proves that he has the generosity to exercise witness on behalf of the sanctity of life in a we oppose abortion. It is because of the tries daily to unravel the complex a fatherhood. He becomes a father not only society now so thoroughly permeated by a exploitation and cruelties visited on parents motivation for pregnancy out of wedlock to the little girl whose smile charms him and concern merely for life's quality or, worse that we abhor this procedure which also will recognize this explanation as simplistic the urchin whose antics amuse him but he yet, its utility. I hope, however, that you will destroys the unborn life. nonsense. No one wants to condemn her. also becomes a father to his daughter, the not merely witness a principle but that you Abortion is never, as Father Griffin says, <We might more appropriately concemn the embryo and his son the fetus. will in addition, mourn for persons. Those "a choice preferable to the birth of an un­campus counselor who offered her a children (and I use this term advisedly) who wanted child." The most fundamental prescription for pills instead of an un­Love, were destroyed by abortion were not distinction between an unwanted child and derstanding of the positive values of Dad 

days dwindle down to a precious few 



the observer Friday, October 4, 1974 
.............................................. Women want recognition : 1\mCHIGAN STREET :

i ADULT THFATRES



Coeducation: challenge at ND 
: X 2 f1LJ.V5 : 
b~· J)pnnis Kelly the success of it. Often, however, made.'' • • Staff Rt>porter statistics are misquoted, facts are However, some students have misconstrued, and hostilities not been so pleased. As graduate : X BOacsrcH: : 
Tht> question of how well commence. student Marie DiSabatino, a • • coPducation is working is one The hard fact: out of a total member of the Counseling Center ! X LIVE FLCXE SHOW : which has causedcontroversy at enrollment of 6600, 1120 are women staff, put it: "Women wanted to be Notrt Dame. Indeed, a running war -17 percent of the student body. If recognized as people; men would between males and females on the one studies in the College of not recognize Notre Dame women E 1316 SOUfH MICHIGAN STREET ! pages of this newspaper has Engineering, he finds the ratio in the way they wanted to be." brought an indictment against worse: 50 women to 733 men. A The problem of women at Notre ! CALL 282-120~ fnR INfnDAAAI'InN: 
coPducation as it now exists. long-time advocate of coeducation, Dame has not been confined to •••••••••••••••••••~'••..,••• ......)';l'•zm .-M~~.. 
Any of several factors contribute Sr. John Miriam Jones, com­students. Two statistics assert************************************* to arguments against coeducation. mented, "We have come a long this: one, that out of a total faculty ~ : A disproportionate number of men way in two years. It is unreal to of over 700, women hold only 34 * In ~aekSOft * to women. historical bias, believe that two years have turned teaching positions; and two, in an * -* frustration with the social climate around 130 years of tradition...but I establishment where almost half of~ Coneert ...-. ~~ * and loneliness all seem to lend find a lot of young women the 2400 full-time positions are .Jt ~,!!•ve * themselves to arguments against delighted with the progress 
(continued on page 11): 





"> : 
Wo.menS dorms to be unlocked: : 
* *
* * 
In Barh Bo~ tan 1\ p.m. The "open door" t'X­l',arley Hall rectress Sr. Jean *: * periment has been undertaken by Lmz stated yesterday that no * * th(' n'sidence halls with the ap­problems have yet arisen with the * * 
.\II 1\nnwn's dorms are now proval of Campus Security and the new policy and all reactions she * : 
lll'ing It·ft unlockPd from noon until llniversity office. has n'ceived have been favorable. ~ * '"As it is on a trial basis, only the * ~ futurr 1•·i\l tell us how successful it * * will br," Lmz added. * * 
IIPlen Gallagher. Badin Hall * : rectrl'ss. said people often react * Jt aginst the Detex system without : * rl'alizing its purpose. "The * * pn•sent Detex system is one way of * * controlling who gets into the dorms * * and II 1\"(lU)d he inadvisable to do * SAT. OCT. 26 a·3o pM : 
away with them," Gallagher * . . . * statPd * * Tlw IH'Pd is for a system t~at ~ NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC AND * 
halanc(•s sPeurity measures w1th * CONVOCATION CENTER * <H'rPssihility for residents, * * (;;J)IaghPr nhsPrved. * Ticket Prices: Tickets on sale: : 
Assistant PrO\'OSt Sr . .John: BleacherS(Iront&rearslage) .• $5.00 NOTRE DAlE, A.C.C.Mon.-Sar.9ta5 * 1\liriam .JonPs said the Detex Lowerarena(rearstage) ••.. $&.50 Robertson'SSautt.Bend&Canc<><dMall * systPms havP been successful in 1 Floor -------------------S1·50 St Joseph Bank 
....-Loge •••..•••..••••••... $7.50 • and bmn<he• * 
buildings loratPd close to public * Platforms ---------------$7.50 First BankMaonalforeanlr * roads as wt'II as the women's * Lower ••• (front stoge) ••• _$7.50 Elkhart Truth * dorms. "'ThP Detex system is a * * security nH'asun• not for Pxclusion * * of on-campus studPnts. but instead *¥¥11-JfJfli-Jf.Jf.Jf.Jf!fJf¥¥¥¥¥-JfJfJf.JfJf ¥¥11-¥¥-+¥-Jf¥¥-Jf¥¥-4. to pn•vPnt non-campus pPople 
' _,_

from ha1·ing 1•asy arcess to the 
~,.

halls." 
' OnJ~· doors l!sPd most frequently ' 
-~··\.

With the "open door" experiment in effect, Detex cards are no ' ~ 
in thP afiPrnoons will he left longer necessary to enter a women's dorm between noon and 6 p.m. 
unlockl'd. 

(Staff photo by Paul Joyce) 


Ai Razzano Dennis Chiddister Agent Agent 

'l~arat_ kr v~ar, s~m~st~r I after s~mcst~r. th~ ( 'oii~~~Mast~r" from Fid~litv Union I..ife has lx-cn ttl~ most accepted, most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidclitv Union ('oil~~~ lVI aster Terry Billger Field Associate Agent 

m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
Phil Teah Agent 


·Dave WiH 
Agent 
\ 
\_ 



I'm thinking of taking a driv.e-away home for break, is there a drive away service in the area? 
You can get a drive away from The Wilson Drive Away in Chicago 
(312) 236-0445. They do have a campus representative, Jim Scott, who lives in 611 Grace and can be reached at 1694. To use a drive away you have to be 18 and own a valid driver's license. They require a deposit ranging from $50.00 to $150.00 and you h~ve to pay for gas and oil. There is no preferred area so you can driVe to any part of the country. 
When is the opening night of Darby's Place and what are its hours? 
At midnight of Monday, October 7, Darby's Place will begin providing its services to the Notre Dame community offering coffee and donuts, conversation or solitude up until 4:30am. This service has been made possible by the chief night people on campusFather Griffin and Darby. 
Since October is the month of the rosary, will there be nightly rosaries held anywhere on campus? 
Rosaries will be held oneverynight in the Grotto at 7:30 for the duration of October. 
I missed Father Griffin's 5:00 mass last Sunday afternoon, are there any later masses being said on the North Quad? 
There are several evening Masses being held all over the campus. On the North Quad there is a 10:00 pm Mass in Breen-Phillips. On the south quad Badin has one at 10:00 pm and Dillon at 11:00 pm. There are several others, for a more complete list you can contact the Campus Ministry at 6536. 
Note: The Ombudsman Service is offering the Notre Dame community its services weekdays 9:30 to 5:00 and Monday through Thurs'· •v P.Venings 10:00 till midnight. 
At Sit£ formal dinner 
Madeleva's works to be featured 
by Bill Gonzenbach Staff Reporter 

A formal dinner will be given by St. Mary's College in an effort to introduce the South Bend com­munity to St. Mary's College and to raise scholarship funds for St. Mary's students. 
Dr. Jack Detzler, director of community relations, outlined the dinner program which is titled "An Evening at St. Mary's." "Th~ evening will begin with a cocktall party followed by a black-tie gourmet dinner. After dinner, the Speech and Drama department, under the direction of Dr. Syberg, will present a production of the works of Sr. Madeleva," said Detzler. 
The production of Sr. Madel eva's 
works is in honor of the tenth an­
.':'J,~f';}yj 10' \ .. ( .. ~· 

~··•••~•oo·· 
STARTS TONIGHT! 

FIRST: "LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT" THEN ­"DON'T LOOK IN THE BASEMENT" NOW... 


THAT VANISHEDW 
CGLIIIRI-r.Y:i~~·-1 

Friday, October 4, 1974 the observer 9 
Bicycle registration to be held next week in dining halls 
stressed that all bicycle$ ridden in registration form. 
the city of South Bend are subject Information needed for 
to impoundment by the police if 
registration includes the brand they do not have a registration name, year, model, serial number, 
sticker. Panici also pointed out the color of the bicycle and the 
that "the sticker makes it a lot owner's social security number. 
easier in returning stolen bikes The names and addresses of that have been recovered." 
previous owners are also 

Students who registered their requested if known. bikes last year need not do so again 
Students who cannot register as the registration is good for four their bikes next week will have years. Any student who registered opportunities later when Panicihis bike and did not receive a 

opens an office that will handle sticker rna~ obtai~ one next week registrations and reports of stolen
by presentmg h1s copy of the bikes. 
--------___, PITTSIIRGH atm 
Midsemester Bus 

by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 

Bicycle owners who have not yet registered their bikes will be able to do so next week in the North and South dining halls and in the Huddle. A $1 fee will be charged for nationwide registration and for the registration sticker. 
Jim Panici, executive coor­dinator for the bike registration, 
M9dia utilization increases teaching 
availability 
(continued from page 1) 
could oe used to multiply the ac­
cessibility of popular courses and provide faculty members a tool for evaluating their lecture techniques. 
The report pointed out that Notre Dame is a member of IHETS (Indiana Higher Education Television Station) which puts on film series, courses, and lectures, and yet this resource is seldom used by University departments. 
Cable T.V. hook-ups with other 
universities could allow Notre 
Dame to share the faculty 
resources, of other institutions and 
provide Notre Dame students with 
greater course selections. 
Periodic workshops for faculty 
members on the use of new 
educational tools and regular 
information provided by the 
university on what technology is 
available to faculty members 
could assist departments in 
keeping abreast of the latest 
developments. 


Chief horseman falls off horse and dies 
Albrecht said the horses wereRy FEHRY WIMMER beloved horse, "Siglavy Beja," so used to keeping in time withVIENNA <UPI) The during a performance of the music that they carried ondancing white stallions paused precision horsemenship at Vien­as long as they heard it overmomentarily when chief horse-na 's famed Spanish Riding the loudspeaker.
man Col. Hans Handler fell School. 
"We saw no reason to stopdead from the saddle. But then "After about 20 minutes of the program as nobody realizedthe show went on. the one-hour performance, Han-
it was so serious," Albrecht
"lt was the finest death he dler suddenly fell from the said. "Handler was never sick
could dream of," said his saddle," Albrecht said. "The 
before and we thought he justdeputy, Lt. Col. Kurt Albrecht. horses stopped for a while but fainted.
"He dedicated his whole life to then danced on to the tunes of a 
"Even Handler's horse at­
the horses." Mozart symphony while Han-tempted to dance on," AlbrechtHandler, 63, died Wednesday dler was carried out to an said. "It had to be led to thenight in the saddle of his ambulance." 


Post-graduate jobs discussed at W~.menS Co1nrnision 1neeting 
h,y Lonme Luna -·· Starr Heporter 
The Women's Commission held a meeting Wednesday evening to provide the ND-SMC women's community with information concerning jobs after graduation. 
"The majority of the girls are not sure of what they are going to do after they graduate," said commission member Terry Audo. 
Hicharu Willemin, director of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, and Karen O'Neill, director of the Placement Bureau at St. Mary's, informed the women on job opportunities in major companies across the U.S. 
"Our focus is in helping you plan your life," said O'Neill. She and Willemin noted that there is a 
great demand for women by NO and SMC Placement directors Willemin and O'Neill discussed employers. post-grad job opportunities with the Women's Commission. (Staff 
"All companies are bound by law 
photo by Paul Joyce.) 

to open their hiring to women," O'Neill and Willemin urged the career fields. Other students in­commented Willemm. He added women to make applications terested in applying for summer that some companies come to hire immediately for summer em· jobs are also urged to apply now, 
females only. ployment as well as for their Willemin concluded. 

Albrecht said Handler suf­
stables. But the show went on 
fered a heart attack. "Electro
to the end. The audience 
shock treatment in the ambu­
thought it was just an 
lance was fruitless," he said.
accident." 

THE ROMA PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your Host Frank Anastasio 'A pIZzA YOU CAN NOT REFusE I LIVE BAN OS 0 N WEE KEN OS Call 234-3258 For Delivery 
219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
DANCING LESSONS 




FRAN DEMARCO 

~ -~--------------------------­
Friday, October 4, 1974 
the observer 




Coed questions studied 
(continued from page 8) 
filled by women, women only hold 4 management jobs. 
Dr. Alberta Ross, associate professional specialist in Notre Dame Radiation Research and chairperson of Committee W, the 
women's  committee  of  the  
AAAUP,  attributed  this  to  
historical  bias  in  hiring  and  

recruitment. Ross especially noted that women holding PhD's are usually married to men 
To discuss Catholic history 

Conference is scheduled 
A conference on reinterpreting American Catholic History will be held this Friday and Saturday in the CCE, Dr. Jay P. Dolan of the History department announced yesterday. 
"Notre Dame has had a tradition in research and writing in American Catholic history." Dolan said. This weekend's Conference further reflects this and is trying to stimulate interest in the field by bringing in rising historians of American Catholicism from all over the country." 
The Conference will feature the topics of Catholics and the left, Catholics and ethnic studies, and new approaches in American Catholic history on Friday com­mencing at 10 :30 am. Dolan suggested that "graduate and undergraduate students taking courses in history, sociology, theology, or education might be interested." 
Highlighting the conference will be Friday night's 7:30p.m. session on new approaches in American Catholic history. Dr. Robert D. Cross of the University of Virginia 
Dillon Hall to 
sponsor race 
A bicycle race, sponsored by Dillon Hall, is slated for Sunday, October 6, announced Elton .Johnson. Dillon 'Hall president. 
The race, to be held from 3 pm to 5 pm. will be in a 5 mile, circular route, beginning and ending at LaFortune Center. Starts will be 
staggered,  with  best  times  
deciding the winners.  
first. second  and third  places  

will be awarded $40,$20 and $10 respectively. An entrance fee of 50 cents will be required from each rntrant. All members of the Notre 
Dame-St. Mary's community are invited to participate. Those wishing to participate should contact Tom Rhoman, coordinator of the event, in 127 
Di 
holding the same degree. 
Nepotism, regulations and the fact that the man gets a job first have hindered qualified women from obtaining teaching positions. One other statistic enters here: Dr. Josephine Ford of the theology department is the only Notre Dame woman professor to hold tenure. 
The problems are many, but the solutions are few. Assistant Dean of Students Mary McCabe noted, "We have to know ourselves before 

r-WANTED WANTED: 1 Rice ticket or else. c:all me now 284-4371 WANTED: RIDE TO EAST LAN· SING TODAY. CALL CHRIS AT 277· 0008 Need 1 GA tix for Army. Call Joe 1865 Need 3 GA Miami. Will trade 3 GA Army or pay cash. Mark 8420 Wanted: 4 Army GA tix call John or Kathy 282-1568 Desperately need Rice or Army Tix. Call Pam. 5185, 233-1899 Wanted: 4 Rice tickets, Student or GA. Call 4774 Wanted-General Admission Tix for Miami game. Call Jerry 232-6004 before 4 pm. 233-6160 after 10 pm. Desperately need ride to St. Louis Oct. 10-11. Will share expenses. Call Kevin 8730 Wanted; 8 tickets to Miami game. Call 255-7034 between 10:00 and 5:00  
In desperate need of 4 GA tickets for the Miami game. Please call Rich 6981 Need 2 to 4 tickets for Rice Game. Pat 272-5459 Wanted 2 GA tix for Pitt. Call Larry, 288-7375 Ride needed to Madison, Wis' Oct. 3, 4 Call 8774 Peter Needed desperately; three GA tix for Miami and 2 student tix tor Pitt games. Call Jerry 1636 -­Desperately need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Dan 1739 Desperately need two GA tix for Army. Call Rahj 1612 Desperately need 1 GA ticket for Rice and 4 for Pitt. Call Beth. 5144 Bass guitarist needed; top money; no novices. 234-5320 after 5 --­MEN+ WOMEN: jobs on ships! No experience required; excellent pay. World wide travel. Perfect summer job Send $3.00 tor information SEAFAX DEPT. G-13 P.O. BOX 2049 PORT ANGELES, WASH. 98362 Need GA tickets for Rice, Army, or Miami. Call 288-3176 Need ticket and-or ride to Mich. State Call Julie 4873 needed: Two tickets to the Notre Dame-Rice game. Call 272-0000 FOR SALE 4 '68 T-Bird hubcaps. Collectors items. Call Leroy 275-0154 after midnight FOR SALE: A Wollensak recorder. tape deck, less than a year old. Call 1069 '73 Galexy 500 air cond, power steering, power disc breaks. 2 Door hardtop. $2195 ca II· 282-2255 or 277. 0344 2 EPI 100 Hi-Fi speakers. $60 each 282-2255 Motel room tor weekend or Rice Game. Call Jane 7076 -'69 Olds Cutless Supreme. 2 door vinyl hardtop, air, full automatic power brakes and steering. $1150 call 1277 FOR SALE: philc T.V B&W 19., 1112 years old. excellent con d. with stand after 6 pm 272-2150 NOTICES Legal Problem, but no money? N.D. :ega; Aid can help ca II 283-7795 M· '"', 1-4 Ptn Dear Reo Ransen: We hope the Panda Bear of 138 Dillon has continued success with Lidrig Van, Mating calls, Rizza Reer & Lucy. Happy Birthday Cramer!!  


COME TO THE BULLA SHED ANl BRING A FRIENl mass &dinner every friday 5 pm 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LANSING 
cordially invites all alumni, students, their families and friends to a Pregame Party before this year's Notre Dame · Michigan State game. 
Pretzel Bell Restaurant Trowbridge Rd. and 1-496, East Lansing, Mich. Friday Evening, October 4, 1974, 8:00 P.M. 
Admission: $1.00 per person 
we can interact." She added that understanding "what it means to be a human person" is a big first step toward reconciling the dif­ferences that exist between men and women. 
As Sister John Miriam puts it, "The crucial isue of coeducation is attitudinal." She added, "Women are struggling to obtain new niches, the world is ready for women in new ways and No.1 Dame is rethinking the position of 
women." 
Money? Morrissey loan fund can lend you up to $150, Basement of Lafortune Daily, 11:15 . 12:15 
Daily New York Times. at Pandoras Books every morning, lO:OOAM. Sunday Times at 9 am 
Freshmen: All students who haven't picked up their Greshmen Register must do so by Fri. at the Services commission office after Fri. Student Union will no longer be responsible 
Govt. & Poly. Sci. 2 for 1 sale at Pandora,s Books now thru Wed. 
FOR RENT 
For Rent: Modern executive 2 bedroom cottage locater.J on 30 wooded acres of St. Joseph River frontage and Orehard Hills Golf Course. Win· terized cottage also features large fireplace, wall . to . wall carpeting, fully equipped kitchen and riding horses. Perfect for out . of . !owners on Notre Dame football weekends with only a 20 minute ride to the stadium. $150 per week. call 616-695· 6043 
Garage for rent near N.D. $8 month. Call 272-6174 
LOST & FOUND 
It a copy or 'Local Superiors., 1963 is found, please return to Joe, 203 St. Ed,s, phone 6696. Reward offered 
Lost: a silver and turquoise bracelet. Has great sentimental value. Reward. Please call 4979. Thankz 
Lost: white ski sweater, red gold, black trim. Reward. Clall 867 4 or 8672 
Found: car keys at O,Shag Tues. afternoon call 6917 
Lost: wirE~ rimmed glasses, sun­sensored lenses. Between circle and Holy Cross. Call Chris 232-0550 
Found: Thursday night at Nickies, green windbreaker . 'Jack Daniels Old 7, Ca II 289-3945 or 283-3439 ~ 
Lost $21S.Il0 cash between Keenan-Field house; Field house-O,Shag; Field house-Administration Big. Large Reward call 3368 
Found: Male Dashchund (dog) last nile. Owner please claim. Call Obser·ter, 8661 or Mary 4167 
PERSONALS 
There was-~ big'Aikie'named Dwin With girls he just couldn,t win Now so lonely is he call 1523 And bring your own bottle of gin. 
To the old 2nd floor Who,d ever believe l,d get 'ROPED, who,s next? Thanx WARK 
Dear Ransen: We hope the Panda Bear with Ludrig Van, Mating calls, Rizza Reer & Lucy. Happy Birthday Cramer!! Scusi The Wild Bunch 
P.S Watch out for Marlin Perkins!! 
Roberta stone still exists 
Julie, Happy 18th the Ca Iifornia Kid 5th floor La Mans 
Lady in Red, We,ve got to stop meeting like this. When can 1 see you? The Slopper 
Lady Streaker -Streak or shower-Lets go 
There everywhere, there 
everywhere Egg Hunt 
A prize for the most copies of local 
superior returned to Joe Gower, 203 
St. Ed,s 
Needed: Two GSa Rice ticke's. Call Terry 8922 
Junior League Thrift Shop. Over 30,000 items · new & used clothing, furniture, housewares, etc. The sale will be Saturday, October 5 9:00am. 5:00pm. FREE PARKING+ FREE ADMISSION at the 4-H fairgrounds. 
Take Miami 1 mile past Scottsdale to Jackson Road. 
.. 

will act as chairman and comment on the evening's speakers. Dolan added, "The speeeheswill be brief summaries of their printed papers." 
Saturday's topics, beginning at 9:15a.m., concern the hierarchy, theology, and an informal discussion of reinterpreting Catholic history. 

The themes that will be presented during the discussion include among others: "The Man in the Pew," the nature of the Catholic family, the role of religion in ethnic communities. "Em­phasis will be more historical than theological" stated Dolan. 
Friday, October 4, 1974



Spartans aim to further Irish woes 
by Greg ('organ Sports Editor 

For the Irish football team practice this week was something less than a barrel of laughs. 
Not that it ever is, but last week's upset loss to Purdue made for a less than jovial attitude this week combined, of course, with a lot of hard work. Three times coach Ara Parseghian scheduled scrimmages, something he seldom does during game preparation week, and even during "time-ups," on Wednesday when the No. 1 offense runs through its plays against the prep squad, the No. 2 defense provided the competition. 
"The dissapointment of a loss made it increasingly difficult to prepare a team," said Ara. "Our ball club is immensely disap­pointed over last Saturday, but that's over now. There wasn't much we could do but work hard and prepare for this week's op­ponent." 
This week's opponent, tomorrow's for that matter, are the always-tough Michigan State Spartans. 
Saturday's 1:30 p.m. EDT contest will mark the 39th time thelrish ano the Spartans have met. Although the Irish hold a 23­15 Pclge in the series and the last time Notre Dame lr ;t to State was a 21-17 decision i , 1968, MSU's head coach Denr.J Stolz has his troops primed and ready for this one. 
Michigan State and Notre Dame both bring identical 2-1 records into tomorrow's ball game. The Spartans dumped Northwestern 41-7 and Syracuse 19-0 before being rudely mistreated by UCLA last Saturday, losing 56-14. 
But if the Irish aren't to be • 
mistreated in East Lansing this weekend they shouldn't be misled by State's performance last weekend. 
"We're going to have a number of problems with Michigan State," offered Ara. "They run similar formations as Purdue and Baggett ( MSU's quarterback Charley Baggett) has been immensely successful with option football. 
"Their game with UCLA was a little misleading. Statistically they outgained the Bruins on the ground 338 yards to 306. Their problem was similar to ours with Purdue. They fell behind early and had to play catch-up football. But they moved the ball effectively and will definitely cause us some problems" 
Baggett is the biggest problem, at least offensively. The 6-0, 182 pound quarterback is the mainstay 

Greg O>rQ(Dl=========================================:::::::::::::=:::::::=:=============================================== 
The Irish Eye 
:============================================================================================:=====:=:=~Football picks 
College football shifts into high gear this weekend and only January's bowl games and AP's post-season poll will ever be able to make any sense out of this year's scramble. 
Only five of the top ten teams in the nation are undefeated at this point and the biggest surprise of the season may be if any one team remains so. Ask the Irish. 
Picking winners has become risky business in '74, but The Irish Eye ventures forth. 
Auburn at Miami: This game is tonight and pits two unbeaten surprise teams. Hurricanes lose their ferocity as they move inland, but un­fortunately for Shug Jordan and Auburn the game is close to seaside in Miami's Orange Bowl. It should be close but look for Miami by three. 
LSU at Florida: The Gators are surprising people (pleasantly) in Gainesville while Lousiana State has fans in Baton Rouge in an uproar (unpleasant). This contest is another close one, but Tigers have trouble in the everglades and Gators are right at home, literally. Florida by two. 
Iowa at Southern Cal: The Hawkeyes have a ridiculous schedule considering how bad they are. SC has a breather this week and next week .. and the week after that and the week after that and the week after that. Vacation starts tomorrow. SC by 24. 
Texas A&M at Kansas: The Aggies broke into the top five this week so they'll probably lose. It shouldn't be this week though. Look for a stampede in Lawrence and a lot of trampled Jayhawks. 
~Michigan at Stanford: Possible upset here but Stanford has been remarkably adept at losing ball games. Despite a home crowd, they should manage to lose this one too. UM b:Y 22. 
Notre Dame at Michigan State: After one hard week of practices and a rude awakening last week the Irish are ready to make amends. The Spartans are always tough at State and this game will be no exception. After the Purdue fiasco anything can happen, but look forND by 14. 
Minnt>sota at Nebraska: Minnesota's flying high, well at least as high as Gophers can get. Nebraska, however, should take care of the little critters by about 20 points. 
\\'t>st Virginia at Indiana: The Hoosiers blew their only chance to win this season last week at Kentucky. The Mountaineers may have trouble with the Indiana flatlands but nothing else, least of all the IU football team. West Virginia by 5. 
Oklahoma State at Texas Tech: The Red Raiders are fresh off an upset of Darrell Royal's Longhorns and may suffer a letdown. The Cowboys lost to lowly Baylor and two losses to Texas teams would be too much. Oklahoma State by one. 
Washington at Texas: The Longhorns aren't that good and the Huskies aren't that bad. But the Longhorns are better than the Huskies, about 26 points worth. 
Missouri at Wisconsin: This should be a very interesting game. The Tigers upset Arizona State last week while the Badgers were upset by Colorado. But whoever wins tomorrow it won't be an upset, for a change. Look for Wisconsin by one. 
Wake Forest at Oklahoma: One easy one. Oklahoma by 68. 
Pittsburgh at North Carolina: The Tar Heels aren't about to show Johnny Majors any of that southern hospitality. But Majors will show NC plenty of Tony Dorsett and it may be enough. Pitt by 6. 
Penn State at Army: Army isn't one of the worst teams in the nation for nothing. They should go a long way in provin~ why tomorrow afternoon. Of course the Nittany Lions will help. Penn State by 32. 
Upset or the week: Missippi over Alabama: Stranger things have happened. It's late at night and nothing makes sense, least of all this. But the game is in Jackson, Miss. and it may be Bear Bryant's turn to blow his perfect season. Another long shot, but look for Ole Miss. 
Last week: 12 of 15, 80 per cent. Season: 32 of 45, 71 per cent. 
in the Spartan attack. Baggett has accounted for 446 total yards including 241 passing with three touchdown tosses. Joining Baggett in the backfield are a pair of sophomores, tailback Richard Baes and fullback Levi Jackson. Jackson is State's leading rusher with a 6.6 yards per carry average whild Baes is averaging 5.6 yards per carry. If either of these two falter, senior--co-captain Clarence Bullock is more than a capable backup. 
If Baggett chooses to move through the air, something he has done only 21 times in three games, he has seniors Mike Jones at flanker, Mike Hurd at split end and sophomore Mike Cobb at tight end as prospective targets. However, despite his 241 yards, Baggett has completed only nine passes. 
Until last weekend the Spartan defense had allowed a mere seven points in two ball games, and Parseghian feels this is more characteristic than Saturday's 56 to UCLA. "They've always been a stout defensive team," he said. "They're a sticky ball club and a winning ball club. It'll be a dif­ficult chore without question." 
Defensively the Spartans are led by defensive tackle and co-captain Jim Taubert, linebacker Terry McClowry, and defensive end Otto Smith. These three Spartans lead the defensive unit in tackles. The 
only vulnerable spot for Tom 
Clements and company may be in 
the defensive secondary. Three of 
the starters are sophomores, John 
Breslin, Tom Hannon and Joe Hunt 
while the fourth, Tqm Graves, is a 
freshman. On the darker side, for 
the Irish, this is also the secondary 
which limited Northwestern's 
Mitch Anderson to only 156 yards 
passing. 
And passing is something the 
Irish have done a lot of lately. 
Irish Invite slated today 
by Bill Delaney 
The Irish Golf Team concludes its 
fall season today with the 
Notre Dame Invitational at the 
Burke Course. The Invitational, to 
begin at 11:00 includes teams from 
Wayne State, Wisconsin-Parkside, 
Wisconsin-Whitewater, Indiana 
State, and DePaul. 
"We have reached a level of confidence and maturity that we've never had before." said Coach Noel O'Sullivan. "Jeff Burda and Jim Culveyhouse are playing the best golf I've seen in along time, so I think we've got a definite chance to go all the way." 
Three-year starter Jim Culveyhouse has been one of the stars of the fall season for the Irish. "I don't know why I've been playing so well, since I've hardly had any time to practice this fall." commented thz junior from Herriville, Indiana. "I've finally been driving well, and that seems to be the key to my success." 
The Invitational offers the entering teams the opportunity of seeing co-captain Jeff Burda competing for the Irish. "Jeff has to be one of the finer players I've seen as long as I've been coaching." observed Purdue Coach Joe Cambell. "He has the ability to win many collegiate tournaments, and I'm sure we'll be hearing from him for a long time to come." 
"We'vedefinitely-W the material and talent to carry us to the title, but it will be tough" said O'Sullivan. "My only regret is playing is that this will be the final match of our fall schedule. We'll be working out during the winter in our conditioning program but the absence of playing will definitely set us back." 
Tight-end Robin Weber, the other receiver, is hoping to give Michigan State ·a,; hard a time as he gave those Purdue secondary men. 
Quarterback Clements has now back-up strength as will another totalled 729 offensive yards this familiar 'new' face, Art Best. Best year averaging 7.2 yards per play. has been working out all week and Through the air he has completed is expected to see some action. 45 of 74 passes for 616 yards, three The rest of the Irish offensive 
touchdowns and a completion and defensive starters will be the percentage of 61. Split end Pete same. Demmerle has been Tom's main 
"Notre Dame is much like UCLAtarget, as undoubtedly he will be in that they have many finetomorrow, hauling in 21 passes for athletes , " said Stolz. "They're326 yards. 
huge people and very physical in"One thing that surprises me," their play."
noted MSU's Stolz, "is that the Irish have been passing so much. "To make a strong game of it They've been throwing about 60 we're going to have to run with the percent of the time which is football, which is something we unusual for Notre Dame." have not been able to do in several 
The ineffectiveness of the run-years against Notre Dame and ning game has been the primary stop Clements both in passing and reason. Tomorrow the Irish will running. try to get on track with a couple of "I was hoping Notre Dame new faces. Starting in the back-would be undefeated and ranked field along with Clements will No. 1 when we came together. If again be the dependable Wayne you're going to meet a great team Bullock and halfback AI Samuel, like Notre Dame, you might as well but at the other halfback slot will have it right at the top." be Jim Weiler, a 6-2, 213 pound If Stolz had been at practice this sophomore. Russ Kornman and week, he'd have known Ara felt the Ron Goodman will again oro vide same way. 
Pete Ile1J11l11erle====================================================================================================:= 

Season to Season 
The final Sugar Bowl game was more than different from all the games before. It stands by itself as an experience, substantially more real yet infinitely more unreal than any other. So much has been written about the game, most of it is true, some of it exciting. Yet no writer could capture the quintessence of that experience--the tears, the butterflies, the confidence, the-awesomeness of going out to test our expectations-to test a year's work in two hours before 86,000 people. 
The moments were so fleeting, yet long enough to la:;t a life time. The impressions were almost abstract, a kaleidosco~ of flashing images -­harping brothers and sisters, beaming parents, babbling friends floating aimlessly down a New Orleans street. It was too much, it was not enough. 
It was Bourbon Street slick with rain, wide enough for celebrating Yankees and downtrodden southerners --narrow enough for quick embraces, handshakes, streaming eyes, knocked off hats, No. 1 buttons and soggy shoes. The music was all-embracing, brassy, caressing -a blanket against the cold rain. We were warm and dry -losing was so remote. 
Georgia Tech was at night and in the South, most of the faces were the same, so few of us had graduated,. Our start was shaky but eventually we began to roll, something from the Sugar Bowl was with us. Northwestern was the same, exercise in power. But Purdue was different a nemesis for last year's perfect season, and this year's start. Ther~ were lost fumbles, lost passes, and finally a lost score. But it was more than just a game, something irretrievable was lost. 
The band came to practice on Tuesday, surrounded the field, and played. It finally sank in. We had lost a game, everyone knew that, but that intangible, unnamable experience which carried us through the Sugar Bowl and the first two games was £one. 
Practice this week was marked with a-determination to recapture that feeling. It won't return in a single game, it takes many. That is what makes it so difficult to attain, and so precious to keep. It is what compels teams to be winners. 






