On The Inside 
An Tostal Review 
...pages 2-3 
Campus briefs 
page 7. 
Tuesday, April 23, 1974 



' 
l I 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Vol. VIII, No. 112 


Now each hall's responsibility 
SLC kills alcohol guidelines 
The Student Life Council yesterday voted to eliminate University guidelines concerning parties and drinking of alcohol. The move effectively shifts any legal liability for underage drinking away fr_om t_he University through the elimination of the Umvers1ty guidelines on alcohol. . . . 
The SLC emphasized that the respons1b1hty for enforcement of alcohol regulations must rest with the individual halls because the new Indiana law would preclude any University approva~ ?r knowledge of underage drinking. Because the res1dence halls now have complete control over drinking, there will~ no consistent University policy toward pa~ty reulab?ns. 
The current alcohol regulations, wh1ch went mto effect last semester, were suspended last week by ~he SLC. These regulations had permitted student parties and underage drinking with the approval of the Dean of Students' Office. 
The SLC action was made necessary by the recent Indiana Court of Appeals decision to broaden. legal responsibility for serving alcohol to underage mmors. The SLC recognized the right of students over the age of 21 to drink in moderation and urged students to comply with the new law. 
"The University is saying that under reasonable circumstances they will not allow students unde~ the age of 21 to drink alcohol," explained Ed Rah1ll, a student representative on the SLC. . 
An interpretation of such "reasonable c1r• 

Astronauts to 
by Jack D'Aurora Staff Reporter 
Commemorating 100 years of Notre Dame engineering, the College of Engineering will s~nsor a symposium this Friday, to be moderated by f1ve U.S. astronauts. 
The symposium is part of a two-day celebration, the beginning of which is a departmental open hou~e for the alumni, from 9:30a.m. to 11:15 a.m. on Fnday. According to College of Engineering Dean Joseph Hogan, "all Engineering students will be exc':'sed from their Engineering classes on that day, and will also be excused from all other classes after 11:00." 
A student luncheon will be held at 11:30, according to Hogan, "in order to give recognition to those engineering students who have received awards throughout the year." Approximately 150 students will attend the luncheon in the ACC Monogram Room. 
The symposium will begin at 2:00 with an _eig~t minute film to give the audience "a sense of bemg m outer space," said Hogan. "Afterwards, the guest panelists, astronauts William A. Anders, Col. Fra~k Borman, Charles Conrad Jr., Dr. Joseph P. Kerwm, and James A. McDivitt, will each make an opening statement. Fr. Hesburgh will follow with a number of thought provoking questions." 
Anders and Borman were members of the Apollo 8 crew which made the first lunar flight. Currently,Ande~s is a commissioner of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, and Borman is senior vice president of operations for Eastern Airlines. 
Conrad, who commanded Apollo 12 and piloted the Gemini 5 and 11 missions, and Dr. Kerwin were members of the Skylab 2 crew. Conrad now is vice president-operations for American Television and cumstances'' was offered. The University would recognize the basic claims of students to such rights as privacy. Yet, if hall staff members have reason to 

SBP Pat Mclaughlin: "I hope they don't penalize people who drink." 


help launch 
Communications Corporation, Denver, Colo. A medical doctor, Kerwin recently was named chief of physician astronauts for NASA. 
McDivitt, who is senior vice president of Consumers Power Company, Jackson, Mich., commanded the Apollo 9 ten-day earth orbital mission and was com­mand pilot of Gemini 4, a 66-orbit J?ission.. 
Hogan said that the symposmm w1ll be. a philosophical discussion rather than a techn?log~cal one. Topics such as the implications of. trav~lmg m a tiny spacecraft and the future of mankmd w1ll be ad­dressed. 
Though originally scheduled to take place in t~e Center for Continuing Education, due to large_ pubhc interest the event will be conducted in the ACC arena. Engine~ring students are given ticket preference, noted Hogan. . 
A Centennial Mass will be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church at 5:00. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh will be the principle celebrant, and Associate Provost, Rev. Ferdinand Brown, will act as homilist. 
At a banquet to be held that night, twelve individuals and one philanthropic foundation will receive Honor Awards from the College of Engineering. The newly instituted award, to be bestowed annually, acknowledges a significant contribution to the ad­vancement of engineering or architecture, or the meritous achievement in other fields by an engineer or architect. The award is a Steuben glass bowl with the University's seal on it. 
Honor Award recipients include Dr. Thomas P. Carney, a University trustee and senior vice president of research and development of G.D. Searle and Co., Chicago, Ill.; J. Allan MacLean, former president of Reliance Electric Co., Mishawaka, Ind; William D. Manly, vice-president of Engineered Products Group, believe that a state law was being violated, and minors were consuming alcohol, they would be obliged to stop it. 
0 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin noted the current status of alcohol regulations compared with those of other years. 
"It looks to me as if the alcohol situation is back to where we were as freshmen and sophomores," said McLaughlin. , . . 
"The whole thing is very unfortunate, sa1d Rahill, "that this University was moving toward making alcohol parties a socially acceptable event. Due to ~e Indiana court case, this was the only course of action available. 
McLaughlin warned of the effects of having no concistent University policy on alcohol. 
"The biggest problem will be trying to get con­sistency in the halls," he said. "I hope they don't penalize students who drink." 
Both McLaughlin and Rahill mentioned the for­mation of a student lobby to lower the drinking age to 18 as a long-range solution to the problem. 
"Substantial efforts will be made to form a lobby group to lower the age of majority to 18," pr~~t.ed Rahill. "If it's done right, there's a strong poss1bihty that it can occur." 
In other action the SLC voted secretly to elect members of the University Judicial Board. The names of those were not released. 


open house 
Cabot Corporation, Kokomo, Ind.; Martin A. Matich, executive vice president of the Matich Corp., Colton, Calif.; Raymond Schubmehl, professor emeritus, University of Notre Dame College of Engineering; Frederic C. Shadley, vice president of AVCO Precision Products Division, Cincinnati, Ohio; the five astronauts and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. 
The speaker for the banquet is Dr. Dwight Nesmith, director of cooperative education, College of Engineering, Kansas State University. 
The following day at 10:00 a.m., eleven distinguished engineers will be awarded honorary doctor of engineering degrees by the University during a special convocation. 
Dr. Jerome Wiesner, president of the Massachusettes Institute of Technology, will be the principal speaker at the convocation and "will discuss the relationship of technology to society." said Hogan. 
Those receiving honorary doctorates are: Dr. Jay 
W. Forrester, R. Buckminster Fuller, William P. Lear, Sr., David Packard, and Admiral Hyman Rickover. 
Also, Dr. Robert C. Seamans, Jr., Dr. H. Guyford Stever, Dr. Wernher Von Braun, Leo Vogel, Thomas Watson, Jr., and Dr. Wiesner. 
Notre Dame, which was the first American Catholic university to offer engineering courses, provides un­dergraduate and graduate degree programs in aerospace, chemical, civil, electrical and mech_anical engineering, metallurgy and materials sc1ence, engineering science and architecture. The College _of Engineering, under Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean, m­cludes six departments with 85 faculty members and 1,009 students including freshman intents. 


Astronauts to speak at Engineering Symposium Friday (William Anders, James McDivitt, Charles Conrad, Jr., Frank Borman, Joseph Kerwin) 
-----~---------­
' ·, ·· •. ·,:; ··u..;. J.il j
2 -----ttie -Observer 


warld 

briefs 
DENPASAR, Bali <UPD--A Pan American WQrld Airways 707 jetliner crashed in flames in mountainous country as it was ap­proaching the airport here Monday, police reported. Search crews had to travel through jungle to reach the crash site and there was no immediate word on casualties. 
BANGKOK <UPI>--The withdrawal of about one-third of the 35,000 American troops in Thailand began Monday with the redeployment of an A7 fighter squadron to the United States, a U.S. military spokesman said. 
CINCINATTI <UPD--More than 700 Cincinnati school teachers lost their jobs Monday in a long-anticipated personnel cutback caused by money problems. 
WASHINGTON <UPD--President Nixon Monday nominated Roger P. Davies, deputy assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern and South Asian affairs since 1965, to be new U.S. am­bassador to Cyprus. 
DES MOINES, Iowa <UPD-Vice President Gerald Ford and Sen. Edward Kennedy D-Mass., are the leading contenders for the Republican and Democratic nominations for President, according to a poll in Sunday's edition of the Des Moines Register. 
an campu• teday 
12:00-5:00 p.m.--student faculty show, ed earle and bob kincaid, photos and photo silk screens. main moreau gallery 
12:00 · 9:00 p.m.--art show, ann relsenrath and debby schrager,~ "cheese cake and friends," photograph series, hammes gallery 
1:00 p.m.--baseball, university of michigan, two games 
4:30 p.m.--seminar, "competition and preditation in bog lake zoo plankton communities," by carl von ende, galvin life aud. 
7:00 p.m.--discussion, great books discussion, room 105, madeleva memorial 
8:00 
p.m.--lecture, "japan in the eye of the storm," by donald hellman, galvin life aud. 

8:00 
p.m.--debate, "Industrial manipulation of the energy crisis," sponsored by the nd debate society, library a·ud. 





An Tostal'74-'thebest yet' 
by Bob Quakenbush An Tostal Reporter 
An Tostal '74 -"the best one yet" -is all but at an end, except for one or two special traditions. And one of these is putting all the winners' names in the paper so they can prove what they did back home, and one supposes, have some yellowed news clippings to pull out and chuckle over at future class reunions. So grab your scissors -the following is the 1974 An Tostal Roll of Honor. 
Gentle Thursday 
First of all, a pair of real win­
ners, Kathy Keyes and Patty 
Lurel, deserve special mention for 
arranging the greatest show of 
affection An Tostal has ever seen. 
Through their efforts, more than 
300 ladies of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's were able to send daisies to 
their favorite fellas. That's amour. 
In a hard-fought battle of the brains, Notre Dame maintained its six year unbeaten record against St. Mary's College in the An Tostal Trivia Bowl. Emcee, Art Ferranti, pointed out that though the final point totals were ND 405-SMC 350, the difference was only six questions. He added, "I'd like to thank those who helped with the Trivia Bowl, including those who participated and those who at­tended, to help, once again, make it a success." 
Beer Farley and the Hops proved to be more than the Notre Dame varsity basketball players could handle as Most Valuable Player Mary Clemency led the Hops to a thrilling 41-40 vicotry over Least Valuable Player Hawk Stevens (in blue negligee) and teammates. Mary Jane Bolinske, coordinator of the girls' tournament which decided the varsity's opponent, hinted that the boxing gloves the men were required to wear may have had a hand in the loss, but 
said, "The girls really were great and I think all 12 teams which entered the tourney had a great time." 

The Observer is publiShed dally during ttte college semester except vacations by the stuctents of ttte University of Notre Dame and Sf. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for -sa per semnter IS14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana .46556. Second class ~-ge paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Evening showers threatened to spoil the night's activities, but after a quick call to the weather bureau An· Tostal organizers decided to weather the storm, rather than move to Stepan Center. 
Several events were forced from the schedule due to rain, but the ones which remained more than made up for the loss. 
For example, the perennially successful jail recorded more than 400 convictions as the An Tostal posse rounded up dozens of "the guilty" and nearly every pretty girl they saw. An Tostal's Chief Architect, Mike "Hush" Brauweiler, an Accounting major, is credited with building the "most escape -proof jail" ever con­structed for the festival, as no more than ten escaped through a small break in the North Wall's unelectrified snowfence. 
More than a few penniless jailbirds found retribution in the pie throwing booth far worse than confinement. Several gallons of chocolate pudding are now rumored to be clogging up washing machines all over campus. <Special thanks goes to Miss K.G. for taking her punishment like a true champ.) 
The dunking booth delighted hundreds of the spectators who braved the rain to enjoy the opening night of An Tostal festivity. "Most Obnoxious Dunk" award to Ombudsman Bill 
Life or 
McLean, whose taunts and challenges kindled the ''wrath" of all and also brought in a lot of silver quarters. 
"K.O. O'Neill entertained from 
the shelter of Breen Phillips front 
porch in the "Name That 
Tune! "contest. And while he spun 
the discs, the Mark Bloom Band 
performed all evening from under 
the overhang at the North Dining 
Hall's E-F entrance. 
The "candle shoot·i>Ut'' title has 
been awarded to the Lord in 
Heaven. Using the largest squirt­
gun in the world (the sky), he not 
only extinguished all the candle 
flames but also drowned the hopes 
of all other entrants. 
But despite the rain, it was generally concluded that Gentle Thursday came off quite well in· deed. 
Frivolous Friday 
The jello toss opened Frivolous Friday activity when more than 30 two-man teams competed for the title of Notre Dame Jello Toss Champs. The event was fiercely contested (one competitor dove into the crowd in an attempt to catch a stray cube of jello, only to have it bounce off his nose) but in the end it was Zahm Hall's Jim Burdick and Jack McGranaham, with a winning toss and gulp of 33 yards, who wore the winning smiles. 
(continued on page 3) 


Death? 


220 W. Marion . Elkhart Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years 
Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 


J·UNIORS! 

Tuesday, April 23 is Junior Night at the Senior Bar, from 8:30 to 1:00. Pints of Beer 25c: 
Sponsored  by  the  N.D.  Alumni  
Association  and  the  Junior  
Class.  

21 I.D. Required 

J 
~ . ·-:-:-·. '.-.·::.. ·.·· 




GIRLS 
During the past few weeks, a number of girl's purses have been stolen while their owners were at THE LIBRARY. We regret that we cannot be responsible for lost or stolen articles. We urge you to carry your money and J.D.'s in your pockets or wallets to avoid such loss in the future. Thank you. 


I ­

Nixon ponders subpena reply 
WASHINGTON (UPI) prepared another request for shared his thoughts but made Clair and J. Fred Buzhardt. Jaworski, in a separate action, President Nixon, facing a White House · material in no final decision about the "It is fair to say he has given has subpoenaed 64 Nixon Thursday deadline, spent much addition to that already de­subpoena. a great deal of time to this conversations for use in the of his time Monday in manded in the subpoena. Deputy press secretary Ge­matter," Warren said, adding, cover-up conspiracy trial of consultation with his lawyers Hutchinson did not say rald L. Warren pictured Nixon "The President told me no former Attorney General John and aides to decide on a whether the new request had as having alternated over the decisions have been made in N. Mitchell and six former response to the unprecedented been delivered to the White past few days between cruises terms of the content or form of officials at the White House and congressional subpoena for his House, what it contained or in solitude on the Potomac and the reply." the Nixon re-election commit­Watergate tapes. what aspect of the impeach­a flurry of Watergate meetings. Warren turned aside ques­tee. 
Meanwhile, the senior Repub­ment investigation it related to. Nixon spent the weekend tions as to whether Nixon would Nixon has until May 2 to lican member of the House Discussing Nixon's strategyy alone at Camp David, the offer White House-prepared respond to this demand. Judiciary Committee, Rep. session with his counsel, White presidential retreat in Mary­transcripts in lieu of the tapes Warren refused to discuss Edward Hutchinson of Mi­House spokesmen said it was land, then returned earlier than themselves, how and when the published reports which quoted chigan, disclosed the impeach­the second consecutive day of expected Sunday to consult with decision would be announced, White House aides as saying ment inquiry panel has meetings in which Nixon had his chief lawyers, James D. St. and whether the President Nixon planned to offer the 
would issue a public statement House committee transcripts of at the time; the subpoenaed tapes, with The House committee ordered deletions of information which 
Nixon April 11 to turn over Nixon considered classified for recordings of 42 conversations national security reasons or he had with five top aides. The irrelevant to the impeachmenttalks occurred between Feb. 20 inquiry. and April 18 last year, when the Warren said Nixon planned to Watergate cover-up began to fly to Jackson, Miss., Thursday
unravel. Nixon maintains it was to address the 25th annual during that period he learned meeting of the Mississippifor the first time of the extent Economic Council, and to of involvement of administra­Phoenix, Ariz., May 3 to tion officials. address a group of Arizona 
Special prosecutor Leon Republicans. 
Is now taking applications for waitresses for this summer and next year. Please come in as soon as possible, or call Rick 233-1115
Fr. Hesburgh visits An Tostal 


(continued from page 2) 
Fr. Hesburgh made a surprise visit to the impersonation contest stage to wish An Tostal revelers well and welcome springtime to Notre Dame. After his departure, Kevin O'Neill and Jim Corgel, a first-year MBA student, earned a share of the Impersonation Contest championship. O'Neill im­personated Fr. Griffin, Steve from Cleve, and a pair of Corby's notableswhileCorgel rendered fine impersonations of noted sports­.casters. Jim E. Brogan, An Tostal pioneer and legend, emceed the event and once again per­formed his much-renowned im­personations of a lighthouse, the first astronaut landing on the sun and Joan of Arc. 
Two Flanner boys took the egg toss honors with, believe it, or not, another winning toss of 33 yards. Thus, Clark Hamilton and Mike Kenney have now earned the right to tell everyone they have the "gentlest hands on campus." 
As reported in yesterday's Observer, the DUCKS, a team comprised of second-year law students, won the Bookstore Basketball Championship by 31 II by four points in the title game. Joe Cooney, Brian 
RESERVATIONS
I 
284-4176 
~ 

w ND 

Student • Faculty 
SMC 


ND·SMC Staff 
$200


THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 


John Gay's ribald musical romp Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
'.. ' .....~.: ' ..... ,•,•."".' 
Paul Shay, Mike Savion, and Craig Spengel. Performing several ShaNaNa songs brilliantly,"Grease" ran away with the Amateur Hour --not even Herschel the Magnificent Horse, who per­formed a feat never before seen on 

SATURDAY MAY 4th 8P.M.
stage (and indescribable here) came close in the balloting. 
YICTO. 
The audience then departed Stepan Center for a half hour to witness a "tremendous fireworks display" <More at the end of this 
..:rBORGE
articlel. 
with

Once inside again, free-concert-goers enjoyed a three-hour performance by Luther Allison -­.MARYLYN MULVE who had only been contracted for one hour. Around midnight, Allison departed amid applause 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW 'l,8¥l·fF:~~
and the audience departed to 
prepare for Sunny Saturday. Rich 
ALL SEATS RESERVED sr ss• s4• 
Donovan, Student Union Concert 
PRO

Coordinator, was presented an An Tostal T -shirt to show the com­mittee's gratitude for arranging the concert. 
(Sonny Saturday tomorrow.) 
Thursday, May 2 at 8:00 
Tickets are $6.00 and $4.00 NOW ON SALE at the ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office. 
WITH THE GAP BAND 
Harrington <capt.), Roosevelt Thomas, Terry McGann, and Ron Hein carried home their two baby ducklings, a lot of pride, and the 1974 Bookstore Basketball championship. 
Vince Meconi, who deserves boundless praise of arranging the whittling of a 136-team field down to one champion said of the tournament once it was over, "I had a lot of fun and I hope everyone else did too." 
Eddie Elam, from Off-Campus, shaves balloons better than anyone else at Notre Dame and he proved it Friday. 
Remember the "ring around the collar" commercial where the guy trying to pass the orange to the pretty blonde never gets the chance? That turned out to be the basis for the surprise event, only in this instance water ballons were substitued for the oranges. Ob­servers report the event made quite a splash. So did the extra water balloons when they were thrown into the audience. 
The Amateur Hour ended in a standing ovation for "Grease," a Glee Club group comprised of Tom Rooney, Jay Angeluzzi, Greg O'Toole, Bob Foster, Jeff Brunner, 
------~------~ ~--~--~-------­
Tuesday, April 23, 1974 



THE OBSERVER Ms.fiivin'=JS 
Af\1 INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
·'· The Cruellest 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief 

Month
Ann Me Carry Marlene Zloza 
·1­
Editorial Editor Managing Editor .. \ ' ....
: ''/•. maria rJallatJher 
Lee Gentine Terry Keeney John Kloos Business Manager News Editor Advertising Manager Now that I am a senior I can understand who April is the cruellest -------------------------------month. Eliot may confound the intellectually-naive freshman, but
April 19, 1974 

somehow four years draws one into an empathetic communion of sorts with him. Perhaps it comes of being on the brink of active par­ticipation in The Wasteland. Or simply because we've added four more years of coexistence with madness to our experience. 
April can be tough on the composure. The weather is as un­



Fragile Inconsistency
predictable·· and uncontrollable -as one's emotions. Promises of new life lie under constant threat of sudden frost, or dread rain. We are torn between memory and desire. Our dull roots are in imminent 
Well, we're back where we started. In other words, a difference of en­danger of being uprooted. forcement between Hall A and Hall B
Reconvening yesterday, after having Winter kept us warm, covering
could very well end up in Office D-The Earth in forgetful snow, feedingsuspended the University guidelines on Dean of Students with the possibility of A little life with dried tubers.
alcohol last Friday, the Student Life 
all the halls suffering the consequences of 
Council confirmed that suspension. The Envelope, please ...
such a conflict.

There were no other alternatives, due to 
The direction of one's entire future may rest in a single letter. I will 
the recent ruling on legal liability by the The rectors must now be the main link. 
show you fear in a handful of dust. It is a heavy feeling, waking to
Indiana Court of Appeals. Unless some informal but consistent 
uncertain skies, knowing that this day of all days perhaps bearsunderstanding develops between the destiny one floor down, in box 1601. Thin letters are the day-spoilers; 
The responsibility for parties now goes halls and their staffs, then the fuse to plump ones are welcome. On those who should be accustomed to back to the individual halls. The quite a bombshell will have been lit. The waiting-in dining hall and registration and ticket lines, for buses and University must once again assume a profs ··a new, more terrifying waiting game is forced. 
risk is too high that conflicts will arise­
posture of hypocrisy as the rectors .. 'My nerves are bad to-night. Yes, bad. Stay with me.
only to end in forced action by the 
'Speak to me. Why do you never speak. Speak. 
prepare to accept the delicate respon­University as a result of the inane In­
What are you thinking of? What thinking? What? 
sibility for drinking and party rules. The diana court decision. 
'I never know what you are thinking. Think. 
progress and hopes that Student Affairs, 
Jobs and graduate schools efficiently squash plans and dash areamlS 
particularly the Dean of Students' office, Let the rectors unite in form and 
with Kelly Girl efficiency. The very tardiness of the discouraging
had sought, are destroyed. purpose in enforcing party rules. If not, 
replies indicates a lack of respect for the suffering. 
the explosive consequences will be felt by What now remains is a fragile in­student and staff alike. IIUHHY lJP PLEASE ITS TIME consistency among du lac's twenty-one 'What shall I do now? What shall I do?' 
l I 
rectors in legislating and enforcing party -:-Tom Drape and drinking guidelines in each of their 
The Idle Mind is ... anxious
respective halls . ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Generally a senior carries a lighter course load, but the extra time it 
"Doonesbua 
YIJP. I HIT ml,WtU­1J.IE lOIJI&r<. our fOR. WJUr<. M&APOWS THIS 
MORNIN6 MOI!NINF:J. PUT 
~I UPACOVPt.F 
5&&••. \ COVE)S OfQVA/t.! 

~ GIJ'!t«~­
8UT YOIJ'V& 
8e&N /)()IN6 IT FOR 
YfiARS. 
I 

affords is cruel. The year is shorter, the days longer. There is less need to study, more need to talkdancelearnlive, but we fumble in our haste to cram it all in before the end. More time to worry, fight, waste, sleep away. One "suddenly" discovers books that should have been read, people that should have been friends, friends that should have been lovers, places that should have been explored. 
"Senioritis" gives one a new perspective on things. It's a whole new way of seeing --like training the eye to see through the camera's viewfinder. Magically, it brings insight to many, which can be frightening if one hasn't had it for four years. 
I Tiresias, though blind, throbbing between two lives ... 
To the luckier ones, something more: a vision develops, again with the potential to steer one toward an irritating cynicism, or toward a Bacchanalian irresponsibility, or twoard ­
What are the roots that clutch, what branches grow Out of this stony rubbish? Son of man, You cannot say, or guess, for you know only A heap of broken images, where the sun beats ... 
Death of a Senior 
Spring fever is a dangerous disease. If detected early, perhaps it is easier to come to terms with. In many cases, it slowly consumes. We die a small death in each moment that we'll never see again, a bigger one in the spring that passes cruelly. 
Tolling remniscent bells, that kept the hours ... 
Our moments are numbered. We begin to measure our moments Nith a Hemingwayan reverence for their transience. Sitting in Nickies it is amazing how profound one waxes. 
Small things are moving; things that have always moved us do so some intensely. Trite as it sounds, sunshine on one's shoulders can make a senior happy; rain often mingles with April tears. One's youth slips like water through clutching fingers, lost. Twenty-one is a fearful age. Twenty-two is unthinkable. Twenty-three does not exist. 
Your shadow at morning striding behind you Or your shadow at evening rising to meet you, 
Some of us turn our eyes toward the Unreal City under the brown fog of the winter moon. The City is awesome; here is affirmation of Grown Up. We turn from our intellectual pursuits, form that Shakespeherian Rag, to uncertainty. It is a tough deck to deal with, in many ways a game belonging to the cheater. 
Departed, have left no addresses. 
'ELEMENTARY, MY DEAR HEARST ••• YOUR DAUGHTER IS OBVIOUSLY A CRIMINAL!' 
In the Dome's long shadow For some seniors, the God Dome will cast a long shadow, one that shelters or haunts. The memories for some are bad ones; the desire is the observer to get away. Her brain allows one half-formed thought to pass:
Controller of the night: John 
Editor of the Day: Sax player of Those of the Editorials: Fred 
'Well now that's done; and I'm glad it's over. • 
Flannigan the year 
Graver and Tom Drape
Compugraphic of the night: Bob It is sad to see those who leave thus. One will discover, at some later
Editor of the Copy: Ken Bradford Sittin: Gary Allletta 
period in time, that bitterness is a futile weapon in The Waste Land. 
Steinmetz 
Shooter of the Pictures: Albert Ass't Nocturnal Editors: Tom 
Typists of the night: Barb Nor­Hopefully, the majority of us will leave having made our separate
D'Antonio O'Neil and Bill Murphy 
peace, able if not to understand The Waste Land, to cope with it and 
cross, Camille Arrieh, Tom Proprietors of the Sport: Corgan Editor of the Nocturnal: Tim 
not succumb. We have heard the Fire Sermon and must answer. 
Modglin, Jeff McPherson and Corgan and Lawlor and O'Reiley. 
Shantih shantih shantih 

-
f>'\\'1 .f.\' !hqA .-~~!laguT Tuesday, April 23, 1974 
the observer 

Another's Dignity
by Fr. James Shilts 
Fr. Shilts is director of Off-Campus Residence, and Assistant Rector of Lyons 
Hall. 
There are those memories we tend to bring up In recalling the past, grim ex­~>riences which only become humorous as 
we look back upon them. For those of us in graduate study at Notre Dame a decade or two ago there was the Black Tuesday Physics Exam--a mammoth departmental for undergrads held every other Tuesday night--more terrifying certainly than any Emil exam of today. What made those 
•~••no.-ionr••c:: so fearful was not the quality of problems the faculty thought up. It was the constant procession of eager graduate student proctors around the room, bent on discovering the least evidence of a crib sheet or markings on a slide rule. The standards for committed surveillance were part of our graduate training. We took for granted that every undergraduate would cheat any moment we turned our backs. We caught quite a few but I'm sure a few got by. 
We chuckle today as we recall those experiences, the ingenious ways the students brought in notes. It was a game, in a way, a grim one because the con­sequences of being caught were not pleasant. It had little to do with honesty, other than imposing an honesty on students who we assumed to be deficient in that virtue. But that is what it was called. Student Honor. Imposed with a rigor for which we could boast that dishonesty in Physics exams was an exception. We might just as well have called it student deception. Because the rewards were the 
same for an artful deceiver as they were fragile moments when another's dignity is 
,,., hoooc·ol Pres·eon·t' 



Honor 
If we are hopeful that an education at Notre Dame will also be a growth in honor, we have to first agree that honesty cannot be imposed. It can be encouraged, taught by example and properly recognized and rewarded but it cannot be imposed. A student can grow in honor (as can others in the University community} to the extent that he comes to realize his own personal dignity and the need to be honorable if he is toenjoydignity. ltisavaluablebutfragile gift we have, our sense of dignity. With it we find the courage and the will to live accordingto convictions we consider valuable. Without it we will under the pressure of criticism or derision. Any dignity we enjoy or perceive as our own is open to damage by an excessive dose of such criticism or derision. We begin to wonder if we are worth anything at all after a heavy barrage of insults. 
Rather than imposing honesty, our approach to honor at the University should be along the lines of respecting the dignity of each individual in our community. We may be created short or tall, dark or fair but we have all been created good. What we do with that innate goodness is the responsibility of each individual who must see to his own growth. But it is the responsibility of the community, too. For we enable or inhibit growth by our way of interacting, by our shown respect for each other's personal dignity. The games are still being played, the games meant to catch one another in weak momenTs. When will we learn that those are the 
Direct Approach by James P. Danahy 
Prof. James Danehy is a mentoer OJ the Student Life Council, and a Professor of Chemistrv. 
December 12, 1973 
To the members of the class (Chemistry 223): 
Ours is a cooperative work. Most of you are studying organic chemistry because it is one of the essential ·prerequisites for admission to dental and medical school. It is my pleasant responsibility to guide you into this area of knowledge and to help you, in­dividually as well as collectively, to achieve some understanding of the rational principles which govern it. 
But we do now know that there are some among us who do not wish to cooperate. Rather, by deliberate and premeditated dishonesty they are trying to obtain what they have not earned by the combination of their nati:ve abllity and sustained study. 
Cheating is a social sin, not just a violation of an individual's personal integrity. The cheater can only get what he wants at the expense of every decent member of the class. The cheater's behavior is an intentional assault on every other member of his peer group. The cheater gambles on the cynical assumption that he is safe because accusation of a cheater is not 

ally acceptable behavior, although cheating itself acceptable (albeit grudgingly)! Understandably, in view of the complex web of tacit mptions which underlie every coherent group (including Notre Dame), when some few of you to me that 

I 
l 

November 12, you suggested that I do something about it: provide a corps of proctors to patrol the examination room; use a multiple-keyed examination with controlled seating. 
This letter has a two-fold purpose: to explain why I firmly reject any attempted solution to fhe problem based on unilateral action on my part; to suggest a solution which is simpler, more reasonable, and more Christian. 
There are two quite different reasons why I refuse to accept the sole responsibility for attacking this problem. First, it is not my problem; it is our problem. 
As a member of the group each one of us has the responsibility of protecting himself or herself (and cooperatively the entire group) from any criminally deviant member thereof. If I were to assume sole responsibility, as some of you have suggested, I would be acquiescing in your decision, conscious or un­conscious, not to fulfill your responsibility to yourself and to your community. 
My second reason, while perhaps less important than the first one, is by no means insignificant to me. For more than three months now I have worked as closely and personally with you as it is possible for one per­son to work with more than three hundred persons. I have tried to help each of you >'{hohas asked me to do so and I have taken for granted the personal integrity of each one I have met. It is simply repugnant to me to 


Images of "Honor" 
Pat  McLaughlin  is  the  newly-elected  
Student Body President.  
What  does  honor  bring  to  mind?  

"Honor" brings to mind the security guard who tells you that you can't get your car on campus; not because it's after six o'clock, but because "students are always trying to sneak cars on overnight..." And then he lets someone on campus who is over 35, driving a cadillac--without a parking sticker, a license, or a reason. 
"Honor" brings to mind the teacher who tells his students not to worry about grades, then decides on a curve where a 95 is a "B"; and wonders why the hell there is cut throat competition for grades. It's a place where students are penalized because they all did their work. 
"Honor" brings to mind the secretary who yells and screams like it's the end of the world... because you colored in the wrong grids on one of your registration computer cards. 
"Honor" brings to mind the ad­ministrator who lectures on the public use of alcohol. .. and then waves to the alumni having a parking lot party before a home football game. 
"Honor" brings to mind the student who plagiarizes a paper; as well as a faculty member who uses a student's work in his own book or research. 
"Honor" brings to mind the black student who is asked for his I D wherever he goes; not because he's a student but because he's black. 
"Honor" brings to mind the student who cheats on an exam for a better grade and thinks he's fooling the class and the teacher .... but no one has the nerve to tell him that he's only fooling himself. 
"Honor" brings to mind the girl who is singled out in class ... not because she's a student but because she is a girl. 
"Honor" brings to mind the approval of programs or policies not because they are good but because "a lot of work was put into these proposals." 
"Honor" brings to mind a discussion of honor where we create a double standard in talking about "students," "faculty," "staff," and "administration"...rather than just talking about "people" or "Christians" where the rules and sanc­tions will appply to everyone. That's what honor is all about. You can't change the altitudes of people in their "university" roles. You must change it in their real life roles. 
We talk an awful lot about things like 
How can we discharge our responsibility jointly? On the evening of December 17 I will be present, of course, as I was on October 8 and November 12, and I will have personally placed the examination papers as far apart as possible in the North Dining Hall in order to minimize the embarrassment consequent to crowding. I will, as on the previous occasions, respond to your request for clarification if you raise your hands. 
I believe it is almost impossible for any person, much less two or three persons working together, to attempt cheating without it becoming either visible or audible to someone in the immediate vicinity. I simply asking you this: if you are aware of dishonest behavior, rap firmly and loudly on the table-top three or four times, and then continue with your work. This signal will serve two purposes: it wiII alert the entire class that a brazen outlaw has once more challenged us, but for once, not with impunity; it will immediately bring me to the area concerned. Hopefully this will be enough to discourage continuation of the acitivity. Remember, our purpose is not to catch cheaters, but to prevent 
cheating. · Please do not be dissuaded from this simple, direct, effective action by the immoral attitude which you long ago absorbed in elementary or secondary school: that it is "wrong" to turn in a cheater. Reread what I have written in the second and third paragraphs of this letter. The cheater does not have a right to your protection while he rapes you. And no one is going to ostracise you for doing an honest and courageous 

by Pat Mclaughlin 
"honor" and "university community." Who and what are they? Are they just 
nebulous terms? Do people come to the 
campus, change their state of mind to fit 
"community" standards and then go home 
at night only to change once more?  Does a  
statement  on  "honor"  bring  about  
"honor"?  

Let's look at it in a different way. One professor on the SLC observed that each major group on the cmapus felt that they were honorable while the other groups were dishonorable. The students see the faculty and dministration as dishonorable; the faculty sees the students and ad­ministrators as orgres; and the ad­ministration sees the faculty and students as foolish. Each group sees their own group as honorable. Each group must fend for itself. 
Well. then, we must assume that each group is honorable. Why, then, shouldn't we investigate dishonor? Someone on the SLC suggested that we should investigate dishonor through an ombudsman rather than trying to set about and define honor. The discussion, however, was sent to a subcommittee. 
The students are one step ahead of the game. Three weeks ago, student govern­ment's ombudsman service decided to expand operations to include in­vestigations into reports of dishonor. 
It won't be a witch hunt and it won't have to monopolize headlines in the paper. It will help solve the problems of the students without dragging the student onto the firing line. Most of all, however, it will attempt to educate other people in similar positions before they make unknowing, dishonorable mistakes. It won't take on a negative tone but rather a positive tone. It won't try to condemn but rather inform. It won't tell us that we are dishonorable but rather that we should become honorable. 
Three weeks of campaigns and elections told us that we don't need a "study" about honor. It also told us that we have a lot of problems inside us that remain inside us and provoke other dishonorable actions. Finally, it didn't take long to realize that students feel we've been operating under a double (or triple) standard. 
We don't need a code to tell us about honor ... especially_ when it is based on a survey to determine what "honor" is. We've waited over a hundred years at Notre Dame to find out that there was an honor problem. Why wait another couple of months? 




~------~-~ 
,_,. ~-. t . ·, ·... ·r.\...··.·.·.-.·.,. 
Tuesday, April 23, 1974 · 

Italian recipients 
SMC confers two honorary degrees 
place tonight, from 8:30 p.m. to 

a large crowd," Ericksen con­people we have for the trip," ex­
1a :00 a.m. Beers will cost 25 cents 


BULLA SHED_
tinued. "We want everyone to plained Ericksen. 
Members of the Church hierarchy and American and Italian dignitaries joined Dr. Edward L. Henry, president Saint Mary's College, when the College conferred honorary degrees upon two leading Italian citizens. This event took place at the College's Rome, Italy campus on Saturday, April 20, 1974. Those honored included the Honorable Oscar Luigi Scalfaro and Dr. Licio Pallotta. 
Participating in the degree ceremonies with Dr. Henry were His Emminence Cardinal John Wright, Prefect of the Congregation of the Religious at the Vatican, His Emminence Cardinal Ugo Pletti, Vicar General of Rome, and the Honorable John Volpe, United States Ambassador to Rome. 
Oscar Scalfaro has long been a servant to his people. He graduated from the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Milan. As a young man, he took up the cause of the imprisoned anti­fascists and brought aid to their families furing the Fascist-Nazi occupation of Italy. This con­cerned incolvement led him to be elected in 1946 by the Catholics of Piedmont to the Constituent Assembly. He has been re-elected for six consecutive legislatures. 
Oscar Scalfaro has participated actively in his country's govern­ment. He has held the positions of Secretary and Vice-President of the Christian Democrats in the 

Ericksen of Senior 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 
Greg Ericksen, President of next year's Senior Class, announced the final arrangements for Junior Bar Night at the Senior Bar. The special opening of the Bar will take 
a pint. Junior Bar Night will only have a good time and start Letters and a questionnairebe open to those twenty-one or thinking about Senior Year and all concerning the trip will be sent to over. 

i 
that will encompass." all Juniors next week. 
"Our purpose is to get Juniors Ericksen also revealed plans for Ericksen explained that he is tr­interested in frequenting the next Fall's Senior trip to the USC ing to arrange the plans so thatSenior Bar next year," explained game, which takes place anyone who wants to go on the trip Eicksen. "We want to make the 

November 30. can.
Senior Bar the focal point of Senior 

• 
involvement to get people to meet

• 
each other."' l The special night is sponsored by I the Junior Class and the Notre 




NOMINATIONS I 
T•>m McMahon General Agent 
I 
Dame Alumni Association, which owns and operates the Senior Bar. 
FOR GSU 
"The Bar . only admits visitors 
<twice a semester," said Ericksen. 

Now being accepted lor Vice-President 
"We decided to have Junior Bar 

and Secretary-Treasurer.
Night late in the second semester because more Juniors are twenty­
All interested Grads see Bill Lavage, 
one now." According to computer lists 
Memorial Library 
or Paul Bolduc, 373NSH 
obtained from the Registrar's 

Elections April 26
Office, approximately 550 Juniors 


THE CHEAP TRUCK IS COMING ! 
Baggage Truck To New York 
I 
Cheapest Prices On Campus! 
I 
For Information & Sign-Ups Ca II: Bob or Mike 1248 
Frank 8823 
illlllllllllllll~ 


Norm Wallace 
Carlton Higgenbotha n 



announces opening 
HAVE LUNCH WITH 
Bar for '75 seniors 

MARGARET CHASE 
are now twenty-one. "The trip will cost an economical Ericksen said plans were started $225, and that includes the round last year and were made in trip charter flight, four days and 

SMITH 
cooperation with James D. nights in a motel directly across Cooney, Executive Director of the from Disneyland, and admission to Alumni Association, and Jim the game as well as several pre­Labarre, Manager of the Senior game social events in Los Angeles. 
11:15 -1:00PM WED, APR2 
Bar. The exact price, however "We're hoping for and expecting is dependent on exactly how many 

ducted scientific research, and organized international congresses throughout Italy. 
As an owner of many hott-!~ throughout Italy, Dr. Pallotta became acquainted with foreign students studying in Italy. In the 1950's, he organized courses for African students. In 1960, at the request of the President of Italy and the Ministery of Education, he organized the International House for .foreign students in Rome. 
Currently, Dr. and Mrs. Pallotta assist his sister, the Superior General of the Missionaries della Fanciulezza, in providing loving homes for needy and abandoned children in many Italian cities. 
Since 1970, Dr. Pallotta has collaborated with the ad­ministration of Saint Mary's College, lending his expertise to help make the College's Rome program more meaningful and culturally enriching. 
The degree ceremony was held in the Church of Santa Susanna, with a reception dollowing at the Hotel Tiziano. This hotel is the "home" of the Saint Mary's College students, while par­ticipating in the Rome program. Among the guests were Guiseppi Lazzati, president, Catholic University of Milan, Guilio An­dreotti, former prime minister of Italy, Franco Malfatti, minister of public instruction, and numerous religious, senators, deputies, and prefects from Milan, Turin and Navara. 

Bill Pumphrey Terry Billger 
'!caraft cr vcar~ scmestcr Iartcr scmcstcr, thc CollcgcMastcr' from Fidclitv Union Life has bccn thc most acceptl>d, most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call thc Fidclity Union CollcgeMaster·· Ficld Associate
. 

m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
Chamber of Deputies. He was Minister of Education for Italy. He appointed Undersecretary of State made vital sweeping changes in in 1954 and has served in that administrative and scholastic capacity in various ministries: organization, affecting personnel labor and welfare, justice, internal status, management of schools, affairs, and the President's modernization of curriculum in council. both secondary schools and 

Dr. Scalfaro continues to be a servant of his fellow Italians. Always active in the Christian Democratic Party, he is currently chairman of the Legislative Office of that party. 
In conferring on the Honorable Oscar Scalfaro the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, Saint Mary's College is heartened "to find the lofty ideals of Catholic Action working effectively toward peace and justice and security in the reality of our time." 
Dr. Licio Pallota is honored by Saint Mary's College with the degree of Doctor of Humanities, honoris causa. 
After graduating from the University of Rome, Licio Pallotta's academic career was interrupted by World War II, during which he was a prisoner in a concentration camp in Germany. When peace was achieved, he was able to return to teaching and academic administration, and devoted his free time to organizing cultural and educational programs for families of students and returning war veterans. 
With the blessing of His Holiness Pope Paul VI and at the urging of the Minister of Internal Affairs, Dr. Pallotta conducted a massive campaign against tuberculosis, which ravaged Italy after the war. For four years he edited a periodical relating to the tuber­culan problem, cooperated with the American Occupation Force in x-ray diagnosis, personally con~ 
-----~--­
-~--·­

Tuesday, April 23, 1974 th,~,opserver,. 7. 
' ' • I . 

Campus Briefs • • • 
International cultural festival to be held 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
An evening of cu.or. song, dance, and cultural heritage await all attending the fourth annual In­ternational Festival this Saturday at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
The event is sponsored by the International Students Organization of Notre Dame and St. Mary's and is hosted chiefly by foreign students attending N.D. or S.M.C. 
According to General Chairman Julio Baez, "the purpose of the festival is to show the gratitude of the international students to the Notre Dame and South Bend communities for their hospitality." 
All students and South Bend 
residents are invited to attend the 
festival, and admission is free, he 
added. 
A program of dances, folksongs, 
and instrumental pieces, 
representative of other cultures 
and countries is scheduled. 
The festival will open with a 
glimpse of American folklore by 
singer-guitarist Nancy Serton, 
followed by a Chinese operetic play 
performed by Chicagoan Nei Liu. 
Professor George Hu of Chicago 
will demonstrate the art of Kung 
Fu, while a Siamese dance will be 
presented by Chinese grad student 
Kam Chandrasarth. 
Mexican songs will be played on 
the piano and guitar by Elena 
Quintero, the wife of an ND 
student, and folk songs from India 
will be sung by Vijaya Shah. 
Members of the Chinese 
Association singing a Chinese 
chorus, and a Lithuanian dance 
group from Chicago will also 
perform. The evening will con­
clude with Latin-American music 
by the Pan-American Club of Notre 
Dame. 
Nominations for SMC government positions open 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

Nominations are now being 
accepted for hall presidents, vice­
presidents, and student assembly 
representatives by St. Mary's 
student government, according to 
SMC Hall Life Commissioner Ann 
Smith. 
The nominations opened on 
Friday, April 19 at 8 a.m. and will 
close at midnight tonight. 
Campaigning is slated to begin 
tomorrow at 8 a.m., and to con­
tinue through midnight, Sunday 
April 28. said Smith. 
EMERY AIR FREIGHT 
Makes going 
home easy!!! 
1. 
Pick up at your dorm 

2. 
Deliver at your home .-anywhere in the free world 


for details call: 

233-3127 
Elections will be held the following day. Resident students will vote in the lobby of their present dorms for candidates of the halls they will live in 11ext fall, she said. Off-campus md day students will vote for thei · student assembly reps in the LeMans lobby. 
Positions open in student assembly include: three each in Holy Cross, Regina, and McCandless Halls, five in LeMans, and one each for the off-campus and day students. 
Students interested in running should contact either Smith at 4050 or Legislative Commissioner Joanne Garrett at 4040. 
Margret Chase Smith coming to Bulla Shed 
Former Senator from Maine, Margaret Chase Smith, will be the special guest as Campus Ministry resumes its luncheon program at the Bulla Shed this Wednesday, April 24 at 11:15 a.m. 
Ms. Smith will be the sixth guest since the luncheon series began last November. Preceding her were Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Dunne, Deans Macheca and Lally, Digger Phelps, and playwright-actor Jason Miller. 
A lunch consisting of submarine sandwiches, chips, homemade cookies, and drinks will be served. There will be ample time to question and dialogue with Ms. Smith. 
Evening with 
candidates 
to be scheduled 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame faculty and students are invited to attend a "Meet your Candidate for State Represen­tative Night" Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Fiesta Lounge. 
Six Democratic candidates for the two positions on the ballot for 9th District State Representative are expected to attend the meeting. Also expected to attend are the two Republican in­cumbents, who will also appear on the May 7 primary ballot. 
The Democratic candidates are Elizabeth Bauer, Allen Speicher, Edward Malo, Joseph Schmidt, Thomas Harvey, and Richard 


Hairstyling .•. with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere 

+ Roffler Styling and Products 

KEN'S DEN 

First Floor, 100 Center Mishawaka, Indiana Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 

NOW RENTING 
c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:

M + 
SWIMMING POOL 

p 
+ COMMUNITY BUILDING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM u APARTMENTS 
s 
+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 



v 
+ 
REFRIGERATOR 


+ GARBAGE DISPOSAL 
TENNIS COURT

I + 
E 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM 
CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH
w 

THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood m2nagement company 3012 east edison road, south bend· 
Bodine. The Republicans are a five to seven minute opening Robert DuComb and Richard presentation. In the event a Lindsey. candidate cannot appear Wed­
The format for the evening is a nesday, he will be allowed to write panel discussion in which each a statement to be read aloud candidate will be allowed to make during his allotted time. 
-.. -­
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Pioneer SX-626 receiver. 11 months old, in excellent con­Found: 1 basketbaII in back of 
LOST AND FOUND 
dition and still under bookstore. Call 7969. 
Warrantee. $200. Jim 1487. 
Handmade India! Turquoise notebook; IMPORTANT!!! Jewelry from New Mexico Call Larry 3301. 
Lost in Space Tech: Soc-Psych. 
Fine selection of bracelets, 
rings, watchbands, accesories. Lost ring. White gold with blue Call 7833 or drop by 10 Lyons. stone and N.D. encrusting. Engraving is N.L.M. '75. Call 
1968 Chevy Imp. Custom VB, 8810. 
blue, radio, excellent tires, 
clean, reliable. $800, Jim 283­Found: Set of keys in a leather 7733 1-4. case in the A. V. Theatre of Continuing Ed. Center Call FINALLY!! Kerovac 
6423. Biography in paperback. Good 
reading. Now at Pandora's Lost: Silver medal (Head of Books. Christ) on chain. Important 
memento. Please Call 86~3. Sanyo 3300 KA Quad receiver at 20 watts, per channel R.M.S. Lost: Vicinity of 442 H.C. N.D. JVC demodulator, 4 speakers. class ring. Engraved: GADDG Excellent condition 5 months '75. Call Glen Gorski 233-6247. 
old. List $845. Can be had for 
$575. Call ed. 1506. Lost: 1974 N.D. ring; Blue stone. Initials KPMcK: FOR RENT Probably on interhall softball field, Tuesday, April 16. Call For Summer Rental. Large Kevin 3138. REWARD. 
nice house, 4 bedrooms. Jully furnished. Utilities. washer . Lost: N.D. ring Saturday dryer included. Approx. $185 a 
Initials MKD. Reward. $10. 
month. 234-1972. Call Marty 8253. 3 man house for summer. Good NOTICES 
location on Notre Dame Ave. 
Call Gary 1373. CHEAPEST WAY TO TRAVES! SCOOTER Britain­
5 bedroom house for rent near Europe $33 a week. Lambretta­
campus. Excellent condition. seats two. Also Worldwide 
233-1032. Overland Camping and lowest air fares. Trail Blazers TOLL 
House for Rent: 4 bedroom FREE 800·223·5586. 
mewly furnished wall to wall carpeting. Close to campus. Experienced typist will do; 
Available for summer and fall term papers, manuscripts, etc. 
ocupency. Graduate students Call 233-5332. 
only. Call AI Brasseur 289-2463 
before 5 p.m. SUMMER STORAGE: Reserve space mow at Mrs. WANTED Cooper's -clean, dry, secure and reasonable. Will pick up 
Wanted: 2 girls needed all day outside dorm. 272·3004. Wednesday by Hallmark Rep. 
Light work, good pay. Call THE DOMINICANS Paul 7937. educators, preachers, pastors, missionaries, counselors. A Need: Junior Acct. Major 
community of men praying and living in South Bend. For part working together, bringing the time work during summer, 
Word of the Gospel to the next school year. 6·8 hrs week. spiritual, intellectual and Work at your convenience. 291· social needs of the world today. 2280. 
Write to Rev. Joseph Payne O.P., 5 Hill House Avenue, New Person to work 30+ Hours. 
... 

Haven, Conn. 06505. Alternate publications; distribution. Low!. Good fella 
Go Cheap Truck: For baggage workers. Call 232-8500 after to New York. Expert handing 5p.m. at the lowest prices Call Bob or Mike 1248 Frank 8823. 
Bikeless couple willing to store two bikes (1 man's and 1 GRADUATES: Would you like over summer
woman's) to teach for two years. in 
vacation in exchange for their Samoa (South Pacific) See Fr. 
use for evening recreation. Schlaver La Fortune -7308 
Call Don Bouffard at 7354. Other opportunities available. Need used piano will pay $$ PERSONALS 
Call Jim 1171. 
HOUSE PARENTS: Married MARKED 384. PLEASE CALL 
PERSON WHO FOUND KEYS 
couple, prefereably without 1867 AGAIN. FORGOT TO children to live in Gilrs Group GET YOUR NAME AND Home. Room and board plus NUMBER. THANKS. ANDY monthly salary. $400 upward AT 384 DILLON. depending on experience, 
Jummer job with posibility of 
CLYDE-You'll always be our continuation. Husband may number one ugly man. Love, work or study outside Home. Burls, H.D., !Jlgs, Wires, Oil, Time off is provided. Call Mrs. 
Flash, Basic, A.Breem B., Carol Wilken at 233-9491. Kratch, J.T., Proph, Oaky, Bobo and the T's., E Squared, HELP WANTED! OVERSEAS Big Man, Case, Wad (I.E. JOBS Australia, Europe, S. forever), Totential. America, Africa. Students all 
professiona and occupations Secret Admirers: Great $700 to $3000 monthly. Ex­flowers! Great surprise. penses paid, overtime, 
Thanks FKWDJB. sightseeing, Free information. TRANS WORLD RESEARCH Gilr wanted: Babysitter. Tall, CO. Dept. F3 P'O' Box 603, 
blonde, and Wholesome. Corte Madera, CA. 94925. (Type: Mother-image) For interview Call Chuck 233-6973. Part-Time Help, weekend 
evenings parking cars. Call FOR SALE 291-5131 Mr. Quinn. 
FURNITURE: Living room Wanted: 1 or 2 bedroom 
and cedroom. Excellant apartment for mattied couple. condition, reasonable price. Must be within walking Must relocate. Call 272-0456. distance of I.U.S.B. Call John 
282·1568. Webcor Stereo. Includes am and fm Farrard Automatic turntable . Stereo S-track -2 Webcor speakers. Excellent sound -Excellent condition. $325 Call 1024. 
~~~~~--~------------~~-----------------J 
the observer Tuesday, April 23, 1974
8

.. 
Irish hit, but split with Bulldogs 
by Sam Vannucci 
It was a great day for Coach 
"Jake" Kline's Irish baseball 
squad even though their un­
believable offeiJsive performance 
netted them only a single win in 
yesterday's doubleheader with 
hard-hitting Ferris State 
University. 
During the course of the two afternoon games, 56 hits-­. including 6 home runs, 7 triples, 
and 11 doubles--were sprayed 
around windy Cartier Field while 
an amazing 46 runs were scored. 
In the opener, Notre Dame 
shortstop Jimmy Smith's sixth 
inning three-run homer paced the 
Irish in a 15 hit, 11-8 victory over 
the Bulldogs. Ferris State had 
opened the game by pounding Irish 
pitcher Jim Sholl for 3 quick runs. 
Notre Dame, however, picked up 
one in the bottom of the inning 
on three consecutive singles by 
Tom "T-Bird" Hansen, Pete 
Clemens, and Mark Schmitz. 
The Irish jumped into the lead in 
the second inning when Jim Smith 
opened with a triple and then came 
home when Bob Stratta 'reached 
on an error. Centerfielder Dick 
Naussbaum smacked a single and 
went to second base on another 
Bulldog miscue before Hansen 
rapped a single scoring Stratta. 
Mark Schmitz knocked in the 
final run of the inning with a line 
single. 
Ferris State regained the lead briefly in the top of the third when they pushed across two runs. ND tied it at 4-4 in their half when Pat Coleman walked, went to third on Pete Schmidtz' double and scored on Stratta 's sacrifice fly. 
The game wasn't deadlocked for long though as a 4th inning home run gave Ferris State a 5-4 lead and sent Scholl to the locker room. But again the Irish bounced back in the bottom of the inning. Naussbaum singled and scored on Hansen's triple. Although the senior captain from Erie, Pa. was thrown out trying to score on Mark Schmitz's grounder, the Irish managed to nudge into the lead when Coleman tripled home Sch­mitz. 
Remarkably, the 5th inning was void of scoring, but in the sixth, Ferris State hit Irish relief pitcher Marty Serena for 2 more runs and once again regained the lead 8-7. The Irish rallied as rightfielder Ron Goodman tripled and came home on Schmitz's single. Pete Schmidt walked and Jim Smith belted his game-winning homer to stake the Irish to an 11-8 lead. Serena retired the Bulldogs in order in the top of the seventh to gain his second win of the season against no losses. 
During the first four innings of the nightcap it looked as if Notre Dame was playing the Cincinnati Reds instead of Ferris State, as the Bulldogsshot to a 12-1 advantage. In the 5th, however, the Irish jumped on Bulldog pitcher Ed Powers for six runs. 

It started when Bob Stratta reached first on a walk and Dick Naussbaum 's single moved him to third from where he scored on Pete Schmidt's sacrifice fly. Tom Hansen singled and Schmitz walked before Coleman, Smith, and Goodman stroked consecutive run-scoring singles . 
Ferris State added a run in each of the 5th and 6th innings to vault them into an almost un­surmountable 14-7 lead. 
But the Irish refused to die. 
Naussbaum walked, but was 
forced at second base on Schmidt's 
fielder's choice. Hansen smashed 
a single to right but he too was 
forced on Schmidt's fielder choice. 
That made it 2 down with men on 
first and third and set the stage for 
an incredible Irish rally. 
Coleman drew a walk to load the 
bases, Jim Smith belted a long 2­
run double, and then Ron Goodman 
blasted a 3 run homer, his first of 
the year, to make it 14-12. 
Stratta and pinch hitter Gary Mayer both singled in front of T­Hird Hansen's clutch infield hit which scored Stratta and closed the gap to one run, 14-13. Schmitz walked to again fill the bases before Pat Coleman was called out on a disputed "neck-high" third strike. 
It's what's up front. that counts 
by John Fineran 
In front of every successful backfield there are six blockers, six nobodies in the eyes of many spectators. These linemen never get any headlines. For them, recognition is a pat on the rump from a grateful runner after a successful play. 
Last season, Notre Dame's season perhaps can be described in two plays, both of which culminated in touchdowns by Eri'e Penick. The first was the elec­trifying 85-yard scamper against Southern Cal. Leading the way for Penick was All-American guard Frank Pomarico. 
The second was a shorter run of 15 yards in the Sugar Bowl against Alabama. Some seem to think the play was made after Tom Clements misdirected the 'Barna defenders with his deft ballhan­dling. But this was only half the play. The other half involved Dave Casper, ND's All-America tight end. All he did was personally demolish two 'Barna defenders to free Eric for the score. 
Both Pomarico and Casper will graduate in May, and for line coaches Wally Moore and Brian Boulac, finding their replacements and some added depth at the other line positions will be a key in Notre Dame's attempt to successfully defend its national championship. 
"We have to work on the little things to make ourselves a better ballclub," Boulac says. "We have to be in the right place at the right time." 
Although the right time won't be until next fall, the right place to find replacements and depth is Cartier Field, particularly during spring drills. Hopefully, all the experimenting the two coaches are now doing will pay dividends during those 11 autumn weeks. 
One of the experiments Moore is involved in is making Steve Quehl, a 6-4, 240-pound junior and former tight end, the kind of complement to senior-to-be Gerry DiNardo as Pomarico was. 

"Steve's strong point is his versatility," Moore says. "He's a good, all-around athlete who can play any position on the line. 

experimental. In fact, Boulac hopes Robin Weber, the 6-5, 238­pound sophomore who gained notoriety catching Clements' endzone pass in New Orleans, can step right in. 
"We feel Robin is a good 
prospect," Boulac continues. 
"He's improved his blocking and is 
an adequate receiver. 
"Although he still is a long way from Dave, Robin has built his confidence and our confidence as well. He might not have the blazing speed to catch a ball deep, but he'll catch the ball." 

Injuries certainly can hit with an unpredictable frequency, and since Moore and Boulac don't have the numbers to work with they would like, each is trying to use his material to ·the team's best ad­vantage. That means several players might show up on the depth chart in more than one position. 
Moore is attempting to make AI Wujciak (6-2, 225) and Elton Moore (6-1, 237), both current second-
guard that is. In other words, he'll 
have both players working at each 
guard position. 
Vince Klees (6-4, 220) and Ken Andler (6-6, 238) are both in the swing of things, too. Each player is not only fighting for the second spot behind incumbent center Mark Brenneman, but each will see spring action at offensive tackle as well. 
The prototype for all this two­position madness was, of course, Casper, who lettered at both tackle and tight end during his career. Boulac has four players who could go both ways -Weber, Tom Fine, Quehl and Ed Bauer -but only Bauer (6-3, 233) is seeing current action at tackle, a position manned by an experienced pair of Steves -­Neece and Sylvester. 
"Both Sylvester and Neece played well last season," Boulac says. "They have the game ex­perience, something you can't take away. 
"Neece's greatest asset is his 

Despite the heart-breaking loss, it was a magnificent day at the plate for Notre Dame. Captain 
straight-ahead blocking. He's 
good, strong kid besides being an 
excellent blocker. 
"Sylvester has good feet. He is 
quicker afoot than Neece. He's a 
very flexible blocker, competent 
as far as assignments." 
Moore has two returning vets 
himself in DiNardo and Bren­
neman. "Gerry has great 
quickness and is a good, heavy 
hitter," he says. "His two years of 
game experience make him our 
leader on the line. 
"Mark's strength is his great 
attitude, his willingness to learn and adjust. He's a strong hitter with good timing and has the ex­. perience from last season of playing the best middle guards in the country. If he learned how tc handle the best, he should cer­
tainly handle the lesser." 
Although both coaches seemed 
concerned with consistency and 
the emergence of other individuals 
in the line besides those men­
tioned, they are both happy with 
the group's retention. :r:o':':/::>':}':!~:':§m "The retention from last fall is 
the most encouraging thing at the 
moment," Boulac admits. Moore 
adds, "Several times this spring 
we've run plays we hadn't timed 
up and it was still there with the 
players." 
"We've trying to expose them to everything possible," Moore continues. 'You should never be happy with what you have." 
"We're doing the right things; the concepts are there," Boulac concludes. "We have to eliminate the blown adjustments, though. We're in a much better situation this spring than we were last year at this time or even the beginning of the fall." 
Last fall, just a week before the season, the Irish knew Pomarico would be missing and there was a chance Casper might also be ab­sent. These were, perhaps, for­tunate occurences, because it allowed both coaches to find and instruct inexperienced players like Moore and Weber. 
This spring, however, Wally Moore and Brian Boulac don't have to worry about inexperience as much. It might be an omen for even more more pats on linemen's backs this coming fall. 
Tom Hansen led the Irish barrage 
with 6 hits, while Jim Smith (4 hits 
and 5 RBI ) and Dick Naussbaum 
(4 hits including his first HR in his 
4 year Notre Dame career) added 
plenty of support. 
The 11-17 Irish host the 
Wolverines of Michigan this af­
ternoon in a doubleheader 
beginning at 1 o'clock at Cartier 
Field. 
Tracksters show winning form 
by Hal Munger 
This past weekend's ex­ceptional weather here also prevailed in Columbus, Ohio, and it spurred the Irish tracksters to an impressive performance in the Ohio State Relays. No team title was at stake, but the Irish came through with some outstanding individual performances, setting new Notre Dame and meet records. 
The two-mile relay squad of Mike Housley, Jim Hurt, Jim Reinhart, and Mike Gahagan crossed the tape first in 7:34.4 to shatter the former mark of 7:35.0 set by ND in 1970. 
Mike Hogan, sophomore from hometown Mishawaka Marian High, won the pole vault and erased the 1965 Notre Dame record of 15-1 with a vault of 15-8. 
Another successful ND relay team was the 4-mile crew. Friday they (Jim Reinhart, Jim Hurt, Joe Yates, and Mike Housley) placed third in the afternoon competition, and discus thrower Bill George finished seventh. 
In action Saturday, Paul Mar­ticello, Bob Schott, Jim Clouse, and Vic Pantea collected fifth place in the 880-yard relay with a 
1:29.6 timing, only 2.3 seconds off winning Cleveland College's time. 

Mike Hogan, who has con­sistently jumped around 15-0 this season and last, got the added boost he needed from a new pole. 
"I used the new pole and was able to clear 15-8," said Hogan. 
Hogan is confident he can break the 16 foot height and therefore be within reach of the NCAA qualifying height of 16-3. 
This weekend Hogan, the 4-mile relay, and distance medley teams will travel to the Drake Relays where over 40,000 people will view some of the stiffest college and amateur track and field com­petition in the nation. 











