----------~~------~------~~-~--~·~--------------~-­
OD The Inside 
Observer Insight ... page 3 
Tea and Rice Results •••page 4 
Vol. IX, No. 55 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, December 3, 1974 
Calls lor counterattack on hunger 
Hesburgh's Holiday Mass 'impressive' 
by Matt Yokum 
Staff Reporter 
University President Fr. fheodore M. Hesburgh's Thanksgiving Mass last Tuesday has been evaluated by faculty and students as "most impressive." In his sermon, Hesburgh asked people to change their life styles and eating patterns during the coming months in a massive coun­terattack on world hunger. 
Hesburgh urged that "students join students from other universityies and high schools in the nation­wide effort to double our aid to the hungry. Fac­ulty and administrators in formal education must clarify the issues of world hunger and provide moral leadership by solutions that are long range as well as crisis-oriented," he said. 
In his sermon, Father Hesburgh compared the current situation to the "holocaust of six million Jews being slaughtered in Germany", and called on world leaders to act before the present situation reaches the terrifying proportions of the previous holocuast. 
Br. Joseph McTaggart, assistant director of campus ministry termed Hesburgh's sermon as "an impassioned homily on the need to address this issue." McTaggart recalled Hesburgh's feeling that leaders not addressing these problems and spending excessively on armaments should be put out of office. "I think Hesburgh felt it in his guts, he has seen hunger and poverty." McTaggert said. He interpreted the sermon as a call to "live a more frugal lifestyle an show more concern where we spend our extra money." 
The mass was attended by an enthusiastic congregation of approximately four hundred students, many of whom had joined in the tea and rice meal that evening. 
University General Counsel, James A. Roemer was "very impressed with the community that was there." Roemer characterized Hesburgh as a "leading exponent of the cause, a man that has shown concern for this problem for a year and a half and was sort of a voice crying in the wilderness." This is the first time people in his own backyard were supporting this cause in a significant way by coming together as a community." 
Roemer stated Hesburgh's talk "said in effect we are at crossroads and people here should make commitment to change their view of the world." Roemer recalled Hesburgh repeating Christ's command, to'clothethe naked a~ and ~d the 
hungry." Roemer called the sermon a religious challenge, this is what love really consists of." 
Roemer also remembered Hesburgh recalled the late President Johnson as saying if his Presidency had pulled 1,000,000 people out of poverty he would be satisfied. · Hesburgh remarked that . un­fortunately under Nixon many of the gains were subsequently lost. Roemer summed up the mass a "a dramatic moment and a beautiful evening, but not a light one." 
Hesburgh cited the academic community at Notre Dame as a prime example of the potential that one community holds within itself. He invited those listening to offer themselves in any way they could, especially for world leadership, to aid the hungry people of the world. 


Senior Joe Corpora called the sermon "ex­ceUent." "It makes you really realize what the word Christian means in today's world," Corpora stated. "Hesburgh brought the sermon down to a personal level," Corpora concluded. 
Basketball Coach Digger Phelps stated he was "impressed with the presentation and the service." Phelps, who has been active in the coalition against hunger, said Father Hesburgh is trying to create "an awareness of the immediate problem and also of long range goals." Phelps agreed with Hesburgh, saying, "I personally feel as a human being that we have to become aware that we should be concerned wilth the situation if we are to realize what Christianity means." 
Dr. Tijaard Hommes, Associate Professor of Theology, also called sermon "very impressive." Hommes stated he was particularly affected by "the very concrete way Hesburgh showed the implication of spending here as compared to spending elsewhere." Hommes recalled .Hesburgh suggesting that perhaps $250 for a football weekend could be used to innoculate hundreds of people. 
"Usually when you hear these figures like 10,000 people dying a day it is too mind blowing to per­ceive," Hommes said. "When Hesburgh compared it to how much the 10 cent for a bag of potato chips can do for the hungry, you can see how much we could help with our money," he continued. 
Father Hesburgh cited the many ways that people can unthinkingly waste resources that would have a tremendous effect if put into use in the right areas. Among these wastes were things that many people consider commonplace, such as cigarettes, snacks foods, and fertilizer. 
Hommes added "a lot of us at the University, at our level of education, are liberal enough and have enough goodwill that we are concerned with hunger, yet we often forget that this crisis should influence our daily decisions." "We need daily reminders," Hommes said. "The rice meals, the service, the sermon can help change our mind-set and how we live our own life, by acting as symbolic reminders," Hommes concluded. 
An anonymous student stated, "I was really psyched up." She felt Hesburgh pointed out "everyone whould do something but he left it up to you to figure out what.'' 

During televised press conference 

Ford discusses Russian arms agreement 
WASHINTON (UPI) -Against growing criticism, President Ford defended his Vladivostok summit arms agreement as one which ultimately will cut spending on strategic weaponry and avoid a spiraling arms race. 
At a televised news conference, the first since his return from his trip to Asia, the President said the agreement with Soviet Communist leader Leonid Brezhnev will limit each side to "a firm ceiling" of 2,400 strategic nuclear missiles or bombers of which 1,320 can carry multiple warheads capable of hitting more than a single target. 
"It's a good agreement and I believe the American people will buy it," Ford said. 
Turning to domestic issues, the 
President paraphrased Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt's historic reassurance in his 
1933 inaugural that "the only thing we 
have to fear is fear itself." 
Ford said today's situation does not 
necessitate such a reassurance but "It's a 
good thing to remember" anyway. 
"We are going to take some lumps and 
take some bumps," he said but he ex­
pressed confidence the nation would 
overcome the triple challenge of inflation, 
recession and the energy shortage. 
Against a drumbeat of advice from some 
of his own top adminostrators that the 
gasoline tax should be sharply increased to 
curtail U.S. consumption of imported 
pertroleum, Ford ruled out a 20-c~nt-a­
gallon tax increase but did not mention a smaller boost. 
This was considered significnat since most of his advisers-including Treasury Secretary William E. Simon, Interior Sevretary Rogers C.B. Morton, and Chairman Arthur Burns of the Federal Reserve-have been talking about a 10 cent boost. 
Ford said polls show 81 per cent of Americans oppose a 20-cent-a-gallon increase so Congress probably wouldn't pass one anyway. 
Before the election, on the campaign trail, Ford had said the gas tax would not be raised as long as he was President. 
Sens. Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash., and Barry M. Goldwater, R-Ariz., have been critical of the Vladivostok agreement. Jackson said it produced no reductions in strategic weaponry, presented an in­soluble verification problem and set too high a ceiling on multiple independently targeted re-entry vehicles. 
NIRV's, missiles which can send warheads at a number of targets. 
Goldwater earlier Monday termed the agreement "just another play by the Russians to try to fool some of our detente­happy people." 
Against that criticism, Ford defended the accord as one which "very, very definitely" will result in savings on what the nation will spend in the future on strategic weapons. 
At the same time Ford declined to 
predict a drop in the size of the total defense budget. He said it will grow to substantitally below the forces which reflect inflation in the years to come. would result from an all-out arms race 
He spelled out the specific figures in the over that same period," he said. agreement, and called them "major "What we have done is to set firm and breakthroughs." equal limits on the strategic forces of each 
"These ceilings are wellbelow the force side, thus preventing an arms race with all levels which would otherwise have been its terror, instability, war-breeding ten­espected over the next 10 years, and very sion and economic waste." 
111111111llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll1111!11IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU1111111111UliE IIIII II DllllllllllllllnIIIIIi1111111; II 

the observer Tuesday, December 3, 1974 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPU-The Federal Energy Administration said new rules adopted Mondjy would stabilize or reduce heating oil prices innFebruary for eastern and northern states, but could lead to price increases in the rest of the country. 
SAIGON <UPU--Communist officers said Monday the alleged downing of an American pilotless drone over South. Vietnam is evidence of continuoing U.S. involvement in the Indochina war. 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-Housing Secretary James T. Lynn Monday reduced interest rates from 8.5 percent to 8.25 percent in the federal plan for conventional home mortgages. 
LONDON <UPH-Police raided homes in an nationwide manhunt 
and  arrested  suspected  Irish  Republican  Army  leaders  and  
bombers in several cities Monday.  
ATHENS-Archiboshop  Makarios,  the  deposed  president  of  

Cyprus, said Monday he did not expect any disorders when he returns to the island on Fridy. He warned that "such distrubances may give cuase and pretext to Turkey for further action in the island." 
ROME <UPI)-Jesuit leaders began three days of prayer andn­meditation Monday to prepare themselves to reexamine the role of their Roman Catholic order at a time of world upheaval and recent criticism from Pope Paul VI. 
TEL AVIV <UPI >-Members of Saudi Arabia's royal family have begun a behind-the-scenes struggle to succeed King Faisal as the 69-year-old monarch "grows older, physically and mentally," an Israeli newsletter said Monday. 

an campus taday 
4:30pm· seminar, "meuro-muscular control of flight in.lnsects" by dr. harald esch, coffee at 4 pm, galvin life aud. 
5 pm -vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
7:30pm· meeting, faculty senate meeting, 202 cce. 
7 & 9 pm ·film, "the hireling" spon. by student union, $1, eng. aud. 
6, 8:15, 10:30 pm .. movie, scrooae, $1, caroll hall 
CELEBRATING ADVENT 

AS A PRAYING PEOPLE 
A SPECIAL ADVENT SERVICE 


FR. SEBASTIAN 
MOORE, GUEST HOMILIST 
THIS WED., DEC. 4, 1 1 P.M. 
Sacred Heart Church 
-~ ~-~---~­



Plans to invite W"o.men's colleges to ND lor Mardi Gras cancelled 
by Robert Jacques Staff Reporter 

All plans for the traditional in­vitation of women from mid­western women's colleges to Notre 'Dame for the Mardi Gras have apparently been dropped. This includes the intentions of Zahm Hall, along with several other halls considering the possibility, to privately extend the selective welcome mat. 
The University will, however, extend its invitation to students of midwestern colleges and universities as far away as Detroit and Chicago. This practice has been a standard one for official, campus-wide activities in the past. In the case of the Mardi Gras, it will, among other things, serve to increase the profits of the event. 
A ruling from the Student Affairs Office several weeks ago put an end to the busing of women to the campus for social events. Fr. David Schlaver, Director of Student Activities, explained that for years the invitation process was handled by a South Bend resident, a Mrs. Mckosker, in an official-appearing manner. Schlaver stated that the practice has never been officially recognized by the University. 
Last year a great deal of 

controversy arose as to the fair­ness of the busing to the women of Notre Dame. In order to remedy the situation, Schlaver said he "gave the thing to Dan Sullivan <director of the Mardi Gras committee) several months ago to get rid of the busing." The recent ruling took precedence over any of 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Mid St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year} from 'The Observer !:loX Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
the committee's efforts. 
Currently Sullivan is working with the Student Activities Office in order to establish a social equilibrium on campus during the event. Sullivan was unavailable for comment. 
When the ruling was first made public, Doug Cox, the president of Zahm Hall, expressed plans for his hall to invite girls from Mundelein College in Illinois for the Mardi Gras. Later the plans were dropped. 
Cox explained that four halls are presently planning to invite girls from several area colleges in­cluding Mundelein, "for a private party.;, He added, "It will not be during the Mardi Gras." He refused to disclose the names of the other halls and the already seclected date for the event for fear of compromising the positions of the involved persons. 
Schlaver sees no conflict bet­ween Cox's plans and the newly established policy. He feels, however, that the females of the University should be allowed to participate in the social event. 
Concerning all campus social events in general, Schlaver said, "it's for the halls to take the initiative and adapt the programs to the campus situation." 
--~--~---~-~ ----------~---------------, Tuesday, Decemb~e~r-=3"--,-'-'19'-!.72_4_____c_t..:...h:...:e=----co=--=b....::.s:....:e:....:....rv.:....e-=--=-r-___3 
Weather hinders.student travel 
even forty minutes. When it the bus finally left for South 
by Tom O'Neil resumed at a slow pace later, Bend." 
Staff Inseer 

In southern Michigan it was the 
Observer Insight
worst snowstorm since 1886. For the rest of the eastern U.S. it was a 
traveller's nightmare as hundreds of thousands tried to return from Thanksgiving trips. 
The nightmare extended from snow fell from practically windless bumper" and "impassible." 
The westbound lanes of theVirginia where 92 persons died in a skies. 
turnpike between Cleveland andplane crash as far west as Iowa But the trouble for Notre Dame Toledo were the worst. Trafficwhere six persons died in a single students was getting to South Bend. The worst difficulties for stopped completely at some placescar accident on icy roads. More while some motorists left theirthan 20 inches of snow fell in areas many were reported from those who had driven on the Ohio or cars to stretch their legs andof southern Michigan and northern become acquainted
Ohio while winds of more than 90 Pennsylvannia turnpikes. more with 
their neighbors.
mph were reported in New Jersey. The roads were precarious and The National Guard was called the conditions of both caused them "It was a block party on the Ohio 
Turnkpike," one student com­out in Delaware. The radios were to be closed for hours while stranded motorists along the mented. "Some of the children wecrowded with reports of schools 
closing and warnings to motorists lengths of each were lodged by saw went to play in the snow while their mothers were walking the
to stay off the roads. Airports in local and state police in farm­mhouses, churches, schools, family dog. The other adults werePittsburgh, Chicago, Cleveland, restaurants, and even furniture usually grouped in between cars,Detroit, Buffalo, and even stores. Those not stranded and smoking cigarettes and sharingWashington were closed. 
And only in South Bend did it those who had not given up tried their holiday experiences." seem that the airport remained again in the morning, still crowded The traffic remained at a 
the highway making it "bumper to standstill for periods of twenty oropened while only 2.6 inches of 
Owners not involved 

Senior Club boycott denied 
there is evidence that the Senior and continue to make im­by Jeffrey M. Pecore Club has been taking some provements where necessary. 
Staff Reporter business away from other taverns, We're trying to provide an most local bars feel that the effect economical service to the students hasn't been that great. in a time when money is tight all
Rumors of a local bar boycott of 
A spokesman for Corby's said around.
beer and pinball machine vendors that the opening of the Senior Club "if we find that we have to raisethat sell to the Senior Club at Notre 
has had "no bad effects what­our prices in the future to handleDame have been flatly denied by soever" on their business. A all of our expenses we'll do so. ButRichard Kanser, manager of the bartender at Nickie's said that we won't raise them because local Library. 
the Club had hurt them at first, but bars want us to. We're not out to"Companies like Ford Vending that its effects had trailed off hurt anybody's business, but wehave machines in practically somewhat. "You've got to expect want to give the students reduced every bar in South Bend," Kanser some loss of business with their prices if we can."
said. "We bar managers have 
prices," he added. There was managerial changelittle influence on where these Kanser said he wasn't worried made at the Club recently. Whencompanies want to put their about the competition from the Macheca was asked if this changemachines." 
Senior Club. "We'll get our had anything to do with the in­
Ever since the Senior Club business anyway." cidents related to the boycott
opened in November, there has Dean of Students, John rumors he replied, "We were been talk of how the student 
Macheca, clarified the Senior having some problems and decided 
establishment's lower prices (30 Club's position as being one of that a change had to be made." cents a beer compared to at least 
serving the students. "We set our Macheca stressed that the change 50 cents elsewhere) were hurting prices at a rate that will enable us should not be viewed as a badlocal bars' business. Even though to pay for the recent renovations reflection on any one person. 



0-C STUDENTS 
STARVE A THIEF FOR CHRISTMAS I 
Leave Valuables: Clothes, Books, Stereos, Radios and Appliances with Volunteer Staff and Faculty Families for the Christmas Break 
CALL STUDENT GOV'T (283-7668) THIS WEEK 
LEAVE NAME AND PHONE NUMBER IF INTERESTED 
tore at"Vour Own Risk" Rather Than., 

Leaving "At High Risk" I 

columns of snowmen could be seen for miles in the medium1 strips. 
One car full of students av£.raged seven miles an hour between Cleveland and Toledo. Another car averaged 12. 
"It was the most frustrating example of holiday traffic I have ever seen," one student com­mented. "It took us 25 hours to get from New Jersey to Notre Dame." 
Another student, Paul Timmons, travelled by bus. "We pulled into Toledo about 10:30 Sunday night," he said. "The driver said nothing to us and then left the bus. We didn't know how long we'd be there. But after awhile we just left the bus to get something to eat. 
"The change machines in the depot were all broken," he con­tinued, "so we couldn't use the vending machines, or use the phones. When we went to some of the nearby restaurants the lines were unbelievable. I didn't get too mad, because what could you do about it? At 10:30 in the morning 
Fr. John Lahey, Rector of Stanford Hall, didn't make it back to Notre Dame in time to greet the students after the holiday. He is still stranded in Boston waiting for a flight to South Bend. A note on his door reads "Due to the snowstorm that blitzed much of the Northeast, Fr. Lahey's return has been delayed ... "' 
The pep rally scheduled for 8: 50 p.m.last night at the circle to meet the football team was postponed when the flight, due to arrive in South Bend at 8:35 was delayed. -Disappointed students stayed however until the players arrived hours Ia ter. 
Many students have still not returned to campus. One student from Keenan called his rommate at 8 a.m. Monday morning and told him "Don't wait up for me, buddy. I've been stranded in Toledo since yesterday afternoon. There's no telling when I'll get back." 
When last heard from, he was still in Toledo. 
THE RESIDENTS OF lYONS INVITE All FORMER lYONS RESIDENTS TO THE 

JINGLE BELL ROCK 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1974 AT THE SENIOR BAR 9:00-1 :00 
1\1\USIC BY THE BLANFORDS 
SOFT DRINK REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
r 
--------~------------~~----------------------­
the observer Tuesday, December 3, 1974
4 
Disagreement voiced over tea. rice meal 
by Jim Donathen Staff Reporter 
Disagreement over the number of students who intentionally skipped the tea and rice meal may cost the Hunger Coalition over $800. 
Only 735 of the 2018 students who had signed up for the dinner ate the rice meal last Tuesday, according to figures. Another 240 persons participated who had not signed forms. 
Twenty off-campus students purchased rice meals for $1.50 each bringing the total to 995. 
The Coalition apparently thought it would receive about 75 cents for 
DOONESBURY 
THANKS FrR 
>me CIJN(&RN, 
MRS. POCATEI-l-1, 
81/T I "THINK I CAN HANOI.-& THIS. 
I 
ClYP&, 11/t~ BEEN 
OV!iR TH/5 A [)()Z&N TIMES! YOU KNOfJ/ WHY Y{){} CAN'T /..IV& HER&! THE PLACE 
15 7lJO SMAU, I NEED MY PRIVAet; ANlJ IT'S 1-KJT FAIR 70I JOAN!&!
,....,.or--.,, 
each student who signed forms for O'Leary said the problem is the meal. The university would determining the number of have paid over $1500 to aid the students who had departed for world's hungry. Thanksgiving break. 
Though final determinations A report released yesterday .by have not been made, it appears Pric~ states: "Because of that the university will pay for only vac~ti?~ schedule, we can assume students who ate the rice meal. a stgmfiCant number of students The Coalition will receive about left the campus prior to the $750 or about $800 less than some Tuesday evening rice dinner." members had epected. O'Leary said the Coalition had 
"The reaction was enthusiastic hoped to make 75 cents on each tea and the friendliness of the students and rice dinner. The final amount was outstanding," said Dr. Basil will be. determined by. Price ~nd O'Leary, director of the non-Bro.. Kteran Ry~n, asststa_nt vice­violence program. "But, 1 think prestdent of busmess affatrs. the university owes us more money M~~Y Ann ~eomer, ~unger because they (students) didn't eat Coalibon coordinator, said she the meal." feels the food service will be fair. 
by Garry Trudeau 
AU RIGHT, NO«<­
ay~-IQHATGIY/3?! 
WH05A!O YW COfJL.[) MOV!f VIR61N!A, IN H&R!f?! I ... I 


"I don't think we should alienate 
the food service until we find out 
the full stody." She praised the 
cooperation of Price and Bro. 
Ryan. 

"I had hoped here would be more people," explained Roemer, But, only a short notice was given students and a lot had already gone home." 
The tea and rice dinner was sponsored by the Hunger Coalition, a group of students and faculty. The Coalition include CILA, Campus Ministries and the Program in Non-Violence. 
"I like the feeling I got from the students," said Roemer. I thought it was a very reflective time." 
The Coalition circulated a petition at the dinner urging President Ford to adopt Fr. Theodore Hesburgh's plan to aid the hungry. 
About 900 persons signed the petition. I sent President Ford the pettition, a letter and a copy of the Observer's Thanksgiving issue." 
Hesburgh has asked Ford to 

SMC 
THEATRE 
1974-75 Our Ninth Season 
approve the immediate shipment of 2 million tons of food aid followed by an additional 2 million tons after the June, 1975 harvest. 
"A questionnaire was also passed out to get a feeling of what students might be willing to do next semester," said Roemer. "But, we need to poll the entire campus. I think this is an im­portant goal." 
The questionnaire presented five suggestions for action. Students were asked to check the programs they would participate in. 
Five hundred thirty-seven of students polled would accept a meatless lunch or dinner once a week. Strong support was mustered for a regular fast with 530 students agreeing to skip lunch or dinner once a week. 
Three hundred ninety-six agreed to having meat only at the evening meal. The suggestion of meatless Mondays, Wednesdays and Friday s received only 178 votes. Only 83 persons approved a total vegetarian diet during the second semester. 
RESERVATIONS: 284-4176 (Business Hours) 283-7054 (Show Nights) 
Student -Faculty ND-8MC Staff $1.50 


A premiere production of this comedy-Intrigue In the absurd manne'l-bY NO graduate Christopher Ceraso. 
Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00P.M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
The Cultural Arts Commission of Notre Dame presents the Spring Semester Schedule 
of its Film Series 
Cinema '75 
Jan 16-17 Feb 4-5 Feb 13-14 Feb 23-27 

Feb 23  
~  Feb 24  
1c  Feb 25  
•  Feb 26  
•  Feb 27  

Mar 13-14 Mar 18-19 Apr 8-9 Apr 15-16 Apr 22-23 Apr 29-30 
Gigi American Graffitti Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams The Festival of Literary Adaptations 
The Heart is a -Lonely Hunter To Have and Have Not The Last Hurrah The Loved One Don't Look Now 
Panic in Needle Park The Last Laugh It Happened One Night The Seventh Seal Rashomon Brewster McLeod 
Admission to each film is one dollar,  but 275  
patron cards, admitting one person  to all of  
the  films  for  five dollars,  will be  on sale  

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday at the Student Union Ticket Office, in Lafortune Student Center 
--------------------------------'--------------.....J­
/
r 
------~t______ __ 
Tuesday, Dec:ember 3, 1974 the observer 
5 

Crash may have been prevented 
WASHINGTON. (UPI} -The Professional Air Traffic Con­trollers Organization said Mon­day the crash of a Trans World Airlines jetliner near Washing­ton Sunday, which killed 92 persons, probably could have been prevented by a radar system the government stopped using for commercial flights four years ago. 
PATCO President John F. Leyden said Precision Ap­proach Radar would have let 
controUers warn the pilot of TWA's Flight 514 that he was below his glide path and about to slam into the Blue Ridge Mountains. -The TWA Boeing 7'l:l hit just below the top of a 1,700-foot mountain ridge, killing all 85 passengers and seven crew­memhers _ 
Leyden released a letter that PATCO was sending to Presi­dent Ford calling for the rapid convening of "all interested aviation parties" to look for ways to solve the problem. 
-He said Prec1s1on ~pproacn Radar was removed from the commercial airline flight con­trol systems by the Federal Aviiation Ad~inistration about four years ago as an economy move. In some cases, he said, 
the  equipment is  sitting  unused  
in control  towers.  
The  approach  radar  lets  a  

controller monitor an aircraft through its entire landing approach, warning the pilot if he strays even a few feet off the planned glide slope. 
At the time the FAA quit 
Thanksgiving festivities attract cainpus leftovers to Chez Darby 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 
Thanksgiving festivities at Darby's Place for stranded students "went extremely well" according to the celebrated cocker spaniel's spokesman, University Chaplin Fr. Robert Griffin. However Griffin admitted that O'Gill was "slightly hung-over with the after-effects of the celebration." 
Between 400 and 600 students dropped in during the twelve hours Darby's Place was open Thanksgiving Day. Besides en­joying two showings of Darby's favorite movie, My Fair Lady, O'Gill's guests consumed seven eleven-pound hams, fifteen pounds of cheese, 25 cases of soda, five cartons of munchies and copious quantities of other delicacies. 
"We seemed to have the right amount of provisions," said Griffin, "It came out just the way you hope a party will come out­enough for everyone and you don't have to eat the left-overs for a week." 
Griffin originated the idea of opening Chez Darby on Thanksgiving for students who were unable to go home and his suggestion was quickly approved by the proprietor O'Gill. "Thanksgiving can be a very lonely time on campus," Griffin said, "and Darby and I thought we might be able to do something about it." 
There was a "good mood" among the visitors, Griffin thought. "Darby and I were only sorry we couldn't open up Friday and Saturday. Maybe we can do that another year." 
The Thanksgiving operation was made possible due to the expert assistance of the Ombudsman Service and O'Gill would like to extend public thanks to its valuble wizard Bill McLean and to Steve Lucero, community relations officer, his assistant Jack Pizzolato and Bob Bode, acting manager of Darby's Place. · 
"I felt the affair went very smoothly," McLeah said, "and I am proud that the Ombudsman Service could be part of this effort." 
McLean mentioned that Darby was assisted by plenty or workers and by members of the faculty and staff who contributed many "special Thanksgiving goodies." 
The only event marring the festivities was the theft of $500 raised from mass collections, student Affairs and Campus Ministry. The money, stolen from the Student Government offices last Wednesday, was temporarily replaced by a loan from Student Affairs. If the money is not recovered Student Government will absorb the loss. 
Only Continental gets you a flight, a chalet, a car, and lifts for $264 
~ 
Our exclusive new Rocky Mountain ski packages feature luxury furnished chalet studio condominiums a short walk from the lifts. It's the Ultimate Lift Ticket! 
Chicago-Breckenridge package covers: 
• 
Round-trip jet Coach airfare with tax, and meeting service at Denver Airport 

• 
7 nights lodging, 7 days skierized rental, 3 days lift tickets 

• 
Lowest possible prices, immediate package confinnation 

• 
Larger chalets available with one to three bedrooms for two to six people 


We have similar packages available at Vail, Snowmass/Aspen, Keystone, and Steamboat. All prices per person double occupancy, with state and local room and car taxes additional, as well as Christmas 
surcharge December 20th through January 4th. Rental-car gas and mileage extra; driver must I City State Zip_____ be 21 or over. 1 Phone___My travel agent is~-----­
We really move our tail for you. 

CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
For more infonnation,contact your travel agent or Continental at 686-6500, or send in the coupon. 
~------------------­
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES I P.O. Box 4187, North Hollywood, Calif. 91607 I I want to get in on the ground floor of that ski I chalet package program. Tell me more! 
II 

Name___________________________ I Address 
using Precision Approach Radar, it switched to cockpit­mounted instruments which tell a pilot whether he is on the glide slope when he is landing at a properly equipped runway. But Leyden said the runway Flight 514 was approaching at Washington'~• Dulles Interna­tional Airport was not even equipped f<11r this on-board Instrument Landing System. 
"Traditionally, we have got­ten changes in the (air traffic control) system as the result of tragedies," Leyden told a news conference. 
In his letter to Ford, he said "We, as air ~traffic controllers, responsible for the system, have made numerous pleas for action on this deficiency in the air traffic control system. Up to now, our requests have fallen on deaf ears." 
The letter said the controllers group felt this accident "could possibly have been prevented" by the proper approach system. It cited recent congressional testimony indicating that be­tween 91 and 95 per cent of all airline crashes in the past four years could have been avoided "had there been some type of warning device to alert the 
pilot of their altitude approach."  on final  
Leyden  said  the  military  

continued using Precision Ap­proach Radar when it was abandoned at civilian airports and that the Pentagon credits the radar with saving 21 aircraft from crashing in the past year alone. 
Glee Club sings Sunday 
The Notre Dame Glee Club, 

Chorale,  and  Chapel  Choir  will  
present  their  annual  Christmas  
Choral  Program  Sunday,  

December 8, in Sacred Heart Church. 
Two performances will be of­fered at 4 a111d 8:15 p.m. The Chorale, a highly-select mixed ensemble of 26 voices, will be making its first major public appearance of the year at this concert, although they have sung frequently for many occasions on the campus. 
The Choral1e will return early from the Christmas holidays in order to sing a concert at the Chicago Beveraly Arts Center on January 13. 
The Glee Club will be singing the numbers recently recorded on a special Christmas album, in­cluding three arrangements by their conductor, Dr. David Isele. 
The Chapel Choir, widely known for their musical offerings at the 
10:45 a.m. Mass at Sacred Heart Church, will sing four special Christmas pieces. Three of the numbers in the concert will be interpreted by Mary Van Mele and her Sacred Dance Choir. 

~6~---t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r______~T~~~Y· PKember3,19~ 
Northeastern U.S. paralyzed by snowstorm 
The first big storm of the season carried its fury from Michigan to the East Coast Monday, burying highways in huge snowdrifts, knocking out power, disrupting commuter lines, closing schools and stranding more than 35,000 persons. 
At least two persons froze to death in southwest Virginia, which was blanketed with more than 18 inches of snow, and dozens of weather-related traffic fatalities were reported across the storm-
front. National Guardsmen fought to 
clear the roads and rescue trapped shelters in Ohio, Michigan, Penn­motorists in the face of forecasts sylvania and Maryland, and the calling for more snow. Red Cross said no figures were yet
Michigan officials termed the available on West Virginia and storm the worst ever in December. Virginia.The Detroit News, largest af­The snow storm slowed about ternoon newspaper in the nation, haH of 120,000 striking coal miners 
did not publish because delivery from voting on a new contract was impossible-aparently the first proposal. It was called the worst time ever the paper's circulation storm in seven years in the eastern has been halted by bad weather. coal fields. 
The snowfall, ranging from 15 to Hundreds of residents fled 
21 inches, even deterred a men's beachfront homes in N'ew Jersey, 
group from picketing the Detroit where a heavy rain storm whippedPlayboy Club. up 80 mile per hour wind gusts and 
About 35,000 persons were 
caused millions of dollars in housed and fed at Red Cross damage: 
EhrIiebman blames Nixon for scandals, requests court delay for his testimony 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -De­fendant John D. Ehrlichman, contending that Richard M. Nixon was "at the heart" of the Watergate affair, today asked the court to excuse the cover-up jury over the Christmas holi­days to await testimony from the ailing former president. 
The prosecution called the proposal "unrealistic" on grounds that it would expose the jury -which has been sequestered for two months -to trial publicity. U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica declined to rule immediately on the re­quest. 
Ehrlichman's attorney, Wil­liam S. Frates, contended that Nixon is "an indispensable" witness and the trial cannot be concluded without his tes­timony. Doctors say that testimony could not come until January at the earliest. 
"In this regard," Frates said in the brief, "the government has contended and the evidence 
Darby's Place 
robbed of $487 
by Fre d Herbst Staff Reporter 
The Student Government Offices of the LaFortune Student Center were robbed of $487 belonging to Darby's Open House Fund and an IBM typewriter belonging to the Student Government last Wed­nesday morning. 
Ombudsman Director Bill McL~an stated that the theft oc­curred between 1:30 and 7:00a.m. Wednesday. A maid found all the drawers in the office open and at 
10:30 told the Ombudsman who discovered the loss and reported it to Campus Security. The theft of the IBM typewriter was also reported to the IBM company. 
The thief or thieves gained ac­cess to the offices through an unlocked student union door. 
While the $487 was stolen from a filing cabinet in the Ombudsman office, there was $35 on another that the thief did not touch. Some, including members of the University Administration, suggested that this fact indicates that the thief might be someone who is involved in the Ombudsman Service or Student . Government. 
Director of the Ombudsman Service Bill McLean doesn't believe it was an "inside job" and added "I trust my people." 
Fr. Robert Griffin, university chaplain had raised the money to finance Darby's Thanksgiving open house over the break. Mter discovering the theft, the Om­budsman Service borrowed $500 from Student Mfairs to hold the open house. 
now shows that Mr. Nixon was "a big hole in the case." at the heart of the activity Frates said it would now wh,ich the government now seem impossible to wrap up the seeks to contend is a violation nine-week trial by Christmas. of the laws of the United Thus, he suggested that the States." bulk of the testimony could be 
He added that Nixon could completed by Dec. 23 or 24, 
testify that Ehrlichman was not when the jury could be excused a part of a conspiracy and until January when Nixon would be "never entertained the corrupt providing a deposition from his 
intent" for which he was home in California. 
charged. Without Nixon's tes­The trial had been expected
timony, he said, there would be to end before Christmas. 
Tide rose 8 to 10 feet above 13,000 in 11 shelters in Somerset, 
normal from North Wildwood in 1Pa., 11,600 in 26 shelters in four 
Cape May County, N.J. to Point counties of southeastern Michigan, 
Pleasant Beach and Baby Head in and 900 in three shelters in western 
Ocean County, damaging property Maryland. 
and downing utility lines. The Red Cross asked all persons 
In New York City, metropolitan owning four-wheel drive vehicles 
highways were flooded by a 2.2 to come to the assistance of 
inch rainfall. Some suburban Long stranded motorists. 
Island homes were partly under "You might as well say Toledo is water· and without electricity. The closed today," said Glenn Taylor, 
sun broke through in the afternoon, a Toledo resident. 
but another storm was forecast for All schools and many plants in 
Monday night. the Toledo area were closed, and 
Western Maryland, recovering authorities said all roads leading to 
from Sunday's high winds and Michigan remained closed. 
heavy rains, was besieged by a 22-Motorists were warned to wait 
inch snow accumulation that nntjl they hear further news 
clogged rads, downed telephone bulle.tinsbefore attempting tocfrive 
lines, and closed schools. National Guard heavy equipment was mobilized to clear a 20-mile stretch of U.S. 40, which was closed Sunday afternoon. 
Bill Clark, a Maryland state police spokesman, said 400 to 600 marooned motorists "have taken refuge in two restaurants and a school." 
"We don't know how many people are stuck in cars, and we're afraid we've got to get them before nightfall, when conditions will probably worsen," he said. 
The Red Cross said 10,000 people were being housed in 24 shelters in the Freemont-Toledoareaof Ohio, anywhere in northwestern Ohio. 
"People trying to enter Michigan are being stranded in their cars or put up in farm houses and schools," a member of the Ohio Turnpike patrol said. 
The Michigan House called its Monday night session because so many of its members were snowed in at home. 
Rain, mixed with snow, fell from New England and the lower Great Lakes to Maryland. Sixty miles­per-hour winds forced the can­cellation of several nights from National Airport outside the Washington, D.C. area, and knocked out power in some areas. 


WE HAVE THE WIDEST SELECTION OF JEAN STYLES SO WHETHER ITS A CHRISTMAS GIFT FOR YOUR LOVER OR A LITTLE SOMETHING FOR YOURSELF. Y0UU FIND WHAT YOU WANT AND. IN CASE YOU COULDN'T TELL. WE HAVE TOPS TOO. 
Jus~rANi R"l~ 

Scottsdale Mall, So. Bend, Ind. 4053 S. Franklin, Michigan City, Ind. 
Th~ brand name MALE® denotes apparel manufactured only by H·K Corporation. Atlama, Geoq~1a 
Tuesday, December 3, 1974 the observer 
7 

Ic:!~.s' h_ustle not enough at MSU 
East Lansing. Remember Red Wilkie? Coach Lefty Smith never thought he would have to go through another officiating nightmare of referee Red Wilkie, after the infamous final playoffs against Wisconsin in March of 1973. Well Red showed once again, this time at Michigan State. 
The Irish lost to the Spartans 5-3 Friday night and tied 4-4 Saturday night. 
In Friday's game the Irish played evenup with the Spartans for most of the game, but a quick three goal burst by State in final period, along with some very dangerous officiating, spelled curtains for Notre Dame. 
Michigan State opened scoring at 14: 19 of the first period on a rebound goal by Brendon Moroney. 
ND goalie Len Moher made two initial saves on a shot by Tom Ross and the first rebound by John Sturges. Moroney found the _puck in the confusion around the Irish net and flipped it home. 
The Irish evened the score a little over a minute later on a power play goal by Pat Conroy. With Spartan goal tender Ron Clark called fora double minor, the Fighting Irish wasted little time in tallying the tying man advantage goaL 
Jack Brownschidle's slapshot from the point deflected off Pat Conroy's skates into the MSU net. Assistswere given to Brownchidle and Clark Hamilton on the goal at 15:20. 
Steve Colp scored his 85th career goal at 10:20 of the second period. Colp's goal placed him first in Spartan goalscoring, though the center from Toronto is only a junior. 
The Irish, despite a few offensive 
threats in the period, tied the score 
at 18: 19. Pat Conroy notched his 
second goal of the evening on a 
rebound shot out in front of the 
Spartan netminder. Give credit 
and assists on the score to wingers
Kevin Nugent and Don Jackson 
who both were persistent in their 
forechecking efforts. 
Even though the Spartans outshot 
Notre Dame 16-5, the teams were 
deadlocked 2-2 going into the 
locker room. 
State's hustle and determination 
from the second period carried 
over into a three blitz early in the 
final session. The three goals, all 
scored in 51 seconds, quickly gave 
the Spartans an insurmountable 
edge. 
Rob Harris, Daryl Rice, and 
Brendon Moroney scored 
respectively at :36, 1: 12, and 1:27 
into the last period. Notre Dame 
was beat on all three goals because 
of lack of hustle to the puck and not 
reacting quick enough to State's 
movement. 
ND scored its final goal on a hard 
slapshot by winger Clark 
Hamilton. Hamilton took a long 
pass from center Brian Walsh, 
skated around the State defense, 
and winged the puck high over the 
shoulder of Clark. Both goalies 
turned aside 10 shots in the final 
period, with Moher's game total at 
42, while Clark turned aside 32 
shots. 
In the third period not one 
penalty was called. The period was 
far from being clean, for the last 20 
minutes seemed little more than 
cross-checks, slashes, boarding, 
elbows, and other uncalled in­
fractions. 
As it was, Les Larson and Tim 
Byers of ND,Daryl Rice and Tim 
~cDonald sustained injuries as a · 1 005 E. LaSalle 

direct result of the irresponsibleofficiating. · 
Saturday night the Notre Dame hockey team outskated outhustled, and outplayed Coach Amo Bessone's Spartans for 70 minutes 00 minute overtime) but still could only manage a 4-4 tie. Again the officiating by Wilkie and Martmello left much to be desired. 
Alex Pirus opened the ND of­fensive attack early in the first period. Pirus dug the puck off the boards in the neutral zone and skated down his right wing. The big soph from Toronto beat goalie Ron Clark on a deep angle blast just 1:18 into the game. 
The sophomore line of center Brian Walsh, right wing Alex Pirus, and left wing Clark Hamilton gave ND a 2-o lead at 
14:07 of the period, on a 50 foot boomer by Hamilton. Assists were given to linemates Walsh and Pirus for their good backchecking efforts. 
Walsh's line again scored from the efforts as line working together, this time at 5:20 of the middle session. Walsh won the battle in the corner and pushed 
the puck out to Pirus who cen­tered to Hamilton, parked on Clark's doorstep. -Hamilton had little trouble in putting a wrist shot past Clark for the 3-Q lead. 
State tallied two quick power play goals because the Irish could not clear the puck after Peterson's initial save and did not control the man out front of the net. Tom Ross scored at 7:56 and 8:25 of the second stanza to cut Notre Dame's lead to 3-2. 
The Irish got one back on a power play goal of their own at 15:33, with Spartan Dave Kelly off for tripping. Again the sophomore line came up with the big score with Walsh getting credit for th~ goal this time. Pirus' blast from the blueline hit the post and Walsh was in perfect position to push in the rebound. An assist was also given to Hamilton, giving ND a 4-2 lead. 
Michigan State tightened the game in the third period on ND's failure to clear the puck out of trouble after Peterson's initial saves. Tim McDonald scored on a 40 foot slapper at 9:12 to make the 
score 4-3. 
State tied the game for good with only 24 seconds left in the game after Coach Bessone pulled Clark in favor of the sixth skater and the refs missed a blatant elbow in­fraction which sent ND frosh Don Jackson crashing into the boards and down to the ice. Steve Colp gained the tie for Michigan State at 19:36. Peterson had 13 saves in the final period and Clark 8. 
Notre Dame's dominance ex­tended into the overtime session, but just could not hit the net for the winner. All three lines, Walsh's, Conroys, and Olive's, pushed State 
(continued on page 8) 
************************************ 
* ~ IVJICHIGAN STBF:e:r * ~ 
i ADULT THEATRES i 
* * 
~ X 2 F1LJ.VJS ~ 
* * 
~ X BOOKSI'CH: ~ 
* * 
: X LIVE FLCXE SHOW l l* 1316 SOOfH MICI-IGAN STREEl' !* ~ CN.L 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION~ 
************************************ 
~---------------------------. 

Tom McM,JhOil 1\f R·<lll,lllO 
Gt'nt•l.ll 1\<!t'nt Aq!'nl 

'learafter, year,I semester after semester, the CollegeMaster from Fidelitv Union Life has 
Jim Tucker 
Agent been the most accepted, most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call the 
T!'ITY Adlqer Fidelitv Union Aqenf· 
CollegeMaster 
field Associate 
m your area: 
South Bend. Ind. Phone 287-2327 
. '~~ 
-~~ 
G)llcgcMastcr
Phd T~ah L 
· ·AQr•nt· 

MSU goalie ~ton Clark makes a save, adding to the Irish skaters' frustrating wetekend, as they lost 5-3 Friday and tied 4-4 Saturday, 
wI  N~. t  
RESERVATIONS  
SMC  284-4176 . ALL SEATS $.75  
T~~EATRE  
for  
YOUNG PEOPLE  
BEAUTY AND  THE  BEAST  

A New Drama for Young People Based on the Beloved Fairy Tale December 7l8, 14,15 at 2:00P.M. 
()'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
CLIRSSIFIED ADS 
FOR: SALE 

Merry Christmas, 4 month-old 300 watt compon,~nt stereo system. 41 percent of list price. Steve, 1403. 
season basketball tix. Cheap. Call Pat, 3626. 
Two $8.50 Orange bowl tix. Will cut price. Ca II 287-4962 or 234-6361. 

Must sell Bentwood rocker, $70. Call Margaret after 4:00p.m. 288· 2759. 
WANTED 
We are looking for men and women over 18 who enjoy the outdoors to deliver the Penny Saver on Wednesdays. Must have tran­sportation. Apply in person Thurs. or Fri. from 9-6 at 52027 U.S. 31 North across from Pagoda Gar­dens Restaurant) or call' 272-1688 for appointm<ent. 
FOR RENT 

One-bedroom ape ment in Crestwood. Appliances furnished. Noise, no problem. Sublet through summer. 234-.5320. 
2 upstairs rooms, large bedroom ­den, available for student oc­cupancy. !)hare downstairs kitchen and bathroom. 3 miles from campus. Widow's pension allows no rent, share utilities . $32 a month. Call Mrs. Spencer, 233-4670 or 283-7052. 
2 rooms with kitchen, bar, and color tube. Owner pays utilities. $60 per month. Call 288-0144. 
LOST A,ND FOUND 
Found: at A. F. game. Hat and gloves in Sec. 30. Call Tim, 8944. 
NOTICES 
Saint Mary's College Summer Program in London, May 20-June 
20. Travel in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, France. College credit available. $865 plus tuition. Call 284-4951. 
Hamlet, starring Nichol Williamson, will be shown Sat., Dec. 7 at 7:30 and 10:00 p.m. in the Eng, Aud. $.50 donation. 
Big sale at Pandora's Books. Used books 2 for 1. These new books reduced 20 percent: Rock Dreams, Whole Earth Epilogue, Tolk.ein Deluxe Book. Set, Free Where Man Was Born, Lenny Bruce, Pad­dington Box Set. How to Play Rotten Guitar. Art books and more!. Sale lasts till Sun. 
Retreat this weekend, Dec. 6-8. Specifically for Alumni of TEC, COR, SEARCH, ENCOUNTER. Sign-up, Campus Ministry. 
Alumni of TEC, COR, SEARCH, ENCOUNTER: Retreat scheduled this weekend. Dec. 6-8. Sign-up, Campus Ministry Office, Library. 
PERSONALS 
Suzy: Hope your birthday is a real GROOVE! Marilyn, Nano, Mary Helen 
Patty and Bill: Happy Birthday, Wonderland Zoo and Molly too. 
Help us wish Kelly Cobb a Happy Birthday. Call 1347. 
In dire need of REAL honeys. Are tired of party friends, cheap daters, and general toads. Turkeys need not apply. Yours in cloisterism, Freshmen of 3rd floor B-P. 

! 
l• l 
l 
~ 
.... 

Tuesday, December 3, 1974

the observer 
ND title hopes shattered at USC 
by Greg Corgan 'third period and had taken a 41-24 
Sports Editor ; lead. 
USC quarterback Pat Hayden couldn't get on track In the first half, but in the second half completed six for six, for 189 yards and four touchdowns. 
One game told the whole story. And this time the ending wasn't a happy one. 
In fact it was almost bizarre the way the last game of the regular season so accurately summarized the entire year. From virtually unstoppable, and a 24-6 halftime lead, to ridiculously inept and a 55­24 embarrassment, the Irish told the story of their year once and for all. Hills and valleys, and in the case of Southern Cal's 55-24 win Saturday evening, the grand Canyon. 
But it's been like that all year as every a-ustrated ND football fan realizes. Sometimes the Irish have looked overpowering, beating Georgia Tech 31-7, Northwestern 49-3, Army 48-0, Miami 38-7, Air Force 38-0 and, in the first half Saturday, Southern Cal 24-6. Yet t)lese performances have been interspersed with mediocre wins against Michigan State 19-14, Rice 10-3, and Navy 14-6, and a dismal showing against Purdue, a 31-20 loss. But not even that defeat compared to the second half at L.A.'s Memorial Coliseum. The Irish lost there 49-0. 
Notre Dame's inconsistency was bound to catch up with them and this time it cost dearly. For now the Irish have no hopes of a national championship and only a strong showing against Alabama in the Orange Bowl will secure them a berth in the top ten. A loss 
· wouldn't have done that. 'A humiliation did. The big question, of course, was what exactly did happen. Nobody seems to know. "It's unexplainable," said linebacker Greg Collins. "Un­believable." SC coach John McKay offered a little more. "At halftime (behind 24-6) we reminded the team of the 1964 game," McKay said. "It was 17-0 then and 24-6 today ... so there wasn't much difference (the 
Dcmtley's 31 topples Valpo 91-80 
bringing the ball downcourt gave Digger. "We played nine people "The gym was a very small one, 
by Bill Delaney 
the Irish leads of 12 points or during the first half in order to see and all the people shoutinll and 
Digger Phelps and his Irish better throughout the first half. what combinations would work screaming threw us off a little," Basketball team began their Valpo struggled to come back, effectively, and unfortunately, said Crotty. "We reorganized a season on a happy note this and narrowed Notre Dame's Valpo's comeback wasn't little bit later, and stayed com­weekend of harsh luck with a 91-80 lead down to ten, 47-37, at the half. something we expected." fortably ahead." win over Valparaiso· Saturday "We knew we had some Valpo opened the second half on Valpo closed the gap to three night. problems defensively to work on, a hot shooting note, narrowing the with six minutes to play, but two 
The Irish, who led from the and we hoped to work on beginning of the contest, were paced by Adrian Dantley's 37 points and the rebounding strength of co-captain Pete Crotty and Toby Knight, who had 10 and 14 rebounds, respectively. 
"We're a young, inexperienced ballclub, and we have a long way to go," commented Coach Phelps after the game. "Defensively, we still have to improve, and we'll be trying to put it together game by game." _ 
Valparaiso's height and speed showed Notre Dame's need for improvement efensivelu. provement. 
"Valpo played really well, and thought they had the best chance in a number of years to beat us," said Phelps. "We put Crotty up against their big man, and later Knight and Batton did a fine job in the middle." 
Crotty, who scored 10 points and had 12 rebounds, was pleased with the overall performance of the team in their first game. 
"Everyone played well tonight, considering the mistakes we made," said Crotty. "We would always have a comfortable lead, but when we tried to put them 
... away, mental errors would kill us." 
Adrl•n d•ntley's 37 points led the Irish to •n opening g•me win over
The game itself was one where right," confides Digger. "We've
V•lpo.

the steady play of Clay and Martin just got to make things happen." 
Trojans won 20-17 in '64). We needed something to happen and after it did (on Anthony Davis' kickoff return), we thought we could score on them anytime. 
"We needed a catalyst and it came through on the kickoff return. They had kicked to A.D. earlier in the game, and during the halftime we discussed that there was no NCAA rule against blocking on kickoffs." For all his sarcasm, McKays words were true to form. After the 102 yard return by Davis, it was literally over. 
"They didn't even have the momentum going into the second half," whispered Collins. "But after that return everything ex­ploded. They were sky-high." 
Ara Parseghian agreed that the turning point was Davis' return. "Then we had the punt return, then the fumble and then ... " He didn't even have to say it. 
"They got good field position almost all of the second half," said Ara. "And they didn't have to drive very far. We just didn't play football like we are capable of in the second half. We had too many mistakes." 
All season long theJre have been too many mistakes; Ara 's the first to admit that. Only this time the Irish couldn't come close to coming back. 
After Davis' runback and after a Pat Haden to John McKay pass of 31 yards setup A.D.'s third touch­down, mistake number one put Notre Dame behind. The always­reliable Pete Demmerle was sliced in two after catching a Tom Clements aerial and fumbled to SC on the ND 31. Five plays later Davis went in from four yards out and the Trojans never looked back. 
-. 

The Notre Dame offense couldn't do a thing and a 56 yard punt return by SC's Marvin Cobb put the ball at the Irish 19. Haden dropped back to pass, Randy Payne slip­ped, and young McKay caught his first six-pointer of the afternoon. The Irish then put together a promising drive, until mistake number two killed it. Clements' second down pass to tight end Ken 
McAfee was intercepted by roverback Charles Phillips who returned it to midfield. 
The Irish defense, number one in the nation going into the SC game, looked as if it might hold as they forced the Trojans into third and 
15. From there, and perhaps that's what Collins means by un­believable, Haden threw a 44 yard TD pass to McKay. With the extra point by Chris Limahelu, the Trojans had scored 35 points in the Eric Penick contributed with 
mistake number four when he 
fumbled on his own 16. One play, a 
pass from Haden to flanker Shelton 
Diggs, made it 48-24. Clements' 
third interception by Phillips was 
returned 58 yards for the final 
Trojan score, making the total 55­
24. 
"Notre Dame had some bad 
breaks and we had some good 
ones," said the senior McKay. "I 
didn't think that Notre Dame could keep usto only six points. They are a solid team and I know how bad they must feel after starting out so strong." 
Strong was an understatement. 
Notre Dame team "A" which 
played in the first half was un­
beatable. Notre Dame team "B" 
which played in the second half 

could have been beaten by the Fifth 
Street Falcons. 
In the opening thirty minutes, the Trojans were almost as bad. Linebacker Drew Mahalic in­tercepted Haden's first pass of the game on the SC 39 and five plays later Wayne Bullock crashed over from the two. 
SC then failed to convert on a fourth and one from its own 29 and it took Clements one try to find Demmerle in the Trojan end zone. Dave Reeve kicked the extra point giving the Irish a 14-0 lead. Reeve then kicked a 17 yard field goal and 12 minutes later Mark McLane 
scored from nine yards out on a draw play giving the Irish a 24-0 lead. Things looked pretty en­couraging even though the Trojans marched 59 yards in 53 seconds to make the score 24-6 at in­termission. 
But a football game lasts sixty minutes and the Irish didn't. 
Pat Haden had an atypically good passing day hitting on 11 of 17 attempts for 225 yards and four touchdowns. He was six of six in the second half for 189 yards. Davis only had 48 bards in 18 carries, but he did have four touch­downs and the gamebreaking kickoff return. 
From here, the Irish have to pick up the pieces. The Orange Bowl in Miami against undefeated Alabama seems the only feasible opportunity. 
"I will not have a hard time getting this team up for the Orange Bowl," said Ara. "It's still a hell of a challenge for our players to be playing an undefeated team like Alabama." 
Undoubtedly, that game will last sixty minutes too. 
leers lose, tie 
(corttinued from page 7) 
into their zone, but drew a frustrating blank. 
John Peterson swept aside 8 shots in the overtime for a goal total o£.41, while Clark stopped 12 shots in overtime and 59 in the game.
"Len and John gave two very good games in the nets, along with the penalty killing unit," remarked {!oach Smith. "Friday night we had to go with patched up lines because of Alex's one game suspension, but we didn't play the body and didn't react quick enough." 
"Saturday night was definitely very dissappointing because we had the lead and so many scoring opportunities, but still came away with only a tie," commented Smith. "The second game was the best total team ef­fort this season, we went after State the whole game and then in 
This weekend the Irish icers host the Michigan Wolverines for a pair of WCHA contests. Last weekend the Wolverines swept league· leading Colorado College 8-5 and 7-3. 

them gap throughout the third 

quick steals, and Dantley's hot hand quickly erased the Crusaders surge. The game ended with Notre Dame on top, 91-80. 
"This was a good game to win, considering it was on the road and played in a gym typical of the kind we'll be playing in all season," noted Phelps. "Crotty's per­formance (five of six from the field in crucial situations) gives me a lot of pleasure, as does Toby's play. The two of them, and Batton also showed some great . moves out there, and I only hope that they can keep it up." 
Digger and his crew return to the ACC this Wednesday night in their first home game against Nor­thwestern, and then play Prin­ceton, Kansas, and Indiana next week. 
"We've got four great games coming up with nationally ranked teams," noted Digger. "It 
is  paramount  that  we  have  a  
packed house  with  a  total  
student  turnout  for  any  success  

that we may achieve. I do feel that we have a definite chance to win all four games, and it will take the students to help us." 
With four games remaining before Christmas break, the Irish have a seemingly unbearable schedule to undergo. "We'll be all 



