--~-----
Oa The Inside 
Ford tax surcharge ... page 3 
Russian emmigration ... page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX No. 29 by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 

The SLC yesterday asked its Rules Committee for a decision on the human sexuality code. The Rules Committee will meet this week and present its recom­mendations to the SLC next Monday. 
The current University sexuality code prohibits pre-marital sex. It states that the genuine expression of love through sex requires the total committment of two persons in marriage. 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin argued that the current rule simply states Church doctorine on human sexuality and cannot be construed as a rule for behavior. 
"We must decide if it is going to be a rule where students get penalized or a statement of a philosophy where they do not get penalized," McLaughlin said. 
Art Derse, Student District 6 
representative, mentioned that whatever 
new rule is adopted, it must not invade the 
privacy of the students. The Committee 
agreed that the rule must apply to all cases 
and not just a majority of cases. 
"We should educate the students rather 
than punish them," said District 3 
representative Brian Heherty. Hegarty 
pointed out that the sexuality code, passed 
by the SLC last semester and vetoed by Fr. 
Hesburgh over the summer, contained an 
unfair enforcement provision. The 
proposal, which would have kicked student 
violators off campus, gave off campus 
living a stigma, Hegarty said. He argued that the problem demands not punish­ment, but counseling. 

Fr. Terrence Lally, assistant vice­president for student affairs, urged the SLC to take more time in adopting a sexuality code because of the importance of the issue. 
McLaughlin urged the Committee to act quickly because the issue has remained unresolved for too long. 
The sexuality code passed the SLC last year by an eleven to nine vote and was vetoed by Fr. Hesburgh. The SLC is looking for a proposal that can pass the committee unanimously. 
Dean of Students John Macheca proposed a meeting with Fr. Hesburgh to determine his objections to the sexuality code passed last year. 
"A meeting with Fr. Hesburgh would help the Rules Committee because we could take Fr. Hesburgh's feelings on this in our compromises," Macheca said. 
McLaughlin stated the the SLC must 
decide the sexuality code-on its own 
because of the reason the SLC exists. 
"The SLC' was not set up for what Fr. 
Hesburgh has to say, but for what the SLC 
has to say also," McLaughlin said. "If we 
let Fr. Hesburgh have his say all the time, 
there is no need for the SLC." 
In other action, the SLC elected its 
representative to the Judicial Board. The 
decision was made in secret and the name 
of the representative will be announced at 
a later date. 

ND JWlior killed yesterday 
•


lD bicycle-truck collision 
by Jim Donathell A 20-year old Notre Dame student was killed yesterday afternoon when his 
bicycle swerved into a tanker truck at the corner of Michigan St. and North Shore Blvd. 
Robert Rieman of 401 Stanford Hall was pronounced dead on arrival at Memorial Hospital at 4:45 p.m. yesterday. He was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Rieman, 1132 Grover Rd., East Aurora, New York. 
St. Joseph County coroner's report said Rieman died of a severely crushed chest and internal injuries. 
Rieman, a junior government major, was traveling south on Michigan St. enroute to-Nicola's where he worked, when he was struck by the southbound tanker. 

Rieman was active in campus activities serving in the Logan Center and tutorill;g programs his freshman year. He spent h1s sophomore year abroad in ~e Inn~bruck program. Rieman was wo~kmg th1s year with the Ombudsman serviCe. 
Friends are invited to attend a special service tonight at 10:30 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. His funeral will be held Friday morning at the St. Catherine of Siena Parish in West Seneca, New York. 


Tuesday Ocrober 8, 1974 
ND faculty salaries below nat'l average 
by Gregg Bangs Staff Reporter 

Percentage increases for Notre Dame faculty salaries lag behind similar increases at universities across the country, according to a report issued by the American Association of University Professors. The report said the average pay in­crease of current Notre Dame faculty members was in the bottom ten percent of schools reporting increases in faculty salaries. 
The AAUP report was published in a newsletter prepared by Tom Swartz and Ed Trubac, President of the Notre Dame AAUP chapter. Trubac, an associate professor of Finance and Business Economics, said the major reason for printing the report was to "publicize the financial situation of the Notre Dame faculty and staff." 
In their newsletter, Swartz and Trubac stated that its purpose is "to evaluate recent salary increases at the University of Notre Dame by comparing them with the salary gains of 1,244 institutions of higher learning for the academic year 1973-74." The co-authors also felt that "while 1973-74 was a bad year for faculty members generally, it was much worse for faculty members at the University of Notre Dame." 
The major part of the newsletter was a chart comparing the percentage increase in salary for varying academic ranks of the University with similar ranks of other institutions. 
The institutions that took part in this survey were broken into two categories. The first category encompassed all the in­stitutions that reported data for continuing staff members. 
The second category consisted of private independant colleges and Universities in Category I "which offer the doctorate degree and which conferred in the most recent three years an annual average of fifteen or more earned doctorates covering a minimum of three non-related disciplines. Notre Dame is in­cluded in this category." the newsletter related. 
The chart shows Notre Dame salary gains are far smaller than the increases in both categories. An example of this lag is seen in the "all ranks" category, which is an average of the percentage increases in the ranks of professor ,associate professor, assistant professor and instructor. 
The average percentage increase for schools reporting in­creases at the all ranks level was 5.9 per cent. The increase in Category I was 6.0 per cent, while the Notre Dame percentage increase was 3.8per cent. 
Trubac stressed that this year's results were not a new development. "Three years ago, in a similar study, the average pay increases in the all reporting institutions category was 5.5 per cent, while Notre Dame's increase was only 3.2 per cent. Obviously, we have been behind on the pay increase scale for at least the last three years," he pointed out. 
Additional information pertaining to the 1973-74 academic year showed 90 per cent of all reporting institutions had salary percentage increases of over 4 per cent. This puts the 3.8 per cent salary increase at Notre Dame in the bottom 10 per cent of salary increases. 
The newsletter also stated that 45 per cent of all reporting institutions made pay increases of at least 6 per cent. Similar data for private, independent schoolsin Category I were not different. 
Only 8 per cent of the schools in Category I "granted salary raises to continuing faculty members that were less than 4 per cent, while 40 per cent (of the schools) gave increases that were at least 6 per cent. In this category as well, Notre Dame ranks near the bottom." the newsletter emphasized. 
Trubac and Swartz explained this newsletter followed "a number of AAUP and Faculty Senate reports commenting on the economic status of the faculty at the University of Notre Dame." One of the reports, written by Tom Swartz, noted that if an inflationary rate of only 8 per cent prevailed during this current academic year, a 17-18 percent pay hike would be required to equal the purchasing power the faculty had three years ago. 
The AAUP is an organization that is trying to further the in­terests of faculty members. The local chapter at Notre Dame is engaged in a membership drive, hoping to add to its current membership of 275 local faculty members. 

·-····..·················································--····-····-·-·------­
Percentage Increases in Salary for Faculty on Staff For Both 1972-73 and 1973-74, by Academic Rank, for the University of Notre Dame and for all Reporting and for Comparable Institutions 

All Reporting Private Rank Institutions Colleges Notre Dame 
Professor 5.4 per cent 5.2 per cent 3.3 per cent Associate 6.7 per cent 6.3 per cent 3.9 per cent Assistant 6.7 per cent 6.4 per cent 4.1 per cent 
Instructor 7.5 per cent 7.2 per cent 5.5 per cent All Ranks 6.0 per cent 5.9 per cent 3.8 per cent 
··-·--·..···-··-·--.....·-···--··---····................_......._ 
the observer Tuesday October 8, 1974 

warld briefs 

Rielfeld-Joellenbe-CK, Germany UPI -A U.S. Air Force F4 Phantom jet fighter exploded in midair and crashed Monday, killin g the two American crewmen and a mother and her 18 month old daughter, police said. 
Destrahan, La. UPI -A 14 year old white youth died Monday after being shot through the neck from a bus filled with black students that was being stoned by whites. Four other students, also white, were injured. 
New York UPI-Three prestigious Fifth Avenue clothing stores, Saks & Co., Bergdorf Goodman and Genesco Inc. (owner of Bonwit Teller shops), were indicted Monday on charges of con­spiracy to fix prices and undermine competition in the sale of dresses, suits and coats for the past five years. 
Copenhagen UPI -An emergency oil-sharing standby plan between the United States and 11 other industrial nations will go into effect in November, A Danish official said Monday. 

. nation 

news was discussed and the Issues director of the FBI to one 10 year term. 
Washington UPI-The Senate voted 70 to 0 Monday to limit the 

Conference in the Libra.ry Lounge. Tours of the campus v ere givenBerlin UPI -East German troops paraded in front of Soviet 
at the close of the conference on
and East German leaders in East Berlin Monday to mark a 
RESERVATIONS
Sunday.

quarter-century of statehood. But Western diplomats snubbed the 284-4176
Highlighting the Issues Con­
celebrations charging it violated the divided city's demilitarized 
ference were presentations on
status. 
urban and housing development by 
Santo Domingo UPI -President Joaquin Balaguer said Monday 

Student -Faculty
Kent Wilcox of South Bend;
night the Dominican government would give the guerrillas who 

muscular dystrophy by Gene 
ND"'SMC Staff
SMC
seized the Venezuelan consulate more than a week ago freedom to 

Chisolm prison concerns by Larry 
$1.50
leave the country if they would release unharmed their seven 

Bardmeuller, president of the 
hostages, including an American woman diplomat. 



THEATRE

Indiana-Purdue Circle K at Fort Wayne; and a general address by 
1974-75 

Richard Lindsay, Iniana State
an campus taday 

Our Ninth Season Representative. 
4pm --lecture, "theoretical studies In photoelectron spectroscopy: 

Seven area colleges besides 
LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGEL
use of angular distribution data to deduce molecular orbital 

Notre Dame were represented at 
Ketti Frlngs' Pulitzer Prize play based on the novel byThomas Wolfe.parameters,, by prof. burke ritchie, u. of alabamba, sponsored 
the conference which was chaired 
by chem dept., 123 nieuwland. 

by District Govrnor Dave Landon 
4:30 pm .. seminar, "the yellow-fever mosquito makes a 

of Manchester College, North 
Oct. 4, 5, 10, 11,12 at 8:00P.M. comeback," by dr. a. w. a. brown, mlch. st. u., sponsored by bio. 
Manchester, Indiana. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) ., pm -· slide lecture, "south africa: georaphlc beauty and human dept., galvin life aud . 
The international vice president 
of the organization, Judy O'Mary 
anguish," narrated by dr. peter walshe, spon. by african 

of Samford College, Birmingham, 
IN CONCERT

Alabama, also attended the con­
studies, lib. lounge 
7:30 pm .. business lecture, "toward the development of assertive 
ference. 
women," by dr. suzanne areson, carroll hall 

The next Indiana District Issues Conference will be held in March 




MAC DAVIS 
at Indianapolis. The Notre Dame 
chapter of the Circle K will be 
Also Appearing: Nary Travers 
represented there, as well as at the 
International Convention to be held 
Airport receives aid 
SAT. OCT. 19th 8:30 P.M.
at Toronto this spring. In the near future the Notre 
NOTRE DAME


for run-way changes 
Dame Circle K will visit the 
Family and Children's Home in 
ATHLETIC AND
John Brademas, Third District ·Brademas explamed. 
Ticket Prices CONVOCATION CENTER
Michigan, sponsor a paper
Congressman from Indiana, an-None of the funds will be used for 
Bleachers . __ •__ • $4.00
recycling drive and work with
nounced last Thursday that the improvement of terminal 
local prison officials to help area 
Lower Arena . • • . • $5.50 will provide a $919,000 grat to this," airport authorities 
Federal Aviation Administration facilities. "Two things enter into 
probation officers. improve a runway and flight remarked. "First we are under an Anyone interested in joining the facilities at the Michiana Regional $80,000 contract with engineers to Notre Dame Circle K should call Airport. determine the need for remodeled Tom Schnellenberger at 1841. 
Tickets on sale:
According to airport authorities, or new terminal facilities. This the grant will be used for an 1100 should be complete in Deecember 
NOTRE DAME, A.C.C foot extension for runway 921 <the or January. 
The Observer is published dally 
Mon.· Sot. 9 to 5 main runway of the the airport), "Secondly, federal aid is not 
during lhe college semester except 
vacations by the students of the 
Robertson's 
University of Notre Dame .nd St. 
South Bend & Concord Moll
an adjoining taxiway, new high-presently available for terminal 
Mary's College. Subscriptions
intensity runway lights and a building improvements.' _ 
St. Joseph Bank
may be purchased for S9 per 
semester ($16 per year) from The
relocation of the instrument Ian-Brademas is working with the St. 
and branches Observer Box Q, Notre Dame,
ding system. Joseph County Airport Authority 
First Bank
Indiana 46556. Second class
"These improvements will and Sen. Vance Hartke, along 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
translate into improved service with airport president John Frick, 
46556. 
such as direct flights to Denver, to obtain the grant. Frick said he larger loads for incoming and expects the work to begin "as soon outgoing planes and a general as the ink dries on the final papers improvement of safety," this week." 
-r----------------­

Forpeoplewho 
11 

tab roci music seriously. 
Blectrostatlc hi&hs combined with dynamic lows.


STANFORD 
Until now, you had to choose between the clear, smooth highs of our elec­
trostatic phone, and the heavy bass of our dynamic phone. We combined both in the new Electro-Pro. So you can enjoy the highest notes on the moog, mellotron, or electric fiddle, without missing the driving beat of the
ISthe professional art of applying science 

ENGINEERING 

bass guitar and drums. Turn up the volume, no distortion. The Electro-Pro 
to the optimum conversion of natural resources 

comes in black, with Chroma trim, and a 15 foot coil cord. Its comfort lies 
to the benefit of man." 

in its lightness, its fully adjustable headband, and soft ear 
cushions. The electrostatic element and mylar woofer
Stanford School of Engineering's wide-ranging graduate programs 
offer qualified men and women exciting avenues to rewarding, 

are inside the phones, while the crossover and power
satisfying, professional careers. 

components are housed in a self protecting energizer. 
The Stanford School of Engineering is searching for graduate students from among qualified majors in engineering, mathematics, 

Overall response is 10-24,000 Hz. I year guarantee. 
and the sciences. 

For rock music, the way it was 
A representative from the school will be on campus to discuss 

recorded. we give you the 
Stanford's ten engineering departments and interdisciplinary 

Superex Electro-Pro. Just 
programs, research opportunities, the financial assistance available, 
and other aspects of engineering at Stanford. 

what you always wanted. 
• Wednesday, October 9 
Electro-Pro Sugg. retail price $80.00 

Superex Stereophones.
Make arrangements to meet him through 

Feel what you hear.
• Placement Bureau 

For free literaturewnte: Superex Electronics Corp .. Dept. 33,151 Ludlow Strel!t.Yonkers, N.Y. 10705 In Canada, Paco Electronics Ltd .. Quebec. 
Or write to 
• Stanford School of Engineering, Stanford, California 94305 


Circle K club conference heldat ND 
by Fred Herbst 
Staff Reporter 

The Circle K Di!?trict Fall Issues Conference was held at Notre Dame this past weekend. 
The conference opened Friday evening with representatives of various Circle K Clubs visiting the Family and Chilren's Home in Michigan. 
Saturday's activities consisted of a board meeting at which district 
N.D. SKIClUB 

ASPEN TRIP 
JANUARY4 11 
MEETING TONIGHT 7 P.M. 
1-C LaFortune 


RESERVATION & DEPOSIT nnesota resents 

CARNAL KNOWLEDGE 
starring Ann-Margret Candice Bergen Jack Nicholson Art Garfunkel 
Wednesday, Cktober 9th at 7, 9, and 1 1 p.m.

Engineering ditorium 
1 

-~ ~-----~~---~-~-. 
~ ~---~ ~----­
Tuesday October 8, 1974 the observer 
3 

Ford is considering tax surcharge 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -With economic package he will $7,500. President Ford reported ready present to Congress and the Nessen sidestepped other to propose a 5 per cent nation Tuesday. specific questions about what surcharge on income taxes in Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Ford will call for in his the higher brackets, Senate Mass., demurred, calling the 5 nationally. broadcast address to Democratic Leader Mike Mans­per cent levy "an unfortunate a joint session of Congress field said he favored the idea if suggestion." starting at 4 p.m. EDT it is limited to those making At the White House, Press Tuesday. But he did say it will $20,000 or more a year. Secretary Ron Nessen refused deal with food, energy, housing, 
Mansfield's Republican coun­to confirm or deny the reports interest rates and other prob­terpart, Sen. Hugh Scott of that Ford will suggest a 5 per lem areas of the economy. Pennsylvania, gave his uncondi­cent surcharge on the income He reiterated that the speech tional support to the surtax taxes of couples earning more will call for "restraint, self­should Ford include it -as has than $15,000 and single persons discipline and sacrifice" on the been widely reported -in the with incomes in excess of part of consumers, business 




Two injured in Boston 
Busing sparks violence 
BOSTON <UPI) -Police least 10 arrests. Two persons fired at least two warning shots Monday battled some 600 were hospitalized, including a to help disperse the crowd, whites who formed a human 31-year-old black man hit by a estimated at 600 by Police chain across a South Boston thrown bottle and a 17-year-old Capt. Arthur Cadigan. 
road to block busloads of black white youth. Several police children on their way home apparently suffered minor in­The whites began gathering 
at 2 p.m., just as school wasfrom school. At least two juries. 
being let out. They stood enwarning shots were fired in the 
Altogether, 28 persons were 
masse across the street fromworst outbreak of violence to 
arrested in the Boston area 
the Old Colony housing projectdate connected with court­
Monday in connection with the 
to block busloads of blackordered school busing here. 
plan to integrate city schools. 
children being returned home. 
Police said about 300 police Police Commissioner Robert But the buses took alternateofficers -some on horses or 
motorcycles -were cailed to diGrazia ordered all bars and routes, skirting the crowds. put down the disturbance. clubs in South Boston closed for 
At the same time, a black 
0fficials said there were at the night. Officials said police man, en route to a South 
Boston school to pick up his 
daughter, was stopped by the 
whites, some of whom shouted, 
"There's a nigger!" He got out 
of his car and fled, with some 
whites in pursuit. 
0-C residence robbed, 

450 dollars in goods lost 
They cornered him on a flightleads.
by Bill Sohn of stairs and continued to beat Staff Reporter him. When police went to his
McNellis said that he was told by 
aid, they turned on the officers.
the detective who investigated the 
Two more off-campus Notre 
burglary that the South Bend
Dame students had their home Police charged into the crowd
police have been getting from one
burglarized last Friday. Two of whites, and chased some of
to two calls per day about
stereos and a calculator worth them into the courtyards and
burglaries from Notre Dame
approximately $450 were stole buildings of the housing project.
students in that area.

from the house of Dennis McNellis and Bob Tracey located on Cedar Street. 
The burglars entered the locked house between 10:30 a.m. and 2:30 
p.m. by breaking through a basement window, according to McNellis. As far as McNellis and Tracey were able to ascP.rtain no neighbors witnessed the burglary. 
McNellis gave the serial number from his stereo to the detective. The police said that such in­formation is important in following 
TICKETING 

GRUENINGER TRAVEL 291-4810 Mon-Frl 10 • 9 Sat. 10·6 Sun. 12 · 5:30 
and government, and that the privy to the details of Ford's 
President's proposals should be economic package. 
adopted in their entirety if a Kennedy's comment: "An 
bridle is to be put on inflation. . income tax surcharge is no 
"It is not a shopping list for more satisfactory than an 
Congress and the American I increase in the gasoline tax as 
people to pick and choose what . a way of raising new federal 
is most convenient to carry ,revenues, and the surcharge
out," Nessen said. ought to be relegated to the 
Mansfield, asked if he would 1discard heap with the same 
support a surtax proposal, said: haste that the President has 
"It depends on what goes with rejected a gasoline tax in­
it. If it's $20,000 and above, I crease." 
would look on it with favor." · Mansfield, in a floor speech
Scott said he believed Ford later, also rejected the idea of 
"would ask the nation to make a gasoline tax, suggesting
sacrifices" and that he would instead that the government 
support him in that effort, "inaugurate gas rationing im­
including a surtax. mediately." He also urged the 
Both leaders emphasized they President to consider "manda­
were commenting on the tory wage, price, rent and 
published reports, and were not profit controls." 
Butz urges grain exporters to use voluntary controls 
By l:HERYL ARVIDSON 
companies postponed under
WASHINGTON (UPI) 
White House pressure the sale
Agriculture Secretary Earl 
of 3.4 million tons of corn and
Butz announced a new system 
wheat to the Soviet Union -will
Monday requiring prior govern­
make the imposition of across­
ment approval for major sales 
the-board export controls un­
of U.S. grain to foreign 
necessary.
countries and 'hinted that export 
He also said he hoped the
controls might be imposed if 
new reporting system would
the voluntary system failed to 
guarantee exports of as much
work. 
grain as the previous system,
The voluntary reporting sys­
which forced companies to
tem -designed to make sure 
report export sales of much
the domestic grain supply is not 
larger volumns of grain to the
depleted by any unexpected 
department after the sales were 
surge of sales abroad -was 
made.
detailed during a meeting 
·~~~~---~~~ 
between Agriculture Depart­
ment officials, major grain I ROCCO'S t 
exporters and other govern­
ment agencies. f 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. I Grains covered initially under t the finest in a the new requirements included 
t * PIZZA 't
wheat, corn, sorghum, soy 
ITALIAN FOOD 
beans and soy bean meal. But 
t*officals hinted the program YOUR FAVORITE ' 
t BEVERAGES
might be expanded later to barley, oats and soy bean oil. FRIENDLY ATMOSPHERE ' Butz said he hoped the new toPEN TUESDAY-SATURDAY' reporting system -formulated 
AT 5:00 DAILY 
in haste after two major grain L
a~~~~~~~ 
fii/JA, OCTOBER II S-111"1 SI#IIJID~Y UCrlllliZ llltlf-mitllllfAt 
POLittt ::.-vs.o.ce IRiSH FOLIC DAMCii!IO DULY DA~ClNG llLACK A"TS D:SPLA\' 
GREEK, UICRAHI-If Fe'-" WINC*IG 
I<ARA'JI: ll[hiloii&TI!ATiC>M CER~AH Uefl GARIIEM$ !"()LISt!, HVNCARii\.N Fot.J( DA~leift<: OAIICiNC IJNDE:R TK£ STAR$ HICHTLV 'ROI't 1•\1 P"' 
THE CIVIC MINDED SHOPPING CENTER 





THE OBSERVER 
Al\1 INDEPENDENT STUDFNT NEWSPAPER  
EDITORIALS: 283-11661 Fred Graver Editorial Editor  NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief  Marlene Zlou Ma1111ging Editor  
Bob Zogas Business Man.:ger  Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob McManus Adver1ising Ma1111pr  

October 7, 1974 -------------­
Off-Campus: Time for a Change 
In a period of three years, the number 
of off-campus students has increased 
steadily. As such, their needs have also 
increased. 
The University must begin to shoulder 
some responsibility for its off-campus 
students. Their attitude now is, at best, 
vague. At worst, it seems that they don't 
care at all. 
Over those years, the off-campus 
students has acquireda very demeaning 
status in comparison with his on­
campus counterpart. Though off-campus 
students attend the same classes, suffer 
the same frustrations (and then some), 
and receive the same diploma, no 
compensation is made for the additional 
discomforts and inconveniences of off­
camus life. 
Now, for the first time in its history·, 
Notre Dame has a solid percentage of 
students living off-campus. Recognition 
of this fact must be forthcoming from the 
University. They must begin to put some 
strong support behind these students. 
The first step is expansion of the 
present off-campus office. Presently, Fr. 
Thomas Tallarida and his student 
assistant are doing the best possible job, 
considering the conditions they work 
under. But the office is understaffed, and 
an expansion of facilities is sadly needed. 
Unless this is done, the leverage that is 
needed to work effectively in other areas 
will be missing. 
One of the primary areas to be in­
vestigated is off-campus housing. As it is 
now, the housing is, for the most part, 
sub-standard. Many homes are left 
unrepaired because the landlord knows 
he can get away with it when renting to 
students. It is a situation of classic ex­
ploitation, and the University needs to do 
something about it. 
Through an expanded off-campus of­
fice, these landlords could be confronted, 
and given a choice between either im­
proving the quality of their property or 
losing student tenants. 
As an option to the landlord, a low in­
terest loan program could be offered by 
the University, for improvements on the 
houses. Through this program, students 
in the market for housing would have an 
opportunity to know which landlords are 
interested in keeping up the quality of 
their property and which are not. 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
An expanded off-campus office would aid tremendously in the establishment of the proposed food co-ou as well. Unless the University begins l take an interest in, and throw support ehind, the co-op, its chances for surviv. are minimal. 
Another area which needs investigation is the high crime rate in South Bend. This situation is ~ ccompound of all the problems plauging off-campus students. Since they are in low-rent neighborhoods, the students are sitting ducks for rob­beries, vandalism, and other crimes, which are common to the area. Their high-priced possessions, such as TV's and stereos, are prime targets for easy thievery. 
The South Bend police claim that they are doing everything possible in this area. The responsibility for action once again shifts back to the hands of the University. 
One proposal that could be worked on is the development of an insurance plan, sponsored by the University in con­junction with an insurance company which would be designed tohandlethe type of problems which are common to the off­campus student. 
Another proposal to be pursued is the establishment of a program such as the Hall-marc project which was instituted in many halls last year. 
In addition to immediate projects, it is time for the University to begin developing long-range plans for off­campus life. It is time to begin con­sidering the prospect of the University acting as landlord. The large amount of land surrounding the University may provide an exceptional area for off­campus development. 
The main problem with the University acting as a landlord is that of pricing. As withtheplans for property improvement, co-operation between the University and the landlords must be stressed. 
These ideas are meant only to em­phasize a fact: the time has come for the University. to consider fully the off­campus situation and begin to take strong, positive action towards showing support for its off-campus students. 
Fred Graver 

Fruitless Venture 
The Academic Council proposal for a mandatory values seminar for seniors opposes the idea that a student, dring their years in college, learns the values they will need to cope with their decisions after graduation. A college education should instill the values and morals necessary to answer questions concerning everyday problems. 
The proposed seminar is a repetition of other courses. The themes that will be discussed in the senior seminar have already been highlighted in such programs as Freshman Colloquium, Collegiate Seminar, and in Theology and Philosophy electives. 
The aim of the seminar, according to the report by 

The Committee on the Course of Study, will be to 
"reflect on the values which motivate us and subject 
them to discursive examination." 
As defined, the course objective is idealistic and 

general, encompassing a wide range of values that 
can only be subject to real-life experience, not 
discussed in the classroom situation. 
How to cope with decisions comes from within wben one is faced with concrete problems, and not hypothetical situations as the seniors would present. 
If the student has not acquired a sense of values within the time he begins and finishes school, a one credit seminar cannot possibly instill in him moral standards which should be a life-long learning ex­perience. 
The proposed seminar would be graded on a satisfactory-unsatisfactory basis, but this does not compensate for the fact that it will be a mandatory course for all seniors. 
Another required seminar on values would be a waste of time; time which many seniors deem valuable in their last year; time to get away from theoretics and to pursue fields of interests not in their major. 
Another mandatory course will breed apathy towards the topic of values. A forced subject lacks personal interest and initiative and blurs the focus of the topic. 
Thus, if student disiniterest in and opposition to the senior seminar is not considered by the Academic Council, the goals of the seminar will not be reached nor will its purposes be achieved. The seminar will prove a fruitless venture. 
Jeanne Murphy 


'JERRY, ABOUT YOUR PROPOSED UPPER-INCOME SURTAX ... WILL THAT APPLY TO MY $5S,DOO PENSION, OR MY $200,000 TRANSITION ALLOWANCE?' 
the observer


Night Editor: Thomas O'Neil 
Ass't Night Editor: Dan Sanchez 
Layout: Bob Varettonl, Mary Janca 
Copy Reader: Jim Eder and Jim Dona then Day Editor: Tom Russo Editorials: Ken Girouard Sports: Bill Delaney, Bill Brink, Greg 
Corgan 
Typists: Barb Haug, Barb Norcross, Tom 
Modglin, Jim Landis Rick Huber, Compugraphic Operator: Phil Orscheln Picture Screener: Albert D'Antonio Night Controller: Howard Haile Ad Layout: Tom Whelan & Haile 


·-------------------~---------"] 
Tuesday October 8, 1974 the observer 
5 

Hinderance to Russian trade status 
•

Breakdown seen !n emigration compromise 
The complex compromise had all sides. But, they said,
WASHINGTON <UPI) letters, in which Kissinger would heart by administration officials or 
been worked out between Soviet Kissinger's office telephoned
Congressional sources said Sunday certify the Russians had agreed to because the Russians had changed 
officials, Secretary of State Henry Jackson unexpectedly Tuesday
they are mystified why the ad­such specifics as allowing 60,000 their terms.
A. Kissinger and three senators night to say Kissinger would not
ministration apparently changed Jews to emigrate in the first year, But one source said it did not 
its mind last week and rejected a who were determined not to give send the senator one of three let­
which the Secretary of State "out appear the Russians were to blame 
key part of compromise designed normal tariff concessions and low-· ters that formed the heart of the. of the blue" refused to write, 
because a high-IeveiSoviet official 

to ease emigration of Soviet Jews interest Export-Import Bank loans agreement. sources said. 
had complained at the White House

to communist nations with "The three letters were a
in return for better U.S.-Russian Sources said Kissinger had not that ''we've made our concessions; 
restrictive emigration policies. package, inseparable from one
trade terrris. explained whether the breakdown now where are our improved trade 
Sources said the breakdown in The specific goal oi the three another," one source said. "Now, occurred because of a change of terms." the compromise, if unresolved, senators--Henry Jackson, D-obviously there's no deal. 
~~~~~~~~~·~.,._.~~~~~~,
would almost certainly block "At this moment the respon­' THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE
Wash.; Abrfaham A. Ribicoff, D-sibility for this breakdown lies with 
administration hopes of getting 
Conn.; and Jacob J. Javits, R-the administration." 
t tbetter trade status . for the Soviet 
N.Y.--was to obtain freer The three-letter deal was worked
Union included in a trade reform 
emigration for Soviet Jews. I out, sources said, to get around
bill the Senate is .expected to pass t CLOWNS t 
after the congresssional election Sources said details of the Soviet objections to being too 
t t 
recess. 'compromise had been agreed to by specific in a fomal agreement. 
t for PROJECT HEAD START Clown Program t
The first letter would have been from Kissinger to Jackson, f Volunteer an·hour or two to make a fFran De Marco continues spelling out ~viet concessions in youngster's first days in school a f
general terms. Then, sources 

said, Jackson was to write back to t memorable experience.popular dancing program Kissinger giving his "in­t ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING: 6 P.M. Tues. Oct. 8 t by Tom Brennan terpretation" of those terms. Room 228. Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's.
to Fran, that's the way it was
Staff Reporter Finally, they said, Kissinger was t Or call 284-4141 for information. f
meant to be. to answer Jackson saying his in­....._..~~~~~~ ~~­
Ballroom or touch dancing has Judging from the response at terpretations were correct.
gained a strong foothold at Notre Monday's sesession everyone All three letters were to beDame if the enthusiasm of Monday involved seemed to agree. The carefully worked out before anynight's crowd is an accurate in­atmosphere is relaxed and every were sent. It was the third of thosedication. The LaFortune Student week a new dance step is taught.
Center was the place to be as over Fran hopes to have television eighty students learned the fun­coverage in the near future, eying damentals of dancing in a festive a half hour television show. Since Blood drive atmosphere. other universities have taken up
Dance instructor Fran DeMarco ballroom dancing, the possibility to continue
is pleased with the great response of intercollegiate dance com­her dancing lessons have gotten, petition may become a reality. 
by Mauri Millerbecause they fill, as she sees it, the So whether you want to become Staff Reportercultural and social needs of the the scourge of Kubiak's or enjoy a Results of the newly -organized Notre Dame community. Touch relaxing evening, the LaFortune ND-SMC blood drive weredancing brings male and female ballroom is the place to be on described as "very good" afterstudents together, and according Monday night. 

its first week. Volunteers from Stanford and Grace Halls donated blood at the


Madison smayor Soglin 
Central Blood Bank last Tuesday and Thursday. 
Members of Fisher Hall will donate blood today. Cars will leave from the main circle for ths bank at 9 a.m., 10:30, noon, 1:30 
p.m. and 3 o'clock. 
Those giving blood from Morrissey Hall will volunteer their time Thursday. Under the new system each hall is assigned a Tuesday or Thursday as their day to give blood. 
All off-campus students can give blood anytime, as no special days have been designated for them. 

WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends 
Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. 
Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL C. (219 636-7189 
439 So. Michigan -So. Bend 121 So. Main -Mishawaka 220 W. Marion -Elkhart 

Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years 

Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 
~-­


~----~------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
6 

the observer Tuesday October a, 1974 
Set free by judge 




Beef chairman convicted 
NEW YORK<UPI) The chairman of the nation's largest beef com­pany was found guilty of bribery conspiracy Monday but was set free without a fine or penalty by a judge who said he realized that to do business in New York, the company had to join "the corrupt system." 
Currier J. Holman, co-founder 
and co-cahairman of Iowa Beef 
Processors Inc., was given an 
unconditional discharge by 
Manhattan Supreme Court Justice. 
Burton B. Roberts. 
"I like you," Roberts told the 62­
year-old defendant. "I like you as 
a man. You have been a victim of 
circumstances.'' 
Holman's company was fined 
$7,000 on the charges of conspiring 
to bribe labor leaders and 
supermarket officials in order to 
introduce Iowa Beef's boxed-beef 
products into the lucrative New 
York market. 
However, Roberts said, Holman 
and supermarket labor relations 
executive Moe Steinman had in­
deed formulated "a plan to bribe 
labor leaders and supermarket 
officials." 
Prior t:-Robert's sentencing, Holman, in a quiet statement said "Judge, if I'm guilty -and you seem to think I am -I should pay whatever price guilt should carry." 
He added, "I disagree that I'm 
guilty I disagree with your 
assessment of the facts, but 
whatever price I have to pay for 
what I've done I'll be glad to do it." 
The judge depicted Holman as 
an honest businessman whose zeal 
for introducing a revolutionary 
packaging concept which would 
save consumers 9 cents a pound on 
beef products iru him to believe 
that dealing with extortionists and 

over 

BURLINGTON, Vt. <UPI) ­President Ford encountered hundreds of jeering student demonstrators protesting his pardon of Richard Nixon Monday night when he flew to Vermont to launch a personal campaign blitz on behalf of Republican candidates in next month's elections. 
The demonstrators were massed outside the University of Vermont in Burlington when Ford arrived. They shouted and waved signs as he entered the university gymnasium to speak at a $5o-a-plate dinner. 
The President did not appear to react to the protestors, and once inside the gymnasium, the mood changed dramatically. Ford received a two-minute standing ovation from the estimated 2,000 Republican faithful. 
Ford joined the 
Marge's Beauty Salon 1822 N.Johnson 
Phone 233-1 035 
..Tomorrow's Hairstyles Today" 





HOMECOMING 
PLENTY OF FOOTBALL & HOMECOMING PACKAGES AVAILABLE AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
FRIDAY 
SATURDAY 
PEP RALLY 7:00 N.D. vs. RICE 1:30
I 

GORDON LIGHTFOOT 8:30 

ICKETS AVAILABLE AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE & A.C.C. 



CABARET PARTY ST. JOE, MICHIGA 
BUSES LEAVE CIRCLE BEGINNING AT 7:30 $6.00/COUPLE MUSIC BY WIND 
CASUAL DRESS CONlE AS YOU ARE 
Tuesday October 8, 1974 the observer 
7 


Unbeatens lead interhall 
(continued from page 8) 
the Cavanaugh effort and the othe for 25 after Grace drove 70 yards iJ 3 minutes, the big play, of course, 1 30 yard pass to Pereira on thirt and ten. Grace held Cavanaugh 11 negative. yardage behind th1 stalwart play of Tom Wilhelmy, but pre-season favorite Keenan's powerful offense spent most of the day in Grace territory only to be denied the end zone, and sur­prisingly is now 0-2. 
The only other action in the North Quad saw Zahm rebound after losing its first two games to defeat Cavanaugh 14-6. Missing nine starters, either to injury or the away game at Micigan State, Zah­m took the early lead on a Paul Holm keeper set up by a 95-yard run from scrimmage by Dave Mayer. Zahm got the ball right back, but fumbled to return the favor and Cavanaugh tied it up at 6-6 on a ten-yard run. After the half, Holm scored from the five on the tail-end of a 65-yard drive and Casey Nolan added the two-point conversion. Jim Hora, Mike Mountford and company held 
B-ball, lDckey tix 
(continued from page§) 
Students in Ninth Semester or Higher 
Married Students Thursday, Nov. 7--Sophomores Friday, Nov. 8-Freshmen 
Issuing hours will be between 9 and 4, and the office will accept a maximum of four I.D. cards and payments from one student. Married students who desire purchasing adjacent tickets for their spouse must waive their class priorities and apply for their tickets on Wednesday, November 
6. Tickets for the married studnt will be $21.00 (bleacher seats only>, plus $24.50 for his spouse's ticket. 
There is a total of 278 tickets alloted for St. Mary's students. Their allocation will be determined by a lottery to be announced. 
The ticket distribution for 
student hockey tickets was also 
announced yesterday by Bouffard. 
A total of 1218 seats are available 
for students. The tickets cover 16 
games, including Bowling Green, 
Denver, Michigan State, Michigan, 
Michigan Tech, and Wisconsin. 
The tickets will go on sale on a first-eome, first-served basis at the ticket windows of the second floor of the ACC on Tuesday and Wed­nesday, October 15 and 16, between 9 a.m. and 4 a.m. for Notre Dame students, and on Thursday, Oc­tober 17, again between 9 and 4 for St. Mary's students. The price for the tickets for both Notre Dame and St. Mary's students is $16.00. The price for married students, is $16.00 for the student and $24.00 for his spouse. Each student must present his own I.D. for his pur­chase, and students desiring ad­jacent seats must purchase their own at the same time. 
HARQ.DMEDOVV 
USED CARS AND TRUCKS 
~ 

LaFayette at LaSalle Phone 233-2139 
Cavanaugh to minus yardage The Current Standings: while the Zahm offense accounted 
South North

for 250 yards rushing and 60 yards in the air. Dillon 2-o Holy Cross 3-Q
Wednesday night at Cartier, the Morrissey 2-o Grace 2-0 South Quad teams will be in action. Sorin 1-o Stanford 2-o The schedule: St. Joe vs. Dillon at Howard 1-1 Zahm 1-1 7 p.m., Alumni-Howard at 8 and a Alumni 0-1 Keenan 0-2 key matchup of unbeatens at 9, Pangborn 0-2 Flanner 0-2 Sorin vs. Morrissey. St. Joe 0-2 Cavanaugh 0-3 
St.Mary's tennis temn downs ND YIOrnen 9-0 
by Kathi Paterno 

It was cloudy, it was windy and it was a shutout. The St. Mary's tennis team posted a 9-Q victory against the Notre Dame women Sunday afternoon, taking all six singles matches as well as the three doubles events. 
One of the most closely contested games was the number one singles which pitted St. Mary's Barbara Timm against Notre Dame's Betsy Fallon. Timm took the first set with an easy 6-1, dropped the second set 4-6, and pulled out the third 7-5. Next in line was Louise Purcell, who defeated her op­ponent 6-3, 6-2. She was followed by number three Sue Starck 6-1, 6­1; Lynn Griffin, also 6-1, 6-1; co-captain ~heilia Finneran 6-4, 6-1; and Momca Cordes 6-1, 6-3. 
Victories in· the doubles events went to the SMC teams of Ann Houser and Marybeth Vieha 6-3, 6­3; Pat Dunn and Karen Sheedy 7-6, 6-1; and Elly Heil and Sally Obringer 6-2, 6-1. 
St. Mary's came onto the courts fresh from winning Saturday's three team invitational at Hanover College. They easily defeated both the host college and Anderson College, racking up a score of 6-0 in each instance. 
Hoping to extend their winning streak, the SMC squad will travel to Ball State next weekend to participate in the Indiana State Women's Invitational. 

Kagel'sFlowers &Gifts 602 N. Michigan St. 
• Phone 233-2232 
., _ -~ F. T. D. 
AI Razzano Dennis Chiddister Agent Agent 

'learafter vear~ semesrerI after semester, tt-;~ CollegeMaster·lrom Fidditv Union Life has been the most acceptl~ most popular plan on campuses all over Amern~a. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union Collegel\tlaster Field Associate
. 

m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle· 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
Phil Teah Agent 



Dave Witt Agent 







CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR RENT 

Modern executive 2-bedroom cottage located on 30 wooded acres of St. Joseph River frontage and Orchard Hills Golf Course. Win­terized cottage also features large fireplace~ .wall-to-wall carpeting, fully equ1pped kitchen, and riding 
horses. Perfect for out-of-towners on Notre Dame football weekends with only a 20-minute drive to the stadium. $150 per week. Call 616­695-6043. 
Garage for rent. Near N.D. $8 monthly. Call 272-6174. 
Rooms for rent-1 or 2 singles o.c. 1021 DeMaude. Convenient location, good neighborhood. $55 mo. -incl. utilities. Call 232-2773. 
1 single $55 mo. Includes rent, utilities. 1 block from grocery, laundry, bakery. Call 232-2773. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: Whittenauer gold ladies' wristwatch. Lost between Morris Inn & Dillon. Call 7181: 
Lost: gold ring. Initials J.M.A. Call 3336. Big reward. 
Lost: white ski sweater, red and gold, black trim. Reward. Call 8674 or 8672. 
Found: car keys at O'Shag Tues. afternoon. Call 6917. 
Found: one male dashchund Thurs. nite. Owner please claim. Call Observer, 8661 or Mary, 4167. 
WANTED 

Need ride·to N.J. for Oct. break­badly. Will share expenses. Call Kit, 6972. 
House parents wanted. Full time live in or part time live out. Girls Group Home. Near downtown So. Bend. Excellent experience op­portunity tor students in Soc, Psych, or related fields. Salaried. Married couple (no children) or 2 women. Girls are 14-17 yrs. Eight is capacity. Reply to Mrs. Carol Wilken, 233-9491. 
Wanted: 8 tickets to Miami game. Call 255-7034 between 10:00 and 5:00. 
Need GA tickets for Rice Army or Miami. Call 288-3176. 
Desperately need two GA tix tor Army. Call Rahj, 1612, 
Whalebone, WP let it ride this time. But don't give us that back seat story again! 
The Dudes. 

Four Army GA tix. Call John or Kathy, 282-1568. 
Wanted: 1 Rice ticket or else. Call me now. 284-4371. 
Desperately need 2 Rice tickets. Call 684-1010. 
Help! The clan is making its first trip ever to N.D. Desperately need GA Pitt tickets. Call 3665. 
Wanted: May Fair Rest waiters, 5­10-11 pm. Parttime or tulltime. Must be21. $1.25 plus tips. 255-5517. 
Need 4 GA tix for Pitt game. Call Mary Beth, 4704. 
Need ride to NYC area for break. Ca II Katie, 5493. 
Need ride to Boston tor Oct. break. Call Tim 8591. 
Needed: 2 rides from Navy game back to N.D. Call Mary, 6141, or Patty, 6804. 
Desperately need ride to Boston area for Oct. break. Call Jim, 8439. 
Need ride to N.Y. City weekend of Oct. 11, 12, 13. Will share expenses. Call Dave, 1197. 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO MIAMI GAME. CALL DR. MAISON, AT 271-9895, BETWEEN 7:00 AND 
9:00 P.M. 
NOTICES • 

Will do typing. Term papers, etc. CaII 233-4487. 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND ­NOW AVAILABLE FOR DAN­CES, PARTIES, AND PRE-GAME PERFORMANCES. CALL 272-9895 AFTER 7:00 FOR IN­FORMATION. 
Irish Lampoon is now accepting articles, stories, cartoons. For info, ca II 272-8724 between 9 & 11 :30 p.m. 
HOCKEY GAME: CAMPUS VIEW CRUNCHIES VS. THE ALUMNI DOGS. TUESDAY, OCT. 8 AT 10:30, A.C.C. RINK. TO SIGN UP, CALL CLIFF AT 272-9895 AFTER 8:00 P.M. 
Money? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFortune ·daily, 11:15. 12:15. 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFOR­TUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER ARE 12:15-5:00 MWF, AND 11:00 -1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TT. 
Legal problems but no money? 
N.D. Legal Aid can help. Call 283­7795 M-F, 1-4 pm. 
TICKETS FOR THE OCTOBER 20 AEROSMITH & MAHOGANY RUSH CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
I am doing a paper on Death. If you have ever had an experience very close to death (i.e., life passing before you, etc. J and wouldn't mind being asked a few questions, call Joe, 3663. 
Need a ride tor semester break? Wilson driveaway has cars going to many spots in the U.S. and your only expense is gas. For Info, call Jim Scott, 1694. Due to an abundance of cars going to Miami, special offers including partial or complete gas allowances are being made. Check it out. 
FOR SALE 
For sale: 6-string acoustic guitar with case. Excellent condition. $75. Call Tom, 1409. 
PERSONALS 
Mickey, We didn't lose. Look DEEP into the bottle, for you a robins Springstein, word forward. Stop, listen, look both ways. Then cross the street. 
A Wyoming Chumb 
To: Sue, JoAnn, Barb D., Karen, 
Barb L., Mary Ann, and Julie: Thanks so much for kissing the goons. How can I ever repay you? 
Love you all, Andy 
Peg or Sue going south as far as Daytona Beach. If you have room left please call Rex at 3510. 
No more fake 1D's needed tor Ray Schnori. Happy Birthday. 
To my Moonlight Crooner: You are loved. 
Jo 
K.C. Dick: 
"One of the best!" Love, Robin, Joan, Sue-Ann 
Dr. Mike: Thanks tor the treatment the other nite. Yoljr bedside manner is fantastic!• Can I make another appointment? 
c. 
MEN-WOMEN: Jobs on ships! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. SEAFAX DEPT. G-13 P.O. BOX 2049 PORT ANGELES, WASH. 98362. 
Dear O'Grady Lady: Happy Birthday\ How does it feel to be a teenager? Maybe your hair will grow back by the time your next birthday rolls around. 
Love, The Shirt-tail Kid 
Dear Moanin' Joan Miller: Happy Birthday. See, you're not embarrassed, are you? 
Schnooks 

--~--------­
the observer Tuesday OCtober 8, 1974 
Tight 1-H contest develops among undefeated teams 
bullish fullback Craig Tigh added came on the first series, with 
by John Higgins 78 yards and one score. The Stellar· quarterback Tim Pun­defense, led by Mike Kemp, Carl tarelli hitting Bob Zwik on 23­
a 
Dillon coach Mike Bierley, who Weyand, and Kevin Donohoe, held yard scoring toss. The victory

steered his squad to an unbeaten proved a costly one, however, as
P-F completely at bay and set upseason and its third campus two scores with fumble recoveries. Puntarelli suffered possible torn 
championship in four years last The following week, Howard was ligaments in his ankle in the 

fall realizes the pressure the victim 22-o with Tigh ex­second quarter and may be lost for 
"coiieague" Ara Parseghian ploding for 84 yards and O'Neil the season. Four other Morrissey 
shoulders in defendin~ a title. starters were banged up in the
chipped in with 50 and another two
Sounding like the Irish head man scores. Defensive end Bob Derdak action and could be out for the next 
himself, the second-year Big Red two games.
was all over the field to frustrateBoss said yesterday, "It's going to 
the Howard offense, which wasn't The surprisingly-strong Sorin be a tremendously difficult given many opportunities anyway team began its season last Sunday schedule from here on, especially as the Dillon ground forces kept with a 18-o pasting of St. Joe's as 
since everyone seems to get extra­the ball the entire third period and another standout defensive effort psyched to play us. Morrissey allowed Howard only 6 plays in the allowed only 24 total yards and looks as tough as ever and Sorin second half, two of which resulted scored a TD on a 5o-yard passhas been quite impressive, and we 

in turnovers. interception return by Tom have to play them both within a 4­"Tough as ever" Morrissey was Kwiecien. Rich Chamberlain and day period at the end of the season. 
just that in its two opening contests Norb Shickles added short touch­Getting to the championship game as it kept pace with rival Dillon in down runs while quarterback John won't be easy." 
the South standing as well as in Lonsberg scrambled repeatedly
Unlike the Irish and the Miami fewest points allowed, as the for long gains. Tom Gillespie was 
Dolphins, the defending pro 

the defensive leader for the Sorin
Marauders drubbed Alumni 16-0
football titleists, Dillon has not Zahm's Dave Mayer breaking away on a 95-yard run against
and edged fired-up Pangborn 6-zip. squad, which attributed much of 
been knocked off its number one Cavanaugh last Sunday under the lights at Cartier. Heading into
its improvement and early success 
Kevin Horton and Paul Furey
pedestal and has appeared the third week of play are five unbeaten teams--Dillon, Morrissey, 
tallied on short bursts in the to its chemical-engineering prof­
anything but sluggish in its two Holy Cross. Grace, and Stanford.
Alumni contest, with Brooks coach, Dr. James Carberry.
tests thus far. Capitalizing on two In the final South Quad contest game. HC downed Cavanaugh by the goal line. Strickroth added his 
Humphries adding the con­
costly tur!"overs and utilizing . a played to date, Howard (1-1) the identical 6-0 score under the second touchdown of the year in a
versions. But the defense led by
punishing ground game, the Big tackle Mike White was the stopped winless St. Joe 14-6. lights at Cartier Field on Wed-14-8 win over Flanner on a 25-yard Red opened with a 20-o blanking of nesday evening as quarterback blast up the middle on the game's 
. highlight of the game as it held
Pangborn-Fisher. Running behind North Division Mark Anzelon hit Bedford Bruno first series, andnBob Kelly gar­
Alumni to negative total yards and 
an aggressive line anchored by with a 5-yard TD aerial, and on the nered the winner on a 10-yard
scored two points of its own when
Frank Tombari and Tim Cun­The situation on the North Quad following Sunday, the Anzelon-sweep in the second period. The
middle linebacker Jim Dwyer
ningham, shifty quarterback Mike shapes up to be just as much a Bruno combination again ac-defense, headed by noseguard Bill
tackled the Alumni QB in the end
O'Neil scampered for 62 yards and dogfight as is the Southern countee for the winning points, a 2-Irvine, held Flanner in check until 
zone. The lone score against P-f
2 touchdowns, one a 42-yarder, and Division, with three teams still point conversion following a the final period when the Tower unbeaten. Darkhorse contender George Duke touchdown in a come-team got on the board after a 7o­Holy Cross gave notice of its might from-behind, 8-7 thriller over yard TD run. as it came out on top in three Keenan, last year's runner-up to Grace scored in the last two games played within one week, Dillon. minutes in both of its contests to and is now perched atop the North Holy Cross' main challengers, break open scoreless battles to standings with half its regular Stanford and Grace, each won down Cavanaugh 6-Q and Keenan 8­
The Irish Eye 
season complete. Holy Cross their opening pair of games to stay o. Passes from Mike McGarry to began its muderous week by close to the top in the title race. tight end Luigi Pereira accounted blanking Flanner 6-0 on a Larry Stanford allowed Zahm only 7 total for both scores, one for 20 yards in 
McCrief 3-yard run as the defense yards and no first downs en route 
prevented Flanner from crossing to a 14-Q victory as Mike Strickroth (continued on page 7) The oddsmakers should have been a might happier last weekend. into Holy Cross territory the entire and Bob Cook tallied from close to Instead of another outbreak of upsets in college football, Saturday's 
action stuck pretty close to the script. With the exception of Kansas' 28-10 win over fifth-ranked Texas A&M and North Carolina's shocking 45-29 drubbing of Pittsburgh, the only major casualties were a few grey hairs 

Golfers second in Irish tourney
suffered by Michigan's Bo Schembechler and Alaba_ma's Bear Brya~t. The Wolverines were behind Stanford 9-6 at halftime, but a 14 pomt 
by Bill Delaney two-year starter from Sobridge, troubles with the greens."
rally in the third period and a last second touchdown were too much for Mass. thought the consistency of Practice preparation for thethe Cardinals and UM won 27-16. Alabama trailed Mississippi in thethird The Irish Linkers concluded his play was the key to his success tournament was one of the possible quarter 21-14 until the Tide's pr~mier halfback ~illie Shelby went into their fall season Friday on a sour this fall. "My consistency has explanations for the team's per­action 'Barna exploded for 21 pomts and a 35-21 wm. 
note, finishing second to Indiana definitely been my strong point­
Not~e Dame opponents took a beating Saturday although. Georgia formance said a dejected
State in the Notre Dame In­I've had a number of mediocre O'Sullivan afterwards. "I reallyTech beat Virginia, who has yet to win a game, 28-24, and Northwestern vitational. The Invitational, held rounds this year, and Friday was think that we didn't have thegot their first victory of the season dumping the Oregon Ducks 14-10. 
at the Burke Course under fair no exception," noted Koprowski. proper attitude going into theArmy lost to Penn State 21-14, Air Force ~ropped a heartbreaker to weather conditions, featured some "I hit nothing exceptionally well tournament," said O'Sullivan.
Colorado 28-27, Pittsburgh lost to North Carohna ad Navy was swamped 
fine individual performances by today, but at the same time, I "Many members of the teamby Boston College, a 1975 Notre Dame oppone~t, 37-o. 0~ the plus s1de, the Irish, but in the words of Coach didn't hit anything exceptionally couldn't play during the week due Southern California upped its record to 2-1 with a 41-3 victory over the Noel O'Sullivan, "We felt shocked bad, so I should be grateful." to their studies and tests, so theIowa Hawkeyes. Miami of Florida dropped their first game of the season and disappointed in our play, and I Also among the leaders for Notre lack of practice definitely hurtto unbeaten Auburn 3-0 Friday night. 
feel that overconfidence from last Dame were Eddie Whelan, Rich them." Co-eaptain Jeff Burda The Irish Eye's top twenty: week with Purdue did us in." Knee and co-eaptain Mike Kistner; 
echoed O'Sullivan sentiments. "I 
Medalist for the Irish was junior with Whelan firing a 76 and Knee
No. Weekend Results Position last week had two tests this week, and that 
Paul Koprowski, who had rounds and Kistner having identical 79's. really threw me off for Friday."1.) Ohio State (4-Q) Beat Washington St. 42-7 1 of 38 and 37 for a four-Qver 75. "We "I don't know why, but I had a commented Burda. "I'm not2.) Oklahoma (3-Q) Beat Wake Forest 63-o 2 were very pleased of Paul's round terrible time putting." said Knee, trying to make any excuses for my3.) Michigan (4-Q) Beat Stanford 27-16 3 Friday-he hit the ball well, and who had six three-putt greens. round, but it was just one of those4.) Nebraska (3-1} Beat Minnesota 54-Q 5 looked very sparkling in his per­"The course was in great shape, days when everything doesn't
5.) Alabama (4-Q) Beat Mississippi 35-21 4 formance." said O'Sullivan. The but practically all of us found some click."
6.) USC (2-1) Beat Iowa 41-3 6 
With the conclusion of the fall
7. Notre Dame (3-1) Beat Michigan State 19-14 7 season, the linkers will now be able 
8.) Arizona (4-Q) Beat UTEP 8 
to take a breather from golf. "Now

Student hockey and b-ball
9. > Auburn (4-Q) Beat Miami 3-o unranked the team can settle down to being10.) Miami (2-1) Lost to Auburn 3-o 11 
full-time students again." noted11.) Wisconsin (3-1) Beat Missouri 59-20 17 O'Sullivan. "We'll be playing

ticket distribution is set
12. > Texas (3-1) Beat Washington 35-21 10 twice a week as a group until the13. > Texas A&M (3-1) Lost to Kansas 28-10 9 snow falls, and then we'll start our
14.) North Carolina State (4-Q) Beat East Carolina 24-20 unranked Ticket Manager Donald Bouf There is a maximum of fall conditioning at the ACC. The15.) Arkansas (3-1} Beat TCU 49-Q 14 fard announced the student ticke1 5,000student tickets available, with 
team will be issued sweats and16.) Tulane (3-Q) Did not play 15 allocation for basketball ticket! the lower arena tickets going for their equipment and will be hitting 
17.) Florida (4-Q) Beat LSU 24-14 unranked yesterday. The schedule covers 1• $28.00 and the Bleachers for $21.00, at nets the
inside the in ACC.
18.) Texas Tech (2-1-1} Beat Oklahoma State 14-13 unranked home games, including: a 50 per cent discount from face During midsemester, we'll go19.) Penn State (3-1) Beat Army 21-14 16 value. 
down south on our spring tour, and 
20.) UCLA (2-1-1) Beat Utah 27-14 20 Dec. 4 NORTHWESTERN To purchase tickets, bring your 
then come back to school to begin
Dec. 7 PRINCETON 
I.D., your remittance, and the IBM our spring schedule."
Dec. 9 KANSAS

and the worst ten: card that will be sent in the near The Notre Dame golf team
Dec. 11 INDIANA 

future to the ticket windows on the finished their fall schedule with a1.) Wake Forest (o-4) Lost to Oklahoma 63-o 1 Jan. 20 HOLY CROSS second floor of the ACC on the win and a loss against perennially 
2.) Columbia <o-2> Lost to Princeton 40-13 2 Jan. 25 UCLA 3.) Virginia Tech (0-4) Lost to Virginia Military 3 Feb. 1 XAVIER following dates according to tough Purdue, and a second-place
classes: 

showing in the Notre Dame In­
4.) Indiana (0-4) Lost to West Virginia 24-Q 9 Feb. 5 MICHIGAN ST. 
vitational. Not bad for a team that
5. > Utah State <0-3) Did not play 6 Feb. 8 · SO. CAROLINA Monday, Nov. 4-Seniors
6.) Southern Mississippi (0-4) Lost to West Texas State 31-0 8 Feb. 10 AIR FORCE offers no scholarships, but has 
Tuesday, Nov. 5--Juniors 
some of the finest players in the
7.) Utah Lost to UCLA 27-14 5 Feb. 15 LA SALLE Wednesday, Nov. 6--Grad and Law Midwest. Things are looking fine8.> Army {1-3) Lost to Penn State 21-14 4 Feb. 17 ST. JOE <Ind.) 
Students for the linkers, and should be even9.) Tulsa {1-3) Lost to Tennessee 17-10 9 Feb. 25 FORDHAM (continued on page 7) better in the spring.

10.) Oregon {1-3) Lost to Northwestern 14-10 unranked Mar. 1 DAYTON 









