
--~ --------------------------~----­

Oa The IDslde 
Shakespeare marathon ... page 5 Julian Bond 
... page 7 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX No. 21 Thursday, September 26, 1974 
Julian Bond calls for new responsiveness to needs 
by Marlene Zloza Manae:ing Editor 
Attacking current federal government operations and policies, Georgia legislator Julian Bond last night called for a "national coalition of need" to help influence elections and make government responsive to contemporary needs. 
Speaking on "current events" to an overflow crowd in the Library Auditorium, the 34-year-old politician expressed concern that "many people don't keep in touch" with their surroundings. 
"Things are moving so fast that you must be 
careful that they don't sweep you away," 
warned Bond. We recently had "a president that 
impeached himself and was exposed as a cheat, 
liar and petty thief," he continued. "And now he 
has been pardoned and is not in jail as are others 
who were not born rich or politically powerful." 
Bond then referred to Lyndon Johnson's past 
characterization of our current president as "a 
man who can't walk and chew gun at the same 
time" and added that "he has apparently started 
chewing gum again." 
In beginning his lecture, Bond gave a short 
"mock speech" in which he called himself a 
"politician by profession" and discussed the 
profession as it stands now. "I belo?,g to ~e 
finest body of men that money can buy, he said. 
Bond then noted the "spectacular amount of 
corruption" in government today and gave some 
of the reasons for it. "One reason is the innate 
venality of some people and another is the low 
level of pay that people in politics receive," he 
detailed. "This makes politicians susceptible to 
bribes and paybacks that they may be offered." 
Moving into a broader perspective on current 
events, Bond noted that while great changes are 
taking place in other parts of the globe 
Americans see themselves existing in a vacuum. 
"Only here is there. indifference . and 
disorganization, only hert; IS there uncertamty 
and indecision," Bond said. 
Throughout his address, Bond referred to his 
extensive notes for a variety of stylized phrases 
and memorable quotations. . 
Returning to his attack on the present national 
leadership, Bond claimed that "the reins of 
government have been seized by a group of the 
comfortable, callous and smug" who have 
"closed their hearts, closed their minds, and 
closed their ranks" to the forgotten elements. 
This in turn has caused the "national 
nullification of the needs of the needy," ac­
cording to the Southern Democrat. 
Bond characterized the "coalition of need" as 
those "people who work for a living but can't live 
on what they make and those who can't find work 
and can't live on what we so grudgingly give 
them. 
He further stated that this coalition should 
work to turn this year's Congressional elections 
toward a committment to a more representative 
government. Bond classified the present 
national representatives as "people from an 
earlier ear" whose concerns were rural and 
farm-oriented rather than urban. 
Bond blamed the last two national elections for giving the electoral power to a group that "reinstated the fiscal fascists" and "insured a 

Julian Bond: Only here is there indiffernce and disorganization, only here is'there uncertainty and indecision. 
consistent arrogant contempt for people and their problems." Coupled with an "impotent Congress" this has cut most of the pople at the bottom of the class structure charged Bond. 
Commenting on the present shift from the Kennedy and Johnson administrations' slow­moving advances, Bond accused the government of changing from one of ''benign concern to malignant neglect." 
"Although New Frontier and Great Society programs recuced by one-third the number of people at the poverty level, Bond explained, "they still managed to kill, freeze, or wind down" a variety of social programs such as urban renewal education, and student loans. "This amounted to a 60 percent national pullback of social concerns," said Bond. 
"Share the wealth plans only consolidated it away from the cities, the poor and the young and into established wealth," he charged. 
Moving into the seventies, Bond accused the country of "thinking the black problem had burned out or blown away," while the average black was still dying seven years earlier than the average white and "the blacks were still the last to be hired, and the first to be fired." 
"Many people thought the New Federalism was the promise of manna but it turned into only a few pennies," stated Bond. This shifted the burden from the federal level, where the resources were, to the state and local level, where the resources weren't." 
Comparing the current period to the Recon­struction Era, Bond called the parallels "more fthan frightening." 
He noted that both then and now, a "president desperate for power entered into an illicit relationship," believing private gain could be masked by public concern. 
Also in both periods liberal crusaders for democracy became tired and politics became misdirected by the "mightly manipulators of the American mind," Bond noted. 
Of the present situtaion Bond stressed that "too many of us tired and turned from the social committments, and social concern began to be measured by the length of hair or complexity of handshake." 
In the same vein, Bond noted the change from student activism and protest demonstrations to the streaking fad. 
Many people have taken the attitude that "if they can't be part of a massive crusade to save the world, they won't be part of any movement," Bond charged. 
Turning to the area of political support and endorsement, Bond warned the audience not to vote for a candidate that may have a favorable stand on one issue but be on the wrong side of another one. "There has to be a confluence of forces now," he said. "If a candidate is on the right side of the pollution problem but wrong on people, he should be corrected to be right on people" 
Bond concluded his speech by addressing those 
who think "the problems of the world can be 
magically solved." He strongly stressed that the 
importance of "taking the first step yourself" 
and getting involved rather than sitting still and 
waiting for others to take the initiative. 
Answering a wide variety of questions from 
. -.(continued on page 4) 


7 
Ombudsman Director Bill Mclean has announced the trial basis for the new off-campus shuttle. 
OC shuttle begins 
The "Quickie" a weekend off-campus shut tle bus service to the South Bend and Roseland-Niles areas, will begin this Friday on a trial basis. 
The service initiated by the Social Commission and Om­budsman Servi~es under the approval of Vice President of Student Mfairs , Bro. Just Pacze sny will run on a tentative time schedule to be released Thursday night to the students. 
Under this schedule, buses will leave every Friday from the Circle beginning at 8:30p.m. continuing until the last bus departs at 
1:30 a.m. Saturday. . 
The "Quickie" will operate on a two route or loop basis. The northern loop will provide transportation along Route 31 to areas including Boar's Head, Denny's, Village Inn, McDonald's, Jay's, Lounge, Shula's, and Kubiak's. 
The southern loop takes in areas such as the Notre Dame Apartments, Rocco's, River Bend Plaza, Scottsdale Mall, the downtown theartres, Eddie's, Wooden Keg, and the Town and Countyrvry Shopping Center. 
A bus ride will cost the individual an initial $.25 upon payment of which his hand will be stamped. Any additional use of the service will cost the marked passenger a only $.10 more per ride. 
Security will be undertaken by a two man team of "stewards" who will occupy eve~y bus in operation. ~heri _roles incl~de collecting fares makmg change , and deahng with any xsick passengers, tro~blemakers or those w~o attempt to _bring alcohol on the bus. The latter will not be permitted to remam on the bus. The stewards will also answer questions concerning the route of the vehicle. 
In providing this shuttle service, the Social Commission and Ombudsman Service stressed in itheir joint policy statement that they are "rE-lying on the maturity and responsibility of the Notre Dame body in regards to the bus servicing Michi~an .bars." .. 
The statement ·points out that both orgamzabons beleuecve that alcohol plays a significant role in the social activities of the students. The shuttle provides access to an area where such ac­tivities involving alcohol may legally be conducted. 
The ·service was also cited to be a 1minimizer of automobile accidents that might occur from increased traffic to Michigan in view of the recent Indiana ruling. 
The northern loop of the shuttle will be serviced by one 41 pas;.;enger bus, -· and a complete cir~uit will. average 40 minutes. It will operate from 8:30 p.m. Friday until 2:30 a.m. 
(continued on page 3) 

Lt. Calley conviction 
reversed for My Lai 
FJ. LEAVENWORTH, Kan. reversed his conviction for the <UP ) -Former Army Lt. William murder of civilians during the My Calley will not be released from Lai massacre. the U.S. Disciplinary Barracks An Army spokesman said Calley until the Justice Department had requested an unobtrusive exit decides whether to appeal a ruling from the prison and had said there overturning Calley's My Lai would be no statement or news murder conviction, an Army conference. Calley reportedly has spokesman said Wednesday night. hired a car to pick him up at the 
The Army recommended an gate as soon as the order for his appeal and also asked that the . release comes from the Pentagon. release order be stayed. Calley The spokesman said Calley could will be returned to regular duties be released on as little as half an and normal routine, the hour's notice if the processing spokesman said. pap!)rwork is out of the way. 
Earlier Wednesday the former Calley arrived at the Army officer began preliminary disciplinary barracks on June 26 to processing in apparent an-begin his first extended term in ticipation of his release. prison for his conviction. 
Calley was removed from his The Army had indicated it may clerical duties at the military appeal the judge's reversal, but prison early Wednesday when a 1 Calley"':ould have bee~ eligible for federal court judge in Georgia parme m November_ m any case. 

warld briefs 

BEIRUT <UPI ) -Lebanese Premier Takieddin Solh Wednesday submitted the resignation of his 15-month-old government in face of mounting criticism of his failure to combat inflation and safeguard internal security. 
NEW YORK <UPil -Arab foreign ministers conferred in New York Wednesday on mounting world pressure for a rollback in oil prices. France took a lead in resisting skyrocketing prices by announcing a 10 per cent cut in oil imports. 
LONDON (UPI) -Britain's Army Minister, Lord Brayley, resigned Wednesday after Prime Minister Harold Wilson told him there would be an investigation of business firms with which Brayley has been associated. 
NICOSIA <UPil -Greek and Trukish Cypriots exchanged more than 500 prisoners Wednesday, bringing the total for the week to almost 1,600. An estimated 5,000 prisoners were captured in the summer war. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The blood clot found in Former President Richard M. Nixon's lung, although small, is a warning that the persistent blood vessel inflammation in his leg could create more serious and possibly fatal complications, a government specialist said Wednesday. 
PHNOM PENH (UPI) -Cambodian Communist gunners fired hundreds of mortar shells Wednesday into besieged Kompong Seila, southwest of Phnom Penh, killing 12 soldiers and civilians and wounding four others, field reporters said. 
NEW YORK <UPI) -Trustees of the Ford Foundation voted unanimously Wednesday not to dissolve the foundation because of declining assets, but postponed a decision on possible budget cuts. 
an campus today 

--alumni board, natl. directors of alumni on campus throuQh sat. 
4 p.m.-lecture,"how to Interview for the marketing job" by frank 
fox, 124 hayes-healy. 
4 p.m.--seminar, "radlolytlc studies of pyrldlnal radicals" by dr. p. nets, con. rm. of rad. lab. 
4 p.m.--colloquim, "med. In the reatrded: long-term effects" by john borkowskl, rm. 117 hagger hall. 
4:30 p.m.--colloQuim, lecture by dr. anthony bakof unlv. of bonn, w. germany, 226, comp. center. 
7 p.m.--lecture, "career opprotunltles" by dr. marshall w. dennis .and robert f. macswaln, lib aud. 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "t.s. eliot", by elisabeth noel, madlva emm. 
8 p.m.--concert, bruce guftafson, harpsichord recital, stapleton lg. lemans hall. 
8& 10 p.m.--movie' hltchocks "dial m for murder," eng. aud, Sl. 
Attention All Hall Judicial Board Olairmen 
contact the Secretarv at Student Government ( 6413) to set up appointments with the Judical Coordinator URGENT! 

---~--­
.
•
Chairman forecasts limited success 



Clemency board meets 
dell, long an outspoken critic of forward and forget that oast." 
U.S. policy in Vietnam, told
By DAVID E. ANDERSON 
reporters. 

From the briefings, the board found its workload could WASHINGTON (UPI) involve review of up to about
"The ideal goal with which

President Ford's clemency re­120,000 cases, including 111,000
we are charged is intrinsically 

cases involving desertion fromview board for convicted 
impossible of attaining because

Vietnam-era draft evaders and the military and 8,700 draft 
we cannot undo the past. We 
violation cases.

military deserters held its first 
cannot undo the past for those

meeting Wednesday but the 
who went to Vietnam and

chairman forecast only limited 
suffered, perhaps could not Goodell told reporters the success "because we cannot come back, and we cannot undo military had earlier estimated undo the past." the past for those who have that there could be as many as been imprisoned." 216,000 desertion cases that would fall under the clemencyThe board named as its top board's jurisdiction, but during
priority the cases of 103 draft the briefings the figure was
But Goodell said he felt that

resisters imprisoned at the time scaled down to 111,000.
"the President has come up

of Ford's clemency proclama­
with a fair program" and

tion and 40 servicemen still in added: "We intend to do our When Ford announced hismilitary stockades on absence­best to make this program earned re-entry clemency pro­related charges. 
work, alleviating the suffering gram, there were 194 men in of the past to the degree that stockades on desertion-related it's in our power to do so and charges, the board was told. Of healing the wounds of the ' these, 154 have been released,The nine-member board, country so that we can look leaving 40 still being held.
headed by former New York Republican Sen. Charles E. 
Goodell, was sworn in and SWEENEY'S SHAMROCK
briefed by officials of the 
Justice Department, the Penta-SHIRTS ARE lN 
gon and the Selective Service System in the morning and met All SIZES -· lALJIL£ TH'~Y L.AC"T
with Ford at the White House Vvnl 1: ~ before resuming its delibera-n 0 rice in c r e a s e tions next door at the Executive ··~iiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiil-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiililiiii!!~iiiiiii~-iiiiiiiiiiO-iiiiiiii~~iiiiiiii,.;;;;;;::;.;~ 
OfficeBuilding. 

mCft'l hail llyling 

Goodell, at a news conference 


h • 5 1• 
following the panel's 35-minute 

men'S atr ty In
meeting with Ford, said the President had given the mem-~ bers "a task of monumental ~ 
proportions and complexity" in A ..•_. #II ; ,. 3,jut;.. trying to mete out justice. ~ ## .. W " • ., 
"The board carries essential· 

ly the responsibility of trying to WHATEVER THE 

equalize relative justice." Goo 

• 
The Observer Is publiShed dally 
during the college semester except ' vacations by the students of the ' 



2;;0:-~:t~(or···~,l
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 

s\1
Indiana 46556. Second class· HAIR CARE FOR MEN postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544 

1421 S. ~alnut Street (21.9) 233-9441 South Bend, Indiana 46627 
SENIOR HOCKEY AT THE "ICE BOX" Pro Shop -Skate Sharpening -2 Rinks -Public Skating -Figure Skating -Lessons -Snacks ­Arcade -.Skate Rental -Free Parking 
SENIOR HOCKEY-"CHECK" AND "NO CHECK" DIVISIONS­Play in either or both divisions-16 men per team -Locker rooms with showers available-16 game season with holiday tourney and ~layoffs -Jerseys and referees furnished -$3.50 per game -Game hmes 9:15pm and 10:45 pm. SIGN UP NOW for league starting October 18th. 
For more mformation on this and our other programs call (219)2.33-9441 
••••••••••••••••••••••••• SENIOR HOCKEY•••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
3 

.  APPLICATION--­ ---SEND MORE INFORMATION  
Fri. "CHECK"  ---­ ---AGE  
Sun. "NO CHECK'!  --­ POSITION  

Name!--------------------------------­Address---------------------Phone---­

Goldrick cmd Jones express views 
ND women discussed 
by Fred Herbst 
Staff Reporter The admittance of female students to the University is a very complex process and the future of coeducation at Notre Dame is still undecided, according to Director of Admissions John Goldrick and Assistant Provost Sr. John Miriam Jones. Goldrick described the method by which the number of women accepted in a particular class as very complex. A final decision on the numbers is made by the University Provost along with the University President after receiving the recommendations from. an ex­tremely diverse faculty committee under the chairmanship of Fr. Ferdinand Brown, associate provost, Goldrick explained. Numerous factors enter into the decision including the availability of housing for women students. Yet Goldrick stated that "probably the major consideration is the applicant pool." A determination of the number of women in next fall's freshman class has not yet been made. While being unable to predict an increase of women for next year, the Director of Admissinos remarked 
SMC prmty raid thwarted 
A small crowd of students were 
thwarted in their attempt to 
conduct a panty raid on St. Mary's 
campus early this morning by 
several Notre 'Dame ad­
ministrators from the Office of 
Student Affairs. 
A group of about 150 would -be panty raiders were met in the middle of Route U.S. 31 at 1 a.m. by Dean of Students John Macheca, 
McCarry gets new])OSition 
Ann McCarry, a senior in 
American Studies, has recently 
accepted a student position with 
the University's Printing and 
Publication office, publishers of 
Notre Dame Magazine, and is 
vacating her position as Observer 
Editorial Editor. 
A junior in American Studies and 
staff veteran, Fred Graver, has 
been named to sudceed McCarry. 
The appointment and resignation 
were announced at an Observer 
Editorial Board meeting last night 
by Observer Editor Tom Drape. 
McCarry will remain on the staff 
as a Contributing Editor. 
(continued from page 1) 
O.C shuttle 
Saturday. 
The southern loop will be ser­viced by two 45 passenger buses with a round trip averaging 60 minutes. 
One bus will start operations 
from the Circle at 8:30 p.m. and 
loop to and from downtown until 
1:30 a.m. The second bus will start from Town and Country at 9 p.m. and continue the reverse loop until 2 a.m. 
The shuttle is a non-profit service run at a const of ap­proximately $350.00 a week with an income expected at 1$150.00 weekly. The deficit will hopefully be counteracted by the financial backing of Student Government and-or Student Union. 
The policy statement was issued by Bill McLean, director of Om­budsman Services, Bill Bracken, deputy director, Rich Guiltinan, Social Commissioner and Mary Siegal, assistant Social Com­missioner after receiving the approval of Paczesny. 
that there "probably won't be any 
than this year's number." 
Sr. John Miriam stated that there are presently 375 women in the freshman class, and she an­
ticipates a slight  increase  next  
year.  
There  currently 1100 women  

at the University. The Assistant Provost projected a figure of 1300 women students next year and the realization of the University's goal of 1500 women students by the fall of 1976. 
Stating that the ratio of men to women is 3 to 2 in colleges across the country, Jones said that when the goal of 1500 women student s is reached, the University will "re­evaluate" coeducation and decide where to go from there. 
Revealing that there is housing for less than a thousand women, she stated that women will "eventually take part in a lottery" to determine who gets campus housing. The lottery will be the same as that which men took partin this past year. 
"Ultimately, there will be a proportional amount of housing for men and women" according to the Assistant Provost. 
Vice Predsident for Studentnt Affairs Br. Just Paczesny, Director of Staff Development Robert Ackerman and a SMC security officer. The ad­ministrators , who were there in response to a request by St. Mary's officials, dispeersed the crowd within ten minutes. 
The students retreated to the Notre Dame side of the road, where they joined in a chorus of the Fight Song. Shortly thereafter, the group dispersed, returning to the Notre Dame campus. 
Assistance had been requested 
by St. Mary's a as a result of the 
.


MUSlC progrCD11 set 
A program of music by Mozart, Mendelssohn and Schubert will be performed by visiting artists Anne Perillo, soprano, and Leo Michuda, violin, in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. Friday, Oct. 4. 
Miss Perillo is a graduate of Juilliard School of Music and has been presented in concert throughout Europe and America. The New York Times described her Town Hall debut in 1967 as "impressive throughout in in­tonation, diction and musical understanding." She recently completed a recording with the Chicago Symphony String Quartet, a group planning to visit Notre Dame on October 23. 
A graduate of Notre Dame, Leo Michuda received his musical training at the Juilliard School. He presently serves as assistant concertmaster of the Skokie Symphony and performs with the Northwest Indiana Symphony 
Orchestra. At Notre Dame he will 
OBSERVER 
ADVERTISING 
CALL 



283-7471 

concern expressed by the McCandless Hall staff at a recent SLC meeting. Three resident assistants had reported several incidents of damage and undure injury to SMC students. 
The last two panty raids have claimed over $1,200 damage each, as well as several incidents ht­hcases of injury. 
The three Student Affairs ad­ministrators arrived at the en­trance of the St. Mary's campus at about 12:15 a.m. Their request for students to doisperse centered on previous complaints by SMC students and officials. 
Despite these housing problems, Jones stressed that the Farley· Motel will remain open to guests and will not be converted into dormitory space. 
Speaking of the still young coeducational experience at Notre Dame, Jones said that she feels things have gone "very well," with many "things yet to be done." 
The Assistant Provost pointed out several problems facedby coeducation, such as fighting a 130 year old tradition. Yet perhaps the largest single problem is that approximately 50 per cent of all incoming students attended either all-male or all-female high schools. 
"So it is at Notre Dame," Sr. John Miriam said, "that these students get their first adult exposure to one another." 
Jones is optimistic about coeducation at Notre Dame and views it as a necessity because the University is "dedicated to the toal development of the individual." 
The Assistant Provost also said that it is time women are becoming part of Notre Dame because "women are now moving into the framework of society." 
perform on his "Sylvestre" Stradivarius which was crafted in 1708. 
Homecoming 
package 

Student Union is offering a 
homecoming package ticket deal 
for the Gordon Lightfoot Concert 
(Friday, Oct. 11) and the 
"Cabaret" party (Saturday, Oct. 
12). 

Only the concert tickets went on 
sale Wednesday, Sept. 25. The 
Homecoming party tickets will go 
on sale Friday,. Sept. 27. 
If a student presents the two 
concert tickets on Friday at the 
ACC or Student Union, he or she 
will be given a $2.00 dis<:ount on 
party tickets, which will bthen cost 
$4.00. 

Stuedent Union has only 150 
concert-party discounts. After 
these are sold, the "Cabaret" to­
ickets will cost $6.00. 
John Goldrick: the major con­Sr. John Miriam Jones: ultimately
sideration in the number of ac­there will be proportional
a 

ceptances is the applicant pool amount of housing for and
men women 

POLICY STATEMENT-SOCIAL COMMISSION AND OMBUDSMAN SERVICE 
THE NEW SHUTTLE SERVICE 
TThe Social Commission in conjunction with the Ombudsman Service will institute, beginning Friday, September 27, 1974, a weekend shuttle bus service to both the South Bend and Roseland­Niles areas. 
Route number 1 of the shuttle will provide transportation to the areas including the Notre Dame Apartments, Rocc's, River Bend Plaza, Scottsdale Mall, and the Town and Country Shopping Center. Route number 2 of the shuttle will provide transportation north from campus along Rt. 31, to areas including Denny's, McDonald's, Jay's Lounge, Shula's, and Kubiak's. 
This shuttle is being initiated as a service to both campus and off­campus students. The advantages of the shuttle ·are many. For no more than $.25, students will be accorded transportation to the leading centers of social activity in the South Bend area. Movie theaters, bars, shopping centers, off-campus student neigh­borhoods, and restaurants will now be available. The busses will leave from the Circle beginning at 8:30p.m. Friday and will con­tinue until the final bus pulls into the Circle at 1:30 a.m. Saturday. 
Both the Social Commission and the Ombudsman Service would like to emphasize that they are relying on the maturity and responsibility of the Notre Dame student body in regards to the bus serving Michigan bars. Providing such a service is an alternative to the present alcohol rules on campus dictated by Indiana State law. We would like to point out that providing the bus north has two other positive aspects. Following the change in alcohol rules on campus and foreseeing the possiblility of increased travel to Michigan by cars, the shuttle will help minimize possible automobile accidents. Secondly, it is the belief of the Social Commission and Ombudsman Service that alcohol plays a significant role in social activities of young adults. By ex­periencing alcohol during social functions now, students will be better equipped to responsibly handle alcohol in the future. 
It should be noted that students will not be permitted at any time to transport alcohol on the busses, and that any abuse of this newly provided service will result in its termination. 

SPECIAL ATTENTION: ANYGJE Vv1SHit'G TO APPLY FOR lHE SEN/~ UUB GENERAL MANAGER OR BUSINESS AAANAGER POSITIONS SHOULD SUBMIT AN APPLICATION OF INTENT. IT SHOJLD II'JCLUDE A STATEN.~: NT a= PURPOSE, EXPERIENCE, 
GENERAL BACKGROUND, AND All 
OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT YOURSELF THAT V\OULD PERTAIN TC YOJR MANAGEf\lfNT ABILITIES. 
YOU SHOULD ALSO GET AT LEAST 
THREE(3) RECOVMENDATIONS FROM VARIOOS PEOPLE OF THE NOTRE DMI\E COAMIUNilY. 
ORa> THIS APPLICATION OFF Vv11H 
THE SEffiETARY IN THE STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICE NO LATER THAN THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 



.. \

' ' ~ 




Premature frost sweeps across the Midwest 
By United Press International 
Government agricultural ex­perts said Wednesday the nation's corn and soybean crop yields were cut by this week's premature killing frost across the Midwest, but maintained that early, off-the-cuff esti­
(continued from page 1) 
Bond stresses needs 
the audience, Bono clarified his position on many national issues and problems.
Concerning the pardon of former President Nixon, Bond stated he was not against the pardon itself, but its timing. He disagreed with a pardon given "before a jury of his peers decides he has done anything wrong."
On the 1976 presidential race, Bond, who is an unofficial can­didate for the Democratic nomination, commented that "there will be candidates aplenty. The Democrate won't have a shortage of candidates, but of winners." He named Senators Jackson and Mondale as top contenders. 
As for his vice-presidential hopes, Bond hedged by saying he would like to be vice-president with some people but not with others. He listed Mondale on the positive side and Wallace and Jackson on 


Apollo director to speak 
mates of damage were inflated. 
Indiana Gov. Otis Bowen moved to have his state declared an agricultural disas­ter area because of the combined impact of the early freeze, summer drought and spring floods. 


the negative side. 
Discussing the Southern Election Fund, Bond defined it as a group that raises money for local can­didates in the eleven "old South" states. Based in Atlanta, the group has aided about 400 capmaigns in the last four years with small donations. They raise the funds from traidtional liberal con­tributors and "from whoever cares to give." 
Concerning the recent revelation of CIA involvement in Chile, Bond said he had "always assumed these things happen as a matter of fact, but now we have the actual proof that it was done. We have the president saying it himself and those responsible for lying about it shoudl be held accountable." He said the idea that "we do it because they do it and we wouldn't if they didn't" is being used lately as a justification for any illegal act. 


Captain Chester M. Lee, U.S.N., Program Director of the Apollo Soyuz Test Project will discuss the American-Russian Joint Space Program tonight at 
8:00 in the Engineering Building Seminar Room 303. His lecture will include movies and slides of the Program_ 
Lee's appearance is sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and the St. Joseph Valley Section. 
As Director of the Test Project Lee has overall responsibility for the direction and management of the United States portion bf the US­USSR joint manned space flight missions. This task includes spacecraft and docking module activities, flight operations and crew operations at the NASA Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston, launch vehicle activities at the NASA Center in Huntsville, Alabama, and launch operations at the JFK Center in Florida. 
Prior to this appointment, Lee was Apollo Mission Director. Lee received a BS degree in Electrical Engineering at the U.S. Naval Academy in 1941. He was awarded the NASA Exceptional Service Medal for both the Apollo 8 and Apollo 11 Missions. 
Admission is free, and the public is cordially invited to attend. 
Frost reports helped move soybean futures sharply higher in the last three days of trading on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn futures prices also clim­bed, but less dramatically. 
Farmers from the Dakotas to Ohio were trying to estimate how severely their 1974 incomes had been crimped by freezing temperatures that whitened late-maturing -grain, beans and 
vegetables summer  on and  the first  last day day  of of  
autumn.  

Agricultural sources general­ly agreed it was much too early to say what impact the cropdamage would have on already rising food prices, but some increases were expected. 
Canning company officials in Minnesota said prices of sweet corn and green beans were likely to rise about 5 per cent because of this growing sea­son's combination of bad weather conditions. 

Directors of the law 
association will meet M~ 
by Matt Yokom Staff Reporter 
The bi-annual meeting of the directors of the Notre Dame Law Association will meet this weekend to discuss Law School policy, recruitment and scholarship funds. 
The deans of the law school will address an estimated 27 directors on the state of the school. Following a discussion, the first session will be concluded with a talk by Professor Howard Glickstein, director of the Center 

· on Civil Rights. The second of the three sessions will include a report of the Law Association's placement com­mittee followed by a business meeting conducted by the Association President Hugh H. Fitzgerald. A directors luncheon will follow with an address by Fr. Edmond P. Joyce, executive Vice-president of Notre Dame. The third session will be com­prised of nports from the Law Associations Policy Committee, Scholarship Committee and a report on student recruiting. According to LawSchool Dean David Link, the alumni that form the 4000 member Law Association play an essential role in four im­portant areas: recruiting good law students; helping graduates find good law positions; fund raising 
A spokesman for the Agricul­ture Department's Economic Research Service said radio and television reports that 20 per cent of the corn and soybean crops might be lost were not realistic. 
"We have not yet been able to get a firm estimate, or even a good guesstimate, of the extent of damage, but we don't think it will be even as high as 10 per cent," he said. 
John W. Kirkbride, director of the estimates division of the USDA Statistical Reporting Service, said "until we get a pretty good reading from the farmers ... I'm in no position to say whether it was a little damage or 20 per cent." 
The next government crop report, due Oct. 10, will be based on a survey which will be made by Oct. 1. 
A National Weather Service agricultural meteorologist, 
which makes up the backbone of the scholarship program; and, finally public relations to spread the word about the excellence of the Notre Dame Law School. 
Link said, "The reason we have one of the best law schools in the country is the working support from alumni. We find that their advice is most helpful in running our law school." 
The Notre Dame Law School Board of Director£ activities were organized by their executive secretary Milli Kristowski and the Notre Dame Student Bar Association. Link pointed out the directors are voluntarily giving of their time to help run this place." 
A social gathering sponsored by the Student Bar Association on Friday night will provide an op­portunity for greater com­munication between practicing lawyers and law students. Link hoped that this would give the directors a chance to discover student feelings and give students a chance to rub elbows with those in practice. 
BETHEL COLLEGE LECTURE SERIES PRESENTS 
BART STARR 

GREEN BAY PACKERS SPEAKING ON SPORTS 
TUESDAY OCTOBER 1 8:00P.M 
$2.00 STUDENTS $3,00 ADULTS 

BETHEL COLLEGE GOODMAN AUDITORIUM 1001 W. McKINLEY;, MISHAWAKA (ACROSS FROMTONN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER) FOR tNFOR#MTION, CALL 259-8511 
~~~iini~ 

100 Center 
CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES 
Largest selection of 
FRYE.BOOTS 
in the area Moo Sat 10 to 9-Sun 12 to 6 
Richard Felch, said there was "definitely some loss." But he said he could not agree with an estimate by the National Corn Growers Association that the overall reduction in the corn crop might reach 4 per cent. Felch said the overall soybean
loss  might  be r oughly  6 per  
cent.  Soybeans  mature  later  
than  corn  and  are  more  

sensitive to frost. 
"The beans are black and the corn is white," one Hoosier farmer reported. 
Soybean futures prices in Chicago rose from 54 to 60 cents a bushel in the first three days of trading this week. Corn prices at Wednesday's close were up 11 to 16 cents over Friday's closing levels. 
1723 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
·------: J 1M-CLASS OF '63 CHUCK-CLASS OF '65 PROPRIETORS 
------·-----­
LOWEST PRICES BEST SELECTION ------·--­
MENTION AD AND DISTILLERY T-SHIRT ____O_N_L r_$2_.2_s___j 
CRUSH PURDUE ------·-----­

Stadium Juniper 
••r •
• EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT ~ LINEBAC~2~0~ LEFT. 
i DISCO~VAILABLE 
l CALL AHEAD FOR KEGS i 272-9800 I



,..·---·····-·-···········--·-···-·-·-.... 

Will there be an off-campus shuttle bus going through the South Bend area and Mich. this Friday? 
We checked into it and so far we have determined that efforts are 
• underway for such a project and there is a good chance that it will be off the ground by Friday. There should be further information about this project in The Observer as it develops, however if it is in progress on Friday there will be a special note on the bottom of my column on Friday. 
How does one go about becoming a CAP? 
First one must be nominated by an instructor or oneself. These nominations are due on Monday, September 30. Once this is done, one will receive application forms that must be filled out and returned by a specific date. Then it is merely a matter of getting an ingerview with the CAP board. Those eligible for the CAP Program as of this time include 1st semester sophomores and juniors returning from abroad. Next semester, second semester freshmen will be eligible to apply for acceptance in the program, around March and April. For those who are unsure of what CAP stands for, it means Committee on Academic Progress and offers the student an opportunity for advancing his or her education in a very open and flexible manner. It should be noted that htis program is limited to Arts and Letters people. 
NOTE: The Ombudsman Service is serving the Notre Dame 
Community Monday through Friday from 9:30 to 5:00 and Monday 
through Thursday nights 9:00 to 12:00. 
Agnew and Ehrlichman sought aid 
Rockefeller testifies in Senate committee 
tions on a broa~ range of cy last October after pleading Rockefeller said he received "My total inclination is to say
By DONALD LAMBRO 
subjects with obvious ease for · "no contest" to tax evasion, two letters from Ehrlichman, I would not invoke executive 
privilege," Rockefeller de­

close to three full days on the called him seeking help "in whose trial on conspiracy and 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Vice stand. connection with a book." obstruction of justice charges clared. "I can think of no cases presidential nominee Nelson A. begins Oct. 1 in Washington. under which. I would, but it
"What he was really asking
Rockefeller disclosed Thursday The committee still must Both letters requested money would be irresponsible for me
for was someone to sponsor or
that both Spiro Agnew and hear from private and public for his legal defense fund, to make a flat commitment."
finance advance payments for a
former White House aide John witnesses and review audit Rockefeller said, and he failed Byrd said he was "disappoin­
book," Rockefeller said. Asked
Ehrlichman sought -but were reports on Rockefeller's tax to answer either. ted" with Rockefeller answer
if he did provide Agnew with
refused -financial help from returns by the Internal Reve­"From a human point of view on executive privilege as well 
any assistance, he replied, "I
him after they were forced to nue Service, but reportedly I'm embarrassed to say. I did as on his refusal Tuesday to
did not."
expects to vote on his confirma­criticize the administration's
leave the government. not answer the letters." he Rockefeller completed his tion by the end of next week or Agnew later signed a contract added. "From a human point agreement to turn over the testimony in the Senate Rules soon thereafter. with Playboy Press for a novel of view, these things are very Watergate tapes and documents 
Committee hearings on his Rockefeller said that Agnew, which has not yet been sad." to former President Richard M. confirmation, answering ques-who 'resigned the vice presiden-published. Rockefeller said he never Nixon. contributed any money to the But he said he had not yet 
Committee to Re-Elect the decided whether to vote against 
President, which became deep­Rockefeller's confirmation. ly involved in the Watergate On wage-price controls, Rock­
scandal. efeller said he thought they



Off-campus ligures given 
He also replied "No" to the "would further exacerbate the question of whether funds problem" of inflation. Controls, "from you or your family were he said, have pushed prices up 
The breakdown of this fall's off­discerning areas prevalent with used to disrupt the 1972 and created short supplies of by: Bill Brink campus residents is a follows: crime, specifically theft and Democratic National Conven­food and other commodities. Senior Night Editor Seniors-827 male, 17 female, muggings. tion?" He would not rule out total 844; Juniors-378 male, 16 He will also continue to work Under questioning on other controls at some future date, 
Figures compiled by the Off­female, total 394; ; Sophomores-88 towards a reasonable plan for the subjects, Rockefeller refused to but said the problem of Campus Housing Office reveal that male, 14 female, total 102; Fresh­food co-op which will get us around rule out the possibility that he inflation now can only be solved 1,388 .Notre Dame undergraduat~s men-37 male, 11 female, total 48. all the leal barriers," said might invoke executive privi­on an international level are living off campus this Last year there were 963 seniors Tallarida, "I want to do something lege at times if he became through a lowering of Arab oil semester. An additional 94 fifth living off-campus which is more practical with students willing to president, and opposed wage prices, increased production of year and graduate students sets than this year, but the totals of 264 volunteer." and price controls even on a food and energy, and tax the total number of off-campus juniors, 73 sophomores and 9 fresh­Tallarida also plans to publish a stand-by basis. incentives to feed needed students at 1,482. men are considerably lower than handbook as a guide to off-campus On the question of privilege, capital into business expansion.
The total 1,388 off-campus un­this year's totals for those classes. living. The book will incluse in­Sen. Robert F. Byrd, D-W.Va., "With Arab oil prices so high dergraduates shows no con­Shilts and Fr. Thomas Tallarida, formation on Indiana housing laws sought a pledge that the and the threat they are goingsiderable increase over last year's present Off-Campus Housing and other significant student­multimillionaire New Yorker higher, it is almost impossible total of 1,369. Fr. James Shilts, Director, indicated that the landlord information. would never invoke executive to look down the road to see last year's director of Off-Campus majority of freshmen and female Along with the handbook, privilege except in cases where this inflation problem is Housing, said the number would off-campus students are residents Tallarida plands to issue a list of concerning military, diplomatic going to end," he said not have changed significatly of South Bend living with their all off-campus housing inspected or national security. pessimistically. unless there had been a large parents. by his office, The list will give chang e in admissions or a Tallarida, whose office prepared reduction in the number of on­the final tallies, said his next order an inspector's evaluatim;t of it. A campus beds because of women of business will be to catergorize ode will be included in th handbook entering Lyons Hall. Shilts said he the off-campus students regionally to help interpret the ratings given thought neither had taken place. in SouthBend, concentrating on by the inspectors. 
M:zrathon starts Friday 
In the MINI-MALL at TOWN & COUNTRY Shopping Center 

Shakespeare fest begins 

DOWN
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

VESTS &SV\ICATERS 
A record-breaking Shakespeare 
10% OFF vtiiTH THS AD 
Marathon will begin at 3 p.m. Friday on the South Quad. Proceeds from the event will be 
ALL TOP BRANm OF SKI 
donated to local charities. The marathon reading, spon­
EQliPNENr N>W IN STOCX 
sored by the Notre Dame Alpha Phi Omega chapter, will last over Ill hours and break the current world record, according to chapter president Chris Keen. 
"Hopefully, everyone in the University community will want to get involved in the marathon," Keen said. "It's our understanding that Purdue holds the current record of 111 hours." 
During the period from Friday 
afternoon until Wednesday, goal is to surpass the current world record of Ill hours. volunteer readers will read the ~*~~***~~~~~~~~~~~**~~~************ entire works of William Shakespeare, including plays, poems, and sonnets. APO member 
a PRESENTING: i 
Joe McQuighan said his fraternity hopes to raise over $1000 in 
: the Thursday night speciali
donations for area charities, in­cluding Sr. Marita Day School. A similar event held two years * * 
ago received over $800 in donations * * 
~ 11' pizza--$1.50 : I Send for your
from visiting alumni, students and area residents. 1 Student I.D.Card
i i
"We prefer to have scheduled Pitcher Beer Nite and enjoyreaders throughout the marathon, 
* Eat, drink, and be entertained by live lt-I special rates at but any student walking around ~ music nightly (except Tuesday) AT : ll Hilton Hotelscampus can join the group and 
and Inns coast
start reading," McQuighan said. I McQuighan noted the Purdue * * to coast. (Grad students 
football weekend should contribute : VVHITE I-lOUSE INN ~: 1 and faculty, too.) Just mail this coupon 1 to the success of the marathon. He to Hilton Hotels Fulfillment Dept.. Suite 200, I added that volunteer reader will be * * I 205 So. Beverly Drive. Beverly Hills. CA 90212.
lt-Now Playing lt 
especially appreciated Saturday * * I I
no· Name
afternoon during the game. * •••••••••••••••• ,. I ----I
--~~--

Alph Phi Omega, a public ser­: :THEATER! cover : Address_____ 
vice frateernity with 135,000 * ................ charge * 
members nationally, has 16 I City ·~-~~---~-State Zip~ __ I members at Notre Dame. : 2 8 3 9 N 5th : 
I College ______Class of 19. _____ I
To schedule guest appearances for the Shakespeare Marathon or ;:: ~ 683-9 O A2• ;:: ~ 
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. ~ find out information about APO, 
students are urged to call Keen at : Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north 011 highway 53, 3 miles. l :xHilTOD HOTELS: 
1783 or McQuighan at 6645. I • • • • • _• • ....• • • • • • • • I
***********************************· 


also part of the Nwtheast Com­munity and that 'tneir choice ofPats on the lifestyles demands recognition and acceptance also, within reasonable bc.:k dept. limits, of course. Students could very possibly be the majority of residents in this area! I must say that it is ."very big" of professor Quigley to state that a "large
Dear Gentlepeople: number of them (students) areI would like to commend the very good community people"; it1974-75 Observer staff on the fine is heartening to know hat one ofjob they are doing of publishing the our educators can see both sides of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's paper. 
an issue.

The Observer, thus far, has given l think that the "freqs" of Notrefair coverage to both the Notre Dame now have a clearer idea ofDame and Sc;tint Mary's campuses, exactly who called the cops on thesomething that was not always underage drinkers, which resulteddone in the past. 
in the extreme sanctions of arrestThe substance of the stories and and permanent blemish on somearticles in the Observer this year students' records. Finally let mehas been more pertinent, I think, 

say that contrary to rumor,

than previously. Where before Professor Arthur Quigley of thewould be found articles about the Engineering Department is notnext pep rally or the last beer trying to be an Off-Campusblast, there are now also stories Macheca!
about thelonelinessof gays and the abortion dilemma. 
Ed Davis I hope the Observer retains the
Dear Editor, quality and staandards with which it has started the 1974-75 academic "We poeserve The Chemical Compostion Of A 
year.
Male 
and p-oteet"

Sincerley,Analysis of the beast male as Jill Kelley
seen through the eyes of the ch­mist. 
Dear Editor, The purpose of this letter is Symbol: Bs 
twofold: first, to relate an in­Accepted Atomic Weight: Varied, 
teresting experience at the main with the highest concentration in 
Dear Editor: gate on the evening of Sept. 19, and lower extremities. 
On September 14th I sent you a second, to share with our fellow 
letter re two South Bend Tribune students a shining example ofPhysical Properties: Frequent carriers on campus and bicycle harrassment of Notre Dameswelling of head with ac­problems they were encountering. students by the Universitycompanying appearance of Thought that you would like to Gestapo--security force ..
strange protusions often referred know that within three days of my We drove up to the main gateto as horns. Sours when continuous Jetter appearing in the Observer, a Thursday night at about 10:00attention is witheld. 
missing bike was returned. 
p.m.to deliver doughnuts to the Mating: Has fond delusions of and flesh are prevailent (in that 
Occurence: Found wherever food 
A special thank you from John various hall food sales. To be aggression and dominance, yet order>. 
and Krista to the N.D. students, for permitted to drive on campus with upon enco_unter with a member of Chemical Properties: Prone to 
their concern and for the many our car, Mr. Pears of the Security
other kindnesses shown these two Office personally authorized at~e oppo~Ite ~e~, tends to freeze, influx of energy during nocturnal youngsters. 
special 3-hour pass, effective each beyond What's your-major-.(i.e. silk). 
fmdmg It difficult to progress hours in response to certain stimuli night of the year, from Sept. 10,Sincerely, 1974 to May 10, 1975. In her haste towhere're-you-from. trses: Still under investigation. 
Mrs. J. R. Kennedy 
serve the student body, Mr. Pears' Doonesbury, by G. Trudeau, 20 numbers and deadly when left to 
Ruling emotion: Horniness (cf Caution: Dangerous in large 
secretary mistyped the second September). its own devices. 
date--it read "May 10, 1974". Appearance: Jeans and T-shirts 
Because of this typographicalNamt' withheld by requestfor all occasions; higtops for 

error Sgt. Fuhr... of our Beloved formal wear. 
Guardians refused to let us on Reason for existence: As yet 
campus to make our deliveries. undetermint>d. 
Frequenting the We have used this same pass to be Warning: Will try anything upon 
Dear Editor: permitted on campus 5 nights each I feel sorry for you. Maybe bars week since the school year began. 
intoxication! 
someday you will meet a woman The security guard who normallythat can be classified as a humanSincerely <well, almost), has duty at this hour, and whobeing; for surely the only women knows us to be Student UnionEileen you have obviously come in con­delivery men, stood dubly by andMarie tact with can be classified as Dear Sir:Suzy watched the entire scene, perhapscreatures. 
Although I have avoided ex­not without some enjoyment.
pressing opinion in the campusSincerely, Because of this SIMPLEmedia, since such action mightAnne Marie Ashe TYPOGRAPHICAL ERROR, ourtend to perpetuate the fraud that SIMPLEMINDED sergeant friend 




What is woman? 
Editor's Note: The original letter on this subject, written by three females, seems to have become a small battleground for one more skirmish in the ongoing battle of the sexes. Keep those cards and letters coming in! 
Dear Editor: 
The article entitled "And Such is Woman" printed in Tuesday's Observer demands equal time for a retaliation by the oppositite sex. This is an analysis of the male creature as seen through the an­thropologist's eyes. 
Although the creature belongs to the species of Homo Sapiens <abbreviated SAP), this is a commentary on a subgroup of SAP known as Homo Domers (em­phasis on subgroup, i.e. beneath, lower than.) 
Ancestral heritage: Primates. Note: A scrutiny of primates availabe for study in this en­vironment will show that the level of progress has been markedly slow since the first of them left the trees; as a matter of fact, many are still "up in the air." 
llab.its: Reversions to animalistic habits are com­monplace. Upon agitation, for example, he is likely to engage in battle with his fellow primates, using the materials closest to hand--i.e. food, which is rarely far from reach. 
l<'avored habitats include, most noticeably, bed; at, near, or in large sources of food; and designated rectangular fields, due to abnormal affinity for odd­shaped pigskin objects. 
NO--truly universal? 
Dear Editor, 
By way of my Social Psychology class I have discovered some very disturbing facts about the sociological makeup of this university. It seems that a survey conducted last spring revealed that of 1255 students participating, less th~:-: lpercent revealed ~h~;>mselves to be of lower social class background, 2 percent were of Working class origms, "6 percent were from the lower middle class, 46 percent were from the middle class, 42 percent from the upper middle class backgrounds, and 4 percent were from the economic 
DOONESBURY 
HOi-P ~ TKJf£15 UP, 
Pi-EASEl t.IB&RAL5 TO 
Til§-/.EFT; CONSEKYATIV£5 7D 7H& RI6HT; H(){)£;RAT!i5 .-51l?AI6HT AH£AD! 
pinnacle of society. Well, so what, you say. When I consider that those elements of society which make up 65 percent of white America find only a 20 percent representation on this campus, Imust seriously question this institution's use of the word "university" before its name. Further, I think it pretty sad that the greatest number here on campus come only ffl(>m the middle, upper middle, and upper classes. These 3 groups compose 92 percent of Notre Dame students, while the lower 3 groups (upwards of 65 percent of the American people) are represented by a whopping 8 percent. When lconsider the working class alone, that backbone of the industrial unions, that class that makes this country what it is commercially, and that which is America's largest at 41 percent of  the total society, I am nauseated by the fact that only 2 percent of Notre Dame students are sons or daughters of workers. What was it that that p1 ofessor at a major Catholic university in Chicago was trying to convey to me by his reply of "Oh" in a cynical and sarcastic tone to the fact that I went to Notre Dame? Only this community has the answer. Sincerely, Tom Sheridan  Notre Dame is actually a "university", the comments of Professor Quigley in Tuesday's Observer have compelled me to take exception to my rule. It is, indeed, distressing that the president of the Northeast Neigh­borhood Council, Notre Dame's own professor Arthur Quigley of the <nationally rated!) Enginering Department, has accused some of us <youthful) Domers of using obscenities, making excessive noise and littering lawns on our way to "frequent" local bars. As one of the "frequenters" (a freq '?), let me reply that such incidents of "unneighborly" behavior are highly exagerated by the professor. Arthur Quigley should recognize the inevitability of some friction when the youthful relax socially in areas also occupied by more senior citizens. Professor Quigley should further understand that 5000 Notre Dame students are  deliberately and without cause, kept us stopped at the gate, making us late for our delivery at Dillon Hall food sales by 20 minutes. Our pass was con­fiscated, we were compelled to drive to the east gate, and were only allowed to drive on campus after Sgt. Fuhr ... drove over to the east gate with our pass in his hands and a smirk on his face--"No hard feelings, eh boys'?"-Sure!! Who or what is our, I repeat, OUR, security force supposed to protect? Is it the students or their own precious images as strong arm men? What ever happened to those students in Pangborn and Dillon who were tied up and robbed last year? How effective were our Benevolent Protectors then? Get your values straight, J. Arthur and Co.! Bill Whlig Bill Thode  
by Garry Trudeau  the observer  

CUf ffPfRAt -,-r:.~,·v•n•Jf
1/P TH&R£­
1/H-HlH.. 
HATT£1?QC 
5/iCTICW 12/ 

curffPfRAt -.rr./VJrJ//V/7' 
UIH£Re? see?..ld/TH
rAcr,~s 
AUTH&
/../!(& H&5 
j_l, .. \((

\ /QJ{,(//J/&5/
Al.I?EAOY 1/P 
\
7}{&1?£/ 
Night Editor: Mike Strickroth Ass't Night Editor: Tom Thanas Layout: Joe Kanabrockl. Karl Welnfurtner, "Grizz" Seiierberg, Val Zurbiis, Martha Fanning Copy Reader: Jeanne Murphy and Jim Eder Day Editor: Greg Bangs Editorials: Ken Girouard Features: J. R. Baker Sports: Greg Corgan .Pete McHugh Typists: Mary Tobin, Barb Haug, Tom Modglin, Jim Landis, Tim Murphy Compugraphic Operator: Bob Stin­metz Picture Screener: Albert D'Antonio Night Controller: Bill Brink 

-·---~---------~---~--------­
the observer 
7 
Dill Ill R na 



still unofficial 
an interview with julian bond 
by andy peavler 
in circulation, rise in prices. As for the some kind of mysterious manipulation of black population, their main concern is everyone's mind that would elminate " ... the economy-the same as it is for everyone else." 
Civil rights remain an important issue for the young congressman. Despite the fact that many rights have been won for the blacks, the problem now is maintaining the rights. "the right to eat at a lunch counter-­that's guaranteed. The fight now is in maintaining it and its enforcement." 
Quite outspoken in his opinion of the current Congress, Bond explained that starting with the Kennedy administration and following through with Johnson, reaching new heights with Nixon, Congress had stopped being a co-partner in the triad of government and instead had become "in the hands of an aggressive president, an impotent group of old men unable to make decisions for themselves-unable to im­plement what few decisions they did make." 
It almost goes without saying that the college student population could be treme~dously important in a presidential campaign. However, this politician pointed out that today the student wouldn't affect anyone's campaign. "This is, of course an over-generalization, but the students no~ are. impotent. themselves--not voting, not ~anng who w~ns or loses, not having any 

~~-~t•l~--~~~-=•n•ms•~~•mt•I:UIZfltlf»_,~IU~ ~nvolvement m the world outside of the 
Ivory towers that surround the campus." . . He added that a little of this has to do with
Late yesterday afternoon while many He went on to admit as much loyalty to the the economy--with the pressur t h" 
guests and visitors at Notre Dame milled in Democratic party as it had to him. "I think . . . . e 0 ac teve the lobby of the Morris Inn, a handsome I'm very fortunate to be in Georgia because m s~hool which IS different than that of five young man strolled through the entrance. unlike New York, being Democrat a does ~r SIX years ago. "Some of it has to do with Flawlessly dressed in a blue blazer and gray not mean making an ideological com-hghter dr';Igs which lead to an introspection­slacks, he walked toward us apparently mittment to anything. It just means that -t~e studymg of your own navel--seeing if its unrecognized by the small crowd for no one you are in the majority party." still there." turned a head as he passed. Technically this . 
scene could have been played at Morris Inn Leanmg forward on a blac~ leather couch, thousands of times yet the fact that this ~e talked .earnes~y of his C?ncerns: Bond cited the major difference between young man was Julian Bond, the 34-year old ···~ore aid to higher e~ucation, more Angela Davis, another young black leader black legislator from Georgia, made the a~sis~ance to lower education, the recon-who last Friday spoke to 2000 people at scene a unique one sbtubon of the poverty programs of the Stepan Center, and himself. "She believes 
· Kennedy-Johnson era, a new kind of foreign almost solely, if I understand her policy for Africa, the cutting of the defense correctly, in mass action as a means of 
Visiting the campus to give a lecture last budget and reallocation of these monies into moving the country from point A to pointnight, Bond agreed to an interview with a B. ..l believe mass action has its place but few N?tre Dame students. After in-domestic concerns." Bond affirmed his political action at the ballot box as opposed ~roduchons had been made we. settled down belief in government spending to "get things to in the streets is a method almost untried m a sm~ll room .off the ~am !obby .and rolling again ..but what Nixon-Ford has done by the poor--they will get from it direct lunge~ mto ~n mformahve ..~Iscussion;: is to slow that process down with inevitable proportion of what they put into it-they will covermg topics from an Impotent results"-rise in unemployment less money reap the rewards from it." 
Congress to politically apathetic college ' students, from President Ford to AngelaDavis. • KilN; I~ Ull I &SJI I I II Y!~-a.l 
A man of definite opinions, the legislator pointed out the"power of political action at 
Twisting one of the two rings he wears on the ballot box" with George Busbee's each hand, Bond opened the session by recent victory over Lester Maddox in the commenting on his recent "unofficial" Georgia Democratic gubernatorial disclosure of his intentions to run for the nomination. "Maddox will no longer be a 1976 Democratic presidential nomination. political force in Georgia or anywhere else. "I don't know how great my expectations He'll be around but he won't get anywhere. ought to be that I might be the Democratic He has essentially a clown act, and I don't nominee; I don't think I could run for think anyone's interested in a clown act President only on the expectation that I anymore." would influence the others--when you make an attempt, you have to be serious. This is all, at this point, purely speculative. I Finally, he characterized President Ford haven't made a formal announcement-­as a parochial man from Michiganprobably won't until March or April of '75. representing the small town populous -the 
middle-America. "Frankly," Bond con­tinued, "he pleasantly surprised me in his On Senator Ted Kennedy's recent an­first few weeks in office-until the pardon for 
Nixon came along ... almost inexcusable, prejudice based on race and sex. Race, sex
nouncement of his non-candidacy in­religion, national origin, I would eras~
tentions, Bond felt that his disclosure helps incredible to me that he would have done these. I think it's alright to be prejudiced
all candidates on the political spectrum. it." Since then Bond has reverted to his against someone because you just don't like"Senator Kennedy was probably the only original feelings about the new Preisdent-­him ... that's very human--I wouldn'tperson who could have had the nomination­that he is essentially an "honest Nixon'' eliminate that prejudice. The second thing Iif not the election for the asking. Now would do would be to make sure everyone ineveryone has a shot-it's a wide open In a lighter vein, when asked what he the country had whatever he wanted without game." 
would do if granted three wishes for the having to infringe on anyone else's right to 
good of America, Bond gazed at the ceiling privacy and to happiness--and if I had all and appeared momentarily perplexed. this, I wouldn't want a third wish." And "Could my first wish be for a thousand with two wishes like that, who, indeed, wishe.>? No? Well, I suppose I would buy would ask for a third? 
<Photos by John Dlugolecki) 
-~~-~~-~~-JII&IJI-U II I &1111&1~1~& & 



, • 1 i, • >'') ',

Attendcinee renuirl; low 



Integration crisis goes on in Boston schools 


UY DAVID M. HOSEN 
BOSTON !UPI) The atmosphere remained tense Wednesday at racially troubled Hyde Park High School and no classes were taught, but a strong presence of uniformed police inside and outside the building prevented vi15lence 
from  erupting.  
Before second  school full  opened, week  of  on the court­ 

ordered integration of city public schools, police confiscat­
•
Juggler expands distribution SIZe 
by Gregg Bangs 
Starr Heporter 
The 1974-75 Juggler expands this year with a sizeable increase in distribution as compared to last year. 
"We want to expand to a broader format and make the Juggler more visible," said Juggler editor Joe O'Brien. "Therefore we'll go with distributing 4,000 free copies this year, instead of selling 500 copies for fifty cents each like last year." 
O'Brien, a senior English major from Troy, New York, said that this will be the first year that the 
Soc and anthro department 
New committee formed 
The Department of Sociologyand Anthropology has announced the formation of a Sociology and Anthropology Undergraduate Planning Committee, as a result of a meeting held last Monday night, Sept. 16. 
The committee consists of Department Chairman Dr. Leo Despres, seven faculty members, and two student representatives­one majoring in sociology and one in anthropology. 
Student representative Robb Caponigri, the sociology mojor, said "Our job is to act as a liaison between faculty members on the committee and the students in our departments. We want to get the students' opinions on how things are being run." 
One purpose of the committee is to review the possibilities of sociology and anthropology as undergraduate majors. "We're looking into the possibility of branching out by dropping some of the elementary level courses and offering more courses on the ac­vanced levels," said Caponigri. "We're also considering revision of the basic degree requirements." 
ed a homemade two-foot long spear with a knife taped to the end from one youth. A fishing knife and a bottle of rum was taken from another youth. 
Attendance at the school, closed last Friday due to serious racial fights and school bus stonings, was 853 out of 1,800 assigned at the start of classes and that dropped hours later when about 100 white stuents left the building and went home. Classrooms were 
Juggler will be distributed free of charge. 
Juggler is the university's journal of the arts. It accepts works in peotry, prose, photography, art, design, musical compostitions and other works related to the arts. 
Anybo.dy affiliated with the University can submit material to the Juggler. "We would like to have a broad spectrum of people contributing to the Juggler"', commented O'Brien. "We promise that we will read everything submitted; we won't 
Another goal of the committee is to re-evaluate the role of sociology and anthropology in the Notre Dame community and their relationships with other academic disciplines. Caponigri stated that "there are great opportunities for co-operative educational programs between the sociology and anthropology departments and other departments in the University." One such example would be a combination program 
involvingmedicine.  anthropology  and  
Caponigri admitted although the demand  that for  

sociologists is not very great, sociology itself provides an ex­cellent backbround for careers in business, government, and law. He also added that the committee may in the future act as a placement service for department graduates. 
Sociology majors having any questions, comments or com­plaints should call Caponigri at 1592. Anthropology majors should contact their representative, Karla Grazier, at 6883. 
All sociology and anthropology

...........
~ 
necessarily print it, but we definitely will read it," he stated. 
The Juggler is published once a semester. The deadline for this fall's November fifth distribution date is October fifteenth. O'Brien emphasized that the articles should be turned in by this date because "it takes us three weeks to read over and. lay· outithe,material we I receive." 
All prospective material can be submitted to the Juggler office, located on the third floor of the Lafortune center in the scholastic empty throughout tne aay ana there was no instruction. 
Buses carrying black students to the school arrived late causing unrest among whites who gathered in front of the building. When the blacks arrived they met separately in the auditorium,' officials said. 
Following the meetings many of the white students went home despite a personal plea 
majors will be rece1vmg further information by mail. 
Fox meets with marketing club 
The Notre Dame Marketing Club will jost Mr. Frank Fox this af­ternoon as he discusses "How to Interview For The Marketing Job." Fox is head of the Marketing Personnel Department at Eli Lilly and Company of Indianapolis, a leading pharmaceutical products. 
A graduate of Notre Dame in 1942, Fox was a former college recruiter and Indiana Region Chairman of the Midwest College Placement Association. 
Topics covered in the hiring process,what the interviewer is looking for in the marketing student, and how to approach the question of starting salary. 
Anyone interested is invited to attend the lecture which will begin at 4:00 p.m. in Room 124 Hayes­trom Police Commissioner Rob­ert diGrazia that they stay. His efforts were stymied by Head­master John Best, who told students they could go home if they wanted to, and a number of teachers who urged them to do so. 

As a result of the meeting separate committees of 10 blacks and 10 whites were set up to "negotiate" a resolution to the racial problems at the school. 
office, the English office, the Architecture Department and the Art Department. 
O'Brien expects the November issue to fall between seventy and eighty pages. "Excluding photographs, I'd like to have about fifty to sixty pages," he added. 
O'Brien also expressed pleasure over the current affairs of his staff. 
"I was pleasantly surprised on activity night when a lot of people wanted to join our staff. Right now, I have about fifteen people who help me read over the material, give their op_inion on it and help work on layout," he commented. 
When questioned on how he thought the quality of this year's Juggler might turn out, he replied, "Like any editor, I'd like to see the quality of the magazine go up." O'Brien continued, "Last year, I thought the quality took a dive, but that was due to a certain clique contributing everything and choking off any fresh input of poetry or fiction." 
"However,'' he concluded, "1 think the Juggler is one of the best literary magazines in the countr on a colle iate level." 

Earn $100 a month and a Marine Corps commission through the Platoon Leaders Class. 
Buses taking blacks home left without incident and as they pulled out one black policeman said, "Did you ever see a stick of dynamite that was about to go off. That's what it was like in there today." 
In South Boston, where demonstrations and bus ston­ings have occurred on previous days, a white classroom boycott continued to soften somewhat. Attendance at South Boston High School increased slightly Wednesday to 22 per cent of the 1,521 assigned, compared to 20 per cent on Tuesday. 
School Department figures showed that 338 students-154 white, 172 black and 12 others­went to the high school Wednesday. The white total showed an increase of 20 whites over Tuesday. 
A sympathy school boycott continued in Charlestown, a predominantly white section of the city which is not affected by the busing program, but is expected to become involved in 
the  near  future.  
Officials  said  465  of  1,180  
students  went  to  class  at  

Charlestown High School for an attendance rate of 39.4 per cent. Attendance Tuesday was 16 per cent. 
The sympathy boycott ended in West Roxbury, another white community not yet affected by desegregation, as 2,202 out of 2,530 students assigned to 8 schools showed up for classes. Tuesday's attendance rate was 31 per cent. 

Eligible college men can earn $1 00 a month each month of the regular school year. It's like a $900 annual scholarship. 
The PLC also offers a 
few good men the 
chance to learn to fly 
free. The Corps pays 
the entire cost of civilian flight instruction 
... worth about $800. 
All PLC leadership training takes place during the summer when it can't interfere with your college career Upon graduation PLC members are commissioned Second Lieutenants. 
The Mr. 'nes Today Through Friday Noon are looka. ·for and Evening Meals North and a few gooo .nen. South Dining Halls 




Ilawing salaries at San Clemente 
Nixon help remains on government payroll 
By MIKE FEINSILBER 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Gov­ernment officials testified Wednesday that 22 federal employees drawing annual salar­ies of over $42,000 are working for former President Richard 
M. Nixon at San Clemente 
Calif. ' 
The figure came to light in a Senate appropriations subcom­mitee hearing into President Ford's request for $850,000 to support Nixon's post-presiden­tial activities through next June 30. 
The 22 employees assigned to Nixon but still on the federal payroll range from Ronald L. Ziegler, press secretary, draw­ing $42,500 a year plus up to $40 a day in living expenses, to butler Manolo Sanchez, paid $12,000 and his wife, Fina, a maid, paid $8,000. 
Montoya said he knew of no instance in history when a private U.S. citizen employed a 
Blessed with pennies from heaven 



ND avoids penny 
by Catherine Brown Starr Reporter 
The penny shortage that has pinched other parts of the country has apparently largely by-passed the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. 
A survey of some campus offices and businesses revealed that, although some experienced minor problems with their penny supply over the summer, none have had or expect to have any majorproblems. 
The Cashier's Office had problems all summer getting and keeping pennies, but there has been "less demand since August", notes Cashier Timothy E. Howard. Howard feels that the summer pinch was largely due to the "many outsiders on campus, who aren't exempt from the 4 per cent sale tax, as students are." 
Howard aaaed that the bank has told him that "things are much better," and there is now no limit on the number of pennies he can get. The cashier said he has no intention of asking for larger amounts of pennies, "because we have a good relationship with the bank, and I don't want to put any unnecessary burden on them." 
Meanwhile, the Hammes Bookstore on campus has also been affected by the shortage. "We had a problem a few weeks ago," said a bookstore bookkeeper, who preferred not to be identified. "The bank put us on a budget, so that we could only get a certain butler and a maid at govern­ment expense. 
Roy M. Ash, Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Arthur F. Sampson, administrater of the General Services Administration, and Lilburn E. Boggs, deputy Secret Service director, flanked by 10 aides, sought to justifythe $850,000 request. 
The House appropriations committee has voted to provideonly $398,000. 
staff former President Nixon" 1...tage Hatfield and Sen. Joseph M 
~ Montoy.a, D-N.M., expressed
Sha 
number of pennies," she said. The budget lasted a "few weeks" and the bookstore "never really had any problem," although their SUJ?ply of pennie_s was limited. 
A spokesman tor tne ~:it. Mary's College Business Office, which provides the SMC bookstore with its pennies, said that there had been no shortage and no unusual demand for pennies, and added that they had not had their supply limited by the bank. 
Huddle-Manager Tom l.irogan reports that the Huddle is "in fine shape" penny-wise. "Over the summer they set aside 5 to 10 dollars per week, anticipating a 
penny shortage." explains Grogan. 
penniesthem." 
International cooperation requested 
Ford repeats oil warning 
By RICHARD E. LERNER 
WASHINGTON (UPI) President Ford warned Wednes­day that high oil prices and other inflation problems threat­en the stability of the world's economy and called for the third time in a week for prompt international cooperation. 
Ford made his latest remarks during a red carpet welcome for Italian President Giovanni Leone to the White House for talks on inflation. 
He also arranged a late afternoon meeting with Adam Malik, foreign minister of oil­rich Indonesia. 
Presidential Press Secretary Ron Nessen said Ford and the Indonesian leader arranged to get together to discuss relations between their countries, "the situation in Southeast Asia and other matters of mutual con­cern.". 
"We must all admit that the road will not be easy," the President told Leone and a crowd of hundreds assembled on the South Lawn of the White House after welcoming ceremo­nies. 
"The problems of inflation and of assuring equitable access to fairly priced resour­ces, for example, threaten the stability of every economy and the welfare of people in developed as well as developingcountries." 
Ford's statements on inflation were a followup to his tough speech at a world energy conference Monday in Detroit and an address last Wednesday to the U.N. General Assembly. 
Ford's meetings with Leone and Malik followed a similar session Tuesday with British Foreign Minister James Callag­han and two days of talks late last week with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko as well as a lengthy meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Ka­
kE!ui Tan'aka: · · · · · · · · · · 
Secretary of State Henry A. that will draw hundreds of Kissinger and Treasury Secre­leaders of business, labor, and 
tary William E. Simon plan to other groups together in an hold further discussions on attempt to find solutions to the 
inflation and oil this weekend at continuing inflation. Camp David, the Presidential r«:treat in Maryland, with diplomatic and financial lead­ers of Britian, France, West Germany and Japan. 
In addition to 22 employees assigned to Nixon, the GSA employs eight maintenance workers at San Clemente and four at Key Biscayne, Fla.• where the government leases two buildings adjoining Nixon's Florida home. 
The salaries of employeesassigned to Nixon and of the maintenance workers are not included in the $850,000 request. 
Neither Sampson nor Ash could provide an overall figure when Sen. Mark 0. Hatfield, R­Ore., asked to be told "what the U.S. government is spend­ing to service and maintain and 
frustratiOn at their inability to dig out a total. 
The Management Club will sponsor its first club activity of the year this Friday. According to Club president Steve Reiff, a free picnic for all members will begin 
at "high noon" west of the Hayes-Healy · 
Hot dogs, lemonade, potato chips and other refresments will be served. 
"I feel we're being given a 
bureaucratic fast shuffle " Hat­
field said. ' 
He said he could not understand why four mainte­nance men, paid $53,566 on an annual basis, were necessary to care for 7,480 square feet of space at Key Biscayne or why it was taking so long to close up shop there. 
"We're working with the Secret Service to come up with 
a . plan ,t,o phase out KeyBiscayne, Sampson said. 
Sampson compared it to closing down a military base. He said costly, sophisticated Secret Service and communica­tions equipment was guarded at Key Biscayne, and the govern­ment had to decide what to sell ship away or abandon. ' 

Mcmagement Club picnic scheduled for this Friday 

"Now people are turning in r-------------------------....
faster than I can use 
~e-.y members can sign-up at this time. A $2.00 fee is required which is used for smokers and guest lectures. 
Other club activities include a joint smoker which will be located in Michigan with the Finance and Marketing Clubs. Guest speakers 
from U S Steel the SBA and the
· · ' 
AFL CIO are sch d I d t h Id
-e u e o o 
programs on various topics. 

ST. LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW ASSOCIATE DEAN PETER SALSIQ-1 (AB. ND-'59) 
I WILL BE ON CAMPUS FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 FROM 9:00 A.M. -4:00 P.M. TO TALK WITH STUDENTS ABOUT LAW SCHOOL, THE LEGAL PROFESSION, AND SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW. OF PARTICULAR INTEREST TO 
!

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS IS SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW'S NEW JOINT J.D.­
M.B.A. PROGRAM, THE J.D. -M.A. IN URBAN 
AFFAIRS PROGRAM, AND EXPANDING CLINICAL PROGRAMS. 

t
, 
•
•~ 
! 
t 
Thursday, September 26, 1974

10 the observer 

through centuries, themes and media 
a collection of french art 
by janet woltmon 

Now showing in the West Gallery of the Notre Dame Art Gallery is an exhibit of French Art from the University's Permanent Collection. This is an exhibition that is sure to please almost everybody with its wide range of styles, media, and subject matter. 
Nearly half of the works have been acquired by the Gallery in the last ten years. And some of them have not been shown before. The Gallery staff has worked hard to build up the collection so they could mount a comprehensive exhibit of high quality works like these. (Similar projects are un­derway to build up the collections of German, British, and Italian art.) 
Meanwhile, the scope and variety of the French exhibit was a challenge to present in a coherent way. The theme chosen by the gallery staff was subject, and thus there are works grouped by portraits, landscapes, genre, and religious themes. But within each group are oils, watercolors, sculptures, etchings, drawings, and lithographs dating from the 14th to the 20th centuries. 
The selection of portraits includes many of Notre Dame's finest-and most often displayed-paintings, a group of 18th century portraits by Louis Tocque, Jean-Marc Nattier, and Jean-Baptiste Oudry, whose Portrait of Pouan and his Dog is one of the most important works in the collection. The two charming portraits by Nattier, of the Marquise de Croissy and of a Lady of the French Court are displayed flanking a terra-cotta Bust of a Woman by Nattier's contemporary Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne. The grouping of the three works gives the viewer an idea of the Frenchman's concept of the ideal beauty rather than the personalities of the three in­dividual ladies. 
Nattier's son-in-law Louis Tocque painted the partner to the Marquise de Crolssy, the Marquis, in 1749. These two often worked as a team this way since Nattier had a reputation for making the ladies more beautiful and Tocque had a fine hand for men's portraits. All the fashionable couples of the day commiss10ned matching portraits from these two. 
Around the corner from these is the area devoted to land­scape. Here are bold and expressive oils by Maurice Vlaminck, a small Landscape with Rocks by Gustave Courbet, and an etching by Felix Bracquemand, Aile Dans Le Pare St. Cloud en Hlver. From any position before this .etching, Bracquemand's invitation to stroll down the lane of 
trees in St. Cloud Park still readhes out. 
Turn another corner and leave the great outdoors for 19th 
century Paris, as depicted in a group of etchings and 
drawings, highlighted by Felix Buhot's Place Pigalle en 1878. 
One of the Gallery's latest acquisitions, this rare etching is a 
melange of images of the square, its denizons, and Paris 
itself. It is remarkable not only as a splendid etching, but is 
also signed and includes on the lower border a tiny portrait of 

"Homme au Nez Casse" by Auguste Rodin Bronze, lilt'~" high <Photo by John K. Anderson, Jr.> 
HELD OVER
* * * * * * 
Friday at 7:45, 9:45 fYil 
I t!!JSat. & Sun. 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 Mon-Thurs. 7:45, 9:45 
241 Dixieway North 1 mi. north of ND 
guitar 1 repair and headquarters~ instruction 
\Everything for the guitaris 

7JL'RZINGS:IIDDLBS 
from the people who gave you "The Jazz Singer" 
STARTS TOMORROW SlONE\' POmER • BILL COSO\' 
As Geechie Dan 
UPTOWN SATURDAY 
NIGHT~ 
Fri.&Mon.-Thurs. 7:15,9:15
Sat&Sun1: 15,3: 15,5:15,7:15 

IJ()ile.-t-i()U~e r=lix 
Twm Jnearres-1uu unrer c:ompJex-MishiJwaka Phone 255-91575 -Adults $2.00, Child .75­
.,.,. ••. 1-1111•••··-•••"'"'••••••·~·.... ·... 
the artist. 

Down the west wall of the Gallery are several groupings of works with different subjects. There are two Bathers by Cezanne. Both lithographs, one is colored with yellow, blue, and grey, and the other, smaller one is black-and-white. The groups of nudes in each are different, but the figure on the right in both is in almost the same pose, tying the two works together. 
The works on this wall are genre art, that is they deal with many subjects and depict people from all walks of French life, from Jacques Callot's Two Beggars to Pierre Bannard's La Revue Blanche. There are a watercolor, an oil, and a drawing that share a military theme. There is an Arab by Decamp, a Sherpherdess by Millet, a periodical cartoon by Daumier, and a Dancer by Mattisse. 
Then there are two 18th century drawings now thought to belong to one Jean Daulle, although they were long attributed to Francois Boucher, whose Offering of a Rose, one of the Gallery's most important paintings, is currently hanging in the Masterpiece Gallery. The Love Allegory with Egg Basket and Love Allegory with a Bird Cage are in the popular mode of their day, with charming young rustics engaged in "innocent" games which symbolize much more. 
In the small group of religious paintings there are more authentic Bouchers--three etching of Putti or Cherubs cavorting in the clouds. Displayed next to a series of tiny H~ by 2% inch etchings of the Life of the Holy Virgin is one of the largest canvased in the exhibit, a Resurrection of Christ by Antoine Coypel. This arrangement offers an interesting contrast in style, execution, and detail and color work. 
If none of these two dimensional media 

interest you, perhaps the sculpture which rounds out the exhibit will. The oldest ob­ject in the exhibit is a wooden Madonna from the Isle de France. Thirty-eight inches high, it still retains much of its original 14th century polychrome. 

A late addition to the show is a Burgun­dian Madonna and Child made of stone. In almost original condition, except for the loss of most of its polychrome, it is eighteen inches high. It was made about 1430 and 
has beautiful lines in the flow of the Mother's gown and hair as she nurses her natural looking Child. 
From the 19th Century there are several small bronzes, including Antoine-Louis Barye's Walking Lion and Lioness and Auguste Rodin's small model of Jacques de Wisant from his famous large group The Burghers of Calais which is in the Rodin Museum in Paris, and his Homme Au Nez Casse (Man with a Broken Nose), which is the Galler's very latest acquisition. This life-size bronze portrait may be Rodin's homage to Michelangelo. 
Besides all these, the exhibit contains many other goodies from France that now belong to Notre Dame. Be sure to take a look and a little education before the show closes on Sunday, October 13 to make way for an exhibit of 20th Century Art which opens October 20. 
52980 U.S.31 North 272-5220 
presents 
frig~t~a.

overland Stage ao. 
everything from down-home luegrass to contemporary rock 
BEGINNING OCTOBERS-3 SHOWS NIGHTLY FROM 9:00-2:00 SUNDAY FROM 8:30-12:00 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
I I I 
I I I·.' 


~~,~t.'l't •-"!':.. .,. tJ~, J' +-....~.t~t' 

·-·--· ~------· 
ND history department sponsors lecture series 
by Bob Mader Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame Department of History will sponsor a lecture series entitled "The Rein­terpretationof American Catholic History'' October 4-5 at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The purpose of the lecture series 
is to examine the American 
Catholic "man in the pew" ac­
cording to Prof. Jay Dolan of the 
Notre Dame History Department. 
Previous studies of American 
Catholic History have been con­
cerned with the Church hierarchy, 
or, in other words, biographies of 
bishops,andhistories of dioceses and 
Church organizations, stated­
Dolan. 
The series featuring historian from 18 Catholic, private and public universities will begin with the topic "Catholic and the Left", concentrating on the Catholic worker , peace, and social justice. The section "Catholics and New Ethnic Studies" will be concerned with Irish, Italian, and Lithuanian Catholic communities. "New Approaches in American Catholic History,' is devoted to a discussion of the methodology of studying the Catholic community. ' 
The lectures on Saturday, Oc­tober 5, will cover Church Hierarchy and American Catholic theology. The lecture series will be concluded Saturday afternoon with an informal discussion of the topiccovered in the series. 
"Notre Dame has long been identified with studies of 'American Catholicism,'' Professor Dolan said. "This lecture series is meant to strengthen this identity."
Dolan stressed that this is the first lecture series concerned with purely American Catholic History emphasizing the common man. "We are trying to fill a gap," he continued. "A pretty good area has been covered concerning the Church hierarchy. We are trying to fill in the other half of the square, so-to speak." 
Dolan explained that recent studies of the Catholic community have found that Catholics are very much in tune with revivalism, that contrary to popular belief Irish Catholic families do not have a greater number of children than other families, and that the American Catholic community has modeled itself aa great deal after its European counterpart, among other things. 
Dolan pointed out that Robert D. Cross, former president of Hunter College of New York and Swar­thmore College in Pennsylvania, currently Dean of the History Department at the University of Virginia will act as chairman­commentator of the series Friday evening. Dr. Cross is a noted historian of Catholicism. 
Admittance to the lecture series is free and students are welcome. Anyone wishing further in­formation should call the History Department or Professor Dolan. 

DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. '7-i Gen'I Features Corp_ 
ACROSS 50 Scissor sound 11 Member of the 1 Egyptian sun 51 Childish family 
god: Var. 54 Physicians' gp. 12 Curved molding5 Heavenly sight 57 Namesakes of a 13 Claret and 9 Work Spenser lady cherry
14 String of penrls 59 Rugged crests 19 Pindar was one 1 !'; r., ... :-::::u~ 60 Circumspection 21 Important16 Old saw 63 Disputed trainee 17 Reclining one 6-4 Otherwise named 25 Entrechat 18 Pepys' sign-off: 65 Big laugh 27 Spreads hay
Phrase 66 Caen's river 29 More contorbd 20 Wilde character 67 Winner at 30 Storehouse 22 African title Gettysburg 31 Night in Nar,tn;:: 23 Certainly 68 Biblical 32 Kegs:' Abbr. 24 Rich fabrics of patriarch 33 Cheers 
the ,Middle Ages 69 Certain breads 36 Kept a tryst26 Fluff 38 Ft. or yd.28 Type of "oater" DOWN 40 Travel bag32 Cold weather 1 Silk city of 43 Rouen's river 
sound effect France 45 Large lizards 34 Folksinger Rich­2 Miss Shearer 48 Part of a calla ard,---Bennet 3 One way to do lily35 Ancient Christ-business 49 Slight quake
ian hymn 4 Sea nymph f.2 Sierra ­37 Delibes opera 5 " . • . dignified 53 Kefauver 39 Tom's theft and -" 54 First man 41 Easy-6 Silver-white 55 Eight f-qrlongs42 Lusters element 56 Korea, iJ'apan,44 Actor Portman 7 Totals . et al. 46 Famous name in S Draw back 58 Chines,e city
baseball 9 Language in-61 Not a gentleman47 Certain local structor of a kind 62 Surprisedprerogatives 10 "Much-..." exclamation 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
PERSONALS 

Attention: All Mgt. Club members -free picnic Fri noon west of Hurley Bldg.-membership sign­ups also $2-yr. 
Ditta, Still very much in love. Guess Who 
Studley-Look at this: We knows ya, didn, do it, Mast,r BETA. HAPPY Birthday. Ah-Ah-Ah­Ah-AAAH, The WILD BUNCH 
To the Roman Pontiff: We are not pleased with your atomic threats. 
Remember  ancient Cart hage  &  
think  on  Moreav.  The  Anti  
Christal coalition  

Lucy, You can play with my piano anytime. Schroeder 
Liverpool this weekend! Dinner tonight? Happy Birthday Mary, Luv and Later! Thorn 
Geoffrey! You love me! Not Hobbes. As ever, Cree 
NOTICES 

Come read in Shakespeare marathon starting Fri 3pm in South Quad. Call 1783 or 6645 for reading time. All proceeds go to charity 
Attention: All Mgt. Club members -free picnic Fri noon west of Hurley Bldg. -membership sign-ups also $2-yr. 
The Illegitimate son disowns the Pontiff and begs mercy of the Anti Christal Coalition through Sister Bodily Death. 
Ms. Francis Cynthia Burtchaell wishes to announce the encamp­ment of her personage in the luxurious confines of Dillon Hall. Come find her Fr. Jim!! 
Now you can read the N.Y. Times daily and on Sun. Get your copy at Pandoras Book. We, II reserve one 
for you 
Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Friday at 
4:40 Call Tom Boyer 272-1807 
Pandoras Books has a no charge special ordering service for books and art prints. We want you to have the books you want fast. 602 
N. St. Louis Blvd. 
SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE,2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE FROM 12-15-5:00 MWF AND 11:00-1:00 & 2:3D-5:00 TT 
TICKETS FOR THE LYNYRD SKYNYRO-HYDRA CONCERT OCTOBER 1 AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
Available 2 Double Holiday Inn Rms. Pre-paid Fri & Sat. nights-for Purdue game Call Joe-289-3923 
MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150, Basement of Lafortune-Daily, 11:15-12:15 
TALISMAN AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES, DANCES, CONCERTS & PREGAME PERFORMANCES. 
CALL 272-9895 FOR IN­FORMATION. 
Euphora records lowest price for all records. Including imports and cutouts plus weekly specials. 234­6535 
Free 3 puppies. One! 6 months others-3 months Call 234-3730 
HOCKEY GAME: THE CAMPUS VIEW CRUNCHIES vs. THE FLANNER FROGS. WED. OCT 2, 
11:00 P.M. AT THE A.C.C. CAMPUS VIEW AND STONE RIDGE RESIDENTS WHO WANT TO PLAY BUT HAVEN,T SIGNED UP YET, CALL CLIFF AT 272-9895. 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS 
NOW ON SALE STUDENT UNION OFFICE  AT TI THE CKET  
WANTED  

2 Purdue GA tix. Will pay good price. Call 1902 
Need desperately: Three Michigan State tix. Call Jerry 1636 
Need 2 GA or Student tix for Purdue. Call 4834 
Need GA Purdue Tix Call Norm 277----0130 ­
Need Ride to Cleveland Oct 4 weekend. Call Mary 1250 
Wanted 2 GA Tickets for Purdue Call 8475 or 8472 
Wanted at "ny cost: 2 adjacent GA tix for Purdue -7812-P_!It 
Wanted-May Fair Rest Waiters 5-lD--11 pm part time or full time. Must be 21. $1.25 plus tips Call 255-5517 
Wanted: 2 Rice GA tixs and 4 Army GA tixs Call Joihn or Kathy 
282­

Wanted: 2 Rice GA tixs and 4 Army GA tixs Call John or Kathy 282-1568 
Desperately need 1 Purdue tix Call John 8883 
WANTED: lRICE TIX call 284­4371 
Need 2 GA tix for Purdue Will pay $ Call Jim 3303 
Need desperately GA Pitt Tickets Please Call Monica 4489 
Need tix for Elvis. Calli Ellen­4720 
Need 1 Student or GA ticket for Purdue Desperately Will pay $ Call Paul 3178 
Need 2 GA tix for any home game in Oct. Call Ellen 4720 
Help wanted -Construction Laborers-2.50hr. min. 8-5 Mon-Sat. Partime or fulltime. Apply in person. Fat Wallys Electric Beer Joint 2046 s. Bend 
Ave. 

Desperately need 3 Purdue Tickets. Call 272-9599 
Needed-drivers for 3 year old in So. Bend One hour per day. $20 per week. Call collect Sat. mornings before lOam. AC 312-iS93-2281 
N_eed 2 GA Purdue tickets. Call J1m 272-7734 
Need 2 GA Purdue Tickets Please Ca II 6956 or 1254 
Need 2 GA Pitt Tickets Will pay! Sue 6771 
Need 2-4 GA Rice Tickets Dave 6818 
Need 1 ticket for Purdue. Call 3140 
Need 4 GA Tix for Purdue Call Bill 1746 
Need Ride to Tulsa Oct. break. Expenses shared Joe--283-1205 
Need 1 ticket (student or GAl to Purdue game. Please call Brenda 4260 or Debbie 6746 
Need 1 Student tix for Purdue-­Call Trace 234-1889 
Desperately Need 2 GA Purdue tix Call 6232 
Desperately need Two GA Tix for Army Call Rahj 1612 
Wanted : Two GA Tickets for Miami 289-4303 
Desperately need 1 GA ticket for Rice and 4 for Pitt. Call Beth ­5144 
Need 1 ticket for Purdue Game 277-G021 
Desperate: Need ride to Mich. State game Will share expenses Calli 4238 
Need 2 Purdue tix-Calli Brady 272-4156 or Norm 277----0130 
NEEDED DESPERATELY 1 GA Ticket to Rice Game Tom 8398 
WANTED: From 1 to 10 tickets to the Purdue game. Calli Joe at 289-3751 
Urgently need 6 Purdue tickets Calli Tom 288-7637 
Desperately Needed 2 Presley Concert Tickets Willing to Pay Well Phone 259-Q408 After 5 p.m. 
Need 2 Elvis Tix -Good money 272-9622 
Need 8 Tix for Purdue Call 288­7946 
Need six Miami Tickets Pay Top Dollar 272-9622 
Desperately need GA tickets for any home game Don 1213 
Need 4 GA Tickets for Purdue Will Pay $ CallI 288---6195 
Need 4 Michigan State tickets Calli 3683 
Need 6 GA tix for Purdue. Will pay mucho $. Call Steve, 289--1376 
Need 2 GA tix for Purdue Call Greg 3687 
Wanted: 2 Army tix Call 287----0076 
FOR SALE 
For Sale Upright Piano -sso. Yes, it works Call 272--9990 After 5 pm 
For Sale: Honeywell Pentrax SSpotmatic Takumu 1:2 55mm. Lens 287----0076 Ray 
Brand New Tennis Rackets ­Wilson , Head -all kinds. Big Discounts. Call anytime John ­1646 
FOR SALE: PAIR OF TICKETS TO SEPT. 30 ELVIS PRESLEY CONCERT. SECOND ROW, SECTION B. BEST OFFER. CALL 6818 BETWEEN 9:00 and 
11:00 p.m. 
1970 Chevy, Stationwagon, Low milage, good condition, good on gas $995. 272-8246 Weekdays after 5:30 p.m. 
Sherwood 8900 A FM Receiver 232-8854 
For Sale: 2 Elvis tickets Call Tom 3540 
FOR SALE: 69VW -AM-FM Stereo, Excellent Condition Best offer Call after 8pm 283-3639 
FOR SALE: ,68 Ford Mustang V6 3 speed. Good condition. Best offer. Call 1413 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Keys in North Dining Hall, Thurs. Sept. 19 NBC insignia on key chain Reward; Call 1328 
LOST: Saturday between faculty 
parking  lot;  Dillon.  Silver  ring,  
black  stone,  inscribed  "Chris"  
Call 7954.  

LOST: Small Gold Pen-knife-­initials J.T.R.-between North Dining Hall & Walsh-Call 8113 
Found: In photography studio: Gold pin with initials SFHS-1971 Ca II Observer 8661 
Lost: Hard black glass case with gold wire rimmed glasses inside. Reward Call Brian at 287-3586 
Lost: H.S. ring in O,Shag piano room. Initials A:J.F., Gold. Call 8624 
Lost: 1 pr of girls silver wire­rimmed glasses on Sept 13, 1974 somewhere between Stepan and Breen Phillips-Reward ph-3097 
Lost: Ladies black watch on South Quad or parking lot Anna 4909 
Lost-Black wallet between Engineering and N. Dining Hall. I D No. 731069729 Reward if returned Call Dave 233-3647 
Lost $225.00 cash CBETWEEN Keenan-field house; field house­
O,shag;  Field  house­ 
Administration  Big.  Large  
Reward Call 3368  

FOR RENT 
TOM,S UNIVERSITY STAN· OARD AT IRONWOOD & STATE RD.23 WILL GIVE YOU A FREE 
N.D. GLASS WITH fJ. FII:L-UP. 
-

.. 
12 tha.observer Thursday, September 26, 1974 Rcmdy Payne-it's all part of his 'ghetto philosophy' 
by George Eckes made the adjustment to defense. ''but everything is tentative. 1·m 
"It was a rough transition at first," 
not like some other people who set 
says Payne. "I had trouble un­

Last May, Randy Payne's main goals for themsleves and then that 
derstanding the fundamentals of

concern was improving his play at is the only thing in their life. I'll set 
the corner position in the defensive good defense. But guys like a goal, but my life isn't centered 
secondary. Reggie (Barnett) and Mike around it. If your mother sends
(Townsend) gave me help and

When he looked toward the fall you to the grocery store, your goal he saw some playing time in store encouragement and that has aided is to get there, but on the way youfor himself, but nothing extensive. me greatly. The coaching staff has can have fun, enjoy the weather, A short four months later he oc­also been quite helpful. They will the scenery, rap with some friends. cupies a starting position on the tell you things that you can't see I set goals but I don't have tunnel defending national champions of yourself. But then, that's what vision " 
they get paid for."

college football! "Getting adjusted here is the Serious questions and pressures For Randy, football is just one same way. The best way to gethave been placed on the defensive facet of his life. "I'm not counting acclamated here is not to let things backfield. Names like Mike on sports as the be-ali and end-all. bother you. I learned not to worryTownsend, Tim Rudnick, and It is fine now but it will come to an about things a long time ago. An Lut~er Bradley have been end. It's all part of my overall example for me is living here in replaced by Randy Harrison, John attitude concerning life. I deal what I consider to a non-urban Dubenetzky, and Randy Payne, with thing,; as they come along. If environment. I come from an but that kind of situation doesn't something happens that is good to urban center (Washington D.C.)bother the 5-9, 180 lb. junior from me, like football and the travel that and am used to certain luxuries I Palmer Park, Maryland. comes along with it, fine. But if can get there that are not available "That kind of talk?... I just something happens that is not to out here. But you just have to take 
ignore it. That is their opinion and my advantage ... well, that is fine an easy attitude." 
everyone should respect it. But too. It's all iJart of what I call my This self proclaimed "easy at­
this is college football, not the "ghetto philosophy". titude" should not be confused with 
pro's. Those names have to be Th~at type ol thmKmg carries Randy Payne unexpectedly stepped Into a starting role in the Irish 
replaced sooner or later. I just try over into Randy's life as a student Payne's deep-seeded desire to to defensive backfield this season. The junior cornerback has his own pu­to take care of what I'm doing. I'm here as v.ell. An American studies develop into a top-notch cor­hilosophy on football and life. 
more concerned with my job and major' he hopes to go into some nerback. "I'm certainly striving use the old cliche of taking them Georgia Tech and Northwestern 
not trying to make mistakes." aspect of film, maybe behind the for total perfection this year, even one at a time. I'm certainly would certainly agree that Payne
In high school Payne was an camera. if it is unattainable. As far as the confident of our abilities. But we and company are sticking prettyoffensive back but, like quite a few "I've had an interest in that for prospects for the coming year, I will have to stick to business." close.other outstanding athletes, he has quite some time," explains Randy, 

Buggers sweep Michigan 
by Bob Kissel kicking to them and decided to run than ever before. "We played at them, which opened up our many young, inexperienced guys," 








OBSERVER 
offensive attacks." explalined rugger Leo Ehrline,
The Notre Dame rugby team 
"The turning point in the game "but they played tough, hitting,
finally opened their fall season this 
was in the second half when Tom hustling, and keeping us in the
past weekend after an unexpected 
Hastings scored a try to put us· game. The serum was consistently
delay. The Irish ruggers 
ahead for good," added Casey. getting the ball out to the backs

SPORTS 
scheduled Marquette for Sep­
''Tom drop kicked the ball who did a good job keeping the
tember 14th in Milwaukee. Un­
downfield, outhustled the Michigan angle."
fortunately for the Irish, the 
back to the ball, and went in for the Despite the Notre Dame 'C'
Warriors mistakenly scheduled 
winning try." squad having only two players with 
both Notre Dame and Wisconsin 
The Irish victory was iced by game experience, this band of
the same afternoon. Marquette 
Rich Arensberg's second try of the rookies defeated the Wolverines'
wi~ely choose to play the Big Red 
game. Chet Zawalich converted on 'C' squad 16-9. Pete Brosnan andBadgers of Wisconsin.

Lacrosse opener set 
two conversion kicks for four Barry Pourpore each scored two
The ND 'A' side began their 
points. tries and Mike Michalek registered 

by George Eck quest for another Midwest "After those two quick scores we two conversion kicks for the Irish
rugby crown by drubbing the 
thought the game would be a offense.

"Most adjectives can't really describe the feelings in the lacrosse University of Michigan 20-13 at camp. For this being just the fall sessions and not on any official records, Ann Arbor. The Irish went into the breeze," remarked rugby vel The Irish 'C' unit made up for the enthusiasm and hustle is really beyond comprehnsion." These words contest with a certain eagerness Larry Casey, "but Michigan their lack of experience by sheer echoed by co-eaptain John Corcoran seemed to sum up the thinking of the and definite confidence of victory. settled down and really made us desire. The younger players just whole lacrosse squad on Sunday after their first game situation scrim­play catchup ball. We didi realize kept coming and stopping the 
The Irish opened the game with

mage in anticipation of the home encounter against Purdue this weekend. where our game needs work, in numerous Michigan offensive 
two quick scores by Jim Kovacs

With a blue and white team made up of A and B team members, the getting the ball out quicker to the drives. These Irish ruggers were stickmen played vociferously to a 5-5 tie in regulation time on Sunday. and Rich Arensberg. The backs from both the loose and set amazingly fast getting into the The overtime suspense did not last long, however, as freshman Wolverines settled down and serums." flow of their first game.phenomenon Mark Connelly slammed in his third goal of the game, steamed back, capitalizing on This Saturday morning at ten the thirty seconds into the extra quarter to give the Blue's a 6-5 victory. some sloppy ND play, to take the The Irish 'B' squad was also Irish host Purdue at the athletic 
Connelly's goal scoring certainly wan't the only highlight in the game, lead at halftime. The Notre Dame victorious in a 20-7 decision over fields bel1ind Stepan Center. as Joe Meares and Bob Thibedeau scored two goals a piece and Paul defense was consistently tested by t.he Wolverines. Newcomer Tony 
Purdue is an unknown to ND, as Rizzo and Tom McHugh's stick handling brought raves from their the Wolverines and was able to Mendiola played his first rugby the two teams have not met in sixsuperiors. Coach Rich O'Leary commented, "They bring a great deal of come up with the big play to stop game and scored three tries. Leo years. The nly game plan the Irish 

stability to our offensive game." the threat. 
Ehrline added a try and Mark can use is to adjust to Purdue'sDefense, usually a strong point for the Irish with the likes of Geoff "In the second half we changed Keown connected on two con­

style-something the ND ruggersLyden and George Carberry in recent years had been questioned this our game plan, adjusting our version kicks to round out the ND are used to. So shake off thoseseason due to graduation depletions. Corcoran said, "We were co~­
strengths and weaknesses to scoring. 
post rally cobwebs and witness thecerned, but the play of Bill Foley, Mark Carberry (George's younger Michigan's" explained team This season the Irish 'B' squad start of a long, losing day forbrother) and Mark Roipko have made our job much easier." 
captain Larry Casey. "We stopped has fewer experienced players Purdue followers.
An added attraction to the balanced team effort .will be the employment of Thad Naquin and Don Trabert as man-down defensivemen, known in hockey as penalty killers. "It can only help put better balance in the team's appearance," said Corcoran. "That enables everyone to con­centrate more on their particular specialties." 
The Irish face Purdue Sunday at 11:00 a.m. on Stepan Center Field in the first exhibition contest of the year. 
Purdue rally slated 
For those who have avoid the possibility of damage to not yet experienced the Irish rally the cycles.tradition, the Purdue event should The Purdue Pep Rally will be be an unmatched mitiation. The highlighted by a giant, twentyfeatured speakers Friday night minutes fireworks displaywill be co-eaptains Greg Collins heralding the defending national and Tom Clements, introducing champions and Coach Parseghian. their respective starting line-ups, The fireworks will take placeand Head Coach Ara Parseghian. immediately following the rally in 
The Fighting Irish Marching the field to the north of StepanBand steps off from Washington Center. All participants are Hall at 6:40 p.m. and will make requested to cooperate with the their usual circuit of the campus on Rally Committee when asked to the way to Stepan Center, where remain a safe distance from the the rally begins at 7:00p.m. Drum fireworks display area. Major Tom Burke suggests that Welcome home the number one those who park ·their bikes along team in the nation tomorrow nightthe band route would do so on the at Stepan, 7:00 p.m.outside of the steel wires, and thus 


-




