
Oil The Inside 
Marijuana 
... page 3 
Clytemnestra 
... page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Tuesday, October 1, 1974.
Vol. IX, No. 24 
Off-campus residence robbed 

To cq:pear before subcommittee 
Ford to answer questions on Nixon pardon 
WASHINGTON IUPU-­Nessen said. offer, "I am impressed by meet the new deadline. He askea seven legislative days of their President Ford told a House "The pardon power is the sole President Ford's desire to set the for a Monday evening deadline and introduction. If the committee subcommittee Monday he would power of the President under the record straight personally. It is got it. doesn't act, the members may appear in person within the next 10 Constitution and since he knows consistent with the frankness and Among the questions Ford was raise the issue on the House floor days to answer its questions about best all the circumstances openness he displayed as a requested to answer were: and demand an immediate vote. why he issued a full pardon to surrounding the exercise of that congressman." --Whether he had any knowledge of If the House adopts the former President Nixon. power, he felt he was the best Hungate had asked Ford in a Nixon's mental or physical con­resolution of inquiry, the President 
In a surprise move, Ford sent person to supply the information letter two weeks ago to explain the dition prior to granting the pardon. then would have 10 days to respondRep. William L. Hungate, D-Mo., a that was requested," Nessen said. reasons behind his pardon. Ford --Whether he knew of criminal to the questions. Hungate con­three-paragraph letter shortly "The President is prepared to answered that he or his counsel charges that may have been ceded, however, that there were no before 8 p.m. EDT telling him, "I respond to each question and point had already answered those brought against Nixon. precedents beyond that and that he expect to appear personally to of i11formation in the resolution," questions in news conferences, the --Whether he discussed it with did not know if Congress would respond to the questions raised in said Nessen. "He understands that transcript of which Ford sent members of his White House staff have any recourse if the President two resolutions of inquiry con­the hearing is limited in its scope to Congress. and with whom and whether he failed to answer. cerning the pardon." the questions and points of in~ That response angered the discussed the pardon beforehand It could subpoena the President 
If Ford appears in person before formation as stated in the subcommittee members and they with the attorney general or or move to impeach him, Hungate 
the subcommittee, he would resolutions and obviously it is decided to again demand answers special prosecutor. said. 
become only the third sitting limited to matters within the scope to their questions. They insisted Hungate said White House Hungate's subcommittee 
President in U.S. history to appear of his knowledge." that Ford send his counsel, Philip officials told him they had already has scheduled a second 
before a congressional panel, Ford had been given until the Buchen, or someone equally researched the practice of hearing for Tuesday morning, but 
according to White House end of the day Monday to reply to knowledgeable about the pardon presidential appearances before witnesses will be members of 
researchers. 14 questions posed by two mem­decision to testify before the panel congressional committees and Congress concerned with the 
"It would be my desire to bers of Congress asking the Tuesday. found that only George Washington release of information special 
arrange this hearing before your background to his Sept. 8 un­Hungate, head of the House and Abraham Lincoln had ap­Prosecutor Leon Jaworski com­
subcommittee at mutually con­conditional pardon. The pardon Judiciary Criminal Justic sub­peared while President. Theodore piled about Nixon's involvement in 
venient time within the next 10 freed Nixon from any prosecution committee, gave Ford until last Roosevelt appeared before a Watergate and will not include an 
days." Ford said in his letter. for crimes he may have committed Thursday evening to respond, but committee after he left the administration witness. 
"The President decided that the while president. the White House requested an presidency, they said. The White House also said 
best approach was the direct The pardon angered Congress, extension. By appearing within 10 days, Monday that Nixon had told Ford 
approach," said White House press and Reps. Bella Abzug, D-N.Y., Hungate granted a 24-hour ex­Ford would nullify the privileged two weeks ago that he was willing 
secretary Ron Nessen, who also and John Conyers, D-Mich., in­tension, but Ford became nature of the Abzug and· Conyers to give up his pardon. Ford, ac­
j 1 
said Ford expects the hearings to troduced resolutions of inquiry preoccupied with his wife s pen­resolutions of inquiry. cording to his spokesman, did not be public. Televising the hearings demanding an explanation. ding operation for breast cancer In the House such resolutions consider it "a serious offer" and would be up to the subcommittee, Hungate said in reply to Ford's and said he would not be able· to require -~ommittee action within did not accept it. 
by Gregg Bangs Staff Reporter 

Last Thursday between 1:00 and 3:00p.m., Bruce Petrovick and his roommates at 1256 East Sorin, had over $1000 of electrical appliances stolen. The following day, burglars carried off an additional $400 worth of their possessions within the space of twenty minutes. 
Petrovick joins the growing number of off-campus students whose homes have been burglarized. In little over a month, Director of Off-Campus Housing Father Thomas Tallarida has learned of over fifty-five burglaries. Four have involved losses of over $1000. 
Unlike most students who have been victimized, Petrovick, a senior from Norfolk, Me., took his problems to University officials. In a letter written to the Observer, Petrovick described the burglaries and urged campus officials to pressure civil authorities to find a solution to the rising crime rate. 
"Both of these robberies took place in the middle of the day while we wereat class, but yet not one neighbor saw or heard a thing," s_tated Petrovick. "On Thursday the burglars stacked the stereos, calculators, televisions and space heaters into a car," "but nobody saw the car, either," he lamented. 
"This is the fifth time in the last five months that this 
house has been robbed," said Petrovick. "Thus far, 
over $4000 worth of material" has been stolen." 
Petrovick's house has not been the only one hit by 
burglaries. The northeast side of town, has been the 
scene of other thefts. Glen Rimmer, who lives on 
Miner Street, a block from East Sorin, had $200 worth 
of stereo speakers stolen. 
Petrovick called up the South Bend Police after each 
robbery. "They sent over two uniformed officers who 
just asked questions and looked around," he claimed. 
"Then a detective came by on Saturday, just looked 
around, asked a few questions and said there was 
nothing he could do." 
The Detective Bureau of the South Bend Police 
acknowledged Petrovick's account of police action. 
"Our first move is to send a uniformed officer to the 
scene of the burglary," said Captain of Detectives 
Walter Benninghoff "The officer takes in the 
preliminary account of what happened, what's 
missing, and-or any description of suspects," Ben­
ninghoff continued. 
"We then send a detective to follow up on any 
possible leads that may have developed. However, 
most of the burglaries happen so quickly that nobody 
ever see any suspects, which leaves us with nowhere to 
start. Usually, we try to get the registration (or serial) 
numbers down," Benninghoff said. 
Benninghoff said most stolen material has serial 
numbers inscribed on it. The serial numbers of the 
stolen merchandise are fed into a computer run by the 
National Crime Information Center. If the stolen 
article turns up anywhere in the country, it can be 
traced back to where it was stolen or lost. This sytem of identification through serial numbers is known as Project Mark. 
Dean of Students John Macheca noted that the University aslo has a system of serial number identification. "We have a Project Hallmark on campus which works pretty well. Last year, a Lyons resident had a stolen television turn up in Atlanta," he said. 
However, this program does not help Petrovick and his roomates. "We remembered some of the registration nimbers but I don't know how good that's going to do us now," said Fedele Volpe, one of Petrovick's roomates. 
Other than "Project Mark," the only way students can be conpensated for their losses would be through insurance payments. Unfortunately, most insurance plans do not cover the types of losses incurred by Petrivick and his roomates. 
"Landlord's Insurance plans only cover their own property," said Fr. Tallarida. "I have heard about one landlord who offers students insurance and sells it to them, but I question the ethics of that situation. However, in almost all cases, the students have no coverage under landlord's plans." he added. 
Fr. Tallarida has given an evaluation of an insurance plan offered by a local private company to student government officials who had planned to use it. 
Petrovick said he heard about the student plan, but 
had not used it because everything had to be itemized. 
One of Petrivick's roomates was covered by his 
parents insurance plan, but Petrivick and Volpe were 
not. 

This house is the cite of last Thursday's burglary that netted over $1400 worth of goods. 
Captain Benninghoff thought that Petrovick and Volpe's situation was commonplace amoung college students. "Most students do not look into the insurance aspect of housing as much as they should," he claimed. 
"If they did, they would find that most landlords only carry fire insurance, if they carry any at all. The students are left to take responsibility for theirlosses," he commented. 
Tallarida is concerned about the responsibility of having to deal with this loss. "Even if the student is covered by an insurance plan, what is he going to do in the meantime?" he pondered. 
Petrovick feels that the situation can only get worse. "If we have 1 $1400 of electrical equipment stolen during the day, can you imagine what's going to happen during breaks? Every off-campus student should be worried about the safety of his possessions during vacations, " Petrovick emphasized. 
In his letter, Petrovick stated "I am positive that our case does not stand alone, for many students have known the situation well and many more will know it by the end of the year. I strongly urge all off-campus students to write or talk to Macheca, Burtchaell or Hesburgh to pressure civil authorities for a solution, because whatever steps are being taken now are totally insufficient. Off-campus students should have more to look forward to than getting ripped off." 
Petrovick has talked to Fr. Hesburgh, who in turn gave him the name of the University attorney. Hesburgh also advised him to "buy a dog!" 
Petrovick feels "the University owes more to off­campus students. 
"Ifa student is forced to move off-campus, and 1he is 
promptly burglarized, I feel the University should do 
something about it, " Petrovick stressed. "The South 
Bend authorities can't seem to do anything about the 
crime problem. Maybe the University can get 
something done. We deserve more than promises of a 
food co-op and a residence list," he added. 
Petrovick's calls for action have not gone unheeded. 
Tallerida, Macheca, and Benninghoff all have ex­
pressed concern over the rapidly growing off-campus 
crime rate. However, solutions to the problem are not 
as numerous as the complaints. 
Fr. Tallerida commented that the off-campus 
student is a "victim of his locality," and is more orless 
at the mercy of the area in which he lives. "I know the 
Northeast area has been having problems, but I'm not 
sure what to do about it," Tallerida stated. 
"I could close the northeast area off the residence 
list at the end ot this year, and eliminate the University 
from any responsibility to students who do choose to 
live there next year against our advice. But that would 
not serve any real purpose,"' rallarida continued. 
"There are some very good student resident 
facilities in the northeast area and to bar students 
from them would be a waste of good housing. It would 
also be bad public relations tn. single out that area and 
(continued on page 3) 
2 the observer Tuesday, October 1, 1974. 

·----~~~~~~~~~-----------~----~~--------­
~ ' ' \ ' ",1 " • ., .. ' , 
warld briefs 
LISBON <UPil--Gen. Antonio de Spino!~ resigned ~onday losing a power struggle with young, lefbs~ army officers who helped put him in power with a military coup five months ago. 
NICOSIA <UPil--Rival Greek and Turkish Cypriot lea~ers agreed Monday to the return to Cyprus of captured Greek Cypnots held in Turkey and resume the exchange of prisoners taken by both sides in the Mediterranean island's summer war. 
OTTAWA <UPil--Soldiers armed with bayonnet~d rifles and Royal Canadian Mounted Police carrying woode~ not st~cks and firing tear gas forced about 3~ demonstrati!ig Indians off Pariiament Hill Monday on the opemng day of Parliament. 
BATON ROUGE, LA.<UPll-A two-story office building under constructioncollapsed Monday, killing three people and injuring seven others, one critically. 
A spokesman for the East Baton Rouge Parish sheriff's office said workers "had been pouring a stressed concrete roof, when two beams collapsed on the section of the roof." 
an campus taday 
4:30pm . seminar , "mosquito nectar feeding" by dr. paul r. 
grlmstad, sponsor~ by biology dept., galvin life aud. 
5 and 7 pm. film, "meMtco, the frozen revolution", by black and 
chicano film festival, eng. aud. 
7:30pm. panel discussion, "year of ghe women", sponsored by 
ladles of notre dame, library aud. 
7:30pm. lecture, "growth and male sexual Identity" by mortoo 
t. kelsey, dillon hall chapel 8:30pm. concert, elvls pres ley, {sold out), ace daily 10-5 pm . art exhibit, pre-columbaln, fren:::h, contmmpt. graphics, art faculty and masterpieces from permanent collection, nd gallery 12-5 pm . art exhibit, eugene atget photographs, paris scenes, main moreau gallery (beneath o'laughlln), oct. 1 thru 28 
12-9 pm. art exhibits, "Improvisations on form", sr. m cecilia ann kelly, acrylic wash drawings, hammes gallery (by little theatre) .paintings from yin yang series, harriet rex-smlth,little theatre gallery -watercolors, gertrude harbart, photo gallery (beneath o'laughlln arcade), all oct. 1 thru oct. 28 



Inlorlllation Services starts portable inlorl1JCJ1ion booth 
by Fred Herbst Stafl Reporter 

Director of Information Services Richard Conklin announced the inception of a portable information booth located at the circle. "This is the initial step to give better service to campus visitors," he stated. 
Sponsored by the Department of Information Services, the booth will be staffed by students of the work-study program. 
Conklin stated the need for three more students to operate the booth. 
Any student who is interested in working at the booth and qualifies under the work-study program should contact Conklin at his office in the Administration Building. 
The Director of Information Services hopes to have the booth in operation this weekend. The in­formation booth will be open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. every Saturday and Sunday until the weather turns colder. On day so home football games, the booh1 will be open from 9 a.m. until shortly before game time. 
The information booth will give directions to visitors, hand out campus maps and answer any general questions about the University that a visitory might ask. 
Stressing the need for such a service, Conklin said that before now "the University hasn't done much for the casual campus visitor during the aca:iemic year." 
However, the staff of the booth will not give campus tours. Tours may be arranged through the office of the Director of In­formation Services. 
Revealing that there is a shor­tage of students that j;1;ive campus 
I, 
ND-SMCblood drive begins today 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
The newly-{)rganized ND-SMC blood drive officially gets un­derway today as members of Stanford Hall volunteer to donate blood at the Central Blood Bank downtown. Cars to the blood bank will leave the main circle at 9, 10:30, 12, 1:30 and 3:00pm. 
Under a new system, blood mobiles which frequented the campus in the past and the blood drives in Stepan will no longer be necessary. Instead, each residence hall has been allotted one Tuesday or Thur!!day during the semester when its members may donate blood at the blood bank in South Bend. 
One reason for the change, ac­cording to ND:SMC Blood Council Chairmen John Famula and Robin Heisler is that, "Notre Dame and St. Mary's are part of the South Bend community,and as such, we <students) can serve that com­munity with a continuous supply of blood." 
In addition, continued Heisler, Notre Dame is a stepping stone for the national blood program in that it is "getting people to donate on a 

Dean Shaffer 

joins posts 
Thomas L. Shaffer, dean of the Law School at the University of Notre Dame, has been named to two major committees of the American Bar Association, ac­cording to officials of the Chicago­based organization. 
Shaffer will serve on the task force of the A.B.A. mental health project and the committee on education and judicial ad­ministration of the A.B.A.'s Judicial Administration Division. In addition, Shaffer has been named to the adjunct faculty in estate planning at the University of Miami. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box" Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
For example, she continued, if a person needed eight pints of blood over the year, at $25 a pint he would have to pay $200 for the blood, plus $14 a pint, or $112 for processing. If the volunteer program can be a success, he would only have to pay the $112. 
Although faculty and off-campus students have not been included in the blood drive program this year, the chairmen urge them to become regular, volunteer basis." 
involved by making  an  ap­ 
pointment to donate Central Blood Bank.  with  the  


If a volunteer blood donation program becomes successful and can provide a constant blood supply across the country by 1975, transfusion recipients will no longer have to pay for needed blood, but only for processing. 
Presently , the price of a pint of blood runs between $25 and $85 plus processing fees of $14 per pint, according to Famula. 
"If people give on a free basis, they can also receive blood on a free basis," Heisler emphasized. 
w :r: RESER\'ATIONS1­284-4176 Student -FacultySMC ND-5MC Staff $1.50THEATRE 1974-75 Our Ninth Season . LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGEL· Ketti Frings' Pulitzer Prize play based on the novel by Thomas Wolfe. Oct. 4, 5, 10, 11,12 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's)  
of South Bend 52980 U.S.31 North 272-5220 presents Wrig~t aro3. overland stage co. everything from down-home bluegrass to contemporary rock BEGINNING OCTOBERS-3 SHOWS NIGHTLY FROM 9:00-2:00 SUNDAY FROM 8:30-12:00  

--~--------~~-----~----~--~~-~~---~------~-~­
...,. 

-. ~ '· ­Tuesday, oCtober 1, 1974. ··tf.&~-c,~~~-~v;u ·--_.a 
Senate subcoll'DlJittee says 




Mar~.J~~~~ ~~:·w~~~~~.~~~~!~~~~~!.~~
WASHINGTON <UPI) Chairman James 0. Eastland of the Senate Internal Security subcommittee said Monday if the current rate of marijuana use continues, Americans mayfind themselves "saddled with a large population of semi-zombies." 
Eastland, in an introduction to a report of subcommittee hearings on marijuana, blamed the news media, in part, for the increase. 
(continued from page I) 
s~Hd he opp~~ed decnmmahza­tJon of mariJuana but favored more harmony between states and t~e fede~al government on penalties for Its. use.. . 
Eas_tland s~ud mformatwn supphe_d. to his I_>anel suggestth~ yahdlty of. estimates that 35 mill~?n Americans h_ave us_ed mariJUana at so~e. time, with more than 10 milhon regular users. 
"If the cannabis epidemic continues to spread at the rate 
of the post-Berkeley penod population of semi-zombies -!f young people acutely afflicted by the amotivational syn­drome," he said. 

Eastland said it could bring a society "largely taken over by a 'marijuana culture' -a culture motivated by a desire to escape from reality and by a consuming lust for self-gratifi­cation, and lacking any higher moral guidance."
"The spread of the epidemic has been facilitated by the fact 
Residence robbed 
inform them that their housing is not good," he stated. 
Macheca is presently meeting with city officials to discuss the problems of off-campus housing. "Last week I met with Pat Gallagher, the director of public safety in South Bend, and Kathy Cekanski, the assistant city at· torney, to talk about the vice squads. That does not have anything to do with this current problem, but next week, city and University Counsel Mr. Roemer, will join us in a meeting to deal with the off-campus houding crime rate," he explained. 
Tallarida is trying to refine the list of acceptable off-campus housing. "We're trying to get a history of the separate residences on the list. If we find a record of burglaries, we'll bring that out on the list," he commented. 
"Campus View apartments should also help alleviate the situation," Macheca continued. "With the increased number of housing units added to the residence list, we can drop the poorer units. It moreo or less follows the theory of natural supply imd demand. Hopefully, the choice of housing will getbetter," he commented. 

Although Bruce Petrovick's property loss is not the first in­curred by an off-campus resident, he is the first to publicly question the university's policy, or lack thereof, on off-campus burglaries. 
Macheca, Fr. Hesburgh, and Fr. Tallarida all expresse concern over the plight of victimized students, but there is no set policy which can deal with these matters. "I want to live off-campus," said Petrovick, . "but the university should help its students out." 
Lyons Hall holds elections 
by Karen Sikorski She will serve with vice presidentStaff Reporter Mary Beth Miracky, secretary Mary Gumble, and treasurer Judy

After two runoff elections Lyons 
Arenson.

Hall residents chose Jane Manning as this year's president on Friday. The first election was held last 
Uiliversity directory to 
•

arr1ve on October 10 
by Don Reimer Staff Reporter 

The final university telephone directories will be avilabel by Tuesday, October 10, according to Richard Sullivan, University Registrar. This information hs been sent to the publisher, Promotional Enterprises, in In­dianapolis. Directories will be distributed as soon as they are received. 
The delay in publication, ac­cording to Sullivan, wil aiiow more accurate data to be compiled. 
Sullivan pointed out that, "the pblication of a preliminary directory, instituted two years ago, is designed to provide the extra time needed to gather the more accurate student data." 
Sullivan said his office was concerned with obtaining off­campus student actresses. This process delayed the sending of the final informmation. 
Rich Golden, student services director, said directories may be distributed through the individual halls, but final plans are not complete. 

Monday. A tie for the presi_dency necessitated a second ballotmg on Wednesday. When neigher can­didate received 51 per cent of the vote, residents voted a third time on Friday. 
Because this is Lyons' first year as a women's dorm, meetings were held to determine what for the government would tak.e. Section leaders were elected and gathered opinions from other residents. In this way, members tried to achieve the highest degree of participation. 
Resident Advisor Sally -Smith organized the meetings but did not direct them. "We wanted the hall to create its own image and spirit," she said. "This formation had to come from the girls themselves." 
Residents decided the structure of government found in the other halls would best serve the needs of Lyons. Although the philosophy of the government has not been discussed in detail, preliminary meetings revealed a desire for a greater community atmosphere in the hall. 
have been articulate on the subject have been disposed to look upon marijuana as a rdatively innocuous drug," Eastland said. 
He said a "myth of harmles­sness" has been stimulated by writings that take a benign attitude toward marijuana. ' 
"A major role was also played by the generous atten­tion which the media bestowed on militant drug enthusiasts like Timothy Leary and Jerry
Rubin," Eastland said. "The d . ·P. o an -or 15 damage was further compound-ays Imp~Isonment. ed by the virtual blackout He said a proposal _that 
imposed by much of our media suspended sentences be gi_ven -at least until recently -on user~, pushers, and smalltime adverse scientific evidence trafflc_k_ets ;:vho _coope~ate with about the ff t f . . authontie:; ments seriOus con­
e ec s o man]ua-sideration." 
na '' 
IN CONCERT 


MAC DA~VIS 
Also Appearing: Naty Tmvers 
SAT. OCT. 19th 8:3t~ P.M. 
Ticket Prices NOTilE DAME 
Bleachers _______ $4.00 
ATHLETIC AND

Lower Arena _____ $5.50 CONVOC:ATION CENTER Loge.--____ .-•• _ $6.50 Platforms_ _______ $6.50 Main Floor_ ______ $6.50 
Tickets on sale: NOTRE DAME, A.C.C 
Mon.·Sat. 9 to 5 
Robertson's 
South Bend & Concord Mall 
St. Joseph Bank 
purposes, of the Sena_te hearmgs 
~as to correct the Imbalance. 
We ma,ke no apology therefo­re, for .he_ one-sided nature of ou~ hearmgs -the):' wer,~ dehberat_ely plann~d thiS wa~. 
He said Oreg~n s law, which treats posses~I_on of sm_ap ~~~~ts of ~~nJuana a~ a_ CIV~! 
' was too permiSsive,fnndN~at he f~vored one such_ as 
w Mexico, w~ere a first ~~~~~se ~f P?Ssess_IOn of one fine orr .~:~s tiS p$ulOOmshabdle by a 
and branches 
First Bank 
Phil Teah Agent 

''~~ralt~r ~-~ar~ s~mest~r Iatt~r s~mcsh~r~ the Collcg~Mast~r ·from 
Fid~lih' Union !Life has tx..-cn ttl~ most acc~ptL-d, most popular pi\ an on · campus~s all ov~r Am~rica. 
Find out why. 
Call th~ Fid~lity Union Coll~gcMast~r·· Fi~ld Associat{· in your ar~a: 
1005 E. LaSallte South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2~127 
--~-.'~


~q··.
.'.\ 
t'. .."f· -• l 



COllegeMaster" 

Dave Witt Agent 

IIHilllllllllllll.-uiiHilllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllll



THE OBSERVER 
AN INOEP£NOENT STUOFNT NEWSPAPER 
The Male 

EDITORIALS: 283-1661 NEWS: 213-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
TomDnpe Edltor-ln-Cittef ~red. Graver 
MarltneZiou 
Editorial Editor 

.........Editor 
Boob Zogas Terry Keeney Business Manc:ger News Editor 


October I, .1974. 


Wisdom •1n Silence 
What began as a light-hearted response to a comic strip, a humorous jest, has turned into a confrontation which has brought to the fore some of the most serious aspects of sexuality on this campus. 
What began as an attempt to cleverly define the characters of women and men has displayed blatantly our inability to express and relate to even the most basic elements of our own lives as human beings. 
The letters which have been printed in the Observer for the past week have gone from the ridiculous to the sublime-from the humorous to the obscene. It is quite apparent by now that the letters and the answers to them have done nothing but to increase the frustrations and hostilities which have so polarized the campus. They have served no constructive pur­pose. 
There is a strong indication here, then, that the co-educational atmosphere that is claimed by this University has proved inadequate. The expectations which greeted the coming of co-education now remain largely unfulfilled. 
The dominant sense is one of in­completeness, of something missing. The tone of the letters is one of people feeling cheated, persecuted, and searching for an enrichment of their lives which does not seem to be coming. 
It has been three years since the University of Notre Dame proclaimed itself a co-educational institution. In that lime, we have progressed from being an all-male campus to being a campus 
horribly divided  among  the  male  and  
female factions.  
The  building  of  our  co-educational  

institution has proven to be faulty in its very foundations. The carefully laid 

plans are beginning to show the areas where th(IJght and input were tran­sparent and glossed over. 
Why have w: failed to find a place where women ~nd men can face up to their identities, and confront each other in full and mature relationships without the sterotypes, labels and narrow, bigoted attitudes? 
When will co-education, in the true sense of the word, begin to fill in the frameworks that have been provided for its existence? When will admission procedures and female dorms do more than only create the presence of women on this campus? 
The time has come to search-not for solutions, for none can be found under the present atmosphere--but for an at­mosphere of openness and freedom. 
This atmosphere will not be found first in committees, in forums, even in small discussions among students. It shall first have to be found within. 
The first step to co-education, the step which has been ignored and forgotten, is for each member of the community to search within him or herself for the roots of attitudes of ignorance and misun­derstanding. 
The senseless, useless noise that has characterized the debate must cease. A period of silence is to be welcomt.d. A sense of calm rationality must r( place the violent emotionalism before any solution is to be found. Careful listening and consideration must rr-:place thoughtless harangues of glib opinion. 
Only without the bitterness and noise can each person here examine the inner attitudes and prejudices which have muddled the male-female situation. Only in such examination may we each, then, 
discover a wisdom that shall yeild a solution.  
The Editorial Board  

by Garry Trudeau 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
DOONESBURY 

The Editorial Board 
A llltAI'fl6 /.OAN?l ARE 
f)(}T >W WNT 

Editor-in-Chief: Tom Drape
UN/JiiRSTANO-THIS
YOU K!P/JIN6?!KXII#ANY 

Editorial Editor: Fred Grave.­
IS //t1P()({TANT! 11/ITHOUT
77Hl3 PO I HAVE TO lEU 

Managing Editor: Marlene Zloza
YIJ(/ Plf(}llf,.t -1115 PCW'T 
11/~APONS 7H~ CAN 

Sports Editor: Greg Corgan 
Be l'tfJ REYO/.UTIONI
FINANe£ 1NSI/Ii?.6£NCYl 

News Editor: Terry Keeney
ft10N6Y's 700 716HT ANP 

I Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy
>ttl 6tJYS AK£ 7lJ() 

Special Projects: AI Rutherford
CI!AZY/ '\ 

St. Mary's Editor: Mary Janca 
Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink 
Features Editor: J.R. Baker 
Contributing Editors: Ann McCarry 
Jim Eder, Pattie Cooney Photo Editor: Zenon Bidzlnskl 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIII 



Mystique 

m•mnmllliiiiiHllllllllll•nmlllumu 
fr. biII toohey 
It was one of those coincidences that we all ·experience~ at times: a number of things happen in quick SUCCession With similar elements, and you wonder about possible connections. 
In the morning I had read a provocative and disturbing article 
about male violence; in the afternoon three women from Saint 
Mary's told the SLC of thier experiences during the "panty-raid" of 
S~ptember 9th; and then that night I picked up Time magazine 
and found the following lead-paragraph in the Behavior section: 
"In 1895, the pioneer crowd psychologist, Gustave LeBon wrote: 
'isolated, a man may be a cultivated individual; in a crowd, he is 
a barbarian."' 
The testimony from the Saint Mary's students was deeply up­
setting. They told of how girlsweredragged out of bed and thrown 
into showers, one girl suffering a head injury; they told of students 
being pulled out of windows, thrown down, grossed out with ex­
pletives, of which "bitch" was the .mildest They said the most 
terrifying thing of all was being treated as non-persons, objects 
upon whom young men vented disdain and abuse. They revealed 
that throughout the episode there was a disquieting absence of any 
sign of good humor ; they sensed instead a spirit of hostility. 
They admmitted, however, that it was not at all just a none-sided 
affair. There had been individual St. Mary's women who were 
guilty of taunting the N.D. students, daring them· on,)peningdoors 
for them, passing out beer. 
The article I referred to was by Dr. Eugene Bianchi, aprofessor 
of Emory University, and then it appears in the September 18th 
issue of Christain Century. Let me attempt to paraphrase some of 
his points.

The basic way by which the male in our culture establishes his 
sexual identi ty becomes a prime source of exaggerated aggression 
in the interpersonal, economic and political realms. The problem 
is : How are males in our society conditioned to value themselves 
themselves as persons? What are the criteria of self-worth and 
social acceptance among American men? The answers manifest a 
close relationship between violence and sexismm. 
In addition to influences from the American family, and our 
schools, which indoctrinate the young male with such a deadly 
serious spirit of competition whereby hostility and violence 
become tools for removing obstacles on the way to the top, the 
young male is greatly influenced by peer relationships. 
The middle-and upper-class male peer group becomes a milieu 
for sexist development. The assumption here is that inflicting pain 
will produce real men who get ahead; Witness, for instance, the rite 
of fraternity hazing, or the tendency to label draft resisters 
"faggots" because they refused to undergo pain as an introduction 
to manhood. There is a fear and passion that grow out of the 
cultural demand for potency in heterosexual performance. The 
young male, torn by doubts about his own sexual capacity, flees 
from the specter of homosexuality. The problem is not that many 
or most young men are quite naturally somewhat insecure 
sexually; rather, it is the domineering, violence-orintated sexuality 
that is advocated as a cure. The young man is encouraged to 
"score" with girls to "make" women. This is sexuality of 
conquest, of throphies to deck out his ego.
In a culture that is geared to aggressive attainment and that 
demands a kind of technological effficiency even in sex, many men 
are imbued with a fear of relating to women in sex as full equals. 
Afterall, if it's a questionof equals, there is no need for one to 
control the other or to succedd according to external prescriptions. 
The male mystique rejects the core ethos of the Judeo-Christain 
tradition. Justice, equality, and community -all the qualities that 
promote the common welfare -cannot exist side by side with 
proness to violence The gospel stresses the building of trusting,life­
supporting communities; the male mystique emphasizes in­
dividualist self-aggrandizement through domination of others. The 
Judeo-Christain ideal evolved toward an ethic of minimizing 
destructive aggression; the male mystique is geared toward overt 
and hidden violence. Until we see and deal with -these con­
tradictions, we will continue to harbor a false conscience that is 
psychologically and spiritually damaging. 
At root, malechauvinismis a denial of our co-humanity with others 
and a rejection of the (masculine) anim us and the (femine) 
anima that reside in every individual. But the oppressor is also the 
oppressed. The male mystique is the instrument of the male's 
bondage. It keeps him from relaizing his full personhood. How 
then can American men change the basic myth they have been 
taught to live by? How can thet begin to sense their self-worth 
according to another model-that of affectionate, nori-oominant , 
sharing person.
These are some of the points in Bianchi's article that struck me 
most forcefully. His comments may have absoluteiy no connection 
with whathappened at Saint Mary's. Still thy made me wonder; 
and wonder very seriously about myself -and the challenges to all 
of us, as we strivetogetherto become full persons. 
the observer 
night editor: Mike Strlckroth Ass't Night Editor: Dan Sanchez layout: Bob Varettonl, Martha Fanning

Copy Reader: Jim Donethen Day Editor: Tom Russo
The Observer welcomes all comments and opinioQs Editorials: Fred Graversubmitted in the form of letters. · Features: J.R. Baker, Andy PeavlerAll letters should be submitted to The Observer, Sports: Bill Delaney, Bill Brink, Val Zurblls,Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana. 46556, or brought to The Greg Corgan Observer offices in the south wing on the 3rd floor of Typists: Barb Norcross, Barb Haug,LaFortune Student Center. They must be Jeff McPherson, Jim Landis Tom Modglin,typewritten, double-spaced and signed. Names will Compugraphic Operator: M. J. Foleybe withheld on request, bot!<ever. 
Picture Screener: Albert D'Antonio 
The Observer reserves the right to edit letters wbeD Night Controller: M.J. Foley 
spa~lallimitatioas !leem Decessary. LeDgtb of letters 
are asked to be Do more thaD two pages. 
)peclal Apologies to Chris Smlth.and his pizza.Never turn you back again. 

--.• -·:·.~-~~~-.-.. -..• -.. ---------...-~-------T-ue_sd_a_y_,_Oct_o..be...r·,-..-19·;·4.-----t·h-e·o--b·s-e..r_v_e_r_,--.-5-.·"~··j.,--·.:··.~·.,·1 
Ill• 1 0 
-. 
reparts ta the veaphyaical saciety 

correspondence and other business 
I

pussy cats and disappointment l l 

lynyrd skynyrd and hy,dra 
in concert tonij.ht at the rrorris ci,~ic aud. 
, I II IV 118-·IIVIBTT IIPII EPV P r•1n• II IB 
clyteme•tra van der vafielweide 
Minutes of the monthly Notre Dame Chapter meeting of September 29, 1974. The meeting was opened with a prayer and a touching description of the Notre Dame­Purdue football game for the edification of those not present at the actual event. Attendance: all members in good standing present although two were forced to leave during the description of the above­mentioned game. Old Business: the minutes of the last chapter meeting were read and amended as to the improper use of a third conjugation plural subjunctive command. Correspondence: two letters were noted by the secretary. The first was from one B. Bear and was read aloud by the secretary. There followed a heated discussion among the members still present as to whether B. Bear was a private animal or representing his species in which case it would be the secretary's duty to answer the letter under provisions in the constitution for correspondence with learned societies. It was eventually moved, seconded, voted 
upon and carried that Professorin von der 
Vogelweide consider the letter a personal 
affront and answer it how ever she saw fit ­
within the bounds _of decorum. 
There on the cover of Harry Nilsson's new album Pussy Cats are Harry and the album's producer John Lennon portraitized as, well as, pussy cats-an ironic comment, no doubt, on the escapades of the two which included a much publicized night club brawl. A Lennon-Nilsson collaboration is the natural result of the past few years. It was Lennon's announcement in 1968 that Nilsson was the Beatles' favorite American songwriter that gave Harry his first bigboost. 
It is easy to understand the Beati.es' ad­miration. Anyone who can produce albums as varied and as brilliant as The Point, Nilsson Schmilsson, and A Touch of Sch­milsson in the Night deserves it. When rock critics list the best American songwriters working today they don't talk of Paul Simon or Bob Dylan but rather of people like Nilsson, Randy Newman and Jim Webb. But unlike Newman or Webb who work under the handicap of limited performing ability, Nilsson shines both in vocal and production work as well as songwriting. 
Itis with disappointment then that one has to report that Pussy Cats is not up to the hit standards of his Schmilsson lp's. This album, Nilsson's first containing original songs in two years, had a more uneven 
Should someone know, 
or anyone care, where you sleep tonight? 



the deserter
You left your family and your home for you chose not to fight. 
Coward! Traitor! You turned your back! You took no part in bloodshed. by chuck kulig You will not share our blame 
for destroying lives and land. While we who went forth in freedom's name 
returned in sorrow and shame. 
Though uncertain of our cause, we held on to our beliefs. Never caring to question, never daring to object. Not for lack of courage, but /or de/eat our pride could not accept. 
Had every man stood up and said, "I do not choose to fight!": your sin would not have been a crime, 
instead, you would be right. Should we imprison you then, for Thinking differently? For you would surely be punished for your thoughts 
as well as for your act. You who dared to object. You who dared to follow your convictions. You are more a amn then those who boast to be. 
Come home, dear brother. Embrace your family, and be comforted once more. We shall put love in place of hate, and forget the tragedy of war. 

It was moved and seconded that the Society support Darby O'Gill as chairperson of the Bicentennial Committee for Preservation of the Notre Dame Ducks. The motion was declared out of order because the chapter had not yet finished with the correspondence. It was agreed, however, that a deputation of selected chapter members should be sent to ascertain if Darby O'Gill would be willing to serve in the above-mentioned capacity. The president of the chapter recommended that it be noted in the minutes that all present hoped he would. 
The second letter was then read by the secretary. It was moved, seconded, and carried that the letter should appear in the minutes in its entirety. 
September 27, 1974 
The Memorial Library 
Sub-basement 

To the Notre Dame Chapter of the Royal Geophysical Society; 
Clyternestra von der Vogelweide, 
Secretary: 

Greetings, I make haste to correct certain errors that 
quality than its predecessors, which is brought on by what must be considered mistakes in judgment. 
Jim Cliff's "Many Rivers to Cross" open the album with a Nilsson tribute on parody of Lennon's vocal style. While the band (full of talented people ie. Starr, Voormann, Moon) chuns on in a Specterish Plastic Ono Band sound, Nilsson sings in that familiar style including a scream at the end lifted right out of "Mother" from Lennon's first lp. While this song works as imitation, I would like to hear it done straight. 
Parody may or may not be the intent of the song "Black Sails" originally written by Nilsson for a Peter Sellers' pirate movie. Here the string arrangement swells in a way that recalls the Schmilsson in the Night lp, while Harry sings, 
A treasutre map is hidden on your legs .. 
But you're so veiny 
you probably think this map 
belongs to you ... 

Nilsson describes this song as "zany, wacky, wonderful kind of yucko song ... a sort of blues blood ballad." Actually it does not equal past nutty novelties such as "Coconuts" or "Joy." 
As is his custom he includes several oldies. "Rock Around the Clock" moves furiously in the fifties tradition but fails to 
have been foisted upon your membership ­notably upon your esteemed and learned secretary, Clyternestra von der Vogelweide <no doubt due to her endearing trait of childlike confidence -I refer the reader to page 195 of the Proceedings of the Berkely Dark Age Colloquia, 1953, and the description of the Snipe hunt held after the banquetl by the wretched Miss Gurnrns. The so-called Viking remains can be no later than 1475 according to my data and most probably represent the cod drying facilities of a fleet of Breton fishermen whose ac­tivities in the waters off the Northeast coasts of this continent during the fifteenth century are well documented. Perhaps if Miss Gumrns would spend a little less time with fancy techniques (typewriter erasers indeed!> and a little more time in pursuit of solid scholarship she might recognize this simple fact. There do exist authentic Viking remains on the Notre Dame campus but they are considerably to the south, in the area of the Memorial Library and faculty parking lot. The lakes mentioned in the Freydis Saga lay directly over the present football field -there were no lakes on the present sites but rather the area together with the entire south quad as far as the St. 
! ~ 
a review by john zy-gmunt I 
match the excitement of past Nilsson revivals as "At My Front Door". "Save the Last Dance for Me," which last surfaced in the DeFrancos' sticky bubblegurn version, it considerably slowed down here. It is excellently produced with Nilsson talking the last verse in counterpoint to his singing, something he hasn't tried since Aerial Ballet. The third OBG "Loop de loop" complete with children's chorus has a certain charm but I'm not sure that this is the sort of thing I want to hear Nilsson or anyone else doing. 
"Mucho Mundo," the new Lennon corn­position, has a beautiful melody reminding you of his later Beatles' work. Combined with Nilsson's version of "Mt. Elga" it proves to be very effective. 
Of the remaining Nilsson compositions "All My Life" moves jauntily through a list of the songs of the average rock star while "Old Forgotten Soldier" seems to lack the power his earlier vignettes have. 
The most moving, only truly brilliant song included in Nilsson's "Don't Forget Me" 
lilt. 
Ed's-Washington Hall line was given over to a miasmal swamp which the Norse inhabitants referred to as the "Fish Pond of the Goddess Helli" which would account for the Indian traditions concerning the fish in the present lakes. With all the burnt baked beans and undarned socks in the world it would seem that Mi:;;s Gumms could find something better to do than increase the sum total of man's ignorance. She could do a lot more good in the kitchen than messing around that lake -out of her depths in more ways than one. 
Very truly yours, 
Wilbuhr Force Buhndoggle 
Ph.D., M.S.D. 
formerly reader of reptilian 
phrenology at the University
of Herzegovinia 
New Business: it was moved, seconded, and carried that the treasurer be verbally reprimanded by the chapter for persisting in purchasing the tea in little bags which offends the sensibilities of several of the members. 

j
The meeting was closu:l with a short prayer 

j
for fraternal affection among all learned men and women. 

I 
I I 
which perhaps owes its roots to Nilsson's own recent divorce. The dramatic string arrangement seems to counterpoint Nilsson's ironic almost humorous attitude: "I'll miss you when I'm !onley -I'll miss the alimony too." However, the last verse speaks in moving fashion of the emptiness that awaits them both. 
When we're older and full or cancer, It doesn't matter now Come on get happy. Cause nothing lasts forever But I will always love you. Then in the final ehorus the singers' emotions meet those sugested by the arrangement as Nils~.on sings painfully, "Don't forget me-you lrnow I'll think about you -let me know you'll think about me too." 
It is one of the more memorable moments of Nilsson's career; a popular song moving in the direction of art form. It's style serves as a bridge between the old and the new Nilsson and promise1; much about his future. 



PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF OCTOBER 7 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Bldg. Interview times must be signed for in person. The sign-up period for interviews at the Placement Bureau 
will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday. School sign-ups are at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Boards, O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
~ Continental Can Company. 
ti:JN. BM in all Engr. disciplines. BM in BA. LW. Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York. B in AL. BM in BA. 
OCT.7/8 Aetna Life & Casualty. Life Division. ti:JN/ 
B in AL with professional business career interests. 
TUES. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. BMD in ChE, M.E., Chern, EE(for 8th only). Texaco Inc .. B in C.E, E.E, Geol. BM in ChE and M.E. 
OCT. 8 IBM Corpc·rat ion. 
TUES. BM in all disciplines. Omaha National Bank. B in Fin. and Acct. MBA. Northern Indiana Public Service Co. B in E.E., M.E., Acct. 
OCT.B/9/10 Dow Corning Corporation. TU/WED/ BM in Ch.E. MBA with Acct. or Mkt. THUR. 
OCT. 9 Allis-Chalmers Corporation. WED. B in all EG disciplines. Charmin Paper Products Company. 
Law 

All BBA. 
background or concentrali>n. 
BM in ChE, C.E., E.E., H.E., M.E.l.O. MBA with Bin EG. Laventhol Krekstein Horwath & Horwath. B in Acct. MBA with Acct background or concentration. Stanford University -Graduate School of Engineering. B in all Engineering disciplines. 
OCT. 10 Bendix Corporation. 
THURS. BH in E.E. and M.E. 8 in Acct and Fin. MBA with Fin background or concentration. University of Chicago. Graduate School of Business. B in all disciplines. Crowe, Chizek and Company. B in Acct. Lincoln National Corporation. B in Acct, Mgt, Fin, Hath. MBA with Fin and Mgt back­ground or concentration. Universal Oil Products Company. BM in ChE. 
OCI. 11 Chicago and North Western Transportation Co. 
FRI. B in BA. Krannert Graduate School of Industrial Admin. Purdue Univ. 
All degrees and disciplines. Pullman Incorporated. B in Acct, Fin, Hgt, M.E, E.E. Seidman & Seidman 
B in Acct. MBA with Acct background or concentration. 
Missile Systems D!v. Rockwell International. B in E.E. 
Employer Information. Alternatives. Teaching. Summer. Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. Room 213, Administration Bldg. 
. ' 

Nixon to have further tests 
the day and sits in a recllning chair with his leg elevated. He is
by Jack V. Fox 
wearing a full length support stocking on his left leg."
LONG BEACH, Calif. <UPI)­Former President Richard Nixon "The -battery of tests which had will have to undergo further tests to be suspended because of the to determine future treatment for time needed to allow for propera lung blood clot which will require Heparin anticoagulation therapy is his hospitalization until the first of being reinstituted thi~ week." 
Previous statements had in­dicated Nixon's only visitors were his wife, Pat, and, early in the stay, his ·daughter Julia Eisenhower. 
It was revealed over the weekend that another visitor had been Cardinal Timothy Manning of Los Angeles Catholic Archdiocese. 
next week and possibly longer, it was disclosed Monday. 
Dr. John Lungron, his personal physician, issued a new medical bulletin indicating that Nixon would not be able to appear as a subpoened witness at the opening day sof the Watergate cover up trial which starts Tuesday. 
Nixon was said to be showmg "marked physical exhaustion," and only in the past few days able to get out of bed for portions of the day to sit in a reclining chair with his leg raised. 
"I am hopeful that all the tests will be performed and that the pre liminiary findings will permit finalization of his future treatment schedule by the first of next week," Lungren's bulletin said. 
When Nixon first enterea the hospital Sept. 23,_ Lungren estimated the stay might end by the middle or end of this week. 
The former chief executive is under court order from U.S. District Judge John Sirica to ap­pear as a witness both for the defense and prosecution at the trial of John Ehrlichman, H.R. Halderman, John Mitchell and two other former aides. 
The statement by Lungren is the first bulletin since last Friday, also said: 
"Former President Nixon's treatment is proceeding satisfactorily. 
"The intravenous ad­ministration of the anticoagulant Heparin has been discontinued. President Nixon now is being anticoagulated adequately by oran doses of Coumadin. He will con­tinue to receive Coumadin for anticoagulation for an in­determinate period of time. 
"He continues to have marked physical exhaustion. But we have been able to increase his activities. 
He is now out of bed for portions of 
WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest La~e Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189 

8-TRACK STEREO 





SILE 

BLOOD. S\\ E,\T, & TE;\RS -NE\\' BLOOD VAHIOl'S AHTISTS -SOUL
I 

M:\SO!'I; PHOFFITT -ROCK FISH t'HOSSING
• 

·"""-........ 
'.'t I c·' 
I ' 
to....• 
JIMI HENDRIX -THE CRY OF LOVE 

THE KINKS-THE GREAT LOST KINKS' 
NOW· AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
-------------------------------------~.-T~-.e-sd_a_y-.-~-t-ob-e-~-1-,-19-74-.---------.--~-------_-:o__b_s_Q_rv__e__r____J_______,l 
Dean HofnDl institutes idea 
CLASSIFIEID RDS
Freslunan Advisory O>uncil starts 
by Bob Mader Staff Reporter 

The Freshman Advisory Council, originally instituted two years ago by Emil T. Hofman , Dean of the Freshman Year, had its first meeting of the year on September 23. 
Dean Hofman sent a letter to the hall presidents on September 4 asking them to appoint a representative from their respective halls who would be "responsible, articulate, and service-minded.'' Dr. Hofman pointed out that it was necessary for the hall presidents to appoint the Council representatives, since the freshmen do not know each other well enough at the beginning of the year to hold an election. However, Dr. Hofman stated that Council members are asked each year for alternative suggestions for the selection of members'The 
functions of the Freshman Ad­visory Council, as outlined by Dean Hofman are: 
1 To provide feedback on general eonditions as they affect freshmen. 
Dr. Hofman commented that each representative is asked to set up a structure within the dorm so that the freshmen can let them know about the conditions which affect them, particularly academic. The first item of business at each meeting of the Council is to bring any problems of the freshmen to theattentionof the Council and Dr. Hofman. For example, if fresh­men in general are having problems with a certain professor, Dr. Hofman explained, the professor and perhaps the head of his department will be asked to meet with the Council so that any difficulties any be remedied. 
2. The second function, to report individual situations that are particularly good or bad for fresh­men. is more or less included in the first, Hofman said. 
:3. To evaluate plans considered for the future to the Freshman Year of Studies. Currently suggestions are being made by the Co~n_cil concerning a major revtston of the curriculum of the Freshman Year. 
4. 
To make recommendations for changes or new programs that will improve conditions for freshmen. One of the first projects for the Council will be an evaluation of the material sent to freshmen during the summer, the Academic Guide and information on the guidance testing program. Freshmen will also take part in setting up the breakfast for the parents weekend on the date of the Army game. 

5. 
To provide the opportunity to develop leadership within the class, Dr. Hofman said that he will preside over the meetings, par­ticularly the ones dealing with academics. However it will not b~ his responsibility to call the meetings. The chairman of the Council, who will be elected in the near future has the power to call a meeting at any time on any sub­


ject, man explained. 
Hofman said that the ef­fectiveness of the Council, as in any other organization, depends upon the members. Freshman two years ago initiated action which protects sophomores from the off-
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

campus lottery Hofman explained. 
The Council will hold its next meeting at Freshman Learning Resource Center in Brownson Hall at noon, October 2. 
Members of this year's Council are: 
Alumni -Jim Coyne, room 123, phone 1025 · Badin -Norma Reyes, room 343, phone 6994 Breen-Phillips -Cori Ching, room 127, phone 1250 Cavanaugh -Jim Aubry, room 328, phone 1501 Dillon -Chad Tiedmann, room 332, phone 1809 Farley-Mary Jordan, room 324, phone 6834 Fisher -Tom Farrel, room 328, phone 3030 Flanner -George Lucas, root!' 815, phone 1167 Grace -Tim Malley, room 1103, 
phone 1791 Holy Cross -James Russel, room 206, phone 3126 Howard-Bill Scott, room 106, phone 6245 Keenan -Steven Jones, room 308, phone 3316 Lyons -Mary Grady, room 218, phone 7895 Morrissey -Jim O'Brien, room 310, phone 3573 Pangborn -Kevin Dickerson, room 019, phone 3698, 8311, 8314 St. Edward's -Regis Haid, room 119, phone 8785 Sorin -Dennis Crowley, room 225, phone 8511 Stanford -Steve Clarke, room 431, phone 8765 Walsh-Pat Dermody, room 310, phone 8007 Zahm -Jay Brandenburger, room 309, phone 8976 Off-Campus -Cathy Barrett, 512E. Ang~la Blvd., phone 232-9176. 
Need 2 to 4 tix, Pitt and-or Miami. Call 111\ark, 3620. 
Need rider to Kent State, Ohio, Friday afternoon. Call Bob, 1152. 
Want,~d: two girls lo share large 15 room house, family room and kitchen privileges, $100 per mo. 
Phone 256-0062. 
PERSONALS 

Barbi'~ (wildwoman of LeMans): Mystery woman of my life and goddess of my dreams! 1 wait for your next late nile calL 
Ron 
To the· Nutcrackers: Our "~;uite" next weekend? Derrarie and QB 

To Anne, Sally, Cindy, Sheri, 
Georgette, Liz, Jeanne: 

Pleasl! give some sign of 
forgiveness. 
Marl' 
NOTICES 

The K of C will have a first degree initiation tonite at 6.30. New members are welcome to join NOW. 
HOCKE:Y GAME: THE CAMPUS VIEW CRUNCHIES VS. THE FLANNER FROGS. WED OCT 2, 
11:00 PiVI AT THE ACC. CAMPUS VIEW AND STONERIDGE RESIDENTS WHO WANT TO PLAY BUT HAVEN'T SIGNED UP YET, CALL CLIFF AT 272­9895. 
TOM'S UNIVERSITY STAN­DARD J~T IRONWOOD & STATE ROAD 23 WILL GIVE YOU A FREE III.D. GLASS WITH A FILL· UP. 
TALISMAN AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES, DANCES, CONCERTS, & PREGAME PERFORMANCES. CALL 272-9895 FOR IN­FORMATION. 
TICKETS FOR THE L YNYRD SKYNYFID-HYDRA CONCERT OCTOBER 1 AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
Money? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $1~i0. Basement of LaFor­tune, daily, 11:1512:15. 
Euphoria records, lowest price for all records, including imports and cutouts pi us weekly specials. 234­6535. 
Free: 3 puppies. One, 6 months old. Others, 3 mos. Call 234-3730. 
Head Start needs volunteers tor its morning class sessions. Students are needed to teach economically disadvantaged pre-school children in the Head Start program in South Bend. Head Start's orientation meeting ""ill be Tuesday, Oct. 1, 
7:00 pm at the Knights of Columbus. If there are any questions, please contact Michael Fitzsimmons at 8549. 
Make an easy $200-$300 by an­swering your home phone between Nov. 1-10. No solicitation involved. Married ccuple preferred. Single female also acceptable. Write and tell me about yourself (include phone number). Wolfgang Pietsch, 420 Bancroft, Rockford, IlL 61107. 
Need 2 to 4 tickets tor Rice game. Pat, 272-5459. 
In desperat1! need of 4 GA tickets for the Miami game. Please call Rich, 6981. 
Nickie's, green windbreaker . "Jack Daniel's Old No. 7." Call 289-3945 or 283-3439. 
Lost: brown lealher wallet. Contains all I D's. Please return Reward. Call Trace. 234·1889. 
FOR SALE 2 Mich. State lix. Call Brenda, 4260, or Mary Ellen, 5155. 
'69 VW: AM-FM stereo, excellent cond. Best offer. Call after 8 pm, 283-3639. 
WANTED Bass guitarist needed; lop money; no novices. 234-5320 after 5. 
Need riders to K itchener, Ontario. Oct. 4. Call 4604 after 6 pm. 
Need 1 ticket to Michigan State. Call Mary, 7889. 
-------·----··--­

Wanted: 8 tickets to Miami game. Call 255-7034 between 10:00 and 5:00. 
Desperately need ridE' lo St. Louis Oct. 10-11. Will share expenses. Call Kevin, 8730. 
----------·--­

Wanted: 2 GA tix tor Pitt. Call Larry, 288-7375. 
Desperately need 1 GA ticket tor Rice and 4 tor Pitt. Call Beth, 5144. 
Wanted: two (2) GA tickets tor Miami. 289-4303. 
Desperately need lwo GA tix for Army. Call Rahj, 1612. 
Need ride lo Tulsa Oct. break. Expenses shared. Joe, 283-1205. 
Wanted: 2 tickets to Mich. State game. Desperate! Call 8143. 
Desperately need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Dan, 1739. 
---------·---­

Need ride to Lexington, Friday, October 4. Call Phil. 8436. --------·-·----­
Wanted: one student ticket for Rice game. Call Liz, 8144. 
-----------· ------­

Wanted: general admission tix tor Miami game. Call Jerry, 232-6004 before 4 pm, 233-6160 after 10 pm. 
---------·-·---·-­

Need six Miami tickets. Pay top dollar. 272-9622. 
Desperately need GA tix tor any home game. Don, 1213. 
Need 4 Michigan St. tickets. Call 3683. 
Wanted: 2 Rice GA fix and 4 Army GA tix. Call John or Kathy, 282­1568. 

Dr. Hofman: points out that it is necessary for hall presidents to take important action 

CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. '7-l Gen'I Features Corp. 
ACROSS 1 Complacent 5 Andy or Esther 
13 Ancient dagger:Var. 
14 Turning in an indicated direction 
16 Little one: Fr. 17 Alexander's 
birthplace18 Winglike19 Welsh symbol20 Out of place21 -Aviv 22 Card game23 Cubic meters 24 Temporary 
stoppage 26 Swing around 28 Swag29 Spray34 Burden 35 Playground
item 36 Port of Israel 37 Helper39 Brightness40 Musical instru­
ment 41 Thread 42 .Japanese name 
for Korea 46 Marble: Dial. 

4 7 Harriman, to 
friends 49 Rowed 50 Jonathan's 
father 52 Was skilled in 53 Unusual 
people55 Framework 56 Southern state 57 Wish well to 58-Bars 59 Withered 
DOWN 1 Bony frames 2 Authorof "Peyton Place" 3 To j.oin: Fr. 4 Obtain 5 Certain Iibera­tionists 6 "Dies -," old Latin hymn 7 Partner of a promise8 Great general9 Composed10 Expiate 
11 Important work-51 Solar disk 
er 12 Marsh bird 13 Brief dispute 15 Narrow ship 
channels 19 Edge 22 Fawkes 23 What some 

Masses are 25 Although: Lat. 26 Part of 1 Down 27 Blue serge suit 
problem28 Snake 29 Hit hard 30 Stadium sounds 31 Northern 
islander 32 Type of poetry33 Decade 35 Stupefy 38 Wintt.r sports­

man 39 Brother 41 Small: Dial. 42 Price 43 Detestable things 44 Praying figure 45 Cassia plant46 Thought at 
length 48 Certain sheep50 Elam's capital 
52 Vegetable54 CIA prede­cessor 55 TV network 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: 1 big black collie, 4 white paws. "Rex" miss 'em! 289-3365. 
Lost: brown leather purse in back of the Library Bar 9-19. If found please call 4266. No questions asked. 
Lost: hard black glass case with gold wire-rimmed glasses inside. Reward. Call Brian at 287-3586. 
Lost: $225.00 cash between Keenan-Fieldhouse; Fieldhouse­O'Shag; Fieldhouse­Administration Bldg. Large reward. Call 3368. 
Lost: dark green billfold. Valuable 
ID's. Lost in c 3. -----~ -­

Lost: silver and turquoise bracelet. Has great sentimental value. Reward. Please call 4979. 
Thanks. 

Found: Thursday night at 
Marge's Beauty Salon I 1822 N. John!;on 
Phone 233-1 035 
"Tomorrow's 1-birstyles Tocloy" 
-~ ...... 4 .. • • •• • 
Ir 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
Tuesday, October 1, 1974.
.. 8 the obs.,.. 


Soccertecmnreaches .500; 
•


WlDS, ties over weekend 
by John DeCoursey 
club, will be out for the season.
penalty kick when the shot
Notre Dame's soccer tearrupped Terry Finnegan led the attack
bounced off the pole.

its record over the .500 mark to 3-2-aginstiUPUias he scoredbothg~ls
After this, both teams moved the 
for the Irish. He scored the first
1 with a tie and win last weekend. 
ball up and down the field without
The Irish tied Purdue Friday 1-1 on· goal midway t.l'trough the first half 
much trouble .. Purdue had several 
on a shot from the middle. The
Carter Field and beat the 
breakaways by fullback Shaun 
second goal came late in the first
University of Indiana-Purdue 
Carroll and halfback Tom Ber­
half on a penalty kick.
University at Indianapolis 2-0 on 
nardin prevented a score. 
Sunday. . IUPUI had a few chances to
With twelve minutes left in the 
score as the Irish offense and
Against Purdue, the Insh .h.ad 
game, Purdue scored when the ball 
defense, led by Mike Crehan, Steve 
numerous scoring opportumbes 
got behind the Irish fullbacks. The 
Roche and JohnGallokept the ball 
during the first halC,.but all their 
Irish had a good chance to score 
on · IUPUI's side of the field for
shots were wide or hig!J, The 
with five minutes left, but the 
most of the game.

Boilermakers were alw~vs on the 
Purdue goalie made an excellent 
The B tea--: beat Marian last
defensive as Notre Damekept the 
save. Purdue had two final 
Thursday2-0 The Irish goals were
ball on the Purduesideof the field. 
chances to score but goalie Mark 
seored by Mik2 Flynn and John
With 15 minutes left in the h<~.lf, 
Klein preserved the tie with 
Piano.

TeiTY Finnegan scored the first 
several good saves. 

Commenting on the team's
goal of the game on a penalty kick. 
During the game the Irish suf­
progress, Shaun Carroll, captain of
After this goal the Irish attack 
fered a key loss when Bob Ralph, 
the team said,"our short game is
began to let up and Pur~ue be~an 
fullback, received a knee injury. 
getting better with more controlled 
to come alive. Fifteen mmutes mto 
Ralph, the president of the soccer 
passes. The defense is getting
the second half, Purdue i'nissed a better and the offense is jelling. Each game seems to be an im­provement. 
The Irish will play Nor­thwestern, Saturday at 7:30 on The Irish soccer team under the lights at Cartier Field. The soc~er
The Irish Eye 
Cartier Field. On Tuesday, the men evened their record this weekend with Purdue, and are lookingIrish will play Goshen College at forward to some good matches this weekend. Goshen.
'Keekend Results
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!'5.:!~::::::::::::::::::::::! 
The Irish weren't the only unbeaten team that came out of last Saturday's action with a blemish on their record. For Darrel Royal's Longhorns, .John Jardine's Ba~gers, Frank Kus~'s Sun Devils, Johnny Majors' Panthers, Den~y Stolz s Spar~~ms and J1m 


Irish linkers down Purdue
Stanley's Cowboys, Saturday afternoon was JUSt as long as It was for Ara Parseghian's Irish. . . . Texas, Wisconsin, Arizona State, Pittsburgh, M1ch1gan State, and 
scores under 79 to work with is a In other action Sunday, Notre
Oklahoma State all left the prestigious ranks of the undefeated. . . by Bill Delaney 
coach's dream, and we had to Dame's "B" team lost to Purdue's
For Notre Dame opponents, with the exception of Southern Cal, M1am1 
throw out a 78, a score we could "B" 387-397, but the highlight of the
and Purdue it was also pretty dismal. Coach Noel O'Sullivan and his 
have definitely used a week ago match was the outstanding play of
Northwestern led things off with an impressive loss to the Nebraska Irish Golf Team opened their home 
aginst this same team. I am really Junior John Delaney. Delaney,
Cornhuskers 49-7. Unfortunately the Irish have already played. Johnny season Sunday afternoon against 
delighted with my boys--they have from Findlay, Ohio, is a newcomer
Pont's Wildcats. Another past foe and inconsistent team, Georgia Tech, Purdue and unlike their football 
really come of age." . to Notre Dame Golf this year. His 
was defeated by lowly Clemson 21-17. . counterparts, Notre Dame came 
Co-captains Jeff Burda and M1ke round of 74 rewarded him with
Looking ahead, the Michigan State Spartans, who e~tertam Notre away with an impressive victory 
Kistner provided some excitement medalist honors for the Irish.
Dame next weekend, looked like the Spa_rtans of old ':'nlll _they ran up over the Boilermakers, 377-390. 
for the afternoon with their "John's play Sunday proves to me
against John Sciarra and the UCLA Brums. The Cahformans handed Jim Culveyhouse and Eddie 
identical even par 35's on the back that he is capable of playing
State their worst defeat since 1922 beating them 56-1~. . Whelan led the Irish with totals of 
nine for totals of 76 and 77 collegiate golf. He'll provide fine
Rice went from o-2 to o-2-1 tying LSU 10-10. The Tigers kicked~ 27 yard 73 and 75, and John O'Neal and 
respectively. Kistner, who had a competition for my starters, and
field goal with three seconds left to manage the deadlock. The RICe Owls Bruce Jacobsen paced the 
he'II definitely get a shot to start."
fat 42 for the front nine, had trouble 
forced seven LSU turnovers during the course of the ball game but were Boilermakers with identical 76's 
said a pleased O'Sullivan.
staying in bounds for his front.
the victims of a 71 yard scoring drive in the waning moments of the fourth for the par-71 Burke Course. 
This Friday, the Irish will host quarter. t t " f I" On a day where the weather tree or bush or trap within a 100 the Notre Dame Invitational, with 
"All I know is that if there was any 
Army, with whom the Irish tangle on Oct. 19," 1os .o power.~ almost canceled the match, the 
yards of me I found it," said the six teams <Wayne State, DePaul,
California 27-14. Miami continued to be more than a flas~ m the pan, to Irish took advantage of the 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Wisconsin­
personable Kistner.

quote middle guard Ruben Carter. TheHurricanesremamed undefeated elements in their play. 
While Water, and Indiana State)
Coach Joe Campbell of the
by downing Tampa 28-26. . . . . . Culveyhouse, Whelan and fresh­vying for the title. "I'm really
Boilermakers had nothing but
Navy had a cliffhanger ~ith Mic~Igan ~p m A~n Arbor. The Middies, man Rick Knee turned the front 
excited about this tournament cor
respect for the Irish. "It was a
NO's Nov. 2 opponent in Philadelphia, lo&t m the fmal seconds 52-0. . nine one-i>ver, handily beating 
there is some fine competition, and 
good match--Notre Dame has a
John McKay's Southern California ~rojans ca,me back from an openmg their Boilermaker opponents. we'll have our hands full." said
very formidable team. Burda and 
game Joss to Arkansas and dropped Pittsburgh s Panthers.I6-7.. Pitt was Knee posted a 76 Sunday, a dif­
O'Sullivan. The Invitational
Culveyhouse have really come ~n
out in front 7-3 unti Anthony Davis capped an 80 yard dnve With a _two ference of 12 strokes from his 
begins at 11, and some exceptional
since last year. The course was m
yard scoring plunge six minutes into the final quarter. So~homor~ Vmce inaugural collegiate performance play will be displayed by the Notre 
fine shape, and we've got nothing
Evans iced it for SC with a 13 yard run arc;mnd left end with a mmu.te to against Purdue at Lafayette. Dame Linkers.
to com plain about."

play. Tony Dorsett, Pit_t's answer to Davis, was held to 59 yards m 15 "I really felt great after the first carries, the lowest of h1s career. . nine," commented the freshman The Air Force Academy Falcons were agam shot down losing to from Wilmington, Delaware. "I 
St. Mary's tennis temn
Wyoming's Cowboys 20-16. The Irish play Air Force on Nov. 23. started out with a double-bogey on The Irish Eye's top twenty: 10, but I really wanted to do goo~ so I turned it on. If I keep on Im­Weekend Results proving consistently each week, 

defeats Evcmsville 6-3
No. Position last week 
I'll be happy and I hope Coach
I.) Ohio State 3-0 Beat SMU 28-9 Barbara Timm, handed her op­
2 O'Sullivan will be too." by Kathi Paterno
2. l Oklahoma 2-0 Beat Utah State 72-3 ponent a 10-2 defeat, followed by
3 Culveyhouse, from Herrivile,
3.) Michigan 3-0 Beat Navy 52-0 Victory was the word for the team mates Louise Purcell, 10-1,
5 Indiana, had perhaps his fin~t SMC tennis team Saturday af­
4. l Alabama 3-0 Beat Vanderbilt 23-10 Lynn Griffin, 10-5, Sheila Fin­
4 round of the fall. After his
5.) Nebraska 2-1 Beat Northwestern 49-7 ternoon. They upped their record neran, 10-4 and Ann Houser, 10-6. 
6.) usc 1-1 Beat Pittsburgh 16-7 9 medalist honors against Purdue 2-1 by defeating the University of Co-captain Ann Houser teamed
8 last Friday, Jim was very con­
7.) Notre Dame 2-1 Lost to Purdue 31-20 Evansville women's squad, 6-3. with Maribeth Vieha for a 10-5 
8.) Arizona 3·0 Beat New Mexico 15-10 1 fident for the encounter here at A threat of rain moved the match doubles victory.
7 Burke. "I've played against
9. l Texas A&M 3-0 Beat Washington 28-15 to the indoor courts of the nearby Coach Mark Peterson felt his 
10.) Texas 2-1 Lost to Texas Tech 26-3 13 practically all of the Purdue team, Mishawaka racquet club where St. team showed improved strength 6 and I knew that if we had lost by a
II.) Miami 2-0 Beat Tampa 28-26 Mary's took five of the six singles and was ready for a busy up­
14 single stroke (384-383) down there, 
12.) Pittsburgh 2-1 Lost to USC 16-7 events and one of the three coming week. Saturday, October
12 we stood a great chance to defeat 
doubles.

13. l Illinois 3-0 Beat Washington St. 21-19 5 SMC will travel to Hanover
unranked them up here. My round bore out
14.) Arkansas 2-1 Beat Tulsa 60-0 The number one SMC player. College of Indiana and Sunday,
16 what we had to do."
15. l Tulane 3-0 Beat West Virginia 17-14 October 6, the Notre Dame
19 Culveyhouse's two-ove 73 
flr,..,.k ~etl•ng Set
16. l Penn State 2-1 Beat Iowa 27-0 women's squad will host St. Mary's 
18 featured some fine putting and ~ &&.-;r
17.) Wisconsin 2-1 Lost to Colorado 24-21 for a rescheduled match, at 11:00
short iron play on his behalf. "I
18.) Arizona State 2-1 Lost to Missouri 9-0 11 a.m. behind the A.C.C.
17 putted fine, and I was really d
19.) Minnesota 3-0 Beat TCU 9-7 
unranked pleased to make the turn one-for Wednes ay
20. l UCLA 1-1-1 Beat Michigan State 56-14 
unranked over " said Culveyhouse. "I feel 
Hockey bus trip
that'I've been playing well, but 


and the worst ten: I'm not getting enough practice Coach Faley would like to extend The Blue Line Club is sponsoring throughout the week." an invitation to all interested track a bus trip to the Notre Damme­Coach O'Sullivan was ecstatic candidates to attend an in­
1.) Wake Forest did not play I Wisconsin away hockey series 
over the victory. "We now have formation meeting Wednesday,
2.) Columbia Lost to Lafayette 15-0 2 October 25th and 26th. The cost is
the competitive and psychological October 1, Athletic and Con­
3.) Virginia Tech Lost to Houston 49-12 3 $28.00 per person, which includes
edge that I've been working on for vocation Center -4:00 p.m. first
4.) Army Lost to California 27-14 4 gamme tickets, transportation,
over a year. It took us a while to floor conference or film room (C­
5.) Utah Lost to Oregon 23-14 5 motel room, and a box lunch on the
get accustomed to the weather (the 14) . The agenda for the meeting
6.) Utah State Lost to Oklahoma 72-3 unranked bus rides. The trip departs at noon 
temperature Sunday was in the will include: fall track, indoor­
7.) Northwestern Lost to Nebraska 49-7 9 Friday the 25th and returns Sun­
40's throughout the match), but we outdoor track schedules, and in­
8.) Southern Mississippi Lost to Mississippi 2G-14 10 day the 27th. Anyone interested in 
9.) Indiana Lost to Kentucky 28-22 8 did, and the scores were bett~r troduction of assistant Coach Joe this Blue Line trip should call Kenthan I expected. To have s~, ,Piarte. , . . , , .
10.) Tulsa Lost to Arkansas 60-0 unranked Moon at 234-9574. 






