


Oa The Inside 
t'"ood co-op 
...page 3 
Auto thefts 
...page 11 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 57 

Senior Club fate discussed 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Repo"er 
Dean of Students John Macheca, Assistant Vice President of Student Mfairs Father Terry Lally and Dr. Robert Ackerman, Director of Student Affairs said Wednesday the purpose of the Senior Club was to provide a clean place for seniors to gather and socialize. 
"Any member of the senior class should feel free to go there alone or with a guest who is 21," said Macheca in an interview with The Observer. 
"The club should be a sustantial place for the senior class, something that they can take pride in." 
For example, Ackerman said thatstudentsfelt there was no place to sit and talk on campus. Upstairs in the club a section was provided for socializing. 
It was pointed out that the nature of the place had changed from last year due mainly from student complaints. "Students came to us with their complaints and we responded to their <:oncerns," said Lally. 
"People with a higher notion of what a Senior Club should be decided not to open their doors to the march. It's an example of something studentshaVlut time into something and wouldn't let it be used for something other than for what it was intended," said Ackerman. 
On the dismissal of manager William "Butch" Smith, Macheca commented that certain responsibilities were to be performed and if they weren't the internal structure must be recon­sidered. "It was a personnel thing and personnel changes shouldn't go to length in a newspaper," commented Macheca. · 
Macheca said that Student Mfairs did something for the seniorclass that they had in­dicated they wanted done with their help as beginning. In order to reach that goal, policy decisions had to be made. "It's important for seniors to know what we're trying to do," he said. 
Lally said the newly appointed co-managers, Jim Sweedyk and Jim Shanahan, would do a good job. "They understand what kind of club it should be," said' Lally. 
Ackerman interjected, "Ideally, the senior club should be for seniors only. No un­derclassmen should be admitted." He explained that it would be unfair if a freshman girlto goin because she was dating a senior guy. Other freshmen couldn't get in and eventually the club would have to open up to the entire student body. 
Lally said that those using fake ID's were not living up to the ideal. "We're operating the club straight but that's the way we're operating," he commented. 
Ray Capp, a committee member of the bar's renovation, said, "We didn't want another Nickie's or Corby's. We wanted a coffeehouse­type place where you can take adateor see some friends." 
Capp explained thecommitteetried to fix the place up to look nice and convey the idea. They also wanted to keep the crowds dow"l. 
"Mter it had been opened awhile, I visited the club and found it dirty and filthy. The paneling was done, things were kicked in, the curtains weren't uty and the shutters were off," Capp related. 
He was also surprised when Smith was dismissed. "When we were done renovating, we assumed our work had stopped and management would take over the cleaning and keeping up of 
.Thursday, December 
Flanner or Grace may be women's dorms next year 
by Paul Young and Terry Keeney 
University Housing Director Fr. John Mulcahy yesterday proposed converting either Falnner or Grace Halls into a women's dorm to a{!commodate an additional200 to 300 women expected on campus next year. Under Mulcahy's plan Farley Hall would become a men's dorm again. 
In a letter to resident hall rectors, Mulcahy said that this proposal was only one of several alternative solutions to the problem of housing a larger women's enrollment. 
Final decision on the matter rests with University Presidnet Fr. Theodore Hesburgh with the advice of the Officers of the University. 
Brother Just Paczesny, vice president for Student Affairs and an office of the University, emphasized that the conversion of Flanner or Grace is only one solution currently being considered. 
"Fr. Mulcahy merely gave possible solution s and he was seeking ideas from hall staffs on this matter," Paczesny said. "In no way have we come to a final decision on this matter." 
Best option 
The conversion of Flanner or Grace into a women's dorm is favored by Mulcahy as the bestamong three options he believes open to the University. 
According to Mulcahy, the other two options are to force women to move off campus by including them in a housing lottery or to find alternate housing on campus for the additional women. 
Mulcahy said that the lottery for women "is a strong possibility, an option that can and will be considered." As for alternate housing, Mulcahy indicated that at least "two buildings are now under investigation as sources of additional space." 
Paczesny noted another option open to the university. He proposed that the university construct modular buildings to serve as dormitories. 
"Another possible option is to build on university land some modular building like Campus View or Crestwood sponsored by the university," Paczesny said. ­
Transfer men to Farley 
Under Mulcahy's proposal the women of Farley 
:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;:;:::;;::_s:~":!;!:;s.~~"8:-:::;z,.~::::::::::.o::::>,.~:::::."*.~'!..(.~:X::,..~~"8'!...~~ 
1·Say goodbye to the old and welcome the new. Mary ) Short, a Notre Dame cheerleader for two yean, Is , getting married over the Christmas break and leaving the squad. Her replacement will be Janet Corcoran. 
Hall, about 244 in number, woUld be transferred next 
year to one of the two towers. The returning residents 
from either Flanner or Grace numbering about 500 
would be moved to Farley. The difference in num­
bers in the two halls would be resolved by seniors 
graduating and the non-admittance of freshman into 
Farley for one year, Mulcahy said. 
Mulcahy noted the advantages of choosing one of 
the towers as the sixth women's dormitory. 
"The towers would make excellent women's dorms .as they would require practically zero in renovation fees, excepting perhaps the addition of a laundry room," Mulcahy said. 
He also cited the large number of beds available in 
Flanner or Grace as a factor in planning future 
women admissions. 
Mulcahy noted that the decision to admit 380 fresh­
man women next year is the source of the housing 
problems. According to Mulcahy, of 125 senior 
women graduating this year only 75 are living on 
campus. Thus the university must find about 300 beds 
for the new women students next year. 
Five-year coeducation plan 
According to Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to 
the provost, the goal of the five-year University 
coeducation policy is to have a female enrollment of 
1500 by 1976. Cureently 1,138 women are enrolled as 
undergraduates. 
Jones said that although there has never been formal talk for a sixth women's dorm, university !officials have been considering housing possibilities since last spring. 
Jones argued that the conversion of another male dorm to a women's dorm is "the least desired of many solutions which won't solve many problems and might create a few more," she said. 
Of the three options open to the university to house women next: year (forcing women off campus, con­verting ariotehr men's dorm, or searching for alternate hou~ing), Jones favors the last solution. 
Jones believes that final decision on the question will be reached by January. ·She said that the Of­ficers ofthe University will consider many options to solve the problem of residential availability including proposals to.use mobile homes to house students. 
"We're at a position now where we don't really have the money to build a new dorm and wish we 
did," Jones said. 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON UPI -The House Education and Labor Committee Wednesday unanimously approved an emergency $2 billion public service jobs bill to combat rising unemployment. 
The money, to be pumped into city and state governments to provide needed public service jobs, in areas of severe unemployment, would be authorized for one year. 
The measure also contains provisions to broaden unemployment compensation benefits in hard hit areas of the nation. 
The bill was described by committee staffers as a "stop gap emergency one year effort to pump more money out right away for public service jobs." 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. (UPI) -Striking miners have ratified a new contract with the coal industry and United Mine Workers President Arnold Miller will announce the end of the 23-day strike Thursday, UPI has learned. 
The miners should return to work early next week, according to several high union sources who said a celebration was already under way at UMW headquarters in Washington Wednesday night. 
A union source' earlier told UPI that the contract ending the strike, which was one more blow to an already reeling American economy, had been ap­proved. 
CHICAGO <UPD -A federal grand jury Wednesday indicted 10 former and present lllinois legislators and eight other persons on charges of conspiracy, bribery extortion and mail fraud. ' 
Seven of the legislators were charged with taking bribes ranging from $200 to $4,000 from the ready mix cement industry, then voting for a bill the industry wanted passed. 
Three were charged with extorting $1,500 from the car rental industry in return for killing a bill the in­dustry did not want passed. Both the alleged schemes took place in 1971 and 1972. 

an campus taday 
4:00----seminar, "dna damage-repair studies with chinese hamster cells", conf. rm. in Rad. lab. 
4:00p.m.----colloquium, "incremental vs. one-trial learning: a pseudo-Issue", in room 117, haggar hall. 
7:30 
p.m.---lecture, "g.b. shaw" by sr. jean lene c.s.c., in regina south aud. 

7:30 
p.m.----lecture, dr. ahrens speaks at zahm. 


8:00 
p.m.----meeting, ladies of notre dame, in lib. lge. 

8:00 
p.m.----lecture, honorable charles range!, u.s. house of representatives, (dem.-n.n.) speaking on 'critical Issues for minorities in the mid-'70's", at cce. 


-pm & lOpm---film, "the way we were" in eng. aud., 
$1. 
-
,----------------­
1 PRESENTING: : the Thursday night special 
t 
12" pizza --$1.50
t 
Pitcher Beer Nite
t 
t 
Eat, drink, and be entertained by live music nightly !except Tuesday) AT 
t 
t VVHITE HOUSE INN1 
t Now Playing
t ••••••••••••••••••••• 
: RED PONEY !
t 
···················~
t 
2839 N 5th
t 

i 
t
hO 
cover f 
charge 
11 
t
t Just 8 mi. north of t~e state line. 683-9842 Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 5 3 miles. t
t I 
·-----------------• 
House sends budget reduction 
to Senate lor final 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -The House, invoking for the first time anti-impoundment powers Congress gave itself earlier this year, voted Wednesday to require that President Ford spend $540 million of the $657.6 million he sought to cut from his budget. 
The House passed by voice vote and sent to the Senate for final action an Appropriations Committee recommendation that Ford be allowed to reduce his budget by at least $117 million. The figure did not include an estimated $16.2 million the House voted to allow him to cut from appropriations to finance col­lege housing. 
But House leaders said the action means the President will have to spend the other $540 million he had sought to cut from appropriations for the Rural Electrification Adminis­tration and the agricultural conservation program. More than $455.6 million of that amount had been appropriated for REA alone. 

Freshman Council 
elects officers before break 
Members of the Freshman Advisory Council elected a slate of officers at a social gathering held at the Flanner Towers before Thanksgiving Break. The council, consisting of one Freshman from each of the twenty residence halls, selected Jim Russell of Holy Cross Hall as Chairman, and George Lucas of Flanner Hall as Secretary. · 
The two officers are responsible for all Council transactions, meetings, and agenda items. Their term will last until the end of this academic year. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame ~d St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S9 per semester ($16 per year> from The Observer Box~ Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
ThefTrial BillY Jack 
Starring DELORES TAYLOR 
and 
TOM LAUGHLIN IPGI 
EVERY EVE. AT 8:00 

L-___________ 
It was the first use of the Impoundment Control Act Con­gress passed earlier in the year to prevent the President from refusing to spend money it has appropriated. 
Both houses must approve ' within 45 days a President's request to withhold or reduce 
· appropriated funds, or he has to go ahead and spend them. Congress has until the end of the current session, targeted for Dec. 19, to act on Ford's $4.6 billion reduction request. 
Wednesday's action did not include $4.6 billion cut Ford requested Nov. 26 in an effort to fight inflation. 
Tuesday, Ford criticized Con­gress for contributing to a "growing sense of frustration in the White House" in its efforts to deal "with the sagging economy." 


approval 
In three separate "budget rescission" messages through Nov. 13, Ford asked permission to cut funds Congress appro­priated for specific programs of the Agriculture, Housing and 
Urban  Development  and  Interi­ 
or  Departments and  the  Atomic  
Energy Commission.  ·  

Besides the college housing funds, the House Wednesday allowed the following cuts: 
-$4.89 million for develop­ment of roads and trails by the Bureau of Land Management. 
-$10.46 million for construc­tion of roads and trails by the National Park Service. 
-$51.6 million for roads and trails development by the Forest Service. 
-$40 million earmarked for improvement of existing air­ports in the Appalachian region. 

Have a BIG appetite? "'. s\"\' 
. 
Azar's BIG BOYRESTAURANT 
52860 U.S. 31 North 
TRY OUR COUNTRY FRIED Q-IO<EN ~SPECIALS 0\llUESDAYAND THURSDAY) 
Phone 272-9720 for carry-out service 
w I I­
NO 
SMC 

THEATRE 
1974-75 
Our Ninth Season 

RESERVATIONS: 284-4176 (Business Hours) 283-7054 (Show Nights) 
Student • Faculty ND-5MC Staff $1.50 

A premiere production of this comedy-intrigue In the absurd manner by ND-graduate Christopher Ceraso. 
Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00P.M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 





ND Counseling Center to· host Open House 

by Bob Radziewicz staff reporter 

The Notre Dame Counseling Center will host an open house on Saturday, December 7, in their new offices on the fourth floor of the Administration building, ac­cording to Dr. Sheridan McCabe, director of the center. 
"The purpose we're holding this open house is to increase the awareness of the campus that our service exists and is readily available to everyone," McCabe 
More violence strikes Ethiopia 
ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia (UPI) -Four explosior.s hit Addis Ababa Monday and small arms fire echoed through the streets of the Ethiopian capital. 
At least 12 people were hurt, police said. 
The military government blamed the violence on follow­ers of recently executed public officials and aristocrats. 
A government spokesman said five persons were hurt, one seriously, when an explosion badly damaged the city hall, and seven others injured by a blast which blew out windows at the Wabi Shebelle Hotel. 
ND food co-op to open short I y 
by Catherine Brown staff reporter 
Afood co-{)p designed to meet the needs of both the on and off­campus students of Notre Dame should be operating in about two weeks. 
Steve Shankel, an off-campus senior who is involved in setting up the CO-{)P for Student Government, described the operation as "still in the planning stage." 
"We have a building, and we have made contacts with the distributors. Everything is on the verge, but not quite ready," ex­plained Shankel. 
Student Government is presently appealing to the Office of Student Affairs for funds for the co-op beyond those allocated in the Student Government budget 
"In the long run, we hope the co­op will be self-supporting and making enough of a profit to pay the overhead and the rent, but initial funding will come from the administration and Student Government," said Shankel. 
The co-{)p's location on South Bend A venue across from Campus View Apartments is only five minutes walking distance from campus, making it accessible to on-campus students as well. "We hope it will be used by on-campus and off-campus students, and we hope to offer more than just food," stressed Shankel. 
Shankel's interest in food co-{)ps 
stems from the successful 
operation of one at Kent State 


~ndou' 
241 Dixieway North 
1 mi. north of ND 
guitar 
1 

headquarten.~· instrucUOii 
Everything for the guitarist 
"Drastic action will be taken against those elements sabotag­ing the present popular move­ment in an attempt to plunge the country into confusion and chaos," a government state­ment said. 
"It has been established that these elements were followers of the nobility and top officials of the former regime who were executed for crimes against the Ethiopian people." 
The violence coincided with an official announcement that a group of former government leaders would go on public trial Wednesday, 11 days after 60 said. "Also, since we've moved into our new office in Rm. 400, we felt the open house would be a good way of showing our facilities, staff and programs," the Counseling Center director added. 
McCabe explained that the in­formal gathering, which lasts from 1-5 p.m., will provide information concerning the Center's new mini­workshop in final exam preparation. The program, which runs from December 9 through December 11, will concentrate on three facets: anxiety 

University, near his hometown of on and off-campus students, which· Canton, Ohio. The student co-{)p should be in the mail in a few days, there was "supplying the students to determine if the CO-{)P is wanted with inexpensive items and and the needs of the students it will meeting a real need," commented serve. 1 · Shankel. 
Shankel attributed the co-{)p's, 

This interest prompted Shankel creation in part to "a lot of people to volunteer his services in setting in Business ~dministration who~ up a co-{)p at Notre Dame, along went out of thetr way to help us out,\ with his partner, Jim Wersching especially Professor Goulet, who and Off-campus Commissioner lent me six of his students to help Stan Cardenas. with surveying, researchfng 
Shankel mentioned a survey of 

etc." ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;:;~~~~~~~~ 
men'' ai• 1ty ng 
'en's hair Stylin 



~n-s'l(;i,.Bt'ltin 
WHATEVER THE STYLE IT'S A
• fl!.·e"'[]r,
§§·8600 a-." ·.· ----· 
~· -',\s\S
s\1 

HAIR CARE FOR ME 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA,IND. 4654~-­aristocrats and onetime civilian and military leaders were executed. 
Diplomats said the blasts could be the work of the Eritrean Liberation Front fight­ing for the independence of Ethiopia's northernmost provin­ce. 
The government is holding about 140 former officials, some of them relatives of deposed Emperor Haile Selassie, 82, himself a prisoner who has 
signed over his huge personal ·+:===:=::==i~=:::;~;;::::==========================+!
and family fortune, reputed to ~• W 
be more than one billion dollars, to the new rulers. 
McCabe also talked about the other programs offered by the Counseling Center. 
"We have divided the Counseling Center into three distinct programs," McCabe began. "First, there is the 'direct ser­veces' counseling, in which we offer educational and vocational )lanning sessions for students. rhis takes up about half our time," 1e noted. 
I 

RESERVATIONS
~ 
284-4176 
ALL SEATS

SMC 

THEATRE $.75 
for YOUNG PEOPLE
,( 
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST 
A New Drama for Yo~g People Based on r 
.the Beloved Fairy Tale ' December 7, 8,14,15 at 2:'00 :P::M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
"Then, we offer an 'indirect ;ervices' program that deals with particular personal problems of the in?ivi?ual. We ~lso offer group orgamzabonal semmars in topics like leadership," McCabe stated. session which discusses future goals of the individual and 
"Finally, there is the 'special services' section, offering programs such as the final exam 
preparation, a male-female communication seminar which began last year and a life-planning strategies that can be used in obtaining these," the Counseling Center director explained. 

The open house, co-hosted by .\1cCabe's associates, Dr. Paul Banikiotes and Dr. Thomas Merluzzi, welcomes St. Mary's students as well, although McCabe pointed out that since SMC has their own counseling program, "The two centers collaborate with each other whenever possible." The male-female communication program is co-sponsored by both counseling services, McCabe said. 
Refreshments will also be ser­ved. 


agreement -and apparently think I can say there was a "some degree of an arms race that he was surprised by the ny NICHOLAS DANILOFF won the sympathy of the Senate spirit of optimism -progress continuing, but the urgency will wave of congressional criticism 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Foreign Relations Committee. was made." be removed." over the Vladivostok accord. Secretary of State Henry A. After the two-hour closed Kissinger, in comments to Kissinger stressed that the "I'm surprized," he said, Kissinger launched an energetic session, Sen. John Sparkman, newsmen, conceded that the imposition of rigid ceilings on adding that the agreement offensive Wednesday to pro­D-ALA., who is expected to accord between President Ford the total number of bombers would be seen as "a very mote President Ford's Vladi­succeed Sen. J. William Fullb­and Soviet Leader Leonid I. and missiles the Soviet Union significant achievement <when) vostok strategic arms right as chairman, said: "I Brezhnev would probably allow and the United States possess, the figures are correctly 
as -well as a ceiling on the analyzed." 
missiles which can carry multiple warheads (MIRVs)

Student Governznent sponsors 
would eliminate the superpower "nightmare" that its adversary had suddenly vastly increased 
its strategic arsenal. "For the first time in 30 
off caznpus storage prograzn 
by Jim Donathen staff reporter 
Starve a thief for Christmas? Student government hopes its semester break storage program for off-campus students will do just that. 
Student Body President Patrick McLaughlin yesterday asked faculty and staff to store student belongings in their homes over the Dec. 21 to Jan. 13 vacation. 
In a letter mailed to faculty and staff members, McLaughlin wrote: 
"If you can spare an empty closet or a basement room for Christmas storage, I can guarantee it will be greatly ap­preciated. He stated th" store-at-

Santa nabs purse 
in suburban shopping center 
CINCINNATI <UPI) -"Stop or I'll shoot," yelled Santa Claus. 
Armed only with his jingle bells, Santa caught a purse snatcher at a suburban shop­ping center near here Tuesday. 
Santa, alias Arthur White, 35, was beginning his 11th season --the center's Santa and had just stood up to say goodbye to 

Christmas bazaar in LeMans to offer a "shoppper's paradise" 
by Mary Egan Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's Social Commission is sponsoring the "First Annual St. Nicholas Christmas Bazaar" in he LeMans lobby Friday, Dec. 6, from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
The bazaar offers an opportunity for individuals to sells things such as toys, cookies, candy, jewelry and crafts for their own profit,
explained Asst. Social com­
misioner Mary Ellen Vonesh. It also is an opportunity for Christ­mas shopping, she added. 

,, The bazaar is open to any 
1 
i BRIDGE-VU THEATER PRESENTS : :• THE NEW :• -' :• • KINGSTON TRIO!-• • 
I 
: BEGINNING THIS V\fEKEND :
• 
• 

: BRIDGE-VU THEATER : 
~ 
I 
i• U.S. 30 West, Valparaiso, Indiana i• [ ! (219) 462-0563 46383 i
• 
' ' ~ ~
. . 
student, administrator, or faculty member who wishes to sell something. People who know a craft, such _as candlemaking, macrame or jewelry, could take orders even though they may not have something made yet, added Vonesh. 
"We want to get more students involved in this," the assistant social commissioner said. 
Apt said she hopes the bazaar will be "a fun shopper's paradise.'' 
Prospective sellers may call Joan Apt at 4835 or Vonesh at 4175 by Wednesday evening. 
a child when he saw a teen­ager grab a woman's purse. 
"We must have run for nearly a mile through the shopping center," he said. "I lost my hat, glasses and beard after about 30 yards." 
"Stop or I'll shoot;" yelled White, apparently from instinct because he works as a security guard during the off season. 
student's risk program "will certainly be an improvement over our present leave-at-high; risk situation." 
McLaughlin urged interested faculty and staff to contact student government at 283-7668 before Wednesday, December 11. 
"The ra-sh of burglaries in the off-campus community is un­believable," said Frank Flanigan, student body vice-president. "Christmas time will be haven for thieves." 
Flanigan urged off-campus students to store valuable items such as stereos and televisions somewhere during the break. 
"With our starve a thief program, students can store .mything they want with the un­yesterday evening. 
"A lot of students probably havemade arrangements to store valuables in rooms on campus. But, there are some people who 


don't have access to on'-campus room," observed Flanigan. 
Student Government is trying to 

~~~.
Town & C'?untry _ :~::-~ · "If you can't locate someplace, help this group. 
Shopping Center _ . -;---,-!. call student government and we'll be more than happy to accomodate your needs," stressed Flanigan. 

snatcher 
I 
The suspect was finally caught, but escaped again and scaled a high fence. 
Santa, who said he was by 
then  completely  out  of  breath  
was  helped  by,  naturally  
er10ugh, Paul  one of Cain, 17.  his  helpers  - 

Cain, who had been taking pictures of children as they talked with Santa, helped in capturing the suspected robber a second time and held him for police. 





0-C STUDENTS 
STARVE A THIEF FOR CHRISTMASI 
Leave Valuables: Clothes, Books, Stereos, Radios and Appliances with Volunteer Staff and Faculty Families for the Christmas Break 
CALL STUDENT GOV'T (283-7668) THIS WEEK 
LEAVE NAME AND PHONE NUMBER IF INTERESTED 
tore at'"Your Own Risk".Rather Than Leaving "At High Risk"! 
The accord would limit the United States and Soviet Union to 2,400 missiles and bombers, of which 1,320 can be equipped with multiple warheads. 
Sen. Frank Church, 0-Idaho, told newsmen after the meeting that the accord was "very important" and offered "the first promise of getting the nuclear arms race under control." 
Sen. Stuart Symington, 0­Mo., similarly called the accord "meanin~ful and hopefu~~· 
Paperback books Magazines 

Novelty items Paraphernalia Original paintings Art supplies 

derstanding they are doing so at their own risk," said Flanigan. "It appears that there will be ample space to accomodate all students needs." 
Though some lettE:rs were not mailed until 4 p.m., student government had received several offers from faculty and staff by years of the nuclear age," Kissinger said, "fixed ceilings will exist and both sides will avoid the nightmare." 
Kissinger, who was reporting on Vladivostok,_ the Middle East, Cyprus and his recent trip to Peking, acknowledged 
Kissinger defends Soviet arms agreement 
' • ; • • • ., • "' • • • ~ :" • • "' '"' • r _.. • -• • .-• ' • •' • ~ 

InPirg releases local to 
by John DeCoursey staff reporter 
The Indiana Public Interest Research Group at Notre Dame <INPIRG l released a survey reportyesterdayon dangerous toys 
found in South Bend and Mishawaka toy stores. The report cited 18 potentially dangerous t oys. 
The survey was conducted by members of INPIRG, and the final 
Drinkers favor govern~nent control but not liquor rationing 
By ROBERT D. LURATI 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) ­Drinkers would like the govern­ment to do something about the problems of alcohol, but they don't want to be restricted in their freedom to imbibe, according to a study released Wednesday. 
Ninety per cent of Californi­ans endorse more government 
activity to care for drunks an~ keep tipsy drivers off the roads, 
"Tidal Basin Bombshell" to visit ailing Mills 
By Roger Norum 

NEW YORK <UPil -A sobbing Fanne Foxe said Tuesday evening she was going to . Washington 
Wednesday to visit Rep. Wilbur Mills at" Bethesda Naval Hospital. 
Miss Foxe, whose notoriety skyrocketed after a midnight ride 
with Mills that ended when she jumped I intO Washington'::; 
Potomac ~idal Basin, canceled her week-long New York engagement 
as a stripper at the 42nd Street Playhouse, because, she said, she had sprained her knee. 
Miss Foxe, whose real name is Annabel Battistella, said Mills, a 
Democrat from Arkansa[;, told here by telephone Monday night he was going into Bethesda Naval 
Hospital because "he didn't feel well." Mills enter~ the hospital Tuesday. 
"He's ill," she said, " and I do care for him very much, and I'm very upset about it." 
"I want to see him," Miss Foxe said, who was billed as the "Argentine Firecracker" prior to 
BROTHERS BRAUTWURST St. Mary's Coffee House Below Dining Room 
PEPSI 35ft PEPSI 
*****IF Y 0 U BUY TWO***** ~GET A 90Z. PEPSI FREE~
* WITH THIS AD * 

***************************** Open Daily Until .Midnight Friday & Saturday Until 2:00 A.M. 0 ·1 1 .197.4 .. 
report was written by Joseph E. Shickich, president of the ND 
Chapter and Mark J. Clark, treasurer. 
The report divided the toys into two categories: those that failed to meet the standards of safety established by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration(FDAl, and those not judged dangerous ac­cording to FDA standards but considered dangerous by INPIRG. 
Some of the toys found 
the study found. 
However, the researchers also found that when they started talking about specific 
.measures such as increasing taxes or rationing liquor, Californians objected. 
"Fifty-seven per cent of adults sampled are against making drinking more expen­sive by increasing alcohol 
taxes," the study said. "Seven­ty-five per cent are against 
the Washington incident, after which the billing was changed to "The Tidal Basin Bombshell." She said her husband was bringing her 
daughter to New York Wednesday so the child could fly home to Argentina for the holidays. 
"I can't go home to Washington until then but I want to seem him Mills," she said. 
Miss Foxe limped through two brief performances Tuesday as shouts of "Take it off" changed to boos and catcalls when she stripped only her bra and stayed on stage for only a few minutes. 
"I wanted to go on and apologize but they expected more for their money than I could do and there were more people waiting outside, too," she said tearfully. 
"Now I feel awful," she said. "I don't want all this attention. It was good up to a certain point but its gone too far beyond the limit." 
Crying, she said, "I just can't talk anymore." 
Olga LaBalnche, manager of 
Time Square theater where Miss 
Foxe was performing, said Miss 
"oxe was "very upset" when she 
1eard Mills had entered the 
hospital. 

dangerous were: a Raggedy Ann Travel "Make Up Kit," a Princess Phone with Moving Dial, a Zoo and Aquarium Bead Set, and "I'd 
Climb Walls for You" doll, a Star Trek Tracer Gun and a can of Silly String. 
Discussing the purpose of the report Schickich said "Our primary emphasis is to 'tell the consumers what toys are unsafe." 
"We want these toys," continued ' Schickich, "to be made out of 
rationing alcohol so that every­body could buy only a modest amount each month." 
The study  was  carried out  by  
Prof.  Don  Cahalan  of  the  
University  of  California  at  

Berkeley for the state legis­lature, which is often faced with measures relating to California's consumption of alcohol. 
"More Californians drink, and they drink more heavily than is true for the U.S. as a whole," the report said. 
Only 15 per cent of those surveyed said they had not drunk at all in the past year. One-third said they had gotten "tight" at least once, and 16 per cent admitted being under the influence at least once a month. 
Cahalan said the prevailing opinion seemed to be that the government should do some­thing to keep drunks out of automobiles, and undertake a campaign to educate young Californians on how to be "responsible" drinkers, rather than trying to stop them from indulging altogether. 
The public does not place a high priority on doing some­thing for the "bums and derelicts" on skid row, accord­ing to the study. 
THE PLAYBOY CLUB 
OF MIAMI 
® 

WELCOMES NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S TO FLORIDA 
ALL ND & SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY & ALUMNI V\JILL BE ADMITTED BY TELLING THE DOOR BUNNY "WE'RE THE FIGHTING IRISH." SHE WILL THEN ISSU YOU A CLUB KEY. (18 I.D. REQUIRED.) CASH 
TRANSACTIONS ONLY. 
The Playboy Club of Miami 7701 Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Florida 
305 751-7543 
~ 

"Our primary emphasis is to tell the consumer what t~ys are un­
safe," commented Schickich. materials that are safer. It wouldn't entail any great change in manufacturing." 
Schickich suggested possible alterations for some of the toys mentioned in the survey. "These 
doll clothes," he said, "could be replaced with fireproof material." <The report stated the dolls ignited when brought in contact with a match flame.) 
"The glass in the mirrors could be replaced with a material similar to tin foil, and the glass piggy bank could have been made out of plastic," Clark added. 
The survey was conducted the week of November 17th through 
FRIDAY7:00 9:30 MON-THUR 6:45 9:10 SAT & SUN 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 


lllOC~'l~t..~~ 
FRIDAY & MONDAY-THURSDAY 7:45 9:45 SAT.& SUN. 1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 9:45 


13uiler-t-iuuse r=lix 
Twin Theatres/100 CenterjMishaw~ka/255-9575 
the 23rd, and included 17 depart­ment, toy and drug stores in the area that sell childrens toys. The Notre Dame survey is part of a statewide survey being conducted by INPIRG. 
According to the report, a toy was declared dangerous if it was in one of five areas. Thea areas were: after being broken with minimal stress, the toy could cut a child easily ; the toy could be swallowed easily; clothing on the doll burned rapidly; toy guns shot projectiles at such a velocity that t~ey were a hazard to the eyes ; fmally, the toy was explosive under certain conditions and contained no age warning. 

-------------------~-----------~-­

Mexican 

lifestyle 
Dear Editor: 

The word "Mexico" conjures up various connotations in the North American mind. Most Americans picture a sunny desert filled with cacti and perpetually-dozing senores, with an occasional ban­dito waking up to pillage and plunder the unsuspecting Mexican laborer. 
As I sit here, freezing in my room, I feel compelled to dispel this image of Mexico. The Acapulco image of Mexico is about as representative of its weather as Chicago is representative of weather in the United States. Often, the students in the sophomore program of foreign study in Mexico City, wake up in unheated rooms only to come to the realization that, once again, it is "South Bend" outside. And, once again, we dress for winter in the early morning, only to have summer return by the start of the afternoon. 
One rarely encounters a Mexican enjoying a siesta. Many Mexicans put in a twelve-hour workday from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 
p.m. Various cities and villages outside of Mexico City do close up shop for an hour at mid-day. However, the workers do not go home to rest and escape the heat, but rather to enjoy a five-course meal, which is an essential part of their lifestyle.
However, these are rather minor aspects of Mexican civilization. The more subtle differences of the Mexican way of life prove to be the more interesting aspects of their civilization. 
The Mexican people are a believing and emotional people, constantly striving to revolutionize their lifestyles. They are sub­jected to the ever-present North American influence, whether through cinema, tourism or commercial products, which they find as threatening as overcasts skies. They are impressed with <yet, are afraid to get too close to) the individual success of American capitalism, while they fall back upon the security of socialism. 
The Mexicans believe in their 

lifestyle. They are a fun-loving 
and festive-<>riented people. They 
will create a reason to celebrate, if 
a reason doesn't already exist. It 
is not an unusual occurrence for a 
Mexican to spontaneiously begin 
dancing in the center of the town 
square, without the aid or guidance 
of Fran DeMarko. 
While his North American counterpart competes against 
DOONESBURY 
other Americans to "get ahead," the Mexican is confronted · by a much more forceful opponent, nature itself. On the weekends, college and professional athletes in the United States vie for the title of "winner." On Sunday afternoon in Mexico, however, the torero challenges the forces of nature, exemplified by the bull. Yet, these two vie for the title of "survivor." While North Americans race each , other in rush hour traffic, Mexicans daily challenge the mountains while driving. While the North American, as Octavia Paz aptly puts it, "wanders in an abstract world of machines, fellow citizens and moral precepts, the Valley of Mexico man feels himself suspended between heaven and earth, and he oscillates between contrary powers and forces, and petrified eyes, and devouring 
mouths." 
However, the day-to-day preoccupations are usually the main concern of the foreign abroad student in Mexico City, while Octavia Paz seems to rest in the subcunscious. I find myself wondering if I will again be a victim of cultural shock today. Will the language fail me, as I attempt to communicate to a store clerk who doesn't speak a word of English? Will I be able to squeeze into a Mexican bus, even though, five people are already hanging out the door. Is today the day they block off my street in order to set up the neighborhood markets? Does the school bus stop at the bakery today? Will Montezuma decide to take revenge upon my stomach? I find myself wondering if I have been here all my life or just 4 months. I find myself wondering when, if ever, I'll be able to revert back to my American customs. 
I find myself wondering. 
Maureen O'Brien Mazatlan 80 

· undermines the basic values upon which our social, religious and 


ray ramirez
political institutions are founded. 
I am not against intelligence­gathering agencies as such if they come under some form of public accountability. Although the ethics of secrecy in our public and private institutions needs to be discussed much more than it has to date, it appears obvious to me that secrecy in the CIA is designed as much to conceal violations of universally accepted human and political rights as it is to facilitate the objective of gathering data necessary to conduct an ac­ceptable and effective foreign policy. Furthermore, because of the nature and structure of the CIA, it cannot be reformed from the inside. For these and other reasons, I do not believe that this university should make its facilities available to CIA recruiters under its present form, any more than it would to criminals for recruiting or to prostitutes for soliciting. 
Sincerely, Claude Pomerleau, CSC Instructor in Government 
Northern Ireland 
Dear Editor, 

In your article covering my talk on Northern Ireland <Nov. 19th Observer) you stated that I called for immediate and complete with­drawal of British Troops. This is not what I said! My point was that a timetable be drawn up for troop withdrawal which would be at least three years hence by possibly no more than five. 
This three-five year period could be one in which a massive effort be taken by all parties concerned to find real solutions to real problems. Presently, all sides 
campus 
Mexico 11, D.F. Mexico seem unwilling to forego their respective stands which ultimately rest on either bigotry or economicCIA on oppression. Slowly, the Protestants are realizing they have been hoodwinked by the British and slowly Catholics have
Editor: 

come to the realization that an
I have been reasonably 

Irish Republic cannot be a Catholic
reassured through inquiries made 
Republic.
at Campus Ministry that the CIA 

While the conflict rages on
does not recruit at Notre Dame. I 

senselessly, I do see signs of
·,hope that the moral climate at this 

possible solutions. For the first
university remains such that the 

time in the history of Northern
ICIA continues to feel "un­

Ireland, contending factions are
,welcomed" here, as I am informed 

searching for partial ac­
'they now feel. 

comodations. The realization that
Recent and numerous creditable 

the conflict cannot be resolved
publications and my own personal 

without the consent of the working 
experience convince me that the 

class Protestants and Catholics is
actual goals and strategies of the 
a step towards hope.

CIA include murder, assassination, torture and sub­Yours Sincerely' version. This contradicts and David Thompson 
Do you remember the good old days when Freud simplified the analysis of dreams by distilling everything into one word-sex? If you dreamt of books, it was sexual; if you dr&.mt of food, it was sexual; in fact, almost everything stood for some sexual problem you had encountered. The two big sexual images though, were flying and water. If you dreamt of flying you obviously had some sexual problem that needed dealing with, and if you dreamt of water you showed a definite pre-occupation with sex (unless you went to bed thirsty). In short, dream analysis used to be merely a matter of figuring out which sexual problem the deviant at hand was suffering from and looking for a solution. Nowadays it is not so simple. Psychologists, while definitely very much aware of sex, are turning towards a more individualistic look at dreams and dreamers. With this in mind, and with the help of the latest knowledge science can offer, I have prepared a sampler of selected common dreams and their accepted analyses. Clip out this article and keep it by your bed for handy reference. 
Dream: You walk into a delicatessen, order a giant, pin-striped ruben sandwich and proceed to devour it in a matter of seconds, whereupon you excuse yourself and leave. 
Analysis: It is commonly agreed that dreams such as these have a physiological basis, namely that you went to bed hungry. As for the pin-striped sandwich, check that you have not eaten your mattress ... or your alarm-clock. In either case there will be an absence of ticking. 
Dream: You have a dream of weightless, soaring flight which 
abruptly ends in a painful crash. Amazingly enough, when you 
awake you actually feel a certain amount of pain. 
Analysis: Perhaps you should close your window more often at 
night. You probably have fallen out again. 
Dream: In this dream you are simply running and running, never stopping, just running. Analysis: Another physiological dream -you either have a bad cold or have been eating too much dining-hall food. 
Dream: You dream that you are a ruben sandwich, nervously waiting on the delicatessen shelf. 
Analysis: I don't know how you do it, but you have managed to slip between your mattress and box-spring. 
Dream: You are Jack the Ripper. However, instead of attacking young women, you only attack students, stabbing them in the back with no emotion as you head towards a huge bank vault. 
Analysis: A common undergraduate's dream, limited only to pre-med students. 
Dream: Hundreds of gorgeous naked girls are whipping you with half-cooked spaghetti. Analysis: Gosh, are you ever sick ... and dangerous too. 
Dream: In this dream you are drifting among puffy white clouds, listening to angelic music and thinking only peacefull thoughts. Analysis: Not that I mean to concern you any, but you have probably died in your sleep. 
Dream: You are trapped behmd enemy lines during World War I 
just as a mustard gas attack begins. Your eyes begin to water, you 
choke on the fumes and fall helpless to the ground. 
Analysis: Your roommate has left his sweats on the radiator 
again. · 

Dream: A real nightmare. You are a writer and you have become 
so desperate for material that you decide to write an article on 
dreams, knowing full well that it's been done hundreds of times 
before, but you'll try it for the cheap laughs available. 
Analysis: Show a complete lack of taste and tact. Perhaps you 
have a future designing basketball uniforms for Notre Dame. 
Has it been brought to the attention of University officials that one of the Apostles in The Last Supper, located in the South Dining Hall, has six toes on one foot? Perhaps it is symbolic. Perhaps not. 
by Garry Trudeau 

~ 
I HAT&

v!/tJNtAI 
7HArOUCK.


the observer 

Night Editor --Mike Strlckroth Ass't Night Editor --Mike Strlckroth Layout --Martha Fanning 
Copy Reader --Bob Quakenbush 
Day Editor --Gregg Bangs Editorials --Fred Graver, Dan Sanc.hez Features --J.R. Baker 
Sports --Pete McHugh, Greg Corgan Typists .. Mary Tobin, Camille Arrleh, Don Roos, Hank Van Dyke Compugraphic Operator --More'(' Blinder Picture Screener --Albert D'Antonio Ad Layout -· Tom Whelan Late Typist --Dave Rust Night Controller ._ Tom WHelan ~~ 
4W4 

. l
I 
! 


Leonardo daVinci-Believe It or Not 
ned mudd 
the column designed to bring to you all the Da Vinci that we know. The remnants of the world here-the world that most humans latest, most up-to-date discoveries of the body there now is of a man who died decades, know of. They simply pop in and out of here world in the world......... before the turn of the sixteenth century. The . where there is a mirror. Our mirrors are 
treporteddeath of Leonardo was around 1518-their doors. Mostly all trips taken to this 
Our latest article of discovery has been in 1519. "This body here at the site must have world are merely for vacations. the enigmatic field of architecture. been dug up from a previous grave and RORRIMIANS are a race of people that Whether you all will be able to swallow this placed here around the time that Leonardo have overcome the problems of translation. one or not is debatable. Even here at .was supposed to have died," reports Pepe When exactly that achievement occurred in Press 75 had a bit of a problem in whether Schmataratz from Wake Forest's graduate RORRIM history is hard to determine. we could afford to believe it ourselves. So, 1school of anthropology where he has been Their state of timelessness always poses believe it or not here goes... heading up their overseas school in Venice, problems in the area of locating their and send back more detailed informatjon 
Leonardo Da Vinci was not a human Italy. Adds Professor Schmataratz, "And I historical events in time." that they feel might give them greater in­being. It appears that he was more than ought to know. I've seen quite a few bodies "But why has it been that these sights towards the understandin of that. Evidence supporting this lies with the in my time." RORRIMIANS have never been detected human policies. Leonardo Da Vine was fact that Da Vinci's true family lineage is Hard to believe? You betcha, yet that's before?", mentioned Puta. one of these representatives. As we a eady totally obscure. As well, very strange ,not all by far. "They simply wait until they see that the know, he would go around collec ng as reports rumor that after Carbon 14 studies It seems that there is a certain Dr. Notslar coast is clear, and then translate them­much information as possible on thi gs that were done on the contents of Da Vinci's Drawdeb who claims that Da Vinci was, or selves. From their point of view it is like he saw by jotting down his findings into his coffin in the castle at Amboise, France it is, part of a 75 man team which has been standing behind a one way mirror. The notebooks. His handwriting was backward. was definitely concluded that the body gathering information down through experience is exhilarating -that of tran­Everyone in RORRIM writes in this fashion. which rests in state at that location could not history. When Dr. Drawe'o was asked to slation through. Better yet however, is the After recording his drawings and com­under any circumstances be the body of the clarify his statement Press 75 reporter Puta world on the other side, a place far more ments he would then hold hisltlotebooks up Mierda came back with the following words exhilerating. Mainly their world is run by a to a mirror, and his l work would . , · ·>·l>· ,., from the distinguished professor: 75 man government. The 75 members automatically be transmitfed back to his 
"I feel quite certain now that Leonardo Da originally banded together in the interest of government in RORRIM." Vinci came from a country located on the a certain set of principles which have Incredible. When Dr. Drawo'o was asked other side of the mirror, a place called proven to be so favorable with the if it was really true that everywhere that a RORRIM. Experts now feel pretty certain RORRIMIAN population that the 75 mirror existed, it also served as a portal of that the Leonardo that we knew was one of member government has been in office for entrace and exit for RORRIMIAN the more famous, and only known at what seems to be an eternity. Their main imageonauts he remarked: present, Imageonaut of RORRIM. This premise is to draw from our world all of the "Yes, exactly!! That is the means by word has just been recently introduced into aspects of our civilization which have which their government has worked so well. the English language. An Imageonaut is proved helpful towards the advancement of It is because of their objective insights into one who has the capabilities of transporting the humaneness of humanity, and that with our world which has allowed them to un­himself from one side of a mirror, through the aspects assembled, they present the derstand as much as they do. Objective the mirror, and end up in the world on the concepts to their people as government insights are sometimes very hard to find on other side. As for what the other side is policies. The average citizen of RORRIM this side of the glass." exactly is sometimes hard for the average sees the translation vehicles as only a Dr. Drawe'o refused to answer at this earth-bound human to comprehend. It is a means of getting to a certain time-space time any more of Press 75's questions as to world which exists in a timeless state. If the locale for vacational purposes. To the 75 what is involved in Imageonagraphy. inhabitants of this other world, RORRIM, members of their government it is the "Perhaps later," was all that he said. want to go anywhere they simply key means by which they obtain outside in­Well, there you have it. The latest themselves into a desired time era and formation as to what directions to govern discoveries of the world in the world. It may locality, hop into their translator vehicles, and what directions not to govern wisely. sound a bit strange. It sure does to us too. and presto, they arrive at their destination "Every so often in our history they send All that we can say is that it is up to you to of some point in time and history in this out representatives into our world to gath~r either 'Believe It Or Not'. 
seriausly! falks~======= 
White Envelope ==============~art buc: hwa1· d 
WASHINGTON--No matter how bad things get, they could ber:~arry wills worse. Instead of Gerry Ford, Giscard d'Estaing of France could be our President. 
According to the latest reports from Paris, President d'Estaing keeps disappearing and no one can get in touch with him. One reputable newspaper says that he leaves a white sealed envelope behind with a duty officer. It is the only clue to where he is. The
The Case Against Butz 
catch is that the envelope can be opened only in case of a dire emergency. The problem for the duty officer is that he is the sole judge of whether a crisis is serious enough to reveal the French President's whereabouts. 
autrider 

I take you now to the Elysees Palace. The phone rings. "Moscow calling. Your party is on the phone." 
Sometimes it looks like President Ford is those who protested the Butz remark seem "Comrade d'Estaing, this is Comrade Brezhnev., a clown leading clowns. He has a whole to have misunderstood it--they talk as if "This is not Comrade d'Estaing. This is the duty officer." chorus line of them. There's his economic Butz were mimicking the Pope himself. It is "I don't want to speak to a duty officer. I want to speak to the 
advisor, who reminds us that stockholders clear from the words, however, that he is President of France." are losing more to inflation than are poor quoting an Italian man or woman speaking "He's not here now and he left word not to be disturbed unless it people. There's the head of the Joint Chiefs, about the Pope. was a dire emergency." who claims that Jews own America's banks. Even so, the mock accent is a crude "This is an emergency. France has seized one of our destroyers There is the head of the FBI who thinks the device. I remember, years ago, writing a near Tahiti, and unless you give it back to us immediately we will dirty tricks denounced by his own boss were criticism of Jean Anouilh because, in his consider it an act of war." perfectly all right. play "Becket," he made cardinals talk "I'm sorry, Mr. Brezhnev; I can't disturb the president for just 
That boss, by the way, Attorney General heavily-accented pidgin-French (and, in the 1 destroyer. Why don't you write us a note?" Saxbe, is rather clownish in most of his English version, stage-comic American) in The phone rings again. statements and in many of his actions-­order to suggest, illogically, that they were "Alain?" witness the Patty Hearst affair. But Earl speaking elegant Italian-if not, indeed, "Oui, Madame d'Estaing" Butz is, despite heavy competition, the Latin--inside the Vatican. Simply to put a "Where is Giscard?" Administrations' clown of clowns. It was foreign language into its debased English "I do not know, Madame d'Estaing." an insult to the starving people of the world form adds an unearned touch of comedy, "Don't lie to me, Alain. I know he left an envelope behind which for us to send a man like him to the Food and therefore of mockery. says where he can be found. What is her name?" Conference in Rome, to deal with the "Please, Madame, I cannot violate security."
The speaker in Butz's story was

urgencies of hunger and starvation. He is "Alain, I will have your head if you don't tell me where my
presumably speaking Italian, not English;

the man who told us that when the larder is husband is."
and that speaker's Italian was no doubt

bare, it would be a good idea to cut back. "All right, I will tell you. He's walking the dog." 
better than Butz's Italian--and very likely

Now he has progressed from his old The phone rings again. 
better than his English.

routine of last year, in which he insulted "Alain, this is President d'Estaing."
This might be taken as a single lapse, and ...
housewives, to a game of insulting the Pope. "Ah, bon·soir, Monsieur le President, comment, cava?" 
forgiven. But even one such dreadful lapse 

He told New York journalists that the stoh "Never mind that. Where am I?" in Rome about Pope Paul's stand on birth damages a man's effectiveness--as in the "You don't know where you are?" control was "He no play-a the game, he no General Brown comment on the Jews. And "Just open the envelope and tell me where I am!" make-a the rules." the Butz remark is just one of a series of "Une minute. You are at the Crazy Horse Saloon on the Avenue 
I disagree violently with the Pope's stand offensive statements surrounding an ugly Georges V at the second ringside table from the left." on birth control. But the cheap shot that policy and proud shortsightedness. "So that's where I am! I was wondering why the acts looked so says he cannot discuss the ethical problems This clown is funny in himself, but his familiar. I was here last week. Look, Alain, do you have another of marriage without being married is below actions rightly sadden thousands of others. envelope there? I will now be at the Champs Elysees Cinema, tenth consideration as an argument. It debases Each day he remains at his post he is an row, aisle seat." discourse. advertisement for American insensitivity "Oui, Monsieur le President. What film are you going to see?" 
Then consider the .nwck accent. Some. of r11. ·i-t toward human suffering. "If I'm lucky, the 'Last Tango in.Paris. "L___ ·­
the young playwright of 'fellows' 
As the fall term zooms to a frenzied finale, students and faculty will have one last chance this semester to view beginning December 6, a student theatrical production when the ND-SMC Theatre Commission presents "Fellows". Termed a "comedy­intrigue in the absurdist manner", the play was written last year by a 1973 graduate of Notre Dame, Chris Ccraso, and features only two charactdrs portrayed by Bill McGlinn and Dan Daily. 
Ceraso who is presently working on a masters in Fine Arts at Florida State University has written other plays and one feature length film script though "Fellows" is. the first to be produced on the stage. Visiting the campus while serving as an aid to Dr. Reginald Bain, the director of the play, Cera"o took time out from rehearsal to comment on his play and on the American theatre in general. "For the most part, in the past the theatre of America has been frowned upon by the Europeans. However, it is beginning now to assert its background­-to develop its own heritage--to grow." 
"Fellows" has a distinguished history 

behind it: Last spring it won the William 
Mitchell Award for Playwrighting, an honor 
bestowed annually by the English depart­
ment for the best original play of the year. 

The play has been entered in the American 
Colllge Theatre Festival. Should it win from 
this region in January, it will proceed to 

The descent of day and the flight of night mark the voyage of time that sails around, going out, coming back, and standing still. Dusk and dawn are drawn high upon the sky, and counting up the dance of suns, we watt for revolutionary bright laughter 
by andy peavler 

Columbus, Ohio, where it will compete with other regional winners. The play selected from this screening will then be performed at the .Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C. The nomination of "Fellows" marks the first time Notre Dame has entered in the original play category. 
Not an unrecognized playwright, Ceraso won the William Mitchell Award for his works three consecutive years while at Notre Dame. Appearing qiuetly earnest, he leans forward in his chair and explains, "I actually started writing my freshman year here, though it wan't until my sophomore year that I really got into it. I took an independent study course then and with suggestions and guidelines from my in­structor, I began to write seriously." Gazing out the window, he adds, "I will continue the playwrighting although the idea of acting is very appealing. I enjoy acting too." 
In growing as a playwright, the ND alumnus believes, "It's a matter of seeing what other playwrights are doing. I try not to miss any plays. " From this, an im­portant awareness of trends and new ideas is fostered. 
"Fellows" will be performed in the Washington Hall Theatre on Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, and 14. Curtain time for the five per­forll\ances is 8 p.m. and the admission forSet construction for the ND-SMC Theatre production of Fellows. 
students and faculty is $1.50. 

cycles of earth 
by skip peterson

Talk of destiny and dream deep of fate. 
Yes, do that, but laws of life still do hold Glaciers and volcanos turn first cole 
humankind within bounds of circumstance. then hot; they freeze and burn everywhere 
We shall not outlive the surr, or the ant, they turn. Still, there some crazy man does plant 
or the flower, or the worm, or the grass: a seed for a hundred summers of air 
they will all go on, growing from our bones, and sun and water. Standing near, his daughter 

that comes from cracks in the mind with no sound With people and flowers we climb a hill where somewhere on slope or summit we die. There life's landscape stretches forth and back in mysterious quiet and darkness that deceives the eye as to its distance. Sun rise, moon rise, skies contain no secrets for those with eyes to see and read the light. Evolution is no sweet caress: nature tooth and nail weeds out those who fail. 
reaching for the sky, swimming in the sea. Dawn, noon, and dusk, all the same quick become in the long light of time across the stars. Here we are: on earth, a woman frets, a child starves; here is glut, there is lack. The clickety-clack of time on does drum until in dizziness neither after, now, nor before is revealed in the rush. Humans mass in valleys between the thrones of kings and things that make the mountains shake. 
cries that within her womb squirms the world's grace. 
Steam and ice turn the earth from birth to scars, 
and still, these crazy ones, they do not see 
that devastation, desolation, doom, 
and dark lie as clouds close before the sun, 
that humans are a race whose time has run. Yes, we say, in the quiet before the boom, 
the sun every day's dusk does go down; 
yet next day's dawn, the sun comes up, a clown 
to beguile laughter to our human face. 
the turmoil of our times 
He was born shortly after the turn of the works. Behind the desk is a row of his own Court and other international tribunals, the century in a small town of the Austro­books, symbolically binding together the Chairman of the Fellowship Council of Hungarian Empire. He grew up in the man's long, distinguished, tumultuous Hungary, Count Paul Teleki, advised him in provincial city of Rimaszombat that today career. 1935 to apply for a Rockefeller fellowship to is Rimavska Sobota and part of That career began in 1926 when Kertesz . the United States. Teleki foresaw not only Czechoslovakia. Many years later and received a doctorate of law and later a the coming war, but also America's im­
0 

several thousands of miles from his bir­teaching degree from the University of portant role in the post-war world. thplace, he now works on the 12th floor of Budapest. His work on the League of Following the advice of the old Count (who Notre Dame's Memorial Library. His name Nations won him a scholarship for study in later became Prime Minister and com­is Stephen D. Kertesz and he is the director France. Upon completing his studies at the mitted suicide when the Nazi invaded 

of Notre Dame's Institute for International University of Paris, he studied Studies. Hague, Oxford, Geneva and Yale. 
Professor Kertesz is a soft-spoken man, While working in the office cordial and easy to talk with. The kind of Hungarian Foreign Ministry personality I suppose one would expect of a represented Hungary before the former career diplomat. Yet Kertesz's easy grace is not simply a tool of his trade. One can see written in his face that this humility is part of his nature. Perhaps it was born of shattered dreams and fearful realities. Professor Kertesz has lived through the political passage from kingdom to republic and from Nazism to Communism that is the legacy of 20th century Hungary. As a diplomat he tired to help steer his native land between the Scylla of Nazi Germany and the Charybdis of Soviet Russia in the hope that with the help of the victorious Western Powers a democratic Danubian federation would be established. He was working toward this goal only to see his hopes dashed as Hungary was first pulled towards the rocks and then sucked into the whirlpool. 
With this personal heritage it is un­derstandable why Professor Kertesz enjoys directing international studies. When you walk into his 12th floor complex you can almost feel the heartbeat of our times. The walls of the main reading room are lined with reviews, journals and digests from around the world. Next door you can hear the clatter of typewriters as secretaries and graduate students work on the Review of Politics. Kertesz's private office is planned disorder. It mirrors the world in which he 

at The Hungary in 1941) Kertesz won a Rockefeller fellowship for 1935-37. of the During the war, Kertesz was working for which the Hungarian government in Budapest and World 0 at the Hungarian Legation in Bucharest <Romania). In 1943, while in the Political 1Section of the Foreign Ministry, he was charged with the preparation of the Hungarian case for the Peace Conference in expectation of Nazi Germany's defeat. These explotis, which included secret negotiations with the Allies before Hungary was invaded, are recounted in his book, Diplomacy in a Whirlpool. In October of 1944, following-a Nazi coup, Kertesz was arrested and accused of treason by the puppet government. He was carted around the country from prison to prison, abused, threatened with death, court-martialed but finally acquitted for lack of evidence. Kertesz returned to his family in late December of 1944, just in time for the Russian siege of Budapest. He and his family spent seven weeks with one hundred other people in the basement of an apartment building. Eating the meat of a horse killed by an artillery shell was a rare treat, he remembers. One morning, after the Russians had finally seized the city, they ordered all military-aged males in the apartment building to report to the Russian headquarters at 7 A.M. to receive their identity papers. Sensing something suspicious, Kertesz fled across the Danube instead. All the men who reported were 

by brian burke 




uncommon glimpses 

During the brief post-war period when Hungary was ruled by a coalition gover­nment Kertesz once again was in charge of the peace preparatory work in the Foreign Ministry. In 1946, he was Secretary-General of the Hungarian Peace Delegation at the Conference of Paris and the following year Hungarian Ambassador to Italy. After Communists seized the government in 1947, he refused to return to Hungary. 
At this point, Kertesz, who was not only internationally known for his writings but also had taught at the University of Budapest, was invited to teach at the Yale Law School where he became visiting Associate Professor for two years. While at Yale, Kertesz received a letter from Fr. Boland, the head of the political science department at Notre Dame. Boland wrote that he was responding to Kertesz's inquiry about the possibility of teaching at Notre Dame. He invited Kertesz to come here during the summer of 1948. Strangely enough, Kertesz had never heard of Fr. Boland and has no idea who sent the mysterious letter that first brought him to Notre Dame twenty-five years ago. He was named director of the Committee on In­ternational Relations in 1954 and has taught courses here on both the graduate and undergraduate levels. 
In Stephen Kertesz we find a mixture of the diplomat and teacher; the man of politics and man of letters; the man with such a past immersed in the present; a life 
shipped off to Russia as war prisoner,s,. ... _..e!lught up in the. turmoil of our times. 
· • ' • • _, • • -. • • o • • 1 t o I I l'\.1.' < ,-;.v,'-4--~' ' • ' -·-'-0 ,. 

the observer 
9 


Saudi Arabi confident it can buy munitions 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (UPI) -Saudi Arabia is confident it can buy arms from the United States "with no strings atta­ched" and has arranged to buy $800 million worth of munitions from France as well, according to the Saudi defense ministry. 
Prince Sultan Ben Abdel Aziz told newsmen Tuesday at the Saudi oil port of Dammam that 
he recently signed an agre~-. delegation military we 
St. Marys lasts lor hunger 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
In an effort to raise money for the world's starving, several St. Mary's students are planning to fast for a meal. 
According to event co-ordinator Michael Dongarra, the fast is scheduled for next Tuesday, December 10. 
Rather than eat the evening meal that day, he said participants will attend a concelebrated mass at the Church of Loretto. Although celebrants for the mass have not yet been determined, they will include "people on campus who are from hunger-stricken coun­tries," Dongarra stated. 
SAGA, St. Mary's food service, will donate 50 cents for each ~h"~~nt who fasts on Tuesday. 


Turkish forces allow 400 Greek refugees to return to Cyprus 
NICOSIA <UPI) -Turkish occupation forces Wednesday allowed the first of nearly 400 Greek Cypriot refugees to leave a Kyrenia hotel for the first time since their confinement last summer, a U.N. spokes­man said. 
The move came amid height­ened tension on the war-scarred island because of the expected arrival from Athens Friday of Archbishop Makarios, over­thrown as president in the July 15 coup that triggered the Turkish invasion of Cyprus. 
The release of the refugees came as Acting President Glafkos Clerides and the Turkish Cypriot vice president, Rauf Denktash, held a final meeting prior to Makarios' scheduled arrival. 
Fifty persons, most of them elderly or ill, left the Dome Hotel in Kyrenia under U.N. escort and were taken to Greek Cypriot areas in the south, the spokesman said. 
The hotel is at the western 
end of the picturesque harbor 
of the former Greek Cypriot 
town on north central Cyprus. 
Turkish landed on 
ment with France for cash technicians under Deputy De­arms purchases over a four-fense Minister Prince Turki year period. Ben Abdel Aziz. is currently He said most of the weapons . shoppin~. in the United States 
were tanks and accessories but f for mumtions. , that ~ophisticated missiles a!so He said the United States · were mcluded. French factortes "has agreed to provide us with 
already have beg~n work on our needs in sophisticated the weapo~s, he satd. weapons with no strings atta­
The prmce also said a ched." of Saudi Abdel Aziz added that "all 
k
I " 
1 ,.., · -.~i: 
tt::,:;,,, 
·~ 
!'?. -, 
seeks to relieve hunger Because of overhead and salaries of the food service's staff, SAGA is unable to d?nate more, said 
late July. 
The U.N. spokesman said 382 persons have been confined in the hotel since the war. 
"This was the first group permitted to leave the hotel since the war," the spokesman said. "The whole group proba­bly will be moved out by the weekend." 
He said 50 Turkish Cypriots will be taken Thursday from the Greek Cypriot area near 
Paphos, at the southwestern tip of the island and the site of Makarios' home, to Turkish-held areas in the north. 
Turkish forces have occupied nearly 40 per cent of the island, once a tourist mecca. The tourists, who were the island's No. 1 source of hard currency, have stayed away since the war. 
Clerides and Denktash met for three and a half hours with 
U. N. and International Red cross officials and then met privately for another 20 minu­tes, the spokesman said. They did not set a date for another meeting but the spokesman said one will be held. 
The two leaders, boyhood friends. have been meetin" 

8:00 til ????? 
at the Heidleberg Inn Niles, Mich. 
BE THERE! ! 
he van will leave the circle at 7:30 and 8:30 
Dongarra, who is also a member of SMC's Campus Ministry. 
No agency has yet been selected to receive the funds raised as a result of the fast, he continued. 
Referring to an article in Tuesday's observer which noted that organizers of the tea and rice dinner held at Notre Dame prior to Thanksgiving, may have lost money because several students who agreed to participate failed to do so, Dongarra stated that "there is no chance of losing m·oney. We have nothing invested. Instead we will just receive 50 cents less for each student who decides to come to dinner rather than fast as she had signed up to do." 
Any student wishing to par­ticipate in the fast or help organize it should contact Dongarra at 5389, or Mary Beth Immler at 4391. 


weekly on humanitarian issues affecting the island, including the release of prisoners of war and the plight of tens of thousands of persons made homeless by the war. · 

Michigan names h b
f e honey ee fhe·r f fe • eCf
l s a lDS 
LANSING, Mich. (UPl) ­The Michigan Senate Wednes­day rejected a House·-passed bill designating the honey bee 

as  the  state  insect,  and  the  
action  touched  off  a  round  of  
one-line wisecracks.  
"I  don't  see  how  we  can  

justify, at a time when we're trying to get the bugs out of government, putting the bees in," said Sen. Jack Faxon, D­Detroit, after the bill was defeated on a 19·7 vote.__ _ 
Half a dozen senators took to the microphones to argue the merits of the honey bee. 
"I thought the question was, 'To bee or not to bee," said Sen. James Fleming, R-Jack­son 

Saturday Night Dec. 7 
own is at the disposal of the Arab nation and will be in the battle against the common enemy <Israel)." 
He also confirmed that Saudi Arabia plans to take full control of its vast oil resources in the near future by acquiring 100 pet cent ownership of the Arabian American Oil Co., better known as Aramco, which at present is partly American-owned. 
"Our direction now is toward 100 per cent ownership, but the time needed for this may be a few months," the prince said. 
The American partners in 
THE WAY WE WERE 
Starring 
BARBRA STREISAND ROBERT REDFORD 
Engineering Auditorium 
Dec. 5 & 6 Thurs. & Fri. 6:00 8:00 10:00 
Admission $1 .00 
PATRONS FREE 
Standard Oil of California· and 
Mobil Oil. Saudi Arabia won 25 
per cent participation in the 
company in December, 1972, 
and 60 per cent last June. 
According to oil experts the American companies ~ould continue to provide technicians until Saudi Arabia can train more of its own. The American companies also would get a guaranteed supply of Saudi crude at favorable prices. 
As an additional gesture, the Saudis might agree to boost their production from the current 8.5 million barrels per day to J.1 million barrels, oil 
... 
.. 

--------------------------------------" 
Scientists announce plans lor Pioneer 11 
By ROBERT STRAND 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. (UPI) -Space agency scien­tists decided Wednesday to angle the Pioneer 11 spacecraft inside the innermost ring of Saturn, less than 6,000 miles from the mysterious planet's surface. 
Saturn's unique three rings, which are 81,000 miles wide, are only one mile thick-but they may be composed of flying rocks the size of the Empire State Building. 
John H. Wolfe, chief project scientist, said the entire region around Saturn may contain flying rocks. At its high speed, Pioneer could be destroyed by a collision with a fleck of dust. 
Pioneer would flash through the plane of the rings in a fraction of a second, too fast at that point to take pictures. The distance from the planet to the innermost ring is 15,500 miles. 
Since Pioneer's encounter 

Monday night with giant Jupiter, computers have been recalculating the spacecraft's position. Project manager Charles Hall said, "Right now, I don't know where we are, precisely." 
The Saturn course decision, subject to change, was reached at a meeting of scientists who considered several options. 
The closest approach was considered the safest. The earth, the sun and Saturn will be nearly in a straight line 
ND-SMC Theater to present children's production of· 'Beauty and the Beast' 
m ~eptember, 1979, when Pioneer makes the first visit to Saturn. 
The scientists decided to speed up the spacecraft by a few days so as to increase the angle between the three objects and avoid radio interference by the sun's corona. 
Wolfe said the speedup brings a bonus. It will enable Pioneer to fly by Saturn's moon, Titan­the place in the solar system believed to have the best chance of having advanced life. 
"We are going to stay far enough away to guarantee the planetary quarantine people that we won't crash into Titan and contaminate the place," Wolfe said. 
The course chosen ruled out a possibility that Pioneer would be routed after Saturn to the planet Uranus. To do so, Pioneer must pass through the rings when behind Saturn and out of radio communication, and Wolfe said, ""We hink that's a no-no." 
Instead of going to Uranus,­the spacecraft will be on a course which eventually will take it out of the solar system. Its sister, Pioneer 10, which visited Jupiter last year, now is headed out of the solar system in the opposite direction. 
HAMLET 
at the theatre box office one hour is not as formalized in the staff reporter before the presentations. Tickets department as the regular sub­may be reserved by phone, at 4176, scription program with its four The children's classic "Beauty or by going to the programming offerings. According to Bain, "The and the Beast" is being offered on · office in 239 Moreau. Theatre for the Young is a part of 
by Norman F. Bower 

the next two weekends by the According to Dr. Reginald Bain, our total drama program." He Theatre for the Young of the ND­chairman of the Speech and added that even though the 
SMC Theatre. The afternoon Drama Department, the Theatre Theatre for the Young is not a presentation in Saint Mary's for the Young has been department speciality, it has O'Laughlin Auditorium will begin rejuvenated during the past three benefited the students and the at 2'clock on December 7,8,14 and years during which it has done two community. 
shows each year.
15. Dr. Richard Bergman of the Past presentations have in­
schools' cooperative Speech and cluded the favorites "Winnie the Drama Department will direct the Pooh," "Alice in Wonderland," 
ensemble production which and "Robin Hood," as well as a few Bergman noted might be best experimental shows such as appreciated by those 4 to 12 years Englishman Brian Way's par­old, but enjoyed by everyone. ticipatory play "The Hat." The 75 cent, unreserved tickets Formerly a traditional depart­for all four showings will be on sale ment feature, theatre for children 
Dominican Republic forces cracks down on Dreads 
ROSEAU, Dominica <UPI) -wide sweep to clean out the Dread guerrilla camps.
The tiny security forces of this 
A police spokesman said that 
eastern Caribbean island began 
eight or nine Dreads were
arresting the Dreads today and 
arrested in rural areas and
shaving the long braids that 
their heads shaved before they
mark them as members of the were jailed. .
black power movement blamed 
The elimination of the organi­
for killing whites. 
zation, blamed for attacks on
As the deadline ran out for 
visiting and resident whites, 

Starring: Nicol Williamson 
Sat. December 7 
7:30 & .1 0:00 P.M. 
Pdmission SO<t 
En ineerin Auditorium 
the Dreads to disband, the 130­will probable take until the end man police force and the 30­of next week, the spokesman man army launched an island-said. 

turn your books into christmas presents 
It's easy-when you finish with your books, you trade them in for cash I Then go out and blow it on your friends and family. -­
Whether you end up one fat Santa or a little short depends on how many books 
you've got to sell, what condition they're in, and whether or not there's a 
need for them nationwide. 
Whatever you want to use the money for it will sure beat just letting them lie 
around collecting dust. So bring your books over to the professional book­
buyers at the bookstore now, while your book is worth the most it will ever be. 
Wait too long and the chances are you may end up playing Scrooge I 
sell them lorcash at
' 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
university of notre dame 



THURS. & FRI., DEC. 12 &13 • 9-4:30 SAT., DEC. 14 • 9-3:00 

-------------------------~-~-------~-----------------------­
Three auto thehs hit Notre Dame campus 

by Don Reimer staff reporter 
Three car thefts have occurred at N.D. since November seven­teenth, according to Security Director Arthur Pears. All of the cars were stolen from campus parking lots and two of the thefts reportedly took place during daylight hours. 
The first incident, that on November 17th, involved a 1964 Volkswagen taken from D-1 lot. Pears noted that this theft oc­curred at approximately 11:15 A.M. 
The second auto was taken from D-2 lot on November 25th. The stolen car in this instance was a blue 1969 Ford. The third theft transpired on November 26th between the hours of 9: 45 A.M. and 1:45 P.M. and involved a yellow Vega parked in the A-1 faculty lot. 
Pears speculated concerning possible methods employed by the thieves. "I suppose the older Vol~swagen could have been jumped as well as the 1969 Ford," Pears commented. "But in the case of the Vega keys would pro!Jably be needed because of the steering post lock." 
In reference to the preventive measures used by the N.D. security force, Pears stated,"we patrol the lots night and day every 15-20 minutes and we have student patrols at night." 
Continuing, Pears emphasized, "If someone had a set of keys we certainly wouldn't stop them. Unless someone is forcibly en­tering a car we don't have any reason to suspect them." He noted 


Food staznps cutback 
.WASHINGTON <UPI) -The Agriculture Department Wednesday took the first formal step toward reducing food stamp benefits for many yeedy families March 1 despite tarnings that the move will face a strong challenge from critics in Congress. 
Department officials an­nounced that a formal proposal to raise the amount of cash which poor people pay for food coupons. 
For most of the 14.7 million persons who now get food stamps, the plan would mean higher purchase costs and -as a direct result -lower benefits from the stamp plan. At present, average participating 
families  pay  only  about  24  per  
cent of their  net  income  to  get  
food stamps.  


stamps will be published F . k h . . d 
said rlC osplta1lZe

Friday. They public comment on the proposal will be accepted until Dec. 27. 
Under the plan which Presi­dent Ford announced as part of an overall federal budget­trimming program on Nov. 26, almost all families receiving food stamps would have to pay the legally-allowable maximum of 30 per cent of their net income in order to the Ill 
Vice President of Public Relations and Development James 
W. Frick is being treated in St. Joe's Hospital, South Bend for a circulatory ailment. 
Frick was admitted to the ­hospital Tuesday night, Nov. 26. His physician has requested that he receive no visitors at this time. 

c NOW RENTING A FOR SECOND SEJ\1\ESTER' 
M 
"\P \RT,lE:"iTS WITH 
THE ~Tt'DENT 1:\ '11:"iD" 

P TWO BEDROOM FURNISHED 
u 
APARTMENTS 
S Featuring: 
* 
COMMUNITY BUILDING

* 
2 BATHS IN THE 



2 BEOOOOM APARTMENTSV * AIR CONDITIONING
* SWIMMING POOL

I * *~ orst=~wJ\s1-rErf RANGEE * -­
REFRIGERATOR

* GAREY\GE DISPOSAL W BA~KETBALL COURT
* LOCATION: 3 BLCXKS FROM CAMPUS! 

~ IIH 1'\l"(lfBL\TICl:\. \ALL :..'7~-1t41. ()R . i~lT THF nFF~I T \ T >-H55S.I R ISH \\ -~ \ \ r. 1 ;1, • r 11 1 ' '1 · ,1I -."> : 11 (' i\111:\ n·\ 1 · ::!~~·: t :l FHif' \Y ~ \t·Hn~~ !HE 
.... ·:: H~ I ' l ' ; I\1 : \ I \' ,..\ . l y ~ '
I 
that at certain times of the day there are large numbers of people using their cars and it would be impossible to check everyone entering the lots 

"All local, county and state 
' police have descriptions of the stolen vehicles, and we have also put out descriptions over a national distribution network," said Pears. He also stated that as of now no leads have been discovered on an of the cars. As to the possibility of an organized car theft ring, Pears remarked, "I wouldn't think that it ~oul? be a ring if they are just the cars because
JUnkmg they 

they each want a car." Pears 
1 wouldn't junk a Vega." Due to the 

noted that besides the similarity in
close time sequence of the thefts 

time of the thefts there was no way
however, Pears pointed out "It 

of knowing positively whether or
might possibly be a grou~ of 
1 
not they were done by a group or a 
, several individuals who decide series of individuals. 
"The owners are helpless vic­

tims," Pears observed. "I'm sure ,that they all lock their cars the bestIthey can." 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Needed: 6 bowl tix. No scalpers. Deb or Jean, 7850. 
we are looking for men and women over 18, who en joy the outdoors, to deliver the Penny Saver on Wednesdays. Must have tran­sportation. Apply in person Thurs. or Fri. from 9-6 at 52027 U.S. 31 North (across from Pagoda Gardens Restaurant) or call 272­1688 for appointment. 
Need ride vicinity Dallas. Christmas. Willing to share$$ and driving. Cathy, 1332. 
Wanted: pretty girl to sit and be heavy. 289-2521. 
Need ride to Virginia for Christ­mas break. Please call Marty at 289-3751. 
1need 2or 4 adjacent $8.50 Orange Bowl tickets. Call Marcy at the Observer at 7471 from 9-5. 
FOR RENT 
Room -$.40 month. Kitchen, rides. Private. 233-1329. 
1 bedroom in 4-bedroom house. 5 minute walk to campus. $50 per month. 234-6834. 
2 rooms with kitchen, bar, and color tube. Owner pays utilities. $60 per month. Call 288-0144. 
2 upstairs rooms, large bedroom den, available for student occupancy. Share downstairs kitchen and bathroOm. 3 miles from campus. Widow's pension allows no rent, share utilities-$32 per month. Call Mrs. Spencer, 233-4670 or 283-7052. 
House for rent for second semester. Good neighborhood, close to campus, low rent. For info, call Marty at 289-3751. 
FOR SALE 
Must s<.:ll Bentwood rocker -$70. Call Margaret after 4 pm. 288-2759. 
Merry Christmas. 4 month old 300 watt c.>mponent stereo system. 41 percent off list price. Steve, 1403. 
Harmon Kardon 330 amp (case included) -$185. BSR 610 turntable -$65. Wollensak 8055 eight-track ­$175. All items less than one year old, excellent condition. Call 1069. 
Ski boots for sale -Men's 9M good condition. Call 7993. 
For sale: 4 Kinks tickets-Chicago, 

Dec. 13. 27th row. Call Fred, 1108 or 7471. 
"Turquoise Lovers" Navajo Squashblossom for sale. Tom, 234­5646. 
Sony amplifier FM-AM receiver STR-110 with speakers. 1 year old. $125 or best offer. Call 8736. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: S. Din. Hall 11-30. Blue ski coat. "The North Face." With cap and gloves. Dave, 215 Carroll, 6320. 
Lost: one gold Timex watch. Tuesday night 12-3. Call 1152. Reward. 
Lost: calculator at Physics Review. Reward. Call Marc, 277­0176. 
Found: one campus: female shepherd mixed; 2-4 mo. old, black collar and white flea collar. Call 288-0360. 
Lost: a pair of roundish blue­rimmed eyeglasses. Call Connie, 7865. 
Lost: green suede belt left in car of 3 ND students from Rochester who picked up 2 girls and dog on Ohio turnpike during storm Sun nite. Call Mary collect, 312-327-8846 eves. You can keep jumper cables. 
NOTICES 

Knights of Columbus: Fr. Griffin will say Mass at 10 pm Sunday at the K of C. Afterwards we will decorate our tree and sing Christmas carols. Refreshments will also be served. 
Overseas jobs-Australia, Europe. Professions and occupations -$700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation. Trans-World Research Co, Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
Sell your text and paperbacks for cash or credit. 2:30-3:30 at Pan­dora's Books. 
Books and calendars are great Christmas gifts. All used books till Sun or two for one. Some new books reduced. Gift certificate available. Pandora's Books. 
Ride available to Orange Bowl leaving Dec. 27th. 283-8576. 
Saint Mary's College Summer Program in London, May 20-June 
20. Travel in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, France. College credit available. $865 plus tuition. CaII 284-4951. 
Christmas stereo specials at Golden Dome Records -804 Ftanner, phone 1487-great buys on all lines -Pioneer SX 1010, list 699.50, now 569.95 total (tax in­cluded). Pioneer SX939 list 599.95, now 479.95 total. Pioneer SX838 list 499.95, now 399.95. Also great buys on Sony, Sherwood, Marantz, Dual, Thorens, Technics, and much more. 
Campus View now renting tor second semester. New 1 & 2 bedroom apartments completely furnished. 5 month leases available. Call 272-1441. 
Great record buys · all records on sale in Christmas Special at Golden Dome records. 804 Flan­ner, phone 1487. All single albums, list $6.98, our regular price $4.55, now $4.25. All double albums, s.so off our regular low price. Special orders available. 
Need a ride for Christmas? Wilson Driveaway has cars going to many destinations in the U.S. (especially South and West). Your only ex­pense is gas. For all the details, call Jim at 1694 after 11:30 pm. 
For sale: Thorens TD 160 with Shure V15 Type Ill -Thorens TD 125 ABMK II with B & 0 sp12, Rectilinear X1A (still in box) (at cost) Nakimichi 1000 cassette deck, SAE MKIM Preamp (demo), SAE Equalizer. Phone 1487. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Skipper Blue Eyes: 22 already??? Belated B-Day happy 
Dear 7th Floor Flanner Football Studs: A before B except after Saturday. 
Peter Denison & Wern 
Coconut Creeker: Think Duke will ever move back to brotherly love? 
Right Guard. 
To our brothers on 2nd floor Zahm: A belated thanks -it couldn't have been nicer! 
Your sisters in Far~y 1-A 
Dear Dolly Doris: Happy Birthday BIG 19. I'm up for 10 or 12 hours. Are you? 
Love you, Sargie 
Little ball of fluff, hot fudge, cokes, looking for Catherine and Leopold: little things that say I love you. 
B-Bear 
3rd floor B-P, Cloister emetically speaking -Turkeys? FD, BP 
Boris: Can't wait to see you. Please hurry. 
, With love from Rome 
Kevin: Sorry we "rubbed" you the wrong way. 
J & J Enterprises 
To anyone offended SWe didn't mean anyone specifically. We're sorry you took it that way. 
J & J 
Greg C., Steve N., and AI S. Thanks for calling! Kelly and her friends. 
For the man who is pure at heart, 
but we're not so sure about the 
mind. Call Bill V. -I.B.R. 
Need something sheer for the little lady? Contact Bob S. -he found something so shocking he slept in the lobby of T.I.H. 
Lost: Ed R.'s stomach somewhere between SB and L.A. If found please return. 
You thought Burt Reynolds had good legs? You should see Ralph's. If interested, contact the blind­man's local 116 union of streakers. 
Want some C.T.'s. Call Scarlet "A" any hour-she makes her own. Contact Room 111. 
Always Makingme· Dream: HB to my partner in the tea breakS & fisticuffs. 

AD-DC electrifiesWildcats100-84 
26-19. With Dantley and Clay outdistanced everybody in stealsby Greg Corgan tracing baskets with McKinney, with seven.
Sports Editor the Irishkepttlle eight point spread "I like to play pressure 'D,' " till the half ended with Notre Dame said Martin. "That's my strongTake away Notre Dame's Adrian 

on top 53-45. point. I like to create turnoversDantley and Northwestern's Billie The Irish actually won the first and that's what I tried to doMcKinney and the final of last twenty minutes by virtue ·of an tonight."
night's Irish-Wildcat basketball initial eight point outburst, a He succeeded fairly well sincegame would read like ahigh school 
pressing defense, which the the 'Cats finished the night with 25 score, 56-47. Subtract Dwight Clay 
and Digger Phelps crew would Wildcats had trouble adjusting to, turnovers, a fact which aided the and of course, 32 points by Dantley. Irish in the second half.
have lost 47-34. 
"We were playing what we call Three minutes into the final 
Fortunately for Digger and the A.D. blue offense," said period, McKinney, who Phelps unfortunately for ND's Tex Winter, Phelps. "With that we try to get calls "one of the best guards I have both Dantley and Clay made their the ball inside to Dantley. When ever seen," canned a 25 foot 
presence know. And although you've got Dantley, you've got to jumper to narrow the gap to one, 
McKinney was no recluse by any give it to him. 56-55. But jump shots by Billy means, the Irish overcame the A lot of things go into making up Paterno and Clay, sandwiched sophomore guard's 37 points to Adrian Dantley. He is as dedicated around five more points by Dan­
post their SP.cond win of the young as (John) Shumate as an athlete; tley and zero points by Nor­season, 100-84. you just can't overwork him." thwestern gave the Irish a ten 
At the beginning and at the end, "Without the coaches helping me point lead and control of the ball the Irish had •comfortable1eads. and without my fellow teammates game. Dantley's 44 points and Clay's 22 feeding me the ball and setting The closest Northwestern got made sure of that. But some picks and everything I wouldn't after that was 86-80 with three and where in between, things got a have been able to do it," explained a half minutes to play, but ten little tense. Dantley of his performance. straight points put it out of reach. 
The Irish jumped out to a 21-9 "The offense we used is designed The Irish hit the century mark lead eight and a half minutes into to feed me the ball inside and when when Clay hit a one-hand jumper the game with Dantley supplying I had the shot, I took it." with two seconds to play. 11 of those points. The lead was As good as A.D. was offensively, Despite their hundred points, the extended to 26-11 until Nor­guard Ray Martm was defen­Irish also gave up 84, a factor 
thwestern came back with eight sively. "Dice" caused havoc in the causing some concern to Phelps. 
straight points cutting the gap to Wildcat backcourt all night and "We are a young and inex­perienced defensive team," allowed Digger. "We're inex­perienced because Dantley and Paterno have to learn to play 
Adrian Dantley equaled his uniform numeral last night with 44 points In 
defense without Shumate in the 
-the home opener against Northwestern.
middle. We will be giving up 
strength and sometimes speed in the backcourt. If the Wildcats Willie Williams had 11 pointsagains thte better front lines had not been bothered by the press apiece.around the country. It's a great the Irish put on from the opening But Notre Dame had 13 steals to defense that we employ, but we've tipoff, the ending might have been three for NU, 15 assists to six for just got to get used to it, work with turned aroudn. Besides McKin-the Wildcats, 53 rebounds to 35 six it and get settled in it. It's going to riev's 37 points, _center James less turnovers, and 66 points f~om 
take some time." Wallace bad 17 and Ttm Teasley and Clay and Dantley.
Like the Valparaiso game, Phelps again used ten players including three freshmen, Dave 
Harrier Hurt hurts hip
Batton, Jeff Carpenter and Don 
by Pat Holleran

"Duck" Williams. Williams also problems, however. Hurt, who contributed seven points. had been nursing a sore hip since 
"I thought Duck, Carpenter and The running of the NCAA Cross the District meet, was forced to Batton played a good game," Country Championships at Indiana drop out with that injury after added Digger. "If we are going to a week ago Monday proved to be a about 2 and one half miles. Yates' be any good in March we have to successful event for the University downfall was the stomach cramp play these three early." of Oregon and runners from other which had been bothering him on 
On top of that, Toby Knight will countries, but not so successful for and off since the Notre Dame have to continue to play heads up Notre Dame's two representatives, Invitational. basketball. The sophomore center Joe Yates and Jim Hurt. in the top 100, with-what Coach had 13 points on the evening and The Ducks successiufiy defended Piane termed "an excelle~ 
filled in superbly for starting the title they gained a year ago, chance for the top 50--or better," center Peter Crotty who fouled out. .Placing their top three runners in Yates developed the painful \...-His outside shooting opened up the the 4-5-6 positions to cement a solid cramp, slowed, and ultimatelymiddle for Dantley. victory over runner-up Western finished we.ll back in the pack. With this last-second one-hander, Dwight Clay made It 22 for himself, and Northwestern didn't have Kentucky. Nick Rose of W.K.U., Piane voiced the opinion, however, 
trouble in the middle but, initially, an Englishman, beat two Kenyans that despite the finish nothing
100 for Notre Dame. 
to the tape for the individual title, could really diminish the excellent improving his 2nd place finish of season both runners had this fall, 1973. and only hopes that they can do as
Foils again for ND fencers 
Both Hurt and Yates had well indoors. 


by Bill Delaney the picture for epee looks very year than most people think," S,wl·mme·•s open p...1·day 1·n 

Welcoming back a talented bright." noted DeCicco. "Fencing is the ~ • ~ , number of men for a nucleus is The sabre contest appears to be only activity besides my teaching enviable for any coach, but Notre 
wide-open, with only Sam DiFiglio duty that I'll be doing this year. Notre Dame In"Wrl·tatl•onal 
Dame Fencing Coach Mike the only certain starter. "We're When you have the calibre of talent yo, 
DeCicco has the unusual pleasure complete in sabre, but not much that we have this year, a national by Ernie Torrlero of having at least three returnees more," commented DeCicco. championship is definitely within This is the 17th year for Stark as in the three individual weapons "Youngsters like Rich Valdeserri, sights. The continual im-The 1974-75 Notre Dame head coach of the Irish. Thus far this season. Mike Jazanoff and John Vozello provement, however minute it swimming season begins this he ahs compiled a lifetime record 
''This year without a doubt has to have continued to impress us this may be, may be the difference in weekend at home with the of 100-85-1, with his cherished 100th'' be the biggest group of fencers fall, and only need formal com-the end." traditional Notre Dame In-victory coming in the team's last with previous experience that I've petition to tell us how far they've The Irish fencers begin their vitational Relay. The teams meet of the year at Illinois State. had the opportunity to work with," advanced. We're working on home season with a match against competing in this event along with "Drury gave us the most com­said DeCicco. "We're tremen­DiFiglio's development, because Marquette Thursday afternoon, Notre Dame will be Bradley, petition last season and un­dously strong in epee and foil, and he needs to be pressed to do the job and after the Christmas Holidays, Drury College, Oakland, Wayne doubtedly will be the most if our sabre comes around, I think we think he's capable of." begin a six-match -road ' trip State and Valparaiso. Last year powerful opponent again this it will be very hard to stop us." In foil, intense competition has against schools the 'liKes of the Irish finished second in this weekend," says Stark. "I think 
Among those veterans returning created a situation where DeCicco Maryland, Navy, Army -.. NYU meet, losing to Drury by 31 points. we're in shape. Staying here over for the Irish are sophomores Tim has five or six dependable fencers and Penn, the number one and Oakland finished third, followed by Thanksgiving was very beneficial. Glass and Ed Fellows in epee, he can call on. "In our tournament 1 three ranked teams in the country Wayne State, Valparaiso and: It's hard to predict how we'll do captain Tom Coye and sophomore before Thanksgiving break, we last year. Bradley. , because all we have to go on is time Terry McConville in foil, and had five men who finished within a "We definitely have a long road This year Notre Dame is led by \ trials and they don't give a good sophomore ; Sam DiFiglio in victory or two of each other, with a ahead for us, but I'm very con-three-time MVP Jim Kane in idea of what to expect." sabre. freshman <Bill Kica) coming out fident that we'll do well," confides freestyle, along with returning Drury; from Springfield, 
"In my opinion, Ed Fellows and on top," said DeCicco. "My , DeCicco. "Scheduling NYU and letterman Ed Graham, Drew Missouri, will be led by Corky King TimGiass have to be the best 1-2 captain, Tom Coye did a fine job, Penn gives us the opportunity of Wallach, Jim Meagher and fresh-in the freestylye, IM and fly, and punch in epee in the country with but men like Bill Greard, fencing against the top, and we'd man Ed Fitzsimons. The Irish Wayne Schrier in the freestyle. the possible exception of NYU," McConville and McCahey turned in 1never know how good we really are tankers will have record-holder The Panthers are talented in every noted De Cicco. "Fellows gained fine performances. This intense :if w~ didn't do it." I Bob Thompson in backstroke event with plenty of depth. 
1
1

All-American status last spring, competition between men in foil Wtth the talent and promising competition and, along with Kane, The Notre Dame Invitational and Glass has made the Olympic and epee has provided the team the newcomers h,e has to work with, should be the pacesetter of the Meet will begin at 7:00PM at the Trial Team for the upcoming momentum to be super this year." ICoach D~Cicco shoul~'t worry squad. Possibly the strongest Rockne Memorial Pool. Ad-games. With John Stra.uss, This year has a special about testing the best; 1t's only a event will be diving, with varsity 1 mission is free and open to the weapon leader Dave Connors and signifi~ance for the coach of these matter of time1before the best will· • record-holders Mark Foster and · public.' Tom Henzler backing these two up, fencers. "I've worked harder this. ; be Itesting his own Irish fencers. i Bob Ebel returninl!. 



