
OD The Inside 
Soph. Lit. Festival news ... pageS 
Jr. Parents Weekend ..• page 6 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII. No. 77 
Tuesday, February 12, 1974 
h. h dl. Results of o-c
H-man ItS an lng poll released 
of LaFortune plans 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 

SBP Dennis "H-Man" Etienne read a statement to the SLC yesterday denouncing the administration's handling of the LaFortune Student Center renovation. 
"Sorne administrators, one (Fr. Burtchaell) in par­ticular, have treated the students who put together the plans as if they were little children playing in the sand­box." The SLC agreed to invite Burtchaell and the student cor.1r.1ittee to air the issue next week. 
Etienne went on to point out "the enormous amount of work and painstaking effort" that the all-student com­r.1ittee had put in on the renovation plans. "These people put in r.1onths of effort, drew up architectural plans, conducted surveys of student needs, consulted professionals, all on their own time, and th~n one ad-Pinistrator tore up their work and put in h1s own un­supported opinions." 
The statement came when the SLC took up the matter of a student honor code. "Honor is needed throughout this cor.lPunily," Etienne said, " and the students have not been treated h morably. The most disturbing thing about rhe LaFortune affair is that it reflects the administration attitude that the students don't count. The students are going to quit doing anything around here if this is the response they will get." 
not really too serious, "though some students will have to 
iive 111ore than four blocks from campus." 
Both Shilts and Faccenda repeated the University's standing offer of free legal advice on leases and rent­gougers from the o-c office and the law school legal aid group. "The University itself cannot take legal action against gougers," Faccenda explained, "but we will ' advise anyone who asks for help and we can talk to renters 
who have been complained about often." 
Shilts also complemented the Observer on its o-c survey 
and suggested that more people could be reached if he set 
up a telephone campaign to talk to people who had not 
returned surveys. "To date only about a fourth of the o-c 
students have answered." The SLC approved the 
telephone operation. 

The Energy Committee, set up by the University to find 
ways of conserving energy, asked the SLC to sponsor a 
forum to annouce the rules and guidlines. The new rules 
are not yet completely decided upon and will not be final 
for three more weeks. The representative said they might 
include cutting down the use of stereos in dorms. "We 
Pay need a forum to convince the students to pitch in," 
the 1·epresentative said. 

The SLC's Campus Life Committee reported initial 
success in using LaFortune's Rathskeller as a party 
center. According to Dean Macheca Sorin Hall held a 
The student body president rejected the ad--successful party there last week and "while we think 
Pinistration's r.foney argument. "These students took pains to do the job right, and if you are goi!lg to do half a job you r-1ight as well throw the money m the St. Joe River." 
D1·. Faccenda replied to Etienne's statement saying rhat "All Student Affairs Staff members will pledge themselves io any concepts of honor that the SLC agrees upon. Setting up principles for the whole cor.lr.,unily r.1ay be beyond this body's technical power but we can take the initiative." 
-'­

The SLC invited Fr. Burtchaell and the student com-. nittee to next week's meeting to discuss the issue and bring it out into the or~n. If F.r Burtchaell is unable to attend they agreed that Faccenda, Dr. Ackerman, and Fr. Schlaver would explain the administration position. The SLC r.1ay then send a report to Fr. Hesburgh or the Board 
of Trustees. 
The Council also listened to a report on the off-campus situation from Off-Campus Affairs Director Fr. Shilts. He said that his office has prepared a list of available off· campus housing including costs and conditions. 
Copies of the list are available in the o-c office. "We have enough to get the students started." he explained. 
He also reported that the man who is planning to build apartment units near the ACC is confident of getting financing soon. "Campus View Apartments will house about 400 students and the man already has a waiting list," stressed Shilts. • 
Shilts concluded by saying that the housing situation is there were a few problems, they should be fixed without too r.1uch trouble. The ballroom is also a possibility for a r.,m·e formal party." 
At the request of Faccenda the SLC tabled a motion to r.1ake the use of the Rathskeller official for thirty days. "The situation is still experimental," Faccenda ex­plained. "There will be more parties in the next month so we can tell better then. 
The Council also put off consideration of remodelling the gym behind Holy Cross Hall to make it a permanent center·. 
The Campus Life Committee is also conducting an in­vestigation into the background and rationale for parietals. They feel that parietal hours are developing a negative connotation, whereas they were intended to be a positive improvement. 
A full report will be ready by the time the Board of Trustees r.1eets in April. The committee is sending letters to all people who were concerned with setting up the 
present system to get their opinions. 
In other action the Rules Committee reported that they would soon begin considering replacements for the graduating nembers of the Judicial Board and review the procedures used in hearings which they called "nebulous." Following this they will consider the rules and regulations for next year, starting after spring break. 
Prof. Roos suggested that when the rules come up priority be given to the rule on human sexuality "because we did not give full consideration to it." Macheca offered to aid the Rules Committee on this matter. 

Monday's SLC meeting included a strong statement by SBP 

2oo respond 
by Jim Donathen Staff Reporter 
Ed Byrne and Stan Cardenas of Alumni Hall have released the reults of their off-campus questionaire which appeared last week in the Observer. Their efforts, which include a phone canvas of some 100 off-campus residents resulted in the return of 85 questionaires (accounting for some 200 o-c students). 
The questionaires are being filed in the housing office (315 Ad. building) in order to aid students who are searching for living quarters. Students are urged to continue turning in polls to the housing office ,Observer, Campus Ministry,and the Huddle. 
Complaints of the poll incidated the average semester cost for off campus living (food, rent, utilities) take $416.92. per student. The cost breaks down in the following manner: Weekly food cost per student-$12.83 Average Monthly Utilities cost-$34.92 Average r.10nthly rent cost-$201.42 
Terms of Rent 
Of the questionaires received, all houses but three were rented on aninemonth basis. Two houses were rented on 10 r:10nth leases and one was rented on a 12 111onth lease. 
The najority of landlords payed for all repairs excepting three instances in which the residents had to foot the bill. Most of the polls returned gave favorable accounts of the landlords. 
Saving Money 
To save noney, residents offered some gim­r.,icks: Check newspapers for bargains, cook for yourself <dining hall neal plan is most expensive way to eat, $9.16 per weekhuy food in quantity (e.g. buying a quarter or half of beef), plan menu ahead. 
As to utility usage, suggestions included: turning off heat and lights when no one is home, insulating your house if its not done, showering in the ACC and not getting a phone. 
Poll Shows Other Needs 
"The university seems to drag its heels for fear of the nation wide trend of empty dorms striking Notre Dame. I hope they aren't reluctant to help off­campus students because they fear o-c living may compete with dorm life," said Ed Byrne. Students responding to the poll indicated a desire for establishment of a food, co-op, black list of bad landlords, and a system of rating the housing acording to number of occupants and condition of the house. Other suggestions included improved places to go on campus, more extensive housing lists, .:lvertising the best shopping bargains, better r.1eal ticket price. 
University has Responsibility 
"This is a chance for the administration to 
reverse its trend of disregarding the needs of the 
student body. They have a responsibility to help 
those students who are forced off campus," added 
Byrne. 
Byrne and Cardenas expresssd their thanks to 
the Observer Fr. Toohey, Dean Thompson, Sean 
Raynond, and Mr. Edmund Price for the aid they 
1·eceived. 
Proposal for lay university president 
Dennis Etienne regarding the La Fortune Renovation issue. (Photo by Chris Smith.) 
••• page·2 

------~-~------------------­
1. 
Tuesday, February 12, 1974
the observer 
warld 
briefs 
W:;,itington !UPil -Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, convening a conference of 13 big oil-using nations, said Monday the world comr.,unity r.mst cooperate on energy or suffer collective economic collapse. 
Kissinger called for solidarity among petroleum consumer countries against the Arab oil boycott, saying "these global dilePr.,as cannot be avoided through exclusive bilateral arrangePents" such' as France and Japan are trying to work 
nut. 
:\ew York !llPI) -Thousands of independent and company 
•rucks roared across the nation's highways Monday speeding badly-needed r.,erchandise to consumers and virtually ending 'he 12 day drivers' strike. 
The Back-to-work-movement was accompanied by stater.,ents fnJr.' various industries announcing the reopening of p•ants shut by the walkout and the cancellation of plans to close others. 
Lonadon !UPil -Striking r.1ineworkers clashed with safety crews Monday for the second consecutive day in Britain's two­day-old national P'ines shutdown and a miner's leader said 
•hreats have been r.,ade on his life. A group of businessmen ~>ffered ro contribute up to $184,000 in extra pay daily if miners 1eturned •o the pits. 
Prir.1e Minister Edward Heath, who ordered a national L'eneral election Feb. 28 after his last ditch efforts to head off the ~trike failed, lashed out at the opposition Labor party,charging 
•hat ''irs whole axis has swung to the left wing.'' 
Berkeley, Cal. !UPil -The father of kidnapped Patricia Hearst said Monday that if the terrorist Symbionese Liberation Arr·'Y does not hold her captive, "the only other possibility is 
•hat sor.'e absolutely crazy person has taken her and killed her." 
A worried and anxious Randolph A. Hearst, after an agonizing week of waiting, said the lack of communication with the SLA since its initial letter last Thursday was "frightening." 
Annapolis, MD !UPll -Spiro T. Agnew's lawyers asked Maryland's highest court Monday to suspend-the former vice president as an attorney but noUo disbar him as recommended by a special three-judge panel for his no coateatplea-to an in­come tax evasion charge. 
an campus t:aday 
9:00 am -5:00 pm -registration -peace corps and vista reps, lemans hall, smc 
2:45pm-film-civilization series, "the smile of reason," cce theater 
3:30pm -soph lit fest-samuel hazo, poetry reading; cce aud 
4:00pm swim meet-bradley university, rockne memorial 
7:00 pm discussion -great books discussion, room 105 · madeleva hall 
7:30 pm meeting -aaup meeting, habig lounge 
7:30pm-lecture-"women and computers, are those computer people male chauvinists?" by miss patricia costello, carroll hall · 
8:00pm soph lit fest -liberation writer michael mcclure "seeks homeostasis of body and psyche."library aud. 
The deadline for On-Campus Today Information is 3:00 pm on the date prior to the event. 




Valentine's Day Classified Ads 

Tell your Valentine and the world how you really feel 
Ads will be taken in the Observer office 


Today till 5 pm Tomorrow from 10 am to 1 
.. \, \
·~ 

Philosophy or Prohibition? 
Views ~nixed on sexuality issue 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
Confusion continues concerning the meaning of the University's recent human sexuality rule. Members of the SLC who passed the rule had several different opinions when asked about the r.,eaning yesterday. Some felt that it was intended to be a prohibition of premarital sex, others felt it was a statement of philosophy and still others thought it was somewhere inbetween. 
Dr. Syburg, Council chairman, stated that "•he mle was not really intended to have the status of a 
· prohibition. It was more of the nature of the University's position on an ethical matter. As a prohibition everyone agreed it would be unenforceable." He added that the SLC did not make its meaning very clear. "We will have to take it up again soon." <See article on SLC meeting.) SBP Dennis Etienne had a dif·· ferent opinion. "I thought the rule was supposed to be a prohibition even if it wasn't often enforceable. It was to scare students wto needed that kind of a crutch to behave." AU student members of the SLC voted against the rule when it was adopted. Dr. Ackerman interpreted it as 
"intended to be an exhortation." He said that it would have been better to place the statement in the section on general principles in­stead of the section "on rules and prohibitions." 
Dean Macheca said last week that the rule contained "no specific prohibition" but that he would enforce "the long-standing un­written rule" even though the current rule is "the only one standing." Dr. Faccenda, also questioned last week, thought that the rule was intended to state this unwritten rule clearly because there was some confusion on what the University expected. He also stated that the rule is unen­forceable. 
Another SLC member, who did 
not wish to be named, stated that 
"this business of enforcing un­
written rules defeats the whole 
purpose of what we did." 
A check of the minutes of the 
Oct. 1 r.1eeting in which the rule 
was passed showed that the 
Council defeated a motion by 
student r.'emberEd Rahill to drop 
the rule entirely because it was an 
unenforceable statement of 
philosophy. Faccenda argued that 
while it was unenforceable it was 
important to let everyone know 
that the University did nor "con­
done" premarital sex. 

Senate proposal to allow lay ND president drawn 
by Tom Kusso Staff Reporter 
Last Wednesday the Faculty Senate resolved by the vote of 15 to 10 to submit a proposal to the Board of Trustees which would no longer require a President of the University of Notre Dame to be a Pember of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. There was one ab­stention. 
"The statute presently requires the president to be a member of the Indiana Province of the CSC," explained Prof. James Cushing, secretary of the Faculty Senate, who submitted the resolution to the Senate after it had originated in comr.1ittee. "The resolution consists of two parts: The preamble argues that there is no point in arbitrarily limiting the number of people who can qualify for the position. The actual resolution itself asks the Board of Trustees to request the Fellows of the University to remove this restriction." Cushion pointed out that the twelve Fellows hold the final power to change University regulations. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 
46556. 
"In 1968 the Board of Trustees opened its r.1embership to iaymen," continued Prof. Cushing, "and all administrative offices were opened as well, except the Presidency.'' The University Fellows are presently composed of 
one-half esc members and  one­ 
half lay r.,embers.  
Prof.  Haasser  of  the  

Mathematics Department, who is Chairman of the Faculty Senate, comr.1ented that the argument was brought up at the meeting that the rule would change anyway if the proper situation arises. Specifically, he feels that there would be no reluctance to change 
tinued on 
Mr.. -Winicur moved that the original stronger language be struck and replaced by the statement "The University believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage." This motion passed. 
LOWEST JET FARES TO EUROPE 
of any scheduled airline 
from 
from 
NEW YORK 
CHICAGO 
One way to luxembourg through May 31 
Effective for individuals on scheduled jets to Lux­
embourg in the heart of Europe. SAVE $72 to $101 on overseas stays of over 45 days against lowest comparable fares of any other scheduled airline. 
SHOW INITIATIVE! SAVE MORE MONEY! 
Students can arrange their own Affinity Groups of 25 or more passengers and qualify for Icelandic's low­est-cost one-way affinity fares. No other airline of­fers one-way affinity fares. SAVE via Icelandic no mat­ter when you leave or how long you stay. 
SEE YOUR TRAVEl AGENT. 
Prices subject to change. 
To: Icelandic Airlines 630 5th Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020 
(212) 757-8585 
Send folder CN on Lowest Youth Fares to Europe D 


ICELANDIC AIRLINES 
SERVICE SPECIAL 
.... ..... 
.....1111!11'~·~~­
1 WtTM COUPON
• WITH COUPON
:···----~
t ::OjlUPON l : lUKE REUIII& 
: EXCEPT DISC 
'~BAA..S4NO
: MOST : . 


!ii;:!.
. 
~ -. _ FOREIGN CA.AS 
: AMERICAN ~-. : 
. .
. . 
~ CARS : : A.NY 6 CYL. U.S. AUTO : : .• $291!1 
1 ADD$.. FOflt 8 CYL. CARS. 1 1 AIR COHO. CARS $2 MOR£. , 
1
'8.95 l~
: INCLUDES ... LUGS, POl NTS .: : COHO£N5UI. CHECK : 
I tNCLUOES FULL IN­
SP(CTION. FLUID 
'"'~0 CLEAN. WE ALSO
: IF NEEUED :~~~~ET~~!a~::·;:,; : 
...............................f.
_.,___ ···--··--····,-···1 
• • fl-jilt.I;'5¥4CJUIJ.I :; • • ~--··: 
:25.000 MILE GUARANTEE:
·----··-:
AIR MUFFLERS: 
: BUY 3 ~ :
SHOCKS 
$10.95 
j SHOCKS n~~
'32.95 
plus : GET {jj/': ~ installation l 1 FREE ~ ~ 
1 11 
',:,REG. $7.77 EACH',:,
FOR MOST AMERICAN 
INSTALLED
CARS 
························ 
Brand new 4-ply tires 

start at $12.95 
650·13 plus $1.81 tax 
Phone 272-1023 
GlUt P'IHICTS IT CIUP P'IICES IS 1G UAUIJI mru UllT 'llll I, SAT. 'TIL 4 ~-I'IIIIICT$ 11 ~lur P'IICES IS I IUUII 8 TRACK TAPES $2.75 
DISCOUNT TIRE SERVICE 
. . ' 
50695 U.S. 31 lortll, South le11d, IIHN1N

r 
r 
' 
r 

~-~~~---~~------~ 

Latl'ly there has been this thundering rear coming from the direction of the Aerospace Building. Do you know what is cau:-.ing it? 
A )-'raduate student is running a super-sonic x wind tunnel in 'he building for an experiment of his. The speed in the tunnel can get up to as Puch 1.4 or about 800 to 900 r.1.p.h. 
Can you tell ml' whl'n the language lab in O'Shag is open? 
Because of eiass scheduling, the lab hours are confusing and 'hey change each day of !her week. There are three rooms available for listening--they are 201, 202, and 250. In room 250, it is ir.1possible to stop and replay the tape. But for a coPplete lab schedule, consult either your language teacher ~>r call 1he OPbudsman at 7638. 
1\ly portablE' •·adio cannot pick up WSND clearly. Even when I'm in front of O'Shag the station is almost impossible to undt'r:-.tand. Why is this? 
We spoke with an expert on the subject. He told us that WSND is carried over r.10st of the hall's power lines. Most srations broadcast over radio waves, but WSND doesn't. Therefore, the only way to pick up-the station is to either place your radio in a socket or place it near the power lines. 

Mulcahy: No new women without new dormitories 
by Jack D'Aurora Staff Rt'porter 

Fr. John Mulcahy, director of (·ar.1pus 1·esidence, has stated that he is not in favor of inci·easing fer.>ale enroiiPent unless new dor·r.1s are built. According to Mulcahy, "The Office of Student Affairs suggested the building of new dor-r.1s, but the officers of the llniversity consider it unfeasable." 
Next ser.1ester's enrollment will inciude approximately 1,000 wor.,en. but Mulcahy has no idea what the fer.,ale enrollment will be for 1975. Yet he did say th Sr. John Miriar.1 Jones, Assistant to the Provost, "has r.,entioned that the S1udent Life Council had con­sidered increasing the number to 1500 in 1975." 
In that case Mulcahy has no idea where rhe additional 500 women would reside. He speculates, 'hough, that "according to what's happed so far, two r.1ore men's dorr.1s would be converted from 
The problem of housing limitation could be somewhat alleviated with women moving off­campus, as they are now allowed but Mulcahy has received only nine such requests to do so thus far. 
Supposedly St. Mary's has the wobler.1 of vacant rooms. Two years ago Augusta Hall house approximately 100 women but now houses only a small number of nuns. Regina South supposedly has vacancies in its upper floors. Yet Mulcaly doubts the possibility of Notre Dame students ever living at St. Mary's. 
Mulcahy stated that the housing 
office "has limited power" in the 
situation. "It's basically up to 
the President and the Provost. 
::JII' BOAC We still have Youth Fares to Europe Call Clark 234-2098 and save money. 
..
. 
Tuesday, February 12, 1974 the observer 



Consu111er 111ini-cours.es offered on insurance. auto mechanics 
The arts and letters student advisory council has announced plans for the continuation of the rnini-course program. Council President Randles announced that all preparations have been made for the first mini-course session scheduled to begin next Tuesday, February 12. 
Geared especially for liberal arts students, the mini-course concept was originally devised by past council president, Neil Rosini. 
Its express purpose is to provide the student with some exposure in areas not offered by the Univer­sity. 
All courses are free no-credit sessions, open to the public and place no obligation on the par­ticipants to attend every one. The coursses will be given in four sessions from 6:30 to 8:00p.m. 
This year, two major topics have been chosen for discussion. The first will concern the use of in­surance by consumers. Dr. Charles Reddy, Notre Dame In­surance Agent, will conduct the 
r.1 ini-course stressing the "Practicality of Insurance" and will explore various loopholes in some policies. The first session will begin thi~ Tuesday, February 12 in room 202 of the Architecture Building. The remaining sessions are scheduled for the same place 
and  time  on  the  next  three  
Tuesdays.  
The  second  series  will  begin  

sometime in April and is entitled "Rudiments of Auto Mechanics." The four sessions will be taught by DanJohnson, service manager of Romy Hammes Fordland, 244 South Olive Avenue. Numerous 
220 W. Marion 
Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years 
Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 
visual aids will be used in the presentations including movies, booklets, and demonstrations. 
According to Randles, "Last year's response was very en­couraging. Its success lies in the benefits acquired from those who attended." 
Both teachers. were described as "knowledgeable and interesting." Their presentations will leave adequate time for questions from the students. 
--1 
-Elkhart 


Scene from our 1973 NIU Trip. 

in Daytona. 
LIMITED ACCOMMODATIONS Sign up Early SMC 5149 N D 8677 Evenings & Weekends TOTAL PRICE $12450 
the "ACTION TRI PN Join Northern Ill. 
& Illinois State  
USE YOUr  
ma.ster charge  
Tltf  l"tTt R6A"'k (  t'lQ I  MASTERCHARGE  
o ' I  l  I  I  I~ I  I  \  o \  I  \  ....~  ~ 1 \ 0.­~ .. .. ~  t, • I I .. .. . . '  '.'..  

SPRING BREAK ­DAYTONA BEACH 
* March 8-16
* 
Includes all Transportation

* 
Includes all Accommodations

* 
Choice of effie iencies or Regular Rooms

* 
FREE PARTIES WHILE TRAVELING

* 
Disney World Options


*Other Special Optitions
*Free Bar B Ques & Parties 
FLORIDA 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 John Kloos EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
Advertising ManagerBUSINESS: 283-7471 
Tuesday, February 12, 1974 


Two Year Stall 
For the moment, let's forget the fact that it has taken two years and several times that in frustrations. 
Forget again, that particular ad­ministrators simply payed lip service to the students while doing their own dealing. 
And finally, forget that our own student representatives must share a part of the blame because of their tardy awakening. 
Last evening, the two year effort to renovate the LaFortune Student Center by the LaFortune RenovationCommittee finally received the recognition and support it has desperately needed since the fall of 1972. 
Addressing the Student Life Council last evening, SBP Dennis Etienne gave credit where credit was due. The LaFortune Renovation Committee has not been dealt with fairly by Fr. James Burtchaell or by Dr. Phillip Faccenda. The former has simply ignored any student input for reasons of mere distaste while the latter has allowed formal proposals to just ride. 
It must seem inconsequential to the Provost and VP for Student Affairs that at their fall meeting, the Board of Trustees enthusiastically pledged their support to the renovation after the committee's presentation. 
Further, and even more importantly, it must appear to them and the ad­ministration that the effort, time and planning put forth by this committee on behalf of the students over the past two years is really nice--and that's it. 

In what is becoming a continuing, nearly classic, saga, the administration has put down the students whom, in this case, originally began working at the administration's suggestion. 
Belated as it may be, the LaFortune Renovation must now receive the com­plete attention of the administration in cooperation with the students. 
The present LaFortune Student Center is, at the very least, a disgrace to the generous man whose name it bears. Out­dated, dysfunctional, and during most hours, unused, the student center must be given new life. 
As the University continues to re-define rules concerning parietals, alcohol, and parties, the students are going to in­creasingly need an outlet. At other major universities such an outlet is known as a student center. 
The final need and most neglected is that of the off-campus student. If the administration insists on pushing people out of the veritable mainstream of life at this university, the campus, they must concede some semblence of a student center for their refuge. 
People call for patience in big issues like this. But a two year stall is a long time to wait for a project which should stand near the top of this University's priorities. 
Tom Drape 
Not Just Yet 
Without any fanfare, without adequate warning, and without any student input (again), a major decision concerning student life has been made and an­nounced by the administration. The women of Notre Dame now have a modified stay hall system to live with for next year. To transfer from the hall they are presently living in, women will have to choose Lyons. And to gain residence in an established women's dorm other than their own, they still have to choose Lyons­-and hope for an available place after the hall lotteries. This is unquestionably a nifty way to fill Lyons. 
But are the 1,000 women at Notre Dame next year ready for a stay hall system? Not yet. 
Fr. Mulcahy speaks of a stable class distribution in each dorm. This remains irrelevant with the still wide discrepancy in class size. How can women realize a stable hall situation when rectors are being moved around and changed each year and at least one remains to be 
chosen? 
The final and saddest comment on the stay hall decision concerns the way it has been reached. It is very disheartening to see an administration that went out of its way last year to solicit student ideas and cooperation turn its back on those same students this year. 
Women responded overwhelmingly last year and had direct initiative and input in last year's four-dorm lottery plan. This 

year they weren't even publicly asked to 
participate. 

Some students who voluntarily moved to North Quad want to move back. Does anyone care? It doesn't seem so right now. 
-During last year's discussions, students were led to believe they would have a voice in this year's choice of room allocation plan. It appears females are reaching a level of equality with male students. Their opinions are being disregarded in the same blatant way. So what else is new? 
Marlene Zloza 
daanesbury 
Opinion 


Searching for an Answer 
Ed Forest & Tim Takacs 
Fred Graver pointed out in an Observer the unfortunate situation r.>any of us find ourselves in at Notre Dame. Each of us at one time or another has felt lonely and forgotten; an increasing sense of alienation that r.1any of us believe is caused by an unconcerned faculty and ad­ministration obscures the cherished "Notre Dame spirit," the seemingly r.1ythical creed of brotherly love expounded in the University's bulletins and nurtured by its alumni. The cause of this alienation and frustration does not arise from any one source on car.1pus, nor will any amount of complaining remove the problem about which Graver writes. I believe the problem lies deep within each of us: each of us has a real need to care for one another. 
Recently, a friend of r-1ine rer.Jarked, "My roommate has a serious problem, and I had always thought that if I ever got into a situation iike this, I would be able to do something, but now I don't think I can." YouknowPy favorite dreams have always been on a very grandiose scale: I want to save the world, stop all wars, endpollution,help the sick and the poor. It seems as though I am just beginning to realizethat 
•here are things on a similar level of importance which I can do. 
In the future, Py fondest memories of Notre Dame will not be of the athletic leans m· the beautiful campus, but the people I've met here. I wi 11 always wonder whether I could have done more for them, shown I had cared for them r.10re. How many times will I reflect on times here and regret the cold shoulder I had turned towards a friend, or the harsh word spoken to someone I never wanted to know? At times I never would have considered that person a human being with feelings just as sensitive as r.1ine. 
I like Notre Dame, and regardless of my complaints (and they have been r.1anyl, I do feel the time I've spent here has been valuable. I worry over a number of things such as grades, my social situation, and the rest of the imr.1ediate future but I know that they are all needless fears that time and my own efforts will dispel. Unfortunately, sor.,etimes I cannot quite convince myself of this, so I do worry and neglect others around r.1e. I know I care1bout myself more often than others, and that hurts. 
I know that although r.1y part r.1ay be small, I can do something to iPprove tha quality of our lives here. That should not be too difficult either, because J'r,J senstive enough to know that rny dreams are basicaiiy the same as another's that what I need when I'm down and out of it is about what anyone else would need. Now, one obvious solution would seer.1 to be to seek out the lonely and alienated among us. Although this is indeed a commendable ideal, I question whether r.,any of us can really fo this. What I believe is that each individual should sir.1ply find r.1ore ways of giving. 
Surprisingly enough, actions m· even mere gestures which only take a r.1or.1ent can do a lot for someone. The possibilities are dearly Pany; for example, last week when I was kind of down for who knows what reason I received a letter from my sister at college. All 
•he letter said was: I Piss you; but to me she had, in fact, said it all. 
Perhaps r.1any r.1ay take this letter as being overly reflective or sentir.)ental. Ail I know is that as I see the days, the weeks go by, I often feel that I ar.1 r.1issing a lot and that I must try to discover what it is. 

the observer 
Night Editor: J.R. Baker 
Assn't Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley and Bill Murphy Layout: Mike Strickroth, Mark Frazel, 
Dean Janke, Andy Praschak Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza Day Editors: Gary Allietta and Jim 
Rosini 
Typists: Barb Norcross, Tom Modglin, Jeff McPherson Compugraphic: Joe Abell Savior: John Flanniqan 
Sports: Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor Pictureman: Jerome and Albert (Master and Slave) 
r:~arry trudeau 

Itt.. SAY! SVR£. THE WHOfMJ(J/..0 HMM ... IM:)RJ) WENT HAVE 6l/E5S£0 /...OOK5 OIIT TH/3 THE &NtR.GY /..IKE AU WAS601NG CR1515 WA5 THe H&PIA TO/..AYPOWN :J'H 
· 

AU OV&R.? A HeAVIES SOMETHING HIP. RE6tltAR. /JQMI· ARt HeR.£.. 816// 51/EU/ I 
2-1:z.. 

"'------.......=------.... 

--~-----­

,--~----~-~---~--~ 
Tuesday, February 12, 1974 the observer 



hazo and mcclure at the festival today 
nancy cole presents gertrude stein 




The Sophomore Literary Festival goes into full swing today, with two poetry readings by Samuel Hazo and Michael McClure. Both are established poets in their own right, but ihey each represent a dif­ferent style and interpretation of the genre. Samuel Hazo is a Notre Dame graduate, and a distinguished poet who writes in a traditional style. McClure represents the innovative San Francisco Ranaissance gmup. 
Hazo's reading will be the C.C.E. Auditorium at 3:30p.m. Mr. Hazo is the author of several volumes of poetry. His most recentlv published collection of poems, 
Once for the Last Bandit nominated for the Annual National Book Awards. Previous works have also earned nominations for the Pulitzer Prize and the Annual National Book Award for Poetry. Dr. Hazo is currently the chairman of the well-known International Poetry Forum in Pittsburgh. Upon returning to Notre Dame, Dr. Hazo remarked that it was a thrill that he could participate in the festival. He felt that he was invited back as a poet rather than as an alumnus. 

In a dramatized 1·eading from the writing of Gertrude Stein, the American actress Nancy Cole draws a vibrant portrait of the personality, the work and the ·era of the famous authoress. The one-woman show will be presented Sunday, February 17th at 8:00pm in St. Mary's Little Theatre. 
Gertrude Stein (1874-1946) once said the APerica was her country and Paris her home town. Although she spend most of her \ife abroad and returned to the United States 

Samuel Hazo's poetry is not an attempt to achieve the universal and the abstract. Rather it finds meaning the human con­dition as it is. 
Today I smirk at years when men could rhyme their way to God as they could love, beget and die on the !>arne mattress. 
Dr. Hazo has mentioned that he would prefer not to be judged by any preview remarks, but rather on the merits of his poetry as he reads it. 
Michael McClure will be reading from his poetry tonight at 8:00p.m. in the Library Auditorium. An accomplished poet and playwright, McClure's roots can be traced to the "beat generation," which includes such authors as Allan Ginsberg, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Jack Kerouac and Gary Snyder. 
McClure has produced many volumes of poetrv Some of his Q.f.:St known include: Hymns to St. Geryon Meat Science Essay, Ghost Tantras, and September Blackberries 
due to be released within the next month. In his most famous play, "The Beard", Billy the Kid and Jean Harlow act 
only for a short lecture tour, Pennsylvania­born Gerturde Stein never ceased to con­cern herself with America and its language. 
It was she who wrote the libretti of the first r.1odern American operas, stimulated the young Ernest Hemingway to develop his terse prose·style, coined the phrase "The Lost Generation," gathered expatriate and traveling American writers in her famed Paris salon which became the center of artistic and intellectual life between the wars. Her fellow countrymen referred to her as "the Mama of Dada" and "the out an erotic diah>gue which caracatures sex as the saving remnant of our personal lives. He is also the author of Gargoyle Cartoons, a collection Qf one-act plays; and of Freewheelin Frank,Secretarv to the Angels. This is the self;-portrait of Frank Reynolds of the Hell's Angels, "as told to Michael McClure." 
Michael McClure and Robert Creeley, V.:ho gave a reading of his own poetry last mght, ar~ good friends. In September ~Jiacfi!.lerne~ McClure dedicates a poem to Creeley. The poem not only displays the depth to friendship between the two, but is a good example of the extent of McClure's expression of thought conveyed within a 
poem. 
WISDOM AS SUCH for Robert Creeley 
BE HUNGRY 
BITE HARD 
CHEW WELL 
STAY HUNGRY 
HEAD OPEN 
eyes 
ears nose black holes KNOW what you want. GET IT! 
Loneliness is solo like the empty thoughts from flesh. 
Michael McClure was the first of this year's guests to arrive, and he will probably be the last to leave. This is an indication of what this festival means to him personally. McClure is a casual person who is very concerned about the acquaintances which he makes with the faculty and students here. His friendly mannerisms and con­cerned responses to the many questions which have been posed in the past three 
greatest word-slinger of our generation," and her patronage of Picasso, Matisse and others has as profound an influence on the growth of these artists as her innovative aesthetic theoriesand experimental literary techniques had on contemporary writing. 
Like Gertrude Stein, Nancy Cole is American-born but lives in Paris. A painter, actress and sometimes member of the LaMama Experimental Theatre, Miss Cole has played major roles in productions of plays by Jean-Paul Sartre, Samuel Beckett, Archibald MacLeish, Dylan Thomas, W.B. Yeats and others, as well as in several first plays by young poets. Her show on GertrudeStein, which she prepared after three years of research and interviews 
by linda galloway 
with Alice B. Toklas, Henry-Daniel Kahnweiler and other friends of the late authoress, had its first performance on the occasion of "Un Hommage a Gertrude Stein" held in Paris on June 25, 1965. Miss Cole has since taken this show to the Edinburgh Festival, presented it on the BBC hird Programme, and toured with it t(} r.,ajor cities in Europe and North An1erica. Of a tour at American universities she said: 
"Most of my audiences were under 25 and uninfm·med about Stein. But I was given a rousing reception from young people who see the tie wilh cinema technique which Stein's writing approximated, and who quickly likened her words to their owr repetitive rhythms and rock lyrics." 

by tom mcandrews 
days have made him a well-liked figure. But these meetings are merely the super­ficial covering of the poet, because it is his poetry which speaks so clearly of himself. "When I make a poem, I make an extension of myself." His writing demands a self­liberation of the participant and must be read aloud. As with other poets of this San Francisco Group, McClure strives to extend his inner life through poetry. Traditional 
"When I make a poem, I make an extension of myself." 
structures are replaced with more ex­pressive typographical lines. "My unusual line and shape of poems ia a feedback between poems as living beings and knowledge of traditional shapes I believe in inspiration. I am especially fond of wild 
and stars." 
Samuel Hazo 

......--------­
6 

'Real ND atmosphere· awaits junior parents 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Over 850 parents of Notre Dame juniors are expected to participate in the annual Parents Weekend February 22-24 on campus, ac­cording ·to Junior Class President Greg Ericksen. 
The event, sponsored by the University adrninistration and the junior class, attempts to "in­troduce rhe parents into the real Notre Dar:1e atmosphere,", Ericksen said. 
The weekend activities begin Friday night with a hockey game, followed by a cocktail party in the l'oncourse of the Athletic and C'~>nvoeation Center. 
Saturday's events include a presentation of ''Notre Dame in Review." an historical sketch of Notre Dar:1e by alumni. 
Parents will be given an op­portunity to r.1eet with deans ~nd faculty Per:'bers of the various colleges and are invited to an 

-
adf.linistrative reception from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in the Center for Con­rinuing Education. 
Preceding the President's 
Senate votes on proposal 
(continued from page 2) 
the rule if there were a situation in which there is an extremely well­qualified lay nominee and no well qualified esc f.lember. 
''I don't know how the Board of Trustees wiii respond," he con­eluded, "But I don't see how it would Pake a great deal of dif­ference." 
Fr. Charles Weiher, CSC, a philosophy professor and one of two CSC r:'er:1bers of the Faculty Senate, voted against the resolution because he felt that the nove was "based on personal likes or dislikes against a certain esc priest who r:1ay become the next President." He thought the vote was based on a "fear on the part of others.'' 
"Furthermore," Fr. Weiher cor:lPented, "I doubt whether either a layman or even a member of another congregation would ha"ve the devotion to the task as would a Holy Cross priest. Fr. Hesburgh has dedicated most of his adult life to this position." 
"The proposal has been brought up twice before, and neither Fr. Barras <the other CSC member of he Facult Senate) nor I feel that it is terribly functional." 
No one knows what the Board of Trustees will do with the resolution, but there seems to be a eeneral consensus that it will not act in any substantial r:1anner. As for the Fellows, Fr. Weiher said 
•hat all indications, such as Fr. Burtchaell's opening Mass and the Priorities Committee Report,point to a reaffirr:1ation in the role of the Holy Cross Fathers in the University. 
If Notre Dame does have a lay president, will its character change'? 
''Perhaps it would become like other schools which were originally denominationally oriententated," ventured Haaser, "such as Princeton or Yale or Brown. But I really couldn't say." 
"Yes," replied Fr. Weiher, "Notre Dame's character would change slowly. In fact, it would cease to 11ave character." 
Cushing mentioned that the resolution had been brought up at a meeting two weeks ago, but was discusst· : and passed February 6. The Fdculty Senate has no legisla e power to change University rules, only an advisory rote. '• Dinner in the North Dining Hall f.leet residence hall rectors, 

Saturday night, University college deans, and University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh officers. will be the princip~l celebrant of a The parents program will end 
Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Sunday r:1orning at a breakfast The President' Dinner will with no special activities planned provide parents the opportunity to for Sunday afternoon. 

Greg Ericksen, junior class president, gives details of upcoming junior parents weekend. (Photo by Chris Smith.) 
NOW 

ACCEPTING MANUSCIPTS 
(Fiction, Drama, Poetry, Essays, or any work of literary genius) 
AND ART WORK 
FOR SPRING ISSUE OF JUGGLER 
MAIL TO: Editor, Juggler, Box 583, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
or BRING TO: SCHOLASTIC OFFICE · 4th Floor of La Fortune. (Siideitunderthedoor) 
DEADLINE: March 7. 
Assistant Director of In­formation Services Jay J. Kane stressed the opportunities for the parents to discuss occupational 
offerings  with  the  faculty  and  
students.  "By the junior yea r, the  
students  generally  knows  what  


T.•m McMahon General Agent 

N.,rm Wallace 
,_•.fA:.'­
..,.•, ·.. •.._''.1.·,.,
..• ·.·.•.: .•..•.•. \.•_;_-_ 
I
~ r' • ,J :::;:;:::::::: 

T.·m Scl>irr 

Carl'"" Higqenbo'ham 

Chicago 201 North Michigan Ave
' ., San Francisco, 685 Market St. Also Canada. 


India. It's not just another country. It's another world. 
he's going into, so the weekend is slanted toward discussing job opportunities," Kane stated. 
Juniors may still reserve their parents' tickets for the Parents Weekend by contacting Greg Er;icksen at 3680' 
'Tt'araftt'r \ear, 'ieme'iter I after 'iemr'iter, the {'olle~eMa~tt'r" from Fidelit\ Lnion Life ha~ heen the most accepted. most popular plan on campuses all m t'r Amt'rica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity l.Jnion 
{'ollt'~eMaster· 
Field Associate 
in your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend , Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 





The search. 
Some come to find meaning. Not only from the wise men with deep answers. Rut from the country itself with its ancient past and new spirit, and its 
. people in touch with others and themselves. Some come hungry for India's beauty. The storied art and architecture. The pageantry. The incredible landscape. Some come here because it's different. Or because it's far away. Or because others come here. 
What are you searching for? We'll offer you everything to help you in your search. An incredibly low $577 round-trip fare from New York to Bombay or Delhi. Places to eat and sleep that cost less than anywhere (in India the dollar still goes far and $5.00 a day isn't nostalgia, yet). Half fare on domestic air, and rail travel. Wholehearted hospitality. 
We've a Meet-The-People Program so that you can visit with an Indian family if you like. A Student Program to introduce you to Indian students on their campuses. But quite on your own you'll make friends, be offered help and understanding, get invited places. 
We enjoy having you. For more information see your Travel Agent or contact us. The Government of India Tourist Office, by mailing the coupon to the address 
closest to you. New York, 19 East 49th Street. r-------------------,
I I, too, am searching. Pl~ase send me your brochure II tellmg me all about Ind1a. 1 
1  c;: 1 - 
~~  
:  ":  
: Street  :  
1 City  state  Zip  1  
I  I  
I My Travel Agent is  I  

L-----------~-------~ 

.... ..... .... -..' '' ·. ·.· ', ·.'.-; .' .-· . .. ' .· .
\ \ 

Students favor SMC parietals alternative 
-.----­
-------~-­
' i \ • • ; i ~ '~ .: . ,. • • • ... . , • 't .. 
Tuesday, February 12, 1974 the observer 7 ~ .. 
.. 

by Bill Sabin This decision did defeat the because, as one student said, "it while still denying them increased and one of the leaders of the 
Staff Reporter proposal which would have ex­takes the issue out of the hands of visitation rights. movement for expanded visitation 
tended the Sunday visitation hours the Board of Regents and leaves it The r.1ajority of students rights also expressed faith in the 
Despite rumors that a rejection to Fridays and Saturdays, but in with the Admistration, where it questioned, however, expressed decision. She too voiced a high of the proposal to extend male­doing so it nonetheless belongs." optimism. Many had words of opinion of Dr. Henry, and pointed visitation hours would bring a acknowledged support of revised praise for Dr. Edward Henry, out that the change in staff of the
Protest Rumor
negative reaction by SMC women, pareitals for SMC by creating a President of SMC: "He's a liberal Board of Regents may mean nost students there expressed a comr.1ittee to deal with the Apparently this action satisfied and on our side," was a typical significant changes for the 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students


i SAN FRANCISCO J 
who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive·refreshed and on time.

~ MARCH 8 TO MARCH 18 : 
You'll save money. too. over the increased standby a1r fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays.

* d * 
~ $165.00 inclu es ~ 
Anytime. Go Greyhound.
* 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE-ROUND-LEAVE ARRIVE TO WAY TRIP Chicago $5.05 $9.60 9:25A.M. 11:25 A.M. Toledo $8.30 $15.80 9:15 A.M. 1:25 P.M. Pittsburgh $20.40 $38.80 6:20A.M. 5:05 P.M. Milwaukee $8.40 $16.00 9:25 A.M. 2:15 P.M. Detroit $10.65 $20.25 10:35 A.M.4: 30 P.M. 
Ask your agent about addittonal departures and return trips. 
GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 210 WEST MONROE 287-6541 

favorable opinion on the decision question r.10re thoroughly and those who were previously plan­
by the St. Mary's Board of Regents decisively. ning an organized reaction against 
iast Saturday. Many applauded this decision an unfavm·able decision. Sources 
who wish to remain unidentified described plans for a protest which was to occur if the Board rejected the proposal. These original plans were to invite "hundreds" of ND nen into the dorms in open violation of the restriction on male visitations. 
These plans never materialized and some denied that they were even really r.1ade"They were just rumors," said Joanne Garrett. 
Optimism 
But even if there was substance to the rumor, not many regarded the Board's decision as un­favorable. The few that did described it as a "copout,"
wHi pa a m'~~~ norma 
de~igned to appease the students
SMC? It's a matter of discussion right now. (Photo by Dave Daley.) 
Newest law school publication offers chance for experience 
by Ken Girouard is faculty advisor to the Legislative Currently, the r.1ain project of Staff Reporter Bureau. the Legislative Bureau is the The breau is operated by Law codifying or categorizing of the 
A new publication, The Notre School students for academic o1·dinances of St. Joseph County. Dame Journal of Legislation, has c1·edit. It accepts assignments Results of this effort will be been announced by students in the fror.1 legislators, legislative published in the Journal. University's Law School. It will counsel, and public interst groups. 
succeed New Dimensions in S•udents from all three law classes 
Beatles celebrate 
Legislation a periodical published research and draft legislation and during the last three years by r.1ay serve as expert technical t r.'er.,bers of the Legislative advisors in seeing their work pass en years since Bureau. into law. 
The Journal, to be released later Cnr.1r,1enting on the emergence 

American debut
•his ser.1ester will publish bills of the new publication, Owens said, 
drafted by law students, critques "We're ve1·y pmud. Ther are only by students of proposed laws and •hree other schools in the country It was ten years ago today, articles by practicing attorneys •hat have this type of operation." February 12, 1964 that the and iaw pmfessors. The first Aiding the overburdened and Beatles premiered on the Ed volur:H' will include "Handbook on poorly staffed state and local Sullivan Show to American 1 he Drafting Legislation," a legislators is the r.10tivating idea audiences. Four days earler, Paul prnject jointly funded by the Notre behind the Legislative Bureau and McCartney, John Lennon, George Dar.1e Law School and the Law •he Journal of Legislation. Harrison, and Ringo Starr arrived S•udent Division of the Ar.1erican Published each May, the Journal in New York, an event that began a Bar Association. will besentto a number of lawyers, wholer.1usical and cultural change 
Dennis Owens, a second year law state legislatures and law schools. in the nation as these then student at Notre Dame and a As Owens stated, "The Journal relatively unknown mopheadl' ~·raduate of Rockhurst College, has should be a valuable experience became the leaders of rock music been named editor-in-chief of both for us. But it should also be a for the next several years. That 
•he 1973-74 andl974-75volumes. Dr. practical r.1agazine for ideas on the was a full decade ago. Don't you Charles E. Rice, professor of law, drafting and rewriting of laws." feel old? 
***************~ww*************'t**************"""""""**~* 
~ spring break in * 
~ round trip airfare via United Airlines DC-8 ~ ~ * round trip bus transportation for South Bend -Chicago~ ~also available by further arrangement: . * * * accomodations at the Hotel Mark Twain in downtow~ ~ special reduced rates: ~ ~ double at $8.00 per person * ~ triple at $6.70 per person . . ~ * * optional tours in & around the San Francisco Bay Reg1on~ 
*~ LIMITED SEATS AVAILABLE * 
* * 
~ESERV ATIONS AND DEPOSIT BEING TAKEN MONDAVi :FEBRUARY II THROUGH THURSDAY FEBRUARY 14 IN: : :'LA FORTUNE at 12 to 1 om and from 7 to 8 pm : iARCHITECTURE BUILDING (department office) 
r 
response. 
students. "I think we'll have a 

Barb McKiernan, chairman of the 
pareital revision in a month and a 

SMC Student Board of Governance half." 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES FOR SALE 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Austrailia '63 Plymouth: Power, new Europe, S. America, Africa. tires, good condition. Best Students all professions and offer. 8132. occupations $700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, National Championshipovertime, sightseeing, free beanbag chair $18.95, lowest information. TRANS WORLD price in tiown. Order at the RESEARCH CO. Dept. F3, P. senior bar or call 7521. 
0. Box 603, Corte Madera, Ca. 94925. Need ride east on 1-80 to 
Cleveland or Akron. Thurs. or Experienced typist will do Fri. Jim 289-3519. term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-5332. VALENTINE'S DAY 'S 
COMING: Newest fad jewelry.Need volunteer rock band for Cherishable, handmade retarded. Call Mast 234-2101. afghans. 259-1304. 
We Stull have Youth Fares to WANTED Europe!! !Call Clark 234-2098. 
Need ride D.C. or Charlot­We need people who can farm, tesville Va. Spring Break. Call speak Spanish, or French, 8549. teach English or Math, have degrees in history, govern­Housemate share 2 BR house ment, sociology, psychology, Foster Av. (off Angela). 234­counseling, education and 8314. science. See Vista-Peace Corps in the library Feb. 11-15. Need 4 people to share house 
next year. Call 233-9231. GAl N career experience employers demand. We need Broken 10 spd. bike or partsdegrees in business, law, ar­thereof. Chris. 8173. chitecture, economics and engineering. See Vista-Peace Need 1Marcel Marceau ticket. Corps in the library Feb. 11-15. Call Robin 289-5235 evening. 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH USTHIS WEEKEND AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 


£1'Greyhound

: $20 deoosit reauired' non-refundable from 9 am to 5 pm: 
~ A change for the better

* soonsored bvthe California Cloh .. ·.. .. * 
'··~········~···············*•**********************••• 
--------------------------------------~ 

----~-------~---~­
8 





Irish wrestlers fall on hard times 

by Hal Munger 
Three r.1eets in four days is a trying experience for any wrestling squad but it becomes even worse when all three end in defeat. 
Notre Dame's grapplers lived through the disappointing matches (rwo of which were on the road) and emerged tired, a bit sadder, but hopefully wiser. Coach Fred Pechek gave his f.latrnen the day off Monday in hopes that they would recover from fatigue and bnuts with the flu. 
The break enabled the Irish to get their r.1inds off the immediate past and proJect those thoughts to the two upcoming home weekend battles. Victories Friday at 7:30 p.r-1. over John Carroll and Saturday at 1:00 p.m_ over Akron will improve the '73-'74 slate to an unprecedented 12 dual meet vic­tories. Presently a 10-5 ledger highlights Coach Pechek's first year. 
In the ACC last Thursday, Western Michigan outpointed the Irish 24-17 with the highlight of the Patch, for Western at least, coming in the 190-pound class. Notre Dame was down 18-11 going into the last two matches but at 
1:11 AI Rocek was caught in a cradle and pinned. 
Mike Fanning triumphed with his eighth pin in nine victories. The pin came at 3:15 into the match. Fritz Bruening at 150 pounds earned the only other pin, his happening at the 5:51 mark. Steve Moylan won the only other ND victory 4-2, at 126. At 118 Dan Heffernan drew 2-2 with his op­ponent. 
Dave Boyer lost his first dual Peel r.1atch of the year 4-3 at 142 and at 167 pounds Western's Doug Wyn successfully upheld his un­defeated streak. He now has 28 consecutive dual meet victories. 
In Milwaukee ND's wrestlers won but three of the ten matches in a 26-12 loss. Freshman Dan Heffernan was victorious 4-2 and sophmnore Dave Boyer triumphed 6-2. Junior Mike Fanning won his tenth straight contest by forfeit. 
Sunday evening at Purdue the 
Irish were overwhelmed 29-5 by a 
squad who won four matches over 
Michigan, the nation's fifth placed 
team. Despite the score, the 
r.1atches were all close. The lone 
victor for the Irish was Mike Fanning at heavyweight. Fanning ·came through with a 7-3 decision. 
Fritz Bruening escaped with a 4-4 
tie but all the other Irish matches 
ended in defeat. 
The r.1eet Friday at 7:30 in the ACC versus John Carroll is the r.1atch which will key the grap­plers' season. It has been heavily attended in the past and the sup­port will help the wrestlers get back on the winning tack. Saturday again the grapplers will be at home in the Convo. 

by Pete McHugh 
Despite a fine showing in the r-1iddle distance competition, the Notre Dame track team could not 
hold back a powerful Ohio State squad as the Irish placed second in a tl'iangular meet Friday night in Columbus. The Buckeyes finished with 71 points, while Notre Dame edged East Carolina 49-42. 
Digger, 'Goose' in PH Classic 
WICHITA, Kan. --UCLA's Bill Walton has successfully fought back a handful of strong challengers in the West and the Atlantic Coast Conference finds itself at the top in the East as voting for positions in the third annual Pizza Hut Basketball Classic enters its final month. The NCAA and NAIA-sanctioned charity event will be held April! at the Las Vegas Convention Center. 
In the East, North Carolina's Bobby Jones has vaulted into the lead with 21,350 votes, 400 votes in front of Vanderbilt's Terry Compton. The rugged ACC has three players besides Jones in the 
lop six. 
Maryland's Len Elmore (19,532) and Tom McMillen (18,477) are third and sixth while North Carolina State's Tom Burleson is fourth with 19,140. 


Notre Dame's own Digger Phelps will be coaching the East squad April 1 in the third annual Pizza Hut Basketball Classic. 
PUT YOUR SLIDES UP IN LIGHTS!! 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association wants your 35mm Kodachrome or Ektachrome slides for use in multi-media presentaions on campus and in Alumni Clubs around the country. We'll duplicate particularly appropriate slides from your collection and compensate you (modestly) for their use. We e1n use general campus scenes and seasonal shots, as well as slides of hall life, sports, other student ac­tivities, etc. Contact Mike Jordan in the Alumni Office at 7267. Or visit us in the Main Building (second floor, west wing). 

Notre Dame's Gary Novak continues to muster strong support and is fifth with 19,072 votes. 
Walton, who has led West balloting since voting opened in early January, tops all players with 32,708 votes. Kansas' playmaking guard Tom Kovisto continues to remain close, currently resting in second with 29,781. 
Players representing Tulsa, Oral Roberts and UCLA hold other West positions in the top eight. TU's Samr.1y High and Willie Biles are Ibird and eighth respectively, ORU's Eddie Woods and Greg McDougald have settled into fourth and sixth, and the Bruin combo of Keith Wilkes and Tommy Curtis are fifth and seventh. 
The top eight votegetters on each side are extended automatic in­vitations to play in the nationally­televised contest. The remaining two squad members are named by a national media and coaching panel that includes 1974 East pilot Digger Phelps of Notre Dame and West skipper Ned Wulk of Arizona State. Balloting at the nation's 1400 Pizza Huts and participating schools will conclude March 2. 
NOTICE 
SENIOR ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
EIT EXAM A P­
PLICATIONS ARE TO BE RETURNED COMPLETE WITH YOUR FEE TO THE OFFICE OF THE DEAN OF ENGINEERING. 
The Irish, heavy underdogs (70-yard high hurdles), and Mike going into the meet, surprised their Hogan (pole vault). Notre Dame's hosts by taking a 39-38 lead after one r.JiJe relay team (Clouse, Bill the first ten events. Ohio State, Phillips, Bob Schott, Long) also however, swept firsts in the last placed second. five events as they literally ran Other Irish scoring included Joe away from the competition. Yates (4th place, mile), Schott (4th 
For Notre Dame, Mike Housley, place, 440-yard run), Paul Mar-Mike Gahagan, and AI Pulikowski tuscello (3rd place, 60-yard dash r.1ade things interesting in the and 300-yard run), Phillips (3rd early going. Housley, a junior place, 600-yard run), Hurt (4th from Toronto, Ontario, captured place, two mile), and Don Knott the 1,000-yard run with a 2:15.1 (3rd place, long jump; 4th place, clocking ahead of Ohio State's triple jump). Gary Kurtz and Irish teammate This weekend Notre Dame faces Jim Hurt. Gahagan, a potential even stiffer competition as it hosts NCAA qualifier in the 880-yard run the 48th annual Central Collegiate or 1,000-yard run, won the half mile Conference indoor meet. Among event with a 1:55.2 time. the representatives are perennial Pulikowski (6-2, 260lbs.) took shot track powers Southern Illinois, put honors with a 53-2 heave ahead Drake, Western Michigan, and of teamr.1ate Tom Fredricks. Kent State. 
Though clearly outmatched in The r.1eet opens Friday at 4:30 the other events, the Irish were at p.m. in the old Fieldhouse for the least competitive garnering 35lb. weight throw. The other r·unner-up honors in six events. events will be held in the ACC with Ar-10ng the second-place finishers r.10st preliminaries starting were John Long (600-yardrun), Jim Friday at 6:30p.m. and most finals Clouse (440-yard run), Ed Burns Saturday at 12:45 p.m. 
,----~----~------------~ 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF FEBRUARY 19 Sign-up period beRins Mon., Feb. 11 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Interview times must be signed for in person. Hourn are 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday thru Friday. The Placement Manual gives additional information regarding interview 
procedures. 
fEB. 19 Detroit Bank and Trust--All BBA. 
Tues. Equitable Life Assurance Society of U.S.--B in AL,BA,Math. Gen. Telephone & Electronics--B in Acct,Fin. MBA-15 hrs.Acct. Haggar Company--B in AL, BA. MBA. Kawneer/Amax--8 in EG, BA !prefer Mkt.) Naval Ammunition Depot--B,M in EE, ME, MEIO. Pittsburgh National Bank--B,M in BA. Rockwell International--MBA with B in Acct/Fin or concentration. 
FEB.l9/20 Mead Johnson & Co--MBA with B in Mkt or concentration. Tu/Wed. 
FEB. 20 Bradner, Smith & Co--All BBA. 
~ Brunswick Corp--B in Acct, Mkt, ME. Charmin Paper Product Co·-B,M in ChE, CE, EE,ME,MEIO. MBA with B in EG. Procter & Gamble Co·-B,M in AL or BA. Radio Corp. of America--B,M in BA. 
U.S. Atomic Energy Corrmi•sion--B in Acct.,MBA, B,M in EE,ChE,ME. Arthur Young & Co--B in Acct, MBA with B in Acct, JD, 
FEB.2l American Hospital Supply Corp--Bin Chern, B,M in AL,BA,SC, Thurs. ME, MEIO. GTE Automatic Electric--B in EE, Acct. 
Procter & Gamble Co--B,M in AL, BA. Pullman, !nc--B in Acct,Mgt,Fin, ME, EE. Seidman & Seidman--B in Acct. 
U.S. Gen. Accounting--S in Acct, Fin,Mgt. MBA. 
FEB. 22 Browning Mfg,-B In EG. 
~ First Natl, Bank of Chicago--MBA. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp--8 in EE,ME, Met, ChE. National Cash Register Co--B,M in EE, Math/CompSci. Pennsylvania Dept. of Transporation--B in CE. Sundstrand Corp--B in ME •

... 



