
OD The Inside 
Concert reviews ••• page 7 Liturgies at NO .•• page 3 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 25 Wednesday, October 2, 1974 
Faculty Senate sends request 

Asks for $1200 salary increase 
by Patrick Hanifin and Mary Fran Hayes Staff Reporters 

The Faculty Senate will send a request today to the Admministration and the Board of Trustees for a $1200 salary increase for all faculty mmembers. They agreed on the request at yesterday's Senate meeting. . 
Professor Irwin Press, chairman of the Faculty Affairs Committee, reported that smce the University had a surplus of $3 million and since Notre Dame faculty's salary was $1200 Jess than that of their Big Ten colleagues, the Senate was "being reasonable in seeking this raise." 
The Faculty Affairs Committee considered this figure responsible because "a recent AAUP report stated that since 1971-72 the purchasing power of Notre Dame 'faculty salaries was declining due to inflation and that an increase of approximately 13 per cent over last years 5 per cent raise was neccessary for 1974-75 to regain that purchasing power." The statement conceded that faculty salaries at most universities were unable to keep up with inflation, but that Notre Dame faculty salaries are not even "keeping with thesalariesat comparable universities." 

Therefore Press proposed that a statement on faculty salary increase be sent to the entire faculty for approval and then to the Admministration and the Board of Trustees along with the faculty response. Press's proposal opened a two and a half hour debate concerning the wording of the request for salary increase, the credibility of the Senate, and the value of a referendum. . 
It was mentioned that Father Hesburgh, in his speech to be given to the faculty on Oct. 9 might grant an increase of about half the desired amount. In view of this, Senate member, Professor John Lyon of the General Program, felt the faculty would be in a weak position if the Administration and the Board of Trustees did not receive the statement before Oct. 9. Therefore it was proposed that the Senate· send thestatementto the Administration and the Board of Trustees immediately since it would be impossible to get feedback from the entire faculty before Oct. 9, the referendum proposal>houldbe dropped. 
Some members argued that the Senate should consult the entire faculty before submmitting such a request to the Administration and the Trustees to give it maximum impact. 
Others however, pointed out that the faculty in a referendum last Spring gave the Senate the power to act on their own on economic matters. The referendum then supported a substantial raise paid for from the discretionary fund to compensate for inflation. 
The Faculty Affairs Committee considered the $1200 increase responsible 
&rfa::ing of latent feelings? in order to regain part of the purchasing power lost to inflation. 
Opinions diverse over co-ed atmosphere 
by Valerie Zurblis 

panty rid, than to have real communicational in­154 hours out of class. "We have a responsibility to
Staff Reporter 

teractions between people." assist in this out-of-class situation," she emphasized. 

University officials expressed diverse opinions on the coeducational atmosphere at Notre Dame yesterday. The problems discussed included the unequal male-female ratio and the immature at­titudes of some people on campus. 
John Macheca, Dean of Students, said, "The ratio of men to women seems to have helped this situation from last year." Macheca commented that more women were present at the square dance, coffee house, Carney '74 and hall parties. 
Macheca feels the friction between men and women ispossibly a surfacing of latent feelings. "The biggest barrier between the two groups is the ego risk in­vovled," Macheca explained. "It is easier to do something not risky; like writing a letter or l!oing on a 

In the future, Macheca recommended "we have better appreciation for the status of coeducation and try to be sensitive to the progress made to date." 
Assistant Dean of Students Mary McCabe said that developing mental attitudes toward others was the big problem of the controversy. "As we grow, we must find out who we are and then communicate it," she stated. 
McCabe was interested most in educating the students outisde the classroom. She noted that the average student spends 16 hours in class oer week and "We must connect what the students learn in the classroom with their own lifestyles." 
McCabe want to help find constructive opportunities to discuss the problem. She thinks of herself as a resource and coordinator and is open to people with ideas. 
Vice-President of Student Affairs Bro. Just Paczesny would have like to have seen another platform used besides the anonymous letters to the Editor. "It was unfortunate," he said, "that such a debate should come forth from a silly Doonesbury cartoon." 
(continued on page 4) 
HPC recommends endorsement of 1n0re legalized judicial system 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 
The HPC unanimously endorsed a recommendation for a more legalized system of handling University judicial cases in their meeting last night in LaFortune Student Center. 
In addressing the HPC, John Mazza, a first year law student, explained the proposals made last March by the Appeals Board, consisting of Law School Dean Leslie Foschio, Theology professor Dr. Stanley Hauerwas; and Mazza. In a report submitted last year to the Student Life Council, the Board proposed "clarification in the present student conduct code," in addition to having a law student serve as student ad­vocate for undergrads brought before the University Judicial Board and the University Appeals Board. 
"The threat of suspension or expulsion is a threat against a person's civil rights," Mazza told the HPC. He went on to remind the council that the purpose behinrl the Board's recommendations was to maintain "efficiency and fairness in the judicial system." 
The former Appeals Board member pointed out that these recommendations which had been tabled over the summer, will soon be presented to the SLC for review. Mazza then requested the HPC to endorse these proposals. Following some discussion, the HPC unanimously endorsed the Appeals Boardstatement. 
Bike Registration Announced 
Jim Panici, executive coordinator for the bike registration, announced that registration for all bikes not previously recorded with the University will begin Thursday in the dining halls. A one-dollar fee will be char ed for the re istration sticker which is valid in South Bend as well as on the University grounas. Panici pointed out that while registration is not mandatory on campus, any bike ridden on South Bend streets without a valid registration can be impounded by police. 
"Besides, the sticker makes it a lot easier in 
returning stolen bikes that have been recovered," 
Panici added. 

HPC Chairman Bob Howl announced this year's total 
budget allocated by Student Government. The $8500 
for the Hall Life Fund and $4500 for An Tostal reflected 
a slight cut of $300 from last year's budget. Howl 
reminded the hall presidents that all requests shmiid 
be for hall improvements only. The HPC chairman 
also added that budget requests will be reviewed by the 
end of the week. 

The United Way campaign is slated to begin its three 
week drive on campus at Notre Dame-Rice game on 
October 12, according to Howl. Fund-raising methods 
will include selling shamrocks and running hot dog 
stands before the game. Howl asked that each dorm 
contribute at least $100 to the cause. 
"Quickie" Revised 
Bill McLean, student ombudsman, addressed the Council concerning the new weekend "Quickie" shuttle 
service. A revised schedule will be announced 
Thursday in the dining halls, according to McLean. 
Howl concluded last night's meeting with 
congratulations and thanks to the hall p.residents from 
Dillon, Howard and Morrissey for the party their halls 
co-sponsored Friday night in Stepan Center. The HPC 
Chairman went to call for similar hall-sponsored 
events. 
the observer 
·-\ .... ~-~'t---·--t-• ­

warld briefs 
Washington UPI-The Senate defied President Ford's threatened veto Tuesday and approved legislation to ban all military aid to Turkey because of the Turk's use of U.S. arms in Cyprus. The State Department warned the action could also cut off arms shipments to Israel. 
Was~ington _UPI -The chair":Ian of the Senate Republican Policy Co':flmittee sa1~ Tuesday he w1ll push for public hearing on a bill which would g1ve the government sole possession of Richard M Nixon's Watergate tapes and document.o;;. · 
Venezuela UPI-Venezuela Tuesday hit U.S. and other foreign oil companies with a $440 million retroactive tax bill in a move aimed at keeping companies from passing on the additional taxes to 
consumers. 
Phnom Penh UPI -Cambodian government troops claimed 500 Communist soldiers were killed Tuesday in heavy fighting near besieged Kompong Chhnang, 57 miles northwest of Phnom Penh field reporters said. ' 
Washington UPI -Twenty-two big-city mayors Tuesday joined business and labor leaders in appealing personally for President Ford's support of $600 million in emergency federal aid to mass transit systems.
Mayors Abraham Beame of New York, Richard J. Daley of Chicago , Joseph L. Alioto of San Francisco and Ford Motor Company chairman Henry Ford II were among those meeting with Ford at the White House. 


an c:ampus taday 
12:15 pm--seminar, "the decontamination and antllukemlc chemotherapy of akr mice," by dr. kunwar k. srlvastava, lobund lab, galvin life sciences center, rm. 102, coffee and sandwiches in rm. 109 at 11:45. 
1:15 p.m.--seminar, "flllnear systems: genesis and development," ronal p. mohler, oregon st. unlv., rm 201 engin. bldg. 
3:25 p.m.--lecture, "clnterlng," by prof. george c. kuczynskl, room 269, chem engin bldg. 
5:00 p.m.--film, "slat of the earth," eng. aud., black and chicano studies film festival. 
6:30 p.m.--meeting,nd sailing club, rm. 204 eng. bldg. 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, american scene series, "radical economics: what is its contribution?"by campbell r. mcconnell, unlv of nebraska. carroll hall, madeleva memorail. 
8.00 p.m.--philosophy perspective, "the limits of prudence," by bernard williams, falvin life aud. 
11:00 p.m.--south quad liturgy, howard hall chapel. 

Bepubliccm club 



To pass out literature 
by Matt Yokom Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame College Republican Club Chairman Leo Buchignani reported yesterday that the club will be passing out buttons and literature for Republican can­didates when Republican Senatorial Candidate, Mayor Dick Lugar of Indianapolis comes to speak at Notre Dame tonight. 
The main thrust of the club's campaign efforts this fall will be the Senate race, Buchignani said. The object of their activities will be to show support for Lugar. Lugar will meet with club members when he is here, Buchignani stated. 
This past weekend Buchignani reported that the club passed out 1600 pamphlets for Lugar at the Purdue-Notre Dame game. Buchignani felt that this was an excellent time to do so since both schools are from Indiana. 

Future projects include bringing republican candidates for the state house and county commission to appear at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Buchignani felt that the recent voter registration drive by the student government will increase the willingness of candidates to come to Notre Dame. 
Buchignani pointed out that the club at Notre Dame is one of about 12 loosely organized college Republican clubs in Indiana. "The club at Notre Dame is pretty much independent-no one is telling us what we have to do" he said. 
The object of the campaign ef­forts this fall are the normal political activity of "finding out where the support is, where the undecided people are, convincing them and getting them all out to vote" Buchignani said. 

,...~~.-.,~~-------------------------~
w * 
I
f-­
SMC

THE AT R E 
1974-75 Our Ninth Season 

Fcz:ulty Senate 



Cozmtlittee advises change 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

A Faculty Senate Committee has advised the Notre Dame ad­ministration to review its policy of giving employment preference to Catholics. 
In a report dated Sept. 23, the Committee on the Legal Im­plications of Religious Preference in Employment at Notre Dame stated the policy indicated by the Committee on University Priorities <COUP) report may contradict Executive Order No. 11246 and thus endagner federal grants and contracts at the University. 
The executive order requires all institutuions with federal contracts to pledge that they do not discriminate in employment on the basis of racer, color, religio nationality or sex. ' 
The COUP report on "Catholic Character" recommended "that the University have a faculty and a student affiars staff among whom committeed Catholics predominate. If the University is to have a Catholic character it is obvious that all who play a r~le in recruitment should exercise care to attract and appoint. .. those who are articulate believers." 
The COUP report continued "Appointments to the faculty <should) continue to be offered by preference to competent members of the Congregation of the Holy 
David Carradine 
to perform concert 
David Carradine, star of television's "King Fu" series will 
. ' 

appear m concert at Morris Civic Aud!torium Saturday night. With Carradine will be Water a six-I?a.n_ . musical gro~p
spec1ahzmg m folk rock and rhythm :: UL..A: HEALTH INSURANCE § 
and blues. The group includes § § Carradine, his wife Barbara § 5 Seagull and Carradine's brother § 0 c t. 6 De ad Iine = 
Bobby. 5 :: 
Carradine, who is leaving "Kung ~ ca II 2 8 3 -6 1 1 4 ~ Fu" in January plans to devote § § mor~ tih":Ie f~o film-producing and § 1 2. 1 M W F 1 _2 T. T h §mUSIC, IS Irst love. $ 5 . Car_radine's South Bend concert § R0 0 m 1 0 2 Infirma r § ~ ~emg Np~om ~ted by James A· ifilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllntHHIHIIIIIIIItHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDr.llllllllllllllllllllllllffl 
~a~r~di~erewilfm;!r~~~a~~ice ******+:****************************** 
*

Saturday at 7 and 10 p.m. Tickets ~ for . the concert are $5.50 and * available at the Monis Civic * 
Auditorium Box Office, Music * Land, and Boogie Reco..ls. 
i 

The Observer is publiShed dally * durin'? the college semester except * va~allons by the stuaents of the * Untversity of Notre Dame .,.,d St * Mary's College. Subscriptions * may be purchased for S9 per * semester ($16 per year) from The .L Observer Box" Q, Notre Dame ~ Indiana 46556. Second clas~ * postage paid, Notre Dame lnd * 
46556. • • * 
* 

RESERVATIONS 284-4176 
Student-Faculty 
ND-5MC Staff 

$t.so 
Cross." 

The Faculty Senate report listed 
three options for the University if 
discrimination by religious af­
filiation is actually practiced at the 
school. They are : 
"It may amend its policies so that religious affiliation is an imperceptible or negligible in­fluence on hiring, reappointment, tenure and promotion decisions." 
2. 
"It may seek to have the ,exemptions provided by the Civil Rights Act extended to the Executive Order." The 1964 Act exempts all religious educational institutions from penalties arising from discrimination by religion. 

3. 
"It may persist with the policies spelled out in the COUP Report and thereby incur the risk problematical in extend of litigation and the loss of federal funding." 


The report noted that much of 
the findings of the committee are 
speculative since there have been 
no test cases involving alleged 
religious discrimination. 
Also, no action will be taken to 
insure conformity to the Executive 
Order until a formal complaint has 
been filed, the report stated. No 
such compalint has yet been 
lodged on this campus. 
The Faculty Senate Report 
concluded that the University 
should inform non-Catholics if 
Catholics are given preference for 
certain positions. The report also 
mentioned the possibility of 
examining the issue from ethical 
and administrative standpoints. 
Fr. James Burtchaell 
University Provost, commented ~?at ~he Faculty Senate report was lllsenouslv flawed." Refusing to 
__111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
§ LA5T OiAJ\ICE TO PlJRI'"1....J "-~E § 
:: u-11"""\J = 
~ sr• reNT ~ 
* 
i ~ * 
* 
! 
,oneer 

SAT. OCT. 26 
* NOTRE DAME 
elaborate on the report's flaws, Burtchaell stated only that the alleged religious bias is a "com· plex matter." 
The Provost added that religious preference in hiring at Notre Dame wold have no adverse af­fects. 
Burtchaell said his attitude on the "Catholic Character" has not changed since his Septermber 10; 1972 sermon at Mass opening the academic year. In the sermon, he observed, "If Notre Dame is to remain Catholic, the only in­stitutional way for assuring this is to secure a faculty with prominent representation of committed and articulate believers who pur­posefully seek the comradeship of others to weave their faith into the full fabric of their intellectual life." 
Faculty Senate chairman James Cushing said faculty opinion on this and other related issues would be expressed at the Faculty Senate meetings. Cushing added, however, that the Academic Council would have the legislative responsibilities in the situations. 
Issues of alleged religious bias, unsatisfactory decisions on ap­pointments and promotions, and distress over the current University budgetare"all facets of one issue," according to Cushing. That central issue is the gover­nance of the University, he noted. 
"Who decides University policy?" Cushing asked. "Who should be involved in the decision­making? These are complicated issues and it is unlikely that people with such divergent views will change their minds overnight." 
The Faculty Senate failed to discuss the issues at their meeting last night. 

1 n ~aekson ~ 
.-; t ~ *
*

,.~
.,.,.ive ! 
j: ATHLETIC AND ~ 
; CONVOCATION CENTER ; 
~ TICket Prices: Tickets on sale: * lt Bloleawtcrhera!na(fron(r'eo&r rsetoogre't)og·e·) •• •• $5$6..0050 NOTRE DAlE, A.C.C. Moo.·Sot. 9 to 5 !!: •• R b rt ' ~ 
~ Floor·---·-·········----$7.50 0s' ~on s South Bend & Conc<>"dMoll *
* Loce ••••••••••••••••••• $7.50 L oseph Bankond branch•• !
* Platforw~s ----.---•••• ---$1.50 First Bank Main office only ~* Low• ••• (front sfoge) •••• $7.50 Elkhart Truth * 
* : 
*
*
* 
!!: 
~
!!: 
"'~""
*
*
* 
* 
•~ 
* 
~ 
* 
~ 




8:30 P.M. ! 
* 

LOOK HOMEWARD ANGEL 
I 

Ketti Frlngs' Pulitzer Prize play based on the novel by
Thomas Wolfe. 

Oct. 4, 5, 10, 11, 12 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
........................................~·····················~··••+•••···¥1 





Varied liturgies prevail at ND 
By Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 

Liturgy at Notre Dame is extremely varied in style and format. Amidst this diversity is there any unity?; any common purpose? This report follows a series of interviews with religious ministers and liturgists at Notre Dame. These men attempted to explain their vision of the role liturgy plays in campus life. The report that follows is an attempt to explain that vision. 
10:45 vs 12:15 

By the end of any given day on the Notre Dame campus, at least 25 liturgical services have been of­fered. On Sundays this numberincreases to almost 40. The styles of these services range from triumphant to intimate. 
At 10:45 a.m. on Sundays, for example, a traditional catholic high mass is celebrated. The mass is characterized by organ-hymns, incense and solemn procession. 
Both at Notre Dame and outside this mass is con­sidered a contemporary high-church classic. Father William Toohey describes it as "combining the best of catholic tradition with the best of modern in­terpretation." The mass is popular and attended regularly by a cross-section of students, faculty and Notre Dame employees. 
Immediately following the 10:45 a.m. is the 12:15 mass, which exemplifies the opposite extreme in liturgical style. This mass, said weekly by Fr. Toohey, stresses informality. Participants sit on the floor and exchange introductions before mass begins. While reciting the Our Father everyone joins hands in a circle about the altar. Songs sung during mass are ac­companied by electric and folk guitars. 
Like the 10:45, Toohey's mass is popular and well attended. Regular participants range from St. Joe high-school students to Toohey's 85 year old mother. 
The contrast in style between the 10:45 and the 12:15 masses is symbolic of the variety of liturgy present in general on the Notre. Dame campus. But is there any common purpose underlying these diverse liturgies'? 
Liturgical Themes 

Amazingly, there is. Although the office of campus ministry does not issue any directives as to how, or with what goals in mind, campus liturgies are to be offered, a spontaneous common understanding of what liturgy is all about at Notre Dame does seem to exist. In the interviews I had with seven differentliturgistson campus, the same ways of describing their work came up repeatedly. 

Toohey, for example outlined two functions of liturgy. "First, in liturgy we come together to celebrate what is already a fact -that we are one people with one common Father." he remarked. "Second, in liturgy we attempt to draw ourselves and other men beyond our present state, toward personal growth , and toward a world of justice and peace. •• 
Jim Shellman, assistant director of the 10:45 Sunday mass, responded similarly. "Liturgy is the coming together of the Notre Dame community, to become a church -through worship," Shellman forwarded. 
Brother Joseph McTaggart emphasized the personal and prayer aspects of liturgy. "Liturgy and prayer are fundamental," McTaggart ventured, "each of us in our heart of hearts sees a void which I think points ultimately towards our need to establish a relationshipwith God. 
Most direct in his responses to questions about the purpose behind liturgy at Notre Dame was Fr. Robert 
Griffin, university chaplin. Griffin smiled and said "In liturgy we are not trying to do anything but wor: ship God." · 
In general, it seemed that the responses of religious ministers and liturgists on campus fell under four basic themes. Liturgy as community ·celebration· as worship; as a means towards growth; and a~ a ;response to basic human needs. 
If there does seem to be a concensus of opinion amongst campus personnel concerning the function of liturgy, it is far from being shared by conservative churchmen outside Notre Dame. Last year, Edward Drinkard, in a Feb. 14 article of the "Sunday Wan­derer" branded Notre Dame a liturgical cafeteria.' Drinkard reprimanded the university for the wide­spread and allegedly illegal practice of communion in the hand, which he claimed violated the decisions of the National Council of Bishops. 
Responses of campus ministers to the Drinkard accusations were varied. Fr. J. McNally noted the "understanding and kindness" of Bishop Pursley in not "forcing" adherence to the council's dedsions. Toohev recalled the "Wanderers " extreme rightwing posture. 

the observer.

4 

"' .~ .


ID physician 
Jkhninistration reacts 
(continued from page 1)

Woman lights IRS oo taxes 
i~
I, 
It ,,·I 
f. 
I'' !H 
;n,! 
~~ 
!~ 
., 
,.
'· 
:I 
!·

When will tickets to the YES concert be on sale and when is the concert date? 
T~ckets for the YES concert scheduled for Thursday, November 14, will go on sale on Monday, October 14. Tickets will be $6.50, $5.50, and $4.00. 
Who is in charge of the bike registration. Security? 
Security has turned the project over to Jim Panici now. He can be reached at 289-6726 for any questions concerning where and when yo.u can ~et your bike registered. All hall co-ordinators working on this proJect are reminded to get in touch with him by Thursday noon. 
I had some excess paint left over from painting my room. Can I turn it in over at Maintainance? 
You can turn in your excess paint at maintainance, but if you are in alazymood, or you have some very serious studying that must be done right away you can tum it in to you hall's head janitor. The last day for turning in paint is October 4. 
Was the Ombudsman Service only a temporary organization? I tried calling on Tuesday and no one answered. I personally feel that it should be a full time organization. 
The Ombudsman Service offers its facilities to the Notre Dame community all year long. The problem on Tuesday was that they werevictims of circumstance --the phone was out of order. It has now been fully repaired and is open for any of your problems on weekdays from 9:30 to 5:00 and on Mondays through Thursdays 
evenings 9:00 to midnight. 
Will the "Quickie" shuttle bus be running this Friday? 
So far there has been no confirmation on the continuation of it, but its future appears bright. If it is running there will be an an­nouncement in the dining halls on Wednesday. 
I heard that Getting Straight will be playing on campus. i!t this true? 
Getting Straight will be shown this Thursday, Friday, and Saturday 
at the Knights of Columbus for $1.00 (members will be admitted in 
free). 
The Ombudsman phone number is 7638 

name Without accusing me of 
anything." 
"What the IRS is doing is en­
tirely illegal. They were in­
timidating my bank into giving 
information about my account. 
They tried to get the information 
by giving the bank a summons not 
issued through the court." ' 
"I'm very concerned," she 
added, "about the awesome 
powers that have been granted and 
taken by the IRS. The IRS is 
taking over the power of the courts 
by issuing warrants and sum­
monses without going through the 
courts. 
"Do we have a constitutional 
republic with laws that protect the 
citizen from the powers of the 
government or is any citizen 
subject to the harassment of 
federal agencies at the pleasure of 
the agency?" Calvin asked. 
"In our country," she continued, "there are two kinds of law, legislative law and administrative law. The income tax amendment is the legislative law that allows the federal government to collect income taxes. There is nothing wrong with administrative law if it does not conflict with legislative law, and legislative law is lawful, if it doesn't conflict with he con­stitution. 
Asked if she wanted no taxes at all, Calvin said, "I don't have any quarrel with paying an income tax but I do have a quarrel with amonstrous agency which robs the poor and pays the rich. I will file a tax return as soon as I understand the IRS code. I've seen too many of my friends victimized by trying to comply with what they were told was the IRS code. At this time, I still don't understand it." 
Calvin said she started looking into IRS activities when the IRS claimed that she owed $35 for her '70 taxes. "I refused to pay it, because I knew I didn't owe it. I asked for an explanation on why I owed the money. The IRS didn't answer and it began to harass me for payment. Several months later, I paid the $35, but as far as I'm ~oncerned, it was extortion," Calvm stated. 
"One of the reasons I'm in­terested in this," he added, is to get a cure for inflation. I'm interested in obtaining a just tax system because it can curb inflation." 
Discussing her past taxes, Calvin said, "When I paid taxes and made payments to the IRS, my returns were never questioned." 
Concerning her future fight, Calvin said, "I will go to jail before giving up my rights." 
A. repr"o;;entative of the IRS was contacted. Hesaid that he could not discuss the reasons for the investiagation. 
Jones stressed that it will take time before the 
coeducational environment is accepted. "You must 
ease into the situation," she said. "We must learn to 
appreciate one another. 'Co' means we have to do it 
together." 
"The challenge is here and we've got to find ways to 
make use of that challenge," stated Jones. 
Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of Staff Development 
for Student Affairs, wasn't surprised at the letter 
response. "Doonesbury illustrates a comical satire on 
out times. This strikes Notre Dame uniquely and one 
could almost anticipate a reaction," he said. 
Ackerman hinted that the "cattle drive" letters of 
last ~~ar a~d .the J?oonesburyincidentare symptoms of 
tansihon difficulties from an all-male institution to 
~oed. To go to 1100 women in three years is a big
Jump," he stated. 
"Letters bring up the problem, not only at Notre Dame, but at large in our society," added Ackerman. Ackerman stressed that visibility and attitudes are t~e mai~ proble~s. ."Women aren't seen enough in high positions, either m the administration or Student Government,"he noted. "They need more visibility." 
"The attitudes towards men and women have to 
change," continued Ackerman. "More has to be done 
than correcting 'Notre Dame men' to 'Notre Dame 
men andwomenln speeches. Attitudes are a changing 
thing and take time." 
Oaczesbt syggested a practical approach to the 
problem. He considered looking at academic courses 
facilitiates, activities, and athletic programs to in: 
volve more women. 
The Vice-President explained what can be done to 
improve relationships to a truly coeducational in­
stitution. "The answer is with the students, guys and 
gals. Everyone must give in and accept one another," 
he added. 

Paczesny also pointed out, "It would be great to 
remember this school is named after a woman." 
Sr. John Miriam Jones , assistant to the Provost was 
disappointed in the level of exchange in the editorials. 
She termed it as "immature and pretty juvenile" and 
also felt it was worse than the "cattle drive" exchange 
last year. The "cattle drive" letterswerewritten last 
spring by students upset by the bussing in of girls from 
other colleges for Mardi Gras weekends. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LANSING 
c~rdially invites all alumni, students, their famllles and friends to a Pregame Party before this year's Notre Dame · Michigan State game. 
Pretzel Bell Restaurant Trow~ridge Rd. and 1·496, East Lansing, Mich. Friday Evenmg, October 4, 1974, 8:00 P.M. 
Admission: $1.00 per person 
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 
Dr. Helen Calvin, university 

physician, and her husband are 
being investigated by the Internal 
Revenue Service. 
Calvin, an unsuccessful con­tender for the Democratic nomination for U.S. Represen­tative, said she has no filed a tax return for three years. She claimed her constitutional rights are being violated and that she is being harassed by the IRS. 
She gave two reasons for not filing a return. "First, we can't file a retun without giving up our constitutional rights. If we file a tax return, the information put on it can be used to incriminate us." 
Calvin cited the case of Machetti 

v. lJ.S. as a precedent. The Supreme Court ruled that Machetti, a gambler, didn't have to sign a tax return since in­formation required on that form would be incriminating. 
"Furthermore, the 1040 'con­fession sheet' doesn't state the individual's rights like the Miranda decision. At the bottom of the form, it says you are subject to the penalty of perjury if any in­formation listed Is incorect," she noted. 
"I object to this," she added, "because the tax return is not a sworn statement. Therefore, you can't have perjury. This is mainly a technical reason for our not filing a return." 
"The second reason," she continued, "is that the tax return calls for the number of dollars we've made. We don't know how many dollars we made because, by law, a dollar is defined as a specific quantity of gold or silver. The federal reserve notes are not dollars. We have been trying to find out what a dollar is, in terms of the currency that is presently being used as money." 
Calvin explained that she and her husband recently bought some silver dollars from the U.S. treasury. "We paid 15 federal reserve notes for every silver dollar we received. Now we know what the value of a dollar is in relation to federal reserve notes. We now plan to file an income tax return on the real value of the paper currency which we receive," she said. 
Accuses IRS 
Discussing her case, Calvin said, "I'm being investigated for the years 1971-72-73. I was not em­ployed in the years 1971-72 except on an occasional day to fill in for some doctor. I was not employed during these years until I came to Notre Dame July 1, 1973. The only charge the IRS can make is willful failure tofile a tax return." 
Calvin accused the IRS of violating several of her rights. "They have tried to search my confidential records by using scare tactics, and they have smeared my 

Wednesday, October 2, 1974 the observer, 5 
.................... ..., II II 

Paneldiscusses Year oftheWoman 
presented a panel called "The Presley concert," according to Speaking at the program were Women's Political Caucus and By Mary Reher Year of the Woman," on women's Rachel Weinstein, vice-president Pat Crosson, a psychologist, program moderator. Staff Reporter activism. of the Ladies of Notre Dame and Nancy Kommers, president of the Ford focused on women's program chairman. League of Women's Voters of aspi:ting rol.e as deacons centered 
Last night in the Library The program started a half hour The reading of four poems by South Bend, Dr. Josephine Ford, in Belgium. She stated,"l hope to Auditorium the Ladies of Notre late, "due to the rainy weather Father Leonard Ward, a retired professor of theology, Dr. Carol see many men giving their homage Dame, faculty wives and other and the parking problem created university professor, opened the Moore, professor of history, and to femal bishops in the future." women from the University by those attending the Elvis program. Jane DuComb, state head of the Moore said women were 
previously so preoccupied with "catching a man that we have lost Tonight at Bp.m a sense of sisterhood and taken on a label of pettiness." There is a disunity among women of older generations who once viewed each 
Senate candidate Lugar speaks 
other as competition for men, she claimed. There is an alienation between these women and younger 
By Bob Radziewicz since his election in 1967. His ef­crmctzmg campaign tactics by the endangered or where malfor­
women who are leaning away from 
Staff Reporter ficiency in public service was two Hoosiers, Lugar maintains the mation is predictable. "The 
the competition spirit to settle
recognized by former President campaign is issue-oriented rather Supreme Court is far too liberal in 
down.
Richard Lugar, Republican Richard Nixon, who called Lugar than based on "mud-slinging". its abortion decisions,' Lugar 
To achieve unity among women,
candidate for the U.S. Senate from his "favorite mayor". Lugar has continued to attack stated. 
Moore recommends trying to
Indiana, will bring his campaign to Bayh's expenditures in an in­Mayor Lugar felt that President 
establish communication between
unseat Seant{)t' Birch Bayh to the flationary period, stating that Gerald Ford did not use "proper
The Indianapolis mayor is now 

all women.
Notre Dame campus tonight at waging a strong campaign against Bayh has been "voting for more legal course" in pardoning former 
Following the speakers was a
8:00 p.m. The former Rhodes expenditures than did Congress as President Nixon. The Hoosier
the incumbent Bayh for that 

question and answer period
Scholar is scheduled to speak in a whole." sympathized that Nixon had
Senate seat. His criticisms and 

allowing the Ladies of Notre Dame 
Stepan Center in this Student countercharges of Bayh 's Other issues Lugar is basing his already "paid the highest price 
to join in discussion with the
Union Academic Commission 
senatorial record were highlighted drive for the senatorial seat on possible." 
speakers.
sponsored event. in a televised statewide debate last include a calling for more limited Lugar has come out against 
Before the meeting adjourned to
Lugar is presently mayor of September 1st. Yet despite these laws allowing abortion only to stiffening gun-control laws. "The 
a tea in the Library Lounge,
Indianapolis, where he has served cases where the mother's life is government should try to reform 
several general announcements
the criminal justice system and 
were made, including an appeal
lower the crime rate," he said. The Debate club excuses Indianapolis mayor also strongly from Sr. John Miriam for lady 
volunteers to act as represen­
favored the Equal Rights 
tatives of the group in the five
Amendment for Indiana. He has 
women's dorms and establish a
since encouraged ratification of
Librarycriticizedlordeficiencies 
liason between the coeds and the
the ERA by the state legislature. 
Ladies of Notre Dame. 
Because of the apparent lack of library "receives part of the output 
Rv Don Reimer these government documents the of the superintendent of
Staff Reporter only way to get these materials is documents. However, because 
to write to a congressman, Notre Dame is a private university 
The Memorial Library was 
Borkowski explained. This the librarv is not :> ~ompletecriticized yesterday for process, however, takes much depository~, He added that a
deficiencies in certain types of time and effort. needed document can be obtainedmaterials. John Borkowski, 
within several days.
Secondly, Borkowski com­

THE
director of the N.D. Debate Club 
Sparks explained that due to the
mented, "the recent issues of apointed out that the library has two 

constant change in the publishing
number of less popular magazines major inadequacies from the 

industry the library's collection of
are not available on either 

WJ:NEBY
standpoint of his club. 
periodicals is always shifting. The
microfilm or in bound copies. It 

First, stated Borkowski; "The seems that these magazines are publications merge, cease 2426 LINCOLNWAY. WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 
publication or come in to existence TELEPHONE ~library is no longer a government being kept out of circulation for 
at various points in time.
depository, receiving a steady some reason." 
All the Finest European Ch•eeses
In reference to such practices as
influx of government documents." David Sparks , director of 
the reduction of lighting and the
Borkowski emphasized that, libraries, replied to the criticism Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods 
lowering of temperatures in the
"The debate club's major need. is by pointing out that the library is a Oriental Cooking lngredie1'ts
building, Sparks commented that.
government and congressional ''partial government depository.'' 
these action!:. form, "a con­Cheese & Fancy Foodrecords." Sparks emphasized that the 
siderable contribution to the 
lo.% Discount to Faculty & !itudents
saving of university fuel." By not turning off the fans in the French Bread & Croissants library at ni&ht, they are able to New York Cheesecake
FelloVliShips available 
save from 10 to 12 hours of 
Greek Olives
operation, Sparks explained. 
The Fellowships are awarded for Although this action might Teas 
by Mike Hellinghausen the academic year and are based possibly endanger the books, 
Staff Reporter on individual need. They may be through evaporated water in the 
renewed until the completion of the air, Sparks commented that this 
Applications for the Danforth degree for up to four years of action saves valuable resources of Fellowships, which will be study. The amount awarded per the power plant. awarded in March 1975 by the year may not exceed $2025 for Sparks stated that better Danforth Foundation of St. Louis, single students and $2200 for knowledge of the library system Missouri, may be made through married students, plus tuition, would increase ones ability to Professor E.A. Goerner. Students fees, and child dependency obtain needed materials. "There who wish to be considered must see allowances. are enormous resources," Sparks Goerner in his library office before Goerner may be reached at G-added, "all it takes is knowing how the fall semester break. 106 in the Library or by calling to find them." 

November 4 is the deadline for 7383. applications at Notre Dame. 
• RAYORTIZ
The Danforth Foundations, created in 1927 by the late Mr. and ,~ EXISTS. Mrs. William H. Danforth, is devoted to the aid and en­
·_,"",, ; ' HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!
couragementt of students, to the 1emphasis of the values arising . (now you can buy from a democratic and religious your own · tequila) heritage and to the strengthening of the quality of education. 
The 100 Fellowships are open to qualified personns, married or ' single, or any race, creed, or citizenship, who meet the specified requirements. Applicants must be under 35 years of age at the time of applications, have a serious in­terest in teaching or ad­ministrative careers in colleges or universities, and plan to study for a Ph. D. in some field of liberal arts in the United States. Those ap­plying cannot have begun study on the graduate or professional level and must not be holding other Danforth Foundation fellowships. Applicants must be nominated by Goerner by November 20, 1974. 



Them vs. Us 
IIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIII••IImHIIIIIIIIII h U IJ h harman 
Many of these men have been in their freedome., Now they perh­exile for up to ten years. Many of aps rightly feel the way a renown
With Friends With a perverted sense of pleasure I read last Friday about the
them are men who do indeed love legal scholar once felt; "If my battle over the Department Chairmanship in the Sociology­their country and would find a country can do without me, I can
Like These reaffirmation of their allegiance to do without my country. The world Anthropology Depoartment. During my stay her~ at N?tre f?am~, I had come up with a them vs. us philosophy of this Umvers1ty With
the United States to be an ab­is large enough." It will be our 
Dear Editor: the Administration being an effective them and the beleaguered
surdity. They never denounced 

loss. Sincerely,
Wf.' r~sent the fraudulent use of students taking the us role. I'm almost glad to find that us can now
their allegiance to the United 

our names which were signed on a they refused to Jill Manley also include at least the Soc-Anthro faculty: it seems that the
States, merely

derogatory letter published students aren't the only ones receiving the raw end of the Ad­
serve in what in all conscience they 

yesterday by the Observer. Our so ministration's rule (although it is by-and-large the students who
considered an unjust war. Now

called friends (i.e. Sam LoBosco, they are being kept out of their For Adults will apparently suffer from this move). . Steve Kindrick, and Dean Bears) (To recap the situation, Professor Leo Despres was appomted to
country by blind, intolerant people 

have shown to us again their lack be Chairman of the Soc-Anthro Department in spite of the
who can't see farther than the end 

Only

of maturity and the simpleness of unanimous support of the faculty's autonomous (read non­
of their MBO's. Our system of

their minds. The use of our names Administration) Committee on Appointments and Promotions of
justice has been stretched to the 

to add some legitimacy to their Richard Kurtz, acting Chairman of the Department. The CAP
point where killing and maiming Dear Editor:
letter was a serious violation of our listed Kurtz first on its list of four while Depres was fourth. In
the innocent is no longer a crime

mutual trust and offended us Recent issues of the Observer addition A Soc-Anthro faculty poll showed an ll-5 majority in
but following one's conscience is.

personally. have been carrying ad­favor of,Kurtz. Depres was the only Catholic on the list of four,
Returning veterans and

We also resent the the tone of the vertisements for the "adult" causing the CAP to resign amid charges of religious discrimination 
prisoners of war were hailed by the

lf.'tter and the insinuation that all theaters and bookstores on South <Apparently the students were never consulted, although the
whole nation. Why? Because they 

Notre Dame women are "pigs". Michigan Street. While those of us matter wouid seem to affect them more than either the Ad­
had the courage to risk their lives? 

Likewise, we resent the in­who are former G I's are not known ministration or the faculty.)
How about the men who had the

sinuations in other letters that all for our prudery, and those of us The worst part of the bad affair is that the Administration, in an
courage of their convictions and

Notre Dame men are "animals". who are "liberal intellectuals" are attempt to push their own conception of Notre Dame upon anyone
were not about to compromise

At an institution such as Notre not enthusiastic about censorship, in general and everyone in particular, have run roughshod over
their principles? Finally, we've

Dame, intelligent people realize some of us who aspire to become thoughts and opinions of the other citizens of the Notre Dame
decided that maybe they can come

that the essence of human "adult" one day are concerned community. Indeed, this latest bulldozing against the faculty looks
home but only after they've paid

relationships is far deeper than the about the exactitude with which particularly like last year's bulldozing episode of Fr. Burtc~aell
the price of their courage. It's not

physical nature implied. Such words are used. If voyeurism, and his academic calendar. In both cases, the appomted
an easy decision to leave the things 

insignificant argumentation as synthetic eroticism, and vicarious autonomous representatives of the 'us's' <CAP_ and SLC resp~­
you love, but to some a sense of

that expressed oy our friends and sex are "adult," that word no tively) were entirely disregarded and polls showmg overwhelmmg 
conscience and obligation to

others has no place and deserves longer conveys the psychological disfavor of Administration plans were ignored. It was also seen
oneself comes before a warped

even less consideration. and moral connotations it once that when all was said and done, the us's in question had no legal
sense of duty to a country involved 

Joe Corcoran possessed, and should be redefined power to make themselves felt, and that th~ ~ltim~te say-so re~ted
in an unjust war. Many of the men

John Masteller as a synonym for neurosis. I with the Administration and only the Admm1stratwn. The actwns
now live in exile in Canada,

Bill Keller Sweden or else suppose that many of us who have which could be taken by the students in the calendar dispute and
anywhere were survived adolescence passed the faculty in the Despres incident numbered only two: 1) verbalinducted into the armed services through a phase during which such protest & 2) nothing.

when the options open to them

Justice and curiosities were mildly en­To compound thesordidityof the whole affair, we find the Ad­
aside from military service were tertaining, or at least distracting, ministration (notably Fr. Hesburgh & Dean Crosson of Arts andfew. The status of a conscientious but one of the factors which helped Letters) using evasive rhetoric that would make Ron Ziegler green objector were very hard to come

Amnesty 

us grow through that phase was the with envy. To wit:by. These men had the courage to realization that such curiosities In replying to the charge that Depres' appointment was a resultlook the system straightin the eye 
were both immature and dull, of his Catholicity <& it definitely appears that way) Hesburgh
Dear Editor: and say, "Can't you guys see that something to be grown into. replied that that was "an unworthy aboservat;onb given the factyou're wrong?" If more men had Perhaps the Observer ought not to that we have now so many excellent non-Catholic professors ...", aIt seems that the issue of am­that kind of courage we wouldn't censor its advertisements, but as rewording of the tired old defense 'But some of my best friends arenesty came and went at Notre have had a My Lai or a Watergate. 
an important vehicle for com­non-Catholic.'
Dame arousing little or no concern These men won't come home as munication within a university Crosson meanwhile stated that "neither I nor any member of the among the student body. I guess drug addicts or suffering from any community at least it can demand Administration inquired about the new Chairman's religion." Thethe subject has to be liquor laws or of the psychological disorders that truth and genuine semantic point of the matter is that Dean Crosson did not have to inquire,panty raids to arouse any interest can result from being party to the 
sophistication in the ad­seeing how as Depres was a student at du Lac during th~ timearound here. That's a pretty sad atrocities of war day in and day vertisements which it chooses to Crosson taught in his Department. When asked of the affair last reflection upon this university out. We should put aside our 
print. Thursday, Crosson replied simply "I don't feel it would be wor­when you stop to consider that the prejudices, our memories of past 
Cordially, 

thwhile rehashing the matter."
amnesty issue is wound up in the suffering and our own ideas ·of 
Bob Kerby 

When asked the reasons for the choice of Depres over the faculty­possible collapse of the theory of "right" for awhile and welcome based Kurtz Father Hesburgh replied that he thought"It would be justice upon which our country these boys home with no strings inappropriate to go into all of the reasons at this point, but the
stands. attached. Parents, wives, 

To Clytemestra 
reasons do exist and they are important for the health and well­Exactly how does our system of girlfriends and friends of men who being of the department and the College" : a more blatant example justice operate? Why is it always were killed or injured in Viet Nam of Big Brotherism has yet to be seen.
the little men who have to suffer? will find it difficult to forget. Your 
Dear Editor: There is not!· •n wrong with attempting to keep du Lac aIn Watergate, it's the underlings sons, husbands, lovers and friends Catholic institution. Its high prestige lies in that direction along who are spending time behind were doing what they thought was 
Re: Ms. Von der Vogelweide and 
with a high prestige for its academic standards. Favoring ~hebars, not the boss. In My Lai, Lt. right by serving. Those who Notre Dame Ducks 1first over the second is a drastic mistake. If the act of keepmgCalley became the scapegoat for resisted the draft were doing what 
Having waddled through the 
Notre Dame Catholic comes at the expense of her students, it would military actions. Now we are they thought was right. Think for a moment of their parents, wives muc.ky "reports to the geophysical no longer be worthwhile to be Catholic. . .
about to add another to our ever­
society," I suspect that she, Ms. 
The tragic message of this episode is that incide~ts hke this ha':e growing list of scapegoats by at­lovers and friends who don't know 
tempting to make the returning when or if they'll ever get their Von der Vogelweide, must be a happened before and will undoubte,dly happen ag1~n, and there IS 
quack! As she writes with the 
just about nothing that any of 'us can do ~bout It. P~rhaJ?S thedraft evaders "pay for their boys back. Can't they ever come 
clarity of a mud puddle and with as
administration will, someday, stop regardmg the Umve~s1tycrimes" while the thousands who home without paying more of a 
the appeal of swamp gas, I sadly 
their sole province and realize that it also belongs, at least m 1partrlid kill and maim the innocent in price than they have already paid? 
suggest that she ducks her duties 
and however unworthy, to us.
Southeast Asia are not paying for In the land of the "Free and the as a good journalist. 
theirs. Hopefully, those in exile Brave" it's sad that so many brave will not stand for the injustice. men had to go elsewhere to find B. Bear 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
by Garry Trudeau

DOONESBURY the observer 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
I JUST OON'T KNOIJ/ 

Night Editor: AI Rutherford
IJIHtR& 70 71RN. k/ITH()(/{ 

Asst. Night Editor: Ginny Faust
f/NIWC/N(j, I'M NOT 

Layout: Diana Wilson , Karilee Clark, SUI?GCNT. IT SEeMS TliAT Marti Hogan ONLY 7JIE Vli/?Y RICH CAN Copy Reader: Ken Bradford AFrORIJ m MJ4Gc JUA/l. Day Editor: George Velcich I ANYMOfQ3. Editorials: Ken Girovard Features: J. R. Baker 
/1fJCH G{)(){) AS AN IN­
1r­

l11''""'-:=::) Sports: Greg Corgan Typists: Don Roos, Anne Peelor, Howard 
Halle, Karen Hinkks, Kathy Grace Compugraphic: Phil Orscheln Picture Screener: Alj:>ert D'Antonio Night Controller: HoWard Halle 
Wednesday, October 2, 1974 

the observer 
nineteen songs and twenty-two scarves 


a review by rmrlene zloza 
The King of Rock and Roll. That elec­trifying teen-age idol that during the '50's sang his way into immortality with a guitar, a pair of tight pants, and a mountain of country charm. Just the name has been enough to evoke excitement for the last twenty years -Elvis Presley. And so the excitement flooded the ACC Monday night and swept over a capacity crowd of Elvis worshippers and curious pagans. And the King came, and saw, and conquered the thousands of captive Midwesterners. But it was a rather hollow victory. 
It bacame pretty obvious from the start that no matter what Elvis did (or didn't do) onstage, the fans would leave satisfied and appreciative. They came to worship an institution, not to be entertained by a solid musical entertainer. 
Actually, there is no more Elvis Presley and there hasn't been since the comeback several years ago. The raw talent, the boyish charm, and the solo performance, are all gone. There is now "The Elvis Presley Show," a conglomeration of singers, musicians, comedian, emcee, stage crew, concessionaires,and bodyguards that revolve around the King and his per­formance. And taken as whole, this Las Begas-style extravaganza as brought to the ACC was a superficial and disillusioning experience. Somehow it seemed only right that everything should work smoothly and professionally. But it didn't. The sound system faltered, none of the costumes blended together and the instrumentation clashed and conflicted with the singing. 
After a first half consisting of three lackluster warm-up acts, the dramatic build-up was at a frenzied peak. The screams began as soon as the lights dim­med. Unfortunately, all the preliminary acts and musicians were part of Elvis' act too. This made for an awkward crowd on­stage and a messy musical performance. As it turned out, Elvis' entrance was his only solo activity. 

And what an entrance it was. Rushed onstage by a wall of bodyguards, the King was greeted with the overly dramatic 2001 theme,"Then Spake Zarathustra." Somehow a class performer shouldn't need that kind of gimmicky arrival. The musical entrance, however, was only thebeginning of the gimmickry. Elvis has lost none of his showmanship and his costume proved that. 
Decked out in a white pantsuit resplen­dent with sequins, emblazoned with orange and black tigers and fiery tiger stripes, and girded with a wide, chained cumberbund, the King posed prettily for all sectors of his audience. Huge diamond rings and pen­dants, and a rhinestone-studded guitar completed this pre-Halloween costume. 
Elvis began his musical show with a spirited rendition of "C.C. Rider" and then moved into his real performance, teasilig the audience with jokes, inuenndoes and body language. "I'll by righ there, honey," he purred to a frantic fan as he sashayed over to offer a souvenir scarf and a kiss. Elvis managed to sing at least parts of nineteen songs but he beat that number by handing out twenty-two "Aloha Elvis" autographed scarves. (They sold for $5 at the souvenir tables.) 
The musical repertoire chosen for the show was questionable at best. Half of the songs were Elvis originals, but these were random selections from the '50's that were poorly arranged. Elvis mumbled through abbreviated versions of "Blue Suede Shoes," "Love Me Tender," "Don't Be Cruel," and "You Ain't Nothin' But a Hounddog," while his eleven back-up singers carried the melody. 
Elvis did give greater attention to his 
more contemporary selections. Crooning 
through "Bridge Over Troubled Water," 
"Let Me Be There," and the "Hawaiian 
Wedding Song," Elvis became a serious and 
appreciable singer. 
Yet there was no continuity in the 
performance. Throughout the evening, 
Elvis reached for even the simple notes, 
interrupted his singing to respond to 
audience screams, flirted and supervised 


(Photo by Zenon Bidzinski) musicians and singers alike. 
Elvis, the smooth and deftly cool per­former of the '50's, seemed tense, restless and jumpy. He never stood still; he pushed at lyrics; he forced gestures and he grimaced at his own voice. Never did he put the audience at ease, but then he never seemed at ease himself. 
But Elvis is no longer the hip-swinging, dynamic superstar of the rock and roll era. He is caught in between two musical worlds -trying to hold on as a teen-age idol by belting out standards like "Johnny B. Good" and straining to achieve a more mature professional style with his latest release "It's Midnight." 
Physically, Elvis has grown-up to a middle-aged paunch, a weakened voice, and an aging and lined face. The ACC crowd chose to ignor these changes and tensions, however, and maybe they were right. Somehow, not even Elvis Presley can live up to the The Elvis Presley, reputation and legend anymore. Maybe it doesn't matter. The crowd can still live up to their reputation, cheering and screaming at any little twinge and in their minds imagining the Golden Elvis of long ago. To them, Elvis is still the King, and since "the customer is always right," who can argue with their judgement? 





lynyrd skynyrd--dixieland redivivus 
a review by rrork froze/ 

(Photo by Chris Smith) 

Lynyrd Skynyrd brought their personal brand of down-home get-down Southern fried nerve-jangling rock n roll to the 
Morris Civic Auditorium last night. 
An up-and-coming band from the South, they're cresting the wave of Dixieland Redivivus everywhere in the music business today. 
Firmly in the AllmanMar­shalTuckerWetWillie mould, Lynyrd Skynyrd (pronounced Leonard Skinner if you read the Coming Distractions of the last Scholastic) is derivitive, but if they can cook like this all the time-they're gonna go real far. 
And what a fettle spew it was! Like a bulldozer with wings, these long-haired, 'Lanta yokels had 'em up off their haunches in no time; just a-shaking away to their kick-ass Confederate jams. 
And ass kick they did, with triple leads Gary Ror.sington, Allen Collins, Ed Kings ulowing the balcony into the imaginary numbers. The anthracite-solid rhythm section featured Billy Powells on pianos, Leon Wilkerson, and Bobby Burns on drums. Staggering and reeling around in the midst of all this was Ronnie Van Zant, on vocals and J & B (as it says on their latest LP). 
The group's material was drawn chiefly 
from their lastest album "Second Helping." 
They sing about such things as working for a 
record company, heroin heartbreak blues, 
and how much people in Alabama love their 
governor. The poignant lyricism of "Needle · & Spoon" includes such lines as: 
"With the needle n the spoon, and the trip to the moon. . . " 
But in most of their songs the words aren't important, what counts is the guitar work. 
Apparently taking the maxim "Get a second lead guitar, chances are You'll go far" even one guitarist further, Skynyrd's stage presence is at times cluttered with so many guys up there playing it seems like two bands. 
The double-leads were showcased most effectively in "Freebird" from the first album. Van Zant dedicated this song to "two freebirds who've helped us out a lot, Duane Allman and Berry Oakley." This 

(Photo by Chris Smith) 
gives you_hint as to where they're at. King and Rossmgton battled to a never-ending cataclysmic electric dimax whilst tom-tom ~eater_ Bobby Burns kept the whole thing in hne w1th some steadily manic pounding. 
Hanging up behind the group was a Confederate flag, andhangingdown from the rafters was the almost de rigeur crystal globe for the super-frreaky finale. 
The encore, their current hit single"S. wee t Home Alabama" was executed' w1th admirable efficiency and contains the charming line: 
"Now Watergate does not bother me does yr conscience bother you . .." 
In short, Lynyrd Skynyrd got down to it and got down on top of it. In their first headlining tour (last year they backed up THE WHO) since their album started to catch fire and move up the charts, they gave South Bend a generous second helping of their .. music; hopefully they'll be back again soon with more.
(Photo by Chris Smith) 
Wednesday, October 2, 1974

the observer 

'gotcho, gipper' 
GOTCHA GIPPER! 
Owen Franks & Arnold S. Hirsch 
4-D Press 
$1.50 

"She was a lovely girl. Shoulder length blonde hair, soft blue eyes, fine white teeth­-and what Jim Hawkins calculated to be a perfect size 11 figure." And on Saturday she would be the quarterback of the Michigan State Spartans in their season opener against the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. 
No she wasn't going to don a green and whit~ helmet and race onto the field as part of a sorority initiation. Not would she assist the Spartan cheerleaders in th~ ff~rt to ?ut­yell the vociferous fans of the Fightmg Insh. 
What Irene Tollefson was going to do was lead the Spartans 94 yards in the final minute-thirty•-one of the fourth quarter to cut the Irish lead to one, and then go for the two point conversion with 0:00 on the scoreboard clock. 
Sound Possible? Probably not, but then if you are reading this in the Observer you're probably a Notre Dame fan and thus a lit_Ue prejudiced in favor of the awesom~ .Irish defense. But if you have nearly ftmshed reading "Gotcha, Gipper!" then you probably believe whatever Irene wants, Irene gets-· particularly if it's a touchdown! 
Gotcha, Gipper! is a little book 059 pages) that is a big success story. Although author Owen Franks claims to "have been an Irish fan for 120 years, by his own ad­mission his blood runs green and white. So, he has collaborated with his friend Arnold Hirsch in writing a football fantasy in which his beloved Spartans finally achieve that so­Iong-in-eoming victory over Notre Dame. 
Released in Detroit during the last week of April, the story of "the funni~t, sexiest quarterback sneak ever run agam~t ~otre Dame" was selling its 158,000 copy mstde a month. It's now in its fifth printing in .Detroit , it's fourth printing.in Los Angeles (explain that!), and has been recommended 
by bob quakenbush 
by the sports pages of the ~ootball News, the Detroit News, the .::>etrmt Free Press, and the Michigan State News. Nick Eddy, the former Notre Dame star, has been quoted as saying Gotcha, Gipper! is the "funniest football story I ever read." That's not all--if all proceeds as planned the m.ove version will enjoy a simultaneous premiere in South Bend and East Lansing next fall. 
Not bad at all for the very first book Owen Franks ever dreamed up in his life. The author is 45 years old and an "idea man" who never went to college. Basically, he's an inventor-responsible for Formula 409, Lovett Oven Cleaner, and an electric comb or two. He is also a sports enthisiast. He has played on several state championship softball teams, bowled a couple 300 games, and recruits for the Michigan State football team. His most recent project before Gotcha, Gipper! was producing ~ecord albums of the greatest moments m the football histories of such schools as Alabama, Nebraska, and the Uriversity of 
r~~i21iJ But one day last fall, an accident at Michigan State practice session turned him toward writing, publishing and movie production. "I think it was the week before the Wisconsin game," relates Franks, "and Baggett, the starting quarterback, was hurt so 5'6" Tyrone Willingham went in for him." The story goes the guys on the sidelines started making the usual wisecracks­including the famous "That looks like my sister out there!"-which inspired Gotcha, Gipper! On the expressway back to his suburban Detroit home that evening, Franks scrib­bled "the longest, most misspelled, un­punctuated 84 page paragraphl in history." But he did think it was funny, so he took his work to his friend Arnold Hirsch, former entertainment editor of the Detroit News and present public relations man for Ford Truck. Hirsch read, loved it, polished it up, and, of course, inserted the missing periods and commas. The first publisher to receive their manuscript immediately began bargaining for the movie rights. Franks and Hirsch now knew they really had something, so they decided to form their own publishing company, 4-D Press· and arrange for distribution and possible movie deals themselves. It's still on the best seller lists in Detroit and Los Angeles and now a major publishing firm is volunteering to h~nd~e national distribution." (However, It IS carried by South Bend bookstores now.) 
No one can explain why the book is selling so well--some guess it's wish fulfillment on the part of Spartan, Buckeye, Trojan and other fans of Notre Dame opponents. But Franks is the first to admit, "The most important words in the book are Notre Dame. They make us a national product." 

FlliDJ\Y 4pm-Nidnight__ 






OCTOBER 4"5 
SJ\TUllDJ\Y 1oem· Nldnis#tt {G•ILN\~H] __\),IC:. S~E.R.t fOOO~ ~ 
'/!I ~ ~ ~~ riiJrR ~~'ss,or,
100 Ctn t INrrar~~:,: 
700 L.W. W. • U.S. 33 M I SNAWAIC.A 
'll_, •,•"4 • \ '~ ·:()i • \, ' • _.,. '. • "· •1 #,:
......... ·--~· ......,., ..._._ -·.~· -.-....................................., ....,."·'··\·\..~·-... ... 
Wednesday, October 2, 1974
• 


I ' ' • • • 0 ~ • f f f t 4\ ",. ~··-a···· ·.;•;''$'
W.der comererice·S:>t:dit \~. 

Makarios speaks to UN General Assembly 
By BRUCE W. MUNN future of the Mediterranean States and Britain do not favor Security Council for help ports in both pro and anti­
UNITED NATIONS (UPI) island. the proposal which would place against the Greek military Makarios newspapers that Cle­Archbishop Makarios, speaking The plan had been turned the Cyprus problem before !;he junta which was ousted shortly rides was considering giving up to the U.N. General Assembly down cold by Turkey, altho~ entire 15-member Secunty after Makarios himself was the presidency because of as the elected president of Greece -brought to the point of Council. deposed July 15 in a coup led repeated calls for Makarios' Cyprus, Tuesday accepted the confrontation with its NATO Makarios made his first by Greek officers. return by his supporters.) 
Soviet proposal for an expanded neighbor over the Cyprus appearance here since last July He said negotiations on While accepting the idea of a 
international conference on the dispute -favored it. The United when he appealed to the Cyprus must take place in a new enlarged conference, Ma­wider international conference karios said, "It is not possible than the unsuccessful peace to have free negotiations for a talks held at Geneva among reasonable solution of the Britain, Turkey and Greece, problem while Cypriot territory guarantors of Cypriot independ­continues under foreign mili­
PVC gas levels cut sharply 
ence under a 1960 treaty. tary occupation and while one­"We consider the proposal for third of the population are still 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The exposure now number more part per million average over an international conference refugees, forcibly expelled from Labor Department Tuesday than 20. eight hours of exposure and no within the framework of the their homes and lands." announced new rules to drasti­Last April 5, OSHA an­concentration higher than 5 United Nations as constructive "At Geneva," Makarios said, cally cut the amount of cancer· nounced that workers could be parts per million over any 15-and therefore acceptable to "Turkey was not in fact causing vinyl chloride gas to exposed to no more than 50 minute period. us," said Makarios. negotiating but clearly trying to which factory workers may be parts per million of vinyl After Jan. 1 of 1976, the same (In Nicosia, a government impose her terms at gunpoint.exposed. One plastics company chloride gas in the air and exposure levels will be required spokesman said Makarios Turkey violated every acceptedsaid the action threatens to proposed eventually reducing except that workers exposed to talked by telephone Tuesday norm of international law and throw 2 million workers out of the exposure level to zero. anything stronger will have to with acting Cyprus President every accepted standard of their jobs. wear respirators. Glafkos Clerides amidst specu­international conduct. Her con­
During lengthy hearings on Firestone Plastics Co. said lation Clerides was preparing to temptuous behaviour and her 
The new rules from the the matter the industry claimed the rules put the industry "on a resign because of lack of Greek complete disregard of the basic Occupational Safety and Health it would be impossible to meet collision course with economic Cypriot support. principles and provisions of the 
a detectable level of the gas
Administration (OSHA) came disaster." An official of the (The spokesman would not Charter of the United Nations is 
after several months of growing inside the factories. firm said the restrictions would comment on unattributed re-perhaps unprecedented."evidence that workers exposed Under the new regulations, "throw 2 million jobs down the 
to the widely used plastics effective Oct. 4, the present 50 drain." industry gas were developing a parts per million exposure level 
rare but fatal form of liver will be allowed until Dec. 31. The 2 million figure repre­Senate ends aid to Turkey. ' 
cancer. Deaths around the After next Jan. 1 workers may sents the total number of world traced to work place be exposed to no more than 1 persons employed in the plas­
igoores Ford's veto threat
tics industry. Only several thousand work in factories where the raw gas itself is WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Senate volted 59 to 29 to defeat
Jersey court upholds 
made before it is turned into Senate Tuesday ignored a a motion by Senate Republican polyvinyl chloride -the solid threatened presidential veto Leader Hugh Scott to send the form which later becomes and passed legislation to funding resolution back to
same1'796 sex ruling 
everything from seat covers to cut off all U.S. aid to Turkey committe'e with instructions to suitcases. because of that nation's use of delete the aid cutoff amend­The gas was first linked to American arms in Cyprus. ment whieh was added on the
NEWARK, N.J. <UPO -A Prohibition of fornication by the fatalities at plant in Louisville, Before the final vote the floor Monday.
county judge Tuesday upheld a state neither advances nor 
Ky., and studies at similar llfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIHIIImiiiiiHIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIliiiiiiHIIII~
1796 law that makes it illegal inhibits religion." 
facilities later showed otherfor single persons to have 
It is, he continued, up "to the cases. i TOM'S UNIVERSITY STANDARD isexual relations in New Jersey. 
legislature to determine wheth­Other government agencies i 17993 STATE ROAD 23 272-0083 §
Judge Stanley G. Bedford of er the law should be altered ... " have since moved to eliminate Defense attorney Robert A.
Essex County said in a 12-page the gas from aerosol sprays i CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT TliE CORNER --.1~~ i 
opinion that it is up to the Baime said Bedford's decision which were turned out in a 
§ OF IRON WOOD AND STATE ROAD 23 ,.T& §
legislature, not the courts, to would be appealed to the variety of consumer products decide whether the state should Appellate Division of state ranging from spray paints to § ACROSS FROM THRIF·T-MART STANDARD §keep the law. Superior Court. pesticides to hair sprays. 

=_; I=
Bedford's decision arose from COMPLETE CAR CARE .,. a challenge to the law brought FREE N.D. GLASSES WITH FILL-UP
Ireland O:Jrdinal believes ­
by Newark laborer Charles § 10 PERCENT DISCOUNT TO N.D. & S.M.C. STUDENTS ~ 
Saunders, 20, convicted last 
ffiiiiiiiiiiiWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIDWIIIIIJJ.I.If 
I 
February of committing forni­cation. He was fined a 


conflict there not religious 
maximum $50. -VATICAN CITY <UPI) a religious war in the 20th
Saunders and a co-defendant Cardinal William Conway, pri­century is fundamentally false
argued that the statute was 
mate of all Ireland, said Qd one hopes that it will beunconstitutional because it was Tuesday the violence in Ulster recognized as such throughoutseldom enforced, violated their is not a religious war but a the world," Conway said. "It isright of privacy and was political and social conflict and a political and social conflict ... 
established in the "prevailing the majority is "utterly sick" relations between the (Catholicnotions of religious morality" of 
of it. and Protestant) Churches asthe latter 18th century. 
such are very good."

But Bedford rejected the 
The Belfast-born Conway told
arguments, saying that the Pope Paul VI and the world The synod is meeting untilstate has "compelling secular synod attended by more than the end of October to discussreasons" to enforce the law in 200 bishops that relations church problems and makeorder to prevent birth of between the Roman Catholic nonbinding recommendationsillegitimate children and the and Protestant churches in the for their solutions to Pope Paul.
spread of venera} disease. 
strife-beset country remain The main theme is evangeliza­
Bedford conceded that en­very good. tion in the contemporary world. forcement in the state has been "limited (and) difficult." But in 
"As far as the great mass of Conway said "much less thanupholding the law's constitu­the population, Catholic and one per cent of the population"tionality and rejecting Saun­Protestant, is concerned, they engages in violence in Northernders' bid for a judgment of are utterly sick of the violence Ireland. "Indeed, one of theacquittal, Bedford wrote: and passionately pray for significant aspects of the whole 
"The existence of those peace. situation is the fact that in religious motivations do not, modern society tiny groups of per se, make the statute a "The image of a whole people ruthless men can keep a whole 
violation of the Constitution. steeped in violence and fighting population in turmoil." 
MEDICAL SCHOOL APPLICANTS 
Amencan Medical Col-school applications. Your schools you select. lege Admissions Profile, MCAT scores, grade point Contact y.our pre­Inc., offers a com-average, college attended, medical advisor for further puterized analysis to assist state of residence, age and information or write you in more effectively as-other criteria are used in a A.M.C.A.P., Inc., Box sessing your qualifications comparative analysis with 8747, Boston, Mas­and more accurately di-the previously accepted sachusetts 02114. reeling your medical class at the medical 
•• , •• , .. lol•ol.• 
t•\····. 

WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitiou!i Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. Gas Paid. Free Housing. Miniimum $50 CALL C. STONE (219 ,636-7189 
IN CONCERT 



MAC DAVIS 
Also Appee»ing: Nqry Travers 
SAT. OCT. 19th 8:30 P.M. 
Ticket Prices NOTRE DAME Bleachers • • • • • • • $4.00 ATHLETIC AND Lower Arena •••• _ $5.50 CONVOC,~TION CENTER Loge••• _._ •••••• $6.50 Platforms••••••• _ $6.50 Main Floor.. • • • • • $6.50 
Tickets on sale: 

NOTRE DAME, A.C.C Mon.·Sot. 9 to S 
Robertson's 
South Bend & Concord Moll 
St. Joseph Bank 
and branches 
First Bank 

Before jtdiciarysubcarumttee 


Ford to appew next week 
By IIOWARD FIELDS 

WASHINGTON <UPI) -A House judiciary subcommittee, surprised by President Ford's offer to appear before it, offered him Tuesday a choice of three days next week to testify on why he pardoned Richard M. Nixon. 
Chairman William L. Hun­gate, D-Mo., told reporters the questioning of Ford would be confined to the pardon, and the White House indicated Ford intended to limit his testimony to that issue. 
"I wouldn't think they (his nine subcommittee members) could ask him about Chile or anything else," Hungate told reporters. "The parameter is fixed," he said, by two resolutions of inquiry demand­ing answers to 14 questions about the pardon. 
Ford's appearance, probably before live television in the same room where the impeach­ment of Nixon was recommen­ded, would be the first by a president since Abraham Lin­coln who testified in 1862 about how the New York Herald gained access to his state of the union address before he gave it. 
Ron Nessen, Ford's press secretary, said the President decided to appear in person because he is "a great believer 
in the direct approach. He feels 
he's the one who has the best 
information ...and that he's the 
best person to supply the 
information that was reques­
ted." 
Congressional response to 
Ford's offer was generally 
laudatory, but there were some 
expressions of apprehension 

Welfare checks pay lor C'ndillac 
CHICAGO <UPI) For Linda Taylor, welfare checks are a way of life. They help her pay bills on her 1974 Cadillac, Lincoln and Chevy station wagon, the four buildings she claims to own on the South South Side, and anything else here lifestyle has helped her to own. 
Two police burglary unit detectives, Jack Sherwin and Jerry Kush, stumbled onto Miss Taylor and her extraordinary network of names, addresses,_ phone numbers and husbands when she came into the station Aug. 8 to report a $14,000 
apartment theft that police believe never happened. 
A fingerprinting revealed that 
Miss Taylor, 47, had tried a similar theft report in 1972 and that she was wanted in Michigan for welfare fraud. Because of that warrant, extradition proceedings are underway. 

"She is a small person with nondescript features," Kush said. "Her skin is sallow -like a medium yellow -and she has no features that make her peculiar to any racial back­ground. So she passes as a Filipino. She puts on a black wig and becomes a Negro and with other makeup and wigs, she passes for white." 
Kush said during their month­long investigation, they discov­
ered Miss Taylor receives welfare checks and food stamps at two different addresses and under two different names; that she has at least 27 aliases; uses 31 addresses; has 25 different phone numbers; has three social security cards, and owns stocks and bonds under a about the precedent and wheth­er the panel would be able to get the full facts. 
Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield said although he was pleased by the offer, "I hope it wouldn't become a habit." He said "only on rare occasions should a President agree to testify ...Otherwise, we'd be calling him down here all the time and it would become disastrous." 
Reps. George Danielson and Fortney Stark, both California Democrats, expressed appre­hension while testifying before Hungate's subcommittee on a bill to require making public all grand jury evidence about Nixon. 
Danielson said the subcom­
mittee "may be in the position 
of the farmer's daughter. 
Beware the President who 
comes with a broad smile. I 
would hope the committee 
would not succumb to his 
charms." Stark said he agreed. 
Hungate said his panel would 
treat Ford iust as any other witness. The President would submit to questioning after reading an opening statement -probably detailing his an­swers to the 14 questions asked in resolutions of inquiry intro­duced by Reps. Bella Abzug, D­
N. Y., and John Conyers, D­Mich. 
Hungate said members would be limited to five minutes each, alternating between Democrats and Republicans. 
Besides Hungate, subcommit­tee members are Democrats Robert W. Kastenmeier, Wis., Don Edwards, Calif., James R. Mann, S.C., and Elizabeth Holtzman, N.Y., and Republi­cans Henry P. Smith III, N.Y., David W. Dennis, Ind., Law­rence J. Hogan, Md., and Wiley Mayne, Iowa. 
THI"K ... CO.LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA 

-~~. Foreign Car Parts Co. 
~Parts & accessories for imported cars 
Reaional  for all makes at lowest prices.  
Diatributor  ************************* ~ For N D Students, Faculty & Staff 10 * * percent discount with I D & pur­~ lchase of $10 or more. *  

************************. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland So. Bend 

And we can offer outstanding career opportunities in 
Engineering, Programming or Marketing. We will be interviewing at 
The University of Notre Dame &Saint Marys College on Oct.8, 1974. 
To find out about IBM arid let us find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or write to: Mr. I.C. Pfeiffer, College Relations Manager, IBM Corporation, One IBM Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60611. 
IBM 
An equal or,portunity employer 
variety. o£ .nrutles.. .............••.•.• • .•... L..:...::...!-.:...:.....:.....:_.:.....:__-'--:.....:._.:.....:___._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._·_·__,·,__________·_·_·_·_·_·____________J 
-~------------~--------,
~-­


Public financing------····--··­


Campaign bill passed 
By STEVE GERSTEL 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -Sen­ate-House negotiators reached a package compromise Tuesday, clearing the way for approval of the sweeping political cam­paign reforms prompted by Watergate. 
A final session was scheduled Thursday to nail down minor points in the bill and give the reforms final conference ap­proval. The bill then would have to be passed by the Senate and House and sent to the White House for action by President Ford. 
The legislation would provide public financing of presiOenuat primaries, general elections, and national conventions; limit political contributions, and set spending ceilings for can­didates. 
A stalemate was broken earlier in the day when the Senate dropped its demands for public financing of congression­al campaigns, accepting instead 
a  strong,  independent  panel  to  
enforce the reforms.  
Sen. Howard W.  Cannon,  D­ 

Nev., said he believed Ford could sign the bill and added "there are a lot more plusses in the bill than minuses." 
Nixon's clots i1nprove, to leave hospital soon 
By STEWART SLAVIN 
LONG BEACH, Calif. (UPI) -The blood clot in former President Nixon's right lung has grown smaller and there is no evidence of any new clots, his doctor said Tuesday. 
The favorable bill of health from Dr. John Lungren fol­lowed his earlier statement that there was a good chance for Nixon's release from Long Beach Memorial Hospital by the end of the week. 
Lungren also had said that the former President may be well enough to give a written deposition in the Watergate coverup trial, which began in Washington Tuesday, in two or three weeks. 
But Nixon's condition was said to be serious enough t•.1 prevent his personal appear­ance at the trial for at least one month and possibly three months because of restrictions on travel which could aggra­vate his phlebitis. 
In his daily medical bulletin 
Tuesday, Lungren made four 
findings based on a lung scan 
of Nixon that was completed 
Monday: 
"1. Evidence of partial 
resolution that the clot in the 
right lung (a hospital spokes­man said the partial resolution means that the clot, which had once covered a dime-sized area of Nixon's lung, had grown smaller). 
"2. No evidence of any additional fresh emboli in the lungs. 
"3. Analysis of the data from the initial and latest lung scans indicate that the pulmonary embolus probably occurred about two weeks before his hospitalization when he was seen in Palm Springs for a nareup of his phlebitis. 
"4. The battery of diagnostic tests is continuing as we attempt to find the basic cause for his original non-traumatic phlebitis." 
Nixon entered the hospital Sept. 23 and had been treated with both oral and intravenous anti-coagulation drugs. 
He was photographed Monday by a UPI cameraman, who snapped a picture of a smiling Nixon shaking a patient's hand as he was being wheeled down the hall. 
Lungren said a formal press conference would be held prior to Nixon's discharge but gave no indication what day that might be. 
tsy eliminating public financ­ing for congressional elections and limiting public presidential campaign financing to money from the $1 income tax checkoff, the bill met two of Ford's major objections. 
The major provisions of the bill include: 
Presidential Elections -Each major party candidate to receive $20 million in federal financing. 
Presidential Primaries-Ea-ch· candidate eligible for federal financing of up to $5 million after raising $100,000, including $5,000 from each of 20 states. The government to match any contribution of $250 or less. 
Presidential Conventions Each major party to get $2 million. 
Presidential Spending-Pre­sidential candidates limited to spending $10 million in the primaries and $20 million in the general election. 

Senate Spending -Candidates limited to $100,000 or eight cents times the voting age ­population in the primary and $150,000 or 12 cents times the voting age population in the general election. An additional 20 per cent can be spent for fund-raising. 
House Spending-House can­
didates can spend $70,000 in the 
primaries and $70,000 in the 
general elections plus 20 per 
cent for fund-raising costs. 
National and State Committee 
Spending-Two cents per voting 
age population. 
Contributions -Individuals li­
mited to contributions of $1,000 
to any one candidate in each 
primary, runoff and general 
election and an overall ceiling 
of $25,000. Organizations, such 
as unions, limited to $5,000 in 
each 


At BURGER CHEF'! ••give your sandwich the "works" at 
NO EXTRA CHARGE 
Two locations •• 

1716 N. Ironwood 52920 U.S. 31 North (at Cleveland Rd.) 

Fix your own burger the way you. 
like it at our new Works Bar. 
Help yourself to lettuce, tomatoes, onions, relish and pickles. Ifmustard and catsup are all you want, it's there 
for you too. Have as much or as little as you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar 
... and build your burger just the way you want it. 
Wednesday,. Qcto~r; ~,, \974 the obse-rve.r ·l1 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Desperately need Rice or Army tix. Call Pam . 5185, 233-1899. 
Wanted: 4 Rice tickets, Student or GA. Call 4774. 
Need 3 GA Miami. Will trade 3 GA Army or pay cash. Mark, 8420. 
Need ride to Cleveland, Friday, Oct. 4. Tim, 8944. 
Wanted: 4 Army GA tix. Call John or Kathy, 282-1568. 
Wanted: General Admission tix for Miami game. Call Jerry, 232-6004 before 4 pm, 233-6160 after 10 pm. 
Need riders to Kitchener, Ontario, Oct 4. Call 4604 after 6 pm. 
Desperately need ride to St. Louis Oct 10-11. Will share expenses. Call Kevin, 8730. 
Wanted: 8 tickets to Miami game. Call 255-7034 between 10:00 and 5:00. 
Need 1 ticket to Michigan State. Call Mary, 7889. 
In desperate need of 4 GA tickets for the Miami game. Please call Rich, 6981. 
Need 2 to 4 tickets for Rice game. Pat, 272-5459. 
Make an easy $200-$300 by an­swering your home phone between Nov. 1-10. No solicitation involved. Married couple preferred. Single female also acceptable. Write and tell me about yourself (include home phone number). Wolfgang Pietsch, 420 Bancroft, Rockford, Ill., 61107. 
Bass guitarist needed; top money; no novices. 234-5320 after 5. 
Desperately need 1 GA ticket for Rice and 4 for Pitt. Call Beth, 5144. 
Wanted: two (2) GA tickets for Miami. 289-4303. 
Desperately need two GA tix tor Army. Call Rahj, 1612. 
Desperately need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Dan, 1739. 
Need ride to Lexington, Friday, Oct. 4. Call Phil, 8436. 
Need ride to Cinci Oct. 4. Will share expenses. Call Deb, 4671. 
Need rider to Kent State, Ohio, Friday afternoon. Call Bob, 1152. 
Need two GA Rice tickets. $20. Call Tom, 8634. 
Wanted: two girls to share large 15 
room  house,  family  room  and  
kitchen  privileges.  $100  per  mo.  
Phone 256-0062.  

Ride wanted to CALIFORNIA during Oct. break. Call Tom, 3191. 
NEED 2 TICKETS TO MICHIGAN STATE GAME. CALL 272-9895 AFTER 7:00. 
Needed desperately: three GA tix for Miami and 2 student tix for Pitt games. Call Jerry, 1636. 
Need ride to Toledo Oct. 4. Call Meg, 4230. 
Ride needed to Madison, Wis., Oct. 3, 4. Call 8774, Peter. 
Wanted: 2 GA tix for Pitt. Call Larry, 288-7375. 
Desperately need ride to Bir­mingham, Mich. area for Fri, Oct 4. Call 5782. 
FOR SALE 

For sale: 2 Mich State tix. Call Brenda, 4260 or Mary Ellen 5155. 
Philco TV, B&W, 19", 1112 years old. Excellent condition. With stand. Call 272-2150 after 6 pm. 
Two General Admission MSU tickets. Call 272-3270. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: $225.00 cash between Keenan-Fieldho~se; Fieldhouse­O'Shag; Fiel~house­Administration Bl!lg. Large rewar!l. Call 33•18. 
Lost: wire-rimmed glasses. Sunsensored lenses. Between circle and Holy Cross. Call Chris, 232-0550. 
Lost: 2 rings and 2 bracelets by Library Reflecting Pool. If found, please call 483~. 
Lost: silver and turquoise bracelet. Has great sentimental value. Reward. Please call 4979. Thanks. 
If a copy of "Local Superiors," 1963 is found, please return to Joe, 203 St. Ed's, phone 6696. Reward offered. 
FOund: Thursday night at Nickie's, green windbreaker ­"Jack Daniel's Old No. 7." Call 289-3945 or 283-3439. 
PERSONALS 

Happy B-day Lynsical. Toke, guzzle, stay high! T.F.J.G. 
Dear Pervert: Happy Anniversary! 4 years. fruit and flowers. (are bananas still in season?) 
Love, Your Cohort in Perversion 
FiFi, Belated Happy Birthday. Mush. Mush. Mush. 111\ush. Mudsharks 
To the old second floor: "Who'd ever believe that I'd get 'raped'?" Who's next? 
Thanks, Wark 
MEN-WOMEN 

Jobs on Ships! No experience required: excellent pay. World­wide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for in­formation. 
SEAFAX 
Dept G-13 
P.O. Box 2049 
Port Angeles, Wash. 98362 
NOTICES 
Freshmen: 

All students who haven't picked up their Freshman Register must do so by Fri at the Services Commission office. After Fri Student Unio11 will no longer be responsible. 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFOR­TUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER ARE 12:15-5:00 MWF, AND 11:00­
1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TTH. 

Junior League Thrift Shop: over 30,000 items -new and used clothing, furniture, housewares, etc. The sail! will be at the 4-H fairgrounds, Saturday, October 5. 
9:00 am · 5:00 pm. Free parking, tree admission. Take Miami 1 mile past Scottsd;;,le to Jackson Road. 
TOM'S UNIVERSITY STAN­DARD AT IRONWOOD AND ST. RD. 23 WILL GIVE YOU A FREE 
N.D. GLASS WITH A FILL-UP. 
Starts today for 1 week! Govt. and Poli. Sci., 2 for 1 sale at Pandora's 
Books. 

Free: 3 puppies. One is 6 mos. old, others are 3 mos. Call 234-3730. 
Money? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFortune, dally, 11:15-12:15. 
TALISMAN AVAILABLE FOR 
PARTIE~ DANCE~ CONCERT~ 
& PREGAME PERFORMANCES. CALL 272-9895 FOR IN· FORMATION. 
Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Friday at 
4:40. Call Tom Boyer, 272-1807. 

Lost: brown leather wallet. Contains all ID's. Please return. Reward. Call Trace. 234-1889. 


Irish ruggers luckier with Pmdue; down Boilers 27-24 
by Bob Kissel points with ten minutes left in the continued the drubbing of Purdue game, John Froman notched his by handing the Boilermakers a 16-4 Lucky for the Irish rugby team second try of the afternoon, defeat. George Spiegel scored two that they did not appear on the bringing the Irish closer to victory. tries, Pete Brosnan added one cover of Sports Illustrated. But Tom Hastings scored the winning try, and Bill McHugh touched the they were not, so the Irish were try on what is best described as ball down for the final Irish four able to play the Purdue rugby blunder by Purdue. point try. Sean McDonald made squad on equal terms without the "The Purdue players thought the defensive play of the day when SI jinx against them. Tommy's <Hastings) catch of their he chased a Boilermaker for 80 
The Notre Dame 'A' team was kick was a knockon, which stops yards, stopping him on the one able to overcome two early play and calls for a serum," yard line to prevent a score. Boilermaker scores and come our e xplained team captain Larry "Purdue's serum was much the victor 27-24. The team went Casey. ."Instead of stopping larger than ours, but we outhustled into the contest with a week of pursuit on the ref's whistle, the them," they were tried to the point correcting mistakes !earned in the Purdue players thought the play of walking after the serum broke . victory against Michigan, but would stop. While the Purdue OUr backs were able to run unsure of what to expect from people were standing around for movements right at Purdue the Purdue. the serum that never came, Tom whole game which opened up the 
After the early Purdue scores, picked up the ball and went in offensive !annes." the Irish setteld down and untouched for the winning try." The Irish 'C' squad was nipped narrowed the margin to 13-8 at the "Purdue gave us trouble all day by the larger more experienced half, on scores by Jim Kovacs and in both the loose and set serums," South Bend 'A' unit 6-4. South Rich Arensberg. Purdue seemed remarked Casey," but we started Bend never scced a try, but their content to sit on their lead, but the two inexperienced props in the winning points came on two Irish had another game plan in serum. This inexperience gave us penalty kicks from inside the ND mind. trouble in keeping over the ball. 25 yard line. Mark Tovey talleid 
The lead changed several times Our backs really played well, the lone Irish try of the day. following tries by John Froman keeping us in the ball game all the "South Bend stymied us with and a penalty kick by Chet way." thier kicking game·," commented Zawalich. With the Irish down 7 The Notre Dame 'B' squad soph Pete Schreck," as soon as we 
got the ball out of the serum to the backs, South Bend was right on us. Still they never got in our end­


Caron leads stickmen 
zone." The next game for th e Irish is By George Eckes defense or good attackers or a good October 12th against the bench. It all seemed to mesh chiropractors for Palmer College.
Lacrosse could be the sport to together into a cogent entity. I "P~lmer College's team is -strong, watch this year. The excitement would go as far to say that our play mamlybecause they have so manyand confidence shown by the stick­here Sunday was far superior to foreigners," commented veteranmen proved to be worth it Sunday the play of our 1972 team that was Larry Casey. "Palmer will testas N.D.'s A team crushed Purdue 10-1 and won the title." our cluba s to whether we have9-2 in the first half before allowing The 1972 team's success cer­been lucky in the past two gamesthe less experienced Band C teams tainly was aided by the play of Joe or we are a good club."

finish up the second half. 

Lepley in goal. Jim Scarola So the Irish rugby teams willRich Caron showed one of the seems to be taking over that spot vrepare for the next two weeksreasons why he is the president of with ease, according to Corcoran. working on those parts of the gamethis year's squad as he pumped in "It was a total team effort on which have been lacking. Knowingthree goals, while the Irish got defense but Scarola looks like a the ND style of rugby, Palmerteam
balanced scoring from such 

natural in the goalie position." The members will have topracticetheirnotables as Fedele P.olpe, Joe freshman came up with 17 saves in chiro~·ractory on each other after
Meares and Kevin Fogerty. 

Sunday's encounter. the ga:ne.
Fogerty, who plays the position analogous to hockey's crease man, received laudation from his teammate and co-captain John 

:MSU dumps harriers 
Corcoran. "Kevin played the crease very well. With his size and by Pat Reidy Unfortunately, the Irish lostquickness he was able to pound in 

, . that, too. 
scores that some people could not Notr~ Da~e ~ eros~ c?untry Notre Dame's first finisher was even get their stick on." 

team, m the1r f1rst outmg m two Jim Hurt, who took fifth place with The goal scorers were not the w~ek~, dropped a d~al meet to a clocking of 25:47 for the five mile only plusses in the route of a team M1ch~gan State last Fnday at East course. Joe Yates and Mikethat has given the Irish trouble in ~ansmg. The Sp~rtans. took the Housley followed with 26:01 andthe past. As in most sports it was fl~st fo~r pl~ces,_ mcludmg He~b 26:24 for sixth and seventh places. 
the cohesiveness and team 

Lmdsey s . bhstermg 24_: 33.5 VIC-It should be noted that Lindsey's
togetherness that brought vict~ry a ~2-33 time was new record,
tory, to ~hn~h v1ctory. a course to the stickmen. "Passing was The Insh mactJv_e last weekend breaking the previous record oftremendous, people looking for due to a cancellation ~f the N?r-Minnesota's All-American Garyassists highlighted the afternoon, thwest_ern meet, couldn t cope With Bjorkland by .2 of a second.
and most importantly the overall the hills of Forest Oaks Golf The Irish harriers suffered a team play really keyed the attack C?urse or t~e fast pace of M.S.l!.'s major loss on September 16 whenfor us." said Rich Caron, who LI~s~y. Lmsey dashed t~e first co-captian Mike Gahagan un­scored the hat trick for the Irish. 

mile m 4:45 and after that 1t was a derwent an appendectomy at st.
··we were not relying on good 

battle for second place. , Joseph's Hospital. Gahagan will be lost for the balance of the cross -..., country season but is looking to bounce back strong and repeat as Central Collegiate 1000 yard champion in indoor track. Notre Dame's next meet will be the Notre Dame Invitational at Burke Golf Course on October 11. This meet attracts outstanding runners from throughout the Midwest and features traditional power, Bowling Green, Eastern Michigan, and Ball State, among 35 entries. The Open Division will feature course record holder and last year's champion in the Collegiate Division, Gordon Minty. 
Sailors rmet 
It you've ever had the desire to sail, but were afraid to ask come to one of the Notre Dame Sailing Club meetings, every Wednesday night, 6: 30 room 204 Engineering Building, or contact Team Captain Bruce Marek (8312) or Com­modore John Makielski (233-oo96.) 
.. Robin Jenkins launches a pass for Badin Hall in girls' interhall action. In four games, including action yesterday, Lyons is 3-0, Badin 2-1, Farley 0-4, B.P. 1-2 and Walsh 2-1. Yesterday Lyons beat B.P. 12-0 on two Terri Blake touchdowns and Badin downed Farley 26-0. 

~........ 
John Froman heading downfield for the Irish in their 27-24 victory over Purdue. 



Irish slip in polls 
Ohio State retained its position atop the A.P., and UPI college football polls this week. The Buckeyes remained undefeated by downing SMU 28­9 in Columbus Saturday afternoon. 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, fell out of the top five in both polls due to their 31-20 !oss to Purdue last weekend. The Irish are ranked seventh in the 
A.P. poll and sixth in the UPI. 
The UPI coaches poll, which cannot rank Oklahoma because of NCAA probation. gave 37 of 44 first place votes to the Buckeyes. In the A.P. poll, however the elbigible Sooners received 24 first placevotes just one shy of Ohio State's 25. ' 
Oklahoma replaced Notre Dame as the number two team in the A.P. poll, followed by Alabama, Michigan and Texas A&M. Bear Bryant's Crimson Tide were listed second in the UPI poll, with Michigan, Texas A&M and Nebraska in the third, fourth and fifth positions respectively. 
Two mo~e Southeas~ern Conference teams, Florida and Auburn, joined Alabama m the UPl s top ten. The Gators were ranked eigth while Auburn was listed in the ninth position. North Carolina St.'s 4-Q record merited the eight position in the A.P. poll. 
Once again, both polls alloted top ten spots to teams with losses a situation hard to avoid considering this year's upsets. Notre Da~e Southern California and Nebraska were listed among the top ten team~ by both polls, despite yarmshed records this season. 
Games scheduled for this weekend include Notre Dame at Michigan State, Ohio State at Washington State, Wake Forest at Oklahoma Ala bam vs. Mississippi at Jacskon Miss., and Michigan at Stanford. ' 
Associated Press 
UPI Poll 
I Ohio State (37) 3·0 324 The Associated J'ress Top Twenty, 2. Alabama (3) 3·0 293 
w1th rtrst·place votes m parentheses, 
3. \liehigan ( 4) 3-0 291 season record and total points. Points ~ Tt•xas A. & M 3-0 lT1 
tabulated on basis of 
20-18·16-14-12-10·&-H-7-6-5-4-3·2· 6 Notre Dame 2-l 116 I. Ohio State (25-x) .... 3·0-0 1.1144 
5. :l:ebraska 2·1 l-IN 
7. Texas Tech 2·0-1 112 2. Oklahoma (24-x) ....... 2-0-0 1,002 
H. Flonda 3-0 HI 3. Alabama (3-x) . 3-0-0 H98 
9. 
Auburn 3·0 i9 4. Michigan (4-x) . 3·0-0 H78 

10. 
Southt•m l'alilomia 1·1·1 69 5. Texas A&M (x) . 3-0-0 554 


II. North Carolina Slate 4·0 5ti 6. Nebraska 2-1-0 452 
12. (Tit•) Miami Wla 1Z-0 32 7. Notre Dame 2·1·0 406 
Pt•nn Sta!t• 2·1 tl 8. N. Caro. St. . . 4-0-Q 344 14 Illinois 3·0 30 9. s. California . 1-1·0 2511 
15. Arizona 3·0 21 10. Texas Tech . 2-0-1 2!i7 lti. (Tie) UCLA 1·1·1 ti II. Auburn 3-0·0 224 Trxas 2-1 . 6 12. Artzona 3-0-0 210 
19 (Tit•) Oklahoma Statt• 2·1 5 13. Florida 3·0-0 191 ~HssiS5ippi 2·1 5 14. Illinois 3-0-0 1&1 
15. Penn State . 2·1·0 168 16. Miami. Fla. 2·0-0 144 x-Onr ballot llstPd a fll'l'·wav tit• for 
17. Pitt 2·1·0 77 
first placP amon!l Ohio Stall;, Okla· lA. Arizona State . 2·1·0 i4 
-homa. Alabama. Mirhlgan and Tt•xas 19. Texas . . 2·1-0 73
,\&M 

2fl. Ark:msas 2·1·0 44 
See Exciting 
H


Professional 


CHICAGO COUGARS vs. QUEBEC NORDICS 
SUNDAY, OCT. 6th 7:30 P.M. 
Athletic and 
Convocation Center

NOTRE DAME 
All seats General Admission 
NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS: $2.00 
Tickets on sale at: NOT!tE DAME A.C.C. GATE 10 MON. • SAT. 9 • 5 






