Mulcahy clarifies  
off-campus issues  
by R. Thomas Thues  
Staff Reporter  
Expressing a hope of clarifying the many issues  
raised by the off-campus lottery, Director of Campus  
Residence and Student Affairs, Fr. John M. Mulcahy  
voiced his regrets concerning resulting student  
anxiety.  
The lottery, revealed last Friday, February I, is "the  
only way we have of dealing fail'ly with those students  
who Pust be forced off," said Mulcahy.  
Mulcahy and students under pressure  
He explained that his office is under a great deal  
pressure juggling the three rnajor factors effecting the  
•ottery. Mulcahy continued , "We must consider first,  
1hose students who will move off voluntarily; second, No matter how you deal the cards, only 5,000 out of 250,000 raffle tickets for the 1974  
the anxiety which the students experience as a result Chevrolet Impala have been sold. The car itself is worth almost $5,000. !Staff photo by 
Zenon Bidzinski).of the lotte1·y; and third, the f~ct that on-campus  
roor.1 availability improves with time."  
The Aprill6 date for publication of a waiting list is to Security force to combat 
i!ive students time to research off-campus housing and  
insure the sincerity of those who wish to remain on  
campus, said Mulcahy. He continued, "I don't want  
students saying they want to stay on campus while  
increased cheating levelplanning to r.1ove off anyway."  
Disadvantage for students Mukahy admitted the disadvantage placed on Sl udent s who J":'USt wait until April 16 to sign off­('af.lpus .eases, but saw no other solution to the probler.1. "Our whoie idea is to publish the lottery as eal'ly as possibie and hold mom picks as late as possible togive 'he students plenty of time to research off-campus housin~." •eiterated Mulcahy. When asked about volunteer crowding in dorms the housing diJ·ector said,"The University wants no overcrowding, period. Overcrowding only puts a burden on 1he other students and the dorm staff." Mulcahy did, however, state that new student rooms, such as Diilion's old pal'lor and Fisher's two basement 1 ooPs, would still be available for student housing. Mulcahy could not offer a reason for students wanting ro iive on campus. He speculated that the presenl·e of ,l'irls and the new understanding between sr udents and administratoJ·s concerning rules were two of I he faCtOrS. "I •Ike lo believe that iife on carnpus is better. This t i\'es f·'l' aii 1he r:10re reason for trying to keep r.1ore srudent on l'ar.,pus," said Mulcahy.  by James Rosini Staff Reporter The security force at Mardi Gras has been tripled to deal with cheating, said Mardi Gras Director Steve Boy. The misconduct has 1·anged from players cheating to dealers overpaying their friends. "We ori!!,inally planned for a top notch security operation,"' said Boy, "and now we have been forced to triple the security." "We are now at a r.1aximum security level," explained Boy and the he added, "It's been wm·se than other years!" When asked to account for the increase in cheating, Boy said, "Obviously we can't run this place Hke a Las Vegas casino. Otherwise we would have people strung around constantly. There r:1ust be a r.1edian between the business and the social end of the event," Boy added. Too r.1any people have looked upon Mardi Gras as a profit-r.1aking activity, according to Boy. Boy would like to see more people enjoy the carnival as a social activity. A.J. Schwartz, the Student Director of Security at Mardi Gras, had this to say about the security problems. "We have hired four dressed and  "The Unive1·sity has given the committee the option to prosecute cheaters as a university violation," Schwartz warned. There will be 25 students along with the professional security staff that will be patrolling constantly. "lost sight of goals" Comr.1enting on the success of Mardi Gras this year, Boy said that the greatest deficit has come in the amount of raffle tickets sold. "It has been the poorest return of tickets in the carnival's history," said Boy. "The largest volumes of sales have come from the committee itself!" Hoy urges more students to buy raffle tickets. A 1974 Cheverolet Impala, worth approximately $5,000, is the prize to be drawn by University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh on Sunday at 4 p.r:'. To this date, only 5,000 out of a possible quarter rnillion J·affle tickets have been sold toward the car. · "We have lost sight of ourgoals,"said Boy. "Students are for getting that the money is used to fun~ student-oriented volunteer groups and chanties such as the Sr. Marita Day Care Center and the ND-SMC Council for the Retarded."  
three undercover St. Joseph County police of­ficers to patrol the carnival. They have been rather successful for what they were hired," according to Schwartz. "A bad evening now and then is all right, but when we find a booth that has constantly been losing r.1oney we must suspect something," said Schwartz. He then gave credit to Grace and Keenan as being the two most profitable booths.  Friday and Saturday night there will be live r:1usic at Mardi Gras and Boy again added that students r.1ight buy their raffle tickets there. "If we don't r.1ake a minimum of $5,000, Mardi Gras will be defunct," said Boy. "The only way we can r.1ake that money is to sell four to five thousand rnore tickets!" Mardi Gras will be open from 7-12 on Friday, from 5-12 on Saturday and from 1-6 on Sunday.  
Two questions clarified  
Two points tnat Mulcahy wanted clarified in par­ 
ricuiar concerned the $50 security deposit and future fePa ie enmllr.wnt.  
The $50, which is to be payed next week, is a  
preregistration fee for academic' purposes only, not  
another security deposit. The security room . --:leposit  
was payed before freshr.1an year and remains with the  
University until a student moves off campus.  
Mulcahy assured the students who are forced off­ 
campus that the room deposit will not be forfeited. The  
preregistration fee, however, must be payed.  
Mulcahy urged the University not to increase female  
fmm next year's iOOO women to the projected 1,500  
wor.1en unless new dorms are built. "If the quantity of  
wor.1en Pust increase I'd like to see one of the towers  
converted rather than two of the other dorms," he  
l"ontinued.  
In conclusion, Mulcahy w·ged that those who plan to  
r.1ove off campus sign their leases as soon as possible  
and notify the Housing Office. "The sooner we know  Both young and old have a chance to win at  the Mardi Gras. Even if you lose, the money is  
how r.1any students are moving off voluntarily, thP  for charity. There is only three more days  left of Mardi Gras: Friday 7-12, Saturday 5·12,  
sooner we can cnm ile a waitin list " said Mulcahy.  and Sunday 1-6. (Staff photo by Zenon Bi dzinski)  

On The Inside 
SBP runoff 
..• page 3 
Senator Bayh 
... page 4 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIll, No. 75 
Concerning lottery 

..--------~-~~---­
the' observer Friday, February a, 1974 
r warld 
briefs 
NEW YORK <UPI> -Trucks loaded with food headed to the nation's big cities Thursday even before drivers voted on a tentative agreement between the government and truckers to end the strike that led to scare buying by worried housewives. Supermarket chains reported some foods such as chicken and meat were already scarce in several areas. 
HOUSTON <UPI>-Apparently in better shape when they left earth 12 weeks ago, the Skylab 3 astronauts Thursday shut down their space station for the last time and prepared to return to a Pacific Ocean spashdown Friday morning. 
Their condition appeared so good that doctors were optirnistic the Skylab flight will prove that r.1an can live and work in the weightlessness of space for a year or longer-time enough to go to Mar·s. 
an campus taday 
3:25 pm -lecture -"desalination of sea water by reverse osmosis," by dr. c. richard antonson, senior supervioisor, e.i. dupont, wilmington, delaware. -room 269 chemical engineering 
3:00 pm -;:~erspective series -"minds and the cosmic prospect" by donald williams -library faculty lounge 
4:30 pm -math colloquim -"the semisimplicity problem for group rings," by donald passman, u. of wisconsin. -room 226 computing center 
7: 00 & 9: 00 pm -film -"sons and lovers" sponsored by english department -engineering aud 
saturday, february 9, 1974 
2:00pm-basketba\1-nd v. duke-ace 
2:00 pm -swim meet -nd v. st. bonaventure 
university -rockne memorial 7:00pm-hockey-nd v. michigan state-ace 
8:00 & 10:00 pm -film -"viridiana" -engineering aud6: 30 pm-film-"hare rama hare krishna"­library aud. and lounge 
7:00 -12:00 pm-mardi gras-stepan center-.75 
7:30pm-hockey-nd v. michigan state-ace 
8:00 pm -duplicate bridge -everyone welcome university club ­
9:00 pm -11:30 am -smc coffeehouse -featuring steve paspek, jim gresser, bart polloc, john salverson, hot fudge sundaes .40. -lower level cafeteria 
sunday, february 10, 1974 
I: OOpm -conference -lutheran conference -carroll hall 
6:00 pm -"byzantine sunday liturgy" -holy cross hall chaoE!I 
8:00 
& 10:00 pm film "viridiana" ­engineering aud $100 

8:00 
pm -slf -auden tribute by spender and hollander -library aud and lounge 12:00-5:00 pm-art exhibition-indiana printmakers show -moreau gallery 12:00-9:00 pm -art exhibition -suzanne golubski paintinqs -upper moreau ;allery 12'-5: 00 pm -art exhibition -harold zisla paintings -hammes gallery 2:00-5:00pm-reception -for harold zisla paintings­hammes gallery 


12:00-6:00 pm & 7:00-10:00 pm-mardi gras-stepan center -! .75 
Proposed parietal hours 
SMC reacts to rule change 
by Debuie Lynch 
Staff Reporter 
A survey taken of St. Mary's students and authorized sources point optimistically toward the success of an open house on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. But there is a tinge of doub about the upcoming election this weekend, when ths Board of Regents decides on the social future of the SMC community. 
"There have been no security problems with the current open house on Sunday between 1-5." So said Anthony Kovatch, director of SMC security. When asked what he thought about the new proposed hours including Friday and Saturday, he said, "I think St. Mary's is ready for it and the girls are ready for It as long as they follow the rules and regulations and maintain a respect for the others' privacy. The responsiblity will lie on the ,girls' shoulders to keep up the integrity of the school. If it turns out that they can't handle it then it should be taken away from them." he concluded. 
As far as the students' opinions 1/.0 , Mary Francis Burt, hall director of Holy Cross, said, "there is a half-and-half reaction toward the new open house. The girls do like the hours during the weekend. They are glad that there aren't hours during the week." When asked if there would be a tendency to abuse the new hours, Burt said "The same people who abuse then~ now will abuse them if passed. But for the most part, it will create a natural and relaxed atmosphere which will be beneficial to th~ girls." 
Junior Monica Fortune said, "U they want us to be women then we should betreatedlike women.~• Pat Cunningham, a sophomore, suggested that the situations now is "unnatural" "With the new parietals, the atmosphere would be better and ther would be natural relationships with guys," she added. 
Linda McKenzie added that the current open house was to appease the students temporarily. 
Pat Dunn, a freshman, said, "Notre Dame guys think we are chasing them. It's because we can't have guys over in our rooms in a relaxed place." 
Ma_ry Jo Donovan added, "May be with the new parietals we can show ND that we are human." 
Barb McKiernan pointed out "We have advanced and grown' with everything except parietals." 
Arab -African problems 
by Tom Brennan 
Staff Reporter 
The La Fortune Student Center was the site of a panel discussion concerning Arab and African relations as seen in the historical roots for conflict, and the possibilities for unity between these two factions, Thursday night 
Professors Joseph Scott, Aleck Che-Mponda, and Rita Cassidy r.,ade up the panel with Prof. Peter Walsh acting as moder·ator. 
Cassidy, history professor at St. Mary's led off the discussion by laying the groundwork of the Arab and African relationship in terms of past historical experiences. The Arab subju!!.ation of the Africans as witnessed in the slave trade on Africa's East coast emphasized the past treatment of the Africans. 
Scott elaborated on the possibility of improved African­Arab relations as common in­terests merge. Participation in the Organization for African Unity WAUl could also further the cooperation between the Africans and Arabs. Scott related that the African nations wanted to cooperate in the Third World Struggle but the question r·emains as to the amount the Africans will have to pay for their involvement, Scott suggested. 
When questioned about the 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semesfer except vacations by the stuctents ot the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (S14 per year) from Ttie Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 
46556. 
Valentine's Day 
~-MY\ 
Classified Ads 

~? 
Tell your Valentine and the world how you really feel 
Ads will be taken in the Observer office 


Today till 5 pm 
~. ..._ _____....T..-o..;.,;m;.;.;o;;.;r:...:.r.=:o..:.w:.....:..:fr:..:o:.:.m.:.:......;l:..:O:....::a~m~to~S~~P~m!-__..J 
possible accomplishments of the Peelings such as these could be an r.'eeting, Che-Mponda responded, aid in bring diverse opinions "There was an enlightenment of together. the actual and subtle factors in the Saleh Jallad.a graduate student 
relationship between the Africans fror:l Jordan, felt that the meeting and the Arabs. This could be a was worthwhile and stimulating. help in better understanding the He felt however, that the title of the association of the two•groups in discussion "The Arabs and the 
light of the past experiences." Africans Friends or Foes?" could John Collins, a member of the have possibly started the <!Udience, respond~ __!!lat discussion off on the wrong foot. 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 

No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. Thru June 15th, 1974. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 

Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
Acareer in law­WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an u!ldergraduate education and a challenging, respon­Sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more t~an 500 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 40 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are rnterested tn a career as a Lawyer's Assistant we'd like to meet you. ' 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
THURSDAY,FEBRUARY14 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 

235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
AC 0035 


Primarv Feb. 27 


lD March
SBP runoff election to be held • 
by Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter The student government election primary will be held on February 27 and the final runoff vote will take place on Friday March 1, according to :)tudent Body Vice President Mike Geisinger. Prospective candidates may pick up petitions for signatures from the student government office next Monday, February 11. They must be returned by 
February 21, at 5:00p.m. To prevent the complications 
which  arose  during  last  year's  
election  the  Board  of  Com­ 
missioners  set  a  campaign  

spending limit of fifty dollars, required 175 signatures fron1 presidential candidates, and outlawed writein and blank ballots in the final voting. 
The Board rejected the opinion of allowing unlimited spending or setting a higher limit, because that could become more of a mandate to spend rather than an allowance for candidates, said Geisinger. The board also voted to restrict student life council candidates to 
twenty-five dollars. 
While each presidential can­didate must obtain 175 signatures and I.D. numbers, the represen­tatives for, the life council must have fifty signatures to be included in the February 27 primary. The com­missioners decided that requiring only 100 signatures led to 
InPIRG meznbers hear director explain PU!~~~~ w;f!w!]~ .Jl.O.~l~. 
type ot 
Mark Frazel 
Staff Reporter 

The Indiana Public Interest Research Group (IMPIRG) held a prelirninary meeting Thursday night in the Student Governn1ent Offices in LaFortune Center. 
Fritz Wiecking, executive director of the statewide group, t'xplained InPIRG, its goals, ant its establishment at Notre Dame to an audience of over twenty. 
. . 

.~he PUJ pose of InPIRG IS to aJ t1~ulate and pursue, through media, the courts, and other legal r.leans, the conce_rns of students and the comr.mmty a~ l~rge on Issues of general public mterest. 
"The PIRG's explained 

Wiecking, "are a phenomena in­
spired by Ralph Nader, and I think 
they can provide answers to some of the problems of tis country." 
Just like any independent citizen's organization, two things are necessary to make it work: stability and money. On the cam pus, rnoney is collected through a voluntary fee assesment of every student, usually about a $1.50 per person. The chief ad­vantage of this system is its ubiquity, If the funding is universal, no one person or interest can "buy" off the group. 
Stability in the implementation of p,oals is assured by a full-time staff of attorneys, organizers, and researchers. They provide crucial continuity to insure completion of projects and programs throughout the year when students, either because of semester exams or summer vacations, arenot able to devote time to such activities. 
by Bill McLean Staff Reporter 
Due to a slight change' in the assigned dates for the Student Body elections, elections for Senior Class Fellow has been changed to Wednesday February 27. All nominations must be turned in at the Student Government office by 5:00p.m. on Monday, February 25. Procedures for entering a 
nomination Simply ·entail (a) I filling out a petition with 50 signatures and I.D.'s of fellow seniors indicating support of one's nomination, and (b) retur­
ning the petiton to the Student Government office not later than 
5:00 p.m. on February 25. Petition forms may be picked up at the Student Government office. 

The Senior Class Fellow must be physically capable of coming to Notre Dame during Senior Week in early May. 
The selected nominee will come to·campus for the entire week prior to final exams. During this period, the Senior Class Fellow will per­sonally address the entire senior both local and statewide levels in such areas as environmenal preservation, consumer protec­tion, race and sex discri_mination, and tenant landlord rel~tions. The r~~so~ for . a _st~.~ew1de group, \\Ieckmg said, IS If you want to sh~p !·eal estate developers _fro~n bUild1~g around ,a reservmr. m Bloommgto~, you ~e got. to fight them down m Indianapolis where their money comes from." 
The local projects InPIRG has started include fighting Indiana Bell to block rate increases, in­vestigation of comparative prices for groceries, student books, and consumer fraud in pharmaceutical commodities. 
"The PIRg movement is growing all across the country," said Wiecking, "currently twenty 
TT • • 
,. atJcan revlses 0 ru es: 
organization, and others are forming. It's catching fire." 
Two years ago, InPIRG at­iempted to establish itself here and 75 per ce,nt of the stud~nt body agr~ed to he assessment mv~lved. 
This was the largest amm.mt of student respo_nse i~ the country. 
To re-establish this VO!-IP now on ca~1pus, another petition cam­pa1gn· must be conducted. If enough signatures are collected, tte petitions will then be presented to fhe Administration or Board of Trusiees for ratification. 
Wiecking conluded, "the basic problem is people are not turned on about this because they think these are problems they can't do 
anything about. InPIRG offers a handle and a r.)eans for effective action." 
Jd J 

makes penance communal 
The Vatican today revised the rules for the Roman Catholic sacrament of penance to make it more communcal and more of a reconciliation than a "confession." 
A new "Ordo Paenitentiae" (Rules for Penance) issued with the approval of Pope Paul VI by the Sacred Congregation for Divine Worship does not eliminate the traditional private confession and absolution. 
But it does permit individual confessiona nd absolution to be "inserted into a communal celebration in which the faithful listen to gether to the word of God, admit their sinfulness and invoke the mercy of the Lord." 
It also says that "in very special circumstances . . . general ab­solution may be given at the discretion of the bishops with the individual confession of sins being postponed to a future time." 

Vatican sources said many bishops were expected to interpret this new authority liberally. 
The new rites said the term "ronfession" places too much emphasis on the accusation of sins and "does not convey all the richness of meaning which this Sacrament has in the life of the Church." 
The form of private confession remains the same but is enriched by a possible reading of a text of Sacred Scripture. 
Seniors to elect Class Fello-w 
class and spend the remainder of 
the week making himself available 
to the seniors for the purpose of 
getting to know the seniors. 
Jerry Samaniego, Senior Class 
President, indicated the fact that 
traditionally the Senior Class as 
one able to reflect their attitudes of 
contemporary issues. The position 
of Senior Class Fellow should be 
one of honor and prestige. 
Samaniego went on to say 

r 
UJ~t Qlulnntal

I1 
I 
lfanrakt ifnu.st 

that the Senior Class Fellow will represent the Senior Class and reflect their concern, attitudes, and feelings about human life and society, its people,and its structure (whether it be good or bad(. 
Samaniego encourages any nominations so meeting the requirement. However, Samaniego also indicated that a certain amount of pride and sincerity should be exemplified in the nominations. 

"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
;$!:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::s: 
;:;: 35 Varieties of Pancakes .:::: 
!!!!Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches ~~~: 
::::Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ;:::: 
:~::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::~:~:~:~:::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn} 
cumbersome election as in. last year's initial ballot with fourteen candidates. Too many ·names promised to make canvassing an impossible task for candidates so the board reached the compromise figure of 175. 
This year the two leading can­didates in the primary will move on to the run-off election provided that their combined electorate equals at least fifty percent of the total. If they together cannot r.)uster half the total vote, then candidates will be added in order until the candidates in the run-off have fifty percent of the total. If no one garners fifty percent of the run-off vote, a final vote will be held on the following Monday March 4. 
Since no writein or blank ballots will be allowed this year the possibility of a third vote is slim, stated Jerry Samaniego, the chaiJ·man of the executive board of the election committee. The voting could end with the primary. 
Samaniego, also senior calss president, has formed a committee of twenty-two, one person from each dorm and one from off campus, for the supervision of the election efforts. This new body places Samaniego in charge of reviewing election committee regulation infractions including the fifty-dollar expenditure limit. His basic duty will be to in­vestigate infractions and refer major violations to the Board for action. 
The Student Government presidential ticket will be chosen campus-wide and one member of the Student Life Council will be elected from each of the six campus and rff-campus districts. 
Any Notre Dame undergraduate nay run for these positions . The 1974-1975 officers assume office on April 1. Balloting on respective days will be from 11:30 to 1:00 and from 5:00 to 6:30 in the dorms. Off­campus· students will vote in the off-campus office from 11:00 to 4:00. 
The election of senior class fellow will occur at the same time on a separate ballot. 
In addition to the expense limit, Samaniego will be watching for such infractions of the election rules as posters on windows, trees, m· sidewalks, oversize posters, or posters with adhesive backing. 


nice place to begin your weekend 
Mass & Dinner Spm Every Friday 
IN CONCERT 
''QUICKSILVER" 
MESSENGER SERVICE With Special Guest 
MONTROSE 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1974 At The MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
7:30P.M. 
$5.00 ADVANCE -$5.50 AT DOOR 
TICKETS A VA!LABLE AT· 
The Auditorium Box Office, 12:00 to 5:00 P.M. daily, except Sunday; Pandora's Book Store; Boogie Records and at Disc Records in Elkhart. 
Bob Edwa,r~ .~o~so, ..., .'.".'.~··,. '/.' :~·· :·~ ,·l· 1 :·.u 
--------~~------:-:-'----'-:-:"..-7'-.•-:;--;-7,,, .,..,.,........,..;...;...;.....,;,..;_.:.._;,;_....;.._______..;...,~
••:'-:; .• 

.•. ....... 

the observer Friday, Februarv 8. 1974
4 

:.•it's how you stand on issues ... ' 
Senator Bayh-Indiana's ~u11ior senator 

by Ann McCarry nuts and bolts of the campaign its Wire Editor going to be how you stand on the issues that counts," said Bayh. He Senator Birch Bayh rose from went on to say that he expects Lugar, once named "President
his seat and turned to shake hands withe audience. The taping of a Nixon;s favorite mayor" to sup­question and answer session with port the Nixon administration constitutionts at South Bend's contrary to Bayh's liberal 
WSBT was complete. democratic stance. Lugar who 
Senator Bayh had finished spoke at a county Republican talking to the women from the women's dinner last said that he Right to Life foundation and the thought Senator Bayh too liberal a lady in the purple hat with the senator for Indiana. Bayh laughed 
plume. He shook hands with the in response. gray-haired man in the muddy "The issues most people are overalls and turned to us. 
concerned with are those being It was easy to see the phrases discussed right now-the bread 'youth' vote and 'press-be nice to basket issues," quipped the them' click in the politicain's mind Senator. He went on to site the as Bayh hustled across the studio. failure of the president in exer­His sr.1ile and firm handshake cising powers the Congress had reaffirmed his sincerity, however. given him in regulating proper 
Observer lnsir:~ht 
A Politician's Handshake price control as the main cause for 
Walking quickly down the block the inflation and unemployment 
to his aide's car, Bayh spotted a now present in our economy. 
women wait in.~ in a ;parked car on Bayh elaborated on the energy 
the opposite side of the street. crisis as an example of the 
Dodging oncoming traffic, Bayh president's imcompetence. 
sprinted anoss the street and Gas Rationing 
shook hands with the friendly "The president disregarded his 
voter. Mor.1ents later he was in the cabinet when they warned him 
car, the interview underway. aboutthis crisis in 1970...Yes, the 

Senator Birch Bayh relaxes while informally chatting with reporters (Staff Photo by Zenon BidzinskiJ 
Meeting the Constituents 

It had already been a long day fm· Indiana's junior senator. The r.10rning had been spent in downstate Plymouth, where Bayh 
had answ€!red cailers on an early 
radio show. After a quick lunch 
with the senior citizens of the South 
Bend Model Cities hot lunch 
program, he had come to WSBT. 
The next stop was Notre Dame 
where Bahy planned to chat in­
formally with students in the law 
school. 

WSND News Director Bruce 
Schulte began the questioning, 
asking Bayh, whose second 6-year 
•erm ends this vear, about the upcoming senatorial election. Although no announcements have yet been r.1ade it is assumed that Bayh will be running against In­
dianaplois's young Republican Mayor, Dick Lugar. Issues that count "When you get right down to the 
r 
Wednesday, Feb. 13 
r 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College Notre .Dame, Ind. 

don't want rationing. But today let the gas prices go up and not have rationing is ridiculous." Bayh feels this type of action would pinch the poorer citizens who cannot afford to pay the higher pl'ices. 
We had arrived at the Circle signa ling the end of interview. The Senator wanted to speak in­formally with the students here, interested in their concerns and posible strategies for the upcoming campaign. No press questions would be allowed. 
We asked him quicltly of another popular concern he had mentioned, the health of the political process. 
He smiled almost poignantly. 
"This hurts." said Bayh. 

"I thought that because of the Saturday Night Massacre (the r.'ol'·lOVe in which Nixon Fired Ruckleeshaus, Cox and Richard­son from his cabinet) we would learn not to tolerate a president who thought he was more powerful than the law," Bayh commented seriously. "Apparently Mr. Nixon and Mr. Ford have not learned this lesson." Bayh paused briefly to regather his thought. "He won't iet Jaworski have the same in­formation Cox wanted. If the president let this information out we'd have had this over several r.1onths ago." 
A short time later Bayh talked politics with a small group of the students. He shared their con­cerns, respected their opinions and suggestions for his campaign. He spoke of the time of the nation and the need to challenge ourselves and our system to prevent stagnancy of thought and action. 
Soon the Senator was on his feet, donning his coat.Tonight he would speak in Michigan City. The challenge would be with him. 
Special offer to... 
Fighting Irish Fans 
Regulation size 

furry football 
Imprinted on side one is "N.D. No. 1." 
Side two says "1973". Perfect for your room 
or car window. 

Send only $5.95 money order 
To: Collegiate Enterprises P.O. Box 17082 ____ .• ___ .-_IS_.~.L ~(!. _§41~-~ _ ·-_____ _ 
Please send my N.D. Football. Enclosed is a Money Order for $5.95. 
Name-------------------­Address____________________ 
City _________ State___ Zip Code-­
AN EVENING WITH 
Rod 
McKuen 
LIVE, IN PERSON, WITH ORCHESTRA 

IN CONCERT· FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 22 • 8 PM! MORRIS Al:JDITORIUM • SOUTH BEND, IND. 
RESERVED SEATS $4.50-5.50-6.50 
Now on sale at Morris Auditorium Box Office, or by mail. Send payment with self-addressed, stamped envelope to: McKuen, Morris Aud., 211 N. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
Special Notre 'Dame-St. Mary's Discount! $1.00 off each ticket. Purchase discounted tickets at Morris Auditorium Box Office! 

., .; Friday, February 8, 1974 the observer 
5 

yourselves? The women here face predominantely male Notre Dame a virtual monopoly and apparently population with alien femininity.won't accept anything less. As two naive, unsuspecting fresh­We're tired of standing down here r.,en, we were astounded to witness and watching girls like you on your our fellow comardes' recep­perches. If it upsets you that we tiveness to this sinful invasion of ship girls in for Mardi Gras then our otherwise "sterile" en­give us a reason not to. Come down vironment. We can only hope that off your perches and give us a this need for promiscuous behavior break. We invited you toN .D. when has been expelled, as so not to we went co-ed and we're glad further jeopardize our puritanical you're here. The last thing we want well-being. Regretfully though, is for you to leave. All we ask is rumor has it that our campus is that you meet us half way. What do again subject to an all-female you say? stampede this weekend. Their 
Dave Richter busses will be arriving Friday at 4 
p.m. As requested, yours' will be 
your liking. Since it is evident that pasture because Notre Dame Head 'em Up leaving shortly thereafter.
Editor's Note: 
5 to 1 is insufficient to satisfy your needs ~1ature and intelligent
In Thursday's edition of the Ob­Editor: Kevin Britt
needs, when you have chosen your women as coeds, not cows in heat, I 
server, a letter appeared entitled Thank you, those at home on the Bill Gaudreau
destination contact us, and we'll realize this does not apply to all the range.
"Cattle for the Cows". No single 
provide you with enough busses f~r coeds, but I felt those who had
letter printed this year within At any given time, the ratio Consumers First
the whole herd. Our only request 1s written should be answered. between men women
these pages has prompted such to on this
that once you leave, please don't
immediate and emotional response. Bill Jensen campus is approximately 8 to 1and Dear Editor: 
come back. The condition of the
As a result, the editorial depart­when St. Mary's is included the Apparently 5,000 plus males on ment has devoted the entire letters pasture was a hell of a lot better Normal ratio is approximately 3 to 1. If you this campus are not enough to
befm·e you came, and we are sure
page today to airing those want to bitch about the university's satisfy your needs. To us, the 
responses. that once you leave, the present Cow-panionship attempt to make the situation a cattlemen, this comes as acondition is bound to get better. Dear Editor, 
little more normal on one weekend discouraging word. But, alas, one
We wholeheartedly agree with
Sincerely, during the year, then do me (us) a ~''USt also consider the cattlemen's 
your sentiments concerni.ng the
Male Sam LoBosco '75 favor and bus yourself out of here. position. When the domestic supply 
cattledrive. We agree w1th you
Dean Bears '75 Sincerely, giving you all the att­is spa1·se and of inferior quality, we
that it is destestible that for one
Bill Mahoney '75 netion you deserve, have no choice but to import; for, Apparition weekend, every Notre Dam.e male otherwise, the cost of the domestic 
Bill Keller '75 Mark R. Huffman
should have an opporturuty for 
cattle would 1·ise beyond the reach John Masteller '75
Dear Editor, female companionship. Howev~r, of the vast majority of consumers.
Steve Kindrick '75

Well, here it is, Mardi Gras tiil1e fear not, ladies of Du Lac; soctal Move 'em Out We regret only that trade
Paul DuCharme '75

aF,ain,when all the male domers conditions here on campus are now agreements limit us to one importRay Gans '75
pour out of the library for the first back to "normal." We hope you Editor: per year.
Nick Weis '75 Tom Harrison '75

time all year. The number of new are once again happy with the Yes, we too were appalled by the Sincerely,
faces is astounding! Especially seven bulls to every cow situation. 
blatant attempt to delu e the Cattleman's AssociationPaul Brun '75
the number of new faces on Thank you for your year long
Javier Lazo '75

busload upon busload of college inattention. 
... in answer to Audio Specialists...
Joe Corcoran '75and high of college and high school 

Yours in frustration: 

girls from all over the Midwest Bus Stop Name Withheld Upon Request 
* Pioneer SC 727
these lovely young ladies come anticipating a memorable 
weekend of fun and frolics beneath Waiting From 'Herd' *Dual 1218 (complete with w/b, dc,cart) the Dome. Dear Editor, 
to 'Flock'

That's fine. But what about the in­On a college campus where men 
* Two Large Utility Advents
Dear Editor,resident female domers who have outnumber women 8 to 1 there is 
You thank us for our inattention?
also been anticipating a pleasent going to be an enthusiastic 
ALL FOR $620.00 ALL NEW I 
Let's put credit where credit is
break from the same old routine? response towards all women that 
due. I realize that to any woman
It might be nice if we could meet a can be bussed in. There is cer­
"competition" is a bad word bt1t
few of the "Notre Dame Men" we to bus in. 
GOLDEN DOME RECORDS 283-1487
. tainly no reason men when women at Notre Dame begin heard so much about but seldom Perhaps this says something about 
to complain something is 
see. For one short week, we could those women who see incoming her it ms available at low prices 804 FLANNER
definitely wrong. Are you so selfish
bread out of the monotony of girls as sweat hogs. Are you afraid Friday and Saturday nights of the competition? You must feel 
that you expect to have all of us to 
-============-==-==============~ 
talking to the other girls in the ve1·y insecure or else you feel that dorm and actually spend a the men on campus aren't good
pleasent evening in the company of enough for you. At any rate maybe our male counterparts. we should honor your request. The Unfortunately, the guys would next bus leaves at 5:00 pm on 
prefer to relate to the Mardi Gras Friday.r.,igrants. So, being Iibera\ 
ove
Sincerely,minded, I would like to suggest Let's get those busses moo-ving out· 
equal benefits for us. Why not bus Name Withheld Upon Requestin a couple of loads of men from Wabash College or some military 
My Friend's

academy? It would not take Pany and Mardi Gras would become more exciting for us too. No Cow 



etters
Since Student Government Dear Editor, represents the entire student body, In response to the group of coeds why not seriously consider this signed "Those at home on the proposal from the major minority range", I would like to say that group on campus. their other alternative of leaving 
Yours in equal rights, themselves by bus would be better 
Name Withheld Upon Request for Notre Dame. It was par­ticularly disgusting to have the girls invited from the local Mid­western colleges last weekend
To Greener 

refered to as cattle. It just hap­pens that one of those invited girls Pastures is a good friend of mine. If those coeds who wrote were disappointed 
Dear Editor, 
because the ratio of guys to girlsEvidently the grass is greener in was brought a little closer tothe next pasture. Since it is too late normal, ·it seems to point outto bus in any "cattle" we feel that a serious deficiency in them,your second alternative should be and a substantial insight onacted upon. Rightnow,a collection the part of Notre Dame men. Ifis being made to enable you and all you insist on referring to your sexthe other over-fattened cows to go 
School house Too 
In the Brewery 100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 
The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm .• , .SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 


-~----~----­
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Dan Barrett Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715

Lee Gentine John Kloos 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661

Business Manager Advertising Manager 
BUSINESS: 283-7471 

Friday, February 8, 1974 

Parietals for SMC 
This weekend, the St. Mary's Board of the proper channels, except this last one. Regents is meeting to decide on a number of important issues. Among The students have been waiting on this these issues are a salary increase for the issue for almost a year. It was first faculty, improvement of recreational tabled in May, due to controversy over a facilities, and possible renovation of the letter sent to parents, from persons op­science hall and library. posed to the proposal. The board decided 
it could not come to a decision in such an 

However, the issue of most immediate emotional atmosphere. The second time concern to the student body at this time is it was tabled in October, due to the ad­
parietals. The parietal proposal ex­dition of twelve new board members, who presses the desire of the students to have felt inadequately prepared to vaoe on the extended male visitation hours on 
issue. weekends. The weekend policy of 7:00 The time has clearly arrived for thep.m.-midnight Friday, noon to midnight Board to act on the parietals issue andSaturday, and noon to 10:00 p.m. Sunday, their action should be a positive one. Theis not just a proposal that was hastily put parietals proposal should be passed. Thetogether. 
board must realize that a dormitory is more than a place to sleep, but a homeThe recommendation is result of nine which includes all parts of human life,months of study, done gradually and including social interaction.

carefully by St.Mary's Planning Process, 
-Pattie Cooney

and consequently has gone through all 

Saving Our Goals 
When interviewed Thursday con­force. cerning the state of the Mardi Gras Dealers are overpaying their friends,carnival, Steve Boy said it rather well. 
fanatic gamblers are switching cards,"We've lost sight of our goals." 
and Mardi Gras in going under. There is 

Indeed, it appears we have. no need to single this out as a particularly 
severe disgrace because it is happening 

Security at the Stepan affair has been at Notre Dame. 
tripled in an effort to stamp out the rash It would be a disgrace anywhere. 
of cheating. There is little that can be 
said to soften the impact of such a move This weekend Mardi Gras will make a 
needed at an event dedicated to raising last ditch attempt at survival. Those who 
money for the underprivileged .. attend and spend whatever funds they 
have can return home knowing that there 

We have indeed lost sight of our goals. are people grateful for their generosity. 
Throughout the week, Mardi Gras Those who cheat can return home 
officials have begged for support of the knowing that there are people in pain who 
carnival and raffle in an effort to save the have indeed been cheated. Perhaps if charity extravaganza from financial those needy people were standing on the 
starvation. Beyond a doubt, this Mardi other side of the booth, the moneyGras is staring at discontinuation more wouldn't mean so much.
astutely than any in history. 

Save Mardi Gras. And the people who And yet we must triple our security need it. -Butch Ward 
daanesbury varry trudeau 

HEY, CAP'Nl W&'R.G ALMOST  Y£5, to~ I KNOtU. AT THE L-A5T 11/NI/TC,  8UT, CAP'Nl IAIE'RE C0/1­!1/TTEP TO  WI/, EVER.YBOOY HA5 7lJ 11AKE SACRJFIC£35. WE Al-L HAVE TO PIJU 706Erf.IER.  
Ol/T Or FV£1..../ WE'RE 60NNA  "THEY CHAN6EP FL-Y TJ./&5& OVR. FV£1.... PA55£N6ER.5  OV!'?. PA55ENGER.5 KNOW !HERE'S AN ENERGY CRISIS  
HAVE 7D lANP/  AL.LOCATION  FI</J/1 NEW  ON.  THEY KNEW THAT WJ.Iffl  
SCHGPl/U3...  YORK 10  THEY 60T ON THE PLANE/...  
"'"'-.  CHICAGO/ .. I ,.'' ,,  


Crasslakes I'd Rather be a Mechanic 

la•eph abell 

Concerning the matter that Denis Krill took under wing in a recent article of The Observer, that of upholding the University's rules and regulations, if for no other reason than because they exist, I must admit that I agree· with him, atleast as far as the basis of his argument is concerned. 
Mr. Krill uses as his base the fact that Notre Dame is a private, non-government-supported, university. The students of Notre Dame were not told that dulac was the last place that would be available to them. They were not forced to come here, nor are they forced to stay if they don't like it. Though this is a rather frustrating position to accept, especially when the terms "human rights," "legal rights" and "Christian community" make the headlines for days at a time concerning the treatment by the University of an individual, I suppose I must face facts. Almost quite literally, the University can do with its students what it pleases. 
But one only has to wonder if this truly gives the University the right to do what it wants. Mr. Krill spoke of a "specialness' inherent in Notre Dame, the "specialness" that has lasted throughout these many years the University has been in operation. But doesn't that "specialness' also include the input of the student, Mr. Krill? The "specialness" you seem to des<'ribe is one where the administration of Notre Dame dictates and students meekly accept. 
Mr. Krill's analogy of the University and its students to a r-'achine and its cogs seems particularly inappropriate. In fact, it goes against nearly everything a university (Notre Dame, The University of Michigan, the University of Texas, even Alabama) stands for: to produce human beings. If the University of Notre Darne wished to produce ·'cogs" to fit very neatly within the r.1achine-society of itself and tailored to fit within the,machine of the outside world, it would seem to be a very simple matter to impose West Point-type regulations and enforcement upon the students, thereby venturing into the Dark Ages once again. 
No, Mr. Krill, I believe the University strives to do more than Perely manufacture "cogs"; I think one of its purposes is more iike the grooming of men and women toward their own destiny and f.laturity, the grooming of intelligence and ambition to go after rheir highest dreams. Cogs the world has plenty of; Notre Dame derives its "specialness" from creating men and women. 
Like you, I believe that the adequacy of the University's rules are not the subject here. Neither is the justice or injustice of the so­called "Dillon Hall incident." What is the subject is the willingness of the students to truly become members of the Christian "com­f.lunity" at Notre Dame. Many of the University's attitudes and positions, like those of the Catholic Church, are becoming outdated and imcompatable with modern values and lifestyles. The only way to change some of those attitudes is to work within the structure of the University (or the Church) to press for im­provement. If rnE:mbers of the community would rather sit back on their iaurels and say "well, we should obey all the rules because they're there," things sure won't change. 
This is not to mean that I advocate the entire student body go on a rampage of rule-breaking merely because it doesn't like the rules. But when a rule is passed and is generally ignored both by students, who consistently break it by rectors and other administrators who condone that breaking by turning their heads, and is only enforced by three or four somewhat fanatical administrators, it would seem the rule is more than merely inadequate. There are the rules that need a good, hard looking-into to determine whether they do indeed serve the best interests of the entire community, or whether they only serve the best interests of an outdated philosophy. And since the administration of this University refuses to do that looking the students have no choice but to do it themselves, even if it means breaking it. These students are not the "irregular cogs" who refuse to fit themselves into the machine; they are the tools of the f.lechanic continually adjusting that machine to keep it in top running order. 
If Mr. Krill prefers to remain a complacent cog in his machine of Notre Dame, that's his decision. I certainly pity him when he graduates into the bigger machine of society, for he'll become r.,erely another cog in that machine. I also pity the rest of the country if this kind of defeatist, " there's nothing I can do about it, so why try?" attitude becomes dominant. 
Personally, I have a little more hope in the student body of Notre Dame and the world at large than that. And I certainly think I speak for many people when I say that the role of the adjusting tool m· the r.1echanic is much better for both me and the "machine" than the role of the cog. 
the observer 
Night Editor: AI Rutherford 
Assistant Night Editor: Gary Allietta,

1HI3Y'L-L. 
JUST HAV/3. 
Terry Keeney 

10 SETfl.EFOR 
Typists: Gary Allietta, Clare Kelly, 

P17TS8tJR6H. 
Hinks, Mike Seidel, Bill Menk Day Editors: Valerie Zurblis, Zenon 
Bidzinski Copy Editor: Greg Rowinski Pictures: Jerome Phillips Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Joe Abell 
~ ' .a 


~w.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~l 
Friday, February 8, 1974 the observer 
• 
l•

spender & hollander salute auden 
.

amer1can characters' follow marceau 
About poetry he was never wrong. His eye, ear and mind were amazingly attuned to the whole history of the English tongue, to say nothing of other languages, and like Ezra Pound, he attempted to demonstrate in his writ;ng the compression of history which each reader and writer of a language should feel. 


W.H. Auden was a rare poet if only because he wrote during our time, but his r.1astery of the spoken word will continue to set him apart from contemporaries and occupational descendants. Notre Dame is particularly privileged to have two of Auden's close friends and associates, John Hollander and Stephen Spender, as opening speakers of the 1974 Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Their program Sunday, beginning with their own readings in the afternoon, will also contain a tribute to W.H. Auden in the evening. The inclusion of this feature r.1akes this year's festival one of special significance, as Auden himself had been scheduled to appear at the Festival. His death September 28th gave the world much to r.10urn. There is a special grief in the United States, which was graced by its adopted citizen's residence for over thirty years. 
Auden's command of poetry extended to the tight and serious, and achieved un­paralled results in both fields. Whether charming Dick Cavett and his audience with a well-chosen limerick, or stirring one's greatest sympathies with a memorial for a dead friend, Auden was always ac­complished, a r.1an of the greatest warmth 
' 

Second semester events sponsored by the Dance and Drama Series of the Cultural Art Commission will be highlighted by the appearance of the "greatest living pan­tomimist" -Marcel Marceau, but will also feature a unique American Character "Pini-series" -one man-one woman por­trayals of some of the greatest figures in American literature. 
Picture O'Laughlin Auditorium on the evening of February 19. A last minute bustle by the audience to their seats, tile lights flicker and then the slight shock of total blackness. Calling the audience to attention with the three traditional knocks of French theatre will be Marcel Marceau What follows will be a performance that recalls some of the greatest pantomimist of the century -Charles Chaplin, Buster Keaton, Stan Laurel, Oliver Hardy. All are artists who can create, without the benefit of the spoken word, a whole world of human prototypes in humorous, pathetic, tragic or hilarious situations in life. 
Marceau's own alter-ego "Bip", though physically different (in white face, wearing a striped pull-over, culotte and a worn opera hat topped with a red flower) is essentially a blood brother to Chaplin's Little Tramp, Keaton's Sailor and Laurel's Sad One. As blood brothers, the experiences of the ar­tists' alter egos are understood by all ­
struggling against one handicp or another, 
with joy and sorrow as their daily com­
panions. 
Marceau himself sums up this common 

experience: "The reason for this is that the 
art of mime is not alone physical even 
though it appears to be an art of action. 
The reason for the action comes from the 
soul." For the same reasons audiences can 
enjoy Chaplin and Keaton films, Marcel 
Marceau is being brought to the ND-8MC 
community: mime is a universal and a 
timeless art. 

W.H. Auden's command of poetry will be honored by John Hollander and 
Stephen Spender, two of his close 

and understanding. In his finest moments, Auden has no match: 
Lay your sleeping head, my love, 
Human on my faithless arm; 
Time and fevers burn away 
Individual beauty from 
Thoughtful bchildren, and the grave 
Proves the child ephemeral: 
But in my arms till break of day 
Let the living creatures lie, 
Mortal, guilty, but to me 
The entirely beautiful. 

"Lullaby" is an example of Auden's ability to capture the fleeting, emotion­charged minutes of life in language that is eternally compelling. 
"Gertrude Stein's Gertrude Stein", a one-woman show created in Paris by American actress Nancy Cole, will be the first of the American Character series, presented Sunday, February 17. This internationally acclaimed theater show has been performed at the Edinburgh, Avignon, Dublin and York Festivals and has toured extensively in Europe, Canada ~nd the U.S. All the material in the show has been taken from !he works of Gertrude St~in. 
, 
friends and associates. 
Auden's poetry contains much of the r.1usic, color, economy and directness which one seldom finds together in any poetry. His often-quoted line from "In Memory of W.B. Yeats" (" ..poetry makes nothing happen") r.1ight seem a lie to someone who has just finished reading the poem, so completely IS one drawn into it. But Auden knew that poetry was lame, that it needed voices to read it, and minds to imagine it, and generations will be doing just that. As a citizen of the world when economic ruin and world war gave way to new disasters, Auden was well-equipped to contend that much can happen without poetry's aid, and that only r.1an can hold off the suffering and ignorance of which the poets speak. 
The nature of Cole's show can be best summed up by a quote from Weser Kurier: "Nancy Cole showed how Stein's language studies used repetition to approach com­plete concreteness ..... With rich nuances of mime and gesture, a speaker with a star­tling ability to differentiate and charac­terize, she transformed herself in the wink of an eye into Stein, Picasso, Matisse, typical American women, lovers in a novella and even simple children." 
by ;ohn flannigan 

Stephen Spender himself gives an inter­esting account of how Auden saw the job of the poet. "He(Auden)told me that the subject of a poem was only the peg on which to hang the poetry. A poet was a kind of chemist who mixes his poems out of words, whilst remaining detached from his won feelings. Feelings and emotional ex­periences were only the occasion which precipitated into his mind the idea of a poem. When this had been suggested he ananged words into patterns with a mind whose aim was not to express a feeling, but to concentrate on the best arrangement that could be derived from the occasion." Auden was not a "wordjuggler" though he could twist words,pronunciationsand meanings to achieve the most delightful effect. Auden was first an artist, patiently refashioning, always aware of the power and subtleties of words. 
Wystan Hugh Auden never mistook youth for its ignorance, nor age for its sagacity, but embodied the best of the two. This balance attracted men like Spender and John Hollander, who, great poets in their own right, have benefited from their association with Auden. This passionate fan of Mozart and Stravinsky, a .happy if r~;'lorganized resident of St. Mark's Place in ._..,·eenwich Village, was representative himself of the balance, strength and humor of his poetry. 
In a poem entitled "Alonso to Ferdinand" which is framed as a father's advice to his nost moving evocations of mortality: 
How narrow the space, how slight the chanct' 
For civil pattern and importance 
Between the watery vagueness and 
The triviality of the sand, 
How soon the lively trip is over 
From loose craving to sharp aversion, 
Aimless jelly to paralyzed bone; 

One can only look forward to Sunday evening when Auden's "heirs" come to reconstruct his words, to supply the flesh and color which make W.H. Auden more 1han his bones, and the equal of his words. 

by mike kulczycki 
"The Three Ages of Walt Whitman" is the second American Character presentation on March 24. John Fields will perform d1·amatic readings fror.1 Leaves of Grass combined with three accurate 

'costume changes to present both the sound and sight of Whitman in youth, maturity and old age. Through Fields, Whitman becomes alive as a human presence, reading from his work and portraying Whitman's struggle with his own life and beliefs. 
The third performance of the American Character series will b'e a living portrayal of "Mark Twain at Home" by Tom Noel, on March 31. Mark Twain was the first "swinger" of the century, with deadly haymakers directed musically, politically, and socially, and Twain still "swings" today in the performance by Noel. Mark Twain speaks to all generations, regardless of sex, of nationalities, of races, of political and religious beliefs. Sayings and writings by Twain a hundred years ago are today universal and timeless, touching eternal responses in audiences. 
"An Evening with Ben Hecht", performed by Jim Sullivan, will be presented in Washington Hall on April 21. Sullivan visited Notre Dame last year, sponsored by the Amerian Studies Department, and deserves to be invited back. What Sullivan has in store for the audience was described last year by the Observer: "A humorous outrageous night with the famous Chicag~ journalist, wit, playwright and raconteur in the city he reported, dramatized and spoofed since the turn of the century." 
The final selection of the American Character series will be a performance of Edgar Lee Masters "Spoon River An­thol?gy" by the Alpha-Qmega Players on Apnl 29. 
Admission to each will be $1.00, with all Dance and Drama Patrons admitted free. 

----------~---------------~-----------.. 
New nuclear strategy increases war risk 
' ' \ ' .-.. . . 

the obse·r·ver Friday, February a, 1974 
Counterforce targeting 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Tht new U.S. "counterforce" nu­clear targeting strategy could increase the risks of limited nuclear war, Defense Secretary James R. Schlesinger said Thursday. 
But Schlesinger added he 

hopes that the actual effect will 
be the opposite -to deter the 
Soviet Union from even small­
scale attacks by increasing 
Moscow's uncertainty as to how 
the U.S. would actually re­, spond. Testifying on the 1975 defense budget before the House Armed 
Services Committee, Schlesing­er put a $100 million price tag on the new target system. Most of the money will go into improved command and control for existing missiles, he said. 
Schlesinger was asked by Rep. Bob Wilson, R-Calif., if it was true as some argue that the new strategy increased the chances of nuclear war some­what. 
"I think that is a fair, logical inference," Schlesinger said. "But at the same time we believe that we will be increasing the deterrence to smaller scale attacks." 
Insurgent held in leftist uprising 
ST. GEORGE'S, GRENADA <UPI>-A 38 day-old general strike upstaged independence celebrations for the tiny Caribbean spice island of Frenada Thursday, and a prominent opponent of Prime Minister Erie Gariy was arrested shortly before actual independence. 
Gai1·y, in an independence reception, said his police had uncovered evicence that the leftist New Jewel Movement, led by Maurice I. Bishop, was "planning something for today," presumably an armed insurrection. 
Bishop's home was raided by 70 policemen late Wednesday night­just after telex communications used by foreign newsmen shut down for the night. 
"Telescopic equipment, minitions and camping equipment were found in his garden. He had in his possession a detailedplan of my piace. They were plarlning something for today," Gairy said. 

Bishop, was charged with illegal possession of minutions and jailed in Fort George, just below the parapet where the new flag of Grenada was hoisted after mid­night. Independence meant Grenada's only ties with Britain­which has governed the island since the Treaty of Paris in 1763­was as a member of the Com­monwealth. The island has been self-governing internally since 1967. 
Scores of other political figures were reported in hiding. While Gairy delivered an independence address Wednesday night the home of Michael Sylvester, a lawyer who presented the New Jewl Movement in a commission of inquiry, burned to the grounnd on a hilltop within sight of where Gairy was speaking. No firemen showed 
Wooden replies to apologetic letter 
Editor's note: Dr. Robert Ackerman and Student Body 
. President Dennis Etienne sent a letter to Mr. and Mrs. John Wooden, apologizing for the actions of some fans during the January 19th Notre Dame-UCLA game at the ACC. Here is Coach Wooden's response. 
Dr. Robert L. Ackerman & Dennis P. Etienne Student Affairs University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

Dear Dr. Ackerman & Dennis Etienne: 
Your letter of apology in regard to the disrespecttul actions of some members of your student body at our game at Notre Dame on January 19 was deeply appreciated. 
You may rest assured that neither I nor Mrs. Wooden would permit the actions of a small minority of students to influence our respect for your great university and the large majority of your student body. 
I know your standards and I know your problems. It would be nice if we did not have problems, but we do ·· many of a similar nature and some of an individual situation. 
A number of Notre Dame students and fans have also written me letters of apology. 
Sincerely, 
John Wooden Head Basketball Coach 
Jim 
'63 
Chuck 
'65 


J 

1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 Fighting Irish Bourbon • ss.70/fifth 
INO Football Player Bottles · Limited Supply 
GO IRISH· BASH THE BLUE DEVILS 
EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 
10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUpR AND WINE TO ORDER KEGS 
up. Gairy's opponents charg he has 
Gairy hinted there could be more recruited a secret police from the 
arrests. Asked about this he said island's prisons and used them to 
he would "take all steps harass his political enemies. They 
necessary" to restore the island to had hoped to force him out of office 
normalcy. ·before independence. They asked 
In his address, broadcast by 'BI"itain to delay Thursday'sGrenada Radio but available only ceremony, but London refused. 
to those with battery-powered sets, The Royal Navy did send a frigateGariy appealed to his opponents to to St. George's, however, to return the nation to normal. 
evacuate Americans and Britons in case of violence. 
US to turn over Aside from about 300 policemen! 
who shot their weapons into the air 
Panama Canal just past midnight, there was no 
violence visible. Instead, In­
. dependence Day was a somber 
~ AMA CITY <UPD -The affair with most residents worried 
Umted States agreed Thursday . about a growing food and fuel 
to turn the Panama Canal_ over shortage brought on by a strike by 
eventually to the Republic of longshoremen
Panama but the accord failed · 
to pacify Panamanian students 
who besieged U.S. Secretary of 
State Henry A. Kissinger after 
it was signed. 

As Kissinger toasted the pact 
on the third floor of the 
Panamanian legislative buil­
ding, he was drowned out by 
2,000 students and laborers 
shouting and singing anti­
American slogans outside. 

"Gringo Animal Get Out of 
the Canal," read one placard 
carried in the demonstration. "Sovereignty or Death," said another. 
The unruly crowd failed to respond to appeals by Panamanian National Guard Col. Manuel Antonio Noriega to move back and blocked the front entrance to the building. 
planning a \\l'tkling•? <'all Ttw 234-5822 \\roding Phologrnpht.,. 
234-5822 MICHAEL LONIER 
~~~ 
Later he added "the exist­ence of a deterrent will hopefully prevent any outbreak of a conflict of this (small)order." 
Schlesinger denied under questioning by Rep. u;s Aspin, D-Wis., that his new counter­force strategy is the same as a counterforcestrategy conceived in the 1950s -a means to wipe out an enemy's nuclear forces in a first strike. 
"That sort of thing, the capability to dig out the other side's (missile) silos, would represent ins ta bili ty," he said. "But we are not in a position to attain a capability to wipe out the Soviet Union's second strike capability, nor can they do it to us," he added. 
. . Nevertheless, ·he said, money Is needed to improve the accuracy of U.S. missiles and rnake their warheads bigger because the U.S. must maintain parity with the Russians. Giving exact figures for the first time, he said if the Russians deploy four of the new ICBMs <Intercontinental Ballis­tic Missiles) they are working on, they will achieve a "throw weight" or total missile pay­load of 10 to 12 million pounds -five to six times the total for the U.S. Minuteman fleet.· 


Student Union Invites You To 


ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via BraniH 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
'12 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar 

* 
Baggage handling &transportation to &from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service ,.'-targes for above 
Reservations now being taken at SU Ticket OHice Total payment of $270 due by 
February 14 (Valentine's Day) 
.., 

Questions • _call Sween at 3669 
9

Friday, February 8, 1974 the obse.rver 
l 
1 
l
Campus briefs • • • 
Processing innovation 
The newest innovation of the United States Postal Service ­AREA MAIL PROCESSING -is now in operation in the Notre Dame Post Office. 
"The program is intended to speed the ultimate delivery of the r.,ail and to gain maximum ef­fic~ncy and economy through full utilization of South Bend's Pechanized post office," Brother Ramon Purzycki, Notre Dame postr.1aster explained. South Bend has one tetter sorting maching with a capability of sorting 30,000 letters per hour into 277 separations with only 12 operator positions; also two automatic canceling r.1achines capable of facing and handling 20,000 letters per hour," he added. 
The South Bend Office is a Sectional Center services: 46 associate post offices, and the new system will revolve entirely around that capacity and that function. A1·ea Mail Processing is a pian whereby virtually all mail originating within a Sectional Center facility area, including Notre Dame wil be consolidated at the SCG for complete preparation and processing for outgoing dispatch. 
All mail deposited in the campus letter boxes, at Notre Dame and St. Mary's College, will be transfered to the Sectional Center (SCF) for processing and will bear the pos(r.1ark designated fm· our S~F. which will be US Postal Service 
465. Oniy Pail deposited in our Box Section Lobby -in the slot Parked NOTRE DAME POST­MARK will bear the NOTRE DAME postmark. All m·etered 
Report on Watergate is delayed 
By WESLEY G. PIPPERT 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Senate Watergate committee bowed to a request by special prosecutor Leon Jaworski Thursday and voted to delay its final report for three months, until May 28. 
Sen. Sam J. Ervin Jr., D­N.C., the committee chairman, told reporters after a 2-% hour meeting of his panel that the delay was approved to "obviate the danger of prejudice to individuals" who might be indicted by the Watergate grand jury. 
Ervin said the committee also voted to share all its information -"everything" ­with the House Judiciary Committee now empowered by the House to pursue every lead with unlimited subpoena powers in it inquiry into possible grounds for impeaching Presi­dent Nixon. 
Ervin's committee responded to a Jaworski request one week ago to delay its final report bl'cause he believed the federal grand jury would hand down mass indictments in the Water­gate case within 10 days. 
Ervin explained that if indictments were returned one day, and the committee made its final report the next, the defendants almost certainly would claim prejudicial pretrial publicity as an argument for dismissal o£ the. ~~d.i.ct~1ents:•.•. 
• ' I I .... I I I • I 
nail will bear the Notre Dame postmark.. It is emphasized that 
Winners 

no office will lose its local post­r.,ark. B1·other Ramon Purzycki will 
revealed

c1mtinue to inform all concerning further developments in con­junction with this new plan. He The winners in the Notre Dame stresses the use of Zip Codes in all Rugby Club's fourth annual raffle addresses has never been more 
were Mrs. Ruth McNelis, 406 W. 

important than now, with the in­16th., Tyrone Pa, and Mr. ,Jimstitution of Area Mail Processing. 
McDermott, 857 Timber Lane, Lake Forest, Ill. Mrs. McNelis won first prize of two round trip plane tickets to

Student 
Ireland and Mr. McDermott won the color television. The raffle took place Jnauary 17. The

delegate 
proceeds will go towards this year's trip to Ireland, March 8 to March 20.

named 
Mike Wilson, a senior 
$50 deposit

psychology 11.1ajor, was elected undergraduate representative to the psychology department. 
clarified 

Wilson got 60 percent of the votes in the electiOn held last Friday. 
by Drew Wallach Wiison will have a vote in nearly Staff Reporter

all matters at departmental faculty meeting. Students have become confused 
Undergraduates will also be 1·egarding the advanced represented by the Coordinate of enmllment deposit and the housing the Psychology Society, a non secul"ity deposit, according to voting representative to depart­Director of the Office of Student mental meetings. Accounts Emerit Moore. 
A permanent state of officers of The enrollment deposit of $50 is the Societety will be elected in the due during the period of February near future. 11-15. The security deposit, also 
Heath calls for vote on coal miners strike 
By JOSEPH W. GRIGG He appealed to "the voice of 
LONDON (UPI} -Prime moderate and reasonable peo­Minister Edward Heath, gam­ple" to say to the extremists bling his political future against and militants: "We have had that of his embattled nation, enough. For heaven's sake let's Thursday called for new get on with it." elections Feb. 28 and asked In a letter to mineworkers coal miners to call off a leader Joe Gormley, a modera­scheduled weekend strike which te, Heath appealed to the industry leaders said could miners "in the national in­wreck Britain's economy. terest" to call off their strike 
"There are some people scheduled to start at midnight involved in the mining dispute Saturday. who have made it clear that Gormley said he personally 
what they want is to bring favored this. But leftwing union down the elected government­leaders said the strike should not just this government but go ahead. any government," Heath told Gormley called a union the nation on television. "They executive meeting Friday to have made it clear they want to decide. bring down the whole demo­If the miners strike, industry cratic way of life. leaders have warned the 
"The majority of you are fed economy could be ruuined. to death with them and the Britain depends on coal for 70 disruption they cause." per cent of its energy. 
THE ROMA 

welcomes all Notre Dame & St. Mary's students your host Frank Anastasio 
This weekend, rock entertainment by CANTALOUPE ISLAND Pizza * Fine Italian Food * Liquor for deliveries call 234-3258 
Upstairs in the Attic -Acoustical Music 
.______
219 N .. Mich. Ave. Downtown South Bend 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE 

STEVE PASPEK 
JOHN SALVESON JIM GRESSER BART POLLOC SLOW 
hot fudge sundaes beneath cafeteria 40 cents 
9:30 -1:30 come down!! 
~ I f • • • " .' 
·• • 1 t t t • • 1 1 I I f '-• I • I I • _" I II 1 # I • ~ • 

$50, is paid once freshman year and refunded after the student 
Alumni hall

ieaves the campus housing facilities. 
Students planning to attend the University in the September 1974 semester must pay the advanced enrollment deposit. The money will be credited against the student's net obligations at that time. 
"Although the deposit will not be required in the case of some scholarship holders, they should come in and confirm their intent to return next year," Moore added. 
Doctor sues ISU student 
A $1 million libel suit has been filed by a Bloomington dentist against the Indiana Daily Student campus newspaper, alleging a statement in the newspaper damaged his professional reputation. 
The suit was filed by Dr. Harold 
E. Brewer Sr. in Monoe Superior Court 2, Tuesday. It also named IDS publisher Jack Backer, a reporter and the IU trustees as defendants. 
The suit claimed a reader's question, printed Aug. 6 in the column Gripe Vine, and an Aug. 14 clarification linked the unnamed dentist's office with his clinic about five miles east of Bloomington. 
government 
elected 
Mark Nishan, a sophomore 
business major from Morristown, 
New Jersey, was elected President 
of Alumni Hall Tuesday, suc­
ceeding Phil Byrne. Nishan, who 
will take office February 19, 
defeated Tom Melendrez, a junior 
fror.1 Hayward, California. 
Elected to the secretary­
treasurer position was Steve 
Diebold, a sophomore from 
Louisville; Ken. Diebold overcame 
a strong challenge by Jerry 
Kingenberge, a Fort Wayne, Ind., 
freshman. 
Regina Pres. announced 
Mirdy Montesi was elected 
president of Regina Hall, Thur­sday, with 78 votes and 7 ab­, stentions. Laurie Peeler was elected vice president of Regina Nm·thwith30 votes and 1 abstention. 


RoGERS 
Optical 
lOGEI A'IWEU. -OWHI!I. 
HOURS: 
MON -TUES -THUa -Pit 
'AM 5::10 PM W!D -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPLEI'£ SPliCI'AClE 
SElYICE 
AlL flE 01.'S PIIESCJIPTIONS HOHOIE[ 
e..lt 
2.89-7809 

r,,m McMahon General Agenl 

N.;rm Wallace 

. ' 
''e~rafter ~ear, -.;eme~ter
I alter semester, the 
Colle~eMaster' from 
Fidelit\' L'nion I.ife has 
hcen the most accepted, 
most popular plan on 
campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union 
CollegeMaster·· 
Field Associate 
in your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend , Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
~.·~:;~~....
. 
..t;,. 
-; 
·.• 
'
•

CDllegeMaster· 

'{o .... ~fJi·e·~(jb5·ef..O·~r. ·------:·F~id~v;·~~br~~r~·s::l-~74 
Turn down agreement 
Truckers vote to continue strike 
By United Press International 
An agreement announced by the federal government to end the independent truckers strike was shouted down in drivers meetings across the country Thursday. 
The agreement was endorsed by the Fraternal Association of Steelhaulers which claims 100,000 members and whose president, William Hill, was a key negotiator in the Washing­ton talks. 
Hill said the agreement was "a good offer, as good as we can get," and Leonard Fleet, an attorney for some owner­operators, said chances for a continuation of the strike were "ren1ote." 

But truckers at meetings in Kansas City, Kan., Phoenix and Tucson, Ariz., Hudson, Wis., and Orlando, Fla., voted 
overwhelmingly  to  remain  on  
strike because  the  agreement  
did  not  roll  back  diesel  fuel  

prices or lift 55-mph speed limits. 

President's lavvyers to discuss Watergate 
WASHINGTON ( UPO-President Nixon has instructed his chief Watergate lawyer to offer to meet with the leaders of the House Judiciary Committee's im­peachment inquiry, Chairman Peter W. Rodino disclosed Thursday. 
Rodino said he and Rep. Edward Hutchinson of Michigan, the committee's senior Republican, instructed the inquiry's top lawyers -special counsel John Doar and Republican counsel Albert E. Jenner -to seek a met-ling with the White House lawyer, James B. St. Clair. 
Rodino declined to characterize the significance of the President's initiative -his first formal com­munication with the impeachment inquiry. But Hutchinson said he was "pleased ... hopeful." 
The committee is still uncertain whether Nixon will cooperate with 

its inquiry ana nonor Its requests and subpoenas or resist them. 
The meeting between St. Clair and the top committee lawyers should provide an answer. Rodino said no date or place had been set for their talks. 
Two top GOP officeholders -Vice President Gerald R. Ford and House Republican Leader John J. Rhodes -told reporters at separate news conferences Thursday that Nixon would be justified in witholding information if the House committee seeks irrelevant material. 
Ford said Nixon could refuse to comply if the committee "goes off in 10 different directions." 
Rhodes agreed, saying "there's nothing in the law or resolutior that compels the President t& answer a subpoena that asks for irrelevant material." 
"Are you guys going back to work?" asked Ken Nelson of Coates, Minn., at a meeting held in a truck stop near Hudson, Wis. 
"No," the drivers roared. 

The eight-day strike, plagued with violence, has taken two lives and resulted in shortages and cutbacks in which nearly 100,000 persons were laid off in the industrialized east. 
National Guardsmen pa­trolled the highways in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Indiana and West Vir11:inia. 
In Indiana Thursday, driver Paul Harpole, 30, of Belleville, Ttl., told police he was beaten 
y four men on the western 
utskirts of Indianapolis. Anoth­
r driver reported his truck ·tred on from a passing car. 
The agreement was also !'ejected by spokesmen or officials of United Truckers of America, Truckers for Justice, the Unity Committee, ar Alabama group; Indepenc'oont Drivers of America Ltd., Overdrive Magazine and Road­master Magazine, both truckers publications; and groups in northeastern Ohio, Mississippi, Georgia, East and West Texas, and Fresno, Calif. 
President Nixon and officials of eastern industrial states badly hit by the strike had expressed hope the agreement, negotiated in four days of round-the-clock talks in Wash­ington in which Nixon took a personal hand, would end the strike by this weekend. 
Industrial and agricultural plant closings attributed direct-
Claims girl unharmed 
Letter received froiD kidnapers 
By ROBERT STRAND BERKELEY, Calif. (UPI} ­A letter alleged to be from the terrorist Sym bionese Liberation Army Thursday claimed re­sponsibility for the kidnaping of 19-year-old Patricia Hearst, granddaughter of the late 
newspaper Randolph H publisher earst.  William  
The letter unharmed.  said  the  girl  was  

It was received by radio station KPF A which said it was turned over to the Hearst family. 
With ·the letter was a credit card bearing the name of the kidnap victim's father, Ran­dolph A. Hearst, president and

r editor of the San Francisco Examiner. Paul Fischer, news director of the radio station, said he was "virtually certain" the credit card was authentic. He said he had turned the letter over to the victim's parents and "It's up to them what they want to do with it." Fischer said the letter "claims responsibility for the kidnaping and indicates further 
communications will be made." 
It  did  not  mention  ransom,  he  
said.  
The  letter  gave  general  

political reasons for the kidnap­ing of a conservative publi­sher's daughter, Fischer said. 
In addition to saying that Miss Hearst was unharmed, the letter said she was being held captive. 
Fischer said he has received previous communications from the Symbionese Liberation Army and that this one seemed to be like the others. He is convinced of its authenticity, he said. 

Miss Hearst was abducted from her Berkeley apartment Monday night in a commando­like raid, and until Thursday there had been no word of any kind from anyone claiming responsibility for the abduction. 
The Sym bionese Liberation Army earlier claimed responsi­bility for the murder of Oakland Schools Superintendent Marcus A. Foster, who was shot Nov. 6 in an Oakland parking lot. The SLA sent a letter to police following the Foster murder saying it was developing a plan to finance a "war against the establish­ment" by kidnaping prominent Bay Area persons. 
Two white men were later arrested in the Foster killing, and through them police found a house in suburban Concord, Calif., believed to be a neadquarters of the group. Evidence in the house, police said, confirmed the kidnap­ransom plot mentioned in the letter to the police. 
A white woman, identified as Nancy Ling Perry, who lived in the house is still being sought. 
Earlier Thursday the fiance of the kidnap victim appealed 
from  his  hospital  bed  for  her  
safe  release  and  vowed  he  
would  not  testify against  her  

abductors if she is returned unharmed. 

3-rd WEEK 
,.. one 288-8488 for times & directio 

l . • ' . ' • ~ 

ly to the truckers' strike was pushing up the number of 
Americans  thrown  out  work  
toward  the  100,000 mark.  
Trucks loaded  with  food  

headed to the nation's big cities Thursday even before drivers voted on a tentative agreement between the government and truckers to end a strike that had led to scare buying by worried housewives. 
Supermarket chains reported some foods such as chicken and meat were already scarce in several areas. Fresh supplies were on their way to the major northern population centers but it was not certain just 'how much food was on its way or what would happen if the drivers rejected the Washington agreement. 
Although the agreement held out hope of reopening food pipelines, some food industry officials said higher freight rates allowed truckers would mean consumers would pay more for groceries. 
A spokesman for Allied's 87 supermarkets in Michigan said food trucks began deliveries direct to stores immediately after the tentative agreement was announced. 
"The trucks are making direct shipment to the stores without state police escorts or traveling in convoys, and we are within 30 hours of trucks leaving from Florida for Michigan" Allied senior vice president Charles Martin said. 
Martin said that "we would have reached a critical period bv the weekend." 
A spokesman at the Pompano State Farmers Market in Florida, the nation's largest winter produce terminal, said that some drivers who had been afraid to go on the highways during the height of the strike were moving out. But, he said, the number was fewer than usual. 
Pennsylvania Lt. Gov. Kline said National Guard troops would no longer be used to help deliver food, although Guards­men escorted four milk trucks from the Pennsylvania line near Cumberland, Md., to Altoona and Johnstown, Pa., where milk supplies were "very low." 

tu ;t:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~l 256-0111 :::: 40 Yo off ::::
-]:. :. ·J..~
~:. ]Jr.
: ' ' . .:;;
1& '· ...... ~· \\~Party Supplies ,~;l; ::~:::=:::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Cards
rrll·. X\<.?) 1{ 
Books

~ ~J B·~)u_fJJ .~ 
Magazines
llllf1111htll

~ • .\>:·-\\\_' 
ltiWI\ & t;IIUJ1tly 1·w 1 ,' 2340 mn.tdt! l,uw .t10pp1119 C1!11h'l l ~ ...... ,. • (.,. .. • tntsh.tw.tk..t. trtdt.tn.t 4ll~lo.l4 
Art Supplies 

If you compare, you'll select ltna... If you don't compare, don't say we didn't warn you! 
JIM CAMPBELL 
120 W. LaSalle Street 
Suite 1001 

South Bend, Indiana 
233-8207 
lf§uP.i

The JEtna College Plan ... 
LIFE&CASUALTY

Life Insurance for students A::tna Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
TONITE AT THE SENIOR BAR 
Monster Nite for the Hard Core 
how manv monsters can you handle?? 
46 oz. 

Super Giant Monster Cups of Beer 
$1.00 
While They Last! 

AND THAT'S NOT ALL II 
10 hours of TEQUILA SUNRISE 
at ha If price 
only 40' 

DANCING EVERY,. SA-.T,URDAY,!,. '
._, . . 


Irish entertain Blue Devils 
r­
(continued from page 12) 
But whether it's a physical battle or not, tomorrow's game will be hotly contested; there's no doubt about that in anyone's r.1ind. When club with 999 career victories meets a 17-1 team it has never lost to, something has to give. Or at least remain stationary. 
And the Irish coaches are hoping that, when Saturday's contest is over, Duke's drive to 1000 wins will still be where it is now: at 999 and holding. 
ND. MSU face 'must win' set 
(continued from page 12) 
portantly, shows that this team still believes in itself . And this kind of attitude can be infectious. 
Approximately 150 Spartan followers will be making the journey down from East Lansing, and if they expect to find a calm, Irish cheering section, they'll note a surprising fact. ND fans aren't noted for their quiet manner. They were feverish against 'Bama and UCLA, and they should be that way this weekend. 
Both games can be heard over WNDU 0490) and WSND (on­campus) for those unfortunates not holding a pass for either of these important sellouts. 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 

"To deal with the problem that 
defies objectivity in a non-biased 
fashion" was the them of the 
Tuesday night lecture given by 
Professor Howard Dooley on 
"American and Israeli relations 
after the Yom Kippur War." The 
lecture was held in the Carrol 
Auditorium of Madeleva Hall, 
Saint Mary's College. 
Professor Dooley emphasized 
that for the United Stated, Middle 
East relations were a "timely 
issue" politically. The recent war 
changed many of the stereotyped 
images cast on Arab-Israeli 
relations. Syria and Egypt's 
r.1ilitary success in the recent war 
surprised nearly everyone (in­
cluding the Arabs), Dooley 
suggested. 
Arab oil diplomacy has put 
economic pressure behind the Aab 
side of the Middle East conflict. 
The peace talks brought about by 
the war were the first bipartisan 
conferences between the nations 
sicce 1967 seven-day war. The 
results of these conferences was 
even more precedent making 
marking the first Israeli military 
pull back in twenty years, Dooley 
added. 
Professor Dooley also em­
phasized the controversial nature 
of the issue in American Politics 
which fuses strong emotion tie~ 
with a multitude of complicating 
factors. Factors such as th 
geographic position of the Arab 
states atop the world's largest oil 
fields containg ninety percent of 
the world's proven oil reserves the 
political pressure exerted by' the 
American Jewish minority and the 
Israeli lobbyist and Isreal's 
military significance for the 
United States as a check upon both 
Russian and Arab power in the 
Middle East. 
Dooley also reviewM the 
historical and cultural roots of the 
conflict. While it held the entire 
Middle East as a colony, Britain 
promised the Palestinian lands 
both to the Palestinian Arabs and 
to Jewish colonist. Both sides can 
document lee:al claims to the 
·------~-------.
-----------------------------------~-----
FridaY, February. 8, 1974 the observer 1 1 

Ray Martin: a sub who may start. 
SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH 

territory that is now Israel. At­tempts at establishing justice for the Jewish race have caused an injustice to be done to the Arabs. Zionist nationalismand Arab patriotism also has lead to conflict. 
There is finally a conflict arising out of what Dooley called Israeli genocide paranoia vs. Arab r.1achismo. For thz Israeli r.1emories of the gas-chambers of World War II are still clearly in r.1ind. As a result Arab threats of driving Israel into the sea are taken seriously and responded to with extreme aggression. 
On the other hand, Arab culture with its emphasis on honnor befor~ the peer group, is embarassed by Israel's military and economic successes amidst their relative failures. As a result they also react with aggression. 
Despite the complexity of the problems he outlined, Dooley looked at the present situation hopefully. Through Sada t's oil diplomacy and military campaign of last fall the "log jam" in Arab­Israeli relations has been broken. Further, Mr. Henry Kissinger's success in reaching an interim peac~ settlement could possibly provide a stable base from which more permanent settlements could be reached. 
Finally tying it all together, Dooley espoused five necessary conditions for a lasting peace in the Middle East; the creation of another nation in the Palestine area--as a homelanp for the Palestinian Arabs strong border defences for Israel, the for-r.1ulation of a specific written treaty defining the United States commitment to Israel militarily, and the end of the "greater Israel dream"~Israel's hope of becoming a stronger world in­dustrial and military force through the_acqui_s~tion of Arab territory in theier military campaigns. 
Peron slams leftist group 
BUENOS AIRES <UPI)­President Juan D. Peron virtually read the left wing Faronist Youth Organization JP out of his divided party Thursday in a speech before rightwing youth leaders. 
Baron also recognized. the existence of "shortcomings" in his 17 week old government ·and promised a gradual purge of some rightists. 
The leaders of the JP were not invited to Thursday's meeting with 56 rightist youth leaders. Last week the JP leadership boycotted a ~imiliar meeting because, they said, the other representatives "do not represent anybody." 
The leftist JP is known as the 
Baronist Youth of the 
"Revolutionary Tendency" and 
the rightist is known as the 
Peronist youth of the Argentine 
Republic. JPRA 
Baron said;"I don't know what 
they are attempting, those who 
belong to the so called 'tendency.' 
I prefer a few leaders, but good 
ones." 

Bridge Players 
Duplicate Bridge 

EVERY MONDAY 7:30pm FLANNER CARD ROOM 25' 
Brush up for the spring trophy game! 

5:15pm Sat. 
9:30 am Sun. 
10:45 am Sun. 
12:15 pm Sun. 
4:30 pm Sun. 6:30pm Sun. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC Fr. Oliver Williams, CSC Fr. Giles Pater 
Evensong, Lady Chapel Byzantine Rite, Holy Cross 
WED. FEB. 13th 
Thru 
SUN. FEB. 17th 
NOTRE DAME Athletic and Convocation Center 

fAPADES 
PRICES: 1 TICKETS ON SALE: 
NOTRE DAME A. C. C.
$4.00 $5.00 BOX OFFICE 

All Seats Resened MON. SIT. g to 5 1/2 price tickets for Notre Dame • St. Mary's students on these performances: Thur~ 8pm, Sat. 2 pm, 


CLASSIFIED FIDS 
NOTICES 
all Sophomre Literary Festival authors 20 per cent off at PANDORAS, N. St. Louis St. at SB ave. 233-2342. Open 7 days. 
" THE WONDERNYMPH RETURNS TO DU LAC. OH HAPPY DAYS. " 
Attention Faculty and Staff: L•loking for interior and ex­
erior painting jobs by ex­~erienced ND students . Reasonable. Available now fer in •erior work. Call 233-9231. 
We still have Youth Fares lo Europe! Call Clark at 234-2098 and save $$$. 
Need volunteer rock band for retarded. Call Mast 234-2101. 
Good lix will available at door for the Quicksilver concert at Morris'civic. Sunday 7:30pm. 
Hockey sunday night: Grace tower gorillas vs. the Cavanaugh cowboys. 12: 15 at the ACC. 
FOR SALE 
Pinball machine. Cheap and exciting. Call Joe 233-0147. 
Pioneer SASOOA, PL 12-D urn table, (2) smaller Advents, $285. All new. Golden Dome records 804 Flanner Pl1. 1487. 
Wilson classic golf clubs , bag, balls, and tees. Less than year .·ld. Best offer. 8428. 
WANTED 
Need 4 people to share house next year. Call 233-9231. 
Need ride to Madison , Wis. Fri. after 2 pm. .6727. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost Girl's coat accidentally swapped in Grace basement. Camel coat with criss-cross fie belt, silver pin, Branson's label. 6756. 
PERSONALS 
Marlene, Happy Birthday. and best of luck with T. Love, Denny, Paul, Steve, Rob. 

the observer Friday, February 8, 1974
12 

Duke's dominance threatens ND· 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
Quickly, now. Look at a copy of Notre Dame's 1973-74 basketball schedule and pick out the one opponent that the Fighting Irish have never been able to defeat. 
UCLA? Of course not, and a poor choice. Marquette? No. How about South Carolina? Wrong again.. Ohio State, Indiana, For­dham? Still off the mark. Which team, then, hasn't Notre Dame been able to handle? 
How about tomorrow afternoon's opponent, the Duke Blue Devils? 
The Blue Devils and the Fighting Irish haven't collided often during the course of thier brief in­tercollegiate series-a series which began back in '65-but Duke has made the most of it when the two teams have gotten together. 
The Blue Devils have won every one of their five meetings with the Irish-the most recent decision coming last year, when Duke smothered ND, 86-74, in the Cameron Indoor Stadium. 
Notre Dame and Duke will play Game Six of their series tomorrow at two in the ACC, and the Blue Devils, an 8-10 team coming into the contest, will be looking for more than a sixth consecutive win against the Irish when the two teams go up for the opening tap. They'll be looking for more even, than an upset victory over the nation's third-ranked college basketball team. 
All season long, coach Neill McGeachy's young, scrappy team has been clawing its way through a demanding Atlantic Coast Conference schedule in search of Duke's 1000th collegiate basketball victory. The Devils from Durham, North Carolina, entered the season with 991 triumphs to their credit, and won five fof the season's first seven games. 
But Duke has hit a dry spell since 
. then, and now, tangled up in the most brutal week on anyone's cage schedule, is stuck at the 999 mark. 
"It will be an incredible stretch for us," said McGeachy early last week, as his team prepared to face Davidson, Maryland, N.C. State, Wake Forest, and Notre Dame. "The preparation for and the playing of so many of the fine teams in the land will be a severe test, but it will be one we are looking forward to." 
The Blue Devils entered the 1Q­day span with a 7-7 mark, but have been battered by ACC foes during the past several games, and have been able to defeat only the Davidson Wildcats. So tomorrow, with their seasonal record at 8-10, and their overall-victory mark holding at 999, the Duke Blue Devils will challenge Notre Dame, the nation's number-three team. 
The team McGeachy will bring to South Bend has lost the services of Gary Melchionni and Alan Shaw, two of last year's senior stars, but it returns several of the players who had a hand in last year's humiliation of the NIT­bound Irish. 
Junior center Bob Fleischer leads the returnees. Fleischer, •at 6­8, is averaging 16.6 points and 12.2 rebounds per game, and he is joined in the front court by 6-9 Willie Hodge 00.3 ppg) and by 6-4 Pete Kramer (8.6). 
The guard posts are held down by 6-2 Kevin Billerman (10.8) and 6-5 Edgar Burch (6.8). And the Blue Devil bench is stronger than it's been in years. Chris Redding, a hot-shooting reserve forward, doesn't start, but is still averaging 
12.9 points and 5.4 rebounds per game. And there are other first­rate competitors, including several blue-chip freshmen, waiting in the wings behind

.... 
Redding. "Our depth is certainly im­proving with every game," said the Duke coach, "and this will be a big factor with many of the games during the period now facing us." 

But if the Blue Devils are hoping to win with their depth tomorrow, they'll be given a severe test by the homestanding Irish, who have worked a complete turnover from their "Iron-man Five" days of one year ago. Nine Blue Devil cagers saw action, and eight scored against Notre Dame in last year's game, and Irish coach Digger Phelps is likely to use nearly as rnany players against his visitors tomorrow. It's a sure bet that John Shumate, Gary Brokaw, "Goose" Novak, and Adrian Dantley will start tomorrow against Duke, but the other member of ND's starting team, point guard Dwight Clay, is a doubtful starter. 
Clay injured his ankle in Wed­nesday's 98-78 victory over LaSalle, and his status was still in doubt yesterday afternoon. But if the "Iceman" is unable to start, his place will be filled by freshman guard Dice Martin, a capable performer in his own right. 
Dice joined reserves Billy Paterno and Pete Crotty as a participant in the bruising battle with LaSalle, and the Irish coach may send the same three into his line-up tomorrow, particularly if the game becomes a rugged one. 
(continued on page 11) 
ND vs. Spartans--not for the meek 

by John Fineran 

If you're thinking about having a quiet weekend, don't plan on starting it tonight in the A.C.C. at 
7:30 p.m.. For you see, those Spartans of Michigan State ·are coming into the North Dome to take on Notre Dame's hockey team, and if the past is an in­dication of what ro expect, this series promises to be a real barn­burner. 
The Spartans, IO-U-I for 2l points and fifth in the WCHA and the Irish 
8-11-1 for a seventh-place tie follow the same pattern on the ice as other MSU-ND squads do in the basketball and football arenas. Three words are synonymous to the rivalry-aggressive, physical and exciting. This weekend will iikely not prove otherwise. 
Michigan State coach Amo Bessone sets the tone f.or his squad. 
No one has ever f.'ade the mistake of calling him meek, and the same word is useless in describing his Spartans. A com­parative look at the teams' stats will reveal MSU with 73 more penalties for 151 more minutes of sinful activity than Notre Dame. 
And while five State· players have accumulated 20 or more penalties, all five stand among the top-seven Spartan scorers. Call them aggressive, intimidating or whatever, but you also have to call the Spartans talented. 
Sophomore Steve Colp, a talented centerman, leads the Spartans and the WCHA in scoring, currently holding a seven point bulge over Doug Palazzari of Colorado Coilege and teammate Tom Ross. Colp has also logged 40 minutes in the penalty box on his 20 penalties. 
Norm Barnes, a rugged (6-1, 190 pound) junior defenseman, stands fifth in league scoring with five goals and 35 assists (a WCHA high). He also has accumulated 84 minutes on 42 penalties. 

Sophomores John Sturges, a left wing, and Brendan Moroney, a rightsider, also are members of Stale's 20-penalties-or-more Club, and each is also adept at finding the opposition's net, Sturges reaching it 18 times, seven more than Moroney. 
Ross, another sophomore center, has scored 22 goals, seven of which came in State's 8-5 and 9-5 routs of the Irish in November. And, he has spent more time on the ice, only visiting the penalty box on 13 oc­casions. 
Aggressiveness doesn't stop at goalie, either, for State. Freshman Gary Carr, a promising goaltender everyone actively recruited, has seen teammates log 16 minutes on his four penalties. His 5.3 goals­against is deceiving because, although the Spartans are scoring well, their defense has had problems. 
"Our series with Michigan State has always been a physical one," Irish coach Lefty Smith said. "I'm just happy we're playing them at home. 
"We still need to win six of our 
last eight games to get to the top 
four, and we have to be physical 
and aggressive against the 
Spartans." 
The Irish, after penalty trouble 
t>ariy •his season, seemed to be reluctant to use their bodies. At least, they had been reluctant before last weekend's North Dakota series. It took a 5-8, 160 pound freshman from Harvard's backyard to show the Irish where they had been lax. 
Brian Walsh, who had missed much of the January action because of various injuries, returned to solidify the now number-one Irish line, freshmen Clark Hamilton andn Alex Pirus manning his wings. The trio had an excellent series in North Dakota, Walsh himself scored five times and assisted thrice. In short, they added waJT,Jih with their aggressive play to what could have been a cold, cold weekend in frigid (minus 33 degrees) Grand Forks. 
"I am extremely pleased with 
the way Brian has taken charge of 
the line," Smith continued. "Alex 
is beginning to score, and Clark is 
too." 
Pat Conroy, Ray DeLorenzi and 
Larry Israelson constitute the 
second line, and Ric Schaefer has 
rejoined Ian Williams on the third 
unit after a spell on the blueline. 
Eddie Bumbacco or Jim Augustine 
will be Schafer's left wing. 
Paul Clarke will see action this 
weekend after injuring his groin 
and he will pair with frosh Jack 
Brownschildle. Les Larson and 
Roger Bourque and the Edina, 
Minn. seniors, Steve Curry and Bill 
Nyrop, will be the other units. 
Mark Kronholm will be in goal 
both evenings. 
"I think we have had an ex­
cellent week of practice, and we're 
ready for the Spartans." 
Nyrop's quote, more im­
(continued on page 11) 







