
---~----------~---~~ ~-~-----·-~--------------~-----~--------------------­
Oil The IDalde 
Nixon resigns from Bar ...page 3 
Campus Br[efs ...page 6 




serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
VoL IX No. B Tuesday, September 10, 1974 
Hesburgh expected at next :rmeting 

SLC learns of sex rule veto 

Faculty members react to Nixon S pardon 
by Gregg Bangs Staff Reporter 

President Gerald Ford's pardon of Richard Nixon has brought reactions varying from passive ac­ceptance to 'expletives deleted' among the Notre Dame faculty. On the day after the President's un­precedented announcement, a number of faculty members differed in the general reaction to legal, political, and historical aspects of the Nixon pardon. 
'Expletive d(!leted' was the initial reaction of Robert Kerby, assistant professor of history. Kerby admitted 
;r-·~~ 

. 
I \ \"' 
<Prof. Bartholomew was pleased with Ford's decision) 
he had written a letter to the President calling his decision a tragic mistake.' 
However, Law School Dean Thomas Schaeffer ex­plained, 'I wasn't terribly surprised. Perhaps it was a little premature, but I figured the decision would come sooner or later.' 
Assistant Law School Dean, Leslie Foschio, also felt the decision was somewhat early. 
'I feel itwassomewhat premature to pardon a man who has not committed a crime and hasn't admitted to one.' 
Paul C. Bartholomew , professor emeritus of government and mternational relations, said that, 'On the whole, it's good that Ford made his decision. It's time we got Watergate behind us and forge ahead to work on the country's real problems.' 
Several legal aspects of the pardon were also brought up. One topic that was covered was the question of how far Nixon's pardon extends. 
Dean Foschio said the pardon 'applies to federal charges, but not to any state action brought against him.' Foschio went on to say the pardon will clear away a lot of potential self-incrimination charges that might have been held against Nixon. 
However, Professor of Law, Charles Rice thought Nixon 'could decline to testify on grounds of self­incrimination,' if he was called to be a witness at the trials of his subordinates. 
Speaking on the same subject, Dean Schaeffer said 'if Nixon was called as a witness, he would have to come in, no questions about it. 
The issue of granting pardons to presidential aides also drew varied opinions. 'I can't see how Nixon can be pardoned and John Dean be prosecuted.' said Lawrence J. Bradley, assistant Archivist and con­stitutional historian. 
'I don't necessarily think that Dean should be left off 
the hook for two wrongs don't make a right. However, 
Ford is inconsistent if he does not pardon Nixon's 
former aides,' Bradley said. 

Professor Kirby thought the aides were responsible for their actions. 
'I don't think the prosecution proceedings against Dean, Erlichman, etc. should terminate, but Nixon's acknowledgement of guilt and his pardon by Ford may make it impossible to find an unbiased jury. This would, of course, let the aides off the hook.' 
Stanley Hauerwas, associate professor of theology, thought that apardon for Nixon's aides might s·et up an 'Adolph Eichmann situation, where a blind devotion to follow orders held priority over the judgement of the individual.' 
(continued on page 5) 

<Dean Schaeffer expected the decision) by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 
Fr. Hesburgh vetoed the liberali:~ed revision of the sexuality rule last summer in a letter to the SLC, it was announced yesterday at the Commission's first meeting of the year. Hesburgh may meet with the SLC next week to discuss this and other matters. 
Hesburgh's letter was not available for direct quotation but according to Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for student affairs, Hesburgh wrote that he thought both the present and proposed rules were unclear and might confuse the students. Paczesny explained to the SLC members <who will receive copies of the letter) that it "mandates us to act on the matter again." 
The letter was not released, Paczesny said, because "it is a private communication between the President and the SLC and we do not have the right to release it without his permission." He also said that it might be taken out of context if it were released now and thus "put Hesburgh in a bad light". 
The SLC agreed to request Hesburgh to speak at the SLC's meeting Monday, Sept. 16 on his view of the SLC's task this year in general and the veto in particular. "It would get us nowhere just to have Hesburgh talk about this one point," Dr. Robert Ackerman said. "But Hesburgh usually speaks to 
us at the beginning of the year 
anyway on student life in general." 
Tt1e current rule was heavily criticized for vagueness last year and was the regulation applied in both the Dillon Hall case and the suspension of the six football players over last summer. It reads in part: "Because a genuine and complete expression of love through sex requires a com­mitment to a total living and sharing together in marriage, the University believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage." A major criticism of the rule was that it does not precisely prohibit anything, ac­cording to its opponents. 
To answer the objections the SLC passed a compromise revision at its last meeting of last year. The proposal stated that those who have sex outside of marriage "can expect to be challenged and may be asked to leave the on-campus community." This was a lesser penalty than the suspension decreed under the current rules and obviously does not extend to those students already living off campus. The revision was a compromise between ad­ministration desires for a strong prohibition backed by suspension and expulsion and student proposals for eliminating the rule completely. The compromise passed narrowly by an eleven to nine vote and was sent to Hesburgh over the summer. 

There was no discussion during the meeting about possible responses to the veto or possible new versions of the rule. Members preferred to wait until housekeeping matters were out of the way and they could discuss the problem with Hesburgh in person. 
Neither did the Commission take up the alcohol situation since the rest of the meeting was taken up by elections of officers and organization of committees. Consideration of Dean of Students John Macheca's alcohol directive was postponed until the Sept. 23 meeting. "We still want this directive reconsidered at our first regular working meeting," Student Body President Pat McLaughlin said after the meeting, "but there are a lot of organizational details to complete an extra meeting to finish up and listen to Hesburgh. 
Frank Flannigan, student body vice-president was elected SLC chairman for the year. Six can­didates were nominated, three declined, leaving Dr. Julian Pleasants, professor of microbiology, Dr. Thomas Werge of the English department, and Flannigan. Flannigan won on a secret ballot. As chairman he will lead the meeting and retain his regular vote. Dr. Robert Acker­man, director of staff development in student affairs, was re-erlected vice-chairman. 
Elected to the steering com­mittee of the SLC were representives from each of the three constituencies. Brian Hegarty will represent the students, Finance Professor Paul Conway the faculty, and Fr. David Schlaver the administration. 
-~ --­
the observer Tuesday, September 10, 1974 

--------------.........,..Into Nixon's actions 
warld 

briefs 
LONDON (UPI) -Scientists at the National Physical Laboratory 
have issued a correction on how fast light travels. 
With new measurements they say the figure is 299,792,459 meters a second--one meter a second faster than the current in­ternationally accepted figure. 
The scientists said they based their calculations on the wave length and frequency of light from a laser. 
WILKES-BARRE, pa. (UPI) -Mike Aprile, a 370-pound taxicab driver from Tampa, Fla., holds the world's spaghetti~ating record but he's hungry for another crown--the world's ravioli~ating title. 
Aprile, 24, consumed 6.9 pounds of spaghetti at the Pocono Downs Race Track Monday to top 25 rivals in "the World Spaghetti-Eating Championship." 
The total surpassed his previous mark of 6.6 pounds set in December, 1973, in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
SALTA, Argentina (UPI)-The bus carrying members of Our Lady of Perpetual Help Society home from a pilgrimage sped along a dirt road through the mountains of northern Argentina at 9,000 feet above sea level. 
As the vehicle reached a curve known as "Bishop's Slope," the brakes failed and the bus plunged over the side of a canyon, falling 700 feet to the bottom. 
Police said 32 persons were killed in the accident Sunday night, but six managed to survive the tremendous plunge. 

an campus taday 
8:00 
pm meeting charismatic prayer meeting holy cross hall cafeteria free 

8:00 
and 10:00 pm movie "the stranger" (orson welles) cinema '75 engr. aud. $1.00 pat4ons free 




220 W. Marion -Elkhart Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 

Inquiryreopeningproposed 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -An­gered by the pardon of former President Richard M. Nixon, a few House Judiciary Committee members Monday considered the idea of reviving their impeachment investigatiop of Nixon -either by calling him as a witness or renewing the subpoenas which he refused to honor. 
The idea of reopening the inquiry and calling Nixon as a witness was proposed by Rep. Jerome Waldie, D-Calif., who said the pardon leaves the nation with "no forum except
the Congress of the United States in which the entire record of Nixon can now be exposed. 
Rep. Peter W. Rodino Jr., D­N.J., chairman of the 38­member panel which voted to impeach Nixon before he resigned from office last month, said he had no intention of reopening the inquiry. But Rodino, like most of the other 

viewed, deplored the pardon granted Sunday by President Ford. 
Waldie indicated he "might very well" take his proposal to the full House if Rodino continued to oppose it. 
"It is my view," he said, "that the Congress must accept this responsibility to completing the record of Richard Nixon's abuse of the presidency. The Judiciary Committee should now re-open its impeachment inquiry and call as a witness Richard M. Nixon." 
Rep. Don Edwards, D-Calif., said the committee "should at least consider moving ahead on 
our subpoenas which are still 
outstanding" and make the 
relevant portions public. Nixon 
· I f d I
preVIOUS Y re use to comp Y 
with committee subpoenas for 
Watergate-related materials. 
Agreeing with Edwards, Mez­
vinsky added that the commit­
tee also should determine 
•c_o_m_m__i_tt_e_e___m__em__b_e_r_s___in_t_e_r_-..w_h_e_t_h_e_r___s_pe_c_i_a_I__P__ro_s_e_c__ut:o~r~==M==~=-==================~ 

1421 S. Walnut Street (219) 233-9441 South Bend, Indiana 46627 
SENIOR HOCKEY AT THE "ICE BOX" Pro Shop -Skate Sharpening -2 Rinks -Public Skating -Figure Skating -Lessons -Snacks ­Arcade -Skate Rental -Free Parking 
SENIOR HOCKEY-"CHECK" AND "NO CHECK" DIVISIONS­Play in either or both divisions-16 men per team -Locker rooms with showers available-16 game season with holiday tourney and playoffs-Jerseys and referees furnished-$3.50 per game -Game times 9:15pm and 10:45 pm. SIGN UP NOW for league starting October 18th. 
For more information on this and our other programs call (219) 233-9441 
•• •••••••••••••••••••••••• SEN lOR HOCKEY•••••••••••••••••••••••••• I. 
APPLICATION  --­ ---SEND MORE INFORMATION  
Fri. "CHECK"---­ ---AGE  
Sun. "NO CHECK"--­ POSITION  

Name-------------------------­Address,------------------------------­
Leon Jaworski played in President Ford's decision to pardon Nixon and write legisla­tion to prevent future pardons from being handed down before any indictment. 
Rep. Robert W. Kastenmeier, 0-Wis., said he favored some type of further inquiry "with respect to learning the truth and making an evaluation on Nixon's guilt." 
Rep. Tom Railsback of Illinois, one of the original six Republicans who favored im­peachment, warned that the committee might prejudice the Watergate cover-up trial if it summoned Nixon as a witness. 
The Observer is publiShed dally duringthecollegeseml!llterexc:ept vacations by the stuaents of the 
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for se per semester (Sl4 per year! from The 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame,
Indiana 46556. second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
4 

:::::;:;:~:;:;:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::;:::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;;;;;;:;;::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.:-:·:·::::::::::.;.;.;.; ••••••• .•:.~.;.;.;.·.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.:.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·•·=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·.······:·: 

;*::::::;:;:;:::;:::::=:::::::::J:::::::::::::::::::~=~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~~=~=~:;:~=~~:!:::~:~:::::;:!:;:;:!:!:!:::::~:=:=:=:=:=:~:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:!:!:::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
~----------------~ 
3

Tuesday, September 10, 1974 the observer 




Ford recieves criticism andpraise 
by Bill Gonzenbach Staff Reporter 
Three Indiana Politicians ex­
pressed contrasting views of 
Sunday's pardoning of Richard Nixonby President Gerald Ford. 
'~In giving Richard Nixon a 
blanket advance pardon, President 
Ford has broken his word to 
Congress and the American people 
and has set a double standard of 
justice in this country," said John 
Brademas, Democratic Indiana 
Congressman. 
Brademas pointed out the 
contradiction between President 
Ford's promises and actions: 
"Less than a year ago in the Vice­
Presidential Hearings, Mr. Ford 
told Congress he would not do what 
he had done and said "I do not 
think the public would would stand 
for it.' " 
"In his r•ecent August 28 news conference," Brademas continued, President Ford, while reserving his final right to executive clemency, promised to respect Special Prosecutor Jaworski's obligation to prosecute 'any and all individuals.' Mr. Ford added 'That until any legal ·process has been undertaken, I think it is unwise and untimely for me to make any committment.' " 
"No legal process has been undertaken' and Mr. Ford has thus broken his word to the American people" said the Congressman. 
Brademas fuether emphasized the developing double standard: "Mr. Nixon has made no con­cession of guilt for the grave crimes of which he has been ac­cused. By pardoning him, Mr. Ford has in effect declared that there is one system of justice for the many, but a different and lower standard for ex­presidents." 
Richard Luger Mayor of In­dianapolis and Republican Senatorial cnadidate opposing Democrat Birch Bayh, expressed support for President Ford's ac­tion: "President Ford's decision to pardon Richard Nixon at this time is an act of compassion taken with full knowledge of legal questions both raised and settled by the par.don." 
"'In my judgment President Ford appreciates the serious problem which our nation must meet now. We have witnessed the Congress so preoccupied with Watergate and President Nixon that inflation and energy problems were shoved to the background," said Luger. 
Luger added that Ford's strong leadership "will strengthen the confidence of Americans in a future which is brighter for our country.'' 
Birch Bayh, Democratic Indiana Senator revealed his views of the 

Avoids disbarment 
Nixon resigns from Bar 

SACRAMI~NTO, Calif. (UPI) -Former President Richard 
M. Nixon has decided to resign from the California State Bar Association, his attorney dis­closed Monday. 
The resignation would termi­nate the bar's investigation into criminal acts by Nixon which would have led to formal disciplinary proceedings an~ possible disbarment, Bar Presi­dent Seth M. Hufstedler said. 
A letter explaining Nixon's planned resignation was sub­mitted to Hufstedler by Nixon attorney Dean S. Butl~r. It explained that Nixon w1ll be "engaged in matters other than law" and is preparing a formal letter of resignation to be submitted to the bar promptly. 
The announcement came a few hours after Attorney General Evelle J. Younger said Nixon still could face disbar­ment for Watergate related crimes in California in spite of his pardon from President Gerald Ford. 
Volunteers are 
needed for the 
blood drive 
Volunteer blood donors for the school year are now being recruited in the dining halls and dorms on both campuses this week. 
"This is the one recruitment drive for donors this year," stated ND-SMC Blood Council Chairman Robin Heisler. She thus urged all interested to :sign up as donors. 
The Blood Council is working under a new program this year, which eliminates the need for two major on-campus blood drives during the semester, that the Council has previously sponsored. Instead, each hall will send 20-25 volunteer donors to the Central Blood Bank downtown on one Tuesday or Thursday each semester. 
Anyone interested in donat~ng blood, providing transportatiOn between the campus and blood bank, or recruiting in the halls, should contac:t AI Callahan <1642), ~r Colleen O'Rourke (5261). 
In Los Angeles, Younger's Democratic opponent, William Norris said in a news confer~nce he was calling upon Younger to impanel a special grand jury to investigate alleged state crimes committed by Nixon. Norris read off a string of offenses he said could be considered, including bur­glary, conspiracy, extortion, illegal wire tapping and con­spiracy to obstruct justice. 
The bar has been investigat­ing Nixon's participation in the Watergate scandal for more than a year and disciplinary proceedings had been expected to begin in the near future. 
Asked if the resignation would halt the investigation and disbarment proceedings, Hufstedler replied, "Resigna­tion accomplishes that very satisfactorily." 
The resignation ultimately 
must' be accepted by the state 
Supreme Court upon recom­
mendation by the bar, Hufste­
dler said. 
The message that Nixon 
planned to resign came to 
Butler through Nixon aide Ron Ziegler.
Meanwhile, Njxon, who conceded "mistakes and misjudgements" regarding the Watergate affair, relaxed. Mon­day in Palm Desert, Calif., at the plush desert estate of an old friend and political contributor. Piclkup 2nd pgh.: Nixon, accom­panied pardoning in a press release yesterday: 

"Although I have had some real differences with President Nixon on various policy issues, I had a great deal of sympathy for what he 
and his family were going through over the past few weeks and I had no desire to see the for­mer President of the United States sent to jail or to get that last pound of flesh or that last drop of blood." 
"It seemed to me that what we should try to do would be to see that we never have another Watergate and to see that future generations of politicians and future generations of citizens learn the lessons of Watergate and that should be that nobody, president, senator, nobody, was above the law, that everybody had to play by the same set of rules,'' Bayh stated. 
Bayh concluded, "Now I'm concerned that with this pardon we have the rather obvious situation where some people have gone to jail for following the orders of a President who has been pardoned before the evidence has been presented and I'm concerned that when our children look at this particular period of history theyare going to learn a lesson which I think is a bad lesson; mainly that we have one standard of justice for former presidents and another standard of justice of every other citizen of this country." 
Virginia Blac, Republican candidate for Congress for St. Joseph County, declined to com­ment on he ~ixon pardon. 

Ca II 288-8488



fRM:ifPiwf
-----------
for time and directions MISHAWAJ(A AVENUE AT 30TH .. 
'8 ETTER THAN 'M * A * s * HI 
·Roger E be rt, S u n ·Tim e s 
GEORGE SEGAL &ELLIOT GOULD 
•.•being the story of two bel-on-anything guys 

CLUBS ,and ORGANIZATIONS 
wanting to be considered in this year's Student Government Budget must pick 
up a budget form in the Student Government Offices starting at noon today. The form must be completed 
and returned by THIS Friday. 
_j 



THE OBSERVER 
A"-1 INDEPENDENT STUOFNT NEWSPAPER 

Looking into the 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Ann McCarry Marlene Zloza 

eyes ol young men 
Editorial Editor Managing Editor 

Bob logas Terry Keeney Bob McManus Business Manc:ger News Editor Advertising Manager 
·september 10, 197,__,4'------------------­

fr. bill toohey 

Editor's note: This column by Father William Toohey, C.S.C., the director of





Why Register? 
Notre Dame's Campus Ministry, was submitted prior to President Ford's announcement of Richard Nixon's pardon. We apologize for 
Today a drive will begin to register out of state Notre Dame students so that they may vote in the Indiana state elections in November. It is a drive that has been initiated by students for their fellow students. It is a drive which desperately needs the support of all students. 
During the next three days, students deputized as voter registrars will seek to enlist as many students as possible within 
state qualifications, tovotein November for this district's representative. If managed successfully, this formation of 
a student bloc vote could eventually, though not immediately, add new dimensions to our entitled rights in the state where nine months out of the year our lives are spent. 
We have an opportunity for movement. By registering to vote in Indiana, and as part of a student coalition, an option is established for acton rather than the usual reaction. Through our 'en masse' presence alone, a student voting bloc could grasp a foothold in the Indiana Assembly and begin a power base to lobby for changes in recent alcohol rulings, by the Indiana judiciary. 
Realistically, the voter registration is going to involve a basic decision on the part of each student over the age of 18 enrolled here. That is, whether he or she, not being a resident of Indiana, is willing to sacrifice their voting privilege in their home state in order to make full use of it here and now. Unless this basic criteria can be met by a majority of enlightened students, then each of our rights as students, whether concerning alcohol liability laws or mass demonstration laws, will be further set back. 
It remains for each student to make this decision on whether his vote will be heard. Certainly, the citizens of those 
states, which will not allow a second registration by students receiving any type of state endowed financial aid, can not be expected to register and jeopardize their assistance. 
But for the remaining students, a lawful and democratic choice exists. On the one hand, you may decide that your vote would be better served in your home state despite your nine month abscence; or, you may decide that your immediate interests, as a student in Indiana at Notre Dame, can be better served now--as a student. 
The beginning of change, especially in regards to the alcohol rulings, depends on our embrace of the voting privilege in Indiana. 
There are no guarantees that even with the successful formation of a student bloc coalition a change can be affected. Firm guidance by student government leadership in situations involving our rights as students would be our only assurance. And as the organization of this drive to date has proven, that leadership is available. 
At the very least, the voter registration drive can yield a confirmed com­mittment by the students at this university about their concern for existence within the state of Indiana. 
Your decision to register will be a 
positive beginning. 
Tom Drape 

doonesbury garry frudeau 

the observer 
Night Editor: Tom O'Neil Asst. Night Editor: Danny Sanchez Layout: Where are you? Copy Editor: Bob Quackenbush Day Editor: Tom Russo Editorials: Ann McCarry Sports: Bill Brink, Greg Corgan Typists: Barb Norcross, Barb Haug, 
TomModglin, Jim Landis, Rick Huber Compugraphic: Nobody, Phil! Picture Screener: AI D'Antonio Night Controller: Howard Halle Comment: To T.U. "Don't cuss, call us." 
The Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief: Tom Drape 
Editorial Editor: Ann McCarry 
Managing Editor: Marlene Zloza 
Sports Editor: Greg Corgan 
News Editor: Terry Keeney 
Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy 
Special Projects: AI Rutherford 
St. Mary's Editor: Mary Janca 
Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink 
Features Editor: J.R. Baker 
Contributing Editors: Fred Graver, Jim Eder, Pattie Cooney 
Photo Editor: Zenon Bidzinski 
the delay and hope the column will still be relevant to its readers. 
O~e d~y a young man fleeing the Czarist police arrived in a Jewish village and was sheltered by the inhabitants. They hid him away. The next day the Army arrived and began searching. They s~id: "We know that .the boy is here. If you do not give him up, we will burn down the village." The inhabitants were very worried a~d asked the advise of the rabbi, who was a holy old man of great wisdom. The rabbi sat up all night looking through the Bible for the answer to this problem, and as dawn broke he thought that he had found the answer. He went back to the people and said: "Here is your answer. You may hand the young man over for it is written 'It is expedient that one man should die rather than that a whol~ people should perish.'" 
So they handed the boy over to the soldiers and he was shot. That 
night, an angel appeared to the rabbi and said: "0 foolish rabbi, 
what have you done?" The rabbi said: "But I searched in the book 
and I found ananswerthere." The angel replied: "0 foolish rabbi, 
you looked in the book but you never looked into the eyes of the 
young man." 

You can't hear that story without being reminded of that other 
story; the story of the father who is prodigal in his love. He never 
looked in the book; he looked only into the eyes of the young man, 
his son, when he returned. It was the father's initiative that 
dominated the encounter; he would not hear his son's s confession­
the return was sufficient. It was a cause for new clothing, a ring on 
his finger, and a celebration. The message in this is that God never 
makes turns; he is always open, always turned to us, always turned 
to us, always looking for our turn and response. 
Ask yourself a question: "Do I think that when I'm better the 
Father will love me more? Or when I sin that he loves me less?" 
You answer that question and you discover something about how ell 
you know your God. Remember in the old days we learned in our 
catechisms that God was "immutable." That means he's not 
turned off, he's never turned away, never chang~s in his love for us, 
never needs to be pacified or appeased. Now, this is very non­
normal; very unlike the way we deal with each other. That's why 
he's different. 

We have a cnuple of examples today of man's failure to look into the eyes of others. Capital punishment is a tragic instance. Those who thirst for its adoption act according to the book, failing to look into the eyes of young men; and their book says, "An eye for an eye." 
Amnesty is another timely example. It is apparentthat President Ford (to his credit) wants to do something about these thousands of young men, imprisoned or exiled from thier country and loved ones. But he is under extreme pressure to set very stringent conditions for their return or release from prison or from the stigma of a less-than-honorable discharge. This is a great way to look into the eyes of young men, especially those who refused to silently go along with a war they knew was a shamelful disgrace to every good thing that the United States ever stood for, and who, some day, will go down in history as the unlikely heroes of a sasd time in American life and when there were few other heroes. 
It is hard to imagine what goes through the minds of these young men. They think perhaps of Spiro Agnew who once said he would "swap the whole damn zoo" of "those uncivil disobedient among our youth" for a single platoon of Vietnam soldiers. Now it is Agnew who has been found to be a rank criminal -and Agnew who has been granted amnesty. 
Or perhaps these young men think of Richard Nixon who said that "they are men who made a choice to be criminals and they must pay a penalty for that choice." They must think quite a bit obout Nixon right now as he desperately hopes he himself will not have to pay the price of a crimincll penalty for his actions. 
But there is more We hear the story about the rabbi and think of all those others who look in the book rather than into the eyes of young men; and we may be tempted to rise up in indignation and say: "That's right; they blew it; they deserve our wrath and condemnation." But then, we ourselves can become guilty of failing to look into their eyes. My big temptation (and maybe yours, too) is to become like the elder son in the story about the prodigal. I am liable to be shocked to learn that the Father also forgives them-the the Agnews, the Nixons, the Lt. Calleys. It's at a time like that that I discover that perhaps Ifind it just as hard tolook into the eyes of those who turn me off; it's then I realize I haven't seen them as brothers and sisters because I've got a beam in my own eye. It's then I know how hard it is to be a reconciler, like the father, and look into the eyes of all with love and forgiveness. 
~ ~~--~-~ 

Tuesday, September 10, 1974 
the observer 
5 

j j
Facultyresponds to Nixon pardon 
(continued from Palle I l 
Stanley Hauerwas, associate professor of theology, thought that apardon for Nixon's aides might set up an 'Adolph Eichmann situation, where a blind devotion to follow orders held priority over the judgement of the individual.' 
Professor Rice added that he would 'be more comfortable if President Ford would take into consideration the cases of lesser offenders.' 
Ford's standing with Congress was also brough1t into question. 'I'd be a little more cautious to say that it is the end of the honeymoon ' mentioned Dean Shaeffer. ll went on to say 'It might take an edge from the Republicans in the upcoming elections, but that's it. This really won't hurt.' 
Dean Foschio thought that Ford's timing 'was excellent--its best to announce a pardon now when his popularity is very high. He can live with the reaction and it won't hurt him too much." 
However, Lawrence Bradley thought Ford has damaged his credibility. 'Ford originally said he would Jet the Judicial process run its course, then he suddenly switched his mind. It raises the question of whether there might have been a deal with Nixon.' 
Bradley said the pardon would hurt the Republican's chances and help the Democrat's in the up­coming November elections. 
Professor Bartholomew said that the pardon 'marked the end of the honeymoon, but would not hurt Ford on any matters.' 
In his letter to Ford, Professor Kerby tole the President that his 'decision has not only placed Mr. Nixon beyond the law, but has been justified in a fashion which implies that you believe yourself to enjoy the same special immunity. Be warned, Sir, that you do not.' 
$9 mill.ion rich !t 


Knievel heals his wounds 
TWIN FALLS, Idaho <UPI) -Evel Knievel, battered and bruised but $'~ million richer after his rocket ride ended on the rocks at the bottom of the Snake River Gorge, said Monday he's thinking about another try. 
The stunt grossed about $21 million, with 900,000 to a million closed-circuit television viewers in North America. Knievel's 60 per cent share of the profits will run about $9 million, said 
Robert Arum, president of ToD keen about a repeat performan­Rank, Inc., one of the two ce. promotoers. "By now, I think most everyone recognizes that Eve! 
"I don't know," Knievel said Knievel's so-called SkycycleMonday when asked if he would jump brought little benefit to make another try to "jump" Idaho and instead many head­
the quarter-mile wide canyon aches and, indeed, some following Sunday's awesome hardships," said Gov. Cecil blastoff and cliff-scraping para­Andrus. Knievel paid the state chute drop to the rocks $5,000 for the right to land on alongside the river. state acreage if he had 
overshot federal land across the Idaho state officials were not canyon from the launch site. 
Secur~ity releases student property 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 

Security and Maintenance confiscated property stored in the halls over the summer and sent it to the Student Union's Maycrest storage site. ·Bill McLain. student ombudsman, announced yesterday that those students who wish to claim property that was confiscated may come to Stepan Center today between 4:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m.
A directive from Dean of Students John Macheca late last 
ter Horst claim; he was used 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -J.F. terHorst quit as President Ford's press secretary because Ford's advist:~rs used him to deceive reporters about the impending Nixon pardon and because he opposed the pardon itself, sources said Monday. 
The Detroit News, meanwile, confirmed that terHorst had rejoined its Washington staff. 
TerHorst left the News, where he was Washington bureau chief, a month ago to work for Ford. He was the first staff member hired by the new President. 
An official for the newspaper said terHorst had been rehired in the new position of "national columnist" in Washington and would write three columns a week for the paper. 
"He went back on the payroll today," said AI Blanchard, national editor of the News. 
The News has not yet named a new Washington bureau chief, but Blanchard said terHorst would not reassume that title. He said terHorst had asked for several days in which to tie up his White House duties before 
returning  to  the paper.  
White  House  aides  said  
Monday  that  terHorst  left  

Ford's staff because he felt the President's advisers caused him to lie to reporters about the impending pardon for Nixon as well as bec!ause he opposed the granting of the pardon. 
year prohibited storage of student property in the halls over the summer. Due to this directive, 
McLain said, Security was ordered to search the halls for student property left behind and make a list of everything found. "They checked the various food sales rooms and other rather private areas," explained McLain. 
Security's list was sent to Maintenance which removed the property to the Student Union 
storage area where it was "stacked together in one corner with no attempt to organize it by owner or by hall," McLain said. 
"rS_o_w_e...d•o-no_t_k_n_o_w_w_h_o_it-be•l•o-ng_s 
to." 

Only after the property had been moved was Student Union Services Commissioner Rick Golden in­formed of the confiscation. After discussing the problem with other SU members, Golden decided to wait until all other stored property was returned before bringing out the confiscated material. 
"Anyone who may have had property confiscated should go to Stepan tomorrow afternoon bet­
ween ~l:OO and 5:00 to identify and claim their studd," McLain said. He added that no decision had yet 
Sunshine Promotic)ns Presents 


Van MorJrison 
and The Caledonia Express 

and Special Guest 
Dave Log'gins 
Sunday Sept. 15-7:30P.M. 
Athletic and 
Convocation Center


NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices: 

Tickets On Sale: 
Bleachers •••••••••••$4..00 Lower Are• •..•..• _. ~U 
Gate 10 Ticket Office, Student Loge ••••••••••••••• S"'At 
Union Ticket Office (3rd Floor PlatforM .•••••• --.• _SitO 
Lafortune), Robertson's, St. Joe 
Bank & Branches, First Bank Downtown, Elkhart Truth. 
Floor Seats ••••• _---. SS.OO 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Van Morrison. Send to Van Morrison Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed 'stamped envelope. 
The question of whether Nlxon deserved punishment for his ac­tions also brought forth conflicting reports. Professor Bartholomew gave his opinion by explaining the goals of trial ad punishment. 
'The first goal is to deter future acts of criminality: Nixon cer­tainly hasbeen punished enough. The second goal is rehabilitation and I don't think any more trial and punishment will help bring any further rehabilitation.' 
Professor Hauerwas objected to the pardon because 'Nixon betrayed the oath of office and he should have been impeached and or indicted.' 
Foschio and Kerby shared a concern over one particular point. At this time, Nixon can profit from the publication of evidence against him because the former president holds the rights to this evidence. Both men feel this occurence is 

j
questionable. 
1
Kerby thought that Nixon's 
I
pardon brought up the topic of 
l
amnesty for Vietnam Veterans. 
j
In comparing the two, Kerby 
j
said 'Let some draftee who skipped 
I
to Canada rather than fight in Vietnam enjoy his veteran's I 
j
benefits, a clean slate, the op­portunity to make a living with an l honorable discharge in hand, and I the restoration of his full civil l rights without penalty, and I perhaps the concept of 'fairness' I will again begin to mean I something in the American l political vocabulary. l 
When asked if this pardon could l serve as a precedent, Bradley I said: 'a precedent could be set for I a president who wiehes to escape l prosecution by resigning.' l Rice commented 'the whole l Watergate process is so unusual, it I probably won't happen again.' I I I 
l I I I I 
l 
l 
j I 
l ~ 
'I DIDN'T KNOW IT W.U LOADIDI' 
51\t\C SOCIAL COIVUVUSSION 
At4ovies For Fall 

EASY Rl 
DE R 
been made on whether or not to au•c•t-io_n,_or_r_a_n_y_th_I_·n·g•n•o•t•c•l•a•im-ed
.....tWUTTE R F L I ES ARE FREE 

THE OTHER 
At4ovies For Spring 
DR. ZHIVAGO 
2001 


HARRAD EXPERIMENT 
6 At4ovies For $5.00 ta>r Admission $1.25 per A'Dvie 
(SAVE $2.50 bt buying in Advance) 
ON SALE AT THE NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HALLS TUES, WED, &THURS Time 


the observer Tuesday, September 10, 1974 


Campus briefs••• 
Morrisey in commercial 
by Mary l'ran Hayes Staff Reporter 
Will Morrisey, a Notre Dame student manager, made his debut as an actor during the Georgia Tech football game as a result of being selected by the J. Walter Thompson Advertising of Chicago to do a new commercial for Seven Up. 
The local distributers of the Un­Cola have a new bottle displaying a leprechaun on the front and the football 3Cores of last year's l<~ighting Irish on the back. Because: NCAA rules forbid college football players from making commercials, J. Walter Thompson auditioned the junior and senior student football managers and Observer Sport's Editor Greg 

Corgan for their 'Un-Person.'. Institutions magazine to receive 
Morrisey said he 'just went crazy' upon learning that he had been selected."I was under medication for an ear infection the day of the audition, so I was really surpri.:>ed 1 got it,' he explained. 
Two hours were needed to film the 30-second commercial, which has· Morrisey in his manager's 


Arts and Letters council accepting applications 
by Chris Bock 
Starr Reporter 
The Arts and Lettters Student Advisory Council is currently accepting applications from students interested in joining the Arts and Letters College or Academic Councils. 
Interested students should write a one page paper stating their reasons and qualifications for joining the councils. Experience is not neccessary, but an un­derstanding and expression of the possibilities of a liberal arts education is important. 
Applications should be turned into the office of the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters by 4:30 
p.m. Friday. The first series of interviews will be held by mem­bers of the Arts and Letters Council next Sunday. Final selection of members will be made next week. 

The Arts and Letters Council will appOint four students to work with the college deans, department chairman, and other faculty members in dealing with academic affairs. 
The Academic Council is make up of faculty and administration representing the entire university. One student from each coHege will be selected to serve on this council dealing with social and academic proposals. 
Council members wilJ meet periodically to discuss and revise old programs and to adopt new policies. 
This fall, the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council wilJ consider proposals on pass-fail and collegiate sequence programs. The pass-fail proposal suggests a four point revision of current pass­fail options. The 1-2-1 division of the Bach~lor of Arts program, or jacket sitting between two rows holding a bottle of Seven-Up while recounting the excitement of managing last year's National Champions. 
The filming took place at Telemation Productions in Glenview, Illinois. "It was in­teresting watching the editing of the commercial, especially since the first scene needed 15 takes," said Morrisey."1 had a lot of fun making the commercial and would not mind doing another,"the junior from Holy Cross Hall commented. Morrisey , however, is under contract for at least 13 weeks with Seven-Up or until the company signs his release. 
Dining hall honored 

The newly renovated South Dining Hall at the University of Notre Dame has been selected by 
one of 10 merit awards presented annually for excellence in the science of kitchen design. The facility will be featured in a future issue of the magazine. 
Designed by Ellerbe Ar­chitects Engineei'S Planners of Bloomington Minn., the 1973 rennovation included relocation of 
collegiate sequence would serve as an alternative to a particular department major. 

Mike Murphy, President of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council, stated, "The Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council serves as a forum, concerned with the development and presentation of proposals important to the needs of students within the College of Arts and Letters. We are open to suggestions by people who would like to see changes and have ideas they feel need to be developed. Our function is to contribute to the academic excellence of the College of Arts and Letters." 

IND NA LAWS 
NOW is the time to BEGIN. 

REGISTER TO VOTE 
TUESDAY,~DNESDAY,THURSDAY 
SEPT. 10I 11 I 12 9 A.M.-5P.M. Lafortune Lobby 5 P.M.-6:30 P.M. 
outside the Dining Halls 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
I q J "! "., • '• ''" •. 

kitchen and food storage equip­ment, the installation of a "scramble area" to eliminate lines in the food selection area, an theair conditioning of the building. 
Merit award winners are selected on the basis of economic soundness, use of labor-saving devices, techniques and products, ingenuity in meeting special problems, use of space, equipment fabrication and sanitation, and psychological effect on patrons. 


Erratum 

The article in last Thursday's Observer about the Pre-Law Society incorrectly listed the deadline for applictions for the October Law School Admission Test. The correct deadline for all October LSAT applications is September 12. 
~) 

-~. 



Tom McMahon AI Razzana Dennis Chiddister
··~ 

General Agent 
ent Agent 
ear after vear. semester 
after semester, the College Master" from Fidelit\' Union Ijfc has hcen ttie most acceptl'<l. most popular plan on 
Jim Tucker 

campuses all over America. 
Agent 

Find out why. 


Call the Fidelity Union 

( :ollegeM aster·· Field Associate m your area: 
Dave Witt 1005 E. LaSalle Agent South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 



1970 Ford Van 
5 good tires, clean. 
Asking $900 But Wll Talk. 
CALL 1715 or 7471. 
BE CH 
D 
7

,Tuesday, ~p~e~ber 10,-1974 the observer 




Arthzlr Pears discusses goal:; and priorities 
by lF'red Herbst Sta:ff Reporter 

"To protectthelife andpropertyof the students and of the University" was the goal expressed by Notre Dame Directorof Security, Arthur Pears, in an Observer interview yesterday during which Pears discussed alcohol, automobiles and Notre Dame security. 
In discussing the role of Security 
in enforcing the University's b~m on alcohool, Pears stressed that he had "received no official guidelines." 
Yet the Director ofSecuritystated that any vehicle approaching a gate carrying alcohol, without writtenpermissionfromthe Dean of Students, would be turned away. 
Explaining the procedure to be taken if a student on campus is found with alcohol, Pears said that the alcohol would be confiscated and turned in to the Dean of Students, along with the name of the student. 
When asked about students found to be possessing alcohol and could show p•roof of age, Pears noted that sec::urity would take no action other than to notify the Dean of Students as to the identity of the student. 
In any of th·ese cases that would warrant discipline, the degree of discipline would be up to the Dean of Students and could range from of a fine to dismissal from school. 
The Director of Security also discussed automobiles, what he considers to bE! the largest problem confronting the Security Depart­ment: 
Noting that there are ap­proximately four thousand automobiles on campus, Pears stated that despite students patrolling the parking areas 
Qovud heckle.s 
Presided Ford 
PITTSBURGH (UPI) -A street crowd protesting the Nixon pardon booed President Ford Monday and heckled him with chants of "justice died, justice died." 
Ford just waved at the crowd of several hundred hecklers and a sprinkling of applauding wellwishers as he left the hotel where he had addressed a 
conference  on  urban  transporta­ 
tion.  
The  crowd  lined  the  street  

across from tlhe hotel entrance and the boos drowned out the applause when Ford strode out into his first demonstration of public sentiment against the pardon he announced Sunday.­
The crowd c:hanted "Justice died" and "Don't buy Ford. Don't buy Ford" as the President got into his automo­bile for the ride to the airport. 
Some of the protesters waved placards beariing such slogans as "Ford and Nixon are collaborators," "Now pardon the war resisters," and "ter­Horst in '76" -a reference to presidential press secretary J. 
F. terHorst who resigned Sunday in reaction to the pardon decision. 
When Ford entered the hotel earlier, a crowd of several thousand had greeted him warmly and there were only about 20 protesters visible. 
Sen. Hugh Scott, R-Pa., who t accompanied Ford on the visit, [ dismissed the hecklers as I "active militants who are always agitating against some­thing." 
vandalism Is virtually impossible to stop. 
Pears aiso noted that the an­swers to any questions concerning traffic regulations can be foundnin 
the soon-to-be-released Student Handbook. 
In characterizing the student body from a security ·standpoint, the Director ofSecurit1>aid that the Notre Dame student bodywasabout "average". Pears noted that security's "largest problem is 
from outside the university, not the 
students." 
Finally, Pears noted the security 
staff, which Pears characterized 
as "as good as any." has added six 
Notre Dame graduate students and 
three IUSB students for the 
coming year. 

(Pears claims he has "received no official guidelines" to enforce alcohol ruling) 

CLASSIFIED fillS 
rent. Sorin. 2 BR, LR, DR, S.

DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
porch, part. turn. Call Jim Cope. '74 Gen'l Features Corp. 
Licata at 289-7811 or 287­ACROSS 44 Diving duck 13 Novelist's need 
8282. 1 Wander 47 Little girl's niock-18 Sicilian sight 5 Room on a ship name 21 Cloud 
NOTICES

10 Gambol 48 Accountant 24 Over: Ger. 14-Major 50 Small particle 25 River on Brazil-Madame Fifi's Grand15 -citato (in the 52 Mythical hunter ian border 
Opening now twoworked quoted) : 54 Stamped deeply 26 Parking or locations. Spread (theLat. 59 Stack electric 
word)?
16 Satan's stock-in­60 Follow orders 27 Aristocracy trade strictly : Phrase 29 Gas and oil 
24 hr TV repair. Color TV's 
17 Kind of 61 Wlife 31 Senator 
$60 and up. 282-1955.
thermometer .62 Up-Stevenson 19 Leading man 63 Presently 32 Insects 
N.E. Day Care may fill20 Folds 64 Winter vehicle 34 Unfolded your needs. Students,21 Informal 65 Hevolving -gradually faculty, or otherwise. Call
headgear 66 Hatchery 36 Army staff officer 
233-2233, 233-3865.
22 Topnotcher DOWN 38 Plaintiff 23 Luau dances 1 Frilly-collar 41 Baker's station 25 Puckish one 2 Type of exam 45 Draws finely 
TALISMAN NOW 28 Supposing 3 Arthur of tennis 46 Had on 
AVAILABLE FOR DAN­30 Sack material 4 Traveler Polo 49 Former capital of 
CES, PARTIES, CON­33 Interpret 5 Rabbits Japan: Var. 
CERTS, AND PREGAME 35 Replace 6 Adages 51 La Scala's city 
PERFORMANCES. CALL 37 Diminutive 7 Has -52 Electrical units 
272-9895 FOR IN­suffix 8 Hibernians 53 Not a fantasy 
FORMATION. 38 Daub 9 Need for 3 Down 55 Detective Wolfe 10 Practices for a 56 Twining stem 
Bilbo's Birthday -Sept 22.
39 Fish dish 
Organizing now for suitable stage show 57 Biblical patriarch
40 With agitation 
celebration. Call 6246, 11 ­42 Lovers' quarrel alarm clock 60 One of the 
11 Ignores the 58 Impression 
midnight. 43 Lament 12 Soggy earth Lincolns Handmade Indian turquoise jewelry from the Southwest. Rings, bracelets, earrings and accessories, all very reasonably priced. Call 287· 0076 after 7 

InPI RG office hours: 1 . 3 pm daily. Student Gov offices, 2nd floor LaFor­tune. Call 7668, 6413. 
Found at SMC Wed night: cut-off jeans with pink embroidery on left rear pocket with purple and white macrame belt. Call Tom, 8785. 
THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE 12:15 · 5:00 MWF AND 11:00-1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TT. THE TICKET OFFICE IS LOCATED ON THE SOUTH END OF THE SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE (ABOVE THE HUDDLE). VAN MORRISON AND SHA NA NA TICKETS 'NOW AVAILABLE. 
FOR SALE Reward for return of green 
spiral notebook and Ashal Pentax SPO 11. Computer Data Processing Konica. Autoreflex T with book "accidentally" taken Vivitar Zoom 85 -205 mm. from South Dining Hall Sept Call George, 277-0021. 5. Please give back . no 
questions as~ed. 235 Walsh, 
8093. '73 175 Honda. Excellent condition. $500. Terry. See Lost: one make-up bag. .at 818 Blaine. Gray paisley canvas with 
red leather binding. Initials "68 Plymouth Fury Ill, N.M.S. Reward $20. Call 58,000 miles, new tires since 6294. .June, good cond., $595. !Bed, Queen-size, $75. Lost: notebooks and slide­Coffee table $15, stroller $5, rule CBritish Thornton> car seat $12, all items like from South Dining Hall. new. Call 272-9193. Call Seshadri, 6320, 7469. 
Army ROTC uniform and Large Reward for the E!QUipment -great shape. return or information Reasonable price. Call 289-concerning the location of 8029. my bicycle. Red 10-speed 
Fuji. Leather seat, Suntour 1969 Olds 442 convt (blue). derailleur. Taken from 2nd $1100. Contact 283-6162 or floor Grace Tues night or 272-5-498 (after 4 pm). early Wed morning. 
Reward will be paid, no 1"972 Yamaha 250 street questions asker< Call bike. Recently tuned. $525. Steve, 1859. Call 3378. 
Found: contact h 1ses with LOST AND FOUND case near Nort Dining 
Hall. Call Tom, 537. Lost: one Econ text and t1111o notebooks from South Found: '75 clas ring in D'ining Hall, lunch Thurs. O'Shag. Conta :t Mike Very important to get them Flynn at the Univ :lub any back. Contact Peggy, 8145. noon. 
L,ost: somewhere between US 31 and the Architecture FOR RENT bldg on the road to St. 
Mary's. Prescription House available, prime gl1asses, wire rim, in a lime S.E. area. Two BR fur­cc1se. Reward. Call 272-nished,. All utilities and 1451. cable for 3 students. Call 
287-7818. LI)St: Sept 2nd weekend. Keys on green painted Attention off-campus chain in vicinity of Alumni renters: 3 BR house. 825 
or Wash. Call Maura, 4697. Bryan St. behind St. Mary's College. Available Sept 6. Can take 4 students. Call 287-7818. 
House for 1136 E. 
Experienced typist will do 
term papers, manuscripts. Call Jane, 233-5332. 
Want to learn to play guitar? Call Colleen, 288­5506. 
Richard Brautigan's latest novel, Hawkllne Monster, now in stock at Pandora's Books. 
Residents of Stoneridgeand Campus View: if you are interested in playing on our interhall hockey team this year, call Cliff or Pete at 272-9895, or stop by 18155 Stoneridge South Drive, Apt., A. (after 6:00), by Thursday, Sept. 12. 
Pandora's Books is pleased to announce our new dally service of _New York Times. 
We also carry Sunday NYT's too! 
No Coors Beer: Only a Hoax. 
PERSONALS 

Kathy F: 
Thanks for keeping my bed warm on Sunday night. Welcome back. 
Tim 

Dear Dorothea CSMC Laundry Number 4403): 
We loved your panties, let's see you come autograph them. 328 Keenan or phone 3332. 
Orange & Co 
WANTED 

Wanted: 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call Larry, 288­7375. 
Need 4 GA Rice tix. Dave, 6818. 
Wanted: Purdue tix. 2, 4, or 6 GA. Call Bob, 6931. 
Need 4 to 6 GA tickets for Pitt or Miami. Call 288­2613. 
Need ride to Dayton, Ohio this weekend. Will share costs. Call Suzanne, 4919. 
Needed desperately: 4 GPA Purdue tickets. Call Karen, 5140. 
Need 3 Purdue tickets, GA. Call 1548 evenings. 
Desperately need Purdue tix, GA or student. Call Joe, 3663. 
One or two GA or Faculty tickets for Purdue and Army games. 234-1672. 
Wanted: roommate to share 2 bedroom apt at Turtle Creek. 272-1239. 
Elvis Presley concert tickets for trade. we have 2 tickets, first row, main floor, Oct. show. Will trade for 2 tickets, rows 1·10, main floor, Sept show. Call 288-8435 or 234-7316. 
Need 4 Miami GA tickets. Also tickets for any other home game. Chuck, 1592. 
Need student or GA tickets for Purdue. Call Paul, 8923. 
Need 6 GA tickets for Purdue. S110. Call 8164. 
Ride needed from Mich City to NO 5 days a week. Call Jerry evenings at 874-6324. 
Need ride to Detroit suburb weekend of Sept 21, Can leave Sept 19, 20, 21. Please call Jean, 5384. 
Wanted: Senior or Grad student with skiing ability and knowledge of ski equipment. Approximately 20 hrs per week . some evenings and some weekends. Interviews Tues 
2. 9at Think Snow Ski Shop, Mini Mall at Town & Country Shopping Center. 
·­
--~-------------------­
the observer Tuesday, September 10, 1974
8 






Irish off and running: wreck Tech 
by c;, t>g Corgan S))()rts Editor 

Atlanta-The setting was strangely unfamiliar. Ara Par­seghian 's 1974 Irish weren't opening up against Nor­thwestern on a crisp mid-September Saturday afternoon. And the comforts of Notre Dame stadium, with its raucous home crowd, were 900 miles away. 
Hather, the Irish were playing on the very first week of the new college season in Atlanta, Georgia, before a Monday night national television audience, and against a Georgia Tech squad debuting a new head coach with an old weapon--the wishbone. 
Despite the eventual 31-7 Irish win, images of 1973 disappeared Pven faster after the opening kickoff. The Yellow Jackets, led by Quarterback Rudy Allen, took the ball 68 yds. in 14 plays for a score. This put the Irish in what later proved to be nothing more than just another unfamiliar situation. 
'If there was anything I was dissapointed with, it was our performance the first quarter,' said a pleased Parseghian. 'We were shocked when Tech took the kickoff and drove all the way down for a touchdown, but the defense had to look things over and adjust somewhat. Tech was ready and they got off to a great start. When they drove in for that score, they looked as tough as I expected.' 
On top of that the Irish found themselves in the disconcerting situation of being behind 7-0. 
Fortunately, that was also before Tom Clements began to perform. And the show he put on was superb. The Senior quar­terback finished the evening 10 of 14 in thl' passing department for 170 yds aud one touchdown, as well as 47 yards rushing, including a sparkling 35 yd. scamper from deep in •is own territory. 
'Clem1·11ts is fantastic,' said Tech head coach Pepper Rodgers, 'I like him. Clements could even fumble the ball and pick it up faster than we could. We needed the turnover and never got it.' 
Clements made sure of that. Most of the time he was guiding the ball into the waiting hands of a wide-open Pete Demmerle or handing it off to fullback Wayne Bullock 
Bullock accounted for two NO tallies. The first came on a one­yard plunge three plays after Drew M:ahalic recovered Dave Sims fumble on the Tech fourteen. Freshman David Reede converted the extra point and Georgia Tech's early lead vanished. 
The situation became somewhat more familiar for the Irish six minutes later when Reede kicked a 22 yd. field goal to put them on top 10-7. The offense had driven 67 yds. to the Tech five, but a Clements to Bullock pass was incomplete and the Irish settled for the three point play. 
The turning point in tthe game came five minutes into the second period. After Dave Myers scrambled 43 yds. to th ND 3 the defense rose to the occasion. Sims got two on the right side before Mahalic got to him, but halfback Jim Murray was stopped for no gain by Steve Niehaus. Sims tried the right side and Greg Collins didn't let him get anywhere. Myers then decided to see what he could do and before he did, John Dubenetzky dropped him for a three yard loss. 

'That was a beautiful goal-line stand, ' beamed Parseghian. 'It really turned things around. The defense stiffened and Tech just couldn't seem to get or keep posession of the ball after that.' 
Meanwhile, Clements and company did. A 13 play, eighty yard drive ehsued and it was a dandy. Clements was 6 for 6 for eighty-one yards, including a seven yard TD pass to Demmerle, with fifty-five seconds left in the first half. Reede again converted and a 17-7 halftime lead brought back '73 memories. 
The second half brought more of the same. Two long drives stalled short of the goal line, but after Tony Brantley's punt bounded out of the end zone, the Yellow Jackets went to work on their own twenty. After Niehaus tackled split end Jimmy Robinson, attempting to throw an end-around pass, Niehaus' counterpart at left end, Jim Stock, recovered a Sims fumble on the Tech 22. Four plays later Bullock crashed the left side for the score and a 24-7 ND lead. 
A final Irish tally came on a 
beautifully executed eighty-yard 
drive. Halfback AI Samuel 
slithered through the left side from 
eight yards out, and with 7:42 


St>nior quarterback Tom Clements had a dazzling opening game as the Irish downed Georgia Tech 31-7. 

remaining in the game, the Irish had a 31-7 lead. 
'They're just too gdod for us,' moaned Rodgers. 'I didn't schedule them, I never would havee. They physically over­powered us. I'm glad WI! got it over with now and don't have to look forward to playing it in November when they are really good. Notre Dame just refused to lose the game.'
Parseghian wanted to see what his team could do. 'Tech is going to win some games this year--Pepper has done a great job. The game was a test for us to see how much damage was done through all of our losses. I think the loss of our speed is significant. It's apparent that we don't have Luther Bradley in our secondary and Eric Pennick and AI Hunter in our backfield. We lost Art Best tonight with a broken jaw and that's the end of all of our speed.' 
Unfortunately, Best wasn't the only casualty. Linebacker Sherm Smith tore ligaments in his knee and will be lost for the season. 
But on the whole, it seems the Irish have picked up where they left off last year. The offense gained 441 total yards while holding the Yellow Jackets to a meager 174, and only 28 in the second half. 
'We executed well and took advantage of what they gave us,' noted Clements, 'It was the first game and we had to feel our way at first, but we came on strong.' 
It all sounds, and especially looks, strangely familiar. 
Crew team marks 
•

1 0 th QniUVersary 
This September marks the lOth anniversary of the Notre Dame crew team, and they are looking forward to a very successful season, both in men's and women·~ competition. The men, coached by Gavin Viano and captained by Paul McEvily, will be working hard this fall to prepare for a heavy schedule next spring. Their eight-man racing shell, in which each person 'sweeps' the water with an oar apiece, is currently practicing six days a week to perfed their technique and timing. 
Our women's team is equally busy. With coach Clete Graham and captain Marilyn Crimmons, they are striving to defend the Midwestern Championship that they won this past season. At the present, like their male coun­terparts, they are concentrating on training new members, since most members of this club sport have had no previous rowing ex­perience. 

Banner to Recieve 
Dateline Atlanta ...When in Rome, they say, do as the Roman's do. 
And when in the Deep South, do as the Southerners do. 
Ara Parseghian and his 1974 Notre Dame football team were in the 
Deep South last night for their first game of the current season and, in the 
best tradition of Clark Gable and Rhett Butler, they did as the Souther­
ners do. 
They behaved as perfect gentlemen. They were, at the beginning of the 
sultry evening in Atlanta's Grant field, gracious and encouraging to their 
Georgia Tech hosts. Before many of the less-than-capacity crowd of 
43,000 were in their seats, Parseghian's Irish allowed the yellow jackets 
an early 7-0 lead. 
"They caught us when we weren't quite prepared," said defensive co­
captain Greg Collins. "We weren't quite ready to go during that first 
series. But it didn't take us long to settle down." 
Even when that bit of courtesy had been dispensed, the Irish did not abandon their role of ideal guests. They were not greedy or grabby. Not unless you want to count Tom Parise's time-out when there were only two seconds remaining in the game. "I thought that was the turning point in the game," laughed Parise. "I thought everything turned around when I called time out with two seconds left." 
Beyond that one instance, though, the Irish never once stepped out of line. Acting as good guests should, they took only what was given. 
They accepted a first-period fumble by Tech halfback Dave Simms and turned it into an equalizing touchdown. They accepted the opportunities presented by the Yellow Jackets secondary and scorched the Jackets through the air during the first half. Split receiver Pete Demmerle, alone, caught five passes for 77 yards. 
And Ara's Irish accepted, willingly another Sims fumble in the third period. This one came on the Tech twenty-two, and set the stage for fullback Wayne Bullock's one-yard touchdown plunge with 33 seconds left in the frame period. The touchdown also iced the game. It gave the Irish a comfortable twenty-four to seven lead. 
"They had a good team, said Bullock, "and we leave here with a high regard for them and for their defense. 
"We came out passing early,'' he continued, " because they were leaving the passers open. But don't think we've changed our style. We're still a running team." 
There was never any question about a change of style, even after a scintillating first-half passing display (eight completions in ten tries, for 125 yds. and one touchdown) by Irish QB Tom Clements. The Irish returned to their punishing, time-consuming format in the second half, scored overland in each of the final two periods, and salted away the first victory of a title-defense season. 
"A running threat opens things up quite a bit for the passing game,'' said Demmerle. "If the seven or eight guys up front have to worry about the running game, that leaves only three or four to cover the pass." 
"We hadn't seen any Georgia Tech film," added Clements, "but we had seen UCLA (Pepper Rodgers, the Jacket's first year coach, tutored the Bruins last year), and Tech shows the same tendencies that UCLA did. We saw theat we could pass early in the game, and we saw that we could for off-tackle on them after the first quarter. 
"What we did, really, is just take what they gave us." 
The Irish were glad to accept the turnovers and the lapses in Tech secondary, but they weren't so pleased with the injuries which were dealt out during the course of the game. 
Senior linebacker Sherm Smith ripped the ligaments in his left knee on the last defensive series of the evening, and was lost for the series. Junior tailback Art Best suffered a broken jaw, but may be ready for NO's next game, a September 21 meeting with the Northwestern Wildcats. 
And Clements himself wore a patchwork of angry red abrasions after the game. 
But Parseghain and his Irish, playing their role of gentlemen to the hilt, tried not to dwell on the evening's disappointments. They were content, instead, to compliment their opponents and to savor their 31-7 triumph. 
Rhett Butler would certainly have approved. 



Notre Dame 
Observer 
07251308 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
008800 
Box: 08 
Volume: 9 
lssue:10 
Day: Wed 

Date: 9/11/1974 12:00:00 AM 
Notes: 

Issue # Missing (may not exist) : 
Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 

On Tlbe Inside 
Action Exp1ress 
... page 3 Women's Chaplain
•..page 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 10 Wednesday, September 11, 1974 

No one co1npletely satisfied 



Veto brought no opposition 
HPC unanimously endorses calendar change 
at next Tuesday's meeting. 
by Bob Radziewicz 'I think we must exercise allStaff Reporter avenues in approaching a calendar 

Dissatisfaction with Fr. James revision. We have to take the time Burtchaell's remarks concerning now to really look into this the academic calendar dominated situation and get some solid discussion at the Hall Presidents support for revision,' said HowL Council meeting last night. Other means for supplementing
Referring to Monday's Observer the H .P. C. position were discussed. interview with the Provost, Ivan Brown, Holy Cross president, Chairman Bob Howl expressed his suggested that more polls should particular displeasure at Burt­be taken to check student interest chaell's reply that the results of the on the present controversial Observer's Registration Day poll calendar as the year goes on. was 'insignificant.' 'If student interest remains as 
'It just seemed to me that the high in opposition to the pre-Labor opinion of 90 percent of the student Day start as it is now, we can use body who favored reconsideration these polls as a supporting 
.•:''

of the pre-Labor Day start, was argument when next year'simportant enough to warrant a calendar review is taken up,'review by Fr. Burtchaell,' Howl Brown stated. By publicizing the mention•ed. 'A substantial figure results, we can draw attention not like 90 percent just shouldn't be only to the Administration, but to disregarded.' the alumni as well,' he proposed to 
Rich Morton, Fisher Hall the hall presidents.
president, proposed drafting a Howl tabled further debate until letter that asserted the H.P.C.'s next week's meeting. He ap­position in favor of calendar pointed Morton to organize a revision. Following unanimous committee for drafting the H.P.C. 
endorsement for the letter, Morton stand on the calendar situation. 
added, 'The students must The H.P.C. chairman further organize in support of a calendar announced that information change 111ow.' concerning meal co-exchange with Following its call for action, St. Mary's will be given next we•ek. Howl pmposed a meeting with Howl also reminded the hall members of the Academic Council presidents that any questions to seek support for calendar regarding property confiscated in revision. He then announced plans residence halls over the summer for having Academic Council should be directed to Bill McLain, 
Tom Porter, vice-chairman, and Bob Howl, chairman of the Hall President's Council
representative Jim Ambrose sit in student ombudsman. 
compare points before last night's meeting of the HPC ( Phojo by Ed Brower) 
by Jim Eder Contributing Editor 

Fr. Hesburgh's veto of the revised rule on sexuality 
proposed by the Student Life Council has brought forth 
no strong opposition from former council members. 
The proposal which had been passed by a narrow 11-to-B margin with two abstentions, was a com­promise measure between those who favored the current rule specifying no limitations on the Univer­sity's power of disciplinary action and those who sought to have the sex rule totally abolished. 
Inadequate proposals 
Comments made last night by several members of last year's council indicate that not even those who voted in favor of the revision were satisfied with its proposal that those students violating the university's policy regarding premarital sex be forced to live off campus. 
"We did not hc:>vP adeq!late proposals to choose from," explained Fr Carl Ebey. "It was near the end of the school year and the council was pressed for time." 
'lesser of two evils' 
Frank Flanagan, a student representative on the SLC last year, pointed out that he ha,d voted in favor of the proposed revision "only because it was the lesser of two evils." 
"Limiting the University's discipline to forcing the violators off campus was at least better than not limiting it at all," he explained. "I really would have liked to see the sex rule abolished," Flanagan con­tinued. "I do not believe in legislating morals." 
Last May, when the SLC was reviewing all University rules, its Chairman Fred Syburg appointed a special four-man committee to write a revision of the sexuality rule, which had been heavily criticized for its vagueness. 
The committe consisted of Dean of Students John Macheca, Director of Student Activities Fr. David Sehlaver, Student Body Vice President Mike Geisinger and Pat McLaughlin (SBP-elect substituting for Student Body President Dennis Etienne.) 

No specific penalties 
According to McLaughlin, Macheca and Schlaver advocated a rule similar to the current one. "They wanted no specific penalties to be listed," McLaughlin explained. "Geisinger and I, on the other hand, wanted to abolish the rule altogether," he continued. 
After two sessions and six hours of debate, the committee developed a compromise revision. This proposal stated that those students who engage in premarital sex "can expect to be challenged and may be asked to leave the on-campus community." 

Not clear enough 
"I felt that the students sacrificed a lot by accepting this proposal, and I still believe that a person's sexual activity is their own business," said McLaughlin. "But at least this rule would define and limit the maximum penalty to being forced off campus.'' 
McLaughlin emphasized the need for students to "Know where they stand" when rules are violated. "Clauses saying the University can take disciplinary action' are not clear enough." 
The committee presented its compromiseproposalto the entire SLC at its last meeting of the year. Schlaver, however, also presented his own proposal, which ac­cording to McLaughlin was "still open-ended and not much different form the present rule." 

Cbm:IX'omise passed 
The council first defeated Schlaver's proposal and then passed the compromise revision by an 11-to-8 vote. 
"It was the first time in my years on the council that a vote has been that close," commented Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of staff development. "This may have influenced Fr. Hesburgh's decision," he also noted. 
Ackerman explained that he had voted against the proposed revision because of its use of sending people off campus as a penalty. "This places a stigma on those already living off campus," he said. 

Present rule vague 
Schlaver who agreed that off-campus living should not be used as a penalty, said, "The University either stands for a morality or it doesn't. We can't com­promise our philosophy by saying 'do what you want off-campus.' " . 
Schlaver also noted, "I suppose the present rule is a little vague, but there are good points to vagueness as well as bad. -Anytime you try to specify you run into trouble." 

Chn't override veto 
The SLC cannot override Hesburgh's veto, even if it unanimously supported the proposed revision, con­sequently, it has decided to ask its rules committee to come up with a new revision proposal. 
The committee will hold an organizational meeting this week to decide how andwhenit will confront this task. If and when the rules committee writes another proposal, it will be put before the entire council for another vote. 
"The ball is back in our court," said Ackerman, who predicted some kind of further compromise in which violators will be subject to disciplinary action. 
the observer Wednesday,, SeRtember 11. JJZ4
2 


warld briels 
BOSTON <UPI> -A crowd protesting a desegregation order for Boston schools threw eggs and tomatoes at Sen. Edward Kennedy when he showed up at the rally Monday. The demonstrators hissed, turned their backs on the Massachusetts Democrat and sang 'God Bless America.' 
KATAMANDU, NEPAL (UPI) -Fourteen persons were killed when they were swept away by landslides and swollen rivers in an area about 25 miles south of here, the national news agency reported Tuesday. 
DECATUR, GA. (UPI) -A baby boy, dumped into a garbage truck by his 15 year old mother an hour after hish, was reported in excellent condition Tuesday after being rescued by two garbage collectors. 
MIAMI (UPI)-Gov. Reubin Askew became the second Florida governor ever to win renomination without a runoff Tuesday night and it appeared his percentage of the vote might be the highest in state Democratic primary history. 
an ca~pus t:aday 
l0am-l2pm: seminar: metropolitan life Insurance co.: cce l2pm-9pm: art show: sarita levin 'drawings and paintings': little theater gallery l2pm-9pm: photo show: faye serlo 'recent photographs': moreau photo gallery l2pm-Spm: art show: tom scarff 'neon and drawings': moreau main gallery 6:30pm: meeting & movie: nd sailing club with movie, 'dueling the wind': engineering rm 303 7:30pm: lecture: 'why pre-cana?' smc american scene cultural series: carroll hall 7:30pm: meeting: faculty senate: cce 
8: lSpm: concert: goodman harp ensemble: library aud.: $1.00 
Marketing Club opens with picnic 
I 
The Notre Dame Marketing Club will open its 1974-75 schedule ofI activities with a free picnic for all Marketing majors or Sophomores Marketing Intents. The picnic will 
be held on the Main Quad beside the Business Administration Building Thursday, September 12,
t. 
from 12:15 to 1:00 p.m. Scheduled activities this year
r 
include smokers, the Gilbert
I Lecture series, field trips and a symposium. Dues have been reduced from $3.00 to $2.00 per year. Anyone interested in joining the club may do so at the Marketing Picnic. 

Renowned harpist performs tonight 
Renowned harpist Gerald Goodman will perform in the Library Auditorium tonight at 
8:15. Admission will cost one dollar. 
Sponsored by the Office of Student Affairs, Goodman will perform a variety of songs, ranging from ancient ballads to symphonies to modern songs and Broadway show tunes. Music Department Chairman William Cerny will provide piano ac­companiment. 
Goodman, who also sings well, has toured over two hundred college campuses as well as playing at numerous resorts and events throughout the country. 
A Cleveland native, he began his professional career in New York, playing his harp for ten funerals a day. 
JI 
l

Distributor 



Volunteers needed 
On-campus blood drive begins 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 

The first phase of a new on­campus blood drive program, a blood donor drive, is currently underway in all residence halls and dining halls and will continue through September 20. 
The former recruitment deadline of September 15 has been extended to allow students to become more aware of the program and to give them more time to volunteer, explained Colleen O'Rorque, drive chair­person. 
According to the new program, the Red Cross Blood mobiles which came to the campus in the past will no longer be used. Instead, students will donate blood on a rotating hall basis at the Central Blood Bank downtown. 
Each hall has been assigned one Tuesday or Thursday during the semester in which it has been asked to send 20-25 student donors to the blood bank. 
The blood bank is a member of the American Association of Blood Banks, which announced that it would receive only volunteer donors by 1975. This increased the need for volunteers. 
However, the county blood program is very young and cannot afford to sponsor mobile blood units on-campus, added Heisler. Therefore, the campus council developed its system of taking
students to the Central Blood 
~~~.:::!':':.:~~ :..·:::::-.:~ ~[:~~~t~~?J::~~r~~~
semester (S14 per vear) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame,
Indiana 46556. Second cla11 
Bank. 

Not all students can donate, though, continued Heisler. No one who has had infectious hepatitus, diabetes, chronic kidney disease, or infectious mononucleosis within the past year, may donate. 
Volunteers who at the time of donation have a cold or flu, are asked to postpone their donation, until symptoms have subsided. Consumption of diet pills, asprin, contraceptives, or antihistamines will not disqualify a donor. Mter eight weeks, a donor is eligible to donate again. 
Persons between the ages of 17 and 65 may donate. Females must weigh at least 110 pounds; males, 
125. All persons with anemia will not be accepted as donors. 
Above all else, Heisler urged all prospective donors to have a good night's rest and to have eaten within six hours of donation. 
Hall recruiters and drivers to provide transportation between the blood bank and campus are still needed, said Heisler. To volunteer or for more information contact Colleen O'Rorke, 5261, or AI Cllahan, 1642. 
:;~.ge paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 0 n
L,__"':'::__:==========::::.. :;:;: :::: 
Ca II 288-8488 for time and directions 

'BETTER THAN 
'M *A* S* H' -Roger Ebert, S u n ·Tim e s 
GEORGE SEGAL &ELLIOT GOULD 
•••being the story of 
two bel-on-anything guys 
~:::::;:::::;:::::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::::::::;;;:::::::;;;:::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;.;.;;;.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::if. 
:;:; ATTmria·N........................... t i ENGINEDHNG STUDENTS ] 
.I.Jl. 

If you a r ~ inter e s I e d in 
I
·.·.­
:.:~=.·• r e p r e s e n t i n g t h e E n g i n e e r i n g .:~.~~· @: 5 f U d e n f 5 f h e } 


?15D~~~%~N2~o;~~~d/o.Bend
a---­




INDIANA LAWS CAN BE CHANGED 
NOW is the time to BEGIN. 
REGISTER TO VOTE TODAY & TOMORROW SEPT. 11 & 12 
9 A.M.-5P.M. LaFortune Lobby 


5 P.M.-6:30 P.M. 
outside the Dining Halls 
I {.' 

-.·.·
UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC COONCIL, :~~~
Foreign Car Parts Co. 
==== 
Parts & accessories for imported can for all makes at lowest price~s. 
'************************* 
:For NO Students, Faculty & Staff 10 
:* per;cent discount with I D & pur-1 * ! chase of $10 or more. * 
************************t 


-~----·-------~-----~--~ 
Wednesday, September 11; 1974 the observer 
3 

In Lyons Hall 



Gartlandisfirst resident chaplain 
by Ellen Syburg Staff Reporter 

Lyons Hall has the distinction of being the first women's dorm at Notre Dame to have a chaplain in residence. Although the post is new, the man who fills it has been a member of the Notre Dame community at various times during the last 46 years. 
Fr. Frank Gartland, the new chaplain, discussed his thoughts about the new job in an interview yesterday. "To help inspire 

.1ere is the best place to roller skate? The cracks in the sidewalks are not only wearing down my skates, but driving me a little crazy. Isn't there a sidewalk with fewer cracks in it? 
After several hours of careful measuring we came to the conclusion that all the cracks in the sidewalk are a standard size due to the constant expansion and contraction with fluctuati~ns in the weather. So if sidewalk skating is what you want, you are doomed, forever, to ride with the cracks. However, if you are willing to skate in an enclosed area Stepan Center is the best place on campus to skate. 
When can I register my bicycle? 
You can register your bike at the Security Office any time between 9:00a.m. and 4:00p.m. There is a small fee of $1.00. 
A girl friend of mine is coming to visit me one of these weekends, I don't know any girls on campus who she could stay with, is there any place where she can stay? 
She can stay at the Farley Motel. As far as we know the cost will be minimal if any, for further information you can contact Jeanne Earley at 7180. 
Du Lac handbooks report student view 
By Mary Reher Staff Reporter 

This year, for the first time, students can turn to a handbook called Du Lac written from a student's viewpoint by other students. 
Previously, there was a separate pamphlet for academic codes, student manual, traffic information, etc. Through a cooperative effort of students and the administration, a single guidebook was created which would not be easily lost and which students would be inclined to read. 
Several students wrote sec­tions, but the major planners and contributors were John Macheca Dean of Students, and An~ McCarry and Fred Baranowski co-editors. Although Du La~ contains much vital information, "the idea was not to tell you everything," according to McCarry. "H leaves things to find out, like legends or secrets." 
In choosing a title, McCarry 
felt that Du lLac (French for "of 
the lake") was appropriate since 
the official name of the university 
is Notre Dame Du Lac. 
The handbooks are being 
distributed this week by 
residence hall staffs. 
development of the human person and to foster the growth of a Christian community", are his two main goals as a member of the Campus Ministry staff. He feels that a Christian has a duty to serve others and hopes that through his role he can challenge the students to do so. 
Gartland has had extensive experience in this type of work, most recently at King's College, Pa. There he helped to develop a "viable experiment in Christian community and the sharing of our human lives" in which 
UNCLE WILLIE'S FATAL GLASS OF BEER 
l.ONIGHT! DRINK &DROWN ALL YOU CAN DRINK 
STARTING 7:00 PM UNCLE WILLIE'S OPEN 11:00 -3:00 AM DAILY THE 1NEWEST STUDENT BAR ALSO FEATURING SANDVVICHES 

937 S. BEND AVENUE 
students and campus ministers designed their own housing situation with these specific goals in mind. 
The chaplain joked about his situation as the only male in a woman's dorm. He noted, "One of my friends told me I was really fulfilling the scripture of 'blessed art thou amongst women' ". He stated that while the position is unique on this campus that he sees "not just young man or young woman but the common denominator of person" and thus his role as minister remains unchanged. 
While Gartland adjusts to his new position he has also had the pleasure of greeting old friends that he make in his previous years here. He first came to Notre Dame as an undergraduate in 1928, was ordained in 1937 and took the post of Prefect of Religion, a job he held for two years. One of his duties during that time was the publishing of the Notre Dame Bulletin, a one­page daily. This experience began his career in writing and journalism that has occupied much of his time since. 
Gartland then moved to the Our Sunday Visitor and was the editor of the youth section of that magazine. As this was during the war years, he recalls corresponding with many GI's wh() would write to him at the paper for guidance while over­seas. 
In 1948 he returned to Notre Dame to edit and Catholic 
Fr. frank Gartland hopes "to help inspire development of the human person" as chaplain of Lyons. 
(Photo by Ed Brower) 

Boy Magazine and held a similar spent at King's College, he also post with Catholic Miss from held a campus ministry post at 1960-62. Stone hill College, Mass. for five 
After turning over the years. magazines to Fr. Tom McNally All in all, Gartland says he is (rector of Grace Hall), Gartland "happy to be back" and looks went east where he has been forward to working with the since. Besides the five years he women of Lyons Hall. 
KEN'S DEN 
HAIRSTYLING 
-Award winning stylists 
Unique atmosphere 
Roffler styIing products 
Across from 100 Center ( Lincolnway West) in Mishawaka 
Phone 
_j 

------------------------------------------------------------~----------~---------------­


Supersound? 
t:ditor, 
It's not easy to ruin a film as good as Jesus Christ Superstar, but the Student Union's bungling projectionists destroyed it with an amazing show of incompetence. They set up the projector in the back row of Washington Hall, making the picture fill about one­third of the screen and look like a home movie. When the starting time rolled around and the audience was all ready to be taken in by a good film, the boys in charged decided to play a few minutes from each reel and adjust the sound and focus. As if this wasn't enough, they then ran the same parts backwards. I realize this was the first showing, at 7:00 Friday, but any reasonably in­telligent adult knows that all the adjustments should be made before the audience arrives. Maybe those in charge thought they were giving little "sneak previews," but their ignorance resulted in destroying the whole "magic" and believability that a motion picture must have. About half-way through the film, the projector broke down and the audience groaned and complained for five minutes while the highly trained projectionists tried to figure out what they had done wrong. 
I'll have to admit that the blame for the butchery of this film does not fall entirely on the people in command. The equipment they were using was outdated and in rotten condition, and its uselessness went hand in hand with their ineptitude. The single speaker that they used sounded like it had been shot full of holes, and it crackled and buzzed on any sound above a whisper. Since the film was a musical, you can imagine how this magnificent sound system added to the total 
DOONESBURY 

effect. A few nice touches such as a torn screen and house lights that weren't turned down enough complemented the other problems. 
I've never seen more worthless beat-up equipment or more amateurish, blundering projec­tionists in my life. 
This whole mess points to the even larger problem of the lack of any decent well~quipped place to show films on the N.D. campus. The engineering auditorium is not only much too small, but the chairs there are so uncomfortable that you keep hoping the film will end so you can stand up and relieve your agony. The K of C Hall is also too small and is ingeniously set up so that the person's head in front of you fills the entire middle of the screen. I think that Washington Hall would be the best spot if new equipment was installed and it was run by people of intelligence and experience. There is so little en­tertainment on this campus that what we do have, namely films, can be greatly improved by Pat 
McLaughlin  and  student govern­ 
ment.  
Richard Cronin  


Amnesty to all ? 
Dear Editor, 
President Ford's decision to grant Richard Nixon amnesty leaves Mr. Ford no other alter­native but to also grant un­conditional amnesty to all draft evaders and deserters. The same arguments used to justify Nixon's amnesty can also be applied to these men. 
-Mr. Nixon and his family have gone through enough agony and his life can never be the same again. 
The families of the draft resistors and deserters were torn 
the observer 

Night Editor: AI Rutherford Ass't Night Editor: Ginny Faust Layout: Marti Hogan, Karilee Clark, Norm Bower Copy Reader: Ken Bradford and Jim Eder Day Etlitor: George Velcich Editorials: Ken Girouard Features: J.R. Baker, Norm Bower Sports: Bob Kissel Typists: Camille Arrieh, Kathy Grace, Nell VIII, Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator: M.J. Foley Picture Screener: Albert D'Antonio Night Controller: Phil Orscheln 
The Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief: Tom Drape Editorial Editor: Ann McCarry Managing Editor: Marlene Zioza Sports Editor: Greg Corgan News Editor: Terry Keeney Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy Special Projects: AI Rutherford St. Mary's Editor: Mary Janca Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink Features Editor: J.R. Baker Contributing Editors: Fred Graver, 
Jim Eder, Pattie Cooney Photo Editor: Zenon Bidzinskl 
apart by their men's decisions. 
Not only did they suffer the in­
ternal pains but in many cases 
they became the target of com­
munity disdane. 
When these men return to the 
United States it will be extremely 
difficult, perhaps impossible for 
them to return to their old home 
towns. tThey too will have to 
rebuild their lives from scratch. 
-Mr. Nixon could never receive a 
fair trial. 
The same applies to these men. 
The response by the VFW to the 
President's recent suggestion of 
limited amnesty should be 
evidence enough that emotions are 
still running too high for an un­
biased jury to be found. 
People argue that by granting 
unconditional amnesty to the draft 
evaders it would allow them to 
never have to admit committing a 
crime or moral wrongdoing. Mr. 
Nixon did neither. 
If the United States can forgive Mr. Nixon, American citizen, it must do the same for the thousands of citizens with the same set of circumstances. If she can't, there can never be" ... justice, for all." 
Stephen J. Vamos 


Relief volunteered 
To the Editor: 
In his interview Mongay with the Observc!r, Father Burtchaell termed the actual setting of the school calendar as one of his most unpleasant responsibilities, adding that "anybody else is welcome to it." 
I, for one, would be most delighted to relieve our Provost of this most wearisome burden. 
Andrew J. Schilling, '76 

The black experience 
james stewart 
Editor's Note: "The Black Experience" is a new feature which will appear periodically in The Observer. The purpose of the series is to provide the Notre Dame community with an educational perspective on the activities of the Black population at Notre Dame. In particular, the series tries to reflect the attempts of the Black population to make a meaningful contribution to the Notre Dame environment while at the same time preserving and enhancing the Black experience. The first article in the series deals with the Council of Black Student Organizations. Con­tributions to the series are invited and should be addressed to Ann McCarry, P.O. Box Q, The Observer. 
The Council of Black Student Organizations is an informal o~ga~ization which was created to achieve some degree of coor­dmatwn among the activities of the diverse student groups whost constituencies are primarily Afro-Americans. Among the groups represented in the council are the Society of Ujama, the New Frontier Scholastic Society, the Black Graduate Student Union ~nd the Black Law Student Association (BALSA). In addition, t~ msure that all segments of the Afro-American population are represented in the planning and execution of Council sponsored activi~ies, special representative status was granted to Afro­Amencan females, and other individuals who are active in campus activities. 
Last year the Council successfully sponsored the Black Cultural Arts Festival, the theme of which was "Black Perspectives in Transition." Participation by the Notre Dame student body at large in the festival activities was not as great as had been hoped but hopefully, this series and other attempts by the Council to renew interest in the activities of the Afro-American population at Notre Dame and the country at large will insure greater par­ticipation in this year's activities. 
Many of the council's activities are sponsored jointly with other campus organizations. As an example, the Cultural Arts Festival received financial aid from Student Government, the Office of Stud~nt Activities, the Center for Civil Rights, and the Black Studies Program. One of the Council's goals for this academic year is to enhance this cooperation so that the activities under Council sponsorship can be expanded. . Th_is year'~ activities are currently in the planning stages and aid m this pla~mng .w.ould be deeply appreciated. 'Thus far, this year, the Council has JOm~y sponsored a dance and a picnic, the primary purpose! of both bemg to provide a mode for facilitating the entry of new students into the Notre Dame environment and to acquaint them with the Council and its program. 
T~ose i~terested in serving on the Council are requested to re~1ster with th~ secretary of the Black Studies Program on the third floor of 0 Shaughnessy. All Afro-American students are requested to fill out the simple questionnaire in the Black Studies 
Office. Note: To facilitate the dissemination of information concerning the meetmgs and ot~er activiti~s which reflect the Black Experience, one feature of this column Will be a calendar of activities. 
Calendar of Upcoming Activities 
Wednesday, September 11: Black Graduate Student Union Meeting, 7:30, Black Cultural Arts Center, LaFortune. 
Saturday, September 14: Black 'FFaculty-Student softball game, 2:00-4:00 p.m. Dinner and rap session 5:00-9:00 p.m. Diamond South of ACC. 
Column space on this page is open to any member of the university community. Regular and or oc­cassional contributions are welcome on any topic, in any style. Ifinterested please contact Ann McCarry at the Observer Office, 283-8661, for further in­formation. 
The Observer welcomes all comments and opinions 
submitted in the form of letters. 
All letters should be submitted to The Observer, 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556, or brought to The 
Observer offices in the south wing on the 3rd floor of 
LaFortune Student Center. They must be 
typewritten, double-spaced and signed. Names will 
be withheld on request, however. · The Observer reserves the right to edit letters when 
spatial limitations deem necessary. Length of letters 
are asked to be no more than two pages. 

fareir:~n nates 
the genius of mad ludwig 
tim a!reiley 
The "Fairy Tale King" grew to be a more appropriate title as time passed, since his dream castle served as the model for the Disneyland Castle. Ludwig II, the King of 
Bavaria (1864-1886), tried though never succeeded in overcoming his shyness and craving for solitude. He was raised frie~d­less and died friendless, having only his fertile imagination as company for most of his life. This dreaming would ultimately build his greatest monument and destroy his lonely life. 
Born August 25, 1845, he was raised in the Hohenschangau Castle, a medieval palace perched on a hill that gives it a commanding view of the surrounding Bavarian 
countryside. Here Ludwig enjoyed 
the company of only his mother and ser­
vants, with very few exceptions. Roaming 
the nearby forests and valleys alone became 
a passion of his at an early age. His tutors 
often were no match for his active mind, and 
his father, the Crown Prince Maximillian, 
raised him in a strict way that did not 
prepare him for the outside world or his 
later assumption of the throne. The narrow 
atmosphere turned the young prince toward 
an idealism that would divorce him from the 
profane world, through romantic paintings 
on the castle walls, the literature of 
Frederick von Schiller, and Richard 
Wagner's operas. At the age of eighteen, 
this solitary dreamer assumed the throne on 
the death of his father. 
Unexpectedly the now King Ludwig 
worked hard at the daily affairs of state, 
striving mightily to improve the educational level of his people. Schools, colleges, the Institute of Technology in Munich were established in his time. The Red Cross gained its first royal supporter in Ludwig, and soon spread theoughout the German state. Bavarian arts and crafts had a great friend in the king, who also sponsored Wagner until political pressures forced him to cancel that support. Two wars marred his reign, though he resisted them until external forces became irresistable. The shy Ludwig even made attempts to ride through the country side to meet his people, and allow them to see their king. 
Increasingly, however, Ludwig sought to avoid human contact as much as possible. Long, lonely wanderings through the Alps helped him escape what he called "this coarse world." Though he took advice on many problems, he would seclude himself and follow his own counsel when making decisions. Female companionship was sparse; his only engagement to his cousin, Princess SQphie of Bavaria was abruptly terminated after ten months, and he never considered marriage again. And at a time when other monarchs were building great Baroque palaces, Ludwig turned a large amount of his energies to constructing medieval castles: the Linderhof, Herren­chiemsee, and other planned castles, plus his magnificent obsession, Neuschwanstein. 
On a mountain a few hundred meters from 
his childhood Hohenschangau, lay the ruins 
of the ancient Vorderhohenschangau. Here 
Ludwig decided to rebuild it "in the style of 
the ancient German knights castles ... The 
place is one of the nicest ever found." 
south bend movies 
Wednesday, September 11, 1974 the observer 
5 


THEATER Avon Boiler House 
Cinema Art Colfax Michigan Ready Riverpark State Town and Country Scottsdale SHOW The Groove Tube American Grafitti Dirty Mary and Crazy Larry Call Theater for shows and times Dr. Zhivago Call theater for shows and times Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid California Split Death Wish Animal Crackers That's Entertainment TIMES 
7:30, 9:30 
7:30, 9:45 
7:30, 9:30 
7:30 

7:10, 9:10 <Niles Time) 7:15, 9:15 
1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 1:45, 3:45,5:45 
7:45,9:45 1:45, 4:15, 6:45,9:45 Though seventeen years of construction failed to complete the dream, the entire exterior was completed, along with enough of the interior to demonstrate Ludwig's romantic, if misdirected genius. 
The walls of all his rooms are decorated profusely with tapestries, frescoes of his favorite Wagner operas, or completely knot­free wood paneling. His nine foot bed has a carving of the resurrection of Christ at its foot, and wood reproductions of all the great churches in Europe on the canopy; the room took fourteen sculptors four and a half years to complete. A stone mosaic of two million pieces on the floor of the throne hall was laid to symbolize all the plants and animals in the world, though the actual throne was never built. One hall is an ar­tificial grotto, using bronze lizards as door handles -here was his retreat. Central heating and air conditioning, plus hot and ocld running water, and a tank for keeping fish were designed for the highly advanced kitchen. A 150-foot waterfall fell into the Poellat Gorge, the King's "backyard:' Almost every architectural style and in­novation was incorporated into Neusch­wanstein, but Ludwig lived there only 102 days. 
As the castle took time from the affairs of state, so did it money from the treasury. The King's closest advisors feared that he would spend in his lifetime a royal fortune that required 800 years to accumulate. To insure a bloodless coup 


squirrels in academia 
by clytemestra von der vogelweide 
There are some of us on this campus who have done -in default of a better preoc­cupation-some serious thinking about squirrels --Notre Dame squirrels to be exact. (It's high time someone did in this era of general detente.) Our observations although necessarily limited have been concentrated not to say intense and not­withstanding our inability to comprehend a single syllable of squirrelish (although this writer speaks very fluent cat) we are still on the basis of observation and a thorough understanding of comparative academics been able to present the following con­clusions which while startling are never­theless easily verifiable by selected data and are above all logical and consistant. 
First it has been ascertained that Notre Dame is a "Center of Advanced Human Studies for Squirrels". This was first conjectured when a rather large squirrel with bloodshot eyes was discovered fran­tically drawing diagrams now believed to be genetics charts under a pine tree infront of Brownson Hall. The tree in question is frequented by a number of perpetually frazzeled young adult squirrels -obviously a seminar class. 
The squirrels appear to be investigating three major areas of la condition humaine; social customs, physiology and genetics. The vast majority of squirrel sociologists favour the hypothesis that humans are intelligent if largely unintelligable beings. This supposition is based on the sociologists' not infrequent observations of an autumal rite of obviously religious significance and attended with great fervour where an d'etat, the counsellors arranged for doctors, who never personally examined the king, to have him declared insane. After a short, half-hearted resistance, he surrendered on June 12, 1886, remaining cool and calm while being transferred to Hohen­schwangau, now remade into a mental prison. He pled innocent to charges against him, ranging from building castle prisons, to commissioning the construction of an airplane, while steadfastly declaring his sanity. This protest was short -lived, for on June 13, he took a walk with only his doctor, and both were found drowned in a nearby lake the next day, the circumstances of which are still amystery. 
A souvenir booklet on "mad" Ludwig, copyright 1974, suggests that more time is needed for history to pass jud_gment on the king, now dead for 88 years. It is clear that he was a man misplaced in history: an idealist having to cope with the dominance of Bismarck's Realpolitik, an introvert cast in a role that requires the outgoing, a knight in armor riding during the machine age. While attempting to help his subjects, he was betrayed by his highest advisors and his own heritage. The King's flights of fantasy to escape this reality ran a ruinous cost on the treasury, forcing the drastic steps to remove him. Yet Bavarians today admire the "Fairy Tale King" because he tried to improve and beautify "this coarse world." They also pity him as a man who charged after a target he could never find. 
almond idol is passed back and forth by the celebrants often to the detriment of their persons. Likewise all squirrels agree that human culture is nevertheless strictly limited as can be seen in their inability to adapt themselves to trees which are as every night thinking squirrel knows the only acceptable abode of civilized beings. 
Physiology is to a large extent a theoretical science becasue few im­mature humans are seen -in fact some squirrels argue that little humans are not of the same species at all but are rather a second species who occaisionaly keep the first as pets -it is often maintained by the emminent authorities that humans are born just as they are seen at the Center. One young radical has suggested that the age of humans is directly proportionate to their height and concluded that as compared to his control group most of the humans are painfull immature. How he came to use the basketball team as his control has not yet been ascertained. 
Genetics is the most frustrating of squirrels' studies due to the wide spread human practice of changing their "pelts" daily. The Bronson squirrel (see above) was so frustrated that his diagrams had trailed off into meaningless doodles even though he had successfully proved that the gene for blue is dominant in the lower pelt, while he himself ran aimlessly around the tree trunk. Some squirrels have even postulated that humans have the chamelion -like ability to change coat color at will, this change representing a reflection of their mental state. <It is not known yet what the ducks' opinions are.) 
Wednesday, September 11, 1974

the observer

.... 6 



Dorms establish Community Service Director 
By Valerie Zurblis Starr Reporter 
Do you want to help retarded children or work with disabled or elderly persons or help raise money for a worthy cause and don't know where to turn? There is a person right in your dorm you can go to-your Hall Director of Community Services. 
The Community Service Director establishes an easy contact basis with persons in­terested in working in com­munity services. Interested students can talk to their hall director and get extra in­formation on other charitable groups. The director also 
Shakespeare films to be 

shown cgain 
By Pat Flynn Starr Reporter 
This Thursday night, a five year tradition at Notre Dame will be continued as a series of Shakespeare films, sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission, will open with the Taming or the Shrew. 
The Franco Zeffirelli production starring Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor will be shown at 7 and 10 p.m. at the Engineering Auditorium. 
Other films in the series are Romeo and Juliet on Sept. 16, also produced by Zeffirelli; Tony Richardson's Hamlet, Oct. 7; and Roman Polanski's Macbeth on Dec. 2. 
The tradition of Shakespeare films held on campus was begun principally through the efforts of Professor Paul Rathburn of the English Department. Rathburn rented the films with his own money, and showed them to students and visitors in his classes. When asked about the early days, Rathburn stated, "By showing one or two films in a semester, I hoped to enrich my teaching." 
Rathburn continued, "about three years ago, with the help of the Knights of Columbus, we held a campus-wide series to raise money for Sr. Maritas Day Care Center in South Bend. "The project raised $400 and I decided there was a ripe market for a semester-long series." 
Lasy year the series put on nine films and attracted twleve thousand people. Asimilar series held this summer put on five films, each of which were at­tended by over 500 people. These programs, financed by the College of Arts and Letters, were shown to the public for free. 
This semester Rathburn has transferred control of the Shakespeare films to Bill Wylie and Tom McGinty of ths Cultural Arts Commission. 
Due to a lack of funds, a ~ent admission fee will be charged at this Thursday's showing. Wylie and McGinty have asked that students attending Thursday's showing bring quarters to avoid change shortages and keep order in the auditorium so that as many students as possible can be ad­mitted for the showings. 
Rathburn has also started a Shakespeare radio program on WSND this semester. Records of famous Shakespeare per­formances are played, before which Professor Rathburn gives a short commentary. 
maintains an awareness in the hall for the need of community : service. 
The directors of all the halls meet on a regular basis and decide which community projects to undertake. These projects originate through Campus Ministry or Fr. Thomas Stella, director of volunteer services. 
The group did a variety of things since its organization last January. Volunteers helped renovate a home for the elderly, helped in the blood drive, collected money for the · American Cancer Society, and · organized a clothing drive to help last year's tornado victims. 
This year the service group is working through clearing agents. Jerry Richardson of Morrissey, Ed Fritzen of Howard, and Stanford's Bill Chidichimo will get the facts on possible projects and bring them up at the meetings. Melanie Connell of Breen Phillips is in charge of going through the registration cards to find students interested in community service. She is also checking halls without directors. 
Pat Sheehan, director in Walsh, explained some of the future goals of the group. "We want to try and establish community service directors in the dorms at St. Mary's College", she said. "This will improve relations between the two schools and there's a storehouse of people there." 
"We also want to try and get each hall involved in their own projects, such as being 

responsible for one charity or group from South Bend," Sheehan added. "This will im­prove our relations with the South Bend community." 
Mike Davis, the spokesman for the organization, has high hopes this year and thinks it will be better because of last year's experience. 'We learned a few lessons of what kind of projects to take on and how the hall-to-hall set-up could be best im­plemented," Davis noted. "This year we want to get each director to develop a project for the hall." 
There are already organizations on campus that use students and this group wants to be more creative in our projects, added Davis. "We have to use our imaginations and come up with more projects that need to be done and less that are already being done," he said. 
Of the group itself, Davis said "This is one of the best groups I've ever been associated with. Everybody is outgoing and friendly and they have a great desire to help people." 
Brother Joseph McTaggart, advisor of the group, said that the purpose of the service directors is to "create an atmosphere in each hall where people would become interested in and concerned about the varied activites that are on campus." 
McTaggart continued, "I'm very pleased with the way things have gone. So far we have 95 per cent participation." 
There is still a need for service directors in some halls. Farley, Dillon, Alumni and Lyons need 
directors and off-campus Judy Temmerman, Badin; and 
students need someone to Jack Hanzel, Zahm. represent them. The present Keenan has two director -Bill directors are: Steve Cabir, Holy Shanabrouch and Larry Lam­Cross; Chris Conley, Cavanaugh; mers. Don Longanomts Glanner Tom Day, St. Ed's; Steve Goett, and Mike Smith of Pangborn are Grace; Jim Kelleher, Fisher; the other directors. 
SCIENCE MAJORS AND INTENTS! 
Any student in the 
allege of Science or any freshman with a science intent wishing to be considered for the post of Student 
Representative to the Academic Council must submit a letter of 
intent to that effect to Dr. Darwin Mead, 229 Niewland, no later than noon on Monda 
, Se . 16 

SUAW\ER CLEARANCE 
20%-50% OFF Cl\1 ALL SUMJV.ER IJtERCHAf\DS E UNTIL SEPTEIVBER 21 

In tne MINI MAIL at TOWN b. COUNTRY Shopp:ng Center
*TENNIS EQUIPMENT* 10 SPEEDS
*TENNIS APPAREL
* BACKPACKIM:; GEAR*MUNARI 1HKIM:71KXJI'S 
SUPER SPECIAL 
only
$130 atESENT 10 -SPEED 
$99 





CLUBS and ORGANIZATIONS 
wanting to be considered in this year's Student Government Budget must pick 
up a budget form in the Student 
Government Offices The form must be completed and returned by THIS Friday. 
...--~----­
Feelings vary over pardon 
-~-·~--~~--------~-~------~----~-----­

CLASSIFIED ADJ 
WASHINGTON (UPI) 
Republicans and Democrats in 
Congress spoke out quickly 
Tuesday aga:lnst the prospect of 
presidential pardons for Water­
gate defendants. 
Democrats denounced the 
idea as "a mockery of equal 
justice" and "the cover-up of 
cover-ups''. Republicans dis­
sented in softer terms. But 
none at first spoke in favor of 
the idea. 
White House spokesmen an­nounced at a noon news briefing that Ford, in a follow­up to his controversial Nixon pardon, had taken "under study" the question of pardons for Watergate defendants. 
"I can't imagine that he would make such a mockery of equal justice under the law by pardoning men who undertook to steal from the American people the right of a free election," said Sen. Sam Ervin, D-N.C., head of the Senate committee that investigated Watergate in televised hearings a year ago. 
b:~u ~~~~.~ ~~f~ b;~~~nR~t~~r~
Byrd, D-W.Va. "Where do we stop ... lt merely compounds one 
mistake. u would complete the 
cover-up of cover-ups." Sen. Jacob Javits, R-N.Y., said, "I thought it was a 
mistake about the Nixon pardon and I feel similarly about the 
others."
Sen. Robert Stafford, R-Vt., said he hoped Ford "will decide not to do it" and Sen. Robert 
Taft, R-Ohio, said that while 
Ford probably had to consider the possibility, "I would not go
along." 
violence 
By DAVID M. ROSEN 
BOSTON (UPI) Sen. Edward W. Brooke, R-Mass., Tuesday labeled abuse directed at Sen. Edward M. Kennedy at an antibusing rally "a dis­grace," and appealed for calm at the start of forced busing in Boston. 
Brooke's plea for to the people to "put their emotions behind them" followed a television appeal by Mayor Kevin White for "undivided cooperation and common pur­pose" in implementation of a federal school desegregation order to bus 18,000 students when schools open Thursday. 
He warned that the city will "pursue and prosecute" all persons who forcibly stop children from going to school. 
The mayor took a softer line on a proposed school boycott saying, "To those of you who do not believe in violence, but who choose to keep your sons and daughters at home -that is your decision." 
Brooke, the only black member of the U.S. Senate, said of Monday's anti-busing demonstration at which Kenne­dy was booed and had missiles thrown at him: 
"I regret what happened. It was a disgrace. I think he deserves an apology. 
"Everyone is entitled to their beliefs, but to throw eggs and tomatoes is a disgrace." 
Brooke said, "I don't believe busing is a panacea, but it is a 
constitutional  tool  to  bring  
about integration."  
Violence,  he said,  "will  never  

solve our problems in Boston or anywhere else." 
LOST AND FOUt!D 
Lost: one make-up bag. Gray paisley canvas with red leather binding. Initials 
N.M.S. Reward $20. Call 6294. 
Reward for return of green spiral notebook and Computer Data Processing book "accidentally" taken from South Dining Hall Sept 
5. Please give back . no 
questions asked. 235 Walsh, 8093. 
lost Sept 2nd weekend. Keys on green painted chain in vicinity of Alumni or Wash. Call Maura, 4697. 
Lost: somewhere between US 31 and the Architecture bldg on the road to St. Mary's. Prescription glasses, wire rim, in a lime case. Reward. Call 272­
1451. 
Lost: one econ text and 2 notebooks from South Dining Hall, lunch Thurs. Very important to get them back. Contact Peggy, 8145. 
WANTED 
Desperately need 2 GA tix for Purdue game. Call Trace at 283-1889. 

Need 2 GA tix for Purdue game. Call Bob, 283-1889. 
Need home for a male malamute pup, 2'12 months old, until May 1974. Will pay for food and expenses. Call Ken, 272-8879 or 283­3797. 
Desperately need 4 GA tix to Purdue. Call 6816. 
Wanted: one ticket to Purdue game. Call Bob at 8627. 
Must have one Purdue ticket, GA or student. Call Joe, 1132. 
Need 2 GA Purdue tix. Call Bob, 3374. 
•

i large $55.00 i i OR CALL REFRIGERATOR i 
:............~~~...~~-~-~............; Sunshine Promotions Presents 
Van Mor1·ison 
nnd 

The Caledonia Express 
Wanted: 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call Larry, 288­7375. 
Need 4 GA Rice tix. Dave, 6818. 
Wanted: Purdue tix -2, 4, or 6 GA. Call Bob, 6931. 
Need 4 to 6 GA tickets for Pitt or Miami. 288-2613. 
Need ride to Dayton, Ohio, this weekend. Will share costs. Suzanne, 4919. 
Need 3 Purdue tickets, GA. Call 1548 evenings. 
Desperately need Purdue tix, GA or student. Call Joe, 3663. 
Wanted: roommate to share 2 bedroom apt at Turtle Creek. 272-1239. 
Elvis Presley concert tickets for trade: We have 2 tickets, first row, main floor, Oct. show. Will trade for 2 tickets, rows 1 . 10, main floor, Sept show. Call 288-8435 or 234-7316. 
Wanted: 3 or 4 tickets to Elvis Presley concert (either night). Tickets must be together. Call Marty at 289-3751. 
Need 4 Miami GA tickets. Also tickets for any other home game: Chuck, 1592. 
Need 6 GA tickets for Purdue-$110. Call 8164. 
Ride needed from Mich City to NO, 5 days a week. Call Jerry evenings at 874-6324. 
Need ride to Detroit suburb weekend of Sept 21. Can leave Sept 19, 20, 21. Please call Jean, 5384. 
Desperately need two GA tickets for Rice. Will pay top dollar. Call Bill after 7 pm, 8533. 
Like Byrd, Sen. Lowell P. Weicker, R.-Conn., focused on the issue of where, in principle, 
such might lead.  extensions  of  pardon  
"My  definition  of  equal  

justice is not restricted to those involved in Watergate and Vietnam draft dodgers," Weick­er said. "There's no end." 
Sen. Daniel K. Inouye, D­Hawaii, reacted similarly: "Are they going to empty out the prisons now?" 
Senate Democratic ~eader Mike Mansfield of Montana declined comment after the White House announcement. But before the news came out Mansfield had told reporters h~ thought impending Watergate prosecutions should "go ahead" despite the Nixon pardon and its implications. 
Democratic Sens. Alan Cran­ston of California and Warren Magnuson of Washington said general Watergate pardons would be premature at this time. 
FOR SALE 

Stereo: 80 bucks without speakers. Can't beat it! Call 234-5646. 
Ashai Pentax SPO 11. Konica. Autoreflex T with Vivitar Zoom. 85. 205 mm. Call George, 277-0021. 
'75 175 Honda. Excellent condition. $500. Terry. See at 818 Blaine. 
'68 Plymouth Fury 111. 58,000 miles. New tires since June, good cond. $595. 
Bed -Queen size -$75. Coffee table, $15. Stroller, $5. Car seat $12. All items like new. 272-9193. 
Army ROTC uniform and equipment -great shape. Reasonable price. 289-8029. 
1969 Olds 442 convt (blue). $1100. Contact 283-6162 or 272-5498 (after 4 pml. 
NOTICES Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Friday at 4:40. Call Tom Boyer, 272-1807. 
Money? Morissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 ­12:15. 
Navajo squash blossoms, made out of Merenci turquoise. Call 234-5646. 
N. E. Day Care may fit your needs. Students, faculty, or otherwise. Call 233-2233, 233-3865. 
24 hr TV repair. Color TV's $60 and up. 282-1955. 
Bilbo's Birthday . Sept 22. Organizing now for suitable celebration. Call 6246, 11 . midnight. 
Handmade Indian turquoise iewelry from the Southwest. Rings, bracelets, earrings, and accessories. All very reasonably priced. 287-0076 after 7. 
THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE 12:15-5:00 MWF AND 
11:00 · 1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TT. THE TICKET OFFICE IS LOCATED ON THE SOUTH END OF THE SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE (ABOVE THE HUDDLE). VAN MORRISON AND SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE. 
Experienced typist w(ll do: Term papers, manuscripts. Call Jane, 233-5332. 
Richard Brautigan's latest novel, Hawkline Monster, now in stock at Pandora's Books. 60.2 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
Residents of Stoneridge and Campus View: if you are interested in playing on our interhall hockey team this year, call Cliff or Pete at 272-9895, or stop bY 18155 Stoneridge South Drive, Apt. A (after 6:00), by Thursday, Sept 12. 
and Special Guest 
Dave Loggins 
Sunday Sept. 15 ·· 7:30 P.M. 
Athletic and 
Convocation Center
NOTRE DAME 
PERSONALS Father T: We have your name and 9 signs. Escape is out. The Keenan Exiles 
Come one, come all, to the fabulous FARLEY SORIN SQUARE DANCE. Friday 13, Bookstore basketball 
courts. 
COME AND PRANCE IN YOUR FANCY PANTS AT FRIDAY'S SQUARE DANCE. 
Candace Bergen: 
Keep smiling. Very pretty. 
JLS. 
The fetal pigs of America 
wish  to  commend  Tom  
Klein  on  his  switch  from  
pre-med  to  accounting.  

Better you should butcher someone's financial staten ents than us. 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Van Morrison. Send to J. Geils B0nrl Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, lncY.~n}-!.OJ~1§~ Enclose self­addressed· stamp~d envelope. 
Other Democrats seemed incredulous. Sen. Philip A. Hart, D-Mich., said Ford should be thinking about revoking the Nixon pardon instead of extend­ing pardons further. Sen. Frank Moss, D-Utah, said he found it "hard to believe" that Water­gate pardons would be under consideration. 
Sen. John Tower of Texas, the Republican Policy Commit­tee chairman, declined to say what he thought of the new pardon prospect. "In the light of tlhe President's pardon, he said, "it was probably a natural consequence that these other cases would be con­sidered." 
Before he had heard of the White House announcement, Senate Republit!an Leader Hugltl Scott of Pennsylvaniasaid he would not want "anything said or done that would interfere with the pending trials," although Ford might properly consider pardons when the trials had run their course. 

·.:··············A···N···v··o···~·~·.·E···············:: 
~ 
:. • STILL 1 • :. • 
.. NTER~ESTED : • IN STUDENT UNION :• :• REFRIGERATORS •: : •
.:CQW\E TO STEPAN CENTER : : FRIDAY SEPT. 13 : 
Brooke urges: 12:00 -4:00 : cessation of : small $45.00 : 
-. 
Ticket Prices: 

Bleachers ___________ $4,80 Lower Arena ____ ---__ $~00 
Loge _________ ----__ Sl\0·0 
Platform _----------_S&OO Floor Seats-_-------_ SS.O·O 

Tickets On Sale: 
Gate 10 Ticket Office, Student Union Ticket Office (3rd Floor Lafortune), Robertson's, St. Joe Bank & Branches, First Bank Downtown, Elkhart Truth. 
__8__ the Observer WednesdaY, September 11, 1974 
Women athletes attaining club status in three sports 
by Mary Fran Hayes 
Notre Dame women are seeking recognition of their athletic abilities by establishing basketball, tennis and fencing as official Notre Dame club sports. 
Sally Smith, Lyons Hall senior, and Mary Clemency, Farley Hall junior, last year felt that the en­thusiasm for women's interhall basketball was strong enough to attempt its establishment as a club sport. Smith and Clemency, after corresponding with Napolitano, director of club sports, learned that Jeanne Earley, a graduate student. was interested in par­ticipating in women's sports at Notre Dame. Earley has a physical 
education  degree  from  Indiana  
University.  
As  a  result  of  the  work  of  

Clemency, Early and Smith, the basketball club seems to be well under way. Sunday, Sept. 15 at 8 
P.M. in Farley Hall Chapel, an organizational meeting will be held for all women interested the basketball team. Earley expects that 100 women will attend the meeting. "I would like to keep as many women as possible. I would break the group into as many teams as facilities would allow. Since this is our first year I do not 
want to overextend ourselves. Therefore I wish to schedule six or eight games with the schools in 
Indiana, Michigan, and Illinois." Earley tentatively sets tryouts for December and the games for February and March. "Practices should be five days a week from 4:30p.m. to 6:00p.m." anticipates Earley. "I would like to see a Sport's Day, similar to the one at Indiana University. Four or five schools would come to Notre Dame and would play short games. I feel that a Sport's Day would get the basketball team known," adds 
Earley. 
After proving last Spring that 

Piane arrives on ND cross-coWttry scene 
by Bob Kissel 
It was before most people were awake that a group of varsity cross-country runners finished their daily seven mile morning run. Not all in the group were student-athletes, for one runner was new assistant cross-country and track coach Joe Piane. 
Coach Piane attended Loras College in Dubuque, Iowa where he received his pachelor's degree in business administration. When not studying and enjoying college life, Piane found enough time to run cross-country in the fall and the half-mile in the spring. 
"When I was a freshman at Loras, my running career was greatly influenced by Coach Faley," remarked Coach Piane. "Faley, then head track coach at Loras, told me he did not want me running unless I could handle the studies while out for the team." 
Joe Piane went on to a successful collegiate running career, cap­taining the Loras cross-country team his senior year. His times did not put in world class level, but he was consistenly a strong, competitive runner, the type of runner that many times becomes a good coach. 
There is much more to Joe Piane than his running excellence. Following graduation from Loras, Joe Piane spent the next three years in the Peace Corps. "The Peace Corps seemed to me to be an interesting way to do my small part in helping humanity," ex­plained Piane. 

"Notre Dame is an amazing campus tn its amount of friend­ship. There always seems to be people v. 10 are ready to sit down and talk I also find the at­mosphere around here electric, and this along with the friendliness is a real plus to anyone." 
"Notrt> Dame's athletic department has always had a fine reputation," remarked Coach Piane. "Although track and corss­country are minor sports here at Notre Dame and in the Midwest, I believe they have great potential to become stronger now that we have two coaches to split the duties.'' 
Coach Joe Piane is one of those individuals who make Notre Dame a special place, but rarely heard about. Whether as a coach or as a human being, Joe Piane always has plenty of time to sit down and talk. One can't help but respect and work for a man like Joe Piane. 
"My first year was in Peru where I managed the business end of agricultural co-ops," added Coach Piane. "My assignment in the second and third years was coaching track in Morocco on the regional and national levels. The two years in Morocco gave me a chance to try out the coaching end of athletics. I was pleased that several of my runners competed in the Munich Olympics and the World International Cross-Country meet for Morocco." 
Joe's Peace Corps experiences have been enlightening to his personal outlook. "Many of the people in Morocco had no concept of what or where the U.S. is," remarked Piane. "When I was leaving for home after my three years, some of the people asked if I was taking a train home. Generally, the people in Peace Corps have good relations with the native people, even in a strong Arab state like Morocco." 
Piane's first year in Peru was a time of realization how much athletics, especially running meant to him. "I was away from running for almost a year in Peru," commented the new coach, "and it was there that I decided to eventually· pursue a master's degree in physical education and also hopefully in coaching." 
"Coach Faley had a great positive influence on me, in terms of running, coaching, and my master's degree from Western Illinois. My coaching philosphy is much like Faley's, the individual should be dedicated to the point of self-discipline and self-motivation. A kid who runs 90-100 miles per week has got motivation, whether it's from a desire toe to run well, peer recognition, or scholarship." 
"I believe the only way to ap­proach an athlete is as an in­dividual. In this way the coach­athlete distinction is more like two people working together for one common goal," explained Piane. 
Although Coach Piane is a relative newcomer to Notre Dame, he has heard of the legends of du Lac. "I came through Catholic education in grammar and high school in the Chicago area--so NO is hardly foreign," added Piane. 

Notre Dame Women could support 
a tennis team, Notre Dame 
students, Betsy Fallon and Jane 
Lammers with Professor Carole 
Moore, this yearestablished · tennis 
as an official club sport. 
TheWomen's Tennis Team with 
Ms. Moore as coach, held tryouts 
on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 8 & 
9. 33 Women participated in the tournament with a consolation round. From this Tournament 13 women were chosen for the Club; Betsy Fallon, Jane Lammers, Pam Leary, Marianne Murphy, Carol Guckert, Carol Simons, Ann Colbert, Mary Kay Baty, Ann Gardiner, Sue Grace, Debbie Grady, Carolyn Schiff elf, Carmel Burke. The team has two assistant coaches, John Donahue and Tom Haywood, as well as a team manager, Andrea Smith. 
Practices are held Monday thru Friday from 5:45 to 6:45p.m. The season opener is an away match against Purdue on Sept. 21. Other opponents will be Northwestern, DePauw, Ball State, Valparaise and St. Mary's. 
The women's fencing team, a club sport for four years, has their schedule ready for the new season. Practices began Monday, Sept. 9 and the season opens against Tri State on Jan. 17. Other teams will be from Michigan, Indiana and Ohio with possible the addition of 
Sailors meet 

The Notre Dame Sailing Team, the oldest minor sport on campus, is in its 27th year of operation. Last spring, the team was one of the best in the Midwest. The team finished second in the Midwest Championships, obtaining the right to represent the Midwest in the North American Dinghy Championships, held in Boston. 
By having both-a club and a team structure, the needs of not only those who like to race but those who also like to pleasure sail are being fulfilled. Lessons are given for the new sailors on every available day, at their own con­venience. This is a very important point because you do not have to know how to sail to join, club members will gladly teach you. The team is scheduled for many intercollegiate regattas this fall, and everyone is invited to attend them. Sailing is a co-ed sport anet there are no limitations on fresh­
man or girls bein~ able to sail. The present fleet includes 9 thirteen foot high performance sloops known as Flying .·Juniors. The boats are available to mem­bers and guests on weekdays and weekends on ..St. Joes Lake and lessons will always be available. This Wednesday is the newcomers meeting and all are invited, just come and visit. Find out what sailing is all about. The meeting will be held in Rm. 204 of the Engineering Building at 6:30p.m.. All faculty and students of Notre Dme and St. Mary's are invited to attend. 

Jane Lammas showing her backhand form at the recent Women's 
Tournament. 
an East Coast team. The women's practices are held with the male varsity practice, with coaches DeCicio, Hosinski and Tayler sharing the coaching duties. Practices are five days a week from 4 to 6 p.m. Three home matches are anticipated this year. 
The team members are: Cindy Rebholz <Captain), Sally Fisher, Kathy Valdiserri, Jane Bonivert, 
Sue Krakora and Ann Werner.. 
from both St. Mary's and Notre 
Dame. 

All three teams have been 
assured of the same treatment as 
the male club sports and all three 
teams hope to eventually attain 
varsity status. Carole Moore feels 
that the University will eventually 
accept about five women teams as 
varsity teams in order to complete 
their coeducation. 

DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. '7-l Gen'l Features Corp 
ACROSS 
1 Body in orbit 6 Former prize
fighter 10 Skillful 14 Circumvent 15 Arm bone 16 Tortosa's river 17 Monkey's cousin 18 Lease 19 Before long 20 Haul up and se­
cure with small 
rope: Naut. 21 Ave and aloha 23 Spirited horses 25 Hoffmann's 
works 26 Performed alone 28 Adhere 32 Covered part of 
a truck 35 Help36 Feather: Greek 37 One of the 
Adamses 40 Make a certain 
common error 41 Yield 42 Man's nickname 43 Suburb of 
London 44 Vapor 45 --Day saint 48 Ring barriers 
2 
14 
17 


50 Gravies 22 Quizzes 54 Leading force 24 Killed fi8 Breathing pore 27 Arab asset 
in plants 29 Turkey's neigh­59 Nutmegstate: bor:Var. 
Abbr. 30 Farm enclosure 60 Birds of prey :n Recognized61 Useful kitchen 32 Parts of trains 
device 33 Encourage62 -were (so to 34 Snack speak) 36 Liquid measures 63 Very soft 38 Security or 
mineral pledge 64 Swedish island 39 Knight's cover­65 Challenge ing 66 Court cry 40 Came in contact 67 Nourishes with 
DOWN 42 French explorer1 Gauls, Britons, 45 Allowable 
etc. margin2 Open to view 46 "-Eden" 3 Mrs. Eisenhower 47 Lustrous, dark­4 Draws out red mineral 5 Mollusk that 49 Camera product 
bores into wood 51 Blurs of light6 Town: Colloq. around an image7 Gave warning 52 Make corrections 8 Group of nine 53 Orange-red9 Badgerlike stones 
animal 54 Mackerel's 10 Stopped relative 11 Dark 55 Affectation 12 Fairy tale prince, 56 Star in Pegasus 
at times 57 U.S. Army13 Heavy weight awards 












