
------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Oa The lnslde 
Rockefeller's worth 
••.p.4 

Budget hearings 
... p.3 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 12 Friday, September 13, 1974 
For distribution 
Faculty Senate receives reports 
The Faculty Senate met Wednesday and approved reports concerning the University budget, religious preferences in employment and faculty appointments and promotions. 
At other Catholic schools 
Positions on sexuality compared 
by Ken Girouard Staff Reporter 

In light of the current controversy over the University's position on human sexuality, the Observer contacted several other major Catholic universities and colleges. The purpose of this poll was to examine Notre Dame's position on sexuality in relation to other educational institutions. 
An important finding of the poll is that none of the schools questioned had any written or explicit policy regarding sexual activity. It must be noted, however, 
'that all of them ban cohabitation to comply with state and federal laws. 
Georgetown 

At Georgetown University, there are no rules con­
trolling male-female relations, except one which 
prohibits cohabitation. For first-semester freshmen, 
there are parietal hours which are similar to those at 
Notre Dame. After the first semester, however, there 
are no visitation limits. 
The Board of Directors of Georgetown University 
issued a statement which prohibits students "to engage 
in immoral activities against the unmarried,'' but 
Thomas Ritz, Associate Dean for Resident Life, 
pointed out that this does not necessarily mean that 
sexual relations are involved. 
In regard to cohabitation, Ritz stated that it is vir­
tually impossible to prove that cohabitation is oc­
curring. "There is no way to ascertain if a girl has been 
in a room for a night or a week," he said. 
Marquette University 
Father Sauve, Director of Campus Ministry at 
Marquette University said that there are no rules or 
statements whatsoever on sexual conduct. "Since we 
subscribe to the Christian ethic, it's more of a common 
sense thing. We don't need any moral rules,'' he said. 
Marquette has two coeducational dorms, two female 
dorms, and one male hall. The visitation hours are 
between 4 p.m. and midnight on week nights, and 4 
p.m. and 1 a.m. on weekends. Fr. Sauve pointed out that these are merely for the order of the community and have nothing to do with sexual activity. 
University of Dayton 
Like the other institutions, the University of Dayton 
prohibits cohabitation. Their parietal hours are 
exactly the same as those at Notre Dame. 
Dayton's policy determining visitation hours is the 
"Escort Policy.'' Under this rule, every male visiting 
a female dormitory is required to be accompanied by a 
resident of that dormitory. This is to eliminate 
"prowling around," which often leads to theft of the 
residents' personal property. 
There is no written poliCy on the subject of human 
sexuality. Father Rupp, Director of Campus Ministry, commented, "We don't condone it and we don't con­, demn it. The only way a student gets in trouble is by violating the rights of others, such as kicking out a 
roommate for the weekend." 
Boston College Fr. Ed Hanrahan. Dean of Students at Boston 
College, said, ''we have no such rule. Generally, we are in compliance with the civil and federal code. Specifically, that means no cohabitation.'' 
Father Hanrahan explained that cohabitation was against the law and, as a result, Boston College prohibited it. He said that there is no written rule regarding sex. "Since we adopt the Catholic belief, its all rather implicit that we don't believe in pre-marital sex, but we don't have it written down as a rule." 
Boston College does have parietals. It also has a large number of apartments and modular homes for student housing. These could be classified as coeducational, but they are still completely private and assigned randomly. 
Stonehill College 
"The philosophy of our school says that we are dedicated to the development of an ethically sensitive person. It's impossible to dictate moral stands and achieve this," stated Mary Hurley, Assistant Dean of Stud~nts at Stonehill College. She said that although the school believes in the Christian moral system, there is nothing in writing about moral systems except for the basic college conduct guides. 
Parietals at Stonehill apply only to freshmen, allowing visitation til midnight during the week and on weekends. 
All schools polled treat violations on the hall judicial system level. Cases of greater magnitude then are directed to the Dean of Students Office. Every school official contacted also emphasized that there had been no major problems in the implementation of their respective conduct codes. 
by Theresa Stewart Staff Reporter 

Three committee reports scrutinizing the University budget, religious preferences in employment, and the faculty appointments and promotions process were approved for distribution by the Faculty Senate last Wednesday, Sept. 11. 
The Recent University Budgets Report charges that the surplus in the unrestricted fund declared by the ad­ministration is consistently incomplete. 'In the statement for 1972-73,' for example, the report reads, 'the declared surplus in the unrestricted fund was only $339,000. In fact, however, $1,400,000 in unrestricted gifts were transferred out of unrestricted current funds into restricted current funds.' 
The Legal Implications of Religious Preference in Employment Report con­cludes that the policies described in the University's tentative COUP Report are in direct conflict with a federal executive order and could jeopardize the Univer­sity's present federal contracts. 
The report presented by the Committee on the Appointments and Promotions Process shows that nearly all of the committee's recommendations for new appointments and tenure have been upheld by the administration. The report also points out, however, that 'the question confronting the Faculty Senate and the faculty at large is the relatively small number of tenure recommendations overturned without adequate explanation.' 
The Committee on Recent University Budgets, headed by Professor Irwin Press, has examined the University's recent financial statements in an effort to determine how resources have been employed. It has found that the ad­ministration focuses upon the unrestricted fund balance each year to determine whether or not money has been made. 
The committee's report claims that this procedure is 'somewhat misleading' due to the administration's policy of transferring large sums out of the unrestricted current fund into restricted funds. 'This sort of discretionary surplus,' the report states, 'has ranged between $1,500,000 and $2,500,000 in each of the past several years.' 
The committee questions the priorities used in the distribution of funds by the University. Citing the 'deteriorating purchasing power of the salary of the average Notre Dame faculty member over the last four years,' the report investigates the possibility of a salary increase of 10 to 12 percent. 
The Committee on the Legal Im­plications of Religious Preference in Employment, headed by Professor Robert Vaso!i, has examined certain allegations reliited to religious discrimination on the part of the University in its recent decisions on hiring, tenure, promotions, and reappointments. 
To determine whether or no1t sufficient 
grounds exist in ~aw for such an inquiry, 
the committee had asked Professor 
Howard Glickstein and the staff of the 
Center for Civil Rights to prepare a 
memorandum concerning the legal 
ramifications of the intrusion of a religious 
factor into the University's employment 
policies. 
The Center concluded that the hiring 
policies outlined in the COUP Report do 
not violate Title VII of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964, but are contrary to Executive 
Order No. 11246, as amended. This 
executive order requires any institution 
contracting with the federal government 
to pledge that it does not discriminate in 
employment on the basis of race, color, 
religion, national origin, or sex. 
The executive order contains no 
exemption for the use of religious 
J , 
proference in the employment practices of religious institutions. Consequently, in the opinion of the Center's memorandum, 'persistence of this policy on the part of the University could jeopardize the Univer­sity's present federal contracts and could result in its being barred from further federal contracting.' In other words, federal funding could be withdrawn. 
The report points out, however, that 'it remains to be seen whether federal en­forcement agencies and officials will insist upon a fuller compliance with the language of the executive order.' & yet there appears to be no test case in this area regardine religious discrimination. 
Dr. James Lyon was opposed to distributing the committee's report. 'It will only get us into the problematic relationship of church and state,' he said. 'There are no viable possibilities open to the University for a solution,' Lyon claimed. 
Dr. Julian Pleasants at last Wed­nesday's Senate meeting argued against the importance of having a religious faculty. 'Since dialogue concerning religion does not happen accidently, what i& the use of having an articulate religious faculty?' he asked. Pleasants suggested a program of structured dialogue. 
(continued on page 2) 
the observer 

Friday, September 13, 1974 


warld 
briefs 
SAN CLEMENTE, CALIF.(UPI) -Reports persist that former President Richar Nixon may be ailing , David Eisenhower has described his father-in-law as depressed, adding that his left leg, stricken with the blood disease phlebitis, has swollen to twice its normal size. A medical source says doctors have asked Nixon to seek hospital treatment , but he has refused. 
ETHIOPIA (UPI) -Lt. Gen. Aman Michael Andom takes over as Ethiopia's military strongman, capping a seven-month gradual coup that began with barracks rumbling and ended with the ouster of Emperor Haile Selassie. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-President Ford and the U.S. Senate have agreed on a joint policy regarding Watergate defendants: There will be no pardon for anyone who has not come to trial. 
BOSTON (UPI) -Schools official expect absenteeism to be as high as 33 per cent city wide and 95 per cent among whites in some areas for the second day of Boston's court-ordered desegregation. 
an campus taday 
friday, september 13, 1974 5-9 pm entertainment peter lind hayes show, dinner 5-8 pm, show B· 9pm. university club for members and guests both $3.95 5 pm evensong vespers log chapel 5 pm mass and supper everyone welcome bulla shed 8 & 10 pm film 'easy rider' sponsored by smc social commission carroll hall of madeleva memorial 9 pm-1 am coffeehouse spook out concerts-frank martin, steve paspek, dennis klee, pete snake. candy apples $.20 st. mary's 8-12 pm square dance sorln-farley sponsered bookstore b-ball courts free 
saturday, september 14, 1974 6:30pm film 'abhlman' sponsored by nd Italian assc. lib. aud. free 8 & 10 pm film 'easy rider' sponsored by smc social commission carroll hall of madeleva memorial 
sunday, september 15, 1974 
4:30 pm evensong vespers lady chapel 7:30pm concert van morrison and dave Ioggins ... ace $-4,5,6100 
dailuy 12-9 pm art exhibit 'neon & drawings'-tom scarff moreau gallery 12-9 pm art exhibit 'recent photographs'.faye serlo photo gallery 
12-9 pm art exhibit 'drawings and palntlngs'-sarlta levin little theatre 10-5pm art exhibit pre-colombian art, contemporary graphics, art faculty & masterpieces from permanent coli. nd art gallery 
1-5 pm sun. 

Donations to be collected 
by Mark Jahne Staff Reporter 

Collections to help feed starving people around the world will be made daily outside of the North and South Dining Hall, beginning Sunday, September 15, and con­tinuing throughout the school year. 
Donations can be made during 
lunch at lines E and F of the North 
Dining Hall, and during dinner at 
the South Dining Hall entrance. 
The money collected will be distributed equally among CARE, UNICEF and the Catholic Relief Services. It will be used primarily to feed those suffering from hunger in West Africa and Bangia Desh. 
Last year the Notre Dame community contributed $2,300 to such charities. 
The Ollterver Is publllhed ct.lly during th~ colleg~ semeeter except vacatlonl bv the stUCMnh of tt1e University ot Notre Dame end St. M41ry's Colleoe. Subecrlptlonl may be purchesed lor II per s~nter (S14 per year) from The Ollterver Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second CIIIH postage paid, Notre Dam•• Ind. 
46556. 

Budget critiques submitted 
(continued from page 1) 

The Committee on the Ap­pointments and Promotions Process, headed by Professor James Cushing, contacted all the department chairmen in the University and talked with members of several departmental committees to determine how often and by whom CAP (Com­mittee on Appointments and Promotions) recommendations had been overturned in the last three years. It also sought to learn whether the committees had received adequate explanations in such cases and 'to detail the specifics of a controversial ap­pointment of a department chairman last spring.' 
The CAP report shows that 109 out of 114 of the committee's positive recommendations for new appointments have been upheld by the administration, as have 54 of the 75 unanimous or strong positive CAP recommendations for promotion and tenure. 
The committee, however, did express its concern about the relatively small number of CAP tenure recommendations over­turned 'without adequate ex­planation to the satisfaction of some committee members.' 
Cushing announced that the reports of all three committees will be distributed to all faculty members in a week or two. He stressed the need for discussion about them among the faculty in in order to decide what should be done on the issues raised. These suggestions will be discussed at the next Senate meeting, Oct. 1. 
Four additional committees are preparing reports for future presentation: the Liaison Com­mittee to the Board of Trustees. the Budget Review Committee, the Committee on Collective Bargaining and the Committee on the Status of the Faculty. 



Coffeehouse opens tonight 
by Bill Gonzenbach 
Staff Reporter 

Nazz, the new stuaent cof­feehouse, opE!ns tonight in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. The coffeehouse is free and is open on Friday and Sturday nights from 9:30 to 1:30. 
"Folk, rock, and jazz music will be performed," said Ralph Pen­nino, the coffeehouse organizer,' "and soda, cider and cheese and crackers will be sold for a very small charge." 
Pennino said the coffeehouse is operating on a trial basis for six weeks. "If everything runs well we will continue to be open on Friday and Saturday nights and we will attempt to open on Friday and Saturday nights and we will at­tempt to open the coffeehouse on Wednesday nights from 10:00 to 
Erratum 

The article about renovation in 
the Placement Bureau in 
yesterday's Observer gave an 
incorrect date for the expected 
completion of the renovation. 

Instead of the date October 23 give in the article, the Placement Bureau renovation is expected to be completed on September 23. Placement Director Richard Willemin said that he will be completely settled in the offices by October 20 in time for the Open House scheduled the week of October 23. 
FRESHMEN: Pick Up Their Freshman Registers 


TODAY 
FROM 2·4:30P.M. In The LaFortune Ballroom 
12:00." said Pennino. 
In the future the Nazz organizer that people will enjoy the music, hopes to show films such as the snacks and candle-lit tables and Marx Brothers movies and to get that they will support the cof­performers from South Bend and feehouse so that it will become a Chicago to play at the coffeehouse. permanent institution." 
Pennino also wants to have an Tonight there will be four amateur show where students musical performances. The first could sing, act or do im­group consists of Jim Ernzen, personatins. Chuck Beck, and Marylu Iredale 
"There is no place on campus to and the second group is comprised take a date after a film or a party," of Bill and Mike Blanford, J. said Pennino, and we hope to Steinman, and John Begert. John provide such a place at a Salverson and Dave Shaheen will reasonable price -free. We hope give solo guitar performances. 




TUTORING WANTS YOU 
SIGN UP NOW. 
CALL: TOIV\ 8437 DC 1739 EILEEN 4306 DAN 282·1784 

3 


Hesburgh to speak at SLC meeting 
sexuality rule,Fianagan said that The University's directive to ban though, that the matter would SLC would take an extensive look
By Fred Herbst Staff Reporter the issue would be raised early in alcohol also drew comment as the more than likely be brought before at the parietal regulations of the 
the semester. He also noted that chairman was unable to say in the Commission at their next University, in order to determine if he anticipates an attempt to what manner the SLC would meeting. "they represented what they wereSLC Chairman Frank Flanagan liberalize the rule. proach the directive. .He Flanagan mentioned that the originally intended to represent."
yesterday set Monday, September 


16 as the date for the first business meeting of the Commission. Highlighting the agenda for r Monday night's meeting will be an address by the University's President, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
Also during the meeting, which Flanagan termed as "semi­organizational", the Commission will receive reports from each of its five standing committees: the Planning and Policy Committee; the Off-Campus Committee, the Campus Life Committee; the Rules Committee; and the Steering Committee. 
The Chairman noted that the University's sexuality rule and directive on alcohol are his "number one and two priorities" for the year, but stated that they would probably not be discussed at the upcoming meeticg. 
SLC Chairman Frank Flanagan hopes to 'liberalize' the Univer-Mitc~ell a;gued that the former
Discussing the University's 
sity's sexuality rule. president s accept~nce ~f the 
pardon would lead JUrors m the cover-up case to believe thatTo allot club funds because he is guilty, his 
subordinates -who were "act­
ing in his interest" -also are 
guilty. 
• 
"The inequity is pat'tieul&ry offensive to the American concept of equal justice in this by John DeCoursey 

Budget hearings planned 
·case where, for no legally Staff Reporter 
1cognizable reason, one co­
I 
'1 

conspirator, Richard N.ixon, is The Board of Commissioners 
i permitted to go free while other will hold its annual budget 
·~ 

:co-conspirators, who were hearings Sunday, September 22, 
'subordinates to Mr. Nixon and starting at 6 p.m. 
'acting in his interest, on his All clubs and organizations on 
)behalf, and in concert with him campus applying for funds must 
·are required to stand trial for turn in a brief statement to the 
those actions," the brief said. Student Government Office no 
It added that "the extremely later than 5 p.m. Tuesday, Sep­
prejudicial effect of the pardon tember 17. 
and the publicity generated by The written statement should 
. it (makes) a fair trial ... no 

include an explanation of the clubs function and some of the major 

SUNDAY MASSES
activities in which it participates. The statement should also outline 
lMain Church)

the club's major income and ex­
penditures for the past year and its 
proposed budget for the 1974-75 
school year. 
The budget hearings will provide 
an opportunity for the club to give 
a personal presentation of its 
proposed budget, and allow the 
commissioners to ask any 
questions about it. All presen­
tations will be limited to ten 
minutes. 
Art depart:n:ent 
5: 15 Sat Fr. Robert Griffin C. S.C.

Mike Schnaus: 'The money which we allocate comes from the 
9:30 Sun Rev. Richard Conv'ers c.s.c. 

OfferS danCe COUfSe budget a~lotment said, "The 
money which we allocate, comes by Annette Buzinski from the $14.00 Student Activities Staff Reporter 
The SMC-ND Fine Arts depart­ment has introduced a course in student dance in response to a strong student and departmental interest. The program, initiated this semester, is a one-credit hour course open to all interested students. 
Dr. Reginald •Bain, sponsor of the program, stated that it will be a nice complement to the current SMC-ND Fine Arts program and is one feature of the fine arts not previously included, but definitely needed. He also noted that the course is 'integrated into the academic program.' 
Presently, three dance classes are being offered: modern ballet; beginning ballet; and intermediate ballet, each of which is filled. The class is conducted on the 
$14.00 Student Activities Bill.' 
Each club will be notified of its allotment a few days after the meeting. Any organization that feels it deserves more may submit a complaint to the Student Government Office before 5 p.m., September 30. The appeal will then go before the Board of Commissioners for a final decision. 
Student Government Treasurer Mike Schnaus, discussing the total . 
~h.. 
tchell says lair trial impossible 
By JANE DENISON 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Ar­guing that Richard M. Nixon "unavoidably implied" his own guilt in the Watergate scandal by accepting a pardon, former Attorney General John N. Mitchell moved Thursday for dismissal of his conspiracy indictment because the publici­

. ty now makes a fair trial impossible. .••. , 1:, In a legal brief filed with U.S.
• · S District Judge John J. Sirica, 
longer possible in this case.'' 
"By accepting the pardon, Richard Nixon has unavoidably implied that he had engaged in certain illegal acts which are inextricably related to the actions underlying the charges against the defendant Mitch­ell," the brief said. 
''The pardoning of Richard Nixon, who has been identified as a co-conspirator, undoubted­ly leaves the average citizen and potential juror with the impression that he was guilty of certain illegalities and that his subordinates, the defendants at the bar, are equally guilty." 
Mitchell is scheduled to go on trial for the cover-up conspira­cy Sept. 30 along with other former aides H.R. Haldeman, John D. Ehrlichman, Gordon C. Strachan, Robert C. Mardian and Kenneth W. Parkinson. The same grand jury that indicted them in March named Nixon a co-conspirator. 
Mitchell also filed a motion asking for an indefinite post­ponement of the trial' due to the heavy publicity over the Nixon pardon in the event Sirica refuses to dismiss the indict­ment. 
"The President of the United States, speaking through his press secretary, has now 
(continued on page 9) 
10:45 Sm Rev. David Burrell C.S. C.

bill. We don't know exactly how 
12:15Sun Rev. Bill Toohey C.S.C. 

much money this will amount to since the fee is optional, but we expect to have a budget of about 
"Evensong" vespers at 4:30pm Sunday Lady Chapel

$80,000 to $85,000. "Last year, we had $83,000 to 
Monday through Friday at 5:00pm Log Chapel

work with, but we had to pay off a debt of $2,500 carried over from the year before," Schnaus explained. "Consequently, we budgeted $80,000 to various clubs and organizations last year. The main recipients were Student Union, Student Government, the Halls, and A111 Tostal." 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Stage and 
COME TO TI-E BUlLA SHED
an accompanist from the Music Department is assigned to each 

AN> BRING A fRIEN>
class. Bain observed it is too early to decide what must be done to im­
mass & dinner every friday 5 pm 
/ ' I; • I

prov:~, t~e program. 
.. ·.• ·''.' . '" ­
the ObServer Friday, September 13, 1974 
Considerably below estimates 
Rockyreportedly worth 33 million 
WASHIN<;TON <UPI) ·-Vice­Presidential nominee Nelson A. Rockefeller is worth $33 million-­considerably below previous estimates, some of which put Rockefeller fortune as high as $500 million--the Washington Post reported in its Friday edition. 
Rockefeller filed the voluminous statements of his wealth with the House .Judiciary and Senate Rules Committees as part of the preparation for his confirmation hearings. The House committee said Thursday it could not possibly finish its investigation of Hockefeller until after the November £>lections. 
The Post. quoting unidentified sources, said that the $33 million figure might be revised upward soon because some of the former New York governor's assets ap­parently had been listed at their value w~en first acquire rather· than thetr present market value. 
It is believed that Rockefeller has put considerable amount of his fortune in trust for his six children and wife 'Happy.' 
In New York, Rockefeller's press secretary Hugh Marrow refused to either confirm or deny the Post story. Morrow .said Rockefeller would withold a public statement on his net worth until the beginning of his confirmation hearings Sept.23. 
The Post reported that Hockefeller had assets totaling $37 million and debts of $4 million. 
His principle holdings were listed as $13 million in stocks and 

I don't know how to square dance, but I'd like to see one. Where will the square dance be held this Friday? 
The square dance will be behind the Book Store on Friday night from 8-12. In case of inclement weather, it will be held in Stepan Center. You don't necessarily need to know how to square dance to enjoy one, however it isn't hard to pick up. So if you come early, you may be "swinging yer pardner" by the third dance. 
Is it mandatory for a student salesman to carry a card giving him authorization from the University? 
To provide protection for the students against"burn" salesmen, the University requires an authorization card. For further information you can talk to Fr. David Schlaver at 7308. 
When will the mt>al tickets to eat at St. Mary's be in? 
The Co-ex tickets have already come in and should be in the hands of your hall president. The first day for scheduled use is September 12. 
What can we do about our hall Coke machine? lt works on occasion but it always keeps the money! 
The University's Vending Service now has telephone service 24 hours a day. You can contact them at any time now about problems. Ask for Dean Winter, manager of vending at 8888, during the day. At night leave your name, address, amount lost, and location of the machine with the operator or answering service. Refunds will be made promptly by the routeman during his next 
classes.'
o;ervice call. 

AIESEC begins job placement service for foreign students 
by Joe Caverly 
Staff Reporter 

Members uf AIESEC, a program for foreign exchange students, met last night to begin this year's program of employing students from abroad. The group focused on training students to solicit local businesses for jobs for the ex­change students. 
Selling workers to companies i!O an essential part of AIESEe's program. Only by getting businesses to accept...-"l'oreign students as workers can they send American students abroad. 
AIESEC sends students from fifty-three countries into foreign lands to work in companies in Fields which will compliment their studies at home. It prepares students for international business, combining their theoretical experience from school with practical experience in a foreign business. 
The exchange program works on a one-to-one basis, which means students from this country cannot go abroad until positions from their forei!ln counteroarts are 
fo~dintbe United States.· Finding those positions is the responsibility of the solicitors. 
Tom Webber, who heads theAIESEC membership in this area, said that the South Bend Chamber of Commerce will be a key asset in this year's drive to find job openings. 'We have given them a list of prospective businesses and they are helping to revise our list as well as putting us in touch with many of the firms by means of a third party,' he ob­served. . 
Webber indicated thatAIESEC 1s 
$12.5 million in art. The Rockefeller collection which totals 1,500 works, is ~ostly in modern art and includes several Picassos. 
I 
The report said Rockefeller has 
$8 million in real estate, $2 rr..illion 
in boats and airplanes and $1 
million in 'furnishings'. 
The governor has five homes-a 
vacation retreat in Seal Harbor, 
Maine; a residence on the 3,000 
acre family estate overlooking the 
Hudson River; a 24 room duplex 
apartment in New York City; a 
ranch in Venezuela; and a mansion 
Garrett discusses 
proposed reforms 
by Marjorie Irr Staff Reporter 
Joanne Garrett, legislative 
commissioner of the St. Mary's 
S~udent Board of Governance, 
dtscussed proposed reforms . in 
SMC student government in a 
recent interview. 
'My primary concern is getting 
stu'dent government adjusted to 
the student and the needs of the 
student,' Garrett stated. 'Student 
government tends at times to be 
too policy-oriented and that's what 
needs to be changed.' 
Included in the planned reforms 
is a movement to get the judicial 
process closer to the students. 
'This year, decisions t~egarding 
quiet hours were made by sections 
instead of the hall as a whole,' 
Garrett stated. 'It seems that if a 
small group makes their own rules 
in a situation like this, they'll be 
followed more losely if the rules 
were imposed and enforced.' 
Class councils are also to be a new addition at SMC. It is hoped that the councils will bind the members of each class together, through their representatives.' In the past, primary emphasis was placed on hall unity. 

'Right now we're just getting the sophomore and junior councils started,' said Chris Albosta, Student Affairs Commissioner. 'We'd like to put together councils of twenty-five members each to help chair committees. When that's accomplished, we should see more union within the individual 
seeking new members but the organization's growth, at least in the Notre Dame area, will be controlled by a thorough screening process. Although the opportunity to travel abroad is a good stimulus for the program, Webber pointed out that travel is not the primeobjective.
Currently students from France, Germany, Ireland, Brazil,. and Africa are participating in the program, with still others scheduled to arrive from South 
America and Africa.. 
THE ROMA 
Your Host Frank Anastasio PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOO!:' 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of .~iver Bend Plaza
. "' ~ ." . . . . . 
•i•
•
• 
i• • 
i 
• 
• 
•
• • 

on Washington's posh Foxhall apparently did not include assets Road. Rockefeller holds jointly with his 
Rockefeller's financial report brothers or other holdings in trust showed that he had paid about $2 for his immediate family. million in taxes for each of the last The extent of the Rockefeller 
seven years, the Post said. fortune has been kept a closely The figures cited by the Post guarded secret in the past. 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS 'NITHOOT WHEELS? When In Neecjl Of A Quick Getaway, 
Call Lois At 



JORDAN FORD 
259-1981 STUDENT RATES: Rent A PINTO ·For Just 
$5/Day & SIMile (MIN. AGE 21) 

609 E. Jefferson, Mishawaka A Carpenter Without His Hammer­
-or a surgeon without his scalpel --is something like a student without his book. For books are the basic tools of the student's trade. Noth­ing has ever replaced the professor in the classroom, and ·nothing has ever re­placed the main tool of teach­ing and learning-the book. You may forget, but your books won't. At 4:00 a.m. be­fore your exams, your pro­fessors are getting their much needed rest. But your books are working with you -that is-if you have your own books. 
Presumably you are in col­lege because you want to learn. Your books are your tools. Don't be like the car­penter with a borrowed ham­mer who must finish his work at the convenience of 

JORDAN 

FORD 


the man who owns a ham­mer! 
Penny for penny, page for page, books are the best 
"buy" of your college career. We have then. Come inspect them, and buy your own books today. 
Notre Dame Hookstore 

iSHOW YOU'RE NO BUZZ..J•i COME TO THE NAZZ i• 
• 


GRAND OPENING i•
•
• 

'THE NAZZ' i• • 
A COFFEEHOUSE EXPERIENCE i 
• 

IN THE RATHSKELLAR ! 
(BASEMENT LAFORTUNE i• 
•

STUDENT CENTER) : 

TONIGHT 9:30 i• 

•
•
•
•
•
• 
. II.. -· ...• ·' ...• ·' .. •" ·' ·' ·' ,\-~,I ,\...II ' 
•
• 


---------------~--~~-------~ 
For Mrs. Kings DIJl"der 
Chenault given death sentence 
69 killed in Carolina je·t crash * BACKPAOalG GEAR
*MUNARI HIKllGBCXJI'S 

By WILLIAM COTTERELL 
ATLANTA (UPI) -Marcus Wayne Chenault, ranting he was "ordered here by my master... and my God," drew a conviction and the death sentence Thursday for the fatal 
shooting of Mrs. King Sr., and a  Martin church  Luther deacon  
June 30.  

The 23-year-old black man, who pleaded insanity, clowned throughout his four-day trial and at one point acted out his death in the electric chair. 
A jury of eight whites and four blacks deliberated about 70 
Dr. Cannon announces changesr~~o~~e~.l~nv~ce~a:~:n~p~~~
King was slain by an assassin 

in SMC student affairs office :o:~:·.~~~ t;:~e~ed:~~.h~ 
by Cathy Busto 
Staff Reporter 
Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, SMC Vice-President of Student Affairs, outlined yesterday the changes which have taken place in the office of Student Affairs. "We have changed the Dean of Students title to Assistant to Vice-President for Student Affairs. Secondly, we have hired an assistant to the director of counseling who will be in charge of the resident advisor program,' Cannon said. 
We are not suspending any rule" she explained. "We are trying to put more responsibility on the students. We hope that students working together will create an environment where students can meet their responsibilities as students." 
By JERRY MITCHELL 
CHARLOTTE, N. C. <UPI) A stewardess who survived the crash of an Eastern Airlines jet which killed 69 people said Thursday the crash occurred with such suddenness there was no outcry aboard the plane. 
"My first impression was that the landing gear had failed," said Colette Watson. "I saw flames and I knew we had crashed. My first thought was to do everything I could to get the people out. But the flames were right in front of me. · 
"There was never a cry on the airplane." 
As a lO-man investigative team worked to determine the cause of the crash, doctors used dental and other medical recoqls to attempt to identify the victims, most of whose bodies were burned beyond recognition. 
Mecklenburg County Medical Examiner Dr. Hobart Wood said a preliminary investigation indicated most of the victims died as a result of violent impact, fire or carbon monox­ide asphyxiation. 
A team of Federal Aviation 
and safety officials worked 
Thursday to determine what 
caused the plane to crash irito a 

Erratum 
The headline of one of yesterday's observer articles incorrectly identified Ms. Stevie Wernig as the Vice President for Student Affairs at St. Mary's. Ms. Wernig is the assistant to the Vice President for Student Affairs. We regret this error. 
." .... ,· 

'The reason Student Affairs has dispensed with the dean of students title is that in the kind of educational concept being developed at St. Mary's, the title is obsolete, Cannon said. The new title gives a greater flexibility to the position since all areas which emanate from the office will be coordinated to provide wellrounded educational programs outside of classrooms,' she con­tinued. 
Dale Ritchie, Assistant to the Director of Counseling, will spearhead the program. Dr. Suzanne Areson, Director of Counseling, will ork with Ritchie to develop outreach programs within the halls. The outreach program is designed to make the ra's more availabel within the residence halts. 
minutes in finding Chenault guilty of the slaving of Mrs. King and Deaco~ Edward Boykin at Ebenezer Baptist Church. It is the same church in which Mrs. King's son, the late civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., once served as pastor. King also was killed by an assassin. 
Chenault bowed from the waist to the jury from his chair in the courtroom when he heard the death sentence read. His parents, Mr. and Mrs. Marcus Wayne Chenault Sr., of Dayton, Ohio, wept silently. 
fog-enshrouded cornfield and burn three miles short of Douglas Airport Wednesday morning on a flight from Charleston, S.C. to Charlotte. 
'"It's in the nitty gritty stage now,'' said Ed Slartery, public affairs director for the National Transportation Safety Board. 
He said it likely would be months before a decision on the probable cause of the crash would be released to the public. 
-Five of the injured remamed 
hospitalized at Charlotte Memorial 
Hospital Thursday, including three 
burn victims who were listed in 
critical condition. The other seven 
passengers who were hurt were 
transferred to hospitals in South 
Carolina. 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
* 
PRESENTS; 
* 

CHEYENNE SOCIAL CLUB 


Adm. $1.00 TONIGHT AND SATURDAY 
6 8 10 12 
.., ... 

In addition to the murder counts, the jury also convicted 
Chenault  on  one  count  of  
aggravated  assault  and  two  of  
carrying  concealed  weapons.  It  

took them 70 minutes to arrive at the guilty verdict, and about an hour and 45 minutes to decide on the death penalty. 
Standing before Fulton Su­perior Court Judge Luther Alverson, Chenault smiled a,s he was sentenced to die Nov. 8 in the electric chair at the State Prison at Reidsville. However, there is an automatic appeal for c:ondemned prisoners and 




SUMMER CLEARANCE 
20%-50% OFF ON AI..L S UM/\1\ER 1\1\ERCI-W-IlSE UNTIL SEPTENBER 16 

In the MlNi-MALL at TOWN & COUNTRY Shopping Center 
l * TENNIS EQUIPMENT 

Dr. Mary Alice Cannon 
* 10 SPEEDS 
*TENNIS APPAREL 

Mrs. Watson, a 26-year-old honey 
blonde, walked away from the SUPER SPECIAL 
crash with only scratches. only"I think my first real feeling was 
$130 CllESENT 10 -SPEED

that 71 persons were dying and 
$99

there was nothing I could do," she said. She said flames kept her,...-------------------------. 
from reaching the first class
section to check on the passengers. 
"The flames were right in front of me," she said. "One passenger was standing in front of me. He and I were the only two to get out." 
She and the passenger' whose 
name she did not know, managed to pull the injured co-pilot, James Daniels, Jr., through the cockpit window. She said Daniels, with injuries to both legs and the head, was "delirious" but kept mum­bling to "get the people out." 
there have been no executions in Georgia in about seven years. 
Chenault, who also received a 10-year sentence for assult in wounding a woman during an unprovoked shooting spree at the church and 12 months each on the weapons charges, said only: "My name is Servant Jacob. I was ordered here by my master, my father and my god." 
His attorneys, who ~mitted he fired the deadly shots, had claimed he was insane at the time. 
Chenault's court appointed 
Sunshine Promotions Presents

v M •

an Orrison 
a n d T h e c a Ie d 0 n i a EX p r e 5 s 

and Special Guest 
Dave Loggins 
Sunday Sept. 15 -7:30 P.M. 
Athletic and 
Convocation Center


NOTRE DAME 
they were here, they'd say 'you will not kill anyone in my name'." 
During Bacote's argument against the death sentence, Chenault clutched the arms of his chair, stuck out his tongue and convulsed as though he were being electrocuted. Se­conds later, he smiled, flashed a V-for-victory sign and sat up. 
Again as District Attorney Lewis Slaton called for his execution, Chenault turned his thumbs down and shook his head. 
Slaton said "this society cannot afford this defendant. Send him to prison for what happened, and he'll find a weapon. Ladies and gentlemen, he has tasted blood and he'll kill again." 
Ticket Prices: 
Bleachers __________ .... $4.00 
Lower Are•---------S~O Loge ---------------SQG
Platfor• •____ ----___ SUO 
Floor Sells ___ --_____ S&iOO 
TICKETS ON SALE: Student Union ticket office 
12:15-5:00 today. Also at ACC Gate 10, 9-5 today and Saturday 
GOOD TICKETS ARE STILL AVAILABLF BOX OFFICE REOPENS AT 6:00 NIGHT OF CONCERT 








Right to life 

In pursuit of academia 
Editor, The Observer, 

I've been trying to come up with an alternative solution to our "alleged" problem concerning Dean's List students. It seems unfair to penalize students for being both intelligent and studious. Most schools take pride in the intellectual calibre of their student body but here it's somehow different. After effectively removing most social outlets on campus, increased diligence and a corresponding improvement in academic performance seems an inevitable result. It's interesting to note that the arrival of co-eds--usually a factor that undermines cumulative averages-­precluded the increase in overall performance. This is not surprising because the administration has chosen to barricade the girls' dorms, preventing the normal interchanges that serve to disrupt periods of study. 
If it is alarming that intelligent students, forced into scholarly pursuits by existing social conditions have been earning better grades, then let's choose a more effective way to deal with these reluctant over­achievers than raising their target. A shift from 3.25 to 
3.4 will aonly further fuel their zeal. Let's remove the barricades and allow our co-eds to experience the distractions those in the unlocked dorms have had to deal with for so long. Let's work for more social outlets to tempt the hard-core grade-grabber, therebysolving the real problems instead of just raising the standards. 
It's time the administration began coming up witn real solutions <like these) rather than raising larger obstacles for soon, all that was fun at Notre Dame will be gone and then what will we have? 
Ed Byrne 

Metmmrphosis 
Dear Editor, 

In the beginning of the school year I watched the freshmen entering the North Dining Hall for the first time, with unsure glances tand that hesitant movement usually reserved for debutantes. I offered consolement and encouragement to them all: to those in my section already anxious to return to family, to those who fumbled with Campus maps and long distance telephone numbers, and I cried for them as I watched them face the empty mailbox. 
But no longer, sir. Now they are playing their sterios at full volume and pushing me aside in Dining Hall lunch-lines, and flashing those four digit checks from Mom and Dad before me, grinning. And I await the day they get trampled in a panty raid. 
Because some of us still struggle with homesickness, sir, and some are still poor, and without sterios. 
Harvey Ingram 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
SORRY, PHRGI?­


OH.. U/El.l.,!N
'IOV KNOW THE 
7ROl/BlE YOUR. 

rHAT CAse I 7HG W<1 CAN'T 110THa<.'S HAO 
Gflt5S Iil. Jl/ST •peapu? 
J 
.1/C(.EPT HfR. PAY!N6 HGR 8/U.S 

CHA/?6! IT 7lJ WHAT d CHARGe tvtR SINCE SHE 
THe PEOPlE. fflJPUP ? !JECAME A RGR/6EE 
I I 


The April 24th speech in Denver by Rev. Theodore M. 
Hesburgh, President of Notre Dame, covered many 
issues on the subject of 'Where is the Church Going?' 
Unfortunately the media tended to emphasize and 
sensationalize the comparatively brief comments he 
made on the subject of abortion. The Chicago Sun­
Times, for instance, headlined the story, 'Hesburgh 
hits 'mindless' tactics of some abortion foes.' The 
story led off by saying, 'The president of the University 
of Notre Dame Wednesday night characterized some 
Catholic anti-abortionists as 'mindless and crude 
zealots.' In the next paragraph, it noted that Father 
Hesburgh supported the Church's stand on abortion but 
that he 'said opponents of abortion should shun the 
practice of 'calling the opposition murderers." 
<Chicago Sun-Times, April 25, 1974, p. 5, col. 1) 
Father Hesburgh's Denver comments on abortion raised a number of serious and probing questions. In this commentary, however, I am concerned primarily with the passage emphasized in the headline and opening paragraphs of the Chicago Sun-Times story. Father Hesburgh said: 
Finally, we must be effectively concerned and thoughtfully articulate about abortion, not backing unworkable solutions, not engaging in calling the opposition murderers, not being politically naive, and, thereby, repeating our past ineffectiveness and dividing the forces for good, many of whom do not want to be identified with mindless and crude zealots who have neither good judgment, sophistication of procedure, nor the modicum of civility needed for the rational discussion of disagreements in a pluralistic democracy. For historical and technical reasons the crime of abortion has not been defined as murder in the technical,legal sense in which the crime of murder is defined in statutes or at common law. It is especially clear today, since the Supreme Court's abortion rulings of January 22, 1973, that abortion cannot in any way be said to be technically murder in this sense. 
However, apart from the technical, legal use of the term, abortion can be classed properly as murder in a genuine m('lral sense. In this sense, murder is the directly intended taking of innocent human life without justification. A description of abortion as murder does not involve any judgment whatever as to the interior culpability, or lack of it, of any person. This is a matter for the m~rcy and justice of God. There is, however, an 
othP.r obJective ethical reality as to which it can be said, without presuming to judge the internal dispositions of any individual, that what the abortionist does is to commit murder. Pope Pius XI referred to abortion as 'the direct murder of the innocent.' <Casti Connubii, Dec. 31, 1930) This is the same sense of the term, 'murder', which was used, for example, by Roy Wilkins in reaction to the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, when he announced that he was 'shocked and deeply grieved by the dastardly murder' of Dr. King. <New York Times, April5, 1968, p. 1, col. 4) This statement was made before the assassin of Dr. King was even apprehended. It was not, therefore, a judgment as to the assassin's technical guilt of the statutory crime of murder. It was evidently, instead, an expression of Mr. Wilkins' opinion that the killing of Dr. King was murder in the ethical sense. It was an entirely proper use of the term. What is significant, however, is that each killing of an unborn child by abortion is no less a murder in the objective ethical sense than was the killing of Dr. King. 
In this legitimate though non-legalistic manner of speaking, therefore, abortion is murder. Those who commit abortion commit murder in this ethical s~nse. Without presuming to judge the subjective culpability of any individual, it is fair to say that they are mur­derers. Thus it was that the Danish Lutheran leader, Rev. Christian Bartholdy, said in 1965, that widespread abortion was making Denmark 'a nation of mur­derers.' (See Grisez, Abortion: The Myths, the Realities and the arguments (1970), 349) Or, as Dietrich Bonhoeffer said, concerning abortion.. 'The 
simple fact is that God certainly intended to create a human being and that this nascent human being has been deliberately deprived of his life. And that is nothing but murder.' (See Willke and Willke, Hand­book on Abortion (1971), 92) 
It may be asked whether it serves any legitimate purpose to call abortionists murderers in the ethical sense. lsuggest that it does. The abortionist, whatever his internal disposition, is commiting an objective wrong. We owe him in charity a duty of candor. We serve neigher the wrongdoer nor the cause of rational analysis if we euphemize his wrong and pretend that it is other than it is in objective reality. The abortion movement is founded on a great untruth, that innocent human beings should be defined as non-'persons and subjected to death at the convenience of others or because those others consider them unfit to live. In responding to that movement, it is important to ar-

Charles Rice 
ticulate the truth with utter candor. The first 
prerequisite for the 'rational discussion of 
disagreements in a pluralistic society' is a candid 
acknowledgement of the truth of objective reality. It is 
a reality that abortion is, in the ethical sense, murder. 
It does not constructively contribute to the treatment 
of this issue to imply indirectly that those who say that 
abortion is murder and that abortionists are, ob­
jectively speaking, murderers, are 'mindless and 
crude zealots who have neither good judgment, 
sophistication of procedure, nor the modicum of 
civility needed for the rational discussion of 
disagreements in a pluralistic society.' 

It is appropriate here to suggest that it would be 
desirable for the University of Notre Dame to take a 
corporate stand against abortion. It isof course, clear 
that the administrators of the University, including 
particularly Father Hesburgh, are personally strongly 
opposed to abortion. However, there is a legitimate 
concern over the failure of the University to take a 
corporate position on this issue. The primary civil 
right is the right to live and the primary civil rights iss 
u is abortion. If the University had taken no official 
position on any issue of civil rights, it could be con­
cluded that there is no need for the articulation of a 
position specifically on abortion. In fact, however, the 
University has frequently and properly taken a cor­
porate position, as a University, in support of the civil 
rights of racial minorities. The contrasting silence of 
the University, as an institution, with respect to the 
civil right to live of the most poor and defenseless of all 
minorities, the unborn children in the womb, gives rise 
to an appearance of ambiguity. While the University 
properly speaks as an institution in defense of civil 
rights in general, its silence with respect to the most 
important civil right tends to confer an implicit 
legitimacy on the violations of that right. 

It would be desirable for the University of Notre bame and the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights to speak and act as strongly in defense of this minority group as they speak and act in advancing the civil rights of racial minorities. To date the University and the Center appear to entertain a fragmented vision of civil rights that tends to define those rights in almost exclusively racial terms. Their corporate silence on abortion is especially regrettable in that the genocial overtones of abortion and other governmentally promoted population control measures are now abundantly clear, as Rev. Jesse Jackson and other black leaders have pointed out. Abortion on its own merits is the primary civil rights issue. But even a conception of civil rights as primarily racial should lead one to denounce abortion for the obvious tl~reat that it presently poses to the freedom and integrity of racial minorities. 
The University of Notre Dame has an opportunity to exercise constructive and perhaps decisive leadership in restoring respect for the right to live. The restoration of protection to that right will serve to rekindle a greater respect for life on other issues as well, including the rights of the innocent in war and the need for a more equitable distribution of food and other necessities of life. There are many alumni and other concerned citizens in this nation who look to Notre Dame to exercise that leadership, which would seem to be in accord with the Catholic character of Notre Dame. It would be appropriate for the University to recognize the legitimacy of those concerns and to act in its corporate capacity illdefenseof the right to live. 
the observer 
Night Editor -Bill Brink 
Assistant Night Editor -Dean Janke 

Layout-Karen Hoane, Mary Janca, Tom O'Neil, Mary Reher, Martha Fanning, Katie Kerwin, Bob Brink, V-'11 Zurblls 
Copy Reader -Jim Eder and Ken Bradford Day Editor -Val Zurblls and Ken Glro:.~ard Editorials -Ken Girouard 
Features -J.R. Baker 
Sports -Greg Corgan 

Typists -Barb Haug, Anne Peeler, Rick Huber, Tom Modglin, Janet Carney Compugraphic Operator -Bob Steinmetz Picture Screener -Albert D'Antonio Night Controller -Dave Rust Photos-Paul Joyce 
Welcome Darla and Family 
the observer 

a liturgy of the hours 
The pungent odor of burning incense and aged wood greets the visitor as he steps into the dark room. Thirty-two chairs divided into two rows each line either side of the chamber and a large cloth-i:overed altar stands dominantly in the background. With a little effort, one peers through the filtered light which passes through the entrance way and gazes upon a dark Indian tapestry and an intricately woven blanket which hang from the walls. There is an unmistakeable tranquility present, and the visitor is im­mediately put at ease. Sound like the stage directions for a new Tennessee Williams' play? No, it's an impression of Notre 
Dame's Log Chapel, one of the campus's 

oldest and most historic buildings in which daily at 5:00p.m. the traditional Evensong service is held. 
Now in its sixth year of practice on the campus, Evensong is a vocal celebration of day's end--one which many Catholics may find slightly unfamiliar though it is a service which dates back centuries. In a modern world where faith and traditions are con­stantly being examined and revised, Evensong was discarded by most parishes over the past twenty years. Some felt that it was simply too ritualistic with its ceremony which includes various bowings, chants, and smoking incense. However, there appears to be a revival of sorts with the service, and several colleges and parishes are re­establishing this evening ceremony although many highly ethnic parishes have 
. always included Evensong in their order of worship. At Notre Dame, Barbara Budde, and John Graczack theology majors, are the co-ordinators, of this unique form of worship which is held at 5:05 in the Log Chapel on weekdays and at 4:30 in the Lady Chapel on Sundays. 
. Officially termed "A Liturgy of the Hours in Musical Setting,'' the service seems mystical in appearance. It opens with the celebrant and the cantor entering from the front of the chapel. The curious smell of an intense incense fills the atmosphere with wisps of scented smoke as the celebrant commences by placing a lighted candle on the altar while chanting "Jesus Christ is the Light of the World." The main body of sung prayer at each Hour consists of four songs: the "Light Hymn," Psalm 141 ("My prayers rise like incense, my hands like the evening offering."), an evening Psalm, and a New Testament Canticle. After each of these songs the celebrant (who by the way does not have to be an ordained priest) calls the assembly (let us pray) to a period of silent meditative prayer. During the first psalm, the celebrant liberally "incenses" the candle, the cantor, and all the people. Through this act and the use of special collects, the penitential significance of this highly traditional vesperal psalm is ac­centuated. In effect it becomes an evening act of contrition for the sins of the past day and a plea for protection during the night. In the case, incense is an atonement symbol. 
For Christians, incense, according to the hymnbook Morning Praise and Evensong, can help recall "the sweet odor of Jesus Christ" (11 Cor 2:14-16) which penetrates the lives of those who accept him as Lord and Savior. As a purifier and sweetener, incense is an expressive sign of him "who gives himself up in our place as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God" (Eph 5:2). Among Eastern Christians this kind of in­censation is considered a kind of non-verbal "absolution." 
There are also readings, a gospel canticle, corporate intersessions (from New Testament times on, universal intercession for the Church and the world has been a basic and customary part of all liturgical praryer-such prayers of intercession were created to permit and encourage the people to play the major role in them), the singing of the Lord's Prayer ("an epitome of the entire Gospel"), and a concluding Blessing by the celebrant. It is stressed by religious 
by andy peevler 


(Photo by Paul Joyce.) 

educators that this blessing is not merely a final portion to the service but instead is a form of dismissal which invokes in a con­clusive way the power of God on the assembly and sends it away under the shadow of this power. Whether one feels tha\ strongly about the conclusion of the ceremony depends on his faith, his feelings, his involvement, his attitudes. Yet there is a definite llir of calmness, of peacefulness, of quiet meditation which is created throughout the thirty minute ceremony, and it suitably s~ms a serene ending to a hectic day's classes. 
Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 
the church of the plaster jesus 
reverend rabert rjriffin 


Recently, I attended a funeral in a church that was so ornately cluttered with the art­junk of Catholic piety that I was em­barrassed to be a Catholic priest. There were dozens of statues, paintings, and stained glass windows, allegedly of holy persons, but I couldn't recognize an authentic Jesus anywhere. The Christ that the priest preached of in a fifteen minute homily was as vague and platitudinously dull as the art objects depicting Him. He wasn't even a God you could feel sorry for, much less trust to raise your loved ones from the dead. Death, when it comes as a sudden, unexpected interruption to a life filled with accomplishment or promise, is a very specific event ·about which one reserves the right to complain to heaven: 
"Look here, sir, old Deity of deities: why did you have to do it? In a morning mischievous with earthquakes in Chile and bombings in Belfast, could not this two year old child have been spared from suffocating in a fire? Could not this sixteen year old girl have escaped from murder in a parking lot?" 
The dull, cliche-ridden Saviour that emerged as comforter in that recent funeral homily was too unreal for the specifics of my grief. (If He was all that worthy of trust, 
book notice 

Darby O'Gill the first dog ever to assist the University Chaplain, has announced that his compatriot and some-time master, Father Robert Griffin, will be publishing a second book sometime in December of 
January.  The  book  will  be  titled  'The  
Lonliness  of  Unicorns,'  and  will  be  
published by  the  Paulist  Press.  Darby  

welcomes this news, as the publication of a book by the good father tends to make him something of a celebrity among the other dogs on this campus. 
why did He let the death occur, anyway?) According to eye witnesses, Christ went to the actual door of Lazarus' tomb to wrestle with death. In my bereavement, give me also a God Who can recognize that for us who are on this side of the rainbow, un­timely death is a shocker; let Him and me 
confront the horror together. Spare me the flatulent rhetoric of a Christ I never believed in, and never could believe in, whose balm for easing pain is the news that in eternity, crosses are exchanged for starry crowns. This Christ of some preachers is unreal, as the statues and windows are unreal, and I am embarrassed when I hear about Him. People might mistake me as a priest ordained in the church of the plaster Jesus. 
A girl who went with me to the funeral 
said: "I have difficulty in coming to terms 
with death." I answered: "I have difficulty 
in coming to terms with funerals." I could 
have added: I also have trouble with Billy 
Graham, "Good Night, Sweet Jesus,'' 
evangelical preachers, charismatic who 
sound like evangelical preac:hers, Norman 
Vincent Peale, "Are You Running With Me, 
Jesus," Garner Ted Armstrong, "Smile! 
Jesus Loves You!" and the faith epigraphs 
in flannel asserting that the One, True 
Bluebird of Happiness Is the Paraclete. 
Sometimes I seem surer of Who Jesus is 
not than I am of the dazzling beauty of His 
real image. Who is He? Whatt does He do? 
Crossing through Pennsylvania on Route 80, 
I listen to the radio choir: 

There is a Fountain filled with blood 
Drawn from Emmanuel's veins; 
And sinners plunged beneath that .flood 
Lose all their guilty stains. 
Oh terrific, if you can belie:ve in the blood 
bath of the Lamb. But what if He doesn't 
exist? 

"If God doesn't exist,'' writes a Catholic 
wit, "That's His problem." 
"Not so,'' says the radio preacher. 
"Unless you believe, you shall surely perish"-i.e., burn forever in a lake of fire. 
Bertrand Russell said: "If there is, in fact, a Supreme Deity, which I doubt, I think it most unlikely that he would possess so uneasy a vanity as to be offended by my views about his existence." 
"Let us suppose, sir," the believer asked, "that after you left this sorry vale, you actually found yourself in heaven, standing before the throne. There, in all his glory, sat the Lord. What would you think?" 
"I would think I was dreaming." 
"But suppose you realized you were not? Suppose that there, before your very eyes, beyond a shadow oi a doubt, was God. What would you say?" 
Bertrand Russell wrinkled his nose. "I would probably saY, 'Sir, why did you not give me better evidence."' 
To the radio evangelist, I reply: if my salvation from hell fire depends on the slaughter of innocence, demanded by the vanity of omnipotence as the price for of­fending His justice with my sins, I must also murmur a complaint: "Sir, why do you not give me better evidence?" 
Oh, I do believe in Christ as my Redeemer. But how can I be sure He does not seem as pietistic to the Christians to whom I preach Him, as Oral Robert's redeemer seem pietistic to me? 
Here, then, is the Lord as I have faith in Him, perhaps to your embarrassment. My favorite images are the conventional ones of Scripture that depict Him as an elemental man much in love with His Father's world: earth and birds, winds and sea, wheat fields and hillsides where the lilies grow wild. He could command the storms and weather, just as He commanded the demons and even the grave itself. Because He loved people, he understood the things that troubled them and the events that gave them joy; and His · ministry encompassed all human needs and celebrations. Because we suffer, He suf­fered; because we are subject to death, He submitted Himself to that humiliation;. But there was a strength and grace in Him that gave dignity to pain; and a love in Him that made Him stronger than death. Easter was His gift to us, assuring us that nothing or no one is more triumphant than God, or the children to whom God gives life. 

My God is a father who deals with me as a child who sometimes has to work things out for himself. Jesus, as first-born,has taught me about our father; as an older brother, He has given me His wisdom and example; as redeemer, He gives me the grace to grow on. Damnation is not a word that is spoken between us. Damnation is something I do to myself, if I forget how to love. My father and My Brothers are involved in a con­spiracy to keep me alive to love. 
'More complexly, the Christ I believe in is. 
I hope, the Lord of the Scriptures and the 
Creeds, Whom the theologians write of and 
the liturgy celebrates as the Word made 
flesh. I do not shape His glory into faith; He 
is the God-Man to Whom my faith im­
perfectly responds. 

My crises of faith come from those who 
would diminish either His divinity or His 
humanity; with those who never have felt 
the mystery of His hiddenness; with those 
who would make God cheap, like a com­
mercial product whose use removes the 
pain or embarrassment of daily life. 

I guess I am a bigot of my own beliefs. It 
probably doesn't matter much except 
sometimes at funerals, when I know no 
other Lord to ·offer as a comforter to those 
who mourn, as I meet them in the churches 
of the plaster Jesus. 

Anyone interested in working on a radio program for urchins, to be called The Children's Hour, on WSND is invited to call me at the University Chaplain's digs at 101 Keenan, tel. 7066 or 7171. The program will be a weekly presentation, beginning October 5. All kinds of talent, with the possible exception of mimes and jugglers, are needed. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
Interviews lor seniors and grads 


Placement bureau operations begin tuesday 
by Lonnie Luna conduct a special series of in­Staff Reporter terviews with major companies for seniors and graduate students next 

The Bureau will hold a presentation, starting Tuesday Sept. 17 and running through Sept. 19, with representatives from companies across the United States. Tuesday will be strictly for the Arts and Letters majors with Sears Roebuck and IBM as the visiting employers. This session discusses how to take an interview, will will conduct a mock interview and end with a critique and a question and answer period. 
Wednesday night, Sept. 18, Mellon National Bank of Pitt­sburgh and Kaufman's of Pitt­sburgh will host the Business majors. Concluding .the program will be Alcoa and Firestone for Science and· Engineering majors. These Placement Nights will start at 7:00 in the Engineering Auditorium . 
. . The Placement Bureau is a service provided by the University to help employers find perspective employees. It supplies resumes t.o 
•

Nixon res1gns from Bar 
Board of Governors of the barBy GEORGE FRANK 
prepared to consider what

SACRAMENTO, Calif. (UPI) action it would take on the resignation.
-Former President Richard 
Newly elected associationM. Nixon's formal letter of president Brent Abel of Sanresignation as a member of the Francisco and John Malone,California Bar Association was executive secretary of the bar,received Thursday, association confirmed receipt of the letterofficials reported. 

but did not disclose its contents.

The letter arrived at the The Board of Governorsassociation's headquarters in indicated it had three optionsSan Francisco as the ruling available in dealing with 
Magazine solicitors contactedbysecurity 
by Bob Radziewicz 
Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame Security ap­prehended Edward Kelly, III, and his wife Nancy, yesterday af­ternoon as they continued soliciting magazine subscriptions in hall residences without the permission of the Vice-President for Student Affairs, Brother Just Paczensny. 
Kelly and his wife were sought for questioning concerning the legitimacy of magazine sub­scriptions they had sold in some of the residence halls Tuesday and Wednesday. Following his in­vestigation today, Arthur Pears, director of Security, released case details to the Observer in a press statement. 
"They are indeed employed by "Opportunities Service Com­pany," located in Michigan City, Indiana. All magazine sub­criptions are legitimate," Pears stated 
Kelly asserted_. "Any student who subscribes to any magazine through the company can have their money returned and the subscription cancelled by notifying the company in writing, and sending a copy of the receipt from the salesman." The address of "Opportunities Service Company" is 2601 E. Michigan Blvd., Michigan City, Indiana, 46360 (telephone: 219-874-7248). Kelly further related that had given strict instructions to his sales crew not to work college campuses. 
Pears pointed out that University regulations specifically state that no outside soliciting is permitted or allowed without the permission of the Vice-President for Student Affairs Office. The Kellys had not received this per­mission, nor had they attempted to obtain it. 
Pears added, "We encourageall student.c:: help by not making purchases by outside solicitors unless show proof of permission from the Student Affairs Office." 

Nixon's resignation: delaying any action until next month, rejecting it or accepting it. 
The former President's per­sonal attorney, Dean S. Butler, surprised the annual convention of the California Bar Associa­tion Monday with the ·disclosure that Nixon no longer intended to practice law in California or New York and would resign as a member of the bar in those states. 
Association officials said ear­lier that a resignation from practice was the equivalent of disbarment. The state Supreme Court has the final say over acceptance or rejection of Nixon's resignation. 
Announcement of the resigna­tion seemed to render moot the bar association's investigation into whether Nixon should be disbarred following his resigna­tion as President because of the Watergate scandal. 
However, an insurgent group of about 100 attorneys launched a petition campaign urging the board of governors to continue the investigation of Nixon in spite of his intended resigna­tion. 
The bar's year-long investiga­tion of Nixon and five other Watergate implicated California lawyers has cost $150,000 and consumed 2,000 man-hours, bar sources said. 
Malone 1·efused to comment specifically on the confidential 
material  that  was  compiled  on  
Nixon  but  described  it  as  "a  
file like  no  other file."  
·­ 


MEDICAL SCHOOL APPLICANTS 
Amencan Medical Col­lege Admissions Profile, Inc., offers a com­puterized analysis to assist you in more effectively as­sessing your qualifications and more accurately di­recting your medical 
... 
school applications. Your MCAT scores, grade point average, college attended, state of residence, age and other criteria are used in a comparative analysis with the previously accepted class at the medical schools you select. 

Contact your pre­medical advisor for further information or write A.M.C.A.P., Inc., Box 8747, Boston, Mas­sachusetts 02114. 
the employer and at the same time 
it gives the job-seeker information about the company. 
There  are  many  things  the  
Bureau  does  besides  providing  
students with  an  interview.  Its  

other tasks include maintaining graduate school catalogs and employer literature, publishing job bulletins for positions in business industry, government and education and distributing them throughout the campus. The bureau also maintains confidential files and resumes for students and publishes a manual, which can be 
1 1 -1 1 1 -2 

pm WEEKENDS 
PIZZA CARRY OUT 
Ph. 289-0344 
LOUNGE 
RESTAURANT  11  -3 pm  
&  ALL  WEEK  
LOUNGE  

1817 SO. Michigan 


·::;:;::·:%"r:·:-·.-.·.·. ::::~~:}~{ :·:-:-··. 
~'
..•,_,gji::,::JW···
-t:···/·:······:a 
Tom McMahon AI Razzana Dennis Chiddister 
General Agent 
ent Agent 
t'araftt'r \'t'ar~ st'mcstcr 
after st'mcstcr~ tht' Collt'gt'M astt'r ·from Fidt'litv Union I..itc has been tt1t' most accepted~ most popular plan on 
Jim Tucker 
campuses all overAmerica. 
Agent 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelitv Union 
College Master· 
Fit'ld Associate m your area: 
Dave Witt 1005 E. LaSalle Agent South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 



picked up in the office in October. 
On Mondau, Sept.23, the Bureau will hold an Open House for all students, faculty, and staff members between the hours of 1:30 and 4:30 p.m. and will continue through Sept. 26. The Bureau has undergone renovations which include the moving of the central office to Rm. 213 and the estab;osjment of interview rooms in Rooms 220, 221, and 222. Director Richard Willemin and his staff urge all seniors and grad students to take advantage of these opportunitiPc:: 
pm WEEKDAYS 
Friday, September 13, 1974 

the observer 9 

~ I
*SMC COFFEE HOUSE* 
FRI. 13 SPOOKOUT!

lVlitchell argues innocence 
PETE SNAKE* FRANK MARTIN 
(continued from page 3) 'Watergate persons,"' the brief ing in the public mind the belief said. "The result of this that the defendents ... are culp-. 
STEVE KLEE
further inflamed the atmos­presidential inaction has gene­•abl1e." phere by publicly agonizing rated vi.olent opposition to Mhchell's lawyers said that over whether or not further pardons by congressional Iead­Nb:on has received "different 
pardons are to be issued for all ers,t, thereby further engender-treatment ... based solely on the arbitrary circumstance of 

I 
his former position as President of the United States." They
Square dance slated for 
cihld an 1856 Supreme Court opinion about presidential par­don power in which Justice James M. Wayne noted that
bookstore B-ball courts 
whEln one person in the same case is pardoned "the pardon by David Bender for one of them is a pardon for
working hard all week to

Staff Reporter although they may not be
guarantee a great time for one and mentioned in it."

The basketball courts behind the all. Farmer Norb reminds us that 
This, the Mitchell lawyers
Notre Dame bookstore will be the moonshine disturbs the farm 
reasoned, means all the Water­
ONE HEU OF APAYOFF!

scene this Friday evening as the animals, and that in case of 
gatEl defendants should also go
folks of Sorin and Farley present cloudburst, the dance will be 
A Better Movie Than H·A·S·H!free.
an old-fashioned square dance to moved to Farmer Stepan's barn. round out the summer and usher in the fall. From eight to twelve, Ford's 
dance caller Bob Barnes, 'the 
pardon requested
Midwest's Best,' will provide the tunes and instruction for any 
aiii:a ' 
""''"'""""'''"'

roo~ie squa.re da~cers th~t 
f~l by Oklahoma 
their expenence m the field IS 
lc•otball teCDJJ 
•

limited. 
The dance is open to all Notre Oklahoma television appearances Dame and St. Mary's students free NORMAN, OKLA. UPI-because of a .recruiting~ violation. of charge, and will feature soft President Ford has been asked On Wednesday, U. S. District drinks, old fashioned doughnuts, to "pardon" the Oklahoma football Judge Stephen Chandler dismissed and country popcorn. team so the Sooners will be eligible an a111titrust suit filed by Oklahoma 
Twc Aces 
..,.t..~ ~····"' (,....,~. 
''''"'' ~•ulllllf•l fotonlrl

Director Norm Shickel and for television coverage.~· Television Sports ·Inc. aimed at 
assistants Sue Swaitek and Kathy Seven employees of Norman reversing the ban in Oklahoma 
.............ot ...."''' n•"'-' 1ho'lfl"''

Smouse are doing their very best to Municipal Hospital sent Ford a City. 
•

provide a real country square telegram which state-d ''Since The suit had urged that sanctions 
( ~··'"'"'" "'''" ,,
do•lhoUI'I\" 

dancin' atmosphere with special pardons are the order of the day, applied to the Sooners by the 
MUST-S[[ lighting, hay, and old fashioned please pardon the Oklahoma NCAA and the Big Eight 
"'"' 

banners. University football team so they unlawfully prohibited the new firm may be nationally telvised." from telecasting Oklahoma 
GEORGE SEGAL EllOO GOULD 'CAUFORN!ASI'UT 
"R --··

A committee of sixteen from The NCAA and Big Eight Con­games. It claimed interference 
Sorin and Farley halls have been have a ban with private enterprise. 
ference placed on 
; 
) 
] t 

You're going to 
. I
. 

see us 1r1 a new light 
We have a new look ... the Sc:tme fine un iver si fy-styled apparel, the same team of "tuned-in" 
some!, but a brand new look to the store. You're t;;~oing to like it. The n ew look goes beyond li ffa n y I amps and decor, the ap­parel and accessories were esf:Ed ally selected for you your way of life (and your budget). This is your store. 
... 

. . . . ~ .. ...... "' \ , .... " "' ... ·~
' ~ 


We invited afew friends for dinner and theyhelped clean up the Genesee River. 
With the aid of a few thousand pounds of microorga­nisms, we're helping to solve the water pollution problem in Rochester. Maybe the solution can help others. 
What we did was to combine two processes in a way that gives us one of the most efficient water-purifying sys­tems private industry has ever developed. 
One process is called "activated sludge," developed by man to accelerate nature's microorganism adsorption. What this means is that for the majority of wastes man can produce, there is an organism waiting somewhere that will happily assimilate it. And thrive on it. 
The breakthrough came when Kodak scientists found a way to combine the activated sludge process with a trickling filter process and optimized the combination. 
We tested our system in a pilot plant for five years. 


.. 
(At Kodak, we were working on environmental improvement long before it made headlines.) And the pilot project worked so well, we built a ten-million-dollar plant that can purify 36-million gallons of water a day. 
Governor Rockefeller called th_is "the biggest volun­tary project undertaken by private industry in support of New York State's pure-water program." 
Why did we do it? Partly because we're in business to make a profit-and clean water is vital to our business. But in furthering our own needs, we have helped further society's. And our business depends on society. 
We hope our efforts to cope with water pollution will inspire others to do the same. And, we'd be happy to share our water-purifying information with them. We all need clean water. So we all have to work together. 
Kodak 
More than abusiness. 
. i .·',. 

_..·; \ (\ '.; '~
.'.. 



Vendingmachinesoffer the best products to students 
by John Kenward Staff Reporter 

The University of Notre Dame's Vending Department is a service few people are aware of, yet many take advantage of it constantly. Managed by Dean Winter, whose office is located in the basement of the North Dining Hall, the service provides extra sustenance to the Notre Dame community via the 171 vending machines located on campus. 
These machines dispense, for a price, almost everything from Bubble-Up to Winstons. Winter took over the operation two years ago and since then has restructured the complicated routes and servicing methods for better vending. He also has almost completed a replacement program for the various machines, which date back to 1963 or even 1956. 
"By next year we will have finished replacing each and every machine. But we still will have to constantly be in the process of buying machines, at an average cost of between 15()()­2000 dollars each to replace the broken ones, the tampered-once­to-often ones, and even the ones that still work as to not have all of the vending machines get old at the same time," said Winter. 
Besides seeing to the machines' upkeep and stocking, Dean Winter also is in charge of the complaint department which he manages personally or with the aid of an automatic tape recorder wired to the phone. On an average day, the department gets about six calls reporting monetary loss or item exhaustion, and a few more calls that relate very little to the business at hand. 
Few days are boring for Winter and his staff, as people call in their vending problems or cranks with a flair. In the words of Steve Snavely, Vending Machine Mechanic, "They have pretty clever ways to tell us their problem. You just. don't know what you're going to get over that phone or tape recorder." 
Snavely, Winter, and Assistant Manager Ed Rusinek chuckled as they recalled some of the more repeatable experiences, such as the Pangborn Rootbeer Crisis. 
"Rootbeer just wasn't selling there so we took it out," recalled Winter. "Then later some guys phoned in a tape recording they had made with a guitar while singing 'Give Rootbeer Back to the Ir.ish'. It was quite good. So 
we put Rootbeer back in 
Yangoorn." "But it still didn't sell," added Ed Rusinek. 
Also over the phone they have gotten variQus propositions that violate the ND-8MC sex code, reports of certain machines mating in the hall "in public, yet!", and such complaints as "Vot do you mean der machine doess not take Reichsmarks? ! ". 

Providing the Notre Dame community with the best products that can be bought at the cheapest price with the best service guarantee is not an easy 
job . Keeping the machines working in the face of angry kicks and poundings is even harder," Winter noted. 
When a machine runs out of a favorite item or gets jammed with someone else's ~Coke tab rings, slugs, Canadian coins, or Reichsmarks, or doesn't come though with the goods, all too often it is given thirty kicks for silent robbery. People shouldn't do that, said Winter. 
"Human error in the cases where people don't read the so­cent price sign on the cigarette dispensers and drop in 45 cents in the slot in memory of last year's prices, and human pranks such as deliberate jammings rate high," Winter observed. If they would only read the correct prices, use the coin return lever, and call us instead of taking it out on the machine, our ability to service the community would be greatly improved." 
Winter would like to remind everyone that the vending ser­vice is a department of ND, and not a private organization. The profits involved are turned over to the University and are used against the rising costs of tuition and room and board. Thus, a harm rendered to a vending machine is a physical strike against Notre Dame. 

"We try to keep good relations ·with the community", com­
mented Rusinek. "Anyone with a 
problem concerning one of the 
machines need only call us." 
Rusinek added that machines at 
the ACC are not handled by his 
department. 
Complaints may be phoned in, 
24 hours a day, at 8888. Com­
plaintants are asked to leave 
their name, address, amount of 
money lost if a refund is desired, 
and the location of the problem 
machine. A refund and-or repair 
will then be made. 
Suggestions for improvements 
may either be directed at Winter 
or E.T. Price, Director of Food 
Services. 

Directories available at LaFortune today 
by Andy Praschak Staff Reporter 

Freshman directories for the Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­munity have arrived, according to Rick Golden, of the Notre Dame Student Union. The directory, sponsored by the Services Com­mission of the Student Union, can be picked up in the LaFortune ballroom today from 2 to 4:30p.m. Extra books can be purchased at $4.00 for the soft cover and $5.50 for the hard back. 
The introduction of the book contains highlights of upcoming social activities, a directory of campus establishments, campus media information, a guide to student government and other assorted articles of interest to 
freshmen. The bodv of the book contains picturee oi all freshmen and a brief list of their hobbies and interests. Mike Gassman edited the book and the cover was designed b;v Chris Smith. "I would like to thank the 11001 freshmen who responded to the applications we sent them this summer," said Golden. He stated that this representsa 30 per cent increase over last year's resoonse. 
Freshmen who do not wish tc. purchase the entire book can pick up a copy of the introduction free of charge, in the ballroom at the same time the books are sold. 
Any problems concerning the directory should be addressed to Mike Gassman of Student Services at 8701. 
Friday, September 13, 1974 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

For sale1 Rollei 35 camera black fmish. Excellent cond. Want $90 Paul 1882 
Want to sell 4 season tickets 
& want to buy 3 GA tickets 
to Miami or Pitt. Call 232­
6790 after midnight on Mon., Tues., or Wed. 
1969 Olds 442 convt. (blue)$1100. Contact 283-6162 or 
-6162 or 272-5498 (after 4pm) 
1972 Yamaha 250 street bike 
recently tuned $525; 3378 
68 Plymouth Fury III 58,000
miles. New tll'es since 
June. Good cond. $595. 
Bed, Queen size, $75· coffee 
table $15; stroller, $5; car 
seat, $12. All items like 
new. 272-9193 
STEREO 80 bucka w-o speakers can't beat lt! :l34­
5646 
1 Slazenger tennis racket 
$12.00 Excellent cond. Jeff 6161 
NOTICES 

Two garage sale! Sept. 13­15 Fri, lpm to ? Sat. 10 to? elec. range, elec. dryer,elec. sweepers, regulartires\ snow tires, old trimks, packmg and steamer, elec. appliances. trash cans, 26" boys bike, games~ ~en. women, ooys ana girlsclothing, muse. items. 1914 
Wedgewood dr. 
EUPHORIA <RECORDS 
AND TAPES) IS BACK,
CHEAP? WE BEAT ALL 
SOUTH BEND PRICES. 
SPECIAL FOR DEAD FREAKS..DEAD 
ALBUMS' 
RIDICULOUSLY CHEAP,
UNTIL THURS. WE 
DELIVER TO ND 
STUDENTS CALL234-6535 NAVAJO Squash
blossmoms made out of 
merenci tourquoise Call 
234-5646 
Money? Morrissey loan 
fund can lend you up to $150. 
Basement of La fortune­daily, 11 :15-12: 15 
N.E. Day Care may fit your 
needs. students faculty or 
otherwise. 233-2233 233-3865 24 hr. T.V. repair-color 
T.Vs $60 and up 282-1955 Bilbo's Birthday-Sept. 22. 
Organizing now for suitable cerebration. 6246; 11­midnight 
Handmade Indian 
turquoise jewelry from the 
Sou1hWest. Rings
Bracelets, Earings an(i
accessories. all ·very
reasonably priced. 287-0Q'/6after 7 
Joan,
Too bad Kelly is your 
room ate. 
THE STUDENT UNION 
TICKET OFFICE HOURS 
THIS SEMESTER WILL 
BE 12:15-5:00 MWF AND 
11 : 00-1 : 00 & 2 : 30 
5:00 oil TT. THE TICKET UJ<'I''tCE IS LOCATED ON THE SOUTH END OF THE SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE (ABOVETHE HUDDLE) VAN MORRISON & SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW 
AVAILABLE. Experienced typist willdo; 
term papers, manuscripts.
call Jane 233-5332 Sun Flower Music Shop We 
buy old guitars, banjos,
mandolins, also do custom 
building and repair.
25percent off on strings, 
capos, etc. visit us at 632N. 
Portage, south bend 
PHONE 288-5485 Pandoras Books is pleased 
to announce our new dailyservice of New York Times. We also carry Sun. NYT.s 
too! Richard Brautigans latest 
novel HAWKLINE 
MONSTER now in stock at 
Pandoras Books 602 N. St. 
Louis Blvd. 
TALISMAN NOW 
A V AILABEL FOR DAN­
CES, CONCERTS, PAR­
TIES, AND PRE-GAME 
PERFORMANCES. FOR 
INFORMATION, CALL 
272-9895 LOST AND FOUND 9-11 A.M. Notre Dame class 
ring (white inscription on 
inside 'PMR' 75) Reward 
for return Please contact 
Pat 3404 High School class ring '72 
La Lumiere call 234-2620 
Pr. of mens .glasses bet­ween ND Ave. and Campus 
Pat 234-5823 Reward for return of green 
spirial notebook and -or computer data processingbooiC 'accidently' taken from South Dining Hall9-5. Please give tiack-no questions asked 235 Walsh 
8093 WANTED NEED 2 GA TIX FOR 
PURDUE GAME. CALL 
TRACE AT 234-1889 need 1 Purdue ticket call 
Pam 5185 
3 or 4 tickets to Elvis 
Presley concert (either
night) tickets must be 
together. Call Marty at 289­
3751 
Need 2 GA tickets for 
Miami call Jim 3805 Need 3 GA tix to Army call 
Randy 272-7198 
Need home for a male 
malamute pup 2•h•h 
months old until May
1975. Will pay for fooa and ~expenses call Ken 272­8879 or 283-3797 
Need 2 GA tix Purdue 
Game call Bob 283-1889 Need 2 GA Tix to Rice or 
Army games. Willing to 
pay $. Call; Jim 6764 
Desperately need 4 GA tix 
to Purdue Phone 6816 Wanted: one ticket to 
Purdue game. Call Bob at 8627 
Must have 1 Purdue ticket 
GA or student ca;; Joe-1132 Need 2 GA Purdue tix call 
Bob 3374 
Need 4 GA Rice tix Dave 
6818 
2 GA tix for Purdue. Call 
Larry 288-7375 
Need 4 to 6 GA tickets for 
Pitt or Miami. 288-2613 Need 6 GA tickets for 

Purdue $110 call 8164 Desperately need two GA 
tickets for Rice. Will pay 
top dollar. Call Bill after 7 
pm 8533 
Need Northwestern tix. 
Call Bryan, Chuck or Mike 

3185 Desperately need 2 GA tix 
for Purdue game call Trace 
at 283-1889 N 

TIX FOR Rice or Army 
games. Willing to pay.$
call Jim 6764 
PERSONALS 

To the Antichrist and the At~eists: May pitch and brimstone shower uponA vingon and may you be bouna by red-hot chains to 
your judgment!The Supreme Roman Pontif 
To the Pontiff of Rome­
Happy Friday 13 AnfiChristal Coalition 
Dear Marvina R.,

Congratulations on a great
game! Keep up the good
work. 414 Lyons 

With sincere thanks to the 
Notre Dame Community­
especially Father 
Hesburgh, the employees of 
the North Dining Hall, the 
members of tfie ·1973-74 
Mexico group, the class of 
1976 and clergy-who helped 
us through a difficult time. 

Your thoughts, feelings and 
generosity will be long
remembered 
The Bartosik Family Dear Dan,
Happy 21st Birthday
Love, your Honey

Honey·--------------­Come one, come all to ehe fabulous Farley-SorinSquare Dance Friday 13th Bookstore Basketball 
courts 

COME AND PRANCE IN 
YOUR FANCY PANTS AT 
FRIDAYS SQUA'RE
DANCE 
ATTENTION ARTS AND LETTERS 
Present Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors. Applications for A. & L. 
COLLEGE COUNCIL SEATS 
and one 

UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC COUNCIL SEAT 
'~re now being accepted. Students are asked to write a brief statement . one typewritten. · 
page or less . on why they are interested in serving in either (or both) positions. Include ~. 
address and phone number. All statements must be submitted to the 

DEAN'S OFFICE 137 O'SHAUGHNESS~Y NO LATER THAN FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13. -­
I ~!ie~:i~t~n b~a~~:a) 
~-~·­

12 tho D91'¥0r Friday, September 13, 1974 
ND Open heads into final stage 

Wrestling exams 
ALL NEW

*SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION* 
given Sunday 
LIVE MUSIC-DAN:ING

PRESENTS 
Physical exams for all men 
PIN BALL AI\ACHINES

interested in wrestling for Notre Dame will be given at Infirmary on 
*EASY RIDER* 
GREAT PIZZA

Sunday, Sept. 15, 1974 at 2 p.m. 
WHERE: WHEN:
If you want to get a locker and check out gear you MUST first 
SO COME ON DO'v\N TO

CARROLL HALL 
.FRIDAY 9 I 1 3 
have a physical-BE THERE!! You will be reminded by phone on 
AT MADE.LEVA SATURDAY9/14
Saturday. 
GUISEPPES RESTAURANT

The first official wrestling team meeting will be on Monday, Sept. 
7 1 3 E.l A SA L L E A V E

16 in the wrestling room (ACC) at 5 
p.m. (Those not able to make it, 
233-0951

call Coach Pechek at 232-5359) 
8 PM AND 1 0 PM B 0 T H NIT E S 
By Bill Delaney par-71 Burke Course. Burda 
posted scores of 71 and 67 in his 

The 1974 edition of the Notre first two rounds, and made a 
Dame Open heads into its final 36 sensational display of his shot-
holes this weekend, with many of making ability, carding 7 birdies 
last years Irish linkers vying for on his round of 67. 
medalist honors. The Open, an Richard Knee, a freshman from 
annual tournament for the benefit Wilmington, Delaware, carded 
of those students wishing to try out runnerup honors with scores of 71 
for the team, finished the first 36 and 70, for a two-<lay total of 141, or 
holes last weekend, with captain one under. Last year's starters Ed 
Jeff Burda leading the Open with a Whelan, Jim Culveyhouse, Paul 
score of 138, four-under-par, for the Koprowski, and Mike Kistner were 
Greg Corgan·=========:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==================================~ 
The Irish Eye 
::::::='='================================================================================================Football picks ~~~Jo~;s ~~~te~~oanr~!~~mi 
The first hig weekend of college football arrives tomorrow and with it, Tht> Irish Eyl' resumes its annual weekly prognostications. The challenge is great this season. Past curator Vic Dorr set a sizzling pace a year ago with an impressive 49 for 60, a percentage of .817. However. the degree of difficulty assigned to tttttthe games selected was, aat times, suspect. Nonetheless, as Dorr vociferously points out, "These are the games the fans are interested in!" With this in mind The Irish Eye will attempt to examine the top fifteen contests of the upcoming weekend involving the top teams. And Satur­day's schedule is a dandy. 
Alabama at Maryland: The Terrapins are picked to win the Atlantic Coast Conference title but that's hardly the SEC. The Crimson Tide are hurting somewhat with key injuries in key positions. Still, look, for Maryland to be 0-1 on Sunday. 
Arkansas at Southern Cal: Frank Broyles may once again have the material to make the Southwest Conference a two-team race. Un­fortunately for the Razorbacks, SC's John McKay has enough material to make the Pac-8 a one team race. The Trojans by 14. 
Baylor at Oklahoma: Should be a cakewalk for the Sooners. Baylor will have trouble finishing seventh in the eight-team SWC. 
Texas at Boston ColiPge : The BC Eagles have suicidal ten­dencies. Texas this year and Notre Dame in 1975. Boston College will be a good team in the East, but the Longhorns are a better team in the West. Darrel Royal would enjoy the color commentary on this game. 
Colorado at L.S. U.: Charlie McLendon's Tigers are out to impress people this year while Colorado, after a couple of years of high class football will fall upon hard times. LSU by 10. 
Ohio State at Minnrsota: The Buckeyes will bury Minnesota in a hole even a Gopher couldn't get out of. 
Oregon State at Georgia: This could be one of the closer contests of the afternoon. Both teams are not expected to fare well in their respective conferences. The Georgia Bulldogs will be at home so look for them to treat the Beavers with anything but generosity. South Carolina at Gt>orgia Tech: Tech is still licking its wounds after the Irish thumping on Monday night. A second game in four days may also be too much. Still, Pepper Rodgers has a good team and the Yellow Jackets should come out on top in this southern battle. Indiana at Illinois: The Hoosiers have improved but the Illini have gotten even better. Indiana has one of the toughest schedules around and they'll find out why tomorrow. Illinois by 7. Iowa at Michigan: Iowa was winless (Q-11) in 1973. If you include last year they'll be 0-12 on Saturday. Iowa State at Tt>xas Tech: Iowa State may finish in the Big Eight cellar. Still the Cyclones are anything but weak. The Red Raiders of Texas Tech aren't as strong as last year and the game should be close, but look for Tech. Northwestt>rn at Michigan State: The Spartans secondary was destroyed by graduation losses. Northwestern's Mitch Anderson will attempt to lead the Big Ten in passing for the third straight year. Only Len Dawson has accomplished such a feat. Anderson should get off to a good start against MSU. Look for the Wildcats. Oregon at :"Jebraska: Nebraska will use the Ducks to tune up for more important Big Eight matches. Oregon is no slouch but the Cornhuskers are anxious to get back on top. Wisconsin at Purdut>: Last year's contest ended up with the Boilers on top 14-13. This year's game should be just as tense. The Badgers are a team to be reckoned with in the Big Ten, but in West Lafayette Alex Agase's squad may have the advantage they'll need. Purdueby two. llpst>t or thf:' wt>t>k: Stanford over Penn State: Joe Paterno claimed to have had one of the worst springs in his coaching career. The Nittany Lions have lost a multitude of lettermen including Heisman 'Trophy winner John Ca'pelletti. The Cardinals were 7-4 last season and are ex­pected to improve on that. They may start with Penn State tomorrow. 
also among the ~eaders, with Kistner's 80 and 69 total being the most remarkable score of the tournament so far. Koprowski and Whelan shot 146 and 147 respec­tively, while Culveyhouse carded two 74's for 148. 
Noel O'Sullivan, in his second year as coach of the Irish linkers, was very pleased with the turnout of students. 'I know that there are some fantastic golfers throughout the campus, but for one thing or 
~~:~~~tr;:~sto?~~ll~~~~~ ro~~~ 
ideaof the Open-where anybody can come out and display his talents, has perennially given us a player or so capable of playing golf for Notre Dame With the tremendous turnout last weekend 
definitely feel that the top scorers will really contribute to the Notre Dame golfing program.' 
The final two rounds will be held this weekend at the Burke course on campus. 'Burda and my men from last year will be hard to beat, but Knee and Frank Flanigan (who had a score of 148 last weekend) can certainly provide some ex­citement down the stretch.' With the talent O'Sullivan has amassed last xear' a!!.d the addition of four 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

ND football highlights 
-

In action Monday night, Tom Clements gets ready to drop a pass to one of his backs. Halfback Ron Goodman holds up at the line waiting to see what develops. 
by Pat Lennon 

On the weekend beginning Friday, October 4, the Notre Dame Irish Invitational tennis tour­nament will be held on the tennis courts next to the A.C.C. building. Invited universities are Indiana, Illinois, Indiana State, Illinois State, Southern Illinois, Iowa, and Cincinnati, the defending cham­pion. If Cincinnati cannot par­ticipate, Purdue will fill the vacant spot. 
The tournament, a round robin affair in which every team plays every other team, will help Head Tennis Coach Tom Fallon get an idea of his team's strengths and weaknesses. 
Fallon expects a strong, ex­perienced team this year, having lost only two players from last season. A tournament held here on August 31 added eight more players to this yyear's squad. Freshman Tony Bruno defeated Dave Cantu in straight sets to capture first place honors. 
Added to the team, along with the two finalists, were up­perclassmen Pat Murphy, Steve Lyons, and Dave Wheaton. Fresh­men Rod Stephan, Brian Bracken, and Mike Kelly also joined the varsity courtmen. 
The team's present strength seems to lie in the consistency and depth of the squad. The top five or six players, said Fallon are so even that it would be difficult to name one as better than another. 
With the returning strength and experience of John Carrico, Chris Kane, and Rick Slager, the Notre Dame net set looks to equal or better last year's mark of 24-6. In any event, the 51st year of Notre Dame tennis should prove in­teresting. 




