---~---------~­
On The Inside 
COUP report ... page 3 
Little Big Screen ... page 5 
Vol. VIII, No. 71 
---------~-~--~~~-------------------~ ----~ 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, February 4, 1974 

Campus rooms allocated 

Lottery results posted Friday 
by Clyde Iverson Staff Reporter 
The results of the off-campuslottery were revealed last Friday, February 1, by John M. Mulcahy, director . of Campus Residence and Student Affairs. 
Lists of students whose names were included in the lottery were made available to their hall rector. The ,·ectors were then asked to post those Usts in their respective halls. 
"As far as I know the results of the lottery have been posted in every hall with the exception of two. Those halls have not determined so far if they are going to use the outcome of the lottery for room picks or not," commented Mulcahy. 
Mulcahy stressed the importance of students confirming their status with the Housing Office. He explained, "If your name is not among those who r.1ight be forced off-campus and you wish to remain on campus then you r.1ust do two things: return your con­tract signed to the housing office by April15, and preregister which involves a $50 dollar deposit." 
If a student fails to either return his signed contract or preregister he will be automatically eliminated from his hall lottery list. "We will assume that a student has elected to live off-campus if he fails to fulfill these two stipulations," 
noted Mulcahy. 
"Of course there might not be a need to force anyone off campus. It all depends upon how many yoluntarily move to private housing," said Mulcahy. "We determined that 883 students must live in non-university housing, if that many students, of thei.r own volition decide to live off-campus If hethere will be no problem." 
Although at this point it seems unlikely that 883 students will volun­tarily move off campus, it is even more unlikely that anywhere that number will be forced off. Predicting how many students will want to move off campus and how many will have to be forced has proved to be almost impossible. 
"We simply can't predict how many students are going to live off-campus on a year to year basis.We won't know until the April 15th deadline," said Mulcahy. 
However, once that deadline does arrive the number of students who will be forced off, according to Mulcahy, will be "vastly decreased". As soon as the housing office knows how many students will voluntarily move to private housing their names will be removed from the hall list on a hall by Edwards hall must leave campus. If 20 students decide to leave freely then only 5 students will be forced to leave. Following the 3-2 Senior-Junior ratio established by the university three seniors and two juniors will be asked to 

ieave the hall. 

"We realize that this system isn't perfect," said Mulcahy, "but so far it is the best we have been able to come up with." 
"Just about everyone had an op­portunity to contribute any ideas they had. We talked to Student Government, the Student Life Council and the Hall President's Council and a computer lottery seemed like the fairest approach," he observed. 
"Those subject to the lottery include male sophmores and juniors, people on scholarship and athletes. We try to be as fair as possible," he said. 
However, later he pointed out that girls and athletes will not be forced off campus. He claimed the first was due to university edict, and the second to a NCAA regulation. 
"Girls have not been included in the 
lottery yet and NCAA regulations 
prevent us from forcing any athletes 
off-campus," said Mulcahy. He pointed 
out that for lottery purposes athletes 
are "treated just like anyone else," but 
if it turns out that some are to be forced 
campus he would just increase the of­
ficial quota so as to include the athletes. 
If for instance three athletes were 
iotteried off campus the official quota 
which is 883 might be reduced to 880 so 
as to include the athletes. "No student 
will be forced off campus because of an 
athlete, we will simply increase the 
total number of on campus students to 
include them," he explained. 

This is possible because the 
university maintains a cushion for 
unexpected situations. "We have a 
build in cushion of about 20 beds." said 
mulcahy. 

Father Mulcahy noted that for those 
students who will have to move· off 
campus a list of available private 
housing can be obtained in the housing 
office by February 18. Also a waiting 
list for those who still desire to live on 
campus should be available by April16. 
Fr. Mulcahy concluded that he didn't 
know if the same system will be used 
next year. "Obviously some aspects of 
the lottery can be improved, but if it 
works well this year we will probably 
use it as long as we have a housing 
problem" 

Finally he said he would recommend 
that the female population be increased 
unless a new dorm was built for them. 
hall basis decreasing the number of "Increasing the number of females on people tha't will have to be forced out of campus without increasing the the hall. available housing would not add to the 
For example, 25 students from St. problem we have now." 
Sinatra, Reynolds 
join Hope 
by Art Ferranti 
Bob Hope will appear with guests Frank Sinatra and Debbie Reynolds February 25 at the ACC announced John Plouff, managing director of the ACC, Friday. 
Ticket sales and show times have yet to be announced .and representatives of Hope, Sinatra, 



Poll released: to help 
future 0-C students 
by Butch Ward Editorial Editor 

A questionnaire concerning off­campus students' opinions of their present housing situation was released today by The Observer. 
The questionnaire, drawn up by sophomores Ed Byrne and Stan Car­denas of Alumni Hall, attempts to compile information athat will be useful to present on-campus students who are now faced with the problem of finding off-campus housing. 
Results of the poll, which will be compiled by the two students, should be delivered to either The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune or to the Off-Campus Housing Office in 315 Administration Building. All results should be turned in by Ji'riday of this week. 
Both Byrne and Cardenas expressed the hope that off-campus students would be willing to complete the questionaire so that studens now seeking housing off campus can avoid some of the problems already ex­perienced by those students now living in the surrounding area. 
Questions dealing with rent, landlord cooperation, food prices, and other expences are aimed at allowing campus dwellers some measure of comparison in their quest for housing. Byrne hoped that perhaps hall tenants now faced with the possibility of being forced off-campus will find some direcion as a result of the poll. 
Both polling students pointed out that aquestionnairereleased by the housing office earlier in the year received poor response, but they hoped that providing drop-off points instead of asking for mailed responses would increase the percentage of answering students. 
Extra copies of the poll can be ob­tained from either the Housing office or i The Observer·~ 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIUIIIIUIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDUIIIIIUI­
Off-Campus Questionnaire 
last name first name m.i. i.d. number class 
O·C address phone number 
Names of co-residents: (last names only) 

Total number or residents: Number of rooms? Monthly cost of rental?---------­Cost of utilities? ____ Average total cost per student per semester? _____ 
General condition of house? good__ fair __ poor __ 
What is your cost for food per week? ------------------­What do you use for transportation? car· bus _ bike _ other-----­
Do you pay 12-month rental or do you only pay for the months you actually occupy the house? 
How many total rooms does your house have? _____ bedrooms? Do you have any money-saving gimmicks to pass on? -------------­
Have you had to make repail"s with your own money that the landlord should have made? _____What were they? ----------------------­Do you feel your landlord has fulfilled his legal and personal responsibilities to you as his tenant? 
Why or why not? ____ 

Where do you feel the university could help you in .dealing with off-campus living problems? 
Do you have any questions you would like asked in future surveys? --------­
1 
1 
l 1 1 
l 
l ~ 
~ 
1 l 
I
and Reynolds are expected to come onto the campus in a few I 
'--.-nti&IX-S&I&ii il& ii!liiiforNDshow 
weeks. ·= a • 
~__j 
----------------~~~-~-----------~-----------­
.·. ·.. ~· ~-,.' ...~~ '· ', 

the observer Monday, February 4;-1974 

warld briefs 
HOUSTON (UPil-The Skylab 3 astronauts took one last spacewalk Sunday in their almost finished record trip to 1 etrieve rolls of valuable pictures of the sun and comet Kohoutek. Gerald P. Carr and Edward G. Gibson spent about five and a quarter hours outside the spacelab, whilt:: William R. Pogue remained inside to control the 118-foot station. 
LONDON mPil-British officials said Sunday that Prime Minister Edward Heath will seek to get union leaders to delay rhe national coal strike which is scheduled to start next Sunday. Heath is due to meet with the union chiefs Monday. Authorities predicted that a mines shutdown would result in lengthy blackouts, and would put industry on a 2112 or 2 day week. 
1111 campus today 
3:30 p.m.--o'hare lecture, "capitalism, the impossible dream," by prof. henry g. manne, library aud., free 
7 & 9:30 p.m.--foreign film series, "the good soldier schweik," eng. aud., free 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "the home and religion: atmosphere, customs, liturgy, prayer," carroll hall, madeleva mem., smc, free 
8 p.m.--perspective series, "elements and patterns of being," by 
donald c. williams, new biology aud., free 
8 p.m.--meeting, organizational meeting of prospective par­
ticipants on the history and philosophy of science. discussion 
with prof. edward manier on "darwin's metaphysical 
notebooks", library lounge, free 
8-11 p.m.--isis gallery opening, isis gallery, old fieldhouse, free 
Hopefully to expand 

by Susan Divita Staff Reporter 
Alumni Hall with it's eerie, yet realistic spider web and Farley Hall, incorporated into a glistening castle, share the first place slot in the booth competition of Mardi Gras, '74. Alumni donated their $50 prize money to the Mardi Gras committee for charity. 
Glee Club's gaudy green dragon snatched away a second place rating and the $25 prize, Stanford Hall's artistic castle third prize and $15 . Howard Hall's web design and Dillon Hall's mushrooms came in fourth and fifth respectively taking the $10 prizes. 
All the halls or clubs that enter Mardi Gras must enter into a contract at the beginning of the school year binding them to build and maintain their booths during the festivities week~ Besides this, they must pay $50 to enter. 
The designs come from gifted architecture students who take on the project beginning in the spring of the preceding year, once the committee decides on the theme. The actual construction begins about a week before the festival, when each booth must have five members down at Stepan Center working away. 
This year Mardi Gras chairman 
SG begins recycle plans 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 
Last week, Notre Dame Student Government began laying plans 
for an aluminum can recycling program that hopefully can be expanded to include glass, paper and other recycleable materials. 
The project is primarily a 1·esponse to the nation-wide conservational chorus brought by the energy crisis. 

! 
Stated Mary Clare Molidor, head of the project, "Most students are aware of consevational problems but they take little action to help 
right them." 
The project's plans include 
creating campus -located drop-off 
center for the cans behind the book store. If the single campus center does not work out as well as desired, individual hall drop-off stations may be set up. 
Cans obtained at these centers will be sent via the Observer van to Michana Beverage Company on Olive Street in South Bend. Student Government will receive ten cents for every pound of aluminum that Michana Beverage receives, which will be put toward · The Student Fund for Vietnamese Children a charity run by Yale 
Divinity School to provide medical assistance for child vic­tims of the Vietnamese War. 
If the can project is successful other types of conservational programs and recycling projects can be introduced. According to Molidor it was decided to 



Capitalism talk set 
"Capitalism: The Impossible Dream" is the topic of Dr. Henry 
G. Manne, professor of law in the department of political science at the University of Rochester, who will speak at 3:30 p.m. Monday !Feb. 4) at the University of Notre Dame. The talk in the Memorial Library Auditorium is sponsored by the Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture Committee and is open to the public. 
A director of the Foundation for Economic Education, Manne has served as chairman of the joint committee_ of Associa_tion of 

Arnerican Law Schools and 
Ar.1erican Economic Education, 
and as chairman of a special 
committee on Supreme Court 
decisions. He is a member of the 
Illinois and New York Bars. 
He has written several books, 
including "Insider Training and 
the Stock Market," "Economic Policy and the Regulation of Cor­porate Securities." 
The Cardinal O'Hara lecture series honors the first dean of the College of Business Administration at the University of Notre Dame, 
he way to buy the insurance you need but may feel you can't afford. 
For further information call: 33-3104. Talk to: 

Bob Roemer
Bob Roemer 
Class of '73 


Alun1ni, Farley take top Tolkien treasures 
begin the project with aluminum cans in preference to the recycleable materials, because of the very large quantities of beer canned in aluminum, consumed weekly at a campus such as Notre Dame. 
Volunteers to help organize and run the project are still needed. Interested persons should call 
either  Molidor,  226 Walsh,  
8082,  or  the Student Government  
office.  

The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester excep1 vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Stephen Boy hopes to break even or go above their $35,000 budget. Boy says construction costs have risen about 30 per cent since last year' and they are using every method to tighten security and make sure all the money is allocated into the right places. 
To get into Mardi Gras on a week night costs 50 cents a head. You must be stamped on the hand, and keep your ticket stub to get in the same night. Weekends cost 75 cents. The third alternative is a two dollar button which will get you~in any minute and day Mardi Gras is open. 
Boy encourages everyone to come and experience "Middle Earth," stressing the necessity to sell remaining J'affle tickets for a '74 Impala, which will be drawn Sunday, February 10. Boy states !hat if they can do at least 75 per cent of what they did Saturday night next Saturday, they will be in good financial shape. 
SHOE SALE 

Imported Men's Shoes and Boots 
Brown Suede Boots Reg. $12.00 Now $5.50 

Six Styles of all leather Men's Shoes. Reg. $22.00 Now $10 -$12 

TONY'S 
Shoe Shop 
Now in Badin Hall 





Acareer in law­
WilhOUIIBW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 500 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 40 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 

THURSDAY,FEBRUARY14 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
AC 0035 

Student Union Invites You To 


ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
1/2 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar

* 
Baggage handling &transportation to & from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
Reservations now being taken at SU Ticket Office Total payment of $270 due by February 14 (Valentine's Day) ... Questions • _call Sween at 3669 


------------~----------------------------------------~ 


by Ann McCarry Wire Editor 
This is the eighth in a series of articles by The Observer examining in depth each area considert"d by the Committee on University Priorities. 
Today's article deals with COUP auxiliary enterprises. 
The University of Notre Dame is known by all as an institution steeped in academia and de­dicated to the education of its students. (Academic disciplines, teaching and research facilities have been discussed in previous articles in this series.) 
The University realizes that it 
is also necessary to support an 
environment outside the 
classroom. For this reason, Notre 
Dame engages in various auxiliary 
activities with the intent of sup­
plying material, recreational, 
educational and cultural benefits 
to the university community 
outside the context of the 
classroom. 
Enterprises which could be 
categorized as such include varsity 
sports, the Hammes Bookstore, the 
Huddle, WNDU, as well as the 
personnel, buildings and grounds 
of the university itself. 
According to the Committee on 
University Priorities member 
Fr. James Flanigan, "COUP has 
decided to constitute itself as a 
task force to investigate auxiliary 
facilities-that is, any enterprise 
with an income attached to them. 
The goal of this inve:stigation by 
COUP," Flanigan continued, "is 
to decide which auxiliary en­
terprises should be directly af­

filiated with the University in 
Key COUP Questions 
Flanigan outlined a series of 
questions which considered 
through tout the study. First of all, 
are the enterprises profitable? If 
they are not, does the University 
have a responsibility to support 
them? 
This is important as the money 
made by auxiliary enterprises 
helps defray the cost of university 
operations. As an example, 
Flanigan cited the golf course, an 
unprofitable venture which the 
university feels a responsibility to 
support. 
Secondly, the committee will 
consider whether or not the en­
terprise should be associated by name with the university. Flan­
igan spoke of a taxi-cab company that was willed to the university. "It isn't called the Notre Dame taxi company. Unless an en­terprise fits into the academic nature of Notre Dame we question if it should be directly associated with ND." 
It is generally held that to justify University support of a particular operation, it should be of some educational value to the com­munity. 
Physical Improvements 
The first consideration of the committee on auxiliaries is the physical environment of the University itself. The report stressed the need for long-range planning in all of its concerns but especially in the area of ground maintenance and building. 
The responsibility of planning and construction of the University rests traditionally with the ad­ministration. COUP was, however, presented with building priorities by the administration, according to Flanigan, although they are not directly involved in the investigation of these programs. 
They include the enlargement of Kirsch-Wenniger Hall, the Psychology Building, and the LaFortune Student Center, The administration also sees the enlargement of the Power Planet and the Hammes Bookstore as imrnediately necessary. 
The administration also recognizes the need for other new facilities. The nature of these needs is not as crucial, however, and can be pursued only with the rec~ption of endowments. Among these are a chemical research building, a graduate student dormitory, more science and engineering laboratories and classrooms as well as improved fine arts facilities. 
COUP suggested that a standing 
committee be established to 
continually study and evaluate the 
function and maintenance of the 
University. Flanigan added, 
however, that "If there are any 
problems, they would be handled 
through the Board of Trustees." 

ACAPULCO! SUNNY 
86° 
IN CONCERT 
''QUICKSILVER" MESSENGER SERVICE With Speeial Guest 

MONTROSE 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1974 At The MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
7:30P.M. 
$5.00 ADVANCE -$5.50 AT DOOR 
TICKETS A VAlLABLE AT: 
The Auditorium Box Office, 12:00 to 5:00 P.M. daily, except Sunday; Pandora's Book Store; Boogie Records and at Disc Records in Elkhart. 

Staff Considerations 
Logically, the commitee next took a look at personnel . The main consideration here was to discern future and present inadequacies in the administrative staff. 
According to Joseph O'Brien, personnel department, most colleges and universities tend toward an administrative system which relies heavily on develop­ment and departmental chairmen and other supportive staffs. Instead the University employs a few dedicated and well-qualified 
SUMMER JOBS 
Guys & Gals needed for summer 
employment at National Parks, 
Private Camps, Dude Ranches and 
Resorts throughout the nation. 
Over 50,000 students aided each 
year. For FREE information on 
student assistance program send 
self-addressed STAMPED enve­
lope to Opportunity Research, 
Dept. SJO, 55 Flathead Drive, 
Kalispell, MT 59901. 
....YOU ML,;ST APPLY EARLY.... 
THIS STUDENT ,A,SSISTANCE PROGRAM HAS BEEN 
REVii:WED8Y TH£ FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 
Monday, February 4, 1974 
men in management and ad­ministrative offices. 
A management information system has already been set up and should aid in the study of this question. 
iLibrary Computer Use 
When one considers available learning resources at Notre Dame, 
the observer 

3 
the library immediately comes to mind. This resource center will be considered in another part of this series. This topic includes the Computer Center and Audiovisual Office as well. 
Computer facilities have ex­panded greatly on campus in recent years in response to the technological boom. An IBM 370­158 and approxima!ely 45 other terminals make up the present ND computer population. 
While  these computers  are  as  
equally  available  to  the  com­ 
(continued on page 6)  

ND-SMC THEATRE announces 

TRYOUTS 

for 
THE BEGGAR'S OPERA 
by JOHN GAY SUN, FEB. 3 lpm MON, FEB. 4, 7:30pm 
Callbacks: Wed, Feb. 6, 7:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC 
Materia I for singing and acting 
auditions available Speech & Drama 
Office Rm. 109 Moreau. 
Open to all ND-SMC students. 
How to Break Into Bankiag 

Talk to us. Continental Bank. The inventive bank. Where making new breakthroughs in bank_ing services is becoming a tradition. Continental is a bank that moves. We didn't get to be one of the world's fastest-growing financial service organizations by closeting ourselves in mahogany paneled boardrooms. We're involved in everything from Real Estate to Inter­national Banking, and a lot in between. We can't afford to be stuffy-and we're not. 
Continental is a composite of many individual and vigorous departments, each organized to give maximum incentive to its people. When you do well at Continental, you will be recognized -and rewarded. Because we intend to maintain our position of progressive leadership, you'll find us receptive to your new ideas. 
If you want to really break into banking, talk to us. See your placement director ~o set up an interview. Or, write the College Relations Manager, Room 2047, at Continental Bank. 
We'll Be lnlervlewing on Campus on: CCONTINENTAL BANK 
febrUary 14 &15, 1974 CONIINENTALILLINOIS NAIIONALBANKANO TRUST COMPANY OfCHICAr.tl 
t 231 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
~.-------·~-·-~.--~····-····-··-'~···-··~·······.·..·---------------------------'}. ..,___.____________________-+·~·----~·~·~,"-'~·."~~~~~:~·~---~-·~.~-~..ua_l-op_~_rt_u_n_lw_e_m_p_lo-~e_,_._._J_.__:_._._-_._.___·'·-'_·__•_·~ 
~ .' ,. ,. ,~ ; •. • ...~' • T 

~ ~'.·J.t"' ..., ....., • .,,.. ,.,. ... "1·"•'' ...·.··.-~/,.-)·~-~-~···"; ........_,' t ··-· .-.-· 
~ .. J. .' <I' ' .... >~ ' ... ~-: ·' ~-..... _.... -~ .... . • , .. ",\ ..... ~ J ~ -. . ......... t ~ 
·--~·-·~ ................. _._._,.,.-;_ ..... ~.JI ·-·~·~-.-..... , a:_...._...& • ...._,-1£....,.\oo---.o-.-----..... _ _......,........ 
, j 









THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER Jerry Lutkus 
Art Ferranti  Editor-in-Chief  Dan Barrett  
Executive Editor  Executive Editor  
Lee Gentine Business Manager  NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471  John Kloos Advertising Manager  

Monday, February 4, 1974 


The 0-C Arena 
Many students, as evidenced by the volume of mail the The Observer, are upset with the idea of having to move off­campus against their will. And that's easily understandable. Not that living off-campus is some kind of hell or punish­ment, but many students just don't want to live off and many are being forced off. There is still a healthy number of students who are living off because they want to and they seem to get along fine. But the students who have moved in­voluntarily aren't particularly happy with the idea and their displeasure is compounded from the start by the University's lack of aid to them. 
There are no detailed lists of housing besides the ones in the off-campus Housing Office. These lists give the bare details, but say nothing of a landlady's livability quotient or other important facts. Besides this, 0-C Housing Office does not have on file for students an approximation of costs for those who live 
away from the University. In the past year, approximately how much did you pay per month for food? How much did your utilities run you? How much can you expect to pay in rent? These seemingly vital questions are not documented in the office. 
The office made an attempt early in the year to get some response from off­campus students for their files, but the return on their questionaires was light and virtually ineffective. Since then little has been done. In fact, the 0-C Housing Office declined to circulate the survey found on the front page of today's Ob­server. 
If each off-campus house would fill out the survey and deliver it to either the 


A "Bill" of Thanks 
Too often, good works go unrewarded and unpraised. Such has been the case with may things at Notre Dame and in particular with excellent (and free of charge) Shakespeare Film Festival that was deftly organized and run by Professor Paul Rathburn. The festival offered students the terrific learning 

daanesbu 

~------------------------------------~ 
v:__. W&'R£ StJI?I<Y (/)~ 10 HAVE HEW WEi (!){!;! 1/P TH/5 PR£55 WANT /1 /iCONFEiR£NC13 FOR 1J1Ei 
50 t.ON6, 6AM!7. -........ /lEi !lAO 10 WO.RI< BRING tATE 71JNI6HT. .. 11111 ()(JT, 
JOliN!
~ 
"-­

experience of seeing the greatest of Shakespeare's classics put on film by the world's finest actors and directors. A vote of thanks is due to Rathburn and his department for their support of this festival. It is hoped that many other experiences like this can be offered to students here. 
Jerry Lutkus 
~:~arrytrudeau 

Observer office or the Housing Office, then a file can be created to give these types of information to students who are considering moving off-campus. 
But this is only the first step of a university action which should go further to help the o-c student. An Off-Campus Housing Union should be created. It should originate within the structure of the Off-Campus Housing Office, but it should be mainly manned by students who are concerned about o-c conditions. 
As a union they can compile listings of all housing available in the area. Then the committee of students would call all those students who live off campus and interview them about the qualities of the housing, the expense, the utilities, the services provided and the fairness of the landlord or lady. All of their comments could then be charted into a volume which listed housing and comments. 
It seems logical that most house owners would think twice about screwing students if they knew that their actions would be compiled, reported and passed on to students who would be renting the next year. The book could be updated on a year-to-year basis so that everything in the book was topical. 
This is an action that is important if the University cares at all about the students it is forcing off-campus. Also, the University of Notre Dame must face the facts and see that the housing crunch is not a one year occurance. They have the obligation to notify all students applying here that they are not guaranteed on campus housing for their four years here. 
That's the only really fair thing to do. 
Jerry Lutkus 
(/'-' 

@iY.-OKAY, tAOIEiS ANO 
OH,

/V' GENT/..fMfN Or 7JIEi PREiSS! 
(A))W. .. 

BtCAI/St YOV' ASKtP FOR Hl/'1­lf/.E. ''81/..1.." SIMON. rHE ENE!(.6Y CHIIfF OF TilE f/NITEP I 
OFM'eKf<('A/.f_..-.:ijJ 
,,

! •.• 
.Just A Feelin Housing the Problem tam drape 
For many, it is over. 
If you were due to have Lady Luck smile down upon you, then you probably made the "cut iine."If not, what else can be said,--sorry. 
The fall of next year will not find many of us in residence hall on the campus. The switch to coeducation and the subsequent need for female dorms caused a shortage in campus housing --for the second year in a row. Again, in response, the University initiated action to force male students to move off campus. This year the action came in the form of a campus lottery to determine quotas for the individual halls. For the chosen few -again-the situation can only be described as terribly unfair and unfortunate. 
Notre Dame has a total of 22 residence halls that have specifically been defined through the years as the backbone of the legendary Notre Dame community. Emphasis in University policy has been to keep students on campus in order that fraternal goal and atmosphere might be realized. 
The r:1echanics of the situation bear out the action taken. With only so many beds for so many men, a surplus of 883 students remain. The sacrificial offering was duetosome point and it has arisen in the form of forcing students off the campus which is becoming ritualistic and no relief in sight. 
Residence on campus has, without a doubt, been made more at­tractive with the arrival of women. Whereas not in the past, this is now the main feature of remaining on. Granted, three years ago, at an all male NO, it was a different story but times have changed. Un­fortunately, the University has not kept up. 
Most disheartening is the effect on the students of the second straight year and for who knows how many more to come. The alternatives are limited as well as discouraging. Unless a student is prepared to move off campus, which involves a social or financial desire, the transition can be murderous. 
Consider the alternatives: 
First, a student can accept his fate and begin looking for a room, apartment or house. If he uses the inadequate lists of off-campus housing made available by the University, he might as well quit before he starts. Other methods include talking to present off-campus students about landlords and locations or chasing through the daily want ads. 
Secondly, if and when they materilize, he can sign a waiting list for a bed anywhere on campus. It is possible that height be given.a room early as April or as late as August. This is where the sudent becomes acauainted with that undefinable, "sit tight." 
Third: overcrowding. Although the University has decided not to recognize it as an alternative this year based on such insightful reasons as noise factors and close living quarters, it is still better· than nothing. If a student being forced to go off campus is fortunate to have friends patient and understanding enough to take him in, then why r:'ust the University deny itsimplybecause they don't want it. The University as an institution r:1ay not be willing to go the extra step but the students certainly are. 
The first effect on the forced studentinhis relation to the Notre Dame is the r:1ost frightening. In what way will he now be a member of the Notre Dame community? By what means will be be able to relate the the University? Simply, who will he be able to turn to in the University for assistance and results in his undesired situation ? It is bad enough that these questions were not dealt with this year for they must not go unanswered. 
It would be poor arithmetic to deduct the long range effect the present situation will produce. In my Qpinion, both those being forced off campus and the individual halls are going to suffer. The halls willl suffer because the upperclassmen are the ones being turned away and with them goes the needed balance of experience and counsel that is so important to the present hall system. Rector's headaches may be just beginning as halls are gradually filled with aimless freshmen and searching sophomores. 
The general atmosphere of the Notre Dame will continueto suffer The separation of off-campus underclassmen from the University will continue to result in that "you-con't-want-us-so-we-can-do-without­you" attitude. · 
This is a situation not remedied by time. Unless Notre Dame wishes to expel coeducation, then a far-reaching, permanent plan of action must be initiated. Suggestions have included prefab housing, utilization of vacant Saint Mary's dorms, and, of course, construction of additional residence halls. For whatever recourse by Notre Dame, action is needed and needed now. 
The present passiveness of the students and, I would expect, the parents, will not continue unless plans are initiated soon to per­r.,anently resolve this problem. Answers are slow arriving and alleviation just doesn't appear, but the problem must be met and resolved for now and the years to follow. 
the observer 

Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Night Editor: Maria Gallagher Copy Editor: Rick Thues Day Editors: Mary Janca, Jim Donathen Typists: Claire Kelly, Camille Arrieh, 
Karen Hinks, Bill Menk, Jane Coyle Compugraphic: Phil Orshceln 

Night Controller:  Howard Halle  
Cusswords:  Fin  
.  If  
1  
.  i  ~  . . .. .  . •.  ~  ·, . . '  


Monday, February 4, 1974 the observer 
'ain't nothin' but a party' 
a review by pot small 
In order to relate and review the hap­penings at the ACC last Friday evening, it would be helpful if I clarified one issue. The way I construe good music and the manner in which groups such as J. Geils does is radically different. I prefer music that I can sit back and listen to and that arouses me through the music only. J. Geils, on the other hand, equates good music with high energy, fierce playing, driving beat and cajoles the audience into clapping, dancing, etc. Therefore, any comments or judgments I make with regard to this band are in the genre of their own music and by adapting myself to this genre, I found the concert most enjoyable. 
Duke Williams and the Extremes, who opened the concert, provided a combination of theatrics, hardening rock, and hard work. 
As a matter of fact, Duke Williams is 

purported to be (according to the members 
of his group, at least) the "hardest working 
man in rock." The Duke put on quite a show 
anyway with his unbelieveable fainting act 
and such unforgettable phrases as "if you 
gotta get funky, you act like a monkey." 
Hmmmmm. 
The music itself, which the group refers to 

as the Philadelphia sound (soul, r & b, 
modern rock), was generally bearable, 
apart perhaps, from their leader's gutteral, 
grating howls. The band was generally 
tight, particularly the bass and keyboard players, who counterpointed each other well. Lead guitarist T.J. Tindall showed his ability on "Chinese Chicken," spawning a few Kaukonen (Jefferson Airplane) type licks. The group possessed a big band sound which could be improved with the aquisition of a couple of horns. 
At any rate, Duke and the Extremes provided, at worst, an adequate warm-up for the featured act. While fairly talented (in some apsects) and lively, they might be just another band from Pa. 
The J. Geils Band, however, is not just another band from Boston. It was apparent, viewing the wave of excitement that swept across the floor as early as ten minutes before the show. The audience was already beginning to (forgive me) boogie by the time the band strode on stage and after a "wo-year!" (or "oh-yeah!" or "well­yeah! "-I'm still confused) from Peter Wolf, the band burst into "Did You No Wrong." It was evident that the band could do not wrong the entire evening by presenting their brand of high-energy, physical rock, blues, or whatever. 
The band seems to have changed in the 
past few years. Gone are the black t-shirts, 
black pants, and black leather jakcets, 
replaced by a number of glittery jackets. It 
took me about an hour to figure out why J. 
Geils himself looked different, until I 
noticed he wasn't wearing sun-glasses, a 
staple of his attire throughout all of their albums. 
If their appearance was slightly modified though, the style was the same. The band rolled through most of the new album and selected oldies with a ferocity. Lead singer Peter Wolf pranced and jumped all over the stage, in the manner of a masculine Mick Jagger. The band itself reminded me of an unsophisticated Stones, partially due to the similar influences in their music (r & b, blues). However, all other comparisons can be shoved aside, because the J. Geils band is in a category of its own. 
The major distinction that sets J. Geils apart from similar "boogie" type bands is the caliber of the musicians. It's one thing for a group to scream "get it on!" and the like and then go flailing away at in­struments which they've been playing for two weeks at the most. Not so with the J. Geils Band. 
Composed of a good rhythm section <Stephen Jo Bladd on drums and Danny Klein on bass so vital to their kind of music, and some muscular guitar from J. Geils, the group is additionally blessed with two premier musicians, Magic Dick on harp and Seth Justman on keyboards. Dick possesses s singular style of harp playing, oscillating skillfully between a couple of notes for a great effect. Justman is sheer joy in these moog dominated days. His slides and trills have the make-up of what a rock and roll organist should be. The focal point of the band is Peter Wolf whose gritty vocals and stage presence are the trademark of the band. 
A lot of msuic performed by them last Friday nite was taken from their latest album, Ladies Invited. Included were "South Side Shuffle," "Take A Chance on Romance," and "Chimes." This material blended well with their standard oldies such as "Hard Drivin' Man," I'm Lookin' For A Love," and "Wammer-Jammer." 
The encores were superb and featured their major AM hit, "Give It To Me." and their earliest recorded song, "Serves You Right To Suffer." Not to leave the audience with the blues, the group closed with another oldie, "First I Look At The Purse" which was only marred by the ACC's subtle way of saying good-night, blazing all the stadium lights on in the middle of the spng. While trying to reconcile my dislike for such boogie bands in general with my desire for writing a fair review, I think I found the answer. It was simple by going into the concert with a good attitude (or state of mind) and viewing it as a happening, something to enjoy both apart from as well as within the musical context. J. Geils summarized this type of event in the line of one of their songs-after all, "It ain't nothin' but a party!" 

Little Bit:~ Screen 


movie idols lead this week's films 
art ferranti 

It seems that the networks are trying to sooth those who have to pay taxes because the films this week range from entertaining to mediocre and there are a few in that latter category. And it seems they are also ain1ing at the insomniacs because the late night television on ABC and CBS also por­tends good things for the viewer. 
Anyhow, onto the movies. Clint Eastwood again returns as the Man with No Name in the third of his immensely popular spaghetti Westerns The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly Sunday on 28 at 6:30. Another Italian shoot 'em up, the movie is thin on plot, one­dimensional in characterization, and somewhat sloppy in scenic transitions (i.e. editing). However, with Eli Wallach and Lee Van Cleef, those who enjoy outright violence will revel in this film. I prefer a little more meat to a film and my idea of acting is more than the slight sneer and the mumbled dialogue that has characterized Eastwood. 
I suppose that the female box office counter-part to Eastwood is Raquel Welch. To carry the analogy further, she usually shows the same lack of acting ability as Eastwood but as with Eastwood for the girls, Miss Welch is a pleasure to the eye for the guys. And in Kansas City Bomber on CBS at eight Thursday she does most of her own stuntwork as a roller-derby queen (as a r~sult she broke a finger). It is a soap opera film_ but the derby scenes ~re excellent. 
there are good forebodings for this film. Again, to juxta-pose good with not-so-good, Ryan O'Neal and his ex-wife Leigh Taylor Young star in The Big Bounce tonight at eight on ABC in which O'Neal plays an ex­con . trying to go straight but who gets tempted by a bank job and his girl friend. The problem with this film is that neither the stars nor the old-hat plot could save it. A few of the bank scenes are good but they are the only bright spots in an otherwise muddy film. 
***** 

Charleton Heston stars in The Omega Man Saturday night on NBC at eight. It is actually a showy remake of Vincent Price's excellent The Last Man on Earth but not as eerie. Of course,-Heston is beset by Zombies and assorted· goolies. What ensues is stock adventure fare and is entertaining for the kiddies but boring to those accustomed to such antics. Warren Beatty, still another of Hollywood's famous leading men, cavorts with Susannah York in tonight's Kaleidoscope in which he is befuddled by her into conning by sharp card tricks Europe's largest casinos. It is all glitter and tinsel with the storyline about as shallow. 
Tomorrow night Jason Robards, Jr., stars in Clifford Odett'sThe Country Girl at seven 
Kevm McC~rthy {The Invaston of the Body' thirty on 16. This play centers on an ex­
Snatchers) Il? featured as her manager. 
***** 
Burt Reynolds, still a third box-office draw, stars in Sam Whiskey, a spoof on Westerns reminescent of Support Your 
Local Sheriff. This one, though, has itinerant Reynolds encountering Angie Dickinson and Clint Walker in an old mining town. It is not a great film, but what is sometimes lacks in flavor it makes up in with the magnetism of its stars. 
Jack Palance's version of Bram Stroker's 
Dracula gets another chance Friday at eight 
on CBS having been pre-empted its original 
airing. This Program .explores the 
background of the count, showing how_ he 
came to be such a nasty neck-biter .. P!!!ance 
did a TV version of Dr. Jekyll and Mister 

actor's alcoholic problems and the drama they create with his wife (played by Shirley Knight Hopkins) and his director (George Grizzard). It is a "Hall of Fame" presen­tation which·· ilmost automatically ear-. marks it as superb drama. Standard why-· doesn't-anyone-in-this-strange-town­believe-me fare is rehashed in Cry Panic, a made-for-TV movie Wednesday (seven thirty on 28). John Forsythe kills a pedestrian while driving but the body disappears when he goes for help. Earl Holliman plays the sheriff and Ann Francis lends a sympathetic shoulder. Can Ellen be Saved? pren1ieres tomorrow, another made-for-TV piece that has John Saxon trying to save Kathy Cannon from a religious commune whose chief is Michael Parks ("Then Came Bronson") only she does not want to return to her father (Leslie Nielson). At seven thirty on ABC, one 
Hy~e a few years ago that :was super~,. f!O.• sho.uld run away froro this film, .but turning the dial to the Odett's drama is a great deal easier. The final prime time film is Elevator with James Ferantino, Carol Lynley, and Myrna Loy trapped in a guess what, on "The ABC Suspense Movie" Saturday at 7:30. 
***** 

The late night viewing is even better this week. Tonight Glenn Ford plays an ex­gunfighter challenged by Chad Everett in Th~ Last Challenge at 10:30 on CBS. It is more of a battle of Ford's knowing the reality of the West versus Everett's brash and murderous enthusiasm. Wednesday John Hu_ston's crime masterpiece The Asphalt Jungle is rerun after a decade's hiatus from the screen. This movie, which is said to have made a star of Marilyn Monroe, traces a robbery and its wrap-up in a tight script with a great deal of Huston action. Sterling Haydon, Sam Jaffe, and James Whitmore all lend strong portrayals to this film, considered by many a milestone in the crime movie genre. James Garner plays the Raymond Chandler detective Phillip .Marlowe in Thursday's: CBS late night entry Marlowe. A few murders and a missing person lead the laconic detective on a fairly complex trail that keeps the viewer guessing until the somewhat anti-climactic ending. Carroll O'Conner plays his co~ nemesis and the late Bruce Le«~ exercises his karate skill before Garner polishe;; him off. It is based on Chandler's book Three Sisters 
***** 

Friday's late film is not 'willard as The Observer film guide (which we actually have nothing to do with) has reported. My other two sources indicate that Dr. Jekyll ­Sister Hyde (a realloser)is schedUled: But do not despair. The Night StraJ'Igler; last years' sequel to The Night Stalker is slated for ABC at ten thirty. D11rrin McGavin returns as Carl Kolchak and happens upon some grisly murders in Seattle this time that lend themselves to strange cir­cumstances. With Simon Oakland returning as his boss and JoAnn Phlugg joining in, the chase culminates in a souped up version of 
Seattle's underground city (which actually exists but the history of which is too long to relate here). Channel 16's late films Saturday and Sunday are a pair of Elvis Presley rock-abouts butfans of his will injoy them I, guess. Frankie and Johnny and Follow that Dream are the two respective titles. 
***** 

Bpecials: Mitzi Gaynor, Ted Knight, Jerry Orbach, Cliff Norton, Suzanne Pleshette, and Jane Withers host a salute to housewives at eight on 22 tonight. Tomorrow, NBC News probes the Navy and in particular, Adm. Elmo Zumwalt at nine. Don Rickles gets roasted in a ninety minute Dean Martin roast at eight thirty Friday on 
16. Two new shows premiere this week. "The Cowboys" airs Wednesday at seven on 28, a spin-off from the John Wayne film and "Good Times" begins a television run Fridays at seven thirty on 22, a "Maude" spin-off featuring Esther Roole as Maude's ex-maid Florida and John Amos (he played Gordy the weatherman in "The Mary Tyler 
Moore Show") as her husband. 
***** 

Notes: As a public service, this column 
will list but not review any movies ap­
pearing on the campus for the next week. 
All notices with times and dates must be in 
my box at the office before the Friday 
previous to this column's printing. No 
descriptions, etc., will be written here due to 
space allowances but it is free advertising. 
.Trivia Questions: Here are five Bogart 
questions: 1) Who was Sam Spade's partner 
in the Maltese Falcon? 2) What did Bogey 
permit Lauren !3acall to do in his office in 
'The Big $1eep? 3) What did Bogart lose in 
They Drive By Night? 4) In what film does 
James Cagney gun down Bogart and then 
die on the steps of a church himself? 5) 
What did Claude Rains throw in a trash can 
at the end of !Casablanca? 

".ial'eM AI{J!A JO ariloq e (S '88JlU8Mi 
,IUJJDO'H 8'1~ (t 'twe 'lqSp S!q (f: t'~t 
Jal{'llf:ll8Jag (~ '.xaqJJV 8af!W (1.:£U8Maui\ 




r 

Andy Powell and Ted Turner, twin lead .guitarists f~r ~is.hbone 
Ash, trade licks during a jam on "Phoemx" at Morns C1v1c last 
Thursday. {Staff photo by Joseph Abell). 



COUP: the extras 
(continued from page 3) 
munity as the library it had come to the University's attention that the need for this facility is not as widely applicable. Because of the large computer budget (ap­proximately one million dollars annually) the committee has recommended ' that two com­mittees be established. 
The first of these groups is to be constituted of outside consultants to determine and assess the needs, use and controlled growth of the University in its mem­bership, will also consider operational questions and confer with the executive management boards of the Computer Center. 
The Audiovisual Department at Notre Dame is one of recent Notre Dame does not depend as heavily as many larger univer­sities on devices and teaching methods of this nature, it is 
committed to the optimum use of the facilities at hand. 
COUP suggests that the
Audiovisual Office conduct an 
inventory of all avilable resources

l and then proceed to decentralize 
I ~ , the facilities, making them morepractically usable by all parts of the University. To promote these 
measures, the committee also re­commended periodic instruction 
for all faculty members concerned with the use of such equipment. 

t I 
Involvement in the Media 
Notre Dame is also closely associated with the media. For several years the university has supported five intellectual journals such as the Midland America Naturalist and The Review of Politics. These journals are of great scholarly value and are noted internationally as well. This international acclain1 makes it possible to carry on an exchange with many foreign nations which arcount for many of the serials a'. ailable in our library today. The cc mmittee decided to support 
I The Thomas A. ~ Dooley Foundation is Working.... 
in Cambodia, in Laos, in Nepal, in the hearts of millions. 
®
for information : onhowvoucanhelp:
Write P.O. Box 1195 
South Bend, .Ind. 
these journals continually. 
The University of Notre Dame is also affiliated with the University Press which publishes scholarly books, special studies, symposia, paperbacks, and supplementary readings for students and other miscellaneaous books. 
After an in depth report the committee suggested that an editorial board be set up to 
(continued on page 7) 

Peace CorpsNista 
Representative Bernice Roy will be at the 
Adm. Bldg. -Rm. 223 
Tuesday & Thursday 
2:00 -4:30 For more information Ci'll 283-8138 
~~""""""""""""""""""""""""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7====l,
• t A d. S · t•sts
In answer 0 U .10 pecta I •••
* Pioneer SX 727 
*Dual 121 8 (complete with W /B, OC, cart) *Two Large Utility Advents ALL fOR $620.00 ALL NEWI 
Other items available 804 FLANNER 283 -1487 at low prices 
** *NOTICE* * * 

Applications now being 
taken for the position of 

The Observer Editor -in-chief. 
Submit all resumes to Jerry Lutkus at The Observer office no later than Today 4:00pm. 
• " l • • • • , .. • ·:·:~~••<~ .•~.../' _.-t". 

Ash: not appreciated 
About the only thing Wishbone Ash didn't have last Thursdat night at Morris Civic Auditorium was an audience that appreciated some of their best efforts. They sure had everything else: skill, rap­port, you name it. 
Unfortunately, though, they also had two things that may have contributed to that audience-­ience's disinterest: over­amplification and lack of new material. The wall of sound that assaulted listeners' ears in an auditorium too small for that kind of power may have been the chief contributor to a lackadasical response that lasted nearly three­quarters ~llrough the show. It was simply too much, especially after warm-up band--Climax Blues Band had had their amps even higher. 
It's really too bad, because so much good music went to waste. 
After a less-exciting intro of "Vas Dis," the band slipped into "The King Will Come," one of Ash's strongest pieces, with a new, clever opening. Though it was disappointing to hear a 2-year-old song still played without em­bellishments, the verve and energy with which it was played almost outweighted the di3appointment. 
"Warrior" 'llld "Sometime World," the 1atter being one of Ash's most dynamic songs, also failed to get rise from the 
audience, something that was getting to the band members by then. It wasn't until somewhat weak "Pilgrim" introduced a small jam session that a response heartened both players and listeners. "Blowin' Free," an 
A review by Joseph Abell 
equally-weak song buoyed by Ash's better-than-usual ex­citement, finally injected the proper enthusiasm for the quality of the show. 
Thus, the stage was set for the feature piece, the perennial favorite "Phoenix" from Ash's first album. Enhanced by a jam that exceeded any the group has done in a long while, the song was the perfect topper to the show. Stretching well over 15 minutes, 

MEETING 
FOR ALL THE 


FRESHMEN 
WHO WISH TO JOIN THE 

STUDENT MANAGERS ORGANIZATION 
Mon., Feb. 4, 197 4 ACC Auditorium 
7:00 m
..-­
AN EVENING WITH 

•
Rod

McKuen 


IN CONCERT· FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 22 • 8 PM! 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM· SOUTH BEND, IND. RESERVED SEATS $4.50-5.50-6.50 
Now on sale at Morris Auditorium Box Office, or by mail. Send payment with self-addressed, stamped envelope to: McKuen, Morris Aud., 211 N. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
Special Notre Dame-St. Mary's Discount! 
$1.00 off each ticket. Purchase discounted 
tickets at Morris Auditorium Box Office! 
"Phoenix" dispelled any doubts about which band was more professional that night. Even the single encore •couldn't let the crowd down as they danced and clapped in the aisles. 
The only fault in the show was the noticible lack of new material. It must be hard to tour and prom-­ote a "live" album that's basically a rehash of old music, but the least the band could do is write something new. 
--------------·-'-·.~.~..~.~~------------------------------------------------------~·~~-~---~ 

.·. ~~ :·.. ,.~ ...';:.).:·.. -~...:·..J:._,·:·~ ---.. ---~ ,~. :,.:(_~..:~· ~.~. -:__~~·:· ~~5-l,\ 
... ..' ! I' the observer ·-· ·-----_····-;
.· Monday,· February•'4;•1974 
MEN !··WOMEN! 
JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience

Auxiliary enterprises checked out required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect sum­

(continued from page 6) 
establish a new editorial policy aimed at enriching the quality of the publications and cut costs if possible. 
Press Director John Ehrmann 
Irish split 

(continued from page 8) 
However, with Williams off for interference, Israelson scored his 20 goal of the season and the fourth shorthanded goal of the season for Notre Dame, Nyrop assisting, at 
7:35. Walshfinished his first hat trick at Notre Dame (and the third of the season for the Domers) at 12:37, tipping home a Steve Curry shot. 
Brad Becker got the goal with the Irish down two men at 17:17, but Walsh finished his outstanding weekend and first games after an injury seven contests ago., taking Paul Clarke's pass and giving it to Hamilton for a goal at 19:44. 
The Irish outshot the Sioux, 75­53, and as a result, Waselovich outsaved Kronholm, 38·27, for the game. 
So, the Irish return home one place lower and with one more loss, but in the process, the Irish upperclassmen learned a geat deal about and from the freshmen. Hopefully, the self-confidence Ian Williams talked about earlier this week will start to grow from this 
lesson painfully learned. It is still not too late. 
reports that the committee will have its first meeting along these lines this week. 
"The Board is in the process of discussion and tackling these matters," he said. Ehrmann also said that even with the cost of­materials and composition going up the press has been able to diminish expenses. 
"We have been able to cut cost through more competitive printing bids, also," said Ehrmann. 
Through a separate corporation, Notre Dame is also involved with WNDU television AM and FM radio. At the onset of the endeavor it was thought that the station could prove helpful to several academic programs of the university and at the s-ame bme turn valuable profits back into the University. Neither of these goals has been fulfilled and the com­mittee is currently considering whether or not te university should be involved with the station. This matter will be under scrutiny by the committee this year. 
Athletics at ND 
Perhaps the best known of N :. "auxiliary functions" is its program in varsity athletics The University has a long tradi • nasa leader in organized natn>D:al sports and has always stood f.!lr sport-r.,anship on the part of tl1e player the University, and the SJ;ectator. ' The University has a long tradition as a leader in organizeJ national sports and has alway~ sto0d foi sport_manship o~ th~ part c.i the play e.·, the umve.• sity dnd the 

spectator. The University is dedicated and will continue to uphold the ethics of fair play in all areas, working to guard against the exploitation of players and toward the equal participation of women in all sports. 
Notre Dame is so committed to the value of athletics, both in­tramural and intercollegiate, that it would support them even if they were not_ profitable. Sports, however, IS one of the most suc­cessful of the University's en­terprises. 
The University allotted 1.8 million dollars for athletics last year. The ref.Jafir-'investnienfis 
even lar~·er_.,.·-~ As Funlk Dolson wrote recently in th" Philadelpi)ia Inquirer,"It cos.ts mon:::v to be Number 1. Lot!' of money.· _ Unfortum•:ely,_not-.:~rfOf the University'~..• '!'(rnary functions are as finan&cHly sound or as predic • ble as its athletic prof · 1s. Through careful eva~ .ation and along range pl ting COUP hopes to stabilize 
tfu.n injured 
Sister Anne L. Bailey, 63, a Lewis Hall resident, was treated at St. Joseph's Hkpital for a head bruise suffered in a two-car ac­cident at 11:15 p.m. Saturday at 
N. Michigan and Navarre Sts. Police said she was a passenger in ::1 car driven by Lyonne s. Arnault, 23, also of Lewis Hall. 
Arnault was charged with failure to yield the right of way. 
mer job or career. Send $3.00 for

this situation, making the 
information. SEAFAX. Dept. 6-F,

University's auxiliary en­
P.O. Box 2049, ~art Angeles, 
Washington 98362.

terprises more beneficial in the 
future. 

r· --------------------------------------------------­

CLASSIFIED ADs--~ 
WANTED 

Need girl to share apt. Ne;y-r campus. $50 per mo. 23~45. 
Reasonably reservec'' ~culty or grad s•udent >o D).'':.~y 2nd BR at Park JelfP:,on. First BR .·ccupiec' l)'y new faculty n1em~r. 283-6660. 
FOR RENT 

Furnished apt. for rent. 3 rooms plus bath. sao per m.;nq,_ plus utilities. Couple preferred. Call 259-0930. Between 6 and 7 pm. 
FOR SALE 

Petrie FT2 35 mm. FLR camera with 200 mm. Lentar lens plus •wo filters. $130. 683­7792. 
Advent 201 cassette deck, Pioneer SA SOOA amp. Call 
1487. 

Wilson classic golf clubs, bag, balls and !ees. Less than year .·ld. Best offer. 8428. 
Hockey tonight Grace tower Gorillas vs. the Sorin Sardines 
12:15 at the A. C. C. 
! _/ 
I_/ /" PERSONALS 
Dear "D<m'l Ask Me" Big eyes and black hair is still after you. 
Hustler: Soupose we go double ,,r nuthin'. I kneed my pride away and need it back. 
Madame Fifi's special: 2 for 'l1e price of one. WE AIM TO PLEASE! 
CROWS: Good luck on rise to stardom. See you at Madison Square Garden ! 
"Your Groupies" 
NOTICES 
G.P. Majors: Applications now being accepted for philosopher kings lo rule island republic in Mediterranean. Icons, robes, crowns and peasants provided. 
If you want to study in Greece come to talk to Mrs. Raphael Demos, director of admissions for COLLEGE YEAR IN ATHENS. man. GFeb. 4 2-4:30 pm. 361 O'Silag. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost ladies gold Bulova watch. Between N. Dining Hall and B­P. 8813. 
F,Jund Keys with Astroplate in 
C-3. To claim call Tony 287­
5396. 

) ~ 1 _.__~ 
I 
_I I 


I 
Phone: 2!;9-0880
Shop: Monday-Satu·day 10·10, Sunday 10·8 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka
'};"e Old Kamm's Brewery 
LONDON PARIS ANTWERP. ROTTeliDAM. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. TORONTO. MONTREAL. 
VANCOUVER NEW YORK. BOSTm MIAMI. PHILIDELPHIA. CHICAGO. DETROIT. PITTSBURGH. HOUSTON. DALLAS PHOENIX Sl"l FRANCISCO. SEATTLE. LOS ANGELES 




20%ott 

-----------------~-------~·------------------------~----~--------===========~==========~. 

Stoneware Sets 
Sturdy_ stoneware. Patterns and warm colors you'tllove! 20 pc. sets lor 4 and matchong completer sets-all at a 20% savings! Here's the tableware you've always wanted! 
20 pc. set for 4 5 pc. completer set Reg. 34.99 Reg. 19.99 
Now 27.99 Now 15.99 

Sale! 
SET 1\ COlORFU~ TABLE. ··~.ll.ni·· ,torw­'1.\~Ht• t1\ "ont.lh.t• I lliJ...,tnnt•. Ru. h vl'llo\\ .1nd <hw ol,lll' hrtl\\11 d,.,l~n. Rold. dur,1ble 
.1nd dJ,h\\ .l,ht'r ,,1ft• ' 
4i P< "'' $79.99
tor I!.. 
20 pc. set for 4 5 pc. completer set Reg. 39.99 Reg. 21.99 
Now 31.99 Nc1w 17.59 
20°/ooff
regular price! 
Bask in gold-trimmed glassware 
Gold and glass drinkware that 
radiates a sunny Mediterranean 
mood. 3 warm Spanish patterns. 
Valencia, Cannella, and Antigua. 
Tumbler, hi-ball, and wine shapes. 
Buy them from open stock. Make 
a soft golden glow! 
$1.43 • $ 3. 19 
Reg. $1.79 -$3.99 

FANTASTIC STONEWARE VALUES TO CELEBRATE A GRAND OPENING! 
"Autumn Breeze" 
-~ . -.. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. .. . . . . ... .. . 

stoneware cellar 
Located in Pier 1 Underground (Mony Pottern5 to Choo5e From ­Sets arid Open Stock) 

the observer Monday, February 4, 1974
8 
•

Novak leads ND to 15th WID, 95-84 

Goose and Shu close in on 1,000: Irish play at State tonight 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
-....,__ As far as fourth-year forward Gaioy :\j;~k was concerned, Notre Dame's 16th basketball game of the season couldn :.Eave come at a better time. -, And as •~ as coach Digger Phelps and the rest Q£ the Fightt~g Irish cagers were concerned, Novak couldn't have picked a better time to shrug off the of­fensive doldrums which have plagued him during the first half of the 1973-74 season. Novak, the 6-7, 195-pound "Goose" in Notre Dame's starting \ine-up, carried a meager 5.7 ppg. average into Saturday afternoon's contest--an average which in­cluded an oh-for-eleven seasonal streak at the free throw line. But by the time the Irish had notched their 15th win of the season by defeating Daividson 95-84, Novak had taken big steps toward hiking both his scoring average and his free throw percentage. The slender senior finished with 17 points (seven of eight from the field, three of five from the line) and contributed six rebounds for added effect. But it was the timing and not the quantity ofNovak's point production which helped Notre Dame's victory stand up against a determined Davidson comeback. Novak spun a lay-up off the glass to give the Irish a seemingly comfortable 20-point lead, 78-58, with 8:15 remaining. But seven minutes later Wildcat center Larry Horowitzscored to cut the spread to eight, 88-80, and the once­comfortable margin was in very real jeopardy. But it didn't remain that way for long. Novak sailed through the lane with 1:36 left and swished a hook shot which put the Irish back into a 10-point lead, 90-80, and tallied a single free throw 20 seconds later to ice the win. And just for good measure, "Goose" found Gary Brokaw free under the basket with only 14 seconds remaining in th~ game, hit him with a picture pass, and Brokaw scored from in-close to make it 93­84. "Did Goose play well?" com­mented ND's Digger Phelps, "what did he have, 17 points? Yes, I'd say he played well." "I just took the shots when they were there,"said Novak. "I was a little more relaxed today than I've 
been in a while, and that made a difference, I's sure. As far as the free throws go, it was really get­ting to be kind of funny. I'd go up to the line and miss one ... and then I'd go up and miss another one ... but I think I'll be able to snap out of it now." 
But Novak's individual show, : imely though it was, was over­shad~wed by two team displays which 1\ept the outcome of the contest fir~t in doubt,then a seeming certt<ipity, then doubt again. 
Davidson scratched ouN!p early 4-3 lead two minutes and 17 seconds into the game, when Sheldon Parker, a solid 6-8 cente1 threw in a rebound of his own missed shot. The 'Cats held onto their lead until 10:59 remained in the half, but then Novak hit a short jump to make it 15-14, ND. 
The two teams then traded scores, but the Irish took the lead for good on Gary Brokaw's bucket ten minutes before intermission. From then until the 8:15 mark of the second half, Notre Dame romped back and forth across the ACC floor with serene disregard for their Davidson opponents. 
John Shumate, playing without the company of freshman Adrian Dantley, scored 26 points and pulled down 14 rebounds during the contest, and sparked the Irish fast break during that long spell of mid-game control. And when Shu was on one end of the ND break, Brokaw and Dwight Clay were usually on the other. 
The two guards combined for 43 points (24 of them belonged to Brokaw) and eight rebounds, and they, along with Shumate, threatened to send the visiting Wildcats scurrying back to North Carolina before the second half was even 10 minutes old. 
"Notre Dame is a very good, strong ball club," said Daividson coach Terry Holland "Even without Adrian Dantley they really take it to you on the boards." 
"In their second-half spurt, Clay was just playing a super ball game. He was all over the court and making the big baskets. We tried to help out on Shumate, too, but when you do that someone else is going to hurt you." 
And during the early part of the second half the Irish did just that. A lay-in by Brokaw and three quick 20 -footers by Clay pushed ND into a 21-point lead, 71-50, with 10:28 



Gary Novak, here guan.ling a Davidson p\~yer, had his best offensive showing of the season against the Wildcats on Saturday. "ionioht, he and ~he Irish travel to Michigan to meet a highly-improved Spartan squad, 76-74 victors over Purdue. 
left. Then, two minutes later, 995th t:ilreer pwnts--squashed their the Irish ll.ne-up. Dantley, Novak pumped in his hook shot to upset h?pt7 for good. <, sidelined because of dehydration make it 75-58. "Davidson i:: a good, scr~py since Thursday's bout with 
But the Wildcats awoke at that ball club," said Pmh~ -'t"';,a.ev
P"· DePaul, did not even suit up for _-.
point and set about dismantling the were agressive and never quit.Irish cushion. Larry Horowitz But we were a little careless .~ii~bl!t Phelps r·_<ti£ds his banked a five-footer off the glass getting back on defense there, and prize freshmaJ11~reo.-•v to go with 4:22 left to make it. a we gave up a few quick points to against the,;· Spart~~ !7i'.-74 
seven point game, but then Clay help them close the lead." winners ~ainst Purdue~ on-and Brokaw pieced together a The Irish, now 15-1, must meet Saturdavl.-i! ight seven-point burst to make it 86-74. Michigan State at East Lansing . __....--' 0~ . · The 'Cats rallied frantically during tonight. But when ND squares off _ The ND-MichJgan Stat. game 
the final three minutes, but against MSU, forward Adrian .. may be heard on WNDU and Novak's hook shot-1-his 994th and Dantley will probably be back in WSBT beginning at 7:55. 
WalshS heroics save leers 
by John Fineran North Dakota's freshman goalie, The bulge reached· four (6-2) at 12:52, and the little center, along 'Jefore Walsh went off for slashing Whoever said freshmen couldn't with Alex Pirus, set up frosh 1t 15:43. At that point, one of the play immediately in the WCHA defenseman Roger Bourque's first lisguntled fans threw a liv.e had rocks in his head. At least, he ND goal at 16:31 for a 3-2 Irish !hicken on the ice, and although 1t didn't know what he was talking lead. ih•:oired the Sioux to their last about. The newcomers for both It didn't last long. North p"al<with the Irish down two n1en), Notre Dame and North Dakota Dakota's Tin\ Schroeder, another J'\D sc"ambled one home in the last 
showedtheupperclassmen that this freshman, scored on the powerplay mt)'IUte !Ji the game. adage is worthless as the Irish and at 18:32. Clark Hamilton was off J,~l>h coa"h Lefty Smith, who Sioux split a weekend series in the ice for tripping at the time for wa; indeed less than satisfied with hisclub's performance on Friday,
Grand Forks. the Irish. Friday night, North Dakota's Notre Dame took a 4-3 lead at ma!e two changes for the game 
2:37 of the second period when Pat whicl. figured in the victory. Billfrosh led by a three-goal, second Conroy fed junior Ray DeLorenzi Nyrop ve!).k..f,w.m. center back to
period outburst by Roger Lamoureux, defeated the Irish, 7-5. in close for a goal. However, just defense, and Ric Scllaterweiir'tne-­
But Brian Walsh's hat trick on 20 seconds later, Lamoureux otherway. Saturday night spirited Notre started his personal vendetta The two teams skated to a 1-1 Dame to a 7-3 win and helped keep against the Irish. first period score, but the Irish the Irish out of the WCHA cellar. The Irish missed a three-on-two could have easily made it in their 
Of the 22 goals scored both scored break nine minutes into the period, favor. The Irish shooting ac­both nights, 18 came off freshmen and North Dakota countered with a curacy in the firstperiodmatched sticks. successful one of its own. the minus-10 degree reading 
Notre Dame is now in eighth Lamoureux got a rebound in the outside the Winter Sports Center. place (8-11-1 for 17 points), one slot and shot it by Mark Kronholm As a result, Waselovich made 20 place lower than before the series. at 9:29. His third goal of the period saves to Kronholm 's nine. 
The Irish returned home last night make it 6-4. Walsh scored his first goal of the to begin preparations for their Each team scored in the third game, again at 4:50, when he shot a weekend series in the A.C.C. period. Les Larson was detected rebound past the Sioux netminder. 
tripping, and 13 seconds after the
versus Michigan State, losers And in similar fashion, the Sioux twice to Michigan Tech. penalty, at 1:58, the man he got the tying goal in the eighth 
Lamoureux's third goal Friday tripped, Evans, scored~ Larry minute of the game as freshman night at 18:00 of the second period Israelson finished the evening's center Terry Dennis, on feeds from proved to be the winning marker scoring with a goal at 5:54. AI Hangsleben and Evans, scored as the Sioux completely dominated Notre Dame tried valliantly to at 8:45. the Irish throughout the contest. come back, but was thwarted by The Irish again took the lead and 
Waselovich. Waselovich, who had
Walsh opened the game's kept it this time in the second scoring at 4:50 with his first of two chosen Grand Forks over South period with the two goals 15 
Bend, ended up with 33 saves while
period-one goals. North Dakota seconds apart, starting at 14:27 Ian fought back to a 2-1 advantage by Kronholm made three less. Williams made it 4-1 at 3:15 of the 
The Irish made sure they didn't
10:06 on goals by freshman Tom last period off feeds from Eddie 
Evans (first of three powerplays lay an egg for the second night in a Bumbacco and Schafer. Fresh­goals )and Dave Gawley <70 foot row as goals by Walsh and Pirus 15 man Bob DePiero cut it to two at slapshotl. seconds apart in the second period 
6:16. Walsh tied it, however, beating a · Saturday night gave the Irish a 3-1 
(continued to page 7)
rebound past Peter Waselovich, lead. 







