--~~-----------~-------­
~-----~
~---~-----------------­
~ [81 Special election issue[81 [81 
OD The Inside 
Brademas vs. Black ..•page 3 
Proposed amendments .•. page 11 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 41 Monday, November 4, 1974 
In St. Joseph Com1ty

General election to fill 28 posts
by Terry Keeney News Editor 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's students registered in St. Joseph County vote tomorrow in the General Election. On the ballot for the precincts encompassing both campuses are 28 elected offices (including approval of five state judgeships l and three constitutional questions. 
Notre Dame students living on campus can vote in the Rathskellar of LaFortune Student Center, not in Stepan Center as in past elections. The Election Board moved the site to LaFortune because of its central location on campus. 
St. Mary's students can vote in the west entrance of Augusta Hall. 
Off campus students must vote in their local precinct voting centers. Students who do not know their polling place or precinct can contact the office of the Board of Elections for St. Joseph County. 
The polls will be open from 6a.m. to 6 p.m. at all locations. 
Important Senate race 

In a contest of national interest, incumbent Indiana Senator Birch Bayh is being challenged by Republican Mayor of Indianapolis Richard Lugar. Both candidates have made several appearances at Notre Dame and both have stressed the state of the economy in their statements. Lugar has categorized Bayh as a "big spender" and thus an advocate of inflation-causing governmental deficit spending. 
Bayh is his last appearance on campus October 22 proposed extensive campaign reform legislation. He stressed the importance of restoring con­fidence in the political process. 
"As long as there are those who doubt the people who run the government, the confidence in solutions to other problems like inflation, poverty, and pollution is shaky," Bayh said. 
American Party candidate Don L. Lee is also vying with Bayh and Lugar for the Senate seat. . 
In the Third District Congressional race, incumbent Democrat John Brademas faces a challenge from Republican Virginia Black. Brademas, who has served 16 years in Congress, has campaigned on the issues of election reform. ending of military ai{i to Turkey, and his past record on education. 

Black, whose husband Anthony is a history professor at St. Mary's. has stressed her anti-abortion 
stance. She has criticized Brademas's reform bill and em­phasized the importance of the economy as an issue in this elec­tion. 
State House races 

Robert Kovach, former president of the Mishawaka Common Council, is the Democratic candidate facing William Bontrager, an Elkhart lawyer, for the District 11 State Senate seat. 
In the race for State Representative, voters must 
• choose two of the four candidates. 
The two Republican candidates, Robert DuComb and Richard Lindsey, are incumbents. Elizabeth Ann Bauer, daughter of State Senator Burney Bauer, is seeking her first elective office. Richard Bodine, one-time Speaker of the House, is seeking to return to the House. 
In other contests for state office, Larry Conrad (D) is running against William Allen <Rl. The State Auditor's race pits Mary Aikens Currie (D) against Jean Merritt <Rl. 
Jack New (D) and Randall Miller <Rl are vying for State Treasurer. Billie McCullough (D) faces Pat Yoho <Rl in the race for Clerk of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals. 
County Commissioners 
Richard Larrison, Democratic nominee for County Commissioner in the first District, faces Republican Jack Ellis, an Indiana Bell executive from Granger. 
(continued on page 2) 

Bayh vs fugar 
Senatorial campaign considered 'too close 
by Marlene Zloza president's resignation and the limit on spending, 2) Better State spending has also been a abortions only in cases of rape, Managing Editor recent presidential pardon, Lugar accounting so that citizens popular issue with the two can­incest, to save the life of the has lost ground in his uphill battle and Congressmen didates. Lugar has blamed Bayh mother, or when a "predictableCompeting in a hard-fought to unseat Bayh. know at each step how much has for Indiana's position as last in malformation of the fetus" can be 
campaign considered "too close to Bayh, now serving his second states receiving Federal funding. shown.
been appropriated so far, and 3~ a
tell" on the eve of the election, six-year term as Indiana's junior new attack on the "un­Bayh countered this charge with Bayh has stated his personalIncumbent Democratic Senator senator, has been a staunch op­controllable" items, which Lugar the argument that although he can opposition to abortion, but b& Birch Bayh and Republican ponent of Nixon, while gaining considers programs that are help to make Federal funds stopped short of supporting a law hopeful Richard Lugar have national recognition for his Senate funded for several years at a time available to the state, this money to abolish it. According to the blanketed the state challenging performance. and renewed automatically must be brought into Indiana by Senator, "all of the legal and and debating each other on a Bayh led the Senate fight op­without adequate review. the state legislature, which has medical questions on abortion 
variety of issues, most of which posing both Haynsworth and In contrast, Bayh considers the turned back millions of dollars. have not been answered and he concern economic matters. 
Carswell for Supreme Court petroleum crisis the main cause of would not now vote for a con­Their race for U.S. Senator nominations. He was also a suc­the nation's economic ills. The In addition to their differences stitutional amendment to forbid 
from Indiana has become of 
cessful sponsor of the 25th Senator has pointed to the vast on economic matters, Bayh and abortions. 
national importance in this par­Amendment, which provides for Lugar have diverse opinions on
array of products and industries Both candidates express some
tisan election year. Because 
replacing a vacancy in the vice­that dependon the petroleum several other controversial issues. oppositon to the practice of schoolLugar, the current mayor of In­presidency. situation and have been hurt by Bayh has devoted a large portion bussing . The difference indianapolis, was once considered The one topic that has occupied drastically increased prices. Bayh of his campaign advocating positions is very clear. Lugar op­President Nixon's "favorite most of the candidates' time and therefore favors a rollback of oil reforms in campaign financing poses all school bussing, while 
mayor," he had been tauted as a interest during the campaign has prices, and excess profits tax methods, while Lugar has not Btyh favors an amendment to the tough challenger to the more been the economy. Both consider focused on large oil profits, and addressed himself directly to this latest Education Act which would liberal Bayh. But since the this the top priority problem facing closing tax loopholes such as the oil issue. (continued on page 12! 
the country, but each has very depletion allowance. Bayh has outlined a broad and separate ideas for solving it. complete reform bill that would Concerning the general include a strengthening of the According to Lugar, the main economic conditions, Bayh sees as income tax check-off provision to 
cause of inflation is deficit spen­national priorities halting the provide full public financing of ding by the Federal government. rapid rise in the cost of living, Presidential elections from small 
Lugar's plan for halting inflation cutting the unemployment rate, voluntary contributions; a new includes bringing the Federal and increasing productivity. series of Federal laws to preventbudget into balance or surplus To reach these goals, Bayh has political "dirty tricks;" and added 
through budget reform, cuts in all come out in favor of Congressional penalties for those who fail to discretionary budget areas in­pressure the Federal reserve to report campaign contributions and cluding defense, public works, and ease current interest rates to give expenditures accurately. Bayhhuman resources spending; and an the homebuilding industry an has also publicized his own action ' opening up of so-called "un­opportunity to recover, in releasing to the public all per­controllable" budget items. He Congressional monitoring of ex­sonal financial statements and tax also favors tax credits to en­port policicies to avoid domestic returns since 1969. courage capital reinvestment and scarcities and inflationary On the abortion issue, the stands redirecting individual spending pressures on critical materials, taken by the candidates differ to toward servicable items instead reducing the national budget in some degree.of consumables. areas such as defense without Lugar has called the SupremeAs for the budget reforms, the endangering necessary assistance Court ruling "far too liberal," and Indianapolis mayor's steps would levels, and a tax cut coupled with advocates a more limited law. 
entail, 1) some fixing of a yearly loophole-closing tax reforms. Lugar's position would allow 
Bayh



the observer 


McLaughlin discusses candidates 
Editor's note: The Notre Dame Student Government, in con­junction with the St. Joseph County Voter Registration office, registered 1800 new local voters in a thrf'P-day drive in September. Thf' drive was bPgun to create a studt"nt vote on the issue of lowering the drinking age in In­diana. The following interview with Student Hody President Pat McLaughlin discusses the can­didates· for State House of Ht"prt"sentatives and the State Senate and the erfort to pressure the statt" IPgislature to lower the drinking age. 
q: Which l"andidatl's irnpn·swd .nlll must in lht•ir· JH"l'st•ntaliuns'.' 
A: The candidate that impressed me most was Mr. Bodine who, because of his experience, seemed to be aware of everything on every issue. He stood out from every candidate, first of all. And second of all, he was speaker of the house from 1966 to 1970. He'd only been elected for the first time in 1962. That kind of experience, especially for someone in this district, is the kind of experience we want. 
Mr. Kovach also kind of im­pressed me. He was very short. Everybody else gave long drawn­out answers. He was short and to the point and said what he thought, and his reasoning was pretty good. 
Mr. DuComb-I didn't have that much chance to talk with him. He seemed up on things as did Rick Lindsey. 
And Miss Bauer, she's the only woman of the group, she wasn't what you would call impressive, but she knew where she was at. 
I thought all of them were good. But I was really impressed by 
Candicbtes listed 
Bodine and Kovack. 

Q: Is the drinking age your number 1 criteria in judging these can­didates? 
A: Yes and no ... Yes in the sense that it'sthe most important thing we asked all of them. And no, because we can't judge them because five of the six of them <the state state representatives and state senate candidates from the Notre Dame district) are in favor of lowering the drinking age. 
It's an important criteria in the senate race because Kovach is for it, and Bontrager is against it. Since it is our most important thing, we'd like somebody in there who will vote for lowering the drinking age. Kovach is the one . 
As far as theHouse race goes, all four candidates are in favor of lowering it. The two incumbents. the two Republicans, voted to lower it before. Voting to lower and their influence on other members could be quite significnat. That's why I'm im­pressed with Mr. Bodine. 
It's said that if the Democrats carry the House there's a good chance Bodine will be Speaker of the House. And that's the kind of person we could use in there, somebody right from this district who is concerned about lowering the drinking age, and then be in a position to influence, such as the Speaker's job. 
Q: Are you trying to encourage students to vote on the basis of the drinking position? 
A: I'm not trying to encourage them to vote any way at all. I'm just saying that most of the students thathave asked me have been most interested in the drinking thing. Many of the stuaents that registered were most interested in the drinking thing. 
Q: So then, the goal of the registration drive was the drinking age? 
A: Yes. That is why it was begun. 
Q: And your participation in the election as far as the state races go, is mainly as a result of the drinking law? 
A: Yes. 

Q: You brought only state House and Senate candidates to campus simply because of the drinking age? 
A: Yes. 

Q: How aware are students on other issues and other candidates? 
A: I don't think they are that much aware at all. It's kind of sad that they aren't really up on all the issues, but there aren't that many issues that affect them. Certainly the alcohol thing will affect them. There's a lot of problems with security off campus, but then again nobody has the answers. 
There's a lot of people on campus concerned about Indiana passing the Equal Rights Amendment. That was one of the questions asked of all the candidates. Two of the Democrats were for it. Only one of the Republicans was for it. DuComb was in favor of it. Lind­sey said no; Bontrager said no. Miss Bauer, the Democratic candidate for representative, said shewasn't sure, but if she had to vote on it now, she would vote for it. That's certain~y a difference. 
Q: ERA will definitely be an issue in this next session of the legislature? 
A: I think so. Right now there are 33 states that have passed it and they only need five more to ratify it. Indiana rejected it once already 
Students vote tomorrow 
(contimwd from p<tg<' I) Notre Dame and St. -Mary's students living on campus must choose between Walter Mucha (D) and Frank Mulligan (R), the two candidates for County Council from District B. Off campus students residing directly south of the Notre Dame campus are in Councilmanic District G. Candidates there are Thomas Catanzarite <D> and Edwin Smith (R). William E. Voor (D), County Prosecutor for two terms, is running for re-election. His op­ponent, Republican Wilfrid J. Mayette, has served under Voor as Deputy Prosecutor. Incumbent County Sheriff Dean Bolerjack faces opposition from Republican Nester Stachowicz, director of Security at IUSB and veteran of 20 years on the South Bend Police force, and In­dependent Harold Morgan, a nightclub owner and former county police officer. In other county races Democratic incumbent W. Joseph · Doran is opposed by George Nicholos for Clerk of the Circuit Court. Democrat Eugene Basker 
HARQ.D MEDOVV 
USED CARS AND TRUCKS 
•

LaFayette at LaSalle Phone 233-2129 
faces Republican Carolyn Metzger for County Auditor. Roman Korpal <D) will vie for the County Assessor post with Ruth Hoover 
(R). 

Portage Township offices 
The Notre Dame campus and part of the surrounding area are in Portage Township. In the race for Portage Township Trustee, Frances Welch (R) faces AI Paszek (D). 
Six candidates are vying for three seats on the Portage Ad­visory Board. They are: Republicans Edwin Howard, Lois Kress, and Jack Smith; and Democrats Elinor Andrzejewski, Joanne Broden, ·and Zigmund S. Dombkowski. 
Five candidates are running unopposed for various offices in Portage Township. 
Judgeships 

Voters must also decide whether to retain three Indiana state •court judges and two St. Joseph County judges whose terms have expired. The judges will win another term in office if the electorate votes their approval in thsi election. 
The ballot submits three Con­stitutional questions to voter referendum. Question 1 deals with the method of c.odification of state laws. Question 2 provides for the election of Governor and Lieutenant Governor as a joint ticket. Question 3 deals with the make-up of the state militia. 
It's Time for V\bmen It's Tirrefor Democrats 

Vote For 

Elizci)eth Ann 

BAUER 
State Hepesentative 
and it's going to be coming up again. On some of these other issues, everybody is concerned about what taxes are going to be like because we pay taxes, just like everybody else, especially the sales tax. That was increased 2 percent since we've been here. 
It is obvious that the major is~ue is drinking. I'd be fooling everybody if I said anything else. 
Q: Is your goal through all this participation in the election and the voter registration drive to make the Notre Dame student vote a powerful constituency? 
A: Yes, well, it's about time somebody listened to us, first of all. We have about six to seven thousand students here and they are spending their money here and their time here. There is no reason why they shouldn't vote here. 
Q: How do you plan to follow up after the election with the can­didates who are elected? 
A: That really hasn't been discussed yet. First, we want to see who is elected. Some big factors are who's going to carry the House, Democrats or Republicans. It will be easier to work with the candidates we elect depending on whether their party is in power. There's a good chance the Democrats will take over, at least in the 
the Senate. But that's something that we will have to see. What we'll do afterwards is we'll start contacting the other schools and start writing all the legislators to find someone to sponsor the bill. And then we'll see. 
Q: So the voter registration drive was just the first step in the process? 
A: 
Right. We've come this far. We've come 

A: 
Right. We've come this far. We've registered 1800 students, so let's not let it slide there. A lot of people have put a lot of time and a lot of trouble to get that many people registered and to register themselves. I just hope we don't !let it fall. 



ATTENTION GIRLS 
(GUYS TOO)
10% OFF ON ALL WINTER 

Monday, November 4, 1974 the observer 
In Third Indiana District 


Brademas faces Black for district position 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

Democratic incumbent John Brademas will be challenged tomorrow in his bid for re-election to the Third Indiana District seat in Congress by local high school teacher Virginia Black. 
The Brademas campaign has emphasized the congressman's achievements during his eight terms in Congress. Last year, Brademas was chosen to be Chief Deputy Majority Whip in the House and currently chairs two House subcommittesson Education and Printing. 
Throughout his political career, Brademas has been recognized for his leadership in the field of education. Having written much of the federal legislation concerning elementary,secondary, vocational and higher education, he has been called "Mr. Education"by many of his congressional colleagues. 
A principal sponsor of the 1972 Higher Education Act, Brademas recently told area high school students that federal financial aid programs are often "un­derutilized"because students aren't aware of what assistance is available to them .. At an October 29 address at South Bend St. Joseph's High School, he noted that Congress has worked to bring more financial aid to middle-class students. 
"I for one believe strongly that everyone able to benefit from higher education should have a chance," Brademas said,"and the fact that Congress has insisted that middle income kids be included is solid evidence that the American people think so, too." 
Brademas has also been active 
recently urging the end of sup­
plying military aid to Turkey. As 
chairman of the Printing sub­
committee, he has also held 
hearings on the disposition of the 
Nixon papers and tapes. 
The new campaign reform bill, 
which an•a Brademas represen­
tative Frank Sullivan (·ailed a 
"substantial legislative 
achievement," received input 
from Brademas through his 
participation on the House Ad­
ministration Committee. Sullivan 
praised the reform package as"providing strict financing limits for candidates in national elections." 
Black called the reform bill "unrealistic"and proposed the adoption of the British system for financing campaigns.. Black said the British government allows candidates to spend only $5,000 on campaigning and provides equal time in the media. 
Attacking the reform bill's $70,000Hmit on campaign as being much too high, Black noted she would spend less than $10,000 on her campaign. She also com­plained that incumbents benefit from having various privileges stemming from the powers of their offices and said, "No way is it equitable for other candidates." 
Black also criticized Brademas for his stand on liberalized abor­tion. "Abortions are now costing the American taxpayer $50 million every year," she stated. Black pointed out that Brademas has twice voted to spendfederal money for abortions. 
"I am opposed to the taking of 
life and will support all legislation 
to outlaw liberalized abortion," 
Black stated. 
She observed that the abortion 
controversy is not normally a 
political issue, but the Supreme 
Court decision to allow abortions 
"threw the problem into the 
political arena." She added that 
her strong opposition to liberalized 
abortion was a major factor in her 
decision to run for Congress. 
Brademas aides disputed 
Black's charges that the 
congressman is pro-abortion. 
Administrative Assistant James 
Mooney noted the issue needs a 
"thorough airing before a decision 
is made by the lawmakers." 
What we are talking about is an amendment to the Constitution to overturn the Supreme Court decision and this is a very serious matter," Mooney "tated. 
According to Mooney, Brademas has asked the House Judiciary Committee to begin hearings on the abortion issue and will weigh their recom mcnctat ions before making a decision. Mooney noted that Brademas' voting record in Congress has reflected neither favor nor disfavor for liberalized abortion. He added that abortion is 
not the foremost issue in this election. 
Both candidates agreed that the country's economic crisis is the most important issue in the election. 
Brademas attacked President Ford's proposal for a 5 percent tax surcharge for middle-income taxpayers. He suggested instead that Congress should "plug all tax loopholes and make everyone pay their fair share." 
Brademas has also advocated massive tax reforms and a reor­dering of Ford's spending priorities. The congressman has been especially critical of policies which send money to South Korea, 

Rrademas Chile and Turkey for military 
***********************************•
* * TOM * *
* *
* * 
~ CATANZARITE :
*
* ~ 
a DENOCRAT ~ ~ Young --interested i * * 
: Indiana Univ. Grad 1974 i 
: county cxuril DISI1Ucr G :


i MACHINE NO. 16A 
purposes. 
Black blamed the Democratic Congress for the current economic 1 problems.. She agreed with Brademas, though, that Ford's proposed surtax should not be passed by Congress and called the surtax "gouging the little guy." 
Black advanced a three-step approach to curbing inflation. "First, the Democratic-controlled Congress must eliminate deficit spending," Black stated. She said the current deficit is $428 billion and labelled the deficit as a significant factor in inflation. 
The second step, according to Black, is to cut federal spending by two percent jn all programs where such a cut would be possible. 
An increase in productivity is the third solution to the problem, Black said. "There are simply too many dollars chasing after too few goods and " she observed. 

a 
' 

Black also advised the "return to the Protestant work ethic of; an honest day's work for anhonest day's pay."Black aid Brademas' promise to close tax loopholes is not consistent with his record as a 16-year congressman. "I don't know why they haven't chosen to close the loopholes before," she stat~d. 
The energy shortage, Black noted, could be alleviated by developing full technology for the use of coal. She called America "the Saudi Arabia of coal" and estimated there is enough coal in America to supply the country with energy for three generations. 
In discussing other campaign issues, Black charged Brademas with voting against legislation which would allow prayer in public schools. Black vowed to "work tirelessly to bring prayer into our schools." 
The nomination of New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller for Vice-Presedent drew support from neither candiate. Black noted that Rockefeller has been rejected three times by the Republican partly as a candidate for president. 
She noted that Rocketeuer vetoed anti-abortion legislation in his state and was " a tremendous big spender" as governor. Also, his wealth makes it likely that Rockefeller will have interests conflicting with his office, Black stated. 
According to Mooney, Brademas initially thought Rockefeller was qualified for the positon but is now disturbed by Rockefeller's "throwing his weight around." 
Brademas received $500 in campaign contributions from Rockefeller and his family. 
Mooney said· Brademas has devoted much of his congressional career to increasing government care for "vulnerables." 


220 W. Marion -Elkhart 
Serving Michiana's MIIStc Community for 25 yea'rs Special Student Discount Bring your student I~ 
BOB DuCOMB has done more than just talk about education. In the last legislature he helped pass the bill giving state scholarship assistance to private and church-related colleges and universities. 
BOB DuCOMB was effective in getting IUSB the budgeting change they needed for better funding. And he serves on their Advisory Board. But Bob's interests go beyond the school yard...just as yours do. 
BOB DuCOMB has championed effective environmental protection. He's firmly in favor of the Equal Rights Amendment. He endorses the Right To Life movement. He voted to lower the drinking age in Indiana, since he believes in full rights and responsibilities for 18-year-olds. 
BOB DuCOMB has a contemporar~ point of view. He's a young lawyer, active, open, and uncommonly productive. The Indianapolis News ranked Bob among the topfirst-term legislators. 
In the Statehouse, and here at home... 
when BOB DuCOMB for 
R-..... ~RT ]. DuCOMB, Jr. 
Republic ::n for State Representative MACHINE-NO. 9-B 
Paid for by Volunteers for DuComb, 
lames Dettling, Treasurer 
************************************ 
Disagree on student issues 

State Senate contenders vary in opinions 
by Theresa Stewart Starr Reporter 

Candidates for the State Senate in District 11, William Bontrager and Robert Kovach do not agree on most student issues. Bontrager, a Hepublican lawyer from Elkhart, and Kovach, a secondary school teacher from Mishawaka, running on the Democratic ticket, ex­pressed conflicting opinions on reducing the drinking age, ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment, the landlord-tenant problem and the drug laws. 
Bontrager, in his first race for elective office, said, "At the moment, I just cannot buy lowering the drinking age." He cited the increase in 18-21 year-i>ld rape and auto accidents in Michigan, which lowered the age limit to 18 recently. Bontrager added, "A car is a dangerous vehicle, an 18-year-i>ld has only two years of driving expreience and is physiologically not as 


capable as an adult in handling drinking and driving.'' 
Kovach, President of the Mishawaka City Coouncil for two years, pointed out, "If they are going to make 18 year-i>lds equal citizens, then they should be consistent." He qualified this stance by saying, "From a practical standpoint, a 19 year-i>ld vote would have more of a chance of passing the legislature." 
Concerning the Equal Rights Amendment, Bontrager, a member of the Indiana State Board of Correction, recom­mended a review of some recent court decisions, detailing a case of a discriminatory pregnancy clause which was overruled. He used this as an example that the ERA is not needed. 
"Speaking as an attorney, if you pass an amendment, automatically all 300 statutes in Indiana become questionable. It took 100 years to get a definitive statement and enforcement for the 14th Amendment (the Civil Rights Amendment> and we will be in court for another 100 years trying to find out what this amendment <ERAl means" he predicted. 
Kovach feels the situation in the 
4country calls for the ERA. "Some say state laws will change things but a constitutional amendment is a more permanent, more lasting thing, a healthy thing for the contry," Kovach stated. 
In regard to the off-eampus burglary and landlord dilemmas, Kovach believed the city is going to double up police in the heavily student-popluated Northeast area. "As far as housing goes, we have tougher housing codes in South Bend--Mishawaka than anywhere else in the state," he said. Kovach stressed the role of student leadership, not state action, to improve the quality of off-eampus housing. 
Bontrager blamed the housing conditions on the political mess in the City-County Building. "It's who you know that determines whether you see the housing in­spector or not," Bontrager said. He supported the idea of a State Housing Agency which would remove local politics from the housing situation. 
Bontrager hasn't made up his mind about the decriminalization of marijuana, though he very definitely draws a line between a consenting adult user and a seller. "I think a strict-controlled legislation on hard drugs can be helpful in cure programs," he added. 
Kovach, voted a city-wide Councilman-at-large after two terms as a Mishawaka Council member, doesn't think the full impact of marijuana is known yet. He would support a reducction of penalties for the first, not the second, offense for possession of marijuana, "I don't think decriminalization of marijuana would be accepted," he said. 

Referring to the recent Indiana Supreme Court decisions on un­derage drinking in which an adult is held responsible for a minor's delinquency, Bontrager quoted Charles Dickens, "If that is the law, the law is an ass." 
He elaborated, "If you had a student drunk out of his mind and a "father" passes by him and doesn't grab him, well I don't see it." Bontrager reported that the Supreme Court of Indiana has backed away from the cases where the adult has been sued for providing alcohol to a monor because the record did not disclose enough evidence. 
Bontrager is married, has three sons, graduated from Indiana University with a Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education <1963) and a Jurisprudence Degree 0966) and has a general law practice with the firm of Bontrager and Spahn in Elkhart, Indiana. 
Kovach graduated with an MAA from Ball State and taught Social Studies in a South Bend­Mishawaka High School for ten years. He observed, "Because of my expreiencein city government, I have seen the problems develop at a local level which I feel need some solutions at a state level. With seven years of City Council experience behind me, I believe I am attune to the problems of local governemnt." 
Kovach asked for the suppport of the ND-SMC Student Body, em­phasizing the commitment he feels to Notre Dame-St. Mary's. "When 
I make a commitment, I am not 
going to vascillate or fluctuate in 
that commitment," he promised. 
Kovach predicted the most important issue of the campaign is the frozen tax rate and levy, which does not provide for a deceont wage for city employees, cuts back on people programs while the three school corporations in this District cannot keep up with inflation. He advised using some of the surplus from the property tax relief fund to help combat these problems. 
Kovach called into question some of the activities and opinions of his opponent. "Bontrager does not believe in dedicated funds for the state, but without them the states and cities could not func­tion," he contested. Kovach charged that Bontrager said yes on the lottery at a meeting of Police and negated that to a Methodist Church Group. Kovach added, "Bontrager's Corrections Com­mission has not made one recommendation to the jails." 






NOVEJ.VIBER 5 
* RICHARD L. LARRISON 
COUNTY COlV.IJ.VJISSIONER 1sr DISI'Hicr 
* WAL1'ER A. MUCHA 
COUNTY COUNCILMAN DISfiUCfB 
* ROBERTL KOVACH 
1 
,. 
SfATE SENATOR DISTRicr 11 
i 
i; ,. * ELIZABEI1H ANN BAUER 
I 
·I SfATE REPRESENTATIVE DISTRICf9 
:l:, 
jl 
ri * RICHARD C. BODINE
;i 
II 

j, 
DISTRICf9 
Monday, November 4, 1974 
the observer 
5 




Three vie for County Sheriff office 
by Jeanne Murphy Copy Editor 

Dean Bolerjack: candidate for County Sheriff, Democratic Party, seeking second term in office. 
Nester Stachowicz: candidate for County Sheriff, Republican Party, running for first term as sheriff. 
tiarold J. Morgan Jr.: candidate for County Sheriff, Independent, running for first term in office. 
Both Bolerjack and Stachowicz call for a professional police department. Both are highly experienced trained police of­ficers: Bolerjack is presently serving his first four years as County Sheriff; Stachowicz is acting Director of Security at IUSB. Bolerjack is a former police chief; Stachowicz retired from the South Bend department as a captain in 1972. 
Both men know what it takes to develop a professional police force, and both men aim to fulfill their programs to make the county police department as efficient and skilled as possible. 
Morgan claims that morale is low among county police officers because of the present merit system. He is calling for a change in the merit system. 
role of county sheriff 

The sheriff is the chief law en­forcement officer of the entire St. Joseph County. It is the only law enforcement office dictated by the Constitution. 
The county sheriff's jobs are many, but according to Bolerjack, the most important ones are to enforce the laws of the federal, state and local governments, to maintain the county prison, and to serve the county courts. 
"The sheriff must have a ·cooperative understanding with all cities in the county," Bolerjack commented. 
The office of County Sheriff is a four-year term with a two-term limit per elected offical. It is a full­time salaried position. 
Bolerjack 

Bolerjack plans to continue the same policies he has enforced through out his first term in office to improve the county police force. "I intend to do as I have done in the past four years as sheriff--to maintain a professional police department, to cooperate with all agencies, and to keep the county clean with reference to vice," he stated. 
In his first term the Democratic candidate for sheriff obtained benefits for policemen that they never before received. He acquired a pension for retired officers at age 55 and also life insurance for all men on the force. Bolerjack claimed that he im­proved working conditions for police and made possible in­creased salaries. 
Bolerjack intends to continue using a professional radio comm­munication system which he established. "Patrolmen should use radio language as it should be used," he commented. 
When Bolerjack began his term as sheriff, thirty men in the department had no official training. Now there are only two men without training, the two most recent recruits, and they will begin school in the near future, Boler­jack stated. He hopes to continue formal educating of officers to further develop a professional force. 
Bolerjack also plans on initiating an investigative bureau to thoroughly research the work in the law enforcement department. 
To rid the county of vice is a major goal for Bolerjack. He contends that the vice rate in the county has decreased considerably within the past few years and plans to "continue keeping up with the times as best we can in cleaning the county of vice." 
A graduate of Notre Dame and former school teacher Bolerjack was police chief and trooper and spent four years in the South Bend force. He worked with the FBI and was a member of the State Legislature. The sheriff is a resident of Mishawaka, Indiana. 
Stachowicz 

Nester Stachowicz is also calling for a more professional police force as well as more security and safety for all citizens. "Security and safety work hand-in-hand. Where there is no security, there is no safety," Stachowicz com­mented. 
"We need a professional organization in order to deal ef­ficiently with common problems," he stated. "When the police work professionally, they can work effectively." 
Other items in his platform in­clude: 
Representation-to establish a board representing citizens from the entire county drawn from such groups as PTA's the Better Business Bureau, clergy and ministers, and youth oreanizations. This six-member board will meet monthly to discuss 
WE WANT 
YOU 
ro WIN 1HE 
FI.FCitON 



VOI'E REPUBLICAN 
The St. Joseph County REPUBLICAN CENTRAL COMMITTEE William T. Means, Chairman 
police force. He was an instructor hopes to cooperate in certain areas 
until 1969 at the Indiana Law of security.Enforcement Institute and the Stachowicz intends to work 
South Bend Police Academy. hand-in-hand with Pears if he wins the elction. He will cooperate with ND security like a regular police 
Stachowicz resides 
department. Stachowicz resides in South Bend. 
Morgan sole independent 

cooperate with ND security 


Monday, November 4, 1974
the observer
6 

Four candidates seek House posts 
by J<:lll'n Syburg Staff Rt'porter 

The race for state representative in Indiana's 9th House district offers four candidates, two democrats and two republicans, for the two seats to be elected. 
The democrats who are seeking to unseat the two republican in­combents are Elizabeth Bauer and Hichard Bodine. Bauer, who is seeking her first elective office is a former grade school teacher now working for a soft water service. Bodine, who lost a bid for lieutenant governor in 1972, served four terms <1963-70) as a 9th district representative. Bodine, a · lawyer, was elected Speaker of the I louse during his second term and minority leader for his third and fourth terms. 
The republican candidates both of whom seek their second term as state representative, are Robert Ducomb and Richard Lindsey. Ducomb is a 1967 graduate of In­diana University Law School. Lindsey, a 1971 Anderson College graduate, was the youngest member of the legislature during his term. 
The candidates of both parties met in separate sessions with representatives of Notre Dame government and the Observer. They discussed the issues of the campaign, especially those of interest to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's students. 
Indiana's present law sets the drinking age at 21 and all four candidates favor some change in the requirement. Ducomb and Lindsey favor 18 as the legal drinking age and supported such legislation during their first terms. 
Bodine stated that he would vote to lower the age to 19. He said, "I'm hesitent to lower it to 18 b<·cause many 18 year olds are still 111 oigh school. By age 19, a person is Pither in college, married, in the service or working and any of 'h• e carry adult status and should :1 ' adult privileges." Bauer ·I t•t..Jd favor a law to lower the age ·n :9. "More of an argument can l1e made that a 19 year old can handle this resposibliity," said Bauer. 
Rodine added and Bauer agreed, "From a practical standpoint a 19 year old limit would be much mo~e likely to gain successful passage m the Indiana legislature," Bodine said. 
The candidates differed in their views on the Equal Rights Amendment <ERA) which was rejected by the 1973 session of the state legislature. Lindsey stated, "I don't think the ERA is necessary. We have enough laws to insure the equality of women already. It would serve as nothing more than a policy statement and policy statements don't belong in the constitution." Lindsey ex­pressed the fear that ratification would nullify many state laws. "It will take many years and many court cases to interpret the amendment. We don't know what its total effect will be," he added. 
Bauer stated, "I am undecided as to how I will vote on the ERA. It takes away state power and grants it to the federal government. Women may lose some of their privileges if this goes into effect. There is a commission working now to determine its effect and I will wait to see their report before I decide." 
Bodine. and Ducomb will both 
vote in favor of ratification. 
Ducomb said, "It's too important 
to be ignored because it may 
produce some court cases. It won't 
go into effect until two years after 
it is ratified and that is enough 
time for the states to prepare." 
Bodine stated, "The country won't change fast enough on its nwn without it." 
The candidates, asked what the state representatives could do to help the Notre Dame off-campus student, offered some solutions. Bodine stated that the landlord­tenant relationship needed "toughening up." "We ought to see if we can do something for the tenant who because of his situation cannot afford an expensive legal l>attll' with the landlord," Bodine said. 
Lindsay stated he is \l'illing to meet with representatives of Notre Dame to discuss the problem and see if legislation is needed. 
Bodine also explained that he had met with South Bend mayor Jerry Miller to discuss the problem of burglary of 4udent housing. "Miler realizes the problem and feels they are making an effort to 


I l 
solve it. I think they are but I for possession for a first offense. 
would advise you to keep the The incumbents, Ducomb andpressure on them, explain your Lindsey, were asked to explainproblems and then you'll get their votes on two bills that hadresults," Bodine said. 

been considered in the last term. One of the bills, which was passedAsked if they would favor the in 1973 but was vetoed by Governordecriminalization of marijuana, Bowen, would allow countyall of the candidates replied that prosecutors to utilize wiretaps with they would not. They opposed the approval of county judges.
legalization of the drug Both voted in favor of the bill butbecause not enough evidence had now regard it as a "mistake."

been gathered to judge its effect. All of them did agree that they Ducomb stated, "I would vote would favor lowering the penalty against it now in light of the recent abuses we have seen." Lindsey added, "We were caught up in a 'stop crime' wave and we're lucky the governor vetoed the bill." 
The other bill, which is now in effect, designated the death penalty as mandatory in cases of murder of a police officer, prison guard or murder in connection with a kidnapping. They both voted in favor •of the bill and ex­plained that they felt it was necessary as a deterrent for these crimes. 




DICK 
SON 
DEMOCRAT FOR 
... 


FIRST DISTRICT COMMISSIONER 

REPRESENTATION: "Government as it ought to be." 
Our country was formed in the struggle for fair representation in government. Public officials everywhere have to make clear again that government serves and stands for people or respect for it will vanish. Some steps that will help: 
• 
Commissioners' meetings where all three Commissioners are always present or represented. 

• 
More efforts, through open meetings, to discover citizen ooinion and account to it in major decisions, such as revenue-sharing. 

• 
Careful attention to board and commission appointments in an effort to include those whose interests are at stake and not exclude them from being heard and having a vote. 

• 
Rapid and accurate answers to questions and complaints of individual citizens. Such citizen service gets things done and it builds trust in government. 



These are changes in everyday government, not frills, not big budget items. They will make county government more like the wayit ought to be. 
PLANNING: "The future is written in the unsorted information about the present." 
I will put dedicated citizens to work planning for our com­munity, and I will put planning to work in close support of daily county government. I will re-examine the whole range of boards and commissions for which the County Commissioners have responsibility. 
When we put public authority in a citizen board. we have to install balance and concern as well as competence. That's the kind of board that works. It can put together plans and programs which ring true to the needs and opinions of the people. and its members should be heeded by the elected officials who appoint them. 
Good planning gives guidance and a sense of direction. After all, if we don't decide \vhere we want to go, then how will we· ever get there? 
MANAGEMENT: "Showing what programs do, as well as what they cost." 
Every year. making public budgets becomes mon! complicated. It is importnnt for tnxpaycrs to know what their tax dollars go for. but almost no one takPs thE! lime to investigate the endless columns of figures and translatE! th(!lll into clr~nr language. 
.'\ Commissioner must make known what r!ar:h budget is exper:tr!d to accomplish, not just the amount of money involved. The r.ounly budget, just like a family budgr~~. shows what the govemment considers to bE! important. The sooner the taxpayers know what is in the works. the better. 
------------~ ------------~­
Monday, November 4, 1974 the observer 

M:ryette against Voor 
ND grads compete for prosecutor's office 
by Pat Flynn be so bad if it was done in a Democrats could not find another effect the lives of many human Committee Sexual Offense Staff-candidate," Mayette charged. 
Wilfred Mayette, republican and disciplined way," Mayette said. beings." he continued. 1 \S.O.S. l," Mayette said. "The 
William Voor Jr. Democrat in­"Mr. Voor has no guidelines for his For this reason, Mayette Each of the cannidates pointed only reason that Voor agreed to office setting down what and how believes that he has a good chance out something which he had to
cumbent square off in the St. this engagement was that the 
offences are to be plea -bargiined." of winning this election despite the offer specifically to Notre Dame
Joseph County prosecutor's S.O.S. threatened to announce his 
"He prefers to leave this decision traditional Democratic strength in students.
election race. In the campaign, failure to appear at the event if he 
completely up to his deputy St. Joseph County; 65,000 Mayette claims that during his
Mayette, a former deputy_ did not show up." Mayette
prosecutors, "Mayette affirmed. registered Democrats vs. 25,000 as prosecutor
prosecutor for St. Joe County for term deputy he charged, however, that Voor 
Mayette believes that this policy registered Republicans. researched and found the legal arrived minutes late for
seven years, has charged Voor, 20 the 
does not allow for equal treatment Voor denies most of Mayette's grounds _needed to prosecute S.O.S. meeting and left -shortlyCounty Prosecutor for St. Joe 
under the law. "Under Voor, allegations, calling them "lies." robbers and muggers preying on
County since 1967, with excessive after arriving. Mayette also 
whether a case is plea-bargained "No one in the office of County Notre Dame and St. Mary's responded to claims made aboutplea-bargaining. 
or not depends on who the defen­prosecutor can avoid frequent students on the outskirts of cam­himself by Fr. Tallarida, Director
Plea bargaining occurrs when a dent is --especially concerning his plea-bargaining," Voor said. "Our pus. "After many long hours of of Student Affairs, repoi·tpd in theprosecutor agrees to press lesser financial state," Mayette charged. staff is simply too thin." work, I finally found these Oct. 11 issue of the Observer.charges in exchange for an Mayette maintained that when "We try to concentrate on the grounds in terms of rout and riot Tallarida reported that Mayetteassurance from the defendent that he worked under Voor as deputy major felonies; street crime, rape, charges," Mayette said. Mayette had informed him that his cam­he will plead guilty. prosecutor, he had attempted to aggravated assault, murder, etc.," claims that he handled most of the paign manager and client Ray
Both Mayette and Voor were one formulate a set of guidelines for Voor said. law suits based on these rout and Milliken intended to file suittime students at Notre Dame. plea-bargaining in the prosecutors Voor pointed out, that while riot charges himself. against six Notre Dame off­Mayette is a graduate from Notre office. Voor, however, would not working under him, Mayette Voor emphasized his close campus students. Milliken andDame Law School. Voor recieved accept them. himself had engaged in plea­relationship with University Mayette refused to work out anhis B.A. from Notre Dame. Both Mayette also claims that bargaining. "In the Ginny Sue Lin Counsel Philip Faccenda, and his agreement with the students men are Catholics. because of his excessive plea case, we picked up the defendent at work as County Prosecutor to treat outside of court. The students
Mayette charged that Voor has bargaining, Voor has little support Scottsdale Mall and charged her Notre Dame students were renting a house owned bybeen a "do nothing" County from his own party. "Joseph with first degree murder," Voor fairly. Milliken.Prosecutor, plea-bargaining on 80 Doran, St. Joseph County said. Mayette prosecuted the case In i!ddition to his other Mayette asserted that the onlypercent of the felony cases handled Democratic Chairman, waged a and bargained for a second degree charges, Mayette complains that reason he had raised the questionthrough his office. 'dump Voor campaign' prior to the murder charge. Voor has refused to participate for of a law suit was because he 
Mayette thinks Voor's bartering election primary," Mayette Instead of uniformity, Voor the most part in the County believed that Tallarida was trying
of cases are particularly out of line claimed. "A group of county stresses the need for compassion Prosecutors campaign. According to intimidate his client, Mulech,in the areas of drunken driving, judges disgusted with Voor's lack from the office of the county to Mayette, Voor has refused to with the University's name. fraudulent checks and the carrying of effectiveness in prosecuting prosecutor. "It is important that debate with him and refused all "Frequently, the university tries of concealed weapons. "In these major crimes initiated the move," the County prosecutor should be an mutual speaking engagements to intimidate the citizens of South areas, almost no cases are he continued. individual of compassion and with him except one. "The only Bend in this way and it is an abuse prosecuted," Mayette asserted. "Voor retained his slate on the mercy," Voor maintained. "Tiw time we appeared togerher at any of their legal resources and "The plea-bargaining would not party ticket only because the decisions of this office after all event was before the Women's position," Mayette maintained. 
Districts B&G 
St. Joe County Council affects students 
the river to Ironwood and south of year term in District "B" are feels that Notre Dame is n-early programs, increased flow of the Toll Road from Ironwood to the Walter Mucha <Dl and Frank self-sufficient and needs little that federal funds, and better com­by Hobert Jacques 
Clay Township line; west of the Mulligan !R). Mucha has served a the council can offer, the ex-munication with the people.
Staff Reporter 
Clay line; north of Edison ;md total of eleven years on the old pansion of Ironwood and the --Elimination of county-city In the for on Angela. Also the area bounded by board, of which two terms were rerouting of Juniper traffic to duplication of government rune­
races seats the 
newly established nine-person St. \starting from the east) the river, appointed to fill vacancies. Ironwood would not only improve tions: Mucha said "I don't know." Angela, Wilbert, U.S. 20, the South Mulligan has served in no previous campus security but also its ap-Mulligan called for the elimination 
.Joseph County Council, two con­
Bend city limits (Woodland), elected offices. pearance. of competition and distrust andtests directly affect Notre Dame Bergan, Hamilton, and Oakwood. The following are various topics --Priorities for county funds: expressed interest in a quarterlyand St. Mary's students. In district The polling place on campus is ·and questions and the reactions of Mucha cited the upgrading of county-city meeting to solve such"B." which encompasses the ND 
the Rathskellar in LaFrotuen the two candidates: criminal justice systems, record duplication.
and SMC campuses, Democrat 
Walter Mucha, current member of Student Union. ++Serving the needs of ND-keeping computerization, en---Centralized county purchasing, All persons living in the SMC students: Mucha said he was vironmental services, ad-budgeting, and hiring: Mucha
the council, is being challenged by 
following area will vote in District not familiar with student needs but ministrative planning, and human said, "It may be a good idea.. .I'd
Republican Frank Mulligan. Off­
"G": South of Angela and Edison added, "I will work for the welfzre resources. Mulligan stressed be willing to try it. It is possible it campus students living south of and south of Douglas from of Notre Dam~ students." elimination of duplication, more will work. Again, it will have to beNotre Dame are in District "G." 
Gumwood to Elm; west of Elm and Mulligan stated that, although he efficient management of welfare (continu<'d on page 9;
The two candidates are democrat Tom Catanzarite and Republican west of Elder from Day to U.S. 20; llllliUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIJIIIIII north of U.S. 20 from Elder to
Edwin Smith. Neither has served 
Greenlawn and north of Wayne and on the council in the past. 
I I
Monroe; east of Main from WayneAll persons living on campus at to Angela.
Notre Dame and St. Mary's will The polling places for District
vote in District "B." Also, anyone i The State Senate ! 
s = 
resideing in the following areas "G" can be obtained from the will vote in "B": East of the St. county courthouse in South Bend. 1::::11 = == Joe River; south of Cleveland from The two candidates for the four-= =

I ~;:,:~:: Wth I
NICKlE'S 
i experience. i 
= 5
i i

NDAY NIGHT 

:==-~-BOB ~o:'l J JI_Cft ~-:==
congressman erademas and Bob Kovach 1
discuss federal aid for northern Indiana. ~ 1y ~
FOOTBALL SPECIAL! 
I i

~ DEMOCRAT ~ 
3 F~ $1.00 FRQ\A THE OPENING KICKOFF TO THE FINAL GUN -STATE SENATOR ­
EVERY NONDAY Paid fer byBob Kovcch fa State Senatcr Chum., 
_

TELL NO< YOO SAW IT ....
I Torn OpfeL Trecsurer I

FIRST IN TI-E aJ.SER\IER 
ftJJIIIIIIIIWIBIIIIUIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIHIUUIIBIIIHIIIIIIUIIIIIIJIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHI--IIRIII"..DIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUII-M 




--------------------------------------------·------~----­
the observer Monday, November 4, 1974
8 
t
• 
~ 
•
t 
I•
• 
! • • ~ 
t 
~ 
~ 
~ 
• 
I 
~ 
• • ~ 
• 
~ 
t 
l 
•
•~ 
l 
•
t 
t ~ 
~ 
~ 
•~ •
•
•
•L 
~ ~ 
~ 
-
SENATOR BAYH THINKS YOUR VOTE IS IN THE BAG. DICK LUGAR· DOESN'T. 

THE RECORD 
Dick Lugar's first step in rebuilding Indianapolis was to go out and compete against other parts of the country for new business and inoustry. He talked about Indy's good location, growth potential, and especially its strong work force...and his message sold. Since 1968, 227 new firms have chosen Indianapolis over other states, bringing 50,000 new jobs and billions of dollars with them. An all-time record for new construction was set in 1969 ... broken in 1971 ... broken again in 1972. In all, one quarter of all property value in Marion County has come into existence since Lugar took office. 
In 1967, when ·Dick Lugar established his new administration for Indianapolis, whites were leaving the city amid rising crime rates, a deteriorating tax base and increasing unemployment. 
Now, after seven years of innovat1ve leadership, Indianapolis has turned around. The optimism and idealism of Dick Lugar permeates the city, bringing fresh energy to Indianapolis. 
What has happened to Indy during the Lugar administration? 
-unemployment has averaged about 4.2%, well below the national and state averages. 
-the civil tax rate has declined for seven consecutive years. 
water pollution has declined by 14% since 1968 and particulate matter in the air has been reduced by 34%. 
ECONOMY LEADS NATION 

On May 11, 1974, the U.S. Council on Municipal performance rated Indianapolis the city with the healthiest economy in the nation, with the most equal distribution of income in any city studied. 
Indianapolis is the most prosperous city in the nation, the safest city in the nation and is recognized around the world for its energetic and responsive government. 
DICK LUGAR FOR INDIANA. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS FOR DICK LUGAR 
Leo Buchingni, Chairman 






STUDENT VOTE 

DICK LUGAR A Senator For 
Indiana Students 
If Dick Lugar sounds like a college professor when he speaks it's because he insists that the solutions to the problems of today aren't simple. Lugar, a Rhodes Scholar, knows that students are looking for leaders who have a true understanding of economics and of inflation. Students demand intelligent and comprehensive answers -and that's why over 40% of Lugar's speaking engagements are in front of young people. Lugar gives complex answers to complex problems and students like what they hear. They know that what this country needs is some brilliant leadership. 

THE ISSUES 
ECONOMY: 
Dick Lugar has proposed the following inflation-fighter platform: 
1. 
the balancing of the federal budget, 

2. 
the stimulation of domestic productivity, 

3. 
the easing of high interest rates with policies consistent with moderation in the growth of the money supply, 

4. 
the embarking on foreign policy initiatives to promote international cooperation in the battle against inflation, and 

5. 
the elimination of governmental interference with the free workings of the market structure. 




ENERGY: 

Dick Lugar has proposed a seven point program to confront the energy crisis. He knows that simply "rolling back oil prices" as Senator Bayh suggests, is impossible since the price of oil is set by the 
O.P.E.C. and not the U.S. Lugar's plan might not sound as good as Birch Bayh's, but it will work: 

1. 
the utilization of a royalty system in leasing public lands and seabeds for oil drilling 


2. 
the prohibition of oil company ownership of pipelines 

3. 
the divestiture of oil companies of retail marketing operations 

4. 
institute a domestic exploration tax credit and repeal the oil depletion allowance 

5. 
repeal the tax credit on royalties paid to foreign governments 

6. 
deregulate national gas and build a trans-Canadian natural gas pipeline 

7. 
increase coal research and production 



ERA: 
Mayor Lugar feels that the United States Constitution at this time excludes women from the "due process clause" of the Fifth Amendment and the "equal protection clause" of the Fourteenth Amendment. His position: "The Equal Rights Amendment is a necessary addition to the Constitution in order that all persons will be assured full rights of citizenship." 
'-----------------------~---------------------------------------------------------J,, 

Monday, November 4, 1974 the observer 
9 

-



Larrison, Ellis seek Countyoffice 
which the Democratic candidate alternative means of urban ser­Juni.or Achievement, andby Jeanne Murphy cooperation to eliminate 
Copy Editor duplication of such services. would like to pursue is organizing vices in suburban areas, and if prestdent of the South Bend­Richard L. Larrison Sr., Larrison would cooperate with the law and statute books. necessary, seek state help. Ellis Mishawaka Area Chamber of the highway and engineering Larrison stated that he would like wishes to work towards Commerce. He is an executive for 
Democrat, and Jack Ellis, department to help employ better to accept the proposal made by establishing additional parks in the Indiana Bell and lives in GrangerRepublican are vying for County 
Notre Dame to organize the or­county. Indiana. ' Commissioner' in the first district qualified people and keep up dinances and laws by putting them His five top spending prioritiesemployee morale. For him the
in this year's election. Role of County Commissioner 
Larrison's platform consists of three priorities for spending by the in a numerical system. for county funds include: job modernization of government, county of federal revenue sharing Larrison is a former county opportunity program for youth and The duties of the County Com­
funds include bridges and over­councilman and president of the adults, airport development, road missioner include: make an an­cooperation with the highway and passes, airport expansion to coum;il. He is employed by Ries and highway improvement, jail nual report of the state of theengineering department, and 
improvement of management. minimize hazards and increase Furmture Company and resides in facilities, priority construction of county to the people; recommend .South Bend. programs to the Gounty Council for 
Ellis confronts such issues as safety, and complete com­bridges and overpasses. 
munication systems for county For Ellis, the three priorities for county improvement and welfare
government waste, bad roads, Politics versus leadership
highway equipment. spending by the county of federal of the residents; submit annualannexation, urban servil·es and "Jack Ellis is not a politician. revenue sharing funds are jail budget; supervise and maintain"flip-flops." 
He is a proven administrator. He facilities and crime prevention, county property; establishBoth candidates are calling for 
more efficient means of managing There are three areas which will run county government like a reduction in tax rates by the use of procedures for departments, of­and organizing the departments, Larrison plans to improve business, not like a political club," funds, and expanded programs for fices and agencies under their 
senior citizens. jurisdiction; and,administer all
revenues, and services responsible management as County Com he stated in a campaign brochure. 
laws.
under the office of County Com­missioner: finances , relations, As a businessman-leader the Ellis believes that annexation of and recreation. Republican candidate for County areas surrounding the city of South The three County Com­
missioner. 
Democratic candidate Richard First, to offset interest and bond Commissioner would review an­Bend is "another attempt to cover .missioners of St. Joseph County Larrison Sr. intends to "bring the debts, Larrison will invest more ticipated income (taxes) and up the existing city problems by will become the executive branch government to the people." He money in savings. expenses (programs and ser-taking on a whole new set of of the county government as of 
January 1, 1975. Today the role is 
believes, "if people are not in­His top five spending priorities vices.) problems in suburban areas. 
both legislative and ad­
volved in their government, they for county funds include: data He would eliminate waste and "County government flip-flops don't care, and eventually lose in processing and computer, juvenile fit expenses to income. He will on issue after issue--on air ministrative, but New Year's it rehabilitation, county roads, encourage local business growth pollution control, trash collection, becomes strictly administrative.
interest in government." 

To make the county government bridges both new and upkeep on by reducing or eliminating red landfill operation, where and when more serviceable to the citizens, old, rehabiliation centers to help tape imposed by the county and to build bridges," Ellis stated. If Larrison hopes to initiate evening curb crime. seek out new businesses to in-elected, he plans to change "hasty public hearings so the people may Second, he will develop better crease availability of jobs for all reactions" to problems and actively participate. working relations between the adults, young and old. develop a program of "careful 
Larrison is calling for moder­County Council and other elected Ellis intends to implement plans constructive management.'' nization of government, for officials. for county roads and highways to Ellis served as Northern In­example, the application and Third, he will "create a better establish safe roads using citizen diana's Chairman of the National extension of data processing and understanding in the community participation to establish priorities Alliance of Businessmen, chair­computer services in county on issues of parks and open land." and not special interest groups. man of the River Bend Plaza government, and county-city Another area of improvement He plans to investigate all Advisory Board, vice-president of 
County Council affects student life 
Icontinued frnlll f'ClgP 7) 

members to the board. Catan­cited the need tor more cooperation with the federal 
seen." Mulligan pointed to a newly zarite has held no previous elected cooperation between the police and government, "In the past Indiana enacted state law requiring the office. Smith has served for four sheriff and the prosecutor's office. has been in isolation from the federal government," Catanzarite
centralized functions. "Some are years on the city council. --Priorities for county funds: said. Smith said hed would likeapparently una ware of it being The following are various topics Catanzarite noted human more funds but didn't know wherelaw. There is no need for me to ans and questions and the reac­resources, bridge fund, roads, they could be obtained.
give an opinion since it is law and tions of the two candidates: parks and recreation, county --Expansion of Ironwoood andwill be soon facilitated," Mulligan --Serving the needs of the ND­airport. Smith stressed drainage, colsing of the ND stretch of
said. SMC students: Catanzarite said solid waste disposal, road im­Juniper: Catanzarite said heMulligan has called for an in­that he is of student age and, being provement, bridge maintenance wanted to see Juniper stay open ascreased use of federal funds and once a student himself, can easily and construction, airport. 
long as possiible. Smith expressed wiser use of those already ob­understand the students' situation. 

--Priorities for federal funds: no opinion on the issue.

tained. He cited the recent county Smith called for good, responsible Catanzarite listed county airport, Concerning the recently disputed rejection of a $172 million federal government. "Specifically, I can bridge fund, police. Smith noted HUD program <$174 million inprogram for low cost housing. He think of nothing I can do for them,'' maintenance of county equipemnt, · experimental low-cost housing toalso blamed the present county Smith said. 
completion of County-City Building the city and St. Joe County in thecouncil for the potential loss of --Outbreak of burglaries: and the jail, airport expansion with next ten years), Catanzarite said it $50,000 per month in welfare funds Catanzarite stated that the punish­other counties participating. 

has already been accepted by thebecause of its failure to register ment for those caught should be --Means of increasing federal city as of last September. Hewelfare recipients with the state. stricter. He also said that the funds: Catanzarite stressed the added that it may later spread tocouncil may be able to help the

District G 
The two candidates -running for the position of representative in District "G" are Tom Catanzarite 
(D) and Edwin Smith (R). The term is for two years this election, but will become a four year term in 1976 to stagger the elction of new 

* *
* * 
~ Nester P. l 
* *l

: Stachowicz 
* * 

l* for l* * *
* * 


: Sheriff : 
* *
* *
* *
* *
* * 
: Ad paid for : 
* *
* * 
:by Stachow icz.l l* Chairman l* l* Terri Lichkai *l 
** ** 
****************** 

FRAN SAYS LESSON IS: Rock 'N Roll 
AT NOTRE DAME LAFORTUNE BALLROOM ON, MON. EVE NOV. 4 i P.M. SHARP 
A LESSON EVERY MONDAY $2 EAC'll LESSON 
ALWAYS A BEGINNER LESSON 
OVER 100 NOW IN CLASS COME ALONE, GROUP, DATE 
WATCH FOR US SOON ON WNDU-TV STUDENT PARTICIPATION SHOW 


need for more state legislative the county. ~-----------1
Smith 
FBANK V. MJJIJGAN REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE FOR COUNCIL DISTRICT B SINCE BOTH CAMPUSES ARE IN DISTRICT B . THIS MAN WILL BE YOUR MOST DIRECT LOCAL GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE. ASK YOURSELF IF YOU'RE SATISFIED WITH YOUR PRESENT COUNCIL )~AN. 
FRANK MULLIGAN IS 43. A GRADUATE OF MT. ST. MARY'S COLLEGE (B.S.) AND HARTFORD U. (BSME). HE HAS TWO KIDS 
IN COLLEGE NOW WITH TWO TO GO. HE RUNS A SUCCESSFUL MANUFACTURING FIRM IN TOWN AND BECAME INTERESTED IN PUBLIC OFFICE WHILE LEADING ANTI-ANNEXATION BATTLES. 
HE BELIEVES STRONG MANAGEMENT INSTINCTS ARE NEEDED IN COUNTY GOVEHNMENT. 
WE THINK YOU SHOULD HAVE A VOICE IN LOCAL GOVERNMENT. ESPECIALLY AS IT AFFECTS CAMPUS LIFE. V01EFRANKMII.IGWJDWI6-B 


-




LUGAR 
lf\RAllQ\1 
A balanced federal budget is !.'ssential to combat inflation, and only a new Congress is going to ac­complish that reform. Wage and price .:ontrols are« proven disaster, and Dick Lugar opposes them. Controls and threat of controls ar­tificially suppress production of new supplies and create shortages, while failing to curtail inflation. 
Federal budget reform and a consistent economic policy will contribute to economic health and free market expansion. 
~IGNPO..ICY 
The success of U.S. diplomatic initiatives depends upon a strong military position. While recognizing that a balanced budget will require trimmingof defense spending, Dick Lugar warns against careless wholesale cuts. He recognizes that the current defense budget represents the smallest percentage of total spending since WWII, and that a rising portion goes to salaries in maintaining a volunteer army. Lugar supports initiatives abroad and increased foreign trade. 
LLGAA IN 
lt\OIANAPO..JS 
Indianapolis under a Lugar Ad­ministration: unemployment has averaged about 4.2 per cent, below national and state averages; the civil tax rate has declined for seven consecutive years; water pollution has declined by 14 per cent since 1968 and particularly matter in the air has 
been reduced by 34 per cent. 
On May 11, 1974, the U.S. Council 
on Municipal Performance rated 
Indianapolis the city with the 
healthiest economy in the nation, 
with the most equal distribution of 
income in any city studied. 
A Rhodes Scholar, former Navy officer. and Methodist lay minister, Dick Lugar is now 42 years old. He and his wife Char have 4 sons, Mark, Hobert, John, and David, who attend the Indianapolis Public Schools. 
ENERGY 
The energy crisis is real, and Dick Lugar has devised a comprehensive energy policy to deal with the problem. 
Lugar's specific proposals and comments included: 
• SWITCH TO A ROYALTY 
1
!SYSTEM IN LEASING PUBLIC LANDS AND SEABEDS FOR OIL DRILLING. 
"The present auction bidding system requires the winning bidder to pay mil­lions of dollars in cash before com­mencing operations, and this puts most auctions beyond the reach of small oil firms. If the bidding were based on a percentage of the value of the oil pro­duced, competition for drilling rights would be increased and the revenues to the national treasury would be greater.". 
• INCREASE COAL RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION 
"The greatest energy opportunity for the nation and for Indiana lies in ex­panded use of coal. Here, more than any other single aspect, and if need be at the expense of other aspects, is where government research dollars should be applied." 
"The U.S. contains 48% of the world's known coal deposits, and In­diana contains a substantial portion of that. Aggressive development of coal as tbe nation's primary energy source would simultaneously provide a tre­mendous stride toward optimal energy independence, and serve as an eco­nomic rebirth for much of Southern Indiana. It deserves #1 priority atten­tion." 
Lugar concluded, "We need innova­tions and we need breakthroughs in do­mestic energy production. We need competition among the alternative fuel sources, and this means preventing oil, gas and coal production froin being concentrated in the same hands. The strength of our dollar, our industrial economy, and our entire strategic posi­tion in the world depend on our suc­cess in accomplishing these goals." 
• DEREGULATE NATURAL GAS 
"National policy has badly misman­aged our energy-situation in terms of oil, but equally serious errors have oc­curred in utilizing our natural gas po­tential. First of all, by the government's tinkering around controlling the well­head price, it made domestic produc­tion of natural gas such a bad bet that domestic development came to a rela­tive standstill. Great potential reserves of this clean, necessary fuel exist in the U.S., and a deregulation of the well­head price, graduated over a number of years to protect the consumers and de­pendent industries, would spur pro­duction." 
SPOf\JSORID BY 
1\DTRE ON/f. ST. N-.AR.YS Yam-t FOR LUGAR 

LEO BLO-IGf\JAN 


Monday, November 4, 1974 
the observer 1 1 

Voters to decide on amendments 

proposed amendments to the In­present state laws; 2) election of three proposals have been in­Lieutenant Governor. by Matt Yokom diana State Constitution on the Governor and Lieutenant troduced and passed by both the The second Consitiutional Staff Reporter November 5th ballot. The sub­Governor; and 3) modernizing House and Senate at two different question of the November ballot 
jectsof the proposed amendments Article 12 of the constitution sessions of the Indiana General will read: "Shall the Consitiution Indiana voter s will decide to concern: 1) the legislative re­concerning the state militia. Assembly. The final test con­of the State of Indiana be amended either reject or accept three codification and organization of As required by law each of the fronting the proposals is approval to provide that candidates for by a majority of Indiana voters. Governor and Lieutenant Governor run for election jointly so Legislative Proposal that a vote cast for one is a vote cast for the other; and to provide for the selection of a Governor and 
Question one on the ballot reads, Lieutenant Governor in the event"Shall Section 19 of Article 4 of the of a tie vote in a general election?'' 

Consititution of the State of In­If approved ,candidates for the twodiana be amended to read as offices would run as a team as thefollows: 'An act, except an act for United States President and Vicethe codification, revision, or President do.
reaarrangement of laws, shall be 
confined to one subject and mat­The Legislative Council 
ters properly connected Research Division sees two ad­
therewith?' " vantages to this proposal: 1) "as 
This is basically a housekeeping members of the same politicalamendment which, according to party, the Governor and the Indiana Legislative Council Lieutenant Governor would be Research Division, will allow the more apt to operate in harmony in General Assembly "to consolidate discharging their duties as state and make comprehensible the laws officers than they would be if they of Indiana which are now scattered were leaders of opposing political throughout books published every parties," and 2) "In the event the year or two as the state statues Governor dies or leaves office, he were enacted from 1852 to the would be succeeded as Governor present date." by a person of the same political
The present provision, adopted party as was the person elected in 1960, was to allow for revision Governor by the people."and codification of laws as a unit, concerning only one subject. The 
MilitiaIndiana code of 1971 was passed unanimously for this purpose, but The final Consitiutional question was invalidated by the Indiana is "Shall the constitution of theSupreme Court later in that year. 

State of Indiana be amended toThe Court held the 1971 code was provide that the militia consist of not within the meaning of a all persons over the age ofsentence of the 1960 provision seventeen (except those personswhich said, "the requirement of exempted by law), that the militia this paragraph shall not apply to be divided into active and inactive original enactments of codification clauses, and that certain otherof laws" becasue the code is not specified changes be made con­confined to a single subject which cerning the militia?"

the provision required. The proposed amendment, The most striking change this 
requires an act to be confined to proposal would create is that the one subject "except an act for the militia would not only consist of codification, revision,, or all "able-bodied male persons rearrangement of laws." This between the ages of 18 and 45 
would allow a code similar to that years," as the constitution now of 1971. reads, but rather "all persons," (i.e., females and males). Ac­Election of Governor and cording to the legislative council "the primary purpose of the
Lieutenant Governor proposed amendment is to remove nineteenth century provisions and 
In 1960 Democrat Matthew E. 
language" and replace them with Welsh was elected Governor and more modern provisions and Republican Richard 0. Ristine was language. For example, according elected Lieutenant Governor. This to the council, "a person con­peculiar arrangement was scientiously opposed to bearingbecause the Indiana Constitution, arms would no longer have to buy enacted in 1851, requires separate an examption to avoid serving in election of Governor and the militia." 

****************************************************** 
* *
i RE-ELEa SHERIFF RE-B.ECf i 
* * 
a DEAN BQT.f:RJACK i 
* *
* * 
a NOTRE DAME B.A, CLASSOF'36 i 
* ~
t caNTY OlY STAlE FE!l:RAL t 
! lNI ~CEVB\IT EXPERIENCE : l* POLICE CHIEF-LEGISLATOR * ~ * TEACHER-SHERIFF * 
* *
****************************************************** 

VIRGINIA BLACK 
for CONGRESS, INDIANA'S 3RD DIS'fHICT 
NOTHING WIU. CllANGE UNI1L WE Clf.ANGE THE 

MAKE-UP OF <DNGBFSS 
------------------~----­

Monday, November 4, 1974
12 the observer 


ND voting to be held in LaFortune 
by Bob Quakenbush 

Precinct 1A. The same voting 9734 or 284-9735. Street, St. Joseph's High School Precinct 16: 915 N. Ironwood, St.Starr Reporter hours will be in effect. The County Clerk's Office has Precinct 7: 216 North Hill, St. Peter's United Church of Christ Students should note that only issued a reminder that Joseph's School Precinct 17: 2405 E. Edison Rd.,
The LaFortune Rathskellar and those students who actually reside misrepresentation at the polls (for Precinct 8: 719 North Notre Teamsters Union Local 364 the west entrance of Augusta Hall on campus are eligible to vote at example, attempting to vote twice) Dame Avennue, Olivet A.M.E. tomorrow will be the polling places the above locations. is a felony. Church Precinct 18: 3425 E. Sorin Street, for those University of Notre Dame For students who live off­The area due south of campus Precinct 9: 803 North Notre Canfield residence 
Manchester

and St. Mary's College students campus and are registered voters, wherein resides a heavy con­Dame, Northeast Neighborhood Precinct 19: 1021 who are registered voters in the both the County Election Board centration of Notre Dame students Service Center Drive, Good Shepherd Lutheran 
Church

state of Indiana. and the South Bend Tribune are is designated South Bend's District Precinct 10: 523 West North Balloting for Portage Township sponsoring telephone answering 4. The district's 21 precincts are Shore, Eugene R. Sriver residence 
Precinct 1 will take place between Precinct 20: 2701 Eisenhower
services to furnish information on listed below: Precinct 3: 1234 N. Precinct 11: 1234 North Notre 
the hours of 6a.m. and 6p.m. in the the precinct for Notre Dame Ave., Notrthern In­Dame Avenue, Northern Indiana Drive, Thomas Edison School
proper location
basement of the LaFortune voters residing within St. Joseph diana State Hospital and Children's Hospital (south side of Precinct 21: 915 N. Ironwood 
Student Center. This is a change County. Developemntal Disabilities Center front lobby) Drive, St. Peter's United Church of from the previously announced Precinct 12: 740 North Eddy Christ
Callers may contact the Tribune <North Side of Front Lobby) voting site, Stepan Center, made in telephone operators by dialing 233-Precinct 4: 115 South Francis, Street, Perley School Precinct 22: 1710, Turtle Creekorder to provide a more convenient ,6161 on Monday between 8a.m. and Educational Building, Sunnyside Precinct 13: 1430 E. Sorin Street, Drive, Community Room, Turtle
and centrally located voting 10 p.m. or on Tuesday between 5:30 Presbyterian Church J. L. White residence Creek Apartmentsfacility. a.m. and 6p.m. Precinct 5: 540 South Carroll, Precinct 14: 1101 E. Jefferson 
On the St. Mary's campus, The County Election Board will Salvation Army County Coor­Blvd., First Christian Church Precinct 23: 1600 Wildflower 
Augusta Hall's west entrance will provide information during dinator Office Precinct 15: 1805 McKinley Way, North Shore Woods Club be designated Portage Township election hours Tuesday. Call 284-Precinct 6: 1441 North Michigan Avenue, No. 3 Fire Station House 
Hard-Jought campaign 

Lugar,Bayh pitted in senatorial race 
(continuC'd from pGgP 1) trlbutions as of October 14. percent of the vote total with over In addition to the two major House of Representatives, four as outlaw cross district bussing The combined spending of the 20 percent undecided. They feel candidates, there is another Democratic leader, and two as "except in cases of:iejureor proven two major candidates in the new Lugar can come out the winner in a challenger. Con Lee, candidate of Speaker. He was first elected to de facto segragation in school report totaled more than $1.65 close race. the American Party, has ad­the U.S. Senate in 1962. In 1972, systems." million. Lugar said that he and vocated returning property rights Bayh became the first Indiana Bayh and Lugar have both been Bayh willprobablybothspend about and government control to the member of the powerful Senate
Democratic forces, meanwhile,
vocal advocates of the ERA.As for $1 million, while Bayh has said he state and away from the Federal Appropriations Committee in over
have announced that i.heir poll
this year's campaign ex-will spend approximately $800,000 government. Less is expected to 100 years.
shows Bayh ahead by 6 percnet .
penditures, both candidates have to Lugar's 2 million. gain less than 1percent of the total Lugar is a graduate of Denison
They are mainly concerned with
charged the other with No matter what the final totals vote. University where he was
voter apathy, fearing a low turnout
discrepancies and secrecy· are, it is already evident that this Concerning education and ex­valedictorian and a Rhodes
will hurt their candidate.
According to Common ' Cause, Indiana race has attracted a great perience, both Lugar and Bayh are Scholar. He is a former Navythe Indiana Senate race is one of amount of national interest and college graduates and have ex­officer and a Methodist lay"labor vs. business," with Lugar concern. It was the focus of Both sides have conceded that tensive government service minister. In the Navy, Lugar was being the largest recipient of several national magazine articles the crucial area is northwest In­records. an Intelligence Briefer and U.S. business and professiongal and ismentionedby both parties as diana, where Bayh must win by Bayh is a native of Terre Haute, Chief of Naval Operations. He has donations in the nation, totalling crucial to their overall success. more than 25,000 labor votes 
received a B.S. in agriculture from been President of the National

$110,000. Bayh has received to counter a strong Lugar Purdue University and a law league of cities and Vice Chairman$141,200 in labor donations, second The Republicans have used a vote in the south. Marion county, :iegree from the Indiana of the I.S. Advisory Committee onhighest total in the country. These recent Lugar poll to claim that the which contains Lugar's In­University Law School. At the age Intergovernmental Relations.
figures were based on con-candidates each have aoout 39 dianapolis home, is expected to of 25 he was elected to the Indiana Lugar has served as the mayor of
1••••••••••••••...•••••••-...••••••••-•••••• support the Republican mayor. General Assembly, where he Indianapolis for the past seven served eight years in the State years.
: :MICHIGAN STREET i --------­

i ADULT THEATRES i ,_£~e~!r_St~~­
•.• X 2 f1Lltt) 5 Niaht Editor: Rutherford
AI • • Asst. Night Editor: Ginny Faust 
• ~ • Layout: Tom O'Neil, Bill Brink: X BC)~~~ : Night Controller: Bill Brink • • Typists: Robert Baker, Dennis 
:. X LIVE fl.CXJl SHQW :. 
McNellis, Jim Landis, Rick Huber Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz, 
AI Razzano 

• : Bob Tracey 
Agent

: 1316 SQJTH MICHIGAN STREET • Ad Layout: Bob Tracey, Bob 
• • McManus 
: CALL 282·1201.. fnR INfnDAA.4 Tlntu: Copy Readers; Jeanne Murphy, 
''e~ralter year~ semester

••-•••••••••••••••~"• :'Ce••••••:f.J,¥,1J:{llJ:fiN Terry Kenney 
I after semester~ t~:.: CollegeMaster from Fidelitv Union Life has

i• • UNCLE WILLIE'S i• • 
IK-cn tile most acccptt~ most popular plan on campuses all overAmenca. 

. •••• FATAL GLASS OF BEER : : • 
Find out why.

• Call the Fidelity Union
• 
Collegel\'1aster· Field Associate 

• •• MONDAY NIGHT 
• •• •
• 
in ~·our area: 
l 005 E. LaSalle

• FOOTBALL SPECIAL • • 
South Bend, Ind.

I • •• 
Phone 287-2327 
•

• c • • • 3 FOR $1.00 • • •
•
• 

• • EVERY MONDAY • 
Phil Teah 
.&,g~:nt 

.• ,, .• 
•• ...........................................-............-: • 
• .............• 






