On. The Inside 
Glasser lecture tonight •.•page 3 
Astronauts move ... page 6 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 113 Wednesday, April 24, 1974 
St. Mary's assembly votes to change sign-out procedures 
by same said parents."
by Mary Janca Many freshmen are mature enough to handleStaff Reporter 

self-responsible hours and consequently become frustrated and rebellious. This often leads toSt. Mary's Student Assembly last night bolting and late minutes, since the freshmenunanimously passed a proposal to change the direct their hostility toward the school, Albostasign-out procedures while defeating another contends.
proposal which would allow first semester fresh­The ruling as it now stands is discriminatory, men to have self-responsible hours with parents' she continued, since all students, except firstapproval. 
semester freshmen, have no curfew, following"Any resident with self-responsible hours wiii parental approval. 
not be required to keep a sign-out card. Any If it were changed, girls could decide with their resident with hours must keep the sign-out parents whether they will be mature enough toprocedures," proposed Hall Life Commissioner handle "no-hours." This would strictly be aAnn Smith. 
family decision, since there be no peer"All residents will be required to keep a file in pressure," she argued.
her hall office with the names of people who "Parents are closest to their daughters andwould ordinarily know where she is, and the are best able to judge whether they are mature names of places she may frequent. ..Each enough to handle self-responsible hours," sheresident is responsible for keeping this file up to stated.
date," she continued. 

However, the Assembly was divided on theThe current sign-out system is ineffective results. Members pointed out that the curfew isbetween the hours of 6:00a.m. and 6:00p.m., and a necessary aid in adjusting to college life.
is not always accurate since students often do "Sometimes it's good for students to havenot know where they are going and don't always guidelines at first/' commented one member.
stay in the place indicated on their sign-out card, Others argued that freshman year, for mostSmith explained. 
students, involves a new life style, with moreA third reason for revision is that the present homework and a different type of social life than system is creating an inappropriate amount of that of high school, and a curfew helped them towork for the hall staffs, she noted. 
adjust to it and prevented them from exceedingSmith contends that this proposed change "is their limitations.
in no way connected with the theft of the sign-out Also, some said that a curfew helped to unitebooks," which occured earlier this month. 
freshmen and create friendships, because mostIn order for the new system to go into effect, it freshmen get together at 2:00a.m. on weekendsmust be approved by the Student Affairs Com­and talk.
mission, composed of administration, faculty Because of the negative response, Albostaand stu.dent representatives, the Student Affairs amended the proposal to read that incomingCouncil. 
freshmen be granted self-responsible hoursHowever, the Hall Life Commissioner is op­Friday and Saturday nights only with parentaltimistic about its passage. "It has a lot of sup­approval.
port and is a very logical proposal," she stated. 
This move was defeated by a vote of 6-5 withStudent Affairs Commissioner Chris Albosta one abstention; as it was not a majority which is proposed that "all incoming freshmen be necessary for the proposal's passage, two moregranted self-responsible hours contingent upon attempts at its passage were also defeated.
oarental approval before registering in the hall 
(continued on page 2)

~r anytime thereafter and revokable at anytime 

HPC chairman Bob Howl {left} and SBVP Frank Flanagan (right). 
Rule revisions stressed by HPC 
by Susan Divita Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents Council stressed several rule revisions that must be brought to the attention of the administration and the studentsbeforethis school year is out so that action can be taken on the proposed changes immediately. The HPC states its views in a letter to the editor in this issue of The Observer. 
Feedback was received from several halls about the parietals issue and party house proposal. Laur.a Dodge, president of Badin Hall, stated the feedback she got felt ideally that parietals be thrown out, but thought a more realistic plan would be abolishing parietals on weekends and having some hours such as 9-12 a.m. during the week. Discussion concerning the halls sponsoring a party house in Michigan ended on the pointthat the entire plan had to be thought out completely before presentation to the SLC, for the house would involve a lot of money for taxation, etc., and the issue was more complex than it seemed at first glance. 
A guest speaker, Ben Johnson from Positive Action and Development Committee, spoke on the African Appeal Fund which will go into effect immediately and end on May 7. Each night at food service there will be a box for cash contributions which the hall president or community service director in each hall will be in charge of. The project will raise money for drought striken countries in South Africa to provide them with medication and other necessities. The Positive Action Com­mittee will also taken their cause to South Bend. 
Afew last comments were made concerning summer storage. The official word is that there will be no storage in halls this year and though another place is being looked into, possibly in town, though that proposition looks doubtful. 
COUP report addition adopted 
by Fred Graver Contributing Editor 
The Faculty Senate last night voted to adopt an addition to the Committee on University Priorities report dealing with the Catholic character of the University. In another motion, they voted to endorse the establishment of a Budget Review Committee as recommended in the COUP report. 
The proposed addition to the COUP report was done at the request of Father Hesburgh. On the front page of that report he asked for comment from members and organizations of the Univer­sity, which he said would be for­warded to the Board of Trustees and the Academic Council. The addition proposed by the Faculty Senate Committee on Ad­ministration dealt mainly with alternative language and additions to the italicized portion of page 13 of the COUP report as it was published last semester in Notre Dame Magazine. 
The purposes, as stated iD: the 
amendment, dealt mainly with the 
intellectual commitment and 
responsibility of a Catholic 
University, specific reassurance to 
non-Catholics concerning tenure 
and promotion, and the problems 
of student discipline as it affects 
student life here. 
The discussion last night dealt 
completely with a motion to adopt 
the addition, with two amendments 
concerning the predominance of 
Catholics on the faculty. There was no discussion on student discipline. 
The paragraph of the addition in controversy stated, before amendments: "That the University have a faculty and student affairs staff among whom committed Catholics predominate. If the University is to have a Catholic character, it is obvious that all who play a role in recruitment should exercise care to attract and appoint from among the most competent teachers, scholars and scientists available those who are articulate believers; brilliant scholar-teachers who respect Christ in man and who are committed as He wal;> to service and sacrifice. Also, they should be aware of numerous scholrs who, while not sharing either the Catholic tradition or the Christian faith, abide here because they lead lives which include a sensitivity to and respect for the commitment to investigate the moral realm. Of such intellectual comrades who live in and by the spirit of Notre Dame and respect her heritage and tradition, we have much need. They add essential meaning to our striving to be Catholic. The University's invitation to a non­Catholic to join the faculty or staff is recognition that his professional concerns are compatible with those of the University, and an understanding that his religious committments or lack of them will not interfere with his acceptance, 
retention or advancement at Notre Dame." Dr. Julian Pleasants, Professor of Microbiology, told the Senate of 
a  letter  he  had  written  to  Fr.  
Burtchaell,  Provost  of  the  
University,  concerning  the  in­ 

terpretation that had been reached by the College of Science Council. They felt that the COUP report meant that, "all things being equal, they would appoint a Catholic over a non-Catholic, although the situation rarely came to that," Fr. Burtchaell answered this by saying that, as Dr. Pleasants interpreted it as the meeting last night. This was not the case, but that a concerted effort was going to be made towards gaining a predominance of Catholic faculty members: 
Mrs. Maureen Gleason, Memorial Library representative, raised the point that without proper definition, the classification of Catholic meant little. 
Professor Danehy, of the Chemistry Department, com­mented on this by saying that he felt the University should concern itself more with an ideal that has been developed over its long history of tradition, rather than with strict religious backgrounds. 
Mrs. Gleason proposed two amendments to the above paragraph. The first proposed the deletion of the first sentence. The second proposed omitting the words "and appoint" from the second sentence. The Senate voted against the first amendment, and for the second. The addition will be sent in the amended form to 

1 
Father Hesburgh 
In further di1 1ssion of the 
COUP report, th« ;enate voted to 
endorse a Budge Review Com­
mittee, as propos J on page 17 of 
the printed repo The Senate 
action will be p formed in two 
stages. In th first, an en­
dorsement will be .orwarded to the 
Academic Council and to Fr. 
Hesburgh, so that he can include it 
in his report to the Trustees of the 
University. The second stage will 
have to do with a Committee in­
vestigation into specific policies of 
representation from various 
organizations at the University. 
The nominees of the Faculty 
Senate Nomination Committee 
were announced at the meeting. 
Nominated to the Student Life 
Council are: 'David L. Appel, 
Marketing Department, William 
Sexton, Dept. of Business 
Organization and Management, 
Michael Francis, Government and 
International Studies, Walter 
jNicgorski, General Program, 
Jeffrey Leake, Electrical 
Engineering Department, and 
William Egan, Management 
Department. 
Three positions in the Student 
Life Council must be filled by 
members of the Faculty for next 
year. 
Nominated to the Faculty 
Affairs Committee of the Board of 
Trustees are: Albin Szewczyk, Aeronautical and Mechanical Engineering, Joseph Scott, Sociology Department and Director of Black Studies, Charles 'Bud" Murdock, Law School; Edward Trubac, Department of Finance and Business Economics, John J. Lyon, General Program, Jerome Novotny, Aeronautical and Mechanical Engineering and William McGlinn, Physics Department. 
Two positions on the Faculty Affairs Committee must be filled for next year. 
The balloting will take· place during next week for both of these elections. Last year's procedure will be followed for the election. 
A comment was made to the Senate early in the meeting by Professor Winicur of the Chemistry Department on stud~t absenteeism surrounding vac<¢on breaks. He made an indegenden survey of a Freshman c.la'ss this semester, before and after both the long semester break and the shorter Easter brea1c. He found no real difference between the two in regards to absenteeism. "If the· students want to lengthen the vacation, they generally will go ahead, no matter how we plan against it." A number of com­ments were made as to how this reflects on Father Burtchaell's argument, during the planning of next year's caldendar, that full week vacations are necessary if student absenteeism is to be avoided. 


warld 

briefs 

NEW YORK (UPI)-A gas leak caused the explosion that ripped through a 25-story office building in mid-Manhattan near the United Nations Monday and injured 93 persons, city fire com­missioner John O'Hagan said Tuesday. 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI)-Patricia Hearst's family Tuesday released a letter from a New York City man described as a photo expert who said pictures of Miss Hearst taking part in a bank robbery showed that she was an unwilling participant. 
JERUSALEM (UPI)-A wail of air raid sirens Tuesday signaled the beginning of a day of mourning in Israel for the mo~e than.8,300 soldiers who died in four Middle East wars and mtermittent fighting with the Arabs. 
an campus taday 
11:15 a.m.--luncheon, margaret chase smith, bulla shed 
12.9 p.m.--art show, "student-faculty show--all media" till april 30, moreau galleries, free 
1 -4 p.m.--art show, e. slenker--paintings till april 26, isis gallery, . free 
2 p.m.--art show, "clowns on fire" all mediums till may 19, o'shag gallery , free 
2:45 p.m.--seminar, "anharmoniclty of vibes In crystals at high temp. related to emissivity and reflectivity of some oxides" by dr. cabannes, u. of orlean, sponsored by dept. of mat. sci., 5 eng. building 
6:30p.m.--meeting, nd sailing club, rm. 264 eng. bldg. 
6:30, 9, 11:30 p.m.--film, "a clockwork orange" spon. by nd glee club, wash. hall, $1.00 
7 p.m.--lecture, discipline internalized: the impossible dream" by dr. glaser, founder of instit. of reality therapy, Ia, o'laughlin aud., $2.00 
7 p.m.--meeting, inplrg, 1-c Iafortune 


WSND to be 
piped into dining halls 
by Mike Donovan Staff Reporter 
WSND, Notre Dame's student­run radio station, announced yesterday in an Observer in­terview, that startingWednesday their music will be piped into the North Dining Hall. Slight problems with their broadcast lines will delay their entrance into the South Dining Hall until sometime next week. The possibility of being heard in St. 
Mary's Dining Hall is also being looked into. 
Paul Bollwerk, WSND station manager, said that the station has lost some of the campus audience, and that this is just one attempt to bring WSND back to the students. Bollwerk stated that they can't compete with the big commercial stations, but they do offer the campus good music, campus an­nouncements, news and sports. There has been some trouble with audio quality in the past, Bollwerk said, "but we are looking into this so the work can be done to correct the difficulties." 
Citing the fact that that station has lost touch musically with the campus, AM Program Director C. Weber announced a new format that will allow WSND to compete against area stations for the campus listeners. Weber stated that they are going to play the music the campus wants to hear, and will play a combination of Top 40, Solid gold, and progressive music. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

JirttfOIIt 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price.' Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­
tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
A MOTHER'S DAY SPECIAL WITH 




FRANK ZAPPA 
AND THE 

MOTHERS OF INVENTION 
and special guest soon to be announced 
Sunday, May 12 
7:30pm 

at the Notre Dame A. C. C. 
Tickets are $5.50, $4.50, and $3.50 and are availbable at the ACC Box Office, Boogie Records and the other usual ticket outlets in the 
area. 
PRODUCED BY BOOGIE RECORDS & KARMA-SHOWCASE PRODUCTIONS 
SMC assembly allocates money for many events 
(continued from page 1) Interested students can contact 
The junfor class sponsoring a brunch for the senior class was 
granted $500 to serve the faculty and administration and for flowers and decoration~ for the two 
classes served will come from SAGA. All unused funds are to be returned 
The ·freshmen orientation committee, operating on a budget of $500 requested and received from the assembly and an ad­ditional $200 to cover the costs of Madonna night decorations, candles, flowers, postage for in­formation mailed to freshmen by sisters and duplicating. Ap­proximately 450-500 freshmen are 
expected, which  has  caused  the  
additional expense.  
Volunteers  are  needed  for  

Campus Open House, scheduled for Sunday May 5, between 2-5 p.m. 
1­




w ND 
SMC 

THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 

Jo_an_ne Garret, Leg. Com­missioner· . 
S~udent . government . IS sp?n­sormg an Ice cream social, which is to be its contribution to. t~e 
event. Albosta, the soc tal s coordinator, requested $9 to co~er the cost of 1000 cones and tee cream. Working with the theme, "Prices of the Good Old Days," she plans to charge a token 5 cents per cone, thu~ mak_ing. student government s contnbubon to the event $41. 
The Cincinatti Ballet and a mime troupe, which is scheduled to perform on campus for 3-4 days next year, asked that the Assembly sign a letter of intent to give them $1 per student of $1500, announced Legislative Commissioner Joanne Garrett. 
RESERVATIONS 
284-4176 
Student • Faculty ND·SMC Staff 


John Gay's ribald musical romp Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. . 0' augf11Jn.AY.9.ltorium (~t. Marv's) 
• ~.........,~.....:.•_. ~. b ••• ,-\r '.•.··· ~.~.· •• '· -.. 
ATTENTION ARTS AND LETTERS 
Present Freshman, Sophomores, and Juniors. Applications for the '74-75 
A&L STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL 
are now being accepted. Each applicant must write a brief statement-­one typewritten page or less--on why the person would be interested and qualified. Please include present class year, address, and phone number, and submit it to the 
DEAN'S OFFICE, ROOM 137 O'SHAUGHNESSEY, NO LATER THAN THURSDAY, APRIL 25 AT 4:PM 
(interviews wiII then be arranged) 


Thursday, May 2 at 8:00 
Tickets are $6.00 and $4.00 NOW ON SALE at the ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office. 
WITH THE GAP BAND 
~ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------­

the observ 
3 

Founder or-reality therapy 

Life or Death? 
to lecture at SMC tonight 
William Glasser, M.D., founder education. He heads an opportunity for persons in the of reality therapy will present a organization, The Educator Michiana area to participate in lecture, "Discipline Internalized: Training Center, which has instructional programs involving The Impossible Dream," at Saint teachers throughout the country Glasserian techniques. Mary's College Wednesday, April actively involved in studying and Three Glasser institutes in 24, 1974, at 7:00p.m. in O'Laughlin working to make their school a reality therapy will be held at Auditorium. school without failure. Many more Saint Mary's College this 
A native of Cleveland, Ohio, Dr. teachers are involved in his course summer: Schools Without Failure, Glasser attended Case Institute of on educational television. June 10-14; Discipline in the Technology and Western Reserve Psychiatric clinics, mental Classroom, June 24-28; and University School of Medicine. A hospitals, halfway houses and Religious Education, June 24-28. chemical engineer at 19, he correctional institutions are now Tickets for Dr. Glasser's April 24 became a clinical psychologist at using the ideas of reality therapy, appearance at Saint Mary's 23 and a physician at 28. After a form of treatment which stresses College are $2.00 and may be medical school he received his the importance of the individual purchased at the downtown office psychiatric training at the rather t than the group. At the of the St. Joseph Bank and Trust Veterans Administration Center in institute of Reality Therapy in Company, or through the Office of Los Angeles and the University of West Los Angeles, Dr. Glasser Programing at the College. California at Los Anglees. teaches and consults with those For additional information, 
Dr. Glasser has been a interested in learning to use reality please contact Sister Maria psychiatrist in private practice in therapy in their work and in their Concepta McDermott, CSC, Los Angeles since 1957 and has lives. professor of education at Saint consulted widely in the correc­Dr. Glasser has authored three Mary's College, 284-5461. 

tional field. His method of treating books: Reality Therapy: A New juvenile delinquents has gained Approach to Psychiatry, Schools wide recognition. He was for some Without Failure, and The Identity years the regular consultant at the Society. Ventura School for Girls of the Recently the Board of Regents California Youth Authority_ and of Saint Mary's College endorsed the Los Angeles Orthopedic the establishment within the Hospital. department of education of 
Recently he has devoted himself 'schools without failure' courses more and more to education at and reality therapy workshops in various levels. He has taught a conjunction with the Educator large group of city and county Training center both as enrich­school administrators, counselors, ment for tne 'students in the and teachers. He has worked teacher preparation program at directly with children in the Los Saint Mary's College and also as an Angeles city schools--Watts and other areas--and the Polo Alto schools. He has lectured widely in 
DRIVEAWAYS 
this country and Canada about the 
problems education.  of  contemporary  FOR  
At present Dr. Glasser works extensively in both psychiatry and  SUMMER  
Forum  VACATION  
Tonight  CALL  
Area  candidates  for  State  
Represenative will meet in forum tonite at Sp.m. in the Fiesta  NOW  
Lounge of Lafortune.  Faculty and  
students are invited. 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111110111111111111111  Minimum  
Erratum  Age  
The astronaut symposium will be open to everyone. However, there will be a reserved section for  18 Call  
engineering students. It was incorrectly stated in Tuesday's article that engineering  Larry Casey  
students will preference.  be  given  a  ticket  232-9034  
11nnmnlllnnmmmnnnmnmuumnm111111111  

SMC Religious Studies Courses for fall, 1974 
101 Biblical Theology 9TT11 Werner 111 The Religious Attitude 9 & 10 MWF Maltis 151 The Catholic Experience 1 & 12 MWF 211 Images of Jesus 11 & 12 MWF Weiss 311 Story & Theology 1TT3 Malits, Burrell, Hauerwas (same 
as Theo 311 Auto & Rev) 316 Early Xian Archeology 9 MWF Weiss 331 Contemporary Moral Issues 10TT12, 1TT3 356 World Justice & Church 1TT3 Werner 411 Thomas Merton 9TT11 Mallts 
For SMC students, 100-200 level courses fulfill core 
requirement; 300-400 are electives. For ND students, 100-200 RLST courses count toward Theo requirement as first courses; 300-400 qualify as Theo second courses. 
Registration Thurs-Tues, 8:30-3:00 in RLST alcove, ground floor, North Wing, Madeleva. For convenience of ND students, someone from RLST will be at ND Theo desk Frl, 8:30-12 and Mon, 10:30-3; all other times ND students must register in Madeleva. 
.. 


Simple or Complex Calculations In The Palm Of Your Hand 
Texas Instruments SR-11 
• 
Special key functions: Pi, scientific notation, square roots, squares, reciprocals, change siQn as well as addition, sub­traction, multiplication and divis1on 

• 
Constant, chain and mixed calculations 

• 
Range of nearly 200 decades, 8 digit mantissa and 2 digit exponent 

• 
Full floating decimal 

• 
Pocket portability with rechargeable batteries or AC opera­tion, with carrying case, 109.95 


Not Shown: Texas Instruments SR-10 
• 
Square roots, squares, reciprocals, change sign, scientific notation, also adds, subtracts, multiplies and divides 

• 
Full floating decimal 

• 
Fast recharge batteries with AC adapter/charger and carrying case, 89.95 


Bowmar MX100 Scientific Brain 
• 
With 13 scientific functions 

• 
Radians and degrees notations 

• 
Full floating decimal 

• 
F11ll algebraic operation 

• 
Full memory and omni-constant with register exchangers 

• 
Hand-held portable, rechargeable and AC operation with carrying pouch, 179.95 


Lloyd's Accumatic 999 
• 
Memory bank can be added to or subtracted from 

• 
Per!orms chai.n and constant operations, trigonometricfun~trons, loganthms, antilogarithms, powers of numbers 


recr procals ' 
• Battery or AC operation with carrying case measures only
3'¥4" X 5'¥4" X 1", 169.95 ' 
Business Machines, Lower Level, Ayres' Scottsdale Mall 

r---------------------­
L S. Ayres & Company, 1 
1303 Scottsdale Mall, South Bend, Indiana 46612 Phone Orders 291-7700 Please send these calculators: 

Total 
5Qr Handling Charge 
(If applicable) 
4% Indiana Sales Tax 
TOTAL 

Name 
Your Charge Account No. 
Address. 
lipCity. State .. Code. 
o 30-Day Charge 0 Option Charge 0 Check o 75.; C.O.O_ 
Add 50<' handling .charge when sent beyond Ayres· free de­livery area. If this 1s a new account. please send credit refer­ence . 



~~-~ ~-------

Dpinian





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
EJ~~:-?:.6::e. Maior Breakthrough 
Ann McCarry Marlene Zloza Editorial Editor Managing Editor 
Lee Gentine Terry Keeney John Kloos 

1i Wh"'I: 

Business Manager News Editor Advertising Manager ------------am I e 
------------~---------------------A~p=r~il~2~4~,~1~97~4------------------------~~--~-­

Articulate Believers? 
Responding to Fr. Hesburgh's challenge for comments on the COUP report, the Faculty Senate last night passed an amendment to the section on Catholic Character, specifically regarding hiring of faculty with religious considerations. Their proposal reflects the very spirit that the Priorities report suggests towards our Catholic character and deserves immediate attention. 
The Amendment 

The proposed amendment deals with the policy towards recruitment of faculty which states that they " ... should exercise care to attract and appoint from among the most competent teachers ... who are articulate believers;" 
Their proposal suggests the deletion of "and appoint." Not only for con­siderations of discrimination should this amendment be adopted, but more im­portantly to endure the University's declared commitment to Christianity as 
, well as Catholicism. 
Catholic: First Priority 
Without doubt, Notre Dame is and should continue to be, as the COUP report states, a Catholic institution of Catholic character. 
However, the .carrying over of preference for Catholics in recruitment of faculity does more to damage Catholic tradion at Notre Dame than develop it. The considerations in faith can not be 
confined to labels of Catholics or non­
Catholics. 

What could be more ridiculous than 
hiring qualifications based on a declared 
label of belief? 
Labels Definable? According to the COUP report, Notre Dame should search out faculty with a committment to Christ in service and sacrifice. Certainly the Catholic faith professes such a committment. But again, this should not rule out those of other faiths if we wish to fulfill our added committment to Christianity. As the priorities report admits, there exist numerous scholars, who whilethey may not claim the Catholic tradition or Christian faith, that add to our moral and spiritual endeavors. Their worth is vital to the modern ecumenism of Notre Dame. Proposal Warranted 
The Faculty Senate attempts to insure our Catholic and Christian respon­sibilities with their proposal to broaden the considerations in faculty hiring practices.
They have accepted Fr. Hesburgh's as well as Notre Dame's challenge to evaluate our future in terms of the COUP report. Let not this or any subsequent proposals fall upon deaf ears 
-Tom Drape 

D liphant------------~ 

Big Boss Man: Rick Blower Sun Kings:George Belcich, Valerie Zurblis HAL-Feeder: Bob Steinmetz 
Little Boss Man: Dean Janke Keyboards: Tom Modglin, Barb Haug, Controller of the Darkness: Carolina 
MITCHeU l.fl()# KNO~ PQfStP OKAY...
Set Designer: Suzy Augustus Howard Halle, John "Fingars" Flan'1igan At~leti~ Director: John Fineran 
fAIR ANP Sf/.(/JW! ANP..
Reader of the Words: Pat Hanifin Polaroid Technition: Albert D'Anto ilo Ed1tonals: Tom Drape 
\ I 
Much to the dismay of a certain president, the national office holder may soon be delivered from the status of a commodity; no longer to be bought and sold, under the guise of honest election. The senate last week, finally passed a formidable campaign reform measure. 
Ifone believes as I do, that all corrupt politicians do not choose to be, the measure is indeed a dramatic step forward. Through public financing, the candidate would be severed from the corporate um­bililical cord. The cord which strangles him morally, but withOut which he could not even be born into the political mainstream. 
The dilemma of campaign financing is no more clearly illustrated than in Kansas, where Democratic governor Robert Docking has shown that election scandals are not limited to the president, or the Republican party alone. Recently, Docking's brother and chief aid were indicted for their part in a kick-back scheme which settled a $30,000 campaign debt. It wasn't a pocket-filling venture that prompted the kick-back action; it was the exorbitant price of political office. 
Like certrain other capable American politicians, Robert Docking is a man of limited personal wealth. Every election poses the threat of defeat at the hands of a better financed opponent, a more potent campaign machine. Aman such as Docking, with an excellent twelve year record as governor, is driven to wonder how his excellence will benefit the people, if he is not first elected to office. And so, despite a pure desire to serve the people, the candidate is compromised before even elected. 
While the reform measure would alleviate problems for men like Docking, it is not a panacea for political corruption. There will always be the self-serving politician whose under-handed dealings aren't confined to the campaign alone. Perhaps he's the public "servant" with a compulsion for having his home refurnished, an aversion to paying taxes. 
Still, the new measure is a major breakthrough. As might have been expected, it did not come easy amidst the proverbial opponents of progress: Southern Dixiecrats and Richard Nixon. James Allen, Alabama's other glowing symbol of national short-sightedness, staged a marathon filibuster in opposition. But it was a tribute to the measure, that a coalition of strange senate bed-fellows like Hugh Scott, Mike Mansfield and Walter Mondale finally canacelled Allen's show. 
In a larger sense, it was especially satisfying to see Allen remanded to his seat. Last December, with similar legislation pending and Allen struggling to keep another one of his filibusters alive, the White House dispatched an Air Force plane to return with two Oklahoma seanttors, in Allen's support. A contemtible act, in light of the fact that only three weeks earlier, the president had poedged: "To do everything in his power to see that future campaigns to not get out of hand." 
It is obvious that the president will not sign campaign reform into law once it has emerged from the House. Mr. Nixon had described public financing as a "Raid on the public treasury." 
And yet, Americans can take comfort in knowing that campaign 
reform is inevitable_ It is an idea too crucial to die at the hands of veto. 
It will wait in the shadows, with the knowledge that a president's term 
is but four years, and sometimes less_ 
daanesbury 
R£AI)'f?1HG 
WHAT ABOUT 
fJtAN?! JOHN

AIPARP FOR BEST 
PlAN?! HE U/4$

MAlE. (IJNSPIRATOI< 
GO/iS TO... 
:I SAlt:? /11/CH MOl?& 
/1/TCH&U. INJitJ£VEI?..MWI

JOHN WHArr 
MtrcHeu! 1 
\ H~INTO IT.

\ 
~ 


YEAH, BVTP!AN 

WA550 MA{)Gl JOHN 600{}. YOU OKAY, 
Editor-inChief: Tom Drape Managing Editor: Marlene Zloza News Editor: Terry Keeney Editorial Editor: Ann McCarry 
Features Editor: J.R. Baker 
S.M.C. Editor: Pattie Cooney Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy Sports Editor: Greg Corgan Contributing Editor: Fred Graver Special Projects Editor: AI Rutherford Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink 
Night Editors Gary Allletta (Sunday} Tim O'Relley (Monday} Rick Blower (Tuesday} AI Rutherford (Wednesday} Bill Brink (Thursday} 
Day Editors Jim Roslnl (Monday} Ken Girouard (Monday} Tom Russo (Wednesday) Greg_ Banngs (Wednesday} 
Zenon Bldyinskl (Thursday) Mary Janca (Friday) Jim Donathen (Friday} 
Copyreaders Gary Allletta (Monday) Ken Bradford (Monday) Greg Afelio (Tuesday) Pat Hanifan (Tuesday} 

Bob Quakenbush (Wednesday) Greg Rowinski (Thursday} 

,.arry trudeau 
Jim Eder (Thursday} 

Wednesday, April 24, 1974 the observer 
a smile, a rose, and the senator 
an interview with margaret chase smith 
Editor's Note: Senator Margaret Chase Smith, former Republican Senator from Maine, is visiting the Notre Dame campus this week as a fellow of the Woodrow Wilson National Foundation. Wearing her traditional red rose, Senator Smith gave the Observer the following interview. 
Observer: What does being a Woodrow Wilson fellow entail? Senator Smith: Well, the objective of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation is to bring the community and the campus a little closer together, to have a better understanding in the community of the campus and .the students and faculty, and a better understanding by the students and faculty of the community. As I un­derstand it, it was believed that if representatives from various areas-the business professions, government, politics, the Church and so forth-with practical experience could go on to campuses and talk with students and faculty perhaps a little of the practical could rub off on the students 
who had it from the theoretical. And perhaps the visitng professors or senior fellows as they are called would get some of the feeling of the book-learning. Altogether, it is a cooperative thing that's hoped to bring a better understanding and a greater desire on the part of the young people to reverse some of the trends which have been developed and are, perhaps, not too good for the country. Observer: Have you been keeping active in political affairs since you left the Senate? Senator Smith: Not very much. I served so very, very long and 
had a long time in both the House and Senate. Of course, I keep up with the day to day news and try to keep myself informed. But I have not done anything politically as far as campaigns are concerned. I feel that after the outcome of my own campaign of 1972, perhaps it would be well for me to take a little rest from politics and let someone else do it. So I've not participated on the campaign trails. 
Observer: There was much criticism of Senator Muskie during that campaign because he supported the Democratic candidate who opposed you. Do you feel that he somehow violated a certain un­written code of the Senate? Senator Smith: Well, this is an area that I would not want to make a judgment on Senator Muskie. I was disappointed, of course, largely because he used age as the reason for his support for my opponent rather than my voting record. My voting 
record, I think, could not be challenged. If it could have been they would have gotten into it during the campaign. 
So we all have a right to our own views and I'm not critical of Senator Muskie. Ifhe felt that he wanted a change that was his right. Yet I was disappointed, of course, for him to say that when he was seventy, he would know better than to run for re­election. I noticed he corrected it the next day at a press conference and said he didn't know he meant exactly that because he might be running when he was ninety. So · he must have heard from home. 
Observer: Do you feel that Watergate and 
the President's other troubles affected the recent Michigan elections? Senator Smith: I can't tell about that. We have a right to assume so. Yet, on the other hand whether it was a protest vote on all that has been going on, whether it was a protest vote on the president's participation, 
whether it was a more desirable candidate 
who won-I didn't know either one of the 
candidates and I have no right to even 
speculate on what it was-but it could be any 
number of reasons. 

I think the Jerry Ford district that was taken by a Democrat was very cloy. It came about by the stay-at-homes as a protest vote. I don't think there's much question about that. But this last one, I don't know enough about it to give you a reasonable answer. Observer: Was the President's cam­paigning in the last Michigan election a detriment to the GOP candidate? Should he have stayed in Washington? Senator Smith: Well, I think there's a time for the President to go out around. I, again, am not the one to make a judgment on it because I always felt that people in the state were well able to make their own decisions without an outside coming in. I would prefer to have the President come in at some meeting that was not partisan~utside of the campaign rather than during a cam­paign, as far as I personally am concerned. 
Observer: Do you seek any likely 
presidential candidates for '76? 

Senator Smith: No, I think it's too early. I 
think we should get through the 1974 cam­
paigns and see where we're going from here 
out, but begin immediately following the 
November elections and get into the 1976 
decisions without waiting until 1976 for it. 
I think there are any number of highly qualified candidate-will be. I think that they're not necessarily from the Senate, however. It seems to me that there many 

(Photo by Maria Gallagher) 
other highly qualified, experienced people­experienced in administration-who would Well qualify if they were willing to go into .it. 
Observer: Is President Nixon nurthing the GOP party? Senator Smith: I think the president would help the party and help the nation if he would expidite action and not continue the delay. If he is not going to give the in­formation that is called for it seems to me that he should state it and stay with it. I personally believe that he could do a great deal to expidite action. I believe that the Senate Watergate Committee had very, very full and complete hearings. They could be summarized and analyzed and be used by the Judiciary Committee of the House in expiditing its action. 
But if, of course, the White House delays and there's a delay on the part of any members of the House, there's a double delay which can be very dmaaging. I think the damage that is coming out from this is the confusion and the suspicion that has been created and continues to increase. The suspicions on the part of the American people are far more damaging than any action that might come by impeachment and Senate trial. Observer: Should President Nixon resign? Senator Smith: No. I am very much op­posed to the President's resigning. I think this would not solve anything. It would be damaging to our system, because it would indicate if after elections any group wanted to make a change they could start ac­cusations and perhaps do some of the things they are doing now. I think the only way that will clear the air and bring about a more stabalizing situation in this country is for the House to vote impeachment. But there should be a clear understanding of the difference between impeachment and conviction: that impeachment is simply a means of saying we have some things that need to be looked into under judicial process. The impeachment is voted and goes over to the Senate for hearing chaired by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court who I think has the confidence and respect of the American people generally. 
The hearings could be held. Mr. Nixon, 
the President of the United States, would 
have opportunity to prove his innocence if 
he is .innocent and if he is not, then he should 
be proved guilty and the American people 
should know what the guilt is. And then with 
a complete housecleaning in the Executive 
ffranch of the government we could go on to 
the business of running the government. 
But first we must understand the difference 
between impeachment and conviction. 
I haven't seen anything to date that would 
indicate that he had done anything illegal. 
What the future proves, we'll have to wait 
for. I go on the assumption that a person is 
innocent until proven guilty. And of course, 
the President has not been proven guilty. 
Observer: While you were in the Congress, 
did you ever feel that your sex was a han­
dicap? Say, for instance, on the Armed 
Services Committee? 

Senator Smith: That question would better 
be asked of the senators I served with. 
No. I did not. I consider women people. I 
believe, I feel very strongly that one should 
not take on responsibilities unless they feel 
they are qualified, unless they are willing 
the full responsibilities without special 
privileges. I have never asked for special 
privileges. And never received any. I have 
always carried my part of the respon­
sibility. 

I like to think that I continue to be a lady. 
But I was not elected as a woman senator. I 
was elected as one of two senators from the 
state of Maine. As a member of the House 
and the Senate I always demanded and 
received whatever was due one i~y
position, both as one of the two senat s 
from the state of Maine and as one on t · se 
important committees on which I serv . In 
those positions I always appreciated when 
fellow senators said that I was a ladf but 
firm when it came to anything that belonged 
to me and my position. / 
Observer: You co-sponsored the Equal 
Rights Amendment. What did you hope it 
would accomplish? 

Senator Smith: I have always co-sponsored 
the Equal Rights Amendment ' with the 
reservation that I was and am for equal 
rights without special privileges. I think, it 
must be fully understood that in having a constitutional amendment that gives women equal rights carries with it the full responsibilities and not given to special legislation for women or special privileges. Observer: By equal responsibilities and special privileges do you mean, for instance that women should be drafted? Senator Smith: I think if they ask for equal rights they have to take their position as full fledged representative citizens, yes. Observer: Some people feel that the amendment cannot change the long­standing attitudes of the people and therefore the amendment will not accom­plish much. How do you feel about this? Senator Smith: Well, I just think that if it isn't going to make any difference why object to it? Let's have the Constitution clear in these days with the women having earned the hard way their independence. They're full fledged citizens. Let the Constitution say so and have the ad­ministration of the law rule. Observer: As the first woman nominated to the Presidency, do you feel that people should begin to think about having women in higher offices? Senator Smith: I think qualified women, yes. I always use the word qualified. I think that it is very essential that women ap­pointees, or women candidates should be sure that they are going to give whatever they're asking for, all that is required, and are capable of doing. 
I think every time there is a women candidate who is not qulaified doesn't help the cause of women. But it must be remembered that there have been many pioneer women and a great deal of work done in a few short years that have brQught us to the place we're in now. Women are 
. people. And it should go on the basis of qualified people rather than qualified men 1or women. 


--------------~ -----­
Wednesday, April 24, 1974
the observer 

Astronaut sy~nposiu1n ~noved to ACC due to large interest 
Due to the large public interest in the astronauts' symposium of the University of Notre Dame's Engineering Centennial Celebration, the event has been moved from the CCE auditorium to the ACC arena. 
The new location for the free, public symposium, which will be held at 2 p.m. Friday (April 26), will allow the entire audience to see the event "live." An overflow crowd at the CCE auditorium would have had to view it on closed circuit television. 
In the symposium, moderated by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
Campus housing guaranteed for all 
by George Velcich feiting their $50 pre-registration Staff Reporter 
fee. 
"Presently, we have 105 cards 

"Anyone who turned in his that were turned in late: those campus housing contract by April constitute our waiting list. If 15 will be given a room in the hall people choose not to retain their of his choice," stated Fr. John reservations those 105 will begin to Mulcahy, director of campus get rooms." Mulcahy explained. residence, when questioned about Three halls have an excess of the campus situation next fall. residents planned for next year: 
All but approximately 10 of the Alumni, Morrissey • and Keenan. over 800 beds originally needed The office will shift approximately were found when a large number of 30 incoming freshman into other students with safe housing num-dorms rather than transfer present bers did not return their con-students to other halls. tracts. Those ten will be off "Most students who are in doubt campus unless other students about their situation will know by cancel their reservations, for-May 10," concluded Fr. Mulcahy. 

M• • t 11 t 
aerospace, chemical, civil, elec­
CampUS lDlS ry CO ec Stricalandmechanical~ngine~ring,metallurgy and matenals science, engineering science and ar­for tornado Vl.Ctl•ms chitecture. The College of
fU n d S Engineering, under Dean Joseph 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 

The Office of Campus Ministry recently collected funds and clothing to aid tornado victims in southern Indiana. The collection was organized by Campus Ministry with the help of the Hall President's Council and the Community Service Director in each dormitory. 
Funds collected in each dorm and in Sacred Heart Church totaled $1,630.40. According to Sister Jane Pitz this money was given to the Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund to be distributed as was necessary to the tornado victims. 
Sister Pitz also noted that four station wagons were filled with clothes by the student body to aid the disaster victims. The clothes were given to the salvation Army who was organizing the clothes distribution program in the emergency areas. 
Sister Pitz announced that Campus Ministry had received a letter from James Goodin, chairman of the St. Joseph County Chapter of the American Red 


The Playhouse 
525 N. Hill 
Live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat. 
Happy Hour Mon-Fri 5-7 p.m. Drinks are 2 for 1 
Jam Session Tonight 
with 
Johnny Sayles and the Inde endent Movement 
C.S.C., Notre Dame president, astronauts William A. Anders, Col. Frank Borman, Charles Conrad, Jr., Dr. Joseph P. Kerwin, and James A. McDivitt will discuss some of the philosophical questions which have resulted from man's conquering space. 
Two panelists, Anders and Borman, were members of the Apollo 8 crew, which made the first lunar flight. Currently, Anders is a commissioner of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission and Borman is senior vice president of operations for Eastern Airlines. 
Conrad, who commanded Apollo 12 and piloted the Gemini 5 and 11 
. . 

Cross, m ~hJCh .~he chapter ex­pres.se~ Its grateful ap­preciaho.n" to . the No~re Dame 
commumty for Its donations to the disaster relief fund. 
Meetings for federal jobs held today 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 
A summer internship program 

involving work for the federal 
government in Washington, D.C. 
was announced yesterday by Dr. 
Richard Willemin, director of the 
Placement Bureau. 
Internship positions are 

available in the areas of public 
administration, accounting, 
management, legal affairs, and 
public information. Juniors and 
seniors in the top third of their 
class are eligible for the progr~m 
in areas related to their majors. 
Applicants will be screened by a 
special placement committee. 
Those interested may meet with 

Willemin at 4:00 p.m. today in 
room 321 of the Administration 
Building. 
missiOns, and Dr. Kerwin were members of the Skylab 2 crew. Conrad commanded the mission while Kerwin served as science pilot. Conrad now is vice president-operations for American Television and Communications Corporation, Denver, Colo. A medical doctor, Kerwin recently was named chief of physician astronauts for NASA. 
McDivitt, who is senior vice president of Consumers Power Company, Jackson, Mich., com­manded the Apollo 9 ten-day earth orbital mission and was command pilot of Gemini 4, a 66 orbit mission. 
The symposium is one of several events in a special two-day celebration marking 100 years of engineering education at Notre Dame. Other centennial highlights include a Student Recognition Luncheon at which students will be honored for achievement and 
service to the college, the presentation of Honor Awards at a 
Centennial Banquet to several individuals and an organization for significant contributions to the advancement of engineering or architecture, and the awarding of honorary degrees at a special academic convocation. 
The main speaker at the con­
vocation will be Dr. Jerome 
Wiesner, president of the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology. 
Notre Dame, which was the first 
American Catholic university to 
offer engineering courses, 
provides undergraduate and 
graduate degree programs in 
C. Hogan, includes six depart­
ments with 85 faculty members and 1 009 students including fresh­man intents. 
259-1981 
IROO·A·CAR 


Jordan Ford 
609 E a sf Jefferson Mishawaka 





CLOCKWORK ORANGE 
Wednesday, April 24 only $1.00 6:30, 9, 11 :30pm Washington Hall 
........ ,, 'IIII 
256-0111 


THINK 
HOT 
Let your" imagination run wild ... try to recall those beach and pool hours, those hot sum­mer days (and nights). It's no fantasy that you'll need the right apparel to get the most :)Ut of your sun time. Well, that's where we come in; we've got it all. Come. See. 

ON THE CAMPUS .. , NOTRE DAMI' 
Wednesday, April 24, 1974 
_7 
Netters swamp Michigansquads lor 13th victory 
by John Vincent 

The Notre Dame tennis team captured its 13th victory in 18 matches as they defeated a fine Central Michigan squad 8-1 at the 
Courtney Tennis Center on Friday. 
It was the second time in less than a week that the Irish manhandled the opposition beating Western Michigan on Wednesday by the same score. 
Junior Chris Kane turned in a gutty performance as he defeated Central Michigan's Marc Gelina 7­6, 6-7, 7-5. Kane was down by 4-1 and later 5-2 in the third set before staging his remarkable comeback. 
It was the eighth season victory for the Rancho Sante Fe, California native. 
Senior Mark Reilly, who suffered a serious leg injury in a car ac­cident last winter, has returned to 
·the Irish lineup and added skill and experience to the squad. In the six matches since his comeback he has captured five and dropped only one. Coach Tom Fallon has con­tinued moving him up in the lineup starting him out at the sixth 
Stickmen lose; Purdue tonight 
by George Eckes The difference between victory and defeat for the N.D. Lacrosse team against Chicago Friday night was the play of Chicagoan Doug Carter, an-ex-All American from Maryland who pocketed six goals en route to a 8-4 victory over the Irish. It was a see-saw battle through the 1st half and most of the 3rd quarter. At the end of the first quarter Rich Caron had knotted the game at 1-1 and at halftime it wa~> 2-2 thanks to Ron Sadowski's goal with 8:58 left in the 2nd. The defensive struggle ended after the half when Steve Tarnow put the Irish into the lead 4-3 with his second goal of the period 10:45 into the third quarter. Then Carter went into action. Taking the ensuing face-off from Jay Williams he rushed down the field and slammed goal number four past Irish goalie Ken Wright, who took on the starting reigns due to Joe Lepley's recent broken thumb which prevents him from playing the remainder of the season. Twenty-five seconds later Carter dumped in goal number five, and with 1:25 left in the third period goal number six .made the scord 6-4 going into the last stanza. The dramatics ended when two goals by Chicago extended the lead to 8-4. Chicago went on to take tour­nament honors with a win on Saturday and Notre Dame was able to salvage the weekend with a high-scoring 11-10 barnstorming win over Obio University on a 
position to where he is now playing in the fifth spot. 
Sophomore Juan Inchauste continued his fine form Friday as he defeated CM's Mike Ackerman 6-3, 6-2. It was lnchauste's 15th victory of the season as he has dropped only three. This season is the first taste of collegiate tennis for Inchauste, who was a finalist in the New England singles cham­pionship last summer. 
The match between Notre Dame and Ohio State was called off because of the rain and wind on Sunday. 



OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
ISOLATED? 
+ 
There is a college that believes human reason can discover truth. 

+ 
There is a college that believes in true Catholic principles. 


+There is a college where students take real joy in studying. 
+ There is a college that emphasizes the im­
portance of reasoned discussion. That college is Thomas Aquinas College. A tutor from Thomas Aquinas College will be at the Morris Inn Sunday and Monday to discuss principles of true Catholic education with Notre Dame students. Inquire at desk. 
OldiesOidiesOidiesOidiesOidiesOidiesOidies 
; 
:a 
0 
::2 ·-•fl) 
0 
fl) 
GJ
·­
"0
-
0 
fl) 
GJ
·­
::2 0 
fl) 
"0·-GJ -
0 
fl) 
GJ
·­



Oldies Night TONIGHT 
Dance to all your favorites from the pastil I 
8:30 to 2:30 
Also special price on .... 
Super beer 
i0 
0­
a. 
fl) 
-0 a.
-· 
CD 
fl) 
0­
a.
-· 
CD 
fl) 
0 
a: 
fl) 

THi CHEAP TRUCK IS COMING I• Baggage Truck To New York 

NOMINAJJONS FOR GSU  I I  
Now being accepted for Vice-President  
and Secretary-Treasurer.  

All interested Grads see Bill Lavage, Memorial Library or Paul Bolduc, 373NS1i, Elections April 26 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
FURNITURE: Living room and bedroom. Excellent condition, reasonable price. Must relocate. Call 272-0456. 
Webcor stereo. Includes AM­FM Garrard Automatic turn­table-Stereo S-track-2 Webcor speakers. Excellent sound ­Excellent condition. $325. Call 1024. 
Handmade Indian Turquiose Jewelry from New Mexico. Fine selection of bracelets, rings, watchbands, accesories. Call 7833 or drop by 10 Lyons. 
1968 Chevy Imp. Custom VB, blue. Radio, Excellent tires, clean, reliable, $800, Jim 283­7733 1-4. 
Sanyo 3300 KA Quad receiver at 20 watts per channel R.M.S. JVC demodulator, 4 speakers. Excellcent condition 5 months old. List· $845. Can be had for $575. Call Ed 1506. 
For Sale: Standard 3-speed bike. Good condition $15 or best offer. Call Charley 1409. 
Sony STR-110 AM-FM stereo receiver. Includes Sony TC-l21 Cassette and speakers. 6 months old. Excellent con­dition. Call 8728. 
Sony Trinitron color T.V., Solid state KV-1201. Only 6 months old. Excellent condition. Call 8728. 
Panasonic Amp, turntable, 4 speakers -1'12 yr. old -nice sound, nice price. Call Steve 234-7848. 
1966 Ford Fairlane. Asking price $375. If interested call Rick Pyfer 234-8052. 
For Sale: Panasonic S-track tapedeck. 1 yr. old -call Gary 233-4669 or at Observer office. 
FOR RENT 
For Summer Rental. Large nice house, 4 bedrooms. Fully furmished. Utilities, washer ­dryer included. Approx. $185 a month. 234-1972. 
3 man house for summer. Good location on Notre Dame Ave. Call Gary 1373. 
5 bedroom house for rent near campus. Excellent condition. 233-1032. 
House for Rent: 4 bedrooms. Newly furnished Wall to wall carpeting . Close to campus. Available tor summer and Fall ocupency. Graduate students only. Call AI Brasseur 289-2463 bdefore 5 p.m. 
LOST AND FOUND 
'Found: set of keys in a leather case in the A. V. -.eatre of Continuing Ed. Cer-rer. Call 6423. 
Lost in Space Tee! Soc-Psych. notebook; IMPC HANT!!! Call Larry 3301. 
Lost: Silver medal (head of Christl on chain. Important memento. Please Call 8653. 
Lost: 1974 N.D. ring; blue stone initials KPMcK: Probably on interhall softball field, Tuesday Apr. 16. Call Kevin 3138. REWARD 
Lost: N.D. ring Saturday. Initials MKD. REWARD. $10. Call Marty 8253. 
PERSONALS 
Wanted: All outstanding shares of Lynn Kroeder stock. Will pay competitive price. Call 287-2176. 
Greaney and Krauss. You'll be great!!! Best of luck. 
Four more days 'till Alexis Coquillard's 149th Birthday Questions, Call 7880. 
Girl Wanted: Babysitter. Tall, blonde, and wholesome. (Type: Mother -image) For interview Call Chunck 233-6973. 
NOTICES 
CHEAPEST WAY TO 
TRAVEL! SCOOTER Britain 
Europe $33 a week. Lambretta. seats two. Also Worldwide Overland Camping and lowest air fares. Trail Blazers TOLL FREE 800-223-5586­
Experienced typist will do: term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-5332. 
SUMMER STORAGE: Reserve space now at Mrs. Cooper's -clean, dry, secure and reasonable. Will pick up outside dorm. 272-3004. 
THE DOMINICANS educators, preachers, pastors, missionaries, counselors. A community of men praying and working together, bringing the Word and the Gospel to the spiritual, intellectual and social needs of the world today. Write to Rev. Joseph Payne O.P., 5 Hill House Avenue, New Haven, Conn. 06505. 
Go Cheap Truck tor baggage to New York. Expert handling at the lowest prices. Call Bob or Mike 1248, Frank 8823. 
GRADUATES: Would you like to teach for two years in Samoa (South Pacific)? See Fr. Schlaver La Fortune -7308. Other opportunities available. 
Take the Greyhound from N.D. circle to Chicago every Friday at 4:40p.m. Call Tom 212-1807. 
Baggage truck going to Southern ConnectictJit_ For information Call Jan. 8048. 
MET CLUB: Deposits will be collected Mon. Apr. 29 McCandless Hall 5-7 p.m. Tues. Apr. 30 B-P Lounge 5-7 p.m. Wed. May 1 Morrissey Lounge 5-7 p.m. Bikes, typewriters, golf clubs will not be taken unless deposits are received. For information Call Bill Kelly 234-5193. 
WANTED 
Bikelass couple willing to store two bikes (1 man's and 1 woman's) over summer vacation in exchange tor their use for evening recreation. Call Don Bouffard at 7354. 
HOUSE PARENTS: Married couple, pretereably without children to live in Hirls Group Home. Room and board plus monthly salary. $400 upward depending on experience. Summer job with posibllity of continuation. Husband may work or study outsiC:e Home. Time off is provided. Call Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233·9491. 
HELP WANTED! OVERSEAS JOBS-Australia, Europe, ..S. America, Africa. Students all professions and occupations $700 to $3000 monthly. Ex­penses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free Information. TRANS WORLD RESEARCH CO. Dept. F3 P.O. BOX 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
Part -time help, weekend evenings parking cars. Call 291-5131 Mr. Quinn. 
Wanted: 1 or 2 bedroom apartment for married couple. 
Must  be  within  walking  
distance of I.U.S.B.  Call John  
282-1568.  

2 roommates for house off Eddy St. for Fall. Call 234-23« or 8691. 


the observer Wednesday, April 24, 1974 
Weather cold. bats hot as Irish lose to Wolverines 
by John Higgins 

University of Michigan 18, Notre Dame 11. No, despite the football­like score, the Big 10 gridiron co­champions did not upset the nation's number-one football team yesterday, but it was a day better suited to football, or better yet, outdoor ice hockey and snowball fights, than a fair-weather sport such as baseball. Numbed by 35degree weather, a strong, biting wind and particularly 18 Wolverine hits, 10 of them for extra bases, three Irish hurlers failed to contain the potent Michigan attack as Notre Dame's season slate fell to 10-17. 
Yesterday's action, originally scheduled as a doubleheader, was reduced to a single nine-inning contest to the relief of all those unlucky enough to have had to sit through the unspring-like South Bend afternoon. The five pitchers who saw action, however, may have regretted that the game was played at all as their inflated ERA's 11 walks, and sore arms will attest to. 

The cold did not have such an adverse effect on the hitters, though, as 27 hits were showered over Cartier Field. Free-swinging was the key to the offensive ex­plosion as hitters teed off on the tormented pitchers, probably so they could get their plate chores over with as quickly as possible and return to the shelter of the dugouts. 
Michigan, scoring in all frames 

John Fineran'===========;=;===========================================================;===========;=;=;=======;===;===;: 
Blarney Stone{d) 
.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··········································--·.·.-.·.· R lax·ng W •th S JJ
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 

to pot an
e l l u y advantage. 
Go!!, relaxing? Give me a break. Frustrating, maybe. But not relaxmg. 
. . . . .
How ca~ ~ou have relaxation, peace of mmd, If you consistently fmd~ours;lf h1ttmg _out of san~traps, through trees, any~here except to the ,.reen. Andputtmg,forgetlt. Howcanyouberelaxedifyouhavetocana lO-footer to save bo~ey? Instead of_golf, the game should be called c~ase. 
Wei~, ther~ are six golfe~s on this campus who have fou~d the hidden meanmg to hfe, tho~e relaxmg moments on a golf co~rse which we ~elow­average duffers Wish for, dream of, read about m golf magazmes.
They're a talented sextet, a confident sextet. 
This confidence came only through hard work and determination, the same determination which beat Southern Cal, the same determination which beat Alabama, the very same confidence which won countless basketball games, including an impossible one, UCLA. 
This same confidence has shown itself in all kinds of weather and against the best competition which the Midwest has to offer. This con­fidence won three dual matches by unbelievable margins. It brought a third place in a highly-competitive invitational last weekend in In­~M~~-. 
It is a shame you couldn't have seen it when you had the chance. You would have seen Jeff Burda rolling a second shot on 18 within eight feet of the cup. You would have seen his fellow co-captain, Paul Betz, blast his third shot out of the sand on the same hole. 
Jim Culveyhouse has confidence. There is no other word to describe his play on and around a green. His walk illicits it, and so does his scorecard. 
Paul Koprowski has it, too. More often than not this season, he has used it to his advantage to shootextraordinaryrounds. You couldn't ask more from this newcomer. 
Confidence can easily be shaken in a golfer if he allows himself to become too emotional after a shot. That's the difference between the average doffer and the great one--the ability to control emotion. 
Mike Kistner not only scrambled against Loyola, but his clubs lived to tell the story about an horrendous eight on the par-four 13th. Kistner wisely and confidently allowed them too. · 
Finally, there is Ed Whelan. He is only the sixth man. In basketball, the sixth man is just as important. He is the man who must have the cool, the confidence to come off the bench cold and pour in some important shots. 
Whelan, however, is different. He could possibly be an average golfer and was until he learned to control his emotions. Now he's not only the sixth man, but also, as Betz says, "capable of breaking par." 
Talent and confidence equals relaxation. And relaxation for the Notre Dame golf team is supplied by first-year coach Noel O'Sullivan. 
During the course--physical education--of everyone's career here at Notre Dame, O'Sullivan has surfaced. You've met him in a handball court, you've met him near the swimming pool. And during the spring time, you've met him in groups at either the practice tee, the driving range in the Rock or out on the putting green. "Gentlemen, this is golf-­that's g-o-1-f," K.O. mimics him. 
Someone once said to me you mimic persons you only admire. Well, I can mimic President Nixon, but I would prefer to mimic Sully. I like him, and so do his players. 
Burda--"He has made it a relaxed atmosphere. This might sound 
farfetched, but it is in everyone's mind to make it to the NCAA. Coach 
O'Sullivan is responsible for that. He's the most enthusiastic person I've 
rver met. Things are really looking up." 
Betz--"Sully got me thinking I could play better. The difference this year is his motivation. He's got us thinking and playing golf everyday. Everyone wants to do very well, and it is a lot more enjoyable." 
Kistner--"Sully has instituted a positive attitude. He's made all the difference. Golf is 90 percent mental, and Sully has supplied us with a feeling of confidence." 
Koprowski--"Sully has given everyone a fair chance. He's given me 
and everyone else a lot of encouragement. That's the big thing." 
Culveyhouse--"Seriously, he's the finest man I've ever met, perfect for 
the program. He's behind you 100 percent. He's a super guy who keeps us 
all loose. To him, the team always comes first." 
Whelan--"He's allowed everyone to be more relaxed. Everyone wants 
to do well, to play the way they should. We don't have to worry about 
organization. Sully takes care of that and allows us to play to our 
capabilities." 

Someone once told me you could tell a person's nature by his actions on 
a golf course. Well, if this is the case, how can Noel O'Sullivan, as 
energetic as anyone you'll ever meet, supply relaxation? 
But, then again, who cares? Certainly the Notre Dame golfers don't. 
They're thankful to have him, and they might just be thanking and 
thanking themselves right to a NCAA bid. 
but the first, erased a 2-1 Irish lead with three runs in the third to take the lead for good, with Ted Mahan and Pete Ross leading the charge with run-producing doubles off Irish starter and loser Mark Pitt­man. 
Larry Gustavson upped the lead to 5-2 with a long home run to right field inthe fourth, and four straight doubles brought in four more tallies in the fifth. 
Notre Dame, held scoreless on two hits for three innings, broke loose for four runs of its own in the fifth on two Michigan errors, two walks, and singles by Pete Schmidt and Ron Goodman to send winning pitcher Arthur Adams packing. 
Bob Stratta relieved Pittman in the sixth and surrendered back-to­hack leadoff triples to Dan Damani and Dick Walterhouse for one run, and after the Irish went down 1-2-3 in their half, Michigan put the game on ice, so to speak, with three markers on a walk and singles by Gustavson and Damani 
insurmountable 13-6 

Notre Dame managed two runs . th th b t h't J'
m e seven u one 1 , 1m 
Smith's second sin le of the da and rallied in the gbottom of ~~ ninth to score thrice on Smith's free pass Mark Schmitz' single two-run t~i le b Pat Coleman and a sacrifi~e fl~ by Pete Clemens. 
. In between, ~he Wol.vermes netted. two runs m the eighth on four ~mgles. off Stratta an? th_ree runs I~ the fmal frame be~md_JUSt one. hit, a~other ~amam tnple, agamst ~ehever Mitch S~oltz.. . The Insh belted out mne hits m 

The play here was close, but the score wasn't as the Irish nine dropped another game, this time to Michigan, on a wirtd-swept Cartier Field. Notre Dame is off until this weekend when Illinois State comes in for a three-game set. 
the affair, led by two apiece from ,...----~~-------.
infielders Schmidt, Smith, and Schmitz. Every man in the Michigan lineup save one had at least two hits, ninth-place hitter Damani three, while Ross and Jim Sichta chased home three runs apiece.The Notre Dame defense, extremely tight in recent games, did not add much support as it committed five costly errors. 
The Irish continue their schedule Friday at home against the Illinois State and the same teams clash Saturday in a doubleheader. 
•


FCA llleets 1n ACC 
The formal creation of Notre Dame's Fellowship of Christian Athletes will take place this evening in the team meeting room of the ACC. 
Dues will be collected from student-athletes and adult spon­sors at the meeting. All FCA members are required to pay the dues. The chapter membership is valid for one year from the date of payment. Those who wish only to attend meetings are not required to pay dues. 
Coach Bill Hickey has agreed to become the adult advisor of the Notre DameFCAchapter. Hickey and Irish center Mark Brenneman recently spoke to a group at Westminster Presbyterian Church about the FCA effort at Notre Dame. 
Election of officers will occur at the final meeting of the school year. Four officers are slated to be elected--captain, captain-elect, secretary and treasurer. 
· 
GIRLS~~t\AH~r ··~~ ~··· 
Is now taking applications for waitresses for this summer and next year. Please come in as soon as possible, or call Rick 233-1115 
If you compare, you'll select ltna... If you don't compare, don't say we didn't warn you! 
JIM CAMPBELL  
120 W. LaSalle Street  
Suite 1001  
South Bend, Indiana 233-8207 The JEtna College Plan ...  (i§u§i LIFE &CASUALTY 

Life Insurance for students 
A:tna Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut 

ATTENTION 
ALL 

RADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements 
will be taken 
for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
Thursday 
April 25 
and 
Friday 
April 26 
between 
9:00-4:00 

at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 











