On The Inside 
Letters to the Editor ... page 4 
Senior Bar 
... page 6 



Vol. IX, No. 6 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Thursday, September 5, 1974 

Hickey outlines neW" 

goals for St. Mary's 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 

Revisions in Student Affairs, a change in the college by­Jaws and governance structure, and the institution of new majors and course options are among goals outlined by St. Mary's Acting President Dr. William Hickey, for this year. 
Hickey contends that his is an "acting", and not "caretaker" administration while a permanent president · for the college is being sought. 
"This will be an administration which acts and which is active in giving encouragement and support to individuals and departments," he stated. 
The governance of the college and its relation to the Board of Regents, and to the Corporate Board of the Congregation of the Holy Cross is one issue up for con­sideration and revision by the administration. 
Presently, the acting President stated, "the college is engaged in a serious study, which will result is a revision of the college by-laws, and will clarify the lines of responsibility between the Board of Regents and the college itself. 
"For the first time, faculty and administration will have clear, defined statement of the relationships between the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and St. Mary's College, and of the College's Board of Regents," he said. 
Through departmental planning on a 3-5 year basis, Hickey hopes to develop new course options and major programs, particularly those majors which would involve several disciplines. 
"On a a 3-5 year basis, we can project the needs of the academic departments in terms of course options, new majors, faculty needs as related to program needs, and facility needs." 
"At the same time," he continued, "we will be able to evaluate the financial implications of these undertakings, and realistically determine what we can do as a college. 
The Student Affairs office is conducting a study, which will project things we would like to start in the areas of dorm life and reccreational activities," he said. 
Hickey foresees "the incorporation of the educational experience into the dorm situation, through seminars conducted in the dorms on problems facing students, such as religious attitudes, and moral qu_est~ons of sex and drugs." The seminar programs would be offered in conjunction with Notre Dame, he said. 
In addition he added that some classes might be held in the dorms. "'Some classes lend themselves quite well to a more informal atmosphere which the halls could provide," he explained. . . 
'Our relationship with Notre Dame has been an Im­portant consideration over the past two years. We expect co-operation to continue and are looking for new ways to continue this co-operation." 
Hickey continued by listing several events which he feels are indicative of an improving relationship between ND and SMC. St. Mary's Education Department's Ed­
~ ~~ 

Macheca replies 
SLC students react to alcohol directive 
by Bill Brink Senior Night Editor 

Dean of Students John Macheca yesterday clarified his alcohol directive issued last Wednesday with an explanation of the proscribed penalties for on-campus, underage drinking. 
The clarification was made by Macheca in response to the reactions of several students on the Student Life Council. 
SLC student members maintained that their council should have been consulted before the specifications of the penalties issued. Four SLC district representatives and Pat McLaughlin, Student Body President, expressed disenchantment with the maximum $50 fine as punishment for underage drinking. 
Darlene Palma, District 11 represen­tative, questioned Macheca's authority to enact such a rule. She joined other representatives in conceding that Macheca had the right to issue a directive. 
"But I don't think he has the con­

stitutional power to prosecute," Palma 
said. 
She pointed out that the SLC was called into an emergency session last year to suspend the current party rules, "so it follows logically that the SLC should be called and consulted now." 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Faculty representatives on the Student Life Council yesterday expressed interest in evaluating at the next SLC meeting the Dean of Students John Macheca 's direc­tive halting all underage drinking at Notre Dame. 
Dr. Julian Pleasants commented that SLC rules and Dean of Students guidelines often overlap and that it is difficult to determine who has jurisdiction in a specific problem area. 
Pleasants, a Microbiology professor, pointed out that last year the SLC wrote the rules concerning student drinking while the Dean of Students determined guidelines for parties and student discipline. 

"I would suspect that the directive falls within the jurisdiction of the Dean of Students," Pleasants said. 
"The University obviously needs to 
impose some penalties to protect itself. 

Small penalties may help us to avoid 
severe problems," he added. 


Dennis Sullivan, District IV represen­tative, also feels the SLC should have been consulted before the rule was put into ef­fect. He said it would be one of the first things brought up at the SLC. meeting. 
Sullivan is concerned with the vagueness of the direGt.ive. He said that the way it is worded leaves it too general. 
"We want to know definite instances where the $50 fine could be imposed. . .when does it apply?" 
District III representative, Brian Hegarty, expressed similar concern about the consequences of such general rules for punishment. In most cases we won't have trouble, but we have to protect the few students who might encounter trouble." 
McLaughlin agreed with the views of the other students regarding the vagueness of the directive. 
"We've got to have something where the students know where they stand," he said. He stated the vagueness might result in only one or two problems a semester, but added that the students involved must be protected. 
In reference to his recent letter to Macheca, McLaughlin said that the rules were subject to review by the SLC. 
~ ~ 
Librarian Maureen Gleason stated the SLC will announce its views after a meeting tentatively scheduled for Mon­day, September 9. 
Gleason noted that she would have to reread the Macheca statement and review the SLC bylaws before commenting on the situation. 
New SLC representative Dr. Walter Nicgorski stated that the Macheca directive "appears to be .a reasonable ruling in light of the interpretation of In­diana law he's been given." 
Nicgorski, a General Program professor, said he does not have enough background on SLC procedures to determine whether the directive infringes upon SLC policies. 
Government Professor Dr. Michael Francis, also a new SLC representative, said he has not had the opportunity to effectively evaluate the situation. Other faculty representatives including Thomas Werge, William Sexton, Paul Conway, and Daniel Winicur, culd not be reached for comment. 
~~--~­

Thursday. Septemb~~ 5, 1974
the observ_er 
warld 


briefs 

WASHINGTON <UPI) -Mary Louise Smith, co-<:hairman of the Republican National Committee for the last six months, is expected to succeed committee chairman George Bush, the newly-tapped U. 
S. envoy to China, on Sept. 16 at a special meeting of the party's ruling body. 
NEWARK, N.J. <UPI) -Scores of persons wearing swimming goggles and plastic bags over their heads looted a tear-gassed supermarket Wednesday as police in riot gear tried to quell van­dalism stemming from weekend violence. 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-Administration sources said Wednesday that President Ford plans to name White House Chief of Staff Alexander M. Haig Jr. to command all NATO forces in Europe·-an appointment opposed by at least one of the 14 allies which must approve it. 
LONDON <UPI> -Scores of police surrounded Westminster Abbey early Thursday and captured three men in what police said was an apparent abortive attempt to steal the Stone of Scone, 
symbol of · Scottish Nationalism. 

CAIRO <UPI> -Arab foreign ministers Wednesday ended a four­day conference highlighted by the first step in a wide-ranging diplomatic drive by the Palestinians to gain international support of their position in the Middle East conflict. 
NEW DELHI <UPI> -The Indian parliament Wednesday ap­proved a government move converting the tiny Himalayan border kingdom of Sikkim into an associate member of the Indian union. 
TOKYO <UPI) -TriStar jetliner with 165 persons aboard landed safely Wednesday after developing engine trouble on a domestic flight, all Nippon Airways announced. It was the second such in­cident this week andn ANA said it was grounding all six of its U.S.­made jumbo planes for inspection. 
an campu• taday 
4:00 p.m.--lecture, "application of fast response methods for the study of radiation-induced free radical processes in cells," by dr. g.e. adams,•conference· rm. in rad.lab, free 
5:00 and 7:00p.m .--rum, "mandabi" sponsored by black studies, eng. aud. free 
7:30 p.m.--meeting, psychology society, old biology bldg., free 
8:00 p.m.-recital and lecture, greg david in little theatre, moreau hall, free. 




NICKlE'S 
For Lunch Brunch 

Now Featuring CHICKEN DINNERS: lh Chicken, French Fries, Roll &: Butter And A Draft For $2.50 6oz. Steak, Fries, Roll, 
Mug of Beer/$3.00 
ALSO SERVING HAMBURGER PLATTERS 
Thursday Night Ladies Night: WINE COOLERS: 2Sc 
Church boycott advocated 
NEW YORK UPI-Birth control advocate William Baird called Wednesday for an economic boycott of the Roman Catholic Church because of its refusal to baptize a baby whose mother 
supported  "free  choice"  on  
abortion  and because  of  
disciplinary  action  against  the  
priest  who  finally  baptized  the  

infant. 
Baird, director of the Parents Aid Society, an abortion clinic in Hempstead, N. Y., held a news conference on the steps of St. Patrick's Cathedral with the baby's mother, Carol Morreale of Marlboro, Mass. 
"The Pope and the Cardinal Boston Cardinal Humberto Medeiros have committed a crime in utter violation of the teachings of Christ, which are love, com­passion and mercy," he said. 
Baird said Marlboro priests refused to baptize Nathaniel Ryan Morreale after his mother was quoted as saying she supported Baird when he arrived in Marlboro to to address the Town Council about opening an abortion clinic. 
"We are calling for a national economic boycott of Roman Catholic churches," Baird said. "In mail we are getting from around the nation, people are saying that the church is dead wrong to have penalized this family. 
"If people would boycott the church economically, since the church understands clearly what money is all about, it would force them to reconsider their punish­ment." 
Baird also said he had offered "to give the baptism back," saying he and Mrs. Morreale would "publicly baptize the baby our-
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

selves" if the church would agree not been announced because to reinstate O'Rourke. confirmation had not been received from Pedro Arrupe, 
Baird said the Rev. Joseph superior general of the Jesuits in O'Rourke, a Jesuit from New York Rome. who performed the baptism, was 
Officials of the Catholic Ar­"defrocked this morning on the chdiocese could not be reached for orders of the Pope for performing comment. But a spokesman forthe baptism." 
the Jesuit order said, "The issue is 

The Boston Globe reported not defrocking him. At issue is Wednesday that the Rev. O'Rourke whether he remains in the Society had been dsimissed from the of Jesus, not if he is to be removed Society of Jesus for performing the from the priesthood. I don't know baptism, but that the action had the answer to that." 
CALL THE RIGHT PLAY EVERY TIME 
IT COMES TO EATING OUT 


JuuitRestaurant 
and GARDEN PATIO 
512 S. Spring St. Mishawaka Ph. 255~0518 
You can score hiK ll'ith home made Ita/ian j(wds: 5itea/..s, Chops, Chicken Be.fim• or aj/er the game. 
... or any! ime you're lumg1:1' 
rs,irf~ri'OR"*"'"P'rCWNo/i,,C,.,,,i 
Saturday, Sept. 7th 
SMC Dining Hall field 4:00pm-10:00 
hot dogs and 



fR££ s££R 
:~~~: music by. WIND j~j~ ~\\~ 21 I.D. Required !~~~ 
~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::;:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=::::::::::::~:: 


THURS., FRI., SAT. 
AT 6, 8, 10, 12 midnight Adm. $1.00 Kof cMEMBERS FREE 
••• , • '' •• ''' ... ~> ''.'.' .. fir I ••• t ._. 
---------. 
3

Thursday, Sept~mber 5, cu.4 the observer 
~~· 

Ehrlichman seeks Nixon files 
WASHINGTON UPI -John D. House has asked Attorney General -All his personal papers relating to case and sentenced to from 20 .Ea~lier Wednesday, U.S. William B. Saxbe for a formal the watergate burglary ana the months to 5 years in prison. He is D1str1ct Judge John J. Sirica or­
Ehrlichman, who already has 
intelligence-gathering operation at appealing. dered prosecutors and defensesubpoenaed former President opinion. 
teh Nixon campaign that led to it, He succeeded· in stalling that lawyers in the cover-up case toRichard Nixon to testify at the Ehrbchman demanded that the activities of political saboteur trial briefly by subpoenaing vast give him names of witnesses theyWatergate cover-up trial, now has Knight come to court and bring Donald H. Segretti, the in­amounts of White House materials, plan to call no later than Sep­subpoenaed the Secret Service to with him vast numbers of papers vestigation of the "Watergate many of whi,.h were ruled tember 23.
surrender hundreds of Nixon-era from the period of June 17, 1972 affa1r" and Nixon's taped con­documents still locked in White through May 1 , 1973. versations about it.
House vaults, it was disclosed Wednesday. 
June 17 was the day five men Also subpoenaed tor the sameThe subpoena, issued Aug. 29 wen: arrested with bugging gear period were all telephone andand made public late Wednesday, at the Watergate offices of the appointment logs of Nixon,orders that the papers be delivered Democratic National committee Haldeman and Ehrlichman andin federal court at 10 a.m. EDT on and ~ay 1 ,1~73, was the day "any and all records of any paperSeptember 16. 
followmg a maJor upheaval in the person maintained at the WhiteIt is addressed to H. S. Knight, White House staff in the wake of House which refer to or relate todirector of the United States Secret scandal-including the resignations the "Watergate matter."
Service, "as custodian of of Ehrlichman and H. R. Ehrlichman has waged a sofarpresidential papers White House Haldeman and the firing of John unsuccessful battle to postpone the files." 
W. Dean III. cover-up trial at least untilThough court records indicated January. His last-ditch appeal isthe subpoena has not yet been now being considered by Supremeserved, a spokesman for the Secret For that period , Ehrlichman Court Justic William 0. Douglas.
Service said it was received asked for: Wednesday afternoon. -His notes of meetings with Nixon, 
Once Nixon's No. 2 aide,
Although the Secret Service is in "which are stored in reddish­Ehrlichman was convicted thischarge of safe-keeping of Nixon's brown binders." 
summer for conspiracy andtapes and files, it is unclear who -A chronological file of his perjury in the Ellsberg break-inhas legal custody and the White correspondence. 
Congress examines finances 
Investigation started 
WASHINGTON UP I Chairman He said the financial ac­'I cannot conceive of us Howard Cannon of the Senate counting'obviously doesn't reflect recessing and leaving this up in Rules Committee raised the a lot of the trusts or the full extent mid-air,'he said. 
possibility Wednesday that vice of the Rockefeller fortune .. FBI agents already have 
completed much of their in­presidential nominee Nelson A. 
Cannon predicted Congress 

vestigation of Rockefeller, Cannon Rockefeller may not be forced to 
would act on Rockefellers's con­
said. He said he would meetplace any of his extensive holdings firmation before it adjourns in Thursday with the agents toon the market or in a blind trust. 
mid-October. 
discuss their ;;,.. 
'The vice president is not in a policy-making position like the defense secretary and I don't 
TALISMAN
?elieve he has ever been required m the past to divest himself of any F o r m ·e r 1y T h e M a rk B 1 o o m B a n 
holdings,' said the Nevada Democrat. and The Crow Brothers Band 
' But of course with a man like this you have a special case and it will be up to the committee to 
NOW AVAILABLE FOR DANCES. 
decide how far we go-do we require disclosure, a blind trust CONCERTS, PARTIES, AND 
or require divestiture?' After studying a complete PRE-GAME PE RMANCES 
summary of Rockefeller's finances-including seven years of During Sept., Oct., & Nov. 
income tax returns-Cannon told reporters his committee would Call-272-9895 meet next week to decide procedural matters related to the 
For Bookings & Information
Rockefeller confirmation hearings. 
Cannon said one matter that irrelevant by the court. 

FREE OUTDOOR MOVIE 
W.C. Fields -lVbe West with Road Rmmer & Pink Panther 
Sat. Sept 7 9:00 P.M. OLaughlin Courtyard 
Bring Your Blanket, etc. 
Sunshine Promotions Presents 


Van Morrison 

and Special Guest 
Dave Loggins 
Sunday Sept. 15-7:30P.M. 
Athletic and 

Convocation Center





NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices: 
Tickets On Sale:

Bleachers ............$4.80 Lower Arena ••..••••. S500 
Gate 10 Ticket Office, Student 
Union Ticket Office (3rd Floor Platform ............ $&00

Loge---------------SUG 
Lafortune), Robertson's, St. Joe 
Bank & Branches, First Bank Downtown, Elkhart Truth. 
Floor Seats .......... $&00 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Van Morrison. Send to Van Morrison Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 
might be decided during the procedural session was whether Rockefeller, amultimillionaire, 
Student Union Presents would be required to place his extensive holdings in a blind trust or to sell some of them in order to win confirmation to the nation's second-highest office. 
' I don't know what we will 
JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTARdecide,' he said. 'We might decide that just disclosure would be enough.' 
A committee spokesman said 
starring Ted NeeleyRockefeller has provided the summary of his finances and the voluminous tax returns to the Senate Rules and House Judiciary Committees, the two congressional bodies which will act on his 
Film's First Total Rock Musical 
nomination as vice president. 
Committee sources refused to disclose Rockefeller's net worth, saying the records would be given 


Sept. 6 and 7
only to members of the two committees. But a Rockefeller spokesman said earlier that a single year's tax return for Rockefeller was about the size of a 
7, 9, 11 P.M. WASHINGTON HALL
small city telephone book. 
Cannon also refused to disclose the amount of .. Rockefeller's net worth, but said with a smile, 'I 
Admission · $1.00
knew he was ·~ wealthy man, and ...____________________..._________________.... 
he is a wealthy man.' · 
been drinking, also involves those 
who are responsible for the within their oorders, I could Watching students swarm down observance of the crowd-control that at the spring meeting of the minor's behavior. quench it at age eighteen. A Notre Dame Ave. last weekend and procedures and their orderly Alumni Board of Directors, a journey across the state line seeing drivers speeding in their conduct enabled us to process over resolution was passed requestiing 
Because most of. the stu?ents seemed like a reasonable ex-cars. I fear that someone is going 9,000 ticket exchanges with a information concerning the legalh~re are under age, m compliance change for a few beers with the to be injured seriously, perhaps minimum of confusion and implications of the bar to the With the law, _we are no longer guys--until my parents found out. fatally. Some night a car won't problems. Alumni Association in light of the a!lowed to drmk. on campus. To them, drinking and diiving was make it all the way down Rt. 31. new Indiana ruling of the Brattain 
Simple. We now dnnk ?ff-campus. very foolish. They were respon-Neither will its passengers. I will certai~ly _appreciate this Case. This summer was spentThe mass exodus this weekend sible for me and said if I wanted a same cooperation m the future. working with the Alumni down Notre Dame Ave. to the lo~al beer, to 'take it' from the I'm not suggesting that the Association in junction with the bars and apartment parties refrigerator. In other words, if I University ignore the Indiana law University attorneys to arrive, at
Yours sincerely,

showed .. that ND st~~ents are wanted to drink, then drink at and allow us to drink in our dorms, this legal decision. That legal
Donald E. Bouffard, Jr.

hardly on the wagon. home. again. Heaven forbid. Just help us decision has come down in the last
Ticket Manager

to change it. As students, it has few days. With this decision theLegally, this may be acceptable . . 
become painfully obvious that few Office of Student Affairs has ex­to the University. They cannot be Given a chmce, they would 
people listen to us, but as t1 pressed an interest in theheld accountable for student r.a~her have me stagger from the 
University of Notre Damt management of the Alumni Club.
drinking off-campus. Someone hvmg room to my bedroom, than Senior class
somebody might. In light of Brother Just's statement
else, perhaps the owner of a bar or from New York back _home. to a student who served an underage Jersey. When anyone IS seemg officers: to that there are no plans to close the friend some beer at his art double, a flight of stairs is much I am not too sure how much pull Alumni Club, its status looks would then be responsible f!, a;y easier to negotiate, than a dark Fr· Hesburgh has in Indianapolis 
favorable. At present we are mishaps stretch of highway. I doubt if the <I often_ read about him in the New do everything establishing guidelines for the · thought of us walking to the dorm york T~mes), but I am certain his operation of the Alumni Club which 
In my home state of New Jersey, after a night of drinki~g _at Louie's, IS a voice th~t would be heard.in possible to will be reviewed by the! I became thirsty before I became or worse yet, dnvmg from the State CapitoL Perhaps a br1ef . Student Affairs staff. We have legal. Fortunately, New York Kubiak's back to campus is a lette_r from ou! university 1nsure a bar done, and will continue to do sympathized with my thirst and reassuring one for our parents. President to the Governor, now, everything possible to insure the 
. . • may save him the entire ND reopening of the Club.
reopening Signed,
· -.nllllllllllllll-111111•11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 co':flmunity the pain of having to wnte one later, to the grieving The Senior Class Officers parents of one of our students who
DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
never made it back from a good time.
Copr ·~., G<n'l F<atur<< Corp In response to Tom Drape's 
ACROSS 48 Perfumes beverages J. Patrick Boyle September 4.th editorial entitled 1 Carry away 51 Astringent 23 Actress Coral "Seniors Barred", we feel the need 8 Musical 55 Removable 24 Magistrate of old to respond to the reasons and 
in11truments handle for kitch-Venice 
implications listed for the
15 Ended en use 25 Rock suspension of the Alumni Club
16 Girl's name 56 Diego or Juan 26 Clergyman on 17 S,,.. 11ll pastry 59 Face to face the staff of a Bouffard:: commonly referred to as the Th1• Obsrrvu welcomes all 
sh~ll with: Fr. phrase cathedral Senior Bar. He stated the Bar's commrnts and opinions submitted iB Harmonious 61 Issue forth 27 Negative verbal thankfu I for opening was suspended because of in th1• fm·m of letters. relation 63 Exaggerate, in a contraction "mixed feelings among alumni on t\lllt'ttei·s should be submitted to 19 Dr'lft initials way 30 Shafted weapons cooperation their involvement, the absence of Tlw Obst'rvrr. Box Q, Notre Damt', 
:!0 T~eatergoers' 64 Captured again 31 Special 
an Executive Director of the Indiana. -tflli5fi or brought to Theneed (i5 Lies close and ski II Alumni Association", plus, "the Obst'r\'l'r offict's in thl' south wing
22 F' .11' with wonder snug 32 -Ia vista 
2~ ;ur.omoned by a 66 Falling in flakes 33 Vapor Dear Editor: lack of an assumption of respon­on thl' :lrd floor of LaFortunt> gest.t!re DOWN 38 Point on the Isle I want to take this opportunity to sibility by the Alumni Club and the Studt'nt ('rnter. They must be 25 Protruding rock of Man thank the entire Notre Dame and Senior Class Officers". This in­typ1•writtt>n. doublt>-spaced and 
28 That one: Lat. 1 Flying mammals 39 Advocates of St. Mary's student bodies for their formation is incorrect. We have signt>d. Namt's will bt> withheld on 2!:1 S··-earwords 2 Ancient Greek harmony cooperation during last week's been working with the Alumni l'('!Jill'St, hOWt'Vl'r. 
:~4 Tropical plant City 41 Stops 
35 Rocial functions 3 Charitable gifts 42 Hebrew letter: student football ticket issue. Their Association ever since we spon­Tlw Obst'rvt'r rt'St'l'Vl'S tht> right 4 Roy of Scotland Var. to 1•dit lt>tters wht>n spatial
3G Old English sil-111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 sored Junior Night at the Alumni ver coin 5 Egg-shaped 43 Coiners Club last spring. We were notified limitations dt>l'lll necessary. 
37 Traffic directive 6 Happiness 49 Cut, as cake 
L1•ngth of lt>tters art' asked to be no 
~!) Read 7 Mark on the skin 50 Euterpe's sister 
staff box mm·t' thantwo pages.
40 Refrain word in 8 Peaceful ex-51 River in England old <;ongs panses: Poet 52 Type of telecast 
Night Editor: Mike Strickroth
41 J ddith Anderson, 9 Chatter 53 Partakes of 
for one 10 Small devil 54 Emporium Ass't. Night Editor: Andy 44 F~•ght: Prefix 11 East Indian palm 56 H. H. Munro Praschak 45 Come in tree 57 Solar disk Layout: Don Longano, Mary
46 W~it-known pen 12 Enough: Dial. 58 Part of the U. S. 
Reher, Martha Fanning, John
n;•m<' 13 Grow weary 60 Kind of lace, for 
Seller berg, Karl Weinfurtner,
4 7 Louri :;ound: 14 Drama decors short Slang 21 Ingredient of 62 Slangy negative Tom Tharias, Joe Kanabrocki Day Editor: Greg Bangs 
Copy Reader: Pat Hanifin Editorials: Ann McCarry Sports: Greg Corgan, Pete d 
McHugh 
a
Typists: Tom Modglin, Mary Tobin, Michelle Arrieh, Jim a Landis 
•n· 
Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Night Controllers: Howard Halle & Tim Murphy s 
b 
ASK IS T!fATMIATIIIlTH r;r
u 
THE A6NW/NOPENT; Til£ ARt YOU KIPP!NG?!r AMERICAN PEOPt£ IUANT 
I'M IWRTH OVER fOUR
TO BE REASSt/R£0 THAT

y BtU/ON IJOUAR5/
711£ NEW VICEPR£51/JtNT ISN'T IN IT JtJST 
f TH/lNK
? FOR THE 
_;>YOU, SIR.
MONEY. 





-~------~------------~ -~--~--­
Thursday, September 5, 1974 the observer 
Hitchhiking is a dead end road 
by David Smothers 
UPI Senior Editor 

The girl standing on the shoulder of the road may be thumbing her way to rape or even death. 
In many areas--particularly around college towns-hitchhiking by girls is almost the in thing to do. It is a cheap way to get around. For pretty girls, it's easy. Itcan be scary, but for perhaps that reason it can also be exciting. 
Sure, bad things can happen, the reasoning seems to go. But it won't happen to me. 
Maybe not. But "hitchhiking is the major avenue to rape now," according to Ralph Page, a spokesman for the Dade Country, Fla. sheriff's office. Too often, he said, officers "wind up with the end results of hitchhiking, which frequently is a girl in a field somewhere, beaten, sexually molested, and sometimes dead." 
Last year, Edmund Kemper III was convicted of killing six coeds he had picked up in the Santa Cruz, Calif., area. Kemper, now under a life sentence, was not only a necrophiliac but used the decapitated head of one victime for dart practice and kept another in his closet so he could talk to it. 
In Boston, a city crowded with college students, the sight of girl hitchhikers is common. Police figure seven of them have been killed in the last year or so. 
Two West Virginia coeds left their dormitory Jan. 18, 1970, saying they were going to a movie and would thumb their way back. Their headless bodies were found 10 miles south of Morgantown, W. Va., four months later. 
In the late '60s, five coeds and 
two  other  young  women  were  
killed  around  or  between  the  
campuses  of  the  University  of  

Michigan and Eastern Michigan University, seven miles apari. 
Hitchhiking was practically a way 
of life at the two schools. Police 
couldn't be sure, but said most oi 
the victims appeared to be ride 
hitchers. 
In July, 1973, a 15-year-old girl 
and her 16-year old boy friend were 
hitchhiking in Fort Lauderdale, 
Fla. They got a ride from Alfred 
Brust, who drove them to his 
home. There he decapitated the 
boy, chained the girl to a wall, and 
subjected her to repeated sexual 
and sadistic attacks for 22 hours 
before releasing her. When police 
came to get Brust, they found him 
lying in a lawn chair, dead of a 
dose of strychnine. 
The New Jersey slayings scared 
off many girls from taking the 
thumb route to where they want to 
go--as a particuarly sensational 
tragedy is likely to do for a while. 
But not all. 
"I've been nervous a couple of 
times," Delia Marshall, 14, South 
Orange, N.J., said. "When you 
hitch, the driver usually looks you 
up and down and that makes me 
nervous. I'm going to keep right on 
hitchhiking, though. It's the only 
way to get where I'm going." 
A friend said, "Sure, the deaths 
scare me, but I'm as careful as you 
can be. I'm not a weakling and I always sit by the door. I know what can happen. It's just a risk I take." 
Sgt. John Flanagan of the Pitt­
sburgh, Pa., Youth Squad said, "I 
have found in at least two 
situations--where girls who have 
been victims of rape at tht! hands 
of a guy who gives them a lift--that 
those girls continued to hitch. I 
think it's a fad, a matter of peer 
pressure and peer fad~o what the 
other kids do." 
Dr. John Burkett, dean of 
students at Boston University, said students feel, "Well, these sort of things happen, but never to me. 
They feel  it  1s  their  inalienable  
right to hitchhike."  
The  Bill  Devine  family  in  

Seattle, Wash., tried after Katherine Merry Devine, 14, went nitching last Nov. 26. She was found, her throat cut, Dec. 6 in a campground near Olympia, Wash. 
The Devines started a campaign to repeal a new state law allowing hitchhiking except on interstate highways. They got 80,000 signatures on their petition. They needed 118,000 to get the issue on the ballot. Mrs. Devine said Katherine would never have hit­died a ride if it had been illegal. 
Hitchhiking is illegal, in a very limited, degree, in many states. Probhitions generally apply to interstate highways and tollroads. In some states there are also prohibitions against stepping into the road to solicit a ride. 
Hitchers don't appear to pay much attention to whatever laws there are and, police confess they often can't do much about it. 
Tom Lyons, spokesman for the Pennsylvania State Police outlined the problem there: "Hitching is outlawed in Pennsylvania and it isn't," he said. "A person may not solicit a ride from the travel portion of a highway. It's not too hard to figure out that you can hitchhike from the shoulder of the road. Very few are ever arrested." 
Instead, many officers try to head off trouble by picking up the hitchers themselves. 
In Florida's Dade County, Page said, "Our men often see young people--especially girls-­hitchhiking and give them bus fare or cab fare out of their own pockets." A spokesman for the Cook County, Ill., Chicago sheriff's 
Seven indicted in Texas 
HUNTSVILLE, Tex. UPI-A Walker County grand jury Wed­nesday indicted seven persons, including would-be escapee Ignacio Cuevas, on capital murder charges in connection with the attempted breakout of three in­mates from the Huntsville State Penitentiary and the shooting death of a woman hostage. 
Ignacio Cuevas, 45, the only inmate to survive a shootout with officers in the aborted escape plot, was charged with killing Julia Standley, 43, one of two hostages shot to death. Inmate Fred Gomex Carrasco, and Rudolfo Dominguez also died in the Aug. 3 shooting in the prison courtyard. 
Among those indicted for aiding the escape attempt were four current inmates of the prison, Lawrence J. Hall, a trusty, Fred "Liko" Perales, Adolpha "Shorty" Alonzo, and Pedro Alonzo. 
Benito Alonzo, a parolee, was arrested and returned to prison Friday. George Cisneros, the seventh person indicted, was at large. 
"They were indicted for capital murder, involving the supply of guns," a Walker County district attorney's office spokesman said. "Acting as parties to Carrasco, Dominguez, and Cuevas while they attempted to escape, they caused the death of Julia Standley." 
District Attorney Jerry Sandel said Tuesday that Hall, serving a life sentence .as an habitual criminal, smuggled three pistols into the prison and gave them to other convicts who in turn passed them to Carrasco. 
Sandel said Hall agreed to smuggle the guns in exchange for money. 
"Hall was given a small amount of money and was told that his wife would get additional cash," Sandel said. "The total amount came to less than $2,000, but he decided to take the risk. Now, as a result, he faces a murder charge which could bring the death penalty." 
The district attorney said Hall worked in the home of an assistant prison director, and made numerous trips to and from the prison. 
"This gave him a chance to smuggle the three pistols and a supply of ammunition to the other convicts who were m a position to deliver them to Carrasco." 
The prison siege ended Aug. 3, after the inmates held 12 hostages in the prison library for 11 days. 
Also killed in the shootout was Elizabeth Beseda, a Huntsville teacher. 

1723 SOUTH BEND AVE 272-9800 10% DISCOUNT BY THE CASE 
N.D. : When Visiting Atlanta, Make Rambling Wrecks Of Georgia Tech! 

JIM-'63 CHUCK-'65 PROPRIETORS 
----------------------------------------------~~-­
office said, "Usually, when we see them hitchhiking, we take them directly to their parents." 
Leslie Durante is an attractive 21-year-old who works as a cocktail waitress in Philadelphia. In her teens, she was a regular hitcher. No more. 
"I'm scared to death of it," she said. "I guess it's because I'm getting older and I'm not as brazen any more. 
"It was exciting because you 
1 always wondered who you were going to meet. You can gain a lot of knowledge out of it if you're picked up by the right people." 


One, she said, she dated for five months afterwards. Another said, "You have very nice breasts" as 
he  grabbed  one  of  them.  She  
managed  to get  out  at  the  next  
corner.  

"I always carried some kind of weapon, usually a little knife, when I hitchhiked," she said, a "and I always lit a cigarette when I got in a car. A friend of mine told me to stick it right in somebody's face if they tried anything. 
"Thank goodness I'm still alive to tell you all about this." 
Soulb f&tnd mribunt 
• • . The newspaper you can count on! 
f-------Grder Your Tribune Now-------, Gentlemen: li 
Please deliver The Tribune for the ENTIRE fall I semester to my door. My check for $12.00 is enclosed 1 or $24.00 lor the entire school year. I 
I

Narne __________ ·___________________ _ 
Hall ___________  Room No.  __________ _  I! 1:  
Send coupon and $12.00 or $24.00 check to:  
The South Bend Tribune, Circulation Dept.  
225 W. Colfax Ave., South Bend, Indiana 46626  

-----------·-------=~=-:""-=~=---' 
SENIORS 
SENIOR PICIURES WILL BE TAKEN: Sept. 9-13 9a.m.-l p.m. and 2p.m.-6 p.m. 
Sign-ups In The Dining H ails Thurs. 
or Call 7 258 between 1 & 9 p.m. 


~-----~ ~­
Thursday, September 5, 1974
6 the observer 

Senior oHicers meet with administration 
Student Affairs debates Senior Bar 
by Andy Praschak Starr Reporter 

The Office of Student Mfairs is ~enerally in favor of reopening the 5enior Bar, Father Dave Schlaver, director of Student Activities said 

Fr. Schlaver: l<"oresees possible solution for Senior Bar. 
Pre-Law 
by Doug Meyers Starr Reporter 

A new program allowing un­' undergraduates to sit in on law school classes highlighted the first meeting of the year for the Pre­Law Society last night in the library auditorium. 
This is the first of some new programs that will let members see the law school in action and it today. "I have a tremendous amount of confidence in Greg Ericksen and the other senior class officers," commented Schlaver when asked about a possible coalition management between senior class officers and the Office of Student Affairs. 
Schlaver, however foresaw many complications that must be worked out before the Senior Bar can be reinstated. 
The Senior Bar, originally founded as a meeting place for students, faculty, and alumni, has gradually become entirely student oriented. Schlaver cited this as the main reason for the negative at­titude the Alumni Association has expressed toward the bar's reopening. 
He added that many legal arrangements must also be worked out before the bar can 
bereestablished. A concentrated effort must also be made to insure that all the patrons of the' bar have reached the legal Indiana drinking age of 21. 
Society 
marks the first time the society and law school have worked together on such a project. 
Speakers at last night's meeting included Rom Demeo, president of the Society, Dean . _Waddick, faculty advisor , Dean Faccio, Prf. Houck, and Chauncy Veek, president of the Student Bar Association. One Topic discussed was the deadline for taking. the LSAT, during this October. All law students planning to take the test 

Schlaver said that if Student Affairs accepted responsibility of the bar, more insurance would have to be purchased on the establishment, than in the past. Also, the Office of Student Mfairs must look into the licensing of the bar before it can be opened, ac­cording to Schlaver. 
Schlaver said that until all of these problems have been researched and resolved, it would be impossible for his office to make a definite statement concerning the Office of Student Mfairs's role in the reopening of the institution. 
Schlaver and other university officials have scheduled a tour of the building containing the Senior Bar, in order to decide upon any necessary remodeling. 
Greg Ericksen senior class president, also expressed con­fidence that "the Alumni Club" .(Senior Bar) will be reopened under the joint management of senior class officers and the Office of Student Affairs." When asked what work has been done so far on the reopening of the bar, Ericksen 
meets 

this October must register by October 12. 
Every year the Pre-Law Society invites deans of other law schools to visit the Notre Dame Campus. They also arrange interviews with students for them These interviews will occur in the next few months. 
Anyone who did not make the meeting and would like to. join the society can contact either Dean 
Waddick or Tom Demeo. 
said, "We have been working with the Alumni Association on legal aspects of the situation throughout the summer." 
Ericksen agreed with Schlaver that many problems have to be worked out before the bar can become a positive part of the Notre Dame community. 
Joe Henderlong, senior class treasurer, and Chris Fenn, senior Class secretary, said that one of the main concerns was with changing the image of the Senior Bar. "It must be able to offer constructive social interaction as well as a place for seniors to drink," interjected Fenn. 
The officers felt that it had been abused in the past and are presently preparing a list of concrete suggestions that they feel are necessary in renovating the Senior Bar and its image . 
"Student managers and hired staff are the most important considerations when attempting to enhance the image of the Senior 
Ericksen concluded that "We as a class have proved that we are responsible enough to work together with the Office of Student Mfairs to make the Alumni Club a place where students, faculty, and alumni can gather together for any social activity." 


Greg Ericksen: Hopeful that the 

OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
who did not leave their phone numbers with us at Registration, but are interested •1n being listed in the University Directory, please leave your Name, Address, 1.0. Number and ·Phone Number at the Student Government Offices, 2nd floor Lafortune 
or Call 283-7668 Before Friday At 5 P.M. 
I I -, 
t I 
I # I • I I I • I • f I I · I I I I ~ ~ ~ I • ' . I t I ' • • · 
Rocky reports to Congress 
by Clay F. Richards WASHINGTON <UPD-Nelson 
A. Rockefeller has turned over a complete financial summary of his holdings, including seven years of income tax returns, to the two congressional committees which will act on his nomination as vice­president, a committee spokesman said Wednesday. 
Committee sources refused to reveal Rockefeller's net worth, and said the records would be given only to the members of the Senate Rules and House Judiciary Committee. 
A spokesman for the Rules Committee said no timetable has been set for public hearings on the Rockefeller nomination. 
"That will depend on how long the FBI and other investigations take," he said. 
When Gerald R. Ford was nominated as vice-president, the three-week FBI investigation involved 350 agents who took 1000 interviews and filed a 1700 page confidential report. 
In addition to the financial data received from Rockefeller, the committees have asked the Joint Tax Committee to review the original tax returns on file with the Internal Revenue Service, the spokesman said. 
This is the same committee 
which studied the tax returns of 
President Nixon and concluded he 
owed more than $400,000 in back 
taxes. 
Special congressional in­vestigators have been assigned to 
SLCreaction to Macheca 

~ 

"We'll push for a new rule on penalties," he said. 
All the SLC members said that student proposals will be taken into account before a definite course of action is decided upon. 
Macheca said his authority to impose penalties was "completely within my power as Dean of Students." 
"However, it is not a hard and fast rule and wasn't meant to be. I'm trying to let people have some iea of what they can expect if they break a rule. It's not just a lot of lip service." 
Macheca said that a $50 fine · would not be the usual penalty for violations of the alcohol rules. He said minor violations would be handled by the hall staff or rector. 
"If a serious violation of the alcohol rules occured, or if repeated incidents of violations were evident, the maximum fine 
would  be  considered,"  Macheca  
said.  
The  Dean  made  it clear  that  

discretion was important in all cases involving the imposition of penalties. 
He said that any case serious enough to come before him or a University Board would be looked at with descretion, and the penalty decided upon accordingly. 
Macheca stressed the im­portance of studen attitude stating that "attitude is the real key. The students must care." 
The dean denied that he had overlooked a responsibility to consult the SLC. "The hall staffs had to know how to deal with it for the first few weeks of school," Macheca said. 
Macheca also said that the new rules were not hard and fast ones that he tried to implement witout consulting the SLC, but were just intended to let the students know whaUbey can look for. 
the Rockefeller case, the than requested. He also turned spokesman said. He added that over I!ecords of his New York State both Special Watergate Prosecutor and New York City taxes. Leon Jaworski and Chairman Sam A Rockefeller spokeSman said Ervin of the Senate Watergate earlier that Rockefeller's annual committee have been asked if their tax return was about the size of a investigations have turned up small city telephone book. When anything related to Rockefeller. he was governor of New York, 
Rockefeller gave the committee Rockefeller said he paid an annual his federal income tax returns for income tax "in seven figures." the years 1967-73. one year more 
White Sox trip slated 
Tickets will be available at the
by John Corrao 

Student Union Ticket Office and
Staff Reporter 

the Dining Halls. Buses will leave 
from the the circle at 10:00 A.M. on 
the morniing of the game and will The Student Union Social return sometime early in theCommission is sponsoring a bus evening.
trip to see the Chicago White Sox Future trips to Chicago may betake on the California Angels on offered if there is sufficientSunday, Sept. 15 at Comiskey Park student interest. For further in­in Chicago. Cost for the trip is formation, Contact Rick Guiltman $9.00, which includes reserved at Student Union, 7757.
seats and round trip bus fare. 
SMC goals outlined 
..... 
ward Campanale was named to the position of Co­ordinator of Undergraduate Education of both schools. A tuition exchange program, whereby children of full-time faculty members may chose which of the two schools they with to attend, free of charge was approved. A new Women's Council has been established to improve relationships among women students at ND and SMC. 
"Ifyou look at many colleges and Catholic institutions," the Acting President commented, "you will see that St. Mary's is clearly in a minority as far. as enrollment trends are concerned." 
Enrollment at SMC is up more than 11 per cent over last year, he explained, with 1646 students registered 
This year's freshman class with 534 members, is the largest in the history ·of the school. There is a corresponding increase of 13 per cent in full-time faculty, thus raising the total to 100, while there are currently 40 part-time faculty members, which include members of the administration who also teach, he noted. 
Hickey stated that the length of his term as acting president depends upon when a permanent president can be selected and approved by the Board of Regents. Most candidates being considered for the position by the search committee are presently in administrative positions at other institutions, he ·said. Therefore, the earliest that a new president can take over would be January 1, or more probably, he said, June 1. 

J'to 
~,,.~ 

Live Music by TALISMAN 
(formerly Mark Bloom Band ) no cover charge 
Thursday, September 5, 1974 the observer 
7 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

2 Season football tickets for sale. Call Peter 233-2658. 
4 Dynaco 835 spkrs. l yr. old. List .$120 each. Call 232-8749, Mike. 
1967 Chev. Biscayne Sedan. $125.00 or best offer. 
Economical around-the-town transportation. Call 292-58448. 
Used furniture for sale. Call Stanley 287-0318. 
For Sale: Couch $20, single bed $18, small chest of drawers $10, 2 comfortable chairs $2 + $5. 289-3369. 
'66 vw Bug. Runs well. $300 or best offer. Call Mike 287-3463 after 6 p.m. 
For Sale: 1974 Kawasaki 250, only 1000 miles. Must sell. Call 6839. 
NOTICES 

Stamp Collectors: Anyone interested in trading stamps call Jim at 8625 or 8627. 
The Sun. additions of the New York Times andnWashington Post at Pandoras Books on Sun. 
Get your copy the day it is meant to be read. 602 North St. Louis Blvd. South Bend. 
Handmade Indian turquoise jewelry from the Southwest. Rings, br;~c;elets, earings and 
accessories,  ;~II  very  
reasonably  priced.  287-0076  
after 7.  

Management Club sign.ups Thurs. and Friday noon in Hayes-Healy. Activities in­clude seminars and smokers. 
24 hr. TV repair--Color TVs $60 and up. 282-1955. 
ND-SMC Council for the Retarded Logan Center. Organizational meeting Thurs. Sept. 5th, 7:30 p.m. Library Aud. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: gold-wire rim glasses in black snap-closing case. Contact Pat 8623. Important. 
Large Reward: For the return or information concerning the location of my bicycle. A red 10-speed Fuji. Leather seat, Suntour derailleur. Taken from 2nd floor GraceTues. nite 
or  early  Wed.  morning.  
Reward  will  be  P<lid.  ·  No  
questions asked.  Steve  1859.  

Found--Contact lenses, with case, near NOH. Call Tom 8537. 
Lost: Note books and slide rule (British Thornton) from South Dining Hall. Call Seshadri 6320, 7469. 
Lost: 1pair of contact lenses in white plastic case between North Dining Hall and BP. Please call Nancy 1272. 
Lost: 3 keys or brown leather case. Call 289-3408. Thanx. 
Lost: 1 make up bag. Gray paisley canvas with red leather binding. Initials N.M.S. Reward $20. Call 6294. 
FOR RENT 

House available prime S.E. area. 2 Br. furnished all utilities and cable for 3 students. 287-7818. 
Attention off-campus renters: 3 Br. house, 825 Bryan St. 
Behind St. Mary's College. Available Sept. 6. can take 4 students. 287-7818. 
Rent: 2 singles, $55 mo. 1 blk. from store, laundry. Demande Ave. Call 232-2773. 
House for Rent: 1136 E. Sorin. 2 Br., LR, DR, S. Porch, Part. Furn. Jim Licata 289-7811, 287­8282. 
One room for rent. NO students, $50 per month. Call 288-9533 or 232-9311. 
WANTED 

Need 4 Miami GA tickets. Also tickets for any other home game. Chuck 1592. 
Help! Need 2 GA tickets for Purdue game. Call Ellen 1348. 
Elvis Presley Concert tickets for trade. We have 2 tickets first row--main floor. Oct. 
show.  Will trade for 2 tickets  
Rows  1-10  main  floor  Sept.  
show.  Call 288-8435 or 234-7316.  

Wanted: Roommate to share 2 bedroom apt. at Turtle Creek. 272-1239. 
Help Wanted: 20-30 hrs. Must have car. Pandora's Books. We're FRIENDLY PEOPLE. 233-2342. 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
South Bend. 
Need ride to Georgia Tech. Call 8163, Sue. 
1 or 2 GA or Faculty tickets for Purdue and Army games. 234· 1672. 
Need student or GA tickets for Purdue. Call Paul 8923. 
Need 2 G.A. tickets for Purdue. Please call Dave 3458. 
Needed: Assistant debate coach; law or grad student. 
Call John Borkowski at 2182 or 3700. 
Wanted to buy: Girls used bike. Please call 234-7616. 
Exchange 2 $10 bleacher tickets for 2 Section B or C. Will pay $50 a tickets with exchange. Joanne or Sandy 287-9114. 
Purdue GA tickets wanted. Please call Mary at 283-7953. 
Part.Time Babysitter needed for two small children two or three days per week. Own transportation must be provided. Phone 283-6619 or 288-9892. 
Wanted: Green or blue rug. 8112 x 11'1>. Call Mary at 283· 7953. 
Needed desperately: 4 GPA 
Purdue tickets. Call Karen 5140. 
PERSONALS To: MOD. We made it!! JOB. 
Did you know that George Washington threw a frisbee across the Potomic? 
Happy Birthday Doug! From one of King's magical mystical marching dynasty. 
Tom Klein, Why do you think Professor Williamson's In­termediate Accounting class is so jock? 
After a hard ..7,ight's studying 
*LO 
*PIZZAS *BEER 
I S 


IE'S BAR* 
*SANDV\40-IES *VVINE 
Come down-or a study break­.Y~U won't regret it I 
. .. 

~ 
~ 
j 
j 
I 
1 



---------~-----­
~8_ _...!.t1!hl..3e..____,o.._.b...,s....,e......__r__..y_,.e,_,r,____T_h_ur__s_d_ay_._s_e_pte_m_be_r_s~974 
I

Tech tests ND' s I new I secondary 

by Pete Mctlugn freshman Randy Harrison at free safety.'• Of those four, only Barnett has
If a plague were to befall. what any game experience. Payne (5-9remains of coach Paul Shoults . 180), a junior from Palmer Park,defensive backfield, he shouldn't Maryland, and Dubenetzky (6-5he surprised, considering what has 216), a sophomore from Hobart,happened to the Notre Dame Indiana , started for the Notresecondary since last year's Sugar Dame JUnior varsity last season.
Bowl victory. 

Harrison (6-2 195) played for First, there was the graduation Hammond High in Hammond, 
of ..'!-American safety Mike Indiana a year ago and should be 
Townsend and cornerback Tim the lone freshman starter Monday 
Hudnick. Over the summer came night. 
the disciplinary action against Shoults listed freshman Ronnie 
strong safety Luther Bradley Cullins (6-1 185) and junior Tom 
suspending him for the year. And Lopienski (6-1 185) as presently in 
finally, as Shoults worked to patch backup positions to Barnett and 
up the depleted secondary in early Payne respectively. At the safety 
fall practice. potential starters positions, sophomore Mike Banks 
Bob Zanot and Tim .. Simon suf­(6-2 195) will spot Dubenetzky,
fpred knee injuries disabling them while freshmen Ted Burgmeier (6­for the season. 0 i83l and Ross Christensen (6-2 
185) are behind Harrison.

Now only four days before the ~Pason opener against Georgia The loss of Simon and Zanot also Tt•rh. coach Shoults has again set created vacancies on the punt up a tentative lineup for his back-return squad. Senior halfback Ron ru~ld. 'If we had to play tomorrow,' Goodman (5-11 192) along with ~aid Shoults, "we'd have Reggie Harrison will handle the receiving Barnett at the left corner, Randy chores. Cullins and Buergmeier Payne at right cornerback, John will backup these positions also. Dubenetzky at :strom!: safety, and In evaluating the freshmen 
Greg Corgan~===========================================================================================================: 
The Irish Eye 
=================================================================================================Preseason polls 
Preseason polls are usually inaccurate, often misleading and frequently a coach's nightmare. Many a head football coach would. prefer the obscurity of an unranked team to the hot spot of a top five position. Rising from number 20 to number ten somehow looks better than dropping from twoto six. Finally, presea~on polls hold as. much significance for a coach in the fall as the Harns po~l he~~ for ,RIC.hard Nixon three years ago. In the words of Ara Parseghian, I don t give a damn what the polls sayinSeptember. It's who's on top in January that matters." 
Nonetheless, preseason polls are interesting and their release is always the first big news for anxiously waiting college football fans. The 1974 college football season will again have its share of surprises, a Ia Notre Dame a year ago: disappointments, Texas in '73; upsets, Tulane over 1.SU, and surely, a jumbling of the final rankings. . 
Four rnonths ago the best team in the nation was Notre Dame. Now, It may be Notre Dame. But Oklahoma looms fears~~e and h~ngry, as ~oes Ohio State. And Alabama again returns a prolific offensive machme. Michigan is out for revenge, and John McKay again has some super sophs at Southern Cal. Of course Penn State will claim the title if they go 12-0 for the second straight year. In the process, however, The Nittany Lions will overlook the fact that they have the easiest schedule in the nation. 
On topof that, there are some n~wcome~s to college football prominence who will again make headhn~s. Pittsburgh. may actually prove to be the best team in the East, whi~e the Red R~Iders of Tex~s Tech are putting Lubbock on the map. Amona a~d A~Izona Sta~e wtll have a head to head intrastate battle, and maybe, tf miracles do mdeed happen, the Big Ten will become respectable. It all starts on September 7. 
For now, The Irish Eye's top twenty. 
I.> Oklahoma II.) PPnn State (see below) 
2. > NotrP DamP 12.) Texas :1. > Ohio StatP 13. > Arkansas I.> Alabama 14.) Houston ;;, ) Southt•rn Cal 15. > Kansas State fi.) Michigan 16.) Missouri i.> Arizona 17.) Texas Tech !!. > Npbraska 18.) UCLA H.> LSl' 19.> Tulane IU.) Pittsburgh 20.) Miami 
and the worst ten: 
1.) Army 
2. > Columbia :u Wakt> Forpst 1.> Iowa 5.) liTEP fi.) Duke 
7. > VandPrbilt !!. > Virginia Tech !1. > California 10.) Indiana Penn State's Schedule 

Sept. 14 Stanford Oct. 26 West Virginia
Sept. 21 Navy Nov. 2 Maryland
Sept. 28 Iowa Nov. 9 North Carolina State 
Oct. 5 Army Nov. 16 Ohio University
Oct. 12 Wake Forest Nov. 23 Pittsburgh 
Oct. 19 Syracuse 

OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Harriers seek '7 4 success 
by Pat Reidy 
Coach Don Faley opens his third season as Notre Dame cross country coach on a note of cautious optimism. "Potentially, this is the best team since I've been here," Faley said. With the top five runners returning from last season, that should be the case. Returning from last year's 2--4 team are senior co-<:aptains Mike Gahagan and Mike Housley, juniors Joe Yates and Jim Hurt, and sophomore Jim Reinhart. Freshman John Boivin, a Bellville, Illinois, product, has been a 
pleasant  surprise  in  early  
workouts.  
This  season,  Faley  is  being  

assisted by Joe Pione, a former distance runner at Loras College in Dubuque, Iowa. Piane gained coaching experience in Nigeria while doing a tour of duty with the Peace Corps. Coach Faley is shooting for 90 to 100 miles a week with two workouts a dav. 
Faley expressed confidence in co-<:aptains Gahagan and Housley as being smart, experienced runners, and good leaders. He cited also, the work of Joe Yates, who was named Correy Award Winner last year as Most Im­proved Track Athlete. 

The cross country schedule includes eight meets, involving mostly Big 10 opponents. The first meet is a home triangular meet <Burke Golf Course) on Sept. 14 with Illinois Normal and Purdue. The only other home meet, and one of the highlights of the season will be the 19th Annual Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 11. The In­vitational usually involves about 35--40 teams and in the past has featured such prominent names as Dave Wottle, Gordon Minty, and Notre Dame's own world record holder Rick Wolhuter. 
Boaters to open 
next weekend 
The '74-'75 soccer team is con­
fident that it will improve upon last 
year's record of two wins, seven 
losses and three ties. This con­
fidence is based on a big turnout of 
dedicated freshmen, and an early 
starting time for practice. 
Commenting on the early 
practice sessions, captain Shaun 
Carroll said, "Sixty people came 
out for our first practice, and quite 
a few were freshmen. No one quit 
the team, and we were forced for 
the first time to cut people from the 
squad. Right now, we have 45 
people, and on Saturday we'll cut 
the squad down to 30 or 35 players. 
The turnout, the attitude and the 
early start have really helped the 
team." 
The soccer team is being 
coached this year by Bob Ralph, 
club president, Tom Pollihan and 
Carroll. The trio replaces Arno 
Zoske, who relinquished his 
position because of phys-ed and 
football duties. 
The team plays a 14 game 
schedule this fall with home and 
away games split evenly. Most 
home games will be played on 
Cartier field, the evening before 
home football games. 
Discussing the schedule, Carroll said, "We have a good schedule and some tough opponents, especially Indiana, Purdue, Goshen and Wabash." 
The Irish open the season at Indiana on September 13, with the first home match slated for Sep­tember 27 against Purdue. 
SNC tennis 
by Kathi Paterno 
The St. Mary's tennis team tryouts were held this past weekend, drawing a field of well over fifty contestants. Twelve girls were chosen for the team by double elimination in ten game pro sets. 

The following girls are members of the 1974 fall team: Monica Cordes, Sheila Finneran (co­captains), Lynn Griffin, Elly Heil, Ann Houser (co-<:aptainl, Maureen Luxem, Sally Obringer, Louise Purcell, Kathy Sheedy, Sue Starck, Barb Timm, and Mary Vieha. 
The fall schedule begins Sep­tember 14 with an away meet at Valpariso and this year includes a state wi4e college tournament for women at Ball State. 
defenders Shoults stated, "There is no Luther Bradley this year. But Randy (Harrison) has the ability to play. He has demonstrated his toughness and his speed (4.5-40 yds.). Overall, we're going to be young and inexperienced." 
Looking toward the Georgia Tech game Monday night, Shoults stressed that Pepper Rodgers' wishbone attack at UCLA last year led the nation in rushing, ranked second in scoring and third in 1total' offense. He does expect the Yellow Jackets' new coach to throw the ball out of the three back offense, "The whole problem with the wishbone is they run, run, run. Then, they run-action fake and throw the ball to their split end or tight end." 
Shoults main concern, however, is not the opposition but the reaction of his inexperienced secondary. "There's a big dif­ference between the practice field and Monday night or Saturday afternoon game conditions. We can't tell how the kids will handle that pressure." In four days, Pepper Rodger's wishbone will at 
least provide a clue. 
\' 
' 


\ 
Coach Paul Shoults casts a watchful eye over his defensive backfield. 








