OD The Inside 
Evel Knievel 
...page 10 
October fest 
...page 2 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 7 September 6, 1974 
SG conducting voter registration 
By Bill Gonzenbach Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame Student Government, in con­junction with Hoosiers for Birch Bayh, is conducting Indiana voter registration for Notre Dame students Sept. 10 11 and 12 in the lobby of LaFortune Student Center fro~ 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and in the dining halls from 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. . . 
Ed Grimmer, Regional Coordinator of Hoo~Ier~ for Birch Bayh, reported that the voter registration IS an attempt to develop a "student block vote" that will aid in the election of officials that will aid students. 
Grimmer stated, "The Nov. 5 election will include national state and county seats which will all affect the stud~nts of Notre Dame" and that "students live at Notre Dame nine months of the year and they spend over $4,000 a year in India':la, so they sh~ul~ ha~~ a vote in the government which affects their lives. 
Grimmer also reported that the bill that would lower the drinking age to 18 would be before the State Legislature this year and that a strong "student block vote" could have a great effect in getting the bill passed.
With regard to the liquor law, Student Body President Pat McLaughlin stated "We can not do anything with a lobby to lower the drinking age without the vote of the students." 
Grimmer reported "The state voter registration law states that a person must be a resident of the state 60 days before the day of election." He added that, "Residency in Indiana is defined as any place you usually sleep." Therefore, all students of the ~~tre Dame community living here before Sept. 5 are eligible 
to register. . . . McLaughlin reported that upon reg1st~rmg to_ vote m Indiana one must file a report that will nullify any previous voter registration: . . . Mrs. June McCauslin, Director of Fmanc1al Aid, stated that any student who receives state grants, 
loans, or aid from any state other than Indiana should not register to vote in Indiana. McCauslin noted that Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Con­
necticut Rhode Island and Maine will nullify all state aid if ~ student changes his voter registration to another state. The Director of Financial Aid also added that there is a high risk that other states will take similar action. 
McLaughlin warned students not to register to vote in Indiana if it would jeopardize their state aid. 

No explosives found 
Bomb scare 
By Zenon Bidzinski Staff Reporter 
An alleged bomb scare threatened the South Quad late Thursday afternoon. An apparent home-made bomb, received in the mail by a Notre Dame woman was dismantled near the front gate by the South Bend Bomb Squad. After the dismantling, the squad an­nounced that no harmful explosives were a part of the mechanism. 
About 4:30p.m., yesterday, the unidentified student discovered what she thought to be a bomb while returning to her dorm from the ND Post Office. Upon discovery, she dropped her package and summoned help. 
A nearby security officer alerted Sgt. Fuhr, also ND security, who removed the 'bomb' from its location 
Panty raid story and pix•.. 
see page 9 


Hall Presidents Council 
holds first '14 meeting 
also addressed the council, explaining that 
By Bob Radziewicz 

a good turnout at the upcoming voter
Staff Reporter 

registration could give Notre Dame a lobby 
Last night at the first Hall Presidents in the Indiana legislature. Council meeting this year Chairman Bob He warned, however, that all students Howl announced that all student bikes must should check their home state regulations be registered wih Campus Security. concerning scholarships and loans. 
Howl explained that unregistered bikes McLaughlin noted that at least four states are illegal on South Bend streets and require financial aid recipients to be subject to impoundment by police. South registered to vote at home. Bend officials have consented to recognize Howl condemned the damage done by a the campus registration as valid in the city. panty raid early Thursday morning. The 
Plans for coordinating registration will HPC chairman urged the hall presidents to be discussed at next Tuesday's meeting. encourage students to respect school and Howl also pointed out that the N.D. personal property. registration is valid nationwide. Hot dog stand permits for home football 
Brian McGinty, judicial coordinator, weekends are now available through Fr. addressed the presidents on the need for Schlaver, director of student activities. setting up hall judicial boards. 'The boards Howl expressed hope that every will not only handle intrahall discipline,' he organization be assigned at least two explained 'but their members will serve in football weekends. advising students of their rights in the Calling this year's work 'busier than ever University judicial process. McGinty before,' Howl noted that the HPC is taking further recommended that the boards be applications for a secretary. All interested trimmed down to increase ex]pecuer1cy persons should contact Howl at the student 
Student Body President government offices in LaFortune. 
~t.. ··., 
-~lT-"' W-.f¥4~. ;, 
"17'~'~"' ~-. L·,';, 

The HPC held their first meeting ?' t~~ new school year last nig_ht, discussing bike registration, hall JUdicial boards and the upcommg 
1974 AUGUST 1974 
1---'---:::::--=---:=---==-=--·

voter registration. <Staff photo by Paul Joyce) 
SMTWTFS 1 2 3 
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 2122 23 24 25 26 27@29 30 31

alerts security 
For the first time in University history,

near the Law School to the middle of the circle between 
the Law School and Alumni Hall. 
students, faculty and staff The alleged bomb consisted of an electric clock, one 
were forced to return for 

D size battery, and a few black firecrackers, according 
classes before Labor Day.

to a report released last night by ND security.. Th_e 
This decision was made last 

structure was encased in a hollowed-out English lit 
year by the Academic

book. 
Council at the request of

The visible parts of the fake explosive prevented any observer from discerning its true identity, the report 
Provost, Father James continued. Two threatening statements inside the book 
Burtchaell. A one-year-trial also indicated the possibility of a bomb . 
lease was granted by the 

. . Below the hollowed-out portion was written, 'Be 
Provost after a slim victory

careful, this is real uranium.' Inside the front cover 
in passing the calendar.

was another statement, but conflicting security reports 
In Monday's paper, an

have obscured its actual content. .. To insure against the possibility of a real bomb, 
exclusive interview with ND security immediately summoned the area Bomb 
Fr. Burtchaell by News Squad. Experienced technicians dismantled the 
Editor, Terry Keeney,

'bomb' by cutting the wires leading to the apparent 
sheds light on the Provost's 

explosives. 
present position toward our

The Bomb Squad took possession of the structure for 
new academic calendar and 

further analysis. A ND security representative also 
stated that law enforcement officials are conducting 
its scheduled recon­the usual investigation into the violation of U.S. postal 
sideration this year. The laws. 
Provost describes his 

Neither security nor the Office of Student Affairs has 
position on the calendar as

released the identity of the ND woman. Her 
a 'Hunch that the one we

relationship to the sender was unknown, as was any 
lhave now is the best.'

explanation for the incident , according to ND security. 
the observer September 6, 1974 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Senate Watergate investigators have identified former Gov. Tim Babcock of Montana as the real source of some $35,000 contributed to the 1972 Nixon campaign by others, the Washington Star-News reported Thursday. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A UPI survey showed Thursday that most of the 13 states involved will defend the legality of their lottery operations at Friday's conference on the issue with Attorney General William B. Saxbe. 
LONDON (UPI) -The Sexual Law Reform Society has recom­mended that Britain lower the legal age of consentto 14, classify rape and incest as assault and eliminate all legal discrimination against homosexual behavior. 
Miami (UPI) -Tropical storm Carmen regained strength and started moving northward today, once again posing a hurricane threat to the coastal areas of the northeast Gulf of Mexico. 
an campu• taday 
friday, september 6, 1974 noon-10 p.m...antique show, midwest quality antique show, north dome, ACC, 
$1.50 

5 p.m. & 7 p.m.--film, "lane plttman" spon. by black studies, eng. aud. free 
ap.m.--concert, wind and hash browns, grace hall, free 
9 p.m.-1 a.m.--coffeehouse, smc presents mark jehle, the scum of the earth, the house, & mark hopkins. hot fudge sundaes--25 cents, smc dining hall basement, free 
12-9 p.m.--art exhibit, faye seriophotos, photo gallery 12 -9 p.m.--art exhibit, sarita levin.."visual image"--new drawings and paintings, little theater--hammes gallery 
saturday, september 7, 1974 

10 a.m.--tennis, women's tennis club tryouts, tennis courts 
noon -10 p.m.--antique show, see above 
12 -9 p.m.--art exhibits, see above 
sunday, september 8, 1974 

2 p.m.--meeting, "talos," the nd science fiction society. new members welcome, 2nd floor Iafortune 6 p.m.--reception, international students receptiooned by international 
student center. lib. aud. & lounge 
7 9 p.m.--art exhibit, s. thomas scarff..neon-drawings, main moreau gallery 
7 9p.m .--cila meeting, new members welcome, lib. aud. 
ap.m.--seminar, general program faculty meeting, will be announced 
Janca and Eder 
move up to 

editorial board 
The selections of ary Janca as St. ary's Editor, and Jim Eder and Pattie Cooney as Contributing Editors were announced yesterday by Tom Drape, Ob.server Editor­in-Chief. 
Janca and Eder will assume their positions on the Editorial Board immediately. Cooney, a senior at St. Mary's was forced to step down as St Mary's Editor due to health reasons. A political science major, she will remain on the Editorial Board. 
Cooney's successor, Mary Janca, is a junior Biology major at St. Mary's from Chicago, II. She has previously served as a day editor, reporter and intern. 
Eder is a junior American Studies major at Notre Dame. He is presently a copyreader and has also had experience as a reporter assigned to the Hall Presidents Council beat. 

Campus activities 
SMC to sponsor October Fest 
by: Chris Bock Staff Reporter 

As a part of the activities planned by the Saint Mary's Social Commission, a special October Fest will be held next month along with movies, dances, and concerts scheduled throughout the semester. 
An October Fest will be held on a Wednesday and Thursday of next month, the exact dates to be an­nounced. SMC Social Com­missioner, Margie Fuchs, hopes this celebration will enable the campus to participate in a spirit of fun. The German departments from both campuses will be working together during the two day festival. 
On Wednesday night a German dinner will be served in the SMC cafeteria with music and folk dancing. A bonfire is scheduled after the dinner, followed by a dance featuring the music of Talisman. Thursday afternoon a soccer game will be held, in con­junction with the Notre Dame soccer team, along with yodeling and apple bobbing contests. Beer steins will be awarded to the contest winners. 
Members of the Notre Dame band will provide German music throughout the afternoon. That 
evening there will be a dance at Stepan Center sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Union. A hayride shuttle will run between the two campu~es during the festival. A hall decorating contest will be held between the St. Mary's dorms with urizes given to the best represente<' hall. 

Help needed for 
annualblood drive 
All ND-SMC students interested in helping with this year's Red Cross Blood Donor Recruitment Drive are invited to a meeting this Sunday at 7:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Organizers ask that students who have previously signed up and any other interested students attend this meeting, at which the new blood program and recruit­ment procedures will be explained. 
Recruiters are needed for the initial stage of the program to help sign up donors within the halls at ND and S,MC and in the dining halls. Anyone who cannot attend the Sunday meeting or wants further information should contact Colleen O'Rourke at 5261. 



SMC COFFEE HOUSE 
VVELCO/v'\ES YOU!! 
Scu JEHLE the 
*MARK 
HOPKINS


THE HOOSE 
fri. night interested 
in gigging?

beneath 9 -1 
sm c caf. CALL43 86now •mmlllllllllliillllillillllii&Lliimnllllllmnmn••mmnmmnmnn•••m••-nmnmlllllil

I CHRIS MANION I 
IRETURNS RETURNS TO THE~ 
I VILLAGE INN i 
-= -=I This V:~~~~dw7~h MUSIC. I i FRIDAY, SATURDAyI & ~ liiiiiiiiiUIUIIIIIInt&r.t,b...sd...t.:I.P,,Y,Y,filr.d.••J.~Iblt'J,9Q,:d 
Saturday, Sept. 7 a free outdoor novie will be held in the courtyard of Moreau Hall. Mae West, W. C. Fields and the Roadrunner are to be featured at the 9 p.m. showing. Weather permitting there will be more outdoor movies throughout the fall. "Easy Rider"will be shown in Carroll Hall Sept. 13 and 
14. Also in Carroll Hall, will be "Butterflies Are Free" on Oct.3 "The Other" will be shown Nov. 20 in the Little Theatre. Admission to all movies is $1.25. 
Movie coordinator, Diane Johnson, will be selling ticket booklets to SMC students in their halls at five dollars for the six scheduled movies. The ticket booklets will be available to Notre Dame students Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in the dining halls. "2001 Space Odyssey", "Dr. Zhivago" and "Harrad Ex­periment" are the movies scheduled for second semester viewing. 
Regina hall will play host to monthly pool parties with music and refreshments. The date for the first party wiH be announced later this month. 
According to Fuchs, the St. Mary's and Notre Dame social commissions will be working together throughout the year to coordinate future events bet­ween both campuses. 
Off--campus commissioner Pat O'Loughlin, will be sending out a newsletter today students keeping them informed of campus ac­tivities. Some get-togethers are planned for the day students, making them feel more a part of the campus communi tv. 
"The St. Mary's Social Com­mission is a relatively new organization, Fuchs stated. "I'd like to see it become an artery of communication on this campus. We are here to i~.3ten to the students and to help improve the social atmosphere." 
The Social Commission welcomes suggestions from students. Anyone interested in working on the committee, should contact Margie Fuchs at 4156 or Mary Donnelly at 4445. 
Welcome To South Bend From 
THE ROMA 

Your Host Frank Anastasio PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
(NOW PLA Ylf\G : POOR YORICK) 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of Riwr Bend Plaza 
CALCULATOR PRICES SMASHED 
Tl-2500 Reduced To $44.95 rI S R -1 0 Slide R u I eN ow $6 9 .9 5 fl SR -11 SlideRuleNow$79.95 
Others From $19.95 

Trubac namednewhead ofAAUP 
By John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 
Edward R. Trubac, associate Professor of Finance, has replaced Dennis Dugan as President of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP). Trubac moved up from Vice­President to President when Dugan left the University on a leave of absence to take over the government's Economics and Budget Staff in Washington, D.C. Trubac will complete Dugan's term·, which ends upon completion of the academic school year. 
Trubac listed several areas that the AAUP will be concerned with this year: defending the principle of academic freedom; improving the econoomic status of the faculty 
and staff; sharing in the gover­nance of the university; clarifying the concept of tenure; cooperating with the Faculty Senate on issues in which interests coincide; and improving the status of women. 
Discussing the financial 
problems faced by faculty members, Trubac said, "We are concerned about the faculty members and real income which has declined in excess of 15· percent over the past few years. Our goals are to push for salary hikes that maintain a competitive position with our peer institutions. Faculty salaries today are not as com­petitive as they were a few years ago." 
Trubac also discussed the Ad­minstration's position on salary increases, and he offered some possible solutions. 
"The administration con­centrates on the cash defilcit that the University may incur in any one year as a reason for limiting s.alary increases," Trubac said. "We feel this focus gives misleading pictures of the financial status of the University. If the University is committed to academic excellence, it should take those steps whieh are necessary to make the Univer­sity's salary level competitive. And, if necessary, this would in-
Asked if salary increases would be emphasized over fringe benefit increases, Trubac said the AAUP was concerned with the total compensation package. He reiterated that faculty members at Notre Dame lagged in salary in­creases and fringe benefits, particularly retirement benefits. 
Trubac pointed out the set of principles published by the national office of the AAUP to explain the local chapter's stance on tenure and shared governance. The principles reject tenure quotas, and they maintain that reasons should be given to a faculty member when he is not re­appointed. They also cite the Academic Manual as one ex­pression of shared governance, and they state that the AAUP would be concerned about any alleged violations of the Manual. 
Commenting on the status of women, Trubac singled out three problem areas: child bearing leaves of absence. salary 
SMC president search continues 
By Mark Jahne 
Staff Reporter 

As the 1974-75 school year begins, the search continues at St. Mary's for a new presidentfor the college. Working hard all summer, a special research committee held more than a dozen meetings and interviewed many possible can­didates in their quest to replace last year's president, Dr. Edward 
L. Henry. 
Although the field is still open to anyone who meets the committee's qualifications, a list of ten preferred candidates has been compiled. Though the committee has yet to reveal any names, they have reported that at least two of the people being considered for the job are women. No comment has been made as to whetehell' or not Acting President Dr. Willliam Hickey is one of those uner serious consideration. 
Dr. Eugene Campanale, Chairman of the SMC Department of Education and one of the members of the research com­mittee explained some of the qualities the committee is looking for in a potentially acceptable candidate. 
Primarily, they are interested in someone who understands the running of a Catholic girls college, and who understands Catholicity in par-ticular. As a result, most of the candidates still under con-
OmbudsllXIn becomes success 
under direction 
By Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter 

The Ombudsman has taken giant leaps since its dismal state three years ago when the furnishings of the , service consisted of a desk, a phone, one chair and two South Bend directories. 
The Ombudsman originated in 1967 with a one man force and operated sporadically, if at all, through 1971. In the last three years under Bill McLean, or 'The Wizard of OM' as he is sometimes called, the group has grown to contain about 120 members who hope to expend 100 man-hours weekly. A telephone call volume of 10,000 is projected this year while last year 4,200 queries and com­plaints were processed. 
Previously the organization has had a very low key profile, but this year McLean stated, 'We want a middle profile so people know we exist.' 


of Bill McLean 
At its inception the Ombudsman dealt basically with information questions, but gradually tlhe em­phasis has shifted to where 60 percent of the calls today c:oncern complaints or problems and only 40 percent deal with information. 
'Anticipation is a big part of the job,' stated McLean Once aware of pending problems, the Om­budsman informs possible affected parties so that they can prepare for their occurrence. 
The core and major coneern of the Ombudsman is their ability to handle all calls coming to their desk. With expanded programs the Ombudsman hopes to se.rve the Notre Dame community even more effectively in the 19q4-1975 academic year. 
elude the use of endowment funds." inequities, and the status of part 
sideration are of the Catholic faith. Dr. Campanale added, "We're looking for people with the ability as well as stability." 
No deadline has been set, but upon completion of their work the commitee will place two or three· favorable candidates up ofr nomination. The Saint Mary's Board of Regents will then choose one of these to become the school's new president. 
j 
l \ 
·· ·--~ 
Campanale 

The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year> from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
ALL ITAllAN FOOD 
1 1 -1 pm WEEKDAYS 1 1 -2 pm WEEKENDS 
PIZZA CARRY OUT 
Ph. 289-0344 LOUNGE 11 -3 pm ALL WEEK 
time faculty. He added that 
Committee would continue to press 
for improvements in the status of 
women at the University. 
Trubac also talked about the question of faculty unions and said "At this time the Notre Dam~ chapter is not actively pushing for unionization, although we do not preclude it as an alternative. Our concern now is that the continuing frustrations faced by faculty members in resolving their con­cerns, will enhance the probability of unionization." 

New AAUP President Edward Trubac set his goals from academic freedom to faculty economics in an Observer interview yesterday. <Staff photo by Paul Joyce) 
:COME TO BULLA SHED AND BRING A FRIEND 
S &DINNEREVERYFRIDAYS 
I~YD~~NOWSHOWNG 
MISHAWAKAAV!NU!ATJOTH 
phone 288 • 8488 for times and directions 
.j II 

~ 
ONE HELL OF APAYOFF! 
A Better Movie Than M·A·S·H! 
' 

( .• hi"'"''' "t'"' ·~ ~" ""'' h 
;t!UH 
Twcnm 
"I' In~ ,1,.,.,, (.,.,,,,,,.

•
' 
..,,.,,,,f.uulllluu(,.,,.ltl
SAF~,BET 
• 
.....................,,, 
"'''"'" ''"' "'"~' 

{,,hlurou.. <,r•hl" do•luuh•J,,, 
MUST-SH 
GEORGE SEGAl ElliOTT GOUlD CAlifORNIA SPUT 

I J I , .-, 
"R "'-:'"." 

f l t ) ~! .J ~ ) ­
~------------------------------~ 

~~,·, .·.. ~ ~ ,~ •.• ... September 6, 1974 

Governors reenact first congress 
By ELLEN SLOTT 

PHILADELPHIA <UPI> Governors from the 13 original Colonies converged on tiny Carpenter's Hall Thursday, just as the founding fathers did 200 years ago, and prepared to reaffirm the orincioles uoon which they built a nation. 
The occasion was the recon­vening of the First Continental Congress in the colonial brick building, where in 1774 dele­gates from the American colonies took the first tentative ste s toward nationhood. 

Well, here it is the Fall of 74 and Action Express is marking its first birthday and what a year it has been. We hope we have been of assistance and will continue to do our best in serving you. With this in mind, it should be stated that as always it comes down to the co­operation of those in charge in getting to the root of the matter and setting it right. We wish to express our graditude and at the same time ask for their continued efforts in seeing that Notre Dame moves forward, but never at the expense of any individual or group of individuals. So, remember if you have a question, Action Ex­press has an answer. 
My bank is pretty far from campus and I wander whether there is any place on campus where I can cash a check? 
On campus there are two check-eashing services. The first is in the Cashiers Office which is located in the basement of the Ad­ministration Building. They require that you make the check out to either yourself or to CASH. You also need aND student ID which you must show upon cashing the chesk. The Cashiers Office is open from 9 am to 11: 55 am and from 2 pm to 4:55 pm Monday thru Friday. As a final note, one must also write their ID number on the check. The other option you have available is at Gilberts which is next to the Bookstore. 
Are there any outdoor swimming pools on campus? 
There are no outdoor swimming pools on this campus, but swimming is allowed in the east end of St. Joe's Lake. Permits to go swimming can be obtained at the Security Office between 7:30 am and 3 pm. The lake will be open as long as the weather permits and is usually open until 6 pm. 
When is the last day to get my phone number and address into the Registrar's Office and still have it In the Student Directory? 
Today, Friday, September 6, 1974 is the last day and the in­formation you have mention has to be in by 5 pm to the Registrar is you are to be listed. Also, any on-eampus students who have mistakes in their listings in the temporary directory should get in touch with the Registrar by 5 pm and submit the necessary corrections. 
I just joined the Knights of Columbus and I was wondering if there is some sort of initiation that I have to go though? 
The Knights of Columbus does have an initiation ceremony and it will be held at 1 pm on Sunday, September 8 in the Knights of Columbus Building. 1 
NOTE: The Ombudsman Service has resumed full operations and is ready and able to assist students with their questions, problems and complaints. Service hours are presently from 9:30am to 5 pm Monday through Friday and you can reach the Ombudsman by 
":3:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::s.
I TIME CHANGE! I 
ISENIOR PICNIC I 
t Saturday, Sept. 7th t SMC Dining Hall field 
2:00 p.m. -6:oo p.m. 


f c.c nc£R!
"' f Rt;. t;. D t;. ,, 
I:~~~Ydl ~~quired I
~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;;;~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:·
. . . 

"This convention is dedicated to individual rights and con­cerned with individual freedom, which has been the guiding philosophy of the last 200 years," said South Carolina Gov. John West during welcom­ing ceremonies. 
"It's good we take time in our hurried living to look back," added Delaware Gov. Sherman Tribbitt. "It gives us a great appreciation of where we are." 
Governors from 12 of the 13 original colonies officially c.on­vened during the afternoon following a picnic lunch on the Independence Mall Historical Park to consider a call by host Gov. Milton J. Shapp of Pennsylvania to petition for a "right to privacy" amendment to the Constitution. 
In a crowded 50-by-30-foot meeting room, considerably larger than the one used by the original delegates, the gover­nors and their aides debated a resolution urging a constitution­al amendment "to guarantee forever that the people have the right to personal privacy and freedom from undue govern­ment interference." 
The resolution, introduced by Shapp, read in part: "Be it resolved that we the under­signed do apprise the Congress of the United States that we subscribe to the right of privacy inherent in the Consti­tution." 
New York delegate Paul Williams opposed the clause "inherent in," contending "it overstates the right to privacy. The right to know is the paramount right." 
"I fear in a highly complex society that too frequently our own right to privacy has been overriden by the right to know," countered Pennsvlvania delegate K. Leroy lrvis. "Penn­ings to clusters of onlookers sylvania strongly urges we outside Carpenter's Hall. Mas­support and draft this." sachusetts Gov. Francis Sar­
Each governor was accom­gent was prevented from panied by a three-man delega­attending by a campaign tion as closed-circuit television debate. camP.ras carried the proceed-
Sunshine Promotions Presents 
Van Morrison 


and Special Guest Dave Loggins Sunday Sept. 15-7:30P.M. 
Athletic and 
Convocation Center

NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices: Bleachers ----------.$4..00 Lower Are•·--------S50t 
Loce ---------------SlO.O 
Platform _-----------SiOO Floor Seats----------$&00 
Tickets On Sale: 
Gate 10 Ticket Office, Student Union Ticket Office (3rd Floor Lafortune), Robertson's, St. Joe Bank & Branches, First Bank Downtown, Elkhart Truth. 

FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Van Morrison. Send to Van Morrison Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION Presents 
• 

CHICAGO WHITE SOX 
vs. 
CALIFORNIA ANGELS 
Sept. 15, 197 4 
Reserved Seats 
& 
Round Trip Bus 
$9.00 
Tickets Available At STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
& 
DINING HALLS *Buses will leave Circle lO:OOA.M. 
• ~ ~ .. ' ' \ \ • I ' 



Observer ads get
Security urges bike registration 
results! ! ! ! ! 
by Pat Flvnn Pears explained how the formation is sent to Dayton, Ohio Staff Reporter Computer Guard registration where it is processed and a print 
SUNDAY MASSES 

In 1922 someone stole O'Hara's system works. Said Pears, 'Each sent to every police agency in the two-wheeler ... , thus began the person desiring to register his bike South Bend vicinity. 
(Main Church} 

posters advertising Campus fills out a form. This form includes Finally, Pears indicated that any 
5: 15 Sat Fr. Robert Griffin C.S.C.
Security's campaign for campus­physical description, serial student desiring to register his wide bicycle registration. Arthur number, ID number, make, etc.' P bike right away could do so at the 
9:30 Sun Fr. Terry Lally C.S.C. 
Pears, current Director of Pears continued, 'This in-Campus Security Office. 
10:45Sun Fr. Robert A. Krieg C.S. C.
Security, told the observer his plans for this 1974 bicycle 
12:15 Sun Fr. Bill Toohey C.S.C. 
registration program. 
Senior class picnic set 
•Evensong' vespers at 4:30pm Sunday in the Lady Chapel
Pears emphasized how suc­
cessful last years call-in of 
Monday through Friday at 5:00pm in the Log Chapel. 
bicycles had been. Stated Pears, Stated Pears, "all in all I think we 
Confessions before the 11:30 and 5:15 masses daily. had about 300 bicycles registered 
lor tonDrrow afternoon 
by Joe LaFiare age requirement.'
last year." This is a large increase 
Staff Reporter Ericksen also added, 'The
over the 85 to 90 registered the 
responsiblility demonstrated at 
*DAVE'S CYCLE SHOP*
previous year. 
this picnic will be a good indicator 
IN COLLEGE SQUARE
Pears also lauded the students A class picnic will be held to the administration how seniorshandling of the registration. Mass A FIFTEEN MIN. RIDE FROM CAMPUStomorrow afternoon for all otre can be entrusted with respon­registration was held at both Dame and St. Mary's senior men sibility. We would not wantDining Halls for a week. For a and women. anything to occur at the picnicdollar students could have their 
WINTER PREP. SPECIAL 
The picnic will begin at 2 p.m. which would jeopardize ourbicycles both registered and stored instead of the originally planned chances of reopening the Senior BEARINGS REPACKEDin the winter. Pears especially time of 4 p.m. The St. Mary's Club.'
praised Chris Singleton who set-up Dean of Students could not be Chris Fenn, senior class CHAIN, DERAILLEURSand ran the program for Student contacted for comment concerning treasurer, said, 'We want this CLEANED & ADJUSTEDGovernment. 
the late time change. picnic to represent a unity amongPears stressed the absolute 
ONLY $10
The picnic will be located by the stseniors. It is an opportunity tonecessity for student help in <REG. $15)SMCdining hall nad will feature a have a good time, while alsorunning the registration program. 
live band, hot dogs, and free beer. demonstrating some respon­"With the influx on bicycles on Because of the recent Indiana sibility. If the picnic is successful, 
ph. 256-0741
campus we have had in the past State Supreme Court rulings, all it may become an annual event for two years, we simply do not have those attending must be 21 years of the senior year.' 
ALL YOUR BIKE NEEDSthe man power to do all the age. According to Greg The senior class officers hoperegistration here," said Pears. 
AT REASONABLE PRICESEricksen, senior class president, that as many seniors as possible 'we will have strict enforcement of will attend apd have a good time. 
To improve relations 
THE 

Special vvo111en's council formed 
CHICAGO CLUB 
By Maureen Flynn turn to the women of St. Mary's for traditionally existed between Staff Reporter female companionship and sup-students from Notre Dame and St. port." Mary's."
The establishment of a special 
of NOTRE DAME
Consequently, Jones feels there All women interested in joiningWomen's Council is the end are fewer opportunities for the the Women's Council or inproduct of a series ofmeetingslast women of both campuses to "share presenting their ideas should 
PRESENTS ITS FIRST
spring between women of St. 
experiences and develop the deep attend the first meeting Wed­Mary's and Notre Dame and frie which have 'nesday, September 11.
administrators of both institutions. In an effort to strengthen the 
EXTRAVAGANZA 
relationship between the two 
SNC. Social Comnission Presents
female student bodies, the new 
organization has set a number of 
TONIGHT 8:00 P.M.
FREE OUTDOOR MOVIE
goals including a lecture series on 
823 NOTRE DAME AVE~E
Human Sexuality , female in­
W.C. Fields -lVbe West
termural athletic competition, 
social activities (such as the 
(across the street from N D opts
with Road Rmmer & Pink Panther 
Dessert Night at St. Marv'sandthe 
Carney '74 at Notre Dame and a 
All Chicago area studentsSat. Sept 7 9:00 P.M
program of women's studies and 
career oooortunities. 
who ioin club will be admitted
OLaughlin O>urtyard
Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, vice­president of student affairs at St. 
free u n payment of dues
Brin Your Blanket, etc.
Mary's said the council is 'particularly interested in the series of lectures on human sexuality, which we hope to develop into a credit course to be incorporated into the curriculum.' 
Student Union Presents 
Plans for the series should be finalized before the start of the second semester. Cannon also cited inter-eampus athletics as an immeauue goal and said the council "hopes to get ideas generated from the students." 
JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR 
An opportunity for Notre Dame and St. Mary's women to discuss these and otner plans will be provided when the Women's 
starring Ted Neeley
Council meets Wednesday , September 11, at 6:30 p.m. in the SMC Day Student Lounge southeast corner of the Madeleva Hall Basement.) 
Film's First Total Rock Musical
In a letter addressed to their fellowstudentslast spring, the initial organizers of the council stressed that it "Is not intended to be a separist or militant feminist 
Sept. 6 and 7
group-rather, an open, responsive way to meet other women who are sharing mutual growing and learning experiences." 
Sister John Miriam Jones, 
_7, 9, 11 P.M. WASHINGTON HALL
assistant to the provost at Notre Dame, explained the need for such an organization. "With each new class of incoming freshmen," she said, "there is less apparent need 
Admission • $1.00 
for the women of Notre Dame to '· ..... •._-. 
~----~-------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
THE OBSERVER 
Wranglers ride again I 
A"1 INDEPENDENT STI.IDFNT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Ann McCarry Editorial Editor  NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  
Bob Zogas Business Manc;:ger  Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob McManus Advertising Manager .  

Bridges of welcome 
Now is the time for building bridges. 
This country needs to build a bridge to reach into Canada to the thousands of young men who for one reason or another had refused to serve militarily in the Vietnam War. 
This country needs a bridge to connect with Mainland, USA for those isolated individuals who chose prison over service in the Armed Forces. 
This country needs a bridge that will symbolize a full faith offer of amnesty to its Vietnam draft resisters 
That bridge already has had its foundation laid in President Ford's recent proposal for conditional amnesty. Ford wishes to allow all draft evaders the opportunity to return home by fuHilling alternate service in volunteer social programs like VISTA and ACTION. 
The specifics of this proposal are to be engineered by Defense Secretary James Schlesinger andAttorneyGeneral William Saxbe. Their plans must include the following provisions: 
Good bridges must be sturdy so that weary travelers are not afraid to cro~~ ... Much has happened since the turbuh~I;t draft protests of the late 60's. Th1~ d~ <1ft protestor has now settled in Canada for seven to eight years. Roots have been formed; friendships and alliances developed. Any proposal for amnesty must be strong enough to welcome these men back without fear of reprisal or despisement. 
This bridge must welcome all travelers without a heavy toll to pay ... The con­ditional alternative service demanded must not be construedas an admissionof guilt in violating the law. For many draft resisters there can be no guilt. To pay that toll as a condition of returning home would be tantamount to violating a conscience which sent him to Canada. Those who choose to to to prison have already paid their toll. In any amnesty proposal, theirs must be at least a recognition that their debt was paid (and a reprieve for their offense.) 
A bridge stands as a monument to the accomplishment of man ... No legislative act or presidential fiat can span so wide a gulf. If this bridge is to be completed, each person must build his own small portion. If amnesty is to be a real pardon in the spirit of healing of which the president speaks, it must include the active support of all Americans. If America can build that kind of sturdy bridge, it will prove a lasting monument to the moral character of the American people. 
The Editorial Board 
the observer

doonesbury by garry trudeau 
~\!)!;:) 
'() MP PR£51/JENT. ~~ Tift:. iUORJ<MEN tA/JI£5 ANO 
{f~
f.{4VG .rwiSHEO GCNTL-EH&N-rH£ R£(J]:;I't:,'<,'TIN6 PR&S!OENT OF THE 
• !t ·-; •'.;3G '?fXJM UN!TEiO STATES/ r B.1CK ;~m; A 
\ 


Editor-in-Chief:  Tom Drape  
Editorial Editor:  Ann McCarry  
Managing Editor:  Marlene Zloza  
Sports Editor:  Greg Corgan  
News Editor:  Terry Keeney  
Copy Editor:  Jeanne Murphy  
Special Projects:  AI Rutherford  
St. Mary's Editor:  Mary Janca  
Senior Night Editor:  Bill Brink  
Features Editor:  J.R. Baker  
Contributing  Editors:  Fred  Graver,  Jim  Eder,  
Pattie Cooney  
Photo Editor:  Zenon Bidzinski  
Night Editor:  Bill Brink  
Assistant Night Editor:  Dean Janke  
Layout:  Maggie  Waltman,  Mary  Reher,  Katy  

Kerwin, Martha Fanning, Diana Wilson, Bob 
Brink, Dennis McNellis, Steve Kellett Judy Petersen 
Copy Reader: Jim Eder and Bob Quakenbush Day Editors: Val Zurblls and Ken Girouard Editorials: Ann McCarry and Ken Girouard Features: J.R. Baker Sports: Greg Corgan, Bill Delaney Typists: Janet Carney, Rick Huber, Tom Modglin, 
Barb Haug, Anne Peeler 
Photos: Paul Joyce Compugraphlc Operator: Kevin Murphy Picture Screener: Albert D'antonio Night Controller: Dave 'Rust 
Returning Alumnus: Art Ferranti 
ed martin 

Of all the quaint stories that will ever be told of and at Notre Dame--and there have been many-one of the quaintest must surely be that of the Wranglers. From thesociety's\n ceotion in 1925 to its obscure demise somewhere in the late '50's, this miscellaneous collection of apprentice Renaissance men strove valiantly to discover the contents of the revered "Little Green Box" which lay on the table before them. Not that the Box was locked or anything. In fact, something new was put into it regularly. At every meeting, one brave and sweating member delievered a paper in which he tried to reveal part or, if her were particularly ambitious, all of the secret of the Box, after which the other members demonstrated to him the length, width, depth, and internal compositon of the inadequacy of his atttempt. The paper, latest in a long line of failures, was then placed in the Box, which became , until next time, the property of the next assailant of its secret. That secret was, of course, never discovered, although it became a particular mark of distinction to have beenamong the failures. Finally, however, whether from the weight of thirty~dd years of inadequacies, and attack of the plague, or simple apathy, the society of vanished, lamented only by its long-graduated fraternity of failures. 
Last winter, though, the need for the Wrangler's special brand of futility finally began to make itself felt again. Specifically, it was felt by Fred Antczak, well-known to past readers of this column, who, in conjuncton with Profesor Edward Goerner, a Wrangler of the Class of 1952, revived the society in a manner that can only be called heroic. He recruited a number of would-be failures, fabricated a makeshift stand-in for the Little Green box <which for all anyone knows, looks exactly like the original), and on February 24, 1974, a date whcih should be recorded in some page of immortal ND folklore, reinaugurated the futile pursuit of the secret of the Green Box, with a nine-page inadequacy entitled "Mystery, Responsibility, and Belief." 
The great work of resurrection was hardly begun when Fred and a large number of te Wranglers did what allWranglers_must one day do--graduate. The society is faced, to be brief, with a severe membership crisis. Thus, any member of the Student Body who feels both willing and qualified to engage in some periodic con­structive futility is hereby invited to join the Wranglers. I should try to join, because there is this hitch. In the glorious past, the Wranglers carefully limited their membership to twenty. While the present reborn Wranglers will not set such a hard and fast limit it is hoped that membership can be kept somewhere near the ~ld figure. Therefore, there will have to be a screening out of some sort. In order, then, to express both your willingness and your qualifications to Wrangle, please take the time to write out, in addition to your name, address and phone number, a BRIEF version of your idea of what the Wranglersareor should be, and -or a brief tourguide, in your own words, to the inside of the Green Box. 
Send this information to me, Ed Martin, 210 St. Ed's Hall, by campus mail, or drop it off at my door, or call me t 8824. 
A further note of caution. The words "screening out" reek of elitism, which, in this day and age of being one's own person, seems but an extension of that cardinal sin of pretense or preten­sion. But the quest for the·secret of the Little Green Box cannot, after all, be attempted head~n without a certain amount of pretension . Organizational integrity bids the Wranglers be that way. In the past, the Wranglerswereunabashedly elitist; today we, their successors, must remain so, if abashedly. The Wranglers of today are thereby simply responding to the tug of a worthwhile, if not well-known, part of the Notre Dame traditionalism. To be a Wrangler has never been, nor should it ever be, a light or trivial affair. 
Discussions of the Wranglers therefore tend be highly speculative, a quality more often described as "coldly in­tellectual," though this epitaph is but a half-truth. The distinctions between and among "to think," "to believe," and "too feel" are strictly adhered to, and the first is always preferred to the last. Yet this "coldness" is governed by one of the Wranglers' two mottoes: "Meden agan"--"the Middle Way." The Wranglers are dedicated, above all, to finding a direction, a way, not simply of method, but of knowledge itself, to the idea, in other words, that learning can be directed towards the goal of an abstract knowledge. 
That goal is expressed by the second and more important of the Wranglers' mottoes: "Gnothi seauton"-"Know thyself." One certainly knows oneself better than he does any other person, yet one is constantly aware that he knows only the smallest part of himself. It is in this motto that the meaning of the paradoxical symbolismof the Green Box lies. The papers that reside in it pur­port to be revelations of the Box's contents, yet they themselves are its contents. Perfect knowledge of oneself is an ideal. What we know for sure about ourselves, however is precisely that recorded sum total of what we expect to find when and if that ideal comes to pass. This knowledge is valuable because it lies directly in the path of the ideal knowledge its components are the milestones on the Middle Way. The intellectualism and pretentiousness of the Wrangelrs is limited only by the foreknowledge that the secret of the Green Box will remain hidden fro us. But within those limits, they reign supreme in theforeknowledgethat there is something important to be learned by audacious failure, that there is such a thing as constructive futility. 
Won't you join us? 
Letters Ta Fl Lanely Eiad 
i met a man who had no shoes 



Being without toes is probably not a remarkable credential among the street people of New York City; but for John Failin' ('It's really spelled P-h-e-1-a-n," he says, "but I write it Failin',because I goof so much."), the loss of his toes four years ago at St. Vincent's Hospital was as rehabilitating to his moral life as it was crippling for his feet. Four years ago, John, in his middle-age, was one of the leading lushes of Greenwich Village, cadging coins from tourists and feeding a thirst for booze as carefully as though whiskey were the leading sacrament of a religion upon which his salvation depended. One night while drunk in the deep winter, he sold his shoes for the price of a drink. Wrapping his feet in rags, he walked through the snow from Seventh Avenue to the Bowery, where he hoped to get new boots at the Catholic Worker. On the way, frostbite nipped at his feet as though they were late-blooming dahlias. When gangrene set in, John and his toes parted company; at least they parted company until the resurrection, when, as John says, he plans to get those toes back again. "I have not seen," says the Lord, "so great a faith in all of Israel." 
There are advantages for those who are 
toeless in Gotham, as there were for him 
who was eyeless in Gaza. John gets special 
medical care from the City and a pension 
from the state for his disability; and if he 
isn't able to dance much anymore, at least 
he can walk as a man might walk if the soles 
of his feet were made of eggshells. 
Moreover, John has exchanged his thirst 
after booze for a thirst after righteousness, 
and you can meet him each afternoon of the 
summer serving iced tea to the old people, 
working as a volunteer supervisor in the 
Christopher Street Park. 
It was as a host in the Park that I first became acquainted with John this sum­mer. Christopher Street, with its wild reputation as a sexual Bohemia, was just around the block from the church I was priesting at. John, meeting me on an evening walk, recognized me from Mass, and invited me to visit that shifting com­munity of derelicts and street people who, at night time, replace the old folks as the Christopher Park regulars. 
For a hour or more, we sat in the dark shadows of General Sheridan's statue while John told me of his work as a volunteer park supervisor: planting flowers and grass seed in the morning; throwing the winos with their brown paper bags out of the park so that the old people would not be afraid to come in and sun themselves in the af­ternoon; keeping the sidewalks cleared of trash and broken glass in order to give the place a kind of dignity that mothers with small children could enjoy. 
As we talked, a111other kind of scene was 
unfolding itself: lthe night scene of people 
needing each other, who collected together 
at darkness, and John was their Good 
Samaritan. He kept a newspaper in his back 
pocket from a group called "Everything for 
Everybody" that listed all the soup kit­
chens, welfare shelters, flop houses, and 
missions in the City, together with a rating 
of the services these places provided. For 
example, the Salvation Army furnishes the 
best free meals, but the dinner guests are 
required to attend the Gospel preaching; 
ergo, the Salvation Army is not recom­
mended to the atheistic hungry. 
When a young couple, hungry and without 
beds, spoke to John, he referred them to his 
newspaper, where they could choose a place 
to be fed and sheltered for the night. In addition to referrals like this, he offered several kinds of free advice. A girl, two months married, was trying to pick up a boy friend from the park benches and go drinking, until John gave her a little lecture, and sent her home to keep her vows and make supper. A freaked-out character named Kissin' John, simply pathetic in a woman's dress, raced up and down the sidewalks, screaming at the top of his lungs, until his demons were exorcised by a quieting word from the wounded healer. A hustler appeared with pockets jingling with the coin of illicit commerce. He gave a tithing from his labors to John, as to a parish priest, for emergency rations needed by the old guys. Chaps came along, looking for friends they were worried about; John noted their concern, and took messages for delivery. He offered news of comfort about those who, when last seen, were alive and well; and he gave counsel about those who seemed to need looking after, especially the young people. 
In honesty, Christopher Street seems like a place where most people need looking after. It was a happier neighborhood than 42nd street, but one could see the vacant-eyed youths who will eventually end up with scars on their wrists. Conversations you couldn't help over-hearing sounded like scenes from the Boys in the Band, and even as a priest in the parish, I could think of no effective protest of the ways· people con­sented to their own exploitation and destruction. Yet, it was obvious that there were many kinds of caring going on, and that the old and the young alike kept the 
Among all whom I metwho shared, John Failin' was the prince, though he had his critics. Some of the street crowd criticized him, especially when he called the cops to eject the quarrelsome drunks from his beloved park. Street people just don't believe in letting the police hassle anybody. But John was more concerned with defending the rights of the helplessly old, and the peace lovers, against bullies than he was in observing the street codes, though ex­perience had taught him to be as disgusted with the insides of the pokey as any other brawler who earned himself time in the Tombs. All summer long, after that first night, he kept sending people to the rectory for me to help with busfare, or food or money, or an occasional article of clothing. 
The night I left New York, I went down to the Christopher Street Park to say goodbye to John. His feet were hurting him, he said. "But if you come back in the spring, there will be flowers growing around General Sheridan's statue." In the next issue of "Everything for Everybody", he said, he was going to list my name as one who helped, as it was going to get as many stars as the Salvation Army. Then people could write to me at Notre Dame, he said, and I could continue being good to them. 
I told him I was sorry about his feet hurting. I said I was happy to hear about the flowers. "~ut, John;'' I said, "You have enough worrying to do about Christopher Street. I have all the people 1 can care about at Notre Dame." 
"Golly, Robert," he said. "A place like Notre Dame must keep you on your toes." There was a twinkle in his eye when he 


jungle from closing in by their willingness to said it that I thl.nk he knew how ironic it share their good luck and small fortune, would be for me to try to return the com-when it happened, with one another. pliment. 
entertainment and escapism 
a review by steve sorrel/ 
Never was more ornate escapism offered than at a theater playing a musical from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, the studio that did them bigger and better than any other. "That's Entertainment" is a movie highlighting the best of the studio's productions from 1929 to 1958. 
Film musicals were born in the fall of 1927 when New York audiences first heard AI Jolson's voice in "The Jazz Player." MGM soon realized musicals were not a passing fad and started to produce musicals in 1929. In that same year MGM's "BroadwaJ Melody" was voted Best Picture by the 
....._ ltU)n' thctll d IJtOl ic·. ••., cl ( ··••-hr.d iun. 

Academy of Motion Picture Arts and 
Sciences. For several decades thereafter 
MGM dominated the film musicals for their 
motto was "Do it big, do it right, and give it 
class." "That's Entertainment" depicts 
how the studio lived up to this dictum for 
nearly three decades. 
Jack Haley, Jr. wrote, produced, and 
directed this nostalgic film. After two years 
of research and screening over two hundred 
films, Haley reduced the number down to 
one hundred. Then began the task of 
~iting, assembling, and narrating the film 
which told thirty years of MGM musical 
history. 
This two and a half hour movie is narrated by some of the people that made this era legendary: Fred Astaire, Bing Crosby, Gene Kelly, Peter Lawford, Donald O'Connor, Debbie Reynolds, Mickey Rooney, Frank Sinatra, James Stewart, and Elizabeth Taylor. To represent the younger generation of musical talent, Liza Minelli narrated a segment of the film; she, , however, was out of place compared to the luminaries of MGM's "Golden AgP." Miss Minelli spoke of her mother, Judy tiarland, "Whatever bumps or rocks there were in the road, she never let it show in her films. For 
Mama, it was straight-up all the way." 
Justifications and eulogies of Garland's 
tragic life were not appropriate for the tone 
of "That's Entertainment," but Liza is all 
but married to the producer, Jack Haley, so 
she could insert her tribute in the film. 
Many of the film segments depicting the 
infancy of musicals were schmaltz, but even 
these elaborate fantasies can be enjoyed. 
Just sit back and slurp it up! But for the 
early thirties the audiences had to forget the 
depression with such grandiose productions 
as "Rosalie" with Eleanor Powell, "Indian 
Love Call" with the famous singing duo of 
Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson Eddy, and 
with Dennis Morgan singing "A Pretty Girl 
is Like a Melody." Maturity would come to 
the musical in the forties and fifties. 

... ......_ 

"Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland in "Babes on Broadway." 
Because of the demand for musicals, the studio forced many good dramatic actors and actresses into singing roles. "That's Entertainment" shows Joan Crawford in 
two hilarious musical roles and James 1 Stewart singing Cole Porter's "Easy to Love." As Liz Taylor candidly remarks during the narration, MGM even coerced her and Clark Gable to sing, but their voices were no threat for the musical had passed 
through adolescence. 

Judy Garland, formerly of the Gumm 
Sisters, and Mickey Rooney teamed up for 
many famous films-"Babes in Arms,", 
"Waitin' for the Robert E. Lee," "Babes on 
Broadway," and "Strike Up the Band." 
Garland of course starred in "The Wizard of 
Oz," and her last picture with MGM, 
perhaps her masterpiece, was "Get Hap­
py." Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers 
danced into the hearts of millions of 
moviegoers with many famous motion 
pictures. But not only was the musical 
expanding into new song and dance-the 
media went into water as Esther Williams 
starred in many aqueous reveries. 
The industry further matured with movies 
as "Showboat" and "Gigi." Gene Kelly 
brought the art to its pinnacle with "Singin' 
in the Rain" and the masterpiece of MGM 
musicals-"An American in Paris." 
"That's Entertainment" does have flaws. 
The movie is a series of film clips more in 
the style of a documentary, not a story with 
a plot. With Haley's influence the film is 
heavy on Garland, but perhaps she is the 
queen of singing screen and deserves this 
exposure. More clips could be shown from 
"An American in Paris," "Gigi," and "The 
Wizard of Oz," and in many of the segments 
of dramatic actors forced into singing could 
be dropped so that more of the classic ~scenes could be viewed. 
"That's Entertainment," which is currently playing at the Scottsdale Theater, is part of the current popularity of nostalgia. 
One must enter the theater as an escapist then one will leave singing the tunes of the MGM musical heyday and even say "That Was Entertainment." 

Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers star in the memorable hit, "The Barkleys of Broad­way." 

the observer September 6, 1974
8 
Eighteen are appointed 
Academic and ad~ninistrative positions announced 

By Ken Girouard Staff Reporter 

The new 1974-1975 academic and administrative positions were announced yesterday. RtV. James 
T. Burlchaell. Provost of the llniversity, issued a list of the 18 men who have been appointed to head various Colleges,. Depa::-t­mrnls and Institutions of the llniver~ity. The appointments include three new deans and ,, ssistant deans, ten department ('hairmen and five directors of institutions. ' 
The new administrators are: Dr. David L. Appel, Acting Chairman of the Department of Marketing; Dr. Reginald F. Bain, Chairman of the Department of Speech and Drama; Dr. William Berry, Assistant Dean of the College of Engineering; Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C., Acting Curator of the Art Gallery; Dr. Leo 
A. Despres. Chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology-; Mr. Richard Emge, Assistant Director of the Center for Continuing Education; Rev. James F. Flanigan, Chair­man of the Art Department; Dr. Yusaku Furuhashi, Acting Dean of the College of Business Ad­ministration; and Mr. James Langford, Director of the 
Chimp goes bancmas on Mike Douglas' talk show 
PHILADELPHIA <UPI) -It tooka a tranquilizer blow dart and handcuffs Wednesday to end Marving the chimp's reign of terror in a television newsroom. 
For more than an hour, "Marvin the Magnificent" ripoed up papers, climbed ondesks and tore out ceiling tiles at station KYW. 
The problem began when the 4 1h foot, 90 pound chimp evaded his trainer, Bill Hampton of Los Angeles, and left the set of the Mike Douglas Show, which originates at the KYW studio. 
The 11-year-old chimp. who had wandered into the audience during the show, hustleddown the hall and made straight for the clatter of teletype machines and typewriters. 
"He started throwing papers, clipboards and climbing all over the desks," said producer Steve Shusman. "That was when everybody became seriously con­C'erned for their 
Earlier in the day, Marvin had been brought to the newsroom on University Press. 
Also appointed yesterday were: 
Dr. Vincent P. Lannie, Chairman 
of the Department of Graduate 
Studies in Education; Dr. William 
H. Leahy, Acting Chairman of the Department of Graduate Studies in Education; Dr. William H. Leahy, Acting Chairman of the Depart­
ment of Economics; Rev. Marvin 
R. O'Connell, Chairman of the Department of History; Dr. Ettore 
A. J. Peretti, Acting Chairman of the Department of MPtallurgy and <continuing as) Assistant Dean of the College of Engineering; Dr. Dean A. Portt..r, Director of the Art Gallery; Rev. William F. Presley, Assistant of the Freshman Year of Studies; Dr. Konrad Schaum, Chairman of the Department of 
Modern and Classical Languages; Mr. Dale W. Schutt, Assistant Director of the Radiation Laboratory; and Dr. Warren J. 
UN Should have 
Wong, Chairman of the Depart­ment of Mathematics. 
There are five men who are serving in acting or temporary positions. Fr. Burtchaell said that the usual term for an acting head was one year. "Usually, a tem­porary post is assigned when the position has been vacated late in the previous semester," he noted. A search is then conducted to fill the position. When asked if the acting head usually becomes the permanent holder of the position, Burtchaell replied, "Not necessarily, for often a new person is chosen. It serves as proof that a thorough search has been con­ducted." 
The ..manner of selection of ad­ministrators varies with the position. In the choosing of a Dean of a College, the Provost notifies the College and receives nominations and recom­mendations from a council of ProfessClrs and associate 
professors. The Provost, along 
roller s~ates by Hampton, who said the chimp got excited when the JJDre Jm p0r an r0 e The procedure of appointing 
staff greeted his return with 
laughter."The first time he was here, he 
was a good newsman," said one of the reporters. "He drank coffee, read the newspaper and answered the telephone.·· Staff members then coaxed l'narvin into a vacant room, but after the door was closed, he chimp broke through the 
suspended ceiling tiles. He made his way to just above 
the reception area and tore out 
some more tiles, forcing 
evacuation of the newsroom. 
A veterinarian from the · Philadelphia Zoo was summoned 
and he tranquilized the chimp with 
a blow dart. 
Police moved in, pinned Mar­
ving's arms behind his back, 
handcuffed him and carted him 

with the President of the 
• f f 1 University, makes the decision. 
UNITED NATIONS (UP!) _ 
Secretary General Kurt Waldheim told the world community Thur­sday that no single nation or group, however powerful, could solve the problems of the world alone. 
'Many great civilizations in history have collapsed at the very 
height of their achievement 
because they were unable to adjust to the new situations which faced them,' he said.
In his annual report to the General Assembly, Waldheim said the United Nations should have to play an ever more important role in world affairs. The report, issued annually before the opening of the assembly's regular session, is the 'state of the world' message by the secretary general. 
Department Chairmen is handled 
within the respective College. The Provost then receives the 
recommendation from the Dean of 
the College. 

Many of the appointments an­nounced yesterday were made over the summer. They all 
became effective a week before the beginning of the school year. 

Burtchaell 


OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
who did not leave their phone numbers with us at Registration, but are interested •1n being listed in the University Directory, please leave your Name, Address, I.D. Number and Phone Number at the Student 
Government Offices, 2nd floor LaFortune or Call 283-7668 
Before Friday At 5 P.M. 
t I ' • 1 I ~ ,· • • ~ 


... " ., " .,. " ." ., ............................................,..., .. , ... ' .. , 


.. . ., ~ 
; I I 

September 6, 1974 
the observer 9. 

Bats present health problem 
by John Kenword Staff Reporter 
FRESHMAN QUESTION NO. 10,047: "Is it true that there are bats in Notre Dame's belfry'?" ANSWER: "Maybe not, but wherever they come from there are bats of the type furry and winged, on cam­pus." 
Rumors fluttering about con­cerning the existence of bats taking up residence in certain halls are not to be taken as mere in­nuendo or hearsay. Several reports pointing out their presence have been made by persons living in Walsh Hall, as well as by per­sons observing them in the Engineering Building and in Washington Hall, the Security Department disclosed today. 
It seems that this is the migrating season for them, and the approaching frigidity of the various bat havens such as the numerous limestone caves, bell towers, and belfries in northern Indiana, has prompted them to look for bigger and better things 
down South. But the height of the 
Notre Dame buildings, their warmth, and attics' darknes:s has enticed a few bats to take up temporary quarters here. BJroken windows and small holes provide easy passageway for the small,mouse-sized mammals, and few halls are exempt from a potential 
entrance or two. 
The interrelationship between 
bat and man would all be fine and 
well except for the ri~~htful 
assumption that all bats have 
rabies, andhuman.tear of,them that 
rashly prompts an immediate 
attempt at extermination. This 
has resulted in at least two 
traumas, the Infirmary reported. 
One student, a male, was rec!ently 
treated for potential rabies 
because of a bat bite, and a 
custodian here received injuries 
when he fell off of a ladder in a bat· 
killing attempt. 
In reality the small bats nov. invading Notre . Dame are har· mless enough, making their living on fruit and insects and never on blood as do some species to be found in South America. But the bat amongst the animal kin_gdom has a rather high incidence of rabies, so it must be assumed that 
they all are inflicted. just to be on bites can be. highly hazardous, so would also do much harm to the safe side. one must act quickly. people., 
Should you encounter a bat in Measures besides out and out Riley hopes that next summer an your near vicinity, do not go after extermination are being taken or extensive survey of the buildings it with bare hands. Mr. Riley in-planned by the University. Calls at duLac wi~ be provided fOf, so structs:" It's better to be safe than from Walsh have brought Riley out that the solution may be achieved sorry. A cornered bat will bite a to investigate the situation, in before next year's migrations pose human, and though the chance that order to seal up the places where the problem again. But before that the animal has rabies is slight, the the bats are slipping through. time, the bats will be long gone. doctor has no choice but to ad-"Fumigation, however, is out of Notre Dame is assured by Riley minister the vaccine." If one the question." comments Riley, that_ with the cooler weather wishes to kill a bat, Mr. Riley ,-";;.F.-oro...;;wo;;h;o;il•e.;.it:;.w~oul::d~kill~·~th::;e~ba=ts:..i~~r,t_'CO;;;m;;I;;.;a~.o•,:th::e:..iba=.:t:::.s..:w:,:ill~be~=o·=-­

advises the use of a tennis racket 
that keeps the smasher a healthy 
distance away from the winged 
smashee. 
"It is best to hit them while they are in mid-flight." Riley adds. If you are not the Jack-the-bat-killer type, however, then report the incident to the Security Depart­ment. 
"We've had three or so cases so 
far where we have sent out an 
experienced officer to kill the 
animal," reported the Security 
office this afternoon. 
Should vou encounter a bat bite, then immediately try to kill the animal, save it for tests in In­dianapolis, and report the bite with 
no delay to the Infirmary. Bat 




-• 10 the observer September s, 1974 
Evel to ride rocket 
Knievel readies 
and Canada which will show
By BILL BUCY 

closed circuit telecasts of the
TWIN FALLS, Idaho (UPI) "jump" had picked up in the 
-With several hundred per­
final days.
sons already camped at the "'Exhibitors report sales are
launch site and ticket sales going gangbusters -doublingbooming, promoters of Evel and tripling what they had in atKnievel 's rocket ride over the the start of the week, and weSnake River insisted Thursday 
the stunt is safely engineered 
but still risky enough to be 
worth seeing. 
Caught between critics who contended the daredevil's jump was suicidal and those who said it was about as dangerous as a carnival act, officials of Top Hank Inc. predicted success and talked of danger. 
"Ill' is going to make it with lots of room to spare," said Bob Arum. president of the promotion firm. which has guaranteed Knievel $6 million for the "jump" across the quarter-mile gorge on Sunday afternoon. 
Then he added: "But it will he risky. I wouldn't want to be in his shoes." 
Robert Truax -a former aerospace engineer who de­signed the steam-powered rock­et that Knievel will drive off a steep, 2,000-foot ramp and parachute to the other side of the river-said he had "no fears about success," then quickly added that he would have liked more tests. 
Truax said every foreseen contingency had been taken care of and that Knievel has a near-perfect chance of survival. 
"There are no weaknesses that I know of," he said. "I have tested everything that we have any suspicion of that there might be trouble." 
But he then described the flight as a "hazardous venture" and said he would like to make many more tests on the engine, which he said was capable of carrying the "skycycle" to an altitude of 2,800 feet and a distance of two miles without the parachute. 
Truax said there was neither time nor money for more tests and compared the daredevil's vehicle to "an experimental aircraft built in a hurry on not quite enough money." 
for canyon blast off 
expect sales  to  continue  to  the  of the launch site. City officials  launching compound  on  Sunday 
last  minute,"  Arum  said. "'The  estimated  a  vanguard  of  about  a_fternoon.  He  made the  predic­ 
exhibitors expect to  go capacity  1,000  of  an  anticipated  75,000  lion  Wednesday  night  before  
or  near  capacity."  spectators  had  arrived  by  taking off in  his private jet for  
Several  hundred  persons  - midday Thursday.  his home in Butte, Montana. He  
some  in  tents  and  more  in  Knievel,  34, predicted  a  paid  planned  to  fly  back-and-forth  
recreation vehicles -gathered  crowd  -at  $25  a  head  -of  over  the  220-mile  route  daily  
to  watch  the  final  pre  rations  more  than  45,000  in  e  until the stunt.  


Arum said ticket sales at 275 theaters in the United States 
Congress gives 
Soften your surroundings. 
Scatter a room with soft seating. Bean bag chairs
Smokey the Bear 
are made for lounging. Scads of bright decorator colors to choose from! Heavy duty vinyl, double stitched with nylon thread. Bag it at Pier 1 -a
a grave site 
storehouse of decorating ideas! 
WASHINGTON <UPI> ­Congress declared Thursday that 
Bean bags only ..................... 
24.98 
it wants Smokey the Bear sent back home when he dies. 
Smokey, the aging symbol of America's fight against forest fires, is spending his dotage at Washington's zoo. A younger bear lives nearby, ready to take over the symbolic duties. 
The Senate completed congressional passage today of a sense-of-Congress resolution favoring taking Smokey's remains hack to Capitan N.M., when he dies. Nobody knows exactly where he was born, but he was rescued from a forest fire in Lincoln National Forest when still a cub in 1950. 
At the time, the nation had a forest fire prevention campaign 
New hours Mon. -Thurs. 1 0-9 Fri. -Sat. 10-1 0 Sun. 12-6 and Smokey became its symbol. On posters and pamphlets, he appeared in ranger's broad­brimmed hat and overalls, exhorting all to help prevent forest 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka
fires. 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery
The Washington zoo became his 

LONDON PARIS ANTWERP. ROTTERDAM. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. TORONTO. MONTREAL.
permanent home, and millions of 
VANCOUVER. NEW YORK. BOSTON. MIAMI. PHILIDELPHIA CHICAGO DETROIT PITTSBURGH HOUSTON. DALLAS. PHOENIX SAN fRANCISCO. SEATTLE. LOS AN-GELES . .
people have seen the natural bear or have come to know his poster 
• • I J , I t•~•·' 1.1. ~ ·-~~.). #) ,; ~.,,,
image. 
.., '...• ,-........ ·...._·... ~...·. . .. ... ' 


CLASSIFIED ADS
Student basketball tickets 
FOR SALE 4 Oynaco 835 spkrs. 1 yr. old. List
should be ready this :month 
$120 each. Asking $65 each. Call 
by Paul Young Staff Reporter Despite rumors to the contrary, 
student  tickets  will  be  made  
available  for  the  1974-75  Notre  
Dame basketball season.  
Don  Bouffard,  ACC  ticket  

manager, yesterday refuted the rumors that basketball tickets would be sold to the public generally without special allot­ment for students. These rumors apparently had root in the fact that basketball tickets were not offered to students last sprinli!. 
In previous years student season tickets have been sold in April for the following basketball season. 
Bouffard has been reluctant to answer Observer inquiries seeking ticket information. Offering ex­planation for his silenceBouffard said, "I haven't vet worked out the 
NotreDamesaving precious energy 
By Matt Yokom Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame Energy Con­servation Committee Chairman Fr. James Flanigan stated yesterday that the university has used 1.5 million kilowatt hours less than budgeted so far this year. 
"This is the first time in its history that the power plant came within its budget," Flanigan noted. 
The main area of savings has been in the consumption of elec­tricity. Flanigan said, "The library has made the most dramatic savings." He explained the reduction mainly resulted from elimination of excessive lighting. He also noted the ACC has saved a large amount of electricity by cutting decorative lighting. 
An adequate supply of energy has been the main concern of the committee. The supply of coal, the primary fuel of the University, is slowed by the lack of enough railroad cars. It may be further slowed by a possible mine strike this fall. 
So far the committee's keynote has been voluntary co-operation. The savings have been achieved by simple things that don't burden anyone. Flanigan cited the reminders above light switches to turn off unused lights is one example. 
Flanigan said congratulations are in order to all those who have cooperated in cutting waste energy. However, he felt that a continued effort must be made in order to insure an adequate supply of energy. 
Episcopalian mass 
to be regularly held in Grace hall 
There will be an Episcopalian celebration of the Holy Eucharist held in the chapel of Grace Towers every Thursday at 5 p.m. The sen·ices are under the direction of the Rev. Leone! L. Mitchell, an Episcopal priest who is a member of the Theology Department faculty. 

SCARIILLE  OATHS  
TARO  TEAS  GROAT  
ONfWAY  PERUSE  

NONNY DAMEIOCTA ENTER EllA WHAM 

WANTED 
Desperately need Purdue tix, GA and-or student. Call Joe 3663. 
1 or 2 GA or faculty tickets for Purdue + Army games. 234-1672. 
Help wanted: 20-30 hrs. Must have car. Pandora's books. We're friendly people. 233-2342. 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. South Bend. 
Wanted: Roommate to share 2 Bedroom apt. at Turtle creek. 272· 1239. 
Elvis Presley Concert tickets for trade. We have 2 tickets First Row--Main Floor, Oct. Show. Will trade for 2 tickets Rows 1-10 main floor, Sept. Show. Call 288-8435 or 234·7316. 
Help! Need 2 GA tickets for Purdue game. Call Ellen 1348. 
Need 4 Miami GA tickets. Also tickets for any other home game. Chuck 1592. 
Wanted to buy: Girls used bike. Please call 234-7616. 
Needed: Assistant debate coach; law or grad student. Call John Borkowski at 2182 or 3700. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Please call Dave 3458. 
Need student or GA tickets for Purdue. Call Paul 8923. 
Needed desperately: 4 GPA Purdue tickets. Call Karen 5140. 
NOTICES 
Talisman & the Hash Brown Blues Band now available for dances, parties, concerts, and pre.game performances. Call 272-9895 for information. 
Frank needs a few good men! Pizza delivery, bartending, dish­washing, cooking, etc. Apply at the Roma, 219 N. Michigan Avenue (Nexf to Morris Civic Auditorium). 
lnPIRG office hours: 1·3 p.m. daily. Student Government Of. fices, 2nd floor LaFortune, 7668, 6413. 
The student Union ticket office hours this semester will be 12:15 . 5:00 MWF and 11:00. 1:00 & 2:30­
5:00 TT. The ticket office is located on the South end of the second floor La Fortune (above the Huddle). Van Morrison & Sha Na Na tickets now available. 
Money? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150 for 30 days at 1 per cent interest and 1 day waiting period. 11:15 . 12:15 dally, Basement of LaFortune. 
24 hr. TV repair. Color TVs ~and up 282-1955. 
Management Club sign-ups Thursday and Friday noon in Hayes-Healy. Activities include seminars and smokers. 
Handmade Indian turquoise 
jewelry from the Southwest. Rings, bracelets, earings and accessories, all very reasonably priced. 287-0076 after 7. 
The Sunday additions of the New York Times and Washington Post at Pandor as Books on Sunday. Get your copy the day it Is meant to be read. 602 North St. Louis Blvd. South Bend. 
Stamp collectors: anyone ln. terested in trading stamps call Jim at 8625 or 8627. 
ALL J.D. CHECKERS FOR SENIOR CLASS PICNIC PLEASE! REPORT AT 1:30 P.M. INSTEAD OF 3:30P.M. 

mechanics of it (ticket sales) and woUld just as soon not have any rumors started." 
Bouffard indicated that the price of basketball tickets will not vary much from last year. He also predicted tickets "an over­
whelming  student  response "  in  
sales.  
Bouffard  hopes  "to  have  the  

whole thing together by the end of September." He plans to publicize 
athletic bulletins to the dormitories and possibly mailing information to individual students." 
Bouffard also mentioned the possibility of advertising in the Observer. 
One reason for the delay, ac­cording to Bouffard, was to give him an opportunity to examine student enrollment over the summer so that he might "get a good idea of how many tickets to 
the sale of tickets "by sending print." 

DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. "7-i Gen"l Features Corp. ACROSS London John Paul Jones 1 Jefferson 50 Brit. fliers 28 Palm fruits 7 Great composer 51 "Samson and 30 Old-time playing 13 Public esteem -" card 14 Statesman Dean 53 Gazzara 32 Pistol~ Slang 16 Where Astoria is 54 Incentive 33 Underhand 17 Glencoe resident 56 Opera barber throw 19 Electrified 58 Adam or Eve 34 Candles particle 59 Literary mentor 35 Mime 20 Dominate 60 End of a pencil 36 In good faith: 22 Corroded 61 Takes up again Lat. 23 Baltic port 37 Freeman of 25 Laughing DOWN lowest class in 26 Comfortable 1 Three-horse early England 27 Pungent Russian vehicle 39 Professional 29 Musical abbr. 2 Illustrious boxer 30 Four: Prefix 3 Kitchen gadget 41 Dissolved sub­31 Bakery product 4 Stein's relative stance 33 Rope 5 Over 43 Having rounded 34 Native of Lhasa 6 Hidalgo's title protuberances 37 Wicker frame 7 Christmas bowl 44 Bridle path in boat 8 Speech inflection London's Hyde ::18 Love knot 9 Spook Park 39 Type of jazz 10 Tennis needs 45 Respects 40 Tropical fruits: 11 Letter 47 Genus of the cat Sp. 12 Like Romeo 48 More secure 41 Rialto sign 15 Unadulterated 51 The Danube, in 42 Cultivation of 18 Deny Hungary the soil: Poet 21 'The Lorelei, for 52 Conceal 46 And others one 
47 Quartets 24 Bounteous 55 Sea: Fr. 49 Part of 26 Ship captured by 57 Card game 

"llwtw is 11._.IIIIVII IIIII AJIIIW. CUI:KBIS farc:llilllrlll ........ now IIIIYill ill a-iel." -GENE SHA~IT 
WNBC·TV •nd the 
NBC·TV NETWORM 

STARTS TODAY!
THEATRE 

l :45 3:45 5:45 7:45 9:45 
Mike at 232-8749. 
'73 175 Honda, excellent condition. $500. Terry. See at 818 Blaine. 
'66 VW Bug, runs well, $300 or best offer. Call Mike 287-3463 after 6 p.m. 
For sale: Couch $20, single bed $18, small chest of drawers $10, 2 comfortable chairs, $2 + $5. 289­
3369. 
\.ised furniture for sale. Call Stanley at 287-0318. 
LOST AND FOUND Lost: 1 make-up bag. Gray paisley canvas with red leather binding. Initials N.M.S. Reward $20. Call 6294. 
Lost: 1 pair of contact lenses In white plastic case between North Dining Hall and BP. Please call Nancy 1272. 
Lost: Notebooks and slide-rule (British Thorntonl from south Dining Hall. Call Seshadri 6320 or 7469. 
Found: Contact lenses, with case near NOH. Call Tom 8537. 
. Large Reward: for the return or Information concerning the location of my bicycle. A red 10· speed Fuji. Leather seat, Suntour derailleur. Taken from 2nd floor Grace Tues. nite or early Wed. morning. Reward will be paid. No questions asked. Steve 1859. 
Lost: gold-wire-rim glasses in black snap-closing case. Contact Pat 8623. Important. 
Reward for return of green spiral notebook and-or Computer Data Processing Book "accidently" taken from South Dining Hall 9-5. 
Please  give  back--no  questions  
asked.  235 Walsh, 8093.  
FOR RENT  

House for .Rent, 1136 E. Sorin. 2 BR, LR, DR, S. Porch, Part. Furn. Jim Licata. 289-7811, 287-8282. 
Attention off-campus renters: 3 BR house 825 Bryan St. Behind St. Mary's College. Available Sept. 6. Can take 4 students. 287-7818. 
House 'Available. Prime S.E. area. 2 BR, furnished, all utilities and cable for 3 students. 287-7818. 
PERSONALS GOLDEN GIRL: GLAD YOU'RE HERE. THE SUMMER WAS GREAT; THE YEAR WILL BE GREATER. LOVE, SUNSHINE. 
Snip, Happy Anniversary. Hope your two years have been as good as mine. Luv, snot 
Hi!! My name is Kevin Mailey, Today is my birthday. I would like a birthday cake. Call me at 272· 4713. 
Tony Hains is so dull that he has been propositioned by several necrophiliacs. 
Ride needed from Mich. City to NO 5 days a week. Call Jerry in evenings at 874-6324. 
For Sale: Ashai Pentax SPOil. Konica Auto reflex T with Vivltar Zoom 85-205 mm. Call George at 277-0021. 
Need ride to Detroit sub. weekend of Sept. 21. Can leave Sept. 19, 20, 
21. Please call Jim· 5384. 
Wanted: Qualified instructor of any Chinese Martial Art to teach student with 11f2 years ex per. Leo 3313. 
Tom Klein Is so short that he plays bandball a lnst street curbs. 
... 

r------------------------------------------------------------~.-------------------­
September 6, 1974
12 the observer 
M. . .ddl d
1mster to rm eguar ; 
dual role for Marv Russell-
Marvin Russell isn't just your "When I was getting ready to the high school All-American said average football player. First off, come to Notre Dame my freshman "Football is a game of mutuai he is a starting noseguard, a year, people would always ask me, respect. I don't got out there with position which requires you to · 'You're not going to say you're hate in my eyes. I play because I think both as a lineman and from Pittsburgh (about 30 miles love the game and that's what it is, linebacker, depending on the game from Ford City) are you?' I never a game." situation. have. The people of Ford City are In fact, his religious beliefs have 
proud of me and I'm representing greatly helped him in sports.
Second, Marvin is a practicing them." Marv continued. "Tremendously. A minister hasMethodist minister in Ford City, 
faith and respect in God. Football
Pa., and has been preaching for While in high school, Marv was 
players have faith and respect in
almost 10 years. "I'm the known more as a runner than a 
the coach. Being a minister has
assistant pastor at my church back defen~ive man. During one year, 
allowed me to have faith in God
home," says Russell. "I also go he gamed over 1,200 yards. 
coach and my teammates." ' 
around to other churches and talk But the Irish sophomore is quick 
"Being a football player and 
to the kids." to point out that he was no novice 
minister .really intrigues the kids," 
at the defensive game. "I played
Marvin is majoring in theology he contmued. "Many people
just about every position including 
and hopes to be fully ordained in stereotype football players--big
safety. Nobody believes that
his church when he graduates. "I and dumb--but I try to show them
around here," the 221-pounder
would then like to work in race that we can do more than just play 
chuckled. "I'm sure all this ex­
relations-not civil rights though, football."
perience at different spots has
there's already enough people in "And it works the other way, too.
helped me adapt to noseguard."
that. I want to help pull both sides Most people think a minister will ., together. Later I might like to "I was a running back ever since always act a certain way. They settle down at a small church." seventh grade. Noseguard is a see that's not true either." 
Marvin comes from a small town nice change," Marv answered While many Christians quote <Ford City is about 5,000) and a when asked if he missed playing Bible verses and never seem to small church and likes it that way. offense. "In high school, I loafed a peek out at the real world from "It was really nice to grow up in a little on defense so I could get their church pews, Marv has a small town like I did. We only had ready to run the ball again." different philosophy. "My idea of about 700 in our high school and Asked if his work as a minister preaching is going out to the people selves. Being a Christian is having about 50 members in our church. ever made it hard for him to play and expressing myself and love and respect for others." OC football You knew everyone." such a rugged game as football, listening to them express them-Could it be said any better? is now
Off-Campus registering interested players for their in­terhall football team. Sign-ups are in the off-campus office, third floor 

Tough luck plagues Tim Simon 
LaFortune (next to Ombudsman) until September 9. Questions, call by Bill Delaney adequately use the other eye and Doctor Urglar did the operation, six to eight weeks, and then will Tom Thompson, 255-5848. do everything I did before." and termed it a complete success." begin whirlpool treatments to get What goes through someone's rid of the stiffness from the knee's Women's sports
Summer vacation has brought As August 14th, the first day of about a few disturbing changes for fall practice grew closer, Simon mind when two unfortunate events long period of inactivity. His Mr. Napolitano is now meeting
such as these happen? "You really roommate, sophomore fullback
the Notre Dame football team. was faced with the decision of with women interested in par­
can't describe it, explained Simon, Frank Bonder, predicts that he will Steve Quehl's near-fatal truck whether or not to play. "The ticipating in Notre Dame Club"for your hopes are so high, and be back as quickly as possible.
accident and the suspension of six doctors, my family, and some Sports. The Crew, the Ski Club,one play can wipe out everything "You just don't tie Simon down in a sophomore players has drastically members of the coaching staff and the Sailing Club are coed, butyou've ever worked for. I've cast. After what he's been through 
changed Coach Parseghian's advised against me playing. The have not yet met with Napolitano.
figured that out of the three. this summer nothing is going to
outlook for the fall. doctors said that for the present, I A women's Basketball Club is in
months of summer vacation, I've stop him from playing in the fall." 
But perhaps the most un­have only one eye that is the organizational stage.
been in the hospital for practically
fortunate event of the summer was operational, and that I shouldn't The Fencing team is a carry
Simon's knee injury may turn
an entire month. It's discouraging,
the eye injury sophomore defen­risk any injury to that one. In the over from last year with Mr.
out to be a blessing in disguise, for 
but it's something I've got to live
sive back Tim Simon suffered in end though, it was my decision, DeCicco and Mr. Hosinski
it may ease his worries over hiswith."
his home this summer. "We were and I had no doubts about my eye problem. "It's pretty obvious returning as the women's coaches. 
fooling around the house one af­playing and representing Notre Ms. Carole Moore has taken over
that someone didn't want me to
With the season now over for
ternoon, and my sister's friend was Dame in the fall." as coach of women's tennis.
play this year, so I'll have to take it 
Tim, his major thoughts will turn
swinging a wiffle ball bat at me," as it is." Tim Simon will be surely Napolitano invites all interestedOn Wednesday, August 21, the back to academics. "I'm in pre­
said Simon. "I picked up a small women to contact either him or
missed, but with his deter­
football team had their first med, and I've already missed astick and started to duel with hm, mination, he will be back next fall. Mr. O'Leary at the ACC.
scrimmage. "I had really felt week of bio and chem, so I am aand the next thing I knew, I was on great coming back and being on little behind. The student-athletethe floor, feeling the ooze coming 

Dennis Chiddister 

Marvin Russell finds a home in the pulpit as well as the lockerroom. 
out of my eye. The stick shattered, and several of the splinters must have gone into my eye. My girl friend put me into her car, and we took off for the hospital." 
Tim spent nine days in the hospital treated by eye specialists. "The doctors really laid it on the line, for they didn't want me to get my hopes up too high. They said my chances of regaining my vision were up for grabs, and that my improvement, if any, would be a day to day thing. I can distinguish lights pretty well, and I do think my eye is healing, but only time will tell. 
The rest of the summer was planned to be one of rest and relaxation for Tim. "I took up golf again, and the exercise and fun it provided really helped. My only problem was m trying to build up some sort of extra depth per­ception. Losing my sight in one eye made me depend on the other twice as much. I really don't feel any different about the loss of my sight in one eye because I can 
Student Union plans Sox trip 
On September 15 the Student Union Social Commission will sponsor a bus trip to Chicago White Sox Stadium. The White Sox will be playing the California Angels and the price is $9.00 which includes 
•· round trip bus fare and reserved seats. Tickets are on sale in the dining halls and are also available at the Student Union ticket office. 
the team again. I was on cloud situation here at school is a tough nine until "it" happened ... " one to be in, but it's what I want. I always wanted to come here, but I 
Tim was back receiving punts never thought I had the chance that afternoon. He broke his first because of the high school team I 
return, and on the second one, he played with wasn't very good. The tore the ligaments in his right coaching staff here was looking for 
knee. "I knew when I was hit, kick returners, and Coach Shoults something was very wrong (defensive backfield coach) of­
because I felt sharp pains 
fered me a chance to come here. 
throughout my leg. I was carried 
Agent

Notre Dame is tough, but I off and Doctor Dodnar examined it wouldn't trade it for anything." 
car after vcar~ semester

and determined I had torn two ligaments that needed surgery. Tim will be in a full leg cast for 
after semester~ the 


Jim Tucker Agent 
Kof C PRESENTS HEARTBREAK KID 
STARRING 
CYBIL SHEPARD 
TONIGHT & SATURDAYl AT 6, 8, 10, 12 midnight 
Adm. $1.00 K of C hall members free 

CollcgeMastcr from 
Fidelity Union Life has 
been the most acccptL'<I~ 
most popular plan on campuses all overAmcri<:a. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union College Master· 
Field Associate 
m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 











