------~--~ -~------­


Freshman Orientation begins 
.. . at Notre Dame •••at St. Mary's 
By AI Rutherford By Terry Keeney and Ann McCarry
Observer Editors News Editor Saint Mary's new student
Extensive campus tours and orientation begins today withsocial gatherings highlight this 

programs for freshman andtransfer students and their
tation Program. Sponsored by the parents.
Student Government, the Centered on the theme"We May Orientation Committee has been Never Pass This Way Again", the working since April, planning and orientationprogram is intended to coordinating activities in the halls focus on the importance of theand with the Freshman Year college experience. 
Office. Orientation co~hairperson Mary Son­
Campus tours for the new students and 

their parents will be leaving from the neborn explained the significance of the circle hourly from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. on theme in achieving the goal of the entire Saturday and Sunday, to help acquaint orientation program. 
everyone to the Notre Dame settinR. 'We havw have found that your college life does pass so quickly, and you should
Un Saturday at 5:30p.m., a picnic will be take advantage of it,' she said. 'theheld on the lawn of Holy Cross Hall for all general purpose of orientation is to maketransfer students. 

the girls feels at home at St. Mary's as "We are trying to coordinate all activities quickly as possible.' on campus to help acquaint new students," 

According to Sonneborn, an importantstated Drew Costerino, chairman of the part of this process is the big SisterOrientation Committee. "We are to make program. Each fe freshman is assignedtheir first days here informative com­an uperclass'big sister' who greets the newfortable ones in which they can get t~ know student to campus. The 'big sister' canthe campus and other people as well." 
best answer many of the questions fresh­On the first floor of LaFortune today a men frequently ask about everydaystudent will be present to answer a~y college life, Sonneborn believes.
questions th~t a transfer student may 'The whole idea is when freshmanhave. Also, mformation will be available comes, she is not alone,' she explained.
about off~ampus housing. This year for the first time in several
Sunday nigh features an outdoor concert years there will-be no scheduled 'mixer'at the Stepan Center basketball courts. A sponsored jointly bythe Notre Dame androck group and a folksinger will provide St. Mary's orientationcommittees. Exceptthe entertainment. Refreshments will also for a concert scheduled Sunday and abe served. 

carnival Thursday, all orientation ac­Shuttle bus service between St. Mary's tivities between the respective schools willand Notre Dame will be from 1 p.m. to 1 be on a hal-by-hall basis. 
a.m. during the orientation period. 
In keeping with St. Mary's tradition, the Regular service will be resumed on orientation program will be culminated inRegistration Day. 
the Madonna Night ceremonies Tuesday night. The traditional banquet will beThe Orientation Committee consists of followed by a religious service in theMark Grove, Mary lden, Tom Webber, Church of Loretto.
Ken Bradford, Mark Nugent, Alice Harrington and Costerino. 
Academic calendar marks earliest return 
By Fred Graver Contributing Editor 

This yearmarks the earliest return to classes in the 
history of the University of Notre Dame. 
The early return is one of the primary features in the 
new Academic Calddar, which was accepted last year 
amidst mvch debate by the Academic Council. 
The Academic council is the primary legislative body in the University, whhch meets in closed sessions to decide the academic regulations of the university. it is composed of representatives,of the administration, faculty, and students of the the University. 
The new calendar is the result of extensive study and design by a special committee led by Fr. James Burt­chaell, University Provost. ­
The new Academic Counciloriginally voted toadopt the new calendar on December 14, 1972. The vote at that time was 20-19, with 28 members of the Council absent. 
Last November, members of the student body began 
an attempt to re-introduce the issue into the Council, in 
the hope that those members who had been previously 
absent would vote towards rejection of the calendar. 
The primary changes in the proposed calendar were 
a pre-Labor start, a nine-day mid-semester break, and 
the maintenance of a 72-day semester break,whicb ­
the University claimed was necessary in order 
to retain its accreditation. 
Student opposition to the proposed calendar was 
directed a· '.three main issues: 
-The Pre-Labor Day Start. The primary co~plaint against an early start is that it reduces the earnmgs of a student over the summer. For some students, an early start cost them· their jobs because they could not remain through Labor Day. 
Burtchaell responded to this charge by stating that the choice of an early start was a "matter of balance." 
Certainly it is important for students to be able to maximize summer income every year, as our expenses increase every year, " he .said "On the other hand 
what is the income earned for? It's earned for the learning experience at the University. If, on one hand, we are persuaded that fatigue minimizes the value of time near the end of the semester, we have to balance that with the fact that starting early minimizes or at least curtails earning power." 
-The Mid-Semester Break. The new calendar in­cludes a nine-day break, from October 25 to November 
3. Included in thiS vacation are two football ~!;ames, one 
at home against Miami on Oc~. 26 and the otherat Annapolis on Nov. 2. 
The University scheduled the break because "A semester without a break is too relentless," claimed Burtchaell. "We feel that in past years, going all the way to Thanksgiving without a break left people too worn out, faculty as well as students." 
"We feel that in past years,'" Burtchaell also pointed out, "that in scheduling the break in mid-October, student absenteeism before and after the vacation would be deterred. 
( continued on page 5 ) 
IIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIImtlllhHI­
Orientation schedules: 
Notre Dame •••page 10 St. Mary's •••page 5 
IIIIIIRIIIIDIIIIIOIIIIDDIIIIIIRHnmHHDDllllftl~ 
~--------~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Saturdav August·24, 1974
the observer

2 
New hall staffs announced 
by Marlene Zloza Managing Editor 

The Student Affairs Office has announced changes and additions to the hall staffs of 12 of the 20 Notre Dame undergraduate residence halls, effective for this semester. 
Seven new rectors and eleven new assistant rectors recently named, have begun readying the halls and welcoming students to their living quarters. 
At Lyons Hall, Sr. Barbara Counts, the new rector, and her assistant, Sr. Margaret Daniels, are finding that orientation is not unique to freshmen and transfer students: both of them are also new to Notre Dame. 
"It has been very interesting," commented Counts, who left a high school teaching job in Ohio to join the Notre Dame administration this year. "The girls are really enthusiastic about the dorms and 
all of us are working at making the hall comfortable, even though we 
~l· ·-· 
'··'·· 
are behind schedule." 
Another hall with two new hall 
staff members i s Stanford, where 
Rev. John Lahey will be the new 
rector and Brother Rodney Struble 
will be his assistant. Both are N. 
D. graduates. 
In neighboring Keenan Hall, 
former assistant rector, Rev. 
Richard Conyers, has become 
rector, replacing Fr. Robert 
Griffin . Griffin is the new 
University chaplain. 
Conyers, is a N.D. graduate and 
an acting curator of the University 
Art Gallery. 
Conyers stressed that Fr. Griffin 
will continue as an "intergral part 
of the <Keenan) staff. All of his 
liturgies will continue, including 
the urchin and weekend masses." 
"We hope to continue the work 
that has been done here in the 
past," added Conyers. "We are 
reaiJy proud of Keenan Hall." 
Two· of last year's rectors, Brother Just Paczesny of Alumni and Fr. Terry Lally of Stanford, left hall administration to work in the Office of Student Affairs 
L &BB t• 

Student tickets 
available for Elvis concert 
Elvis Presley will appear in 
concert at the A.C.C. on Monday, 
September 30 and Tuesday, Oc­
tober 1. Tickets have been 
reserved for Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's students for the September 
30 show. The other concert is 
completely sold out. 
Students who wish to purchase 
tickets for the concert will be able 
to do so beginning at lp.m. 
Thursday, August 29 until 5 p.m. 
August 30 at the Gate 10 ticket 
office. 
Proper student I.D. is required 
and tickets are limited to two per 
person. Any tickets that remain 
after Friday will be used to fill 
surplus mail orders. 

•-•• ••u a 9t& aa1u •••a•dt•~n•n•• 
HAVE YOU THOUGHT 
BOUT EXPANDIN 



YOUR FUTURE? 
Success in a life choice today demands more than ever the right .preparation. Education, of course, is essential. But even_ though 'you complete the requirements for a degree, potential em­ployers are searching for individuals who can rapidly advance into the managerial fields. Employers are looking for LEADERS, and Army ROTC is one of the ways you can gain this 
leadership experience. 
Army ROTC offers that "something more" to the college man or 
woman looking to expand his or her future. 
The total time requirements of ROTC account for little in your academic workload, and no committment is incurred until your Junior year. While you're looking at our program and deciding 1f we can offer you something, we will be looking at you. If we're both satisfied we can offer each other something, upon graduation you will receive a commission as a Second Lieuten~nt in the United States Army R_eserve. In return, you'll be reqUired to serve on active duty for two years. The training, experience, and ability to manage people will give you that . "something more" employers seek. 
Try us--call 283-6264 or 6265, or visit the Army ROTC office in 
Building No. 5. You'll get the facts. 

Paczesny is vice president and Lally is his assistant. 
Replacing Paczesny as Alumni rector is Brother John Benesh, a former hLgh school principal and also Assistant Director of Student Activities at Notre Dame this 
year.  
In  Breen-Phillips,  Jeanne  
Thomas  will  be  rector  and  Sr.  
Susan  Rosenbach  will  be  the  
assistant  rector.  Both  are  ex­ 

perienced in counselling psychology. 
"I believe in this place, that's why I'm here," offered Thomas, who has graduate degrees in 
counselling psychology and communicatio.n arts and worked at 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the ' University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (S14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

St.  Mary's  for  two  years  as  a  
counsellor.  
Rosenbach,  who  also  holds  a  

master's degree in counselling psychology, has found "plenty of help" in getting adjusted to her new job and surroundings. 
In Dillon Hall, Rev. Thomas Stella of Campus Ministry is replacing Rev. James T. Burt­chaell, University Provost, as one of three assistant rectors. 
Other new additions or changes are: 
Badin-Helen Gallagher (rector> 
and Sr. Karen Ann Paul (assistant) Cavanaugh -Rev. Robert Huneke (assistant) Flanner -Rev. Thomas Gariepy <assistant) Grace -William Beauchamp <assistant) Holy Cross -Rev. George Wiskirchen (rector) and Rev. 
Robert Rioux (assistant)  
Keenan  - Edmund  Davey  
<assistant>  
Morrissey  -Richard  Hunter  
(assistant)  

W4=tlcome To South Bend From THE ROMA Your Host Frank Anastasio PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD Now Playing: PLEASANT STREET BAND Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At N4:)rth End Of River Bend Plaza 


CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
One & Two Bedroom Furnished Apartments 
Some Ready For Occupancy. Others Under Construction All Will Be Completed By Sept. 30 
WE WILL HOUSE YOU TEMPORARILY UNTIL YOUR UN'IT IS READY. 
For Information, Call 277·0911 Or Visit Stoneridge Apartments On Ironwood, Just North Of 
The Indiana Tolll ·Road, 
Between 10:00 And 6:00 Daily• 
0 

> 
IBATH 
I~ECHJ 

\\1\Ill 
Hill\ . r-:r J LIVINGBEDROOM
'', 
'· Iro · ......... ----......_
0,~ --l 
D 

TWO BEDROOM PLAN 
~ 
l
S.turday August 24, 1974 
the ob!ierver 3 

~ 
In Lafortune, Lyons, Haggar 

Major renovations underway 
By Jeanne Murphy Copy Editor Carpenters and painters were abundant on on campus during the summer months as renovation plans for LaFortune Student 
Center, Lyons Hall and the new Haggar Hall of Psychology began. Renovation in LaFortune is extensive, encompassing areas used by students most frequently. According to Fr. David Schlaver, director of student activities, completion of the building is estimated for the beginning of the 
fall term next year. 
The Haggar Hall of Psychology, formerly the Wenninger-Kirsch Biology Building, began complete renovation last February. At most there are three to four weeks of contract work before the building is finished, explained John Borkowski, Pschology Department chairman. The building will be ready for the beginning of classes next week. 
$250,000 for repairs 
Lyons Hall was in need of repairs before admitting its first 240 women residents, claimed Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost. Many of the features of the other four women's dorms were built into Lyons, for example, the stove and kitchen facilities. 
Last year the Board of Trustees allotted $250,000 for the LaFortune renovation. According to Schlaver, the work in the original plans has already exceeded the amount awarded. 
Renovation of the Rathskellar was not included in the original renovation draft. Yet money can be found for such changes if the Rathskellar is used by student organizations. 
Gift of $750,000 
Constructiop in the new 
Psychology Building was a gift of 
$750,000 given by the family of· 
James M. Haggar Sr. for whom the 
building is named. 
Fr. Jerome J. Wilson, vice­
president for business affairs . 
estimated the total cost of Lyons 
renovation between $75,000 and 
$125,000. 
Borkowski feels that these small 
study areas are a common area for 
students and faculty, thereby 
closing the gap between the 
student-faculty relationship. They 
are an accessto a personal and 
close experience in learning. 
"The new Psychology Building is 
functional for classroom teaching, 
for individual teaching , and for 
graduate and undergraduate 
research prograns," explained 
Borkowski. 
Germ-free. 

A major asset to the Psychology Department is a germ-free animal research area on the second floor. This germ barrierarea enables researchers to study animals completely free of contamination. Even ! ·.od will be processed through a sterilization unit before ir enters the germ-free area. 
Also on thesecond floor is a 
human research area containing 
numerous rooms with one-way 
mirrors , sound-deadening 
chambers, computers and audio-research units. Experimental and stastisticallabs were built as well as rooms to observe infants and children of the kindergarten age. 
Both Schlaver and Borkowski expressed a desire for student enthusiasm and input in using the facilities. "We must get better use of the Center as a sign that it is worth renovating," explained Schlaver. 
LaFortune 
The primary target in the LaFortune renovation was to relocate and rebuild the offices on the second and third floors which house student publications, Student Government and Student Union. 
"It is not so much a building or the condition that keeps people away;" he continued, "we need more initiative to plan activities." 
Schlaver explained that the task of moving all the publications to the third floor and government offices to the second has essen­tially been completed. 
What was previously Fiesta Lounge on the second floor is now a common reception area for both Student Government and Student Union and small offices for of­ficials. 
Haggar Hall 
Some of the older classrooms and dorms have become the summer haven of bats. These sleepy, furry creatures are relatively harmless if left un­molested and should depart wheb the rigors of education and campus life resume this week, according to Mr. Ed Riley, Director of Environmental Health and Safety. 
He warns that bats will bite if an attempt is made to hand capture them, and a bat bite usually results in the necessity of even more paingul rabies shots. 
When encountering a bat follow these suggested procedures: -First, give the bat or bats ample op­portunity to leave the premises unmolested.-Second, if bats cannot escape the building, they should be destroyed with great care. A tennis racket is the safest and most ef­fective tool for this purpose, or call security for assistance.-Finally, In the event someone is bitten by a bat, they should report to the In­firmary immediately. If the bat can be killed, its carcass should be brought to the Environmental Health and Safety office, room 119 of the Infirmary. 

More projects ment on the first floor of the hall. 
Many questions come in~o play The next project involves ex-involving the Huddle, Sclaver tending the side stairwells to the· commented. For example, what 
third floor while removing the old stairs , thereby allowing more space in certain areas. Schlaver 
estimates that this job will take six to seven weeks before completion. 
No major construction is needed in the Ballroom or the lounge on the first floor . The rooms will be painted, refurnished and redecorated by the end of the fall semester. 
The present lounge furniture wil be distributed throughout the of­fices upstairs. 
Huddle changes 
Renovation of the Huddle will be extensive because it involves major construction, Schlaver explained. Plans call for an ad­ditional extending in the back over the pool room. To do this, "a revamping of the whole service 
area is needed to get access to the back wing," he continued. 
Borkowski recognizes the need for development in the department now that their facilities are in­creased. He stated "We are allowing for growth and expansion throughout a decade. We will meet the needs of students and faculty now and years ahead," he con­tinued. "The building is laid out logically to absorb growth." 
Security for Lyons 
The most important addition to 
Lyons Hall, according to Sr. John 
Miriam, is the safety window 
features put into rooms on the 
Security procedures were up­
permost on the list of repairs 
Rooms were painted and a moveable closet-three drawer ensemble were supplied for each resident in the dorm. As in other women's halls, card-locks have been installed on every door and curtains were placed in all the windows. More than the usual number of vending machines have been placed in Lyons because of the long distance to the Huddle and other areas on campus where refreshments are sold. 
Live-in chaplain 
Lyons will be the location for an experimental in dorm living this year with the establishment of a live-in chaplain. Fr. John Gardner, esc will reside in his own apart-
SUMMER STORAGE PICK-UP 
Monday Aug. 26 thru Thursday Aug. 29 
JO A.M. to 4 P.M. 

All Trunks & Rectangular Shaped Items 
Are At Stepan Center (Rear Entrance) 
·All Furniture (Couches, Choirs, etc.) Are In The Old Fieldhouse LEASE NOTE: ALL ITEMS MUST BE CLEARE FROM THE FIELDHOUSE BY AUGUST 28. 
kind of food will be served once 
the renovation is completed? Will 
the old equipment suffice, or are 
new ultensils needed? 
Another important question is whether the Huddle must be closed during construction. 
Rathskellar plans 
Schlaver believes that the ser­vice might be cut off for a time, preferably next summer when the Huddle is less busy. 
Although the funds have been allotted for this project, the committee is not at the stage for finalizing any plans concerning complete renovation. 
The Rathskellar is in a "holding pattern", Schlaver stated, because no plans have been made to rebuild this room He would like to set up a permanent coffee house to en­courage more student organizations to initiate events. 
Plans for this set-up are un­certain and will not be drawn up until a means of financing is decided and student interest is <>hown. 
Dark room 
The last major building plan in LaFortune is a dark room to be used solely by the publications. The dark room will be located in the old government cabinet offices. Plans have not been finalized as the expense is much more than previously projected. 
Renovation of the old Biology Building consisted of remodeling seven classrooms and a sunken auditorium which seats 150 per­sons. Study rooms and lounges were built for both graduates and undergraduates. 

ELVIS PRESLEY 
In Concert Monday September 30 8:30 P.M. OCTOBER 1 CONCERT COMPLETELY SOLD OUT! TICKETS: $10.00, $7.50, $5.00 LIMIT 2 TICKETS PER PERSON 
IMPORTANT: 
Student Tickets Will Go On Sale 
Thursday Aug. 29 At 1:00 P.M. And Only Until Friday Aug. 30 /Jt 5:00. If Any Tickets Remain At 5:00 Friday,' 
They Will Be Used To Fill Surplus Mail Orders. 
Welcome Class Of '78 
Please Compare Ill 
Before You Buy Or Lease a 



REFRIGERATOR 
Look for these features: 
Look for these features: 
4.6 Cubic Feet (The Legal Limit) Push Button Defrosting Sliding Shelves Work Top No Deposit 
FREE Delivery -Maintenance -Pickup Local Dealer -Student Reps 
economical 
CALL NOW ESLINGER LEASE SERVICE 
287-8445 291-5676 
.=4L...._...Jt!..!h~e~o~b=s~e!...!r~v~e'-!.r_______sa_t_u_rd_a~y-A_u....::g:...u_st~24_,_1_97_4_ ..... " 
1 

~ I 
r .. 
Acting president for SMC
i 
Dr. William A. Hickey has been appointed acting president of St. 
' 
'I 
l. Mary's College. His appointment, effective last May upon the resignation of Dr. Edward L. Henry, is temporary pending the results of a presidential search committee. 
Dr. Hickey was appointed vice 
president of academic affairs in May, 1972. He joined Saint Mary's College, Wilkes Barre, Penn­sylvania, and M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in biology from the University of Notre Dame. His research interests lie in genetics . He has presented papers at in­ternational meetings, and is listed in American Men of Science and Who's Who in American Education. He is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Institute of Biological Sciences, and the Genetics Societies of America and Canada. 

Dr. Hickey has been active in College and community affairs. He served two terms as president of the American Association of University Professors chapter at 
Saint Mary's College, having been a member since its formation in 1965. He has chaired and served as a member of several faculty and administration committees. In 
1969, he was the recipient of the PSpes Unica Award, bestowed annually on the
member of the 
College faculty. 

Art gallery reopens in September 
Notre Dame's Art Gallery has been closed for renovation and will reopen in September with a new schedule of exhibitions, according to Dr. Dean A. Porter, director. 
First showings of the 1974-75 academic year will include major displays of "French Art," "Twentieth Century Graphics," 
"Pre-Columbian art," and "Notre Dame Faculty." A feature of the newly renovated gallery will in­clude a continuous display of "Masterpieces in the Permanent Collection," an exhibition highlighting many of the univer­sity's finest possessions and in­troducing one new work each week. 
Other exhibitions scheduled for the new year include one-man shows by Douglas Kinsey and William Kremer, both members of 

Rice opposes population plan 
Opposition to the United Nation's "Draft World Population Plan" will come from a Notre Dame law professor, Dr. Charles E. Rice, at a world conference scheduled for Bucharest, Rumania, Saturday through Thursday. The widely quoted faculty member has described the plan as "an agressive promotion by the U.N. of abortion. sterilization and con­covering jurisprudential and legal aspects of the population control movement as a spokesman for the 
traception  as  population  control  
measures."  
Rice  will  present  a  paper  

U.S. 
Coalition of Life, located in Export, Pa. Other speakers at the gathering include Americans John 

D. 
Rockefeller and Dr. Margaret Mead as well as leaders from several foreign nations. 



the Notre Art Department, photography shows featuring Miner White and Joe Jachma, "British Drawings and Water­colors from the J .F. McCrindle Collection," "Schongauer to Sch­midt Rottluff: 500 years of German Graphics," "Rembrandt," and a special exhibition titled for "Laymen Only." Porter said the current renovation project in­cludes installation of new parquet floors and other structural changes which should enhance the gallery exhibitions of the future. 
INTERESTED IN 
POllUTION? 
NEED A SCIENC 
ElECTIVE? 
IF SO, SIGN UP FOR MANAND HIS ENVIRONMENT 
CE 2J3, 2:00 MWF NO PREREQUISITES 
RENT A STUDENT UNION REFRIGERATOR! 


Meets All University Regulations 
I. 
5 cu. ft. $55 per year

! 
3 cu. ft. $45 per year Call 283-6244 to order FREE DELIVERY on Saturday August 31 








NICKlE'S 

•

{WELCOME BACK!) 

All l<fNDS OF DECORATOR ITEMS 
• HAt-.10 TOOLS • S"UT1E.RS 
• SPI~DLES 
• PAit'n • PLAS11C PANELS 
ElC. 
WHITE PINE SHELVING BOARD 
Cuf it Oh'/ ¥Jay 
~ou ~ant 
• llAI \.1. T lT -STAIM n 
• COVl::Q lT 
IXJO 
37¢ 

510. l OA!-10 WHITE Pla.16 
46¢ 

, ,t.j ... I '• I ~ • # • I ' • 0 ,', 0 :·,,•' • '' ... ,' 0 ;o o, •· < • 
.. c•.··· •••••••••••••••••••.., ...•., •••". •••ovvwv• ..........I Saturday August 24, 197~ the observer 
Arguments detailed in Calendar debate 
( continued from page 1 ) 
The main argument against the break centered on "poor timing". Not only does the break come at a poor time in light of the footballschedule, but it also occurs when very few, if any, otherschools will be vacationing. Most alternative plans to this scheduled break placed the nine-day holiday around 
Thanksgiving,  when  students  could  be  with  their  
families and freinds.  
The 72-Day per Semester Requirement.  Buetachell  

calimed that. for the University to maintain its ac-. creditation, it would have to maintain a 72-day semester schedule. ­
Early in the debate, those against the calendar stated that they felt it would make very little difference if the University was two or three days short. of this total for accreditation. Student Academic Com· missioner Chris Nedeau presented proof that the North Central Accreditation Association, of which . the University of Notre Dame is a member, did not require 72 days per semester. 
Even more protest against this "requirement" was raised when it was discovered that the proposed calendaronly contained only 71 days. 
SMC Orientation 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 24 
3:00 p.m.·-Parents Academic Briefing (Carroll Hall) 
4:00 p'm.  Traasfer Students Briefing (Little Theater)  
8:30 p.m.  Welcome Program (O'Laughlin Aud.)  
Reception (Regina Hall)  

SUNDAY, AUGUST 25 
10:00 a.m.--Mass <O'Laughlin) 
12:30 p.m.--Off-Campus Briefing (Little Theater) 
11:00 a.m.--Brunch <Dining Hall) 
2:00 p.m.--Field Day Activities (Dining Hall Lawn) 
3:00 p.m.·-Transfer Students Pool Party <Regina) 5:00p.m.--AU-Campus Picnic CDining Hall Lawn) 7:30p.m.--Backstage <O'Laughlin) 8:00p.m.·-Concert on the Lake (ND) 
MONDAY, AUGUST 26 
9:00 a.m.--Freshman (A-Ll Registration Briefing <Carroll Hall) 
Transfer Registration Briefing (Little Theater) Freshman <M-Zl Studdnt Affairs Briefing <Dining Hall) 
10:30 a.m.--Self-Protection Instruction (O'Laughlin) 
1:00 p.m.--Freshman (A-L) and Transfer Student Affairs Briefing 
(Dining Hall) . , . Freshman (M-Z) Registration Briefing (Carroll Hall) 
2:00p.m.--Freshman Survey (dining Hall) Dining 
3:00 o.m.-Academic Open House (Classroom Bldgs.)) TUESDAY, AUGUST 27 
8:30 a.m. -Registration (LeMans)
4:30 p.m.-­3:30p.m.--Transfer Student Reception (Stapleton Lounge) 4:30p.m. 
. & Madonna Night Banquet <Dining Hall)
6.30 p.m.-­
8:00 p.m.--Liturgy and Procession (Church of Loretto) 6:30p.m. Ice Cream Social (Reainal 
STUDY ABROAD SOPHOMORE YEAR ROME PROGRAM 
Convocation For Interested Students &Parents SUNDAY AUG. 25, 197 4 
12:30 P.M. Little Theater ·St. Marv's College 
2:30 P.M. Continuina Education Center Notre Dame Also lnfonnation On: Angers, lnnsbruck, 
Tok)O, Mexico City, etc. NOTICE TO UPPERCLASSMEN: 
1\fcr openings for January 1975 First openings for Sept. 1975 One year of Italian required Apply early 
. --------------·-­
On November 29 of last year, Burtchaell apppeared at an open meeting of the Student Life Council an organization of representatives from administration faculty and students which makes proposals and recommendations to legislative bodies in the Universitv on the aualitv of student life.. 
B~rtchaell began his remarks to the meeting by quotmg from "1Crosson 's rule", attributed to the· dean of the College of Arts and Letters. This rule states "No calendar can be made which will olease everybody". 
The Hall President's Council, which presented an open letter to !<'ather Burtchaell at the meeting, began that letter with their own variation on that rule. It stated "All calendars should be pleasing to at least somebody."
The Academic Council met on January 24, 1974 to, make a final decision on the calendar. The v~te was 30· 27 in favor of accepting the University proposal. 
Diamond ring 
stolen from home 
of Dean Macheca 
A ring valued at $1500 was stolen over the weekend of August 16-18 from the home of Notre Dame Dean of Students John Macheca. Macheca told South Bend Police that the culprit had broken in through a basement window in the northeast corner of the house. 
Police speculated that the burglar was a juvenile because the hole punched in the basement screen to gain entry was extremely small. Macheca said that the burglar passed up an envelope containing money nearby the spot where the ring was taken. 
He said that the intruder also took an eight-track tape player­radio from the second floor of the home. The value of the radio was not estimated. The stolen ring was a man's "pinky" diamond ring. 
After the vote, Burtchaell commented "The issue was very educational and the council be~efited from the discussion." 
"Nest year,"he continued, "we can have a better discussion because we will have experienced it (the cal~ndar . Today's discussion was based purely on conJecture. If people aren,t satisfied next fall, believe me, we,ll know about ,t." 
Student leaders were disappointed by the decision an? some were bitter. Student Body President Denni~ Etienne called the deb~te, "a good performance by a group of amateurs agamst a group of prefessionsals. The Academic Council made a bad decision and they ll realize it." ' 
In an editorial, written the day after the decision the Observer commented, "the crucial factor has t~ be that the administration never took the complaints of the students seriously. Thet failed to realize that the stude~ts had the facts and the solid support of their constituents." 

CLIUBS AND C)RGANIZATIONS 
lm1portant Meeting For Activities Day 
Sun. Night Aug. 25 7:00P.M. 
LA FORTUNE LOBBY 





THE OBSERVER 
Al'\1 INDEPENDENT STUDFNT NEWSPAPER  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Ann McCarry Editorial Editor  NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  
Bob Zogas Business Man~ger  Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob McManus Advertising Manager  

Saturday August 24. 1974 
c;;RAND 
ILLUSION 
___ fred r:~raver_ 



AN OPEN LETTER 
Dear Newcomer, 
Your orientation to Notre Dame should now be in full swing. We trust that from your student-guided tour to your hall indoctrination, all goes well. Certainly words of success, survival, involvement, study and on being one ring deftly in your ears. 
And though it can't quite be said that Notre Dame has been oriented to you, you will be oriented to Notre Dame. 
Itremains for each of you to somehow grasp this maze of tradition. Now curious to men and women alike, the maze will be continuous for four years and just not for your first four months. 
You have inherited Notre Dame-if only presently through association. It's been romanticized, fictionalized, glorified-­patronized. You've dreamt about it and read about it. 
But when the myths, titles and traditions are stripped away, Notre Dame is a very real place with real people, real studies, real concerns, real joys, and real problems. 
You can hide from the real world for awhile, fall in love with the lakes and feel like a true existentialist. But sooner or later, reality will hit. 
You'll get behind in your work, meet people that you dislike or distrust, trudge to class during our ever so pleasant winters, or perhaps even be disappointed by an administrative action. 
If you care that you are behind -or that you are disillusioned, then you are half way there. If fighting exemplifies Notre Dame tradition, it is a fighting spirit and dogged concern. 
An example: orientation. A large number of students, administrators, rectors, hall staffs began planning programs last spring and came back to campus ahead of time, cutting short employment and vacation to welcome you. 
After a while, your newness will wear off and we won't be able to tease you about getting lost in the dininghall anympre. You'll begin to feel more at home as your new jeans fade. And you will understand why some new friends came back to welcome you to a new life at Notre Dame. 
Thereareno possible means of presenting a "clear and concise" picture of life at this University. May those who have considered that assignment have mercy on the writer. It is too much like trying to describe why, exactly, your bed at home is comfortable toyouor the face of a friend has so much meaning. These become intangibles to deal with, and tlhere is really nothing within us to give words to fit them well. I can't even believe that we were meant to give words to these things. Tlhey are sacred and removed from all spirits of the intellect. Leave them rest quietly.after they have passed by or fallen :>ff,like leaves from a tree. 
"But try to give them an ideawhatit isliketo live in this plare, with these people," There is nothing tc say that will be any more meaningful to them than what they are going tnrough now. Notre Dame is just what you are, just as any point along the road will remain just what you have brought there and wriatyou will leave with. Whatever is written will just be another description, an. attempt to re­create what was never meant to be re-created at all by one man. All we have is our illusions, that is what we must live by, and no man shall attempt to give any more credence to his illusions than to another's. Remember that, once you have found a illusion of your own and are attempted to devaluate the illusions if another. 
That too, is far from possible, for we are dealing with so many meanings. 
For one, this place can be like a long, lingering, blues note which at once pierces and finds a home. Or perhaps it will be like the one true stroke of a brush that completes an entire painting. There may perhaps, for someone, be one strong incident, one story, one cast-iron and galvanizingevent that will seal a heart forever to that place. 
And then, perhapsthere willbe none of these things for there are many who are without sense, wthout the proper faculties to find and discover these things. For these people, one can hope for something that will capture them unwillingly, and in the act of seizing them unawares stirs them to notice fully the face of the thief. 
We have here long, loving lines of jazz riffs, combined and gathered together in B, 12, 24 bar solos. We have here complex, stunning, crafted novels of life woven and tangled and patterned in steady rhythms of path over path. We have here immense abstract pain­tings,Jackson Pollack or someone like him, with smearing, soaring confusing and enlightening clashes of spirit against spirit, final inner indominatability against final stubborn steel-like unrelentless souL 
This place, as all other places, is one huge discovery. No matter if what we discover is at first unpleasing and irritating, There shall be, to the traveler, no such thing as a truly bad trip. 
So they walk in and out of the room, asking when the writer will "finish his piece," when "thework will be completed" and they are all children wondering just what the next morning will bring. And thewriter has re:ally nothing to show them, but some scrawls that mean something when set in the terms of his illusion. Like Narcissus attempting to hold the tide still for one more brief glance at her image. But, pe!rhaps, if something along the line has clicked into place things will be working out enough so that the attempt to hold one's personal image towards the light will bring forth a bit more light. And it seems so crazy to think that any of this is reaL 
Which is why it makes it so comforting to think of the whole ex­perience of coming here, remaining for a moment, and then leaving , as unreal, a brief illusion, a magicians flash in the darkness. 
And that, perhaps in the same moment of life, when one man gives up and the other lets forth a joyous laugh, this place will remain tethered between the poles so that we will all be able , for another moment or two, to be able to walk the tightrope. 
Now we are here. Let the celebration begin. 
THE OBSERVER 
Morning !Editor: AI Rutherford Asst. Mornin_g Editor: Jerry Lutkus Layout: Marlene Zloza, Terry Keeney, Don 
Longano,  Bob  Quakenbush,  Andy  
Praschak  
Editorials:  Tom Drape,  Ann  McCarry,  Fred  

Graver, Ken Girouard 
Sports: Greg Corgan, Bill Delaney Controller: Bill Brink Copyreader: Jeanne Murphy Photography: Chris Smith Advertising: Bob McManus, Tom Whelan Typists: Kathy Grace, Katy Sullivan 

~VLLo... MY NAMe iS 
~ 
...WetfOM€To 
MY\1\t)RLD 
We'LL HA\Je Ta KeeP HiM 
FOR A COUPLe OF DAVS ... ...ooes He PReFeR 
Af'RiVAreORA SeMi-PR\VA~ ROOM
??
.. 
Saturday Au~rust 24, 1974 
the observer 
7 


With the new ... 
-




... comes renovation " 
'( ..'.
8 the observer~.·•.: .. __ S_aturday August 24/'·197·4· 
South Bend Briefs 
Police scandal, Charis1natics 
--During August, South Bend has been embroiled in a police con­troversy. Thomas Dutrieux, former a Police Corporal, resigned from the force charging that th(• midnight shift officers were ordl'red to ignore vice violations in a number of blocks in the city. I>utrieux's resignation canw after he and five other midnight officers were transfered to other shifts reportedly because they had made vice arrest. A few clays later. 42 additional officers from Ihe shift signed a petition supporting Dulrieux 's statement. The Police Chief has denied all of Ihe allegations. The Indiana State Polin• have been called in to in­vestigate the claims and to study the amount of vice in the city. 
Former ND Vice President for Student Affairs Phillip Faccenda has been in the middle of the police controversy as chairman of the South Bend Crime Commission, a civilian group apointed by the mayor to study the city's crime problem. Faccenda 's group agreed to continue working on an all encompassing study of South Bend's crime after they were passed up to investigate the allegations of the police officers. The Commission was apparently bypassed because they lack an investigative component and are not staffed. The Crime Com­mission meets every Wednesday night at 7:30 at the South Bend Civic Planning Assn., at the corner of William St. and Lincoln Way West. 
Over the summer, the state of 
Indiana passed new traffic 
regulations allowing drivers to 
turn right on red lights. Turns on 
red are prohibited only at corners 
hearing signs "No turns on red." 
Sister Kennedy gets appointment 
Sister M. Catherine Francis l''ord, chairperson of the Board of Hegents of St. Mary's, has an­nounced the appointment of Sister 
M. Francesca Kennedy as acting vice president for academic af­fairs, effective immediately. Sister Francesca has served the college as registrar during the past academic year. 
She will assume the position formerly held by Dr. William A. Hickey who was appointed acting president in May, 1974. 
Prior to her appointment, Sister Francesca was registrar at Dunbarton College in Washington 
D.C. for two years. She came to Dunbarton in 1969 as an instructor, and later became an assistant professor in the department of education. 
She received her B.AA. degree in English from Dunbarton, her M.A. in clinical psychology from the Catholic University of America, Washington, C.C., and her Ed.D. in administration of higher education from Teacher's College, Columbia t:niversity. 
Hot dog reunion held inNewYork 
Some 300 Notre Dame students 
and recent alumni in the New York 
C'ity area gathered June 5 for a 
reunion--at a hot dog stand. 
The location, Nathan's Hot Dog 
Stand in Washington Square, was 
chosen by the University's popular 
• chaplain, Rev. Robert Griffin who spent the summer as
t 
an ass, .tant pastor at St. Joseph's Church in Greenwich Village. 
While Father Griffin gathered his flo{:k around Nathan's, some 1500 N1 tre Dame alumni gathered aroun{ the Golden Dome for the offici;,. three-day reunion on camp· ·,ending June B. 
--Work on the downtown mall in South Bend--the Riverbend Plaza-­has been completed. As a resyult, there is no longer traffic on Michigan St. Northbound traffic is one way on St. Joseph St., east of Michigan St., while southbound traffic is also one wav on Main St. 
1\iotre Dame Football Coach Ara Parseghian told the South Bend Rotary Club August 14 that much of the publicity resulting from the suspension of six players was not deserved and added that the incident will follow the players for the rest of their lives. The coach admitted that some of the publicity was "deserved in one respect." While saying that the students were wrong because they broke a university rule, he stated that he thought expulsion was a severe penalty. 
· The St. Joseph County Department of Public Welfare, Food Stamp Division, w~s moved on July 12 from the County-City Building to the Welfare Depart­ment offices in the 300 N. Michigan Bldg. Michigan 


you'regoing lf.J use a South endBank Why notFirst.Bank.••• Sooner? 
A local checking account (or savings  But we're also in a pretty good position  
account, or travel arrangements, or loan)  to know that eventually you're going to profit  
may not be one of your top priorities  from using one or more of our 70 diverse  
when you're more concerned with matters  banking services. You've got a long way to go.  
academic or social. We understand that  We'd like to help you get there.  

Putting YOU First is what were all about 
II FirstBank 
-For correct time and temperature call 234-7121 
Ave., handles the purchasing of food stamps. 
The Charismatic Renewal Organization held its eighth annual international conference at Notre Dame during the summer and drewupwardsof 30,000 people. The conference will probably be the final international conference for the group at Notre Dame. Next year, they will •celebrate their international gathering in Rome in conjunction with the Holy Year celebrations. Co-{)rdinator of the conference Kevin Ranaghan of South Bend stated that the meeting has simply outgrown the facilities at Notre Dame and in South Bend. 
Other major summer ac­tivities at ND included the Midwest Mobile Home Show, which was just completed bringing thousands of trailers and particiapnts to campus; the Wally Byam Trailer Convention, which also drew thousands of vacationers in air­stream trailers; and the American Youth on Parade which resulted in hundreds of young baton twirlers 

Soonerorlater, 
Saturday Auqust ·24, J4n4 the observer · . 9 
New department heads named 


Ten new appointments and two reappointments to chairmanships of departments have been an­nounced by deans of the Notre Dame Colleges of Arts and Letters, Business Administration, Engineering, and Science. 
Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, announced seven appointments and two reappointments · •to department chairmanships. Two of the appointments come from faculties outside the University. Dr. Leon Despres, former professor and chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Case Western 
Phones ready 
this weekend 
Student telephone service for the 
Notre Dame residence halls should 
be in full operation by the end of 
"this weekend", according to the 
Office of Student Accounts. The 
reinstatement of telephone service 
is being done on a hall by 
hall basis. The telephones, turned 
off for the summer, can not be 
turned on any sooner than the 
reported date because of the 
possibility of long distance calls 
being charged to phones in rooms 
not yet occupied by the rightful 
students. 
Afew phones are reportedly still 
working at the present time only 
because of an oversight by the 
telephone company. These are 
phones that were in use during the 
summer and not properly 
disconnected. Students having 
problems with phone service 
should wait until Monday to report 
it to the South Bend Telephone 
Company. Those students wishing 
to report ireregularities are in­
structed tl,> call the South Bend 
Telephone Repair Service which 
can be reached by calling 9-114 
from an on-campus telephone. 
Bain to chair ND-SMC drama department 
St. Mary's College and Notre 
Dame have announced the ap­
pointment of Dr. Reginald Bain as 

hairman of the cooperative 
epartment of speech and drama 
bared by the two institutions. 
Dr. Bain has been acting 
hairman of the cooperative 
epartment, established in 1968, 
ince 1972. He served two years, 
1966-68, as chairman of the St. 
ary's speech and drama 
epartment. 
Under Dr. Bain 's leadership, the 
epartment has expanded rapidly. 
In 1969, he developed and managed 
he department's traveling players 
roup, which toured the country 
ith a production of George 
erman's "A Company of 
ayward Saints." He was also 
·nstrumental in the establishment 
f the highly successful summer 
heater program, currently 
ompleting its fourth year. Film, 
broadcasting, and dance courses 
ave been added to the 
urriculum, while the number of 
majors in the department has 
increased ten times since 1966. 
A native of Los Angeles, Dr. Bain 
received his bachelor of arts 
egree from the University of 
Notre Dame, and his masters 
egree from the University of 
rizona. He holds a Ph.D from the 
niversity of Minnesota,where he 
lso served as an instructor of 
peech. He has taught at Regis 
ollege in Denver, Colorado. 
Reserve University, will assume that position at Notre Dame, and Dr. Konrad Schaum, former professor nnd chairman of the Deoartment of Foreign Languages and Literature , at the University of Denver, will head the Department of Classical and Modern Languages at Notre 
Dame. 
Five new chairmanships in the college went to current Notre Dame faculty members: Rev. Marvin O'Connell, Department of History; Rev. James Flanigan,C.S.C.,Department of Art; Dr. Reginald Bain, Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Cooperative Department of Speedn and Drama; Dr.Vincent Lannie, acting chairman,Department of Graduate Studies in Educztion, and Dr. William Leahy, acting .chairman, Department of Economics. 
Twochairman were reappointed in the College of Arts and Letters: Rev. David. Burrell,C.S.C., Department of Theology, and D.r Ronald Weber, Department of American Studies. 
In the College of Business Ad­ministration, Dr. Yusaku Furuhashi, acting dean, an­nounced the appointment of Dr. David Appel as acting chairman of theDepartment of Marketing Management, while Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean of the College of Engineering, announced the ap­pointment of Dr. Ettore A. Peretti, assistant dean, as acting chairman of the department of Metallurgy and Material Science, and Dr. Bernard Waldman, dean of the College of Science, announced the appointment of Dr. Warren J. Wong, as chairman of the 
Department of Mathematics 

Henry to St. John's 
Dr. Edward Henry, former president of St. Mary's, is retur­ning to St. John's University, Collegeville, Minn., where he served as director of the Center for Study of Local Government prior to assuming the College Presidency in 1972. 
A professor of political science, Henry will resume teaching and will aid in the establishment of a new community development major which will also eventually become part of the university's graduate school. 
"I will be helping to plan a program which is designed to liberally educate community leaders for local government, politics, planning, chamber of commerce activities, business and industry, and community relations," Dr. Henry explained. "The program will also serve as preparation for the Ph.D. in more tPrhnical fields," he added. 
Not offered by many univer­sities, this new program is im­portant, according to Henry."There is a great need for liberally educated planners, rather than technicians, who often overlook the human development areas. The new programs will emphasize non­metropolitan areas, rural development, and county and township planning," he stated. 
The former ma-yor of St. Cloud, Minn., Henry will also be engaged in consultant work for colleges and city government. 
Henry will assume his position at the school on September 1. He and his wife Betty along with their children will reside in St. Joseph, Minn. 
ST. MARY'S COLLEGE MUSIC DEPARTMENT 
For Your Singing Pleasure, Put A Musical Break In Your Day. Join A Musical Group OPENINGS AVAILABLE: Music 201 COLLEGIATE CHOIR· 1 Cr. Music 202 COLlEGIUM MUSICAM • {Instrumental) • 1 Cr. Music 203 WOMEN'S CHORUS • 1 Cr. Music 204 OPERA WORKSHOP • 1 Cr. Music 205 MADRIGAL SINGERS • 1 Cr. 
WE HAVE A GROUP THAT FITS YOUR INTEREST AND EXPERIENCE. 
YOU NEED NOT BE A MUSIC MAJOR TO JOIN. 
OPEN TO ND/SMC/HCJC 
Call Dr. Kitto ( 409 5) ·Or Stop By 309 Moreau Hall Before Classes Begin. 
• 



Attention Freshmen !!!! 
Right now, take a good look at 
yourself. You're probably feeling a 
little helpless, a bit foolish, somewhat 
lost and down-in-the-dumps. Perhaps
in the last few minutes you've really 
done something stupid, something that 
you're going to wince about every time 
your 6'4" roommate laughs about it. 
. To put it simply, your se1f-estimation 
m the last day or so has probably
dropped lower than the recent Dow­
Jones averages.
Well, there's no need to fret. 
Right now, right here, on this 
campus, there is a group of people who 
feel a lot like you. And who are a lot 
like you.
The only difference between these 
people and yourself is that they are 
running this newspaper and you are 
readine it. · 
But there's no reason that this 
situation cannot be changed. Why
allow yom self these vile moments of 
self-oity any lpnger... 
JOIN HE STAFF OF THE OB­
r 
SERVER!!! 
We need reporters, typists,
photographers and lay-out people. (We
could also use someone with a good 
sense of humor, because things can get 
pretty rancid around here.)
Call 1715 and ask for the news, 
features sports; and ! managing
editor. ~d you are so-inclined, asJi for 
the spiritual advisor (available to all 
denominations.)
Don't be afraid to tell him exactly

what's on your mind. He was probably 
more afraid of picking up the phone
than you were of dialing it. 
1 0 the observer .. I Saturday August 24, 1974 
Housing Shortage 
Transfers Encounter Difficulties 
Although the number of transfer students increased this year by a margin of less than three percent, the majority of the students have not been able to obtain rooms on campus. The University's policy on housing clearly states that transfers are not guaranteed dormitory space and this policy has been augmented by the shortage of on campus rooms created with the conversion of Lyons Hall to a women's dorm. Freshmen are required to live on campus unless residing with a 
relative in South Bend. 
'we're trying to make the best of a difficult situation, said oreintation committee member Tom Webber when interviewed about the problems now facing 
transfer students still in search of off-campus housing. 

ND Orientation 
~ •. TURD A Y AUGUST 24 
1:00 p.m.-Campus tours for parents. Tours will depart from the circle every hour on the hour. 
5:30 p.m.-Barbeque for transfer students on the Holy Cross Hall lawn 
7:30 p.m.-Official welcome for freshmen and their parents 
9:00 
p.m.-· New student ahll orientation 

9:00 
p.m.-Parent Orientation (ACC> SUNDAY, AUGUST 25 

9:00 
a.m.--Tour of campus for parents 

9:00 
a.m.-General Counseling Sessions for Freshmen 


11:00 a.m.-Welcome Mass (Library Mall) 
12:00 p.m.­
1:30 p.m.--Picnic Lunch <South Quad) 
2:00 p.m.--Selective Service and ROTC information <ACC) 
2:30 
p.m.--Sophomore Foreign Study Program meeting <CCE) 

2:30 
p.m.-Freshman Colloquium (122-23 Hayes-Healy) 3:00p.m.--Mexican-American Mixer (Library Lounge) 3:30p.m.--Black students and parents session (Morris Inn) 


2:00 p.m.-Private meetings for freshmen with counselors 4:00p.m.-­7:30p.m.--Backstage <O'Laughlin Auditorium) 
8:00p.m.--Outdoor Concert <Stepan Center Basketball Courts) MONDAY, AUGUST 26 
9:00 a.m.­4:30p.m.--Private counselling sessions 
9:00a.m.­
11 :00 a.m.--Course Credit Examinations 2:00p.m.­
4:00 p.m.--Course Credit Examination 
10:00 a.m.­
3:00 p.m.--Activities Day ( :aFortune ) All Day--WSND Radio Trivia Contest 
TUESDAY, AUGUST 27 
8:30a.m.­
4:30p.m.-Registration 
Webber is heading a task force 
helping transfer students find off 
campus housing. With cooperation 
of many members of the com­
munity, including the Alumni 
Association and the Housing Of­
fice, the committee has arranged 
temporary on campus ac­
commodations for the students in 
St. Edward's and Farley Halls. 
Webber and his crew are also 
operating an off-campus in-
Free paint 
supplied 
The University Paint Shop will supply students with paint for their rooms this year free of charge. All university colors will be availal;lle. The Paint Shop, located m the Maintenance Building across from Stepan Center, is open Monday through Friday from 9 to 12 and 1 to 4. 
LaFortune 
open house 
The Student Union Social Commission will sponsor an open house for all students in La For­tune Student Center Tuesday night. 
The reception will last from 7pm­llpm and will give students a chance to view the renovation which took place this summer. Music and free Coke will be fur­nished. 
Storage pick-up announced 
Summer storage pick-up will 
take place from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., 
Monday, August 26 thru Thursday, 
August 29. 
'All things, boxes and similarly 
sized objects will be available only 
at Stepan Center, regardless of 
hall' said Associate Student Union 
'Director Ray Carey. 'All furniture 
goods will be distributed at the 
fieldhouse.' 
Space at the Fieldhouse is 
availbable for a limited period of 
time only as it will be needed for 
art classes early in the week and 
Carey urges early pcick-up. Any 
goods unclaimed as of Thursday, 
August 29, will be donated to 
charity. 
'We had originally intended to 
drop the goods off hall by hall, but 
it turned out to be too impractical 
both time-wize and financially. 
Student Union does want to 
apologize for any inconvenience,' 
continued Carey. 'We hope the two 
locations will be readily accessible 
and that it doesn't rain.' 


Directories to be WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! 
distributed 
Temporary student telephone directories will be distributed to all students at registration on Tuesday. The directory will list both home and school addresses for all students and will be reaplced by the permament directory later in the semester. 
The new guide to student life, which includes the University rules and regulations, the Academic Code, the Residence Hall Handbook and Traffic and Parking Regulations will be cir­culated after the first of Sep­tember. 
, ,. ,. ........ .
' . 
When In Need Of A Quick Getaw.ay, 
Call Lois At 

JORDAN FORD 
259-1981 STUDENT RATES: 
Rent A PINTO For Just 
JORDAN 
FORD 
~ 
$5/Day & SIMile (MIN. AGE 21) 
609 E. Jefferson, Mishawaka 
formation bureau in the La For­tune Student Cent~r, providing up­to-{)ate listings of houses, apart­ments, and rooms available in the area. Members of the Baculty Wives Students Relations Com­mittee are also serving as volunteer chauffeurs for housing­hunting students. 
Father Tom Tallarida, new Director of Off-Campus Residence, stressed that all of the houses, apartments and rooms listed by his office have been in­spected and rated comparatively. With the help of off-campus student liason, Tom Wilson, Father Tallarida has viewed all sites listed after July 31st, and has made all of this information available to the transfer students and com­mitteemen. 
Webber  estimates  that  the  
program  has  nelped  ap­ 
proximately  one  third  of  the  

transfers being admitted to Notre Dame this year and feels that the committee has been successful in most cases. Tallarida has been helping these sutdents throughout the summer as well as working with Webber. 
'Most of the female students are waiting it out, hoping to get on campus later,' Tallarida sairl. 'and a number of vacancies ' oped up during the course of the semester.' 
Students are encouraged by the fact that all transfer students on a waiting list of comparable size last fall were situated in on campus residences by the end of the first semester. 
WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $60. CALL C. STONE (219) 636-7189 
A TIENTION FRESHMAN 
Come To Activities Day 
Mon. Aug. 26 
TIME:  10 • 3 P.M.  
PLACE:  La Fortune  
Student Center  

TheAirForce Pilot has itmade. AirForceROIC willhelpyou make it. 
Here's how. Ifyou qualify, the Air Force ROTC will pro­vide the flying lessons. It'll be in a small light airplane; but-you're. started towards the day when you'll solo in an Air Force jet. That's only one of the benefits of the Air Force ROTC Program. Consider all this: Scholarships that cover full tuition. Plus reimbursement for textbooks. Plus lab and incidental fees. Plus $100 a month, tax-free, to use as you like. 
Interested? Contact. Captain Shepherd 
at. Building 5 No. 6634 
PUTITALLTOGETHERIN AIRFORCEROTC 
..-----~---------­
INPIRG fee added to tuition 
-~---------~--~­
Saturday. Auqust 24, 1974 ,.. ··the observer 1 1 
By Fred Graver 
Contributing Reporter 
A new item has been added to this semester's tuition bill. Students are being charged an extra $3.00 fee this year for the services of the Indiana Public 
Research Group ONPIRG). 
The added fee is the result of a petition circulated among students last spring, asking for permission to tack on the fee 'voluntarily,' which would ·give students the option to send m notification that they did not wish to cooperate in supporting the organization. 
5 per cent of the student body at Notre Dame signed the petition. 
INPIRG is an independent, private research service which combines the resources of universities and colleges across the state. According to the Notre Dame director of INPIRG, Ken Hughes, the group is an attempt to 'create a viable and ongoing public balance to the private interests, the latter of which too often hold public sway in our country.' 
The funds collected at each in­
stitution in the state are sent to the 
main office in Bloomington. 
There, they are used to investigate 
and attempt to resolve grievances 
from students and other interested 
individuals. Inpirg deals mainly 
with public issues such as en­
vironmental control, quality of 
housing, and consumer prices. 
'Thw Public Interest Research Group,' according to Hughes, 'hopes to channel the frustrations of those who are willing to voice their legitimate protests so that the concerns of every citizen are amplified more clearly than at present. It is here that the public interest is served.' 
More than two years ago, IN­PIRG had its origins on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses. At that time, over 75 per cent of the student body signed a petitition to add the $3.00 fee to their tuition bill. The project died, though,
when trustees at Indiana University refused to aHow a similar addition to tuition there. The loss of financial support on that campus caused the temporary fall of INPIRG across the state. 
Last year, students across the state were successful in resurrecting the INPIRG project. 5 per cent of the students petitioned at Notre Dame approved of the added fee. 
Over the summer, INPIRG released the results of there ex­tensive studies: 
--On June 27, INPIRG filed suit against the state of Indiana Board of Pharmacy. 'The suit attacks the constitutionality of one of the Board's regulations, which prohibits the advertisement of drug prices. INPIRG maintains that the regulation abridges the consumers' right to know' in violation of the First Amendment of the United States Constitution and Article 1 of the Indiana Con­stitution. 
The suit was prompted by two INPIRG studies which showed tremendous variations in drug prices from pharmacy to phar­macy. Achromvcin V, an an­
tiobiotic, ranged from $1.55 to $4.35 in Bloomington and $1,70 to $6.00 in Indianapolis. INPIRG's complaint maintains that the prohibition of the advertising of prescription drug prices imposed by the State Board of Pharmacy bears no 
reasonable relationship to the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Indiana, but rather serves only to maintain un­necessarily inflated prices for prescription drugs, and derrives consumers of vital price in­formation. 
-An INPIRG study has revealed heavy industry bias in the Public Service Commission of lddiana. 
The report states that the utilities have higher profit rates in only four other states in the whole coultry and proceeds to determine 
ND studies waterpollution 
Water pollution is being fought with air pollution by a team of University of Notre Dame engineers and biologist. 
The interdisciplinary research group, led by Dr. Don A. Lvnger, porfessor and chairman of civil engineering, is testing a novel method to restore polluted lakes by treatng them with flv as h -the 
Campus View not completed 
Only one fourth of the Campus 
View apartment complex made 
available for student leasing last 
spring will be ready for 
occupancy before the start of the 
first semester. Construction on the 
project was delayed but the con­
tractors project Comp letion of 
all living quarters by the end of 
September. Public spaces, which 
include lounge areas and a 
swimming pool, will not be finished 
until a later date. 
Any student who has signed a lease and is unable to occupy his apartment as of this date is being housed in Stoneridge, another complex also operated by Kleiser, the developer of Campus View. He could not be· reached for comment. 
Irish outlook 
( continued from page 12 ) 
three in another, and number four 
in still another sports publication. 
Of course Sports Illustrated has 
yet to come out with its picks, but 
with its reputation for accuracy, if 
ND isn't number one all is not lost. 
Of course the biggest problem 
ahead, certainly not overlooked by 
anyone, is the upcoming season. 
And if Pepper Rodgers, Johnny 
Pont, Alex Agase, Dennny Stolz, AI 
Conover, Homer Smith, Pete 
Elliott, George Welsh, Johnny 
Majors, Ben Martin and John 
McKay have their way the 
problem won't be solved. But then 
again, Ara Parseghian likes it his 
way. 
gray, flakey, air polluting by­product formed when coal is burnt. 
Earlier research has shown that the substance has the capability to free lake water of phospates, a plant nqtrient whrch when too abundant chokes a lake by ac­celerating plant gro wth. I fthe over growth continues for a long time the lake becomes a swamp, then a bog and finally dry land. · 
One of the biggest pollution problems in many stnalllakes with slow water outlow has been the repollution of phosphates from the bottom muds. The chemical is taken up by lake plants and when they die and decay it accumulates in the mud. The phosphate then dissolves and re-enters the pollution cycle. Even if a lake receives no new phosphates through sewate or fertilizer off, the level will stay high De!::Aa.IJSe of this mechanism. 
TONIGHT 
The fly ash treatment ha,s been shown to solve this problem. Not only doe s the material soak up phosphates from the water like ~ sponge, but also a two-inch thick application of the material to the lake floor effectively breaks the repollution cycle by sealing the bottom muds, according to the Notre Dame research team. This prevents the phosphates from seeping back into the water.. 
Power plants and other in­dustries burning coal usually are wiling to give the fly ash away since it frees them of a wale disposal problem. According to the researchers the only major cost involved is in transporting the material to the treatment site. 
After preliminary studies at s Stone Lake near CAssapolis, Mich. and a farw .smrul.n..~r Ind. tbe Note DAme 
I:!).'I'UUI;LU:ll'(, its firSt 
reclamation mE~tnClQI 
EASt, an 18 
m~e private lake 
In.iana. 
Starring r·:_,,,._,,; (Henry Winkler) of "American Graffiti" TV's "HAPPY DAYS" 
·Tonight One Night Only 
.A Special Showina of "GROOVE TUBE. at 8:00 SpecialStudent Price· ht SLSO 
why this situation exists in In­diana. Some of the questions IN­PIRG asks are: Why are the utilities in Indiana allowed to earn such profits? Where does all this money go? Who controls the Public Service Commission? 
The report concludes that the utilities have"captured" the Public Service Commission and made ti their commission; the utilities make so much money because the commission has neglected to question the claims of the utilities when they ask for rate increases. 
The report states in one of its conclusions: "The Public Service Commission of Indiana has failed to do its job-{)r rather it has only done If.! of its job. It has worked very well at protecting the profits of the utilities of Indiana, and has given them one of the highest returns on their investment of any of the utilities in the country. But it has failed miserably to protect the interests of the consumers of In­diana, who pay some of the highest rates in the country for their electric service, and who pay totally outrageous rates for their telephone service." 
-In a recently disclosed study, INPIRG has charged that state employment agencies are guilty of sex discrimination in their release 
S]fuo'tenee .1 
CJ}f{/h · ~~i~~tr~Jl',i; 
and his Champagne Music ..63,, ·-,i
51

Mon~:;11 ~:~:;~ 26JJ i? 
8:00 p.M. ·'t.·l I)' 
On Stage! In Person! 
Athletic &Convocation Center 
Only $4.50 Tickets Available 
Freshmen & Their Parents Cordially Invited 
YEARBOOK THE DOME 
Staff Needed 
(Especially Freshmen!) 
DEPARTMENTS: 
Sports Student Life Seniors 
Organizations Photography 
CALL 2111 OR 7524 
of job information. The results are 
.based.on the work of two INPIRG 
Ihvesttgators who posed as job seekers and requested job in­formation from state and private employment agencies around the state. With the exception of their difference in sex, thetwo resear­chers had identical job qualifications and employment histories. Their resumes were the same, and they both had been trained to give identical responses during job interviews. 
Despite this similarity, the two were not offered the same kind of jobs. 
As a result of its investigation, INPIRG is recommending that the state organizatons which are responsible for licensing and overseeing the employment agencies, such as the Indiana Department of Revenue, begin to do their job. 
INPIRG is also beginning to call for the employment agencies to have a stringent policy of self­regulation and internal education about their responsibilities under the Equal ·Employment . Op­portunity Act. 
Students interested in working on the INPIRG project should watch for public announcements of their first organizational meeting for this year, to be held early in September. 


\ 
1~2~-~t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r_____~s:..::a.;....tu_r_da__.v_A_I!9~~! 24. 1974 
Summer woes darken ND hopes 
by Greg C'organ 
.. 
Sports Editor 
-' 
Bullock: Clements to Demmerle If he can't do it one way, he'll do it the other. Quar­terback Tom Clements has last year's leading ground-gainer Wayne Bullock and leading receiver Pete Dermele again at his disposal this year. 
Greg Corgan=======================================================:====::===========================================================================================================================--========= 
The Irish Eye 






