On The Inside 
Cinema Schedule ... page 6 Food Service ... page 3 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, September 4, 1974
Vol. IX, No, 5 

Carney '74 

Freshman orientation concluded 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 
Carney '74, the freshman orientation wrap-up, was held on the South Quad with its traditional outdoor picnic, clowns, balloons, games, and refreshments. 
The games at this year's carnival included the dart throw, football toss through a tire swing, a frisbee throw fir distance, and accuracy and a water balloon toss. Popcorn, cotton candy, snow cones, and helium balloons were available. The Hash Brown Blues Band and WSND provided musical entertainment. 
Highlighting the campus scocial was University President Father Theodore Hesburgh in his yearly address to the students. He expressed his thoughts on the Notre Dame students changing the world. 
"It is always a great feeling to stand on this mall and see so many of you, and I can't help but think that in this group there are people who are going to change the world," he commented. 
Then Fr. Hesburgh recalled this past summer when freshman Boni Burton was killed in an auto accident. He told the crowd about a letter she had written to her parents lat last semester. · 
"Last year was the greatestyearin her life, because she could be herself. She didn't have to be a phony cookie-cutter type that was turned out by the dozen. She could be loved and cared for by a lot of people around her," he continued. 
Fr. Hesburgh stressed Boni's ·thought of 'becoming somebody' as a theme for starting the year at Notre Dame. He told the students to "be somebody that is you, and somebody that is going to make the iworld a little bit different." 1 
At the conclusion of his speech, Fr. Hesburgh said, "1 like to think that this group of Notre Dame people is one of the great hopes as I look out to the world today with its million problems. All of these problems can be handled if each one of us tries to do something. You can change the world if you want to." 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin also made an appearance at Carney '74. A key point in his speech was that the Birch Bayh organization has said that students can register to vote in their home state and Indiana as long as they vote in only one state per year. 
McLaughlin is also looking into bussing students to Michigan and a wholesale food program for off­campus students. Also, a coffeehouse will tentatively open September 13 in LaFortune's Rathskellar. 
The winners of the 1974 WSND "Name that Tune" contest were announced. First place was Mike "Tunes" Murphy, second Marge Meagher, and Third Rob Sobanski. Prizes were gift certificates to Gilbert's. 
Mark Grove and Mary Iden, co-chairmen for Carney '74, said the carnival went "surprisingly well. The weather held up and everyone seemed to be enjoying themselves," stated Iden. 
other activities in this year's oreintation included movies and a concert at Stepan center, campus tours, activities day and activities night. 
"The transfer program was more extensive," stated Grove. "A special off-campus housing office was set up to aid the transfers and also a breakfast and pic­nic." 

Faculty Senate outlines salary increases 
by Pat Flynn the unrestricted gift income for Senate eliminating the facts concerning specific problems Chairman)
Staff Reporter last year was transferred to the requirement for University which will be written up in reports Committee on the Status of the University Endowment. Press's Presidents to come from-the Holy and presented to the Faculty Faculty: (Leslie Martin, Chair­report presented the possible Cross Order. Senate at large. The Senate will man)
The Faculty Senate 'Committe~; alternative of using part of these then prepare a referendum stating Liason Committee to the Board of on Recent Budgets outlined funds to raise faculty income up to The Faculty Senate agreed to its status on each issue in question. Trustees: (William McGlinn,
yesterday a plan by which Notre cost of livin9: standards. -Chairman)
take up this discussion in more
Dame professors could receive Committee on Collective
detail at the follow-up meeting of After Cushing's statement .the
substantial pay raises. The plan A letter by Business Affairs Bargaining.
the Senate to be held next week. committees were introduced;which would return salaries to a Vice-President, Fr. Jerome Wilson 
Ad hoc committees appointed over 
cost of living level equivalent to challenging the report was passed the summer were introduced to the Committee on Recent University
that of 1971 was discussed at the out during the meeting. A<Ccording Cushing also reported that let­
rest of the Senate and their func­Budgets: (Irwin Press, Chairman) 
Faculty Senate meeting in the to Wilson, the present n million ters of condolecence had been sent 
tions. described. Committee on the Legal Im­
Cer ter for Continuing Education. dollars in the University en­to the next of kin of Fr. Durames
plications of Religious Preferences 
dowment is far below the aoo to 500 and Frank O'Malley by the
in Employment>: Robert Vasoli,
million dollars needed to undergrid Senate. In addition, the Seante
Professor Irwin Press pointed Chairman Cushing explained Chairman)
oresent University operations. that these committees were donated fifty dollars to the Student 
out that the figures for the net fund Committee on the Appointments
organized as a vehicle to express
increase contained in the and Promotions Process: (James Merit Scholarship and the Notre 
University 1972-73 Financial Discussed briefly it the meeting dissatisfaction with administrative Cushing, Chairman) Report were manipulated. Ac­was the byraw amendment policies last ye:::.. . Over the Committee on the Budget Review Dame Juggler in memory of the cording to Pt·ess, the entire sum of proposed last year by ihe Faculty summer, ihe corn,·.-:· .. ~es ;athered PriJDOsal: <Dennis Dugan, two renowned Professors. 
Wednesday, September 4, 197-t
the observer 

warld 

briefs 
ADDIS ABABA <UPI) -Soldiers shot and killed Dejazmach 'tsehayu Inquselassie, a former Ethiopian provincial governor and close friend of Emperor Haile 'Selassie, when he resisted arrest, the armed forces said Tuesday. 
NEWARK, N.J. <UPI) -Police clamped a curfew on minors in this troubled city Tuesday night after sporadic looting and rock throwing erupted in a predominantly Hispanic neighborhood already wracked by two nights of violence. 
CLEVELAND <UPI) -Police arrested 14 members of the Hell's Angels motorcycle gang afere some 40 shots were fired at police and members of three black families at a barbeque on the city's east side Monday. 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -Former Attorney General John N. Mitchell, arguing that prospective jurors could not become any more prejudiced against him than they already are, asked Tuesday that the Watergate cover-up jury not be sealed away during the upcoming trial. 
BOSTON CUPI> -Massachusetts health officials Tuesday renewed their warning against shellfish harvesting in a broad area on the northern New England coast after four persons were stricken with paralytic shellfish poisoning. 
an campus taday 
5 and 7 pm -film, "young and be damned," sponsored by black 
studies, engineering aud., free 

~: 30 pm -meeting, nd sailing club--for new memebers, engineering 
bldg. rm 264 

7:30 pm -culture series, american scene oreintation, carroll hall 7:00pm -meeting, circle K club meeting, bp basement 
8:00 pm, meeting, pre-law memebership meeting, lib. aud. 
11:00 pm-liturgy, south quad liturgy program, walsh chapel 
" 
I 
I 
• 



I Senior plX f 
' 
r Chris Burger, senior editor of the 
I 
r 1975 Dome, announced Monday that senior pictures will be taken from Monday, September 9, through Friday the 13th. A photographer will be on campus 
r FCA to hold 
[ 

first meeting 

The Notre Dame chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes
f <FCAl will hold its first meeting of the school year in Room 124 of Hayes-Healy Center at 7:30 on Thursday, September 5. Fr. Terry Lally, Assistant Vice-President of Student Affairs, will speak briefly at the meeting. FCA is non-denominational and seeks to help athletes who wish to live richer Christian lives. FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes with the hope that this will be shared with the larger community. All those interested in becoming involved in FCA or seeking further information about FCA are invited to attend this and future meetings. Additional information about FCA can be obtained by contacting Jim Early at 283-1434. 

lor Dome 
from 9a.m. to 1 p.m., and from 2 to 
6 p.m. to complete photographing 
the senior class. 
Appointments will be taken in 
the dining halls form 5 to 6:30p.m. 
this Wednesday, Thursday, and 
Friday; or by calling 7258 between 
7 and 9 the same evenings. 
Burger expressed hope that all 
senior understand that in order to 
be included in the yearbook, all 
Seniors must be photographed by 
September 13th. 
Seniors who have not yet been 
photographed will be charged a ten 
dollar fee. Seniors wishing· to be 
rephotographed must pay three 
dollars. Those who have not as yet 
returned proofs should inform the 
Dome of the pose selected, and 
return the proofs to Delma Studios. 
All inquiries should be directed to 
Chris Burger at 7258. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester extept vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Votes persuade legislators 
Students initiate changes 
by Paul Young 
Staff Reporter 

A change in the new alcohol 
regulations affecting the Notre 
Dame community must be sparked 
by the students, according to 
University Counsel Phillip Fac­
cenda and law school professor 
David Link. 
Faccenda stated, in an Observer 
interview, that "intelligent student 
protest to local legislatures is a 
way to change the law. " He also 
suggested local legislators 
dependent on student votes might 
be inclined to listen to such 
arguments. 
The University Counsel added that these student efforts might be coordinated with administrative efforts to change the situation. The administration, he stated, "could not make a public argument since its position of administrative responsibility and compliance to state law would not allow it." 
However, he implied, in private that some inroads might be made by the administration if life at Notre Dame was adversely af­fected by the new regulations;. In the meantime, Faccenda con­tinued, "the students should be making their own argument and the faculty should be helping the students." 
In any conversation with state officials covering the alcohol issue Faccenda stressed "I can't say that the students are all stirred up, that the faculty's upset, that it's affecting our whole curriculum and say it effectively without the results to back it up." 
Link also commented that student involvement could play a big role in any change of alcohol regulations. He urged students to "find out what the law is and whether it stands for what the students of the university· want." 
"If it needs to be changed," he 
Meeting to be held for workers 
The Notre Dame Student Government will hold a meeting for all interested in working at the Notre Dame Coffee House on Thursday evening at ,7:30 in the basement of LaFortune. Both new and old members are welcome, and freshmen are especially in­vited. 
continued, "the students should stages of finding out exactly what formulate a well reasoned the law requires of the student and argument as to why the law is the university." He also stated inneffective or inappropriate." optimistically, however, that the 
Link admitted that the ad­"law is a living document to adjust ministration is still "in the early with the times." 


Junior year 
Class formal featured 

A class formal and the traditional Junior Parents Weekend will highlight the year for the class of '76 according to Augie Grace, class president. 
The formal, to be held this semester, perhaps off campus in Michigan, is being planned by co­chairwoman Betsy Kall and Sue Caranci. They are still looking for more volunteers. Other first semester activities include showing the Movie "Catch 22" Sept. 13 and 14 and a bus trip to the Northwestern game Sept. 21. "Those who are considering the trip," Grace said, "should contact Greg Marino, new class tea surer, since only a few tickets are left. Perhaps we can get another bus if enough people contact us early enough." 
Pat Boyle has been appointed Parents Weekend chairman and has the aid of tne sub-committee chairpeople, but "more help is always welcome," Grace said. A relay road race will also be held during the second semester and the juniors plan to work on a bicentennial program with the University Committee. 


Junior class committee members include Augie Grace, Betsy Kall, Greg Morino, Sue Caranci, and Patrick Boyle 
·.::·::==:~;:::]~(:::.·:·: .::.:·.·: . ./:-~::=::?w?r~~~:;:::· . W~tev"tixth• Age, :1.W'Iu.:ltever ~~~· f.'ngth.t 
··· Wtttit•ver thitioshl01t . .. 


MICHAElS,· 
~...·:{'· ... :·...... 
• .will Cn!ate ~ • filt . • • HairJtyte ·~ JultYo~ 



ATTENTION FRESHMEN 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FOR 
FRESHMAN COLLOQUIUM 
TONIGHT 7:00 P.M. ENG. AUD. 
This Is Not Your Typical Dull Lecture Class 
Come & Find Out VVhat An Enioyable Class This Can Be 
' .. . \ . { • { ' t ' ~ I. ~ i, 1,. ~ ' ' • i
.. 
• t '· . .. {'; r r \ r r' t t' r c t'' 'c '''' ~ 
' .. "" ~ ........ " .. ,. ............. . 

Wednesday. September 4. 1974 the observer 
InPIRG reveals yearly activities 
b.v Matt Yokum Staff Reporter 

InPIRG Treasurer Mark Clark yesterday estimated that 13,000 to 15,000 dollars was contributed to the group via the three dollar addition to student tuition bills. 
Clark stated that this constituted about a 70 per cent response from the student body. 
This contribution will go to InPIRG state headquarters in Indianapolis. Most of these funds will be used for legal fees and for the state-wide staff. 
$1,500 to $2,000 will be funneled back to Notre Dame InPIRG and will be used primarily for com­munication, transportation, printing and office expenses. 
InPIRG, Indiana Public Interest Research Group, is basically a student organization interested in 
Whale adopts Long 1s1andhome 
QUQUE, N.Y. (UPI) -Long Beach Louie, a rare 20-ton Right Whale, apparently has decided he likes Long Island. The 35-foot young mammal, thought to be a male, spent the holiday weekend hobnobbing with both swimmers and small vessels near the Hamptons on Long Island's southern shore and, at one point, paid a playful visit to the Quoque Surf Club. 
The Coast Guard station at Shinnecock Inlet reported Tuesday there at been numberous sightings of Louie, both by yachtsmen and persons on shore, since Friday, when the whale nudged northward into the inlet, beofe retreating back to the open sea. The Coast Guard also reported that Louie ap­parently has acquired a faithful pal in a large, equally mobile turtle that has been seen at the whale's side for several days. 
Louie's most spectacular sighting came Sunday, when he nosed up to within 100 feet off shore at the Quoque Surf Club. Lifeguards at first though him to be a shark and ordered nearby waters cleared of swimmers. 
One it became apparent thz shark was Louie the Whale, word spread quickly and some 500 persons gathered to watch him perform. 
Witnesses said the whalt espend about. a hour frolicking in the water, estimated to be about 20 migration but found the 118 miles 
feet deep. of Long Island in his way. Now, 
Among them was surf club of­however, the specialist are un­
ficial Barbara Flannery, who said, certain since the mammal seems 
"He's a big one, about 35 or 40 feet. to have declared the area near 
Really gorgeous." At one point, Shinnecock his home. 
Louie became entangled in ropes 
used to makr of the swimming The turtle sighted with the whale 
area, she said. He tugged the rope has been described as a leather­
and its bouys out to sea a few yards back and about 1000 pounds. 
before freeing himself and then Right Wahles once were very 
leaving thz shore and onlookers common in northeastern waters, 
behind. but their herds were decimated by 
Marine biologists at first thought 19th century whaling and they now 
the whale was attempting to swim are considered an endangered 
north in the seasonal whale species under federal law. 
Hitchiking for girls so~netimes fatal 
by David Smothers reasoning seems to go. But it won't UPI Senior Editor happen to me. 

The girl standing on th(~ shoulder Maybe not. But "hitchhiking is 
of the road may be thumbing her: wav to rape or even death. the major avenue to rape now," 
according to Ralph Page, a In many areas--particularly spokesman for the Dade County,
around college towns-hitchhiking by girls is almost the in thing to do. 
Fla.. sheriff's office. Too often, he It is a cheap way to get around. For pretty girls, it's easy. It can be said, officers "wind up with the 
end results of hitchhiking, which it can also be exciting. frequently is a girl in a field somewhere, beaten, sexually Sure, bad things can happen, the molested, and sometimes dead." 
scary, but for perhaps that reason 
Food rated II,&lOlr • II · 
Food survey results released 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 

The quality of food 
served in University dining halls last year received a rating of "fair" in a survey taken by the Food Service Advisory Committee. 
The flavor of food failed to satisfy many individual tastes and also received a "fair "rating. 
The most frequent complaint last year involved the temperature of the food. Phyllis Roose, University dietician, pointed out that constant heating tended to dry food out. However, servers have been equipped with thermometers to insure that the food is warm. Director of Food Services Edmund 
T. Price further discussed the difficulty in keeping food "hot" to suit all tastes. 
"Change of pac3" meals received the best remarks on the survey. Price stongly favored these special dinners, calling them an "education in food." Roose announced plans for a "Russian Night," and "Discover America Dinner" this semester, along with three steak nights. 
With wholesale food costs up 17 percent in the last year, Price strongly emphasized the need for food ecology. Roose added that while no one should deprive themselves when hungry, wasted food only hurts the students. Board contracts increased over last year, when a deficit in the food budget had to be picked up by the University. Bussing trays also helps cut down overall expenses, said Price. 
To handle any complaints, comments, or questions con­cerning the N.D. Food Service, Price urges the use of the feedback boxes, or by contactin~ members of the Food Advisory Committee. M.embers are Ray Capp, Joe Ftorella (chairman), Mike Gassman, Annie Hawkins, Suzie Nordstrom, Mike Singer, or Gene Thomas. 
DEBATE TEAM 
MEETING FOR ALL INTERESTED 
9:00P.M 

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 4 Room 1-C La FORTUNE 
noc unly the Notre Dame, but also the South Bend com­munity, reported Board Member Andrew Burner. Organized at Notre Dame last spring, the group was successful in obtaining 60 per cent of student signatures in order that the three dollar addition be made to student bills. This past ~ummer they w.ere incorporated mto the state-wide organization. 
Other schoo~s involved in the 
consumer onented group are Indiana University at Bloomington and Earlham College. Clark stated, 'Hopefully, Valparaiso Indiana Central College and Bali State will be involved by next semester.' 
Currently the state-wide organization is bringing suit against the Indiana Board of Pharmacists in an effort to force the advertisement of prescription prices. It is now illegal to post prescription prices. InPIRG has also joined with other consumer groups in filing a petition to block a proposed rate increase by the Indianapolis Power and Light Company. Other projects include the blocking of the legalization of 
phosphate detergents in Indiana 
and the lowering of the state 
drinking age. 
The Notre Dame branch of 
InPIRG has also been involved in 
grocery price survey. Since the 
beginning of the semester InPIRG 
has been encouraging greater 
student involvement through 
booths at registration and at Ac­
tivities Night. 
. Burner estimated 65 to 70 people 
signed up to participate. He added 
they will also be contacting faculty 
members by letter asking for their 
support and involvement. 
Notre Dame InPIRG is currently searching for a Staff Director. The salaried position requires the director to coordinate analysis and research, assist in litigation and serve as an active representativefor InPIRG. 
Clark stated that the organization would prefer a law or graduate student. Applications will be taken at the InPIRG Office on the Second Floor of LaFortune from 1 to 3 p.m. Monday throughFriday. 

. J ..{ Foreign Car Parts Co. 
(!)Parts & accessories for imported car R•ci:;:, for all makes at lowest prices. 
Qistributor 
"************************* 
·:;.For NO Students, Faculty & Staff 10 * *·percent discount with 10 & pur-t tchase of $10 or more. * 
************************. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland So. Bend PHONE: 272-7187 
Be a winner 
with POMPS! Enter now ... 


-------~--~---~­
THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDFNT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  NEWS:  283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471  
Tom Drape  
Editor-in-Chief  
Ann McCarry  Marlene Zloza  
Editorial Editor  Managing Editor  

Bob Zogas Business Man.:::ger  Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob McManus Advertising Manager  
Wednesday, September 4, 1974  

Seniors Barred 
The Senior Bar remains unopened with no definite plans being made for an eventual reopening. Presently under the rule of the Alumni Club, the bar's opening was suspended because of mixed feelings among alumni on their involvement. and the abscence of an alumni executive director to administer supervision. However, the possibility exists for a transfer of supervision from the Alumni Club to its proper place, the Student Affairs Office. 
Student Affairs should press for the implementation of this possibility directly along with a redefinition in purpose of the Senior Bar. 
Operation of the Senior Bar was declared suspended last week mainly for the lack of an assumption of respon­sibility by the Alumni Club and the Senior Class officers. Student Affairs should not make the same mistake. 
The Bar has changed over the last years in its purpose. This instability ha_s aided the management of the Bar. But if drawn within the Student Affairs office, seniors could at least be given the chance for developing a last alternative for socializing. 
In a sense, the Senior Bar should be 
referred to as a Senior Club. Unlike a Nickie's or Corby's, it could offer a unique and special place for seniors to share during their final year. The Club could offer more than a place for knock-down drunk but rather a place for en­tertainment, informal meetings with teachers and friends or a simple place to 
relax. 

But Student Affairs should not include 
complete control of the Bar in their ac­
ceptance of itssupervision. Members of 
the senior class can police their own 
backyard and should be granted that 
responsibility. For-example, ar, 
arrangement with a Student Affairs 
officer such as Dr. Robert Ackerman, 
who has past student-relations ex­
perience as Student Activities Director, 
to supervise the senior class management 
of the Bar would be an effective working 
relationship. 

Use of the Bar has always been 
challenged. However, to deny this senior 
class the chance to affect solid changes 
with the cooperation of Student Affairs 
would be unjust. Student Affair's 
assumption of this responsibility would 
be a service to a part of their con­
stituency and could prove a worthy 
example to the rest. 
Tom Drape 


'I'M NEW AT THIS ••• WHAT'S THE SITUATION?' 
daanesbury 
LLL 5AY!­

E5P£CIALLY IN 70N0 YOV KNOW? I~  
~  
t  

F!RSTrtME 
IN E!Giff YEARS IT HASN'T FELT UK£ WE tVER£ AT WAR!
/ 

V.iJ!ES AN/J G£NTt.EMGN­7HE PR£51/JENT OF THE VN/Te/J 
STAT£5! 
_/ 

Passions of the moon 
fred graver 

"These days I seem to think a lot About the things I forgot to '!o. And all the times that I've had the chance to." Jackson Browne 
Soon, the candles at the grotto will begin to burn in bonfire proportions, as will the minds and souls of the people who turn to inner contemplation and thought. They head down to the lakes, or to some quiet spot where they can sit and think and get away. It's not so much a choice that they make (I think I need some time to think things out) but an urge from the deep darkness within the soul that takes them off to be alone. 
The feelings of insecurity, the change in spirits, the atmosphere of shifting expectations and re-directed journeys begin to take roost again. They return with seasonal regularity, like the swallows to Capastrano or small animals to the good earth. Like the circuitous passages of the moon. 
There is a pattern detectable in the coming of these moments. 
Arriving first is a sensation, a tingling. The feeling that one gets when all is not quite right. There are commitments, promises that can not, should not be fulfilled. 
For some the feelings relate to friends and lovers. For others it is a feeling about their life, their choices of paths that they will walk. 
Second come thestrange new visions. They arrive with a swift­ness of raiders. Sitting in a room with friends, at a meal, alone or out walking when suddenly these alien eyes find their place and settle in for a long troublesome stay. It is a disjointed, alien sen­sation. There are nothing but questions arising from these new inhabitants. "What am I doing here? How could these people have anything to do with me? Where is this place on the road I am travelling?" 
After that, it is only a matter of time before we begin to balance, to register these new impressions with the old. To pass judgement with what we have viewed from the new precipice. 
One wishes from the outset that these visions would leave. If there was a way to remove them, to push them out forever, that supplication would be put into use at the outset. But they won't leave, because these new visions are as much a part of your life and your being as the body you were born with. Though these eyes are uncomfortable and refuse to slide easily into the old sockets, we must find a way ro reconcile ourselves with them, to make a peace of some sort before they bring on impossible craziness. 
Perhaps, if, in the rites of society we could institute a festival, a grand feast of welcome for these demons. A celebration of the gloom that is to come. Something that would inspire and instill feelings of human bonds in this period of life. 
But instead we enter alone, unprepared and uninspired, despairing and afraid. There is no compensation, at the outset nor at the completion, for the exertion and turmoil that accompany the changes. 
Dag Hammerskold remarks, in Markings, that mountains always look much smaller when we view them from the top, after the climb is ended. But it's a long hard climb nonetheless. And there is little we have to ease the effects of the suffering. 
Children are told that these traumas, these pains, are all a part of "growing up". Which is a bit sad because these words imply that after we are "grown up" there is no need to retain the ability to carry through the changes. To lose that ability, to stop expecting the feelings of insecurity, worst of all to stop feeling that the~e feeling are trying to tell yousomething and should be acted upon, IS to begin the slow stagnation and decay that marks our version of the wise and the elderly. 
It has been said that the reason old people become so senile and wasted away is that they have forgotten how they coped with not having all their faculties as children. We seem to know much about "maturity", and reaching the stages of manhood, but when it comes to growing old and wise gracefully there is nothing in our culture that provides for us. 
Perhaps it is a symptom of our failure to grasp life fully that we cannot fatnom what it is to really grow old. 
"There ain't no books you can read There ain't nobody to tell you Just ain't no getting whatever I'm forgettin' Maybe I'm doin' it wrong." Randy Newman 

It is coming upon autumn now. A time of glorious death and the promise of new birth in the spring. Thetreeswillingly give up their leaves, even though they have become more colorful and beautiful than ever. No questions asked, it's time to give these things up. Change is a good part of life, something that visits with the regularity of the passions of the moon. 
Night Editor: AI "the man" Rutherford 
Ass't. Night Editor: Jenny Faust 
Layout: Norman Bower 
Editorials: Ann McCarrv 
Sport: Greg Corgan Bob Kissel 
Pictures: AI "long hair" D'Antonio 
Copy Readers: Pat Hanifan, Tim Bradford, 
Jeranne Murphy Features: Bob Baker Typists: Howard Halle, Neil Vill, Camille 
Arieh, Kathy "Smiles" Grace Night Controllers: Howard Halle, M. J. Foley, Jr. Compugraphic: Junior 


------~~--------~-­

this ones I 
And Nash talking about Young, 'He has we did one for the 
'As far as this tour, 

gotten, from my own viewpoint, to gain a art and the music, one 
great deal of patience and consideration for for the chicks. This one's other people.' 
for cash.' Of course, there is also the thought of the Stephen Stills ten million to tide you over the minor flare ups. However, CSNY seem about as sincere
Spring 1974 

as anyone could be in such a situation when they claim its the music that counts. Crosby: 'It's the best goddam music any of us has ever played --and we all know it.'
Though he was joking when he said it, it is Finally Neil Young has this to say, taken easy to see why many people take that from his exclusive three sentence interview remark seriously. Before the summer tour in 'Rolling Stone': 'I'm having a lot of fun is through one out of every 200 people in the and its getting better every day.'
United States will have seen Crosby, Stills, The irony of the tour is that before thisNash and Young in concert. The tour will year at least, CSNY never had a reputationgross nearly ten million dollars, over ·twice for being that good a live group. When theythe intake of the Dylan tour. The CSNY first were on tour in 1970 they would try to press agents call it 'the most commercially duplicate the three-part harmonies heard onsuccessful tour in musical history.' 
record and always failed miserably. AlsoDespite the figures, CSNY go to great they couldn't seem to get the four guitars topains to emphasize that money is not the work together. Of 'Four Way Street' whichmain factor. 
was supposed to be a collection of their bestStills: 'Even if you write it down word for live work Stills said, 'I hated 'Four Wayword, if somebody wants to believe it's Street', I was embarrassed to put my namebullshit. it's still bullshit. I think it has to do on that record. I thought it was atrocious.'
with everyone realizing that the service we I saw CSNY in concert this summer (don'tcan do each other was greater than how we you other 199 people feel jealous) in Dallas, were doing by ourselves. And without that, July 31, traveling 300 miles to get there. The the other considerations never came into concert was held at Texas Stadium (yes, the
play...That's the difference between 
one with the hole in the topl before a crowdbusiness and art. And we are all four of us of at least 40,000 people. CSNY all prefer to very, very dedicated to our art form.' 
play in smaller halls instead of 'blimpNash: 'It can't be the money or we'd have hangers' as Crosby calls the stadiums andbeen playing these last four years and speedways, but they felt it was the only way making millions of dollars. We could've to satisfy the great demand for tickets. Thecontinued for a couple years but we didn't concert lasted three hours and while it wasbecause we couldn't stand each other.' 
one of their shorter ones, it was still too longEveryone has reasons why the reunion added onto the other acts on the bill.
plans worked out this time. 
By the end about one fifth of the audience 'Maturity,' Crosby says, 'has lessened the had left and personally I felt numb and not pressure between us. I'm knocked out with necessarily in just my head.
how good partners we're being and how The reason CSNY concerts seem a bithard everyone's trying.' 
aimless at times could be due to strongStills: 'I'll do anything I can to make it, distaste the group has for theatre rock easy and pleasant. I don't want to be the <Stills: 'I wouldn't even stay in the samepusher this time.' 
hotel as the New York Dolls') and as a 
add man aut 
vaulted ceilings, 
stunted torsos 
tim walsh 
the town's churches, with the Catholic 
The church stood quietly on the corner of church, St. Brigid, being reduced to Cincinnati Avenue and Second Street, as it rubble. Avast rebuilding program is still in had on that June day in 1953 when a smiling motion. couple baptized an infant son, naming him Sunday Mass at Notre Dame de Paris is Timothy, a name derived from Latin for an odd experience. While the gargoyles "God-fearing man." But it was April now, smile their half-cocked smiles against the and twenty-one years had passed --the monsters of of the medieval mind and the infant was now a young man studying in the choir's te deum floats against the vaulted shadow of the Cathedrale de Paris. And ceiling, the priest's message of notre suddenly, the little church was no more. seigneur falls upon the ears of a hoard of 
He remembered well: how the beamed German and American tourists whose ceiling had been so impossibly high to a Nikons and Leicas are trained on the rosas three-footer, and what did that INRI mean? of the south face. A sign requests visitors in He'd loved hearing the choir sing and the five languuages to "please be as quiet as smell of "holy smoke", and the plaster possible in this place of worship." The sign 
Jesus on the wooden cross fired his young is not seen by the French, who are away in imagination with dreams of being an altar droves worshipping at the windows of boy in those so important-looking cassocks. boutiques. PARDONNEZ MOl MON­But fun, too, was the sometimes stopping in SIEUR, AVEZ VOUS DU FEU? a nearby bar after Mass on a hot summer The young man returned from Paris 
Sundays: Dad would buy him a coke while recently. His father had saved one of the Dad had a beer. But the little church was few remnants of the church: the plaster no more. Jesus, minus arms and legs and cross. The 
It wasn't a fancy church: plain yellow wire frame projected from the stunted torso brick with stained glass windows in the form as he found himself regarding the figure: a of Roman arches, three wooden altars and a disjointed surrealistic Christ. The figure choir loft. Each morning for the best part of seemed to question the bumpersticker their lives, his grandmothers had walked everywhere in evidence <XENIA LIVES) the short blocks there from their homes for with a Socratic "Does it?" He found himself Mass. No more. near tears: for disheartened grandmothers 
A tornado swept through Xenia, Ohio who could no longer walk to a new out of <Xenia being Greek for hospitality) on town church, for a fate that would destroy April 3, 1974, killing more than 30, injuring the church and leave the nearby bar, but thousanc!s, and doing more than $200 most of all, for his own wonder and in­million in property damage. Some have nocence, lost somewhere between the cash called it the worst such disaster in U.S. registers of K-marts and the nihilism of history. Among the casualties were six of European chic. 
Wednesday, September 4, 1974 the observer 
5 

for cash 
by john zygmunt 

reaction to this they consciously avoid for his solo spot at least three years. And building to any peaks and instead 'play what Crosby did 'Triad' and 'Lee Shore' which is they feel.' Unfortunately in Dallas this did straight off 'Four Way Street.' In short, not include 'Suite: Judy Blue Eyes' which I what they seem to be admitting is that am told was the highlight of many other nothing much has been happening leately. concerts. This would not be so disconcerting except 
Itwas festival seating and I spent the first , the new material presented at the concert part of the concert down in front not ten was not the level one might expect. Young's yards away from the elevated stage. · 'Don't Be Denied' was very good and However after about an hour of this 'Human Highway' had some possibilities mingling with the 'Quaalude freaks', what but 'Love Hard Blues' sounded like someone Crosby calls people who sit-stand in front, I trying to write like Neil Young used to. Stills went up to be with the human beings that did two latin flavored rodkers which seem to were there. contain his old energy but little of his 
The impressions I carried away from the melodic inventiveness. Crosby attempted concert were away from the were not one new song 'Carry Me' which was so always up to my expectations. There were a trivial it's almost non-descript. Nash also number of things to be admired. For one the did but one new song mentioned above, and musicianship of the group is excellent. Two · when the time came in the final electric set of Stills' numbers 'Love the One you're for him to do a new song like the others had With,' and 'Black Queen' were done elec­instead we got another rendition of 'Pre­trically with a power that I doubt anyone downs.' thought those songs possessed. Still's also provided with help from the other three on What I am trying to say in all this is while harmony, (in one of the few times the the tour proved what a supreme position harmony worked) the best ever version of CSNY had in folk-rock, it still remains to McCartney's 'Blackbird.' be seen whether they can replace them­
Crosby's voice is still clear and pure, selves. In other words, just how viable is something you can't say anymore about Nash CSNY as a functioning group? or Stills. Nash provided two of the highlights of the concert with an emotional version of 'Southbound Train' and a beautiful as yet It takes a certain amound of courage to do untitled love song which could be the 'Our this, and many people close V The Beatles House' of the new CSNY album. And Young say it is their fear of failure , doing what clearly dominated the stage with a presence CSNY is attempting that is keeping them that has to be felt to be appreciated. apart. 
However, there were also a number of At any rate, an album tentatively called things wrong. Nash, except for the above "Human Highway" is planned for mentioned moments, was outstandingly production this fall. They say it should mediocre. His songs from the past four contain about 14 songs, most of them by Neil years simply do not stand with the other's Young. efforts and even his own CSNY work. After that the future of CSNY is again 
And listen to the songs the other three did cloudy. "My guess," Crosby says, "is that during their respecctive solo parts. Young we won't stay together. We'll make an did 'Out on the Weekend' and'Old Man'from . album and not stay together." Some of the 'Harvest' an album of two years back,-Stills best moments in popular music belong to did 'Change Partners,' 'Know You Got to them. Let's hope the magic keeps coming. Run' and 'Work Game' Which he has used 
I i 

sadness in the sea 
by norma powe riley 

There is a sadness in the sea tonight As tho it said goodbye to springtime dreams. Its song is heavy. falling as a blight 
Over my blissful moments, and it seems To steal away the sunshine from my heart As tho I stood somehow alone, apart From all the merry throng that pass along Thr highway to the valley down below·­The valley where the purple asters grow 
And where the night seems filled with mirth and song And yet I know the starlight that gleams above The valley's lights ore but illusive love. 

the observer Wednesday, September 4, 1974
6 

,· 
•

Dean begins pr1son sentence 
WASHINGTON UPI -John W. Dean III went to prison Tuesday for his role in the conspiracy to cover up the Watergate bugging scandal -a plot in which he con­tends Richard Nixon himself was prime participant. 
Wearing dark glasses and surrounded by a half-dozen federal marshals, Dean surrendered at the 
U.S. courthouse where, in a few weeks time, he will be a star prosecution witness at the cover­up trial of six former White House colleagues accused of conspiring to 
hush -up the scandal. He had nothing to say to a swarm of reporters and photographers who had waited six hours in a sweltering Washington sun for him to arrive. His words were barely audible when asked if he felt Nixon. too, should go to jail. 
'I have no comment on that,'Dean said, his face grim. 
The 35-year-old Dean, once Nixon's White House counsel and now his chief accuser, pleaded guilty last fall to a single count of conspiracy to obstruct justice and was sentenced Aug. 2to from one to four years in prison. U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica gave Dean a month to get his affairs in order before going behind bars. 
Marshals whisked him away to an undisclosed location in the Washington-Baltimore area where hi will be kept until he is no longer needed as a witness by Watergate prosecutors. The remainder of his term is expected to be served at a federal prison camp at Lompoc, California. 
Due to go on trial Sept. 30. ac­cused of cover-up plot are former 



Film variety stressed 
Cinema schedule posted
by Ellen Syburg Staff Reporter 

Cinema '75 Series Co-director Tom McGinty yesterday an­nounced the films scheduled for the year. 
In discussing the goals behind the series that he and co-director 

Bill Wylie have compiled McGinty stated, "Our main objective is to create a high level of ap­preciation for film." 
McGinty said they have tried to gather the best in both directing and acting as represented in dif­ferent types of film: mystery, comedy, musical, drama and foreign productions. 
The series revolves around four themes: American film directors (Orson Welles, Fred Zinneman, Howard Hawkes), foreign film directors <Frederico Fellini, Ingmar Bergman, Roman Polanski) and contemporary films (The Way We Were, American Graritti, Siddhartha). The fourth aspect of the series is the special festival which will examine in some detail a particular type of film. 
The two slated series are an Alfred Hitchcock festival and one of literary adaptations. 
McGinty stated, "We feel that those who attend the entire series will see film as it serves as en­tertamment. cultural statement and as an art form." 
Patron cards for the first semester series, at a cost of $5.00, will be available in the Saint Mary's Dining Hall, the South Dining Hall and the Cultural Arts Commission office on Thursday and Friday, Sept. 5 and 6. 
Cinema '75 Fall Semester Aug. 28-29 Five Easy Pieces Sept. 9-10 The Stranger Alfrt"d Hitchcock Film Festival 
Sept. 22 Sept. 23 Sept. 24 Sept. 25 
Sept. 26 
Oct. I0-11 
Oct. 15-16 

Oct. 22-23 
Nov. 5-6 Nov. 14-15 Nov. 19-20 Dec. 5-6 
Dec. 10-11 
The :19 Steps Spellbound Foreign Correspondent Shadow of a Doubt 
Dial M for Murder 
Siddhartha Shoot tht" Piano Player 
81~ 
On the Waterfront A Man for All Seasons Knife in the Water Tht> Way We Were 
Tht" Producers 

Those purchasing patron cards will be entitled to a film booklet containing reviews of the series' films. These will be available at the showing of Tht" Stranger, Sept. 9 and 10. 
Admission to a single film will be $1.00 throughout the series. 
:*:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::~., 
SENIOR PICNIC 
Saturday, Sept. 7th SMC Dining Hall field 4:00pm-10:00 
hot dogs and fREE sEER 
music bv: WIND
l21 1.0. Requ.ired I 
~~:===;==:==:===;=:::::===:=:::=:::;~~=~=~=~===~=~::::::::::::::::::-:::::::::~:=i::~:::::,:::c:::::~:~::l:!:\:~=:l:!:C:!:!:l:!:t::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::~~== 
White House or Nixon campaign aides H.R. Haldeman, John D. Ehrlichman, John N. Mitchell, Gordon C. Strachan, Robert 0. Mardian and Kenneth W. Parkinson. The same grand jury that indicted them last March also 
unanimously named Nixon an unindicted co-conspirator; Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski is weighing whether to seek Nixon's indictment for criminal offenses now that he is a private citizen. 
Though federal officials would 
not say where Dean would be in­
carcerated at first, a number of 
ther Watergate figures have been 
kept in protective custody at Ft. 
Holabird in Baltimore. 
Except for his escort of mar­shals, Dean was alone when he arrived at the courthouse, dressed 
Cinema '75 Spl"ing Semester
<tentative list)
:.:: :·," ~:.::::·:,::.::. 
Feb. 13-14 Summer Wishes, 
w'"'" 0 "•m• 

Literary Adaptations Festival 
F•b. 23 Th• Hmt is a Loo•ly i 
Hunter * 
To Have and Have Not :
Feb. 24 
Feb. 25 The Last Hurrah Feb. 26 The Loved One 
Feb. 27 Between Time and Timbuktu 
March 13-14 The Sting March 18-19 The Last Laugh April 8-9 It Happened One 
Night April 22-23 Rashoman 
in a gray suit, light blue shirt, dar~ tie and black wing-tip shoes. Neither his lawyer nor his wife, Maureen who was at his side constantly through his dramatic testimony 14 months ago before the Senate Watergate committee accompanied him. 
Marshals have been guarding the Deans at their 110,000 dollar hilltop home near Beverly Hills California, for months. Disbarred from practicing law as a result of his plea of guilty to a felony, Dean has turned to writing and repor­tedly has nearly finished a novel of Washington politics. 

Close Nevada primaries decides nominations 
RENO, Nev. UPI-Former Gov. Paul Laxalt, who led a party seep in 1966, Tuesday was favored to win the Republican nomination for the seat being vacated by retiring Democratic Sen. Alan Bible in the Nevada primary election. 
Officials predicted 58 per cent of the 222,000 eligible voters would turn out. The weather was hot and fair, but some afternoon thun­dershowers were forecast. 
Laxalt, now a hotel-casino owner in Carson City and an attorney, caused some grumbling among the 
!***********+**********************t 
; t
ircx:L< 'N roIL IiveSj 
~ '
i as student union presents 
~ 
* 
~ 
~ !~ 
party faithful when he decided to bow out of politics after one term as governor, but he figures to win the nomination over Sam Cavnar and James .. Talbert, both of Las Vegas. 
On the Democratic side, Maya Miller, an oil millionaire who favors cutting the depletion allowance to oil companies, battled Lt. Gov. Harry Reid and tax consultant Dan Miller. Reid was favored but some observers said Mrs. Mi~ler was closing strong in the wamng days of the campaign. 

SHA N1\.  N  ~ ~  
I"'.  ~  t  
~  
special guest:  Fresh Flavor  :t -tc. 

Saturday, Sept. 28. 8:30p.m.: Tickets: $5.50, $4.50, $3.00 !-te-te 
: 

,--------------------~~~{=*=*=*=*=*=*~*~***************+************ 
SCHOLASTIC 
STUDENT MAGAZINE 
General Meeting Tonight 9 pm 4th floor LaFortune 
All old and 
new personnel invited. We 
need people for all positions 
ON SALE: -tc

* T 0 DA Y from 9to 5, -tc : ACC Ticket Office.(gate 10) !* -tc 
: and From I :3 0 to 5 :0 0 ! : Student Union Ticket Office t* -tc
* (LaFortune Student Center). -tc
* -tc
* • 
---· 

Wednesday. September 4 1974 the observer 
7 

Ford delays amnesty decision 
Ford mulled over the question leaning toward a plan to permit the time.' 
high post in the national party.

WASHINGTON UPI -President 
during his weekend at Camp war resisters to work their way Ford began his day by con­
terHorst also announced that the 

Ford has postponed until possibly 
David, Maryland, and met back into society, which he ferring with Gen. Alexander M. 
President had signed a sup­

early next week a decision on how 
Saturday with Attorney General described as 'earned re-entry.' Haig, his chief of staff. He also bact 
plemental appropriations request

to offer conditional amnesty to 
William B. Saxbe and Defense The President devoted most of a round of political meetings with 
for the Atomic Energy Com­

military deserters and draft Secretary James R. Schlesinger on Tuesday to the economy, meeting leaders of the Republican National 
mission for the 1975 fiscal year,

evaders, the White House reported how to proceed with granting 
with Councellor Kenneth Rush, L. Committee and with Richard D. 
including $55 million for nuclear

Tu.esday. amnesty conditioned on a period of William Seidman, executive Obenshain, chairman of the 
weapons testing and $18 million for 

public service. terHorst said the director of the upcoming economic Virginia Republican party who is 
improvement of nuclear

Press Secretary J.F. terHorst President may not reach a final summit, and Alan Greenspan. He reported under consideration for a 
materials safeguards.

told reporters that Ford had hoped decision until Monday or Tuesday. also called in all his economic to reach a decision this week, but 
advisers. decided to confer further with The press secretary gave no terHorst said he does not know 
Pentagon and Justice Department details as to what Ford's thinking whether the President agrees with 
officials on the issues. 'He wants to is on the subject aside from saying Budget Director Roy Ash that it refine his thinking,'said terHorst. he hopes to come up with a plan will take as long as two years to 'He has some ideas of his own.' that would not require win the battle against inflation. congressional approval. Ford 'I don't think the President has 
Asked if the President might be announced at the Veterans of thought about it in terms of a time reconsidering his pledge of Foreign Wars convention Aug. 19 span,' he said. 'He's hopeful to lenience toward war resisters, that although he was against come up with a plan that will at­ter Horst replied: 'Absolutely not.' blanket general amnesty, he was tack it and won't take that long a 
Signs bill 
Ford increases solar use 
WASHINGTON (UPI) heating and cooling systems. Ford also sign~d an amendment 
The Department of Housing and 
President Ford signed Bills to the Youth Conservation Corps
Urban Development <HUD), and
Tuesday designed to increase the Act of 1972 which expands and use of energy from the sun and the National Aeronautics and makes permanent federal grants
Space Administration (NASA),
from heat sources deep inside the to states to provide summer work­earth. will each get $5 million in the education programs for 15-18 year
current fiscal year and $50 million
The first bill, the Solar Heating olds in national parks and other 
and Cooling Demonstration Act of in the succeeding four years to run lands administered by the 1974, sets up a demonstration the program. Departments of Interior and 
Under the Geothermal Energy
program under two government Agriculture.
Research, Development, and
agencies to test the feasibility of The President expressed "some using solar energy as a partial Demonstration Act of 1974, a concerns" about the $60 million substitutute for conventional government management group annual cost of the Youth Corps, but 
will be set up to further develop the said it was "not inconsistent with nation's resources of geothermal the 1975 budget and thus I am
Maddox 
energy -those derived from the pleased to be able to sign it." He internal heat of the earth. also signed a bill setting up tobacco 
Underground steam and hot marketing quotas which
defeated 
water is already being used for discour:age the production of typesheating or for electric power of tobacco not under price support 
generation in a few areas, but and acreage or poundage quotaATLANTA <UPI) -Flamboyant experts think that the potential has programs from being grown inLt. Governor Lester Maddox was 
crushed Tuesday night in a hardly been tapped. areas where farmers have chosen 
stunning upset by veteran state to comply with these programs. legislator George Busbee for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination. 
Science hall renovated 
Maddox, who served as governor by Dan Cofall and a completely new lab for from 1967 to 1971 and now is general biology. Also, an older 
Staff Reporter
lieutenant governor, faced veteran classroom was converted into 
The renovation of St. Mary's
state legislator George Busbee, a office, research, darkroom and South Georgia lawyer who cam­Science Building is near com­audio-visual facilities. Other 
pletion.

paigned on a pledge to be a additions were the installation of 
An old apartment was converted
"workhorse, not a showhorse." blackout curtains and the purchase 
to an advanced chemistry lab
Republicans, greatly out­of a Honeywell430 computer which 
which raises the total number of
numbered by Democrats, also will service the entire college.
chemistry labs to four. This, in
chose their gubernatorial nominee To complement the increased 
conjunction with the increased
from Macon Mayor Ronnie facilities, Dr. David Sever, a 
storage room which allows
Thompson, a gospel-singing, law­morphologist and ecologist, was 
adequeate space for instruments,
and-order advocate, and Atlanta added to bring the total Biology
has relieved some of the pressure
businessman Harold Dye, a former staff to seven. 
caused by the largese depart­
Democrat and state official. When asked about the $110,000
mental enrollment since 1967
Polling hours were 7 a.m. to 7 project's completion, which is 
There is also a threefold increase 
p.m. EDT. scheduled for two weeks, Dr. 
in the micro-biology preparation
The duel between Maddox and David Pilger replied, "I was 
room facilcilities, a 25percent
Busbee, who ran 1-2 in the first mighty relieved that we got


increase in the micro-biology lab
primary balloting Aug. 13, has started on time.'' 
bordered on the vicious. Each accused the other of lying, of pulling dirty tricks, of trying to mislead the public with phony charges and claims. It got to the point where both agreed to take lie detector tests over who supported a disputed legislative salary in­crease. But it never came off because neither would agree to go first. 
Zell Miller, former state senator and Pardons and Paroles Board member who once served as Maddox's top adie, ran against Mary Hitt, former Jesup mayor, in the contest for the Democratic nomination for lieutenant governor. The winner takes on Republican John Savage in the general election. 
Maddox, 58, pictured himself during the campaign as the champion of the little people and crusaded vigorously for honest, open government. He accused Busbee of being the tool of bitg business and the major news media. He hit hard on Busbee's endorsement by State Rep. Julian Bond, a controversial black leader. 
TAKE THE GREYHOUND TO CHICAGO NON-STOP FROM NOTRE DAME Every Friday at 4:40 P.M. the Greyhound goes non -stop from Notre Dame Circle Two buses 
return to Notre Dame ever.y Sunday 
CALL TOM BOYER 272-1807 
for information & reservations 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

House available prime S. E. 1974 Kawasaki 250 only 1000 
area 2 BR. Furnished ·all miles..must sell·-call 6839. 
utilities and cable for 3 

students. 287·7818. 66 VW Bug. Runs Well. $300 or best offer.call Mike 287-3463 
Attention off-campus renters. after 6 pm. 3 Br. House 825 Bryan St. 
Behind St. Mary's College Couches, Chairs, Lamps, Rugs, available Sept. 6, can take 4 at Cooper's. Call after 6 pm students. 287·7818. daily except Friday. All day Sat. & Sun. Free Delivery. 272· LOST & FOUND 3004. 
Set of Keys. Jim: 289·7811 or Couch $20, single bed, $18, 287·8282. small chest of drawers, $10, 2 comfortable chairs, $2 & $5. Gold· wire.rim glasses in black 289.3369. snap.closing case, contact Pat. 8623. Important. Used furniture for sale. Call Stanly, 287-0318 WANTED 
1967 Chevy Biscayne Sedan. $125 or best offer. Economical Green or Blue Rug. 8112 X i 1'12. around-the ..town tran­Call Mary·-283.7953. 
sportation call 291-5848. Part time babysitter needed 4 Dynaco 835 spkrs. 1 yr old. for two small children two List $120 each, asking $65 each. orthree days per week. Own 
call 232-8749, Mike. transportation must be provided. Phone 283·6619 or NOTICES 288·9892. 
24 hr. TV repair..color TV's $60 Purdue GA tix wanted. Please and up 282·1955 call Mary 283·7953. 
ND·SMC Council for the Exchange 2 $10 bleacher tix reatraded logan center for 2 section B or C Will pay orgainizational meeting Thurs. $50 a ticket with exchange. Sept. 5th, 7:30 pm. Library Joanne 287-9114 or Sandy. 
aud. Wanted to buy girls used biek. Please call 234·7616. 
FOR RENT 

Needed: Assistant Debate One room for rent N D students Coach; law or grad student. $50 per month. call 288·9533 or Call John Borkowski at 2182 or 
232-9311. 
3700. 

Attractive, clean, large Need 2 GA tix for Purdue. apartment, fully furnished Please call Dave 3458. 
including utilities. Sleeps 4 adults only. 602 N. Michigan Need student or GA tix for Inquire Kagel Florsit Shop. Purdue. Call Paul 8923. 
Hosue for rent 1136 E. Sorin 2 1 or 2 GA or Faculty tix for Br,lr, br, S. Proch, Part, Furn. Purdue & Army games. 234. Jim Licata 289·7811. 
1672. 

f Sunshine Promotions Presents 
Van Morrison 


and S.pecial Guest Da~ e Loggi-ns Sunda, Sept. 15 -7:30 P.M. 
Athletic and

NOTRE DAME 
Convocation Center 

Ticket Prices: Bleachers ..........~ $4,80 Lower Are• ......... $~00 Loge ............... SU~ Platform ............ SQO 
Floor Seats . .•.....•. $6.00 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT GATE lOTI~KET OFFICE, ROBERTSON'S SOUTH BEND ST. JOE BANK AND BRAN~ CHES, FIRST BANK DOWN­TOWN, AND ELKHART 
TRUTH. 

FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Van Morrison. Send toVan Morrison Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­oddressed st-amped envelope. 

Wednesday, September 4, 1974
8 the observer 

Athletics, academics; even 
•

m1x for Reggie Barnett 
Pressure doesn't bother Reggie Barnett. He doesn't have time for it. 
The 5-11, 181-pound veteran cornerback from-Flint, Mich., in his third season as a starting defensive cornerback for Notre Dame, says "concentration and expectations" avert any pressure. 
Despite his role in the success the Fighting Irish have enjoyed during his playing days, Barnett still considers himself "more of a student than an athlete. 
"I'm taking 21 credit hours this semester," he says, "and if everything works according to plan, I'll receive my master's degree in economics this spring. 
"I took heavy loads during the fall, spring and summer," Barnett adds, "and could have completed my undergraduate work this semester. One of my professors swayed me awhile back to get started on work toward my 

.... master's." Not only is Barnett assuming a mammothload in the classroom this fall, he has now become the "old hand" of the Irish secondary. Graduation took regulars Mike Townsend and Tim Rudnick, and a one-year suspension sidelined 1973 
phenomenor Luther Bradley. 
"I hate to say it, but I am the granddaddy of the defense," he admits. "I had expected Luther to take the limelight this year, and I was going to just sit back and try to have a good year. Now, I guess I 

Steve Euvino~================================================================================:::======================== 
Student Managers 
Editor's notC' · Steve Euvino is a junior at Notre Dame and also a student-manager. The junior managers are currently attempting to recruit freshmen managers for the upcoming '74-'75 athletic season. What follows intended to give the reader some conception of what a manager's res,•onsibilities include. 
Freshmen entering Notre Dame are special people. One look at their high school r• · ·ords show that some were valedictorians, some class officers, other: the editors of school newspapers and yearbooks, or the captain of a varsity sport. When they come to Notre Dame, they want to build on their talents. While only a small part of their education takes place in the classroom, they want to explore the larger part of their education, thP t·xtracurricular activities at Notre Dame. They see four years spent in the dorm as a waste of time and money. Notre Dame is blessed with a wide range of activities for all different interests. Student managing is one of these activities. 
Many people have preconceived notions about managers--those short, weak waterboys who carry dummies during practice and always have a football on them. Well, that's part of the manager's job, but not nearly all of it. Next to the basketball office in the ACC is the student manager's office. In that office managers keep records and files about all the athletes, in case they're needed by a coach or sports information. The managers prepare all the paperwork and accounting for every game. 
Managers work not only with the coaches but also with the athletic business directors. College sports today is big business and student managing has had to adjust to meet the increasing demands. It is an education in itself to see the efficiency of a modern athletic department. 
To most, the image of a manager is limited to football. The Notre Dame Student Managers Organization works with all varsity sports, including basketball, hockey, wrestling, fencing, tennis, swimming, track, cross-country, and baseball. A manager gets a well-rounded view of all these different teams. Working these different sports provides a change of pace for those managers who may prefer to work hockey or basketball. This too is a great part of the manager's education. 
Managing is hard work which many times seems to interfere with the ability to survive in the classroom. The long hours are just another part of the manager's education, a lesson in self-discipline. Class, studying, and managing must be scheduled and arranged to fit into one day. Sophomore managers prepare equipment on Thursday night for games; they know well that studying for a quiz Friday must be done on Wed­nesday. 
The managers creed is very simple: "We expect 100 per cent from 100 per cent of our managers 100 per cent of the time." Hustle--that's what managing is all about. Managers have to be on their toes all the time to be on the lookout for anything, whether it be a missing uniform or a missing player. Some days it is tough to hustle, but those are the days hustle is needed the most. The coaches and players constantly depend on the managers at a moments notice. One slip could make matters difficult for everyone. The coaches and players respect lhe managers for their hustle and the only way to maintain that respect IS by more of that same hustle. 
Right now we are in the midst of a recruiting drive for freshmen managers. The work is there, but so are the rewards. If you're interested tn becoming .. tudent manager now is the time to get involved. 
have been thrust out front a bit more, but I don't feel any dif­· ferently about my responsibilities. 
"There is no room for freelan­cing on the corner," Barnett adds. "I can't try to cover any more ground to help out the new guys. I still have to concentrate on my specific assignment so I won't get burned." 
Barnett doesn't see himself as a counsellor to the newcomers who figure prominently in Notre Dame's defensive strategy for 1974. 
"I try to help the guys if they have questions," says Barnett, "but most of the time I just try to get them to concentrate on their own assignment." 
Barnett knows the Irish will have to approach this season differently than last year. 
"Last year we weren't expected to finish on top," he reflects. "This season the 'expectations' are different. Everyone is pointing for us, and the new guys like Randy Payne, Randy Harrison and John Dubenetzky will have to carve their own niche under game conditions in front of packed stadiums. 
"Once the vacancies are filled 

and the new guys know their duties, we'll be strong again. It h •f 1 
won't take long." 

Though his plans after graduation are indefinite, Barnett says he is leaning toward law school. "But I'd give pro ball a chance if I was drafted high," he says. 
"If I don't play pro ball, I've got my education at Notre Dame to rely on. I was able to work for the Department of Interior this summer, analyzing computer sheets of economic problems. It gave me a real taste of a job in my field. I enjoyed the summer, which was a wild one on or near Capitol Hill." 
"My time here has been en­joyable, I have no regrets," says Barnett, who knew he was coming to Notre Dame primarily for defensive purposes. 
"I knew my role here would be a defensive one, because Coach Shoults (defensive secondary coach l talked to me a great deal about the position when I was considering Notre Dame," says Barnett. 
"But I didn't mind. I had been taking a lot of punishment of­fensively in high school,and I did enjoy playing safety in Flint. 
"I think I did run one play of­fensively at Notre Dame in practice, but right after that play, I 
Sh f •
uma e Jn 

ospJ Q with 
blood clots 
by Greg Corgan 

John Shumate, starting center and leading scorer of Notre Dame's 1974 basketball team, has been hospitalized in Phoenix with blood clots in his left lung. · 
Shumate, who had been working out with the Phoenix Suns of the National Basketball Association, was admitted to Good Samaritan Hospital last Thursday after complaining of chest pains. 
According to Suns team physician Paul Steingard the big center had undergone a lung scan last Tuesday when he first com­plained of the chest pains. The scan showed that scar tissue had built up in his left lung causing the clots. When a further lung scan Thursday showed that Shumate's condition had deterjorated, he was admitted to Good Samaritan. 
"Shumate is in no immediate danger," explained Steingard. "His condition is.very stable and is nothing like the clots he suffered in his leg three years ago. He has some blood disorder, which as yet we are unsure of, but we have ruled out sickle-cell anemia. We are trying to eliminate the clotting through blood-thinning and are attempting preventative measures so that Shumate will not be bothered with the disorder in the future." 
Larry Cox, of the Phoenix Gazette, added that Shumate would be out of action six weeks to three months. According tp Cox, Shumate was having ·an out­standing preseason and was guaranteed a starting center position with the Suns when he was.··· stricken with the blood ailment. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


Reggie Barnett (middle) with coach Paul Shoults and defensive back­

field mate Jolin Dubenetzky. was switched to the defensive side and I've found a home there. 
Before selecting Notre Dame, Barnett gave serious consideration to several Midwestern schools. "I knew of Notre Dame's tradition," says Barnett, "and I knew that year after year they field a team among the best in the nation." 
But the deciding factor was Barnett's mother, who "advised me that Notre Dame would be the best choice, lookingi~t all aspects of college life." ' 
DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. '74 Gen'l Features Corp. 
ACROSS 48 Proceed 1 "Moonlight" and 50 Narrow ship others channel 
8 Shield-shaped 51 Uncooked 15 Type of fog 54 Schedule of 16 "-Show" events 17 Open space on a 56 Matinee time 
frozen lake 59 Gormandize 18 Withstood the 61 Tsar or king 
storm 63 Veranda's 19 Cunning relative 20 Juicy items 64 Kafka novel 
22 Large antelope 65 Having a showy 33 Pares 
23 Sleuth tuft 24 Beginning 66 Seascapes26 Place DOWN 29 Small swamp 1 Resorts 30 Spring flower 2 Eye: Fr. 34 One-horse sleigh 3 Not a one: 35 Venomous Afri-Colloq. 
can snake 4 Can or tray37 Rambler 5 Blew the horn 38 Broadway ini-6 Of a court 
tials 7 Hurried 39 Cornered 8 Lanky fellow 40 Blue or White figuratively ' 
river 9 Rails 41 Rod's companion 10 Nobel prize42 Ice pinnacle novelist, 1928 43 City on the Oka 11 Cravat 44 Faux pas 12 Eager in 46 Devotee: Colloq. anticipation
47 Songs for two 13 Lake· in the Alps 62 Son of Gad 
J 

_________ , .• •-••"W -·-··~-~--------~~" 
"So I took her advice, and here I am" says Barnett. 
Hockey Tryouts 
The Notre Dame varsity hockey season opens October 25 with a two game away series with the Wisconsin Badgers. Head coa.r.h "Lefty" Smith announced that all students interested in trying out for the varsity hockey team should attend a meeting tonight, Sep­tember 4, in the ACC Auditorium near Gate 2 at 7:30. 
14 Two words from Caesar 21 Australi&n weapon
23 Filipino
25 Get up
26 Extra tire 
27 Piano man 
28 Enlist 
29 Without shoes 
31 Tours' river 
32 Tiny land mass 
35 Alps, for 
example: Abbr. 36 Military asst. 45 A doing again 47 Moister 49 Vestige50 After beta 51 Campus milit. 
gp. 52 State 53 Common verb 55 Paper measure 56 One of three look 
alikes 57 Became alertlto) 58 Old English 
money60 Amtrak, et al: Abbr. 






