On The Inside 
lnPirg projects ... page 3 
lnnsbruck report ... page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, November 12, 1974

Vol. IX, No. 46 

Hesburgh may veto 
SLC passes revised sex rule 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 

The Student Life Commission yesterday finally succeeded on its fourth try in passing a new sexuality rule. The rule, which now goes to Fr. Hesburgh for ap­proval or veto, proh:bits under pain of suspension or expulsion sexual misconduct which is "flagrant, perverse or repeated after previous warning" or is "coercive." 
The new provision, passed by a fourteen­six vote, is divided into three parts. The first section is similar to the philsophical statement in the present rule and will be placed in the preamble. The second section provides for serious misconduct and would be inserted immediately after Hule 5 in the Rules section of du Lac reading: 
''6. Any sexual misconduct that is 
flagrant, perverse, or repeated after 
previous warning or any sexual abuse of 
another person through coercion and---ilr 
violence. may result in suspension or 
expulsion." 
The third section, covering less serious 
misconduct would be added in place of the 
present rule on sex and reads: 

"The University realizes that sexual 
misconduct has greater and lesser degrees 
of seriousness. The hall rectors and staffs 
have the primary responsibility for 
dealing with instances of sexual 
misconduct within the residence halls not 
included in number 6 above. Rectors may 
warn. penalize or refer students for 
counselling. But all such cases should be 
handled in the halls in the true spirit of 
'community' and concern that exists at 
Notre Dame. As in number 6 above. any 
penalty should be commensurate with the 
nature of the offense." 

The four meeting-long debate centered 
on the meaning of various terms in this 
rule and demonstrated considerable 
confusion and disagreement among SLC 
members as to exactly what was 
prohibited. Some confusion may still 
exist. 

At an earlier meeting Student Body 
President Pat McLaughlin explained that 
·•a 'flagrant' act according to the dic­
tionary is one that is 'extremely or 
deliberately conspicuous,' " and this was 
generally accepted by the members of the 
SLC. 

The chan.-:es of approval of the entire rule were considered questionable by 
Student Commissioner Darlene Palma, who voted for the rule because "I com­plained of continued confusion. "The wording question was tactfully avoided and talked around. We got hung-up on what cohabitation is and left some of the wording vague." 
Whether homosexuality was covered under "perverse" was also debated and there was still confusion after the vote. "It is not perverse but it would come under sexual misconduct to be dealt with in the halls," Fr. Carl Ebey, rector of Fischer several members interviewed after the meetings. "I don't think that we fulfilled the requests made by Fr. Hesburgh in his last veto letter," Ackerman said, "but he may take into consideration the trade-offs that were necessary in debate and the advantages tha this version does have." 
Over the summer Hesburgh vetoed an earlier revision providing expulsion from the on-campus community as the maximum penalty for sexual infractions. His letter, which was not available for direct comment called for a rule that stated specifically what was banned and what the penalties would be. The letter also stated his expectation that ex­tramarital sex and activities that would allow the legitimate presumption of ex­tramarital sex would be prohibited. 
Neither Ackerman nor McLaughlin would hazard a guess on whether Hesburgh would veto the proposal. Flanagan commented that "overall we tried to follow Hesburgh's guidelines but not word for word of course. Now its up to him to decide." 
Palma, however, thought Hesburgh would definitely veto it. "There was not a strong enough majority behind it, he could object to the wording and the divison into serious and less serious parts. If he does reject it then we are back to the beginning again." 
Six members voted agains( the proposal, "McLaughlin, Sullivan, and Calrk, the students who voted against it,"Flanagan explained "did so because they did not want any rule and felt the compromise was too vague." Flanagan himself abstained. McLaughlin complained that "there were too many unanswered questions left, such as those on homosexuality and the trust between students and administration." 
Also voting against the proposal because of vagueness were Bro. Just Paczesny, Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost, and Fr. David Schlaver who also objected the the vagueness. "The more I hear about this thing, the less I understand 
it, Jones said. 

McLaughlin, who voted against the proposal partly due to this confusion said that "no one answered the question of whether homosexuality was considered perverse or not," and Palma agreed saying that the matter was "left un­decided." 
As to what was definitely covered by "perverse," Prof. Thomas Werge of the English department advanced the theory that "anything that involves bringing a ~orse or a sheep or even a large chicken, mto the dorm is definitely perverse." 
Other matters included under number 6 are sexual abuse of another person through coercion, which met with no ob­jection, and sexual minsconduct normally falling under number 8 but repeated after a warning. The provision requiring a previous warning was added after lengthy discussion of whether "cohabitation" was "repetitive" and therefore fell under number 6 or was simple "sexual misconduct" and fell under the lesser penalties of number 8. 
Flanagan interpreted the warning requirement to mean that cohabitation was prohibited only by number 8 unless an offender was caught twice. Brian Hegarty, third district representative, who first proposed the warning, agreed saying that '_'no one in their right mind will get caught twice sleeping over with his girl­and any one who is stupid enough to do it deserves to get busted." 
McLaughlin and Palma, however, thought that the cohabitation question had not been resolved and would be covered by the parietals rule. 
The Commissioners did agree that any "sexual misconduct" not covered by number 6 would be covered by number 8 but they avoided any precise definition of ''sexual misconduct" in this context. 
After lengthy discussion the SLC did agree to leave lesser misconduct to the rectors to deal with in a primarily coun­selling way. 
However rectors do have the power to punish under this rule up to the maximum of expulsion from the hall. There was nu dissent at the end of discussion on this question when McLaughlin stated h'; interpretation that "the power to 'penalize' under this section is restricted to the rector and does not extend to the Dean." 

At Urban Ministry conference 
No relief seen for world hunger CElSlS 
by Charlie Moran "I have a very pessimistic outlook toward progress in the future situation of hunger in the world,'' said Dr. Lyle Schertz, deputy administrator of the Economic Research Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Lyle's comment was part of the opening session of the 1974 Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry 
• ~nday afternoon in the Morris Inn. 

The speaker centered Monday's seminar chiefly on the role of the U.S. government and the plight of the farmer. Producing assorted facts and charts, Dr. Schertz showed how the government is releasing its control of the agricultural market in the U.S. and the world. 
"Government exports surplus of food has almost 
totally been stopped since 1973," he said. "Every 
though there was a record wheat crop in 1973, there 
was no surplus." 

According to the Deputy Administrator, the chief 
concern towards U.S. farm production is whether we 
want to be dominated by large corporate farms, or 
whether the small farmer should head government 
priorities. 

Presently, 4 per cent of the farms in the country 
produce 56 per cent of the food in the country. "It is 
quite clear where the trends are, he concluded, 
speculating on the future of the small farm in the states. "It is a question of priorities." Three reasons were cited for the discreoancv: a 
very high income level in the U.S. compared to those of other countries; good productive land and position in 
the world;  and  much  investment  in  research  and  
foresight in American production.  Most of the  em­ 
phasis was placed on'  the latter.  

"Research has made it possible for the U.S. to produce 50 bu~hels of wheat instead of 30 or 40, and has made productiOn generally higher." But the question was raised whether the research is geared toward the big farms and corporations, or if the small farmer is getting some advantages from it. 
Another topic discussed was where policy in the U.S. government is made. "Policies that have come about are really the result of power,'' said Dr. Schertz. He cited the law against importation on meats as the power of cattlemen, and contrasted the plight of the small farmer with the influence of corporate farmers. The food stamp program was shown as political poker in another direction. 
The speaker also asked whether the American people were ready to lower their real incomes and accept a lower standard of living in ordder to hlep the poor of the world. 
"Incomes are a tremendous restraint on the ability of people in the world to live better. I think that with the technology we have today, it is possible to produce enough food for the world." However, the demand must be there. If the underdeveloped countries offer no demand and we do not either, the food will not be produced, according to Dr. Schertz. 
"Much of the work must start with education,'' commented one person attending the seminar. People must know the situation and find out what they can do. "If we get 3000 Notre Dame students to eat a bowl of rice one night for supper instead of the meal, how can this be followed up with a program during Lent or sometime to keep up the concern and education of Notre Dame students?"' 
Students on campus concerned with the food shor­tage and world hunger crisis have become involved actively in the fight. Members of CILA, Campus Ministries, the Program in Non-Violence and other interested people have banded together to form a committee known as the Hunger Coalition. 
The committee's goals are, first to "raise the con­sciousness of the Notre Dame community concerning the main spiritual, moral and social issues related to the many dimensions of the world food crisis" and to develop a variety of creative action responses to the problems so that during the ecucational experience it will be possible to have a real compassion for some of the persons and issues involved. To ask Fr. Hesburgh to confirm some of the action strategies which would include influencing the dining halls and food sales in ways of collecting meney to be sent abroad." 
There will be a panel discussion Thursday, Nov. 14, 
on "The Ethics of Food, Population and Energy" with 
two other events later in the month, including students 
standing outside the dining halls asking others to 
bypass their meal in order to show support. 
....
------------~------------------.-------------------------------------------------------------~-------­2 the obser_v~r Tuesday, November 12, 1974 ,_, 

warld briefs 
ROME (UPI) -Secretary of Agriculture Earl Butz has put his weight behind an appeal to President Ford to pledge an additional million tons of emergency food aid for the world's hungry nations, Sen. Dick Clark said today.
Clark, an Iowa Democrat, said that "after some resistance" Butz signed a telegram from the entire 
U.S. delegation at the current United Nations World Food Conference supporting Clark's proposal for an announcement of increased U.S. aid totaling 4.3 million tons before the end of the fiscal year in June. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, criticizing his own department, said 
Monday the United States should forget about trying to reform the world and adopt a "hardheaded. cold­
blooded" American foreign policy. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-A week after the 1974 elections, some candidates still don't know if they won or lost. The main contests still in doubt are Senate races in Oklahoma, North Dakota, Nevada and New Hampshire, the governorship of Alaska, and House races in Nebraska, Maine and Louisiana. 
LONG BEACH, Calif. (UPI)-Former President Richard Nixon has been taken off the serious list and it is hoped he can leave the hospital this week, his doctor said today. The daily medical bulletin said that oral coagulant treatment to prevent further blood clotting had been resumed on Saturday and is continuing. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Six days after the Watergate break-in, President Richard M. Nixon ap~o,arently 
agreed that the CIA should teel the FBI to drop its investigation of Mexican funds used to finar.-ce the 
burglary, according to a tape played Monday at the Watergate. 

an campus taday 
4:30pm-seminar, "is dna all?", by dr. tracey sonneborn, i.u., span. by bio. dept., galvin life aud. 
4:30pm -seminar, "chemical knietlc studies using photoionization mass spectometry", by prof. 
david gutman, lit, span. by chem. dept., 123 nieuwland. 
5 pm -vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
7:30 pm -lecture, "development and cooperation between the east and west", by dr. farouk muwakki, spon. by business administration and econ. dept., carroll hall. 
7pm-meeting, psychology society,224 haggar hall. 
Pulitzer prize w-inner 


discusses 
by Mark Jahne Staff Reporter 
1973 History Pulitzer Prize Winner Dr. Michael Kammen emphasized America's "rite of passage" into maturity last Friday in the Library Auditorium. Kammen, history department chairman at Cornell University, spoke on the topic "The American Revolution and the Historical Imagination." 
Drawing on contrasts and comparisons from American literature, Kammen said "A part of our knowledge and part of our self-image as a nation result from historical romances." He defined three periods of strong revolutionary feeling in American literature. 
The first period, running through the 1820's and 1830's, was a time of 
strong  anti-British  feeling  in  
American  literature.  Kammen  
believes  that  much  of  this  ill  

feeling resulted from anger following the War of 1812. The works of James Fenimore Cooper were the primary references of this. 
The second period occured in the 1880's and 1890's, in which "anglophobia'' mellowed somewhat. Citing the works of 

A.merican 
Harold Frederic, Kammen noted that characters of English decent were not always portrayed as evil. Still, the American usually came out on top. He felt the mellowing was due to the span of sixty years since the War of 1812. 
The third period took place in the 1930's and 1940's, marked by strong pro-British feeling. This resulted from the U.S. -British alliance in 
World War I, and World War II legislation prohibiting any unkind printing about our allies. Books written by Kenneth Roberts provided examples of this. 
Kammen concluded that he hopes more and better historical 
1heology comse schedule changed 
There has been a mistake made in the course description booklet for Theology: All students in­terested in taking Theology courses 338 and 340 should come to room 1102 of the Library BEFORE Pre-Registration. All students interested in taking Theology 342 
<a  one-credit  between  semester  
class)  should  see  Fr.  Thomas  
Stella  at  the  student  activities  
office.  

Kammen 

:maturity 
texts will be written following the Bicentennial. Quoting Walt Whitman, he said, "As soon as history is properly told there is no more need of romances. 
The Observer is published dally during the college seml!!!ter except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
U.S. POSTAL SEA VICE 
SEE INSTRUCTIONS 
STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION 
ON PAGE 2IREVERSEI
(Act of Awgutt 11, 1910: Srr:rton J68J. Tit~ J9. United Stattl Cod•) 

1..1.1\,;.. i..>N Ot' KNOWN Otfl(;t: OF UIILICATIOfl ( lt"UI. c t)o, rololltl)' 111111', T.lf C<>IN) (Not prlttttrl) 
~til noor LaForl-Center Notre O....,St, Jooonh C01111h Indtn-lol;o;r,l; 


NAMt>ANUAUOHt>>O>U' UBLI>HtH.EOITOR.ANOMANAGINGEOOTO.F_______________________~ 
, 1,.arru>OII IIGQleQ --
Uaiw.....tu or !loU. o..­

rMANAG'R tDITDR (N-•oMO--
Harle... <~lou 225 l!edin Hall Notre o.., IH ltf;y,6 --------­
7 OWNER (If o-ra by fJ corpol'lltton, ltJ ~~Gmt rmd addrtJl mun bt Jtllttd and •tJo immfldllltr/y thtl"ftmdtr tM=Mm=,cc,~=d~od~.,=,-=,-c::o{rl nuclr.holrkrll m'"lng or ltoldi'lfl I pc'rctfll or mono of 10111/ o:rrnotmt ofrtor/lc. If 'lot owr~f!d b)' 11 rorporo:rtlofl, rltrr n.~mt'l o:rrtd 11ddrt1Uf!l of"'" /rtd/11/dw/ OW'If!rt mutt bt gillf!n, If o.._.,td by 11 parmtrrhlp or othf!r untncorpONttd firm, ltl n.~mt 1111d 11ddrw1111, a.r Willi 111 tltllt of f!ftt:h 
lndtvrduttl mu111 bt' fllllt'fl.j 
8. KNOWN BONDHOLDERS, MORTGAGEES. AND OTHER SECURITY HOLDERS OWNING OR HOLDING 1 PERCENT OR MORE OF 

! TOTAL AMOUNT OF BONDS. MORTGAGES OR OTHER SECURITIES (I tlturllrtiiCHW,IIO llflllt NAME 
liouth a....!. IH -_
lit. ·--• orr-t Co. 
9 rur IIUIII""I.. ..,;uMt'Lt: lVIII tsY UBLI HEH5 MAlLIN rHt HEYULAR RATES Section 132.121, PmtrriS~m~k:. M1nu1l 
39 U, S. C, 3626 provld•l In penloent prrrt: "No peuon who would hrn l»rrn rrntltl~ to mrrU mrrllfr undrrr formrrr s~ellon <135U of thh till• 
•h•ll mrrll ..,ch mrrurrr rrt fhrr rrrt•• provided undM fhit tubHctlon unlrrn hrr Ill•• rrnnurrlly with th• Pottrrl S.ntlc• rr -lttrrn rrrqu"t tor 
prrrmiiiiOntomrrllmrrnrrrrrtwchrrr~rr•" 
In rrc:cotdrrncrr with th• provlllont of thll U•tu1rr, I hrrr•bv rrrqunt prrrmlulon to mrrll th• publlcrrtlon nrrmed In ltrrm 1 rrt thrr rrrduced po.rrro­"'"'' pr-ntiV .uthorbrrd by 3U U.S, C. 3826. 

110. 
t-OR f NONPROFI r ORGAN~'"'\NS ,UTHORIZED TCf"VAf ~ AT. SPECIAL RATES (S.crlort 111.122. p,;,,,.,,.__, (__./ J (CMr/lc 011~) 
(If chtlnlf!d, publl#wr mwt
!::.:,::::;·!~~"~::· ;;:,;',"~;::~.·~~:'"F~~!: 0 ~;;-.;:!:c"~~~ 0 :r=~~n·v~d~:~~';! submit up1Dt14tlon ofrlwr!p 
Income trrll purpo... 12 montht ~th thUitllttnwnt.J 
AVERAGE NO. COPIES ACTUAL NUMI!IER Of COPIES OF 
EACH ISSUE DURING SINGLE ISSUE PUIILf8HEO NEAA·11. EXTENT AND NATURE OF Cl RCULATrON PRECEDING 12 MONTHS EST TO FILING DATE 

A, TOTAL NO. COPIES PRINTED (Nrt Prru Rutr) 
8.500 

B. P~I~;~:~~~~~~:H DEALERS ANO CARRIERS. STREET 
VENDORS AND COUNTER SALES 
350 

C. TOTAL PAID CIRCULATION 
816'1 

D. FAEE DISTRIBUTION BY' MAIL, CARRIER OR OTHER MEANS 
270 
1. 
SAMPLES, COMPLIMENTARY, AND OTHER FREE COPIES 

2. 
COPIES DISTRIBUTED TO NEWS AGENTS, BUT NOT SOLD 



E. TOTAL DISTRIBUTION (Swm ofCDnd DJ 
F. OFFICE USE, LEFT-OVER, UNACCOUNTED, SPOILED AFTER PRINTING 
66 
66 

G. TOTAL {S~m ofll& F-lltou/d~qUIIIIW'I /W~IIInlrt silo-In AJ 
8.500 
.... (st,Mtur' of~UH. publllh~r'_budrtf!# ntllrta6f!r, ar o-r) 
I crrlify 1ha11h~ ~••ltmtol• mud~ hy mf! ah<overrtc ~unt<:lllod o:umpl•re. ·IM~ F-·~&--::>
V

PSForm 3626 Juh IY71 L) 

220 W. Marion -Elkhart Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years 
Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 

The Notre D.,.SfudenfUnion Cultural Arts Commission presents 
A.NSUJ/flUSICAw 

Thursday, November 14th &OOpm at OLaughlin Auditorium St. Mary's College 
tickets:  $2.00 Students $3.00 Adults  
on sale at  Student Union Ticket Office Iafortune student centw and at the door  

information: '1Ji3.3197 

Tuesday, November 12, 1974 the observer 
InPirg chairman announces future projects 
Shickich. He noted the group Kennely at 1228. doctors will be questioned on type government. Call project head by Jim Donathen needs students to survey stores Recycling--A recycling of practice, fees, acceptance of Mark Clark at 289-8029. Staff Reporter and key punch data cards for program, with dorm pick-ups of Medicare patients, etc. Call Small claim courts-Students are computer processing. bottles cans and paper, is being project head Frank Musica at 1563. investigating the possibility of 
Grocery pricing, toy safety and A study of toys sold in South organi~ed. Call project head Julie small claim courts in South Bend public utility surveys lead the list Bend stores is part of a statewide Englehart at 1328. Political projects for lobbying purposes. Call project of current InPirg projects an­effort to expose dangerous toys. head Andy Burner at 233-4224. nounced Joe Shickich , chairman On Dec. 2, InPirg plans to release a Health projects Lobbying information--The of the board of directors of the list of unsafe toys, based on im­backgrounds of state legislators in lnPirg information Notre Dame chapter of InPirg. proper design, poor materials and Mental patients' rights--A study Northeast Indiana are being Yesterday, Shickich outlined the inflammability. Interested per­of the patients' right to humane examined. Call project head Tom InPirg information can also be research group's activities and sons should call Frank Musica, treatment, the right of due process Benjamin at 3488. obtained at their second floor 
stressed the need for volunteers. InPirg staff director, at 1563. in commitment procedures and the Power structure survey--InPirg LaFortune office or by calling 6413. 
"The amount of work we can do InPirg needs volunteers this right to be paid for labor per­is checking the inter"relationship of Office hours are 12:30 to 4: 15 p.m.,is a function of the amount of week to examine the gas, electric, formed is underway. Call project people controlling Notre Dame, Monday through Friday. In the people we have. We have a list of and water companies treatment of head Joe Shickich at 289-3836. area banks, industries, utilities, evening, contact staff director 
about 100 people interested in elderly and middle income Director of Doctors--Area civic organizations, and city Frank Musica at 1563. InPirg, but we can use two or three families. The survey, a joint times that num her," Shickich project of InPirg and the Institute emphasized. for Urban Studies, will be 


Walton discusses develop1nent
InPirg, a statewide, student presented before a state hearing on operated and student financed utility company malpractices. organization, applies its research Shickich outlined other InPirg to both immediate and long-range projects requiring student help: 

of American business attitudes 
social changes. InPirg operates a state office at Indianapolis with Environmental projects 

John Locke. It was John Locke benevolence. 
chapters at Notre Dame, Indiana 

by Bill Flanagan wbo gave us our form of govern­In talking about how we adaptedUniversity, Earlham University, Bottle bill--A consumer Staff Reporter ment by inviting the participation ourselves to all this, Dr. Waltonand Valparaiso University. preference survey will be taken as of people who had the greatest mentioned the law of contract andCurrently, Notre Dame InPirg is background for lobbying efforts to 
Dr. Clarence Walton, President stake in it. the law of corporations. He sz.id
conducting biweekly price surveys reduce the availability of throw­of Catholic University of America, He pointed out that at one time in the law of contract stated a con­of South Bend supermarkets, said away cans. Call project head Matt lectured on "Historical Per­
England, the two classes of people tract is binding without regard to spectives on Society-Business who were thought of as presenting any advantages by either side and Relationships," Monday afternoon the greatest danger were the the law of corporations "insured
Poll shows faculty favors 

in the Library Auditorium. 
priests and the lawyers: the the legitimacy of authority."
Walton, the first lay president of priests preached the supremacy Walton showed how we were 
Catholic Univeristy, first of the individual conscience and "children of Europe" at first, but

return to 1973-7 4 calendar 

examined American attitudes 
the lawyers promoted individual were able to reach into history and 
during the nineteenth century. 
rights. form a unique Constitution. Weby Brian Clancy and John Carrao like it, last year's calendar was "Progress was not historical, it In discussing free enterprise, are, in effect, a "prefabricated"Staff Reporters much better:" was an everyday occurrence," he 
Walton said Adam Smith saw that nation and our major invention issaid. the solution to quarrels among the law.
Approximately 60 percent of 30 Professor of English James Robinson, a member of the Walton contrasted this with the merchant class was in the system Walton said we are a people offaculty members noticed a marked present attitude by mentioning a itself. Smith encouraged hard, laws, not men. Or as Herbertdecline in attendance just prior to committee which developed the 

recent New York Times editorial 
tough competition but at the same Hoover said, "We are a nation unto the mid-semester break, according present calendar, offered a which declared that the time, building with gentleness and our<:elves."
to an Observer poll. Most, compromise solution. "We could 

"hottest present-day issue is the 
however, felt that the increased achieve the same result by imminent collapse of western absences had little or no effect on eliminating the mid-semester break 
civilization." He also pointed 
their teaching plans for the and adding a few days to the 

to syndicated columnist Joseph
semester. Thanskgiving vacation, that way 

Alsop's comment that in Europe
we could have the time off without 

The remaining 40 percent do there is a "mood of despair"
having such an early start." 

concerning the West.
not have Friday classes and were Most teachers did not seem to Despite the forecasters of doom, unable to comment on this question. 

mind students extending their Walton tends to "back off" from vacation a few days. Yet, those predictions.Two-thirds of the professors who Professor of Earth Sciences He then addressed himself to 
teach on Friday noted a significant Erhard Winkler state, "If the three major questions: decrease in student attendance, present policy continues next year, 1) What are the majorwhile one-third termed the at­I'd like the right to kick the student philosophical concepts that have tendance, "mild." Few professors out of class if he cuts just before or made us possible? had to change their curriculum as after the break." 2) How did they grow in America? 
a result of low attendance. 3) What is the current status of z these concepts?
When asked if the break had 7ickets on sale lOl Walton presented three divisions 
proven beneficiary to them, over 

to help answer these questions:
80 percent of the teachers 

nationhood, republican form of responded affirmatively, while 15 Black Oak concerfgovernment and free enterprise.
percent answered negatively. 

In talking about nationhood,
Most replied that they had, spent 

Walton said the ideas that aided
Mail orders are now being ac­

the time catching up on their work men when they formed nations
cepted for the Black Oak Arkansas 

and a few managed to fit in a small were: natural geographical
concert scheduled for Tuesday,

vacation. boundaries, people sharing the
December 17, at the A.C.C. The 

Approximately 90 percent stated English rock group Foghat will same race, religion, language and that they would prefer to return to also perform. Ticket prices are wars against common enemies. 
Walton attributed much of the
the old calendar with the semester $6.00, $5.00, and $4.00. Mail orders 

break eliminated and the summer should be addressed to: Notre republican form of government to 

vacation extended. Dame-Black Oak Arkansas Concert, Notre Dame A.C ..C.,
Mathematics professor Wilhelm Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. TicketStoll said, "I could do very well sales begin Monday, Nov. 18 at thewithout the break." 
A.C.C. and Student Union Ticket Dean of Science Bernard Offices. Ticket sales begin 10 a.m. 
Waldman stated bluntly, "I don't Monday. 
OFF CAIV\PUS STUDENTS 

Presentation by SOUTH BEND CRIME PREVENTION UNIT TODAY and TOMORROW 
11 :30 a.m. -1:00 p.m. LaFortune Lobby Also Avaliable: 
Pens for Haii-M arc Program & Student Telephone D i r e c t o r i e s *-******* 

Don'tlettheprice
ofa college 

education stop 

you. 
The price of a college educa­tion is skyrocketing. The Air Force has done something about it. For the first time. the Air Force ROTC Scholar­ships include the 2-year program. for men and women. 
If you qualify. the Air Force will pay for the remainder of your college education. Not only do AFROTC 2-year scholarships cover full tuition, reimbursement for textbooks. lab and incidental fees, and $100 a month, tax-free. 
To cash in on all this apply qualify, and enroll in the Air Force ROTC at Bldg. No. 5 
call Capt. Shepard, 6634 
It's a great way to finish your 
college education in the money, 

and build a future as an Air · forte officer.· · · MAKE THE MOST OF IT 

111111111111



mantezuma'a revenfie ,.. ' 



THE OBSERVER 
At-.' INDEPEN-DENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

Dreams, Part One 
EDITORIALS: 213-8661 NEWS: 213-1715 BUSINESS: 213-7471 Tom Drape

Fred Graver Marlene Zloza
Editor-in-Chief

Editorial Editor Managing Editor Terry Keeney Bob Zogas
Bob McManus News Editor Business ManagerAdvertising Manaaer 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIJIIIIJIIIIJIIIJIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIII 
ray r ami r e Z 
Tuesday, November 12, 1974 

Believe it or not, you do have something in common with that hot little number you've been eyeing at lunch for the past few months. Aside from the fact that you are both students (of sorts) you both dreamt something last night. As you do everynight. Yes, it's true. Science tells us that we all dream something every night of our lives, and furthermore that we may have many dreams a night.
Unfair and Uniust Though we remember but a few, we are affected by them all. 
It appears that the ACC has once again exercised its right to set ticket prices as it sees fit, without regard towards fairness or justice. This time, the actions extend to St. Mary's basketball tickets, and the implications run further than economic discomfort. 
As Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice­
president of student affairs at St. Mary's said, "there would have to be a complete change of attitude concerning St. Mary's over at the Notre Dame Athletic 
Department," before any change in ticket prices could be accomplished. 
It's time for members of the Notre Dame community to retreat from their defensive post-non-merger stance and begin to realize that St. Mary's is a vital part of the Notre Dame community. 
Not only is the pricing of tickets unfair, 
but a new seating troduced this year  arrangement further aids  in­in  
widening  the  gap  between  the  two  

colleges. In the past, St. Mary's students have been able to sit in the same sections as Notre Dame students. This year, they have been relegated to a separate section in the bleachers , at a price of ten dollars more than their Notre Dame coun­terparts. 
In spite of the fact that this seating arrangement is common knowledge, ticket manager Don Bouffard stated that St. Mary's girls have never been seated in the same sections with Notre Dame 

students. 

Another statement which appears somewhat dubious in the face of facts is Bouffard's contention that St. Mary's students received ample notification of ticket prices and dates of sales. St. Mary's students contend that very little, if any, notification was made before October break. 
Bouffard claimed that the Notre Dame 
Athletic Department sent a bulletin 
announcing ticket sales and dates to Pat 
McLaughlin, the Observer, and the 
Scholastic. All three deny having 
received such a notice. 

These actions are characteristic of the 
behavior practiced by the ACC in regard 
to students. The last instance dug into the 
wallets of Notre Dame students, with 
little, if any explanation as the the real 
reasons behind the raise in prices. 

This time, the actions are more damaging than the economic discomfort caused. The handling of St. Mary's basketball tickets has served to weaken another link in the already decaying relationship between the two colleges. 
Mary Janca Fred Graver 

DOONESBURY 


THAT5 Jf/HY I CAME 
Of!T HER~ ZONK! I HAO 7lJ GET Ot/T Of= THE OTY: TO GET IN T()(JOI WITH 
MYSELF /JEFOI?£ IT 

Conveying what we have dreamt is difficult, if not often downright embarassing. They are difficult to convey because in our drowsy conditions we soon forget them. That they can be embarassing depends only on you. You may have noted that what we do remember is often conveyed in terms borrowed from motion pictures. We talk about dreams as if they were tiny features playing in some sort of cerebral theater. The less imaginative 
among us have short black and white dreams, the more imaginative put together massive productions, while the most imaginative tend toward sixteen-millimeter explicitness. All of us have experienced this full range of dreams, from frantically assembled "B" pictures to lavish productions taking an entire night. The costs of these latter films are enormous in time and thought expenditure, but they are extremely entertaining. We further pay for our entertainment when we awake, for these all­nighters are frustrating in that their length dictates that they be the most difficult of dreams to remember. Even more frustrating is that these are the dreams that tend to be cut short by an ill-timed clock radio or a clumsy roommate. What profit a man to compose a tour-de-force in dreams and not even find out how it ends? 
There is always the next night, but continuity is not a strong-point of dreams. When you finally get back to your dream you might find the sets different, the characters changed, and that you aren't coming out as well in this dream as you remembered. Ah, so what. If you don't like one dream, don't worry ... chances are you have another one coming up in just moments. Now here is a strong-point of dreams: their variety. In any given night you might run a travelogue, some psychedelic assemblage of assorted Cor sordid) images and maybe even sneak in one of those sixteen-millimeter productions mentioned earlier. The trouble is, when you awake you most probably will not recall your dreams in any sort of separate, coherent packages, but rather as fragments reconstructed into some sort of extremely odd montage. Someday your roommate may sit bolt-upright in his bed and tell you something like: "Gosh, I had the wierdest dream. Something about veal parmesan, Jiminy Cricket and chariot races through Dowagiac. I was looking at the whole thing when two bowling-pins abducted me at knife-point." At first you might think he's lost a few dots off his dice, but this is obviously a case of too much television, Notre Dame and Shula 's 31. 
Dreams are only dangerous though, when they are transformed into action. They are most dangerous when acted out as they occur, as in somnambulation, i.e., sleepwalking. Though previously thought to be rare, medical research has shown it to be extremely common <Dunn & Scaduto They'll Do It Every Time, 1970). If you doubt this, look down the quad any morning and you will see thousands of students walking in their sleep to and from classes. Automatically they head for classrooms where they can enjoy a really good nap, or else they go to the dining halls for breakfast, staring blankly into their sunny-side-ups. Look at the person next to you. Are you sure he's awake? He probably rose from a warm bed, dressed while yet asleep (he looks it too) and is still dozing peaceably, only giving the pretense of being awake. Take care not to wake him, for he is probably dreaming at thismomentand the sudden blast of reality could stop his heart (somnacide). I too was incredulous on this point, but I tested it one morning and it worked. At breakfast that morning I noticed a guy pulling bacon splinters from his teeth, seemingly alert, but I had a suspicion that he was asleep. I was tipped off to this when he calmly buttered his hand and brought it up to his mouth. To avert the impending discomfort on tiis part, I yelled at him, whereupon he screamed something about Joey Heatherton, Melba toast and the King James Bible and fell dead into his tray. Terrified, I dragged the body to the engineering building, propped it up in the eighth row of chemistry 115, and to this date he reposes there. Don't feel to sorry for him though. He got a six on the last double quiz. 
by Garry Trudeau 
0/i... a/Et.L, 
YOU CAN IJ5E THANKs_ MIKE'S R.OOM ZONK. I IF YOU WANT.. APPRECIATE 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
the observer 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111101111111111111111111111 
Night Editor: Thomas O'Neil Ass't Night Editor: Danny Sanchez 

Layout: Jim Stevens, Martha Fanning, Bob Varettoni, Franz Lanzinger Copy Reader: Jim Dona then Day Editor: Bob Radziewicz 
Editorials: Ken Girouard 
Features: J. R. Baker Sports: Bill Brink, Bill Delaney 

Typists: Don Roos, Barb Norcross, H. Halle, Tom Modglin, South Landis, Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator: Phil Orscheln 
Picture Screener: AI D'Antonio Ad Layout: Bob Tracey 

Tuesday, November 12, 1974 the observer 
5 

the year at innsbruck 
ich bin ein berliner 
I can now understand why President swept away while erecting what is almost a link that has helped to mold West Belin into Kennedy proclaimed "my proudest boast is, new metropolis. the free-wheeling place it is today. Kur­
Ich bin ein Berliner.'' Less than thirty years The Cold War, however, has left behind a furstendamm Strasse, the city's hub, is ago, Berlin lay in ruins, a massive rubble structure that has become a symbol of the awash with bright, flashing neon. Many of pile monument to the effectiveness of the destruction of man's freedom, the Berlin the top businesses and stores are located on Allied air forces. Corpses floated in the Wall. It cuts across the center of the city, the "Ku-damm." And for night people, the 
lakes and streams, derelict tanks and guns interrupting canals, streets, street car lines, great restaurants, theaters, and cabarets clogged the streets. The city ceased to and until recently, lives. From the west, have revived here with full fury, along with functon in a country that had ceased to only the painted concrete block wall and the open prostitution. function, a Germany defeated in body and guard towers can be seen. A twenty foot Amidst all the modernness, the past has spirit, and occupied by four nations. The buffer zone is marked by a railing, as the certainly not been forgotten. At the head of Allies' sector of Berlin stood isolated in the closest point the Wall can be approached Ku-damm stands the hollow remainder of Soviet zone, precipitating a couple of war­before the East . German guards go into the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church, as a potential confrontations over the West's acion. It is from the east that the whole wall monument to the wrath of WW II. The 18th freedom. complex is visible: all the patrolling guards centuryCharlottenburgPalacehas carefully 
Undaunted, Berliners systematically and dogs, with several layers of barbed wire been restored, along with its fine museums, cleaned-up and rebuilt their city, the West and electric fencing before the block wall. art galleries, and gardens, to itsconditionof more vigorously than the East. As with The wall has dissected the city on pre-war days. With a stunning, new con­most of Germany, new buildings were ideological grounds and fosstered the cert hall, the Berlin Philharmonic again constructed on the foundations of the old, evolution of two cities within one. ranks as one of the world's great orchestras. with some of the historic sectors restored to The West has grown up brash and brassy, The East has come back in a slower, more their earlier glory. Many structures erected probably the fastest moving city in Europe. subdued style. For many years, a heavy during the immediate post-war days, that In many ways, it resembles New York government emphsasis on increasing in­
deteriorated into slums, have also been without the skyscapers. It houses the dustrial output kept rebuilding schemes on 
replaced, furthering the amazing revival of headquarters of some of West Germany's the drawing boards. But with a change of the city. Now, before and after pictures of lop corporations, financial institutions, and regimes in 1971 came a greater stress on Berlin would make Charles Atlas blush with government offices, though connected to the consumer goods, and numerous apartment envy. The scars of World War II, except mainland by only three roads. and modernization projects, which have 
.those meant to be monuments, have been Perhaps it is this somewhat precarious significantly narrowed the living standard gap between the two Berlins. 
A walk down the main street, Unter den Linden, reveals the more sober, serious nature of the East. Ithas none of the glaring lights, skin magazine stands, or swank night 
The Siegersaxle keeps a silent watch over 

spots of the Ku-damm. Unter den Linden 
the city.

has numerous stores, carrying less 
luxurious goods at higher prices. point. This year marked the 25th an­Hestaurants and businesses in general are niv~rsary of East Germany, so most every more modest and more expensive here, with available space was covered with a some much more unfriendly to tourists. "DDR 25" (Deutsches Demokratische 
The classical and historic parts are held in Hepublik l poster, with slogans like, "Our East Belin, yet have not been so faithfully socialist way is right," and "25 years of restored as in the West. Quite a few old peace for the children." landmarks, particularly churches, have One thing rarely found on eigher side of been allowed to stand partially destroyed or the wall is the name Adolf Hitler. His ac­were bulldozed. Two fortunate exceptions tions, as much as anyone's, shaped the were the fabulous Permagon Museum of present Berlin, but only museums contain ancient artifacts, and the flourishing his traces to denounce his atrocities. In fact German State Opera. the whole area around the Reichstag, once 
The biggest shock for any newcomer to a the government and diplomatic center of communist country has to be the Germany, was converted into a large park propaganda. During the hour wait while after the wa~. Very little remains of what passports are processed at the East-West for many must be a painful memories of checkpoint, some conditoning for the Nazism. change should be given. In museums, Yet the memories are not obsessions but Americans are always termed imperialists, guideposts of what to avoid. Berlin is ~uch monopolists, or both. People like Otto von too busy improving itself to wallow in the Bismarck receive scarce mention, while past, yet concerned with preserving a rich references to Karl Marx hit the saturation heritage to enlighten the future. 


musical excellence and 

an appreciative audience 
a review by Iaureen goers 



It was definitely a far cry from the trick-<>r-treaters in a delightful barbershop of Jericho," as well as the composing talent including of two members' Simon and weekend of Blues just ended when the Notre quartet-style interpretation of Halloween. of their director in their performance of Garfunkel medley which could have worked Dame Glee Club presented their fall concert With the trend towards nostalgia and seven lsele's powerful "Psalm 64." Finally, more in a coffeehouse, but not in this type of in Washington Hall last night. The two talented men behind it, the medley of than a few sighs and ahs were heard in the concert, the audience was treated to a events shared important qualities, "Baby" songs (containing such oldies but predominately female audience when the polished, creative performance. The Glee however; musical excellence and a goodies as "Baby Face" and "Rock-a-bye­Club gave as one of the two encores the Club members enjoy a great sense of cheering, appreciative audience. Baby") following next could not help but Beach Boy medley so enthusiastically 
steal the show. Frank Barrett, the club received at their concerts last year. 
solidarity and love for music; when, as atUnder the exacting and often innovative accompanist, revealed the extent of his Despite occasional, momentary last night's concert, they share this withdirection of Prof. David Isele, the Club talent in his arrangement and performance hesitations to come in at the beginning of their audience, the result is an exciting,presented a program which displayed their of the set, while the audience smiled and songs done early in the program, and the uplifting experience. 

control. vocal range and versatility. clapped to the song and dance of Jeff 
Beginning with traditional pieces by such Brunner, Paul Fisher, Jay Parks, Mike 
composers as Purcell and Schubert, the Savino, Paul Shay, and Craig Spengel, and group pulled off even such lyrics as "Ia-la­were genuinely disappointed when their la-la" with their consistently excellent tone, prolonged cheering was not rewarded with clarity, and delicate handling of the works. an encore. 
The impressive French, German and The second half of the program contained Italian pieces soon gave way to spirited two more excellent sketches: Jay Parks drinking songs in the great tradition of the and Nick Strittmatter's convincing, joyous Club, as the owners of Hocco's or Sweeny's intepretation of "Where Would You Be could confirm. The teasing harmonies of Without Me?" from "The Roar of the these songs were followed by Isele's capable Greasepaint," and a polished production of 



OBSERVER
arrangement of "Blow Ye Winds," an "But, Mr. Adams" from "1776." From the amusing "great American adventure" costumes and movements to their singing ballad. and comic touches, Tom Hansen, Erik Larson, John Murphy, Art Panfile and Scott Glee Club audiences have come to look Wahle's performance glowed with a sense of 
FEATURES
forward to the skits interspersed throughout professionalism. 
the concerts, and they definitely were not 
... 
disappointed with those at last night's This portion of the program also showed performance. Jim Johnston, Brian Lemon, the club's tightness and ease in handling Ed Fritzen, and Jack Kuczynski became quickly changing tempos, as in "The Battle 
.-.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
the observer Tuesday, November 12, 1974
6 
New programs initiated 
Counsel-Center relocated 
started a male-female education causes a great deal of in­by Martha Fanning group. A group of eight-four of · convenience. Hard feelings and 
Stan Reporter 

The Counseling Center has finally moved to its new location on the fourth floor of the Ad­ministration Building. Dr. Sheridan McCabe, Director of the 
Center, describes the new offices as "one of the best facilities for a counseling center I've ever seen." 
The Center is for use by anyone connected with Notre Dame, and is intended to help students make the most of their college experience by resolving problems which get in their way. "The prest'nt location is designed for this work. and set up for effective functioning," stated McCabe. 
A wide range of problems­academic, vocational or personal­are dealt with the center. Most students who go there are given the opportunity to take some type of test to help them discover their interests and aptitudes. 
"We use tests to find answers to students needs," said the director. When a student is trying to decide a career or major he might take an interest test. "This supplies some information on what that person is suited for and can be used by the student to make a good decision," McCabe added. 
Counseling is done in groups or on an individual basis, which ever is most helpful in solving an in­dividual's problem. 
One general probleon the campus which the center is ex­ploring is the male-female at­titude. Last spring the center each sex--met for six sessions to explore difficulties and attitudes encountered when relating to the opposite sex. In doing so they hoped to make it easier to relate to 
each other. 
"The program proved suc­cessfullast year and we would like to run it this fall," commented McCabe. 
A program designed to help deal with test anxiety is also being started. It will be offered to students so they can "learn how to deal with anxiety which can get in the way of their being effective when taking a test," explained McCabe. These sessions would not be counseling but training in handling test anxiety. The center 
·hopes to start such a program this fall before final exam week an<tcontinue it next semester. 
TheCenterwould also like to help the student who is doing well but feels there is room for im­provement. In order to expand on this idea several programs are being planned. For example, the center would like to hold, before Thanksgiving, workshops to help students bring their goals into focus. · It would be a one time workshop meeting for several hours. Through self-exploration and discussion the members of a group would consider their life's 
goals~ 
Another program in t)le works is Assertive Training. This program is designed to help people be sensitive to their own behavior and become correctly assertive," McCabe ·stated . Many people are unable to refuse a request even if it misunderstandings can result. Showing people how to assert themselves to the right degree would help to eliminate this problem. 
The Counseling center began in 1967. Its predecessor was the Department of Guidance and Testing which has since been replaced by the Freshman Year of Studies. 
The center also serves as a setting for graduate courses in Counseling Psychology. Everyone in the center works either directly or indirectly on that program. The ..professional staff is headed by Sheridan 'McCabe, ,Ph.D.. He is assisted by Paul Banikiotes, Ph.D., Thomsas Meruzzi , Ph.D., and a part-time member Rene Wilett. 
An Open House is planned for the first week in December, to enable people to come in and acquaint thel!lselves with the center. In­dividuals who would like to sign up for a program or desire in­formation can either drop in the Counseling Centerlocated in Room 400 of the Administration Building or call 283-1717. The center is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Erratum 

It is not certain that Anthony Burgess or James Purdy will be attending the Sophomore Literary Festival this year. They have expressed interest in the festival and may be in attendence, but it is not definite. 

Only Continental 

gets you a flight, a chalet, a car, and lifts for $259. 
~If 
Our exclusive new Rocky Mountain ski packages feature luxury furnished chalet studio condominiums a short walk from the lifts. It's the Ultimate Lift Ticket! 
Chicago-Breckenridge package covers: 
• 
Round-trip jet Coach airfare with tax, and meeting service at Denver Airport 

• 
7 nights lodging, 7 days skierized rental, 3 days lift tickets 


For more information, contact 
your travel agent or Continental• Lowest possible prices, immediate packilge at 686-6500, or send in the coupon. 
confirmation 

• Larger chalets available with one to three 
I CONTINENTAL AIRLINES--------­
bedrooms for two to six people We have similar packages available at I P.O. Box 4187, North Hollywood, Calif. 91607 Vail, Snowmass/Aspen, Keystone, and I I want to get in on the ground floor of that ski Steamboat. All prices per person double I chalet package program. Tell me more! occupancy, with state and local room and car I
I Name__________________________
taxes additional, as well as Christmas 
I Address________________________
surcharge December 20th through January 4th. 1 City State Zip______
Rental-car gas and mileage extra; driver must be 21 or over. 1 Phone_____My travel agent is-----­
We really move our tail for you-


CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the GoldenlaiL 


Local bars, students 'harassed' by police 
by Ken Lamb 
Staff Reporter 

Reactions to the recent Alcohol Board Commission warning directed against the bars near Notre Dame ranged from anger to indifference. 
Louis Rappelli, owner of Louie's, said "the public's got it against the students and five little bars." He cited the raids and felt that both the students and the bar owners are "harassed and abused" by the police. He said that since the students haven't hurt anyone it was unfair that they should be harassed. 
"Wouldn't it be nice for people to stop picking on us?" he asked. "I was outside today cleaning up my place and if everybody would clean up their own yard there'd be no problem." 
"The only thing wrong is the cups," Rappelli said. He suggested "the students don't take their cups out, but leave them in the bar, walk on sidewalks instead of the streets and just keep a little quiet" when they leave. 
He said "the students have got to help out." "My place is for the students and I want the students to be able to say so." 
Rappelli also asked for student support. "You can really do something," he said. He men­tioned the voter registration drive and urged all the students to give the bars the same kind of support and effort. 
"If the age was 18 or 19, look at 
the problems you'd solve." He 
ended with a plea for the students 
to "help us out." 
Chris Lombardi of the Library 
was asked whether the bars could 
be expected to enforce the ruling. 
"That's where our real problem 
lies," he said. "A lot of this litter 
comes from off-campus parties 
and there's nothing we can do there." 
Lombardi said that students dim't recognize the problem and "try and sneak out drinks all the time." He said that police as well as bar owners realize that "raids aren't going to solve the problem." 
"The warning itself doesn't really affect us, it's in the renewal of licenses that they get down hard," stressed Lombardi. 
Joe Mell of Corby's stated that since "the police are always around" and will "hassle anyone they see with an open beverage" the action was in effect "no new ruling." He expected there to be "no change." 
Professor Arthur J. Quigley, leader of the Northeast Neigh­borhood Association, stated that "it is a little too early to tell." He said it would be a few weeks before any results would show. 
When asked if he felt the bars 
could enforce the ruling, Quigly 
said, "I don't know whether they 
can, but they have not in the past. 
He said he expected his group's 
"long, drawn out process" to 
continue and that one "can't ex.­
pect miracles." 
Lombardi said the bar owners 
are getting together to discuss the 
problem. One solution mentioned 
would be for "all the bar owners to 
chip in to a clean-up fund and then 
have a clean-up crew come 
through every day," he said. It 
will be a couple of weeks before 
anything definite happens, 
however, said Lombardi. 
Lacrosse ~meting 
There will be a La crosse meeting held today at 4:30 in the ACC Auditorium. All members of the Lacrosse club and anyone interested in joining should attend. 
''caralter year, semester I after semester, t~.~ CollcgcMastcr from Fidclitv Union Life has tx..-cn tile most acceptl'tl., most popular plan on campuses all overAmenca. 
Find out why. 

Call the Fidelity Union Collegel\tlaster· Field Associate in your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
Phil Teah 
~lint 




CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need 4 GA Pitt tix. Call George at 287·0067. 
Help! I need at least 8 GA tix for Pitt game. I will top the best offer for any ticket for that game. Call 3274 after 11 pm. 
Wanted: used bike, any speed, make. Call Andi, 7921. 
Need 2 GA Pitt tix. Call Michelle, 3665. 
Need 1 or 2 GA Pitt tix. Call Nick, 1553. 
Need 4 GA Pitt tix. Will pay good money. 277·0014 after 7. 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio, Fri. or Sat., Nov. 16 or 17. Call Barb, .tl08. 
Need 2 GA Pitt tix. Call 289·9148. 
Ride wanted to Hartford, Con. necticut, tor Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. Call Paul, 8923. 
Desperately need 5 GA Pitt tickets. Ca II 234·6405 . 
Wanted: one good condition used 1Q.speed bicycle. Call 8823. 
Waitresses waiters . cooks. Needed part.time. New bar. restaurant. Fat Wally's, 2046 S. Bend, 277 ·0570. 
Wanted: used upright piano for reasonable price. Call Mike, 1248. 
Need Pitt GA tix . call Chuck, 206 Grace, 1592. 
Full or part.time waiters. Will train. Perkins Pancake & Steak House. 2900 Cassopolis, one block south Of Toll Road, Elkhart, In· diana, exit 9. 
Need desperately 2 Pitt tickets. Call Tom, 283·1461. 
Please, I need 4 GA tix Call Camille, 5154.  tor  Pitt.  
Really need 2 GA Monica, 4489.  Pitt  tix.  Cail  

Wanted: hotel room Sat. night of Pitt weekend. Call John, 282·1568. 
Desperately need 2 or 3 Pitt tickets. Call 5464. 
Need ride west on 1·80 (Moline area) Nov. 15. Call Jane, 7995. 
Need student tix for Pitt. Call Joe, 3663. 
FOR RENT 

Room . $40 week. Near rides, privacy, kitchen. 233·1329. 
503 West Jefferson duplex 3 room furnished apartments. First and second floors. Gas heat furnished. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: brown wallet possibly at St. Mary's dance Friday. Call John, 3737. 
Man's watch found by Nickie's at 
1:22 a.m. Monday, Nov. 4. Call Kate, 289·3945. 
Lost: "costume" bracelet, Sat. flight. 8456. 
Lost: Friday evening, a set of two 
keys on a gold key chain with a red 
heart. Please help. Reward. Call 5791. 
Lost at Blues Festival: red book bag. Contents: 2 books, purse, checkbook, C I LA Christmas order forms and 8.page midterm (crucial, due tomorrow). Reward, no questions asked. Kate, 289·3945. 
FOR SALE 
One student Pitt ticket. Call Ken, 1174. 
Canon Model 7. Huge 50 mm. Fl. 2 
lens,  built·in  light  meter,  many  
other  features.  $110.  Call  Kline,  
6706.  

Three pirahna fish and tank. $150 complete. Real bargain. Phone 272·3973. 
1974 Scuba Pro diving tank and boot. Call 8253. 
Clean component sound Dynaco Pat· 4 preamp & stereo 120 AMP. $225 ARMANUAL with Shure M91ED $75. 8456. 
For sale: 2 Doobie Brothers tickets. Call Mary Ann, 4238. 
For Sale: 2 YES tix. call Bill at 288·4217 or 7471. 
NOTICES 
If you have made COR, SEARCH, TEC (and other similar type) retreats and want to help plan a retreat for Dec. 6·7·8 weekend, meet in rector's room, Grace Hall, TUES. EVENING, 7·8 p.m. 
Fr. Hesburgh will be celebrating a community THANKSGIVING MASS on Nov. 26th. HELP IS NEEDED in areas of audio visuals, constructing screen, composing prayers. If interested call 6536, 8832 or leave name at campus ministry offi<;:e, 103 Lib. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros. Eddy at Madison. Wholesale 
prices  to  ND.SMC  students,  
faculty,  and  stafl.do.it.  
yourselters.  Repair  service  also  

available. Since 1929. 234-0181. 
FINEST ZOO IN THEWORL IS IN MILWAUKEE: I have to get my friend back there Sunday!! Please call 1336 anytime, day or night! 
Will the hitchhiker who ac. cidentally took the Biophysics notebook from the brown Fiat last Tuesday please call Eddie, 277· 0167. 
For information on the lowest priced diamonds in the area, and personalized service, call a student who knows! Pat, 1149. 
Typing: experienced in term papers and dissertations. 
Reasonable,  accurate.  232·5715.  
ARE  YOU  INTERESTED  IN  
BUYING  A  NEW  CAR?  FORD,  

LINCOLN-MERCURY, PON­TIAC, OR AMC AVAILABLE. CALL 232-4736 EVENINGS BETWEEN 7:00 AND 9:00 AND ASK FOR SLICK SAM'S SALES. SERIOUSLY, GOOD PRICES ON ALL MAKES. CALL NOW TO BEAT THE THANKSGIVING RUSH. 
Tune.ups by experienced mechanics, ND students. $10 plus parts. Call John·1604 or Pete·272­1279. 
PERSONALS 

Hello! My name is Whales and there are just some people who aren't good enough for me to eat with. Sorry guys. 
Whale "Stud" Bone 

Cindy: I'm sorry a bout the unfortunate incident last Thursday and Friday. 
I still love you. Bob 

Dear Beethoven: Thanks for the call. It's nice to see somebody roll over for NO women! 
Love your chords, Lucy 

P.S. I liked your third one better. 
Bubble gum Queen: 
Will ashes in my coffee 
lead to malicious retaliation? 
The Don 

Dear Peter, Mike, Frank, Jeff, Jim, Chauncy, Tom Welch, Jerry, 
Paul, Dave, Rizzo et al: Thanks ever so much, guys!! We never could've done it without you! (Do these look like working hand· s?) I never want to see another chair! 
Tricia and Mary 
Robin, you know the name, 
The face isn't the same. 

To all the guys who helped with the 
sophomore dance: 
Thanks loads! 

Mary Lu, Mary, Kathy, Tricia 
Belated Happy 57th Birthday: Charles Parnell 
To Good Old FRED From the people he serves. Wasn't that you That we saw at the Pervs. 

Girl, 22, NY·Ch icago train: PI ease ask another "odd" question. 283·6759. 
Ed from PangbOrn: j Thank you for helping us in our moment of need Sat. nite. It's nice to know there are concerned people like you in the world. 
Toni & Mary 

To Elton John 313 Holy Cross: Is my fiance really gone forever? Stood.up in Farley 
To Anne Of Annex: Happy Birthday! Love, 3rd floor lovers 
GOD HELP DOUBLE "D." 
Cathy: I am near death. 

Will the real rose.giver please come forward. 
Lucy in the sky (with diamonds) once: Once the fool had a good part in the play, if it's true would I be here today? 
Beethoven lives!! 

.. 
--~--------------­the observer Tuesday, November 12, 1974 
Dillon. Sorin advance in pivotal Interhall contests 
by John Higgins 
Dillon, in pursuit of its fourth Interhall Football championship in the last five years, took a giant step toward that goal on Sunday, as the Big Red clinched the South Quad title with a hard-fought 20-0 win over neighboring rival Alumni on the last day of the Southern Division's regular season. 
The win, Dillon's fifth, with a tie 
against Sorin, marking its other­
wise perfect slate, was much 
closer than the final score in­
dicated. Realizing that running 
successfully against the huge, 
agressive Dillon defense was next 
to impossible, Alumni quarterback 
!<'rank Driscoll took to the air and 
moved his team like no other club 
has done this year on the Big Red 
''D". 
The Dillon defense, however, 
bent but did not break, and 
remained unscored on this season. 
With Driscoll employing four wide 
receivers and passing almost 
exclusively. the Dillon defensive 
secondary gave up an abnormal 
amount of yardage but nonetheless 
picked off six passes, two of .which 
led directly to scores, helpmg to 
blunt the Alumni threat. 
After center Frank Tombari's 

Greg Olrgan 
punt left Alumni deep in their own territory with three minutes left in the first half, freshman linebacker Pete Riley intercepted a screen pass over the middle and returned it 13 yards to the 3. Hard-driving halfback Craig Tigh hulled to the 6­inch line on the first play, and quarterback Mike O'Neill finished up on a sneak for the game's first score. Tigh went off-tackle for the two-point conversion, and Dillon led at halftime s-o. 
Early in the third period, Kevin Bolyard recovered a Dillon fumble at the Alumni 46. After two in­complete passes, Driscoll fooled everybody with a draw play by Jim Philbin which netted 13 yards and a first down, and then followed with an 11-yard toss to favorite target John Audino, who caught 6 on the day. The Alumni drive was halted on the next play, however, when rugged tackle Karl Weyand stepped in front of another screen pass and Dillon took over at the 27. 
From there, O'Neill led his of­fense 73 yards in 8 plays, one of only two drives by Dillon on the day, to up the lead to 14-0. O'Neill scampered 10 yards on a perfectly executed option to set the offense in motion, and Tom Faiver followed on a pinch sweep for 7. 

============================================================================================================:: 

The Irish Eye 

There was a banner in Spartan Stadium last Saturday at the Michigan State-Ohio State game which read, "Notre Dame says go Spartans." It may not have been as colorful as some of the others (i.e., Buck-off Woody>. but the Notre Dame sign clued the importance of just what did happen in I<~ast Lansing. 
With MSU's stunning 16-13 win, the number one rating, and con­sequently the national championship is again up for grabs. 
This past weekend, nobody, except perhaps Oklahoma and Alabama made any great strides toward grabbing it. A lot of teams moved into reverse. 
Ohio State, of course, was one of them, but Texas A & M blew a golden opportunity losing to SMU 18-14 and the surprising Florida Gators baffled people all the more by losing to Georgia 17-16. Penn State, vastly overrated, showed why by dropping their second game of the season to North Carolina State 12-7. 
Texas made a five-team race out of the Southwest Conference by losing to Baylor. Either Texas A & M, SMU, Baylor, Texas Tech or Texas teams could capture that conference crown. and gain a berth in the Cotton Bowl. 
Mediocre Michigan,which could easily have had three losses by now, slipped by Illinois 14-6, but the top two contenders for the number one spot won big. Oklahoma crushed Missouri 37-0 while Alabama ran all over LSU beating them 30-G. 
By rights both teams lay claim to the number one position. UPI will probably pick the Crimson Tide while AP should go with the Sooners. It'll be interesting to see what happens in December. 
The Irish Eye's top twenty: 

No. Weekend Results Position 
I.) Oklahoma (8-0l Beat Missouri 37-0 2 
2. 
l Alabama (9-0l Beat LSU 30-0 6 

3. 
l Michigan (9-G) Beat Illinois 14-6 3 

4. 
l Ohio State (8-1) Lost to Michigan State 16-13 1 

5. 
l Notre Dame (7-1) Did not play 7 6.) Auburn (8-ll Beat Mississippi State 24-20 4 7.) Nebraska (7-2) Beat Iowa St'ate 23-13 12 


R. l Texas A&M (7-2) Lost to SMU 18-14 11 9.) Florida <7-2) Lost to Georgia 17-16 18 
10. l Southern Cal (6-1-ll Beat Stanford 34-10 5 ll.) North Carolina State <8-2) Beat Penn State 12-7 9 
12. 
l Pittsburgh <7-2) Beat Temple 35-24 unranked 

13. 
l Houston (6-2) Did not play unranked 14.> Penn State <7-2) Lost to NC State 12-7 17 15.) Miami<Ohiol <8-G-ll Beat Kent State 19-17 20 


16. 
l Yale <7-0l Beat Penn 34-12 unranked 

17. 
l Maryland <6-2) Beat Villanova 41-0 unranked 

18. 
l Oklahoma State (5-3) Beat Kansas State 29-5 unranked 

19. 
l California (6-2-ll Beat Washington 52-26 unranked 20.) Texas (6-3) Lost to Baylor 34-24 14 


and the worst ten: 

1.) Wake Forest <0-9) Lost to Duke 23-7 I 
2. l Columbia <1-6) Lost to Dartmouth 21-0 2 3.) Oregon <2-7) Lost to UCLA 21-o 5 
4. l U of T Arlington 0-8) Beat Pacific unranked 5.) Utah (1-7) Beat New Mexico 21-10 3 
6. l Indiana <1-8) Lost to Northwestern 24-22 unranked 
7.l Florida State 0-8) Beat Miami unranked 8.) Citadel (1-8) Lost to Navy 28-21 unranked 
9. l TCU <1-8) Lost to Texas Tech 28-o unranked 10.) Air Force (2-7) Lost to Army 17-16 unranked After Tigh got 5 yards on 4th and 1, the shifty senior QB darted 42 yards off the option to set up Tigh's 3-yard bolt into the end zone and as the third quarter ended. 
In the closing minutes of the game, Tombari, who averaged 48 yards on 3 punts, including a 68­yarder in the opening period, backed Alumni to its own 18 with a booming kick 4 plays after Mickey Gleason's interception aborted Alumni's last drive. On second down, the two Alumni receivers split left jumped offsides, and as they tried to return, Driscoll fired to the sidelines. Cornerback Kevin McLoughlin hauled in the misguided aerial, his second theft of the game, and sailed 22 yards untouched for the final score. 
With the game safely in hand, former Dillon quarterback Geoff Pampush, subbing for the vacationing Coach Mike Bireley, let the linemen leave the trenches and shoot for some glory of their own. Tigh switched positions with Guard Roy Kolstad, whose con­version run following the last TD was just short when Tigh, inex­perienced in such things, missed his block on the line. And Kolstad's running mate tackle Rod Rodrique turned up in the defensive secondary on Alumni's last series and intercepted a long bomb as the game ended to preserve the shutout. 
Things were not quite as com­fortable for the Red in the early going, however. On the opening series of the contest. Alumni (1-4­1 l looked like it was aiming to pull the lnterhall upset of the year. Audino took a screen pass 23 yards to the Dillon 46, and Driscoll connected with Bolyard for 12, despite a tremendous pass rush Jed by Kevin Moffatt, Bob Derdak, Chuck Brewer and Riley, who spent most of the day chasing Driscoll and forced most of the passes which were picked off. Riley then got to the beleaguered Driscoll for a 12-yard loss, but a personal foul neutralized the sack. Driscoll came back with 8-yarders to Bolyard and Audino, but a 3rd­and-2 pass from the 16 just missed in the end zone and a rollout failed to pick up the first down, and Dillon had weathered the first storm. 
The Alumni defense, headed by Angelo Buffalino, Mark Calliari, and Pete Chimento, played notably throughout in containing the bruising Dillon ground game. Calliari threw O'Neill for a 19 yard loss to foil the Big Red's first possession, and after Kevin Donohoe recovered an Alumni fumble to give Dillon an excellent scoring opportunity at the 24, Chimento got the ball right back by forcing a Dillon bobble. 
When a 25-yarder pass play was nullified by a procedure penalty, Alumni was forced to punt from deep in its territory, but errors continued to plague Dillon. O'Neill returned the kick 10 yards to the enemy 34, but a penalty for blocking below the waist set them back to mid-field. An 8-yard blast by Joe Riepenhoff and 3 Tigh runs got Dillon to the 28, but an of­fensive pass interference in­fraction ended the threat. Soon after, the interception bug hit Alumni and they fell behind for good, as Dillon took prime ad­vantage of the miscues to capture the division championship. 
Powerful Sorin flexed its of­fensive muscles and enjoyed the highest scoring output in an In­terhall contest this season. They trounced outmanned Howard 34-0 on a 300-plus yards offensive performance. Quarterback John Lonsberg accounted for 175 of them and 3 touchdowns with a brilliant 10-12 passing per­formance. Mike Chute was the 

----------~----­

As seen above, hard hitting was the dominant force behind IH games Sunday. When the action ended, P-F, Sorin and Dillon were victors. 
recipient on two of the scormg tosses, one a 75-yarder, and added a 2-point conversion. Mike Bonifer hauled in the other TD pass on a 40­yard tackle-eligible deception, his second such catch of the day. Norb Schickelled the ground game with 67 yards and 1 TD, and Tom Foristel added a 2-point con­version. 
The defensive standouts for Sorin were Tom Gillespie, who blocked two punts and had an interception, and Jack Crowley, who also picked off a pass and scored a touchdown on Gillespie's first block. Mike Fahey added a third interception, as the Sorin defense limited Howard to 65 total yards. 
Sorin, which improved from a lone win in 1973 to a 4-1-1 season and challenged favorites Morrrissey and Dillon for the championship, were easi,ly the surprise team of the league, behind the dedicated leadership of their coach. Dr. James Carberry, and team captains John Hutton and Bill Eble. 
In the final game of the South Quad season, Pangborn-Fisher won its second game of the year and captured fourth place in the division as it crushed hapless St. Joe's 19-0. Touchdown passes of 22, 53, and 20 yards from Bill Sahm to Tom Kirby accounted for all the scormg, and the rushing of fullback Steve Thomas paced the ground attack. The final TD was scored on the last play of the game, using a bit of sandlot trickery. Sahm threw an intentional "bounce-pass" lateral to Kirby near the sidelines, who feigned disappointement in the "in­completion", the deception which fooled the St. Joe defenders who though the play was dead, and Kirby raced unmolested into the Pnd zone. Linebacker Mike Casey was the backbone of the P-F defense in his first start of the year. 
The North Quad returns to action after a 4-week layoff Wednesday evening at Cartier Field, with unbeaten Holy Cross meeting 4-1 Stanford at 8 p.m. with the division title a stake. Cavanaugh-Keenan precedes at 7, and the Towers, l<'lanner-Grace, match up at 9. 
The Standings 
South North 

Dillon 5-G-1 Holy Cross 5-0-0 
Morrissey· 5-1-0 Stanford 4-1-0 
Sorin 4-1-1 Flanner 3-2-0 
Pangborn 2-3-1 Grace 2-2-1 
Alumni 1-4-1 Keenan 2-3-0 
Howard 1-4-1 Zahm 1-4-1 St. Joe 0-5-1 Cavanaugh 0-5-0 
Soccer team beaten 
by John DeCoursey Notre Dame scored their first goal against Purdue early in the first half on a close shot by Terry
The Irish soccer squad dropped Finnegan. Purdue tied the game two more games over the weekend when the Irish defense left a man to lower their record to 6-7-1. The open close to the goal. University of Cincinnati broke 
Notre Dame pulled into the lead open a close game in the second when Tom Pollihan scored on a 
half and went on to defeat the Irish fast break. Later in the first half,4-0 Friday night, while Purdue Tom Bernardin, Irish forward was came from behind and beat the knocked unconscious for a few 
Irish in a fight-filled contest 3-2 on 
seconds when he crashed into Sunday. Purdue's six-lour goalie as he was attempting to head in a
The first goal came with 10 penalty kick.
minutes left in the first half. Cincy attempted a penalty kick, but it Midway into the second half, was deflected to the side by goalie Purdue tied the contest, scoring on Mark Klein, and the ball remained a breakaway by their excellent in the penalty area for twenty lineman Bob Soyode. Soyode, an 
seconds as none of the Irish extremely fast dribbler, beat the defenders cleared it. Finally, a Irish fullbacks and put the ball into Cincy player put the ball in the net the lower left corner for the score. for the goal. With a minute left in the game, 
In the second half, Cincinatti Purdue scored the winning goal 
outraced the Irish fullbacks to when the Irish defense let a Purdue score three easy breakaways. The lineman get open in front of the second goal of the game was goal, to make the final score 3-2, scored 15 minutes into the second. Purdue. 
half, the third goal can.e tive The A team closes out its season 
minutes later, and the final oc­with a game Wednesday afternoon curing with 15 seconds left the against Wisconsin Parkside at 3:30 
game. 
at Stepan Field. 








