~--~----~ -~--------------­


Local Bars 
... page 3 
Angela Davis 
... page 6 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 11 Thur:sday, September 12, 1974 
Goals set for voter registration 
by David Bender 
Staff Reporter 
Three thousand registered students by Monday is the goal of the 
student government's current registration drive. Registration 
chairman Rich O'Conner said he was not satisfied with the turnout 
so far but "response is picking up." 
Student. leaders hope to establish a Notre Dame "lobby" in the 
Indiana State Legislature by a strong registration count of Notre 
Dame students. 
The campaign in its present form, tables at the dining halls and in 
La Fortune, will shift to a higher gear by tonight, r1eported 
O'Connor. "A telephone campaign will be launched beginning this 
evening, and will continue through the weekend with the operation 
winding down by the end of the weekend'', says the chairman. 
"Those who have already registered will have their names 
crossed off a computerized student body list, while the rest will be 
contacted and reminded of the importance of registering to vote in 
Indiana", finished O'Connor. 
The registration is currently being conducted by "deputized" 
students, but under the responsibility of St. Joseph County , stated Student Body President Pat McLaughlin. The SBP feels that it was the student government's job to provide the vehicle for the drive, and put it into operation, but from that point on it is and has been 
the responsibility of the county. 
There are six reasons why students should register to vote in 
Indiana, McLaughlin explained, but the main one is to create 
enough political punch to influence a change in the IndiaQa state 
legal drinking age from 21 to 18. 
Figures from the 1972 elections indicate that Notre Dame cast 39 
per cent of the vote of this precinct in the Presidential race, while 
the University students accounted for 44 per cent of the precinct 
vote for governor, and 54 per cent for county treasurer. 61.4 per 
cent of the Democratic vote in the last Congressional election was 
cast by Notre Dame students. 
"In 1972, 2,000 votes would have swung any election in the 
county.. , reported 0 'Connor. A student bloc vote of 2,000 or more in 
the Assembly election November 5 will have a strong impact on the 
stands of the candidates on the drinking question," added 
McLaughlin. 
The student government currently plans to invite the two can­
didates for this district's representative in the Indiana StatE: House 
to the campus so students will have a chance to evaluate the two 
men, and hear their views on the lower drinking age proposal. 
O'Connor feels that politicians generally respect their electorate, 
and if the barrier to their election is a "no" vote on lowering the 
legal age for drinking, then "They will certainly vote in our favor". 
What are the::hancesfor a lower drinking age bill to be passed 
soon? McLaughlin refused to speculate but O'Connor ventured that 
the chances are good that such a bill could be passed by late 
January or early February when the newly elected state legislators 
take office. "It all depends, onceagain on how many registered 
voters we have to confront the candidates with," reiterated 
McLaughlin and O'Connor. 
Besides the lower drinking age issue, O'Connor feels there are 
five other major reasons why Notre Dame students should ll"egister 
to vote in Indiana. 

Student Body leaders hope a large voter's registration by students will strengthen their lobbying eHorts. 
He points out that a student spends 9 months a year for four years at Notre Dame. "Most students are not concerned too much about change within their own state because there is no great effect on them. There is a direct effect of Indiana laws on the student, however, and he is consequently more concerned with what is happening at ND". 
Federal Census reports count Notre Dame students as Indiana residents, and students should have a say in spending any Federal grants that arise out of such a report, he argued. 
Two other points cited by O'Connor are the short thirty day residency requirement, and the fact that no other registrations, such as drivers licenses, vehicle registration, etc. need be changed. It is just ilS easv to cancel your registration here as it is to make it, adds O'Connor. 
The immediate effect of the voter registration drive in lowering the drinking age will not be known until Bob Ducomb and Dick Bodine (this district's assembly candidates) come to Notre Dame and explain their feelings on the drinking issue. The long range impact will be known at the polls November 5 and in the next session of the Indiana legislature. 
Moreover, O'Connor pointed out that a student spends about$5,000 a year in Indiana and is therefore entitled to have a say in the state politics. 
Wernig new VP of Student Affairs 
llllllllllllllllllllliUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIHUIDUIIIIIIRUIIIDIIIHIIIIIII 
Position filled at SMC 
WARNING 
by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 

Many St. Mary's students are asking who the new Dean of Students is, now that Kathleen Mullaney is gone. The answer is that there is no longer a dean of students at· SMC. 
Instead of a dean of students, now there is an Assistant totheVice President of Student Affairs. Miss Stevie Wernig, was appointed assi~tant to Dr. Mary Alice Can­non, Vice President of Student Affairs. "The new office was created in an attempt to set up each of the four vice-presidents with the same systems," explained Wernig. "Furthermore, the dean was viewed as a discipline figure, rather than an educator or someone here to help the students." "In a community government system, no one person should bear 
the brunt of the discipline problems that come up. For in­stance, I will be working closely with the Hall Council, Hall Directors and the Judicial Board; group decisions are usually superior to individual ,decision," Wernig added. 
Wernig's new position is similar to Gail Mandell's position as assistant to the Vice-President of Academic Affairs. "I see my role as a coordinator and a facilitator, to help people get things done, which is what Gail Mandell does in the academic area,"noted Wernig. 
The Student Affairs offices, with the exception of the health service, are located on the first floor of Le Mans Hall, north of the lobby. "The idea of any student affairs office is to be a one-stop area where students can get help, and if we can't help them directly we'll roefer them to someone who can, •' said Wernig. 
Others working in Student Af­fairs are Karen O'Neil, Director of Housing; Dr. Suzanne B. Areson, Director of Counseling; Gail Ritchie, assistant to the Director of Counseling; Tom Ott, counseling intern; and Verna B. Wood, R.N., director of Health Services. 
Wernig was recently Director of Student Affairs at St. Joseph's College in Connecticut. Wernig graduated from St. Mary's in 1968 and studied for her masters in college administratifm at the University of Denver. "One of the best things about this job is the relaxed atmosphere. Everyone is friendly and really interested in helping the students and getting to know them >personally,'' she commented. 
Students are warned that a young man posing as a magazine subscription salesman is going door to door in several residence halls without the necessary ap­proval of the Dean of Students. Notre Dame Security has been notified and is investigating. 
The man went door to door yesterday in Zahm Hall and sold an estimated $160 worth of magazines, ac­cording to Zahm rector Fr. Thomas Tallarida. 
The man also sold subscirptions in Flanner Hall Tuesday and Keenan Hall yesterday. 
The man is described by Notre Dame Security as a tall black male of 23 or 24 years of age, weighing about 140 pounds, wilh medium length hair. The man claimed he was Ed Kelly and he worked for "Op­portunities Service Company". 
Security has been given a sketch of the man. 

IIIDI-IDDIIIDIIHIIIIIRIIIbllnlilll&i&W&& MIUMIDII 
-------------------------------------------------~~.---­
----~--------~----~ ----~-----~------------~----­
the obseryer 

Thursday, September 12, 1974 
warld 
briefs 
CHICAGO <UPI) -Portugal rushed commandos into the em­battled Mozambique capital of Lourenco Marques Wednesday to put down rioting by black mobs angry over an attempt by white supremacists to seize power. Hundreds were reported killed in the disorders. 
SEOUL <UPI> -Riot police outnumbered almost five to one used tear gas Wednesday to beat back thousands of Koreans trying to march on the Japanese embassy in continuing demonstrations stemming from the attempt to assassinate President Park Chung­hee last month. 
CHICAGO (UPI) -The newspaper Beirut said Wednesday Moscow has given Egypt 50 MIG 23 supersonic jetfighters-the most advance warplane in the Soviet arsenal-in resuming weapons shipments to Cairo. 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. <UPI> -An Eastern Air Lines DC-9 jet descending through patches of fog on approach to the Charlotte airport Wednesday clipped treetops, plowed into a ravine and exploded, killing 69 of the 83 passengers aboard. 
PINEHURST, N.C. <UPI> -President Ford, an an apparent 
reference to his controversial pardon of President Nixon, told an 
audience of golf enthusiasts Wednesday that "understanding and 
reconciliation" are as important in government as in athletics. 
He stunned the gallery, and perhaps himself, by outdriving 
Arnold Palmer and Gary Player Wednesday on the first hole of an 
exhibition golf match. 

an campus taday 
9:00a.m. -all day, workshop, "supervision in social work" $4.00 registration fee. contact Mr mrs. pilge 284-4462, carroll hall, smc. 
4:00p.m., lecture, "some history of radiation chemistry" by milton burton, conf. room in rad. lab. free. 
7:30 p.m., lecture, "faulkner" by deanna Sokolowski, rm. 147 madeleva mem., free 
8:00p.m., recital, steve haaser and john fisher, little theatre., free 


FRESHMEN: 
New assistant dean of students 
Mrs. M~Cabe appointed 
by Norman Bauer Staff Reporter 

Mrs. Mary Clare McCabe, formerly of the R.A. program, has been appointed as Notre Dame's first assistant dean of students. She replaces Fr. Terry Lall) who has moved up to assistant vice president of student affairs. 
In speaking of priorities, the new assistant dean noted that a major goal of the department should be "to create opportunities for students to become responsible 
decision-makers in  the  areas  of  
their own lives."  
Over  the  past  three  years  

McCabe has been active in the campus program for instruction of dormitory resident . assistants. This year for the first time, the RA's will receive two credits for their in-service training and for their participation in weekly lecture and discussion sessions. 
In her new capacity, McCabe stresses the need for com­munication. She has observed Student Life Council meetings and plans to attend a session of the Hall President's Council soon. She says she is always available for con­sultation. 
On her agenda for the next month are meetings with representatives of the Northern Indiana Drug Abuse Center and the South Bend Council on Alcoholism. After these discussions, McCabe will meet with various campus officials and staff members on these areas of major concern. 
McCabe has had experience in counseling and guidance. She has served most recently as an assistant in Ackerman's office and has worked as a volunteer coun­selor at the Elkhart County Probation Agency. 
The Observer ts pubHihed dally durlng the college semnter except vacations by the stuoenta or the University of Notre Dame end St. M11rv's College. Sublcrlptlonl mew be purchased for Sl per semester (S14 per vearl from The Olltterver Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana •6556. SeCOftd clesa postage paid, Notre Dime, Ind. •6556. 



~::.--~-~-:_ 


1421 S. Walnut Street (219) 233~9441 South Bend, Indiana 46627 
Communication and opportunities for students in decision-making will be stressed by.Mrs. McCabe in her new role of assistant dean of students. 

* SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION* 
PRESENTS 
*EASY RIDER* 

WHERE~: WHEN: 
CARROLL HALL 
FRIDAY t/13 AT MADELEVA 
SATURDAY 9/1 
8 PM AND 1 0 PM B 0 T H NIT E S 
ICE SKATING 
-:;? 
THE 
.,_/-;7--~-I 



Pick Up Their Freshman Registers 
TODAY and TOMORROW'· FROM 2·4:30P.M. In The Lafortune . Ballro.om
' 
I' t-It' I If 
SENIOR HOCKEY AT THE "ICE BOX" 
Pro Shop -Skate Sharpening -2 Rinks -Public 
Skating -Figure Skating -Lessons -Snacks ­
Arcade-Skate Rental-Free Parking 
SEN·IOR HOCKEY-"CHECK" AND "NO CHECK" DIVISIONS­Play in either or both divisions -16 men per team -Locker rooms with showers available-16 game season with holiday tourney and playoffs-Jerseys and referees furnished -$3.50 per game -Game times 9:15pm and 10:45 pm. SIGN UP NOW for league starting
October 18th. 

For more information on this and our other programs call (219} 
233-9441 

• •••••••••••••••••••••••• SEN lOR HOS:KEY•••••••••••••••••••••••••• I. APPLICATION--­
---SEND MORE INFORMATION Fri. "CHECK" --­
---AGE Sun. "NO CHECK"--­
POSITION 

Name---------------------------------------­
Address-------------------------------Phone------­

----------------------~ -----­
~-------------­
Thursday, September 12, 1974 _the observel' 
Area police checking local bars 

by Matt Yokom Staff Reporter 

South Bend Police checked forunderage patrons and outside drinking in two Notre Dame student bars early Tuesday morning. The check at Corby's and Nickie's resulted in the arrest of a 26 year old South Bend resident outside of Nickie's. 
The incident occurred when police stopped a student leaving Corby's with a cup. The student did not have an alcoholic beverage which would have been against the law. He was underage but was not arrested for leaving a bar. 
The officers then entered the bar, looked around, and talked briefly with the bartender. Upon returning to their squad car they discovered that beer had been 
No decision reached yet on psychology building 
Physical changes, however, are
By Catherine Brown 

not the only transformations that
Staff Reporter 

Hoynes Hall has undergone. 
University Archivist Fr. Thomas 
Plans for the building, located E. Blanz noted that the building
between La Fortune Student has successively lodged the 
Center and Hayes-Healy Center, engineering department, 
are presently under consideration. chemistry department, the Hoynes 
The move of the psychology Law School, the architecture 
department to its new home in department and most recently the 
Haggar Hall on the North Quad has psychology department. 
left Hoynes Hall, or the "old Psych As a result of the recent move of 
Building" as it is more popularly its last tenant, the hall is not being 
known, locked up and unused so far used for classes or any other 
this year. purpose. 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, 
university provost said, "The C • 
decision concerning the building's use lies with the Officers of the university, a~ do. a~l decisions 
about academic buildmgs". Burtchaell mentioned that "several possibilities are beingdiscussed" but that no plans have been decided upon. The provost refused to comment further on the pos~ibi~ities for the building's use, saymg It would be "premature" to do so. Burtchaell did predict that a decision regarding the future of Hoynes Hall would be made "sometime this semester". 
Hoynes Hall's history has in­cluded a great diversity of names and inhabitants. The original structur~, built in 1890, was called the Institute of Technology, and housed the engineering depart­ment. 
Since that time, fire, which ocurred "around the end of the nineteenth century", according to Jay J. Kane, assistant director of Information Services, reduced the original three-story structure to its present two-story form. 

men.., hail 1tyling 

en's hair Stylin 
~n&~ir Bttttin 
WHATEVER THE
.. 





;;:~~:t:t)M
S HAIR CARE FOR NE 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA,IND. 46544 
poured on the vehicle. 
The officers then entered Nickie's and checked iden­tifications for proofs of age. All proved to be of legal drinking age. 
While in Nic;kie's the police asked the bartender not to serve a pat~:on that the officers considered intoxicated. The individual then left Nickie's; The police believed that he was having trouble walking and arrested him for public in­toxication. The man charged was not a Notre Dame student. 
Bartenders at the two bars felt that the problem of underage students is not only a problem for students but also for the bar owners. Joe Mell, part owner of Corby's, felt that while students can get in trouble for fake ID's, the majority of blame is put upon the owners. 
ampus securlty 

keeps close cheCk 

·11 a}

on 1  eg  par.....~~.&.l!t..J  
by Chris Bock Staff Reporter  
Cars  parked  illegally  or  

receiving more than five citations will be towed away, according to Arthur Pears, chief of Notre Dame security. 
Cars failing to display a registration decal will also be towed away. The cars will be ,.~.,..........,. ... ~...........~...~.....~.,.........~...~....~.,....~.,.......,..~..... 
taken to local towing companies where a fee will be charged for the release of the car. Pears explained that security has a problem with &tudents failing to register their cars every year. 
"Everyone who owns a car knows the rules," Pears stated. "We encourage everyone to read the student manual, particularly the section on traffic regulations." 
The bars can be fined, put on probation, or face the possibility of being closed, explained a Nickie's bartender Tom Gilholly. Another bartender felt that usually police weren't looking to bust a student but that blatant violations, such as drinking outside, may lead to students being arrested and initiate police checks of iden­tifications. 
There also is periodic sur­veillance of taverns and bars by the South Bend Police and the Indiana State Excise Police. Both organizations have out of uniform officers that spot check the bars. A possible city-wide crackdown on vice may result from allegations made by police officers that their superiors told them not to make arrests in certain sections of the city. The Notre Dame bar area was not one of those areas that officers had specified. 
Several bartenders felt that the

ahe lVinJjammer 
Directions from campus: South Bend's only complete Hair Care Center 
1. Go west on Angela, for the sexes, four expert stylists are ready to cross U.S. 31 and serve you, complete with the full line of continue to Lincoln famous RK products. Call now. All services 
Wav West by appointment, so you don't have to wait! ' 2. Turn right. 
3. Spot the Windjammer 
mip on 

the right!t7he WinJiammer 
1637 Lincoln Way W. 232-6622 
BEST MEALS IN TO~ 
EVERYDAY OF THE WEEK 



"~t ~lBBJRr 
···~ ~··· 
MEALS INalDE: 
*TUREEN OF SOUP *BREAD & BUTTER *SALAD 
*PASTA *FRIES 
Lasagna ... ; $2.00 
Perch . . . . $2.00 Chicken .... $2.00 
Sirloin .... $2.20 Rib Eve .... $2.35 
Ravioli . -... $2.00 Spaghetti ... . $2.00 
HOUSE SPECIALTY: CHICKEN CACCIATORE 

a complain is filed of the South 
were going to be in the area for 
Bend Police ask them to come into 
awhile. The Excise police not only an area. 


~~ ~ ~ -~ -----~---------------~---~~ 
A~' INDEPENDENT STUDFNT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Ann McCarry Editorial Editor  Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  
Bob Zogas Business Man<=ger  Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob McManus Advertising Manager  

Thursday, September 12, 1974 


A statement, not a rule 
1 •H.• time has arrived for this univer­Affairs, announced the veto of the sity, through the Student Life Council, to sexuality rule passed by a na:rrow 11-8 establish their position on sexual margin last spring. The rule was so morality, on and off campus, with a vague that when seven different mem­written statement. A statement -not a bers of the SLC were asked for their in­rule. terpretations after its passage last year, 
Hopefully, Father Hesburgh's veto, seven different and conflicting views announced at the SLC last Monday, in­were expressed.dicates a profound disappointment with The proposed rule had specified that the decision the council yielded last May. any on-campus student found involved in The closeness of the vote, and the penalty sexual relations outisde of marriage of exile from the campus would seem to would be asked to leave the "on-campus have been obvious causes for his community." Alas, a comparison of off­dissatisfaction. campus living to a penal colony? 
But more importantly, his veto must So now the original rule remains in now serve as a measure to everyone of effect with its designed ambiguities. this university that legislation of an Although the rule states only a belief enforceable Ia w on sexual morality is not "that sexual union should occur only in possible. Father Hesburgh recognized an marriage," subsequent interpretation by inadequacy in the proposed law as well as the Dean of Students office has included in the existing law and with complete the unwritten rule of suspension for a knowledge of the genuine debate with "suspected" violator as witnessed in the which it was drawn. May his interpreted Dillon Hall Case last year. concern be the model which is copied. But we are now at a different time, and 
With last Monday's announcemnt of let us hope a new era. Notre Dame should Father Hesburgh's veto of the com­be expected to guide her men and women promise ruling passed last May, the door morally into that new era. But our need of ambiguity was again swung wide open. now is for her defined and stated 
That door now needs to be shut once guidance -not a rule. and for all. And neither the SLC, Student Our Catholic tradition deserves no less. Affairs or Father Hesburgh are going to Let us then leave the responsibility for accomplish this by searching for an all­enfocement of this statement to each inclusive Ia w on sexual morals. Morality student and other members of the Notre can not be enforced, it can only be taught. Dame community. Let the University 
This fact must be recognized and then instruct, not dictate. Only for those with followed by a statement of position rather a shallow and insincere regard for their than an enforced law by the University. fellow man will this proposal seem ab­
Referring to an undisclosed letter from surd. Father Hesburgh, which without ex­Let each of us compromise our policies planation is uncharacteristic of the and not our principles. University president, Brother Just 
Tom DrapeP aczesny, vice-president of Student 

the Frantic One 
fred graver-
It was two thirty-two, this he knew well. The Frantic One took a quick look at the gold detex box, calculated in his mind what it was for, and then ripped open the door. 
He had no idea what he was doing. 

He was led up finely carpeted stairs towards a library. His escort's voice said, "Follow me." "Might as well as not." The escort then entered into large, solid oak door. The Frantic One 
stood watching him like a poor man seeing his last five dollars stashed into a savings account. He did not follow the escort, moving instead toward a vision in the library. 
She sat at a desk fifteen feet high. She was in charge of the books on the upper three shelves of the library, where the Frantic One had never looked. 
She had a beautiful... .... He tried and tried, but couldn't think of a word for it. He just knew that he was seeing a beautiful ...... . 
He would make his move, but not without calculation. 

With a feeling of relief, he retreated to the bathroom. There, he saw the usual urinals, stalls, a water fountain, and a large oak table with chairs around it. This is where the anti-intellectuals met. There were copies of MAD magazine strewn on the table, and a copy of "The Waste Land" with a bloody knife stuck into it. 
He bent down to take a drink from the fountain. It left the fountain, rose to a great height, then came cascading down like a waterfall. Just like a waterfall. Like the waterfall on a Coor's can, all silver and metallic with distinguishing black lines running through. 
He caught himself in the mirror. 
And awoke. 

"Amazing," he thought, "I look just like myself when I dream." 
The alarm went off. 

"Jesus, I hate that," and he truly did hate waking shortly before the alarm. He felt cheated, like a gambler who knows beforehand the outcome of his bet. 
He went into the shower. The drains there had been backed up for years, and small creatures and plants had begun to take root. In fact, the room had begun to resemble hot, muggy Hawaii in its finest, early primal moments. Before missionaries had come in. 
On a good morning, emerging from the stall to dry, a young Hawaiian beauty would reach from the flora to hand you a hollowed coconut filled with warm nectar, a lily floating atop the steam. 
"At best," he thought. 

Dressing, he faced the awesome task of reconciling his shoes. The laces had long since lost the proper sense of belonging to their respective eyelets. To make them work at all, he had to compromise and negotiate each section of lace with each eyelet. The shoes ended up looking like the demise of the Eiffel Tower. 
The laces protested this arrangement, but with some sweet talking, the Frantic One could make them do anything at all. Everything struck him as having the wrong angles in relation to everything else when he walked out the door. The people, particularly were in distorted perspective, were set in the wrong positions. This irritated him. The feeling passed quickly, though, to make room for an older and more familiar one, a set attitude of disdain. 
He hated people. He despised them, had little use for them, had even less use for them when they needed him. He shunned them, resisted them with a passsion. 
As a child he spit a lot. Like a snake. Seated in his first class, back row, window seat, he surveyed the first row. 
This served to support his theories. Those pepole are supremely stupid, he believed. When he felt inferior, he could think about these kind of people and regain his spirit. 
He made up characters, stories, lives for each of them. The details were vulgar, so he knew they were stupid because of the way they lived. 
He placed them on a mental list: 

--Dame Antigone DuMont. The closest thing to Margaret DuMont, foil of the Marx Brothers, he had met. She wasn't a bad looking girl, in fact he would have easily admitted to what a nice body she had, but she put him off by the way she was so tight, so hard to get to. She was slso, as he once said, "the biggest downer on campus." One night he told her date to pray to St. Jude, patron of "hopeless causes." 
--Eddie Doublemonger. Senior, switched from Pre-Med to American Studies in the latter part of Junio year, after it became awesomely apparent he wasn't going to make it. He still had a pre­med strain in him, though, and would confound the Frantic One oc­casionally with comments like "get to the blood and bones of this, then we can discuss it" or "to understand, we must pick apart the brains and vital organs of an argument." 
-( ) . Just another blank in life's parentheses. Typical status-quo zero. Big smile for others, if they fit into the plan. Really didn't care if a smile came back just wanted to keep in practice with the flashy stuff. 
-Tubs. To understand this man's body, you had to have the kind of mind that can comprehend just what made tail fins so appealing on old Cadillacs. His eyes were too big for his head, which was too big for his neck, which wasn't big enough at all for his huge torso, which carried two wimps for arms, and his legs ended in sharp wing-tipped-tail-fins of feet. He sweated a great deal with the exertion spent making the professor KNOW Tubs was involved in the class. 
Fantasizing, list upon list, exhausted him by the end of class, and it took most of the walk to lunch to regroup his vital energies. Soon, he found himself would up and ready. He saw a writer "friend" of his and figured on ripping into him for a while. 
(continued on page 6) 
DOONESBURY 
PHIUOOYI 
50 7HE 816 HI YA. SHOT TERRORIST MO{(T: FINALLY STlJPSrli 
BY TO SAY 
HcUO! 
\ 
.r KNOk/YOV lfiONOE/?.FU/... 

HAVE, 110/l.T MAN, YOUR 
by Garry Trudeau 
50 HAVEN'T 

I BEeN OiffF!T­1MOfF TO TING YOU/?. FAMILY WAR, MORT. fO~ ARM&O NE&OSOM& COMBAT FOR 
NCW 7H/?£AI)S. OV&~ THIRTY Y&A!<S?
I I 
the observer 

Night Editor: Mike Strlckroth Asst. Night Editor: "My Marlene" Layout: Martha Fanning, Joe 
Kanabrockl. Karl Weinfurtner, Tom Thanas, Bob Varettoni 

Copy Editor:  Pat Hanifin  
Day Editor:  Greg Bangs  
Editorials:  Ann McCarry  
Sports:  Greg  Corgan,  Pete  
McHugh  
Typists:  Tom  Modglin,  Jim  
Landis, Barb Norcorss  

Compugraphic: Howard Halle Picture Screener: Albert D'An­tonio Night Controllers: Howard Halle, Tim Murphy 
Happy Birthday to G. C., B. A. papa and Sassy. Manny Happy returns. And (we can't forget that( many felicitations on this most glorious and becoming occasslon! 
-~~~---~
------~-------­
THE OBSERVER In which we meet 
7HI?# 

Poll reflects on Infirmary 
by Mary Fran Hayes Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Student Infirmary received a generally favorable response from students polled in a recent survey. Student responses have already led to a "speeding up of services," said Sr. Miriam Doloras, infirmary administrator. 
"The questionaire was an at­tempt to get the students' attitudes about the infirmary in such areas as how they were received by personnel and were they satisfied with the services they had used," Sister said. "I was disappointed that we did not have a larger response to the survey." she ad­ded. The questionaire was given to 347 students entering the in­firmary, and 560 other students responded to a mailed questionaire. The students were men and women, on-campus and off-campus, freshmen and upper calssmen. 
"The infirmary was given a favorable response by most of the students who had used it, but the response was unfavorable from those who just had 1heresay evidence." explained Sister. 
One change has already come about as a result of the survey. "There was a problem of too much traffic in the Clinic, and we felt that student's privacy was being invaded." stated Sister. "Upon realizing that most of the traffic was due to excessive allergy cases, we moved the allergy services and established specific hours for allergy treatments, thus speeding up the services of the infirmary." 
The final results of the survey should ·be ready for publication soon. Sr. Miriam Dolores stressed that she needs to know the opinions of the student 1 body before she can enact any changes. 
One question that she felt students had was why the in­firmary did not have x-ray equipment. "X-ray equipment is expensive and requires the ser­vices of a radiologist. Since the infirmary has no idea of how many students a day will need this service, to add a trained radiologist to our staff would be an added expense. The hospitals are close enough to campus so that the inconvenience is not that great." 
Off campus life on campus 
Augusta Hall experiment 
Augusta Hall was opened this. increase enough to move forty year as an experimental living students into a new dorm. arrangement for a small number 
Once the Board of Regentsof responsible seniors. Forty-six passed the proposal, letters weregirls live in the SMC hall which is sent out to all seniors . andtrying to create a different kind of workshops were held for interested experience in community living for students last March. 'TheSaint Mary's students. 
workshops decided exactly how the dorm would be run and under what Marty Kabbbes, the senior who 
rules.
introduced the concept of using Augusta, said the idea struck her Students are completely one night last · October when she "running their own show," said 
and some friends were discussing Dr. Susie Areson, SMC Director of the pro's and con's of living off-Counseling. "They make their own campus. They finall~, decided to rules except for male visitation 
l?ok for a way .~o get off~ampus hours which have to follow Saint hfe on Caf!!pus, ~abbes satd. The ! Mary's regulations." 
whole Idea mcluded self-responsible dorm regulations and After workshops , Kabbes.
thus more independence for the continued, "There were roomresident. 
picks where everyone decided where they wanted to live. We sat 
Kabbes said Dr. Edward Henry, and talked till everyone was former SMC president, was very happy." enthusiastic about her idea and helped her to guide the proposal Augusta Hall Representative through all the channels before Moira Londergan said "Augusta is reaching the Board of Regents. much more a community than any The proposal encountered dif­other dorm, and is a good tran­ficulty because the Board of sition before graduation, where Regents couldn't predict whether everything will be your own Saint Mary's enrollment would responsibility." 
"There is much less tension because there is no fear of authority and no one is subject to the Judicial Board. There is no problem of stealing, because with a sm.all group, everybody knows everybody and is very cooperative. 
Augusta is also more conducive to studying," Londergan concludes. 
Augusta resident Mary Ellen Vonesh said the "atmosphere is a lot freer. It's nice to know we have 
the  choice  of  making  our  own  
rules.  All  the  kids  are  really  
close."  

The choice of making rules and enforcing the visitation rule is up to the students alone, Kabbes observed. "But," she exp1a'ined "the temptation just isn't there. On the ground floor there is a living room, a parlour, a library and a dining room to entertain men in, and two big meeting rooms on the first floor." 
Londergan added, "It's (Augusta) run like a home, and I hope to see the project expand." 

CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION 
**PRESENTS** 
The Taming of the Shrew 
Starring Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor Directed by Franco Zeffirelli 
TONIGHT 7-10 P.M. 

THURS.. SEPT. 12 
ENGINEERING 
AUDITORIUM 



ADMISSION ONLY 25' 


5 
liege of Science or any freshman with a science intent wishing to be considered for the post of Student 
Representative to the Academic 
Council must submit a letter of 
intent to that effect to Dr. Darwin 
Mead, 229 Niewland, no later 

than noon on . 16 
* * * STARTS TOMORROW * * * 
Friday at 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 sat. & Sun. 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 r:iil

1 L!!J
Mon·Thurs. 7:45, 9:45 

"BL'I.ZING S:RDDLBS 
from the people who gave you "The Jazz Singer" 
Friday at 7:15, 9:30 Sat. & Sun. 2:15, 4:30, 7:15, 9: Mon-Thur. 7:15, 9:30 
GeneHackman~ 

"The

Conv8iSation, 

l5uler-tiuuse r=lix 
Twin .Theatres -100 Center Complex -Mishawaka Phone 255-9575 -ts $2.00, Child $.75 

Sunshine Promotions Presents 
Van Morrison 
and The Caledonia Express 


and SpeciafGuest 



Dave Loggins 

Sunday Sept. 15-7:30P.M. 
Athletic and 
Convocation Center

NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices: 

Bleachers _. _____ . __ ,.. $4.00 

Lower Are•---------*' 
Loge---------------$QO Plltfor11 ------------$UI
Flotr Seats -__ --..__ . $lAO 
Tickets On Sale: 

Gate 10 Ticket Office, Student Union Ticket Office (3rd Floor Lafortune), Robertson's, St. Joe Bank & Branches, First Bank Downtown, Elkhart Truth. 
FOR MAIL ORDER: state number & price of tickets desired .. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Nan ~orrison. Send to ,Vari Morrison Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, lndia~o·-46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 
fbe_obsttrvar Thursday, September 12, 1974
6 

Angela Davis to 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 

On September 20th Dr. Angela Davis will appear at Stepan Center to lecture on "The Fight Against Racism and Political Repression." 
A prominant black militant, Davis' claim to fame includes being fired from UCLA, becoming the first black woman on the FBI's most wanted list, standing trial for murder and numerous speeches and organizational projects. 
In 1969 Davis was fired from her position as acting assistant professor of philosophy at UCLA because of her member ship in the American Communist Party. At the time she was working with the Che-lumumba group, an all-black collective of the Communist Party. 
Following legal action and protests by faculty and students Davis was reinstated at UCLA. 
Her work with political prisoners at the time brought her into close contact with Jonathan Jackson, one of the Soledad Brothers. In a 1970 attempt to free Jonathan's brother George at the Madison County Courthouse Jonathan, a hostage judge, and several other people were killed. 
When police discovered that the guns used in the Los Angeles shootout belonged to Davis, a warrant was issued for her arrest. Under California law, the owner of a weapon used in a crime is subject to indictment on a charge of complicity in that crime. 
Davis eluded the police and went underground, becoming the first black woman to be listed on the FBI's ten most wanted list. 
In the meantime, the American Communist Party set up hundreds of Angela Davis Committees across the country. The campaign to free her and other alleged political prisoners spread to Europe, Africa, the USSR, and South America. 
Police finally apprehended Davis in late 1970. In 1971, before she went on trial, George Jackson was killed in prison while repor­tedly attempting to escape. 
The prosecution. in the Davis case argued that Davis had conspired with Jonathan Jackson in the liberation attf'!mpt because of her love for his brother. The defense, in turn, argued that Jackson and Davis were on such close terms that he could easily 

the Frantic One 
(continued from page 4) "Hey, Garolfo! I read that crap youwrotethe other day. Geez, what gar-BAGE. Who are you trying to communicate with, mongoloid paraplegics'?" "Hey," Garfolo said, "why don't you go take a flying ... " "Too bad you can't come up with anything original. Guess the old Frantic One's just too much for you. I should do an expose on the in­credible limits to your mind. When can I start'?" Garfolo just kept on walking. The Frantic One really dug on those conversations. He enjoyed the feeling of superiority and adroitness that revolved from them. He liked to think of them as enrichment for the soul. After lunch he went to his room for a nap. Opening the door, a ~ment of admiration was given to the stark, empty character of the place. He relished telling visitors it was his "little pits." He felt that it prepared him; stripped him down, made him empty and unburdened for the fight. He lay on the unmade bed and considered trying to have the same dream. It was one of his pasttimes, recapturing old dreams. Sometimes, rarely though, he could swear that he had picked a dream up exactly where he left it. This afternoon was not one of those times. He considered some other dreams, lost or forgotten, but none of them seemed worth troubling with right now. And they were trouble. Every time he fixed his sights on one, it would scamper off like fearful does in the forest. "Jesus," I hate that," he thought. Roliing over, he gained a more comfortable position; sleep began to flow around him, swimming 
toward the bait he offered. 

ND Accountants score very high 
on CPA exam 

Professor Ray M. Powell, 
Chairman of the Department of Accountancy, announced last week that over 30 per cent of 42 Notre· Dame undergraduate majors have passed all four parts of the uniform CPA exam. Nationally, only 6 per cent complete it on the first try. 
Of 30,000 taking the test, Notre Dame undergrads received 2 of only 60 Honorable Mention Papers. 
Rick Keenan received the Indiana Gold Medal, and John Bava the Silver. 
While most of the students went with major National Public Ac­counting Firms, others were ac­cepted at Chicago, Yale, Texas, and Harvard law schools. Some will do graduate business study at the Harvard Business School 
In all, 17 passed the entire test,
• 12 pass,:d three parts, . and 8 completro two. 
I DIA 





lecture 

Observer ads get results II ! I I 
have taken the weapons from her rL----------------------------1_ apartment without her knowledge, and that he did indeed avail himself of the opportunity. Davis was acquitted by the jury. 
*TONIGHT*
In the past three years she has travelled in the U.S. and abroad, AND EVERY THURSDAY making public addresses and delivering her personal thanks for 
· Live Music by

the support given to her. Davis is currently active in the National Alliance Against Racism and 
TALlSMAN 

Political Repression, and the speaker's fee for her lecture will be donated to that organization. 
The lecture itself is free to students, and begins at 7:30p.m. Davis' appearance has been arranged and financed by the 1 Black Studies Program, the Notre Dame Student Government, the New Frontier Society, Ujamma, 
lll!1i•~•·· 
the Center for Civil Rights, the==========================~
Black American Law Students 
Association, and the Black Cultural Arts Center. 
ALL ITAllAN FOOD 
Renovation to be 
1 1 -1 pm WEEKDAYS 
completed soon 
By Bob Mader 
Staff Reporter 

Renovation of the Placement Bureau offices on the second floor of the Administration Building will be completed October 23, ac­cording to Mr. Richard Willman, Placement Bureau director. 
The renovation, which was begun last June, consists of new paneling, carpeting, and painting in one office and three in­
terviewing roons. 

Willman describes the new facilities, which will be used by over 1200 employers seeking qualified graduates, as "being among the finest in the nation." 
A cost estimate of the renovation was not available. 

endo~:s 
241 Dixieway North 
1 mi. north of ND 

guitar repair and
I 

headquarters~ instruction 
LA 


1 1 -2 pm WEEKENDS 
PIZZA CARRY OOT 
Ph. 289-0344 
LOUNGE 

RESTAURANT  11  -3 pm  
&  ALL  WEEK  
LOUNGE  

1817 SO. M·ich igan
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
100 Center 
~E 

Tc1EA~ 
BA.NANA 
CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES Largest selection of 
FRYE BOOTS 
in the area 
~10 to 9-Sun 12 to 6 
B A 

• NOW is the time to BEGIN. 
REGISTER TO VOTE 






TODAY 
9 A.M.-5P.M. Lafortune Lobby 5 P.M.-6:30 P.M. 
outside the Dining Halls 
, • ,. t • r 
"' • 'II' ... 

----~ -~----------------~-----~.....-----------------------~~--------~--, 
. . ·....
~ 
' . ~·. 

Thursday, Septembe~ 1974 the observer 
7 
Less grcduate study 
Career interest shown 
by Bill Brink Senior Night Editor 

Notre Dame graduates continue to be carreer-oriented and less inclined to enter graduate school according to a survey of the class of '74 conducted last May. 
Results of the survey show a decrease for the third straight year in the percentage of un­dergraduates going on to graduate school. 45 per cent of those polled this year expressed intent to enroll in graduate school, compared to 47 percent in 1973 and fifty per cent in 1972. 
Despite the decline in overall interest in graduate training, in­terest in professional areas of study has been rising. The number of Notre Dame graduates applying to law, medical, and business 
graduate  schools  increased  this  
year.  
uean  Malone,  director  of  the  

graduate division of business administration, said that though interest in professional graduate work has increased, the desire for graduate training in the disciplinary areas has decreased. The net result is an overall decrease in the number of un­dergraduates enrolling in graduate school. 
Malone pointed out that con­tinued work in non-professional fields usually leads towards a teaching career. "But," he added, "because of the oversupply of teachers today, the historic and traditional graduate areas leading to scholarly careers are decreasing in percentage of students. Many schools today have 
less student enrollment, so they need less teachers." 
The survey also revealed that of those students entering a career directly after graduation, two­thirds had accepted job offers by May 1st. Malone saw this trend as a concern for their economic future. He said students were "taking the opportunity while they've got it.. Opportunity is the key. The students are interested in an early career with economic opportunity hooked into it." 
Malone added that many graduates enter careers and at­tend part-time law or part-time business school at night. "These people are not reflected in the survey's figure," he said. 
Though the survey covered only Notre Dame students, Malone felt that the decrease in graduate school enrollment was a national trend. 
Dean Thompson, of the College of Arts and Letters, also cited the reduced demand for college teachers as the major cause of the decline in graduate enrollment. 
"It's simply a matter of economics. There's not a lack of interest, the students are con­cerned about humanities. But it's 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
just a dead end as far as a career is agreed that the reduced jobconcerned. Or at least they think market for teachers is important, so.." 
but: also stressed financial con­sideration as a major reason forThompson said that those the decline in graduate enrollment. 
students pursuing careers im­mediately after graduation are lot to the
"It has a do withjust trying to get a handle on a job students ability to supportand take the opporutunity. "It's themselves through graduatereally the norm, nationally, for a school. I think a lot would do it if student to have four years of they thought a job was waiting ateducation and then go off into the the end, but many can't supportjob market. An. M.A. or Ph. D. has themselves and don't want to never been the normal goal of burden their parents with graduate studenJ." 
expenses," Raymond said. 
He agrees with Malone that the trend towards decreased graduate He also pointed out the student's enrollment is not limited to Notre desire to make money and become Dame, but is a nationwide one. economically independent. "They 
are concerned about making that 
Vincent Haymond, associate bread when they leave so they are dean of business administration. grabbing the job they can get." 
*LOUIE'S 

744 f\Jo. ND A\f9. 
!AtNXJNONGLOliE'S BEER SPEOAU 
16 oz. 50' 
*ITALIAN 
*LOIJE'S SAN>VVIOES FA1VKXJS PIZZA 
Come Early -join us for supper! 

I 
1--SPECIAL RATE ALL FOUR PLAYS 
$7.50 
Student -Faculty
SMC 
ND-8MC Staff 
$5.50
THEATRE MAIL ORDERS 
1974-75 
NOWOPfN
Our Ninth Season 
LOOK HOMEWARD. ANGEL 
Ketti Frings' Pulitzer Prize Play based on the novel byThomas Wolfe. 
Oct. 4, 5, 110, 11, 12 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 

A premiere production of this comedy-Intrigue In the absurd manner by NO graduate Christopher Ceraso. 
Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00P.M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

Freely adapted from the Medea of Euripides bY Poet Robinson Jeffers. 
Feb. 21, 22, 27, 28, Mar. 1 at 8:'00 P..M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
1Gno1a~ 
wasserman, Leigh, and Darlon's musical adaptation of 
Cervantes' Don Quixote. 
Apr. 25, 26, May 1, 2, 3 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
Name....................................-........................................... . 
Address......................................Phone.............................. 
City ........................................... State •••••..•••••••Zip..•••.••.•• Please send ........... subscriptions at (c:ircle price) $7.50 I $5.50 Totals ........................................... . Indicate date choice for each play: 1st Fri ........................ ·-······ 1st Sat ............................... .. Thurs••.••.•••..••..•~; ... 2nd Fri ..•.••..•••••. 2nd Sat •••.••.•.•••.•..••. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

Sun Flower Music Shop will buy odl guitars, banjos, mandolins, also do custom building and repair. 25 per cent off on strings, caps, etc. Visit us at 632 N. Portage, South Bned. 288· 
5485. 
Experienced typist will do: Term papers, Manuscripts. Call Jane at 233-5332. 
THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE 12:15·5:00 a MWF AND 11:00-1 :oo and 2:30-5:00 TT. THE TICKET OFFICE IS LOCATED ON THE SOUTH END OF THE SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE (ABOVE THE HUDDLE) VAN MORRISON AND SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE. 
Handmade Indian turquoise jewelry from the South West. Rings, Bracelts, earings and ac­cesssories, all very reasonably priced. 287-0076 after 7:00p.m. 
Bibbo's Brithday Sept. 22. Organizing now for suitable celebration. 6246. 11­
midnight. 
24 hr. TV repair--color TV's $60 and up. 282-1955. 
N.E. Day Care May fit your needs: students faculty or otherwise. 233-2233 or 233­
3865. 
Money? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150, basement of LaFor­tune--Daily 11:15-12:15. 
NAVAJO squash blossoms made our of Merenci tourquoise. caII 234-5646. 
Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Friday at 4:40. Call Tom Boyer. 272-1807. 
EUPHORIA (RECORDS AND TAPES) IS BAKC, CHEAP. WE BEAT ALL SOUTH BEND PRICES. SPECIAL FOR DEAD 
FREAKS. • .DEAD ALBUMS RIDICULOUSLY CHEAP UNTIL WED­NESDAY. WE DELIVER TO NO STUDENTS CALL 234-6530. 4 
LOST-4& FOUND Lost: Pr. of men's glasses­between N.D. Ave and Campus Par 234-5823. 
Lost: Somewhere between 
U.S. 3\ and the Architecture bldg on the road to St. Mary's 
Prescription glasses. wire rim and in a lime case. Reward. Call 272-1451. 
Lost: high school cclass ring, '72 La Lumiere. call 234-2620 
Reward for return of green spiral notebook and-or Computer Data Processing book "accidently" taken from South Dining Hall 9-5. 
Please give back . no questions asked. 235 Walsh 8093.. 
WANTED 

Need 2 GA tix for Purdue game. Call Trace at 234­1889. 
Need 2 GA tix to Rice or Army games. Willing to pay $. Call Jim 6764. 
Need Northwestern tix. Call Bryan, Chuck or Mike at 3185. 
Need ride to Cleveland or Akron Ohio Sept. 13th. Share driving , expenses. Call Jim 1859. 
Desperately need two GA tickets for Rice. Will pay top dollars. Call Bill after 7 p.m. 8533. 
Ride needed from Mich. City to N.D. 5 days a week. Call Jerry in evenings at 
874-6324. 
Need 6 GA tickets for Purdue $\10. 
Need 4 Miami GA tickeTS. Also tickets for any other home game. Chuck 1592. 
Wanted: 3 or 4 tickets to Elvis Presley Concert (either night). Tickets must be together. Call Marty at 289-3751. 
Desperately need Purdue tix GA &-or student. Call Joe 3663. 
Need ride to Dayton, Ohio this weekend. Will share costs. Suzanne 4919. 
Need 4 oto 6 GA tickets for Pitt or Miami 288-2613. 
Need 4 GA Rice tix Dave 6818. 
Wanted: 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call Larry 288­7375. 
Need 2 GA Purdue Tix Call Bob 3374. 
Must have 1 Purdue ticket GA or student. Call Joe­

·­
1132. 
Wanted: One ticket to Purdue game. Call Bob at 8627. 
Desperately need 4 GA tix to Purdue. Phone 6816. 
Need home for a male malamute pup 2'12 months old until May 1974. Will pay for food and expenses. Call Ken. 272-8879 or 283-3797. 
Need 3 GA lix to Army. Call Randy 272-7198. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Marvina R., Congratulations on a great game! 
Keep up the good work. 414 Lyons 
To the Roman Pontiff: 
Beware the kiss of Christ who comes not for grand equisitors, but for Harlots... 
Best Wishes. Antichrislal Coalition 
COME AND PRANCE IN YOUR FANCY PANTS AT FRIDAY'S SQUARE DANCE. 

Come one, Come all to the fabulous Farley-Sarin Square Dance Friday 13th Bookstore Basketba II Courts. 
FOR SALE 

Want to Sell 4 season ticket and want to buy 3 G.A. tickets to Miami or Pitt. Call 232-6790 after midnite on Mon., Tues., or Wed. 
For Sale­1969 Olds 442 Convrt. (blue) $1100. Contact 283-6162 or 272-5498 (after 4 p.m.) 

For Sale-Army ROTC uniform & equipment ­great shape. Reasonable price. 289-8029. 
l 
'68 Plymouth Fury Ill 
l• 
58,000 miles. New tires since June. Good cond. $595. 
Bed Queen size $75. Coffe table $\5. Stroller $5, car seat $\2. All items like new. 272-9\93. 
'73 \75 Honda. Excellent condition. $500. Terry. See 
l
at 8\8 Blaine. 
~ 
4
Stereo 80 bucks without speakers. Can-t beat it! 234­
5646. 
l ~ 
For Sale: Ashai Pentax SPO II. Konica auto reflex T with Vivitar Zoom 85-205 mm. Call 277-002\. George 
4
For Sale: 
1 slazenger tennis racket !12.00. I Dunlap Maxply Racket 
$22.00. Excellent conditions. Jeff 6\61. 
Pandoras Books is pleased to announce our new daily service of New York Times, .. We also carry Sun. NYT's. 


~~--­

----~-~---------~--------­
Thursday, September 12, 1974
8 


the observer 

Drew Mahalic-a switch to hitter 
If striving _ for the good of the team is the (where Mahalic also played in high technique. mark of an unselfish football school) if it didn't work out. "Reckless abandon is what player, the Drew Mahalic per­"It only took one look at Tom Coach Kelly says I needed,"sonfies unselfishness. Clements in practice and I knew it remembers Mahalic of his early
A high school All-American and would be in my own and the team's days as an Irish linebacker. "It Michigan Player of the Year as a best interest ifI made the switch to was the one thing I needed to work quarterback in high school, defense." on in order to excel as a Mahalic came to Notre Dame with Now known as an intense hitter, linebacker. I didn't have it 
an open mind. Mahalic says the switch "wasn't as naturally, but have tried to develop
In a meeting with Coach difficult as I first expected. I knew it." Parseghian during my freshman I could cover passing situations, year," says Mahalic, "he told me being an old quarterback, but Now in his third year as a vital 
cog in the Irish defense, MahalicI'd be given a shot at quarterback. learning how to come up and meet 
But, he asked me if I would be a big tackle or guard head-on was a still isn't sure he has acquired that willing to switch to linebacker problem. I needed a lot of work on needed "abandon." "But Coach 

Kelly hasn't used the term with me nearly as much since my sophomore season," adds Mahalic. 
Credited with 136 tackles during his first two years behind the front four, Mahalic ignores individual


The Irish Eye 
efforts and credits the "coaching staff and the overall Notre Dame concept" with any success the 
t. d Irish have achieved recently.
................................·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=···=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=· es 1ons an answers 
"Coach · Parseghian is so Monday night's opener against Georgia Tech began as much more than organized," says Mahalic, "that just the first game of the season. It was a test, a comprehensive test we enter each game confident we

-designed by Ara Parseghian and his coaching staff to determine just won't be outcoached. We know if how well the 1974 Irish had recuperated and redeveloped during the fall we do what the game plan calls for preseason. -if we implement -we'll win. There were a lot of questions, and as in most exams, some were an-­swered and some were not. But as the results were pieced together, one "That simple word pride is what would have to say the Irish scored in the high nineties. we need this year. We have to "I'm immensely pleased with our performance," noted Ara. "I think avoid complacency in order to we're going to be a good football team." accomplish what we want this The test featured five distinct questions. How much damage had been year· Winning the national done by preseason injuries and suspensions'? Was the loss of speed championship was naturally the significant? Was Steve Niehaus suited for a defensive end position'? How high point of my time here, but I would a green secondary react under fire'? How good was the kicking strive for the present. I've always 
? felt that if a guy plays-as well as he
game. . 
The Irish answered these questions as if they had a month to prepare, can at the pre~ent,_ the future will which coincidentally they did. The only problem that remained somewhat take care of. Itself· V(e have to unsolved was the situation of the defensive backfield. totally commit for 60 mu~utes each 
"The secondary lacks some speed," judged Parseghian."But it's hard week-~then ?,Ur goals will be ac­to evaluate after one game's performance. Georgia Tech didn't pass that comphshed. much. _Nex~ week when we ~lay Nor~wester!" we'~ face ~n excellent Regardless of the outcome of the passer m Mitch Anderson. Right now mexperience IS the big problem, current season Mahalic says he is and we'll see how they react to the pass, but there's no question they can totally content in his choice of play ground defense." attending Notre Dame. "I knew I . Sophomore strong safety Job~ Dube!'etzky p~oved this. Dubenetzky was wanted to go to Notre Dame when I m on no less than ten tackles mcludmg the time he dropped Tech quar-was little and living in New Jer­terback Dave Myers for a three yard loss on fourth down from the ND sey," remembers Mahalic. "Many one. people there have more or less 
If there was any question about the speed of Steve Niehaus at defensive adopted Notre Dame as 'their' end Georgia Tech's speedy split end Jimmy Robinson can answer it. school I was one of them. Niehaus outran the shifty Robinson as the latter attempted an end around and dropped him for a 17 yard loss. "I was so sure I wanted to come 
"Steve was a little hesitant about playing outside at first," explained to. Notre Dame that I didn't even Defensi\·e Line Coach Joe Yonto, "like a boxer who's sparring for the realize the excellent educational first time. Once he became comfortable with the situation he did a op)>ortunities available here until remarkable job. We watched the films this morning and Steve was in on after I'd arrived. As it turned out, at least fifteen tackles. And as far as his speed is concerned they don't I'm fortuanate that Notre Dame come any faster than Robinson and Steve tracked him down without too has so much to offer other than much trouble." football." 
"Niehaus aid a damn good job," added Parseghian, "he played his Mahalic, who feels he hasposition well." 
matured both physically andTwo other people who played their positions well were punter Tony mentally since arriving onBrantley and freshman placekicker Dave Reeve. Reeve had a 22 yard 
campus, finds a remark byfield goal and four PAT's while Brantley averaged 40.3 yards on three Howard Cosell the closest thing topunts, and more importantly did not allow a runback. "I was very a personal motto he tries to live by. 
pleased with our kicking game," allowed Ara, "especially on punts and 
kickoffs. Reeve and Brantley performed very consistently for us. Tht comment by Cosell, made in But the big question concerned the preseason losses and the absence of reference to the Miami Dolphinsspeed in the lineup. was "Any team can achieve ex­
"The loss of speed is significant," explained Parseghian. "It's ap­cellence. The mark of a true parent that we don't have a Eric Penick, a Bradley, or an AI Hunter, and champion is to achieve consistency nowwithArt Best gone we've lost all our speed. This game was a test to of excellence." see just exaclty how much damage had been done. We evaluated our assets and that evaluation has proven correct. We have lost some "Perhaps one can't actually speed, but then again we have a Tom Clements, a Wayne Bullock, and a achieve perfection," reflects Pete Demmerle to build things around. And that's a damn fine nucleus." Mahalic, "but that goal is what 
It proved to be much more that just a nucleus last Monday night. keeps me .going--it gives me Clements, Bullock, Demmerle, and company aced that test. something to strive for." 
IH deadlines 
Deadlines for lnterhall and in­tra-mural sports are as follows. 16" softball tournament -today Sept. 12 
272-9800
Graduate school football -Friday Sept. 13 
1723SO UTHBEN DAVE
Interhall soccer -Sunday Sept. 15. 

If there are any questions con­tact Jim Ambrose at the Interhall CONGRATULATIONS IRISH: Office C-4 in the ACC or call 6100. 
1 21N A R 0 W! 1 31N A R 0 W NEXT 0 Women's B-ball SPECIALS YOU MUST SEE TO The organizational meeting of BELIEVE 0 BEST PRICES IN T 0 WN!: 
the women's basketball team will be held Sept. 15 at 6 p.m. in the Farley Hall Chapel rather than at 


JIM -'63
the originally planned 8 p.m. 
All girls welcome males to come 
CHUCK-'65 and get down right in the basement-Faithful Farley F c e s! P R 0 P R fE T 0 RS 


Drew Mahallc, quarterback turned linebacker displays his reckless abandon staving off a Georgia Tech blocker in Monday night's bail-game. 


TUTORING WANTS YOU 
SIGN UP NOW. 
CALL: TOIV\ 8437 DC 1739 EILEEN 4306 DAN 282-1784 


