On The Inside 
Lugar speech ... page 3 Letters to the Editor ... page 4 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community

Vol. IX No. 26 Thursday, October 3, 1974
•. 

Wth eight other nxrjor changes 

Proposal made to combine two colleges 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
Nine major proposals on revising the University curriculum and academic organization have been announced by the Committee on the Course of Study, including suggestions to possibly unite the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Science, to require a senior seminar on values, and to espand credit by examination programs. 
The committee, appointed by the administration at the same time that the COUP was appointed, has forwarded its findings to the Faculty· Senate for consideration and to the Academtc Counsel for possible approval. 
Regarding unification of the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Science, the Committee pointed out that there is already a large group of students who might be classified as "arts and sciences". "More than 55 per cent of the students in the College of Science are pre-professional majors or concentrates who do approximately one-half of their academic work in Arts and Leters," the report said. 
The committee pointed out however that few Arts students take science courses and suggested that this figure might be increased if the two colleges weree united. It also suggested that "the rationale for collegial structure is less educational than purely administrative." The committee proposed a major in-depth study of . the merits of unification by aspecial committee of faculty and administrators from both colleges, and in the interim, "more cooperative educational endeavors." 
Greater cross-college course selection is 
"healthy" and ought to be "encouraged" according 
to the report which pointed out that students who try 
to take courses outside of their major often feel 
discriminated against in other colleges. Recom­
mendations to avoid this included increasing in­
formation to students about course offerings in 
other colleges and "ensuring that all courses in the 
University are equally available to all qualified 
students," once department majors had been taken 
care of. 
A five-year combined bachelors-MBA program 
was strongly recommended to take advantage of 
the market value of MbA degrees and to avoid the 
increasing financial problems students face in 
pursuing graduate studies. The program would 
involve finishing undergraduate studies in three 
years in any college and completing two years of 
graduate work. 
The undergrad college would determine w~at 
cour~-·:; in the MBA program would be acceptable as undergrad electives. Enrollment in the program would be limited to not more than 15 per cent of the total number MBA candidates to insure that the majority would have the "vital experience in the business community" needed to share with other students. 

A one-eredit, one semester, required "enior seminar in values was proposed for all un­dergraduates on the grounds that "unless we are content to function as mere conditioned organisms, we must reflect on the values which motivate us." 
The course, which would be graded satisfactory­unsatisfactory, would be organized along college lines and "directed by virtually all the faculty." It would involve weekly metings, both in large groups to hear major speakers, and small discussion groups. 
In addition to this value seminar the university requirements would be expanded to include one semester of social science to be completed in the freshman or sophomore years. The requirements of the Freshman Year in English, mathematics, P.E., and natural science would be "legitimatized" as University requirements since all students have to take them in any case. 
To introduce "greater flexibility into the un­dergraduate curriculum" the committee proposed introducing "minicourses" half a semester long and worth 1.5 credit hours. This, the committee suggested, would "encourage students to study 

The Faculty Senate will consider proposals for unification of colleges. Fr. Cushing, chairman, will preside over the discussion. 
subjects removed from their mainline interests," 
since the effect on the GPA of such a course would 
be small. 

Students would have a chance to "sample 
alternatives" and widen their backgrounds. The 
program would also give the faculty a chance to 
develop courses in areas in which they had a new 
interest. 

The committee recommended gr~ater use and 
experiemntation with television, particualrly closed 
circuit and cable TV. Closed circuit is being used at 
such universities as Michigan State, the committee 
said, to handle large numbers of students and to 
"multiply popular teachhers and courses" by 
providing closed circuit sections. 
"Cable TV may offer the opportunity to provide 
courses in areas which we do not and cannot offer" 
because of finances and scarcity of qualified in­
structors, according to the report. The report also 
proposed workshops for the faculty to inform them 
about television and other electronic media. 
The committee reviewed the various methods of 
gaining advanced-placement and credit by 
examiniation open to students, particularly in the 
fresman year, and suggested these programs be 
expanded to higher levels "in any and all areas 
deemed feasible by the respective departments." It 
said however that advanced placement should 
remain an "alternative route" rather than the norm 
for superior students. 

However, the report rejected a standard three­
year bachelors program as lacking gerneral sup­
port. 

The committee's final proposal was a "stop-out" 
program similar to that proposed to the Academic 
I Council by last year's academic commissioner 
Chris Nedeau. The report suggested that students 
might want to drop out temporarily for several 
reasons such as finances, health, family problems, 
and the "need for a reprieve from their studies." 
By getting approval from their dean before 
registration for the first semester that they would 
miss students could be sure of re-admission without 
having to go through the Admissions Office. There 
would be a two-semester limit to the stop-out in 
most cases. 

According to the forwarding letter from Burt­
chaell the report will be considered by the 
Academic Council late this fall, the delay being due 
to other matter on the agenda. Butchaell asked that 
the Faculty Senate forward any recommendations 
from the faculty to the Provost's office by mid­
October. The committee included Dean Frederick 
Crosson of the College of Arts and Letters , 
Assistant Provost William Burke, Registrar 
Richard Sullivan, and ten other faculty and ad­
ministrators. 

'Quickie Bus' won't be running this weekend 
by Bill Gonzebach Staff Reporter 

The Quickie Bus Shuttle will not operate this weekend because all available buses have been rented for the Michigan State football trip, said Bill McLean, Om­budsman director. 
"We have contacted four bus agencies and there are no buses available for the weekend," McLean said. Buses could be rented for Friday night, but they would have to be returned by 12:00 midnight. "If we return them atmidnight, we would strand people in Michigan and South Bend," said the director. 
McLean emphasized that the stoppage is not a product of financial difficulties or failure of the program. Last weekend the Quickie Shuttle incurred a deficit of nearly $300. McLean reiterated, "We are not running because buses are not available." 
Because of the financial loss 

McLean has developed a new 
program for the shuttle. Two 40­
seat motor coaches will be used 
mstead of the two South Bend 
buses and the 46-seat motor coach, 
which were used last weekend. In an effort to limit student govern­There will be a South Route will soon be available. ment expenditures, the fare will be which will run to Scotsaa!e Mall, "We hope to offer those Notre raised from 10 cents to 25 or 30 stopping at bars and restaurants Dame students who are without cents. on the way. There will also be the cars a chance to have an enjoyable 
"This would give an intake of Michigan Route, which will now evening," said McLean. McLean between $120 and $170," the include the Heidelburg Inn and the also said the shuttle would offer c. director said. White House. An exact time table safe means of transportation for 
Press: 'Salary increase possible' 
By Bill Gonzebach 
The University can afford the Faculty Senate salary increase request, Professor Irwin Press, chairman of the Faculty Affairs committee, said in an interview yesterday. 
"There is no question that the University can afford it," declared the professor. The passage of the request deals therefore with University priorities, not financial capabilities. 
"The question is one of priorities. We feel that the priorities now lie with the faculties achieving some better status with respect to the cost of living and we feel that this supersedes any other kinds of priorities the aUniversity might have for that excess money." said the chairman. 
Press stated he had no idea of what the chances were that the Administration and Board of Trustees would pass the request. "I do feel, however, that equity and justice lie with our request," added the professor. 
Because of inflation, the faculty has lost more than the requested increase of $1,200 in buying power over the past several years. Press said that the increase "is not going to get us back this buying power that we lost, but it is certainly going to go a long way towards helping out." 
The chairman also expressed specific problems of the Notre Dame faculty. "A majority of them of course are Catholic and this means that they are going to have a greater number of children than are their colleagues, who are not Catholic at our peer univer­sities." 

Press also said that many of the faculty were very loyal to Notre Dame. 
"This means, in a sense, to receive lower salaries is to be penalized for being a particularly loyal faculty member and a committeed Catholic as well," said the professor. 
"The University can be a great university holding classes in huts, but you can not have a great university without the faculty--you can't skimp on faculty," concluded Press. 
students who go to Michigan to drink. 
McLean added that the shuttle might not run homecoming weekend because of conflicting 'nterests with the homecoming program. 
Tomorrow's Issue 
Coverage of the local Indiana and St. Joseph County general elections will begin in tomorrow's Obst>rver. The coverage of the local races, necessitated by the large pereentage of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students registered to vote in St. Joseph County, will continue up until the General Election Tuesday November 5. 
In tomorrow's Obst>rver, Staff Reporter Matt Yokom will focus on those candidates for national, state, and local offices. He will also examine the three referenda on the Indiana Constitution to be ~onsidered in November. 
Thursday, October 3, 1974
the observer 
warld briefs 

WASHINGTON <UPI) -The House late Wednesday voted tentative cuts of $198,000 in an alreadv sharply reduced allowance for former President Nixon's transition to private life, but rejected a move to strip him of his pension. 
LISBON <UPil -The armed forces, on full alert since an alleged right-wing coup attempt over the weekend, arrested another 59 persons in a round-up of suspects accused of planning the downfall of the left-wing government, military sources• said Wednesday. 
Almost 300 suspects now are in detention since Saturday and a high government official said a great quantity of arms was seized in the wak e of the plot which may have included assassination attempts against top leaders. 
LUANDA, Angola <UPI) -Unidentified Mrican guerrillas killed 
nine civilians, including a white foreman, in an attack Tuesday on a 
truck in northern Angola, police said Wednesday. 

The National Front for the Liberation of Angola denied 
responsibility for the attack and said if any of its members were 
implicated they would be punished. 

an campus taday 
4:00pm -seminar, "some properties of electrons and hydrocar­bons" by dr. allen of brookhaven natl. lab., long island, n.y. conf. rm. of rad. lab. 
5 & 7 pm-film. "the dutchman" in engineering aud. 
7, 9, & 11 pm-film, "butterflies are free" in madelcva hall, $1.25 
7 & 9 pm-film, "the getaway" in washington hall, $1.00 
7:30pm-lecture, "hemingway" by max westler, madeleva hall. 
8:00pm -recital, "music in the 19th century" performed by smc students, stapleton lounge, $1.00 

SMC orofessor leaves lor another position 
bv Thomas O'Neil · Staff Reporter 

SMC Psychology professor Dr. Larry Scrivner left St. Mary's last week to assume a position at the Thomas Jefferson Mental Health and Retardation Center in Philadelphia. Scrivner will serve as Director of Research and Evaluation at the center. 
Dr. Joseph Miller, chairman of the SMC Psychology Department, said Scrivner was released from his 1974-1975 contract obligations Wednesday, Sept. 25 after con­sultations with college and department officials. 
Miller said the decision to allow Scrivner to break his contract carefully considered the effect of Scrivner's absence on his students. 
"We knew that we had the com­petence among other staff members to assume the respon­sibility of his courses," Miller stated. 
Another consideration, ac­cording to Miller, was the at­tractiveness of the Philadelphia offer in view of a tight job market. 
"We realized the change is beneficial to both sides and believed the transition should be made as rapidly as possible." 
Scrivner, who served as acting department chairman last year, came to SMC in 1971 after teaching at the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, Canada. 
Until a full-time replacement for Scrivner is recruited, his classes will be taught indivytually by Drs. Miller, Wanschura, ·Ruddy and Keller. 
HELD OVER

·1 
* * * * * * 
Friday at 7:45, 9:45. 
JRJ 

Sat. & Sun. 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 Mon-Thurs. 7:45, 9:45 
'BL~ZING S~DDLBS 
from the people who gave you "The Jazz Singer" 
STARTS TOMORROW 

Charlie Choplin 
\l\l~ow 

lb0@1WJT§99 
Fri.&Mon.-Thurs. 7:15,9:15Sat&Sun 1:15,3: 15,5: 15,7:15 9:15 
Uuiler-tluu~e r=lix 
Twm , near res -100 cenrer comPI4lJC -Mlsn;,waka Phone 255-9157~ -Aduns $2.00, CIWild .7 
Shakespeare 
IVIarathon 
sets record 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
The world's longest Shakespeare 


--..---I 
reeling Cards ! 
• ~ 20 Percent Off !
.. .
---·-..······-· 
Paperback books Magazines Novelty items Paraphernalia




T~Q!~. 


Original paintings Shopping Center . . 'i-·. . . Art supplies 
Mini-mall 
219-256-0111

Mi$hawaka 
Marathon ended yesterday ·:··;::=::::====::;::~;;:===============~
WEEKENO JOB
morning at 8:30in the Notre Dame Bus Shelter. The marathon, which lastedtnhours,t5minutestobeat Purdue University's previous'
record of 109 hours, raised a total of $275 for local charities. 
The reading ended with the last line of Shakespeare's Sonnet 73: 
"To love that well which thou must leave ere long."
Chris Keen, president of the Notre Dame Alpha Phi Omega
<APO> service fraternity chapter sponsoring the event, said he was • 

disappointed with the financial iliii-r~iiiii~·~ij-~iiiiiiMiiiili.;~;;i-;H;;;;;;;i
turnout for the event. "It's a ·----· ..... 
shame tha people are not more aware of the local charities needing contributions," Keen stated. 
Keen noted that most of the money raised by the marathon will
be donated to Sr. Marita's Day School. He had earlier set the financial goal for the event as $1000 in donations. 
"We had expected a much 
greater turnout of spectators after the Purdue game but the campus was vacated right after the game," 
Keen observed. He said he was very thankful for the enthusiasm of students who participated in the oral reading. 
The Shakespeare Marathon was threatened by stormy weather late Saturdaynightwhenthetarpaulin shelter for readers on the South 

Quad was blown down by strong ~~~~~~11!1~~~~~~~~!11!1~..--IIJI••••••
winds. The reading, however, was 
uninterrupted as the readers ~~~t~l~a~~ved to the bus shelter, The tarpaulin was stolen sometime later in the night, Keen 
· .J, and APO will have to spend .vme of the donated funds to replace the canvas unless the tarpaulin is returned. 
Future APO activities, ac­cording to Keen, include a phone-

booth stuffing contest and a second semester "Ugliest Man On
Campus" election. APO, a national service fraternity with 
over 135,000 members, is open to 
all male and female students. 
Students interested in becoming members are asked to contact Keen at 1783. 
The Observer is publiShtd dally during the college semetster except vacations by the students of tile University of Notre Dame .nd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from 'The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
~ 
; 
* ~
* 
~ 
lf..
*
* 
: 
: 
.,._
* 
:** 
* 
* 
: 
~ ~ 
: * ~ 

Indiana's Largest La~e Developer Needs Several Am b"1t"1ous Sen1"ors 
0 G d S d 
r ra tu ents To Work Weekends Th ob N · k W · 
ru Oct er ear La e awasee. G p "d 
as al • Free Housing.
M • • ·$5Q

lnlmumt CALL C STONE (219) 636 7189 
W t
t\ --,....,..... -'­J--~ 
-

SMC 
T H E A T R E 
1974-75 Our Ninth Season 
RESERVATIONS 284·4176 
Student -Faculty ND-5MC Staff 
$1.50 

LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGEL 
~~~t~rWg~;e~ulltzer Prize play based on the novel by 
Oct.4,5, 10, 11, 12at8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 

'lt+.'1f'1f'1f'1f*****•*****************'1f'1f'1f**** 
g PRESENTING: ~ 
the Thursdnv n·•ght spec··a11,.. ~ 
-~
7 

1'1' • $1 50 
PIZZO --• 

P"t her Be Nit
I C er I e 

Eat, drink, and be entertained by live music nightly (except Tuesday) AT 
WHITE HOUSE INN 
Now Playing 
Uncin Beckett:
•·••••••••••••••••• 

2 8 3 9 N 5th 
: 
:
*
* 
*
* 
*: * 
·~
* 
* 
no * 
Lc_pver * 
cnurge : 
: 
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 683-9842 1~ Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 58, 3 miles. : * 
*********************************** 
STUDENT UNIUN t-'Kt:!>t:NI !> LUMI\JG '74 

GORDON LIGHTFOOT 
IN CONCERT 
FRIDAY OCTOBER ·11 
8:30p.m. 
NOTRE DNJf. ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATIO\I CENTER r 1cK E r s· : $ 6 . 5 oI $ 5 . 5 o $ 4 . o o 
I 

TICKETS 
F R 0 M 1 :3 0 -5 :0 0 TICKET 0 FFICE IN 
9:00 · 5:00 AT THE THE A.C.C. 
ON SALE  
AT  THE  STUDENT  UN 10 N  
.  .  
LA FO RTUNE,._AN D  FROM  
GATE 10 TICKET OFFICE AT 


Emphasizes economic problems 

Lugar campaigns at N.D. 
by Marlene Zloza Managing Editor 

Calling for a "balanced federal budget" that includes significant cuts in all discretionary areas, such as defense spending and public works programs, U.S. Senatorial Candidate Richard Lugar last night focused entirely on the "issues and solutions" surrounding economic conditions. 
Speaking before a sparse crowd at Stepan Center, the Indiana Republican stressed the "need for a degree of public sacrifice" if the 
U.S. is to cut federal spending. 
To balance the budget, Lugar said "as much money must come in as goes out. We have generally spent more money than we take in" and this cannot go on now. 
Discussing the President's recent economic summit, the present Indianapolis mayor quoted economist Kenneth Galbraith, who called "inflation and recession the two important problems" that must be faced. "Some think in­flation is the only problem but both these concerns must be attacked," asserted Lugar. "We are more comfortable with recession and we know how to treat it-spend more money. But we won't solve either problem by concentrating only on inflation." 
Lugar warned those present that the United States and other Western nations are facing more than a problematic economic situation. "Can any democracy last after more than three years of double-digit inflation?" he asked. "People will soon begin to look for a drastic change" that may jeopardize the fundamentals of government. 
To dramatize the seriousness of 

this possibility, Lugar mentioned 
that polls show that Americans 
believe the current rate of inflation 
is 20 percent, rather than the ac­
tual 12 percent figure. "The polls 
also say that people think things 
will be much worse in six months 
rather than better," added Lugar. 
"With these kinds of fears, we'd 

better tell it like it is," Lugar 
asserted. "It will be unpleasant 
and hard to do some of the things 
that we must, but our house will 
have to be in order here, if we are 
to have any influence anywhere 
else in the world." 
Concerning world oil distribution 

and prices, Lugar came out 
strongly against the Middle East 
oil cartel. "A tilt has occured in 
the world, due to the craving for 
oil" and the monopoly of several 
suppliers, charged Lugar. "World 
inflation may cause even higher oil 
prices ... and we aren't calling the 
shots as to prices. We wish we 
were around that table and as the 
President says, we'd better get 
there quick." 
Lugar also quoted Secretary of State Kissinger's statement that "the world has only a 50-50 chance of coming through the oil crisis." "It is not really clear whether cooperative ventures will come off­-or whether we will have a worldwide depression," said 
r 
Senate candidate Lugar spoke on the "issues and solutions" last night at Stepan. 
"Any one of the oil-producing doesn't. and it won't happen. nations can pull the rug out from People may have to choose less under the world banking system," personal freedom to bring peace." he said, due to their loans and 
Regarding his opponent, Indianainvestments in the world's banks. 

Democratic Senator Birch Bayh,Producing nations have purchased Lugar attacked Bayh for "justreal estate and armaments and lately becoming concerned with now have a stake in Western inflation and suddenly asking fornations, according to Lugar. 
unmercifully drastic cuts in theMeanwhile, underdeveloped budget." Even so, said Lugar,countires with neither oil nor Bayh still thinks all of his spending money to buy seed for crops may measures have validity.
starve, warned Lugar. 
"Bayh has introduced 510 bills"Any anti-inflationary solution that would have spent 238 billion must try to break up the oil car­dollars on new programs," statedtel," asserted Lugar. "It is hard Lugar. "Most of these billsfor us to make decisions based on mercifully died in commmittee but our unstable condition. About all once in awhile one passed into we can say is that our 12 percent law." It is time to remind people of inflation rate is less than that in the long-term record, said Lugar.

Britain, France, Italy and Japan." 
After his speech Lugar answered As for wage and price controls, a variety of questions from theLugar sees no solution in that audience, clarifying his position ondirection. "Many people have different economic measures.

advocated wage and price controls Lugar came out againft anyas an inevi(able conclusion, but federal gasoline tax, and in favorhow do we escape from it later?" 

of tightening some tax loopholes.
Lugar asked. "It would bring an end to collective bargaining for Lugar also voiced approval of awhile and it woald bring an end to the choice of Nelson Rockefeller as free market pricl'S for awhile. It is vice president. "He is the an appealing thought that if president's choice and I have seen someone woulo call an end to in­no predominant objections to his 
flation, it would come, but it appointment." 
South Bend theaters offer discount tickets 
by Greg Bangs Staff Reporter 
The Student Union Ticket Office, in conjunction with Plitt Theatres, is now offering a discount ticket plan to all members of the Notre Dame community. The plan, which started October 2, enables the purchaser of a $1.50 ticket to gain admittance to most of the movies shown by the Plitt Theatre corporation. 
''Generally, most theatres owned by the Plitt Corporation charge $2.50 for admission," said Rick Golden, director of Student Services "but the purchase of a $1.50 discount ticket at the Student Union ticket office will enable a person to gain admittance to one movie and save an average of $1.00 in the meantime," he explained. 
"All attractions, except those 

PITTSBLRGH aUB 
M ids em ester Bus 
Meeting: Oct. 6 6:30 P.M. Lafortune Amphitheatre 
Members $25 Non-1\Aermers $28 
100 Center 

CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES Largest selection of 
FRYE BOOTS 
in the area 
Moo Sat 10 to 9-Sun 12 to 6 
the observer

Thursday, October 3, 1974 


52980 U.S.31 North 272-5220 
presents 
frig~t nroa. overland 6tag_e ao. 

everything from down-home bluegrass to contemporary rock 
BEGINNING OCTOBERS-3 SHOWS 
NIGHTLY FROM 9:00-2:00 SUNDAY FROM 8:30-12:00 
NIIIJW 18111 IIBsNIORS 
fNI/JAY ()(TOBER II S•I1Jfl1 SIITIJNOI#Y QCrQIIt 12 IIU~-mit/lt(fM 
PClLI!:Ii l:AVSP,C:IIii 
IRiSH FOLK OAHCil!ill 
OfLLY OA"CilliG 
OI.AI:K 1\I'IT$ C;$PLAY 
4il!f£K, VKIIAHij~.N FVLIII. OA~G 
KARAT£ p£hlo~j6TilATiCII 
CiJtiiiAN tfllfl GAR»£)1$ 
PPLISI-i, HVHCARit.N fOLK DAI«!iMC 
DAIIC:iNC IJHDtn 1K£ STAt!.$ H1CHTLV fJti>P1 1•11 ""' 

TI-E OVIC MINDED SHOPPtOO CENTER 
···-···-..··············--······-········-..-··-··-·········JI·············-························..r. 

mantezuma•s 





Oliphant Returns I
• 

Metamorphosis 

'IIIUIIIIWUfDUIUIWIIDUUUIII·C--··IUIII ray ralftire-z 
Listen to yourself. I mean, listen to how you change in your reaction to questions throughout your years here at Notre Dame; not the ordinary, boring, classroom type questions, but questions you encounter day in and day out as you traverse this campus. Here's a for instance: someone drives up to you and stops as you walk by the circle on your way to the post-office. "Excuse me, but can you tell me the way to Stepan Center?" 
You are a freshman. If they catch you early enough in the school year, they find a bright, eager lad, awed and impressed by the campus he now calls home, and if they catch you early enough, odds are you won't know where Stepan Center is or what it is. Or why it is (don't fret... few people know why it is). The normal student response in this case is, "Gee, gollee mister ... I'm sorry, but I don't know." You will be duly thanked and left to wander in your ignorance. 
A year rolls over and dies and suddenly you are a sophomore. You know full well that you run this place and that if the sophomores ever decided to leave en masse the University would 
U.S. POIIIGN POLICY-1974 

be forced to close, the stock-market would plummet, the price of gold would fluctuate wildly, and the coyote would finally catch the road-runner. Now you see some creaky alumnus come tooling up to within inches of your very person, but you try to ignore such in­solence. "What? Stepan Center?" (you begin to chortle softly with the thought of your cleverness); "Sure, I know where that is... you go around the lakes until you come to this thing that looks sort of like a cave, but it's full of candles and freshmen and pre-meds ... that's Stepan Center." Sometimes your cleverness astounds me. 
Another year is towed away, and to your total disgust you find yourself a junior; on the whole, a rather calm junior at that. The experiences of your first two years have mellowed and somewhat numbed you, so for the most part you are harmless. Now here comes somebody to test your knowledge of the campus. You never know when this favor could pay off for you later, so you give as precise a set of directions as you can: "Stepan Center? Yes ... uh, go down approximately five-hundred yards until you come to a traffic light. It will either be red or green, although I do remember it on occassion being yellow. Make a left turn there. Then you go down about one thousand and twenty-five .... " You are not quite as polite as you are afraid of making a bad impression. 

I happened to walk by the guar­over asking SMC security to use Twelve months manage to escape over the wall, and you come dhouse when my two friends pulled mace only in cases of physical back to your home, sweet, off-campus, home. You're thumbing oneIncident danger. Other than that there was way and this character who is going the other way stops, rolls down
in I couldn't resist one more crack nothing else that could be done. his window a11d yells into your haggard face. Quickly you composeso I looked at them and said, "Nice The official complaint on the top of yourself: "Stepan Center? Hey buddy, I'm sorry, but I don't... ohuniform!" The one without theatSMC the report was man in woman's yeah! I remember now. Stepan Center. Here, let me get in and I'll 

uniform went mental and told me room after hours. In the report guide you there personally. It's right across the street from the"That's it. You're coming in right security said they stopped me to Colfax apartments."

now." I told him I wasn't and I

Dear Editor, explain that I couldn't go up there Now, the years hurry by like students out of Emil T., and many a
kept walking. He yelled "Turn without an R.A. or something, but I fall has seen you return to your Alma Mater. How many years?

In regards to the excellent job around!" or. something like that had the assistant rectress Thirty? Forty? It doesn't matter. You simply enjoy being a part of SMC security does. 

and when I did I caught a stream of the school again and you hearken back to memories of things long 
Last Wednesday night <Sept. 25) mace all across my face. I was 10-Mike Sculati past. Suddenly a car pulls up alongside you: "Excuse me pops, but at 2:30 a.m. another guy and 15 feet away, back turned and 201 Dillon can you tell me how to get to Stepan Center?" The years roll back. 
myself brought two friends back to leaving and he still found the need You are as an undergrad again and you are honored at the question, Regina South. One was totally to mace me. and somewhat flattered. An answer starts to come: "You go...",
passed out and we were going to but it is cut short as you stare off toward the horizon, and a slyThe official report said thecarry her up to her room. The Plea for smile works its way across your face: "You go... you go around the student kept up abusive languagerectress told us we weren't going lakes until you come to something that looks like a cave ... " until we had to mace him. I'm sureto take the • girl upstairs after I did use some abusive languagehours. I said we were but then the 

Prisoners
but no language warrants the useother guy split. In the meantime 
DOONESBURY
of mace. If these guards are notanother lady, who turned out to be mature enough to handle somethe assistant rectress, came down. 
Dear Editor:abuse or criticism then one of twoShe and the girl's friend went with I am writing this letter in appealthings should be done. Eilh theme as I brought the girl up to her for the inmates in the Southernman should be fired or have hisroom on the 3rd floor. On the way Ohio Correctional Facility In­mace taken away. What would

down I ran into security who then stitution. We have no family or PlEASE,
happen if he really got hassled?

proceeded to hassle about being up 5/R., I 00
friends who care to write or who 
INIJ&&IJ.
there after hours. I hassled back. 
we can correspond with. Nobody

As I'd had a few myself I'm sure I The next day I went to file a I
knows or cares if these men exist.
complaint at Dean Macheca's to keep it cool.I told them what nice If some of these inmates could used some obscenities, but I tried 
office. He wasn't there but Mrs. uniforms they had and how cool McCabe, the assistant Dean, was. receive a letter once in a while they were because they had a She said she'd check out my in­from somebody, their whole 
badge. I did this as sarcastically formation and then push the outlook and future would be much 
as possible until we reached the complaint through. Monday she brighter. 
door and I left. While leaving SMC told me that they had sent a report 
We are rejects of society being punished for crimes we com­mitted. But most of us are
the observer 
rehabilitating ourselves to enter society again. We are not asking
Night Editor -· Thomas O'Neil 
for much, just some friendship from people of the outside world.
Ass't Night Editor --Joe Kanabrockl Layout .. Martha Fanning, Franz Lanzlnger, Jim Stevens, Tom 
We will welcome pen-pals young 
Thanas 
or old, male or female, who wish to
Copy Reader .. Pat Hanifin 
discuss or ask questions on any
Day Editor ·-Gregg Bangs 
subject. To those who write: Editorials --Fred Graver Please state in your first letter the Sports .. Pete McHughs age or race of person you wish to 
correspond with and, if you have
Typists·· H.V. Dyke, Barb Norcross, M. Tobin, Tom Modglin, J. 
any special interests you wish to
Lanols, Dave Rust 
discuss such as Art, Crafts, Sports, 
Compugraphic Operator --Tom Whelan 
or Hobbies, so you can be better
Picture Screener --AI 
matched.
Night Controllers --Tim Murphy, Dave Rust 
Direct your first letter to Sonny Stanford: Keep Your Stereos Down Royce No. 138-827 P.O. Box 787, 
by Garry Trudeau 
d\)~ 
N&PHEIAI, TH& PHO/i?O fEUOWSHIPS ARf H16HlY COVETEP. 1H&Y PROVI~ Y&~ A fi/U. Y&AR'S ex­UNCLE­P£NSES fOR. tuOI<THY I KNOW 
PR.Ov£CTSI j TH/5 .. I 
YOIJMEAN 
•V!ETNAMJZATION. • I «KJJr7" Of COI/I?S&. >C/(/188£~. 
I I 
' 
,I ' 
•. ''' 
~ 

Lucasville, Ohio 45648. ~--------------~ ~--------GJ~y~~~-~{~~ 

Students want more steak 
The second phase of the advisory committee is to trigger a foodby Pat Cuneo 
ecology movement. This,
Staff Reporter 

however, is in the very early planning stages. The segment _will Edmund Price, director of food include testing of various recipesservices, met with the Student for future use and refinement for 
Advisory Committee yesterday to 
some currentones. 

discuss the possibility of having more steak nights. No decision The third phase is the use of the was reached. committee as a complaint board. Price explained, "there was 
Many ideas have already been little time to discuss the many 
submitted and they welcome new suggestions of the committee, but 
we have scheduled another meeting in two weeks." 

Marching Band to

The council's major objective in the meeting was the suggestion of 
Thursday, October 3, 1974 

5 

.r----------­
the observer Thursday, October 3, 1974
6 

TIRED OF TAL
Cmnpus Briefs • • • 

ABOUT POLITICS? 


An intermission featuring whatDear Abby and Miss Stevens called "fantastic nineteenth century pastries from M:zrvella Bayh Dainty Maid," will divide the presentation which should end about 10 p.m. Miss Stevens saidto appear Friday the music department "really 
packed the place last year," and by Mark Jahne they anticipate a crowd of about Starr Reporter 100 people tonight. 
"A Visit with Dear Abby and Marvella Bayh" will occur on Student lblion to Friday, October 4, at 9:00 a.m. The lecture will be in Washington sponsor bus tripHall, immediately after a press conference at 8:45. 
for lr5Ugmue
Abigail Van Buren is a noted columnist, writer and lecturer. by John Corrao Her "Dear Abby" column appears 
Starr Reporter
daily in newspapers everywhere in the United States. Marvella Bayh is the wife of United States Senator 
The Student Union is sponsoring Birch Bayh of Indiana. 
a bus trip to Michigan State thisThe lecture will last ap­Saturday, October 5. Tickets for 
proximately ninety minutes, and is the trip will be on sale in the sponsored by the Notre Dame 
Student Union Ticket Office during Cultural Artss Commission and the 

.. the remainder of the week . 
Education Association of South Buses will leave from the Circle Bend. 
at 8:30 am Saturday and will arrive in Lansing at about 12:15Sl£ to present pm. Lunch will be furnished at this 
19...L Century SOrvT ti~e. In addition, there will be a 
Ul •--::~ v1ctory party on the return bus ride. Beer (kegs) will be provided. 
arxl. piano night 
Students will be back on campus 
by 8:30pm. Afterwards, there will by Susan Divita be a mini-concert in Stepan Center. Staff Reporter 
Total cost for the trip is $21 , which covers game tickets, round St. Mary's music students will trip bus fare, lunch, victory party, present an evening of singing and and admission to the concert.
piano in late nineteenth century style tonight at 8 p.m. in Stapleton For further information, call Lounge, St. Mary's. Tickets are $1 8372 or get in touch with Rick and can be bought at the Guiltinan at Student Union, 7757. Programming Office at St. Mary's or at the door. 
Run-off election
All the performers are studying under either Miss Susan M. Stevens or Miss Dana Spencer of scheduled far the St. Mary's Music Department. The students, costumed in late Sl\C candidates nineteenth century apparel, will be presenting a picture of family and by Cathy Busto 
Starr Reporter
friends gathering together. Songs, duets piano solos and a group number comprise the program. Diane Blair and Michelle 

McGowan will try to break the tie between themselves in the Junior Class elections today. The elec­tions will be the second run-{)ff between the girls, who both tied in last year's initial run-{)ff. for the secretarial position. 
Both girls emphasize class unity. 

Diane makes no dramatic 
promL;es. She feels that it is im­GET INVOLVED! 
portant to be sincere about what 
she is going to do. She has at­
Help Elect Repub Iicon Mayor of
tended all of the meetings and she would like to have "more par­
Indianapolis RICHARD LUGAR 
ticipation by everyone." 
to the United States Senate. 

Michelle feels that the Junior Class Council has some good ideas. 
If You Can Help, Please Call: 
She is trying "to emphasize 
Leo • 6984 Brian 289 -3923
creativity and enthusiasm by 
working with the Class Officers 
and the Class Council." 

At press time, the voting procedure was not announced. 
However, both candidates ex­t G~ ~ 
pected it to be substantially the same as last year. ~ * 
Giffin to gather 'night people'at 




I~ ~ i 
Ibr.bys Plc:re' t Elliot Gould Candice Bergen ~ 
~ :
By Bob Mader t TH.RS.· FRI.· SAT. ~ 
Staff Reporter 

t 7:30, 9:00, 12:00 All Nites * 
Fr. Robert Griffin, University Chaplain, plans to open a place for 

t KNIGHTS OF Ca.UMBUS !
"night people" in the Coffee House in LaFortune starting October 7. t Admission 1.00 Nembers Free : 
Fr. Griffin has named this 

haven, which will be open between ~*********************************** midnight and 4:30 a.m., Monday through Thursday, "A Clean Well­Lighted Place," after a story by 
IT Hemingway. He will offer his visitors talk, coffee, donuts, or solitude as they prefer. 

STillFORD 
"For a couple of years I've thought I'd like to be connected with such a place on campus," Fr. 

EIOIIIEEIIIIG
Griffin related. "There are ni~ht people at Notre Dame," he con­tinued. "Some are insomniacs. Some are restless. Some are 

ISthe professional art of applying science merely bored. Some would come 
to the optimum conversion of natural resources because they're just friendly and 
to the benefit of man." hate to face the aloneness of the night. Some people might come 
Stanford School of Engineering's wide-ranging graduate programs 
offer qualified men and women exciting avenues to rewarding,
despite that fact that I'm there," 

satisfying, professional careers.
Fr. Griffin commented. 
Because he felt a need for such a 

The Stanford School of Engineering is searching for graduate 
place on campus, Fr. Griffin 

students from among qualified majors in engineering, mathematics, 
and the sciences.
presented his idea to Bill McLean, 
Ombudsman Director, although he 

A representative from the school will be on campus to discuss didn't think it would be given Stanford's ten engineering departments and interdisciplinary serious consideration. However, programs, research opportunities, the financial assistance available the thought was given enthusiastic and other aspects of engineering at Stanford. ' support by Student Government. 
• Wednesday, October 9
"Maybe it won't turn out to be worth the effort," Fr. Griffin Make arrangements to meet him through concluded. "Then I'll retire with • Placement Bureau my dog to my room. On the other 
Or write to
hand, it might inspire me to be the 

8 Stanford School of Engineering, Stanford, California 94305
chief night person on campus." 



GIRLS ONLY: 
723 SOUTH BEND AVE.
1-----------·----------­
KEENAN HALL ARMORY PARTY 
J 1M-CLASS OF '63 
CHUCK-CLASS OF '65 
AT LAUGHIN PLACE STABLES, MICH. 
PROPRIETORS 
-----------·----------­THE DINGER 
FRI. OCT 4th
IS HERE
-----· 
MENTION AD AND 
Hay Ride 

DISTILLERY T-SHIRT ONLY$2.25 
Bon Fire 

:------··-----------· 
Swimming


L 0 B BE R M.S. U .I 
---------·-------­
MUSIC PROVIDED BY TAl.ISIV\AN

c_:;, Stadium 
Bus Wll Leave Stepan at 7:30pm and Every 1-bur on the Hour. 
~----------·---------­
EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT 
CHECK WITH YOUR HALL PRESIDENT
LINEBACKER-200.YDS.'ON LEFT.
.
··---,---­
DISCOUNT AVAILABLE • CALL AHEAD FOR KEGS 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION.
272-9800 
----~~---~1~-------------------------------------------J 



~ -~ ~---~---------­

ND-SMC Hotline opens 
By Doug Meyers Staff Reporter 
SHARE, a community service organization of student volunteers from St. Mary's and Notre Dame, opened its hotline Tuesday night. For the hotlines first night of operation, "response was good from people who were walking near the office" commented Kathy Nolan, codirector of SHARE. 
There are always two people in the SHARE office during the scheduled hours. Volunteers talk over problems of any kind with people and "are not counselors and do not try to give a right or wrong answer on a certain problem," commented Kathy Nolan. "We try to give people some alternatives that may help solve their problem." The hotline can also help refer someone to an organization or group that could be of more help in their particular case. 
SHARE first began operating a hotline last March and remained open until final exams. Students who became volunteers did not need any prior qualifications. A training session is given to the volunteers. The sessions have just been completed and met twice a week for the last four weeks. The purpose of the sessions was to give the volunteers an idea of what types of problems they would find people wanting to talk about. Local and SMC organizations were involved in the training sessions. 
"An outreach seminar program 
is also planned by SHARE for this 
coming year," added Gail Pocus, 
other codirector of the hotline. The 
purpose of this new program will 
be to help coordinate speakers to 
talk on current issues and topics 
for meetings to be held in the 
dorms at St. Mary's. 
Local and campus groups like 
student affairs and campus 
ministry will work with the 
outreach seminar. The meetings 
are still being planned and the 
topics for discussion are open to 
any area. Some suggestions on 
topics were human sexuality and 
alcohol. 
The times and places for the meetings will be announced in the near future. Notre Dame students will be invited to attend. 
SHARE is located at St. Mary's 
in room 15 of Holy Cross. People 
can call or stop by between 8 p.m. 
Thursdays, and 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Fridays and Saturdays. 
lbf11X111 meets 
with Freshnxm 
.Advisory Courx:il 
Dean Emil T. Hofman of the Freshman Year met with the Freshman Advisory Council in an informal discussion of such topics as the guidance tests and drastic anti-cheating precautions. 
Advisory Council members pointed out discrepancies in the mechanics of guidance test ad­ministration focusing on the hour written essay introduced at the end of the testing session. Hofman explained to the Council the rationale and methadology of such tests. No action or suggestions were entertained by the council at this meeting. 
The Notre Dame Honor ode was another topic of concern. Hoffman said that it is "up to the individual teacher or professor to decide on the application of the honor code. Some freshmen complained that their "integrity has been insulted" in some classes due to the drastic precautions some professors have taken to prevent cheating. 
Dean Hofman told the Advisory 
Council that all of their 
suggestions, comments and criticsms would be relayed to his staff for their consideration. He further stated that the Council's recommendations, in the past, have been a heavily weighted factor in the decision-making process of the office of the Fresh­man Year. 
Hofman also hopes to hold in­
formal meetings with the council 
on Sunday evenings at his home. 
jarres a. bath presents 


david carradine 
in concert 
with vvater 
also cppearin g th:xn::Js rrartin, folksinger, guitarist 
october 5, 197 4 rrorris civic auditorium south bend indiana all seats reserved -$5.50 
two perforrmnces  7 p.m. &· 10 p.m  
tickets  on  sale  mea  box  office  
music  Ian d  
boogie  records  

---------------~-­

Thursday, October 3, 1974 the observer 
7 

CLASSIFIED 
to 12 midnight Sundays through 

WANTED  Wanted: two (2) GA tickets for  
Miami. 289-4303.  
Desperately need Rice or Army  
tix. Call Pam · 5185, 233-1899.  Desperately need two GA tix tor  
Army. Call Rahj, 1612.  
Need 3 GA Miami. Will trade 3 GA  
Army or pay cash. Mark, 8420.  Desperately need 4 GA tix for Pitt.  
Call Dan, 1739.  
Need ride to Cleveland, Friday,  
Oct. 4. Tim, 8944.  LOST AND FOUND  
Lost: A silver and turquoise  
Wanted: 4 Army GA tix. Call John  bracelet. Has great sentimental  
or Kathy, 282-1568.  value.Reward.Piease call 4979  
Thanks.  
Wanted: General Admission tix for  
Miami game. Call Jerry, 232-6004 before 4 pm, 233-6160 after 10 pm.  Lost: White ski sweater; red,gold,black trim. Reward. Call 8674 or 8672  
Need riders to Kitchener, Ontario, Oct 4. Call 4604 after 6 pm.  Lost: Dark brown leather coat last weekend. If anyone knows  
Desperately need ride to St. Louis  whereabouts please call Jim 3107  
Oct 10-11. Will share expenses. Call Kevin, 8730.  Found car keys at O'Shag Tues. afternoon. Call 6917.  
Wanted: 8 tickets to Miami game.  Found: Thursday night at  
Call 255-7034 between 10:00 and  Nickie's, green windbreaker  
5:00.  "Jack Daniel's Old No. 7." Call  
289-3945 or 283-3439.  
Lost: $225.00 cash between  
Keenan-Fieldhouse; Fieldhouse- 
In desperate need of 4 GA tickets for the Miami game. Please call Rich, 6981.  O'Shag; Fieldhouse-Administration Bldg. Large reward. Call 3368.  
Need 2 to 4 tickets for Rice game. Pat, 272-5459.  Lost: wire-rimmed glasses. Sunsensored lenses. Between  
circle and Holy Cross. Call Chris,  
232-0550. 

Desperately need ride to Bir­mingham, Mich. area for Fri, Oct 4. Call 5782. 
Need ride to Cinci Oct. 4. Will share expenses. Call Deb, 4671. 
Ride wanted to CALIFORNIA during Oct. break. Call Tom, 3191. 
Needed desperately: three GA tix tor Miami and 2 student tix for Pitt games. Call Jerry, 1636. 
Need ride to Toledo Oct. 4. Call Meg, 4230. 
Ride needed to Madison, Wis., Oct. 3, 4. Call 8774, Peter. 
Wanted: 2 GA tix for Pitt. Call Larry, 288-7375. 
Wanted: need GA tickets for Rice Army, or Miami. Call 288,3176 
Need ticket or ride to Mich. State. Call Julie 4873 
Need 2 tickets to the NO-Rice 
Lost: 2 rings and 2 bracelets by Library Reflecting Pool. If found, please call 4834. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Motel room tor weekend of Rice game. Call Jane 7076. 
Fore Sale: '69 Olds Culless Supreme, 2-door hardtop,air, fully automatic poer brakes and steering. $1150. Call 1277 
For Sale: '73 Galaxy 500, air cond.,power steering,power disc brakes,-2-door hardtop. $2195. Call 282-2255. 

For Sale: 2 EPI 100" hi-fi speakers. $60 each. 282-2255. 
Philco TV, B&W, 19", 1'12 years old. Excellent condition. With stand. Call 272-2150 after 6 pm. 
Two General Admission MSU tickets. Call 272-3270. 
NOTICES Freshmen: 

All students who haven't picked up their Freshman Register must do so by Fri at the Services 
game. Call 272-0000. Commission office. After Fri F5B Student Union will no longer be Need ride to N.Y. Cityweekend of responsible. 
MEN-WOMEN October 11, 12, 13. will share ex-Jobs on 
Ships! No experience 

pense. Call Dave 1197. GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS required. Excellent pay. world~ ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE wide travel. Perfect summer job or STUDENT UNION TICKET career, Send $3.00 tor information
Need ride to Detroit, Friday after OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFOR-SEAFAX TUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER 
2. Call Brenda 4260 
DEPT. G·13 P.O. BOX 2049

--ARE 12:15-5:00 MWF, AND 11:00­PORT ANGELES ,WASH.98362.
1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TTH.

Bass guitarist needed; top money; 
no novices. 234-5320 after 5. 
TOM'S UNIVERSITY Hi! My name is Matt. Today is my
STAN­DARD AT IRONWOOD AND ST. 
birthday. Please stop me on the 

Desperately need 1 GA ticket for RD. 23 WILL GIVE YOU A FREE quad and wish me many happy 
Rice and 4 for Pitt. Call Beth, 5144. N.D. GLASS WITH A FILL-UP. 
returns. 
-·--···--­


ADS 
Junior League Thrift Shop: over 30,000 items new and used clothing, furniture, housewares, etc. The sale will be at the 4-H fairgrounds, Saturday, October 5. 9:00am · 5:00 pm. Free parking, free admission. Take Miami 1 mile past Scottsdale 1o Jackson Road. 
Money? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15-12:15. 
TALISMAN AVAILABLE FOR 
PARTIES, DANCES, CONCERTS, 
& PREGAME PIERFORMANCES. 
CALL 272-9895 FOR IN­
FORMATION. 
TICKETS FOR THE OCTOBER 20 AEROSMITH & MAHOGANY RUSH CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AUrJITORIUM ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
DAILY NEW YORK TIMES -at Pandora's Books, every morning, 10:00 am. Sunday Times at 9 pm! 
NO BACKPACKERS MEETING. Thurs. 8 PM La Fortune Auditorium. 
FOR RENT 
Modern executive 2-bedroom cottage located on 30 wooded acres of St. Joseph River frontage and Orchard Hills Giolf Course. Win­terized cottage also features large fireplace, wall-to-wall carpeting, fully equipped k1itchen, and riding horses. Perfect 'lor out-of-towners on Notre Dame football weekends with only a 20 minute ride to the stadium. $150 pE!r week. Call 616­695-6043. 
PERSONALS 
To 406 & 407 Stanford: How about a truce? We're rapidly developing an allergy to shaving cream. We'll bill for damages later. 
Jinny, Cheri, Ann 
P.S. Thanks to the 4th floor for their hospitality Tues. night. 
Roberta Stone Still Exists. 
The real "Baby Face" of the NO Band is alive and living in the Tuba section: Charles Bathon 
For shower and shave contact the cream of the crop, 4th floor east-west Stanford. Endorsed by Jinny, Cheri, Ann Marie, 2nd floor Farley. 
A.M. & Sue Baby, 
Like what is written on the floor is real. yours, 

~ ... j 
the observer Thurs_day, October 3, 1974 
Second time is sweetest for DiNardo 
by Bill Brink 
One game does not a season make. At least not for Gerry DiNardo. 
Despite the Irish's 31-20 loss at the hands of Purdue Sauturday, the senior offensive guard stil forsees a successful season and does not rule out a national championship. For according to Gerry, national championship would be better the second time around. And for him, this year is the last time around. 
"Last year was the best time I've ever had playing football. It was the most fun," said Gerry. "As a senior, I'd like to do well. I'd like to go out a winner." 
Gerry did his share in helping himself and the Irish become winners last season. The 6-1, 237 lb. native of Howard Beach, N.Y. played every offensive play with the first unit en route to the championship. This year, his experience and know how have established him as the leader of the Gerry DiNardo is still hoping for his second national championship despite the loss to Purdue. He indicated many ciritcal mistakes. We're a offensive line. Notre Dame's failure to convert on important third and fourth down plays was the big factor Saturday better team than we showed on 
Going all the way again this year A~erican brother, Larr:r. as an conservative. Campus life was lot of good people and we have to Saturday." would mean more to Gerry, "For Ir1sh starter was a great mfluence better when I was a freshman. I make up for it. But we have a lot of He is quick to point out, however, one, it would be the second time, on him. think the activity has been forced talent, and I don't see any reason that there are only four or five and that's a tremendous feat. "My brother didn't really push off-campus." why we can't be very successful major unbeaten teams left in the 
Secondly, it's the present, it's me to come here. He jus~ told~= Off-campus is the route Gerry the rest of the season." collegiate ranks after only three 
weeks of play. He remains op­happening now, and that's more what ,he thought .of the P ~.ce. has taken since his marriage this He remains firm in this belief,
important. ·• timistic about the rest of the
wasn t really .a big factor·. 1 was summer to his girl friend of five despite the fresh memory of the 
season.

That is not to say that the past is concerned a httl.e ~or my ftrst year years. "It's going real well," he shocker this weekend against "I definitely think we can stillnot important to him Gerry or so, as far as hv•?g up to what. he says. He admits that football is a Purdue. 
win the national championship ifstresses that he's had a lot of good had do_ne. But I m not -;vorrted consideration for the future, but as "It's all been said," he says things go right, and other teams
experiences in his collegiate life a~out •t an~n;t.ore, I don t even of now everything is still up in the here at Notre Dame. I don't regret thmk about 1t. air -softly, echoing his reflections on lose--but most important, we have coming here," he says. He pointed to a difference bet-· the game. "We had a bad first to play football. We can't rely on 
A graduate of St. Francis' Prep ween the athletic and social lives Regarding this year's team, half, especially the first quarter. I other teams losing, we have to do it in New York, Gerry claims the during his years here. While he Gerry concedes that his outlook never dreamed we'd be down 24-0 ourselves." balance of good football and a good thinks football has stayed basically has changed since spring practice. so soon. I still thought we could "I see no reason to lay down and education was his main reason for the same, he feelsthere has been a "I just thought we wouldn't have come back and win even then. And die," he says. Gerry DiNardo is coming here. He denies that the big change in the school's at-as much depth, that we'd have to I think Purdue knew we could not about to. For him, the second oportunity to follow his All-mosphere. "'It's become more try harder," he says. "We lost a come back too. But their last time is the sweetest. 
r·~:~~~'='':'~";;G''';==~:;,,=,,.;,,,l
ND Tennis Tourney slated 
The four remaining singles slots and both should see action in theOn October 4, 5 and 6, the Notre are currently up for grabs and tournament. Rounding out the 1974Dame tennis team will host an Coach Fallon feels that any varsityis a pair of freshmen, Brianeight-team tournament at Court­
m:Azarls BIG BOY RESTAURANTf
ney Center. This will be the Second number of six plays could see Hainline and Tony Bruno. Both Annual Fall Tennis Tourney held 
action. Leading the contenders for have demonstrated an ability to at Notre Dame_ The teams par­
the remaining spots is Chris Kane, play intercollegiate tennis and 1 52860 U.S. 31 North J ticipating this year include Big Ten 
a senior three-year letter winner Coach Fallon feels they both have powers Indiana, Purdue, Illinois, from California. Kane played no. I a great deal of potential. j))j TRY OUR COUNTRY FRIED GIO<EN iii! 
and Iowa as well as Indiana State, as a freshman and sophomore and Tentative doubles combinations 
will likely be in the starting lineup find Stehlik ?.nd Carrico at no. 1;
Illinois State, Southern Illinois, jjjj (SPECIALS 0\J lUESDAY AND THURS DAY)iii!
and the host Irish. on Friday. Also in contention is Hainline and Kane at no. 2, and Mike O'Donnell. A juniojr who either O'Donnell and Bruno or the
A round robin format will be Inchaustes at no. 3.
used in which every team plays played on the J.V. squad last year, )j)) Phone 272-9720 for carry-out service i)i: every other team once during the 
another man with the big serve, The teams will play two rounds 
::::::::::::~:::~:::~:::::::::~:~:~:::::::::::=:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:~:::~:::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:~=~=~=~=~=~=~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:!:~: ~:~:
three day-day tourney. The team O'Donnell will definitely help out of Friday, three rounds on champion will be decided on the the varsity this year. Two foreign Saturday, and the final two rounds transfer students, Ron and Juan on Sunday. Admission is free and
basis of the best overall record. 
With the action scheduled to get Inchauste have been playing well everyone is welcome. under way at noon on Friday, Irish coach Tom Fallon is reasonably • 
pleased with the progress shown 
Sailors second 1n Regatta
by the squad thus far. Coach Fallon lists the following men as The Notre Dame sailing team dividual leader in B division. his tentative starting lineup. The placed second behind Flordia State Florida State finished with 77 no. 1 singles spot belongs to Randy in the annual Notre Dame In­points while Notre Dame easily Stehlik, a sophomore from Peru, vitational Regatta Saturday on outdistanced third place-finisher Indiana who lettered last year as a Diamond Lake, Cassopolis, Oshkosh 79-104. frosh at no. 4. Posting a record last Michigan. Led by Buzz Reynolds 


1We welcome all 

stylists are ready to serve you, complete 
with the full line of famous RK products. 
Call now -all services by appointment so 
there's no waiting!
hairy problems! 
1637 Lincoln Wav W. 232-6622 
--_____________________________________j 





