r-~--------------~-­
On The Inside 
Candidates announce ... page 3 
Exorcist reviews ... page 5 

Vol. VIII, No. 81 

-----~----------­

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, February 18, 1974 
Soph Literary Festival termed success 
A sneak preview of Oates'latest 
by Leanne Jacques Staff Reporter 

Friday night and a crowded auditorium. Joyce Carol Oates. The Fabulous Beast. What's the cornr.10n factor? The Sophomore Literary Festival. 
What is The Fabulous Beast? H's Joyce Carol Oates' newest collection of poems, but -that's not all His. The Beast is a monster ... a monster of experience whose membranes reach ~ut and touch every part of life. The poems. m The Fabulous Beast explore these expenences. Experiences of disintegration ... psychol~gical experiences. Oa-tes comments, "I am fascmated with experiences that are at the very edge of what we know as human. These extreme ex­periences teach us a great deal about humility." 
Joyce CaJ"Ol Oates opened her reading with ~er theory of art. "I think of art as a way of opemng up comr.,unication between pe.ople... a Wa:f of humanizing one another." She IS very consc10us of people living their li~es as actor~ or heroes of stories. She's consc10us, sometimes almost painfully, of people's sufferings that are never told because they lack the language. .Oates believes certain acts of violence are a desire for some sm·t of comr.,unicaiion ... an expression of a certain kind of impotence. The people who coJOlPit these acts are unable to communicate through language. 
The Fabulous Beast, Oates explains, "is about history and at·t. By "history", Oates m~ans ihe cyclic nature of life. She. exp!ores Id~as of divinity within the universe m this collect10n of poen1s. The "divinity" lies in man's infinite capabilities for expansion. Joyce Carol. O~re,~ syas, "I'm fascinated by the idea ~f what hfe IS. 
She views life in terms of psychic energy. "All iife is involved in one vast expression of energy." 
Joyce Carol Oates' poetry is very .concret~ and current. It is high rises and gasolme stat10ns. A young girl eating potato chips in ihe rain. A thii·teen year old looking a-t records -through ihe window of LevHz's. Her poetry is about -the JO'omentary people and things that drift in and out of our lives. "There are so many people -that we see but never touch," she says. "We can never do' anything to them or for -the~n. " . 
Oates talked a little of her home m Detr~it where she is a Professor of English at Windsor. She says, "It is a sad situation. You hear now that one of every three, or even one out of ·every two people in Detroit carry arms." Recalling -the Detroit riots of 1967 Oates says, "So much has changed and so much is the same." When asked why she ended up in Detroit, she replied, "Well, it just happened thai way. Why are you here ... we here?" 
by Jack D'Aurora Staff Reporter 

"The Literary Festival has been great," according io Publicity Co-chairman Bob Griffin. "I don'-t -think it's ever been bet-ter " . . 
The Festival was dedica-ted to ihe British poet W.H. Auden. Gnffm explains that "We decided on the dedication after his death whic~ oc­curred three days after he accepted our invitation io comeio-the Festival. 
We were very glad tha-t he accepted our invitation and felt -that he deserved thanks for all tha-t he's done for poetry and literature." 
The formal opening of the Festival began with ~.-tribute -t~ Auden by poets Stephen Spender and John Hollander. In additiOn, -the first page of the Festival program began with a quote from Auden. 
Outside of these remembrances there were few others. Again Griffin explains: "The Festival was dedicated io A':lden, ~ut yet ~·s still -the Notre Dame Festival with nine other authors with -their own view, and we wanted their own individuality to come through." 
"We wanted the entire community -to get into the Festival." said Griffin. "Tha-t's why we had coffee af-ter the performances wit~ the autho•·s-we wanted people involved." Griffin add~d th~ a Chicago reporter covering the Festival since Wednesday, said that it was one of the best' he had ever seen, that "There was a beautiful spirit and willingness to participate." 
Griffin noted that every performance at-tracted. a capacity crowd .. "For example, at the last minute we had -to switch from th~ Library Auditorium to Washington Hall to accomodate the crowd seemg Jason Mil.ler. For Joyce Carol Oates, ihe partition behind -the stage in the Library Auditorium had to be removed and the doors left open -to make room for the large crowd." 
Some of the artists expressed their own satisfaction with -the weekend. Griffin said !hat "Spender lef-t us a note -thanking us for a lovely -time, saying he enjoyed H immensely, as did poet Mi~~ael McClure.:· . . . 
Perhaps poet Robert Creely captured the spirit of the week s actiVities best in his note to the Festival committee: "The vibes were good." 

Oates Singer 

Art, enjoyment same lor Singer 
by Chris O'Brian Staff Reporter 
Isaac Bashevis Singer spoke Saturday night to 
a packed house in the Library Auditorium as the 
Sophomore Literary Festival came -to a close. 
His lecture "Jewish Literature and Folklore" 
proved him to be a warm and humorous person. 
In his lecture, Singer stated, "The poetry of 
our time cannot live up to the poetry of Homer," 
and he echoed the words of Jason Miller when he 
said, "today, our thea-ter is almost stagnant." 
Singer noted that the three problems with 
literature today are, "First of all, literature 
today is ahuge industry, the writers are semi­
intellectuals who believe that writing can be 
taught in classes. Secondly, writers believe that 
Iiterature must follow the trail of technology, 
while the third problem is the diminished in­
fluence of religion in literatrue. Writers today 
have abandoned storytelling." He fells -that 
r.1odem literature is becoming collective and 
abstract and nothing more than a branch of 
journalism. 
Singer said that there is no reason for authors to bore their audiences for the sake of "a higher purpose." He stated, "Art and sex are sin1ilar; the act and the enjoyment go together." Singer believes thatthere should be no riddles in stories 
and that the words of a story must lift a spirit 
and provide a sense of escape, whether through 
cor.,edy or tragedy. "Writers," he insists, 
"should not be teachers, but tellers of -tales. 
They should stir the r.1ind but not direct it, 
because authors are entertainers in the highest 
sense of the word. Truth which is boring is not 
truth." 
As the lecture moved into Singer's belief in the 
spiritual world, he stated, "True talent doesn'-t 
wrestle with social order but with God. No 
writers are atheists, because they must deal with 
God. Authors may defy God, but not deny Him." 
Singer is positive that "true art cannot vanish" 
because "talent cannot be destroyed." He closed 
his lecture by saying "If the universe is an ac­
cident, so are we; But if it is r.'eaningful, so are 
we." After the lecture, Singer read one of his short stories and then answered questions. In regards if a reader or listener is io enjoy the book; he is entitled to put the book down if he doesn't enjoy it. If a r.1an refuses to tell me a story, I refuse to read it." When questioned on higher powers, Singer answered, "Yes, authors do struggle with higher powers, after all, everything in the universe struggles wi-th higher powers." 
From his lecture and from the reception af­
terwards, Singer pJ"Oved to be aman of wit 
and intelligence. He was truly a fitting clir.,ax 
to a successful Festival. 


Returning heroes . . . 
John Shumate introduces "Pretty Tony" Brokaw to the crowd of fans on hand to greet the Irish basketball team as they returned to the ACC (Staff photo by Ed Brower). 
Keeney. Zloza 


Observer na.mes two editorships 

Terry Keeney, a sophomore from Kensington, Maryland, has been named News EdHor of The Observer. Keeney's appointment is effective today. He has served as Day Editor and a reporter for the newspaper. 
Keeney IS replacing Tom Drape who was confirmed by The Ob­server FacuHy Board Friday as Ihe next Editor-in-Chief of The Observer. Drape will take over the newspaper following the Spring break. 
Also appointed to a new position was Marlene Zloza, a junior American Studies major from Lowell, Indiana. She will begin today as Managing Editor of The Obs~.>rver replacing senior Joseph 
Abell. Abell will ren1ain with the newspaper as Sunday Night Editor. Zloza has served in many 
positions over the past three years with The Observer. 


--~­

Monday, Februa,ry 18, 1974
l: the o~.$$r~er 
•· • C (I 't
0 
Patriotism 'alive and well,' says 
Gen. Post 
,arid 
briefs 

Washington-An Army PFC stole a helicopter, evading combat­trained state police and flew directly -to -the Whi-te House 160 miles an hour Sunday. The laughing pilot was shot down by -two Secret Service r.1en and taken directly -to a hospi-tal for a psychiatric examination. 
Cairo--Authori-ties in this capi-tal ci-ty say that a series of last minute decisions by organizers prompted a stampede of thousands of soccer fans late Sunday afternoon. The stampede killed 48 persons, injuring 47 others. 
an campus t:aday 

12:15 p.m.--seminar, "the properties of cholera enteroxin, a provocative protein which activates adenyl cyclase promiscuously," rm 202 lobund lab 
4: 30 pm-lecture, "the mechanism of morphogenisis during polar lobe formation in fertilized eggs of ilyanassa obsoleta," galvin life science blgd. aud. 
7:30 
p.m.--mexican-american series, "the social sciences and mexican-americans," lib. lounge 

7:30 
p.m.--drama, "poor man's broadway," a student production, little theatre, smc 


8:00 pm--basketball, nd vs western michigan, ace 
B & 10 pm--·cinema '74 jean renair's "french can can", eng. aud., 
$1 
9-11 p.m.--isis gallery opening, drawings by john bowitzt, old fieldhouse, isis gallery 


Candidacies announced by Rahill. Wordal 
by Susan Divita longer do we want -to be -the subject respectively. to the whims and fantasies of Fr._ Rahill and Wordal, who spoke in
Staff Reporter 

Burtchaell and crew." This is -the the Stanford -Keenan chapel at 7 "No longer do we want to be platform of Ed Rahill and Blake p.m., Sunday claim ignored by the Administration. No Wordal, juniors from Stanford "An enormous amount of cen­
longer do we want to be a minor Hall, running for student body tralization of authority into the interest in the University. No president and vice-presiden-t, Dean of Students Office has oc­
cm-red within the last -two years. 


Just -three short years ago, it would have been unthinkable for an assistant Dean of Students -to patrol random halls on Friday and Saturday nights." 
The hall rectors, according -to Rahill, staff and judicial boards should deal with -the students, not an impersonal voice from the 

Adr.1inistration building. In his Is it true that the movie Deliverance is coming to campus and if so 
speech, Rahill says the inaction when? 
and silence of students and student government. is responsible for the Ye~, it is tr:ue. Deliverance will be presented on Sunday, February 
centraliza-tion. If elected, Rahill 24m Washmgton Hall at 7 p.m., 9 p.m., and 11 p.m. The price of 
and W ordal propose a two-part adrnission will be one dollar. 
plan to cor.1bat the trend -toward centralization. What are the new Student Ticket Office hours? I suppose that they 
Step one of -the Rahill-Wordal must be different from last semester, since I can never find anyone 
campaign is incorporating a in when I go up there. 
Student Government Co-ordinator into the Student Government The hours have changed for the Student Unior. Ticket Office and 
cabinet. The Student Government your concem is understandable. To set the record straight, the 
Co-ordinator would be responsible hours are 12:45 2:15 and 3:15 to 5:15 on Monday, Wednesday and 
for setting regular meetings for Friday; and from 1 to 5 on Tuesday and Thursday. The office's 
Student Government and making number is 7902. 
sure no duplication of effort or contradiction of effort occurs. I'm running for an SLC position. Where and when can I get a copy 
'!'his way, the four factions of of the guidelines and rules governing campaigning and the elec­
Student Government, Studen-t tion? 
Governmen-t, the Studen-t Life Council, Hall President's Council There will be a r.1eting for all SBP-SBVP tickets and SLC can­
and Academic Council would be didates on Wednesday night, February 20 at 11 p.m. in -the Student 
united. Uni-ty of actions would Governr.1ent Office. At tha-t time copies of election rules will be 
present an effective bargaining available and guidelines spelled out. Also, any and all q1,1estions 
weapon agains-t the Ad­that candidates r.'ight have will be answered. A-t-tendance at -this 
ministration and would reduce r.1eeting will be r.'andatory and all candidates will be informed 
the defiant attitude toward student officially this week of the above-mentioned meeting. 
affairs. Step two of the campaign would 




International group announces talk series on hu1nan rights 
Beginning Tuesday, February 19, the International Students Organization will sponsor a lecture diccussion seri~s entitled "Human Rights in Society." The series will feature several members of the ND faculty in informal talk sessions. 
Lincoln Mui, a grad student in government, is directing -the series. He said the idea for the talk 
session evolved from a need for crosscuHural views of both foreign· and Ar.1erican students. 
"There is a feeling of alienation right now," commented Mui in reference to feelings between US and foreign students. He hopes that people from both groups will attend the discussions so that each Pay understand the other a lit-tle better. 
Mui added tha-t the series is for all r.1inority students as well as "APerican" students. ''A race is 
not a r.1inority in its own coun­try," noted Mui, "only in another country. An American in Russia would be in a minority." 
Warren Yau, also a grad student and president of the ISO, offered r.,ore insight -to the situation. "The philosophy of the admissions office is that having foreign students is good. A general apathy exists, though, not only between cultures but among the foreign students 
The Thomas A. Dooley Foundation is Working•••. 
in Cambodia, in Laos, 
in Nepal, in the hearts 
of millions. 

for information 
on how you can help: Write P.O. Box 1195 South Bend, Ind. 

themslelves." One aim of the series, said Yau, is to help dispel the apa-thy by building a response from the campus com­r.,unity. 
Mui explained tha-t speakers were sselected by their specialty. "For instance, Dr. Liu, our first speaker, has a sociological background in family," he noted. Yau added that during -the last -two years, there has been a lack of international speakers. The original intention was to bring in speakers from other schools, but the quality of the ND staff was as good as any other. 
Tuesday's discussion, "The Chinese-American as a Minority," will be conducted by Dr. William Liu in the Library Lounge at 7:30 
p.m. Yau also mentioned that 

Mui

refreshments will be available. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS There is still time left to rl)ake yearbook picture appointments: call 3557 or come to 2C LaFortune 9 to 5 Mon. thru Fri. 
Natural color photos and $ J sitting fee required. 

be to change Student Government body to do just that; ask, get in­into a direc-t student service. volved. The students should begin Rahill said, "we offer students the to feel as if they were a vital part of possibili-ty of a "We" oriented the university. Student Government ... with which Rahill is running for Student all studen-ts may become in­Government office for the first volved." time. He is presently serving the 
Rahill states all afforts will be third district of the Student Life r.1ade to make Student Govern­Council. He says he's been in­ment a "sounding board " of terested in the actions of -the student feelings. He and Wordal university since he was a fresh­porpose to send ou-t periodic r.1an. Wordal worked on the newsletters and make personal George McGovern executive visits to the halls and off-campus. committee two years ago and last The most important point is , "to be year. They stress their campaign there to get things done when we will not be a personal one, and -tha-t are asked." Rahill concludes. they will do their best -to get 
With this statement, Rahill and everyone, off-campus and on, Wordal encourage the student involved in this election. 
THE PING PONG TOURNAMENT HAS RESUMED. 
All those who signed-up in November, see the Bulletin Board in the LaFortune Poolroom for details. 
.r-------------·
AN EVENING WITH 
Rod





McKuen 

LIVE, IN PERSON, WITH ORCHESTRA 


IN CONCERT· FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 22 • 8 PM! 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM· SOUTH BEND, IND. RESERVED SEATS $4.50-5.50-6.50 
'Now on sale at Morris Auditorium Box Office, or by mail. Send payment with self-addressed, stamped envelope to: McKuen, Morris Aud., 211 N. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
Special Notre Dame-St. Mary's Discount! $1.00 off each ticket. Purchase discounted tickets at Morris Auditorium Box Office! 


-----~------~---~-
Dpinian.


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief 
Dan Barrett Executive Editor Executive Editor 
The Big Virtue 
NEWS: 283-1715

Lee Gentine John Kloos 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661

Business Manager Advertising Manager 
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Monday, February 18, 1974 

fred antczak 
Lobby To Lower 
Late last week, the Indiana Legislature adjourned one of their controversial short sessions and with the adjournment they brought a great deal of disappointment to the younger residents of this state...not to mention disappointment to the college­age people here. 
For the Indiana Legislature passed another session without addressing itself to the issue of lowering the drinking age in the state. Since legislation was passed a few years ago and then vetoed by then­Governor Edgar Whitcomb, the idea has been effectively silenced in Indiana State government. 
Whitcomb's claim that he didn't want his daughter on a tavern has satisfied the consciences of a lot of people and since then nothing has happened. 
One of the crucial aspects of the plan to renovate LaFortune Student Center is to include a pub in the basement where beer can be served. Yet, the plan is really senseless if no one proceeds to get the law 


A Literary Triumph 
The Sophomore Literary Festival has ended for another year. The theme was "insights into the human condition" but a lot of people got insights into much more than the human condition. 
Under the skillful guidance of chair· man Gary Zebrun, some plucky sophomores gave students-all kinds of students-plenty to think about for the next year. Some very talented writers 
WHAT[){) I PI/NNO. 
EVEN IF IT'S 

YOfl 11AK£ J: 6(/£55 
ONtY A CHAN6£ IN 

OF THE HE KNOW5 
fff!/15-FR.OM "CR./SIS" MeNTION OH, RI6HT. 
CZAR'S If/HAT H&'5 
TO "PR08L.&M"-I'M A PANPY /HAT 
ANNOVNCE· /)()1M3 .. 
GRAT&Ff/L. FOR CONGT!Tl/TIONAL tt!AS A 
TH£ R&UEf.. CRIS/5/ ClASSIC.
11twr; I 
MIK&? 
\ I I 
I 
:Z-18 
changed in the state. The beer aspect should not even be included in the project if no effort to change the drinking law is made. 
H-Man made a siginificant effort in attempting to establish a college lobby to fight for the legislation, but little was heard of it as the move failed to get any momentum. 
It appears that now is the time to begin anew on the project. If the wheels can begin to turn in terms of lobbying for the legislation, a proper vehicle can be established to work for change in the drinking laws by the time that the legislature meets again. 
Establish the structure now and be prepared to fight for drinking legislation in the fall. Either that, or forget about planning for a bar in the basement of LaFortune. That kind of change isn't about the happen without someone pushing it. .. 
··Jerry Lutkus 

shared valuable time with us, patiently answering our ignorant questions and calmly moving about us as if they had no greater ambitions than to be our teachers. 
The Observer joins the student body in grateful salute to the 1974 Literary Festival staff for being so ambitious and so well organized. Next year's sophomores have a tough act to follow. 
Schwille 

'DEAR MR. SOLZHENITSYN -AS A MUCH-PERSECUTED FELLOW AUTHOR, I THOUGHT YOU WOULD WANT TO KNOW THAT LADIES HOME JOURNAL IS A HOT MARKET THIS YE-.R •• .' 
~--~~~------~ 
NOT TO 

Like Father Toohey, I -too was grateful (if surprised) tha-t The Ob­
server somehow also neglected to ask my reactions to the Dillon Hall Affair. But when I read his column "The Big Sin", I decided not to wait for the Editor's supplications, but instead, to reply immedia-tely. 
Essentially, my reaction is gra-ti-tude. Ah, to be exposed to the iPPense splendour of love's utili-ty! Recall how useful love was demonstrated to be: (my emphases) "One can hardly over­er.,phasize the importance of love. From the very first moment of existence, love is INDISPENSIBLE FOR SURVIVAL, To an infant, for exar.1ple, emotional warmth is AS CRUCIAL AS VITAMINS AND FRESH AIR. We kid a lot about TLC (tender loving care), but people CAN'T LIVE NORMAL LIVES wi-thout i-t. Deficiency in love causes er.10tionalretardation and even dea-th." Love, then, is prudent, an exchange that pays off. 
Love's Utility 

I f·'USt say, the idea of the utility of love IS reassuring. Here, I had had all these apprehensions! H had seemed to me--must have been Py "Irish, Puritanical, Jansenist" influences--tha-t love was not a-t all Ihe sort of thing you barter with. For one thing, i-t demands so much; to fully love seemed to unlimitedly summon the resources of my spirit, far beyond what I could afford to give; not only a-ttraction, but patience, thoughtfulness, sacrifice, and imagina-tion. (I was even !-'oing to include "forbearance" but I wouldn't want 1o be considered "hard on sex". I Pight lose my credibility). Another reason I had not thought of love as the sort of thing tha-t admits of exchange vocabulaary is the awe I've felt a1 being loved. But, then, since both ).'iving and receiving are somehow unlimited, perhaps they do indeed trade off evenly. had simply never thought of a person's love as an exchangeable cor.1Podity. Instead I had been thinking of love as tha-t rare sort of thing that can only be GIVEN, not calculating its return, its dividend. But, thanks to Fa1her Toohey, I find that "Love is prudent" indeed. Ah well, the idea of "gift" never fit into any sensible sort of econoP ic scheme anyway. 
The People Exchange 

It is especiaUy encouraging, as I near gradua1ion, to hear tha-t love has no possibility of being tragic, irreparable. Here, I had thought that the people I Pus! lose-Phile, Org the Two Roomma-tes, and Tin Man <whor., I should have rnissed r.10st of all); the reader may sub­stitute his own list-were somehow irreplaceable. H was hardly a consolation that each has their permanent, if someday empty, place in ~"Y hea1·t. Ah, but now, with the relief ofthe stockbroker who got out in rir.1e, I realize that, if people are conm1odities of EXchange, they m·ust be INTERchangeable, so that the people who will come after !-'radaation can replace those whom I've loved and will lose, and whom otherwise I Pight have unrestorably missed. 
Christian Economics 

So, I enJoin people to spread this word about how love in psychological and <little sin) physiological ways, can pay 'off, especially if "if love" remains a vague generality wi-thout agonizing specifics; go, tell it on the mountain how, if we hear 1he Christian Pessage--an exchange economics of extraordinarily careful calculation--we need never deal with the feeling of giving more then we receive, m· loving without expectations, conditions, or reserva-tions. 
Our !-'ratitude is due to those who have n1ade everything manageable, l'alculable, sell-able--even our hearts. 
After all, though, it's a good thing that love works out so profi-tably for each person's private interest. Noone would listen if love were indeed the radical risk it seems to be, no one would listen if someone cor.lr.,anded, "Love, without thinking of return". Perhaps a more appropriate phrase for the way Fa1her Toohey has elimina-ted the probler.' and thus improbved the original idea, arises here: live and preach the Gospel, and you will be merchants of The Big Sell-the Bi!-'gest Sell of all. 
daanesbury IJarry trudeau 
the observer 
Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Night Editor: Maria Gallagher Layout: Gary Allietta Day Editors: Mary Janca, Jim Donathen Copy Editor: Rick Thues Pictures: Albert 0'Anfonfo Compugraphic: Carolina Typists: Camille Arrleh, Karen Hinks, 
Bill Menk, Jane Coyle Night Controller: Howard Halle 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~J 
Monday, February 18, 1974 the observer 5 
of submarines, insects, and baseball 
disappointment ... 
The movie, The Exorcist is a collection of "sensationalisms" taken from -the book by same name. The movie disappointingly sacrifices r:1ost of the original theme of the book, a showdown between good and evil, in order to provide the audience with a series of Pystical and grotesque happenings, that have Pade it a box office success. I would recomr:,end seeing the movie first (if at all) and then reading the book. To do i-t in the opposite order is a real "let down." 
Andy Praschak 
... more disappointment 
Ifyou really hope The Exorcist will be the Post sickening, revolting r.10vie you've ever seen, if you truly wan-t to be r.10re shocked and scared than you've ever been, you will probably be' disappointed . But if youy plan to judge the film as you see it, you will find the experience worthwhile and in-teresting. It is a r.,ovie with sta1·tling flaws and fascinating successes. 
The filr:1's first half is a slow , deliberate buildup towards the r.1ea-t of the plot, what Pakes it interesting is that you know what is cor:1ing--but when? Once the innocen-t adolescent girl is transformed in-to the bleeding, vomiting, obscene, possessed creature, the action moves swif-tly and ef­fectively toward the dramatic finale. 
There were several incongruent and irrelevant scenes that detracted from the filr:' 's credibility, the worst being the hospital sequence tha-t made Regan's Pedical examination and testing resemble a gothic tm·ture session coPplete with all the )!ruesome goodies. 
As for the acting, Jasom Miller was a allow such sensational, gross atroci-ties -to natural for the tense, brooding priest­occur. Possession by the devil is another psychiatrist who saves Reagan and destroys story ... whether it exists fm· real or not, I 
Little B-if:l Screen 
.art ferranti 
WaH Disney's 1954 classic Twenty 
Thousand Leagues Under the Sea premieres Saturday on NBC at 7:00 p:m. This film, which stars Jar:1es Mason as Cap-tain Nemo and Kirk Douglas as seaman Ned Land, was a tour de force for Disney, taking Oscars in set decoration and special effects. The plot l'oncerns a subr:1arine in the 1860's which destroys ships by ramr:1ing them and 1 eser.,bles some r:Hmster when doing H. Mason !?ives his usual solid performance while Douglas flexes his r:mscles fighting real beasties (a jo!iant squid and r:1an-eating sharks> in this Jules Verne novel adap­tation. If you have not seen this film yet or forget what Walt Disney could do, then you should catch it Saturday. If you r:1iss H, -the only way you will be able to view the Nautilus set and squid is by going to L.A.'s Disneyland. It is cheaper to turn on the 
rube. 
Tonight, If It's Tuesday, This Must Be • Belgium airs for the first time on NBC at eight. Thi,; cor:1edy, which is oftentimes just hur:wrous with burs-ts of laugh-provoking sequences sprinkled in, pokes fun at Ar.,erican tourists, travel agencies, and Europe. The characters are exaggerated Pxamples of Ar.,ericana but the sub-plots l'arry ther:1 through along with their superb acting. Suzanne Pieshette stars as a jiHed woPan )!oing to Europe to forget and winding up with tour guide Ian McShane who has a !?irl at every st.op. Michael Constantine <Room 222) plays an ex-soldier out to recapture the glory of W.W. II while Marty Ingels just wants the girls. Also included in the cas-t are Mildred Natwick, Norr.1an Fell, Murray Hamilton, Peggy Cass, Rev a Rose, Pamela Bri-tton, Hillary Thor:1pson, and Luke Halpin (rer:1ember "Fiipper"?). Two of the best sequences occur when the touris-ts enter England and cor:1r:1ent how foreign every-thing looks while taking pictures of Woolwor-th stores, and Sandy Baron's almost getting r.1arried to his Italian cousin, barely escaping ouHhe, bathroor:l window in-to a Venice canal. 
~·ur, 
reacting to the exorcist 
himself. Eileen Burstyn is ex-tremely ef­fective as the tor-tured and confuded r:1other, deteriora-ting herself as she see her daughter becorne a vile demon. Lee J. Cobb is sufficiently craf-ty and suspicious as the homicide investigator. 
Ifyou need to pull an all-nighter and think The Exorcist will be more effective than No­Doz, forget it. H's only a movie, and that's ihe best thing about H. 
-Marlene Zloza 
. . . tedious 
GnTITJT. A line often snarled by Regan in The Exorcist. But it also a good reaction to a tedious horror flick. Iy is a plotless story that is generally incoherent unless you have read the book. The Exorcist relies heavily on the violence and gore and of-ten loses sight of its r:1ain point-possession. Linda Blair, who plays Regan comes across rather poorly. During one of the few scenes she has dialogue, Miss Blair is stiff and. delivers her lines uncor:1fortably. Af-ter she IS possessed·, she has nothing to do but twist and -turn. The excellent voice of Mercedes McCambridge 
(? ) takes over and handles not only -the rough lines, but also the difficult invol~e~. scenes. Technically, however, the movie IS well done. The Pake-up is good, even shocking at times. 
. .. great horror 
Frankenstein 1974. 
That'sthe best way in r:1y r.1ind to categorize The Exorcist. The theological implica-tions of the filr.1 were largely lost on r.1e because I do not believe in God or a religion tha-t would 
Filr:1ed on location, the scenery is great and should bring back r:'er.1ories to any former Per:,bers of the ND or SMC foreign study prograr:1s. 
Part two of C.B. DeMille's epic The Ten Commandments is rerun tonight a-t eight on ABC. In this film, continued from last night, Charleton Heston as Moses parts the Red Sea, leads his people on their exodus, and destroys the golden calf and Edward G. Robinson (in what r.mst be his first and only biblical gangster role) with the two slates. Yul Brynner plays the bad pharoah Rar:,eses and Ann Baxter the temp-tress Nefretiti. Yvonne DeCarlo plays Moses's iongsuffering wife. The special effects are !!Ood although they did not take any Oscars. And if you can !!et by the romantic smaHz of DeMille's adaptation, it is afilm to be seen but I would not recomr.,end it for Biblical aficionados. 
Williar:' H1ij,den and Ryan O'Neal star Thursday in The Wild Rovers at eight on CBS. This Western comedy-drama presen-ts a fairly decent character study of two l'owboys in a dir:1inishing frontier bound and deterr:,ined to find some action. Their only recourseis bank robbing. Holden carries O'Neal through this film since -the younger actor had then not r:1astered any-thing r:10re rhan pouting and laughing which is all he did in Love Story, the great dating r:1ovie of 1970 which Pasqueraded itself as a soap story while really being a comedy. Also in the l'ast are Karl Malden, Tom Skerritt, James Olsen, and Moses Gunn. 

On Friday the story of Roy Campanella is presented in a two-hour r:1ade-for-TV film entitled It's Good to be Alive. Another in the increasing number of heroic spor-ts figure fi\r.,s, this one chronicles the career of the Bl'(lOklyn Dodger pitcher who had his career shattered by an automobile accident in 1958 Paking him a quadriplegic for life. Paul Winfield (Sounder> plays Campy with Ruby Dee and Lou Gosset-t as the people who helped pull him through. H airs on "The 
G.E. Theater" at eight on CBS. 

Wednesday showcases The Hellstrom Chronicle, pre-empted from i-ts firs-t 
..... _, 

cannot say, but the elernentsthat director Friedkin and writer Blat-ty add to the possession total up to a modern day Dracula flick. As a hol'l'or film, it is excellen-t. The tension rnounts through a boring opening half because the viewer hangs on through r.'ere anticipation and once -the action, terror and excitement hits, i-t hits with fury building up to the climactic exorcism scene. Today, horror films about monsters and invason frorn outer space just do not scare people. So, horror has to come form else .Jere (actually, enough hol'l'or is present in an everyday issue of an urban newspaper to force a horror writer into something special.). In this case, the horror writer 
cor.,es fn1r.' the unknown, from the supernatural, fror.1 the devil. In watching the filrn alongthat line, it is a real success, but a sor.,bering one. H's sad in r.1any respects that filr.,r.,akers are now forced to !?O to such senstaional lengths -to produce "r.,tmeyr.,akers" and that aspect can serve to wash out tremendous acting per­for'f.lances on the part of Jasom Miller and Max von Sydow. 
Jerry Lutkus 
not for everyone 
The Exorcist is a good, solid film but not for 
everybody's tastes. It is not for psychotics, 
neurotics kids under 17, and aduHs un­
far.,iliar with the language and perversities 
to be able to 'handle the film in a ma-ture and 
detached Panner. The film is not scary per 
se; rather it is shocking. The onlv horror 
Ail in all, The Exorcist is a good picture. 
One criticisr., has been that the beginning 
scenes of Iraq drag but, in retrospect, -they 
are necessary to the understanding of the 
fi\r., and the l'·'any sta-temen-ts it has -to 
Pake. 

showing by Nixon's Sta-te of the Union speech. As written three weeks ago, this fiiP presents a sornewha-t strained case fortified by judiciously edited clips on how insects will take over the earth after man has depa1·ted and how man is now helping ther:' along. Hellstrom is a fictional scientist who tries to convince the audience of the takeover. It is a pret-ty good film and it Pixes the fact wi-th fiction quite well as iong as the viewer can keep his perspective. It airs at 7:30 on ABC. 
On the r:'ade-for-TV scene, Elizabeth Montgor:1ery stars in A Case of Rape Wednesday at eight on NBC. Here Miss Montgor:,ery goes through the same trouble Andrea Marcovici did in Cry Rape! weeks ago but withou-t the cheap out the other film had. Ronny Cox ("Apple's Way"), William Daniels (1176), and Cliff Potts co-star. Cioris Leachr:,an stars in Hitch Hike on the "ABC Suspense Movie" Saturday a-t seven­rhirty where-in she picks up killer Michael Brandon. Watch 20,000 Leagues instead. 
The ABC Sunday film is The Secret Life of 
an American Wife a lousy comedy in which 
Ann Jackson, bored with being a plain 
housewife, !?Oes after a sex-symbol mo" ·­
star played by, get this, WaHer Ma-tihau! 
Well, the student body elections will be in 
fuli swing next week, so you might have 
sor:,ething better to do anyway. I hope so. If 
not, then there are a few films on campus 
worth watching. More on -that later. 
On the iate night scene, this week presents 
soPe goodies. Tonight, Spencer Tracy and 
Katherine Hepburn star in the 1949 comedy 
Adam's Rib; the film that spawned the ill­
fated TV series. Here we have the veteran 
duo a Parried couple who as lawyers find 
ther:1selves opposing .each other on a 
Purder case. Michael Crichton (-the author 
ofThe Andromeda Strain and The Terminal 
Man) directed Pursuit tomorrow on ABC 
with Ben Gazzara as a government agent 
out to stop E.G. Marshall from destroying a 
city. Wednesday, Vincent Price salutes 
honor filrns on ABC utilizing film clips and The camera shots are nothing shor-t of ar­tistic and photogenic especially when the ca~1e1·a is continually retreating zooming up quickly, and ret retracting again as when Cobb interrogates Burstyn --a technique used effectively to heighten the horror. 
coPes when the girl, Regan, is on screen 
and it is her actions tha-t effect any 
ernotional response from the viewer. 
There is r:1ore to the film than -the devil­possessing-the -girl-plot. Max von Sydow as the ailing priest, Jason Miller as Fr. Dar:1ien Karras, the hero if you will. Lee J. Cobb as the cop, and Linda Blair as Regan all turn in excellent performances. although Eileen Burstyn as Regan's r:1other is a bit strained. 
Art Ferranti 
what's the fuss? 
The Exorcist utilizes an amazingly small ar:wunt of acting; the most talen-ted r.1er:1bers of the crew being the r:1ake-up a1·tists and technicians. The special effects are unique but you r:1ight suspect certain press reports were exaggerated. Theological questions never really surface, what does is a lot of vulagrity. 
Plotless and boring, the first half of The 
Exorcist can hold your attention only if your 
are anticipating la-ter scenes. A r:1an behind 
Pe yawned with ennui and complained 
aloud 30 long r:1inutes into the r:1ovie, "I 
haven't seen anything to Pake r.1e sick 
yet!" Ftwtunately, he didn't but his com­
r:,ent led r.,e to ask, wha-t's all the fuss? 
If you know the story, <hopefully someone 
has told you and not because you've suffered 
through Biatty's popular book) there are 
no surprises -after you've seen what they 
did to that poor little girl's face. 
-Kathy Schwille 
interviews. Mr. Price stars in CBS;s late filr.' Friday in The Abominable Dr. Phibes, a real bloody r:1ess which r:1arked his 100th Povie and in which he squares off as a r.,ad doctor against Joseph Cot-ton. Price kmocks off his victir:1s using the plagues of E!!ypt, kind of appropriate considering -the ABC filr:1 tonight. All begin at 10:30 p.m. 
Channel 16's iate r:'ovies Saturday and Sunday feature Bob Hope which should be a ~·ood prep for his show next Monday. Saturday's feature 00:00) is Fancy Pants with Lucille Ball and Sunday's 00: 15) is My Favorite Spy with Hedy Lar.lalT. The only special this week is "The Ar:,erican Music Awards" tomonow at seven·thi1'ty on ABC. 
Films on the Campu1>: The superb filr:1 
Deliverance will be shown in Washington 
Haii next Sunday at 7, 9, and 11 p.r.'., $1.00 
adr:1ission, sponsored by the Glee Ciub. 
This excellent r:'ovie follows the exploits of 
four Pen down a Southern river trying to 
recapture their Pachisr:lo. Starring Burt 
Reynolds and Jon Voight, this harrowing 
filp is not for the faint hea1·ted or queasy of 
stoPach. On the other hand. the CAC 
fl1'esents Marx Brothers filns everyone can 
enjoy this weekend. Friday night !\lonkey 
Business and Coconuts will be shown. 
Saturday will feature llorsefeathen and 
Duck Soup, and Sunday has Go We~>t and 
Night of tht> Opera offered. The showings 
air in the Engineering Building at six and 
ren each night for $1.00 per night and no 
patron tickets are being sold. For this Marx 
Brothers Festival, Marx Brothers T-shi1·ts 
will be sold later in the week at the CAC 
office in the Student Union offices, third 
floor, LaFo1·tune and at the showings. 
Many thanks to Jack Wenke for the 
acknowledgement in his Scholastic a1'ticle 
iast week. It was appreciated. 
Trivia Question: Name the river in Deliverance (bette!' yet, try to spell it). 
·J<M!_ll aasseMefnqe;) atfJ. :J.l.\\suv 
I I 

·----·-----------~-~-----~.. ------------~--~­
r~------------------------~--~­
.
. 
6 ....... the observer 
Monday, February 18, 1974 

Details to be announced today 

HILLSBOROUGH, Calif. <UPI >-The father of kidnaped heiress Patricia Hearst said Sunday he would attempt to meet the ransom demands of the terrorist group holding her with a food plan involving "substantial amounts of money." 
Jay Bosworth, a family spokesman, said details of the plan for distributing food to California's needy as demanded by the Sym­bionese Liberation Army SLA would be announced Mnday at about 3 p.m. PDT 6p.m. EDT. 
Bosworth said the Hearst family had been working on "details and 
Engineering lectures to feature four 
Four nationally prominent speakers will be featured in remaining lectures of the University of Notre Dame College of Engineering's Centennial Lecture Series. 
Centennial lecturers to speak include Admiral Hyman G. Rickover, deputy commander of the U.S. Navy's Nuclear Power Directorate <February 22); Dr. Wernher Von Braun, former director of the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration'sGeorge C. Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville Ala. (March 1); Prof. Jay W. Forrester, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who has been a leader in .developing dynamic mathematical models of the world (April 3), and Buck­minster Fuller, creator of the geodesic dome and noted future planner (April 8). Dr. Melvin Kranzberg, Callaway Professor of the history of technology at the Gerogia Institute of Technology, was the first speaker in the series on December 12. 
All Centennial Lectures will 
begin at 8:00p.m. and will be held 
in the Center for Continuing 
Education <CCE) Auditorium, 
except Prof. Forrester's talk 
which will be held in CCE Room 
100. 
The lecture series com-
r.,enlorates 100 years of 
engineering education at Notre 
Dame. 


NTE exams 
at dulac 
Notre Dame has been 
designated as a site April 6 for the 
National Teacher Examinations 
<NTEJ conducted by Educational 
Testing Service of Princeton, N.J. 
The tests are open to college 
seniors preparing to teach and teachers applying for certification licensure, or those seeking positions in school systems which encourage or require the NTE.The designation of Notre Dame as a test center will give prospective teache;s in this area an op­portumty to compare their per­formances with candidates Ihroughoutthe country who take the 
test. 
NTE procedures are designed to 
acess cognitive knowledge and 
understanding in professional 
education and subject-field 
specialization. Additional in­
formation and registration 
material may be obtained from Cr. 
Peter P . Grande, assistant dean of 
the Freshman Year of Studies 
Program at Notre Dame, 110r from 
Box 911, Princeton, 08540. 
Hearsts and the kidnapers. 
"We'll have something today that they can respond to " Banks said at a Sunday confere'nce. 
But Rev. Cecil Williams of Glide Memorial Methodist Church who first received the tape deli~ered Saturday, told newsmen: "We've no plan, and even if we did we couldn't reveal it to the pre~s at this time." 
Charles Bates, who is in charge of the 125 FBI agents worlding on the kidnaping, said again Sunday that the agency would take no action that would endanger Miss Hearst. 
Her parents took a short Sunday drive in their silver-gray Mercedes about midday, returning to e Hillsborough estate after a half­hour trip through the hills of the Sa~ Francisco peninsula. 
"We're just working out the details and mechanics," family spokesman Jay Bosworth told reporters ourside the mansion Sunday. He said there was "no indication" when the proposal would be ready. 
In the recording delivered Saturday with considerable in­trigue through the minister of a counterculture church, Miss 
Chern dept 



Summer sessions set 
both semesters. 

Notre Dame's Department The three-week environmental of Chemistry has announced chem ist.ry course is designed for plans to sponsor Summer Session high school teacher, college courses in organic chemistry, teachers of general chemistry and environmental chemistry and undergraduates. Dr. R.S. Bottei, basic biochemistry during the 1974 professor of chemistry at Notre session. Dame since 1955, will conduct daily 
The two--semester organic 21hhour lecture-discussions and chemistry course of major interest demonstrations, Monday through to preprofessional students, is open Friday, from June 24 to July 12. to all students who have completed Three credit hours are granted to one year of college chemistry, students. including laboratory. Drs. James The five-week basic 
P. Danehy and James Duncan will biochemistry course is open to conduct the 90-minute daily students who have completed illustrated lectures, Monday organic chemistry and will be through Friday, two four-hour conducted by members of the laboratory periods each week, and chemistry staff fror.1 June 17 to voluntary problem-solving July 19. It will include 90-minute sessions twice weekly. lectures Monday through 
An instruction period, equivalent Friday, and provide three credit to the first semester, will run from hours. June 17 to July 19, while the second Interested persons may apply to semester will be from July 22 to the director of the Summer August 23. Eight credit hours are Session, University of Notre · 
granted to students completing Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
: 

National Coordinating Committee for Justice Under Law . 
PRISOl\: REFOR~l BE~EFIT 
CONCERT
~.. 


J.OHN 
• DENVER 
.tnd 
Nittv Gritiv Dirt Band 
. " 

STEVE GOf)Dl\lA~ Bill ()LIVER s,vofford 
MONDAY 
MARCH 4th 8:00 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME Athletic & Convocation Center Ticket Prices: Loge Main Floor Platform $6.50 Lower Arena $5.50 Bleachers $3.50 Tickets on sale at A.C.C. Box Office Monday, 
Hearst told her parents the kid­the whole state," said Miss Hearst, napers were willing to compromise who was kidnaped in a commando­on any "sincere effort." like raid on her Berkeley apart­
"It was never intended you feed ment Feb. 5. 
Assassination talk, film to be presented 
by R. Thomas Thues "Rusty will not leave until Copy Editor everyone is satisfied." This particular presentation has 

Rusty Rhodes, executive created a great deal of interest director of the committee to in­throughout the U.S., according to vestigate political assassinations Marinovich. A class will be offered will present the Abrahan~ in the Fall at Loyola University, Zapruder Film along with a lecture Los Angeles, using this lecture as a and question and answer period format. c~ncerning the alleged Kennedy, Marinovich commented that "as Kmg and Malcom X long as people are at the presen­assassinations. tation they'lllike it. Minds will be 
The iecture will be held Wed­blown." nesday, Feb. 20, at Washington "We may have some tapes of Hall and Thursday, Feb. 21, at witness' interviews, but Rhodes' SMC O'Laughlin. r.1ain concern is in answering 
The committee is also cir­questions, no matter how long he culating a petition to open up the has to stay," concluded National Archives in which are Marinovich. sealed 51 CIA files on Lee Harvey 
STUDY IN

Oswals, Jack Ruby, and ths original Zapruder film. 
GUADALAJARA, MEXICO 

The format of the lecture will 
Fully accredited University of

deal with the alleged assassination 
Arizona GUADALAJARA SUMMER

of former President John F. 
SCHOOL off~rs July 1-August 10,

Kennedy for the first half. 
1974 courses m ESL, bilingual educa­

Following an intermission, the 
tion, Spanish, anthropology, art, folk dance and folk music, geography,

;~~~de~·nfil:t:~~~e ::o~~k a~~~ 
government and history. Tuition Robert Kennedy, Martin Luther $170: room and board in Mexican 
Kind, Malcolm X assassinations home $215. For brochure write: will be made. International Programs, 413 New Adrian Marinovich, a Psychology, University of Arizona, spokesman for Rhodes, said that Tucson, Arizona 85721. 
:························································· 
END WINTER BLAHS WITH : 
/pring Get Away · 
The Most Fantastic Vacation Contest Ever! GRAND PRIZE: Five day, aft-expense vacation in FT. : LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA! : 10 EACH SECOND PRIZES: Three days aft expenses in FT • 
LAUDERDALE! ' ' . • 
0 VER $10 000 IN PRIZES! 
To register, send stamped, self addressed envelope to: Curtis Enterprises, Inc. P.O. Box 54617, Dept. 116 Atlanta, Georgia 30308 • . Hurry -Contest ends March 8, 1974 • 
·~·~····························~·-·~·~···'·'·~~·-········; 




Engineers:Find out about the Nuclear Navy. 
If you think you have the ability and desire to master nuclear engineering, the Navy's Nuclear Propulsion Program has openings for about 200 outstanding college graduates. There's a Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer ready to give you all the details on how you can become someone special in the new Navy. 

FOR MORE INFORMATION see the Navy in­formation team on campus Feb. 18, 19 and 20 or write Nudear Officer, 536 S. Clark St., Chicago, Ill. 60605 



7

Monday, February 18, 1974 the observer 
Records fall in CCC 
(continued from page 8) :JIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
' 

rec(wds. Accambray, a member of 
TEAM SCORESthe French Olympic team, set a Eastern Michigan 1261.2; Z. Southern CCC and Old Fieldhouse mark in 
Dlinois 96; 3. Kansas 51: 4. Notre Dame 48; 5. Bowling Green 42: 6. Western
the 35-pound weight throw. His 
Michigan 39: 7. Kent State 38: 8. Drake throw of 70'10" was fif-teen feet 2611; 9. Middle TenneSSI'e State 24. 10. Air Forcr ~; II. Northern Illinois 19:
better than his nearest compe-ti-tor, 
1.%. lliinois State 14; 13 ·Toledo 12: 14. seven feet be-tter than last year's Western Illinois II: 15. Central .Mictu· winning rnark and only five inches gan t; 16. Loyola of Ctucago 6. 17 
Kentucky State 5; 18. Wayne State 2; 19
sh(JI't of the new NCAA record. 
DePaul 0. Porter, who already has a 17'6" 
Shot out -I AllPn Pultkowskt (:\otre
vault this year, easily eclipsed the DamP) »-1: 2 Jay Baldwin (Air fon·p)
old ACC r:1ark with a 16'1"vauH in 52-4. 3 Paul CanhPr tlllinots State\ 51-8, 4 Greg LtntnPr (~Iiddle Tennes·
the pole-vault compe-ti-tion. 
Sl'e State) 51-8: 5 Jacques AccambrayKrainik broke both the CCC and (Kent State) ;;o.;_ 6 Tom frencks ACC records in the 440-yard dash (Notre Dame) ;;o.3 (:48.2), while Chapman tied -the 
JllliUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIUIIIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Conference and Convocation Center's standard in the 60-yard dash with a :06.1 timing. Southern 
CLASSIFIED ADS
Winois's one-r:1ile-relay team also shattered CCC and ACC holdings 
WANTED
with a 3:16.7 clocking. 
Need ride to Peoria 20th or 21st.
Notre Dar:1e's track team faces 
Call Susie 6982. 
Western Michigan Thursday night 
Lady will share mobile home.
at the ACC in its nex-t dual-meet 
Nice area. Student or older
action. Field events begin at 6:30 
lady. 259-3218 before 9 am or 
p.r:1 . and track events at 7:00p.m. 
after 8pm.

Sophomore Mike Hogan finished third and established a new Irish 
Adr:,ission is free for all students
record with this 15'6" vault in last weekend's CCC meet. 
NO Yearbooks,"Dome" 1908,
upon presentation of an ID. 
1914, 1940, 1959. Call 6311. 
Need ride D.C or Charlot­tesville Va. for Spring Break. Call 8549.
I McGuire's return spoiled 
(continued from page 8) 
English, SC's l>Uper sophomore center, who pitched in 13 field goals and four free throws, and who led South Carolina back into the game late in the second half. Bill Paterno's carom shot with 
5:00 showing put ND up by 10, 62­52 but his was to be the last two­pointer registered by Notre Dar.,e. English then began bedeviling ND from inside, and when he cooled off briefly, Winters picked up the slack. 
The 6-4 guard exploited the Irish defense during the closing minutes of the game-at one point he tallied IOuf l2Carolina points-and hi-t a pair of buckets during the final two r:1inutes of play to cut-the ND lead, which had once been as large as 13, to four, 66-62, with 1:20 left. 
But at that point another player took charge. Not the sophomore English or the senior Winters. Not even Brokaw or Shumate. It was 
2-cent hike in postal rate 
due March 2 
A postal rate increase, taking effect March 2, 1974, has been announced by the Uni-ted States Postal Service. The price of a first­class le-ttter will go from eight -to ten cents, the price of an airmail stamp from eleven to thirteen cents, and the charge for postcards from six to eight cents. 
The combined increases in all 
classes of mail will amount to an 
additional 2.1 billion dollars in 
revenue which should help 
reduce inflationary pressures 
being felt by the postal service. "I 
certainly think that everyone 
would be willing to pay -two cents 
rnore for a stamp to help improve 
the salary level and working 
conditions of postal employees," 
said E.T. Klassen, Postmaster 
General, in a speech delivered to 
the National Press Club. 
Rates will also go up for parcel 
post, although only slightly, and 
for rnail to foreign countries, in­
creasing, on the average, 20 
percent. As has been -the rule in 
the past, the let-ter-mail rate to 
Canada and Mexico will be the 
same as the domestic charge. 
ND freshman Adrian Dantley, and his four free throws during the closing moments of the game (the solid 6-5 freshman hi-t 11 straight f1·or:1 the line in the second half) insured the timely end of -the Gamecock string. 
"We didn't play well enough to win," frowned McGuire af­terwards, "but I thought we came back well. H looked like we were out of H, but we came back and r.,ade a game of it." 
Phelps praised his team's 
mage and meet Bobo's blank behind.

Twin losses in Twin Cities 
MARIANNE AND JUDI: 
No Way.
(continued from page B) 

Shelstad stopped the Irish on the second of two Gopher penalties and, 
Flash. 

after Minnesota put some pressure on Kronholm, Les Auge scored the rying goal. At 17:05, Auge's slapshot from the point beat the screened Irish netr:1inder. 
The Irish played well in the second, giving the Gophers only seven shots on 1/0al, but Minnesota, r:1Uch to the delight of the 6,473 in attendance, 
scored on tht·ee of them. Pat Conroy was penalized at 10:47 and with just five seconds 
rer.,aining, Minnesota's Phippen tipped in John Harris' point-shot. ***********************************}
Sheridan scored on the first solo-dash at 16:56 when he batted the puck * * 
forward with his glove and ska-ted in on Kronholm. The Irish netminder ;*
Jried to beat Polich to the loose puck 64 seconds later, but Polich simply .....­skated around hirn for the empty-ne-t winner. The Irish Pade a determined comeback in the last period, scoring lt rwice to cut the r:,argin to 4-3. Ian Williams scored from -the slot at 5:37, 1* 
and Larry Israelson tipped home a Conroy pass at 7:49. .....­
Minnesota drew a r:1inor penalty, and the Irish, wi-th momentum * swinging their way, wenttoworktryingtotie. However, when Bill Nyrop rried to fake Polich in the Irish defensive zone, he lost -the puck to the ~ Gopher, who skated in on Kronholm for the insurance tally at 11:47. * Sherldan added another goal later for Minnesota. ~ 
Shelstad,againbrilliantingoal,r.1ade36saves,llmorethanKronholm. ;:: Kronholr:), too, was excellent, making several saves to keep the Irish * close until the end. * There is no doubt that the Irish have indeed tunneled themselves a deep * hole in this year's playoff picture. Two questions now remain with * Michigan bringing its four-game winning streak into the A.C.C. this 1 weekend: Is there an exit from the tunnel, and if so, is there enough time .....­
andlightforthelrishtofindit? :
-------------------.* 
NOW SHOWING 
••TAKES OFF LIKE ABLAZING FOREST FIRE, WITH ATHRILL AMINUTE I" 
-Rex Reed, N.Y. Daily News 
JOSEPH E. LEVINE presents 
GEORGE C. SCOTTin 
a MIKE NICHOLS ritm 


THE DAYTWE DOLPHIN 


L_____________O~P_E__N~6_:_15______________~***********************************1 
2 or more Marcel Marceau tix. 
composure after i-ts 2oth victory in 
234-2795. Phil. Thank you, 
eel'tle ageiA. 

Need ride on t-80 to Iowa City, 
:.: starts-particularly composed 
we1 ~ Shumate, who finished with 
Iowa. Thurs. or Fri. Call 6416
26 points, and Dantley-but im­
nites. ! ! !. 

Pediately began looking ahead to tonight's home game with Western Michigan. 
PERSONALS 
The Broncos, who will mee-t the Irish at eight tonight in the ACC, 
There is so much r was, and you
were two-point losers to Ohio U. on 
at times observant
Saturday. The main event tonight 
better late than never. 
will be preceeded by a 7 p.m. game 
Dear Secret Admirer,
between the St. Louis Zips and a 
Brand X was merely practice,
team of Notre Dame gridders. 
It was you I hoped to find. So come out to rugby scrim­
*
*~ 
~ 
: 
*

* *
* ** A commission and employment * 
* * 
~ as an Ensign in the Navy or ~ ~ Second Lieutenant in the Marine ~ : Corps following graduation. ! 
* : 
: For further information, ,contact the NAVY : : ROTC on campus: Phone 283-7274 or 283-6442. * 










CAREER 
~* 
.....-
Jt­

0 pp0 RTuNITV ;*
.....­
* 

If you are within two and one half years of * receiving your baccalaureate or graduate * degree, today's Navy is offering a unique Two-~ Year NROTC Program to those who qualify. * Here are some of the benefits: *
* 
* 
*

** $1 00 per month for :
* 

living expenses. *
* * 

* * A scholarship providing full *: tuition, books and fees to highly : qualified candidates. : 
* 
Two mile run -Walty Rodquez (Toledo) 9:00.0: 2. !'\ick Eilts (East~rn Michigan) 9:03.4: 3 Dave Burkhart (Eastern Michigan) 9:06 1: 4 Kent Me· Donald (Kansas) 9 064: 5 Joe Yates (Notre Dame) 9 06 i. & Don Axt (Western IUmois) 9142 
Pole vault-Terry Porter (Kansas) 1&-1 (Breaks ACC record). 2 Chuck DeWtldt (Western Mtclugan) 1~6. 3. Mike Hogan (!'\otre Dame) 1~6. 4 Hooker Wellman (Eastern ~lich1gan J 151; 5 Steve Taylor (Eastern ~Iicht· gan) t>O; 6. Rusty Wells (lllmms State)lrHI 
1000-vara run --llllke vahagan (:'iotre Dame) 2·12.3; 2. ~hke Bums (Central Mtch1gan) 2:13 6: 3 Tom Preston (Bo~>·hng Green) 2 13 8: 4 Bob P~rlons (Drake) 2 IH: 5. Dtck Hanrath (llh­nms State) 2 16.4. 6 Rand~ Icenogle (llimm.; State) 2 16 9 
NOTICES 
SMC Summer School in London -travel in Ireland, Scotland, Wales, England and Paris. May 20-Jun. 20. College credit available $795 + tuition . Professor Black 284-4948 office 272-3726. home. 
Good tix now available at Student Union ticket office, for the March 1+2 performances of 2 Gentlemen of Verona at Morris Civic. Open 1-5 daily . 
National Championship beanbag chairs at the Senior bar. $18.95, lowest price in town. 
Tonight at 12:15 at the ACC: the last Grace tower Gorillas hockey game of the seeson! ! Grace Gorillas vs the Zahm Zoo squad. Fans Invited. 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Austratlla, Europe, S. America, Africa. Students art professions and occupations $700·$3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free information. TRANS WORLD RESEARCH CO. Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, Ca. 94925. 
Experienced typist will do papers, manuscripts, etc. Cart 233-5332. 
FOR SALE 
'63 Plymouth, power, new tires ood condition. Best offer. 8132. 
Lundwood foam core skis. with step in binding. 1'12 yrs. old. $40. Call Paul 233-3945. 
... 
...­

the .abserver 1\Aonday, February 18, 1974
8 
ND severs Carolina string; 72-68 
Shu's 26 pts, A.D.'s 11 It keys; Western Michigan here tonight 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
Coach Digger Phelps and the Notre Dame basketball team lost one bit of collegiate cage notoriety this past weekend, but just as quickly gained new distinction by beating South Carolina's Fighting Gamecocks, 72-68, in a contest played in the Carolina Coliseum. 
The Irish, who entered the weekend as the only team in the nation to have beaten UCLA's Bruins, lost that title in staggering fashion, when first Oregon State and then Oregon pinned back-to­hack upsets on the defending National Champions. 
But the ND cagers, not at all dismayed by the incredible turn of events in the Pacific-8 race, made basketball news for themselves on Saturday afternoon by doing their now familiar streak-ending "thing" in front of some 12,000 ... rabid South Carolinians and in front of a regional TV audience. 
The Gamecock streak-34 consecutive wins on the floor of the gleming Carolina Coliseum-may not have been as long as Marquette's 81-game at-home string, or as impressive as UCLA's 88-gameskein, but the Notre Dame squad attacked it with all of the determination which marked the assaults on both the Bruin and the Warrior records. 
And the Irish needed every bit of that determination, for coach Frank McGuire's squad came armed with its own brand of in­
· · 
centive. 
McGuire's return to active duty after a five-game leave of illness, the Thursday death of assistant coach Buck Freeman, the win streak, and the highly-partisan crowd made it clear that the Irish had their work cut out for them from the start. 
And right from the start, Phelps' third-ranked team, now 20-1 on the season, proved equal to every challenge the pesky Gamecocks could fling at them. 
Gary Brokaw gave Notre Dame the game's first lead, 2-o, when he tossed in a jurnp shot from the corner the first time the Irish had the ball. The Gamecocks quickly erased that spread, but then both teams hit a cold spell, and the score 1·emained static for nearly four minutes. South Carolina gained its first advantage, a bucket by 6-8 Alex English, with some five and one-half minutes elapsed, and kept Notre Dame at bay for nearly 10 minutes after that-owning one or two-point leads, or keeping the score knot­ted. 
Six-seven Bob Mathias plunked a lay-up off the glass just four r.,inutes before the half to give SC yet another one-point lead, 24-23, but Irish center John Shumate responded with a two long jum­pers, then Gary Brokaw hit a jumper and a driving lay-up, and the Irish never trailed again. 

bucket by English, who finished asThe spurt by Brokaw and the game's high scoreer with 30Shumate gave Notre Dame a points, cut the Irish spread to fiveseven-point lead, 31-24, but a at intermission. 
The Irish gained their half-time

Gahagan, Pulikowski win cushion by gunning over the 

Tracksters fourth in CCCS 
•


as Eastern Michigan WlnS 

by Pete McHugh 
Out of the heartlands of Mid-Ar:1erica they came; Chip­
pewas from Central Michigan, 
Salukis from Southern Illinois, 
Jayhawks from Kansas and 
Golden Flashes from Ohio. From 
Middle Tennessee came the Blue 
Raiders, from Eastern Michigan 
the Hurons, from Northern Illinois 
the Huskies. ~11 c~nverged on 
South Bend, Indiana m _sear~h of 
the coveted CCC champiOnship at 
the coveted ACC. 
The CCC is the Central 
Collegiate Conference, the ACC is Center, and this occasion was not a Boy Scout jamboree as Notre Dame hosted the 48th annual CCC indoor track meet and a plethora of 
I world-class performers on Friday and Saturday. 
OveJ·all, six ACC records, four r:1eet r.1arks, and a Notre Dame record in the pole vault were set in the two-day competition. And despite all the talent, records, and funny nicknames, the Irish track 
. team ,·efused to be mediocre as it finished an impressive fourth out of the 19-team field. 
, Ahead of the Irish were Eastern 

-
the Athletic and Convocation , Michigan, Southern Illinois, and 

Kansas with 126, 96, and 51 points respectively. Notre Dame (48 points) and Bowling Green (42) rounded out the top five. 
Leading the Irish charge were junior Mike Gahagan and fresh­Pan AI Pulikowski, consistent winners for Coach Don Faley all season. Gahagan captured the 1000-yard run with a 2:12.3 clocking, only a fraction off his personal best. In fifth place with only 200 yards to go, Gahagan kicked past four runners on the backstretch to take the event by 20 yards. 
Pulikowski, the strongman from Melrose Park, Ill., took shot-put honors wHh a 55'4" heave, a full three-feet ahead of the com­petition. Teamr:1ate Tom Frericks put the shot 50'3" for sixth-place honors. 
While Gahagan and Pulikowski had the only firsts for Notre Dame, sophomore. Mike Hogan and junior Mike Housley gave Irish rooters plenty to cheer about. Hogan set a new school record with a 15'6" r:1ark in the pole vault, placing third in the event. 
Housley, running the · strenuous 880-mile double, tallied 
for the Irish in both events taking 
runner-up honors in the 880-yard 
run and third place in the mile. Joe 
Yates (5th place, two-mile) and 
Jim Reinhart (6th place, mile) also 
scored for the Irish. 
For the visitors, Kent State's Jacques Accambray, Kansas' Terry Porter, Northern Illinois' Gerry Krainik, and Eastern Michigan's Clarence Chapman laid waste to CCC and ACC 
(continued on page 7) 

Gamecock zone defense, and by someonethereto pick him up." playing their own brand of team "It was a team defensive effort," "D" on Brian Winters, USC's echoed Brokaw. "I tried to stay dangerous senior guard. Brokaw with him, but when I got picked off, was assigned to shadow Winters someone else applied the whenever the Gamecocks were on pressure." And the pressure offense, but there was help applied by the Irish squad limited available when the 6-4 junior Winters to seven baskets in 22 needed it. attempts, and 16 points overall. 
"Winters could get around But the Irish weren't so successful Brokaw any time he wanted to," in their a-ttempts to contain observed Carolina's coach, "but 
(continued on page 7)

any time he did, Notre Dame had 
Gophers sweep ND; playoffs in doubt 
by John Fineran 

Will the Notre Dame hockey team make the WCHA playoffs? This question seer:1ed so affirmative before the current season started, but now 1here is f·'UCh doubt whether the Irish icers can indeed make the top­('ight tear:1s with just two weekends to go. 
Last weekend, in what was supposed to be a homecoming for the Minnesota players on the Irish squad, Notre Dame, with help from the host Gophers, dug themselves even deeper in danger of not being in the playoff picture with two losses, 7-2 and 6-3, in the Twin Cities. 
The setbacks left Notre Dame with a 9-14-1 mark in the WCHA (the same record as Colorado College) coming into this weekend's final home series against Michigan. However, if the season had ended last Saturday night, the Irish would have found themselves out of the playoffs because of CC's sweep at Notre Dame in November. 
Minnesota played outstanding all weekend, better perhaps on Friday than Saturday. The Gopher's play was a direct result of their aggressive style, something the Irish have shown more on occasion than with the consistency which separates the top teams from the bottom ones. 
The Gophers opened up a 5-Q lead in Friday's game, perhaps taking full advantage of the oversized Williams Arena ice surface, but probably because of their superior positional play. Warren Miller's centering pass into the slot was batted past Mark Kronholm by Pat Phippen at 3:07. 
With Notre Dame's Paul Clarke penalized at 9:41, Mike Polich dug the puck out from the boards at the blueline. Polich skated around the Irish defenders and in on Kronholm alone for a score at 10:45. 
Ric Schafer was penalized at 3:45 of the second period, and the Gophers' John Harris took advantage at 5:13 with a 20-foot backhander. John Matschke's goal on a two-on-one break at 10:06 and freshman John Sheridan's tally 36 seconds later made it 5-o Minnesota. 
Sophomore Tim Byers, who was playing before some of his nearby Bloor:1ington fans, averted an Irish shutout with his breakaway goal at 
18: 16. Byers, who was replacing injured Alex Pirus, whistled a 30-foot shot past Brad Shelstad, Minnesota's outstanding goalie. 
Joe Micheletti and Sheridan padded the four-goal lead to six with goals at 1:42 and 5:33 respectively before Byers' shot rebounded to Schafer with 28 seconds remaining for the final goal. Shelstad made 29 saves while Kronholm made 27. 
Saturday, the Irish showed improvement in their positional play, but two breakaways in the second period and a shorthar.ded goal in the third sealed the Minnesota win. 
Pat Novitzki forced a Gopher turnover with a bone-crushing check, and defenseman Roger Bourque took the puck and fed Schafer. The Irish tri­captain, from nearby New Brighton, cruised in and·took a 45-foot slapper which beat Shelstad at 13:03. 
· (continued on page 7) 




