~-~ ~ ~­
On The Inside 
Davis press conference •.. page 3 Nixon to hospital ... page 4 


Vel. IX, No. 16 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

Angela Davis: 'I am not afraid to say that I think Rockefeller should be indicted for murder. 
· by Terry Keeney News Editor 
Angela Davis said Friday night that· Vice­Presidential designate Nelson Rockefeller should be indicted for the murders of the 43 persons killed in the Attica prison uprising three years ago. 
Davis, the self-styled black communist leader told a crowd of almost 2000 in Stepan Center that Rockefeller's actions as governor of New York in September, 1971, led directly to the deaths of 43 inmates and hostages at Attica state prison. 
"I am not afraid to say that I think Rockefeller should be indicted for murder," she said. "Rockefeller ordered those state police and those prison guards to go in with submachine guns." 
Davis cited her experience with the law in her 1971 trial for murder, kidnapping and conspiracyin connection with the attempted escape of Soledad Brother George .Jackson from the Madison County
courthouse, California. 
"If they could mdict me for three capital crimes why can't they indict a man who we know had something to do with sending those police into that prison and the killing of those 43 human beings." 
Davis pointed out that Rockefeller refused to grant immunity for the inmates involved in the Attica uprising on the grounds that it would be an abuse of executie power. These inmates are soon to face trial for the Attica uprising. Yet he favored President Ford's recent pardon of Richgard Nixon, Davis noted. 
"What did Rockefeller have to say about this pardon'?" Davis asked. "He called that an act of conscience. comoassion, and courage."
Davis criticized the pardon of Nixon on the grounds that Nixon's acceptance of the pardon constituted an admission of guilt in the Watergate conspiracy. She stressed that Nixon's role in the Vietnam war also demanded · investigation. 
"I think one of many more reasons he should not be pardoned is his conduct of the war in Southeast Asia and his killing of thousands of innocent human beings." she said. 
Davis on Ford 
Davis noted that the popular perception of President Gerald Ford is distorted by the press. 
"So many people became so euphoric about Gerald Ford," she noted. "They attempted to present Gerald Ford as just one of us, you know, as someone we could all relate to." 
Yet she contended Ford's policies are no different than those of his predecessor. She cited the extent of U.S. Intervention in Chile revealed by Ford in a press conference last Monday, which aided op­position groups to undermine the government of Marxist Salvador Allende. Allende's regime was toppled by a military junta last September in a coup which resulted in his death and the deaths of several thousand. 
Davis criticized Ford's endorsement of the in­volvement of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Chilean coup. She pointed out that in trying to "de­stabilize" the Allende Popular Unity Government, .the CIA was undermining a government dedicated to "complete and total democracy." 
"Not only has Ford got his facts wrong on Chile, 
but he's saying the U.S. has a right to be the 
policeman of the globe," she said. 
"If you are going to safeguard your rights," Davis continued, "then you'd better make sure this man doesn't push over the same policies Richard Nixon did." 
Watergate and Injustice 
Davis contended that the injustices of the American criminal justice system can be seen in the treatment of those individuals involved in the Watergate affair. She pointed out that many Watergate defendants have been sent to such minimum security prisons as Lompoc, California and Allenwood, Pennsylvania. 
These minimum security facilities are known for their "country club environment", said Davis. "Allenwood is where Jeb Magruder gives tennis lessons," she said. 
Davis argued that such treatment is not afforded other criminals convicted of the same crimes. Many criminals are sent to maximum security facilities, such as San Quentin in California, where unlike Lompoc and Allenwood, there are walls and bars and armed guards, Davis said. 
Davis compared the case of former presidential advisor Egil Krogh with that of Samuel Poole, a black man from North Carolina Both were con­victed for the same crime (first degree burglary) about the same time. Krogh was convicted for his involvement with the "Plumbers" group in the burglar of the office of Daniel Ellsburg'spsychiatrist. 
Krogh served a six-month sentence at Allenwood. Poole received the mandatory death sentence in North Carolina, according to Davis. 
"That, in itself, should reveal that there are gross inequities in the system of justice," said Davis. 
New Alliance 
Davis' purpose in appearing at Notre Dame is to publicize and raise money for the organization entitled "National Alliance against Racism and Political Represssion." Davis, whose honorarium for her Notre Dame appearance will go to the Alliance, described the Alliance as a "Multi-racial and multi-national" organization to fightrepression. 
The. organization arose out of her experiencewith the Soledad Brothers and others. 
"I really find it difficult to see myself as anything more than an example of what masses of people can do," she said. 
Through her new Alliance Davis hopes to unite people of all races and ideologies in an attempt to fight injustice. 
With the Alliance, Davis said, "We can translate the will of the people into some kind of constructive force," 
Angela Davis' appearance on campus was sponsored jointly by the Black Studies Program, the Notre Dame Student Government, the New Frontier Society, Ujamma, the Civil Rights Center, the Black American Law Students Association, and the Black Cultural Arts Association. 
Monday, September 23, 1974 

Darby O'Gill arrested !!! 
by Bob Quackenbush Staff Reporter 
Handcuffed and forlorn, a delinquent Darby O'Gill, beloved cocker spaniel of University Chaplain Fr. Robert Griffin, was released into his master's custody shortly after his arrest Thursday morning. 
O'Gill was romping around the South Quad early last Thursday when he was apprehended by a campus security officer on suspicion of violating the University's "LEASH LAWS." This regulation requires that no dogs are permitted on campus unless accompanied by a leash. 
The .security officer who "put the collar" on Darby handcuffed the (should that be paw-cuffed'?) the suspect's collar and used the manacles as a makeshift leash to escort him to Security headquarters for booking. Keenan Hall law students are in­vestigating the possibility of an invalid arrest as it is uncertain whether O'Gill was advised of his rights at the time of the arrest. 
Enroute to the security office, prisoner and captor encountered a Keenan resident who identified the suspect. The officer had not recognized O'Gill and Darby himself was carrying no credentials and answering no questions. Thus informed, the guard decided to lead Darby directly to Fr. Griffin's residence on the first floor of Keenan Hall. 
There, a surprised ', Fr. Griffin accepted custody of the errant O'Gill, out the spaniel's complete release was temporarily delayed. It seems_the key to the handcuffs was stored in the security office, so the officer departed to fetch it. 
Meanwhile, it occurred to Fr. Griffin that all he neai do was remove Darby's collar, slip the cuffs off, and restore· the collar to its rightful place around the dog's fluffy neck. So he did. 
Momentarily, the security guard returned with the key to find an elated cocker spaniel enjoying his newly-regained freedom and soon left, locked handcuffs in hand, wondering whether the Great Houdini really had left his mysterious secrets in the care of the Congregation of the ·Holy Cross. 
Fr. Griffin, only slightly distressed at his companion's misbehavior, remarked worriedly, "I do hope I don't have to send him to Boystown for rehabilitation." 
And as for the floppy-eared Darby O'Gill himself, it is rumored he's glad every dog does not have his day in court and was last seen snoozing contentedly during his habitual lunchtime siesta in front of 
the North Dining Hall. 
*
*
* 
* ~ *
*
* 
~ 
* 
*
*
*
*
* 
~ 
* 
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
* 
*
* 
*
* 

Rockefeller reveals· v.realth • • . page 4 
Monday, September 23, 1974
warld 
briefs 
SAN PEDRO, HONDURAS (UPI) -Government officials Sunday burned thousands of bodies of the victims of Hurricane Fifi to prevent disease from the festering devastation wrought by the storm. An official said, "this is the worst moment in the nations' history." 
Officials estimated at least 5'000 persons died andamage would exceed $500 million. 
BOSTON (UPI) -Two policemen were injured and a truck driver was arrested Saturday night when a crowd estimated at 300 to 400 persons attempted to block distribution of the Boston Globe's Sunday editions, Boston police said. The demonstrators carried antibusing signs and were apparently protesting the Globe's l'ditorial policy urging compliance with the court-ordered in­tegration plan. 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Seven convicted narcotics violators escaped from the Federal House of Detention Sunday, apparently by using improvised keys to get through four locked doors while most of the prison population was eating lunch. 
SAIGON (UPI)-South Vietnamese government marines wiped out half a North Vietnamese battalion in a battle 400 miles north of Saigon, spokesmen said Sunday. . . . 
The spokesmen claimed 261 Commumsts killed m the two-hour battle Saturday. Government losses were put at 10 killed and 31 wounded. 
HOUSTON CUPI) -Fearing new explosions, firemen Sunday 
refused to let 1,500 residents return to their evacuated homes on the 
south side of the Englewood train yard, ripped apart Sturday by a 
raging fire. 
The explosion and fire injured at least 70 persons. All but nine 
had been treated and released from hospitals Sunday. Officials 
Saturday ordered 3.000 residents from the area, north and sou th of 
the yard. 
HONG KONG CUPI>-John Steinbeck, Jr., son of the late American author, said Sunday his recent imprisonment in a Thailand jail on a marijuana possession conviction was the greatest experience of his life. Steinbeck arrived in Hong Kong Saturday after serving a one­month jail term for possession of one pound of marijuana in the town of Song Khla, 700 miles south of Bangkok. 
WASHINGTON CUPI> -A Congressional report says China has developed a highly effective birth control program using mass­motivation techniques that would not work anywhere else. 
an campus 
today 
7:00pm, meeting, psychology society, Haggar hall, rm. 124 7:00pm films, 1973 highlights of the fighting irish of notre dame, washington hall, free. 
8:00 . 10:00 pm, movie, alfred hitchcock film festival, "spellbound", engineering auditorium, $1.00, patrons free. 
Pre-Law society plcms program lor undergrads 
by Robert Jacques Staff Reporter 
Tom Demko, president of the Notre Dame Pre-Law Society, recently announced plans for a new program in which un­dergraduate students will be able to sit in on any freshman classes at the ND Law School. 
Any student interested in visiting one of more classes can sign the lists posted on the bulletin board in O'Shaughnessy Hall outside Room 101, the office of Assistant Dean Robert Waddick. 
All classe are in the Law School. Students who signed up can go directly to the class or go to the office of the Student Bar in the Memorial Library if assistance in locating the class is desired. 
Demko also announced the placement of a "lock mobile" in the Periodicals Department of the library which will house catalogues of various law schools, the Pre-Law Handbook, and a looseleaf collection of various materials of general information. 
A calendar of upcoming events of the Society will be found on the cart which will be located next to the monitor's desk. Similar material can also be found in Waddick's office, which was previously the only repository for the information. 
Other events in the near future include a meeting for all minority students seeking entrance into law school. The discussion will center about financial aid and admission policies to various schools. The meeting will start at 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Sept. 25 in Rm 105 of O"Shaughnessy. 
The first law schools visiting Notre Dame will be St. Louis, Missouri and Dickensen in Penn­sylvania on Friday, Sept. 27. Any junior or senior interested in an interview with one of the representatives should sign the lists posted outside of Dean Waddick's office. 
The Society, whose purpose is to provide information and assistance to all students in­terested in law school, is still ac­cepting new members. Anyone interested in joining can contact Dean Waddick's secretary in the dean's office. Dues of $1.25 are charged to cover the costs of the monthly newsletter. 
The Observer Is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Marv's College. Subscriptions mav be purchased for S8 per semester (514 per vear) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

$75 LSAT REVIEW CLASSES OCTS & 6 IN CHICAGO 
Including the latest LSAT changeJ (announced by the Educational Testing Service) this intensive weekend course-given in NY & elsewhere by Law Board Review Center attorneys who are LSAT specialists-leads to an improved approach to the exam and higher scores by offering ... 
EXTENSIVE MATERIALS DUPLICATING LSAT QUESTIONS ANALYSIS OF LSAT's NATURE, STRUCTURE, SCORING PROVEN METHODS FOR QUICKLY ANALYZING LSAT PROBLEMS 
Follow-ups show that average students increase LSAT scores by over 85 points, some by more than 200 points-demonstrating the course's capacity to enable you to maximize your score within your ability. 
LSATs Are On Oct 12 And Dec 7; Preparation Courses 9:30-5:30: 
SAT-SUN, OCTOBER 5-6 
-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-
McCORMACK INN, 23rd at LAKE SHORE DR., CHICAGO 
Olfered By The Law Board Review Center of Chicago, Inc. 
COMPLETE FEE, INCLUDING ALL MATERIALS IS $75 FOR ADMISSION USE COUPON OR CALL COLLECT. •. 
(914) 939-2330 or (914) 234-3702  
Law Board Review Center  0 REGISTER ME FOh  ___LSA T REVIEW COURSE-$75 ENCLOSED.  
927 Old Nepperhan Ave.  
Yonkers, New York 10703  0 SEND INFO ON FUTURE COURSES IN (CITYJ---------­ 
NAME:  PHONE:  

LAST SCHOOL & DEGREES: 
PRIOR LSAT SCORES: COLLEGE BOARD SCORES: 
s~~

~t.\0¢ PRESENTS ~e\iJ~9 G~° F<X>TBALL HIGHLIGHTS' 73 
monday  7:00pm  
sept.  23  washington hall  
FREE  

WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189 
.......................··········•·•................. 
: CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION: 
:i  :MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES  :i  
i •  X  2 flLIVS  i•  
:•!• :••  X BOOKSTCJIE X LIVE FLOCH SHOW 1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET  :• : • :••  

"~ \J ~~ 
SPECIAL RATE ALL FOUR PLAYS 
$7.50 
Student -Faculty

SMC 
NDooSMC Staff 
$5.50

THEATRE MAILORDER::i 
1974-75 
NOWOPEN

Our Ninth Season 
~-----------------------------------------~ 
LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGEL 
Ketti Frlngs' Pulitzer Prize play basea on the novel byThomas Wolfe. 
Oct. 4, 5, 10, 11, 12 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 

A premiere production of this comedy-intrigue In the absurd manner by ND graduate Christopher Ceraso. 
Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00P.M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

Freely adapted from the Medea of Eurlplaes bY poetRobinson Jeffers. 
Feb. 21, 22, 27, 28, Mar. 1 at 8:00 P-.M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
~,.!~!~
Cervantes' Don Quixote. 
Apr. 25, 26, May 1, 2, 3 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
Name................................................................................. 
Address ...................................... Phone ............................. . City ........................................... State .............. Zip ......... .. Please.send ........... subscriptions at (circle price) $7.50 I $5.50 Totals ........................................... . Indicate date choice for each play: 1 st Fri. .... ... . .. ........... ..... .. ... 1st Sat. .. ......... ,·.................. .. Thur.i ..................... 2nd Fri.............. 2nd Sat.................. . 
Mail check for amount due and stamPed/addressed envelope for teturn of tickets to: ND/SMC Theatre, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. r -~I 
. ! .I 
I 

--~­
Monday, September 23, 1974 the observer 
At press conference 
Davis calls for unity against oppression 
Muslim separatists, but I will consciousness has been turned blood." potential but to realize thatBy Matt Yokom defend them when they are under away from revolution. There is a Davis also spoke out for women's potential a consci.ousness must beStaff Reporter 
attack." She reasoned that "if the concerted effort by those in power right to control their own bodies. linked to greater struggle and government attacks and destroys to propagate to this belief. She said that a woman should have other minorities." Davis said that "We must bring people into a them it will be easier to destroy me But Davis felt "there is still a the right to abortion and the right the women's and blacks' struggle
structure that will organize and our movement," response" and that is why "there to have children. She pointed out are related. Together, she con­
people militantl¥ an~ dr~matica!lY that often black women are told
The organization to which Davis is so much stress on organization cluded, they should struggleagainst oppressiOn, said .Angela 
belongs and whose banner of unity and movement because the feeling that in order to qualify for welfare against "manipulation by a systemDavis at a Friday afternoon press she carries is the National Alliance is still there." they should be sterilized that uses supremacy and prejudice conference in LaFortune Student Against Political and Racial Op­Davis' analysis of the country The women's movement "has to support itself."
Center. 
pression." was that it "is in a state of
The theme running through her of "In to
Its object and purpose collapse." referenceDavis' remarks was that of unity speaking at Notre Dame and Watergate and the unelectedagainst political and racial op­
Student Gover11Dlent
around the country is to convince president, Davis said that "Thepression. 
people to confront all racial and veneer of democracy at people in"In the last analysis," Davis political oppression. power have hidden behind issaid "all of us, of all colors, are blown." 
annowtces cutbacks
vicdms. We have to stress unity The pipe-smoking Davis gave 
On the subject of violence Davis 
now." extended answers to questions 
asserted that those who had power 
In reference to black asked by the press. She touched before the
in the system "control the by Lonnie Luna approved receivmgseparatism, the quiet-spoken upon revolution, Watergate, monopoly on violence. "We should Staff Reporter money. He emphasized that only
Davis said, "I have strong violence and women's liberation. 
ask the other side if they will use commissioners would be allowed 
idealogical differences with Davis felt that the people's violence; we have shed enough The Student Government Budget to place ads in the Observer. Committee announced yesterday Certain budgets were discussed, financial cuts in certain student such as Campus Mail, Mardi Gras, 
Bike security to increase 
activities for the first semester. and Campus Press. Burke stated According to Mike Schnaus, that Campus Mail will be student government treasurer, the discontinued if not used. Mardi
as campus thefts multiply Student Union , Student Govern­Gras will be considered as a ment and the H.P.C. will receive separate function. by Jim Donathen tremendous program last year," drawbacks. The final details were Campus Press will buy two 
registered bike, copies of the said Pears. "The minute we machines to provide better service 
Staff Reporter not available for printing and will
report are sent to city, county and started the program, we began to be announced Monday evening. for the students and halls that state police forces. see bicycle stealing let up."
A week ago Sunday, freshman "One point I want to get across is desire to have something printed. 
"In addition, each dorm should this: this budget has been These machines will now give one­Mike Kirke walked to the rear of set aside some kind of basement Pears suggested that individual developed with almost no fat, and day service and cut down costs.
Keenan Hall to unlock his 10-speed room for bicycle storage," said halls could set up a registration·
of his where there is we are looking into "I've done my best to come to
bike. All that remained Pears. But, I realize we're programs. Security has the you with a trimmed down budget," shiny white Vista was a one-half crowded for space in all the dorm-necessary forms and will offer help it," stated Pat Burke, Student Burke told the committee.
inch diameter cable and a padlock, s." and advice. Union director, "Last year there 
cut in half. was no control on money Those students present
Security is studying the pur-Security hopes to set up a winter were 
management.'' Darlene Palma, Dennis Sullivan,Keenan Hall residents claim at chase of bike sheds, eight by riine storage program again this year. 
Burke added that all com­Brian Hegarty, Marty 0-8hea, Art least 10 bicycles have been stolen feet prefabricated metal struc-''We lost no bikes last year," ac­
from the same rack since the missioners would be required to fill Derse, Mike Schnaus, Bob Howl,
tures. The large number of sheds. cording to Pears. "We ·bought
beginning of the semester. out a request form and have it Frank Flanagan and Pat Burke.
needed and their unsightly ap-insurance to cover the bicycles pearance are disadvantages. with the money charged for 
In fact, bicycle thefts have more "We need good student storage."
a run than tripled in the last three years 
according to campus security bi~ycle registra~ion_ procedure,'' -·······································································-·.-.;.....
said Pears. "Chns Smgleton ran a !1!-··············~··-~·~···························~·'···~·~·~·'·'·'·'·'·'·'·'··'!l'j
figures. In 1970, 94 biles were 
. :::: :::::
*~* 

reported stolen. The figure rose to 
178 in 1970 to 295 in 1972 and 290 in 
1973. Open House l~l~ sHoE sHoP ~lll 
"It's impossible for security to watch every rack," said Arthur 
delayed I BENEATH BADIN I
Pears, director of campus 
security. "The majority of 
students are doing a good job ~~~~ COMPLETE SELEcTION OF~~~~ 
The Placement Bureau has
securing their bicycles. It is our :~:~ TOP BRAND FOOTWEAR ::~:~
delayed its Open House untiljob to set up a deterrent." 
KNAPP SHOES 

Wednesday. The sign-up period for Pear said guards make periodic the first week of interviews has
checks of all bicycle racks. An LEATHER AND
also been delayed until Wed­estimated 40 unlocked bikes have nesday. ZIPPER REPAIR
been brought in to the security office as a result of these checks. In addition, a few juveniles with Placement Director Richard 
ACCESSORIES
bold cutters have been ap­Willemin explained that the Open 
prehended. House and the sign-up period have 
What can students do? been delayed because the new Registering bikes with campus placement office has not been QUICK SERVICE security is the first step suggested completed. 
REASONABLE

by Pears. For a dollar, students "All the moving hasn't been OPEN 8-6 MON-FRIreceive a four year registration in 
Computer Guard, a nationwide complete_d," said Wille~in, 9-4 SAT 
"We've _still got a lot of sortmg out 
safeguard system. PH 283-1144 
to do."
When a theft is made of a 
Tutors begin raffle in fund raising effort 
by Ken Girouard Staff Reporter 
A fund-raising raffle starts today here on the Notre Dame campus. The Neighborhood Study Help Program is sponsoring the raffle in order to make money to cover their operating expenses for the coming year. 
First prize in the raffle is a Motorola color television. 
The runner-up will receive a pocket calculator. Chances for these prizes will be sold at both dining halls and during home football games, with the drawing taking place on November 16th. The cost of these chances one dollar. 
The function of the Neighborhood Study Help Program is to tutor the grade school children of South Bend. The organization operates 13 centers throughout the city, with 500 Notre Dame students donating their time. 
The organization needs the money in order to transport the tutors to and from. the various schools where the student centers are located. Until this year the tutoring program was funded by the Title One Program, a federal program that aids poor neigh­borhoods. Government aid has been cut off and now the tutors are on their own. 
Tim Meinkin, chairman of the raffle, said, "This is the only way we're getting our money this year. We have 550 tutors to take care of." The goal for the raffle is $5000. 
the observer Monday, September 23, 1974 
Rockefeller reveals family wealth 
Ry CLAY F. RICHARDS 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -Nel­son A. Rockefeller revealed today that his family controls more than $325 million in oil stocks, and volunteered to put his own holdings in blind trust if he is confirmed as the 41st Vice President of the United States. 
In a statement prepared for the opening of Senate Rules Committee hearings on his nomination, Rockefeller made public a number of fascinating long-secret details of his family's vast wealth but only hinted at the true magnitude of the Rockefeller empire. 
Rockefeller, who said he has paid nearly $70 million in taxes during his lifetime, put his personal fortune at $178.5 million, the largest part of it in 
two father.  trusts  left him  by  his  
He  said  he  would  put  the  

trusts, and his own securities worth about $13 million, into a blind trust "for the duration ­should Congress request.'' 
While not detailing the full amount of the Rockefeller family fortune, he said that the descendants of John D. Rock­efeller Jr., his father, own or have in trusts oil company stocks totaling $326.7 million, based on their value last Friday. 
He pointed out that in no case did this constitute more than two per cent of the stock in any one oil company, debunking the myth that the Rockefellers still own Standard Oil, the origin of the family fortune. 
The Rockefeller hearings are expected to continue into next week, and the full Senate is expected to vote on his nomination before the Oct. 11 adjournment date. The House is not scheduled to take up the nomination until after election day. 
Senate Rules chairman How­ard Cannon, D-Nev., said Sunday the panel must consider a potential conflict of interest raised by Rockefeller's "im­mense" financial holdings. He said however, he did not believe it would be practical to require that Rockefeller put his holdings in trust because it would be "impossible" to insulate him completely from such vast holdings. 
In the candid, and frequently highly personal 72 page state­ment, Rockefeller detailed the history of the Rockefeller family, his own "strict" Baptist upbringing, how his grandfa­ther and father together gave away more than $1 billion, and a biography of his own public and business life. 
The statement included such diverse items as a letter from his mother, the late Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, warning her sons against racial prejudi­ce, and the revelation that he paid no federal income taxes in 1970 because he was forced to pay $7 million in capital gains taxes that year. 
His average annual income taxes for each of the past 10 years was about $2 million. 
A long section on his 15-year record as governor of New York State included 10 pages of his "accomplishments" and a list of five events "that I shall always deeply regret." 
Two were minor scandals in his administration that did not touch Rockefeller directly, and two were political disputes. 
"The most agonizing of all related to the events at tne Attica prison uprising that led to the loss of 43 lives," 
Rockefeller said. 
Rockefeller detailed his life­long interest in Latin American affairs, his service in the federal government in the administrations of Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman and Dwight Eisenhower, and his family activities, including helping start Rockefeller Center in New York City and his role in helping his mother found the Museum of Modern Art in New York. 

· 
But the most interesting was the financial data -.....eharts of 10 years of his earnings and taxes, detailed lists of his stock holdings, and an explanation of how his financial affairs are arranged. 
It showed that each of three generations of Rockefellers have amassed fortunes of $1 billion, given away half in philanthropic endeavors, paid considerable taxes and then rebuilt fortunes to the $1 billion figure. 
-John D. Rockefeller Sr., gave away $550 million, left his son $465 million, paid $67 million in taxes (before the days of income taxes) for a total fortune of $1.08 billion. 
-John D. Rockefeller Jr., gave away $552 million, gave his descendants $240 million, his second wife Martha Baird $72 million, and paid taxes of $317 million, for a total fortune of $1.18 billion. 
-Nelson A. Rockefeller has given away $33 million, has a current net worth of $62.5 million <of which $20.5 will be given away at his death), has trusts of $116 million which will go to his children, paid taxes of $69 million, has trusts for his children of $15.5 million for a total fortune of $296 million. If this figure is matched by the 

Length ofstay indefinite 
Nixon to enter hospital 
SAN CLEMENTE, Calif. <UPI l -Former President Richard Nixon spent a quiet day Sunday on the eve of hospitalization whose duration may be tested by court orders to appear the Watergate coverup trial scheduled to begin Oct. I. 
A 10-room section was sealed off the sixth floor of Long Beach Memorial Hospital, two for use by Nixon and his family and the remainder set aside for the Secret Service and other use. 
The length of Nixon's stay was indefinite. One hospital official said Saturday it would be at least three days. 
The former Chief Executive is to undergo tests and received treatment for phlebitis, painful blood clots in his left leg which 
Susann dies of cancer 
by Karen Oliver 
New York UPI -Author Jacqueline Susann, whose novel "Valley of the Dolls" about high­flying sex and drugs among Hollywood's rich and famous sold a record breaking 17 million copies, died Saturday night after a 12 year struggle against cancer. She was 53. 
Miss Susann symbolized the relaxation of American inhibitions in the 1960's with her intimate novels of sexual abandon. That she had cancer had been a closely guarded family secret. A luxurious and seductive looking woman, she gave no outward sign that her days were numbered. 
Miss Susann, married to television and motion picture producer Irving Mansfield for 30 years, succumbed at about 8 p.m. EDT, following a struggle against the disease which began in 1962. 
Miss Susann won international 
fame with "Valle~" published 
in 1966. A spokesman for Bantam 
Books, which published all thr_e~ of 
Miss Susann's novels said 7 million 
copies of "Valley" were sold in the 
U.S. and another 10 million worldwide. 
Her second novel, "The Love Machine," published three years later, became an immediate best seller and held that position for five months. 
When her third and last novel, "Once is Not Enough," was published in March 1973, it, too, rocketed to the top of the best seller's list and established Miss Susann as the first author in history to have three consecutive No. 1 best sellers on the New York Times list. 
However, family friends said Miss Susann's favorite book was a work of non-fiction, "Every Night, 
. Josephine," about her husband and their poodle, Josephine. 
"Every Night, Josephine" is estimated to have sold more than two million copies and Bandom Books said it was one of the first three books to be ordered by the People's Republic of China last September. 
Bantam Books president Oscar Dyspel estimated the books 
·grossed many millions -well beyond $60 million gross. More than 50 million copies of the books have been sold worldwide and they 
<continued on page 7) 
have worsened since his resig­nation Aug. 9 and subsequent seclusion at his San Clemente estate. 
Dr. John Lungren, former chief of staff at Memorial, was the doctor in charge of the former President's treatment. 
Lungren was scheduled to hold a new" conference Monday morning shortly after Nixon enters the hospital. He will also issue daily medical bulletins. 
It was anticipated that Lungren would give a prognosis of Nixon's case and possibly some indication of the length and type of treatment, includ­ing the use of coagulants to disperse the blood clots. 
Nixon has been served with two subpoenas ordering him to be on hand as a witness at the opening of the trial a week from Tuesday of John Ehrlich­man, H. R. Haldeman, John Mitchell, and three other 
<continued on page 7) 

Kennedy to declare his definite plcms 
BOSTON <UPI) Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass, has scheduled a news confer­ence for Monday that he said • would concern his political future. 
Kennedy, the front-running Democrat in voter polls rating possible 1976 presidential can­didates, said last week during a midwestern trip he would announce shortly whether he would seek the presidency and that when he did he would explain his reasons for the decision. 

The Monday conference was scheduled in a downtown hotel here. 
other Rockefeller brothers, the family worth is well over $1 billion. 
Rockefeller's largest asset is two trusts left by his father worth $116 million. They are composed heavily of state and municipal bonds, plus common stocks including $20 miJJion in Realty Growth Investers Beneficial, $15 million in IBM and $25 million in Rockefeller Center stock. 
His personal stock holdings outside the trusts total $13 million. He has estimated the value of his art collection at $33 million and his real estate at $11 million. Like most Ameri­
cans  Rockefeller  is  in  debt  - 
more  than  $1.5  million  in  notes  
payable.  

Rockefeller said that more than half the real estate and art holdings are pledged to the public after his death. 
He said that by putting all his stock in blind trust "the only remaining assets which I would then have under my control would be real estate in this country and art." 

Becky Bracken displays one of the many contributions needed to send the cheerleaders to away football games. The cheerleaders are not funded by any school organizations. Instead they must engage In assorted fund raising activities, such as selling bumper stickers, to be financially capable of raising Irish spirits at away games. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WE!JCS OF SEPI'KMBER 23 and OCTOBER 1 
Interviews are for seniors and grad students. Sign up schedules are in Rm. 213, Main Bldg. Interview times must be signed for in person. Law School sign ups are at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Boards 
in O'Shaughness Hall. The sign-up period for the first week of interviews at the Bureau will be from 1:30 to 4:40p.m Mon-Thurs., Sept 23-26. Inall subsequent weeks the sign up period will be 8:00am to 5:00pm Mon-thurs. 
SEPT, 27 St, Louie Univeraity. School of Lav, 
FRI. All majora. Dickinson School of Lav. STUDENTS MUST BE All IUjora, REGISTERED WITH THE 
OCT, l Continental Can CC!!!pA!!Y. PLACEMENT BUREAU. 
Tuea. B in Mgt and Acct. Electronic Data Syatema. BH in all disciplinea. 
OCT.l 2 American General Life Inaurance Co. Tuea Wed. B in AL. BH in BA. 
OCT.2 CPC International Inc. 
Wed, B in ChE, HE, Chem, Fluor Pioneer Inc, BH in HE and !E, 8HD in CE. Tulane Univ. Graduate School of Bua. Ad. 
f&r.2/3 American Hospital Supply Corp,WeCilTiiUre • All di1cipline1 in AL, BA and SC, (December graduatea only) 
OCT.3 

Thur1, Wil1on & Co,, Inc, B in Acet, Fin, Mgt, Biol, Chem, Hicrobiol, HE, HEIO. 
OCT.4 Argonne National Laboratory.
rrr:-Ph.D in ChE, EE, HE, HENO. Union Camp Paper Corporation. D in Phys, Anal and Org. Chem. HD in ChE, 
Employer Information. Alternativea. Teaching. Summer. Action/Peace Corpa/Viata. Federal Service. Room 213, Administration Bldg. 9/19/74 
Third ina series 
SMC Ministry holds open house 
By Annette Buzinski Staff Reporter 
The St. Mary's department of Campus Ministry held an open house in Holy Cross Hall last Friday. This open house was the third in a series to be held on 
'Wednesdays and Fridays until all the halls nave been reached. 
The first meeting took place in the Saint Mary's day lounge and included off campus students. McCandless Hall housed theirs on Sept 11, Regina's will be Sep­tember 25 and LeMans the following Friday. Each resident hall is in charge of·planning its own open house. 
According to Sr. Pat Koehler, 
director of Campus Ministry, the 
purpose of the Open House is to 
familiarize students with the ac­
tivities of Campus Ministry. 
Campus Ministry is planning many programs this semester. 
One of the programs Campus Ministry is planning this semester is a Workshop held in August Hall, Thursday's at 9 p.m. "A less formal experience in liturgical prayer and just social talk among people interested in that thing" highlights the evening, stated Koehler. 
Beginning September 17, a weekly forum on the what and why of Catholic Belief will be conducted by Fr. Tad Guzie, a Jesuit priest who is studying at Notre Dame and helping with the Saint Mary's Cam!JUS Ministry. The purpose of this meeting is to answer any questions students have in relation to their religion. Koehler notes that it is open to any interested Notre Dame students as well as Saint Mary's. 
A third· program sponsored by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry is a 
Fifi wrecks Honduras 
(Editors: UPI correspondent Jonathan Roussel, a private pilot. flew over Choloma, Honduras, the city hardest hit by Hurricane Fifi. This is his eyewitness report.>
By JONATHAN ROUSSEL 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras (UPI) Four days ago Choloma was a thriving farm town of 12,000 inhabitants. Today it is buried in 12 feet of mud. 
From the air, rescuers in red and white Red Cross vests can be seen crawling like ants among protruding roofs and treetops, extracting bodies and sometimes a living survivor. 
Outside the town, smoke rises 
from the funeral pyres. The 
decomposed bodies are burned 
en masse. 
An estimated 2,700 bodies 
have been burned. Only 140 
were identified. The figures are 
official. 
The mud covers roughly a 
full square mile. . 
Entire automobiles, pteces of 
utility poles, and roots of giant 
trees protrude from the mud, 
where they were swept by the 
tide of water and earth 
Thursday. Red Cross trucks are 
parked on high ground at the 
edge of the disaster area. 
Footprints in the mud show 
there were some survivors. 
T climbed to rooftops or 
the mud on top of what had 
been their town.  
Authorities  warned  Choloma  
that  Hurricane  Fifi  was  co­ 
ming.  

A few wealthy inhabitants, living on the bluffs several blocks back from the Choloma River bank, did not suffer. Many living in the low bottomlands sector of town fled to the mountains. 
Those who remained were mostly the poor who had no transportation, no place to go. Some others refused to leave. They didn't believe the hurri­cane would be so severe as the advance warning indicated. 
The Choloma river flows through the middle of town. At the height of the hurricane, landslides and broken trees blocked the river canyon above town, forming a natural dike. Then the dike burst, suddenly swamping Choloma with mil­lions of tons of mud and water without warning in the middle of the night 
Choloma is about 12 miles north of San Pedro Sula, Honduras' second largest city, and about 110 miles northwest of the capital of Tegucigalpa. 
It looks like an impossible task to remove all the mud. No one may ever know how many persons were buried under­neath. 
liturgical _ practice Sunday mornings before the 11 a.m. Mass. Pat Pritchard, a liturgy specialist at Brendelin High School in Niles, Michigan, will assist the students doing readings at Mass or singing to understand the text and share ideas. Koehler states that "any Notre Dame men interested in singing in this are welcomed to come over when they want to do church music." 
Weekend retreats both on campus and off campus are in the plannin~. Campus Ministry is also working toward a faculty recollection retreat 
A pre-marriage program is offered throughout the year for any interested engaged couples. 
Fr. John Maguire holds a prayer meeting on Mondays at 10 p.m. This also is open to anyone. 
Among other plans in the making is the renovation of the Holy Cross Chapel,. Campus Ministry hoJ>('s to take all furnishings away around the altar. Any extra tables will also be removed. The floor will be carpeted in warm colors after taking out all kneelers. If possible, drapes will also be in­stalled. Campus Ministry is recruiting girls do wall decorations. 
Campus Ministry plans to kick off a fund raising program next week to help the starving people throughout the world. The money collected will be forwarded to organizations which students picked out such as Care and the Pishops Relief Fund. Saint Mary's l>rofessor Rita Cassidy spoke at all Sunday Masses yesterday about the need for our support. Every Sunday, a basket will be placed on 
a table and all donations can be dropped into it. 

DEAR STUDENTS, 
YES, THE "NEW" TREND ... OR "CRAZE" ...IS SWEEPING THE COUNTRY. AND ALL THE MAJOR UNIVERSITIES ARE LEARNING "TOUCH DANCING" ........ THEY ARE NOW "TRIPPING THE LIGHT FANTASTIC ....... "TOGETHER......OR.... "DANCING TOGETHER AGAIN"! REALLY .... THERE ARE ONLY .TWO WAYS TO DAN­CE .... EITHER TOGETHER ... OR.... APART! RIGHT? 
HOWEVER, YOU WILL BECOME MORE AND MORE AWARE, AS Y.OU PROGRESS OUT INTO THE BUSINESS AND SOCIAL WORLD, OF THE FACT THAT MANY PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY IN THE UPPER SOCIAL STRATA, HAVE ALWAYS "DANCED TOGETHER ". 
OF COURSE YOU KNOW OUR NEW "FIRST LADY" TAUGHT DANCING WHILE "CHARLES" WAS HER "STEADY". THEREFORE, MOST OF THE SOCIAL FUNC­TIONS IN THE WHITE HOUSE WILL INCLUDE DANCING. AND OUR LARGEST STUDIO, GROSS-WISE, OF THE 468 ARTHUR MURRAY EMPIRE, IS WASHINGTON, 
D.C. BECAUSE THE CONGRESSMEN, SENATORS, AND THEIR WIVES SOON REALIZE THAT THE VOGUE IS COCK-TAIL...DANCING......OR DINNER-DANCING. 
SO YOU LEARN NOW.... WHILE YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY. FRAN DEMARKO, YOUR TRAINER ... TRAINED TI:IE TEACHERS FOR ARTHUR MURRAY ....CHICAGO FOR 
12 YEARS. CHICAGO IS THE SECOND LARGEST STUDIO IN THE NATION. SO SHE COMES TO NOTRE DAME .... HIGHLY QUALIFIED. SHE DANCED PROFESSIONALLY .... ALSO.... FOR EIGHT YEARS. 
so 

NOW IS THE TIME TO LEARN TO DANCE AND AS YOU DANCE....YOU MAY FIND ROMANCE IT'S EASY IT'S THRILLING IT'S REALLY GROOVY IN FACT ... EACH LESSON COSTS LESS THAN THE PRICE OF A MOVIE 
$2 
EACH LESSON 
YOU PAY AS YOU GO 
WE'VE PLANNED IT THIS WAY 

SO YOU CAN 'MUSTER THE DOUGH' 
YOU'LL LEARN 

THE FOX TROT ... THE WALTZ...AND 
ROCK N' ROLL 

WITH POLKA ... RHUMBA...AND CHA CHA AS 
YOUR. .."GOAL" 

THE LESSONS WILL BE HELD EACH MON.... IT "SEVEN" 
WITH MORE EVENINGS ADDED ...IF YOU THINK IT IS "HEAvEN" 
YOUR TRAINER ... FRAN DEMARKO 
THE Fll'{EST IN THE MIDWEST 

BUT THEN IT'S THE SAME OLD STORY 
NOTRE DAME ALWAYS GETS THE BEST 

the observer Monday, September 23, 1974 
----------~~------~-­
Actor Brennan dead at age 80 
LOS ANGELES <UPI) --Veteran character actor Walter Brennan, winner of three Academy Awards, died Saturday. He was 80. 
Brennan died at St. John's Hospital in Oxnard, Calif., where he was undergoing treatment for emphysema. His death came at 
6:30 p.m. EST, according to a 
hospital spokesman. He had been hospitalized since July 25. 
Brennan made a career of playing irascible old men with hearts of gold, collecting three Academy Awards along the way. 
He appeared in more than 100 motion pictures and four television 
Groups to lobbi'U' for 
Z 
, .,""""onditl• onal amnesty
W.&.IIV 
TORONTO <UPI) _ American groups working for unconditional amnesty for Vietnam War resisters will take their case to the
public with intensive congressional 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Erratwn 
In Friday's Observer, the St. Mary's-Notre Dame fencing team was mistakenly referred to as simply the St. Mary's fencing team. 
series throughout his long career. 
He was a wealthy man who refused to discuss finances and was an avid political activist for conservative politicians and causes. 
In acting, raising cattle on his Oregon ranch, tending his citrus crop in Southern California or in politics, Brennan kept busy, saying: "I'll never retire. That's just sitting around waiting for the undertaker." 

The lanky, story-spinning actor began his career tramping from studio to studio with Gary Cooper. But his formal training was in engineering at Rindge Technical 
lobbying advertising campaigns : Q Brennan to~red the East adn possible mass demonstrations • : Coast for two years m comedy and a spokesman or the groups said : . . . • vaudeville. 
• Nigh,t Ed•.tor -R1ck. Blower •. His career. was I.·nterrup.ted by aSunaay. 
"We're going to try to per-:Ass t ~lght Editor -A n d Y• thr~e-year hitch m the mfant~ysonalize the issue for Americans, •Prascha . . : durmg World War I. Part of his most of whom think Pre·sident :Layout -Kat~y Skiba, Sue Zwick, • duty was served in France where 
Ford's earned entry plan is •Martha Fannmg • he was wounded. some sort ot compromise " • Copuy Editor -Bob Quakenbush: Brennan came to Hollywood in aid Irma Zigas of the Nationai :Day Editor -Ken Girouard • -1922 where he became friends with C "I for Universal and Un-• Sports -Greg Corgan, Bill Delaney • Cooper who also just was begin-c~~~ftiional Amnesty. : Ty~ist~ -Barb Norcross, D. Roos,: ning his acting yursuits. 
, · . eNe1l V1ll • Brennan's first break came But they haven t been mv.ol~ed, : Compugraphhic Operator -Bob: when producer Sam Goldwyn 
:••••••••••••••••••••••• School, Cambridge, Mass.

• 
: Brennan was born in Lynn,

• 
the •Mass., in 1894 



: : He appeared in several plays• •and musicals while attending 
: bs : Rindge, and after graduation
er'Ver •young 

11111111111111111111118111111UI._.HIIIIIIIIIIIIIII amnesty in the United States =•••••••••••••••••• • • ••: 
enoug~ to unders~an~, that It Isn t • Steinmetz : anvthmg of the. kmd. • Picture Screener -Albert D'An-•
NCUUA IS an umbrella •t · 
. . . • omo • 
orgamzatwn of 50 groups workmg • Night controller _ David Rust •
for a universal and unconditional • • signed him for a role in "The Wedding Night." His performance 
. · 
won him a 10-year contract with 
th f d d 

e arne pro ucer · . He went on to play outstandmg 

DON'T MISS THIS SALE!! 
Come early for best selection! 
roles in "The Texan " "Meet John Doe " "Sergeant y'ork " "Pride of the Yankees," "Stanley and Livingstone," "Banjo on My Knee" and "Northwest Passage." 
When Brennan went on to character roles he won three Academy Awards for best sup­porting actor: "Come and Get It" (1936), "Kentucky" (1938), and "The Westerner" 0940). He was the first performer to win three Oscars. 

Fran DeMarko Says: 
"IF YOUHAVE rnoLEFT f'££1:. 

YCXJALWAYS 
HAVE A so-so CHJWCE a BEING RIGHI'"! 
so 

"USE THIS FOOT TO GET YOU IN FIRST LESSON" . (ONLY) (CLIP THIS 12" AD AND PRESENT TO CASHIER AT 
FOOT OF STAIRS) 

at LAFORTUNE 
BALLROOM 
MONDAY EVE 7 PM SHARP!! SEPT. 23, 1974 
<AND EACH MON. EVE 
THEREAFTER) FACULTY ... STAFF STUDENTS ... FRIENDS ... 
COME ALONE ... GROUP .. 
DATE CHANGE PARTNERS EVERY MINUTE ALL EVE! 
$2 FOR LESSON WITHOUT THIS AD FOR 
FUN HOBBY EXERCISE RELAXATION POPULARITY 

NEW FRIENDS CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ROMANCE 
Fran Says: 

"LEARN THE VERY NEW CONTACT ROCK 'N' ROLL AND MANY 
OTHER TOUCH DANCES' 
NO APPONTJ\AE 
GET STARTED THIS MO\IDAY 
7 PMS~P! 
ALWAYS A BEGINNER'S LESSON 




Monday, September 23, 1974 the observer 7 .• 


Author Susann dies at 53 
(continued from page 4) record 1.5 million and "Valley " , spent her last working months 
have been· translated into 18 earned $23 million domestically for languages." 20th Century Fox. 
"Once is Not Enough" has sold The film version of "Once in Not over 2 million copies since it was Enough" was scheduled for published last year, Dyspel said, release in the spring. adding that a serialization of the Earlier this year, Miss Susann book started Sunda~ in Quick published a novella. "Dolores," in Magazine, published in Germany. the Ladies Home Journal and that 
All three novels have been issue brought the magazine its adapted to motion pictures. largest newstand sales in its Dyspel said "Love Machine" was history. sold to Columbia Pictures for a A spokesman said Miss Susann 
Nixons health .mayjeopardize subpoenas 
(continued from page 4) former aides. 
expected to fly here this week One was issued by special to join in consultation on the prosecutor Leon Jaworski, call­treatment.
ing for Nixon's appearance, as They reported that the the star prosecution witness. original blood clot in the lower Jaworski subsequently asked left leg was still present and 
U.S. District Court Judge John that a second clot had formed 
Sirica to appoint a team of in the same leg above the knee,medical experts to examine causing pain and posing the 
Nixon and .see if he is too sick possibility of serious complica­to testify. Sirica has yet to rule tions if the clot should break on the motion. and pieces course through the 
A second subpoena was arteries. served on behalf of Ehrlich­An attempt was made in vain man, calling for Nixon's ap­at the time to pursuade Nixon 
pearance in Washington as a to enter the hospital for defense witness. treaatment. Tkach quoted him 
Nixon's affliction with the as saying, "If I go into a phlebitis -condition was first hospital, I will never come out 
made public during his over­alive." seas trips to the Middle East The , section· allocated to and the Soviet Union when he 
Nixon is on the new "medical­was seen to limp noticeably. surgical" floor of the hospital.
The former president was 
examined about 10 days ago by Lungren and Dr. Walter Tkach, his personal physician in the White House. Tkach was 
DAILY CROSSWQPD PUZZLE 
Copr. '74 Geo"l Fearur., !:...p.
Mony Present 
50 Phone user 13 Entrance way 52 En-hl.i 18 Decline 53 Cruces or 23 Viands: Slang 
Palmas 25 Trimmed a oake 54 Outlet 26 Verbal goof 55 Start of Ed-~ 28 Lace edging 
ward VIII's fare-29 Wagon well broadcast, 80 Mens -in 1936: Phrase corpore sano 
58 Nota -31 Cheerful 59 Greek letters 32 First~rate: 60 Merchant guild Colloq. 61 Consumer 33 Best part of a 62 Class or sort joke 63 Commotions: 34 Hindu 
Colloq. gentlemen 37 Draw out 
DOWN 38 Algerian port 1 To this point 40 S. African fox 2 Previously: Dial.41 Loaded (with) 3 Wind storms 43 Out of-(on 4 Building wing the blink) 5 Plodded through 44 Golf club 
mire 46 Pronoun 6 Expenses 47 Pituitary 7 Burden 48 Rope for a round­8 -on parle up 
Francais 49 -Park, 9 Prepared a sign Colorado 10 Sound of a flute 50 Philippine island 11 -of (by 51 Fells authority of) : 52 Paper or hair
Phrase 56 Poetic possessive 12 Suffix expressing 57 Southeastern smallness Asian 
writing notes for a new novel and a sequel to "Every Night, Josephine" which she had ten­tatively entitled "Good Night, Sweet Princess." 
Miss Susann came to New York to become an actress after graduating from high school in Philadelphia. She appeared in 21 plays in New York and on the road including "Banjo Eyes," "Jack­pot," and the road versions of "The Animal Kingdom" and "Watch on the Rhine," 
As a television actress in the 1950's , Miss Susann appeared in many popular dramatic programs, game shows and hosted interview shows. 
Miss Susann returned to the stage in 1970 to appear in an off­Broadway production of "The Mad-Woman of Chaillot," She also made appearances on the WCBS­television "Mannix" series. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
1968 GTO, good condition, asking $900. Call Bill, 289-9576. 
Two Presley bleacher seats. Best offer. 277-0014 after 7 pm. 
1970 Chevy stationwagon, low milage, good condition, good on gas. $995. Cali 272-8246 weekdays after 5:30 pm. 
FOR RENT 
1 or 2 singles off campus. 1021 Demaude Ave. $55 per mo total. 1 block from grocery, laundry, bakery. Call 232-2773. 
NOTICES 
TICKETS FOR THE LYNYRD SKYNYRD-HYDRA CONCERT OCTOBER 1 AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
MECHA meeting -9:30pm, Tues. Sept 24. Basement of LaFortune. All members attend! 
If you have love to give and need extra money -S. Bend Nursing Home has openings for part time aides and orderlies. 11:00 pm to 7:30am three nights per week. 232­4486 for interview or stop at s. Bend Nursing Home, 328 Notre Dame. 
SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE FROM 12:15-5:00 MWF and 11:00 -1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TTH. 
Money? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement. of LaFor­tune, daily, 11:15-12:15. 
TALISMAN  NOW  AVAILABLE  
FOR  DANCES,  CONCERTS,  
PARTIES,  AND  PRE-GAME  

PERFORMANCES. FOR IN· FORMATION, CALL 272-9895. 
WANTED 
Need 2 GA tix for Purdue, Rice. Call Sue, 7837. 
Need from 1 to 10 tickets to the Purdue game. Call Joe at 289-3751. 
Need ride to Chicago. Preferably O'Hare. Thursday, Sept 26. Fitz, 287-3463. 
Need Riders to St. Louis or Kansas City. Leaving Thurs. Call Paul, 
8854. 
Urgently need 6 Purdue tickets. Call Tom, 288-7637. 
Desperately need 2 Presley con­cert tickets. Willing to pay well. 
Need 1 Purdue GA or student tix. Will pay good price. Call Frank, 1015. 

CBSERVER ADS get results !!! 
Needed desperately, l GA ticket to Rice game. Tom, 8398. 
Need desperately GA Pitt tickets. Please call Monica, 4489. 
Need 1 student of GA ticket for Purdue. Desperate. Will pay S. Call Paul, 3178. 
Help wanted: construction laborers. $2.50 hr. min. 8 . 5 Mon. Sat. Parttime or fulltime. Apply in person. Fat Wally's Electric Beer Joint, 2046 S. Bend Ave. 
Needed: 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Call Marianne, 5247. 
Need tix for Elvis. Call Ellen, 4720. 
Need 2 GA tix for any home game in Oct. Call Ellen, 4720. 
Desperately need two GA tix for Purdue. Call Trace, 234-1889. 
Need 2 GA Purdue tix. Call Bill, 8687. 
Need 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call Bob, 234-1889. 
Need 6 GA Purdue tix. Will pay $. Call Mr. Heekin, 277-0067. 
Need 1 Rice ticket. Will pay$. Call Scott, 1205. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found keys near Engineering bldg. 289-3369. 
Lost: woman's silver wristwatch Saturday night in the vicinity of Flanner Hall. Reward. Call 4238. 
Lost: Schwinn 10-speed. Reward if found. Call 1694. 
Lost: 1 gold-filled Cross pen on shuttle bus Fri evening, Sept 13. Has name engraved on barrel. Reward. John, 3540. 
PERSONALS Yea, Schmuck, matchbook covers are real interesting!!! 
Tha~ks to whoever returned my purse. Therese Pacholke 
Scptt K. Demand for you exceeds supply. Typical female logician. 
Will J. O'Reilly report to the field and support the team. 1E will win with a bang. The Gang 
Greg, BIRTHY HAPDAY! "if it wasn't so overused 1 would say mellow -'live' sounds like a 
good word..." 
Bob, "Don't ya worry 'bout a thing ..." Lindsay & Mary 
Wanted: 1 new surfboard for K.C. in Farley. Call 6723. 
Toad, D---B---M-BOZO 
60 

• 
ra zy Record 
ENDURANCE RUNNING: The 
longest non-stop run recorded is 
121 miles, 4-<10 yards, in 22 hours, 27 
minutes, by Jared R. Beads, 41, of 
Westport, Maryland, in October, 
1969; an average of over five miles . per hour. Source: Guiness' Book of World Records 

John Counsell, Class of '64 
61.~ 
~ 
pnme· 
Life insurance tailored to fit the unique needs of students and young professionals. 
For further information call: 
2 3 3-3 1 0 4 
IT'S GOODTO HAVE 
M0NY 
IN YOUR FUTURE 
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
The Mutual Life Insurance 
Company Of New York 
ACROSS 1 Wise ones 6 Wind about 
10 Fastened 
14 "This was the most unkindest cut -" 
15 Formerly 16 Aware of: Slang 17 Do as others 
have done 19 Actor Kruger20 Metric measure 21 Ship channels 22 Rope 24 Relinquishes 26 W. C. Handy's 
"-St. Blues" 27 Letter 28 Omens 31 Stared 34 Twining stems 35 Constellation 36 Clamorous 37 Stepped 38 Where Muscat is 39 Actress Blyth 40 Bower of vines 41 Norse goddess 42 Dresses up 
44 A Gershwin 45 Attenti'on­
getting sounds 46 Herd cattle 
--------------------·----­

8 
the observer· 
Second half fireworks spark Irish 
when six minutes into the second
By Greg ('organ Sports Editor  quarter Jim Blazevich kicked a 34­yard field goal. Those three points  
were the first points Northwestern  
Somebody should take pity on poor John Pont. Not only did his Northwestern Wildcats get beaten by Michigan State 41-7 last week, and not only do they travel to Lincoln, NPbraska to play the angry Cornhuskers next week. But sandwiched in between was a meeting with the number one team in the nation -­Notre Dame. Pont could find little solace in the fact that he expected to get beaten by 20 points because when the final figures were tallied he had indeed lost by 46. The 49-3 Irish victory was as overwhelming as the final score made it look. NO gathered 610 yarris total offense including 214 through the air. In contrast, Northwt•stern could manage a dismal 132 total offensive yards  has scored against Notre Dame in 12 straight quarters. Three minutes later, however, Bullock got even with a one-yard scoring dive topping a 54-yard march. That was actually all the Irish ever needed. The defense kept Anderson quiet with the help of an early Reggie Barnett interception, and Parseghian 's "young" defensive bakcfield played superbly. "I was really pleased with our secondary today," said Ara. "I can't tell you how worried I was before the game about Nor­thwestern's passing attack. We concentrated mostly this week on defense. This was the first time our young secondary has gone against a good passing attack, and based on my concern, I'm well  
•  and Mitch Anderson, who spent half the ball game picking himself up off the Tartan Turf, could  satisfied with the defensive secondary's performance." Unfortunately, Parseghian won't  
complete only seven of 22 passes for 57 yards. "We knew they had to throw," rxplained Mike Fanning, one member of Notre Dame's front four, "they couldn't establish a running game so we were just able to go in and overpower them." "We had a lot of different defenses," added Kevin Nosbusch, Fanning's cohort at right tackle, "and we had enough to cover them in every situation. We don't usually stunt or anything like that, we just play more of a 'go get 'em' type game." The Irish "0" didn't go get anybody until the second half. Despite some fine passing by quarterback Tom Clements and some stingy defense the Irish went into the locker'room at halftime leading only 14-3. ''At halftime," said Head Coach Ara Parseghian, whose victory Saturday tied him with Frank Leahy for second place in NO career wins (87), "I told the players about the turnovers, the bad punts, the penalties, and the bad field positon and urged !grinning> them to play better in the second half." Apparently a little urging was just what the Irish offense needed. Four plays and one minute and thirty-two seconds after the second half kickoff Ron Goodman took a handoff swept right behind two crushing blocks by Gerry DiNardo and AI Wujciak and galloped 62 yards for a score. Dave Reeve, who was seven of seven on con­version .attempts, added the extra point to put NO out in front 21-3.  Quarterback Tom Clements rolls "That long TO run by Goodman in the second half really turned things around for Notre Dame," said Pont. "They caught us in a veer and he was long gone." After that so were the Irish. Despite a momentary setback when a Clements pass was in­tercepted by NU's Steve Scardina, the offense rolled right along. A 1Q­play, 78-yard scoring drive, featuring some fine running by fullback Wayne Bullock and halfback Al Samuel, ended when Clements hit tight end Robin Weber with a 14-yard strike. Weber made a sparkling over-the­shoulder catch to give the Irish a 28-3 lead. Clements, who yielded to Frank Allocco later on, finished the day 13 of 23 for 182 yards, one touchdown, and two interceptions. "Our running game wasn't working well in the first half, that's why we were throwing more," said the senior from McKees Rocks, Pa. "We just kept coming back to what was successful, and in the first half it was the passing game. As long as he's (split end Pete Demmerle) open I'll keep throwing. I think I'm throwing a little better this year because I have more experience, my arm's a little stronger and I'm more confident." Demmerle agreed, "Tom's throwing with a little more zip, but I think a lot of that has to do with confidence. We're throwing more because our backfield is somewhat depleted and when Tom does throw  right and launches a pass-­he's sure of himself." The Irish made it 35-3 after two Clements to Demmerle passes and two Russ Kornman runs took the ball to the NU one. Allocco, on his third try, scampered around right end for the score. "I was going to score or die trying," he said later on. Mark McLane scored the sixth NO touchdown midway through the final period on a powerful 11­yard run, with Rick Slager directing the offense, freshman Terry Eurick made it 49-3 six minutes later on a two-yard plunge. They're· :Notre Dame) as good as they were last year," said a disconsolate Pont, "even though they are young at certain positions. They're lacking the type of speed they had last year at their halfback positions, but Clements really holds them together." But the Irish looked as if they might fall apart in the first half. Three fumbles and four dropped passes kept the point spread low at intermission. "Northwestern came out high in the first half," commented Ara. "I thought we were flat in the first half, but I'm not trying to take anything away from them. They played a good first half, and I thought they came back very well after last week's defeat." "We _played good ball in the first half," offered Pont. "But a body can only go so far and they keep coming and coming and  have too much time to be satisfied with anything. The Irish have now coming. It's hard to play 60 won 13 straighy ballgames, the minutes on emotion alone." longest winning streak of any Emotion was enough for a while. major college football te_am in the Kornman put NO out to a 7-0 lead nation. To get number 14, the Irish on a two-yard TO run capping a 76­will begin preparations today for yard, 14-play scoring march. The Saturday's home opener against Wildcats got their three points Purdue. Bill DelCiney==:=:=:=::::::::=========================================:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Extra Points With Notre Dame's 31-7 rout of Georgia Tech, Coach Ara Parseghian was very happywith his team's dominance over the Engineers. "I was very pleased with our performance," commented Ara. "And I do think we have the potential of being a good football team, but we still have a long way to go." The question of how far the Irish have come was exhibited in Satur­day's 49-3 win over the Wildcats of Northwestern. The Irish "D" limited Northwestern to a total of 132 yards, while the offense gained 610. "Going into our game with Northwestern , inexperience was our major worry, especially in our defensive backfield," noted Parseghian. "Going up against Anderson <the Wildcats' quarterback, who's led the Big 10 in passing for the past two seasons) gave the deep backs their crucial test of this young season." The problem of stopping Mitch Anderson was left up to Coaches Yonto, Kelly and Shoults of the defensive staff, and the statistics showed they were successful. Anderson was 7 of 22 for 57 yards, and the rushing game <what little there was) accounted for a meager 61 yards. "Anderson definitely was one of the best quarterbacks we'll face this season," said a jubilant Yonto after the game. "His release is one of the quickest we've seen, and his roll-out ability makes him an imposing target for our defense. Our preparation for Northwestern placed a premium on getting to Anderson before he could do anything to hurt us. Mike Fanning and Kevin Nosbusch of our front four shut off their running game, and made Northwestern throw constantly. Then it was the deep backs' turn to take over." Reggie Barnett, Randy Payne, John Dubenetsky and Randy Harrison  
have been playing as a defensive backfield unit for almost three weeks,  
and after two games, these backs have emerged with a maturity and confidence that should carry them for the entire season. "We were really up for this game, mainly because of Anderson's reputation," noted junior  
Randy Payne. "Reggie's interception (of Anderson's pass intended for split end Bill Stevens) gave us a lot of confidence, and Dub's play and Harrison's tips (he broke up two touchdown attempts by Anderson) really proved we are a solid group."  
Coach John Pont's Wildcats proved to be no match for these Irish, but  
as he put it, "It was fun for a while, but it's hard to play 60 minutes on  
emotion alone." Pont suited an amazing 101 players for the game, but even a group that large couldn't do a thing against the Irish. "Throw  
away the last three touchdowns, and we did put on a good defensive show," sighed the defeated coach. "We tried, but it just wasn't enough; Clements and his crew are just too tough."  
For the afternoon, Tom Clements was 13 for 23 for 182 yards passing, and rushed for 44 yards in eight carries. His passing game was marred  
by two interceptions, but overall, his play resembled the fine leadership and ability hP's displayed over the past two seasons. The passing com­ 
bination of Clements· to Pete Demmerle resulted in seven completions for 111 yards. "Demmerle gets open against everybody," noted Pont. "Pete is good, and it's difficult to get the pass rush you need against Notre  
Dame. We thought the turnovers would put us back into the ballgame, but their offense quickly put a stop to that." The Irish committed four turnovers iP the first half, with Russ Korn­ 
man fumbling twice, Ronnie Goodman bobbling a punt, and Clements throwing an interception on an attempted pass to Robin Weber. "We're  
not that kind of team to have committed so many turnovers," commented Parseghian. "The dropped passes, penalties and fumbles hurt us in our  
drives, and during the halftime, I told the players to play their own ballgame, and the final score reflects their determination."  
So after two games in the 1974 College Football Season, Notre Dame has  
outscored their opponents 80-10 and has gained 1042 total yards against  
--the recipient, tight end Robin We ber hauls it in over his shoulder for a t ouchdown.  306. Not bad for a team summer. Not bad at all.  that was considered washed up during the  


