On The Inside 
Burtchaell interview ...page 3 
Evel fails ...page 5 




s•rving the notre dome -st. mary's community 
Vol IX, No.8 Monday, September 9, 1974 

Nixon pardoned by Ford 
By Helen Thomas UPI White House Reporter 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -A prayerful President Ford Sunday granted Richard M. Nixon unconditional pardon for any Watergate offenses in order to "firmly shut and seal this book" for the nation and for Nixon himself. Stunned Congressmen expresssed both praise and outrage, and Nixon said he was grateful. 
The White House said Ford sweated out his decision alone over the past week without consulting Nixon, but the former President issued a statement within minutes, sorrowing over the "mistakes" he had made but conceding no criminal wrongdoing. 
Ford put forth his historic -and immediately con­troversial -decision by summoning newsmen to his Oval Office on Sunday morning and reading to them in solemn and somber tones from a long prepared statement. 
Official proclarmtion 
It took him more than 300 words to mention Nixon's name for the first time as he explained how he had agonized over what he was about to do. "I do believe the buck stops here", Ford said, and concluded with these words of official proclamation: 
"Now , therefore, I, Gerald Ford, president of the United States, pursuant to the pardon power conferred upon me by article II, section 2, of the Constitution, have granted and by these presents do grant a full, free and absolute pardon unto Richard Nixon for all the offenses against the United States which he, Richard Nixon has committed or may have committed during the period from January 20, 1969, through Aug. 9, 1974." 
Ford then rose from his desk and left the room. 

Nixon responds 
In San Clemente, Calif., where Nixon has lived in seclusion and pondered what the future might hold since he left office Aug. 9, the former President im­mediately issued his response. 
"One thing I. can see clearly now is that I was wrong in not acting more decisively and more forthrightly in dealing with Watergate, particularly when it reached the stage of judicial proceedings and grew from a political scandal into a national tragedy," he said in part. 
"No words can describe the depths of my regret and pain at the anguish my mistakes over Watergate have caused the nation and the presidency ... " 

Congress reacts 
In Congress, reaction split down party lines and many legislators were simply unprepared to express an opinion in the early hours after the announcement. 
Republicans like Sen. William R. Brock of Tennessee generally praised the act, reasoning, asBrock did, that Ford had "taken a tough road ... there are times when you have to make decisions." 
Vice President nominee Nelson Rockefeller also 
congratulated Ford for "an act of conscience, com­
passion and courage," but one Republican, Sen. Ed­ward Brooke of Massachusetts, said Ford had made "a serious mistake." 
The harshest words came from Rep. John Moss, D­Calif., who called it "an outrageous act," and one of the President's closest Congressional associates, who declined to be identified for publication, said "Ford knows full well that by doing this he's blown up his honeymoon (with Congress)." 

No strings attached 
There were no strings attached to Ford's pardon and White House spokesman Philip Buchen said Ford had also decided, upon the recommendation of Attorney General William B. Saxbe, that Nixon's White House tapes and documents will remain his personal property and will be destroyed upon Nixon's death or on Sept. 1, 1974, whichever comes sooner. 
Buchen said Nixon had agreed, powever to leave the materials in a federal depository in California for three years where they may be subpoenaed for legal 
processes.
Ford made clear he had acted both out of compassion for Nixon and fear that the nation would be torn apart by "ugly passions" if Nixon. were brought to trial. 
-He said Nixon had suffered "an American tragedy in which we have all played a part." "It can go on and on, and someone must write 'the end' to it. "I have concluded that only I can do that, and if I can, I must." 
Ford indicated Nixon's health was one factor, saying "serious allegations and accusations hang like a sword ... threatening his health as he tries to reshape his life ... " 
He also said there seemed no way Nixon could possibly get a fair trial in. the passionate setting. of t~e final Watergate prosecutions. scheduled to begm this fall and the aftermath of the resignation. 
"But it is not theultimate fate of Richard Nixon that most concerns me, though surely it deeply troubles every decent and every compassionate person," Ford said. 
"My concern is the immediate future of this great country.. .1 cannot prolong the "bad dreams" of Watergate." 

ter Horst resigns
White House press secretary 
J .F. ter Horst, President Ford's first appointee, S:.:11day became the first member of the administration to quit, saying he "couldn't in good conscience" sup­port Ford's pardon of former President Nixon. 
TerHorst, 52, a longtime friend of Ford, was on leav.e from his job as Washington bureau chief of the Detroit News and had been expected to keep the job as chief White House spokesman permanently. 
His resignation came hours after Ford's sudden Sunday morning announcement that Nixon would be pardoned in full for any crimes he may have com­mitted while president. 
TerHorst was the first person Ford appointed to his staff after Nixon announced his resignation one month ago. 
According to his aides, terHorst left the White House 
early Sunday evening "upset," according to his aides. 
TerHorst's wife, Louise, said from their Alexandria, 
Va., home that her husband went to bed early after 
working most of the night before but that he resigned 
solely because he could not support the full pardon for 
Nixon. 

"He realizes the President was acting in good con­, science, but my husband feels that he in turn is acting 
in good conscience in submitting his resignation," she 
said. 

Asked if there were any other factors, she replied: ·'I 
would say no. The fact that it was submitted today is 
quite significant. It's a moral judgment, that's 
precisely what it is." 

Tom DeCair, a terHorst assistant, also relayed an 
explanation of why the press secretary quit. 
"He couldn't in good conscience support the 
President's decision on former President Nixon even 
though he knew President Ford took that action in good 
conscience." 

"Mercy like justice, must be evenhanded," terHorst 
said. 


Couldn't sustain credibility 
"I knew my credibility as a White House spokesman 
would be difficult to sustain in the absence of a like 
decision to grant mercy to persons of lesser stations in 
life," terHorst said in reference to Nixon's former 
aides who are in prison or under indictment because of 
Watergate. 

"I do not doubt his motives at all," terHorst said of 
Ford. "I still have my conscience to live with." 
TerHorst said he did not use the threat of resignation 
to try to change Ford's mind regarding a pardon. 
"The President acted in good conscience and I also 
found it necessary to resign in good conscience," he 
said. 

TerHorst summoned his newly-organized staff in the 
late afternoon to inform them of his decision. 
Ford was apparently informed of the decision before 
leaving the White House Sunday about noon before he 
left to play 18 holes of golf at suburban Burning Tree 
Country Club. TerHorst was gone when Ford 
returned to the White House six and a half hours later. 

Ford regrets resignation 
Ford late Sunday said he understood terHorst's difference of opinion but that the decision was in the .best interest of the country. "1 deeply regret Jerry terHorst's resignation. I understand his position. I appreciate the fact that good people will differ with me on this very difficult decision. However, it is my judgment that it is in the best interest of our country. I think Jerry did an outstanding job in a controversial period of transition. I thank him for his services." 
TerHorst's deputy, John W. Hushen, took over as acting press secretary. Hushen previously served as press chief for Sen. Robert Griffin, R-Mich., and for the Justice Department. 
Voter drive poses legal hassles 
by Jim Eder 
Contributing Editor 

Student Body President Pat McLaughlin is making final preparations for the Indiana voter registration drive that will be conducted by Student Government this Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday (Sept. 10, 11 and 12) from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the lobby of LaFortune and from 5 to 6:30p.m. in the dining halls. 
McLaughlin , who was con­cerned about the legal implications of students registering to vote outside their home states, has conducted an extensive in­vestigation into the matter. 
The results of his inquiry have been compiled and will be available at the registration tables. The registrars, who are deputized Notre Dame students, will also be able to inform and advise students of the laws in their home states. 
"We have found that, with the exception of some complications concerning those students who receive financial aid from their home states, there should be no problems whatever," said McLaughlin. 
"Registering to vote in Indiana does not constitute establishing legal residency here. As long as the student remains a dependent of his parents, he shouldn't ex­perience any change in status in such matters as auto licensing and insurance," he noted. 
Explaining the results of his investigation into the respon­siblility of financial aid recipients, McLaughlin stated that 14 states "pose a definite problem." Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island are the only six states that allow their grants and scholarships to be used at out-of-state schools. "Students holding such stipends should not register to vote here," Me Laughlin warned. 
All the other 44 states do not allow students to use . their grants and schoiarships out-of-state, but do provide for loans to be used elsewhere. Eight of these states, according to McLaughlin, could possibly "cause trouble" for loan recipients who register to vote out­of-state, because their loans are a(l.rninistered by state agencies or the United Student Aid Fund, Inc. These states are Alaska, Arkan­sas, Delaware, Louisiana, Maryland, Nevada, Sou'th Carolina and Wisconsin. 
Five states have yet to be con­tacted by McLaughlin. They in­clude Georgia, New Hampshire, New York, Tennessee and Virginia. Information concerning the regulations in these states will be available by Tuesday. 
McLaughlin emphasized that at least 31 states offer no problems to students wishing to register to vote here. "Twenty-five of these states have federally administered financial aid programs," he ex­plained, "and the other six assured us that there would be no dif­ficulties." 
The purpose of the voter registration drive, according to McLaughlin, is to "give tm: r11utre 
Dame  students a political  
base  · for  a  successful  
. lobby  in  the  November  

elect10n for this district's seat in the Indiana House of Represen­tatives." 
(continued on page 2) 
-----------~-------~----­
Monday, September 9, 1974
the observer
2 


warld 
briefs 

ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. <UPI>-With an eye toward an eventual male birth control pill, a biochemist reported Sunday the development of a sugar-like drug which blocks the production of sperm in mice only while it is taken. 
MANILA <UP I> -A Filipino explorer has found a Japanes World War II holdout who had shed his soldier's uniform, married a nomadic tribal woman and now wears a g-string, the Bulletin newspaper reported Sunday. 
MOZAMBIQUE <UPil -Rebellious white settlers claimed vic­tory Sunday in a lightning-like revolt to prevent black guerrillas from taking political power in Mozambique but violence broke out in sea ttered areas of the former colony. 
ATHENS <UPil-A flaming Trans World Airlines jetliner with 88 persons aboard crashed into the Ionian Sea while trying for an emergency landing on the island of Corfu Sunday. Palestinian guerrillas said they bombed the plane. 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -Sen. William Proxmire, D-Wis., said Sunday Pan American Airways must either live or die in the free market system. He urged the Civil Aeronautics Board to reject the airlines request for a $10.2 million monthly subsidy. 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The lawyer who negotiated the agreement under which former President Nixon was allowed to retain control of his White House tapes is under federal in­vestigation for alleged tax evasion, the Washington Post said today. 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. <UPI> -Shirley Cothran of Fort Worth, Texas, described by her mother as "a good little church worker," launched her reign as Miss America 1975 Sunday by telling reporters she is a non-smoker, a non-drinker, and "very feminine, in my own way." 
CHAMPS, France <UPI> -The United States and five of the West's key industrial powers agreed Sunday to reduce dependence on oil as a source of energy and to work together to beat inflation and strengthen their economies. 
NICOSIA <UPil -Greek Cypriot guerrillas raided the, hometown of deposed President Archbishop Makarios early Sunday in an effort to beat back a movement to bring him back to Cyprus. 
WASHING'TON <UPil -President Ford's pardon of Richard ~ixon ma.y m~ke it more difficult for the government to prosecute SIX of Ntxon s former White House and campaign aides on Watergate cover-up charges, sources close to the case predicted
Sunday. 

N.D. JUNIOR aASS PRESENTS 
A MKE NICHOLS FILM 



CATCH 22 
Alan Arkin I Paula Prentiss ENGII\EERING AUDIT~IUM 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 13 & 14 
8:00 &10:00 

admssion $1.00 
:fit:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;;;;;;:;;;;;:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::;:;:;;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:~ 
Voting drive 

begins soon 
(continued from page I) 
The race between Republican incumbent Robert DuComb and Democrat insurgent Dick Bodine is predicted to be a very close one. "The people at the Democratic headquarters in town say that if we can register at least 1.000 voters, Notre Dame could swing the election one way or the other," said McLaughlin. "With this kind of political power we could ef­fectively confront the candidates with the issue of lowering the In­diana drinking age to 18," he ex­plained. 
"We have to be concerned with our own representative downstate before we can consider the others," noted McLaughlin, referring to the possiblility of the state legislature passing a bill to lower the drinking age this year. 
"If students are as concerned about alcohol guidelines on campus as they say they are, I expect to see them register to vote," he said. "Unless we have some political power, we can do nothing." 
The majority age in Indiana is 18 for everything except alcohol consumption. Anyone having reached this age and resided in the state for at least 60 days prior to the day of election is eligible to vote. The deadline for voter registration is September 21. Registering to vote in Indiana will automatically cancel registration in any other state. 
The Observer is publi5ht::t dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year> from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Ca II 288-8488 for time and directions 

·s Err E R r HAN 'M * A * s * H · 
·Roger Ebert, Sun-Times 
GEORGE SEGAL & ELLIOT GOULD 
•••being the story of two bet-on-anythlng guys 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION Presents 


CHICAGO WHITE SOX 
vs. 


CALIFORNIA ANGELS 
Sept. 1 5, 197 4 
Reserved Seats 
& 

Round Trip Bus 

$9.00 

Tickets Available At STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
& 


DINING HALLS 
*Buses will leave Circle 1O:OOA.M. 
Monday, September 9, 1974 
the observer 

3 
Burtchaell responds to questions
i, I 
by the University, it has never 
been rescinded. Do you see any 
reason there will be a change? 
A: I can't anticipate. People have not yet gone through this one. If it weren't necessary to live with a calendar, to judge it well,then we wouldn't be waiticg until next winter to reconsider it. 
Q: You said before that if 100 percent of the students would stay on campus instead of taking a break on their own--an unauthorized break--you would favor a calendar that started after 
Fr. Burtchaell: The calendar has
Labor Day and went back to a 
features about it that are
similar calendar two years ago 
disagreeable to everybody.
when there was no October break. 
So students are actually here forA: Then we'd have an honest nine week!;. Whereas if they werecalendar. I have no preferences to stay straight from a post-Laborwith regard to calendar. When we Day star1t until Thanksgiving,start and when we stop and how you're only talking about two extra many breaks we have is really weeks. Would you favor under any very unimportant to me per­circumstances instead of an Oc­sonally. I have no personal stake tober break an extendedin any calendar whatsoever. 
Thanksgiving break?
However, whoever makes the A: There is almost no supportcalendar has the responsibility to for that. I don't care when it create one that is honest. And it is comes. The question is whensimply not honest to say one wants would it best come? And the to start school late and thzn in fact consensus among the people I have skip classes to take a break. 
canvassed is that a ThanksgivingQ: How important is the student break is too late to serve as ainput that as of Novembel!' 30 last break--it's no longer a break. 
year 89 percent of the student body There is a difference between a 
opposed the pre-Labor Day start? 
period when you can catch up on 
A: Student input is not what your work, especially if you're in students say. It's what students Arts and Letters, because thedo. 

tempo of work in different. 
Q: Does the student inpu1t that 69 colleges is different and a faculty
percent of the students on 
member, or an Arts and LettersNovember 30 stated that thz pre­student or a graduate student canLabor Day start would appreciably easily accumulate obligations thatdecrease their summer earnings bear down heavily near the end of and a similar figure in our Ob­the semester. And so an in­server poll on Registration Day terruption of classes would turnalso said that. Does that af­the Thanksgiving break into whatfect your thinking on next year's Christmas used to be, that is, a pre or post-Labor Day start? 
time when you intend to do a lot of A: The question is not whether it work, need to do a lot of work,affects my thinking, but whether it might not do it and then feel badly affects their thinking. If the extra about it. But a real break has towork is worth sacrificing a break come earlier in the semester at afor, then that's the kind of calendar time when you willcleanly move we should have. But what these away from course work and get a same students have in fad been rest. 
saying is that they want both. And (}: So what you're saying is thatthey can't have both. 
a two or three day break would not Q: Would it be possible to be sufficient?
have ... Well, let's talk about this A: The students say that.
year's calendar... 
(}: The students say that?
A: Do you see the point I'm A: Sure, they don't take two ortrying to make? 
three day breaks, they take seven (}: I see your point, Father. 
or eight days at a time.
A: ... the choice is not mine, but Q: How many students do youtheirs. And so far while they say think do that?
the loss of earnings is a very A: It varies each year, but it'sserious thing, it evidently hasn't quite significant. And there arebeen serious enough to make them some that take it not at all inwilling to stay here and go to class conjunction with the long weekend when we're in session. 
we've had.
So what the calendar really does, (}: What percentage of stude~tsthe calendar we're presently on, is are you talking about? 
to conform to demonstrated A: Significant enough for
student preferences. 
professors to have difficulty in the(}: So in your mind the student continuity of their classes. If apreferences to which you are professor is tying to gear a coursecatering is the preference for a for the whole body of studentsbreak as opposed to the there and a significant number are
documented preference for 
absent, it's very difficult not to feelstarting after Labor Day'? 
that you've got to kind of ac­A: Right. In other words the commodate yourself to the ab­students want both and so far have sence and repeat much what yourefused to make a choice. 
did while they were gone.
Q: Let's talk about this year's I think it's varied from professor break. The break falls in late to professor, but we've all noticed October. And coupled with the it. We've all looked around theearly start and the break ttuat's one halls. 
week later than it was last year, I think a lot of people simply
you are talking about a break not seriously
have addressed
that's a week and a half' to two themselves to the issue of whether weeks later than it was last year. 
or not a break a little after the 



GYMNASTS 
OUR ORGNIZATIONAt 1\1\EETING 
VVILL BE 1-ELID IN THE []ILLON HALL OiAPEL Tl.I":SDAY, SEPlrEIVIER 10 Alr 7:30P.M. TRY TO BE THIERE 
Editor's note: The following is the text of an interview with University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell by News Editor Terry· Keeney. Burtchaell focuses on his reaction to the new Academic Calendar passed last year featuring the earlfest start of classes in University history. 
Q: Has the new calendar proven satisfactory to you so far? 
A: I think that's impossible to answer. The calendar, I think, has to be judged at the end. The calendar has features about it that are disagreeable to everybody. I don't know anybody who favors coming back and trading possible vacation time for work time at the end of August. I cer-tainly don't. 
The issue really is not so much whether the calendar is satisfactory, but whether anybody can think of a better one without sacrificing one of the imperatives that goes into calendar-making. 
Q: Have you received any ad­verse comment on the calendar from faculty or administration mPmbers so far? 
A: Well, the only thing to think to comment on so far is that we're here a week earlier than in past years. And since nobody favors that, naturally it's a disagreeable thing for all of us. But I have not in fact received more than a few letters, mostly from parents. 
Q: 
Last year in the discussion with thP students in the Center for Continuing Education you said in November. 'I feel the calendar will justify itself next year. It should be reviewed after spending one autumn semester to see what it's like.' Do you see the calendar coming up for review or recon­sideration by the Academic Council this year? 

A: Yes, (promised it. 

Q: 
Do you think the calendar will be rescinded or should be? 


A: We're talking about two things. The actual setting of the calendar is my responsibility, one of the most unpleasant ones. Anybody else is welcome to it. The setting of the rules for the making of the calendar is the task of the Academic Council which specifically does not want the administrative responsibility of publishing the calendar itself. I find it impossible to anticipate exactly what the Council will want to do. 
It isn't just a question of not liking the calendar. It's really a waste of time for people to say it's disagreeable coming back early-­that's not the point. The point is what else can we do and still honor the different needs the calendar has. If people said that they would be willing to forego a vacation in the middle of the semester, half the problem is solved. The trouble is that a number of faculty have said they do favor taking a break, and the students have made that very clear by leavingandtaking one. 
Q: 
Let's talk about the pre­Labor Day start in thinking of a start next year after Labor Day. Do you think that the fact that in our Observr;r poll on Registration Day 90 percent of the students polled favored reconsideration of the calendar for a pre-Labor Day start is significant? 

A: No. 

Q: 
You don't feel that's significant? 


A: No, because that's taking one feature of the calendar in isolation. WilllOO percent of the 280 promise to stay here if we do away with the break. And experience has shown they have not been willing to do that in the past. That would be 
significant. That would show that we have a student body disposed to a calendar change. 
Q: Fr. Hesburgh has said that once a calendar has been adopted middle of the semester is wor­thwhile enough to take. And the community simply has to make up its mimi on that. That's what the Academ!ic Council is going to have to decide. 

Q: The community including student input? 
A: Sure, a.nd not excludng faculty input. Many students ignored faculty needs,· forg..9tting that students can take a week off and faculty can't. And I got a number of faculty comments that greatly favored the idea of the break. 
My job is to create an honest calendar that coordinate itself with the educational requirements and the demonstrated preferences of all the campus community. And what makes it difficult is that those preferences are not ·unam­biguously clear. Sometimes they are inconsistently demonstrated. If there are five needs a calendar has to satisfy, it does no good just to talk about one of them. 
Q: So one of thzse "Five needs" is people leaving early at breaks, for example, people taking an extra day off. 
A: One of the needs is that we have an honest calendar, that is, when courses are in session, students and faculty are here. Anything that schedules classes for a phantom student body is a farce. 
(}: Don't you think most universities in the country, in­cluding private universities, not just state schools have this same problem and it's something that will occur under any calendar? 
A: Sure, that's why we have our present calendar. 
Q: No, but it's going to occur no matter what calendar you're under. 
A: No. There always is a little bit of erosion. Our auestion is significant or negligible erosion. There are vacations that have almost no erosion and then there are vacations that have enormous erosion. And it's only intelligent to interpret this as a demonstrated preference for more time. Well, the cost of taking more time in October is getting less time should look for in October? 
A: I don't think there is any doubt that most students will go somewhere. 
What we have basically is a calendar in the fall that matches the calendar in the spring. It doesn't have to be that way. But there is a certain tried and true history to the spring calendar. 
Q: You talk about tried and true history, the only midsemester break we've ever had is last year with those two days in October. 
A: In the fall. 
(}: Previous to that we had none. Do you feel that the notio11 ol the break and having a rest is somehow !':ubstituted at Notre Dame by football weekends because you have parents and friends coming up and for students it is a break. How do you think? 
A: I think you could argue both ways. I think football weekends are wonderful festivals when 
people do set aside their work. On 
the other hand, the time is always 
spent here and a lot of people feel 
like they get behind in their work. 
I've heard people argue both sides. 
I happen to enjoy them enor­
mously. But of course, a football 
weekend is basically a 24-hour 
period Friday night to Saturday 
night. And on most football 
weekends you'll find the library 
full on Sunday afternoons and 
evenings. 
(}: I don't have any more questions. Do you have anything you'd like to add? 
A: Calendar-making is a kind of a hopeless business because there are features in ever calendar you can think of that enough of us will think disagreeable for us to oppose the calendar. But anyone who is auything near the responsibility of making one knows that you've got to have a calendar and it's got to 
conform to sound educational 
policy and human energies and 
preferences. 
Our problem is not that we have a calendar that defies people's preferences, but that the preferences must involve choices. And so far many critics of the 
<continued on page 6) 

at the end of August. And it is so obvious that people have to take their choice. 
Q: What can we look for in October? Will a crucial question for you as to whether this academic calendar should be rescinded by how many students take off before or after? 
A: The decision is not going to be mine. Goodness, I wouldn't want to be stuck with it. The Academic Council is going to make the decision and I can't anticipate all the grounds on which they will 
base their decision. Basically I have urged them to make it on educational grounds. What is the best tempo for learning here? I think that was how they ap­proached the issue last year and I'm confident that's the way they'll approach it again. 
Q: The educational tempo you spoke of getting a realistic break where students will actually break from studies, are you talking about leaving campus or going home? 
A: Having the freedom to do 

that. Q· · So that's 'Something we 
The AirForce ROfC CollegeProgram haS 3thingsto oJferthat othercoUege programs 

don't. 

I. Scholarships. 2. $100monthly allowance. 
3. Fl~ing le~s.ons leading to JCI trammg. 
Enroll in Air Force ROTC. 
Contact CAPT SHEPHERD 
At 6634 
PUT IT ALL TOGETHER IN AIR FORCE ROTC 

'PENDLE ·PUB STlDENT SPECIAL 10% OFF REG. PRICES 
with this coJpon 
on. 


Nbn. • Toes.·· Wed. · (CARRY-OUT 11\JCLUDED) Just No. of Ind. Toll Road Ent. 


THE OBSERVER. 
Af\1 INDEPENDENT STUDFNT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-1471 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Ann McCarry Marlene Zloza Editorial Editor Managing Editor 
Terry Keeney Bob McManus
Bob Zogas Business Man.:ger News Ed._:_i~_o..:_r__________A_d_v_e:__rt_i:.::.s.:.:.in:....g,_M.:.:.:::.an:.:.:a::.;g!.:e:_:_r 
___ Septe!Dhfl=-:-~_lJ"-L-;1:.!9:.!.74"'--------------------------­
Pursue the Truth 
The pardon of Richard Nixon by President Ford regardless of its merit has been granted. 
From all viewpoints, it appears that the decision will stand as it has been made; a 'full, free and absolute pardon unto Richard Nixon for all offenses against the United States which he, Richard Nixon has com­mitted or may have committed or taken part in during the period from January 20, 1969 through Aughst 9, 1974.' 
At this point, debate and argument over the value of the pardon seems moot. What is needed is an understanding of the paths of truth which are opened by this action. 
In an editorial of August 28, 1974, The Observer called for the continued in­vestigation of Richard Nixon within our heritage of due process of law. Now, it seems that the due process has been, at the least, clouded over and obscured. The pardon of Richard Nixon could essentially seal the truth about Watergate forever from the American people. 
Though the due process of law has been obscured, the basis for demanding that the law be carried out still remains: the American people deserve to know the truth about the activities of Richard Nixon during the time covered by President Ford's pardon. 
There is a way for the truth to be made known. It is a way that has been left open to Richard Nixon through this pardon. He has now been given the freedom from prosecution which is congenial to his making a clean breast of the entire matter. He can come clean in two wavs. 
Richard Nixon can offer, on his own, to come before the American people with the entire Watergate story. 
Or, Nixon can offer to co-operate fully with the Watergate prosecutors. His testimony would be invaluabble in procuring, for those whose pardon remains unconsidered, a 'fair trial'. 
There are means left open to the prosecutors as well, from this pardon. A subpoena served to Richard Nixon would almost assure his appearance in court, since it would be impossible for him to plead the fifth amendment. The fifth amendment is in regards to people who fear in­crimination in a case. Richard Nixon no longer needs to be afraid of this, as the pardon releases him. 
In his statement yesterday, President Ford cited the insurance -of domestic tranquility as a prime reason for the par­doning of Richard Nixon. Though it can be argued that this action could have ramifications which would affect just the opposite of the President's intentions, it should be hoped that his actions will help to reveal the full truth about Watergate. It is only by pursuing the truth in this matter that the wounds suffered during the last two years can begin to heal. 
The Editorial Board 
doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 
the observer 
')~,.;, ~.1 I;> 
d7 7. ~qo
(}:'~-0\Y J I 

Night Editor: Rick Blower
(};l( "'CJ0
SIR, IF YOU OON'r MINO 
(;1! UV 808, AS YO(} 

Assistant Night Editor: Andy
t Me SAYING 5~ t.CTTING 
KNOW, WRING 
Praschak
' THe !NTIR£ NIXON CABINET 
THOS£ FIRST PAYS.. 

Layout: Martha Fanning, Kathy
o STAY ON COtJW Be A MOVE IT UIA5 IMPORTANT 

Skiba, Sue Zwick, Maggie Walt­
M'RE GO/N6 TO REGRET. 
TO 5TRe55 CON1/NUITY.. 

man, Mark O'Shaughnessey
\ 
~~-I 

Copy Editor: Jim Eder, and Pat 
Hanifin Day Editor: Ken Girouard Editorials: Fred Graver and Ann 
McCarr y Sports: Bill Brink, Peggy Lawlor, John Fineran Typists: Dan Roos, Camille Arrich Neil Viii, Rick Huber ' Compugraphic Operator: Bob Stein­metz 
Picture Screener: Albert D'Antonio
,-(?';i,<.,~ 


JfrOi~ 

Night Controller: Dave Rust
~-rl' 

The Editorial Board
IT's JIJST .I 01/JNT BUT TI-le YEAH, 
YES, 5/R, YEAH, 
If/ANT 77J &+f8ARRA55 

Editor-in-Chief: Tom Drape
IQHO/...! I KNOIU.. 
5AX813 IN FRONT OF 

Editorial Editor: Ann McCarry
THE OJHERG.
CA81N£T? I 

Managing Editor: Marlene Zloza
/ 

Sports Editor: Greg Corgan
'-~­

News Editor: Terry Keeney Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy Special Projects: AI Rutherford St. Mary's Editor: Mary Janca Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink Features Editor: J.R. Baker Contributing Editors: Fred Graver, Jim Eder,---~ 
Pattie Cooney1-------------..JPhoto Editor: 
Zenon Bidzinskl 


Beyond amnesty 
iim eder 
In the last issue of this newspaper there appeared an editorial calling upon the President and all Americans to extend "bridges of welcome" to the thousands of young men who fled to Canade rather than participate in the Vietnam War. As a new member of the editorial board I was asked to express my opinion on this matter. I concurred wholeheartedly with the stance taken in Friday's paper. Yes, we must somehow try to reunite the citizens of this country and heal the wounds left on the hearts and minds of our people by the devastating conflict that plagued our nation for over ten years. 
The solution to this problem is not at all simple, however. The plan which will be shortly forthcoming from the White House will undoubtedly have an abundannce of critics. This is only natural, for however noble and moral their reasons may have been, those who evaded the draft did violate the law. To welcome their return even conditionally, is to admit that the law was at least partially wrong. Of course, no such admission will ever be made publicly, but somewhere somedoubtras to the propriety of the law must exist, or else the proposal of amnesty would never have been raised. Conditional am_n~sty not only denotes partial guilt on the part of those to whom It IS granted but also partial liability on the part of those who grant it. 
Ifwe doindeed doubt the propriety of a law that forces men to s~rv~ _in the military against their will, then the question of real significance that we should confront is not how to recom pense the past but how to amend the present so as to safeguard the future. Those men who chose to leave this country rather than participate in the Vietnam War will inevitably bear the consequences of that dec_ision. J?espite a!ly ki~d of amnesty they will forever carry the stam o_f guilt for their actiOn, for there are simply too many people who _will always Ioo~ upon them with contempt --the jealous, the embittered, the foolish, those who did endure the experience of serving, those who lost loved ones senselessly, and those who pr~tend to objectively judge others without knowing. Yes, we must brmg the refugees home, but no, we will never be able to com­pletely accept them. 
The important issue now is how to avoid such a dilemma in the future --how to establish an equitable system of national service t~at would effectively deal with a variety of people: those willing to fight, those opposed to all wars, those opposed to aparticular war and those physically or mantally incapable of combat. A syste~ thatwould allow every American to proudly serve his ocuntry without compromising himself or his ideals. Can such a system ever be es.tablished? I believe that it can, if we are willing to make som~ ~as1c and significant changes in our traditional concept of patriOtic duty. The plan that I am about to unveil is only a very rough blueprint of one which, when thoroughly developed and implemented, may offer a solution to our problem. 
I propose that all Americans, both male and female, be required to serve their country by enlisting for either an 18-month tour of dut~ in the N~tional Military Service or a 3-year tour of duty in the National Social Service. This service requirement could be fulfilled any time between the age of 18 and 26. Such flexibility would allow each individual to easily incorporate his tour of dutyinto his plans for the future_ 
The National Military Service owuld be organized much like the present armed forces, and each person would be allowed to select which branch of the service he or she wished to enter. The National Social Service would be composed of a number of organizations imilar to the present volunteer programs of VISTA, ACTION, and the Peace Corps. The NSS ~ouldalso include professional branches to offer medical care and legal assistance to the many Americans who presently cannot afford such services. Again, each person would be allowed to select which branch of the service he or she wished to enter, provided that there were an opening in that area and the individual were qualified to fill it. 
So far my proposals may not seem very original; such ideas have been suggested before. My concept regarding the extent of one's duty as a member of the military, however, is quite unique. In fact, some may even deem it infeasible and unconstitutional but it deserves serious consideration, for I believe that it is ess~ntial to finding a solution to our dilemma. . :According_to my plan, if Congress were to declare war or pass a JOint, two-thirds resolution to enter into an armed conflict, every member of the National Military Service would be required tp serve combat duty for the remainder of his term plus an additional six J?Onths, if so ordered by his superiors. If, however, the President alone were to decide to send troops into battle, each member of the NMSwould only be required to serve a macimum of 90 days in combat duty. Consequently, the safety and well-being of the United States would be ensured, yet no one man would have the power to plunge this nation into a war against its will. The President, as commander-in-chief, owuld still be able to mobilize forces at a moment's notice in the best interests of the country but he would not be able to engage in a long-range struggle without the consent of Congress. Thus the American people, thrpugh their representatives, would be allowed to decide whether or not they wanted to go to war. 
I believe that the adoption of these proposals woudl successfully prevent the current controversy from reoccuring. Everyone would serve his ocuntry in osme capacity; no one would be exempt. Yet each person would do so according to his own will and conscience. Those who are opposed to all wars and those who are phusically or m_entally in~apable of_ enterin~ combat would serve their country with honor m the National Soc1al Service. Those who are not op­posed to war, when they feel that it is necessary, have two options. They also may enter the NSS, or they may serve half as much time in the NMS but knowingly accept the risk and responsibility of having to go to war. If they choose the latter and are required to serve in combat, at least they will know that the cause for which they are fighting will more than likely be that of a majority of the people and in the best interest of the country. 
Knievel fails to conquer canyon 
------------·---· -­
Monday, September 9, 1974 

the observer 

TWIN FALLS, Idaho <UPI) and bounced to a halt, right chute because the rocket began slid from its tail chamber, Knievel 's grip on the trigger Motorcycle wizard Evel side up, just 20 feet from the to roll. pulling out the main chute. was jolted loose by the launch. 
Knievel failed to conquer the river's dark green water. When Knievel emerged from "The shot almost knocked me Knievel's version of the quarter-mile Snake River Can­John Branker, executive pro­the "SI<ycycle" at the bottom of out," Knievel said after being aborted flight was different. He yon Sunday because a para­ducer for Top Rank, Inc., which the treacherous, lava-walled whisked by helicopter back to said the rocket's designers chute popped out of the tail of promoted the space-age stunt, canyon, he waved to the the launch site. "told me many times that, if I his mini-rocket as it blasted off said the parachute cover throngs that lined the rims of Asked whether his failure could ever see any opposite from the launch ramp. accidentally flew off at blastoff, the gorge above him. would spell retirement for him, wall of the canyon instead of 
Knievel, who earned at least preventing successful comple­The blastoff came at 3:35 Knievel said, "I don't know sky that would mean it <the $6 million for his 48-second tion of the flight. He said the p.m. PMT (5:35 p.m. EDT). what I'll do. I'm sorry. I gave rocket) was rolling and I should flight, suffered only cuts and same thing happened during The red, white and blue rocket, it my best." pull the chute and, thank God bruises when his "Skycycle X2" one of the two previous test looking like something from a A doctor gave the cyclist a he taught me that. He saved parachuted to the rugged flights. kiddies' carnival ride, rose physical examination and said my life." bottom of the 600-foot-deep But the 34-year-old Knievel from tlhe launch ramp for 8.7 he suffered no serious injuries. Bob Arum, Top Rank presi­gorge he had vowed to vault said he himself released the seconds. Then the drogue chute There was minor bleeding from dent, said, "Evel did not 
Knievel's eyes and nose-but release the stick-it was a this had been expected because machine malfunction that of the powerful thrust at popped the parachute."



Off-can1pus poll condtrcted 
blastoff. Arum also said Top Rant Knievel, whose flight made grossed $26 million from the him the highest price daredevil futile attempt and this was $10
for more responsibility," ac­cable TV. 
in history, had trouble getting million less than expected.
by Theresa Stewart cording w the survey form's Cont1·ary to last year, women off his seat belt. "Thank God I In all, Knievel spent threeStaff Reporter catagories. can and do move off campus. Out didn't go into the river or I hours at the launch site. BeforeOver two thirds of the students Sixty-one percent were ready to of about ten, six were given never would have made it," he he left he hurled his trademarkwho moved off campus last year try a different living situation, 58 questionnaires. All six attributed said. cane into the crowd. He said itleft to be free of the campus rules percent wanted to assume more to the move to a desire for change The chutes were controlled by was his $22,000, gold-andand regulations, according to a independence and self-control. and opportunity for more a "deadman stick" which could diamond-handled cane. But hesurvey conducted by Fr. James Coming fourth was the desire for responsibility in their lives. Four trigger them with the release of was seen leaving the siteShilts, former director of off­"better living accommodations." out of the six felt strongly about pressure. One official said carrying a similar cane later.
campus housing. Those leaving Fifty-six students felt im­getting away from campus rules. campus to escape the rules provements can be made upon Marrige lost again; none left to get amounted to 69.1 percent. dorm life, although the question married. 
Distributed to all on-campus did not specify the kind of im­Fr. Shilts, author of the 

ND employees killed
male students leaving campus for provements. questionnaire, believes the "large some reason other than "Quiet and privacy" and a majority of students have sound graduation, the survey of motives "cheaper lifest~le" evenlydivided a and mature reasons for moving off by Thomas O'Neil Kaley Streets. The Kwist car was for moving received 400 replies, minority of responses. "Better campus." Staff Reporter hit broadside and pushed into a 139 of which offered reasons study conditions" bother only 20 In the: conclusion of the study he nearby home causing an estimated beyond the motives provided by percent. said that "the prevailing motive to Two cooks from the North Dining $1,000 damages to the house. the survey form. Most of these The hall lottery, expected to be escape campus regulations was Hall, Mrs. Margaret Kwist, 52, and After the accident was reported spontaneous remarks complained an important factor, influenced viewed as consistent with the other Mrs. Wanda Bartosik, 50, were to Dining Hall workers, many took about adminnistration-imposed only 27 percent to move off cam­responses calling for more student killed in an auto crash on their way time from their jobs to attend a restrictions and rules. Fourteen pus. Nor were a large number independence and responsibility." to work Friday shortly before 4 Mass celebrated by Universitystudents gave one word for moving drawn off campus by a desire to This survey defined this decision to a.m. Chaplin Fr. Robert Griffin in the off campus: 'MACHECA," live with those forced off. Out of step inlto a more unsure, but 'Maggie' Kwist, a Dining Hall Stanford-Keenan Chapel. In his another seven named "BURT­those influenced by the lottery, controllable future as an af­cook since 1962, and Wanda Bar­brief homily Fr. Griffin announced CHAELL" without any ex­however, four complained they firmation of the Student Affair's tosik a cook since 1968, were that "this is the first in a series of planation. needlessly moved off because of program for student respon­passengers in the auto driven by Masses for those called home to 
This dissatisfaction with the poor information. sibility. However, the survey Mrs. Kwist's husband, Martin, who God today."rules corresponded with the second Marriage came in last place, emphasized the need for "im­died in the St. Joseph emergency Dining Hall workers respondedand third strongest influences, the with 4.8 percent. Finally, one provements and more extensive room at 6:20 a.m. to the incident solemnlv. One "need for change" and the "desire student left campus to tie into studies ofthe quality of dorm life." The driver of the second car, woman commented, "They were 
Larry Chojnacki, 23, has been two of the finest people I ever charges with reckless driving after knew. They kept the working at­reportedly driving at a high speed mosphere light and cheerful, and and failing to stop for a stop sign at they were a great help and great

Circle K projects slated 
the intersection of Huron and friends to all of u~." 
by Bob Mader 

Staff Reporter with community-involvement help paint and repair equipment Members of the Notre Dame programs. for a carnp for the handicapped. A Circle K, a service-oriented "We want to get into projects like social gathering is in the planningBig Brother, Big Sister, helping the stage for Saturday night after the
organization sponsored by 
handicapped, working with kids on
Kiwanis, held their first project of game. 
the year yesterday afternoon. probation, and aiding the un­On Oetober 4,5 and 6, the Notre The project, cleaning up the derprivileged," he said. Dame Circle K is hosting the Fall litter around St. Mary's and St. Among other activities planned Issues Conference for the Indianll Joseph's lakes, was the first of for the fall are a paper sale in disfrict The state board meeting 
a number of more important ac­conjunction with Kiwanis to be will be held Saturday morning. tivities planned for this year. Its held in South Bend, an interclub That afternoon guest speakers will real purpose was to "help the club project with the Purdue Circle K, talk on environmental concerns, 
members get to know each other," and the Fall Issues Conference at health problems, student needs, according to Kevin Ford, Circle K Notre Dame in October. prison reform and community­involvement programs.
vice-president. On September 28, members of 
The next meeting of Circle K is 
Ford said that the club was the Purdue Circle K and members 
September 16, at 7:15p.m. in the
serious about the cleanup project, of the Notre Dame club will join but that they are more concerned forces before the football game to Breen-Phillips basement. 



Tomorrow 
*LOUIE'S BAR*-·­
744 No. ND Ave. !ANNOUNCNGLOUIE'S BEER SPECAL! 
16 oz. 
50¢ 
*ITALIAN *LOUE'S SAN»t.OiES FANOUS PIZZAt 
Come Early -join us for supper! 
Obi~r.ve~'-Jf~ws Staff Meeting 
Rep·orters, day editors, c:opy.-editors and interns. New members invited. 7 P.M. at The Observer Offices 
Monday, September 9, 1974
the observer 


Father Burtchaell discusses calendar 
(continued from page 3) A: Possibly, I don't know. That's calendar simply not been willing to the trouble if you make a choic.e. make the choice. If they did the You have to make the supportive problem would be over tomor~ow. choices which show you're serious 
It's a community choice whether in the first place. And it's not my 
we want to start early or have no problem. break. And the point at issue won't In fact, the calendar issue is be resolved until that choice is much more a community issue decided unless somebody wants to than the community now realizes. move Christmas. And I think it will probably come 
Q: Will you see that recon-out that there are some strong sideration of the calendar comes divisions even among our different up in the second semester before constituencies. Not when asked the Academic Council? whether they want to come back a 
A: I've said so about eight certain date or whether they want times. I'm sure there is nothing a break, but whether this or that they'd less rather take up than concrete calendar is preferable to that. Then I hope the ctJ.oice will be this or that one. Reasonable men made. If we do decide against a will differ. mid-semester break, then we have Q: You make the calendar under to follow that up with some kind of the parameters of the Academic procedure to insure we don't take a Council. Do you have any par­break because it will be entirely ticular .proposal that you would dishonest to remove the break like to bring up? Or ifyou had your from the schedule but to continue it druthers would you see next fall in practice while classes are still in semester with the same Academic session. And that's going to Calendar? require obvious measures by the A: My hunch is that the one faculty. we've got now is the best. But it's a 
Q: Would that include making hunch that has to be put to the test. attendanre mandatory on days I base that hunch on thz rather bt>fore and after vacations? strongly demonstrated preference 
A: I think a lot of people will see by a large part of the community that as a corollary. for some kind of break. Also it's a 
O: Will that mean making a clear trend among other schools. thrt>t>-rut maximum policy in a Virtually every school in Indiana rourse? started the same day we did. 
Hurricane Carmen Yleakening rapidly 
NEW ORLEANS <UPI) -weaken as it moves through 
Hurricane Carmen, which Southwest Louisiana today," 
slammed into the marshy Gulf said a weather service spokes­
Coast with 155 mile per hour man. "High tides and salt 
winds and rain, was officially water over the marshes will 
reduced to tropical storm status gradually recede along the 
Sunday as it weakened rapidly Louisiana coast this afternoon 
and began to break up in its and tonight." 
slow journey through Southwest No deaths or serious injuries 
Louisiana. were reported from the storm 
Hurricane and gale warnings that died quickly after hitting 
were discontinued all along the the Louisiana coast Saturday 
coast. The National Weather night. The greatest damage 
Service estimated at 2 p.m. was to the sugar cane crop of 
CDT that Carmen carried which, officials said, as much 
winds of only 50 miles per hour. as 20 per cent or $50 million 
"Carmen will continue to might be lost. 
Sunshine Promotions Presents 
Van Morrison 

and Special Guest 
Dave Loggins 
Sunday Sept. 15 7:30P.M. 
Athletic and 
Convocation Center


NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices:
Bleacflers __ •________ $4.00 Lower Arena _________ $5.0 0 Loge _____ •_________ $6,0,o Platform ____________ $6,00 Floor Seats __________ S6100 
Tickets On Sale: 

Gate 10 Ticket Office, Student 
Union Ticket Office (3rd Floor 
Lafortune), Robertson's, St. Joe 
Bank & Branches, First Bank 'Downtown, Elkhart Truth. 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Van Morrisor. Send to Van Morrison Show A.C. C. ticket office, Notr~ Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
LOST AND FOUND 
Reward for return of green spiral notebook and Computer Data Processing book 'accidentally' taken from South Dining Hall Sept 
5. Please give back -no questions asked. 235 Walsh 8093. 
Lost: I make-up bag. Gray 
paisley  canvas  with  red  
leather  binding.  Initials  
N.M.S.  Reward $20.  Call  
6294  

Lost: Notebooks and st ide­rule (British Thornton) from South Dining hall. Call Seshadri: 6320, 7469. 
Large Reward: for the return or information concerning the location of my bicycle. Red tO-speed Fuji. Leather seat, Suntour derailleur. Taken from 2nd floor Grace Tues. night or early Wed. morning. Reward will be paid, no questions asked. Call Steve 1859. 
Lost: Bowmar calculator in Engineering or Nieuwtand Science Hall. Reward. Call 1211. 
Found: Contact tenses with case near North Dining Hall: Call Tom, 8537. 
Found: '75 class ring in 
O'Shag. Contact Mike 
Flynn at the Univ. Club any noon. FOR RENT 
House available, prime 
S.E. area. Two br. fur­nished. All utilities and cable for 3 students. Call 287-7818. 
M on y Present razy Record 
BICYCLING: Stow cycling came to a virtual end in 1965 when Tsugunobu Mitsuishi, age 39 of Japan, stayed stationary on his bike for 5 hrs., 25 min!! 1 WOW!!! 
Source: Guiness' Book of World Records 

Life insurance tailored to fit the unique needs of students and young 
' ' 

·-._ __professionals. 
'-,_ 

For further information call: 
2 3 3 -3 1 0 4 
IT'S GOOD TO HAVE 


M0NY 
IN YOUR FUTURE 
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York 
Attention Off-campus Renters: 3 br. house. 825 Bryan St. behind St. Mary's College. Available Sept. 6. Can take 4 students. Call 287-7818. 
House for rent. 1136 E. Sorin. 2 br., LR, DR, S. 
Porch,  Part.  Furn.  Call  
Jim  Licata,  289-7811,  287­ 
8282.  

NOTICES 
24 hr. TV repair -color TV's $60 and up. 282-1955. 
N.E. Day Care may fit your needs. Students, faculty, or otherwise. 233-2233, 233­3865 
Want to learn to play guitar? Call Coleen, 288­5506. 
TTALISMAN & THE HASH BROWN BLUES BAND NOW AVAILABLE FOR DANCES, PARTIES, CONCERTS, AND PREGAME PER FORMANCES. CALL 272­9895 FOR INFORMATION. 
Madame Fifi's Grand Opening spread (the word)? 
Bilbo's Birthday -Sept 22. Organizing now for suitable celebration. Call 6246, 11 midnight. 
Experienced typist will do: term papers, manuscripts. Call Jane, 233-5332. 
Stamp collectors: Anyone interested in trading stamps, call Jim at 8625 or 8627. 
Handmade Indian turquoise jewelry from the Southwest. Rings, bracelets, earrings and accessories, all very reasonably priced. 287-0076 after 7. 
Money? Morissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150 for 30 days. 1 percent in­terest, 1day waiting period. 
11:15 -12:15 daily, basement of LaFortune. 
lnPIRG office hours: 1-3 pm daily, Student Gov Offices, 2nd floor LaFor­tune. 7668-6413. 
Frank needs a few good men! Pizza delivery, bartending, dishwashing, cooking, etc. Apply at the Roma, 219 N. Michigan Avenue (next to Morris Civic Auditorium). 
Found at SMC Wed. night: Cut.off jeans with pink embroidery on left rear pocket with purple and white macrame belt. Call Tom, 8785. 
THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE HOURS Hil~ SEMESTER WILL BE 12:15-5:00 MWF AND 
11 :00-1:00 and 2:30-5:00 TT. THE TICKET OFFICE IS LOCATED ON THE SOUTH END OF THE SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE (ABOVE THE HUDDLE). VAN MORRISON AND SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE. 
PERSONALS 
To the Roman Pontiff: Urge the lions upon your­sell. May they grind you to fine wheat. 
The Atheists 
Top Bunk 1st Floor Keenan: Pull your pants up or your shades down! 
Blushing Girl 
GOLDEN GIRL: 
GLAD YOU'RE HERE. THE SUMMER WAS GREAT; THE YEAR WILL BE GREATER. ­
LOVE, SUNSHINE Snip: 

Happy Anniversary. Hope your two years have been as good as mine. 
Love, · 
Snot 
WANTED 

Wanted: Senior or Grad. student with skiing ability and knowledge of ski equipment. Approximately 20 hrs per week -some evenings and some weekends Interviews Tues. 2-9 at Think Snow Ski Shop, Mini Mall at Town & Country Shopping Center. 
Wanted: Qualified in­structor in any Chinese martial art to teach student with 11f2 yrs experience. Call Leo, 3313. 
Need ride to Detroit sub. weekend of Sept. 21. Can leave Sept 19, 20, 21. Please call Jean, 5384. 
Ride needed from Mich. City to NO, five days a week. Call Jerry in evenings at 874-6324. 
Need 1 Miami GA ticket. Will pay cash. Bill, 8787. 
Need 6 GA tickets for Purdue $110. Call 8164. 
I or 2 GA or faculty tickets for Purdue and Army games. Call 234-1672. 
Desperately need Purdue fix, GA or student. Call Joe, 
3663.  
~---·---­ 
Needed desperately: GPA Purdue tickets. Karen, 5140.  4 Call  

Need 3 Purdue tickets, G.A. Call 1548 evenings. 
Need 6 GA tickets for Purdue . $110. Call 8164. 
Help Wanted: 20-30 hrs. Must have car. Pandora's Books. We're friendly people. 233-2342, 602 N. St. Louis Blvd., South Bend 
Need Student or GA tickets for Purdue. Call Paul, 8923. 
Need 4 Miami GA tickets. Also tickets for any other home game. Chuck, 1592. 
Elvis Presley concert tickets for trade. we have 2 tickets, first row, main floor, Oct. show. Will trade for 2 tickets, rows 1-10, main floor, Sept show. Ca II 288­8435 or 234-7316. 
Wanted: Roommate to share 2 bedroom apt at Turtle Creek. Call 272-1239. 
FOR SALE 

Coors Beer. $10 per case. 272-9780, 8-11 pm. 
169 Otds 442 Convt (blue). $1100. Contact 283-6162 or 272-5498 (after 4 pml. 
Ash a i Pentax S PO II. Konica Autoreflex T with Vivitar zoom 85 -205 mm. Call 277-0021, George. 
1972 Yamaha 250 Street Bike. Recently tuned. $525. Call 3378. 
4 Dynaco 835 spkrs. 1 yr old. List $120 each. ast<;11g $65 each. Call Alike, 232­8749. 
'73 175 Honda. Excellent conrH~on. $500. See Terry, 81J Blaine. 


.......,.. Monday, September 9, 1974 
Title defense begins in Atlanta 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

At Notre Dame it's never just another season. For Irish op­ponents it's never just another game. And as the 1974 football season marks the beginning of the seco'?-d decade in the "Era of Ara," beatmg Notre Dame means beating the best; the national champions. 
There's nothing Georgia Tech's Pepper Rodgers would like better to sweeten his homecoming than to defeat Notre Dame. Rodgers returns to Tech, his alma mater, after his 1973 UCLA team led the nation in rushing, was the second highest scoring team in the country and finished number three in total offense. And he did it all with the Wishbone . 
As a result, Rodgers installed the wis?bone at Georgia Tech, and if scrimmages mean anything, the Yellow jacket offense is explosive. . In three intrasquad games the first unit scored 59, 72 and 60 points respectively leading Pepper to comment, "I'll be disappointed if we don't move the ball some--the Wishbone is a good offense. But it's going to be tough. We've made it move against our junior varsity, but we haven't tried to block any 275 pound tackles." 
He'll get his chance tonight when the Irish meet Georgia Tech at Grant Field in Atlanta. Game time is 8 o'clock Indiana time. 
For Notre Dame Head Coach Ara Parseghian clashing with Rodgers wishbone isn't exactly the most comfortable feeling in the world. "We don't know a great deal about Tech's personnel since we didn''t play them last year or see them play," said Parseghian. "We do know that Pepper Rodgers has produced some outstanding teams wherever he's coached. He's done a remarkable job with the wishbone offense and this will be a severe test for our young defense.'" 
The ''Rambling Reck of Georgia 
Tech" have the personnel to pose 
the problems. Tailback David 
Sims, a 203 pound sophomore, is 
the big gun in the Tech backfield 
where he's joined by another 
sophomore, Pat Moriarty and Rick 
Hill, the starting fullback. Sims 
will do most of the ball-carrying, 
and being a former tight end, is 
also a dangerous pass receiver. 
Howeve.r, getting the ball to him 
may be a problem. 
Danny Myers, a junior from Atlanta, was slated to be the starting quarterback tonight, but he will be out of action with a se­verely sprained ankle. Rudy Allen, a junior who has never played a varsity game at quar­terback.. is expected to take over. If Allen throws, something a 


Wishbone quarterback seldom rushing. Opening the way for the does, he has an AU-America ND ball-carriers will be center candidate on the receiving end. Mark Brenneman, guards Gerry Senior Jimmy Robinson holds the DiNardo and AI Wujciak, the pair Tech record for the most touch­of Steve's, tackles Neece and down passes caught in a season Sylvester, and tight end Robin with nine and has the !best season Weber. Through the air Clements reception average in the school's again has the dependable Pete history, 17.6. In two seasons Demmerle and Weber, as well as Robinson has caught 82 passes for all three backs. 11 touchdowns and over 1400 yards. The Irish offense, which ranked 
"I think the Wishbone will make fifth in the nation a year ago, will me more effective," said Robin­undoubtedly cause the son. "It should give me a chance to Yellowjackets problems despite be more open on more long routes the presence of two-time All­since the defense has to worry America Randy Rhino and a truly about the run first. And I like to fearsome linebacking corps. catch those long bombs." Rhino is at safety with sophomore 
The offensive line is anchored by Eddie Porter and cornerbacks Gil outspoken veteran Billy Shields at Kyle and Jim Kroll. The tackle, and, if he echoes team linebackers are led by .Toe Harris sentiment, the Yellowjackets are and an outstanding freshman from more than confident. "I feel we Atlanta, Lucius Sanford. Both have a chance to win every game are known to hurt a few people. on our schedule," said Shields. The Irish counter with a defense "Sports Illustrated said we have no which has hurt more than a few chance against Notre Dame, but people. The front four of Steve that's putting us down. We have Niehaus, Mike Fanning, Kevin alot of talent out here and it's just Nosbusch, and Jim Stock is strong up to us to use it and prove it." and experienced. Collins, Drew Apparently Pepper agrees. The Mahalic and noseguard Marv colorful coach has had his team Russell guarantee a strong practicing dancing in the end zone linebacking corps. The !biggest after touch-downs. area of concern is the deep 
While actions speak louder than secondary where only Reggie words, Rodgers' words are Barnett has game experience. cautiously pessimistic. "Notre Freshman Randy Harrison will be 
Ara Parseghian, beginning his second decade as Notre Dame's head
Dame losing the players they did is at free safety, sophomore John 
coach, has yet to see his Irish lose an opener.
like the guy who had ten million Dubenetzky at strong safety, and dollars and lost a million. He's still junior Randy Payne at right Reeve has been impressive in the has E.O. Whealler who handles a millionaire, he's got nine-tenths halfback. fall, both on kickoffs and field kickoffs and hit a school-record 55 of it left. If the kicking game plays an goals, while punter Tony Brantley yard goal last season. 
"Sure Notre Dame has lost some important role in tonight's game, has added consistency to his Iflast year's national champions good talent," continued Rodgers both squads are assured of solid kicking performance. For the have their way, Tech won't even "but Ara is not exactly broke. Th~ performances. Freshman David Yellow jackets, Pepper Rodgers get that close. 
Irish have lost some people, but
they haven't lost enough.'' S1te·ve QJ.ehl ::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::: 
Parseghian may not exactly agree. "Only a few months ago I ~ 
h R 

felt our biggest challlenges this or t e a'Ssl·ng
year would be our schedule and ourselves. We knew we would be 
~:::cia~aw~~~t~ a:~e:m~~:~;hi;~~ :::::;~~:::~~~~:::~~~~~:::~t~~:t;=~~;;:===~:~~~~~r~~:::=~::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:n6f~:~~:;:::~~;~::z~~::::;i~/~~~:;~~~:::~~~~~~~~~:::~~:~ 
Parseghian said, "but 1also feared pionship football team has had to deal recently with with all that's happened, we can't afford the luxury that we could become victims of one of the most difficult periods in his distinguished of ~omplacency: Of course I'd prefer to emphasize, our own success, that we would career. Realizing that the potential for disaster has while everyone 1s available, that we mustn't rest on have to guard against com-hovered nearby since the triumph of last New last year's laurels. Unfortunately, this has taken placency and becoming self-Year's Eve, Coach Ara Parseighan winds down an care of itself.' The task at hand, then has at least satisfied with our ac-une~pe~ted rebuildin~ process in preparation for been spared one dilemna. But the task remains complishments a year ago." tomght s opener agamst Georgia Tech in Atlanta monumental. 
"Injuries, accidents, and and the subsequent 1974 season. For the first time in many years, Notre Dame suspensions hPve changed that Adversit~ ~as forced. realignment of one of the does not open with Northwestern and, as such, picture radically," he continued. most promiSI~g r.eturmng s9u~ds Parseghian has cannot reasonablly expect victory. Georgia Tech "Now we must regroup and face ever had at ~IS disposal. InJUries and suspensions r~pre~ents an ~bst~cle unique to an opening game the challenge of bouncing back hav.e neutr~hzed the ~ffects ~f a good spring drill s1tuatwn, a pomt m the season Parseighian con-from adversity. penod, forci~g Ara to Improvtse and experiment in siders to be of paramount importance. The success 
" order tr "" a numoe. ~f t 't' B t th f t t' l l
We still have some strong ,_.__,rtunate events of thevacan posi I?ns. u e o any earn, par Icu ar y Notre Dame is assets. .I know we'll have gr" · given :rise to nearly so mu~;ummer of 74 have not predicated on th~ ability to scout an opponen't, to leadership from Tom Clem~e Irish mentor as it has to~ c~ncern on the part of evaluate game film, and thus compile a decisive and Greg Collins. And we h ·an only :OnJecture by those who game plan. However, the Irish had not seen Georgia experie~~ed p~~yers in some other 'ighting Irish. of this year's Tech play prior to tonight's meeting with the Yellow key positions. , The truth exists . Jackets. Nor had they encountered the 1973 UCLA 
One of those positions is the crucial personnel ~a~ mcurred team, guided last year by Tech's new coach, entire offensive backfield where _jossessing great . IS It a team Pepper Rodgers. The Uclans led the nation in Clements, Wayne Bullock, Art ~~_ha..,-e arri . . . across th,~ board. New rushing by virtue of a wishbone offense that sur-Best and AI Samuel will attempt to t. t b Ved to facilitate structural changes passes even those of the experts Alabama, better last year's record 2398 yards brou ~ ought about by m.isfortune. But the effect Oklahoma, and Texas. Hence, the coaching staff
1 

pn the ~ers and coaches IS not as ponderous as it must rely on a wideopen game plan that will allow might be t_ijjjij'S~ ~~tt W~_~act with the for flexibility. Other problems include almost t~am_ t:epends on press reports and n?arsay. The cert~in encounters with heat, humidity, and even d!.rect psychological repercussions have subsided hurncane-related weather. Prospective difficulties 
.with time, as should be expectei:l. Instead;-attention are compounded by the promise of a hostile crowd, 'las shifted to preparations for the 1974 season and a geared to the advantage of an immensely en­.£-fialleng.ing-epening game. Realizing that little can thusiastic group of Tech players under a very ·be done to alter the circumstances to date, those in capable new coach (an alumnus of Georgia Tech) 
•
control have combined with those who perform to who wishes to make his season debut on national repair the situation by making the best of T.V. a memorable one. A fear of possible ambush lverytlh.ing that remains in order to return once-has compelled Parseighian to provide for every high hopes to former levels. likelihood. Apparently, though, the team is , "OnE! of the lessons of competitive athletics teaches responsive to his caveats. 

•you 
that once you're knocked down, you have to get '~hen you expect to be caught off-guard,' offers \Jp," says Parseghian. "I feel this attitude exists split end, Pete Demmerle, 'you over-prepare. :among the coaches and players. We've undergone Georgia Tech will be out to uphold the honor of the ,f.:lisappointments and mishaps, but we must go forward Southeast Conference. Whether they win or lose with the same ambition<:-""'..i goals as always. We they're going to hit hard and run fast.' ' "1"'""lv :•rliust." ~,--a-Is With a team which, despite ill-From all indications, it must be assumed that the luck, shll poss~sses great leader~hip among returning Irish intend to bounce back from less than favorable veterans, particularly the captams, along with other brushes with fate. jThere is no point in dwelling on assets that have been overshadowed by unfortunate calamity. Whether or not the team can rely on its occurrences. optimum structure does not change the fact that 


One of the only redeeming features of the set-what lies ahead does so regardless of Notre Dame's backs 'experiences by the Irish is the cautious ap-problems. For the Fighting Irish, tonight and prehension with which plavers and coaches alike tomorrow and next week represent far more im­have approached Georgia Tech. A healthy fear of port~nt considerations than yesterday. 

Ball control offense utilizes a strong fullback and slick quarterback. The ·~Istory is for the historians,' says the coach. Tomght will evidence that fact as Notre Dame take 
Irish have both in Wayne Bullock (left) ;;nd Tom Clements, and they 
on Georgia Tech in Atlanta, where, hopefully, the
will attempt to control the pigskin at Georgia Tech tonight. 
many !talented past may be allowed to die a quiet death. 
-------' 
Monday, September 9, 1974 • the observer 7 






INDIANALAWSCAN BE CHANGE 

The age of majority alcohol legislation and recent court decisions have had tremendous impact at Notre Dame in the past year. A successful lobby to change these laws cannot come about without showing the voting power of the students. 
I
NOW is the time to BEGIN. , I I 
I 




REGISTER TO VOTE 
TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY SEPT. 1 0, 1 1 , 1 2 
_· 
• 

. 
9 A.M.-5 P.t-A. lafonfune Lobby
?. 
___,.,... --,-. 
\ 
....... 
\. 
' 
5 P.M.-6:30 P.M. oiits_ide~the D;ning Halls 
....... ......,..~ . ••f 
-!. • 
~ 
. 
_..-~~).; ·=-... ' h ..•~ ·~ 
.,. ..~~ -· , . 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT 




