Oil The Inside 
International Festival ... page 3 Letters ... page 10 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 114 Friday, April 26, 1974 
Academic Commission presents proposed code 
by Terry Keeney and Fred Graver 
Academic Affair~ Commissioner Christopher Nedeau last night presented the proposed Academic Code prepared by Fr. James Burtchaell University Provost, and the Deans and Assistant Deans of the four colleges to 'a meeting of the ~cademic Council student representatives, SBP Pat McLaughlin and HPC Chairman Bob Howl. ' 
The proposed academic regulations include: 
-additional fees for credit hours taken over a 17-hour limit in Business and Science. 
-mandatory class attendance on each class day before and after vacations, 
-revision of the standards for the Dean's Honor List from a 3.25 to a 3.5 average, 
-procedures for readmission to the University, -a definition of the University Curve, -and a grade referendum policy. 
Nedeau stated, "Ordinarily, I would not have presented this material until all Academic Council members had received it. 
"However," he continued, "the administration's scheduling of the next two Academic Council meetings left me no other alter­native. The University community must be given a chance to respond to these issues." 
The proposals will be submitted to the third Academic Council meeting this year on May 6 where a decision will be made whether or not to pass it on to a hearing board. 
First Time Compiled 
This is the first time that all 
provisions of the Academic Code have been compiled. The strongest argument," agree Student Body majority of the student protest centers on President Pat McLaughlin. He noted the par­changes amended within the code. ticular strain placed on students enrolled in the 
Nedeau claimed that when he received a copy College of Arts and Letters. of the code at the Academic Council Executive "An Arts and Letters student is paying the Board meeting, Burtchaell characterized it as same amount of tuition and taking less credit being of little relative import to anyone but hours than any other college," McLaughlin merely a codification of existing academic noted. regulations. Nedeau also said that such a restriction on 
"This was not a codification of existing credit hours would be "penalizing intellectual regulations," Nedeau said. "Many of them have ambition." been changed." 
Class cuts at breaks Student Input 
The second priority for student effort would A further focal point of student dissent over the challenge the administration proposal for­Code is the lack of initial student input. bidding cuts the day before and after an official 
"We're the guys who have to hassle this day to academic vacation. day," said Nedeau. "They didn't include us in Under this proposal, argued Nedeau, "The the early work on the regulations which is why University is taking away from the individual we are griping now. professor his control to regulate his class before 
"We still have not convinced them that they and after break." must include student opinion in making McLaughlin cited the effect this plan would proposals," he said. have on student transportation. If this ruling 
The revisions to be proposed by Nedeau center were enforced, all students would have to leave on six major issues. First on the students' list of for vacation on the same day. priorities is the proposed extra charge for "I'd like to see the University provide planes students carrying more than 17 credit hours. for every student," said McLaughlin. 
Fee for extra credits Change Dean!s list 
As the proposal now reads, students would The proposed academic manual would raise have to pay for every credit hour over 17 hours. the grade point requirement for the Dean's Nedeau argued that the plan would place a Honor List from 3.25 to 3.50. severe financial strain on the average, middle­Although this amendments is designed to class Notre Dame student. prevent inflation of student grades, Nedeau 
"It's a very serious problem when the stated that a higher Dean's List requirement University says that they want the middle class would result in even further grade inflation. In student," said Nedeau, "but with the calendar other words, he explained, the student who change, the tuition rate hike, and the the extra would normally receive a B would instead credit hour charge, you are pricing the middle receive an A-. class student out of the market." 
"I think the economic argument is the (continued on page 11) 

Senator Smith speaks in Library 
by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 
Senator Margaret Chase Smith spoke last night on "Morality and Government" in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The former Republican senator from Maine has been visiting the Notre Dame. campus for the last week, sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson National Foundation, helping to bring American communities and the College campus closer together. 
~om~e~ting on t~e American political system, she said, "I believe It IS the best m the world. The foresight of the men who wrote our _constitution is amazing. They provided the only system which ensures freedom and liberty in the history of the world. But no system is better than the people who serve that system." 
The senator feels that a credibility gap has developed among the American people towards their government due to the adminstrator s involved in the Watergate break-in. . Senator Smith has served in politics for over thirty years, and Is the only woman to have served in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. 
Questioning of the system has brought about many negative results, ~he claimed. For example, Senator Smith pointed out the pubhc doubt that there really is a bonified energy crisis_ "T~is has ~oo often developed into violence as with the trucking stnkes, with people exploding at gas stations with miner's striki~g to bring ?ur U.S. economy to its knees, causing Amencans to question whether our system is really the best " she continued. ' 
Smith placed the responsibility for this credibility gap on "crass pragmatists," such as those involved in the Watergate tragedy, not the system itself. Speaking about those involved in the break-in, she explained, "There is a common denominator among these people, which is their 'Creed of crass Pragmatism'-the idea that the end justifies the means-so that it is acceptable to use any tactics, however immoral, to achieve a goal. These people feel the crime is not the unlawful act but getting caught." ' 
She explained further that these people justified the break-in of the office of Ellsberg's psychiatrist, saying it was the only way to get back for exposing the Pentagon Papers to the press. 
Conc~r_ning the rationalization of both parties, Smith said, "In my opm10n, both sides violated the basic concepts of the American political system and did great damage to it. The attitude that the end justifies the means, and their taking of the law into t~eir own h~nds is a venal assault on the system, on our democratic Republic and the Bill of Rights." 
S~~ continued, "In my opinion, this is nothing less that pohbcal anarchy, with every man for himself. The lack of unlawfulness has created social and political disorder." 
_T_he sen~tor spoke of the future optimistically, if every in­dlVldual will look to himself for improvement of the system. "Crass pragmatism is the result of the emphasis every one of us places on materialism. Every one of us should do some soul­searching before placing the blame on others." 
The Senator is very optimistic about today's youth and their ~~ent~al ?n improvi_ng government through active par­tl~Ipabon. I have confidence in young people they can reverse th1s trend of pragmatism by finding good solid candidates with int~grity. I would encourage people to get into politics. It is not adrrty word. Americanpoliticsisonly wttat wemakeit." 
The Senator had much praise for both the faculty and students she met at Notre Dame. She was here last year for St. Mry's Commencement, and was "delighted to return." She said of bel' visit, "I had a rewarding, challenging and enjoyable stay here th_is wee~. I am very impressed with the students and faculty; with their courtesy and the questions they asked me." 

Margaret Chase Smith: The American political system is the best In the world (Staff photo by Paul Joyce). 

2 
the observer Friday, April 26, 1974 
r 
•I 
~ 
I 
! 
warld briefs 
BERLIN <UPil -Western Allied officials said Thursday the Soviets have refused to allow Rudolf Hess to receive a visit from his family on his 80th birthday Friday because they feared demon­strations demanding the release of the former Nazi deputy Fuehrer. 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) -A federal judge declared Thursday that an intensive "stop and question" operation by police seeking the •·zebra" kilier was unconstitutional. 
DACCA, Bangladesh <UPI) -A ferryboat carrying a bus capsized in the Kumar river 65 miles south of Dacca Thursday. Thirteen passengers drowned and 65 were reported missing. The newspaper Bangladesh Observer said 12 passengers escaped by jummping into the river before the vessel sank and swiimming to safety. 
on campus taday 
12:15 pm -seminar, "genetics of immunog1o0u1ms" by dr. s. dray, u. of i.., spo. by microbia. dept. refreshments, 102 lobound lab 
2 pm -symposium, engineering centennial celebration, col. borman, charles conrad, joseph kerwin, james mcdivitt, rev. hesburgh, cee aud. 
1-4 pm.-art exhibit, genesis-elizabeth slenker, isis gallery 3 pm -baseball, vs. illinois state, 7pm-streak, tom drape on the north quad, cam pusS: 30 mass and 
dinner, bulla shed 8pm-duplicate bridge-everyone welcome, university club 
8:30 pm -d1drama, the beggar's opera by nd,smc theater, olaughlin aud. tickets call 284-4176 
saturday 10 am-eng. sent., academic procession and convocation -dr. jerpme wiesner, pres. m.i.t., cce aud. daylong symposium, smc; its christian dimension, madeleva 
memorial 1 pm -baseball, ill. st. uni. (doubleheader), 1&7 pm-symposium, on perspectives in hcarismatic renewal by 
rev. o'conner, c.s.c. spon by theo dept.), lib aud. 8 pm-festival, 1974 international festival night (entaertainment), 
wash hall 8:30pm-drama, the beggar's opera by nc theater, o'laughlin aud 8& 10 pm-cinema 74, "the earrings o madame de" spon, by cac., 
eng. aud. 
sunday 2 pm -recital, jozef wojton, baritone. spon, by music dept., little theater 1pm-symposium, on perspectives incharismatlc renewal by rev. edward o'conner, lib. aud. 7:30pm-lalawyer's nite, spon. by pre-law society, open to public lib. aud free 
2-5 pm-opening, "new nudes" by harold langlord, hammes gallery8& 10 pm-cinema 74, "the earrings of madame de", eng. aud. $1.00 
everyday 12-9 pm -art exhibt, "studetn faculty show"-all media., upper 
moreau gallery 12-5 pm -""""" ".lower moreau gallery 2pm-art exhibity "clowns on fire" all media, o'shag gallery 12-9 pm-photography "cheesecake and friends"-ann reifentrath 
and debby schrager, hammes gal. 

Seniors!! 
our Senior Class Fellow William D. Ruckelshaus will be on campus: 
Monday, April 29 
4:00 pm Lib. Aud. 
Tuesday, April 30 
Jordan Ford­
10:00 am Lib Lounge
; 609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
Ruckelshaus slated to give Senior Class Fellow address 
by Tom Kruczek Staff Reporter 
William C. Ruckelshaus, 1974 Senior Fellow, will speak on campus at the Memorial Library, on April 29 and 30. Ruckelshaus, fromer deputy U.S. attorney received national attention when he, along with attorney general Elliot Richardson, refused to fire special Watergate · prosecutor Archibald Cox, causing President Nixon to replace three top government officials. 
Ruckelshaus was selected by a vote of the senior class to serve as a visiting fellow, an honor annually accorded to a newsworthy person who has been involved in a major governmental or humanitarian action during the past year. 

Creative arts festival to feature student work 
by Joe LaFlare Staff Reporter 

The Freshman Humanities Program will hold a creative arts festival next week in the Lafortune Ballroom, announced Dr. Arthru Eaves of the English Department. Tuesday through Friday, the public will be able to observe the creative work of students in the course. It will be a multi-media program with 200-300 works of art displayed. 
The theme of the festival will be "The Individual Quest," according to Gerald Doule, one of the organizers of the festival and a student in the course. The festival will highlight two basic activities: an art exhibit continuously displayed Tuesday through Friday and several evenings of per­forming arts which will feature films, plays, and poetry readings. 
Why does the Freshman Humanities Program have an art festival? The program com­menced several years ago as an alternative to the traditional fresh­man English curriculum. It is a two semester course which deals with some of the philosophical questions of man's existence. 

According to Dr. Eaves, "Self­discovery is an important part of this course. The creative arts are a means through which we can explore ourselves and our relationships." He continued, "Our students can organize a festival like this because of the program's limited enrollment; with only 180 freshmen, the program has more latitude than the traditional freshman English 
The former he;; -:1 of the En­vironmental Protection Agency, will speak at 4 p.m.on April 29 in the Library Auditorium and the next day will speak at 10 a.m. in the Library Lounge, next to the auditoruim. Ruckelshaus will speak on April 29th on his views and outlooks on today's society, its people, its problems and its 'challenges to the youth of today. After the formal speech, questions will be invited. The next day the fromer Indiana Congressional candidate will meet and talk with interested people in a more relaxed atmosphere with coffee and donuts being 'provided. 
Ruckelshaus, a third generation Republican, began his climb to the political forefront in 1969, when he 
offering." Because of the limited enrollment, students and professors can learn from each other. 
The English Department feels that the Humanities Program is a liberating experience. According to Professor Donald Sniegowski, Director of Undergraduate Studies in English, "The whole notion of 

. imagination and creation is central to the goals of the Humanities Program. Art is but one means by which we express ourselves and search for answers to the long­standing problems which have troubled man." 
(continued on page 6) 

_ __ _ ____:_ __~======:::-:---=-­
The Playhouse 
525 N. Hill 
Live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat.' 
Happy Hour Mon-Fri 5-7 p.m. Drinks are 2 for 1 
Fri. & Sat. nite boogie 
with 
Johnny Sayles and the Independent Movement 
UnitedAirLines 
• JetFreight 
Ship Your Personal Effects Home Via 


Air Freight 
[ON CAMPUS RECEIVING STATION 
LOCATION: WNDU Parking lot WHEN: May 10 thru May 15 HOURS: 11 :00 am • 7:00 pm 
Air Freight charges will be billed to your home address 
.fpr more.info call: ..232~8241 ..... 
joined the Justice department as assistant attorney general in charge of its civil division. He negotiated with student leaders on logistics for the massive 1970 anti­war demonstration in Washington, and he quietly managed to calm a potential confrontation over a trial of Black Panthers in New Haven in 1971. 
In 1970, Nixon named Ruckelshaus to be the first head of the Environmental Protection Agency. A year ago last April, he was named again by Nixon to a new post. This time it was to rescue the FBI as its acting director, following the disastrous tenure of L. Patrick Gray. Ruckelshaus, concluded his association with the present ad­ministration, as Elliot Richard­son's top aide, before both stepped down instead of firing Archibald Cox. 
Currently Ruckelshaus is working for the Florida Apartment Association to represent owners of more than 100,000 apartment units in a fight against raising electric bills. 
Jerry Samaniego, this past year's Senior Class President, commented that, "I can only hope the seniors can make the time to meet such an outstanding in­dividual." 

,..-------------. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

------------------------------------------------~----------~~---------------­
Friday, April 26, 1974 
the observer 
3 


By Campus Ministry 
National events project planned 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
The Office of Campus Ministry is seeking students interested in a variety of national events with the intent of sponsoring a special program tentatively scheduled for Saturday, May 4. 
The four national events initiating the Campus Ministry project include National Farm worker Week, which lasts from April 28 to May 4, a National Day for Humiliation, Fasting, and Prayer on April 30, a fast spon­sored by Project Relief and Ox­fam-America on May, and Kent State National Day of Concern on May 4. 

"They come together at one time of the year and help us to focus our concern and interest outward beyond the confines of this campus or any other microcosm to matters of justice, reconciliation, and a concern for the dignity of human person," Assistant Director of Campus Ministry Sr. Jane Pitz said. 
She added that Campus Ministrry is looking for students who feel strongly about these concerns and wish to mark the occasions in a special way on campus, 
No special plans have yet been made to commemorate these dates since the Campus Ministry is hoping that students will respond and choose their own ways of organizing any such activities, Sr. Pitz noted. 
Sr. Pitz continued to explain the significance of the national hap­pinings. The National Farm Worker Week "will focus on what is really going on" with such groups as the grape harvesters, she said. 

The lastweekin April is the big struggle week of the year, when contracts are signed and har­vesting in many states begins, Sr. Pitz added. 
The April 30 National Day for Humiliation, Fasting, and Prayer was proposed by Oregon Senator Mark Hatfield who said, "National repentence opens the door for thoughtful re-examination of national priorities." The occasion will probably occur without an official proclamation by Congress because of the current excite-ment in the House of Representatives about the impeachment issue, Sr. Pitz noted. 
The May 1 "Fast to Save a 
International Festival set for Washington Hall tonight 
by Jane Thornton Staff Reporter 
Sixty-five international students representing 11 foreign countries will perform in the . fourth Annual International Festival tomorrow night at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free. 
Questions 


sent to the President 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The 
House Judiciary Committee will send written questions to President Nixon as part of its impeachment investigation to determine if criminal fraud was committed in preparation of his income taxes. 
Committee Counsel John Doar said Thursday the com­mittee will independently inves­tigate the fraud question in the Nixon tax returns, especially the deduction for the donation of his vice presidential papers. 
The Internal Revenue Service and thhe jooint congressional tax committee investigated Nixon's 1969-1972 tax returns and both concluded that the President owed about $430 ooo plus interest. Nixon said' he would pay tha amount. 

The cultural panorama, spon­sored by the International Student Organization of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, honors the 200 plus host families of international students. Junior chemistry major Julio Baez, a Puerto Rican, is chairman of the Festival Committee. 
A Chinese opera, Siamese; dances, American folklore, Latin American music, and Indian folk songs are among the native festivities to be featured during the performance. All are invited to the reception following in La For­tuneBallroom. Fr. Dan O'Neil, C.S.C., In­ternational student advisor, feels the most significant aspect is "the intercultural and interpersonal exchanges." 
"If all Chinese, Americans, Africans, Indians, etc. worked together like this all the time," he explained, "it would be a better world." 

"It is as this level of person to person," O'Neil continued, "of individual interchange in grass roots communities, that the rhetoric of brotherhood, peace and understanding becomes a reality." 
The 200 host families being honored are members of the Michiana International Hospitality Program. Notre Dame's Office of International Student Affairs organized the group as it became evident that the rapidly increasing foreign student population had great potential for community 4nteraction The Office also felt that foreign students needed aid in adjusting to the new en­vironment. 
FE&I~L 
1974 
WASHINGTON HALL 
8:00 pm, Saturday, April 27 
International Students Organization Notre Dam~-St. Mary's ADMISSION FREE 
People" has been given previous publicity through the Observer. On that day, students are urged to forfeit one or more of their meals and donate their money to help six to ten million starving people in drought-stricken Africa . 
The May 4 National Day of Concern commemorates the fourth anniversary of the death of four Kent State students at the hands of the Ohio National Guard. Sr. Pitz observed that this issue has resurfaced once again due to the resumption of court inquiries into
* SMC COFFEEHOUSE* 
Tonight! 
Therese Bush SLOW 
Mary Liebscher Bob Thomas 
Charlie Shreck Rick Walters 
beneath caf. 
root beer floats 9 -1 lOc 


The Observer is now taking applications for· 
Assistant Advertising Manager 
This is a paid position 5 days per week 7 hours per day excellent position for wife of student inform ation call 7 471 between 10 & 5 
IHf ';Ji0H RllfWfiY COMPANY DETROIT MICHIGAN •8116 
the case. 
Students, faculty members, or administrators with suggestions for possible activities, requests for more information, and interests in participationg in the activities should contact Fr. Bill Toohey at 6536 or 6373, Fr. Tom Stella at 6536, 7800, or8172, Fr. Tom McNally at 8521, Br. Joe McTaggart at 7525, or Sr. Pitz at 7431 during this weekend. 
Beginning Monday, those in­terested may contact Rosemary Johnson at the Campus Ministry 
Host families are of various races, creeds, colors, and economic strata. Through the Hospitality Program interested students are assigned a host family during their stay. 
The Hospitality Program also offers picnics, receptions, Christmas parties and a 'wives group' through which wives of international students share their culture with American wives. 
International students, on the other hand, often address church groups, schools, civic clubs and organizations, tutor migrant workers and also act as translators and interpreters. 






Love tap. 
From one beer lover to another. 
~; .. 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, April 26, 1974
the observer
4 
Storage for summer is doubtful 
valuable items.
Mike Rizzo In previous years the Old Staff Reporter 
Fieldhouse was utilized for storage 
Summer storage of students belongings may be unavailable this year stated Ri~h~rd Golde~, student union commissiOner, and If there is a storage program it is likely to be limited to strictly non purposes but this summer th_e. ~rt department will use the facthbes for the summer art program. The student union has researched various alternative storage possibilities but none appears promising at the present. 
' 
f 
r 
~ 
r 
Alcohol position 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
Speaking last night in the Keenan-Stanford chapel SBP Pat McLaughlin and law student Chuck Nau explained the position students and hall staffs are in because of the new Indiana alcohol decision. Nau and McLaughlin proposed a concentrated student effort to elect legislators who would vote to reduce the drinking age. 
Nau stated that the Indiana case held, at least as the University has to interpret it to protect itself, that any adult who knew about a minor drinking could be held legally liable. "This puts the hall staffs in a very difficult position. If you let them know you are drinking thev 
Pell•candeath 
a mystery 
SPEEGLEVILLE, Tex. <UPI) 
On Saturday afternoon, April 13, in two different places in Texas, giant white pelicans fell from the sky to their deaths. 
"They looked like whitecaps falling from the sky," said Leo Lyons who saw 90 of the majestic birds dashed on the waters of Lake Waco. 
The mystery of the pelicans has not been solved. It may never be. But scientists have theories. 
1. 
The birds, some of which have a 9-foot wingspan, may have been caught in a tornado. A twister was seen in the Lake Waco area the day it rained pelicans. 

2. 
The birds may have had their equilibrium upset by a loud noise, like a massive roll of thunder. There were no reports of tornadoes in Cranfills Gap, where 33 other pelicans fell tha• day, but thunderstorms were roc; 'Tling the area. 


The Student Union conducted a warehouse for storage was one of questionnaire survey to determine the first possibilities studied, but the approximate volume of storage none oftheexisting warehouses have footage necessary for student the space or the desire to store the needs. The response to the survey Notre Dame items. Fr. James L. was excellent and the commission Riehle, assistant vice-president of is aware of the space required for student affairs, directed the each hall if storage is eventually warehouse research, looking for a conducted on a residence basis. building with approximately 10,000 
The use of an independent square feet of space to devote to 
students' belongings. No building 
was contracted for the taks 
although there is still a possibility
•nedthat~~ old Studebaker plant may




expIa1 
. will have to do something or face The SBP agreed ~tth Nau th~t possible suit." the hall staffs were m a very dif-
Nau, an R.A. in Keenan, went on ficutult position and asked to propose that students register students to ~ooper~te with them. and vote in the Indiana primary on "'N_e are. trymg t? ftgure out a way May 7. "We can set up a simple of msurmg conststent enforcemnt door-to-door registration am?ng ~ails with?ut having the procedure with the help of the Umverstty pubhcly condone 
drinking," he said. "I would alsoBrandemas and Bayh campaigns. 
like to ask anyone who can work onStudent government can make up this, especially if they are stayinga list of candidates who will vote to over the summer, to contactlower the drinking age. Then vote student government."
that list." 
·>:f?':;:;:;}'>'::::::; :;}jj!!

Nau agreed that students might be voting for candidates who were in other ways not what they wanted but said that "this drinking thing is really the only Indiana problem that affects you, and it can also really hurt your University." He also suggested getting together with other universities in the state on the program. 
McLaughlin told the audience 
that he had already gotten legal advice on the decision from the law school and had contacted Ball State, Purdue, and IU as well as the Bayh campaign. "We have talked to two of the eight can­didates running in South Bend and both are for lowering the age, though not strongly so." The legislators from the southern part of the state were more con-Mclaughlinservative, he said. 

IWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
EUROPE! 
Transatlantic fli_ghts. Leave from most maior cities, rail
I~~~~~·g'f~u~:~tals, plane and I 
§ 5 

i For your FREE trip planner ~ §5 contact your i$ i KLM campus representative, i
= = 

a SHAWNKELLY 233-4818 s
I i
= 
~ 


Thursday, May 2 at 8:00 
Tickets are $6.00 and $4.00 NOW ON SALE at the ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office. 
WITH THE GAP BAND 
'_•t.l .,_ ..•., 
-------~--­
L----.-.--------------·-·------·-•-_r 
be utilized for the summer months. 
With only three weeks of school remaining, the lack is approaching a critical stage and Golden noted,
"The situation appears very bleak." If no other facilities offer themselves the commission is researching the possibility of using individual halls to store returningresidents' items 
Presently it is ~gainst University policy to store materials in the dormitiores over the summer months. The university would incur no insurance liability in such case, but the prohibition stems from maintenance problem such storage would create. 
If the halls were utilized for summer storage only non valuable items would be permitted. Although the fieldhouse stored stereos and other valuables, in a hall there would be an over­whelming risk of thievery or destruction stated Golden. 
There exists the possibility that no facilities will be found since all plans at this point are extremely tentative and there remain just over two weeks to resolve the difficulty. In the event that the university can find no ac­comodations, Golden noted that one private warehouse owner, Mrs. Coop:er, has a small building which she devotes to the storage of student belongings. 


~~ 
Specially Priced One Week Only 


Now$45°0 
Mother's center stone, $5. Children's $3. each 

Now$4950 
Fourteen-karat gold mountinlls to be set with the bithstonas of children or grandchildren. Prices given are for syn­thetic stones. Genuine stones are avail­able and priced according to the gem. Please allow 10 diys for delivery. Usa one of our own charge plans, or Master Charge/BankAmericard. 
Enlarged for detail. 

Friday, April 26, 1974 the observer 
In three areas 
•

lndustrial chloride IS linked to cancer 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A research group told the govern­ment Thursday there is a "fearful possibility" that people living in at least three industrial areas of the nation are being exposed to airborne doses of vinyl chloride, a chemical linked to liver cancer. 
The Center for Science in the Public Interest urged the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have state agencies make measurements near factoties immediately to determine the extent of the hazard. 
"We regard this as a potentially serious public health problem," it said, "and worthy of immediate investigation. Our research indicates that certain towns and cities may be seriously affected by vinyl chloride pollution." 
It singled out the Houston, Tex., area, southern Louisiana and western Kentucky as the three prime areas where factories produce &I much vinyl chloride that smokestacks are venting the chemical. High humidity and other climatic conditions in those regions, it added, could make the situation worse. 
It also said there may be a similar problem in the Paines­ville, Ohio, area and around Long Beach, Calif. 
The center said it had learned that EPA's own meas­urements showed 0.37 parts per million vinyl chloride along Route 225 in Pasadena, Tex., "in the heart of the largest vinyl chloride producing region in the United States." 
It calculated that at the end of each batch of polyvinyl chloride made in a 10,000-gallon reactor there is a stack emission of 9,000 grams of vinyl te enough to be downwind 100 meters from the emission would be exposed to 200 parts per million," it added. 
Interim government rules limit in-plant exp<:Sure of vinyl chloride to 50 parts per million. 
"Under adverse climatic con­ditions which commonly occur in the three areas...the buildup 



Science Fair scheduled 
by Joel Burian Staff Reporter 
Future scientific giants of the world will be present together, as the 25th International Science and Engineering Fair gets under way at the ACC beginning May 5 and continuing through May 10. 
The fair makes its first ap­pearance on a university campus since its beginning 25 years ago. Dr. Emil Hofman, Freshman Year of Studies and chemistry Professor is director for this year's fair. He stated that "this vear's fair will be a learning experience indeed, not only from a scientific viewpoint, but also a learning experience in which there is an interaction among the competiitors, the Notre Dame scientific community, and the Notre Dame students." 
The fair brings in approximately 400 high school students from 45 states and 6 foreign countries. They will be competing for cash prizes and trips to world science fairs and expositions. Four con­testants will be selected to attend the Nobel Prize ceremonies in Stockholm and witness one of the world's most honorable events. 
The competitors, in order to qualify for the ISEF, must face competition in their own high schools, plus competition in local <~reas. Two winners from the regional competition then advance the international fair. 
When the competitors gather for 
the event, they will face . the 
scrutiny of 500 judges checking for 

Dr. Emil T. Hofman~ Tbis year's fair will be a learning experience. 
every little detail in their projects. 
.. the judges come from all over the world. Some of the judges themselves were competitors in the fair in its earlier days. 
In addition to the competitors and judges, 100 members of the press from the United States and abroad will cover this event and share with their readers the cumulative scientific knowledge of 
this prestigious event.  
The Notre Dame student  coor­ 
dinators  will  be  involved  with  
hospitality during the fair.  They  

will arrange activities such as special lectures, field trips, a campus-wide tour, and a picnic on the shore of Lake Michigan. However, help is needed and would be greatly appreciated. Hofmen stated, "the assistance is minimal, only a few hours, but much en­
joument can come from the ex-
NOW RENTING 
c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:M + SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM u APARTMENTS 
s 
+ AIR CONDITIONING 
+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 

+ 
REFRIGERATOR

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 


v 
I +<TENNIS COURT 
E 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM 
CAMPUS! 

"APARTMENTS WITH
w 
THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south bend· 
perience." Applications are available in the Freshman Year Office. 
The students, faculty and the public are cordially invited to visit the fair, which will be open to them on Thursday May 9, from 9a.m. to 10 p.m. and again on Friday May 10, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
of dangerous concentrations in densely populated areas is a fearful possibility," the center told EPA. 
Just Wednesday EPA issued an emergency order banning the. sale of 28 aero&~l pesticide products in which vinyl chloride was used as a propellant. The Food and Drug Administration has moved against . hair sprays in which the industrial chemi­cal was used. 
Vinyl chloride has been linked to 12 cases of a rare liver cancer. The victims were workers in factories where the widely used industrial chemical was being processed. 

The center, a privately and foundation-financed research group, said the areas with heavy concentrations of vinyl chloride or polyvinyl chloride production are Houston, Deer Park, Pasadena, Oyster Creek and Texas City, all in Texas; Baton Rouge, Plaquemine and Geismar, all in Louisiana; and Calvert City, Ky. 


SUNDAY MASSES 
(Main Church) 
5:15 pm Sat Fr. Robert Griffin C.S.C. 
9:30 am Sun Fr. Edward Malloy C.S.C. 
10:45 am Sun Fr. Richard Rutherford C.S.C. 
12:15 pm Sun Fr. Thomas Stella 4:30pm Sun Evensong-Lady Chapel 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW 'l18fl·:FIJ.E 
ALL SEATS RESERVED sp '!j• s4• 
Explore beneath the surface. You'll discover 
a whole shop of organic foods. The bounty 
of Mother Earth. Real honey. Grains. 
Unadulterated and healthy foods. Stored for you in this underground domain. 
Featuring Dannon Yogurt 
8 OZ. StZE 
Plain 31 cents Vanilla 31 cents Fruit Flavors 33 cents 



I 


Shop: Monday-Saturday 10-9 Sunday 11-7 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery 

LONDON. PARIS, ANTWERP, ROTIERDAM, SYDNEY. '!'':'·~Y'~"':"'':.· 
' M',""'''"' "" . ·VANCOUVER; NEW·YORK, ·BOSTON:· MIAMI:·PHIUORPHtA: HOUSTON, DALLAS. PHOENIX. SAN FRANCISCO. SFATTI_ 



the observer Friday, April 26, 1974
6 
Humanities Program explains it's purpose 
(continued from page 2) 
What exactly is this novel ap­proach to a freshman English course? As the English Depart­ment explains it, "In its actual operation, the Humanities Seminar brings together a group of 
total strangers, asks them to read together a series of books in which other men meet, struggle with and live these questions, to explore critically and share their responses to this experience and thus gradually to allow these questions to become personal and mutual questions." 
"Its main purpose is to introducef the students to or to make them mnre ::~w::~re of the fundamental 
questions about man, about themselves. In succeeding years of education, formal or informal, these question'> can be refined, lived, perhaps answered sometimes. But the course itself is meant only to bring the student to articulate ~the question for himself and others." 
Is the program successful in this purpose? Gerald Doyle describes his experience in the course, "Humanities Seminar is a discussion and writing course which leads one to question, and hopefully to discover himself. The problems of man which seem to have no answer are articulated in a broad scope. In keeping with the goals of the course, then it has been successful. 
When discussed under the qualified guidance of the Fresh­man Humanities professors, these questions are not premature for a college freshman since, "all ::~£ us must face these questions. Th€. earlier a student raises them, the more creative his search for an­swers will be." Since the program is interdisciplinary by nature, the student is able to assimilate what 
he has learned into future courses. -"This is a student-initiated, student-run festival," explained Dr. Eaves. "The goal of the 'Freshman Humanities Program is to synthesize and integrate 
Junior Parents Weekend 
to highlight next year 
by Sue Divita Staff Reporter 
Junior Class President, Augie Grace named Junior Parents Weekend as one of the classes' biggest events planned for the upcoming year. The weekend's activities are under the direction of Patrick Boyle, Chairman of Junior Parents Weekend. 
Boyle says the committee hasn't picked a date for the weekend, but they are looking for some time in February when there is a heme basketball or hockey game, or both. "So far, not only Junior Parents Weekend, but the whole program for juniors, looks good next year," says Boyle. "We,ve already set up a good foundation on which to work next year. We're pretty well-organized for Junior Parents Weekend, and we've got as many people as possible working on it." 
Grace says the first event the juniors will sponsor first semester will be a bus trip to the Nor­thwestern game. The trip will leave early Saturday on charter buses and will offer about one hundred tickets. Grace said the tickets will go on sale to the juniors as soon as students get back to school in the fall. and after a few weeks, remaining tickets will be sold to anyone. ­
Grace stated the trip "should be a good way to start the year off, both socially and athletically.'' 
Later in the first semester will be a Junior Class Formal, co­chaired by Sue Carnanci and Betsy Kall. The event, according to Boyle, is going to take a lot of work , and the chairwomen are looking for a lot of volunteers. The formal will be preferably off-campus,and hotel and banquet facilities are being sought to "make it a little 
classier," Boyle comments. 
Other activities the junior class will be involved in a film series during the day that o''f­campus students could go tol If they find a large enough selection of films, Grace says, the movies could be held in LaFortune twice a week. The junior class is also going to work with the off-campus students 
to co-ordinate activities. 
Monday there will be a meeting of officers and chairmen of the various activities the junior class will sponsor for next year. Greg Erickson, former Junior Class President will have a report to help the current officers with this year's Junior Parents Weekend. Grace hopes that knowledge of he upcoming activities for juniors will make them aware of what's going on and will encourage them to participate. 
Rebels overthrow Caetano 
LISBON (UPI) Rebel armed forces overthrew Premi­er Marcelo Caetano Thursday, using cannons and tanks to oust Caetano's dicta torial regime in protest against the African wars of the wcrld's last major colonial power. 
Isolated resistence continued. 
Caetano, 67, harrled over the government to General Antonio de Spinola, a liberal-minded war hero who was fired by Caetano for saying the country could not win its 13-year battle against African liberation movements. 
C'aetano surrendered to lead­ers of the coup at his stronghold in the national police headquaters, 12 hrurs after the rebels sent a column of tanks into the heart of Lisbon and announced they had seized control of the cot11try. 
''The hour of freedom has arrived," the rebels told the nation over radio and televi­sion. 
The rebels said a military junta would rule the country until free elections are held. They announced a program of democratic reforms. 
Thousands of jubilant Lisbon residents gathered around the police headquaters building, shouting "Freedom, freedom!" and "Victory, victory!" when Spinola arrived to take over the reins of power. 
them-
The rebels, calling selves the Armed 
Forces
pocketsMovement, said several of resistance still existed in porters and expected their Lisbon, including a stronghold surrender soon. where President Americo Hours after the takeover, Thomaz and several other police firing machine guns members of the Caetano hours mowed down a group of cabinet were holding out. joyful demonstrators celebrat-
The rebels said they had ing the coup in front of the s""u:.:.r..::.r"'"ou=nd=-e=-d=--=C:...:a.:..:e:...:t.:....an_o_'_s_l_a_s_t_s_u.=..p_---=S'-"e-"'c=-ur:...:i"'t..._y-"p""o~li ce h eadq uarters. 
Short Montessori Training Program 
Just 2 weeks July 8-20 in Chicago learn how to be effective with children. Write: MAC-0, 1010 W. Chico., 


nice place 
fo begin your weekend 
Mass & . Dinner Spm Every Friday 
11.,..:...____---".._________:..._____~-----=::........-.J 
man's knowledge of man. The festival is one means to ac­complish this end." 
For students enrolled in the course, there will be a dance on Tuesday night to "kick-off" the festival. The festival resumes Wednesday night at 8:30 with the exhibition and performances open to the public. It continues through Friday night. 
Dr. Eaves urges all those who can to attend. "It will be an experience for all involved. Just come and enjoy yourself, while learning at the same time." 

St. Mary's hires Westler as head of writing dept. 
Pattie Cooney St. Mary's Editor 
Dr. Max Westler, currently a professor at Northwestern University, has been hired by St. Mary's College, to head the English Writing Department. 
Starting in August, Westler will be teaching four courses: Language and Literature, Modern British and American Poetry, Creative Writing and Freshman Language and Literature. Westler is also interested in teaching some kind of course concerning film. Presently, at Northwestern he is teaching a Humanitites course with eight hundred students in it. 
"His recommendations are tops. Aside form being intelligent, Dr. Westler seems like a fun person and I think the students will enjoy him." commented Sr. Jean Kiene, Chairman of the English Department. In addition Westler has a special interest in poetry and is publishing a volume this sum­mer. 

Samuel Hazo, author of My Sons In God and director of the In­ternational Poetry Forum in Pittsburgh, is also interested in helping to strengthen the writing department. Hazo will be bringing writers to lecture for the summer session. 
Westler plans to give a poetry reading on Wednesday May 1. All students are invited to attend. Time and place to be announced. 
ISOLATED? 
+ 
There is a college that believes human reason can discover truth. 

+ 
There is a college that believes in true Catholic principles. 

+ 
There is a college where students take real joy in studying. 

+ 
There is a college that emphasizes the im­


portance of reasoned discussion. That college is Thomas Aquinas College. A tutor from Thomas Aquinas College will be at the Morris Inn Sunday and Monday to discuss principles of true Catholic education with Notre Dame students. Inquire at desk. 

Also-starring CHARLOffi RAMPLING SARA KESTELMAN And JOHN ALDERTON ~ 
...,..11, PANAVISION' PRINTSBYD£cUX[' Lii!IJ I I 1
_R_-;~~~~~­

Friday, April 26, 1974 the observer 
Letters Ta A Lanely Gad 

a world too beautiful this year 
reverend rabert rJriffin 


Some one of these days, the phone call will be made, the letter delivered, or the order given, and I will hear that April is the month for me to say a permanent goodbye to the forsythia, the hyacinth, and the magnolias of Notre Dame. In that poignant year, Duty will have whispered low: "Thou must!", and as a son of the Church, the priest will reply, "I can." Then, though a thousand gardens burst into flower upon the quads, I know that the tulips of April will not bloom again for me on this campus. 
Long have I known a glory in it all, But never knew I this; Here such a passion is As stretcheth me apart, -Lord, I do fear Thou'st made the world too beautiful this year ... " 
I hope that the springtime of my goodbye year will not be too beautiful. Selfishly, I will wish it to be a season of late frosts and winter kill, so that the neutral tones of gray and brown will linger on the shrubs and earth, and the green moods of April cannot arrive until the end of May, long after Darby O'Gill and I have been sighted, carrying travel packs, as hitch hikers along the In­diana turnpike. I fear the April that seems to beautiful; in such a year, I could never say goodbye at all. In place of adieux, there would only be rumors of a man and his mighty mutt last seen around the train yards, hopping a morning freight to Detroit. 
But even in a year of April postponed to Maytime, there would still be the beauty of children, met at Mass, to say goodbye to; and children are charmers for all seasons. For four years now, I have welcomed them to the Urchins' Chapel. At Communion time, I have loved the sight of them gathered for Jesus-bread at the Mass celebrant's stump, a remnant from the Giving Tree. I have watched the gamins growing into moppets, and the moppets maturing into munchkins; and the mun-
MUSIC 
With The Golden Scarab, Ray Manzarek shows he can write a couple of good tunes, a few passable ones, a lot of downright silly lyrics, and with effort and echo chamber, make his voice sound a hell of a lot like Jim Morrison's. 
But most importantly, he demonstrates that he has yet to progress beyond the secondary role of keyboardist-in-a-group that he has held for so long. 
This is not to say the music of Scarab is worthless, but that it is merely unexciting. Unlike his earlier work with the Doors, his present dominance over the group of fairly impressive muscians he has assembled weakens already ratheruninspiringsongs. The most obvious proof of this is that the best song on the album1 "'Downbound Train," was not written by Manzarek. 
But one thing that he does manage to uphold is his reputation for keyboard work. Aside from Jim Morrison's voice and stage act, Manzarek was the Doors, providing a jazzy keyboard background from the ex­citing organ in "Light My Fire" to the cool electric piano in "Riders on the Storm." This aspect of the man isn't lost as he continues in the same vein on tack piano on "Downbound Train" and electric piano on "Solar Boat," and even tries something new in a moog on "The Moorish Idol." 
What ultimately destroys the album's ambitions, then, are the pretensions it tries to pass off. Manzarek describes its theme as that of a long acid trip. Well, fine, if that's what he's into. But translating his experiences into mumblings about "All of life is sunlight, Osiris is the night, Aten of the daylight, Bring your golden life" only negates al).y terms of relating to the im­mediate, something that the Doors placed paramount in their music. 
chkino;, too soon grown up, giving place to fledgling urchins; and the older urchins brothering younger moppets, and older moppets sistering younger urchins. Some urchins and moppets I know were not even born four years ago. Now they have been born, and I have baptized them as Christ­urchins and Christ-moppets, and many have already appeared at the Mass celebrant's tree stump, asking to be fed with the Jesus­bread. They are a chief charm of a world that is always April, with a beauty that, if lost, would break the heart. "Lord, I do fear Thou'st made the children too beautiful this year." Even when they wiggle, they are beautiful; because of them, wiggling is a special kind of grace. If I should see them pinch and scream and . kick and mess, 
on Sundays and weekdays in the Keenan­Stanford chapel, have been times and places where a poor, white trash Christian like me comes to a heart­to-heart encounter with the children of the Lonely God. There have been nights and days on 42nd street, or in East Side bars, where I have known the shame of being tempted; but I have, at the same time, understood my responsibilities in love and in justice to a congregation of students who, week after week, reverence a ministry I have assumed in Christ's name. Despite failures sometimes grievous, shall I not honor a priesthood that others honor in me? For seven years, the love of students a.t Mass-and in friendships that have grown out of the Mass, or in friendships 
Lord, I do fear Thou'st made the world too beautiful this year... 
saying goodbye to them would still be April's beauty bringing me to tears, because there is more springtime in them than there is in jonquils. 
Then there are those other Masses where, for seven years now, I have seen students gather in my chapel on Sunday afternoons. Through them, I know that worship is not just an affair of cathedral choirs, and faith is more fleshly than a bishop's creed. There must be a place in the world where a priest's love is anchored, a group to whom his ministry belongs. There must be a Nazareth where his faith is at home, a community where his heart finds peace. For seven years n1w, the afternoon Masses, having nothing to do with the Mass-has given me a reality as a Christian, an identity as a priest-as though, indeed, it were God's creative love I am feeling through them; and in all the ways possible to human virtue, I will be 
·loyal to those students. "Lord, I do fear Thou'st made people too beautiful this 
. year." In the year I must say goodbye to the Keenan Chapel Christians, April could be a certain kind of death. 
Out on the April lawns, the students of my own beloved Keenan are sailing frisbees through the air. I have seen frisbees commanded more skillfully; in Washington Square Park, for example, there are boys who skim frisbees as gracefully as though they were launching birds to ride the wind. 
' In mid-air, the frisbee suddenly changes direction as though there were wings to guide it homeward to the roost of a waiting hand. The frisbees on the Keenan quad are as much of a reminder of birds as I need; and for the rest of my life, the movement of birds or frisbees will remind me of barefoot kids playing with sky-borne toys outside my window in a Notre Dame springtime. "0 Lord, I do fear Thou'st made the flight of frisbees too beautiful this year." Frisbees remembered could make it perilous to look at doves. There is a beauty greater than April's that binds me to this campus. I think of the gentle Sister living in the Students' Infirmary who once cared for me when I was sick. Seeing her is to be sur­prised by joy, as when a walker unex­pectedly meets the purple and perfume of the spring lilac. There are friends one learns to recognize after seven years; they make the Huddle, the dining halls, the library, the offices and the church into comfortable places where one feels at home. ' There are the priests and brothers of Holy Cross whom one meets them as family in familiar spots, or whom one visits with reverence in the place of their eternal peace in the Community cemetery. 
0 World, I cannot hold thee close enough! Thy winds, thy wide grey skies! Thy mists, that roll and rise! Thy woods, this day, that ache and sag And all but cry with colour! ..... World, World, I cannot get thee close enough! 
There is an intensity to April that gives us moods too much to bear. Beauty born again reminds us of the glory of our springtimes lost. There is no joy that we can hold we will not sometime lose again. 
the good and the bad of it 
reviews by joseph abel/ 
The Golden Scarab 
Ray Manzarek 
Mercury SRM-1-703 
List $5.98 

And these silly lyrics could even be ignored if much of the music wasn't tailored to fit them, including all kinds of eastern instruments to create a "mood." 
Manzarek has a lot of potential, as songs like "Downbound Train," "The Solar Boat," and "The Moorish Idol" show, but until he starts to go beyond ego trips and fascinations (i.e., with ancient cultures) in his music, his albums will be little more than pretentious flops. Only his already­established keyboard skill saved this one. 
Buzzard! is the fourth outing for this heavy metal British band, this time under the wing of Rolling Stone Bill Wyman, though you wouldn't know it from record company promotions. The first two albums were released in the late 60's and just sorta floundered around, mainly because the band had managerial problems. The third, released last fall and entitled All Right On the Night, was a collection of so-so rock and rock and roll tunes and went about as far as the first two. 
Perhaps that's the reason this one was released so soon after the last one, in hopes of perking up sales of both. It might just do it. 
Buzzard! is easily many cuts above the last album. The music is a tighter, more controlled thing. The guitar solos are more imaginative. The rhythm is more solid. But most importantly, the group is starting to show something that is paramount to suc­cess: a distinct identity. 
All Right On the Night displayed a band that was trying to imitate the rhythm and blues format so successful with other heavy metal groups like Led Zeppelin and the Stones. As mentioned above, it was passable, but nothing outstanding. With Buzzard!, the band seems more relaxed, more natural, more at home. There are still the conscious attmepts at imitation (such as several Stones-type licks and a Uriah Heep­type vocal), but on the whole, the band is starting to come into its own. 
And what's that? Controlled excitement comparable to Zeppelin and about two notches below the Stones. It's a sound that draws on the past <its own and the past of rock), and pushes it forward just a bit. 
Buzzard! is not the best album of rock and rock and roll ever produced. It's not even close. But what it is, is a damned good collection of exciting music from a band that's going places. 
Buzzard! Tucky Buzzard Passport PPS 98001 List $6.98 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  NEWS:  283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471  
Tom Drape  
Editor-in-Chief  
AnnMcCarry  Marlene Zloza  
Editorial Editor  Managing Editor  
Lee Gentine  Terry Keeney  John Kloos  
Business Manager  News Editor  Advertising Manager  
April 26, 1974  

It Must Be 
Student input. Regardless of how often it must be repeated, it simply has to be. 
But again today, with the release of the administration's Academic Code proposals, the feelings of students about the issues concerning their very existence-academics at Notre Dame­were absent. There is no excuse for that omission. 
The extended debate over the Academic Calendar should have been proof enough of student sincerity in the desire for the simple opportunity to contribute their reasonable views­initially. For not only is initial student input a right, but a responsibility which the administration, in particular the Provost and College Deans, can no longer continue to ignore. 
The proposed changes to the Academic Code were prepared by the ad­ministration and presented to the Executive Board of the Academic Council by Provost Fr. Burtch a ell, the Thursday beginning Easter break. 
The sole student representative, Chris 
Nedeau, was not contacted about the 
meeting until that morning. At that time, 
he was presented the proposals. Nedeau 
had been totally unaware of any proposed 
changes to be made, and was told by 
Burtchaell that the proposals presented 
were a simple "codification" and hence 
of little importance to students. 
What must it take to convince our 
administrators that these issues are of 
grave importance to us as students? No 
demand is being made for an equal power 
of decision or veto but only for an avenue 
to express student viewpoints at the 
outset to an administrator from a student 
or vice-versa. Perhaps the ad­
ministration does not feel a need for such 
communication. If so, then any claim to 
educational equity between the 
University and its students is a falsehood. 
The proposals made in the codification of academic regulations, in themselves, provide little if any equity to the students as a result. 
For instance, the proposal to add an additional fee for every credit hour over 17 in Arts and Letters and Engineering may have an ec-onomic basis, taking into account needed increases in faculty salaries and rising educational costs. Yet a lack of expressed student sentiment regarding such a basis adds little to such rationale, in addition to the fact that it hits the AL student hardest with the cut­off at 17-rather than 18--hours because a majority of Arts and Letters courses are three credit hours. 
The proposed change of raising Dean's List from 3.25 to 3.50 average is another example that the difference of student input could have made. Supposedly suggested to help curb grade inflation, the proposal will certainly add to that inflation. What is essentially now an A,B student will become an A,A-student since the competition will remain the same with only the standards being in­creased. As Nedeau stated last night, the proposal will only add to a "false stan­dard of excellence" at Notre Dame. 
Thus the only alternative left to students is to retaliate on the rebound. The priorities which Nedeau, McLaughlin, Bob Howl of the HPC, Judy Offerly, Engineering representative, and John Mazza, AL representative, have set are reasonable and straightforward. Should the Administrators and Academic Council members accept them as such, then a controversy similar to that over the calendar can be avaoided. 
If not, and without threat, the input of students will be forced through other alternatives. Reasonableness on the part of all is the key. 
-Tom Drape 
D I iphant_------------~ 

Dpinian 

Ridiculous the waste sad time 
;ames f. pauer 
Notwithstanding F. Scott Fitzgerald's generous concession that "Everyone's youth is a dream, a form of chemical madness," I yet feel obliged to wriggle out ofmyown senioryear possum hollow to respond to Maria Gallagher's ominous lucuvratioms (Observer, April 23 >. As a graduating senior, I find more hopeful points to ponder 
Than time counted by anxious worried women .. Lying awake, 
calculating the future, .. Trying to unweave, unwind, unravel. .And 
piece together the past and the future, .. Between midnight and 
dawn. when the past is .. all deception, .. The future futureless, 
before the morning watch .. When time stops and time is never 
ending; The Dry Salvages, 11. 39-45. 

Well, Where is there an end of it, the soundless wailing? Ibid., 49 
Pressing lidless eyes at Nickies may make one hold on tight but the door swings outward, presenting the possibility of having a couple feelers down at Sweeney's or even Cliff's (the clean well-lighted place?). Or is it safer to put a coin in the juke box and just listen 
... were just seasons out of time... . 
You see, 

Time present and time past. . Are both perhaps present in time 
future .. And time future contained in time past...If all time is 
Pternally present.. All time is unredeemable... What might have 
beeen is an abstraction .. Remining a perpetual possibility .. Only in 
a world of speculation... What might have been and what has 
bee .. Point to one end, which is always present. 
Burnt Norton 11.1-10 

How 'bout that Tieresias? But you're right about the calendar. May 19 is fast upon us. Pardon my dust on your-rose leaves, but I find it somewhat difficult to have misgivings (and nature has not made me a candidate for Ms. Givings) since I haven't yet given the future anything except my best efforts in the present, and some careful thought. I do not think my own twenty-two years un­thinkable. 
When time is withdrawn, consider the future .. And the past with an equal mind. The Dry Salvages 11.153-4 
In fact, I might even be able to have what shall be extant thoughts on reaching the age of three-andtwenty. Perhaps all 
My words echo thus in your (idle) mind Burnt Norton 11.14-15 
Rx Eliot, T.S., Four Quartets. New York; Harcourt Brace and World, Inc., A Harvest Book, $1.25. Sorry, Maria, but with all due empathy I would rather wait for the early owl than follow the deception of the thrush. 
... to make an end is to make a beginning Little Gidding, 1.215. 
Indeed. Indeed. Indeed. 

IIIIUHIJIRI11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111HIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllilllllll"llll 
---the observer-----------------------­
Night Editor: Bill Brink 

Assistant Night Editor: Andy Praschak 
Layout: Terry Keeney, AI Rutherford 
Copy Reader: Pat Hanifin, Greg Rowinski 
Day Editors: Val Zurblis, George Belich 
Features: JR Baker 

Editorials: Ann McCarr~ Tom Drape 
Sports: Greg Corgan, Vic Dorr 
Pictures: Albert D'Antonio 

Measles: Chris Smith (say Iimburger, Chris) 
Typists: Gary Allletta, Karen Hinks, Tom Menk 
Compugraphic Operator: Joe Abell 
Controller of the Night: Joe Abell 

----~-~ 
Friday, April 26, 1974 the observer 
9 
... 

ivan mestrovic: the maestro 
by janet c:Jenefe 


his clay-smeared smock, tattered blackIvan Mestrovic famed Croatian sculptor beret, and with the perpetual Pall Malland professor at Notre Dame until his death cigarette between his lips. He taught ain 1972 will be honored at a special group of eight specially selected students inexhibiti~n beginning Sunday, April 28 at the his studio behind O'Shaughnessy Hall, builtUniversity Art Gallery. Professor Dean for him.
Porter curator of the gallery, stresses that Mestrovic folowed a simple philoisophy­this wih be particularly exciting show, and "work." And so he worked, at a pace that one that is very important to Notre Dam~. 
was exhausting-for his students.
The exhibition opens at 2:00 p.m. this Mestrovic said, "The only way to be an aristSunday, and Father Burtchaell will make is to work. Work. I am used to it. Myopening remarks at 2:45. At 3:00, Laurence students want to work by the hour.
Schmeckbier, former professor at Syracuse Two..three hours a day. Nothing will beUniversity who wrote a well-known book on done this way." When asked what he didMestrovic will speak on the sculptor as a during his spare time, the artist, puzzled,person. Members of the ~estrovic family replied, "Work."
will be present at a reception at 3:30. 
The Pieta was at the MetropolitanBesides the works that are now on cam­Museum of Art at this time, but the sculptor pus the show will feature Persephone and thought that it belonged in a church. So theOio~ysius,an early self-portrait from 1917, statue, carved from a six-ton block ofthe 1500 pound marble Croatian Rhapsod.y, a marble, was moved from New York intowork entitled My Mother, and some eight Sacred Heart Church. A whole wall had tofoot drawings from Madame Mestrovic's be removed and replaced and steel girders private collection. Gallery officials also were built under the floor for support. Thepromise a big surprise in the form of a new Pieta was only at Notre Dame on loan,acquisition of one of the sculptor's most however, so Mestrovic, standing next to hisimportant pieces. 
masterpiece after it was esconced in theMuch of Mestrovic's work is too large to church, smiled, "Now that's what I call a move, and . this includes t":o eq~estrian artist to give a one-man show, in both the was forced to flee to Italy. Here he was permanent loan!"
monuments m Grant P~rk, Chicago· Indian Victoria and Albert Museum in London and instrumental in forming a committee whose In 1960, the artist suffered his first stroke, with Bow and Indian wath Spear. A twenty-the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New purpose was to unify the Serbs, the Croats, and on January 16, 1962, he was stricken byfour foot bronze entitled Man and Free~o~ York City. He has also been represented in and Slovenians. This aim was realized with a second in his studio. This one proved to beis mounted on ~e facade of the Mayo ~hmc exhibitions in Vienna, Zagreb, Edinburgh, the creation of Yugoslavia. fatal, but Ivan Mestrovic carried out hisin Rochester, Mmnesota. The Mem~r.aal to Glasgow, Paris, Chicago, Detroit, Buffalo, At the end of the war, Mestrovic tried to vow-he would work up to the last day of his 
Father Lopez, a!i eleven ~oot ~ron~eis m S~. Brooklyn, and Syracuse. become an ordinary citizen in his new life.Augustine, Flonda, and m Miami, there lS Yet this man praised by Rodin as "the country. He was rector of the Academy of an over-life size Pieta. . . greatest pheno~enon among the sculptors Art in Zagreb and taught and sculpted.Mestrovic, who created ~nm~r.lly of the world," stems from very humble However, he made no secret of his disap­
, "'''I";"Ju" art, was honored as the first hvmg · origins. Born in 1883 in the Croatian proval of Alexander I, the first king of province of present day Yugoslavia, Yugoslavia, and especially of Hitler. Mestrovic spent his childhood tending flocks So in 1941, Mestrovic was imprisoned by 
1of sheep in the Dalmatian Alps. It was ·the Nazi puppet government of Yugoslavia , during the lonely hours on the mountainside because of his pro-allied sympathies. Hitler that the young shepherd began to carve out said, "He is against us and he has always of wood. been against us." As a child, Ivan learned of the struggles of Although the imprisonment was terrifying ' the Serbs and Croats for freedom and read and the artist suffered greatly, this period the Bible intensely. Thus he became was also strangely prolific. On smuggled steeped in the themes of patriotism and brown wrapping paper, he drew, among religion, and his earliest works were heroic other things, the studies for the Pieta, which figures, Crucifixes and Madonnas. now stands in Sacred Heart Church on 
Mestrovic's work was favorably received campus. in the village and at age fifteen, he became Through Vatian intercession, Mestrovic apprenticed to a marble cutter in Split. He was released from prison and house arrest continued his art studies at the Academy of after four and a half months. He and his , Art in Vienna and later opened up his own family were smuggled into Switzerland, studio in Paris. remained there for three years, and then 
Mestrovic was very busy with his projects return to Rome. and commissions, yet he still made a name Through the efforts of Reverend Anthony for himself as a political figure. Because he Lauck, Director of the ND Art Gallery, and was against the Austro-Hungarian regime, of Father Hesburgh, Mestrovic came to he refused to show pieces in their pavilion at Notre Dame in 1955. He wanted very much an international exhibition, and he also to continue doing religious sculpture in a refused to design figures for the facade of place that would appreciate it. 
.. 

the Crown Prince's palace. So when World The "Maestro" became a familiar War I broke out, the Croatian nationalist campus figure, characteristically wearing 
photographs 
Top Center: Christ and the Samaritan Woman at Jacob's Well Middle Left: The Return of the Prodigal Son Middle Right: The Return of Middle Right: Pleta Bottom Left: St. Luke Bottom Right: St. John the Evangelist Photographs by Ed Brower. 
mestrovics works on campus 
Several pieces of Mestrovic's work are on campus: the Pieta, at a side altar in Sacred Heart Church; the Madonna and Child in the entrance of O'Shaughnessy Hall; Christ and the Samaritan Woman at Jacob's Well, St. Luke, and St. John the Evangelist in the courtyard of O'Shaughnessy; The Return of the Prodigal Son in Sacred Heart Church; the Madonna and Child in the Lewis Hall courtyard; a portrait of Ignatius O'Shaughnessy in the Art Gallery; a wooden relife of Christ as a Young Boy Teaching in Stanford-Keenan Hall; a bronze cast of Moses on the second floor of the Memorial Library; crucifixes in O'Shaughnessy, Lewis Hall, and Stanford-Keenan; and a wooden relief of The Last Supper in the North Dining Hall. 


..--------i-----·--­
A matter of interpretation 
This letter concerns the recent d~cision by the Indiana Court of P.O. Appeals. The essence of this decision was that there was no difference between the act of 
BOXQ
giving and the act of selling 
alcoholic beverages to minors. In either case the one who sells or the one who gives alcohol to a minor is responsible for that minor's subsequent actions. The former interpretation of the law was that only vendors were responsible for the subsequent actions of a minor The university would not be to whom they had illegally sold directly responsible for our liquor. The new interpretation is damage, but would heve to take that those who give liquor to a responsibility as the Institution in minor are equally responsible. All position of "loco parentis." The this is probably how familiar to administration is just in learning most of the student body. The the actions of drunken students, purpose of this letter is to deter-but the condition of responsibility !Tline the effect of this recent court has always existed -existed even decision. before the decision of the Indiana 
The question now before the SLC Court of Appeals. If the university and Dean Macheca is what has allowed controlled parties in decision to make concerning the past, there is no reason why alcohol on campus. The answer to they should not continue to do so. this question is very simple. That The recent court decision has had answer is to leave intact the no affect on the university's present contract system and no position except to reemphasize alcohol in public policy. The only that position. type of parts affected by the To sum up this letter let us re­court's latest decision is the establish the facts. A recent court university sponsored parties-such decision has made it clear that any as the Irish Wake. One could one who gives alcohol to a minor is understand the university's directly responsible for the position here. They can not give minor's subsequent actions. The alcohol to minors or they will be Irish Wake will not serve alcoholic directly responsible. This is, beverages because the university however, the only case in which the cannot and will not take direct university must relinquish its responsibility. The fact remains, responsibility. of "loco parentis" and as they are 
The university can not relinquish in such a position they can not its position of "loco parentis", relinquish any responsibility held which means that, while we are as a result of"loco parentis'" The here, the university takes on for all university has always been in this legal interests and purposes, the position and has in the past allowed responsibility of our parents. One alcoholic beverages at parties can see that the university would confined to our rooms. There is no be responsible for any damage that reason for the university to start we might do while we are here. curtailing these parties as they are not the ones giving aout the alcohol and as they are in the same position they have always been in. The court decision should have no effect other than to curtail university sponsored parties at which alcohol is served and the student should see that the university does not use the court decision as an excuse for curtailing our parties. 
(To the tune of 'Texan Love Song by Elton John) 
I hear from your rector you've been having some fun With a cute little thing from across route 31 
Authority 
She leaves your room at quarter to one But this would be okay if she were a nun 
You out-of-state students think you're real keen But the age in Indiana is still at eighteen 
Oliphant------------------------~ 


The Observer welcomes any of its readers to P.O. Box Q to share a comment, air a gripe or even a simple response to any aspect of duLac. Send all letters to 
The Editor 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
or drop them off in 'fhe Observer office in LaFortune. Names will be withheld upon request but we reserve the right to refuse the publication of unsigned letters. 
• • ~ > • 0' f·t f •• ' I 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR ­NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Su11. 
Thru June 15th, 1974 except May 18 and 19. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., _Phones. 
S~.nd ..thi~ .ad .to_, Y9!.'.f. parep.Js 
I've been in other states and had lots of fun Who gave us the But dry, dry Indiana is still twenty-one 
Student right to play God 
Well come on all my friends and get this through your head We'll drink in dry Indiana Dear Editor, Until we all fall dead I have been reading letters of 
others who feel abortion is wrong, Well you've taken away our beer and I feel it is time that I, too, but we'll still have lots fo fun here should speak up. Abortion is Even if Dean Macheca is after our murder. A new human being is 
formed at conception, not six
butt and social life is thoroughly cut months later. This human being 
should have as much right to live Our situation here is as any of us. After all, who gave us seemingly without hope the right to play God and decide But the solution is who should live and who should for everyone to smoke dope die'? 
Doug Grassi Name withheld upon request 
Warm Weather 
means 

COLD DRAFT 
at Nickie's 

New summer hours will be 9 p.m. to closing Don't forget your Nickie 's T-shirt 
on $2.50 



T<>m Sct1irr 

carlton Higgenbothatt 
T.>m McMahon General Agent 
~2~ 
;;;,,J)\}' 

Norm Wallace Bill Pumphrey Terry Billger 



'Tearafter vear~ semesterI after semester~ the CollegeMaster· from Fidelitv Union Life has been the most accepted most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelitv Union CollegeMaster·· .Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
Friday, April 26, 1974 the observer 1 1 
SHARE seeks higher response 
David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
SHARE, the Student Help and Resource Endeavor at St. Mary's, has not received the response form students that the SHARE staff has hoped for in their first weeks of operation. 
The student staffers at SHARE offer information and referral services for the problems and interests of students on both campuses. SHARE also gives students aan opportunity to talk to peers about any subject of interest or concern to the student. 
Jane Albietz, a senior at St. Mary's and one of the organizers of SHARE, says that the staff must gain the trust of the students in 
order for students to use the ser­vices of SHARE on a large scale. The questions and problems of 
students contacting SHARE are kept in confidence. A file is dept on the nature of the student's inquiry and the class year of the student. However, SHARE keeps no record of the names of students contacting them. 
The idea for SHARE originated with Cathy Liesman, a Deceober graduate of St. Mary's and currently a resident counsellor in LeMans Hall. She and others saw the need for students to more actively help each other with their porblems. 
Liesman and Albietz, along with Patti Kampsen, the current director of SHARE, sent out a questionaire to 25 per cent of each class at St. Mary's. The questionaire polled students on what types of information and services they would like to see coming from a student resource center. 
The returned surveys showed that stucdnts wanted information in areas such as; self defense, hobbies, and crafts, car main­tainence, budgeting, careers, academics and peer problems. 
With the results of the survey, Liesman, Albietz and Kampsen cleared their idea with St. .Mary's administration and began training a staff for SHARE. 
In training, the SHARE staff 
learned listening skills and became familiar · with the in­formation and services available to students. 
The staff presently numbers 24 student volenteers. Most volun­teers are freshmen and sophmores and a minority are Notre Dame men. 
SHARE opened its office in the basement of Holy Cross Hall at St. Mary's room 15, on March 3, the first Sunday before spring break began. 
Jane Albietz expresses the philosophy of SHARE : 
"We feel there hasn't been enough time given to the individual person by fellow students. Also there is a huge gap between students and the resourpes 

Academic proposals considered 
(continued from page 1) 
"Obviously this was motivated by concern about grade inflation," noted Nedeau. "Actually, it will cause more grade inflation. I think this creates an artificial standard of excellence." 
HPC Chairman Bob Howl added, "You just penalize the kids who have been doing the work." 
Other major colleges have higher levels for Dean's List. Yet McLaughlin was quick to point out that not all colleges have minus grades. 
"The minus grades pull evervthinJ!: down," he contended. 
"Stop-out" program 
Neadeau intends to propose that 
the University add provisions for 
students who wish to leave the 
University for a specific period of 
time for reasons other than health. 
This program, entitled "Stop­
Out," has been endorsed by the 
Carnegie Commission of which Fr. 
Hesburgh is a member. 
"We will present a variation of 
Brunch Sunday for SMC seniors 
Patti Cooney St. Mary's Edito 
This Sunday, April 28, there will be a brunch for St. Mary's seniors, sponsored by the junior class, at 
1:00 p.m. in the dining hall. 
Funds for the brunch were given 
to the junior class by Student 
Government. Approximately 340 
juniors and 260 seniors are ex­
pected to attend. 
The brunch will be served buffet style. During the meal en­tertainment, saluting the seniors will be provided. 
Those who are unable to attend should call 4319 by Friday after­noon. 
the program in which the act of leaving the University will not be on the basis of a serious health problem," Nedeau said. 
University Curve 
Nedeau will propose that the Academic Coulcil specify the particulars of the so-called University Curve for grades. 
Howl cited the inconsistency among faculty members in · grading policy. "Everybody's got their own university curve," he said. 
Grade Referral 
Nedeau would also provide for a 
committee with each college to 
hear grievances on grades. In 
cases of alleged plagiarism and 
cheating the grade referral board 
would prove of value. 
"Our intention would be to in­
form students that grade revie\\o in 
extraordinary cases could be m'lde 
available," the Academic Com­
missioner said. 
Credit Transfer 
A controversy has arisen over 
the clause pertaining to transfer of 
credits, especially from other 
colleges and schoastic aptitude 
tests. 
Presently, the clause reads, "In 
the event that such courses have 
been taken, the credits will usually 
be accepted, but the determination 
of the applicability of the credits to 
the degree will be at the discretion 
of the appropriate deans." 
The students would ask for a 
specific time to be determined for 
the deans to decide on the credits. 
Preferably the time would be 
placed at the end of the freshman 
year, after the student has 
declarrd which college he is 
planning to enter. 
Class Schedules 
The present code reads, "a student may drop courses at his 
A Must for those considering Law School 
LAWYER NIGHT 
"Special talks by four South Bend lawyers" Sponsored by the Pre-Law Society 
Library Auditorium 
7:30 PM Sunday April 28 
~ ~ ~­
. -.... -.. ..... -.---n1%11-· ........-... ~• .....:-.. ..,..1..... ~ .... 
own discretion during the first five class days of the semester, after which the student must have the approval of the dean." 
Objections have arisen on three points. The first sentence, ac­cording to the proposed changes, would read "students may drop courses at their own discretion." The students will push for the limit to be extended to .ten class days and will ask that the department chairman be considered for the approval of drops and adds, in­stead of the deans. 
Final Examinations 
Nedeau stated that the student representatives will ask for a rule which states that,"no student need take more than two tests over a twenty-four hour period." 
According to Pat McLaughlin, "a student who has an exam at· 
RoGERS 
Optical 
lOGO ATWIU -OWNH 

four in the afternoon and seven that evening would not have to take another exam until four the next afternoon." 
Grading 
The Administration's version oi the Academic Code presently reads, "A student may fail a course regardless of his grade going into the examination if, in the judgement of the instructor, the work of the course has not been completed or if the final examination is unsatisfactory." 
"The term 'unsatisfactory' in relation to the performance on a final exam," said McLaughlin, "is very vague, and we would like to see it clarified." 
The students are also proposing a renewal of the rule which would allow a final exam to not count for more than one-third of the course grade. 
HOUISr •··
MON-TUES-"--PII 
9 AM .S.» PM 
WID -SA.T 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLn£ SPIICI'ACLI! SEIYICE All fH Di.'S PIIESCRIPTIONS HONOIEt 
C../1 •. 
189-7809 
THI Bill PIOPU 
Some people say Turin Bicycle has the largest selection of custom racing and touring bicycles and accessories in America. We don't know if that's ture, but 

we do know we carry an awful lot of brands. From Italy: Colnago, Galmozzi, Poglighi, DeRosa, and Cinelli. From England: Bob Jackson, Hetchins, Mercian, Raleigh, and Carlton. From France: Motobecane. From the USA: Eisentraut, ing, Bob Meyers, and Yellow Jersey. And more-from Japan, Holland, Germany, and Argentina. What's more, our bike experts together have more than 100 years of experience behind them, so you can count on the best possible advice and help. 
Turin in Chicago [60614], at 1932 North Clark St.-[312] 944-3800. Turin in Evanston [60201], at 1027 Davis Street-[312] UN 4-7660. 
available to them in the South Bend community, or at St. Mary's itself." 
SHARE attempts to provide for these shortcomings. 
Albietz goes on to say that students don't need a problem in order to contact SHARE. "You may just want a chance to talk and to let off some steam," she says. 
SHARE hopes to prove its ef­fectiveness in order to become a permanent service at St. Mary's. it hopes that in the future, St. Mary's may budget the group money for operating expenses. 
What money that now trickles into SHARE goes toweard building a reference library that will elaborate on the information and referrral services available to students. 
The SHARE offices are open every night of the week, form 8 
p.m. to midnight on Sudnay through Thrusday and from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. Men and women students may come to the office at this time, or else contact SHARE by phone at 284-4311. 

.ATTENTION ALL RADUATIN STUDENTS Measurements will be taken for 
CAPS 
and 

GOWNS 
Thursday 
April 25 
and Friday 
April 26 
between 

9:00-4:00 
at the 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
" 

-----------~-~-----­
12 the observer Friday, April 26, 1974 
Patty reaffirms SLA loyalty • • • 
SAN FRANCISCO <UPI>­Rrnading her father and fiance as pigs and "clowns," Patricia Hearst has sworn her allegiance to the terrorist Symbionese Liberation Army (SLA) that claims to have kidnaped her nearly three months ago. And "I am a soldier of the people's army" who voluntarily robbed a bank, she said. 
Speaking in a calm, subdued voice in a taped message received by authorities Wednesday. Miss Hearst said "Greetings ...This is Tania." She then proceeded to heap scorn and ridicule on her family, said she never cared if she saw her "sexist pig" fiance again, and added: 
"To those people who still believe that I'm brainwashed or dead, I see no reason to further defend my position. I am a soldier of the people's army. 
"The only way we can free ourselves of this fascist dic­tatorship is by fighting-not with words, but with guns." 
In the tape, the 20-year-old 
college coed called her parents 
"the pig Hearsts," and at one point 
addressed her father as "Adolf," Steven Weed, to whom she became engaged last December and planned to marry in June, "my ex­fiance." 
Her father, San Francisco Examiner editor and president 'andolph a. Hearst, confirmed the voice was his daughter's and added: 
"The only good thing is that she is alive. Regarding her personal attacks on me, if she has been brainwashed, and I firmly believe she has, then it's not surprising she would say something like this. 
"No matter what she says, we still love her. The girl we've known all her life would not say something like that of her own free will." 
In the tape, Miss Hearst, whom the Symbionese Liberation Army claims to have kidnaped on Feb. 4, dismissed suggestions that she come forward for a personal in­terview as proof that she is not being coerced. 
"To the clowns who want a personal interview with me­Vincent Hallinan (an at­torney),Steven Weed and the pig Hearst" she said, "it's absurd to think that I could surface to say what I'm saying now and be allowed to freely return to my comrades. The enemy still wants me dead." 
The tape, which also included the voices of two men, was Miss Hearst's first communication since she renounced her family on April 3 and said she was joining the SLA as an armed comrade. She also said she had taken the name "Tania," in memory of a slain girl friend of Latin American guerrilla Che Guevara. 
Wednesday night's tape from Patricia ended with the words, "Patria o muerte, venceremos." They are the same words used by Cuban Prime Minister Fidel Castro when he ends speeches, and they translate: "Fatherland or death, we will overcome." 
No Official Comment 
Federal authorities had no immediate comment on the tape. 
Police Community Relations Director Rodney Williams, who obtained the ape through an in­termediary, turned it ove r to the FBI. He said the tape was in a brown paper package along with half of Miss Hearst's driver's license and a red poster showing hands and a clenched fist. The 
• • • but FBI presses search 
By ART MCGINN 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) Despite Patricia Hearst's insist­ence that she has joined the Symbionese Liberation Army which kidnaped her, the FBI said Thursday its investigation will proceed as before into the 80-day-old abduction. 
"It certainly doesn't change our investigation," said Charles 
W. Bates, the FBI agent in charge. "It adds another bit of information." 
U.S. Attorney James Brown­ing had no immediate comment on whether the latest tape recording from Miss Hearst, received Wednesday, would result in a change in her status of being sought only as a 
.. material witness in the robbery of a San Francisco bank April 15. In a caustic and bitter statement, Miss Hearst branded her father and fiance as "pigs" and "clowns" and reaffirmed her allegiance to the tiny terrorist group which kidnaped her Feb. 4. After hearing the tape, her father, Randolph A. Hearst, president and editor of the San Francisco Examiner, said the family still believes she has been brainwashed by the SLA. 
"No matter what she says, we still love her," Hearst said. A federal grand jury con­
vened last week to investigate the kidnaping and bank rob­
bery, in which $10,600 was taken and two bystanders were wounded, called two young women with past ties to SLA members to testify Thursday. But both said they would refuse to cooperate in the secret proceeding. 
The two were Cynthia Garvey and Janet Cooper Weiss, 27, whose identification was used by a woman SLA member to rent four cars used in the bank holdup. Mrs. Weiss said the identification cards had been stolen from her last October. 
The latest tape recording, the 
eighth communication from the 
SLA since the kidnaping, was 
given to a San Francisco police 
officer through unidentified 
intermediaries. 
~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ~ 
i Swimming Party i 
~ sponsored by the SMC Social Commission ~ 
~ * swim from 8 to 12 in SMC's ~ ~ new pool ~ ~ * see movies of Chaplan, 3 stooges, ~ ~ Marx bros. & Pink Panther (8-9) ~ ~ * DJ Steve "Dewey" Weber will play your favorite ~ ~ records for dancing ~ ~ * come for refreshments, billiards, and p'ing-pong ~ 

School house Too 
In the Brewery 100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181 


The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student 10 
HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 
...................................... 
In it, Miss Hearst said it was "ridiculous to the point of being beyond belief" to think that she 
had  been  brainwashed  into  
participating  in  the  bank  
robbery.  

"I was in a position (at the bank) so I could hold bank personnel and customers who were on the floor," she said. "My gun was loaded, and at no time did any of my comrades intentionally point their guns at me." 
There has been speculation by her family and authorities that Miss Hearst was forced to participate, and it was for that reason she was named only as a material witness rather than a suspect. Federal bank rob­bery warrants have been issued for four other suspects. 
other half of Miss Hearst's license had been used to authenticate a previous SLA communication. 
Speaking of Weed on the tape, Miss Hearst said: 
"As for my ex-fiance, I'm amazed that he thinks that the first thing I would want to once freed would be to rush and see him. The fact is, I don't care if I ever see him again. 
"During the last few months Steven has shown himself to be a sexist, ageist pig. Frankly, Steven is the one who sounds brain­washed. I can't believe those weary words he uttered were from his heart. They were a mixture of FBI rhetoric and Randy's sim­plicity." 
'Those Weary Words' 
In using the phrase "those weary words," Miss Hearst apparently was making a mocking allusion to a similar comment by her mother, Catherine. They were words used by Mrs. Hearst to describe the last communication from her daughter. 
Miss Hearst also questioned the validity of a letter published in her father's newspaper. The letter, said to be from French revolutionary Regis Debray, asked for proof that she was speaking voluntarily. 

Addressing her father, she said, "How could it have been written in Paris and published in your newspaper on the same day, Adolf?" 
Explaining the alleged reason for the bank robbery, she said the holdup "forced the corporate state to help finance the revolution ... As with the money involved in my parents' had faith gesture to aide the people, these funds are being used to aide the people and to in­sure the survival of the people's forces in their struggle with and for the people." 
Denies Brainwashing 

She said she was alive and well. "As for being brainwashed, the idea is ridiculous to the point of being beyond belief." 
Shortly before police received the tape, the FBI announced that two rented getaway cards used injthe bank robbery had been located in a basement parking garage. The FBI said the vehicles, which turned up in a routine chekc, apparently had been left there within a few hours of the April 15 holdup. 
RESERVATIONS
I 
284-4176 
~ 
w ND 

Student • Faculty
SMC 

ND·SM C Staff 
$200
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 


John Gay's ribald musical romp Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
The American Characl.et'Series presents The Alpha-Omega Players in 
SP()(JN RI\rEH 
i~·''fLIQLO. c~·v
.. ~. ~ r . ,J 1 

Monday, April 29th, at B;OOpm 
Washinglon Hall Admission $1.00 Dance & Drama Patrons Free 
I.....Ih.i.~d-~~~~~~9.Y-u.·~....t9......l.~,-:.~eg~~~. SMC. ... I . .___......_.___._______...;....____;__j 
~,,,,...,..........,,.....,,........,....~..--..............,,..........,,,,,.....,,,...., 
Friday, April 26, 1974 the observer 13 
L_ist of charges against Nixon narrowed 
WASHINGTON UPI-The legal staff of the House Judiciary Comittee's impeachment inquiry Thursday narrowed its list of potential charges against President Nixon from 56 to 37. 
Special Counsel John M. Doar said some of the other 19 allegations have been found upon investigation to be baseless and some have been assigned a low priority. but not dropped. 
Hcre arc thc :n t'0maining high­priority n'allt>rs under m­vestigation: 
Domestic surveillance 
'White House directed in­telligence activities, including the planned fire bombing of the Brokkings Institution and fun­neling paymcnts to Waterg11te defendants. 
-Creation of the "plumbers unit' and the burglary at the office of Dr. Lewis Fielding. 
-17 illegal wiretaps and their concealment. 
-The spiriting away of Dita Beard when she was sought as a witness for the Senate ITT in­vestigation. 
-The offer of high office to the judge in the Daniel Ellsberg trial. 
-Nixon's personal authorization for five days of an extralegal in­telligence unit empowered to in­tercept mail, wiretap and burglarize. Illegal Campaign Practices 
-Hiring Donald Segretti for "dirty tricks" against Democrats. -The cover-up of Segretti's ac­tivities. 
-Forging cables to tie President John F. Kennedy to the assassination of South Vietnam President Diem. 
-Illegal campaign spying ac­tivities by the Committee to Re­Elect the President. Watergate Break-in and Coverup 
-The plan to bug Democratic headquarters at the Watergate. 
-Destruction of E. Howard Hunt's White House files and concealment of that act. 
Payment of "hush money" and promises of clemency to seven Watergate defendants. 
-Attempts to involve the CIA in the cover-up. 
Decision to offer perjured testimony to the Watergate grand jury and trial: 
AMA denies health care crisis ·before congression~l coininittee 
By CRAIG A. PALMER 
WASHINGTON 1 UPil :-The president of the American Medical Association <AMAl said Thursday that most 
congressional  proposals  for  
national  health  insurance  are  
based  on  a  false  allegation  that  

there is a rrisis in health care. 
In testimony before the House Ways and ;\!can~ C'l'il"'tnqtf'e, the AMA differ!:'d !"h:1cply l\ith the Amcrican Hospit:•l \.;;soria­tion, which citcd sp·:rt·<': lllajor health care prohirnts. 
"Much of the drive for legislation of this type arises from an allegation of crisis in health care." AMA President Russell B Hntt> told the commiltPe. "The fact i"> that n fir(' r~·ople 
are receiving 11111re and better medical care from more and better trained physicians, in more and better equipped facilities than ever before in history. Thcse an• n:Jt denl('nts of crisis." 
Roth also tontPP<it·d tk.t the public "does not perceive medical service to be a major problem area." 
Hospital Association Presi­dent John :\. !\I•·1\T~1hon elisa­greed. "Major Pi"flh!Pms sti:I persist," be said. ,,~pntioning uneven access to hea!th care services, health inflation and fragmented regulations among those problems. 
Some 20 proposals now are before Congress for national health insurance. The A\IA 
Four South Bend lawyers to speak Sunday night 
by Paul Waller 
Staff Reporter 
Four leading attorneys of the South Bend area will give a talk on Sunday, April 28, at 7:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
The four lawyers will discuss various types of practices in­cluding civil, corporate, and criminal law. After a one hour talk, the attorneys will answer 
SMC accepting 
nominations for 
Board positions 
by Pattie Cooney 
SMC Editor 
The St. Mary's Student Relations Board is accepting nominations for two alternate positions. The two openings for alternatees are: Chairman of the Late Minutes Board and Secretary to the Student Relations Board. 
Nominations will remain open until sometime Monday night. The Review Board will meet to decide on the applicants on Tuesday, April 30. 
For details concerning the positions and deadline for nominations call Marne Antoine at 4028 or the Office of student affairs. 
plnnnin~ n\W<klin~'? 
call Tlx> 234-5822 
\Wddin~ Photn~rnpiH 234-~ MICHAEL LONER 
~~ 
questions from the audience and then retire to the Library Lounge for refreshments and an informal discussion. 
The presentation is open to all and is being sponsored by the Pre­Law Society. Bob Guerra, retiring president of the Society, urged that "anyone interested in the study of law should attend," and he also expressed his hopes for a large turn-out. Robert Waddick, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, is the faculty advisor for the Pre-Law Society. 
supports one that Wt•Uld give low income taxpayers credits on their income tax returns toward financing health care. The Hospital Association has endorsed a h;ll 111,:1 would create health cart> corporations throughout the o:ountry to provide comprehensive health services in specific geograph­ical areas. 
Making a pitch for his own bill, Sen. Husscll H. Long, D­La., also maclt> a rare appearance lwfore the Ways and Means Committee and promised that the Senate would not allow any House-passed health insurance bill to die. 
Long, whose Senate Finance~ Committee would have to~ consider any f'ouse-passed ~ health insurance lcgislat.ion, ; was questioned about reports 1that the Senat!:' is not interested 1 in passing a bill this year. 
"As far ·1s I'm concerned, l and I think I nn ~p0ak for half :1 of the S•'n~t<> v;n:!nu• Cummit-1 tee, if you ;·:1~" .1 hi!l. it •ron't \. die in the Senate," lte replied. il Long appeared with Sen. , 
Abraham Ribicoff, D-Conn., I ~~~~Friday Nites: _Perch Dinners :~l 
who together has sponsored the I 
=*:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:~:?.~:~:::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::*'
Catastrophic Health Insurance , and Medical Assistance Reform l U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host Act of 1974. Rl'placing MPdicaid 1i (Across from Hoiiday 1nn) 
Bob Edwards, NO '50 
with a reformed and expanded p·====::::::=::=::'""'=: 
· insurance program for poor · persons, it would also provide benefits for most families after their ann~al medical bills reached $2,000 or after an individual was hospitalized for 60 days. 
Cinema 7 4 presents 
Ophuls' 
"Earrings of 
Madame De" 
Saturday and Sunday April 27 and 28 at 8 and 10 pm in the Eng. Auditorium Admission $1.00 -Patrons Free 
Use of the CIA to retrieve Watergate evidence from the Justice Department. 
Perjured testimony during the hearings into L. Patrick Gray's nomination to head the FBI. 
-Involvement of high officials in the cover-up. 
-The breakdown of the agreement reached during the appointment of Archibald Cox as special Watergate prosecutor. 
-Cox' firing Oct. 20, 1973. -The initial refusal to make available subpoenaed tapes. 
The 18 t;2-minute gap in the June 20, 1972 tape. Nixon's Personal Finances 
-Possible criminal fraud in connection with Nixon's 1970-73 income tax returns. 
Use of Government Agencies for Political Purposes 
-Contributions taken for the promise of apJwintment to am­bassadorships. 
Contributions from milk muted in return for support during the 1972 presidential campaign. 
producers taken for  lower dairy  
import  wuotas  and  higher  milk  
price supports.  
-Sentences  of  



-Use of the Federal Com­munications Commission to control and retaliate against media criticism. 
-Use of the Internal Revenue Sdrvice to harass "enemies" of the adminstration and reward friends. 
-Allowed various corporate mergers to go unchallenged because the participants con­tributed to the Nixon campaign. 
-Use of the Justice Department 
-Antitrust suit against In­ternational Telephone and Telegraph ITT settled in return for a pledge of financial help for the 1972 Republican National con­vention. 
-Influencing various government agencies to promote improperly Nixon's re-election. 
-Suppression of criminal proceedings against recipients of aid from the Small Business Ad­minstration for political reasons. 
-Solicitation and receipt of a $200,000 contribution from fugitive financier Robert L. Vesco. 
-Substitution of civil for criminal charges against a defendant because of a financial pledge to the 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
)$:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::& 
;:;: 35 Varieties of Pancakes ::;: :i:ichicken -Steak -Sandwiches ~~=~ 
i 

1 
I 
14 the observer Friday, April 26, 1974 
College is clear sailing for drifting students 
HIKKADUWA, Sri Lanka (UPI) 
School can hardlv be called a hore for the 560 freewheeling American students aboard the S.S. Universe campus. 
"It's great and the classes are a real breeze,"said Mike Stanwood, a mustachioed 21-year-{'lld junior from Denver, Colo., as he lounged on the beach after a weeklong expedition along the coral reefs of Hikkaduwa. 
"This semester we're going around the world with 13 stops like Hawaii, Japan, Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Africa," the pre-med major added. 
"We stop each place for five or six days and have required on­shore programs like visiting parliament, getting briefed by the 
U.S. Embassy or going to a pottery village." 
Robbi Bjerum, a vivacious blonde junior from Orange, Calif., is an anthropology major at Fullerton College. She transferred to the SSUniverse campus for the semester voyage because she wanted to study family structures in foreign lands. 
l.iving With Family 
"Here I'm living with a Sinhalese family and getting credit for that," she said. "But you can't spend more than two semesters at this school because you don't have to study very hard and you'd fall behind." 
Peter Greene, a sophomore from Oceanside, N.Y., agreed that many of the students are less than serious about their scholarly pursuits. 
"This school is for kids who want to travel around the world but have to stay in school or get cut off by their parents," he said with an impish grin. 
Although the S.S. Universe campus is affiliated with con-
Youths attack headquarters of Fascists in Rome 
By WILBORN HAMPTON 
ROME <UPI) -Left-wing youths attacked a local nco­Fascist party headquarters Thursday in celebration of the 29th anniv~rsary of the libera­tion of Italy by Allied forces in World War H. 
The attack by a band of more than 100 youths coincided with a call by Premier Mariano Rumor for an end to a growing wave of violence in Italy. 
Rumor, speaking in Padua on the liberation anniversary, called for a "general moral revolt" in Italy against growing violence in conn~tion with the May 12-13 re.rerendum on whether to abolish the divorce law. 
"There has been a recent rebirth of a turbid and suspicious trauma of criminal \'iolence in a moment in which the country has before it serious problems," Rumor said. 
As he spoke, the band of left­wingers attacked a group of right-wing youths handing out handbills calling for the aboli­tion of divorce in front of a nco­Fascist Italian Social Move­ment party headquarters. 
The youths hurled rocks and several firebombs before police halted the fracas. One police car was burned and one student and one policeman were injured in the brief fighting. 
In another incident, a gaso­line bomb damaged the car of an assistant prosecutor in Tr~viso. near Venice. 
servative Chapman College in Orange, the shipboard student life can hardly be termed stoic. 
The ship has a bar, swimming pool and full student union facilities. 
"It isn't very hard travelling," said Greene, "the only thing I really miss are good old Nathan's hot dogs." 
Streaking, Too 
The campus streaking fad has not bypassed the floating university despite its semi­isolation on the high seas. 
"Soneone's always streaking," Greene laughed. "The sudents streak, the professors streak, the dean streaks." 
"One professor held a streaking contest and promised the first two students to hit his office passes to a special onshore program," said Stanwood. "It turned out to be a tour of a Japanese hudist colonu or something." 
The students all agree that school authorities are fairly liberal about sex but they lament the 2-1 ratio of girls to boys. 
Miss Bjerum said notices were passed out giving "the numbers for planned parenthood in Honolulu, so I guess the administration doesn't really mink." 
"Some couples are allowed . to share a cabin but only those who were living together before they came on board," Stanwood said. "If you go to your cabin and find one of your roommates occupied you spend the night on a couch in the lounge." 
The college is strict, however, about drugs. 
''The whole crew is under orders to immediately search any cabin that has a smell other than incense coming out of it." Stanwood said. "If a kid gets caught with grass or something they send him right home." 
That practice, the students said, has contributed some tense moments beetween students and crew. 
"One guy got caught smoking grass (marijuana) while we were in Japan," said Greene. "He was busted and was still in a Japanese jail when we sailed." 
Although one semester aboard the S.S. Universe campus costs an average of $5,000, not all the students are from wealthy families. 
Miss Bjerum, whose father is a woodworker, took out loans and worked as a hair-dresser in her spare time to pay for her trip. 
'Endless Pocketbooks' 
"But lots of kids have just en­dless pocketbooks," she said. "Everywhere they stop they buy fancy stereos and expensive furniture. Their cabins are un­believable." 

When the ship docked in Colombo, hundreds of students toting credit cards and travelier's checks converged on the shops making the kind of waves the government of any developing country wants to feel. 
While most confined their shopping to the crowded bazaars, many of the youthful buyers moved into the capital's xclusive jewelry shops to sift through the sapphires, garnets and amethyst that bring the Island Republic a good portion of its foreign ex­change. 
"They really ought to call our 
ship the S.S. Shopping Spree," 
giggled one coed struggling out of a 
shop with a huge cane chair in one 
anYl and a wicker basket stuffed 
with batiks, pottery and silver 
~ewelry in the other. 
Off-campus food survey 




HOUSEHOLD Dial hand soap -bath size Tide wash soap -giant size Crest toothpaste -family Scott toilet paper -per roll 
FROZEN FOODS Birdseye frozen beans ­store brand frozen beans Birdseye frozen corn -niblets store brand frozen corn orange juice . 6 oz. Banquet beef pot pie -small store brand beef pot pie Swanson turkey TV dinner 
PRODUCE oranges -1 lb. lettuce -1 head potatoes -10 lb. bananas -1 lb. 
CANNED GOODS Del Monte corn . 12 oz. store brand corn Campbell's pork & beans . 16 oz. store brand pork & beans Folger's coffee -3 lb. store brand coffee Starkist tuna-7 oz. store brand tuna Peter Pan peanut butter -28 oz. store brand peanut butter Campbell chicken noodle soup store brand noodle soup Lipton chicken noodle soup -dry 
DAIRY milk -homo -1 gal. margarine eggs -dozen Kraft swiss cheese 1 lb. Kraft american cheese . 16 slices 
MEAT ground beef 1 lb. chicken fryer 1 lb. Oscar Meyer hot dogs bacon pork steaks 1 lb. pork chops 1 lb. 
DRY GOODS Nabisco saltine crackers store brand crackers bread . giant loaf Kelloggs corn flakes -12 oz. store brand corn flakes Gold Medal flour -5 lb. store brand flour Domino sugar -S lb. store brand sugar spaghetti -reg. 1 lb. Chef-Boy-ar-Dee -pack Hamburger Helper -pack Nabisco Oreos -small pack 
BEVERAGES Coke -8 pack -16 oz. deposit Strohs cans -cold pack 
bottles -8 pack Hi-C -orange 
Total (for the 20 numbered items) 
3 
4 
s 
6 
8 
9 10 
11 12 13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 20 


.22 .87 .18  .23 .96 .18  .21 .93 .18  .21 .93 .18  .27 .93 .93 .18  .26 .99 1.18 .21  .27 .93 1.18 .19  .83 .18  .26 1.00 .20  .30 .95 .91 .19  .93 .81 .19  
.30 .29 .26 .25 .28 .25 ..85  .29 .25 .25 .23 .29 .79  .41 .25 .41 .27 .29 .25 .73  .31 .29 .33 .25 .72  .31 .35 .35 .25  .33 .33 .43 .28 .33 .69  .43 .29 .43 .25 .33 .25 .79  .33 .29 .29 .25 .33 .25 .75  .37 .31 .26 .35 .32 .70  .75 .41 .34 .25 .93  .35 .29 .31 .25 .28 .65  
.99 .33 2.39 .19  .89 .33 2.69 .29  .79 .33 2.79 .19  1.00 .39 2.29 .19  .S7 .39 1.49 .19  .28 .33 2.29 .08  .56 .33 2.59 .21  .99 .39 2.59 .19  .79 .39 1.59 .19  .81 .29 2.19 .15  .79 .49 2.90 .15  
.27 .25 .25 2.99 2.99 .57 .22 .20 .49  .26 .25 .29 3.25 2.99 .53 1.19 .20 .39  .20 .22 .33 3.25 2.99 l.OS .20 ..20  .20 .27 .25 3'25 3.09 1'19 1.12 .25 .22 .47  .29 .25 .59 3.19 .57 1.09 .19 .45  .29 .29 .39 .35 3.19 2.99 .59 .ss 1.28 1.09 .24 .21 .43  .25 .25 .27 .25 3.25 2.97 .75 1.19 1.09 .20 .20 .42  .26 .25 .29 .29 3.25 .ss .ss .21 .39  .25 .29 .37 3.05 .60 .56 .24 .48  .29 .28 .28 3.25 .68 1.11 .22 .49  .27 .25 .29 3.05 .53 .48 1.15 .21 .20 .36  
1.48 .57 .69 1.82  1.57 .47 1.79  1.29 .63 .69  l.SS .48 .67  1.47 .ss .72 .75  1.-49 .59 .63 .79  1.69 .48 .49 .63  1.41 .52 .63 1.89 .61  1.20 .69 .75 .83  1.58 .69 .55 1.79 .61  l.SS .63 .70 1.76 .79  
.89 .79 1.19 1.19 .89 .99  .88 .45 1.19 1.19 1.08 1.38  .98 .49 1.19 1'45 1'09 '90  .78 .59 1.09 1.29 .98 1.26  .99 .69 1.19 .99 .99 1.29  .89 .59 1.75 1.25 .99 1.29  .88 .79 1.19 1.10 l.OS 1.33  .79 .89 1.29 1.39 .99 1.19  .89 .79 .98 1.29  .89 .59 1.19 1.35  .89 .63 1.15 1.29 .99 .95  
I  .55 .49 .36 1.04 .95 1.15 1.10 .45 .73 .61 .65 1.09 2.89 1.95 .41  .56 .49 .33 1.02 17 .6.. .59 .67 1.05 2.98 1.95 .39  '51 '43 .47 .35 1.02 .99 1.12 1.06 .53 .59 .as 1.05 2.95 1.89 .35  .ss .49 .49 .45 1.02 .96 1.18 1.15 .53 .59 .71 l.OS 2.88 1.85 .35  .53 .35 .47 1.03 l.OS .53 .79 .59 .83 2.98 1.99 .35  .ss .43 .64 .37 1.29 .99 1.29 1.25 .53 .75 .69 .65 2.85 1.75 .43  .56 .43 .49 .35 1.05 .95 1.11 .ss .68 .59 .67 2.89 1.95 .35  .49 .39 .35 .99 1.13 .ss .63 .65 l.OS 2.98 l.SS .37  .53 .64 .38 1.17 1.04 1.21 .78 .67 .63 1.05 l.SO .75  .49 .33 1.09 1.12 .51 .63 1.09 2.99 1.99 .37  .59 .39 .59 .35 1.04 .87 1.08 .48 .59 .75 .69 1.15 1.99 .35  
19.10  19.37  19.51  18.82  18.33  19.30  19.38  19.40  18.19  19.39  



~~---------------------~------------------------. 
For Pat Coleman number one means baseball too 
by John Fineran 
Normally, you don't expect a success in one sport to affect another. But, this year at Notre Dame, that has not been the case, particularly for Irish third baseman Pat Coleman. 
"I've certainly been thrilled with our ability to beat the number one teams in football and basketball," the Anoka, Minn. senior says. "They've been some of my favorite moments here at Notre Dame." 
Still, Coleman, who's currently hitting .329 for Coach Jake Kline's 11·17baseballers, wouldn't mind if some of those football and basketball successes rubbed off on the Irish version of the national pastime. 
"For me, you have to have an urge to be number one even though you shouldn't get hung up on it,'' he confesses. "You have to strive for success, but you have to know your place when doing it." 
The pre-med major certainly knows his place in athletics, and he has been quite successfuly staying there. Coleman was an all-state in three sports-football, basketball and baseball--at Benilde High School, but he'd give up all of those honors to allow the Irish to ap­proach Benilde's success on the 
NO's women's tennis team downs St M 
I
• ary S 
by Kathi l':.• t!'nw 
TPnnis huffs 11 ('!'·' treated to an 
exciting t·ont('st \1 iu:-n the St. 
Mary's and Nt,tre l1;ime w"trH'n's 
tennis teams met on the Regin.'1 
Courts yesterday afternoon. 
In the number one singles event 
Betsy Fallon of Notre Dame 
defeated Sheila Fineran 6-2, 6-3. 
Number two players Jane Lammrrs (ND) overcame Karen Midock 6-:!.6-0. St. :\1ary's came back iil t!w llll!nilt'! three singles 
event with an rxclting spilt set 
Art S·Jpplies
between Ann Houser (SMCl and Ell en CaII aha n . After a series of ..!JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllllililllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiRIIIIIIIIIIIIII,IIIIIHIIIffiiiiiUHIIIIIIIIII 
~~:~~acyk:rr~~~~; ~~~~lly captured ~ *HARRY SHAFFER ~t_i 
SMC's !<~!lie Heil brought the i ~ singles ewnt tn :w ewn 2-2 by = ~ defeating Sh:mm Sullivan with a 6· it~ AS PLENTY Of NEW AND USED CARS!!:: 
3 and a tiebreaker. ~ 
The Irish women began their § winning climb in the double's 5 matches where they took all three § of the best of two series 6-4, 6-4; 6-1, ~ 6-4; and in the last 2-6, 6-2, 6-4. ~ 
After the match Lammers 5 commented, "Of course we've 5 been looking forward to playing ~ the St. Mary's !=:iris because we're ~ right across the street from each 5 
other. It was a really good game." 5 DOWNTOWN • 5 Notre Dame, now 1-1, will take 5 ' souTH BEND Harry Shaffer ~ 
on Lake Forest at home this § a I & Student Re §
weekend, and St. Mary's, 0-3, :: P • 5
0
travels to Michigan State a week.~ 288•1421 ~ from Sat u rda Y· =.111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~ IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIINIIIIIIIIIII1111111111""11111111 5 
ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 
Place your ring orders before you leave for the summer. Your ring will then be ready when you return in the fall. 
Hours: 9:00 am to 4:30 pm Mon.-Fri. in office on second floor of HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
baseball diamond-two consecutive state runner-up titles. 
"I'd certainly like to see us get something rolling," he admits. "I don't know if we're over anxious or not, but we haven't been hitting the pitching the way we should. 
"Baseball is like any other sport. It is a game of confidence. And with confidence comes luck. The breaks just haven't been going our way. The guys have been really trying so hard, too. We want to win so badly." 
The third sacker doesn't have any real hitting philosophy, nor does he try to be fancy when playing his position. Still, he'll try anything to keep a winning streak going. 
"If you feel you can hit, you will," he says. "I like to go with the pitch and try to keep my bat­ting swing one fluid motion. 
"Third base is a position of reaction. You have to keep your nose to the ground and keep the ball in front of you with your body. 
"I'm really superstitious, and I'll wear the same shirt as long as we're winning. If we get a big winning streak going, though, I'll be dressing alone." 
Coming to Notre Dame fulfilled Coleman's childhood ambition. This is indeed surprising, par­ticularly since his father, uncle and brother were athletes at Minnesota. 
"It certainly has been a funny four years here," he admits, "but I am happy the way things have 
turned out.
"Specifically, I like the people here at Notre Dame. They're the main part of the school. I've met some really super people here, a lot of them not athletes. Here, everyone pulls for one another. 
"I know it's pretty tight right now, but I sure would like to see us get a tournament bid. And that means I'll have to play as well as I can. 
"Statistics are something you can look at," he concludes, "but they don't always tell how well you're doing. If you're satisfied in your own mind, you're going to be pretty close to your goal." 

PITTSBURGH® PAINTS 
Student Discounts on Latex Wall Paints 
Home Decor Center College square 7'21 W. McKinley Mishawaka, Ind. Ph. 256-1511 Open Mon-Fri 8-6 Sat -8-4 
256-011, 
Cards Books Magazines 
~ 
i 
5 § 
~ ~ 
5 
~ 
§ 
~ 

Thank you I § 
Friday, April 26, 1974· " the observer 15 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
HOUSE PARENTS: Married couple, prefereably without children to live in Girls Group Home. Room and board plus monthly salary. $.400 upw•rd depending on experience. Summer fob with posibillty of continuation. Husband may work or study outside Home. Time off is provided. Call Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233-9491. 
HELP WANTED! OVERSEAS JOBS -Australia, Europe, Sa. America, Africa. Students all professions and occupations $700 to $300 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free information. TRAN­SWORLD RESEARCH CO. Dept. F3 P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
Wanted: 1 or 2 bedroom apartment for married couple. Must be within walking distance of I.U.S.B. Call John 282-1568. 
WINDJAMMER, Jazz-Rock ensemble, looking for ex­perienced bass guitarist for next year. Call now for Aud. Jim 1409. 
Need two riders down to the Kentucky Derby and back. Share gas. Leave May 3, return May 5. Call Mark 3689. 
Need 2 or 3 housemates for large house on the River. Call Morty 3236 or Bob 3373. 
People interested in building a gymnastics club. Call Pat ­8845. 
FOR RENT 
For Summer Rental. Large nice house. 4 bedrooms. Fully furnished. Utilities, washer­dryer included. Approx. $185 a month. 234-1972. 
House For Rent: 4 bedrooms. Newly furnished. Wall to wall carpeting. Close to Campus. Available for Summer and fall ocupency. Graduate students only. Call AI Brasseur. 289-2463 before 5 p.m. 
STUCK HERE FOR THE SUMMER? Apt. for rent; $75 a month, includes utilities and furnishings, Call 232-9578. 
Partially furnished house. May 20 to Sept. 272-6174 Apt. mor­nings, evenings. 
LAST CHANCE: 7 room fur­nished house. 3 bedrooms, 3 or 4 students. $200 per month. You pay electric only 233-5282. 
FOR SALE 
Handmade Indian Turquoise Jewelry from New Mexico. Fine selection of bracelets, rings, watchbands, accesories. Ca II 7833 or drop by 10 Lyons. 
FURNITURE: Living room and bedroom. Excellent condition, reasonable price. Must relocate. Call 272-0456. 
Webcor Stereo. Includes AM­FM Garrard Automatic turn­table-Stereo 8-track-2 Webcor speakers. Excellent sound ­Excellent condition. $325 call 1024. 
Sony STR-110 AM-Fm stereo receiver. Includes Sony TC-121 cassette and speakers. 6 months old. Excellent con­dition. Call 8728. 
Sony trinitron color T.V., solid state KV-1201. Only 6 months old. Excellent condition. Call 8728. 
Panasonic Amp, turntable, 4 speakers -1112 yt. old -nice sound, nice price. Call Steve 234-7848. 
1966 Ford Fairlane. Asking price $375. If interested call Rick Pyfer 234-8052. 
For Sale: Panasonic S-track tapedeck. 1 yr. old -Call Gary 233-4669 or at Observer office. 
Stereo Multiplex. Includes a BSR turntable, stereo 8-track. AM-FM radio, 2 speakers, amplifier, and stand. 6 months old -excellent condition. $120. Call Mark 3689. 
Panasonic -SE990 combination -turntable, AM-FM stereo, cassette 1Air suspended speakers. $140 Dave 3279. 
• .., • ...... """'• ..... '' .. f'••• ~ .. "· ~ ... 1"... '; 

RIDES WANTED 
Desperately need ride to North Jersey-N.Y.C. area. Can leave late aft. May 13 or after. Call Jim 1409. 
Need ride to Cinncinati for two. Leave today, April 26. Please Call Buck 1409. 
PERSONALS ' 
Karlene and Bill Henshaw: Happy First Anniversary. 
Happy Birthday Mary Ellen.Keenen from the N.0.2. Offense. 
B-Pers -Choose r.reaney and Krauss... ! 
ROBERT: The reason why you never get <my mail and no one writes classified ads about you is because no one likes you and you wear socks with your sandels!! 
Polly Purebred. I'm almost sure you didn't expect this. Happy Birthday. Love 72. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Silver medal (Head of Christl on chain. Important memento. Please Call 8653. 
Lost: N.D.ring. Saturday Initials M.K.D. REWARD. $10. Call Marty 8253. 
Lost: '74 class ring yellow gald. Initials P.J.S. REWARD! Call 234-4664. 
NOTICES 

CHEAPEST WAY TO TRAVEL! SCOOTER Britian­Europe. $33 a week. Lam­bretta-seats two. Also Worldwide Overland Camping and lowest air fares. Trail Blazers. TOLL FREE 800-223­5586. 
Experienced typist will do: term papers, manuscripts, etc. Ca II 233-5332. 
SUMMER STORAGE: Reserve space now at Mrs. Cooper's -clean, dry, secure and reasonable. Will pick up outside dorm. 272-3004. 
THE DOMINICANS educators, preachers, pastors, missionaries, counselors. A community of men praying and working together, bringing the Word of the Gospel to the 
spiritual, intellectual and 
social needs of the world today. 
Write to: Rev. Joseph Payne 
O.P., 5 Hill House Avenue, 
New Haven, Conn. 06505. 
GRADUATES: Would you like to teach for two years in Samoa (South Pacific)? See Fr. Schlaver. LaFortune -7308. Other opportunities available. 
Baggage Truck going to New Haven and Southern Con­necticuit. For information. Call Jan 8048. 
MET CLUB: Deposits will be collected; Mon. April 29 McCandless Hall 5-7p.m. Tues. April 30 B-P Lounge 5-7 p.m. Wed. May 1 Morrissey Lounge 5-7 p.m. Bikes, typewriters. golf clubs will not be taken unless deposits are received. For information call Bill Kelly 234­5193. 
LOGAN VOLUNTEERS. 6 
p.m. Dinner, Fri, April 26. For information call Kevin 8926 or Dave 3559. Saturday Rec. 1­
3:30 p.m. 
TAKE CHEAP TR~CK: To New York, for the best results at the lowest prices. Deposits are now being taken in 365 Alumni and 209 St. Ed's. For further information call Mike or Bob at 1248 or Frank at 8823. 
Inexpensive, transatlantic flights to EUROPE and more. Call Shawn. 233-4818. 
Doonesbury, Ansel Adams, backpacking books. Reading laffs, thrills, and chills. In­formation to you from Pan­dora·s Books. 
Get your shoes fixed now, before you go home at TONY'S SHOE SHOP. Also, come in and see our newest item . hand­made samdals. 
;, ........ \• ~. 
' 
.. 
.. 
.. 

16 the observer Friday, April 26, 1974 _ 
_____:--=-------'­
Cold climate fails to cool Jamaica's Brandon Walsh 
by John Fineran Although this might have quite a bit. He is very easy going, disappointed other players, it very popular with the team. He 
Notre Dame is far from the hasn't affected Brandon Walsh. does a real good job, particularly warm climate of Brandon Walsh's He enjoys everything about the with the younger players." famaica. And while the school sport at Notre Dame--everything "I am a Jot more serious this enjoys much notoriety throughout except the weather. year·as captain," Brandon agrees. 
the world, to the Irish tennis "It is kind of hard getting used to "I'm putting more effort into my
,·aptain, it was just another school game because Coach Fallon and
the climate," he admits. "Offour years ago. 
course, I like playing in warmer the team expect it. 
"My father thought I should weather because my blood cir­"I like to show and lead by what I eome here," Walsh says. "It was culates better, and I get loose do on the court. After all, this is kind of a rush thing. Sometimes I quicker. my last year and I look at it as now 
t'ouldn 't remember its name when or never fod1lyself and the team.
"Notre Dame certainly has
people asked me where I was helped my tennis," he joies, "I started playing tennis when I 
going." 
"although it would be great if the was 10 because my friend had a That's no problem now. In fact, school was in California. Still, I've tennis court. My friends in ll'hen Jamaican tennis officials gotten used to playing conditions Jamaica have always been older 
~ought Walsh's help for the here." than me, so I have always been Caribbean Islands' tourney, they There is no joking, however, playing competition more ex-· 
knew where to find him. perienced and stronger. Playing
about the caliber of Walsh's tennis. 
against better competition both at
.. "I would like to compete for the So far, swinging between number 
home and here at Notre Dame has 
Brandon Trophy (the tourney's two and three singles, Brandon has 
helped me improve my game."
prize) because it is from this ::1 fine 11-5 mark for the 11-5 Irish. tournament they choose members "Brandon has a well-rounded The standard of tennis in of the Davis Cup," Walsh con­game," his coach, Tom Fallon Jamaica is lower than in the tinues. "However, whenever I've says. "If he Jacks anything it is a United States. It is not surprising, been offered chances, I've had to killer instinct. therefore, that Walsh won his first refuse them because they con­"Brandon had been shy, but the men's tourney at 16, and also that flicted with school here." captaincy has helped him mature he was ranked the number one 
the NCAA championships at USC." USC, of course, is a California school, and a return trip there (tht:
Backfield strong as starters return 
Irish finished 6-4 on their March excursion) would not bother 
by Greg Corgan make them aware of the fact that the N.D. blue and gold. athlete. At 190 pounds he's got Brandon Walsh one bit. Califor­
Sports Editor they aren't going to win this year "For a good many years," ex­excellent hands, he's nian weather is not known for by merit of what they did last plained Pagna, "the speed went to knowledgeable about the game, he being cool. season. This is one of our biggest the defense unless we felt that the runs well, and he's doing all the 
boy couldn't play defense. That's right things. We're really pleased 
Things just seem to go right concerns.'' when you win, especially if you're For the time being, however, why we had your Clarence Ellis, with him. AI Samuel is another 
Stickmen beat
the national champion. And if there are other concerns for Pagna Nick Rassas, Tom Schoen in the back who was exceptional last you're offensive backfield coach not the least of which are per­secondary. That's also why we had Saturday's scrimmage. He's as Tom Pagna you'd have good fecting once again the machine­the hard, strong running halfbakcs fast as any of our backs. Then we Boilermakers 4-2 
reason to hope things wouldn't like efficiency of the Notre Dame like Denny Allan, and Bill Barz for have Kornman, who could be by George Eckes
change a bit. backfield. instance. playing halfback if I had the luxury 
"This is the only time in my ten "This spring we've tried to "Now we have Penick who we of playing him there and Tom It took four goals from two stick­years here that I can remember emphasize three things," con­feel can only play offerise and Parise who is a little stronger men not known for their scoring having a complete backfield tinued Pagna. "We've worked Bullock the same way. AI Hunter runner.'' prowness, and some scrappy 4th 
returning," offered Pagna. more on the wing back blocking, is a fine athlete and could play Rehind that first group however, quarter defense to put N.D. on top "Wayne Bullock will be back at play action passing, and overall anywhere, but we have enough coach Pagna has a trio of runners of a 8; 7 decision over the Purdue fullback, Eric Penick at one knowledge of play concepts." speed in the defensive secondary, who are just beginning to see a Boilermakers at Stepan Field 
little more action.

halfback, Art Best at the other "For that last reason I can't tell and with our speed backs now, Wednesday. halfback, AI Hunter at what we you how important it is to have an we've relied on a different scheme "We've been working with the Junior Kevin Fogerty and 
group of Paul Linehan, Mark Sophomore Don Trabert eachcall the swing back position, and AI experienced quarterback like Tom of things." 
Samuel as a backup man. Clements who has a great un­That scheme started last season MacLane, and Jim Weiler and pocketed two goals apiece in a "Besides that we have two good derstanding of play conception. I when the backfield of Best, Penick they've done good things this contest which wasn't as close as
• football players behind Bullock at think the highest compliment that and Bullock helped the Irish finish spring. These are the backs who the score might indicate. The first 
fullback, Russ Kornman and Tom was paid to Tom was when his high in the top ten in total offense. really need the spring workouts. half ended with N.D. holding a 4-2 We just have to work with them lead over a Purdue team that is in
Parise. I don't think that barring teammates elected him captain, "Both Penick and Best came 
any injuries we'll be in trouble." because as it is the quarterback is here a little green," said Pagna. and bring them along so that they the midst of a rebuilding year. The saw
The "trouble" Pagna may find the one who usually gets all the ink. "But they're polished now and are ready when needed. That's third quarter the remaining has to do with duplicating last He's got the respect of all the they've got that game experience what happened with Bullock when four goals for Notre Dame go in, season's accomplishments, a task players on the squad, and although behind them. Wayne reads the he was behind <Andy) Huff and while Purdue countered with three that might very well overwhelm a· he mat be the greatest runner, or defenses real well and hits the hole (John) Cieszkowski and he was making it 8-5. Scoring honors, lesser man. But Pagna looks at it long passer, he'll beat you, he's a quickly. A lot of people think he ready when we needed him." besides Fogerty and Trabert, went 
calmly and philosophically. winner.'' more or less lumbers, but they Pagna feels this time is to Rich Caron, Steve Tarnow, Ron "The most difficult time to have Tom may have alittle help. With don't realize how fast he's moving necessary ·being that a backfield Sadowski, and Fedele Volpe. 
position is difficult to adjust to Assists went to Joe Meares and
success is after success," he Penick, Hunter, Best, Bullock, and until they can see him hit those especially as a freshman. Tom Parseghian.
mentions. "It's so important to Samuel the Irish have one of the quick openers." emphasize this to the players, to swiftest backfields to ever dress in "AI Hunter is a phenomenal "In order of difficulty I would The 4th quarter saw a defensive 

say offensive line, quarterback, struggle as the young Purdue team and then the offensive backfield tallied twice while holding the Irish 
present the most problems for a scoreless. 
ft·eshman. With AI Hunter I think Freshman Jay Williams turned 
we brought him along just abour in another good job taking face­
right. We got his feet wet last year offs, winning 11 of 19 from the 
during the season, and he came Boilermakers. 
through for us in the Sugar Bowl. Ken Weight turned in another 
Now he is fairly-well adjusted, admirable job in goal for the Irish 
hitting the holes real well, and in (replacing injured Joe Lepley) 
the scrimmage last Saturday stopping 12 shots en route to the 8-7 
performed exceptionally." win. 
It may be that Tom Pagna has a The season is coming to a close big hand in that quick adjustment for the stickmen. They play because he is genuinely concerned Detroit LaCrosse Club on Saturday with his players. in the Motor City and come back 
"The biggest sin to me is not that May 5 with their last clash against a player I have here didn't play the Falcons of Bowling Green. well, although that would hurt me, but if that player flunked out or dropped out or was cutting a lot of Baseball today classes. An athlete has got to 
The Notre Dame baseball teamrealize that though athletics may 

be important now, in contrast to continues its season this weekend 
what he's going to do after his against lllinois State University. athletic career is over, it's not his The Irish will play a single game whole life." 
this weekend and a doubleheader Saturday before travelling to
The way the Irish backfield Michigan State for a Sunday af­performed on the field last year, ternoon twinbill and Valparaisoand the way they look so far this Monday for an afternoon contest 

Eric Penick Wayne Bullock spring, nobody would ever know.
Art Best against the Crusaders. 







