
OD The Inside 
Off-Campus Burglaries ... page 9 Action Express ... Page 4 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community


Vol. IX No. 31 
Bouffard explains price 

hikein basketball tickets 
by Jim Eder Contributing Editor 
The increase in basketball ticket prices this year was necessitated by the rising expenses of the entire athletic department, according to John Stephens, assistant director of athletics. 
Stephens explained yesterday that the revenue from basketball ticket sales is not used to pay for the costs of the basketball team alone. "The income generated from football and basketball games must pay for the expenses of the entire department," he said. 
"Because these are the only two sports that make money," Stephens continued, "they must finance all the other sports, including our intramural program and club sports." 
Rising Athletic Department Costs 
Stephens insisted that the increase in basketball ticket prices is necessary to meet the rising costs of the department. "This is not a price-gouging operation," he stated. "The department is faced with increasing costs in all sports, in all areas: travel expenses, equipment prices and ACC operating costs," he said. 
"It costs quite a bit to maintain a team on the road," Stephens pointed out. "Airfare has increased at least fifteen percent, food prices are always going up and hotel costs are also high," he said. 
Don Bouffard, ACC ticket manager, emphasized the rising costs of operating the Athletic and Convocation Center. "This increase in expense is due primarily to the inflated price of fuel," he said. 
Stephens emphasized thattheathletic department is not overspending. "Notre Dame runs on a very economical budget," he said. "We have less personnel in our department and give fewer scholarships than most other major colleges." 
Notre Dame gives no scholarships for swimming or fencing, one for baseball and two for wrestling, according to Stephens. Thirty scholarships are awarded for football yearly (the maximum by NCAA ruling), 23 for hockey and a maximum of 18 for basketball, Stephens explained. 
"The athletic departments of many public schools are operating in the red, but they can afford to because they are tax supported," Stephens noted. "Notre Dame doesn't receive such assistance, os we must try to stay in the black," he said. 
First Increase Since 1968 
Bouffard pointed out that basketball ticket prices have not been raised since 1968, while both football and hockey prices were increased last year. 
"This is the seventh basketball season in the ACC. During these years costs have risen steadily, yet until now ticket prices have never bPen raised," Bouffard said. "In order to meet our rising costs, we must have some finanLial support from the students," he insisted. 
"There are two alternatives open for financing our costs," Bouffard explained. "One is charging students for basketball and hockey tickets. The other is imposing a flat ACC fee on all students," he said. 
"Charging for student tickets is the Jesser of the two evils," Bouffard said. "A flat ACC fee charged to the each student's bill, I am sure, would cause a much greater financial hardship on the student," he explained. 
"Ideally, we would like to see student_s attend basketball and hockey games free of charge," Bouffard said, "but this is not possible. We can do this for football games, because football is very profitable here, but the other two sports are not," he stated. 
Decision made last Spring 
Bouffard .explained that the decision to raise the price of basketball tickets was made according to the same procedure used in setting all athletic ticket prices. The four-member ticket committee sends a price recommendation based on past and projected expenses, to the Atheltic Board for approval. 
The ticket committee consists of Athletic Director Edward Krause, Business Manager of Athletics Robert Cahill, Stephens and Bouffard. The Athletic Board is headed by Fr. Ed­mund Joyce, executive vice president. 
The basketball ticket price increase wasrecommende<.land approvedlatelast spring, ac­cording to Stephens. 
Across the Board Increases 
Bouffard emphasized that the basketball ticket prices were raised "all across the board." Individual tickets are now $5 for box, $4 for lower arena, and $3 for bleacher seats. representing an increase of $1 each over last year's prices. 
Student season passes are $28 for lower arena (an increase of $1 per game) and $21 for bleacher seats (an increase of 50 cents per game). This policy differs from that used last year, in which all students paid the same rate ($14) for tickets, and upperclassmen sat in the lower arena. 
Bouffard said that the policy was changed, "because we felt it was unfair, in light of the higher prices, to charge the same for padded and bleacher seats." 
Season tickets are alsoavailatiJefor faculty and staff members at $28 for lower arena and $21 for bleachers. These prices represent the standard 50 per cent discount given to faculty and staff members on all athletic tickets, according to Bouffard. Last year these tickets sold for $22.50 and were restricted to the lower arena. 
Season passes for the general public cost $50 and $30. Previously they were $40 and $23 for lower arena and bleachers respectively. Last year's family discount plan has been drop­ped. No special season tickets are withheld for alumni. 
A maximum of 5000 student season tickets, of which 1,900 are in the lower arena will be sold, according to Bouffard. Although he does not expect the demand to exceed this limit, Bouffard has provided for a lottery to govern sales to freshmen. 
"If it looks like we ·will' run out of tickets on the last day of sales when freshmen come," Bouffard explained, "we will take their money and IBM application card, but retain the tickets. If the 5,000-ticket limit is exceeded, we will hold a lottery, giving tickets to the winners and returning the money to the others," he said. 
(refer to page 3) 
l 
Thursday, October 10, 1974 

Hesburgh states salary supplement 
by Pat Flynn Starr Reporter 
A $600 faculty salary supplement was announced by Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, University President at the annual President-faculty meeting held yesterday, in Washington Hall. 
The salary increase adds up to a 11.5 million dollar university ex­penditure. In addition, the facutly raise will be mirrored by increased retirement benefits for non-academic university employees. Ac­cording to Hesburgh the decision to grant the salary bonus was discussed this past June, at a conference of high administrative of­ficials, Board of Trustees members, and Academic Deans at Lan­d'O'Lakes. 
Hesburgh also announced during his address the institution of Endowment Fund C, a fund to be used by faculty members for ex­perimental academic projects and not requiring annual outlay. This fund is being instituted through surplus athletic income. Drawn from past years athletic profits, this fund will start at 2.5 million dollars. 
The North Central Accredidations report on Notre Dame was also disclosed by Hesburgh. The report contained 7 points of criticism and six of praise, which will be discussed by the Board of Trustees. 
Hesburgh himself ventured a note of self-critism in his reference to the university's continuing lack of progress in minority involvement. Hesburgh revealed that this year the university had decreased from 69 to 65 women faculty members. Had increased black faculty memebers from 11 to 15 and decreased in the number of all other minority faculty from 35 to 32. 
Reasons for Salary Increase 
In commenting on the faculty salary increase, Hesburgh indicated that the raise was made in order to ... "ease the effects of inflation." 
The supplement will raise the present salary increase per year of Notre Dame faculty members to about 9 per cent this year. Hesburgh said, however, that the supplement would not be incorporated into the faculty salary base. He pledged that "as budget meetings for next year begin, it will be our urgent mandate to provide cost of living in­creases for all of the faculty." 
The source of the supplement is a surplus of operating funds left over from the 73-74 school year. 
Hesburgh's announcement of the salary increase was made in the context of other general remarks concerning the use of financial resources at Notre Dame. He noted that when he had first taken his job as President of the University in 1952, NotreDamehad a "dismal operating budget" and "miserable <faculty) salaries. Since that time Notre Dame's operating budget has increased about ten times. from 6 to 60 million. 
This increase was the result of extensive building programs in­cluding O'Shaughnessy Hall. Memorial Library. Niewland Science, Math and Computing Center and the Life Science Building. For the present, Hesburgh does not foresee new buildings. The University will instead "look for the creative use of renewing buildings." he said. Hesburgh also indicated hopes that the Engineering building can be rennovated and renewed. The cost of this he estimated at :l million. 
l'Oew Endowed Chairs 
Hesburgh claimed that the most difficult financial problem was endowment. Endowment is gift-money which a university does not directly use but which is placed as capital in some securities in­vestment. The interest earned off this investment, is used 1o finance annually the salary of some member of the faculty. or some other annual university expense. 
Notre Dame's present endowment according to Hesburgh is "about .. the same as Yale's at the end of World WarII." He warned. however that endowments in religious institutions are a very neglected item.'' "I would say that we have adecentendowment today compared with 

l
many insitutitions, but no where near the level needed to insure the future of our university and its future growth," he added. 
In conjunction with the theoretical remarks concerning the university's need for a large endowment, Hesburgh announced the establishment of sixteen endowed professor ships in the Univerity's four colleges and Law School. The endowed chairs are in Biology, 

l 
l 
(continued on page 3) 
Thursday, October 10, 1974
the observer 

warld briefs 
TEL AVIV <UPil--Reinforced Israeli troops Wednesday dispersed hundreds of religious Jews who had forced their way onto the Israeli-occupied West Bank of the Jordan River to try to establish unauthorized settlements. 
SAIGON <UPil-North Vietnamese troops lost 138 killed during an attack against government infantry defending Highway 1 southeast of Hur, 390 miles north of Saigon, the military command said Wednesday. 
RENO, Nev. <UPI>-A University of Nevada coed who wore a sexyjumperto class has been cleared of indecent exposure charges filed against her for sporting the same outfit at a school dance. 
Laura Ann Bode, 23, said the whole case was ridiculous and "a waste of everybody's time." Municipal Judge Robert Hibbs dismissed the charges after the District Attorney's office said the situation would be better handled by the university. 
University police chief Keith Shumway said the jumper consisted of a dress held up by two skimpy straps and it only covered the essentials of Ms. Bode's upper torso. 
Ms. Bode said the jumper had not caused any problems when she wore it to class. 
an campus taday 
3:00 p.m.--preliminary meeting, citizens energy coalition, con­ducted through lnplrg, lobby of law school 
4:00 
p.m.--colloquium, "subjective reactions to accented speech" by ellen ryan, rm. 117, haggar hall 

4:00 
p.m.--lecture, "the radiation chemical basis of radiobiological events" by prof. franklin hutchinson of yale, con. rm. of rad. lab. 


4:30 p.m.--lecture, "summary of the recent total cross-section measured at fermi national laboratory," rm. 180 nieuwland sci. 
center  
4:30 p.m.--reception, navy celebration center  of 199 birthday, stepan  
4:30  p.m.--colloquium,  "cohomogy  of  arithmetic,  groups  and  

values of zeta-functions," rm. 226 comp. cent. & math bldg. 
7:00 p.m.--meeting, state-wide citizens energy coalition, held at catholic center, 120 south taylor street, south bend 
7:30 
p.m.--assistant dean of admissions, unlv. of chicago law school, library aud. 

7:30 
-9:30 p.m.--lecture, "bubble-baby," by raphael wilson of baylor college of medicine, galvin science center aud. 


8 & 10 p.m.--film, "slddhartha," In eng. aud. 
8:00 
p.m.--recital, jamle massa and patty cahalan, call 7054 for tickets, little theater 

8:00 
p.m.--drama, "look homeward angel" presented by nd-smc theatre o'laughlin auditorium 




011-ccunpus food co-ops co:rnpared 
by Mike Rizzo Starr Reporter 
A preliminary report on basic alternatives for the Notre Dame food co-op has been forewarded to Student Body President Pat McLaughlin by Off-Campus Commissioner Stan Cardenas. 
The report summarizes an in­formation-gathering survey conducted by Cardena~ of existing co-op programs at other major universities_ The two major programs investigated were the co-op plan at the University of Dayton and the North American Student Co-op Organization <NASCO>. 
The NASCO group informed Cardenas of the various svstems and types of operations possible in a Notre Dame food co-op. The organization expressed a willingness to extend its services to Notre Dame if the student government co-op joins the organization. 
NASCO will provide technical consultation and management training for the new co-op. The group has already given Cardenas information about the techniques of wholesale purchasing. 
Cardenas also obtained in­formation from Fr. Middendorf about the organization of the University of Dayton's food co-op. Pat McLaughlin is expected to revise and foreward a copy of the report to the administration within several davs. 



Cushing reacts to speech 
By Bill Brink Senior Night Editor 

•Charging a failure by Fr. Hesburgh to directly address the faculty salary issue, Prof. James Cushing, chairman of the Faculty Senate, expressed disappointment with the increase in raculty 
1 
salaries announced by the un{ver 
sity  President  in  his  speech  
yesterday afternoon.  
Cushing  said  that  the  report  

submitted by the Faculty Senate last week requesting a $1,200 raise for faculty members was aimed at securing a true salary 'mcrease He termed Hesburgh's $600 allotment a "bonus, a Christmas gift." 
"Fr. Hesburgh didn't really meet or discuss our requests," 
Sexual Offenses committee meets in IVJcOindless 
by Chris Meehan Starr Reporter 

A member of the Women's Committee of Sex Offenses met with students last night in the Trunk Room of McCandless Hall in order to increase public awareness of its services and to interest both male and female students in becoming involved in their work. 
Members of this committee run a Sexual Offense Service--called 
S.O.S. which is a cns1s in­tervention service for victims of sexual offenses such as rape and some cases of child abuse. The staff sponsors a 24-hour a day Hot­Line to provide emotional support as well as legal and medical in­formation for rape victims. Members of the staff may ac­company the victims to the hospital for any police question­ning and medical exams, and even to court if necessary. 
Volunteers for this service are desperately needed and, if enough people sign up, a training session can be set up within ten weeks. Anyone interested in helping may call the Hot-Line number---282­2323, or may meet with a representative next Wednesday, October 16 at 6:30p.m. at LeMans Hall. 
The Observer is published dally during the college seme~~ter excep1 vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame .,d St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

Cushing said. "Nothing new was revealed." 
The chairman said Hesburgh's speech was more of an explanation of what was being done with the budget rather than a real response to the specific question of faculty salaries. 
"Hesburgh didn't nor has the administration, made any response to our request. He didn't really address the issue." 
Referring to the report sub­mitted by the Faculty Senate Cushing said: "I think we tried to make a reasonable case for the $1200 raise. That figure was not picked at random. We were not seeking a gift," he added. 
Cushing said that Hesburgh's representation tended to give the impression that the money for the full $1200 increase is not there. He pointed out that there is, in fact, $2 million in discretionary funds. 
"The money is there," he said. "it's a matter of priorities of what to use it for." 
Cushing said he felt Hesburgh had, in effect, made the decision that other priorities exist, par­ticularly using the money to build up the endowment fund. 

"Basically," Cushing said, "Its a priority decision, and the number one project is building en­dowments.' Unfortunatlely, this is done at the cost of the faculty." 

Toward the end of the president's address, Cushing rose from his •Seat and left Washington Hall. He conceded he was dissatisfied with the speech and said he considered leaving earlier, but did not want to miss anything important. 
"I was disappointed. We were told the same old thing over again," Cushing said. 
Regarding any response the faculty might have to the speech Cushing said: "It's up to the faculty whether or not they will continue to be satisfied by statements like this." 
He said that it's largely up to the faculty what to do now. There will be a Senate report towards the end of October that the faculty will have to consider before they decide on any course of action. 
YOU rAN SPRfAD lFIE.ME$AGE OF ~E.•.lFIE LO~E OF CHRIST FOR ALL PEOPLE. 
Have you ever considered tile pnesthood as a way 
to serve people? The Paul1st Fathers are a small 
community of American priests. Progressive. searching. 
young and energetic, they form a relig1ous family. 
A Paulist IS a man of the Spirit, a man of his t1me. 
He rejoices in the s1gns of hope around him and 
celebrates with the people he serves. 
Every Paulist is a m1ssionary: in the pulpit. or pansh 
house, on the campus, in the inner-city. He communi· 
cates with the spoken word, the printed page, and w1th 
contemporary med1a. His mission 1s to all of America. 
His message is love; t11e love of Christ for all people. 
for more information send for The Paulist Papers Write to: father Don C. Campbell, Room 100 
PAULISF 
FAlHERS 
WfEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake' Wawasee. l Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189  



Di.ning halls to close 
Residence halls to remain open over break 
by Dan Reimer tradition for this break so we really The only food service during the discourage students from regular contract basis would Staff Reporter don't know." The Student Affairs break will be a pay cafateria at the remaining on campus during the penalize those students who leave Office is presently in the process of South Dining Hall and the Huddle. break. Ackerman observed, "To campus by forcing them to pay for Residence Halls will remain taking a survey through the hall On Sunday, Oct. 27 the North keep the dining halls open on a meals they won't receive." 
open during the mid-semester staffs to get an estimate of the Dining Hall will be closed and the break, Oct. 25-Nov. 3 according to number of students who plan to South Dining Hall will open on a Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of stay over the break. cash basis. The regular contract staff development. Each rector "There will probably be some schedule will resume wih the will be responsible for the sort of system of locking the evening meal on Sunday, Nov. 3. proceedure in their halls for halls," Ackerman stated. "This Ed Price, director of food ser­students remaining on campus problem is a normal security vices, stated "It's been my ex­problem over a long break and will perience that many students don't 
over the break. 
be individually handled by each stay around during breaks." He
Ackerman commented that he 
hall." stressed, however, that there
was "at a loss to anticipate the 
Ackerman explained, "In the would be adequate service
number of students who might 
past the halls have been locked and available regardless of the number 
remain over the break." He cited 
each remaining student given a of students remaining on campus.
such factors as the high cost of 
key." Price emphasized that any
gasoline and air transportation as 
Ackerman commented he prediction concerning the number
possible obstacles to student 
personally liked the lengthened of students who might use the pay
travel, remarking, "Many factors 
break "because of a much more cafeteria over the break was "only
operate against travel right now." 
relaxed atmosphere when the speculation."
"Some students might visit other 
students are away and the rest it Ackerman commented that a
campuses or friends," said 
provides." pay cafeteria was not being used to
Ackerman, "but there is no 

ND students react to Bouffard 
over last year's tickets. The Notre Student Body President Pat "During the year the University hall government will organize toby Mary Fran Hayes Dame students have been alloted McLaughlin intends to meet with has taken away our freedoms and discuss supporting the boycott.
Staff Reporter 5000 tickets and St. Mary's Father Edmund Joyce, executive this is the last straw," stated Rich Concern for St. Mary's studentsNineteen students out of 43 polled students have been alloted 278. vice president of the University Morton, Fisher hall president. was expressed by Ivan Brown,

yesterday opposed the price in­Student opinion varied from concerning the ticket situation. He "The student body should organize Holy Cross hall president. "Onlycrease of basketball tickets and will also talk with Bouffard and and do something about this. I will giving 278 tickets to St. Mary's is, "My parents are saying so whysaid they would not buy them. 
Coach Digger Phelps tomorrow. get the HPC working on it," he cutting out quite a chunk. Even
should I care?" to "It's absurd,Thirteen were undecided, while 
commented. though they are a separate school, students shouldn't take this."
nine stated they would purchase McLaughlin feels that if the 
Father Richard Conyers, Notre Dame is still their team.
Several students felt that they
the tickets at $28.00, and two would students "spend their energies on a Keenan Hall rector and Father Even worse than the price is thewould not be able to afford tickets
buy the $21.00 bleacher tickets. boycott now they will be all talked 
William Presley, St. Edward's restriction of the number ofDon Bouffard, ticket manager, and other felt that restricting the out by Nov. 4, the date the tickets Hall rector felt that athletics are tickets," he continued.
tickets was unfair.
announced a raise in student go on sale." McLaughlin stated, for the students, and they should be St. Mary's Junior, Jamie Massa season tickets, $21 for bleacher Signs have been posted on however, that if the ticket prices do given priority. These rectors feel felt that this was just another caseseats and $28 for lower arena seats. campus urging students to boycott not go down he will favor the that the students should negotiate of "edging St. Mary's out."
This is an increase of 100 per cent the purchase of basketball tickets. boycott. 
with the people responsbile and Of the ten freshmen polled, only hopefully come to an un­one replied that she would buy a derstanding. season ticket, and if there were Conyers stated that a 100 per any lower arena seats available,


Salary supplemented 
cent increase is uncalled for "since she would pay the $28. the students are already paying Three freshmen stated that they large sums in other areas." If were undecided because of theChemistry, Electrica professor-ship endowment funds. to spend the greatest portion of hiS prices remain the same, Conyers price. Four freshmen saidEngmeering, English, Gover­These included a one million dollar time on University affairs. He favors the boycott, and the Keenan definitely not because of the price. 
nemtn, and International Studies, library endowment fudn. indicated that until his job with the Annette Grende replied, "No,History, Mathematics, Philosophy, Hesburgh hopes this figure be board was one he would have to partly because of the price, andSociology and Anthropology, gradually increased to ten or rely even more on Jim (Fr. Burt­Public library partly because I feel that a lotteryEngineering, Business Ad­twenty million; a faculty children chaell, provost), and Fr. Joyce, 
for the freshmen is unfair."
ministration, Medieval Studies, endowment fund--to insure a vice-president, to administer the Adonna Moede echoed this sen­and two in Theology. financila base for the college University in my absence." cnmounces sale timent also.
Most of the chairs are the result eucation of deceased Notre Dame Hesburgh explained his mem­A majority of the sophomoresof the "Summa" development faculty members; and a minoity bership on the board, stating he questioned were concerned about 
program. in which gifts for the student endowment fund to assist "hoped to be clement where others The South Bend Public Library the price. "I'm really not sure ifendowed chairs were shought, financially figted minority were punitive." Hesburgh thought will hold a book sale of library 
I'll purchase one because of the
Hesburgh explained. students. the work of the board "important discards and surplus gift books and 
price. If they were $13, I'd buy
The endowed chairs will not be because of the 50 thousand military records on Saturday, October 12, 
them right away. If I do buy afor new faculty positions. Rather Remarks on work with Clemency deserters during the Vietnam War from 9 am to 5 p.m. 
season ticket it will definitely be
Hesburgh hoped that these chairs, Board and the 200 thousand draft 
the $13 seat," explained Dan
supported by endowment income, evaders."
At the opening of the Hesburgh The sale will take place in the Castellani.
would free funds in the operating talked about his work wit "The work of this committee," Sophomore Mary Bloom stated
basement of the Main Library, 122
budget for general faculty President Ford's Clemency Board. Hesburgh said, "is the only way West Wayne Street. Entrance to that, "even if my parents were 
salaires. He expressed hopes that his work that many of these boys will paying for them, I don't think it's
the book sale will be from the alley 
Hesburgh also announced the with the board would be a short beprevented from going through fair for the rest of the students."
on the east side of the building at
establishemtn of a number of non-endeavor, allowing him to return life, convicted felons." All surveyed juniors stated that
the rear. 
they were against the price in­Books and records will be 25 crease, however some were going
South Dining Hall rally protests 
cents each. Magazines, pamphlets to buy the $28 ticket. and pocket books and children's The seniors polled stated that books under 50 pages will be $0.10 they will not buy tickets and if they 
each. do, they will forfeit hockey tickets.
basketball ticket price increase 
by Andy Praschak crowd watched Thompson resume students to show our unity in thisStaff Reporter 

his speech from a chair, as matter," he said. He is also directed by a dining hall official. organizing a picket line outside the An impromptu rally, Jed by a 
"Have a nice season but twenty­A.C.C., the week of NovemberDillon Hall senior, was held in the 
eight dollars means we won't be fourth, when the initial ticket sales south dining hall yesterday, to there," he concluded. begin.
protest the rise in cost of student In addition to his speech in the Thompson later took his speechbasketball tickets. 
dining hall, Thompson announced to the other side of the dining hall, Jeff Thompson, perched on a plans for a mass petition compaign where he was greeted by an eventable in the middle of the dining to lower the prices. "We hope to more entnusiastic crowd ofhall, summoned the attention of his 

get_:=ts many as 5,000 signatures of cheering students.
student audience. "I feel the urge and great need for the entire student body to express their displeasure with the season basketball ticket cost," he began. 
Thompson went on to call the 100 per cent increase in cost "ludricrous". Suggesting that the students take a stand, he insisted that an immediately boycott of tickets is necessary. "If this in­crease is tolerated, they will be taking away our football passes in 
the near future," he warned. 
The bewildered but enthusiastic 
ST. MARY'S WOMENS Q-IOIR 
presents 

FUNNY GIRL 
People \Nho see FUNNY GIRL are the 'luckiest people in the w:>rld' 

Sun. Oct. 13 6:00 8:30 11:00 
Carroll Ha II-/VQdeleva Sf\/C.


Admission $1.00 

HELD OVER
·1 
* * * * * * 
Friday at 7:45, 9:45 
. \R\ 

sat. & Sun. 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 . Mon-Thurs. 7:45, 9:45 


71L~ZING S~DDLBS' 
from the people who gave you "The Jazz Singer" 
STARTS TOMORROW WINNER OF 6ACADEMYAWARDS! 
,:1_ DOCTOR ZHIVAGO 
TIMES ARE: Fri.atB:OO Sat & Sur •. Jt 2:00, 8:00 Mon-Thurs. at 7:15 
.J,, 


Uuile~ ~uuse t=lix 
Tw•n • neaT res -100 ~.Rnter ~:omplex -Mishawaka Phone 255-9 575 -Adults $2.00, Child .75 
the observer Thursday, October 10, 1974 
Republicans and Dem>crats opposed 
Ford's 5 per cent surtax proposal felt unfair 
By DAVID NAGY 

WASHINGTON (UPI) Republicans and Democrats alike opposed President Ford's 5 per cent surtax proposal Wednesday as an unfair blow to middle-income Americans that cuts too deep down the wage scale. 
House and Senate committees opened hastily called hearings on various aspects of Ford's anti -inflation proposals Wednes­day, with cabinet members summoned to defend the surtax idea, unemployment benefit projects and other requests put forth by Ford Tuesday. 
Congressional reaction to Ford's overall economic recov­ery package ranged hom lukewarm support to outright criticism, and it focused mainly on Ford's request for a one­year, 5 per cent surcharge on corporate incomes, family in­comes above $15,000 and individual incomes above $7,500. 

1 was planning to spend the mid-semester break here, but if the dining halls are going to be closed I might have to change my plans. Do you know if they will be closed for break? 
The dining halls will be closed for break. Their last meal will dinner on Saturday October 26 which will be served in both the North and South dining halls. Meals will resume with dinner on Sunday, November 3 in both the North and South dining halls. The pay cafeteria in the South dining hall and The Huddle will be open over the break for those wishing to remain here. For those who want a change there is always the South Bend restaurants and drive-ins. Lastly, some of the halls have kitchenettes, which are at the disposal of the expert and novice cheifs of the halls. So there should be no problem in getting something toea t over break. 
I need some background in classical music for my music course. Are there any radio stations in the area that specialize in classical music? 
There are three recommended classical music radio stations in the area that shouldn't be too hard to get. If you have a good antenna on your radio you could get WFMT in Chicago which has excellent music. If your radio can't receive from that great a distance our very own WSND FM or WAUS in Springs Indiana have superb classical music broadcasts continuously. 
Who gets the profits from the vending machines in our hall, the hall itself? 
The profits from all the vending machines go to the University, who in turn uses them to hold down the increasing costs of tuition,. and rom and board. 
NOTE: The Ombudsman Service is offering its services to the Notre Dame Community weekdays 9:30 to 5:00 and Monday through Thursday evenings 10:00 to midnight. Call 7638 for help. 


'DILLONAPOLIS 5' 
a bicycle race sponsored by 
Dillon 1-bll 
Sun.,Oct.13 
1st Prize-$40 2nd Prize-$20 3rd Prize -$10 
so~ registration fee 
Contestants race against the cloc 
I interested contact Tom Rohma 127 Dillon ph. 1601 (postponed last Sunday because of rain) 
Senate  Democratic  leader  "It's  far  too  little  in  it's  President  walks  to  church.  
Mike  Mansfield  and  Sen.  impact,"  he  said,  and  suggest­ That's a good example."  
Charles Percy, R-Dl., both said Wednesday morning they sup­ported the surtax approach but  ed Ford crack down on "very, very big price increases" in steel, nonferrous metals, chemi- In their initial reactions to the surtax proposal, many senators and House members  
felt the minimum income levels subject to the tax should be raised.  cals and oil. "I'd like to see an example" of self-sacrifice, Proxmire said.  opposed starting the tax at the $15,000 family income level. Those who said it should be  
"I'd  like  to  see  the  federal  raised  to  $20,000  or  more  
Mansfield, reflecting  the opin­ bureacrats give  up  their  limou­ included  Sen.  Jacob  Javits,  R- 
ion  of  many  Congressmen  who  sines  (and)  the  President  set  N.Y.,  Rep.  Wayne  Hays,  D- 
commented  on  the  same  issue  the pace in  walking places  and  Ohio,  Sen.  George  McGovern,  
Tuesday, said the  surtax  should  in not using the big jet planes."  D-S.D.,  and  Sen.  Hubert  Hum- 
apply  to  families  earning  at  "Well,  Percy  said,  "the  phrey, D-Minn.  

~ee~s: :~~·~ i~di:~~als$~~~in: f:f:{:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::j:;: at least $15,000 a year. ::::: l-lave a BIG appetite? :::: 






~~~~~:~:~E:~.,! ..1\;EI I
visi \". before Congress adjourns this::;:~ A-or's' BIG so~ RESTAURANT:i_.=·.=_.=i_.==.=..::
year. He said Congress might·:;:;: I"'\£' ' I complete action on i':lcreased :11i~ S 2 8 6 0 U S 3 1 N 0 r t h 
unemployment benefits and:::: • • ·:·: ~~~C:v~r. housing assistance,jjj~ TRY OUR COUNTRY FRIED GIO<EN iiij Mansfield called Ford'_s ove-:~~i(SPECIALS Q\J lUESDAY AND THURSDA~!i! 
rall package "a move m the;:;: •I 1:::: right direction but not any-':;:; ;:;: where near strong enough. us ai:i: Phone 272-9720 for carry~ service :i:: good start, but the bullet has:;:; ~=: not been bitten.'' :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::8::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::.~;:;: 
Sen. Barry Goldwater, R­Ariz., gave Ford some of the most outspoken backing for his proposals, even though he said "there were some I wasn't crazy about myself ... 
"I am ashamed at the partisanship some of my colleagues are displaying in this greatest of all peacetime domes­tic crises that has ever hit the United States. This is a time of emergency which requires emergency measures -many of which I would not think of supporting in normal times." 
Percy, appearing on the NBC Today program with Sen. William Proxmire, D-Wis., said Ford's proposals were "a good beginning" even though the surtax would effect incomes at too low a level. But Proxmire criticized the whole thurst of the program. 

men'' hai• 1tyl1ng 
men's hair Stylin 
~,-,cz(;i,. Bt,Zin 
WHATEVER THE STYLE
• 
2SS·8600 •e~[]["":]~ ----­
I

~S" . 
~~ ''\\s\S 
s\1 
HAIR CARE FOR MEN 
TOWN & COUNTRY MIN.I MALL--MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544 



--------.......-------~-------------------------·-----~---------------­
Thursday, October 10, 1974 the observer 





Madison mayor speaks on urban problems 
Solgin: All levels of government should work at alleviating urban problems. 




HOMECOMING 
PLENTY OF FOOTBALL & HOMECOMING PACKAGES AVAILABLE AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
FRIDAY 
SATURDAY 
PEP RALLY 7:00 N.D. vs. RICE 1 :30 GORDON CABARET PARTY LIGHTFOOT 8:30 ST. JOE, MICHIGAN 
BUSES LEAVE CIRCLE BEGINNING AT 7:30 $6.00/COUPLEI MUSIC BY WIND 
~======-CASUAL DRESS COME AS YOU ARE
Directions to Silver Beach are available
ICKETS AVAILABLE AT STUDENT 

at the Student Union Ticket Office
UNION TICKET OFFICE & A.C.C. 


by Gregg Bangs Staff Reporter 

Housing, transportation and health are the major problems facmg American cities, acccording to Paul Solgin, mayor of Madison, Wisconsin. Speaking before a small crowd at Washington Hall, Soglin warned that all levels of government should work at alleviating the problems in these areas. 
"At the rate our society is going , in twenty years, if not ten, the single family home is going to go the way of the horse and buggy," the 27 year old mayor predicted. "Right now, most everybody is going to have a very dificult time finding a home." 
"It used to be that a family could spend 25 per cent to 30 per cent of its yearly income on housing," he continued. "That would mean a family making $20,000 a year could afford to spend five to six thousand on a house a year that cost $45,000 and still live comfortably." But with the rise of inflation, Soglin argued, there is no way a family making $15,000 a year can afford to buy a $30,000 house. "The only way a person can afford to do that is not eat. That is the only viable way of getting around it." Soglin said. 
Soglin cited the plight of those in 
the lower economic class brackets. 
"With no more subsidized housing, 
public revenue sharing or public 
housing, lower middle class and 
lower class people are in bad sh­
ape What do you tell them'?" 
Soglin said. 
The answer, according to Soglin, 
lies in local government. 1 stated 
that the federal housing projects 
that have been, or will be discontinued, should be continued by state and local government. 
Soglin was a 1966 graduate of the University of Wiconsin. In 1968, at the age of 22, he became the youngest member ever to serve on the Madison City Council. After serving on the council for five years, he ran successfully for the Madison mayorality in 1973. Throughout that campaign, his youth became an issue in his campaigns. 
Soglin traced the problems of transportation back to the 1950's. "It looks quite conclusive that the automobile manufacturers were mainly responsible for thepurchase and acquisition of the major public transportation systems, which they then proceded to close down. Los Angeles is an excellent example of this. By 1955, automobile sales are at a record high." Soglin explained. 
"No wonder that there is gas 
crisis now, and that people are 
concerned about public tran­
sportation,"' Soglin continued. He 
sees no help coming from the 
federal government to improve 
public transportation. 
"Various administrations have 
been telling us to save energy, but 
just yesterday, the House Rules 
Committee killed a $11 billion 
transportation bill for public 
transit," Soglin contrasted. 
Soglin stated that transportation 
is a problem of huge proportions. 
For example, In Madison, 
Wisconsin five million people a 
year in 1970 used public tran­
sportation. Today there are over 
seven and one-half million using 
the systems. He noted that this 
increase is happening throughout 
the country and should ser· as an 
omen that serious attention should 
be placed on working out a viable means of public transportation. 
Soglin observed that health was "all but ignored in this country". He pointed out that while many health plans are being considered in Congress, mainly by Ted Kennedy and Wilbur Mills, all of them deal with the killers such as cancer. "What we need more of is prohibitive medicine," Soglin said. 
Americans should be required to take part in a preventive health care program, he stated. In this program, Americans would be required to have a medical checkup every six months. 
"This program could quite possibly save an American a good deal of money," Soglin stated. "More importantly, it could save him from a debilitating injury, or quite possibly death--and I know of no amount of money that can pay the price of death." 
Betty Ford's sudden operation 
for breast cancer was quite ironic 
"Nobody is going to say her life 
was saved from being the wife of 
the President. She found out about 
her cancer from a clinic," Soglin 
said. 
Soglin mentioned that a clinic 
similar to the one Betty Ford went 
to was being run in Puget Sound, 
Washington. "The clinic requires 
that everybody gets a check-up at 
least once every six months. Since 
its inception, medical costs in that 
town have been reduced by twenty 
per cent," he pointed out. 
Soglin mentioned that Madison 
City Council had just passed a 
resolution supporting complete 
and unconditional amnesty. He 
rejected any arguments against 
amnesty as "illogical", because 
the Vietnam War had no legal 
basis. 
"Despite all the manipulations 
that took place in the last ten years, no matter how you look at it, Congress never declared war. How can you expect people to take up arms against a country they're not legally at war with'?" Soglin reasoned. 

"The idea of subjecting the deserters to a amnesty board is ludicrous. How can a group of men who illegally sent young men into an illegal war pass a fair judgment on men who defied their illegal actions'?" Soglin said. 
Soglin also had a comment on the general state of the economy. "All you have to do is look at what the President has said the last two days and you know there is ab­solutely no one at any level of _government who knows what the hell to do with the economy," he said. 
On the issue of busing, he com­mented that there had been busing for years in Madison and no one had ever made a big deal out of it. "We had to bus people to keep schools open. We might bus people a few miles, but not a great distance. And the reaction to our 
•busing has been nothing like '.Boston." 
Soglin was in favor of gun con­trol. "Excepting sporting pur­poses, I see no reason for a person having a gun. The cities in America that have the strongest gun control laws usually have the lowest homicide rate. I think that is good enough reason to support gun control laws," he said. 
At the conclusion of his presentation, Soglin invited Notre Dame students up to Madison "I think you'll like the changes that have taken place in the downtown area," he stated. "And the drinking age is eighteen." 
,, 
. ?">. 

-·-.. ---­
--------~ 

mantezuma•s ravwng•l-nniiiiUM


!HE .OBSERU£R 


·A~' INtlEPENIYENl STI.IOFNT NEWS~APER 
EDITORIALS: 213-&Ul NEWS: 213-1715 BUSINESS: 283-747i TOm Drape · · Edl_tor-ln-CMef
Fred Graver 
M.rttne'tloz •. 
Editorial Editor 
M.r~~~g•fti Ecnt.r 
.6ob Zogas 
Terry Keeney Bob-McM.nus
Business,Mctno:ger 
News EdHOr 
". AdvertisingM......... ' OCtober 10, 1974 
---·----------'-'-'--­


ACC Follies -1974 
"We won't be there anymore," has been the initial student reaction to the sudden and unexplained 100 per cent increase in student season basketball tickets. Shocked and outraged, students are organiziang petition drives, demonstrations, and a possible ticket boycott as a reaction to the unexpected price hike. Adn what else could be ex­pected? Did Ticket Manager Donald Bouffard and the rest of the Ticket Committee that fixes prices really expect the students to obligingly accept this slap in the face? 
After providing the measure of student support and school spirit that over­whelmed players, coaches, opponents and even national magazines, the students were rudely awakened by an impersonal and sketchy press release that rewarded their faith and support by doubling the cost of their tickets. So what else is new? This kind of inconsideration and unfair treatment of the students by the University bureaucracy is almost as traditional as pep rallies and school spirit. But that doesn't excuse it by any means. 
The administration and-or athletic department owes the students a fair and full explanation for the price increase. If this cannot be provided, an immediate change in policy that reduces student ticket prices is an obligation. 
As for the full and fair explanation, don't hold your breath. In response to questions from the Observer, Bouffard and John Stevens, Assistant Director of Athletics, did nothing but muddle the issue. According to them, inflation and increased costs have made necessary the increase in basketball ticket prices. This would seem to imply that the added revenues will be used to defray athletic expenditures and operate the ACC. Not so, however. As a matter fo fact, Father Hesburgh yesterday announced that a new 'Endowment C' fund is being initiated to finance "precise academic proiects within the University." 
And where will the money for this Endowment come from. The funds will be taken from the surplus in athletic funds tha the University has collected, according to Hesburgh. 
The logical conclusion is that, while the University has made enough money from the total athletic program to provide academic endowments and scholarships, the students must now dish out more money to subsidize the athletic program. 
In other words, if A equals the athletic budget, B equals the athletic ticket revenues, and C equals the academic budget, the University is asking for more B to support A while taking existing funds from A to support C. (Simple Enough?). 
This makes the increase in student 
The add to the confusion, Bouffard also explained why student ticket orders had not been taken in the spring, as was the traditional practice. According to Bouffard, ticket orders are usually taken in the spring to determine how many student tickets need be printed. Last spring, however, it was conlcuded tha this was unnecessary, because the maximum number of student tickets available would be sold easily. The printer was instructed to print up 5000 student tickets. "Why tie up the student's money over the summer," explained Bouffard. However, when asked whether he expected the 5000 student tickets to sell out, Bouffard replied negatively. 
Afher trying to make some sense oute 
. of tht.. University's rationale for the ticket increase, it becomes evident why the ticket manager waited until the second week in October to release the new ticket plan, although the price hike was decided last spring. There is simply no proper time to an­nounce or attempt to explain such a confusing change in policy. So now is a good a time as any. The combination of mid-terms, the approaching fall break, the excitement of football season, and other considerations which weigh much more heavily on students minds make this a perfect time to spring the good news on them. 
Therefore, after the initial shock and outrage of the students, they still have no logical explanation for the exorbitant ticket price increase. If the athletic program was running a deficit, the University wuld be reasonable in asking for some increased revenues to pay the bills. But in this case, the toal athletic revenues are not being consumed by the athletic expenditures. Money from athletics is being used for other University programs and this gives the students justification for their anger c.nd resentment. They have been give the runaround and are now confronted with 
'.an unreasonableincrease in ticket prices. The students are being asked to pay double what they have in the past to support their own basketball team. And this is the biggest outrage of all. The ball has now been passedto theAdministration. It is time for the Administration to decide how much money school spirit is worth. Will the real facts and ex­planation for the price increase be released to the students? Will the University reconsider the student price increase? If not, it is up to the students to demand a fair deal. It is surprising that the Administration has so under­estimated the spirit of the students. · They should know better. 
Marlene Zloza 

Inflation 
'UIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIWIIIIUHIIII••IIII!fl.-•z•RUIIII 
ray p amireZ 
Inflation h~s had its effect on prices and wages, but there is an 
~ven ~ore _w1d~spread form of inflation on the loose. This inflation 
IS an mflahon_m academic thought. For example, just a few short 
years a~o, a dispute as to the existence of God was easily settled in 
any philosophy class here at Noyre Dame. 
Q.: Does God exist'? 

A: Yes. The Bible says so. 
How coul«;J any good Catholic argue with this'? Now, the whole 
matter has _mflated to astounding proportions and perhaps half a 
~em ester will be consumed in seeking· sort of resolution .Where will 
It all end'? God only knows. 
. Th~ tea_ching o_f literature has experienced a similar influx of 
mflatwn m_ the mterpretation of various works. We can find 
courses which would have us subscribe to the belief that a.) All 
truth is to be found in books; or b.) No truth is to be found in 
books. . ~ow can one possibly hope to be faithful to 
both _schools of thoug~t WJ!hout denying both'? The simple matter of 
readmg a book, puttmg It down and saying: "That was pretty 
good,'.' is_ tu~ned into a. search for the true, the good and the 
beautiful m life. ~y placmg all our academic eggs into one literary 
basket we are takmg ~he easy way out. Your literary eggs would 
have to be rather mmute to place any significant amount into 
books. Therefore, if you have pretty good sized eggs you won't 
depend so much on books to explain life. 
~sa final illustration of this academic inflation, I would like to 
pomt to the controversy recently sprung up over the appointment of 
a certain professor d--as head of the department of S-­
and A--.. Now '!'e all know that decades ago when Fr. Sorin 
founded this great Island of introspection, nobody questioned him 
as to whether he founded it because he was a Catholic or because he 
was a great educator. The truth of the matter is that nobody 
cared ... until now. The appointment of Dr. d--got me to 
wondering as to why a_ Ca_tholic was our founder, so I went hunting 
through rare manuscnps m the basement of the library in search of 
an answer. <Most of these documents were in Hoose, the ancient 
language of the native Hoosiers, thus verifying that Sorin and his 
followers actually lived for awhile in peace with the indigents prior 
to the rise of the hostile Hoosier leader known only by the title of 
"Townie Father.") 
The documents showed that Fr. Sorin founded Notre Dame on a 
da~e from an Ohio spo~tswr~ter who claimed good football stopped 
on Jts way west at their occ!:lental border. Thus, it matters little 
whether Sorin was a Catholic or not.. .as a matter of fact the 
sportswriter thought he was Jewish. I shuddered as I read this' and 
refused to believe that Sorin could ever give in to selfish moti~es 
Bu~ it is of little consequence, for a lot of good has come from hi.s 
actions, no matter what the motive. 
So take care Dr. d--, and pay no heed to the inflation of academic reason and rhetoric ...inflation is inevitable in a case like 
yours. 
DOONESBURY 
~~~.)~ 

TH£ COI1Pi£T£ FACTS ON CHilE? WEU, MR.. PR.ESIOENT, 
THEY'RE PRETTY MUCH UJEU. KNOWN.. 
~;~~:AY8£,

SIR.. UNFORTUN­ATUY, IN CHit£ IT WAS R.EPt.ACEO UH. 
BY UNBEUEVA8l..Y FASCISM? 
REPR£55/VE FASCISM. I 
by Garry Trudeau 
~.A.J"~~ 

-'/"'"~ W&U, 
CHit£ HAO AN THAT's GOO!), 
#£CTE!) SOCIALIST ISN'T IT? 
GOVERNMENT; WHICH I M&AN, 
W£ CfJVER.TL.Y HUP&O SOC!ALJ5M 
TO Ova<THROW. \ IS 8AO, 
~6~~ <> 
YE~ 5/R.-YOU 

REM£M8CI< fA5{15M, OON'r OH, RIGHT, YOU? 11/0R!-0 RIGHT. WARfl? 



ticket prices absolutely absurd. 

~llllll_llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~IIIIIIIJI~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
the observer
N1ght Ed1tor: Mike Strlckroth Editorials: Fred Graver Asst. Night Editor: Teri Lane Features: J. R. Baker & Andy Peavler Layout: Martha Fanning, Terri Lane, Grizz Sports: Greg Corgan & Pete McHugh · Night Controller: Howard Halle 
Selle~berg, Karlos Weinfurtner, Joe who. Typists: D. Roos, H.V. Dyke, B. Norcross, Tom Late Typist: M. J. Foley Copy Editor: Tom Drape, Terry Keeney, Jeanne Modglin, J. Landis, Mary Tobin. Ad Display: Tom Whelan Mur~hy Compugraphi Operator: Morey Bunder Day Ed1tor: Greq Banqs. Picture Screener: AI D'Antonio 
----------~~~~~~~~~------~ 


the south dining hall--then and now 
by jill truitt 
The first South Dining Hall staff was under

When the South Dining Hall served its serving trays was saved. 
the management of Mr. Robert Borland. Today a committee decides on menues
first meal on September 13, 1927, two thousand students wearing coats and ties The 250 employees, half of which were proposed by a dietician. Students have a 
sat down eight-to-a-table for a family style students, prepared the meals. This stafff selection of main dishes, vegetables, salads, 
dinner. After grace was said, white coated ranged from bakers and butchers to waiters and desserts. If liver were the only entree at student waiters burst into the room bearing and bus boys. a meal today, a campus food strike might large silver trays filled with bowls of food. 
result. Only ten per cent of students care This family style meal took twenty-five Under the supervision of Mr. Robert about liver and so 3,000 entrees of liver minutes and at the end of it, all arose and Smith, 90 full time and 170 part time and would be wasted. A more favorable dish, said a prayer of thanksgiving and left. This student workers are employed. This staff is such as roast beef, might be served in add­
system was in effect until World War II aided by advanced technical equipment. tion to the liver. The desire of the minority when the navy took over the campus and With the use of the conveyor belt, bus boys as well as the majority can thus be met. installed a cafeteria in each wing. have become obsolete. Bakers and butchers 
are still employed by the University, but Change has brought a few economic 
Today students come to eat when they now work in the North Dining Hall. problems to the South Dining Hall. In 1927, a want, dress casually, and serve themselves IfF. A. Risser wished to prepare liver for three pound bag of sugar cost 20 cents; in less than ten minutes. The new dinner, the students had to accept it because today the same amount sells for $1.30. "scramble" system in the South Dining Hall this was the only choice. He was the head Bread now costs 47 cents a loaf, whereas handles three thousand students at each Chef in 1927 and arranged all menues. A before it was only a dime. You could buy a meal and replaced the cafeterias last year. typical dinner might be roast beef, tomato pound of sirloin for 45 cents in 1927; today it The North Dining Hall, which serves the soup, carrots and peas, lettuce and tomato costs $1.89 a pound. other half of the student body, remains salad, bread, pudding, and a beverage. This In 1927, the South Dining Hall never ex­under a cafeteria system. meal was personally served to each student perienced the problem of food shortages. 
There have been other changes since 1927. and, to avoid waste, any food remaining on Today one hundred cases of lettuce might be 

t:he year at innsbruck 


scaling untersberg 
ordered and only sixty arrive. Faced with these problems, the dining hall aims at "making the best use of the student dollar", according to Mr. Robert Smith, the director. 
He believes the Notre Dame student eats as well as any college student in the country. At theopening of the dining hall in 1927, Mr. Borland expressed a similar sentiment, "They have the very best food that is possible to procure, and it is prepared and served in an appetizing, wholesome man­ner". The dining hall has not changed in its wish to please the student. 
The South Dining Hall, experiencing change due to growth of the University and economic problems of the country, has taken a professional approach to meal service. The personal atmosphere of 1927 has almost disappeared. A bit of nostalgia, however, still remains: Sitting on the original oak furniture, viewing the Gothic architecture and high ceilings, the lingering spirit of the old dining hall can almost be felt. 
-

Whatever drives one to climb a mountain is as irresistable as it is inexplicable When the haze around Salzburg finally cleared, revealing the 5,700 ft. Untersberg for the first time, most of us felt ready to lace up the boots and head toward the peak. Many from the Midwest, who had never been so close to a rock this size, seemed particularly anxious to start climbing. 
None of us, however, perience or real idea  had of  any what  such we w ex­ere  
getting ourselves into.  

The first two groups to depart on climbing Sunday did things the right way. They rode the bus that runs directly to the foot of one trail. thus saving precious strength. Before catching the bus, they took time to purchase food and wine at a Lebensmittel, so necessary for such an exhausting hike. These people also left early enough to allow time for rest stops and a pace slow enough for survival. 
I returned to Kamp Klesheim from mass at about 11:00, too late to find any company for the trip. Not knowing about the bus service, I set out on foot with a map that led me only to the vicinity of the mountain, not to a definite trail. My nourishment con­sisted of five semmel rolls that I took from the breakfast tables. Being this late in the morning, I felt I could make it up and down Untersberg before dark if I walked virtually non-stop for the next seven hours. 

After walking though the villages west of Salzburg, then under the autobahn, I came to the end of the paved roads. I was on my own in the wooded knolls at the base of the mountain, traversing fields of eight-foot tall weeds, irrigated fields that were mostly mud, and baby pine forests, which com­bined the wees and mud with slashing grren needles. After that, I stayed in the mature forests, walking wherever the branches wl:'re above my head, but careful to keep the sun at my right. An earth-sliding descent brought me to the base of the hill. From a clearing there I could see, that after two hours of feeling forever lost, I stood one hundred yards from the start of the trail which would lead to the top. 
Stopping to eat and drink at the mountain 
stream, I then continued on to the trail, 
which looked like the easiest walk of the 
day. Unlike the path the others took, 
narrow, steeped, and winding through the 
forest, this way was more of a road. It was 
steep (up to a 40 percent grade), but entirely 
graveled and wide enough to handle a jeep. 
First aid stations stood along the path, but 
were all locked for some reason. Arrows 
were placed at irregular intervals, but 
pointing toward wach other, over the cliff, 
--------------------. 


gumms responds 

Kvakandabakki Field Camp 18 September, 1974 
My dear Miss von der Vogelwiede, 
As little accustomed as I am to put myself forward, and deprecating as deeply as I do the air of contentious brangling given to an erstwhikle scholarly debate by the most recent remarks of my esteemed colleague Professor Buhndoggel, nevertheless I feel morally obliged, in the interests of truth and intellectual endeavor, to protest the high­handed and irresponsible interpretation given by the learned Professor to the geological data collected over thirty years of devoted effort by the late Dr. Ernest Krumhorn and his able assistants in the field. Buhndoggel's citation of the stratification of the Late Oligocene bedrock into three distinct layers rather than four as proof that the geological conformation of the area which I have referred to in several papers as "Kvakandabakki"1 would not have allowed the foundation of a duck , since no lake would have been at the time, is sheer irresponsible Has Buhndoggel no access to the of comparative geology? Surely the recent studies of the geological tion of the Lake Rudolph Basin 
by c/ytemestro 
would have brought to Buhndoggel's at­tention the necessity of allowing for tem­poral displacement in stratification in op­posite hemispheres, due ultimately to the elfect of the fluctuation in the total annual rainfall in Ethopia on the North and South Polar ice caps. I regret the necessity of pointing out such an elementary adjustment in calculation to so eminent a scholar as Professor Buhndoggel, much of whoseworki admire wholeheartedly; I trust that, this one lapse corrected, he will continue to provide his readers with the kind of sound work we have come to expect of him. 
I remain 
Sincerely, 
Eusebia May Gumms B.A., M.A., Dip. Engl. Stud. 
(1) See "Kvakandabakki: An Investigation into the Evidence for Tenth~entury Viking Settlement in the Great Middle West," Journal for Arts, Sciences and Letters in the Old and New Worlds, XXIII(Spring, 1952), 82-85; and Freydis of Kvakandabakki, no. 18 in The Grace Fernslea Inspirational Series for Girls, 1958. 

or into rock walls, thus making them useless except for guessing at their purpose. Only on the trail does the size of a mounfam come into realistic proportions. Steps become increasingly difficult as the monotony of walking inflicts its toll on the spirit. At any stop, flies and the cool mountain breezes attack the sweat­drenched body, forcing rest periods to be very short. Three or four gravestones commemorated those who disappeared on Untersberg, providing almost emough impetus to start descending. Most frustrating, however, was seeing a tree­topped tock ledge that appeared to be the crest, only to round the next bend and see 
another ledge several hundred feet higher 
which was not the top either. 

Once at the top, all questions about the sanity of mountain~limbing dissapate. Hunger, exhaustion and shaking knees notwithstanding, the view from the peak creates an experience that can never be synthesized or made in Japan. Being the highest land in the area, the whole world, as far as the eye could see, lay below. The city of Salzburg lay off in the distance as one, compact clump of concrete. Surrounding it are fields and hills of green in more shade s than Crayolas: the dark green of the forsts, varying light shades in the pastures and their bushes, the mroe basic tints of vegetable fields, the mixture of green and yellow of the cornfields. To the west stand the Bertchesgaden Alps, with some peaks adorned with glaciers. 
Perhaps the most subtle, yet striking aspect of the peak is the silence, subtle, the continuity, broken by an occasional breeze or distant cowbell, makes the quiet un­notiC\"able. Striking in its totality; the sounds of civilization died many hundreds of feet below. Such sonic solitude frees the mind to absorb the scene below without any outside interference, something unique in today's world. 
This splendor is abbreviated by the sinking sun, warning all to move quickly or descend the treacherous trails in the dark. It is a hard enough feat in the light, because the legs have long since dissolved into jello and provide little resistance to gravity. Were it not for the steps that many cursed while climbing, the way down would be a long, helpless run stopped by trees or going over a cliff. After dark, patience and slowness become , since the next step can no longer be seen, just felt. 
Once back at Klessheim, only blisters, 
sore muscles, and a few stories remain as 
physical evidence of the day's recreation. 
But the spirit carries reminder& of the trek 
that will not disappear with time. Two legs, 
one human body took on the great mass of 
rock and vegetation, everging triumphant. 
That same flesh then stood in mastery over 
all that previously surrounded it, providing 
a 360 degree spectacle which cannot be 
excelled until man grows wings. Indeed, 
only those who have been to the moun­
taintop can ever fully appreciate the valley 
below. 



----~-----------­
------· 
8 the observer Thursday, October 10, 1974 
~----~~~~~~~~--------------­

Experience good times at Nazz coffeehouse 
by Mauri Miller Staff Reporter 
With the first four weeks of the coffee house described as "pretty much of a success with pretty good crowds" and incoming talent from the Chicago area promised, the Nazz coffee house experience is showing a surprising number of Notre Dame students a good time on weekend nights. 
"The crowds were really good for the first two weekends, especially during the hours around 
10:30 till midnight," said student government spokesman Ralph Pennino, "but the last two weeks the crowds have slackened off considerably." 
Pennino attributes the smaller audiences to the football weekend parties and families and friends coming in for the game. "Students should know the Nazz is a good place to bring your girl when she is in for the weekend and have a good time," he said. 
And having a good time is possible at the coffee house, with local talent playing sets until well past the closing hour of 1 : 30 a.m. on Friday and Saturday mornings in an atmosphere which even the musicians appreciate. 
"Both times that I've played there it has been very pleasurable," said George Adello of "Pete Snake'. "The sound system is very good and the audiences have been really ap­preciative and responsive. You can't ask for anything any better than that." 
Murderer at large 



L d T 


Five b utC.cJere in exass aying~~~~:~:·~·~~;~7~~~~~c;~6~~~~~"0~~~:~~~:~~:,~:~'~~~ 
FORT WORTH, Tex. <UPil 
lnVE..>tigators theorized Wednesday one man killed three young women and two children, hacking the women to death one by one with a butcher knife as they returned from a party in a nearby apartment. 
No one has been held so far in the killings of Laure McLendon, 22; her sister Martha, 24; their cousin Linda McLendon, 19; Stephen McLen­don, 2, Laura's son, and Martha's daughter Natasha, also 2. 
Police apparently had no suspects. A woman had been raped in July across the hall from the McLendon apartment, but it turned out the suspect in that case is in iail, eliminating him as a possible suspect in the 
five killings. "All suffered multiple stab wounds, too many to tell about 
until we get a complete autopsy report," Robert Parkey, an investigator for the Tarrant County medical examiner, said. 
"There is just no way to tell how long they had been dead or 
fix the time of death. We found positive evidence of rape in one 
of the women but that doesn't
h 
mean t e others weren't raped too. "We found nothing in the way of being able to identify the assailant." 
Medical Examiner Feliks Gwozdz said Tuesday "It looks like a typical sexually oriented 
situation." 
Panel discusses starvation 
by Mary Reher Starr Reporter 
A panel discussion on "Epidemic Starvation," will be held by the Program in Non-Violence Thur­sday, 8:00 p.m., at the Library Lounge. The three panelists will be university professors Dr. Robert Mcintosh, Ecology, Dr. Julian Pleasants, Microbiology, and Dr. Erhard Winkler, Earth Sciences. 
The panel, one of a series of three to be presented this semester on the theme of starvation, will be an overview of the extent of starvation in the world. The second will focus on starvation in Africa and the third panel has not yet been decided, according to Mike Apfeld, organizer of campus student PNV activities. 
It is the exploitation of human beings by present economic and political systems of human beings by present economics and politcal systems which the PNV seeks to illuminate," Apfeld said. 
Tim Skully, PNV coordinator, said that last Friday PNV met with Judge Beamer of South Bend to discuss the feasibility of starting a bail-bond program. In the present system judges set bail without any knowledge of the person's financial situation. The bail-bond system would give the judge financial background information of the individual so that he could set bail at a fair price. 
PNV is also planning a lay group counseling program in which three Notre Dame students would discuss minor crimes with juvenile 
But music isn't the only pleasure available at the Nazz. Foods served include cheese and cracker plates and donuts, and cider, fruit punch and coffee are the drinks, with some local favorites finding their way to the tables, also <BYOB ) . The prices have been described as "very reasonable to cheap" and the atmosphere is sweetened by the aroma. 
Due to Homecoming weekend, the schedule for the Nazz will be changed for Friday and Saturday nights, with Friday's opening at 
11:30 p.m. after the Gordon Lightfoot concert. Saturday will feature three musicians with the experience lasting from 10:30 until past 1:30. 
Reportedly John Begert will put down the belief of at least one ND 
1 
The women were tied, gagged
and stripped. The children were fully clothed and gagged but not bound. Parkey said the 
children were stabbed as savagely and as frequently as the women, who also were mutilated. 
A bloody butcher knife was 
left in a room where three victims died.
Police at first believed more 
than one person was involved because the women were young
and strong and it would have 
been difficult for one man to 
overcome and kill all three at 
once. 
But they now said it was 

possible for one man to have~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
killed all the women if they returned separately to the apartment. 
shoplifters and other young of­fenders of South Bend. 
Also in the planning stage is letting college students act as probation officers for South Bend petty criminals on a part time basis. 
"PNV welcomes the cooperation and assistance of other concerned groups and individuals," Apfeld said. 

student that the coffee house is frequented by "long-haired freaks that smoke dope and listen to crazy music" when he opens the coffee house show Friday night, followed by Triad, with D. Shaheen, G. Mandolini and J. Schneider. 
Saturday's 10:30 show is not yet confirmed, but Mike Armstrong will play at 11:30 and the 12:30 set will be by 'Pete Snake', with George Adello and Tony Herenda. 
"The turnout has been pretty good so far," said Pennino, "but we want to get more people to come to the coffee house. There is no admission to the place and the prices on food is pretty reasonable, so its a good service by the student government to the Notre Dame students." 
In the future, the Nazz hopes to offer outside coffee house talent one night of the weekend in the form of Chicago or Chicago area musicians, and save the other night of the weekend for local campus talent. 
"The music has been good so far and the audiences have been pleased with the shows," said Pennino. "We'd like to encourage anyone who could or would like to come to drop in and see what the Nazz has to offer." 
THEATREIU

2:15 IllI Indiana University -South Bend 
tickets


OltJ
8:15 PRESENTS pm $1.50
ATHURBER CARNIVAL 
Tickets at October 10, 11, '12, 18, 19, 20 


TORONTo DANCE COMPANY 
· 
presents 



MODERN DANCE 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 17 
8:00P.M. 
TO ALL CAMPUS VIEW RESIDENTS NOW LIVING AT STONERIDGE Everyone is guaranteed a place to stay at Stoneridge until there is available space at Campus View. 
If you have any worries or questions feel free to call: 
Hobert E. Stareo (317) 632-2361 
or Write 
PNTI Co. 155 E. Market St. Indianapolis, Ind. 46206 



9 

Off-campusburglaries continue••• 
by Gregg Bangs, John Hennessy and Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporters 

Burglaries continued to plague off-campus Notre Dame students, with two more break-ins this week bringing the total of reported thefts this year to 20. 
South Bend police have noticed a recurring pattern of burglaries that have occurred at houses east and west of Eddy St. with stereo equipment being a prime target. Detectives assigned to these cases feel that the stolen items are quickly being disposed of through "fences" 
Over $1400 worth of stereo equipment was taken early Tuesday evening from a house at 1901 N. Lawrence St., co-rented by seniors Jim Kane, Steve Weber, Tom Luetkemeyer and Dan Ryan. The items stolen included an $800 stereo system, and a record cabinet with $300 worth of records, belonging to Kane, and a $125 reel­to-reel tape deck, a $125 televsion set and $50 radio belonging to Weber. Other merchandise such as 10-speed bikes were not touched. 
Entry was gained to the seniors' house by smashing through a rear door window and opening the latch. 
The break-in was first noticed when Luetkemeyer returned home at 9:20p.m. The police, who were immediately called, could offer no suggestions as to how to protect homes from further theft. 
orr-campus students hit again 
' Approximately $1500 worth of goods were also taken in a Tuesday evening break-in at the home of senior Denny Hatch and junior Sam Costello, at 1625 South St. Joe. The burglars took electric guitars, amplifiers, a stereo, three speakers, a television set, a coat and art materials. 
"I didn't get back to the house until 10:00 p.m., but I knew they <burglars) were in here at exactly 
7:41 p.m.," Hatch observed. "I saw that the door had been kicked in and the stereo gone. An electric clock we attached to the same line as the stereo had stopped at 7:41 p.m.," the senior pointed out. 
Hatch then notified South Bend police, who took over 30 minutes to respond. The senior from Belleville, Illinios expressed some surprise that their house was victimized by burglars. 
"We live in an area where there are barely any students. Nobody else in our area has been ripped that I know of. I was quite sur­prised when we were ripped off," Hatch added 
Insurance recommended 
Unlike many other off-campus students who have been burglarized, Hatch and Costello were covered by insurance. 

De. Thomas Tallarida, director of Off-Campus Housing, agreed about the importance of insurance coverage for belongings of off­campus residents. Most parents' home-owners insurance covers their children living away at 
school, but some policies have clauses exempting the insurance company from this responsibility, Tallarida pointed out. "I urge all off campus students to check their parents' policy and 
as::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:!:~=~=~=~=~=~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
•••Possible solutions discussed 
by Ken Lamb 
Staff Reporter 
A series of recent burglaries which have victimized off-campus students has, indeed, arounsed concern on the part of both the administration and student body of Notre Dame. As part of the effort to solve the problem a meeting was held Friday between the South Bend police and representatives of Notre Dame. Present at this meeting to discuss the situation were the chief of Police in South Bend Robert Urban, the assistant chief, SBP Pat McLaughlin, Dean of Students John Macheca and Stans Cardenas and Tom Wilson. 
The group discussed how the criminals seem to concentrate on ND students as victims. According to Macheca, Urban pointed out that the students tend to be easy marks for t'hieves because of their fixed schedules. While in a family home a parent or child is usually present, there are certain times student's houses are left alone. 
Because of the students' predictable routine, the police said, it is easy for the thieves to find a time when they can depend on no one at home. This is usually when they will strike. 
These students are therefore in an especially vulnerable position, Macheca said. The police are, however, willing to act to protect the,. According to McLaughlin, 
"Two weeks ago the police in­
stituted five additional two-man 
foot patrols and three squad car patrols "in the troubled areas. Even though this has probably helped greatly, more recent robberies point out that it is not enough. What then is the solution? 
More police patrols certainly wouldn't hurt. But, according to Dean Macheca, the police are limited in this in two ways. First, he said, the police do have "limited manpower" to deal with the entire area. And second, "They are faced with many demands from citizen groups concerned with their problems" and to concentrate on one would leave the others open. It would a also obviously be bad politically to favor one group. 
Macheca said the students 
themselves can do much toward 
solving the problem. In regard to 
the security of the houses them­
selves, a service called the Crime 
Prevention Unit <CPU) will 
examine any home and inform the 
occupants of its weaknesses. The 
unit plays the role of the burglar 
and will find the obvious flaws in a 
house's security. 
CPU will also speak to groups and the possibility of their lec­turing the off-campus students as a group is being explored. Possible sites for such a lecture are on campus or in the center for Con­tinuing Education, according to Macheca. 

The police officials listed other 
things students can do to deter 
criminals. A light or a radio left on 
when one leaves the house is an old 
but still effective deterrent. A thief 
would rather strike a dark house 
than take a risk with one that could 
be occupied. 

Also, when students leave South Bend for semester break, the police recommend several deterrents. A key should be left with a neighbor who can enter the house from time to time and keep mail and newspapers from ac­cumulating. Even this small bit of activity will tend to deter a thief, Urban said. Also, police everywhere agree that a timer to turn on and off lights is well worth the cost, Macheca stated. 
McLaughlin said, one of the best things the off-campus students could do would be to watch out for each other. As Macheca stated, "The students must begin to be sensitive to their neighborhoods." The police now seem to be doing all they can do on their own, ac­·cording to the Dean. The con­sensus of the meeting seemed to be 'that the rest of the solution must come from active participation by the studdents. Perhaps, as Macheca seemed. to say, if we all 
get together we can beat it. 
Football ticket exchange sets goal 
by Catherine Brown Starr Reporter 

The football ticket exchange has set a goal of 800 tickets for this year's Dame-Army game on Oc­19, according to Dan Novak, of the program. 
As in past years, the tickets are to admit underprivileged from South Bend to the 
W~ND Fl\1 88.9 
11:00 l'hurs. 
have not," said Novak. "It is a sday, October 15-17 from 9a.m. to 4 
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for them, and it really means a lot to them .. 
Last year, over 700 students turned their tickets in through the ticket exchange for the Navy game. This year the goal is 800 tickets, Novak said. "We hope people will really come through for us." 
Students who wish to turn in their football tickets may do so on 
_Wednesday and Thur-

V\'SND -AM 
640 
p.m. at the second-floor A.C.C. ticket window. Tickets will be returned on Tuesday through Thursday, October 22-24 at the same time and place. ' 
Campus organizatons that are involved in the program are the Neighborhood Study Help Program, the Big Brothers and Logan Center. Any other organization interested in getting tickets through the program 
should contact Dan Novak at 282­

Everything for the guitaris
1784 

.-~~~~~--MH---·--------~,--­
• 


241 Dixieway North 
1 mi. no_rth of ND 
guitar repair and
I 

headquarters~ ' ·instruction 


~ ~ ~t 

RESERVA 1'10:'\,S 
284-4176 
Student· Faculty 
ND-8MC Staff 
SMC 

$1.50
THEATRE 
1974-75 Our Ninth Season 

LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGEL 
Ketti Frings' Pulitzer Prize play based on the novel byThomas Wolfe. 
Oct. 4, 5, 10, 11,12 at 8:00P.M. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
--------------------------· 
find out the extent of ·the coverage," the Off-Campus Director advised. "If a student finds that he is not covered, he should apply for a separate school policy for better protection," Tallarida added. 
Commenting on what could be done to better protect off-campus students from this rash of . burglaries, Tallarida said, "All we can do is put pressure on the police." 

You'll sail in February, with the ship your class­room and the world your campus ... combining ac­credited studies with fasci­nating visits to the fabled ports of the Orient, Africa, and the Americas. Over 10,000 students from 450 colleges have already sailed with WCA -join them! Fi­nancial aid available. Write today for free catalog. 
WCA, Chapman College Box F, Orange, CA 92666 

~~~ 
1723 SOUTH BEND AVE.~ 
·-----­J 1M-CLASS OF '63 CHUCK-CLASS OF '65 PROPRIETORS ------·-----­SUGAR BOWL 
BE~R MUGS STILL A V AILABLEj 
N. D. :acii. RICE \ 

FOR 60 ~ MNUTES! ~ 
E------• \. 
·~~: 







lEAH 0: EOOS~NC:~~;~~ '~~~~~.
1
• LINEBACKER-200YDS. ON LEFT.
i! •-----­'i DiscouNT AVAiLABLE 
•: CALL AHEAD FOR KEGS 
1...·---··-· ..,....--.................... 
~ 
.! 272-9800 £ 
-. 
l J 
II 10 the observer Thursday, October 10, 1974 

r········~· 1 [Greetmg Cards 5 
:· 20 Percent Off I

0-C suggestions criticized] 
:.........·-··-····-·--= 
Paperback books 

"As a result of this meeting, Tallarida noted that his office is 
Magazines 


steps will be taken to proivde "self investigating an insurance plan for 
Novelty items

§~~c~ 
Paraphernalia
help" measures for the students, syudents. 

Town & • ~
Coun~ry~.>} 
Original paintings
along with integration of the effort "The implementation of an in­In response to Tuesday's Ob­
Shopping Center ·. _ . 7 -·.~ Art supplies
of the Unversity with those of the surance plan has been . a majorserver editorial which criticized 
Mini-mall

pulbic," said Tallarida. concern of both this office and theUniversity handling of off-campus 
219-256-0111
Mishawaka.

The Observer's suggestion of an student government since laststudents Director of off-campus off-campus "Hall-Mark" system is May. Several plans are nowHousing, Fr. Thomas Tallarida, already under the consideration by 


1----------------­
said that a number of the remarks availableandinformation'On them 
the off-campus office, Tallarida pRESENTING 1
were unfounded and unresearched. can be· obtained from the student 
Tallarida, the off-campus housing reported. government," Tallarida noted. f • The controversial food co-op is Tallarida said that further land · • f
director, said that the editorial was 
delayeed by procedualr, not 

f th Th d •ghf • I
"not good journalism" and that it development for housing is un­
substantive reasons, according to necessary because, "There is not, ' e urs ftV n1 spec1a tappeared the writer was "only 
Fr. Tallarida, who praised the nor will there be in the foreseeable -7
looking for reaction." The statement noted that the 

extensive treatment of the future any shortage of equitably f f increase in off-campus students problem by student government. priced, privately owned, quality 1']' • $ f this year amounted to only 15, not "The dominant impediment is off-campus housing in the t PIZZO --1.~5() any sudden or significant addition purely legal, and the her f
concerns University area." t to last year's total of ap­statutory responsibilities imposed In discussing the problems f Pitc Beer Nite f proximately 1,300, as was implied by the State of Indiana," he said. facing their department and the t in the editorial Noticeable injustice in the off-campus student, Fr. Tallarida f Eat, drink, and be entertained by live ' The editorial also observed that 
editorail dealt with the "sub­the off-campus office is "un­standard" condition of off-campus 

r£t~i~~::1Et:~~~f~=~~~g:~~: ,' ~i~~ ;t<;uTues,.EI IANTN ,'
derstaffed" and that "an ex­housing and the failure of lan­pansion of facilities is sadly dlords to make repairs. of insurance, crime prevention and needed." Tallarida pointed out In response to these allegations housing inspection. f that as of this year the office has a the off campus statement said, Tallarida noted that getting f Now Playing f

' full-time director, two part-time "Since the middle of July, this students to back up reports of • • • • • • • • • • n(J t assistants and a full-time office has inspected every new problems on paper is difficult. . t :DESIRE: cover secretary. This is an important listing as to condition, price and Echoing this feeling, Wilson said, C00rge t We now the "Definite complaints be
fact, said Tallarida, because the provisions. are in must •••••••••• 
staff is that the on­process of inspecting all of the old t f
c'ouble of listed." 

campus staff. listings according to the same A comprehensive legal handbook ' 2 8 3 9 N 5 f h Besides the increase in staff, 
criteria, and by next spring every for the off-campus students which 683 9 0 A2' f 
listing provide by this office will be will inform them of their rights and t Just 8 mi. north of the state line. -0'+.
additional assistance has also been 

given by Legal Aid and student inspected, certified and approved. responsibilities has been sent to t Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 5 3 miles. f government. In particular the be ready f
The housing, for the most part, is the publisher and will services of Legal Aid were not substandard, nor has it been. 

soon, according to the statement. ----------------­stressed as an important feature Problems have arisen with Lan­available to off-campus students. dlords who refuse to make 
necessary repairs. These houses crime is an important aspect of are not listed when inspected, and Tallarida's work. Last Friday in cases where students are Dean of Students John Macheca, already occupying the property, 
Wilson, Pat McLaughlin and Stan the office has implemented all Cardians of ND student govern­measures within its power to help ment, and legal counsel met with the students after the situation was 
the South Bend Chief of Police. brought to our attention." 
SMC Student Assembly 
nominations due Friday 
open for two representatives from 
Students may now submit their McCandless, one from Regina, nominations for St. Mary's Student three from Holy Cross and one Assembly representatives. The from off campus. deadline for nominations is mid-Kearney said that voting stations night on October 11. Platforms are will open at 10 a.m. on October 17 due Saturday, October 12, in room and close at 6 p.m. Stations will be 227 of Holy Cross by 8:00a.m. set up in each hall for the election. 
All classes are eligible to run, Students wishing to apply for according to Katie Kearney, candidacy should contact Kearney Student Assembly chairman of at 227 Holy Cross or call 4992. 
************************************ 
~ N 0 T R E DAM E & ST. MARY'S :
i S 0 C I A L C 0 M M IS S I 0 N S ·~ 
: PRESENT OCTOBERFEST '74 : 
* * 



~JOHN SEBASTIAN! 
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *

* * fRIDAY OCTOBER II S-I1Jtn
* *
* *

* * SIITIJ!iDAY OCTOIIK ll llflll-mitllllfAt
* *
* *
* *

* * PCLI!:tt !:"•VSAGE
* * 

IRiSH FOLK DAMCi...
~ THURSDAY OCTOBER 17 ~ 

OfLLY OA~CiNG 
flLACK ARTS D:SPLAV
$ 8:00 p.m. IN CONCERT ~ 

(..RfEK, VI<OANIAH ~uLJ( DAMC*tG KARA1E V[l'luN&Tr?.TtC..
$ STEPAN CENTER ~ CERMAH 

l faR GA~D£M& 
: TICKETS: $3.00. ON SALE MONDAY OCT. : P JI..ISH, HUNCARiAH S:OUC 0AMC::d4C: 
DAto~ CiHC UNDI.R t K£. STAA$ H~CHTLV rA01'1 J•U P;.t
Jt* 7 AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET *Jf­!* OFFICE & THE DINING HALLS !* The Civic Minded ,Shopping Center 
I 
*··*********************************** 
-----------------------~---------------~-~--~--~-------­




Netters secondinIrish Invitational 
forward to a possible spring trip to Galveston, Texas as well as a rematch with Indiana on the Courtney Tennis Courts. 

Fall competition is a new in­novation in collegiate tennis and 
ND Coach Tom Fallon feels ihat the Notre Dame squad should be a strong one this spring based on its 
performance over the weekend. 
Team members are looking 
The University of Indiana took first place honors at the second annual Irish Invitational Fall Tennis Tournament held this past week-end. The Hoosiers went through the round robin tourney undefeated. Southern Illinois, Iowa and Notre Dame tied for second place with 5-2 records. 
The key match in the tour­nament came Sunday morning between Indiana and Notre Dame. The Irish had one loss (to Iowa) at this point and a win over Indiana would have put Notre Dame in the 
Stickmen slip by Purdue 
by George Eckes 

The Irish lacrosse club traveled 
to Purdue over the weekend to 
battle a team they thoroughly 
trounced seven days before and 
escaped with a 13-12 overtime 
victory. 
Fedele Volpe led all scorers with 
four goals and one assist on eleven 
shots for a sizzling 36 per cent, but 
it was overall team effort that 
came up with nine other scores. 
Besides Kevin Fogerty's three 
goals, Bob Thibodeav, Rick Caron, 
Mark Connelly, Rich Trabert, 
Steve Tarnon and John Corconan 
each tallied one apiece. 
The entire contest was a see-saw 
affair with the halftime score tied 
6-6. The game ended after 
regulation time knotted at 11. The 
Irish came on strong in the sudden 
death period after a scoreless fifth 
quarter when Fogerty took a pass 
from Volpe and scored to end the 
overtime excitement. 
Phelps slates BB 
tryouts for Tuesday 
Tryouts for the 1974-75 varsity basketball team will be held Tuesday October 15. 
All interested persons should report to the ACC basketball arena before 4:00. Players should bring th~ir own equipment. 
driver's seat. 
The doubles were played first and all threee Irish combinations came up short. Chris Kane and Brian Hainline fell behind early at No.3 and lost 10-5. Mike O'Donnell and Tony Bruno took the Hoosier's No. 2 team to nine games apiece but lost the tie-breaker. Randy Stehlik and John Carrico played well but came out on thz short end of a 10-8 margin in the No. 1 spot. 
The Irish played some of their 
best tennis of the tourney in the 
The stickmen celebrate their tenth anniversary this weekend with a clash with the Lacrosse Club Alumni. The match will follow the ND-Rice football game and be played on Cartier Field's Astro­turf field. 
FCA to .meet Thursday evening 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes <FCA) will meet Thursday evening in the St. Edward's chapel at 7:00 PM. Officers for the school year were recently elected. Jim Earley will serve as captain, Steve Lopardo as so-captain, Mark Wurfel and Dave Kiel as co­.administrators , and Jim Rinehart as club treasurer. 
HARQ.D MEDOW 
USED CARS AND TRUCKS 
~ 
LaFayette 
at LaSalle 



Phone 233-2139 
singles, but only Chris Kane and Brian Hainline could come up with wins. 
The Irish did however post impressive wins over Illinois State (8-ll, Southern Illinois (5-4), In­diana State (6-3) and Purdue (9-()). 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost in S. Dining Hall basement. Silver class ring. E.J.M. '76. Reward, 1770. 
Lost: Whittenauer gold ladies• wristwatch. Lost between Morris Inn & Dillon. Call 7181. 
Lost: gold ring. Initials J.M.A. Call 3336. Big reward. 
Found: one male dashchund Thurs. nile. Owner please claim. Call Observer, 8661 or Mary, 4167. 
Found: car keys at O'Shag Tues. afternoon. Call 6917. 
Found: one electric Timex watch and one gold bracelet. Can be picked up at the Lost & Found counter, Memorial Lib. 
WANTED 
2 GA tickets for Army. Call Mike, 232-2773. 
Need 5 or 6 Rice tix. Please call 1254. 
Need 2 GA tickets to Pittsburgh game, ll-16. Greg Siedor, 288-4751 (office) or 277-0091 (home). 
Need GA Rice tix. Call 288-7946. 
Need 4 tix USC game. Call 1132. 
Need 2 GA tix to Miami game. Call 683.5362 after 6:00 p.m. 
Needed desperately, 2 GA tickets to Miami. Call Tom, 8398. 
Wanted: 4 Army GA tix. Call John or Kathy, 282-1568. 
Help! The clan is making its first­trip-ever to NO! Desperately need GA Pitt tickets. Call 3665. 
Wanted: May Fair Rest waiters, 5­10-ll p.m. Part time or full time. Must be 2l. $1.25 plus tips. Call 255­5517. 
Need 4 GA tix for Pitt game. Call Mary Beth, 4704. 
Desperately need ride to Boston area for Oct. break. Call Jim, 8439. 
Need ride to Boston for Oct. break. Call Tim, 8591. 
Need ride to NY City weekend of Oct ll, 12, 13. Will share expenses. Call Dave, 1197. 
Desperately need two GA tix for Army. Call Rahj. 1612. 
Wanted: veteran-student for work­study position under V.A. program. $250.00 for 100 hours. Apply through NO Personnel Office or call 237-4415. 
Wanted: 1 Rice ticket or else. Call me now, 284-4371. 
Need ride to Minneapolis-St. Paul or Madison for Oct 25 break. Call John, 1184. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Pitt. Tom, 288-2613. 
Need 4-6 tix for any home game except Army. Will trade 4 Army tix. Call Becky, 8154. 
Ride wanted to California during Oct. break. Call Tom, 3191. 
Earn up to $1200 a school year hanging posters on campus in spare time. Send name, address, phone, & school to: Coordinator of Campus Representatives, P.O. Box 1384, Ann Arbor, Mich. 48106. 

Need ride to N.J. for Oct. break ­badly. Will share expenses. Call Kit, 6972. 
NOTICES 

Take the Greyhound non-stop from N D Circle to Chicago every Friday at4:40. Call Tom Boyer at 272-1807. 
STUDENT ALUMNI RELATIONS GROUP presents: Sugar Bowl '73. Thursday, Oct 10, 7:00 p.m. Washington Hall. FREE. 
Pittsburgh Mid-semester Buses: those who missed the sign-up on Sunday can still sign up this week by coming to 1118 Grace Hall or calling John, 8251. 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND . NOW AVAILABLE FOR DAN­CES, PARTIES, AND PRE-GAME PERFORMANCES. CALL 272-9895 AFTER 7:00 FOR IN­FORMATION. 
$ Irish Lampoon is now accepting articles, stories, cartoons. For info, call 272-8724 between 9 and 
11:30 p.m.$ 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFOR­TUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER ARE 12:15-5:00 MWF and 11:00­
1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TT. 
Legal problem, but no money? NO Legal Aid can help. Call 283-7795, M-F, 1·4 p.m. 
TICKETS FOR THE OCTOBER 20 AEROSMITH & MAHOGANY RUSH CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
Last day for Poli. Sci. & Gov't '12­price used book sale at Pandora's Books. Sale ends tonight at 7 p.m. 
Juniors: start your weekend off right. The Junior Class officers at Notre Dame and St. Mary's are sponsoring a happy hour at Kubiaks Friday afternoon bet­ween 3:30-6:30. Pitchers will be $1.50. 
Wanted: 2 tickets to Miami game. Call or. Maison, at 272-9895 bet­ween 7:00 and 9:00p.m. 
Will do typing term papers, etc. Ca II 233-4484. 
Mistah Kurtz he's dead! For further info, contact Joseph Conrad. 
Need a ride for semester break? Wilson driveaway has cars going to many spots in the U.S. and your only expense is gas. For info call Jim scott, 1694. Due to an abundance of cars going to Miami, special offers including partial or complete gas allowances are being made. Check it out. 
FOR SALE 

4 GA tix each for Rice & Army. CaII Bob, 8388. 
4 Lightfoot tix for sale. Floor. 272­1031. 
6-string acoustic guitar with case. Excellent cond. $75. Call Tom, 1409. 
Two tix to Gordon Lightfoot . best offer -originally $5.50 per ticket. Ca II 684-r574. 
T.l. 2550 calculator. Call Fred, 288­5646. Keep calling. 
F·OR RENT 
Rooms for Rent: 1 or 2 singles, 
O.C. · 1021 DeMaude. Convenient locatidh, good neighborhood. $55 mo.. incl. utilities. Call 232-2773. 
Modern executive 2-bedroom cottage located on 30 wooded acres of St. Joseph River frontage and Orchard Hills Golf Course. Win­terized cottage also features large fireplace, wall-to-wall carpeting, fully equipped kitchen, and riding horses. Perfect for out-of-towners on Notre Dame football weekends with only a 20-minute ride to the stadium. $150 per week. Call 616­695·6043. 
For Rent: 1 single, $55 mo. In­cludes rent, utilities. One block from grocery, laundry, bakery. Call 232-2773. 
PERSONALS 
To Ray, Bill, & Hugh E. BOLT! Kev-Tock 
Mom and Dad, 
Happy Irish Anniversary. Love, Your Wildwood Child 
To Wolf: Happy Birthday. Now you're older than legal. Maybe Neand-man will buy you a cup of milk? 
Carefree Highway 
FLOPSY: How did it feel to have your newly­driven snow melted? 
Kathy of W.I.U. 
To my moonlight crooners: You are loved. 
To the Sensuous Ping Pong Player: Happy Birthday! 
Pradler Saggen 9 
Tom Wittenberg dates pregnant ladies. Happy Birthday! Therese, Kate, Patty, and Katie. 
Marcie, I'm glad I don't have your job! Welcome back. 
Pattie (same for Howard & Tom & Bob & Bob & Whalebone) 
Dear Blake: I thought the Irish were quick in comebacks. Just another idle threat from Waterbury. Conn. However, thanx for the continuing supply of tea. 
Daniel Morgan. 
Spock: Help us! Kirk & the crew 
---~ -~--­
Dear Tom, Legally you're a man. Prove it. Happy Birthday. 
D.B. 
MEN-WOMEN: Jobs on ships! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. SEAFAX Dept. G-13 P.0. Box 2049 Port Angeles, Wash. 98362. 
Peg or Sue going south as tar as Daytona Beach. If you have room left please call Rex at 3510. 
Call Jeff at 1655 for tickets to the Harry Nilsson concert weeknights at 8:30, 504 Grace. 
Robin, Joan, Sue-Ann: "The three best!" "Oh yeah!!!" 
Love, Dick 

... 
~-­

--~--------------------.....------------------------, 
12 the observer Thursday, October 10, 1974 

Kicking game vital to ND attack 
by Pete McHugh All-American team. 
What do you think about as you Over the summer he kicked try to kick a football in front of every day in preparation for fall liO,OOO screaming people, while practice. He was apprehensive eleven angry players bear down on about the starting competition you? however, "I hoped to be starting 
but I knew they had a lot of walk­For Dave Reeve and Tony ons and that Pat McLaughlin hadBrantley, you think about nothing done well in spring practice. Ibut kicking. 
didn't want to have my hopes too Reeve, Notre Dame's freshman high." place kicker, described his attitude 
Reeve (6-3, 195) feels his kicking to the game situation, "The kicker game has improved this season, "Ican't be concerned with what's in was nervous at first but thefront of him. I know I can do it in starting nod for Georgia Techpractice so I just put myself in really built up my confidence. Ipractice, and do it. I can't ever seem to get more accurate and
remember hearing the crowd." a 43
distance every week." With Irish punter Tony Brantley also yard field goal as his high school 
emphasized concentration, best, he estimated his range from "Mentally I go through the fun­45-50 yards with no wind. damentals, holding the ball, 
Brantley steps into a startingkicking, following through. You · role avter averaging 42.6 yards ajust have to picture yourself." 
punt last year with the JV's. A 

... For both Reeve and Brantley, quarterback at Putnam City High kicking a football for the Notre. School, he was named Oklahoma Dame varsity, however oblivious, all-metro player of the year along is a new experience. Last year with all-state and All-America Reeve was playing downstate for honors. He also graduated first in Bloomingt.~n South High School. his class of 868. Brantley, a junior from Oklahoma 
With a long effort of 61 yards aCity, spent last season as Brian . 
year ago, he is not particularlyDoherty's understudy primarily impressed with his performancewith the Irish junior varsity. 
this season, "I'm starting to im­
Reeve holds the distinction of prove as far as my consistency being the first kicking specialist goes, especially against Michigan given a scholarship by coach Ara State. I started out pretty good Parseighan. While in high school, against Georgia Tech, but agaist he set season and career records Northwestern I didn't show anyfor field goals (10-16) and 16-24) consistency in hitting the ball. and PAT's (59-64 and 104-114). He Each single week will be a test." was named to all-conference, all­He stressed that in the Notre state and Lettermans Magazine's Dame system it is not as important 


The Irish Eye 
::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=============::::::::=======:=:=:====: .Al 'Charisma' Conover 
The Rice University press release calls Head Coach AI Conover "a dynamic young man with lots of 'charisma."' 
Ara Parseghian has charisma and class, USC's John McKay has charisma and class, Alabama's Bear Bryant has charisma and class. AI Conover has neither. 
For Conover, "charisma" is a kind euphemism for some more un­complimentary adjective , say sick or perverse. 
College football has its share of clowns like Duffy Daugherty or Pepper Rodgers, but these men are also engaging personalities as well as good football coaches. 
Conover tries his hardest to fit into this category, but he comes dreadfully short. "Sometimes you need to do something to get their attention," explains Conover. 
Perhpas that's how he rationalizes the famous chair throwing incident of 1972. Rice was playing Arkansas in Fayetteville and theRazorbacks were favored by a multitude of touchdowns. Enter Conover who promp­tly leaned against a folding chair in front of the blackboard. He began a long oratory on the merits of the Arkansas football team and with his voice rising to a fev~r pitch picked up the chair and threw it through the lockerroom window. Strangely enough, or maybe out of fear that they would be the next ones through, the Owls went onto the field and upset the H.azorbacks 23-20. 
Then there was the time he went out on the field after Rice had upset Texas A&M and led the Aggie band in the playing of their alma mater. Conover needs a gimmick to inspire his players, apparently in lieu of any coaching abilities. 
Of course last year when the Irish went to Houston Conover had fifty priests sitting on the Rice sideline to "inspire" his Owls. Unfortunately Al's Owls were inspired to a 28-0 loss. 
So far this season Conover has two more classic moves to his credit along with two losses and a tie. During one closed practice session the Rice coach chased a writer with a starter's pistol, stopped and fired a blank at him. According to Bill Whitmore, Rice's SID, "the guy almost had a heart attack." 
Prior to this year's LSU game, Conover, in an attempt to work his team into a frenzy ripped a leg off a lockerroom table and smashed it through a blackboard on which were written the words "Throw a Fit." His actions were a team manager's signal to set off a string of firecrackers in the shower.

... 
With that the Owls went out and tied LSU 10-10. AJ must have been a bit more passive earlier in the season when the Owls lost to Houston 21-0 and that perennial Midwest powerhouse Cincinnati 28-21. What he has in store for the Notre Dame game this weekend may be worth watching. 
l<'or all his antics the 34 year old Conover is only 10-13-2 in his two plus years at Rice. Inspiration may be more than he needs. 
"He can say all he wants to and do all he wants to," said Parseghian, "but it's what his team does on Saturday afternoon that counts. You don't win ball games by talking." 
Conover should take a lesson from Ara. Parseghian doesn't need any gimmicks. He's a good coach. And he has class. 


"how far the ball goes as how high the ball goes." "A real good punt will stay in the air at least four seconds." 
At 6-0 195 lbs and with halfback experience, Brantley dismissed the possibility of running with the ball from punt formation. "No it never enters my mind. But if I did, I'd better run for a touchdown. 
Reeve and Brantley pointed out the importance of the center, senior Andy Rohan, and the holder, Back-up quarterback Frank Allocco, in the kicking game. Reeve said, "The center and the holder have al tougher job than I I do, and they deserve as much 
credit." Brantley described Rohan's snap-from -center as "the most important part of punt situations." 
Both business majors, they concurred almost to the word on the subject of handling game pressure. Reeve: "There really isn't that much pressure unless you inflict i~ upon yourself." 


Brantley: 'I go with what Tom Clements says, that pressure is self -inflicted.'' 
In four games this year, Reeve has kicked three field goals of 


22,32,and 38 yards without a miss. He has converted on 14-15 extra Notre Dame punter Tony Brantley has averaged 39.7 yards in four points. Brantley has punted 15 games this season. Along with freshman place-kicker Dave Reeve, he times for a 39.7 yard average and a must replace what coach Ara Parseghian called "the best kicking game long effort of 58 yards. we've had" last year. 
ND Invitational to be held Friday 







OBSERVER
by Pat Reidy 
The 19th annual Notre Dame Invitational cross country meet 

SPORTS
will be held Friday at 2 p.m. at 
Burke Golf Course. The meet, ru: 
in two divisions, annually attracts 
the finest competition in the 
Midwest. 
The College division this year 
will be missing defending cham­
pion Wisconsin, but will feature 

Irish ruggers down
Big Ten powers Indiana, Michigan and Michigan State. Other top teams in the field of 28 include Eastern Michigan Oast year's 


South Bend mnateurs
runner-up), Ball State and Bowling 
Green. The host Irish are looking 

to improve their 21st place of a by Bob Kissel 
year ago. 

and Jim Kovacs at inside corner Vying for individual honors in The Notre Dame rugby team played excellent games, prepping the Collegiate division will be last traveled crosstown to play the for Palmer's kicking attack next South Bend squads this past Sunday. Both players typified the
year's runner-up, Dave Kampa of weekend. For the South Bend improvements in the serum'sNorth Dakota, and top ten finishers ruggers the game offered an op-cornering and the backs' circlinga year ago Lucian Rosa of portunity for much needed ex-lpassing the ball and then comingWisconsin-Parkside, Rosen Sch­perience, but for the Irish the around behind to get back in thewegel of North Dakota State, and contest was a good warmup for movement>.

Nick Ellis of Eastern Michigan. 

next Sunday's crucial game The Irish 'B' squad blanked theIrish Coach Don Faley has also against Palmer College. South Bend 'B' team 20-0. Billsingled out Bob Bowman of Ball The ND 'A' team defeated South McHugh opened the Irish offense State, Wally Rodriguez of Toledo, Bend 'A' 27-6. South Bend got their with a 60 yard romp down the 
Dale Lindsey of MSU, and one and only score early in the sidelines. The other Irish scoring
Australian Gary Bentley of South game. The try was touched down was provided by Tom 'Brownman' 
Dakota State (1973 NCAA Division by former Notre Dame All-Hessert, two tries by Tony Men­
II cross country champion) as top American Larry DiNardo, off diola, and two conversion kicks by 
threats for medalist honors. whom many Irish defenders Mark Keown. 
The Open division also boasts an bounced all day. "We just plain outhustled South outstanding field. Spearheading The Irish dug in defensively Bend," explained rookie Tony heading this group are the last two 
while team captain Larry Casey Mendiola, "especially in the opened up the Irish offense with a second hald when these older guys Collegiate division winners, 1973's four point try to narrow the deficit. ran out of gas. Our movements toGordon Minty, formerly of Eastern Doug Mosser scored the first of his the wings worked really well, asMichigan, <Burke Course record two tries to give the Irish the lead can be seen by all the scoringholder) and Mike Slack, formerly at the half, 8-6. coming from long runs."
of North Dakota State, who With the wind to their backs in If South Bend provided the Irishrecently competed for the United the second half, the ND offense a "warm-up" for the notoriousStates against the Russian national opened up for three more tries, Palmer College, just who or what team. 

Jim Carr and Leo Ehrline added is Palmer College? Palmer
Other contenders will be Ken 

one each, and Doug Mosser his College is a school of chiroprac­Papejoy, ex-Michigan State sub-4 second try of the afternoon. Chet tory. Their rugby squad activelyminute miler; Glen Beahnke, Zawalich hit one penalty kick and recruits players from foreign partsformer NCAA Division III 6 mile two conversion kicks to round out like Wales and England to studychampion and cross country the Irish scoring. and also play rugby. Palmer, runner-up; and Notre Dame grads "The backs played as well as last along with the Chicago Lions and Dan Dunne, Pat Hollarn, and Gene week--outstanding," commented · the Irish, seem to have a monopoly Mercer will return for the In­rugby veteran Larry Casey," and on the Midwest championship. The vitational. The Invitation is the finally the serum began to really rugby team needs support to harriers last home meet this follow the play better, causing defeat perennial power Palmer, so 
season. They will be in action next overlaps and cornering after the come out this Sunday, at one, serum broke. We just worked behind Stepan Center to see someat the Wisconsin Invitational in better as a total offensive unit." of the best tugby played in theMadison on October 19. 

Both Mitch Wilkes at fullback Midwest--and possibly the nation. 




