OD The Inside 
Shuttle bus schedule 
...p. 15 
N D liturgies 
... p. 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, September 27, 1974
Vol. IX No. 22 
Bias charged in Despres appointment 
by Jim Eder Contributing Editor 
Charging that the University had practiced religious discrimination in selecting the new chairman of the Department ofSociologyand Anthropology, all six members· of the department's 
Committee  on  Appointments  and  
Promotions  (CAP) resigned  from  that  
body last May.  

Despite the unanimous CAP recom­mendation endorsing acting chairman Dr. Richard Kurtz, University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh appointed Dr. Leo Despres, a professor of anthropology from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, as the new department chairman. The appointment was made upon the recommendation of Dean Frederick J. Crosson of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Crosson announced the appointment on May 10 in a brief memo to the faculty of the Department of Sociology and An­thropology. The reasoning behind the decision was never revealed. Eleven days later Professors David Dodge, Frank Fahey, Richare Lamanna, Carl O'Neil and Julian Samora tendered their resignations as members of the CAP in a joint letter to Hesburgh. 
CAP Accusations "When the three top ranked candidates who are not Catholic are passed over for a Catholic who did not receive committee endorsement, it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the decision involved a significant degree of discrimination based on religious preference," wrote the six professors. After reviewing four applicants for the position of department chairman, the CAP submitted its ranking of the candidates to Crosson. Kurtz was listed first as the unanimous choice of the committee. Harland Boss of the University of Ken­tucky was considered "acceptable" and ranked second. John Scanzoni of Indiana University was deemed "unacceptable" and listed third. Despres was ranked fourth. Kurtz, Boss and Scanzoni are non-Catholics. Despres is a Catholic. The resigning CAP members blasted the procedure used in making the appointment as "a heavy-handed, retrogressive attack on the administrative and academic autonomy of departments." They accused the administration of violating the University Academic Manual by bestowing the rank of full professor and granting immediate tenure to Despres without consulting the CAP. "We object to the appointment of a new faculty member to fill a specific vacancy without consideration of departmental 
needs or the recommendation of the Committee on Appointments and Promotions. We object to his being granted tenure without consultation with or recommendation from the Committee," wrote the professors to Hesburgh last May. 
"We deelored the decision to reject the candidate for chairman who received the unanimous recommendation of this committee and to selected instead a candidate, who after careful evaluation, was not recommended by the committee in its report which was submitted to the Dean. We object to the lack of consultation and dialogue with the committee by the Dean in this selection process," they continued. 
Religious Preference 
Responding to the accusations of the resigning CAP members, in a letter dated June 17, Hesburgh refused to consider the charge that religious preference had determined the appointment. "I believe this is an unworthy observation," he wrote, "given the fact that we have now, and have had in the past, so many ex­cellent non-Catholic professors and ad­ministrators who have contributed greatly to the excellence of this University and have truly been at home and cherished here." 
Kurtz wrote Hesburgh in July, accusing him of "skirting the issue" of religious discrimination. ''Please be advised that it was not CAP members who first raised this issue," he pointed out, "rather, Catholicism as a significant factor in the decision-making was mentioned by Fr. Burtchaell in conversation with me and by Dean Crosson in conversation with Professors Lamanna and O'Neil, five days after the administrative decision was announced." 
Crosson in a subsequent letter to Kurtz 
contested the Kurtz account of the Dean's 
meeting with Lamanna and O'Neil. 
"These two gentlement will tell you that 
they raised the religion issue, not I," wrote 
Crosson. 
"Allow me to repeat what I told them: 
( 1) that this was not a part of the mandate to the Search Committee; (2) that neither I nor any member of the administration inquired about the new chairman's religion until after he had been offered appointment; (3) that he was a candidate selected by the Search Committee and voted on by the Department, not suggested or even known to me as a candidate before his name came up on these lists," Crosson explained. 
(continued on page 5) 



Though many seem to have had a hard time awaiting the Irish home-opener, the long rest is finally over. The 1973 National Champions go after their 14th consecutive victory at 1:30 p.m. tomorrow, and of course, the cheerleaders will again be selling rumperstickers before the game. (Photo by Zenon Bid:iinski) 


'Quickie' shuttle bus is student responsibility 
by Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter 

The attitude in the Student Affairs office is cautiously optimistic towards "The Quickie", a new Friday night shuttle bus service organized by the Social Commission and the Ombudsman service. 
"It is an opportunity for students to show responsibility," stated Just Paczesny, Vice-President for Student Affairs. "We'll play it week by week. Ifit doesn't work out it will be cancelled." 
The "Quickie" is scheduled to have a south and north loop. The south route will encompass the South Bend area including the downtown theatres, The Library, Scottsdale Mall, Roma's and the Town and Country shopping center. The north route includes stops at the Boar's Head, Denny's, Shula 's, and Kubiak's. The service begins at 8:30p.m. Friday and ends Saturday at 2:00a.m. 
Paczesny, who gave initial approval to the project, clarified his position. "I've qualified that I didn't like the idea of it just going up to Kubiak's and Shula's. But it is a wonderful opportunity for students to go out to the shopping mall and some of the pizza places in town." 
"I'm optimistic about it," said Fr. Terrance Lally, Vice-President for Student Affairs. He praised the work and planning of the Ombudsman and the Social Commission. 
"We have doubts about it," he said. "But I want it to work. I hope it works out." 
Lally emphasized that it was up to the students to make the Quickie work and support it. "It may even help eliminate the demolition derby up to Michigan," he stated. . 
From the Student Affairs viewpoint the bus service is not intended as a direct line to the Michigan pubs. "The bus provides transportation for students who have no other means. It so happens that there are taverns located at some of its stops,''cautioned Paczesny. It is up to students to deal responsibly with the new system," he noted. 
It was not felt that the "Quickie" will relieve much of the problem in the Louie's-Northeast neighborhood area. With the impending football weekend, the Friday bus service provides a good complement for the weekend's activities, Paczesny said. 
The "Quickie" is student-initiated and student-run. Lally saw the Student Affairs office role as assuring that the students are adequately serviced and the program is followed. A deficit is expected on the run, but, "It is the students' money," stated Paczesny. He suggested that if the fares were raised to $.25 each way, instead of $.25 for the ride out and only $.10 for the return, the shuttle bus could be self supporting. 

warld briefs 
TOKYO (UPI)-An earthquake jolted central Japan today, rocking office buildings in downtown Tokyo and halting bullet trains linking Tokyo and Osaka. The Meteorological Agency said the tremor registered four on the Japanese scale of seven. 
ANKARA (UPI)--Turkish farmers will begin planting opium poppy seeds on almost 50,000 acres innOctober under new govern­ment measures designed to keep the crop from becoming a source of heroin, Agriculture Minisster Korkut Czal said Friday. 
NEW YVI<K (UPI)-A nationwide retail census Thursday showed that nearly 20,000 gas stations went out of business across the nation during the past year, reflecting the country's continuing tight-money economy and the pressures of the energy crisis. 
an campus today 
friday, september 27, 1974 

12: 15 p.m.--lecture, "debate between christianity and marxism," by dr. p. walshe, lib. lounge 
1:30-4:30 p.m.--open house, for all students, especially seniors and grad students, placement bureau, ad. bldg. 
3:30 p.m.--lecture, "the dynamic modeling of social economic systems" by dr. w. llu, 303 eng. bldg. s p.m.--vespers evensong, log chapel 
s p.m.--mass and dinner, bulla shed 7 p.m.--pep rally, stepan 
7:30 p.m.--soccer nd vs. purdue calumat, cartier field 8, 10, & 12 p.m.--film, "the man", eng. aud. 
9 . 1 a.m.--dance, music by wind, stepan 
saturday, september 28, 1974 11 a.m.--multi-media show, "notre dame In review", wash. hall 
1:30 p.m.--football, nd vs. purdue, stadium class reunions, following game, ace fieldhouse 8, 10, & 12 p.m.--film, "soldier blue", eng. aud. 
8:30 p.m.--concert, sha-na-na and fresh flavor, ace 
sunday, september 29, 1974 

2:00 p.m.--meeting, talos, lasortune, 20 
4:30 p.m.--vespers, evensong, lady chapel 
noon"conversatlon with father hesburgh", wsbt-tv daily 10-s p.m.--art exhibit, pre-columbian, french, contemp. graphics, art faculty & masterpieces from permanent collection, nd gallery 
12-9 p.m.--art exhibit, "neon and drawlngs"--tom scarff, moreau gallery 
12 • 9 p.m.--art exhibit, "recent photographs"-·faye serlo, photo gallery 
12 -9 p.m.--art exhibit, "drawings and palntlngs"--sarlta levin, little theater 
Nixon irritated at denial of privileges 
WASHINGTON <UPI> Richard M. Nixon is very irritated by what he considers a "begrudging attitude" in the government to deprive him of the special privileges afforded other former presidents, an administration source said Thursday. 
"He feels everyone is giving him a hard time," the source commented in the wake of a Senate subcommittee vote refusing to provide Nixon with government-financed maid and butler service. 
The maid and butler service was scratched as part of the subcommittee's decision to cut by more than half of a requested $850,000 in federal funds to finance Nixon's return to private life. 
The source said Nixon, who has been hospitalized with a blood clot in his lung, was in a "very irritable" mood and particularly resented those ef­forts to limit his privileges as a former president simply be­cause he resigned in the middle of his tenure. 
Nixon views this as a "begrudging attitude," the source said, and he was particularly upset that Marine authorities had only "grudglin­gly" given him permission to use the golf course at Camp 

Pendleton,  the  mammouth  base  
near  his  estate  in  San  
Clemente, Calif.  

------. 
Undergoing renovation 


Senior Club to have new look 
by Mark Jahne Staff Reporter 

The Senior Club will have a new look this year. Presently un­dergoing major renovation, the name signifies a change in the atmosphere to be found there. The upstairs will be converted into a coffeehouse, while the downstairs will feature a bar area. 
Senior class members are working to get the club open as soon as possible. This will happen as soon as the many repairs and changes are completed. Down­stairs, a new stand-up bar is being installed, along with new flooring and ceiling tiles. 
Some walls have been knocked out for extra room, so that tables can be added. There is also a penny arcade being built in the back. 
Upstairs the Senior Club will offer a new, relaxed atmosphere. Tables and chairs will be supplied, and a small stage has been con­structed to provide entertainment. Wine and cheese will be served, along with a variety of other items. 
The rooms upstairs are now being paneled, carpeted, and are having acoustic ceilting tile in­stalled. Unlike the 'itandard style 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester (Sl.C per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
NOW AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
ONE FOR THE GIPPER 
by Patrick Chelland 
Warm, nostalgic, and rich in anecdote, One for the Gipper will delight old admirers of Knute Rockne 
s well as George Gipp and enthrall hose to whom this colorful, bygone i.ara is relatively unknown territory. 
i 
... $7. 95 
ALSO AVAILABLE 

PARSEGHIAN AND NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
by Ara Parseghian and Tom Pagna ... $9.95 
bar downstairs, the upstairs will offer a quieter type of relaxation, and hopefully a nice place to bring a date, according to Senior Class President Grag Ericksen. 
Within a few days club officials will name a Senior Club Manager, who will oversee the running of the entire organization. The club will by operated by the Senior Class, with limited assistance from the Student Affairs office, mostly in the person of Fr. Terrance Lally, Assistant Vice-President. Many people are working on the renovations, including Tim Adler, Ra~ Capp, Augie Grace, Burt Orr, Ch1p Romer, Bob Spana, Steve Waymel, and Tom Webber. Each is in charge of one particular room or area. 
Ericksen remarked that although t~e work is coming along, more help IS needed if the club is to be open by its target date of Oc­tober 10 or 11. Persons wishing to help get the Senior Club started may call either Spann at 233-6247 or Ray Capp at 1414 
2nd Floor 






Onefor 
THEGIPPER 
George Gipp, Knute Rockne, and Notre Dame 

3 
J 'l; :·; 

'j ;;' '• >·. 
' ~;
r 


1111~ 
IIIII 
Renovating the old... for a new atmosphere 
Placement Bureau interview rooms 

Student Government Offices 

Hayes-Healey Auditorium 
Observer News Office 
. • •, •, t '' I' t ·,' ~ J ) ' • '• ... -J 
• • • I t • '·~ :-. ·~ r, • ., 


Calley's attorney blasts Army 
COLUMBUS, Ga.(UPI) -An attorney for former Lt. William 
L. Calley Jr., lashed out at Army officials Friday for continuing to hold the ex-soldier in custody, saying they had ''one set of rules for draft dodgers and deserters .and one set for one who willingly served." 
U.S. District Judge J. Robert Elliott overturned Calley's My Lai murder conviction Wednes­day and ordered him freed "forthwith" from the Army disciplinary barracks at Ft. Leavenworth, Kan., where he is serving a 10 year sentence for slaughtering 22 persons while leading his troops on a sweep through the Vietnamese village March 16, 1968. 
Pentagon officials, however, formally requested Solicitor General Robert H. Bork Friday to seek a stay of Judge Elliott's order. Bork said a decision likely would not be forthcoming until later in the day. 
The court order was mailed to Ft. Leavenworth from Elliott's court in Columbus, Ga., and the Army has taken the stand it cannot act on the court decision until the order is in the hands of Ft. Leaven­worth authorities. 
"The court decree called for the Army to release him <Calley) forthwith and we hoped they would release him forthwith," said Kenneth Hen­son, one of Calley's attorneys. 
"Within a matter of three hours they released 145 convict­ed deserters from Leavenworth Prison pending a hearing to determine how they would qualify under the President's clemency program," Henson noted. 
"I feel that Mr. Calley should be afforded equal treatment at least," Henson said. "They've got a different set of rules-one set for draft dodgers and deserters and one set for one who willingly served and willingly obeyed orders." 
Calley contended throughout his court-martial that he merely was obeying orders 
Army tickets sought for youths 
by Chris Meehan Staff Reporter 

Dan Novak, chairman of this year's football ticket exchange program, announced yesterday that Notre Dame students will have the chance to share the ex­citement of the football season with South Bend youths. Students are asked to loan their tickets to the Octc:wer 19 Army game to'I children involved in the Neigh­borhood Study Help Program, the
J 
Logan Center, Big Brothers, Sr. Marita 's Day School and various other organizations. Novak, a co-ordinator of the Neighborhood Study Help Program, said he expects that around 400 tickets can be used for that program while about 300 more . tickets will be distributed among 
' ''! the remaining groups. The ex­
' change program will operate the 
•• same as last year's exchange. j The exact dates and other in­formation will be announced at a later date. At that time, there will also be a call for monitors and drivers for the day of exchange. 
An overwhelming response followed this appeal last year and Novak hopes that the response this year will be similar. Anyone in­terested may call 282-1784 for further information . 
when he and his men opened fire at My Lai, which had previously been pinpointed as Viet Cong stronghold. He initially was sentenced to life imprisonment for his role in the massacre, but this sentence was reduced to 10 years through the military appeals process. 
The  31-year-old  ex-soldier  
sought  further  relief  in  civilian  
c>ourts  after  exhausting  his  

appeals route in the military. 
Elliott, in striking down Calley sentence, said: "If there ever has been a case in which a conviction should be set aside, this is it." 
The judge said Calley had been the victim during his trial "unrestrained and uncontrol­
led" prejudical publicity,  that  
the  charges against  him  had  
been  improperly  drawn  and  

that he had not been given the right to confront unfriendly 
witnesses. 

In addition, Elliott contended in his 132 page ruling that the 
U.S. Supreme Court had decid­ed the Calley case when it held that former President Nixon had to turn over the Watergate tapes to congressional inves­
tigators. Nixon  had  claimed  
executive  privilege,  but  the  
high  court  ruled  that  the  need  

to get at the heart of the evidence in a criminal proceed­ing took precedence. 
Callt-y had asked for hearing transcripts from a House Armed Services Committee that investigated the My Lai affair, claiming they were vital to his defense. The committee refused to turn them over on grounds of legislative privilege. 
"If we substitute the word "legislative' for the words 'presidential' or 'executive,' we 
see  that  the  Supreme  Court  in  
deciding  the  Nixon  case  also  
decided  the  Calley  case,"  

Elliott ruled. 

shop today 1 2 NOON TO 5:30 

The Texas Instrument SR50 Now In Stock Exclusively at Ayres' 
Texas Instruments' newest slide rule calculator is now available at Ayres', the first store in the area to sell this calculator over the counter. The SRSO has many features and will take any root or power of any number up to the 
generous 12 character LED display. Other features include: 
• 
Full algebraic functions 

• 
Full trigonometry functions includ­ing arc sin, hyperbolics, and de­grees to radians switch 

• 
Full statistical functions including factorials and summations 


Business Machines, Lower Level 
----------------------------------------------------~ 
• 
1 2 Character LED display, 1 0 dig­it mantiss plus sign, and 2 digit exponent plus sign 

• 
Reciprocal Key and Pi Key 


• 
Full memory 

• 
AC adapter/charger and vinyl 


carrying case. Come by and see this calculator today. 149.95 

.. 
Friday, September 27, lt-74 the observer 5 
Controversy surrounds Despres apointment 
(continued from page 1) The University President con­:"Article III, Section 4 on the .."It was this apparent move to votes, he would have tied with ceded that the CAP is the sole Procedure for Appointment and circumvent the CAP and redefine another candidate, but the prior
Kurtz has recently charged that committee in the department with Promotion, and Article IV, Section the role of our departmental fact is certainly one way ofCrosson's letter to him was "filled 
legitimate authority to make 6 Subsection (a) on the function of Search Committee that elicited our 
deciding a tie, and besides, therewith half-truths." Despres, ac­recommendations to the dean the Committee on Appointments letter of April 25, 1974 to the Dean were a number of other factorscording to Kurtz, was a student in concerning appointments, te[)J.lre, and Promotions make it clear that attempting to claiify. our role in that were seriously considered," General Program at Notre Dame and promotions. He pointed out, every recommendation for ap­this matter," wrote the CAP Hesburgh noted in his letter to thewhen Crosson taught in that however, that this provision of the pointment or tenure 'is ·made only members. This letter has never former CAP members.

department. "The Dean must manual does not apply to the (emphasis added) after formal been acknowledged by Crosson, The University Pre!'ident wouldhave known that Despres was a selection of department chairmen. consultation with this committee,'; according to Kurtz. not expand on the other factorsCatholic before he was appointed," "The selection process for the the former CAP members pointed considered. "!.believe that it wouldsaid Kurtz. chairmanship is given in the out. The "enlarged" Search Com­be inappropriate to go into all ofOne of the two professors who mittee voted 3-to-2 in favor of
Academic Manual, Article II, "Moreover , the Dean explicitly these reasons at this point, but the spoke with Crosson after the ap­Despres over Kurtz, when each
Section 9," wrote Hesburgh, "and solicited the Committee on Ap­reasons do exist and they arepointment also accused the dean of committee member was asked to
there is no mention whatsoever of pointments and Promotion's important for the health and well­having "distorted the facts." The express his first choice for
intervention by the Committee of participation in the selection being of the department and theprofessor, who wished to remain chairman. The committee,
Appointments and Promotions. process and informed the entire College," he asserted.
anonymous, said that although he however, also ranked the four
"The responsibility of con­Department of his desire on April The CAP members questionedand his colleague did raise the candidates by a weighted vote.
sultation with the faculty rests 25, 1973, that the CAP act as a the validity of the Search Com­
issue"Crosson quite openly ad­Each committee member listed
with the Dean,"he continued, 'and search committee, "the professors mittee vote. "Even if one overlooks mitted to us that Despres' being the candidates in order of
while this consultation is specified wrote. 
the question of the legitimacy ofCatholic was one of the factors preference, giving 4 points to first

as formal, its method is clearly left 

involved in his appointment." "In short," they emphasized, "the place, 3 to second, 2 to third and 1 using this departmental com­
up to the Dean, who in this case Committee in making its mittee for this purpose and the
Crosson refused to comment on to fourth. Despres and Kurtz tied
chose a double strategy, that of recommendation was not acting appropriateness of placing on the
the appointment of Despres in this weighted vote.
individual consultation with all

yesterday. ''I don't feel it would be inappropriately but carrying out committee an outside member, the 
faculty memberrs and the use of a its formally defined respon­These two ballots were used by split vote in the Search Committee worthwhile rehashing the matter," search committee." sibilities under the Academic Hesburgh in defending Crosson's (3-2 including the outside mem­he said. 
Hesburgh also suggested that by Manual and responding to the decision to choose Despres. "As a ber's vote) hardly warrants"I don't mind the University making recommendations for the matter of simple fact," wrote overruling the unanimous
Dean's formal request."
trying to establish and maintain a chairmanship the department as a Hesburgh, "the report of the Search recommendation of the six-man
Catholic community," said Kurtz, The dean's request to which the
whole and the ·CAP members in CAP members refer came after Committee indicates that the man Committee on Appointments and"but using Catholicism as a particular attempted to undercut William Liu had resigned as chosen as chairman received the Promotion and the 14-5 Depart-measure of professional capacity 
the authority of the dean. "Ac­department chairman in 1973. largest number of first-place
enr~es me." Kurtz claimed that ltually there were two attempts After consulting with the other votes. In the matter of weighted <continued on page 11)religious preference is a violation within the Department which were
of civil rights. · members of the department, the
made ostensibly to hedge the 

CAP recommended that Crosson ~············································~ 
Kurtz also contended that discretion of the Dean: first, the appoint Kurtz as acting chairman • •preference is given to Notre Dame departmental faculty was publiclygraduates in appointing department for 1973-74. The Dean concurred ! LIVE MUSIC-DANCING i'
canvassed, and secondly, the 

and the appointment was made.
chairmen within the College of Committee on Appointments andArts and Letters. !PIN BALL MAD-liNES :
Promotions made a formal Search Committee 
Of the 15 department chairmen recommendation. Subsequently the department
within the College, 14 are Catholic !GREATAZZA :
"Legally, these are inap-established an ad hoc committee to
and nine are graduates of Notre • •
propriate; politically, they seem to seek candidates, make an initialDame. 
be intended to force the hand of the screening and submit the most !FeR A GCXD TIME : "The University is not only 
Dean,' Hesburgh charged. "If they attractive candidates to the CAPfavoring Catholics but inbreeding can be taken at face value, simply for final consideration. This : COVE TO : 
ND graduates as well," Kurtz said. 
as advisory recommendations, committee, which consisted of : . 
He believes that this was another then the Dean is entirely within his Professors Donald Barrett, Frankfactor contributing to the ap­:GUISEPPE'S ~TAUBANT i
rights if he accepts them, but !_le is Fahey, James Noell, and Carl
pointment of Despres. : .
not obliged to follow them," he O'Neil, came to be known as the 
ell:plained. Search Committee. i713 E.LASALLEAVE. ! 
Academic Manual Violations The former CAP members sent a The CAP members pointed out 
In addition to accusing the ad-second letter to Hesburgh, that this committee was "set up :•••••••••••••••••••••••J!~•••i.i.i•P.~.iJ.­
ministration of exercising responding to his charges that they with a clearly defined and limited 
religious discrimination, the CAP had attempted to "hedge the function that did not include 
members contested the selection discretion"of Crosson. "You ignore making a recommendation to the 
process used in appointing the new the fact that in this case not only dean." Crosson, however, added 
ciepartment chairman. Hesburgh, was a Chairman selected but a new Professor Donald Kommers of the 
however, upheld the procedure appointment to the faculty was Government Department as a fifth 
used by Crosson in nominating made at the rank of Full Professor member of the Search Committee 
Despres for the post, claiming that in a particular area of amnd informed the committee that 
the CAP members had misun-specialization and immediate he wanted it to submit a recom­
derstood the provisions of the tenure was granted,"wrote the six mendation separate from that of 
Academic Manual. professors. the CAP. 
******************************************************: 
: STUDENT UNION PRESENTS ~ 
''earafter vear~ scrhcsler Iaftersemcstcr, the (ollegeMaster from

I * SHA NA NA * ~ 
Fidelitv Union Life has

* *
* * been the most acceptl~
: * most popular plan on
* : campuses all over America.
* * 
* * Find out why.
* *
* *
* * Call the Fidelity Union
* * 
CollegeM aster 

* *
* * Field Associate
* * .
* * m your area:
* *
* * 
1005 E. LaSalle

* *
* * South Bend, Ind.
* * 
Phone 287-~327

* *
* *
i TOMORROW! 8:30 p.m. i i SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 28 i 
~ NOTRE DAN\E ATHLETIC&CONVOCATION CENIER ~ 
* * 
: TlO<ElS: $5.50I $4.50._ $3.00 :
* 0000 D<:KE'IS ARE SI1IL AVAilABlE AT 111E S'IUIENI' 1t
* UNION DCKET 0FFt<:E. AND AT 111E A.C.C. 9-5 'ron\Y & 'IDM)RROW 1t : ALSO moM 6:3). SRJWI1ME AT A.C.C. GA'IE 10 'IIOmT OFFI<E : 
\ Dave Wiff

••••••••••••••••Jt.¥¥¥•+••••••••••••••¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥..¥¥¥¥¥¥Jf.¥¥1t ...,.______A-ge_"'____________...,.. 

Al\1 INDEPENDENT STUDFNT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-11661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Fred Graver 
Milrtene Zloza
Editorial Editor 
Managing Editor 

Bob Zogas Terry Keeney Bob McManus Business Man<:ger News Editor 
Advertising Manager 
Septe~ber 27, 1974 


A Touch of Class 
Tomorrow, a national champion is coming home. The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame are returning to the Notre Dame Stadium at 
1:30 p.m. tomorrow with trophies, record hooks, and two victories, towards a second national championship. 
But most of all, they are bringing home that quality given to them by all of us to help them achieve their goal--that touch of class. 
Everyone associated with this university, from our lowliest freshmen to our most revered alumni possess a touch of class. It is not meant to be flaunted but to be fulfilled. It allows acheivemment but demands devotion. It is a classic hallmark of our tradition. 
Scalper's Delight 
Need tickets for the Purdue game? There's plenty of them floating around only if you're willing to pay the scalper's price of $20-25. And if you're really lucky, you might get a student ticket for $10. 
This is the situation as the opening game approaches. The demand for football tickets far exceeds the 59,000 plus supply of seats available: A student has a boyfriend or girlfriend, or family or friend visiting for the weekend. The student is hard pressed to come up with a ticket, but only if they have the money. For professional and student scalpers, the setting is perfect. 
The Observer's classified ads section is full of student willing to pay 'top dollar' for a general admission ticket. But students don't seem to realize first of all, 
The Irish begin their home campaign Saturday. They will again look to the Notre Dame family for their inspiration and their class. 
Let us, the students, premier tomorrow that touch of class for 1974 by acting prudently before, during and after the game. 
Socially, a tense situation exists. But with responsibile expressions of judgement towards underage drinking on-campus, towards coming on the field at half-time, towards passing girls up in the crowd and towards supporting the players on the field we can best represent a champion. 
A classy champion. 
Tom Drape 

that scalping is illegal. Any price over $8.50 is against the law. And secondly and most important of all, they're ripping off their fellow students. Obviously, for many of the sellers, it doesn't bother them--a buck's a buck! They don't think twice about turning aroundand clob­bering fellow students with their staggering prices. 
To compound the complete disregard they have for the othermembers of the community, they're selling tickets which they received FREE from parents or friends, or better yet for their position on or relating to the football team. 
It's unfair, its lowly and it has to stop! 
Al Rutherford 


A 'Quickie' Solution 
more than just a game that the SLC plays? 
The answer lies in developing areas on campus which can serve as central points for student activity on campus. The 'Nazz', a coffeehouse in LaFortune, is a step in the right direction, as was the square dance. The dance being held in Stepan center this weekend seems to be a start in seeking a solution. 
These events are not precluding the use of alcohol. Alochol has not really been abolished on campus. As the SLC clarification has wisely shown, reasonable use does not necessarily in­vite 'confrontations'; reason being what we are striving for in the first place. 
So, here we are, shipping ourselves into South Bend, into Michigan, as a response to the fact that we don't know what to do with ourselves without a little booze while on campus. That's really poor, because the result is we're merely carrying the problem with us. 
A realistic assessment of the situation will have to be made soon. It will take the co-operation of the SLC, the HPC, Student Government, The Ombudsman Service, and the students (who will soon tire of the 
r.....-----------'T.-H--E---0-B-~S-f:-R--~--'E-R----~-------~--~t ~n-th-.-.~u-rch-11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
It is ironic that on the first football weekend of the year, when the social life on campus is supposed to be at it's peak, that the off-campus 'Quickie' shuttle is beginning. 
As a separate entity, the 'Quickie' shuttle is a good idea. It is cheap, will service spots most frequented by Notre Dame students on weekends, and seems to be very well organized by the Ombudsman Service and the Student Union Social Commission. 
The idea for the bus is an indirect evolutionary step from past conceptions of off-campus shuttles, with two very large and distinct differences: the bus runs on weekends, not class days, and is not oriented directly towards student residence areas. The 'Quickie' bus is a means of tran­sporting students away from the University, towards a place which provides a more desirable social at­mosphere. 
This is an absurd commentary on what
,. 
has become an absurd situation. 
Why have we failed, in response to the present situation which prohibits use of alcohol on campus, to develop a way of life on weekends that does not hold alcohol as a primary factor? What will it take to impress upon us that 'finding new and more creative ways of socializing' is 
long  bus  rides).  and  that  assessment  
mus~  comesoon.  
Fred Graver  

.. 
the Grads, pt. 1 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 h u IJ h harman 
There is a bit more to say on the subject of grad life, than I've said here, though sometimes I doubt whether I am the ideal spokesman (l'nt an MBA, a class of grad of~en considered to be more jock than 'true• academian). I tried to·speak with a number of other grads before scribbling this out, but maybe I've missed the point somewhere. I would like to hear other grad's (and un­dergrad's) opinions on the subject <we famous syndicated columnists love fan mail>. I hope I've slurred enough people to get at least some response. 
There exists on this campus a large number of students which can be grouped under the heading 'Graduate Students'. Cross my heart and hope to die, I can prove it. I realize that neither the un­dergrads nor the administration seems to know much about them, nor care much if they do. And surely no one ever mentions them. Still, almost 15 percent of the student body here at du Lac consists of those phantom figures. 
There exist approximately 1500 graduate students, divided up into Law students, Master of Business Administration candidates, and the less vocationally oriented academic graduate students. You might indeed expect such a large body of student to exert some influence on the course of events here at Notre Dame, or at least vice versa. That's just not the case. 
Graduate students are roundly (and otherwise) ignored by the Administration. The most telling point is the assignment of graduate student halls: Lewis, Brownson, and Carroll. Grad 
housing needs have been met by the assignment of leftovers and life in halls where the lay graduate student is made to feel more like an unwanted guest, bearing out the Administration's policy toward the graduate student: ignore them. As a result, the graduate student ends up as a third class citizen in the N.D. community <undergrads, by contrast, are only second rate citizens). 
Nor can the grad student be called a part of the undergraduate community. The undergrad life here at Notre Dame revolves around the dorm, to the subsequent exclusion of both grad and off­campus students. Because of this it is very difficult, if not im­possible, for the graduate to become at least half-way integrated into the student community. The (male) grad who would like to meet, for instance, undergrad women (or graduate women for that matter) is restricted. The main device for co-ed interaction here at Notre Dame are the hall parties (or at least they were until the new alcogol rules) to which non-hall members are (rightfully) unin­vited, and although the idea of hall parties would seem to be ap­plicable to grad halls, it doesn't quite work. The idea of a real (i.e. halfway alive) hall party at Brownson or especially at Lewis is laughable. Carroll Hall has had such parties m the past (as recent as September, 1973!!) but there is a reluctanceon the part of the rector of Carroll to have undergrads invited for fear that such in­volvement would cause Carroll to become enmeshed in the politics of Macheca, Burtchaell, and the Administration. 
Consequently, meeting undergrads, especially if no classes are held with them, is more of a matter of chance and usually works (if at all> on the friends of friends (of friends) approach. 
Besides being the vestigial arm of the grad student political process, the Graduate Student Union has been charged with the improvement of the social life of the grad student at du Lac, a task which on the surface might not appear too difficult at all. Still, being a member of their constituency, I only hear from the GSU three times a year: at the beginning when we are charged for dues <mandatory), once when they plan the annual graduate student ski trip, and at the end of the year when the officers run for office again. 
There also appears to be some misconception around the University that grads are not people, but rather the personification of the pure student, usually tied in with the idea that they are in school only to learn. The typical stereotype of the grad is a pale, wan student with his nose either buried in a book or such up in the air as he quests after the fruit of higher learning. Unfortunately, there are those types of graduates at N.D.: apparently too tied up in their discipline to become any type of social animal, and it would be only slightly biased if it were not added that not a few of the social problems and problems of relating to the University community could be directly traceable to the attitudes of the grad studnets themselves. 
The inaction of the GSU could well be placed in the lap of grad apathy and the University could well be ignoring the graduate student because that is the way most <some) graduate students would prefer it. 

However, there are graduate students who would care to be a little more integrated into the University community, to escape the morgue atmosphere of Brownson, Lewis, and Carroll Halls to have some sort of social life. It is these graduate students who a're being shmt-ch::mged. 
the observer 
Night Editor-Bill Brink Assistant Night Editors-Valerie Zurbllss, Mary Janca Layout-Bob Brink, Karen Hoare, Mary 
Reher Copy Reader-Pat Hanifin, Ken Bradford Day Editors-Val Zurblls, Bill Brink Editorials-Fred Graver Tom Drape Features-J.R. Baker Sports-Greg Corgan Typists-Janet Carney, Anne Peeler, 
Mlchllle Arrleh, Tom Modglin, Rick 
Huber Compugraphic Operator-AI Rutherford Picture Screener-Albert D'antonio Night Controller-Dave Rust 
Goalie-Tom Whelan 
Howdy K.C. Klan 

-------------~ ---­
-------------~~----------­

Friday, September 27, 1974 the observer: 

7 

1 
Letters Ta A Lanely l:iad 


no infallible side of the room 

Sometimes, in the months when I am lucky, I am invited as a guest guru to one of those discussion groups where Seniors are instructors to the Freshmen. I can never remember whether these groups are called seminars or colloquiums, which may be why the Seniors get discouraged and don't ask me back again: what insights can be ex­pected from a gent who doesn't know whether he is seminating or colloquizing? Anyway, I sit as the ponderous parson on shabby furniture in the basement of Farley or the attic of Walsh, trying to look and sound like a sharpie who has gotten his head together, or his stuff together, or his shit together (the idiom is not mine!), or whatever in hell it is that people get together these days when they are trying to assume the sharpie image. 
The students, being bright, young minds from Cleveland or Omaha, are generally friendly, polite, and unimpressed; stifling yawns and gazing only occasionally at the wrist watch of the one person in the room who remembered that evening to wear his or her graduation gift Omega. And I, remembering the delights of being a teacher, think to myself: I could take their heads off with so specific a topic as the sexual imagery in Moby Dick; but I'm not sure I can spellbind them with a presen­tation of principles for a Christian com­munity. 
Anyway, I go at them trying to poke and 
probe with questions, hoping to find 
someone in the group who has had at least a 
lover's quarrel with the world. I feel quaint 
talking to them of the Civil Rights 
Movement, as though I were also urging 
them to support the Emancipation 
Proclamation. The anti-war movement? 
Well, they don't say so, but the anti-war 
movement was mostly supported by nuts 
and fanatics; and they gaze at me with an 
antiquarian's interest at seeing what a 
faded fanatic and-or nut looks like these 
days. The ecological problem? I really 
don't want to touch that one myself. World 
hunger? Yes, they agree, that is really sad, 
"but we've never really known what it is to be hungry," except for bad nights in the dining hall. Atomic annihilation? That could drive you bananas, if you thought about it. So: better not think about it. Watergate? Oh, God, they're so sick of hearing about Watergate, and anyway, all of them have fathers who are Republican lawyers. If you are going to play political games with Watergate in your discussion, what about the sex scandal at Chap­paquiddick? 
You sit there, feeling sick, because for ten years now, your priesthood has consisted in a passion for causes. Here, seemingly, is a generation without causes. What is a Christianity without causes going to be about? 
Freshmen entering college this year, you tell them, are estimated to have spent about 20,000 hours watching television. They nod their heads in agreement; it seems like a reasonable estimate, give or take a thousand hours. Could it be, you ask, that boob-tube watching has been the Great Tranquillizer, anaethetising consciences against social concerns? Does violence, dishonor, and disaster, viewed on the telly as a daily diet, now have the look of something deja vu? Probably, they seem to say, as though the deja vus of their world were easier to live with than the militant causes of yours. 
Now let me make one thing perfectly clear, as one of our Elder Statesmen used to say. I am not attacking these students. They are sensitive, bright, and beautiful peple, with zeal and commitments all their own. The problem here is mine: I have been ruined by the fervor in the life of the young on this campus, who, in past years, had me saying Mass at midnight on grassy knolls, to protest Vietnam and the napalm bombings. Could you believe that in an aging man, the fires are merely banked, and that I need to see again a passion fervent enough to talk about burning down the 
R.O.T.C. 
building? I do not want to see the 

R.O.T.C. 
building burned-1 never did, I 


faur way street 
never will--but I would like to meet again the fervor that could talk about it, then realize it would be the fanaticism of fools. I do not criticize students met at colloquiums (or is it seminars?); but I wouldn't mind if they got angry with me. Itis good for them, in p. world whose timbers are out of joint, to get angry at somebody; it is healthy for them to be excited by emotions more disturbing than love. 
I try to explainn to them-there are no infallible pretensions here-how I feel about the building of community. The Christianity of a place like Notre Dame begins with a vision. "Is Notre Dame still Catholic?" asks the Old Grad, meaning: "do the un­dergraduates still go to Mass?" The Old Grad is putting the cart before the horse, probably remembering his own days on campus when the Class Chaplains could issue the directive to Rectors: "We believe that any Catholic student who repeatedly misses Sunday Mass here should be separated from the University." (Religious Bulletin, vol. 35, September, 1955) 
Notre Dame is Christian, l Uiink, because it effectively recognizes the implication of a central dogmatic truth: "The Word was made flesh, and dwelt amongst us." Such an affirmation is a theologian's truth, but its influence touches every other discipline of learning. A biologist's truth may covet perfection for the human species (Biologists; be kind to my errors); hence the sterilization of the unfit may be theoretically acceptable. But a Christian biologist, or one working in the Judaeo­Christian tradition, would respect the sacredness of life in the most flawed human being. (Did the blindness of Homer result from genetic defect? Was the world im­poverished by the kind of vision old Homer had?) 
Without elaborate development, my point 
is this: the University is a place where 
many kinds of truth seek integration: 
religious, scientific, sociological, economic, 
commercial, humanistic. Because of its 
vision, gathered from inter-relating 
chewing gum and assaults 
palmieri, murray. baland, & smit.h 
breeze 

•• II II II •nu II 
Remember the Doublemint Twins? In pleated green skirts they came strolling down the country lane, somehow smiling while chewing while singing. Ever wonder what sor' of music they listened to after a long day of doubling their pleasure? It's "Breeze". Breeze, as demonstrated in their debut album of the same name on Just Sunshine Records, is chewing gum for the ears. 
"Soft Rock" is music which quasi-Top 40 FM stations calculatedly program to capture the post-bubblegum audience. Characteristic of this style, Breeze is well­engineered but over produced. Excessive and exploitive use of strings and every gimmick available tends to clutter-up the sound and render normally interesting bits tedious. In the vocal oriented genre of soft rock it is unusual for only two out of fiye to sing. The over-dubbing which results ex­poses the limits of both their voices and this technique. A commercially packaged product, Breeze contains little value. 
The band borrows heavily from other soft rock artists with no effort to conceal their thievery. In Breeze's rendition of Todd Rundgren's "We Gotta Get You A Woman", except for a tacky tear-jerker introduction, they attempt note for note imitation. They succeed only in the mechanics, freeze­drying the freshness of Rundgren. Their version of Bread's "Make It With You" is in bad taste as it steals completely, while in obvious competition. As if that's not enough, Breeze does a hideous arrangement ofthe classic Lovin' Spoonful song, "Do You Believe In Magic". A good, but stolen Sebastian harmonia lead is eventually engulfed in Ray Coniff vocals. The remaining songs are "originals" and selection seems inteded to corner the soft rock market. Lyrical inanity is familiar to all of their own songs but can be displayed best in their Jesus freak love song, "Jerusalem": He sat on the hill saying 
why why why oh Jerusalem oh Jerusalem 

The accompanying melody and harmonies cannot redeem them. 
The group's origins in part explains their deficiencies as well as their commercial nature. Breeze made their first demo before the members evern met each other, taping the instrumental and vocal separately. The pieces ;were connected by producers Buddy Scott and Herb Lovelle and recording engineer-drummer Ray Bardani. Other members include David Green on keyboards, Lenny Guistino on bass, Keith Good on electric guitar and vocals, and Rick Amendola on . acoustic 
I guitar and vocals. The musicianship itself is adequate-to-good but 1s generally uninspired, the only notable exception being Bardani's drums. 
It is doubtful that Breeze will make much success commercially or creatively. Poor lyrics, canned vocals, and a generally mediocre style will not impress many programmers at radio stations. Without the soft rock FM stations to push the product, Breeze does not seem to have a future as a band. Perhaps as studio muscians for Ray Conniff. 

arthur brown 
~B-SI-1111 I IIIII IIR·IB·JI-1 
And the parade continues ... Rock groups 
attempting to be labeled "progressive" 
continue to insert electronic gimmikry into 
their music which, for the most part, 
produces an over-bearing abundance of 
overworked and ultimately annoying 
assaults on the listener's ear. 
Arthur Brown's first attempt at this type 
of music, "Journey" by Arthur Brown's 
Kingdom Come, is another disappointment, 
and the only effect it might have on the 
developing field of electronic music is one of 
detriment. Following in the footsteps of 
such rock notables as Yes, Emerson Lake 
and Palmer, and Pink Floyd, Arthur Brown 
has employed an electric drummer (the 
Bentley Drum Machine), mellotron, syn­
thesizer, and a Theramin(???). The result 
is a conglomerate of Yes-like cliches to 
which Kingdom Come give a third-rate 
performance. 

In addition to the resemblance to a degenerated Yes musically, there is a thematic resemblence as well. The album covers features stars, planets, and comets, 
the compositions·have distantly cosmic titles 
<Time Captives, Corpora Supercelestia) 
and the ultimate in progressive music, a 
three-part conceptual piece, opens the . disciplines, the University acts among other 
•things, as a critic to the state, industry and the professions; to science, technology, and the market place. It can serve as a critic to the Church itself, and help keep it honest. (Who keeps the University honest, you ask? Smart-ass questions are not honored here.) From the integration of disciplines in a Christian vision of truth, theologies are shaped, liturgies are developed, the life of worship flowers, programs for human development have the beginning of their philosophies. Nothing truly human is foreign to the life of the Christian university. 
The small Christian communities that develop on the dormitory level are a way that students have of participating in the larger life of the University. It is not the devotional life of the student that gives the place its Christian vision. Itis the Christian vision and commitment of the place, existing before anyone of us-anyone of us at all--came here, that overflows its energies into our lives and makes us want to be part of the mainstream of what Notre Dame is, or was intenderi to be. 
But a Christian in the mainstream is engaged in an eternal warfare with sin and selfishness, suffering and exploitations, both within himself and in society. All of us must be disturbed by a divine discontent, carrying on our lover's quarrel with the world. 
That is why I am disturbed by students who seem tranquillized by their acceptance of the universe. That is why I wish for them 
a passion fervent enough to talk of burning down the R.O.T.C. building, without their being foolish enough to really do it. 
Dear students, met in seminars and-or colloquiums, do you understand how Darby and I can speak of these things, and still insist we really love you? If I am wrong about the way you feel or the things I think, please invite me back and tell me so. One of the really nice advantages of seminars and colloquiums is that there is no such place as an infallible side of the room. 
second side. 
Arthur Brown himself has had a fairly 
unsteady career as a pop-rock artist: on hit 
single <Fire in 1968) and years of being a 
weird eccentric performer who was largely 
ignored. His previous album was entitled 
The Crazy World of Arthur Brown, and his 
stage show in the late 60's has been called "a 
strange spastic dancing like some sort of 
space-ageritual." While all the dance, 
costume and theatrics mat have impressed 
his sparse audiences, the music of Arthur 
Brown was unimpressive and the weirdness 
of the act and music finally turned-off any 
potential fans that he might have had. 
So 1973 finds Arthur Brown making 
another attempt at stardom, this time 
channeling his trademark weirdness into 
electronic music. The product of this new 
direction for Arthur Brown is no better than 
his previous dismal efforts. 
The music on "Journey" is a monotonom, 
string of similar sounding misuses of 
musical instruments. From the opening of 
the album with an extended and plodding 
drum "solo" by the Bentley Drum Machine, 
to the screams and simulated choirs of the 
second side,the music on this album taken 
as a whole has little or nothing to offer. 
Arthur Brown's music is a poor attempt at 
surrealism. The combination of archaic 
Gregorian chants with the supposed 
futuristic themes of so called "space-rock" ' 
just doesn't work for Arthur Brown. 
Although he likes to think of himself as a 
chilling, frightening sorcerer of sound, in 
reality the music of Arthur Brown holds no 
meaning for anyone but himself. 

~=--·=~~ -~~----------­
Irish Guard-the prestige unit 

by Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter 
Wearing tall, black shakos, flashing red doublets, and the Irish kilt and cape, the Irish Guard leads the band with their high-stepping precision marching. Mr. ({obert O'Brien, the band director, characterized the group as "The prestige unit which most typifies the spirit of the Fighting Irish." 
Formed in 1951 by then band director H-Lee Hope and J<'r. Keough, the group has remained a close-knit, intensely spirited division of the band. The guard is an integral part of the band with its formations and routines, yet even there it remains a privileged class. 
One must be at least six feet two inches tall to join the Irish Guard, and with the furry black shakos perched on their heads, the group towers awesomely over the crowd. The rest of the uniform is patterned after a Scottish or Irish military garb. 
A plaid cape is fixed by the cairngorn, a polished stone pin from an Irish mountain range, to a papal red doublet. The sporrn, a horse hair ornament originally designed to carry food and ammunition, is worn in front over the traditional Irish kilt. Black shoes with white spats finish the uniform. 
In addition to these, Mr. John Fyfe, the guard drillmaster, wears a short bladed claymore and a skean dhu. Originally, the skean dhu was a small knife used to skin game, but Fyfe uses it to make last minute uniform repairs. 
Their colorful garb makes the guard the center of attention for fans, but Terry Cavanaugh, the guard captain, said that the attention of 60,000 people does not bother him.. "You're nervous at first waiting in the tunnel for the pregame, but once you get out on the field you don't think of anything. You're always concentrating on what the step is and where your next move is." 
Their regular practice sessions are not too regimented. but on football Saturdays the group turns into emotionless 1 precision ll)<_lrchers.. "This is especially tough on S;Murdays," mentioned Cavanaugh, ''when the old -guard members come by to examine the group." Any guard member who smiles under examination forfeits the right to march in the next home game." You try to think about your mother or something," said Cavanaugh. 
The twenty-three years of the Irish Guard have been a constant struggle to make the group more Irish and more embodied with Notre Dame tradition. The first kilt was that of the Black Watch Scottish military group. Next the guard adopted the plaid of the Scot­Irish family McNeil of Barra. 
In the 1960S O'Brien and Fyfe collaborated in producing Notre Dame's own trademarked Irish plaid in blue, gold, green, black, and red. The colors sym­bolize Notre Dame, Ireland, and Catholicism. The kilts themselves are sewn in Scotland. The new kilts arrived last fall and will be worn for the first time at the Purdue game. 
The Irish Guard marches in full regalia at home football games, the away game of the band trip, and other special events. Last year the group led the parade down Bourbon Street in New Orleans at the Sugar Bowl and marched in the St. Patrick's Day tlCJrade in St. Louis. 
The new "rookies" of the guard must endure a rigorous initiation before being accepted into the full fraternity of the guard. Last year new members had to do su.-h things as shave their arm pits, but "Zap" comics, and catch a fish from St. Joe lake. One of the 1:1en caugh t a three inch carp, but it died before the presentation. To save his neck, he explained that its name was Fido and he had taught it to play dead. 


Mr. John Fyfe is a native Scotsman with an accent so Fyfe underwent open heart surgery several years ago. heavy that one can hear both r's in sporrn. He came to Marching for the guard is not always a pleasure. the group in 1960, after having served in the Scottish Traditionally in a rookie's first march, the kilt is Army during World War II, and whipped the group into pinned through his flesh as an aid to concentration. its present professional form. When he arrived, the One of the worst chagrins for the guard occurred in guard was so bad, "They had string holding the plaid New York one day when the field was a quagmire of on and they wore old army spats up to the knee." mud. The guard ran out of the tunnel and three 
The Irish Clog, a dancestepperformed by the guard members promptly slipped and fell into a huge puddle. after victories, was inspired by an old Scottish dance Precision marching demands a concentration that is known by Fyfe. O'Brien wrote the tune Damsha Bua difficult to sustain. Tim Jordan, a second year man, <Gaelic for victory dance) for the step. remarked what other members did to Loncentrate. 
One measure of the closeness ort'he Irish Guard was "What Jim <Donnelly) always thinks about is getting seen when the member s all donated blood when Mr_ back in step with everyone else." 
Tom Bu-ke provides it 



Position requires leadership 
lot of running and basically tried to field of engineering.keep healthy," he admitted. Before becoming drum major,Many people play an integral Burke, a junior from Cleveland, Burke played trumpet for two part in the Notre Dame com-Ohio, lives in Cavanaugh Hall. He years with the Notre Dame band. 
~munitya nd are never given proper is currently majoring in In high school, he was in the bandrecognition. One such person is Mechanical Engineering. After 
all four years, two of which wereTom Burke, drum major for the graduation, Tom plans to enter the spent as drum major.
University of Notre Dame Mar­ching Band. 
Burke's primary duties are to direct the band,lead marching and organize formations for the half­time shows of home football games. "I hope to provide the leadership necessary to have a gr~at band, on and off the field," sa1d Burke. 
This year's drum major was chosen after a series of auditions last spring. The job of drum major is a staff position with the Notre Dame band. Burke puts in bet­ween fifteen and twenty hours weekly on band practices, organizational meetings and chairing meetings of the show committee. 
Burke acknowledged the fact that he has a lot less free time this year, than in the past. He cited the fact that there are no specific number of hours that he must dedicate to the band. 
"There are simply a number of tasks that I am responsible for 
carrying out, that are imperative to have an effective marching band," he said. He feels that it is all a matter of scheduling time effectively and setting proper priorities. 
Previewing this year's band, Burke noted that not only is it the largest in history, but it has the potential for being the finest ever. "I really hope that band members will want to work 'with' me instead of. for me," he said. 
He noted that enthusiasm is an important element in the success of the band. "I hope the band will 'want' to do a good job instead of 'having' to do a good job," he said. 
.................................. 


As well as musical and Band on the run leadership abilities, the drum major must keep himself in good Supplement Editor: AI Rutherford physical condition. Tom's biggest Staff: Terry Keeney, Tom O'Neil, Ellen Syburg, Mike responsibility during the summer Rizzo, Andy Praschak was to keeo in good shape. "I did a Photographer: Zenon Bidzinski 
Friday, September 27, 1974 the observer 
' 

A small but great marching band 
by Thomas O'Neil Staff Reporter 

What is the 1974-75 Marching Band like? Well, 
according toNic Catrambone, president of the Band, 
it is "unique". 
"The Band is actually a social organization", ac­
cording to Catrambone. "\here is a sense of family 
in the Band. Parties and informal gatherings are 
frequent and there is an element of enjoyment in 
everything we do." 
The quality of the shows is improving, Catrambone explained. A greater variety in performance is emphasized. For instance, for the first time in its history the Band performed a song and dance routine at a home football game last year. A unique presentation of "The Entertainer" is planned for the Purdue game tomorrow afternoon. 
The Notre Dame Marching Band has been known for being stricter with its members than most other bands. The music for each show must be memorized beforehand so the marcher can concentrate on movement and performance. 
There is a two hour rehearsal for the Band every day plus "sectional" practice where each marcher practices with his section. The Wednesday before the Home Game is "Our Night", one night when the Band will stay out until it knows the entire show. 
Catrambone compared the ND Marching Band to thoseat Purdue and Michigan State. "They don't really have bands," he said. "They have armies. 
When they pour out onto the field you can't tell if 20 marchers are making mistakes, he noted, "but because we are so small, each one of our members has to outmarch 20 members of the other band. And we do it." 
The Notre Dame band is larger than ever with 157members, 35 of whom are women 
The ND Marching Band is larger than ever this year with 157 members, 35 of whom are women. Women were first admitted to the Marching Band in 1972 when eight women joined. 
"The admission of girls to the Band has made a great impression. The Band used to be a collection of dirtballs," according to Catrambone. "But since the women joined us we have had a good time instead of a drunken row." 

' 


Oldest in country 
First appearance made •
1n 1846 

The Faculty Director of the Band is Dr. Robert O'Brien, who has served in that position for 21 years. He is affectionately called "0-B" by Band members, and he is known among them for being both strict and personal with individual marchers. 
"He keeps a constant standard of performance," according to Catrambone. "his strong point is organization, but he is nevertheless extremely personable. By the first homgame of every year he knows us all by our first names. He is the best thing we've got." 
There are two major parts within the Band framework, Catrambone explained. There is the administrativepart which is headed by the Band officers. They are -responsible for planning Band trips like the one planned for the Michigan State game, as well as picnics and banquets, keeping at­tendance and managing dues. They are also responsible for the spiritual attitude of the Band. 
by Ellen Syburg Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame Band, the{)ldest college band in the country, is enjoying its l28th year of existence. Its first documented appearance was the commencement exercises of 1846. When the football team made its home debut against Michigan in 1887 the band was there and has been highly visible ever since. 
This long, proud tradition does not prevent the band from being one of the most innovative marching unilts in the country. The Band of the Fighting Irish was among the first to include pageantry, precision drill and "picture" formations in its half-time and pre­game shows. 
The group was part of the initial experimentation with electronic equipment such as walkie-talkies and amplified instruments. Their most recent ex­perimentation has been with the first one-headed marching drum and hi-stepperdrum carry. This latest development assists the drummer in performing Notre Dame's famous and dfficult hike-step routine. 
There is an old legend that says those students who did not make the football team immediately tried out for the band so that they could still travel and see the country, Knute Roe1me, for example, played flute for Notre Dame long before he thought of coaching. 
The band is, in fact. one of the most travelled groups 
The other part is the Core Band, "the band within a band." They are upperclassmen and the best mar­.chers who display leadership abilities. They are responsible for freshmen and other new Band rpembers. Tom Burke, Drum Major, is in charge of tile Core Band. 
"But beyond all this, • Catrambone continued, "beyond all the responsibility, strictness and organization, the Band must be the most bizarre organization for fun and friendship. Our favorite 
tradition, for instance, is the pre-rally rally which is exclusive to the Band. We all first have a few drinks in a friend's room and then get dressed up in the craziest rigs we can find. Then we get a cigar and soak it in rum, each of us, then get together, smoke them and play "number seven" (i.e. "In Heaven There is No Beer"). And then we just raise hell till the rally." 
"We're a small, but great marching Band," he concluded, "and being in the Band is truly a unique and valuable experience." 


of its kind in the country, tsesutes Its extensive per­formance during the football season, the band per­forms at many civic functions and dedications. It has also been the logical nationalchoice to lead countless St. Patrick's Day parades. 
The band played a benefit concert for the victims of the Chicago Fire in 1871. It has also been on hand at the Circle to play for Notre Dame Students leaving to serve in every war since the Civil .. war. 
Besides its reputation for technical innovation and travel, the band is famous for the music it plays. The "Notre Dame Victory March" was first performed in 1908. Since then it has become one of the most copied and paraphrased college songs of all time. 
"Notre Dame, Our Mother", the school's alma mater, was composed by a former bandsman and band director, the late Joseph .. Casasanta. Casasanta directed the band from 1919-42 and composed several other school songs including "Hike , Notre Dame" and "When Irish Back s Go Marching By". 
The band continued its innovative tendencies when, 
in 1970, the all-male tradition was waived and women 
from St. Mary's College :were incorporated into the 
marching unit. This co-educational aspect was, of 
course, enlarged when Notre Dame admitted its first 
women undergraduates in 1972. 
With its deserved reputation for technical innovation 
and musical excellence the Band of the Fighting Irish J 
will undoubtedly remain an important aspect of the 
Notre Dame tradition. 






21 organizations receive funds 
by Lonnie Luna §=­

Starr Reporter BUDGET ALLOCATIONS The Student Government Budget Committee decided 5 1974-1975 Wednesday on cutbacks of funds to c~mpus organizations. ~Student Union $40,000 Stud~nt Governm~nt, S~udent Umon! and the Hall §student Government 23,125 Pres1d~nt's ~oun~1l rece1ved the maJO~ _share of the 5HPC allocatiOns w~th e~ghgeen oth~r clubs_ receiVIng shares. 5 Hall Life Fund 8,500 ·we are mamly concerned With makmg the students aware :: An Tostal 
4,500 .of where the funds are being distributed,' stated Mike ~Intern at i 0 n a 1 students 1,500Schnaus, student government treasurer. Schnaus gave four :: ­
1.500

guidelines for this allocation of funds. §M~CHA 
1,200

The strictest guideline set was the Student Government's 5Ne1~hborhoo~ Study Help 
1,000

refusal to subsidize club parties and social activities because §SOciety of UJam~a in the past," much of the cluh' alloted money was spent §WSND AM-FMC1rcle K earrlcssly. Another guideline parallel to the first was the ~ . number of club members and-or how many people it would ;:G~mnashcs Club benefit. Each budget request was reviewed thoroughly to the ~Fmance Club last digit. Where funds could not be provided, the Student ~Red. Cross Government advised the club on how to raise money and ~ Balt1c Club . how, in general, to handle their internal finances. gPre-~aw Soc1ety 
Clubs appealing their budget allocation are to submit their .§ Ro.~mg Club appeal to Mike Schnaus before 5:00p.m., Monday, Oct. 7. gSa!lmg Club 'The Student Government received a mild increase ;:Lacrosse Club 
because it has been more active compared to last year,' said ~Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
50 

Schnaus. ;:AIESEC The following is the official allocations: ­
SMC housing director nCillled 
by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 

Nannette Blais has replaced Karen O'Neil a·s director of housing at St. Mary's. Blais took office Wednesday, Sept. -25. O'Neil is now director of placement. 
"Just having arrived here, I have made no definite plans to change anything. I have some va 
I still haven't received by permanent I.D. and I'm sure that there are many other Freshmen who haven't gotten theirs either. Will we be able to get into the football games with our temporary I.D.'s? 
All the Freshmen who haven't yet received the permanent I.D.'s can use their temporary I.D.'s with their football ticket to get into the games for as long as it takes for tQe regular I.D.s to get to you. 
We still have some paint from painting our room left over. Is there any place shere we can return the excess? 
All excess paint can be turned in to the head Janitor of your respective hall, who will turn it over to the Maintenance 
... 
D~partment of Notre Dame who in turn will store it for next year's pamters. The last day for turning paint will be October 4 . 
When is the N.D. Ice Skating Rink open for students? 

The Notre Dame Ice Rink offers its facilities free of charge to the students, faculty and staff on Monday, Wednesday and Fridays from I2:00 to I :00. On Tuesdays and Thursdays the faculty and staff are allowed to skate from 11:00 to I2:00 free of charge and there is staff and facultt hockey from 12:00 to I :00 . 
NOTE: The "Quickie" shuttle bus is in operation today. 

THE LARGEST SPORTS ISSUE EVER PUBLISHED 
Esquire presents the biggest, most com­prehensive all sports issue ever, a virtual Olympics in print. Match wits with the ex­perts and find out what you really know about golf, baseball, football and basketbalL Learn who the best coaches are in our high schools, colleges and among the pros. Find out who's who in the Sports Establishment in which Esquire puts 314 sports personali­ties in their proper places. 
For these and many, many more exciting sports highlights enjoy features by Bobby Riggs, Ben Hogan, Jimmy Cannon, Gay Talese, Irwin Shaw, Roger Kahn and a wealth of other outstanding authorities. Don't miss Esquire, now on sale. 
selection procedure, but most do some research first," Blais commented. 
Blais, a resident of Bourbonnais, Illinois, graduated from SMC this year, with a liberal arts degree in French. "I think this job will 
provide me with a great op­portunity to be creative. I'm in­terested in meeting and dealing with people," sne said. 

"This job also offers me the chance to be of service to every aspeet of the community. The 
housing office is very versatile and ;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::lJ:: encompasses every aspect of the ;:;:; ;:;: community: parents. alumnae,::::: l-lave a BIG appetite? :::: 
students, faculty and ad-:;:3 :;~ mm1strators," Blais explained. ~=~~ .S \' •• ~;~; For the next two weeks Blais will ~~~~ '-~ \ ~~~~ be researching the room selection ;:;:; ;:;: 
p~ocess an~ familiariz~ng her~elf :~~~~har'S BIG BQIY RESTAURANT~~~~ 
w1th the off1ce. "My first proJect ::::: :::: ~ill be preparing fo~ roo~ c~anges :~;~; 5 2 8 6 0 U S 3 1 N 0 r t h ;~:~ 
m November. Th1s Will mvolve :::: • • :::: transfer students, students ;:;: :::: 
returning from Europe, as well as :~:~ TRY OOR COUNTRY FRIED Q-ICJ<EN ~:~: 
students requesting room ;:;:{ ::;: 
changes,'' said Blais. ? SPECIALS 0\J TUESDAY AND THURSDAYJ:: 
"Thinking ahead, I would like to :;:; ~ see the r?o.m pick proces~ become ~~~~ Phone 272-9720 for carry~ service ~~~~ 
more eff1c1ent and as fa1r to the :::: :·:· students as possible,'' she stated. ::::::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::;;:::::::::::::::::::::~:~. 
~· 

~M·DW'IID!Drl®ll~~ 



STUDENT UNION 
PRESENTS 


SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 29 7 & 9:15P.M. Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 
300 200 200 150 150 I 50 100 100 100 100 75 
French Club -0­Psychology Club -o-IEEE -0­Pre-Med Society -0­Right to Life o-o Arnold Air Society -0­Volleyball Club -o-Chess Club -o-Glee Club -o-ISLI -0­Minnesota Club -o-Wranglers' Society -o­
-o-Total -$83,000 

i······iianam·s:rREET·····~ : ADULT THEATRES ~ 
: X 2 F1LJ.VS : 
: X BOCBSrCH: i 
: X LIVE FLCXE SHOW : 
! 1316 SCXJTH MICHIGAN STREET i 
: • CALL 282·120~ fnR INfP.DAAAl'lnN:
•••••••••••••••••••l"'••...,••••••• eiYZRJ ll"'ll".: 
On dining hall steps 
ND Grad wages personal 
by Dennis Kelly Staff Reporter 
A Notre Dame graduate is waging a one-man war on the steps of the two campus dining halls. His battle cry: "A penny is equal to three bowls of porridge, a dime is equal to thirty ! " 
He is AI Sondej, a 1974 graduate with a degree in sociology. In eleven days of campaigning this semester he has collected $751.36 for three major overseas relief services. Sondej terms the response of students and campus visitors to his pleas "un­believable." He adds, "It really is something to sacrifice for people you 'II never see or be thanked by." 
Sondej first became involved in human welfare four years ago as a member of the Notre Dame chapter of "Students for Biafran Relief." Later he joined 
"Students' World 

Concern", a group which sought 
aid for victims of the Bandladesh 
crisis. He noted that the driving 
force in his work with these 
organizations was the ideal of Fr. 
Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Dame 
President and noted spokesman on 
human rights, on "the role of in­
terdependency among world 
nations." 
It was also during his un­dergraduate stay at Notre Dame that Sondej developed a statistical knowledge of the world's social problems. "Statistics strike me," he explained. 
"It's something when one realizes that out of a world population of 3.8 billion, 2 billion are malnourished, 2 billion never see a doctor, 2 billion enjoy a per­capita income of only $100 per year, and 810 million adults are illiterate," he added. 
With these things in mind Sondej made the crusade for human rights his own. On Ash Wednesday in March, he began collecting donations from passers-by on the steps of Notre Dame's dining halls. 
Holding a tin can, he called for coins to help feed the world's 

by Maryfran Hayes Staff Reporter 
"Since a new University rule forbids outside organizations to solicit on campus, this year's volunteers of the Heart Fund will be stationed outside of the campus prior to the Notre Dame-Purdue game," explained Notre Dame Senior Jim Meehan, chairman of the Notre Dame Heart Fund Campaign. 
The American Heart Association's North Central In­diana Area is a non-profit organization which aids in com­munity service. Last year the Heart Fund collected $35,000 for St. Joseph Countv; $17,317 went to Notre Dame for heart research. 
Thus far, 21 Notre Dame students have volunteered for this year's campaign. However, Meehan stressed that volunteers are always needed, and those interested should attend the organizational meeting on Wed­nesday, Sept. 25 at 6 p.m. in Flanner Penthouse or call Meehan at 1081. The purpose of the meeting is to assign stations to the volunteers and establish route procedures for the collection of money. 
• ~ \, ~ I ' ' "• ·' .1 o .1. .l-.~ \ .\ .\ 'o .'. 
hungry. 
Upon graduation in May, Sondej obtained a position as a main­tenance man with the Notre Dame Food Service. September 15 saw him in front of the dining halls again, but with a plastic milk container instead of a can to hold the donations. 
When asked why he is serving the world's poor in his present . capacity, Sondej responded: "I 



Choice of dept. headdisput_ed 
sulted with most tenured faculty of 

(conti'!ued from page 5) the department before making ment votes" wrote the six CAP this decision is "simply not true." professors. Kurtz said that he has talked 
with several faculty members and Lack of Dialogue has "not come across a single

Kurtz charged that there has person who was consulted bv the been a "lack of dialogue" between Dean." Two other sociologythe administration and the professors contacted expressed the department about the chair­game finding. One even said that manship. He contends that in the four changes in chair­Crosson's claim of having con-manship that he has seen as a 

Heart Fund to solicit volunteers off campus 
The Heart Fund anticipates other fund-raising events such as another football game, a fashion show and a bike-a-thon. Satur­day's event is sponsored by the First National Bank and station WSBT. Anyone who wishes to contribute to the Heart Fund can make their donations! at the Heart Fund office at 3010 Mishawaka Ave., Soth Bend, Ind. 

professor he was never consulted 
by the dean. 
In a letter to Kurtz Crosson explained that he consulted the faculty through the Search Committee. "I did not meet with all faculty, because as in the other departments where a search committee was set up, that committee is intended to act as departmental spokesman," he wrote. 
Crosson also pointed out that he spoke with two members of the CAP for an hour and a half about the appointment. Kurtz, however, noted that this discussiontook place five days after the appointment was announced. 
"I define dialogue as discussing the issues before a decision is reached and being told the reasons for the decisign before it is an­nounced," said Kurtz. "What Crosson considers dialogue is defending a decision that has already been made," he charged. 

In the MINI-MALL at TOWN & COUNTRY Shopping Center 


DOWN 
VESTS & SVVEATERS 
JO% a=F VIIITH THIS AD 
ALL TOP BRAN~ OF SKI 
EQliPNENr OOW IN STOO< 
----~--~----------------­
. ,F:ri~ay,_ S,eptember. 27, 1974 the obse·rver 11 
-~--.;.....;. 

war on poverty 
would have to go back and learn a CARE brought to the people of 
skill to go overseas. If anything is Niger 553,460 pounds of ready-to­
needed overseas, it is money. eat high protein foods, along with 
People are needed badly there, but almost 30,000 pounds of medicines 
so is money. Hikewhat I am doing and related supplies. Sondej said, 
here." "One of the great things about 
The moneys collected by Sondej CARE is its ability to turn a $1 
go to three organizations: Catholic donation into $6.36 of services." 
Relief Services, CARE, and UNICEF, the United Nations 
UNICEF. He emphasized that the International Children's 
important feature about these Emergency Fund, utilizes an $81 
three agencies is that each of them million annual budget. It provides 
strives to help the poor help services to children such as 
themselves. education, day care, immunization 
He noted that the Catholic Relief against disease and meal 
Services feeds over 10 million' programs. Sondej noted, 
persons every day. It feeds "Education is necessary in the 
pregnant mothers at special health fight to alleviate poverty." 
clinics, children at school and men Sondej expressed a hope that 
working at construction projects "this country will develop a sense 
like irrigation ditches and public of awareness of other countries." 
buildings. He emphasized that a distribution 
CARE feeds over 28 million of wealth among all nations will people daily all over the globe, "eventually come about." while helping to teach skills to the AI Sondej is a battler, In his own unemployed and family planning way, he is making a dent in the to married couples. Currently this problems of poverty and hunger. organization is working with the Moreover, in his own way he is victims of the six-year drought making an imprint of selflessness which has plaJ:(ued such western and charity upon the Notre Dame African nations as Ni!!er and Chad communi tv. 
··········•••¥································•
•

• TIRED OF THE SAME OLD THING? • 
: FOR AN INI'E~TING <BANGE : 
: 1RY OUR MENU: : 
: BURRITOS TACOS : : FRIJOLES TOSTADAS • : ~ BELLBURGERS ENCHIRITOS:
. .
• ~ • 
: 52200 U.S. 31 NORTH • 
..............................................• 

OF SOUTH BEND 

PRESENTS FOR YOUR ENTERTAINMENT & PLEASURE 
'FREE AND EASY' 
6 NIGHTS A WEEK 

ENTERTAINMENT SUNDAY 8:00. U:OO ALSO 'Ilmi>AY 11IROlOI SA'ItJRDAY 

FOR INFORMA110N CAlL ~ 



COME TO THE BULLA SHED AN> BRING A FRIEN> mass & dinner every friday 5 pm 
t 
• 

-------------~--~----­
12 the observer Friday, September 27, 1974 
Sunday Masses

Business exchange club m.eets 

by John Kenward Staff Reporter 

Seventeen members attended AIESEC's first general meeting Wednesday night in room 120 of the 
Hayes-Healy  Center.  AIESEC  
stands  for  the  International  
Association  of  Students  in  

Economy and Commerce, tran­slated from French. 
An organization of Notre Dame students tied to the national organization in New York, 


DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. '74 Gen'l Fearures Corp. 
51 Setting the tempo28 ''Strike-!" 

ACROSS  as an actress  23 Records illegally  
1 National sport9 Time of year 15 Like as sports­ 47 Fleming and namesakes 48 Little bear  24 Unusual 26 Roofing workers 27 P.~in checks  

man 

16 Colorful bird of 17 Most extensive 53 Trophy18 Small stone 56 Titania's spouse19 Norse goddess of 58 Drinking vessels 
healing 61 Northern sea 20 Baseball name 62 Charges22 "-Kapital" 63 Indian warriors 23 Model's attitude 64 Bee hive's rela­25 God of love tive 27 Walk or run with DOWN 
long steps30 Boundary of a mountainous 
region 34 "Hot corner" 35 Ruby and bu1·­
gundy36 Years, in Spain 37 -Major
38 Indian coin 39 Reckonings: 
Colloq.40 Sugar source 41 Ancient Hebrew 
lyre42 Ms. Abzug 43 Peacefulness 
45 "Oklahoma" role home plate 59 Chart 46 Alone on stasre. 21 Offer 60 Team's goal 

THE WINERY 
2426 LINCOLN WAY WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE ~ 
All the Finest European Oleeses 
Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods Oriental Cooking Ingredients 10% Cheese & Fancy Food Discount to Faculty & Students French Bread & Croissants New York Cheese cake Greek Olives Teas 


1 
• • I I 
f • '. f 
"I I I I, I 
1 George Herman 2 Town near 
Teramo, Italy 3 Famous "Toots" 
4 Old musical note 47 Within: Prefix 5 Twin or day 48 Actor Lee J. 6 Military 49 "Deutschlari 
command -alles" 7 HosierY fabric 50 A king of Sodom 8 Naval craft 52 What "vidi" 9 Sleepy means 
10 Heretofore 53 Composer John 11 Trouble 54 Vases 12 Merchandised 55 Plague13 Olive genus 57 Red or Yellow 14 Screens back of Abbr. 
AIESEC coordinates the exchange 
of foreign and American students interested in serving an internship in business abroad. 
Linda Vandervort, Midwest Manager of the national organization, gave a talk about AIESEC from the national viewpoint. Brought up at the meeting was a report by Jim Quinn, Director of Finances, in­forming the group of future financial projects which includes hot dag stand at home football 
29 i'art .of a step30 !hdian rebel of 18&.'1 31 Wholly
32 Splendid 33 Composition35 Chief Persian 
mythical hero 38 Guards on upper decks 
42 Sweet roll 44 What "nary" means 
45 Basketball play­ers 
Main Church 

games. 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Rev. Robert Griffin, CSC 

Plans for a luncheon with fifteen 9:30 a.m. Sun. Rev. "fom Gariepy, CSC South Bend businessmen on 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Rev. James T. Burtchaell

Monday, Sept. 30th, were also 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Rev. Blll Toohey

discussed. 
Tom Webber, chairman of Notre Dame AIESEC described. the objectives his group will try to 
~***********+***********************
strive for, both immediate and 
*

future. "We are planning a ~ moderate growth with success­minded and enthusiastic people ~ who are interested in making business their career," he said. 
t 
Webber commented, "As it 

t ~ 
stands now we would like three or 
~ 

four more students to join us". Webber remarked fhat for business majors and those with 
~ 

just an interest in business 
~ 

AIESEC is actually a dynami~ learning process. : 
"We try to supplement the learning on paper with real ex­~ periences with commerce in South 
i

Bend and abroad. Going to Europe as an exchange student is not a ~ 
~ 

requirement for being in the organization, however, even ~ though the opportunity is there," added Webber. 
When asked about AIESEC's main goal for the individual, Webber responded, "We want to develop their concepts of economics and commerce by exposing them to local and European businesses." 
"AIESEC helps the person see himself working under the pressure and active pace that exists in the world of business." 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A " 0 NIs T A R I''~· '" 
ROPE +IDE ADAGE l I E R A NOS 0 T 0 B E D 
, .... 

t •• '"mS A M I T E S.l I N T 
T WIE S T E R N B R R• D Y E ~T E D E U M l A K M E ~t~. A S P I IF
•.rN S f R I C •o T T
A T E SIR I G H T S ­S N I P.P U E R I l E 
~·UNASJIII~RETES 
01 sc R ET 10 N I" 0 OT
ALIA'S HAHA fcii~
JibA..~~IE IR y E s
N 0 s 
• 
P and M Dirt dub says  :!**  
"Have a festive  ~ **  
game Irish/  ~ *  
VVE WILL! II  :  
* 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111  *  

•••¥••••+••·················••* 
TONIGHT! 
Doors Open 7:00 
It was the Fall of '54 HELD atime when laughing was easy. OVER 
And laugh they did, until they crossed the... 
The nev.Est look... 
THE VVESTERN 
LOOK 
We have these brand new shirts in good selection... it's a new look that's destined to go far this year. Mix them or match them for the look you want. 
rrom 
$11 
... 0 N THE CAMpUS NOTRE DAME 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• •
•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
• 

' '.. 

m.o._tWVer l3 -­
Friday, September 27, 1974 
CCE dean named to artists advisory panel 
by Jean Murphy 
Staff Reporter 

Dr. Thomas Bergin, dean of the Center for Continuing Education, has been named Chairman of the Artists-in Schools Advisory Panel to the National Endowment for the Arts. The national committee is an independent agency of the Federal Government created to encourage and assist the nation's cultural resources. 
At a meeting held this week at the CCE, the 19-member advisory panel considered proposals sub­mitted by the states and recom­mended allocations of grants to primary and secondary schools throughout the nation totalling $3.2 million. Applications requesting a total of $4.2 million for 1975-76 school year projects had been received. 

Bergin stated, "Membership on the panel represents a first rate opportunity to assist in a tremendously important curriculum area elementary and high school-the arts, an area that has been neglected and aban­
doned." 
''The Artists-in-Schools Program receives requests for began in 1969 and has become one of the Arts Endowment's most
Shuttle bus schedule 
successful programs. 
"We have 1275 artists in residence employed in schools. Programs are offered in crafts 
QUICKIE A-SOUTH LOOP-8:30 TO 1:30 
dance, film music, poetry, theate; and visual arts. The artists simply Main Circle at ND 8:30 9:30 10:30 11:30 12:30 
go to a school system and work Library on NO Ave 8:32 9:32 10:32 11:32 12:32 
with the children, holding Louies at ND-SB 8:33 9:33 10:33 11:33 12:33 
~orksh?PS in their specialty and Rocco's on SB Ave 8:35 9:35 10:35 11:35 12:35 
dtscussmg aspects of their art with LaSalle & Michigan 8:38 9:38 10:38 11:38 12:38 the students," Bergin said. 
''The program provides em­ployment for talented young ar­tists and provides a new dimension on where and how artists can give," commented Bergin. 
"At first, schools were slow to respond. They thought the program created competition with the teachers, "Bergin admitted. However, the increased demands for funds indicate that the school systems recognize the benefits to the school children and host communities where the Artist-in­Schools Program is in progress. 
In accepting chairmanship of the Arts-in-Schools Panel, Bergin said he felt a "genuine sense of great challenge, a real break through primarily because I feel th~ program represents the on great track, the one great creative option and structure through which the arts might take some giant steps and move as we have never been able to move before." 

money to support visiting artists and art programs in schools. The National Endowment for the Arts acts upon the Advisory Panel's proposals and matches, dollar for dollar, the amount of money put up by the schools,' he observed. 
"This year's budget had to cut by almost 25 per cent". said Bergin "And it was necessary to cut judiciously in order that schools get the most from the moneyallocated." 
The Artists-in-Schools Program 
Main & Washington 8:41 9:41 10:41 11 :41 12:41 Main & Wayne 8:42 9:42 10:42 11:42 12:42 
THIS WEEKEND 

Main & Indiana 
8:46 9:46 10:46 11:46 12:46 Scottsdale Mall 1 
8:54 9:54 10:54 11:54 12:54 Schottsdale Mall 2 8:56 9:56 10:56 11:56 12:56 
THE VILLAGE INN 

Town & Country 9:12 1Q: 12 11:12 12:12 1:12 Edison & Ironwood 11:19 12:19 1:19 
has
9:19 10:19 

Library on NO Ave 9:25 10:25 11:25 12:25 1:25 Main Circle at NO 9:30 10:30 11:30 12:30 1:30 
GiRlS MANIO\J'S MUSIC 
BEER WINE & FOOD 

QUICKIE B-SOUTH LOOP-9:00 TO 2:00 
Main Circle At NO 
10:00 Library on NO Ave 
9:00 11:00 12:00 1:00 
FRIDAY, SATURDAY, & SUNDAYS
9:02 10:02 11:02 12:02 1:02Edison & Ironwood 9:09 10:09 11:09 12:09 1:09 

U.S. 3 1 , north of H o J o 's
Town & Country 9:16 10:16 11:16 12:16 1:16Scottsdale Mall 2 9:32 10:32 11:32 12:32 1:32Scottsdale Mall1 9:35 10:35 11:35 12:35 1:35Michigan & Indiana 9:42 10:42 
THE ROMA

11:42 12:42 1:42Michigan & Wayne 10:469:46 11:46 12:46 1:46Michigan & Washington 10:479:47 11:47 12':47 1:47 
PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD
Michigan & LaSalle 10:499:49 11:49 12:49 1:49Rocco's on SB Ave 
Your Host Frank Anastasio
9:52 10:52 11:52 12:52 1:52Louie's at SB-ND 9:53 10:53 

I A p I z z A y0 u c A N NiO T R E F us E 
I

11:53 12:53 1:53Library on NO Ave 9:55 10:55 11:55 12:55 1:55Main Circle at ND 10:00 11:00 
LIVE BAN D S 0 N WEEK EN D S Call 234-3258.For Delivery 
12:00 1:00 2:00 
QUICKIE C-NORTH LOOP-8:30 TO 1 :SO 
219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown 

Main Circle at NO SMC · ND Crossing on "31" Light Before Boar's Head Light at Denny's & Village Inn Jay's Lounge on "31" Shula's on "31" Kubiak's on "31" Light at Denny's & Village Inn Light After Boar's Head SMC -NO Crossing on "31" Main Circle at NO 
Notre 1hme seni gets $115,000 in suit againstSM; 
by Don Reimer Staff Reporter 

Mary Ellen Darin, a Notre Dame senior, was awarded $115,000 last week as settlement in a suit against St. Mary's College. The twelve member jury handed down its decision Wednesday, Sept. 18 at 
10 p.m., granting the student compensation for an accident which occurred April 23, 1972. 
The accident took place while Darin was melting wax for an art project in the laundry room of a SMC hall. A hotplate which she was using exploded, causing her to receive burns. 
Darin, when contacted about the case replied that she had no comment concerning eith the suit or the accident. 
R. Kent Rowe, of the Hartford Insurance Company, represented St. Mary's in the court proceedings. College officials declined comment on the case. 
8:30 9:10 10:30

9:50 11:10 11:50 
12:30 1:108:35 9:15 10:35

9:55 11:15 11:55 
12:35 1:158:38 9:18 9:58 10:38 11:18 11:58 12:38 1:188:40 9:20 10:00 10:40 11:20 12:00 12:40 1:20208:45 9:25 10:05 10:45 11:25 12:05 12:45 1:258:50 9:30 10:10 10:50 11:30 12:10 12:50 1:308:55 9:35 10:15 10:55 11:35 12:15 12:55 1:359:00 9:40 10:20 11:00 11:40 12:20 1:00 1:409:02 9:42 10:22 11:02 11:42 12:22 1:02 1:429:05 9:45 10:25 11:05 11:45 12:25 1:OS 1:459:10 9:50 10:30 11:10 11 :SO 12:30 1:10 1:SO 

They searched the world•..unti/ they found each other. 
AParamoont Release Gregory Peck Presents 
ACharles Jarrott Film 
. based oolhe !XU< "DOVE" ~ 
~~John Barry Robin Lee Graham with Derek Gill PeterSeagleAdam Kennedy G~Peck Cha~esJarrott 
!.'!.~~..~...~:!!.: Panavisioo"Technicolor" AParamount Release /·ft•j
' I\\< :

NOW PLAYING ··-·-·-·· 
ELKHART GOSHEN LAP~T 
STA1E GaiHEN LAPOm' MSHAWAKA TOWN AND COUNTRY 
At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
.­
[ 
Friday r September 27 I 1974

14 
the observer 

'Cabaret' set in Michigan for homecoming 
by Andy Prascbak Union Social Commission. Tickets entitled "Cabaret," will go on sale for the Lightfoot concert will event,' said Guiltinan. If this Starr Reporter are available for the Rice football today at 1:30 p.m. at the Student receive a $2 discount on their event is successful, it will be the 
"Tickets for all homecoming­game, Gordon Lightfoot conc~rt Union ticket office. Cost of the purchase of a party ticket. "We first of many off-campus events oriented activities will be on sale and the annual "Homecommg ticket is $6 per couple. can only keep the offer open as involving theproperuse of alcohol as of today," said Richard Party". StuJents presenting two tickets long as our ·supply of discount as a social stfmulus, according to Guiltinan, charman of the Student Tickets for this year's party, tickets last," said Guiltinan. As of Guiltinan. 
now, there are only 150 tickets The "come as you are" eventavailable at the reduced price.
New ND-SMC Women's CoWlcil formed will feature two bands, "Wind" 
"Cabaret" will be held on and one not yet secured. In Saturday, October 12, from 8:30 to I keeping with· the "Cabaret" 
a.m. at the Silver Beach Ballroom. theme, refreshments will include The party site is in St. Joseph, beer, wine, bread, cheese, and
geared to vuomen \\JOrking together 
Hy Cathy Husto assistant to the provost, explained Mary's women workin_l!: together to Michigan, 30 miles north of fruit. "We expect the tickets forStarr Reporter get done what needs to be done,"
Tuesday at the second meetin~ of campus. the party to sell at a quick rate," the Women's Council. The ballroom is situated in an old added Guiltinan.
Sr. Jones continued. "we are in the process of forming a Sr. Jones and Dr. Mary Alice amusement park on the shores of"The S.M.C. Women's Council is 
council between Notre Dame and Cannon, S.M.C. Vice-President of Lake Michigan. "The building will Also on sale today will be tickets geared to Notre Dame and Saint
St. Mary's Sr. John Miriam Jones, Student Affairs, have been supply the perfect atmosphere for for the Rice game on October 12. 
working on the formation of the 
our theme, " .. Cabaret", These tickets will also stay on sale 
Women's Council for a year; 
remarked the Social Com­as long as the supply lasts. 
however. the Council was not
The Irish Eye 

missioner. " .. They haven't been moving as 
established until last spring. The 
Busses will be provided, free of fast as we thought they would,"
Council's three major areas of charge, for anyone wishing to said Guiltinan. The party and
(continued from page 16) 

interest are the development of a 
make use of them. Guiltinan football tickets can be bought in 
more interested in the 'oohs' and 'ahs' a 68-Q win would draw. Hopefully lecture series on human sexuality, one package for $23.
recommended that anyone driving Barry Switzer won't fall asleep in the first quarter. Oklahoma by 2,000. career planning, and sports and should make an attempt to form
Northwt>stern at Nt>braska: If Mitch Anderson is smart he'll fake an social activities. car pools. 'fhe Student Union will Tickets for the concert, slated injury for at least another week. Again, somebody should take pity on "We envision a series of provide maps for anyone desiring for Friday, October II, may be poor John Pont. Nebraska by 3,000. seminars on human sexuality operi them. purchased at the Student Union 
Southern Cal at Pittsburgh: This should be the most interesting game to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's "I'd like to stress the fact that ticket office. "These tickets have of the afternoon and a tough pick. The Trojans have had a week off to lick students," Sr. Jones said. everyone should be extremely been selling rapidly as we their wounds and prepare for Pitt. The Panthers are fast and mean, Dr. Cannon emphasized the careful driving to and from the expected concluded Guiltinan. especially that cool yrung 'Cat Tony Dorsett. The game is in Pittsburgh cultural, psychological and 
~1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~
and that's good for something but from here it's Southern Cal by three. theological aspects of human SMlJ at Ohio State: The Buckeyes continue their rough tough schedule sexuality should be discusses in 
with some preachers from down South. Woody Hayescould have had addition to the physical aspe.!ts. = = Notre Dame as an eleventh game this year, but he probably figured SMU The question was raised whether to would be the team to beat in '74. OSU by plenty. limit the seminars to women and to 
Arizona State at Missouri: Missouri is surprisingly mediocre this year open them to men later on in the while the Sun Devils are typically explosive. Frank Kush is out to retain series. Sr. Jones said that a 
= WELCOIV.IE =
I I
STUDENTS

czardom in the far Southwest and the Tigers will be loyal Midwest mixture of all-male and all-female subjects. discussion groups could be worked ~ ~ Washington State at llinois: The Illini have come into their own while out if needed. State is lost in the wilderness of the Great Northwest. Illinois by 10. Tentative topics for the seminars 
Tennessee at Auburn: Tennessee could Volunteer themselves right out are abortion, birth control, the of the SEC contention with another lackluster performance. Head Coach psychology of men, thepsychologyof Bill Battle won't allow that however-and Auburn hasn't had anything women, male physiOlogy and since Pat Sullivan left. Tennessee by 13. female physiology. 
Rhode Island at Hrown: Great things are happening at Brown (yawn) The Council is also trying to get 
I FOOTB:~ FANS I
and that means winning more than oge football game or loosin11: less Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 
than seven. This intrastate battle whould gather no attention but look for women together through the the Brown Bears. medium of sports. The possibility .. Upset of the week: Texas Tech over Texas: The Red Raiders of Tech of organized football tournaments have yet to show what they can do. The Longhorns are in the same corral. between the campuses was The game will be played at Jones Stadium in Lubbock and before a home discussed. Two students, one from crowd. After the game Darrel Royal may see Red, Raiders that is. Saint Mary's and one from Notre Dame, will go to the Notre Dame 
i ~ ~h~~ ';a~:~~ay I § 
Last week: 9of 15 (although did include upset of the week) 60 per cent. interhall office to work out the 
Season: 20 of 30, 67 per cent. formation of the football teams. 

~ = and Sunday! ~ =
Irish host Purdue 
i~t C!tnlnnial

(continued from page 16) 
§ §pounds. Three seniors, Alex DiMarzio. f<'red Cooper, Jim Wood 
Janrakt 1J.inuBt 
=====­

we are featuring our ~-=====­and junior Tom Andres anchor the 
delicious combination of 

four secondary positions while sophomores Bob Mannella and Joe Sullivan are the Boilers' top two 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
~ BAR-B-Q RIBS and ~ 
linebackers. 
:.;::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
The Irish defense remains intact 
:::: 35 Varieties of Pancakes :::: 
and unchanged and poised on 
i:i:chicken -Steak -Sandwiches :~:~: 
FRIED CHICKEN

facing a Purdue attack which 
~~~~Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :~1 
with French Fries and Cole Slaw

features both the run and the pass. "Purdue will do a lot of things 
:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
with the football," remarked Ara 
Your Host

"They'll run out of the slot-1 and U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North 
SERVED ALL DAY SAT. & SUN. they'll pass. We have to be alert (Across from Hoi iday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50 
for ·~·~RI~~~~~~i;ii;i;l;;i;~i;;;i;i;;;i;;;;;;;i;;i;;i;;iiiiiiiii~ 
A-LL YOU CAN EAT 

; $2.95 ; 
I==== i====
OPEN 7 A.M. DAILy 
Until Midnight Sunday thru Thursday 

! 2:.:o:.:.~:; ! 
~ Full Menu Served ~ 
~=~ 1~~~d ­
=­
Private Party Facllltlea Available 



The Opening Statement 
(continued from page 16) 

cannot afford to take lightly. The coaching staff has spent the week impressing on the players the fact that, despite Purdue's record, they are a strong team. Notre Dame must prepare for a traditional ri':al, forever hungry for Irish blood. The gentlemen from Lafayette have l~ttle to lose and great deal to gain in this contest. More than once the BOilermakers 
have faced The gentlemen from Lafayette have litt~e to lose and a great 
deal to gain in this contest. More than once the Boilermakers have faced 
Notre Dame as underdogs and have emerged the "Spoilermakers." This 
year they bring with them a big, strong defense that promise~ to test the 
Irish offense. They have one of the world's fastest pass receivers and a 
new coach who would like nothing better than to beat his former boss. 
N.D.'s veterans remember last year's game with _Purdue: The Boilermakers hit hard even in defeat, and they promise to hit even harder this year. Nothfng but a total effort on the part of ~e Ir_ish will prevent the Boilers from accomplishing the upset they have m mmd. As Coach Parseighian stated, the Irish are a good team. But ~e expects improvement this week from his club. He knows that on any giVen day, a good team can suffer defeat at the hands of an average team if there is a lack of mental preparation. He also knows that if Notre Dame enters. the arena Saturday with the same attitude they carried into Dyche Stadmm last week, they could be in for a long afternoon. . . 
The Fighting Irish will appear this Saturday a more enthus~asb~, consistent football team. Improvement will mark the home opener, as it will each ensuing game. Preparations have been made ~o knock ~e steam out of the Boilermakers in such a manner as to reaffirm the Insh 
When Pete Demmerle isn't catching Clements' passes, Wayne Bullock is. Here he hauls in a swing
claim to the top spot. After all, who can enjoy a long afternoon in Notre 
pass against Northwestern 


FOR SALE '68 Ford Mustang V-6 Good condition. 1413 69 VW -cond. Best offer. Call after 8 pm 283-3639 Sherwood 8900 A FM receiver 232­8854 1970 Chevy stationwagon. milage, good condition, good gas 5:30pm Brand new tennis rackets-Wilson, Head -all kinds. Big Call anytime John -1646 For Sale: Honeywell Pentax Spot Matic Takumar. 1:255 mm lens 287-D076. Ray For Sale; Upright Piano ­it works. Call 272-9990 after 5 pm WANTED Desperately need 2-4 Purdue tix. will Pay. Call 7471 Wanted: 2 tickets to Mich. State game -Desperate! CALL 8143 Need 2 or 4 GA tix for Purdue. Will PAY. Call 7471 Need 2 GA Pitt tickets Sue 6771 Need 2 GA Purdue tickets. Please call 6956 or 1254 Need ride to Cleveland weekend. Call Mary 1250 Need 2 GA or Student Purdue. Call 4834 State tix. Call Jerry 1636 2 Purdue GA tix. Will pay good price. Call 1902 Need GA Purdue Tix. Call Norm 277-0130 WANTED: Scoutmasters Call 283-7332 WANTED 2 -Miami call Mark 3620 . ,,  

3 speed. Wanted-May Fair Rest Waiters 5­
Best offer. Call 10-11 pm part time or full time. Must be 21. $1.25 plus tips call 255­5517 

AM-FM stereo, exellent ­Wanted at any cost: 2 adjacent GA tix for Purdue-7812 Pat 
Wanted 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Call 8475 or 8472 

low Need 4 Michigan St. tickets. Call on 3683 $995. 272-8246 weekdays after 
Need 4 GA tickets for Purdue will pay $ call 288-6195 
discounts. Desperately need GA tix for any home game. Don 1213 
Need six Miami tickets. Pay top dollar. 272-9622 
Need 2 Elvis Tix -Good money 272­$50. Yes, 9622 
Desperately NEEDED 2 Presley concert tickets. Willing to pay Ph. 259-0408 after 5 pm 
URGENTLY NEED 6 PURDUE TICKETS CALL TOM 288-7637 
WANTED: From 1 to 10 tickets to the Purdue game. Call Joe at 289­3751 
NEEDED DESPERATELY 1 GA TICKET TO RICEGAMETOM 8398 
Will pay! Need 2 Purdue tix -call Brady 272­4156 or Norm 277-0130 
Desperate; need ride to Mich State game will share expenses. Call Oct. 4 4238 
Need 1 ticket for Purdue Game. tix for 277-0021 
Desperately need 1 GA ticket for Rice and 4 for Pitt. Call Beth-5144

Need desperately: three Michigan Wanted: two (2) GA tickets for Miami 289-4303 
Desperately need two GA tix for Army. Call Rahj 1612 
Need 1 student tix for Purdue -call Local Trace 234-1889 

Boy Scout troop north of campus is 
in need of a volunteer scoutmaster. 
Need 1 ticket (student or GA) to Purdue game. Please call Brenda 4260 or Debbie 6746 
Need Ride to Tulsa Oct. break. Expenses shared. Joe -283-1205 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Need 4 GA tix for Purdue. Call Bill 1746 
Need 1 ticket for Purdue. Call 3140 
Need 2-4 GA Rice tickets. Dave 6818 
Needed-driver for 3 year old in So. Bend one hour per day. $20 per week. Call collect Sat. mornings before 10 am. 312-693-2281 
Help wanted-Construction Laborers-$2.50 hr. min. 8-5 Mon.­Sat. Partime or fulltime. Apply in person. Fat ·Wally's Electric Beer Joint. 2046 S. Bend Ave. 
Need desperately GA Pitt tickets Please call Monica 4489 
Need 2 GA tix for Purdue. Will pay $ call Jim 3303 
WANTED: 1 RICE TIX. call 284­4371 
Desperately need 1 Purdue tix. Call John 8883 
Wanted: 2 Army tix. Call 287-D076 
Need 6 GA tix for Purdue. will pay mucho $. Call Steve, 289-1376 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: a silver and turquoise bracelet. Has great sentimental value. Reward. Please call 4979. Thankz 
Lost $225 cash between Keenan ­Field House; Field House ­'0'Shag·; Field House -Ad­ministration Bldg. Large Reward. can 3368 
Lost 1 pr. of girl's silver wire rimmed glasses on Sept. 13, 1974 somewhere between Stepan and Breen-Phillips. Reward ph. 3097 
Lost H.S. ring in O'Shag piano room initialsA.J .F. Gold, Call 8624 
Lost hard black glass case with gold wire rimmed glasses inside. Reward. Call Brian at 287-3586 
Lost Keys in North dining hall Thurs. Sept. 19, NBC insignia on key chains. Reward; Call 1328 
4 Tix Pitt and-()r 
·

~:~~~~a~/~~~~~ i~th~ ~~ . . , . , , . , .., . , . ., , , . up ~l:~ .:~ ,y,r; •'" ".".",\\\\\'.\\'.',\'.\\~:.:;:.·..-:(;~;:•:::~/.·'.' ,:.' t. c'c'ti/.:~:~~~'~,,(,,:~~~\·,',\'.'.'.' .
,~'.l\l', 1•~1li'l~~/',.i,,~ 1•',.~;.i',i'i'·j,. t. 1/" ~·I:~, • •-II" I' 14 I~ ~''-"'.."....-.....,.\.,\..,to,.. .. ,'-,... "'~~ .. .,-~ r' • • ' '" ' ­
NOTICES 

TOM'S UNIVERSITY STAN­DARD AT IRONWOOD & STATE RD. 23 WILL GIVE YOU A FREE 
N.D. 
GLASS WITH A FILL-UP 

D. 
Makielski -your letter jacket 


was found Sat. on the So. Quad. Call Mark 1572 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
' 

Free puppies. One; 6 months others-3 months. Call 234-3730 
Euphoria records lowest price for all records. Including imp6rts and cut outs plus weekly specials. 234­6535 
TALISMAN AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES, DANCES, CONCERTS & PREGAME PERFORMANCES. CALL 272-9895 FOR IN­FORMATION. 
Money'? Morrissey loan fund can lend you up to $150; basement of Lafortune -Daily, 11:15 -12:15 
TICKETS FOR THE L YNYRD SKYNYRD-HYDRA CONCERT OCTOBER 1 AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET !OFFICE', 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
Now you can read the N.Y. Times daily and on Sun. Get your copy at Pandoras Books. We'll reserve one for you 
HOCKEY GAME: THE CAMPUS VIEW CRUNCHIES vs. THE FLANNER FROGS. WED OCT 2, ll:OOPM AT THE ACC CAMPUS VIEW AND STONERIDGE RESIDENTS WHO WANT TO PLAY BUT HAVEN'T SIGNED UP YET, CALL CLIFF AT 272-9895 
SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE; 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE FROM 12:15 -5:00 MWF AND 11:00-1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TT. 
Attention all mgt club members ­free picnic Fri. noon west of Hurley Bldg. -membershlp sign-
PERSONALS 
Lady in red, I love you too. Who are you? The Stopper 
Gail, Happy 21st BIRTHday to you! (am not your twin) 
Tracy has two nice tix for Purdue Peeking Pete 
Dear ying' Could Jim \()~Malley chug 9% shots and live to tell about it T.V. 
P .S. Bleep me to death 
A HAPPY 23rd ANNIVERSARY TO MARGE AND FRANK. GOD BLESS YOU 1BOTH TOM 
Welcome to duLac: Denise, Sam, Cindy Love, 135 
Ah Chris, you sultry bitch with fire in your eyes ­
Ben Dover, !I'll get you in the end! King Walter 
To the Roman Pontiff On this the unholy day of you birth, the world wonders at your treachery. But we graciously wish you a HAPPY BIRTHDAY. AntiChristal Coalition 
To the guy who retrieved the panties stuck on the ledge: Thank you for boosting our morale 
Happy nineteenth birthday Bean! Love, your three frosh. Remember the double T .P. (have a drink on us!) 
Help me celebrate my 21st bir· thday Call 4044­Gail Dear 
Hey ramblin Chris why dont you settle down. Loretto ain,t your kind of town. There ain,t no gold and there ~in't no medder like me. I'm 
the number one fan of the gal from Johnstown P. 
Eddie D. 
Prez, we are glad to see you back 
Ditta, ' 


16 'he observa. Friday, September 27, 1974 
------------~--~----~~-­

Ara after second, Irish after first 
Like Huarte to Snow, Hanratty to Seymour, and Theis mann to Gatewood before them, Tom Clements to Pete Demmerle too has become quite a combination. Tomorrow afternoon when the Irish host Purdue, Clements to Demmerle should be much in evidence. 
i~--------------------~-------------------~--,Follow the IRISH SUBSCRIBE NOW 1 
I The Observer $9 Semester_ $16 Yr._l I I I
1 Name I
P.O. Box Q I 
1I Address _..... I Notre Dame, In Sent By I
1
I • 46556 Address ~ \ in the Observer!! Renewal _ New_ J 
~-------------------------------------------' 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

When Ara Parseghian of Notre Dame and Alex Agase of Purdue match wits and wide receivers in Notre Dame stadium tomorrow aftP.rnoon a couple of second-place positions will be at stake. 
l<'or Ara, a victory tomorrow will give him sole possession of second plat·e on the all time Irish list. l'arseghian. now in his 11th year at Notre Dame, upped his record to 87-15-4 with wins over Georgia Tech and Northwestern. A triumph over the Boilermakers would enable Ara to surpass the legendary Frank Leahy who was 87-ll-3 in his 11 years here. 
l<'or the Irish, second place is wher,~ they stand in the recent AP and t 'PI college football polls. And first is where they'd rather be. An impressive win over Purdue would certainly aid the cause. 
Unfortunately for all concerned, certain obstacles stand in the way, not the least of which are Agase and his Boilermakers. Throw in an Agase· brings to South Bend aOlympic sprinter who does the Boiler squad which is as yethundred in 9.1 and plays wide winless. Purdue lost to the tough
receiver, and a Purdue-Notre 
Badgers of Wisconsin 28-14 twoDame rivalry which means more weeks ago and tied Miami of Ohio than just a share of Hoosier history 7-7 last Saturday.

and the Irish have themselves a "Purdue has the personnel to becontest. 
Greg O>rgCDl~================================================================================================================ 
The Irish Eye 

====================i-============i-'S$»':.::::=:='>"::->':l'.=»">======="Jf.:'*-::"Jf.i-:=============== Fo o tl:x:tll piclcs 
The phrase 'on any given day' may be well-used and well-worn, but last 
Saturday it was also well-taken. 
No less than eight teams, including Nebraska, LSU, Penn State, 
Arkansas. Houston, UCLA, Stanford, and Maryland were the victims of 
major upsets. And it seems that the '74 college football season should 
provide fans with quite a few more of the&e 'given days.' 
'With all the upsets in college football these days, you can never tell what might happen,' said Ara Parseghian earlier this week. 
Parseghian's hoping the Irish will know what's happening this Saturday when they open their home season with Purdue, but elsewhere, it could be another one of those 'given days.' 
This weeks pick&: 
Purdut> at Notrt> Dame: In the first home game of the season the Irish are always out to impress the home fans. And Tom Clements will. Purdue has some fine people and some fast people (i.e. Larry Burton) but look for ND to take the steam out of the Boiler's drive. Irish by 24. 
Penn State at Iowa: The Nittany Lions were overly generous with Navy last week. Undoubtedly Joe Paterno has restored the roar to last week's whining kitty cats. This week the Lions' favorite food may be Hawkeye, Iowa style. 
Michigan State at UCLA: The Spartans have allowed but seven points in two games while the Uclans could manage only ten in an upset loss to Iowa last week. The Bruins have been hibernating for the past three weeks but a hometown L.A. crowd may wake them up. UCLA by one. 
Indiana at Kentucky: This could be the Hoosiers only chance of win­ning this year. But Lexington is Wildcat homeland and Hoosiers deal more easily with cows and pigs. Look for Kentucky. 
Navy at Michigan: The Middies got lucky in the Pennsylvania rain last weekend and the high seas helped them float by. The Wolverines have artificial turf and a quarterback named Denny Franklin. Besides they're a lot better than Navy. Michigan by 20. 
Vandt>rbilt at Alabama: Who's Bear Bryant kidding? Southern Mississippi one week and Vanderbilt the next. They probably have Wake Forest scheduled for 1975. Alabama by 1,000. 
Utah State at Oklahoma-. This one's even worse. The Sooners are only number three after a tough time with Baylor. Although known for their intellectual makeup and strict adherence to the rules, the Sooners are 
(continued on page 14) 
___,. J' 
a fine football team," commented Parseghian. "They just haven't gelled yet. But they always give us a tough time. Last year we were only leading 10-7 at halftime and wound up winning 20-7. It would be just like them to put things together against us. With all the upsets that have been going on in college football, anything can happen." 
"Purdue has a lot of potential," added Ara. They have the skills, the size and the speed, they just haven't put things together yet. 
"They're a dangerous football team and historically this contest has always been played with a lot of enthusiasm, hard hitting and contact. I've played against Alex Agase for a number of years and I know what he can do with youngsters emotionally. We'll have our hands full." 
When Parseghian talks about personnel, one, in particular comes to mind. That is split end Larry .Burton who accounted for the only Boilermaker points againstthe Irish last season on a 53 yard touch down bomb. Burton, along with quarterback Mike Terrizzi and tailback Scott Dierking, constitute the essence d the Boilermaker attack. Already, in two games, Burton is close to . surpassing his 1973 totals with 11 receptions for 248 yards. 
Terrizzi, a 6-3, 204 pound senior will again lead the Boilermaker attack with sophomore Dierking, and senior Pete Gross running out of the slot-I formation. Freshman Paul Berry will be in the slot at flanker and senior Barry Santini will be the light end. 
Agase's concern right now, however, is with the interior line. 
"We've got to control the line of scrimmage this week," appraised Agase. "Last Saturday our defense played well. Our offense is getting better. The skills are there and Miami has an outstanding defense. The problems are dif­ferent with Notre Dame. They are physically to win that football game." 

The Irish are prepared mentally as well, knowing Parseghian's lasting rivalry with Agase, but physically they'll still be missing running back Art Best. Best js · recovering from a broken jaw and is expected to be back in pads Monday but will definitely miss Saturday's clash with the Boilers. 
Joining quarterback Tom Clements in the starting backfield will be fullback Wayne Bullock, and halfbacks AI Samuel and Ron Goodman. The Irish are prepared with four other running backs, however. Russ Kornman, Tom Parise, Jim Weiler and Mark McLane are all expected to see action. 
To counter Purdue's Burton the Irish have the nation's sixth leading receiver in split end Pete Demmerle. Demmerle, in two games, has already caught 13 passes for 205 yards and one touch­down. Kevin Doherty and fresh­man Ken McAfee are behind DPmmerle. 

big defensively and we'll be seeing The Irish "0" has a bigger a different offensive concept than defensive line to cope with this we saw against Wisconsin and weekend. Purdue's Ken Novak, a Miami. Notre Dame uses many 6-7, 274 pound tackle anchors a variations off the Wing-T. front five that averages 230 
"One thing is certain. We're 
(continued on page 14)

going to be prepared mentally and 
Steve Quehl:=:=================================i-:::::=======================================================================~ 
q 

The Opening Statement 
Apparently Notre Dame did not win well enough against Northwestern last week. At least that's what the Associated Press sports writers would have everyone believe since replacing Notre Dame with Ohio State as their choice for the numQ.er one team in the nation. There are even those around here who would echo the scribes' misgivings with their anxious queries: "What was the matter with those guys, anyway'?" Of course, they only beat the projected spread by a point, gaining a mere 600 or so yards in total offense. Something must have been wrong. Under cir­cumstances other than last week's, however, there might have been. 
Heading the list of those concerned about last week's performance are the Notre Dame coaches. In spite of the result 
Heading the list of those concerned about last week's performance are the Notre Dame coaches. In spite of the rout administered to an inept Northwestern ball club, the coaches felt the performance of the Irish proved little more than adequate. Statistically, the accomplishments on the field left nothing to complain about. Technically, however, Notre Dame displayed inconsistencies that generally mark less experienced teams. Offensively, the ball club afforded itself little opportunity to relax until well into the second half. Fumbles, dropped passes, and spotty execution marred expectations of a quick dispatch of the Wildcats. From all indications, the Irish were not mentally prepared for Nor­thwestern. 
There is an unfortunate requirement of any team in a top-ranked position which demands that everyone be at a mental pinnacle each week. It is assumed that the members of such a team have reached a physical peak by the start of the season that will be maintained throughout the balance of the schedule. But a mental peak is difficult to reach and retain week after week in preparing for a variety of opponents. Notre Damehad seen films of Northwestern and undoubtedly knew what to expect. They went into the game perhaps a little too confident, alittle too relaxed mentally. But mental laxity leads to physical error. The truth of that statement emerged at Dyche Stadium last week where the Irish could very easily have spoiled a nice afternoon, under more difficult circumstances. It must be emphasized constantly that simply because a team is highly ranked, it will not assure victory against even the slightest opponent. Had Notre Dame faced a more formidable rival with the same attitude, so the coaches say, they could have encountered trouble. 
This week's game with Purdue will provide an obstacle that the Irish 
(continued on page 15) 










