



On ~ 'lhe Inside 
:· 
Hous(•ng shortage studie\1 · · · page 2 coup ·financial report ... page 3 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, January 30, 1974
Vol. VIII·: No. 68 

On constitutional grounds ... 
Nixon declines subpoena 
By HELEN THOMAS 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -The unprecedented subpoena of President Nixon to testify at the Ellsberg burglary trial will be "respectfully declined" on constitutional grounds, White House officials indicated Tues­day. 
The official White House reaction was to withhold response until it had received a copy of the California court 
Officer injured at game 
A South Bend Police officer was treated and released from St. Joseph's Hospital last night for a injury received during a fracas at the Notre Dame-Marquette basketball game. 
The officer, who suffered a deep bruise of his right side, was carried from the stands on a stretcher and 
taken  by  ambulance  to  the  
hospital.  
Officials  of  the  ACC  reported  

that the officer had walked up the steps on the east corner of the ACC basketball arena to prevent some order, handed down Tuesday by Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Gordon Ringer. 

But White House officials who declined to be identified indicat­ed the order would be "respectfully declined" on con­stitutional grounds -presuma­bly presidential privilege under the separation of powers concept. 
Before Ringer ruled favora­bly on a motion by former 
Marquette fans from going on to the playing area with a sign. 
The officials claimed that the officer was slammed into a railing by the students as they attempted o push past him. 
As of presstime, no arrests were made in connection with the in­cident. 
The fracas was one of at least three that occurred during the game which matched the 3rd and 5th ranked teams in the country. All three of the incidents invoved Marquette fans who were carrying signs near the playing area. 
p1·esidential adviser John D. Ehrlichman, one of those facing charges in the Ellsberg bur­glary proceedings, the White House · had confirmed that Nixon's lawyers refused Ehr­lichman's request for the President to testify voluntarily. 
Ringer's court order tantamount to a subpoena of the President -followed. In the 

past, the White House has flatly psychiatrist's by a opposed efforts to get the 
President into court as a witness. 
Ringer said he would sign a certificate ordering Nixon to testify Feb. 25 at a pre-trial hearing and also to appear at the scheduled April 15 trial of Ehrlichman, G. Gordon Liddy and David Young. All have been indicted in connection with the burglary of Ellsberg's 
office team of White House "plumbers" at the time Ellsberg was under investigation for allegedly steal­ing the Pentagon Papers on the Vietnam War. 
Ehrlichman is trying to prove he was acting as an official of 
the  federal  government,  and  he  
wants  Nixon  to  testify  in  his  
support.  

"This will be the first time in the of a state court" 

l 
l 
I 
1 

l7ivJ:ulcahy, 
by Jim Eder Staff Reporter 
Director of Housing, Fr. Mulcahy, announced last nig,ht during a question-answer session at the HPC r.weting that hall lottery results should be ready by Friday. 
A group of five administration officers were present: 
Mulcahy, Director of Admissions John T. Goldrick, Vice President of Students Fr. James F. Flanigan, Director of Off-Campus Residence Fr. James L. Shilts, and Assistant to the Provost Sr. John Miriam Jones. 
The details of the computerized lottery to be held this Thursday to determine which students will be forced off campus next year were explained by Fr. Mulcahy. Approximately 60 per cent of the students forced to leave will be seniors and 40 per cent juniors. No sophomores or incoming freshmen will have to leave. Ali juniors and seniors will be included in the lottery, so that adjustments for schoarship holders,· hall presidents and resident assistants will have to made later. 
"I hope to have the results ready to publish by Friday," Mulcahy asserted. No cut off points, however, will be announced until much later. "As of now. 883 students will have to more off campus," he explained. 
"However, we won't know until April how many of these will be forced off, because the number is affected by several factors, including how many students move voluntarily, how many present freshmen (who are not effected by the lottery) decide to move off, and how r.,any transfer and overseas students we have," stated Mulcahy. 
When questioned about his decision not to allow students to overcrowd their rooms next year in order to accomodate those people not wishing to move off campus, Mulcahy explained that "as a temporary soiution overcrowding worked all right, but as a per­Panent solution it is no good. It tends to hurt the quality of hall life. The increase noise factor alone is a r.1atter to consider, not to mention the problems of living close quarters. Overcrowding also requires increased hall staffs." 
Mulcahy also noted that he was currently facing the ironic problem of having empty beds in some rooms due to students ieaving between semesters, at the same time he was grandint room cost reductions to 
HPC discuss lottery 

HPC questions Fr. Mulcahy on the lottery adequacy of OC housing. (Staff photo by by Rahnerl.  and Bill  
students who are overcrowded in other places.  

Goldrick, questioned as to the cause of the great shortage of beds on campus, explained that there was an unexpected four per cent increase in the freshmen confirmation ration last year. He stated that all over the country applications to universities were decreasing, in part due to federal spending cutbacks in higher education assistance programs. The university admissions office took this national trend into account when sending out letters of acceptance, expecting that the confirmation ratio would also decline. 
"We were anticipating only a 54 per cent con­firmation ratio," explained Goldrick, "but 58 per cent of those we accepted confirmed their desire to attend Notre Dame. We defied the national trend." 
When questioned as to what his office p;lans to do this year to avoid a similar experience, Goldrick said that they would operate on the assumption that a r.,inimum of 58 per cent of those ose students accepted will confirm. 
Fr. Flanigan explained the reasoning behind the university's decision not to build another residence hall to alleviate the on-campus housing shortage. "We cannot be certain that all the beds in a new hall would always be filled. Having to stretch our funds the way it is, we simply cannot afford to take such a chance." 
Fianigan pointed out that such a problem of empty beds ~ad been encountered during the first few years after the construction of the Flanner and Grace towers. 
Flanigan was also asked if the process of selecting resident assistants could not be speeded up so that those applying would not face· the dilemma of having to find off-campus housing late in April if they were not accepted and had bad lottery numbers. Flanigan said that he unde1·stood the problem but that "with over 300 applicants it is simply a too difficult and time con­suming undertaking to finish before April." 
Fr. Shilts assured the presidents that although a large number of Notre Dame students will have to live off campus, "there is no shortage of off-campus housing. There are plenty of homes and apartments to handle our needs." 
HPC Chairman Pat McLaughlin, however, argued that "although there may be no shortage of housing qruantity-wise, there certainly is one quality-wise. I have personally spent the last two weeks looking for housing, and on the whole what I found was terrible. Landlords are charging ridiculously high prices for shacks." 
McLaughlin charged that the university has a responsibility to "help students find decent housing by putting pressure upon those landlords who are taking advantage of Notre Dame students." 
Shilts answered that the university is helpless in acting against unfair landlords, because "property owners have always been the most protected by Ar.1erican law. It is the students' responsbility not to be taken advantage of when signing leases. Landlords will continue to give students bad deals as long as it is believed that they are desparate enough to accept them. The students must realize that there is no shortage forcing them to act at once when looking for housing." 
In other business before the HPC, executive coor­dinator Wally Gasior announced that there will be a r.1eeting at 7:30 p.m. Thursday at the Dillon Hall chapel for anyone interested in working for An Tostal. 
Next Tuesday's HPC meeting will be held at 6:15 
p.m. in the Fiesta Lounge of the LaFortune Student Center, which will serve as the new site for all future r.1eetings. 
t 
-i

Wednesday, January 30, 1974
1. the observer \ 
t 


warld briefs 
• 
WASHINGTON <UPn-Comptroller General Elmer 
B. Staate--in a letter to Rep. John Moss, D-Calif., that was released Tuesday said that President Nixon lacks legal power to provide former Vice President Spiro T. Agnew with secret service protection. He wrote: "There is no justification for such continued taxpayer expense and this is only arbitrary action on behalf of a convicted felon." 
CINCINNATI <UPI-A special hearing was ordered Tuesday by a federal appeals court which could lead to a new trial for James Earl Ray, convicted killer of Martin Luther King, Jr. The step was taken because Ray's .lawyer had a financial interest in a book about the case. The hearing will decide the worth of Ray's claims that he was coerced into pleading guilty March 10; 1969. 
PHNOM PENH <UPI)-Casualties rose Tuesday on both sides as heavy fighting for control of Phnom P'enh raged four to six miles southwest of the city. F'ield reports claimed that Communist-led guerrillas had assembled almost a thousand troops for a fresh attack from the north. Stiff battles also were reported in villages near the capital. 

_. campu• btday ... ~'i_ 
,, 
{ 

11:30 a.m.--film, instructional film, ace auditoriL1m 
• 

3:00 p.m.--clinic, handball clinic and exhibition, ; take forest college, auxiliary gym, ace ·• 
.. 

4:30 p.m.--lecture, "fatty acid synthetase from yea~!t" by dr. feodor lynen, room 123, nieuwland science "t~ll 
7:00 p.m.--meeting, nd flying club, yearbook phott'15 will be taken, room 119 o'shag 
7:30 p.m.--clinic, taxes, dr. ken milani, room 105, law school 
Band 10 p.m.--film, "oedipus the king," sponsored by suac, also january 31 at 8 and 10 p.m., engineering aud. 
Housingshortage problemstudied 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 
What is the cause of the on­campus housing s.b,ortage an­nounced last week? The Observer attempted to piece together the factors at work in creating the shortage. 
First, the Department of Ad­missions and the University ad­missions policies have played only a nominal role in creating the present on-campus shortage. With the exception of last year, ad­missions to the University have been kept at a constant rate, about 1100 freshmen. Last year ad­missions were oversubscribed by about a hundred persons, due to an increase of about four percent in the number confirming their in­tention to come to the university per the number of those accepted. 
The admissions office has at­tempted to correct this problem by decreasing this year the number of transfer students admitted. The additional 100 students admitted last year has had some effect on on-campus housing, making that many fewer beds available. 
The increased demand folr on­campus housing by Notre Dame students has had a more sub­stantial effect on the present shortage. According to Ad­missions Director Goldrick, trends of student desirability for on­campus living are cyclical. This is one of the reasons the University refuses to build more campus housing. 
It seems, however, that the greatest contributing factor Ito the problem is the University housing 

Nineteenth century preceden~t cited as basis for indictment 
(continued from page 1) 
that the president of the United States has been called to testify in a trial, Ringer said. 
But he indicated he did have some legal basis for the decision to call Nixon -citing the early 19th Century treason trial of Aaron Burr when the Supreme Court ordered Presi­dent Thomas Jefferson to turn over a letter as evidence. 
Ringer did not mention it, but President James Monroe was summoned to testify before an 1818 court martial in Philadel­phia. He refused, but on the advice of Attorney General William Wert, he submitted written answers to questions sent to him. 
Ringer's decision came as an unexpected windfall to Ehrlich­man's attorneys. 
Discussing Nixon's refusal to testify voluntarily for his former chief domestic affairs adviser, they said before making their plea for subpoena they had little hope the judge would grant it. While the decision uses other legal terminology to describe the order, lawyers said it is tantamount to a subpoena. 
At the White House, Warren earlier confirmed Nixon's law­yers had rejected Ehrlichman's bid for a voluntary Nixon appearance and said he did not know how the White House might respond to any subpoena. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
·.' ... 
"Any discussion of that would Warren said James St. Clair, be sure speculation and if there . head of Nixon's team of 
are any further developments they will be dealt with by the White House counsel's office as they arise," Warren said. 
He confirmed a Los Angeles Times report that Ehrlichman's lawyers had asked Nixon to appear voluntarily for Ehrlich-man's side at the Feb. 25 pre­trial hearing -at which Ehr­lichman will try to have the charges quashed -in Calif or­nia. 
Watergate attorneys, told Ehr­lichman's attorney by telephone recently he "would recommend against voluntary appearance by the President." 
If he fails to get the charges dismissed, Ehrlichman --once described by Nixon as "one of the finest public servants I know" -faces trial on charges of burglary, conspiracy and perjury. 

Hesburgh named to bo~~rd 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, has been named to the board of directors of the National Offic for Social Responsibility (NOSR). A private agency, NOSR is dedicated to helping the private sector work with, and respond to the needs of -young people. NOSR 
serves as a clearinghouse for projects of community benefit involving youth and private groups. The office facillitates activities and programs which link the two groups to improve the responsiveness of social systems to young people. 
ND-SMC THEATRE announces 

TRYOUTS 
for 

THE BEGGAR'S OPERA by JOHN GAY 
SUN, FEB. 3 lpm MON, FEB. 4, 7:30pm 

Callbacks: Wed, Feb. 6, 
7:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC 
Materia I for singing and acting 
auditions available Speech & Drama 
Office Rm. 109 Moreau. 

. ' . , . Open jo all ND--SMC students. 
i. 
female occupancy the housing

policies concerning coeducation. 
department has adopted a policy of 

Since female undergraduates are 
reducing the population of the hall 

not permitted to live off-campus, it 
to that originally recommended by 

increases the percentage of male 
the architect, which eliminates all

students who must. Further, when 
forced triples and doubles.

a dorm is converted from male to 


IMPORTANT MEETING 
for all those who worked on An Tostal last year 
Thursday Night 


7:30 Dillon Chapel for information, call Wally 1582 

Athletic and 
Convocation Center






NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices: Tickets on sale: Bleachers •• _____ ••• $3.50 NOTRE DAME, A. C. C. Mon. -Sot 9 to 5 Lower Arena ••• _____ $4.50 Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall Main Fllor •• ___ •__ ••$5.50 Sl Joseph Bank -and branches 
Loge -.--•••• -.---_$5.50 first Bank -Main office only Platform •••••••• __ •$5.50 Elkhart Truth 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. J. Geils·Band. Send to J. Geils Band Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 

~-~---~.~---------------------------·-----------.., 
Wednesday, .lanuary 30, 1974 
the observer 

COUP studies financial interests 
by Gary Allietta Staff Reporter 
This is the fourth in a series of 
articles by The Observer 
examining in depth each area 
considered by the Committee on 
University Priorities. 
Today's article deals with the 
financial interests of the 
University and the flow of funds to 
different college departments. 
Finance is the backbone of Notre Dame. At least that is what several people in the University contend, including the members of the priority committee. 
According to Howie Bathon, who was the only undergraduate member of COUP, the main reason for a priority investigation was the thghtness of funds. He also added that "there was no task force for University financing because finance was considered by the other four task forces." 
Sources of Funds 
One of the main considerations of COUP was the University's endowment fund, which reportedly is valued at $72.6 million. Bro. Kiernan Ryan, assistant vice president for business affairs, explained that the "endowment is a permanent part of a university's resom·ces." The principle, in this case $72.6 million, stays intact and is invested by the Board of Trustees. Only the interest, which Bro. Kiernan estimated at 5 per cent or about $3.6 million is spent each year. 
The Notre Dame portfolio, or collection of investments, includes mainly stocks and bonds, with other Iesse r holdings. Bro. 


Lobund Laboratory scientists 
•


treat leukemia 1n 
Scientists from Notre Dame's 
Lobund Laboratory have sue­
cessfully treated leukemia in mice. 
The experimental procedure, which may lead to a method for treating the disease in people, consists of a very large dose of radiation, transplantation of bone r.1a1Tow genetically foreign to the animal, and isolation in a germfree environment. 
Dr. Morris Pollard, director of the Lobund Laboratory and chaiJ·man of the Department of Microbiology, described the research in an address yesterday at the Baylor University Medical School, Houston, Texas. 
In experiments he conducted with Dr. Robert Truitt, Lobund post doctoral research associate, the Notre Dame virologist reported that the procedure reversed leukemia in germfree r.1ice and prevented the disease in other germfree mice which nor­mally develop leukemia at eight months of age. After 15 months these mice show no sign of the disease, Pollard said. 
************************************ 
. * 
: Eniov an afternoon at : 

i* NICKlE'S *i 
* *
!Starting today: : * *
! Free pool, ~ 
* *
i Mon-Thurs 2-6 pma **********************************'* 
Kiernan explained that about 60 per cent of ND's endowment is tied up in stocks, whic_ yields a. fluc­tuating return fatrly conststent with inflationary movements. The other 40 per cent is invested in bonds, which return a constant amount yearly .. 
Tuition, however, is the main source of funds. This year, a ND education is worth $2615, a rise of $165 over last year and $800 over 1968. When room and board are considered at $1125, a year's stay in· South Bend runs to $3740, a 38 per cent increase over 1968's $2700. <For seniors, freshman tuition was $2100 and total fees were $3150.) 

Bathon was quick to point out that spiralling tuitions can not last r.mch longer. "There has to be a tuition cut-off somewhere. After a certain figure, people won't come here anymore," he said. 
Federal grants also bring in a sizable amount of money, but all of it is allocated for specific pur­poses. The University does benefit, however, when a grant pays for a professor's salary or some equipment that would otherwise come under University funds. 
Where the Money Goes 

Inflation has begun to affect every aspect of the economy and Notre Dame is no exception. As Bro. Kiernan pointed out, federal aid is being cut off all over the 
Similar success was reported in preventing the disease in non­germfree animals genetically prone to developing leukemia. For these mice a fourth step, decon­lamination with antibiotics, was added to the treatment. The decontamination experiments were conducted by Pollard, Dr. Morris Wagner, professor of r.1icrobiology, and Dr. Kunwar Srivastave, assistant faculty fellow in microbiology. 
Pollard said the procedure also may be effective in treating other forms of cancer. Employing the method, Lobund scientists have prevented Hodgkin's Disease (cancer of the lymph glands) from occurring in germfree mice which normally develop it at ten months of age. Currently, an experiment is being conducted to see if the procedure also could cure mice already suffering from the disease. 
The treatment method appears to be effective, but researchers don't yet know why. "I suspect that perhaps we've knocked out a susceptible cell by radiation, or, by innoculating the new bone country by the Nixon Ad­ministration. At Southern Illinois, 104 staff members, including 28 tenured professors, were released because of lack of funds. 

Bathon feels that here "we're lucky... there haven't been any drastic cutbacks and there won't be unless we have to." According to him, the reported 50.5 per cent increase in University salaries was due not only to expansion, but also to keep faculty pay competitive. 
"There is a 3 per cent built-in increase for 1974; inflation will eat that right up," Bathon said. 
Another area for increased funds is the admissions office. The COUP report stated that nationally, college enrollment is declining; however at ND it is still rising. To ensure that enrollment 1·emains adequate for the University, thus , maintaining tuition, the chief source of funds, r.10re funds are being allotted to admissions for recruiting. 
B1'o. Kiernan explained Notre Dame's budgeting system as a zero budgeting system. "We estimate our income for the coming year on the basis of tuition, endowment, and other incomes. Using this estimate as a guide, we budget expenses and distribute the money to the various depart­r.lents." 
Where the Money Doesn't Go 
Inflationary prices and declining icomes have forced Notre Dame to 
•



m1ce 
r;1a1Tow, we've introduced a new 1·egulatory mechanism. All of this has to be worked out. The im­portant thing from our uoint of view is if it works," Pollard said. 
In the future, Pollard and his associates intend to investigate the procedure's effect on other forms of cancer such as cancer of the breast and cancer of the prostrate gland. 

-I •
c


0 
CW) ::) WEEKEND
...I 
u 

«<) Conducted by four Maryknoll Missioners 
I •
• 

SIMULATION GAMES

c .:a 

DESIGNS AND FILMS
-I w ·-... 
WEEKEND SESSION TO SURFACE ISSSUES & 
u. u. 
PROBLEMS OF ASIA, AFRICA AND LATIN AMERICA 
0 .............. 
· (Sig~ up at Campus Ministry Office in Library; FEE--$5) 
remedial steps financially. Ac­Board," noted Bro. Kiernan, "who cording to Bathon, the computer r.1ake prudent investments." science, physical education, and · However, if ND is to remain a communication art majors had to smooth and financially sound phased out; a proposed nursing operation, steps have to be taken to department was turned down; a solve current expense problems possible medical school was and hold down future ones. That is dismissed as fantasy. one of the reasons COUP met. But, 
One of the hardest hit areas is as Bathon said, "committees are the graduate school. Federal okay to find things out, but the research grants went almost en­administration is in the best tirely to the grad school. The loss position to run things." of over $2 million in the last four On the recommendation of the years had to be absorbed mainly comr.1ittee, physical expansion is on the graduate level. The COUP being curtailed although physical recommendations that money once improvements are being im­going for "mortar and brick must plimented. New Curricula will be hereafter support the life of the carefully chosen and extraneous or r.1ind directly" severely hinders wasted programs phased out. But chances for new graduate housing. Post of all, a large scale effort will 
be made to seek financial support 

The Outlook from "friends, corporations, and 
foundations." 

Presently, Notre Dame 'is far For, after all, if finance is the from being a bankrupt institution backbone of universities, we would on the average of selling dorms to not want our endowment to be 
r.1ake money. "We nave many known as "The Hunchbak of Notre successful businessmen on the Dame." 

"A Ltong-Expected Party" 
Tolkien Costume Ball 
THURSDAY, JAN 31, 9-12 La Fortune Ballroom 
6~~9. singles $2.00 couples $3.75 
...tickets on sale 
MON, TUES, WED 
in the dining halls 

"Anyway, I mean to enjoy myself on Thursday" Bilbo Baqqins, p 49 

confessing to him . poor That this entire matter is a showing Sunday morning was 
Uncivilized Warriors 
Editor: 
Over the past few weeks I have read numerous letters re: the conduct of Notre Dame students at basketball games. They have left the impression that the ND student body is the most vulgar, base and uncouth group of college people in existence. 
After witnessing the Notre Dame-Marquette game I would like to contest the above ac­cusation. The demeanor of the Marquette fans was nothing short of being vulgar, base and uncouth. The ACC security guards were constantly needed tocontrol their unrestrained behavior. Not only was such conduct exhibited throughout the entire game by the fans but also by their head coach Al McGuire. 
If Observer readers continue to 
maintain the notion that Notre 
Dame students are the degenerate 
group they have been led to 
believe, I hope that they now in­
clude the Marquette student body 
alongside. 
Thomas A. Heck '74 

Ex-Editor's Note 
Editor: 
Once again the "Christian" community of Notre Dame has displayed the facistic tendencies tha bubbled to the surface during 
the Lewis Hall incident last year. To be sure the cast of characters this time were different. Instead of Fr. Riehle and Arthur Pears we Had John Macheca, who seems to have received his training for the position of Dean of Students in the White House and Notre Dame's very own Crown Prince of Darkness Rev. James T. Burt­chaell. And the result too was slightly different. The per­petrator, instead of being expelled, was merely suspended for a semester because of "certain aspects of the student's personal convictions that warranted lesser punishment" What these "personal convictions" were can only be guessed at, but a good choice seems to be that not even J. Edgar Macheca is hardnosed enough to press for the expulsion of a student who made the mistake of 
sickening, disgusting comment on the "justice that exists at Notre Dame is blantantly obvious. This student was suspended for something that has been done thousands of times at Du Lac. He was suspended because he was unlucky enough to get caught by a Provost who seems to be bucking for a promotion to Detective third grade in the ecclesiastical police force. He was suspended because he was under the mistaken im­pression that anything he told the Dean of Students was confidential­-an inpression that the Dean of Students, in his zeal to obtain a good conviction record, did nothing to correct. He was suspended because six hard-hearted people sat on the judicial board that decided his case instead of six compassionate, reasonable human beings. He was suspended because the student§ at Notre Dame have allowed themselves to be governed by a set of rules imposed on them by a committee of bankers, iawyers and businessmen who 
p·ose as the Board of Trustees of Notre Dame Inc. 
There is no justice in a judicial code that allows a clever prosecutor in the guise of a dean of students to trap unwarry students into making the entire case for him by confessing so he can turn right around and use it against the student in the hearing. There is no justice at a University that uses its power over its students to hound them into following a pre-set code of morality set up by persons whodon't even attend the University. 
But then again John Macchea, the Trustees and Notre Dame's Crown Prince have never con­fessed to being just. 
Sincerely, Glen Corso 

Editor's Note: Glen Cor~;o served a~; editor-in-chief for The Observer during 1970-1972. Presently he is attending Law School at Catholic University. 

Uninformed 

Dear Editor, 
I guess I must be considered a second-rate fan reacting to the letter you receives from the campus's five "NUMBER ONE FANS". I really resented the self­righteous stand the five girls took, but I sure can't knock 'em because they showed a lot of initiative al)d simply because they were there and I wasn't. 
simply that no one, (or almost no one), knew when the team was returning. Granted if I was a loyal, super spirited, number one fan I too would have called the TV station and the Phelps' house. But if everyone who felt badly for the team had done this, there would have been a real problem at the Phelps' residence! 
This points out a service that the Observer could easily provide, that is publishing the arrival times of the team after away games. It will undoubtedly help the spirit of the team, and it would save the student body the humiliation of being called bad losers. 
Once again I don't want to take anything away from the five "NUMBER ONE FANS".--I'd just iike to let the team know that the poor showing Sunday was due Ito an UNINFORMED student body, not an UNSPIRITED one. 
Bob Boyd 


No One's Business 
Dear Editor: 
Sadly Notre Dame's grossest impropriety this week was not anything that happened at the UCLAgame; it was, instead, Bob Kane's letter in Wednesday's 
· Observer notifying the public that the Governor of Indiana would not buy an ad in the Bengal Bout Program. 
It is not the public's business to know who decides not to give to thisorthatcharity. AmaninOtis Bowen's position is doubtlessly swamped with such requests and cannot be expected to honor one. Behavior such as Mr. Kane's betrays the trust placed in him for whatever position he holds. He has done injustice to an honorable man and brought shame on his com­munity. 
Tom Brown 

the observer 
Night Editor: Albert D'Antonio 
Assistant  Night  Editor:  Rick  
Blower  
Layout:  Molly  Martin,  Sue  
Augustus, Pat Small  
Copy Reader: Greg Aiello  

Day Editors: Jeanne Murphy, 
Terry Keeney Pictures: Jerome Phillips Compugraphic: Joe Abell Typists: Barb Haug, Tom Modglin, 
Howard Halle, John Flannigan Night Controller: Joe Abell 

Last Paint: 



An Anniversary 
j.napier 
One year later, aobrtions are quick, less pain full, and part of the options open to pregnant women. Who would have believed thirteen months ago that major newspapers would carry advertisements virtually alongisde used car adds for "Abortion Counselling" and "Abortions Performed until the Twenty-fourth Week of Pregnancy?" 
Now abortion is a firm reality and only the most quixotic anti­abortionists see the legal issue as anything other than a permanent legal fixture. Abortion laws have made abortion critics like lost shepherds searching for a dead flock in the halls of Congress. In the media, editorials acclaiming the benevolence of the new laws have replaced the anti abortion crusaders' assaults on the first com­mandment of feminism, the right to one's "own" body. Instead of restating the old debate, newspapers last week heralded the abortion anniversary with announcements declaring the vast majority of abortion patients have experienced no psychological readjustment problems following the operation. The abortion issue has entered a new era. 
One year tater, the abortion patient encounters altogether different 
problems, problems which increasingly resemble those of ordinary consumers. Like beef snd gasoline consumers, abortion patients have experienced local shortages in the service they seek. According to one Chicago counselor, the demand for second trimester abortion facilities have outstripped the supply in the Chicago area. This situation has forced some abortion patients to travel to other cities to receive help. 
The present laws on abortion are the result of a battle between two oppositely clashing visions of morality. Simplistically, one group views abortion as another sword flung at human dignity while their opponents hail the Supreme Court's decision as the finest guarantor of individual rights since the Bill of Rights. 
How will the Supreme Court's decision affect future society? How has it already affected society? The answer to these questions in­volves a dilemma as old as the common law. "Shall the law lead society's morality, or shall the society lead the law?" In the abortion issue, the high court based its decision onconsiderations of the for­teenth ammendment. In effect, the court said a six month fetus does not own the rights of a person ahd therefore "its" life may be ter­minated. 
This decisions had the effect of the law leading society's morality. In a national poll conducted shortly after the ruling, the number of pe1·sons approving fir tolerating abortions increased. For the first time, more people favored abortion than opposed it. 
Today the majority of major hospitals have accepted the abortion norm. A new standard now exists and those who disagree with it are in a iarge minority. As yet, most individuals respect another persons' l'ight to oppose abortion on moral grounds. Bur the question for the future is, "Will people continue to accept this anti-abortion stance as a sacred segment of an individual's moral conscience, or will a time come when an individual's r.10ral values on abortion will be labelled as odd, non-conforming, anti-zero population growth, un-American and hence undeserving of respect?" 
Much of the effect of the abortion ethic on society may be measured by future abortionists' respect for anti-abortion, moral and religious beliefs. Americans have long possessed a strong respect for others' morals. Hopefully future society will never become as eras as some newspaper advertisements to really think of a fetus' life in the same sense as a used automobile. But if that conviction does eventually envelop society, one will see a concomitant erosion of respect for other religious rights. At this juncture, people will realize we made a mistake. 
daanesbury r:~arry trudeau 
HIS CZARSHIP IS 700 BVSY 

WHf/l£'5 THE 
70 !?EC£1VE "rtJll AT THIS TIM&, 

If YOVU CZAR.?II/HY 
8VT HE HAS REVIcWGP THE" 

fOU.OW CAN'T .Z SP6AI< 
r~EflS' J?E"(}(JEST AN{) HAS 

ME, Mil.. WITH THG 
FOIJN/J IT MG/mlJR/01/S. 



Wednesday, January jiO, 1974 the observer 
sleeper's plot slumbers, 
So often after you've seen a Woody Allen movie, you walk out laughing; but with strange feelings. you just can't get an idea out of your head--that one day Woody Allen walked around with a notebook and filled it up with funny scenes that crossed his mind. Then, as your imagination continues, you see him sitting down with his notebook and you watch him write in a plot around his ideas. Then you see him put it on film and call it "Bananas", or "Everything You Ever Wanted To Know... " In this case, Allen filled another notebook and came up with his latest attempt, "Sleeper." 
"Sleeper" is the story of Miles Monroe <Allen), a contemporary man suffering from a peptic ulcer. When the doctors at his hospital fail to cure his affliction, they in­voluntarily freeze him (in Reynolds wrap). His body is discovered over 100 years later after an atomic war has decimated the United States. Two doctors who are fighting an Establishment lead by Our Leader, defrost Monroe to enlist him in the Un­derground. 
A series of zany events lead Monroe into a predictable Woody Allen relationship: the frustrated lover and the beautiful woman, as played by Diane Keaton, who also starred with Allen in"Play It Again Sam." Keaton plays a 21st Century artist-type who sides with the Establishment. But after Monroe's entrance mto her life, she becomes a member of the underground dedicated to fight our Leader. The plot--and plot is used lightly--is weak, but it really doesn't matter, for the continuous Allen humor makes up for 
but the humor is gr~~at 
a review by jerry lutkus 
the standard lack of plot. 
Allen is by all standards the premier comedian of our era. As Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin and the Marx Brothers arew considered the best of the past, so too will Allen be viewed as the standard-bearer of our generation's classic comedians. 
Many of the bits in the movie are tributes to the comedians who have come before Allen. When Miles Monroe impersonates a robot butler in his escape from the Establishment, it is a purely Chaplinesque routine. His shuffling walk and expressive face mirror the comedy of a great one who performed years before Allen. 
In another scene, Allen and Keaton im­personate doctors and must perform a "cloning" operation on the nose of Our Leader. Their dialogue and slapstick ex­changes are pure Marx Brothers. Yet Allen doesn't copy these comedians. He performs bits which are remininscent of their comedy, but his work bears the un­mistakeable mark of Woody Allen. He honors these comedians, remembers them and grows upon them. 
As with all Allen films, the movei suffers for its poor ending. It seems as if he has come to the end of his notebook, so naturally the movie should end there. But it is a fault 
that can be ignored in light of the comedic 
genius that Allen shows throughout the 

picture. If you want to laugh, see this movie. It's a 
This movie could very well be the comedy real beauty._ "Sleeper" starring Woodyof the year and that is a real shame in some Allen and Diane Keaton is at the River respects because it may be the only comedy Park Theater. 

oh, to be a sophomore 
now that the festival here 
His picture appeared on the cover of his most recent book of poems and I had studied the face a dozen times trying to pinpoint the personality behind it. The haun­ting photo, in which he looked utterly mad, and the beautiful verses, most of which I never understood, flashed through my r.1ind as I stood in front of the Monis Inn. His car drew up and as he stepped out, absolute awe gripped me like an icy hand. The r.1an was far more curious in person, than ever in photographs. 
I was to be Robert Duncan's servant, companion and guide for the next two and a half days of the Sophomore Literary Festival. Weeks of studying his poetry, reading the reviews it got and nervously anticipating his arrival did not really prepare me for the Pan I came to know. 
Conversation with Duncan drained r.1e. Attempts to keep up with his thoughts left me exhausted and sometimes dazed. Largely a self-educated man, he knew something about everything. And if his knowledge was not continually astounding me, his shrewd, quick witticisms were. 
At times I fancied I was walking across campus with Benjamin 
· Franklin, although in mannerisms he more resembled Jack Benny. Escorting him about was an ex­perience in itself. My peers stared often at the silver barrette that held his long, thinning hair in place. They stared even more when, for his poetry reading, he let 

81111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
! concert series: a musical I 
I_ . :_!
renaissance
§ § § § 
= = 
= =
= The Notre Dame Department of Music is in the process of creating a musical Renaissance = 5 on the Notre Dame Campus. In addition to the resurgence of growth in size, the department, § ----=~-chaired by Prof. William Cerny, sponsors the most extensive concert series of any school or ~---=-_
organization in the vicinity. Thirteen concerts were available first semester and over sixteen concerts will be offered during second semester. Most of the concerts are free, 
§-~== except for a few which have an admission of one dollar. !=-= 
It is evident that music is being made a viable artistic expression on the Notre Dame ==: campus this year-and the musical explosion has been felt by faculty, students, and the _=== 
community alike. A brief look at last semesters' concerts shows this. An almost full house : at Sacred Heart enjoyed the Indianapolis Brass Quintet; and later, Professor Seid treated : § the audience to a memorized recital of some of the most exciting and difficult organ music 5 
= in the repertoire. The chamber concerts at the library auditorium were attended well, and = ;= three of them had standing room only. ;= 
The Nott·e Dame Glee Club, directed by Dr. David Isele, presented its concert in Sacred§ Heart Church for the first time. The roar of applause from a capacity crowd necessitated an § §= unprecedented five encores. The newly reorganized University Chorus had fantastic §= . 
success for their first Christmas Concert. The staggering number in attendance even made ~ the procession difficult because the aisles were blocked with people. Next year Dr. Isele §§ plans two performances, afternoon and evening, to accommodate the crowds. § 
= 5 
= 
~ The Concert Series for second semester, under the direction of Father Maloney, includes _§ Notre Dame faculty and other national and international artists. The sixteen programs §= offer infinite variety--Glee Club, University Chorus, instrumental and vocal chamber ~­
recitals, organ recitals, and orchestra programs. Certain performances necessitate early ~ seating, but it would be worth while to arrive a little early for all concerts. § 
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmunmmmnmmnmmnnnmmmmnnmnnllllllllllnnmm~ 
the graying strands fall about his shoulders as if to emphasize the drama of the occassion. 
Duncan was, I think, a natural teacher. One of the first requests he.made of me was to show him the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery. I learned a lot about art that day. Over lunch he explained his theories on teaching the English language to ghetto children. On the shuttle to St. Mary's he discussed his dismay with the recent political poetry of his friend Denise Levertov. At the St. Mary's Coffee Shop he listened patiently to my views about racial tension in my home state of Virginia, and sang praises to peppermint ice cream after literally stealing a bite of my cone. 

by kathy schwille 
A literary gathering of this sort is an immensely ambitious task for any students to undertake, much less sophomores. Sophomore year is associated with "slump," apathy, and that not-yet-a-major lack ot mtellectual confidence. Yet for one week, one glorious week, a certain group of these "wise fools" have within a whisper's range some of the most creative, most promising, as well as most established minds of the literary world. A senior now, I can do little but watch from the wings as this year's fledgling festival takes shape. To be a sophomore is probably not the most delightful stage of most students' college career, but during Literary Festival week, I'd almost give my class ring to be one again. 


DON T WAIT! to have senior yearbook picture taken. Make J~ppointment now 
0-C students call 7524 bet~ween 7-9 p.m. for appointment. 
I 
Wednesday, January 30, 19741

the observer
6 
I
J l k 
• 
t 

! 
When will the housing lottery occur and how soon after will students know where they stand? 
The computer is scheduled to go to work on this matter Thursday 
t 
Night, if all goes according to plan. Hopefully, the computer printouts or some other form with the printouts' information will be 
forwarded to each respective hall involved by Friday Night or as
• 
soon as possible thereafter. A letter from the Director of Campus

• 
Residence should arrive sometime within a week to ten days after the lottery with additional information as to the general situation


• 
and course of action to be followed. 
Are people presently living in forced triples and like situations included in the housing lottery? 
Yes, ali mate students whether losers or winners in last year's iottery are included, if they are presently residing on campus. 
In the event that a substantial amount of seniors-to-be in one dorm decide to move out will this larger than average exodus aid juniors­to-be in the dorm in question? In other words, is each hall only respon~ible to allocate a certain number of beds for freshmen and once these beds have been secured is the lottery for that hall done? 
Yes, !hat is the situation as it now stands and it might be wise to also remember that sophomores-to-be who move off campus of !heir own choice will also help alleviate the problem of bumping upperclass off campus in their respective halls. 
Who's in charge of helping Off-Campus students with questions they might have with regard to leases? 
Rev. James Shilts is the man to see and he can be reached at 8411. 
! 
Chris O'Brien Staff Reporter 
"AIESEC <Association In­ternationale des Estudiants en Sciences Economiques et Com­merciales), an association of business and economics students, was created from the remnants of war-torn Europe , in 1948," said Michael Chinworth, President of AISEC at Notre Dame. Founded by students from seven countries, AIESEC has grown into an in­ternational organization consisting of fifty-three member countries. AIESEC spread to the United States in 1957 and now boasts local chapters at more than sixty colleges and universities. AIESEC is unique in that it is an autonomous, student run, non­political, non-profit organization. 
AIESEC was formed for the purpose of fostering an in­ternational exchange of skills in business. This exchange is achieved through the use of short­term, high-quality internships for students in a foreign country. Any student with either a bachelor's or master's degree works as a junior partner is some business for three to thirteen months. This system provides students exposure to foreign business methods, and thereby promotes a person-to­person international un­derstanding while creating a corps of young, internationally trained executive personnel. 
Chinworth joined AIESEC after spending his sophomore year in Japan and is now the AIESEC­United States Asian Coordinator. To get a foreign student a job here he must contact a company, research their record, and sell them . on hiring an AIESEC member. He must also obtain a visa and housing for the student then follow up by keeping in touch with the worker, visiting and taking him to social events. Severa area companies have aided Chinworth in his efforts. 
The most important part of Chinworth's job is getting other students interested in AIESEC. New members, especially fresh­r.Jen and sophomores, are welcomed to join the program. Not only does it offer a chance for foreign study, but it can help its members find jobs in the United States. Anyone interested can contact Chinworth at 8214. 
Chinworth would like to strengthen the Notre Dame chapter and start an AIESEC newsletter. The 89th Congress said "AISEC is one of our Nation's mot efficient and productive efforts to 

WAlEVS 
guest cellist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
Seymour Rubinstein-­Conductor 

Sat. Feb. 2, 1974 8:00pm Morris Civic Auditorium Tickets: $4.50, $2.50 available at box office on day of per­
formance only .after 5 pm 

Rare ~slides viewed at SMC 
by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 

Slides of newly discovered Byzantine Church ruins were viewed Monday night at a lecture in Carroll Hall, St. Mary's, titlec "Early Christian Architecture in trans--Jordan." The talk was given by Dr. Bastian Van Elderen, director of the Amerkan Center of Oriental Research, a corporation of 175 universities, seminaries, and colleges which have supported investigations of the architecture in Amman, Jordan and in Jerusalem. 
Van Elderen returned from his Middle East expeditions in December to make a lecture tour, and will return then~ to continue his uncovering of Byzantine ruins in March. 
The slides presented have been seen by few people, and few of the ruin pictures have been published yet. The investigations have been conducted since mosaics were discovered in 196:B, and will hopefully continue as long as funds are available. The group hopes to return to ruin sites located in the Hashmite Kingdom of Jordan, such as the cities of Medaba, and Talhistban and Jerusalem. 
"What we are trying to discover is the art, the early Christian ar­chitecture of the Byzantine church in trans-Jordan," said Van Elderen. 
Several questions have emerged as a result of the discoveries made 
A:IESEC group seeks interested business and economic stuclents 

create better mutual undersanding among peoples of the world and to 
train future leaders." 

m certain areas of investigation. What was the history of the Church? What gave rise to Christianity in this area? Should evidence in these areas suggest that Christianity was also an Eastern movement? Such questions arose when the ex­cavations of Byzantine ruins revealed the presence and the building of Christian churches in srite of the Islam take-over of Jordan before 595 A.D. Van Eideren feels that this might throw new light on the history of tha time, indicating there was much tolerance for Christianity during the whole Islam period. 
Most of the organizatbn's in­formation has come from the excavation of Byzantine Cathedral floors which have remained part of the ruins. The floors are made of intricate mosaics. The mosaics are multi-colored, with geometric and interlocking designs depicting everyday life. The puzzling lack of Biblical scenes in the mosaics raises the question, "How do we interpret the Byzantine theology?" 
However, there are inscriptions which reveal Christian veneration of Christ and the Virgin Mary. An inscription on a stone in a typical Byzantine cathedral dated its erection at 595 A.D. 'l'ranslated from the Greek, it reads: "Christ,· our God, raised up this House." 
"I have enjoyed the expeditions immensely," said Van Elderen. The excavations have involved him in Biblical studies and provided him with enough material for publication. "It has been an attempt to fill in gaps in !he history of ancient civilization," he said. "I feel the idea is that learning more about ancient history will help us to better in­terpret the past, to understand the present, so that we can plan for the future.'' 
MEN !--WOMEN! 
JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. w,,rldwide travel. Perfect sum­mer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. SEAFAX, Dept. 6-F, 
P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362. 
flrttfont 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 

Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your J.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 

Take this opportunity to wear and enjoy a university styled suit, sportcoat or outercoat at substantial savings. This is our annua I sales event.. .. it's a genuine chance to save big. Stop by. Soon. 
ON THE CAMPUS ... ~ 'NOTRE DAME 
r 
NFL Draft 
Dallas-Defensive end Ed Jones, Tennessee State San Diego-Fullback Bo Matthews, Colorado New York Giants-Tackle John Hicks, Ohio State Chicago-Linebacker Waymond Brayant, Tenn. State Baltimore-Defensive tackle John Dutton, Nebraska New York Jets-Tackle Carl Barzilauskas, Indiana St. louis-Tight end J.V. Cain, Colorado Detroit (from Saints)-Linebacker Ed O'Neill, Penn State San Franscisco (from Pats)-Back Wilbur Jackson, Alabama San Francisco-Defensive tackle Bill Sandifer, UCLA los Angeles(from Philadelphia)-halfback John Cappelletti, Penn State Green Bay-Fullback Barty Smith, Richmond New Orleans (from lions)-Linebacker Rich Middleton, Ohio State Denver-Linebacker Randy Gradishar, Ohio State San Diego (from Browns)-Linebacker Dan Goode, Kansas Kansas City-Halfback Woody Green, Arizona State Minnesota (from Falcons)-Linebacker Fred McNeill, UCLA Buffalo-Tight end Reuben Gant, Oklahoma State Oakland-Tackle Henry Lawrence, Florida A&M Chicago (from Redskins through Rams)-Tackle Dave Gallagher, Michigan Pittsburgh-Flanker Lynn Swann, Southern California Dallas-Back Charlie Young, North Carolina State Cincinnati-Defensive tackle Bill Kollar, Montana State Baltimore (from Rams)-Wide receiver Roger Carr, Louisiana Tech Minnesota-Tackle Steve Riley, Southern California Miami-Defensive end Donald Reese, Jackson State 
Casper and Townsend, too!!! 
Two members of Notre Dame's 1973 National Championship football team were selected during the first day of the National Football League college draft. Team captain and tight end Dave Casper was chosen by the Oakland Raiders in the second round, and defensive captain-safetyman Mike Townsend was later picked by the New Orleans Saints. 
The draft continues today in New York City. 
SMC r..a.'s discuss re-evaluation 
by Bill Sohn Staff Reporter 
A meeting in Regina Hall Auditorium last Sunday night at 
7:30 was held between Ann Smith, chairman of Saint Mary's Hall Life Commission, and the R.A.'s from Saint Mary's (from all halls except McCandless, which had a con­flicting meeting and will meet with Smith on Wednesday night.). The meeting was held to inform the R. A.'s and get their ideas on the Saint Mary's Hall Life Commission's re­evaluation of the R. A. program. 
"We got a lot of good ideas. Who would know better than the R. A.'s? It was a real good meeting," commented Smith. 
The re~valuation began, Smith explained, last fall when the Hall Life Commission sent out letters and questionnaires to 45 colleges 
comparable to Saint Mary's.  39  
responses were received.  
Also  a  random  sampling  of  

students and hall staff members at 
:~~:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::' 
;:;: 40% off :;:: Cards 
town & country ' _ • -.,....! shoppmg center -J.\.\'-1;,. mishawaka, md iana 46544 5 u 1;e ~ 
, '. 


Saint Mary's rece1ved a · questionnaire. 
r'inally, the Hall Life Com­mission, which consists of Smith and the presidents of the four halls at Saint Mary's has been meeting with representatives from the halls. 
Thus fai· the Hall Life Com­mission is working on recom­mendations on six aspects of the R. 
A. program. They are: 
l. R.A. selection process; 
2. Allocation of R.A.'s; 
3. ;:-8\ninl!. program;
4. 
..o1e of R.A. 's 

5. 
Reimbursement of R.A.'s; 

6. 
Evaluation procedure. 


Smith commented, "All of it is building on the current R.A. program. The program we have now is good. We are just trying to improve it, for the benefit of both the R.A.'s and the students." 
Smith said the Hall Life Com­mission is now working on writing 
256'0111 
the recommendations. They will be presented to Dr. Cannon, vice president of student affairs at Saint Mary's, and Miss Mulvaney, Saint Mary's Dean of Students. The Hall Life Commission hopes to do this by the third week in February. 
"We are very hopeful about the success of the project," said Smith. "The administration seems to be open to ideas. 
Anyone with ideas is welcome to express them to their Hall president or myself.'' 
:·r-------------. 
, ' 
MO.qE IN=O, CO/o/rACT' 
S TRANTER 259-1981 1CRAIG KAPSON 259-1981
• ' ,.,....,....,j.,.,..... 1....'\~" 
[IIRENT·A·OO] 
Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka' 

Wednesday, January :10, 1974 
the observer 
7 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
60 watt RMS KLH receiver,$160; Garrard SL95B turntable complete, $125; 2 EPI 100 loudspeakers, $135; 1 EPI 50 loudspeaker, $35. AKAI open reel deck with sound on sound, Soleniod controls, 3 motor, and auto reverse, $250. 
Call Kim at 234·2536 or 288·0950 after 5:30pm. 
Overstuffed chairs $3·$5. Free delivery to dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 after 6 p~. 
Wilson classic golf clubs bag, batls + tees. Less than year ..•I d. Best offer. 8428. 
Panasonic Stereo Cassette tape player. Call 3344. 
F.o.il Bike Thieves!! SJper· duper bike locks for sale. Judy 4970. 
Fender Bassman amp. 100 watt RMS solid state 2 inputs. G,:,Jd C<md. $130 trim. C:unrad. bass guitar balck nylon strings 
$60. Bert 1604. 
s•ereo 'urntable, thorens m.•del TD160. Only 3 weeks ·•ld. Full warranty included. $175. Call 232·1535 after 8 :30 
PM. 
LOST AND FOUND 
L•st class ring '74, top<IZ, TLS inside. O'SHag before finals. Reward. Tim 234·8092. 
L.•s! black leather wallet between Washington Hall + Alumni. Call Dan 1029. 
L•st class ring '74 It. blue st,me, EFG . Reward. Ed 232· 8122. 
L•st Accutron watch initials JpPJ 12·25·72. Reward Call 1579. 
L<JSt gold timex around South Dining Hall. Reward. Jake 1816. 
Lost set of 4 keys on leather strap. Call Dave 7888. 
Found season hockey ticket at Ace rink after Bowlin\! Green game. Owner must identify seat, row, section. Call 3444. 
L.Js!: Kodah X·15 lns.tamatic camera. Reward. Call Steve 7822. 
F,Jund basketball ticket after 'he UCLA game in ACC. Call Harry to identify. 282·1568. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished apt. for rent. 3 ruomsp\usbath. $80per month 
+ utilities. Couple preferred. Ca II 259-0930 Between tl and 7 pm. 
R,,oms for girls close to ND, kHchen privileges. swimming pool $15 per week. 272-3004 after 6 pm. 
1974·75 school year. Beautiful lhlUSe nice neighborhood. 5BR. 234-5523. 
NOTICES 
2nd ANNUAL GSU SKI TRIP: 5·10 pm Feb. 16, Swiss Valley. $6. Half price to firfirst 25 grad sign.ups. Bus availble. P. 
B.•lduc, 373 Nieuwland Schience Hall. 
G,,,,d 'ickets for !he Fri. Feb. 8 perfrumance d Grease at M.·.rris Civic arc now available a1 the student union ticket . ffice, 1·5 daily. 
LONDON SHOW TOUR: Marett 10·18 $451 from SB; includes air accumadations, 
ix. $100 deposi' due Feb. 1. 
Call Sister Jean Kiene 284·4516 r Clark Eide 234·4516. 234-2098. 
Sister Marita needs volunteers fur 'he Primary Day School. 
F.·r information call 7889. 
Experienced 'ypist will do erm papers manuscripts etc. Call 233·5332. 
A L'ng-Expec!ed Party will be lteld in La F,Jrt une tom<.rruw Please come ,,vet and help us dec,lrate lhe ballroo,m all day 
'om,~rrow. 
WANTED 
R,;,Jmmate wanted share 11ouse with four seniors. Call 232·7682 between 10:30 pm and 12 am. 
Needed: 2.,r 1 !ix to Bob Dylan C<mcer! in An Arbor this Sat. 
Call 6716. 
Need male to share furnished twuse. $8~.soper includes uti.. 
232·2430 ask for Tim. 
Desperately need LaSalle tix. 234·4833. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Jump.High + T .C.: GeGrge Geoddeke kicks hard. Sincerely. Gorrilla. 
Flash! Flas11! tropical storm definitely sigh>ed ... \oaks like a Hurricane.. High winds and devastation reported in Back L<JC: L,Juisiana ...headed Nor­th.~. ETA South B~nd Sett.l­:00. 
To THE DOUBLE DOMER: You always put a gleam in people's eyes.when you hold your head right. 
Mary Ann, the Space Cadet: 
Do  you  need 11elp with  your  
family way?  
Concerned.  

Hey, Phoenix Ping Pong phenomena,Congratulations!! 
! 
TONIGHT TONIGHT 

*Livt:· music by the 
Me rk Bloom Band so~ all night 

*No cover charge 

.. 

.. 
----------~---~ 
Wednesday, January 30, 1974

the observer
8 
ND--one less 'T', six more points
scored 21 points and pulled down by Greg Corgan 

seven rebounds. "Ellis was very impressive,"

If the south dome of the ACC had noted Phelps. "He's a super fresh­been a big top, last night's Notre man who can play with them all. 
Dame-Marquette basketball game He'll get better with game ex­would have been a three-ring perience."
circus. Between the contest itself, "I thought Bo played a goodND's bumbling performance at the game," added McGuire. "I felt foul line, and the Digger and AI Paterno, Dantley, and Novak were show, there would have been a mismatch on Ellis." 
enough material for a week's But while the Warriors mayperformance including a Sunday have had Ellis, the Irish had Billymatinee. Throw in the isolated Paterno and Shumate, and theycrowd disturbances and there was proved to be the difference. 
something for everybody. we our
"In the first half, ran Despite the wide variety of triangle-two defense which leaves entertainment, the game itself someone free and Billy Paterno proved to be the main event, and really hurt us," said McGuire. 

\hanks to ringmasters, or referees, "We were able to hold Brokaw and as they are known in basketball Clay, but Paterno dropped some circles, Art White and Ed real bombs in on us." 
Maracich, the spotlight was kept "They were playing the triangle 
on the court. And it highlighted covering Shu and Brok," offeredquite a show. 
Paterno, who had 14 points. "That With the aid ofnine unanswered left me open in the corner to shoot,points r.1idway through the second and that's what I did in high school half, the third-ranked Irish got all the time-shoot. I play to staytheir thirteenth win of the year outside and work the ball inside for 

with an exciting 69-63 victory over Shu, but when they concentrate on the fifth-rated Warriors. 
him inside, that opens it u·p for "It was a good game," said me." 

Marquette coach Al McGuire. "I 
"Paterno's great," allowed 

thought both squads played ex­McGuire, "but no one will know cellently as it went right down to how great until Shumate leaves."
the wire." 
Fortunately for the Irish he The game didn't exactly go down hasn't left yet, and he made his to the wire, but it came close presence felt last night. Besides enough. 

leading all scorers with 27 points,With 3:46 left in the ball game the big Shu pulled down 11 

John Shumate hit a seven-foot rebounds, something the Irish 
bank shot followed by two free found difficult to do all eveningthrows by Andrian Dantley to give against the taller Warriors. 
the Irish a 61-54 lead. On the foul to "The key was Shumate," ex­
The main aHr;1ctions of last night's MarqueHe-Notre Dame game were coaches AI McGuire (left)
Dantley, Marquette's big fresh­plained McGuire. "We stopped 
and Digger Phelps (right). Oh, yes, Digger's Irish won, 69-63.
man forward Bo Ellis fouled out, 
Brokaw like we wanted to, but we and although the Warriors don't have anyone to cover The errors weren't of the one­of the second half with a little more provided some anxious moments,narrowed the gap to 65-61 with 1: 12 Shumate one on one." sided variety however. Both teams proficiency at the charity stripe. and both logged a technical foul.
left, and 67-63 with 22 seconds left, "I thought Shu played a good committed a total of 35 turnoevers, The game proved to be not only a But, as both Digger and Al
the Irish seemed comfortably in game offensively as well as 14 by the Irish and 21 by battle of two excellent basketball McGuire later admitted in the
control. Marquette, but the big problem
crashing the boards. Notre Dame teams, or two partisan crowds locker room, the gist of the ex­
One of the big reasons they were may have been a little tired tonight came at the free throw line where <specifically the Oklahoma moters citement is all psychological, and 
was the absence of Ellis and Earl after all the traveling they have Notre Dame could hit on but 13 of in the Marquette cheering sec­sometimes it works and sometimes Tatum, who fouled out with a little 24 attempts, and only 5 of 11 in the tion'), but also a battle of coach
done, and that is why our board it doesn't. Last night it may have
under two minutes left to play. play was probably better than it first half. Although they had a versus coach, and coach versus worked a little for both.Ellis was a big thorn in the side of should have been. Still, Notre fairly comfortable lead at in­referee. But Marquette and Notre Damecoach Digger Phelps and the rest termission, 33-25, "I the was
Dame created the errors we made the Irish could though officiating r.10st likely have not seen the last
of the Irish squad all night as he tonight." have eliminated the "excitement" good throughout the entire game," of each other, and only the NCAA noted Al McGuire. "The big 
tournament will tell when. For 

problem concerned a TV timeout now, both coaches and both teams which was called when we had the respect each other, and another
Tankers split in Michigan 
momentum. You don't call r.1atch-up will most-likely provetimeouts when one team is busting just as exciting.
up-and-down the floor." 
"The Irish belong right whereby Hal Munger O'Connor and Jim Kane gave home squad finished one-two in "I don't know what Al was they are in the ratings-two orThe Notre Dame swim team Notre Dame victory in the 400-yard each of three races (200-yard bothered about," countered three," said McGuire. "They are

suffered its first loss of the season, freestyle relay with a time of breaststroke, 200-yard butterfly Digger. "II was a Milwaukee TV in excellent ballclub, and they beat 
58-55 at Oakland University Friday 3:20.84. and 100-yard freestyle) in addition station, and it was probably a UCLA, which will be rememberednight, but the Irish tankmen came O'Connor also notched a first to copping top honors in 200-and commercial for his cm·poration up for a long time."
back Saturday to raise their season place with a time of 1:51.2 in the 500-yard freestyles as well as the or something. just
there I'd tell And Digger patted Al's back.
mark to 5-l with a 63-50 victory 200-yard freestyle. He became the 200-yard individual medley. 
him, what are you complaining "I was very impressed withover Wayne State University in squad's only two-time winner The Irish won both diving events about, you got $40,000 for that Marquette's team. They pressedDetroit. The victory also moved during the meet as his 5:15 mark <Mark Foster with 218.6 points in minute time-out." 
well, and they have a lot ofCoach Dennis Stark within three was good enough for top honors in · the one-meter and Bob Ebel with Nonetheless, both coaches discipline. Al McGuire has done a

wins of the century mark. Stark the 500-yard free. 234.3 in the three-meter) in ad­good job. They work the ball well.
has been Irish coach for 16 The victory over the Detroiters dition to the 200-yard backstroke UPI Poll Both Notre Dame and Marquette
seasons. Saturday night was the 13th <Bob Thompson) and the 1000-yard are tournament teams."
Wayne State proved to be a without a loss for Notre Dame in freestyle <Drew Wallach). Team Polats I. UCLA (35) . .13-1 350 Then he added with a little grin, stubborn opponent, although the the series between the two schools. The Irish swimmers travel to 
2. No. Car. St. .13-1 291 "I think they belong right whereIrish won nine of the 13 events. The relay team also got victory West Virginia on February 2 to 
3. Notre Dame. --··; .12·1 279 
they belong-four or five."

Drew Wallach, Jim Meagher, Joe on Friday night at Oakland, but the take on Marshall University. 4. North Carolina ...13·2 230 
5. 
Marquette . . . .16-1 183 There's a little showman in both 

6. 
Maryland . . . . . . . . .12·3 157 


Digger Phelps and Al McGuire,

7. 
Vanderbilt . . . ... • .1+1 91 

8. 
Providence . . . ..• -., .. !3-2 68 and perhaps that's why there was a 


I. Alabarna . . . . . . , .. 13-2 48 lot of show last night.
Harriers lose to Wildcats 
10. 
Pittsburgh .. -' . . -.!Sol 39 

11. 
Southern Cal... .. . . .14-2 38 


Skiers take cup

12. Long Beach St. -.14-2 31 
by Pete McHugh 13. (Tie) Ind... . . . . , .. . .IH 20
metal ball 55' 5" to better his impressive if not victorious in their 13. (Tie) Louisville _.11·3 20 In line with the current "No. l"Managing only four firsts out of winning mark of the previous week seasonal debuts for the Irish. 15. South Carolina . . . . . . .12·3 17 fixation at Notre Dame it seems
fifteen events, the Notre Dame by almost a foot. Hogan took second place in the 16. Kansas. . . . . . .12-4 14 17. Wisconsin.. .11·2 13 only appropriate that a group of
track team suffered its first defeat In the other Irish victories, Mike pole vault (14'6"), while Reinhart ..14-3 ND skiers would be out to prove
18. Tex·EI Paso . 11
of the season last Thursday losing Gahagan captured the only win in was 1·unner-up in the 1000-yard 19. (Tie) Purdue .12·5 5 5 that they're at the top too.
II. (Tie) Syracuse. ..12-3
to Northwestern BQ-51 at the ACC. distance competition with a 1:53.3 dash. 
And that's exactly what hap­

The Irish never seriously time in the 880-yard run. Mike Other Irish scoring included pened \ast month when a dozenchallenged the Wildcats after the 
Housely and Joe Yates placed freshman Paul Martuscello (2nd AP Poll Notre Dame students gathered at
dash competitions in which Nor­second in the mile and two mile run place, 60-yard dash; 3rd place, 300-I. UCLA (51) . . . . . .IS. I 1,038 Aspen, Colo., for a week ofthwestern's sprinters outscored respectively for the Irish. yard dash), Ron DePetris (2nd 2. N.C. State ...... , .. , .. IJ.l 894 recrea tiona! skiing.
the Irish 38-7. The well-balanced Though consistently edged in place, long jump), Bob Zanot (3rd 3. Notre Oame (l) . , .. lH B64 4. North Carolina . . .... 13·2 Mil Six members of the ND group.. Wildcats relied on their depth in individual dashes, the Notre Dame place, long jump), Jim Hurt (3rd 5. Marquette . · ... · . . 16-1 565 joined a slalom race "for.the fun ofthe other events to breeze to their one mile relay team (Jim Clouse, place, mile), J.C. Seth (3rd place, I. Maryland . . .. <. •. ... 11-3 537 467 it" on the last day of the trip and
7. Vanderbilt , . .• .-. 14-1
second dual meet victory without a Bill Phillips, Bob Schott, John pole vault), John Long (3rd place, 8. Alabama. . . . . _13-2 445 ended up walking away with theloss. The setback evened Notre Long) with a 3:28.8 clocking easily 600-yard dash), and Tim Balzer I. Providence . . -. , .. 13-2 397 Aspen Scott Challenge Cup,
Dame's record at 1-1. 10. Long Beach State_ ... ... 14-2 230
defeated the Northwestern (3rd place, high jump). 

11. Southern Cal . . . .. . _13·2 212 symbolic of complete dominanceOne of the few bright spots for quartet. Junior Jack Gerwe In their next showinb, the Irish 12. Indiana . . . . . . 12-3 lts over the many other major collegethe Irish was the performance of continued his winning ways in the face Michigan and a Dave Wattle­13. Pittsburgh . . . .14-1 !50 
teams entered in the event. The

14. S. Carolina. .
freshman shotputter Al Pulikowski 60-yard high hurdles, taking his less Bowling Green squad in a . . _. 12-3 119 15. LouisviUe . . . . . 11·3 ts teams were formed from the over
who outdistanced teammates John specialty in 7.6seconds to just edge triangular meet Friday at the II. Wisconsin.... .... 11·2 74 1,000 members of the nationally­Harchar and Bill George to lead a teammate Ed Burns. ACC. The field events begin at 6:30 17. New Mexico . . . . . . 14-3 27 
based Student Ski Association who 

18. Kansas. . . . . . . . . . ... 12-4 25
Notre Dame sweep in that field Sophomore Mike Hogan and p.m. and admission is free for all 
II. Oral Roberts. . . . ....... 16-2 22 were at the resort for the week of
event. Pulikowski heaved the freshman Jim Reinhart were students with presenltation of ID. 21. llictllgan . .. . . . . . . . . . .. 12-3 21 skiing. 









