
'-----~---~-------­

On The Inside 
Sinatra a no-show ... page 3 Hearst kidnap .•. page 6 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh reaches into the Mardi Gras barrel of raffle tickets to determine the winners of this year's 1974 Chevrolet. The drawing took place at 4 p.m. Sunday, barely an hour before the closing of Mardi Gras. (Staff photo by Ed Brower) 
No joke--ND freshmen 

win Mardi Gras prizes 
by Susan Divita Staff Reporter 
Winning the 1974 Chevrolet Impala was Tom Waldoch from Englewood, California, a freshman from Holy Cross Hall. He wasn't even in his room when Stephen Boy, Mardi Gras chairman, called up to inform him he'd won, and his rommate had to run around the hall trying to locate him and tell him the good news, according to Leyden. Tom says he'll be going with Boy on Friday to see the car at Gates Chevrolet in downtown South Bend. 
"I thought it was a joke," said 
Truck traffic heavier 

but strike continues despite Nixon plea 
By United Press International 
Independent truckers wheeled their rigs onto the nation's highways in increasing numbers Sunday but in some areas striking drivers defied President Nixon's plea to get all the trucks back on the road. 
Reports from authorities generally indicated heavier truck traffic for a Sunday stimulating hopes that crippling consumer and industrial shortages would taper off. 
In Washington, Transportation Secretary Claude S. Brinegar issued a statement saying, '"Today's survey of truck traffic on the nation's highways indicates a continuation of the favorable trend of the last few days­truck traffic in total continued to climb and reported incidents continue to fall." 
Brinegar said the cooperation of "a vast majority of the nation's truckers" and safety measures ordered by governors "should now permit all truckers to return to the highways." 
The independent truckers are protesting increased cost of diesel fuel and lower speed limits which are cutting into their income. 
The President, in a nationwide broadcast, had urged the drivers to get back to work "to provide food, fuel and other supplies too all Americans." 
"Now is the time to get all the trucks back on the road," he said. 
Jay Leyden when he was told he won the 500 dollar second place Mardi Gras raffle drawing. Jay said he couldn't believe it was true, then all kinds of people started calling and congratulating him. 
Leyden, a freshman in Morrissey Hall, from Toledo, Ohio, says "Notre Dame will get the rnoney right back in tuition." Leyden also won a bean-bag chair from the one ticket he bought. 
Boy says Mardi Gras can be called "a moderate success," but the final financial results won't be known until about a week, after bills are paid off and every thing's been calculated. 
Monday, February 11, 1974 

SMC Board nixes original measure 
Revised parietals due before Fall'74 
by Pattie Cooney St. Mary's Editor 

The St. Mary's Board of Regents, on Saturday, 
February 9, defeated a previously tabled ~resolution on extended male visitation hour!>. 
However, the Board did agree that present 
vistation hours should be extended and offered 
an alternative solution. 

The alternative solution consists of the 
creation of a committee to work out the alter­
natives. On the committee will be three 
representatives of the Board of Regents (ap­
pointed by _the Chairman of the Board), three 
representatives of the students, faculty, and 
administration all to be appointed by Dr. Ed­
ward L. Henry, President of St. Mary's College. 
"The Regents felt that our male visitation 
proposal was too limited in so far as solving the 
problem of social life on this campus is con­
cerned," explained Mary Ellen Stumpf, student 
1·epresentative on the Board of Regents. The 
Board apparently realized that extending 
parietals would not be enough to change the lack 
of a social life on campus. A change of the 
lifestyle in the dorms is one of the major con­
cerns of the new committee. 

"I think that the Board showed a great deal of 
vision on broadening the scope of the com­
rnittee's jurisdiction. They realize that campus 
lifestyle does not merely mean male visitation, 
but that something more is needed," noted 
Henry. "The committee will do more than 
review rnale visitation, they will be looking into 
experimental lifestyles, the improvement and 
expansion of physical facilities. The principal 
thrust, however is to get an agreement on on a 
visitation policy," he continued. 

Both Henry and Stumpf emphasized that the 
decision fo the committee is final. "It's up to the 
committee to decide what needs to be done. The 
final decision is theirs, not the Board of Regents, 
and it is important that everyone realize this," 
explained Stumpf. "Furthermore, the fact that 
the decision rests with with the committee has a 
far greater implication than extended male 
visitation; it is a vote of confidence for Dr. Henry 
and the administrarion," she continued. 
Barb McKiernan, chairman of the Student 
Board of Governance agreed, "I think the new 
resolution is really good. It shows great vote of 
confidence for the adminsistration. I have 
complete confidence in Dr. Henry. Now the 
problem is in the hands of those who should 
have been handling it to begin with. The main 
crux of the problem is getting something done 
quickly and in the best way possible," stated 
Me Kiernan. 

In addition, "The new committee will 
probably come up with ideas for the dorms to be 
used as Living and Learning centers. Living and 
Learning, being a new mode of trying to in­
tergrate all the ways one lives and grows, thus 
breathing new life into the dorms," said Stumpf. 
The committee will begin to organize on 
Monday morning. Action on some matters could 
take place anywhere from a week to ten days. A 
revised policy concerning parietals will be 
implemented no later than fall of 1974. 
"I am highly optimistic that we will come up 
with a decision that will appeal to all of our 
constituencies (Holy Cross Sisters Regents, 
Students, faculty, and Administrators) and 
would like to emphasize that it will not a 
unilateral decision on the part of one group. I 
would also urge the student body to be patient, 
because I think we have achieved a major 
breakthrough in terms of improving campus 
lifestyle." concluded Henry. 

"The improvement could come through 
possible renovation of wasted space in the dorms 
to provide more comfortable space for 
socializing," said Stumpf. 

On Monday and Tuesday nights of thi& week, 
hall meetings will be conducted by student 
l~aders to inform the students in more detail of 
the Board's decision. All students are urged to 



,McKiernan 

at~~nd and to ask questions about the resoiution. 
I am particularly overwhelmed that the Board was sincerely positive about this problem, moreover, I was happy to see them show this sincerity by entrusting the decision to Dr. Henry and the new c~1mittee," commented Stumpf. 
The hall meetings on Monday night are as follows: 9:_00 p.m.-lO:OOp.m. in Regina, and lO:OOp.m. m Holy Cross; on Tuesday night from 9-10 pm McCandless and from 10-11 p.m. in LeMans. 

-----------­--------~----~------­ 
l the observer =-----~  •, 'I, i 0 0 ~ 'r, ~~ f"f ,', •,_'•r, , I t f ·'· :. ·, Monday, February 11, 1974  . .. .. . ..  ' ' • J ,.  I • ._  ..• y., I  

The Observer is publiShed daily

Student rescued from lake Friday 
during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the stvctents of the University of Notre Dame and Sl. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per

by Jack D'Aurora firer.1en played a dil·ect role in holding on the ice with his elbows. safeness ~~ the ice, because 
Staff Reporter ,·escuing the student by extending Sor.1e people on the shore were sor.1eone wiil always be tempted to 
semester ($14 per year) from The 

a laddet· to him." ND Security also about to come on th ice to help him, l'ross, "l.'ven if it's not thick enough." 
Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, A Notre Dame student fell contacted South Bend for a rescue but he told them to call for help "It was a dur.1b thing to do," he 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.

•hrough the ice of St. Mary's lake l'l'ew. instead. added. "I was just lucky." 
46556.

ias! Friday anmnd noon. The Holy Aftet· being rescued, the student "I kept moving about as much a Cross Hali resident, who wishes to was able to walk to the ambulance possible, kicking r.1y legs and ,·er.1ain anonymous, was rescued and was taken to St. Joseph's r-'oving r.1y fingers a lot. I've 
SendtheFTD
by car.1pus fit·emen. Hospital for treatment. He noted swur.1 in the ocean off Boston in the The student was taken to St. 1hat hewas iucky in that his body faH, so I've had some cold water 

LoveBundleMand the 
Joseph's Hostital where he was 1er.1pe1·ature dropped only 3 cxperience," said the student, "but !reated briefly and released. degrees. I started to worry a little when I Hospital officials noted that the The student had crossed he ice alnost got some cramps and r.1y 

Extra Touch"'of 
student's body temperature had successfully three times earlier i£>gs started getting tired." dropped only three degrees below rhat. "I went to class and then He was able to throw off his 

Joie de Fleur'Mperfume.
normal. back to Holy Cross going over the shoes which began weighing him The incident occurred as the ice. Then I went on the ice again on down.-His coat was too bur­
student was walking on the lake Py way back to the dining hall, but densor.1e to remove, though. between Holy Cross Hall and the on r.'y way back is when I went The student suggested that Dining Hall. Eyewitnesses report down," explained the student. "I security post signs stating the 
•hat the student spent about 15 •ried to get off but one of my feet Pinutes in the lake. went through, followed almost Secrecy blankets 

"We got a call at 12:05 p.m. that ir.,r.,ediately by r.1y other foot and a student had fallen into the lake," •hen the rest of r.1e." oil conference 
When she's there 
said Secut·ity Director Arthur After falling through, the student 
and you're here 
Pear. "The Notre Dame firemen star·ted treading water, being too WASHINGTON <UPO 
and it's Valentine's Day, 
responded to the call, and three deep to allow him to stand and Major oil consuming nations 
send her the FfD 
LoveBundle Bouquet
Sunday laid a ground rule of 

-tender blossoms
secrecy for Monday's oil crisis 

and a satin 

Henry elected by NCEA 
eonfe,·ence, a meeting con­

heart sachet with a
der.med as "an Ar.1erican trap" 

capsule of FfD's~~~-~~l~~
Dr. Edward L. Henry, St. Mary's of Catholic education on current 
by Arabs and opposed even by 

exclusive new
College President, has been issues. 
perfume, Joie
Sol\le hostile conference par·­

elected to membership on the Mer.1bership in NCEA includes 
Fleur.. Call or visit your 
'icipants.

Executive Committee of the colleges and universities, secon­
FfD Florist today. He can
College and University Depart­dary and elementary schools, The hosting U.S. Stale De­
send your flowers across the 
ment of the National Catholic parish religious educational partr.,ent said officials of the 13 
street or across the country. 
Educational Association (NCEA>. centers, seminaries, diocesan and invited nations and two interna­Saint Mary's Collge, the nation's religious communities. 
tional organizations discussed

first legally chartered Catholic In addition to regional 
operating procedures for the

college for women, is a long­workshops and seminars, the 
Usually available for less th~l250
*
1W11-day conference and decided

standing member of NCEA. NCEA sponsors an annual week­
'As an independent businessman, each
to bar newsmen from all formal

long convention for members to 
FTD Member Florist sets his own prices.
The NCEA was founded in 1904 
"Your Ex!ro Touch Floris!"

©1974 Florists'Transworld Delive Association.
share views with prominent working sessions. 
and is the world's largest private 
educators from all over the world. educational enterprise. This NCEA publishes eight regualar organization represents Catholic periodicals throughout the year, educators to other national and also provides consultative organizations, government of­services to educators and in­ficials and the general public in stitutions at all levels of Catholic presenting the views and interests education. 
WED. FEB. 13th 
Thru 
SUN. FEB. 17th 
;:-.· 

NOTRE DAME Athletic and Convocation Center 
,fAPAOIS 
PRICES· ~ nCKETS ON SALE:
• NOTRE DAME A. C. C.
PERFORMANCES 

$4•00 $5• BOX OFFICE
WED. (Teacher's Credit 

AI Seats Resened I 10111. SIT. 9 to 5
Union Night) 

THURS. 8:00 p.m. 1/2 price tickets for Notre FRI. 8:00 p.m. Dame ·St. Mary's students 
SAT. 2:00 and 8:00 1 

on these performances:
SUII. 2:00 and 6:00 

Thurs 8pm, Sat. 2 pm, 
THE CULTURAL A.ATB CDMMIIBIDN S 
DANCE & DRAMA 
,.....,.. 
Gertrude Stein February 17,1974 Little Theatre ............... 8: OOpm 

fj\merican Character Series" 
Walt Whitman March 24th, 1974 Little Theatre ............... 8:OOpm 
Mark Twain March 31st, 1974admission to each event is $1.00. 

Washington Hall. ............. 8:00pm 

Dance & Drama Patron Card 
Holders are admitted FREE. 
Ben Hecht April 21st, 1974 Washington Hall .............. 8: OOpm
7 

warld briefs 
SAIGON <UPI>-A fierce battle which already has cost the lives of nearly 100 Saigon government troops and North Vietnamese t·egulars in South Vietnam's Central Highlands went into its third day Sunday. But fighting tapered off elsewhere. 
PHNOM PENH <UPI>-Several hundred rebel troops occupied an area only two miles south of Phnom Penh Sunday and field reporters said they were geared for an attack on a la1·ge electric generating plant at Chak Angre on the capital's outskirts. 
A Car.1bodian army field commander told UPI ,·eportet· Pat Sun that the Cmmunist troops passed in front of is position at Prek Long Saturday night and Sunday. 

an campus today 
9 a.m.-5 p.m.--peace corps and vista representatives, library con­course 6-8 p.m.--opening, painting and sculpture of Tom Nakashima and peter charles, professor at u of west virginia. sponsored by CAC and art deptl, isis gallery, free 8 p.m.--sophomore lit. festival, robert creeley poetry reading, library audl, free 8 p.m.--travelogue, scottish rite travelogue, "great trans-canada trainride" with charles f. taylor, o'laughlin aud., tickets at door 

Spoon River Anthology April 29th, 1974 Washington Ha I1.. ............8:OOpm 


by Art Fenanti Executive Editor 

Fr·ank Sinatra will not with Bob Hope and Reynolds February 25 ACC officials Friday. Plouff, · . director of ACC, said Sinatra would not able to attend due to "a collflietlOO: interests.'' 
Hope and Reynolds wi pt·esent their show two today with "one, poE~ibly more guest stars yet Munced. In addition, Irish routw;~,u coach At·a Parseghian is , ... u:u.•·<U. join the show, said Joseph assistant manager of tbe 
The show will be live , t·unning three or more Sassano. It will be taped television showing in the future. 
As for the vance sales sent back t 
~'{ 
Grad program 
on council 
The Graduate Program in Business Administration at tbe University of Notre Dame has been elected to membership in the Graduate Business Admissions Council of Princeton, N.Y., ac­cording to Dean Thomas T. Murphy. Dr. John R. Malone, associate dean for graduate study, has been named Notre Dame's representative on the Council. 
Representatives of 35 leading graduate business schools make up the membership of the Council which publishes "Graduate Study in Management: A Guide for Prospective Students." The group r.1eets twice yearly, once in Princeton and once during the Peelings of th American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business. 
ND debate teams take top honors at Kent State 
Two Notre Dame debate teams 
took high honors at the Buckeye 
Invitational Debate Tournament at 
Kent State last weekend. 
Juniors Dave Hayes and Jeff 
Rajchel were recognized as the 
first and third best speakers in the 
tournament, respectively. Hayes 
and Rajchel, in repeating the same 
honors they received at last year's 
tournament, also reached the 
semifinal round. 
The Notre Dame teams of Mike 
Anderson and Mike Anderson 
and Tony Pandolfo, both seniors, 
were ranked among the top eight of 
the 70 teams at the tournament. 
Teams from Pittsburgh, John 
Carroll, Purdue, Duquesne and 
Western Michigan were included 
in the 70 teams competing. 
Notre Dame entered the Kent 
State tournament as the defending 
champions. Jack Keeney and John 
Borkowski, now assistant ND 
debate coach, captured first place 
last year. 
The Thomas A. Dooley Foundation is Working.... 
in Cambodia, in Laos, in Nepal, in the hearts of millions. 
<W
for information 
on how you can help: 
· Write P.O. Box 1195 South Bend, Ind. 

------~-·---------------·---~-------~--...... 
Monday, February 11, 1974 the observer 
3 
Aim at stay system 

Study female housing plans 
by Chris O'Brien other women's dorms if there is going overseas next year should Staff Reporter room available, said Mulcahy. indicate that on their contract Those choosing Lyons will after when they return it. These signed 
"Basically, we are trying to April 15, be inciuded in a separate contracts must be returned bycreate a stay system with a stable Lyons Hall lottery which will April 15th to the Housing Office. 

population consisting of a determine the order by which ' Actual room picks will take significant number of girls from students pick rooms in Lyons itself place in each hall on May 1,2, and each class," said Fr. Mulcahy, or one of the other women's dorms 3. A hall lottery listing established Director of Student Residence in on a space available basis. for each of the women's dorms will regard to female housing for next "Take special notice of the fact determine the order of room picks. 

year. 

that this lottery is for order of Finally, for tbose girls choosing The principal question, according room picks only. It has nothing to to reside in Lyons, floor plans of to Mulcahy, was how to determine do with being forced off-campus ;in the hall will be posted in the dorms which women would move to fact only 9 girls have requested to to enable you to see what the dorm 
Lyons, in a manner that would be is like and where the are
live off campus." rooms 
fair to all involved. "The results Girls moving off-campus or situated. from questionnaires sent out to all the girls indicated to us that there is a substantial number of women who want to live in Lyons, so that 
*LOUIE'S BAR* 
no one would be forced to live 

744 n. notre dame
there," said Mulcahy. Women will receive a letter today which outlines the 

Invites you to take a break. procedure of how room picks will be assigned. The girls have two 
Come down and enioy 
choices; they can choose to stay in 

GREAT FOOD... 
WEEKENDS
their present dorm, or they can 

GREAT DRINK...
choose to reside in Lyons. "At this 
TILL ? 
time, girls can move to Lyons only. 
Later, they can pick into one of the 

GREAT COMPANY ! 
Fare10 subieet to change, 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus 
Dan Barrett

Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor 
Executive Editor 

NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos
Lee Gentine 

EDITORIALS: 283-8661
Business Manager Advertising Manager 
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Monday, February 11, 1974 
The SBP Race Setting The Stage 
Each February, The Observer an­nually bemoans the approach of the Student Body President campaign and this year is no different. Today, the SBP election begins as all interested can­didates can pick up their petitions in the Student Government office. 
, 
Before the campaigns even begin though, a few groundrules from The Observer's point-of-view must be stated: 
No member of the editorial board or reporting staff may wear or pass campaign buttons, stickers or other paraphenalia of the candidates. 
No campaign announcements made afterlO:OOpm the day before publications will be covered in the next day's pa­
per. 
All announcements of candidacy for SBP or for the Student Life Council will be covered in the inside pages of the paper. Positions of stories in the paper will be determined by lottery. 
All candidates will be assigned at least two reporters. All election coverage will be coordinated by Tom Drape. 
During the campaign, all caandiidates will receive coverage on the inside pages of The Observer contingent on their campaigning. Wrap-up stories involving all candidates will appear on the front page. 
All candidates will be asked to answer 
a survey drawn up by The Observer's 
editorial board eoncerning issues which 
surround the campus. No candidate must 
answer the survey. The results of the questionnairewill be published during the campaign. 
The Observer will endorse a candidate for SBP. The editorial board will meet with all candidates on Sunday, February 
24. Times and place will be set later. 
The elections of the past two years have been chaotic and frenzied. There is something about this time of year that drives Notre Dame politicos out of the woodwork and onto the quad. With luck, this campaign will be less of a problem than those of the recent past. 
-Jerry Lutkus 

Saving The Juice 
The open letter released Thursday by the University Energy Conservation Committee stresses some rather obvious ways of conserving energy at Notre Dame. But as obvious as they may seem, they are important measures that must be taken to prevent a situation at Notre Dame where stringent energy-saving measures will have to be laid down. 
In addition to students cooperation with the committee's suggestions-turn off lights when not needed; turning off room lights when a room isn't in use; eliminating the use of inessential electrical appliances; and reduced use of energy-consumers such as televisions, stereoes and other high power users-there are other methods to conserve energy here. 
For one, many of the lights which are left on all day and night can be shut off late at night. For example, lights in the hall lavatories can be turned off in the eat:lY morning hours. The hall staffs should not handle this task, by the students in their concern for saving energy should remember to shut off lights when they leave the facilities. 
All in all, anything that the students can do on their own to save energy, serves all of us and it will help to prevent a situation where energy-saving measures have to be dictated. 
-Jerry Lutkus 

~ ~ .... .1-.• 

The Big Sin 
fr. bill taahey 

The thoughloccurred to me lallweek: "Youprobablyshould be grateful the Observer didn'lask for your reactions to the Dillon-Hall Affair." Butthen. inwhaUs a natural tendency when you think something like that, I started to wonder to myself what I might have said. 
Iprobalbywould have commented a bit on the sad-to-sick coverage the event got in the Observer, from Editorials to Letters-to-the-Editor. Some tof the stuff was bad enough to embarrass a high-school junior flunking out of composition class. One column in particular reminded r:'e of a reviewer's remark about Jack Kerouac's novel, On The Road: "That's not writing; that's typing!" 
More importantly, whatever else has been said about the Dillon cas~, it was unfortunate that, for many, it apparently reinforced a feelmg they have that the only moral issue around here is sex. We've had a hang-up on sex in the Catholic church for years. Irish, Puri­tanical, Jansenistic influences have dramatically shaped our at­titudes, although many of us are not aware of it, and many others refuse to acknowledge it. 
I know some will accuse Pe of being "soft on sex"; yet, I will say it anyway: Sex isn't our problem-not our most important one, anyway. Our greatest problem is the more general breakdown in love in our human relationships. The Pisuse of sexuality is just one (albeit extremely important) aspect of this more pervasive problem. 
One can hardly over~mphasize the importance of love. From the very first moment of existence, love is indispensible for survival. To an infant, for example, emotional warmth is as crucial as vitamins and fresh air. We kid a lot about TLC (tender loving care), but people can't live normal lives without it. Deficiency in love causes emotional retardation and even death. How many death certificates issued from old-age homes and one-room apartments could read: "Cause of death­lack of affection and esteem?" 
But love is necessary not just to avoid becoming a corpse; not just for survival, but for ultimate happiness .... survival forever! Salvation r:leans belonging to God; and belonging to God entails responding to his first loving us. Hence His love is basic, and involved in every experience we have of authentic love. 
Obviously, then, the big sin at Notre Dame (not toodifferentfrom any other place where people try to get on with one another) is the failure ro love. Perhaps using the-concept of "hospitality" will help clarify what I'r:1 getting at. Hospitality f.leans saying: "Welcome ... welcome into my life ... on your terms." Hospitality means offering an entrance into your time, concern, cor:1passion, understanding--whatever is the honest need of the other. 
Again and again, the students I speak to emphasize the importance of this notion, especially when they talk about exam,ples of caring or lack of caring on this campus. We see illustrations of the point all the time. At the starr of this present semester, rvery shy •ransfer student was assigned to join two other girls who were occupying a suite in one of the women's dorms. The new girl was well-bred but not well-come; she was treated with coldness, made to feel an intruder into their comfy clique. 
This is the kind of sin that needs to be denounced from the housetops Actions like that are capable of doing more harm to persons rhan r:1any other things around here that seem to capture all the notoriety. I'm speaking about a failure of hospitality that becomes a kind of "assassination" (nver mentioned, by the way,in the Student Manual); I r:1ean the daily killing cutting we can do to one another . We can so easily kill the possibilities for love; we cut each other down, we cut each other off, we cut each other out. 
It seems that every day we are unavoidably caught up in a to-be-Qr­not-to-be sort of decision: Hospitality or Hostility. We're all involved in it; and it manifests itself in large and small ways. Some won't even welcome you to their "hello": the ones who walk the campus paths with their heads thrust down, or who respond to your greeting with a cold, blank stare. Some of us say "welcome," but always on our own rerms.. Like the priest who will welcome you if you really must see him. You feel like you're imposing, and you can almost hear his sign of relief when you leave his room. Or the professor who displays an attitude that says: "You're, welcome to sit in on my lectures and take notes,but don't bother rne outside of class; don't expect me to be in­terested in the rest of your life." Or the student who doesn't welcome you to the real person he is; instead you find you've been welcomed f.lerely to facade, to phoniness, to B.S. 
There is no Welcome sign at the entrance to this campus. That's all 
tight. A sign doesn't mean much. What we need desperately are people who are living signs of welcome. And there are quite a few amund, thank God. They are the ones who offer us the unique kind of welcomewe may need at a particular time. For example: "Welcome ro r:1y ear. You just want to talk? Fine; I'm happy to listen." Or those who welcome us to their unde1·standing or compassion, or who will 
just be with us when that's what we need. 
They are signs of hope in a world filled with so much alienation, at a 
time when we each need to offer our "welcome" to one another. 
ITFOU0/!/5 THAT THE /AI!U, l-eT's fAC£ 11; 5HOt<TA6C HA5 8fC011& PART SCRIBE -0~ CAN'T Or THE 5TATl/S ()tiO -7HE W& /11/ST YE5SIR.
-WAY THINOS NORI1AUY ARE!

REAllY CAU IT A
oVtfl.?! 

T&ti-7H& ANNJUNc&­1Hf 6N&R6Y 
CRISIS ANYMORE. I • Efi!60, THE CR/515 PER 5E­
PR£SSAT M&NTORM&AN, EVERYONE5 : TO MT, JHE ACTliAL­
[ 

ave&. UAK?
()<15151~1 

(}Sf{) 7rJ IT, RI6HT? "" 5TATE OPAtARM-U/()IA/1
ov~fl. .. 
-ISNfJUJ~ I . 

I \ 
Ol'tRA17Ve!
\ 

I 
I 
daanesbury l)arrytrudeau 
Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Night Editor: Maria Gallagher Day Editors: Jim Donathen, Mary Janca Copy Editors: Rick Thues, Terry Keeney Typists: Claire Kelly, Barb Haug, Bill 
Menk, Karen Hinks, Jane Coyle Hal Operator: Phil Orscheln Pictures: Jerome Phillips Night Controller: Howard Halle 


-----------~-----~---­
Monday, February 11, 1974 the observer 
5 

when robert creeley is in town 

the great escape to ryan's daughter 
Allen Ginsberg once commented on the energy of Robert Creeley and his intense desire to know people. When he gets to town, said, Ginsberg, nobody sleeps until he 
is gone. 
"I can't let anybody sleep," says Creeley, "because I don't want to miss anything...! so love the intensity of people that I can't let 
anything  stop  until  it's  literally  
exhaustion."  
In  much  the  same  manner,  Creeley's  

intense poetry compresses vast meanings 

Little Bir:~ Screen 
art ferranti 
Not since 1968 have fans delighted in The Great Escape, long overdue for showing. This excellent film stars Steve McQueen, Jar.1es Garner, Richard Attenborough, Charles Bronson, David McCallum, and Donald Pleasance in one of the most 1hrilling and well-excuted adventure dassics to cor.1e around in a great while. McQueen excells as the baseball throwing "Cooler King" Hilts who leads a motorcycle chase over the mountainsides of war-torn Europe, another sequence worthy enough to 1 ank with the chases of Bullitt, The French Connection. and The Seven Ups. Garner plays the pilot who helps the blind Pleasance and who flies a German trainer plane. Attenborough is the brains behind the 
•unnel escape and who becomes one of the ill-fated "Fifty". The rest all have minor yet distinguishable parts. Based on a true story, the filr.1 centers on what the men go lhrough to dig the tunnel, from the dirt in the trousers to the de-boarded beds to the phoney uniforms. The only problem is that NBC has decided to space it over two nights, tonight and Wednesday both at eight. However, the film has gone through that before and weathers the situation well. 
***** 

On the other hand, CBS presents Ryan's Daughter for its first time complete on Thursday night. The only hitch here is that the effort is wasted. David Lean, who is noted for his epics like Dr. Zhivago and Lawrence of Arabia, fell on his face with this one, not nearly as successful as the others and for good reason. Zhivago was a love story set against the Russian revolution, Lawrence led a war overa whole desert. Holden and Guiness destroyed The Bridge Over the River Kwai with the back­drop being World War II. Those are the types of films that lend to spectacle, not a rathe1· basic love triangle set for the most part in a quiet Irish countryside. The scenery is magnificent but it not only detracts from the film it makes the film appea1· as a travelogue, something you 
into neat, terse phrases, literally exhausting a word for all it is worth. There are no extra words in Creeley's poetry. Every syllable labours towards concise significance. With every bit of the economy and precision of fellow New Englanders like Emily Dickinson, Creeley leads his readers directly to the point. In a poem entitled "The Business" he says: 
To be in love is like g_oing out­
side to see what kind of day 
it is. 

Relationships between people have been the subject matter of a good deal of Creeley's verses. He is proudest of his collection For Love (poems 1950-1960),a series of poems that lets us see a man developing a capacity to love over a ten year span. From this collection comes what is, in some ways, Creeley's most famous poem. Subsequently perverted into the title of that unsuccessful movie, Drive, He Said, "I Know a Man" is another poem about people. 
As I sd to my 
friend, becalJ.'ie I am 
always talking, -John, I 

would see between movies at a theater not in 1he feature itself. The acting is also ex­cellent, but what can you do when you are in 1he shadow of the panorama of it all (which will also not come out as well on the small screened television set). 
Regardless, John Mills (father of Hayley and Juliet) copped a well· deserved Oscar for i1is brilliantly depicted role of the village idiot. Robert Mitchum plays a quiet schoolteacher who marries Sarah Miles and who is scandalized when she has an affair with the crippled British major Christopher Jones. Of course Bl'itish regulars Trevor HHoward, Leo McKern, and Barry Foster are on hand to lend to the spectacle. One fur·ther note, the film has been trimmed to two hours and forty-three minutes from three hours and twelve minutes but it is slotted in a three hour thirty-five minute period beginning at eight. Not only does this Pean a quicker and hence better pace but italso 52 r:1inutes of commercials. Have fun. 
***** 

Dick Van Dyke turns in a dramatic per­formance on a problem with which he is well acquainted in the made-for-TV film The Morning After, about alcoholics. Van Dyke, himself an alcoholic now on the wagon, portrays a writer who hits the bottle causing hirn to ruin his family and his job. The film has been highly acclaimed by the press and highly touted in the material I have received. The catch here is that is 2-3 op­posite The Great Escape. The movie airs Wednesday at seven-thirty on 28. It is your choice. 
***** 

Renee Taylor and Joseph Bologna <who 
gave us the Marlo Thomas special last year 
and "Calucci's Dept.") scripted the film 
Lovers and Other Strangers which 
premieres on television tonight at eight on 
28 also opposite The Great Escape. 
The plot is uneven but the comedy rests in 
the vignetes spotlighting the antics of the 
well-cast actors. Beatice Arthur sd, which was not his 
name, the darkness sur­
rounds us, what 
can we do against 

it, or else, whall we & 
why not, buy a goddanm big car, 
drive, he sd, for 
christ's sake, look 
out where yr going. 

Unfortunately, Creeley did not write the poem to mean that "he" said "drive" but rather the speaker, who suggests buying the . car concludes that suggestion with "drive." In short, the poem's meaning has been altered for readers who connect the phrase with the movie (or Jeremy Larner's novel Drive, He Said from which the movie was 
taken(. 

So much evolved from three short words. One might think nothing could please Creeley more. In his own words he is "f1·ankly selfishly interested in the word­s...in discovering what words can say." 
What do Creeley's words say? Obviously quite a lot. 
Robert Creeley is in town this week. Stop in to the Library Auditorium tonight and listen to his words. 

("Maude") and Richarrd Castellano The 
Godfather) lead the merriment of the film by hating the wedding. Michael Brandon and Bonnie Bedelia play the two intendeds with Gig Young, Anne Jackson, Cloris Leachmab, and Anna Meara as a few of the guests (there is no such thing as a small Italian wedding; I know). The film in­troduced its Oscar winning song "For All We Know" and Castellano's out-of-it-line, "So ... eh, what's the story?" 
***** 
There Was A Crooked Man airs Saturday at eight on NBC. Here Henry Fonda plays a not so honest prison warden to prisoner Kirk Douglas and a motly crew of no-goods. Basically a drama, the plot concerns a prison break in the old west and the $50,000 Douglas had once stolen. It is typical ad­venture stock, good for a couple of diverting hours. Halls of Anger premires Friday at eight on CBS has racial tensions explode as a few white students are bussed into an all black highschool for integration purposes. Calvin Lockhart plays the principal with Jeff Bridges and Rob Reiner ("All in the Family") as two of the white students. Not a bad film at all, it still is quite topical even 
though it was made in 1970, which is too bad. 
You would think that in four years the would would have grown up and this filn. cor.,e out to be a dated period piece. Maybe next time it is shown ... 
***** 
On the made-forTV side The Phantom of Hollywood (originally called The Phantom of Lot 2) terrorizes !he people who are about to sell "Worldwide Studios" tomorrow at eight-thirty on 22. It has an impressive cast with Jack Cassidy Peter Lawford, Peter Haskell, John Ireland, Broderick Crawford, Skye Aubrey, Jackie Coogan, Regis Toomey and Elisha Cook. It has an equally impressive setting, MGM's Lot 2 on which scenes from David Copperfield, 
Singing in the Rain, and The Good Earth 1 atn JO ..uu~!U&Jg qsua,y (1) uaMliU\' 
were filrqed. However, the plot seems to remind r.1e of an old Warner Bros. Porky Pig cartoon. On the soap side Hope Lange (Dick Van Dyke's "wife" on his new show) stars in I Love You, Good-bye, tomorrow also at seven-thirty on 28. Here Miss lange leaves her husband and three kids because she feels she is stagnating at ll.ome in her role as a wife. Talk about rotten and flimsy excuses, however to leave a marriage for that reason is very in now in Hollywood and some of the more left-wing women libbers. Earl Holliman plays her husband and Michael Murphy plays her new love in­
tterest . All in all, tomorrow looks like a good night to book it. 
***** 
The only late movie of any merit is Jack Lemmon's How to zMurder Your Wife tonight at ten-thirty. This hilarious comedy centers on Lemmon, drunk at a bachelor party, who in his stupor, marries Virni Lisi, having popped from the cake. This non-English speaking Italian bombshell wreaks havoc at Lemmon's club with his butler <Terry Thomas), and with his comic strip.The courtroom scene at the movie's conclusion is a classic and should please r-1ale chauvinists everywhere. Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly, and William Holden star in Country Girl, channel 16's Saturday late night entry. Kelly won an Oscar for her role and Crosby turns in a fine performance as a down-and-out performer with one more chance at success. Sunday's late film on 16 is the The Miracle Worker in which Annie Sullivan <Anne Bancroft) teaches Helen Keller <Patty Duke) to cope in a sightless world. This superb film gave Os.cars to both Bancroft and Duke. 
Trivia Questions; What was the name of the comic strip Jack Lemmon drew in How to Murder Your Wife? (2) What was William Shatner's first TV series? 
' ·(uoseas S9-t961 aql U! Slfaah\ &1 pollS&! m ..ardoad 3lfl JO.!{, ((';) : ..su&~!tJ&.IH 

the observer Monday, February 11, 1974 
". ,J ·, 

No word on Hearst heiress' fate 
people who have been robbed must in turn take back what l'ightfullyBerkeley. Calif. <UPH-A crank fathet· of the missing girl, was not the coed. Miss Hearst, 19, female fugitive who claims to be 

letter and a couple of telegrams to at home when the letter arrived. was dragged at night from her part of the SLA celL belongs to them, and take back
the Ra dolph A. Hearst mansion He had been reported earlier townhouse apartment near the There was speculation that Sunday ,·aised brief hopes of a sitting by the phone hours on end Univet·sity of California campus by Hearst printed the letter because what they need in order to sur­
vive."

bt·eak in the kidnapping of awaiting any word from the kid­three persons a week ago. te SLA demanded all its com­newspi! per heiress Patricia napers--thought to be the With commando-like precision, r:>unications be presented in the Hearst. 19. They were soon Pysterious radical Syrnbionese they beat her fiance, Steven Weed, press. 
Lerum wins

Liberation Army. 26, and a neighbor dragged Miss Reportedly written by Nancy A far. lily spokesman showed the He had left earlier in the day Hearst, clad only in a bathrobe, to Ling Perry, 26, the letter was 'egis ·ed letter to newsmen "for a drive," a spokesman said. a waiting car, locked her in the pl'inted under a banner head-line in 
dashed. 
Dean's prize

shortly after a postman drove up Unofficial reports said a 1runk and sped away firing shots at the Sunday Examiner. It was a r.,idP<; ning in three-wheeled reporter on the family's randor:1. ranbling discourse on alleged A third-year law student at the
Three days later, a letter was injustices against the lower classes 
dciive'. 1ruck to the home in newspaper, the San Francisco University of Notre Dame, Nor­nearb.. Hillsborough, handed it Examiner, visited the house before received by a local radio station by the military establishment r:,an J. Lerum, Jr., has been 'hrou.·l rhe door to a woman in the daylight, then left. His destination from the Symbionese Liberation which it said had taken over the 
named winner of the Dean's Award 

house and left. was not known and it was not Arr:1y \SLAl. nation through "nonviolent in recent Moot Court competitionTlw .etter had a Seattle post­known whether Hearst ac­A credit card authorities said revolution." 
of tne the campus. He attendedbelonged to the r:1issing girl was " ... the government is now in the

'"a' k and contained a rambling cor:,panied him. The FBI and Brebuef Preparatory School hand ..nitten discourse against police agencies involved in the. six­enclosed. The letter claimed the 'apid and steady process of 
before enrolling at Notre Dame forSLA was responsible for the kid­removing the means of survival

weal'' . families. There was no day-old kidnaping reported his undergraduate and law degree. 
"nothing new." The FBI said it naping and said Randolph Hearst fror.1 the lower class and giving
cor:>r . nt about the discourse -Lerum and a fellow student
knew nothing of the registered was a "corpm·ate enemy of the rhese benefits to the middle class
t·ontl'll' of the telegrams. 
served as counsel for a union group 

ietter. people." in an effort to rally support from
Th ·e FBI agents, carrying brief in a hypothetical case involving arhem," the letter said.
case~. entered the mansion shortly Patricia's parents had waited Hearst, president and editor of housing addition that was rejected
since Thursday for demands from the Examiner, ordered the text of "And the government is
befo, L' noon. 
by a community because of a Hea,·st, son of newspaper tycoon the para-r.Jilitary terrorist group a 3,000 word letter written to the rernoving these r:1eans of survival reputed adverse environmentalfror:1 the people; then naturally the 

Wiili<>r:l Randolph Hearst and which claimed to have abducted newspaper Jan. 17 by a young impact non-resident use would have on its water and sewage 
GOP leaders plan 'mini-convention':t.;~:~~,:·~.~~::r.·'..~ 
petition were Justice William H. 

CHICAGO <UPI) -Republi­president, was scheduled to infot·native and important Ray C. Biiss said, "We at·e Rehnquist of the U.S. Supreme Court, Circuit Judge Myron Bright 
cans fror:i 13 states will attend host an evening reception R('publican events of the year," planning an upbeat conference of the U.S. Court of Appeals, and 
a "r.,ini convention" in Chicago Ma1·ch 29 and Rockefeller and with strong er:1phasis on the 
said John C. McDonald, Iowa Chief Justice C. William O'Neill of 
next r:1onth to weigh the party's Reagan were scheduled to 1her:1e of 'iooking forward.' Our the Ohio Supreme Court. 
post-Watergate election pros­deliver speeches March 30. state chairman and co-chair-panel of speakers and workshop 
The Dean's Award was pects and test three possible "This conference should Pan of the conference. ieaders wiH be the top r:1en in established in 1950 by former Dean contendNs for the 1976 presi­prove to be one of the r:1ost Ohio National Committeeman 1he country in their fields." Clarence Manion of the Notre Dame Law SchooL A cash ·award
dential nor:1ination, it was The conference is planned as accornpanying the award is made
announced Sunday. "a ).'athering of the party
Record 84 days in space 
available by A. Harold Weber of

Five hundred party leaders .eadet·ship to stimulate interest South Bend, a 1922 graduate of the 
on 'he state and county level and ).'enerate a head of steam school.
'culmination of a dream'
were expected for the 1974 <ooking ro the 74 elections," "Midwest Republican Leader­Biiss said. 
STUDY IN 

ship Conference" March 29-30, Michigan State Chairman
lor Skylab 3 astronauts 
GUADALAJARA, MEXICO

William F. McLaughlin said the National Chair·man George SAN DIEGO, Calif. <UPI) -dockside ceremony, the three conference would give party 
sponsors said. 
Fully accredited University of Arizona GUADALAJARA SUMMER

Bush was expected to deliver a The Skylab 3 astronauts, calling astronauts sat in chairs and f.ler:>bers a chance to personal­
SCHOOL offers July I·August 10,

state of the national party •heir record 84 days in space Pach spoke over a r:>icmphone. iy Peel and chat with the early 
1974 courses in ESL, bilingual educa­address ro the conference. 'he "culr.1ination of a dream," "Your faces look beautiful, presidential hopefuls. 
tion, Spanish, anthropology, art, folk 11 could be viewed as a "get set foot on solid ground Sunday 'he whole world looks beauti­Ohio, Hiinois, Iowa, Indiana, 
dance and folk music, geography, government and history. Tuition

•ogether ro see if they can pick as heroes of r:1an's longest ful," said Pogue. Michigan, Kansas, Minnesota, 
$170: room and board in Mexican

•hemseives up" after Water-voyage beyond the earth's "The longer the mission Missouri, Nebraska, North 
home $215. For brochure write: 

L'ate, a spokesman said. 1each. W('nt, rhe more striking it Dakota, South Dakota, West 
International Programs, 413 New "W(''re not here for a post "The r:>ission we flew was the became," said Gibson, the only Virginia and Wisconsin were 
Psychology, University of Arizona, Portem," said Fred Bird, cuiPination of a dream," civilian on the r:'ission. "I'm announced participants in the 
Tucson. Arizona 85721. conference press director. astronaut Gerald P. Carr said proud to be an Anerican, proud confer·ence . ''P('ople who r.'ay have been in welcor:1e-home ceremonies of the effort the Ar.lerican 
•r"""""--------------·
feeling blue r:>ay find it's not as· aboard rhe flight deck of the people have Pade, and proud of 
AN EVENING WITH 
bad as they thought. They can USS New Orleans. 1he spirit of the Ar:1erican L'et ideas about how to "We proved that space is not people." 
Rod

..rganize. jusr a place to be relegated to Vice Adr:1iral Robert S. "Down in Greene County, r.>achines or robots. Sky lab has Salzer, comr:1ander of the 'hey didn't break and enter and iaid 1n rest that theory." Pacific Fleet Amphibius Force, 
McKuen 

'hey didn't do a lot of things. Looking fit and trim, CarT welcomed the astronauts back 
LIVE, IN PERSON, WITH ORCHESTRA
Bu' 'hey can elect a states and fellow astronauts Edward ro 1he energy crisis. attorney iike they've always G. Gibson and William R. "Once you get released, try ct11ne." Pogue greeted a crowd of 2,500 and fill 'er up at the gas 
St>n. Charles H. Percy, R-Iil., weii wishers who stood below stations and you'll have a f01 r:1('r New York Gov. Nelson 1he carrier docked at North personal appreciation of the R••ckefelier and California Gov. Island Naval Air Station. energy problems," he said. R1·naid Regan were announced The spacemen then departed The astronauts, who spent as headiiners. for flight to Houston aboard a lhree days aboard the aircraft 
Pe1 cy, who said in a speech Pcdical!y equipped DC9 jet for carrier after splashing down in Friday he was "seriously a reunion with their wives. the Pacific, were declared in'erested" in running for During the brief, 15-r:linute physically fit. 
r~----~--~~------------------~~~------------~ 
Valentine's Day Classified Ads 

IN CONCERT· FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 22 • 8 PM!
Tell your Valentine and the world 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM •SOUTH BEND, IND.
how you really feel 

RESERVED SEATS $4.50-5.50-6.50 
Now on sale at Morris Auditorium Box Office, or
Ads will be taken in 
by mail. Send payment with self-addressed, stamped envelope to: McKuen, Morris Aud.,
the Observer office 
211 N. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
•II 5 pm 


,Special Notre 'Dame-St. Mary's Discount! 
$1.00 off each ticket. Purchase discounted tickets at Morris Auditorium Box Office!
Today tI 
~-·-·-·_~.~_r.______T~o~m~o~r~ro~w~fr~o~m~l~O~a~m~t~o~S~.~m~.~---~-~~~•~.,~.~.,-.-.-.~.-.------------~~ 
• J 
.. 
• o • o 0 • 0 I I \ ' ' I ' ' I t \ ~ \
'.• 
\. 

---~------~------~---~ ~--------~~-­
--~~--~~----------------------~ 



Lefty, ND remain at 99 
(continued from page 8) whistler rebounded to Conroy. Pat nudged the puck into the net at 13:10. 
In between, Curry scored a goal of his own with feeds from Jim Augustine and Ian Williams at 
11:51. The assist for Williams was his 200th career point, joining him with two other Notre Damers, Eddie Bumbacco and John Noble, in college hockey's elite grouping of sc1wers. 
In the third period, Tom Ross cut the score to 6-3 for State, but the Irish added the last two goals for the 8-3 final. Curry and Walsh fed Clark Hamilton for a goal at 9:55, and Eddie Bumbacco's nice effort at 14:47 ended up behind Carr. 
Mark Kronholm, who did play excellently all weekend despite the losing effort on Saturday, kept the Irish in the game Friday with several key saves when the score was 3-2. He r:1ade 51 saves all weekend, eight less than Carr, a pror:1 ising freshman. 
Eddie Bumbacco (left) and lan Williams, two thirds of Notre
It was indeed a sweet victory on 
Dame's 200-point Club, celebrate the laHer's goal in Saturday's t'hird 
F1·iday night, but perhaps too 
period. The celebration was shortlived as the Spartans won, 4-2. 
sweet. For once again, the sweetness turned sour with portunities are becoming scarcer ND's 18th keepsSaturday's defeat. This time, for Notre Dame. Although there is however, the defeat was even more still tirne to r:1ake the playoffs, 
sour· than others before it. For the Paybe even the top four, it will Duke from 1,000 Irish, time is running out. continue ticking away. After this (continued from page 8) Eal"lier this season, there were weekend's series at Minnesota, 
junior from New Brunswick New

opportunities to bounce back there will be only 240 minutes of Jersey has put on quite a show of tomorrow. But now those op-hockey left for the Irish. 
late. With 14:18 to go in the ball game Saturday he took a fast break pass 

Three victories keep 
from Martin, slid down the lane, and with Blue Devils all over him flipped in a iayup. The crowd gave him a standing ovation.

IV icers untarnished 
"I didn't know the ovation was by John Fineran Whiteside, Karsnia, Wurst, Bossy for r:1e. I just figured the crowd ' · · "t and Locke scoring single markers. was applauding the team," ex-
Notre Dame s JUIDor varsl Y plained Gary. "Our fans are the 
hockey team remained in a select Dave Caron, a freshman, ll h
sparkled in the nets on Saturday, greatest,though. You can te t e 
group nf undefeated squads on difference when we go on the road. 
campus (football and fencing the allowing the one goal and making I would say theyPakeat least a ten 
others) this weekend with a trio of 27 saves. On Sunday, he and point difference in the outcome of 
victories over Michigan State 8-2 McCurdy split the playing time, the ballgame." 
and the highly-regarded Windsor Thom allowing two goals while ~ But if the Irish fans are worth 
(Qnt.) Jr. B. Royals (8-1 and 12-3). Caron allowed one in the third 
· d th period. ten points at home, South 
The three wms ma e e JV Carolina's partisan rooters are 
skaters 12-0 for the season with a Johnson's nine goals for the worth 20 in Columbia. And that's 
return. match at Michigan State weekend gave him 21 for the where Notre Dame will be next 
scheduled for Thursday. season, by far the team's best weekend, at the University of 
On Friday afternoon Warren <Schintzius and Howe trail with 14 Snuth Carolina to battle the thir-
Schintzius, Ray Johnson and Rick each>. McCurdy has a neat 2.5 teenth-ranked Gamecocks. 
Locke each scored twice as the goals-against, but Caron is not far Meanwhile, however the Irish 
linemates Irish defeated the behind with 2.7. The defense of must pl·epare for Fordham in 
previously unbeaten Spartan Bossv.. Curry, Rick Martinello Madison Square Garden on 
junior varsity. Defensemen Dave and Dennis Godin must also Thursday night. And Duke, they'll 
Bossy and Lew Curry (Steve's receive mention for their steady just have to try a little harder to 
brother) also tallied for Notre performance over the weekend. In get their thousand. 

Clark Hamilton, Brian Walsh and some Michigan State players watch the puck with determination. The Spartans and Irish were equally determined last weekend in spliHing their series in the A.C.C. 
Bridge Players Duplicate Bridge 
EVERY MONDAY 7:30pm FLANNER CARD ROOM 25' Brush up for the spring trophy game! 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES Found Porche keys in Faculty 
lot. Hayes -Healy Rm. 254. Need rock band to volunteer for 'he retarded. Call Mast 234-WANTED 2101. 
House mate to share 2 BR We need people who can farm, house Foster Ave. (off Angela). speak Spanishor French, teach 234-8314. English or Math, have degrees in history, government, Need 4 people to share house sociology, psychology, coun­next year. CaII 233-9231. seling, education, or science. See Vista-Peace Corps in the Broken 10-spd. bike or parts library Feb. 11-15. 'hereof. Chris 8173. 
GAl N career experience FOR SALE employers demand. We need degrees in business, low, ar­'63 Plymouth. Power, new chitecture, economics, and 'ires good condition. Best engineering. See Vista-Peace ,,ffer. 8132. C.>rps in the library Feb. 11:15. 
National championship LOST AND FOUND beanbag chair $18.95, lowest 
price in town Order at Senior Found silver wire rimmed bar or call 7521. glassesin Rm. 224 of Engineering Bldg. Claim in CE Pinball machine. Cheap and ~apt. Dr. Linger. esciting. Call Joe 233-0147.
Dame, and snphomore goaltender one stretch on Friday, the Thom McCurdy played brilliantly, blueliners killed-off over seven ******************** if. turning away 31 other State shots. r:1inutes of penalties. On another, : * 
Saturday and Sunday af-they stopped the Spartans when a * * 
rernoons' star was Johnson, who, teammate received a five-minute * SAN FRANcIsc 0 * 
scored seven goals, four on the major for fighting. ~ : Sabbath, as the Irish humiliated The Irish JV skaters now only * * the Royals, frontrunners in the have three games remaining ~ Southern Ontario League. between them and their first un-: ARCH 8 TO MARCH 18 ~ 
Johnson's three goals on Saturday defeated season. In addition to * M * were joined by single tallies off the Thursday's encounter in East * * sticks of Bill Guisti, Allen Karsnia, Lansing, Notre Dame has a two-~ $165.0 0 .I n c Iu des : Mark Faron, Tom Wurst and game set with the Glenwood Gulls ~ * Schintzius. onFebruary 22 and 23 intheA.C.C.: * round trip airfare · United Airlines DC-8 * 
On Sunday, Dave Hnwe had two Faceoffs for both Glenwood games ·,._ • VI a . . ,._ goals with Mike Smith, Bill are at 3 p.m. '* * round tnp bus transportation for South Bend -Chtcago: 
:also available by further arrangement: * 
Senior Class Fellow 
: * accomodations at the Hotel Mark Twain in downtown:* special reduced rates: * : double at $8.00 per person :
SENIORS•••• 
: triple at $6.70 per person :
"Show Some Pride" 
: * optional tours in & around the San Francisco Bay Region: ~ LIMITED SEATS AVAILABLE ~ 
NOMINATE THE PERSON 
.., OF YOUR CHOICE 
* ~ESERVATIONS AND DEPOSIT BEING TAKEN MONDA't4* iFEBRUARY II THROUGH TH~RSDA Y.FEBRUARY 14 IN: i 
•1LA FORTUNE at 12 to 1 om·and from 7 to 8 pm : in student govt. office. 
Petitions available 
~ARCHITECTURE BUILDING (department office) . ! 
* $20 deoosit reauired' non-refundable from 9 am to 5 pm*Questions, call Jerry 232-3876 
* --~ 
·----------------------------------~-~.l~~~~~~~~2ll~:.~~~~0l~ii.GJ~i************************** 
Monday, February 11, 1974
the observer 
NO's 18th win keeps Duke at 999 
by Greg Corgan Durham and recorded their first Ask Lefty Sn1ith; or better yet, win ever against Duke. They also ask Duke's head basketball coach 
did it without the services of star­ting guard Dwight Clay, who wasNeill McGeachy. A milestone is still suffering from a sprained
alw.ays hard to reach. For the past two weeks the Blue 
ankle suffered against LaSalle. "Clay wanted to play," said Irish 
Devils have needed but one victory to record their 1,000th collegiate 
head coach Digger Phelps, "but we basketball win, but like Maryland, 
didn't want him to. So we saw him in the game for a couple of
North Carolina State, and Wake Ftll'est before the Irish weren't 
r.1inutes saw he was favoring the ankle ~nd knew he wasn't per­about to iet it happen. 
With a second-half outburst in formi~g at 100 per cent. We have a lot of faith in Ray Martin,so I took 
which they outscored the Devils 17­2, the Irish notched victory number Dwight out." 18 in convincing fashion, 87-68, "I had to give it a try," added 
Saturday afternoon before yet Clay. "But it was-obvious f~om the another capacity crowd of 11,345 at sideline that I was favormg the 
ankle so coach took me out. Ray's
the ACC. 
In the process Notre Dame a good ballplayer and he's capable avenged last year's 86-74 loss in of starting, and he did a good job. 

The Irish Eye 

Maybe it was just a fantasy, or maybe Mark Crow knew more than he was telling. . 
Just 18, and out of high school only two months, Crow was do.mg wh~t young basketball players often do during the. summer follo:ovmg their senior years. He was spending his afternoons m the gymnasiUm where he'd played his years of high school bas~etball. 
Solliettim he played four-on-four, sometimes one:m-one, but m?stly .he played by himself, trying to sharpen the skills wh.Ich Duke Umversity scouts knew he possessed when they offered him a full basketball scholarship. Crow treated the offer from the Bl~e Devils wi.th ~e_spect­you always do if you're a schoolboy star from Richmond, VI:gmia, ~nd the Altantic Coast Conference comes calling--and as he practiced durmg those long, muggy summer afternoons, he sometimes imagined what r.1ight happen during the coming season. 
"All right," he'd say, as he worked one-on-one against a smaller op­ponent, "Crow drives into the lane against Shum~te. He stops and shoots." (At that point, without fail, the ball would np through the net.) "He scores and Duke is back out in front." 
But as often happens, Mark Crow's fantasies did not quite ~ive :ovith the realities of the Blue Devil's 73-74 basketball schedule. Commg mto last Saturday's game with theirish, Crowhad earned himself a spot on J?uke_'s travelling team, but had accomplished little else. !le .has s.een time m four of Duke's 18 games, had scored three field goals m five tnes, and had tossed in a pair of free throws for a rather unspectacular 2.0 average. 
It wasn't the sort of scoring which figured to earn Mark Crow a lot. of playing time against Notre Dame. Nor was it the sort of average which figured to tempt into driving the lane against ND's John Shumate. 
And yet there he was on Sat~rday afternoo~, ~nt~ring the game as a substitute for Chris Redding with 12:34 remammg m the second half. True the game was already out of reach--the Irish had a 62-37 lead--and true both teams would shortly start subbing freely, but during those few f.lin~tes in the second half, Mark Crow's summer-time fantasy crystallized into real, live, recorded in the box-scor~ fact. . 
For those few minutes, Mark Crow was playmg agai!lst Shum.ate, Brokaw, Dantley, and Paterno, and for those fe"': mmutes thmgs proceeded just about as Mark Crow had imagined back m July. 
The 6-7, 195 pound freshman never g~t a chance to go one-on-one against the Big Shue--and that's probably JUSt as w~ll, as far as t~e sur­viva\ of dreams and fantasies is concerned-but he did get to try his hand against the rest of ND's front line. And during the 12 and o.ne-half r.1inutes that he was in the ball game, Mark Crow's hand was hot mdeed. 
He hit his first shot a wide-open jumper from the right corner, to make it 65-39. He hit his s~cond shot, a turn-around in the lane against Adr.ian Dantley to r.1ake it 67-43, and he hit his third and fourth sh~ts, a pair of long-distance bombs-the last from the corner--to make It 73-49. 
(His fifth and final shot was rejected by Dantley, and he ended the game on a sour note, by fouling Billy Drew with 0:04left, but such things don't count when you're trying to make summer-time fantasies come true.) 
How did it feel, to come off the bench and play so well against Notre Dar.1e? "I didn't really think about it,"he said, "after I hit that first one. But you know you have to do that-you have to throw that first one up." 
Well then how would he compare Notre Dame, the nation's third-ranked college basketball team, to the perennial strong-boys in the Atlantic Coast Confrence--teams like N.C. State, Maryland, and North Carolina-teams Crow has had a chance to observe closely during the first two-thirds of the current cage campaign. 
"It's hard to compare," he said, "but I think you <ND) could play in the ACC <Atlantic Coast Conference). I was impressed with the strength of Shumate and Dantley, and I don't really think ACC officiating would hamper their style of play. , . 
"There's one thing you have to remember about the ACC, though, said Crow, smiling. "And that's that no matter whatyoudo 10 us here, we're always going to get you on our home court." . 
But it works the other way around, too. Last year, the Insh travelled to 
Durham, N.c.•.to play the Blue Devils, and were. sound!~ thrashed, 8~-74. But this year It was Notre D~me's turn to enJOY the down-~ome a~­vantage, and the Irish enjoyed 1t thoroughly, as they po~ted t~eir 18th wm of the season against one loss and kept Duke's all-time VIctory mark 
stagnant at 999. And not even Mark Crow could do anything about that. But for a while there, it didn't really matter. For a while Mark Crow 
~. was.Joe Namath, doing exactly what he said he would, and doing it with a flair all his own. It doesn't happen often, particularly against Notre Dame, but this time it did. But then, maybe it wasn't a fantasy at all. Maybe Mark Crow knew all along. 

But I'm sure it'll be better by the timewe get to New York onThurs­
day." 
What the Irish may have lacked 
with the absence of Dwight, they 
certainly made up for with the 
performances of Adrian Dantley 
and John Shumate. The freshman 
foward and junior pivotman 
combined for 52 points, 27 for 
Dantley and 25 for "Shu,"including 
12 of the 17 in that early second half 
spurt. 
"In the second half Notre Dame 
had just too many three-point 
plays," noted McGeachy. 
"Shumate was getting maybe five 
follow-ups on a missed shot." 
Until that second half, though, 
the Irish margin was not quite so 
comfortable although by virtue of 
ten unanswered points in the last 
three minutes of the first period, 
ND held a 39-27 halftime lead. 
But as the second stanza got 
underway the Irish began to play 
"Digger Phelps" style. 
"Basketball is a game of 
spurts," offered Digger. "You've 
got to get your team to score those 
six, eight, ten points in a row. 
That's the way I coach. I'm not 
worried about shooting per­
centages and all that, but getting 
that big offensive spurt." 
That "spurt" came with 17:16 
left to play and the Irish in front 43­
33. Five minutes later the Irish were out on top 65-37 and the Blue Devils found that 1,000 mark just that r.1Uch more elusive. 

Adrian Dantley, though not a practicing exorcist, scored 27 points"Notre Dame has a lot better and had 15 rebounds Saturday against Duke--medicine enough to keeppeople than they did last year," the Blue Devils from posting their lOOOth victory.offered McGeachy. "I felt they 
pressing, running, rebounding, and day today 02 points), but I'mhad five of the best players in the we did a super job. The team has a with more
country last year, but this year, playing a little con­
lot of confidence now. Just look at fidence. The post-season tour­with Dantley, Paterno, and Martin, 
our 18-1 record." nament is in the back of my mind, they have the depth they need. 
Gary Brokaw echoed those and I don't think I have played upNotre Dame is very well coached, 
sentiments. to r.1y potential as yet."
they were ready to play, and they "Confidence builds as the season Whether that's true or not, thestayed loose." 

goes on and we get that momen­
"We did a great job in the second 
(continued on page 7)

tum," offered Brok. "I had an off
half," added Phelps. "We were 

Inconsistency again hurts icers as Spartans gain series split 
by John Fineran 

Notre Dame had the better of the 
Friday night, Notre Dame didWill the real Notre Dame hockey play, and certainly the better of the play its own game. The Irish team please skate forward? A game's opportunities. In the first seer.1ed content to let the Spartans question which has perturbed the period, Notre Dame outshot comr.1it their penalties, and oneIrish icers all season long has Michigan State, 11-4. With a little Irish player, Steve Curry, tookagain given their opponents solace. luck, the Irish could have had a advantage of those penalties

Michigan State became the latest couple of goals. The Spartans, with his blistering slapshot fromWCHA squad to have this feeling, however, took a 1-0 first-period the point.
as the Spartans gained a weekend lead at 15:14 on John Sturges' 35­Curry's shot resulted in six of the split with Notre Dame, winning foot slapshot from the slot. Per­eight Irish goals, and the seniorSaturday 4-2 after losing 8-3 Friday plexing. 
defenseman and tri-<:aptain set a

night in the A.C.C. The tempo picked up in the new game-high for assists (five) in It has been this type of season for second period, and the Irish the victory.
Notre Dame. The Irish look so seemed more concerned in playing Notre Dame worked hard forgood, so devastating when win­State's rough-and-tumble game their 3-0 first period lead. Ricning. But when the chance than their own. Hence, the Schafer opened the scoring at 6:54presents itself to finally begin a Spartans scored three times to when his wristshot beat a screenedwinning st1·eak, Notre Dame Notre Dame's one. 
Carr. With powerplay advantage, always seems to fall. Bill Cullen, Steve Colp scored twice for Curry and defense partner, BillPeggy Cass, Gene Rayburn and Michigan State, the first on an Nyrop, passed the puck back andKitty Carlisle would indeed find it errant Irish pass in the defensive forth before the latter's slapperdifficult to determine which Notre zone at 5:27. His second came beat Can cleanly at 12:43. RayDame hockey team is real. Hence, when he faked Mark Kronholm DeLorenzi then scored an un­Notre Dame's record of 12-15-1 (9-behind the net, and with the Irish pardonable (for State) last-minute12-1 in the WCHAl. goaltender slow to cover, Colp goal at 19:19 after some nice

You have to credit the Spartans stuffed it in at 15:22. 
secondary effort by linemate Patfor coming back to win Saturday. Brendon Moroney gave Michigan Conroy. 

. But, were they really the winners? State its last goal when he worked Daryl Rice r.1ade personalThey sure didn't play like winners the puck loose from Kronholm and 
amends for his teammates'

in r.,any aspects. State did, shot it into the net at 18:27. That r.1istake with two goals to cut thehowever, keep its poise, something r.1ade the score 4-1 State, Notre score to 3-2. His first came in the , Notre Dame failed to do. Dame's only goal coming at 13:15 opening r.Jinute of the second
when freshman Brian Walsh 
period, and the second was anFB conditioning whizzed a slapshot past State's individual effort as Rice skated the goaltender, Gary Carr. 

length of the ice to beat Kronholm 

• Ian Williams had the only score 
1 • • • at 8:22.
Physical condihomng for those of the third period when he But then Curry went to work.
i interested in spring football grabbed his own rebound and slid His slapshot four seconds afterpractice is scheduled to begin the puck behind Carr at 12:36. The Uve Drews delayed the game forshortly, the football office an­Irish had other oportunities in the State was deflected by DeLorenzinounced Friday. All students period, including three powerplay at 9:59. Another powerplayinterested in participating should advantages, but either a great culminated at 13:10 when Curry'sattend the meeting thisafternoon,at save by Carr, an errant bouncing 
4 p.m., in the auditorium of llhe puck or their own mistakes (which (continued on page 'l) 
Athletic and Convocation Center. inc[~~d numerous offtlides hurt 


