OD The Inside 
Taverns warned 
•.. pg 3 
Calendar Poll 
... pg 5 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 44 
New act will open students' records 
by Gregg Bangs Staff Reporter 
College students throughout the country will soon be able to have total access to their personal records and datiL A new section which was added to the "Educatiomil Amendments of 1974" by Senator James Buckley (Cons.­
N.Y.) will also open high school records to parents November 19. 
Senator Buckley articulated the intent of the act as restoring "parental rights and to protect privacy," among other things according to special r~port _on the subject submitted by the National Association of College and Umversity At­torneys. Buckley stated the Act could accomplish this by 1) insuring that "parents have the right of access to their children's school records," 2) preventing "the abuse and improper disclosure of such records and persona] data on students and their products" and 3) requiring "parental consent before such records are disclosed to most third parties." 
The reportpointedout that although "the language of section 438 specifically refers to access rights by parents, section ~38(d) p~ovid~ th~t ~henver a student has attained eighteen years of age, or IS attendmg an Institution of post­secondary education the permission or consent required of and the rights ac­corded to the parents of the student shall thereafter only be required of and accorded to the student." 
The report acknowledged that the original intent of the act was good, but that many problems are brought up. One objection was that the act gives students access to all existing records. Included among these records are letters of recommendation for admissions which were solicited from third parties with an explicit commitment that they would be confidential. 
The new Act forces educational institutions to decide whether they want to go through hundreds of thousands ~f student file_s to dest~oy certaiJ?-recor~ (Such as recommendations) or, despite the commitment given to third parties and their rights, making the records available to st~dents. . . 
"Before this law came up, we were under a strict commitment to retam the confidentiality of third party recommendations," said James Roemer, general counsel to the University on legal requirements. "However we have to comply with this law and open up the files to the students. I think that future reco~­mendations will be less candid, less honest and less valuable to everybody m­volved," he continued. · 
Another aspect of this act that might prove troublesome accorf:Iing. to the report, is a number of ambiguities that should be correc~~ by legisla~ve ac­tion. One of these ambiguities is the term "any and all official records files and data." 
The report asserted that this term can be given a number of meanings in varying institutional contexts. For instance, does the term cover notes of a dean or a professor after he has talked with a student? Is it intended to override common law privileges such as attorney-client relationships? 
The act also requires an educational institution to provide "hearings for students to challenge any record they consid~r inaccurat~ or misleading." 'lbe report asks if a student could ask for a hearmg to question a mark he got ona 
paper. 
In the same context if a teacher writes in an evaluation that a student shows little creativity in his 'work, does the institution have to offer a h~ring on the issue of the student's creativity? In short, the report asked, "what IS the scope of the right to a hearing?" . . 
"I personally believe there will be a lot of repercussiOns because the law IS vague," David L. Kil, Assistant Re~is_trar commented. . 
"This law was made to be beneficial to students and their parents, but because of its vagueness, I think it could turn out to be detrimental. I definitely think it should be made more specific to help all involved," he commented. 
The report also asserted that the act "appears to have consequences that the Congress may not have intended." One example of this. is !hat stud~nts who are receiving financial aid would have access to confidential information, such as lists of assets and liabilities and tax returns, concerning their parents. The 
right of privacy of the parents is affected by this law. 
"I think that many parents might be concerned with l;his_aspe~t of the Ia~,'' 
observed Kil. "If they don't want anybody to see their fmancial record, _m­
cluding their sons or daughters for some reason, they can do absolutely nothing 
about it. I think that aspect is wrong for it is infringing on parents' rights," Kil 
continued. 
Parents could also conceivably receive no information from a post-secondary 
institution about their children without the children's consent, even if the 
student is under eighteen years old. 
A further consequence would be that students receiving psychiatric care 
would have access to the psychiatrists' records. Both Kil and Roemer thought 
that this aspect would prove to be a dangerous issue. . 
Prior to this act institutions could protect students by refusmg to turn over 
highly confidentiai information even if the student had given consent if this 
information could invade his privacy. With the passing of this act, credit 
bureaus, prospective employers, governmental agen~ies conducting sec~ty 
clearances and other organizations could no now require students to obtam all 
their records (financial, disciplinary, psychiatric, evaluations, etc.) and turn 
them ever. The report stated that this breech of privacy could not be com­
batted, because it is legal under this new act. 
The University has forty-five days after the November 10 enacti!Ient datE: to 
comply with the newly-passed law. However, both Roemer and Kil would like 
to see the enactment date pushed back while studies of the program are 
started. 
"I think that the act should be made more specific for the students' sake," 
commented Kil. 
The National Association of College and University Attorneys agreed that the 
act should be postponed for the reasons given above. The report proposed tl_lat 
despite the recognition of the problems to which it is addressed, the effective 
date of the "Family and Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 be changed 
to next year to allow time for hearings." . · 
Roemer said that the university "would do our best to abide by the law, but would like to see that the commencement date of the law postponed so there might be hearings made that would come up with appropriate modifications. •· 

Friday, November 8, 1974 


Observer Insight 
ND oll-caxnpus students harrassed by burglaries 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 

Gene Laurich is a senior student at Notre Dame in Arts and Letters. He lives with three other N.D. seniors in a house at 601 Sherry Drive about ten blocks from campus. They pay $195 of rent per month. 
In the two months since schoo( began Laurich and his roommates have been burglarized three times. On Sept. 24 Laurich left his house at 1:55 to make a 2:00 ap­pointment, leaving the house vacant. At 2: 15 one of his roommates returned and found the windows broken; the color T.V., eight stereo speakers, two turn tables, two amplifiers, and one set of stereo headphones missing. Laurich and his roommates were burglarizedagain on Sept. 26 and Oct. 24. 
Gene's story is a very common one to off­campus students living near campus, especially in off-campus residence section 10 the area bounded by Madison, Hill, Edison, and Rockne streets. 
Fr. Talarida, Director of Student Housing statf:(l that in this section there have been 25 burglaries and three robberies just within the 111onth of October. 
Net....... 11etl111 I, 7, I, and 19, (the rest of the map) have had a total of 36 burglaries and 11 robberies within October. The worth of the stolen goods averaged about 400 dollars per theft. 
Laurich and his roommates would like to move out of their present residence. "It is destroying my studies," stated Laurich. "How can you think about the paper 
you are writing, if you are not sure your typewriter will be there when you get home." Laurich's. landlord, however, will not 
release Laurich and his roommates from their contract. He has fulfilled as a proprieter, every obligation of the contract. 
After the second he replaced the window glass with wooden planks which the burglars kicked in. "At present we are negotiating with him for iron bars in the windows," Laurich said. 
Because their landlord has fulfilled every demand of the contract, the students have no legal grounds to pursue in seeking a release from their lease. If they were to leave the 601 Sherry Street residence, they would still have to pay the rent for the remaining year. 
There are a number of things being initiated by the Student Housing office to help remedy situations for off-campus students, like Gene Laurich's. The Housing Office is trying to compile a list for the South Bend Police of all the houses occupied by students in the 6,7, 8, 19, and 10 sections. 
"If the police can single out which houses are occupied by students, they can watch them more closely especially during breaks," stated Tallarida. He urged students living in these sections to report their house numbers to the Housing Office. 
The Housing Office is also working on a project to compile a list of the license num­bers of the cars expected to frequent the in­dividual student houses in the 6, 7, 8, 19, and 10 areas. 
(continued on page 5) 

---------------~--------­
2 
the observer Friday, November 8, 1974 

warld briefs 
MOSCOW UPI -The Soviet Union trundled weapons from its nuclear arsenal across Red Square Thursday to mark 57 years of Communism and Defense Minister Andrei A. Grechko called for "vast efforts" to match a military buildup in the West. 
NEW HAVEN UPI -Yale University law professor Alexander Bickel, one of the nation's outstanding constitutional law experts whose opinions were cited during the Watergate scandals, died Thursday at his home. He was 49. 
LA PAZ, BOLIVIA UPI -President Hugo Banzer personally took command of loyalist troops Thursday and crushed an armyrebellion in the city of Santa Cruz de Ia Sierra in southeastern Bolivia, the state radio said. 
BELFAST <UPI) -An explosion blew two British soldiers to bits and injured seven other persons Thursday in the remote Northern Ireland village of Stewartstown. 
The blast brought to four the number of British soldiers killed in two day inNorthern Ireland. 

LONDON IUPil -A bomb tossed from the sidewalk blasted a pub crowded with civilians and military personnel Thursday night in an apparent attempted replay of bombings of two pubs in the town of Guildford that killed five a month ago.
Scotland Yard said at least one person was killed Thursday night and 26 persons were injured. The spokesman corrected an earlier statement that the dead man was a soldier, but said at least five of the injured were military personnel, two of them women soldiers. 
an campus taday 
friday, november 8, 1974 
12:15 pm--seminar, "the university press and the university" james langrord. fac. lounge, lib. 3:15pm--peter c. reillly lecture series, "heterogeneous catalysis" by dr. j. h. slnfelt, conference room, radiation lab. 4 pm--american studies conference, a blcentlnnlal perspective speakers: t. d. clark, I. u. b. m. barbout, providence coli; a' t' drake, I. u.; w. k. bottorff, u of toledo, a. I. carson & h. I. carson, ferris state. 4 pm--seminar, "currentmonetary problems" by r. colwer, 120 hayeshealy. 5 pm--vespers, evensong, log chapel. 5 pm--mass and supper, bulla shecl. 7 & 9 pm--the navigators, "friday night deal", non-denominational 

-christ-centered fellowship, flanner penthouse. 8 pm--american studies conference, "the american revolution and the historical Imagination" by m. kammen, mem. lib. aud. 8 pm--travellogue series, "greenland-an odyssey" by j. glerkey, o'laughlin aud. 9-1 am--dance, walsh hall's hop, everyone welcome, $0.50, Iafortune ballroom. 9 pm -smc coffeehouse celebrates fall -d. klee, 10 pm -n. ungar, 11 pm -b. hlllstrom, 12 pm -b. polloc and j. gresser, doughnuts and elder -15 cents. 10 pm--nazz coffeehouse, m. armstlon, 11 pm-trlad-d. shaheen, j. 
schneider, g. mandellnl, 12:15 am pete snake. 

saturday, november 9, 1974 
9 am--american studies conference, speakers: r. j. moss, mlch st; 
j. a. davis, u. of mlch; I. s. kaplan, kwnt st; v. a. rogers, u of cln­clnatl, c. w. akers, oakland u. 
10:45 am-;american studies conference, speakers: t. j. schlereth, nd. !10 registration fee. 
sunday, november 10, 1974 2 pm--meetlng, talos, sclenceflctlon club, 2d Iafortune. 3pm--recital, studentby s. b. teachers assoc. nd lib. aud. 
4: 30--vespers, evensong, lady chapel. · 10-4:15 pm, 1-4:45 pm sunday--art exhibits nd art gallery: 
bill kremer, recent ceramic scuptures, gallery I. minor white, captures spirit of american life, gallery 2. masterpieces from the kress coli. gallery 3. same time as above--portfolio week, all smc galleries. 



FAT WALLY'S 

ELECTRIC BEER JOINT 

:,..:.· 
(r I .. 
._..... 

IS COMING! 
2046 SOUTH BEND AVENUE 
ACROSS FROM THE 
CAMPUS VIEW A PA RTM ENTS 
Blues Festival opens at Stepan Saturday night 
by Ellen Syburg 
Notre Dame's fourth annual Midwest Blues Festival will feature Fenton Robenson, Big Walter Horton, Eddie Taylor and Muddy Waters when it opens at 
8:00 p.m., Saturday, November 9th. The Stepan Center festival, a program of the Cultural Arts Commission, was organized by Perry Aberli, chairman, and Mike Mroz, CA commissioner. 
Explaining their goals for this year's festival, Mroz said, "We wanted really good music that we could offer for a reasonable price. With these performers we have been able to do that." Aberli added, "How often can you get a line-up of excellent musicians like this for only three dollars?" 
"We realize that people may not be that knowledgeable about blues. 
We're setting the ticket price low so that people who are interested in finding out about it can afford to come," Mroz explained. 
Aberli noted that many students may be surprised at just how familiar they will be with the music. "When you hear it, you see how much influence blues has had on recent rock performers. Mter all, the Rolling Stones took their name from a classic song by Muddy Waters," Aberli observed. 
Waters, a dominant figure in the Chicago electric blues scene, is making his second appearance at the Midwest Blues Festival. 
Fenton Robinsom will open the evening. Mroz said, "He has been called one of the most original and creative bluesmen around." 
Also making their second ap­pearance at this festival are Big Walter Horton and Eddie Taylor. "Anyone who was at the festival two years ago in Washington Hall knows how great these guys will be," Aberli asserted. 
Tickets will be available only at the door. The sale will start at 7:15 on Saturday night. 
The Observer is publiShed dally 
during the college semester except · 
vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from ·The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

AFTER THE GAME. VISIT INDIANA'S LARGEST RESTA~ANT 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT TI-E TUES,\1\ED,FRI,SAT SUN 


WOODEN KEG 
1609 South Main 289-4824 
THE ROMA PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your Host Frank Anastasio 'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' LIVE B A N D S 0 N WEEK EN D S 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
~~**************************** 
: ·. WALSH HALL HOP ! 
: * 
: FRIDAY NOV 8, 9-1 am: 
i LAFORTUNE BALLROOM: * $.50 ADMISSION • MUNCHIES, POP * 
* AND MUSIC PROVIDED BY WSND :
* D.J. KEVIN DICKERSON * 
: . DANCE CONTEST WITH PRIZES * 
...................................* 
ELKHART CONCERT CLUB 

PRESENTS 

THE PRESERVATION HALL JAZZ BAND 
OF NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA 
E L C 0 THE AT R E 8 P .M . wEDNESDAy I N 0 v EM BE R 1 3th 
TICKETS: ADULTS $5.00 STUDElltJTS $2.50 TEMPLINS, TRUTH READER SERVICE, SOUNDMASTERS AT THE DOOR 
PAT WARNER 264-9810 
! 




1* * *
* 
i 
* 
a 
:
* 
*
*
* 
: * 
*, 

as newr before. a * 



amaht ; * ** 
&the i
*
night a 
"' visitors i
*
* 
*
* 
A special presentation of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra *: 
"Amahl & the Night Visitors" is a
* 
colorfully staged and costumed mu­

* 
sical classic with an appeal to all

* 
people, young and old alike. This is : the first professional production ever

* 
to be performed in the area. There

* 
will be two performances only and

* 
tickets are limited. We suggest you


* * 
* purchase your tickets early. Performances:
1 Morris Civic Auditorium ...-Friday, December 6 (8 p.m.) : Saturday (matinee) Dec. 7 (3:30p.m.) 
******************************************************* 
: : 
a Experience the spirit of Christmas : 
Tickets: Friday Saturday ~ Reserved ..­seats $5.50 & 4.00 $4.50 & 3.00 : General * Admission $3.00 $2.00 ~ 
:::: 
For reservations and ticket informa-..­tion, phone the Morris Civic Audito-~ rium box office at 232-6954. Tickets :::: may be ordered by mail by sending :::: a check or money order and a self-:::: addressed, stamped envelope to: ;: Morris Civic Auditorium, South * Bend, IN 46601. * 
......................................................: 
Friday, November a, 1974 the observer 
Warning is issued to local bars 
by Dennis KellyStaff Reporter 

The St. Joseph County Alcoholic Beverage Board issued Wed­nesday a warning to tavern owners in the Corby-Eddy neighborhood to quiet crowd and music noise and to prevent patrons from littering the surrounding area. 
The board, chaired by Bert Wishkotoni of South Bend, told the proprietors that failure to comply could result in a revocation of liquor license. Wiskotoni em­phasized that "we are going to look at the renewal applications very 
B PEGGY POLK RoMl <UP I) _ American Midwestern farm representa­
tives warned the World Food Conference Thursday that they 
were not about to feed the rest of the world out of their own 
pockets. "With all the fine words and brave talk going on around
here in the end it will be the Am~rican taxpayer who pays for it," said Dale Butz, a 
conference observer from the Illinois Farm Bureau and brother of u.S. agriculture Secretary Earl L. Butz. 
Cuba's representative used the world food forum to blame the world's economic ills on the 
United States, while China called for the expulsion of Cambodia and South Vietnam from the ~onference and said the· food shortage was caused by the "superpowers." 
There was also some plain, tough talk from the Midwest at a news conference called by Harold B. Steele, president of the Illinois Farm Bureau, and 
J. Merrill Anderson of the Iowa Far-m Bureau. 
The representatives from the biggest U.S. farm exporting states said they backed the idea of an international system to control food reserves, as proposed by Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, but they warned the American taxpayer should not have to foot the bill. 
"We would respond to the carefully.
The action came at a hearing on the application for a permit to start a new bar filed by Matthew Bauer of Granger. A unanimous vote of the board approved Bauer's request to start the sixth tavern in the northeast neighborhpod area. 
Twenty-five member residents of the Northeast Neighborhood Council appeared at the board meeting to fight Bauer's ap­plication. Council President Ar­thur Quigley, a civil engineering professor at Notre Dame, urged the council to reject the request o" 
by Ken Bradford and John Hennessey Staff Reporters 

The Faculty Senate considered the nine proposals of the Com­mittee on the Course of Study <CCS> at a meeting last Wed­nesday night in the Center for Continuing Education. 
The CCS report, which contains suggestions for the advancement, modification and integration of undergraduate curriculum, was submitted to the Senate on Oct. 1 by University Provost Fr. James 
Burtchaell. Burtchaell asked the faculty 
group at that time to forward their recommendations to his office by mid-October. The CCS report is also scheduled to be discussed bythe Academic Council later this fall. 
One of the key issues discussed in the report was the proposal to combine the College of Arts and Letters with the College of Science. 
The Faculty Senate noted that the combined college system has worked well at other universities and that the system might work at
Notre Dame. Physics Professor Gerald Jones stated that the University might
have trouble finding an adequate dean for such a combined college. "The qualifications necessary of a 
dean to head such a department
would be so high the position would bedifficulttofill."Jonesobserved. 
"I don't know of any man that nas the capacity or the qualifications to head such a broad department." 
The proposed senior seminar on values alo drew mixed reactions from the Faculty Senate. History Professor Robert Kerby noted, "If this seminar is to teach values, I cannot see the point of trying to induce such values in the last semester, when the student has already proceeded through three and a half years without this support."
A point was raised, however, that the seminar is not designed to teach values but to promote a 
better interpersonal relationship among students and instructors. 
Several professors affirmed 'their-support for the seminar, but the. Senate was obviously split on the issue. 
Senate professors also differed over the CCS proposal to increase the use of educational television or cable television for certain courses. The only advantage discussed forthz proposal was that television would give greater access to students of courses which are in great demand. 
The television courses, however, 
would destroy valuable teacher-student interaction, some professors complained. They
added that such a situation would hinder the progress of the student and would the feeling of ac­
complishment for the teacher. 
The Senate approved the CCS recommendation to make courses 
1disappointed in the outcome of th~ Bauer hearing, but was heartent.-d by Wiskotoni's remarks. "It was something that needed.to be said", noted Quigley. He pointed out that his organization first approached the bar owners concerning noise and crq,wd conduct in January, 1973, .fmd remembered that some of 1the responses were in his words "quite callous." 

"philosophical" grounds. He wa~ aid to semor citizens, food nutrition 



ND Faculty Senate meets 
·challenge of producing more,'' Steele said. "We are !lot stating that we expect starvmg people
to pay for food before ~hey are fe~. But we are saymg .that 
neither farmers nor Amencan taxpayers should be expected to 
carry the burdt;n alone." Steele questiOned whether there would be adequate
arrangements for distribution of the foods. 
"Will they be ~sed to fe~d hungry human bemgs or Will they. end . up lost on some ~ockmg pom,~ as they have done m the past~ he aske.d. 
Cuban VIce ~rem1er Carlos ~afael Ro~~1guez bla~ed 
stubborn policies of the Umted 
In speaking of his own organization, Quigley notec;fthat its main purposes are mostly positive i~ nature .• wi~ programs suc~.as, 
1 
equally available to all qualified students regardless of their major or college. The faculty members said the measure would enable the student to broaden his scope byselecting theoption to enroll in courses usually restricted to another college. 
Also approved by the Senate was the proposal to begin a com-· bination five-year BA-MBA program. The faculty also agreed with the recommendation that enrollment in the combined program not exceed 15 percent of 
the total enrollment in the MBA program.
The proposal concerning the adoption of mini-courses into the 
curriculum met with opposition from the faculty. Though some teachers felt mini-courses would allow them to develop their special areas of interest, others felt the unstructured nature of the courses would doom the system to failure. 
The Senate also discussed the situation regarding advanced placement and credit by examination. The faculty also 
was discontinued due to the late * hour. The discussion will resume ~ at the next -Faculty Senate ~ 
meeting, which well be Thursday, ~ 
Nov. 14, in room 118 of the * Nieuwland Science Building. * 

Midwest farmers warn food conference ,i 
States" for inflation and the ~ "international financial b~nk-'.* . ~u"tcy of. th~, developed capital-*
Is~. countries. . . . * .In the rulmg Circ~es m the* 
Umte~ ~tates ·there IS t~lk of * negotiatmg the exl?ortabon. of~ 
producmg * 
provide 1 million tons of grain * 
food  t~  ~~nd  th~  oil  * 
CO\~ntrJes,  he said.  ·  
Canada  has  pledged  to*  

a year to help meet world J1­

programs, youth couqseling and neighborhood beautifi,tation. He said that the situation at hand was "most unfortunate," because many citizens had devoted much time and energy to the neigh­borhood, and that government had , spent great sums of money for 
street and curb repair, and that the local bars and their clientele were disregarding those interests. 
Louie Rappelli, proprietor of Louie's Restaurant, noted the the Wiskotoni statement was "news to me", and felt that his establish­ment was doing no more to litter the City or disturb the peace than any other establishment. 

Rick Kanser, owner of the Library and Uncle Willie's Fatal Glass of Beer, could not comment on Wiskotoni's statement when contacted. He felt, however, that the noise coming from establishments such as his was increased by the current football season. Nick Billelo of Nickie's, Joe Mell of Corby's and Bauer all could not be reached for comment. 
County prosecutor William Voor could not comment on the situation. 
discussed the need for Notre Dame 

admissions requirements to match L..-------------------------_. 
high school graduation***********************************'*·
requirements. ..-'t' Discussion of the CCS proposals ._ * lasted.long .mto·me evening and • NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB ~ 
The Faculty Senate hears proposals for the change of the un­
dergraduate curriculum. (Zenon Bidzinski) 
--------------------------~ 

SUNDAY MASSES 
.-(MAIN CHURCH) 
5:15 p.m. Sat. FR. BOB GRIFFIN C.S.C. 9:30-a.m. Sun. fR. ED MALLOY C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. SUn. FR. JOHN GERBER C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. FR. BILL TOOHEY C.S.C. 
* *
I N coN( E RT * * WASHINGTON HALL * ~ 
MONDAY NOVEMBER 11 
i 
8·15 p M * 
, • • • :



FEATURING NUMBERS BY VERDI * 
-


BEACH BOYS SCHUBERT 
1 .
SIIVt()N & GARFUNKLE 

FREE ADMISSION •I 
1 * * 
* *

* 
*
*
* 
* 

shortages, and Australia. has ft:*********************************** ple~ged ~n amount proportional to Its nab~nal wealth. 
The Umted States has. called for greater food production ~1;1t has refused. to pledge a specific amoun! hke Canada and Australia. 






THE WINERY
I 
2426 LINCOLN'WAY, WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE ~ 
All the Finest Eu!opet~n Cheeses Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods 1 Oriental. Cooking Ingredients : 10 c:;/o Cheese & Fa~cy Food
._, 
Discount to Faculty & Students French Bread & Croissants illew York Cheesecake , Greek Olives 

-------·-· 

Campaign charges refuted 
By Jim Donatben better here (58 per cent) than work. They just showed up for part l Staff Reporter ' statewide doesn't prove a Bayh of the day on Election Day and victory here on campus," He started making all sorts of charges stressed.
Leo Buchignani, chairman of in the press," he complained. Notre Dame-St. Mary's Youth for Buchignani criticized thr "They've already won, it's poor Lugar yesterday refuted charges eampaign run by O'Connor and taste to engage in back-biting at I that his group employed illegal Bayh volunteers. "The Bayh this time," concluded Buchignani. campaign practices. 
people didn't do a whole lot of 
In yesterday's Observer, Richard O'Connor, campus campaign manager for Senator Phone 288-8488 for times & directions
No security proble1n
Bjrch Bayh, claimed "some Lugar 


campus advertising attributed to st~dent organizations was actually patd for by the Lugar organization downstate." 
Buchignani admitted ad­vertising purchased in the Nov. 4 Observer election issue was paid in part by the statewide Youth for Lugar organization. Though the two ads indicate sponsorship by 
campus groups he claimed, "The cttffer:.t~ce is irrelevant since we're a subsidiary part <of the state youth for Ltigar). It's silly to call It an unfair campaign practice." 
Indianastatu\! 3-1-30-6 governing election expenses states: 
"It shall not be lawful for any political chairman, treasurer or political agent to expend any money for the printing or publication of any political matter whatsoever, which shall not purport on its face to be pringed or published by the authority of said treasurer or political agent..." 
On the basis of the statute alone, the Lugar group may have com­mitted a technical violation, said Professor Fernand Dutile of the Notre Dame Law Sehool. "But if the local chapter is an agent of the state, they ha•e probably complied with the law. 
Dutile stressed that his opinion was based solely on the statute. A legal brief on the statute would include an in-depth study of its legislative context. 
Buchignani also challenged the Bayh group's contention that they spent no funds on the Notre Dame campus. "Campaign literature costs money. It's stupid to say they aren't spending any money," he observed. 
The Lugar chairman said O'Connor implied that Democrats came away with a strong victory on campus. He pointed the success of Youth for Lugar in the two races on which they concentrated: Bob DuComb for state representative and Richard Lugar for U.S. Senate. 
"We turned the campus around for DuComb. Two years ago, he lost this precinct by a two-to-one margin. This year he won the precinct by about 90 votes " said Buchignani. ' 
DuComb was one of only three Republican to get elected.in St. Joseph County races. 
Buchignani felt his group cut heavily into the majority Bayh would have won otherwise. "This is Bayh territory, The fact he did 

Dotittet the price ofacoUege education stop 
)UU. 
The price of a college educa­tion is skyrocketing. The Air Force has done something about it. For the first time. the Air Force ROTC Scholar­~ hips include the 2-year program. for men and women. 
If you qualify. the Air Force will pay for the remainder of your college education. Not only do AFROTC 2-year scholarships cover full tuition. reimbursement for textbooks, lab and incidental fees, and $100 a month. tax-free. 
To cash in on all this apply 
qualify, and enroll in the Air 
Force ROTC at Bldg. No. 5

r call Capt. Shepard, 6634 
It's a great way to nmsu ;our college education in the money, and build a future as an Air Force officer. 
MAKE TilE MOST OF IT 
i • I I## I I I I I I I 1°1 I I .I 



at 0-C apartments 
' lock. The door-locks also have aby Bill Flanagan 
Staff Reporter devise called a "latch-pin" which 
prevents anyone from sliding aIt is becoming a well-known fact knife or plastic card along the lock that if a student chases to live off­to open it. Chain locks are on allc.amp.us, one . of the biggest dif­the doors as an added precaution. 
ficulties he wtll encounter will be 
~he problem of security. Recently, Farmer said thattherehas not been 
an attempted burglary in nearlynumerous reports of burgularies to three years.
the homes of off-campus students have been received by the police Other apartment houses have
m_uch the same story. At campusand, more often than not, there is Vt~w, student Hastings noted thatlittle that can be done. In contrast as1de from some minor vandalismto the problems of homeowners on a few unfinished apartments
apartment house dwellers have ~ different situation. 
<broken windows, etc.)there have 
been no problems at all. One of the 
Managers and students residing at differ~nt ~o~ations yesterday 
Cam~us View employs' full-timemanagers, Judy Medich said thatstated the1r optmon that there is no security guards. 
apparent security problem at the The Crestwood Apartments onapartments. 
East Edison Road have not hadAt the Notre Dame Ave. Apart­any ~roblems either. Managermen~ on Sou.th Ben~ Ave., Jerry Bonme Buechler said eachDewitt, a semor, attributed this to apartment door has two locks and the fact that the Notre Dame that they have never experienced . Apartments are occupied nearly any break-ins. ­100 per cent by students, and most At the Eddy-Colfax Apartments of them keep erratic hours with on South 25th Street, Mrs.
lights on all night, etc. In fact Loveland, the manager stated that Dewitt noted, the only place yo~ all doors have regular night locksmight have problems is the but no chain locks or anything ofparking lot where his car was that nature. Loveland added thatbroken into twice last year. 
all the entrances are lighted andOne of the owners of the Notre again, there have been n~Dame apartments, Bill Farmer problems at all.
said that extra security measures Mrs. Moore, who runs thewere taken. He notes that there is Riverside North Apartments ongood outside lighting as well as North Riverside Drive noted thatfenced-in area. 
they don't reallv supply any extraThe ground floor windows have protection but they still have hadbars and the door 0i · each apart­no problems. Moore said, "We've 
COLLOQUIUM 

MEETING TODAY AT 4:30, O'SHAG 104 
S1UDENTS OF ARCHITECTURE 
INVITE YOU TO EXPLORE THE p1JI'DV' REACHES OF 
~ 


URANus 

A SPACE AGE 

-BUGGERAGE MUSIC BY TALISMAN .._W"'\V. 16
1~ 

Ant"''UU'TECTURE GALLI:'DY
.11.\.ollU .a;;.n, 

f FIRST BANK & TRUST TRAVEL 
"ON CAMPUS" -BADIN HALL 



--========================~ 
*SPEOAL XMAS GROUP RATE TO LOS ANGELES AVAILABLE ~W -CALL GREG ERICKSON 3687 
·AIRLINE RESERVATIONS ·COMPLETE DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN 

SERVICES ·REPRESENTATIVE FOR ALL AIRUNES -NO ADDITIONAL COSf 
PHONE: 283-7080 

----------~----­
---~ 
Friday, November 8, 1974 
the observer 5 u t r ider'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHB--1_.,.___IUUIDDI•I··----1 T a I k i n 9 L0 s e rIs ~I ues 




Rocky's Wall 1 
•IIIIIIIIUIIUIIIWDIIBIII........._I..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU.. a rt bu chw a1 d 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUHIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIDIIIHIInn• ga r ry wiIIs 
NelsonR Rockefeller's return to the national scene prompts me to take a look back on the first controversy that made him a public figure. The epidsode is worth recalling, if for no other reason, than because it inspired one of the better satiric poems of our time, E. B. White's "I Paint What I See." 
In 1932 young Rockefeller took over the 
building of Rockefeller Center. It was 
depression time, and the nsing towers 
represented a great risk and 1<how of con­
fidence on his part. To add to the swash­
buckling air of it all, he indulged his love for 
modern art and commissioned a bright 
mural from Diego Rivera. Young Nelson 
corresponded in detail on the brilliance in 
the colors that would be allowed-a fact that 
White set to verse this way: "What are the 
colors you use when you paint? Do you use 
any red in the beard of a saint? If you do, is 
it terribly red, or faint? 
Rivera· went to work on the mural in the 
spring of 1933. Nelson gave the project a 
great deal of publicity, and dispensed 
tickets for artists and critics to enter a 
viewing area and watch the great man at 
work. Nelson even came himself, and got a 
good look at a new face in the design, one 
never mentioned in the early correspon­
dence. White's poem makes Nelson ask 
innocently: "is it anyone's head whom we 
know at all? A Rensselaer or a Salton­
stall?" 
The head, it turned out, was that of Lenin-­
which should have come as no great sur­
prise. Rivera was an outspoken Marxist. 
Rockefeller had presumed he could buy 
talent on any market. Businessmen may 
not like the Bolshies, but they like to trade 
with anyone, even the devil. 
Rockefeller wrote a very tactful letter to Rivera, praising his "thrilling mural," and saying he did not want to interfere with an artist's work, but politely demanding that he "substitute the face of some unknown man where Lenin's face now appears." 
This became in White's poem: "And though your art I dislike to hamper, I owe a little to God and Gram per." Rivera offered to m~ke some concessions, but not to remove Lenm: "I'll take out a couple of peole drinkin '-And put in a picture of Abraham Lincoln." . 
So since Rivera woUld not remove Lenm, Nels~n removed the whole mural, having it chipped off the wall by his workmen. .. The great work of art he had praised and promoted he destroyed. This was not an act like book burning since there are oth~r copies of most books that get burned. Th1s was the destruction of a unique work by the artist's own hand, and the gravity of the act is increased by the fact that Nelson sin­cerely does love art and tries, in most cases, to foster and preserve it, not destroy.
The episode was used, later on, by Rockefeller's critics on the right because he dealt with a Marxist in the first place, and by those on the left to show that he repressed free thought. But what it really shows is the presumption of wealth on a scale that knows that whatever it cannot buy it can at least destroy. As White has his versifying Nelson conclude: "And after all-It's my wall." 
Looking around New York, a Rockefeller even that young could almost paraphrase Lyndon Johnson's later comment and say, "Son, they're all my walls." It would be nice to think there are some walls Mr. Rockefeller can neither buy nor rent, to decorate or deface-the walls of the White House, for instance. 
In every political contest there is a winner and a loser. You hear a lot from the winner but nothing from the loser. What happens to a defeated candidate? How does he feel? 
"Gov. Habadasher," I said. "Oh, you still remember me?" Haber­dasher smiled. "You only lost the election Tuesday, Governor." -· 
and then be turned out by the people. What 
• was thefirst thought that came to your mind when they told you that you had lost the election?" "I thought about all the good things I had hoped to accomplish for this state-the unfinished business that I had started; the dreams that were shattered by an electorate that didn't understand what I was trying to do." 
"That's very nice, Governor. But what 
know, I really got to love that helicopter. It would land right out there on the front lawn and zoom! I was above all the traffic and the stinking congestion and lousy air down there and I could get to the football game in 15 minutes. There's no feeling like it." 
"No one could fault you for thinking that. Do you blame anyone for losing the elec­tion?" 
! "I blame myself, only myself. Of course, I had lousy TV commercials. I mean they really stank. But every time I complained, they told me I didn't know anything about show business. And those infantile newspaper ads didn't help me any, nor did my campaign staff who seemed to be drunk every time I needed them And I'll tell you this-I got creamed because some idiot was 
running for senator on the same ticket as I was and his opponent stole all my votes. Except for that, I would say it was my fault." 
"That's very generous of you, Governor. Your wife said after your defeat that she was happy you were getting out of politics." 

. "She was lying. She enjoyed being the "People forget fast in this state, son.' governor's wife more than I enjoyed being ' governor. Boy, did she love all those ser­"lt must be tough to have been a governor vants and that chauffeured limousine and 
1
everyone playing up to her because she lived in the Mansion. She may have told the press she was happy I was getting out of politics, but she hasn't talked to me since I lost the election. 
"Governor, what does the future hold for somebody like you? Where does one go after being the head of a state?" 
"I'd like to get into the Cabinet." 
"President Ford's Cabinet?" 
."Whr not? He blew the election for me 

were you really thinking?" I~1th h1s pardo~. The least he could do is 
"Well, if you want me to level with you, g1"f.e me. a Cabmet post." the first thought that came to mind was But 1f he gave everyone who lost the 'Damn, there goes my helicopter.' You i election .a high post in his Administration, 
the Presld~ntwould hav.e to hold his Cabinet meetmgs m RFK Stadmm." "That's what my wife said." 
· "Governor, by American standards, yo~'re a loser. You have tasted the bitter frwt of defeat. Having lived through it, would you advise young people to run for public office?" 
"I certainly would." "Why?" 
"Because if you win, you have a chance of getting your own helicopter. There's nothing like it, son. You're flying way up there in the clouds and when you look down all you see are suckers jammed bumper tO bumper trying to get home from the football 
game." 

Turning 20-It's Already Been Done 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUII....IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
fred graVer 

so bobby comes in and busts everybody ... simply phenomenal and the greatest thing that has happened to him in a hundred years ... this guy comes in while we're sitting minding our own business and asks if he's the one on the radioand­thenewspaper and cracks us all up , especially him, who remains silent throughout, cause who wants to be made known.. .i say no, you must be mistaken, i'm one of the Supremes 
i accept chaos, i'm not sure if chaos 
accepts me. i know there're some people 
terrified of the bomb, but there are other 
people terrified t be seen carrying a 
modern screen magazine. experience 
teaches that silence terrifies people the 
most... 
where i live now, the only thing that 
keeps the area going is tradition-as you 
can figure out-it doesn't count very much­
everything around me rots...i don't know 
how long it has been this way, but if it 
keeps up, soon i will be an old man 
and i 'm only 20-the only job around here is 
mining-but, jesus, who wants to be a 
miner...i refuse to be part of such a 
shallow death-everybody talks about the 
middle ages as if it was actually in the 
middle ages-i'll do anything to leave here­
my mind is running down the river-i'd sell 
my soul to the elephant-i'd cheat the 
sphinx-i'd lie to the conqueror ... tho' you 
might not take this the right way, i would 
even sign a chain with the devil ... please 
don't send me anymore grandfather 
clocks-no more books or care 
packages...if you're going to send me 
something send me the key-i shall find the door to where it fits, if it takes me the rest 
of my life your friend, 
Friend 

so zap comes in and plays blue worm near the television, and whos to tell which show is for real..."hey," the frat brother calls out to the boys on the street," i hear you guys really know how to party" 
and they try to load all of this energy, like a big wall, in the plane to ship to hollywood where the author of the great glapsy and some guy who said goodbye to his arms are waiting with rita and gary cooper ... andgroucho stumbles out with his nurse, whos about nineteen years old and turns on all the young dudes on, ferociously ... 
feeling somewhat useless at twenty ... too young for nostalgia, too old for not caring ... to unexperienced for anybody to take my word for it, too far along to go blameless.. 
curious about the awesome, realizing the potential wrapped within, needing to be tapped, you are your own potential and if you don't want to be a miner, you can leave here, just realize that you will have to leave and you can't take anything with you. 
the very existence of someone else with you, as you attempt to climb out of the mines, will negate that journey ... trading Beatrice for St. Bernards, Dante finished his trip ... she herself-not Orpheus-is the logical poet... 
the pumps don't work, cause the vandals took the handle ... where they teach people how to tell the news to the neighbors nobody knows how to write about the vandals taking the handles, and none of the people in the whitehouse ever having gone to the Apollo... 
i shambled after them, as i've been doing all my life, after people who interest me because the only people for me are the mad ones, the ones who are mad to live, mad to talk, mad to be saved desirous of everything at the same time, the ones who never yawn or say a commonplace thing, but burn, burn, burn like fabulous yellow roman candles, exploding like spiders across the stars and in the middle you see the blue centerlight pop and everybody goes "Awwww!" ... 
it's much easier, so you see, to write about disillusionment than dreams... 
hey look, if you've gone this far ... there was Jordan beside me, who, unlike Daisy, was too wise ever to carry well-forgotten dreams from age to age ... 
not only the title, but the plan and a good deal of the incidental symbolism of the poem were suggested by Mr. Edgar Bergen and Mr. Charley McCarthy's excellent work, "From Ritual to Romance; Conversations with a Wooden Blockhead" ...these fragments I have shored against mv ruins ... 
all right, i tell you. monday we watch firefly's house but he no come out. he wasn't home. tuesday, we go to the ball game, but he fool us. he no show up. wednesday, he go to the ball game, but he fool us, we no show up. thursday was a double header. nobody show up. friday it rained all day. there was no ball game so we stayed home and listened to it on the radio. 
hey little buddy, eonatti, cam, tom, bobby, rich, ski, look friends ... all that matters is that i got away with it so far ... 
shantih 


----~--------~..------~~~----~--~--------~----.-----------------~----------------------------------------~-------------·------­the observer Friday, November 8, 1974 

November is a mood of year that stretches us apart with a hunger after glory. It is a ft.g of season straining at the heart alive in a lar.d of shadows, with trees as empty as windows letting in the moods of weather. November is the month that broods over death like a gray bird lonely in the meadow, betrayed to the winter by the October gypsy. 
It is April grown old; it is springtime too long at the party. Why then, in these land­scapes that seem like mourning, left bare of beauty ingathered by the dying year, can the heart feel so alive, as though it were guesting at immortal feasts? Mainly, I suppose, because November needs a cheerful heart. 
I, for one, am prepared to give November everything it needs. Since I have a cheerful heart, I will give it to November, though the whole month leaves me feeling metaphysically shaky. November can be a bitch of a month when really nice people go around talking like graveyar~s poets. I say that if November is going to do that to me, November better start watching itself. The whole world, these days, is in need of cheering up, and I'm not going to add to its gloom. Frankly, I think it's a year when we could afford to skip November altogether, and move right on to the celebration of Christmas. If it was up to me, I'd do it. But someone's sure to object: you can't do it because of the t'!alendar. Why must calendars always be such a problem around Notre Dame? 
Everyone has been remarking what a queer, strange· mood the world and the campus seem to be in, this year. Some of the Old Grads say it is because the economy is shaky. The politicians blame it on Watergate. Billy Graham lays it on the nearness of the Second Coming. The pre­meds attribute it to academic pressures; an outo{)f-work alumnus says it's the fault of the job market, and a few toospot acquain­tances of mine insist that everyone is up­tight about the drinking regulations. Darby O'Gill says he's not up-tight about anything, but it sure would help if there were more female cocker spaniels around. 
Campus moods will pass, and the world will surivve feeling strange, and Darby O'Gill will learn to make accommodations like the rest of us. But there will always be Novembers testing the faith we have that, like immortal nightingales, the earth was not born for death. Autumn is not the un­doing of April; it is merely Nature's ending a song so that the dances of springtime can be played again. 
But I need not tell you of November. You already know about November. You know it is a month that needs a cheerful heart. But there are those other gray times, so much like November, when the skies darken,and the cold winds blow across a human life; and our achievements, like autumn or­chards, seem to be in bare ruins. There are the tragedies, great and small, that our feet stumble onto, like frozen robins on the garden path; and like those tragic choristers, we feel only chill where the heartbeat should be. November strips the forest of its leaves until the trees are naked to the winter; but the soul knows a winter­stripping that leaves it well nigh naked unto death. 
These are the metaphysical Novembers when cheerfulness is required of all of us, as well as a faith in resurrections. For our comfort, in cycles that began with Creation, Christ tells us again and again with His springtime that beauty is never lost. So trusting in the triumph of life, He entrusted His own glory to the darkness, and love found its way to the light. 
As with Christ, so with us. There is a love at work within us, beside us, behind us, under girding us, that leads us through the darkness into light-and I am not merely talking of graveyard victories which, God knows, at the age of twenty, you probably ,don't think much about. 
Love is at work in the ordering of the seasons. but it is not only roses that suffer the winter. Life has its seasons also, with its bleak months alternating with the sunshine; but the movement is constantly in the direction of springtime, until the final glory of an every lasting May. 
But before the springtimes of heaven, there are the defeats and humiliations that are known in a lifetime: the acne that ruined a date; the quiz that failed a semester; the job loss that complicated a marriage; the death of a child that broke a heart. These are the Novembers great or less, wnen gaiety seems to say goodbye to the season. It is then that a cheerfulness, born of Christian optimism, should remember that God does not love the yearless because He gives it November. All the beauty of summer is gathered into His hands so that He can give it back in those special Easters when we will know with conviction that the pattern of all life is a gain and loss of lights and shadows, and beauty is never, ever, finally lost. 
There is only one lesson I have really ever wanted to teach you: it is the Gospel news that tells you that you are loved. But your lover is a November God at least for a little while, as long as it takes for winter to reach April. In some years, that is quite long enough. In the meantime God, as well as November, needs a cheerful heart. 
a medium of being down 
The third version of MIDWEST BLUES will make its appearance at Stepan Center this weekend. And while the forum is truncated (MB I went for 3 days, MB II for two) into one night the quality and the quanity of the music will be as intense as ever. The festival, if one night can be so designated, features the star of MB I Muddy Waters, plus a return appearance of Big Walter Horton with Eddie Taylor, and the eollege concert circuit debut of Fenton ~:obinson. So, for a brief four or five hours, Stepan Center will be translated into one of th~ raucous, boogie and booze joints so <ypical of the south and westside ghettoes of (~hicago. The music will be loud and driving, desperately trying to convey a feeling that is, simply, the Blues. For this music is not mE'rely entertainment, it is a medium of expression that has been generated by the ex1•erience of being down. The Blues can · tell you what its like to be down, but they can also lift you up, litter ally, till you are clapping your hands-and didn't ralize it-o{)r dancing. You're laughing and talking with people you didn't know before and Monday and the rest of the "Mean Old World" are a long ways away. 
To those people who know anything about Blues, it is common knowledge that B. B. King is not the King. Perhaps there is none, for there are as many kinds of Blues as there are Bluesmen. Or perhaps the "King" was Robert Johnson or Elmore James. Or maybe there is a living prince. If there is, Muddy Waters must certainly be a claimant to the crown. More than any other living ' Blues artist <B. B. King included) Muddy has shaped the character of modern electric blues. From the early recordings for Aristocrat <bought out by Chess) from 1947 to 1950 (including "Rollin' Stone", the song that inspired a certain rock group); to the legendary band of the early 50's that in­cluded Little Walter Jacobs, Otis Spann, .Jimmy Rogers, and Willie Dixon; to the early 1970 "London,' sessions; with Stevie Winwood and Roch Gretch--and the earlier "Fathers and Sons'' wherein Mike Bloomfield-and Paul Butterfield showed people where they were coming from­Muddy's hand has been in firm control of the Blues scene. Add to this the memory of anyone who saw Muddy here in 1971 and he alone is something not to be missed. 
But Muddv isn't the whole of MB III; 
together with him are two other Blue acts equally meriting attention. One is that remarkable combination of the blues harp of Big Walter Horton and the subtle and brillant guitar work of Eddy Taylor. As 
with Muddy, to Blues freaks, either of these names is a legend that conjures up images of crowed dingy rooms with a driving band on a small stage in the corner. In this mirage Walter can be seen tall and thin, hunched over his cupped hands blowing notes from a harp most people didn't know was in it and almost anyone else couldn't find. He might be counterpointing Muddy's vocals or jamming with Roosevelt Sykes. The legend has it that Walter even played with the Memphis Jug Band at the age of 13­
a preview by perry w. aberli 

certainly his character would not belie it. And we know for a fact that when Fleetwood Mac got to_ Chicago they looked up Walter and asked 1f they could jam with him-they too, knew where they were coming from. And then there is Eddie Taylor, cigarette drooping, quiet and unassumingly layingdown the guitar backup for Jimmy Reed-o{)r pl~ying with Snooky Pryor and Sunnyland Shm and Floyd Jones. Eddie "Big Town Playboy" Taylor, who went to school with Ike Turner, and went to Memphis and t~ught the fledling B. B. King a few licks on 
his brand new $60 electric guitar from 
Sears, Roebuck will be backing Walter and 
t~e show will be a deja-vu for those of us who 
hsten to their records--like listening to an 
oldlonglost 78, except without the scratches­
and just an incredible trip for everyone
else. . 

The final artist on the MB III line up is Fenton Robinson. Least known of our guests Fenton has a well deserved reputation on the Chicago blues scene. He has recently recorded an album for Bruce Iglauer and Allieator Records which, hopefully, will beavailableby festival time. Fenton is also the youngest of our per­formers and while his roots are firm in the blues of Muddy and Walter and B. King he is not afraid to explore the possibilities of fusing soul and blues together. He's played with Bobby Bland, Johnny Ace, Booker T., Jr. Wells, and Otis Rush. He's paid his dues on the West Side and his music reflects the gutty, sometimes violent, atmosphere of that proud area of Chicago. 
That, briefly is how MB III stacks up: a lot of music, a lot of good times, and a dose of history and a culture that whites are very seldom admitted to for one brief night--this Saturday night at Stepan Center. I advise y~u not to miss it; be a Big Town Playboy, Ride "Em On Down, and Have A Good Time--Get Your Mojo Workin' and make it to Stepan on Saturday. 
DISCOGRAPHY 

Muddy Waters--Sail On (Chess LP 'i539) 
Fathers and Sons (Chess LPS 127) Big Walter Horton-Big Walter Horton with Carey Bell <Alligator 4702) Eddie Taylor-o{)n above plus: 
South Side Blues (CobQlestone 9001) 
I Feel So Bad-The Blues of Eddie Taylor <Advent 2802) Fenton Robinson--Somebody Loan Me A Dime (Alligator 4705) 

cac tickets 

Tickets for the Thursday, November 14 production of The Apple Tree by the New York Theater Company are no on sale at the 
Student Union Ticket Office, the Cultural Arts Commission and the SMC Program­ming Office. The show, an American musical based on short stories by Twain, Stockton and Fieffer, will open at 8 p.m. at O'Laughlin Auditorium at SMC. Tickets are $7.00 and $3.00


_:.....:::....::______
Friday, November a, 1974 the observer 
In V«:d:ergate trial 
t······MiiiiiGAN.STi£e:t····1 
Sirica declares tapes ad:rnissible·i .ADULT THFAT.HfS i 
By JANE DENISON attorneys for defendant H.R. defendants -John N. Mitchell,WASHINGTON (UPI) -U.S. Haldeman tried the surprise John D. Ehrlichman, Robert C. ! X 2 FlLMS i 
~

District Judge John J. Sirica tactic of arguing that federal Mardian and Kenneth W. . Thursday declared Richard M. law prohibits fruits of illegal Parkinson -immediately en­Nixon's secret tapes to be wiretaps as evidence. dorsed it. But it carried no : X BOOKSTaiE i proper evidence in the Water-Since the prosecution has weight with Sirica.. • • 
gate cover-up trial, overriding offered no evidence that any of "I think you have a different i X LIVE FLCXII SHOW !defense objections that they the participants in the conver­situation," he said. "These were illegal wiretaps and thus sations gave their consent to tapes that are being offered ... 
inadmissible. being taped, Haldeman lawyer were made at the direction of i 1316 SOOTH MICHIGAN STREET f 
In ·a brief courtroom state­ment, Sirica ruled that the prosecutors had laid "sufficient foundation" to admit the 26 tapes, which include Nixon's White House conversations be­tween June 23, 1972, six days after the Watergate bugging 
arrests, through April 26, 1973, n
:: ~:a:~:~ged cover-up began roll on ca endar c ange 
They are expected to be 
d 

introd~ced beg!nning Monday in slated for secon semester
the tnal of fiVe men charged with attempting to cover uphigh level involvement in the break-in and bugging of Demo­cratic national headquartersJune 17, 1972. 
In a last-ditch effort to keep the tapes away from the jury, 
0-c students are plagued by theft 
(continued from page 1) 
"The police can feed this in­formation into their computer," stated 'Steve Bennett, a senior Arts and Letters student working on this project with the Housing Office. "When the police see vehicles around one of the students' houses they can call the license number of these vehicles in and see if they are on the list," Bennett observed. 
Finally, both Bennett and Tallarida urged all students in­tending to rent off-campus housing in the future to do so under the terms of the University Lease, a form contract drawn by the housing office. Bennett explained that the University Lease has four stipulations that distunguish it from standard lease contracts: . 1 l It limits the landlord from entering the leased property tto between 8 a.m. and 10 p.m.; and only after 24-hour warning. 
2) It binds the landlord to replace detects in the condition of the house within one month after ten days notification. 
3) It gives students automatic leave of their contract in cases of exoulsion or academic dismissal. 
4} Itgives the landlord 10 days to bring the condition of the house up to the tenants satisfaction if the house is not in the condition agreed to when the students begin oc­cupance. 
Frank J. Stricker argued, the tapes thus are illegal intercep­tions of wire and oral communi­cations and must be ruled inadmissible. ­
It was an argument never before raised in the case and lawyers for the four other
I 

by Maureen Flynn
Staff Reporter 
Student government academic 
commissioner Jim Ambrose 
commented yesterday on possible 
plans for changing the academic 
calendar. 
"Right now, there's not much 
that can be done," said Ambrose. 
"Polls taken now will have very
little influence." 
According to Ambrose, the issue 
of the calendar will not be taken up 
by the Academic Council until late 
January or early February. 
"We wilfbe working on a student 
Moot court team 
finishes high 
in competition
by Jim Donathen 
Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Law School's moot court team finished among the top four in the Midwest Regional Court Competition held last Thursday,Friday and Saturday in Chicago. 
"Considering the caliber of competition, schools like Chicago and Northwestern, we were very pleased to finish as well as we did, said Professor Fernand N. Dutile, the team's faculty advisor. 
In addition, the Notre Dame team tied for first place in the presentation of legal briefs. 
Fourteen law schools and 25 moot court teams participated in the contest. The top two teams, from Marquette University and Valparaiso University, will travel to New York for the national finals 
in December. 
Members of the Notre Dame team included third year law students Robert Weaver, Patrick Gibbs and Brian Short. Patricia Leonard is the moot court team student advisor. 
Stanford MBA 
REPRESENTATIVE COMING TO CAMPUS WEDNESDAY,NOVEMER13 
A representative of the Stanford Graduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss with interested students the exceptional educational opportunity of the Stanford MBA Program. 
Appointments may be made through The Placement Bureau 
The Stanford MBA program is a two-year general management course of studies designed for highly qualified men and women who have majored in liberal arts, humanities, science, or engineering, and wish to develop management skills to meet the broad responsibilities which will ·be required in both the private and public sectors in the future. 
THE STANFORD UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 
Stanford, California 94305 
the President and kept in the general course of business... "My ruling is very simple. I 

.~~-~PJ:.\~W9B~JJRIJ!
-
don't think Congress intended 
that  statute  to  apply  in  a  
situation  such  as  we  have  in  
this case."  h  

survey, hopefully with the Sociology department, that will be meaningful," he said. Ambrose explained that the survey will be taken at the very beginning of the second semester. 
"We'll be surveying both students and faculty members," he continued. "We'll be asking about wage losses and in­conveniences caused by the early start." 
Questions dealing with the Oc­tober break will atttempt to determine whether the break was wanted or needed, how it was used, whether the break was wanted 
or needed. 
Questions dealing with the Oc­tober break will attempt to determine whether the break was wanted or needed, how it was used; whether it tended to interrupt studies or to refresh the studies or to refresh the students and whether an extended November break would be preferred. 
In addition, Ambrose said other schools' calendars would be. examined and petitions would be sent to the Academic Council and 
other  officials  by  the  Hall  
President Council.  
"The  ultimate  decision,"  con­ 

cluded Ambrose, "will be made solely by the Academic Council." 
The Observer will conduct a survey this weekend to determine student attitudes toward the Oc­tober break and possible changes iii the calendar for next year. 
............._ 


m~r Qhtlnnial Janraltt i;nu.st 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
~=:!::::::::::::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=!::::=:=:::::=-========:=-:=:!:?X!:=:w 
:~:: 35 Varieties of Pancakes :;:;: 
;:;:chicken -Steak -Sandwiches ;:::: 
f~~~ Friday Nites: Perch Dinners 1l! 
:1;:::::::::::::=:=:~:::::~:~::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::;:;:~;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::. 

U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50 
WHAT MORE COULD YOU 
ASK FOR? 
-GOOD FOOD 
-GOOD DRINKS 
-GOOD MUSIC 
All AT: 

THE VA-IlTE HOUSE INN 
2839 N 5th 683-9842 
N 0 W P LAY IN G :iXciN-"a"Eci<.E¥r:
'··················· 
\1\1:05.--DRINK & DROV\N THURS--PITCHER BEER NITE 
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 51 3 miles. 

.< 
The Student Union Cultural Arts Commission present~ Midwest Blues Festival with Muddy Waters and Big Walter Horton Fenton Robinson Saturday, November 9, 1974 8:00p.m. Stepan Cenfer $3.00 at the door  


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  NEWS:  283-1715  BUSINESS:  283-7471  
Fred Graver Editorial Editor  Tom Drape Editor-In-Chief  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  
Bob McManus Advertising Manaaer  Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob Zogas Business Manager  

The Power of the Vote 
Tuesday, Notre Dame and St. Mary's students went to the polls ... and Tuesday night they saw the power of the student vote in the election returns. 
The campus vote was a deciding factor in at least one of the local races. Newly­elected State Senator Robert Kovach credits his close victory over William Bobtrager in large part to the student vote. Kovach's margin of victory unofficially was near 900 votes of the over 30,000 ballots cast. Kovach carried the Notre Dame-St. Mary's precinct by 692 votes. 
These results clearly signal success for the Voter Registration drive conducted by Student Government in September. In that drive 1800 new local voters were registered on campus in an attempt to create a student power vote on lowering the drinking age to 18. Although the age of majority certainly was not the only issue for students, its importance to the students ahas been demonstrated in their vote. Kovach favored lowering the age of majority; Bobtrager did not. 
In a year of Watergate and a general political malaise nationwide statistics indicate only 38 per cent of those of voting age actually voted. On campus close to 50 per cent of those registered voted locally, despite delays of up to 30 minutes at the polls. Student interest in local politics, especially the drinking issue, is high. 
The question remains how to sustain and channel such student political en­thusiasm and awareness. In nearly every local race the candidates of the students' choice have been elected. The student vote has been exercised and now is the time for the students to become a viable political constituency on the city, county and state levels. 
The immediate task of channeling the student constituency must rest with Notre Dame Student Government. Student Body President Pat McLaughlin, who initiated the Voter Registration drive, must maintain contact between the new officials and the students. 
First priority for McLaughlin on the state level is to drum up support among state representatives and state senators for a bill to lower the drinking age. This should be accomplished as soon as the legislature re-convenes in January. 
DOONESBURY 
For the last two years Student Government has been involved in a state­wide lobby with over 20 other Indiana colleges. Although this student lobby has failed to produce substantial results largely because of in-fighting among the member schools, cooperation with other state colleges (which wield greater political power than Notre Dame) is essential. 
More important than influence on the political events in Indianapolis is the impact students can have in South Bend. The student movement of the Sixties has resulted in vast student political power in such "college towns" as Berkeley, California and Madison, Wisconsin. Although South Bend is far from being a college town, students do have an im­portant political role to play. 
Notre Dame students living off campus are just beginning to experience the problems of living in South Bend--the crime, the housing and the racial problems that South Bend residents have long been forced to face. 
The student living on campus spends nine months of the year in South Bend. What happens in this city and this county affects them, perhaps more than they realize. 
What Notre Dame students are now 
confronted with is the opportunity to 
become more integrated with the rest of 
the local community. The officials 
elected Tuesday are their officials as 
much as they are anyone else's. Students 
have an important input to the com­
munity of South Bend that can no longer 
be ignored. Politically, the Notre Dame 
constituency can and has made the dif­
ference in close elections. With this new­
found political power Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's students have the ability to in­
fluence the government they 
live under. 
They can call their state represen­
tatives, lobby with county officials, talk 
with city government. 
The chance to work with local and state 
government is here as it has never been 
before. It is now up to Student 
Government working with the 
student body to amplify the student voice 
heard last Tuesday. · 
Terry Keeney 

by Garry Trudeau 

Dining Halls 

----------·hu'h ha~an 
Pr~bably the only person on campus who could come close to beatmg Burtchaell or Macheca in a 'The Man I Love to Hate' 
contest would be Ed Price, the director of the widely acclaimed Notre Dame food service. 
The basic problem in dealing with the food service is that they do not have _to be responsive to students. As it currently stands, the ~oo.d serv:1ce has a monopoly on the Notre Dame campus. While this m Itself IS not bad (it's only practical) the worst of it is that the audience is captive: all undergrads 'on campus are forced to purchase the 21-meal-a-week plan. The cost for this service is added directly into the room and board sum without any indication of the cost of Board vs. the cost of Room. 
This bad situation gives no reason for the food service to give a damn one way or another about student opinion and tends to generate a so-what attitude. The instances of this total disregard is a long one. For example: 
1). There is almost no effort taken to provide special diets, meals, or dishes for those on campus who cannot or do not wish to eat the more 'normal' fare. As it is, all meals are geared to the student yvho doesn't especia_lly care what he eats and has three helpings of It. No all~wanc,e IS made for: diabetics, vegetarians, those with salt-free d1ets, dieters, or foreign· students. 
. <?ne ~tudent on campus who would prefer more vegetenan mam dishes has written four times without any response coming from management. 
2~ T~ere is a tendency (to use a more polite phrase) to run out of mam dishes ~nd other.foods toward the end of serving periods, and not t~ ~eplemsh these Items even when possible. The best example of this IS the supper meal which supposedly runs for an hour and a half, although it might be more accurate to say that the meal runs about an hour with the last half_hour devoted to leftovers and sloppy seconds. It would seem that with hours from 5:00 to 6:30, a paying studen~ should be able to come at 6:29 and receive exactly the same !Ileal (m the same condition) as the student who arrived at 5:01. An 1mp~omptt~ survey of the south dining hall on the two nights before wntmg this column reveals that the 6:25 arrival is lucky to rese~~le anything that resembles even lunch. These two nights the dmmg hall ran out of,_ among other things, all salad dishes, all desser~s except one, condiments, and three out of four main dishes for which they substituted som~thing not quite comparable. There sho~ld ?e no excuse for runmng out of anything, much less mam dishes. It would seem t~at with a set number of paying-by­the:sem~ster student~ and considerable experience with each of the mam dishes, the kitchen would be able to predict within a reasonable limit exactly how much of each would be demanded. No such luck. 
3) T~e so_-called brunch on Sunday is another good example of the arb1trarmess and disregard prevalent in the dining hall staffs. Many students are in the practice of eating three meals on Sunday <although I would never get up that early) which includes both a breakfast and a lunch-dinner. In fact, these students do pay for 21 <not 20) meals a week. Apparently Mr. Price is more concerned with making a larger profit that the contracts entered into or the students served. 
4) On the weekend of the Miami game, it was suddenly and ar­bitrarily decided that Continental breakfast would not be served. No notice of this was given in any way. 
Alt~ough ~one of the above instances is particularly blood­curdling by Itself, added together (and the list is by no means complete) they point to a clear so-what attitude toward students. 
Therefore· t prl_)bably the best solution to this total disregard of students would simply be to destroy the food service's iron-clad monopoly over the students. While allowing another food service on_to. cam_pus is obviously i_mpractical (although ideal) the Ad­mimstrabon could at least g1ve the students a choice over whether to purchase the dining hall's services or not. In fact this is currently the policy in regards to the grad students i~ Lewis, Carroll, and Brownson, where the grad has the option to buy the 5, 17, or 21 meal per week plan or not to patronize the dining halls at all. 
Under a ne~ voluntary plan, all those students who feel that they h_ave been ripped-off> shafted, burnt, or merely ignored would simply not purchase their meals at the dining halls. Suddenly the food service would become very conscious of what students felt. Those minorities which hav~ been largely ignored by the dining hall~ (and from whom the dming halls make a majority of their profits) would no longer frequent the food services. 
Establishment of such a voluntary plan would not be difficult or impractical (in fact, this is rule at more than a few universities) and would no doubt be opposed by Mr. Price who has undoubtedly become used to having the students and their money in his pocket. The institution of this plan, however, would have to come from the Administration who would have to weigh the best interests of the students against the best interests of the Food Service. The out­come would not be hard to guess. 
~---------------the observer 
RVFt/S, I [)(}N'T KNOW 8l/T /A/HAT I 
WHA/S HAPPffNING. IF f)()N1 tJNPtR­I /Jff), I /,(/(}(.}l/J/(T 
STANP IS Att 
BC 116?~.. 
THIS £HPIIA515I ON HITT/N6! 
Night Editor -'B:;-;1-;-;-11-c;B::-r-:-ln--:k------­
Ass't Night Editors -Val Zurblls, 
Mary Janca 
Layout -Karen Hoare, Bob Brink, 
Katie Kerwin, Martha Fannlnq 
Day Editors -Val Zurblls, Ken 

Girouard  
Editorials  -Fred  Graver,  Rich  
Nugent  
Features  -Robert  Baker,  AI  

Rutherford Sports -Greg Corgan, Bob Kissel Typists-Anne Peeler, Barb Haug, Jim Landis, Rick Huber 
Compugraphic Operator -Bob 
Steinmetz Picture Screener -AI D'Antonio Night Controller-Dave Rust 

Prison inmates reflect on the"life within the walls" 
According to Sally Wnzel, theby Theresa Stewart clerk who escorts the women alongStaff Reporter the tunnel in the wall (women are 
not allowed within "the walls" of 
"I never stole a thing in my life. this maximum security prison afor It just happened that I killed a male felons), much has changed, man. It's not something I am especially since the riot last year ashamed of or proud of," the in-and the former Warden, Russell mate said, brushing away the. Lash's move to Oklahoma last 
reason he was sentenced to life in the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City, Indiana. 
Instead he emphasized the need to refor~ and the importance of keeping busy and active in prison. 
"You have to get involve. I am a male nurse for the inmates in a hospital in Michigan City, I'm very busy working working with the Jaycees and I spent three years trying to get a phone for the men to make outgoing calls from the prison," the tall inmante in his spotless white uniform stated. 
He called the Indiana State Prison a backward institution, saying "Their system hasn't worked in 100 years. There must be improvements and r~f«;Jrms, especially in the laws pertammg to prisoner's rights." . . . 
The Indiana State Prison With 1ts tall white wall encirclin~ . the crumbling red brick bulldmgs doesn't look very progressive. The double Jock doors everywhere, the restriction of one kiss and one modest embrace during a visit,
nopsychiatrist on duty, overlooks some or' the recent developments in the institution. 
summer. 

"Last year, a groupo~ mili~an~ seized three cell-blocks m a not m which no one was hurt, but demands were heard," Wnzel explained. "Now, we are upgrading the hospital, have added two more doctors to our staff, and have a vocational training program going betwe~n Ivy Tech and the prison vocational school with the aid of federal funds." 
"Public visitation and volunteer work is also opening up again," she continued. 
Dressed in blue denim pants and a jacket and just recently allo:-ved to have different colored T-~h1r~s, the inmates go about the1r dif­ferent jobs in the Tag shop where license plates and road s.Igns are made. There ~s also a Tailor Shopwhere the umforms are made, a soda shop, a Barbe~"s Train~ngSchool an Adult Basic Education and ' General Eduucation Development Center. 
One thousand men are inside the 
walls of this prison capable of 
(continued on page 10) 
Phillips raps with students 
by Marjorie Irr 
Staff Reporter 

Communication between the 
student and the professional has 
been one of the goals of Woodrow 
Wilson Fellow, Martha Phillips, as 
she has conducted discussions and 
seminars this past week at St. 
Mary's. The communicative at­
mosphere prevailed last evening at 
an All-Campus Rap Session held in 
Holy Cross Hall. 
Phillips began the evening bydiscussing how she got her "in" on Capitol Hill as Staff Director of the House Republican Policy Com­mittee. She explained that no unusual breaks were involved and she started by knocking on doors, expressing interest and working up from the lower rungs of party politics.
Questions concerning women and their changing roles in politics were advanced by some of the approximately thirty people at­tending the session. 
"There's a new image of femininity in this country," said Phillips. She commented further, "This image now involves strength, resilience and the ability to go when the going gets rough." 
This image is reflected in elections across the country, Phillips noted "Everytime women are elected, there are a greater percentage elected just because they are themselves. So many are no longer just taking over from their deceased husbands." 
"These women are doing it on their own mcentive and ability," Phillips observed. 
On Tuesday's election results, Phillips voiced her concern with the extremely small voter turnout. "Only 38 per cent of the eligible people voted," she complained.
Besides that, Phillips acknowledged the fact that many people did not even know who was running for which offices. All participants in the discussion agreed that the public is not well informed prior to elections, and that the information that they do receive is usually biased. 
Phillips observed that groups such as the League of Women Voters and Common Cause, can probably provide voters with clear; unbiased information on candidates and their platforms. 
"One of the friendliest places," was Martha Phillips initial comment when asked her opinion on St. Mary's College. "It's been quite an experience," she said. 
"I didn't know if I'd like the small college atmosphere, where everybody knows everybody else, but I'm already starting to see and recognize people I've met around campus. It's a lot different from Columbia, where I did my graduate work, and where we had all different types of people,"Phillips noted. 
"At St. Mary's, the girls are pretty homogeneous," she con­tinued. Phillips said that one of the most beneficial aspects of women's colleges is that they provide the opportunity for women to develop into leadership roles,. "The girls can learn leadership just by practicing it," she stated. 
NAZZ 
Fri. 10:00 pm -M. Armstrong, 
11:00 pm Triad. 
12:15 pmPete Snake Sat. -Closed for Blues Fest. 
Basement of LaFortune Free Admission 
Friday, November 8, 1974 
the observer 


The base-relief emblem pictured on page 1 is one of two atop the north and south entrances to the Huddle and recalls the early history of the College of Science which was once located in what is now the La Fortune Student Center. This 1898 interior view of the first floor (looking north in LaFortune's present main reception room) suggests the extent of 
1 the museum once located there. Erected in 1883, this building (which was converted Into a student center 70 years later) housed most of the scientific research and instruction of the University until the 
construction  of  Chemistry  Hall  0917)  and  
N!euwland Science 0951-53).  Photo reprodu ction  
by Jim Newkirk  



RIP-0 rf 

Can 

EVERY 3 MINUTES AND 26 SECONDS another college student becomes the victim of 
You

larceny, burglary, or vandalism. 
$40,000,000 IN STUDENT LOSSES EVERY YEAR 1 
Afford

Incredible as it seems, students and their parents suffer 40 mill1on dollars in personal property losses every year. Typewriters, clothing, cameras, tapes, records, glasses, calculators ... things that can easily disappear ... and do. And sadly, 25 million dollars of these losses 
It? 

are uninsured. But here are two plans that can solve this problem for 
you. 

PLAN A -ON CAMPUS This program is designed for students living in residence halls, or other university owned, operat­ed or approved housing including fraternity and sorority houses. 
PLAN B-OFF CAMPUS This program is for off-campus students not quali· fied for Plan A. 
WHAT PROPERTY IS COVERED? Clothing, TV's, Stereo Systems, Books, Cameras and all other property NOT excluded. 
WHAT RISKS ARE COVERED? Theft, fire, smoke, wind, storm, explosion, van· dalism, even riot and many more. 
IS THERE A DEDUCTIBLE? Yes, $25 on each claim. 
ARE THERE ANY SPECIAL LIMITATIONS? Jewelry and property in transit is limited to 10% of the policy amount. Stereo tapes, albums and records are limited to $100. Stereo equipment is limited to $200 unless scheduled; when scheduled, full coverage applies not to exceed the policy limit. 
THE COMPANY National Student Services, Inc., has been providing a program of student property insurance since 1971, protecting some 60,000 students from 350 campuses. The underwriter, National lndepend· ence, is a part of the National Liberty Group of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. 
YOUR GUARANTEE After you receive your policy, take up to thirty days to read it over and decide. If, for any reason, you feel that this protection is not what you want, simply return the policy within the thirty days and you· money will be promptly refunded. 

__________.:._ _______________________________
Offic'ally recognized by over 340 colleges and .niversities from coast to coast. 
APPLICATION FOR PERSONAL PROPERTY PROTECTION 
. : NATIONAL STUDENT SERVICES, INC., c/o National Independence Insurance Co. Moolto. Streets Insurance Agency, 5017 N. Beech Dr., Indianapolis. Indiana 46254 
NAME _______________ COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY ______ SCHOOL 
ZIP ___
STATE __~--­

0ADDRE~~--------------­
~:~EEN~FOR GUARDIAN-----------------------­
SCHOOL CLA~IFICATION' 

0HOME ER:_ET-jOFR OsoPH. OJR. OsR. 
ADORE~. 
ATE _______ ZIP 
0GRADUATE OR sPECIAL STUDENT 
Check the address t~ wh1ch you WISh your pol1cy ma1led 
For Offoce Use 
Coo•-------­
Effect•ve -------Progrom _______ 
Amount-------
PTenuum _______ 
Stefeo Limit-----­
PROGRAM B (OFF-CAMPUS)
PROGRAM A (ON-CAMPUS) 
NOTE 
Base Policy $1500 Coverage $30.00

Base Policy $1500 Coverage= $20.00 
Max1mum 
Additional Coverage is available in units of $500
Additional Coverage is available in units of $500 
Coverage 
at a cost of $10.00 per unit.
at a cost of $6.50 per unit. 
$5000.00 

No. of Additional Units--X $10.00"" Total Premium Enclosed l$20.00 +Additional Costs)= 
No. of Additional Units ~ --X $6.50 = 
on either 
Program 

Total Premium Enclosed l$30.00 + Additional Costs) = Theft or burglary losses under Program 8 requ1re v1s1ble su~no; of forced entry. List all stereo equipment (make, model, serial no., date pufchased and cost I on a separate sheet for full coverage on stereo. 
... 
SBP comments on voting 
by Mary Reher Starr Reporter 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin commented yesterday afternoon on student voting par­ticipation in the state election. 
"I was surprised not many people voted; onlylOOO out of 1800 registered voters actually voted. I don't know whv the turnout was poor," McLaughlin stated. 
"I'm glad tnat the students who did go to the polls voted for Richard Bodine and Robert Kovach," the candidates recommended by Student McLaughlin stated that whenlrovernment in the Observer, the Kovach was interviewed onSBP continued. 

television on election night, he acknowledged that he had received Speakmg ot me wmning can­a good deal of support from Notredidates, McLaughlin said, "I think Dame students. 
we elected three good people. Now After appearing on the NDI think things look a lot better than campus October 22, Robertbefore the election. They will push Ducomb sent a letter tofor lowering the drinking age." 
McLaughlin saying he would beHe also noted that all three very happy to introduce legislation candidates supported t~e ERA. 
that would benefit Notre Dame students. McLaughlin said Student votes proved their ef­DuComb even offered to meet with fectiveness in the election of students to discuss issues if he 
Kovach who won by 900 votes, 700 were elected. 
of which came from Notre Dame Commenting on Bodine,
and St. Mary's students. McLaughlin said, "I thought he was the best candidate for the 
office · because he was up on every
Prison conditions cited issue, well-spoken, and ex­
(continued from page 9) 
holding 3000, 200 are outside the 
walls as Trustees in a work-release 
program. 
Tom Lenz, a sophomore from 
ND who went on a tour of the inside 
of the Prison, described the cells. 
"The prisoners are allowed to have 
TV's and stereos in their 6' by 10' 
sparsely furnitured single cells. 
Many have posters up, and some 
have plastic covering the bars to 
keep warm in the drafty cell 
blocks," Lenz said. 
Lenz was also taken to the Law Library, once the room which held the Electric Chair, now disman­teled. "It was very ironic to see the Lifer's Club studying their legal rights in that room, "he said. "Although there hasn't been an execution in many years, solitary confinement in a tiny, dark room was only recently ruled cruel and inhuman treatment," Lenz elaborated. 

VVnzel added that recent legislation is changing the inadequate parole board providing a contract to inmate~ which tells them what to do to get paroled and a system called the ''Good-Time" legislation is providing a way to shorte]l their sentences. 
Commenting on prison con­ditions, Mrs. VVnzel said, "There are still people here who believe in an an eye for an eye, a life for a 

American Studies 
holds workshop 
by Mark Jahne 
Staff Reporter 
A joint meeting of the American Studies Association of Michigan and Ohio-Indiana will be held at the University of Notre Dame this weekend. Entitled, "The Revolution and After: A Bicen­tennial Perspective," it will feature a workshop on Bicen­tennial planning. 
Topics of discussion will be: Bicentennial summer institutes; the Bicentennial role in ethnic studies and community history; and special dimensions of the Bicentennial in the Midwest. Chairpersons for the event are Anne M. Ousterhout, of Michigan State University; John H. Ferres, also of Michigan State; Madonna 
C. Kolbenschlag and James P. Dougherty, both of Notre Dame. Professor Thomas J. Schlereth will preside over the workshop. 

Featured speaker at this con­ference will be Professor Michael Kammen, chairman of the Department of History at Cornell University. Only thirty-eight years old, he received the Pulitzer Prize for History in 1973 for his work, People of Paradox: An Inquiry Concerning the Origins of American Civilization. 
Professor Kammen will appear 
in the Memorial Library 
Auditorium tonight at 8:00p.m. 
Beginning with registration at the Center for Continuing Education, the meeting will run from 3:00 p.m. today until 12:30 Saturday afternoon. Fourteen different educators are scheduled to speak. 

perienced." He also mentioned 
that Bodine favored lowering the life. There is still an old blind man drinking age. on our parole board." "VVe will soon be getting in touch 
"Homosexual rape is inevitable with other schools in Indiana to ~he continu_ed. "Any young rna~ influence state legislation," said mtroduced mto the population will McLaughlin. "VVe will be working surely be raped within a few days. in particular with 20 other schools Many men play the role of the such as Ball State and Indiana fern~)~, calling themselves by University in the Indiana Student femmme names and marrying Association, a lobby group ND just their men," VVnzel observed. joined last year." 

A Hewlett-Packard pocket calculatoris a gift for a lifetime. 
The HP-35 Electronic Slide Rule. 
Performs all basic arithmetic, trig and log calculations automatically. Has an Addressable Memory, displays 10 digits in fixed decimal or scien· tific notation, automatically positions decimal point throughout its 200-decade range. Cost, $225? 
TheHP-45 Advanced Scientifac. 
Performs 44 scientific functions including vector arithmetic, rectangular to polar conversion, mean and standard devi­ation. Has 9 Addressable Memories. At $325~ it's the pre-programmed calcu latorfora// scientists, engineers and students of science and engin-eering. 
The HP-65 Fully Programmable. 
The world's only fully programmable pocket calculator. You can write, edit and record programs up to 100-steps long. You can take advantage of HP pre-recorded programs, so you gain the speed/accuracy benefits of programming without writing your own. Performs 51 pre-programmed functions. Cost. $795? 
Make this a special Christmas. Ask for an instrument crafted to last your working lifetime and designed to solve the problems you can expect to encounter throughout that I ifeti me. 
Circle the HP pocket calculator that's right for 
The HP-70 Business. Performs all sorts of general business, in­terest. financial management, lending, borrowing and saving calculations­precisely, quickly. easily. A Finan­cial Memory Bank lets you enter • numbers in any order and change them anytime. Has 2 Addressable Memories and a very affordable price, $275? 
Performs virtually all time/money calculations in sec­onds. Has a 200· 
year calendar, an Addressable Memory. Lets you 
_ make new kinds of management calculations that enable you to make better decisions. Cost. $395? 

*All HP pocket calculators have Hewlett-Packard's patented RPN logic system with 4 Memory Stack. Prices exclude state and local taxes. 
NOWAT THE 

HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
St. Mary's JUiil service adds delivery in afternoon 
by Paul Young Staff Reporter 

The SMC mail service has added a second mail delivery for students at no extra expense without in­creasing the hours of hall carriers. 
The new delivery, from 4:30 until 
5:30 p.m. everyday except Sunday, includes mail which formerly had been held over until the next day at the post office, according to student supervisor of the SMC Post Office, Leslie Williams. 
This "leftover" mail, she stated, is delivered by the Notre Dame post office at 2:15p.m. and 4 p.m. weekdays and at 10:15 a.m. Saturdays. "As the mail is there anyway," continued Williams, "it is a matter of convenience and a half-day speed-up of mail for students to have the afternoon delivery." 
The original mail system in­corporated this year included only a morning delivery at 9 a.m. This change from former years' twice­a-day service was dictated by financial terms of operation af­fecting both the Notre Dame postal service and its St. Mary's con­
tractor. 

However, explained Williams, SMC has worked out the hin­drances to a morning and af­ternoon. "Since there is no extra work involved," continued the student supervisor, "the post office is glad to be able to provide the service." 
Williams related the resumption of the second delivery to the general feeling around campus favoring its reinstatement. 

QUICKIE SHUTTLE SYSTEM 
Main circle at ND •• e•••••••••••••• ••••••••••••••• 8:30 
Holy Cross SMC •••••••••• ••••••• •••••••••• ••••• 8:34
M 

Light before Boar's Head •••• ••••••••••••••••••••• 8:38 Light at Denny's -Village Inn •••••• •••••.. •• •• • • •• 8:40 Jay's lounge on "31" ••••••••. ••••••••••••••••• ••• 8:45 Portaphino's on "31" •••••••• •••• ••••••••••••••••• 8:52 Heidelberg on "31"••••••••••••••••••••• •••••. •• •• 8:57 Shula's on "31" ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • •••• • 9:02 Kubiak's on "31"• • •••••• • • ••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 9:07 Light at Denny's -Village Inn •••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 9:12 Light after Boar's Head •••••••••••• • • • • •• • • • •• • •• 9:15 Holy Cross Hall -SMC • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 9:20 Main CIRCLE AT ND •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 9:25 
There will also be runs following this same schedule leaving the 
main circle at 9, 9:30, 10, 11, 12, 12:30, 1, 1:30. All buses go to 
Michigan. 
The cost will be $.50 one way or $.75 for all night. 
If you have any questions please call 7638. The ombudsman on duty 
will try to help you out. 

NOW PLAYING-THRU JAN. 4 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES $1.00 Off Regular Prices in Groups of 25 or more. 
(BROADWAY'S BEST MUSICAL) 
1973 TONY AWARD 1973 N.Y. DRAMA CRITICS AWARD AHAROLD PRINCE-STEPHEN SONDHEIM-HUGH WHEELER MUSICAL 
JEAN MARGARET SIMMONS HAMILTON 
lftd 

GEORGE LEE ANDREWS 
MON.-THURS. EVES., 8 P.M. FRI. &SAT. EVES. 8:30P.M. MATS. WED., SAT., &FRI. NOV. 29 &DEC. 27, 2 P.M. 
GROUP SALES-PHONE BLANCHE (312) 782-2936 
SEATS NOW BY MAIL ORDER & AT BOX OFFICE 

CLASSIFIED ADS· 
WANTED 
One used good condition 10 speed bicycle. Call 8823 
PARTY PEOPLE to come to THE HOP at La Fortune tonight. Bring-Your-Own-Bod 
Need 2 GA tixs for Pitt Call Tom 8398 
N.Y. Times Daily & on Sun. at Pandoras Boods. Washington Post on Sun. 
Driver to drive U-Haul Truck round trip to Harrisburg, Pa. this weekend. Call S.B. Racquet Club and ask for Rick. 277-0711 
Need 4-6 GA tix for Pitt. Call Dave 1464 
I need two GA Pitt tickets. Call Larry 3376 
Desperately need S GA Pitt Tickets. Call 234-6405 
Waitresses-Waiters-Cooks needed 
part-time.  New  Bar­ 
RestaurantFat Wally's 2046  S.  
Bend 277-0570  

Full or part-time Waiters. Will train. Perkins Pancake & Steak House. 2900 Cassopolis. One Block South of Toll Rd. Elkhart, Ind. Exit 
9 
Need ride to Detroit this weekend. Call Maggie at 4437 or Sue at 4704 
Need Pitt GA tix-Call Chuck 206 Grace-1592 
4 Good GA Pitt Tickets-Will buy 4 together or pair-call Terry 3462 
Used upright piano for reasonable price. Call Mike 1248 
Need 6 Pitt GA tix. Call Bob 1059 
Need 2 GA Pitt tix's. Call Michelle 3665 
Need 1 student ticket for Pitt Game. Call Chuck 1877 
Ride wanted to Hartford, Con­necticut for Thanksgiving. Will Share expenses. Call Paul 8923 
Need ride toChicago Fri.,Nov. 8th after •4pm. Call after 4. 4347 
Need 2 GA Pitt tix. Call 289-9148. 
FOR SALE 
Used Nikon equipment for sale. 2 Nikon F bodies, 1 ~tor drive, S lenses (300,200, 135,5 35). Call Zenon after midnight a 233-2352 or 
8003 
4 Yes tickets. Call Chuck 1877. 
Canon Model 7. Huge·SOmm-FI. 2 lens, built in light meter, many other features. $110. Call Kline, 6706 
Walsh's Hop is LaFortune-SOc at the door for all the food, drink, and dancing you could ask for! 

Three Pirahna fish and tank. $150 complete. Real bargain. Phone 272-3973 
~ennlfer's-119 W. Colfax Men's Shirts. Calif. & India imports. Sale ends Sat. 
Bose 901 Speakers $450.00, Dual 1229 Turntable $175.00. All like new, call 255-5414 
1974 Scuba Pro Diving Tank and Boot. CaII 8253 
Will Sell Yes ticket. Good Seat on the Floor. Call Gregg at 1612. 
I'll sell one Yes ticket. Located on the floor. Call MARK at 1612. 
Spiritual Misguidence. Call 3573. Friar Dan & Brother Jim. 
Interviewers wanted to conduct personal interviews with households and landlords in housing research survey throughout St. Joseph County. Must be able to work evenings and weekends and a minimum of 25 hours a week. Automobile necessary. Interviewing ex­perience or other pub I ic contact experience helpful, training provides. References required. Survey will last 4 months. Contact:WESTAT, Inc. 41843 Commerce Drive, South Bend, IN 
46628;233-4105,233-4106. An Equal Opportunity Employer 
For information on the lowest priced diamonds in the area, and personalized service, call a student who knows! Pat 1149 
Typing -experienced in term papers and dissertations. Reasonableaccurate 232-5715 
Ski Aspen: Loging 7 Days, 4 Area Lift Tickets 6 Days, Breakfast­only $130. Last call Nov. 8 for $50.00. Deposit. Call 6856 or 341 
Farley. 
Chess Sets! 1'm leaving for Mexico Nov. 11. I can bring you back a handcrafted Onyx Chess Set for a fraction of their retail price. Call Candy 283-6922. 
NOTICES 

ATTENTION ALL GUYS: If you're down, and troubled, and you need a helping hand,. and nothing, nothing,nothing is going right--­Come to Walsh's Hop Friday in La Fortune and freak out! 
It's finally here! Walsh's Hop is appearing in LaFortune tonight 9­1am. BE THERE or you won't know what you'd be missing if you weren't. 
DANCE-FUN-GIRLS-GUYS· TOGETHER-DANCE-FUN­GI RLS-GUYS-TOGETHER­
DANCE-FUN TONIGHT! 9:00-1:00 -SMC DINING HALL-MUSIC BY WIND­ONLY $1.00! DANCE-FUN­GI RLS-GUYS+TOGETHER­DANCE-FUN-GI RLS-GUYS­TOGETH E R-DANC E-F UN­
Jennifers-119W. Colfax fantastic Sale. Tops, skirts, long & short, dresses. 288-3355 
Will do typing of any kind. Call 233-4484 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN BUYING A NEW CAR? FORD, LINCOLN-MERCURY, PON­TIAC, OR A.M.C. AVAILABLE. CALL 232-4736 EVENINGS 
BETWEEN 7:00 and 9:00 and asASK FOR SLICK SAM'S SALES. SERIOUSLY, GOOD PRICES ON ALL MAKES. CALL NOW TO BEAT THE THANKSGIVING RUSH. 
Tune-Ups by experienced Mechanics, N.D. students. $10 plus parts. Call John -1604, Pete 272­1279 
car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros. Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to ND-SMC student,faculty and staff do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also availabe. Since 1929. 234-0181. 
FOR RENT 
503 EWest FJefferson Duplex 3 
503 West Jefferson Duplex 3 room furnished apartments First & Second floors. Gas, heat fur. nished. 289-6307 
Room-$40 week near rides,; Privacy. Kitchen. 233-1329 
PERSONALS 
Marsa from Farley, Can a crippled black freshman be twins with an anglo fifth year arkie? I hope so. Chip. 
To A. Thank you. I'm very ap­preciative of your tlioughtfulnes. could we talk Sometime? 
PLEASE. Friend 
Anyone who knows Camille, Sue, Amy,Kathy, Ann, Mary Anne, Anabel, etc.-We're ·having a party-If you want to come, be sure to call us. 4904,4088,5165 
Girl 22 on train seat 22 aisle. I'm sorry. 283-6759 
ATTENTION ALL GUYS: If you're down, and troubled, and you need a helping hand, and nothing, nothing is going right-·-Come to Walsh's Hop Friday in La Fortune and freakout! 
Jr. C.I.A. You gotta have friends? Patty Peroxide, Panama Canal, Tokyo Rose. 
Today's her birthday. Get your free bise while they last. Nan­cy's her name. Call her for a real blast. 
Sue R. The pretzleman told me to leave the case under the bed. Happy 29th? Birthday. The Bird Man. 
Grave-We observed it will be your Birthday. How many years ago did you hatch? All of us 

-
ND icers down Bowling Green 6-2 
by Bob Kissel 

The Notre Dame icers made an impressive comeback to the ranks of the winning circle. The Irish soundly defeated the Bowling Green Falcons 6-2 before a small crowd of 2594 faithful fans. With their win tonight, ND now has a 2-3 record this young season. 
The opening period of the gameagainst the Falcons started with each team waiting to see who would make the first move. The Irish had some trouble early in the going breaking out of their zone, hut were able to maintain pressure offensively with good skating and hustle. 
Bowling Green opened up scoring witha goal by Mike Hartm::m, with assists to Jack Laine and Byron Shutt. The goal,as many scored upon ND this season, came about when the defense gave up the puck trying to break out. The Falcons swarmed on helpless ND goalie Len Moher, 
take the 1-0 lead at 6:12. 
Notre Dame roared back at 8:00 into the opening stanza when the Irish executed on offense as Peter Puck might describe it. Team captain Paul Clarke broke up ice and hit Don Jackson with a long feed pass. Jackson slid the puck to Pat Conroy who skated behind right winger Kevin Nugent and blasted a 30 foot slapshot past BG goalie Mike Luit. 
The tying goal picked up the pace of the Irish offense as they scored two goals in 35 seconds. Alex Pirus notched his fourth marker of the year. when he took a perfect centering pass from winger Clark Hamilton and flipped the puck past split Falcon goalieLuit. 
Lew Curry got his first varsity career goal when he took the point pass from Brian Walsh. Curry saw an opening and beat the Bowling Green goaltender with a 15 foot writst shot at 14:51. The Irish continued their aggressiveforechecking through the rest of the period, receiving a well­deserved standing ovation and taking a 3-1 lead into the locker room. 
Len Moher led the Irish attack in the second period, by coming up with the kind of saves that give 
coaches heart failure. Moher made 15 saves inthe period, while his counterpart Mike Luit made only six, yet Luit let three pucksby. 
Kevin Nugent got the first Irish tally of the period when he took a centering pass from alternate Captain Pat Conroy. Kevin looked once and put a 25 foot wrist shot 
Geg O>rgCirl:============================================================================================================== 
The Irish Eye 
:=====================================================================================================:,Footlxill 
picks 

Bowl bids are the big news, unofficially, as the 1974 college football season enters week number ten. 
It looks as if Alabama and Notre Dame will reunite in Miami's Orange 
Bowl on New Year's while Florida will tackle Nebraska in the Sugar 
Bowl Penn State will battle the Southwest Conference winner in the 
Cotto~ Bowl and either Ohio State or Michigan, as usual, will meet the 
Pac-8 winner in Pasadena's Rose Bowl. 
But between now and then, a lot can and probably will happen. 
This week's picks: 
lTSC at Stanrord: This is typically a vicious contest for some reason. A 
lot of people come out of this one hurtin'. Tomorrow there'll be more 
hurtin' Indians than Trojans. SC by 14. Peggy Lawlor: SC by 21. 
Tt-mple at Pittsburgh: Tony Dorsett can fly faster than any Owl, 
especially Jewish ones. Pitt by 14. Lawlor: Temple by 3. 
Pt-nn State at North Carolina State: Joe Paterno finally has his Nittany 
Lions back on the track. NC State started strong but ia making the fast 
fade. Penn State by 10. Lawlor: Penn State by 17. 
Missouri at Oklahoma: The Tigers won big last week so now it's their 
turn to get clobbered. But the Sooners were on the cover of Sports 
lllustratl'd and maybe it'll catch up with them this week. Still, Oklahoma 
by 7. Lawlor: Oklahoma by 20. 
Mississippi State at Auburn: Auburn was upset last week and they're 
out to prove it was a fluke. Mississippi State is no patsy, however, 
although Alabama beat them 35-0 last week. It won't be 35-0 this Satur­
day, but State will be on the short end. Auburn by 14. Lawlor: Auburn by 
10. 
Indiana at Northwestern: This game is a contest to see who is the worst 
major college football team. The sad part about it is that both teams are 
so evenly matched. A 0-0 tie would be appropriate, but the Hoosiers may 
pull this one out. Indiana by 7. Lawlor: NU by 10. 
Michigan at Illinois: The Wolverines aren't the second best team in 
college football. The Fighting Illini should give them a tussle, especially 
in Champagne. UM ought to come out on top. Wolverines by 10. Lawlor: 
Michigan by 20. 
Louisiana State at Alabama: This game's in Birmingham and Bear 
Bryant and the rest of the 'Barna folk are itching to get another crack at 
the Irish in the Orange Bowl. The only way they could blow it would be to 
lose to LSU, and they won't do that. 'Barna by 14. Lawlor: Alabama by 
17. 
Arizona State at Brighan Young: Frank Kush has a mediocre squad 
this year. The Sun Devils lost to UTEP last week. BYU may pose a 
problem they've won four in a row and beat Arizona. It should be close, 
but ASU by 4. Lawlor: Brigham Young by 7. 
Hice at Arkansas: A major upset here. Arkansas will lose any chance 
of winning the SWC by losing to the Rice Owls tomorros. Rice by 1. 
Lawlor: Arkansas by 3. 
Air Forl'e at Army: Besides Northwestern-Indiana this is the greatest 

The sophomore line of Alex Pirus, Brian Walsh and Clark Hamilton led Notre Dame in its most im­pressive offensive showing of the season, a 6-2 win over Bowling Green. . 
past Luit. Give ano assist on the play to ref Brian Amos when he tripped Falcon Brian Celentano coming back to cover on defense. 
Dave Bossy notched his first career goal on 35 foot slap shot at 
14:45. The play was setup by winger Tim Byers' solo effort of muscling into the Falcons' zone. Byers centered to Dave Howe, whose shot was stopped and slid out to Bossy. Bossy pulled the sting for the goal to give ND a 5-l 
lead. 

Freshman Kevin Nugent tallied his second goal of the night at 15:50 of the session. Nugent took a centering pass from Pat Conroy and sent a 7 foot wrister along the ice past shellshocked Falcon Luit. 
The third period saw Bowling Green score their second goal at 
4:30 of the game. Mike Hartman connected on a 35 foot slap shot which got by screened ND net­minder Len Moher. The Irish penalty killing unit, led by Moose Novitski and AI Karsnia, showed their usual expertise in that specialty area. So far this season the penalty killing -::orps have 
allowed only one goal of 25 op-show the kind of balance we need," 
portunitJes. noted Smith. "Once again Len 
"I was pleased with the way they Moher gave us a super game, responded out there tonight," stopping some excellent goal remarked ND Coach Smith. "I chances for Bowling Green." wondered about last weekend, The Irish hope for more of the whether they would die in the vine same tomorrow night against the or get up off the ice and play Falcons. Coach Smith will start hockey." John Peterson in goal and go with 
"Pat Conroy played well and basically the same offensive and 
with the addition of Kev <Nugent) defensive sets. WSND will carry 
and Don (Jackson) for his wings, all the action live lrom the ACC ice 
that line. with Walsh's and Olive's, rink beginning at 7:15. 

Boaters drop a pair before Fall break 
by John DeCoursey 
The Irish soccer squad dropped two tough games to Wabash and Grace Colleges in games played before break. Wabash downed the Irish 1-0 on their home turf, and Grace beat the Irish 2-0 on Stepan 
Field. 
Wabash dominated the Irish 

OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Student tix still for sale 
There are still 620 padded seats purchase deadline is being ex­available to students for the up­tended to accomodate those coming basketball season. Those students who may have forgottenwhG have not yet purchased their or been unable to obtain the tickets 
season tickets will have until next earlier in the week. Coach Digger week to do so. At that time the Phelps has expressed concern at remaining seats will be offered to the apparent student disinterest the general public. The ticket and assures those who do buy
candidate for crummy game of the week. Both these Service academy ·· tickets that they will not be teams are terri~le. Army probably is worse, even at home. Air Force by Buggers in action disappointed.
7. Lawlor: Air Force by 14. 
Kansas at Colorado: Both the Jayhawks and the Buffaloes have lost three in a row. The game is a tossup. It also doesn't matter much. The Notre Dame rugby team 
J.Vbore injured

Kansas by 3. Lawlor: Colorado by 7. returns to action this Saturday throughout the game. The Wabash fullbacks took control early, and gave the Irish offense very few chances to score. The Irish were constantly on the defense although the score was 0-0 at half time. 
Midway into the second half however, Wabash scored on a l)enalty kick. Wabash dominated the game from then on. The score may have been more lopsided except for the excellent play of goalie Mark Klein. 
Against Grace, the Irish made several costly errors that cost them the game. Notre Dame had several good opportunities to score, but shots went either straight to the goalie or wide. 
In the second half, Grace scored a goal on a breakaway. The fullbacks didn't switch men properly and a Grace lineman got open in front of the goal to score easily. 
After the goal, the Irish offense, led by Terry Finnegan, continued to pressure Grace, but they were unable to tie up the score. Late in the half, Notre Dame pulled its defense up to offense, and Grace took advantage of the move by scoring a breakaway goal with three minutes left in the half. 
The .. B team played three games before break. Marian College fell to the Irish 6-0 in a rout. 
Goshen College's J.V. toppled the team 4-1, but the Irish came back to defeat Bethel College l-0 in a close game. 
The two losses suffered by the A team brought their record down to 6-5-1. The B teams record climbed to 4-3. 
Gt-orgia at Florida: The Gators want a bowl bid and they helped their after taking a short vacation from The University of Michigan's The Irish have three more 
cause last week by crunching Auburn. The Georgia Bulldogs shouldn't the rigors of the game. The Irish athletic department announced games to play: all at home. On 
cause any problems in Jacksonville. Florida by 10. Lawlor: Florida by take on undefeated, defending with great reluctance that All­Friday, the Irish play the 
21. Midwest champions the Chicago American goaltender Robbie University of Cincinnati at 8 p.m. 
Yale at Penn: Yale is unbeaten and leads the nation in scoring Lions. The games will be played in Moore underwent knee surgery on Cartier Field. They take on 
defense. In Philadelphia it could have some trouble with Pennsylvania Chicago on the athletic fields in yesterday and will be lost to the Purdue, Sinday afternoon at 2:30 
but not too much. Yale by 14. Lawlor: Yale by 20. Montrose Park. Earlier this year Wolverines until after January. In on Stepan Center Field. The 
Upset of the week; Michigan State over Ohio State: No this is not a the Lions blanked the his two years in the nets for soccer season ends on Wednesdayjoke although it could very well turn out that way. MSU has improved chiropractors from Palmer Michigan Moore has turned away when the Irish meet the University steadily and the game is in East Lansing. The Buckeyes have had it easy College, the only team to defeat the almost 2500 shots. In Moore's of Wisconsin Parkside at 4 p.m. on lately and this could be the shocker, and it would be nice to see the Irish ruggers in the fall. Anyone absence, Michigan coach Dan Stepan Field. . . The B team season Spartans come out on top. MSU by 6. Lawlor: "You've got to be kidding, interested in going to the games Farrel will go with freshman ends this Sunday when they play
-
osu by 20." should call Larry Casey at 289-Frank Zimmerman, a highly Purdue's J.V. at noon on Stepan
Last two weeks, 25 of 30, 83 per cent. Season: 89 of 120, 74 per cent. 2757. touted prospect from Canada. Field. 





