OD The Inside 
10 fail-safe steps ... page 2 Fashion at N D ... page 7 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 114 Thursday, April 25, 1974 
Asks for support · 
Rice attacks abortion decision 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 

Appealing to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students for support in the "grass roots" fight for a constitutional amendment to outlaw abortion, Dr. Charles Rice of the Notre Dame Law School attacked the Supreme Court's abortion decision for making "innocent human beings non­persons without any legal rights." He predicted eventual victory for the amend­ment rn<Jvement. 
Rice, along with Notre Dame student Keefe Mon­tgomery and Therese Bush from St. Mary's, spoke at Galvin Auditorium last night. The three argued that the embryo and fetus are human and explained the various types of abortions and what could be done politically. Montgomery pointed out "positive alter­natives to abortion" and Rice predicted that the next battle would be over euthanasia. 
Using slJdes, Montgomery talked about the 

development of the fetus, pointed out that babies as 
much as 16 weeks premature have been saved while 
fetuses that young are deliberately killed. He 
described the various types of abortions currently 
used. 
"The most common is the suction method," Mon­

togomery began, "used between seven and twelve 
weeks. In this type the fetus is sucked up a tube placed 
up the vagina and often torn to pieces in the process." 
Another common method is "D and C", dilitation and 

curatage, in which the fetus is scraped out of the 
womb, dismembered, and removed. "Salt poisoning 
and an operation similar to a Caeserian are also used," 
Montgomery added. 
"The Supreme Court in Roe vs. Wade essentially 

legalized abortion on demand," Rice said, explaining 
the legal status of abortion. He compared the decision 
to the Dred Scott case in 1857 in which the Court ruled 
that slaves were things, not people. 
Rice said, "The Court in Roe did not even think it 

necessary to decide whether the fetus is human or not,. 
saying that in either case it would not be a person 
unnPr the 14th Amendment." 
Rice strongly criticized the courts historical analysis of the meaning of the 14th amendment guarantee. "The court admitted the right to life would be primary if it was dealing with persons, but since it claimed it was not the mother's right to privacy was the deciding factor," he said: 
"The court's ruling was a lot wider than many people realize," Rice explained. "For the first three months the only thing the state can do is to require that the abortion be done by a doctor. Up until viability, the point where the fetus can survive outside the womb, the state can make regulations to protect the mother's help, as requiring it to be done in a hospital. After viability, which occurs between 24 and 28 weeks, the state can prohibit abortions if they are not needed to protect the mother's life or he~.l~h." · 
"••. there is no place you can draw the line once you admit you can take a life... " 

Rice went on to say that health was interpreted so broadly that any woman who can get a doctor to say she would suffer emotional harm from having a child can have an abortion. He concluded, "This boils down to abortion on demand and according to the Population Council's statistics it will result in 1.6 to 2.0 million legal abortions this year." 
Rice claimed that there are no actual cases any more where an abortion in the legal sense of the term is necessary to save a mother's life. Montgomery cited statistics that abortions were a greater danger to the mother than bringing the fetus to term. "In any case the problem is largely academic now that no real reason is needed." Rice pointed out. 
"The only way to reverse the courts decision," Rice ar~ued, "is to get a constitutional amendment adopted which would extend the due process and right to life guarantees of the Fifth and Fourteen Amendments to the embryo and fetus." There are two different amendment proposals before Congress now Rice explained. The Hogan Amendment extends the due process right to the fetus from the moment of con­ception while the Buckley amendment also grants these rights but is not explicit about when they begin to apply. 
"It is important that the fetus be protected from the moment of conception when its unique genetic en­dowment makes it human, since there are a number of new chemical abortificants which work very early in pregnancy," Rice pointed out. He elaborated, "upjohn has a pill licensed by the FDA called 'Prostogen-F2­Aipha which will abort the fetus any time up to six months after conception. Soome birth control pills might actually work as abortificants instead of 
·preventing conception." 
Rice stressed the grass-roots nature of the anti­abortion campaign which he claimed would insure its ultimate success. "This involves a lot of private citizens, particularly housewives who are willing to spend a lot of effort on something they believe in. It is not dire.Ued by the hierachy or restricted to any one religious group." He pointed to success in abortion referendums in Michigan and North Dakota, and thought the chances of amendment passing Congress eventually were good "based on the favorable roll call votes on subsidiary issues such as conscience clauses and item in foreign aid bills." 
Rice appealed to student to support the fight for an amendment, asking not only for work but also for prayers. 
Montgomery listed several "positive alternatives to abortion, which is basically very negative. The in­cluded adoption, special counselling of women who become pregnant outside marriage, and education of the general public. 
Rice predicted that a new battle would have to be fought soon over euthanasia, causing death in ter­minally ill patients. He mentioned a Florida bill which would allow a panel of three doctors to "pull the plug" or even use direct means to kill a patient if they thought further care would only be useful and painless if the patient was incompetent and had no relatives to decide for him. "The proponents of euthanasia will start with the most path,etic cases, just as they did with abortion and then use them as precedents," Rice ex­plained, "The problem is that there is no place you can draw the line once you admit you can ta:ke a life." 
Dr. Glasser outlines discipline program 
by Maria Gallagher 
Staff Reporter 
A 10-step "fail-safe" program for realizing the "impossible dream" of discipline was presented last night by Dr. William Glasser at O'Laughlin Auditorium last night. 
Glasser, a psychologist noted for his study of the nature of behavioral problems, claims his method of dealing with "problem" children works 100 per cent of the time if followed in chronological order .s 
"If it worked in a reform school for the 400 most delinquient girls in California, it can work in public schools," he believes. 
"But there is no easy answer to discipline problems," emphasized Glasser. "People seem to think that an easy answer to 'Why doesn't Johnny stop it?' exists somewhere, but our 5,000 to 10,000 years of experience show that no simple answer exists." 
Glasser's theory rest~ on the premise that "Johnny must know it would be good for him to "stop it"; in fact, he ought not to start it. His somewhat "revolutionary" theory departs from the traditional in that. no punishment or rewards are used to reinforce behavior. 
Punishment "doesn't work" 
"We should know by now that punishment doesn't work as a motive for good behavior," Glasser said. "If it did, it would have worked by now." 
Glasser cited the prison system as an example: "The high rate of recidivism shows that punishment is ineffective. Prisoners don't stop committing crimes because they don't think it's particularly good or beneficial to stop. If we can avert problems at the school level, we can catch some of these kids who would have been headed for prison." 
Glasser believes that our adherence to the prison and punishment treatment of behavioral problems stems from our conviction that "it's the one that's always been used and it worked for us, so let's continue to use it." 
"This is probably not true," Glasser said. "The 
reason most of us are disciplined today is most likely 
not from fear of punishment, but from the more 
positive attitude 'it pays for me to obey rules and 
regulations.' This has to be learned." 
Glasser bel~eves that discipline cannot be imposed on someone; It must be built from inside. 
"The challenge to schools is to create environment in which it can be learned," Glasser said. "We should dev~lop an atmosphere where the child will say 'This is a mce place to be-why should I want to break the rules?", 
"A democratic society depends on people doing the right thing," Glasser said. "If a large group of people don't do the right thing, that's the end of democracy and a totalitarian state is needed to enforce order. People must be taught the value of doing the right thing, because it's the basis of our country as we know it." 
The way in which a school imparts this value is of prime importance. 

"All discipline problems have at their root a child with bad image of himself, and the problems stem from the child's effort to get rid of that pain. For ~xaJ?ple, if a child constantly disrupts a Classroom, it IS his way of asking for recognition, for attention," Glasser said. "A child behaves the way he looks at himself. If he lives in a good environment which recognizes and responds to his worth, it will teach him self-discipline. Obviously punishment does not affirm a child's worth." 
Glasser is convinced that if behavioral problems are met with love and affirmation of the child's worth "he will develop self-discpline. The more opportuniti~s we create in the home and in school for children to gain love and worth, the easier the avenues are to discpline. 
"The child who learns this early will retain it throughout his life. \\'hen he sees that discpline depends on positive action on his part he will respond responsibly." 


"We should know by now that punishment doesn't work as a motive for good behavior." 


2 the observer Thursday, April 25, 1974
f 
I 
I 

warld 
briefs 
VIENNA, (UPI) -Austrian government officials said Wed­nesday that President Franz Jonas, who died early in the day after a long illness, will be buried in a state funeral Monday to be .at­tended by U.S. Vice-President Genald Ford and other foreign dignitaries. Jonas_, 74, one of eight children of an unskilled !~borer and Austria's first working class president, died seven mmutes past midnight after nine years in office. 
LONDON, (UPI) -The Soviet Union is shipping more more advanced weapons to Syria to strengthen the military posture of its Arab ally, Western defense sources said Wednesday. 
Latest evidence suggested the Russians are boosting the Syrian arsenal with ground-to-ground missiles, heavier tanks, anti-tank rockets, and MIG jets and ground to air missiles of the very latest type. 
FORT .LAUDERDALE, <UPI) -After After 96 hours and 32 minutes, Bill Campbell and Donna Weise just gave up, leaving yoga and health. food buffs Louise Heath and Vinnie Toro to claim the title "kissing champions of the world." 
SAN FRANCISCO, <UPD -Patricia Hearst called her father "pig Hearst" and her fiance a "sexist, racist pig" and said it was ridiculous to think she had been brainwashed into joining her Symbionese Liberation Army captors In a bank robbery nine days ago. In a tape recording delivered to police, Miss Hearst an­nounced "I'm a soldier of the people's army.'' 
an campus taday 
4:00p.m. lecture "alkane florescants," by dr. w. p. hellman of nd rad. lab. conference rm. free 
4:30p.m. colloquim "the art invariant of manifolds with vanishing stiefel-whitney classes," by prof. franklin peterson rm. 226 comp. center free 
7:30 charismatic intro. to charismatic renewal butler bldg. free 7-9-11 p.m. movie "godspell" washinton hall donation 8:00p.m. lecture" on reducing the ambiguity in ethics," by paul 
ramsey galvin life aud. free 7:30p.m. lecture "the renaissance icon," by sr. eva mary hooker stapelton lounge free 
8:00 p.m. lecture "morality and government," by senator margaret chase smith lib. aud. free 
8:30 meeting charismatic prayer meeting holy cross hall free 
4:30p.m. tennis match st. mary's girls varsity vs. n.d. girls varsity regina north courts at st. mary's free 
Husband and wile win toba ceo Spitting contest 
.MONTICELI:O, Ark. (UPI) ­Tim and, RI~a Frenc~ are Arkansas ~ .first family of tob~cco spitters. 
.T~n;t won t~e. accuracy diVISion of the Fir.st. Annual A k T b SP1tt c
r ~?sas o a~co mg . o~­test, and Rita, . who didn t rea.lly start. chewmg tobacco 
until  15  mmutes  before  the  
contest  began,  . ~~n  the  all- 
around female  diVISIOn.  .  

. "l.t wasn't too bad," she. said, rmsmg her mo.~th out Wit~ a cup of wat~r. It was a l~ttle hot .and a. httle sweet,., I might 
try It agam next year. ·I 000 persons who gathered
Mrs French said she learned ' . h th t everything about tobacco chew-'Tuesday mg th hat et t own 
square to watc t e con es . 
~
.........................................................................................................................................................................................~ 



I Swimming Party I 
~ sponsored by the SMC Social Commission ~ 
~ * swim from 8 to 12 in SMC's ~ ,: new pool ' ,: ~ * see movies of Chaplan, 3 stooges, ~ ~ Marx bros. & Pink Panther (8-9) ~J* OJ Steve "Dewey" Weber will play your favorite ~ ~ records for dancing ~ ~ * come for refreshments, billiards, and ping-pong ~ 
ing and spitting from her
husband, a forestry major at the University of Arkansas at 
Monticello. "I just got there and said, 'Tim, don't know what I'm
1
doJ·ng.' And he said, 'Just lean way back and give it all you
got.' So, that's what I did and it worked. It wasn't very far, but it worked." 
Both the Frenches received brass spittoons for winning their divisions. Jim Zornes of Booneville, Ark., won the distance competition with a 19.2-foot spit before a crowd of 

Glasser's ten steps 
Glasser's 10-step program promotes discipline without punishment by showing the child that someone cares about him, and helping him develop a more positive attitude about himself. It can be implemented in either the classroom or the home. Step I is done at .home. The teacher asks, "What do I do with Johnny when he acts out of or­der?" In Step 2, the teacher examines what he-she has been doing and resolves not to do it any more. Step 3--the teacher makes an effort to do one thing each day to make the child's day better. This will help him devlop more positive feelings about himself when he feels someone cares, and improve teacher-child relations. Step 4--When Johnny misbehaves, the teacher says only, "Please stop it," in a calm voice. Step 5--If Johnny doesn't stop it, the teacher asks, "What are you doing, Johnny?" His response makes no difference. The teacher then states, "Well, this is what I saw you doing," and then asks Johnny if it was against the rules. If he says no, he is told firmly that it was against the rules. Step 6--Repeat step 5 and say, "We've got to talk this over." No threat or punishment is men­tioned. This step implies: We will work this out together. Step 7 is used in the classroom when step 6 is no longer ef­fective. The teacher creates a comfortable but segregated area in the room to send Johnny to when he causes a disturbance. He remains there until he decides to return and be orderly. Step 8 involves similar areas elsewhere in the school (i.e., the principal's office) outside a classroom where the child is sent if he continues to disrupt the classroom. Again, no punish­ment or angry words are in­volved. The child is sent here until he doesn't want to sit there any more and can present a 
a plan for improving his behavior. "I'll try harder," is enough. Glasser notes that by the time one has reached this step, the 
teacher is dealing with an ex­
t 1 t h'ld d 
reme Y upse c J , an recommends giving him 
"something to eat" when he comes in. This is not a reward, Glasser emphasizes; it is merely an aid to calming him down and 
anothe effort to show him someone cares. Step 9--If the child causes a disturbance there, he is told to "Go home and take a rest" and come back the next day. His parents are contacted and urged not to punish him. Step 10--If the child continues to act out of order in the home, the 
school and the community, he 
. .
should be sent to JUVemle hall. With the cooperation of officers 

who understand the program, the child will learn without punishment that someone cares about him and his behavior will change accordingly. 
~--­

-------------~ 
The Observer is published dally during the college semestw elCcept vacations by the stUdertts of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscription~ may be purchased for Sl pw semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. Second clas~ postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 


men.., hait 1tyling men's hair Stylin 

~n$~ir Bt,tin 

WHATEVER THE
• 


r 

Felll#1L 1974 
WASHINGTON HALL 
8:00 pm, Saturday, April 27 
International Students Organization Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
ADMISSION FREE 

lt.....l.~~~~~~~.!:~l::...~~<;,j, --=-·=-----::-:-====·~~-:...~·-·_:J;:._!_..;.,~-~-·,;:,;·--:-~·-·~"'_
..="·~~~~........,....,.,.......J 

'the observer 
3 

An Tostal festivities reviewed 
by Bob Quakenbush 

Free-Picnic-by-the-Lake, Mary win the Mud Volleyball Cham­Display. But, he added, that 
Disapp-intment of the Weekend 

Staff Reporter Henner, assisted by counters Drew pionship in its brief history) doesn't mean the sponsors of Continued from Tuesday's issue Danik and Keith Lemick, decided successfully kept their string alive. Farley's horsedrawn chariot, the Grace Hall also wins this one. to have a go at the world's Also the interhall champions this Howard Hall Tractor, the Dillion After purchasing 300 "Grace Hall
Sunny Saturday was exactly as 

"chairless sit" record. 523 pairs of year, the Zoomers are already Extravaganza, and the Chairless An Tostal Team" T-shirts, the
prayed for, temperatures soared, 

aching knees later, Notre Dame calling the An Tostal Tournament Sit should go unthanked. "Their Grace Tower Gorillas were able to
breezes were gentle and a bright 

had shattered The University of "the game that Zoom built." And efforts in making An Tostal '74 are win only one event, the Jim E.
yellow sun tooli its berth in the 

Wisconsin-stout's record of 375 and since not a single member of the greatly appreciated," said Gasior. 
Brogan Memorial_~w~ar:..::d~-­
heavens. Each and every member held yet another championship of team comprised of Rich "Suds"of the An Tostal Committee which to boast Now, if only the O'Connor, Greg "Gibber" Gib­questioned had one word for Guinness Book gets wind of this. bons, Norman "Rooster" Roos,Saturday's weather-"perfect!" 

Earl "Stroke" Ponick, Jim "The
Accuracy and distance were the
Decathletes had the longest day Hard" Hardy, Bruce 'lGibby"

keys to winning the Frisbee
of all. Out of the 63 who entered the 

Gibson, and Terry "Enticin"
Tournament and Nick Weis of
An Tostal Decathlon 52 finished. 

Theisen will be lost to graduation,Howard Hall had both.
Bob Dressel, a junior from Sorin they believe their dynasty could

Awesome spectacle and a cast of 
Hall, compiled 808 points to cap­last forever.

thousands highlighted the Chariot
ture first place in the festival's John Eidt of Howard Hall bested 

race. Assembling at the grotto, the 
most demanding event. 

his opponents in the Flour Blowing 
cavalacade of nine chariots, ac­
Sophomores Rory Moran and Lou Contest and then threw the 'first of

companied by Dillon Hall's
Myers organized the event and only three committee members

trumpeters, Roman senators,
"had so much fun we would like to into the mud pit.

whipping boys, and dancing girls, 
do it again next year." 

began the parade to the An Tostal
21 teams failed to finish the Fed by Margaret Fergerson,

field amidst cheering, applause,
puzzling An Tostal Road Rally. 

Paul Hundley consumed more
laughter, and music. Fashioned
Given 62 clues to decipher and 40 blueberry pie than he ever wants to

from bicycle wheels, plywood, tin
questions toanswerabout the route see for the rest of his life in the Pie

cans, aluminum foil--two even
at the outset, 57 teams spent hours Eating Contest.

featured large metal barrels, one
on the rallytrail. But only one team Aided by two pass inteference

for the driver to stand in and the
could win the title--the men of penalties in the last 30 seconds, the 

other as a wheel--the chariots were
Flanner 8A. Mike Henke, Bill Walsh Hall football team scoredindeed a colorful sight.

Lewis, John Power, and Ken with no time remaining on theBradford completed the route in 3 The entire pageantry was 

clock to squeak out a 14-12 victoryhours, 15 minutes; were only 6 nothing less than fantastic. Farley over the guys from Morrissey intenths of a mile off; and answered Hall entered a live horse in lieu of the Touch Football Championship.
38 of the 40 questions correctly. being unable to come up with the "No decision" is all that can be
For the third year in a row (and required four male horsemen from said about this year's Tug-0-War. 
he's only a junior), Francis Charlie their residence. One of Keenan's The battle for the title turned into aPizzuro of Howard Hall is the Ye drivers even scattered pennies to battle royal as hundreds even­Olde Bike Race champion. Out­the rabble. 
tually were thrown into thedistancing 11 other racers, Pizzuro By the way, once again Charlton mudpit, many unwillingly but most pedalled the route from the circle Heston failed to show. But that prepared for the worst.
to the An Tostal field in just enough disappointment failed to daunt the The real highlight of this eventtime to beat runner-up Joe Morris spirits of Flanner's "Lug" Nat­came when the fourth floor ofof Flanner by two lengths. chway, Jim Rashid, Phil Morino, Howard Hall pitted its tractorNotre Dame's student body has Bill Fitzpatrick and Bob against the combined might ofestablished a new world's record. McCollum. In the most thrilling dozens of spectators while theTo while away thE:' time at the ever of An Tostal's "thrilling race crowd chanted "Go Irish! Beat
of races," these five won the 
Tractor!''
laurels driving the riding the self­Nixon requests admitted "ugliest chariot ever 
Humors abounded, and this is onseen." 
he level, about broken arms, Introduced by the emcee as a fingers, ankles, and bloody noses­
foreign aid 

bunch of mudslingers of the first and a Sunday afternoon inspection rank <at which time they promptly of the pit found several pieces of 
By HELEN THOMAS slung away with handfuls of mud broken glass. So next year, the UPI White House Reporter at the emcee), the Student audience is advised to stick to rules WASHINGTON (UP I) Government "Dirtballs," cap-and be careful. 
President Nixon Wednesday tained by Pat "No Date for the Everybody says the Beach Boysasked Congress to approve a Irish Wake~· McLaughlin, Student were fantastic! $5.1 billion foreign aid package Body President, engaged in a Finally, the New Irish Wake that includes $457.5 million . for friendly (?) grudge match of mud brought the An Tostal festivities to Egypt and Jordan and $350 volleyball with the Muckrakers of a close. More than six hundred million for Israel. the Notre Dame Observer cap-persons attended the Wake and 
The President also asked tained by Tom "Terrific" Drape, danced to the music of Wind­Congress to authorize an Editor-in-Chief. The two game set jammer. No unfavorable com­appropriation of $939.8 million ended in a one~ne tie, with ments were overheard, but a few for assistance to South Viet-challenges already being flung said they really enjoyed the nam, Cambodia and Laos. about regarding when and where change of pace from the traditional 
"The amounts I am request-to play the title match. The Armory-type party. During one of ing for fiscal year 1975 is a highlight of the match came when the breaks, it was announced that minimum essential to support Ray "Ex-Candidate" Capp of Mike Sazdanoff, the vice-president the responsible and construe-Student Government flung a fistful of Keenan Hall, had been elected tive American role of interna-of mud at the Observer's Fred the "'Ugliest Man on Campus."tiona! leadership and "Dr. Fear" Graver. The two cooperation, a role it is in our squared off, circled about, and The Jim E. Brogan Memorial national interest to continue to then charged each other in the 
Award
strengthen," he said. muddiest, slipperiest part of the The aid package for the fiscal volleyball pit. Both benches 
Wally Gasior has announced that year starting July 1 would emptied and the fight was on! 
Grace Hall and the St. Mary'sinclude $1.5 billion for assist-Commenting afterward, Peggy Student Government have won the a nee to international develop-"Crash" (since changed to 1974 Jim E. Brogan Memorial 
ment institutions. The rest is "Splash") Lawlor of the Observer Award for on
collaborating the for military and economic aid. said, "I've heard of fighting dirty Frivolous Friday Fireworks 
Egypt's allotment of $25° but this is ridiculous." million, virtually the only Once the comedians had American aid it will have departed, the serious contenders received since 1967, was ear-took to the pit. The Holy Cross marked for clearing the Suez Hogs took three games, but the Canal, repairing war damage to aefending champion Pangborn cities along the waterway and Zoomers <the only team ever to 


~h·NOM1ttNATIONS 
I 
FOR GSU 
Now being accepted lor Vice-President and Secretarv-Treasurer. All interested Grads see Bill Lavage, Memorial Library or Paul Bolduc, 313NS ~-~·~!~~ns ~~il-~~--_____j 
The Observer·is now taking applications for· 
Assistant Advertising Manager 
This is a paid position 5 days per week 7 hours per day excellent position for wife of student information call 7 471 between 10 & 5 
Attention Engineering Students 
Applications being taken for 
Student Representative to the 
Engineering College Council 
If interested, please bring name and brief statement of purpose to Joint Engineering Council mailbox (room 22 Engineering Building) by 4:30 Wed., May 1 
NOW RENTING c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:
M 
+SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOMU' APARTMENTS 
s 
+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ DISHWASHER +RANGE 

v 
+ 
REFRIGERATOR 


+ GARBAGE DISPOSAL I + TENNIS COURT 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM
E 
CAMPUS! 
"APARTMENTS WITH
w 
THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south be · 

ATTENTION ARTS AND LETTERS 
Present Freshman, Sophomores, and Juniors. Applications for the '74-75 
1 
A&L STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL 
l 1 ' 
are now being accepted. Each applicant must write a brief statement-­one typewritten page or less--on why the person would be interested and qualified. Please include present class year, address, and phone number 
and submit it to the ' 
DEAN'S OFFICE, ROOM 137 O'SHAUGHNESSEY, NO LATER THAN THURSDAY, APRIL 25 AT 4:PM 

w: Ltbe .·. ~,P~~.-9fJ:.P.QQ;tJI:JJ,,,,...,~ 


f A. the observer Thursday, April 2s, 1974 
Meeting at Indianapolis 




InPIRG proposes incorporation 
by Mary Janca 
Staff Reporter 

Proposed incorporation and plans surrounding it highlighted the InPIRG state meeting last Saturday in Indianapolis. 
InPIRG, the Indiana Public Information Research Group, researches environmental and consumer injustices, and in­vestigates false, deceptive ad­vertising, explained Mark Clark, member of the ND InPIRG Board of Directors. 
The incorporation proposal calls for the establishment of two separate corporations. One will be non-political, dealing with research and education, and for which contributions are tax deductable. The other will be political in nature, but con­tributions to it will not be tax­deductable; said Clark. 
"Incorporation will make us a 

state-wide, tax-exempt, non-profit 
organization," he stated. 
Presently, InPIRG is not a state­wide organization. "There are various organizations at various schools," Clark said, "but there is no state organization." 
These schools include Indiana U. at Bloomington, Earlham College, Notre Dame, Indian Central College, Ball State, and Valporasio University. 
Of these schools, he continued, only IU and Earlham have been active for the past two years, having received the approval of their adminsistration and student bodies. Notre Dame and Indiana Cenral are now seking ad­ministrative approval, while Valparaiso and Ball State are petitioning students for their ap­proval of the organization. 
The InPIRG director and at­
torney of Indiana U. at 
Bloomington have been acting as 
state director and attorney. With 
incorporation, explained Clark, a 
professional state staff will need to 
be established. 
Thus, at last weekend's meeting, a state staff, composed of a state director, secretary, attorney, project director, and campus director was created. These positions will be full-time· jobs, with salaries ranging from $5,000­$10,000 annually, he said. Selection of staff members will be made at the next state meeting May 18. 

"The professionals will help to maintain stability. They have the knowledge to fight court cases, and to organize on a state-wide level," explained Clark. 
A committee was drawn up on Saturday to search for a state director, he noted. 
Another reason for incorporation !is to allow InPirg to handle funds, 'he said. Clark estimates that InPIRG will handle between 
70,000 and $80,000 in contributions and grants next year. 
Plans for incorporation were 
drawn up at the first state meeting 
by the state board, which was 
composed of representatives of 
Indiana U. at Bloomington, In­
diana Central College, and 
Earlham College. 
In the last four months, students 
at Indiana Central College, Notre 
Dame, Ball State University and Valporaiso University have form ed InPIRG groups on their campuses and anticipate the start-1 up of their own projects this summer and fall. Two of the new groups, at Indiana Central College and at Notre Dame have already statred to work on prescription; drug pricing surveys, and the students at ICC have proposed a study of the controversy over Highland Reservoir as their majo~ summer project. 
The proposal, continued Clark, was turned over to lnPIRG's at­torney for review and approval. Within the next week copies of the1 proposal will be sent to each campus InPIRG director for their signature. 
InPIRG members also decided Saturday to open a summer office at Indianapolis, staffed by the state director, secretary, and attorney, to work out the budget and plan projects for next fall, 
1

stated Clark. 
Final plans for InPIRG's at­tendance at Standard Oil's stockholders' meeting this Thursday were also discussed. 
Their role in Church stressed 
Catholic Universities are praised 
In a time of abrupt and fun­damental change, the Catholic Church needs the Catholic University more than ever as a source of leadership and scholarship, the president of the University of Notre Dame told editors of religious publications yesterday. 
Court order limits FBI 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The FBI cannot store records of persons who were picked up but not actually arrested by police, an appeals court has ruled, ordering the criminal record of a California man destroyed. 
A three judge panel of the 

U.S. Court of Appeals Tuesday ordered the FBI to expunge its criminal files of all records of a man who was picked up by police, but not charged, nine years ago. 
It ordered the criminal 

record destroyed but said his 
fingerprints could be retained 
in a non-criminal file without 
any reference to how they were 
obtained. 
The judges ruled that the FBI has "an obligation" to screen all information it receives from others before it is filed in the agency's massive records sys­tem. 
The court ordered the agency to destroy the records of Dale 
B. Menard who was detained for two days in Los Angeles in 1965 on suspicion of burglary but not charged. 
HIGH ADVENTURE STARTS AT 2500 FEET 
Your first jump course $50.00 takes only 3 hours. 
World's largest and safes.t.
Our 16th year. 
Over 230,000 jumps. 23,000 First jumps. Free brochure. 
PARACHUTES INC., CRAWFORDSVILLE CENTER 
1011on ant ,1o1., 
~  RR No. 7, Municipal Airport  
gg  Crawlordnllle, lndllftl 47933  
CJ  Phone: ~17-3&qq253  

In a speech to the joint national convention of the Catholic Press Association and the Associated Church Press, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., said that the nascent Church of the future can be seen on the Catholic campus. "It is no mistake that the best of the presently changed Catholic Church is completely at home in the modern Catholic university," he said.'' All universities are essentially open societies, sear­ching, learning, communicating, caring, criticizing." 
Notre Dame's president said the Catholic university could be a chief source of the leadership needed to "direct, sponsor and support many of the new movements in the Church." And he said its research and scholarship was sorely needed as the Church seeks sophisticated approaches to complex, global problems. He downplayed the possibility of tension between the hierarchy and the Catholic university, noting that ec­clesiastical and academic leaders "may well be operating on a dif­ferent set of tracks, but there are multiple areas where the tracks converge-social justice, human 
development. medical ethics. 
culture and the arts, political action and continuing education." 
He described the Church of the future as more decentralized in 
organization and more collegial in governance and predicted in­creased political action by for­merly passive Catholics who 
are "beginning to feel .set upon,
ignored, even badly used and unappreciated." He contrasted the clout of 50 million American Catholics with that of a much smaller Jewish population, noting that Catholics got neither of the two things they wanted from the federal government-help for parochial schools and no liberalization of abortion laws­while the Jewish leadership achieved its goals of massive aid to Israel and trade leverage on Russia to open emigration policy. He said Catholics in coming years "will be less ready to be promised help by a President, who, once he had their votes, hardly lifted a finger to help them or their two 

causes." 
Hesburgh also had some advice for the large number of Catholics active in the anti-abortion movement. "We must be ef­fectively concerned and thoughtfully articulate about abortion," he said, "not backing unworkable solutions, not engaging in calling the opposition murderers, not being politically naive." He warned that the movement will repel persons of good will if it does not have "the modicum or civility needed for the rational discussion of 
disagreements in a pluralistic
democracy." At one point in the speech when he was discussing polarization in the Church, Father Hesburgh had 
sharp words for what he termed a 
"narrow-minded, super-orthodox 
and ultra-righteous segment of the 
Catholic press," suggesting that 
"their search-and-destroy tactics 
are unworthy both of the press and 
of Catholicism " 
His address was to a convention banquet in the Brown Palace Hotel in Denver, Colorado. 

"No film since Kubrick's 'Space Odyssey' has used such a blazing display of photographic ingenuity to suggest a time beyond tomorrow." -Charles Champlin 
L.A. TIMES 
Starts Friday 

:l!ll1.Bii-2JJ:t 
MISHAWAKA AVfNUf AT lOTH 

~ 
,-.:
!~ 
,-.: 
~
! 
,-.: 
:illl 
! ,-.: ~ 
,-.: 
·------------·-----.i ~ 
w RESERVATIONS





ND ~ 
I 284-4176 r-. 
r 
I 
~ 

Student • Faculty 
11
SMC 

ND·SMC Staff 
i 
I ~

THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 


I ~ 
John Gay's ribald musical romp 
I ~ 

Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m.
r\ 

O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
~ 

ATTENTION 
ALL 

RADUATIN STUDENTS 
Measurements 
will be taken 
for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
Thursday 
April 25 
and 
Friday 

April 26 
between 
9:00-4:00 
at the 
NOTRE DAME 



BOOKSTORE 
.._...._,...._...._...._...._,...._...._,,...._...._...._..._...._..,....._...._...._...._...._...._.._~ 
.................................................................................................................. 
~ ~ :illl 
. N C ver ~~ 
,-.: 
:illl
ch0 0 I I I ,-.:
a r .ge e e ! ,-.: 
e 
~ 
:illl 
~

TON I G H T :illl~,-.: 
,-.: 
Live Music ~ b ! 
y the Mark ~ 
!
Bloom Band ~ 
~ 

,-.: 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
.......----~------~--~---~­
•

rena1ssance man at notre dame 
--~ 

Thursday, April 25, 1974 the observer 
by sheila carney 

Don't look now, but there's a Renaissance man alive and flourishing on the Notre Dame campus. As a painter, muralist, liturgist, lecturer, and an expert .in .the ancient art of stained-glass designmg, Professor Robert Leader of the Art Department brings a breath of fr~sh air to the University by being a generalist ~ath~r than a specialist. The students recogmze his versatility, and this is why upwards of 500 regularly take his cla~ses .in art. each semester. Within the Umversity he 1s best known for the enthusiasm he brings to art history, but outside he is most often known for his expertise in designing stained-glass. 
Becoming a teacher and stained-glass artist happened by chance. Ro~ert Le~der happened to be the right man m the nght place at the right time. In World War II he asked to be sent to camouflage school, but instead found himself sent to flame-thrower and demolitions school by the Marines. Although he wasn't particularly fond of this school he had been brought up on the work ethic 'that you did the best you could in everything. He apparently .did very well, f~r the Marines made him an mstructor. To hiS surprise, Leader discovered that he enjoyed teaching. 
After the war, Robert Leader went to Yale 
to continue his studies in art that had begun 
at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. Here, he 

• ••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••: an emphasis on line and color all prepared 
: : • pOef1• C S : : • m
• 0 n 
0 1
• •
• 
U. . I t

• 
A special Notre Dame mversity ec ure :entitled "Poetics and Interpretation" will 

• 
be delivered by Rene Wellek, Sterling :Professor Emeritus of Comparative 

• 
Literature at Yale University, on Monday :evening April 29 at 8:30p.m. in the Notre 

• 
Dame Memorial Library Auditorium. :Professor Wellek's lecture is jointly 

• 
sponsored by the Department of English :and the Department of Modern and 

• 
Classical Languages, College of Arts and :Letters; everyone is invited to attend free of echarge. Following the lecture, a reception :in his honor will be held at 10:00 p.m. in the 

• 
Notre Dame University Faculty Club, 

• 
where Professor Wellek will meet in­:formally with faculty and students. His first :visit to the Notre Dame campus will also 

• 
continue through part of Tuesday April 30. : Rene Wellek is the leading Comparative eLiterature scholar and critic in the United :States at this time, as well as one of the most 

•prominent 
voices in the international field. :In addition to numerous articles and essays 

• 
published over the last forty years on the :comparative study of literature as a unified ediscipline, Mr. Wellek's most influential :work has ·been A History of Modern 

• 
Criticism (1750-1950), published by Yale :University Press, of which four volumes e have already appeared and the final fifth 

•volume 
is currently in process dealing with :20th-Century critics of literature. His 

• 
earlier book written jointly with Austin · :Warren, Theory of Literature (3rd revised 

• 
edition, Harcourt 1962), has long been a 



was particularly interested in the history of architecture and the role of <1rt in the context of architecture. One of his teachers stressed the Italian Renaissance ideal of the artist as a versatile man. While not realizing it at the time, this indoctrination ~n catholicity was later to have an effect on his 
career. 
After graduate work at Illinois, Leader was hired by Clark College in Dubuque Iowa to reorganize the art department. While there a local Monsignor came to see him. The Monsignor needed someone to design the stained-glass windows for his church and wondered if this new artist with the Yale education could do it. Since Leader had no experience in this area, he started to decline the offer, but remembering one of the mottos that had been drilled into him at Yale, "If you come to us, we can make it," he decided to give the project a serious try. 
This decision wasn't quite as cocky as it 
sounds. Leader had always been interested 
in art in the context of architecture, and 
had, in fact, been sponsored at Yale by a 
Boston architect. As a child, he remembers 
studying the large, stained-glass windows in 
his parish church while waiting in line with 
all the other children on Saturday mornings 
to go to confession. This early fascination 
with the light and color of the glass, his 
study of the history of architecture, and the 
large scale painting work he had done with 


• him for the task of designing in this new 

: medium.h II k •Leader designed the windows, pic)ted the
WI.f we e :glass, and made au the run-scale drawings. 
• 
He subcontracted the fabrication of the job : to a glass studio in Minnesota which worked 

• 
from his full-sized drawings. After com-



ndoy n •ght :pleting this work and two years at Clark
•
College, Leader was hired to teach art at 

• 
Notre Dame in 1953. 

• 
A short time after beginning work at


•
• 
Notre Dame, two men from the studio which : had done the glasswork in the church in 

• 
Iowa approached him to ask him to do the : designing for the windows of a church m 

• 
Nebraska. He agreed, but before he begnn : the work, he spent the summer in Europe 

• 
studying stained-glass in England and : France. This was to be the first of many 

• 
study trips abroad. Returning with new : enthusiasm, he was able to design windows 

• 
which united the knowledge and skill of the : old masters with the needs of a con­

• 
temporary church. : Since that time, Professor Leader has 

• 
designed glass for about 70 buildings : ranging from private homes to banks to 

• 
mauseleums, although by far, most of his : work is done in churches. He sees himself as 

• 
a free-lance liturgical designer, and locally : has designed windows for the Keenan­

• 
Standord Hall chapel on the Notre Dame : campus, the chapel at St. Mary's Academy, 

• 
St. Matthew's Catholic Cathedral in South : Bend, St. Thomas' in Elkhart, St. Thomas 

• 
More and Visitation Church in Munster, as : well as murals in Little Flower Church in 

• 
South Bend and the penthouse in I Notre . : Dame Memorial Library. 



_ • In the last twenty years, the style of also conducting courses at Indiana• stained-glass designing has changed con­University for graduate and undergraduate: siderably. The general style of the 1950's students. Mr. Wellek received his Ph.D. in• consisted of windows which had figurative Comparative Literature at King Carlus: designs, such as madonnas and crucifixions, University in Prague in 1926, and before • while the art of the 60's became less going to Yale in 1946 he taught at the: figurative and more symbolic. In the late universities of Princeton, London and Iowa,e 60's and early 70's the art has become more 
:favored source and guide for students of among other schools. At Yale University he: abstract as the realization that the primary 
• 
literature, and a secular scripture for was the Chairman and Director of • use of the window is one of a light tran­: graduate students in the Comparative. Graduate Studies in Comparative: smitter became more widespread. 

• 
Literature field. Throughout his long Literature from 1959 to 1972, and in that field • Materials used in the work have also :career, Rene Wellek's wide learning and he has since 1952 held a Sterling: changed. Glass is picked for its own 

• 
sound judgment have been equaled only by Professorship, the principal faculty honor • aesthetic beauty, and is rarely sprayed or :his gracious humanity and his devotion to that Yale University can bestow. Mr.: painted. At least one-half of Leader's work 

• 
the personal as well as professional welfare Wellek has received honorary degrees from • has been with slab glass. This glass is two to :of his colleagues and students. ·ten other universities, including Oxford,: three inches thick, and the pieces have been 

• 
Professor Wellek is currently in residence Harvard, Rome, Columbia, Louvain and • faceted by chipping them with a hammer. :at Indiana University in Bloomington as the Michigan. He is an active member of many: They are then set in place with epoxy resin, 

• 
visitng Patten Lecturer for Spring Semester professional societies in this country and • rather than the lead which is used with the 

•1974. 
In addition to delivering the Patten abroad, and a Founding Editor of the: sheet-glass type. :Lecture Series later to be published, he is leading journal Comparative Literature. • The art of the 70's is a very pure art in 

• 
: which the inherent beauty of the material is I ,e allowed to shine through. It's an attitude of 





cotning soon: 

<Sketch by Bob McMahon) 
directness that can be found in all aspects of the culture as man begins to look at nature as beautiful in itself, instead of trying to improve upon it. 
The history and purpose of stained-glass has been widely misunderstood. The common belief is that the windows were used primarily to teach an illiterate people the principles of their faith. However, common sense would discount this theory because the windows are often seventy feet above the heads of the people, making it impossible for a person to "read" their story. 
In reality, Leader claims, the windows had a three-fold purpose. First of all, they were a form of votive art. In the Middle Ages, a person or group of people, and often a guild, would donate a window to the church. These windows were considered a gift to God, and the fact that God knew who had given it, as well as everyone else in the town, was a major impetus for building stained-glass windows. Another important reason for the windows was the change in emotions that different colored light can bring about in an architectural space. When 
a. person entered a medieval church, he received a baptism of light which awed him, and electrified the place. The didactic subject matter of the windows ran a poor third as a purpose for creating the stained­glass. 
Today it is the second purpose, the "Baptism of Light" that causes man to build church with stained-glass windows. The window itself is not meant to be read, it is only a filter, a light transmitter; the visual and psychological effect it has is the im­portant factor. "When I hear the word 'stained glass,' I envision a space. I think of colored light. The focus isn't thf panes of glass, it's what happens behind the glass," Leader said. 
Leader feels that seeing the beauty of a 
stained-glass window doesn't have a lot to 
do with the physical eye, but with the "eyes 
in your heart and soul." The ~ual is to create 
a special place for worship in a modest way. 
Man is hit by so much that is fraudulent on 
the outside that he nef'ds and desires an 
honest place to worship. The job of the artist 
who works in sacred art is then to design a 
special place where people will be elec­
trified by the atmosphere and beauty, 
rather than by noise and confusion. For 
Professor Leader, this is done by designing 
windows with color and line to transform the 
light inside the building so that the people 
are transfigured by the "baptism of light." 
In his art, Professor Leader believes in honor and honesty, and the work ethic. He tries to make a synthesis of the verbal and the manual. His versatility doesn't just happen; he works at it. 
a preview of the freshman humanities festival... 
.;.:'I
' I •' ; 

the horror, the horror 
··.-·. • • .. • • : .•· __J>l. ,. .._......,.,. 1''-" i'U' A....·,• . • ,• 
·.·' .a!';s,:r· ..* _, ,. ;-;• < 
, .... •' tTt.• ... t.W<tllN'· .. .R-'1 ...,. 11-li'~.l..-, .. ""' ... 



The addition of a 
Point­Counterpoint 
deletion 
Editor: 
I w~Iit to express my ap­preciation for the opportunity to contribute my letter to "Point­Counterpoint Which appeared in The Observer for April 23. I was a little dissapointed though, that the last paragraph was omitted, doubtless for the valid journalistic reason that you ran out of space. I felt that it was the most important part of the letter, and that's why 
Iput it in the anchor position. 
Sincerely yours, James P. Danehy 
.. Editors' Note: Here is the reprillt of the omitted part of Dr. Danelly's letter. 
IIi the solemn mass last Sep­tember which consecrated this academic year the Provost of the University expressed his belief that the Christian presence in this institution would be largely the result of indefinable, but never­theless recognizable, attitudes and actions flowing there from on the part of the faculty. I subscribe to every word of that sermon and I believe that this letter is full consistent with it. Returning to the note of cooperation, with which I opened this letter, would it not be a wonderfully Christian example to set for the entire University comunity if our large class demonstrated that it refused any longer to tolerate cheating? 
Party problem 
one for Indiana 
Editor: 
Over the summer Mr. Faccenda, John Macheca and the Central Staff spent most of their time developing a philsophy of Student Affairs and rewriting the rules 

which were presented to the SLC 
for approval. The recent Court 
ruling will force a change in the 
rules and the general policy regarding parties and alcohol. The immediate result was a change in plans for the Irish Wake and an emergency meeting of the SLC to discuss the revised rules. The immediate effect was a disap­pointment for Tom Eichler, Ron Paja and Wally Gasior who had worked. so hard and long to make the An Tostal conclusion a super time. Students who had planned parties for the weekend found out that permission was no longer present while the SLC discussed what to do. 
Perhaps the greatest disap­pointment comes to Mr. Faccenda and John Macheca who have devoted so much of their time in an effort to improve the social at­mosphere on campus. If anyone questions their sincerity they need only talk to someone who has worked with Dean Mecheca in preparation for a party. His concern for the social problems at Notre Dame is encouraging yet the full results of his efforts will never been seen until the State of Indiana lowers the drinking age. As someone who attempted in vain last year to get permission to serve 
one glass of wine at the Farley Striders banquet in Stepan Center it was quite apparent that Mr. Faccenda and Dean Macheca had recognized the need for hall gatherings and large parties. The State has dealt a severe blow to a wanting social life and a Student Affairs Philosophy which was willing to take a chance where students were willing to accept responsibility for their party. 
I for one want to express my gratitude to all the people on the SLC who worked long hours on the rules and a dedicated Student Affairs staff who recognize<j a problem and devoted their energies toward implementing a policy genuinely created to make a social life part of the campus. The efforts of students interested in changing the policy which the University will be forced to adopt should now be directed at the In­diana State House rather than the Administration Building as should the efforts of the Student Affairs Staff. 
Chris Singleton 
From both sides 
Dear Editor: 
I am a student worker at the North Dining Hall and would like to reply to the Jetter which referred to the service at the South Dining Hall during Easter break. 
I too stayed here over the break and only one wing of the S.D.H. was open but this did not seem to cause any apparent problems. As a matter of fact, there was less waiting in line, and the food seemed tastier than the food served in the N.D.H. Students were able to find places to sit and eat in a dining hall which has a good atmosphere. Since only 1500­1600 students stayed on campus for the short break, only one wing was needed to accomodate the "inordinately high" number of students. Besides, the other wing was being cleaned at the time. 
Concerning the discourtesy of one of the employees, I am unaware of the isolated incident mentioned. And though the student should have bussed the tray correctly, the employee who cursed him was wrong. However, most of the time the workers at the dining halls are courteous and helpful. 
Finally, the N.D. Food Services tries to do what they can on a minimal budget. The dining halls are appropriated 80 cents per meal for every student. That is only $16.80 per week per student. With the dining halls trying to serve more than 4500 students three times a day, seven days a week on this budget, the food is just not going to be like that served at home. And since the "food ecology" program has begun, most students are now taking it upon themselves to be more conscious of waste and destruction. I certainly hope the students who complain so vehemently about the quality of food took the few minutes to fill out one of the quesionnaires a few weeks ago. This helps the management ascertain what you do or do not like. 
Undoubtedly, the food service can be improved. But students must cooperate and meet the management halfway. The use of feedback cards, questionnaires, and less waste and destruction provides this opportunity. I have seen the food service fromboth the outside and inside of the operation, and most workers do a good job. The rest is up to us. 
Sincerely, Joseph P. LaFlare 
-Hindsi'dht 


Registration-go-round 
-------dave hayes-
Dim hall lights reveal a corridor strewn with bodies. An amorphous mass of humanitylitters the floor with an order that is only faintly discernable. The end of the line is certainly not apparent but its origin is betrayed by ~ few students who cuddle the department door with an affection merited by their long wait. A coveted computer card will soon be the reward of these early-risers; the dreams of a much praised course will be fulfilled with the secretary's arrival. Shortly thereafter, however, these lucky few will no longer gloat as the nightmarish realization that they must find four additional courses dawns on them. 
Further back in this same line are those who cannot assure them­selves that their wait will not be in vain. Busy minds, boggled by the reality that the seven o·-clock alarm may have sounded too late, count and recount the heads that separate them from their destination. Consternation written on their faces, they clutch the "Form 50" in one hand and leaf through the course-offerings list with the other. Amid grumblings of vaguely-articulated sense of inequity about the whole registration procedure, last minute consultations are held and the low-down--on professors is solicited. 
Few experiences can claim to be as frustrating as registration often is. Waiting in line for an hour only to discover it leads into the wrong department; watching the last card of a desired course being handed to the guy in front of you; forgetting to bring along the "Form 50,-or to have it signed -these are the aggravations that make registration day such a dreaded event. But it is, finally, the diluted course selec­tion that often is the result of the line-waiting hassles which is the primary source of frustration. Once a targeted course has been closed, a student flounders in ignorance as he attempts to find a replacement. Other course offerings in the same department may be a mystery to him, and a desperate decision to opt for a particular course may be ultimately predicated only on the fact that it is offered at a convenient time. 
When registration day is done a student's course schedule for the ensuing semester may appear a hodgepodge of also rans." What began as the calculated pursuit of a few select courses may have ended in the random, flip-a-coin choice of schedule fillers. Thus while it seems inevitable that registration must produce the frustration of closed courses, it is tragic that alternative courses are grabbed with no real knowledge ?f what the implications might be. 
Certainly no student can ever completely anticipate the content of a future course offering, but some measure of guidance is essential so that the personal worth of a semester's classes is not decided on fate alone. Course Evaluation Booklets are a help but they can hardly hope to be comprehensive when an overworked and time-pressed staff is expected to give a definitive judgment about every course and its professor. "Meet your Major" nights are a good idea in fostering general subject-area directional aid, but they don't provide specific course advice. 
What is needed are more university-sponsored informational ser­vices. Advice comes by word of mouth rather than from upper­classmen or graduate student advisors who have been through the mill; departmental course descriptions give little clue to a professor's classroom techniques. Only if such a network of ex­perienced advisors is available can an interested student consider each course in a truly evaluative light. Instead he must now hope that his next door neighbor is a curricula expert. 
But while the need for such an advisor ~system is mandatory, there is a deeper problem to consider which no informational framework can cope with. It is one thing to provide the mechanism necessary, quite another to facilitate its use. When rigid requirement-fulfilling timetables cannot be obviated a student often has no choice about tne 
courses he must take. Moreover, he may· be inclined to find "jock" courses and sacrifice his free electives to such deliverances from the grindstone. The criteria of judging the value of a course ultimately belongs to the individual, and so long as a demanding course is automatically considered out of the question, it is the student's fault that he cannot find what he wants. 
The lines during this registration period will not be any shorter than before. Mangled bodies will cry out for a scape goat upon which they can vent their frustrations. Yet aimless and incoherent mutterings will do no good -if the problem is guidance or requirement restric­tions, the university must be petitioned to that end and an adequate advisor system institued and course flexibility engendered. But if the source of frustration is an internal evaluative standard which at­titudinally prohibits any demanding electives, that is a personal fault that no policy decision can hope to reverse. 
-the observer______ 
Early Morning Editor: AI Rutherford Asst. Early Morning Edfitors: Mike Kulczycki and Dan Sanchez Layout Staff: Ginny Faust, Tim O'Reilly, 
Carolina Day Editors: Gregg Bangs, Rom Russo Copy Reader: Bob Quakenbush and Jeanie 
Murphy Features Page: J.R. Baker Compugraohic: Gary Allietta 
Night Controller: Phil Orscheln Typists: Barb Norcross, Barb Haug, Tom Modglin, John Flannigan, Gary Allletta Sports~~g Gorgen--end P«.Jt.;Lawlor 

Thursday, 
the observer 
With the warm weather comes a renewed Interest in clothing 
·that allows comfort to travel hand-In-hand with high fashion. The hum-drum drab features of winter clothes are shucked for the flashy, personal expressiveness of springwear. With this in mind, Point-Counterpoint presents a look at: 
Fashion At Notre Dame 

The "Wet Look" is expected to make a strong comeback this season, with a devilish "do-it­ Out for a night on the town? Ready to trip the light "fan­tastique"? The by-word for this  Let's looK at this carefully. "Nonchalance" seems to be the key word for this style; blue denim  
yourself" twist.  Once allowed to  "do your  own  thing, bambino!"  cuffed pants, skinny belt, ruffled  
dry, these garments will  assume  The couple on the left is pictured  sleeves, open-collared  shirt,  and  
the form and tightness of a "second skin", which is not so bad  in the more standard arrangement, which is not as In­ that all-important hair to top it all off.  "windblown" It may seem  
if you  happen  to  be  dissatisfied  teresting  as  the  picture  on  the  totally casual, but one look at the  
with the one you're wearing now.  right, but which does carry a bit  Bonwit Teller price tag tells you  
Ah, for the days of gold lame and  more of the old "coup de grace".  differently. Lamp post is optional,  
toreador pants.  (Mis-matched socks are optional.)  though useful for the outdoors.  

······················································································································~ 

Everyone has some kind of roots Hats have been on the upswing to get back to, and this ordinary, over the last few years. People
The noble tattoo, once restrlc'reu
everyday, run-of-the-mill college from all walks of life, from John
to wear by drunken sailors and
student is no exception. Tom Wolfe Shumate to these lowly students,
"Hell's Angels", is expected to
calls this "Rural Chic"-, and are becoming concerned with what
gain new acceptance among the
relates it to the revolt of middle­covers the head, beyond hair. The
"nouveau riche". Something
class kids. By wearing clothes problem is that designers and
similar to the design shown here
such as these, they openly show stylists are locked into the 
was seen worn by Princess Lee
how they are forsaking the values "Gatsby-St log-Godfather" look,
Radziwill at Truman Capote's
and mores of their urban up­and haven't developed anything
Christmas party last February on
bringing. A lot of the people we original since. Look for a revival
the Riviera. Oh, the tastes of the
talked to said that they wear them of Mickey Mouse ears among the
beautiful people!
because they feel good. So much more freakish elements. 



~----~~~ ~----------------­
the observer Thursday, April 25, 1974
8 

Dur-ante performs at Waldorf 

With more than 1,000 persons Heart." applause. taking a few steps with the aid
NEW YORK (UPI) -The 

sitting hushed in the Grand "Now you know the meaning of parallel bars. He told UPI
Schnozzola won three standing There was thunderous ap­
Ballroom of the Waldorf As­of the word star," columnist senior editor Vernon Scott in an
ovations Tuesday from one of plause from the standing
toria hotel, Durante, his voice Bob Considine, the master of interview earlier this year he
the toughest audiences in town. audience after each just as
barely above a whisper at ceremonies, told the audience still practices the piano a few
there had been when William

times, sang two songs while of editors and publishers. minutes each day.
Jimmy Durante, 81 and Randolph Hearst Jr. presented
seated in his wheelchair on the Carol Channing, the Broad­Durante, who started in show
partly paralyzed as the result Durante with the Banshees'­
floor of the ballroom. way singer and actress, pre­business in 1910 as a piano
of a stroke in late 1972, made a :•'silver Lady" award as an 
sented one of her glittering fake player at Coney Island in his
dramatic and nostalgia-filled He wore his familiar crushed outstanding performer. The 
diamond rings to Durante at native New York, marked his 
appearance at the 39th annual felt hat, cocked to one side, and Hearst Corporation sponsors 
the conclusion of her song 81st birthday Feb. 10.
luncheon of the Banshees, held there were moist eyes -and the luncheon. 
"Diamonds Are A Girl's Best His partners in 1930 were
each year in conjunction with many tears -all around the "Thank you, folks," Durante, 
Friend." Eddie Jackson and Lou Clay­
the American Newspaper Pub­room as he slowly sang "lnka­his voice quavering, said after 
"Our Jimmy is the brightest ton. Hearst, in presenting the
lishers Association convention. Dinka-Doo" and "Young at each of the prolonged rounds of 
diamond of them all," she said award, said he first met to another round of applause Durante in those days.Immediate response needed for Durante who sat smiling. "I am proud to give you this 
He talked to dozens of the award -and anything else we 
editors and publishers who can give you," Hearst said. 
came forward later. Durante and his wife of 14
Internship applicationsoffered 
Durante's left arm and left years, Marjorie, make their 
leg were partly paralyzed home in Beverly Hills, Calif.
Phyllis Mosley half of their classs. Willemin in the Placement Bureau 
following the stroke in Novem­Mrs. Durante was with him
Staff Reporter d) Nominees must be citizens of Office located in room 222 of the 
ber, 1972. He has shown signs Tuesday fighting back the tears
It is imperative that students the United States. administration building or call 
of pro~ress in recent weeks, during the performance.
interested in the Federal Summer Interested students may see Dr. 6255. 
Internship Program contact the Placement Bureau Office im­mediately as the names of nominees must be sent to Washington this week. 
The positions offer practical experience in the administrative, professional, or technical career fields for which a college degree is the usual basic requirement for employment. These positions begin in June and last until the beginning of the fall semester. Salary ranges from $138-$191 per week <grades 4,5,7). Nominees will be screened by a special faculty committee. 
There are specific requirements for each position. However, there are also minimum requirements for all positions. These are: 
a) 
Nominees must have completed 60 semester hours by June 1,1974 or be a current graduate student. 

b) 
Undergraduates are required to be in the upper third of their classs. 

c) 
Graduates must be in the top 


Ski tea~n selects new officers 
John Goss and Stan G. Ripcho, both from Zahm Hall, were elected Co-Presidents of the Notre Dame Ski Club and Team. Connie Esposito from Farley Hall was elected Vice-President. 
Because so few club and team 
members were able to attend the 
election meeting on April 2, it was 
decided to hold the election by mail 
ballot. The race for President was 
neck-to-neck and ended in a tie. 
The club and team are one 
organization sponsoring 
recreational and competitive 
programs. The Co-Presidents will 
manage the ski team, and the Vice­
President will direct the 
recreational trips for the club. 
Cocaptains for the men and women's racing teams will be elected by each unit next winter. 


EMERY AIR FREIGHT 
Makes going home easyIll 
1. 
Pick up at your dorm 

2. 
Deliver at your home ·anywhere in the free world 


for details call: 


233-3127 

f, 
• -• ---.... .._ . ' .........• ••..' : l ·, • • . • .. ­
L_:_:::.:.:::...::.:...:.:.._________:____:~~:::!:.:..I.:::.:::~·:=:::..::.::·~·::·:::~~::::::===:s~::::;:;;;;;..· ~.---...-.. '·.--· .........·.· ,· ........ 
WE REALLY MOVE OOR TAILANDYOORS TO LOSANGELES 




FOR$126. 

($l41ess than anybody's Coach fare) 
throughout our route system. So depending where home is, it may cost you less to fly Continental. So call your travel agent, our partner in getting things done, or Continental at 686-6500. We can probably get you where you live-for less. 
V.Je reaDy ll'X7Ve our tail for you. 

CONTINENTAL AIRUNES 
The Proud .Birdwith·the Odden . 

We also have Economy service to DENVER $ 72 SAVE $10 COLORADO SPRINGS $ 72 SAVE $10· EL PASO $ 93 SAVE $12 ONTARIO, CALIF. $126 SAVE $14 The only non-stop Economy service to ALBUQUERQUE $ 86 SAVE$ 9 And the only Economy service to KANSAS CITY $ 39 SAVE$ 4 
Fares include tax. 
We're the only airline to offer Economy fares 

Thursday,A~pr~il~2=s~,~19~74~----------~t~h~e~·~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r--~9 
Center cites tornado precautions 
apathy towards a tornado watch,

to suggest that people should windows are closed, an explosive
by John DeCoursey Ostby said, "People shouldn't be·
position themselves in the south­effect could result if a tornado
Staff Reporter west corner of the basement, but went directly over the house." apathetic to being in a watch area. Tornadoes cover a small area in
now we suggest that people get in

With the coming of spring the the most secure corners where no Discussing the difference bet­the few minutes that they are : possibility of tornadoes occuring ween a tornado watch and war­touching the ground. The average 
objects are hanging from the

increases and people should be ceiling or wall and is void of un­ning, Ostby said, "A tornado watch tornado sweeps an area of ap­1 aware of precautions to take in the is issued when possible severe proximately one square mile.
stable furniture." 

event that a tornado strikes their weather conditions exist, and it is Since the area covered by a tor­area. Frederick Ostby, Deputy Ostby talked about other issued one to three hours before the nado is usually so small, the tor­Director of the National Severe possible situations and the severe weather is expected to nado usually affects only a small 
' Storms Forecast Center in Kansas precautions a person should take. strike. The avaerage area that is part of the tornado watch area. , City, Missouri, listed several "An apartment is a fairly safe covered by a tornado watch is The likelihood of a tornado striking precautions people should taken structure in a tornado as there are about 25,000 square miles, sp­at any one spot is very minute. when seeking protection from a very few instances where apart­proximately the size of Indiana. Thus people ignore the tornado1 tornado. ments have been destroyed. In When a tornado watch is issued, watch and assume that if a tornado . "When a tornado is sighted, high rise buildings, get away from people shouldn't be alarmed and does touch down, it won't be in ' people should go to the basement if windows and go to the interior. In run immediately for cover, but their area. However, people one is available," Ostby said. "In an open field, find a low spot they should be aware that they are should realize that for every watch buildings, the interior area offers preferably a ditch. If you are in a in an area of possible tornado issued by the center, there is a fiftygood protection, and a bathroom car, and you can see that the development. They can go on with percent chance that a tornado will offers especially good protection." tornado is moving towards you, their regular activities, but should appear and that there is always the 
Ostby suggested, "If you are in a abandon the car and get in a ditch, keep posted on the weather possibility of the tornado striking 
· basement, get underneath a sturdy since it is very difficult to outrun a situation by listening to the radio object like a table. A person should tornado. Ifan overpass is close by, and T.V." protect his head with a blanket or, go there. If the tornado is moving if possible, a football helmet or away, continue driving. There is "A tornado warning is issued something similar. This is a good another important point to when a tornado is sighted, and safety measure because most remember if you're in a house. If people should take cover im­
· fatalities or injuries caused by a you have time, open the windows to mediately."tornado are head injuries. We used equalize the pressure. If the Discussing the problem of public 


Glickstein favors court ruling in student discri:rnination case 
By Gregg Bangs the LawSchool in reference to the discriminated against Caucasians. Staff Reporter recent Supreme Court Decision, He based his suit on the fact that "In a way the decision is DeFunis versus the University of members of minority races with disappointing, for it would have Washinton. lower law board scores and grade been interesting to see if the point averages were being ac­Washington Law School program The court case dates back to cepted before whites who had of admissions would have been 1970, when Marco Defunis applied higher scores in both categories. continued, but I'm glad that to the University of Washington The case eventually went to the DeFunis ~id not get the decision" Law School. He was rejected and Washinton State Supreme Court stated Howard Glickstein, director promptly filed suit against the which ruled that the Washington
University charging that it

, of the Center for Civil Rights at University Law School could set their own standards for admission. It was then appealed to the United 
SLA robbery car found, 
States Supreme Court. 
In the meantime, DeFunis, through intense litigation, was accepted to the Law School in 1971.
suspects still at large 
He is now scheduled to graduate in By ART MCGINN An FBI spokesman at the the spring of 1974. SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) garage said nothing of signifi­It was the promise made by the 
The FBI Wednesday located cance was found in the cars, Law School guaranteeing DeFunis' two rented getaway cars used just "candy wrappers, that kind graduation that the Supreme Court by Patricia Hearst and of stuff." He said the were decided not to rule on the decison. 
cars bers of the Symbionese Libera­noticed during a routine check The decision made by the tion Army in a San Francisco by garage personnel after they Washinton State Supreme Court mem­now stands as law regarding this
bank holdup April 15. had been left unclaimed. The Charles W. Bates, the FBI garage called the car rental decision. 
When asked to compare theagent in charge of the Hearst firm, which in turn notified the admittance standards at Notrekidnapping investigation, said FBI. 
Dame with those at Washingtonthe light green 1973 sedan and Miss ·Hearst, who was kid­University, Glickstein replied "one green 1974 compact were immediate difference between the located in a parking garage at naped by the SLA Feb. 4, was two schools is that Washington is athe Japanese Cultural Center, identified from pictures taken public institutionwhile Notre Dame west of San Francisco's down­by a bank camera as one of is a private school."
town and about four miles from five persons who participated in 
the robbery site. the robbery, in which more "Even though we do not have to follow guidelines set down for
Bates said the cars apparent­than $10,000 was taken and two schools, I would have to say thatly had been in the garage only bystanders were shot and the Notre Dame Law School has an 
a day or two, although the wounded as the robbers made affirmative approach in attractingrobbery took place nine days their escape. 
minorities."
ago. He said downtown garages Referring back to the DeFuniswere checked right after the Because authorities were not case, Glickstein thought that therobbery, and the cultural · center certain whether Miss Hearst Court might have withheld theirgarage could have been was a willing participant, she is decision on the case because "they checked before the cars were being sought only as a material did not want to reach their decision left there. He said there was no witness. Federal bank robbery on this type of case too quickly.
way to tell when the cars had warrants have been issued They might have wanted to seebeen left, because no ticket against four others, three where the country was going onfrom the automatic machine women and a man, who also such a type of case."
was left on them. took oart their area." 
Describing the susceptibility of northern Indiana to tornadoes, Ostby said, "Northern Indiana is not in the heart of the tornado area, but the tornadoes that do strike the area have often been large and deadly." 

::#BOAC 
We still have Youth Fares to Europe 
Call Clark 234-2098 and save money. 


ISOLATED? 

+ 
There is a college that believes human reason can discover truth. 

+ 
There is a college that believes in true Catholic principles. 

+ 
There is a college where students take real joy in studying. 

+ 
There is a college that emphasizes the im­


portance of reasoned discussion. That college is Thomas Aquinas College. A tutor from Thomas Aquinas College will be at the Morris Inn Sunday and Monday to discuss principles of true Catholic education with Notre 
Dame students. Inquire at desk. 
Jim '63 Chuck 
'65 
1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 


SPRING SPECIALS 
CASE SPECIAL--LESS THAN $4.00 12 pack--less than $2.30 6 pack--less than $1.16 Many brands have been marked down 
COLD OR WARM--SAME PRICE 

EAST ON EDISON. LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200 yds. on left 10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORdER KEGS 
SMC Religious Studies 
Courses for fall, 197 4 
101 Biblical Theology 9TT11 Werner 111 The Religious Attitude 9 & 10 MWF Maltis 151 The Catholic Experience 1 & 12 MWF 211 Images of Jesus 11 & 12 MWF Weiss 311 Story & Theology lTTJ Malits, Burrell, Hau.erwas (same 
as Theo 311 Auto & Rev) 316 Early Xian Archeology 9 MWF Weiss 331 Contemporary Moral Issues 10TT12, 1TT3 356 World Justice & Church 1TT3 Werner 411 Thomas Merton 9TT11 Malits 

For SMC students, 100-200 level courses fulfill core 
requirement; 300-400 are electives. For NO students, 100-200 RLST courses count toward Theo requirement as first courses; 300-400 qualify as Theo second 
courses. 

Registration Thurs-Tues, 8:30-3:00 in RLST alcove, ground floor, North Wing, Madeleva. For convenience of NO students, someone from RLST will be at NO Theo desk Fri 8:30-12 and Mon, 10:30-3; all other times NO students must 
register in Madeleva. · 

1Q the observer Thursday, Aoril 25. 1974 • • 

Among 500 participants 

ND Swim Team to ride bikes lor retarded 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Swim Team members, including Coach Dennis Stark, will be among an estimated 500 cyclists participating in the second annual "Ride-a-Bike-for­the-Retarded" this Sunday. 
Stark and his swimmers hope each ND student not already committed to the project would sponsor one member of the swim team for. 4 cents per mile. 

This fund raising project is sponsored by the local chapter of the Indiana State Teachers Association. Anticipated proceeds of $50,000 will go to Logan Center and the Council for the Retarded of 

Miss Linda Howard is the proud owner of the WRBR Kawasaki 90.t She guessed that it was 12 feet underground at the southeast corner of McKinley and Division in Mishawaka. There just happens to be 
I• 
a gas station there and evidently the motorcycle was hidden in the gas storage tanks. 
What do Juniors who have not returned. their yearbook proofs do
•t with them now? 
Now that the Delma representative has left LaFortune, proofs can be returned by maiL On the back of the pose you select, write "yearbook choice " "order choice," or both. Enclose you order on a separate piece' of paper as well, and note Delma's. recom­mendations as to the minimu m amount that should be paid at the time you order. (Full payment at this time is easiest.) Address your proofs to: 
Delma 
225 Park Ave. South 
N.Y., N.Y. 10003 
How did the goldfish get into the lake? 

The lakes used to be full of bass and bluegill. About ten years ago 
some fishermen must have dumped some live bait into the lake. 
This bait just happened to be carp. Over the years they multiplied 
and their descendants are the " oldfish" in the lake. 
We've opened a 


whole 
new 

world of 

parts. 
Auto partsfor imports 

Announcing a new service in town to help import car owners. Now, you can get replacement parts for imports from us. We're headquarters for World parts ... a compre­hensive line of import car parts, covering the 16 most popular imports ... or, 92% of the imports on America's highways. 
Worldparts are quality-made parts including engine parts, fuel and oil system parts, electrical parts, clutch 
I 
and transmission parts, heating and cooling parts, steer­
I 
ing and suspension parts, brake and wheel parts, and 
~ 
exhaust systems.

I 
Let World parts open a whole new world of import car 
I 
parts and service for you. 

' I 
I Auto Parts tor Imports • Division of Maremont Corporation vGcKSWAGEN • TOYOTA· DATSUN· OPEc· VOLVO· ME[ICEDES • MG ·FIAT· TRIUMPH 
! 
RENAULT • CAPRI • PORSCHE • SAAB • JAGUAR • BMW • AUDI • PINTO • (ENGINE PARTS) We're headquarters for Worldparts-call us lor a service expert near you. Raselanci Aulamative Supply Inc 
! 
320 Dixieway N. (at the light) 
South Bend, Indiana 
272-6700 




Observer ads get

' 
Its I I I I I 
reSu ..... 

l . 
St. Joseph County. 
The 25-mile riverside route 
begins at 1:00 p.m. from Logan 
Center, at the corner of Angela and 
Eddy streets. 
Prior to the 25-mile ride, cyclists 
are to obtain sponsors who will 
pledge a certain amount of money 
per mile ridden. Anyone wishing 
to donate 10 cents or more per mile 
may do so by calling Logan Center 
before 5 p.m. daily, according to 
John Neiderman, registration 
committee chairman. 
At the four checkpoints along the route, registration forms will be stamped to record the distance ridden, and weary riders will have the opportunity to rest or end their ride. 
Collection of pledges will be made next week. Each rider is to turn in his pledges and orange registration form to Logan Center. 
A popcorn wagon, which will sell popcorn, sno-cones, and cotton candy for nominal prices, will be on hand throughout the afternoon in Logan Center's parking lot. All proceeds for it will be donated to the project by concessionaire Jim Hanna. 
Hanna, a South Bend bus driver, 



History micro-courses offered to undergrads 
The history department summer session is offering several new micro-courses to undergraduates including The Phenomenon of the American Woman, The Miracle of Japan Crises in Modern History, The Contemporary Presidency, and African Perspective. Each involves approximately ten hours of class work spread over a two­week period and carries one.credit hour. Students may enroll for microcourses in any or all of the three successive~ segments of the summer term, which extends from June 25 to August 8. 
From June 25 to July 9 the following microcourses will be offered: Bismarck: Man and Statesman <Flood); Jeffersonian Ascendancy (Kerby); African Perspective (Walshe); Dynamic Century, 1815 -1914 (Ward); The Contemporary Presidency <De San tis); The Japanese Miracle <Shaw); Road to World War II 
<Flood); and The American Revolution <Quill). 
Offerings in the second period from July 10 to July 24 include War and Peace Since 1945 (Ward); The Old South, 1790 -1860 (Quill); The Contemporary Papacy (Kritzeck); Age of Exploration, 1400 -1650 <Szczesniak); The New Deal and Foreign Affairs (De Santis); Crises That Shapedl\'lodern History (Ward); The American Woman <Moore); and The Expansion of Islam \Kritzeck). 
The final period from July 25 to August 8 offers Great Men of the Renaissance (Szczesniak); The Union, 1861 -1865 (Kerby); U.S. and China in the 20th Century <Shaw); Background of Modern Totalitarianism (Norling); The Last West (De Santis); Medevial Contributions to Western Civilization <Moore); Recon­struction, 1865 -1876 <Kerby); 
and U.S. and Japan in the 20th Century (Shaw). 

said that he wanted to raise money for the event and rather than sponsor a rider or ride himself decided to donate his time, con­cessions stand, and refreshments. 
Already dedicated to helping the retarded , Hanna has been granted state approval to take retarded individuals in to his home, and thus for the past four years has been sharing his home with two retarded adults. Prior to this, he lived in Michigan where he also worked with the retarded. 
25 per cent of the rider's.}. proceeds will go to the Indiana Association for Retarded Children, while 75 per cent will go to the Council for the Retarded of St. Joseph County, based at Logan Center. 
The Council plans to use its allotment to help implement its new Community Residential Service Program, said Logan's 
recreation director and member of the Ride-a-Bike committee, Bill Locke. 
"The program is designed to house individuals who are in­dependent. We will strive toward independent living, even to the 
tune of living in apartments," Locke stated. 
So far, many are endorsing the promotion, including University President Theodore Hesburgh, Gov. Otis Bowen, Congressman John Brademas, who will cut the ceremonial ribbon, Navy ROTC, Circle K, the Flying Club, and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. 
To be a swim team sponsor, call Coach Stark at his office 6222, his home at 232-9251, or by contacting Captain Ed Graham, 423 Lyons, phone 7965 or captain-Elect Jim Kane, 313 Morrissey, at 3575. 
For other information on the bike-a-thon, contact Neiderman at 7819, or SMC representative Sue Maude at 5224. 
THANKS FOR MAKING AN TOSTAL '7 4 THE BEST ONE EVER 
Tom Eichler Bob Quakenbush Kathy Keyes Patti Lurel Fred Baranowski Tom Porter Bob "Cheetah" Fahrenbach Mary Jane Balinski Marty Kabbes Kevin Maguire Mike Henke Julie Griffin Mary Kay Kelly Jeanelle Naquin Margaret Gibbons Jan Huber Herb Thiele Art Ferranti Eileen Concannon Butch Ward Gary Allietta AI Rutherford Bill Brink John Flannigan Joe Abell Dan Barrett Jerry Lutkus Jim Rosini Vince Meconi Mike "Hush" Brauweiler Lou Myers Rory Moran Kevin O'Neal Tom Venn Judy Kula 
Betsy Kall Debbie Schoeberlein Mary Ellen Vonesch Ellie Quinn Katy Ryan Bill Hendrick Eileen Flanigan Paula Tossi Vinnie Moschella Nancy Cueroni Pat Mclaughlin Rich Donovan Tom Drape Terry Keeney Joe Russo Erin Donovan Don Mcintyre Carlos Brezina 
Mike Vecley 
fhe Answering Service of 113 Dillon 
Jim E. Brogan John Macheca Phil Facenda Dave Schlaver Terry Lally Ed Lyon AI Silota John Swain Harold Benninghoff Paul Rhodts Brother Beatice Arthur Pears Hannah Eldred Maureen Muldoon Marge Strantz 

Louise Nye 
Karlene Henshaw ND Student Gov't. SMC Student Gov't. 
N D and SMC Food Services 
ND-SAA' D Student Body and 
The Hall President's Council 
Signed 
Wally Gasior 
Ron Paia 

~-----~---------------­
Junior Margie Fuchs 





SMC picks Social Commissioner 
by Judy Peterson bonfires and possibly a concert plain that th~re isn't e~ough to do. Staff Reporter planned. . . . . . We want their ~uggesbons and w~ The CommiSSIOn, which received want to fulfill the students Margie Fuchs has been selected $5,000.00 fro~ SMC Stud~nt desires." Government this year, would hke "We know we didn't sponsor
as the new St. Mary's Social to see more inter-hall planning and enough things this year," con­Commissioner. Fuchs, who is activities. Fuchs pointed out that, tinued Fuchs, "but it waspresently serving as the com­"a lot of people on campus com-primarily an organizational year. 
mission's movie coordinator, will replace Denise Peterson. 
There are five other positions on the commission, four of which have already been filled. Mary Lou Bilek, the present assistant Social Commissioner, will continue in that post. Diane Johnson will serve as movie coordinator and 
"We want to tap St.

Pat O'Loughlin will be the off­Mary's potential in ancampus coordinator. Terry effort to improve theSchneider and Megan Lewis have social climate."
been appointed as special events coordinators, another person is being sought to fill the third opening as special events coor­dinator. Representatives from each hall have also been appointed to the committee. 
Although no concrete plans for next year have been made, Fuchs --­stated that the committee would like to expand their program to 
-~v ~~~_f),yj

include more activities. An annual Octoberfest has been proposed, ~ with events such as picnics, 
Double Feature ­
Obscenity law 


Academy Award Show
banned in Boston 
Best Actor -Jack Lemmon in 
BOSTON (UPI) Every­thing faintly smacking of 
"Save the Tiger"
prurience, so the tradition went, used to be banned in 
Best Supporting Actress -Tatum O'Neal
Boston. Now nothing is. Massachusetts' highest court 
and Ryan O'Neal in 
has struck down the state's anti-obscenity law on grounds it 


"Paper Moon"
is so ambigious in the light of 
U.S. Supreme Court rulings 

Starts Tomorrow open 6:00 p.m. 
that it is unworkable. The decision left Massa­
A Must for those considering
chusetts, for the first time in 200 years, with no laws or legal 
Law School 
restrains against obscenity. 
··people are entitled to know what they may or may not do under the threat of imprison­


LAWYER NIGHT 
ment or fines," the state Supreme Judicial Court said in 
"Special talks by four South Bend 
a 4-3 decision Tuesday. "Our general obscenity statutes do 
lawyers"
not furnish any guidance. 
Sponsored by the Pre-Law Society 
"If there is to be regulation in the Commonwealth in the area of the sale or showing of 
Library Auditorium 
pornographic works to adults, it must be achieved by explicit new legislation" which specifi­

7:30 PM Sunday April 28
cally defines what cannot be shown or described, t'le court said 


YOU DECIDE!
K.of C Grand Knight elected 
Take the cheap truck to 
by Ken Bradford 

New York and save!
Staff Reporter 
Senior Tom Dechant was elected 

Met Club Cheap Truck
Grand Knight at the Knights of Columbus elections yesterday 
Trunks $8 $6 
afternoon. Elected Deputy Grand Knight was Sophomore Dave 
Suitcases $5 $4 
Thackston. 
Boxes $3 $3
Other newly elected officers include Pat Keating as Chancellor, Don Trayer as Warden, AI Emilian as Advocate, Tom Klein as Treasurer, Steve Lucero as Inside 
For information

Guard, Rene Pina as Outside 
and sign ups

Guard, and Eli Shaheen as Trustee. 
call: Mike Bob 1248 Frank 
All new officers will be officially 
8823

installed at a May 6 meeting at 7 p.m. 
Members are also reminded that a Council picnic will be held Saturday, April 27. A bus will leave the council at 10:30 a.m. 
----.. -·--. --... ·--·­

------------------------------. 
Thursday, April 25, 1974 the observer 1 1 
.. 
One of our main problems was that tv1ary s nas a JOt 01 potential; next we weren't advertised adequately. year we want to tap this potential We couldn't get to the people." in an effort to improve the social Fuchs concluded by saying, "St. climate." 

NOTICES 
CHEAPEST WAY TO TRAVEL! SCOOTER Britain­Europe $33 a week. Lambretta. seats two. Also Worldwide Overland Camping and lowest air fares. Trail Blazers TOLL FREE 800-223-5586. 
Experienced typist will do: term papers, manuscripts, etc. Ca II 233-5332. 
SUMMER STORAGE: Reserve space now at Mrs. Cooper's . Clean, dry, secure and reasonable. Will pick yp outside dorm. 272-3004. 
THE DOMINICANS educators, preachers, pastors, missionaries, counselors. A community of men praying and working together, bringing the Word of the Gospel to the spiritual, intellectual and social needs of the world today. Write to Rev. Joseph Payne O.P., 5 Hill House Avenue, 
New Haven, Conn. 06505. 
GRADUATES: Would you like to teach for two years.in Samoa(South Pacific)? See Fr. Schlaver, LaFortune -7308. Other opportunities available. 
Baggage Truck going to Southern Connecticuit. For information call Jan 8048. 
MET CLUB: Deposits will be collt~cted Mon. Apr. 29 McCandless Hall 5-7p.m. Tues. A~r. 30 B-P Lounge 5­7p.m. Wed. May 1 Morrissey Lounge 5-7p.m. Bikes, typewriters, golf clubs will not be taken unless deposits are received. For information Call Bill Kelly 234­5193. 
TYPING. Term papers, thesis, dissertations. Professionally done with electric typewriter, carbon ribbon. Reasonable. Call 233-6638. 
LOGAN VOLUNTEERS. 6 
p.m. Dinner Fri. Apr. 26 for information call Kevin 8926 or Dave 3559. Saturday Rec. 1­
3:30 p.m. 
TAKE CHEAP TRUCK!! To New York, for the best results at the lowest prices. Deposits are now being taken in 365 Alumni and 209 St. Ed's. For further information call Mike or Bob at 1248 or Frank at 8823. 
WANTED 
HOUSE PARENTS: Married couple, prefereably without children to live in Girls Group Home. Room and board plus monthly salary. $400 upward depending on experience. Summer job with posibility of continuation. Husband may work or study outside Home. Time off is provided. Call Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233-9491. 
HELP WANTED! OVERSEAS JOBS · Australia, Europe, s. America, Africa. Sudents all professiona and occupations $700 to $3000 monthly. Ex­penses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free information. TRANS WORLD RESEARCH CO. Dept. F3 P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
Wan ted: 1 or 2 bedroom apartment for a marred couple. Must be within walking distance of I.U.S.B. Call John 282-1568. 
2 roommates for house off Eddy. For fall. Call 234-2344 or 8691. Wa111 te bll'7 . 3 speed bike. Preferably firl's Call 289-5794. 
WINDJAMMER, Jazz-Rock ensemble, looking for ex­perienced bass guitarist for nest year. Call now for Aud. Jim 1409. 
Need two riders down to the Kentucky Derby and back. Share gas. Leave May 3 return May 5. Call Mark 3689. 
For Sale: Panasonic 8-track tapedeck. 1 yr, old -Call Gary 233-4669 or at Observer office. 

FOR SALE 
FURNITURE: LIVing room and becroom. Excellent con­dition, reasonable price. Must relocate. Call 272-0456. 
Webcor Stereo. Includes AM­
FM Garrard automatic. turn. table-stereo 8-track-2 Webcor speakers. Excellent sound 
Eccellent condition. $325 Call 1024. 
Handmade Indian Turquoise Jewelry from New Mexico. Fine selection of bracelets, rings, watchbands, accesories. Call 7833 ro drop by 10 Lyons. 
1968 Chevy Imp. Custom VB, blue. radio, excellent tires, clean, rei iable. $800, Jim 283­7733 1-4. 
For Sale: Standard 3-speed bike. Good condition $15 or best offer. Call Charley 1409. 
Sony STR-110 Am-t-'M steoreo receiver. Includes Sony TC-121 cassette and speakers. 6 months old. Excellent con­dition. Call 8728. 
Sony trinitron color T.V. Solid state KV-1201. only 6 months old. Excellent condition. Call 8728. 
Panasonic Amp, turntable 4 speakers · 1'12 yr. old -nice sound, nice price Call Steve 234-7848. 
1966 Ford Fairlane. Asking price $375. If interested Call Rick Pyfer 234-8052. 
Stereo Multiplex. Includes a BSR turntable, stereo 8-track, AM-FM radio, 2 speakers, amplifier, and stand. 6 months old -excellent condition. $ 120. Call Mark 3689. 
Panasonic SE-990 com­bination -turntable, AM-FM Stereo, cassette , Air suspended speakers. $140. Dave 3279. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost in Space Tech: Soc-Psych. notebook; IMPORTANT!!! Call Larrv 3301. 
Lost: Silver Medal (Head of Christ) on chain. 1mportant memento. Please J=all 8653. 
Lost: 1974 N.D. ring; Blue stone, initials KPMcK: Probably on interhall softball field, Tuesday April 16. Call Kevin 3138 REWARD! 
Lost: N.D. ring Saturday 
Initials M.K.D. REWARD!! $10. Call Marty 8253. 
Lost: '74 class ring yellow gold. Initials P.J.S. REWARD!!! Call 234-4664. 
PERSONALS 
RAISIN HEAD -Happy Bir­thday to the one who helped a piano song become REAL. w.w. 
CONGRATULATIONS! 9A B­Ball Bombers for being Flanner's CHAMPS! Signed Flanner 9B. 
FOR RENT 
For Summer Rental: Large nice house, 4 bedrooms. Fully furnished. Utilities, washer. dryer included. Approx. $185 a month. 234-1972. 
3 man house for summer. Good location on Notre Came Ave. Call Gary 1373. 
House for Rent: 4 bedrooms. 
Newly furnished. Wall to wall · carpeting. Close to Campus. Available for summer and fall ocupency. Fraduate students only. Call AI Brasseur 289-2463 before 5 p.m. 
STUCK HERE FOR THE SUMMER? Apt. for rent; $75 a month, includes utilities and furmishings. Call 232-9578. 
Partially furnished house. May 20 -Sept. 272-6174. Apt. mor­nings, evenings. 
.-------------....----~ -~----­
.. 
12 the observer Thursday, April 25, 1974 


, Offense sputters,defense shines 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
They say that the best offense is 
a good defense, or is it the best 
defense is a good offense. 
Either way, so far this spring 
Ara Parseghian has had his choice 
of both, on any given day. Un­
fortunately yesterday wasn't one 
of those "given days" as the 
scrimmage workout proved to be a 
show of defensive strength both on 
the part of the first and second 
units. 
The offense, almost as suddenly 
as it exploded last Saturday af­
ternoon, produced a major fizzle in 
the stadium on Wednesday. 
Whether the result of poor offense 
or good defense only the films will 
tell, but on the afternoon the Blue 
squad (offense) could manage a 
mere 23 points with three drives 
stalling within the White 20 yard 
line. 
Once again, the first unit "D" 
was unscored upon battling the 
second team offense while the 
number one "0", with the aid of 
some poor second team punting, 
accounted for all 23 points despite 
a plethora of mistakes. 
The Blue squad looked as if it 
would pick up where it left off last 
week on its very first possession. 
From his own 42, quarterback Tom 
Clements directed the first team 
"0" on a five play 58 yard scoring 
drive. Freshman AI Hunter took 
the first down handoff and twisted 
for five yards before Eric Penick 
countered through the left side for 
four more. Fullback Wayne 
Bullock failed to gain the first 
down as the defense fired up, but 
crashed for the necessary yardage 
on fourth down. 
From there on it was all 
Clements as he took the snap on the 
White 46, optioned left, faked the 
pitchout, and scampered all the 
way for the score. Junior Pat 
McLaughlin added the extra point 
to give the number ones an early 7­
olead. 
After the number two offense could manage only five yards in three plays Tony Brantley punted 33 yards to the White 49. On the 

Golfers second at N. Illinois 
by Bill Delaney 
Paced by Paul Koprowski's 75 and Eddie Whelen's 78 the Irish golf team managed an impressive, but somewhat disappointing second place finish Monday in the Northern Illinois Invitation. 
Koprowski, a sophomore from 
Sobridge, Mass., was the runner­
up medalist for the tournament 
with his 75. "Paul's play has been 
continually improving with each 
day's practice," noted O'Sullivan. 
"His desire and enthusiasm has 
been instrumental throughout the 
year. 
O'Sullivan was also pleased with 
the results of the team as a whole. 
"We went to Northern Illinois with 
the intent to do a good job and 
enhancing our position," he said. 
"We were a little disapponted in 
ourselves, but imorovernent was 
seen as a result of our participation 
in the tournament. 
"In the skull session we had 
when we returned, the players 
were honestly critical of their 
performances; not regarding their 
play, but in their lack of con­
centration and finesse. 
Each player knows he can depend on his teammate is what we as a team have now, and I'm so happy we've got it." 
The team travels to the Hueston Woods Golf Course in Oxford, Ohio, Sunday for the Mid-American Invitational Golf Tournament, The Irish golfers will face such golf powers as Ohio State, Michigan and Indiana. 


very next play, Frank Allocco, directing the first unit, hit split end Pete Demmerle for 41 yards with defensive back Tim Simon bringing him down on the eight. 
The number one "0" got stuck in reverse after that however. Hunter lost three on a sweep to the right, and Renick gave back four more on a draw play. Allocco tried to hit tight end Robin Weber on In between times it was all 
defense however. The first unit 
consisting of ends Ross Browner 
and Willie Fry, tackles Steve 
~iehaus and Mike Fanning, 
lmebackers Drew Mahalic, Greg 
Collins, Sherm Smith, and Marv 
Russell, and deep backs Luther 
Bradley, Bob Zanot, Tom 
Lopienski, and Reggie Barnett 
forced the second team Blues into 
seven punts and two fourth down 
field goal attempts while 
recovering two fumbles. 
The second unit defense was almost as impressive. Despite yielding those 23 points they stopped the number one unit on nine different occasions. Mike 
Dubenetzky intercepted a Clements pass after it had bounced off Penick's shoulder pass, Banks stole the ball from Penick on the one yard line, and Clements lost a fumble on a snap from center. Six times the first team Blues were forced to either punt or turn the ball over after fourth down at­tempts. 
"Overall," concluded Ara, "there was much improvement defensively especially by the second team. I was disappointed by the first team offense. There seemed to be a leveling off and there wasn't much improvement, but we're putting in new things and it may take a little time." 
The offense will have a little bit more time on Thursday and Friday before they scrimmage again on Saturday afternoon, the last weekend scrimmage before the annual Blue-Gold game on May 4. 
third down but the second team defense led by tackle Kevin Nosbusch and linebacker Tony Novakov wouldn't stand for anything of the kind. The pass fell incomplete in the end zone whereWeber was smothered by Mike Banks, Randy Payne and Simon, and the number offense settled for a 32 yard field goal by McLaughlin. 

"The second team defense played well, exceptionally well," offered Parseghian. We put dif­ferent things in defensively to see how they would work out and both the defensive units did a good job." 
The Blues did score twice more once on a fourteen yard Clement~ to Penick pass capping a 35 yard drive, and again on a five yard Penick sweep. 

Proven trio returns at linebacker 
by John Higgins at hand, although not quite as 
pressing, is to groom competent 
backup personnel for his three 
Notre Dame linebacker coach senior outside linebackers. George Kelly must be both pleased "I'm extremely pleased with the and puzzled this spring. Returning proven players we have retur­three veteran linebackers like ning," says Kelly of Collins, Greg Collins, Drew Mahalic, and Mahalic, and Smith. "What we Sherm Smith would sent prac-have to begin to do this spring, tically any other coach into however, is develop quality backup seventh heaven, or at least have people so that they can have some him daydreaming of spending New actual playing time next season 
Year's in a warmer climate and and become the Collins, Smiths, playing for the national title. and Mahalics the following year." 
Kelly, however, sees things from Collins, a 6-3, 230 pound Troy, a much more realistic vantage Michigan, native, is the hard-point as the Irish prepare for next hitting leader of the defense which fall's defense of their Number One finished 1973 as the second-best in crown, and he knows it isn't all the country. A sure-fire All-clear sailing for his part of the American candidate and top-notch defensive team. His primary prospect, Collins, was chosen by concern is replacing graduating his teammates to share co-eaptain noseguard and middle linebacker duties with quarterback Tom Gary Po~empa, headed for the Clements for the coming year. Jacksonv1lle Sharks of the World "Greg is a great leader through Football League. Another matter example," relates Kelly. "He has 
1 
a  great  sense  for  the  ball  is  
reckless  with  his  body,  and  is  
actually  quicker  during  games  

, than his clock time indicates." 
Mahalic, another gift to Notre Dame from the Detroit area <Birmingham l, has proved to be a blessing in disguise for Kelly, since he began as a quarterback. The 6­4, 220 pounder made the transition to the other side of the scrimmage line wall enough to lead the linebackers in playing time as a sophomore and secure a starting role alongside senior standouts Jim O'Malley and Jim Musuraca. 
The least publicized of the dynamic trio is Smith, at 6-2 210 not quite as big as his mate~ but just as proficient and dependable in his play. 
Smith's outstanding play last season compelled Kelly to alter­nate the three at the outside spots. 
"I'm not afraid to interchange any of them," notes Kelly. "They are helpful to one another and understand the position and how each plays it." 
Waiting in the wings and lear­ning the ropes of outside linebacking are junior Tony Novakov, whose brother Dan was Notre Dame's starting center in 1970 and 1971, and sophomores Gene Smith and John Harchar. Novakov is only 5-11, 202, but the Cincinnati product makes up for his lack of size with aggressive play and a minimum of mistakes. Harchar, a versatile athlete and consensus All-American out of Clairton, Pa., has the physical capabilities (6-3, 215) to make a significant contribution in the near future once he gets the needed experience and teaching. 
Notre Dame had incorporated four down linemen and four line­backers for most of Coach Ara Parseghian's first nine years, but in late 1972 the defensive philosophy was changed to show a 4-3 setup and the middle linebacker position was established for good. In the spring of 1973 Parseghian took that change one step further, 

joining the recent widespread 
movement in college football 
toward a five man line with a 
noseman over center, a half­
lineman, half-linebacker. Par­
seghian built this new 5-3 defense 
around Potempa to take advantage 
of his explosive pass rush, and the 
system worked so well the Irish 
are determined to continue it. 
But Potempa, the team's second leading tackler last year in his first starting performance, will not be easily replaced. Kelly is presently surveying four candidates for the job-junior Joe Pszeracki and so phs Marvin Russell, Tom Eastman, and John Likovich. Russell, 6-0 230, and a former star fullback at Ford City, Pa., High School, is currently running number one in the middle linebacker sweepstakes due to his impressive physitcal strength and quick feet. 
"The middle linebacker position demands a player who is equally efficient off the line as he is on it," Kelly explains. "He is responsible more for the run initially than the pass. The noseguard, basically, is a run player. The middle linebacker, basically, is a run-pass player. It's like asking a defensive tackle to play cornerback too. 
"I look at any linebacker the way an offensive backfield coach looks at a quarterback," Kelly con­tinues. "The learning factor and team concept is just as great. Knowing when to play pass and when to play run takes a long time. We want the linebackers around the ball, naturally, but we don't want them all in the backfield when the quarterback is going to throw the ball. That discipline factor isn't easily learned." 
The Irish teams in the past have been graced with a wealth of fine linebackers, and 1974 should be no different. With a careful blend of experience and youth, and an unbeatable nucleus to start with, the Irish linebacking squad should do justice to tradition and ex­pectations in the upcoming season. 






