Thanksgiving Day 1974-see pages ·s-13 
OD The Inside 
Jr. Food Drive ... page 5 Streakers at SMC ... page 15 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, November 25, 1974

Vol. IX, No. 55 

In letter to President Ford 
Hesburgh urges more food aid 
by Tom Drape E ditor-ln Chief 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh released last night a personal letter to President Gerald Ford urging the immediate authorization of an ad· ditional4 million tons in U.S. food aid "to alleviate present conditions of critical starvation." Hesburgh's letter, dated Nov. 22, recommended that the President make the emergency shipments under his existing authorities and without further legislative action by Congress. 
The letter details the plan Hesburgh proposed last Friday in Washington D.C. that would provide an additional four million tons of American food aid between now and next summer. Hesburgh, chairman of the board of the Overseas Development Council, requested Ford's authorization before a planned Nov. 29 meeting of the major grain exporting nations like the U.S. and Canada and poorer, grain importing countries such as India and Bangladesh. 
Two million tons by January 

Under the Hesburgh plan, this early authorization would enable theimmediate shipment of 2 million tons of food aid before next January and another 2 million ton increase after the June, 1975 harvest. Hesburgh specified that the second shipment would be "con­tingent on matching commitments by other donor countries." 
The 4 million tons of primarily grain would augment the 3.3 million tons in food aid presently announced by the Ford Administration. 
In his letter ,Hesburgh estimated the cost of his plan would be $800-million. Presently, Ford's food aid budget is about 1 billion. He admitted that such a budgetary adjustment would be difficult yet noted "the threat to human security and well-being posed by the food crisis" when compared to other "traditionally recognized security threats." 
"Moreover, the failure to muster up the political will to prevent a massive human catastrophe will further undermine the faith of citizens everywhere in the capacity of the world to cope with the problems it now faces," wrote Hesburgh. 
U.S. leadership 

Hesburgh applauded the leadership the U.S. showed last week at the World Food Conference in Rome. He asked Ford that it continue so the "world could create a successful new approach to hunger -mankind's historic scourge -that would stand as a great momument to the creative leadership of your Ad­
ministration. 
Thestress for Ford's leadership was made repeatedly through the text by the Notre Dame president. Stating that the number of concerned Americans wanting to respond to the rising malnutrition and starvation in the world, Hesburgh writes that "America can only participate effectively following your leadership." 
Text of Letter ... see page 3 
A telegram from former governor Averell Harriman and a list of supporting telegrams and letters were enclosed with Hesburgh's letter to Ford. The Harriman telegram, which Hesburgh terms "a useful reminder," noted that in 1947, under similar con­ditions, Truman successfully sought voluntary controls to save food from all Americans to send to famine struck Europe. Specific actions then had included meatless days, and closing distilleries for 60 days. 

"The emergency relief now required could be made available without an inflationary impact through far les~ drastic I?~asure~ today -if we have the necessary national political will and government leadership " his: letter states. ' 
Delay other exports 

In comments made Friday, Hesburgh said that his plan setting the American goal at 7.7 million tons could be achieved through delaying other commercial export deliveries. He also expressed the possibility of selective programs to help reduce American food consumption. 
Before gathering in Rome last week, pledges from grain exporting countries totaled between six and seven million tons of grain. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations estimated at the conference that a minimum of eight million tons was necessary to supplement the pledged total: Other sources have listed the shortfall between five to six million tons. 


Father Hesburgh wrote a letter to President Ford urging the United States to increase its' world grain distribution to help allevaite the present food crisis. 


Ford returns home from historic world trip 
by lh•len Thomas 
UPI White House Heporter 
ABOARD AIH FOHCE ONE 
· UPI -President Ford flew homeward sunday, capping an eight-day, three nation tour by achieving a historic breakthrough with the Soviet Union on negotiations to limit the nuclear arms race for the next 10 years. 
Ford left Vladivostok in icy Siberia near the Chinese border shortly after 6 a.m. EST with only a brief refueling stop in An­chorage, Alaska, about noon, Air Force One was scheduled to arrive in Washington at 7:30 p.m. EST. 
Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, who remained in the Soviet Union for a short time before flying to Tokyo and Peking, told newsmen the agreement "marks the break through in SALT negotiations that we have sought in recent years. We have achieved a cap on the arms race if we can solve the technical problems." 
He said he believed that "with goodwill that should be possible." 
Details of the bread agreement will be given to congressional leaders starting Tuesday. E~sentially, it is believed to in­volve a stabilization based on continued Russian numerical advantage and continued U.S. 

technological superiority. 
On a train ride from Vladivostok, where the agreement was signed in a second floor solarium of a health spa, Ford told newsmen the 24­hour marathon summit was "just good negotiating--good give and take." 
Ford said in a speech just before the agreement was signed that both nations should "get on with the business of controlling arms ­the business in which, I think, we have made rather good progress in the last 24 hours." 
Soviet Communist Party Leader by all the peoples of the world. Leonid I. Brezhnev told Ford that think we have done a good job in if a final nuclear arms pact is this respect, here in Vladivostok." signed "you and I will be thanked (continued on page IS) 
This will be the 
last Observer until 

Tuesday. December 3rd. 


I 
warld briefs 
' 

WASHINGTON <UPI)-A $50,000 reward for information 1 leading to the arrest and conviction of the person who murdered United Mine Workers (UMW) union official Samuel Littlefield has been offered by the union's international executive board. 
Littlefield was shot and killed Nov. 15 when he apparently sur­prised a robber at a Washington_ ~otel. 
BREMERHAVEN, Germany <UPI) -An Icelandic patrol boat Sunday fired four shots at the West German trawler Arcturus and too it into Reykjavik port, the Nordstern shipping line said. 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. (UPI) -The FBI joined the search this weekend for a member of the British Parliament who has been missing since Wednesday. 
WASHINGTON <UPO -Rep. Les Aspin, D.-Wis., charged Sunday ~at the_Pentago~ is giving $1.8 million in combat pay to Air Forc_e ptlots_ flymg supphes to the Cambodian army, although the admmtstration has contended that no U.S. troops are engaged in combat there. 
BELFAST (UPI) -Gunmen killed seven persons in 48 hours in Belfast in what police said may have been revenge for the bombing of two taverns in Birmingham, England, Thursday. 
AUSTIN <UPI) -Flash floods roared through central Texas laste Saturday and early Sunday, killing 11 persons and forcing dozens of others to flee their homes. 

an campus taday 
Monday, Nov. 25 
3 p.m.-meeting, a & I college council, room 202, cce. 4:30p.m.-lecture, "perception and the use of polarized light In honeybees," by dr wolfgang edrlch, rm. 278, galvin center aud. 
4:30 p.m. -lecture, "a model for the mechanism of Insect pheromone perception, by dr. orville chapman, rm. 123 nieuwland hall. 5 p.m. -vespers, evensong, log chapel.5:30p.m.-dinner meeting, circle k club, faculty dining room, south dining hall. 8 p.m.-film, "dead birds," spns. by soc.-anthro. dept, eng aud. 
Tuesday, November 26 
3 p.m.-meeting, academic council meeting, seminar rooms 102­104, cce. 4 p.m.-colloquim, "self-disclosure and Interpersonal attraction," 
,by douglas doher of nd counseling center, rm. 117, haggar hall. 4:30p.m. -seminar, "some recent developments and specualtlonsabout the host-parasite Interaction between root-knot nematodes and plants, dr. victor dropkln, galvin center aud. 
5 p.m. -vespers. evensong, log chapel 7:30p.m.-entertainment, royal llplzzan stallion show, $5.50 and $3.50, ace. 11 p.m. -thanksgiving mass, concelebrated with fr. hesburgh as principal celebrant and homlllst, sacred heart church. 
(While Supply

c·ss.99Ga•. 
Lasts) 




w~~~~~~~~w 
CORNER OF IRONWOOD & STATE ROAD ZJ (ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART). 2 7 2. 0 0_,_3 

BE SURE TO ASK FOR 10 PERCENT ND-SMC DISCOUNT ON EVERYTHING EXCEPT GAS. 
. 
New approachto be ~atte~npted to 
increaseIVIardi Gras ticket. sales 
by Martha Fanning 
Staff Reporter students to go out and sell the "When these goals are achieved raffle tickets," concluded Sullivan. the Mardi Gras Committee will be
"The current debate over the able to guarantee the best Mardibusing of girls in for Mardi Gras The raffle tickets are being given Gras in the history of Notre may very well turn out to be purely to the hall presidents. They are Dame," added Sullivan.
academic. If the Mardi Gras 
responsible for the distribution and
Raffle loses money this year the 
sales of the books. The cut that the halls receivecarnival will not be held," stated from the carnival could be raised if
Dan Sullivan, Chairman of the a particularly large number ofMardi Gras Committee. In order for the Mardi Gras to raffle tickets are sold.
Last year the raffle suffered a run smoothly, three positions must loss of two thousand dollars due to be filled by each hall : Raffle lack of ticket sales by the students. Chairman, Games Chairman, and Any questions concerning the "We feel that this was because the Construction Chairman. The raffle should be directed to Peggy two dollar per book refund was not names of these individuals should Foran, 1669, the Mardi Gras Raffle sufficient incentive," added be submitted by the hall presidents Chairman. Sullivan. to the Mardi Gras Committee by 
This year the committee is Friday December 13. This can be There will be a meeting tonighttrying a completely new approach. done by writing to the Mardi Gras at 10:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Every hall will receive five dollars Committee in care of the Student lounge for anyone interested in for every book of tickets sold Union. helping out with Mardi Gras. providing they achieve their quota. 
Each hall is allotted initially one book for each resident, their quota is 90 percent of this number. 
"There are approximately five thousand students on this cam­
FAT
pus," commented Sullivan. "The Mardi Gras Committee is willing to give $25,000 back to the halls on compus." 
This money can be used for any purpose by the halls such as a 



WALLY'S 
money refund to students for selling books, or funding parties for a section that sells the most tickets. 
As soon as thirty percent of the halls reach their quota the halls 
WILL OPEN MONDAY! 
will receive six dollars for every book sold over that number. The first hall to reach their quota and 
the hall which sells the largest 2046 SOUTH BEND AVENUE 
percentage over their quota will receive six dollars for every book 
::;;}:WmW®wWmWm~:X::::X«W::X::~W:mWm~®w:&:::::::=::w:§::
of raffle tickets they sell. Every student that sells a book will receive a Mardi Gras button 
Have a BIG appetite? 
which allows free admission to the carnival. Any student selling ten or more books receives a ticket for a drawing for a twenty-three inch color television set. 
r's BIG BOY RESTAU
"We feel that this is more than sufficient incentive for_ the 
52860 U.S. 31 North 
The Observer Is published dally during the college semeater except vacations by the stUdents of the 
TRY OOR COUNTRY FRIED a-IO<EN
University of Notre Dame .,.d St. Mary's College. Sublcrlptlons may be purchased tor $9 per 
(SPECIALS (1\J lUESDAY AND THURSDI\ 
semester ($16 per year! from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 

Phone 272-9720 for carry-out service 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

******************************************************* 
: :
$ Experience the spirit of Christmas : :* as never before. *: * * 
* *
i * * amahl i * * $ &the :i night i J ,., visitors i 
* *
* *
* *
* 
~ * 
~ A special presentation of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra !t 
I+ "Amahl & the Night Visitors" is a Tickets: Friday Saturday ~ : colorfully staged and costumed mu-Reserved * 
* sical classic with an appeal to all seats $5.50 & 4.00 $4.50 & 3.00 ~* people, young and old alike. This is General * * the first professional production ever Admission $3.00 $2.00 ** to be performed in the area. There * lit will be two performances only and For reservations and ticket informa-* 
I 
tickets are limited. We suggest you tion, phone the Morris Civic Audito-~l* purchase your tickets early. rium box office at 232-6954. Tickets Z: Performances: may be ordered by mail by sending 
a check or money order and a self-Morris Civic Auditorium addressed, stamped envelope to: 
Friday, December 6 (8 p.m.) Morris Civic Auditorium, South : Saturday (matinee) Dec. 7 (3:30p.m.) Bend, IN 46601. ! 
......................................................: 

--------------------·----­

Text of Hesburgh letter to Ford •••
November 22, 1974 

Monday, November 25, 1974 the observer 
The Honorable Gerald R. Ford international community must likewise move now. 
President of the United States now address is: Will we act to The White House ensure that the minimum survival We understand, Mr. President, Washington, D.C. 11eeds of the impoverished are that you can make these ship­
met? Or will price serve as the ments under your existing Dear Mr. President: global rationer, dooming millions authorities without need of further 
to further misery and death? prior legislative action by Record food prices, depleted Congress, and we further un­reserve stocks, and a disap­We believe that the 5 to 6 million derstand that the Senate--in pointing harvest have raised the ton shortfall in grain availability Resolution 329, sponsored by a immediate spectre of famine for before the next harvest in May and bipartisan group of 38 Senators and millions. I am writing to urge that June cannot be met without a passed in August--has also urged the United States initiate im­substant!ally larger and more that you increase food aid this year mediately the shipment of 2 million immediate action than the U.S. by the amount we, too, are tons of U.S. food aid additional to government has yet indicated to recommending. the amount now programmed to the American public,and are alleviate present conditions of greatly concerned that the U.S. We recognize that it will not be critical starvation, and also plan Government may not respond in easy to provide an additional 4 another 2 million ton increase for time to avert hundreds of million tons of food relief in the next spring and summer, con­thousands and possibly millions of current crop year, which tingent on matching commitments needless deaths over the next year. represents a doubling of the by other donor countries. I and the The immediate food problem present announced level of the many individuals and institutions appears to be sefilusly aggravated Food for Peace Program. But the joining me in this appeal to you during each week that passes alternative is not morally ac­pledge our support for whatever without a major response by the ceptable. The starvation of measures you think· necessary to United States. Exporting country millions, while an even greater reduce food consumption in the stocks are daily being depleted--in number are eating more than is United States to prevent these many cases for relatively non­healthy, will be worse than a moral shipments from having an in­essential uses--and will not be travesty; the spread of famine and flationary impact. replenished until the June wheat misery guarantee a degree of 
harvest in the case of the United economic and political instability The World Food Conference in States and the fall harvest in the potentially disastrous for all in an Rome has ended with really quite case of Canada. Furthermore, if interdependent world. excellent plans for addressing the additional food is to be provided world food problem in the middle without having an inflationary Moreover, the failure to muster up and longer term. If the United impact there will need to be some the political will to prevent a States continues to provide changes in present planned use massive human catastrophe will leadership and if other countries and reduction of consumption. further undermine the faith of take seriously the U.S. intentions The longer we postpone savings citizens everywhere in the stated so eloquently in Rome on through consumption reduction, capacity of the world to cope with your behalf by Secretary the greater the reduction that will the problems It now faces. Such an Kissinger, the world could create a be needed--and, therefore, the indication that the world's successful new approach to more difficult. Finally, the most problems had indeed become hunger--mankind's historic acute need in South Asia will be in unmanageable would have scourge--that would stand as a late winter and spring of 1975-­dangerous psychological con­great monument to the creative before the June harvest--when sequences everywhere. leadership of your Administration. existing stocks will have been 
depleted. It is. imperative, Adding $800 million to the federal This achievement will not be therefore, that shipments begin as budget also will obviously be possible, however, if the United soon as possible, starting no later difficult at a time when large States and other relatively favored than next January. budget cuts have already been nations do not respond more ef­We believe the crucial decisions on initiated. There is no escaping the fectively to the present food crisis. th!i scale of AmHican response question of priorities. We must ask 
Despite the universal agreement in should be made within the next few whether the threat to human Rome that at least 5 to 6 million weeks, and preferably before security and well-being posed by tons of grain in addition to the November 29, when the major the food crisis does not outweigh amounts now programmed and grain exporting nations are some of the more traditionally committed need to be shipped to scheduled to meet in Rome with recognized security threats--and the most severely affected poor the poor countries most seriously whether a budgetary adjustment is countries, the World Food Con­affected by import shortfalls. The not appropriate. Humans who die ference ended without a decision to United States--which, after all, prematurely cannot be meet these already recognized earned $6 billion more from grain resurrected; military hardware minimum survival needs. price increases last year--should which has been delayed in 
not further postpone action in the procurement can be acquired in a The world's food supply for the hope of persuading other industrial later year. coming year is inadequate to meet and OPEC countries to move the global demand, and con­simultaneously; Canada and the The anticipated buildup of 600,000­sumption will therefore be reduced European Community have 800,000 tons in U.S. rice reserve 
delays in commercial export 
deliveries to Europe, Japan, Iran 
and the U.S.S.R. are another 
possible source of additional grain. 
They are not facing starvation; 
indeed, Russia wants grain to 
substantially increase its feeding 
of livestock. Finally, a selective 
program to reduce food waste and 
reduce American consumer 
demands for grain could be 
another element in the needed 
strategy. In a telegram of support 
which I enclose, Governor Averell 
Harriman provides a useful 
reminder that in 1947, under even 
more difficult conditions, 
President Truman •called on 
Americans to conserve 2112 million 
tons of grain to stave off famine in 
Europe during the winter of 1947. 
President Truman then called on 
Americans to take many specific 
actions to save food, including 
meatless days, saving a slice of 
bread a day, and closing 
distilleries for 60 days. Today our 
total food supply is far greater and 
Americans consume far more than 
they did in 1947. The emergency 
relief now required could be made 
available without an inflationary 
impact through far less drastic 
measures today--if we have the 
necessary national political will 
and government leadershlo. Many Americans want to par­ticipate in a major global response to halt the epidemic of rising malnutrition and starvation in the world. This was illustrated graphically on the Thursday before Thanksgiving, while you were in South Korea, when hundreds of thousands of university students fasted as a food-saving and money­raising gesture. But Americans can participate effectively only following your leadership. This was the central thrust of the petitions addressed to you with 260,000 signatures, including many from Grand Rapids, which ?enator 
Percy presented to Ambassador 
Scali on October 31. 
Among the many leading citizens and private organizations joining 'me in pledging our full support to whatever steps you, Mr. President, urge upon te American public in order to make more grain available for food this year, are the following: Dr. W. Sterling Cary and Dr. Clarire Randall, President and General Secretary, respec­tively, of the National Council of Churches; Terence Cardinal 
for. the National Conference of Catholic Bishops; Rabbi Marc Tanenbaum, National Director of Interreligious Affairs of the American Jewish Ommittee; Dr. Eugene Carson Blake, President, Bread for the World, and former General Secretary, World Council of Churches; Presiding Bishop Allin of the Episcopal Church; Dr. Charles Kraemer, Chairman, General Executive Baord of the Presbyterian Church of the U.S.A.; William P. Thompson, Stated Clerk, United 
Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A.; Herbert J. Waters, Chairman of the World Hunaer Action Coalition, and President of the American Freedom from Hunger Foundation; Mayor Wes Uhlman of Seattle; Mayor Kenneth Gibson of Newark; Robert 0. Anderson, Chairman of the Board of Atlantic Richfield; Chancellor John Caldwell, North Carolina 
State; Frank Goffio, Executive Director of CARE; Terry Herndon, National Education Association; Ruth C. Clusen, President League of Women Voters; and Jean Mayer, Professor of Nutrition, Harvard University. 
Among the myriad global problems that beset you today, Mr. President, certainly there can be no greater problem or opportunity· than that of sustaining human life itself. We count our blessing at Thanksgiving and we look forward to Christmas joy in abundance. What greater moral uplift to our nation, following the disillusion­ments of Vietnam and Watergate, than a call to the humane im­perative of helping our less for­tunate brethren around the world as only we can. It is given to you, Mr. President, in a most unique way, to sound the call that will spell the difference between global disaster and new hope for millions. 
In helping others, we will, I believe, most powerfully help ourselves and restore our moral leadership in this very troubled world. 
Very sincerely yours, (Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
c.s.c. 
Chairman of the Board 
casE:. The stark choice the already acted and we should stocks can be tapped. -Negotiated Cooke, Archbishop of New York, 
Professor of Linguistics 

Chomsky to speak at ND 
by Mary Egan Staff Reporter natural inquisitiveness and the social sciences," Braun said. imitation. "He accomplished this by bringing "Chomsky's chief contribution is linguistics to bear directly on
Naom Chomsky, professor of the development of linguistics matters of philosophy, logic,
linguistics at MIT, will speak on towards a wider and deeper base in mathematics and psychology."
"Language and Inate Structure" Monday, Dec. 2, in the Library Auditorium 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR
Chomsky was the first individual to display a general dissatisfaction NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS with descriptive linguistics as it dealt with a manifestation of human behavior. 

$695 $895 
Tom Braun of the Language 
Single occupancy Double occupancy
Department explained that Chomsky contends that 
No Notre Dame. identification required, just
acquisition, the concept of inborr • 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun.
structure, maturation, and learning are much more important factors in language than rein­
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
forcement, causal observation, 

THINK ... CC1LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
the observer Monday, November 25, 1974 
And closing of Senior Club 
Explanations given for demise of March 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
The Death March died and the Funeral was cancelled and a lot of people were left with unanswered questions. Subsequent in­vestigation has provided some explanations but no clear-cut picture of the chain of events has yet emerged. 
The Senior Death March -the traditional senior trek from bar to bar on the Friday before the last home football game of the season­received its first death blow last Monday when local bar owners announced that they would not open their establishments for the marchers Friday afternoon. 
Joe Mell of Corby's and Rick Kanser of the Library cited damage and student rowdiness from last year's march as primary reasons for their refusal to ac­comodate the marchers again. 
They also noted that the size of their establishments is too small for the crowd of seniors, most of whom are not regular customers. 
Both Mell and Kanser flatly denied that the closing of their bars was any kind of protest against the lower prices of drinks at the Senior Club. 
The possibility of opening the Senior Club as an alternative for the Death Marchers was explored by Senior Class President Greg Ericksen and other class officers. 
Dr. Robert Ackerman of Student Affairs explained the ad­ministrative decision not to open the club early for the marchers. He said it was felt that, "the ef­forts of the volunteer renovators might be lost through carelessness and vandalism." 
According to Ericksen, the seniors were also told that the march "was not in conformity with the University's philosophy or the philosophy with which the Senior Club was opened. 
"We're trying to get something organized," said Ericksen on 

Tuesday. On Wednesday senior class officers reached an agreement with Rick Kanser to open Kanser's other establishment Uncle Willie's Fatal Glass of Beer, for a Senior Funeral. According to the ad run in the Observer last Thursday, Uncle Willie's was sscheduled to open for seniors from 12-5 Friday afternoon, with beer selling for $.25 a glass. 
At 10:00 Thursday night, Ericksen was notified that the Funeral was cancelled and Uncle Willie's would remain closed until its regular 5 p.m. opening time. 
When contacted, Kanser cited as the number one reason for his decision, "unofficial pressure form the Northeast Neighborhood Council." 
Dr. Arthur J. Quigley, head of the NNC and associate professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, denied that any pressure was brought to bear on Kanser by his organization. 
"That's absolutely not true," 
Tighter OC-security suggested 
by Mark Jahne Staff Reporter 
Off-Campus Commissioner Stan Cardenas has warned all off­campus students to consider crime prevention before going home for the Thanksgiving holiday. He recommended leaving any valuables with neighbors or taking them home to prevent their theft. 
Cardenas stated that the Crime Prevention Unit of the South Bend Police Department suggests that installation of a "dead-bolt" lock for added home security. Available in most hardware stores, this lock requires a key to open from either the inside or outside. A burglar entering via a window would them be forced to leave the same way. 
Police note that "dead-bolt" locks often discourage burglars, since it is usually more noisy to enter through a window. Also, many large items, such as stereos and televisions are difficult to. carry out through a window. 
Cardenas said that police strongly advise students not to approach a burglar entering a house or apartment. "Many burglars including teenagers, are armed, and there are cases reported in South Bend where people have been killed or injured trying to prevent a robbery," he stated. 
Cardenas also warned off-campus students against taking the law into their own hands. "There's a fine line as to how much you can do to a burglar. In some cases assault and battery charges against the homeowner have been upheld in court," he said. 

On other developments for 0-C students, Cardenas commented that work is progressing toward a future off-campus food co-op. "There is an outside chance one can be started on an exp0rimental basis next semester," he said. Zoning laws have been checked, and some preferred sites have been noted but much work remains to be done, according to Cardenas who requested that volunteers for the project call him at 1149. 
Academic Council to discuss question of part-time faculty 
by Kathy Mills Staff Reporter 
The Academic Council will meet Tuesday to debate a proposed expansion of the part-time faculty. 
According to Jim Ambrose, head of the council, the representatives will discuss whether to impose limits on the benefits extended to part-time faculty, if the time spent in part-time teaching will be ap­plicable to tenure, the percentage of faculty permitted to be part­time, and whether part-time faculty should be hired on a per­manent or a temporary basis. 
Ambrose said that he thought expansion of the part-time faculty in some cases would be beneficial to the students. "However," he added, "too much emphasis on part-time faculty would not be good. 
"I have not yet decided one way or the other on the issue. I'll wait and listen to the arguments before I decide," he said. 
Added Ambrose, "I do not en­vision the students taking an active part in this meeting; this is primarily a faculty matter." 
Barbara Ann Cullom, Graduate School representative for the Academic Council, stated that she favors expanding the part-time faculty and that this would im­prove the quality of education. 

"Graduate schools encouragespecializing. Frequently, the departments cannot afford to hire full-time workers who specialize in one area. Hiring specialized part­time faculty would improve education," she explained. Cullom also stressed that "with the con­dition of the job market, many qualified people, especially women, are unable to find work." She feels that hiring more part­time faculty would alleviate this situation. 
Business Administration representative Tom Wilhelmy expressed some difficulty with how the distinction between full-time and part-time workers in the University applies to teachers. "According to the regulation, full­time teachers work 12 hours per week, and I believe oart-time tea­

chers with a full load ofclasses who are considered part-time," he observed. "I hope this is cleared up in the meeting on Tuesday." 
Wilhelmy also remarked that the student -teacher ratio should be cut down in the Business College. "If they cannot afford full-time teachers, more part-time teachers should be hired," he stated. 
AMERICAN FILM THEATRE 
presents 

THE SECONl S~N 
Bertolt Brecht's "Gallleo" -directed by Joseph Losey 
David Storey's "In Celebration" -directed by Lindsay Anderson 
Jean Genet's "The Maids"-directed by Christopher Miles 
also, 

"Jacques Brei Is Alive And Well And Living In Paris" directed by Denis Heroux and, 
"The Man In The Glass Booth"-directed by Arthur Hiller 
Discwnt Ticket ApplicatialSAvailable­2rd Floor La Fortune~ Cultural Arts Corrrrission Ofice 
said Quigley. "The Death March never came up before the Council." Speaking for himself Quigley said, "I have nothing against students having a good time, although a thing like that can get out of hand." 
When asked to specify the form pressure from the NNC took • Kanser stated, "For a lot of reasons I'm not at liberty to say. Just let me say that my license is up on the line--a few formal complaints and I might not get my license renewed.'' 
Quigley acknowledged that Kanser "might have been afraid of complaints," but said that to his knowledge no member of the NNC had approached the bar owner. 
At the November 6th meeting of the St. Joseph County Alcoholic Beverage Board. attended by members of the Northeast Neigh­borhood Council, a warning was issued to tavern owners itn the Corby-Eddy neighborhood regarding litter as well as noise from crowds and music. The bar owners at that time that failure to rectify the situatior. could result in revocation of their licenses. 
Chairman of the Board Bert Wishkotoni stated at that neeting, "We are going to look at the renewal applications very carefully." 
It was rumored that the can­cellation of the Death March and Funeral would result in an unof­ficial boycott of the local taverns by students this weekend. Proprietors of the bars could not be reached to determine if any drop in their student business was noted 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS VVITHCXJT WHEELS? When In Need Of A Quick Getaway, Call Lois At JORDAN


JORDAN FORD 
FORD
259-1981 
STUDENT RATES: Rent A PINTO For Just 

$ 6/Day & 6 '/Mile (MIN. AGE 21) 
609 E. JeHerson, Mishawaka 





GRAND OPENING 
of 

FAT 


WALLY'S 
TONIGHT! 
2046 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
ACROSS FROM THE CAMPUS VIEW APARTIVENTS 
I 
l ___ 
---~--~-­
Monday, November 25, 1974 
the observer 

Registration at SMC to be revised 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 

Citing violations of the existing registration system, St. Mary's Student Assembly yesterday recommended that the Academic Affairs Council evaluate and 
Food needed 
Student 
by Andy Praschak Staff Hepm·ter 

The Clay Neighborhood Center is making a last minute appeal to the students of Notre Dame to help theem fill Thanksgiving baskets for needy citizens of the South Bend area, announced Hay Carey, Assistant Director of thP Student Union Office. 
In the past. this organization has been the recipient of some of the funds collected form the annual Notre Dame Charity basketball game. "Unfortunately, the funds were reallocated this year and the Clay Neighborhood ('pnter is 
Instructions for Senior 
by Ken Girouard Staff Ht>portt>r 

Final details and instructions for the Senior Trip to Southern California Wl'l'l' announced last night by the S(•nior ('lass Officers. 
The Most important of the an­nouncements concerned the use of baggage tickets. According to Chris Fenn. Senior Treasurer, people travelling on the United and TWA flights were given two baggage tickets. Only one of these is to be used for 1he flight to Southern California. The other ticket is to bP ust>d unh for the return flight. This J1l(;ans that travelers will be allowl'd only onp piece of large gaggage. 
They may. however. carry one small hand bag on the plane with them. There will be no exceptions. as the remaining baggage ticket is to be used for the return trip. Fenn added that baggagP tickets for the American flight will be distributt•d on the bus. 
Fenn stressed that if any baggage was damagt>d, destroyed or lost. the owner should im­mediately contact airline officials at the airport in order to facilitate the claim. 
Also on the subject of tickets, he stated that the flight tickets for the TWA plane would be distributed on 
the bus. 
Erickson, Senior Class 
President, mentioned that many 
possibility of meeting the planes in Chicago rather than taking the bus 

~~~~:!:·':'h.w~,~· ·~~~.:;: 
1) Planes cannot be met in Chicago. Everyone must be on 
their designated bus in order to make the flight. 
revise that system. 3) A solution to the problem 
The proposal, drawn up by created by Notre Dame depart­Legislative Commissioner Joanne ments refusing to release class Garrett, advised: cards until the last day of 
1) Strict adherence to assigned,. registration, thus nullifying the registration dates for all classes chances of St. Mary's students of 
2) A possible solution to the enrolling in some Notre Dame problem that Notre Dame students courses. create by closing out St. Mary's Although regulations schedule courses to St. Mary's students. senior class registration prior to 



help solicited 
receiving no funds from us," said Carey. 
Betty Picking, director of the food drive for the Neighborhood Center, informed Carey that they have been trying to get assistance from many sources in the city but no one has been able to offer any help to the progaram. "They need enough money to put food and meat. into 100 Thflnksgiving baskets," Carey said. 
Carey explained that he is making an appeal to the students of Notre Dame to help out in this donation drive. Donations of any type should be taken to the Om­budsman Office and left in the name of the Clay Neighborhood 
announced 
Class trip 
on the curb side of bus. 
5) Everyone must be on same numbered bus on return trip from Chicago as when they left South Bend. 
Once in Los Angeles, all drivers reporting to pick up rental cars must have the ten dollar in­surance fee or a major credit card. 
Also, any person signing for the rental car must do all the driving. This point is in compliance with rental regulations concerning liability. 
Erickson also announced the leaders on each flight. They are: Chris Fenn (6487) on United A; Joe Henderlong ( 234-5441) on 
TWA B: Greg Erickson (3687) on American C: and Bob Spann (233-5441) on American D. Any questions regarding the trip shouid be directed to the flight leaders. 
One point which Fenn wished to be made known was that the return flight aboard American flight D from Los Angeles was subject to change due to the early departing time which is presently scheduled.He noted that any in­formation concerning that flight as well as any additional information would be distributed by printed flyers once everyone has reached 
. Los Angeles. 
h


m c n 'I a 
Center food drive. 
Auggie Grace, junior class president has announced his concern and support for the drive. "I feel it is time for class officers to become involved in more than just dances and happy hours," said Grace. He also explained that this is a chance for the students to 
make some people's lives much happier. 
Recalling this year's social activities, Grace noted that the students have had moments they will never forget. "I feel it is time for us to do something someone else will never forget," he said. 
Grace and Carey explained that if every student who has benefited from either the happy hours or the Junior Formal would donate just $.25, they would have more than enough money to fill the baskets with turkeys. 

Graci' Hall ct'lebratt'd its fifth annivprsary last Friday. Called "Mac's Shack" in honor of rector­Fr. Tom McNally. Grace hosted a birthday party Friday night featuring a cakt' in tht' shape of tht> hall. To accompany the celbration tht' hall donated $200 to the cam­pus-widt> World Hungt>r Coalition drive . 


ty ng
' I 

the other classes, Assembly members noted that many courses were filled by freshmen the Monday before senior pre­registration was scheduled to begin on the following Thursday. 
In addition, they cited instances of SMC students attempting to register for a Notre Dame course, but being refused permission until all Notre Dame students who wished to register were allowed to do so, regardless of the year of the SMC student. 
Furthermore, they noted that ND students filled up SMC courses before St. Mary's students were allowed to register or them. 
Concerning the academic calendar forth 1975-76 school year, the Assembly recommended that it be evaluated by the Academic Affairs Council, in conjunction with student government at Notre Dame. Thus, St. Mary's will be included in the student survey In the calendar which will be taken at Notre Dame in February, said Garrett. 
A proposal for alternating one-way lanes in the student parking lot outside LeMans Hall was passed unamimously. Such action, said the proposal's originator Joan Durlacher, would only requree installing of four one-way signs and the painting of new yellow parking lines, and could be com­pleted very soon. An exact date, however, could not be determined. 
The Assembly also tabled a measure to meet the $3119 deficit accumulated by the Freshmen Orientation Committee. Com­mittee members cited increasing prices, particularly for food, and an additional unexpected 100 freshmen as the primary reasons for the deficit. 
• However, Assembly members noted that the Committee has already received an additional $200, over the usual $500 which student government donates. This made expenses of the Committee twice as much as in previous years, observed the Assembly, and as a result, the proposal was tabled, pending a more detailed report form the Committee. 

RESERVATIONS: 284-4176 (Business Hours) 283-7054 (Show Nights) 
Student -Faculty ND--5MC Staff $1.50 

SMC 
THEATRE 
1974-75 Our Ninth Season 

A premiere production of this comedy-Intrigue in the absurd manner by NO graduate Christopher Ceraso. 
Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00P.M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

Torn M<Mo~hon Gt'llt'l ,11 /\qt•nt 

Jim Tucker Agent 

1 
4'. 
/\1 Rc1/I,lf10 
A<wnt 

'Tearafter year~I semester·after semester~ the CollegeMaster from Fidelity 
Union Life lias been the most accepted~ most 
campuses all
people had asked him about the • .,..._........._. 
· 
·y 1 

overAmerica. Find out wh~·.
.Me,.8 ~i,. Bt'ltin 

Call the ._, • ' Fidelin· Union'S A CollegeMaster
WHATEVER THE STYLE IT 

... .Field Associate myour area: 

popular plan on
en,5 ha.1r5t ' . n 

2) Role will be taken prior to 

• 1 005 E. LaSalle 
boarding busses. Anyone who is §§·8600 a:s·e~or, South Bend. Ind.
~" I , -....__ ' 

absent will forfeit his or her 
Phone 287-2327 
position on flight. 
s\1 .~:.:t\• ~\\s\S 
1 ;'"'(.,. .-~ 

3) Busses will not wait. ~ 
~i
HAIR CARE FOR M 



G)llcgcMt1Stcr
4) Busses will have a number 
.. " ill '"' "' ~ •." .• ..... ·" '. • ·~ ~ • • ...... '• ........... ... 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL>-MISHAWAKA;INO. '465M 1... 
---~~ ----~~--­

Chnce.rt postponed 




Illness hits Doobie Brothers 
by Ken Girouard Starr Reporter 

There were many disappointedmusic fans at Notre Dame this past weekend when it was learned that the Doobie Brothers, a popular rock group, would not be per­forming as scheduled. The con­cert, which was due to begin at 8:30 
p.m. on Saturday in the ACC, was postponed after illness struck one of the band members. 
On Friday night the group was booked to perform its first concert on its tour in Des Moines, Iowa. 
However, ten minutes before the doors were to be open, Tom Johnston, lead guitarist and a vocalist for the band, suddenly became ill and was rushed to the hospital by an ambulance where it was discovered that he was suf­fering from an infection of the pancreas. 
In addition to cancelling the show in Des Moines, the band also decided to postpone all concerts for the next week in order to give the ailing guitarist a rest. These cancellations included the group's show at Notre Dame on Saturday night. 
Schickel solicits ideas loractivities 
by John DeCoursey Starr Reporter 
The new Student Union Social Commissioner, Norbert Schickel, said yesterday in an interview that he is looking for ideas from everyone for good social activities. 
"I'd like to get ideas from members of the social com­mtsston. hall social com­missioners , students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and ad­ministrators," Schickel said. 
Schickel listed two ways to gather these ideas. "I want to meet and work with the social commissioners of each hall. If any hall has an idea that will ap­peal to the campus, I want them to tell me, and we'll help them in any way we can. 
"The other method," Schickel continued, "is to meet with as many members of the social commission as possible and use a brainstorming session for ideas. If I come up with ideas and try to impose them on the commission, they might not be carried out as the members themselves." 
Schickel, the vice-president of Sorin Hall, said that there are no concrete plans as of yet for an armory type party. 
He added however, "We're hoping to get something for December 7. What kind of party we'll have depends on the size of the building. Assuming it's in Michigan, I'd like to have other things, and not just beer." 
Concerning any plans proposed under Richard Guiltinan, who was fired as Social Commissioner last Tuesday, Schickel stated that the commission would carry them out if they are feasible. 
Commenting on the social life on campus, Schickel concluded, "There's a good community at­mosphere here on campus and we'd like to enhance it. We want to provide good social activities which will improve the community life of all members of Notre Dame and that includes students, faculty, staff and administrators. However, we're primarily in­terested in the students." 
Tom Bennet. of Celebration Concerts, who is the promoter for the Doobie Brothers concert at Notre Dame, stressed that Saturday's concert was postponed and not cancelled. He will meet with officials from the ACC today 
in order possibility  to of  investigate re-scheduling  the the  
concert.  

"I think," said Bennett, "that there is a good possibility that the concert can be re-scheduled before the Christmas vacation. It all depends on the availability of open dates for both the Doobie Brothers and the ACC." Bennet added that there will be an announcement concerning the concert by Tuesday night on WRBR-FM 004). 
In other concert news, Black Oak Arkansas will provide musical diversion from exams in the ACC on Tuesday, December 17th. Pete Kernan, South Bend and Notre Dame representative for Sunshine Promotions, has announced that rock group Jo Jo Gunne will also appear on the same bill with Black Oak Arkansas. 
Tickets for the concert are available at the ACC and the regular downtown outlets. They will also be available at the Student Union ticket office during the week of December 2nd through December 6th. Ticket prices are $6, $5, and $4. 

Movie bids requested 
Student Union Movie Coor­dinator Mike O'Connor announced yesterday that organizations in­terested in sponsoring films for the spring semester should submit their requests as soon as possible. 
Any interested party should contact O'Connor at the Student Services Commission Office in LaFortune <or call 6244 or 7757), from 1:30 p.m. to 3:30p.m. 
SMC Health Services to begin health education seriesTuesday 
by Kathy Skiba Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's College Health Ser­vices, in conjunction with the Student Affairs Office, is con­ducting a health education lecture series, beginning Tuesday, November 26. 
The series of lectures, which will be presented in the Little Theater, is being held "to inform students about the various physical and medical aspects of being a woman," according to Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice president for student affairs. 
Topics for the five lectures will be adult sexual anatomy, feminine hygiene, sexual relationships, sexual inadequacy, and pregnancy and childbirth. 
"All sessions will be conducted by professional members of the St. Mary's Health Services or con­sulting staff, within the context of St. Mary's as a Catholic college," Wernig noted. 
The health lecture series will be similar to the drug education and alcohol programs which the Student Affairs Office previously held in the dorms. 
"The idea for this type of lecture series has been around for years. This year the doctors of our medical staff requested that it be done," Wernig explained. 
The first of the lectures, slated for November 25 at 7 p.m., will be "Adult Sexual Anatomy, Response and Function." This lecture, which will be presented by Dr. Gerald Myers and Dr. J. Setwatka, will deal with the anatomy and physiology of the reproductive system. 
"Feminine Hygiene," will be the second in the series, scheduled for Tuesday, December 3 at 7 p.m. In addition to hygiene, the im­portance of complete and regular physical examinations, the causes and treatment of venereal disease, and the types and dangers of contraceptives will be presented by Dr. Serwatka. 
On Thursday, December 5 at 7 p.m., Dr. and Mrs. Armand Rigaux will discuss the "Emotional and Interpersonal Aspects of Sexual Relationships. This talk will include a discussion of love, family and marriage. 
"Sexual inadequacy" will be the fourth lecture, during which sexual deviancy, homosexuality, frigidity 
and impotence will be dealt with. 
The physical and psychological aspects of pregnancy will be the topic of the final lecture, "Pregnancy and Childbirth." 

The fourth and fifth lectures will take place during the second semester. The dates are yet to be : announced. 
"We do not ·mean this to be a series of education in human sexuality, as that would include much more than the five lectures that are going to be presented. We feel this is basic physical and medical information that would be given to any individual by a doc­tor," stated Wernig. 
Notre Dame women are invited to attend this lecture series as well. 
NOW APPEARING 

CHOPPER 
AND 
SOUTH SHORE 
~St,ula ~ nile Clut 
on U.S. 31 MhrNII Mits, So. B•d.-frN l'artilf&·&U-USG 



The lint stereophone
that combines_good bass 
response with reality. 
Our new Trans-Linear stereophone surrounds you with pure 
sound, without separating you from the doorbell or the phone. 
In perfecting the open-air principle we've blended lightweight, 
airy design with heavyweight acoustics. A new mylar driver 
results in a 25-20,000 Hz. frequency response,......_,. •• 
never-before smoothness, flatness; and 
for the first time, a full bass response. 
You'll feel the highest highs and lowest lows, without losing touch with the real world. And you'll en­joy the comfort of just 11 ounces. The Superex Trans-Linear stereo­phone comes with a fully adjust­
able headband, and exclusive snap-on ear cushions that yoJJ can replace. In black with Chroma trim, a 15 foot clip-cord, and 2 year guarantee. It's the finest open-air type of stereophone you can buy. 

Supere1 Stereophones. Feel what you hear. 
Forfreel11eralurewnle SuperexEieCiromcsCorp Depl40 151 LodlowSireel Yonkers NY 10705 In Canada. Paco Eleclr<»rliCS Lid Ouebec 
a star spangled farce 
a review by terry keeney 
~****************************************' 
The Star Spangled Crunch 
by Richard Condon 
Bantam Books 
130 pp. $1.50 
r*********" 

Richard Condon should have dedicated his newest book The Star Spangled Crunch to the millions of Americans who endured hours and hours of lines at gas stations last 
winter. In Star Spangled Crunch the world Condon creates is the same world that must have occurred to every consumer-victim of the gas crisis: that somehow somewhere there is a diabolical man who is causing oil 

reparts ta the 
prices to sky-rocket and supply to seemingly disappear. 
Condon, who is best-known for his best­selling serious works Winter Kills and The Manchurian Candidate, in The Star Spangled Crunch tries his hand at political satire. In this year of Watergate and Arab oil crises Condon has tried to explain these political phenomena with a far-fetched story line and an unforgettabble array of characters. 
J.D. Turn, a 142-year old oil executive and founder of Turm OilCompany, is the most powerful man in the world. Now living as a recluse in Cleveland, Turm runs the affairs of his company and the entire oil industry through his right-hand man F.M. Heller. This time he has come up with his most diabolical plan for milking the world for every penny it must pay for its precious oil. The Arabs have conveniently scheduled a war with the Israelis to provide an op­portunity for the oil companies to raise the oil price by 500 per cent. This action, Turm believes, will put the nations of the world and the oil-producing nations "over the barrel" <so to speak> and make him the 
ruler of the world. 
To carry out the plans for the war Turm 
chooses Professor George Taliaferro as his 
personal representative. In 
globetrotting exploits rivalling those of 
Henry Kissinger, this swinging diplomat 
flies from rendezvous in Tokyo to a secret 
meeting with a beautiful government spy in 
an Irish nudist camp to strategy meetings 
with the President of the United States. 
Taliaferro must persuade the president to 
go to war with the Arabs by bribing him with 
a substantial increase in "salt water taffy" 
Condon's term for illegal campaign con­
tributions.The president balks at the plan, 
holding out for $50 million in contributions. 
After much of the action in the novel has passed -the president is forced out of office for political crimes, a 32-year old virgin spy falls madly in love with four men simultaneously, and Taliaferro eliminates his political rivals --the war is held as planned. Taliaferro is installed as Chair­man of the Executive Committee ·of the Free World. But even Taliaferro cannot last in power as Turm abandons his puppet at the end of the novel. 

Condon draws obvious inspiration for his novel from Watergate and the oil crisis that at times seems overdone amd heavy­handed. The parallels with President Nixon are painfully drawn. The organization entitled the Committeee to Re-Install a Great Executive <CRINGE> bears an aU­too-obvious resemblance to the former president's re-election committee CREEP. The foul mouth of the president in Condon's story 'is highlighted, as all obscenities are placed in parentheses and are made to rival the deleted expletives of recent presidential literature. 
Condon carries other political analogies too far. The grandsons who will inherit the fortunes of oil magnate Turm are endowed with the names of the Kennedy brothers ­Joseph, John. Bobby and Teddy. The political advisor to the President is a Jesuit priest <like Nixon's advisor Fr. John McLaughlin). When the time comes for the president to leave office, the press is leaked crucial evidence implicating the president. Condon cutely concludes, "After that the watergates were opened and the flood roared in." 
Condon gets much mileage from satirizing the cloak-and-dagger typical of all paperback books. He creates the gadgets: the glass eye installed in the beautiful woman spy to keep her superiors informed; a tiny, steel· message-conveying capsule passed from spy to spy in a kiss; a fantastic Wonderphone that allows Taliaferro to talk to the president without being taped. 
And just for the sake of effect, Condon seems to add a touch of sex. For after all, what is a good paperback without a little sex? Taliaferro assigns a beautiful operative for the oil companies to have an affair with a government official. The beautiful 32-year old virgin spy is quickly transformed from a naive, dedicated spy to a sex-starved animal dedicated only to herself and her four lovers. Condon takes some pleasure in endowing his main character Taliaferro with a birthmark located in a strategically personal part of the anatomy. 
The net result of Condon's work is a 
cheap, insignificant novel, debased further 
by his poor inappropriate use of satire. It 
seems as though Condon is trying to make a 
fast buck on a public that wants to laugh 
after problems like Watergante and the oil 
crisis. Instead of laughing with Condon, one 
should laugh at him and his unsuccessful 
satire. 
OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
· 
taeaphysical saciety 

gumms-buhndoggel nuptials celebrated here friday 
clytemeatra van der vataelweide 

The gracious custom of open hall was observed Friday evening for the nuptials of Miss Eusebia May Gumms, eldest daughter of Mr. Abner Gumms and the former Miss Eula May Finch of Poseyville, Iowa and Professor Wilbuhnforce Buhndoggel, only child of Dr. August Buhndoggel, Chancellor of the Uneversity of Henzogovinia, and the former Fraulein Yolande Matilde Mertz. Professor Buhndoggel and Miss Gumms were united in a simple non-donominational ceremony in candle · lit O'Shaughnessy Great Hall, Bjanni Thorsgodi Gonmsson officiating. The vows, written by the couple, were exchanged in Old Norse and Middle High German, the latter as translation for the benefit of her most awful and gracious serenity Manfredi von Essling -Quitzow Eletress of Howzetagain, who witnessed the ceremony as the ambassador personal and plenipotentiary oJ the Holy Roman Em­peror. Miss Gumms was tastefully attired in floor length gown and shawl, her Mechlin lace veil surmounted by an antique Norse Helmet <aetelier Weyland, reputed) presently on loan from the Poseyville Museum of Tonsonial Antiquitie's and Universite de Coiffure. Her wedding ensemble was completed by the traditional 
wreath of missletoe and bouquet of long stemmed lesser American Swamp Roses surrounded by Baby's breath. 
The ceremony was performed without music, Professor Buhndoggel objecting on the grounds of historical authenticity. After the ceremony a wedding supper of mead, mutton stew and springerle was served to 

those attending the wedding. The bride having joined her husband in academic· attire, the happy couple departed for a brief honeymoon in the closed stacks of the Memorial Library, before taking up 

residence in Professor Buhndoggel's temporary camp at the site of his ex­cavations in the Library sub-basement. The bouquet was caught by Miss Clytemistra 
von DER Vogelweide. 
thanksgiving realism 
by basil o'leary 
If there's one certainty about the world All of this Is not going to be easy : there food crisis, it is that it's going to be around will be a continual dialectic about doing the for a long time, at least for our generation. short run <"to a starving child food is no No one disagrees about the relative scarcity band-aid") and the long run changes that of land, water, fertilizer, energy relative to must come in agricultural practices, food growth in world population and its reserves, international cooperation. There distribution. Nor does anyone disagree will be tensions between those who think about the disinclination of the affluent political revolution is a first requirement in nations "to do something," whether from developing countries and those who wish apathetic individualism or the belief among to alleviate their suffering rather than in­many scientists that what we might con­creasing it; between the demands of a sider humanitarian compassion may well be disinterested search for truth and im­the greatest inhumanitarianism. mediate relevance of research and 
The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition, discussion; between the doomsday sayers nonetheless, is moblizing its resources to and the optimists; between those who confront this situation: simply because the believe in coerced population control and university is a Christian community, or, those who favor freedom of response in 
from a philosophical point of view as Peter developing countries; between the quality of Singer puts it, "If it is in our power to our own daily lives, their culture and diets, prevent something bad from happening, and the demands of children starving in without thereby sacrificing anything of other parts of the world. For example, if it's comparable moral significance, we ought true that in the U.S. 15 percent of our fer­morally to do it." To carry out this purpose, tilizer is used on lawns, cemeteries, gold 
we have to engage both in dialogue and courses --enough to take care of all of In­action in a way characteristic of an dia's needs --what decisions do we make university: faculty panels under the title of about our local greenery and the death "Epidemic Starvation" have taken place statistics coming from India? and will continue throughout the year, ar­ticles will be appearing in the Observer and There is plenty of evidence that these 
Scholastic, new courses are being in­dialectical tensions can be fruitful: the 
troduced. Plans are underway to make starving actually helped and a positive Tuesday's rice and tea meal a weekly choice answer to Heilbroner's question, "Is there for faculty and students. Political action is hope for man?" And it probably won't be another mandatory dimension. boring. 
rna/thus rides again 
by donald n. barrett 
other hand, in the same Latin AmericanIn 1974 we find countless scientists riding ~egion, which is the fastest growing region the poplation -scare bandwagon, just as the m the world <Tropical and MiddleRev. Thomas Mal thus did in the early 19th America~, .there are nations with significant century. The credibility problem is simply food deficits: 77 per cent for Bolivia 76that the thesis was not true in Malthus' day per cent for Haiti, 82 per cent for' Elnor is it true today. Malthus argued that it Salvador. The two lists could be extendedwas God's natural law that population greatly, bu~ the point is clear, namely thatgrows geometrically faster than the earth's the populatiOn explosion is naively assigned 

mathematical ability to supply its 
as the major cause of pvoerty as is done bynecessary food and other necessities. This neo-Malthusians. ' co~forting thesis, asserted in the guise of · Neo-Malthusians enjoy refering to Indiascience, appealed to the conservative and Bangladesh, which in 1974 produced 93leadership in England, 1800 to 1830, because per cent and 80 per cent of foodit gavethem justificationfor not giving food requirements respectively. They areand other aia to the poor through the Corn careful to avoid reference to MainlandLaws. Who is going to complain against a China and Indonesia, their neighborsnational or international policy which b.ec~~se these countries producedallows the poor to starve to death, where the s1gmf1cant excesses of requirements.

underlying premise is that their starvation Another way information is "selected" tois God's will? So also today our neo­prove a pre-conceived conclusion is to argueMalthusians want you to believe that the that the world simply cannot, does not havecentral reason for the starvation of the poor the capacity to feed its growing millions.
is the "nature of things", the alleged The stupidity of the Let me just cite a 1974 United Nations
f>Opulation explosion. 
document, supported by FAO and othervoor, who simply do not know how to control research.

the number of their births, must not be encouraged by giving them help and food 
now. For the neo-Malthusians, who today "B~ having recourse to the techniques are not specilaists in the field Of population used m Iowa for the production of corn and study (ecologists, physicitsts taking into account the losses brought ~bout nutriotionists), the poor in the Third World by using apartof the harvests for purposes must first learn to use birth control ef-other than tood, etc., one arrives at the fcctively, and only then are they worth following result: The potentially arable ,.;aving by the "enlightened" nations. .la~d~ are capable of feeding 76,000 billion 
The naive character of the neo-mdividuals on a diet of 2,500 calories per day. Malthusian arguement is evident in that it is 

oased on the study of non-human species ~i~ce the world now possesses about 3,900 ants, rats, and the like. Calhoun's study of bilhon there clearly is a wide margin for rats and Ehrilich's study of ants simply action in real development. They urgency have no counterparts nor validity in the for d~~elopment is .not incapacity, but study of human populations. Further the orgamzmg the capacities of the world to neo-Malthusians make the assumptions help the poor in their full human dignity. regarding human fertility which are just as Let us look at the uurgent situation in the wrong today as they were in Malthus' day. way that the data suggest, not as we might The poor and illiterate are not stupid. Like comfotably prefer it to be. At the World many in the middle classes of the United Population Conferecne in Bucharest this States, wealthy nations clearly mainifest past summer, 1974, several hundred of us their stereotypes and prejudcies against the professionals, administrators from many poor andtliepoor nations by blaming them countires of the world, formed' what we call ex~lusive~y. for t.heir poverty and illiteracy. the International Working Group on This position IS both untrue in socio-Population Growth and Social Develop­economic and demographic terms, and also ment. Our statement made clear our un-Christain, in any simple reading of the conviction that poverty in the Third World is 
gospels. not primarily caused by population growth If population growth is the central ex-but rather by national and international planation for world poverty and a power structures that prevent a dynmaic
• 
deteriorating quality of life in many development. " ... the real issue is not that countries, then how does the neo-Malthusian population growth exerts pressure on the explain the relative success of many fast-means of subsistence, as the neo­growing populations in producing excess Malthu.sians assert, but rather that food? The production of the populations' population growth tends to threaten the dietary energy supply (as percentage of institutiona! fr~me~ork safeguarding the requrements) is extraordiany in some unequal d1stnbut10n of economic and rountries: (all figues refer to 1974) 109 per . political power." The statement continued: 
1 

cent for Brazil, llO per cent for Costa Rica 
no per cent for Mexico, 121 per cent fo~ Insisting on population.increase as a major ~~ragu~y '· ~09 per ce~t fo~ :f'anama. On the (continued on page 9) 

population limits only 
by robert p. mcintosh 
Now that the long-predicted world food This article is reprinted 
crisis is here, it seems peculiar, and a little from the South Bend Tribune. 
frightening, to see in the columns of the 
world's press and in the rhetoric of its 
leaders and statesman the same hackneyed Th~ oceans are fully, and many say, over­
pr~posals for the solution of hunger that exploited, the tropical areas are not the 
failed to forestall the developing crisis. ~or~ucopia ~hich has been suggested due to 
The world has progressed, since 1950 hm1ts of sml conditions, desert areas are 
from a population of 2.5 billions, nearly one: ha~a~do~s and expensive to develop due to 
~alf of them undernourished, to a population sahmzahon problems and high costs of 
m 1974 approximating 4 billion, nearly one water, a.nd arable land i.s disappearing from 
half of them undernourished. Large num­production, for a variety of reasons in­
bers of people are now on the verge of clu~ing extensive urbanization, nearly as 
starvation, or literally starving, although ~ap1dly a~ new lands ca~ be opened up. The 
the actual cause of death is often disease mtroduchon of new agncultural techniques 
due to extreme malnutrition. World food into the underdeveloped world has been only 
reserves have dropped to a precarious level m~rginally successful; and the panacea of 
-less than one month's supply. umquely new food production techniques 
Thi~ unpleasant prospect was clearly has not been forthcoming, although the need described m numberous books and articles has long been evident. from the 1940S on <to say nothing of Thomas Malthus in the 18th century), and the In spite of the clearly demonstrated Paddock brothers unhappily predicted the inadequacy of any of these oft proposed oc~urrence of famine to the year. Such ~olutions to the world food supply problems Writers were commonly calledDoomsdayers m the past 30 years, they are substantially by their optimistic critics who argued that what are being offered as the solutions the capacity of the earth and man to during the immediate future. produce more food were simply not being It is quite possible that world food tealized. production will continue to rise as it has the 
They noted, hopefully, the infinite last 25 years -nearly doubling since 1950. If possibilities of the earth's oceans, the un­the human population continues to increase tapped new lands of the world's tropics, the at its present rate, in the next few decades great potential of the arid lands if watered, we will be in the same situation as at the possibility of increasing yields by new present, but the problem will be twice as genetic strains, fertilizers, pesticides and large and much more difficult of solution. agricultrual techniques, the capacity of This brings us to the brink of the ethical 
dilemm~ y<e now face ..Establishing foodscience to develop new food sources by banks, giVIng up hamburgers or coclttails orgrowing algae, or fungi or by other even worse, as Agriculture Secretary Butzdramatic new technological developments un~isely suggested, the family pet, to freeonly dimly seen but sure to be called forth gram for emergency food for starvingby the simple fact of need. They also urged poe~!~ are not solutions. They are, in thethe sharing of the surplus food of the fam1har analogy, Band-Aids applied to adeveloped countries with the un­cancer -uncontrolled human populationderdeveloped countries. 
growth. Extra food in undeveloped coun­The performance to date does not justify tries is most likely to be absorbed into 
unduly high hopes that any of these solutions population increases. This is precisely what will be effective in raising the world's food has happened to our large shipments of production rapidly enough to keep pace with surplus foods in the recent past.the growth of the human population (which Only lowering the population growth rate is expected to double again in 35 years) and below the long-term growth rate of food the rising expectations of millions of human (continued on page 9)beings. 
I . 


Monday, November 25, lf74 
Letters Ta Fl Lanely Eiad a feast full of laughter 
rev•rend rabert IJriffin 
the intricate weavings of trumpet magic 
Thanksgiving Day at my house, when I was a child, was always a time for being grateful for having our health and for being together as a family. Nobody had died during the year, and nobody was in jail; and with God's help, we would all be eating turkey at the same family table next November. Eventually, of course, somebody did die: my grandparents on my father's side passed away on the very same day during Thanksgiving Week in 1942. Three days later, the death of my father occurred; after that, the holidays were never the same at our house because of the memories. 
Many of the early years of my growing up were Depression times, of course. The crash of the market and the closing of the banks had left my father owing a great deal of money. He had financial obligations which he spent ten years trying to cover ; and he did cover them, by God; he paid every dime he owed. One of my earliest memories as a child was of grownups calling me aside and saying what an honest man my father was. I wasn't even sure what being honest meant, but I knew my father was honest, because some grownups had taken the pains to tell me so. It never occurred to me to wonder if there were no other honest men around, since my father was so singularly praised. I only knew that my father was honest; and grownups expected me to be grateful and respectful to him because of his honesty, though the burden of being worthy of such a father often depressed me. I realize now that it was not the honesty, but the adults who spoke of it, that got on my nerves. I would have loved my dad anyway, even if he hadn't been so remarkable as an honest man. 
Having an honest father who was trying to pay off his debts during the Depression years meant that at times there was not a lot of money available at our house, though the only way our genteel po:werty affected our eating habits was that we didn't have much steak on the table. As I remember it, in fact, after a couple of years I forgot what steak tasted like. One day, I asked my mother what it was like to eat steak, because some Catholic neighbor kid mentioned he had eaten steak on Friday, and it was a mortal sin. The next evening, we had sirloin for supper; it didn't taste like a mortal sin to 
A fairly full house in O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's was treated to a unique musical experience when trumpeter Maurice Andre joined the Wuerttemberg Chamber Orchestra in a stunning per­formance last Thursday night, November 21. 
Currently the object of extensive praise from the classical music circles of Europe, Andre possesses a technical expertise that sets the standards for all other trumpeters. Playing a B-flat piccolo trumpet, Andre 
limits 

(continued from page B) production will forstall immediate and future disasters. Human populations must be stabilized at some level below the earth's maximum production capacity to allows for 
the predictable and periodic "bad" years such as have precipated the present food crisis. 
Failing to recognize the impact of ex­
ponential population growth on the 
problems of the world will simply escalate 
the impact of future bad crop years and 
destroy the hopes for improved quality of 
life for the peoples of the world. 
The major moral failing, as Malthus pointed out nearly two centuries ago, is producing more children than there are assured resources to maintain in good health and happiness. The alternatives are the four horsemen, the heroes of Notre Dame, but famine, war, pestilence and disease. 
executes transcriptions of violin music with greater smoothness than the violin itself 
•1sually achieves. In his first piece with the chamber orchestra, Tommaso Albinoni's Concerto for Trumpet and Orchestra in B flat Major, Andre displayed an unbelievable tonguing technique by first soft tonguing and then hard double-tonguing the same musical figure, which therefore seemed to be two entirely distinct tones. 
The power and extent of Andre's breath control was amazing, especially in the Andante movement of Guiseppe Tartini's Concerto for Trumpet and Orchestra in D Major. Here, the tone in soft passages was as full and true as in louder ones, an almost impossible technical accomplishment. The spirited, triumphant encore, Georg Philipp Telemann's German Baroque Sonato in C Major, was a vehicle for showing Andre's clean, well-defined tone in vivace passages ­-a tone never marred by the least per­cussion or tonguing noise. 
If fault is to be found with Andre's per­formance, only an occasional roughness when playing in the trumpet's low range could be cited. The Wuerttemberg Chamber Orchestra, conducted by Jorg Faerber, on the other hand, frequently failed to give Andre the support he deserved. While the ensemble is known for its balance and uniformity of tone, this same uniformity sometimes gave a sense of their holding back too much when the music was straining to a crescendo. 
The chamber orchestra opened the program with a modern set, Paul Hin­demith's Five Pieces for String Orchestra, Opus 44, No. 4. Although the contemporary tonality and loose form of the compositions 
me; but being a Protestant, I was even more unfamiliar with mortal sins than I was with 'the taste of steak. My mother wasn't about to arrange for me to have a mortal sin. I'm not sure she knew what mortal sins were, either, but I'm certain she didn't like the 
sound of them. 
I remember the Depression years chiefly 
because it was such a grievous offense to 
leave a light burning in a room that wasn't 
being used. I had a habit of reading in bed 
and falling asleep with the bed lamp bur­
ning. As a consequence, Dad finally laid 
down the command: "No reading in bed." I 
then had to get special permission to read in 
bed, after pledging not to drive the family to 
the poorhouse with senseless bills from the 
power and light company. Sooner or later, I 
would again fall asleep without turning off 
the lamp, and the whole drama of a father contending with his prodigal imp had to be gone through again. So sensitive a father was he that the Depression which im­poverished a nation's spending should be remembered by his children as a campaign against over-supporting the light company. 
There were always guests at the table for Thanksgiving Dinner, especially a couple of old men, Mr. Percy and Mr. Alexander, who each lived alone in furnished rooms. This always amazed me, because I couldn't imagine what a furnished room looked like. The two did not particularly like each other, being jealous of the other's right to sit at my family's table. I was considered bright in 

history, so each year, Mr. Alexander, famed . Devil himself could sup with you, if you in our family for his mumbling, would could have a good laugh with him, provided question me about the surrender of General only that he didn't drink. In the grim winters Lee at Appomattox Courthouse. He was a of New England, having a good laugh with dull man for a child to deal with, though he someone was the ultimate kindness and 
!had a wit that was considered droll by my parents. He would pretend to be amazed by my precocity and I would pretend not to 1 notice that his lips could speak without moving. Like most of parents' friends, he regarded me as a wonder child, precocious beyond his years, which is really a little tough to takewhenyou secretly suspect that you're a blockhead. I think he was genuinely fond of me, though there were moments when I considered him only as a necessary guest with whom blessings must be shared if you were to show God you were truly grateful. For all the years of my growing up, Mr. Alexander came on the same day as the Thanksgiving turkey, and on other feast days as well. When he died in 1948, he guested with the family a final time, for my mother gave him a grave in the family lot. 
It is ungenerous to speak of the faults of the dead, especially if your parents have cared enough about the departed ones to worry about their loneliness in life. Therefore, I shall not mention that my father considered Mr. Percy a bore, a windbag, a miser, and a silly braggard full of lies. My father never said these things; but I, who was bright enough to know the facts of Lee's surrender at Appomattox, was shrewd enough to read my father's mind. 
Yet my family enjoyed Mr. Percy, chiefly, I think, because they could, on occasion, have a good laugh with him. In a properly regulated, New England Yankee home, the 
a review by Iaureen goers 
were interesting, Faerber failed to guide his musicians in maintaining the tension and tightness needed to hold this type of music together. 
By the second piece, J.S. Bach's Concerto for Two Violins and Orchestra in D Minor both Faerber and the orchestra wer~ warmed up enough to display the tone articulateness and cohesiveness which they upheld throughout the remainder of the program. Their phrasing was always sensitively handled and their vibrant tempos captured especially the spirit of the 
rna/thus 
(continued from page B) cause of underdevelopment can therefore serve. on the level of theory, to furnish an ideological legitimization of the existing order of thmgs; on the level of politics it serves to distract attention from the real political-economic issues facing the Third World... that population policy and family planning framework of an all-around economic and social development plan. . . As long as the material conditions under which the majority of the people in the Third World have to live are not drastically im­porved, reproductive behavior is likely to remain unchanged and birth control 
Italian Baroque. In the Bach Concerto, two violin soloists, Wolfgang Rosch and Win­dried Russmann, displayed superb tone and skill in keeping the intricate weavings in and out of melody always distinguishable. In the third movement, the soloists dominated the orchestra with their treat­ment of the masterpiece of counterpoint which closes the Concerto. 
When portions of the audience actually jumped to their feet, applauding, at the close of the concert, it was only appropriate appreciation for an evening of unusal and radiant music. 
programmes are bound to remain inef­ficient. This is powerful medicine. Further, it is 
•

concordant with moral and religious principles of divergent peoples throughout the world, including those of Christians. This is why the document could be signed by so many people from so many different countries, such as : Dr. Samir Amin of Senegal, Professor Desai of India, Professor Galtung of Norway, Professor Godefory of the Netherlands, Dr. G. Gon­zales· of Chile (CELADEl, Dr. Myrdal of Sweden, and Professor Guzeva:tyi of the USSR. Fortunately Notre .Dame was also 
actively present. 
social grace. On the day my father was buried, our last tribute as a family was to remember with laughter one of Dad's favorite jokes. After that, we all took sedatives, and went to his funeral. With so kind a host as my father, I don't think his dinner guests, Mr. Percy or anyone else, were merely there to entertain him, even with so precious a gift as laughter. He would only invite people to the house whom he cared about, especially on so holy a day as Thanksgiving. 
There was always love and good fellowship around the Thanksgiving table in our home up there on the coast of Maine. The linen was richly laid with china and silver, and our family had more food, we would tell ourselves, than any family but the President's. We truly l.oved each other as a family, and we loved our guests as an ex­tension of the family with whom we wanted to share our blessings; we had so much that needed to be shared. Even the difficulties with Mr. Alexander were only temporary, disappearing with the serving of turkey. 
In the years since my father died, our family has known more grief than most, and now we are widely separated. That is why I am grateful for the memories of Thanksgiving as a holiday of togetherness;a perfect day, full of laughter and feasting of a kind I will never again know on this earth. 
Now; in these years, it is Darby O'Gill and I who are invited to be the Mr. Percy and Mr. Alexander on a friendly family's guest list. I always manage to find some bright child whom I can question closely on points of theology and history, and Darby has his own ways of establishing himself as a figure at the feast. We really appreciate being the guests with whom family blessings are shared in the homes to which we are asked. 
But I do miss that New England home where good laughs were shared by a family at dinner with an honest father who fought an endless battle to keep us from being needlessly enslaved to the billing depart­ment of the power and light company 
My suggestion to you is this: spend. the holiday with your families this year and all the years that you are able. Have a happy Thanksgiving filled with celebrations of having your health, and being together. 
And remember: Darby and I never said we didn't love you. 
filled with celebrations of having your health, and being together 

Huddle workers; S.R.O. signs of the doors of Sacred Heart on a verv Interdependent Planet 

Church; Notre Dame ducks. demanding an increase of two per The food situation on this planet has never capita bread crumbs. Everything Is unjust. Everything is an insult. been more precarious than at present. Food was, I have to brook such effrontery and still pay $4000 per year. In a of course, the almost total concern for primitive more \pervet'M moment, I r.called the sight of my sweating 
man, so much so that early man is characterized diligently owr e milling machine and rHaonlng that my money 
as a hunter or a gatherer, but never before has would probably go to some miscellaneous university expense: a the whole matter of sufficient food for survival 
snow tire for a lawn mower;a window pane; a new razor for the 

been cast in such monumental proportions as at Provost. 
present. Food demand is up 50 per cent since Silently Infuriated, I began to stride about the seventh floor. I was twenty years ago, while world food stocks as· of being watched by the cold precise eyes of Hegellans and last summer stood at 27 days of world need,Aristotelians. I thoug~t, "I am mad to attend such a university." 
compared to a 95-day world supply available Stuffed with rage, dangerous, I went to seek pity from my mentor fifteen years ago ... Climatic change has had a disasterous effect
In the most ooscure corner of the seventh floor, I found him. A on food production. Last year, I visited some ofpipe in his mouth, sequestered behind several volumes of the Sahelian countries in Africa where thephilosophical tracts, his burnished red hair neatly combed, it Sahara Desert is moving South at about 30 milesseemed criminal of me to upset his finely tuned mind and scholastic a year. In the refugee camps around Nouakshott, solace. 

Timbuktu, and Gao, one saw hundreds ofYou may have seen him about. The sight of him provokes queer thousands of Tuaregs who had lost all of theirfeelings In you, I am sure. But that Is because you do not want to herds and were despondently dependent on abelieve that he exists outside of some picture in a book or an image minimal amount of rice, wheat, and corn flownin your mind. I daresay you take heinous pleasure In, being once in daily on military air lifts. It was like at­Introduced, forgetting his name. Indeed, he Is Curious George: a tempring to feed an elephant with a teaspoon. In
graduate student in philosophy working ceaselessly on his thesis on Albert Camus. 

those incredibly torrid and sandy spots, one looked into the face of hungry desperation andHe motioned me to take a seat and beseeched my patience v"hile realized that human suffering transcends thehe reloaded his pipe with tobacco. rte nodded knowingly with short grim statistics. People starve and die, notsage movemenTS. There was a silence. I feared he was going to numbers.
berate me for switching his train of thought. He languidly exhaled As this is happening in the underdevelopedthe smoke and spoke: world, we in the developed world are consuming"After leaving the Grateful Dead tour," he began lightly, 'I almost a ton of food grains annually per persontoured Africa with the Man In the Yellow Hat. (He still plays the while the poorest barely subsist on 400 pounds adobro, you know. Has a new album coming out on Polydor.) We had year. We only consume 150 pounds of our grain

o damnable time. No large auditoriums. No posh, groupie-Infested directly as bread and pastry products, the resttlOtels. Instead, we rocked bamboo shacks and stood on daisies In going into the production of meat, milk, andthe spotlight of the local tribunals. I quickly got bummed out. My eggs. The poor consume all of the grain directlycynicism grew, my mescaline dose Increased. One day In Zaire, I In bread, chapattls and tortillas. Affluence hasthumbed a copy of Newschlmp. I came to a full-page ad with a doubled meat consumption during the pastpicture of a skeletal child. It told me that I could either send so twenty years in America and Canada. Since Itmuch money to support the kid¢ I could turn the page. I don't have takes seven pounds of grain to produce oneto tell you with how much glee I turned that page. My amusement pound of beef, more grains are fed to animals in was Interrupted by the Yellow Fedora. He screamed at my In­America than is consumed directly in. the poorsensitivity and brutal callousness. I made a snide remark about nations, thus further complicating the foodFeds in general and told him In particular to peel it. He left me. 

crisis. Now the face of interdependence begins to That night I hallucinated. I dreamed I played the Garden. When my appear. For example, a quarter of a pound less name was announced I pounced on the stage and threw out my of beef a week per person In the United Statesarms. The silence of 20,000,000 bloated bellies and those starving would free over ten million tons of wheat ayeareyes greeted me." 
for a hungry world, and contribute to American"What are you trying to tell me," I broke in. "Is that this fad, this health, too, with the lowering of cholesterol in­starvation rag; these millions are living In dreams, are living in take.
magazine pages, are living In Imaginary worlds and glass windows In the past, interdependence was seen inso far from me that I am to be congratulated for my perspicacity In political terms as the Third World wooed by thediscerning the hollowness of this cause. I am therefore forced to Western and Socialist countries with variousconclude tnat I shall celebrate with a Big Mac." 

assistance schemes. Now that detente has arriveHe whipped off his aviator sunglasses and shot daggers Into my among the great powers , that motivation musteyes. 
be replaced by a new sense of Interdependence.
"Those millions," he glared, "are dying." 

Some call for self-interest since we are movingTo which I had nothing to say. So I said nothing. Feeling petty I Into an age of shortage of industrial materialsleft. 
that mostly come from the Third World, oil being It comes as no surprise that I have decided to reconsider. Curious only the tip of the shortage Iceberg. Now theGeorge, a good head, my main man, my prime mate has changed banana countries, the copper producers, themy heart. He knows a good thing when he sees one and I can swear 
to the fact that he never steen me wrong. I will be sitting next to him on Tuesday evening In the South Dining Hall, dining on tea and rice. So, 1must ask you --even If you disdain causes, even If you need to break a dinner date, even If you are In a house In a boat, with a mouse or In a moat, or even If you ere waiting for the Cat In the Hat to come back, remember: 
Curious George says -"Tea and rice." 
Do It Tuesday. 

bauxite group are beginning to follow the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' example in forming cartels to raise prices, so they can pay for their spiraling costs of fuel and food. 
These interdependent developments have given rise to a new catagory among the 115 countries of the Third World, namely the 35 to 40 countries who have nothing with which to bargain, neither raw materials not industrial potential, countries such as India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Pakistan, the Sahelian countries of Africa and some Caribbean nations. This is the new, so-called Fourth World, comprising almost a billion people who will go under without an additional three billion in aid this year. 
Norman Borlaug, winner of the Nobel Prize, recently returned from India where he saw farmers with containers waiting not hours, but days, for non-existing fuel with which to operate their well pumps. Without this pumped water, their crops died. For us in the developed world, the fuel shortage meant inconvenience. For those in the Fourth World, it means death. 
We must urgently develop a new Weltan­schauung, a world perspective based upon the interdependence of all mankind on this relatively small spacecraft with very finite life resources. I am not a prophet of gloom and doom. Neither am I a Micawber who believes that somehow everything will get better and turn out all right. It will get better, I believe, but only if we change profoundly, only if interdependence passes from an idea to a fruitfuland operative reality in the political, economic, and social life of the whole planet. 
Sometimes a picture is worth a million words. Take the view of the earth from the moon, which reduces the size of our spacecarft. Instead of 3.6 billion people, difficult to imagine, think of a crew of five persons, each representing a segment of humanity. The person representing us and our world, mostly Judeo-Christlan, white, Western, affluent, has the use of 80 per cent of the available life resources and amenities aboard our spacecraft. The other four crew members must share the 20 per cent that is left. The situation, though inequitous and unjust, is still deteriorating. Our crew man is increasing his share to 90 per cent at the moment, leaving 2112 per cent for each of the other crew members. 
Now I ask you--given the fundamental in­terdependence of a spacecraft's crew--can you imagine much lasting peace or order or good life aboard this spacecraft? The other crew mem­bers are not just uneasy and frustrated, they are outraged, as well as hungry and hopeless, since our person also seems to have the only lethal weapon aboard. If our person, we ourselves, do not begin to perceive the utter injustice of the situation, and begin to organize the use of these finite resources in a more just fashion, he will ultimately, inevitably be overwhelmed by some manner of violence. It is no chance affair that one of the most troubled nations of all has just developed an atomic bomb. 
~Y tl-tesis is that we have very theological, philosophical, and humane imperative to change, to respond, and we can find creative ways of doing so. And we must, if we wish peace, as well as survival. I have always been hear­tened by the words of Faulkner in receiving the Nobel Prize for literature: "Man will not simply endure; he will prevail"'. But now we must fact the fact that mankind will not automatically prevail. 
the observer 
HUNGER 

If it were up to public opinion the food One might guess that if 1972 and 1974 had crisis we are presently experiencing would not been such poor harvests, if the oil and be blamed on two factors: changes in fertilizer problems had not come so unex­climate and population growth. The first of pectedly, we would not face the drastic these --such opinion would tell us --is a problem we do today. It is almost certain, temporary problem that will disappear on however, that the population explosion its own; the latter is a more complex issue alone would have caused a similar problem that must be handled immediately through sooner or later; production increases have increasing the availability of birth control been running a close race with population methods in the underdeveloped world. This growth for many years. The obvious analysis is, however, overly simplistic. The solution to the problem is to decrease the problem of hunger is an extremely difficult population growth rate. Western countries one that we can expect to face for many could, for example, advocate voluntary years --long after the climate returns to family planning and apply extensive "normal" and the countryside has been political and economic pressure --or they sprinkled with a few more family planning could just let people starve. These methods, centers. In fact, if present trends continue however, would have almost no effect on the the situation will worsen; population underlying causes of the problem projections, high energy prices, and in­Large families in the Third World serve creasing competition for limited resources several functions: in lieu of Social Security all warn of more difficult times ahead. To and pension plans children are crucial understand why this is a long range problem means of support for old age; they provide we need to briefly examine some of the the cheapest form of labor one can find for issues. the family land; they are, in some areas, 
The crisis stems from several events of culturally valued --i.e., as indicative of recent years. In 1972 the world production of parental fertility. But health conditions and cereals (wheat, coarse grain, and rice) fell the food problem imply that one must have ­by 33 million tons, or about 4 percent of the -and feed --more children than are really total harvest. This decline --which caused, needed simply because the probability of among other things, the notorious Soviet death is so high. This is clearly a vicious purchases of that year --resulted in a 40 circle. Extensive and well-run family percent decrease in the world grain planning programs can have some effect, reserves. In 1973 the harvests were but nowhere near enough to stop the reasonably good, but unprecedented problem altogether; a program "suc­prosperity in the developed world meant ceeds," say, when it has lowered the growth that people were eating more; consequently rate by 114 to 112 of 1 percent--significant but reserves were not replenished and prices still insufficient amounts. Planned star­rose dramatically. Food aid programs were vation is foolish and obviously distasteful; cut due to diminished reserves, and poor having a few more children die only means countries were faced with sharply higher that more are originally needed to maintain costs for food imports. More recently a a constant chance of survival. The only way worldwide shortage of fertilizer and the to sufficiently affect population growth increased price of oil have adverse.ly af­rates is to follow the example of the US and fected the ability of poor countries to grow the rest of the developed world: with in­their own food, and they are therefore more creased social and economic security fewer dependent than ever on the North American children are needed. If we increase the breadbasket. Furthermore the mounting income of the peasant farmer enough (or fuel and oil bills have left less money to provide some alternative form of security) purchase grain with; growing needs and he will be able to save for old age, and hire declining funds surely make a two-way the needed labor. This goal, however, will squeeze. This year, climatic conditions have take many years--assuming it comes at all. produced poor harvests, and everything Hence even the most optimistic observer produced can be sold at fairly high prices on can see no way to avoid an 80 to 100 percent the world market. increase by the year 2000. 
The extent of the US food aid program is If we are assured, then, that the 
closely geared to the existence of surplus population growth rates in the un­
grain; in past years huge quantities were derdeveloped world are fairly inflexible -­given away simply "to get rid of the stuff," regardless of what the West may "demand" in the words of Agriculture Secretary Butz. of an individual government--what can be 
The ·wnole ·situation said about other solutions? The most ap­reduces, predictably enough, to a question 
parent of these is to improve Third World of priorities: high prices at home or star­agricultural production. Most experts agree vation abroad; food as a "weapon" or food 
that given sufficient time it is possible to as a right. To many this is not an easy transform these countries into self­quec:.tinn 
sustqlning food producers, assuming that 


some efforts are made to control population growth. To achieve the transformation, however, many substantial changes are required. 
The most effective short term aid would 
be to increase the supply of reasonably 
priced fertilizer and fuel. Currently the 
underdeveloped world can only afford a 
fraction of what it needs, and this shortage 
will severely affect production. Inevitably 
such an effect would only further pressures 
on already strained international supplies, 
and every country's prices would go up. To 
reduce international strain we must in­
crease international production, and to do 
that we must be ready to share--as well as 
sell --some of our resources. 
The list of needed long range innovations Is almost endless: experts to derive and teach new methods; expanded use of irrigation; new seeds ·that offer higher yields and disease resistance; increased availability of farming supplies; improved credit provisions; revised systems of distribution --to name only a few of the more technical problems. None of the needed technical changes are theoretically impossible, but all will require intense research and massive funding. As in the past some of these funds can come from within the Third World; some can come from private foundations interested in the problem. But the additional amounts needed to make significant progress in the foreseeable future virtually require in­creased help from the West. Again: success, if it is to come at all, must be a joint effort by all concerned developed and un.­derdeveloped alike. 

There is no easy solution. What is most profound about the whole issue, though, is the larger question it entails: competition or cooperation; nationalism or in­ternationalism. 
To illustrate the problem let's suppose quality of human life abroad. 
everyone in this country suddenly decided to But I think we in the developed world 
send half of every dollar earned to the Third must also face the need for several 
World as an uunrestricted donation. The imaginative leaps. How can we reconcile 
poor countries should then be able to pur-the goal of unlimited growth with the 
chase both sufficient quantities of grain to existence of a finite supply of resources? 
solve their immediate problem and the How do we expect to maintain any sort of 
supplies and technology needed to improve international community in face of intense 
local production. selflshmess over commodities like food and 
Unfortunately there is little reason to oil? How can a country which succeeds so 
believe these donations would be able to well at avoiding the problems of the poor at 
instantly speed up the development process. home ever be asked to seriously identify 
For example, power and money would with the poor of other countries--or with the 
continue to flow into the hands of an en-plight of future generations that can't even 
trenched, dominant elite, who would still be imagined? There are many questions of 
collect large shares of production as rent for this sort. The answer to each almost has to 
land usage, as interest for credit provisions, be an innovative argument for change, for if 
and as payment for other services. An the answer existed within current struc­
equally difficult problem is that of govern-tures it would cease to be such a perplexing 
ment priorities: the money could be spent difficulty. 
on agricultural development d develop-Today there is a moral Imperative. 
ment, or it could go to build industrial "People starve, not numbers"--and people 
facilities, or perhaps a hotel for the tourist will continue to starve for several years. To 
trade. Landlords, local bureaucrats and me selling our grain only to the highest 
heads of state alike have much to lose by bidder is a despicable practice; we can 
changing the distribution of wealth. It is afford to give it away, even If It does lead to 
probable, then, that the peasant farmer and a 75 cent loaf of bread. "America is the 
the urban poor would receive only a fraction richest country In the world --American can 
of our generosity --and we would be hard do anything," a peasant farmer once 
pressed to find ways to avoid the power and remarked. American can use food as a 
influence of the elite. This Is a political "weapon" --to bring even greater riches 
problem, obviously, which money and home --or as a "right" --to forestall the 
technology are not capable of dealing with. onslaught of hunger. This ought not to be a 
I make this point not to discourage con-difficult choice for anyone, Including 
trigutions; indeed they are very important housewives, farmers, and secretaries of 
both as a humanitarian act of love (without agriculture. 
which many more people would starve), and Beyond the moral imperative our active 
as the only way to achieve significant response must recognize that the quality of 
technological and economic progess. What life can be considerably Improved. In the 
should be clear, though, is that money and Third World much is said about avoiding the 
technology on our part are really ·not materialistic shallowness of the West. In 
enough; these are mind-boggling problems some countries "wealth" can be measured 
that promise to quickly destroy all forms of in social or cultural ways, o:nd "a better 
shallow idealism. life" need not require big cars, skyscrapers, 
If we stand back to look at the problems of and mountain resorts. Is it proper to raise 
the Third World as a whole, we can these issues In this country? Do our values 
generalize by saying that what is really correctly identify "the good life"? In this 
needed is an "Imaginative leap," a com-issue--as well as in that of the moral im­
pletely new set of ways to analyze and solve perative --the direction for change is fairly 
existing problems. Calcutta will never be well marked; the main themes of 
like Chicago; an industrialized Third World Christianity, for example, offer a very 
woul surely destroy our global environment positive alternative to the current state. 
overnight. ("The world can only afford one The subject of religion brings up a third 
United States," in the words of one ob-type of active response. On Tuesday, at 11 
server) But neither will it be able to con-pm, Father Hesburgh will celebrate Mass 
tinue on its present course: millsions of for the cause of world hunger In Sacred 
people, with thousands more each week, Heart Church. I am not a theologian; 1 can 
cannot continue to live in ever-growing make no neat generalizations as to what the 
slums indefinitely --something has to give. Mass will or will not do. The type of 
But how do we picture the future Calcutta? response it will be --whether sincere or 
I suggest that none of our models offer shallow, inspiring or boring--Is ultimately a 
sufficient direction; the choice between question to be answered by each participant 
industrial urbanization or burgeoning slums individually. But, for one and all, the very 
Is simply not enough. In a similar way act of giving up and hour or so to attend Is an 
"imaginative leaps" are required in fields, indication of concern --and concern Is part 
like agriculture, politics, and economics .. if of the battle. The first part. 
we are ever to succeed at Improving the 
THE OBSERVER. 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Tom Drape Fred Graver Marlene Zloza
Editor-In-Chief E ditorlal E dltor Managing Editor 
Bob Zogas Terry Keeney Bob McManus Business Manager News Editor Advertising Manager 
November 25, 1974 


Monday, November 25, 1974 the observer 13 
apinia"!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~R!!!!!!!!!e!!!!!!m!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!o!!!!!!v!!!!!!i!!!!!!n!!!!!!g!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!t~h!!!!!!e!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!P!!!!!!a!!!!!!in!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ --.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii__.iiiiiiiiiiiiii__.__.iiiiiiiiiii__.__.__._.mike davis and ceyI pr i n s t:e r 
There is one thing that the World Hunger Crisis has done for me. It has made me realize how very little we in the United States, and for that matter in the Western world, experience pain. We are a society that is dedicated to pleasure and the removal of pain. This is nothing new for anyone to hear. What is new is to what depths and to what extent we go about this removal process. 
Many of us come from very nice middle class suburbs where the threat of evil and viomence is far removed with the exception of an occasional robbery or some other not so frequent crime. We are all properly aghast at crime and take precautions when going into the city. This age, however, is coming to an end. One of the latest trends in our society is that of the terrorist, and also the spread of crime to the suburbs. This is happening for two reasons. One is that people are more mobfle and there is greater chance for escape. The second is that the outrages in our society which have brought about crime and slavery not only to the dollar, but also to other people who are receiving much attention and becoming more pronounced in our consciousness. I doubt that these outrages of society are really on the upswing; it is just that people are more conscious and aware of them. 
The world is getting smaller and we can no longer ignore what we can not see. The world community is coming together through transportation and communication. 
This is not necessarily bad and it could result in very needed and just action. I sincerely believe that people are basically compassionate and that they care abnnt others, but it seems that this is true only if it does not inconvenience or hurt them in any way. 
On the other hand, this trend in increased 
awareness is eaually met by just as strong an urge to forget every bit of such knowledge that is revealed to us. Look in our society and see how alienated we are from the pain and suffering that other people in other countries experience on a massive scale where there is never any relief from suffering or the sight of suf­fering.. .for anybody. 
We have hospitals, the best in the world, warm rooms, soft beds, good doctors, nurses whose job it is to take care of us. Hospitals close by to the scene of almost any accident and whose emergency rooms can help to make the pain go away very fast. We are very lucky. But then there are the asylums and prisons which proivde very little remedial treatment and are instead caretaker homes for the misfits of the status quo. There are also the old folks' homes where we sent the aged who can no longer produce anything of value for society. We do not want to watch the demise of their bodies and minds as they come closer and closer to death. It causes us pain to see that and to be reminded that we, too, might someday deteriorate to such a state. 
Hospitals, prisons, asylums and homes for the aged are not bad in themselves. In fact they can all be quite good and provide a real service, but they arededicated to the same end which is to remove the sight and the reality of pain and suffering and death from our everyday lives. We as a society do not know what it means to really suffer physically. We have never really felt the pangs of hunger or the extremities of weather by living with them day after day. We have never been in a place that there is no escaping from the misery and the hurt and the pressure of being subject to the true infirmities of being human. In other words, we as a society have failed to know what it means to be human because we do not admit 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~
---· 

that human reality MUST include suffering, trial, sorrows, and death, and that every person must experience these intimately. 
The fact that we don't know these things as intimately as we should can say a few things. Itcan say that we have succeeded in escaping the awful cruelty of being human: we are able to relive suffering and prolong life. But this is true only in a limited sense. After all, we cannot really escape the cruelty of being human all the way. We are human and it is now beginning to catch up with us. All the blind folding of the last ten years is staring us squarely in the face. Adn what it is saying is "FEED ME! CLOTHE ME! SHELTER ME! GIVE ME JUSTICE!" The fifties and sixties are gone and music can't bring them back. The new voice is not that of Chubby Checker singing "Let's Twist Again Like We Did Last Summer", but rather that of hungry and oppressed people singing songs of liberation. Yes, there are even some of these on our own American doorsteps. 
Because we have not suiiered enough to realize what this .oppression means, we do not sympathize nor recoognize the meaning of the cries of these beleaguereed millions. But we do hear their cry and we must begin to come to terms with what they are going through. We cannot experience what they are experiencing nor can we even imagine ~t 'l'nat is bevond our oower. 
What we must do IS aumit that we hear the cry and begin to seek ways to feel the source from which it arises. A man will never be able to experience the pains of childbirth but he can come to a fuller understanding of it by identifying with it through the love of his wife and thuse getting as close to it as possible. This is what we must do with hungry people. They are dying of the great pains of hunger and in order to know what 
that means we must go hungry ourselves. We must fast and be one with the hungry people of impoverished countries like Bangladesh and the Sahara regions, places like the migrant camps and the ghettoes, people like Dick Gregory and Caeser Chavez. We must admit that pain-extreme pain-is not only possible but existing at this very moment. l.iniess we have the com­passion to help these peoples-and this co!llpassion must begin with a genuine spmtual sympathy-they will lose hope. And this is what makes death the enemy. We cannot have such compassion unless we also have a feeling for what they are going through. 
Isn't this what Christ's message is all about? How can we even begin to know what Christ's birth and death means unless we begin to admit the great burden of being human? We, as Christ, must accept pain and defeat it by passing through it. We who have known goodness and comfort cannot yell "My God, My God why hast though forsaken me without going and finishing the rest of Psalm 22: "And my sould will live for Him, my children will serve Him, men will procalim the Lorrd to generations still to come, his righteiousness to a people yet unborn." Christ's death was this Psalm because it is both the cry of despair and the turning of that despair into glory. It is because Christ endured and passed through, it is because he died and suffered, it is because he knew what it was to human in the most terrible of ways: suffering and death. But it also because Christ loved, loved the millions of people removed from him in time and place, loved people his human eyes would never see. He suffered fro them that they might suffer less by knwoing that someone loved them. He defeated suffering and death so that those who suffer and die might have hope. 

Urchin's Wisdom 
....-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiia n n m c c a r r y 
As you read this Thanksgiving issue of the Observl'r you're probably going to wonder what's up. There's no standard cartoon of a turkey on the chopping block or felicitous greetings and salutations printed in rainbow inks. Instead we've centered on a theme which will dominate campus dicussions and activities this week: the world hunger cns1s. · It's a problem championed in­ternationally by our president and sup­ported locally by a core of energetic, dedicated people who unselfishly respond to similar campaigns regularly. You'll see them sharing a tea and rice meal in the dining hall and celebrating a mass in Sacred Heart with Father Hesburgh Tuesday night. 
They're the exceptions. Most of us are unaware of what's going on, don't care or are tired of hearing about it. World hunger-­seems a bit far removed doesn't it, not the subject you anticipate reading al;lOut at lunch after you finish Doonesbury and the sports page. It almost seems absured to think that the actions of a few thousand middleclass students in South Bend, Indiana can have any effect on the lives of millions everywhere who go to bed hungry; many of us can't even get up for breakfast the next morning. 
What does it feel like to be really hungry? 
Our experience is vicarious--we see 
newsclips of Biafra, Bangledesh and read 
Newsweek and Time. May be you even talk 
about it in the Huddle. Its easy to generalize 
and hide behind the rationalization that 
what little we can do is insignificant in the 
face of such a great shortage. 
On Sunday mornings, Father Griffin regularly calls on urchins to supply petitions at the beginning of the prayer of the Faith­ful. Yesterday, we heard the usual for-my­mom-and-dad's , for-grandma-and­grandpa's and sisters and brothers One 
. • 'f.' ••. "... '' .. 
little boy stepped forward and asked that we pray for the. hungry people of the world. 
I spoke with the boy's parents after mass, wondering if he had been prompted. They too had shared my surprise at their child's 'petition. His mother went on the explain that they had been talking about it at home quite a bit and evidently it had made an impression on him. 
I felt a little guilty. We've been reading and talking about it on campus quite a bit, too. But somewhere between a paper, a project and looking forward to Thanksgiving break I had lost my awareness and active concern. I hadn't even though to pray about it let alone con.­tribute to any of the other efforts. 
This boy, a third my age, had realized much more than I. All he could do was drop a dollar his father gave him into the collection basket Griff passed around and ask us to pray for hungry people. Mean­while, I was sitting around bullshitting with a bunch of my friends wondering how anything we could do here in the next few days could have any effect on a world crisis. My urchin friend, however, recongized his limitations, and went ahead, doing what he could in spite of them. 
There seems to be a problem in respon­
ding to the problem. Maybe we're too much 
alike, maybe we're tired of being a 
Christian community, of patronizing lost 
causes and being ' philanthropists and 
awareness groups. On the other hand, our 
homogenous nature could work for us in this 
case or in any campaigns like it which need 
popular support. From our common base 
can stem our power. 
Pernaps all we can do is follow the ur­chin's example, donate a little cash and say a few prayers. Maybe somewhere between Doonesbury, the sports page and bites of our peanut butter sandwiches we can think about it. It's not much, but it's s<;>mething. 
. ·.. ·. ·................. ·. ·. ·. •.. . . . . .. . . . .... . 

Reactions 
fred r:~raver 
I sat in the photo library of the South Bend Tribune on Friday morning, searching for pictures to use in this issue. They gave me 
every picture that had been run for the last three months. Everything. Gerald Ford, Betty Ford, Marlon Brando, Elvis Presley, RichardNixon, Burt Reynolds. Everything . 
I was looking for a certain sort of picture. Coming across a photo of a starving child, belly bloated beyond all reasonable proportions, eyes tearful, holding an empty bowl, I had two simultaneous reactions. 
"Oh, God, that's horrible." 
"That'll look great on the page." 
The journalist puts himself in an existential situation. Detached, cool. Pretending to be an authority on what people should know. 
Hemingway wrote about this best. In the middle of "Big, Two­Hearted River", there is a recounting of a hanging wnich he covered as a young reporter. The entire scene is horribly played out, and then he moves on, to go back and write the story and put it down as best he can. · 
I sat and wrote tonight about hunger, with a full stomach. Even felt likedozing off while doing it. Quite a situation for a black humorist to write about. 
"Life is a tragedy to those who feel, a comedy to those who think." 
The thing is, as Camus writes, to do your job as it should be done. "Perhaps at the base of our problems lies the fact that people have not been doing their jobs as they should At the root of that fact lies an even more essential problem: what should we do? 
I find it hard to beleive that, if I do my job as best I can and as well as I believe it can be done, something will be accomplished. I find it hard to believe that anyone can have any effect whatsoever on the world. 
But I refuse to believe that we are ineffectual. 
So I go out and do it. 
There are two choices, once you come face to face with the fact of your own mortality: to live life as you see it can best be lived, and nada. 
Whether it's hunger, racism, sexism, this-ism or that-ism, the time comes when you either say that it is worth the effort to make a stand or it'snot worth it at all. 
I don't talk very much about football, but there's an analogy to be made here. Take our team this year. I think that they're going to win the next two. Either they win the next two, or they'lllose the next two; they'll go in pairs. But I think they'll win, not because I know anything about football but because I've noticed one trait in them. When it comes down to the line, and they can't sit back and watch the Saturday afternoon fade away anymore, they play. When it comes down to it, in the next two games, they'll probably rise up to it. 
The time comes when you can't let things just fade away. So yo'u go out and do something. Maybe you'll be wrong, it might not be very easy, you'll most likely screw it up, but you did something. 
And something needs to be done. · .. · · · •. · -. · · ·. · · 
' • ' I • : -._ ............, "' " .. ,. I , 4' .,_ " ... ,. 
Arab gunmen threaten explosion 
-~------~ ~-------~---~ 
Monday, November 25, 1974
14 the observer 

TUNIS <UPI> -Four Arab They first set a deadline for gunmen in a hijacked British compliance at 8 p.m., 2 p.m. EST, airliner Sunday swapped all but then extended it twice until 8 a.m., three hostages for seven freed 2 a.m. EST Monday, a governmentguerrilla prisoners and then spokesman said. threatened to blow up the plane The spokesman said the gunmen with all persons aboard unless they demanded that they be permittedgot guarantees of a safe getaway r to leave the airliner as free men 
and not be handed over to the 

Faced with a refusal by .Arab Palestine Liberation Organization, nations to grant them asylum and the main guerrilla organizationthreatened with reprisals by irate which has denounced them as fellow Palestinian organizations, renegades and hirelings.the four gunmen said they will call The gunmen, who Sundayoff their threat to blow up the plane released the remaining hostageswith themselves, their colleagues except the three flight crew and three British pilots only if they members, have told Tunisian get firm guarantees of freedom. authorities they will blow up the 
Gas prices coinpared 
by Mike Edwards variation in prices. The following Staff Reporter is a brief list of gasoline prices as of Nov. 24, 1974 for various gasoline 
An Observer survey of several stations in the vicinity of campus. 

local stations reveals considerable plane at 8 p.m., 2 p.m. EST, unless 
a navigator of the captive British On Friday the gunmen freed four their demands are met. Airlines VC10 in the hope of flying persons, and an additional 13 were 
The gunmen later put off the 

to some Arab sanctuary. let go on Saturday, when the deadline for the threatened ex­The terrorists let the remaining gunmen shot dead West German 
plosion until10p.m., 4p.m. EST, at passengers and part of the crew banker Werner G. Kehl, 43, a the insistence of Tunisian Interior leave the plane in several groups father of three. Minister Tabar Belkhodja, PLO 
after the two Palestinians from On Sunday they first released a representative Abou lyad, and Holland landed in a chartered DC9. plane hostess, then four men, and Bl'itich Foreign Ministry Middle The hostages, including children then two groups of eight persons,East Department head James and women, told newsmen they retaining only the three flight crew 
Craig, Tunsian officials said. 

have not been ill-treated by the members on board. Diplomatic
The three fliers are urging the hijackers, who captured the sources said the hijackers had Tunsian government to comply London-to-Singapore jetliner in a trouble finding a friendly Arab with the hijackers request, the shoot-out during a refueling stop country that would be prepared to spokesman said. The gunmen Thursday in Dubai in which a five them landing permission and 
have killed one passenger in cold stewardess was lightly wounded. let them step down on its soil. blood and dumped his body on the 
The two guerrillas flown in from The Palestine Liberation tarmac here Saturday to back 
Holland raised their manacled Organization and most Arab their previous ultimatums. hands over their head and flashed capitals have denounced the hijack 
The new ultimatum came when "V" for victory signs as they as harmful to the Palestinian no Arab country agreed to give the 

rejoined their companions in the cause. terrorists sanctuary. hijacked plane. The last release of the hostages
The remaining passengers were The hijackers originally and the transfer of the two let go when the Dutch government demanded the release of 13 guerrillas aboard the VC10 took met the last demand and released 
guerrillas from Egypt but settled place in confusion, making it two Palestinians serving jail terms for the release of five from Cairo­uncertain how many hostages
for airplane hijacking and flew all of them members of a com­ultimately had been on board. them to Tunis. Government of­mando which staged a bomb The bulk of the freed passengers
ficials said the gunmen, armed massacre at Rome airfield last and crew were immediately flown 

with machineguns, hand grenades December in which 32 persons home out of Tunis by commercial and pistols, retained two pilots and airliners.
were killed. 

another 
tennpaperto do? 
Next time you're researching a tenn paper, don't limit your source material to books and periodicals. There are probably several doctoral dissertations highly releoont to your topic -and they're easier to find than you think! Visit the new Dissertation Center display in the main library, and leam about the resources de­signed to help you locate the right dissertation. Re­sources like the ... 
COMPREHENSNE DISSERTATION INDEX­a definitive 37-volume reference, available in the li­brary, which enables you to quickly determine what dissertations have been written on your subject; 
DISSERTATION ABSTRACTS INTERNA­TIONAL -a monthly publication containing synopses of dissertations, also available in the library; 
DA TRIX II Search Service -a computerized, mail-order system which will prepare, in response to your individual inquiry, an interdisciplinary list ofdisser­tations related to your topic; 
Xerox University Microfilms' dissertation publish­ing service, which will produce copies of most disserta­tions-either on microfilm @$5.00 or paperbound @$11.00-at your request. 
For further explanations, and DATRIX II and Dissertation Order Forms, come to the Dissertation Center.. Your term paper stands to benefit. 
Establishment 
Garry's Shell 415 Dixie Way South 
Veldman's Standard 405 Dixie Way South 
Roseland Standard 320 Dixie Way South 
Dan's Sunoco 146 Dixie Way South 
Red Bird Self Service llO Dixie Way North 
Self Service <Union 76) 508 Dixie Way North 
Russ Huss Sunoco 
Jim Macha wah's Clark 207 Dixie Way North 
Dick's Amoco ll02 South Bend Ave. 
Texaco 18519 St. Road 23 
Price of Premium 58.7 
58.9 
57.9 
58.9 
50.9 
49.9 
60.9 
57.9 
53.9 
Regular 54.7 54.9 53.9 54.9 48.9 47.9 56.9 51.9 51.9 49.9 
Non-leaded 
56.9 
55.9 
53.9 
50.9 
53.9 
55.9 
HAPPY THANKSGIVING 

from the management, 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 

Streakers escape SMC security 
by Thomas O'Neil Staff Reporter 
Only the dorm director saw the streakers in Regina Hall last Wednesday at 1:43 a.m. Many girls, however, claimed later to have seen them, and a number of conflicting rumors spread quickly. Sollie of them claimed that during the escape of the streakers the get­away car was impour1ded by SMC security and South Bend police. 
This rumor was partially true. Shortly after the streakerswent in the main door of Regina Hall, ran down the main hallway, and retreated immediately, a car was discovered by St. Mary's security 
parked  in  a  fire  Jane  by  the  
Douglas Rd. g ate.  
"We're  not  saying  it  was  the  

streaker's car," explained Security Director Anthony Kovatch. "But it was parked in a fire lane, so we had it towed to a local gas station." 
The next day two young men came into the SMC Security office claiming they had run out of gas the night before and abandoned their car the Douglas Rd. gate. After saying they knew nothing of the streaking incident, they were directed to the gas station where their car had been towed. 
"The officers on duty that night didn't get a close enough look at the streakers to positively identify them," Kovatch explained. "The streaker ran though the old soybean field and out toward the toll road. One of them did fall on some concrete-I imagine he hurt himself -but they got away." 
Kovatch said that the descrip­tions he has of them are vague. 

Ford returns to US; Three nation tour termed success by ~nan y 
(continued from page 1) 
After the signing was sealed with champagne toasts, Ford and Brezhnev took a 75-minute tour of 
the once "forbidden" city close to the Chinese border. The Tass News Agency said thousands of Soviets waved flags and cheered as the limousine passed. 
Upon his departure aboard Air Force One, Ford told Brezhnev, "Good-bye and God bless you." 
Kissinger told newsmen the formal pact probably will be signed when Brezhnev visits Washington next .June if strategic arms limiatation negotiatiors have completed the detail work.. They are scheduled to begin in Geneva in January. 
The tv,:o world leaders ap­parently struck a dose personal rapport during the summit, the President's first venture into super-power diplomacy. 
Presidential aides made it clear that they viewed the agreement as a major victory, surely the greatest feat of the four-month old J<'ord administration. 
Press St'cretary Hon Nessen said "the President will be returning home in triumph." 
Kissinger. who was at Nessen's side on the train trip, paused and said, "I think the President should be modest. The thing speaks for itself. The back of this thing the arms race is broken." . 
Sources with the Ford party said the heart of the agreement would allow Hussia to keep its lead in the number of individual missiles, but permit the United States to hold its edge in multiplewarheadscapable 
A•amIUIIIIII -o1
APITD BUNT Fikn 
ROGER SUSANNAH 
MOORE YORK 
GOLD 

-·An AWUAITIITI,.._­
~ 
Phone 288-8488 for times & directions 
. C.LPSE F.R.l;l; F'~RI<JNG. 
additional aim would be to reduce the nuclear arms stock"de, not merely to limit its growth. 
Depending on the details of the proposal, Ford may run into some truble with Congress, particularly from Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D­Wash., a probably 1976 presidential candidate, who strongly opposed the original SALT agreement in 1972 and who has insisted the United States must maintain numerical parity on total missiles. 
Kissinger cautioned that although he is optimistic of turning the preliminary agrtement into a working program. many obstacles remain. 
"The negotiations on the final agreement. could be difficult and will have many technical com­plexities," Kissinger told a news conference. "We believe that the target is achievable. If it is achieved, it will mean that the cap has been put on the arms race for a period of 10 years. This cap is substantially bt>low the capabilities of either side. 
"The element of insecurity 
inherent in an arms race in which 
both sides are attempting to an­
ticipate not only the actual 
programs but thecapabilitiesof the 
other side,will be substantially 
reduced' with levels achieved by a 
10-year period of agreement.'' 
A joint communique issued after 
the summit stressed "the im­
portance and necessity of serious 
efforts to avert dangers linked with 
the proliferation of nuclear 
weapons in the world." 
THE FINAL GUN EVERY NONDAY 
TELL NO< YOO SAW IT 
FIRST IN TI-E CJJSERVER 
1t said hn.th sides "stressed the importance of raising the ef­fectiveness of the nuclear non­proliferation treaty." The com­munique said the talks took place in an atmosphere of frankness and mutual understanding," and underlined the "exceedingly great" value of summit meetings. 
Overshadowed by the arms agreement was a statement in­dicating both nations will make every effort to obtain lasting peace in the Middle East "with due ac­count taken of the legitimate in­terests of all people in the area, including the Palestinian people." 
The statement said the Geneva peace conference on the Middle East should resume as soon as possible and play an important role in reaching a solution to the on-going crisis. 
A joint Ford-Brezhnev statement issued apart from the communique said further strategic arms negotiations will be based on the following provisions: 
-An interim agreement signed May 26, 1972, will remain in force until October, 1977. 
-A new agreement will cover the period from Octooer, 1977 to Dec. 31, 1985. 
-The new agreement will establish limits for missiles and the number of missiles which may be equipped with multiple warheads. 
-Further negotiations begin­ning no later than 1980-81 will decide whether there should be further arms limits or cutbacks. 


"One of them was wearing a stocking cap," he said. "All three of them were carrying their clothes under their arms, and one of them had long hair and a beard." 
He did not exclude the possibility that the towed car was that of the streakers. "But it's hard for me to visualize a college student dumb enough to put his car where everyone could see it," he remarked. 
Kovatch restated his contention 
c 
that the car was towed only because it was in a fire lane and not because it could have been the streakers' car. 
"We have no way of connecting the description of the streakers with the boys who claimed the car the next day," he expalined. 
Officer Harsanyi, who was also present during the interview, commented, "They all look the same to me, anyway." 
"And especially at two in the morning," Kovatch added. 
Is there a bowl game in your future? Answer: \1\e're in! Where: (Jrange Bowl 
We need student or faculty organizers to promote the trip arrangements. Earn all or a portion of the travel costs. 
Fly, drive, or train to Miami, December 27, SS FLAVIA 3 ·day cruise to Nassau, Miami hotel 3 nights or Miami only for 3 • 4 nights. 
Write or call for brochure today! 
Limited space available. 
Robertson Travel Post Inc. 2732 CAHABA Road 
MOUNTAIN BROOK,ALABAMA T e I. {2 0 5 ) 8 7 9 ·0 4 6 1 Our 12 t h year of Bowl Travels 
-~---~------~-----------~--. 
•
PLO departs from United States 1n secrecy 
NEW YORK <UPI) -The Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion's United Nations delegation left New York Sunday night after saying they might be back again "soon and often." 
The PLO delegation left as it arrived, in secrecy. 
MyLai 
OKLAHOMA CITY <UPil ­An Army officer reprimanded in 1971 for participating in a 

coverup  of  the  My  Lai  
massacre  was  quoted  in  an  
Oklahoma  City  newspaper  Sun­ 

day as saying the massacre was directed by the Central Intelligence Agency. 
The officer's rPport was immediately denied by the general who headed the Army's investigation of the 1968 in­cident. 
Capt. Dennis H. Johnson of Ft. Lewis, Wash., an intelli­
Darby's to open 

Darby O'Gill, proprietor of the exclusive "Chez Darbee" in the Rathskellar of Lafortune, is pleased to announc~ the opening of his club for the general public on Thanksgiving Day. 
Though the club will not be serving dinner for its guests, it will be open from lp.m. to 1 a.m. with copious snacks and refreshments from 7 p.m. on. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, faithful master of the dog O'Gill, wishes it to be made dnown that, "great preparations have been made to insure a joyous occasion for all, and all are invited." 
Barring earthquakes and postal strikes the film "My Fair Lady", Darby's all-time favorite movie, will be shown at 4 and 10 p.m. In regards to other entertainments, the incorrigible pup stated that musicians, mimes, clowns, actors, and all other assorted bards and jesters shall consider themselves honored guests of the "Chez Darbee" that evening, provided they offer to share their talents. 
O'Gill stated that his Place would have to be closed on Wed­nesday Nov. 27 to prepare for the Thanksgiving Festivities. Normal hours will resume on the Monday following break. 
Just under $500 has been raised so far to pay for the event. Anyone wishing to contribute can do sto at the Ombudsman's office in LaFortune on Monday and Tuesday or at Chez Darbee on 
Thursday. Anyone wishing to help out on Thursday may get in touch with Ombudsman Bill McLean at 7638 or 8776 by Wedmesday noon. 
O'Gill and Griffin are also in­viting guests to their coffee house following Fr. Hesburgh's 11:00 
p.m. mass for world hunger on Tuesday. 
WAITRESSES NEEDED AT FAT WALLY'S 
2046 So. Bend Ave. 
277-0570 APPLY IN PERSON 
• y ....... lw • " • 
The delegation arrived 14 1days ago and Sunday concluded lwhat they they called "success­
ful  and  constructive"  talks  at  
•the  U.N.  on  the  future  of  
Palestine.  

"You might see us soon and often. Our stay has been 
blamed 
gence officer with the task force that raided My Lai, was quoted in a copyrighted Sunday Oklahoman story by Jack Taylor as saying, "My Lai itself was an operation that was directed from higher sources ­from the CIA -in Quang Ngai and Saigon." 
Charges against Johnson for participating in a coverup of the massacre wpre dismissed for lack of evidence, but he was reprimanded by the secretary of the Army. 
The article stated Johnson accompanied My Lai task force successful and constructive," said delegation spokesman Sha­fiq ai-Hout earlier Sunday. 

A police department spokes­man said the delegation's plane took off from Kennedy Airport at 8:18 p.m. EDT. The spokesman said he di(l not 
on CIA 

commander Lt. Col. Frank A. 
Barker to a secret meeting with 
two men he believed to be CIA 
agents just before the My Lai 
operation. 

Johnson said he was excluded from the meeting at the CIA's local headquarters in Quang Ngai, capital of the province where My Lai is located. 
Barker was killed in action a few weeks after the Marctr 16, 1968, massacre. 
A report on the Army investigation of My Lai was released last week and made no mention of the CIA. 
know what airline the delega­tion left on or to what . country it was going. 
Another spokesman for the delegation, Randi Khaldi, said some members of the group went sightseeing for several hours before they left the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel for the airport. 
About their 14-day stay here, Hout said, "We consider ourselves being at the United Nations more than being in the United States." 
He added that "what Ameri­cans -American people I mean -1 have met, I have found generous, hospitable and eager to learn." 
The PLO delegation arrived on Nov. 11 amid the tightest security screen accorded fo­reign visitors since former Soviet Premier Nikita Khrush­chev's visit in 1965. PLO leader Yasir Arafat arrived early on the morning of Nov. 13 and addressed a packed U.N. General Assembly later the same day. He left the United States early the next morning. 

r;;;::;;;;-~7a-;::-} ~ 20 Percent Off i 
:-········-·-·········-= 


Paperback books 
110-ZAO
Magazines Novelty items Paraphernalia

§~~-·~~­
fown & C'?untry :·~ ~ ' Original paintings Shopping Center · . _ . 7 -· J Art supplies Mini-mall 
219-256-0111

Mi.iliawaka 
THE ROMA PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your Host Frank Anastasio 'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' LIVE B A N D S 0 N WEEK EN D S 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Pla.za 
Announcing the Tl SR-50 super slide rule calculator now only $149.95 

Happy Rockefeller has second mastectomy 
Monday, November 25, 1974 the observer 17 
Sec. Simon meets to help end coal strike 
By JULIANNE HASTINGS 
NEW YORK <UPI l -Mar­garetta "Happy" Rockefeller has a "pinpoint" of cancer in her right breast and will undergo her second mastecto­my operation on Monday, he husband, Vice-president desig­nate Nelson A. Rockefeller announced Sunday. 
The wife of the former New 
York Governor, who learned 
she needed the operation one 
week ago, was accompanied by 
her husband as she checked 
into Memorial Sloan-Kettering 
Cancer Institute in New York 
moments after 6 p.m. EDT. 
The pale, obviously concerned 
Rockefeller made the disclosure 
after Happy, who had her left 
breast removed because of 
cancer on Oct. 17, slipped 
quietly into the Sloan-Kettering 
Memorial Hospital to prepare 
for surgery. 
By CHARLES E. FLINNER 
WASHINGTON <U P ll Treasury Secretary William E. Simon met Sunday with seven top coal industry officials in an attempt to help miners and operators ena a 13-day nation­wide strike that has severely damaged the nation's economy. 
The government's top labor 
troubleshooter. W i I I i a m J. Usery Jr., also summoned representatives of both sides to an urgent afternoon meeting aimed at settling the dispute. 
Tentative settlement reached to end 
six-day-old 
PHOENIX, Ariz. <UPI) -Ten­tative settlement of the six-day-old Greyhound Bus Lines strike which had idled 16,000 employees was announced Sunday and drivers and other employees started to return to work. 
A company spokesman in San Francisco said the first buses were to be under way within six hours of the midday announcement of the agreement. 
It was the first contract agreement covering all the bus company's employees in the continental United States. Details of the three-year pact were not disclosed pending ratification, which was to be done through mailed ballots, expected to take three weeks. 
James L. Kerrigan, president of Greyhound Lines, announced the settlement and said the drivers, baggage handlers and terminal employes were being asked to return to work pending a vote on the proposed pact by rank-and-file members (}f the Amalgamated Council of Greyhound Divisions. 
It was the first nationwide strike 
against Greyhound, which carries 
about 70 million passengers an­
nually. Employees walked out Nov. 
18 at noon. Buses pulled to the 
nearest terminals, stranding 
passengers across the country. 
The company had been divided 
into zones for bargaining purposes 
prior to June 1, 1974, when the 
zones were consolidated into a 
national bargaining unit under the 
amalgamated council. 
Talks started Sept. 16, broke 
down on Oct. 24 and resumed Nov. 
16 under the direction of federal 
m~diators for nine straight days 
until the union council agreed to 
accept the tentative contract offer 
of the company and recommend 
acceptance.
"We're pleased that we were 
able to settle the matter in time to 
At the news conference in the hospital, Rockefeller told repor­ters, "Happy sends you her love and hopes you understand her coming into the hospital quietly. But she didn't feel like talking to anyone. 
"Tomorrow she will undergo a right-breast mastectomy," he said. 
Rockefeller said doctors at the cancer institute discovered a "pinhead of diseased cells" when they did a biopsy of his wife's right breast after remo­val of her cancerous left breast on Oct. 17. 
He said the hospital's chief executive, Dr. Edward J. Beattie, wanted to make an announcement of the finding at that time but he, Rockefeller, said he did not want to tell Mrs. Rockefeller "or anyone" that further treatment or another operation might be required. 
Nicholas T. Camicia, chair­man of the Bituminous Coal Operators Association, said in a statement handed to reporters at a downtown hotel that Simon requested the meeting with industry spokesmen because of increasing "gravity of the present situation." 
"Mr. Simon impressed upon the committee the seriousness with which President Ford and other administration officials view the coal strike," said Camiciats s t a t e m e n t. "He 
Greyhound Bus strike 
get many passengers home for inflation," he said. "They know, Thanksgiving," Kerrigan said. too, that rising costs have created 
"The issue was mainly inflation. additional pressures on us. We We want our employes to have the believe this settlement takes both money necessary to meet rising into account." 
CALIFORNA ·BOUND SENIORS 

PARTY TONIGHT 
AT THE 
SENIOR CLUB 
7:00 -1 :00 
ALL PROCEEDS WILL GO TO THE CHEERLEADERS. DOOR PRIZES* SPECIALS * 
urged us to seeR an early resolution of the problem." 
Usery, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Ser­vice, also attended the meeting in advance of a 3 p.m. EST session with industry and UMW negotiators. 
Camicia said, "We told Secretary Simon that represen­tatives of the BCOA would meet with Mr. <Arnold> Miller and other UMW officers today for further discussions." 
The industry advisory com­mittee and union officials got 
"I said, 'Look, you are not only responsible for her physi­cal care, but for her psychologi­cal care as well,' " Rockefeller said he told Dr. Beattie. "So nothing was said." 
"I talked to Happy's physi­cian <Dr. Jerome Urban) and he said it could be taken care of by X-ray, or it could-be taken care of by chemo­therapy," he said. 
Rockefeller said his wife spoke with Dr. Urban one week ago. "We decided the best and the safest thing would be to go through with an operation," he said. 
The governor said that he did not know exactly what type of operation his wife would undergo in the morning. But he said it would be "less severe than the last one." A hospital spokesman said that the type of operation will be decided upon Monday morning. 

The first cancer operation performed on Mrs. Rockefeller was described as a "modified radical mastectomy," when about half of the major pectoral muscle tissue was removed. 
Rockefeller described his wife's mood as "relaxed" and "confident." 
"In the room upstairs there was one arrangement of flo­wers, and that was from Betty Ford," Rockefeller said, refer­ring to the wife of the President. 
"I think she and Happy have developed a tremendous bond of friendship and affection sharing their common prob­lem," he said. Mrs. Ford also has a mastectomy for a her cancerous right breast Sept. 28. 
Mrs. Rockefeller discovered she might have had cancer when she performed a self­examination after Mrs. Ford's operation. 
together at noon for an informal closed session, follow­ing two such meetings Saturday lasting three hours. 
Union and coal industry negotiators announced a con­tract settlement Nov. 13, one day after the walkout by 120,000 soft coal miners. But the UMW bargaining council, which must approve the pact before it can be submitted to the member­ship for ratification, balked at some of the language and called for renegotiation on several points. 
The delays will push the strike into December, since it will take 10 days or more for a ratification vote even after the bargain council demands have 
Hospital officials said Mrs. Rockefeller would be operated on "first thing" Monday. Although they did not give a time, a hospital spokesman said the operating schedule usually starts about 8:30 a.m. 
Rockefeller said he would be at the hospital when Mrs. Rockefeller begins surgery. 
Rockefeller said he told Peter Rodino, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, about his wife's operation Thursday. He said Rodino "couldn't have been more understanding." 
The commi.ttee is holding hearing of Rockefeller's nomi­nation as vice president. Rockefeller said he was told, "They'll call me if they need me." 
According to Rockefeller, Rodino scheduled two long days of hearings instead of the three shorter days originally planned. 
submitted to members. 
Usery, the administration's c h i e f Iabor troubleshooter, asked for the Sunday meeting in telegrams Saturday to Camicia and Miller, the UMW president, saying: 
"This work stoppage has brought an adverse impact upon the entire nation, and the condition grows more serious with each passing day The mounting toll this dispute is inflicting on the nation now makes it imperative that a resolution be reached promp­tly." 
Guy Farmer, chief negotiator for the coal operators, had indicated Saturday that the informal talks had produced 
-----------------., 

Irish Cagers prepare for Valpo 
--~-­
18 the observer Monday, November 25, 1974 
by Bill Delaney 
Right after Coach Ara Par­seghian and his Irish Football Team take on the' explosive Trojans of USC late Saturday afternoon in 1the 1 Irish's regular­season finale, Basketball Coach Digger Phelps and his crew will kick off their season on the road against Valparaiso at 8 pm. 
"We just want to continue 1where1we left off from last year," commented Head Coach Digger Phelps before the team's last workout Friday afternoon .. "Valpo will be going into the game thinking that we're down because we've losL Broke and Shu (former Irish stars Gary Brokaw and John Shumate), but we feel ju~t the opposite -we feel ready to play." 
Phelps will be starting the same 
team he has been going with since 
preseason started in October. 
"Clay and Martin will go at 
guards, Crotty will be in middle, 
_!lnd Dantley and Paterno will be in 
theforward spots," said Phelps. 
"We'll try to get Toby (Knight), 
Carpenter and Batton in as early 
as we can to give them the playing 
time they need to help us." 
One of the critical areas of im­
portance to Phelps is the 
rebounding strength he can count 
on during the season. 
"We must be able to send four men to the boards every time we shoot, or we're going to be in for a lot of trouble," noted Phelps. "We must be aggressive in trying to keep our opponents off the boards, while keeping out of foul trouble at the same time. Dantley and Paterno must be able to follow their shots, and Clay will be counted on to help out on both boards." 
Although the Irish easily defeated the Crusaders by 50 points ( 112-62) a year ago, Phelps and his coaches are not taking any chances in preparation against Valpo. "They're an experienced team that runs a solid offense," noted Assistant Coach Frank McLaughlin. They have ex­perience on their side with three returneed and five seniors in the starting five. Their big man (Joel Oberman> is 6'7, and he's started for the past two years. We definitely can't make any mistakes if we want to win." 
Phelps will be counting on his two seniors to provide the leadership and the playing ability need to a winning season. 
"Dwight and Peter definitely have to put out to make this season a successful one," said Phelps. "If Clay can lead with his consistency, he'll really help the yound kig kids. 
He has to go th the boards with guys 6'8, 6'9 , and I hope he can do it. He's got all the tools to do a great job, and the job he's done for us the past two years can only make him a better ballplayer." 
"As for Peter, he'll probably go unnoticed all season as Novak did last year," noted Digger. "His function will to be to keep the ball alive, and play defense against our opponent's big man. He's a pretty gutsy kid, and his defense will certainly help us, because it's always the defense that creates the offense. I'd rather win 92-83 (as the Irish did against the Athlets in Action) than lose 71-70 (as UCLA did to Notre Dame last year)." 
Following the Valpo contest, the Irish face four crucial tests before Christmas break in the ACC. 
"We're heading into a critical part of our schedule with only one game under our belt after Valpo," said Phelps. "Kansas and Indiana are ranked in the top five, and Northwestern and Princeton have the potential to go to post-season tourneys. We've got to win these four games when we come home, and I just hope that people aren't spoiled with winning, because one game isn't the whole season." 
Digger is also counting on the student participation to help the team. "We've got to make things happen this year," said Phelps. 


The Notre Dame basketball team opens its 1974-75 season Saturday night against Valparaiso. The 
Irish had their last public 

"Wecould easily have been 18-8 last season, but we made it. We're going to steal some games we shouldn't this season, and we need the students there. We don't want to play 26 road games without any 
student support, because they're an integral part of our program." 

Five days remain before the opener against Valpo, and Digger still has the same goals for this, his fourth Irish team. "We stillhave 
the goal of going to a post-season tourney, and with the team we have this year, we definitely have to work hard to achieve our goals." For Digger and his Irish, the fulfillment of those goals begins Saturday night. 
W~t atnlnnial 
'ancakr ilfnusr 
'Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
s!l=:::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::' :;:; 35 Varieties of Pancakes .:::: ~:~:Chicken -Steak -·~Sandwiches ::~:~ !!!~Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :~i~\ =a====::==================~===~=================~============================================~· 

warm up last night in the annual intrasquad benefit game. 
COMEDY GREATS Marx Bros Laurel & Hardy 
W.C. Fields Charlie Chaplin 3 Stooges Little Rascals Mae West Abbott & Costello 
7, 9,11 EngAud $1 
100 Center 
TFI:E 
I ~EA'-x-·H-·-..--E----q­
BA.NAN.A 
CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES 
10% off on belts 
with this Ad 
WANTED 
Need ride to Purdue, Tues. or Wed. Call Tom, 1620. 
Need 1 or 2 girls to share Notre Dame apartments. Call 287-2152. 
Need ride to Wash., DC, Arlington, Virginia, or vicinity. Can leave Tuesday evening. Call 3443, Dave. 
Need two people for five-person house for next semester. Call 288~ 0144. 
Ride need to Boston Thanksgiving. Leave anytime. Steve, 1797. 
Two people need ride to Pitt for Thanksgiving. Call Kit, 6972. 
Need ride to Detroit on Wed. after 
3:15. Call Chris, 277-0008. 
Need ride to NYC (Thanksgiving). Will share cost. John, 7289. 
Need ride to Washington, DC, for Thanksgiving break call Mark, 3462. 

CLASSIFIED RDS 
U.S. 
31 (Dixieway) North Your Host Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50 


Need ride BAD: Rochester, Minneapolis, or anywhere in south central Minn. for Thanksgiving. Will pay. Jim, 277~0107. Need ride to Detroit Tues., 26th. Will pay. Call 1132.  Senior Southern Cal trip package for sale. Call Rob c., 283~ 1779. Merry Christmas: 4 month~old 300 watt component stereo system. 41 percent off list price. Steve, 1403.  Very safe, conv<'nient 2 bedroom apartment to shilre with one girl for spring semester. $60 includes utilities. 287-5587, or 282 1367. LOST AND FOUND  
Need ride to Chicago, Wed. 11-27. Will share expenses. Call Mike, 3380. Looking for riders io New Jersey for Thanksgiving break. Leaving Tues., Nov. 26, at 1 p.m. Call Joe, 3302. Need ride to Chicago for Thanksgiving break on Tues. or Wed. Will share expenses. Call Jim, 3302.  NOTICES Christmas gifts for friends, family, self: selling wooden framed posters, any kind~ Including black light; last forever. Call 8368~ Do you need il ride over Thanksgiving break? Wilson Driveaway has cars going to all parts of the nation. For info, call Jim at 1694 after 1i pm.  Lost: Rawlings leather basketball at ACC on Wed. night. Reward. Call 8829. Lost: quart thermos in the Library. Please call Norm, 277~ 0130. Lost: umbrella during registration at Stepan Center. Call 8255. Found: yellow notebook at the Observer. Ca II 8661.  
Need many USC tickets. Call 2757.  289~  Please return the mistakenly taken class ring from Campus View Apts. Reward. Call 277-0026.  PERSONALS  
FOR SALE  GOOFUS YPPAH YADHT  RIB  A  DAY  
One Senior Trip ticket for females. Terms available. Sue, 7965. '69 Cutlass. 58 thou3and miles, 4 speed. Call 232-7268 before 5:00. After 5:00 ask for Diane at Roc~ co's. Fischer skis, Geze bindings, poles. Raichle boots, used 3 times. 233­8814.  FOR RENT 1 bedroom apartment in Crest~ wood. Appliances furnished. Noise, no problem. Sublet through summer. 234-5320. Furnished apts: 503 W. Jefferson duples, 3 rooms each, first and second floors. Gas heat furnished. 289-6307' 234-0596.  EARLY CAFOOFUS Ex-Pre~Med Sugar~ Boogar: Thanks for the Early B~day present. Have fun at S~Cal. The original poodle Happy Birthday Susan! Murph, Camel, Daer, Ceilie, and Mo  

Is it true that old men still need "it" or do they qet cold feet from lack of circulation? 
For verification i!Sk your COS. Happy 22nd. 
To all the potheildS in 437: I don't know where you're at But I hope I never lose you. 
Love, B. 
Duck: Thanks. Hope to hear a quack soon. 
S. 
Burton & Bart: Beautiful birthday boys, R bulls blossoming? Does Kilt give freebies? 
N. O'Haira 
S. Perman 
Brandy, you're a fine girl. What a good roomie you've been, But now that you're twenty Please don't act nutty And drink yourself sick on your name. 
Your Roomie 
Colleen: Nothing witty to say; Have a Happy day Saturday 
Love, Tom 



Irish icers sweep North Dakota 
by Bob Kissel 
Irish hockey coach Lefty Smith, reputed for his jocose one-liners, might have a new quip ready­take that ice and sweep it. The Notre Dame icers took a pair of games from the Fighting Sioux of North Dakota, winning 5-3 Friday night and 3-2 in overtime Saturday evening. 
Friday night the sophomore line of Clark Hamilton, 'Dukie' Walsh, and Alex Pirus forgot about the mythical sophomore jinx, scoring four goals. Center Walsh assisted on all four goals with linemates Pirus and Hamilton scoring two each. Again Len Moher had another outstanding game in the nets, making the kind of saves which cause opposing forwards to slam their sticks to the ice in utter disbelief and frustration. 
Once again the Irish opened the scoring in the game, this time at 
1:22 into the opening period. Brian Walsh hit the Alex Pirus flying up his right wing side with a perfect pass. Pirus skated around the helpless Sioux defenseman and lifted a backhand over the left shoulder of North Dakota goalie Pete Waselovich. 
North Dakota tied the game at 1­1 just two minutes later when the Sioux were on a power play situation. Daryl Drader put a slapshot past Moher from close in. Moher had 9 saves in the period, while Waselovich turned ·aside 6 Irish shots. 

Notre Dame took the lead again at 8:02 of the second period on a good headsup play by the Walsh­Pirus-Hamilton line. Again Pirus accepted the good pass from his center Walsh. The big right wing from Toronto, Ontario pulled the string from the special spot right of the Sioux netminder'. 
Waselovich made the initial save on the vicious slapper and made a second save when Pirus got his own rebound and tested Waselovich again. The second rebound came to Clark Hamilton, who lifted a wrist shot into the net from eight feet out. 

After a disallowed North Dakota goal <the whistle had blown after the save by Moher}, the Sioux tied the game at 9:42 of the second period. North Dakota left wing beat Moher on a slapshot, after taking the feed pass from linemate Don Swartz. Waselovi::h blocked The Sophomore line of Brian Walsh, Alex Pirus, and Clark Hamilton accounted for 7 goals over the 
10 shots in the period, with his weekend, as N D swept North Dakota at Grand Forks. 
counterpart Moher also saving 10 
advantage, Pat Conroy put the
shots. 
Irish ahead at 2:32 of the closing
The Irish wasted little time in 
period. Conroy, on a 1-1 break, lost 
taking the lead for the third and 
the puck trying to deke around
final time. After ace penalty 
Sioux defenseman Dave Geving.
killers Pat Novitski and Allen 
Freshman Geoff Collier trailed the 
Karsnia once again wasted two 
play, picked off the puck, and hit
minutes of Sioux' power play 
Conroy with the pass. Conroy beat 
Extra Points 

=======================::=========================================:::::::::::::::;::~=~=::::::::~:=:::::=:=======================:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===== The 1 ast time arotu1d 
"Four years goes by so rapidly," said Notre Dame coach Ara Parseghian. 
And every senior student, as he or she sat cheering in the cold, damp stands of Notre Dame stadium Saturday afternoon, realized how true this statement was. 
And every senior player knew also how very true it was; the starters, who week after week gave all they had and more so that their team, students and school would emerge victorious; the substitutes, who watched and waited eagerly from th sidelines for that time when they would be representing their school on the field; and the reserves, who spent their entire college career hoping for that one moment, however brief it might be, when they could look up into the stands from the field of play, and see the fans cheering for them. 
For every senior in the stands and on the field, the awareness of just how fast four years can go was intensified Saturday by the realization that an im­portant and integral part of their four years here was coming to an end. 
Never again would the members of the class of '75 sit in the stadium and cheer as a member of the Notre Dame student body. Never again would the seniors on the field play before their students, their fans, their school. · 
It was their last time around. 
And that is why a less important game against an average team such as Air Force was filled with spirit and emotion; it was something special. The home football game on the home football weekend had, over four years, come to represent a broader, more en­compassing part of their experience here at Notre Dame. With a tinge of sadness, they realized that after Saturday, they would have lost something they would never have again. 
Thus the wild enthusiasm in the senior section of 
the stands, and the sincere desire of the senior (and 
all> players to do their best and play well. They 
wanted to show that even though they were losing an 
important element of their college lives, they had 
.appreciated' it. 
For some, there was a deep-felt emotion involved, 
for others there was only a peripheral awareness, but 
all of the members of the class of '75 knew, con­
sciously or unconsciously, strikingly or subtly, that 
they would never be in that situation again. 
The reaction of the senior players differed ac­
cording to their personalities. All admitted that there 
was something at least a little bit special about the 
game; some sentiment was reduced by the stark 
reality of the two tough remaining games with USC 
and Alabama. And all expressed their pleasure with 
the fact that every senior on the squad was able to 
play in the game. 
Here are some reflections of some of the senior 
players: 
Mark Brenneman: "After being at a University 
that's been as good as this one has been to me, and I've had some great times here, it gets to you. I was a little misty-eyed. And the students are getting better. The tunnel and more signs help. The students really help a lot in getting the team psyched up." 
Steve Sylvester: "It's always special. But I guess in a year or so it will hit me a lot more. I'll come back for a game and look out there and say 'I was out there once'.lt's too bad a good thing like this has to come to an end, and it is a good thing." 
Greg Collins: "I guess I felt a little bit, I'm not too sentimental. It was kind of special. I was glad to see all the seniors play." 
Frank Allocco: "Going into it, it just felt like another game, but after a while, it was a special feeling. It was a great crowd. They appreciate us, and we certainly appreciate them. It's strange, I can't really hear the crowd, but I can just sort of feel them." 
Tom Clements: "Before the game, it's a different feeling. You realize you're never going to play here again. I don't really feel the full impact now, I'll just have to reflect on it afterwards. The crowd seemed more vocal, it was good to see all the seniors cheering." 
Wayne Bullock: "I wish I could have been out there, but we won. It's kind of a funny feeling, after being here four years. We wanted a big win, especially the seniors. We wanted to go out win­ners." 
Drew Mahalic: "It's not so much that it was the last home game as it was a matter of getting into the national championship picture. It's looking better every day. I was glad to see all the seniors cheering, but I kind of felt sorry for them because I think they're going tomissit and I guess I will too." 
Pete Demmerle: "It was most important that we won. I haven't had much time to think about it. It was nice to see all the seniors play. That's important, it's really nice to see guys who haven't had a chance to play get in the game." 
Reggie Barnett: "There is a realization that it's the last game home. I wanted to see all the senior get a chance to play. Near the end of the game, I felt the .seniors cheering. The crowd was great." 
Eric Penick: "It was very special. My first game that I got to start, and my last home game. I'm happy with the coaches that I got to play. The home crowd is very important, that's definite. All the seniors wanted a good game. Plus all the seniors got to play. 
We wanted an extra effort against Air Force so they could all get in." 
Coach Parseghian expanded on the aspect of getting all the seniors in the game. "We talked about it before the game, the fact that it was the last home game. It was good that we got so far ahead to do something about it." 
"Four years goes by so rapidly," he continued, but was interrupted and never finished. But whether you were "misty-eyed" or "not too sentimental", if you were a senior, you knew what he meant. 

Waselovich between his legs for the 3-2 lead. 
The Irish began to put the game out of reach when Alex Pirus tallied his second goal of the night. Again Pirus took the perfect pass from Walsh and blasted the puck past Waselovich at 5:21. 
The fifth Notre Dame score again was a byproduct of another Alex Pirus blast, a hard shot which Sioux goalie Waselovich should remember for a while. Pirus let go from the top of the left faceoff circle. The North Dakota goalie had to dive to make the save, but the left winger controlled the rebound and put in a backhand for the 5-2 ND lead. 
North Dakota made the game 5-3 on a power play goal by Tom Evans, when Len Moher was screened by his own defense. Moher made 19 saves in the period (38 for the game), while Waselovich turned aside 9 in the period (25 in the game). 
Brian Walsh continued a scoring pace in Saturday's game that started Friday night and will put him up with the WCHA leaders. 
Walsh turned in his second hat trick of the season Cthird career), accounting for all the Irish tallies. 
Thirty-seven seconds into overtime, alternate captain Les Larson was assessed two minutes for interference on a questionable call. Meanwhile, Pat •eonroy was 
• given a ten minute misconduct for expressing disagreement on the decision. The penalty killing squad, led by Novitski and Kar­snia, again hustled the Sioux out of their chance to win the game. Barely a minute after the Irish returned to full strength, Dave Howe scraped the puck off the boards in the ND zone and picked out Brian Walsh in a crowd with a perfect pass. Walsh skated to the blue-line, whirled into position, and rocketed a slapshot past Sioux goalie Waselovich. Walsh's goal gave Notre Dame their sweep on the road and the soph from the Boston area his hat. Walshopened the first period's scoring at the 6: 15 point. Paul Clarke hit him with a pinpoint pass, after Walsh had snuck behind the Sioux defenseman. Brian lifted a quick writst shot over Waselovich 's left shoulder. 
North Dakota tied the game at 
17:32 of the opening stanza on a late shift breakaway goal by Tom Goddard. Walsh scored his second goal to give the Irish a 2-1 lead going into the locker room between periods. The power play goal, coming after Pat Conroy and Clark Hamilton were stopped on a 2-1 break, was put in by Walsh after Conroy entered the puck to Walsh. The sophomore center netted the wrist shot at 18:14 of the period. Peterson made 7 saves in the . 
session, while Waselovich was able to turn aside 10. 
North Dakota tallied the sole goal in the second period whhen Sioux defenseman Daryl Dradner centered to forward Ken Gibb. Gibb, left alone in front of ND netminder Peterson, flipped the puck in to tie the bame at 2-2, 2:14 in the middle period. 
The highlights of the second period were provided for ND by the penalty killing units. Alex Pirus was called for spearing at 7:58 in a tussle with Sioux winger Roger Lamoureaux. Pirus was given a five minute minor, a game misconduct, and a one game suspension for spearing. Pirus must sit out the first game next weekend against the Michigan State Spartans. North Dakota did not score during their five minute power play opportunity. 
The third period was scoreless as both teams played conservative hockey, hoping for the opening to win the game. John Peterson had 12 saves in the period (37 in the game), and Pete Waselovich stopped 20 shots in the period (52 in the game). 
Next weekend the Notre Dame 
hockey team continues their 
season on the road, Friday and 
Saturday night at East Lansing, 
home of the Michigan State 
Spartans. Over the past weekend 
State dropped from first place to 
fourth place, after losing both 
games to Wisconsin at Madison. 
The Irish, now 4-4 in the league (6-' 
overall), moved up from seventh tl 
fifth place as a result of theil 
sweep of North Dakota. 
Coach Amo Bessone will have his two top forward lines intact from last year. The scoring attack is led by All-American Steve Colp whose 97 points on 43 goals and 54 assists led the nation. 
The second line will feature 
State's Tom Ross, who finished 
second last year in the WCHA 
scoring race. Other leading 
Spartan scorers returning are 
Daryl Rice, Brendon Moroney, 
and John Sturges. 
Michigan State's problem over the weekend which led to their two losses was their lack of ex­perience at the blueline and the loss of standout freshman goalie Gary Carr. Carr left school for personal reasons, while senior-to­be Norm Barnes, an All-American defenseman, signed a pro contract .. over the summer. 
Coach Lefty Smith may not 
relish the thought of playing the 
Spartans at East Lansing, but he 
sure is glad the Spartans have 
moved out of their old arena. 
Michigan State's new Biggie Munn 
Sports Complex seats a mere 7,000, 
and all seats should be filled next 
Saturday. 
Monday, Novem~r 25, 1974
the observer 

Irish blank Air Force; now 9-1 ••• 
by Pete McHugh 

Eric got sentimental: "For most of the seniors, this is their biggest game because it's their last. .." 
Tom got sentimental: "It's a 1 weird feeling, knowing that you'll never play here again..." I 
Ara got, well, sort of sen­timental: "The other day I was 1looking at the ball from the Sugar Bowl in my office..." . 
And fortunately Notre Dame got very sentimental (ala visions of 1973), as the Irish completely abused Air Force 38-0 Saturday afternoon in the final home game of the season. 
In what was not exactly an epic 

struggle, Notre Dame disposed of 
the Falco~s by~ 'fnd of the first 
half to up 1ts ra:urd to 9-1 this year. 
by characteristically on­

target Tom Clements, the Irish 
dominated both the play and the 
scoreboard amassing 537 yards 
total offense and limiti11g the 
cadets from Colorado to all of 117 
yards for the day. 
On yet another rainy day in South Bend and before the patented 59,075 capacity, Notre Dame dealt Air Force its first shutout in 73 games. The Irish offense sparked by fullback Tom Parise's 62-yard first quarter run dismantled the Falcon defens~ with a bevy of backs penetrating the crumbling Air Force line. 
The Notre Dame defense con­tinu~d to show its nationally leadmg style as it held Air Force to two (count 'em, two) yards net rushing while dumping the Falcons for !Ill yards in losses. Greg Collins, Drew Mahalic Steve Niehaus, and the everpre;ent Jim Stock became particularly well acquainted with a number of cadets. 
afternoon, Air Force gave the lrisl~ an early scare by driving to Notre Dame's four yard line with the opening kickoff. Quarterback Mike Worden burnt the Irish secondary on a 17 yard pass to end Bob Farr and raced 43 yards on a roll-out to setup an expected score. Strong safety John Dubenetzsky shattered the Falcons hopes, however, by picking off a Worden floater\ in the end zone and 
bringing it out to the one. 
Notre Dame then made good of Dubenetzsky's noble intention and drove 99 yards in 9 plays for the score. Fullback'1Parise, playing for the ailing Wayne Bullock supplied most tJ{ the heroics by busting, galloping, and the chugging up the middle, down the sidelines, and out of bounds at the Air Force 13 yard line for a 62 yard gain. After gains of 3 and 9 yards by halfbacks AI Samuel and Eric Penick, junior Russ Kornman put the Irish on the board by diving over from the one. 
After tightening their defense against the wide-open Falcon attack, Notre Dame increased its lead to 14-0 at the start of the second quarter. With the ball on the Air Force 43 following a 28 yard punt, Clements took little time to lead his team in for a score. Parise smashed for five yards, again for two yards, and Clements hit split end Pete Demmerle for seventeen more, to move the Irish inside the Falcon 20. 
Parise took up the cause again and crashed seven yards to the Air Force 11 as the quarter ended. The junior from Lpngmont, Colorado had no qualms about the other side of the field as· he burst over center for the final eleven yards and the touchdown to open the second period. Freshman placekicker Dave Reeve, as he did all af­



........ 

Tom.Ciem~nts jukes his ~ayinto'the endz~-ne on a 9-yard touchdown run in the second quart~r Saturday. Clements and Co. ran thro.ugh the Falcons for 537 yards total offense in the 38-0 shutout. 
ternoon, added the extra point. Dame to the Air Force 21. 
Freshman safety Ted Burgmeier Goodman and Samuel burst for setup the next Irish score with a 29 eight yards apiece before yard punt return to the Falcon 40. Clements suffered a slight cut near From t~ere, Notre Dame kept the his eye and left the game. ball_ str1ctl_y on the ground· with Senior backup Frank Allocco Panse takmg the first two carries then passed to Kornman for four for four and five yard gains. yeard and swept one yard around Samule followed with runs of right end for the fourth Irish touch­twelve and six yards, and Korn­down with fourteen seconds to man drove to a first down on the 9. play. Parise closed the half and Clements weaved the rest of the the game with a team leading 108 way into the end zone on a rollout yards in 10 carries. Clements to his left. retired for the day completing 9-18 
passes for 113 yards. The senior~ith 2:04 left in the half, the quarterback was more accurateInsh first team offense finished its than his statistics, however, asafternoon activity by driving for four of his passes were droppedyet another score. Clements and two Demmerle "catches"necessarily took to the air on the 65 were ruled incomplete.
yard march, completing four Parseghian substituted freelypasses consecutively. Passes of 14 the second half with 70 players and yards to tight end Ken MacAfee, 17 aU the healthy seniors seeing

yards to halfback Ron Goodman and one yard and 12 yard recep: action in the game. The first team 
defense played the entire thirdtions by Demmerle moved Notre 
••• and next, Southern Cal 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

The T.rojans have won their trip to the Rose Bowl, and the Irish have won ~eirs to the Orang~ Bowl. But if anybody thinks that either game is more Important than this weekend's contest in Southern California's LA Coliseum, they're sadly mistaken. · · 
This Saturday's Notre Dame-USC clash the 46th between the two teams,. is cr~tical. for both clubs. For the l~ser, any hopes of a national champiOnship w11l be buried under the battered turf of L.A.'s most specta_cular sports arena. For the winner, the possibilities are countless. The Irish at least want a chance to try and count them. 
Tradition dictates that, for both teams, the game will be the most hard­fought of the season. The Irish hold a 26-15-4 edge in the series which dates back to 1926 including, of course, last year's 23-14 win in Notre Dame Stadium. But on the coast Notre Dame has not beaten Southern Cali!ornia since 1966 whep a Terry Hanratty-led club annhihilated the Trojans 51-0. . 
. Since that time, neither Hanratty nor Joe Theismann could manage a victory, and even Tom Clements is 1-1. On November 30, Clements wants a chance to break the .500 mark. 
The challenge is similar to last season's. "They're almost the same as la~t year," said head coach,Ara Parseghian. "They're a big strong qu1ck football teaml8nd they're playing much better now than they wer~ earlier in the season." 
The reason for the similarities is that most of the personnel have remained the same. 
Returning for the Trojans this year have been 14 starters, seven on offen!'le and seven on defense, and 35 lettermen. Added have been ten junior college transfers and 19 freshmen. 
"We have as balanced an attack as there is in football," said Trojan head ~ John McK~y. "In. our skilled positions the quarterbacking, the recetvmg, the runnmg posttions, nobody in college football is better than we are, in my opinion." . 
USC di~, however, lose four All-Americans~ Gone from last year's 9-2­1 squad 1s flanker Lynn Swann;,safety Artimus Parker, and offensive tackles Booker Brown and Steve Riley. 
McKay, not known for his overly pessimistic outlooks however didn't lose any sleep over his graduation losses. "We have Pat Haden the best quarterback I've ever coached, and the best passer I've ever ~een. We
.. 
have great runners in tailbacks Anthony Davis and Allen Carter. And we h~ve three ve.ry fine receivers in my son, Johnny, at split end, tight end J1m Obradovtch and flanker Shelton Diggs." 
McKay's right about Davis. The senior tailback became the all-time leading rusher in Pacific Eight history, breaking 0. J. Simpson's record of 3,423 yards on his first carry Saturday in SC's 34-9 win over UCLA. He is the first ~unner in ~e league history to ,gain over a thousand yards three years m a row. His 195 yards helped dolhat Saturday. 
running well, catching well and blocking well. What else is there? Some 
people are.still waiting for him to score six touchdowns against Notre 
Dame agam. Well, some people are silly." 
"To stop them next week," said Parsegbian, "we're going to have to 
play a game much like a year ago. We're going to have to maintain 
possession of the ball. If Davis is on the bench he's not going to be able to 
hurt us. Essentially, though, we are going to have to play error-free 
football, play strong defense and utilize a strong kicking game. Those are 
the keys." 

The Trojans have just seemed to come into their own. In the last three 
ball games, against Stanford, Washington and UCLA they have won by a 
combined margin of 110-30. ' 
"They haven't been killing people (SC lost to Arkansas 22-7 and tied 
California 15-15), but they've come on of late," expalined Irish backfield . coa<:h :rom Pagna. "They're the biggest team we've faced all year. 
Davis IS a th~eat to the defense and Haden is a great passer. They're 
extremely qmck and they're awesome. I think this will be the first time in 
a long time thatwe'll go into the game as an underdog." 
But not much of an underdog. The Irish continue to lead the nation in 
defense after allowing the Air Force a measly 117 yards, and the offense 
seemed to have gotten untracked. With the availability of Wayne 
Bullock, the offensive unit should be in good shpae. 
"I could have played against Air Force if they needed me " allowed 
~aY_ne_, "but I ~anted to get ready for Southern Cal. Somebody asked me 
If miSsmg the Air Force game hurt my chances of getting 1000 yards and 
a~.I ha_ve to say is hell no! I'm going to get all185 against Southern Cal." 
I thmk everybody's gomg to be ready for this one," said premiere split 
end Pete Dem.merle. The coaches won't have to worry about that. We 
have to have 1t now." 

Wi~ the exception of the usual bumps and bruises, the Irish should 
~orne mto the SC showdown at full strength, and offensively that'll be 
JUSt what they need. ' 
. The Trojal_l defense is again anchored by two-time Ail-American 
hnebacker Richard Wood and he is helped at the other backer spot by 
Danny Reece. Add linebacker Kevin Bruce and linemen Gary Jeter and 
Otha Bradley and the Irish will need all the strength they can muster. 
.. "We're very.strong in what I consider the skilled positions said McKay. 
Out strength IS our speed. We think we're extremely hard to run outside on." For Notre Da~e, offense and defense will be prime considerations, of co~rse, ~ut playmg away from home is definitely a factor. Playmg out there could be a problem," said Ara. "We're not used to the heat and it could make a difference." Pagna looked at it from a more emotional standpoint. "Whatever advantage we have playing here," he said, "they have playing there." 
_Everyone need~ an~ likes an advantage. The greatest advantage the Instcouldhave gomg mto the Orange Bowl on New Year's night would be a 10-1 record. 
quarter, but joined their offensive counterparts on the sidelines for the fourth quarter. 
With Allocco at the helm, Notre Dame closed its scoring in the third quarter. After stopping the Falcons on their first possession, the Irish took advantage of another weak Air Force punt, 23 yards, to set up a 33 yard field goal by Reeve and pad their margin to 31-0. 
A ridiculous lateral pass play from Allocco to Art Best faciliated Notre Dame's final score of the day. Allocco, apparently trapped in his backfield, drew the ball into his chest as the Falcons swarmed upon him. Wtih two defenders on his legs, he spotted Best in the flat and flipped the ball to the junior halfback before being brought to the ground. Best raced 29 yards with the unexpected football to the Air Force 30. 
After a five yard gain by fresh­man Terry Eurick, Allocco hit split end Kevin Doherty on a 25 yard strike for a touchdown and the final 33-Q advantage. Best, seeing his first action in two weeks, was particularly impressive the second half with 69 yards in eight at­tempts. 
Parseghian was pleased with all aspects of his teams ninth victory. "We didn't make the offensive mistakes which we have been making. We executed well on both offense· and defense and our kicking game was very good as well."' The head coach: cited ~e~ensive end Stock specifically, 
J1m Stock was fantastic. He has made a great many big plays for tiS over the past six weeks." 
The final home game of the seasn was also the final Notre Dame appearance for 26 senior players. Halfback Eric Penick described the feeling in the jubilant locker room, "We played real hard because we wanted all the seniors in their last home game to play. I hate to be sentimental, but four years is a long time and you get nostalgic. You think about your first game and the first time you ever went into a game and you kno\\ there's no way you can get it back." 
While nostalgic contemplation might have been in order after the victory, thoughts of the upcoming Southern California game were just as numerous. Allocco: "They're a super team and it'll take a super effort defensively." Clements: "We'll have no trouble getting ready for Southern Cal." 
Penick sensed a new un­selfishness on the team. "The unity is getting better and better each game. It's getting to be a different atmosphere. Everybody's playing for each other and we're winning. That's the feeling that propelled us to a natior.al championship last year." 
Whether this Saturday's sen­timents will be the same as next Saturday's sentiments will be up to next Saturday's score. 







