On The Inside 
La Fortune renovation ... page 3 Darby's Place 
... page 8 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 35 
Wednesday, October 16, 1974 

Option to faculty 

Collective bargaining still open 
by Theresa Stewart Staff Reporter 
"Collective bargaining is one of the many options open to the faculty," Prof. Edward Trubac, president of the local chapter of the American Ass?c~ati?n o~ Un~vers~ty Professors, said yesterday. "The real issue involves faculty .Participation m university governance," he emphasized. . . . . . . 
Responding to an article in the South Bend Tribune on collective bargammg, mterviewmg Prof. James Cushing, president of the Faculty Senate, Trubac reported that the local chapter of the AAUP will shortly have a newsletter out to the faculty "informing them of what has transpired at unionized colleges." Commenting on the national AAUP'~ i1_1terest in collective bargaining, Trubac stressed the local chapter's role as one of providmg more information about this option for faculty participation. 
Cushing, Assoc. Prof. of Physics, called collective bargaining j~st one of the J?OSSi~le means for the faculty to exert any influence on the decisions made m regard to Umversity priorities. "That doesn't mean it is necessarily right for Notre Dan:te," he added. 
Cushing stated the soon-to-be-released Faculty Senate Report will not urge any course of action but will provide information on the history of collective bargaining, the pros and cons ~nd summaries of recent contracts under theat bargaining. 
"Wnen we say collective bargaining, many people think of an industrial union. That doesn't have to be the model. The two sides discuss more than wages," Cushing observed. 
Trubac elaborated on the idea of collective bargaining. "It has nothing to do with salaries," he said, "but is more concerned with the role of the faculty member in university governance when under the labor contract." . . . . . . . 
Trubac asserted the faculty has three options m regard to participation m Umversity priorities: no input, limited input, as in the option Hesburgh suggested by adding faculty members to the Budget Review Committee, or finally, participation through the use of collective bargaining. . 
"I think most faculty 'would prefer the inside situation Hesburgh suggested in which they would share a part in the decision-making. 'Collective bargaining is one outsider against the other outsider," he reasoned. 
''We are striving for the option of effective participation and the AAUP intends to keep the faculty informed," Trubac said. "In the upcoming newsletter such things as the impact of collective bargaining on tenure, academics and governance in the schools under the labor contract will be discussed,.. he concluded. 


For only lasting improvements 

Hall Life Fund Allocations announced 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 
Hall Life Fund Allocations were announced at last night's Hall Presidents' Council Meeting by its chairman. Bob Howl. The hall improvement funds are now available from Student Government to be picked up at each hall's convenience, according to the HPC chairman. 
Howl reminded the hall presidents that in deter­mining fund requests, the HPC Budget Committee, which consisted of Howl, Executive Coordinator Tom Prorter and presidents Paul Brun and Rich Morton, considered only lasting improvements which would benefit the entire hall; no money was given for hall parties, dinners or picnics. The committee also recommended that some requests be directly handled bv the maintenance department, Howl noted. 


·"We held ourselves to strict, pre-set guidelines in evaluating fund requests," Howl stated. "Also when a committee member's hall request was being con­sidered, that person was not included in the deter­mination of his hall's allotment." 
"The committee tried to honor the requests of each hall, but with a limited amount of funds ($8500), complete fulfillment of each request was impossible," the HPC chairman explained. "Approximately 40 per cent of the requests were completely honored and the others came very close." 
Howl maintained that the committee tried to keep all allocations "reasonably consistent among all halls." The average amount of money that was divided among the 21 halls from the Hall Life Fund was $420. The final allotments granted by the Budget Committee ranged from Lyons Hall's allocation of $550 to $265 given to both Sorin and St. Joe Hall. Furniture and recreational equipment were the two items most reQuested. 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin addressed the HPC meeting concerning the voter registration drive last month and the upcoming local elections. With more than 2600 students registering to vote in Indiana, McLaughlin explained that the next step was to bring in the local candidates for state senatorial and congressional seats from this district. The Student Body President then announced that Student Govern­ment would be sponsoring the three local Republican candidates next Tuesday and their three Democratic opponents next Wednesday. 
"I hope that each hall sends a representative to these open forums, so that anyone who can't attend is able to find out what positions these men hold on issues like a lower drinking age, state educational benefits for college students and better police protection," McLaughlin told the HPC. 
McLaughlin also explained the compromise made on student basketball tickets last week. The option that was finally accepted increased the number of student seats to 5400, 400 more than last year. The original proposal, which reduced the number of student seats, could have been considered a precedent in the case of any further price hike. The accepted proposal is far less likely to provide that precedent, according to McLaughlin. 
The final results of the referendum survey were also a factor against a student boycott of tickets. McLaughlin felt that 85 per cent in favor of boycotting was needed to make its purpose effective. The tabulation showed that only 60 per cent favored boycott if prices were not reduced. 
In other business, Howl thanked all those involved in last weekend's United Way drive for "a truly great effort." 
"We are extremely pleased with the student response, both in working and in supporting the United Way drive this past Saturday," the ltPC chairman said. "The shamrock sales Saturday more than doubled last year's total sales drive. We ask the students' continued support of this worthwhile cause over the remaining two weekends of the drive," How. stated. 
The final business of the meeting was an an­nouncement by Howl that the free HALL-MARC system for protecting personal property will be un­derway this week in all the halls. Residents who wish to have their social security number engraved on personal items should check with their hall president for their HALL-MARC representative. 
HALL LIFE FUND ALOCATIONS 

alumni: $415 Howard: 445 
Badin: 425 Keenan: 415 
BP: 450 Lyons: 550 
Cavanaugh: 375 Morrissey: 435 
Dillon: 400 Pangborn: 340 
Farley: 450 St. Ed's: 42.') 
450 St. Joe's: 265 

Flanner: 400 Sorin: 26~ 
Grace: 350 Stanford: 375 
Holy Cross: 400 Walsh: 410 Zahm: 410 

(SCI)
warld briefs 
BOSTON WPI>-Gov. Francis W. Sargent announced Tuesday he has requested President Ford to send a contingent of specially trained federal troops into racially troubled Boston and that he further has ordered mobilization of the Massachusetts National Guard in connection with violence in integrating the city's public schools. 
BEI.FAST (UPI>-Prisoners rioted and set fire to their huts in the Maze formerly known as Long Kesh internment camp south of BE.'lfast Tuesday night in disorders in which at least four prison wardens WE're injured. 
The riots broke out after a day in which gunmen opened fire on Homan Catholic workmen in Belfast. A Protestant extremist group rlaimed responsibility. 
W ASIIINGTON <UPI> -The House failed Tuesday by 16 votes to override President Ford's veto of an immediate halt in arms shipemnts to Turkey, handing Ford an initial victory in his first major confrontation with Congress. 
WASIIINGTON (lfPI>-Nelson A. Rockefeller Tuesday asked two congressional committees to hold immediate hearings so he can 
explain  recent  disclosures  that  have  threatened  his  vice­ 
presidential nomination.  
The  request  followed  disclosure  that  Rockefeller's  brother  

Laurance financed a book derogatory to Nelson's 1970 opponent for governor, and that Nelson Rockefeller made nearly $2 million in cash gifts to aides and former aides. 
:-.; EW YORK ( UPI > -Pan American World Airlines said Tuesday it and Trans World Airlines are very close to announcing a route swap agreement that could save each carrier $20 million to $30 million a year. 

an campus taday 
!>am to 4 pm --booksale, great hall, o'shag hall. 
12:15 pm --seminar, "reticulum cell sarcoma of sjl-j ,oce-the closest to hodgkin's disease in man," dr. asher meshorer, visiting professor in microbiology; coffee and sandwiches in rm 109 at 11:45 am, rm 102rm 102,lobund lab, galvin life sciences center. 
2::10 pm --discussion, john conway, pres. of common cause, grace tower pit. 
:1::10 pm --lecture, "the role of values in national economic policy," by dr. eli ginzberg, prof. of economics, columbia u., memorial library aud. 
:l::\0 pm --st'minar, "education, research, and industrial activities in fluid dynamics in western europe, a personal view," dr. thomas mueller, rm. 303, engineering bldg. 
4: oo pm --lecture, "rome: a dynamic past living in the present," william c. westsall, u. of ill., architecture bldg. 
4::10 pm --colloquium, "atomic hyperfine interaction," dr. arne rosen, northwestern u., coffee at 4:15, rm. 118, nieuwland science hall. 
5:00 pm --Vt'Spt'rs, log chapel. 
6::10 pm --mt'eting, nd sailing club, rm 204 eng. bldg. 
6::10 pm --senior career planning session, Ist floor study Ioung mccandless. 
7:30 pm --lecture, "political element in organizational dec is' n­making," dr. eli ginzberg, rm 201 hayes-healy. 
7:30pm --lecture, "transactional analysis, and the gospel," james 
a. robinson, institute of michigan, carroll hall, madeleve J•lt'morial. 
X& 10 pm --rilm, "shoot the piano player," $1, eng. aud. 
•coo pm ·-meeting, middle east trip, rm. 233, madeleve ''" :n. 




THE WINERY 
2426 LINCOLNWAV WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE 2.59-9046 
All the Finest European Cheeses Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods Oriental Cooking Ingredients 10 a;o Cheese & Fancy Food 
Discount to Faculty & Students French Bread & Croissants New York Cheesecake Greek Olives 

Creative intelligence meeting tonight 
by Maryfran Hayes Staff Reporter 
A course in the Science of Creative Intelligence (SCI) will be discussed at a meeting tonight at 
7:30 at 266 E. Navarre Street in South Bend. Carol Dixon, who has taught the course locally for three years will supervise the session. 
SCI is the fundamental studey of the nature and growth in man and the universe as a whole. Students take the course in SCI in order to increase their understanding of Transcendental Meditation (TM> and to strengthen their intellect. The course consists of thirty 2-hour sessions, each with a color-video tape presentation by Mahrisha Mahesh Yogi, founder of SCI. 
"Two aspects of SCI are un­derstanding and experience which together are necessary to produce full knowledge and spontaneous full development of Creative In­telligence," explained the local president of the Student In­ternational Medition Society, Rob Carsello. 
Carsello elaborated that the development of Creative In­telligence is spontaneous; for a person who practices, TM results are automatic. Within a few days, weeks, or months the person notices: 1) thinking becomes clear, concentration is better 2) health improves, a person who meditates feels physically better, they are not as tired at the end of the day, 3) inner stabilityis gained, the way to world peace is through individual peace and TM helps in the development of this peace and 
4) as a result of the inner stability and flexibility gained, social behavior is naturally improved. 
"Students who have taken this course have said that it was the most fascinating course they have taken," commented Carsello. 
The course will be offered two or three times a week this semester. Corsello does not know if Notre Dame will accept the course for credit this semester, but next semseter Notre Dame is offering the SCI course for three credit hours. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame .,d St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer ~x' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Noire Dame, Ind. 46556. 
At BURGER CHEF '! ••give your sandwich the "works" at 
NO EXTRA CHARGE 
IJlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliDDII~ 
i TOM'S UNIVERSITY STANDARD i 
:_i 17993 STATE ROAD 23 272-0083 
I 
5_ CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT THE CORNER 
I 
OF IRON WOOD AND STATE ROAD 23 
::! ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART 5=:
~­
COMPLETE CAR CARE
-: 
§ i 
§ 10 PERCENT DISCOUNT TO N.D. & S.M.C. STUDENTS ~ 
iiillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltr
.............................................: : IVJICHIGAN STREET :i ADULT THEATRES i : X 2 F1LIVB : 
: X BOOKSI'CEE : : X LIVEFLCXESHOW ! : 1316 SOUI"H MICHIGAN STREET ! 
i.rt.f-.~.~!~:.1.~J!t.f9.11.l~.~P.KMAJJgtl~ 
Acareer in law­WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. . . 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Tra1nmg has placed more than 700 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 60 cities. . 
If you are a student of high academic standmg and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 

235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
Two locations .. 
1716 N. Ironwood 52920 U.S. 31 North (at Cleveland Rd.) 
F1x Your own burger the way ,.,... like it at 018' new Works a.. 
Help yourself to lettuce, tomatoes, onions, relish and pickles. Ifmustard and catsup are all you want, it's there for you too. Have as much or as little as you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar ... and build your burger just the way you want it. 

----------------------~--~~------­
Huddle No.1 



LaFortune renovation priorities discussed 
by Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter 
LaFortune renovation has completed one of its first priorities with the relocation and refur­nishing of the third and fourth floor offices, noted Rr. Dave Schlaver, Director of Student Activities. The direction of continuing renovation depends on the reaction of the Board of Trustees to a report from the Lafortune renovation com­mittee at the end of the week,· Schlaver noted. 
The report ot the trustees will ask that there be a slight change of priorities in the order of work to be done, Schlaver said. The com­mittee will recommend that some of the original $250,000 allotted for renovation be diverted to the basement of LaFortune and that the remodeling of the Huddle wait until a later date.. 
The original priorities in the plan were for remodeling the Huddle refurbishing of the LaFortune lobby, and the relocation of the student government and publication offices on the second floor of the building. There were no plans for work in the basement Rathskellar or the coffee house ar·ea. 
"The Huddle is still the first 

Spoke at Stepan 
priority," stated Ron Blitch, one of the N.D. student architects responsible for drawing up the new plans. "But the work there would have to wait until next summer and we want at least to be able to show that something is being done.there". 
The concern with renovation of the basement area arose with increasing use of the facilities this year, according to Student Affairs Vice-President Br. Just Paczesny. "Our original worry when students came up with the idea was that the place wouldn't be used," stated Paczesny, "but now with Darby's Place and the Nazz it is clear that students will use the palce." 
"There won't be anything major done there," noted Schlaver, "but we just want to beef it up." 
Blitch stated that a kitchen and coke bar are already present in the coffee house area and a type of food sales, with pizza and soft drinks, may be incorporated. 
Presently the work at LaFortune 
awaits the arrival of welded 
metal stair wells which will extend 
the present stariway up to the 
fourth floor. They are scheduled to 
arrive by the end of the week and it 
appears that the work will befin 
next week, observed Schlaver. 
Money for repairs to the roof and 
an increased power supply for the the building was also to come our of the $250,000. ''The roof work has already been done," stated Schlaver, "for a higher price ithan the estimate. The new trans­

former has been ordered but· hasn't arrived yet." 
Although the money is allocated, 
part of the slow down has been 
caused by a lack of creative input. 
"I kno\·: I don't have enough time 
to spend on it and neither does Fr. 
Wilson," Schlaver said. "Last year 
the stuaent group was more con­
cerned with other renovation and 
we just didn't get the input from 
them." 

The two student architects 
leading the renovation committee, 
Ron Blitch and Roxanne Jabbra, 
spent last year in Rome. Last 
week Blitch submitted the first 
sketches for a possible funiture 
arrangemnt of the first floor 
lounge. Since these are only the 
first alternatives for the 
refunishing , Schlaver cautioned 
that they must be studied carefully 
along with other possibliities. 
Presently the Huddle renovation 
is being delayed because there is 
no clear idea of the direction and 
extent of any remodelization. 
Original plans called for a phusical 
extension of the Huddle eating 
area, perhaps in a terrace over the 
pool room. However, a change like 
this, noted Sc.hlaver, entails 
revamping the entire Huddle 
operation. Paczesny noted, "When 
you start expanding the Huddle 
that means new dishwashers and 
stoves and the price goes up." 
The LaFortune renovation committee had planned to consult with experts from other eating establishments like MacDonal~s's and the Boar's Head to get opinions on the best utilization of funds for the Huddle work. As of yet nothing has been done intire that direction. 
Both Paczesny and Schlaver expressed the hope that the second floor lounge and the third floor ball room area refurnishing would be completed by the second semester and oossihlv over Christmas 
break. It is tentatively planned that the rooms will be repainted, the second floor furniture moved upstairs, and new furnishings obtained for the lounge. The painting has already been con­tracted out. The completed renovations and the inflation rate hamper further 
LaFortune renovation, Schlaver noted. The work done to date has exceeded previous estimates and the group is assuming that the lounge work and renovation of the Huddle would also be more. 
"Almost half of the original amount was to go for Huddle renovation," stated Schlaver. "Now that amount would probably not be enough for the work." 
The construction of a dark room was also to come from the quarter million dollar allotment, but the work at present awaits agreement among the student publications upon the feasible facilities required. The money for this work, added Schlaver, will probably come 'OUt of other operating w expenses. 
The major problem at present noted Schlaver is the lack of concrete plans and direction for the work and the wait for committee approval. Meanwhile, the prices have gone up with in­nation while the allotment remains the same. 


Rhodes calls report false 
by Greg Bangs Staff Reporter 
Charging that the Warren Commission Report on the assasination of President John F. Kennedy isinaccurate RustyRhodes asked a large crowd in Stepan Center last night to sign petitions for the release of that report by the National Archives. 
Rhodes is the Executive Director of the Committee to investigate Political Organizations. He travels throughout the country to acquaint students with political assasinations. The primary topic of his lectures is the 1963 assasination President Kennedy. 
Rhodes told the crowd of over 2000 people that the Warren report "had six sub-committees that 
dealt with a number of topics--­except the one that asked 'Who killed President Kennedy?' 
The Warren Commission 'determined' three facts, the first was the Lee Harvey Oswald was the assasin of John F. Kennedy. The second was that a total of three shots were fired at the President and the third stated that there was no conspiracy involved in the killing" explainec Rhodes. · 
Rhodes said he was "not con­
vinced of the validity of any of the 
conclusions." "When Earl Warren 
turned in the report to Lyndon 
Johnson, he said 'Perhaps we will 
never know the truth about the 
assasination.' Warren even ad­
vised the FBI to continue their 
investigations into the case. Earl 
Warren was not the only person 
unconvinced by the Warren 
report," Rhosdes said. 


OIL PAINTING CLASSES 
6 VVEEKS I $30 53 0 N .MICHIGAN CALL 2 8 7:-2 5 ..8 3. 
.... " ..............-~..-.
~ 
The Warren report said Oswald fired three shots from the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Observatory within the time of 5.6 seconds. "Members of the U. S. Olympic team could not duplicate this speed" Rhodes pointed out. 
"The  Warren  Commission  ad­ 
mitted  that  under  normal  cir­ 
cumstances,  these  times  are  

highly unlikely, but the com­mission said that this was not a normal circumstance: this man was firing at the President of the United States." 
Rhodes said there is reason to believe Oswald never fired the acknowledged "murder weapon." "Prints were never found on the gun that Oswald supposedly shot Kennedy with." 
Parafin tests on Oswald also turned out to be negative. Rhodes explained that parafin tests determine whether a person has fired a gun. "Since the parafin tests on Oswald were negative, this would be reason enough to throw the case against him out of court." he said. 
Rhodes made use of the Abraham Zepruder film tho show that Oswald's firing the fatal shot was "highly unlikely." "The Warren Commission contends Oswald fired the shot that killed Kennedy. If this is so, Kennedy's head would have had to jerk for­ward, for Oswald was shooting at Kennedy from behind. But the 

Zepruder  film  clearly  shows  
Kennedy's  head  being  jerked  
backwards  at  the  time  Oswald  

supposedly shot him. It is im­possible for Oswald to have fired the death blow." Rhodes ex­plained. 
This is Rhodes second visit at Notre Dame in as many semesters. 
The former investigator and Santa Monica College Professor attracted over 4000 neoole to his lectures last February. His lectures employ the use of diagrams, slides, recordings and movis. Included among the films is the previously mentioned Zepruder work. "That film is stillillegal," Rhodes informed his audience last night," but I'm using it as evidence, so we're all breaking the law together." 

52980 U.S.3i North 272-5220, presents 
frigbt8toa. overland Stage co. 
everything from down-home bluegrass to conte_mporary rock 
BEGINNING OCTOBERS-3 SHOWS 
NIGHTLY FROM 9:00-2:00 SUNDAY fROM .8:30-12:00 
-,: '-,;.. .,. ,_ ...._., ........ ,,. ... y ";I·' • '·• •" 
WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest La~e Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad ·Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum\$50 CALL C. STONE (219}636-7189  
FOOTBALL TIC<ET EXCl-iAOOE HELP A KID SEE A FOOTBALL GAME TURN IN YOUR TICKETS TUES VVED THURS (OCT 15, 16, 17) ATllCKET VVIN[)()\J\1, 2nd FLOOR ACC ANY QUESTIONS CALL 282-1784  


. 
AtSMC . . . . . . ... 
-;~-:·:::. ~: , ~ ~ v;%,1/:f:+.: :·.· -X:~;:~~fi"!ff-:.: ::~::::-.:: .. 
• Wltcrtev~r.Jhe Age, · Whatever the Length,


"Mittwoch" starts today 
. Whatey.,-tho Fa•hlon ~ • 
by Ted Guth dinner in the SMC dining hall,Staff Reporter 
where a German mela will be served while music is privideds by
Just another bleary South Bend the "Wienerschnitzel Six" a 
day in the middle of midterms? 
German polka band which most 
No -today is "Mittwoch", the recently played at the Oktoberfest 
first day of Oktoberfest '74, an celebration at the 100 Center. 
event which its organizers hope Following the dinner, there will 
will become an annual fall coun­be a bonfire in the field behind the 
terpart to An Tostal Weekend, McCandless Tennis Courts. 
The activities begin tonight at At 8:30. the activity will shift 

I havt• this course that l feel that I'm not able to handle now, is it possible for me to drop it or is it already too late? 
According to the regulations in the Academic Code a student may drop courses at his own discretion during the first seven class days of the semester. After this period the student must have the ap­proval of the dean. A course may be dropped up to one week after the distribution of mid-semester deficiency reports, but the dean's approval will not be granted if the student's course load falls below the full-time course load for a degree-seeking student. 
This year the deadline for dropping a course is Friday, October 
25. After a student can drop a course only in cases of serious physical or mental illness. 
What was the hassle with the busses for Homecoming? Even though everything turned out alright, there seemed like there was some sort of mix-up. Can you tell me what it was? 
The Homecoming bus committee were complete victims of cir­cumstance. They had problems ranging from no directions to missing keys to missing busses, however everything was straightened out some members of the Ombudsman Service from the fourth floor of Stanford and one Flannerite. 
Will the "Quickie" be running this Friday? 
The Notre Dame "Quickie" will be running this Friday. The first bus will be at the main circle at 8:00 and the last bus will return to the main circle at 2:00 am. 
I heard the Cultural Arts Commission is holding some sort of classical ballP.t. Can you tell me who will be performing and when it will bt> held? 
The Cultural Arts Commission is sponsoring a performance of the Cincinnati Ballet Company on Monday, October 21 at 8:00. It will be in O'Laughlin Auditorium and tickets will be $2.50 for students and $3.50 for adults. Tickets may be purchased at the Student llnion Ticket Office or the Box Office at SMC. They will perform fotlr dances, two modern and two classical including one from the Nutcracker Suite. 
:":OTE: The Ombudsman Service will answer any questions, solve any problem and trouble shoot weekdays from 9:36 to !l:OO and . , Pnings Mo1. lay through Thursday 10:00 to midnight. 
HAPPY HOUR! ! EVERY THURSDAY 4:00 . 6:00 EVERYTHING 2 FOR 1 

back to the dining hall, where Talisman will be freatured at a dance. For those of legal age, there will be a "beer garden" set up in the snack bar. After a $1.50 admission, the beer is free and Bratwurst will be sold to those struck by hunger pangs. 
Throughout both days of the Oktoberfest, Oktobergest T-Shirts will be availabele for $3.00. Further for the loverlorn girls on campus, a "Send a Pumkin to your 'Pumkin"' service has been set up. 
By calling Amy at 4148, or Betty at 4140, and paying 50 cents they can have a baby pumpkin delivered to someone today or tomorrow. 
Tomorrow, "Donnerstag", the activities continue. From 9 -5, LeMans Hall will be the site of an "Arts and Crafts Show" by stores an craftsmen from the area. 
From 2:30-4:30, on the field outside the SMC Dining Hall, a series of games beginning with the Water Ballooon toss, the Pumpkin Carving Contest, and the Jula Hoop, continuing with the Scare Crow, Corn-on-the-Cob, and Apple Dunking Contests, and ending with the Potato Sack Race, the Mar­shmallow String on Licorice, and the Yodeling Contest. 
Throughout· both afternoons, a "hayride" shuttle will be in service between Notre Dame and SMC. 
The Fest will be capped off be a concert by John Sebastian, to be held at Stepan Center at 8. Tickets cost $3and will be sold at the door. 
Margie Fuchs, SMC Sociao Commissioner, emphasized that Oktoberfest is not just for the students: "I hope that the faculty administration, and staff will feel free to join in the festivities. The purpose is to unite the community in activities where everyone can have a good time." 
TAl presents lecture today 
James A. Robinson, director of the Transactional Analysis In­stitute of Michiana, will present a 
lecture, "Transcational Analysis and the Gospel," at Saint Mary's College, today, at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall. 
Today's lecture, part of the continuing American Scene Cultural Series, is open to the public without charge . 
:· MtCHAEt:s,
····-~;.-·.,:;'.· ........~-.-·., ,,..;:~·::::· ::·: . .•. •, ,,: 
:·.wnl~ohi~·i:··'wr\rtr ..... :·.····· 
Hairstyle·~ Jvft_You 
J.l Foreign Car Parts Co. 
~)Parts & accessories for imported can .,.....,. for all makes at lowest prices.
Reaional Oistri butor 
*************************
t For N D Students, Faculty & Staff 10 t
* percent discount with I D & pur-* ~chase of $10 or more. 1 ************************~ 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland· So. Bend 

IN CONCERT 

MAC DAVIS 
Also ~aring: Nary Travers 
SAT. OCT. 19th 8:30 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME 
ATHLETIC AND

Ticket Prices CONVOCATION CENTER Bleachers ••••.• _ $4.00 Lower Arena ••• _• $5.50 
Tickets on sale: 
NOTRE DAME, A.C.C 
Mon.·Sat. 9 to 5 
Robertson's 
South Bend &Concord Mall 
St. Joseph Bank 
and branches 
First Bank 
-~-~-------------­
ERA dinner scheduled forOct. 21 
by Val Zurblis Invitations to the ERA forumStaff Reporter 
have gone out to all candidates for the state legislature in Elkhart and An Equal Rights Amendment St. Joseph counties. Invitationsfund-raising dinner and forum will have alsl been sent to key officersbe held October 21 at 6:30p.m. in of the coalition organizationsthe Center for Continuing throughout the state.

Education to help assure ratification of the amendment. The ERA is a proposed addition 
Mistress of ceremonies will be to the constitution which would Liz Carpenter, former press guarantee women due process secretary to Ladybird Johnson. under the law. It reads, "Equality Congressman John Brademas, of rights under the law shall not be former White House advisor Jill denied or abridged by the United Ruckleshaus, State Represen­Staes or by any state on account of tative Robert J. DuComb, Jr. and sex." Howard Glickstein, director of Notre Dame's Center for Civil The amendment has been rights will participate in the panel. ratified by 33 states, but it was 
The event is sponsored by defeated by the Indiana General members of the coalition including Assembly in 1973 and failed to the League of Women Voters, come to a vote in 1974. Endorsing Merican Association of University the slogan "Five in '75". the Women, Business and Professional coalition group is pledged to make Women, common Cause, AFL-CIO, Indiana one of the five states still National Organization for Women needed to ratify. The group and Altrusa. believes the issue will come up before the assembly in January or February in 1975. 
The group hopes to raise at leat $5,000 to pay for publicity, mailing, and lobbying efforts in the next session of the General Assembly. They also want to send two representatives to Washington 
D.C. to get federal support. A reception will also be held at 
3:30 October 21 in Stapleton Lounge. Student, faculty, staff and administration are invited to meet Ruckleshaus and Carp~nter. 
Sue Lipner of St. Mary's in­formation services is in charge of ticket distribution. The tickets for the forum are $12.50, $25,$50 and $100. She pointed out that student tickets are only $3.00 and are available at the door. 
Dr. Mary Martucci head of the nursing department at St. Mary's, said the purpose of the forum is to 
SMC HUlllan Relations Council to hold HalloW'een auction 
by Keran Hinks Staff Reporter 

The month of October usually marks the beginning of Autumn. Associated with this time of the year are such activities as apple picking, leaf raking, pumpkin carving and, of course, Halloween. 
In lieu of the usual trick-{)r­treating and prank-playing that are so often connected with the season, the SMC Human Relations Council will be sponsoring a United Way Fund Drive Auction and Halloween costume party on Tuesday, October 22, from 4:30 until 7:30p.m. in the SMC Dining Hall. 
Judy Mardoian, Student United Way chairman is very optimistic and feels that this year's auction and costume party will prove to be more exciting and successful than in the years before. 
Downtown merchants and SMC faculty are making donations towards the auction enabling students to get quality mer­chandise at a relatively low cost. Handmade articles and novelty items, are just a few of the items to be auctioned off. 
The auctioneer for the evening will be Dr. Mark Bambenek, SMC's number one faculty con­artist, and should prove to make the event just that much more 
interesting  and  humorous  for  
everyone involved.  
All  proceeds  made  from  the  

auction will go to the United Way, which supports all of the service organizations in the community. The auction's goal has been set at $1,000. 
SAGA will be serving a special dinner in honor of Halloween with treats for everyone participating. 
Along with the auction and dinner will be a costume party. Large groups are strongly en­couraged to participate in the costume contest. Cash prizes will be awarded to the most out-


The Notre Dame -St. M cry's Theater announces TRYOUTS 
for FELLOWS 
Adm. $1.00 
. •.I: .. I I .... 
standing groups. 

Notre Dame will be receiving co­ex tickets and are also urged to actively participate not only in the aucion, but in the costume party as well. Arrangements are being made at this time enabling ND men to take part without having meals and being charged. 
Student support is greatly needed for the Fund Drive and in return they will not only be helping a worthy organization but will also profit from their generosity. Now is the time to start saving those pennies, guaranteed to come in handy. 
inform laymen and politicians what the ERA really is. "ERA isn't having co-ed bathrooms and the like," commented Martucci. "Hopefully the forum will educate and explicate .items of the act." 
Martucci continued, "Indiana is not as informed as we would like. It has a tough legislature and it would be good if we can get one of two legislators to go for the amendment and stick with it." 
When asked on her feelings about ERA, Karen O'Neil, new director of Career Development at St. Mary's exclaimed, "It's like asking me if I believe in God." 
O'Neil explained that this forum 
NOW 

MOPPY 
AND 
is the big event in Indiana and hopefully it will raise enough money for lobbying efforts. 
"The forum is good because ERA is in trouble and we must make this known to people. In­diana is the only northern state that hasn't ratified yet and it is critical that it does," she noted. 
"We've got to get it passed," declared Lipner. "It will not only benefit women but men also." Lipner cited cases of alimony payments and child custody s as examples where women get preferential treatment. 
Lipner added, "We've come a long way, baby, butwe'vegot along way to go." 


SOUTH SHORE 
on U.S. 31 llttwten Illes, So. l•d.frte Pninc-813-t351' 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 
Single occupancy $8~!ble occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-7555 

3 miles North of the Tollroad Cable T.V., Air Cond.1 Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
----------------~--~-------­
6 the observer Wednesday, October 16, 1974 

You'll be walking straight toward intended to be a Dear Abby column an attractive member of the op­for forlorn lovers. posite sex, your eyes will meet for You girls have a chance, this 5 or 10 seconds(and to quote a week, to see what it 's like to be on female friend-"lt can be very the active end of the relationship. sexy") but you won't say hello. The Sadie Hawkins dance Friday This also happens with people night should pack Stepan Center we've met at parties or in the with couples who want it's like to library or anywhere. We know do the asking (someone you're not each other by sight but pride keeps sure will go.p Then you can better us from recognition. <I won't say understand us. hello until she says hello to me.) Because we couldn't be specific You could have danced with a girl and had to exclude a number of the night before but not said a word variables, people may find ways to to her for the next 3 days. Then you reason that this letter doesn't have to hope you meet her again. apply to them, person ally. But it And you do. I've met girls 4 or 5 does. It applies to almost everyone times who still pretend not know in this community. Let's stop me well enough to say hello. As a playing games of pride. We've left result I end up playing the same high school, now let's forget it. Be 
nuendoes asserted against me, game. Pride. honest and friendly. It will sur­
Letter From been classified, generalized, de­Games People There are two major social prise, perhaps shock people, for a humanized, and robbed of the t'ne events around here. The first is the while. But once we get used to it, essential propriety every man and Play party. We recently had a party to we can really Jearn to love each
Exile woman desires, the right of being which we invited 40 girls. Sur­other· written byTom Youngtreated as an individual. Dear Editor prisingly enough we had 40 girls at 
attested by F-Troop

I realize my seditious , our party. Thirty of them we didn't 
Dear Father Hesburgh association with and refusal to I _ve ?een reading about the even know, letalone invite. We Paul Shay Rick Supik "narc" on known drug peddlers soc1a_l hf~ and th~ male-female were glad they came, but we had Jim Augustine Augie Grace 
I would like to congratulate you 

committed a serious grievance 1relatlo~sh1ps on this campus for legitimate excuses ready but what 
on being named to the Executive 

against the community of du lac ~pproximate~y 2~onths. I ve been 
usually happens is that the girlsClemency board, for this is the resulting in a reprisal, my hvmg the soc1a_l hfe a~dc the mal~­have held out for the best offer.
crux of the matter which has Dirty Little Jobs
suspension. At least though, I female relatwns.ships on this We'd like, for· once , to see a partymotivated me to write. 
refused to compromise my per-campus for approximately 2 rea.rs. 
run properly. You invite people toAfter a year and a quarter as a 
sonal morals for the appeasement Often, ho"Yever, I wonder 1f I ve a party for 8:30 Saturday night. All
Notre Dame student, I fell from Dear Sir:
of a few ever left high school. 
the people who said that they were
grace and was suspended. This It is wonderful news that the
Fr. He~burg, I never treated my The rules still app~y here. In going to come show up at 8:30
suspension was to last until the professors are getting some
fellow students with the lack of most cas~s, _you aren t allowed to Saturday night and stay until the
following fall semester, when after financial help to cope with the
respect and inconsideration which date. a g1r_l If you know someone
having completed the alternative party ends. We have so many inflated cost of Jiving. Now, how
1 have been recipient of from your "Yho IS datmg her or som~one who administration. I was accused of hkes her. Th~.t _sou_nds fair. ,'!'here begin a party until 10:00. 
service suggested by the Dean of social elites among us, nobody can about some help for the low-paid
Students, I was to be reinstated staff employees who keep the
being an accessorry to the fact, are plenty of ~Ish. m the _sea . All The second and probably
I Last May I received verbal University going with their ser­
just as ALL the administrators of rou have to do IS fmd a girl that a( greatest social event is dinner.
acknowledgement from the Dean vices in all the dull, dirty little jobs 
Notre Dame are accessories to the IS not kn~wn to . anybody you "Gee let's go to dinner at 5:15, that
asserting that, among other things, that are so necessary? They, too,
hypocritical and unjust treatment know, b.( IS ,not hked_ by anybody way we'll see them and them." We
I had satisfactorily completed my must try to cope with inflation!
1 have received. you kno_w. I_m sure g1rl~ have the never talk to them and them but we
alternative service and would 

I find this ironic considering you same Situatlo~ .. The~e IS an un­sit near them and stare and dream. 
indoed be re-admitted in the fall. I Sincerely,
have been chosen to administer spoken l~w. Similar m natur~ to If we don't know a girl's name it
was not. Under the deceitful guise AI Zonto
clemency to those of this nation S9uatter s nghts. !f youmentlona Most of you girls
doesn't matter.
of the C.L.A. Academic Com­

who like-wise stood up to their g1rl befor~ you fnend doe~, you have nicknames that fit either your 
mittee, the University Admissions 

conscience and refused to betray ha_ve the first chance: That s also anatomy <Legs) or your per­
Board refused my application for 

it. I know you will judge fairly, fair. _lln~ess your fnen~ gets ~he sonality <Bitch). Perhaps you've
re~ntrance. With a little help 

justly and without biased ideas. name m first and and he s the kmd bee misnomered, but if I said Susie Sing the Bluesfrom my friends in C.L.A., it was 
Yet Father, maybe if you could of guy <many of us are) who takes BT every guy campus would
on
ascertained that C.L.A. was not 

spend a little more time around at least a semester to get up the know who and what I was talking
responsible for the arbitrary 

campus, and become acquainted courag~ to ask her o_ut.. Then she about. But the point is for all the
decision, and further-more were Dear Father Hesburgh:
with what's happening in the t~rns h1_m down <. "Y'th some very effort and energy, it's all miss pent. In regards to your reputed ad­
not even consulted. Upon 

examination of my academic students heads •, you could spread mce smlle an~ legitimate excuse). Let's get to know each other. vice for off-campus students: they some of your wisdom around du Oh well, you ve only wasted one Nobody will make the first move stole our dog. Now what?
record, an assistant dean of C.L.A. 

lac. Then the cracks of sem~ster. . , unless it's to start a food riot.
confided in me that my record was Sincerely,

more than adequate for re­Christainity now appearing in the Th1s campus 1sn t extremely Let's forget our pride and be Golden Dome could be checked., large and we have a ch~nce to s_ee friends. It would be very easy
admission. 
Ed Merrion 

Until the acquisiton of this ex­before it splits and topples. a lot ?f the sam~ people m our daily and tempting to offer suggestions 
Ofr~('ampus

periential knowledge, I had been Father, it will take a longer ~outmes. But 1f w_e ve never been on "how to". But this letter is not sustained effort though, to rid mtroduced we don t dare say hello.
under the impression that the supposed Christian community of Notre Dame of the hiatus created ,----------------------------------------..... by some members of your ad­
N.D. patterned itself and it's ac­
ministration. It is wise to learntions after the ideology implicit in we
Roman Catholicism. I guess I cut from history, and must 
remember that Mr. Nixon fell prey
too many of my elementary 
to this same fault of putting tootheology classes for I had always much power in the hands of in­thought the central theme of this competent subordinates. I fint. itphilosophy was forgiveness. The difficult to conceive that the
incongruity of such a respected Christian image Notre DameUniversity as Notre Dame failing perpetrates to the public is in suchto practice what they preach 
contrast to the realities I ex­astounds me. Failure to do as one perienced.
says, or to act contrary to ones' Father, I have nothing but theexpressed beliefs, is the pernicious highest regard for the faculty andfoundation of hypocrisy. Not only students of N.D. It might be wise has the administration of N.D. 
though for your administrators to
failed to follow through on their 
refresher in
promise to me, but they have take a course 
Christian philosophy, or better yet, committed the despicable and just go rap with Fr. Griffin aboutaudacious act of reneging on their it's practical implementation. He<once> proud philosophy. 
is one I am sure could enlightenI dislike being treated as a your charlatans of Christianity to
cancerous growth, who unleashed the meaning of pardon, for pardonupon the tranquil campus of du lac is forgiveness of a past fault, which would spread pestilence and 
I thought Christ's~uxcifixion was
create c!-.<tos amongst the com­all about.
munity. I am not the heinous 
deviate, as members of the Yours in practicing aesthetic 
University Admissions Board Christainity in exile,Chas. 
DOONESBURY 




Night Editor -AI Rutherford Ass't Night Editor -Ginny Faust Layout -Marti, Karilee Clark Copy Reader -Ken Bradford Day Editor -George M. Velclch Editorials -Kenneth Paul Girouard Features -J. R. Baker SSports -Greg Corgan Typists -Don Roos, Camille Arrleh, lim Landis, Neil VIII, Karen Hinks Compugraphic Operator -M. J. Foley Picture Screener -Albert D'Antonio Night Controller -M. J. Foley 

Wednesday, October 16, 1974 the observer 
bi 1/ygoats with sex and football 
a review by marlene zloza 

ALPHABET JACKSON 
Jack Olsen 
$7.95 
Playboy Press 

The parellel between the alphabet used to construct words and Jack Olsen's novel Alphabet Jackson is very obvious. Both are simple and very superficial in meaning. In the alphabet <A,B,C... ), the letters them­selves are really meaningless until someone puts them together to make sense and communicate. Olsen had the related problem of taking the reality and lifestyle of professional football and making some sense of it. He should be commended for even attempting such an enormous task. Unfortunately, he didn't succeed. 
The words and experiences he has put together make sense only on the surface. They provide easy reading, a little drama, some small degree of humor, and plenty of low-grade pornography. But Alphabet . Jackson has no real meaning or worth. The book is an insult to those people involved in professional sports who are decent human beings and take pride in their work. 
Everyone and everything in the book is an exaggerated stereotype. The coach is a Vince Lombardi-General Patton hybrid, the team doctor is an incompetent hatchet man, the defensive linemen are sex-crazed Neanderthal beasts, and the team owner is a wealthy simpleton mocked mercilessly by the players. For a little variety, the key running back is a clever and super­intelligent Chinese-American, the star rookie is an egotistical loudmouth, and the placekicker is an insecure British soccer kicker treated by teammates like a mascot. Not a hint of originality in the entire line-up. Actually, Olsen throws in a few clever gimmicks to spice up the book, but they fall way short. The basic theme and main plot are too weak and trite to save the novel from mediocrity. 
The idea of following the progress of a Cinderella team through a championship season has been inked to death. Throw in the usual degree of locker room fights, rookie initiations, wild parties, and on-the­field heroics and the result is a classic study in cliches. To his credit, Olsen does try to explore the problems of the aging player, the reasons for football's popularity with players and fans, and the pressures of the work. His discoveries, however, are as trite and superficial as most halftime pep talks. 
Olsen's subplot, in which the Billygoats 


The Billy Goats\ 
are 1 


~ Coming 


t-=::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~ 
are skyjacked on their way to the Super 
Bowl by a member of their own team, is as 
unrealistic as his characterizations. The 
language is stilted and the emotions seem 
forced and aritficial. 

Even as told by the Billygoats' veteran 
center Alphabet Jackson, the entire story 
never reaches authenticity. One of the most 
outrageous scenes is the high society party 
thrown by Arthur Clamage III and his wife 
for the team. Included is plenty of cocaine 
sniffing, a streaking contest, a police bust, 
and several other sordid contests. In the 
end, the reckless and wild-living players are 
shocked by the antics of the society crowd . 
The result of all these shocking incidents 
reads like the Hollywood script for a cheap 
thriller, with most of the language and 
action begging for generous editing. 
One of the most peculiar gimmicks Olsen has employed in his book is the cameo reference. Perhaps the author has merely let his fantasies come true in this futuristic story. Ralph Nader is the President of the 
U. S., Bill Russell is the NBA President, Howard Cosell is a Senator from the state of New York, and John Mackey and Joe Kapp are head coaches. As an added twist, Kapp has stocked his team with fellow Chicanos and taught them how to act tough and fight dirty. The most engaging reference, however, concerns Joe Namath. It seems Broadway Joe has given up football to marry a June Taylor dancer and join the entertainment business with her dance troupe. It's too bad the author didn't use this cast of characters for his main plot. 
As for Olsen's writing style, it follows the rest of the story in simplicity. Sentences begin with expletives and end with ex­clamation or question marks. The language is a parody on hard-core obscenity and the narrative is blunt and terse. No com­plicated descriptions or fanciful verse to cloud the point. Olsen sticks to the classic sportswriting style-punch out the facts and stats, stay away from the motives and the analysis. Settings are unimportant. After all, everyone knows what a locker room, a bedroom, and an airplane interior look like. Olsen is at his best describing what happens during the skyjack, when direct and sim­plistic prose adds to the drama and intensity of the situation. 
The aftermath of the super skyjack is, however, pure schmaltz. The hero and narrator Alphabet Jackson welcomes his teammates into his hospital room to praise and thank him. In the final scene, Jackson is convinced that the team needs a morale boost for the big game. And so, painfully and slowly, he hobbles out to midfield during the pre-game introductions. What a tearjerker! Maybe Burt Reynolds would like the lead. 

october wandering at the dunes 
It is one of those peculiar autumn af­ternoons in Indiana, full of sunshine and crisp October air, telling you there is no way you are going to make that one o'clock, or two o'clock, or three o'clock class. And it continues to tell you that there is inore to do than throw a football around the quad till dinnertime. For these Indiana days are tailor-made for one occupation: wandering. 
And just one hour from Notre Dame is a perfect place to do such wandering: the Dunes. Nto the Michigan Dunes for a beer party. The Indiana Dunes, that collection of sand hills, permanent dunes, and forests at various stages of their evolution, all part of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. 
Getting there is half the experience this time of year, for October in Indiana means color splashed all over the roadsides and fields. Natural colors: the red-orange of a maple tree half consumed by autumn, the sunburnt tans and browns of farmers' fields trimmed amid occasional stretches of bleached corn rows or leftover acres of red clover. Going west on Route 20 until Chesterton, and then north on Route 49 provides a perfect introduction to the In­diana countryside, and to the dunes. 
Route 49 leads directly to the entrance of 

the National Lakeshore's. core: the 2,182 
acres of the Indiana Dunes State Park. 
Admission is $1.25 per car load, and it is 
here that one can pick up a map detailing 
the seven trails laid out in the park. Each 
trail, all of varying lengths, gives a slightly 
different view of what the State Park has to 
offer. 
Trail one, an easy walk of only Vs miles 

involving the lookout tower, is designed to 
give the visitor in a hurry an overall view of 
dune formation. Trail two, another easy 
hike of three miles, provides an excellent 
level walk through all the basic types of 
dune landscape including the "the climax 
forest", so called for it is in the last stage of 
a forest's evolution. This particular one 
consists of a large beech-and maple­
covered dune which has been forming for 
over ten thousand years. Trail two is also 
the only path through the dunes marsh, the 
low lying wetlands area fromed by water 
trapped between dune ridges. On this trail 
one can get the feel of early French ex­
plorers traversing narrow Indian paths, sip 
sand-filtered water from a sun-speckled 
creek, and then tread around the bog land reminiscent on a tiny scale of a Louisianan Lake Pontchartrain. Accordingly, trail two is open only during dry weather such as 
now. 
Trails four and seven,'% and 11-10miles respectively, are both paths of moderate exhertion. They lead through the black oak section, and involve scaling some small hills. They are good trails for the sensation of running downhill in sand, which soon takes on the feeling of floating down, without any of the risks the larger dunes 
provide. 
Two other moderate trails of longer length--number nine, 3 % miles, and number ten, the longest park trail at 5 lf2 miles--provide the best views of the dune phenomenon known as a "blowout". This is an excavation made into a dune by the wind when the layer of vegetation which holds the sand together is broken through. An almost amphitheater-type effect is created in the larger blowouts. Trail nine, leading to the Furnessville Blowout, provides a good view of Lake Michigan from the inland sand ridges, while trail ten, cutting through 

white pine forests and the Tree Graveyard in the Big Blowout, returns the hiker to his starting point by way of a walk along the Lake Michigan beach. 
The ultimate dunes trail, however, is number eight, 1 I/2 rugged miles over the State Park's three largest sand dunes: Mt. Jackson at 176 feet, Mt. Holden at 184 feet, and Mt. Tom at 192 feet. The heights may sound like easy scaling, until one starts climbing up a sixty-degree hill made of solid sand with nothing to hold onto, until one gets halfway up only to slide all the way back 
~----------------------------, 





OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
The Features Page of the Observer serves as a vehicle for conveying news of en­tertainment and cultural importance to members of Notre Dame. Contributions include reviews of books, concerts, r~ords, theatrics, as ·well as creative writings and occasional columns. 
Most features are solicited however, all contributions are welcomed. For further information contact J. R. Baker at the Observer office, 1715. 
by patricia ahasic 
down to the bottom--not once, but several 
times. Yet the effort is worth it, for once one 
gains the top, one is rewarded not only with 
a view of the entire dunes area, but the 
magnificent sight of what the Ojibwa In­
dians called the "great water": the sight of 
Lake Michigan stretching out miles before 
oneself. 
From trail eight, one can then move down 
to explore the beach and lake at closer 
range. October is a good month to do this for 
besides the excellent hiking weather and fall 
colors it provides, this month has an equally 
impressive effect on the lake, with its wintry 
blasts churning up the water, sending five 
foot or higher waves to bear down on the 
shore. It is here, more than any other single 
spot in the dunes, that one can spend a whole 
day exploring. There is faraway Michigan 
driftwood to be thrown back into the lake, 
tens of water-smoothed pebbles to be turned 
over and wondered at, tiny holes drilled into 
the unsolid sand floor by mysterious beach 
insects to be investigated. And miles of 
quiet, clear beach to walk out. It is that 
solitude-ridden place one sometimes needs 
away from the pressure of people and books. 
Or it can be that perfect setting for frisbee 
throwing and wave-dodging with friends or 
friend. 
Besides exploring the landscape as a 
whole, there are several other more detailed 
investigations one can make along the 
trails--concerning the vegetation, birds, and 
animals. For the range of life at the dunes is 
immense--from the prickly pear cactus to 
the Arctic bearberry, from gulls and terns 
to pheasants and quail, from the red 
squirrel to the white tailed deer. All that is 
required is a sensitive eye and ear, and 
some time. More detailed information 
concerning the dunes environment can be 
obtained from the Lakeshore Visitor Center 
(turn north on Rt. 49 toRt. 12, continue east 
on Rt. 12 3 miles to the Center), or by con­
sulting a guide book such as Doing the 
Dunes by Jean Komaiko and Norma 
Schaeffer, a $2.50 Dunes Enterprises 
paperback available at the Notre Dame 
Bookstore. 
So the State Park of the Indiana Dunes 
National Lakeshore holds endless at­
tractions to fill many afternoons of ex­
ploration, and October is a great month to 
take advantage of it all. It is only an hour 
away. So how about skipping that ac­
counting class this afternoon? 

--------------~----------­
8 the observer Wednesday, October 16, 1974 
************************************ 
Office of Volunteer Services ~ . u N 1oN B o A R o PO p : 

Four programs instititutedi ~
coNCERTs PRESENTs 
South Bend. This way people in the Thirdly, Volunteer Services, in by Hill Gozt>nbach hall will meet and work together conjunction with CILA, the 

t TRAFFIC !
Staff Rt>porter while providing a valuable service Program of Non-Violence and to the community," said the Campus Ministry, is developing a ~ * The Director of Volunteer Director. program to develop a con­~ * 
~ * 
Services, Fr. Tom Stella, outlined Stella cited the example of sciousness at Notre Dame al:5out 
four programs which the Office of Parish Partners to explain the the world hunger problem. : with STEVIE WINV\000 : 
Volunteer Services will institute program: "A group of students Finally, Volunteer Services and ~ * 
this year. from a hall adopt a parish. They CILA are developing a program ~ * l<'irst, the Hall Community do a variety of things with the for students to work in inner-<!ity : SPECIAL GUESTS: : Helations Directors of Volunteer parish such as teach C.C.D. and areas over semester break. 
~ * 
Services are establishing a work in social activities." "Our purpose is to help the Notre : FAIRPORT CONVENTION: 
program for halls to work with Secondly, Volunteer Services is Dame community have a positive 
volunteer agencies in South Bend. developing a leadership workshop impact on the South Bend com­~ * "The students of a hall will all program to train the directors of munity," said Stella. The Director ~ * work together with one agencv in volunteer groups on campus. added that he hoped to accomplish £ FRIDAY OCTOBER 18 i 
this by using Notre Dame's main 
resource, people.

Darby's Place gives ~ * 
"We want to get graduate 
students, the Ladies of Notre t 8:30 p.m. : 
Dame, and the law school students'
night oW'ls a roost wives involved in our programs. ~ * 
This is a community operation," ~ * 
by Shawn Scannell Stella said. : INDIANAUNIVERSITY :
tile weeK ana relations are very
Staff Rt>porter good. Stella added that the office of The future of "Darby's Place" Volunteer Services has a resource ! ASSEN\BLY HALL i Darby's Place, the night haven looks bright. Student response was center of periodicals, national 
for students of Notre Dame and St. great in the first week and is ex­volunteer group publications and 
! BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA i
Mary's "Was a great Success" information on ACTION for the use
pected to continue. Fr. Griffin according to co-propieter Fr. suggested the possibility that after of all students. 
~ * 
Hobert Griffin. The late-night the October break Darby's could The Office of Volunteer Services 
~ TICKETS: $6.50 $5.50 $4.00 :
coffee house located in the was developed three years ago by
be open on Sunday nights as well. 
LaFortune basement meets the Fr. Donald McNeill, professor of 
~ ~ good tickets on sale at the door night of concert * 
need of night persons for a place to Fr. Griffin commented that theology, who felt a need for the congregate, Griffin said. Darby O'Gill liked the response to coordination of all volunteer ac­~ * 
~ * 
"Darby's Place" is open from 12 the debut of the night spot but tivities on campus. The office is 
~ * 
a.m. until 4:30 a.m. for the "night wanted to return to Keenan Hall to located on the main floor of : A BAMBOO PRODUCTION : 
people" to have a place to come sleep as the night went on. LaFortune. and talk and have coffee and 
include wide 
·------··...··---···-···---·-·--············································-····················--··-···-· 
donuts. These a ···································*.....···-······-···-·­
range of students who, for various reasons, are up at these hours and need a place to go. The idea, originally Fr. Griffin's, was solidified through the help and effort of the Ombudsman organization. Director Bill 

It Sounds 
McClean was instrumental in the 
realization of the idea. 

According to McClean, "Darby's Place" has a sound financial base after its first week. An initial 
Incredibleoutput of $145.50 went toward the advertising and refreshments offered. With the donations through the week a profit of $16.00 
BUT EVELYN WOOD GRADUATES CAN READ
was realized, which will be put toward future services, such as a hot plate for offering hot dogs. McClean said the Ombudsmen saw 
THE EXORCIST IN 58 MINUTES 
a need to be satisfied there and helped with manpower and financial assistence to Fr. Griffin to get things going, and the 
At That Speed, The 403 Pages Come Across 
operation is in no way geared for 
With More Impact Than The Movie. 
profit to anyone but the students to participate in the service offered. 
McClean manned the operation both as a favor to Fr. Griffin, who has long been a close friend and as 
You can do it, too. So far over 550,000 other people have done it. People who thing-the place to learn more about it is at a free speed reading lesson.
a response to what he also felt was 
have different jobs, different lOs, different interests, different educations have This is the same course President Kennedy had his Joint Chiefs of Staff take.
an excellent idea. 

completed the course. Our graduates are people from all walks of life. These The staff of President Nixon completed this course in June 1970. The same one
The student response in the first 
people have all taken a course developed by Evelyn Wood, a prominent Senators and Congressmen have taken.
educator. Practically all of them at least tripled their reading speed with equal or
week was very good. It was 
better comprehension. Most have increased it even more. Come to a Mini-Lesson and find out. It is free to you and you will leave with a 
Think for a moment what that means. All of them-even the slowest-now read better understanding of why it works. One thing that might bother you about 
estimated that between 175 and 200 
students dropped by each evening, 
an average novel in less than two hours. They read an entire issue of Time or your reading speed is that someone might find out how slow it is. The 
as many as 100 people at a time. Of 
Newsweek in 35 minutes. They don't skip or skim. They read every word. They instructors at the Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Free Speed Reading lessonthe 800 or so visitors, McClean use no machines. Instead, they let the material they're reading determine how will let you keep your secret. It's true we practice the first step to improvedestimated that there were 600 to fast they read. And mark this well: they actually understand more, remember reading at a Mini-Lesson and we will increase your reading speed on the spot, but 700 different people there through more, and enjoy more than when they read slowly. That's rightl They the results will remain your secret. Plan to attend a free Mini-Lesson and learn 
understand more. They remember more. They enjoy more. You can do the same that it is possible to read 3·4·5 times faster, with comparable comprei'lension.
the week and 50 or so were "regulars." The visitors came for many 
-------SCHEDULE OF FREE MINI-LESSONS---------.
reasons. Some liked a place to end a night walk, other couples wanted a place to go and talk at that hour, some taking a break from all­nighters, and others just to avoid the "wrath of their rectors" as Fr. Griffin put it. The students sat in groups around the room in the friendly atmosphere of con­versation. Fr. Griffin said that most with whom he spoke voiced approval and said they'd return again. 
McLean mentioned that the rapport with security and main­tenance was excellent. "Sgt. Krill did a fine job in watching the place and seein that things were locked at the evening's end," McClean said. The student managers also were helpful and there were no problems with maintenance. All in all, McClean felt there was no friction with the workers during 
You'll increase your reading speed 50 to 100% on the spot! 
FREE READING DYNAI'AICS lESSOf\5 TOOAY & TOVORRON at 4:00 pm and 8:00 pm 
at THE CENTER FCR CONTINUING EDUCATION on The Notre Darre Campus 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
-··-•••-•••••-•-••••••-••---••••••••-••••--••-•••--••-•••-•••---·•-••••·-------·---••••••-•••••-•••-•••-·--•••••--·----••••••••••••••••••ua•••••••­
' I , ' • ~ • • , ~ .' • 4 ; • '),) , J ' . I I 
THINK ... CO.LEGE LIFE
Haggar Hall to bededicated 
, INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA 

Newly renovated Haggar Hall will be dedicated in ceremonies at the University of Notre Dame Saturday, Oct. 19. Renovation of the building for the Department of Psychology was made possible through a gift of $750,000 from the Haggar Foundation of Dallas, Texas, in honor of J. M. Haggar Sr., founder and honorary chairman of the board of the Haggar Company, the world's largest manufacturer of men's dress slacks. 
Ceremonies will include a 9 a.m. dedication Mass celebrated by Fr. Hesburgh, followed by the blessing and tours of the building and a private President's luncheon in the· Center for Continuing Education. The Haggar family will also be honored at the Board of Trustees dinner Friday. 
The gift was presented to the University in 1972 by Haggar's two sons, Edmond H. Haggar, chairman of the board of the family firm, and Joseph M. Haggar. Jr., president, and his daughter, Rosemary Haggar Vaughan. 
Through the Haggars' generosity, the former Wenninger­Kirsch Biology Building has been transformed into a modern facility for research and instruction in psychology. The building houses seven classrooms ranging from a 150-seat auditorium to a 20-seat seminar room. Faculty offices are clustered around the psychology reading room and student lounge, facilitating informal faculty­student contact. 
Among the renovated building's special features are several research rooms with one-way mirrors for observation; seven research suites consisting of a control room with adjacent subject rooms, a soundproof chamber and lightproof room; a special room housing the department's com­puter; and a "germ-barrier" animal colony. These facilities enable the department to study a wide range of topics with infants, children, college student, and the aged. 
Woodworking and metal shops are located in the building's basement for fabricating equip­ment used in experiments. Also housed in the building is an elec­tronics workshop for repair and maintenance of electronic equipment used in the department. 
The Psychology department, directed by Dr. John G. Borkowski, has been one of the fastest growing areas of in­struction on campus since it was founded in 1965. There are 14 faculty members, more than 100 undergraduate majors, and 46 graduate students in the depart­ment, which offers some 50 courses and seminars enrolling about 2,600 students. 
Close undergraduate student involvement with faculty in research has become a hallmark of Notre Dame's psychology department and has earned ·it a 
Speaks to Future Farmers 
Ford addresses nation 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. <UPI> -most intensive political effort 
Citing the reputation of Ameri­since he assumed office. 
cans as "the world's worst In a patriotic, homey speech 
wasters," President Ford Tues­sprinkled the names of citizens 
day night laid down a list of and prepared for a convention 
one dozen inflation-fighting of the Future Farmers of 
suggestions for everyone -America, Ford read 12 recom­
including planting home vegeta­mendations for fighting the 
ble gardens and cutting down high cost of living and 
on the use of credit cards. conserving energy -all but two 
Ford issued the call at the of them compiled by his 
start of a four-state campaign Citizens Action Comittee to 
swing through the Midwest, his Fight Inflation. The panel is 
SMC campus burglaries decreased over last year 

by Cathy Busto Starr Ht-por·trr 

Anthony Kovatch, SMC security director, disclosed yesterday that the number of burglaries on the St. Mary's campus has decreased from last year. 
Kovatch warned. however, that burglaries usually increase just prior to semester breaks. "Most of the burglaries occur because girls leave their rooms open," he ex­plained. 
Grace Burke, director of Hegina Hall, also does not see an increase in burglaries this year. "We have had some burglaries, but not out of proportion to what we have had in previous years," she said. 
Brenda Lardy, director of LeMans, said that her hall has had four to five burglaries per month this year. She feels, however, that the situation can be controlled. 
"It's just a matter of the girls keeping their doors locked," Lardy said. "Girls should also not feel had about stopping people who do not belong on on the floor," she continued. 
"Burglaries can happen at any time," Kovatch said. He has advised residents not to leave their rooms unlocked "even for a minute" and to call security if they see any strangers on their floor. 
Elizabeth Dose, director of McCandless, concurred that residents have to keep their doors locked to prevent theft. 
Mary Fran Burt, director of Holy Cross, shared the assessment of the other hall diredtors that the burglary situation has not been any worse this year than it has been in previous years. 
headed by financial columnist 
Sylvia Porter and includes 
Halph Nader among its mem­
bers. 

The television networks, which originally decided the speech was "not newsworthy enough to broadcast, later consented to air it live after Ford submitted a formal request. Ford said he wanted to talk "directly to the American people." 
Shortly before Ford left Washington, Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield replied to the President's program in a gloomy television speech saying that the government seems to "lack the capacity" to meet the economic emergency. 
In addition to his 12 recommendations, Ford re­vealed that the Treasury Department has been asked about the possibility of issuing WIN bonds, a new sort of government savings bond, whose interest rate might rise and fall with changes in the rate of inflation. 
The two suggestions which Ford himself added to those from his citizens' committee were to "guard your health" and "waste less in every way." 
"Unfortunately," he said, "Americans have an interna­tional reputation as the world's worst wasters. "We waste food, gasoline, paper, electricity, natural resources -in fact we waste almost everything. We litter our streets and country­side with waste." 
reputation as one of the finest undergraduate programs in the country. 
Haggar is a senior m~mber of Notre Dame's Advisory Council for the College of Business Ad­ministration; he joined the group in 1948. 
Both of the senior Haggar's sons and two grandsons are Notre Dame alumni. Edmond, '38, is now an active member of the Business Administration Advisory Council; his son, Edmond, received a degree in 1968. Joseph Jr. earned a Notre Dame degree in 1945, while his son, Joseph, was graduated in 1973. 
HARQ.D MEDOW USED CARS AND TRUCKS 
•
LaFayette 
at LaSalle 

Phone 233-2129 

PROF HOWARD GLICKSTEIN 
SPEAKING ON 
CHICANO CIVIL RIGHTS 
V\EDNESDAY OCTOBER 16 
7:30PM 
LIBRARY LOLHGE
,.·-···-·..--········-··-···-··----.......,_.____,
.....................-..-..· 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS WTHOUT WHEELS? When In Need Of A Quick Getaway, Call Lois At 
JORDAN FORD 259-1981 
STUDENT RATES: Rent A PINTO ·For Just 
$ 6/Day & 6 '/Mile (MIN. AGE 21) 
609 E. JeHerson, Mishawaka 

"mth reservations" PARTIM E JO 8 Responsible, reliable student
Ford signs reform biII 
to SUf-ervise Christmas reservations about the measure Amendment implications inher-d e c 0 r a t i 0 n i n s t a II a t i 0 n If
By DONALD LAMBRO but that "the times demand ent in the limits on individual W~SHINGTON (UPI). legislation." contributions and candidate in t e r e s t e d p I e a s e c a II 
Pres1dent Ford Tuesday s1gned expenditures." "with reservations" the most "There certain periods in our Ford did not spell out the 2 9 1 -7 3 0 0 b e t W e e n 8 : 3 0 far-reaching political campaign nation's history when it possible constitutional viola-reforms in the nation's history. becomes necessary to face up tions but apparently referred to & 5 : 3 0 p . m . 
The sweeping reforms, a to certain unpleasant truths," First Ammendment quarantees ...______.-,____________________. direct r~sult of the Watergate Ford said without mentioning of freedom of speech. "I am ~--QB-S----S--0-W~A-KJ_NG___l scandals. will go into effect in Watergate. "The unpleasant sure that such issues can be f THE ERVER I N l.M. f 1975 and are certain to truth is that big money resolved in the courts," he said. CA ONS Fr-n revolutionize political cam-influence has come to play an Despite his objections to the f APP L I Tl \..on f paigns for federal offices. unseeming role in our electoral public financing provisions, f process. This bill will help to Ford said he does support the t 
J<'ord, who invited all 535 ri1rits t~:;e;:~~i~·~·s centered on present $1 checkoff on federal f ADVERTlSI NG SALESA2 N f 
members of Congress to watch income taureturns which are IVw= 
the signing in the White House pubic financing of presidential divided now among major t East Room, said he had campaigns and political conven-party presidential candidates. t & SALES~N I
tions. He also cited "the First 
"I maintain my strong hopeLarge turnout that the voluntary contribution t will not become mandatory and f 





Homecoming success~~:i.~·1::;~.:··~:.:~~':';!.~: PAY 1s GJ A coMMISSIGJ BASis 1 
"By r~moving whatever in~u-I A CAR IS AN ABSOlUTE NECESSITY t 
Guiltinan concluded "Even ence b1g money an spec1al t 
by Doug Mt"yers 
though it's still early we are interests may have on our f 
Starr Ht"porter 
planning on doing something f~deral electoral processs, this APPLy AT THE OBSERVER OFFICES f 
similar for next year. Maybe we blll should stand as a landmark t
ThP Homecoming Party after Saturday's game against Rice will try to holdthe party at a o.f ~~m~aign reform legisla-OR CALL 7471 BET'NEEN 9 & 5 f 
location closer to campus." t10n, sa1d Ford. L:----------------~turnl•d out to be very successful, 
according to Rich Guiltinan, 
: r
···························································································-. -· . :
Sutdent Union Social Com­
missioner. ·"Everyone I talked to 
sePms to have had a good time. I 
: FIND YOUR WINGS~ --: 
haven't heard of any complaints," • • (;uiltinan said. • • Buses were used to transport • • students from campus to S. Joe, • • Michigan, the location of the party. • 
•
•
"The atmosphere created by • having the party bya lake helped to •
•
make it a real success," com­• mPnted Guiltinan. •
•
The party included a dance with • music supplied by two bands, •
•
Talisman and Wind. 

Another reason for the sucess •• was the large number of people • who attended. Guiltinan noted 1000 •
•
students bought tickets and at-• • tended the party. "I worked on ••last year's homecoming," added • <:uiltinan. "but this year was ••betll'r because the number of •
•
people attending was far greater 
•
than last year's." 
Chandelle presents the Competition. 
A new sail designed • for the flyer who wants the best of all worlds. Incredible lift • at floating-slow speeds or piercing penetration combined with 
Planning for homecomeng was 
responsive, carved turns ... this sail makes you look good.
done by John Huneke and the 
0 The Competition is also personally adjustable. You can set
1•ntire Student Union Social 
the bar forward or back, set the ­
Commission staff. The idea : 
dihedral, and set bar pressure
orignated with the commision in • 
in or out through reflex adjust­
April of the previous year. When : 
ment. And, the nylon bushed
school started in September, the • 
telescoping frame opens and 
Socail Commisssion started to look : 
closes at the flick of a wrist (no
for a location for the party and • tools) and the push of a pip pin. One flight is worth a thousand 
de~~ded upo.n the Michigan site. : words. Then you tell us. Chandelle also makes a standard
• 
-rogatio. The highest quality fittings and materials spell
Also workmg on the comm­
• an excellent value for flyers who.ot!I'Q this well-mannered sail . 
mision was Bill McLean and the • 
0 Give your life a lift. 0 Standard Klt/3.0 oz. Dacron. Stan­
Ombudson staff. •
• dard Ready to Fly/3..0 or.' Daoren. Standard Ready to Fly/3.8• oz. Dacron. Competition 11/~.ll oz. Dacron. Choice of seated or• prone harness. Accessories available~ • 
,.., l" ~ 


•
l07 ... ( •< 
.. ,... 1 • • 18A 1 13 ~ 
•
•
•STARTS OPEN 
•
•
iTONIGHT! 7:00 
•
•
• 
•
•
•
~ HAS RULED THAT ~ 
•
•
~ "CARNAL KNOWLEDGE" ~ 
•
•
•
~ IS NOT OBSCENE. f 
•
• 

••
• • 

•
• 

•
• 

•
• 
• 

~ Mikt' NidlOI'i.IJ<k Ni<hol~n. ~ • 
~ (..Jrnlitr HeJ#n. Arthur Garfunkel. .~ •
• 

~ Ann Margrer ..Jnd Ju~ Feiller. i • 
t ft~rn..JI Knowlrdgt·. ! •
• 

~ 40oKOf •~"lf'IPO'd .JA•In:»•] Hltl~ j wtnf' AQ ~II 11M ~ •
•

IR) ~ An Avco Embassy Piclu•e ~ 
•
•
• 

This ad plus one paid ad­•
•

mission admits 2 students! e CHANDELLE CHICAGO; MT. PROSPECT, ILLINOIS FOR LOCAL INFORMATION, CONTACT JOHN HAM­


• MONO, 272-7909 ·• 
·-~·. . "f, •..•il) 1.•'1 ., • -... • -....
• .. f •• -•• ~ • • • 
~-···················································~······································ 
------~---_...----------­
Reduced from $100,000 
Liddy released on bail 
WASHINGTON fUPIJ -G. Gordon Liddy, silent member of the original Watergate break-in team, was released from jail on a sharply reduced $5,000 bond Tuesday after his attorneys promised a federal judge he would not flee the country. 
Liddy, sporting a neat salt­and-pepper breard grown dur­ing nearly 21 months in federal prison and the District of Columbia Jail, was set free 90 minutes after U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell reduced the appeal bond from $100,000. 
The former Nixon aide, who has steadfastly refused to testify about Watergate, is currently appealing jail terms totaling more than 20 years in 

In IVbssachusetts 
the break-ins at Democratic national headquarters and the office of Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist. 
He has was also convicted of contempt of Congress and for refusing to testify to a grand jury about Watergate. 
Liddy, 51, declined to com­ment on his release and headed for his Oxon Hill, Md., home and his wife and five children. 
Liddy's attorneys said his mother put up the cash for his lowered bond and contended that he presented no risk of flight and no danger to the community pending outcome of the appeals. 
"Mr. Liddy should not leave the United States," said Gesell after he was assurer! by 
National Guard mobilized 
ment of state and Metropolitan Hy DAVID M. ROSEN District Commission police 
BOSTON (UPIJ Gov. which I ordered into the city Francis W. Sargent mobilized last week." the Massachusetts National Fights broke out between Guard today when violence blacks and whites at Hyde Park marred the 23rd day of a court High School today. At least order to integrate the city's seven students were injured, public schools and he asked including a 15-year-old white President Ford for federal bov stabbed in the stomach. troops "to insure the public safety." 
At a hastily called news conference, the governor said guardsmen "are now en route to key armories in and around the city of Boston." 
Sargent said "for the pre­sent" the guardsmen will remain in the armories but emphasized, "If federal troops are denied or delayed and (if) defense attorney Peter Marou­lis that Liddy had already surrendered his passport. 
The U.S. prosecutor's office did not contest the request for lowered bail by Liddy, one of seven men originally charged with conspiracy, burglary, bug­ging and wiretapping in the Watergate break-in. 
Gesell said he had discussed the case with U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica, who earlier set $100,000 bond in the Watergate case. 
"It is entirely appropriate to grant bond to Mr. Liddy at this time," said Gesell, but stipulat­ed that Liddy should report to federal marshals "when and if either or both of these convictions is upheld." 
Liddy, former White House aide a'nd counsel for the Finance Committee to Re-Elect the President, was convicted and sentenced in early 1973 to up to 20 years in the Watergate break-in and later was convict­
ed  and  sentenced  in  the  
Ellsberg ca se.  
He  also  served  time  on  

Sirica's order for refusing to answer questions to a federal grand jury and was convicted in a nonjury trial earlier this year on two counts of contempt of Congress. 
Wednesday, October 16, 1974 the observer 1 1 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

For sale: 4 Army tickets, cheap. Call Jeff, 3316. 
4 Army tickets. Regular price. Call Bill, 1207. 
Stereo . Philco . AM-FM radio, S­track, turntable. $100. Call Ron, 1876 
Tape deck, 1 yr. old. Panasonic, bi­directional, cassette deck with auto-stop. Just cleaned, checked. 3480 for details. 
5 GA Army tix, $8.50 each. Call Dave, 3073. 
Akai GX-400 DSS open reel with Advent 101 Dolby. Must sell-Mike, 1487. 
'67 Dodge, 112-ton, 37,000 miles. Excellent running cond. New brakes and battery. $1,000. 232­8500. 
'70 Opel. Needs work, body and engine. New starter, carb, tires. 20+ MPG. Call 232-8500, best offer. 
Pioneer PL-51 turntable with Audio Technica AT-15S cartridge, $290. With AT-123, $260. Call Ed, 1487. 
2 tix for MacDavis. Good floor seats. Alice, Student Accounts. 
14 excellent Army tix at $8.50 each. 15-yard line. Schaefer, 2153. 
2 Army tix -·call Andy at 1612. 
Sherwood 58900-A Dynaquad FM receiver. 60watts RMS, 9 mos. old. $300. Call before 2:30, 232-8854. 
2-GA Army tix. Call Charlie, 1722. 
4 Army GA tickets. Call Dan, 1772. 
WANTED 

Wanted: riders, points south, San Antonio, Tex. Oct. 26. Gil. 1060. 
Needed: ride to Gettysburg, Pa. area tor October break. Call Val . 8143. 
Need ride to Boston for Oct. break. Call Jane, 7995. 
Desperately need ride to L.l. or 
N.J. for Oct. break. Will share expenses. Call Debbie, 5198. 
I need a ride to St. Louis for Oct. break. Please call Maggie, 232­4069. 
Gain career experience employers demand. We need degrees in business, law, architecture, economics, and engineering. See Peace Corps-VISTA in the library, Oct. 14-17. 
Need ride to St. Louis or Kansas City, Oct. break. Call Cyndi, 5776 or 5428. 
Wanted: people who can farm, speak Spanish or French, teach English or Math, have degrees in all liberal arts areas, education and science. See Peace Corps­VISTA in.the library, Oct. 14-17. 
Desperately need ride to Davenport, Iowa, area or west on 1-80 weekend of Oct. 18. Will share $ and driving. Call John, 1774. 
Wanted: ride to NYC, around Oct. 
10. Call Michele, 5745. 

Ride needed to Philadelphia-N.J. area on Thurs. Oct. 24. Call 8736. 
Need ride to St. Louis for break. Can leave anytime. Will share expenses. Call Nellie, 4396. 
Badly need a ride to St. Louis for October break. Call Hogie at 1612. 
Need one Pitt ticket. Desperate. Call Lisa at 3351. 
Need ride to Oklahoma Oct. break. Call Cyndi, 5776 or 5428. 
Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Army. Call Mike, 232-2773. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Pitt. Tom, 288-2613. 
t ' ( 
Need 4 GA Pitt tix. Call 3665. 

Need ride to Florida tor Oct. break. Call Ellen, 4832. 
Need 7-8 GA or student tix for Pitt. Call Chuck. 1592. 
FOR RENT 

Modern executive 2-bedroom cottage located on 30 wooded acres of St. Joseph River frontage and Orchard Hills Golf Course. Win­terized cottage also features large fireplace, wall-to-wall carpeting, fully equipped kitchen, and riding horses. Perfect for out-of-towners on Notre Dame football weekends with only a 10-minute ride !o the stadium. $150 per we~k. Call 616­695-6043. 
NOTICES 

24 hr. TV repair service. 7 days a week, Sundays and holidays. Color TV's $60 and up. StPreo units $50 and up. Call Western Electronics . 282-1955. 
Free: one cute male dashchund. Great pet! Call Chris, 232-6045 or Mary, 4167. 
Legal problem, but no money? NO Legal Aid can help. Call 283-7795 M-F, 1-4 p.m. 
Secret Life of Plants now in paperback at Pandora's Books. 602 
N. St. Louis Blvd. 

Attention:  Hall  J-Board  Chair­ 
men:  Meeting  6:30  Wed.  
Presidential  Conference  Room,  
Administration Bldg.  

To 2 SMC Freshmen: We are a pair of disillusioned Morrissey Hall freshmen who are presently suffering from the monastic life. If similar symptoms prevail, please call 3573. Ask for Friar Dan or Brother Jim 
Ski Aspen, Jan 4-ll, Lodging and Lifts only $130. Last day for $50 deposit Fri. Oct. 18. Call 6856 or rm. 341 Farley. 
WIND! Most distinctive sound on campus! Make your next party or dance special. Call Mitch, 272-9321. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: gold Seiko watch, South Quad. Reward, call 1760. 
Lost: ladies' silver bracelet-type wrist watch. Call 3272. 
Money found -give amount and condition. 8843. 
PERSONALS 

Lady, Happy monthday and only ten more days without you. 
Love, Smokey. 

Pheneas and Schweitzer: Thanks for the cupcake! It was a sweet thing to do. 
Sue 

Dear Plip-Piop, Glad to hear that Mary's all better. You know more. 
Love, Tuiz 
Brown Sugar, 
I wuv you wots. Wobin Hood 

Help! Too many mothers. Needed­one mistress. Sorin John, no. 48 
Dear Bob No. 2: 
Happy Belated Birthday. Pattie 
Toots: 
Happy Birthday. All our love, Peg and woody 

To all good sisters & novices: "Sister Mary, you have a sexy voice." Want to buy a tape. 
Jim M. tried to "scare" and got "stuffed." 
Of course we love you Pat. The women of NO 

• 


the safety of the public 
St. Nary's
requires, I will not hesitate to 
order National Guard into the 
streets of Boston." 
Sargent said he took the 

News Staff Meeting
action after consultation with the state commissioner of public safety and after review­
\NEDNESDAY NIGHT!!! 
ing reports on the outbreak of violence earlier today in the Hyde Park section. 
All REPORTERS AND 
"It is clear that the situation is increasingly volatile," the 

ANYONE INTERESTED IN 
governor said. "I have deter­mined that the public safety can no longer be assured solely 

REPORTING ARE INVITED 
by local police or local law enforcement agencies, even 
159 REGINA NORTH 7:00PM 
with the additional reinforce­




iWEDNESDAY NIGHT ·i 
!• • 8:00 TO CLOSING • ~ • 
!• 3 FOR $1.00 i• 
~ UNCLE WILLIE'S FATAL ~ 
• • ~ GLASS OF BEER i• • 
.·•...........·······························••·····•······•••··•••••····:· 

~ -­

• 
Cagers prep for Nov. 30 
by Grl'g ('organ Ill.l, Randy Haefner (6'6", 190, sophomore group. 
Sports Editor Cicinnati, Ohio), Dave Batton "If we opened tomorrow instead (6'8", 200, Springfiled, Pa.), and of November 30," said Phelps, Don "Duck" Williams (6'3", 175, '"the lineup would be this: Crotty 
The Southern California game Washington D.C.). would be at center, as of now I've still seven weeks away, but while Phelps evaluated each of his new given him the green light, Dantley Nov. :10 is the date for the football youngsters. and Paterno would be at the for­team's season finale, it is also the "Batton is a forward more than a wards and Clay and Martin would date for the basketball team's center," Digger explained. "The be the guards. Of course between season opener. hardest position to learn is the now and November 30 anything 
Digger Phelps and his 1974·75 center spot. We're going to be can happen." Irish basketball squad begin their patient with Dave and just let him A few things that will happen 26 game schedule against adjust. He's a dedicated athlete between now and then are certain. Valparaiso on the last day in and we'll just wait and see. Digger plans to work extensively November, and, in rather long "Randy Haefner has good speed on rebouding and is anticipating a range anticipation, they began and he's a good shooter. We're change in the Irish offensive at­workouts last night. anxious to see what he can do. We tack. 
The Irish return a young team. want to use him as a press player. "Our biggest concern is getting Ten of the 15 squad members are "Duck is a solid offensive and the ball off the boards both of­l'ither freshmen or sophomores defensive player," Phelps con­fensively and defensively," he and there are only two seniors, co­tinued. "We don't want him to be a said. "We play some big teams, captains Dwight Clay and Peter Gary Brokaw or anybody except including Kansas, Indiana, UCLA, Crotty available for the 74-75 just Duck. He.ll see a lot of action and Kentucky back to back and campaign. this season. that's not to mention Maryland, 
The loss of John Shumate, who "Carpenter has a lot of potential, Pittsburgh, Marquette and South graduated with his class last year especially as a point guard. He's Carolina later on. and guard Gary Brokaw, who filed the kind of guy that,ll go out there "Offensively we're going to for hardship and is now with the and take charge." move everything to a high post and Milwaukee Bucks compounds the "What we want to do is blend the run more. This way we can use problem, but right now, Phelps is four freshmen into our basic plan. Crotty, Batton, (Toby) Knight, looking beyond that. During practice we will relate drill <Myron) Shuckman and ('Roger) 
"It's obvious we have to rebuild situations to game situations Anderson at either the center or 60 per cent of our ball club," said rather than just run a certain kind forward spot. the 33 year old head coach, who of drill, like a three-man weave for "Defensively we're going to begins his fourth season at Notre instance." press more full court. With Car­Co-Captain Dwight Clay is one of Digger Phelps' two returning seniors. Dame, "but rather than look at it Despite the youth Digger has penter and Williams we have the Along with Pete Crotty they are the old men on a young team. in a negative way, we're just going three experienced sophomores to speed and depth to put on a 40 to have to look at the season work with. Adrian Dantley is back minute press." Princeton, Kansas and Indiana We play 12 of our last 14 games at positively. at forward position and will try to Phelps went on to talk about a games we go on an eight game home and this gives us an op­
"We just plan on picking up improve upon his 18.3 average of a schedule which is againone of the road trip beginning with UCLA and portunity to come on strong at the where we left off last year, but with year ago. Bill Paterno and guard most rugged in the nation. ending with Marquette. If we get end of theseason." a couple of new faces." Ray "Dice" Martin both saw "We open with Valpo which is a through that road trip OK we'll be The regular season ends on 
The "new faces" are freshmen considerable action in '74 and with good game to begin with," Digger in good shape. Our goal this season March I with Dayton at home. The 
Jeff Carpenter (6'0, 170, Chicago, Dantley provide a veteran said. "But after the Northwestern is again to get a post-season bid. Flyers were one of the only three teams to beat last year's 26-3 basketball squad. UCLA and Michigan, in the NCAA regionals
Allocco -first-rate back-up man were the other two. 
Phelps has depth at guard with 
Frank Allocco is one of only a When I made the visit something though. The competition helped like me who didn't play much in Dave Kuzmicz, Bill Drew and Tom handful of athletes throughout the hit me and the decision was bring us together and we help each college. Varga which will guarantee country blessed with the ability to made." other in many ways. If I had it all "But any decision must wait for strength for his press defense. play more than one varsity sport. to do over again, I'd come right awhile. We've still got a lot of "But the big question, Digger 
An outstanding athlete at New Yet everything hasn't been rosy season left, and many more things repeats, "will be whether or not we
back and be Tom's replacement.Providence High School in New for the dean's list :student in the An experience my older brother to accomplish. The early eseason will be able to rebound." Jersey, Allocco won eight varsity College of Arts and Letters. He has Mike had helps me feel the way I left, and many more things to Only time and a 26 game letters and gained all state honors played and practiced in the shadow do. accomplish. The early season loss schedule will tell, but seven weeks 
in football, basketball and of Tom Clements throughout his "Mike was a super basketball to Purdue made us all sick and we preparation, beginning last night baseball. stay at Notre Dame. "I wasn't player in high school and had a sure learned a lesson. Now we're will help. ' "I was torn between trying to used to being a hack-up man," hard time deciding whether to go back to taking things one week at a All practices are ooen to play collegiate football and says Allocco, "and my sophomore to a 'maior' basketball college, or time. So much can happen before studl'nts, but they will be 
basketball." says Allocco. "But I season was a long one. somewhere he was sure he'd play. the end of the year, we've got to be requested to show their ID cards. decided to con·centrate on football All graduate studens are further
"But I soon learned that every He passed up opportunities for the sure to keep our minds on each 
and asked my high school coach to team has to have competent back­major schools and did a standout separate game. requested to tell the manager in help prepare me in the skills he up people to be successful--just like job at Stonehill College in "Regardless of what happens the charge where they received their thought I'd need to play on the last season when reserves and Massachusetts, a smaller school. rest of the way, however, I'll never underg_raduate degree. Last year, college level. Then I was injured newcomers helped us win the Now he wonders if he could have regret the time I've spent here. I accordmg to Phelps, a graduate and was able to play only about two national championship. Then I done as well someplace else-­will be able to look back years student sat in the stands minutes my senior year, which became satisfied with my role and although we both think he could from now and know that I played diagramming the Irish offense and complicated everything. just tried to contribute whenever I have. But that's why I'm here, I with the best and gave it my best." sent the information to the head "But Coach Yonto <Notre Dame was called upon. And, or not Frank coach at his former school. Just
But don't get me wanted to earn a spot playing for whether defensive line coach, Joel still wrong, I'd still love to be in the the best," adds Allocco. Allocco gets his opport~nity to be for those who wonder about such contacted me and I was given an thick of things on the field. Allocco played enough last "first string," no one will ever things, Notre Dame beat them 
opportunity to visit Notre Dame. "Tommy and I are good f rends, season to gain 86 yards in 16 think of him as less than first rate. anyway. carries, including one for a touch­down against Army. Other than the national championship, the 
ND seventh •
lD polls
score "was really a great moment for me," says Allocco, "because my family was in the stands an­UPI Poll 
AP Poll

dwas able to see it. NEW YORK (UP!) -The 1974 Unlt­"And I really am confident that !'d Press International Board of Coach· The Top Twenty, with rtrst·plact> 
es top 20 major college football ratings vot!'s in parenthl'ses, season l'l'COrd andif something.happened to Tom, I with won-lost records and first pia({' total points. Points tabulat!'d on basis of could step in and do the job. I know votes in parentheses: ~18-l&-14-12-1()-~7-S.I>-4-3-2-1: 
I. Ohio State (51) ........ 540 1,100
he's great, but I do have a grasp of Team Points 
I. Ohio St. (33) 5-U . .. .. . 339 2. Oklahoma 15) ......... ~ 1.020 
our offensive system, which would 3. Michigan ( ) .. .. . 540 924 help. Our offense is unbelievably lA~~ma~ ~ 
2. Michigan (I) 5-f ._. _. 21!0 
4. 
Alabama (I) .. . .. 540 814 

5. 
Auburn (I) .. . .. .. 540 636


4. Auburn s-o. .. .. 200
intricate, yet being here for four 
6. So. California. . . 3-1-f 574 
years has enabled me to learn the 6. Texas A&M 4-1 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 137 7. Notre Dame... .. . 4-1-f 508 program. 1. Notl'l' Dame 4-1 . . .. ... .. .. . 13:! 
5. Southern Cantornla !-I 163 
8. Texas A&M.... .... 4-1-f 425 9. Arizona .................. 540 394"Much of my confidence comes 9. Penn State 4·1 . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. 10. No. Caro. St. . .. .. ..... &-1)-1) 323
8. North Carolina ST. 6-0. _.. __ .. 110 
18 

II. Penn State (Irish backfield coach, Tom). He II. Kansas 4-I... .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. 35 12. Neb!ilska . . . . . 3-2-f 169 
from working under Coach Pagna 10. Arizona ~ . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 55 ............. 4-1-f :144 
13. Kansas . . . . . 4-1-0 141 works so hard, we all know we're 14. Flonda . . ...... 4-l~ 101
12. 
Florida 4-1. .. . .. .. .. .. .. ... .. 14 

13. 
Maryland 3-2 .. . .. . .. .. .. .. •.. 13 


well prepared. Coach Pagna 14. Tie Nebraska 3-Z .. .. .. .. .. .. 6 15. 'Arizona State . .. .. .. .. . 3-1-f 73 TiP Vanll«'rbllt 3-1 ..........._. 6 
18. Texas .................. 3-2-f 69
spends a lot of time correcting 
IT. Texas Tedt. ........... 3-1-1 59 things which seem insignificant, 17. Tic Arizona State 3-1 .. .. . . 3 18. Maryland ............... 3-2~ 49 
I&. Miami Fla 3-1 . . _ .. .. . .. 5 
19. Miami, 0............... 4-0-1 41
but we all know it's those little Tic Miami Ohlo 4-0-1.... .. . 3 
:!ll. Tulane . .. .. . .. ......... 4-1)-1) 39things that make a good play. :!ll. Tic Texas 3-2 ... . .. ........... 2 Others receiVIng votes, llst!'d alpha· "I hate to think about leaving TiP Tulane 4-0 .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . Z bP!IcaUy: Arbnsas, Baylor, CalllomJa, here," adds Allocco, who knows Note: by agreement with the Ameri­
Tie Illlools4-l................ 3 
llilnols, Miami Fla., Missouri. Okla­can Football Coaches, teams on proba­lroma State, Pitt, Temple, UCLA, Van· 
that his active days at Notre Dame derbllt, Wisconsin.
tion by the NCAA are Ineligible tor 1011 are growing to a close. "I've given mand -national champlonshlf C01151der­ation by the UPI Board o Coacbes.
some thought to law school or 
Th()S(' teams currently 011 probationpossibly playing in the World are: Oklahoma, SMU; Callfornta, Long 

Football League. That new league Beac!J State and SouthWt>stera Loul.s­
Frank Allocco rolls left looking for an open receiver in practice this fall. lana.
has opened new doors for players 










