-------------------~-~--__,....._----------------~~~ 
Oil The IDslcle 
Calendar Survey · .. page 2 
Academic Code · .. page 5 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 2 WednesdaJ, Aupust 28._ !?H 
Directive outlaws alcohol 
Dry spell grips Notre Dame 
by Terry Keeney 
News Editor 
Dean of Students John Macheca ruled 
Monday that students under 21 years of age
will not be allowed to consume alcoholic 
beverages on campus.
'The directive was issued to comply with 
two recent Indiana Court decisions that 
regulate sale and service to minors. 
The directive outlawed all hall and 
section parties and outlined enforcement 
procedures against underage drinkers that 
run as high as an assessment of $50 for serious violations. 
t.:oming in the wake of two recent Indiana court 
decisons, the directives by the Dean of Students are an 
attempt to comply with those decisions whch extend 
legal liability for underage drinking to anyone who has 
knowledge of its existence. 
In the two-page statement to rectors and hall staffs Macheca wrote, "By virtue of our responsibilities to the state, the institution and the students, we will not only respect the law but also confront those who don't. Our rules and regulations, as well as our procedures must be consistent with the laws of the State of In­diana." 
The directive is a complete reversal from last year's drinking and party guidelines which allowed underage drinking in moderation. Macheca argued that the university had no choice in abolishing underage drinking because of the new law. 
In the two-page statement to rectors and hall staffs Macheca wrote, 
"We've looked at every alternative and everybody we've talked to feels we don't have any choice," Macheca explained. 
If the university did not change its policy toward underage drinking, Macheca said, both the university and the individual student could be held liable under current Indiana law for violating drinking laws. 
Macheca described a case last Sunday in which 137 persons, involved in a customary Amish ceremony, were arrested and charged an average of $49 each for serving alcohol to minors. 
Brother Just Paczesny, vice president for student affairs, concurred with Macheca's assessment. 
"The ogre is the state," said Paczeny. "If we can get the state to change we're in good shape. We had no choice but to go back on the regulations we had last year." 
The ruling by the dean of students extends only to those circumstances of underage drinking in the residence hall "which the hall staffs either know or should be aware of." Macheca said that under many circumstances the hall staffs can and should be aware of underage drinking. 
"If something is so conspicuous as to be obvious to any reasonable person that you have an abuse of alcohol and if we have good reasonto believe there is a violation of university rules , we }]ave a right and obligation to become involved," he said. 
The ruling leaves some area for students under 21 to drink alcohol. Macheca admitted that under certain circumstances rectors and RA's cannot be expected to know that minors are drinking. 
"Ifa student is in his room and is not 21 years old and drinking a beer," he said, "there's no way I can be expected to know that." 
Both Macheca and Paczeny emphasized that the new ruling will be enforced on a hall-to-hall basis. Staffs in each hall will be asked to establish enforcement policies for members of that hall. Only those in­cidents which are serious or occur outside the residence hall will be handled on the University level. 
(co'ltinued on page 3) 

Football suspensions-no criminal matter 
by Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief 
• and 
Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
Six Notre Dame Football players were suspended from the University for at least two semesters during the summer session. The offical university statement said the action followed, "a serious violation of University rules." 
In separate statements, yesterday, Fr. Theodore M. Hesbur~h, University president and Ara Parseghian, head football coach, emphasized that the suspensions did not involve a criminal matter. . . 
The incident occurred on July 3 in Stanford Hall and resulted m the suspensiOn of six student athletes. Five other students were placed on one year probations. Their names were withheld by the University. 
An investigation by John Macheca, Dean of Students, resulted in the suspension of defensive ends, Ross Browner and Willie Fry; offensive halfbacks Dan Knott and AI Hunter; and strong .safety Luther Bradley and Roy Henry, reserve quaterback. , . "ty
The official university statement, released July 25, stated that a uruv~rs1 policy of confidentiality in disciplinary procedures was being respected m not releasing the university rules violated. . Fr. Hesburgh referred consistently to the confidentiality of each student m­volved. "The situation was handled exactly the same for thesesstudentsas any other students." Hesburgh said. In his statement, Parseghian said that the six were suspended because they had a girl in their room after hours constituting a parietals violation. 
"After a person is apprehended for violating a university rule, no matter who he is, the same penalties are to be imposed," Parseghian said. "Further, this should go as a forewarning to anyone else." 
"Any other student is not going to suffer such adverse publicity," Parseghian added. Roger Valdiserri, Sports Information Director, said the issue had been ha.ndled through the adminsitration and not the athletic department. "Responsibilityfor any details released was taken by the university ad­minsitration," Valdiserri said. 
The university did notreleasethe names of the six students involved. The nameswere releasedby an assistant St. Joseph County Prosecutor from an un­signed complaint si filed by an 18-year old South bend Woman alledging rape. 
Thecomplaintwas withdrawn the next day. John Macheca, Dean of Students said that he too could not comment on the details of the case due to the univerisyt's confidentiality policy. 
Macheca explained that any re-admission proceedings would be the same as any other student. Main criteria for re-admission will be academics and discipline. 
"Their primary hurdle will be to Jvercome disciplinary problems., Macheca said. As with any other student, Macheca added, they will have to demonstrate real desire to return. 
An estimate of the six students chances for readmission would be be possible until their re-application, Macheca said A fair and complete evaluation could not be made until then, he said. 
Calendar survey . .. See page 2 
According to university judicial procedure, each student involved was given the choice of appearing before the judicial board or the Dean of Students. All 
chose the Macheca 's office .Their final appeal was made to Fr. Hesburgh. Suspended dismissal for a periO<l of ~o less than one academ~c y~r was 
New academic code
determined by Fr. Hesburgh after the s1x students appealed to him directly. Parseghian was also permitted an appeal on their behalf to Hesburgh. The dean's recommendation had been expulsion. 
Parsegian does not feel the penalty was totally commendable. "They treat all students alike by there are other considerations. The same penalty doesn't 
. .. See page 5 
always result in the same consequences," Parseghian said. 






SeniorBarstatusr---------------~-~.-..........~-L~U•S•:•L~O•R•D•S._o.F_F~L•A~T~B~U~S~H~'~6~:3~0--~9~:1~ 
still up in air 
The Cultural Arts Commission presents
by Fred Graver 
t 
Contributing Editor 
In a letter sent yesterday to the Notre Dame Alumni Club, the office of Student Affairs has of­fered to operate the Senior Bar for the coming year, according-to 
Fr. David Schlaver, Director of 
Student Activities. 
The operation of the Senior Bar is presently under temporary suspension by the National Board of the Alumni Club. Many members feel that the Senior Bar, which occupies a building originally intended for use as an Alumni Club, is too much of a liability to the Alumni Organization. Other factors in the suspension are the recent financial and organizational problems with the previous Senior Bar management. 
A prime difficulty in exchanging operation of the Bar is the liquor license, which is presently held by the Alumni Club. The Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission may veto the exchange of the license, or prohibit the Student Affairs office from obtaining a new one. 
Brother Just Pascezny, Vice­President of Student Affairs, has 
briefs 
MIAMI <UPI) -A 74-year old woman, Mrs. Madelyn Pratlaw, was bound over to a federal grand jury Tuesday on charges of at­tempting to smuggle $350,000 worth of cocaine into the country. 
MANHEIM, Germany <UPD -In what officials called one of West Germany's worst prison scandal, 11 guards have been arrested on charges ranging from manslaughter to illicit sex and liquor traf­ficking, State justice minister Traugott Bender said Tuesday. 
BELFAST CUPD -A premature explosion in an apparent Irish Republican Army bomb factory killed one man and injured two others Tuesday in the border town of Newry, a British army spokesman said. 
BERKELEY, Calif. (UPI)-Shotgun blasts fired into a crowded after hours club early Tuesday killed one man and wounded four others, including heavyweight boxer Thadeus Spencer. 
TEMPE Ariz. <UPI> -Ernesto Miranda, central figure iri the 
U.S. Supr~me Court's celbrated "Miranda ruling" requiring law officers to warn suspects of their constitutional rights at the time of arrest, was ordered Monday to stand trial on a weapons charge. 

wednesday: 
8 am . classes resume --have fun I 
8, 10 pm. movie, "five easy pieces," engineering aud. 
thursday: 
8,, iO pm. movie, "five easy pieces," engineering aud. 
saturday: 
6, 9, 12 pm, movie, "s'oundof music," washington hall. 


Jack Nicholson Karen Black 
•
1n 

FIVE EASY PIECES 
Wednesday And Thursday­August 28 & 29 
by Fred Graver and AI Rutherford Observer Editors 
In an Observer survey of 280 
students conducted yesterday 88 
per cent of those polled favored 
reconsideration of the current 
Academic Calendar. 
The poll, which included a 
random sampling of up­
perclassmen,sought to ascertain 
the student's feelings about the 
present calendar situation. 
Of the students who were asked 
whether the pre-Labor Day start 
affected their summer earnings, 68 
per cent answered yes and 32 per 
cent answered no. 
Among those students who claimed a loss in summer ear­nings, 11 per cent claimed a loss of $0-UIO, 62 per cent claimed a loss of $ lOG-250, and 'l:1 per cent lost more than $200 as a result of the pre­Labor Day return. 
One of the primary student arguments during the debate over the calendar last year centered on the loss of earnings during the summer vacation due to the pre-Labor Day start. 
Off-campus students were polled to see if the early return caused 
them to pay one extra month's rent. only 15 per cent reported their landlord's charging them for August, while 73 out of the 86 off. 
campus students polled, or 85 per
cent, stated that they were not charged for an extra month. Some did say, though, that they were asked to pay for an extra week or four extra days rent as a result of the early return. 
In response to a question asking whether students preferred this year's Pre-Labor Day return, based on the studnet's experience to date, 90 per cent stated a preference for last year's calen-
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semftter except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid; Notre Dame, Ind. 
dar. 
In the course of last year's debate over the calendar, Father Burtchaell, provost of the University, stated that "If people aren't satisfied next fall, we'll know about it." One of the ob­jectives of this poll is to make public student feeling about the calendar. 
The results of this poll comprise the first part of a three part poll which will be conducted by the Observer during the semester to 
OBSERVER CALENDAR SURVEY 
1. 
Were your summer earnings affected by the pre-Labor Day start? YES 68 per cent NO 32 percent 

2. 
By how much were your earn,ings affected? a) .$0-100(11 percnet) b) $100.250 (62 percent) c) 250-above (27 per cent) 

3. 
(For off-campus students only) Has the early start caused you to pay one extra month's rent YES (15 per cent) NO (85 per cent) 

4. 
From Your experience to date, do you prefer this year's pre-Labor day start to last year'spost-Labor Day start? YES (12 per cent) NO 


(88 t) 
per cen 
Do you feel at this time that re-consideration of the calendar will be necessary? YES 90 per 
cent NO 10 per cent 
A 
0j11fJM 307 5 ...,c ... 5! ~•• 288-7800•. 


NIGHT! Sl.OO CSHOW I.D.l YOU 

determine student reaction of the calendar as each minor.-change occurs. A second poll will be taken after the October break to 
determine how stuedents were~ able to adjust to the new vacation in mid-semester The third poll will be conducted toward the end of the semester, to gain an over-all viewpoint on the calendar, and to gather suggestions for im­provement or change in the' calendar. 
• 
: t 
~·'. :...... 


•tated that "at the moment, there is no rumor or reason to believe the 
8 and 10 P.M. in the Engineering Aud. 
Senior Bar is closing." He added that the questions of where, when, and under what type of 
... \ Admission Is $1.00
-management the bar ·woutd be­
. . • • • , • ~., . , .•• , , , , ••.... 
' ,w-.n•d [nti ,,"-.A.£~ fuf.o"".A 4nio-~~M f io t ''-.' '~ ~ ~' '' •" ",··,"to,~,·,,· ,·,r;J_:.'·'·....'-.'·J.'·...~..,.,....,.._r..~.: ....w.., ...·,',..,•,~.•,•,,·,~~·.~·, .·,, ... , • t"f!-""(1 •"• • • • ~·.,·, ...~~:.'".. '" .... \'".",',.". \'(. "'".'.\\"..' • _ .... ,, ••• :. , 
. , , '.,.,q. f'~ t•E>•'+-'!'--¥"t t"l 'i'4"< 1'"'''-~e· · • • ·IW-ilili_____lliiiilitiifiiillliiiilii-~·--~;.:.:.~;.;_:..:.:.;~.;.;.:.;.;.;.:.:.~:.;.;.~~.;.;_;~;.;.:~~~~~~;.;.;~..J 
-----....----------------------------~·-~­

,.

..........,. Mgwt .. 1974 
Dean of Students issues alcohol directive 
(continued from page 1) 
"Just as with any minor situation we like to see them worked out on the hall level," said Macheca,. "Only if it is a serious matter will it be handled at a university level." 
Paczesny wants to leave the enforcement to the halls. "The halls themselves can set up some sort of sanctions," he said. 
No concrete provisions have yet been made for en­forcement of this new ruling outside the hall. Notre Dame Security has not been instructed to perform any additional tasks in keeping minors from drinking. 
"There have not been any instructions to Security," said Paczesny. "We are thinking mainly in terms of the hall staffs." 
In leaving the enforcement of the alcohol provisions to the individual halls, both Macheca and Paczesny saw little occassion for the maximum fine of $50 being assessed against a student violator. 
"We hope that in most cases all that would be necessary is a reprimand," said Paczesny. 
"Hopefully the fine is a common sense thing," Macheca said. "It would depend on the severity of the situation. A $50 fine is not going to be your first alternative." 
lmpac t on Students 
.....I 

The alcohol guidelines adopted by the Student Life Council last year remain in effect for students over 21, Macheca said. However, he estimated the effect saw 
~· 

the result of the new ruling over all as undermining any progress made within last year's ~uidelines. 
"From the standpoint of where we were last year, there's no question that this inhibits our ability to be able to use the social aspect of drinking as educational," Macheca said. 
He is hopeful that students can "challen~e one another to find more creative ways of 'socializing . " 
Student Bars 
In the directive underage students are warned of rumored crackdowns at local bars frequented by students. It stated: "local reports indicate an im­minent crackdown on individuals using illegal (false) identification for the purposes of acquiring, con­suming, etc. alcoholic beverages." 
"From the standpoint of where we were last year, there's no question that this inhibits our ability to be able to use the social aspect of drinking as educational." 






CARPET REMNANT SALE! 
A PANDEMONIUM 01 Value// Buy Now For... 
BEDROOMS! DENS! APARTMENTS DORMS! KITCHENS! BATHROOMS 
Shop Weekdays 10-9, Saturday 10-5:30, Sunday 1-5 (except Labor Day) Cash/carry prices save you more! 
All sizes are minimum. Free Parking! Ph. 212-451JJ STORE
............
~ 
~ 



Directive On Use Of Alcohol 
Situation: The University is "There was eviden<.:e that the with frequenting a place of public more apropos this year is last high as $50 plus any damages that located in the state of Indiana boy had been helping dig a ditch at nuisance .and fined an average of year's statement, "We must resulted. where the legal drinking age the Reeves home. A party $49, as a result of being involved in challenge one another to find more remains 21. A short distance away developed, he finished the job, a party where alcohol laws creative ways of socializing." The If criminal or civilly negligent the state of Michgan allows per­joined the party, dranlt '15 or 16' were violated. A clearer alcohol p:uidelines are still in e-offenses wrer committed by a 
sons 18 years or older to legally use bottles of beer, and had to be tallen understanding of the state of In­ffect l:lut only for those situations student under the influence of alcohol. At last report, 'n of the home diana's current enforcement where the students ·participating alcohol, more serious 
consequences should tw-expected.
fifty states from which our policies is being sought from the are all 21 years of age or over. ­A continued disregard • for this
students come hAve lowered their "Reeves was sentenced to four respective governmental legal drinking ageto 18 or 19, some. days in jail, fined $50 and placed on departments that have those Enforcement: The practical rule could result in a ; with limitations, (i.e. 3.2 per cent probation for one year." responsibilities. implications of this policy are student beiDA: ask~ to leave the beer, beer and wine only, etc.) obvious. There will be no parties campus communaty . or the Counsel for the University as we had .list year. There can be no University altogether. 
concurs that with the Indiana law consumotion of alcohol by minors Policy: By virtue of our respon­In the area of enforcement, the as it now stands, the above policy : under circumstances , which the sibilities to the state, the institution Indiana Alcoholic Beverage is the only alterantive we have. A · hall staffs either know of or 
Conclusion: The University isand the students, we will not only Commission has wameo that they Notre Dame law school faculty should be aware of. Further, 
repect the law but also confront are planning a crackdown on any member after generally anvone 21 years of age or over has limited in its flexibility by the laws those who don't. Our rules and sort of beer or liquor promotion on researching the problem indicated · responsibility under the law not to of the state of Indiana. Other 
institutions sucha s ours in Indianaregulations, as well as our proce-· state college campuses. Any that there weas indeed no way the be in compucity with a minor's have similar limitations . Theirdures, must be consistent with the alcoholic beverage advertising in University, by its policies or by its violation of the law. 
policies are, complimentary · ours. 
laws of the state of Indiana. campus newspapers or programs actions, could approve the Beyond : the state law we have our isincluded in the ban. Further violation of Indiana law. . ;;tudents who violate the policy and own rules which accept the use of local reports incidcate an im­~ules of the University in this For those students wno use alcohol "in moderation." minent crackdown on individuals While the value of the ·egard can and should expect to be alcohol, our ongoing concerns are 
using illegal (false) .identification educational aspects of a program !onfronted by their staff or any that when they use alcohol they for the purpOses of acquiring which maximizes the in~egration >ther member of the University shoulrl not abuse it, themselves or Background: The Brattain vs. consuming, etc., alcoholic of social life with hall and !ommunitv. A serious violation others and that they comply with 
Herron decision of the In­beverages. On August 25, 137 campus life is not overlooked, the !ould result in a fine as the laws of the states. l! dianaCourt of Appeals April 1974 people were arrested, charged legal· factors must prevail. Even 
forced a review of the University's alcohol policy based on the ramifications of that decision. Since that time all inquiries and attempts to assess the situation have indicated that the above policy is both the right and the only position the University should take. The state judiciary has further defined Indiana's i'1­terpretation of the seriousne:;s with which they regard the alcoht•l laws in the recent Reeves decision. 
"South Bend Tribune, August 15, 
1974.
,,i 
"Court Upholds Delinquency Ruling 
"An adult can be guilty of con­tributing to the delinquency of a minor drinking an alcoholic beverage without actually offering it to him, the lndiana Court of Appelas ruled Wednesday. 
"The appeals court affirmed the conviction of Huey Reeves in Morgan-Superior Cort, saying he took no steps to 'discourgage or halt' the drinking by a 16-;yaear-old boy. 
Campbell to t serve subpoenas 
I j, 
on Nixon 
I 
.Los Angeles UPI-U.S. Marshal Gaylord Campbell said Tuesday he probably will serve two sub­
\ 
poenas on former President Richard M. Nixon "Within the next few days." In keeping with his 
f 
previous statementS', Campbell would not disclose when or where he will serve the documents. 
"Service of the the subpoenas on 
Mr. Nixon probably will take place 
i t within the next few days," he said. 
+ 
Campbell said he received in­structions Tuesday from chief U.S. Marshall Wayne· B. Colburn s.aying, "The time is right to serve the subpoenas." 
One subpoena orders the former 
t President to appear in Washington, D.C., in the/ Watergate coverup trial of former Nixon lieutenants'H.R. Haldeman and John Ehrlichman, former Attorney General John Mitchell and three other former White House aides. 
The second subpoena, which Campbell received Monday, requuirea Nixon to make a deposition for a civil suit in ~harlotte, N.C., &J~st Haldeman ~d others· · · · · • .. 

Soonerorlater, you'regoing touse a South.·BendBank 
Why notFirstBank... Sooner? 
A local checking account (or savings But we're also in a pretty good position account, or travel arrangements, or l-oan) to know that e•Jentually you're going to profit may not be one of your top priorities from using ono or more of our 70 diverse when you're more concerned with matters banking servic~s. You've got a long way to go. academic or social. We understand that. We'd like to help you get there. 
Putting YQjJ First is whatwere all about 
r1 FlrstBank. 
-For correct time aMI temperature call 234·7121 
.... ~.' .-. ' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~···~
.. -----~~ 
• ~, .•~t_'ftf tJ"'I.Lt').•·~-~~~t_t-.•itC~,····t._:,,·, , .. ,,·.·,.·,\·. .,._.,, _,,,..·,\;,.·•.',"'·• ~·• t • 

--~~----~-----------------------------------------------------------------~~­
Wednesday, August 21, 1974 the observer 
5 

New Academic Code passed 



by Fred Graver Contributing Editor 
The Academic Code presented to 
students at yesterday's 
registration proceedings were the 
center of a great deal of con­
troversy during its development 
last year. This edition of the Code 
is the first compilation of rules and 
regulations directing academic 
behavior in the University's 
history. 
The original version of the Academic Code was drawn up last year by Father Burtchaell, Provost of the university, and the deans of each college in the university. The proposals the code were made public on April 25 of last year, when the Academic Commissioner Chris Nedeau released to the Observer the strategy that the Student Academic Commission was planning to use in debate at future Academic Council meetings. 
At that time, the main issues surrounding the calendar were: 
-additional fees for credit hours 
taken over a seventeen-hour limit 
in the College of Arts and Letters 
and in the Freshman year of 
studies. Students in the Colleges of 
Business and Engineering were 
limited, under this proposal to 
eighteen hours per semester. 
-mandatory class attendance on each class day before and after classes. 
-revision of the Dean's List standards, from a 3.25 to a 3.5. -procedures fmreadmissionto the university. definition of the university curve. -a grade referendum policy. 
Common to all of these con­troversial points was the fact that none of these regulations haq existed in this form previous to the compilation of the code. "This was not a codification of existing regualtions," Nedeay said, "Many of them have been changed." 
Another over-all controversial point centered on the lack of student input in the compilation of the Code. 
Opinions between university administrators and college deans were somewhat diversified over the controversial points in the code. 
The rationale behind the extra tuition charge for additional credit hours was explained by Assistant Provost William Burke as being a way to keep positions open in some courses that become overcrowded when students choose them as their sixth or seventh course. Dean Thompson, of the College of Arts and Letters, denied statements that the limit was placed to discourage students form at­tempting to graduate in three yeas. 
In defending the need for mandatory class attendance before and after vacations, Dean Thompson said "The University has an obligation to see that somebody's here; frequently before a break you can shoot a cannon down the hall and nobody would ~et hit." 
Thompson disagreed with the 
charge that this rule would in­
terfere with a teacher's right to 
conduct his class independently. 
The Dean's List revisions proved a center point for conflicting positions. Professor John Houck of the College of Business Ad­ministration pointed out that "We take in better people, obviously we should have better people coming out." The Deans explained the raise as being necessary to maintaining credibility and honor to the achievement of a place on the list. 
Dr. Norman Haaser, assistant Chairman of the Mathematics Department, expressed curiosity as to the actual importance of the list. "This one strikes me as a little strange," he said," because my son has been on it for the last five semesters and I haven't seen anything about it in the papers. I just don't know what they do with it." 
A complete definition of the University curve was not favored by most faculty members, as many expressed belief that a teacher should have the right to establish his own standards for performance in a class. 
On May 11, the Academic Council met with the Student Academic Commission in an open hearing to decide which student amendments to the proposed code would be presented to a full meeting of the Council. 
The proposal to institute man­datory class attendance before and after break was rejected at this meeting, along with Chris Nedeau's plan to discuss a "Stop­out-policy for withdrawal and re­admission into the University. 
The entire Academic Council 

Thompson 

met on May 13 in a closed -door 
session to decide on the com­
pleted version of the Academic 
Code. 
Following is a list of points which 
were debated and finally approved 
for entrance into the Academic 
Code on May 13: 
-Though a complete program for withdrawal and readmission was 
Haaser 
RENT A STUDENT UNION REFRIGERATOR! 
Meets All University Regulations 
5 cu. ft. $55 per year 3 cu. ft. $45 per year Call 283-6244 to order 
FREE DELIVERY 
on Saturday August 31 

colleges. 
-The Dean's Honor List was 
placed at 3.4 a compromise bet­
ween the Administration and 
Student Proposals. Other minor PQints which have been added to the code are: 
-a period of seven days froml the beginning of the semester in which to drop and add courses. 
-a regulation stating that no student shall be required to take more than two final examinations in one day or more than three in a 

r6.,. 
the'obser~et · .·· Wednesday, August 28, 1974 
At Saint Mary's 
Hickey foresees active administration 
"For the first time," Dr. Hickey of withdrawals from the College in development grant to. the National meeting challenges for 130 years; 
"We begin the year with an continued, "faculty and ad-any of the previous years." Institutes of Health for the nursing we are convinced that society acting academic administration, ministration will have a clear, Dr. Hickey also noted an in-program, and a renewal to the needs the kind of contribution we but that Administration would like defined statement of the crease of 13 per cent in the number National Science Foundation for can provide. Moreover, we expect to place the emphasis on the word relationships between the of full-time faculty at the liberal the Michiana Math Project. Also, Saint Mary's to continue as a 

!
( 
r' 
:( 
't' 
~ 
( ( ( { ( 
i 
( 
f 
j 
( 
~ 
~ 
( ( ( ( ( 
( ( ( ( 
~ 
( . 
acting-that is, it is not just a Congregation of the Sisters of the . arts college, from 89 to 100. the College intends to resubmit the • quality education institution caretaker; it does not see its role Holy Cross, and Saint Mary's Twenty-one of these full time Lilly Grant proposal. because of the combined and as this, and will be an ad­College, and of the powers and members are new to Saint Mary's "To say we are most optimistic cooperative efforts of the Sisters of ministration that acts, which functioning of the College's Board this year. about our future would, indeed, be the Holy Cross, the Board of active in giving encouragement of Regents." "Assuming a steady enrollment an understatement. Saint Mary's Regents, the alumnae and parents, and support to individuals and Dr. Hickey likened Saint Mary's with no drastic change in major has the characteristics and the faculty, the student body and departments in our mutual College to a "mini-university" concentration of the student body commitments so essential for an administrative staff. We continue commitment to well:-conceived because it offers five degree in the coming years, the financial institution of higher education to believe thwt the future belongsand carefully planned experiment programs in seventeen different picture of Saint Mary's College moving into the seventies and to those who act," stated Dr. and development. academic departments. Within should remain stable, aside from eighties. Saint has been . Hickey in closing. 

These were Dr. William these, there is .a B.A. degree in those inflationary effects being Hickey's, acting president of Saint nineteen areas and a B.S. degree in experienced by the entire Mary's College, opening words as eight. economy," said Dr. Hickey about he greeted the 1974 faculty forum "The picture for Saint Mary's the financial situation. August22. Ashe spoke, Dr. Hickey College is extremely bright," Dr. "During the past two years our focused on four different areas of Hickey told the faculty members endowment income has more than Saint Mary's: governance, as he discussed the academic tripled from an amount just under academic, finance, and future. This year's freshman class one million to $3,075,000 at the end development. is one of the largest in the College's of our fiscal year in May, 1974," he 
Concerning governance, Dr. history, with 534 students reported. Hickey stated that the revisions, representing 40 states and eight Dr. Hickey predicted a stable now underway, of the College by­foreign 'countries. financial picture for the current laws and the Principles of Cor­"Our full-time enrollment for the year, partly due to the higher than porate Organization for the academic year 1974-75 will be 1,646, expected enrollment figure. He Congregation of the Holy Cross will an increase of 166 over the past cautioned, however, that only with be discussed with all College academic year," he continued. careful planning and adequate academic and administrative "We experienced during the past maintenance of control will the personnel. vear one of the lowest percentages College continue to operate in a 
steady manner. 
"As we consider the many factors which will certainly have an impact o n the financial future of Saint Mary's College, it is evident that the College will become increasingly dependent on sources of income other than tuition revenue," stated Dr. Hickey as he moved into the development aspect of the Catholic women's college. The monthly average of unrestricted giving has "To say we are most increased during the past yearoptimistic about our from $11,114 to $12,080, according
future would, indeed, 
to the acting president. be an understatement. The College's program in grants
St Mary's has been and foundations has resulted in an 
meeting challenges for increase from $107,000 in 1972-73 to 
130 years." $238,232 in 1973-74 (this figure includes the Lilly Grant of $75,000 for support of the Northern Indiana Consortium for Education), he furthzr commented. There are a number of large grant proposals being submitted, including a $100,000 challenge grant to the Ford Foundation: $100,000 
HAVE YOU THOUGHT 
BOUT EXPAND IN 
YOUR FUTURE? 
Success in a life choice today demands more than ever the right preparation. Education, of course, is essential. But even though you complete the requirements for a degree, potential em­ployers are searching for individuals who can rapidly advance into the managerial fields. Employers are looking for LEADERS, and Army ROTC is one of the ways you can gain this leadership experience. 
Army ROTC offers that "something more" to the college man or woman looking to expand his or her future. 
The tot~l time requirements of ROTC account for little in your academic workload, and no committment is incurred until your ~unior year. While you're looking at our program and deciding If we can offer you something, we will be looking at you. H we're both sa_tisfied we . can of~er each other something, upon graduation you will receive a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Army Reserve. In return you'll be r~uired to serve_~n active duty for two years. The tr~ining, expenence, and abihty to manage people will give you that . "something more" employers seek. 

Try us--call 283-6264 or 6265, or visit the Army ROTC office in Building No. 5. You'll get the facts. 

The Observer needs
Elvis to appear 
Elvis Presley will appear in to do so beginning at lp.m. concert at the A.C.C. on Monday, Thursday, August 29 until 5 p.m. September 30 and Tuesday, Oc­August 30 at the Gate 10 ticket tober 1. Tickets have been office. reserved for Notre Dame and St. Proper student I.D. is required 
writers and artists 
Mary's students for the September and tickets are limited to two per 30 show. The other concert is person. Any tickets that remain completely sold out. after Friday will be used to fill 
Students who wish to purchase surplus mail orders. 

/
tickets for the concert will be able 

IGHTS OFCOLUMB 
Presents 
A MAN CALLED HORSE 

• prooiTeaders and layout
THURS ,FRI, SAT 
subscription and circulation workers

1:00 P.M. 
9:30P.M. 
12:00 Midnight 
and just about anything else you. can think of 
Admission $1.00 Member Free 
call 1715 and ask for any editor KC-·Building On Camp.us 
...--•.•.•.•.•.•_•_•.•_•.. •.--------~---~~~--~· lo•~:n•!lllftll"'"'"•-•--'"'""____lllliiii'IIIOIOil"'"''"""'""'"'""""'""IIII!IIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlii"''"'L!U1tl" .... , .. FlliH~mtUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIillll~ll!ll~ti~H!ID!M~~ ~ _ ~UUI.......KI 

.·. ' 


\ A new look in downtown South Bend 

Photos by Zenon Bidzinski 



Wednesday, August 28, 1974
the observer
8 
Students await Campus Vi~w completion 
by Jim Winters Only 8 of the 68 leased units are September 30. ready for occupancy, but as yet, However, the construction
and 
George Velcoch none have been furnished. In all, superintendant, John Weiler, did Staff Reporters 96 units are under construction. not forsee completion of the ~. Jim Kleiser, an assistant project until mid-October. .. Over 150 Notre Dame students manager of Campus View. Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director J; • • . ­are still awaiting completion of 60 of Off-Campus Housing, considers ~·

predicted that half of the un­furnished Campus view apartment finished units would be completed both estimates overly optimistic. 
;i\·i 
units leased to them last spring for by September 10, and the He predicted that it will take a ~ . ' occuoancy this fall. 
remainder would be ready by month or more to complete only : ~ •\ the 68 already leased apartments. · {it\iStudents will occupy finished .. l·.-~ apartments while nearby unis are being completed. · ... 
"IT's going to be a bad place for :;_Ji;ffr.; 
some kids to live while con­struction is going on," Tallarida said.
('­
,( Students awaiting completion of I ·,[ ,• their apartments are being .I housed by the developers in 

i. Stoneridge Garden Apartments. No rent will be charged for this week, but Tallarida said the students are without desks or chairs and are sleeping on mat­tresses on the floor. 
In July, the developers predicted 48 completed apartments by the opening of school, Tallarida continued. Later the estimate was lowered to 24, still far above the 8 actually completed. 
Tallarida credited the campus View developers for "trying hard,", but criticized their con­tginuing inability to provide a realisti~ completion deadline. 
by Terry Keeney Mary's class of 1978 is very career News Editor 
conscious, noting that only 52 students (or 11 percent) did not St. Mary's welcomed its largest declare an intended study. More 
freshman class in history this women have a definite idea of what 
weekend as 534 women arrived for they expect from their college the fall semester. The arrival of education, she believes. the class of 1978 brings the total "I think the students today, 
enrollment at Saint Mary's to 1649. especially women, are more aware 
The incoming students hail from of career opportunities available to 40 states and 7 countries. Illinois them and of the job market," bears the rlistinction of being the Madden said. r'I state most represented in the Academically the incoming 
class. freshman class is well qualified. 
~~ 
In keeping with a national trend "The quality of thestudentsis very this year, St. Mary's freshman high," Madden noted. .·~ class will have more students from 
Dessert night at
d the local Michiana area. Twenty­l( seven students will commute as 
f( day students while other area St. Mary's tonight 
i ( natives will live on campus. 
! / A special dessert night will be
The class is evenly divided
( i the highlight of a n orientation 
'I'( between graduates of public program to acquaint the women on
(' schools and private catholic 
the Notre Dame and St. Mary'sl~ schools. Two hundred fifty nine campuses. This featured event is 
(' students were graduated from scheduled for Wednesday, August, ( public high scbooJs while 276 are 28 at 7:00p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, 
(( private anckr Catholic school Le Mans Hall at St. Mary's.alumnae. 
After the sweets are served,
This year's freshman are 
tours of the campus will be offered~~ for thsose not familiar with the
carreer-oriented in their intended (( studies at St. Mary's, contended grounds.i( A free concert follows the other
Admissions Counselor Mary Anne r( activities located on Lake Mairon
Madden. Madden pointed out that (( the Nursing program now in its Island across the library at 9 p.m. :'t' All members of the ST. Mary's and 
second year of operation leads all (( otheher intended majors. It is Notre Dame communities are (( cordially invited to atted the
followed in order by education, English and business as the most ·concert.
({ 
popular fields of study. For infomation calll Mary
( 
Madden believes that the St. Sonneboren at 4782. 


( .f 
({
d 
((((((((!/ 
'( 
( 
( 
.( 
( 
ELCOME BACK STUDENTS! 
When In Need Of A Quick Getaway, Call lois At 
JORDAN FORD 259-1981 
STUDENT RATES: 
Rent A PINTO For Just 

$5/Day & 9/Mile (MIN. AGE 2JJ 
609 E. Jefferson, Mishawaka 

' 

Wednesday, August 21, 1974 
the observer 

9 
'74 orientation to end next week 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Activities Night and "Carney '74", the final orientation events sponsored by Student Government will take place Monday, Se~ tember 2 and Tuesday, September 3 respectively. 
Over 1800 new students in­cluding 250 transfer stud~nts participated in many studen~ orientation activities last week. 
Activities Night, which will last from 7 p.m. to midnight in the 
LaFortune Student  Center,  is  a  
campus-wide  event  in  which all  
campus clubs  and  organizations  

are on display. Activities Night chairman Mark Nishan estimates that over 60 clubs will be represented. 
''It'll be a fine time for freshmen and upperclassmen to get involved in University life," he noted. Nishan discussed the wide variety 
". . . has received enormous amounts of cooperation from everyone, particularly Dr. Emil Hofman and Fr. David Schlaver," (photo by Paul Joyce) 

of clubs available at Notre Dame, including geographic, athletic, community service, and hobby clubs as well as Student Govern­ment and the publications. 
Activities Day, the mini­Activities Night for new studnts, was held in LaFortune Monday morning despite ongoing renovation fo the student center. Eight hundred students attended this Activities Day where eighteen organizations assembled. 
"I wish more clubs had been 
. at was an excellent opportunity to give the freshmen an idea what the clubs are like," Nishan said. Nishan forsees few problems with Activities Night and LaFortune renovation coinciding. "We're hopeful that all problems will be working out and LaFortune will be liveable at that time,' he stated. "Carney '74", which will feature a picnic dinner, contests, games, and WSND broadcasts, will be held on the South Quad Tuesday and will be open to the entire ND+SMC community. The day's activities, beginning at 4:30 p.m. and continuing until dark, will be free for ND residents' but the picnic dinner will be provided to off-campus students, administrators, faculty, and staff for one dollar. SMC students will 


su sponsors book exchange 
Tired of spending exhorbitant prices for new books? Or are you tired of prapsing around campus in search for somebody selling used books? 
The Student Union is sponsoring a used book exchange program to facilitate the buying and selling of books among students. The ex­change is scheduled from Aiugust 27 to September 1, in the off­campus office of LaFortune Etudent Center. 
Students who wish to sell used textbooks and paperbacks should drop them off at the office on 
profit proje organized solely for receiving a comm1ss1on for any convenience in book-buying and books sold. Again this year tbe SU selling. La t year the Student will try to sell most of the books at 
Union handle l over $2000 without no commission. 
Female. transfer students due to live in basement of f:arley . 
Tuesday, August 27, or Wed-1 k f 1
nesday, August 28, with their ac o rooms. n an attempt to
increase the female enrollment 
name, address and selling price on this fall the university admitted the book. Any unsold books may be about 60 girls last summer with picked up on Monday night, Sep-only ten available beds. The tember 2 along with the money Housing Office anticipates several from books that were sold. dorm cancellations that would 
Students interested in buying provide the needed space to house books can purchase them at these the transfers. appointed hours: Since last week there has been a 
Tuesday, August 27: 1 to 5 p.m.. total of 12 girls in the same Wednesday, August 28: 1 to 10 situation in the basement. In the Thursday, August29: 1 to 10 p.m. meantime one has moved into an Friday, August 30: 1 to 5 p.m. open room resulting from a can­Sunday, September 1: 1 to 5 p.m. cellation and 3 ofhers have The book exchange is a non-acquired off-campus quarters. 
l'AHTY 
Friday Night 8:30 -12:00 
Stoneridge Apartments -Community Building 
on Ironwood just north of the toll road 
TALISMAN formerly the Mark Bloom Banmusic by and the Crow Brothers Band 
the party will be open to residents of stoneridge and campus view. Also invited are re~idents of S.M.C.. and Farley, Walsh. B-P. Lyons. and Badin. 
Transportation will be provided for guests from ~.D. and 
S.M.C. car pools will leave the circle and from the S.M.C. parking lot between 8:00 and 9:15 and return after 12. Or drive east on Douglas road one mile to Ironwood. then I 2 mile north to stonebridge. • 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 
Eight female transfers to Notre Dame are currently living in the Farley Basement Motel due to a 
Sister Jean Lenz, rector ol Farley Hall, hopes for enough beds to empty to accomodate most in the basement motel by the end of this week. 
However, if there is not suf­ficient space by the first home football game, those living there must find other lodging. The beds will then be occupied by weekend visitors. -Still, those in the farley Motel are not the only girls waiting for vacant beds. Some are tem­porarily staying with friends either on or off cam us. 
be required to present meal cards 
at the picnic. 
Off-campus students may buy 
tickets for the picnic at the 
Registration centers or at the 
Student Government Office. 
Ticket distribution plans for non­
students will be announced later. 
"Carney '74" is what Campus 
Orientation Chairman Drew 
Costarino called "the climax of a 
very successful orientation 
program." 
"All hall programs .were ap­parently successful," Costarino noted. "The campus programs so far have been more successful than we hoped they would be." 
Costarino added that his com­mittee "received enormous amounts of cooperation from everyone we worked with, par­ticularly Dr. Emil Hofman and Fr. Davirl Schlaver." · 
Other orientation committee members are Alice Harrington, Mary Iden, Mark Grove, Tom Webber. Lem Bradford, and Nixha11 
This year's schedule of activities included an extensive program for transfer students for the first time, Costarino stated. Campus tours, housing advice, 2eneral coun­seling, and a Transfer Reception Breakfast highlighted tne transfer student program. 
The orientation program also provided over 500 freshman parents with extensive tours. The campus committee sponsored a "Friday Night at the Movies" and a Sunday night rock and folk concert at Stepan Center. 
Costarino emphasized that the main role in orientation is played by the hall orientation staffs. "The campus committee's main concern is in coordinating hall activities and sponsoring campus events which welcome and acclimate students to Notre Dame life,'' he observed. 
An estimated three hundred hall workers organized and executed hall orientation efforts. 
INTERESTED IN POLLUTION? .NEED A SCIENCE ELECTIVE?. ,IF SO, SIGN UP FOR MANAND HIS _ENVIRONMENT 
CE 213,2:00 MWF 
I . 
NO PREREQUISITES 


~---..·LIQUOR STOR 
1723 SOUTH BEND AVE 272-9800 
WELCOME BACK!!! BEST BUYS AND SELECTION 10% DISCOUNT BY THE CASE 

JIM-'63 CHUCK-'65 
PROPRIETORS 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MUSIC DEPARTMENT 
Invitation to all students with instrumental experience in Strings Woodwinds Brass and Pel'cussion to join the: ' ' 
Notre Dame Orchestra (with or without credit) Ralph Lane, Conductor Charles Bionde, Associate Conductor 
SOCIAL MIXER: Friday evening, August 30, 7:30-10:00 pm 
Room 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
AUDITIONS: Saturday, August 31 Room 242, O'Shaughnessy Hall 10 am -strings11 am -Woodwinds, Brass, Percussion 
For further information call: William Gerry, Chairman Phone: 6211 Room 248, O'Shaughnessy Hall 

REHEARSALS: E·very Tuesday evening, 8 to 10pm (Starting this September 3) Washington Hall stage 


:~
I 
.(If(, '!' 
(, 
I 
( 
'( 
( 
l. 
I 
( (r 
i ir 
(/I ('i 
( 
f 
(:f 
f~ ~ 
1 r 
t'j) h
(<'
?( 
~ 
m [8 
H 
« 
----~-~-------· -~---~--~~-~~~--~--~~~------­
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDFNT NEWSPAPER  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  NEWS:  283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471  
Tom Drape  
Editor-in-Chief  
Ann McCarry Editorial Editor  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  
Bob Zogas  Terry Keeney  Bob McManus  

~B~u~si:n~es~s~M~a~n~<:~g~er~---------~N~e=w:s:E~d~it::..::o:r:::-________A_d_ve_rt_l_·s_in~g_Ma_n_a~ge_r_ 
August 28, 1974 
Too Easy 
The most memorable event of this summer, this year, perhaps our generation, is the historic resignation of Richard M. Nixon. Enough has already been said, already written, but enough has not been done. Nixon deceived us and he deceived himself. He betrayed himself in his hope that he would not be caught. He betrayed our trust and deceived us by assuming that we, who had elected him, were naive enough to aquit him. Whatever we do, we cannot allow him a reprieve, the final satisfaction an an 'easy' resignation minus an investigation and prosecution. 
To do this would be to follow his example as we would be compronitsin~ ourselves and our beliefs. 
There is no denying that Nixon is a strong man. To do what he did and still personally believe that he was somehow justified in his actions takes guts. On the other hand, it could point to ignorance or isolation from the desires of the people, yet another deciet. 
In any case, Nixon deserves more than he is getting. The United States has pursued such injustices ass over the world. Now is the time to consider our own mistakes ·and give Nixon the treatment he ha_s given us. 
We recommend continued investigation 
of Richard Nixon but only within our 
heritage of due process of law. 
Ann MeCarry Tom Drape Fred Graver Jeanne Murphy 
_a 1iphant------------­


_ 
morning editor: al rutherfurd ass't. morning editor: bill brink 
lay-out: maggie waldman, mary reher, judy peterson 
typists: kathy grace, barb norcross, karin hinks, Howard halle 
copy-readers: pat-hanifin, jeanne murphy, mary janca ad lay-out: t:iob mcmanus, fQm 
whelan, dean janke editorials: ann mccarry 
features: robert-baker sports: greg rorgan, . peggy lawfor, bill delaney picture screener: albert-d'an­fon:io
NOIU REMEMBE~­
COIT''lugraphic: dave rust­
1Ht PINK AGSIGNMCNT SHEETS ME FOR TH/3 
morning controller: l:iOward
6/RL.~-B/...1/li FOR. ~ TH/3 80'15/ 
We weleome '(our comments. Please them fo: 
Letters to the Editor 
P. 0. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
fOt? ONP t:F lH£MAtt TeACH~ 
PROFESSOfe tATHRAP. IN /J/3­SCR/8/NG HIM, 1HI3 UIORP 
7HAT CIJ41ES MO!iT R£A[)IlY 
10 MINO 15 'P/6'."' 
~ 
~~ 
~ 
-friendly shadaw•--­
He's gone 

------------an. ft meCarry_ 
I have returned here for four years, sharing the end of a sum­mer's warm idle dreams and the l>eginning of nine months of study usually ending in an absurd balance of frustrations and in­cidental fulfillments. Each year I miss those who have graduated and gone on, and welcome the freshmen who have come to replace them. 
The freshman is an inspiring figure: we posesss his dreams, his hopes, his potentials, yet his are brighter, untarnished by the ex­periences which taint our wiser returns each fall. I can recall when I was the naivete, innocence characteristic of freshmen. Cynicism and skeptical glances were foreign to me, incomprehensibly sad, intrinsically tragic yet somehow doggedly inspirational. It was at this time I met Michael. He was the first Notre Dame man I met that year and from his handshake I knew that his presence, one so radically new to me, would not be his only distinction. He was a skeptic, a cynic, a concerned pilgrim. He was an antique in his own time, one whose awareness colored every word he spoke and wrote and whose generous pain of that awareness marked every action, every step. 
Michael was a junior that year. Our relationship was infrequent but when we met, .QUr meetings took place on a neutral isolated plain paradoxically colored with the competition that takes place between a disheartened veteran and an idealistic rookie .His battle was perpetual, he battled an enemy that could not be beaten. Mine was just beginning: an optimistic scramble, a motley crusade that spoke of the eternal warmth of springtimes andnsummers and forgot the rapid transience to autumns and winters. Michael's battle was more intense, more direct: he took to fighting the apathy of a "Fat Cat" campus while always being repressed by a disbelief that no one cared as superficially as their actions indicated. 
"Open your eyes, open your heart, open your mind!" was the message he fired to me. I treid to answer, "Believe. Keep trying! Even if they don't hear you, you know, I know that you are better than all of them." 
Notre .. Dame was a most sad, cold place for Michael that fall. The leaves faded. The first bitter snow fell, smothering his dreams. When we lit the Christmas tree, spoke of peace on earth, goodwill toward men, keeping a vigil at the creche, Michael left us to pursue his own path, toward a contribution he could make. The path led far from the Christmas homes here, to other cities, peoples, worlds, armed with that repressive strangeness, that time which robs the toy swords and Christmas candles of their glitter, to dull and extinguish that energy with which a child swears that he will never lay down that sword, nor douse that candle. Michael grew dim and we nearly lost touch with him. He was forgotten by many; idealized by the-few who knew him before he was overcome with the senility of shunned concerns and discouraged capabilities. He was a fighter, a soldier, but on his way he lost his ability to lead and inspired only those faithful who had always loved him. 
A year and a half passed, No one mentioned Michael's name anymore, his concerns were long dead for us. For all we knew, he had acquiesed to the bourgeosie bureaucracy and silentmajority he had always loathed. Surely, they had swallowed him up. But, I could not believe his pilgrimage had ended for he had always been true and dedicated to the strategies of his mind. 
Shortly before I returned to school last year, I was visiting with an old friend, one who had introduced me to Michael. The lapse of time since ourlastmeeting provided many topics and questions, random news and family gossip. And as we sipped tea one morning at breakfast I found out about Michael. I found out that my asssumption had been correct. I found out that he had not suc­cumbed, that he had persevered faithfully in his search, in his battle. Those against him continued to laugh, shrugging him off, closing their eyes, their hearts, their minds to the lessons he needed to teach them. I am convinced that Michael drove on, knowing he was better than all the rest. I learned to believe that he had made his contribution, that he kept travelling on his road gutted with weak, faceless, vicious people. 
Coleen put her tea cup on the breakfast table and sat down. "Did you hear Michael killed himself last month?" I always think of Michael on this, the anniversary of our first meeting. 
Column space on this page is open to any member of the university community. Regular and or oc­cassional contributions are welcome on any topic, in any style. Ifinterested please contact Ann McCarry at the Observer Office, 283-8661, for further in­formation. 
The next issue The Observer will be published on Friday, August 30, 1974 

_w-"e-'-dne..:..::..:.sd=-:a:..!y..:...,..:..:A=ug~u=s~t-=2'::..'.....:.19.:..:7.....:.4______:t:..:.h.:..:e=-:o::..:b=.=s..::e:..:r-=v-=e:..:r~----1.:....:~ 
the peace corps worker in walsh 
by mary ellen mcandrews 

From medical technology to the .Middle Ages seems like quite a jump. Yet for Joanne Szafran, graduate student working for her Ph.D in history, here at Notre Dame, it all fell into place quite logically. 
Upon graduating from high school in 1958, Joanne decided to become a medical technician. So for the next six years she lived at home and worked in the laboratory of St. Joseph's Hospital, in Lowell, Massachusetts. 
During the early sixties, the time of Kennedy's administration, the Peace Corps was a new program getting favorable press. The lofty appeal to serve, along with her realization that as a medical technician she could be of service, aroused her interest. Her desire to go overseas and her Polish background, which had given her an awareness of different cultures, were also factors. So she applies for service in the Peace Corps. 
Late in 1964, Joanne received word that she was being invited to train as a medical technician for Thailand. 
Ironically, the first ten weeks of training for hot, sunny Thailand were spent in wintery February at Northern Illinois University at DeKalb. Registered in the Rice Hotel, downtown, the trainees walked each day to campus, a requirement in­tended to help the Americans to get in shape. Part of the day was spent learning how to teach a basic medical technology course and the other five hours were given to intensive instruction in the Thai language. 
At the end of ten weeks, Joanne was approved to continue training and so flew to Hawaii to begin the second phase. The trainees spent ten days in Waipio Valley, on the Island of Hawaii, 'roughing it'. This time, the habitat was closer to their in­tended destination, being similar to Thailand in topography and in climate. 
uncommon glimpses 
They lived in wood houses built on stilts, 
slept on the floor under 'musty khaki 
colored mosquito nets' which according to 
Joanne were far worse than the ones they 
would use in Thailand. They learned how 
to catch and prepare their own food, 
meanwhile continuing to study. 
The 'highlight' of the stay was an 
overnight in which all trainees were 
required to participate. They each 
gathered up a sleeping bag and some food, 
hiked to a certain spot in the valley and 
spent about a day there by themselves. 
Joanne noted that the experience was 
similar to her first nights in Thailand. She 
explained: 
'You are in a strange country. Your bed 
isn't comfortable and you don't know how 
to orient yourself toward north, south, east 
or west and you really feel quite alone.' 
In the midst of those two weeks, Joanne was notified that she had been accepted. She learned she would be assigned to a lab in a provincial hospital but as· to the -location, that she would find out when she 
got to Bangkok. 
The plane landed in Bangkok at three in 
the afternoon. It was May 1965. Joanne 
was greeted by Thais, arms filled with 
flowers, representatives from the Peace 
Corps and ninety-nine degree heat. The 
heat, for a girl who was used to a New 
England climate, was something she 
would never get used to_. Itwas on the ride downtown to the hotel, noticing all the street signs and billboards printed in Thai, that it dawned upon her that she was at home no longer, that she was in a strange country. This struck again when she went to turn on the air conditioning in her room only to discover that her superior had had the unit shut off, another move to ac­custom the Americans to their new surrounding. Coping with the situation as best they knew how, Joanne and her companions rushed out to the nearest air conditioned bar where. they spent the remainter of the afternoon. beer in hand. 
Thaitfnd, is divided into four areas: the North, the Northeast, the Central Plain and the South. Lam pang, in the north near Burma is a hilly area and greener than most of the country, all of which suffers from lack of rain. ·Besides feeling that it was the prettiest area, Joanne also ex­plained that its forests of teakwood as well as its rice and tin help to make it the wealthiest part of the country. 
Lampang, with a population of ap­proximately 36,500 was a bustling city, its street slways filled with bicycles, especially the three-wheeled type, which were driven either by 'taxi' drivers or by vendors who carried their wares in the wagon attached to the back. Few cars were to be seen, maybe three or four American models, but the lumber trucks, carrying the logs from the forests were always roaring through. 
There were two main markets in the center of town to which the villagers, bringing their farm produce would come every morning at about four. The buildings, none of which were over two stories high, housed businesses, restaurants, movie houses and Lam pang's three nightclubs. 
Once past the center of town, ox-drawn carts, farmers with their water buffalo and lots of stray dogs were common sights. Joanne pointed out that it is against Buddhist teaching to kill any living thing so stray animals were readily apparent. 
The hospital in which Joanne was to work lay ten minutes northeast of the city. The hospital was surrounded by the homes in which the doctors and their families lived and the series of single apartments where Joanne and her students would live. Joanne's apartment, a simple structure consisted of an open ground floor which included the ktchen, a room that had no refrigerator and whose stove was a hot­plate. It was almost inevitable that some tension would be felt on both sides and that Joanne would feel frustrated. Yet she did become very close to a girl name Galayanee. Her father, a radiologist, was the director of the hospital in which Joanne worked. 'Aung' as she was commonly called and Joanne did a lot together. It 
(continued on page 12) 


a room musty with old books 
by bill murphy 

"On the third floor of the University Library, in a room musty with old books, a dozen scholars are grappling with an 
unusual problem. They are devising ways to prove that much of the good in mediaeval life can be used in modern Christian living.'' 
The above quote is from an article in the February, 1953 Scholastic, in which the author, Robert Haine, is trying to describe the work of the fledgling Mediaeval In­stitute. The University Library has since become the Architecture Building and the Institute has since taken psssession of the seventh floor of the Memorial Library. 
The aim of the Institute in 1953, ac­cording to Haine's article was to become the center of mediaeval scholarship in the United States. Professor Astric Gabriel, retiring director of the Institute, believes that a portion of this aim has been ac­complished. 
"There is no other facility in the U.S., accordil'li to Gabriel, 'with a collection to match the Institute's in the area of Mediaeval intellectual history.'' 
Interest in the tradition o£ the Middre Ages at Notre Dame antedated the actual founding of the Mediaeval Institute. The Reverend PhilipS. Moore, C.S.C., Ph.D., collected important records of the Middle Ages which he called 'instruments de travail' for mediaeval research while he was here at the University. 
The Mediaeval Institute was established 
in 1946 by the Reverend J. O'Donnell, 
observer features 
The Features Page of the Observer sdrves as a vehicle for conveying news of entertainment and cultural importance to members of Notre Dame. Contributions include reviews of books, concerts, records, theatrics, as well as creative writings and occasional columns. Most featwes are solicited, however, all contributions are welcomed. For further informations contact J.R. Baker at the Observer office, 1715. 
C.S.C., who was then president of the University. The Reverend Gerald B. Phelan, former president of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, was appointed its first director. Phelan returned to Canada in 1952 and Professor Astrik Gabriel, Corresponding Fellow of the French Academia des Inscriptions, Paris, and former professor at the University of Budapest, was appointed the new di~ector, and the Reverend Joseph Gavrin, C.S.C., assistant director. 
The Mediaeval Institute intends to promote the understanding of traditional cultures of the western world. For this purpose the Institute has two main tasks. The fist is to publish previously unedited mediaeva. works and to prepare new critical editions of mediaeval works which might be printed incorrectly . The second task of the Institute is to train young scholars in the methods of the scientific historical study of the Middle Ages. 
According to Institute Director Gabriel, the long tradition of Christian culture is still consciously or unconsciously a vital factor in the day to day life of many people. "The problems of modern 
c1vilizations,"statedGabriel," are recurrent problems which were also present in Mediaeval civilization. The purpose of the Institute, then, is to integrate teachinj;( and research in the mediaeval field to help us understand our tradition and therefore to comprehend the roots of modern civilization." 
The Mediaeval Institute is a department of the Graduate School of Studies. The Institute offers courses in the history of thought (philisophical, artistic and theological), life (secular and religious), letters (Latin and Ye~acular), science and the culture of the M1ddleAges, leading to the degrees of Master of Mediaeval Studies (M.S.M.) and Doctor of Mediaeval Studies (D.S.M.). 
Students who apply to the Institute should have a good background in Latin, French and German. Many former students were also former seminarians, according to Professor Gabriel, accounting for their good backgrounds in Latin. The Institute presently has four students. 
The students study the Middle Ages ; as a 
channel through which ancient Greek, 
Roman and Hebrew culture flowed into 
our times. "The investigation," said 
Gabriel, 'is neither sentimental nor 
emotional but scinentific. The students 
study the writing of great minds that 
remodeled and carried to us the knowledge 
of the past." , 
The student in the Institute has every 
facility for doing scholarly research 
quickly and efficiently. An excellent 
reference library with important source 
material on mediaeval authors is at the 
disposal of the student. This library and 
carried to us the knowledge of the past." 
The student in the Institute has every 
facility for doing scholarly research 
quickly and efficiently. An excellent 
reference library with important source 
material on mediaeval authors is at the 
disposal of the student. This library houses 
the best collection in the U.S. on the history 
of mediaeval education and universities. 
The Institute also has a special microfilm 
room. The Institute's microfilm collection 
<due largely to the efforts of Director 
Gabriel) contains very rich source 
material on the works of mediaeval 
authors and the history of mediaeval 
universities preserved in manuscript form 
in 35 major European cities. In the 
University's Rare Book Library the' In­
stitute has gathered a great number of 
original tests, termed incunabula, of 
Mediaveal and Renaissance philosophers 
and theologians, as well as several twelfth­
to-fifteenth century manuscripts for use in 
their studies. 
"Ours is an age of images," said Gabriel, "similar to the Middle Ages as evidenced in their great amount of iconography. The Institute has gathered a collection of photo 
illustration of such icons and illuminated 
manuscript to help the student reconstruct 
Mediaeval life.'' This project was made 
possible by a grant from the Samuel H. 
Kress Foundation. 
The prize achievement of the Institute is 
the microfilming of the entire manuscript 
and archival collection of the Ambrosiana 
Library in Milan, Italy. The Ambrosiana is 
one of the most precious libraries in 
Europe. With the help of Giovani Cardinal Montini (now Pope Paul VI), and a grant in aid from the National Science Foun­dation, the mammoth microfilming project was started in 1962 and only recently completed. 
The manuscripts photographed relate to science, philosophy, religion and literature. Among the treasures in the Ambrosiana are: the illustrattld Iliad of Homer dating from the third of fourth century; the Vergil with notes by the poet Petrarch; manuscripts of canonical New Testament writings compiled around 170 A.D.; Hebrew, Greek and Syric codies; autographed writing of Thomas Aquinas, Galileo, Rubens and Goethe; and manuscripts relevant to the history of medicine and surgery. The Institute has also obtained a reproduction of the 25,000 subject-card catalogue of the Ambrosiana­the only copy of this catalogue outside of the actual library. 
Although no concrete agreement has ben reached yet, Professor Gabriel announced that he is now negotiating with a certain country behind the Iron Curtain for the rights to microfilm their Mediaeval and Renaissance holding. "If this works stated Gabriel, "Notre Dame will be the only place in the free world where these manuscripts will be available to scholars." 
Gabriel also announced that if funds can be found a project wil be undertaken to make ektachrome color plates of the illuminated manuscripts, deisgns, drawing and engraving of the Ambrosiana collectionl The purpose of this, according to Gabriel, is because ektachrome plates can reproduced with much greater clarity then a normal slide, thus, publications with such drawings, designs, :md engravings would be of better quality. 
Professor Gabriel commented on the validity of the study of Mediaeval work sin; our modern world:"Every man should be aware of his tradition and roots. It will help him to reevaluate our present stan­dards andideas.lf we find a workable idea from Mediaeval study we should revive it. The inverse is also true. If we find an idea which is Mediaeval and unusable in our 
;. time, then we should eliminate it." 

r 
Wednesday, August 21, 1974
12 the observer ·' 
. --y­
' 
(continued from page 11) 
grew to be a real friendship. 'We were able to share the little things, 
' \ 
sharing your ups and downs, as
'l 
well as having fun together.' 
After Joanne had been in Thailand for one year, she went on a one monthe vacation. She and Janet Brown, a friend who was a teacher in a neighboring town, traveled to Hong Kong and the Phillipines. 
The vacation marked kind of a turning point for Joanne. Something had clicked. She ex­plained: 
'After the trip I felt I had ad­:~ 
justed. Things went smoother. I 
' 
II 
I 
( 
l 
I 
realized that my experience was a two way thing and that I could learn a lot from them. I saw myself around them and I had felt one step removed. As a westerner, I was apt to rush into things, always wanted to get things done. I had to
' 
put the brakes on ... their culture was three thousand years old.' 
Joanne related how she would ride downtown on her bike intending to do five errands and end up returning to the hospital having only done two, hot and exhausted and wanting only a bath and a rest. 'I had to learn to relax-the pace was slow there .. .' 
Being away from it for awhile seemed to help Joanne to recognize her limitations. Feeling that things were going better, she continued to partake of Thai culture' and really valued what she was learning from it. She too took flowers to honor Buddha and studied meditation for awhile. She learned the folk dances and took part in the ceremonial dinners. When the King and Queen of Thailand visinted Lampang to open a dam. Joanne was among the welcoming committee. 

Joanne's course ended in Oc­tober 1966 and she spent the last four months of her stay visiting her nurses who had been assigned to work in various hospitals in nor­thern Thailand. 
Joanne at one time thought of extending her stay _ beyond the 
from med tech to walsh 
'I don't know-1 realize what I learned. You get involved in a project. You absorb their culture ... You find out there are 
ways of doing things that you don't change in two years.. .' 
Still , Joanne's reflections end only on an optimistic note. Those two years were very important to her and there is nothing more she would like to do than to be able to return and spend a summer there. Right now Joanne is in the middle of working on her doctorate. But maybe in two years when it is all over she will reward herself with a return trip to Thailand. She holds that hope in the back of her mind and her eyes alight, she tells me, 
'I can see myself getting in from Bangkok.. .getting off the 5:20 train in Lampang, going to see the director ... ' 
normal two years, but then she decided she wanted to go to college. Her supervisor, visiting her frrom Bangkok, had suggested the idea and Joanne agreeing had followed it up. She sent away to the United States for catalogs, took her college boards in Bangkok, and in the spring of 1967, received her acceptance from Merrimac College. 
When it came time to leave, she was ready. She had conditioned herself one month ahead. 
'I refused to think I'd never be back so it could never be that sorrowful ... At that point I was ready to come back to the United States. I was through with my 
project.  I  wanted  to  do  more  
traveling. I was  thinking  about  
school.'  

The Thais sent Joanne off at the train station in Lampang, armed with gifts and flowers. She then traveled four months throughout the Middle East and Europe before returning home. First she went to 
Joanne brought back some beautiful · gifts: a handpainted teakwood vase her students hat:! given her, yards of Thai silk, earthenware pottery and temple rubbings she had done herself. Besides those things she reflected on the intangibles that had been 
gotten  from  her  two  year  ex-.  
perience.  Joanne  said  she  had  
really  wanted  to  be  known  for  

herself and happily she felt that she had. 
'The Peace Corps was an avenue to get there but it was just that, a means only.. .Ibet going back now I'd be a lot more myself and a lot more open ... I've had two years with them and I know they're my friends ... ! have such a love for the Thais and Thailand. They were so good to me.' 
To the answer to the always asked question of did she think she did any good; Joanne responded: 
WEEKEND JOB 

Indiana's. Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. 
Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $60. 
CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189 

Singapore and Ceylon. From there she flew to Bombay, India and from March until the middle of 
CAMPUS VIEWJune, rode overland by bus through the Middle East. She crossed on a ferry to Greece and then made her way up through Italy and then to London. Northern 
APARTMENTS
Europe, Sweden, Denmark, and so I on was her last stop. On July 16 her father's birthday ' she flew home to · 
One &Two Bedroom Furnished Apartments
Massachusetts. 
Joanne entered Merrimac College and enrolled in their 
Some Ready For Occupancy. Others Under

liberal arts program. She had decided to study history. Her experince in Thailand had had a profound effect on her and she 
Construction · All Will Be. Completed By Sept. 30 
explained: 
'I couldn't confine myself to a test tube ... man is sick and he always will be. I had experienced 
WE WILL HOUSE YOU TEMPORARILY UNTIL 
that phase of man. Now it was time 
for the historical man.' 
YOUR UNIT IS READY. 
. 
For Information, Call 277-0911
YEARBOOK
i 
Or' Visit Stone ridge Apartments 
( 
THE DOME 
On Ironwood, Just North Of
I
( I '( 
The Indiana Toll Road,
( 
Staff Needed 
I) 
Between 10:00 And 6:00 Daily.
t 
{Especially Freshmen!) 
~ 
DEPARTMENTS:
~ 
I 
( (I
(. 

Sports
( 
( 
( 
Student Life 
-~ 
Seniors 
~ 
Organizations
I 
( 

Photography 
TWO BEDROOM PLAN
CALL 2111 OR 7524 


Wednesday, August 28, 1974 the observer 13 
LEARN TO­
SKY DIVE 

MARSHAL COUNTY PARACHUTE CENTER 3 MILES NORTH OF EDWARDSBURG MICHIGAN ON M~62 

CLASSES START AT 10:30 A.M. IND. TIME AT THE MCPC AIRPORT 
COST: $125  INCLUDES:  GROUND SCHOOL  
COMPLETE EQUIPMENT  
10 JUMPS  
$60  INCLUDES :  GROUND SCHOOL  
COMPLETE EQUIPMENT  
1 JUMP  



~ 
I I j 
l I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
j 
•I 

! c •
• 

! 
• 
l ~ 
~ 


------~-=--,(......,.. ... _, __...... ~--~··· .-. 


~­~~· ..!1~4~~th~e:_:::o..::b:.::s:..::•:..:.r...:v...:•....:..r_.~---We_dnesdli,_'_Au_g_ust_21_,7m~" 
:.') CharlesLindberghdies atage 72 
Honolulu, -UPI-Charles A. · radio speeches and activities in him with medals. new tricks in high altitudeliitude the idea of enlusting Lindbergh's Lindbergh, 72, the "Lone Eagle" opposition to war moves of the The Lindbergh came home on an flying and conductio stratosperere secret report almost three years who flew alone across the Atlantic American government ,a. center of Americna warship to a rousing experiments that helped make the earlier. 

', 

fierce controversy. 
FEW HAVE BEEN the in­
stances in world history when the popularity of a world figure has undergone a greater change in a shorter time. From a man with no enemies, he became-widely hated, both in the counry and abroad, by those who favored American aid to Britain and American intervention 
in the war. 
Lindbergh was born in Detroit on 
Feb. 4: 1902. His father was 
Charles A. Lindbergh, who later 
became a representative in 
Congress form Minnesota and 
attained moderate fame as a farm 
leader and as an opponent to 
United States participation in 
Work War I. 
Young Lindbergh spent his 
boyhood on a Minnesota farm. He 
took up mechanical engineering at 
the University of Wisconsin. 
AFTER TWO YEARS at the Army school and anoth er in Army service Lindbergh went back to the middle west and became an em­ployee of the the Robertson Air­craft Corp. 
He was an air mail piolot in 1925 
when he received a commision as 
a second · lieutenant in the Air 
Corps reserve, Among pilots he 
acquired a reptuation for daring 
and for ability, but he was entirely 
unknown to the public when he 
decided to make a flight to Paris, 
He received backing in St. Louis 
and rsigned for the air mail service 
Feb. 13, 1927, to supervise con­
struction of the plane at San 
Diego.,Cal. 
It was not until he headed for 
Europe, and came sweeping down 
out of the skies over New York on 
his record making one stop flight 
for San Diego that he captured 
the fancy of the nation. 
HIS FLIGHT was mathematical 
and precise. He jumped into the cockpit of his plane at Roosevelt Field the morning of May 20, 1927, with a grin on his face and th~ words, "Well I am off." He landed at LeBourget Field, Paris, 33 hours and 29 minutes later to smile and utter the simple declarative sentence, "I'm Charles Lind­bergh." 
The letters of introduction with which he had equipped himself were not needed,· for the whole world knew by then his boyish face and his name. 
FRANCE TOOK the birdman in its arms and, thru, its president and other representatives, bestowed on him its highest honors. His arrivals in Belgium and England were greeted with the same ardor and turrult, and the kings of thsese countries deocrated 
.~~======--~--~~--------~ 
welcome conceded to have been the greatest ever accorded to an American. He was greed by President Coolidge and decorated by him at ceremonies that rivaled any ever seen in the capital. 
.. WHEN THE war which he fought so hard to prevent that he sacrificed his position ans the nation's number one hero, came at last with the diving Japanese bombers at Pearl harbor on Dec.7, Lindbergh issued a statement pleading for nitional unity and calling attention. to the need of building up our war strength. 
Acting on his own advice, Lind­bergh immediately volunteered to return to active duty in the Army 
Air  Force  and  offered  his  
techniclal  services  to  the  War  
Department.  

In 1944 he was in the Gilbert Islands instructing Navy pilots 
THE NOTRE DAME 
CHORAL DEPARTMENT 
OFFERING THE BEST IN MUSIC!!! 
GLEE CLUB I CHORAI.E CHAPEL CHOIR UNIVERSITY CHORUS 
(NO AUDITIONNECESSARY) 

ALL AVAILABLE FOR 1 HR. CREDIT OR NON-CREDIT 
SIGN NOW FOR AUDITIONTIME FOR CHORALE 
AND CHAPEL CHOIR RM 247 o·sHAG OR CALL 6211. 6352. 3350 
WED. AUG. 28 3 TO 4:30 AND 6:30 TO 9:30 THURS. AUG. 29 3 TO 4:30 AND 6:30 TO 9:00 
UNIVERSITY CHORUS OPEN HOUSE MON. SEPT. 2 7: 00 PM 242 0'9PG 
GLEE CLUB CALL 6352 
SINGING AT ITS BEST-­REHEARSALS...AT. THEIR LIVELIEST 
• "' ·,' •• # 
p-47 Thunderbolt top dog in the war over Europe. 
At long last, late, in 1949, newsmen finally learned the inside story of Lindbergh's pre-war patriotic activities. It was dis­closed that the United States Air Force owed more to Lindbergh for its development into a modernized fighting unity than to any other individual. 
It was learned that President Roosevelt summoned members of the WarDepartmentappropriations subcommittee to the White House in the winter of 1939-40 and told them of receiving Lindbergh's secret report almost three years !earlier. 
According to the military story, 
FUNNY FEST '74 THURSDAY AUGUST TIME: 8-12 P.M. PLACE: REGINA NORTH 
OUNGE & COURTYAR 
SPONSORED BY MC ORIENTATION COMMITTE 
GAMES, BALLOONS, 
FUN FOR ALL 

MUSIC BY WIND 
According to the military story, the idea of enlisting Lindbergh's services orginatedwith Maj. Truman Smith, then military attache to Berlin. Smith had tried every way he knew to get in­formation on German air strenght. 
Finally, he suggested to High Wilson, career diplomat and then ambassador to Germany, tha Lindbergh be asked to help. 
Smith was aware that Mashal Goering head of the Nazi air force, was a IJ.Ompous, blustering man who might seek to impress the world renowned Lone Eagle. 
(continued on page 19) 
~ 
\ 
f ')
l .
., 
' 
f 
~ 
~ ;\
' ' 
t~~ 
'·\ 
\~ 
. ') 
\~ 
·~~ 
l\ -. 
") 
i~ 

in 1927, died yesterday. 
Lindbergh died on the island of Maui, his Physician, Dr. Milton Howell, announced. 
Howell said the famed flier died of a· malignant tumor of the lymphatic system. 
Howell said Lindbergh spent the last weeks of his life planning his own funeral. He was buried at a simple, private ceremony late today. 
Lindbergh had been under treatment for the malignancy for several weeks at the Colum­biaPresbyterian Medical Center in New York City. 
He returned to the island of Maui last week. When told he could go home to die, Lindbergh said he did not wish to go to his Connecticut home, but wanted to return to Maui because "that is my home." 
Howell said Lindbergh_ had arranged for a little cottage by the seas as his death home. The cottage was located at Hana on the southern tip of the island of Maui wher-e the Llndberghs had Maintained a home for several years. 
Howell said Lindbergh's wife, Anne and a son, Land, were with him at the time of death. 
Howell said Lindbergh made no final statement but said "his final theme was that he would like for his actions in coming to Hana in having a simple funeral to be in itself a constructive act." 
There were three distince phases in the life of Lindbergh. 
The first was as the most noted 
aviator of his time and as an in­
ternationally acclaimed American 
hero. This phase began when he 
made his nonstop flight to Paris 
from New York in May, 1927, and 
continued thru several years of 
good will flights and activities for 
the advancement of aviation 
during which he received honors 
from his own and foreign countries 
such as never before were given a 
private citizen. 
The second was as the central 
and tragic figure in one of the most 
dastardly crimes of the century­
the kidnaping for ransom and the 
murder of infant first born son-a 
crime which evoked horror 
throughout the world as his 
acheivements in aviation 
previously had stirred the world's 
imaginaton and admiration. This 
phase began with the kidnaping on 
the night of March 1, 1932, and 
ended with the execution of Bruno 
Richard Hauptmann more than 
four years later. 
The third phase was as a factor 
in American and world affairs 
during which he became a zealous 
crussader against involvement of 
the United States in a foreign war. 
From a position of world wide 
eminence which had gained him 
the status of international 
emissary of American good will, 
he became • thru his nationwide 

... ',•,t' "'

' ·.t .i I' 


Wednesday, August 28, l974 ---·the observer 15 
U.N.Secretary confident ofpeace 
LONDON (UP!)-U.N. Secretary Genral Kurt Waldheim flew back to New York Tuesday from wideranging Cyprus peace soundings with little prospect of an early solution but confident the conflict will be solved by negotiation and not by war. 
Waldheim conferred lengthily with British Foreign Minister David Ennals during a two hour stopover at London's Heathrow airport on his arrival from Athens. He also held talks with government leaders in Ankara and Cyprus. 
"We have not been able to overcome the existing dif­ficulties," he told a news con­ference. 
He said that the governments 
Frosh parent collapses from heart attack 
, Donald Bohlinger, Sr. of 43 W. Balaban, New York, New York, died of an apparent heart attack last Sunday after collapsing by the east side of Breen-Phillips Hall at 
1:30 p.m. He immediately was taken to St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend acompanied by his freshman son, Donald Jr. and died at 2:12 
p.m. shortly after arrival. He was thirty three years old. 
Bohlinger was accompanied by 
three sons at the time of his attack, 
Donald Jr. from Grace Hall, and 
two younger sons. A number of 
people were at the site to assist in 
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and 
a heart massage. 
The deceased had driven his son 
form NY to participate in orien­
tation activities. Mrs. Bohlinger 
was unable to make the journey for 
the East and remained at home ·. 
Bohlinger's sons were driven home 
by an RA from Grace, Jim 
Gresser . 
immediately concerned in the date for the U.N. Cyprus 1 conflict will determine how and in peacekeeping force may have to be what form peace negotiations will revised in the light of the changes . eventually be held. He did not which have taken place on the expect an immediate solution. island since it was first set up.
"I have the firm impression that At present a U.N. force of 4,000 all governments with whom I have men is facing an army of 30,000 or discussed this question have the more Turkish troops. "You can't intention to solve this problem expect us to confront that army; through negotiations and not this is not the purpose of peace through new hostilities," he said. keeping," he added. 
Waldheim indicated the man-"We need a new approach to this 
'Right' whale discovered sw1mm1ng wrong course 
Southampton, NY, UPI -Long Beach Lil, a rare 20 ton "Right" whale, apparently lost her sense of direction Tuesday in her effort to swim around the tip of Long Island rejoin her herd in the northern seas. 
A fisherman reported seeing the 35 foot mammal Tuesday morning in Shinnecock Inlet near Southampton, the same general area in which Lil has floundered for a t least two days. 
Marine biologists believe Lil somehow became separated fonn her herd and is instinctively trying to migrate north but finds tbe 118 mile long stretch of Long Island in her way. 
She was first spotted of f Manasquan, NJ, in July, and subsequently was seen making her way eastward along the bottom of Long Island. Lifeguards, assuming her a female, named her 'Long Beach Lil" when she passed their way. 
The whale was last spotted of F East Hampton, some 20 miles from Long Island's eastern tip and the fast-moving Gulf Stream that could speed her north. But Lil 
apparently reversed course and­returned to Shinnecock Inlet. 
Dr. John Welker, director of Long Island University's Southampton College marine sciences program, said he saw a long gash on the whale's back when he spotted Lil from a boat Sunday. 
Welker theorized the gashes probably were cuased by a ship's propeller. 
Lil has been observed by Coast Guard crewmen, fishermen, swimmers and various scientists, including a special team from the Smithsonian Institute in Washington. 
Experts have identified her as a "right" whale whose herd is probably well north of Maine or 
. Nova Scotia by now. Right whales are seen in­frequently along the East coast and are now considered rare. The name comes from 18th century whalers who valued the breed for its large quantity of whale oil andnconsidered it a "right catch." The breed is an endangered species under federal law. Anyone caught harassing one faces a possible $10,000 fine and a year in jail. 
ANNOUNCING 
GLEE CLUB 
AUDITIONS 
CONCERT••• T.V. APPEARANCES ••• RECORDINGS••• SOCIAL BLASTS••• EUROPEAN TOURS ••• SMOKERS••• MIXERS ••• NOTRE DAME SPffiiT••• · 
FRATERNITY AND MORE!!! 
SEPTEMBER 3 &4, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY BEGINNING 1:30 P.M. 
call6352 OR SIGN UP OUTSIDE RM. 243 O'SHAG. 
N.D. DEPT. OF MUSIC 
new situation... the issue will have to come before the Security Council," he said. 
In Athens, he said the Greek government told him that it is opposed to a partition of Cyprus into two federated states. 
In Ankara, Waldheim said the Turks had assured him they want an independent and sovereign Cyprus, but with two different local administrations. 
Britain underscored ,again in Tuesday's talks that is stands for a sovereign, independent Cyprus and favors ealy peace talks in the tripartite framework of Turkey, Greece and Britain. This also is the view of the United States. 
Greece, however,_ has accepted in principle the Soviet proposal for an international conference with the participation of the 15 mem­bers of the Security Council. 


..~l. Foreign Car Parts Co. 
~Parts & accessories for imported car for all makes at lowest prices.
llte.ional Distributor 
General Store 
• 
Water Beds 

• 
LEATHER GOODS 


·MAGAZINES 
·Newspapers •ClOTHING ·Posters 
• S·track Tapes
·CANDlES ·Jewelry·Cards 
•INCENSE 
•Rugs 
•
Tapestry 

• 
Bedspreads 

• 
PIPES 


·PAPERS 
•lites 
•NOVElTIES 
·BOOKS 
113 West 
MonroeSt 
ONE BLOCK WEST OF THE NEW POST OFFICE 



,.Wednesday, A...... & 1974
16 the observer 
UPI News briefs • • • • 
Four 12-year Adolf Hitler and started his own 
"Black Front" opposition
0 ld r u naways movement. 
still missing 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Four 12­year old girls, two from New Jersey and two from Long Island, were still missing Tuesday, three days after the running away from home. 
AuthOrities in Rigdefield Park, 
N. J. ~id they received an ap­parently false report shortly befor~ noon that Denise Mayo of Ridgefield Park and Her cousin, Angela Mayo of Saddle Brook, Saddle Brook had been seen returning to the Garden State. 
The spokesman said the search for the Mayo cousins, whom authorities identified as runaways, was switched to New York after several persons said they saw the girls board a New York bound Saturday night bus. 
A 13-state alarm was issued for the m Sunday in the wake of the still unsolved sex slaying of two other Bergen countyr girls less than two weeks ago. 
On Long Island, Lt. John Brennan of the Suffolk County Police Youth Servies division said J,.ynne Ann Kakki and Lorraine 
~emba, both of Babylon, were reported missing by their parents at 6:45 a.m. Saturday. 
When Hitler came to power, Strasser went into exile, first in Vienna and Prague, and later in Canada where he reamined until returning to West Germrnay in 1953, to found the rightwing nationlist German Socialist Union three years later. 
Born Sept. 10, 1897, in Wind­sheim, Lower Franconia, Strasser served as an officer in World War I and later took part in the Kapp Datsch, the abortive right-wing rebellion in Berlin of 1920. 
Active as a Social Democrat in the early 1920's, he broke with his party over its refusal to support nationliz~tion of the coal and steel industries, and jointed the Nazi party, to become editor-in-chief of all Hitler's news publications. 
Following a personal squabble with Hitler in 1930, he founded the opposition Balck Movement. He later moved to Vienna and Prague to agitate against Hitler over a secret radio and earn the wrath of propaganda minister Josef Goebbels, who called him "Hitler's enemy No. 1." 
After being allowed to return to Germany, he made his political · comebakc in June 1956 


He said Lynne left,~ not~ tell!ng establishing the German Socialist her a~ren~ that she w.asn t domg Union. The party floundered at the anythmg nght and dec1ded to run polls and fiaally dissolved. away." He said Lorraine, who did not leave a note, "just decided to Strasser's name hit the 
take off with her friend." 
H•tl I N
1 e r S 0. enemy dI•eS 
in Munich 
MUNICH, Germany (UPI) -Otto Strasser, tl_le amn whom tm!.Nazis 
at one hme named "Hitler's enemy No. 1" died Tuesday in hi~ Munich home, he was 77. 
The retired economist and former Socialist leader was a leading publicist for the Nazi party. in the arly days of the Weimar republic of the 1920's. In 1930 however, Strasser repudiated 
headlines once more in 1969 when aJHight State Court ruled he was not 
entitled to retirement benefits because, although he was a rival and enemy of Hitler, he was never an opponent of National Socialism 
A'AA says no 
problems l.or
T1 
holiday 
WASHINGTON <UPI> "'-The nation's motorists should have little trouble keeping their gasoline tanks full during the Labor Day weekend, the American Autmobile Association said Tuesday. 
TheAirForceROIC CollegeProgramhas3 things toofferthatother college programsdon't. 
1. 
Scholarships. 

2. 
$100 monthly allowance. 

3. 
Flying lessons leading 


to jet training. Enroll inAirForce ROTC. 
Contact Captain Shepherd At Building 5 No. 6634 
PUT IT ALL TOGETHER IN AIR FORCE ROTC 
. ." . ... 
. If I i 
The AAA said it has checked 4,881 gas stations in every state except Alsaka and found the less than one station in 100 was out of fuel. The AAA also said the 81 per cent of the stations contaced remain open on weeknights, 75 per cent pump gas on Saturdays and 66 per cent on Sundays; 
Accordfing to· the AAA, the average price of regualr grade gas has remained at 56 cents a gallwt for 14 cons~utive weeks while premium grade fuel has sold for 60 cents a gallwt for the last 11 weeks. 
Frenchman 
performs in Central Park 
NEW YORK <UPI) -Stuntman 600-foot rope 80-feet over the park's Belevedere Lake with all New Yorkers invited to attend. 
Manhattan District Attorney Richard H, Kuh ordered Petit to "entertain the people of New York" in agreement for dropping disorderly conduct and other charges stemming from Petit's unauthorized Aug. 7 walk between the twin towers of the World Trade Center, the world's second talles building. 
Gdner sails 
Atlantic 
FALMOUTH, England (UPI) ­When Bob Fainer, the son of a Hillsdale, N.J. couple set out to cross the Atlantic 60 days ago in a 22 foot sailboat, Richard M. Nixon was President of the United States. When his voyage ended Monday in Falmouth, England, Gerald R. Ford was the White House oc­cupant. 
"He didn't even know we have a new President," his mother, Mrs. Harold Gainer, said in her Hillsdale home after talking with her son on the telephone. 
Gainer, 21, left Wickford, R.I. 60 days ago in a sailboat with no radio to cross the Atlantic to England. For 45 days he was not sighted or heard from. 
Crew members from the Quenn Elizabeth 2 ocean liner sighted Gainer last Tuesday about 250 miles off the coast of Great Britain. 
Upon his arrival in Falmouth, Gainer said he felt fit, but hungry after his "textbook perfect" voyage. 
Phillipe Petit, a Frenchman or-----------------.....;,-------.. dered to "entertain the people of TONY'S SHOE SHOP 
Nes York.' after he walked a tightrope betweenb the to~ers of UICK SERVICE& REASONABLE PR the World Trade Center, said he FREE PENCILS 
will fulfill his obligation on Wed­nesday in Central Park. NVENIENTLY LOCATED Petit, a 25-year old "street en-NOW IN BADIN HALL
tertainer." said he would walk a 

* Four expert barber/stylists 
* 
Complete line of RK hair core products 

* 
New customers a·lways welcome 


*'Call now for an appointment

the Windiammer 1637 Lincoln Way West 232-6622 
ELCOME BACK STUDENTS! 

· STOP IN AND SEE OUR COMPLETE STOCK OF ALBUMS· 
POPULAR 
COUNTRY WESTERN JAZZ 
SOUL 
REGULAR $5.98 
-
6.98 
­

7.98 
­


9.98 ­
12.98 ­

~ 
3.99 4.99 5.99 6.99 8.99 
PIPES TAPES 
PAPERS LEATHER 

1500 S. MICHIGAN MON.-SAT. SUNDAY 10 A.M.-8 P.M. 12-6 P.M. 
1 t I • 'o I t I. >I o I • f f ".I I • I" . 
PHONE 
287-0584 



Wednesday, August 21, 1974 
LaFortune renovation progressing 
Editor's Note: This article appeared in the August 24 issue of the Observer in different form. 
Because of technical errors, this story by Copy Editor Jeanne Murphy is being reprinted. 
by Jeanne Murphy Copy Editor 
Renovation in LaFortune is extensive, encompassing areas used by students most frequently. According to Fr. David Schlaver, director of student activities, completion of the building is estimated for the beginning of the fall term next year. 
Last year the Board of Trustees allotted $250,000 for the LaFortune renovation. According to Schlaver, the work in the original plans has already exceeded the amount awarded. 
Renovation of the Rathskellar was not included in the original renovation draft. Yet money can be found for such changes if the Rathskellar is used by student organizations. 
The primary target in the LaFortune renovation was to relocate and rebuild the offices on the second and third floors which house student publications, Student Government and Student Union. 
Schlaver explained that the task of moving all the publications to the third floor and government offices to the second has essen­tially been completed. 
"It is not so much a building or the condition that keeps people away," he continued, "we need more initiative to plan activities." 
The next project involves ex­tending the side stairwells to the third floor while removing the old stairs , thereby allowing more 
estimates that this job will take six to seven weeks before completion. space in certain areas. Schlaver 
What was previously Fiesta Lounge on the second floor is now a common reception area for both Student Government and Student Union and small offices for of­ficials. 
The present lounge furniture wil be distributed throughout the of­fices upstairs. 
No major construction is needed in the Ballroom or the lounge on the first floor . The rooms will be painted, refurnished and redecorated by the end of the fall semester. 
Renovation of the Huddle will be extensive because it involves major construction, Schlaver explained. Plans call for an ad­ditional extending in the back over the pool r09m. To do this, "a revampiiig of. the whole service 
Many que8tions come .into play involving the Huddle, Sclaver commented. For example, what kind of food will be served once 
the renovation is completed? Will the old equipment suffice, or are new utensils needed? 
Another important question is whether the Huddle must be closed during construction. 
Although the funds have been allotted for this project, the Huddle is less busy. 
Schlaver believes that the ser­vice might be cut off for a time, preferably next summer when the 
) \.. Braille Playboy 
Albany, Ore. (AP)-The Al­bany Public Library has placed Playboy magazine on display in Braille. The 2-inch­thidt periodical is part of the library's services for the han­
dicapped.
' ( 
RECORD SAlE!
.::~::;. 

committee is not at the stage for certain and will not ~.drawn up finalizing any plans concerning until a means of ,f~ing is complete renovation. decided and student~ -~luest is 
Ttie Rathakellar is in a "holmng shown. ' ;·, 
pattern", ~verstated, because The last ~ajOr b~ p~_.in no plans.have been made to rebuild LaFortune IS a da~> toQ.m ~ be this room Me would.Jike to set up a used solely by the· :pU~~~-· 
penn;.nent coffee house to en-The dark room will be located ,in courJse more student theoldgovernmentcabinetoffices. organizations to initiate events. Plans have not beeri fwtliied 88 
the expense is much 'inore than Plans for this set-uo are un-pre"!ously _ rnjected. · ....,__W_e..-lciiio__m_e_...-o--S-o_u_t,..h....,B"'"eiiinilidiioillriF•r•o•m-----. 
I' 
THE ROMA 
Your Host Frank Anastasio 

PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD Now Playing: PLEASANT STREET BAND 
_,
Calf 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown 
1 
p. 
1.0 /0 


48 

HANDY HOOKS 
fot p••iou1led boal'd 

ALL. KINOS OF Of.COAATOR lt£M5 
: • "A~D TOOLS 
• 
SUUTI[RS 

• 
SPIWOl.E S 


• PAlt-11" 
• PLAS~1C PANELS 
ElC 
WHITE PIN.E SHELVING BOARD Cuf ilanv war 
ytUViQnl ·:. 
. • riAIW.T iT 
• 
STAl~ ~T 

• 
COV~R.lT 


l lliO 
37¢· 
510. tDA._.O 
WIU,-S P&..aa 
46¢ 
•, ....• '-.. 

-


r 
) \ 

Delta seeks perfection
-\-, 
18 the observer Wednesday, August 28, 1974 
to
.·."'t '!'.' ••., , ....... •. t. ~· ). ,.. " .I ' .' 




WASHINGTON (UPI) -The day has passed when the space agency could be happy with a rocket boasting nine successful satellite launchings out of 10. A case in point is the Delta, a workhorse launcher that began in 1960 as the product of an "interim" marriage of the Air Force 'Thor missile and  management quickly named a high-level committee to see what was going wrong in recent years _woth the rocket that once had 26 of 26 successful flights. Seven more satellites are to be launched by Deltas this year, from Cape Canaveral and Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif., with the  committee said was appropriate considering the days. "The risks to investment, and to NASA's and the nation's prestige, are such that in the committee's judgment, it is no longer ac­ceptable to discuss Delta. . .in terms of a 90 per cent reliability  
the pioneering, trouble-plagued Vanguard rocket. In the succeeding 14 years, 102 models of the Delta have been  next shot set tentatively for late September from Flordia. A Total of 44 Deltas is to fly througfh 1977, including eight carrying com­ goal," the panel said in a report recently made public. "A new philosophy and attitude is needed. According to the  
launched  .  The last Delta laun­ mercial communications satellites  committee's  opinion,  this  
ched, on May 17, developed problems and just barely got its new type, $15 million weather satellite high enough in orbit. Cost-conscious NASA  and 17 carrying spacecraft owened by other nations. The Delta originally was designed to have a 90 per cent success rate, which the NASA  reliability goal should approach 100 per cent. This position is not considered unreasonable in view of the demonstrated success of other NASA achievements.  
Guest House  

Farley readied for occupancy 
resident assistant, Janne Earley. guests of female students if the The Farley Guest House located 5. Standard University parietal number of reservations exceed the in the basement of the hall, will be 
hour regulations apply in the Guest number of available beds in the 
ready for occupancy this basement. ·
Area.
weekend, for female friends of For reservations or any
6. Fee for occupancy is $1.00 perNotre Dame students. Each guest night. questions call: Jeanne Earley at must be registered by a Notre 7. Guests of male students at 7180 , room G-7, between 10:00 ­Dame host at least a couple days in 
Notre Dame have preference over 12:00 pm ~onday thru Thursday~advance. 
The hotel was established last year in the hopes of accomodating 
ELVIS PRESLEY
the large number of female guests visiting the campus every weekend. The is room for thirty In Concert six girls in the basement. 
AT THE ACC 
The following rules govern the 
guest area: Monday September 30 8:30 P.M. 
1. No girl under 17 may be OCTOBER 1 CONCERT COMPLETEL registered in the guest area. 
SOLD OUT!
2. No large group of women may register themselves in the guest 
TICKETS: $10.00, $7.50, $5.00 
area or be registered by one Notre Dame host. 
LIMIT 2 TICKETS PER PERSON 
3. Weekend Guests: Notre Dame hosts are asked to accompany their weekend guests 
w Farley IMPORTANT: 
Hall Guest Area and check them in between 4:00-5:30 and 7:30-9:00 pm on Friday night. Reservations Studmt Tickets Will-Go On Sale will be cancelled if guests are not 
Thursday Aug. 29 At 1:00 P.M. And
checked in by 11:00 pm. Check in time on Saturday can be arranged 
Only Until Friday Aug. 30 At 5:00.
with the resident assistant, Jeanne Earley, 7180. If Any Tickets Rem a in At 5:00 Friday,
Mid-Week Guests: Notre Dame -~ -­students may make arrangements They Will Be. Used To Fill Surplus
for guests who are on campus 
Mail Orders.;
durinJ( the week by contracting the 
1RII 
Once again, Registration Day fell upon the Notre Dame student, and with it came the hustle of collecting the courses needed for the fall semester. Lines formed immediately, as the 6600 plus students found this year's registration as much of a pain in the as last year's. 
welcome new stu ents to 
LOUIE'S BAR 

beer prices unchanged from last year•... great pizza & sandwiches come visit us on notre dame ave lour blocks south ofcam us 
Sunshine Promotions Presents 
Van Morrison 

and Special Guest 
Dave Loggins 
Sunday Sept. 15-7:30P.M. 
Athletic and 
Conwocation Center
NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices: Bleacllers -----------54.80 
MAIL ORDE
Lower Ire•---------~oe Lqt ---------------SUO 
Platftr• ------------SQG
Flotr Seats __________ SUO 
ONLY 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired .. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Van Morrtson. Send to Van Morrison Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 



Wednesct.y, August 21, 19J4 the observer 19 .. 


Ford Hits Housing 
WASHINGTON UPI-President Ford bore down Tuesday on problems of the depressed housing industry, planning for next months economic summit meeting and preparation for his first news conference since assuming the presidency nearly thee weeks ago. 
The session with reporters willl be televised live form the White House beginning at 2:30p.m. EDT Wednesday. 
In a one-hour, 50-minute meetinv with his key economic advisors, Ford hear HD Secretary James T. Lynn paint a bleak picture of the state of the housing 
Dugan Departs 
by Valerie ZurbUss Staff Reporter Professor Dennis Dugan, head of -the Economics department at 
Notre Dame, has left this year to 
be bead of the government 
Economics and Budget Staff in 
Washington D. C. 
This committee analyzes the federal budget. It evaluates the various programs, considered by Congress and their impact, not only economically but socially as well. 
This development is the 
outgrowth of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974. The Congress enacted 
Summer 
Fatalities 
On May 17, two members of the women's crew were involved in a fatal car accident in Emporia, Kansas on the way to the Wichita River Festival. Three other girls and their coach suffered injuries. 
Beth Storey and Boni Burton died when the car they were riding in struck the rear end of a tractor­trailor. Beth Corbin received a broken nose and facial lacerations. Mari Gumble suffered contusions. Jody Gormley received a hairline fractur of her leg. Clete Grahan, women's coach, suffered a con­cussion, hairline fracture of his ankle, and a sprained knee. 
Glee Club Audition 
Auditions for the Glee Club, the Chorale and the Chapel Chorus continue today and tomorrow. Places are also available in the 
University  Chorus  without  a  
required autition.  
The  Glee Club  is  a  group  of  

eighty youn g men who put on two cons 
The Glee Club is a group of 80 young men who put on two con­certs a year and many other ac­tivities. Interested men call 6352 or contact Mike Savine, Craig Spengel, Jeff Brunner, Bill Hilstrom or Paul Shay. 
The newest organization iu the Chorale, a group of mixed voices putting on campus and off-campus concerts. Interested persons may stop by he music department to sign up for autditions. 
Starting its second year tte Chapel Choir sings for the 10+45 mass and university festivities and functions. Stop by the Misic department or call 3350 or 6352. 
People interested in joining the University Chorus which will perform two on-campus concerts may attend the organizational meeting and open house at 7:00 
·.. ·!}.m.·Monftay,'Septemb~r 2~ • • • • • 
industry, which has taken a beating from inflation, high in­terest ratess amd a ; acl pf ,oney to finance mortgages and new con­struction. 
Housing is "one of several areas that are huritngeconomically byt only one of several areas that are hurting 
Housing is one of several areas that are hurting economically byt oonly one of several areas" said White HOuse Press Secretary JJ.F. terHorst, advising reporters not to expect quick announcement of new government action in this sector. 
this law to get thier own in­dependent . capability when analyzing and making tbe government's budget. In the past when a new president was sworn in mid-Jantiary, the legislators just rear•~ to a new budget. Now they :.~~~ to make their own budget \~ecisions and have the analytic capability independent of the Executive Branch. "Since the legislative branch passes the money to finance programs they should have more say in the finances. They're feeling their Watergate oats" Dugan said for idenfifying major budgetary 
I• Lindbergh Dead 
i (continued /rom page 14) 
THIS FIRST radio ialk set a 
tone for the many others which followed, 
During 1940 Lindbergh talked frequently in the interests of peace, appealing to all who believed in building strengh at 
home rather than in war aboroad. In August, Sen. Claude Pepper <D., Fla.> denounced him on the floor of the Snate as "chief of the fifth column in this country." 
In January , 1941, Lindbergh testihea oetore the House foreign affairs committee in opposition to the lend-lease act, and the next month he told the Sean.te foreign affiars committee that the only effect of the lend-lease act would be prolongation of the war.Lind­bergh joined the Americ First 
·" ,\_...-.· .•· :'. 
" ' t. ' ' ' ' ' ' ' • ' a • • • 6 •• •• •• 
~------------~~~~~~~~~~--~--~~ 
Except for bonafide emergen­cies, the administration has in­dicated it will wait until after the s Sept. 27-28 ecqnocic summitt meeting before shifting economic policy. 
As in recent days, the President's schedule included liipolmatic, ceremonial and staff appointments. terHorst acknowledged Ford was stamping his own style on the presidency "as fast as he can and as fast as would be good for the country." 
issues. He finds the job very en­joyable. Dugan bas worked in Washington before. Six years ago 
be was at the Booking Institution 
which is an economics research 
corporation. 
Professor Dugan took this present position in the beginning of August. He has no regrets about leaving Notre Dame. He is on leave form the University for a few years. 
Professor William Leahy will be 
acting chairman of the Economics 
department until a new chairman 
is found. 
Committee in Aoril. 1941. and made his first talk "as amem.ber in Chicall;o April 17, where a huge throng greeted him at the Chicago Arena. The following week at an Americ First rally in New York he said the British had already lost the war and were keeping on only because they expected the help of UnitedStatessoldiers. He asserted that we could not win the war for England, regardless of hwo much assistance we gave her. 
.. THIS SPEECH' broght a retort 
from President Roosevelt at his next press conference. The President spoke bitingly of th~ copprheads of Civil War days a.n.<l said that Lindbergh and others 'were like the appeasers of the Revolutionary and Civil Wars. 

The Observer 
Needs 
TYPISTS CONTROLLERS 

Paid Hourly WAGES 
Call Howard at 1166 orl715 

lED 
One room for rent NO students S50 per month call 288-9533 or 232· 9311 
Part-time Nbysltter needed for two small children two or three days per week. own tran· sportatlon must be provided. 
Phone 283-6619 or 288-9892. 
For sale, concord MK-111 reel--to· reel tape deck with ferrite heads, $140. Hensen stereo-1 single system stereo matrix loud­speaker, SSO. Polaroid 440 camera with flash, S75. 50 mm. f 
1.4 Nlkkor lens, $130. Linhof nullne II lightweight tripod, $30. call 234-5822 
for sale: 1974 Kawasaki 250 only 1000 miles must sell call 6839 
Pandora's Books has used and new N.D. class books. Also: magazines, pipes, papers, comics, New York Times and Wach Post on Sundays and nice friendly people. Visit us and save your money. 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
Welcome back! from Pandoras Books. Can't walt to see you. Hope your summer was good. 
4 bedroom house for rent. 1-4 persons $SS monthly Including utilities 706 N. Allen 

NOTRE DAME'S ONLY 24 HOUR ADAY REQUEST LINI·: 
234-WRBR. 
• 

Barnaby neesds experienced part time pizza help. $1.90 to start. Mostly weekends. Apply Barnaby's Rest. 713 E. J~. ferson. During the day 
Pandoras: We have books for these classes. 
Am. Studies: 352, 358, 381, 49 English: 3030, 311, 320, 322, 381, 385, 386, 388, 392-A, 399, «1-4-A, 414,421-1,486, 505-A, 574,584, 593, 594, 664-A, 675-A Gen. P. 281, 381, 481,501, «3, 243 Hlst.: 413, 453, 445, 447 Mod Lang.: 400, 450, 445, 461-N, 493 Col Sem.: 321 Govt. : 342, 343, 490 Phil.: 201, 245, 275, 301, .351, 354, 441, 661 
psych.: 201, 245, 275, 301, 351, 354, 
Soc.: 227, 229 Theo.: 313, 341, 441, 202, «3, 304 Freshman. Pandoras books has these class books in stock used and new: Eng: 109, fS180 185 Art: 151 G.P.: 180 Hist: 109, 113, 180 Govt. 180 law: 180 Math: 10.C, 106, 125, 126 Phil: 101, 180 Theo: 114, 117, 180 
Open till 9 p.m. tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Fr:day and Saturday. 
r 
0' --------------~---­
20 the observer Wednesday, August 21, 1974 
Clements, Bullock lead Irish '0' 
by Bill Delaney 
eight of sixteen passes for 120 • f The 1974 edition of the Fighting yards, and scored a touchdown onIrish Football team continued a six yard run. Frank Allocco, who preparations for the upcoming will be Clements backup displayed sea~n~ with a full scrimmage last his flair for the roll out, as he ledSaturday afternoon in the stadium. 
the first and second unit on threeThe team, which has been prac­excellent drives.
ticing here since August 14, 
culminated ten days of double 
sessions withthescrimmage, which 
Ron Goodman and AI Samuel was played under real game-type 
were Bullock's running mates in conditions. the number one backfield, and both seem to be filling the void caused 
"We like to come out and play by the injury to Eric Penick and the under these conditions to attempt absence of AI Hunter. to ~ive the players as much early 
The defensive team, considered
fieiu practice as possible 
one ofthe finest in the country, has 
commented head coach Ara 
lost several key players to injury,Parseghian. "The officials, down but the defensive line play pleased markers and clock bring a sense of Coach Joe Yonto. Junior Steve
immediate reality to these 
Niehaus, hoping to have a fUll

scrimmages." 
healthy season, is at defensive 
The workout, which lasted five end l, along with Jim Stock. Mike quarters, featured some verY.; Fanning and Kevin Nosbusch are bright highlights, including a 77 at the tackle position, and . both yard punt return by freshman showed solid performances. The Ronnie Cullins, and the steady, linebacking crew of Greg Collins r, dependable performance of Sherm S'mith and Drew Mahalic fullback Wayne Bullock. Bullock provided hard-hitting and good gained 120 yards in 21 carries, pursuit during the course of the scoring two touchdowns on a 12 and afternoon. eight '•yard carries. 
Perhaps the area of greatest concern for the Irish is the 
As far as the scrimmage went, defensive backfield, and Satur­the squad was broken down in day's scrimmage led to even 
three offensive and defensive Simon on Wednesday and&zanot 1 being filmed, we can take a goOd
greater speculation. The football team at the end of the 
units, each seeing a good deal of graduation of Mike Townsend and during Saturday's scrimmage. long look at what we have, and can workout than we were at the Junior Randy Payne, who had a
action. Tom Clements, one of make some evaluations that are beginning of the afternoon."
Tim Rudnick and the dismissal of 
,; Notre Dame's All-American great Blue-Gold Game, and fresh­needed."
Luther Bradley caused some 
candidates, led the first team man Randy Harrison, h8ve come
serious problems for the coaching 
The team will practice
offense through much of the game, in to fill the vacancies, and
staff. Tim Simon and Bob Zanot, 
Distribution
despite a slow start, displayed sophomore John Dubenetzky had· throughout the week, with another 
the key contenders for the vacated scrimmage scheduled for this
much of his fine form during the don~ a good job at strong safety.
positions now have been lost for the afternoon. Mark Brenneman who 
second half. Clements completed 
entire season with knee injuri~, has a strained Achilles tendon, will 
With this scrimmage came the 
of football

be lost indefinitely as will Zanot
first opportunity for the freshmen to display their talents. Quar­
and .Simon~.-With the season
terback Joe Montana led the third 
opener only twelve days away, 
tickets set

team offense in a long drive, with 
Coach Parseghian and his staff
his pass play to Nick DeCicco the The student ticket distribution
have their work cut out for them.
key play. Ken MacMee's strength concerning football tickets was
OBSERVER. 
and blocking ability at tight end Saturday's scrimmage provided a announced this week with tickets gave Coach Parseghian a mild glimpse of the potential the Irish being exchanged for athletic have and masked the steady certification cards at the ticket surprise "It's juSt too early t~ sales windows .on the second floor 
improvement the team has shown of the ACC on the following dates:
SPORTS 
know about the freshmen" noted this fall. As Parseghian em­Parseghian "With this scrimmage phasized,. "We were a better SENIORS: (Seventh and Eighth 
demester Students Only): Wed­nesday, August 28, 8:30 a.m. to 2
Depth is key to front four success P~·NIORS, GRADUATE, LAW 
and all students in ninth semester "All the kids are working hard, or higher: Thursday' August 29,by Greg Corgan last season. With George Hayduk year at Notre Dame. "Of course 
I, ·t sed 'th 8:30 a.m. to 3:30p.m.
Sports Editor and Tom Creevey graduated, and we lost Ross and Willie, and m qu1 e p1ea w1 our group. Ross Browner and Willie Fry although Jim Stock's shoulder is Kevin Nosbusch did a good job last SOPHOMORES: Friday, August unavailable for action this season, coming along fine he was out for all year, had an excellent spring, and 30, 8 a.m. to 1 p.m.
It's a little like the stock market 
._tl·. 
of the spring season. So for now,
crash. One day you're rich.• the Yonto finds his front line strength so far th~s fall h~s p~ayed v~ry FRESHMEN: Friday, August 30, next day you're poor. somewhat depleted. and it seems to be the story with well. M1ke Fannmg _Is working 1:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
Defensive line coach Joe Yonto "Obviously the thing we're everybody, we're concerned with hard as usual. He's m excellent depth."
isn't exactly poor, but he enjoyed a looking for this year is depth," said shape, ~nd h_e wo~ks .to stay that Note: Issuing time for the above 
little more wealth and good fortune Yonto who is starting his eleventh Despite the high talent losses, way. M1ke d1d a fme JOb last year includes the noon hour the front four right now is enough and has continued to do so this fall, · to scare any opposing coach. and Jim Stock is solid at the right 
You are reminded that no
Stock, who started all eleven end." 
student may present more than
games for the Irish last year is 
When Yonto mentions that he four (4) certifications for seating,
the right end while 270 pound 
needs depth, it's not as if he doesn't and if you desire to sit with a St.
Steve Niehaus has been moved to 
have any at all. Two freshmen, Mary's student whose class is the
the left end position. Seniors Mike 
Ernie Hughes and Pat Blackburn same as yours, she must ac­
Fanning 1.~d Kevin Nosbusch hold 
and sophomore Tony Zappala are company you to the ticket window
down the tackle spots. 
the backup people at the ends while in order to sit together.
"What we wanted to do," said 
Nick Federenko, Jay Achterhoff,
Yonto, "Is to take the best people 
Graduate and Law school
and freshman Jeff Weston are the
and fill them into the top four spots 
students must pay a fee of $18.00
number two tackles.
without too much regard for 
for a season ticket. Band members 
position. What pleases Yonto the most is and perspective band members'"The most important thing that all of his charges are working will not be issued student tickets,about the front four as it is now is their hardest. Yonto has always but must turn in athletic cer­
that they've all been there before. been concerned with competition tification cards to the BandJim, Kevin, Mike and Steve all among his linemen. 
Director in Washington Hall.

have th~ experience, and they've 
"It would have been interesting
all performed well for us in the Married Students must present 
past." to have seen the battles that would their athletic certification cards have developed had Willie and
Perhaps the most inexperienced together with evidence of the of the four is Niehaus who just maritial status to the ticket office
Ross been here this fall. It also would have been nice since I
can't seem to make it past that in the ACC between 9 a.m. and 4 
wouldn't be so concerned with
fourth game of the season. The p.m. on Wednesday, August 28 or 
acquiring depth. But 'that's life,
6'5" junior however, is also the Thursday, August 29, along with 
and that's past. For the present,
quickest of the four, and appears to the fee of $18.00. Turn in the 
the situation improves day by day. 
be handling the switch to end receipt that you'll receive to the 

It should be a very interesting
without much difficulty. ticket office between 9 a.m. and 4 
season, and I suspect that things
"There's no question that Steve p.m. on Tuesday, September 3 to 
will eventually fall into place. But
is fast enough to play end," noted pick up your tickets. 
it'll be interesting."
Yonto. "His knee (the second knee injury he's had in two years) The stock market can be in­Lastly, but most importantly, Coach Joe Yonto, enters his eleventh season at Notre Dame with a few seems to be fine. his weight is fine, teresting also, even more so for you must have an ID card for 
more problems to solve.\ and really, he's quick as a cat. those who win. admission to all home football 
games. 






