, 
On The Inside 
Campus Ministry ...page 5 
Marathon ends ... page 4 

Vol. VIII, No. 97 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's communit1 
Monday, March 25, 1974 

-In Civil Rights series 

Shriver lectures 
on leadership 
by Susan Divita 
Staff Reporter 

The Honorable Sargent Shriver was welcomed Friday, March 22, at 3:30 p.m., in the Center for Continuing Education by Notre Dame President, Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., and the Honorable Richard G. Hatcher, Mayor of Gary. Shriver spoke on executive leadership in the third annual Civil Rights lectures. 
Shriver summed up a few of the points of his previous lecture by saying the offices in the government have access to the finest ad­vice in the science, economic and political fields, for example, but practically no advice on moral or ethical considerations of the same issue. He would like to see the ethical side injected into government issues. This notion stems from his main idea that the most basic of civil rights is human rights. 
Shriver startled the audience by saying he was delighted with the energy crisisHestated that this incident brings home the question of "what you do on a small plant when all needs can't be satisfied." Shriver mentioned the food crisis, monetary and trade crisis, population, and pollution and health care as some of the problems facing the future generation of Americans and the world. None of the above problems, Shriver feels, can be solved by one nation. Therefore, the United States cannot adopt a policy of independence, but must become interdependent with the rest of the world. 
Shriver then began his Civil Rights discussion. He said he was against forced segregation and spoke of the apartheids existing in our country today, beginning with justice. 
Shriver stated the majority of people in jail are blacks,,Mexicans and other minorities. This is not because, as he explained, these people are inherently criminals, but were denied certain op­portunities when young and so went into crime. Shriver gave an example of the discrimination by saying it is very easy to go to jail for stealing a 150 dollar car, but people in high public office get away with alot more. 
Shriver cited the bureaucratic barrier as the blockade to executive action in government. He claimed orders are handed down along the line and made by bureaucrats-some of whom were never elected to office. The bureaucratic system has to be "democratized," Shriver said, and the leadership has to have their eyes open. 
What can an individual do in this country?, asked Shriver. Alot, he answered, citing Watergate as a prime example. The Americans in recent years, have watched a president killed, violence in politics, a war raged and a president trying to stay in office, to "stay out of jail," according to Shriver. "It is easy for us to feel very comfortable, to ignore our problems and relax,'he said. Shriver summed up this apathetic mood by saying, "comfort has replaced concern." 

By acting on our beliefs, we can encourgage ar~d motivate others, Shriver feels. He mentioned the most dramatic example as Watergate, to illustrate how two men did all the work with no one helping them to uncover the story of the masses. Shriver con­cluded, "One man, blending moral courage with intelligence can change the world. You can make a difference." 

Shriver: Government now gets no advice on moral or ethical issues. (Photo by Zenon Bidzinski.) 


by Kris Thorson 
The Honorable Arthur J. Goldberg addressed the guests of the dedication dinner of the Center for Civil Rights, Friday night in the Kresge Low Library. 
The Center was established in 1973 to further public analysis in the fields of human and civil rights. It was dedicated by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame, who served as a member of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights for 15 years. 
The dedication of the center followed a tribute to Hesburgh given by former Commission Staff Directors Berl Bernhard, Howard Glickstein and William Taylor with present Staff Director John Berggs. Glickstein is now the director of the Notre Dame center. 
Harcourt Dodds, of the Ford Foundation, responded to Hesburgh's dedication and Carl Holman, president of the National Urban Coalition, paid tribute to Dr. Martin Luther King. Marian Wright Edelman, director of the Children's Defense Fund, in­troduced Goldberg. 
Goldberg, speaking of his years as U.S. Supreme Court Justice, said, "Impartiality is a dream. Honesty is a duty." He said he followed this policy in reaching court verdicts. 
In 1961, Goldberg came to South 
Bend as Secretary of Labor finding 
it "desolate, as a result of 
recession." He described it today 
as "looking fairly prosperous." 
Being here for the dedication, 
Goldberg said thatit was"an honor 
to be at the dedication on the 20th 
anniversary of the Brown vs. 
Board of Education decision. 
The significance of the location 
of the center was "great" due to 
Hesburgh's presence, according to 
Goldberg. He called Hesburgh an 
"outstanding leader" and a "great spiritual warrior" in the civil rights movement. Rather than being a "happy warrior" he cited Hesburgh to be "a valiant warrior" who recognized that "equal rights for all are the will of God" and that "God's Will must truly be our own." 
Concerning the American public today, Goldberg said that there is a "profound cynicism and disillusionment about government and civil rights" and that "government and civil rights are related." · 
"The fact that the public is discouraged about the government is understandable," he continued. "Watergate has shocked the public." 
He said that the evidence that officials at the highest levels were illegally bugging, perjuring, playing favoritism, using cover­up, etc., has eroded public con­fidence. 
As for impeachment, Goldberg said that the impeachment of a president was a prospect con­sidered only once before. He cited that polls show that the people want Nixon out, but are uneasy about it. 
"Impeachment is the most drastic political sanction in our constitution, and people fear its potentially disruptive effects," Goldberg commented. "Im­peachment can't solve all of our Watergate woes, but if properly and fairly conducted, the result could stand legitimate and alloy cynicism," he continued. 
Goldberg stressed that to seek to correct injustice is a"moral and constitutional obligation." Citing himself to be a devout Jew and a member of a minority, he reminded the guests that minorities are victims of educational opportunity. 
"No one is proposing a quota 

system," said the former Justice. 
He continued that a moderate 
number of blacks ought to be 
admitted in law schools and c.tber 
higher educational institutions to 
"establish equity, not fill quotas." 
He claimed that the most ef­
fective action to be taken is for 
"minorities to share with whites in 
educational experiences in actual 
classrooms." 
In citing the Brown decision's 
significance, Goldberg spoke of 
Brown as the "parent" of the 
Gideon decison, which provided all 
with the right of legal consel. In 
Gideon's case, first tried without 
counsel he was convicted and when 
tried the second time, with 
counsel, he was acquitted. 
Goldberg felt strongly that the 
Court is in charge of the problems 
of civil rights and equal justice 
under the law for "all blacks and 
whites, men and women, children 
and adults." 
"The nation has to get rid of a 
few hundred years of tradition and 
those who genuinely believemust 
persist with courage and for­
titude," he said. 
Goldberg rhetorically asked 
when the last rich man was sent to 
the electric chair and said that the 
death cells he had seen were oc­
cupied by blacks and illiterates. 
He expressed regret that some 
states are returning to the man­
datory death penalty. 
Goldberg appealed to the 
coalition of civil rights adheftnts 
to "restore its prior unity, not 
compromise." He emphasized 
that they "mustpersist in the hope 
that it will abjure prejudice, fear 
and hate." 
Goldberg concluded that "the 
Court has done its duty. Let the · nation do theirs. Let both the Court and the nation do theirs to fulfill 
the still unrealized dream that all 
men are created equal." 

A new addition 

• • • see page 1 

:·/the ·6bserver •Monday/March 2'5; '974 
warld 
briefs 
SINGAPORE UPI-Five young Europeans streaked through a food center in this island nation Friday while hawkers splashed chili on them, a Chinese language newspaper reP?rted Sunday. The newspaper, Min Pao, said the five men, wearmg only shoes, dashed through the food center while startled women covered 
their eyes. 
NOTTINGHAM, England UPI-Mrs. Shirley Turner, 36, has lost 70 pounds since doctors clamped her haws together to prevent her eating solid food, she said Sunday. Mrs. Turner, mother of two teen-aged daughters, weighted 247 pounds when she began her all-liquid diet. She said her doctors report her in perfect health. 
BEIRUT UPI-Aden authorities permitted a Canadian plane and its four-man crew to leave southern Yemen Sunday after foqr days' detention on charges ~f violating the c?untr~'s air­space, the Iraqi News Agency .sa~d. The two-engmed airc~aft was on a geological survey miSSion along the coast of neigh­boring Oman when Yemeni air force jets ordered it to land at Aden. 
TEL AVIV UPI-An Israeli scientist denied a British report Sunday that his process of enriching .uranium through laser rays was aimed at producing cheaper nuclear weapons. Menahem Levin a researcher at the University of Tel Aviv, told the newspaper that the Davar the technique "is not meant to manufacture atomic armaments; just to create inexpensive fuel for nuclear reactors." 
MOSCOW UPI-Elections to the 767-member Supreme Soviet, 
the country's bicameral parliament and highest legislative 
body, will be held June 16, according to a decree published 
Sunday by the body's prasidium. Elections are held every four 
years. 
an campus taday 
7:00 and 9:00 pm, foreign film series, "ballad of a soldier," sponsored by college of arts and letters, eng. aud. 
7:30 pm, slide lecture, st. mary's tucson program, stapleton lounge 
8 pm, lecture, "right to life", by keefe montgomery and therese buen, lyons hall chapel 
Volunteers for 

Red Cross blood 
drive needed 
Students interested in helping organize and carry out this semester's Red Cross blood drive are asked to attent a meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in room 1-C of LaFortune. Campus organizers will present a description and explanation of the drive, scheduled for April 3, 4, and 5 of next week. 
Anyone willing to help recruit donors, organize publicity, or work at the drive as escorts, recep­tionists or typists should attend tonight's meeting to sign up. Those unable to attend the meeting can call Robin Heisler at 4862 or Deece Eckstein at 8760 for further in­formation. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for II per semester (S14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
Stresses civil rights 
Goldberg speaks at CCE 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 
Former Supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg said the present Supreme Court has weakened greatly, in the press ,eonference on Friday at the CCE. 
Goldberg, who came to Notre Dame for the dedication of the Center for Civil Rights, said that the Supreme Court is no longer as strong a moral force as it was during the days when he and Earl Warren served as justices. 
Commenting especially on the civil rights area, Goldberg stated that the full promise of the Brown decision has not yet been reached in America. According to Gold­berg. many devices have been used to frustrate the Brown decision and many strategems have been used to sta.ll civil rights cases. 
"The lower courts", said Goldberg, "are finally trying to enforce civil rights legislation strictly. The tragedy here is that the Supreme Court is supposed to be the moral conscience of the nation but the present court is divided and weakened where civil rights are concerned." 
Goldberg did say that the court had acted with integrity as far as Watergate was concerned. "But", pointed out Goldberg, "judges cannot run the country. In a time when our Executive branch of government is so weak we must look for proper political leader­ship." 
Speaking about Congress, Goldberg felt that legislative procedures must be modernized. He felt that the seniority system must be tempered and suggested that sessions of Congress be televised because, as he put it," sunlight is a strong disinfectant." 
Goldberg spoke out against the American Bar Association's plan to reorganize our present court system." I am utterly opposed to such a reorganization", said Goldberg. "The Constitution of the United States says there is to be one Supreme Court and any citizen 
has  the  right  to  knock  at  that  
door."  
Speaking  as  the  former  


Try A  Few  Quarters  In Chicago  
They' II  Be Well  Spent  
THE  

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
Student· At· Large Program 
Students rrom other colle~es and universl!fe• who me.•t the admission n:aquirem~nl~ of thP. linivf'rHity'~ underg;raduote 
College and whu have the approval of their "honw" college may re~isfer 3!:-\ Students·at-Lan~e fur on~ quarter, two quarters, O'" ~'l entire acadPmic year. They may enroll in any course for which they are academi­cally qualiried, ~>llucrgraduate or graduate. With the approval or the stud~nrs own colle,;c,-credits 
earned at the University may be transferred and Di>J>Iied to the studenrs degree pro,;ram. Students ar!! eligible to live in the College Residence Hulls, enjoy all !lw privil<•,;cs of a Uni\·ersity of Chicago degree student, :~nd at the •a me time eXI>Iore the cultural resources oC one of America's greatest cities. 
For complete l.nformatlon and application form, write to: 
Student-At-Large Admission Officer College of The University of Chicago 1116 East 59th Street Chicago, Illinois 60637 
Secretary of Labor, Goldberg stated that he was against the phasing out of the Office of Economic Opportunity. Goldberg felt that the OEO was a great part of the assault on poverty and even though many of its programs were failures, he believed that such an organization was necessary to eliminate the situation. 
Goldberg closed by commenting on the recent wave of pornography decisions on the State level in America. "The Bill of Rights", said Goldberg, "cannot be watered down and interpreted differently in different areas of the country. The interpretation of the Bill of Rights as it applies to pornography must be uniform for the entire country." 
"Bisek Perspectives In Transition" 




IDENTITY AND GROWTH· AND THE N.D. STUDENT 
a talk and discussion, with MORTON popular teacher and counselor. 
TUESDAY MARCH 26 8PM 
Galvin Life Science Aud. 

(a continuation of the discussion initiated by the campus ministry team 
c;JPP~c;J,r,ing in the Obser~~.r) 
' 'I •. , 0 0 ,• ,',' 


.,.th$ ·ob.server ' 3
\ \ . . . ... 

Susan Darin 
New Dome editor named 
By Pattie ooney St. Mary's Editor 
Susan M. Darin, a sophomore from Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, has been appointed editor-in-ehief for the 1975 edition of the DOME. Darin will be replacing Rod Braye, a senior from Matawan, New Jersey. 
"I want to follow what Rod did in making the DOME a review of the year. The '72 and '73 yearbooks were very artistic, but not always appreciated by the students. I hope to make the '75 book artistic in a way that could be appreciated by everyone," Darin explained. 
Darin served as business manager of the DOME this year and is its first woman editor-in­chief. "I can see that I have to work hard to erase the idea that because I am a girl, the book will have some sort of feminine outlook, and in some ways I will have to work extra hard to combat this image and concentrate on making it a good book," Darin said. 
Presently, Darin is in the process of selecting an editorial board. There are seven editorial positions available. Editors are selected on the basis of their qualifications and experience. These positions are important because it is the editors who determine what goes in the book and each editor is in charge of a specific section of the yearbook. For example, Daric was the editor of the faculty administration section. 
The rest of the staff will be 
selected in the fall. 
Bookstore B-ball contest registration starts today 
by Bob Quakenbush 
Staff Reporter 
This is it! We'll soon find out the best hoosier basketball team on campus, because registration for the Bookstore Basketball Tour­nament, An Tostal 's premier sports event, begins today. 
The biggest change from last year is the institution of an "equal opportunity rule" which permits boy, girl, and mixed teams, as well as graduate and law student teams, to enter. 
Again this year, the five-man teams are limited to one varsity or former varsity player per roster. Games will be to 21 (one basket­one point). 
At the end of the tournment, Mr. Bookstore will be named, the Golden Hatchet award will be presented, and prize for the "Cleverest Printable Nickname" awarded. 
Registration runs from today, March 25, through Tuesday, April 
2. To enter, call Vince Meconi, 144 Morrissey, at 3476. When calling, be ready to provide a team nickname and the names, ad­dresses, and phone numbers of the team's captain and assistant captain. 
Meconi is still looking for referees, scorekeepers, and general assistants, so volunteers are asked to contact him at the same number. 
The title game will be played behind the bookstore on Frivolous Friday, April 19. 
SMC juniors arrange Augusta Hall experiment 
. late sprmg.
by Pattie Cooney Alternate living quarters for 
St. Mary's Editor those wishing to live in Augusta, 
The forty SMC juniors who will will be fourth floor library wing 
be living in Augusta Hall, held a and east main of Le Mans Hall. 
short meeting in Stapleton Lounge, The experiment could be continued 
on Saturday, March 23. there since those sections can be 
During the meeting living separated by closing the double 
arrangements were discussed. doors that are between east and 
There is a one per cent possibility west main. The students will know 
that the forty girls may not be definitely by July 1, whether they 
living in Augusta. The only reason are living in Augusta or Le Mans. 
they may be living elsewhere is if Other students who wished to 
enrollment drops. At the present live on fourth library and east 
time the college has accepted more main of Le Mans, may still pick a 
students than there are !>eds for room up there as their first choice, 
and the number of students coming but in the meantime must pick a 
in the fall will not be definite until room elsewhere. 
c 
A M p 
u 
s 
v 
I 
E 
w 
NOW KtNIINu one and two bedroom furnished apartments 
Featuring: t SWIMMING POOL 
+ 
COMMUNITY BUit.DING 

+ 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 

+ 
REFRIGERATOR 

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT 

+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south bend· 
THE HOMECOMING 
Harold Pinter's disturbing, bizarre comedy Mar. 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 at 8:30pm Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 



l 1 
1 
I 
J 
I 
t-
w ND 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 · 

Our Officer Selection Officers are looking for a few good college men­maybe 3 out of 100-who will make good Marine officers. If you're one of them, we'll give you a chance to prove it during summer training at Quan­tico, Virginia. 
Our program is Platoon Leaders Class, PLC. With ground, air and law 
options. You might even qualify for up to $2,700 to help you through college. 
But if money is all you're looking for, don't waste your time. 
The challenge is leadership. If you want it, work for it. If you've got it, 
show us. It's one hell of a challenge. But we're looking for one hell of a man. 
·------------· CP 2.74..1
. es IP
I 'he .ann 
Please send me information on 

I . 
Box 38901 Marine Corps Platoon Leaders I Los Angeles, California 90038 Class. (Please Print) 
I I
Name Age
I I
Address 

City State Zip_____ 
I I
School Class of I Phone Social Security # I 
If you are a senior, check here for information on Officer Candidates Class o. 
·-------------· 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty ND+SMC Staff 
$ po 

the obse,rver Monday, March 25, 1974 
:____..:...:..:...=......;:;..::;....::....:;_:...;.....;.~.......:......-:""r"----'--:-r--:---:---.-. ,• ,' ~ ·:• •;." ... '·' .. ; ·;­
Dance Marathon ends after poor response 
The forty-eight hour Muscular Dystrophy Dance Marathon ended Sunday afternoon with four of the six couples still competing for the three-hundred dollar first prize. 
The winners of the marathon, to be announced Wednesday af­ternoon, will be selected on the 
basis of which couple earned the largest amount of money in pledges for the charity. 
"We're still hoping to make close to a thousand dollars to give to the American Muscular Dystrophy Association," Student Government Adminstrative Aide Jim Roe said. While the total amount of money earned by the marathon has not yet been determined, Roe added that he expects this year's donation to be considerably less than last year's. 
"Every couple worked real hard 
and they were really impressive. I 
just wish they'd been shown more 
support from students than they 
were given," he stated. 
"I thought we were better 
organized than we were last year 
and we tried to ,get the South Bend 
community involved. this time," 
Roe observed. "We did receive an 
excelllent response from St. 
Mary's Academy of South Bend," 
Roe added. 
Supplementing the dance 
marathon were additional con­
tests, including a checkers contest, 
a halter top contest, a muscle shirt 
contest, and a name-that-tune 
contest. 
Special activities co-ordinator 
Dan Schipp said he was also 
disappointed by the sparse student 
turnout but that "we all had a very 
good time." 
Schipp also explained that the 
contestants were allowed a four­
hour break every twenty-four 
hours and a half-hour break every 

They could have danced all night 
••• and did. TWICE. (Photo by Zenon Bidzinski) 
Looking for a place to get away on Lake Michigan. For rent Lodge and cabins during April and"or May. Only 30 min. from cam­pus: Gintaras resort 15860 
:Lake Shore Rd. Union Pier Mich. Te. 616-469­3298 or 312-737-4515 
Douglas summed up her ex-people-that was the most im­
four hours. Meals were donated by and Burger Chef. 
One contestant, St. Mary's perience in the marathon. "I had portant part of the marathon," she 
Barnaby's, McDonald's, Rocco's, 
Academy freshman Portia .~o much fun meeting all the said.
Kentucky Fried Chicken, Perkins' 
NO marathon takes its toll on dancer. C Photo by Zenon Bidzinski)  
Voices, Inc.  
Sunday, March 31, 1974 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's College Adults ­$3.00 Students (J.D.) ­$2.00 Children ­$1.00  
EXPERIENCE  
THE  
BONNIE BELL  
LOOK!  


Tommorrow At The Notre Dame Bookstore: 
There WiII Be A Demonstration Of Bonne Bell Cosmetics There Will Be A Drawing For A Free Gift From Bonne Bell. 

t'\........ ,. .~·.•1,_1; 0 ,,·,·,~ ·'.: 1\ '•'\ ',,.. ~·· : ' . 
Monday,· Matth 25, 1974 ..... -. . the observer' ' 


Campus Ministry speaks of new program 
Editor's note: Following is the first of a three-part series of articles sponsored by the Observer, in co--operation with Campus Ministry, relating to a program of activities planned for the next three weeks by the Campus Ministry staff. This particular article is an edited version of a taped conversation in which members of the Campus Ministry staff discussed the growth and identity problems of Notre Dame students. Taking part were: Frs. William Toohey, Robert Griffin, Thomas McNally, Thomas Stella; Br. Joseph McToggart; and Sr. Jang Ritz. 
McTaggart: We have some very talented students_on campus but around mid-term s~~e of t~em face a ki~d of defeat in the highly competitive society here. This and a number of other things cause them very realistically and very profoundly to ask "Where in hell am I headed and whose values have I been following?" 
Toohey: I'm wondering if some of the confusion doesn't come about because the students don't clearly answer the right question. The right question, I think, is "After t graduate from Notre Dame what am I going to be?" This question speaks about the kind of person you hope to become in four years; it talks about human growth about acquiring skills and techniques and abilities to do certain things so you can enter the job market and begin to acquire success. But you may not have changed or grown as a person. 
McNally: What worries me a bit is that it sounds as if we are talking down to students. After all, we must answer the same questions for ourselves -"What are we going to be?" We don't have all the answers and never will. Father Hesburgh talks about the need for the moral education of students. This is true, we should be doing a much better job of doing this. But I think also it involves our own moral education because sometimes our values get fouled up and we display the same kind of immorality, if you will, that we hint at in the lives of our students. 
Griffin: I think we go through times of crisis several times in our life -a particular time of crisis as we become an adolescent, a crisis that comes along later in life when one finds himself middld-age, and so forth. But I wonder why so many of wour students seem to toy with the thought of suicide. Why is it that some young persons who seem so gifted and have so much before them suddently find life so empty that they consider opting out of it? 
Stella : Bringing up the idea of suicide is really significant to this whole identity question, I think. Identity is struggling with what it means to be; suicide is opting not to be. I see a lot of pople for whom the whole question of identity is tied into the meaning of life When the latter is missing, then identity seems to 
be a problem. 
McTaggart: What is it, I wonder that causes students in the prime of life to think about snuffing out their lives? Part of it, I think, is a realization that there are forces outside themselves that cause them to move their lives in ways they really don't want. For example, the students who says-"for me to be im­portant and worthy I have to get into medical school." Or the student who says-"for me to im­portant and worthy I have to date one of the few girls who are present on campus." I think that a person can deal with disappointments when he stops using those things "out there" to measure his worth and begins listening to something inside himself that says he's an okay person. 
Pitz: It's a very thin line between letting people and things overcome you and choosing to do something because you feel right about it inside. I find that it's a difficult feat for anyone to distinguish between what is laiJ on you from the outside and what come form the inside. 
McTaggart: I was looking into something by Henri Nouwen and it has to do with forces outside me and the need for me to listen to something inside me. Nouwen is talking about whether loneliness leads to anxiety or to solitude. And what he seems to be saying is that our relationships with one another at a place like this should help us move from loneliness to a kind of solitude where we become the directors of our lives. 
Pitz: That makes sense to me. I've known people who have a lot going for them; they're bright, happy at times, and have friends. But when they think to look inside themselves they don't find enough meaning there. Then all those externals, which may look like real positive forces to others, mean nothing to those persons. 
McNally: Last night I was talking to a freshman who, when he first arrived, seemed to be a very happy, outgoing person. But now, just a few months later, he seems kind of unhappy I get the impression that he is suspicious of me as a rector and that things are going on in his life that may not be good. Perhaps he's into the drug scene, I don't know. My conversation with that freshman has something to say about the whole question we're talking about. A kind of loneliness that I picked up, a sense of alienation. Some things that go on in this kind of growth experience here can be really difficult. I guess we're aware of this but sometimes I at least feel unable to help the students cope with the problem. 
Griffin: Perhaps today it's harder to be what you want to be. You see students who work their heads off to get into med school and find that med school is closed to them. They start to qualify for law school and they find that law school is closed to them. Everything is do overcrowded today and people who work to get degrees find they really can't use those degrees. I'm reminded of Wordsworth's image of a child being born trailing clouds of glory, but as he grows older shades of the prison house close in upon him and he loses his sense of identity. 
McTaggart: John Dunne says the question we usually ask is "How are you living your life?" and he reverses the question and asks "How is life living you?" 
Griffin: Somehow I feel that if you don't live life, life lives you. And life is going to be like a mugger that drags you off into a dark corner and knocks the hell out of you. 
McNally: On the other hand, life can be a happy ex­perience and I think it is form most of us around here. When Italkto students who are about to graduate I find that most of them are happy they came. At least that's the feelin~ I pick up. And so it seems that good things have happened during the four years whether ·these have come about through their own interaction with other students or form their exposure to the whole Notre Dame scene. I feel good about this. 
Toohey: Students come here in need of having an experience of furthering their growth and I think the most creative force for that is love, and the opposite force is what Camus 'calls the Plague, or "unlove." Rollo May says that self-knowledge does not come through self-scrutiny but ax a gift from others. Unless others give us that gift of their love it doesn't seem to me that I can care much for myself. In the same way, many students find it hard to like themselves because they have had some bad experiences with friends. If nobody else values them, it's hard for them to believe that God loves them and that they should ti·ully value themselves. 
Griffin: I've been sitting here thinking. We talk about worth and value. If we could help the students to help one another, so much would be solved and other things would fall into place around us. I suppose we need to find it in human love and in terms of out own family and then in terms of God's fa~ily. 
Toohey : I think that's true. A lot of students are not ready to have anybody suggest the "God answer" until they're led to some experience of being cared for, of finding compassion and mercy and understanding, of finding people who listen to them. It seems to me that only after they have the experience of love can they be led to discover love's full name, that God is love. And somehow if the've had thesee experiences God can't be totally excluded from them. 
.. Dr. Morton Kelsey wUispeak at 8:00p.m. Tuesday, March 26, in the auditorium of Galvin Life Science. Sponsored by Campus Ministry, his talk will carry on the discussion on identity and growth printed here. 

Cuitural Arts cancels Whitman 
The Cultural Arts Commission­Dance and Drama Series was forced to cancel the performance of "The Three Ages of Walt Whitman" last night.. A heavy fog in Boston prevented the per­former, John Fields, from flying to South Bend. The Cultural Arts Commission apologized for any inconvenience to its patrons. The next performance in the American Character series is "Mark Twain at Home" in Washington Hall, next Sunday, March 24. 
The Thomas A. Dooley Foundation is Working.•.• in Cambodia, in Laos, in Nepal, in the hearts of millions. 

for information 
on how you can help: Write P.O. Box 1195 south Bend, Ind. 

to 228 w. Jef~e~~or of the wr't~~:a\ district. On the gr~u~he heart of the !~tfice Manal',er 
sui\ding, 10 Registered Represefi~AJ"U\.IN'\1 \NC· 
james ()ettltnl',. & cv.~•r'"' 11 flJ'I)S 
J. ~~-~annrr.:s-~
K. .BoNDS· C()NIIV'VV' ~~th Bend 
ST~28 W. Jefferson234-S094 Telephone . . 
NOW RENTING 

c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:

M +SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM u APARTMENTS 
s 
+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 



v 
+ 
REFRIGERATOR 


+ GARBAGE DISPOSAL · I + TENNIS COURT 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM

E 
CAMPUS! 
"APARTMENTS WITH

w 
THE STUDENT IN MIND 
H 

call 232-5853 for rental 1ntormation or visit crestwood management c.ompanv 301:2 east edison road, south bend· 



THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief AnnMcCarry 
Marlene Zloza 

Editorial Editor 
Managing Editor 

LeeGentine Terry Keeney John Kloos Business Manager News Editor Advertising Manager 
Monday, March 25, 1974 
Keep Pushing! 
The endorsement of the LaFortune Renovation by the Executive Committee has now given the renovation plans their first big push toward becoming reality. Next step? Keep pushing. 
Meeting over the spring break, the Trustees rejected Ellerbe Architect's 800,000 bid due to the lack of a donor. However. in its place they voted to propose at their general meeting in May that $250,000 be allocated by the University to begin the renovation. They have taken the first step. It is now the student's turri. 
We should not be discouraged by the cut in funds. Should the Trustees decide to accept the proposal, then at least a beginning will have been made. After that point a watchful eye will be needed by the students ·to insure that the renovation continues. 
Another major "unknown" to the Trustees and University officers is whether or not the students would respond to any renovations through more use of the building. 
Certainly it is not possible to gauge accurately or guarantee any such notion. The fact, though that students have en­dured setbacks in pushing renovation for 
nearly  three  years  should  serve  as  
somewhat  of  an  indication  of  their  
motives.  

For the present, make it known how you feel about LaFortune either to an administrator or through a letter to the Observer. If you care, let it be heard. 
Tom Drape 

Point-Counterpoint 
Opposite our editorial page today, the Observer would like to introduce a new addition-Point-Counterpoint. The purpose of the page is to draw the Notre Dame community more clearly together in ideas and opinions concerning campus, national, and world happenings. 
Point-Counterpoint is wide open. It's conception centers around the Op-Ed page idea which refers to an Opinion­Editorial or Opposite-Editorial page. As does an Op-Ed page, Point-Counterpoint will combine an opportunity for both a subject forum and subject perspective. 
Under your own signature, we offer any student, faculty, or staff member at Notre Dame a time and place to put forth their opinion on selected topics for recognition by the rest of the university. 
Issues involving this university must also involve any and all of its members. Point-Counterpoint is dedicated to those at Notre Dame who will have the willingness and courage to honestly confront the issues. 
The genuineness of this page can only be achieved through your response. Notre Dame faces a time in which the complexity of community existence demands ventilation. We all must share this mutual challenge and recognize it. The Observer, by instituting Point­Counterpoint, offers the space. To our 
Notre  Dame  community  we  offer  its  
content.  
The Editorial Board  

d  . ~~\'\~}'\?  the observer  
~ a 11•s b u r  ~::, HOM~ .INWff ro ti/()R.K VP 1J AN AP1¥.4L RJ/{ G®~~CANS ro STANO liP FOR tiiiATS KI6HT «<lTH 7H£ An!l!C'AN /. Pl(fiSIIJ6NCY!  Editor-in-Chief: Tom Drape Editorial Editor: Ann McCarry Managing Editor: Marlene Zlosa News Editor: Terry Keeney Sports Editor: Greg Corgan Features Editor: J.R. Baker Contributing Editor: Fred Graver Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy Special Projects Editor: AI Rutherford  
y  Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink Saint Mary's Editor: Pattie  
Cooney  
Production  Manager:  Howard  
Halle  
Night Editor:  Gary Ailietta  
Assistant  Night  Editor:  Mike  
Strlckvoth  
Lay-out:  Fred  Graver,  J.R.  
Baker, Ann McCarry, Marlene  
Zlosa  
Copy Editor:  Rick Thues  
Day Editors:  Mary Janca, Jim  
Donathen  
Typists:  Karen Hinks, Camielle  
Arrieh, Bill Menk, Jane Coyle  
Compugraphic:  Phil Orscheln  
Night Controller:  Howard Halle  
Pictures:  AI D'Antonio  
Sports:  John Fineran  
Graphics:  Jim  Rosini,  Ann  
McCarry  
t  
L  


fr. bill taahey 

"Dylan's Back!" exclaimed the cover of Newsweek magazine. 
Some people undoubtedly said that they didn't even know Dylan had been away. Never mind. One didn't have to be as excited about it as Newsweek magazine to still admit that the return of Bob Dylan was not without interest. His enormously successful revival may provide an interesting datum about the American adolescent mind. 
Dylan's six-week tour of 21 cities grossed $5 million. He played in front of 658,000 people, most of them young. One trade paper calculated that 7.5 percent of the population of the U.S. had requested tickets to see Dylan and his bluesy bayou backup group, the Band. 
It's reinstate~ to speculate what Dylan's return might mean. One thing for sure: there seems little doubt that Dylan baa been solidly reinstted as the reigning song-poet laureate of young America. 
When Dylan first rode the wave of his incredible popularity in the 60's, the "baby-boomers" had the schools, the attention of the media, a considerable slice of the nation's income and a very distinct music. Those were exciting, iconoclastic times; but poverty programs, free universities amd Camelot gave way to Cambodia, urban terrorism and Kent State. The toll of death and deterioration set in: Martin Luther King, the Kennedys, My Lai, Watergate. The clenched fist replaced the V sign as idealists turned cynical. Bob Dylan and his followers withdrew into a more personal and private world. After a near-fatal motorcycle accident in 1966, Dylan moved back to his home in Woodstock, N.Y. It seemed that apathy tool over the old activist spirit of Dylan and Joan Baez. It seemed .to have evaporated. The stage was taken over by a rear guard of glitter-rockers, typical of whom is Alice Cooper, who aptly describes himself and his per­formances, euphemistically, as "sort of a spit in the face." 
But now that Dylan is back, some commentators seem to feel that the old spirit is emerging anew. As David DeVoss writes: "At each concert the hush of anticipation, the buzz of uncertainty and the ap­plause of recognition are extensions of young people again listening to his words and looking for their meaning. Arms linked together, swaying in unison, chanting in time to the psychic current, a generation's anthem -learned in adolescence, sung in protest but not finally understood until periods of adult crisis -is being sung once more: 
How does it feel. 
How does it feel 
To be on your own 
With no direction home 
Like a complete unknown 
Like a rolling stone? 

One cannot help but wonder whether or not the trend will shift back to the spirit we saw in those 60's. In those days, many young people seemed to understand what a radical change our society really needed. Dr. George Wald, the Nobel laureate, wrote about many of those young adults as follows: "The young see that American society has to be changed if they are to have a future. And the kind of change they want is the kind the world yields painfully to -if in fact it can even understand." 
Unfortunately, many of the best heads in our country were busted, the most creative minds embittered and turned off; the confidenceand respect of thousands was destroyed by a Law and Order society that brought us Watergate, a swollen defense economy, an almost autonomous military establishment, continuing tragic unem­ployment, a growing white-black polarization and rotting cities. 
But maybe -just maybe -many young people today are willing to confront once again what are perhaps the most disturbing lines in the gospel -when Jesus says: "The world cannot possible hate you. It hates me, though, because I bring evidence against it, testimony that what the world does is evil."It is a very chilling thought the God might have to look us in the eye and say: "The world couldn't possibly hate you. How could it? You don't stand for anything; so how can the world, or anybody in it, possibly find anything disturbing in one so bland, so wishy-washy!" 
The gospel of Jesus, should anyone decide to follow it, insists on a strong element of dissent in our lives: "The world hates me because I bring evidence against it testimony that what the world does is evil." Following that gospel may not make many friends; it's much more liable to make some enemies. After all, this country has 11 history of tolerating people who are trying to live committed lives only as long as they keep in their place. Religious leaders, for example, are humored only as long as they pray for victory no matter what the cause and bless the weapons no matter what the cost. Closer to home, those on this campus who try to care for students would please some people a lot more if they limited themselves to castigating "crimes" like streaking, instead of challenging students to turn from narcissistic navel-gazing to the task of preparing to change the world. 
Students today (like those of the 60's) confront the perennial dilemma: "To be indifferent or indignant." It should help to know that from every indication Jesus had exactly the same decision to make: to be indifferent or to be indignant about the evils in the world around him. God could hardly be more caught up in this cause. From the very first, he has been a God concerned about human freedom -the action that typifies him most is the freeing of slaves. 
There's a lot of freeing to do: people imprisoned in ghettoes and penal institutions hardly fit for animals; victims of discrimination because of color, race, ethnic origin, sexual orientation; mental patients and the elderly, trapped in "homes" that treat them as chattel; thousands of young men exiled because of their refusal to dill in Vietnam ; etc. 
In a way, we are all like "rolling stones, with no direction home." God calls each of us out of our personal wilderness on an exodus to a land of freedom: He would be our direction home. He also enlists us in his task of protest against evil and work of liberation. The challenge is immense, containing little appeal to the comfortable and those who bow before the golden calf called "status quo." 
Call me crazy, naive (or worse)., but I'm still willing to bet that many students today are willing to make a genuine commitment to the cause of human liberation, despite the fact that it will cost them some pain, anguish and frustration. At any rate, it will be worth watching .I 

The Judicial Code 
Necessary Revisions 
by Dave Grimmer 
Judicial Coordinator for Student Government 
Generally, students do not 
Also, the definition of an "abuse of discretion,"IIEIIII! 
understand the judicial system and how It works, which is one of the two criteria on which the Appeals they do not know how to prepare a case, and they do Board may overturn a previous decision, must be not know what the Judicial Board might have a clarified, for there has often been too narrow an 
0 b • 
tendency to look more seriously at in a particular interpretation of it. If the Appeals Board believes 
J. ectI0 n s 

case. In general, they lack the background and that the previous deicison was too harsh after experience that is needed to best insure fair having considered the circumstances, then this treatment of their case. I propose that whenever should constitute an abuse of discretion. The b the Dean of Students wishes to see a student with definition of this term must be expanded. y Deidre LaPorte 
respect to an accused violation of rules, and any Another change that should be made related to Assistant Professor in the General Program. possible admlnstratlve action, that the student the administration's right to appeal to the President 1 find two things in the Judicial Code highly objectionable. The first receive, along with the request to make an ap­of the University. It would be grossly unfair to the is the right granted to the Dean of Students not only to suspend pointment, a written copy of the complaint made student to allow the adminstration to appeal to the students charged with an infraction of the university's rules, against him, and a form letter to the extent that adminstration. The adminstration has not had to regulations or good order in certain emergency cituations, but to Student Overnment strongly racommends that the use this option so far, but that is primarily due to the expel them from the university. It 1~ not at all clear that summary student contact the Judicial Coordinator's office for advantage they have on the Appeals Board. explusion is a necessary prerogative. In this connection 1 would advice on how to proceed, and that all information The present student manual gives the Dean of like to see included in the list of "Student Rights in Disciplinary In discussed with him will remain confidential, for the Students the right to interfere with the handling of Disciplinary Proceedings" a postive assurance such as: "pendingstudent need not even identify himself when con­Hall regulations whenever he sees fit. This should action on any charges the status of a student shall not be altered, tacting the Judicial Coordinator. This letter and a not be permitted unless a majority vote of the Hall nor shall his or her right to be present on campus and attend classes copy of the compalnt are essential, for I have seen Staff approves or requests it. This rule In a sense be suspended except for reasons relating either to his or her well-too many students hurt because of the lack of gives the Dean of Students complete power, which I being, physical oremotlonal:>ther members of the university's or it's 
knowledge and preparation. do not think appropriate in the kind of Christian property." The second revision pertains to the composition of community we want to strive for. Along with the The second objectionable Inclusion In the code, In my opinion, Is the Appeals Board. The Appeals Board Is now previous rule, there Is another rule which states the limitation of an accused student's rights of access to the names composed of one admlnstrator, one faculty mem­that any directive from the office of the Dean Of of prospective witnesses and of confrontation with them openly at 
ber, and one student. Invariably, the odds are Students has the force of a University regulation. the hearing. The sixth amendment ofthe Bill of Rights bears no stacked in the Adminstratlon's favor, for never in This rule also gives the Dean of Students unlimited such reservation. What are the "extraordinary circumstances" the past three years has this board over turned a power to create any rule that he desires, thus provided for In ther(ilesof the University Judicial Board? How can 
decision of the Dean of Students or the Judicial having the power to suppress legislation of the such a qualification be justified? 
Board. In better than 75 per cent of the cases, the S.L.C. and to interpret any rule established by the Beyond this, 1 have some questions. Why shouldthe traffice and vote has been 2 to 1. I think it is evident that this S. L.C. In any manner that he may see appropriate. Parking Board be under the Dean Of Students? Surely the traffic board is either insensitive to the needs of the In­An example of this unlimited area of interpretation situation and regulations affect the whole community. Does the dividual, or afraid to overturn the adminstratlon's on the part of Student Affairs, pertains to the Dillon student have access to ali his or her records? Who may be decision. The rationale that is often expressed is as Hall case, a violation of the rule on sexual union. authorized (and by whom) to view these judicial records? Is a follows: The members of this board feel that, There should be a revision of Student Rights that student's permission specifically required before these records are 
though the decision of the previous body is harsh, it 
would allow a student the right to any non-shown to non-university persononnel? Why Is a student's choice of is not so harsh in the sense that it is unjust, and professional counsel. Presently, the manual states counsel at a board hearing limited to undergraduates? Why Isn't therefore we can not rule that there has been an that he or she may have only undergraduate there a statement Included In the code which specifies that the abuse of discretion. This distinction is a fine one, representation, but I believe that any member of burden of prPGJ In a disciplinary matter rests upon the officials one that has continually worked to the disadvantage this community should be able to serve, provided bringing the charge? Why Isn't It specified that a student detected of the student. The composition of the Board must that person Is not a lawyer, so that we may retain or arrested in the course of violating university rules, regulationsbe changed so that students have equal represen­the informality of the hearing. or good order must be Informed of his or her rights? The 
tation. 
Finally, I think that the Dean of Students should notification of charges called for should be In writing, should it not? 
be enpowered and given the responsibility for The university must recognize that young people eighteen ~ears 
handling violations of rules committed by non-old and older have been enfranchised and are gradually winning 
student members of this community. I see the the rights and responsibilities of adulthood and full citizenship. 
necessity for this primarily because of an Incident With this In mind, It seems obvious that Notre Dame studnets must 
of last semester In which a member of the staff, be held responsible for self-regulation under the guidance of the 
while driving his car, hit three people who were faculty 
walking on campus In the middle of the afternoon to who they turn for Instruction In the academic disciplines. Why 
and he never even stopped. From what I have seen, shouldn't the students in each hall or subsections thereof be per-
nothing has been done to Investigate or punish this mltted to set visitation hours and other such parietal regulations as 
person. are necessary to guarantee that the dormltorltles function as fully 
In concluding, I urge the members of this com-as possible as living and learning facilities? It Is urgent that more 
munity, and especially the S.L.C., to make these money and effort be allotted to Improve the conditions In the hans. 
revisions so that students receive more fair When money Is wanted for special projects at Notre Dame It can 
treatment in the enforcement of the rules. I also ususally be found. 
strongly recommends that Student Affairs The administration, far from assuming a dominant role In the 
I decentralize judicial proceedings, because hall life regulation of student affairs, should seek only to facilitate the In-
is where things are happening. Student Affairs-stltutlonal procedures by which self-regulation Is accomplished. I 
... Stop focusing on the enforcement of rules, because believe, for example, that the administration has disproportionate 
·'" violations are only results of Inefficiencies of life at representation on various "tripartite" university bodies, Including 
Notre Dame, not causes. Break up the hierarchy of the panel from which themembers of the University Judicial Board 
Student Affairs and get Involved In student affairs, Is appointed and the Appeals Board. The authority of the Dean of 
! 
bring students and hall staff Into the picture, Students over lakes (and Its ducks?) and cars as well as students 1 
because they have a lot to offer. Notre Dame is a another example of over-extension. 
great university, let's try to remain great by Im­
proving it. 
j A Look At the System by John Macheca 
Dean of Students 

The University of Notre Dame is com­indipensable ingredient in such situations with problems involving discipline. For Another change flowing from the 
mitted from its highest levels to value­is a caring concern for both the individual the first time In history, the Assistant developmental model Involved the need 
oriented education based on the Catholic student and the University community. Dean of Students is working full-time at formany more significant alternatives to 
tradition. That commitment is reflected In That caring concern is more integral to that job. He even gave up his the traditional penalties of disciplinary 
what the members of this communtlty say Notre Dame than the values themselves. rectorship to do so. We are currently In­probation and suspension. Much time and 
and write, but mosi importantly what they These are some of the factors why terviewing candidates for an additional effort is required to develop and maintain 
do. Our rules and regulations, especially disciplinary boards have had limited ef­Assistant Dean of Students. It Is very the motivation of others to working with " 
as stated this year, are intended to fectiveness. They lacked an ultimate likely that the postltlon will be filled by a developing" students as part of a 
document Notre Dame's behavioral ex­commitment to these responsibilities, woman, but not as an Assistant Dean of disciplinary decision. There aremany 
pectations based on that tradition. which is understandable because the In­Students for Women. people who are not In the least bit in­
It is primarily the responsibility of the dividual who comprise them have other The need for an expanded staff stems terested in the prospect of having a student 
Student Affairs Staff-R.A.'s, Asst. commitments and priorities. from the implementation of the work for them because he has to. Also in 
Rectors, Rectors and theDean of Students The historical evolution of the "developmental" approach to discipline this regard, much time and effort Is 
Office to aware of what students do and to disciplinary system has mostly centered as integral to value-oriented education. required in following through with a 
respond appropriately when rules or on the rules and the correspondent For instance, cases have required up to as student after a decison is made, 
regulations are violated. penalties. However, In recent years, the many as twenty hours of my personal sometimes up to and beyond graduation. 
The emphasis must again be p_laced on people involved have changed with the attention before a final decision was made. This is still another area where a board 
what an individual does, not. says, in instigation of disciplinary boards at the Included would be a series of 111eetlngs cannot be expected to be as effective as a 
determining what he or she believes and hall, university and appeals levels. This with the student, his rector, his R.A. his single "hearing officer" As a matter of 
what his or her values really are. As a year, what to most was a subtle change In fellow students, his academic mentors and fact follow-up responsibility In board 
result , value confrontations most often the system, actually has had great even people who will be involved In decisions falls to the Dean of Students 
occur when actions on the part of the significance. That was the addition of a carrying out the decision. Office. We have given a very high priority 
student indicate a lack of commitment ot "hearing officer" to be named by the In essence, every effort is made to to that on-going concern, especially In 
the values represented by the rules and Dean of Students, to hear cases in his determine a students level of personal serious cases. 
regualtions. Such confrontations are stead. So far, this responsibility has been development and then make an ap­A high priority will also be to Improve 
never easy, often painful as well as time delagated only to the Assistant Dean of propriate decision, taking that Into ac­communication and .understanding bet­
consuming and require convictions on the -sfi.Jdents, but 1 it has provided each student count as well as the Interests of the ween our office and the students with th 
part of the confronter. However, the one with more personal time and attention University community. hope that trust will be possible. 



~ ~---~­

~~­
\ 
,.. 
..
''· 
the observe'r' .:.·: -Monday, March 25, 1.974
8. 
wonderland of big sky is no mirage 
by maria gallagher 

Imagine a sprawling playground 7400 feet Killy was a consultant at Big Sky and skiied here while the runs were being mapped out. 
above sea level offering 40 ski runs, golf, The U.S. Olympic Cross Country Teamswimming, fishing, tennis, horseback riding trains there. And, for beginners, there are-enough to boggle the mindsoft jock and smoother runs and a certified ski school.
specatator alike. 
Twelve runs have been completed, but 28A mirage? Hardly. "Big Sky" --western more are planned, totaling more than 40Montana's newest resort complex --is miles.
presently $27 million of recreational won­Prices are fairly reasonable compared toderland, and still growing. Until two years competitors. A day's rental of an equipmentago, it was only a gleam in the eye of the late package (skis, boots, poles) costs $7.50, andChet Huntley. but has since made a small an adult full-day lift ticket costs $7.50. Adent in the mountainside. Only30 percent of two-hour group lesson costs $6.00. HostelBig Sky's 10,600 acres will be developed, but accomodations for four per night are $16.00;
there's still a lot more to be done. 
condominiums feature pools and saunas andIf you plan to visit Big Sky before next are somewhat more expensive. Officialswinter, be prepared to do some art_ful 
%..•..·. 't·
dodging--of cranes and construction workers. Although skiing opened to the 

.•.,.,.~"++...•.· ,...,.,,,.,,,, •.•/:'.}~·
public December 15, most of the complex is still under construction. The official "grand opening" is slated for March22. You can 
expect these prices to go up when skiing students and divorcees frequent the bars. 
still make it there for Easter break, though­
resumes next Thanksgiving. Most of the resort's staff are in their 20's and 
skiing won't end until April21. The Mall and 30's and have that disgustingly healthy look And For The Non-skiierother already-completed facilities will be straight out of Holiday. 
open year round. So far that amounts to two Even if you flunked "snowplow" (a basic restaurants, three bars, a grocery, post skiing position}, Big Sky can still ac­Nightlife-None too Livelyoffice, shops, housing, and non-seasonal 
comodate you. The 18-hole golf course, sports. Skiier's Paradise scheduled to open July 1, was mapped by If you really want to get into the native 
Arnold Palmer and Francis Duane. Four scene, there a·re two cowboy bars--Buck's Big Sky's biggest attraction, of course, is (soon eight) tennis courts, horseback riding, Bar and the Corral--a few miles from the skiing. Lone Mountain (11,166 feet) and and mountain stream fishing are available. mountain (30 miles from residence areal. Andesite Mountain feature downhill, open Each condominium group has its own That's pretty far to go for mediocre drinks, 
bowl and cross country trails. There are private pool, but a public pool will be open but you can take the Yellow Mule for only so presently three chairlifts (three more are by 1975. long. Besides, Buck's is a western version planned l. · and a four-passenger gondola No age seems to have a monopoly on Big of Nickie's, complete with game machines system. The existing lifts can carry 5200 Sky. Grandpas zip down expert runs with and hot toddies. The Corral is much the people per hour, so there's little or no babes in arms; five-year-olds brave easier same, but it closes at 9 p.m. So if it's action waiting. ones with instructors in tow. College you're after, better pack your own. 
The facilities are superb. Jean-Claude 
Lillie Bir:~· Screen 
quickies and pilots fill week's schedule 

:art ferranti 
A veritable plethora of made-for-TV bitten by a rabbies infected skunk (!) and conclusion with Weaver's choice of women series pilots due to the nostalgia craze and movies abound in this week's schedule of lashes himself to his barn while his wife with whom to run off. It, too, is broadcast the upcoming release of The Great Gatsby network programing, not a few being (Joanna Pettet) goes for help. This leaves Wednesday but at seven-thirty on ABC. which premiers in New York this Friday, in possible pilots for future series. him chained with his son (Lee Montgomery) At eight-thirty following the Garner movie L.A. on April3, and which will be released to 
-· 
However, the biggest film of the week, as and the drama rests on his gradually going Wednesday on NBC, Academy award major U.S. cities after that. The CBS film you probably know, is Cleopatra, shown in mad trying to get his son to free him. The winner Cliff Robertson and Diane Manhunter took place in the thirties and an two sections with part one having been catch here is that he is still somewhat sane Baker star in a 1974 remake of a 1945 film set upcoming TV film is based on the life of FBI televised last night and part two following and he has to get free because a flood is in 1912 New York City entitled A Tree Grows agent Melvin Purvis starring Dale suit this evening. The film has an coming <leave it to TV to include in Brooklyn, also a possible series pilot. Robertson. Purvis is credited with naili ng amazingly talented cast and the spectacle of catastrophic complications). Kennedy is a Based on the story of the same name by Dillinger and his accounts will probably be the movie far. and away bedazzles the superb, strong actor whose reputation alone Betty Smith this film centers on a tenament fictionalized as were those of Eliot Ness in 
viewer, distracting him or her from any is enough to urge one to watch. The film, family family, with Robertson as a likeable "The Untouchables". drama during the entrance to Rome, the entitled A Cry In the Wilderness, airs at alcoholic father (originally played by Michael Landon stars in the NBC film killing of Caesar, the Actium naval battle, seven-thirty on ABC. James Dunn which earned him an Oscar) Saturday at eight called Little House on the and the desertion of Antony's army. If odd-ball detective films which might be and Baker as his wife who pulls the family Prarie. In this he and his wife brave the Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Buton lead series next season are your bag then tune in together. The network hopes it sells since Western frontier as they travel the cast and admirably fulfill their roles. to Big Rose, also tomorrow night but on CBS "The Waltons" craze will probably peak to California alone in their on wagon. ABC Miss Taylor, incidentally, went through 68 at eight-thirty. Shelley Winters stars as a next season with the introduction of many presents another two part extravaganza costume changes for this film. And, of female version of "Cannon" who in her first similarly formatted programs. next Sunday and Monday at eight both course, this is the picture during which outing goes after extortionists. The CBS's Friday movie is pre-empted due to nights in place of their normal motion Taylor and Burton's romance blossomed. academy award winner co-stars with the premiering of two more pilots. Sam picture slot. The two nights showcase "The Made in 1963 at a cost of $40 million, the relative newcomer Barry Primus as par­Elliot <who plays the dark haired cowboy Movies", a cinematic history in preparation film managed to just turn a small profit with tners in sleuthing. And if the music like the Gabe in the Falstaff commercials) stars as for NEXT Tuesday's Academy Awards. its first TV presentation. It is the costliest plot sounds familiar, it was done by Morton "Evel Knieval" in this half-hour show As for the specials this week, they are film in motion picture history outdoing Stevens who lifted a great deal of his basic fictionalizing the escapades of the real strictly for kids and the young at heart. Russia's War and Peace since the latter background themes from his other show motorcycle champion. This episode has him Tonight, "The Selfish Giant", a cartoon, is used USSR Army soldiers as stand-ins and "Hawaii Five.O" and his year on "The Wild, challenged by a female cyclist. The whole reshown at seven on 22 and is based on an 
such while Cleopatra's producers had to Wild West." series probably hinges on the real Knieval 's Oscar Wilde short story. Immediately hire and pay their extras. Rex Harrison is Also in the gumshoe-for-hire department, surviving the Snake River Canyon jump following, Dr. Seuss's "The Lorax" repeats superbly cast as Caesar although the film James Garner stars in a possible series pilot this July 4 weekend. This show airs at eight his fight for Ecology. Tomorrow "Winnie 
takes considerable licenses with history in at seven Wednesday on NBC. He stars as followed at eight-thirty by the pilot "Aces the Pooh" goes after the "Honey Tree" at his having a baby with Cleo. No such oc­private detective Jim Rockford in The Up" which stars Jose Perez and Raul Julia seven on NBC. Walt Disney studios did the curence happened, I believe. One final note Rockford Files, who like most television as two small time owners of a trucking firm animation on this cartoon. Four half-hour about the film. The characters are very shamuses has a past--this time similar to who are Puerto Rican, from which the pilots take the place of the CBS Thursday black and white except for a few quirks of "The Outsider" a few seasons ago since ethnic humor stems. If Redd Foxx still film beginning at eight. They are (in order the three leads. Nasty Roddy McDowell Rockford is an ex-con. He is typically a refuses to return to "Sanford and Son" (he of presentation) "The Fess Parker Show", knocks off Cleo's trusted servant Hume loner and like "Banacek" takes cases the has not been on for over a month since he "Dominic's Dream", "Pete 'n' Tillie" Cronym, Carroll O'Conner as Casca stabs cops cannot solve. If it sells, it will be has been demanding ridiculous gratuities (based on the film), and "Change at 125th old Julius, and faithful companion to An­Garner's third series. from CBS>, this show may turn up as its St.". tony, Martin Landau, chooses death rather Dennis Weaver leads a wagon train full of replacement. And following that on a more Sneak scenes of The Great Gatsby and than desert his commander. But when you women in Female Artillery, a rerun of no serious vein Friday at nine on 22, "CBS The Godfather II along with many other have a film that spans twenty years running real merit taking a back seat to its Reports" looks at colleges and universities film clips of great motion pictures highlight for only five hours itis hard to add the depth predessesor, Westward the Women (with in an in-depth probe. the "ABC Wide World of Entertainment" that one would like. With what the director Robert Taylor). Anyhow, Albert Salmi Saturday's "ABC Suspense Movie" salute to Paramount Studios Wednesday <and writer) Joseph Mankiewicz ac­leads a bunch of bad guys against Weaver presents a remake of the 1950's film Pretty nig_ht at ten thirty, hosted by Kirk Douglas, complished, though, we have presented to and company who take a stand at a fort and Boy Floyd with the same title. This version Gloria Swanson, Jack Benny, and Bob Hope. us an admirable feat of movie making. Part let go with the cannons. The characters are of the story of the Midwest bank robber of It is a must for film aficionados. two airs tonight for three hours beginning at all stereotypes ranging from gung-ho older· the thirties stars Michael Parks ("Then Trlvaia Question: What channel did eight on 28. but-wiser Ida Lupino and and Nina Foch to Came Bronson") , Kim Darby( True Grit), UNCLE agents "open" when they wishect to 
The rest of the films as was stated earlier goodie-goodie Sally Ann Howes to, shall we and Martin Sheen who just turned in a talk to Waverly in New York on their pen are made-for-television so I shall progress say, no-so-goodie-goodie Linda Evans stunning performance as Peter Slovik in the communicators? highlighting thme in order of appearance. (remember Auclra on "The Big Valley"?). TV film The Execution of Printe Slovill. 
Tomorrow night, George Kennedy is The only neat twist comes at the film's The thirties is again becoming popular for Monctay, March 25, 1974 the observer 

9 

Jim Gresser 
Scholastic chief chosen 
by Mark Frazel Staff Reporter 
"A different kind of viewpoint on this university is essentially what the SCOLASTIC is all about. A broad one, yet more specific in details," declared Jim Gresser a junior English-major from Tampa Florida, who was named editor of the 1974-75 'SCOLASTIC last Wednesday. 
A veteran of two, years previous experience with both the OB­SERVER and the SCOLASTIC, Gresser has also worked for the Tampa Tribune during the sum­mer. He foresees about the same number of issues next year as came out this year, adding "But we're not primarily concerned with any fixed number, more important is the time span we try to cover." 
Now, the SCHOLASTIC appears fortnightly, but because of the printing process, which requires all copy to be at the printer's one 
Notre Dame concert band completes southern tour 
by Jl·m Don'athen Staff Reporter 
The University of Notre Dame Concert Band returned Thursday afternoon from their annual Spring concert tour. During their twelve day 3,000 mile swing through the southern portion of the United States, the band delighted more 
than 16,000 people in the ten con­certs they presented. The concert band, probably the 
m~st ~idely t~a~elled non-newly elected 
umversity .subsidized band, 
presented their program of varied 
music to audiences in Cincinatti, 
Chattanooga, Montomery, New 
Orleans, Reserve, La.; Lake 
Ch~rles, La., Memphis, and 
Chicago before their home concert 
Thu~sd~y evening at O'Laughlin 
Audttonum. . 
This,year's tour was especially successful, including a record setting audience in Memphis and an extremely warm reception in 'Barna territory. In Memphis the ?and played both an afternoon matinee and evening concert. At the afternoon matinee alone, more 
than 2,100 people attended. To
insure a warm reception in 
Montogomery, Alabama, "Yea Alabama" was added to the band's repertoireof music. Although the crowd enjoyed the Alabama fight song, they applauded just as loudly 
r---------=------___:Heffernan at 8408 or Picton at 5165. 
LOW-COST AFFINITY-GROUP FLIGHT TO ENGLAND ON REGU.LARLY SCHEDULED B.O.A.C. 747 
NEW YORK-LONDON-NEW YORK 
MID-JUNE DEPARTURE MID-AUGUST RETURN 
AVAILABLE TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF (AND THEIR IMMEDIATE FAMILIES) 
CONTACT THE TRAVEL BUREAU IN BADIN HALL (Tel. 7080) NOT LATER THAN APRIL 1 
f •• • ~. I ·~ .,
t. _, ._, 
,'.. '. \ , '. 
week before being r.eleased, there is always a time lag which separates the publication from its readers. This gap serves to define the type of stories printed. 
"Take the OBSERVER, for instance," he said, "I see our function as quite different from covering the regular, hard news as it does. Hopefully, we provide a more serious look at what's going on around this campus, analyzing 

(Photo by Zenon Bidzinski) 
th b d cl d d . .
as e an con u e 1ts evemng
· h h
r:aorg:ha.~ Wit t e "Victory 
After a needed week off from rehearsals, the concert band will begin .preparation for a banquet followmg the Blue-Gold game on 
May 4 and for graduation weekend , issue leavinfthose ave ~ne t?,at activities. even out. The Notre Dame Review isHead cheerleaders another ancillary enterprise of the 
by Leanne Jacques 
Staff Reporter 
Sue Picton and Pat Heffernan were chosen head-captains for the 1974-75 ND cheerleading squad on March 6. The decision was made by a vote of the squad. 
Picton said, in regard to the squad's money-making projects next year, "We plan to have a lot of movies and sell the bumper stickers again." The cheerleaders are a self-sponsored group. 
Cheerleading tryouts for any interested freshman, sophomore of 
junior will be held from Sunday, 
March 31, through Thursday, April 
4. The first session for tryouts will be held in Stepan Center at 2:00 p.m., Sunday. All those planning to tryout should contact either more, giving a more in depth look at things." 
''The purpose of the SCOLASTIC, as I see it," he continued, "is to related more personally to students. I'd like to think we're dealing more with a community of people than with merely a collection of ideas." 
"Our writing will reflect this next year. Over the past two years occasionally it's been ethereal and ephemeral. You lose readers if your prose gets too obscure." 
However, Gresser believes the SCHOLASTIC can offer those interested in writing feature-types articles more freedom than the OBSERVER can. "The basic function is to provide a forum so that any student interested in writing for a campus publication has a chance to do so, but we also need photographers very badly." 
"Another role we address our­selves to is to talk about matters of culture, events, trends. For 
example, I mean our issue last 
year showcasing the artistic ac­tivity on this campus that never gets noticed. We can do this and I think we have a responsibility to do it," he commented. 
Commenting further on the special-interest issues the 
SCOLASTIC deals with Gresser
t t d "Th ' 
s a e • e Football Review 
ca~e out late this year for one obv1ous reason: we were in a bowl g~~e and it would have been ridiculous, even more so in view of the fact we won the national championshi to h d 
SCHOLASTIC, although Gresser said it will, hopefully, stand on its own someday. He added, "Right now that takes the place of one SCHOLASTIC issue, but it is a very
worthwhile effort. There's a tremendous interest in literature on this campus, evidence, clearly, by the success of the Sophomore Li.terary Festival. The ND Review tnes to meet this interest." 
"Not many people realize " concluded Gresser, "that the SCHOLASTIC first appeared in September, 1867, so it's over a ~undred years old. There's an Important tradition we're carrying on. We have all kinds of big things in the works for next year." 
.·.····:....·:·:·:··-:·······················································:~··;:;';··~·-~·~·-;:;·-~·;»;!!m:::»~~w=:~==~==~~~:":-.':':':":'~~~.....,.-1
··:~:· ····· · 
WE NEED YOU 
TO MAKE IT WORK! 
Applications Now Being Accepted 
For These Areas Of Interest: ~ Social Administrative ~ ~ ~ ::::ic ~ h 
Special Projects ; Pub I icity i 

. . . . 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 

!~TER\'IEA5 SC::E~l'LE:' FDR ·,,"EEK l'F APRIL l, 
;.o:f:5~-~~3A. ~ Ca:-·:-:..~-:  .:_-..... r~--~.:.  :.~  _:-";-:.~.  
·.. i; ;,{ : ~. ., ~  3-..::~:t•:>_•:-:­s:.:·e~ ::.:-r~--5:...~·=-r. 3 :.~ ~<.:::. -~~~l-.::-t:-s :~... ·'r~~:-: ~~a-.·:-:t"..· G:-("~ ~ ~c:\a::"oa:-a--3 ::-:Ace:. ~-~u:"Ja: L:.:e ::1s. (.:-. 0 .. ~~.·:·.--3 i:-:. :\.L rt.i.: 3:\.  ~:-.1  

Where do MONYmen come from? 
From many walks of life; like graduating from N.D. 
Andy Huff graduated from Notre Dame and received his B.A. degree in January 


of 1973, majoring in Sociology. He played in two bowl games. Andy was voted Notre Dame's Most Valuable Offensive Player for the 1972 season in which N.D. finished with an 8·2 regular season record. Andy continued his football playing after graduation, playing semi.pro football in the Con­tinental League with the New England Colonials. He was the All-League fullback and his team won the league's championship. As the season ended, Andy decided to develop himself in a business that offered Independence and the opportunity to work in and serve the Notre Dame and surrounding com­munity. He joined the MONY sales team in January of 1974. He is 

developing skills in the PRIME college market, personal estate planning using Andy Huff, Class of '72 
computers, and health insurance planning. 

Where do MONY men go? 
As far as their own ability and 
Sound interesting? initiative take them. 
Then contact Jack Mays, What Andy Huff has done is above 
manager, South Bend, 515 St. average. But the opportunities are still 
Joseph Bank Building. Phone there. It's up to you. If you have what it 
233-3104 or interview with us on takes, we have the career -both in sales, 
Campus April 4th. and sales management. The Insurance industry is growing and at MONY we've branched into mutual funds and variable annuities. 
M0NY
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
The Mu1ualll.. lnsural'!Ce Compvly 01 ,...., York

Campus Interviews: April 4th 
-l\l\ Cultural Arts Campus Press ·~i~! 
!Apply at Student U!!ion Office 3rd Floor La FortunJ 
L2!:.£~~2:?.~!.~~!'f.i_I __ \IY.~~nesday at 5 P.M. ~ 
~ ~.• : ~ .. •.• • ~ ~ ;::,:•'•:···~·:N•'•'•':'N•~··=~····=~·=::·=··:··=:·'•'•';'•:• :···=~=·=-=:=·~·~:0::=-=·=:~=-=~=:=~=~=~~::~=:~;:;::::=:=::::::::~~;:;:;:~~~:~::~:~~~~;:;:;:;~::~~~:.~:=i-i-i-;=~~~~::~:::1:;:;:~::~:::~:~:=:===:=;=:=:::;:; 

Sunday drivers reappear with more gas 
By United Press International stations to shut down on summer," Simon said. in a Strong bookings were report­still described as light.
Many Americans who had Sunday. television interview. ed by Washington area hotels In the southern New York been staying home on weekends William E. Simon, the na­In the Middle Atlantic states, and motels for next weekend's area, about one third of 160 because of the gasoline short­tion's energy chief, had some where the gasoline shortage ·annual Cherry Blossom Fes­stations surveyed by the AAA age hit the road to seaside good news and a word of almost .created an emergency tival. were open. resorts, parks and historic caution -for motorists Sunday. in February, a United Press There were dramatic in­
One of Virginia's majorattractions Sunday, five days He predicted that gasoline International survey showed creases in tourists in Ocean tourist attractions, Colonialafter President Nixon dropped supplies should increase suffi­that despite Nixon's lifting of City, Md., Williamsburg, Va. 

Williamsburg, reported that itthe voluntary ban on Sunday ciently for a "normal summer" the .ban few service stations and some state parks in was recovering from a winter 

gasoline sales. of travel but drivers should opened Sunday. Maryland, Virginia and North nose-dive in business attributedPresident Nixon suggested plan their trips, observe 55 mile Despite the few number of Carolina. 
to the gasoline shortage. A 

last week that the lifting of the per hour speed limits and shut stations open Sunday, there Officials of the American spokeswoman said there had Arab oil embargo and in­off their car air conditioners. were increases at tourist Automobile Association said 
been "quite an increase" in creased supplies of gasoline no "Using our heads, we are attractions and indications that many stations lacked personnel visitors this weekend. 

longer made it necessary for going to able to have a normal the weekend trip was returning. to operate, some didn't have 
enough gasoline and many Guy Taylor, district ranger at the Great Smoky Mountain
operators liked taking the day
An Tostal event off. Park office in Cherokee, N. C. said business picked up Sunday.
Sixteen per cent of the service stattions in the Los "There are lots more hikers 
~Angeles· area were open, on the trails and sightseerscompared to only a fraction on from other states. "It surprised
Volleyball tourney renewed 
by Bob Quakenbush weekend itself, tournament play more than six players will be will be moved outdoors to the An allowed on court at a time. Each
Staff Reporter Tostal field. The quarter and semi­match will consist of three games 
Will the Conqueror Worms have finals are expected to be played on to 15 points; two out of three wins. the courage to squirm from the Frivolous Friday, and the finals Teams may be registered by mud of defeat to take another shot are scheduled the afternoon of dialing 1487 beginning today and at An Tostal's Volleyball-in-the­Sunny Saturday. continuing through April 2, unless ,Mud championship? The world "This year," reports Mike the 64 team ceiling is reached first. will soon know, since registration "Hush" Brauweiler, "we hope to Please restrict your calls to the for the festival's Volleyball-in-the­dig the 30 by 60 foot volleyball pit hours between 8 p.m. and 1 a.m. Mud Tournament begins today. about seven inches deep so we can Ask for "Hush," and be prepared 
Last year the Worms were really turn it into an oozing to provide a team name and canned in the early going, despite quagmire of mud." members' names and phone 
· the fact they were pre-tourney Brauweiler explained that last numbers. favorites. "After all," reads last year "we hardly scraped the sod Brauweiler emphasized that one year's Observer scouting report, off the surface of the field," the representative from each team "mud is their environment." result being a slick but not ex­must also go to his room (805 The single-elimination tour­tremely sloppy volleyball court. Flanner) to pick up rules sheets for nament starts April 4. All matches Boys, girls, and mixed teams are the tournaments. For that reason, held prior to An Tostal weekend eligible to enter. Although sub­registration in person is both will be played indoors. During the stitutions are permissable, no allowed and recommended. 
Fire at Nickie's draws -streaker 
blaze, which caused ap­Patrick Sweeney noted that onceby Pete Kernan proximately $350 damage, · was the flames were spotted, started when an accumulation of "everyone left in an orderlyStaff Reporter grease in the hamburger grill was fashion, except two unidentified 
A Friday night crowd of over 200 ignited by flames from the gas pool sharks who refused to leave students escaped injury when a broiler, according to South Bend until their grudge match was fire broke out at Nickle's Tavern, Fire Inspector Lt. Louis Kovatch. resolved."approximately 1:15 a.m. The Nickle's James 
Six fire department units responded to the alarm and 
quickly extinguished the flames. Spectators watching the firemen in action from the safety of the A&P parking lot across the street were treated to a display of athletic 
prowess by an unidentified resident of the nearby Notre Dame iapartments who sprinted past the crowd clad only in his shoes and socks. 

sale Wedn-.sda;r Ma'r'cf1'"27 

The damage to the building was repaired Saturday morning and Nickle's was open for business as­usual Saturday night. Owner Nick Bilello was unavailable for com­ment. 

A special program for NotreDame students (and their partners) who 
recent Sundays, but traffic was me to see so many out." 
SPRING FLING ARMORY PARTY SATURDAY APRIL 61th Tickets In Dining Hall Monday April 1sf 
Budweiser 
) ~ X ~· 
Check your local radio listingsfor time and station. Tune in, drink Bud®, have fun! 
ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 


SATURDAY, APRIL 20, AT 7:30 P.M. 
are preparing for marriage. 
TICKETS: $5.50 AND $3.50, ON SALE AT 
April 21, 28, May 5 
THE ~C.C. AND THE S.U. TICKET OFFICE. 
':.·.·. ··SIG.N U·P.. IN CA.MPU$ MI.NJSTRY OFFICE... 

Nixon may attend 
Henry at Moscow talks 
by BARRY JAMES 
MOSCOW (UPI) -Secretary of State Henry Kissinger arrived Sunday night to pre­pare the way for President Nixon's projected visit and said he hoped to make concrete progress on nuclear arms, trade and other issues in talks with Soviet leaders. 
Kissinger flew into Vnukovo airport from Bonn, where he met West German Chancellor Willy Brandt during the after­noon and discussed recent U.S. differences with its European allies. 
"I expect we will make concrete progress on a number of outstanding issues, and that we will agree that all of us have an obligation to promote them in every part of the world," 'Kissinger told newsmen in Moscow as he walked from his plane to a waiting black Soviet limousine. 
"We in the adminstration are 
Hearst program nears end 
By RICHARD A. LITFIN SAN FRANCISCO (UPil ­The $2 million Randolph Hearst food ransom program neared its next, and possibly last, distribution Sunday, nearly seven weeks after the kidnap­ing of Patricia Hearst. Hearst has said he hoped that the next distribution could be held Monday, but officials of the program said they would probably not be ready. The program's head, A. Ludlow Kramer, said he hoped for the distribution the "first part of the week." The program as originally set up came to an abrupt halt two weeks ago after the Symbionese Liberation Army kidnapers sharply criticized it, saying it was only "crumbs" for the people and some of the food distributed was "hog feed" and "unfit for human consump­tion." At that time about $1 
RARE EARTH 
and special guest Rory Gallagher 
convinced that much of impor­tance depends on the relation­ship between the United States and the Soviet Union." 
Kissinger was expected to hold three days talks' with Leonid I. Brezhnev, Communist Party general secretary, and Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko. 
He told newsmen the stale­mate in the Soviet-American nuclear arms talks at Geneva, the controversy in the United States about trade with the Soviet Union and Nixon's expected visit here in June all would be on the agenda. 
U.S. officials said Kissinger also will discuss Middle East diplomacy with Brezhnev and will try to overcome recent strains in Soviet-American rela­tions. 
"We and the Soviet leaders will will work constructively and seriously to reach the goals we all share," Kissinger said. 
Signs of strain in U.S.-Soviet 
million worth of food had been distributed to 120,000 persons. 
The Hearst kidnaping was the first political abduction in U.S. history. The SLA, a tiny terrorist organization which only came to public light a couple of months before Pa­tricia was kidnaped, called her father a "corporate enemy of the people" in its first communication shortly after the kidnaping. Hearst is presi­dent and editor of the San Francisco Examiner and the son of William Randolph Hearst, founder of the Hearst publishing empire. 
Since the kidnaping, in a 
series of letters and tape 
recordings, the SLA has made 
several demands of Hearst, the 
most prominent being the food 
giveaway. A sort of negotiation 
in full public view has evolved, 
with Hearst responding through 
published and broadcast state-

Sunday March 31 7:30pm 
Athletic and
NOTRE DAME 
Convocation Center 
Ticket Prices: 
Bleachers .......-... S3.50 Lower Arena .......S4.50 Main Floor ..........S5.50 Loge ................,•••$5.50 · Platform ..............$5.50 
Tickets on sale: 
NOTRE DAME,A. C. C. Mon-Sat 9 to 5 Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall :st. Joseph Bank • and branches First Bank • Main office only !Elkhart Ttuth 
relationship also bave been evident in Moscow, as in Washington. The oftlclal Soviet press has sniped at Killinger's Mideast diplomacy and Soviet officials have expressed con­cern about efforts by some members of Congress to block trade credits to the Soviet Union unless this country allows free emigration. 
U.S. officials said they expected the strategic arms limitation (SALT) talks to be perhaps the most important issue in the discussions here. In 
Washington  last  week  Kissinger  
speculated  whether  a  new  
agreement  covering  offensive  

missiles could be reached by the end of the year, the target date set earlier by Nixon. 
U.S. officials said they believed the Russians would be anxious to hear about Kissin­ger's talks last week with Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D.-Wash., who has led the Congressional fight on Soviet-American trade. Washington reports said Jack­son might favor granting credits and most-favored-nation trade status to the Soviet Union if it makes further concessions on Jewish emigration. 
Kissinger lunched near Bonn Sunday with Brandt and West German Foreign Minister Wal­ter Scheel. Afterward he sought to play down recent differences between the United States and Eruope. 
''The Atlantic reia tionshi p 
ha,s always been and will 
~:~~~~efg;o;~l~~~~~~~eo~atd~eri-
But he acknowledged the righd~ 'dof European cou~t!riets
"in lVI ua11y or as a um o take a different view from the 
United states. 
Kissinger said the West Germans have developed ideas for strengthening Atlantic con­
~~ji:r.~:~1r.~;~Z:i~j 
Bonne Bell Cosmetics will be conducting interviews 
on campus to find a Campus Rep for their products. 
There will be no selling involved 
:::: you just promote their products. :::: 
~ Interviews will be Monday, March 25th. ~ 
~ N
. 
~ 

;~; 9 A.M. • 4:30 P.M. Room 222 1 J~ Administration Building (Placement Bureau) j~~
I . 
Jhe observer ·11
:::::=::::::==:::=:::::::_ 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
Pioneer 626 receiver In ex­cellent condition. Call Jim 1487. 
Brand new piping hot Texasburger, served on a giant 5" bun. Accessories include, tomato, lettuce, and sprcial zesty sauce. Inquire at Mr. Q~; ick on State Route 23. only 69 cents. 
Just in from Santa Fe, Hand­made Indian Jewlry . A wide selection of bracelets, rings, eaarrings, necklaces, etc. all reasonably priced and of the highest quality. Drop in 10 L yens or caII 7833. 
Factory wired all solid state dynaco stereo preamplifier. 
(pat -4) and amplifier (120) used 1112 years. Replacement at $400 plus. Dickert at $225 phone 7046. 
Dodge 67 2 door hardtop yellow wi~h black vynil top. automatic transr,ission, power steering AM radio with rear speakers, 
bucket  seats.  Excellent  con­ 
dition.  $895.  233-7111  or  272­ 
2461  after 5.  

Kosss haedphones and ex­tension $25. Call 1480. 
PERSONALS 
Madam Fifi, Hew's business? Greetings fom Rome . Please write. 
Dear Sakaley, We are all thinking of you and hoping for your speedy recovery! 
Love,The Drama Dept. 
I 


... ·.·::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·~·:·:·:::·:·:·:·:>.:~:::=:~::::':::::&:::::::::::::::e&::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::~ 
.. ···· 
. f The PIayhouse \..=~.~=~· 
525 N. H"lll \~.~~. 
.... 
d h S ···· 

Live Entertainment We • t ru at. :::: 
:::: 


p.m. DRINKS ARE 2 for Jl :::: 
,;_ ·~~~J~t:;~~~::.. i I 
BONNE BELL 
WANTS 
YOU! 
I 
NOTICES 
GRADUATION SPECIAL: May 17-24. Nassau , Bahamas $200. Includes : Departure NO to airport-flight (open bar) and hotel. Call 288-6182. 
$65 to 95 per week part time . Unlimited earinng potential in addressing envelopes at home. Companies pay top money for that "personal" touch. For further information regarding opportunities with these companies, send $2 to Phoenix Advertising. P.O. Box 11707, Atlanta Ga. 30305. 
Experienced typist will do term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-5332. 
CJF April 4-6. Need stage crew. Free admission for those who work. Call CAC office 3797 to sign up. 
MUST RENT IM­MEDIATELY!! 2 BR house , River Park. April occupancy. 
288-6146. 
WANTED 
Want to sublet apt. for sum. mer. Portage or Turtle Creek. Call 3816. 
2 housemates for 74. 3 blocks from campus. Call 4559. 
Open now. Parttime job, 20 hrs. 5 afternoons a week. $209 per hour. Call 6549 or 6650. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost blue denim jacket near Circle Tuesday. Call Dan 8288. 
Lost brown and gold scarf Monday night between Sacred Heart and SMC. Call 4495. 

''1-'!"!!""""!!'-~~..,..,~~--!""'!"'",...'l""!"'~~-~~~~--------•$:~:::··:~·:::~:·:~·,..;·:·::=:-.;::-«;::.~·=··:::::~:~:s·~:~~~":;W.~l':~~:::!;!."!.~
'. ·.<~.-.'"",• .... it__ ;.,',,.:_~.·• .-.~_.,:.',','. ••~ ••• ~ . . ~----•-'·· •• • N.•. .. .. .. ....•
'f~'~·l f t ( ',1 •. (, t,·;. • " ·, 11 • ', -• •, 1 '.r; '\.' •'·.•'' ' Y r • Y _ 
Monday, March 25, 1974
the observer
12 
Netters successful in California 
In doubles action,ChrisKane and by John Vincent 
Brandon Walsh have teamed up the number-()ne spot and have
The Notre Dame tennis team captured five matches out of 11.
returned home this past Sunday Freshman Randy Stehlik andafter a very productive spring trip junior John Carrico are thein California. The Irish netters number two combination with anfinished the eight-day trip with a 6­impressive 8-3 record, while Slager 4 record the finest competition the and Ron Inchauste have beenWest Coast had to offer. · victorious in eight of matches of 11"We were pleased with our in the third position.
performances," said head coach The Irish begin regular seasonTom Fallon, who is .beginning his action on April 2 when they meet17th year at the top post. "We were the University of Illinois at Notreafraid that we would be over­Dame.·
powered since those schools had so much more time to prepare than 
The results: we did, but we only lost the ones Notre Dame 2, U. of California atthat we expected to lose." 
at Irvine 7Although the order of play is still Notre Dame 5, San Diego State 4undecided, sophomore Rick Slager Notre Dame 9, Dominguez Hills 0has been playing the number-()ne Notre Dame 3, Cal-State Longslot so far. The pre-med Beach 6sophomore fromColumbus, Ohiois Notre Dame 5, University of5-6 for the year, but as Coach Redlands4Fallon said, "Rick has the potential Notre Dame 1,UCLA 8to beat anybody on a given day." 
Notre Dame 2, USC 7Slager whose serves look like Notre Dame 8, Claremont 1bullets, played evenly with Notre Dame 9, Cal-State Losnationally-ranked Tom Kreiss of Angeles 0l UCLAuntil dropping a tie-breaker Notre Dame 7, Cal-State Nor­l -in the Third set. 
thridge 2
The best singles record belongs to sophomore Juan Inchauste, who 
Notre Dame's Fellowship of The FCA is a nationwide Dallas Cowboys, Chicago Cubis 9-2. Inchauste, a native of Soccer practice Christian Athletes, in its organization, counting both shortstop Don Kessinger,LaPaz, Bolivia, was a finalist in organizational phase, will hold a amateur and professional athletes basketballer Mel Counts andthe New England singles cham­Soccer practice for the Spring meeting tomorrow night at 8 p.m. and coaches as members. Some of soccer-star Kyle Rote, Jr., recentpionship last summer and with the season will begin tomorrow af­in the Grace Tower penthouse. the professional athletes who are winner of the Superstar Com­Irish has played in the number six ternoon at 3:45 p.m. on the field 
spot so far. behind Stepan Center. The Irish chapter, which was members of the FCA are Notre petition in Florida. 
Anyone interested in more FCAinitiated on February 20 by several Dame's Mike McCoy, now a tackle information can contact Jim Early 

John Fineran::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: athletes and coaches Bill Hickey, for the Green Bay Packers, Roger 
at 1383 -130 Cavanaugh Hall orFrank McLaughlin and Tim Staubach and Tom Landry, Professor Ken Milani at 1562 -247McNeill, will hear a Huddle ­quarterback and coach of the Hayes-Healy Center.

Fellowship orientation cassette

Blarney Stone( d) 
tape and take nominations for officers. The FCA is a non­

::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Gippershome denominational organization 
which has enjoyed much success in

Editor's note: John Fineran was in Houghton, Mich. covering Notre 
aiding athletes and coaches who 
OBSERVER

Dame in the first round of the WCHA playoffs. While visitint-the 
desire to Jive richer and fuller the hospitality warm. Christian lives. The group HOUGHTON, Mich.-"Welcome to the Copper Country ... you are now promotes Christian fellowship 
breathing the purest, most vitalizing air on the Earth." among athletes and coaches with 
hometown of George Gipp, he found the climate cold, but the people and 
SPORTS 

The Copper Country Vacationist League could have picked a better the hope that this will be sharedslogan to advertise this rugged area just a few miles from the shores of 
with the larger community. 

Lake Superior. 
Here, not long ago, there existed the richest and best-known copper ranges in the United States if not the world. Unfortunately, the copper lay deep in the Earth's crust, and perhaps just as unfortunately, the 
ND stickrnen 1-2 in Colorado 
depression drove many of the miners to other states. Today, only about 45,000 inhabitants reside in the two-county area. The Academy fielded a team comprised mostly of 
Years ago, there were more, and fortunately to a university down south, by George Eckes upperclassmen, and by the second quarter, they had one of these Copper Country folk came. He remains today the area's The Notre. Dame Lacrosse Club returned from made their presence felt. Scoring honors for the Irish greatest athlete, even though his remains lie now underneath five feet of their Spring trip in Colorado with a 1-2 record and went to Steve Tarnow and Rich Caron, both who 
scored two goals, and Fedele Volpe and Jacksnow here. some much desired experience that, according to 

They still speak in awe of the great George Gipp. They talk about his Coach Rich O'Leary is still in great need Corcoran, each who had single tallies. Corcoran also skills with various sticks, more often the one which he used to bank home . ' . · . added an assist. billiard balls. The other one he used to hit the longest homeruns anyone , . Expe~len~e was certamly on~ of the fac~rs m the The Denver-Notre Dame match was a complete 
ever saw. Itwas the latter stick which brought him to Notre Dame, but it . sbckmen s first encounter With the A_1r Force turnabout;. the margin of victory for the Irish was one was his athletic skills in football which gave him a tragic name in Academy • as the Falcons trounced the lr1sh, 20-5. goal. Leading 9-5 going into the last stanza, the club American history and folklore~ held off Denver's onslaught of four scores as Tarnow In the middle of Laurium, on the corner of Lake Linden Avenue, they Final icer statistics pocketed the deciding goal late in the game. The erected a memorial to him. For after all, now that the mining has 36 G~s Record: 14-20-2-WCHA 11-16-l game was a particularly rough one as 'n penalties ceased, George Gipp is Laurium's only claim to fame. were assessed. The average number for a lacrosse 
No. Plam Oms 0 A Pta P-M
It seemed so horrible, so harsh his memorial had to be buried by the game usually runs from 10-14. John Corcoran led all ravages of the cruel winters here. The guide said it's a beautiful sight in lS llutnbacco, Llof )6 22 27 49 6-15 scorers with three tallies, while both Joe Meares and 
RW 21

the spring and the summer. The water of the fountain cascades in front of 12 DeLorenzi, 35 <'S 46 9-18 Bob Thibodeau scored twice.
S Williams, RW 29 18 27 45 27-62
the stone monument, and a few feet away, flowers bloom. Why, you Nyrop, D 9 )8 The stickmen again took it on the chin against
2 )J 29 18-44
wonder, couldn't spring be eternal in just this one case? 2S S.Curry, D 36 9 28 37 23-46 Colorado College, losing 15-5, but played surprisingly The people, however, Gipp's friends and neighbors, have reconciled 19 Israelson, LW 36 21 14 35 8-16 well, holding the lacrosse powerhouse to anevenscore 
8 Walsh, C · 29 17 17 34 16-40
themselves to their unholy fate-200 inches of snow every year com­at halftime. However, numerous fundamental errors
9 Conroy, C 36 9 2S 34 8-16
mencing in October and ending (?) by May . All this white stuff-more 20 Pirus, RW 28 B 16 24 11-22 a~d fatigue in the second half did the Irish in. Tar­than could fill a South Bend manhole-has had a distinct effect on Copper 4 Schafer, nw 36 6 17 23 10-20 now, a junior from Seneca Falls, N.Y., and Volpe Country residents, and a meaningful one it is indeed. 21 Hamilton, LW 33 9 12 21 13-26 (Huntington Station, N.Y.) were able to sneak two
10 Clarke, D 34 l 10 ll 10-20
Somehow the' word hospitality just can't perfectly describe these goals each past the CC goalie, and Caron added the
7 Brownschidle, D 36 2 7 9 12-24
modern-day Nanooks. They're better than that. Everywhere, there was 3 Bourque, D 26 1 6 7 8-16 other . someone, a smile on his face, ready to lend you a helping hand. John 22 Tardani, LW 36 1 3 4 7-14 There were a few bright spots on the trip, one 
0

Davis, a Michigan Tech grad, even treated members of the enemy media 6 Larson, D 29 4 4 10-20 being the play of freshman Jay Williams. Ball
26 011ve, C 5 2 l .3 l-2
to lunch at his place of business, The Library. He was just one of those Byers, RW 19 1 3 3-6 control is extremely important in lacrosse, and
l3 2 

persons who got pleasure making havoc of your expense account. 18 Karsnia, C 3 1 0 l 0-0 Williams, who battles for faceoffs, won 16 of 21 It's funny, but South Benders looks at the rotund Davis, modishly at­14 Novitzki, LW 36 0 l l S-10 against Air Force and seven of 12 versus Denver.
17 Augustine, LW l? 0 l l 1-2
tired, would provoke stares. You would never guess that besides his Throughout the trip, the opponents shuffled fresh
l Kronholm, G 36 0 l l 0-0
founding of International Frisbee Competition, he is also one of 28 L. Curry, D 3 0 0 0 0-0 faceoff men against Williams, but none of them Houghton's .leading citizens. The Houghton citizenry just accepts him 26 Baesy, D l 0 0 0 0-0 seemed to fluster the young man. 
23 Howe, RW l 0 0 0 0-0
for what he is, something we all could be better at doing. The play of Joe Lepley was· also impressive.
29 Smith, G l 0 0 0 0-0
You have to admire persons who are like this. There's always that Exhibiting mid-season form, the Irish netminder helping band-a hardware storeowner willing to open his shop at mid­NOTRET~ TOTALS ~ 159 272 431 nf=GZ9 stopped 21 shots against Air Force, 23 against Denver night if his neighbor was in need of supplies. Someone was always willing OPPONENTS TOTALS )6 lSI! 239 393 212-440 and 20 versus Colorado College. Goalies usually are to take you out to the school or to the airport at an unbelievable hour. No, POWER PLAY GOALS --liD )8 of 147 (2S.~) expected to stop anywhere from 10-15 shots a contest. hospitality isn't quite the word, but togetherness is. OPP 37 of 149 (24.BJ) O'Leary wasn't totally upset with the trip. "In my 
You think back to school, to Notre Dame and its togetherness. You like WORTIIANDED GOALS --1m 5, OPP S four years here," the Irish coach said, "we have to think that it will stay this way and foster itself like it did after New GOALIES Oms fRecord~ Ql Av:l SVS POT sa· never done well in the beginning of the season. But
ltroilhOlDI 36*14-20: ) 1501 4.n no .881 1
Orleans. You like to think that back on New Year's Eve, Notre Dame that is still no excuse.
Salitb .16 Hl-0-o~ 1 t.oo ~ .8~~ o
really not only won another one for Laurium's first son, but also one for lfotre billll )6li ( -26-) 154 .22 nr .8 1 "Added experience will be the key factor as I am itself. After all, the people of the Copper Country have been winning Opponents )~(20-14-2) 159 4.)6 1181 .881 0 pleased with the team's versatility and talent." he countless struggles for George Gipp, and they always will. I lhes not includlo 3 open-aet 10&].8 concluded. 






