Ou The Inside 
Senior Trip.•. 
...page 6 
747 Crash... 
...page 7 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, November 21, 1974
Vol. IX No. 53 

Views on Undergrad Priorities meeting vary 

by Greg Bangs 
Staff Reporter 
Reactions to the first meeting of the Committee on Undergraduate Priorities ranged from feelings of general satisfaction to those of disappointment. The structural meeting, held yesterday. at the request of Brother Just Paczesny, vice president of student af­fairs, was attended by Student Affairs officials and seven student leaders in response to the October 17 report on student life presented by the students to the Board of Trustees. 
The 70-page report proposed that a committee to study student life at Notre Dame be commissioned by the Board of Trustees. The purpose of this study "will be to investigate and evaluate the following areas of concern to students and their families: academics, coeducation. finances, residentiality and student life," the report stated. 
The purpose of yesterday's meeting was to organize and discuss the structure of the five subcommittees which will each study one aspect of student life. 
"I thought that it was a great meeting," Pacesny commented. "We got a lot done and are looking for­ward to other meetings. Today's meeting was a general discussion on the purpose of the committee, the extent of the individual subcommittees work and the formation of the subcommittees," he continued. 
Paczesny said that each subcommittee will consist 
of three students, one administrator, one faculty 
member and one turstee who will work in a special 
capacity. 
"Since most of the turstee board members live out of 
town, it is hard for them to make all of the meetings. 
Although they won't make a lot of the meetings, I feel 
they will nonetheless help the subcommittees," he 
commented. 
Outline of Subcommittees 
Paczesny and Pat McLaughlin, student ~dy president. will meet this Friday to look_ at poss1ble nominees for the positions on the comm1ttees. ~ac­zensy will also meet with Tom Drape, Observer e~!tor­in-chief · Robert Ackerman. director of professwnal develop~ent student affairs; and Fr. David E. Schlaver. director of student activities to elaborate on the purpose of the committee and discuss the membership requirements of the subcommittees. 
Schlaver emphasized thay the committee was not looking for experts to fill the positions on the sub­committees, but "for resources-people who are in­terested." 
"I'd like to have people, who are very interested in a certain aspect of student life, work on this committee. Sure, we'll bring in a lot of excellent reports and resource materials, but for this committee to be a success, we must have interested parties who are willing to work," Schlaver continued. 
"I think it's important that we get some new blood into the committee that will add originality and new ideas," Frank Flanigan, SBVP said. "However, these new sources will be kept in contact with old resources. For instance, if a residence subcommittee member needed material on off-campus housing, he could talk to Fr. Tallarida, but it is not necessary to have Fr. Tallarida on the committee, himself," he explained. 
Frank Flanigan also thought the five-man sub­committee was a good idea. "By breaking into com­mittees, I believe, that with small groups of four or five members, it will be easy to break down and discuss what we want to do in each respective sub­committee," he asserted. 
Dissatisfaction with Meeting 
Although Flanigan was optimistic about the set-up of 
the subcommittees, he was not satisfied about the 
course of yesterday's meeting. "Although the meeting 
was basically organizational, for a one and a half hour 
meeting, not much was accomplished. We got general 
feeling of where everybody's at, and we milled over a 
lot of things," he stated. "But I'm disappointed 
because all the good points of the one a half hours we 
spend talking seemed to come in the last ten minutes. 
However, those points were excellent," he admitted. 
"This meeting definitely got off to a slow start, but organization is like that," Ann McCarry; Observer contributing editor explained. "Organization is essential when you'r e working on a committee like this, because it's crucial to the success of. the com­mittee to clarify purpose and organization from the 
Mardi Gras felllale busing progralll to be abandoned 
by Ellen Syburg Staff Reporter 
The traditional practice of inviting women from midwestern women's colleges to Notre Dame for Mardi Gras weekend has apparently been ended by a new Student Affairs Office policy that prohibits the busing of women to campus for social events. Despite the new ruling, there is evidence that at least one hall is actively planning to invite women to the campus for that weekend. 
The traditional practice caused much controversy last year. The dispute stemmed from a letter, written by a female Notre Dame student, that appeared in The Observer. The letter writer stated that she felt the practice of importing women was unfair to the women already present on the Notre Dame campus. 
Fr. Terrance Lally, assistant vice-president for student affairs, explained the new policy, "We decided last spring, after all the uproar that the practice did not produce any lasting good for our social atmosphere. Busing women in is foreign to our idea of a good social situation," he said. 
Lally further explained that while the practice was designed to add to the fun associated with Mardi Gras, "it turned into a bad experience for the girls who came and the girls already here." 
Fr. David Schlaver, director of student activities, explained his position on the new policy, "This practice is something we have wanted to end for several years. We don't want it to happen again." 
Schlaver acknowledged that the attendance by people from outside the University does increase the profits of Mardi Gras. "We will be inviting other schools just as we do for all our activities. But it should be an open thing and not just geared to busing women from female liberal arts colleges in the midwest," he stated. 
Doug Cox, president of Zahm Hall, wants to see the tradition continued. 
"We feel that this rule cannot be justified and we want to see it changed, Cox said. "At present, Zahm is the only hall definitely making plans to invite women but I anticipate that other halls will join us when they are given the opportunity.'' 
Cox could not predict, at this time, the number of women that he hopes will attend but stated that Mundelein College, Chicago, was on of the schools being contacted. 
"As far as we're concerned, thosne girls are still invited and I think the prospects for changing the rule are good," he said. "If we are unsuccessful in changing it, I don't know what our position will be," he added. 
The Mardi Gras committee has not taken any formal action to invite women. Dan Sullivan, chairman of the committee stated, "The Mardi Gras committee is currently negotiating with the Student Activities Office in hopes of finding a way to reach a social equilibrium on campus during the Mardi Gras weekend." 

start," she continued. 
Assistant Dean of Students Mary C. McCabe didn't think the meeting was a s productive as it could have been. "I was disappointed because I was expecting that we would come, set up committees and start work. We have the mandate to begin work from the Board of Trustees, but we didn't" she said. 
Flanigan expressed further dismay with the meeting. "I was very disappointed with the attitude of some of the people who felt susrJCnding the SLC was requried to get this meeting off the ground," he stated. 
"This report is supposed to be a "mini-coup" (Committee on University Priorities J report, but I don't remember the SLC ever being shut down while that report was being formulated, Flainigan said. 
"I don't see why the important governing body that looks over everyday problems shoudl be shut down while the committee investigates the long range problems of campus life. At the same time, I think it's important that a review of the SLC and its purpose be reviewed within the committee's investigation," he \'Ontinued. 
Futm·e of Committee Optimistic 
All of the committee members questioned ~ere optimistic and hopeful of the committee's future, regardless of their opinions on yesterday's meeting. 
Schlaver and Dean of Students John Macheca were 
hopeful about the committee's purpose and future. 
"I'm very optimistic. Everybody appears to be in­
terested and seems to have things in mind that they 
hope will get accomplished," Macheca commented. 
Flanigan thought that "by looking at long range 
aspects, life at Notre Dame for all people, students, 
administrators and faculty members can be per­
manently improved, not temporarily adjusted." 
"However," Flanigan continued, "I thought Pat 
McLaughlin made an analogy that best summed up the 
purpose of this committee. He said 'In the past year or 
so we've been using stop gap measures for the 
problems here. We've been plugging the dam. What 
this committee wants to do is get tothe base of the 
problems before the dam breaks.' " 

All ND students can get Orange BowI tix 
by Mark Jahne Starr Reporter 
Any Notre Dame student desiring a ticket for this year's Orange Bowl contest will be able to get one, according to Ticket Manager Donald Bouffard. 
"We will sell tickets to students as long as the demand dictates," Bouffard noted. 
Beginning Monday, November 25 at 9 a.m. and continuing until Wednesday, November 27 at 4 p.m., 1,000 tickets at $8.50 will be sold, with an unlimited amount of $7.00 seats available. 
Applications for tickets by contributing alumni will first be accepted on Monday, December 2. If thedemandexceeds the supply, a lottery will determine which alumni will receive tickets. 
Tickets will not be sold by class on a seniority basis because of the unlimited allotment. However, each student may purchase only ticket, and present only his or her own LD. card. Married students, upon proof of marriage, may purchase a second ticket for their spouse. 
Mr. Bouffard expressed the hope that although these tickets are going on sale before the Southern Cal game, students interested will still choose to buy one. The reason for such an early sales date is because all unsold. tickets must be returned to the Orange Bowl Committee as soon as possible. 
No security plans are being made since, "a student is guaranteed an Orange Bowl ticket if he wants one." The exact N.D. overall allotment has not yet been announced, but Bouffard expects it be around 15,000 seats. 
It still appears that St. Mary's students may have to go without tickets. According to the Athletic Department bulletin, "If tickets remain after Notre Dame students and contributing alumni are ac­commodated, tickets will be sold to St. Mary's students." Any possible SMC sales will be an­nounced in The Observer. 




_ TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544
Sprl·nglrl·shstudl·esoffered~~-~~leg_R_:!_~_c_h_ro_~_c_~_~_hl_~-~----------~=====~==~ 
the observer Thursday, November 21, 1974 
warld briefs 
Washington UPI-The United Mine Workers bargaining council, in a move certain to extend the nine-day-old coal strike into December, Wednesday instructed union negotiators to seek minor adjustments in the new contract agreement. 
Washington UPI -The Senate voted Wednesday to deny all but $200,000 of the $850,000 recommended by President Ford to help Richard M. Nixon return to private life. 
San Francisco llPI-The FBI Wednesday discounted reports that fugitive heiress Patricia Hearst, missing now for nine and a half months, had been seen in Nashville, Tenn. 
Heavily armed police surrounded a house in Nashville late Tuesday night after receiving a tip that a women resembling Miss Hearst had been staying inside, but she was not there. 
an c:ampus taday 
4:00pm. colloquium, "the early universe," rm. 118 nieuwland. 
4:30pm. reilly lecture series, "low temperature photochemistry," rm. 123, nieuwland. 
4:30pm-colloquium, "groups generated by (3,4) -transpositions," rm. 226, comp. center. 
7:30pm. lecture, "alcoholism," holy cross hall, smc. 
8:00pm. meeting, regional alumni senate, cce. 
8:00pm. concert, maurice andre and the wuerttemberg chamber orchestra, o'laughlln aud., $2 for students and S3 for non-students. 
by Kathy Skiba Starr Reporter 
Michael Scott, dean of the School of Irish Studies will meet with faculty and students in St. Mary's Stapleton Lounge at 3 p.m. today, to present a program of foreign studies in Ireland. 
The School of Irish Studies, located in Dublin, Ireland , offers students the opportunity to live and study abroad for one-semester terms. Under the program, students live with Irish families and take up to five three-crPdit l"ourses at the school. Credits are normally transferable to the students' own college transcripts. 
Ms. Gail Mandell, assistant to the vice president for academic affairs, noted that a handful of St. Mary's students have participated in the Dublin Program in the past. 


"THE NAZZ" 
Presents 

JAZZ NIGHT 
with 
ND JAZZ BAND & COIV\8 
Friday at 10:00 P.M. Saturday -3 sets of music Starting At 10:00 P.M. PLACE-BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT GOVT. SPGJSORED Admission Free 
"Dean Scott is touring colleges which have had students par­ticipating in the program. He will meet with students, faculty, and a few department chairmen and will be available for questions," she explained. 
Irish literature, language and history are among the fields open to foreign students during the spring semester, which opens January 29 and continues through May 23. Apolitical science course and an archaeology course will also be offered. 
Study in Dublin affords students the chance to meet with several noted Irish lecturers who will appear at the school as well as the opportunity to visit such sites as Dublin Castle, St. Patrick's Cathedral and the National Museum and Library. December 1 is the deadline for spring semester applications. 

Nixon court-med exam pending 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The three court-appointed doctors are trying to arrange to conduct their medical examina­tion of former President Rich­ard M. Nixon next Monday, it was disclosed today.
Nixon's attorney Herbert J. 
Miller Jr. reported on the medical 
panel's efforts during a surprise 
appearance before U.S. District 
Court Judge John J. Sirica, who 
had asked the physicians to 
determinewhetherNixon is too sick 
to testify or provide. a deposition 
for the Watergate cover-up trial. 
Miller said he talked by 
telephone last Wednesday with Dr. 
Charles Hufnage., chairman of the medical panel. "He said he was trying to arrange the examination of the records and of the former ~~~;~dent for next Monday," Miller 
But Miller urged that Sirica not 
make public the former president's medical history. Sirica agreed that it does not have to be included in the doctors' findings. 
The judge also reassured Miller 
that Nixon would not have to foot the bill for the examination, even if his own doctors are called in as 
consultants. Nixon, who has been subpenaed
by defendant and former aid John 
D. Ehrlichman, is recuperating at his San Clemente, California, estate from near fatal com­plications following surgery last month for recurrent blood clotting 


CHECK 
YOUR 

OPTIONS 
INTERVIEW KOPPERS COMPANY, INC. 

chemical engineers, mechanical engineers, industrial engineers and metallurgical engineers. 
We'll be interviewing at University of Notre Dame 
Let us tell you about your opportunities with a large and growing company. Arrange for an interview at your Placement Office, or write to Karen Hammer, Supervisor of College Relations, Koppers Company, Inc., 200 Koppers Building, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15219. 

~~ 8600 ~()~
~~~·~ -,,.,p••.::s~:teS... ~...:· ..-·,_ ' ..:~--ci ,· 
• 4 
.:.;., ~ 
~ HAIR CARE FOR MEN 
12/5/74 
Koppers Company, Inc. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219 
KOPPERS 
Chemicals and Coatings Plastics Engineered Products Environmental Systems Engineering 
and Construction Architectural and Construction Materials 

----------~---­

~~-­
. ­
--~.~,:..-y-,-N-o-ve_m_b_e_r 2-1,-19_74_ the obs~·rver 3 ~ 
----~~~==~~~~--~~~~~~~----~ 

Senior honorary degree nominations sought 
The committee was instituted by Conklin. "The four colleges and Committee, stressed that all to Senior Class 1975, Box 114, Notre by Catherine Brown Father James Burtchaell in one of the law school nominate one each, nominees should be "distinguished Dame, Indiana, 46556, by 5 p.m. Staff Reporter his first acts as university provost, the student body nominates one scholars, statesmen or public Wednesday, December 14. Each 
according to Richard Conklin, and Father Hesburgh and the figures who have displayed out­nomination should include a one­For the first time, the Senior Director of the Department of trustees account for the remain­standing ability and achievement" page biographical sketch of the Class Honorary Degree Committee Information Services. der." with the emphasis on "service to nominee. is seeking nominations from all the one's fellow man and social con­
The committee was created to

members of the Senior Class for In the case of the Senior Class structiveness." Members of this year's the recipient of the honorary provide a system by which the nominee, Conklin said, there have Honorary Degree Committee are: 
seniors could nominate a can­Nominations can be brought· to Ray Capp, Mary Ellen Henner.
degree to be awarded by the class been "varying levels of at their graduation in May. didate for an honorary degree. systemizing the procedure in the the Senior Class office in the John Malone, Jane Thornton. Burt 
Frank O'Malley was the first basement of LaFortune, or mailed Orr and Cathleen Uhl.
past. This is the first year the 
The members of the Senior Class recipient of the Senior Class 

nomination procedure has been as 
Honorary Degree Committee are Honorary Degree in 1971. extensive and as public."
eligible to submit nominations to 
the trustees through Father "The University awards an Greg Ericksen, president of the Hesburgh, and all nominations are average of 10 to 12 honorary Class of 1975, and Chris Fenn, subject to trustee approval. degrees each year," explaine~ chairman of the Honorary Degree 
Thanksgiving travel threatened 
GreyhoWldstrike cripplesservice 
dividual could take an Indian for a bus. Marshall stressed the
bJ Fred Herbst 

Trails bus to Chicago. This bus importance of being at the ter­
Staff Reporter 

would unload at Randolph Street minal early to insure boarding a and the passengers could walk two desired bus and to avoid any un­
The current Greyhound Bus blocks to the Continental necessary inconvience.

Lines strike involving 16,000 Trailways Terminal and make Although unable to project andrivers has "quite adversely af­further connections there. end to the current Greyhoundfected" local service, according to· Noting that Thanksgiving is one strike, Marshall said that he isTom Marshall of the South Bend of the bu'Siest times of the year, "hoping against hope that it will beBus Terminal. 
Marshall said that all the other bus settled by Thanksgiving."
Marshall stated yesterday that lines will be overcrowded due to Anyone having any questions 1 the Thursday night special 1 in order to provide bus tran­the Greyhound strike. Since it is concerning bus travel should call 1 ~ Isportation around the nation from impossible to make reservations the South Bend Bus Terminal.

South Bend, individuals are being re-routed on Indiana Motor Bus 
: 12" pizza--$1.50 I Lines to terminals where con­nections can be made with Con­
1 Pitcher Beer Nite 
I
tinental Trailways Bus Lines. Continental Trailways is the 
' Eat. drink. and be entt"rtaint"d by livt" ' 

second largest bus line in the music nightly <except TuesdaJ) AT nation <next to Greyhound) and travels to all major cities. There appears. however, to be : I
WHITE HOUSE INN 

another serious problem forming. Marshall pointed out that there is a f Now Playing I Yery strong possibility that In­
1 ••••••••••••••••••••• no
diana Motor drivers will strike at 

any time. t : THE FAITH : ~ver I 
If Indiana Motor Bus Lines does t ;.••••••••••••••••••; c. rge t go on strike, Marshall indicated that South Bend would be virtually I 2 8 3 9 N 5th t "isolated" as far as bus travel is concerned. 
\ t .Just X mi. north of tht" state lint". 683-9842 t Outlining an alternative if the 
t Take ll.S. 3\ north to Niles, then north 011 highway 5 3 miles. I
proposed Indiana Motor strike r Greyhound busses are at a standstill due to a national strike.

occurs. Marshall said that an in­


***********************************i 

~ SENIOR TRIP a 

: , a 
.. * 
.. * 
.. * 
.. * 
.. * 
.. * 
.. * 
.. * 
.. * 
.. * 
.. * 
.. * 
iC * 
.. *
• * 
.. *
* 
• **
• *
• *
• * 
t ATrENTIGJ: Everyone signed UD ~ ~ for Senior Trip to Los Angeles :
• * 
~ Pick up your trip package at : : the Senior Class office in the t
i t
Basement of LaFortune this : Thurs. & Fri. from 5-6 p.m. t 
.. *
• * 
: Each person must pickup his t 
.. * 
: or her own package t £ I.D.'s will be checked : 
**********************************~ 
~----------------' 





BLUEBEARD 
"A HIGHLY ENTERTAINING HIT!" 
Dorothy Manners, King Features 
RAQUEL JOEY WELCH HEATHERTON\ 

RICHARD BURTON 
Knights of Columbus THUR., SAT., SUN. 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 

.....
-----------~----------------------~~­
4 the observer Thursday, November 21. 1974 
******************************************************~ ~ 
i Experience the spirit of Chrisbnas1 as newr before. * 

~ * * amahl 
a &the
* 

a night : ,.,. visitors 
* 
*
*
*
*: A special presentation of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
Counseling Center oilers newprogra:rm 
New student aid offered 
by Norman F. Bower Staff Reporter 

Staff members of the Notre Dame Counseling Center have instituted three new programs for student assistance. The offerings include training in anxiety management and assertive behavior, as well as life planning. 
These programs are going to be conducted by two Counseling Center staff members, Marie DiSaba'tino and James Covino, both doing graduate study in psychology, and by a University instructor, Thomas Merluzzi, who is one of the center's counseling psychologists. 
Covino's area of concern is anxiety management as it relates to students. Specifically, he will deal with test anxiety and anxiety related to math, such as that caused by preparation for aptitude tests. Covino noted that this training is particularly useful when it deals with problems of social situations such as a student not reciting in class due to imagined pressures and fears. 
Symptoms of this condition are a "hyper feeling, change in appetite, inability to concentrate while studying and inability to sleep. Blocking, which is noted by memory lapses under pressure, is another signal of such anxieties. 
People with these feelings will be helped to interact with others more comfortably by using a method which emphasizes recognition of and coping with symptoms. Under Covino's instruction, people will learn real skills with which to combat these situation anxieties. Groups of eight or ten will work together. Individual counseling will also be available. 
A system utilizing tape-recorded instruction will also be part of the training. The tapes will specifically deal with anxiety managment, test anxiety and math anxiety. 
Covino sees this whole system as bting exceptionally beneficial to fre-;;hmen facing finals and seniors wi~h graduate exams. 
* "Amahl & the Night Visitors" is a : colorfully staged and costumed mu­
sical classic with an appeal to all : people, young and old alike. This is
* 
the first professional production ever

* 
to be performed in the area. There

* 
will be two performances only and

* 
tickets are limited. We suggest you

* 
purchase your tickets early.


*
* 
Performances:

* 
Morris Civic Auditorium 

* 
Friday, December 6 (8 p.m.) ~ Saturday (matinee) Dec. 7 (3:30p.m.) 


The program will be in full 
oper:ltion next semester, but mini­
sessions before the end of this year 
are bl'ing considered. Students 
interesled should phone the 
Counselir.~ Center at 1717 or visit 
the facilities in room 400 of the 
Administration Building. 
Marie DiSabatino's 
psychological services will deal 
with assertiveness training which 
in her words, "is needed to keep 
people from hiding true feelings 
and to make them stand up for his 
or her legitimate rights without 
violating the rights of others. She 
will help people learn reactions to 
harmful behaviors such as non­
assertiveness and aggression. 
DiSabatino's training program has three goals. First, instruction will be provided in interpersonal rights. Then methods of over­coming blocks to assertiveness will be taught. Finally, · assertive behavior will be developed and refined by means of active prac­tice. 
This program will be divided into three different two hour sessions with four to ten people par­ticipating in the work groups. There will be groups set up just for women, just for men and for mixed groups as well. 
DiSabatino stressed that these courses in development would be valuable for "all members of the general population, not just those 
SMC bike storage to be held today cmd tomorrow 
St. Mary's winter bike storage southwest door of Regina and thenwill be conducted today and downstairs in the elevator, said tomorrow in the Regina Hall Hall Life Commissioner Martybasement, room 12, between 10 Kabbes. 
a.m. and 4 p.m. There will be no Commission members will be oncharge for the storage. 
hand to store bicycles, and to issueThe project, sponsored by the a receipt to each student storing aHall Life Commission, is for bike.
residents of Holy Cross, Regina After Friday, the door to theand LeMans Halls. Augusta and storage area will be locked untilMcCandless residents may store spring, when bicycles may betheir bicycles in the basements of reclaimed, according to Kabbes.
their halls. 
A day in February and anotherThose who wish to store their in March will be set aside for bikebikes in Regina should bring them pick-up.
into the building through the 
Tickets:  Friday  Saturday  
Reserved  
seats  $5.50 & 4.00  $4.50 & 3.00  
General  
Admission  $3.00  $2.00  

For reservations and ticket informa­
tion, phone the Morris Civic Audito­rium box office at 232-6954. Tickets may be ordered by mail by sending a check or money order and a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: 
Morris Civic Auditorium, South Bend, IN 46601 . 
who are wrung out." She described this program as being fulfilling, especially for women who have been socialized into dependent, non-assertive roles. 
The training will be offered many times during the remainder of the academic year, but the first rotation will begin Monday, November 25 at 3 p.m. It will be for women only and will also meet on the next two Mondays. 
A course on life planning will be under the direction of Dr. Thomas Merluzzi. According to him the meetings will be "semi-structured group discussions about goals." 
After assuming the viewpoint that each person is more in control of his future than he may believe, the participants will be en­couraged to think concretely about interpersonal relationships, careers, education and private time. 
Merluzzi sees this program as method instruction in using short­term strategies and tentative goals to plan one's future. 
This system will be organized into units of three to five people meeting twice for three hours with a discussion leader. No definite starting time has been established. 
Merluzzi is waiting for student response before initiating the program. He hopes to begin before semester break if student interest is adequate. 
r;;;;;;;;-;a-:::1 
fL 20 Percent Off I E 
................................ 


Paperback books 

EIO-ZAO
Magazines Novelty items Paraphernalia 

~~~-·
]r&:

Town & Country .....:' ' ~ Original paintings Shopping Center · . _ . ; -·) Art supplies Mini·mall 
219·256·0111Mi.;;hawaka 

FREE! J PAIR OF SLACKS CLEANED AND PRESSED. 
bring this ad to: 
ROBERT'S NORGE VILLAGE 
1628 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
drop off your LALN>RY and DRY CLEANING take advantage of our excellent service and low prices. 
...................................................... 

~--·-··-----· 
5 

the year at innsbruck 
what can never be shown 

The town where poets once sought the and a couple benches along the way. More greater meanings of life, became the site for numerous, however, are the mass grave the "final solution of the Jewish question." markers, explanatory plaques, and blood 
Adolf Hitler, the architect of this trans-ditche&. This "park" was used by the Nazis formation, saw no greater meaning than for pistol and rifle executions. the execution of the fanatical doctrines that Through the camp and museum, the 
brought him to power. In March 1933, he restoration committee has made "an honest had munitions factory here converted into a attempt...to show quite effectively what concentration camp for Jews, clergy, and happened in Dachau." The attempt has "undesirable elements," forever tainting proved successful, too, because of its 
the town's name, Dachau. balance. The history of the camp system, After liberation by the Allies in 1945, most and the importance it held in the Third of the camp was razed. Since then, the Reich are detailed alongside the daily International Committee of Dachau has routine of the prisoners. The differences restored a few of the buildings as between the paper myths and the realities of monuments, and added chapels and the camps are closely examined. The monuments to the prisoners. barracks and crematorium, providing a The physical horror of the camp has thus graphic display of what so many endured, been eradicated. The walls no longer hold effectively complement the print and pic­men in bondage. The barbed wire fences tures of the museum. And thankfully, no stand clean of the blood of torture, suicide, neon signs or souvenir stands have yet 
and attempted escape victims. The popped up. 
Jorhaus, where uncounted thousands of men Despite these efforts, what happened can entered Dachau, is closed forever. The never be shown. Today, we can walk in and watchtowers are empty of guards and guns. out of the camp at will, and have had such Inside, the morbid serenity of the calm freedom all of our lives. We can stroll about 
after the storm fills the camp. Of the 34 the grounds, examine one sight, then move barracks once there, only 2 now stand as on to another. We can wear a heavy coat if it exhibits. The rest are marked by their is cold, or open up an umbrella if it rains. concrete foundations, and a block inscribed Because of this, we can never appreciate 
with the barrack's number at each foun­the ordeal of the people, who, thirty years dation. At one end of the two lines of ago, called. this place home. Once they foundations, the then administration entered the gate, they had no guarantee that building has been changed into a museum of they would ever again see the outside world. Nazism and the camp. At the other end, The barracks were overcrowded by hun­Protestant, Jewish, and Catholic chapels dreds of men, a fact of life that had to be have been erected. The rest of the com­endured. The food rations barely insured Dachau: the long dead prison of pain, which 
pound, including the area inside the barrack survival, and the clothing offered only The gravel walk ways now open to tourists gave birth to what is now the teacher. It 
minimal protection against the elements. were filled with these stunned and confused makes us wonder, how did so many innocent foundations, is covered with gravel. 
Just south of the chapels, past the main The huge sign on the administration men. These prisoners had no memorials or people get trampled in one of history's most walls and a small stream, stands the building, "Arbeit macht Freiheit," ("Work chapels to greet them, no assurances that vicious aberrations? What is God that crematorium and the never used "shower makes freedom"), constantly reminded anyone outside even remembered them. would let such things happen? What is man room" gas chamber. Both were built in them of their fate to hard labor. No one ·Cattle lived better lives, since they never that would turn such suffering upon him­1942, when the existant facilities proved could escape what tortures awaited them felt the humiliation and desperation of such self? 
slavery. As these men learned the ways of We may never answer such questions, but "too small." Both are now quiet, dusty, and across that small stream. 
cold. never to be used again. Perhaps the mental tyranny can least be Dachau, they felt the weight of the ax that Dachau implores us to never quit seeking. 
A path leads from the crematorium -comprehended. Men who had spent hung over their necks: the medical ex­The plaque above the memorial urn also through a small park a few yards away. The lifetimes as good citizens and fathers were periments, sadistic tortures, or execution. teaches us one concrete lesson, "Never park is well landscaped, with trees, bushes suddenly branded enemies of the state, and Near the end of the war, this gravel was again." 

europe on five experiences a day 
by carol ghiglieri and liz morte/1 
Going to Europe was our fathers' idea: The trip was absolutely unreal. We made turn searched to the back of her French night away -or so we thought. We dined just "What a better way to see the world and it to Paris only to be greeted by the famous vocabulary and came up with "Get Out of fine, but the dance left a lot to be desired. 
-
experience life than to spend a year in Hotel Minerve, who advertises "A bed in Here!" Not understanding English, this The Pier Club was the scene and the Europe?" Well we aren't exactly sure how every room." That was their whole ad­man stood looking at us -two frantic figures Stripper was the theme. The drinks were much of the world we'll see, but we'll tell vertisement because evidentally that was of beauty <? '? '? > No wonder he was staring. great though, and the glasses were really you this, we never realized that we had so all you got -usually!! We must have If he would have told us he was stopping in, exquisitely made. We should know -after much life to be experienced! received the bonus package because a we could have dressed up a little more -but all. we must have stared at them for every 
Before coming we prepared for human alarm clock came with our room. there he was, content and not about to two hours. everything, or so we thought. All the He was blonde haired and blue eyed, equipt leave. A few more screams gave him the One more important word you might want necessities, from Uncle Bill's long un­with no English vocabulary and two staring idea though, as did Carol's picking up the to stick in your vocabulary is lassative derwear to Grandma's homemade laxative, eyes. At approximately six o'clock am <the lamp as if to throw it. He calmly left, and <laxative). We ventured to find an effective were neatly distributed throughout our Europeans are never exact( we were we went back to sleep -for about one minute substitute for Grandma's Secret, long gone multiple one-hundred pound suitcases. We courteously awakened by this "alarm · until we realized what had just happened. by then. We walked confidently in to the then made our way to New York, ready and clock" who stood quietly at the end of our We were "officially" in Europe, with all its pharmacy and rattled off the phrase we had rearing to go -well maybe rearing anyway. bed, being careful not to awaken us too catastrophes. Do you think that's what dad practiced all the way there. After one week The airplane evi dentally had a different harshly. That must have been the same meant by experience??? of faithfull dossages, and later. desperate idea, for we spent thenight in the airport reason why he picked the lock -a knock on Paris was nothing compared to Italy double dossages, we had no results. We waiting for our fourteen hour delay, the door might have been startling! though. Have you ever feasted on fried consulted the nurse, whose {)nly response feastingon cold ham and mashed potatoes Anyway, Carol sat up in bed to pull on an squid in a butter and onion sauce, fried was a loud laugh. It seems we lost that prepared our stomachs well for the extra cover <heat wasn't advertized) and melon with ·vinegar on it, or even an somethink in translating and consequently eight hour plane ride. Thank God for air­caught a glimplse of him. She casually artichoke and egg sandwich? Thank God we been drinking eye drops! we aren't cured plane iohns 1 1 awakened Liz with an "Oh My God!" Liz, in brought Grandma's secret laxative. of our troubles yet, but our eyes are doing 
As far as the Italian men are concerned, great! everything you have ever heard about them Besides being chased. pinched and is probably true -except for their image of grabbed at. having no hot water for a week being short and fat. They are act1.1aJiy tall at a time, and figuring out which labor union and very skinny, and they wear tight-tight is on strike now-we have had absolutely no
the honor of your presence 
pants to emphasize the fact. You know how trouble at all. We are learning more from they say Italians walk and talk so very fast, our so-called experiences than we could well there is your explanation. They want ever have learned in the classroom -unless to get everything done quickly and get home of course they teach one how to handle to "peel" off those ungodly things. people. or one-thousand and one ways to
Extracts of the Minutes of the Gumms ­
Anyone who says that one must master follow a tour guide.
Buhndoggel Debate held on the steps of the 
the Italian language before coming over Seriously though, if any of you are Administration Building November 20. 1974. here is wrong. All you need to know is thinking of coming to Italy for the year, we fhe Debate opened with a reading of the ::Quanti costa, buen gierne, va via, no tecca heartily recommend it. The good outweights 
The honor of your presence
95 propositions as advertised on the door of mia. tu e brute, and dove Ia gabinette. In the bad by a landslide. It is an experience,
is requested at the marriage of
Sacred Heart Church. After brief opening case you are not proficient in the Italian and if you think we are kidding, just reread
Eusebia May Gumms 
statements a mostwondrousconciliation was language like we should be , they mean: how this article. We are having the times of our
and

reached and the remainder of the debate much does it cost, good day, get lost, do not lives, and will never forget all the wonderful 
Wilburforce Bundoggle
was taken up in expressions of mutual touch me, you are ugly, and where is the· -and not so wonderful people that we have 
at four thirty in the afternoon bathroom. met -and sort of met.
regard and elaboration of a composite in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. 
If you plan on dating Italians though, it So -Pack your bags and get your tickets,theory incorporating the saliant points of might be good idea to invest in a little dic­because Rome is waiting to be experienceboth the Gumms and the Buhndoggel tionary, just to be sure. Take it from vic­by you. You will never regret it for a,hypothesis The debate then ad­tims! Our first big night on the town was to minute. Besides, Father Knows Best ­journed to the meeting rooms of the Royal be to Via Venette, to dine and dance the RIGHT??
Geophysical Society. 
Top Photo: "Never Again" plague at Dachu Bottom Photo: Twisted Bodies Memorial to Victims at Dachu. torn from all they possessed. They were covered with the living corpses that could transported here, stripped of their identity, only exist, too weak to contemplate survival then compensated with number and prison or suicide. pajamas. Essentially, two camps are named 

---~------------~-------~~-~----------­
6 the observer Thursday, November 21, 1974 
:thus the senior death march: 
: comes to an end ... :
Senior class. trip discussed • • • 
by Ted Guth Ericksen asserted that all have such switching could result in the : Now, the :•Staff Reporter advantages and disadvantages, cancellation of the flights. "During • •and in the end are very com­passenger check-in, they'll be • • 
In an interview last night, Senior parable. checking I.D. cards; if the name is <'lass President Greg Ericksen "The departure times are not not on the trip list, then you won't discussed the upcoming senior really different, at most three be allowed to baard. So if anyone 



~ SENIOR i
dass trip to the USC football game, hours," Ericksen commented. planned on switching, they should 
l·ontending that no real "The return trips are also similar, switch back," Ericksen explained. • •• discrimination was intended in with the exception of the one For a similar reason, no more • • 
the placement of students on American flight which returns adjustments can be made for flights. Monday morning rather than in the anyone in either departure and While admitting that each of the afterrnoon." return flight time. 

i FUNERAL ~ 
flights was slightly different, The main reason for the dif­• •
Those who have signed up for the •ferences was the inability of any 
trip should pick up an information • 
~OJ•••••••n•••n•••••r••riiJIIIIW•••I one airline to handle all the flights • •
packet Thursday or Friday af­
at convenient times, he said. 
Night Editor: Mike Strlckroth ternoon from 5 to 6 in La Fortune
Ericksen also clarified the 
i Uncle Willie's i
Ass't Night Editor: Joe basement. The packet will contain
alcohol issue, stating that both the 
Kanabrockl United and TWA flights will tickets, direction, information •• •• about the Los Angeles area, and
Layout: Karlos Welnfurtner, definitely have "open bars," and • • Martha Fanning, Bob Varettonl, stated his belief that "there will be two baggage checks. On the : 12-5 Friday AFTERNOON : 
outside will be stamped room • •
Marlene Zloza • at least one or two free drinks on Copy Reader: Jim Eder and Bob the American flights, perhaps even assignments, flight and bus •• •
numbers and time of the departure
Quakenbush open bars on those as well." 
from the circle.
Day Editor: Gregg Bangs Regarding the assignment of 
i 25¢ beers i 
Features: J. R. Baker Each person must pickup his
people to particular flights, 
•

Sports: G. Corgan, Pete McHugh Ericksen stated "Preferential own trip packet; I.D. cards will be • • 
Typists: Jim Landis, Tom treatment was given to anyone checked. :Fr. Sorin will administer last rites: Modglin, D. Roos, H. U. Dyke, B. who made any special requests. On arrival at the airport in L.A., Norcross, V. Toblne Otherwise, the assignments were students should take the buses to • • Compugraphic Operator: M. pretty much open, except that SMC the hotel, pick up their room keus, i in front of his statue at 11 :30 aml 
Blinder girls were restricted to the and go to the rooms to wait for the •Picture Screener: Albert American flights because of the rental cars to be ready. The list of • Night Controller: Howard Halle airline rules." drivers for the cars has already • • 
However, switching of tickets been sent to L.A. and the contracts :Processional departs from there.: 
Happy Birthday Mason you big from one student to another is not made up. However, each driver • • dope! permitted by either the airline or will have to pay a $10 insurance fee • • ••••••••••••• the Civil Aeronautics Board, and 
upon picking up the car. 
~············································· 
Another Continental Discount Fare: 
STAND BY TO SAVE 





TO LOS ANGELES 
You come out ahead because we really move our tail. 
Believe it or not, our L.A. Standby Discount Fare on selected flights is only $104. And we have Standby Discount service to Denver for $60, saving you $25 off Coach fare. 
Then there's Night Coach Discount to Los Angeles for $116. or $30 less than Coach. 
We're also the only airline with Economy Discount service throughout our route system-another way to save, just for skipping a meal. Some sample fares: 
LOS ANGELES  $131  SAVE $15  
DENVER OR  
COLORADO SPRINGS  $ 75  SAVE $10  
ALBUQUERQUE  $ 89  SAVE $10  
KANSAS CITY  $ 41  SAVE$ 4  
SAN FRANCISCO,  
PORTLAND OR  $131  SAVE $15  
SEATTLE  

Remember too, a travel agent costs you nothing extra. so call one for the good word on all our Discount Fares. Or call us at 686-6500. At holiday time or any time, we can probably get you where you live. for less. 
All ldr ~~ dl e one WdY dlld 1111 ludl' ld\; dir porI '>t·c 111 ily ...,lll <llt~r qt· t'\11 .1 
We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 

Thursday~November 21, 1974 the observer 
7 
Lufthansa· jumbo jet crash in Nairobi kills 59 
BY JOSEPH RODRIGUEZ 
NAIROBI <UPI) -A Luf­thansa Boeing 747 with 157 persons aboard faltered while trying to gain altitude moments after takeoff Wednesday and plunged tail first irito a muddy field, killing 59 persons in the first fatal crash of the world's biggest commercial jetliner. 
Lufthansa said 98 persons on Flight 340 bound for Johannesburg survived the crash and the ex­plosion and fire that followed, including 12 Americans. Twenty­two of the survivors were hospitalized, some in serious condition, while others escaped with only minor cuts and bruises. 
Survivors credited skillful 
emergency maneuvering by the 
captain for saving their lives. 
The airline, which revised its 
casualty count several times 
during the day, said many of 
the bodies were charred beyond 
recognition. 
Most of the 139 passengers and 18 crew members were West Ger­mans. Besides the 12 Americans, Lufthansa said survivors included 65 Germans, 10 Britains, four Canadians, two South Africans, two Norwegians, one Belgian and one Austrian. One was not iden­tified. 
American survivors included two crew members and 10 passengers. An unidentified couple was still unaccounted for hours after the crash. 
The crew members were identified only as a steward named Scott from Hackensack, N.J., and a stewardess named Seaholme from San Pedro, California. 
The 230-foot jetliner had just lifted off the runway here for the flight to South Africa when it dropped abruptly and impact­ed tail down in the field about one mile from the end of the runway. It broke into pieces and burst into flames. 
Survivors said Capt. Christian Krack. 54, saved their lives by his skillful attempt at an emergency belly landing that sent the 747 skidding through the mud, leaving a 200 yard swath of debris but keeping the midsection of the fuselage intact. Crew members also won high praise. 
Krack lived through the disaster and was quoted afterwards as telling investigators "I was taking off normally ... the plane broke up and was suddenly going down. I don't know what happened." 
Lufthansa headquarters in 
Frankfurt  said the  plane  fell  
from  100  to  150  feet  -"it  
appeared  to  be  a  normal  

takeoff. We don't know what happened then." 
"There is no suspicion of sabotage," a spokesman said. "At the moment, we only have don't know what happened to the other two." 
"As the plane started to take off, it sort of shook," she said. "You know, bounced. It got maybe several hundred feet off the ground and then it came down again. We were fortunate to be in the middle cabin. 
"The door opened and the crew was fabulous. They got the chute down and shoved us all out and we ran. · With that, the plane ex­ploded ... It was such a miraculous escape." 
Mrs. Oppenheimer said the members of her Club Universe tour were from the Baltimore, Dallas and Los Angeles areas. 
Other survivors, some of them awaking from unconsciousness, went through gaping holes in the fuselage to make their escape before flames engulfed the craft. The tail and the right wing of the 747 were completely ripped off, with the left wing clinging on at an awkward angle. Mangled luggage, shoes,eye glasses and other debris were strewn over a wide area. One swimsuit ended up on a nearby weathervane. 

Airline spokesmen said the "black box" flight recorder had been recovered and investiga­
tors  were  flying  in  from  
Frankfurt  to  find  out  what  
eaused  the  crash.  

It was the first fatal crash of a four-engined 747 jumbo jet smce it went intv service in January. 1970. 
mysteries." 
Most of the uninjured survi­vors were housed at the Nairobi Hilton hotel, where manager 
CLASSIFIED ADS
Tom Lisson said they were "a little grubby but in pretty good condition ... " 
Mrs. Elbert Oppenheimer of Baltimore said 10 of the 12 Americans in a tour group survived the crash "but we 
LAST NITE 
L~~~~rt~m~~ 

CAIIIIGLLWWEIINUT 
O'CONNOR BORC.NINE 
LAWAIIIDDIHIIDal ~ 
TOMORROW! 
EMANUEL L IIOI.F prn«1ts AMK:BAEL KLINGER Production of APETER BUNT Film 
ROGER SUSANNAH 
MOORE YORK 
GOLD 
TUIIIICGLIII• An ALUED AmSTS -­
~ 

Phone 288·8488 for times & directions 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Sl. Mary's would like a singer with guitar to entertain at Christmas party 5:30-6:30 Dec. 15, 1974. Fee open. Songs appropriate for season and young children. Call Mrs. Pat Garreffa, 284-4150. 
CILA Christmas cards on sale this week: cafeterias, Huddle, and Library. $1.75 for 12 masterpieces. 
Records now on sale at Golden Dome Records, 804 Flanner, ph. 1487. New Moody Blues, $9.98 list, reg. $7.70, now $7.20 total. New 
Elton John (just released) $9.98 list, reg, $7.70, now $7.20. New Loggins & Messina $6.98 list, reg. $4.55, now $4.25. All YES albums on sale. Also every Fri. is ladies day, $.50 off on all double albums, $.30 off on all single albums. 
Do you need a ride over Thanksgiving break? Wilson Driveaway has cars going to all parts of the nation. For info, call Jim at 1694 after 11 p.m. 
Boycott all bars this weekend if no Senior Death March. 
Please return the mistakenly taken class ring from Campus View Apts. Reward. Call 277-0026. 
The world is your oyster. SQUISH! 
15 percent off on all merchandise, 110w until Christmas. Expert repair, quality guitars, banjos, etc. Sunflower Music Shop, 632 Portage Ave. 
Attention Seniors: Senior Death March Lives!! Die-hards unite!! Sweeney's -11:30. 
FOR SALE 
Must sell S. Cal package. Call Judy, 4343. 
Snow tires: two F78-14 on rims. Excellent shape. Used 1000 miles. $35. Call Lou, 234-8076. 
Fischer skis, Geze bindings, poles, Raichle boots, used 3 times. 233­8814. 
Phillips GA 212 electronic turn­table (new) Tharens TO 125 AB MK II with .B&O Sp 12 cartridge-2 new walnut Advents. Call 1487. 
Senior Southern Cal. trip ticket for sale. Bill Principe, 272-8879. 
For sale: 2 GA tix for Air Force. Cheap! 277-0019. 
2 GA Air Force tix for sale. CaM 8661. 
2 GA Air Force tickets. Cheap. Call 6800. 
2 GA tickets for Air Force. Call Joe, 288-7946. 
4 GA tix to Air Force. Call 8829. 
2 Air Force GA tix for sale. 287­2621. 
2 GA Air Force tix. 50 yard I in e. Call Bob, 3337. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms for football weekends. Close to campus. Mrs. Cooper, 272­3004. $3 a night. 

WANTED 
Desperately need ride to Mankato or southern Minnesota area for two. Can leave Tuesday afternoon. Call Joe, 234-8952 or Tom, 1152. 
Good opportunity for enterprising students. Established carry-out pizza business plus living quarters and apartment. Age and illness force sale. Owner will carry contract with good terms. Call Sharon Deering, 289-1394, First Realty, 282-2337. 
Need ride to Philadelphia or Pittsburgh Thanksgiving break. Jennifer, 4287. 
Need two people tor five-person house for next semester. Call 288­0144. 
Need 4 good Doobie Bros. tix. George, 277-0021. 
Need ride to NYC (Thanksgiving). Will share cost. John, 7289. 
Need ride to Washington, DC, tor Thanksgiving break. Call Mark, 3462. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area tor Thanl<.sgiving. Will share driving and expenses. Call Mark, 8732. 
Need ride BAD to Rockester, Minneapolis, or anywhere in south central Minn. for Thanksgiving Will pay. Jim, 277-0107. 
Need ride to Chicago Sunda~ morning. Call Mary, 4543. 
Looking tor riders to Washington, DC, tor Thanksgiving break. Call Kevin, 288-7375. 
Need ride to Detroit, Tues., Nov. 26th. Will pay. Call 1132. 
Need ride to Cleveland, Nov. 25 or 
26. Call Mary, 1250. 
NOTICES 
Manuscripts submitted to the fall 1974 Juggler may be retrieved from ihe Juggler office, 3rd floor LaFortune from 10:00-11:00 a.m. Thurs. Nov. 21. Artwork can be rescued from Michael Boland, 424 Cavanaugh. 
Rock dreams, Tolk,ein, Lenny Bruce, Hesse, Jung good reading and more over break at Pandora's Books, 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
Saint Mary's College summer program in London, May 20-June 
20. T.-avel in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, France. College credit available. $865 plus tuition. Call 184-4951. 
Students: buy your stereo equipment at Golden Dome Records, 804 Flanner, ph. 1487. 20­40 percent off on all brands -Ad­vent, AR, Bose, Dual, Garrard, Marantz, Pioneer, Sony, and much more. Over 100 name brands at big discounts. 
Someone took the wrong blue parka, Friday night at the Heidelberg; mine is smaller, 1 have the XL. Call 1372. 
ATTENTION: ALL NO AND SMC WOMEN. THE MANOR INVITES 
ALL  OF  YOU  TO  THE  
HEIDELBURG  INN.  THIS  
FRIDAY  AT  9:00  FOR  "THE  

HALL PARTY." BEER, MUSIC, AND FUN. JUST HOP ON THE QUICKIE. 
One-bedroom apartment in Crestwood. Appliances furnished. Noise, no problem. Sublet through summer. 234-5320. 
Room tor rent: excellent location and conditions. Call 232-4545. 
Room -$40 month. Near rides Privacy, kitchen. 233-1329. 
Married students: nice, clean, furnished apartment. 3 rooms and bath. 10 min. from campus. Available Dec. 12. $95 a month. Call 234-1946. 
Furnished apartments: 503 W. Jefferson duplex. 3 rooms each, first and second floors. Gas heat furnished. 289-6307, 234-0596. 
Very safe, convenient 2-bedroom apartment to share with one girl lor spring semester. $60 includes utilities. 287-5587 or 282-1367. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: brown puppy with black face, ears; white paws. Tues. night near circle. Call 4680. 
Lost: grayish glasses in tan case. Lost last Fri. Reward. 7884. 
Lost: pair of black-colored, wire­rimmed glasses. Please call 289­2757. 
Found: key chain with 3 keys. Near Bio bldg. Call Jim, 8685. 
Help! Lost one gold I D bracelet, initials C.A.D. Please call 8093. Reward! Please help! 
Lost: Texas Instruments SR-50 Calculator. Reward. 277-0167. 
Found: student hockey ticket. Call the Observer for info. 8661. 
Lost: brown tweed jacket. Call John, 6986. 
PERSONALS 
If I'm CM, I am interested. (Hint! Hint!) The nest move is yours. 
Happy Birthday Grace Hall! Celebrate with us Fri., Nov. 22, 9-l. 
Dear Library Footsie-man: Sorry I acted so cold at the end of the other night. Actually I enjoyed it. Will you be there again sometime? (How about tonight?) 
BBC.C SC.P.H.D. Hey Irish, are you seeing green? 
Sara, Have tun at the Doobie Brothers. Sob tear Duck 
Mary Helen: You are the ray of sunlight that melts the clouds and blows my blues away. 
Robert Plant 
Dear Roped: We liked the cab. But we're used to limo's. Remember you're paying for the best. 
J. & J. Enterprises 
Terry: Welcome "home!" The 4 Marys, Di and Mindy 
Robin: Get well quick you don't belong in the psycho ward. We miss you and God bless you. 
Terry, Mary & Mary 

... 
. . 

.. 
the observer Thursday, November 21, 1974 
Conroy confident of young Irish 
Before the current hockey season, Irish senior center Pat Conroy was naturally expected to be a steadying irfluence on this youthful Notre Dame squad. After all, he and defensemen Les Larson were the only returning seniors. 
Then, too, not much scoring was expected from Conroy, who for the past three seasons had been strictly known as a checking center. 
Well, Conroy is providing that leadership, and he has blossomed into Notre Dame's chief offensive threat. In the first six games, the St. Paul, Minn., native scored three goals and assisted on 10 others. Part of the explanation for Conroy's new-found scoring fluency is !tis experience in the tough Western Collegiate Hockey 
Association, but Conroy's summer activities also have had an effect. 
''Pat's off to such a good start because he worked hard during the summer on the weights," Coach Lefty Smith says. "He's playing his best hockey here in four years." 
"I didn't think the weights were helping," Conroy adds. "But I felt the difference immediately on the ice." 
And opposition teams saw the difference, too. Their defensemen, who used to easily stop the 5·9, 17G­pound centerman, suddenly find themselves looking behind as Conroy stakes around them. 
"I'm using my body more and skating more," Conroy continues. "I'm trying to get up and push myself, and so far, it has paid off," 
It also helps to have a pair of huge wings who can demolish any interference. And that's exactly what Conroy has--6-4 freshman right wing Kevin Nugent and 6-3 left wing Don Jackson, also a newcomer. 
Not only are the pair aiomg 

Conroy, but the senior is giving 
them a helping hand, too. 
"I just love the new line," Conroy continues. "The wings are now developing, gaining ex­perience and learning. 
"It's fun to work with them. 
Kevin and Don listen to you. 
They're ideal wings. I'm not a big 
forechecker, but I can get loose 
with them throwing their weight 
around." 

And Conroy's enthusiasm for the 
youthful Irish icers doesn't stop 
with his wingmates. 

"People can't expect things to happen in one month," Conroy asserts. "But this team is going to come on. 
"Everyone is learning to play with each other. And I think Coach Smith realizes that. We're a pretty well-balanced team. I'd really like to see us gain first or second and get the home advantage for both playoff series. With the kids we have, that would be a real con­fidence builder. 
"And Lefty has confidence, particularly in me. He says this is the best fall I've ever had, and that gets me psyched to work even harder. When the coach shows confidence in you, you have con­fidence in yourself." 
And Smith feels it is easy to show confidence, particularly with Conroy. "Pat's attitude is always toward the positive side," Smith says. "He's very easy to coach because he listens and owrks hard." 
Conroy has always been a hard worker. Since breaking into the starting lineup nine games into his freshman campaign, Conroy has made steady improvement, jumping from 19 points his first year to 34 as a junior. 
And with the start he has had so far this season, Conroy is giving much thought to continuing his amateur hockey career after 
8'!.!.~~r~~Y'"~~~~1 ~~~~~;~g~~~~ ~~~,~~~ l4tendo~:sl 
Yes, Notre Dame, there is an this three years of varsity com-provide depth inthe freestyle includes matches with usually rJ~ . . Irish swimming team. petition. Voted the most valuable events and may challenge in the 50-strong Purude, Bowling Green, 241 ~IXIeway North 
And without scholarships, swimmerthelastthreeseasons,he yard event. and traditional rival St. 1 m1. north of NO cheerleaders, and hardly any holds school records in the 50, 100, Among the other promising Bonaventure. Notre Dame opens . ~ uniforms at all, the tankmen are and 200-yard freestlye events along freshman prospects are Stanley its season Friday December 6 in guttar once again meeting the bleak with numerous relay marks. This Richardson (sprint events), Bob the Rockne Memorial with the prospects of an Indiana winter by year's captain, Kane has fallen Wordell (individual medley, Notre Dame Relays. Bradley, headquarters instruction making use of possibly as bleak only three-tenths of a second from breaststroke), Joe Covelli Wayne State, Oakland, Valparaiso, ;
Hockne Memorial Pool in meeti g the NCAA l"f · g
n qua I ym (diving), and South Bend John and last year's winner Drury · preparation for another season of standards in his 100 and 200-yard Adams product Jim Severyn College will provide the com-E . backstrokes, butterflys, and specialties the past two years. (freestyle). Veteran swimmers petition. verythmg for the guitarist 
ch~~~~~· coach Dennis Stark, the m~~;!am w~~~ner~ar~~~rn ef:rv~h~ g~~:y W~~~~h,M~6~~ryW~~d ~~b :~~:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:·:·:·:::·;~·~:.:.:..::::::::::;.t:· 
Irish are coming off their best Irish including a nucleus of three season ever with an 8-4 record last more individual record holders. year in dual meet competition. Bob Thompson, a senior from Included in that banner season was North Olmsted, Ohio, will lead the the IOOth win for coach Stark with a Irish in the backstroke competition 57-56 victory over Illinois State in after settl·ng marks 1'n the 100 and 
th~~~a~;a~in;:a~~mf~~~!io~e dif-20~~~[~e~v:~~~o~~s~~as~~·agher, ficult task of replacing four of the record setter in the 100-yard mainstays of that team: captain butterfly, heads Stark's candidates I<:d Graham ( indivdiual medley l, in both the butterfly and relay Ed Strack <butterfly), Jim Fischer competitions. Sophomore .diver (breaststroke), and Joe O'Connor Bob Ebel returns after settmg a 
;;~~-y~~~fr~=:~~elhai~g:t~o\~: N··-Thl;"'ye;~r:~rnt~~~~--i~~i~des "The tw~ big q~es~i~n marks are J{SPECIAlS Cl\J TUESDAY AND THURSDAYt~ 
Dame's swimming records. m thirteen freshmen including high 10 can ftll the md1v1~~al medley;:;: ;:;: Helping to soothe the sting of school sprint All-American Ed ;ld breaststro.ke positions. If I;::: Phone 272-9720 for carry·""' .I-servl'ce :::: 
graduation, however, is the return Fitzsimons from Mount Prospect, ad scholarhslps, ~ could have:;:; "VUI :;:: 
J. ~;one out and recrmted for these:=:·.·························································· :·:
of freestyIe record holder 1m 
Kane. Kane. a senior from Owings 

FRIDAY & MONDAY-THURSDAY 7:30 9:30 SAT.&SUN. 1:30d'~ og

1 n::!::~~~.e ·~·; : 
FRIDAY & MONDAY-THURSDAY 7:45 9:45 SAT. & SUN. I :45 3:45 5:45 7:45 9:45 
~ R 13uiler-tluu~e r=lix 

graduation next May. 
"I need a good season to be able 
to hook up with the Olympic 
squad," Conroy tXplains. "If 
things fall in line and I do have a 
good season, then maybe I have a 
chance. 
"But I wouldn't sacrifice our 
team's season for a good personal 
one. The team always comes first. 
If we do well this season, but I 
don't, then big deal about my own 
wishes." 
And even if those post-college ambitions don't pan out, Conroy knows he has something he can fall back on--namely a Notre Dame 
DEGREE. 
"Pat also works hard in the classroom," Smith says. "He struggled his first two years, but we are hopeful he can continue his performance of last year. 
"No matter what happens--if I try hockey and fail--1 have my marketing degree," Conroy agrees. "That's what I really like about Notre Dame." 
He'lllike the school even more if he can erase some of the bad hockey moments of the past four years while repeating some of the good ones. 

"My number-one highlight has to be my sophomore year," Conroy ­says. "After a bad start, we came on after Christmas to finish 
Center Pat Conroy, in the past known more for his checking than scoring, 
second. 
has added three goals and ten assists in the first six games this season. 
"We just missed going to the NCAA championship. That team then reminds me of the one we have now. 
Trick shots tonight
"And of course, last year was a big disappointment to everyone. It Paul Gerni, pool player ex­proved if you don't work, you're traordinare, will give a cham­just another hockey team. pionship pocket billiards exhibition 
"I still think we have a good tonight at 7:30 in the Pool Room in chance if everyone stays the LaFortune basement. Gerni, 
healthy," Conroy concludes. who puts on hundreds of "We're a young team, but we are exhibitions yearly and has ap­all together." peared on all three rna ior television networks, demonstrate a variety of shots and game strategies. 
The Social Commission spon· sored production includes audience participation and guarantees "fun and humor." Admission is 25 cents. 
Reilly ~hould all see action. :~~f .······ .......·.··················\~~ In the diving events, Notre:;;;: 1-tave 0 BIG ~tite? ;:;: Dame should be particularly :;;;; ::;: strong in an area where five years ;:;:; · S \' ~ :;:; ago Stark had to advertise for ;:;:; "\/ \ :;:; ·· ·· 
competitors. Seniors Dan:;:;: ;:;: 
~:~~e~:!ter~~~~ s:pa~o~~r~u~~~@jAzar 1S BIG BOY RESTAURANTj 
will battle each other for the one :iiii if meter and three meter spots. ;:;: 5 2 8 6 0 U . S . 3 1 N 0 r t h ;:;: Coach Stark cited the Jack of ;::: :::: 
scholarships as crucial in :i:i TRY ()lJR COUNTRY fRIED Q-I~N :~:~ 
recovering from graduation losses.:;:: · ~ :;:: 
-.·.=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·::::::::::;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::i:::i::::::;:;:;:;:;:;::i:::i::;:::;:;:;::~:i: ;:: 





the Windiammer 
1637 Lincoln Way West 





