Oa The haslde 
SLC rule change ... page 3 In memoriam-Frank O'Malley ... page 7 · 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community Sunday, May 12, 1974
Vol. VIII, No. 119 

by Butch Ward and Terry Keeney 

Meeting on campus Friday, the University Board of Trustees accepted the resignation of Vice­President for Student Affairs Philip Faccenda and appointed Brother Just Paczesny C.S.C., as Fac­cenda 's successor. · 
Paczesny, who served as rector of Alumni Hall this year, will assume his duties as vice president on June 1. His appointment comes at the recom­mendation of University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
In other action, the Board of Trustees approved a $250,000 plan to renovate LaFortune Student Center. It also rejected a proposal to the University by-laws by the Faculty Senate that would permit the elec­tion of a University President outside the Indiana Province of the Holy Cross Fathers. 
The Trustees referred the report of the Com­mittee on University Priorities (COUP} to com­mittees for consideration and implementation of specific proposals. 
The plan for renovation of LaFortune renovation is the plan prepared by the student LaFortune Renovation committee in conjunction with the Offices of Student Affairs and Business Affairs. 
Major revisions include: 

-the construction of dining facilities for the "Huddle" behind the current serving counter and above the pool room. 
-the moving of student media offices (The Ob­server, the Scholastic, and the Dome) to the third 
Brother Just Paczesny 

Brother Just to fill vacancy 
Faccenda resigns to Trustees 
floor. -the conversion of the Fiesta Lounge into office space for Student Union. 

-the addition of a "Commons Room" for ad­vanced students. 
Dr. James Frick, vice president for public relations and development, noted that the Turstees wanted to approve only a limited proposal for LaFortune renovation. 
"They want to proceed with caution because of the tremendous money involved," said Frick. He noted that the Trustees may continue with future renovation plans if the approved proposals prove effective. 
"The Board is willing to do whatever is prudent to do to make LaFortune a useful, habitable facility," he said. 
Plans for LaFortune renovation are scheduled to begin immediately under the authority of the Office of Business Affairs. 
The Board of Trustees reviewed every aspect of the COUP report. They remanded consideration of specifics of the report to the various committees of the Trustees. 
"Not sufficient time could be given to the COUP report in the time allotted," explained Frick. "The Trustees felt they needed time to consider it." 
The Trustees voted to reject the amendment as proposed by the Faculty Senate to open the office of president to individuals outside the Holy Cross priests' community. 
"They recommended that the by-laws to the University, as they presently exist, be retained and that recommendation will go to the Fellows of the University," said Frick. 
Final decision on this proposal rests with the Fellows of the University. 
Faccenda, who accepted the position last spring on the condition that he would step down pending the location of a suitable replacement, will retain his position as General Counsel to the University. 
Both Brother Just and Father Hesburgh ex­pressed their praise for Faccenda with Brother Just citing his intention to continue the work already begun by the departing Vice President. 
Hesburgh added in his recommendation of the present rector of Alumni Hall for the Student Af­fairs position that he was confident of Brother Just's ability to give student affairs "the leadership it constantly needs." 
No announcement was made concerning changes to be made in either the present Central Staff or the present staff of Rectors. However, Brother Just said that those changes will be announced as of June 1. 
The South Bend native and 1949 alumnus of Notre Dame returned to the campus last summer to join Faccenda's newly-formed Central Staff in the Student Services head spot. He cited an image distinction as one of the main challenges facing his 


Philip Faccenda 
office. 

"We ·must. make it clear that the whole of Student Affairs is not centered in the Dean of Students Of­fice," he said. "It is important for all the depart­ments within the Central Staff to form a distinguishable identity." 
Brother Just announced the present formulation of a Student Handbook that will include not only rules and regulations, but also sections devoted to the "how-to-do's" of student life. He reasserted the purpose of the student affairs office as being one of devotion to the students of Notre Dame. 
He promised an expansion of the Off-Campus office that would include the hiring of a resident of Off-Campus who would serve as a liason with the head of the 0-C office. Brother Just also expressed the hope that weekly press conferences with campus media would improve communication between his office and students. 
Another important concern of his office will be the improving of personal contact between himself and those who serve on hall staffs. This concern, which grew during the Faccenda administration, was cited as integral by the new Vice President if Halls are to gain a collective identity. 
Brother Just began his teaching career at Holy Trinity High School in Chicago and since that time has served as principal at Reitz Memorial in Evansville, Ind., Holy Trinity, and most recently at Marquette High, Michigan City just prior to his arrival at Notre Dame. 
He also served for nine years as Religious Superior for the Brothers of Holy Cross, and for three years as the Assistant Superintendant of the Archdiocesan School system in Chicago. 
Academic Council to hear ammendments 
by Fred Graver Academic Council led by honors. This standard will go into amendment Monday to give final." This would elimate the Contributing Editor Christopher Nedeau. effect, if passed on Monday, with students six class days to decide on requirement that a senior must The purpose of the open hearing the graduating class of 1976. additions and deletions in course hava "B" average to be exempt At an open hearing yesterday, was to discuss and decide which of Student Academic Com-schedules. Students represen­from a final and leaves it up to the 
the Dean's Committee of the the proposed amendments to the missioner Chris Nedeau will bring tatives will oppose this, with a discretion of the professor. Academic Council aired amend­academic Code compiled by ·to the floor on Monday an amend­proposal to lengthen the period to Policy concerning the ac­ments to the proposed Academic University Provost Fr. Burtchaell ment to the proposal which will seven days. creditation of graduate level 
and the College Deans would be The deans rejected the proposed courses taken by seniors was also
Code, including a proposal to raise limit class loads in the Colleges of the requirement for the Dean's officially presented to the Freshman Year, Arts and Letters amendment to the Academic Code discussed at the hearing. An amendment will be proposed
List from 3.25 to 3.4 and rejected Academic Council on Monday. and Science to 18 hours. The which states that no cuts are stating that a senior may take any the proposal that class absences Proposals rejected today by the Academic Code proposed by Fr. allowed on the class days im­number of hours in graduate level not be allowed on days im­deans can be brought up as Burtchaell and the College Deans mediately before and after vac­studies, providing he meets allmediately preceeding and amendments at the full Council now states that students must pay taion breaks. 
requirements, and that the coursesfollowing vacation breaks. meeting. extra for every hour over a Two amendments were proposed in regard to final exams. A can be used to either fill his
The Dean's List standards and In addition to the requirements prescribed course load of seven­other proposed amendments to the for Dean's List a proposal to raise teen hours. proposal will be made on Monday requirements for graduation or Academic Code were discussed at the qualifications for honors at Dean Crossen will present the that no student need take more count as graduate school credit, an open meeting yesterday by graduation will be presented on opposition to the proposal in ad­than two exams in one 24 hour but not for both. 
members of the Academic Council Monday. This will set the dition to asking for a 17-hour period. A second proposal states An amendment to the proposed Executive Committee, the Dean's cumulative grade point average uniform course load in all that "at the discretion of the in­Academic Code will be made to Committee of the Council and requirements at 3.4 for honors, 3.6 University colleges. structor, graduating seniors who provide a uniform standard for student representatives to the for high honors and 3.8 for hi~hest There will be a proposed so request may be exempt from the . (continued on page 3) 

the observer sunday, May 12, 1974 ; •' .' "' ..., '·'' 
Eight honorary degrees. 
Park chosen commencement speaker 

Dr. Rosemary Park, professor of 
education at the University of 
California at Los Angeles <UCLA) 
and former president of Barnard 
College in New York City, will be 
the speaker at the 129th Com­
mencement Exercises next Sun­
day (May 19) at the University of 
Notre Dame. 
Dr. Park, who has been a trustee ·of Notre Dame since 1971, will also 
be awarded a doctor of laws 
degree. She received her AB and 
AM degrees from Radcliffe 
College and her PhD in 1934 from 
the University of Cologne, Ger­
many. She then joined the faculty 



Storage 
The Student Union has extended 

pick-up for summer storage until 
Tuesday, announced Student 
Union Services Commissioner 
Rich Golden. The move comes as a 
result of the disappointing 
response to the storage service. 
"It seems like everyone's 

waiting until the last day," said 
Golden. 
Golden explained that the 

Student Union must meet the cost 
of the storage service, which in­
cludes expenses for the rented 
trucks as well as the cost of the 
warehouse storage site in South 
Bend. After two days of storage 
pick-up, the Student Union has not 
New business dean named 
Dr. Yusaku Furuhashi, ·Chair­Thomas T. -Murphy, who an­man of the department of nounced his resignation last marketing at Notre Dame, has September. Dean Murphy, the been named acting dean of the fourth head of the College of College of Business Ad­Business Administration, will ministration. return to teaching in the Depart­
Dr. Furuhashi, who joined the ment of Finance at the end of this Notre Dame faculty in 1961, will academic year. serve while a search committee A citizen of Japan, Furuhashi completes its task of recom­received his undergraduate mending a replacement for Dean training at Sophia University, 
Philosophy professor chosen to receive the 1974 Sheedy Awar9 
Prof. Michael Loux of the scholarship are in metaphysics, philosophy department has been the philosophy of logic and the named to receive the Sheedy history of philosophy. Award for Excellence in Teaching The Course Evaluation booklet for 1974. He was chosen by student-recently stated that "no one who faculty committee from the wishes to take advantage of the College of Arts and Letters. Prof. great human resources present in Loux had taught at Notre Dame for our faculty here at Notre Dame six years and took his PhD from ought to miss Prof. Loux's in-the University of Chicago in 1968. terpretation of the main currents His main fields of teachine: ami of Western thought." 
.of Connecticut College, where she eventually served as president from 1947-1962. She was president of Barnard College and dean in Columbia University from 1962 to 1967 and served as vice-chancellor for educational programs and planning at UCLA from 1967 to 1970, when she returned to teaching. 
Eight others will be receiving honorary degrees. There are: 
Dr. Richard D. Brauer, Perkins professor emeritus of mathematics at Harvard University. 
Dr. Kenneth B. Clark, president 


deadline 
broken even financially. "Right now we stand to lose $5 000 or $6 000 " said Golden. "If
' ' ' . ,
we lose money on this thing, 1t s going to come out of Student Union funds for next year," he warned. 
Golden cited the problems associated with the Student Union storage. He noted that for the first time summer storage is under the auth~rity of Student Union, unlike previous years when the Senior class took the responsibility. 
Also this year for the first time, the Old Fieldhouse is unavailable for storage. 
"We didn't have the Fieldhouse this year," Golden said. "Not even of the Metropolitan Applied Research Center m New York City and professor of psychology of the City College of the City Univer­sity of New York. 
Mrs. Katharine Graham, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of The Washington Post Company. 
Patrick E. Haggerty, chairman of of the board of Texas In­struments, Inc., Dallas, Texas. 
Dr. Elisabeth Kubler-Ross, international consultant in the care of dying patients and their families. 


extended 
two weeks ago we got the place for storage downtown." 
Golden, who along with student Union Director Pat Burke and Associate Director Ray Cary, is running the summer storage, wanted to thank Arthur Pears, Fr. Riehle, the HPC and the Om­budsman service. 
"These individuals and organizations were really im­portant and I'd like to thank them publicly," Golden said. 
Student Union storage pick-up will continue through Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at sites behind the Bookstore and between Keenan and St. Edward's Halls. 
Tokyo, and Seattle University, his 
M.B.A. from the University of Washington, and his Ph.D from the University of Illinios. In addition to his teaching, he has continued consulting work to both American and Japanese business firms in the areas of market analysis and in­ternational trade promotion and logistics. He served on the Com­mittee on University Priorities which recently reported on the future goals of the University. 
"Dr. Furuhashi has the respect and admiration of his colleagues in the College," Fr. Theodore Hesburgh noted, "and is ideally suited to serve as acting dean while the search committee finishes its work." The six-person search committee is headed by Dr. Herbert E. Sim, professor of finance and business economics. 

Party Headquarters 

For KEG Parties: 
We have the newest and best equipment available I 
Pabst Busch Stroh's 


and Others 

Wholesale Prices I 
_'Edward  H.  Levi,  
president  of  the  University  of  
Chicago.  

Dr. William J. McGill, president of Columbia University. 
Dr. Eric Voegelin, Henry 
Dr. Rosemary Park: 1974 Nntre Dame Commencement speaker 
Any student spending summer in South Bend and 
wishing to work on 

Student Lobby 
Please Contact Pat McLaughlin 
at 3693 7668 
6111 


by Thursday. 

A wide selection of ... 
BE;ER WINES LIQUORS MIXES SOFT DRINKS and SNACKS 
Call Rick (233-1115) For discounts on large orders 




~~\JB 
Carry-out 1003 Notre Dame 233·1115 
Salvatori Distinguised Scholar, the Hoover Institution, Stanfor, Calif., and visiting professor of govern­ment and international studies at Notre Dame. 
All will receive doctor of laws degrees, except for Haggerty, who will receive a doctor of engineering, and Brauer, who will receive a doctor of science. 
A record total of 2,216 un­dergraduate and advanced students will receive degrees at the 2 p.m. ceremony. Included among the 1,678 undergraduates are about 
women who transferred as juniors to Notre Dame in 1972 when 
University opened its un­dergraduate degree programs to women. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
the observer 

------------~--------------------------­

~inian
THE OBSERVER 
,\1\1 INDEPENDENT STUDJ::NT NEWSP4PFR 
EDIIvRIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715\BUSINESS: 283~7471 · Tom Drape ­Editor-in-Chief 
Raising Cain 
Ann Me Carry Marlene Zloza Editorial Editor Managing Editor 
·-.. tJo!» Zogas Terry Keeney Bob McManus Chris Nedeau Business ~n.:aer News Editor Advertising Manager 1 
Sunday, May 12, 1974 

Probably the best way to characterize the decade I have spent crusading, cadjoling, negotiating and debating student rights in academia would be: "the pursuit of the uncatchable after the uneatable." 
Somewhere in transit I've collected a few perils of wisdom I'll share 
Acadelnic Council Pr0 po s a Is 1 with you now. This could also be 5itled: How to play power (less) politics. 
Indeed it is difficult to comprehend anything regarding academics at this particular time of the year. Yet the ac­tivities of the Academic Council toward the proposed codification of the Academic Code deserve immediate at­tention and clarification. For in an open hearing board of the Dean's Committee of the Academic Council yesterday, numerous proposals were discussed, including: maxim urn credit hour limits, no-cut class restrictions, raising of GPA qualification for the Dean's List, and student leaves of absences. 
It is imperative that the following recommended amendedments to the Academic Code are seriously considered for the benefit of the students as well as the faculty and administration. 
.. Proposal: The Dean's List and graduation honorsshouldbe raised from 
3.25 to a 3.4 average. Originally, it was presented as a raise to 3.5 
Recommendation: The Dean's List 
should remain at 3.25. Although the 
Dean's Committee has agree to the 
compromised 3.4 qualifying mark, their 
fundamental reason to curb graded in­
flation, is overcompensation. Regardless 
of any "national phenomenon," the 
proposal will serve a contrary purpose of 
adding to that inflation by merely in­
creasing profs' standards and students' 
competition. 
Proposal: The deletion of the proposal 
to make the days immediately before and 
after a break automatic no-cut days. 
Recommendation: An acceptance of this deletion by the Academic Council. The committee of Deans is correct in recognizing the unenforceable as well as unneeded inclusion of this proposal. This is an issue too closely related to the Academic Calendar which is scheduled for consideration in the fall. 

PI"oposal: That the proposed 17 hour limit h'l Arts and Letters and Engineering and 18 hour limit in Science and Business remains as Is.­
Recommendation:_ If an economic concern can be prov{m, then at least allow a uniform limit .of 18 hours in all colleges. The proposed 17 hour limit in AL and Engineering, especially, could stymie a student's academic pursuit. Since an economic concern was followed in the decision for a pre-labor start, it should not here either. 
· Proposal: An allowance within the Code for a provision concerning student leaves of absences after the provision's approval by the Academic Council. 
Recommendation: A defined policy for student leaves of absence and its im­mediate inclusion within the Academic Code. This would serve as a direct in­formational aid for the student and insure his re-admittance if forced to leave for personal reasons. The program under consideration is comparable to the "stop­out" policy endorsed by Fr. Hesburgh. 
Tomorrow the entire Academic Council 
will meet to decide on the proposed 
Academic Code and the student amend­
ments to that Code. The proposals and 
recommendations listed are of major 
importance to the students and the entire 
university. If the Council will allow itself 
to approach all the proposals with an 
open mindedness in character, then 
results are possible. May everyone keep 
in mind that the education Notre Dame 
offers is ours. 
-Tom Drape 
To Be Continued ? 
With the resignation of Dr. Philip Faccenda as Vi<!e President of Student Affairs made official by the Board of Trustees, Notre Dame loses a man of rare dedication and service. 
Regardless of th~ situationt, Dr. Faccenda would listen to the students. For this especially is he to be thanked. 
He is to be succeeded by Brother Just Paczesny, the third man to fill this post in as may years. 
The Office of V-P of Student Affairs was formed in 1972. At that time Philip Faccenda took the job, intending to serve only in a temporary capacity. During his time in office, he worked with dedication as if it were his life's work. Among the many things he worked on was a revision of the role of the Student Affairs office in the University. Thought some felt he over-steeped his bounds defining this role, he always attempted to deal fairly with students, and tried to establish a consi c;t.ent system of justice. 

In his ten years as Vice-President of Student Affairs, Faccenda has performed more than was expected in his job at the University. He made the Student Affairs office workable, and raised it to the prominence that it now holds. 
The torch now passes to Brother Just. 
He has a number of obstacles to con­tend with. Among them are the recent ruling on alcohol liability in Indiana and question of human sexuality and parietals on campus. 
Brother Just has displayed his skills in being able to communicate with the students as rector of Alumni Hall. Now it is hoped that he can continue to display skill in his handling of the office of V-P of Student Affairs. 
He has Dr. Faccenda's legacy to work with. It has a great deal of potential. He has our best wishes for success. That is nothing more than co-operation. 
-The Editorial Board 
Night Editor: Marlene Zloza  Sports: Greg Corgan, John Fineran  
Assistant Night Editor: Andy Praschak  Copy Readers: Pat Hanifin, Terry Keeney  
Layout:  Dean  Janke,  Norm  Bower,  Tim  Pictures Screeners: AI D'Antonio, Chris Smith,  
O'Reiley, Robert Baker  Andy Praschak, Joe Abell  
Features: Robert Baker  Controller of the Night (and entire production  
Editorials:  AI Rutherford  staff to boot): Joe Abell  

-Machiavelli said: "Power lies in the acceptance of your authority by others, knowing that if they try to resist you, they will fail and you will succeed." -By this defi.J:lition students must always play "good faith politics" with the administration. Unless of course, they are willing to melt the Dome over a calendar hassle. -1 have found that even the imprint left by a student strike fades quickly after those who can remember it have graduated. -Nedeau's answer to the dilemna is straightforward: "If you have no choice but to be agreeable; it is better to be more agreeable than less." If this sounds cynical. be patient. It is the result of ten years of mixing; 
idology, politics and the real world. You see first we are students. Which 
' means that somehow we must get: grades, into graduate school, along with our girlfriends, eventually a job and incidentally a meaningful education. But we deal with people who do not play our political game on a part-time basis. Their job and livelihood-have you ever heard of a priest on welfare--depends on handling situations and us correctly. Synopsis: ifwe-lQ~e the crusade we may pass Emil T., if they lose its the Bengali missions.' So.have pity, who knows, you could be assistant manager around here solneday. 
Still there? Great, because do I have an answer for you. Cheer up cookie! Take a shower, put on your Brooks Bros. suit, shine those shoes, march up the administration building steps and smile. They will be devastated. Without war pain, love beads and placards they can't figure out what you're up to. Never mind that you can't either, just be cool, keep your mouth shut and watch them sweat. 
And sweat they shall, for you now look so sweet and innocent they just have to talk to you and even ask you to the executive board meetings. Then you pounce--subtlely of course. You argue coherently for your constituency to the best of your ability so help you God. 
When it's over you will win. Because regardless of the issue at hand, you will have fostered an atmosphere where the two most important components of student rights can grow. Those two ideals, respect and responsibility, are what we must always fight for. Vague, of course. 
Important? No, essential. Ifmen respect you they will listen to you. When they will listen, you have half a chance. But the other half is the sting. After they have listened to you, they must grant you a priviledge few fathers ever grant willingly. It's the responsibility to make a decision and live by it. The right to be wrong and take the consequences. The right to succeed by yQurself. Until we have responsibility of choice and action we will never be satisfied. 
Maturity is a function of discretion and prudence. Do you grasp the analogy? .. Discretion, like respect, comes easily. Prudence is relative in time and space. And when have you ever grown up? 
If you thought the uncatchable part was bad, savor the uneatable. Respect, while never absolute is finite and attainable. But responsibility is never ending. How, when, where and how much will serenade you. Then a voice from above thunders: "Who do you think runs this place anyhow?" 
Bearing in mind that the gift horse, if given, might not be mountable. You look it straight in the mouth and retort: "all of us." 
Now you've had it. And you thought the Holy Cross fire escape was a hassle. Talk, talk, talk, then write an Observer article on why you talk so much. You will laugh, you will cry and after the whole blood, sweat and tears scene is over, you will need a scotch and water and about fourteen hours sleeo. 
But it is ·worth it. Things do change. That fact above all else remains constant. Progress made two steps forward, one step back is still progress. Today Notre Dame is a better place to life and learn than when our fathers were here. With students on most major university boards and committees the potential for meaningful student input exists. The ability of student supported news media to give accurate, in-depth coverage of campus issues lends you a valuable political stick to shake at bleary-eyed administrators. Finally, a realistic, experienced student government, and I specifically cite the two-year Etienne administration as ~he most professional group of people I've ever worked with, will do their level best to make sure that increments of respect and responsibility continue to accrue to the most important clientel this University will ever have--its student body. 
Yes, that group of fndividuals, who, whatever their personal desires and career objectives may be, are dedicated to making lives for them­selves and a world for others, better than it is today. As long as a student academic affairs commissioner can honestly say that; he need never doubt his right to strive to represent his constituency to the best of his ability and the end of the administ:ation's patience. And when he goes even further, I challenge his superiors to remember that, though clientel now, we are tomorrow's alumni. 
ln a few short days I will be an alumnus of Notre Dame. Like every senior, it scares me. These past four years have slipped by too quickly. In conclusion I will repreat some advice someone once gave me: 
"Treat Notre Dame as you would a good woman. Take advantage of her many gifts, nourish yourself with the fruits of her wisdom curse her if 
'you will, and congratulate yourself for the possession of her. But treat her with respect. When you leave her, as you ultimately must, profit from the education she has given you." 
,.....-------­
_.,· 

Sunaay, May 12, 1974 
3
the observer 

Milllllll-•' 
SLC appraVes sex code change 

by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 

A new rule prohibiting premarital sex, carrying a maximum penalty of expulsion from the on-campus community, was passed by a divided SLC on Monday. The rule now goes to Fr. Hesburgh for ratification. 
The new provision was passed as a revision of the present Rule 2 of the Judicial Code which simply states that "the University believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage." The new rule reads in part: 
"As a University in the Christian and Catholic tradition we hold that a genuine and complete expression of love through sex requires a com­mittment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in marriage. We do not try to force our values on every individual in every situation, but we do expect all members of the University to respect this tradition and 
hopefully come to share in it. Those 
who dis:regard this standard can ex­
pect to be challenged and may be 
asked to leave the on-campus com­
munity." 

The student members of the SLC brought up the need for rule revision in the last meeting in April because of the con­fusion about the meaning of the present rule which the administration used to suspend a student in the Dillon case. 
Debate circles around three main proposals: an initial student position that only a philosophy be stated without penalties for violation, the compromise position which finally passed, and an administration proposal which stated that "sexual activity outside of marriage is not condonded on this campus and is subject to disciplinary action." 
Mike Geisinger, one of the student representatives on the subcommittee which reported the proposals, explained "The students would really prefer no rule at all but we are willing to compromise." 
However administration members did not think the compromise went far enough. Fr. Schlaber called the maximum penalty of being forced off-campus "really not a penalty at all." 
Dean Macheca and Sr. John Miriam also cirticized the proposal for not dealing with case of a person living off-campus who is caught haveing premarital sex on-campus and for "implying we expect less of off­campus people." 
Dr. Roos criticized the administration for taking a hard-line approach, saying that he got the impression that "the ad­ministration thinks that everyone who is not for the strongest rule is 'soft on sex.' We agree with the general concern, the / question is what methods are appropl'i&te to handle the situation?" 
Fr. Toohey, director of Campus Ministry, speaking as a guest of the Commission, strongly criticized both the administration and compromise proposals for "excessively concentrating on le~:>lisms." The "crucial mistake" he said, "is putting down rules and penaltie! for a violation of a life philosophy. Toohey also criticized the "arbitrary removal oi moral issues from the control of the hall staff." 
In an interview after the meeting Toohey explained that the problem should. be ·left up to the hall staffs with the Dean of Students and Campus Mini;stry entering only as general supenisors. "This is something of a .. }uiisdictional dispute between Campus Ministry and the Dean's office," T()(}\'iey said. 
"I feel that penalties like being asked to eave the hall should be given by hall staffs Jitly in the most extreme cases," he ex­plained, also stressing the "need for mutual trust between students, hall staffs and the central offices." 
The SLC passed the compromise proposal on a 10-8 vote. Several members feared as Roos said, that "Hesburgh may very likely veto this revision." H he does so, the present rule will continue to remain in effect. 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIWIUWUU 
Alu.mni Association proposes .more un_dergraduate housing 
by Williar.'! Murphy Staff Reporter 
The Board of Directors of the AlumniAssociation called for more on-campus housing for un­dergraduates during the Alumni Senate meeting held here last week. The Alumni Board disagreed with the report of the Committee on University Priorities <COUP), which stated that available money should be put into the University endowment fund rather than used for physical expansion. 
The Board asked for the support of the University Trustees in seeking additional on-campus housing to eliminate overcrowding and provide living facilities for all undergraduates who desire them. 
The Alumni Board also passed a resolution stating that the University's highest and most distinctive priority should be to understand and adhere to its Catholic character. Along these same lines the Board suggested that the University maintain a predominently Catholic faculty and Student Affairs staff. 
The Alumni Senate, which is composed of representatives from the various Alumni clubs, also made several recommendations for consideration by the Alumni Board. Among these recom­mendations were: 
1) an evaluation of the efficacy of Campus Ministry, 
2) establishment of a program to enable alumni to donate a year of their time to work on special projects at the University, 

3) Alumni group ticket preference for fund raising purposes, and 
4) Encouragement of Alumni Club scholarship programs. 
Finally, the Alumni Senate applauded the work of the COUP Committee and its task forces. In addition, the Senate recommended that the report be updated every 3 to 5 years with results to be communicated to the whole University community. 
The Senate called for a con­tinuation of COUP's academic evaluation of the University and stressed that the University should only undertake new disciplines on a selected basis. 
Initial proposals-reviewed by Academic Council 
(continued from page I) 
academic probation at the University. The standard would be set at 2.0. Presently it stands at 2.0 in all colleges except Freshman Year, which varies from semester to semester. 
During the discussion of University withdrawal and re­admission policies Chris Nedeau recommended that the Academic Council discuss a "stop-out" program at the Monday meeting. 
This proposed stop-out program 
ND student wins 
1974 Honda from 
local radio station 
by AI Rutherford 

Special Projects Editor 
First, "Too high!" 
Then, "Too low!" 
And ~inally, "Jerry Zaucha, you 
have JUst won yourself a 1974 
Honda!" 
It was 4:10a.m. last Thursday 
morning, May 9, when Jerry 
guessed WRBR's high-low mileage 
at 11,906.4 imaginary miles. 
"We were all up late that night 
studying and doing last minute 
papers," Jerry, a Holy Cross Hall 
senior, explained. "So we figured 
we'd listen and then start 
narrowing it down." 
"Two of my friends, Kevin McKernan and Steve Beecher, were in the room with me and helped in the selection," recalled Jerry. 
Jerry will be presented with his 
CT 70 Honda on Monday, May 13. 
would offer a student the op­portunity to leave the University for a specified period of time and receive a "leave of absence" status freeing him from the responsibility and uncertainty of being re-admitted to the University. 
One other matter was tabled for 
future discussion by the Academic 
Council. The policy concerning 
grievance committees and honor 
councils within the University will 
be discussed at an early meeting of 
the Council next fall. As it now stands there are honor councils within each of the departments. 

Nedeau has proposed that as each case of violations of academic codes and guidelines arises an ad hoc committee be formed. The committee would consist of the dean of the college where the of­fense occured or his delegate, three faculty members from different colleges, the department chairman of the department where the offense occured, and one 
studen..:.:t.'----------­

SALUTE TO ALL SENIORS FROM YOUR SENIOR BAR 
BECAUSE WE'RE ALL IN THIS TOGETHER! 
Congratulations on your upcoming graduation and best of luck in all your future endeavors 
THANKS FOR YOUR PATRONAGE 

Jim '63 Chuck 
'65 



SPRING SPECIALS 
*Beer Specials Still On 
*Canada Dry Vodka: $4.44/quart 
* Pikeman Gin: $3.80/ fifth 
*Highland Light Scotch: $4.59/fifth 
* 
Vinya Rose: $2.00/fifth 

* 
13 Brands of Tequila Now in Stock For Your Sunri~e 


Have a good summer! We'll see you in Sep­tember-or will it be August this year? 
EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT Ll NE BACKER 200 yds. on left 10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORDE-R KEGS­
A MOTHER'S DAY SPECIAL WITH 




FRANK ZAPPA 
AND THE 
MOTHERS OF INVENTION 
and special guest soon to be announced 
Sunday, -May 12~ 
7:30pm 
at the Notre Dame A. C. C. 
Tickets are $5.50, $4.50, and $3.50 and are availbable at the ACC Box Office, Boogie Records and the other usual ticket ouflets in the area. 
PRODUCED BY BOOGIE RECORDS & KARMA-SHOWCASE PRODUCTIONS 

Sunday, May 12, 1974 the observ·er 5 
Lett: 
Ta R Lanely Gad 
where all the music will be laughter 
...,....NL rDil•r~ ...fftn 
Sometimes I feel Him as a friend who : United could become a very soggy place, prophets and stone those who aresentto board, swollen towns beyond the Ohio-;-you. stays with me without speaking, like a silent Iwith over-indulgence in both sentimentality you! How often have I longed to _ gather . can get an idea of what Bridgeport is like. If l 
guest seated at dinner, watching as the and Manhattans, if I were travelling by graduation goodbyes are said. His eyes are 1 myself. But. of course, the clouds are the constantly searching my face, counting / traditional' haunts of the cosmic bird watcher. teardrops and remembering smiles. He . I am not sure whether He watches me from knows that I am conscious of His scrutiny; inside the cabin, or whether He is poised like and He doesn't mind if I play to Him as to • a bareback rider on the nose of the plane, or 
the gallery of a theatre, showing Him how difficult He makes life by His demands that companions separate, and that life be full of changes which are as difficult as crucifixions. For hours at a time, I may never speak a word to Him; yet all my discomforts bear ;ith them pleas for His ; attention, like a prayer for heaven's gen­tleness. But self-pity is not a proper mood whether He walks to LaGuardia on the winds of the morning. But in tones like the voice of sobriety or of human decency, He will speak to me: "Just because they're free, you don't have to drink them." So I will order coffee instead, and wonder whether faith is any more substantial than the clouds 1 on which our plane seems to be resting as 
though we were parked on an ice floe. 
for prayer, and loneliness is a problem of 1 It always moves me to bring my dog, God's life also. Darby O'Gill, from the Emerald City of "Be a decent chap: don't whine," God says, Notre Dame to the Unreal City on the 'adding the comfortable words: "I never Hudson. He is such an unsophisticated little said I didn't love you." , pet to be for me a symbol of innocence and 
Losing one's friends in the great silences integrity amidst the urban ugliness and the 
of life or death that goodbyes bring, seems inner city sin. It is even more moving to 
hardly like a kindness from anybody's meet another friend from campus there, 
heaven, but loneliness is the predicament in innocent and lonely among the crowds, as 
which man and God perceive their need of much at home on Forty-second street as He 
each other. That is why God always waits, . is in the Grotto. As shepherd and vinekeeper 
when goodbyes are said, to pick up the and the friend of fishermen, He never said 
pieces for Himself, moving like a camp-He didn't love cities; as a matter of fact, He 
follower with solicitations against our loved them enough to weep over them. 
loneliness .. In His love, we jl_e sheltered as' "Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you that kill the your children, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you refused!" 
Itis very difficult for a man and a cocker spaniel to know how to comfort the sadness of a weeping God. But we never said we didn't love Him, either. 
"Even when the East excited me most, even when I was most keenly awazre of its superiority to the bored, swollen towns· beyond the Ohio, with their interminable inquisitions which spared only the children and the very old-even then it had always for me a quality of distortion .... I see it as a night scene by El Greco ... In the foreground four solemn men in dress suits are walking along the sidewalk with a stratcher on which lies a drunken woman in a white evening dress ... Gravely the men turn in at a house~the wrong house. But no one knows the woman's name, and no one cares." (The Great Gatsby) 
Sometimes I would worry about the places where Darby and I go in the summer, if there were not a third companion with us, met like a man on the road to Emmaus. The three of us, I think, love the wildness, the honky-tonk, the crazy rhythms of the City that always changes and never sleeps. "After New York, every place else is Bridgeport," someone said. The from the 
orphans might be sheltered'When they have no place else to go home to. 
Like nearly everybody else, I will leave
Notre Dame for the summer, feeling very 
lonely after saying temporary goodbyes to undergraduates, and the more permanent farewells to the new Alumni, who I am not apt to see soon again. The Friendly Skies of 
On Monday, May 13, at 5p.m. there will be a special Mass celebrated at the Grotto in the joy of the May-time and in honor ofour Blessed Lady Mary. 
You are invited to join us at this Mass thanking God for His blessings and asking for 
His kindness to the people of Notre Dame. 
Robert Griffin, C.S.C. University Chaplain 

there is aviolenceand horror and threat of death that hangs over the City, it is because 
l 

the City is, first of all, so alive. So many 
I

people demand so much from the life of the City. It inherits everyone's problems: the lBlack, the Puerto Riccan, the Jewish im­
I

migrant, the Irish working girl, the laborer, 
I

the laicized priest, the poet, the dancer, the thippie, the cocker spaniel, and me. People 
j

in all stages of alienation or defeat come to 
I

the City in search of a dream. Men and women, struggling for their dream, turn. 
I

upon each other in a rage for survival, and the nightmare of the City begins. 
I

In the midst of it all this summer-in the jungle, the sewer the zoo of the City-a small dog and a large man will be watching the face of a friend of the poor, counting His teardrops and remembering His smiles. Faith is the price of our ticket to the gallery and the drama played before us will be ~ series of daily crucifixions. Suffering, like loneliness, is a way that deites and dirtballs find their way home to the gentleness of heaven, when, out of human wreckage God picks up the pieces for Himself. ' 
So the seasons turn month upon month; from May til September, on campuses and in cities, and God broods with love over it all. There is sadness, there is laughter; but in all the changes that touch us from graduation until death, the lonely God, who only seems to watch and wait, is bringing the lonely people, who leave each other orphans, into the incorruptible friendships of the Lonely Kingdom, where all the music will be laughter. 
luck and the rejection letters 
by maria gallagher 
Luck is the name of the employment game for graduates and undergraduates alike at this time of year, and if the Senior Bar's recent "Rejection Night" is an indicator, the luck of the Irish isn't faring too well. If nothing else, ND-SMC students can pride themselves on an accumulation of the most distinguished rejection letters ever assembled, which in turn makes the recipients a pretty distinguished bunch of losers. 
A dip into the refusal refuse at the Bar revealed the nation's top corporations, law and medical schools, fellowships, banks, and yes, newspapers. Some of the letters would be almost funny if there wasn't so much spilled milk to cry about. And then there are the stories behind those letters that they don don't reveal, like the newspaper rejection that was number 201 out of 230, or the job interviewer who came out wearing a gun ... 
L-etters of this nature are brutal without exerting any particular effort, but some serve laurels for cruelty above and beyond the call of rejections. Yale issues a neatly engraved rejection letter on fine stationary, with the rejectee's name and address typed in rather crudely. The rhetoric is classic: "We regret to inform you of your non­acceptance;" "Congratulations on your graduation! Unfortunately, we have no openings . . . , " ". . . therefore, your ap­plication is being inactivated .. ," or "we have no positions now, but we will keep you on file until something to suit your talents and interests arises (i.e., never)." 
One reply to a Notre Dame student from the Joseph Schlitz· Brewing Company assured him that th~y would keep him in mind until"somethingsuited to his talents" became available. They added that all communications would be held in the strictest confidence. One wonders what type of job he had in mind! 
Many companies take liberties with a student's good name. One McCandless applicant for a teaching position received a reply to "Dear Miss McCandless." This same person also received a reply to "Dear Kathy." Her name is not Kathy McCan­dless. 
One Notre Dame student, Antonio N., was rather chummily saluted as "Dear Tony," then told he was not suitable for the job he had in mind. 
Similar to this. is the well-known form letter which devotes a single page to your lack of qualifications, receipt of your letter past deadline, insufficient materials or credentials, lack of experience and backgroud; in short, everything comes into question but your parentage, then it's signed "Cordially." 
And you'll all recognize this one: 
Dear--: 

I have referred your letter to the 
assistant managing editor's office, 
which relayed it to personnell, and it has 

love poem 
I burn no candle at your altar and incense never knew the hair and skin and eyes my hands and spirit knew so well 
when the wind and music called to us and made us dance in the twilight of our innocence and the memory of loving so child-like and so unadorned. 
But God gave me happiness in you and made me hear the laughter of a thousand hearts 
so let's have our picnic in the storm join hands and run ~ith innocence and tears of joy backwards towards the setting sun and love again been forwarded to me as vice associate second cousin of the assistant to the rejections editor . . . 
No mention of rejection letters can ignore 
the medical school's special touch: Dear--: Thank you for your interest in Marcus Welby Medical Center. Unfortunately, your credentials are not exactly what the doctor ordered. In any case, we hope sincerely that your unemployed, enenrolled status may soon be remedied. Be patient, and remember: laughter is the best medicine. 
Keep well ... 
One Notre Dame senior applied to Penn State for an opening in the Sports in­formation department. The reply he received was not this bad, but almost: 
Dear--: Since you failed to correctly answer our sports trivia question "What was Babe Ruth's favorite drink?" we are tr­turning you resume with regrets ... Finally, many Notre Dame seniors may 
rely on the following letter to "get their 
foot in the door." Dear--: Thank you for your interest in the · company. Although you have no ec­perience as yet in the business world, we will be happy to hire and train you for a position commensurate to your talents and interests. Your educational background is solid and you ambitions are high. See you at graduation. Love, Dad 


midnight prayers 
by thomas o'neil 
judy garland 
The legend, at center, is covered with light she moves her lips as the flood of emotion comes brimming forth from the breaking heart behind the voice that impels the spirit to dance or cry 
The yellow-brick road has reached the hill as the greatest of tragedies stands at the crest and turns to the heavens not knowing what lies beyond the edge she has already passed the fork in the road One way was Oz 
and one was this 
Now darkness descending a ruby-like star both leaps and falls 
as one more ignites and moves in the path of the same 

; II 4 • •
v,•' ." 






WE ARE 
MOST OF YOU AS PAST CUSTOMERS HAVE WATCHED US GROW AND OUR TINY STORE BECOME MORE AND MORE BURIED IN BOXES. WE'VE FINALLY HAD IT; OUR VOLUME HAS MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE TO SERVE YOU ADEQUATELY FROM OUR PRESENT LOCATION AND WE ARE MOVING LATER THIS MONTH TO A NEW LOCATION ONE BLOCK NORTH OF OUR PRESENT STORE. WE WILL THEN HAVE THE VERY FINEST DEMONSTRATION FACILITIES IN THIS AREA. MEANWHILE, WE ARE FACED WITH THE HUGE TASK OF MOV­ING A MOUNTAIN OF AUDIO EQUIPMENT. TO MINIMIZE THIS EFFORT WE'VE DECIDED TO RUN THE LARGEST CLEARANCE SALE IN AUDIO EQUIPMENT THIS AREA HAS EVER SEEN. BELOW ARE ONLY A FEW EXAMPLES OF THE SAVINGS-WE WANT TO CLEAR OUR PRESENT STORE TO THE BARE WALLS. WHATEVER YOUR PRESENT NEED IN AUDIO EQUIPMENT MAY BE, COME DOWN AND MAKE US AN OFFER. THAT'S RIGHT, WE'LL 
.LISTEN TO ANYTHING REASONABLE. 
TAPE DECKS WAS NOW
RECEIVERS AND TUNERS WAS NOW Pioneer CT-3131 5199.95 5134.50 Pioneer SX-424 5199.95 5149.50 Pioneer CT-4141 5269.95 5179.50 Pioneer SX-525 5259.95 5199.50 Dokorder 7200 5499.95 5389.50 Pioneer SX-626 5329.95 5249.50 Dokorder 7500 5599.95 5469.50 Pioneer SX-727 5399.95 5299.50 Teac 355* 5329.50 5249.50 Pioneer SX-828 5499.95 5349.50 Teac 3300-1 0* 1589.50 5519.50 Marantz 19 51200.00 5649.50 Kenwood KR-7200 5499.95 5399.50 
TAPE

Kenwood KR-6200 5419.95 5319.50 
BASF 1200' 1 1.50
Kenwood KR-5200 5359.95 5279.50 
BASF CR02 C-90 52.75
Pioneer TX-500A 5119.95 579.50 
ANTENNAS 

Blonder Tongue FM 555.00 519.95 SPEAKERS ADC 303AX 5100.00 575.00 CARTRIDGES Pioneer Project 100 5129.95 579.50 Shure M91ED 554.95 519.50 AR 2AX 5149.00 5119.50 Audio Technica AT-13E 564.95 521.50 DlNACO A-25 589.00 564.50 Pickering PlATE 524.95 s 9.50 Advent Utility 5107.00 Pickering XV15/140E 534.95 '15.95 
• factory Sale 

I I 
t 
I t I I I 
! rbeAudio Speeialists 
I r 
SALE STARTS TONIGHT AT 
OUR NEW ADDRESS WILL BE 
BANI<AMEIU(AIO • MAHEiiCHARGE FINANCING 

31 0 North. Michigan 

41 5 North Michigan
232-1611 
7

Sunday, May 12, 1974 the observer 

Prevene our actions, we beg you, 0 Lord, by Your 
inspiration and assist them with Your help, that our 
every prayer and deed may in You ever have their 
beginning, and once begun, may by You be brought 
to completion. 
-Translated from the Latin 
'by Frank O'Malley 

One of Notre Dame's few contemporary legends, English Professor Frank O'Malley, was buried from Sacred Heart Cathedral yesterday morning as hun­dreds, both on campus and off, mourned the passing of a very special professor. 
Mr. O'Malley died early last Tuesday morning after a short hospitalization. He was 64, and had taught at Notre Dame for 40 years. 
But to the students and colleagues who came to know Frank O'Malley, he was more than simply an English professor, an additional quality that was recognized by the University administration in its accordance of an extremely rare privilege: burial on the campus where he found his first and only love. That love wasn't for the physical University of Our Lady, but for the real Notre Dame: the people of duLac, especially its students. 
To enumerate those people Mr. O'Malley found to be the essence of his teaching would be more· than im­possible; even to describe their attraction for him dif­ficult, for each found something in Frank O'Malley that was unique from the others. 
To try to capture all that was Frank O'Malley through his friends would be futile. Each one approached always has someone else they consider just a little closer, just a little more intimate, and the list of friends and associates becomes endless. The most one can hope for is a few quick glimpses of a man whose influence at Notre Dame duLac was perhaps the strongest in this century. 
40 years of teaching 

Francis Joseph O'Malley was born August 19, 1909, in Clinton, Massachusetts. He came to Notre Dame in 1928 as a freshman and lived in Carroll Hall, then a freshman dormitory. Majoring in English, he graduated in 1932 and was the valedictorian of his class. The following year, he worked as a teaching assistant and completed his requirements for his master's degree in English. 
September, 1934, was the start of a teaching career at duLac that was to last for 40 years, sans sabbaticals. That first year, he taught freshman English and oddly enough, a history course. In later years, he ~as to develop his ideas on the philosophy of literature and modern Catholic writers and create his upperclass courses, but he never abandoned the freshmen. 
"He always insisted on taking freshmen, because th.at's w~at he thought was the most important," said DICk Sullivan, who teaches fiction writing and literature. Tho~gh he.g~aduated two years ahead of Mr. O'Malley, he did not JOin the faculty until 1936. At that time, Mr. O'Malley had been teaching for a year and a half. Bet­ween the two of them, plus another professor named Jim _Withey <who retired in the 1950's), freshman English was pretty well sewn up. 
"Frank used to deride me for not insisting on taking freshman classes" after he shifted his emphasis to upperclassmen, Sullivan remembered. "He used to call me up at least two times a week at the beginning of the semester and tell me, 'I've got the best bunch of fresh­men ever!' He was always convinced that each group of freshmen he taught was the best." 
Individuality came first 

But it wasn't simply the freshmen Frank O'Malley 
was ~onc_erned .abut, though they certainly ranked high 
on his \Ist. His primary concern was with the in­
dividuality of each person he associated with, either in 
the classroom or out of it, a concern that all his friends 
alluded to. "His 'after-hours' work was just as important 
as the in-class work," said English department head Ed 
Vasta. 
Sullivan agrees. He described the reorganization plans 
he and Mr. O'Malley drew up when the Arts and Letters 
College had first moved to O'Shaughnessy Hall. "The 
first sentence in Frank's paper read, 'The subject­
matter of the English curriculum is the mind of the in­
dividual student.' And that's the way we all felt about 
it." 
-by Joseph Abell 

Frank O'Malley 
1909 

English senior Jack Wenke describes this primary concern similarly: "He was concerned with the burden placed on students according to their curriculum. He 
worried that students didn't choose their courses because they wanted to enrich their lives, but because that's what they had to take to be a doctor or a lawyer." Vasta said the same thing: "He saw students as persons and education as personal enrichment." 
Perhaps Joe Evans, a very close friend of Mr. O'Malley's, expressed the feeling the best: "He has a great sense of the person, a great sense of the grandeur and misery of the human person. And he knows to whom he is speaking. And as he knows, so he acts-so he teaches." 
Sometimes that way of teaching didn't quite fit the normal mode: "Sometimes he'd come to class and sometimes he wouldn't," .. Vasta said, adding that the English office rarely saw him in recent years, as did various faculty committees and conferences. He came to dislike the idea of assigning papers; "detestable documents," he called them, and once expressed sympathy to Wenke for having to "start that hyper­thyroid activity so early in the semester." <He also once declared that "Anyone starting a paper with any kind of zest has to be a case of terminal cancer.") In recent years, he was forced to even abandon the classroom in favor of Lyons Hall Chapel due to his failing health. 
That special quality 

But in his unorthodox methods, a certain special quality came through: "He could instill a sense of nobility in students-in themselves and in literature," said Vasta, who had taken Mr. O'Malley while an un­dergraduate himself. "What you got from his course was not simply information, but a sense of the dignity of literature and of humanity." 
"He'd always have his students write about them­selves, rather than strictly academic matters," said Wenke of Mr. O'Malley's papers. "That's what he considered most important, I think: not what you learned, but how you applied it to your own life." 
"The spiritual well-being of his students always came 
before his own spiritual and even physical well-being," 
said English senior Joe Runde, who served as Mr. 
O'Malley's teaching assistant. His sentiments were 
echoed by Fr. Charles Sheedy in his eulogy of Mr. 
O'Malley: "His life belonged to his students." 
The in-class Mr. O'Malley was far from easy, though. He very carefully wrote out his highly-informative and scholarly lectures before each class, delivering them in a very forceful, positive manner, quite opposed to the almost shy and non-obtrusive manner he assumed when in conversation outside of the classroom. And to get the most out of those lectures, you had to work in a different and oftentimes difficult manner, Runde said: "To fully benefit from Mr. O'Malley's lectures, you had to apply them to your own life. It wasn't enough to simply take notes." 
Striving for simplicity 

Simplicity was also an important part of Frank O'Malley's life: "He craved simplicity all the time, but knew the barrier to that simplicity was his own growing reputat!on," said English senior Jim Pauer. "Ifyou said somethmg that was a basic, elemental, human thing, he responded in a basic, elemental, human manner." 
"He once told me his whole attitude," said Sullivan· 
"~e shouted out, ·~~'ll take care of this university: 
Dick; you teach wntmg and I'll teach criticism!' And 
that was his whole attitude about it." 
"He sees and he loves," Evans said simply. "And he 
has the knack of communicating to his students what he 
sees and loves." 
And .in ~i~ emphasis on simplicity and the importance o~ the mdiVIdual soul, Mr. O'Malley saw his own role in his students' and friends' lives, a role that Runde sees as on~ that col!demned O'Malley to a solitary life, and ultimately his death: the role of loneliness. "He wanted to love wholly," Runde explained, "but he had to love too many people to love one person that wholly." 
. Pauer: "Frank sacrifices himself to show us how to hve, bu_t .to purs~e this actualization, he frequently had to sacnfice the Joys of companionship." ..Ernest ~andee~ put it th~ most eloquently in his poem: 
When did you first surmise that yours/must be the gift 
of loneliness?/When did you discover that he-who is 
loved by all is' loved by no one?" ' 
Above all: his humanity 

Yet of all Fran~ ~·~alley's inspiring qualities, 
p_erhap~ the most mspmng was his basic humanity, wit~ al~ Its we_aknesses. He had his likes, his dislikes, his preJudices, his problems. 
~ut most importantly, Mr. O'Malley enjoyed the umquely human pleasure of human company especially over food and drink. ' 
"He could see the duality of the spirit and the earthy in m~n,'.' said Pauer. "Through this molding of flesh and spirt mto one, he could appreciate things like food-a meal-and drink in all its sensuousness and see them 
almost as a liturgy; and yet also as a part of a higherentity." "The nights we'd stay up till four in the morning!" 


-1974 
exclaimed Finance senior Chris Nedeau. "And the things we'd talk a bout! " 
"If yo,~ ne~ded to talk to him about something, he was around, said Runde. "You'd talk to him over dinner or lunch at the Morris Inn, a place he considered more suitable for converstion than most." 
Finally: the students 

But what nearly everything ultimately came down to with Frank O'Malley was the students. "The world of the students became his world," said Vasta. And indeed it did.. He ~as o~e of the f~w professors to live on campus durmg his entire teachmg career, residing at times in four different student dormitories: Sorin, Dillon, Morrissey and Lyons. He dreaded the move next year to Brownson Hall, perhaps because he would become just that much more removed from his beloved students. 
Near the end 

Howe_ver, in recent years, Frank O'Malley's reputation .began to diminish on campus. "The legend began to die among the undergraduate' " said Runde "mainly because he was no longer prese~t." Because of his rapidly failing health, Mr. O'Malley gradually retreated from his once-active social life, further and further into his third-floor Lyons room. For the first time in many years, he was forced to cut his upperclass courses from the roster and teach only two sections of freshmen, and even those classes were held in the Lyons Hall Chapel. "He simply cut himself off from his students and his friends because of his health," said Runde. 
He still saw most of his close friends: Evans, Sandeen, Fr. Sheedy, Runde, Pauer and Wenke, among others. Finally his health failed him and he was hospitalized on Easter Sunday. He died 23 days later, ironically on the last scholastic day of the semester. 
Frank O'Malley had friends and students much too numerous to cover in a single article. He had ideas and philosophies that will probably fill volumes in the future. More importantly, he had influence with probably more graduates of Notre Dame than any other professor. "He was one of the most influential men I ever knew," Sullivan said. 
Most importantly, though, Frank O'Malley was a man that few who met him will ever forget. "He was more a person than a role, "said Fr. Sheedy. "He was more a spiritual presence than a professional." 
~ 

Words to Frank O'Malley 
What have you done? You lie so still You strain belief in our mortality. We can't believe the body of your ghost, lithe .and fleet, has now been exorcised. 
Our scholar gipsy, you haunted the conscience of all our paths and corridors, you sharpened with light the shadow that was cast on what we yearned for in dome and spire. 
You christened writers of indiscreetly visionary words, the baptized and unbaptized alike, while awed multitudes of the young looked on. 
You gospelled four decades of rich and poor men's sons showing them where. the soul is. And each day you knotted them thongs to whip the money-changers from the temple door. 
When did you first surmise that yours must h· the gift of loneliness? When id you discover that he who is ,oved by all is loved by no one? 
For .nowing, as you did, such cost of spirit how did you decide? Or did you? Hr can a man, a mere man, decide to .nake nothing but himself his own. 
There were days we scarcely could endure the fury of that indifferent love that smiled or glowered in your eyes. 
Forgive us if we found it hard to quite forgive in you your relentless understanding of yourself. 
But we salute you now as then with love, across no greater distance than you always kept, immaculate and warm, between yourself and us. 
-Ernest Sandeen 

.J l 

the observer Sunday, May 12, 1974 
ND vs Georgia Tech on Sept. 9 
by Greg Corgan practice seven days early. The Texas on Oct. 19, and LSU at Sports Editor rules say we can have 29 practice Alabama on November 9. There opportunities before the opener. are also four scheduled 
The power of the media, or What that means is that we can doubleheaders being worked on as rather the power of ABC-TV have one practice for every day part of the national television exhibited itself all too con­our kids are in school and two for schedule. spicuously last week as Roone every day they're not. So since Included in the twin bills are Arledge, president of ABC ~;Sports school starts August 28, it means Ohio State and Michigan and announced that Notre Dame will we'll be permitted seven days of UCLA vs. Southern Cal on Nov. 23 open its 1974 season against work. This means the kids will while on Nov. 29 Alabama will face 
Georgia Tech on Monday night, have to stay in good physical Auburn and Texas will battle September 9, in Atlanta. condition in the summer. This Texas A&M. The Notre Dame-USC 
By virtue of the schedule change, could be an advantage for us, if we game on Nov. 30 will also be part of the Irish will have an open date on play the game on September 9, that a doubleheader. All other gamesNov. 9, when the game had been will give us an open day after our will be selected the Monday priorpreviously scheduled. Also as a seventh game." to the television date. result, members of the football Notre Dame stands to benefit 
1974 Football Schedule 

team will have to return a week considerably from the Monday night 
Sept. 9 at Georgia Tech 

earlier, on the fourteenth of August proposition. The school is rumored Sept. 21. at Northwestern in order to prepare for the opener. to be receiving an additional Sept 28 PURDUE The Irish were originally slated to $250,000 by virtue of the schedule Oct. 5 at Mighigan State begin the season on September 19 shift. Oct 12 RICE 
Oct. 19 ARMY

against Northwestern in Evanston. ABC's national television season 
Oct. 26 MIAMI <FLAl

Ara Parseghian looked at the of NCAA football will begin Sep­
Nov 2 Navy (at Rhil) 

situation realistically. tember 7 with Tennessee at UCLA. 
Nov 16 PITTSBURGH

"Since we play the game on The following weekStanfordwill be 
Nov. 23 AIR FORCE 

September 9, we'll open up fall at Penn State, with Arkansas vs. Nov 30 at Southern Cal 

Irish dump Irish, 49-0 
by Greg Corgan Eric Penick has his ankle in a cast, and fullback Sports Editor Wayne Bullock also was nursing a sore leg. Besides that, Russ Kornman and Tom Parise both sat out Head football coach Ara Parseghian speaks at the testimonial banquet 
It must be nice to know that you can't lose. But, the spring game, although both are expected to be held in his hehalf last Stturday night in the ACC. Ara was being honored then again, it must be frustrating to realize that you 100 percent in the fall. for his outstanding accomplishments at Notre Dame over the last ten can't win either. The first team went with a backfield of Clements, years. 
Such is the situation with Notre Dame's annual AI Hunter, and AI Samuel at halfbacks, while Art Blue-Gold football scrimmage. This spring, as in Best and Jim Weiler alternated at the fullback spot. the past, the question was not who would win, but With the exception of Weiler, each of the starters how and by how much. did their share of the scoring. 
And of course the big questions always have to do Best tallied about midway though the first period with the progress of the veteran players and the on a seven-yard jaunt, while tight end Robin Weber situations of the vacant positions left by graduating and Samuel caught TD passes from Allocco in the seniors. second. 


OBSERVER
As a result of last Saturday's scrimma~e action, AI Hunter started things off in the third stanza the coaches can well afford to be pleased with the with a nifty 25 yard scoring gallop while Clements answers. The Irish Blues racked up an impressive scrambled for six more three minutes later. Samuel 49-Q victory although by consequence the Golds had a 30 yard touchdown early in the fourth quarter 
SPORTS

absorbed an equally resounding defeat. and Hunter closed out the scoring with a one yard 
The Blue offense, led by quarterback Tom plunge late in the game. Clements, was superb. In accounting for their 49 While the Blues exhibited a prolific scoring points, the first team accumulated 379 total yards, machine, the defense was not to be outshone. The 276 of those on the ground by seven different Irish first team "D" allowed the Golds a mere 98 total backs. Clements, who was 8 of 11 through the air on yards, intercepted three passe~ (Bradley, the afternoon, led three of the scoring drives, while McDonald, and Marcoaldil, and forced the second back-up QB Frank Allocco also directed three, and team offense into 11 punts. 
Penick finds friend 
Rick Slager was at the helm for the last. "I think the defense is well ahead of itself," noted Head coach Ara Parseghian was pleased with his Parseghian. "We had a great opportunity to work quarterbacks' performances. this spring." "Clements has had a much better spring than he The defensive unit was lead by sophomores Willie 

in need at St. Joe's 
had last year. He's throwing with more authority Fry and Ross Browner at the ends, senior Mike 
and more accuracy. We started Tom as a Fanning and junior Steve Niehaus at tackles, with helped him even more than the sophomore, that means he was only 18 or 19 years seniors Greg Collins, Drew Mahalic and Sherm by Greg Corgan medication. The financial burden old and the added maturity he has now has helped Smith at the linebacker positions and sophomore Sports Editor on my son is going to be tremen­him. Marv Russell at middle guard. Luther Bradlev, Bob dous, he's grown so old in the past 
"As of right now our number two quarterback Zanot, Tom Lopienski and Reggie Barnettbeld down While recuperating from a leg few days. We really appreciate behind Tom will be Frank Allocco. Rick Slager the secondary spots. Bradley is a sophomore while anything."
injury of his own in St. Joseph'sneeds a lot of work, but he has a lot of savvy. Roy the other three are seniors. Hospital, running back Eric 
"He's such a good kid," addedHenry needs work but he has a good arm as well as The Irish, both the Blues and the Golds will return Penick has taken time out to Eric. "He's in here smiling andgood technique, footwork and accuracy." for workouts on August 14 in order to prepare of the concern himself with a situation laughing with all the guys thatopening game with Georgia Tech on September9.. It
The Irish Blues managed their 49 points despite a much more serious than his own. 
come to visit him even though he's 
multitude of injuries to the first team backfield. would be nice to know we couldn't lose. going through some awful pain.
The case is Steve Ray Singleton, a 14 year old eighth grader at 
The thing is that nobody will hear Middle Clay Junior High School about him. In these days when 
who occupies a room a couple of Watergate is big and everything, a doors down from Penick. Steve boy like this will never get any of Ray was admitted last Wednesday the attention. He's not going to be 
after the motorcycle he was riding able to play baseball or any of was hit by a car, severing Steve's 
those things as he grows up, and right leg and smashing his pelvis. he's going to need a lot of help from people because he's going to go
"Steve Ray is going fo be in here 
through a lot of physical anduntil December," said Eric. "He's mental anguish trying to getone of seven kids, his father's a through life with a false leg.
printer, and it's going to be quite a financial strain on the whole "We just want to do something family. In order to be able to walk, 
that will help his family get he's going to need an artificicial 
through all this. Contributions leg, and because he's only 14, he'll 
would be the best because the costs are going to be tremendous, but
need a new leg every year or so. 
he's certainly appreciated theThe costs of the limbs and · the visits he's had from the guys on thehospital expenses until December team. He's really quite a kid."
are going to be really high, and we want to be able to do something for Penick is trying to set up a Steve him." . Ray Singleton Fund which will 
have the backing of Ara Par­
Already a host of Notre Dame 
seghian and the Notre Damefootball players as well as Ara football team, the Notre DameParseghian have dropped into visit student government, and TheSteve, and according to his Observer. All contributions can begrandmother it's done wonders. 
sent to: "Everybody's been so great to
Tom Clements again displayed the talents which helped make the Irish 1973 National Champs last­Mr. Peter Singleton
Steve, we just can't thank them
Saturday in the annual Blue-Gold game. His performance prompted the Washington Post to add, ;. 54375 Bernice Street 
enough. It's given him such an
"Tom Clements roved himself to be a bona fide contender for the Heisman tro h ward in 1974." South Bend, Ind. 46637
uplift, and if you ask me, it's 





