
-~ ---~-------~~-------~­
OD The Inside 
Who cares? Happy April Fools' Day 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 102 Monday, April 1, 1974 
Banks tells of SLA • Hearst case 
Hearst would not give in, Banks stated that the area contains thret· by Sue Divita decided he and the AIM would get of the largest gold producing out of the affair before they got in mines, and th,~y are all owned b)·
Staff Reporter 
any more federal trouble. Randolph Hearst. It was in 1877 that the treaty was broken b\· 

Dennis Banks, national Banks said though he condemns William Randolph Hearst anct executive director of the American kidnapping, he feels the SLA is whites entered the area. Indian Movement <AIM) spoke calling to attention the desperate Friday on his organization's in­needs for people everywhere to The Indians don't want to 'w volvement with negotiations survive. People all over, like the paid off; they simply want their concerning the Patricia Hearst SLA are being pushed to the brink land back, Banks said. The In· kidnapping by the Symbionese to commit these acts, Banks feels. dians will not make anyone who is Liberation Army <SLA). Banks The two million dollars worth of there now pack up and leave th•· flew from St. Paul, Minnesota, food, Banks recalled, seemed like area, but no more outsiders will bt where the Wounded Knee Trial is crumbs being thrown out to all the permitted on the land, and no more in progress, to meet with Randolph poor who needed it so badlv. inheritance for whites will occur Hearst and to offer his and the according to Banks. He concludec AIM's assistence. saying the Black Hills are sacre<i
Banks began to talk towards the to the Sioux, Cheyenne anaend of his lecture on the 1868 Black 

Banks met with Hearst for Hills claim, which the Wounded Arapaho Indians. fourteen straight hours trying to Knee Trial is now concerned with. Banks would like to ask the agree on some ransom terms for The United States government in government to abolish the FBI and the SLA and Hearst. Hearst said 1877 illegally took parts of the turn the area over to a neutral he would put up two million dollars Sioux reservation, according to police force. Banks will now goand not one penny more, according Banks. The land was becoming back to the trial in St. Paul, and to Banks. When the SLA was valuable to the white men because afterward he and the AIM face unhappy with this amount and gold was being discovered. Banks state charges in South Dakota. 
Dennis Banks IIIJJJIJIIIIIIIJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHJJIIIIIIJJJJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIJJIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHJJJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJJIHJJIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJ(Photos by Ed Brower) 
Three point program stressed 
Banks talk concerns AIM program 
Reorganization Act of 1934 which has set up white­interfering with federal officers, aiding and abet­by Jim Donathen controlled governments on many reservations ting, and four conspiacy charges related to the first Staff Reporter 
should be repealed, and 3) the Bureau of Indian six. Affairs should be removed from the Department of "There has been high level interest in demands 
Spelling out the objectives of the American Indian the Interior and structured as an independent <of Oglala Sioux) and attempts to correct some of Movement (AIM) and its participation at Wounded 
agency which is controlled by the Indian people. the wrongs commited," Banks said. "But, no effort Knee, Executive Director of the AIM Dennis Banks In February of 1973 the Oglala Sioux beseiged has been made to correct the government and their 
gave an exclusive Observer interview on Friday. 
Wounded Knee, South Dakota in an effort to call policies."
"The object of AIM is to support and encourage attention to their demands, based on violations of Banks' trial which is entering its fourteenth tribes to exercise their right as sovereign people the Treaty of 1868. These included an independent week, has caused him many misgivings about the and to encourage enforcement of treaty laws," said investigation of the Bureau of Indian Affairs' FBI. During the seventh week of his trial, the judge Banks. 
alleged mishandling of Oglala rights and interests, realized FBI misconduct and ordered the im­AIM's attempts to improve Indian life include the the invalidation of the Pine Ridge Constitution, and pounding of FBI files concerning the case. 
establishment of legal right centers on reser­
the guarantee of new tribal elections which would "As yet, the government has failed to producevations, housing programs, and education be free of fraud and violence. evidence that disproves government misconduct, 
programs which emphasize Indian heritage and including wiretapping and withholding of eviden­strengthen the Indian's concept of his self identity, AIM and Banks were invited by the Oglala ce," emphasized Banks. 
according to Banks. Sioux to Wounded Knee on the first day of the seige. As a result of Banks' participation which he "Because of government misconduct," said 
AIM's Three Point Program states 1) a treaty described as being one of the chief negotiators for Banks, "the National police force portion of the FBI Commission (The Senate Committee on Foreign the Oglala Sioux, the federal government charged should be abolished. They've taken the attitude of Relations) should examine the 371 treaties the U.S. and arrested him under the Thirteen Major Crimes acting without authority and abused the rights of has made with the Indians, 2) the Indian Act. Charges are burglary, arson, larceny, assault, individuals in our country," he concluded. 

McLaughlin begins as SBP 
to help out rather than try for preparations for a La Fortune
by R. Thomas Thues 

commissioner positions,"he ex­coffee-t.ouse. The coffee-houseStaff Reporter plained. will be open three nights a week and will feature musicians, films,
Pat McLaughlin spoke of his 
The newly elected president had lectures, etc.
immediate plans and first im­his first opportunity to speak with pressions as newly elected student the Trustees last week. "We spoke "We've worked pretty hard thebody president in an Observer 
of the lack of communication last few weeks," said McLaughlin. 
interview last night. 
between Student Affairs office and "We must have spent 30 to 40 hours 
According to McLaughlin, in­the students," stated McLaughlin. a week on planning alone. School terviews for Student Government "The committee on Student Affairs work just had to come second." commissionerships have com­seemed very receptive to When asked what most im­
pleted and appointments will be suggestions like food coops and a pressed him about the job made today "as soon as they are La Fortune coffee-house." McLaughlin said,"An awful lot of finalized." Two of McLaughlin's immediate kids just want to help out if we need 
"We had a tremendous turn-out projects are . an off-campus them. Most of them we didn't even for interviews," said McLaughlin. newsletter and a Rathskellar know." "There was a real even coffee-house. The newsletter will "I'd also like to thank H-Man," distribution of freshmen, include food-price lists and general he commented. "Dennis <Etienne) .@Esophomores, jumiors and off-campus news. has given me a great deal of advice 
Notre Dame Student Body
minorities. Of the 90 or so ap­Twenty-five people, according to concerning policy, procedure, 
(photo by Zenon Bidzinski)
plicants most of them wanted McLaughlin, are working on the etc.," concluded McLaughlin. 

Pat Mclaughlin assumes his position as President today 
,~----------------------------­}. the observ.:e::.r_____M_on_d:.:..a.:...:y,~A....;p:;.;.r.;.;il...;1.;..,~19~74 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON UPI-State public utility com­missions were urged Sunday to permit power companies to pass on to customers the cost of reducing pollution from smoke stacks by En­vironmental Protection· Agency Adminstrator Russell E. Train. 
WASHINGTON UPI-A newsletter published by Space Publications said Sunday a new manned Soviet space mission may be undertaken in the next several days.
If there is a new mission it might possibly involve another Salyut space station program as well as a fresh round with the Soyuz flight system, the newsletter, called Soviet Aerospace, said. 
WASHINGTON UPI-Sen. Vance Hartke, D-lnd., chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Com­mittee, said Sunday his committee will continue hearings this month to "provide substantial in­creases in the G.I. bill." 
Hartke said there "is no way around the fact that 
providing adequate help to Vietnam era veterans is 
going to cost money, and more money than the 8 per 
cent the Adminstration seeks." 
an campus taday 
12 am, "april fools' day" 
10 am, seminar, "magic of magic," by prof. I· goldin, u. of penn., sponsored by the theology department, lib. lounge 
4:15pm, lecture, "the future of fictional criticism," by dr. robert scholes, brown u., sponsored by english dept., lib. aud. 
6:30, 10 pm, film, "the godfather," washington hall 
7:00pm, "meet your malor, history," refreshments served, rm. 104 o'shag 
7,9 pm, foreign film series, "smiles of a summer night," engineering aud. 
7:30 pm, lecture, "spencer's faerie land," by 
michael murrin, stapleton lounge, lemans hall, smc 
8 pm, perspective series, "metaohyslcs recon­sidered: the propositions of metaphysics," biology aud. 
8:30pm, talk, "respect for the unborn," presented by Keefe montgomery and therese bush, grace pit. 
Diggs talks at Black Arts fest 
by Tom Brennan Staff Reporter 
Congressman Charles Diggs Jr., Democrat from Michigan's 13th District spoke Sunday in con­junction with Notre Dame's Black Arts festival. While it was only his first visit to Notre Dame he praised the work of Father Hesburgh and Howard Glickstein, director of the Center for Civil Rights, for their contributions to the field of Civil Rights. 
Commenting on the value of a Black Student Organization Diggs felt that such organizations were valuable in helping the student develop a feeling of self-worth and confidence in himself. Often times a student can feel isolation and alienation at a large university and these student groups can often serve useful efforts, he said. 
"Watergate is not an isolated 
incident." Expanding on this idea 
Diggs expressed concern over the 
fact that Watergate was the result 
of decades of misuse of power. 
Diggs feels that political 
awareness and participation on the 
part of this country's citizens. 
The political upheaval of the 
1960's made people aware of in­
justices in the system. What we 
must have therefore is a long-term 
commitment to seek justice in the 
system, according to Diggs. He 
acknowledges that we have the 
techniques and means in this 
country to affect change if we will 
to do so. 

We must understand a fuller 
meaning of freedom, not just Black 
and White, but a freedom with 
larger implications, said the 
Congressman. Biggs feels that the 
closing of the gap between the rich 
and the poor, young and the old, 
religious and the secular is 
necessary if we are to reach any 
effective means of com-

The Thomas A. Dooley Foundation " IS W ork"ang•••• I 
in Cambodia, in Laos, in Nepal, in the hearts of millions. 
munication. 

Diggs feels that the emphasis on Black awareness is well placed. The importance of the Black vote is well established and today Black legislators directly represent over ten million voters. When Diggs first entered Congress there were only three Blacks in the 
legislature.  Today  there  are  
seventeen  representatives  in  
Congress  and  many  more  

representatives on the local levels. 
Diggs recognizes that there has been a misuse of concepts in our society. Law and Order means different things to different people, says Diggs. To the suburban housewife it means locks on the doors while the student has vision of Kent State and National Guard rifles on campus.. feels that by recognizing where the system has failed we will be able to get back on track. This can only be accomplished by active par­ticipation on the part of all con­cerned citizens. 
"By transforming our country into a more humane society we will answer many of the problems that face us now," pleaded Diggs. "We must find a new definition of Law and Order, try to find creative work for all people, fulfill and legal and medical needs of the un­derpriviledged, and seek to minimize confrontations between opposing factions," he added. 
In concluding, Diggs expressed the hope that we would cease to be a nation of silent onlookers and act in Union to help create me,aniingfu 
"""'""'''"' in our 

Congressman Charles Diggs, Jr., addressing the Black Arts Festival Sunday. (Photos by Ed Brower) 


THE OBSERVER 
NOW HIRING FOR THE POSITION OF BUSINESS MANAGER 
* APPLICANTS MUST BE ACCOUNTANCY MAJORS * 
send resume to editor, box q, notre dame, before april 3. 
··THI 

----~ 
St. Mary's elections will be held this Thursday 
by Jane Cannon 
Elections for the 

Student Board of Government at St Mary's will be held Thursday, April 4. Nominations were sub­mitted Saturday and campaigning will be permitted until midnight, April 3. 
The four positions to be filled are Academic Affairs Commissioner, Hall Life Commissioner, Legislative Commissioner, and Student Affairs Commissioner. 
The Academic Affairs Com­missioner, serving in an advisory capacity on the Board, is primarily responsible for academic functions and problems not provided for by the Office of Academic Affairs within the administration. 
The Hall Life Commissioner serves as a catalyst for com­munication between the individual halls and the Student Affairs Council. She is responsible for hall functions and is a member of the Executive Committee of the Board of Governance. 
The Legislative Commissioner is a new position and will serve on bodies dealing with legislation. 
She will chair the Student Assembly, sit on the Student Af­fairs Council and chair the meetings of the Board of Gover­nance. 
The Student Affairs Com­missioner is responsible for non­hall or non-academic functions. She chairs the Student. Affairs Commission, comprised of the Class Presidents, and sits on both the Student Assembly and Student Affairs Council. 
The Student Board of Gover­nance itself has replaced the conventional form of student government, the President, Vice­President and Executive Cabinet. This new form of government is currently in its first year at St. Mary's. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester ex.:ept vacations by the students of the Oniversily of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (514 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 



The Playhouse 
525 N. Hill 
0 


Live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat. ~ 
Tues. Nite · Keg Nile • Drafts 20¢ 
This Wed. & Thurs: "Jo Jo & the Outcasts" 
8th Annual........... . 
I.U.S.B. International Folklife Festival 

April 5·6·7 
University at So. Bend 1825 Northside Blvd. 
Folk Music Concerts -Adult 2.00, Stud. 1.00 Fri. -Sat. April 5-6 -8:15 P.M. 
Children's Concert -Adult 1.00, Child, Free Sat. 2:00 P.M. 
Craft Fair -Sat.-Sun. 12:00-5:00 Music & Dance Workshops Sat. & Sun. 1:00 P.M. 
Monday, April 1, 1974 the observer 
3 


Dining hall program 
Food ecology pushed 
by William Murphy 
Staff Reporter 

A food ecology drive has been instituted by the Notre Dame Food Service in an attempt to lessen food waste in the Dining Halls. Food Service Director, Edmund Price, spoke about the ecology project with The Observer last Friday. 
Price pointed out that food prices, just like so many other things, are rising and as a result Food Services are feeling a financial squeeze. 
"We could eliminate some things like other institutions," said Price. "We would rather try to cut down on waste because it doesn't hurt or deprive anyone of anything. Cutting back on waste doesn't cost anything either so we decided to concentrate on that area," he continued. 
The program now being used, according to Price, is similar to one that was attempted at Michigan State. The program is being sponsored by Coca-Cola who provided the printed materials and buttons which students have seen in the dining halls for the past several weeks. Coke prints the materials and has helped work out the program to draw student at­tention to the problem of food waste," said Price. 
According to Price the program is successful so far. "The students are doing a fantastic job," said Price." During the times when I have observed the conveyor belt in the South Dining Hall, there is next to no waste going back into the kitchen." 
Price noted that the Student Food Advisory Committee has been doing a great job in assisting his office with the project. "They are representing our views to the students while bringing valuable student suggestions back to our meetings," explained Price. 
An unexpected side effect of the program, according to Price, is that dining hall employees have also become very conscious of waste. "They have developed an interest," said Price," which is a big reason for the success of the 
Meet your Major schedule 
DEPARTMENT  
Anthropology  April2  8:00PM Senior Bar  
Area Studies Program Held in conjunction with the Gov't department  
Art  April3  9:00PM  105 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
Education  April2  9:00PM  104 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
English  April3  7:00PM  105 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
General Program  .. See Department Chairman, 315 O'Shaughnessy  

Government & lnternation Relations April 2 7:00p.m. 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
History April1 7:00PM 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Modern & Classical Languages April4 8:00PM 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Music  April2  8:00PM  
Philosophy  April4  6:30PM  
Psychology  April4 7:00PM  
Sociology  April1  8:00PM  
Theology  April1  9:00PM  

104 O'Shaughnessy Hall Mem. Library Lounge 217 Psychology Bldg. 509 Washington Halll 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Urban Studies Held in conjunction with the Gov't Department Black Studies April3 8:00PM 345 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
program." 
Price envisions that the program will last a month or so longer, and if the same results continue, it could have an effect on keeping student food costs down for the coming fall semester. 
"I would like to thank the students for their cooperation from the bottom of my heart," said Price. "It's extremely gratifying the way the student body has responded to our request for help in this situation." 

Last Chance 
-Armory Party-Saturday, April 6 8:30-J:00 Tickets: $2.50 at dining hall $3.00 at door (dinner) 
Buses leave ND circle every 
1 

Y2 hour 8:30 -10:00 pm 

MUSIC: MARK BLOOM BAND 

Our Officer Selection Offic~rs are looking for a few good college men­maybe 3 out .of 100-who w1ll make good Marine officers. If you're one of t~em, :we:II. g1ve you a chance to prove it during summer training at Quan­
tico, Vrrgmra . .our progra~ is Platoon Leaders Class, PLC. With ground,'air and law optr?ns. You mrght even qualify for up to $2,700 to help you through college. But rf money is all you're looking for, don't waste your time. The ch~llenge is leadership. If you want it, work for it. If you've got it, show us. Its one hell of a challenge. But we're looking for one hell of a man. 


·-------------~~~ 
I !I!!BarineS IFPle~sesendmeinform~~o~·:: I 
I  x . . Los Angeles, Callforn1a 90038  Manne Corps Platoon Leaders Class. (Please Print) ·  I  
I Name_____________Age____I Address City State ZipI School Clas_s_o_f_,____  I 1I  
I  Phone  .  Social Security#  I  

If you are a sen1or, check here for information on Officer Candidates Class o. 





·-------------· 

14

------4;_--~~~~t~·~!~~~:~b~s~e~r~v~e~r-----~~=n=~~Y~·~A~p~r~"-~·-~-~=-------------~--------~·-~~-~~~---l 
Dpl•..;Dft 
• M 
Fungus •1n Louisano 


---------------•nn arbaur 
The nations of our time cannot prevent the con­

scrap; it was said there were 900 or more cameloads of 
ditions of men from becoming equal; but it 
metal from it.

depends upcn themselves whether .the principle of equality is to lead them to servitude or freedom, to knowledge or barbarism, to prosperity or wret­7. The Pharos (or Lighthouse) of Alexandria-­
Located in Egypt.
chedness. de Tocqueville Prototype of all lgihthouses bulit on the coasts of the Roman Empire. About 200 feet in height. On the top a fire was kept burning to guide ships. In the Middle Ages the Arabs replaced the beacon with a small mosque. In 1477 the sultan Qait Bey built a fort from its ruins. 

The Encyclopedia Britannica, under "Seven Won­ders of the World", says changing attitudes of man andHerb Juliano says that not since the ancient Severi society are reflected as the list keeps changing. WhileWonders of the World has man allowed his imagination engineering skill and aesthetic values are still im­to soar to conceive and construct another such won­portant in the selections, the wonders of natures haveder... "until the Louisiana Superdome". In last attracted attention, greater utility oif man-madeFriday's issue of the Observer Herb Juliano writes: structures hasd achieved importance, and remarkable "So wondrous were they, their fame spread thought often less visibible wonders of science andthroughout the world of their day, and thought no trace invention have gained prominence. 
remains of most of them today, their memory still Herb Juliano says that the Superdome is astands as a monument to man's intelligence and monument of man's daring imagination, inhenuity,ability." 

intelligence:
Just what were the "Seven Wonders of the World"? Encyclopedia Britannica suggests the first of endless lists of the sevenwonderswas set down in a travelguide 

The Superdome is more than a building or abook by Antipater of Sidon, (Alexandria Press, Mid-s.tadium or a hall. It is the depository of2nd Century B.C.> Antipat~r's list included the 
Louisiana's belief in itself and a budding,
following seven: 

exhilarating, moving certainty that tomorrow can be now. 
1) The Pyramid of Khufu-Cheopes, Egypt. This In "Superdome" Juliano refers to The New YorkGreat Pyramid was the end product of a long period of 

Times:
exancting architectural science and embalming science decicated to the purpose of preserving the king's body for life after death. 

According to The New York Times, the Louisiana
Preparation of site: 10 years. Completion of one 

Superdome, under construction inNew Orleans,
man's tomb: 20 years and 100,000 laborers. Still 

will make all other staidums in existence as ob­
withstands ruins of time. 

solete as Rome's Colesseum. It is rising into the Skyline like a giant golden mushroom. It is being
2. The Hanging Gardens of Babylon--Constructed by 

by the people of Louisiana and administered by the
Nebuchadnezzar II, 6th Century B.C. These were not 

Louisana Stadium and Exposition District.
"hanging" but "up in the air"-that is, they were roqf garden's laid out on a series of terraces irrigated by "As befits a great building," Juliano says, "thepumps from the Euphrates. Tradition says they were Superdome is intricate and involved in its conception, built by Nebuch to console his Median wife who missed its construction, and to some extent its operation."

the mountains of her homeland . 

In March, 1973, Fortune magazine ran an articleWalls and Gardens have crumbled to ruins. 
entitled "Stadiums: Promoters vs. Taxpayers." It's author, Charles G. Burck, noted that as monuments
3. Statue of Zeus at Olympia--By Phidias, 430 B.B. A · stadiums are hardly the aesthetic equals of medieval40 ft. seated figure of marble embellished with ivory cathedrals or the railroad stations of th 19th century-­and gold. 

nobody has yet built the Chartes or even the GrandProbably leveled by an earthquake in the 6th cen­Central Terminal of stadiums.
tury. 

Plans are currently afoot for two new mammoth stadiums in the New York Metropolitan are, while the 
4. Temple of Diana (or Artenis)at Ephesus-Famous venerable Yankee Stadium is scheduled for a $23for the works of art which adorned it. Copies which million overhaul.

survive show mummylike goddess festooned with breasts or eggs and ornamented with bees andanimals, and wearing a high pillard headdress. Destroyed by If men are to remain civilized, or to become so, thethe Goths in A.D.262. 

art ofassociating together must grow and improve in the same ratio in which the dquality ·of con­
5. Mausoleum of Halicarnassus-Monumental tomb ditions if Increased. de Tocqueville

of dynast Mausolus, begun in 353 B.B. by his sister and widow, Artemisus. Probably destroyed by eathquake betweeen the 11th and the 15th century A.D., and the stones re-used. In 1971, the Houston Astrodome lost $569,000. Says Ja~ Taylor, economic-development manager of the 
6. Colussus of Rhodes--The Rhodians com-Houston Chamber of Commerce, ""I know of almost memorated the end of Demetrius Poliocetes' long siegs no case in which the Astrodome was a factor in of Rhodes by erecting a bronze statue by the harbour. business moving to Houston." (Fortune. March, 1973).It tok twelve years to buld but in 225 B.B. it broke off at Juliano explains how it began:the knees in an earthquake. The fallen Colossus was 
left in place until A.D. 653 when the Arabs raided It all began eight years ago.Rh@es and had it broken up and the bronze sold for 

THE NOMINE£5 f'O!< BEST ACTOR ARE: ONE FIJNK't NEW CHARACTER ACTOR, ON£ 
so WHO LEGITIMATE SI/Pci<STAR, ARG THE ONE OLP HAT IUHO'S PA/P 
THe ffNVfft.OPt; NOMINE~ HIS W.ES 8VTN£V£R MJN 
PUfASE... TH!i GUN? ANY7HI/V6_ ONE !'RflTY ~ 
W!NN&RIS .. 
ANP ONe NON-TAUNT 
.r
f 
WITH to75 OF 
5Tl/P((} ~~-· 
/ 
overwhelmingly approved the constitutional amendment creating the Louisiana Stadium and Exposition District. And, oln theat day, the Super-dome was born. Beseiged for five years in the courtroom, the District and its eleven-man Board of Commissioners surfived the seemingly endless legal skirmishes. 
In 1966, following Louisiana State University's victory in the Cotton Bowl, Gov. John J. McKeithen announced that "Louisiana will build the best stadium in history." (Fortune, March, 1973)' 
Lousiana voters approved the constitutional amendment after being told 1) the stadium would cost $35 million, 2) It would be self-supporting, 3) in the wording of newspaper advertsiements put out by its promoters "neither the state nor the city backs the constructionb bonds." (Fortune, March, 1973). 
No one clearly explained how the "best" stadium in histroy could be built for only $35 million, says Fortune magazine. 
And in print so fine and language so obscure few voters either noticed or grasped, the Louisiana Stadium and Exposition District (L.S.E.D.) was given the authority to issue bonds backed by state money for 
whateveramount it wanted. 
Originally, the cost of construction was extima ted at $35 million. By 1974, the latest cost extimates had reached the $163 million figure. 
Herb Juliano concluds his article "Superdome: a monument ot man's imagination" with some in­teresting remarks among them is the gollowing: 
Anything goes in the Louisiana Superdome! From great sports events to major cultural attractions, religious services, Broadway productions and political conventions, the potential is as endless as man's imagination and his needs. The immensity of te Louisiana Superdome was founded on the principle and the belief that we inhavit an age when even tomorrow is in danger of obsolescence. The Louisiana Superdome is beyond tomorrow. 
When Seattle's King County Multipurpose stadium was being built, brochures advertixed it as a place to see and hear "The worlds' most famous en­tertainers ... President of the United States and the great religious leaders of ourtimes... " (Fortune March, 1973). 
Not only will the numbet of those who can take an interest in the productions of mind be greater, but the taste for intellectual enjoyment will descend, step by step... de Tocqueville 
Rather than add to the cyncism endemic to the Lousiana voter, I do not wish to address myself to those businessmen and politicans who helped the "Superdome" "survive." Nor do I wish to address myself to those voters hwo "overwhelmingly" ap­proved it. Rather, I must ask why The Observer was interested in printing a feature article as shallow as "Superdome: a monument oman's imagination". Is TThe Observer interested in quantity of information of quality? Should the media in America concern itself with such questions as the quality of life? Should Notre Dame be a part of its dedication? Can we learn from history? 
Has Herb Juliano ev~r lived ion New Orleans, Louisiana? Has he ever stood on the levee overlooking in the French Quarter, or the Garden District and seen the Superdome "rising into the Skyline like a giant golden mushroom."Thereis nothing anywhere like it. 
-Ann Arbour 

Bllllllllll1!1!11!!"''1wiiii¥1111!!MUIIIIIIIIIIIIIZIII!I!IIIIIIIIIIb!llllllllll 
Ann Arbour is a senior in American Studies at Notre Dame. She is the great-great-great grandaughter of Thomas Edmund Grace, Class of 1855. Both Artn and her great-great-great grand· father were raised in ~ouisiana. The quotes were taken from Democracy in America by Alexis de Tocqueville. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Gary Allletta ·Assistant Night Editor: Mike Strlckruth 
Layout: Marlene Zloza, Robert Baker, Fred 
Graver, Camarry Copy Editor: Rick Thues Day Editors: Jim Donathen, Mary Janca Compugraphic: Phil Orscheln Typists: Claire Kelly, Camille Arrleh, Jane Coyle, 
Bill Menk Pidures: Albert D'Antonio 'Visiting Dignitaries: Bill tk, AI Rutherford, 
Tom Drape, Terry Keeney zu Night Controller: Joe Abell 

~----~~----------------------------------.........1 


17he Cruellest Mumford 

s note: "Tristan da Cunha" is a nom de of Marvin F. Pangloss, Ph.d., the second young faculty member in the College of Arts Letters. After ten years in which, as he says, only illumination came from the cynical light stars," he was educated at the Dalcroze of Eurythmics (where he specialized in nine­time) and Tunstead College, Cambridge. At lnirtet•een he published the first Marxist defense of doctrine of consubstantiation. His many ar­include: Planck's Constant: A Rip-Off?; On Ashes of the Various Tobaccos (with Professor riarty, late of Wigan Pier University); and The and Texture of the Definite Article in ur<uu~<n Greene's "Pandosto, or the Triumph of . " Professor Pangloss' setting of the speeches Herbert Hoover has been recorded by Dietrich Fisher-Dieskau on ninety-two Deutsche Gram­mophon• LP-s. The originator of the ubiquitous phrase "like, y'know" at Notre Dame, and the to protest the classificationof freshman students into the triple categories of Goths, and Huns. he has also acted in several pictures under the name of James Dean, and the role of Colonel Sanders in the Broad­
musical version of Bunyan's Pilgrim's 
. Married, and the father of twelve pping 6'9", 290-pound daughters, Pangloss--like rpo. Marx in The Coconuts--enjoys eating 

betweenthe multiplicity of the ineffable singular, and the formal Identity of the transcendental ego, he has pinned himself wriggling on the points of an ontological cleft-stick-and If he has prevailed, he has prevailed like the false pig In Aesop. 
As Lucy A. Shlrakawa has pointed out In her excellent book on Russian icons ., we live In a century of solid technical accomplishment. In my own field of academic endeavor, the fully com­puterized preparation of poetic concordances; the Hinman Collating Machine, which has so decisely superseded the earlier (and dangerous} steam­powered model; the prevalence of microfilms; the unprecendented speed with which applications for foundation grants can now be processed, the deserving rewarded, the undeserving politely but very firmly rejected-all attest to the quiet ef­ficiency of everyday advances in space age literary technology. But in the larger context of the global community we are achieving results which make even these accomplishments seem small-and smaller still, the Swifts, Orwells, and Mumfords of the world. 
An article in a widely-read news magazine established recently that psychologists have already explained, after a matter of a few weeks' deliberation, the heretofore puzzling undergraduate phenomenon of streaking. It is now viewed as being on the one hand an affirmation of identity, the ex­pression of a desire for personal recognition, and on the other a protest against the too-easy definition of man as a Yahoo. As William T. Malmstrom has pointed out In his comprehensive yet apalnstaklngly argued study Virginia Woolf, Mantovani, Reggie Jackson: A Psychoanalytic Study of Three Lives 
( Fullcourt Press, 1973), the urge toward self­assertion is as commonly encountered In society at large as It is within the Ivied walls of academia. Indeed, the recent strike of Independent truck 
by Tristan da Cunha 
drivers, the upshot of the latest NCAA basketball tournament, and the encouraging revival of the Christian faith all bear witness to this fact. Far from giving evidence that we are entering upon a new Dark Age, these indications plainly suggest that man remains the master of his destiny, the captain of his own animating spirit and conscience. Everywhere. indeed, there are clear signs that the expression ''progress" will for not much longer be treated with gratuitous levity by the diehards of the academic Right. 
Now that spring is coming, and with it the utter rout of damp weather, anxiety, and disorder, students and faculty at Notre Dame would do well to emulate a small but resolute group of young sociologists at an Eastern campus, who-working entirely in the time normally devoted to their office 
. hours-refurbished five obsolete AirNationaiGuard C-97 aircraft for a remarkable mission to Madrid, Spain. Flying at an altitude of four hundred feet, and dodgin a withering hail of small-arms fire sent up by bewildered sentries, they dropped scores of thousands of copies of the New York Review of Books almost literally on the doorstep of Spanish dictator Francisco Franco. In the first nine days after the drop, according to veteran observers, the incidence of fascist or crypto-fascist material in the Madrid mass-communications media declined by five to seven per cent, while the production of non­
ferrous metals used in tractor  manufacture  rose  
eleven per cent.  A  new  Dark  Age,  Professor  
Mumford?  

As Governor Huey Long pointed out during a Dick Cavett interview many years ago, "Every man's a king." This utterance, which appeared so cryptic at the time, may well prove prophetic to an extent that the freewheeling old reprobate never dreamed possible In his wildest gubernatorial fantasies. 


Feast of Fools 

Ray Ramirez was discovered while trying to feed "Milk Duds" to the laboratory rats in their cages in the Galvin Life Science Center. Special doctors have aided him in reforming his ways, and he will soon be back to his normal state. His family wishes to thank all of you who sent cards and flowers during the convalescence. 
Practical jokes are an everyday part of our existence, expeclally on a large university campus, where frustrations are relieved and some amount of humor achieved through the administration of such pranks. What then Is a practical joke? It Is a mischievous trick dependent on a con­trived situation which the butt of the joke must believe( some other situations, such as putting honey in someone's bed, are of­tentimes called "practical jokes", but rather this is an act of a malicious sort, dependent upon its "slapstick" quality for humor). Jokes are either class one: a joke backed by concrete evidence such as a letter, newspaper, magazine or some other item that the blctim ;.dn inspect and accept as real; class two: a joke backed by the corroboration of a second party, or; class three: a joke backed by your own lie with no other hint of proof. Of the three, the class one joke is the most believable and as such the most effective and ~umorous. The class three joke is the easiest to set up as all you need do is concoct a prevarication on your own, while the class two joke demands some cooperation by a friend who joins you in a lie and by adding his support lends It some integrity. 
Some examples might be needed to 
demonstrate what I say: 
A class one joke might take the form of a 
tetter sent to a person telling him of an 
upcoming test, his luck at being chosen to 
take it and might even mention a stipend of 
some sort. With such concrete evidence In 

Creature of Fun 
hand the victim of the joke will set out to a place and a time designated by the creator of the joke. The class one has the greatest power of manipulation, but it does have Its drawbacks;--the planning that has to go Into it, the work needed to make it appear 
authenti>c and the time-lag from conception to fulfillment. 
For a class lwo !oke you might come upon a friend who just awoke some Sunday morning, tell him that UCLA had been beaten In basketball by Washington State the previous night and when he doubts you, turn to his roommate and ask, "Is this not so?" and receive his agreement, to which the victim might say, "I'll be darned!". Obviously, this is a flimsy set-up as any exterior check on this story will prove It false. It also has the weakness of depending on the correlation of answers between the presenters of fti~ fabrication and any variance in the stories will be cause for disbelief on the victims part. The ad­vantage here lies in the speed of con­struction and presentation. 
The class three joke Is no more than a lie 
in the first-person, such as,"Hey, Joe. 
Somebodystole your blke!"Thls type of set­
up rarely works, and even when it does It 
cannot be fully be enjoyed due to Its meager 
construction and lack of planning, which 
few can take pride ln. 
There must some reward In the offing for 
a practical joker, but pleasure cannot even 
be spoken of without first mentlolng Its 
enemy and ally... danger, of course. Danger 
exists even In practical jokes and is In­
versely proportional to the care with which 
the joke has been set •up 1, I.e. a class three joke is more ldangerous than a class onejoke. Why is this so? 

One always runs the risk of walking away from a practical joke with a bloodynose, brought on by an Irate victim. You will alleviate this risk by carefully constructing and setting up ·your jokes over a period of time and by using a certain amount of 
ingenuity and wit. No matter how dense your victim may be, he surely will ap­preciate the esthetics of ;anything well-built, including a joke. He also does not feel quite so bad falling for a well-made set-up, and will rationalize, " ... anybody would've fallen for that." The true danger comes, however, when you set up a joke at a moment's notice or with little thought. Forcing such lame pranks on a person seems little more than malicious and becomes irksome to the "jokee", who may retaliate in a strictly physical manner or may just become angry, bitter and distrustful. 
Well, if the road is fraught with such dangers, why play a joke at all? Simply because there's pleasure to be had from practical jokes and joking. Primarily, you will Inevitably find humor in someone's believing in a contrived sltuation("Where are you going, Steve?"; "Oh, I have this test in aha!f-hour that will make me five bucks richer!"), and besides, it gives you a chance to observe human behaviour In an artificial environment which can be altered and controlled. Secondly, there is an egotistic pleasure in seeing one of your creations work. Add to this the praise of others upon your success and you have quite a self­satisfied glow about you. Lastly, thought not always thought of, is a feeling of sadistic 
by Ray Ramirez 
pleasure (•especially in a class one joke), as you can observe the victim's actions, change the set-up as your fancy directs you and watch him perform at your whim. When you eventually humble this person, satisfaction fills you as he is forced to admit by his actions that he has been had by the better man. 
So the a practical jokels much more than 
realized Firstof all, it Is funny If per­formed correctly. There is no denying that much of the humor of a semester is tied to practical jokes and joking amongst us and our friends. A good prank also relieves frustration as It gives us a chance to find a somewhat "wicked,' outlet outlet for creativity that is often forced under the surface in work demanded by the univer­sity. 
There also exists the risk of producing ill­feelings and distrust, not only in the victim but in any who may witness the joke, misconstrue Its intent and thus picture its creator as someone of a slightly depraved nature. Always existant too is the chance of personal injury form a victim who did not think the joke was as funny as you did. 
In summation, the best and safest joke would be a class one joke, well-planned and constructed, presented in a group at­mosphere over a long period of time. The group will assure dispersal of anger and 
thus minimize any outburst that could follow, while the long time period allows form manipulation and bulld:up. And of course, the joke must be class one all the way, so even the victim can appreciate it as it happens and you can take pride in your creature of fun. 


the observer Monday, April 1, 1974 .· 


rare earth: 
explosively rare 
a review by joseph abel/ 

Rare Earth is one of those few bands around that should really cut all its albums live. But maybe then the pleasure of a Rare ~arth concert would be diminished. 
To put it simply, Earth is a band that's professional: no wild histrionics, no fancy light shows, no intricate studio tricks; the band just doesn't need them. Their music is tight and explosive in concert, qualities that are surprisingly lacking in many of their more recent studio cuts. 
The band certainly exploded last night at the ACC, though ACC management were probably preparing a lynch mob for ' drummer and lead vocalist Peter ' Hoorelbeke, who crooned into the mike, "I wish you'd come a little closer-1 want to see your faces.'' Never ones for subtlety, the audience, behaving rather orderly up until then, mobbed the stage, pressing closer and closer for the rest of the set. 
But for the most part, the music was tight and controlled throughout. Leading off with "Hey, Big Brother," the band established its professionalism from the start. Com­bining a good solid rhythm with polished solos, the band made an immediate hit with the audience, whose clapping and cheering occasionally rivalled the volume of the band. Particularly good during this song 
Rory Gallagher

was keyboardman Mark Olson, who also showed proficiency on sax and percussion later. 
Want To) Celebrate" and "Get Ready," the 

"Born to Wander" led off with a tasty encore. Hoorelbeke couldn't even do his flute solo by Gil Bridges; who later showed 
usual audience-walking bit duringhis versatility by doubHrig on sax and organ. 

"Celebrate": there was no place to go. So . 

Lead guitarist Ray Monette also shone on 
he settled for driving assorted girls into "Wander," getting in some excellent licks. hysterics by flinging drumsticks and towels , in their midst. At the end, screams for more 
A pair of tunes from Earth's latest album, continued long after the lights came up.Ma, followed, demonstrating that the group Rory Gallagher proved to be an excellent can overcome the efforts of new producer warm-up for Rare Earth, though his set was Norman Whitfield, who likes to showcase unusually long. Playing for over an hour,
the rhythm section and fade everything else Gallagher demonstrated his range of ac­into the background. Guitar, organ, and sax complishment as a guitarist, as he went were right out in front where they should be through hard rock, blues, rock and roll (his at no sacrifice to rhythm on "Big John is My specialty), and even a touch of jazz. His Name" and "Ma," providing Rare Earth's three-man group (electric piano, drums, strongest feature: jamming. bass) was one of the tighter bands,
The jams were long and controlled. This especially during some of the extended isn't to say they were restricted; they were jams. Gallagher's only problem was some of the more exciting the ACC has seen volume: he was mostly on that threshold this year. Each member of the band took his between deafening and acceptable. The mix solo, yet each added to a total effect that was also inconsistant: the electric pianomakes Rare Earth so invigorating. was almost inaudible except during piano
It was during "I'm Losing You" that solos, when it was thundering. But on the 

Hooreelbeke started the rush and kept the whole, the songs were well done, especially 
mob against the stage through "(I Just the final rocker ' Blues." 
Mark Olson of Rare Earth.(Photos by Joseph Abell) 

Little Bir:J Screen } 
r 


academy awards highlight week 
art ferranti 
All but one film on this week's movie original London cast, the film presents the schedule is made-for-television, even, if you other side of the coin, presnted last year want to stretch a point, the Oscar show with Richard Chamberlain and Faye tomorrow. The 46th Annual Academy Dunaway as the Duke and his bride (they Awards from the Dorthy Chandler Pavilioin are not in this production; in fact, the 
L. A. will commence at nine on NBC (16) character of Mrs. Simpson does not even and will probably last for over three hours. appear). Another success of the story is Bob Hope was slated to award an honorary that it shows to an American public that the Oscar to Groucho Marx but the ski-nosed Royal family means a great deal more to comedian is not listed with the guest the British people than just a figurehead of presenters. The reason is that he is under government. The Royal Family is the contract to Ford and Chevy has three British family to Englanders, a phenomena minutes of advertising on the program. If unknown in the U.S. he does appear, Hope will be as far away 
Portrait of Pope

from the ads as possible. However at 8:00 on 16 tomorrow, Hope will host an hour long Also on the not-to-be-missed circuit is the "Cavalcade of Champions Awards" special repeat of Raymond Burr's performance as 
which will highlight the achievemnets of Cardinal Angelo Roncalli, who in World War professional and amateur athletes. Film Two peacefully fought the Nazi's in Turkey
clips and guest star presenters are featured and manged to get the Third Reich to on both programs. release a boatload of 647 Jewish children. Of course, tonight continues the "ABC Don Galloway co-stars as Burr's right-hand 
Salute to Movies" as reported last week. monsignor with Henry Darrow as the This time the epics and the musicals are Spanish consul, Eric Braeden as the bad guy 
featrued among others. It airs at eight on Nazi, and John Colicos as the Turkish un­
28. Opposite this NBC presents another dersecretary. The special is entitled 
double feature film presentation "Portrait a Man Whose Name was John" spotlighting two pilots. The Girl on the and if you do not realize it by now, Angelo
Late, Late Show, concerns police efforts in Roncalli became the beloved Pope John 
San Francisco and Los Angeles to track XXIII. It will be televised on Friday at nine 
down the killer of a starlet. Don Murray, on ABC. The acting is touching with the Joe Santos, John Ireland, Ralph Meeker, location shooting excellently shot. The best Walter Pidgeon, Van Johnson, Cameron scenes are between Burr and a non-Italian Mitchell, and Yvonne DeCarlo head the cast speaking little boy, who as an adult relates 
of the film which begins at seven, followed this true story.ninety minutes later by Hooky Tonk with Friday's CBS pilot is a "Waltons " spin-offRichard Crenna and Geoffrey Lewis. of another loving family faced with an 
Crenna plays a role created by Clark Gable outside threat -the oldest son is chargedin the 1941 version of the film as a gambler with a crime he did not commit. Set in a with his partner out to hoodwink Margot crowded city, it is entitled The Family
Kidder, Stella Stevens, Will Geer, and John Dovack. The troubles begin at eight.Dehner. Watch the salute instead. Sudnay's ABC movie at seven-thirty is the ABC has decided to give up Tuesday's The Story of Jacob and Joseph, also made­rating race by throwing in a rerun horror for-TV with Keith Michell (Henry in "The 
film that really was not. The Moon of the Six Wives of Henry VIII"), Tony LoBianco,
Wolf at seven-thirty stars David Janssen as Colleen Dewhurst, and Herschel Bernardi. 
a sheriff in the South after a werewolf, The specials of the week Jean heavily on 
played by Bradford Dillman. The film tried comedy. At seven towmorrow on NBC new 
to maintain horror with its fog enshrouded comedy talent is showcased in "Ham­
setting and not allowing the viewer to see burgers'', a Flip Wilson cartoon is presented 
the wolfman until the conclusion, but the Wednesday at seven on NBC,and Alan Kingplot was too routine making the climax features Jack Klugman and Cass Elliot in 
prediictable and the characters sterotyped. his special Friday at eight on ABC. NBC 
examines cancer research, Russian ballet 

Panther sequel stars Valery Panov and his wife who are 
barred from touring Isreal, and th.e stardomA Shot in the Dark is the theater released of actor Charles Bronson. And if you cansequel to The Pink Panther, with further pull in channels 9 or 21 from Chicago theadventures of Inspector Clousseau, the Pizza Hut Basketball game which featuresbumbling French detective. Here he has to 

solve two murders and so Digger Phelps as the coach of the East, tune
does with in tonight at ten thirty.
hilarious results. Peter Sellers recreates his role as the hapless detective under the direction of Blake Edwards who did the From Godfather to Gatsby 
Panther and "Peter Gunn." Elke Sommer On Campus tonight and tomorrow theco-stars for her beauty if nothing else (but Glee Club will show the Academy Awardthat's plenty as is) and aids Sellers in some winner The Godfather in Washington Hall atclever slapstick-type sight gags. It 
6:30 and ten both nights. It is the originalpremieres ten years after its original 35mm wide-screen film starring Marlonrelease on TV Saturday at eight on NBC. 

Brando, Al Pacino, James Caan, and Robert Back to the pilots. Wednesday's ABC Duvall among others. Washington Hallmovie at seven-thirty is The Gun and the holds over 800 so if you wish to go and see aPulpit which stars ex-evangelist Marjoe large line, do not be discouraged. A $1.00

Gortner as a gunfighter out to clean up a "protection fee" is charged.
town in the guise of a preacher. Slim Pickens co-stars in this more comic than Notice: On AprilS, this Friday The Sting serious story. Lee J. Cobb will give a series with Paul Newman and Robert Redford will another go if his pilot sells based on Thur­begin to run at the Scottsdale Theater. It is sday's showing of Dr. Max at eight on CBS. a susuperb motion picture produced by ND He's a family doctor based in Baltimore for graduate Tony Bill who also did Steelyard this one. Blues. 
Notice: On April 12, The Great GatsbyIdylls of the rich will commence a theatre run at the Town 

Again, we will shift our attention from the and Country. With Robert Redford and Mia mundane to the superb as Greer Garson Farrow, the film runs two hours and twenty stars as Queen Mary in Crown minutes. I have not seen it (I intend to) but Matrimonial, a dramatic Hall of Fame it has been getting bad reviews. But for the 
presentation on the royal family's troubles fans of Redford (mostly female) who cares? with the romance and subsequent marraige of HerMajesty's son,Edward VIII, the Duke Windsor, and twice divorced American Trivia Question: In The High and the spinster Wallis Simpson. It shows how Mighty, who played the chicken pilot? public outcry influenced the decision of the 
. oond-oa aqlRoyal Family and how the .Queen 

SUM au..\e.M. uqOf) lf;)'BlS paq01J :J;M\SUV

;vithstood it way back in 1936. With the 
. t,,,t" 
: t ~ r t t ·~ ·, ·,. 1r • '1 ', ', f, ', '. ' 
• • .. .. .. ~ .. ' ' • t • • • • • • .. . 
--------~---~--~---~---~-~---------~--------------~----------------­
Monday, April 1, 1974 the observer 
Campus briefs ••• 
m Hall scored 802 points out of a
Red Cross drive possible 1000 to win the title and just edge out Alumni Hall's Ed Byrnes, who scored 800, by two
still in need of points. 
Rory Moran, co-coordinator ofblood donors the event with Myers, believes, 
"O'Connor is almost certain he will by Marlene Zloza defend his title three weeks from Managing Editor now." 
Donors and workers are still Registration is limited to the needed for this week's Red Cross first 120 people to call either Myers Blood Drive, scheduled for Wed-at 8324 <Room 119, Pangborn) or nesday, Thursday and Friday in Moran at 1544 (Room 416, the ACC. This semester's goals Cavanaugh) . There will be an and plans are somewhat different entry fee of $2.00 per person. from past drives and include a Registration will close at mid-variety of services. night, April 10. 
On Wednesday, a group from the "The cooperation we've been Chicago area will be collecting the getting in setting up the event has blood to help replenish supplies been fantastic," adds Myers, used by two hemophiliac chl'ldren "We'd especially like to thank 
C I I St t th Ace C h
from Chicago. , All Wednesday o one evens a e ' oac 
donors will receive Red Cross McNeil at the hockey rink, and blood benefits for six months. Coach Fallon at the Rock for all 
The Fort Wayne Red Cross their help, and also golf coach Noel chapter will be conducting Sullivan who is, by the way, con­Thursday's session, which will be sidering entering." similar to past drives. Red Cross blood benefits to each donor will Stadium storage
extend for one year. On Friday, donors will be driven for bl.keS endS 
downtown to the hospital blood bank, where donations will be taken for the Notre Dame Fund this Friday
which provides blood to any member of the Notre Dame Students who stored their bikes community who needs it. Donors in the stadium for winter must on Wednesday and Thursday also claim them by Friday of this week. have the option of contributing to Senior Chris Singleton, who is the Notre Dame Fund. supervising the bike reclaim, has 
Hours on all three days are announced that the hours to pick from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. up bikes are from t-4 p.m., Volunteers are still needed to work beginning tomorrow afternoon. on Wednesday morning from 10:00 Bikes can be reclaimed at to 1:00. Donors are still needed for Gate 7 of the stadium. Gate 7 is all three days and are asked to sign located on the south end of the up_ for a specific time. Ap-stadium directly across from Gate pomtments can be made by calling 10 of the ACC. John at 3898 or Bill at 8622. Singleton emphasized that all 
bikes must be removed from theRegistration onenst~~iur"? by Friday. . 
r We d greatly apprec1ate z A everybody picking them up byJ.Or n Tostal Friday," said Singleton. "It will just be an impossible situation if people don't pick them up," he


decathlon event added. 
Also, St. Mary's students whoby Bob Quakenbush stored their bicycles over theStaff Reporter winter in Regina Hall basement 
Registration for the An 'i'ostal may pick them up on Tuesday or Decathlon, an event designed to Thursday this week between 1 and determine the best all-around 5 p.m. at the Regina basement. athlete on the Notre Dame cam­· pus, opens today. The decathlon 
itself, featuring ten events to WSNDannounces the off-campus office at a time to 
Program Director is sophomore Terry O'R~illy from Pittsburgh, Pa .. Denms Stellato, a sociology ~aJor from Lyndhurst, NJ, will direct the news department, while sophomore Mark Arminio has been named Sports Director. Chief Engineer Jim Nero, an Electrical Engineering major from Louisville, Ohio, will head the Technical Engineering depart­ment. Director of Production Engineering is sophomore Tom Canavan. 
Irish Wake tix sell out fast, 
many 
by Drew Wallach 
Staff Reporter 
Discount sales of Irish Wake tickets on last Friday' March 29, upset both students and planners. 
The 200 pairs of discounted tickets, $2 per couple for students presenting Beach Boys Concert 
tickets, went on sale at 1 p.m. and sold out in less than an hour. One 
student who did not manage to get a discounted ticket commented that he felt it was "unfair" and added that he had bought Beach Boys tickets supposing that he would be able to purchase discounted Irish Wake tickets. 
Wally Gasior, An Tostal chairman, explained that an ad in the Observer had incorrectly stated that a discount would be offered to anyone with a pair of Beach Boys tickets and that students had apparently dismissed other news reports which ex­plained that only 200 tickets would be offered. "This really upset some students," he added. 
"I am pleased that there was such a great response," he said,
"but I'm disappointed with some of the reactions. Really, we are giving them a big break." The An Tostal Committee is taking a $400 loss by giving the discount, he 
pointed out.  He added that this  
years  Wake  was  a  new  type of  
party,  and  that  many  of  the  

planners had gone far out of their ways to. make it a success. He said that the 250 remaining paris of tickets would go on sale 
next Wednesday at the North, South, and SMC dining halls and at 
be announced. He also emphasized that only male-female couples would be allowed into the Irish Wake. 
Joe Russo, Student Union Ticket Manager, stated that he had limited purchases of discount tickets to 8 per person, just like at the sale of concert tickets. He too felt that it was unfortunate that people misunderstood the pre-sale announcements. 
"It is too bad that they didn't r~alize that when the 200 pairs of tickets were gone there just 
place individual contestants." 
The ten events which comprise the decathlon are as follows: nine holes of golf, free throw shooting, swimming, speed skating, 100 yard dash, shot put, long jump, softball throw, billiards, and the mile run. 
Last year, according to Myers, about 75 contestants entered An Tostal's most rugged event. In competition, Joe O'Connor of Zah-



I?S BOAC 

We still have Youth Fares to Europe 
Call Clark 234-2098 and save money. 


wouldn't be any more," he com­mented. 
He.. noted that, those people ambitious enough to arrive early for the sale got discounts and added that often students, thinking about themselves, seem to have no regard for those in charge of distribution. 
Concerning the Irish Wake Gasior commented that it was ~ totally new type of party, uniting the An Tostal Committee with the HPC in running the Wake, Student Government and the Student Union working on decorations at Stepan and with the central staff of th~ Office of Student 'Affairs involved in the planning and invited to at­tend. 
"We hope the students come there with the expectation of having a good time without getting rowdy," he concluded. 
Energy program 


open to public 
A day-long public conference examining how the energy crisis came about and what will happen in the future will be held Monday April 1, at the Center for Con~ tinuing Education. 
Featured speakers at the con­ference will be Exxon Corporation Robert Longmire, the fuel-oil coordinator and authorities from Notre Dame. 
The conference is held in con­junction with the celbration of Notre Dam·~·s Centennial of Engineering Education. It will meet in a morning session from 9 
a.m. to noon, and an afternoon session from 1:30 p.m. to about 5 
p.m. Additional registration in­formation may be obtained by calling 283-7547. 


CLASSIFIED RDS 
NOTICES 
The Mini meal served at Mr. Quick on State Route 23 is a bargain. You get a cheeseburger, golden French fries, Pepsi and mouth watering fruit pie for only 90 cents. 
Political Sci and History Sale at Pandora's Books. March 31 to April 6. 50 per cent off used books. Special 5 cent box. 
Tired of same old bands at every party? Fesh rock sounds now playing for reasonable prices. Call Pat 3274. 
Need home for Labrador till Easter. Will pay. Amiable obedient animal. Call Ke~ 1628. 
FOR SALE 
Top of the line Sanyo quad receiver JUC disc demodulator, 4 speakers, plays discrete, regular matrix and SQ. Must sell!! $550 or best offer Call Ed 1506. 
1971112 Toyota Celica ST, 4­speed tachometer, vinyl top, steel belted radials, excellent condition to 30 mpg. $1995, Call 232-3841. 
Seniors: great buys on graduation stereos. All brands , ,great prices! Golden Dome Records 804 Flanner ph. 1487. 
Pioneer SX 828 and Pioneer SA­SODA amp. Ph.1487. 
WANTED 
Need riders to Madison Wis. Call 3261. 
Need 2 housemates 74; located block from Linebacker. Have to know Apr.1 Tom 233-2712 or Steve 233-6706. 
Need ride to Boston or NH; desperate. $$. Can leave Apr. 8. Jackie 1326. 
Ride needed to Texas Apr. 5. $$Call Gilbert 1217. 
PERSONALS 
Stetson: April is the cruellest month. (is it fecund?) occ:hi verdi. 
Betsy, Happy Birthday ans any gentle days. Ske vington, Cockroach, and Anti christ. 
Helepie,  
Happy  B-day!  A  little more  
permanent!  
Josepie.  

Happy Birthday Mike! 
Puberty is just one more year away! 
Jimbo and Fast Eddie. 
Happy Birthday to the blonde enchantress fmm the guys. 
Badin Hall announces the arrival of The Eternal Virgin. 
challenge the skills of every well­rounded athlete, will be held on "Sunny Saturday", April 20, as part of the An Tostal agenda. 
"This year is the second year we've sponsored the decathlon," says Lou Myers, member of the An Tostal committee, "and so we're changing it a little bit. For example, this year all students, male or female, as well as all faculty members, are eligible to enter. And this year we'll be presenting trophies for the best team and first, second, and third 
new directors, effective today 
WSND has announced depart­ment promotions, effective Aprill. 
Paul Bollwerk, a junior American Studies major from Ponca City, Ok., will head the organization as station manager. The new AM Program director is Steve Weber, an American Studies major from Livingston, NJ., while the FM 

Try A  Few Quarters  In Chicago  
They' II  Be Well  Spent  
THE  

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
Student· At· Large Program 
~tude~ts from ~thPr colle~:es and universities who m~£'1 th~ adnu~swn rP~Uirt~l~l~nl::~ o( the lini\·f-n;ily's undE>rg:raduate College and "ho h;ne th£' lli'IJroval of their ··hom..·· eollet;e may regtster as _:students-at-Laro:e for on~ qu~rter, two 
Quarters, or ~'1 eudre acadPmic year. 
They may enroll in any course for which lhey are acad~>mi­cally Qualified, ~lltkrgraduat~ or graduale. Wlth the apllroval o[ the studt>ut"s own colle~;c, · credits earned at t_he Untversity may he transferred and a1111lied to 
the students de~;"'" pro~;ram. Students are eli~ible to li\·e in the CollegP. nesidPnC£' llalls enJOY all lht• pnnk~es of a l'nil'ersity of Chieago degre~ student, and "tlh~ some time eX(Jiore the cultural re.;ources 
or one or Amcrtea s greatest cities. 
For complete information and application form, write to: 
Student-At-Large Admission Officer College of The University of Chicago 1116 East 59th Street 
· · · • · · · · · · ·Chicago,-tllinbls' 60637' · · · · · 
------~------------­

--------------------·~---· ---·­
.. 8 Monday, April 1, 1974
the observer 

Buckeyes 'weather' ND ruggers 
by Bob Kissel Irish tally was scored by Pete Frantz on a nifty steal behind the 

The sport is spring rugby, but Ohio State serum. apparently no one told the weatherman or the Ohio State 
"The loss hurt," commented rugby squad. This past Saturday Masenga, "but all our players are the Irish rugby teams opened their inexperienced and we learn from 
spring season against the every game, win or lose. The team Buckeyes of Ohio State, amidst a has been slow to starting, but we blinding snowstorm, complete with are definitely ready to put it highwinds and bitter cold tem­together." peratures. 
The Notre Dame "B" squad was able to overcome a s-o halftimeAre weather and field conditions deficit and defeat the Ohio Statea factor which affect play? Yes 

"B" unit, 18-9. Bill Sweeneyand no. No, because both teams scored first for the Irish on a shortmust use the same ball and play on romp up the middle. Larry Casey the same field. Yes, because the provided the other two tries forslippery conditions hampered the ND. John Mcintyre had a perfectsmaller, quicker Irish backs while kicking day, hitting all threethe larger, slower Buckeyes kept conversion attempts.

plowing through the mud and snow 
relatively un~ffected. 
"Our backs played well-­probably the best ever for a "B"The Irish "A" squad lost to Ohio squad," explained rugger LarryState "A" 14-8. Team captain Tom 

Casey. "The backs hit hard theMasenga called it "a very hard­whole game, and eventually, thefought game," and added, "both Buckeyes backs shied away andteams agreed after the game that allowed our scores."

the score could have gone either 
way." 
The Irish "C" team ended the afternoon's contests by blankingThe Irish drew first blood when the Ohio State "C" squad 12-o. 

Irish back Joe Haffner fell on a Once again it was the Irish backs long kick in the Ohio State endzone 
who dominated the tempo of the for the four-point try. The game. Joe McDonald, Jim Burns 
Buckeyes evened the score a few and Tom Welte each scored for the minutes later. The first half ended Domers to pace the Irish offense. 
with a tremendous goalline stand 
as the Irish repeatedly stopped the 
Next Saturday, the Irish ruggers 

Buckeyes from scoring inside the take to the road for their only away Carroll rugby team, as with manytheir ten. Bobo Olson, Ed game this spring. Their opponent other opponents across the nation,
O'Connell, Danny Lee and Mike Carroll, a the
is John long-standing outcome of the Notre DameDacey are some of the Irish serum­rival from Cleveland. For the John will decide the success or failure of

forwards who turned back a its season.
seemingly sure Buckeye rush for a 
good ten minutes. , Globetrotter tix "The game against John Carroll Tickets for Friday night's 8 p.m. shapes up to be another tough, The second half found the Irish Harlem Globetrotters' game at the physical game," commented 
ruggers outfinessed by players of Athletic and Convocation Center Masenga. "Notre Dame is its big 
considerably more experience. In game and it should be hard-hitting
can still be obtained at the A.C.C. 

fact, one Ohio rugger has been Box Office (Gate 10) from 9 a.m. to from the start. John Carroll will be 
playing the game for 30 years, 5 p.m. Tickets are priced at $4.50 really up for this game and have 
more than the combined total of <lower arena -sidecourt), $3.50 the home-field advantage, but 
the entire ND serum. The other (end court) and $2.50 (bleachers). we're ready to play." 
Stickmen go 2-2 on road 

by George Eckes help the Irish back from a 7-1 halftime deficit. Columbus finally won, 10-3. The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club finished a vigorous 
Against the Bowling Green Falcons, the Irishweek of activity on the road with losses to Columbus suffered another loss, almost a carbon copy of theand Bowling Green before defeating Ohio State and 

Purdue. Columbus game. The Falcons opened up a 7-1 half­time lead and coasted to a 10-3 victory.
The only league loss came at the hands of Columbus in the Ohio State Tournament last As in the Columbus game, Notre Dame played even weekend. Facing a team consisting of college­during the second half, but could not get back into the 
experienced players, the Irish were, quickly disposed contest that was decided in the first quarter. Bob of early in the contest. John Corcoran, Rich Caron Thibodeau, with two goals, and Steve Tarnow scored and Fedele Volpe each scored one goal, but could not for the Irish. 
"Bowling Green is a highly-skilled team," Coach Rich O'Leary said. "They clear their area well and did not depend on individuals. It was a perfect team performance by the Falcons." 
In a dramatic encounter with the host of the tournament, the Irish stickmen pulled out a 7-6 win over the Buckeyes in overtime. With five seconds left in regulation and the Irish down 5-4, Caron pushed a shot by the OSU goaltender to knot the score. 
Lacrosse uses an unorthodox procedure to decide ties. The game has two overtime periods of equal length. No matter what the score is after the first extra-session, a second one is played. 
In the OSU game, the first overtime was scoreless. However, the Buckeyes took a temporary 6-5 lead early in the last period. Notre Dame's Volpe, who as held scoreless to this point, then pushed in the tying and winning goals in the last minutes of the period to give his teammates victory. 
It looked like another close game against Purdue as 

.. the Irish stickmen~ couldn't adjust to the Boiler­maker's zone defense. However, Notre Dame came out in the second half to balloon its slim 4-3lead to the final, 9-4. Caron had three goals, Thibodeau and Tarnow had two each, and Volpe and Ron Sadowski tallied the others. 
The stickmen have one more non-conference match with Michigan State this coming Saturday in East Lansing beforetaking on Mid-West lacrosse foe, Michigan, Tuesday, April 9, under the lights at Cartier Field. 




Csonka, Kiick, Warfield to WFL: ink $3M pact·
by Milton Richman 
UPI Sports Editor 

Larry Csonka, hero, prime mover and MVP in Miami's one-sided Super Bowl win, jumped to the new World Football League Sunday along with Dolphin teammates Jim Kiick and Paul Warfield, all signing with the Toronto Northmen for a $3 million package -the largest ever put together in the entire history of sports. 
The defection of the three, who will play out their options with the Dolphins this season before reporting to Toronto in 1975, amounts to a major body blow for the much longer established National Football League. 
Csonka, his running back buddy, Kiick, and Warfield, probably the finest wide receiver in the game, all arrived in Toronto with their representative, Ed Keating, Friday night 





OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
COLLEGE GRADUATES! 
BE ALAWYER'S ASSISTANT 
A challenging career in the field of law. 
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY, a major university in downtown Chicago, in cooperation with The National Center for Legal Training, offers an intensive 12-week course for college grad­uates, that upon completion qualifies them to assume para­legal responsibilities as skilled members of the legal team. 
Specialize in: SUMMER SESSION: 
• 
Corporations June 10 through August 30, 1974 

• 
Estates, Trusts and Wills FALL SESSION: 

• 
Litigation September 23 through December 13, 1974 

• 
Real Estate and Mortgages WRITE TODAY FOR FREE BROCHURE or call (312) 341-3655 



r------------------------,
1 Lawyer's Assistant Program 116 -~ I 
College of Continuing Education I
I ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY •
1 430 South Michigan Avenue 1
I Chicago, Illinois 60605 I 
Please send me information on Roosevelt's lawyer's Assistant 
1 1
Program.
1 1 
1 Name 1 I Addres I I City State ip I 
L------------------------~ 





