On The Inside 
Mini-course on Insurance 
...page  2  
Valentine's  Day  Story  
...page  4  



serving the notre dame -sf. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 79 Thursday, February 14, 1974 

Sale in novelist's house 
Solzhenitsyn exiled to West GeriDany bt Alex Frere 
FRANKFURT (UPI)-Alexander I. Solzhenitsyn, the novelist who won the Nobel prize of his stinging revelations of brutality in Soviet prison carnps, was stripped of his Soviet citizenship Wednesday and ex­pelled into exile in West Germany with only the clothes on his back. 
"I arn very tired and very worried about my family," Solzhenitsyn said when he arrived at the Frankfurt airport under guard aboard a Soviet jetliner. "Only this morning I was in prison." 
"Because of rny family, I cannot say anything," he said. "I can give no interviews. Not today, not tor:HJI-row and not in the next couple of days. I must ihink things over." 
In Moscow, Solzbenitsyn's wife, Natalya, said later, "We intend to follow him, certainly, but when, where­we just don't know." 
She said Solzhenitsyn telephoned her from West Gerr:~any Wednesday night and told berhe had been held at Lefortovo prison in Moscow overnight after his arrest Tuesday. He said he was in good health. They spoke for about 15 r:1inutes. 
The Soviet government announced Solzhenitsyn's deportation twu hours after a Soviet jetliner bearing hir.1 had landed in this West German city. It was the fi1·st official Soviet r:1ention of lbe 55-year -old Nobel Prize iaureale since seven police officers burst into his Moscow apa1·trnent Tuesday night and arrested him. 
A stater.1ent by the Soviet news agency Tass had said Solzhenitsyn's family could join him ''when they deem iI necessa1·y." 
Solzhenitsyn, 55, an·ived here on a regularly scheduled Soviet jet of the Aeroflot airline ac­cor:lpanied by guards. As he got off the plane after the other 40 passengers a girl in pink pants handed him a red rose while. West German border police applauded. He wore a brown fur hat and dark brown coat, ap­parently the clothes he grabbed from a bedroom when KGB Soviet secret police took him away Tuesday night. 
The bearded author was driven away from the airpm·t in a black Mercedes limousine with West German Foreign Ministry license plates. He went to Langenbroich, a· village in the Eiffel Mountains where his fellow Nobel prize winner, novelist Heinrich Boell, has a country home. 
Solzhenilsyn and Boell embraced, then went inside. 
Soviet sources in Moscow said that Solzhenitsyn, who always Painlained he would never the Soviet Union voluntarily, changed his Pind at a meeting with governenl prosecutors after his arrest Tuesday night and agreed to go into exile. 
But Buell, in an interview with the West German ZDF Television Nelwtwk, said Solzbenitsyn "did not iave the Soviet Union voluntarily." 
Soviet sources said authorities had planned to give Solzhenilsyn two or three days to prepare his der­pal·tw·e with his family when they served a summons on hiP last Friday. 

Hearst seeks compromise with daughter's captors 

by Art McGinn 

BERKELEY, Calif. <UPil-The father of Patricia Hearst, urging her to "hang in there, honey," said Wednesday he could not come up with a $400 million food handout to the needy but that he would try as far as he could to meet her kidnapers' demands. 
The publisher appeared twice before television car.1eras Wednesday outside the family home after the Syr.1bionese Liberation Army called for a distribution of $70 worth of food to each of 4.7 Pillion needy in California. 
St•·uggling to keep his voice from breaking in his first appearance, Hearst--addressing Patricia directly in the hope she was listening in her kidnappers' hideout said that the SLA dernand, largest ransom figure in history, was "iPpossible to J:)eet." 
Four hours later, Hearst emerged again and said he thought his fi1·st remarks might indicate he did not want to negotiate for the 1·elease of the 19-year-old Patricia and that he wanted to "da1·ify" the statement. 
"I don't see how we can r.1eet a $400 million 
prog1·am," he said. 
"But I want them the abductors to know that I want to set up the type of program they are talking about. If it doesn't satisfy them, it won't be because I haven't done everything I can." 
"This is a r.1atter of extent, of how much we can do, of how r.1uch money is available." 
Dw·ing his first appearance, he grasped the hand of his 56-year-old wife, Catherine, who was c1·ying, and said he would come up with a "counter offer" in the next 24 to 48 hours. 
"I just want you to know that I'm going to do 
everything lean to get you out of there," he said 
in 1·er.1arks dil·ected to his daughter. 
"It's a little frightening because the original demand is what T was afraid of from the 
beginning, is one that is impossible to rneet." 
Mrs. Hearst, a chic r:1atron dressed in a black wool knit d1·ess with a high necline and wearing a twin strand of pearls, also stepped in front of the television catneras in the gravel driveway. She could not slop weeping. 
"We love you, Patty, and we're all praying for you," sbe said. 
"I'r:1 sorry l'r.l crying but I'm happy you're safe. I know these people have good ideals but ihey'1·e just going about them in the-wrong way. They wouldn't want to make you suffer for something we did. 
"God bless you, honey." 
Hearst said he wanted to make sure that the per:1bers of the SLA who kidnaped the sandy­haired university coed from her Berkeley apa1·tment Feb. 4 unde'I"Stand that "I'm leveling with them." 
"I want to clarify any rnisconception that I am being ha1·d line. That is just not so. I am going to do everything I can. That is the important thing. If that's not enough, I can't help it." 
The Hean;ts, their four other daughters and Patricia's fiance, Sleven Weed, have been together at the suburban Hillsborough home waiting for fur-ther word from Patricia who said in a tape 1·ecm·ding received Tuesday that she was "okay." 
Chal"les Bales, special agent in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in San Fran­cisco, said, "I think we are in for a long siege" in the kidnaping. 
Speaking at a news media luncheon, Bates said 
in what he termed a general comr.,ent not 
specifically directed to the Hearst case that 
"I've never seen anything good come out of 
curnpror.1ising with a bunch of hoods." 

IIIIIIJIIIIIIIIJIJJIIIJIIIIJIIIJJIIIIIIIIJJIJIJJIJIJIIIIIIIHIIJIIIIIJUJJIJIJIIIUIHIJJIIIIIJJHIUIJUUHIII-UIHHIIIIIID IIMI'IIIIIJUIIJHJJIJJJRIIIIIHJUIIJUIJJIII 

Happy ValentineS Day 

personal valentines on pages 5 & 6 

University trustees. officers to hear renovation issues 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
Student Body President Dennis Etienne announced yesterday that the LaFortune Renovation controversy would be given a hearing before theTrusleesand Officers of the Unive1·sity. Etienne's statement followed a r.1eeting between students and administrators. 
Etienne refeJTed to his attack on ad­Pinistration handling of the matter which he r.1ade before the SLC on Monday. "Basically I wanted to point out some growing problems that had not been dealt with. We had heard that the students plans fnr renovation were going to be thrown out without consideration so a strong statement was needed." 
The agreement to let the Trustees decide !he question pleased the student leaders. "I have confidence that the hearing will be cnr.1pletely fair and that is all we are asking for," Etienne said. 
The r:1eeting was called to resolve pmbler.1s arising from a student plan to extensively renovate. LaFortune Student Center which was rejected by the ad­Pinistration. Attending the meeting were Etienne, Student Vice President After Student Body President Dennis Etienne's attack on the Geisinger, and student members of the University's handling of the LaFortune Renovation Project, he an­1·enovation conunittee. Administration nounced yesterday that the issue will get a hearing before the ,·epresenlatives included Dr. Ackerman, University's Board of Trustees. Dr~ Phillip Faccenda, who was Dr. Faccenda and Fr. Schlaver whowere mentioned in Etienne's criticism, still declines comment on Etienne's unavailable for comment. charges. 
To teach fundamentals 


warld 
briefs 

LONDON <tTPll--As dim-outs and power cutbacks hit Britain, the nation's striking coal miners agreed Wednesday to put their wage der.,ands before the government's anti-inflation Pay Board"-a Pove rhat could cut short their three-day-old strike. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>--Outmaneuvering a dissident France, the United Srates won a hard-fought agreement from 11 other major 11il-consur.1ing industrial allies Wednesday to seek a conference with Middle East and other oil-producing states "at the earliest possible opportunity." 
WASHINGTON <UPI>--Initial talks between lawyers for p, esidenr Nixon and the House Judiciary Committee indicate the White House r.1ay resist committee requests or subpoenas for P' esidenrial documents and tapes, a source close to the im­peachr.,ent inquiry said Wednesday. 
PU:\OM PEl\'11 (lTPil--Cambodian government troops hunting down Cor.,nunist artillery units that had shelled Phnom Penh with deadly fire \\'ere stopped short by heavy rebel resistance Wed­rwsday on rhe banks of a river just south of the capital. 
an campus l:aday 
9 a.m.-5 p.m.--peace corps and vista representatives, library lobby 
3:30 p.m.--lecture, "integrated multidisciplinary research development applied to process development" by dr. a. baneil, rm. 3030 eng. bldg. 4 p.m.--lecture, "uganda: the amin phenomenon" by prof. hasu h. patel, rm. 1201 library 7 p.m.--lecture, "the renaissance icon" by sr. eva mary hooker, stapleton lounge 
7:30 
p.m.lecture, "african music: an anthropological perspective" by alan p. merriam, carroll hall 

7:30 
p.m.--lecture, introduction to charismatic renewal, butler bldg. 8 p.m.--soph lit fest, jason miller, playwright, actor, washington hall 


8:15 p.m.--student recital, paula homer, mezzo-soprano, little theater 
8:30 p.m.--meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, holy cross hall 
Trades1nen cause $10,000 in.damage 
LANSING, Mich. <UPil-Angry rrade-smen smashed windows, slashed tires and tipped over two flatbed trucks on a non-union construction project Wednesday and then invaded a restaurant owned by the contractor and "rore r he place apart." 
The violence started early in the day at a construction site where a trucker ernployed by a sub­contractor drove his rig into picketers Tuesday, injuring nine persons, one seriously. 
A group of about 50 r-1en left the picket line Wednesday and mar­ched some two blocks to Long's Restaurant, walked in and began rearing up seats and smashing oight fixtures while customers watched. 
Dar.1age was estimated at $10,000 by the restaurant owner, Gordon L. Long, who also is the r.1ain contractm· on the con­struction project. Long was in seclusion following a reported beating on the job site Tuesday and several threats on his life and those of his family. 
No injuries or arrests were reporte-d as a result of We-d­nesday's violence, though picketers narrowly avoided a confrontation with police in an unsuccessful attempt to enter the construction site. 
At r.1idday, there were between 
B. . ­'Twas the Purdue weekend of '72, That this fool fell for you. But that was more than a year ago, And my love has not ceased to grow. I guess maybe I should wonder why, Instead I thank Him in the sk . C.M. 
400 and 500 picketers on the line. 
Joseph Davis of Grand Rapids, ,·egional director of the non-union Associated Builders and Con­tractors <ABC) of which the Long Development Co. is a member, held a news conference on behalf of Long. 
Davis said that during the dispute over the use of non-union tabor on the job he, Long and r.1anagement consultant Jim Paris all have been the targets of telephoned threats. He said Long has been beaten on the Job site rwice. 
Mini-course on insurance held 
by Mary Pat Sullivan 
Staff Reporter Cha1·les Reddy, university in­surance officer, gave the first class of the mini-course on Fun­dar-1entals of Insurance Tuesday night. The session was the first of four to be held on consecutive Tuesday nights, and different angles of automobile and liability insurance were explored. The r-,ini-course is sponsored by rhe Arts and Letters Student Ad­visory Council for the purpose of equipping inexperienced students with enough knowledge of insurance to enable them to buy wisely. Reddy explains the fun­dar.1entals of a topic and then is ready to answer any quiestions or )'ive advice for the solution of particula1· problems. Tuesday night he advised on various problems such as renting without a 

served that buying insurance is not like gambling. The probablity of insurable loss always exists 
whefher insurance is bought or not, whereas there is no probablity of ioss in a gamble until the bet is Pade. 
His advice for getting a dependable policy and good ser­vice is to pick out the most reputable agent and go to a big company. A good place to check on a company's standing is in the business section in any Public Library. 
Reddy explained that insurance eor.1panies worry about the frequency of claims rather than the severity of one particular claim. He r.'entioned that ·if a policy owner collects on having his car towed every Tuesday of the winter it's likely that his policy won't be renewed. He also advised against Paking a claim in an 
lease <how not to get dumped in the -accident caused by drunk driving 
street), and the strength of a claim 
on articles stolen from a Win­nebago in New Orleans. The function of insurance, as Reddy explained, is "to shift the risk". In other words, an in­dividual's financial responsibility for bodily injury or property dar.1age is taken over by the in­surance company. Reddy ob-



Lovelace in deep trouble 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. (UPI) ­Linda Lovelace, 25, whose fame as a star of pornographic 
r.1ovies  began  with  the  film  
"Deep  Throat,"  was  named  in  
a  two-count  criminal  complaint  

filed Wednesday by the district attorney's office charging her with drug violations. 
The actress was charged with possessing cocaine and am­phetamines. Charges against Hollywood director David Win­ters, 34, were dropped for insufficient evidence. 
The couple was arrested in a rwo-roor.1 suite at the Dunes Hotel Jan. 31 by vice squad officers with the Metropolitan Police Department. They were freed on $7,000 bail each. Miss Lovelace has been ordered to rer-1ain in Las Vegas pending arraignrnent. 

THE SENIOR CLASS PRESENTS 


THE ST. VALENTINE'S 
DAY 

MASSACRE PARTY 
ATTH~RMORY 
(WHERE ELSE?) 

THIS FRIDAY FROM 9-1 
50 kegs, free hot dogs & peanuts 
Free Buses from Circle: 
Return: 12:00, 12:30,8:30, 9:00, 9:30 1:00 

TICKETS ON SALE AT DIN.ING HALLS AND AT OFF CAMPUS OFFICE FROM 11-1:30. 
if the policy owner at fault wants to 
continue to be insure-d by . his company. "They'll pay" he said, "They can't take away what you paid for, but they'll get disen­chanted with you and won't ever be 
with you again." 
Reddy is a practising lawyer and Notre Dame's Insurance Officer. As insurance officer, he is in charge of insuring the three­hundred cars owned by Notre Dar.1e and handling all other university insurance business. 
The remaining classes will deal with homeowner, theft, property and iife insurance. Other areas will be covered on request. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for·· S8 per semester (514 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

,__:__:___:_:.....:.:._::..:::::.::::__:_::__=====:::::::::=:===::____, 
NOW 
ACCEPTING MANUSCIPTS 

(Fiction, Drama, Poetry, Essays, or any work 
of literary genius) 
AND ART WORK 
FOR SPRING ISSUE OF JUGGLER 

MAIL TO: Editor, Juggler, Box583, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 or BRING TO: SCHOLASTIC OFFICE -4th Fioor of La Fortune. (Slide it under the door) 
DEADLINE: March 7. 


r 
Friedman notes swing to movies 
• t ' · • • -. ~ ' ~ " • I 
Thursday, February J4,. J97A.. the observer 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
Writer Bruce Jay Friedman discussed the problems in multi­r.,edia with a large crowd of students yesterday afternoon in the Library Lounge. 
Friedman, whose works include novels, screen-plays, short stories and theatrical plays, advised students to "celebrate great lite1·ature fast because it is quickly disappearing." 
Pointing to the "embarrassingly sr-1att number of magazines publishing short stories," Friedrnan observed, "You have to be crazy to write short stories for a iiving. That ship is sinking and I'm ~oing down with it." 
The novel as an art form, despite occassianal revivals like Mario Puzo's The Godfather. is also on the wane, according to Friedman. 
"Most of the young novelists of today are the film r.1akers," he stated. 
Friedman mentioned the frenzied interest in films among the young people today and praised developr.1ents in the artistic value uf r.'ovies. 
"Lately I've seen a number of good films and you get the feeling that these r.1ovies weren't created around a Hollywood conference table," Fl"iedman said. 
Friedman also spoke of the opportunities and obslac.les for those wishing to enter the field of literature as a career. 
"I went to a journalism school and it is 99 per cent worthless unless you want to become a writer for the daily papers," Friedman noted. 
Friedr.1an stressed the im­portance of having a job while writing in the spare time. "It's useful to have a job where you're using different rnuscles from those you use for writing," he said. 
"You have to work to subsist and it might take four years to write a novel," Friedman explained. "Even a bad effort, spending a few years on a poor piece of work, may be helpful." 
"By writing poorly, at least you have the opportunity to learn to write well," he said. 
Speaking of the diversity in the Pedia, Friedman said, "You have in work in the form in which the idea occurs to you." 
"Yet the differences between the forr.1s of media tend to be exaggerated," Friedman ob­served. "There is almost no established Ar-1erican novelist who hasn't had a flirtation with the theater." 
"The technical problems vanish if the novelist approaches the theater with the same force with which he approaches the novel," he staled. 
Speaking about his personal preferences as a writer, Friedman said, "A work isn't enough for me if it is only entertainment." 
Responding to a question about the makings of a successful writer, Friedman stated, "It amounts to the question of would you rather reach 300,000 people just for the sake of reaching them or reach 7,000 people and really make a difference to them .. 

"It's not enough to write a few good books, you always have to bring along something better the next time," he said. 
Fl"iedman also stated that his conception of the best writer is "•he one who hits the midpoint between the animal and the in­tellectual in man." 
Fl"iedman gained his reputation as a "black humorist" by com­piling an anthology of works of "black humor," He pointed out that r.'uch of the humor in his personal works is inspired by actual news stories. 
One instance was his com­petitive spirit causing him to cheer for record-breaking fatality figures on holiday weekends. "It's not funny. It's sad," Friedman noted. 
The CUJTent tenor of the news often r.1akes the humorist un­necessary, Fl'iedman stated. "One has to ask how a humorist can 
Nixon may buck subpoena 
ON <UPI) -Initial talks between lawyers for President Nixon and the House Judiciary Committee indicate the White House may resist committee requests or subpoenas for presidential documents and tapes, a source close to the impeachment inquiry said Wednesday. 
The source said that in a first Peeling between the lawyers this week, the White House representative indicated he believed he was required by law to keep the r.1aterials confidential, apparently because of the Watergate grand jury proceedings. 
Watergate Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski also has said he is prevented from giving grand jury r.1aterial even to the impeachment inquiry staff becaause he is required by law to keep it con­fidential. He has told Committee Special Counsel John M. Doar in several r.1eetings that Doar would have to go to U.S. District Court to get the restriction lifted. 
THURSDAY IS NOTRE DAME NITE AT 
PIZZA HUT 
FROM 5-MIDNIGHT, WITH EACH LARGE PIZZA, YOU GET A PITCHER OF BEER FOR 75 CENTS! 
GO EAST ON EDISON TO IRONWOOD (LESS THAN A MILE) 
Dnar and Albert E. Jenner, chief GOP counsel for the inquiry, ap­parently heard the same argument in their r.1eeting with James D. St. Clair, President Nixon's chief Watergate lawyer. 
Judiciary Chairman Peter W. Rodino Jl'., D-N.J., refused to even confirm that the meeting of the three lawyers took place and would not characterize it. He said Doar and Jenner had to report to the full comr.1ittee at a closed meeting on Thursday before the substance of the discussion could be disclosed. 
Even before the Doar, Jenner and St. Clair talk, several membes of the committee had expressed concern about the panel going to 

mczn.., hail 
1tyl ng 
men's hair Stylin 


~n8'l(;ir3ti(Zin 
WHATEVER THE
.. 





fl:..·ef.[]rj

ss-••oo a._" .. -------. 
~· "\\s\S
s\1 

HAIR CARE FOR 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA,IND. .46544 


court for anything concerning ir.1peachment. 
The revelation the White House r.1ight resist requests or subpoenas for documents apparently presented the committee with another dilemma. 
Members concerned about going to the courts contend that since the House is directed by the Con­stitution to carry out impeachment proceedings, there is no bar whatsoever to the committee's l'ight to information of any kind. 
Rodino has quoted President Polk saying the right of an im­peachment inquiry reaches into the ''secret recesses'' of the presidency. 
possibly parody Martha Mitchell? How does a humorist improve on 
Nixon's  state  of  the  Union  ad­ 
dress?"  
A  question  concerning  the  

Solzhenitsyn episode in Russia initiated a discussion on the sub­


"l'r.1 not feeling very smug that Russia is bad and we are better. When you must change one word of your work at another person's behest, you have compromised the work and should not be able to look at yourself in the mirror," 
TONIGHT: 


TUDENTS N THE GO~ 
PICK THE "PICK" BEFORE YOU PACK! CHECK OUT OUR SPECIAL DISCOUNT RATE ( 10%) .AVAILABLE MOST OF THE YEAR 
CALL TOLL FREE 800-AE-8-5000 
FOR FAST RESERVATIONS AT ANY ALPERT PICK MOTOR INN+ HOTEL 
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY AS LISTED BELOW 
Chicago, 111............. Pick-Congress Hotel 
Chicago (Des Plaines), Ill. O'Hare-American Inn 
Columbus, 0 ..................... Pick-Fort Hayes Hotel 
East lansing, Mich ........... Albert Pick Motor Hotel 
Greensboro, N.C............. Albert Pick Motor Inn 
Harrisbur, Pa............ ... Nationwide Inn 
Houston, Texas............ Albert Pick Motor Inn 
Memphis, Tenn............ Albert Pick M!)tor Inn 
Miami Beach, Fla............ Albert Pick ..rotella 
Nashville, Tenn............ 'Albert Pick Motel 
Rockford, 111............ Albert Pick Motel 
Sacramento, Cal............ Caravan Inn 
San Antonio, Tex............ Albert Pick Motel 
South Bend, Ind............ Albert Pick Motor Inn 
Terre Haute, Ind............ Albert Pick Motel 
Washington, D.C............. Pick-lee House 
l
APerican prisoner of war. He was caught with aMICHAEL LAVOIE teapot he had found amid the rubble. He was arrested and shot for plundering.
1

• D Sf 
The recovery people gathered dead bodies together
A VaIentIn e S ay 0 ry in huge, r.loldering heaps, added gasoline, and set 
thern to fil"e. The heaps of bodies became heaps of 
I first iearned about the catastrophe while reading Through the pall of smoke remnant from the first ashes. Then, the ashes were transported to mass Slaughter-house-Five by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. In this assault, thesecondstrikedropped its bombs. And then gYaves. And with the scorched dead swept into their book, Vonnegut relates the stm-y of the disastrous fire-they went home. Afew hours later more planes came: . graves, D1·esden looked like a crumbling gray city of boPbing of Dresden, Germany during World War II. the third strike. They deposited their cargo and then ancient times, just excavated. He was a prisoner of wa1· there at the time of the they too went home. Why did the fi1·e-bombing occur? Who knows? Air bor.,bing and fortunately lived to write about it. Beforehand the crews of these planes had been Marshall Sir" Robert Saundby, a commanding officer at 
I <ater iearned r.1ore about the disaster through "briefed" about the city they were to bomb. They were the tirne of the bombing, says this about it: "That the reading The Destruction of Dresden by David Irving. told that they were attacking the German Army bor.1bing of Dresden was a great tragedy none can In this book, Irving presents a documentary, start to Headquarters, that Dresden was an important in-deny. That it was a military necessity, few..will finish, account of the fiJ·e-bombing. · dustrial city, and that they were striking tremendous believe. It was one of those terrible things that 
Together these books told r.1e many sad, shameful, Gen•1an arnr.1unition dumps. In few instances were sor.1etir.1es happen in wartime, brought about by an and indeed shocking things about what happened in they told the truth: that there were twenty-six unfortunate cor.lbination of circumstances." An Dresden during the winter· of 1945. I will relate to you thousand prisoners of war in the city's suburbs, that estir.1ated 135,000peoplediedasa result of the Dresden 
•his trag.ic episode of World War II, an episode which there were several hundred thousand refugees in the fi1·e-bor.1bing. One of those terrible things. had been hidden or at least obscured by military and city, and that Dresden was almost militarily worthless. T1·uly, the fi1·e-bombing of D1·esden was a political ieaders during the early post-war years. For Whethe1· or not the Bomber Comr.1and fully knew this catastmphe. We know though that this catastrophe 
easons of "security," they glued the Top Secret t1·uth is still questionable. It is likely they must have was neither the beginning nor the end of mass war sticker on the information concerning it. Only over the had sor.1e knowledge. killings. Wol'ld War I left eight million corpses. past decade has sor.1e !J·uth of the D1·esden fire-However l'·'isconceived, the bomber's task was Millions of Russians were slaughtered during the boPbing been revealed. perforr.1ed with disastrous precision. From a distance, Stalin purges. Six r.1illion Jews were exterminated in 
The catastJ·ophic fire-bombing of Dresden during Dresden looked like a fuming witch's brew. rhe Nazi ovens. The atom bomb dropped on Hiroshima \Vu,·id War II began on Tuesday night, February 13, The dawn of Tuesday, Feb1·uary 13, had shown off a kiHed over seventy-one thousand people. Human 1945. Atiied bor.lbers were flying over Germany beautiful, a1·tful, and populous Dresden. It was a beings killed in Southeast Asia in recent years total •owards Dresden. It was about ten o-clock and the changed place though at the dawn of Wednesday, hundreds of thousands. Indeed, this is a sickening roll whoie of the countryside below them seemed to be February 14. Darkened by three mile high columns of l·aH, undoubtedly with some omissions. But still and swathed in banks of endless clouds. Above them, the yellow-brown smoke and ashes, the dawn showed off a yet, these are the trademarks of modei'D warfare. coid February sky was clear and stan·y. As they flame-gutted, gruesorn, and deathly Dresden. As the I have acquainted you with one of these trademarks, neared Dresden, losing three and four thousand feet scattered fires still burned, once beautiful Dresden •he fil·e-bnr.tbing of D1·esden during World War II. It per 1'1' inute, the clouds began clearing away, just as the becar.1e f·'erely a city of ashes. was one of the terl'ibly stupid and crazily deadly things f.leteol'Ologists at Bomber Command had predicted. Wednesday, February 14, 1945 was, of course, Saint that sor.'e people have done, and are doing, to other And when they reached D1·esden they found only three Valentine's Day. Most ironically, this day was also the people. It defies satisfactory understanding, sours thin layers of cloud over the city. At about this same fi1·st day of Lent, Ash Wednesday. This day then was social uptir.1isrn, and weakens the human spirit. It 'ir.le, the awaited flare-force of eighty-three squadron quite fittingly a day for both love and penitence. A day Pust be unsettling to even the captains of war. airplanes also arrived. This lighting crew then gave a for cindered hearts. Wednesday, Februa1'Y 14, 1945 . had the easily shower of f.lagnesium parachute flares. The city was After ihe fire-born bing of D1·esden, . the recovery deserved distinction of being both Valentine's Day and iHur.linated in the sprinkled glare of lights. Night was people came to restore order. The first task they were Ash Wednesday, of being a day for both love and day, and by the a1·tificiallight the bombers let fall their given was to clear the streets of the dead. There was penitence. Today is Thursday, February 14, 1975, and ca1·go of bor.1bs. Most of the bombs were of the in-one worke1· who never forgot what he saw on one it canies only half the distinction. It is Valentine's Day cendiary type, that is, the kind that not only explode, sidewalk. His eyes winced and his hands trembled as but not Ash Wednesday, just a plain Thursday. but also intensely inflame. These capsules of fire he viewed the ,·ernains of what apparently had been a Huweve1·, r.,aybe today should be treated as Ash spialte1·ed on the city, producing not just craters, but a Pothe1· and child. They had been burned together and Wednesday. For that matte1·, r.1aybe all days should be holocaust. stuck rigidly to the asphalt. The 111other was hunched treated as Ash Wednesday. Likewise, perhaps all days 
The airplanes flew back to England. Three hours over the child with her arms clasped around it. Both should be !J·eated as Valentine's Day. In our time, few <ater r.wre planes 1·eturned to the Dresden skies and were unidentifiable. a1·e ihe days that do not need a devotion to both love the showet· of incendiary bombs was repeated. There was anothe1· recovery wm·ke1· who was an and penitence. 

--~--------------------------------------------~ 
Farley hotel open to all 
Staf! Reporter by Janet Denefe 

The Farley Motel is open for business. The Motel, located in the baser.1ent of Farley Hall has accor.Jodations for 36 and is open to any wor.1en who are friends of Notre Dame students. 
The ND hosts, who do not need to be Farley residents nor female, r.'ust check in their week-end visitors at the guest area between 
7:30 and 9:00 pm on Friday. AJTanger.lents can be made for guests arriving Saturday or mid­week by contacting Pat McNamee at 7180. 
McNar.1ee, the R.A. in charge of the g.uest area, commented that "1he Motel has been filled to capacity during football week-ends and Mardi Gras. On regular week· ends, there are fifteen to twenty 
g. iris staying there, so it has been a success." 
Girls r.tust be at least seventeen years old to be registered and standard University parietal hour 1·egulations apply in the guest area. Fee for occupancy is $1.00 per night. 
Night Editor; Bill Brink Asst. Night editor: Dan Sanchez, Dean Janke Layout Staff: .. Ginny Faust, Gary Aliieta Copy Editor: Terry Keeney Day Editors: Pattie Cooney and Tom Bundy Typists: Barb Narcrosse, Howard Halle, Tom Modglin, Mary Romer' Arrleh Compugraphics: Carolina Pictures: Dealer McDope HAL.Sitter: Carolina Dirtball Sports Staff: Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor 
daanesbury 
IJarrytrudeau 

PUT YOUR SLIDES UP IN LIGHTS!! 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association wants your 3Smm 
Kodachrome or Ektachrome slides for use in multi.media presentaions on campus and in Alumni Clubs around the country. We'll duplicate particularly appropriate slides from your collection and compensate you (modestly) for their use. We can use general campus scenes and seasonal shots, as well as slides of hall life, sports, other student ac. tivities, etc. Contact Mike Jordan in the Alumni Office at 7267. Or visit us in the Main Building (second floor, west wing). 



TO'N'i'G'H'Ti"/"i""""""""""'""'"""":~;""""""":===~
~~lii

Grand Opening tlN"Ii;J = 
§ 
he Playhouse ~-= 
525 N. Hill 2nd DRINKS ARE 1¢!!! Live entertainment Fri.& "Jesse Fisher & 9th E 
~~~;~~;:~~:""ij;~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIR 
100 Center 

CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES 

FRYE BOOTS 
SENIORS .... "Show Some Pride" NOMINATE THE PERSON OF YOUR CHOICE 
Petitions available 
in student go·vt. office. Questions, call Jerry 232-3876 
I
I 
Thursday, February 14, 1974 the observer 
Mr. & Mrs. Teddy Bearski (or is it Ben Hurski this week?)-­have each other for V-day--as Valentines that is! 
Da' Hunk: hope you find someone to give your valentine to this year. 
Closet Woman: If you won't come out, I'll have to slide your valentine under the door. 
Dear Chuck, From one jovial to another, happy valentines day. 
Love, Chuck. 

Victoria, Are you lonesome tonight? (Feb. 19). 
La barbe Rouge. 

Dear Hot Lips, Anxiously awaiting a sensous valentine kiss. 
A mole. 

Mr. Wonderful, From one heathen to another­happy V. day. 
Miss America. 

Ann, Happy Valentine Day. With all my Jove. 
Craig. 

Darling Fumbles-Name the date, rent a stadium Terry Beaseley: and the Spaghetti Bowl Classic BMOC. will be played in yourhonor! Happy Valentines Day! The Lady in Red 
Happy birthday.  See  you  at  
dinner.  
2JD.  

Karen, To a Camel: 

Happy Valentines Day. You're my valentine. ya. 
Happy Birthday to our favorite dearest Swineherd,
Love, j. 
Valentine TOMMY HOOVER. Marriage is a lot better than


a bee. --------------------­
Tee Hee and LaRue, Love you always. it's cracked up to be! fem Keep your mustache trimmed Shonna and Diela, Mitzi, Irene, I'll do it again anytime!!!
Wanted: one Valentine 
who loves to cook Free, covers and your lettuce in mouth. Ova, Patti, Shelli, Spicky, -Your loving wife. 
and trident horns. Happy Valentines Day LaRue, WW, Billie Jean, R.P., Dirt. Uncle Otto's 5-1. 
Sid This place is a rhubarb. But IMy darling Momma, 
Bo-Bo Olsen: can take it if you can.
The paths we once walked Swahili, 
When wiII you chase me Poopsie. Love and kisses, bring your bone back to the 
await our return. 'speak' me a heartache and 
around the field like you did Daddy. South Dining Hall. H.V.D. Brand X? Happy V.D. To DM, Special Person from Eric the Pigmy. A Secret Admirer. Vermont from upstate NY. Dear Rachel G., 
Love, Happy Valentines Day.Happy Vidax to the "SectionHappy Valentines Day. Dont Baton Rouge Belle, Sweethearts' of Suites 1474, n, Ice Cream Scoops: Quita • Ia' play too much volleyball. Happy Valentine Ann,From 
two shy Admirers. 78. Thanx for the good times! ropa'
Big AI Tavera. 

Next party is on us. -6723. 
Eric and Brian. Biceps 
Dear Donna 4th floor Walsh, Your beauty intrigues me. 
B.B. 151 Alumni 
Dear Rebecca, Skybird-. Happy Valentine Day Do you
So I finally get to see your ~&Your icetea Is waiting. Happy reahze that this is our third Sunnybrook farm. Thursday 1 .•;w;;··· Viday. together. I love you. 
Machonis, want your smile-Friday's a ·• w; ····• -love, B. B. I've been looking all over NO different story!! Happy V.O. Kathy and Patti. for you. Sorry about that night Your bestest customer. M. Short 
P.S. I'll call you soon. 
at Pete's. Let's reconcile. Be 6ur Valentine, Mongo. Had another dream about you. 
Antoine, Happy Birthday, Maureen. We Marry me.
Love, 

love you both. The dynamic Duo,
AC-DC When will we see vou In an Wop. 
P.S. Revenge is sweet. Lee. Observer centerfold? 
Your wives, Muhammed and Dynamite. Love to my friends in Student Hello , My name is Mary Ellen Chris P. and Chris G. Government and Studen t Mosier. Have a Happy NJAENANLNELDONO Union. Happy Valentine's Valentines Day. To my favorite chemistry If you can unscramble you Day. 
teacher: a very ideal and name, have a Happy Valentine "Senior Partner" Francois, sensous man! ! day. 
Larry Lujack. Cat,
Happy Valentines Day. ·Loving!~.
Love, Tae-Kwon-do. 
My darling,
Georgianna. JTP 
Dear Mag, August 13,1998?Yes, because To Ginger and Mitzie, Happy Valentines Day. I Jove we love. Time is not for those ND Sandwich Eaters How are your fingers? Hope to you. who love! Felice Giorno di San Valentino! 
D.B. Forever, 
6-banger,  
Happy Valentines Day.  You're  
really -itchin'!  
Love,  

see you Sat. We promise no Ciao for now mirrors. Your Latin lover.
Your babie-dolls. Observant,Singing Seniors. 
,Let me cary you away to P.B. Betsy N. 
True confessions in the night

Hattie(sigh! l. Lisbon. Together on the shady My tongue always muddles the
Bring many things to light

I .never met a Geo major before. side we can munch ice and lick words from my brain 
Hockey and B-ball help too

Lets shoot for 6 am next time. Iron resolve rusts at a rain of
parcel post labels. Remem­ber, the wire that brings us Shorty.
M.G. The rest is up to you. disdain 
Let not sweet hopes slip silent To Jack-the bearded wonder, together is un pensamlento away.
who brings  me  a  world  of  
happiness.  
Love,  
Lou.  

Golden Boy, Take your head out of the
Thanks for the great time. inteledual. HVD. Open your heart on Valentine's 
See you Sat. Fumbles" Day.
clouds and look around.
Women-hater. 
Someone's been watching you. 

Hawk, a close observer.
Gibbs: Whatever it takes, Men dont make passes at girls Belle Star, you've got it. Happy Valen­who wear glasses but Is It lrue Every Yellow duck should have 
Silver Servant: the power of

tines Day. Diana, Alice, Pam, that every man messes with a pillow oartner ·like scuber
love reaches across the oc€an. 

Mary, Jeanne. girls in sliort dresses? bear! I Will you be my
All my love and gratitiude

I,Me. Valentine? I wish that I were
forever.
Gotchi Streaker: here for a moment today. Je You're a bit green. Happy To Molly, the sweet heart of the Rebecca. t'alme! Valentines Day. Choir, Andrew.
Dear Phantom,Chiquita. We hope to meet again real The International swimming

soon! Carissina Margherta,
pool is getting smaller. Happy

Gr~: Love from Tanti auguri per questa testa
.Valentine's day.
You re a dining hall delight. Dave, Larry and Cra~g. egrazie per un iebbraio
Love,

Happy Valentine Day. merav iglioso.
your woman of the world.

968. H.P., when "dialing a number Tua amante, on your radio"thlnk of-"a child James
Frank and Lise,

Koser, laughing in the sun." 
Happy Valentines day from

Six months: MMT, Flynn's, Craig, Ryan, Kevin, and Jeff:
Notre Dame and Tony.

Bay Head, Gordon, wining and Hustler, Haven't been around for a long dining, Happiness, post 7-up For a non-wop, it was pretty time
Stay out of the rain sugar. 

Keep it up.  And dont let your  
meat loaf.  
Modad.  

ecstasy, letters· from far away. good spaghetti. Happy V Day. I But won't you be our valen­
Kathy B. from Rick D.

Bizarre, but...not denied! Let's owe you a drink. tines? keep the ball rollin'(sts.) -the Boss. Ya for sure!
Nancy KnightBuzz. 
A message from your main pip. 

Dear LJM-My "Tokyo Rose", Halloween Capital Folks:
Let's get it on.

"the $500 goose"-Happy Please bring my heart back to Happy V-Day. Easy Ed, Big
Rick D.

Valentine's Day. O.P. in June. I'll be waiting AI, Ann, Tom, John, Mary, Love, Bawmed and Bammed. when someday comes. Hooray Steve, Peg.
Brian Kelly

for US!! Happy Valentines 
Pat.
Hap~y Valentine's Day 0"the hick"-Happy Valentines Day!! 

Yea.!

Day. MRD.Your Kansas Sunflower. Snip,
Love,

Love, HappyValentine's Day
Sea Serpent.

City Slicker. Dear Boo-Boo, Love,You're the best picnic basket in Snot.
JD

CKM: all of Jellystone. Even Ranger Be my Valentine(for 10 or 12
Be my boram. Tom likes you. Have a Happy. Gunkey(oil)
hours)

Love, Killer. Love, Now and forever. You too?
Chicken Little.

P.S. you're dead. Yogi. Timmer 
Ferdie: I'm here. Love, Floyd. 
lots more on page 6 

Peg leg (that's you Mickie): Ski Swiss Valley for Valen­tine's Day??? 
Quiet One & Quieter Roomate: Ya'lls sweet. Happy Valen­tine's Day.
P.S. Happy Birthday, Carol. 
You set your TRAP and I gotcaught. Happy Valentines DayEdie. 
Dear Gribble-Grabble, 
A.M., I'm in like with all your component parts. 
-O.K. 

Dear Mary, Happy Valentines Day. Love, Steve. 
M. 0'0., 
A very happy Valentines Day Your Italian, J.O'B. 
NATALIE, I think so. Love Bill 
Therese B.--You're just divine Won't you be my Valentine? RAQ 
Janet, 
? 
Gus. 

PB Roses are red Holly is green You ignore me Why be so mean? 
Bea. 

Jean,Jean roses are red but 
also expensive. Will there be 
another time? 
Alan. 

MEM-My only regret is that we didn't meet sooner. 
Much love, Big Z. 
Wendy Wasp. 

To Gigi Happy Valentine Day to the one 
Carl, Dave, Denis, Gerry, Leight, Mort, Happy VD 
A Friend. 

Ollie, Not quite a front page splash but this should do. Happy VD. 
Love, Jenny. 

Cream Puff: Italian food is fattening, but gaining weight has been the best thing that's happened to me. 
Mr. Bitchen 

Fellow Perverts of Dillon: All you Derelicts are decent. 
~-------~~~------------~---·-------~---~-----------­
the' observer Thursday, February 14, 1914 
how fitting, mr. miller, that you're here 
Jason Miiier won a Pulitzer Prize for a play he wrote about a championship basketbaH tear". He intends to write a sc1 eenplay about a nun who leaves the convent. He a iso plans to r.1ake a film about a football gar.1e. 
M1. Miiler, you have come to the right place. 
An intense, l'nergetic Irishman with jet b·ack hair and a wry smile, Jason Miller is Yl'ry f.'uch in demand this week as a guest a1 1he Sophomore Literary Festival. A•together at lwr.1e here, Mille1· considers hif.'seif a w1·iter of the "Catholic ex­
perience." "After aii, he says, Portnoy's Complaint Pight just as well have been caiil'd 'O'Malley's Lament'." 
p; obabiy one of the best publicity agents 'he Jl'suit priests ever had, Mil.ler attributes r'uch of his interest in theatre to his Catholic education. "There is a great sense nf l'itual in the Catholic Church." he ex­piains, "a sense of good and evil, and Pythology." Rather than limit a student's scope, Miller feels Catholic schools are a broadening experience. There are '' aditions in Catholic schools such as ~>ratory contests, that serve to expand a student's horizons. 
Brought up in Scranton, Pa., Miller went fror.' St. Patrick's High School to the University of Sct·anton, a Jesuit college. He also attended Catholic University. 

It was a nun, of course,that first got him interested in drama. "In the ninth grade a nun put r.1e in a poetry contest. Next it was an oratorical contest, and on from there." 
"On fror.1 there" has included the Pulitzer Prize fo That Championship Season and r:'ay include an Academy Award for his role as Father Karras in The Exorcist. He has also recently finished a part in The Nickel Hidt>, due to be released soon. In it, he plays a !-'angster who 1·esists the attempts by new crir.1inals to take over his block. "Cooper is not a criminal," says Miller, "he has fights, he pays off cops, but he's really just a hustler.'' 

by kathy schwille 
Because he is a successful actor as well as eve,·ybody in the play. They never say, "he piaywl'ight ,Miiier is unique among his peers. added with a grin, "that they recognize "Everybody wants a specialist today," he themselves." 
"J can remember when those nuns used to fall to the floor and pray for a Notre Dame victory." 
says. "I prefer Pore of a Renaissance ap­proach. Shakespeare and people tike that were actors, wl"iters. Why not?" 
Perhaps because he is an actor, too, Miller adr-1its to writing his plays for actors. 
"The actor is the flesh and blood of the character. Afte1· five or six weeks of working with it, he should know r.wre about 
the character that I do. I'rn just there for inspiration." 
Ail of the characters in That Cham­pion!>hip Season are Catholic, a fact which Miller did not realize until he read the first draft. It is a story about four middle-aged Pen and their high school basketball coach who find the only way •hey can face tor.10rrow is by clinging to thevictoriesC~f the past. "It is an entertaining play," says M i Iier, "l'veryone says they know 
Miiier wrote the play while appearing in Tht-Odd Couple in Fort Worth. The ex­perience of losing aii 153 pages in a Texas field and finding everyone of them has !liven Miller a "special feeling" for the play. "I couldn't believe J:'Y iuck," he says, "and I still can't." 
The luck of the Ir·ish? 

Perhaps. Miller's f.'l'J:1oJ·i~s of Notre Dar.1e as a part of a "Catholic ex­perience"' go back a long time. "I can 'er.,er.,ber," he says," when those nuns used to fall to the floor and pray for a Notre Dar.'e victory." 
Notre Dar.1e has a crack at Jason Miller 
•his week. He is a Pan who understands Catholics, sports, and the psycheof the ex­athlete. Be at Washington Hall tonight at l'ight to hear hir.J put it all together in 'eadings fror-1 That Championship Season. 
... continued from page 5 
Senior Engineers,TO MY CHOOCOL ATE 
Last chance!! Be our valen.
COVERED PEANUT: i iove 

tines. 
you Marianne and Judi.

Baby cakes Dearest AmeliaTR 
Happy 'valentine's day You'reDont keep me sandwiched the greatest Blink, blink, bl; 1k. 
between your med notebooks!! Love, Porgy. 
Cathy , 

Tootsie,
Happy V,D. See you in Rome. 

Don't forget our date, valen­tine.
Ted Wand Love,
Happy Thanksgiving.Fulda 

Spanish-at -heart. 
you.{Brenda) Dear Jenny Be prepared for a big surprise Bunny 

on Valentines day.
Valentine's day is the excuse, Love,but you're the reason every day 
Your secret lover!!!

of the year. Jen, See note above regarding
Honey buns, big surprise! ! 

2 more weeks make it a year. 
V.S.L.
Let's keep the ball rolling and make it together, later and 

J.C.ll forever Happy Valentine's Day.
Smack, Love from Madam Sophie.

Daisy. CrankyMOAKIE 
Be my Valentine. 
' love you lots and lots. Jeffola.Grrrrrrrrrrr Love, 
RJPDL
Kassie Canada is cold but it still produces warm, lovable To the real one 

sweeties.
You always had the right CAR 
combination. Egg. 

Dear KAS at SMC You're the best.
Wildman: You can edit my Love,night anytime!! Just don't RPM at ND forget to wear that sexy white sweater. 
Omar,
Love and American fries, Happy Valentine's Day untilYour buddy without the red 

the 25th.
negligee. Judy. 
Sue 

Dear Kapu,Thanks for 4 who knows about My love for you is undying.
more? Will you be my However, due to an unfortunate valentine? 

defect, I am some what han­TC. 
dicapped in expressing it. Forgive me. 
Happy Valentine's day to all Ma~cel. my Stanford Sweethearts. Love, Molly. Sharon , 1 love you. It won't be lonQ.
Dear Bob, Butch. 
You have made me the hap­piest girl alive. Happy To Rotunda Blitzkrieg: MyValentine Day. heart is waiting , let's boogie
Much love, tonight.Maureen. Happy Valentine's day to the 
Dear Carrie great 8 Math and EE just naturally your ND buddies. belong together. 
Love To Len the Hen,Rich. You're the greatest 
ASPCD Billy Chuck me the long tater. king of Hearts 
Sandy. I'll keep you warmer than l!fil Memphis ever could. 

...and in my 19th year I found sweetness and happiness was mine. 

a Bear from Garfield. 
SMERB: 200 miles closer and a lot ~appier. Nur.yl 
E.T.B. Not for what you do, but for what you are. 

the ogre.  
Tommy, Do tigers some.  like  apples? Eat Mama  

To Art, Spring in Lorien has yet to come. 
Quantas Tell Flash the best race he won was on 9-3·72. 

Love, Quantas. 
To the greatest SA recep­tionist: Have a dandy day. The Wizard of Om. I 
Mmmmmmmm Buddies, I love ya all dearly but when does my status change? 
Love, Bosom Buddy. 
Dear Peanut(half-pint): I just cant live without your num-nums. 
Love always, Stinky. 
barbie 

i had a valentine two years _ ago. tor all the guys and~ girls who don't have valentines this year, happy .... 
Kathy. When can I thank you for stopping by? Happy Valen­tine's day. 
PJK. 
KAC HVD to the older woman . Thanks for being there when I needed you. 
WRL 
Dear Boop: Because you now love me, God's in his heavt!n and something is right with the world. I love you 
Chuckie 
I dream of Jeannie Happy Valentine's day. 635's Best Monopoly player 
Bear. 
Dear Ruffle butt, All my love on the first of many Valentine.s days together. 
Pulse-taker. 
Dear Robert, Happy Birthday from . Big AI and Terry. 
Denny and Beatrice: Guess who we are and we'll give you a kiss. 
Secret Admirers. 
Dear Maria, Even though you don.t like ITIY old sneakers, I will still be yourValentine. 
Love, RTW 
To the brown bullet: Thanks for comin' and remember that someday will come. I love you. 
TBW JC. 
Rick, Happy Vaentine's Springs coming Je t'aime. Linda 
To all SMC chickies: Have a Super Valentines Day ! This is no joke. 
Poody: If it wasn't for the Abominable Snowman, where would we be? Teddy Bear­here's to more years of love and Doug's . Happy V.D. 
Baby Doll 
Simeone, U R A Q-T. D-B 
Happy Valentine's Day to the World's greatest lover from the one who knows!! St. Pete. 
Jeanne, Let's go to Kubiak's (and other places) ALONE next time. Hope you understand this one. 
"heartless" B. 
Beth, I love you(how's that for originality?). 
John 
To the hot dog lady: Lover of the obvious and oblivious, my roof-top short .~ 
2-stop bopper. Valentine's day. Wthe next dance?  Happy aiting tor  
J.G.  


Lucinda You're a maid of steel for a man of steel. 
Love, Mike. 

From 127 to 123: Ploz, we think you're a real sweetie. 
The women. 

To our one and only "smak" Hawk, Wats, Kop and Ploz. 
Hey Toots. Only 99 days and nights , love you. Xathy. 
SUKARGET REPS: Poppin is the way to a happyValentines day. 
Ann Mariel. 

Caledonia, May God bless and protect you. 
Be my Valentine. Love, Mike 

Dear Ernie, May your pueple jock foreverstreak North Quad 
Lovies, Bert. 

Dear Laurie, Happy Valentine's Day the men in 151 Alumni. 
Happy Valentine's day to all the women who have made mylife a little bit nicer. 
P.O.F. 

GP FACULTY AND 
STUDENTS "Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow 
creeps in its petty pace from day to day... Happ~ Valentine's Day f,rom the Kings Trainees. 
Love on Valentine's Day to the Observer staff "Mom" 
Dear Ceil, Happy Valentine's Day to the observer's first lady. 
the Motley Crew. 

Thursday, February 14, 1974 the observer 
Truck driver injures nin:e strikers 
LANSING, Mich. <UPI>-A truck 
released. Fitzgerald was reported
driver drove his so-ton semitrailer 
in fai1· condition. 
into a group of about 60 picketing 
Two policemen received minor
tradesmen Tuesday, pinning some 
injuries but did not require
against cars and running over 
hospitalization.
others, police said. Nine men were rushed to "There were a whole lot of near hospitals and one, Jerry Heiden, r.1~~es," Lansing Police Capt.25, was reported in serious con­William Cavanaugh said. "Peopledition with undisclosed injuries. Of were diving over cars trying to get the others, all but one, Joseph out of the way of this thing."Fitzgerald, 62, were treated and The truck driver was taken into 



Dining hall workers to take tuberculosis tests 
by Mary Beth Mungovan testing which will take place in 
Staff Reporter both dining halls. 
Dining hall workers undergo TB 
testing every year at this time. 
Tube1-culosis testing for dining This year, approximately 200 will hall employees will start the week 
be tested. 
of February 25-29, announced Gary Marmontello stated that the Marmontello, manager of Em­Office of Er.1ployee Relations and ployee Relations and Training, Training will pay the cost of the Wednesday. first X-ray for any employee who St. Joseph County Health needs one. Department requires that all food "We feel we are providing a service employees be tested for service to the community,"TB. Testing consists of a scratch comr.,ented Marmontello, "and at test to be followed up by a chest X­the same time providing the best ray if the scratch test is positive. type of atmosphere for the Ruby Crocker, R.N. of the TB students from a health stand­Chest Clinic is in charge of the point:" 

Wallace ineligible for campaign funds 
Washington <UPI> -Alabama fered the Republican and Gov. George C. Wallace will not Der.wcratic candidates -an get federal financing if he seeks 
estimated $21 million each. the presidency in 1976 as an in­The only recourse to federal 
dependent or third party can­financing for r.1inor party, new didate, the government said 
party or individual multiparty Wednesday. 
candidates is if they amass more 
In a background summary of the than 5 percent in the 1976 election. new presidential Election Cam­They could then get a propor­paign Fund Act, the General Ac­tionate reimbursement after the counting Office GAO said federal election. 
said. from the angry crowd. He was not Cavanaugh said he saw the truck immediately identified and police run over the leg of one man and were unable to explain his actions. believed others also were run over. The tradesmen had been He said several parked cars were picketing the site for about two 
custody after police rescued him 
damaged. weeks in a dispute over the use of "I dove between two cars and up nonunion labor. Teamster truck on the curb and damn near got run drivers had refused to cross the over r.1yself," Cavanaugh said. "I picket lines. know there were people who wound The pickets went into the street up under the wheels." 
Tuesday to block four trucks Cavanaugh said the truck then delivering shipments of cement proceeded on into the construction piers for the job. Police intervened 
site. He said the driver jumped and began directing the trucks 
from the cab and ran to a derrick, with angry picketers at his heels.
thmugh. Three got through peacefully, 
The driver 1·emained on the hood officers said, although they were 
of the derrick until police broke through the crowd and took himjeered at. 
into custody, Cavanaugh said. He said the crowd had threatened the truck driver with "great bodily harm," but there were no further arrests. 
It was the second incident of picket line violence in Lansing in as r.1any days. Riot-geared police clubbed picketers outside the strikebound Motor Wheel Corp. Monday following complaints that nonunion workers were not being permitted to cross the picket line. 
However, police described the picketing outside the Long Developmen! Co. construction project, the site of Tuesday's violence, as orderly and within the law. 
financing of presidential cam­paigns will be limited in 1976 to the Democratic and Republican 
"American Character Series" 
candidates. 
The sumr.1ary pointed out that to become eligible for federal financing, a candidate has to get at 
Nancy Cole presents 
least 5 per cent of the total vote in the previous election. 
Waliace, who was shot in an assassination attempt after winning several Democratic 
Gertrude Stein primaries, was unable to run in the 1972 elections. 
His stand -in as the candidate of 
Sunday, February 17th 
the Ar.lerican Independent Party, former Rep. John G. Schmitz, R­

at 8:00 p.m.
Ca!., polled less than 1 per cent of the vote. No other third party or 
in the little Theatre (SMC)
independent candidate managed to pick off 5 per cent of the vote. Wallace would have qualified for 
Admission is $1.00
federal financing -should he make the run as an independent. if the 
Dance and Drama Patrons
1968 election figures were used. In that year, Wallace received 

.-Free

9.8 r.1illion votes, well above the 5 per cent cut off. He would have 
CULTURAL ART• CCIWWII••ICN 
been eligible for about one-third of 
1 

federal funding which will be of-..•••••••••••••••••••••.•.•.••••.•,•••• 
"The fourth one, for some reason, he veered to the right, accelerated and barrelled into the 


THE PING PONG 
r.,ass of picketers," Cavanaugh 

TOURNAMENT HAS 


SMC pool 
RESUMED. 
All those who signed-up in November,


opens today 
see the Bulletin Board in the LaFortune 
Poolroom for details.
by Leanne Jacques 
Staff Reporter 

The ceremonial opening of the St Mary'sswimming pool begins at 
2:00 p.m. today. The new swim­Ping facility has been closed since early October for roof con­struction. 
The pool will be open to Saint Mary's faculty, staff and students Monday through Friday from 9:30 
a.r.1. to 11:00 p.m. A lifeguard will be on duty from 4:00p.m. to 11:00 
p.r.1. during the week. Swimming is not allowed unless a lifeguard is on duty. 
Visitors and guests of the St. Mary's comr.lunity may swim during the following hours: Saturday and Sunday from 12:00 noon until8:00 p.m. Guest fees are $.50 per individual or $1.00 per far.1ily. 
The pool area may be reserved for private swimming parties on Wednesdays and Saturdays from 
8:00 p.m. to midnight. The presence of a lifeguard is required. 
Arrangements for private parties should be r.'ade with the lifeguard on duty, 48 hours in advance. Reservation fee is $25.00 plus the iifeguard fee. 
All swimr.lers r.mst enter pool area through dressing rooms in 132 Regina South. Regulations require a soap shower before entering the pool. Swimr.1ers must provide thei1· own towels -soap will be provided. All persons are required to wea1· swimming caps in the pool (including r.1en). The Swimming Pool Regulations will be posted in dressing rooms and pool area. 

.. 
Irish return home, 'sweet' home 
N.Y.), Bill Paterno (Lincroft, Fnrdham garne has turned into his 1973 squad. But despite the Darryl Brown, averaging 16.3 Digger Phelps and crew will be N.J.) , Ray Martin (Long Island one of the truly great rivalries on presence of seven experienced points and 10.6 rebounds per hoping that his old stomping City, N.Y.), Toby Knight (Port our schedule. I have a lot of t·eturnees and a host of talented outing. Joining Brown in the grounds prove a lot more Jefferson, N.Y.), and Billy D1·ew respect fm· their program and I rect·uits, the schedule has proved unenviable task of battling the hospitable this time around, <Centereach, N.Y.). Toss in the always enjoy playing them." no easier and the Rams are taller Irish on the boards will be 6-3 because, as the saying goes, fact that the festivities will be held cun-ently saddled with a Frank Heyward (10.5 ppg) and the1·e's supposed to be no place in familiar and often friendly It is doubtful, though, that discouraging 6-13 mark. Wissel pmmising freshman John O'Neill like home, whether its in South Madison Square Garden, the scene Fordham is especially relishing has juggled his lineup repeatedly (4.9 ppg), whose father may be the Bend m· New York. Gametime is 8 nf Notre Dame's spectacular the prospects of tackling the to find a solid combination and ten only Notre Dame graduate un­p.m. Notre Dame time, and can be showing in last year's NIT, and it rugged Irish, even with the alleged different players have seen decided about his loyalties in this heard over WNDU and WSBT all adds up to a 'home away-from­home court advantage. The Rams starting spots. game. radio. home' game for the Irish. have fallen on hard times since the 
Coach Phelps anticipates a departur·e of Phelps, who gained substantial cheering section for his national acclaim by transforming 


Gilloon: desire, hard work key success
team in the Garden tonight, as old a 16-15 squad into a third place 

f1·iends, former Domers, and the finisher in the NCAA East with a reflects. "They beat us last year,r.,ultitude of Subway Alumni never . 26-3 ledger in hisune year stint at by John Fineran case we didn't have a wrestler. We and they'll be favorites this week. 
never forfeited as long as we had afail to pack the stands to welcom e Fordham before moving onto Rich Gilloon, Notre Dame's Akron <Saturday at 1 p.m.) shouldback their favorites. greater challenges at Notre Dame. healthy body.

wrestling co-captain from also be tough after beating us last"I imagine we'll haveoneor two Dubuque, Iowa, has had many season. 
supporters in the Garden Thursday Coming off a 12-16 rebuilding "But last year, I finished 17-13-2 
DOaJTOW escapes on the wrestling "Still, you have to go into every 
night," laughs Phelps. "I think year against one of the nation's at 158. I worked as hard as ever. I
Pat during his Irish career. But Patch thinking you can win.
seve1·al of the players will have toughest schedules (including 12 guess if you stick with something
none probably can compare to the That's the way Coach Pechek
busloads of rooters coming in to tournament teams), Phelps' long enough, things come more 
one he had a few sur.lPers ago. thinks. He is really optimistic.
natUJ·al for you." 

There's not a team on our schedule "My brother, eight others and 
he thinks we cannot beat. Before r.'yself were camping on an island 
the toumey, he•houghtwe would be in the Mississippi," he says, "when 11-1, but we were 10-2, the losses 
.. 
a tornado passed through each being by a point. I think that Dubuque. We couldn't see very 
says something about his op­timism.
well, but rhestorm almost floated 




OBSERVER 
us away." 

" Coach Pechek believes in conditioning. We do a lot of live After an experience like that, wrestling, an it certainly has you would think other ones would helped us. And he is interested in
SPORTS 
come easy to this quiet, !58-building tne wrestling program 
pounder. But they haven't for here. That's why he is scheduling 
Gill oon has had to work hard for the best teams possible." 
his p1·esent status at Notre Darne. 
But Notre Dame hasn't been just one big wt·esUing mat for Gilloon. 
a fine leader," Coach 
· Fred Pechek says. "He's all for
IH tourney underway "Rich is 
"Notre Dame has l"ertainly been 
the team and he's an inspiration to 
tough academically," he says.by Sam Yannucci however, are still clinching to title it. "Still, I've enjoyed my major 
Coach Digger Phelps and his hopes. (history), the wrestling program Fighting Irish cagers start the Leading the second bracket is a "Rich may not have all the skills and the people I've met here." Post important leg in their quest pai1· of classy teams from Grace of an outstanding w1·estler, but he for a "dream" season in less than a Hall (II and V>. But they are being does have the desire. And, judging Rich Gilloon Unfortunately for Gilloon andrhe 
by rny past experiences, this type rest of the Irish grapplers, one ofr.1onth. This final leg is, of course, stiffly challenged by strong Because of his determination. those persons died tragically thisrhe prestigious and r.mch heralded Cavanaugh and Keenan squads. of individual is usually the one who ends up captain." Coach Terry Mather, who has sumr.,er. Pat O'Connor would have NCAA College Basketball Tour­The semifinals are to be held in the since entered private business, been a sophomore this year.
nar.lent. ACC on the 25th of February with Another cage tourney, though, the finals coming on Saturday, "I try to work hard as co-captain awarded Gilloon the team's Heart 
Award. Gilloon was pleased. "I found out about Pat's deathjust as important and prestigious February 28th. (along with AI Rocek)," Gilloon just before I came back in Sep­ro its participants, namely the Basketball may be big at ND but continues. "I try to set an "Although I think· there were tembet·," he recounts. "We'veNotre Dame Interhall Basketball so is hockey. Inter hall hockey, example; I feel I owe it to myself others who deserved it as much as dedicated our season to him. HisTournarnent, has already been in already several months old, is and the team. 
I did," he adds, "I am glad Coach picture is on the wall, and his dad progress for more than a week. winding up its regular season this Mather saw enough in me to give comes in from Oklahoma to seeThe fo1·mat of this year's weekend and then moving into a Working comes harder for some r.1e the award." some of our meets."
cor.1petition had been changed four team single elimination individuals than others, and 
slightly from past years. A twelve playoff. Gilloon's wrestling career The memory of. Pat O'Connor isAnd like the competitor he is,ream double elimination set up has The fifteen IH teams are divided illustrates this point very well. As etched in the minds of everyone ofRich is looking forward to this'eplaced the ~aditional top four do into two divisions (Quads),North he ('Xplains , "During my ·the Notre Dame wrestlers. Theweek's Irish opponents, Johnor die system. and South. Going into the last freshr.1an year, I didn't par­dedication of the season hasCarroll, and Akron, both in theOnly eight of the 52 teams which weekend of play, Stanford (11 pts.) ticipate. I wanted to adjust to the resulted in a 10-5 record, one winAthletic and Convocation Center'sbegan the seven game season are and Sorin (6 pts.) appear the likely school' shy of the school's best.
Auxiliary Gym. 

still alive. In the top bracket, last representatives from the North 
year's IH champion Holy Cross Quad while Off-Campus (6 pts.), "My sophomore year was tough. It could be more appropriate and always tough Off-Campus Morrissey (5 pts.), and Alumni (4 I was going down to the wrestling "John Carroll (Friday at 7:30 that this co-captain, Rich Gilloon, have separated themselves from pts) are battling for the South room every day doing what I could p.m.) beat us for the National be part of what could be Notre the pack. Pangb,..,.n I and II, Quad's two berths. to fill the gaps at 158, 167 and 177 in Catholic Tournament title," he Dame's greatest wrestling season. 



