--~-----------------~ 
On The Inside 
Bob Hope Show ••.p 3 Hearst Kidnapping ... p 7 



Tuesday, February 19, 1974 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Vol. VIII, No; 82 

Milk producers deny funding of CREEP 
SAN ANTONIO (UPI) -The general Panager of the Associated Milk Producers, Inc. AMPI, Monday denied knowing that any of its 1972 political contributions went -to the Committee toRe­Elect the President. 
Published reports over the weekend said $200,000 of the $425p25 AMPI contributed to Republican House and Senate committees wound up in President Nixon's campaign. 
Dr. George L. Mehren. the general r.1anager, said the 40,ooo-raember AMPI's political unit, the Conm1it-tee for Thorough Ap·icultural Political Action, TAPE, also gave $389,290 to the Democratic party's congressional campaign committees. 
"The comr.,ittee for TAPE and AMPI have no know~edge thai there was ever an 'understanding' that funds would be transferred to the Committee to Re-Elect the President from the two Republican {:Of.'Pittees," Mehren said. 
"We do not now have knowledge that such transfer r.,ay have occurred. If they did occur, transfers were in direct con­travention of the explicit terms of 1he letters transmitting the contributions." 
Earlier Mehren--a former assistant secretary of agriculture--was questioned by a Justice Department official about charges that in 1970, AMPI sought 1o r.'anipulate the Minnesota-Wisconsin price structure, cited as the "mover" of all milk prices in the United States. 
The government and several com­petitors have filed a complex antitrust suH against AMPI in the case. 
Questioned by John Danielson, a f.lef.lber of the Justice Department An­titrust Division at Chicago, Mehren denied knowledge of such moves. 
"Quite truly, I know of no efforts by anybody to r.1anipulate the M-W price series," he said. 
Danielson questioned Mehren about an AMPI "·hink tank" headed by David Parr, who was reported to have bragged: "We now have the r.1ajor chairmen of the powerful comr.1iHees ... who can stop anything in Congress and obtain most anything." 
Said Mehren, "That is most emminently ridiculous." 


The St. Louis Zips managed to salvage enough energy from their 'hard fought' victory over the 'ND Green Knights' in the first game of last night's doublehead!!r to perform a dazzling halftime show before the Irish varsity's defeat of Western Michigan. (Staff photo by Chris 
Smith.> 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
Faculty senate Pembers expressed differing views on the resolution proposing that -the President .,f the Unive1·sity no longer necessarily be a Holy Cross priest. Some favored it while others who disagreed thought it r.'ight be aimed at Fr. Burt­chaell. 
BUJ·tchaeU, when asked about this possibility simply said, "I can't imagine why anyone would want Ill do that." 
Dr. Paul Conway, Associate Professor of Finance, voted in favor of the resolution when it was passed 15-10 on Feb. 6. "I agree with Dr. Cushing who originally proposed it, that H would open up Pore possibilities in finding the best man. Of course a CSC Pighl very well be the best choice but we shouldn't automatically reject anyone else." 
Responding to the possibility that the proposal to rhe Board of Trustees Pight have been aimed at Burtchaell Conway said, "Burtchaell rnigbt have 
:lurtchaell refused to comment on the proposal. 



Faculty views differ about lay president 
Proposal ai1ned at Burtchaell ? 

Conway believes it wouhl open more possibilities for finding the best man. 
been an underlying factor in some people's r.1inds but he was not the r.1ain one." 
Dr. John Lyon gave three reasons for voting against the proposal. "I really suspect it was directed against the Provost since the same reasons for a change held fifty years ago as hold now, but no such proposal was r.1ade. I also think that one of the reasons 1hat Notre Dame retains its uniqueness is its close attachr.wnt to the Holy Cross order. Lastly, I doubt that lay people would be able to give lotal dedication to the University as Pen like Fr. Hesburgh do." 
·or. Jar.,es Ward, who was unable to be present at 1he Peeling when the proposal was voted on said 1hat it was "untimely and ill-advised." 
Dr. John Roos declined to comPent on, the resolution itself but said, "I hope that the r.1atter isn't decided on purely personal grounds or simple dislike of 1he Provost." Roos declined to say how he had voted. 
Burtchaell also refused to cor.Jr.,ent on ~l:t: proposal to the Trustees except to say that "I can'. ir.,agine why anyone would want to air.1 it at r.1e .. 
Arabs have 'good news,' sent through Kissinger 
by EDWARD SHIELDS 
WASHINGTON <UPil --Two Arab foreign r.,inisters have given "pmd news" on the Middle EasUo Secretary of State Henry A Kissinger --a Pessage from Arab heads of state to President Nixon-­and planned to repeat it to the President himself today. 
They refused to say whether it concerned a possible liHing of the oil er.,bargo, but Vice President Gerald R. Ford, after a luncheon with them, told newsmen in Chattanooga, Tenn., "We may -­and I emphasize r.1ay --be over the hump for the short haul" in the energy crisis. 
Foreign Ministers Ismail Fahmy of Egypt and Omar Sakkaf of Saudi Arabia spoke to reporters at the State Department after a one hour Peeling with Kissinger. "Everything is moving in the right direction," Fahmy said. 
Both are to meet President Nixon at 11 a.m. today at-the White House. 

Fahr.'y said the Pessage fror.1 leaders of Egypt, Syria, Saudi Arabia and Algeria, who Pet last week in Algiers, contained word of "a very positive decision" which he said he believed would be,"good news to the President." 
Fahr.1y refused to disclose details of the Pessage until he can deliver it personally to Nixon. 
Kissinger said his discussions 
Monday,  along  with  a  Sunday  
conference  with  Fahr.1y,  Sakkaf  
and  Syrian  diplomat  Sabah  

Kabani, dealt with r.1ilitary disengagement between Israel and Syria. 
"The r.'ajor problem now is to get these talks staJ·ted," Kissinger said after Monday's r.' idday conference. 
Fahmy said that "Syrian-Israeli disengagement and the oil question are not necessarily connected they way you think they are con­nected." 
.------------~----------~-~~-··~----~-----~-~­
Tuesday, February 19, 1974

}. the observer 
warld 

briefs 
ZURICH <UPil -Alexander I Solzhenitsyn Monday received a secret hand-carried r.1essage from his wife in Moscow, six days after the Nobel Prize-winning author was forcibly taken from his faPlily and exiled by Soviet authorities. . 
The 55-year-old Nobel prize winner told newsmen ~e dtd ~ot know when his wife and three sons would leave Russta, despite assurances by Soviet officials that they were free to leave. 
HUNTSVILLE, <UPI) -Sharing the platform with George 
c. Wallace President Nixon told an "Honor America" rally in the neart of the deep South Monday it was a relief to get away froP Washington where "you hear more than any place in the worid that Ar.,erica is sick." 
With three Southern governors at his side on the soil of his warPest constituents, Nixon told a friendly crowd of 20,000 that 1he spirit of self-reliance wil keep the nation great. 
WASHINGTON <UPI) Leading Democrats and Republicans 
predicted Monday a close Senate vote on the emergency energy 
bill President Nixon has sought since last fall to give him ex­
traordinary conservation powers, including authority to impose 
12asoline rationing.

"It's going to be a very close vote, a razor-thin edge. It could 
f'O either way," said Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash., chair­
Pan of the Senate Interior Committee and chief sponsor of the 
bill that now includes a proposed rollback in crude oil prices 
strongly opposed by the oil industry. 
NEW YORK <UPI) The historic criminal trial of two of 
Preisident Nixon's former cabinet officers,' John Mitchell 
and Maurice Stans, begins Tuesday with each defendant facing 
up to 50 years in jail if convicted of conspiracy, perjury and 
obstruction of justice charges. 

If found guilty they would be the first cabinet officers con­
victed since the 1922 Teapot Dome oilleasingscandal. Albert B. 
Faii, secretary of the interior in the Harding administration, 
was sentenced to one year in jail for accepting a bribe in that 
case. 

an campus taday 
12:00.5:00 p.m.-art exhibit, indiana printmakers show, moreau gallery 
12:00. 
9:00p.m. -art exhibit, paintings by suzanne golubski, upper moreau gallery 

12:00. 
9:00p.m. -art exhibit, paintings by harold zlsla, hammes gallery 


6:30p.m. -meeting, sailingclub, rm.204engineeringbldg. 
8:00 
p.m. -dance and drama series, marcel marceau, o'laughlin aud. 

8:00 
& 10:00 p.m.-cinema '74, five films by three great masters, 1.00, engineering aud. 


*LOUIE'S BAR* 
7 44 n. notre dame 
Invites you to take a break. 
Come down and enioy GREAT FOOD... WEEKENDS GREAT DRINK... TILL ? 
GREAT COMPANY I 


For Ford's old seat 
Demos upset GOP in Mich 
GRAND RAPIDS (UPI> -­Democratic underdog Richard 
Vander Veen scored a stunning upset Monday in the traditionally Republican congressional district of Vice President Gerald Ford, easily defeating his GOP opponent. VanderVeen, who had claimed the vote would be a "referendum" on 
p,·esident  Nixon's  policies,  im­ 
Pediately  called  for  the  
President's resignation.  

Indiana sets speed limit: 

55 m.p.h. 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

Maximum speed limits in In­diana will be reduced to 55 miles per hour, effective March 1, ac­cording to Indiana State Police 
notice yet, but our understanding * 
of the situation is that the new * speed limits will be in effect after ~ r;1 idnight, February 28," Copeland * 
sa~~wsigns.di~playingthe55n~ile ~ 
per hour lmnt are now bemg * posted, but the law will not be * enforced until the law officially ~ takes effect, Copeland stated. * Responding to a • question * 
regarding the degree to which the * new limits will be enforced, * Copeland explained, "The new law * will be enforced as all traffic laws ~ are enforced." ; The effect of the lower speed * 
iimit on the sale of gasoline on * Sundays has not yet been deter-* Pined, Cojteland said. * "It's all going to be up to the * individual dealers," Copeland : explained. "They've been closed * on Sundays in voluntary com-* pliance all along, and the final * decision to open or close is theirs, : not ours." * Several area service station * 
* 

The state GOP chairman said that Watergate "killed us." With 
all but two of the 273 precincts reptwting, Vander Veen had an unofficial total of 52,691 votes, while favored Republican can­didate Robert Vander Laan had 46,101. 
"People want a change," Vander Veen said. "It (the vote) is an expression of outrage." 
No Democrat since World War II had polled more than 40 per cent of the vote in this Western Michigan constituency that Vice President Ford held fm· 25 years. 
Vander Veen, 51, was defeated by Ford in 1958. The last Democratic victory came in 1910 and two yea1·s later, Republicans 1·egained control of th_e district. 
The special election was called afte1· Ford resigned in Decmber to 
succeed  SpiJ·o  T. Agnew,  who  
resigned under fire.  
Vander  Laan,  43, who  had  

contested and won 15 different political campaigns and served in 
the state senate since 1963, entered the race a heavy favorite. 
But he conceded in the cam­paign's final days that the com­bined effect of Watergate, in­flation, unemployment and the energy crisis had cut deeply into his support. 
Republicans had warned that if Vander.Laan failed to poll at least 55 per cent of the vote that it could signal deep political trouble for the 
GOP in elections later this year. 
State GOP Chairman William McLaughlin said the resuH peant"the voters are unhappy," and added: "Everything went our way except ... Watergate. And 1hat killed us." 
The 5th District race was the fiJ·st post-Watergate election in Michigan. Vander Laan generally 
avoided r.'entioning Watergate 
during his campaign and rarely 
invoked Nixon's name despite 
taunts by Vander Veen. 
Lieutenant Richard Copeland.

"We haven't received the official *************************************
*





CA R E E R ~ 
..­
* 

OPPORTUNITY ~ ~ 
*~ 
If you are within two and one half years of * receiving your baccalaureate or graduate * d t d ' N · ff · · * 
egree, o ay s avy IS o ermg a umque Two-* 
Year NROTC Program to those who qualify. * 
Here are some of the benefits: * 
*
* * $1 00 per mon f or ** : th 
1· · * 
1v1ng expenses. * 
*
* * A scholarship pro.viding full * : 
* 
tuition, books and fees to highly * 
* ~ 
qualified candidates. * *
operators contacted stated that 
they had no plan whatsoever to * * 
open their stations for the sale of * * * A commission and employment ~
*
gasoline on Sundays. ~ 
;: 
J:~,!~:r:~~~~:e':!!~s:':S.::: ~ 
vacations by the stuaents of the * University of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions * may be purchased for S8 per * semester ($14 per year) from The * Observer Box Q, Notre Dame * 
~~~;:;ea P!~~~ 6Notr:e~a",:!e,cl ~~~ :
1 

E h N 
as an ns1gn m t e avy or ~ Second Lieutenant in the Marine !
.,­
Corps following graduation. *
*
*
""­
For further information, contact the NAVY ....­ROTC on campus: Phone 283-7274 or 283-6442. ~ 
46556. 

***********************************: 

MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY 
**MEETING** 
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 20 7:30pm 
--For all students interested in collecting money in South Bend or on campus. 
AT KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
1---------------------------------l 

Tuesday, February 19, 1974 the observer 

The Library also 
Police respond to call at Louie's 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 

Several minor incidents marked the student bar scene this past weekend. 
At 1:45 a.m. Saturday morning police responded to a call by the proprietor of Louie's on Notre Dame Ave. "Someone was bashing in the back door," Louie explained. He feared a robbery, but when the police arrived the intruder had escaped. No police report was filed, according to the Dectective Bureay of the South Bend Police. 
The same night, an off-duty police offiCer who was in The Library, also located on Notre Dame Ave., called for assistance. Several units responded, but when they arrived at 1:30 a.m. there was no further need of their help. Police received another call at 1:45 
a.m. to report to The Library, but once again H turned out to be a "Code 1". The Detective Bureay explained a "Code 1" as indicating that nothing resulted in the police's presence. H merely indicates a "service call' where no action was taken and no police report filed. The Bureay keeps records of all calls on computor. 
When asked to comment on the incident, Rick Kanser, proprietor of The Library and a recent Notre Dame graduate, -replied "This is 
Notre Dame science fiction club publishes feature magazine 
by Denise Crowley Staff Reporter 

"Talos" is the new campus r.1agazine, or more appropriately, "fan-zine," sponsored by the science fiction club. The first 
issue,  featuring  J.R.R.  Tolkein,  
came out this wee k.  
The  idea  for  the  fanzine  

originated last semester when Jake Thomson, Ollie Hennigan and Jir.' Hanrahan posted flyers for any one interested in forming a science fiction club. The Ardent Lovers of Scientificition, TALOS, was created wi-th twenty active r.1embers. Their first goal was to put out a fanzine to create more interest in science fiction and to attract more members. 
According to sophomore Jeff Kapalka, editor of "Talos", it is "an outlet for creative energies of r.1embers and nonmembers." The Tolkein issue, dealing more wi-th fantasy than science fiction, was scheduled for release during Mardi Gras but financial problems held it up until now. Copies are being snld by the club members for twenty five cents each or by contacting Kapalka at 123 Howard, 7101. 
Floor seats sold out 
Gary Kinnaman, associate edition, planned for April, will editor of the magazine, said that concentrate on hard science fiction the "future of the magazine is in which is based on documented the balance according to its facts known today and projectedreception and profits." The next into the future. 


Hope show adds Prowse and Pride 
by Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Juliet Prowse and Charley Pride have been signed to perform in the Bob Hope show next Monday atthe ACC, it was announced Friday. Debbie Reynolds and Ara Par­seghianarethe other two scheduled· guests. 
Miss Prowse is a noted singer­dancer-actress who has co-starred in a number of films and headlined in Lake Tahoe, Reno, Las Vegas, New York and Chicago nightclubs. 
Erratum 

In yesterday's Observer article announcing the candidacy of Ed Rahill and Blake Wordal for SBP and SBVP an error appeared concerning a statement by Rahill and Wordal. The sentence beginning "They stress their campaign will not be a personal one ... " should have read, "They stress their campaign will be a personal one... " 
ACAPULCO SUNNY 85° 

She also had a short-lived TV series several years ago. 
Charley Pride, a country western singer of popular merit, will perform a few of his songs and r.1ost likely act in a few of the skits with Hope, Reynolds, and Par­seghian. 
The show will probably go for a r.1inimum of three hours said Joseph Sassano, assistant director of the ACC, and it will be taped for a future television special, probably in early March. 
Hope, as was reported last week, last appeared here in 1970 but it was incorrectly reported that Miss Reynolds had never been to Notre Dame. In 1955 she appeared with Eddie Fisher on ''The Coca Cola Hour" at the WNDU television station. This will be Pride and Prowse's first appearance at the ACC. 
Over-the-counter ticket sales began Monday as did those for the John Denver-Nitty Gritty Dirt Band Concert in two weeks. Floor seats for the Hope show are sold out. 

News Staff Meeting fonife Ill for all Observer news staff people (That means all you reporters, day editors, copy readers and interns.) Room 2-D Lafortune 7pm 

the first I've heard of H." He Pentioned that he was present on the premises Friday night, and that an off-duty policeman lives next iloor. 
It could not be determined ifthis was the same off-duty officer who was in the Library Friday night. Max Griffen, who was working at the Library Friday night as a bartender, could not be reached for comment. 
As a footnote to these incidents and to the false rumors of "raids', Louie complained that student "talk about raids hurts both the businesses and the individuals involved. Kids are just looking for excitement, but the community gets wind of the rumors and it_ hurts business." 
Tax class to be offered 
A video-tape of the Federal and 
Indiana income tax training 
session, conducted by Dr. Ken 
Milani, will be shown on campus 
Wednesday, February 20. The 
showing will start at 3:15 p.m. in 
Room 110 of the Law Building. 
The training session is highly 
recomr.1ended for all students who 
have volunteered to assist low­
income individuals through the 
Notre Dame Tax Assistance 
Program. This program is 
presently providing income tax 
service and counseling to low­
income individuals at several 
centers throughout South Bend. 
LOWEST JET FARES TO EUROPE 
of any scheduled airline from from 
NEW YORK CHICAGO 
1187 1229 
One way to luxembourg through May 31 
Effective for individuals on scheduled jets to Lux­embourg in the heart of Europe. SAVE $72 to $101 on overseas stays of over 45 days against lowest comparable fares cf an; other scheduled airline. 
SHOW INITIATIVE! 
SAVE MORE MONEY! 
Students can arrange their own Affinity Groups of 25 or more passengers and · qualify for Icelandic's low­est-cost one-way affinity fares. No other airline of­fers one-way affinity fares. SAVE via Icelandic no mat­ter when you leave or how long you stay. 
SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT. Prices subject to change. 
To: Icelandic Airlines 630 5th Ave .• N.Y., N.Y. 10020 (212) 757-8585 
Send folder CN on Lowest Youth Fares to Europe 0 
Name _______ 

ICELANDIC AIRLINES 

PUT YOUR SLIDES UP IN LIGHTS!! 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association wants your 35mm 
Kodachrome or Ektachrome slides for use in multi-media presentaions on campus and in Alumni Clubs around the country. We'll duplicate particularly appropriate slides from your collection and compensate you (modestly) for their use. We can use general campus scenes and seasonal shots, as well as slides of hall life, sports, other student ac­tivities, etc. Contact Mike Jordan in the Alumni Office at 7267. Or visit us in the Main Building (second floor, west wing). 

Train for the 
Navy's sky now. 
Ifyou qualify, you can sign up for Navy flight training while you're still in college and be assured of the program you want. 
Our AOC Program (if you want to be a Pilot) or our NFOC Program (if you want to be a Flight Officer) can get you into the Navy sky for an exciting, challenging career. 
For more de_tails, see the Navy Recruiter below. 
Be someone speciaL Ry Navy. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION see the NAVY information team on campus Feb. 18,19 and 20, or write Navy Aviation Programs, 536 S. Clark St., hicago, Ill. 60605. 

the observer Tuesday, February 19, 1974 
to improve Hie student life here, regardless of the sacrifices in either time or emotional comfort.
matt kubik Campaigning for office can be a spiritually exhausting experience. Any person running seriously should be listened to seriously. The time has passed for arguing about the structure of Student Governemnt. The "joke
If You're Running For SBP Don't Read This 
candidate," should be treated as a joke. The person who has a comprehensive concept of the problems and --or-potential of student life, and has the courage to actively 

carolina 
Requiem for a Brother 
I didn't know Greg very well. He was a year behind me in high school and I really never tried to strike up a friendship with him for two years. 
Then l1e became a brother ... 
It was a sunny April day and I was in the local cycle shop. In my eager hands was a check to pay for my new motorcycle. I needed rranspm·tation and a motorcycle seemed to be the best move. Unfm·tunately, I didn't have r.mch experience in riding -them but was confident that I could easily r.1aster the oversized bycycle. My con­fidence was quickly shattered when I tried to zoom off into the sunset and pror.1ptly stalled the r.1onster. At this point, Greg rambled over and slat·ted talking with r.1e. He had been riding for a while and knew pretty r.1uch about bikes. He gave me some basic tips on how io get f·'Y Poturcycle rolling and to keep it rolling (with me on top). The second attempt demonstra-ted how difficult it really was io stay on top. This time, he realized that I'd probably kill myself within 3 miles if he didn't come along. So off we went, the novice followed by -the old pro. 
The blur of the trees, the blue ofthe sky, the rush of the wind past'HE'S A HUNDRED PERCENT FIT-CALL MY BROKER AND TELL HIM TO SELLI' f·'Y helr.1et, and the power at r.1y control all added io the euphoria. I 
was addicted. Gred shared in r.1y new-found joy as we darted around the twisting North Carolina back-roads. Around the turns and up the hills, he stayed glued to my rear wheel. By the time we parted, I could safely r.1anuever my motcrcycle and at least had a fighting chance on the highway. 
We would run into each other in ihe halls at school and at the bike shop and invariably, the conversation would turn to our bikes. He introduced r.,e to other bikers (he called them "his brothers") and we would ride for r.1iles over roads that I never knew existed. I had found r.1y escape from the world. 
About a r.1onth after our initial ride, Greg was going down a dark country road and a man turned infi·ontof him. The poor bastard didn't have a chance. The man pleaded that he didn't see Greg and it really wasn't his fault but it really didn'-t matter -Greg was dead, his head sr.1ashed on the concrete. 
His "brothers" laid him into the ground, on the side of a small hill. People expected us to give up riding andcould not understand why we didn't. For us, Death is only three feet away but is it f!O much farther away for you others? Maybe it is that gamble for death that makes Life so interesting for us. Then again, isn't life just a gamble to begin 
L ·.~ with? It's been two years since Greg's death. His motorcycle has been ........ ·.. resuJTected as parts in 3 or 4 bikes. My little bike wore out and has been replaced by a large fire-breathing superbike. And occasionally, one can glimpse a solitary figure standing on top of -that hill, visiting 'I WAIN YOU, IICHAID -YOU'll TRYING MY PATIIN~II' the "pro" who gave him the greatest high of his life. 
What If They Gave a Revolution And Nobody Came? 
Matt Kubik, a five year veteran of the local political scene, is not currently a candidate for SBP 
Soon there will be an event at Notre Dame that has rhe possibility of removing us from our current cultural and social morass, or continuing the slow but constant disintegration of student rights at Notre Dame. In less than three weeks we will elect a new Smdent Body President. Those individuals who have contracted the February Fever have tremendous decisions to r.1ake before sacrificing themselves to the whir.,s of a fickle electorate. They must choose bet­ween continuing the unfortunate policies of the last three student administrations, or offering fresh ideas •o heip our university fulfill it.s incredible potent_ial. 
This is the most important student election of the last five years. For r.1ost students this statement may be hard to cor.1prehend. Seventy-five percent of us have never experienced anything other than the laissez-faire attitudes of the last -three student administrations. For rhis reason i:t is necessary to gain a historical per­spective of student government over the last few years. 
In 1968, Richard Rossi brought Student Power to Notre Dar.,e. H was under his governance that a f.lyriad of advances occured, greatest of which was the formation of the SLC, the only University policy for­r.,ing body on which students have equal represen­tation. His was a policy of confrontation, but Chuck Nau, his SBVP, has stated that there were more changes at Notre Dame under Rossi than during the previous ten years. The next year under Phil McKenna parietal hours were finally obtained through the same tactics. In the spring of 1970, the word STRIKE sprang from the mouth of Dave Krashna as students across rhe country demonstrated against the invasion of Cambodia by Ar.,erican troops. Before leaving office Krashna and SBVP Mark Winings challenged the parietal regulations by publicly announcing their plans to entertain a female student in their dormitory room for an entire night. Nothing happened. 
The turning point came at ihe next election. John 
Barkett took office by winning the closest election in 
Notre Dame history. Barkett's philosophy was one of 
appeasement and the result was the beginning of the 
stagnation of the past three years. Bob Kerstens' 
election was a reaction to Barkett's year of service and 
the type of student who held an office merely for the 
e!!,o satisfaction of holding a title. But once elected 
Ket·sten refused to serve and handed his office over to 
current SBP Dennis Etienne. 
S•udent Government turned its attention to internal 
. e-organization. Few of us involved in last year's 
campaign realized that the major issue would finally become the internal structure of Student Government. The result was that for several months we lost sight of our goals while struggling io preserve a student government constitution that gave the students the ~realest possible bargaining position within the University structure: the student representatives to the SLC as the legislative branch of Student Govern­Pent. Meanwhile the University Adminsistration was also reorgainizing and preparing for the rewriting of 
the Student Manual and a hard nosed enforcement of University regualtions. Last May, Dennis Etienne was elected SBP. His greatest failings have been a poor understanding of student rights, and allowing personal relationships wi:th administrators to interfere with his duty to protect the rights of all students 
The greatest enroachment on student rights during my five years at Notre Dame occured last fall. The judicial proceedings outlined in the Student Manual were changed by the administration, unprotested by student members of the SLC. Previously the University had to accept the final decision of the Judicial Board. Now the University Administration can appeal any decision to itself, moving up the ad­ministrative hierarchy until it receives the jdicial decision it prefers. The first use of this tactic was during the scandalous Dillon Hall Parietals Case. 
The effect of the last three student governments can probably best be felt by the average student in the areas of cultural and social activities. Once there was a coffee-house in Flanner, Holy Cross, Breen-Phillips, and even Stanford Hall, all providing a casual at­r.,osphere where individuals could gather and meet, while also promoting campus r.msical talent. There was a Tea-house in the Old Fieldhouse and also a room where campus poets gathered every Sunday for readings of their recent literary efforts. Every Wednesday there was some type of event in ihe LaFot·tune Ballroom called "Over the Hill," nights. There were frequent small concerts in Stepan Center or Washington Hall. All of this besides the traditional large concerts and organized weekends. Now that co­education has come to Notre Dame, (or hasn't come depending on your point of view), where are these activities which could possibly foster the development of healthy human relationships? It is time for a cultural -social reawakening ai Notre Dame. The turning point r.1ust come now. 
There are several reasons why one might run for 
SBP. The only good reason is because one trllly desires defend the rights of Notre Dame students and promote a student cultural emergence should be the person elected as the next Student Body President. 
The probler.1s facing the Student Body of Notre Dame cannot be looked at separately. Each one af­fects another aspect of student life. The Student Body President is the one spokesman to the University for the Student Body. Any Student-Administration relationship l'o'USI be characterized by mutual respect for basic human rights. No SBP should quietly acquiesce to flagrant violations of student rights as we have seen during the past year. Action must begin now on a new Judicial Code. Until that time we need judicial advisors to counsel students involved in judicial proceedings. The students must be educated so that they know their options. We need a guarantee of judicial procedural protection for all students. An end r.1ust come to the reign of terror of the past year. 
The Student Government must work closely with the Hall Presidents Council and the Student Union in order to promote those types of activities and spaces where students can Peel one another. Then we r.1ight -truly bring co-education to Notre Dame while providing showcases for those who have talent. The Renovation of LaFm·tune Student Center must begin soon. 
Unless we are contemplating a complete change of lifestyle at Notre Dame creative ideas must be utilized to help Pake the off-campus student feel that he is still pat·t of the community. Perhaps those expatriated students could be offered honorary membership in their old halls and included in all activities. Then social interaction could occur, providing a cohesivness roan increasingly divided communtity. We might also realize that ND and SMC still have much to offer each other both culturally and socially. An attemp-t must be Pade to draw our respective student bodies closer together. 
Last spring at a r.,eeting of student leaders from the State of Indiana, it was r.1ade clear that other schools were looking to IU and Notre Dame for direction. We r.1ust provide that direction and effect a new age of exciting social and cultural lifestyles where we can iearn ru think, and grow as true Christian brothers and sisters. 
I, and those like r.'e, have been called r.1alfunctioning l'ogs within the Notre Dame r.1achine. But we are not pat·t of any r.1achine; we are individuals. As in­dividuals we Pust develop the ability to analyze situations and r.'ake value judgments about them. We Pust not allow others to define the limits of our tifestyle if we feel that we are right. The time has cor.1e 1u rake hold of our lives and direct them in our own individual directions. A new cultural awakening can eor.>e lo Nntre DaPe. The decision Pust be r.1ade soon. 

A Different Dpinian Abortion: Justifiable? 
byran kin'd 
Inview of the considerable amount of strange entity referred to as the ,-,soul", publicity which the abortion controversy Pus! be present for full humanity-----real has recently been receiving, I feel-that now hur.1anity-----to be there. This sounds is an appropriate time to voice what I somewhat reasonable, but consider the believe to be some common-sense remarks case in which a person is involved in an on the subject. The view I will take migh-t automobile accident which results in be called conservative, and for reasons of his going into a con1a. Is this person to be this admission alone some of my readers considered no longer human'? Or consider r.1ight not even finish reading this the case in which a child is born severely paragraph. This is unfoMunate, because I retarded. Is this child to be considered believe that what I have to say on the less hur.1an then a person who is born with subject is quite down..fo-eaMh, and free normal reasoning capacity'? Most people frnrn the rash assump-tions which have would agree that in both cases the subjects caused the subject of aboMion to become are fully hurnan. But if we use the soul to so controversial. judge whether or not an individual is Realizing the touchiness of the subject human, then the retarded child is by r.,atter, I welcome any constructive definition less then human, just as the criticism which rnight increase my insigh-t individual in the coma is by definition and that of all concerned for in this case inhuman. FuMhermore, a newborn infant there is no better rnethod for arriving at has not the things which constitute soul, the truth than through carefulcon­and I ar., sure everyone would agree that sideration of the views of the r.1any. newborn infants are human. So it seems 
we Pus! scrap the idea of soul as aPotential Life? 
criterion for determining humanity. Let us begin with what I feel is the most 
The Woman's Right should not be abm·ted."This, in my mind,cof.'f.'on area of disagreer.1ent on the 
subject--namely, the question of the would be a case for justifiable aboMion.
But the question of abortion does not 
There are r.1any people who would argue hur.1anity of the fetus. This seems to be the 
revolve totally around the disagreement
key issue in the aboMion controversy, for if 1hat abortion followingimpregnation
concerning the unborn individual's 
we could con1e to universal agreement on resulting from rape is justifiable. This
hur.1anity. Sor.1e people believe that there
this point, then we would have a criterion arguur.,ent states that the woman should 
are cases in which aboMion is justifiable,
by which we could judge the justifiability not be forced to carry and bear a child that 
even if the fetusisa human being. Not the 
of abm·tion in all cases. In this matter she did not willfully take paM in creating.
least outstanding of the arguments of this
there are two opposing sides, one of which Fm·therr.1ore, they would point out that the
nature is the one which holds that a woman
believes that the human fetus, from the child would be fatherless, and use this as
has the right to determine what is to take
Por.,enl of conception <I suppose it should fUJ'Iher justification for abortion in this
place in her body, and that in the event of
be called a "zygote" at such an early type of situation. My reply to this 
pregnancy, it is the woman's right to 
stage, but for our purposed we will herein argur.1ent would be thus: "It is extremely 
decide whether or not she wants to give 
unfortunate that such a state of affairsrefer to the unbom individual after con­
bir·th to the child, and if not, to abort it. 
ception as a fetus ), is every bi:t as human often befalls won1en, but the result of
Now in response to this argument I would 
as you and I, and the other side believing pregnancy due to rape is a new human
ask, "If a r.1other were to decide that she no
that the fetus is nothing rnore than un­being, and it is up to one to decide
longer wants to keep her two-year-old
conscious Patter, and that is is merely whether or not this innocent and helpless
child, has she the righ-t to take i:ts life'?" I 
potential life, and not human life per se. I person should be denied the righ-t to life.
would expect a universal response in the
will agree that it might be very difficult for Ahuman life is a big price to pay simply to 
negative. Why then, should such a right be 
one to reconcile the idea of a tiny dot-that is save the inconvenience and em­
f,'iven to the woman who is pregnant'? I 
no larger than the tip of a fine-point pen, ba rrassr.,ent of nine f.H>nthsof pregnancy.
contend that after the precise instant at 
and 1he notion of humanity. But if one sits which conception occurs, the choice Personal Reflections down and tries to decide at just what point 
concerning whether OJ' not the fetus should 
after conception a fetus becomes a human To the idea that the offspring of such a
be perr.1Hted to live is completely out of
being, he will find himself attemp-ting to union would grow up fatherless, and
the hands of everyone <except in some 
choose arbitrarily a criterion for deciding possibly f.lolherless too, if it were placed
extrer.1e cases about which I will speak in 
1he essence of humanity. My contention is in aninstitution, I clair.1 that there is no
the second half of this essay)).
that to try to decide just what-this criterion reason to believe that this state of affairs 
is forces one to accep-t the notion that the The Mother's Life f.'USI be a detrimental element in the 
Por.,ent of conception r.1arks the com­formation of the child's character, or tha-t 
Pencer.,ent of another human life. For Now 1here are still others who would rhe child f.' US! lead an unhappy life due to 
how can one justify the criterion he argue that abortion is just.ifiable the case his parents' absence. I myself, grew up 
eventually does choose'? I feel that the involving the fetus' threatening the life or fatherless, and for seven years (from age 
only dependable criterion to use is the ).'eneral well-being ofthe mother. "Why", 10 to 17) I iived in a child care institution 
Por.1ent of conception. they would ask, "should the mother en­away from r.1y mother. Although I did not 
danger her life, OJ' in some cases, ceMainly spend my fm·mative years in the in­The Soul lose it, just to save the life of the fetus'?" stitution, I lived alongside many who did, 
But there are those who st.ill argue At this point, it would seem to me a matter and I detected no lack of happiness or otherwise, and not without the capacity to of choice--either the child or the mother. defect of character in them. So for these throw sor.1e doubt in the matter. They So I would answer thus: "There is no reasons, I hold that aboMion in the case of clair.1 that humanity is not strictly a reason why the life of the mother should be pregnance due to rape is not justifiable biological issue. They contend that con­deer.1ed r.,ore ir.1poMant then the life ofthe <unless, of course, "the psychological sciousness, the ability to reason, and in­fetus, but, since one or the other must effect upon the woman after giving biMh to tuition, which together make up that perish, I can see no reason why the fetus the child would be so adverse that it would 

"Any union, either natural or artificial, of human sperm and human egg, constitutes a new member of the human race." 


--~-~··--­
produce a lasting, serious, neurosis)." 
Question of Handicaps 
There are still cases I would like to Pention in which justification of aboMion would be a controversial r.1atter. One of rhese is the situation in which a deformed child will ceJ·tainly be born if aboMion is not perforn1ed. This has to be one of the Post difficult situations for one to r.1ake a judger.1ent on the r.wrality or immorality of abtw!ion. AI just what point do we conclude that a deformed fetus would not find r.1eaning and happiness in life because of its pa1·ticular handicap(s)? I conclude rhal if a fetus' deformity (or deformities) issuchthat there is doubt as to whether or not its being bom would be of r.1ore harm rhen benefit to it, then aboMion is not justifiable. Only when there is absolute certainty (if, indeed, there is such a thing as certainty in a case like this) that an rndividual will not function as a happy person who finds r.1eaning and satisfaction in his life can abm'lion be justified. 
lltilitarian Approach 
The final case I would like to consider is one in which it is thought that permitting rhe fetus to be born would bring about f.'ore harr:1ful results than good. Some people would criticize a utilitarian ap­proach, but consider the following situation: Suppose a f.'aJTied couple in rheir f.lid-fm·ties find out that the wife is pregnant. Assume fuM her that they already have, say, four children, the youngest of which is sixteen yeats old. Now, if they do not want to endure all the rrials and pressures of raising another child, can they justify aboMing it? Sup­pose they are poor, and they are having a hard enough tin1e just taking care of the four children they already have. Can they justly abort it? "No!", would be f.'Y an­swer. My belief is that they have alter­natives to abm'lion. They can put the chid up for adoption. They can place the child in an institution, which, as I pointed out earlier, need not be the traun,atic ex­perience that sor.1e people 1hink it is. To destroy the fetus in this case would be cor.,pletely unnecessary. 
Abortion and 1\lurder 
I have tried to reasonably come to sor.1e conclusions conerning the justifiability of abtwlion in various cases. In those situations where I have asseMed that abor·tion cannot be justified, I hold it to be rhc logical equivalent of murder. There are sor.,e, indeed r.1any, who will disagree, but as far as I am concerned, any union, either natural or artificial , · of human sperm and human egg, constitutes a new f.lenber of the human race, regardless ofhow sr.1all, .unaware, or inhuman in appearance it might be; and the act of destroying such an individual, except in the r.10st extreme cases where there is no adequate alternative amounts to nothing shtwt of murder. 

Tuesday, February 19, 1974
the observer 
The devi I made him do it 
Sirs, 
Mter reading your absurd and shallow reactions to "The Exor­cist," it is plain to see why Art Ferranti holds his well-placed position on The Observer. He was 1he only one who knew what he was talking about. Nexttime, give him the whole page. Such a movie offers rnuch for thought, you ar­ticle was one "hell" of a mess! 
Mephistopheles 
Beelzebub 
Pazuzu 
Lucifer 
Legion 
Of, by, and for the women 
Dear Editor: 
Mter reading the editorial of February 12 regarding female housing, I find it necessary to supply certain facts which have not been reported, facts which are essential to a full understanding of the housing decision. This was not an administrative decision reached without any student input. A Housing Committee, comprised of Sister John Miriam, the hall rectors, and two girls from each hall met several times this year to decide upon recommendations to Father Mulcahy, who had the final say in the rnatter. The girls were volunteers from within the halls, and student input was the primary concem. The Committee decided to seek the opinions of the girls themselves, and formulated a questionnaire which every girl received. This questionnaire asked the girls if they were planning to return to Notre Dame, and asked for a preference of on or off-campus living. It also asked which dorm the girls wished to live in next year, and if the quads had any importance in the decision. The answers were not binding, but Perely indicators for the Com­Pittee. 669 questionnaires were sent out, and 623 were returned. No further r.1eetings were held until the responses could be tabulated. 
The results were rather sur­prising. Contrary to expectation, the giJ·ls are voluntarily heading to a stay hall system. Almost all of Walsh Hall indicated a desire to rer.1ain, and more than 50 per cent of every other hall expressed the sar.1e intent. The Committee did not seek to establish -the same proportion of classes in each hall, and the only equal proportion will 
the observer 
Night Editor: J. R. Baker Ass't Night Editor: Tim O'Reilly, Bill Murphy Layout: Clyde Iverson, Mark Frazel, Gary Allietta, Dean Janke, Ginny Faust, Art Ferranti Copy Editor: Marlene Zfoza Day Editors: Gary Allietta, Jim Rosini Typists: Barb Norcross, Camille A rieh, Claire Kelly, Jeff McPherson, Tom Mogdlin 
Compugraphic:  Joe Abell  
S: orts:  Greg  Corgan,  Peggy  
I  wlor  

ti ~ht Controller: John Flannigan J-: :tures: Albert D' Anfonfo Folitical Editor: Butch Ward 

be with 38 per cent freshmen in every hall. The questionnaire dearly indicated that far more girls would be upset with a five hall lottery system than with the one we have chosen. Not all will ever be pleased with any recom­Pendation r.1ade, but this one pleased an overwhelming majority of girls. This was quite obviously a decision r.1ade by and for the women of Notre Dame. 
Marina McGuire '75 Badin Representative on Housing Committee 
Timely Toohey 
Dear Editor : 

Fr. Toohey's timely colunm on Love and Friendship was -the most needed appeal to the "family" of Notre Dame that I have read. Perhaps it could be reprinted annually-Fall or Feb. 14th?-to bring about a realization of this sad lack of a show of LOVE that I have 
noticed  worsening  in the  last  
twelve years.  
How  abou-t a "HELLO  

DAY" ... any suggestions??? 

"Mrs. Valentine" 
From the Bastille 
Dear Editor: 

There comes a time in every Pan's life when provocation by the over-lords can no longer be tolerated. When the taunting and restrictions of tyranny must be shed. The time is now. The in­solent ears of the administration Pust be made to listen. Their eyes Pust be made to see, that the laws and edicts were never agreed upon. We r.mst show I hem that the consequences of such a rash action against our wills shall not be silent acceptance, but bold revolution! 
We r.'ust throw down -the Lords that overpower our freedom like r.'idevil kings. Rize up! Fellow Students! Come forth from the dreary catacombs you call home and descend in light upon your foes. Let not apathy quicken your blood, but let it be stirred with the ideals so often said only in ~rur.1bles. Leave the sour ex­pression of surrender in your rooms and gather under the flag of Victory! The time has come! 
Yours in Revolution, (name withheld by request) 
loser logos 

Dea1 -litor: The Chicago Fire.. .in­spirational! At least, it inspired a 
fascination new pastime for Pembers of Section One-West, Keenan Hall, Notre Dame. Take notes, officials of the infant World Football League, because we think we've discovered a wealth of in­teresting pos!?ibilities for your future expansion teams. 
It all began last Saturday. Jim laid down our copy of the Chicago Tribune and declared, "The Chicago Fil·e ... nextthing you know they'll have the Boston Massacre!" Someone else ex­claimed "Why not?" and, that sirnply, the game of "Name the WFL Expanion Teams" was born. 
The San Francisco Earthquake, the Louisiana Purchase, ·the Paris Peace Talks-the names fired back and forth furiously as amateur historians grasped at every catchy title they could recall. The names began to come easily, and likely headlines soon followed. Imagine these words atop future Monday spm·ts pages: "Idaho Potatoes Get Whipped"; "Kentucky Bourbon Get Sr.,ashed"; "Philadelphia Cream Cheese Curdled by 'Kraft­y' Opponent''; ''Pit-tsburgh Polluters Came out Smokin"; "Missouri Compromise Settles for Tie." 
Finding nicknames for ci-ties 
proved toughest of all. Sure, you 
cou.ld have your Louisville 
Siuggers and the Santa Fe 
Railroad, but who in the state of 
New Hampshire would pay to see 
the Concord Grapes get stomped 
on by the Buffalo Stampede? But 
on the other hand, we found one 
Indiana franchise irrestable-The 
Gary Coopers. (Yup!) 
Now, if the WFL really wanted to iive up to its name, several foreign entries come into the picture. Wouldn't you love to see the Roman Candles extinguished by the London Fog? Or the Plasters of Paris p.lagued each season by the German Measles? 
Moving to the Middle East, how about a match-up between -the Cedars of Lebanon and the Cairo Glyphics? 
And why not. a team of island­born r.'idgets called the Bermuda Shm·ts? 
The list is endless. 
Sor.1e names, we must admit, could cause considerable em­bal'l'assment. For instance, if you were a champion athlete, wouldn't . you be a bi-t ashamed to tell your friends you'd been scouted by the Peking Toms? 
Bob Quakenbush Jim Gallagher John Federer Kevin Deighan Mark Gibson Shawn Murphy Doug Grassi 


220 W. Marion . Elkhart 
Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 
• 
:s .. 
-a 
:I 
..,... ...>­
..... 
as 
INII RJR/1/IL.. COI1Pt.AINT 

1lJPAY 7}(ERE/IKR£ THE t.tXJ6E/JtmHTHG ffE.{)., FIRSTRUERCIJSSKJV5 70 7JIREEMllt!OR at @11­ENER6YC/11/ir UI.E. "BIU" f?!/NIES CLAIME/J 711/IT 
SIMONS RECENT PE­MANY OF 7HEIR. CIS!ON 70 CAU RETAILERS WERE OFF 7HcENERGY TAKING THe CRISIS CRISIS. CGSSAT/ON 7lJO se-Rta5t.Y.
/ 
/ 


Hairstyling ... with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 
KEN'S DEN 
First Floor, 100 Center 
Mishawaka, Indiana 
Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 
'learafter year, semester Iaftcrscmcstcr, the CollegeMaster' from Fidelity Union Life has ht-cn the most acccptL'd
T11m McMahon 
General ~gent 
most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegcMaster·· Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend , Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
• 

.'~, .. :"':~ 
-,·
\'& 
:.\ ­
r 

COllegeMaster'
Carlton Higgenbotham 


Tuesday, February 19, 1974 the observer 
7 

Elliot Richardson 
'Impeachment process should go forward' 
ST. LOUIS <UPD .Former  At-torney  hesitating  is  he  was  running  evidence shows that the grounds  at{orney general post rather than  
General Elliot L. Richardson said  against McGovern. But I guess I'd  for impeachmen-t are sufficient,"  follow Nixon's orders to fire -then  
Monday if he knew in 1972 what he  have  to  say  no."  Speaking  at  he said.  special  Wa-tergate  prosecutor  
knows  now  about  Watergate, he  Washington University,  Richard­ "The public interest would not be  Archibald Cox, said Nixon should  
would  not  have  supported  son  said while the impeachment  better served if Nixon resigned."  do r.10re than "ride out" his term  
President  Nixon's  bid  for  re­ process "should go forward,"  he  Richardson said. "Resigna-tion  in office by working to restore the  
election.  was  not  yet willing to  "r.1ake  a  would leave  too  much  room  for  lost  confidence  in  the  American  
Asked if he would support Nixon,  definite  judgment"  on  whether  doubt  and  recrimination.  The  presidency.  
Richardson  paused,  then  an­ Nixon should be impeached.  impeachment process is bet-ter."  "Given  the  severe  erosion  of  
swered :  "The  only  reason  I'm  "l'r.1 waiting to see whether the  Richardson,  who  resigned  the  confidence  in  the  presidency,  

Hearst starts to implement SLA demands 
Nixon should work to restore 
confidence in -the office " 
Richardson said. ' 
But, Richardson added he had "just about given up hqpe" that Nixon would do more -than"get by" during the rest of his term in office. 
"Even now Nixon could provide the needed leadership, but it would require a change of attitude. I · don't think it's likely," he said. 
Richardson said i-t "would be in the President's best interest to 
SAN FRANCISCO <UPI) Publisher Randolph A. Hearst announced Monday that arrangernents have been r.1ade for distribution of $2 r.1illion worth of food for the poor and the needy. The announcement was an effort to obtain freedom of his kidnaped daughter, Patricia. 
Before a r.1ass of TV cameras and repm·ters, Hearst said, almost too softly to be heard, $500,000 of the $2 r.1illion would come from his own personal funds. He said $1.5 Pillion would cor.1e from the Hearst Foundation. 
The Sym bionese Liberation Arr·'Y, which clair.'s to hold the t-:irl, had demanded that r.1assive food program, costing perhaps $400 Pillion, begin no later than Tuesday as a "gesture of good 
faith" in negotiations for Patricia's libe1·ty. 
Hearst had responded that this demand was impossible to r.1eet but that he would do -the best he could. 
Hearst r.1ade his announcement after five hours of r.1eetings in a downtown San Francisco hot.el, r.1ainly with leaders of the APerican Indian Movement, one of a dozen activist groups which 1he SLA had said should supervise a food ~iveaway program. 
To fUJ•ther demonstrate good faith, the publisher announced that Williar.1 K. Coblentz, a distinguished San Francisco iawyer, would act as the Hearst· far.,ily's representative to assure that Joseph Remiro and Russell Little, two SLA r.1er.1bers now in custody on r.1urder charges, receive a fair trial. 
Hearst gave no details of the food pl'llgrar.', and said they could be worked out by a charHable organization approved by the state attorney generaL The r.10ney wm be available Tuesday, Hearst said, but he added that it would take rir.1e to work out details of the piveaway plan. 
"This is a pesture of good will," Hearst said. "It's an honest effort on r.1y part. It's up to them, the SLA, to believe Pe and hopefully Pake a gesture of their own." 
Heat·st was accor.1panied at the news conference by Coblentz, a f.ler.,ber of the Universi-ty of California Board of Regents, and by Jay Boswm·th, Hearst's son-in­taw. 
He said the Ar.,erican Indian Mover.,ent has been "very help­ful" and that he found AIM leader Dennis Banks "an interesting r.1an and a decent r.1an." 
InPIRG beginspetitiondrive 
by Jackie Simmons Staff Reporter 
This week InPIRG will start its petitiomng drive to get a $3.00 voluntary fee assessed to each student at the beginning of next year to fund the Notre Dame PIRG Povement. In order for students to have a complete understanding of what Ihe petition will do, student organizers are working to present and define InPIRG's goals. 
Nutre Dar.1e's PIRG leader, Ken Hughes, hopes to make the student budy Pore aware of PIRG by set.ting up information tables at -the dining halls and in the library all this week. 
In sur.lf.larizing the background of PIRGs across the country, Hughes said, "Basically the purpose of a public interest group is to create a viable and ongoing public balance to the private in­terests, the latter which too often hold sway in our country. What this involves, when such a group is totally "arr.1ed and operated" by students, is a full utilization of the P ult i-faceted and diverse resources of the university can offer to the citizen public." 
Ail too often a person despairs when he has a grievance because he has neither the time, talent , f.loney or inclination to fight for what is just, Hughes further ex­plained. By combining the con­structive effor-ts of concerned Notre Dar.1e and St. Mary's students, InPIRG will attemp-t to resolve grievances which deal with public issues such as en­vinmr.lental control, quality of housing, and consumer prices. 
As Hughes sta-tes, "The Public 
Interest Research Group now being organized Indiana hopes to channel the frustrations of those who are willing to voice their iegitimate protests, so that the 'concerns of every citizen are ar.1piified r.1ore cleariy than at present. It is here that the public 
interest is served." 
"In essence what lnPIRG can do 
is spring hope for achieving that 
which was heretofore seen as well­
nigh ir.1possible, he continued. "If 
nothing less, there is a chance at 
expressing the public concern and 
if the concern can be com­
Punicated to all the various in­
terests in society, initial ou-t.rage 
can be translated into joy." 
Anyone interested in joining -the 
pet.itioning drive, or anyone who 
has questions abou-t InPIRG may 
stop in at the library or the dining 
hall information tables this week. 
Student Union Invites You To 
ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
1/2 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar 

* 
Baggage handling & transportation to & from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
HURRY I SOME SEATS STILL AVAILABLE! 
Questions • call Sween at 3669 
"I r.1ay not be a friend of the coalition, but they have becor.1e friends of r.1ine," Hearst said. Asked how the attorney general becar.1e involved, he said he had not talked with the a-ttorney ~·eneral 's office yet, but said they would be t·esponsible for selecting 1he organization to carry out the pian. 
I 

demonstra-te cooperation" with special Watergate prosecutor Leon Jaworski, Cox's successor. 
"The country is in a state of considerable uneasiness and setf­doubt," Richardson said. "Our self confidence is probably lower that at any other time in our history, and it could be per­Panently damaging." 
·­

If you compare, you'll select ltna... If you don't compare, 
don't say we didn't warn you! 
JIM CAMPBELL 
120 W. LaSalle Street 
Suite 1001 
South Bend, Indiana 
233-8207 
The JEtna College Plan ... Life Insurance for students 
1i5iifi1 
LIFE & CASUALTY 

IEtna Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
University of 
Notre Dame Concerts 
Wed. Feb. 20 8:15 
Roberta Bowers mezzo-soprano 
Library Auditorium  admission  s 1.00  
Fri.  Feb. 22  8:15  
Philidor  Trio  

Program:-"HANDEL AND HIS RIVALS" Library Auditorium admission 51.00 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE PERSONALS 
'63 Plymouth: Power, new tires, Observant.. good condition. Best offer. 8132. No more pretendies at Lunch, 
This is for you. How about onion Lund Wood.foam core skis with soup and Waldorf salad sometime? step.in findings. Jl/2 years old. $.40. Fumbles Call Paul 233·3945 
YAGOTAWANIT IND wishes The Galazy..a panasonic Modular Silvertrain Mel Ntire a happy 21st. System. Compatible 8·track in· eluded $135 or $150 with 8-track. Call Ed at 1506. 
SONY CFG 20 FM STEREO·AM. Built in stereo sassette recorder. Speakers included. Colin. 7965. 
NOTICES 

WANTED 
SMC Summer school in London . travel in Ireland, Scottland, Wales,Need ride on 1·80 to twa City, twa England & Paris. May 20·June 20.
Thurs or Firday. Call 6416 nites College Credit available. $795 plus$$$ tuition. Professor Black 284-4948
' 
office 272·3726, home.
Need ride to Peoria 20th or 21st. Call Susie 6982. 
GOOD TICKETS ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT
Lady will share mobilehome. Nice 
UNION ·TICKET OFFICE FOR 
area. Student or older lady. 259· THE MARCH 1 & 2 PER3218 before 9 am or after 8pm. 
FORMANCES OF TWO GEN-TLEMEN OF VERONA AT
ND yearbooks "Dome" 1908, 1914, 
MORRIS CIVIC TICKET OF­
1923, 1940, 1959. Call 6311. 
FICE. OPEN FROM 1-5 DAILY. 
Need ride D.C. or Charlottesville, Every Friday 4:45 the Greyhoundva. Spring Break. Call 8549 leaves the Circle for Chicago. Call Tom 272-7807 for information.
2 or more Marcel Marceau tix. 234-2795. Phil. Thank. you, come 
Beofre you buy a diamond, learnagain. 
the facts. Ken 1859. 2 guys want 2 girls to share house 
" 
for Sept. Call Mike fit 1100. 
----------------------------------------------------~ 

Tuesday, February 19, 1974 
the observer 

Irish survive early scare, win 85-68 
by Pete McHugh 

Broncos back to Kalamazoo with numerous blocks in the second
Without a doubt, the Western period.

Michigan Broncos were inspired. They played like men possessed. They came to play. But it takes Dantley, averaging 16.9 points r:1ore than cliches to beat Notre and 9.2 rebounds, going into the Dame on its home court, as the game, continued to improve on Irish cagers shattered theBronco's those Parks with 23 points and 11 upset dreams 85-68 with a strong caroms. Junior guard Gary second-half showing last night at Brokaw, saddled with three per­
the ACC. sonals early in the first half, led the Irish charge in the second with 14 of his 17 points.
Before yet another capacity crowd, the Irish were noticeably weary from their Eastern road trip The game began in predictable and definitely baffled by the full­style with Notre Dame taking a 4-0 court-pressing Broncos. Coach lead behind baskets by Shumate Digger Phelps' charges trailed and Brokaw. Western Michigan, throughout most of the first half however, was not to be influenced and could not shed the pesky by Notre Dame's lofty national Broncos until a seven point spurt rating and reeled off six straight six r.,inutes into the final period points. opened the floodgates. 
Fror.1 here the game turned into 
The victory upped the Irish a see-saw affair as Western season record to 22-1 and their Michigan's Jeff Tyson and Paul horne win streak to 18 games. Griffin outhustled the Irish 
Captain John Shumate and fresh­keeping the Broncos in front for Pan Adrian Dantley dominated Post of the first period. Taking the action combining for 25 advantage of 14 Irish turnovers, 1·ebounds and 49 points. Shumate the Broncos went up by as many as 
kept Notre Dame in contention in five points and went into their 
locker room with a 37-37 halftime
the first half with 15 of his game-In the second half, the Broncos aren't too r.1any Irish rooters down televised game. A victory over the
intim deadlock. refused to fold until Shumate and there." 
Pioneers would give Notre Dame Dantley began to assert their 
22 for the season, a r.1ark that has Puscle on the boards. Un­In their next encounter, his Irish not been Patched since 1957. But fortunately for coach Eldon face West Virginia Saturday at 12 West Virginia like Western 
MiUer's cagers, it did not take long noon in the ACC in a regionally Michigan will be thinking upset.for the powerful duo to take con­trol. Along with Brokaw, they cor.,bined for 18 of Notre Dame's first 20 points to give the Irish a 57­48 lead with 12:55 left to play. 
With the Bronco shooting cooled­

OBSERVER
off, the Irish began to fast-break behind the outlet passes of Dantley and Shumate. Overall, full court passes accounted for four layups the second half. A nine point spurt 
SPORTS 
with 6:37 rer.1aining r:1ade the outcor.1e academic as Notre Dame took a 71-54 iead and both coaches substituted freely. 
Coach Phelps, was not 

disap-ND fencers down Buckeyes, 
pointed with the sub-par per­forr.,ance. "Youcouldseewewere f f h • fr k f f•.Z... 
tired. We had a bad defense and a S re C WJn S ea 0 llceen 
iot of turnovers. I'm giving the team tomorrow and Wednesday off Matranga, Glass and Fellowsand two days next week to get by John Fineran each had two wins apiece at epee-,some rest." 
Mullenix Coyle and freshmanNotre Dame finally got its post­Terry McConville duplicatingSugar Bowl shot at OhioState, and
On the subject of the post season ther.1 with two each in foil. Batow
the Irish fencers r.1ade their point
NCAA tournament, the Irish and freshr.1an Sar.1 DiFiglio had 
as they handed the Buckeyes their 
Pentor expressed no preference as two wins apiece in sabre.
first loss of the season, 20-7 in the
to the Mideast or Midwest regional, "It doesn't Patter who 
ACC Saturday morning. The win, The Spartans tenaciously stayed which was helped by the Irish close with some inspired fencingwe play, we'll have to play them all 
sor.'e time." was winning 7 of 8 5-4 contests, turned against the Irish, and for awhile,
He emphatic 

around the last two, 14-13 victories DeCicco was worried.
about one opponent, however, "I 
by OSU and kept Notre Dame
just hope we don't meet Alabama 
"Michigan State always fencesundefeated itself.
in Alabama <Tuscaloosa). There well against us," he said. "They 
Two other wins on Saturday, a really scared us, especially in 21-6 victory over Cleve.land State sabre, and for a r.1or.1ent, I thought and a 17-10win over some stubborn they r.1ight beat us."
Wrestlers lose one, tie one 
Michigan State swordsmen, raised That sabre team defeated the
slapping his bigger opponent to the 177. Mike Fanning triumphed by
by Hal Munger the Notre Dame season mark to 15-Irish, 6-3, but Notre Dame's epee
Pat. It was a sign of improvement forfeit. 
0. squad won by the same score. Thefor ND's heavyweight who has his
A loss and a tie are better than foilists, however, were the key,
Besides the elusive team win 

two losses but neither pleased the eyes set on a national title in this Notre Dar.1e coach Mike DeCicco winning eight and dropping one
number 11, AI Rocek has been 
as his second sport. He is now 12-0 on was elated with his squad's
Irish this past weekend they con­against MSU.
chasing a tough-to-come-by goal. 
attempted to break the school's the year, nine of those are pins, vincing victory. "We took com­Coye and McConville each had a
The record for career victories got 
and the defeat Fanning put on r.,and from the beginning," he
record for r.1ost wins in a season. trio of victories with Mullenix
away from Ace as he couldn't win
Bertoline was only Joe's third of said. "The kids wanted this one as 
the year. number 50 Friday or Saturday. taking two in the latter event. 
Friday night's boistrous fans nuch as I did." 
DiFiglio had two of the three Irish witnessed an impressive John 142 pounder Dave Boyer has earlier this year, came before The foilists and epeemen each wins in sabre, and Matranga and
Many of his victories, which came 
Carroll squad handle ND 29-9 in the Fellows twice each in epee.
won

likewise been enjoying a suc­Rocek lost 30 pounds to make room recorded 7-2 wins while the Irish
auxiliary nrn of the ACC. Coye's 7-0, Mullenix's 6-0 and
cessful year with only four black for football transfer Fanning. sabrer.1en won 6-3. In the eppe, tri­
Saturday Akron prevented Notre McConville's 6-1 raised their
r.'arks on his season ledger. Dave Since the weight loss, times captain Mike Matranga dropped
Dar.1e win number 11 battling the individual foil r.1arks for the
won the match 3-2 on some haven't been as pleasing for the one, but won twice. Glass had two
Irish to an 18-18 tie. 
aggressive action which gave him senior co-captain (along with 158 wins and Fellows had three, his season to 29-3, 29-4, and 28-5 
respectively. DiFiglio's sabreMike Fanning and Dave Boyer the come-from-behind win. pound Rich Gilloon) as he'd like, last clinching the Irish victory. 
Park went to 27-5 while Matrangabut one
were the Irish heroes Friday as there's more regular
Boyer did the job again Saturday season chance for Ace and the In foil competition, tri-captain is now 31-3 in epee.
Mike, the 6-6 247-pound wonder, 
as he gave ND its first win of the Jim Mullenix and Tom Coyle each 
came up with a night-ending pin. team to pursue their goals. Drake The Irish will travel to Wisconsin 
day 8-1. Akron's Zips took the first 
Joe Bertoline was the 34Q-pound provides the opportunity and the won twice. Dave Batow lead the this weekend to r.1eet Wisconsinthree natches by decision before r.,eet is on the road Saturday night. sabremen with a 3-0 record. Illinois and Minnesota in ~
Carroll man who had lost to 
Boyer wrestled. Then Fritz
Fanning once before, in the Against Cleveland State, which quadrangular meet. If the ND
Dave 150 On March 1 and 2 the Irish will be 
National Catholic Tournament by Bruenung followed at had lost once all season, Notre fencers can sweep at Madison it
with a pin in 6:39. Akron won 158 in the Eastern Regionals, their 
a score of 4-0. This time the match Dame kept its momentum, shut­will set up a r.1atch-up w'ith
but was foiled 10-7 by John Dowd at first step on the road to the NCAA
ended at 6:29 with the Tulsa, ting out CS in epee while recording perenially·tough Wayne State the
167 before the Zips won again at finals.
Oklahoma defensive tackle a pair of 6-3 wins in sabre and epee . following weekend in Cleveland. 

Adrian Dantley muscles his way in for another layup enroute to a 23-point performance. 




