------~--~~ 


On The Inside 
Letters to the Editor ...page 4 O'Reiley Abroad ...page 5 
serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 4 Tuesday, September 3, 1974 

Faculty Senate 
to discuss neW" ND calendar 
by Norman Bower Staff Reporter 
Faculty reaction to the new academic calendar's August start has tended to be negative, according to an Observer survey. Several faculty members commented yesterday that the students. probably suffered more from the early start of school than did the teachers. 
The consistent view among teachers was that since the calendar was in ef~ect, plans for vacations had been made accordingly, and so no maJor alternations in such summer activities had occurred. 
However Dr. Reginald Bain, chairman of the Speech and Drama Department, mentioned that since the South Bend schools were not starting until September 3, some problems were caused for himself and other teachers with families. 
Bain reacted quite strongly to the issue of pre-Labor Day school. "I hate it; I never voted for it and I want to do away with it" he 
~w. • 
Bain also stated that he had worked all summer and the break between the summer session and the fall term was not long enough. Stud~ing the schedule was deemed necessary by all the professors questioned. As stated by Chemistry Chairman Jeremiah Freeman "No schedule is sacred, whether it starts in mid-August or mid~ September." 
Architecture Dean Ambrose Richardson is taking a "wait and see" attitude wishing to experience the total year before evaluating the University's scheduling. 
Arts and Letters Dean Frederick Crosson agreed with this sentiment and added, "If I had my druthers I'd start after Labor Day." 
John R. Malone, associate Dean of the Business School, proposed a post-Labor Day start and a reshaping of the October break which as now scheduled, he feels will cost people too much money and ' perhaps not fall at the most convenient time for students and faculty. 
The repeated inclusion of pre-Christmas finals was an out­standing feature of the calendar according to Dean Joseph Hogan of the Engineering College. 
Some University instructors voiced displeasure over the fact that the current term ignored the Labor Day weekend. 
Hogan felt Monday's inclement weather caused him to not feel too b~dly about having to work through a legal holiday. Weber explamed that he had always enjoyed the later starting date. 
Many expressed the attitude that "If we're already here it doesn't matter if we work on Labor Day or not" as Ameri~an Studies Chairman Ronald Weber noted. ' 
Fr. Marvin O'Connell, head of the History Department said, "In the sense that the August start necessitated the working on Labor Day, I object to it," 
When askM if he minded working on Labor Day Freeman responded, "No, chemists work every day."' ' 

(Faculty Senate members will discuss the calender issue tonight at 7~30 tn the CCE, room 202) 

Student Government 
•

lists maJor priorities 
by David Rust Staff Reporter 
Student Government's primary concerns at the beginning of the 1974-75 school year are final work on programs for off-campus students and projects related to the new University alcohol ruling, according to Student Body President Pat McLaughlin. 
McLaughlin also outlined his ad­ministrations's plans for the year and spoke about the problems and successes Student Government has had since he took office last April. 
"We really made no campaign promises last year," said McLaughlin, "because we knew some things were going to be changed com­pletely when we got back. 
"As we've already seen, some things have radically changed," he added, referring to· the new alcohol directive from Dean of Students John Macheca, which effectively bars all un­derage drinking on campus. 
"We did, however, try to respond to the fears and concerns to off-campus students who at the time had several basic problems for which we offered possible solutions," McLaughlin said. 
One of these "fears" concerned buying food. McLaughlin's ideal last year was to create some kind of cooperative wholesale unit to buy and distribute non-perishable groceries. Until this could be done he promised to price groceries in the area and publish the results, which he has done. 
McLaughlin had hoped to have the final details on the food co-op ready by the end of this week, but legal snags have forced a delay. 
. "Our problem now is licensing," he said. "At first we wanted to establish the co-op in Stepan Center, and over the summer our polans for that looked pretty good," McLaughliQ explained. "But upon returning we discovered we would need a license for selling," he continued. 
McLaughlin had also considered obtaining food and sending it directly to neighborhood until distributors, but he was forced to abandon this idea because of "nitpicking over food in­spection." Nevertheless, the SBP expects final developments to come "fairly soon." 
Once the system is established, McLaughlin hopes that perishables, such as produce and meat and dairy products will be included. 
"We have to do this right, though," McLaughlin cautioned. "Once we start letting this food go at prices lower than those of local retailers, those retailers are going to make sure 
we're • not doing it just any old way." 
Student Government, according to McLaughlin, has met other off-campus problems but has found that some of these difficulties seemed to disappear when the fall term began . 
There is, for example, the problem of tran­sportation, which inspired the abortive shuttle bus system early last year, and which prompted McLaughlin to arrange carpools for off-campus residents. 
Actual pledges of participation during registration were somewhat less than con­vincing, reported McLaughlin. Off-campus students were requested to stop by a table set up for that purpose in the ACC. Of approximately 1500 off-campus students at Notre Dame, 700 

came to the desk, nine offered to give rides and 20 wanted to take them. 
"Itseems to be one great myth that no one has a way to get to campus," said McLaughlin, who concludes that transportation difficulties which appeared insurmountable in April were ap­parently settled by September. 
McLaughlin had also promised an information packet and a booklet for off-campus students. The booklet, which explains how to find good off­campus housil_!g will be distributed in March. 
Part of McLaughlin's optimism about the off­campus situation is due to his confidence in Off­Campus Housing Director Father Thomas Tallarida. 
"A super guy," commented McLaughlin. "He's been talking to landlords when students . have complaints, fighting for our students. Now if students will only fulfill their halves of the contracts, his job will more much smoother." 
Much of McLaughlin's present attention has been focused on the problem of drinking on campus, spawned by the two Indiana Appelate Court decisions which prompted Macheca's directive to halt all underage drinking. 
McLaughlin's plan centers on a voter re~istration drive and a shuttle bus system which would take students to Michigan. 
The practical aim of the voter registration to help insure the election or re-election of legislators whose positions are consistent with those of the student majority, especially, but not exclusively, in lowering Indiana's legal drinking 
age. The voter registration deadline is September 
21. "Registration day" at the student govern­ment offices will take place some time before them. 
Local officials have told McLaughlin that some kind of basic modification of the drinking age laws will have a "reasonable chance" of passage. Changes may mean lowering the age to 19 or allowing only certain alcoholic beverages below a certain age. 
Until passage of a new law, McLaughlin in­tends to operate a shutle bus system a shuttle bus system which will allow students to go to Michigan without having to hitchhike or drive themselves and endanger their own safety. 
Itwill be a two-or three-bus system, predicted McLaughlin, all buses rented by student government for regular· Friday and Saturday evening service. A possible route might take students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College to 9s diverse establishments as River­bend Plaza, Scottsdale Mall, Town and Country Mall, Edd's, McDonald's, and finally, various night sports in Michigan. 
The shuttle project, along with plans to buy a van for use at Mardi Gras, An Tostal and other functions, will Cut-back from existing programs which are a part of the student government budget. McLaughlin feels the activity that will suffefer the most will be the Sophomore Literary Festival. "The Festival costs $15,000, and we don't have the money," he continued. 
The final budget, which annually assumes an $80,000 income, will be released oetore the end of the month. 
McLaughlin heads a student government group which includes Frank Flanagan as Vice President, Mike Schaus as Treasurer, Louise Nye as Bookkeeper, Chris Knecht as Recep­tionist and Bill McLean as Head Ombudsman. 
Activities Night collage • • • See page 1 
Tuesda~, September 3, 1974
t.h__e observer 

• 
• ~ 
warld 
briefs 
Washington (UPI)--Surrounded by ma!ly of tht; country's top government, labor and business leaders m the W?Ite House Rose Garden President Ford signed a landmark Penswn Reform Law setting 'government standards for p~ivate pension plans. It guarantees minimum retirement benefits to all workers covered by 
the plans. Chicago (UPI)--Former presidential counsel John Dean begins his one to four year prison term tomorrow. He was sentenced last month after pleading guilty to one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice. Las Vegas (UPI)--The Jerry Lewis Labor Day Telethon against muscular dystrophy has ended after receiving more than 16-million dollars in pledges. The telethon ended after 21 and one-half hours of continuous broadcasting from Las Vegas, Nevada. The 16-million­129 thousand 213 dollars is the largest sum of money raised in a 21 and one-half hour period, in a single event, for humanitarian purposes.Chicago (UPI)--A United Press International count shows there have been at least 423 traffic deaths since the Labor Day holiday weekend began at 6 p.m., local time, Friday. 
an campus taday 
7:15p.m.: meeting,manasa (mental health assod.( membership meeting. room 1-c Iafortune 
7:00p.m.: meeting, rugby team, general meeting, new members welcome, archt. bldg. ;30 p.m.: meeting, transcendental meditation, introductory lec­ture, memorial lib. aud. 
8:00 p.m.: meeting, mecha, basement of Ia fortune 
Cut-back in federal funds to delay tutoring program 
Due to a -cut-back in federal funds granted to the South Bend schools system in the Education Act of 1968, the Neighborhood Study Help Program will begin alter mid-Sptember instead of early in the month, according to its program coordinator, Tom Wild. 
Under Title I the federal government had financed bussing programs to and from various South Bend elementary schools, where approximately 450 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students tutored. 
As a result of financial cut-back this year, the program must find other means of aid. Although the program has some funds in reserve, the amount is not enough to run the service as extensively as it was last year. 
Wild stressed that the tutoring program is still in existence, but i! 
will be delayed. He commented that the first semester budget will not be as large as previous years, unless a new means of financing the program is determined. 
In the past, the program received financial support from Mardi Gras activities and Mass collections. Wild is investigating other possibilities for raising funds, one of which is a proposed raffle. 
Recruiting for tutors began during Activities Night and will continue into next week. 
Wild emphasized the necessity of the program. "The coordinators and captains believe the program is worthwhile and that it provides a community service," he said. "We hope the people of South Bend feel the way we do about our program and will help us," Wild said. 



INPIRG 
Qndiana Public Interest 
Research Group) Announces Daily Office Hours 1-3 P.M. Student Govt. 0 ffices 
2 nd Floor La Fortune 7668 6413 
RESEARCH POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN A VARIETY OF AREAS 
Inpirg Also Has A Salaried 
Position  Available  As  
ND-Inoirq  Director  
S to p In Or  C a 11  T h e  In  .  0 f f i c  

Huddle still priority 

LaR>rtune plans discussed 
by Greg Bangs Staff Reporter 
The renovatiJn of the Huddle has been delayed because the LaFortune Renovation Committee has not finalized rebuilding plans, Director of Student Activities Fr. David Schlaver stated yesterday. However, Schlaver noted that two other stages of the LaFortune renovation are under way. 
The stages, as proposed earlier this spring by the LaFortune Renovation Committee, were: remodeling the Huddle; refur­bishing the LaFortune Lobby; and the relocation and rebuilding of Student Government offices and student publications. 
Also included in the plans were the construction of a photo processing room, which would be located in the old government cabinet offices, and the building of a new stairwell at the rear of the building. 
The order of completion of the:;e three stages has been reversed, Schlaver noted. The relocation of the government and publication offices was completed during the summer. 
The reason that the relocation stage was completed first is quite simple, Schlaver said. "We started on the offices during the summer because it is the only time of the year that they are not oc­cupied," he stated. 
Schlaver added that the work being done on the lobby could be started anytime during the year "because no major construction is being done, just refurbishing." 
Although the plans have not yet 

been finalized, Fr. Schlaver ex­
pects the dark  room  to  be  com­ 
pleted  and  ready  for  use!  
sometime this year.  

Fr. Schlaver added that work on the stairwell is presently at a standstill. The stairs are pre­welded metal units that have to be shipped to campus and they have not yet arrived. Further con­struction will be resumed as soon as the stairs arrive. 
The rebuilding of the Huddle was originally the first priority of the LaFortune renovation. However, no work has yet been started. Fr. Schlaver noted that the reason for this holdup was not a financial one. 
The reason why construction on the Huddle has been held up is because we are not sure what we want the Huddle to become," he said. 
Schlaver emphasized that there have been no crises or delays because of the Renovation Com­mittee plans changing their plans. "It is just that plans have not yet been made on what the Huddle should be," he explained. 
"The Huddle is just ot going to be rebuilt. Everything associated with it is going to be revamped," stated the overseer of the renovation project. '"We have to decide what we want the Huddle to be and plan accordingly. The changes will be made slowly but surely." 
Fr. Schlaver thinks that the Huddle renovation will probably be started next summer. "Closing the Huddle during the summer would affect a smaller number of students, so work will probably start next summer," he said. 

DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. '74 Gen'l Features Corp. 
ACROSS 45 I love: Lat. 1 Relating to the 48 Slow to anger eye 50 Tennis stroke 
6 Evian, Vichy, etc. 53 Hypothetical10 Thailand particles, in 14 Baseball's Yogi physics15 Pear tree resident 55 Alamogordo's17 Willow county18 Man in space 57 Effrontery19 Aurora 58 Now or ­20 Warlike 59 Badly done 22 "-you!" painting23 Defraud 60 Expensive24 Office folder 61 Loses weight26 Growing in high DOWN 
altitudes 1 Woodwind 29 Educated 2 Mexican coin 33 Depart 3 Thrice: Prefix 34 Balkan region 4 Wrath 35 Where the Pearl 5 Vivid red 
Mosque is 6 Flash of light 21 Malt beverage 23 Mussel or clam 25 Tending to wear 

away26 Winged27 Permitted by law 28 Talk: Fr. 29 Household gods 30 Old-womanish 31 Asian beast 32 Ameliorates 34 Special event 36 Cloyed39 Drew off liquid 40 Berle and Kamen 42 The human race 44 River of "The 
Pied Piper"45 Included with 46 First word, at 
times 
36 Street sound 7 Type of master 47 Soviet secret 
37 Does an 8 Subterfuges police, 1922 archaeologist's 9 Restrict as to 49 Early empire of job finances Peru 
38 Paul Bunyan's 10 One of a deadly 50 Anthropologist-
specialties seven -Strauss 40 Free-for-all 11 Slayer of Castor 51 Town just N of 41 Raises 12 Fever and chills Provo, Utah 42 Important 13 City on the 52 Round Table 
workers Moselle Knight43 Roof finials 16 Turned over and 54 Gist 44 Mr. Disney over 56 -Aviv 
Plans for renovating the Rathskellar have also been delayed. Schlaver mentioned that the Rathskellar was supposed to be turned into a pub, but with the present state statutes on alcoholic consumption, this plan becomes unfeasible. Schlaver explained that, if the Rathskellar is to be renovated, "It is going to have to be turned into something that all the students can use." 
Fr. Schlaver stated his opinion that most social activities on this campus are based on the use of an alcoholic beverage. Therefore, any setup in the Rathskellar that did not provide for alcoholic consumption would not receive total student support," he advised. 
It is not so much a building or the condition it is in that keeps people away," noted Fr. Schlaver. "We need more initiative from mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity to plan activities. The Rathskellar could serve some function on this campus, but it is the attitude of the students that will help decide its future." 
Mony Present razy Record 
The fastest barber on record is Gerry Harley, who shaved 130 men in 60 minutes at The Plough, Gillingham, Kent, England, on April1, 1971. In setting a marathon record record he ran out of volunteer subjects. 
Source: Guiness' Book of World Records 

B<)b Roemer, Class of '73 

Life insurance tailored to fit the unique needs of students and young professionals. 
For further information call: 
2 3 3-3 1 0 4 
IT'S GOODTO HAVE 


M0NY 
IN YOUR FUTURE 
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
The Mutual Life ln~urance 
Company Of New York 




Tuesday, September 3, 1974 
the observer 

Lugar blasts Bayh voting record 
even durmg this inflationary abortion, pending legislation, and 
by Marlene Zl~za period. gun control. 
Managing Ed1tor The Republican candidla~e also Lugar evaded . taking a direct 
Republican Richard G. Lugar, referr~d to a. survey compiled by stance for or agan~st amnesty but Indiana candidate for the U.S. the Ltbe~tarta~ Task Force, a comm~nded President_ Ford _for Senate brought his campaign to conservatlve-mmded group that "startmg an mterestmg the N~tre Dame Law School ranked Bayh as. 65 out of _87 dialog~~-" ~~~ar pointed out th~t Friday afternoon and continued Senators on a list ~f spendmg "con?ttJo~al IS the key word m his attack on incumbent Senator votes. ~he Democrati_c Senator constdenng . amne_sty and Birch Bayh's economic voting had earlier defended hts record_ on suggested public hearmgs on the record. the basis of h~s position on the list, subject, since any program "must 
Lugar, the current Indianapolis but Lugar pomted out that .65 out be ~cceptable not only to those mayor, began his visit ~ith a brief of 87 actually ~eans B~yh IS 23rd outside th,~ country but to those press conference that mcluded an from the top m spendm~ votes. here also.. opening statement blasting Bayh (No. ~7 ~as the most liberal on Co~cernm~ amnesty for former for "distorting" the. statistics on spendmg tssue~.) . Prestdent Ntxon, the mayor ex­Bayh's own voting record. When questiOned concernmg plained that he was "not for am-
Both candidates and their another aspect of the Task force nesty for anyone" and that he supporters had been exchanging study that listed Bayh between co~si~ered it "not a proper ~.on­criticisms andcounterchargesas a Sen. John J. Sparkman, D-Ala., st1tutwnal legal course: build-up for their statewide debate and Sen Howard _Baker, R-Tenn., However, Lugar added that ~1xon Sunday September 1. Lugar charactenzed these t~o "has already proba_bly patd thz 
' conservatives as "not necessanly highest penalty posstble." 
Lugar, who has been devoting a economical senators." Asked about his position on the major part of his campaign and Lugar also accused Bayh of Equal Rights Amendment, Lugar publicity to attacking the "voting to spend more each and stated that he is completely in 
Democratic incumbent, used every year" he has been in favor of it and has encouraged its 
statistics compiled by his own staff Congress and expecting to get ratification in Indiana. to charge Bayh with "voting for away with it because "he never In answering a question about more expenditures than did thought we'd get to the record." his opinion on abortion, the Congress as a whole". Turning to other matters, Lugar Republican candidate replied that 
He stressed that Bayh "con-answered a variety of student the Supreme Court "was far too tinues to promise expenditures" questions dealing with amnesty, liberal in its ruling." He added 
On south quad 
Liturgy program planned 
by Bill Gonzenback have to form two groups." he services that develop:e, a unity Staff Reporter commented. between the students and staffs of Campus Ministry, in conjunction 
Bro. MTaggert reported that the participating halls. with eight halls on south quad, there were a number of reasons for The first service will be held has initiated a new liturgy the new program. First, he Wednesday, Sept. 4, in Walsh Hall 
program. . . the program will be revealed that Campus Ministry presided by Robert Griffin, held on Wednesday nights at 11 would like to end the duplication of University Chaplain. The schedule 
p.m. in the participating ha~ls, religious services that are held in of future services is as follows: with each of the halls actmg the halls during the week' as host hall for one week during the Secondly, he explained t~a t 
Sept. 11 -Alumni eight week program. Campus Ministry hopes to brmg Sept. 18 -Dillon 

Bro. Joseph McTaggart of students, rectors, and hall staffs Sept. 25 -Badin 
Campus Ministry stated that "the together in a combined religious Oct. 2 -Howard liturgy program does not service that would hopefully Oct. 9 -Fischer necessarily have tQ be a initiate communication and 
Oct. 16 -:SOrin 

Eucharisti.c Service". He com­friendship between people of the Oct. 23 -Lyons
mented that the hosts will deter­different halls. Any other hall on South Quad mine the type of services offered in Thirdly, he rqJorted that campus wishing to participate should their halls for the specified week. Ministry wants to offer an op­contact Campus Ministry -103 
Bro. McTaggart suggested "that portunity for halls to d~v~lop Library(6536). participants could develop ~uch 
creative, meaningful, rehgwus programs as penance services, Bible vigils, prayer servic~s, creative discussions of scripture, or any other type of religious ser­vices that they feel are meaningful." However, he stressed that these services are not substitutes for the 
SENIORS weeklv Sunday Mass requirement. "We have not begun to consider new programs for Sunday Mass," he continued. 

SENIOR PICTURES WILL
The program was initiated by a number of people from South Quad who wanted a change from the regular liturgical cere~o~i~s. 
BE TAKEN:
McTaggert believes that hmttlng the geographical location to the South Quad will keep the group small enough to maintain apersonal and meaningful encounter. "Once 
Sept. 9-13 9a.m.-l p.m.
the group gets too large, we will 
Two states 
and 2p.m.-6 p.m. 
plan races 
WASHINGTON <UPI) Tomorrow is election day in many parts of the country. Some im­portant primaries will be in the 
Sign-ups In The Dining H ails
national spotlight. Democrats in North Dakota go to the polls to choose between former 
Wed. Thurs., & Fri. at Dinner
Governor William Guy, a veteran of 12 years in office, and his old opponent Robert McCarney, who was once a republican. 
In Nevada.· former governor 
or Call

Paul Lasalt has returned to the political arena after four years and is the ()dds-on choice to win the Republican Senah nomination in 
7258 between 7 & 9 p.m.
the State's primary election. 
The , at is being vacated by retiring democratic Senator ·.n Bible. 
that he favored a more limited law specifics. allowing abortions in cases of rape Asked whether he would support and incest, to save the lif~ of.. a a suggestion by President Ford for mot~er or where th~re Is a a 10 cents per gallon gasoline tax predtctable malformatiOn of the hike, Lugar lashed out strongly fetus." against this idea saying that it was
Questionedfurther,~ugar_add~d not a Ford pr~posal, was "not that ~e sa~ ~o confhc~ wtth hts supported by the President" and abortion opmwn and hts support obviously "emanated out of some for the ERA. of the 'reliable sources' in 
About federal gun-control Washington." <On Saturday, the legislation, L';lg~~ remarked t;hat a UPI reported Presidential Press strict ~ro~~b1tlon of pnv~te Sec~etary Jerald F terHorst as owne~sh~p would le~~ to m-saymg that Ford opposed a 10 cent secunty among the ~Itlzens and gas-tax hike, although it was "one added that the Umted _S~tes of many" plans under con-should try to "reform the cnm~nal sideration by White House justice system and lower the cnme economic advisors.) rate" rather than stiffen gun Concerning his own plans to fight control laws. . inflation, Lugar said he realizes 
Back to the economy and m-that "we must employ measures flation problems, Lugar suggested that probably a majority of the a 10 billion dollar cut in the federal people will dislike." budget, half to come foom the "My position is not a popular defense budget and the other half one " he concluded "but we do from social and public works hav~ a chance to get our house in 
. He did not include any " 
jiii!pill.lllilil•iiiiii!••• 

.l.ALI:SMAN 
1 

F o r m ·e r 1 y T h e M a r k B 1 o o m B a n and The Crow Brotbers Band 
1 
I 





NOW AVAILABLE FOR DANCES, CONCERTS, PARTIES, AND PRE-GAME PE RMANCES 
During Sept., Oct., & Nov. 
Call-212-9895 For Bookings & Information 
,~' 


CALCULATOR PRICES SMASHED 
Tl-2500 Reduced To $44.95 TI SR -10 SlideRuleNow$69.95 TI SR -11 SlideRuleNow$79,95 
Others From $19.95 
Easy-to-read 8-digitAdds, subtracts, display. Decimal point is automatically placed 1
multiplies and divides. 
your answer 

Instantly! Accurately! Easily! 
Completely portable. Fits easily in briefcase or purse. 
Simple to operate-just touch the keys 10 the same order that you say the problem. 
Clear Entry key erases ---c last entry if you touch the wrong key by mistake. 
Calculation overflow and low-battery warning signs. 
sequence or multipl•catton and division by a constant number. 
Rechargeable long-hte power pack. AC adapter/charger included. Can be operated on standard house current 


Audio S~ecialists 
415 North Michigan 234-5001 



______,_. 


As it stands now, Notre Dame is hours between, making all but Nixon is out, Ford is in, and Barry Goldwater no longeronly slightly more co-ed now than impossible the casualvisitation of
"Gone, gone, threatens to sue the Washington Post for Watergate revelations. 
it was in the spring of 1972. women by men. Development of As a welcome relief, news of Watergate developments lie buried 
University policy and the locks on the ability to relate to members of beneath front-page stories on inflation and Cyprus. The Nixon 
nothin's gonna 
the doors of the girl's halls prevent the opposite sex in more than one scandals no longer grip the nation's throat and divisive 
bring him one of the most significant aspects manner is stunted. (Note: I have Presedential confrontations are artifacts of a previous ad­of a co-ed university, the always wondered how the ad­ministration. The dangerous ~olarization personified by Ronback ..... " development of understanding ministration explains away the Ziegler and Congressman Sandman evaporated with the for­
between the sexes, something that viciously high divorce rate bet­mer's banishment, and the latter's conversion. Now Americans is not possible in a single sex ween Notre Dame men and Saint only reluctantly glance back over their shoulder at the wren­school. Mary's women. The rate is ching Watergate episode, and try instead to focus on the road 
somewhere around 75 per cent).
Dear Editor, ahead. 
Miss McCarry's column in last · attended as an undergraduate a Yet the Observer editorial of August 28 suggested that the week's Observer saddened me, small liberal school in Michigan. resolution of the Watergate debacle has been "Too Easy." The because it revisited upon me the Of the six dorms on campus., four I would therefore hope-that there editorialists contend that Richard Nixon must pay for his sense of frustration and anguish I were co-ed, and the atmosphere of would be, on the administration's crimes, with the presumption that we must "give him the experienced when I learned of the the college in general was co-ed. timetable, a plan for turning Notre treatment he has given us." The August resignation letter suicide of one of my former We were able to develop friend­Dame into a truly co-ed institution which disssipated the Watergate storm cloud was not enough in roommates at ND-a close friend ships among both men and women. and removing the barriers bet­their view. With reference to "due process," The Observer and, I believe, a pilgrim such as ween the sexes. Are locks on the chiefs rendered their verdict, and await its execution. you described your friend Michael I personally had many female women's doors really needed While it is simplistic to suggest that Nixon be exonerated just to be. friends at school and count myself during the day (or night for that so that we can forget about the Watergate unpleasantries, the 
lucky for it. matter?) Is there really any issue of Nixon's prosecution involves more tha n the question of 
Ponderous thoughts arose in me reason that men can visit other "an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth." The Observor at the time, to analyze this men at any hour while the women editorial contends that a lack of prosecution would result in mysterious decision, which first are strictly off limits during the "The compromising of ourselves and our beliefs." but it ignores stings and debilitates, and yet, as Dr. Joyce Brothers, in her AM hours? Is the rere really any the uniqueness of the case of Richard Nixon, and also fosters a you perhaps unknowingly implied, column of August 25, reported the reason not to have co-ed dorms discredited view of criminal justice. soon becomes as casual a fact as findings of a survey on the effects (other than almuni disapproval)? Former President Richard Nixon did not leave the Presidency the placing of a teacup upon the of a co-ed dorm on student lives I, for one, am waiting for some of his own free will. With impeachment a "foregone conclusion" table. and values. To me, the results answers. and the erosion of his "Congressional base." Nixon was a vir­
For a while I had gloried in were not at all surprising, although tually powerless man. The political process designed to rid the Peter's frightened search, in his they could come as a shock to the Gail Fisher Presidential office of violators of "high crimes and genuine bewilderment at the administration. The two most misdemeanors" accomplished its goal, and Nixon resigned darkness of the unredeemed hearts significant aspects were: because he had no choice. The judiciary Committee's call for around him. But as I have thought impeachnent straitjacketed Nixon, and he could not wriggle

"You couldshoot free.
about it I do not think I can hallow 1) That the-boarders in a co-ed 
or respect the decision that Peter­dorm came to perceive the a cannon down " ~hus t~e Congress!onal verdict whcih charged Nixon withor Michael· -made. Suicide is too members of the oppostite sex high cnmes and misdemeanors" carried with it a de factocasual a defilement of life, despite living in that dorm as people first the hall and I I punishment -Nixon is now "imprisoned,' in his Californiawhatever powerful emotions and (instead of prospective lovers). 
home. Ide~d, the disgraceful loss of the Presidency might be the thoughts may seem to demand it. Indeed, the vast majority of w?rst poss1ble penalty for thepower-greedyand image-conscious Life is not 'l brittle as that teacup boyfriends and girlfriends of the Editor, the Observer No~on. To suggest that Nixon's resignation was "easy" is toon the table, and must not be made co-ed dorm inhabitants came from 
It seems Dean Thompson finds it' 
beheve that only conventional criminal punishment such as ato Sf!f'm ., by hallowing a decision outside that dorm. 
troublesome when he can find no 
jail term, indicates retribution for wrongs committed.
mad<> or; the basis of culture, 2) The incidence of sex among 
targets for his cannon balls. His 
The question of amnesty embraces a similar concern. In aciro::umstances, emotion or the students did not differ solution seems off-target also. As very real sense, draft evaders have been punished by their
fragmentary thoughts, and significantly from that of non-co-ed a student <and potential victim) I fo~ced absence from home. although technically they haveignoring the ability of Jesus to d?rm students. In fact, the in­
must protest mandatory at­
ne1ther been prosecuted nor convicted. Now the nation con­defeat 11t•ath, in all its forms. Cldenceof casual sex was lower. 
tendence before breaks if I am to 
s!d~rs the dropping of prosecution not only because it seeemTh,-lr rinlll choice was not 
be shot at. If our adminsitration 
nd1culous to throw these men in jail for 'rehabilitation" (theyvaliar,-.?r hPrnic, holy or spiritual­
mjst prohibit alcohol in the halls, 
couldn'tevade the draft again if they wanted to) but because that it was simply wrong. They chose I would not doubt that surveys annnons should be outlawed also, elusive_ intangible, the good of the country, would be betterdefeat., instead of the battle in taken some years from now would as their propensiity to do harm is served 1f the traLgedy of the Vietnam war is put behind us. 
which J'~sus gives life. establish that those students which far greater than the evil elixirs I contend it is the same intransience that the VFW mainifestedhave lived in a co-ed dorm during now banned. 
when it refused to consider amnesty that marks those who seetheir school career would have a Despite the university directive, justice served only when Nixon's "easy" resignation is com­Tom Noe, '69 significantly lower rate of divorce. I ust in the interest of my own pounded by_ criJ?inal punishment. Perhaps we ought toWe will see. perosnal saftey, depart this prosecute N1xon m the mterests of our legal axiom which dic­
campus one day proir ot the 
tates that all men are equally accountable to the law but to The women we will meet in our scheduled breaks to avoid the unconditi?nally call f_or _his prosecution is to ignore the more
Co ·e d Capers chosen professions will have to be obvious hazards referred to in co~plex 1ssues of cr1mmal punishment and social welfare. 
regarded as equals and without Dean Thompson's statement I will N1xon may not deserve more punishnent than he is now 
Well.~··., hack to school time and romantic overtones. Yes, the ocntinue to leave early until a new receiveing, contrary to the views of the Observer editorialists 
if 'lf.ceu· ·; that the only change to world outside the ivy halls is co-ed university directive (or "academic but he may des.erve the judicial condemnation of hi~ 
com• ,~, :r our Notre Dame is that and it might be wise to learn to dode") is issued outlawing can­Presidential misdeeds. Even short of that, however Nixon has 
now v.-or;. tall has lace curtains cope with a co-ed environment nons in hallways. 
iu the ·wiml•IWS and locks on the before we leave this hallowed 
:ioor. Yes, for those of you that institution. Notre Dame in the past 
· 1av"n't notin.:ct, du Lac is in the has not allowed students to learn 
}rOC('~S of becoming a co-ed in­this. The administration 
!'.titution. although it still has quite segregates the two populations and 
:l long roar! to travel. puts bolted doors and visitation 

DOONESBURY 
M(!JV'~ ~ AS M~. RJRP'S PRINCIPAL 5PfNSMAN, MY~& lUSHIS 10 I£T Y(}(} KAfJW /'REC/SEI,Y UIIAT IS 60/NG ON, TO PRO­VIA!' YOfJ tv/TH II IU!N/JOIU IN7V 1Ht F0RP IIOMINISTRIITION! 
" 

[ 
r 
r 
&" Hl:'l -;?~ 
~ U' v l) JeRRY_ HOII/ SO lr 7liCRE5 A80f/T CHAN61N6 ANYTHING I YOUR NAMe?ff CAN PO FOR. lOOKS UK& A >0(/, lllftTHIN6 7YP06RAPIIICAL AT AU.... ERROR. "'., I 
llllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHtftlll--1 
Behind Bars ? 
IIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIUIII.... d aVe h 8 y li' S Ullllllll 
paid a high price for his illegality not only at th~ hands of Congr_ess, but a~ the hands of the majority of ordinary Amen~ans :nho Will never again allow Nixon to rise to political power m th1s country. For Richard M. Nixon that is indeed a 
high price. 

by Garry Trudeau 
{)v~~cr 
I'i:JB& IIAPPY TO. 

ANY5(JG­"SMITH"/ GtST!ON5? ~lfOJAK"!
I 

/"TRI66ER!
/ 
"' 
' 
NiS?hf Editor: Tom O'Neil Ass't Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Layout: Don Longano, Mary 
Reher Editorials: Fred "Happy Birthday 

.. Annie, Baby" Graver Sports: Bill Delaney > Pictures: Albert "out of business'
..• 
D'Antonio

•., Copy Readers: Jim Eder, Jeanne 
.a Murphy0 Features: Robert Baker Typists: Dave Rust, Barb Nor­
•
..c cross, Barb Haug, Tom
... 
Modglin, Jim Lands, Rick Huber (Typist of the month, Kathy) 
Features: Robert Baker Night Controller: Howard Halle 
On this date 21 yrs. ago--Ann McCarry Born (3 bottles of wine you say?) 

., 
t 
Tuesday, September 3, 1974 j
the observer 5 

·-t 
j 
I l 


fareir:~n nates j 
1 
4
life aboard the s.s.-france J 
t 
• 
~ 
j
tim a!reiley 
How ironic it seems to begin a year's stay opportunity to reflect on or gossip about the to three other dessert choices, plus an or lying in bed. ~ in Europe with a one week funeral events and mostly the personalities on unlimited flow of red wine throughout the This does not mean that the ship provides 4 procession. Indeed, through its parties, board, or prepare for the night ahead. This meal. With thisvariety of food, it becomes no entertainment: as many as thirty people 
•
dance lessons, deck chair service, and nautical cousin to aristocratic banquets very easy to order it all, especially when it is at a time rose early to watch the sunrise. 4 splendid cuisine, the S.S. France bravely carries on a tradition of patience and grace all included in the ticket price. So a slow Calisthenics, bridge games, French lessons 
•
proclaims that this pride of the French largely forgotten today. lunch or dinner, of between one and three and deck games were scheduled every day, 
•
Lines shall sail eternal seas. Beneath these Of course, not even the most talkative can hours, is necessary to get it all down, and but most of us were too dead or disinterested cosmetics, however, rigor mortis already ignore the fabulous French gastronomy, being on a boat, keeping it all down. Also, to participate. When the weather is good, wreaks its toll on this next to last dinosaur of reputedly among the best in the world. French traditions prohibit starting a new many take a deck chair, get wrapped in a ••j its species. Veteran passengers speak wistfully of the course before all have finished the current blanket or book, and enjoy the tea and t 
The luxury liner's staff has been cut by 20 pre-budget cut days, when first classers one, further preserving an unhurried eating cookies served at 4:00 p.m. Movies are per cent. Bon Voyage parties have been could order absolutely anything that pace. shown everyday but are French speaking •4 eliminated. Many of the locks separating pleased them. Though they now use menus, Though the waiters occasionally miss with no subtitles. 4 the tourist from the first class have and caviar has been served to them only orders, these men are the products of years Night life, depending on whom you may 4 disappeared. Even the maitre d' of our once, the food will never be confused with of training, and provide service par ex­ask, may or may not be described as death. dining room advised us to take whatever the South Dining Hall's. cellence. They have mastered their trade Entertainment is aimed for a median age of • souvenirs we desire, since potential Our dining room, the Restaurant Vee­well enough to pull an occasional prank on 40, which was the approximate age of most • customers of the France would have to refit sailles, serves a breakfast consisting of us, or sing the song on the menu's back people taking it in. The Lounge St. Tropaz • the ship, anyway. American standbys, such as bacon and cover. (Incidentally, whatever your mother plays champagne music, not including the •l 
What passes here is not merely a form of eggs, cereal, fruit with the crescent rol~s. told you about French men is probably an yawn-inspiring final night party, so nix the J transportation, but a lifestyle. This is the Notmanyinourgroupmadethe9:30closmg understatement.) St. Tropaz. The Rive Gauche Nightclubgracious life, taken with strides that are time for breakfast, when the seating is (referred to by various obscene names by •
4
always carefully measured and carefully arranged by the waiters. We sat together at For the Innsbruck group, lunch and the end of the trip) has some rock, but a placed. But in a world where speed over-several assigned tables for lunch and din­dinner were the main events of the day. painfully limited repertoire. Some of the •
4
whelms leisure, the great passenger ships ner where the real eating takes plaace. The Most of us were late sleepers, waking at the vocals sounded unique when sung with 
~ 
have almost completely surrendered to the me~u then lists thirteen cullinary categories crack of noon. After lunch, it is hard to French accents, like "Roolin' ahn tha jet. in all, including hors d'oerves, soup, eggs, summon the energy for anything but a nap. reevah." But it is good enough for dancing, • Many of us were ready to quit after a 45-several main courses, five kinds of cheese, After sleeping and before dinner, little time and the bar is cheap in case the music 
~ 
minute wait in the stifling hot passenger coffee or tea, and a basket of fruitinaddition exists for anything but dressing for dinner becomes too boring. Next door, the English 
I
terminal, that seemed an omen that we had speaking movies run at night, at times that cattle class staterooms. Once on board, -allow us to do little more than belch after 
•
however, the fun of trying to figure out this dinner. The flicks, (such as "Marne" and 
•
eight deck, 1,000 foot long monster began, "A Night at the Opera,") are worth ~ little 
•
made more interesting because French was rush to be at the comfortable, 660 seat now the predominant language. theatre on time. After the organized ac­~ The ship's economy move of pulling in and tivities, we usually held a couple of small 
•
out of port on the same day added to the gatherings in our comfortable, four-bunk 
festivities. Most of us stayed on the top deck cabins. • to avoid all this, and instead watch the When the fat is cut away, ocean voyages • promenade of those who came to be seen. are not designed to be strenuous affairs; TV • The clothes, jewels, society people, and the doctors do not prescribe ocean voyages to 
I• 
first-class party in the patio, (or pit as it get into shape, but to forget the world that looked from the deck) were worth it for surrounds the ocean, to let others do the those who came to watch, or anyone who has work, to relax enough to compensate for the 
never before seen such a spectacle of wealth days of overwork and strain. ~ and arrogance. We also anticipated the The technological supergrowth has departure and watching America disap­made the world turn much too fast to allow j pear, but a 2-hour crew strike delayed such splendid isolation. Decisions cannot matters, sending most people to eat while wait, people caught up in the rapid pace of 
• 
only a few stood witness as the Statue of life insist on jets. Being raised in the ~ Liberty passed by. freeway society of Southern California, I 
After abandoning this commotion, the found all this free time was nibbling on my ~ slow charm of cruise life reveals itself with nerves. Those hard core passengers, the 50 the first meal. The food stands center out of 2,000 who held a protest rally to save stage, yet satisfying the pallette becomes the France, who still regale in la vita dolce, 
l
nearly a secondary purpose. Rather, a meal must turn to the Queen Elizabeth II as their 
4
is to be experienced and enjoyed as a chance final solace. The rest of us, trapped by a to talk about the day, the next day, or fast maturing world that will not be delayed, •~ anything that comes to mind. It creates an will pay no notice to the passing of a great 
~ 
that talking wallpaper l ~ 
•
by bob quakenbush •
•~ 
This week I find myself carrying on the Tonight at 7:30 the 3;M Company sponsors Fisher Theater (just across the street from Hal Holbrook portrays Abraham Lincoln •
tradition of the famed (and graduated) the first of seven special programs entitled the General Motors Building). ~ 
Friday evening in the premiere offering ofObserver TV columnist Art Ferranti, "From Sea to Shining Sea." Robert Culp, of Thursday night the Pittsburgh Steelers "Sandburg's Lincoln," a six-part adaptation •
penning the first and-or possibly last TV "I Spy" and "Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice" attempt to forge a victory over the Dallas of Carl Sandburg's Pulitzer prize winningcolumn of my collegiate career. Before I reknown, headlines the cast as John Cowboys in an exhibitin game on NBC. But 
•
biography of the 16th President. The 9
begin outlining this week's Michiana area Freeborn, as American "Everyman" who is if you'd rather start your fall football o'clock telecast focuses on Mr. 1
Lincoln'stelevision highlights, I'd like to make an on the scene during several crucial viewing yby seeing a really fine football compassion for his wife, and is ap­~ announcement in Art's memory -one I'm moments of Revolutionary history. In team perform, wait till Monday night when propriately titled "Mrs. Lincoln's sure he would make if he were still at DuLac tonight's episode, "Give Me Liberty," on the defending national champions open their •

Husband," Sada Thompson stars as Mary
typing his beloved Little Big Screen -"The Channel 28, Freeborn is caught up in the season against the Rambling Wrecks of Todd Lincoln. • Starship Enterprise still roams the universe drive for independence from British rule. Georgia Tech. 
~ 
on its five year mis~ion to go where no man James Brolin takes down his "Dr. Kiley" An alternative to NFL Thursday night In a lighter vein, all three networkds
has gone before Saturday nights at six on shingle tomorrow night and spends several fo?tball is "Villain" a 1971 film starring A 
p~es~nt_Previews of their Saturday morning aChannel 28." hours accidentally locked inside a depart-Richard Burton. Photographed in and kiddie hne-ups earlier that evening. Their ~ The week's TV offerings can be nothing ment store. His only companions? Vicious around London, the movie casts Burton as a titles are "Socko Saturday on CBS " ABC'sshort of a history major's delight, as the -guard dogs trained to kill. Leave your dial gang boss intent on pilfering a chemical "Funshine Saturday Sneak Peek,': and thenetworks air three 90 minute historical on 28 at 7:30 to see Brolin fight for his very plant's payroll. The thriller begins at eight "NBC Saturday Mourning Preview Revue." 
dramas -miraculously, none scheduled in survival while "Trapped." on Channel 22. 
This ye.ar all three broadcast companiesconflicting time slots. Unfortunately, that's But if you prefer new television fare to An hour preceeding, you can catch a are leanmg toward more live-action showsa situation which surely will not last in-made-for-TV reruns, leave Brolin to the profile of a soon-to-be-extremely-famous in their Saturday children's programming. 
l
definitely, as America's Bicentennial draws hounds and turn your channel selector to motorcycle stuntman, "Evel Knievel: One <F.o~ comic book fans, SHAZAM, the
even nearer and historical dramas capture Channel 16 at-8:30 to witness NBC's adap­Man ... One Canyon," on ABC. The program ~ 
ongmal Captain Marvel, zooms into action
ever increasing amounts of broadcast time . ta tion of "Henry Fonda as Clarence details preparations for Knievel's Sep­at 9:30 am). ~ between now and July 4, 1976. CBS started Darrow." Fonda's one-man broadway show tember 8 attempt to ride a Skycycle aross 
TRIVIA QUESTION: Everyone
the trend on the Fourth of July this summer about the legendary defense attorney has the 1600 foot wide, 600 foot deep Snake Rive 
remembers the cute little mice Pixie andwith the debut of its "Bicentennial Minutes" received nationwide praise and still is on Canyon in Idaho. Also included are on-the­Dixie, but what was the name of the cat who series, a nightly offering of encapsulated tour throughout the country. As a matter of stree interviews to guage public reaction to exclaimed, "I hate meeces to pieces! " 
history lessons prepared to commemorate fact, when I left home it was still scheduled the cyclist's planned feat of daring. events in American history "200 years ago ·to make its Detroit debut the same night, so I There's always textbooks and the library today." wonder how well tickets ard selling at the <Memorial) ... SljU!f .JW :mJMSNV 

, 'f-*".,' .

Tuesday, September 3, 1974 
· J-"It
the observer

• 
Campus Briefs • • • 
South quad carneytoday 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

"Carney '74," the final activity of the campus orientation program. will take place today on the South Quad, weather per­mitting. 
Highlighting the festivities will be addresses by Universitv President Theodore M. Hesburgn and Student Body President Pa McLaughlin. 
WSND, the student-operated radio station, will hold the finals of their week-long "Name That Tune" contest and will broadcast live from the South Quad throughout the evening. Contest winners will be awarded gift certificates from Gilbert's, a local clothing store. 
A rock band and a variety of 
booths and games are also 
scheduled. 
All members of the ND-SMC 
community are invited to par­
ticipate in "Carney." Off-campus 
students, faculty, staff members, 
and their families may purchase 
meal tickets to the picnic for one 
dollar. 
In case of rain, the entire 
schedule of activities will be 
cancelled. 




New mail 
•

serv1ce 
by Chris Bock Staff Reporter 
Beginning today, on-campus m.ail will be delivered to every Notre Dame building except Carroll and St. Joseph's halls. 
On-campus ·mail boxes can be found in front of the North and South dining halls, LaFortune Student Center and the Knights of 


Israelies kill guerrillas 
TEL AVIV <UPI) -Israel reported its troops killed two Palestine guerrillas who tried to infiltrate across the western end of the Lebanese frontier in an at­tempt to attackisraeli settlements last night. 
AnIsraeli military source says it was possible the guerrillas had been in Israel when they were spotted in the light of a full moon and were shot to death. 
Israel has a chain-link fence running the length of the 64-mile 
installed sensing devices and floodlights along side coils of barbed wire to keep the guerrillas out. 

The Israeli military command says thP. guerrillas tried to cross the frontier between the settlement of Hanita and Zarit, six miles east. Both are just below the frontier and west of Fatahland in Lebanon. 
Hanita is about 10 miles north of Ma'alot, where four guerrillas killed 31 persons on May 15th. The guerrillas died in the attack. 
Yesterday's incident was the first of il<; kind since Israeli troops stormed a_.~ apartment house June 25th and lt:illed three guerrillas after the \rabs had shot three persons tt death. 

t:oJUmbus Building. Mail will be picked up at 12:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and delivered no later than the next day. There is no postage charge for this service. 
Problems or questions can be directed to the on-campus mailman, Drew Danik at 3150. 
This service is not available to St. Mary's students. 
Yearbook staff changes 
by Fred Herbst Staff Repoter 

Yearbook editor Susan Darin yesterday announced the ap­pointment of the editorial staff for the 1974-1975 Dome. 
The new staff consists of Tom Paulius, production manager; Steve Simpson, business manager; Dana Nahlen, student life editor; Bob Quakenbush, sports editor; Lisa Moore, Organization editor; Chris Burger, senior editor; Zenon Bidzinski and Chris Smith, photo managers. 
When asked of the staff's future 

plans, Darin stressed that plans 
had been made but that she was 
not at liberty to elaborate on them. 
Her only comment on the sixty­sixth edition of the Dome was that she felt "confident that it'll be a good book". 
Student 
•
UDlOD 


claims 
by Chris Bock Staff Reporter 

The Student Union will be ac­cepting claims on articles damaged or tost in summer storage today through Friday.
Students having contracts with the Student Union should file a claim describing their loss and ~~~':[e~;tJ~i~~e c:;~~C:.tionist in the Services Commissioner, Rick
Go~den!explainedthattheStudent 
Umon IS only responsible for in­sured, fragile items and furniture picked up by noon, Aug, 31, as stated in the contract. 
Golden and associate director Ray Carey will handle the claims and notify the students concerned by Wednesday, sept. 11. 
"We're trying to be fair and equitable to everyone with these claims," said Golden. "If the Student Union loses money on this, it will just come out of other ac­tivities on campus. This was a non­profit venture on the part of the Student Union and we have a good chance of breaking even." 

Pears strikes 
again 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 

Campus Security Director Ar­thur Pears announced yesterday that beginning Thursday morning
citations will be issued to all vehicles parked at Notre Dame without registration decals. 
The citation involves a $50.00 fine whichisapplicabtetothestudent's university account if not paid to Security or appealed. A five day period is allowed during which the 
citation may be appealed.
Pears mentioned that his off1ce has been registering cars prior to last Tuesday (registration day) and that vehicles may presently be registered at the Security Office between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m. 
Driver's license, proof of owner­
ship and proof of insurance are required. *" 


meals i 
* 
by Susan Divita ~ Staff Reporter * 
d. * 
Th

e mner meal student ex-* change program between Notre*
~~:"e and St. wtill cBonht.nhue ~ 
Kiernan Ryan, Asst. Vice co-exchange program is alreadyPresident of Business Affairs at operating for those students who Notre Dame. Some difficulties the have two of the three lunchtime 
program experienced have been classes at the opposite campus. resolved, but a meeting will be Students need to show their held to work out exact details and schedule to be admitted. to select the students who will be Ruan said an announcement will directing the program. be made as soon as the details are 
Edmund to Price, director of the worked out concerning the co­South Dining Hall, said the lunch exchange tickets. 


DEBATE TEAM 
MEETING FOR ALL IN1ERESTID 
9:00P.M 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 4 Room 1-C La FORTUNE 
:***********~**********************t 
* * L< ' IL ,. iC it
rex: N ro II ~est
1 
~ ~ 
i :+lt­
~
* 
** 
* * 
~ 
* * 
14­
*" 

SMC 
* ON SALE: • 
CODtl•DUe * * Wednesday. Sept. 4. from 9to 5. •• 
* ACC T" k Off •
* 

V ~ 
d • it it .._ 
as StU ent UDlOD presents _. 
~ 
-tel
SHA N~ N~ ~ 
-+c.
-iC 
~
f 
special guest: Fresh Flavor •-tc 
Saturday1 Sept 28 8 30 •I_.., 
• • : 

P.m•.,
• 

Tickets: $5.50. $4.50. $3.00 i 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 
For the Dome Yearbook and-or the Observer 

*DAVE'S CYCLE SHOP* 
IN COLLEGE SQUARE A FIFTEEN MIN.' RIDE FROM CAMPUS 
WINTER PREP. SPECIAL 
BEARINGS REPACKED 
CHAIN, DERAILLEURS CLEANED & ADJUSTED 
ONLY $10 (REG. $15) 
ph. 256-0741 
ALL YOUR BIKE NEEDS AT REASONABLE PRICES 


lC et ice. (gate IO) • 
• 1
and F r 0 m I : 3 0 t 0 5 :0 0 : Student Union Ticket 0 ffice it
•
(LaFortune Student Center). • 
* *****************-***********ic : 
HAVE YOU THOUGHT BOUT EXPANDIN 


YOUR FUTURE? 
Tuesdllly,. Septem.ber .3, 1974 
the observer 

CLASSIFIED AD!i 
For Rent 
House for rent. 1136 E. Sorin. 2 Br, Lr, Br., S. Porch, Part. Furn. 'Jim Licata. 289-7811 
One room for rent. NO students. $50· per month. Call 288-9533 or 232-9311. 
Attractive, clean, large apartment, fully furnished including utilities. Sleeps 4 adults only. 602 N. Michigan. Inquire Kagel Florist Shop. 
Lost and Found 
Lost: set of keys. Jim: 289­7811 or 287-8282. 
Lost: Intermediate Ac­counting textbook in room 102 Bus. A. If found please call Bill 3058. 
Lost: Application for University of Colorado in the vicinity of the Huddle. Very, very important. Contact Alec at 8276. 
Wanted 

Need 2 G.A. tickets for 
Purdue. Please call Dave 3458. 
Needed: Assistant debate coach; law or grad student. Call John Borkowski at 2182 or 3700. 
Need 4 G.A. tickets to Purdue game. Call Mary at 4365. 
Wanted to buy: girls used bike. Please call 234-7616. 
Exchange 2 $10 bleacher tickets for 2 section B or C. Will pay $50 a ticket with exchange. Joanne or Sandy 287-9114. 
Purdue G.A. tickets wanted. Please call Mary 283-7953. 
Barnaby's needs ex­perienced part time pizza help. $1.90 to start. Mostly weekends. Apply at Bar­naby's Restaurant 713 E. Jefferson during the day. 
Part-time babysitter needed for two small children two or three days per week. Own transportation must be provided. Phone 283-6619 or 288-9892. 
Wanted: Green or Blue rug. 8'12 x 11'12 Call Mary 283­7953. 
For Sale  
ancient  Greek,  
to  

Used furniture for sale. Call Stanley 287-0318. 
For Sale: Couch $20, single bed, $18, small chest of drawers $10, 2 comfortable chairs, $2 and $5. 289-3369. 
Sale: Couches, chairs, lamps, rugs, at Cooper's, Call after 6 p.m. daily except Fri. All day Sat. and Sun. Free delivery. 272-3004. 
'66 VW bug, runs well. $300 or best offer. Call Mike at 287-3463 after 6 p.m. 
For sale: 1974 Kawasaki 250, only 1000 miles, must sell. Call 6839. 
Notices 
lnpirg office hours: 1-3 p.m. daily. Student Govt. offices-­2nd floor LaFortune 7668­6413. 
InternationaI organization needs 4-5 part time students. Work your own hours, in­come depends on personal need. Contact Jerry Har· tinett 219-324-5013 Tues. or 
Fri. 10 a.m. to 12 noon. 
Money? Morrissey Loan i=und can lend you up to $150 for 30 days. 1 per cent in­terest, 1day waiting period. 11:15 12:15 daily. Basement of LaFortune. 
Talisman (formerly the Mark Bloom Band and the Crow Brothers Band) are now available for dances, concerts, parties, and pre­game performances. For bookings and information, call 272-9895. 
Save money on used texts and paperbacks for. N.D. classes. Pandoras books. we buy, sell, trade books. 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. Magazines, pipes, papers, art prints for sale 
Personals 
Colleen, How can I tell you. Remember all the happy times. Best of luck for the year. Love always, John. Voy evol I 
To the Pontiff of Rome-­Beware of Church Evolution. The Earthy Ones. 
Blossom, Cleanliness is next 
to Godliness and THE SWING is even better. Thank you from the bottom of our hearts. The motley crew and two 
Tom, Klein, hope your burnt arm is better. 






CARNEY '74 TODAY 4:30-DUSK SOUTH QUAD 
GAMES * PRIZES * 
CLOWNS * BALLOONS* 
PICNIC 
Dave Witt Agent 


Dennis Chiddister ent Agent 
e~r affer year, semester 
after semester, the CollegeMaster from Fidelitv Union Life has oc~n tile most accepk'<l 
most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegeM aster·· Field Associate in your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
Tuesday, September 3, 1974
8 the observer

.. 
Offense. kicking spark Irish '0' 
by Bill Delaney 
Coach Ara Parseghian brought his Irish football team into the stadium Saturday in what was to be the last full scrimmage before next Monday night's encounter with Georgia Tech. Before it was over, the offense had a 54-7 "vic­tory." 
In a scrimmage characterized by long sustained drives, quar­terback Tom Clements took the first team 60 yards in ten plays on its first series of downs. Wayne Bullock and AI Samuel gained 23 and 21 yards respectively in this particular drive, and Clements went around left end for the score. The next drive, covering 53 yards in five plays, highlighted by a 20­yard pass to Pete Demmerle, ended with Clements going around right end for his second score. The first team's third and final drive covered 46 yards in eight plays, with AI Samuel eluding Pat Sarb on a twelve-yard run. 
Clements finished the day four­for-four in the passing department for 62 yards and four carries for 25 yards, and two touchdowns. Samuel carried ten times for 100 yards, and one touchdown, and Art Best garnered 36 yards in seven attempts also with one score. 
Frank Allocco, Clements' backup, and Rick Slager, in competition for the number two quarterback position both engineered two scoring drives. Slager took the second team and 27 yards. Allocco led the team 73 yards in five plays, with Dave Reeve making a 35-yard field goal and 50 yards in six plays, with Art Best skirting right end for 15 yards and the score. 

Kerry Moriarty led the third team offense for the afternoon, and impressed the coaching staff with his running and roll-out ability. 

Samuel finished the afternoon 




OBSERVER. 
SPORTS 
Stickmen hopeful in '74 
,.. by George Eckes 
Coming off a discouraging 1974 season the Lacrosse .. Club is preparing earnestly for the 1975 edition with fall workouts that culminate in exhibition tilt with Lacrosse Club alumni, Oct. 12. 
Once again the team will be under the watchful eye of Rich O'Leary, although throughout the fall the stickmen will be under the tutelage of Rich Caron, this year's president. Along with co-captains John Corcoran and Joe Meares workouts will be conducted daily, (with emphasis placed on fun­damentals) capped off by weekend intersquad scrimmages. Caron has plans for scrimmages with Michigan. Purdue, and the University of Chicago, but dates for these encounters are tentative at this time. 
The ; . ish will be looking for some talent to fill in the holes left by the two stalwarts of the defense, r.eoff Lyden and George Carberry, 

as well as a replacement for goalie Joe Lepley, who also graduated. Defensive hopes are going to fall on the shoulders of Jim Early and John Fatti (both juniors) Bill Foley, a senior, and freshman Mark Carberry, brotherof George. Midfielders should consist of John Corcoran, Paul Rizzo, Steve Tarnow, and Rich Caron, while Joe Meares, Bob Thibodeau, and Kevin Fogerty should hold down the 
attack positions. 
Joe Leolev left big shoes to fill 

! 
but Caron and company are pin­
ning their hopes on freshman Jim 
Scarola from Syosset, New York. 
Notes President Caron, "We are 
quite confident Jim can do a good 
job for us." 
Throughout the fall all eyes will 
be focused on the weekend of 
Oct.ll. As well as the much an­
ticipated Alumni clash at 5:00 at 
Cartier Field, the stickmen will be 
hosting a banquet which will 
feature the head coach of the 
national champion Johns Hopkins. 
McNeil named to new post 
1'1otre Dame Athletic Director Edward (Moose) Krause has announced the appointment of Assistant Hockey Coach Tim McNeil to the position of assistant to Baseball Coach Jake Kline. McNeil is expected to work with the varsity baseball squad during the fall season until hockey begins. McNeil will devote his talents to the baseball program after the end of the '74-'75 ice hockev sea~on. 
McNeil brings with him a reputation for developing young players and bringing them gradually into the system. Under Head Hockey Coach Lefty 'smith McNeil was also in charge of the Junior Varsity icers. 

His team resembled the wishbone "We do have some problems attack Georgia Tech employs, against the wishbone" noted Coach enabling the defense to gain some Parseghian. "Since we haven't valuable experience against this seen or played against many offense. teams that use it, our experience 
Buggers look toW'ard 

busy fall 
by Bob Kissel 
For most Notre Dame athletes 
summer is the time to recover 
from past wounds and anticipate 
the coming season. Not so for the 
Irish rugby squad. On July 20th 
many ND ruggers flew into 
Chicago at their own expense from 
points as far as Florida, Penn­
sylvania, and Missouri to play a 
benefit game for the American 
Cancer Society against the 
midwest champs, the Chicago 
Lions. 
"We played the game to help the 
Cancer society and also to promote 
rugby, both in Chicago and for 
Notre Dame", remarked team 
captain Larry Casey. "About 1200 
fans saw the game and helped 
raise some 4500 dollars for the 
cancer society. Even McDonald's 
helped out, providing free soft 
drinks for the players and fans." 
Among those attending the game 
were representatives from the 
Midwest Rugby Union, a 
clearinghouse for all rugby ac­
tivity in the midwest. These rugby 
officials calledthe contest "one of 
the best games ever played in the 
Midwest" 
Despite only one day of practice 
against four weeks for the Lions, 
the Irish were able to come from 
behind and register an impressive 
19-19 tie. "The lead changed hands 
many times," explained Casey, 
"yet we wanted that game so much 
the team never quit and was able 
to capitalize on the Lions' 
mistakes." 
Capitalizing on opponents 
mistakes is the keynote for this 
year's Irish rugby team. As 
evidenced in the benefit game, the 
team is aggressive and hungry. 
"We're going to work harder 
than ever, with more running and 
conditioning," added captain 
Casey. "Our schedule will 
definitely test the returning 
strengths and speed we have, both 
in the serum and in the backfield. 
The players who should be on the 
"A" team this year are all eager to 
play and anxious to settle a few 
scores from the spring season." 

schedule 
The rugby team is looking for athletes, no matter what size or speed, to play in the fastest growing club sport in the U. S. There are no cuts in rugby because most clubs field three or four units. 
The only necessity is a willingness to play. The rugby team practices behind Stepan Center every af­ternoon for all interested in "a gentlemen's game ~layed by a 
bunch of ruffians." 
with the different aspects of the 
wishbone are very weak. We do 
need practice against it, and that 
will be one of our keys in the up­
coming week." 
On the defensive side, Coaches Yonto and Shoults are relieved that no injuries came out of Saturday's workout. Steve Niehaus and Jim Stock continued their consistent play while the linebacking crew of Greg Collins, Drew Mahalic and Marv Russell sparked an effort which limited the second and third team offenses to only two first downs. The defensive backfield, the area of critical conern to Parseghian was highlighted by the spirited play of Randy Harrison, the free safety. "Randy is coming along very well," commented Parseghian. "Although he's young and inexperienced, he's making up for it in his desire to learn and hit. Randy is getting the experience he needs day by day, and he will really help us." 
Other highlights of this final scrimmage included Tony Novakov's block of Tom Lopien­ski's punt for a safety. An in­terception by Drew Schuett on a Gary Forystek pass resulted for the only points the defense could manage. Dave Reeve connected on five of six PAT's and his kickoffs were consistently well­placed. 
This pleased Parseghian who had been concerned with the kicking game. "Our kicking game has considerably improved since last spring, when we were com­pletely decimated by graduation. We now have a capable snapper in Andy Rohan <replacing Joe Alvarado), who just went out and won the job. Tony Brantley's punting has been very consistent, and Reeve's improvement in just two weeks is very gratifying. We had three critical areas that needed to be concentrated on this fall: our kicking game, depth on the defensive team, and also the defensive backfield. With this scrimmage, I feel that we have completed to a certain degree the first two, but we still need work on the third. If everything falls into place by Saturday, we should make a fine showing on Monday night." 

Sunshine Promotions Presents 
Van Morrison 

and Special Guest 
Dave Loggins 
Sunday Sept. 15 -7:30 P.M. 
Athletic and 
Convocation Center




NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices: 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT
Bleachers ...........$4.D 0 
GATE lOTICKET OFFICE
Lower Arena ......... $5.00 
ROBERTSON'S SOUTH BEND'
Loge ............... SaD.O 
ST. JOE BANK AND BRAN:
Platform ............ SUO 
CHES, FIRST BANK DOWN­
Floor Seats .......... SS.OD 
TOWN, AND ELKHART TRUTH. 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Van Morrison. Send to Van Morrison Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stomped envelope. 




