Irish stain 3 No. 1 titles 
Add UCLA, Michigan Tech to casualty list; see below and page 8 
On The Inside 
Little Big Screen ...page 5 
Mardi Gras Costume Ball ... page 2 
Vol. VIII, No. 61 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, January 21, 1974 
Irish cagers do it: 
ND 71--UCLA 70 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
Who would have thought it possible'? 
Who would have thought that Notre Dame could trail UCLA by 17 points in the first half and then rally in the final20 minutes to hang a 71-70 defeat on the previously­unbeaten Bruins? 
Who would have thought that Notre Dame, still down 11 points with 3:22 remaining in the game, could outscore the Bruins 12-0 during the final moments of the contest to give UCLA its first loss in 89 outings? 
And who would have thought that Dwight Clay and Gary Brokaw, a duo which has successfully worked its magic on opponents such as Marquette, Pittsburgh, and Ohio State, would be able to dazzle John Wooden's defending National Champions in similar fashion? 
Who would have thought it possible? Certainly not Wooden himself. "We certainly didn't figure to lose with three minutes to go and we up by 11 points," he said. 
But they kept at us, and they deserve a tremendous amount of credit for their play. We lost a little of our drive and played &little tqo conservatively at the end, but Notre Dame's man-to-man defense hurt us, their players really hurt us, and their crowd really inspired them." 
_Nor did the Bruin players think it possible. Wooden's line-up, which included All-American Bill Walton, played its game cooly and un­flappably, and not until Notre Dame's John Shumate leapt out of a crowd to pull down the rebound of a last second tip-in try (That was the greatest rebound I ever got," bubbled Shumate in the victorious Irish locker-room) did the spectre of a streak-ending defeat descent upon the poised, confident Bruins. 
But there were believers-both on the Irish bench and in the ACC capacity crowd of 11,343. One of them was Digger Phelps, the Notre Dame coach. 
"We never quit," he said. "We were down 11 when I called time out (with 3:22left to play) and we had to make some changes. We went with our press, putting (Ray) Martin back in instead of <Billy) Paterno. The kids never quit, and it happened for us. For 88 other coaches including myself, it was a great win. 
"And it was especially so for Notre Dame--for everyone in­volved from the coaches, team, school, alumni, and everyone else. I'm sure a lot of people around the country were rooting for Notre Dame today. It's only human nature to want to see the Bruins beaten." 
Another believer was Shumate, 
who made several contributions 
beyond his last-second, game­
ending rebound. "It's the greatest 
feeling of my life," said Shue, who 
finished the game with 24 points and 11 rebounds. "I knew we could make a game of it if we stuck with it, and we did. 
"I was just trying to do what I do best, and all I asked during the game was that I not lose con­fidence in myself or my team­mates. I knew we had to have faith." 
But faith alone wasn't enough to offset the Bruins' awesome first­half shooting display. The Uclans shot 70 per cent from the floor during the first 20 minutes, and with 6:02 remaining in the half found themselves leading by 17 points after Bill Walton bounded over Shumate to drop in a lob-pass basket. 
But Walton's score triggered an Irish spurt, and some four minutes later Shun1ate beat Walton inside to cut the spread to seven, 39-32. Billy Paterno's 25 footer cut it to five with 49 seconds left in the half·, but at string of four unanswered free throws sent UCLA off at halftime in possession of a 43-34 lead. 
Phelps changed the offensive complexion of the game at half­time by electing to go with his "speed team "--Brokaw, Clay, Martin, Shumate, and Adrian Dantley--but the Irish made no attempt to alter their man-to-man defense. 
"Why should we change?" asked Phelps afterwards. "There's not much you're going to do about a 70 
(Continued on page 8) 

Gary Brokaw's 24th and 25th points bring Notre Dame within one, 70-69. 
j 1 
1 
, 
~ 


' 1 
1. the observer Monday, January 21, 1974 
warld 
briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI)--The House Judiciary Committee will make some key decisions this week that may determine the prospects for impeachment of President Nixon--including how it will obtain con­fidential material and what charges to eliminate. 
BEIRUT <UPD-The Iraq News Agency said Sunday that Arab oil-producing countries are expected to resume normal production of petroleum and to cancel their embargo on shipments to the United States in view of the Egyptian-Israeli troop disengagement ac­cord. 
SAIGON <UPl)--Chinese MIG fighter­bombers and marines mounted an all-{)ut attack Sunday against Vietnamese positions on the disputed Baracel Islands in the South China Sea, capturing all three Vietnamese bases in only 20 minutes, the Saigon Com­mand said. 
The attack gave the Chinese complete control of the Paracel archipelago, located 200m iles east of Vietnam's central coast and 200 miles south of China's Hainan Island. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The Pentagon plans to drop a record $92.6 billion 1975 budget on the doorstep of Congress a week from Mon­day-a figure that could set of an explosion under the Capitol dome. 
an campus taday 
10 am-5 pm--art exhibit, don vogl-the recent graphic works of notre dame's professor of graphics and painting, o'shag art gallery, free 
7, 9:30pm--foreign film festival, "le bourgeois gentilhomme", eng. aud., free 
7:30 pm--mexican-american lecture series, "internal colonialism and the plural socieyt," by dr. rodolfo stavenhagen, faculty loung, mem. library 
free 8 pm--concert, "an evening with joni mitchell" ace, $4.50 & $5.50 

Bob Roemer graduated from Notre Dame In 1973 and was signed by the Pittsburgh Pirates immediately and assigned to their Class A club in Niagara Falls. While at Notre Dame, and captained As his first close, he decided to develop himself in a business that offered independence and the opportunity for op­portunity to work with and serve the Notre MONY He has developed skills in the PRIME college market, personal estate planning and health insurance plan­
Then contact Jack 
As far as their own ability and 
Mays, manager,
initiative take them. 
South  Bend, 515 St.  
Joseph  Bank  
What  Bob  Roemer  has  done  is  above  Building.  Phone 233­ 
average.  But  the  opportunities  are  still  3104  or  interview  
there.  It's up to you.  If you have what it  with  us  on  campus  
takes. we have the career -both in sales, and  Jan.  31st  or  April  
4th.  
sales management.  The insurance industry  

is growing and at MONY we've branched into mutual funds and variable annuities. 


M0NY
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
Masked ball. 
carnival 
to highlight 

Mardi G·ras 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 
"When Mr. Bilbo Haggins of Bag 
End announced that he would 
shortly be celebrating his eleventy­
first birthday with a party of 
special magnificence there was 
much talk and excitement in 
Hobbiton."(From J. R. R. Tolkien.) 
The theme of Mardi Gras '74 is 
the Master of Middle Earth, taken from The Lord of the Rings trilogy of J. R. R. Tolkien. Events to embody this theme will indude an opening costumes ball entitled "A long expected party" from the first chapter of the first book of Tolkien 's trilogy, and booths at the Mardi Grasearnival created with a 
look to middle-earth. 
Mardi Gras will begin with the 
Costume Ball party, Thursday, 
Jan 31, from 9:()0-12:00. Tickets 
will be $2.00 per person or $3.'?5 per 
couple and will be on sale Monday 
through Thursday this week at the 
dining halls. On the following 
night there will be a concert at the 
Athletic and Convoca1tion Center, 
music provided by the J. Geils 
Band. On that same Friday af­
ternoon, the Mardi Gras carnival 
will begin from 3:00-7:00. 
The carnival will bE~ held every 
day following that Friday, through 
Sunday, February 10. Saturday, 
Feb. 4 from 3:Q0-6:00 and 7:()0­
12:00 p.m.; Sunday, Feb. 4 from 3:00-8:00 p.m.; Monday thru Friday, Feb. 5-8, from 7:()0-12:00 p.m.; Saturday, Feb. 9; S:OQ-12:00 and Sunday, Feb. 10, 1:00-6:00. Prices for the carnival will be fifty cents per night Monday thru Thursday, seventy-five cents per night Friday and weekends ex­cepting the last day, Sunday Feb. 10 when all admission will be free. 
Construction of booths for the 
carnival and other apparatus will 
begin this Tuesday, Feb. 22, and 
end next Tuesday Feb. 29. 
Steve Boy, chairman of the Mardi Grasstated that the purpose of the event is two fold. First, to raise money for Notre Dame charities such as: CILA, MECHA, Neighborhood Study Help, and Sr. Maria's Day Care Center. Second, to provide the student body with entertainment during a slowpoint in the social calender of the second semester. 
Boy also urged all students who had sold tickets for the Mardi Gras to turn the money in immediately, to their section leader , hall rector orMardi Gras representative. 
March to protest legal abortion 
Protesting legalized abortion, members of the South Bend Right to Life organization and Notre Dame-St. Mary's students will picket the South Bend Federal Building Tuesday, January 22. 
Tuesday marks the first an­niversary of the Supreme Court's decision to legalize abortion in the United States. The marchers will assemble at the Right to Life office at 320 N. Lafayette at 11:30 a.m. and proceed to the Federal Building where they will demonstrate from noon until one p.m. 
The Observer is publi!hed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notr-e Dame, Indiana 46556. Sec:ond class postage paid, Notre D;tme, Ind. 46556. 

We've Moved 
Now Conveniently Located in Badin Hall Next to the Barber Shop Open 8am-6pm, Mon.-Fri, 9am-4pm Sat. -All types of Shoe Service and Accessories Downtown Free Pen or Pencil for Everyone 



TAEKWONDO 
'~4~'"'.:... ~ .., ''.'. 

m~·Jl.*'~l~Ji\',.~····y<$ •.
<tl 0 .;,.,~ 

DONG SIK KIM HEAD INSTRUCTOR: One of the highest black-belts in the world 
+KOREA NATIONAL MASTER INSTRUCTOR 
+INTERNATIONAL MASTER  INSTRUCTOR  
+UNITED  T.  K.  D.  FED.  MASTER  IN­ 
STRUCTOR  

Teaching at 13 colleges & Y's in U.S.A. including 
N. D., St. Mary, Indiana, Bethel. 
FREE: 1. 1.0. (1 yr Good), BROCHURE, TER1MINOLOGY 
2. ALL CLASSES IN THE SCHOOL (1506 MISHAWAKA AVE. See th~ Yellow Pages.). MICHIGAN STATE, CLEVELAND, BOSTON, PHILA, WASHING. D.C. 
*SPECIAL BEGINNERS CLASS Mon-Fri *ADVANCED, BLACK-BELT CLASS 
ACC 

CALL: 283-3275 (campus) 
289-1278 (school) 
233-7279 {instructor) 
INSTRUCTORS: KIM (Head Instructor) 
HENRY (SECRETARY SKALSKI (Chief Assist) 
JED ANDREW (PRESIDENT) 
BELTRANENA. FABREGA (SECRETARY) 
Union director Bohlander~ faces short, busy term 
by Gregg B. Bangs Staff Reporter 
New student union director Pete Bohlander has only a short term ahead of him but it's a busy one. 
Bohlander, a senior chemistry major, took over the reins of the Student Union immediately after Rybarczyk resigned. He was not, however, in the dark on how to run the post of student union director. "We knew all along that Jim was going to leave (not necessarily because of the ticket scandal) so he had been working with me all along. I pretty much knew what to do when he finally did leave." 
It may sound ironic that one of the first responsibilities Bohlander has to live up to is preparing someone to take his place come April 1. Bohlander said that a list of people was being considered for the post and a co-director would be chosen from them. This co­director would take over Bohlander's position April 1 and hold it the rest of the spring semester as well as the ensuing academic year. 
As far as plans for this year go, Bohlander doesn't plan to make any drastic changes. "Our first concern is to make sure that the 

community-wide "Salute to the 
Champions."  Parseghian  
climaxed the  event  with the  in­ 
troduction  of  the  squad  that·  

brought the No. 1 ranking back to NO. 
. . Ara Parseghian, Coach of the National Champion Fighting Irish football team, addressed a large crowd yesterday afternoon in the Convocation Center during a 
Sorin party penalties relaxed 
by Jack d'Aurora Staff Reporter 
The three Sorin Hall students responsible for an allegedly out of hand party the night of September 21 are now allowed to go to athletic events but will have to work for 25­30 hours apiece. 
This change of disciplinary action from Dean of Students John Macheca 's original decision to deny them attendance to athletic events came as a result of an appeals court's recommendation that he review the case at the beginning of the second semester. 
The students, Chris Oberhardt, Bill Oberhardt and Terry Cavanaugh, had waved their right to go before the Judicial Board, deciding to let Macheca judge their case. Approximately one week after receiving the Dean's decision, they decided on October 7 to appeal their case. Thus they were put on probation with no interim measures taken. 
The appeals court met 
December 6 and affirmed 
Macheca 's original punishment of 
denial of attendance at athletic 
events for the remainder of the 
first semster, but recommended 
that he review the case at the 
beginning of the second semester. 
The reason for the delay of the 
hearing is the S.L.C.'s slowness in 
assembling an appeals court. 
Grounds for appeal were 
twofold. First the students 
believed they had suffered undue 
process of law. "Dean Macheca 
persuaded the three of us to place 
ourselves in his hands for 
judgment and sentencing. We 
were under the impression that 
other avenues open to us were 
more risky and less desirable," 
according to their written 
statement. 
Mardi Gras comes off all right," 
he said, "and basically carry through on what has already been planned for this year." 
However, before these events take place, there has to be enough money in the budget to cover them. 
Bohlander and his staff will attempt to make money to cover debts and try to raise enough funds to stabilize the budget. 
When asked what events had~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
been successes thus far, Bohlander thought that the Homecoming Dance, the Armory Party and the train trip to New Orleans (barring Amtrak's con­tributions) had been worthwhile ventures. He mentioned that he would like to sponsor another Armory party this semester. 
He also mentioned that he would like to see the Student Government and Student Union work more closely with each other. To achieve this, these two organizations will be meeting frequently throughout the semester. Bohlander seemed enthusiastic about this develop­ment, thinking that it would help promote student activities. 
With working on the budget, Mardi Gras, interaction with the Student Government and training a new director, Bohlander's seemingly short term will be concerned with quite a number of events. It is Bohlander's hope that everything will go smoothly . 
Two more years••• 
President Nixon begins his sixth 1 year as President today. 
Secondly, they believed that deprivation of attendance at athletic events "is to severely limit our social life in an already limited atmosphere." 
Upon beginning the preceedings the plaintiffs were informed that they would have to decide which was more important. The court could only decide on one appeal; they chose the latter. 
The major problem concerning the case is the discrepencies in regard to "what one saw and what actually happened," remarked Macheca. Sorin's rector, Fr. Richard Zang, reported that there were about 80 people in the hallway, with an unknown number drinking. An R.A. cited the number nearer 50. Zang also complained that there was no attempt to keep the crowd inside the room. An R.A. stated that there was a "serious attempt to keep tbe party under control." 

Allegedly people were drinking beer from bottles and cans. Ac­cording to Oberhardt, "If there was anybody drinking from cans or bottles, they weren't from our party. We served everybody beer in cups." A second party was going on elsewhere in the Hall at this time. 
Oberhardt added, "We crammed everybody into the room after the first complaint," referring to R.A. John DiPietro's first warning. "I saw no more than 7 or 8 people in the hallway with beer," he con­tinued. 
(Continued on page 6) 
-----------, 
3

the observer
Monday, January 21, 1974 


WSNDAM-FM 
WSND will hold auditions for the following positions ONLY: 
FM (classical) announcers AM music programmers News personnel 
Auditions will be held Tuesday and Wednesday nights (Jan. 22 and 23) 7-11 pm To sign up for a time, call 7342. 
SMC Social Commission Broadway's Own 
TEVYE & GOLDE 
from ,;Fiddler on the Ro.of" Admission: 
JAN. 25  8:15 pm  
$2.00 students  
O'LAUGHLIN  $3.50 public  
AUDITORIUM  
FOR  RESERVATIONS  PHONE 284-4176.  


"A Long-Expected Party" 
Tolkien Costume Ball 
THURSDAY, JAN 31, 9-12 La Fortune Ballroom 

singles $2.00 couples $3.75 I 
~ 
...tickets on sale I 
MON, TUES, WED in the dining halls 
"Anyway, I mean to enjoy myself on Thursday" Bilbo Ba ins, . 49 


the notre dame student union presents 


JONI MITCHELL 
with Tom Sc9tt and the L. A. Express 
TONIGHT at 8pm in the ACC 
Tickets are $5.50, 4.50 and 3.00 available at the ACC Ticket Office (Gate 10 ) and in the dining halls during the evening meal. 
MANY GOOD SEATS ARE STILL AVAILABLE 
"Her concerts are rare but worth waiting for." The New York Times 
': ..•• '' -I i 

', .'\Dpinian ..;­"' 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
The Dillon 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief 
Executive Editor Executive Editor 

Incident 
NEWS:  283-1715  
Lee Gentine  EDITORIALS:  283-8661  John Kloos  
Business Manager  BUSIUESS:  .28~-7471  Advertising _Manager  

Monday, January 21, 1974 

The Calendar Vote 
The Academic Council is one of the truly important legislative bodies on campus because they are respon­sible for the academic codes and regulations at the university. In­cluded in that responsibility is their duty to set the limitations within which the university administration can schedule their academic calendar. The council voted to drop the limitation which prevented the academic year from beginning before Labor Day. Now that that 
,.. 
limitation has been removed, the 
administration has scheduled 
classes to begin prior to Labor Day. 
The furor that arose after the calendar was announced was widespread. Students, over 75 per cent of them in a poll, stated their opposition to the early start. Discontent was obvious in the faculty. Yet, the calendar stood firm. Fr. Burtchaell insisted throughout that the new schedule would stay and rationalized that no calendars are popular when first announced. Burtchaell's attitudes seemed throughout the crisis to also become the attitudes of many of the members of the council who ap­peared to be acting in blind ignorance of the discontent that their resolution caused. 
Finally, the council has responded to the voices that have been raised. Ten members of the group have petitioned for a rehearing on the calendar issue and they should be praised for being responsive to the people of this campus. Too often the Academic Council is locked into their private sessions and lose their grasp of the fact that they are legislating for the people who work and study here and that they, as any other legislator, are responsible to their constituency. 
What to do? 
There are a couple of things that need to happen before Thursday's meeting of the Academic Council. First, the Faculty Senate meets Tuesday and it is their responsibility to pass a motion stating their displeasure with the pre-Labor Day beginning. Their strength allied with that of the students could be a crucial factor in overturning the calendar. If the Senate can pass such a resolution and the faculty members of the council overlook the stance of their colleagues, then they are clearly are being negligent in their responsibility. 
Sec-ond, the students must work for a calendar change. Right now, the best way to do that is to consult with the faculty and administr,ati(Jin members of the Academic Council. 
Talk with them and show them that not only are we upset with the new calendar but we have rational reasons to be upset. 
The vote comes Thursday and the calendar must be changed. There is still time to chage it for next year despite Fr. Burtchaell's arguing to the contrary. Just remember, a few years ago at approximately this same point in time, a complete merger of schools was called off. The one stumbling block to changing the calendar for next year is that the motion to re-institute the block of a pre-Labor Day opening for the 1974­75 school year can be tabled in the legislative session. Burtchaell is rumored to be contemplating that. If the motion is tabled, at least we know where the impetus to squealch the rehearing of the calendar for next year carne from. 
Jerry Lutkus 
Sign All Letters 
The volume of letters coming into will not print unsigned letters. All The Observer this week has been letters must be accompanied by a very heavy and with the increase in signature. Names will be withheld correspondence has come the in­upon request, but names must ap­crease in anonymous letters. As a pear with that request.point of reminder: The Observer 
The Editorial Board 
bill sabin 
Last semester a student in Dillon Hall was suspended for violating parietal regulations and violating the University's rule on human sexuality. Some of the curious facts surrounding the incident bear closer scrutiny. 
First is the charge itself. Cer­tainly, there are many known parietal violations every weekend, and there must be hundreds more that are unknown. Therefore, the extremely harsh nature of his penalty leads one to conclude that it was mainly directed at his violation of the sexuality rule, not parietals. (The student in question never denied having had sex with his lover, his freiends say that his personal integrity made it im­possible for him to lie -a lie which probably would have saved him.) 
What is the University's rule on sexuality? Have you ever heard of it? I haven't, but apparently there really is one on the books somewhere. I'm told that what it says, basically, is : no sex until you're married, gang. Not on our campus anyway. Why'? Because it's immoral. 
In a long talk with Dean Macheca two days ago, I asked him whether or not the University regards the problem of morality as a personal philosophic question instead of a set list of rules and regulations. Well yes, he said, morality is a personal thing; but then he proceeded to ramble on about parameters of behavior that the University has established in 
light of its own moral code etc. etc. It was a long vague reply but what it boiled down to is : you may have your morality but we have ours, and while you're here you do it our way or not at all. 

This is a pretty heavy line. It's bad enough that the Burtchaell­Macheca teams atavistic vision of "morality" bears a sickening resemblance to the Nixon-Mitchell team's delusions of law and order, but what's worse is that they are going to ram it down our throats in the same self-righteous manneras those creeps in the White House tried to do. 
But this shouldn't be surprising, no more than Watergate was. Mter all, this is a "Christian" university. Despite what Christ is supposed to have said, legislation of morality and enforcement thereof has long been a solidly "Christian" endeavor -from the Spanish Inquisition to the hotbed of anti-abortion zealotry that exists on this campus today. 
And to speak of enforcement of morality leads us to the second outrage of the case, namely, the blatant snooping actions of our esteemed provost. It seems that he went to the room in question ­notwithstanding the fact that the student lived on the second floor and Burtchaell was the third floor RA and found the door locked. He then opened it with his pass-key ("He knocked first," says Macheca) and really got the goods on this heinous sinner. Not only were the beds pushed together ( ! ! ) but there was a woman's clothing lying around (! ! ! ) . 
And this, we are told, are ac­tions of a "Christian" doing his duty to the University .. and to God Almighty, I suppose. 
But this is getting off the track. As I say, none of this should come as any surprise to anyone. The University's heavy handedness is a well~stablished fact and is their perfect legal right, this being a private institution. They are the first to tell you that it's their ball­game and if you don't like it you can leave. 
But what was surprising was the incredibly condescending attitudes displayed by the University of­ficials. The student told me that, to him, and I agree, the most in­credible thing about the whole affair was that Burtchaell and Macheca really seemed to believe that this was all done for his own good. This will make a man out of you, son with a pat on the head. Macheca calls it "rehabilitative discipline." 

CQme on, John. You don't try to "rehabilitate" well-respected honor students with clean records. Hell no, you should be out rehabilitating prowlers and peeping Toms that sneak into other people's rooms. These are the real perverts. They are the ones whose souls are in big trouble. 
There are other aspects of the case that should be dealt with in greater length, things like the curious stiffening of the penalty that caused the student to have to fly back to this doomed sinkhole of a university just after having left. But later for that. I'm getting too distressed just dwelling on it all to write any more. 
Don't get caught screwing around, fellow .. Domers. It's against the rules. 
daanellbury.. 9arry trudeau 
r-----------------~ 
the observer 
UM.. NO. 
NO flllll! .1'11 
JUG1 
11VCH 110R6 BOYS!
SNeAO 

HEY, I'M 
COtORFOl-AAH. BOYS!
HERG ... 
tXJNNA 8& 
Night Editor: Joe Abell
THAN H6 YOtJi 1
A STAR! 
·Asst. Night Editor: Maria Gallagher
\ 
IS/ /"KJTH&te.. 
Layout: Bill Brink, AI Rutherford Day Editor: Mary Janca Copy Editor: Rick Thues Typists: Camille Arrieh, Bill Menk, Howard Halle Compugraphlc: Phil Orscheln Picture Screener: J. M. Phillips Night Controller: John Flannigan Sports: Fin and Garage 
I 

Monday, January 21, 1974 the observer 5 
1
Iheatwave in the city and running into trouble in a desert. On next Sunday channel 
j
Little Bi' Screen -6'J I
16 at 10:15 airs Two For the Road as its late movie entree with Albert Finney as an· unfaithful husband to Audrey Hepburn in a catchy comedy-drama. 
1

strangler airs I j
For late night viewing the best bets are ·Christopher George and wife Lynda Day , George's A Beautiful KUling tomorrow 
~ 
night at ten thirty on ABC and Sitting Target 

despite pressure l
Wednesday night on CBS at ten thirty, with Oliver Reed and Jill St. John in a somewhat
art ferranti 
violent tale concerning a prison break. i As with the season in general, crime The Night They Raided Minskies female leads in dramatic series (the only Martin Luther King is saluted that same 
movies lead this week's batch of films and pren1ieres Saturday on 16 at eight. This one to date was "Honey West" with Ann night over on ABC at ten thirty and Thur­
those that are offered are generally pretty hilarious burlesque comedy was filmed in Francis). For instance, there was once a sday Dick Cavett has Muhammed Ali and ! 
good. The lead off film is The Boston only three weeks and just sort of happened. script of the original "Star Trek" that had Joe Frazier as guests.Strangler to be televised Sunday on ABC at Jason Robards, Jr., Bert Lahr (the famous the female crew members take over the ship seven-thirty. With Tony Curtis as the cowardly lion), and Britt Ekland star in this because something happened to the men. 
***** 

deranged plumber Albert DeSalvo (recently farce of the twenties and prohibition. It may killed in prison) and a mustachioed Henry bring back memories to some of Nickies last Fonda as his relentless pursuer, the film March 29. chronicles the mass murders of over a 
***** 
decade ago of thirteen women. On the whole, an excellent film that fortunately On the other side of the spectrum, the omits a documentary style, this film does trashy and badly acted Valley of the Dolls have a few bad moments. It is interesting to makes its third go around Thursday of 22 at note that ABC delayed the showibg of this eight. Despite an excellent cast, this film from Octomer due to public pressure .. Jacqueline Susann adaptation lacks any After Fuzz! was shown, bums and hoboes semblance of intelligence, skill, and art. It were torched in Miami, Detroit, Boston, and is a terrible movie. Of course, on TV it gets New York to name a few the following week. high ratings. A little higher on the bad 
One of the subplots of Fuzz! had been that of movie scale (now having gone from lousy to setting fire to derelicts. Remembering that dull), Burt Reynolds and Susan Clark star in skyjackings followed in whatever city Rod Skullduggery tonight at eight on ABC. Its Serling's The Doomsday Flight was shown plot concerns the typical anthropological years ago and that a few "Hawaii Five-0" team's efforts to find the missing link episodes have led to sniping incidents, ABC (typical for movies, that is) and who is wisely decided to show another film. So it is attacked by the furry little fellows instead. reasonable to assume that The Boston Skip it in favor of Rabbit, Run airing directly Strangler will be edited for TV more than is opposite tonight on 16. James Caan stars as normal for a film to be. a man having marital problems (a mistress 
and at the same time his wife becoming***** pregnant( and turning to bOOze. It is not a Telly Savalas stars in the pilot for his happy film but it proves that Caan is one of series "Kojak" Friday on 22 at seven-thirty the better "new" actors about. Also in the in Kojak and the Marcus-Nelson Murders cast are Carrie Snodgress (Diary of a Mad (originally titled The Marcus-Nelson Housewife), Jack Albertson(The Subject 
Murders only). Also based on a true story in Was Roses), Arthur Hill ("Owen Mar­New York of 1963, this made-for-TV film shall"), and Anjanette Comer as the excels as it engrosses the viewer when a boy mistress. It was filmed totally in Reading, confesses to the murders he did not actually Pa. commit. It enrages the viewer when Kojak is frustrated by the police echelons in his ***** trying to save him. An excellent cast and Now we come to the new made-for-TV the city's backdrop add force to the script. films. Tomorrow night Get Christie Love! It will be shown in one two and a half hour premieres with Tereasa Graves in the title segment having been edited from its role as a cop after a narcotics ring (yawn). original three hours. It is probably the best She is reared in the martial arts and beats 
made-for-TV film I have ever seen as far as up her share of mobsters. A series pilot, I do plot, acting, and drama go. not give it much hope since TV frowns on 
what really happened •1n dallas? 
a review by bill murphy 
Sometimes a movie comes along in which short space of time as Oswald was supposed the quality of the acting or costume design to have done. were really never meant to receive rave There are also many other unexplained reviews. Such a movie is Executive Action. facts which many of us were too young to 
The movie's storyline is based on several even be concerned with in 1963. Why was pieces of evidence which the Warren Jack Ruby allowed into police headquarters Commission wasn't able to credibly refute. while Oswald was being transferred? Why 
was no record ever kept of Oswald's in­The immediate and basic plot is that a terregation? Who would want to doctor a group of businessmen arrange the picture showing Oswald in his 
assassination of President Kennedy for backyard holding the murder weapon '1 Why several political-economic reasons. They did all the phones in Washington go dead arrange for a team of assassins to use just after the assassination? Why did a triangulated riflefire to kill JFK in Dealey valuable code book disappear stopping the Plaza in Dallas. This part of the story members of the Cabinet from contacting comes from three pieces of evidence. First, Washington while on a plane to Japan? Why the original motorcade route was changed did Oswald declare publicly that he was 
by the local chamber of commerce to go being framed? How could two extra Secret through Dealey Plaza, possibly suggesting Service agents be present but unaccounted some big business pressure. Secondly, for in Dealey Plaza'1 
there were eyewitness accounts suggesting The final statement of the film is possible 
more than one gunman but the Warren the most amazing of all: report passed over these. They did so "In the three year period which followed the because a doctor stated that all the bullets murder of President Kennedy and Lee 
entered the president from the same angle. Harvey Oswald, eighteen material wit­The third piece of evidence, however, is that nesses died -six by gunfire, three in motor the same doctor later stated that there was accidents, two by suicide, one from a cut actually no way he could be sure of all the throat, one from a karate chop to the neck, bullets' angles of entry because of the ex­three from heart attacks and two from tensive damage of JFK's wounds. natural causes." 
This· screenplay made me do something 
Several other factors enter here to give I've never done before.. I paid attention to credence to this theory. The physical setup the credits to find out who the author was. A of Dealey Plaza is such that the President's man named Mark Lane is responsible for car would have passed underneath a tree this: all over South Bend that evening during the time Oswald would have fired, people were talking, people were thinking, blocking his sight. It has also been proven people were doubting, people were affected. by firearn1 experts that no one man could U you want to be affected, I highly get off that many accurate shots in such a recommend Executive Action. 
The NBC censors canned the whole idea. As Sports and Specials: The Notre Damemuch as TV may voice approval, it will not Basketball Team will travel to a revenge­as yet bend to the whims of women's lib. 
crazed UCLA and play next Saturday at ten On Wednesday at seven Andy Griffith thirty in the evening. It will be telecast live plays a cruel employer who more or less by TVS on 16. Jacques Cousteau has a coerces his workers to join him in a special tonight at seven on 28 called "The 
motorcycle endurance test in Pray for the Flight of Penguins." Jack Benny's special Wildcats. William Shatner, Robert Reed, 
Thursday at seven on 16 has George Burns, and Marjoe Gortner (in the "Kojak" movie Redd Foxx, Johnny Carson, and Dinah 
too) also star in this Deliverance-esque film. Shore as guests. And Miss Shore's most An hour later on 16 Robert Foxworth stars 
celebrated beau Burt Reynolds guests on in another pilot entitled The Questor Tapes the Bob Hope special immediately following
about an android who searches for his Benny on 16. Dionne Warwicke and Dyancreator. Created by "Star Trek" overseer 
Cannon add the female spice to the show. 
Gene Roddenberry and "Star Trek" producer Gene Coon, it may seem like Trivia Questions: I have two questions
another "Six Million Dollar Man" but it does this week. The first was contributed by a 
have the different premise that the hero of fellow trivia person in New Orleans who the show is completely not human (which 
wishes to be called Ploz and the second is 
would lend to irony if this show made its way one of mine. (1) What was the first spoken onto the fall schedule and Get Christie Love! line in The Wizard of Oz movie? (2) What did not>. were the last two lines in the film King Kong?
***** 
The final network film of the week is the "liJUOllSULIV lla<IOlJ: h:q UallodS "'lSBaQ "ABC Suspense Movie" Heatwave Saturday atp paffilll1lql h:lneaq seA\ n "lU!q paqS!U!J at seven thirty which has Ben Murphy and l1ltn sauetd atp l,ose/a\ n.. (Z) · h:tpoJoa Bonnie Bedelia as a young couple escaping a AQ UallodS ui.OlOJ. S,aJaltA\, (1) : s.Ja/a\SUV 
joni mitchell tonight 
a preview by fred grover 
Joni Mitchell. Ever sensitive to the un­Joni Mitchell improves in musical and derlying currents of life; ever reaching into lyrical sophistication. Her latest, "Court the soul, a surgeon of the spirit; ever and Spark" has not been released as of yet, plucking with incredible honesty at the and I get this feeling that her record untouched strings; ever accounting for the company is holding out until the price in­
high price one pays in becoming real; crease is in effect (Ah! Capitalism!). linkmg in one sweeping image the deeper There are two elements in each album pains and the elusive beauties of life; which consistently show freshness and capturing and exhibiting the new visions, vitality in Joni's musical directions, her the new realizations. grasp of complex harmonies and her ability 
I am forever thankful that there are poets to produce beautiful and rich arrangements. and lyricists of Joni Mitchell's caliber. On For The Roses, the treatments of There are not many, but then mobs get to be "Cold Blue Steel and Sweet Fire" and cumbersome when engaged in delicacies. "Judgment of The Moon and the Stars" are At the discovery of her songs, one finds not superb. only extraordinary insights and stunning The subjects for her lyrics come from the images, but words which !}ave been given people and scenes which are encountered in their deserved music. Through her music her life. They range from the sterility of one experiences a reawakening of the record company personnel "For the Roses" essence of poetry: the music of the earth. to intensely personal portraits ("Last Time 
She has authored many lyrics which are I Saw Richard") to unique visions of the easily recognized but not always connected world ("Banquet"). Every song is infused with her. "I've looked at love from both with inescapable honesty, not the kind sides now-both win and lose and still which reaches you with a harsh and somehow-it's love's illusions I recall-I abrasive quality, but the kind which touches really don't know love at all." "Both Sides something inside. The attack comes from Now" has been sung by everyone from within the fortress. Frank Sinatra to Judy Collins. "And I I came across a letter to Rolling Stone, dreamed I saw the bomber jet planes-flying published in March, 1973, which sun1med up above in the sky-turning into butterflies­well the quality of Joni Mitchell's lyrics. It above our Nation." "Woodstock", a sort of read: "One of Dostoevsky's more anthem for that lost venture into the garden, fascinating characters, Ivan in "The was electrified by Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Brothers Karamazov", has not a little in Young. She W!Ote what is probably the most common with Joni. His very intellectuality beautiful and, haunting chorus of any song and complexity became a hindrance to his I've ever heard: "And the seasons-they go peace of mind, as he tried to bridge the gap 'round and'round-and the painted ponies go between feeling and logic, and he com­up and down-we're captured on a carousel plained 'The stupider one is, the clearer one of time-we can't return, we can only look sees. Stupidity is artless and to the point. I behind from where we came-and go'round would give away all this super-stellar life, and 'round and 'round-in the circle game." all the ranks and honors, simply to be "The Circle Game" is another song which transformed into a merchant's wife, has been recorded by many. weighing 18 stone, wetting candles before 
Only a few songs sung by Joni Mitchell icons.' Joni describes the same wistful have ever made "the charts" (the curse of fantasy in "Barangrill": The three the music industry). Last summer "You waitresses live without an awareness of Tum Me On, I'm A Radio" made it wor­life's ironic complexities, and are "none of thwhile to bring a traqsistor to the beach.. the crazy you get from too much choice.'' Recently a song from her latest album, But Joni knows such bliss is illusion; "You "Raised on Robbery", complete with An­think she's, enlightened ...it's just a trick on drews Sisters ham1ony at the opening and you, her mirrors and your .will.'' rousing rock and roll at the closing, was There are still many good seats available, getting , a good deal of airplay on FM at the Student Union ticket office in the radio. Fiesta Ballroom of LaFortune and at the 
Fortunately, her albums have enjoyed A.C.C. Doyourselfafavor. Go to the A.C.C. greater success. With each new release, tonight and see Joni Mitchell. 


.~.~-·... \t ~ .'<< .~>: ·.........'~..,.'..',. 
Monday, January 21, 1974
6 
Party offence appealed by Sorin students 
(Continued from page 3) 
Before the party, the three students notified DiPietro that they were to have a party in which an overflow might occur, but that they would attempt to control it. 
In tests 

Students karate rank 
During the Notre Dame Karate 
Club's first cycle of testing this 
month,many NDstuderits received 
their first rank in the art of Tae 
Kwon Do-Chung Do Kwan, the 
original Korean Karate. The 
testing was conducted at the In­
diana Headquarters of the 
American Branch of Tae Kwon Do­
Chung Do Kwan by Edward B. 
Sell, a 6th degree black belt and the 
president of the American Branch. 
Frank Calandrino, Richard 
Saville, Mary O'Donnel, Susan 
Blount, Susan Leonard, Robert 
Leonard, Patricia Quan, Daniel 
Mayo, Glenn Cover, Stephen 
Judge, Robert Boyd, William 
Dwyer, William Frederking, 
Philip Hawley, David Zusi, Gerald 
Little, Vicki Morris, Adelina 
Manero, Stefanie Seldon, and 
Josefa Smith successfully tested 
for the advanced white belt rank. 
Timothy Richardson, John 
Peloquin, and Thomas O'connor 
received the rank of green belt 
(3rd belt) and Gregg White and 
George Alvisio were awarded the 
rank of advanced green belt. 
Michael Lilienthal received the 
brown belt. 
Karate classes are held every 
Tuesday and Thursday at 6:00 P. 
M. in the ACC, according to Mr. Raymond L. Sell, a 3rd degree black belt and bronze medal winner in the 1973 World Tae Kwon Do Championships in Seoul, Korea. 
Anyone interested in the art should come to a free demon­stration of the Karate club and lecture Wednesday, January 23, at 
6: 30 in the La Fortune Ballroom (second floor). Any questions pertaining to the Martial Arts, Karate, Judo, and Kung Fu, will be answered and information and 
applications for. the ND Karate Club will be given out. Notre Dame students can enroll in the club by attending this lecture, one of the workout sessions, or by contacting one of the present members. The dues are $35 per semester. 
They also notified Zang. The The complaint reads that the problem is that according to the students were "so lacking in in­complaint the students mentioned tegrity as to say one thing and do a smaller crowd in their another, to pretend to understand preparations that the one which and promise to comply with actually showed up. University standards, yet act in a 
II 
~==========~--~====~-­
Mr. Raymond Sell, head instructor of the NO Karate Club, executes a side kick to assistant instructor Mr. Rand Merling, 2nd degree black belt. 
WELCOME BACK NATIONAL CHAMPS! 

Nickie's 
~********•







i#l a
* *
* *
* *
* *
*********• 
Invites "y'all" to celebrate the busting of "the Bear" and the taming of the Bruins with a week of specials 
111111111111111111111111" 111111111"'111111111HHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOIIIIIIII11111111111111111111111' 
Monday Nite 


Drink or Drown 
Y2 priced mixed drinks 30~ shots 8-l 0 p.m. Qld Milwaukee 40~ pint all nite 
way that ·belies the truth of their words.'' However, Macheca stated, "I feel it was their intention to have a private party but things escalated." 
The complaint was signed by the Sorin Hall staff, but as DiPietro stated, "the complaint, as far as I was concerned, was just stating a technical violation of the rule prohibiting people from drinking in the halls. The sentence is ex­cessive," referring to the student's original denial of attendence at athletic events. 
"It seems to me that the word of one person is being taken over everybody elses. Our R.A. and hall president disagreed with the complaint," said Payne. 
Oberhardt added that "at no' 
time were we confronted with pir accuser Zang. That right is stated in the handbook, and we weren't granted it. That is only one out of seven rights of a total of 16 student rights in disciplinary action that we failed to see." 
The same night this party was held a second allegedly out of hand party was being hosted by Sorin Hall student Mike Bonnifer. Bonnifer decided to go before the Judicial Bo ard, his case being heard December 14 and 16. He stated "I was found guilty of violating University rules con­cerning alcoholic beverages. I'm on social probation, and I have to organize and throw a hall party." 

-Athletic and 
Convocation Center


NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices: 
Bleachers __________ $3.50 

NOTRE DAME, A. C. C. Mon. · Sot. 9 to 5 
Lower Arena ________ $4.50 
Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall 
Main Fllor __________ $5.50 
St Joseph Bank -and branches
Loge ______________ $5.50 
first Bank -Main office only
Platform ___________ $5.50 
Elkhart Truth 

FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. J. Geils Band. Send to J. Geils Band Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 


TONIGHT 
thru Thursday Night after 9:00pm. 
Anyone and everyone is invited to THE OBSERVER 
Open House, tonilght thru Thursday after 9 :00 pm. You may iust be interested in how the paper is put out, or you may want to ioin up. Either way, stop in! 
Also: Full staff meeting tomorrow at 7':00 pm. Staff yearbook picture before meeting at 6:30 pm. 
J~i.···;·. ' 

Monday, January 21, 1974 the observer 
I •

' ...'.,. ( '\• ~·.) ~ .'', ) . 
~ \ I • 

.. 


Scott: 'Let it all hang out' 
WASHINGTON <UPI>--8enate Republican Leader Hugh Scott said Sunday he has some in­formation on which President Nixon could be "exculpated en­tirely" or wrongdoing in the Watergate affair. He urged Nixon to "let it all hang out." 
But Scott, who met with the President Friday at the White House, said he has been unable to "break through the shell down there of all his advisers who feel differently about it, who feel that the President no longer needs to make some of these replies. 
"I have found nothing that in­dicates any guilt on the part of the President of a nature that would be impeachable," the Pennsylvania Republican said. "But I think they'd help themselves if they told the public some of the things that I know." 
Asked why the White House has not made such information public, Scott said: "God knows. I don't know. I've tried." 
Scott was interviewed on CBS­TV's Face the Nation. 
" ... The President has a better defense than he's made, and it's very frustrating in trying to get him to make it," Scott said. 
"I have the feeling and in­formation available to me, and I wouldn't want you to misinterpret how complete that is, that would indicate that on specific items the President would be exculpatedentirely." 
On the matter of the missing 18lh minutes from one of the President's crucial Watergate­related tapes, Scott said: 
"I can say quickly that I have advised the President to let it all hang out. I did advise him on Friday that as to this erasure, I hope the FBI would discover who did it and that he would authorize a complete and thorough in­vestigation of everybody who could have had anything to do with it. 
"I have had some information which is not yet public which is 
Psychology Society organized 
The Psychology Society has recently been formed at Notre Dame .In the past,there has been a lack of undergraduate in­volvement in the activities of the Psychology Department. This has been due to the absence of a vehicle for organizing and chan­neling student interest. The purpose of the Society is to provide a means through which those undergraduates interested in, or majoring in psychology can pursue their interests in an organized way. The Society hopes to help provide for the personal, social, educational, and career needs of these students. 
In order to achieve these ob­jectives, the society has been organized with five basic com­mittees: academic, career, governance, advisory, and social. Each committee is headed by a chairman and has one represen­
tative to the main cabinet which 
serves as the governing body of the 
Bowl rerun 
considered 
by Jane Cannon Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame Publicity Director Dick Conklin has announced the possibility of another rebroadcast of the Sugar Bowl game. . 
The national championship game has already been on the air four times. Area television stations WSJV-TV and WNDU-TV have both telecast the game twice. Students who attended the game in New Orleans have expressed a desire to see the replay as many had not yet returned from vacation at the time of the rebroadcasts. 
Don Fuller, general manager of 
WSJV-TV doesn't know if there 
will be a rebroadcast on his 
station. Although there is no 
problem in obtaining the necessary 
permission from ABC and the 
Sugar Bowl Committee, Fuller 
sees a problem of time. It would 
take three hours, uninterrupted by 
commercials, to replay the game, 
and Fuller can't seem to work it 
into an already busy broadcast 
schedule. 
Fuller explained that it would be 
possible to release the tape for a 
close circuit showing in the ACC. 
The problem again, is finding a 
time most convenient for students 
to view the replay. 
On the question of a replay on 
WNDU-TV, the University owned 
station, Mr. O'Hagen, vice­
president, stated, "I don't know 
anything about it. There's none 
scheduled on our station. There 
may be one scheduled on WSJV." 
organization. The society has one undergraduate representative to the main cabinet which serves as the governing body of the organization. 
The society has one un­dergraduate representative to the psychology department faculty meetings who will provide a student voice in faculty meetings decisions and policy making. This representative will be the coor­dinator of the main cabinet although he is not allowed to vote in faculty meetings. 
· The Society is also sponsoring an election for a second student representative. This represen­taative need not be a member of the society. He must, however, be a psychology major (declared or intended). His duties are primarily the same as the other representatives except he is allowed to vote on issues presented at the faculty meetings. 
For those interested in this 
WANTED 
MOTORCYCLE AC­CESSORIES: Responsible person with mechanical background to run motorcycle accessories dept. Great chance to learn retail mer­chandising and display. Hours to suit class schedule. Apply to manager, Mr. h. Honda, 50715 US 31 N. 
Experienced typist would like typing to do at home. 291-3351. 
Want used electric typewriter. Call 6988. 
Really need 2 GA UCLA tix. Please. Call Evelyn 6956. 
FOR SALE 
BeauIleu Super 8 movie camera, BAIA viewer and Eumig spl leer, $600. 256-0701 or 259-8676. 
DESK: 3 drawer 43x20x29h, formlea top and sides, $10. Can deliver. Also twin size folding bed frame and springs, $5. Ph 234-9386 eveninos. 
Good tickets for the Friday, Feb. a performance of "Grease" at Morris Civic are now available at the Student Union Ticket Office, 

enormously frustrating to me because it seems to exculpate the President, but I cannot break through the shell down there ... " 
Cooney named new SMC editor 
Pattie Cooney, a St. Mary's junior from Chicago, has been appointed to the position of St. Mary's Editor for The Observer. 
Cooney has served as a reporter ;:========================~~==~..:.~
and a copy editor since beginning to work with the newspaper. 
Cooney is replacing Maria Gallagher, a St. Mary's senior from Delaware City, Delaware. Gallagher will become an Associate Editor joining Rod Braye and Marlene Zloza in that capacity. Both Cooney and Gallagher will be members of the Editorial Board. 
held on Thursday, January 24th in room 217 of the psychology building at 7:00p.m. Attendance of this meeting is essential since details of the election procedure will be discussed. 
On the following Monday, January 28th another meeting will be held at the same time and place during which the candidates will present themselves to all psych majors interested in attending. Following the meeting a primary election will be held in which two candidates for the office will be 
selected. On Friday,-February 1st a 
general election will be held through which the voting representative will be chosen. 
position, there will be a meeting members will be discussed. 
NO-SMC THEATRE ANNOUNCES 
TRYOUTS 
for Pinter's 


THE HOMECOMING 
Jan. 21 and 22, 7 pm  Callbacks, Jan 23, 7pm  
Washington Hall  Washington Hall  
OPEN  TO  ALL  ND-SMC  STUDENTS  

(Note: Please wear clothing !appropriate for physica I exercise ) 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
all are urged to vote. 
All Psychology Society members are requested to come to the meeting on January 24th and bring any unpaid dues. Details con­cerning the upcoming party for 
open daily 1-5 p.m. 

Marantz 2215 $175. Call 1480. 
NOTICES 

Trib subscriptions call Henry 8851. 
Backpackers, Rock Climbers and outdoor folk interested in Spring expedition to Linville Gorge Wilderness (N.C.) or other primitive area, and subsequent summer outings, join N D Backpackers and Climbers. Enthusiasm required -experience can be had later. Tuesday, 9:30pm 2C LaFortune. 
Found 1973 Tinley Park calss ring near Flanner. Initials inside. Call 1521. 
PERSONALS 

Dear Kathi, Happy Birthday and we found your glove, Hope 
next  year  you  enjoy  the  Pitt  
game.  Sgt.  Jim  Beam,  Pitt  
Police Dept.  

All ~Cllra~(lips)IWI.JIIdt A.-BP) 

We)ave you. Ken and George. 
SMC ring lost last semester. Initials MCG '74. Contact Maria 4027. 

way to buy the insurance you need but may feel you can't afford. 
further information· catt: 

Talk to: · Bob Roemer

Bob Roemer 
Class of '73 

The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York 
M0NY
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 




HELP II 
•••We need YOU to helD build MARDI GRAS booth 
Carnival Construction runs from Tues. 22 to Tues. 29, 7-12pm 
and 1-12 Sat. and Sun. at Stepan Center 
1

P ease come ­d h d · h 1 I 
an ave a goo tJme e ping. 
Contact hall chairmen for details 
Both of these elections are open to 1JIRAIIIR•nnmmifiiimi'imiiiiiimiiiii•IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIADI~·!II•Iiiliiiiifi
all psychology undergraduates and • 

No. 1 Celebration TODAY 
Starts this afternoon at Jpm and continues on into the night 
* Beer 25' 
* Mixe d drinks 50' 
•
*Liv mUSIC 
*No cover charge 
*Many team members will be there. 

------~--------------------~ 
.. 8 the observer Monday, January 21, 1974 
Irish icers split with No. 1 Tech 
by Jo~n Fineran 

Michi'gan Tech was made painfully aware that it doesn't pay to be ranked number-one in the nation and have to play Notre Dame. The Huskies lost, 7-1, Friday evening, and if their top ranking was tarnished by the score, it certainly was rebuffed Saturday evening as they defeated the Irish, 7-5. 
The split catipulted the Huskies into a first-place tie with Denver in the WCHA while the Irish remained in seventh place. However, only 12 points separate the league's 10 teams as both Duluth and North Dakota fashioned sweeps over Denver and Colorado College. 
"Friday night was a real satisfying win for us," Notre Dame's Lefty Sm-ith said. "Saturday, however, we played very poor defensively. 
"They may have had more shots Friday, but we got the good breaks and created them through good hustle." 
Indeed, the Irish did hustle on 
Friday night, and the hustle of 
Notre Dame was evident most 
notably in the play of reserve 
center, senior Mike Tardani. 
The 5-8 Muskegon, Michigan native is more noted for his thrilling work on Notre Dame's shorthanded team. However, with Brian Walsh out with an injury, Smith used Tardani between fresh­men Clark Hamilton and Alex Pirus. 
The substitution immediately 
paid dividends as Steve Curry scored into an empty net after Tardaniand Pirus had succeeded to fake Tech goalie, Rick Quance, out of position. Pirus got another first period goal which counterbalanced 
Mike Usitalo's goal for Tech. 
The Irish added two goals in the 
second period for a 4-1lead. First, 
Larry Israelson somehow 
shovelled the puck behind Quance 
from a bad angle at 4:10, and next, 
Ray DeLorenzi scored on the 
powerplay at 8:55. 
However, at 10:06, while skating 
on his regular shift, Tardani was 
hit by a s!apshot in the head. As he into a wide-open net at 19:34 for a 5­2 Tech advantage, but Ray DeLorenzi, with a beautiful feed from Israelson, forced it under Quance with five seconds left in the period for a 5-3 second stanza score. 
Mike Usitalo upped it to 6-3 as he wasunguarded in the slot at 2:45, but Steve Curry, on the powerplay, and Ian Williams scored within 18 seconds to bring the score to 6-5 with 4:16left. 
Notre Dame came alive, and almost tied the score when Pat Conroy just missed with a slap­shot. It was another defensive lapse, however, which gave the Huskies the final goal of the game at 17:49. 
Lorne Stamler was left un­checked in front and, after taking a quick feed from Bill Steele, fired the puck past Kronbholm. The self-disgust of the Irish players was quite apparent, especially in the face of Tardani. Although Smith pulled Kronholm for the sixth attacker, it took two brilliant saves by DeLorenzi in the Irish crease to avert another Huskie goal. 
Tech coach John Macinnes joked before Friday's contest that the Irish, now 9-12-1 overall, were number one. "Notre Dame beat and tied us on our ice, so that makes them No. 1. Right?" 
Saturday, however, Macinnes played superbly, making 44 saves, easily could have prevented. put the disappointing season for many of them brilliant, 16 more Jim Murray put Michigan Tech the Irish into proper perspective. than the Tech netminder. ahead 1-0 at 2:58 when his shot "If it wasn't for us, I think Notre 
Afterwards, Irish defenseman skipped past Kronholm. Graham Dame would be in the cellar." Steve Curry said, "We played well Wise then took the puck unguarded Macinnes was joking, of course, in the Denver series, but we didn't on left wing from Paul Jensen and when he said this, but no words win and our confidence was Steve Jessee to make it 2-0 at 9:11. could have better described this shaken. It was important that we Mark Olive made it 2-1 for the Irish wild season in the WCHA. Notre win as well as play well." when his first career goal deflected Dame will be unable to improve its 
His fellow tri-captain, defen­past Quance into the net at 14:27 league standing of 7-IQ-1 this week seman Ric Schafer, added, "Ric Steve Jensen made it 3-1 at 2:48 as Bowling Green, a member ofthe Schafer, added, "This is as close of the second when he deflected the CCHA, will play a home-and-home to our potential as we've come all puck past Kronholm. The goal series with the Irish. year. We've been playing well might have been averted if the Still, the Irish can make the top since New Year's, and tonight was Irish defense had cleared out the four in the WCHA, but they need indicative of what we are capable area in front of Kronholm. A goal sweeps at North Dakota, Min­of doing as individual players as off Mike Zuke's chest got past nesota and Wisconsin and home well as a team." Kronholm at 16:02 to make it 4-1. against Michigan and Michigan 
Saturday night, though, odd Larry Israelson made it 4-2 at State in order to do this. It is a goals did the Irish in. Granted, 16:40 only 38 second after Zuke's tough spot to be in, but anything Notre Dame had a few, but Tech goal, when he tipped a loose puck can still happen for Notre Dame as scored five goals which the Irish home. Bill Steele scored a goal this odd WCHA season continues. 
Dwight Clay's shot ends Bruin streak 
and in our coach."' contain the slender junior, so
(Continued from page 1) 
This time Shumate's faith did Brokaw gave the ball away him­per cent shooting effort in the first pay off. The big junior scored over self--he passed it to Clay who was half." Walton just 15 seconds after play all alone at the right baseline, and 
The ND players agreed with resumed to pull ND within nine, "The Iceman" scored from the their coach's decision at halftime, then stole the ensuing inbounds corner with 29 seconds remaining. and made it stand up during the pass and soloed down the lane for 
"They were quick to sag on Garyfinal 20 minutes of play. the lay-in which made it a seven because he had the hot hand,"
"Really," said Billy Paterno, point game. 
offered Clay, so he just passed it "the halftime score gave us in­Adrian Dantley, a high school to the corner. When it came I was 
centive. We knew they couldn't do sophomore when UCLA's 88-game open and I knew we had to have it. 
that (shoot 70 per cent) two halves streak began, followed Shumate's 
So I just concentrated on the shot,in a row." four-point burst with a steal and and thankfully I made it. I wanted 
"We weren't all that intensive in score drive which cut the Bruin 
that shot badder than anything­the first half," echoed Gary spread to five, 70-65, with 2:22 and now it feels really great, un­
Novak, the only senior on Notre remaining. 
believable. 

Dame's starting team. "But even Then Brokaw and Clay took "But I didn't think I'd won thethough they shot 70 per cent, we over. Brokaw, who finished as the game when I made it." 
were still in the game." game's high scorer with 25 points, 
Though the Irish kept them­pitched in a jump shot from the The Bruins nearly made Clay's selves in the game duri}lg the corner to make it 7o-67, and, after doubts legitimate ones. On an entire second half, they never led UCLA's Dave Meyers had missed inbounds play under the Irish until the final half-minute of play. a shot from inside the lane, scored basket with six seconds showing on The Bruins, on the other hand, from the top of the key to make it a the clock, the Bruins went im­could never quite outdistance one-point game, 7o-69, with 1:11 mediately to Walton, who was off Phelps' pesky, determined team. remaining. the mark with a lo-foot turn­
UCLA came close to putting the "Anyone can have a big scoring around. UCLA then had three game away on several occasions. day," said Brokaw, "and the open attempts at a follow-up basket The Walton Gang led by ten (56-46) shots were there for me the whole before Shumate corralled the with 9:19 left, and then posted its game. We weren't counting on any rebound. largest margin of the second half, one player having a big scoring 
"At the time out," said Digger,11 (70-59) with only 3:22 left to day today. We thought we just had "we knew they were going toplay. But in each instance the Irish to play our own game and avoid Walton. But we just installed ourrefused to fold. niental mistakes." 
normal man-to-man press and told Tommy Curtis' running one­But it was a mental mistake our boys to play solid defense. If
bander· from the right baseline which set Dwight Clay up for his they had scored, we would havepadded the UCLA lead to 11, and game-winning shot. A charging called another time-out."
Phelps immediately called a time­foul assessed against UCLA's But the Irish, now 10-0, never hadout and went to his press. Keith Wilkes gave the bail to the to use that final time-out.
"The coach just told us to 'play,"' Irish with 45 seconds remaining, said Shumate, as he recalled the and Ray . Martin, once he'd They were able instead, to watch eleventh-hour strategy session. crossed the time line, gave the ball time run out on the Bruins-and on "We knew we could come back, to Brokaw. college basketball's longest con­because we had faith in ourselves The Bruin defense sagged to secutive-win string. 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 

fell to ice, the first of two capacity crowds of 4,287 sat stunned and Smith raced from the Irish bench. Tardani left the ice to take 11 stiches to close his split earlobe, but returned to the ice in the third period. 
Ian Williams scored at 14:08, taking a pass from Bill Nyrop and Eddie Bumbacco down the slot. Willy waited until Quance com­mitted himself to a fake, and then slid the puck into the vacated net for a 5-1 Irish lead. 
Israelson and Pirus added their second goals of the game in the final session, one which the Irish completely dominated. 
Quance looked unsure most of the evening, but Mark Kronholm 





