On The Inside 
Coup Report 
... page 3 Manhattan-sized air­port . •· • pages 6-7 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 65 Friday, January 25, 1974 
Academic Council in close vote 
Opts for pre-Labor Day start 
by Kurt Heinz Staff Reporter 
By a 30-27 vote, yesterday, the Academic Council voted to stay with a pre-Labor Day start to next years classes. 
The vote followed two hours of debate of a motion that sought to prevent a pre-Labor Day start. The 1974­75 calendar previously published by the administration will go into effect with the fall semester beginning August 28. 
Proponents of the motion were led by Academic Commissioner Chris Nadeau, while Provost Father James Burtchaell led the opposition. Two dozen members of the council spoke during the lengthy debate. 
Afterwards, both Nadeau and Burtchaell agreed that both sides had a fair hearing and that the debate was valuable. 
Student opposition 
In speaking to the council, Nadeau emphasized the widespread student opposition to the pre-Labor Day start as well as the fact that Notre Dame's ac­credidation would not be affected by a semester of less than 72 days. 
Nadeau also pointed out the addition of short semester breaks in his calendar and the potential loss of summer earnings to students. 
Burtchaell argued that eroded short breaks point to the necessity of a long mid-fall break. He said that such a break could not be accomplished without a pre­Labor Day start. 
Burtchaell pointed out that pre-Labor Day starts are now the norm in American colleges. He argued that the goal of 72-75 class days was necessary to prevent a trend away from academic excellence. 
Burtchaell said that no decision would be made on 
the 1975-76 calendar until there is an opportunity to 
evaluate next fall's calendar. 
The group voted to vote by a show of hands, but the tellers had difficulty tabulating the close vote. A paper ballot then rendered the 30-27 decision against the post­Labor Day motion. 
Close vote Nadeau pointed to the close vote as proof that students can force issues at Notre Dame. "We gave it all we had and then some," he said. "If you're committed to den1ocratic action, then you're committed to the result. The closeness of the vote indicates that perhaps it could be changed next year." Student members of the council Judi Offerli, Jim Stevens, John Mazza, and Dennis Ryan helped Nadeau organize opposition to the calendar proposed by Burtchaell. Father Burtchaell did not feel that reconsideration of the calendar was good from an adminstrative view, but admitted that it had to happen in light of the strong student opposition. "The issue was very educational and the council benefitted from the discussion." he said. "Next year we can have a better discussion because we will have experienced it. Today's discussion was biased purely on conjecture. If people aren't satisfied nex+ fall, believe me, we'll know about it." Maintain pass-fail . Buried under the controversy over the calendar was the fact that the council later voted to maintain the present pass-fail system. They rejected a proposal which would have allowed a student to receive an earned letter grade in a course previously designated pass-fail, if the student so requested of the registrar prior to four weeks before the last class day. The council made the present pass-fail system, which had been on an experimental basis, permanent. The student representatives viewed the rejection of the pass-fail reform as a disappointment, but most of 
the post-meeting discussion centered around the defeat 
of the calendar proposal. 
The students expressed concern over faculty ab­
sentees which possibly could have swung the vote. 
John Mazza pointed out that "an administrative member can send a replacement if he can't show up." "Students and faculty members are not allowed to do so if they can't make it," he said. "Either everyone should be allowed to send a substitute or no one should." 
Disappointing outcome Student Body President Dennis <H-Man) Etienne, who joined the students in the Morris Inn after the meeting, was more disappointed in the outcome, but emphasized that the students did every thing they could. "It was a good performance by a group of amateurs against a group of professionals", H-Man commented. "Its disappointing and I'm a little more bitter than they are." The Academic Council made a bad decision and they'll realize it." Mazza noted that faculty and student members represented their constituencies accurately. He felt. that most of the members voted their conscience. "It was even the whole day", said Mazza. "The closeness indicates that there is no consensus in sup­port of the calendar. Back in October it seemed as though there was no way that we could come within three votes of defeating the calendar." Nadeau, who led the fight against the calendar, admitted to being exhausted after the struggle, but took consolation in the strong student mobilization against the calendar. "There are a lot of ifs' that could have changed the result if they went our way," he said. "I don't want to sound like its sour grapes because we got a fair hearing. The closeness shows there is hope for next year:" 
1974-75 AcademiC Calendar 
l...IIIHHUIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIHIIIltHHHIIH....IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIII••III·PI·IIIIItl--llltl-lllll--1111mBJIIIIIMIIII111111111111IHIIIJIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIHUIIImiHIIIIIIIIIDIHIIIIHHIIIIIIIIIII1111111111-IIIll-111,.,18_____ FALL SEMESTER 1974 SPRING SEMESTER 1975 
Aug. 24-26  Sat. thru Mon.  Orientation and Counselling for new students.  Jan. 13  Monday  Orientation for new students.  
Aug. 27  Tuesday  Registration for all students.  Jan. 14  Tuesday  Registration Day.  
Aug. 28  Wednesday  Classes begin at 8:00a.m.  Jan. 15  Wednesday  Classes begin at 8:00 a.m.  
Sept. 1  Sunday  Formal  opening  of  the  school  year  with  Jan. 21  Tuesday  Latest date for all class changes.  
Concelebrated Mass. (Subject to change.)  
Feb. 10-14  Mon. thru Fr.  Enrollment  reservations  for  the  Fall  
Sept. 2  Monday  Labor Day (classes meet).  Semester  1975-76  (Payment  of  ?  fee  
required).  
Sept. 3  Tuesday  Latest ,date for all class changes.  
Oct. 11  Friday  Midsemester  Report of  Deficient  Students.  Feb. 17  Monday  Washington's Birthday (classes meet).  
Oct. 25-Nov. 3  Fri. thru Sun.  Midsemester Holiday begins after last class  Mar. 6  Thursday  Midsemester Reports of Deficient Students.  
on  Friday.  (Note:  Oct.  26  (Miami-home  Mar. 10-19  Mon. thru Wed.  Room reservation for Fall Semester 1975-76.  
game),  Nov.  2  (Navy-away),  Oct.  28  '  
(Veterans Day) & Nov. 1 (All Saints) Included in vacation period.)  Mar. 21  Friday  Easter holiday begins after last class.  
Nov. 4  Monday  Classes resume at 8:00a.m.  Apr. 1  Tuesday  Classes resume at 8:00 a.m.  
Nov. 14-21  Th. thru th.  Advaance Registration for Spring Semester 1974-1975.  Apr. 10-17  Th. thru Th.  Advance Registration for the Fall Semester 1975-76 and for the Summer Session 1975.  
Nov. 27.-Dec. 1  Wed. thru Sun.  Thanskgiving  Holiday  begins  at  noon  on  May 6  Tuesday  Last class day.  
Wednesday.  May 7  Wednesday  Study Day {no examination).  
Dec. 2  Monday  Classes resume at 8:00a.m.  May 8-13  Th. thru tu.  Final  Examinations.  (Grades due 48  hrs.  
Dec. 8  Sunday  Fet'st of the Immaculate Conception (C!asses  after exam  is given.  No Sunday exams.)  
meet Monday, Dec. 9)  May 15  Thursday  Graduating student grades are due.  
Dec. 13  Friday  Last Class Day.  May 17-18  Sat. thru Sun.  Commencement Weekend.  
Dec. 14-15  Sat & Sun  Study  Days (no examinations).  
Dec. 16-20  Mon. thru Fr.  Final Examinations (Grades due 48 hrs. after  
exam  is given).  

-IIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIUUIIIHIIIIIHIIIIRHIHiftiNJniHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIUIIHIIIIIItiiiiiiiiiiiUIHHIIIIIHII11111-IIII.M111111111tiii·I·II·III·FIIIIIIItl.lllltllllllllllllll...llt_____lllll.lti--II···-----·-IIOIIIIIIIU,_.,_.IIIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIfttll 
Friday, January 25, 1974
J. the observer 
warld 
briefs 
\\'.\SIII~GTON <t'PI>--President Nixon sent Congress a special message Thursday revealing that his budget would propose total spending of $7.6 billion ofr education. He called for "advance funding" by spring so that school authorities would be aware of how much federal aid they could receive when classes start the following September. 
Pll:\0!\i PE:\H <UPI>-Twenty-one artillery roundsfired by rebel gunners struck the presidential palace compoiud in the Combodian capitol Thursday, and ignited houses in the southern edge of the city. At least 19 persons were reported killed and 21 others injured. The gunners were thought to have make use of captured American-made 105mm howitzers in carrying out their attack. 

friday 12-1. 2-5, and 7-9 p.m.-art show, ron kovatch, sue friedman and terri tonier, photos, ceramics, drawings and weavings. photo­silk screens and drawings by students, moreau-hammes gallery,free 4 p.m.-radiation chemistry seminar, "possibility of super­conductvity in organic polymers," by dr. janos ladik, technical university of munich, german. sponsored by the radiation lab, conference room of the radiation research bldg, free 
4:30 p.m.-math colloquium, israel n. herstein, topic to be an­nounced. sponsored by the math dept.,computing center, room 226, free 
8 p.m.-bridge, duplicate bridge. everyone welcome, university club, free 
8:15 p.m.-music, "an evening with tevye and golde." spon­sored by the social commision, o'laughlin auditorium, students, $2.00, gen. admission, $3.50 
9:30-1:30 p.m.-coffeehouse, smc coffeehouse reopens. leanne jacques, pete snake, the triad, joe klockenkemper. banana splits $.40, smc dining hall, free 
saturday 12 noon-10·p.m.-car show, "cavalcade of wheels", ace arena and field house, adults $2.50, children under 12$1.00 2-5 and 7-9 p.m.-art show, kovatch, friedman, and tonier, moreau-hammes gallery, free 
3:30 p.m.-()pen house, hon. william h. rehnquist, assoc. justice of the u.s. supreme court meets with university family, law s_chool lounge, free 
aand 10 p.m.-film cinema 74, "the ruling class" "strangers on a train," sponsored by the cac, washington hall engineering auditorium, Sl.OO 
8:15 p.m.-concert, smc concert choir and iusb perform "brah­m's requium.", o'laughlin auditorum, free 
8:30 p.m.-moot court, moot court finals, sponsored by the law school, library auditorium and lounge, free 
9:30-1:30 p.m.-coffeehouse, smc coffeehouse, smc dining hall free 
sunday 9 a.m.-9 p.m.-car show, "cavalcade of wheels", ace 
6:30 p.m.-liturgy, byzantine sunday liturgy, celebrated by fr. robert kerby, holy cross hall chapel 2-5 and 7-9 p.m.-art show, kovatch, friedman, and tonier, moreau-hammes gallery, free 7p.m.-film, "to be a crook," sponsored by the smc french club, 
the liHie theater, free 7 and 9 p.m.-film ; 7 and 9 p.m.-film, "music man," sponsored by the senior class, 
carroll hall, S1.00 

......... 
~ 

MARCEL MARCEAU 
O'LAUGHLIH AUDITORIUM • ST. MARY'S COLLEGE 
T....doy, FEBRUARY 19 • a,oo p.M. 
All Seats Reserved: Main Floor ss.oo, Balcony $4.00 Ticket Information, call NO Cultural Arts Commission-283-3797 
Ticket Sales: CAC Office, 4th Fir. LaFortune Patron Holders ONLY -Jan. 29-31, 1-4pm General Sales -Feb. 1-18, 1-4 pm 
Panel urges energy save 
By Mark Derheimer Staff Reporter 
The University Energy Con­servation Committee ye~terday 
heard a report suggesting the University turn off lights rather than lower temperatures to 
save on· fuel costs . 
William Ganser, Chief Engineer of the Power Plant, told the committee that given Notre Dame's power facilities, reduction of electricity consumption by 5 per cent would save twice as much in fuel costs as would lowering room temperatures by 5 degrees. 
Notre Dame's power plant is 
. «.?W:EB& m :..lii!$ic ~~~~:~ *l:..r.i..m:Ji Umf&d Artists
primarily equipped to produce steam for · · heat, but it also 

produces eledricity as a by­product. In the past the power plant was able to keep up with the growing demand for electricity, but it has reached the point where it is no longer efficient or 


economical to produce additional electricity. · 
co~~ERT THURS. JAN. 31ST ~~~~ 
Mr. Ganser's figures suggest that a reduction of electricity use by "4.28 percent will have twice 

Wishbone Ash the effect on fuel savings as would reducing space temperature by 5 degrees." Thus he recommended 
turning out lights rather than turning off heat 
During the one hour meeting the 
Committee also discussed the fact that the suggested lighting for a 1·oom is 80 foot-candles while many places on campus, such as the library with 140 foot can­dles, have illum ina tion levels higher than necessary. 
The Committee thus decided to launch a publicity campaign to get sutdents, faculty, and staff to save on electricity use. At their next meeting on January 31, the Committee hopes to come up With definite· proposals to recommend to the University community for the saving of electricity. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except 
WITH SPECIAL GUESTS 
vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. 
CLIMAX BLUES BAND
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for Sl per semester (514 per year 1 from The 
TICKETS ON SALE AT BOX-OFFICE 11 TO 5P.M.
Obs~rver Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556. Second class 
(EXCEPT SUN.) ALSO BOOGIE RECORDS 
postage paid, Notre O.me, Ind. 
ALL SEATS RESERVED S5.00 ADV., S5.50 DAY OF SHOW
46556. 



PmR O'TOOLE 
AlASTAIR SIM 
ARTHUR LOWE

"Peter O'Toole -a performance of . such intensity that it 1n will haunt memory. O'Toole begins THE where other 

RULING CLASS 
actors stop. He is funny, disturbing, Today 
finally devastating!" 

8md 10p.m. -Washington Hall 
-Jay Cocks, Time Magazine Admission $1.00 
Friday, January 25, 1974 the observer 
Discipline report vague 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
Thii is the Secoad iD a series of articles by The tObserv~ examiniDg in depth each ~ cOIIIildered by the Committee OR Oniverslty Priorities. 
Today's article deals wltb tbe section an academic dbcipHaes of the COUP report, tbe task force report. that coQtributed to it, an"d tbe differences betwee~~ tbe two reports 

When the Committee on Academic Priorities began its work in the fall of 1972, it formed four task forces to help facilitate research. Each of the four task forces published their recom­mendations in April of 1973 in advance of the final COUP report. 
A comparison of the Academic Disciplines task force report with section on acaden1ic disciplines In the final COUP report shows that the task · force made specific recommendations concer:ning variOU£ disciplines, whereas the COUP committee made broader more general recommendations in the area of academic disciplines. 
The task force first established seven general guidelines by which. a discipline could be discussed as appropriate to Notre Dame. They were: Public Demand, Social Concern, Intellectuality, Tradition, Economy, Resource Concentration and Liberality. 
With these principles as guides, the task force made 13 specific recommendations. Among them were: the restructuring of some programs, such as in the depart­ment of modern and classical languages; the discontinuation of others, such as the collegiate seminar; and the institution of new areas of study, such as geography. 
In contrast, the COUP com­mittee chose a more general ap­proach in their section on academic disciplines. The final report discussed the need for more interdisciplinary studies, such as in the areas of mathematics and philosophy or economics and history. It cited a need for in­creasing the University's com­mitment to foreign studies programs and practical ex­perience in coordination with classroom studies. 
COUP's final disciplines recommendations are: "That the University recognize that it must apply its reSources in such a way as to increase excellence in all its disciplines, including those which now enjoy academic distinction. That interdisciplinary collaboration in teaching and research be encourages." 
Change of perspective 
Dr. 0. Timothy O'Meara, professor of mathematics and chairman of the Academic Disciplines task force, describes a change of perspective between the task force and COUP committee as a whole. 
"It is my impression that the main committee moved quickly into a broader context than the context of the task force report," O'Meara said. "A lot of what happened in the task force did not happen here, (in the COUP committee as a whole ) but not by sinister design. The task force reports were intended for the assistance of the main com­mittee.'' 

University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell, chairman of COUP and men1ber of the Academic Disciplines task force, comn1ented on the diflerence between the two reports: " .. The fact is that one group went into great. detail and the other did not. In that respect, the two groop& complemented eadl other." 
However, atleastone rnember of 

....the task force, Dr. Nicholas Fiore, associate professor of· mentllurgical engineering, f~lt differently about the change in approach. "l was a little .surprised that the final report was as vague as it was, because we were so specific. We were never given any indication that any or all of our information would be used. However, the assumption of the group was that it 

would be used," Fiore said. 

Fiore was a member of the task force, but not a member of the COUP coillmittee. . ' 
Another member of orily the task force, Dr. Ellen Ryan, assistant prof~r of psychology, saw· the task frirce'S fmdings in a different light . ••n wu never my ex-. pectation that the priorities committee would incorporate our recommendations in any specific sense," Ryan said. 
IIKiependence of report 

What is the status of the' task force report at the present time? O'Meara said, "They are now residing with Fr. Burtchaell where he will channel them through the normal committees. It is our anticipation that he will do this." 
Fr. Burtchaell said that some areas of the report must be dealt with by individual colleges, some by the administration, and some by the Academic Council. He said that he would begin this spring to present the task force's recom­mendations to the appropriate ·bodies.:. 
Fr. Burtchaell went on to comment on the importance of seeing the Academic Disciplines task force report as an in­dependent document. He stated that the data behind the task force's recommendations was more extensive than for any other task force. In addition, he said that 
---.,
it would have taken at least as j · nnich tln1e as'the-taslt force took to make ~r recommendatiolis in l 
()tder·to incorporJte everything in ·· the final· COUP report. · ··"We. must get to the point aroWld here where we trust con1mittees · · and stop doing their work over 
I 
again," Burtcbaell said. · 
Frank Palopoli, graduate student in government and in­ternatjonal studies, and member of the COUP con1mittee as well as the task force, agreed with Burtchaell about the automony of the task force report. 
"The task task force report is in and done. There really wasn't much more to be said," Palopoli said. "I don't think there is any reason to be disappointed. Generally, the task force report stands alone," he added. 
When asked if he was satisfied wiQl the work of. COUP, Fr. Burt­chaell said, ·"Nobody's ever satisfied, but-it's alright. It's not a great, daring doc.ument, In order to have that, you would have to let one person write it." 
O'Meara comm~ted, "I am pleased by the fmal report. I am ; very pleased by. the tdk force . report. We'venever done anything 
1\ke tbiil at Notrt! Dame before. We ' had no ready' referenc:e aDd all had to find our own way. In retrospect, I enjoyed the experience." 
CILA to plan summer projects 
CILA will conduct a meeting and presentation at 7pm, Sunday, January 27, in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Uetails of this summer's project will be discussed. Interested students must attend. 
CILA is presently in its final stages of planning for this sum­mer.Candidatesfor projects will be selected by February 26, with applications due by February. For more information, call Joe Marino at 233-1089 or Mary Beckman at 6766. 
HELP!!! ! 
We need you to help build Mardi Gras booths! Tonight 7·12 at Stepan Center. 
1· 12 Sat & Sun 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No ~otre Dame identification required, just 
ment1on this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
Thru June 15th, 1974. · 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 

it.,. Csfttatal , 
,attt,altr ~-•* 

"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
35 Varieties of Pancakes Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches 
Your Host
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North
.

j (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards 'SO 



PLEASE 

·.·All: Mwcft: Gras r.ttt.­tlck.ets MUST tte· returttetl. NOW. 
GIVE MONEY OR UNSOLD TICKETS TO YOUR SECTION LEADER. 
**TODAY** 
Athletic and

NOTRE DAME 
Convocation Center 

Ticket Prices:
Bleachers __________ $3.50 Lower Arena ________ $4.50 
Mailt Fllor _________ .$5.50 Loge ______________ $5.50 Platform ______ •____ $5.50 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. J. Geils Band. Send to J, Geils Band Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 
Tickets on sale: NOTRE DAME, A, C. C. Mon. · Sot. 9 to 5 Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall Sl Joseph Bank -and branches first Bank -Main office only 
Elkhart Truth 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
lee Gentine Business Manager 

Jerr.y lutkus Dan Barrett
Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 John Kloos EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
Advertising Manager
BUSINESS: 283-7471 Friday, January 25, 1974 
A Bitter Defeat 
It really sounds shallow to say "nice try," but that's all the student body is left with today. Yesterday, the members of the Academic Council made a bad decision and, as usual, the students have been left holdinJ( the bag. 
All the arguments throughout the "calendar crisis" have been hashed out and it appears that the crucial factor has to be that the administration never took the complaints of the students seriously. They seemed to question throughout whether the students really knew what they were talking about.. They failed to realize that the students had the facts and the solid support of their consUtuents. 
The student body is stuck with a calendar that they do not care for. A great many of the faculty also have to live with a calendar that they dislike, but the administration has their promised son, the pre-Labor Day-beginning calendar, the calendar that Burtchaell has attempted to push through for at least the past three years. It seems strange that throughout these years of intense opposition by the students to his calen­dar, Burtchaell never changed his mind that this was what he really wanted. Emphasis should be placed on "he" in this case rather than on what the com­munity around him indicated that they wanted. 
So, the students are stuck for at least one year with the new calendar, until the pre-Labor Day opening will be recon­sidered by the Academic Council mid­way through the 1974-75 school year for implementation during the 1975-76 year. 
Hopefully, when that reconsideration comes up, if the students are lucky, they will have people of the quality of Chris Nedeau, John Mazza, Judi Offerle, Jim Stevens and Dennis Ryan supporting their stance on the council. It was their hard work and dedication which brought about this first reconsideration and the students owe them a vote of thanks along with thanks to the other 25 people who voted with the studen~. 
It is a bitter defeat for .all of the cam­pus. The Editorial Board 

Observer by Mail 
For the second straight year, economic difficulties between The Observer and the St. Mary's student body has forced a change in delivery policies. 
Beginning Monday, The Observer will be delivered to the mail boxes of those St. Mary's students who have paid their $2 circulation fee to the newspaper. 
Presently, around 30 per cent of the SMC students have paic;l their fee. The appropriate number of newspapers were then delivered daily to SMC Dining Hall and understandably, the girls who paid often did not get the paper. In all fairness to the students who have paid, we have found it necessary to go this 
route. Secondly, to cover the costs of delivering The Observer to SMC,1 80 percent participation is required. By delivering to the mail boxes, we are continuing a losing venture, but we are doing so in hopes· that a coldness will spread across the SMC Dining Hall in the absence of The Observer and that the kindly SMC students will reach deep into their purses to pay a measly $2 for the newspaper. SMC students desiring to have The Observer delivered to their mailboxes during the 3 p.m. mail delivery can send their money to The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. -Jerry Lutkus 


Miles Ta Oa••• 

The Vanishing Male Hall 
butch ward 
Notre Dame is now experiencing her fourth semester of coed university life and preparing for her second year of forced off-<:ampus living. 
r • 
And while few administrators seem willing to face the facts, there is a definite connection between the two phenomena. 
Beginning with the fall semester in 1972, women came to the campus of Notre Dame for the first time and took residence in two formerly male dormitories, Walsh and Badin. The total female population numbered approximately 350 women. 
In the spring semester of thatyear, the on-<:ampus population at Notre Dame experienced its first housing shortage scare when figures galore emerged from adminstrative circles concerning the number of students who would be forced to move off-<:ampus. Not until well into the semester was any plan of action announced, and then the Housing Office released quotas that each hall would have to meet in order to make room for incoming freshmen. 
The job of excusing students from the hall was left up to the in­dividual residence dorms. Some students moved out of panic, afraid that delay would leave them stranded outside thhe dorm and unable to acquire adequate housing. Some students stuck it out and found room, somewhere, on campus as rooms appeared. SQme students were spared. And some completely vacated their dorms in order that the female population of Notre Dame might double. 
But all of these students had one thing in common. They were all male. 
In the fall of 1973, the female population of Notre Dame did double, as Farley and Breen Philips became women's dorms. And in the month of January, 1974, plans were announced by the Housing office as to the means by which students would be chosen to leave campus. 
And again, all of those students are men. 
Next fall, the fen1ale population of Notre Dame will reach the 1,000 mark as Lyons becomes the 5th women's residence hall. And again, any shortage in housing will be dealt with by the male population of Notre Dame. 
The purpose of this column is not to create any bad blood between the sexes at DuLac. There are many_reasons why women were finally admitted to Notre Dame, and most them are valid. Women have definitely begun to contribute to both the quality of life here and the quality of the total education experience .. 
No, this column is not directed towards the women who are being spared the threat of forced off-<:ampus living. It is being written for those who believe residence living is a plus at Notre Dame, and would like to include it in every Notre Dame student's education. 
The problem of male residence oR this campus is going to get worse. That's right. It's going to worsen. 
Three years ago, the undergraduate population at Notre Dame was about what it is now. And it is expected that it will stabilize at its present 6,600 mark. Of that figure, about 5,100 students were able to find beds on the campus. And that figure, too, has remained basically constant. 
In other words, 1,500 students have traditionally had to find housing off-<:ampus. And when I first arrived here in 1970, that seemed no problem. But then the women arrived. 
In 1970, approximately 6,600 students were available from which 1,500 had to be found who were willing to move. Next year, five women's halls later, only 5,600 will supply the necessary 1,500. And if the University's Committee on Priorities recommendation is heeded, by 1976, 1,500 females will inhabit the campus, few of whom will contribute to the off-<:ampus population. 
Next spring, the housing shortage will be faced by fifteen halls. That's five less than in 1970. Add five hundred more women to the enrollment, and that's equivalent to taking over one of the Towers. That's equivalent to exempting ten per cent of the on-<:ampus population from the force-off. An additional ten per cent. 
Therefore, in 1976, there could possibly be 5,100 men at Notre Dame 
fighting for 3,600 male beds. And 1,500 women choosing which one of 
1,500 beds would be most comfortable. And this is c~ucation? 
Women have come to Notre Dame to stay. Someday, a female 
tradition will hopefully take hold here, as well as a proud tradition in 
coeducation. But as long ~s Notre Dameexists,the male tradition will 
never be lost,for its history is too long and proud to be forgotten by 
those who come in its wake to make their home here. 
If that male tradition does become lost, it will be the fault of those 
who let it be forced away from the residence halls in which it was bred. 
We need to provide sufficient on-<:ampus housing for the Notre Dame 
male population. 
This University has never been denied when it felt a cause of 
significant worth. And evntually, hopefully soon, she will realize the 
worth of preserving her tradition -on-campus. 
the observer 
Night Editor: AI Rutherford 
Assistant Night Editor: Gary Allietta Layout: Terry Keeney, Bill Brink Copy Editor: Greg Rowinski D;~oy Editors: Ann McCarry, Zenon Bidzinski Pit:tures: Jerome Phillips Typists: Bill Menk, Mike Seidel, Howard Halle Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Joe Abell 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell 
News Editor: Tom Drape Editorial Editor: Butch Ward SMC Editor: Patty Cooney Features Editor: Kathy Schwille Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Wire Editor: Ann McCarry Associate Editors: Marlene Zloza, Rod Braye, Maria Gallagher 

It was all a game we were playing, she and I, as people play charades on winter afternoons. Though apart for many years, we had known each other as children, but we had never been lovers. We were not lovers now, and never could be lovers in this life. All our world together, that afternoon, was. this table, in a restaurant called Act One, high above the streets of Times Square. At four o'clock, we were still lingering over the noonday coffee of our lunch, because there was no place else we could go where we would not lose each other again. Soon, it 
·seemed. <though not really), the stars would come out; and to avoid a sleepless night, we would have to switch from caffeine drinks to Sanka; but still we did not want to say goodbye. It was sad. It was silly. It was unbelievably sweet. It was a musical comedy that Cole Porter should have written tunes for. It was life on the Silver Screen as it might have been played in the Forties by Melvyn Douglas and Irene Dunne. 
At the cocktail counter across the room, I could imagine the waitress saying to the bartender: "They have no place else to go"­-as though we were exiles made homeless by politics or war. She would show him the exorbitant tip we had slipped her as rental fee for our table. 
At the end, when our throats had become sour with heartburn the woman, as female 

act one 
lead, read me lines from Rod McKuen: "Trust me, and I'll do good things for you. 
· Even if to make you happy means to leave you to yourself." My head swam as it might do after too much nipping at the Gallo's. "Darby, Darby," I whispered, because I knew that cocker spaniel trusted me. "Darby, Darby, Darby ... " The name of his pet is what a relevant cleric uses today in place of the Hail, Mary. I, the protagonist, said to the woman: '"I have promises to keep, and miles to go before I sleep."'--which was all the poetry I could remember. She said: "I have promises to keep also," and there was a Frost in her voice I had not noticed before. We both sighed as we considered what it meant to have promises to keep: mine, in the Emerald City of Notre Dame; hers, in the suburbs of Astoria. "I'll never join another book association,'' I snarled. "Nor I, a fruit-of the-month club," she said. We both knew these were not the promises that concerned us the most. At four in the afternoon, there are trains to be caught by women from Astoria who have promises to keep. We walked hand in hand to the elevator. She kept saying, "I will not cry." Later, she wrote me that the tears had frozen on her cheeks as we walked down the city streets together. I had pretended not to notice those 
rev•rend rabert '=lriflin 
tears because I didn't know how, without 
embarrassment, to comfort a woman's 
sadness on the crowded sidewalks of 42nd 
S!J·eet. Besides, I had only a dirty han­
dkerchief which I needed for my cold. 
So we moved across the city blocks to 
Penn Station; and if we hadn't been mature 
adults, we might· have imagined we were 
just a boy and a girl, looking at the world 
through the other's eyes, who discover 
they never want to be alone again. 
When we got to 34th Street, she said: "Now you are walking out of my life, and I shall never see you again. 
l wish to God there were facial muscles I 
could sometimes flex, but in a face made of 
putty, the best I can.do is wink. 
"Never again," I echoed cheerfully, winking. <Actually, we both knew we could arrange something of a reunion in August, if the heartbreak of psoriasis didn't interfere.) 
"Will you write sometimes?" she said. 
"I can't lie to you," I said. "I don't write !etters." 
For a moment, she stood there as though she might begin to quote from Rod McKuen again. "Trust me and I'll do good things for you. Even if to make you happy means to leave you to yourself"-offers like this, I didn't need. 
Like a fearful, trmbling child, I wanted to be spared the Rod, so I grabbed this beautiful stranger and kissed her. I kissed her not with the gentleness of an aging campus minister cherishing coeds; not as a middle-aged man revently greeting the earth-mother types. But with a clumsiness that seemed to me like that of a roughneck farmboy cavorting on a hayride, I bussed her good. 
"Damn you, Rhett Butler," the witty wench said. "Run now, " I said. "Catch your train, and don't look back." 
She started moving through the crowd, then turned and said: "You never told me what I could call you." 
Oh, for God's sake, I thought to myself. Now everyone who heard will think she's a pickup, and she's not a pickup. She only wants a private name to call me by, a nickname that will relieve her of calling me father. 
"You can call me Melvyn," I said, "as in Melvyn Douglas, if I can call you Irene, as in Irene Dunne." 
For a moment, I didn't think she un­derstood. Then she smiled, and I knew that she remembered, and understood how much our lives that afternoon were like those of the celiuloid lovers of the Silver Screen. 
It was only because I could laugh at myself as a matinee idol who always wins at the game of love, that the tears did not freeze upon my own cheeks as I walked the city blocks back to 42nd Street. 

tales from topographic oceans: new yes 
a review by joseph abel/ 

With Tales From Topographic Oceans, the members of Yes tackle their most ambitious project to date: a work four times the size of the impressive "Close to the Edge." And the result is a work, however flawed, that takes on importance through scope that few rock albums have achieved. 
Fans of the more explosive sounds of Fragile and The Yes Album will no doubt be disappointed in the more mellow treatment of material in this work. Likewise, those that appreciated the tension and excitement of the tremendous single build-up and release in the three pieces of Close to the Edge may find the many minor crescendos of Tales unappealing. But as Close is a logical progression from Fragile, so Tales is from its immediate predecessor: the same kind of material, but much more intense, more complex, more aware of its own theme than ever before. 
a staggering theme 

That theme itself is staggering; almost too staggering to handle for the group: the exploration, through the metaphor of music, of the "topographic oceans" of the mind; the subconscious racial history of man. Inspired by the 4-part Shastric Scriptures (if you read liner notes), the work is divided 
into four movements, each describing a part of the search for self through the past and memory. Each movement covers an entire side and, though loosely related to the whole through various phrases, themes and oc­casional melodic lines, each is a piece unto itself, stating its own theme and reaching its own conclusions. 
And that's what makes this work unusual for rock music: it works fairly well on many different levels. 
Thematically, each piece is amazingly complete, unlike the song "Close to the Edge." But the earlier work's failure was mainly due to its near-total in­comprehen~~ility, a fault that crops up in 
Friday, January 25, 1974 the observer 

Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 


MUSIC 
Tales, but seems under more control. The lyrics of Tales are more important than those of Close; they give the musical ideas added meaning, where the musical sounds of Close lyrics were more important. The words and theme of Tales are the tying factor for the' music, showing a sophistication rarely seen in rock music. 
Musically, the pieces don't quite stand up so well. The craftsmanship of the band ri)embers approaches flawlessness as Rick Wakeman's swirling, swooping keyboards weave color and tone around Jon An­derson's vocals, Chris Squire's bass, Steve Howe's guitars and Alan White's per­cussion. But unfortunately, the material is not quite up to that kind of craftsmanship. Like Jethro Tull, the material falls short of the players, though it is better material (comparatively speaking) than Tull has had recently. Long passages oftentimes become repetitious and tiring, destroying the effect that is soue:ht. A probable reason for this 
might be the subjugation of music to the theme material. 
For this is where the music excels: its organization and concept. Each of the four 20-minute pieces is a small masterpiece of arrangement and organization, perfectly depicting musically the theme of the piece. Good examples of this are the opening of the first movement, where the slow build-up of vocals and instruments beautifully portrays the rising of the sun, and the percussion explosion in the middle of the third movement that signals the start of a sym­bolic fight between love and evil. 
But the material within that organizational frame is simply too much and overdone. Riffs and melodic lines ap­pear and reappear over and over until at one point (the first part of the second movemenu the listener is ready to give up. At other times, the special effects are enough to drive one to simply turn off the amplifier, like the percussive clanging in the middle of the fourth movement. 
Tales: movement by movement 
The first side opens with an unusual . treatment by Yes: a vocal. Slowly building with overdubbing and moog, the opening passage starts the search for identity by the symbolic sunrise : the birth of con­sciousness. It quickly settles into three distinct themes !hat develop the purpose and course of the search, a part of the album that is perhaps the best: gentle guitar work coupled with outstanding keyboards producing generally tasteful passages and some of the finer bridges in Yes work. One of the most exciting parts also occurs near the end: a moog lead that threatens to ex­plode, suggesting urgency for the search. Though lasting less than a minute, the segment demonstrat~s Wakeman's beautiful sense of the dramatic. 
Side two begins the search of memory, emphasizing the object of this part of the search as not for fact, but impressions and feelings,through a more ethereal music than before. Though weak for the first third of the piece by a repetition. of a simple melodic line, a slow drifting in and out of dreamland through mellotron and moog slowly begins to emerge, again demonstrating Wakeman's virtuosity. 
The third movement narrows the search to a m oreconcreteone: the uncovering of the glory of past achievements. Beginning with an unusual percussion piece overlaid with guitar that is perhaps a bit overdone, the main theme eventually solidifies into a broad trip through the civilizations of the past via electric guitar and complex per­cussion riffs. This is about the most tedious 
of the four sides, as the wailing guitar and 
intricate percussion patterns begin to get on 
one's nerves, especially when it threatens to 
end at least twice and comes back for more. 
The fourth side pulls together all the in­fluences from before and reaches a con­clusion that marks the end of the search for identity. It depicts the great "battle of life" as a battle between bass and percussion that is fairly exciting, however strange. Finally, "love" (percussion) wins, shouting out its victory in a clanging of bells, cymbals and drums. Another of the weak spots, the tiring solo is finally relieved by giving way to the excellently drawn main motif of the movement: "Nous sommes du soleil (We are of the sun)," the solution to the problem of identity. This motif brings the entire work to an end that is quite satisfying and almost worth the trip by itself. 
most effective aspect 
Finally, an aspect of the work that is the most effective is the simple, non-analytical, stand-back-and-take-it-ali-in effect. Mostly due to Wakeman's keyboards, the total effect is one that can only be compared to a visual aurora-something that seems to be there, but isn't. It teases the ears, creating an eerie impression of unreality. In this sense,the work reaches its highest success. 
TOJS last success also points up the significance of the work as a whole. While it may have its faults, it is like the Who's Quadrophenia: the faults become almost insignificant when considered against the scope of the whole. Tales is an amazing mixture of theme and ability, a mixture that few rock artists can rival. While the work itself is flawed, the concept overshadows it and takes on a new importance. 
Rock music is searching for new forms to express a sophistication never before reached in popular music. Tales From Topographic Oceans, while far from realizing those forms, is a giant step in that search, a step that will gain in importance as other artists build on its success. 
Tales From Topographic Oceans 
Yes 
Atlantic SO 2-908 
2-record set, $9.98 list 

" that's what makes this work unusual for·rock music: it works ... well on many different levels." 
the observer Friday, January 25, 1974 
by Joseph Abell 

You're in a car speeding down a rather crowded Texas State Highwayl83, heading for a nationally insignificant suburb of Dallas called Irving. The familiar sports landmark of Texas Stadium has already whizzed by on the right and occasional shopping centers break up the bare, grass-covered fields. 
Your car whips off a rather new exit ramp and 

dashes along a winding strip of road through 
trees and brush. Coming around a corner., you 
emerge from the foliage and are engulfed 
in...Tomorrowland. 
Quickly passing through a ticket booth arnf 

grabbing a parking pass, you run the speed up to 
55 as sweeping ramps and futuri4tie Ught 
poles spread out before you. Brown. signs irt· 
dicate gas stations, parking lots and .'~ 
ministrative buildings, all strangely off to •.the 
left, and suddenly your exit com._ up, ma(led 
by the airline whose plane you'H meeting. ::rou 
whip off the main road and wind.oround aroller• · 
coaster-like strip of spaghett\;JtAdJ~t~ ~ ~!:'~ ... 
lot. Finding your flight's number, you pull into 
one of the spaces in the third level, instinctively 
duck your head under the 8-food ceilings and 
prepare for a long walk to the gate. 
A quick dash across a road, through double 

glass doors, past a security frame and you do a 
double-take: you're there! The gate stands 
before you. A bright flash catches your eye; the 
distinctive plaid of your friend's suitcase ap­
pears from the baggage claim area and you look 
back at the gate to see the passengers of your 
friend's plane just beginning to emerge. 
SOUND A BIT HARD to believe? Especially after enduring everything from walking miles of airport corridors and paying exorbitant parking fees to put your car three miles away? It's real, all right; it's the world's biggest and most ambitious; in fact it's an airport as big as Manhattan: the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport. 
Situated almost exactly between the two Texas cities, the new airport has one purpose according to its designer, Gyo Obata: to get back to "the old airport in small towns with one hanger and terminal for one airline." Executive Director Tom Sullivan said it another way: "You walk directly from the parking lot to the ticket counter to the plane." And for an airport that's bigger than the John F. Kennedy Airport, O'Hare Airport and the Los Angeles International Airport combined, that's a hell of a purpose! 
DFW achieves this through its unorthodox design. Vaguely resembling four half­mushrooms on a stick, the airport derives its efficncy by giving each airline its own terminal. The "stick" is the airport spine road, called the International Parkway, and the "mar­shmallows" are the terminals. 
The set-up's a simple one: each terminal is a semicircle containing one or more airlines. The road gives motorists direct access to the ter­minals and the close-in parking lots that fill the inside of the semicircles. Now, is that com­plicated? It makes you wonder why somebody didn't think of it before. 
But the airport's details are far from simple. 
Touted as the most highly advanced airport ever designed and built, it incorporates innovations that will look to the future of aircraft history. It's isolated from the "metroplex" of Dallas and Fort Worth, so noise pollution won't be a problem for quite awhile. It has some of the longest runways in the country, stretching to an eventual 20,000 feet. And, most importantly, it has something few airports can boast: room to expand. Though only four of the "mar­shmallow" terminals are currently operating, the airport will eventually have 13, handling 434 passenger and cargo gates. 
Airport planners envision the air~t to be totally conlpleted in 2001, and able to handle 21st century aircraft in the bargain: roeket planes, hypersttnic airliners and the so-called "skyscraper planes" of three an<\ four decks. Jt will becomeoneof Qnly 10 or 12 "n1ajor air hubS" in the wor14, and will.,. a city in itself, including a world tr;tde:centet\l cemetery.(!)~ a lush, park-like expanse. · · 
THE COSTS .f'oR SUCW A FA.,~Y were staggerlng;cffuth monetatlly and diPlomatically. T~ ·~ing phase wjll rep~t· over $700 iillllion in revenue bond's~1tf§fri~'1968. And to set up a project of this size required cooperation between two city governments that have been feuding about airports since 1927. 
The feud became more bitter when Dallas 
expanded an old army base to become Love 
Field after World War II and Fort Worth 
established the Southwest International Airport 
in 1953. As Southwest International flopped and 
Love Field grew more and more "fingers" (tack­
on terminals), the FAA decided it was time for 
something better. So it forced the two feuding 
cities to create a Regional Airport Board in 1964 


Dallas-Fort Worth: 

to look into the construction of a new airport. 
By 1968, everything was ready and con­struction began. The first airplane landed at the then-unfinished airport in 1971 when a military plane developed trouble on the way to Southwest International. 
And then the shock hit: dedication day was set almost a year and a half earlier than everyone had figured. The airport board announced in the summer of '73 that the new 'port would be opening at the end of September. And it wasn't even finished. 
Things didn't quite work out that way, though. 

Having just remodeled Love Field two years earlier, the airlines weren't about to move out. One even went as far to file a suit to stay at Love since it was a Texas intrastate operation. Others simply refused to move until they felt they were ready. 
A compromise eventually cleared the air and dedication day was set for September 23 with the opening in the middle of January. And both had a less than rousing kickoff. 
The dedication was made to the "young faces of the future" as some of those same faces made off with qr destroyed over $20,000 of the airport's equipment that day. Especially popular witb the crowd (50,000 strong) wtre parts of the .,bug· eyed n1onster" streetlights. 
And at 12:07a.m. January 13, a Braniff jetliner touched dowlt amid the scraps of the still­unfinished tern,inals. 
.. litiT WHY THIS complica~on and)li~assi~e. ~fu? Partly because a great deal','llf the ail1w port's systeras and services arem"totally ~·..·. perimental irHbe airport's e~text. That's only ... fitting; afte.-~ . all, the aP"Port itself is· revolutionary! ~ :, -· •. : :;. · tL~ ·' 
However, rftah'1 ··tir''ttiese innovations didii''f' have the time to be developed to theit full ef­ficiency, and hence could not handle the jobs they were given. 
Not the least of those experiments is the most vital part of the airport, the very aspect that made such a mammoth complex possible: the revolutionary transportation syst~m called Airtrans. 
Developed by the Dallas-based Ling-Temco­Vought, Airtrans is a transportation system that moves passengers, mail, baggage, trash, sup­plies, and nearly anything else you can think of, between the terminals and various buildings around the 'port. 
Originally envisioned as a "people mover" system, Airtrans utilizes 68 rubber-tired vehicles moving over some 13 miles of concrete 

An airpor1 as Manha 
guideways. Powered by electricity, 51 of the vehicles will be enclosed and air-conditioned for passengers to ride from terminal to terminal. Each handles 40 passengers-16 seated and 24 standing-with carry-on luggage. 
An estimated 9,000 people will be able to take Airtrans from any of the Airport's 50 stations pet;. hour, boast officials. Moving anywhere fron1 four to 17 miles per hour, Airtrans will also be able to handle 6,000 pieces of luggage and 76,0()0 pounds of mail in that same hour. A central computer will control the entire system, hopefully avoiding wrecks and confusion. 
Other new features both enhancto airport ef· ficiency and speed service. .. 
Docutel, a luggage-handling syst~; withjn a terminal, was installed in the Braalfi anf· American half-marshmallows. Composed of metal carts moving on aluminum rails al tO m.p.h., the Docutel system runs bags above the cei~ing panels to . centrally-located bagg{!._g~,.. . claim areas that will, when fully opet$t.i\'t, be able to have a passenger's baggage ready for him before he reaches the claim areas. 
Lighting, looking ljke something from sci~ fiction movies, varies around the airport to produce enough illumination to read a book in the airline service areas to "moonlight glows" around roads and terminal ran1ps. Even the pole material is something advanced: a special steel alloy that looks rusty now, but in a year or so, will flake off to reveal a deep chocolate surface and require almost no maintenance. Sign poles, guard rails and bridge supports are also made of the same material. 
The airport board has even gone so far as to set up its own police and fire departments, in· creasing its efficiency by having the pollee and fire-fighting teams go through training in the other field. This enables the 205-member force to fully utilize the 10 fire pieces and more than a dozen squad cars. The department also features such metropolitan aspects as a criminal division, a motorcycle corps, an explosives-
An Airtrans unit zips by the 196-foot control tower, which houses two separate control "cabs" for traHic control on the two sets of parallel north-south runways, The 11-sided tower, the only one of its kind in existence, is a result of the most ad­vanced planning of the FAA. 
Friday, January 25, 1974 
the observer 
7 

sniffing German Shephard and even a 2-(!ell jail. 
Services will range from mao-on-the-beat to air 
crash rescue. 
A 16-room hospital and medical care center 
will handle any problems with its full range of 
diagnostic equipment and full-time staff. The 24­
hour facility will also be able to whip a seriously­
injured person to a nearby hospital. 
All-new waste facilities will handle the 
mountain of garbage and other wastes generated 
by the airport. Airtrans will transport solid 
wastes to special, near-total incinerators that 
eliminate nearly all smoke and particles. Liquid 
wastes from. airline pit areas will go through 3­
stage treatment plants, assuring no con­
tamination in Bear Creek, the same place that 
other, nornlal sewage will go.
Tbe interiors of the airport terminals will ha,ndle everything from soup to butts in the multitudinous newsstands and coffee shops. Dobbs House, well known in South Bend for their Toddle House chain, will handle the primary food service, claiming to specialize in "cheap, quick service away from the plush restaurants," and offering a good meal for less than two bucks in any of the 36 shops. 
Services are also extended to the han­dicapped, with special facilities for deaf, blind and wheelchair-bound airport users. Eight in­formation booths staffed by the Deaf Lions Clubs of Dallas-Fort Worth will provide help for the hard of hearing. 
Specially reserved parking places with extra­wide boundaries are marked off for wheelchairs, along with small ramps and gentle curves. Public elevators will be very roomy, as will special rest room stalls with swing-outdoors. 
Handrails, wash basins, mirrors and telephones have all been lowered. Elevator buttons, restroom entrances, escalators, stairs and other doorways are marked with Braille warnings to identify and instruct. 
Decorations in the terminals will be designed by the airlines and are planned to include plush, stylistic trappings. American Airlines, for in­
f as big tfan 
stance, has moved its gigantic steel disk mobile from the Love Field terminal to its middle-gates lobby in Terminal 3E. 
Eye appeal goes even as far as the outside concr~te, :which has been given a light brown "warm tone" tQ figbt familiar white glare on slblny days. 
AND IF YOU THINK there's a catch to all these cQnveniences, you ain't just whistlin' "The Eyes of Texas.'flt won't be spura, but quarters tllat go jlngle-jangle-jingle-'in, patron's pockets t.~Jroughout the airport. · 
·.When you diive into the port( you'll be given a tidtet fofparking. Ifyou do,n:twant to park, but. justdrive through to piclt upordropoff someone, it1.1 cost yQUaquarter. And for that, you onlygetaominutet..tfthe plane's la~. it goes up~ qd1ter for every additf._. 30 minu~ ·tbe same rut short-term parking. 
·'flanf a eup of ~ffeel TWeftty~five eent$, ~se. How about a quick call to the wife and kids in Dallas? You guessed it. <But. then again, thatalso includes long-distance tolls to Big D and Cowtown}. 
That marvelous Airtrans also costs a quarter­not 25 cents, a quarter·-as will the auxiliary buses when Airtrans doesn't work. And if you need to use the john, hope you've got a dime. 
Even getting change for everything else will cost: Change machines take your dollar andgive back only 95 cents. 
Getting to and from the Dallas-Forth Worth Airport will also make you appreciate your paycheck. Though the airport board has set. up a special ·system of buses, taxis and limosines called Surtran (surface transportation), com­muters may find other means more confenient. Surtran buses leave from four Dallas and Fort Worth stations and the airport every half hour. For only $2.50 (or $4, depending if you want to leave directly from your downtown hotel or not), brand spanking new Surtran buses will whisk you to your terminal in less than 30 minutes. Limosine and taxi services have not been set up yet. 
For those who demand a bit more specialized service, it's actually cheaper to take a commuter plane than a taxicab. Metroflight Airlines, operating from the Braniff terminal, will offer over 60 flights a day from Love Field to the new airport and back beginning sometime in February. Using twin-engined STOL <Short Take Off and Landing) aircraft, Metroflight president 
J.L. Seaborn boasted a flight time of less than 10 minutes and a cost of $13. Cab fare will run you about $15, Dallas cab companies report. 
Determined to take the family car? Remember, it's about 17 miles from either city, and if you're coming from Dallas, odds are you'll take the State Highway 183. If you've ever fought COwboy traffic, you probably know full well that 183 is also the main route to Texas Stadiunl. On an average day with average gas mileage, the run will take you about 25-30 minutes and gobble about four bits worth of gas. 
Parking? There's three kinds: short term, long term and Valet (covered long term). Short term 1·ates are 25 cents per half-hour, $3 maximum per day. Long term is 25 cents per hour, $1.50 maximum per day. Valet rates have yet to be set; the Valet people are still trying to unload their facilities at Love Field. 
IF YOU DO GET A CHANCE to see the new airport in the near future, however, don't get your "'pectations too high. All is definitely not chrome and polish yet. A week before the scMduled opening day, the airport had a "trial run" without flights to check everything out. They invited the public and press in to witness Aittrans breaking down and people wandering 
•bout the complex as if in a daze. The "simple airport days" returned to the early days of simple disaster. 
To make matters worse, on opening day itself, everyting that didn't go wrong the first time did. And everything that didn't go wrong wasn't finished. Electric doors had to have airline personnel stationed near them to pull and grunt. The "convenience" of short walks in the press releses quickly disappeared as, one by one, 
. the security "door frames" broke down and passengers had to walk almost the entire length of the terminals to reach their gates. In many spots, airport patrons sidestepped carpet rolls and danced around electricians' equipment. The marvelous baggage-handling systems broke down at midday, forcing passergers to wait literally hours for luggage. Many of the com­puter ticketing terminals were down and even the digital clocks merrily whirred time away. 
And in the midafternoon of that first day, the ultimate discouragement: the planes themselves began stacking up. A few days later even saw planes being rerouted to Love Field due to fog and non-functioning guidance equipment. 
All this wouldn't be so disheartening if one could realize that, after all, this is the world's biggest; sure there's going to be a few problems in the beginning. But alas, DFW won't even hold that honor for more than a year. Montreal II, a super airport in Candada, will outsize DFW by a thousand acres. 
But that's about the only dimension Montreal II will have over DFW; on opening day, just one terminal with 22 gates will highlight the 
Canadian facility, compared with four terminais and 66 gates in its American counterpart. Montreal will also expand to an ultimate of only 6 terminals, as opposed to DFW's 13. 
lllllr. 
Above, looking from the north, the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport sprawls across the Texas coun• tryside. Below, a comparison of what is and what will be. The shaded sections show the eventual plan for the airport, set for completion in 2001. The black sections indicate those in operation. All photos and diagrams courtesy of DFW. 


DFW'S PROBLEMS ARE undoubtedly as solvable as the airport board believes and says, though it may take a little while for the airport to get up to full operating capacity. It'll also take time for the public to get a full understanding and appreciation of the complex. When these are achieved (one humorous song now playing in Dallas sets this day simply by playing the first line of an old hit, "In the year 2525 ..."), the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport will definitely be, in the words of one electrician working on it, "one sumbitchin' airport." 




----·----------------------------------------------­

the observer Friday, January 25, 1974 
Junior class 

Sponsors parents weekend 
by John Decoursey Staff Reporter 
On the weekend of February 22­24, the Junior class will sponsor the Twenty-second Annual Junior Parents Weekend. The weekend has been planned and organized by John David Brown, chairman, Kat h ~een Keyes, dinner coor­dinator ;Steve Simpson, financial chairman; Jim Swedyk, activities chairman; Greg Erickson, 
junipr class president;  and  
Father  David  Schlaver,  ad­ 
r.linistrative  supervi(J  of  the  
e,·ent.  

The highlights of the weekend are the Notre Dame vs. Michigan 

To select senior fellow 
Jerry Samaniego, Senior . Class President, has announced that this year's primary election for senior fell~w will be held during the first week of March. Samaniego also indicated that Thursday, Fegruary 28, is the last day that any nominations can be entered. 
Any senior can make a nomination for senior fellow by submitting a petition signed by 50 
seniors supporting the can­didate. The petition forms can be picked up at. the Student Govern­ment office which is located on the third floor of the Lafortune Center, between the hours of 9:00 am and 5:00pm. Once the petitions have been filled, they must be returned to the Student Govern­ment office by 5:00 pm on Thur­sday , February 28. 
Samaniego explained that all nominees "must be physically capable and willing to be present during the week of graduation." If this requirement cannot be met, then the candidate is immediately 

hockey game on Friday, a mass on Saturday celebrated by Father Theidore Hesburgh, and later that night, the President's Dinner with Father Hesburgh giving the main address. 
The schedule for the week is as follows,Friday, the hockey game will start at 7:30 p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center. A cocktail party will follow from 
9:30 until midnight in the ACC's Concourse. · 
Saturday, a career op­portunities seminar will feature the deans and other faculty members from 1 to 3 p.m. The Alumni Association will present "Notre Dame in Review," a multi­media look at the University today, 
dropped from any further con­sideration. 
The position of Senior Fellow is and should be an honor to fill. 
Comegrowwithourllmdl! 
We're C&S, the second fastest growing major bank in the country. And we plan to quadruple in size during this decade: We're the kind of bank that early over­came the stuffy. conservative image held by banks in general. The reason for the difference is the kind of people who've built C&S: a new breed of bankers who had the imagination to think of new things to do, new ways to do the old things. and the courage to try them. But what does all of this have to do ·with you? Perhaps a lot-if you choose to join Banking's New Breed and come grow with us! Stop by your school placement office. We will be on your campus soon.· 
at 3 p.m. in the Center for Con­tinuing Education. Fr. Hesburgh, other members of the Ad­ministration, and the hall rectors, will greet parents and students from 3to 5 p.m. in the CCE. The Presidential Dinner will be held from 7:30 to 10 p.m. in the North Dining Hall. 
Sunday, the weekend's activities will be brought to a close with a sit­down breakfast beginning at 9:30 
a.m. in the North Dining Hall. 
Tickets  fot  the  different  ac­ 
tivites will  be ·distributed  to  the  
students two  weeks prior  to  the  

weekend. 500 reservations have already been made for the President's Dinner, and the supply of available hockey tickets is almost gone. Deadline for all reservations is February 1. 
plilll ning n \W(kl ing'! eal I Tlw 234-5822 \\t..-kl ing Photo~raplx'r 
234-5822 MICHAEL LONIER fast~. DhotoaraDhv 
rea~~ grapJC deSign 


SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH 
5:15pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC 9:30am Sun. Fr. George Wiskirchen, CSC 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. Andrew Ciferni, 0. Praem 
12:15 pm San. Fr. William Toohey, CSC 
6:30pm Sun. Byzantine Liturgy Holy Cross 
r--------_._..,--... ~ -----­--l !~~ 
Chuck 
~ '65 
1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 Fighting Irish Bourbon • 55.70/fifth NO Football Player Bottles -Limited Supply 
GO IRISH • RUIN THE BRUINS ·AGAIN! 
EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER .200yds. on left 
10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD ___ CAS~~-?_F_L~~L:'O~-~D WINE TO ORDER KEGS 



PINS 
A store with the unusual has something that should become very usual. 
A handsome gold pin of N.D. # 1. 
You will be able to wear it for years to come. 
COMMUNITY NEWS STAND 
11 3 WEST MONROE 1 Ill. WEST OF IIIEW POST OFFICE 


(actual size) 


IRISH 

CgS 
The Citizens and Southern National Bank Management Recruiting 99 Annex Atlanta, Georgia 30399 
-
Friday, January 25, 1974 the observer 

Sales over s2000 
Book exchange success 


By Bob Quackenbush Staff Reporter 
The Student Union Book Ex­change satisfied many people this past week--its customers, its organizer, its staff, and most particularly its sellers who received as much as $37 in cash returns for their used, unwanted books. Under the sponsorship of the Student Union Services Commission, the exchange provided for the first time at Notre Dame a central locale for the buying and selling of students' used textbooks. · 
Even Paula Tosi, a diminutive St. Mary's student who led everyone with 28 books returned unsold, reacted favorably. "This 1·eally was a tremendous idea. I sure hope you do it again next semester. Besides," she added, "my books sold. -Most of' these others really belong to my 1·oommates." 
One of the better sellers, Gil Garcia, an Alumni Hall junior, was overwhelmed at the proceeds from his collection of textbooks and paperbacks. As he departed, head shaking in· disbelief, he kept repeating, "$21.75! Wow! $21.75! " 
The success of the Book Ex­change far exceeded the hopes of its organizers. After the first day, which netted $39 in sales, the preliminary goal of $500 seemed extremely distant. But when the cash was tallied, sales had reached $2003.95. 
"I think one of the main reasons 
for our success," observed Brian 
Hegarty, the organizer of the 
exchange, "was having the b~ks 
right there in a convenient location 
for the people to look at, so that 
they wouldn't have to chase all 
over campus seeking all different 
people with the used books they 
need. Also, the competitive 
pricing among people selling the 
same book helped save many 
students money." 
The exchange operated simply 
enough. Students wishing to sell 
books brought them in, where they 
were categorized for the con­
venience of other students willing 
Rehnquist to visit ND 
William H. Rehnquist, associate 
justice of the United. States 
Supreme Court, has scheduled an 
informal meeting with stude.nts 
and friends at 3:30p.m. Saturd~y, 
.January 26, in the Law School 
Lounge. 
to buy. Thus, a representative number of books from every field of study within the University became available for sale. 
As books were sold, the name, price, and seller of the book were recorded on "Books Sold" lists. The information on these lists was later transferred to the contracts which the sellers had completed upon bringing their books. In this manner, the .amount of cash and the titles of the books to be 1·eturned to each individual were recorded in. one place. 
Two remarkable statistics were evident. Of the $2003.95, only thirty-five cents was unaccounted for. And of the estimated 3000 books available, only three had been lost through theft. 
One staff member reported he was really amazed at just how well the exchange went. "The thing that really impressed me," he said, "was that we heard ab­solutely no negative comments throughout the entire weekend. Everyone who came was really 
enthused about it and saying things like "This is really a great ser­vice" and "this is fantastic." The whole thing came off very well" he concluded.. 
He further related the only real "incident" cropped up when workers couldn't ·locate a girl's contract, without which her money could not be paid out. She grew impatient, seized the pile of con­tracts, fingered through them hastily and finally found it. Her "1­told-you-so". expression lasted only momentarily, when a staff member noted that, according to the way she filled out her contract, her name was really "Calculus and Analytical Geometry," and that was why it was filed under "C" instead of "E." With that the laughter commenced and the "incident" was over. 
Although the. workers did not realize it at the time, the very last book sold, Ted Wand's "Landscape Architecture" at $4.00, put them over the $2000 mark. 
· Now there only remains some paperwork to be done, as organizers hope to arrive at exact figures for the nutnber of books available, the number sold, the percentage of books sold, and .the number of people who utilized the service. 
The project was conceived by Brian Hegarty, a sophomore from Pittsburgh and a member of the Services Commission. His assistants were primarily fellow sophomores and residents of Keenan Hall. 
"There was much appreciated help from the B-P Moosehunters, especially Bob Quakenbush, John Lawton, and "Dangerous Dan" 

CinemaEIJ...-. 
Alfred Hitchcock's ·Strangers on a Train 
.. DC'vllt~hy cfe•vcr··
··Magni'icenr·· 
NEW YORK H[R...LO TRIBIJNF NEW YORK TIMES 
~Tulla.tlv a ~ 
• a "'Ipm-BNIJ. ALJD.. ADMIBIIICN • 8'1.00

* •
PATAONII ,..... • ¥a.a:ruAAL AAT8 CONWII881QN 
Duncheon," said Hegarty. "Also lending valuable assistance were Mark Gorenson, Rich Imgram, Bob Dudick, Mary Fran Hayes, Ann Bebenek, Cheryl Todaro, Peggy Fahrenbach, Dave Cald­well, and Bill Carrick. And I'd also like to thank the Off Campus Commission for loaning us their office." 
As stipulated in the contracts, all books not picked up by their owners by 10 pm last Tuesday became the property of the Student Union. Hegarty commented, "Since this was a non-profit operation, the money we get for the sale. of these left-over books is going to cover the costs of this and any future book exchange ser­vices. We hope people will un­derstand and approve." 
People who believe they may have some money due them are advised to call Hegarty at 3265. 

609 East Jefferson Mishawaka· 

IIOUIIS• " 
MON-TUES-,_ .... 
9 AM S.JO PM­WID -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPt.m1 wec:rAO.I 
SOVICf


RoGERS 
AU f"''E M.."' 
NESC:aWTIONS HONOIB: 
e..tt

Optical 
219-7109 
Want to do something 
worthwhile for yourself? 
If you have at least two years left at Notre Dame you should investigate the Army ROTC Program on campus. 
There are openings for enlisted veterans who have the additional opportunity to apply for a one year full tuition scholarship. Veterans may opt for either a 3 month or a 2 year active duty commitment after commissioning. 
Non-veterans interested in earning an officer's commission should inquire about the Two-Year Program. Individuals in this program are eligible for two and for one-year scholarships. If you desire further information, visit the 
. Army ROTC office on campus or call 6264. 

AnnyRarc 




Save on fa-mous name 
DRESS SHIRTS $5.99 each • 4 for $20 
Take this opportunity to stock up ... you can wear and enjoy university styled dress shirts, in a choice of solids, stripes and patterns, at great savings. Stop by, look them over. 
A FEW AT $7.99 EACH • 4 FOR $25 


· 


Dear Edltor:, . 
After sufferiDg .three weeks into· the new year without a singlE! chance to contradict an ad­ministrator, I am delighted by the learned controversy over. the relative merits of "y'all" ver­sus"y'awl". Inasmuch as I am on leave of absence, I am also a little in want of a scholarly subject wherewith to achieve the promp­test possible publication. 
Truth is, the pronoun in question is spelled simply "you all." It has been spelled that way since the time the and dropped out of the West Yorkshire dialect espression "you-and-all,"leaving two words 
' 
but only one vowel, a long "a," to
I 
subsume the duties of the elided '.l­ou" in "you." So !lipell it "you·all." The contracting gets done in the speaking.... You (or ''you all") can find it ~ spelled in a dialec~ tical dictionary. · 
Isn't (or "ain't••) a lit~e Jearniri' 

just grand? . 
Sincerly, Associate Professor Leslie Martin 
Fly P·attern? 

) 
Dear Editor: 
I wish to briefly recount an in­cident which occurred Tuesday. I was nonchantly strolling down the road from N.D to SMCat 9:00Am and as I rounded the bend in the road near the cemetery I was accosted by a not-to-modestly (so to speak) dressed pervert who proceeded to mutter obscene proposals. 1 call this to your at­
tention only becasue· l Jeel that 
. .C~DlpUS security faDs_short OD tar too. riisy c()unts. I ha\!e w•lked over .to SMC af least 'one: hundred times this and only once ~ve J encountered a patrol car. 1would venture to say that that road is probably a prime target for crin1inals, and the very fact that a man could stand exposed for some time in broad daylight bespeaks the laxity in security. My already battered confidence in campus security crumbled when I notified the SMC authories. The officer on duty tried to notify ND security and-after failing to elicit a response for some time he turned on n1e, chuckled, and said, "Oh' they n1ust be on a coffee break! " 
<Nan1e withheld upon request) 
Judgement Day 
'· · Pear Editor: · 
r . . 

In regard to the letter published: in the editorial Section of the Ob­server, Jan. 23, 1974 by · Jacli: Hamilton of the University of Southern Illinois, one of the "damned" would like to comment on Mr. Hamilton's bizarre yet picturesque interpretation of the Notre Dame community. 
It is quite apparent that Mr. Hamilton has never set foot in Du Lac <perhaps he should>, else he would have noticed the electric atmosphere and intense pride genterated by all those connected with the institution, particualrly on 'the days of important sports events. N•eedless to say, en­thusiasm of this sort can be overdone and occasionally is; we've all seen it happen. Neverthe less, ~ laymg of a"bla~et vertiic~,. of damnation on aii the fans of Nofr.e ., Dame· ia absurd an.d irresponsible · at best. This university is founded oo a deep arid personal ~lief i!Dd trust iii God, and unlike n1ost · elsewhere, it is 
generally a practicing belief. Mr
Han1ilton, I remind You Qf some 
words of wisdom for the Holy Bible: "How dare you say to your brother, "Let me take the splinter out of your eye" when all the time there is a plank in your won?" 
The Christ-like virture of forgiveness is strangely lacJrJng in Mr. Hamilton's tirade against the few overzealous fans of Notre Dame, and I suggest he investigate it immediately, or the university of Notre Dame will not be the only instution represented in hell. on Judgement Day. 
. sm<:erely .• D.avid Sonego 

·SCHOIAIYJC·. 
·Generaf Meetbag: 
Sunday 7.pm New members welcome. 
Observer Advertising 283-7471 

T:HE ROMA 
Welcomes aft Notre Dame & St. Mary's Student~ your host FRANK ANASTASIO 

THIS W.EE·KEND-ROCK AND ROLL  BY MICHIANA'S  FINEST:  
I  
··  A19o piua,-fi~ ita1ian food  ~  liquor  . ,:  
_,  ;~ i' .­ · . ' .CitI! lU3258 for dellv"r:iq '..**11!***"*********-***lli*** . . .  . :  
UPS1AIRS INAfH& ArrtC  ·  
ENTftRTAINMEN'I' IJY LAUGHING COW CHEEZE from St. Louis  

•~~:: 8..OM.. A + 219 N. Michigan Ave. + Downtown Soutlt a,nd
.....~ ____
..........."'-._ ......______________. 
Start your \Wekend a-t . 


Bulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla.•nd Juniper across from Gre~ce tower.) 

.... 
_:. 
..·· 
. 
"' .... 
Friday Mass and Dinner 5:00 p.m. 
The 







LovingCup 

)I 
",.. 
i) Ji 

A 

T.,m McMahon General Agen• 

r·.... 
~ .•... 
i 
•· 
j 
N. rm Wallace 
T. m Sct1irr 

------------------~ 
'Tearafter ~ear. ~eme~t er I after ~eme"iter. the Collcge\1a"iter' from Fidditv Lnion I jfe ha~ heen the most acceph..'<i~most popular plan on campuses all merAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union ( 'ollegeMaster· Field Associate in vour area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 

South Bend , Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 


Carlton Higgenbotham 


Friday, January 25, 1974 
the observer 1 1 


Dong Sik Kim, head instructor of t 
'Drunk and stoned' 
Teen qualifies confession 
t.y James Overton this century. He is charged with 
Houston <UPI) -Because he had six deaths in connection with the been drinking beer and moonshine three-yearseries of murders and whisky and sniffing paint, Elmer will be tried first for the killing Wayne Henley said Thursday he of one of the victims. didn't know what he was saying The youth's lawyers are trying to when he confessed to some of have his spoken and written the 27 sex slayings of young boys. confessions suppressed as 
Chain-smoking in his first public evidence. court testimony since his arrest Henley told police the murder five months ago, Henley, 17, said ring was masterminded by Dean quietly ''I was about half drunk Corll, 33, who he said he killed on and stoned." the night of his arrest last August. 
Henley and David Owen Brooks, 
Henley, thin and pale and also indicted for murder, later wearing a suit for the first time in led police to the bodies, ouried at court, testified during pretrial three spots in Texas. hearings on his part in the worst Henley testified he was unable to mass murder in the United States recall details of his arrest Aug. 8. 
Songfest tonight at SMC 
A unique evening of en­tertainment combining Broadway and international music will be presented at Saint Mary's, on Friday, January 25, 1974, at 8:15 pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Entitled "An Evening with Tevye and Golde," this performance will star Jerry Jarrett and Nina Dova. 
Miss Dova opens the program with a selection of international songs and is followed by 
Jarrett, who recreates the lead role of Tevye from the long-running Br3adway musical, "Fiddler On The Roof." The evening then concludes with the duo portraying Tevye and his wife, Golde, singing and philosophizing. 
·Jerry Jarrett has performed on Broadway, television, and with various stock companies throughout the United States. He appeared as Tevye for four years, both on Broadway and in touring road companies. Other per­formances to his credit include 
"Fiorello," "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes," ,Stalag 17," and "The Man Who Came to Dinner." 
Nina Dova is known to audiences around the world as an ac­complished actress, singer, and guitarist. She has perforrited on the concert stage, on television, 
TaeKwonDo 
offered by Kim 
by Phyllis Mosley 
Staff Reporter 
Because of America's nsmg crimerate many people have taken an interest in Karate as a means of self-defense. In doing so theyhave also found it not only a 
fascinating sport but an entire 
philosophy of life. 
Kim's Karate Academy located at 50981 S. U.S. 31 N. teaches the art of Tae Kwon Do Karate (Super Karate). This form of Karate develops individual self­confidence, improves the phyiscal condition, and is described as the most devastating form of self­defense ever devised. 
Kim teaches the different forms and stances involved in the practice of Tae Kwon Do Karate and also gives an analysis of each. 
"The combination of fast and slow, light and forceful movements together with an extensive footwork, or a set of defense and attack motions in a logical order designed to develop sparring techniques, to improve body coordination, to strengthen 
muscles, and to build speed," Kim said. 
Classes at h.im 's Tae Kwon D<: Headquarters are held reguarly Monday thru Friday from 12 noon · 10 p.m. and Saturday from 1p.m.­4 p.m. To enroll call272-6800. Thf classes are inexpensive and fun 
An Evening with Tevye and Golde 
PRESENTED BY THE SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 
JERRY JARRETT 
Mr. Jerry Jarrett has played several ,·ales in "Fiddler on th Roof" on Broadway, including leading role of Tevye. 
Tickets call: 284-4176 At the door $2.00 students $3.50 public 
and in the theatre. Her Broadway credits Include leading roles in "Zorba," with Herschel Bernardi, and "The Rothschilds." 
''An Evening With Tevye and Golde'' is sponsored by the College's Social Commission, and is open to the public on a reserved seat basis. Tickets for the per­formance at $3.50 for adults, $2.00 for students, and are available from the office of programming, telephone 284-4176. 
Want to go overseas? 
WORK?• TRAVEL?• STUDY? 
GET THE ANSWERS! LEARN HOW! MEET: ....... more than 50 representatives on internatidnal programs 
....... foreign consulate delegates .....·.. noted guest speakers on: 1. Individual/Independent Trav1l 
2. 
Organized Living/Cultural/Educational Programs 

3. 
Academic programs and Educational Exchange 


4. Summer Work and Volunteer Opportunities: Sat., Feb. 9, 1974 financial aid and scholarships 
University of Illinois, Circle Campus, Chicago Circle Ctr., 750 S. Halsted REGISTRATION FEE: $1.00 covers full participation and materials ·For Advance reser·vatlons call: 236-8232 SPONSOR ED BY the' top 5 non-profit organizations concerned with 
International Education 

Nickie's 
"Afternoon for Lunch Bunch" 

. f Old M"l k
40 ~ 

ptnt 0 I wau ee 
~==::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::;::::::::~,!;;;;;;;;~~~====-·=-=:i·;i;i·_iii;_=---;;·-~--::--~··---------~ 
"I had just killed a man, I didn't pay no attention," Henley said. 
. He said he recalled Pasadena police Det. David Mullican taking statements from him. Henley said he signed the documents but did not know what was in them. 
He had been drinking beer and moonshine whisky and sniffing acrylics the night of the Corll shooting, he said. 
He said he remembered taking Timothy Kerley, 20, and Rhonda Williams, 15, to Corll's house before blacking out. 
"I remember waking up and Dean Corll was slapping handcuffs on me," he said. Corll later strapped Kerley naked face down on a torture board, he said, and handed Henley a knife. He said Corll wanted him to undress the girl. 
"I was upset I couldn't 
understand why my friend handcuffed me and my friends," Henley said. "I started getting loaded again." 
Moments later, he said, he picked up a gun and held it on Corll. 
"I told Dean to back up and let those people up," Henley testified. "He took a step toward me. I had the gun pointed at him. He said, 'you won't do it,' and came at me. I guess I shot him . " 
NINA DOVA 
Miss Nina Dova has appeared on Broadway in leading roles 
in "Zorba" among many others 
JANUARY 25, 1974 8:15pm ...,,,.,,,,,.,,,._..,,".O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 

JERRY JARRETT 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE **TONIGHT** 
LEANNE JACQUES JOE KLOCKENKEMPER beneath cafeteria 9:30 -1:30 am 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Need male to share furnished too use. $87.50 per. Includes utiI. 232-2430 ask for Tim. 
WINDJAMMER looking for lead guitarist with equipment pref. sing, call Jim 1409 for appt. 
Need 2 girls for Apt. Call 8620. 
Reasonably reserved facuh~ or grad student (professional! to occupy second BR at Park Jefferson. First BR occupied by new faculty member. 283· 
6660. 
Need 2 GA tix for Marquette. Call Lee 287-0837. 
Need ride to Purdue Fri. or Sat. Call Mark 3623. 
Need roommate for NO Apts. call Tom 282-1169. 
Experienced typist would like typing to do at home. 291-3351. 
MOTORCYCLE AC­CESSORIES: Responsible person with mechanical background to run motorcycle accessories dept. Great chance to learn retail mer­chandising+ display. Hours to suit crass schedule. Apply to manager, Mr. H. Honda 50715 Us 31 N. 
Need 4 Marquette tix. Call Mike 8532 or Jim 8500. 
Need 2 GA Marquette tix. Call Denise 6715. 
FOR SALE 
Stereo turntable, Thorens. model TD160. Only 3 weeks old. Full warranty included. $175. Call 232-1535 after 8:30 
pm. 
Marantz 2215 $175. Call 1480. 
Fender 12 string guitar + case. Also reel-to-reel tape recorder. Call 7991. 
1960 Olds. Cheap dependable transportation. $50. Carlton 287-0560 or 287-2328. 
FOR RENT 
1974-75 school year-Beautiful house, nice neighborhood. 
5 BR. 234·5523. 
NOTICES 
2nd ANNUAL GSU SKI TRIP. 5-10 pm. Feb. 16, '74. Swiss Valley. S6 Half price for first 25 grad sign-ups. Bus available. 
P. Bolduc 373 Nieuwland Science. 
TUSCON SPRING BREAK: We are trying to organize a trip for Spring Break. If interested call Monica 4434 or Beth 4796. 
Sister Marita needs volunteers for the Primary Day School. For information call 7889. 
Experienced typist will do term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-5332. 
Good tix for the Friday Feb. 8 performance of Grease at Morris Civic are availble at the Student Union ticket office, open daily 1-5 pm. 
London Show Tour: March 9· 17. $451 from 58-includes air, accomadations, tix. $100 deposit due Feb. 1. Call Sister Jean Kiene 284-4516 or Clark Eide 234-3098. 
CARPENTERS, ARTISTS, 
CLEVER PEOPLE OF ALL 
KINDS!! Help build Middle 
Earth in Stepan Center ! Mardi Gras construction every night 7-12(1-12 Sat., Sun.) Jan 22-29. Come on over! 
Flanner Food Sales: Pizzas: mushroom, pepperoni, sausage, cheese. Pop: 12 oz cans 15 cents; 16 oz. cans 20 cents. Hours 10:15-11:45. 
Phone 8047. 
INTERHALL HOCKEY SUNDAY NIGHT AT 10:15 AT THE ACC. BATTLE OF THE TOWERS: THE GRACE GORILLAS VS. THE FLAN­NER FROGS. FANS IN­VITED-ITS FREE. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Accoutron watch initials JPJ 12-25-72. Reward. Call 1579. 
Lost two ladies rings in Flanners ladies rest room. Call Terry 8131. 
Lost combination black stopwatch -wristwatch. At UCLA game. Reward. 1410. 
Lost black leather wallet between Alumni and WaShington Hall. Call Dan 
1029 
PETE SNAKE TRIAD banana splits!! and plenty of good music 


12 the observer Friday, January 25, 1974 
~~~~~~~~------------~ 


Cagers overcome SFC doldrums 
AD's effective inside play was just which put ND on top 26-24. Dantley by Sam Yannucci too much for the smaller Red then scored twice from close range Flash cagers. and Brokaw added a free throw to Although the Irish jumped to an give the Irish cagers a 7
"It don't come easy,'' especially early 12-4 lead, they found it in­point lead with 3:50 left beforewhen you happen to be the nation's creasingly difficult to move the intermission. After exchanging anumber one-ranked basketball ball offensively against St. few buckets, Billy Paterno hit ateam. Coach Digger Phelps and Francis's 1-2-2 zone defense. iong jumper at the horn to send the his cagers found this to be true Compounding ND's problems was Irish into the locker room with a 41­once again last night. It took an the classy shooting of 6-4 guard 32 advantage.

aggressive defense and lots of Rick Hockenos and 6-7 forward In the second half, Notre Damemuscle before the Irish could pin a Clarence Hopson who staked the picked up where it had left off.
7R-58 defeat on visiting St. Francis. 
Red Flash to an 18-14 lead midway Using its power game to draw fouls For the most part it was the through the first half. from the smaller St. Francisbruising play of John Shumate and 
players, ND maintained a 10 point
Adrian Dantley that prevented the At that point, however, Notre
\ spread until midway through the
Red Flash from making a Dame's superior inside strength 
half. fast
\ "serious" run at blemishing Notre began to punish St. Francis. Then, two break L_ Dame-'s perfect slate. Big Shu and Shumate muscled in a two pointer layups-one by Shumate and the 

other by Brokaw-added to three straight converted free throws upped the score to 59-44, and the Irish were coasting to their twelth consecutive victory of the 1973-74 season.
t The Irish Eye 
~ 
Coach Phelps, although con­cerned a little with the "messiness" of the Irish play, wasThe Dream Bowl pleased with the game's final 
outcome. "Of course I'm pleased. 
B'"' 
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride. 

We won by 20 points, didn't we?
And if wishes could win football games, then a host of college teams 
What do you want?" 
across the nation would today be sharing the 1973 National Championship 
"We did what we had to do.
with Notre Dame's Fighting Irish. 
Coach Lonergan did a fine job in
Alabama's Crimson Tide would be right up there. So would Michigan, 
preparing for us. They played a
Ohio State, and Southern Cal. And another team, the Oklahoma Sooners, 
control game and took good shots. 
would be there too. 
Gary beats

The Sooners ended the 1973 season with a 10-(1-1 record and possessionof Their zone was real tough; Brokaw's reverse lay-up St. Francis defender Pat 
whenever you see a zone like that McGeary. Brokaw scored 12 points against the Red Flash in last
the Big Eight Conference crown. Nor have they been content merely 
your not going to see a high scoring night's 78-58 victory, a win which set the stage for tomorrow's Notre
to dream about "what might have been." They've tried to do something 
ball game." Dame-UCLA rematch in Los Angeles.
about it-at least one disappointed cluster of OU rooters has. 

Oklahoma was barred from any bowl activity last season and next St. Francis' zone was reflected in Shumate turned in his usual stellar high of 22 points while also becaus of a probation leveled by the NCAA, and it didn't take Sooner fans Notre Dame's shooting percentage. performance. Big John hit 8-15 gathering in 11 rebounds. long to decide, because their team was sidelined, that the Sugar Bowl epic The Irish could manage just 43 of from the field and added 3 free Gary Brokaw chipped in 12 between Notre Dame and Alabama was nothing more than a clash their shots compared to a seasonal throws for a total of 19 points while points while Dwight Clay and Billy between "two second-rate teams." average of 53 . pulling down 11 rebounds. Leading Paterno netted 10 and 9 points 
Since Oklahoma couldn't go to the bowl game, then, some of the more Despite the team's "off" night the Irish, though, was freshman respectively. St. Francis was led 1·abid Sooner backers in Norman brought the bowl game to Oklahoma. All-American candidate John Adrian Dantley who scored a game by Rkk Hockenos (14 points) Norman radio station WKY broadcast a computerized Dream Bowl between the Sooners and the Fighting Irish on the evening of January 
'\ UCLA hosts top-ranked Irish
14th, but the outcome of the game was a foregone conclusion -simply because of the loyalties of the guys programming the machine. 
by Vic Dorr gave up last Saturday," he said, it to be a test of whether or not we"We picked all the plays," explained Sooner play-by-play announcer Sports Editor "and I'm as proud as I can be of can overcome the weaknesses thatBob Barry, "and we used the computer in our own way." 
these guys for that. they exploited." 

Barry and Jack Ogle, his broadcasting cohort, certainly did use the Pauley Pavilion. 
"But it will be a different

computer in their own way. Say it any way you please: So John Wooden, ever cool, ever
situation for us to go out to Pauley

The game, which served the dual purpose of soothing Sooner pride and quickly or with deliberation, relaxed, feels that his Bruins are
Pavilion this week. The Bruins

raising funds for the OU band, featured plenty of scoring, plenty of fum­slurred or with a drawl. Say it ready for tomorrow's rematch.
and their fans are sure to be in­

,. bling, and not too much in the line of credibility. anyway you please, but it makes But what about UCLA's fans?
spired. But I think these people

The Sooners,.of course, won handily, 30-17. They pounded the airwaves no difference. The significance of What about the 12,800 spectaters
who are saying

for 422 total yards as compared to 196 for the Irish. Oklahoma rushed for the words remains unchanged. we don't have a who will wedge themselves into
chance are in for a surprise."

326 yards in 48 carries, and Notre Dame 100 yards in 38 carries, and the Pauley Pavilion. It means to Pauley Paveilion on Satruday
The Irish coach was right on

passing figures were just about equal-96 yards for each team. college basketball what Notre evening?
both counts. It's unlikely that theBut how were the 47 points scored? Not like 47 points were scored in Dame Stadium means to football Irish-who last Saturday displayed This second game, as was theany game during the regular season. There were only three believable and what the Dane County more late-game poise than the first, is a complete sellout. And Edtallies in the entire affair. ND was given seven points on a three-yard Coliseum means to ice hockey. It defending National Champions­Burgart, the sports editor of the pass from Tom Clementi to Wayne Bullock, and the Sooners received means legend, style, and execution will beaten badly, and its very Daily Bruin, observed yesterday,eight when Tinker Owens scored on a 46-yard pass and QB Steve Davis all rolled into one 12,8()0-seat likely that the Bruins and their caually, that "it's going to be the ran the conversion attempt in. arena. 

fans al'e going to be inspired. biggest game in the history ofWhat followed those two scores -and Bob Thomas' 47-yardfieldgoal-­It means UCLA; it means Johrt Bruin coach Wooden was Pauley Pavilion.

was something that even Ray Bradbury would have been hard-pressed to Wooden, Bill Walton, and Keith speaking both for himself and for
duplicate. Clements was trapped behind the Irish goal line for a safety Wilkes. And tomorrow night, "Our crowd will be ready, I 
his players when, in the middle of

<undoubtedly, the OU defense sacked him as he was trying to throw a for the first time since UCLA met think. They won't be anywhere
the week, he said: "The closing

tackle-trap pass to Robin Weber on third-and eight from the two.) Tim Maryland on the Pavilion floor near as loud as the crowd at Notre 
minutes of last Saturday's game

Rudnick returned an interception 84 yards for an Irish TD. last December, the words mean Dame, but they'll be ready just the 
clearly brought out the fact that we

An Oklahoma defensive back returned an interception (of a fake field "showdown." same. And to give you an idea of 
have some weaknesses that need

goal, of all things) 86 yards for a TD. Joe Washington returned a punt 79 Tomorrow night, at 8:30 Pacific the demand for tickets-student 
attention. Now the thing we must

yards for another Sooner tally, and middle guard Lucious Selmon-could Time-10:30 South Bend time­tickets for UCLA home games
do is correct them and be better

it have been anyone else? -closed the game's scoring by plucking a Notre Pauley Pavilion will host the generally sell for somewhere 
postion to defend our conference

Dame fumble out of mid-air and carrying it 31 yards for another OU second installment of Notre Dame around one dollar. But for this one 
championship and retain our been asking-and

touchdown. versus UCLA, 1974 scalpers have
national championship."

Despite the final score, though, the way the Dream Bowl was handled As is customary, the nation's getting-anywher from 10 to 15 to 
The "weaknesses" Wooden 25 dollars.

left a sour taste in the mouths of many Oklahoma fans. top-ranked team will be featured in mentioned mental
"This dreamt-up compu_terized game was a farcial flop," noted Chuck tomorrow night's contest. And as were largely ones-a travelling call, a charging "So I think they're going to beDavis, a sportswriter for The Oklahoma Daily, OU's campus-is also customary, that team will violation a failure to call time out­ready. It looks like it's going to be a newspaper. "What was meant to be a realistic matchup between the be protecting its longest wining but the Bruins have spotted their good one."
Sooners and the Fighting Irish turned out to be staged radio fiction." streak in recent history. But last errors and are determined to avoid And how are the top-ranked Irish And it's too bad it turned out that way, for the idea of an ND-Oklahoma Saturday's topsy-turvy game-a any repetitions. approaching the game, "thematchup -in a Dream Bowl or anywhere else -is an inviting one. But game which ended with Notre "All of us ," said Wooden, "and biggest game in the history ofsuch an idea is-to use Chuck Davis' term -"fiction." For even had the Dame on top, 71-7()---{iecreed that especially the Coach, must Pauley Pavilion?"
Sooners not been on probation this season, there is no guarantee that coach Digger Phelps' Fighting recognize our mistakes, admit
they, and not Alabama, would have opposed the Irish on New Year's Eve. Irish, and not the home-standing "Just like any other," said ND
them, learn from them, and forget 

After all, 'Bam a was unbeaten going into the Sugar Bowl and OU's slate Bruins, would be the unbeaten, top­assistant coach Frank
them.

was marred by a tie-a 7-7 deadlock with Southern Cal. And when two rated club. 
McLaughlin. "And I'm not just"In retrospect, I feel that I,

undefeated, untied teams had a chance to play for the National Cham­Tomorrow night then, for the saying that, either. We're going to
personal!, fell

pionship, a team with a tie on its record didn't enter into the picture. Not first time in three seasons, the victim to the go out there and try to treat this
complacency which I was afraid

this year, anyway. Because this year, going into Bowl Weekend, there Uclans, ranked second nationally, game just like it were any other
might victimize my team.

were three unbeaten, untied teams <Penn State was the third). will be sharing the Pavilion floor game."
Therefore, I failed to make theAnd after Bowl Weekend, after the Irish had tripped Alabama and Ohio with the Number One team. And proper adjustments in the waning

State had lambasted Southern Cal, a no-bowl team with a 10-(1-1 record Digger Phelps is well aware that But it's not exactly any other 
moments of the game.

became even less of a drawing card at the polls. those rankings will provide John game. It's the top-ranked 
Of course, it doesn't always •,1,ork out that way. Nebraska won the 1970 Wooden's players with bushels of "I am pleased," he continued, Irish against the number two­National Championship despite a tie with USC, and Notre Dame earned additional incentive. "that we have an opportunity to ranked Bruins. It's bE-ing televised the crown in 1966. after th£' 10-10 tie with 1\llc.higan State. "When you're Number One," even the series this Saturday or nationally, and it's being played in 
But 1973 was a year for no losses and no ties, and Oklahoma didn't fit laughed Digger, "everyone is out really find out if Notre Dame is the Pauley Pavilion. that bill. The '73 Sooners were a fine team, unquestionably one of the best to get you." But then the Irish better team. I do not want the And a game like that is just a bit 
in the nation, but they weren't perfect. coach sobered, and spoke of the game to be considered a grudge or more the "any other game."And in 1973 it took a perfect team, Notre Dame, to win the National weekend chanllenge facing his revenge game-I want it to be WhathappenedlastSaturadayinChampionship. And not even a Dream Bowl can change that. undefeated cagers. "We never free of those traits-but I do want the ACC made certain of that. 






