On The Inside 
Letters to the editor .•.page 4 Haig appointment · 
•••page 3 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX No. 14 Tuesday September 11, 1974 
To serve on amnesty board 
Pres. Ford appoints Hesburgh 
forget what the youngsters did, than what their elders 
by Jim Eder "All this leads our country into impossible, almost did,"·reasoned Hesburgh. 
Contributing Editor obscene contradictions," the Hesburgh essay con­The nine-member clemency board will be chaired bytinued. "While some agents of the government were former Republic~n Senator Charles Goodell, a knownUniversity President Theodore Hesburgh has trapping and jailing a young man who left his Canadian "dove" on the VIetnam war.
accepted an appointment by President Ford to serve sanctuary to attent the funeral of his father, other Goodell was appointed in 1968 to fill New York'son the nine-meml:}erclemency board that will review agents were guarding the former Vice President who 
draft evasion and military desertion cases. was enjoying his amnesty, playing golf in Palm vacant Senate seat following the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy but fell out of favor with
Hesburgh, who formerly served under presidents Springs," noted Hesburgh. 
the Nixon administration because of his strong standJohnson and Nixon as chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights "At this point," the University president wrote, "I against war policies.
Commission, has been a strong advocate of un­say let's wash out the residue of Vietnam. We have In 1970, Goodell lost his Senate seat to conservative
conditional amnesty. more present poisons to concern us. 
James Buckley following a campaign in which former "While I am on record as supporting unconditional "Even if some of those still outside or beyond the Vice President Agnew spoke out against Goodell'samnesty," said Hesburgh yesterday, "I welcome the law (draft evaders and deserters) did not have the "radical" ideology.
opportunity to help administer a conditional amnesty, highest motives -though many did-these petty young Goodell, however, is a long-time friend of Presidentbecause I feel it is an important step forward in miscreants, alongside their distinguished elders in Ford, having been one of the younger members of thereuniting many young men with their country and, in Watergate, etc., are pikers. I, for one, can more easily House who helped propel Ford into its leadership.
many cases, with their families." 
Th~ other ~?embers of the clemency board, ac­Ian an essay printed by the Chicago Sun-Times last cording to Umted Press International, are:May, Hesburgh expressed his personal opinion on the -Robert H. Finch who served as counselor to formerquestion of amnesty for Vietnam draft evaders. 
Presid~nt Nixon after being secretary of Health,"Amnesty is a dirty word for many Americans," Education and Welfare and who is now a lawyer in Loswrote Hesburgh. "They identify it with traitors, Angeles.
deserters, kooks, kirsute hippies and conscientious -Vernon E. Jordan, executive director of theobjectors. 
National Urban League and a lawyer.
"What they don't think about is what started us --Lewis W. walt, retired general of the Marine Corps thinking about amnesty+ the moral dilemmas of the who was an assistant commander of the Marine Corps Vietnam war, where more than a million civilians were and a veteran of World War II as well as the Koreanmurdered on each side, North and South, humdreds of and Vietnamese conflicts.
thousands of soldiers killed, 50,000 Americans dead, .--Mrs. Ai~a Oasanas O'Connor, a lawyer now ser­and a quarter of a million wounded," he explained. 
vmg as assistant counsel to the New York State"All of this and much more without anyone having a Division of Housing and Community Renewal in Newgood explanation of why we were there, what was York City.
really accomplished," charged Hesburgh. 
:-J~mes P. J?ougovita, a veteran and captain in the"I guess what really pushed me over the line into a M1ch1gan National Guard who works full-time as aposition of unconditional amnesty," wrote Hesburgh, teaching aide for minority students in the applied"was the sight of one of the greatest war hawks of the technology department at Michigan Tech University.
all, the strong talker about the bad apples spoiling the -Ralph Adam~, pr~sident of Troy University in Troy, other good apples fighting the war, our Vice President Ala., a nd a bngadier general in the Alabama AirAgnew who was super-anti-amnesty until he was National Guard.
caught doing something really bad -and what does he --James Maye, executive director of the "Paralyzed do? He wheels and deals with all his might to achieve Veterans of America" organization based inamnesty-of all things--for himself." 
Washington. 
•

Ford discusses lSSUeS at press conference 
Saying he would not pass judgment returns and their use by government In response to the fears of some By HELEN THOMAS whe~er international law permitted it, agencies other than the Internal Revenue economists, Ford said, "Let me say very UPI White House Reporter President Ford admitted frankly Monday Service, Ford said, and new legislation is strongly that the United States will not night that the United States had intervened being prepared to do the same thing. "I pave a depression.'' He said the economy in Chile but denied involvement in the personally think that it is something that 1s strong, employment is high and inflation 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -President Ford 
actual overthrow of President Salvaor shculd be kept very closely held. An in­will be cured.
said Monday night he pardoned Richard 
Allende. come tax return is a _very precious thing.'' 
M. Nixon to spare the nation further turmoil and division over Watergate, and "Our government had no involvement "there was no understanding, no deal whatsoever in the Allende coup" Ford between me and the former President... said at his second news conferen~e. none whatsoever.'' But he added that the United States had 
In a nationally broadcast news con­made an effort to "assist" the activities ference from the White House East Room­of opposition newspapers and oppostiition 
Assummer ends •••
his second as President-Ford said there political parties in the years immediately had been "very persuasive evidence" that prior to the Marxist leader's overthrow by Nixon was guilty of an impeachable of­a military junta last September. Allende fense in the Watergate cover-up and a and several thousand others died in the "very real possibility" he would have been upheaval. indicted on obstruction of justice and 
Ford said over a period of time, three orpossible 10 other criminal charges. 
four years ago, there was an effort made 
Although Nixon finally conceded only by the Allende govenrnment "to destroy that he had made "mistakes and oppostion media , both writing and misjudgments," Ford said that Nixon's ele~t~onic J?~dia, and to destroy op­mere acceptance of the pardon "can be position pohhcal parties, and the effort construed" as an admission of guilt. tha~ was made in this case was to help and 
ass1st the preservation of opposition
Ford said that despite daily reports, he 
newspapers and electronic media and toknew little more than what he read or preserve opposition political parties." 
heard in the news media about Nixon's precarious health since his Aug. 9 "I think this is in the best interests of the resignation. He indicated it played people in Chile and certainly in our best secondary role the controversial pardon interests. " decision. 
When asked by a newsman what right
The President condeded his decision to the United States had to "destabilize" the grant a full pardon to Nixon in advance of consititutionally elected government of any legal proceedings against him had another country, Ford replied : "created more antagonism than I an­I am not going to pass judgment on ticipated.'' But he insisted he was still whether it is permitted or authorized "absolutely convinced" his decision was under international law. It 'is a correct. recognized fact that historically and ,
Under persistent questioning about the presently such actions are taken in the 
~ 
circumstances of the pardon--only six of best interest of the countries involved." the 20 questions during the half-hour A new executive order will soon clamp L Sail boats cross St. Joseph's Lake on sunny afternoons. ) session dealt with other subjects. tighter control on access to income tax 
'~------------~~~--------~ 
I 





Tuesday, September 17, 1974 
warld 

briefs 
THE HAGUE <UPU-Three Japanese guerrillas occupying the French Embassy freed two weeping women hostages today, but kept nine men to bargain for safe passage out of Holland with a comrade sprung from a Paris jail. 
ST. PAUL. Minn <UPH-A federal judge Monday dismissed all charges against American Indian Movement leaders Dennis Banks and Russell Means in the 8 month old Wounded Knee trial following the serious illness of a woman juror. The judge's decision was based on the government's refusal to let the 11 other jurors decide the case. 
ROSTON <lJPI>-Some 800 stick-wielding policemen on motor­cycles, horseback and afoot repeatedly drove back a jeering, cursing crowd of whites in Irish Catholic South South Boston Monday when they tried to march in protest of court-ordered in­tegration. At least 22 persons were arrested. 
MOSCOW IUPI>-Bulldozers, water trucks and burly police barreled in Sunday to disperse about 500 men, women and children gathered in a Moscow suburb for an unsanctioned exhibit of ab­stract art. 
WASIIINGTON <UPI>-Senate Democratic Leader Mike Man­sfield Monday urged swift passage of a resolution to make public all of Richard M. Nixon's White House papers, documents, memoranda and tapes. , 
Mansfield's resolution, which has already been forwarded to the Government Operations Committee, would not be binding. 
an campus tada.Y 
3:30pm lecture, basic computer language, 113 computing center 
5:00 pm vespers, evensong, log chapel 
7:00-9:30 pm meeting, placement night for arts & letters seniors and grad students, eng aud. 
7:30 pm lecture, transcendential meditation-introduction, library aud. 

Home h tlall S:turcbvs 


Concessions need permits 
by Norm Bower Staff Reporter 

Permits for the campus food concessions on this year's home football Saturdays will again be limited, according to Fr. Dave Schlaver, director of student ac­
tivities. 
Schlaver noted that this policy actually benefits the serving organizations, because it limits competition and improves the chances for realizing a profit. "By setting a limit, it's not all so cut­throat," he said. 
Only those halls and University organizations who register with the Student Activities Office by 5 p.m., Thursday, September 19, will be allowed to run food stands. After sign-ups, a lottery will assign game dates to the groups. 
Designation of concession sites is conducted two ways. Hall representatives usually sell near their own hall, while organizations are randomly assigned to locations. 
Schlaver mentioned that with this year's six home games, groups may get as many as three different opportunities to run the stands. 
"Even with limits, it's not easy to make the maximum profits of 50 to 80 dollars," Schlaver said. 
Th• ()her,_ II publllhed deity during ttl• coll-e• Mm.etw •xupt vec:atlona bV th• ltuellntl of ttte Unlvwlltv of Notn O.me end St. MMy'l Cotl.... Sublcrlptlonl mav be purch•Md for • per Hmfttw In• per vHrl from TM OltMrver Box Q, Notre Deme,

r 
lndl•n• •us.. Secoftd ci•H 

~ 
post... peld, Notr• Deme, Incl. 46556. 
' 
r 
"Gimmicks and specialty things and Safety Manager Edward are being used more and more to Riley's guidelines will be required get away from being just a hot-dog of all concession managers. Those stand.'' in charge of the stands must keep 
Health standards will still be in the permit in order to prove effect this year. Compliance with registration in case they are the Occupational Safety and questioned by Riley's office Health Act and Universit Health ·in the Security De artment. 
SENIOR TRIP PEOPLE: 
Your $180 balance is due no later than this Friday, Sept. 20. You will forfeit your deposit if the money isn't paid by this Friday. You can send the money to 
Senior Oass of 1975 Box 114 
Notre Dame 
or bring it to us from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. every. day this week in the Nbrrissey Loan Fund (LaFortune's basement). Please also bring or send to us the hotel room fa 111. 
Questions may be referred to: 
Greg Ericksen 283-3687 Bob Spann 233-6247. Chris Fenn 2·83-6487 
Joe H enderlong 234-1673 
----~--------~-­
lV/acheca coJJ~J:entson pantyraids morality rules and alchohol use 
by Doug Meyers Staff Reporter 

The two recent panty raids on St. Mary's were discussed during a meeting last night with Dean of Students John Macheca in Fisher Hall. Macheca said he had heard about "a lot of distasteful things that happened during the raids." 
When asked what action the University could take about the destruction of property Macheca said there were two possibilities that have been brought up. This "early fall ritual has deteriorated," he said, especially this year. We can't send Notre Dame security to St. Mary's without leaving someone else in charge since security is respon­sible for the dorms on this campus. 
One possibility would be to have the Rectors and R.A.'s put in charge here so security could be sent to SMC. Another possibility is to break up the raids on campus before they left for SMC. 
Asked how damages to St. Mary's were going to be paid, l\1acheca said he wasn't sure if Notre Dame or .St. Mary's in­surance would pay for damages in this case. This led to a discussion of why SMC is the target rather than Notre Dame's women's dorms."Maybe the men feel that if the raid is here, they will have to face the consequences, but at St. Mary's they feel that nothing will happen to them," Macheca suggested. 
Macheca rejected the idea of fining anyone caught during a raid since those caught might not have done any damages. 
When· asked what exactly the sexuality rule provided Macheca said that the University stands by the Catholic position on pre­marital sex. "Punishment varies on the particular case." The SLC part of our society and hopefully it tried to clarify the meaning of the can have an appropriate role here. rule at the end of last year and We can learn to deal with it. He "will work on the rule again soon." said that he favors the 18-year-old 
Also discussed was the drinking drinking law because he believes issue. Macheca said that sending students deserve more respon­people off campus doesn't solve the sibility and "responsibility brings alcohol . "Alcohol is a big accounta " 

IMPERIAL MUSIC ; # ## # 
IN COLLEGE SQUARE ~j# # IS PJDVIlG! 
AND 'AEVE GOT REDUCTI<l'JS UP T0 50% 
Sheet Music Acoustic instruments 
Electric Guitars Amplifiers 
713 :M:KIH.E.Y 259-1573 
ng fly 

T h is is t h e o n Iy t i m e f o r the St. Mary's students to learn to defend 
DONG SIK KIM(MASTER INSTRUCTOR 6th Degree B Ia ck Be It PLACE: St. Mary's Coffee Shop 
Time: Sept. 17, 7 pm 


Agent 
'learafter vear~ serfie~ter Iarter semester~ the CollegeMaster· from Fidelitv Union Life has oc-cn tfie most acceptL'd 
most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call th~ Fidelity Union College Master·· Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
Agent 





Tuesday September 17, 1974 
the' observer 




Group seeks l:stter alumni relations 
by David Rust Staff Reporter 

A rejuvenated Student-Alumni Relations Group <SARG) is setting up a program of activities on both national and regional levels to better acquaint students with Notre Dame's Alumni Association. 
"We're trying to do away with the neglect of students by the Alumni," explained. Paul ttoiowczak, assistant executive director of the Association, and SARG's director. 
SARG is composed of 18 students, eight women and ten men, selected through the Alumni office, and representing different class years, majors and ex­tracurricular interests. 
Holowczak, a 1973 graduate of Notre Dame. said that he is the man responsible for conducting SARG's transformation from "a link between students and alumni for the alumni's benefit" to "a link between both for the equal benefit of both." 
"I've recognized since I've been here that the problem with the alumni is getting students in­volved," said Holowczak. "We make no effort to tell them_ anything about the Association during their four years here, and then, suddenly at the end they're bombarded with questionmiires asking them to join. 
SARG sees its role as "beginning a program of presenting the alumni to students" in different functions, said Holowczak. 
Historically speaking, SARG saw its peak of activity in 1969-72, but in a role which differed from the present emphasis. Those were the years of student protest at Notre Dame, and alumni, anxious to understand what was going on at their alma mater, were asking questions about the direction in which the University was moving. 
SARG, which had been in existence several years previous to 1969, sent panels of students to regional alumni clubs, explaining the. reasons behind the protests, and fielding questions from con­cerned alumni about the effect on their school. 
Holowczak, who was a student at the time, believes the panels were a substantial success, but the need decreased as the campus became relatively calm. Consequently, SARG headed back into obscurity, even though it remained active in helping with organization of alumni activities on campus. 
"I think students in general don't have an awareness of the Alumni Association or of what it does," he said. "The Association has a responsibility to itself to show 
itself to students since today's 
students are tomorrow's alumni." 
Since the beginning of this school 
year the group has been meeting 
about once every two weeks, and 
has come up with a program of 
several "sure" events and several 
other possibilities. 
One of the program's first fruits 
was organizing in conjunction with 
alumni clubs, of "Freshmen 
Sendoffs," events in which in­
coming freshmen were invited to 
gatherings of students and alumni 
prior to their entrance into the 
University. Holowczak felt that 
several of these were particularly 
successful. 
The Indianapolis Club initiated 
last year what it called a "career 
night," an idea which SARG hopes 
to expand by sending out career 
night packets to the various 
regional clubs, presenting 
Assocation suggestions on how 
career nights should be run. 
The event involves inviting students of the club area to an evening dinner, where alumni in the different professions--law, medicine , the arts and sciences, ·business, etc.--talked with them and tried to give them some insight 
into their respective fields. 
• SARG is also continuing to send student panels to club meetings to talk about their honest reactions to Notre Dame, and Holowczak 

Supreme NATO commander 
Alexander Haig appointed 
WASHINGTON (UPI) President Ford Monday an­nounced the appointment of Gen. Alexander M. Haig Jr. as supreme commander of NATO and commander of American forces in Europe. 
Haig, 49, who succeeds Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster, will assume the North Atlantic Treaty Organization post Dec. 15 and take over command of 
U.S. troops Nov. 1. He is expected to give up his job as White House chief of staff on Friday. 
"I'm honored," Haig told reporters of his new post in the military. 
Ford's selection of Haig was approved unanimously by NATO's defense planning com­mittee in Brussels Mom:!ay, although the Dutch government had previously indicated it would oppose him because of his close association with Richard M. Nixon during the latter's final beleaguered year as president. 
Haig, who retired from military service in August, 1973, on a full pension, will be restored to active duty by Ford. Goodpaster, 59, who became the s11preme NATO commander in July. 1969, will retire. 
In a statement· the 14 NATO 
governments on the planning 
committee "expressed their 
lasting gratitude for Gen. 
Goodpaster's distinguished ser­
vice," the White House state­
ment said. "On behalf of the 
American people, President 
Ford joins in extending his 
appreciation to Gen. Goodpast­
er for a job well done." 
There · was no immediate 
word on whether Ford intends 
to appoint a successor as chief 
of staff. A transition team 
recommended that this function 
be shared by six top advisers, 
rather than one man. 
Ford now has three top 
advisers handling his White 
House policy planning. They 
are White House counselors Marsh, a former Virginia Democratic congressman, and counsel Philip W. Buchen, who holds Cabinet rank. 
The change in the White House top command had long 
been rumored. Haig, a profes­sional soldier, was asked by Ford to remain on during the transition period after Nixon's resignation Aug. 9, but his role became more and more tenuous as the "Ford team" appeared to resent his presence. 
Haig has persistently denied friction between the Nixon holdovers and senior advisers of the Ford administration, but privately expressed bitterness over several new reports portraying him as a Nixon 
loyalist  who  was  unable  to  
adapt to  Ford's style.  
Haig,  a  four-star  general,  

served in the White House from 1970 to 1973 as deputy national security affairs adviser under Henry A. Kissinger. In Janua­ry, 1973, he was appointed Armv vice chief of staff. 
When H.R. Haldeman was forced to resign as White House chief of staff on April 30, 1973, as the Watergate cover-up began to unravel, Nixon sum­moned Haig to assume the post. Haig did so reluctantly but has said frequently he could not reject a commander-in-chief's request. 
Haig and Nixon's chief Watergate lawyer, James D. St. Clair, began to advise Nixon of his diminishing chances to remain in office after they learned the content of the June 23, 1972, tape of talks between Nixon and Haldeman which showed Nixon participated in the cover-up six days after the Watergate break-in. 
Haig is a native of Phila­delphia and attended Notre Dame for a year before going to the U. S. Military Academy. He served in the Vietman War and later returned several times as Nixon's emissary for consultations with South Viet­namese President Nguyen Van Thieu. 

Ri>t>ert Hartmann and John ·o:.~·..:.·...-..:.·.:.·..-........._____. _. _. --·-·-·-·-·------H-Ig:;;h,;,;w,;,;a;;.:y,;,;S:.:l.:.,J~m:.:;i.~ 
ROCK & ROLL NITELY 
(Except Tuesday)~ ~~ ~ 
,~ 
................................() 

~ .;~ \ S F R 0 M l A S V E G As:. ~ .l'\l'l cc. cc. ~ "SHPNGO" ••• • • -~ 
............................. ~ 
MO N NilES -PIZZA SPECIAL & tl' 25~DRAFT BEER WED NilES-DRtNK &DR 0 W N TH U RS NIT E S -PITCHER B E E R NITE 
VVHTE HOUSE I~ 
"T H'E IN PLACE"
2839N 5th 683-9842 

Just 8 mi. north of the state line. Take U.S. 31 to Niles, then north on , ', •..• _. _ 
confirmed that, as in the past, a club is always encouraged to invite students from its area to any of its functions. 
Much SARG-sponsored activity is slated for the campus, though. On Sept. 23 at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall, SARG will sponsor a showing of 1973 football highlights, in preparation for the Purdue game. 
"If we can get a suitable location, we'll show films like these before each home game," said Holowczak. Such films would probably include vintage Knute Rockne game films from the ar­chives and other movies rarely seen by students. 
SARG also plans to sponsor a slide presentation called "Notre Dame Review," which is a 45­minute audio-visual treatment of the history of the University. The review, originally created to show to returning alumni on football Saturday mornings, is "full of interesting information on Notre Dame that few are familiar with," said Holowczak. 
Plans now call for either dr­culating the review through the residence halls, or finding a central location and giving several showings. 
The projected Alumni Spring ~eek~nd would bring a "putting each man in a guys' dorm, and each woman in a girls' dorm, with SARG members." They would arrive Thursday night,· attend Friday classes, and spend the weekend "getting firsthand glimpses of what it means to be a Notre Dame student today," said Holowczak. 
If the program, which sputtered last spring and had to be tem­porarily put aside, works their year, SARG hopes to expand it to include many more than 20 couples. 

"The problem with the alumni is getting students involved," claims 
maXImum of 20 couples to the' Paul Holowczak Director of 
campus," explained Holowczak, SARG. ' 
HALLS or CLUBS \YCJnting CCN:ESSIQ\JS PERMTS for HQ\Ji: F<X>TBALL Vvt:EKENDS MJST APPLY TO STUil:NT ACflVITIES a=FICE 
(L~TUNE)  BY lHJRSDAY,  
SEPT. 19 at Spm  Telephone 7308  
:  ~  

ADULT THEATRES X 2 F1LIV5 
X BOCI(ST(EE 
X LIVE FI.CXJI SHOW 
1316 SaJrH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282·1206 FOR INFORMATION 

TICKETS ON SALE MAIL ORDERS TO: 
IT BOX-OFFICE 
MORRIS CIVIC AUD. 11 II TO 5 PM 211 II. MICHIGAN ST. DAILY 
(EICEPT SUI.) . .SO.•,BEID•.IICD. 46601. . , 'STAMPED RETURN ENVELOPE 



•
Left 1n the lurch 

--hugh harman------­
Never having received Lie benefits of a Catholic education (probably due at least in part to my parents' Protestantism) I find myself sorely lacking in the knowledge of the fine!r points of thefrom the area of Alumni Hall the. same time that students are 
first day he began his route. pressing for higher grades in order Catholic mythos. I didn't even know the story behind the Grotto 'til Anyone knowing the location of a to improve their opportunities for ~chanced upon the movi~ "The Song of Bernadette" last year. Still rust-eolored Sting-Ray boys' bike advance studies, graduate, law, m all, I have been fascmated by the Catholic hagiology among

Sales pitch? 
please call 233-6319. and medical admisson boards find others by St. Augustine .Ina class of mortals of doubtful div'inity he has always seemed one of the more worthy of the lot. ' 

Yesterday Krista was leaving it increasingly difficult to trust Dear Mr. Pears: Breen-Phillips Hall and found a transcripts as indicators of per­
St. Augustine once gave as the only rule of Christian conductmale boarding her bike. Caught in formance and potential. As a 'Love God and do as you like'. The implication is, of course, that if We are writing to you in regards the act of stealing this one, he result, such boards are inclined to you truly love God, you can't help but to act in a Christian manner.

to the "salesman" soliciting changed his mind and left it. These pay less attention to grades, and to 
magazine subscriptions in various two kids are performing a service place more weight on such in­Equally, Jesuit priests, upon leaving the Holy See, are not given a gold embossed twenty volume bound set of inscribed rules
halls during the past few days. It on campus and should not have to dicators as "objective" test governing their conduct. Their training and the guidance given would be beneficial to you and the contend with such low-grade scores. The problem and its them are a guarantee that wherever they may go, whateverstudents to be made aware of the tactics. Cheap shot, wouldn't you paradoxes escalate right along with 
tactics of this "salesman". In Zah­say!? the grades. situation they may face, they will always act in accordance with the society and the precepts of Christianity. 
m Hall alone, there were many Yours truly, · I have no answer, but think it The question is, though, why our Catholic Administration has not 
instances of questionable, if not Mrs. J.R. Kennedy might not be premature for this picked up on these revolutionary ideas. It might seem that the
illegal, behavior. community to begin facing the majority of them would have run across them somewhere in their
He was all things to all people. problem squarely. If we keep on education. However, our campus is faced instead with an Ad­
Among his sales pitches, he making untested assumptions, and ministration which would seem to prefer the twenty volume set of

Grade gripe

presented himself as a Vietnam if we are content to offer nothing embossed rules & so instead of guidance and guidelines we are the veteran and also a seminarian. more than cosmetic solutions, recipients of rules and laws. The specific reference is of course toHowever, this was to be expected eventually the Dean's List GPA the anti-sexuality rule.
Dear Mr. Drape: will top out at 4.0, every student

since during the four hours he was in Zahm, he used three different Mr. Ed Byrne's letter, in your will automatically be awarded an 
Friday the Thirteenth issue, "A" in every course,all the The difference between guidlelines and their instruction and the names. 

He not only lacked the proper prompts me to write. While Mr. teachers will be popular, all the dictation of rules is enormous. Guidelines presuppose a maturity, University permission to solicit in Byrne raises a number of issues students will be happy, none of the common sense, and a level of morality in the guidelines. Rules do 
which warrant-and, I am sure, teachers and none of the students not. Guidelines point the way. Rules and laws rule off all three

a residence hall, but when con­fronted by an R.A., he lied about will get--further attention, in-will see any reason to waste time in possibilities. ?ur new student guidebook 'dulac', states that "good 
having the permission of the eluding the perennial question of classrooms, and a Notre Dame la~.s are an aid ~o moralit~"· Only in the sense that a good elec­social life at Notre Dame his degree will be utterly meaningless. trified barbed Wire fence IS an aid to keeping cattle on their best
assistant rector. Also, he 
behavior. It might be instructive to review what other Catholic

fraudulently used the names of remarks about the Dean's List Then we could shut down the administrators think on the subject of guielines vs. rules, courtesy three R.A.'s to convince students strike a responsive chord. Grades, Registrar's Office, quit selling of the Observer's poll.
to buy his "magazine sub­like women, seem to be a perennial football tickets, raise money by 
scriptions". Even though all his problem here. hawking degrees through the mail, The clearest statement of St. Augustine's 'Love God and do as subscriptions may not exist, to one Mr. Byrne's letter expresses the dedicate ourselves to the exclusive you like' comes from Fr. Suave of Marquette University who said student, he sold a twenty four assumption that escalating grades pursuit of social intercourse, and "Since we subscribe to the Christian ethic, it's more of a common 
sense thing. We don't need any moral rules."Otherrestatementsof 

dollar subscription for a magazine reflect improvements in the in-convert Notre Dame into a which his "company" does not telligence, diligence, and residential apartment complex for St. Augustine's principle come from Fr. Hanrahan of Boston 
College ("Since we adopt the Catholic belief, it's all rather implicit 

supply. academic zeal of the student body. unemployed illiterates. 
that we don't believe in premarital sex, but we don't have it writtenIt should be noted that the com­This may be a valid assumption; No one here wants this night­down as a rule".) and from Stonehill College ("The school believes 

pany he claimed to represent then again, it may not be. Certain mare to come true. In fact, I am in the Christian moral system, there is nothing in writing aboutappears to be a legitimate firm. It reports, published recently, suffi~iently impressed by the moral systems except for the basic colle~e guides.")
seems plausible to assume that he suggest that there are other reasons quahty of Notre Dame's un­is an employee of it. for escalating grades, ranging dergraduates to suspect that some We would like to know what the from democratization of higher of them are even committed to Perhaps the most frightening aspect of the Notre Dame (read University plans to do in this case. education in America to slippage "scholarly pursuits" voluntarily, Catholic) rule of sexuality is the awful toll exacted from those who 
Also, what precautions are being in American academic standards, and are neither "forced into" them tran~gres~ it. One. might indeed expect that Christian guides for takt.m to prevent future cases like or from the increase in student "by existing social conditions" nor dealing With the violators of such rules would include forgiveness this of unethical and illegal influence over teachers' careers to look upon them as distractions or at least an attempt at rehabiliatation. "Another ex­solicitation? If you need any the teachers' concern for the which interfere with college life. A pectation ... would be that offenders (would) be dealt with patiently 
further details and-or other welfare of students liable for the few even appreciate being and personally, more to help than to punish". "Notre Dame assistance in this matter, there are draft. Any of these assumptions reminded occasionally, through represents th~ r,ar~dox of faith ..whichextends more compassion to 
many people who would be glad to might be correct, and perhaps they the agency of a grade lower than those who fail . ( du Lac', the new guidebook) A look at the help. all contain some truth. "A", that they dQ not yet know penalties imposed upon the violators of the anti-sexuality rule 
I have no answer for the problem everythi_!lgand that they, like their would seem to make the above statements hypocritical at best. Respectfully, of grade escalation, and indeed teachers, still enjoy the op­The students involved in the trangressions were certainly not Douglas A. Cox doubt that anyone on this campus portunity to learn. entirely forgiven t~eir 'sins' and, worse, neither were they ap­Zahm Hall President does. But I know that it is a par~ntly treated with any degree of compassion nor was the Rev. Thomas Tallarida, CSC problem. Those of us who are still But since this appears to be the pumshme~t meted out by any measure rehabilitative. Okay guys, Zahm Hall Rector sufficiently Neanderthal in outlook case, perhaps the whole com­so what gives? 
Philip B. McKiernan to believe that "B-minus" is a munity should find some time, in 
Resident Assistant, Zahm Hall "good" grade (see the 1974-1975 between debates about social life Ov_e~ the ~ast year, the only apparent justification given by our Faculty Handbook, page 39), in­and University priorities, to adm1mstrat1on for the anti-sexuality rule was based on the con­deed a bettter grade than a Gen­discuss and explore the problem of cel?ts of_ o~ school's Christianity and tied in with the vague tleman's C, discover that we are grading together. At least we alhteratl~n. th.e co~rage t~ be Catholic'. It appears now that the 
might even discover that some only Chnstlamty with which the Administration can be linked is

Cheap shot 
considered "tough" markers 

whose "fairness" is occasionally equitable, usuable, and mutually that ~f the Protes~nt ~uritans of 17th centtiry New England and Dear Editor: agreeable solution is possible. not With the humamtar1an Christan traditions of St. Augustine and 
questioned, and find that the 

My son John, 13, is a carrier for population of our courses is the South Bend Tribune on the decling. But there are other 
Notre Dame campus. He is dimensions to the problem as well, assisted by his 11 year old sister, some of which affect the students 
Krista. John's bike was stolen adversely. For instance, 
DOONESBURY 

~ 70WARPS THAT GOA/.., EQVAL. OfJPOI'miNITY RJR 
"IIIlTH THC APY£NT OF 
7H& VN/V&RSITYI«JM£/tS 

ATHt&TIC AG50CIATION ~ THeRE 15 NOW A 
IUQ41&N IN CIJU£6/ATE 

HAS PRCPAR£lJ A BRieF NHP TO UJ(}CA7E ATHI£!&5 
'61/IIJE 7lJ IIIOM&N / ABOVT 7Hc SPOR75 
/ IN Sl'tJI(TS."' SITVATION AS IT Cll!lR£N1lY 
at the 
k/HAT fOtt.OaS AI<£ SOH& a= 
1H& MOST fl¥/}VCN!l-Y ASKBJ 
QI/&51/CWS AfJ()(JT f,(,.f»f!W_ 
WHICH W&U 1/?Y TO ANSII/&Il.. 
HER£ IN PlAIN, 5/MPU 
/ /AN(3(J,46&. 
the Carpenter of Nazareth. Cordially, Hopeful}~ ~e can return to those traditions through the enact­ment of gu1dmg statements of policy and not rules. To quote an Bob Kerby Observer editorial "Our Catholic .traditior. ·deserves no less." 
by Garry Trudeau 
/.II/HAT &XfJCTlY IS A "WOMAN"? 
I OH. UIOII­
.z:vc'ALIU4Y5 
BeeN AFR.At/J TO ASK! '; 
the observer. 

Night Editor: Thomas O'Neil Ass't Night Editor--Danny Sanchez Layout--Diana Wilson, Bob Varettonl, Don 
Longano, Franz Lanzlnger, Jim Stevens Copy Reader--Pat Hanifin, Jeanne Murphy, and 
Jim Eder Day Editor--Tom Russo Editorials--Bill Brink, Tom Drape Sports--Bill Delaney, Bill Brink Typists--Barb Norcross, Barb Haug, Tom 
Modglin, Jim Lanldls, Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator--Phil Orscheln Picture Screener--Ai D'Antonio Night Controller--Howard Halle 
Tuesday September 17, 1974 the observer 



Ford offers limited aiDil£Sty plan 
by Richard Lerner 

WASHINGTON <UPI) -President Ford Monday offered conditional amnesty to an estimated 28,000 Vietnam war resisters in return for up to two years' public service and an oath of allegiance. He called it "an act of mercy to bind the nation's wounds." 
Spokesman for draft evaders and military deserters in Canadt. and Sweden denounced the plan as "absurd" and "a gross miscarriage of justice," and predicted few would accept it. 
Ford's proclamation, twice delayed while he dealt with the Nixon pardon and economic issues, offered conditional amnesty to those who deserted or evaded the draft between Aug. 4, 1964, and March 28, 1973, the date the United States withdrew its last soldiers from Vietnam. 
Those wishing rehabilitation and freedom from prosecution must surrender to a U.S. attorney or military official before next Jan. 
31. Basically, they will then earn forgiveness by: 
-Agreeing to perform "a period of alternate service in the national interest" in such areas as public health and safety jobs but not including "the privilege" of military service. Ford set the service period at 24 months but said it could be reduced in in­dividual cases at the recom­mendation of various designated officials or a clemency board 
St. Marys student 
lees explained 
by Annette Buzinski Staff Reporter 

The $27 Activity Fee levied against each St. Mary's student will be used to support activities ranging from Student Government to Notre Dame publications. 
Elli Quinn, treasurer of St. Mary's Student Government, stated that the Saint Mary's student activity fee consists of five sections, two of which are required and three are optional. The first required fee is for the Saint Mary's Student Government. The $10 acquired from each student sup­,'JOrts activities in which all Saint Mary's students participate. SMC also has a booth at the Notre Dame Mardi Gras held in October. 
The second mandatory payment is turned over to the Notre Dame Student Government. The $4 per Saint Mary's student finances such social activities as An Tostal, Mardi Gras, jazz festivals, and movies which are shown at reduced rates. 
The ND student newspaper the Observer, Saint Mary's yearbook the Blue Mantle, and Scholastic magazine receive the optional donations. The Blue Mantle yearbook fee is $9 per student, and subcriptions to the Observer and Scholastic, are both $2. 
Quinn cites that of the 1622 students enrolled in Saint Mary's, 140 did not pay the required $14. As for the Observer fee, 1109 students contributed. Only 833 students paid for Scholastic and 1062 pur­<'hased the yearbook, Quinn stated. 
As a result of a decision made last year, St. Mary's Student Government instead of the Busi~ess Office, is handling collection of student fees. Quinn is sending letters to the 140 students who are delinquent in paying the mandatory fees. · 
established by the proclamation. 
-Taking an oath of "allegiance to the country and its con­stitution". 
The proposed wording of the oath of allegiance runs as follows: 
"I name do hereby solemnly reaffirm my allegiance to the United States of America. I will support, protect and ~efend the Constitution of the Umted States against all enemies, foreign and domestic, and will hereafter bear true faith and allegiance to the 
same. 
"I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion, so help me GOO." 
A SIY.)kesman for the Selective Service, which will administer the alternate service program, said about half the amnesty workers would likely serve in hospitals or homes for the aged or children. He said many others would find work in conservation or with religious service groups. 
In addition to social rehabilitation military deserters will first rec~ive an undesirable discharge--a category considered less punitive than dishonorable­and, upon completion of. alternat~ service, a "clemency discharge not affording any veterans benefits. 
"Desertion in time of war is a major, serious offense," Ford said. "Failure to respond to the coun­

try's call of duty is also a serious offense. Reconciliation among our people does not require that these acts be condoned. 
"Yet reconriliation calls for an act of mercy to bind the nation's wounds and to heal the scars of divisiveness." 
Ford briefed congressional leaders on the plan before making it public and they told newsmen it would have the support of both Congress and the military. 
But spokesmen for anti-war and amnesty groups reacted with disappointment and hostility. 
"It's a coverup, it's not am­nesty," said Dee Knight, a member of the National Council For Universal and Unconditional Amensty in Washington, D.C. 
Fzratum 
Due to a typographical error that appeared in yesterday's Observer a passage from Fr. Bill Toohey's column was inadvertently misrepresented. The passage should read as follows : 
''Trust is called for from all the members of the community. The highest administrators have to trust that an appropriate pastoral response will be made to student behavior problems by those who are best able, through expertise and familiarity with the persons involved and the circumstances." 
\.
'-------------------' 


As a British company we-cllike to explain our 810ax automatic turntable in plain English. 
t-low the 810ax reproduces recorded music accurately. 
The BSR 8100X has a sophisticated synchrooous motor, spinning a heavy 7-lb. platter for accurate speed (regardless of voltage supply or record load) and all-but-nooexistent wow and flutter. Anti-skating force 


may be adjusted for optimum pressure with either cooical or elliptical styli, so stylus sits perfectly centered 
in groove for precise stereo separatioo without audible distortioo or uneven groove wear. A strobe disc is integrated into the platter design and a variable speed cootrol is 


provided should you want to vary 
from, and later return to, the normal speeds. The tooe arm will track as low as 0.25 grams to make use of 
finest light-weight, high-compliance cartridges for maximum fidelity and dynamic range. 
Knight said it was unjust to give Richard M. Nixon unconditional pardon while requiring "further punishment" for the war resisters and predicted "very few, if any" of those who have fled abroad would return. 
In Toronto, spokesmen for the Amex Canada expatriates group called Ford's offer "a gross miscarriage of justice" compared to Nixon's pardon and urged its members to reject it. In Sweden, American exiles called the program "absurd" and "a punish­ment, not an amnesty." 
Ford set up a nine-member Clemency Board to help ad­minister the program. It will deal the cases of those already con­victed of draft evasion offenses or military men already given punitive discharges for unlawful absences. · 
439 So. Michigan 121 So. Main ­220 W. Marion 
Ford urged it to give priority consideration to releasing the estimated 130 persons now im­prisoned for such offenses. 
The White House has estimated there are about 15,500 draft evaders and about 12,500 military deserters at large and eligible for amnesty, including about 4,500 evaders and deserters in Canada. 
Ford assigned the director of the Selective Service to set up the programs of "alternative service" for amnesty applicants. 
He empowered U.S. attorneys, the armed service secretaries and the Secretary of Transportation who has jurisdiction over the Coast Guard and Clemency Board, in various circumstances, to recommend reduced periods of alternate service where "mitigating circumstances" favor an individual. 
-So. Bend Mishawaka -Elkhart 
Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years 
Special Student Discount ·Bring your student ID 
t-low the 810ax protects records and cartridge stylus assembly. 
Tone arm descent is viscous-damped in automatic operation

ri.lii and also when using iii the manual cue and pause control, for gentle contact 
with record surface. Platter rubber mat protects records ~ during play and cushions . 
discs during automatic . . .. 
drop Automatic spindle ··.····-··.·.....
· 
uses umbrella-type suspension, •·• ··.' 
without outboard balance arm. Stub spindle rotates with record to prevent distortion of center hole. 
Stylus setdown adjustment prevents stylus damage if dropped outside of 
range. Tracking pressure adjustable down to 
0.25 grams for newest lightweight cartridges for minimum record 
wear. Stylus brush whisks dust off stylus between 
·.· ·.· ·. ·. · 
plays Lock automatically secures tone arm to prevent damage to stylus from accidental movement Stylus wear meter records accumulated stylus use in hours. Knowing when 

to replace a worn stylus protects your records. 
How the 810 ax provides convenient operation ·in any desired mode. 
After touching a single feather­weight button, the 8100X can either. play a stack of records, shutting off after the last onei play a single record and shut of Cor play a single record, and repeat it indefinitely until you stop it 


· Manual operation uses a single button to start the motor, and the cue control to lower the stylus 
How the 810 ax operates qu~ emitting no sound that can intrude on the nuic. 
The 8100X uses a unique sequential cam drive mechanism. 1t is a rigid 
,••, • ~lfrttll 
precision assembly that replaces the plumber's nightmare of rotating eccentric plates and interlocking gears that other changers use. Unlike other changers, there are no light metal stampings that can go out of aligment and make a lot of noise, from being carried, bumped, or just from use 
For literature write to ~·~w 
BSR (USA) Ltd, Blauvelt, NY 10913. 
McDONALD 



---·---~---------~----------. 

6 th'ti ob's.rv'~t· .......... ;..,~·y:··~~;~r;.ber ·u. 1974 
A6 Universitychaplain 
~-----------.---~-­
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS WISHING TO SKI COMPETITIVELY 
especially women 
NOTRE D1WE. SKI 
Wed. 
TEAM 
Sept. 18 

famal 
7 :30 p m registration La F o r t u n e 
A re c r e a t i o n a I p r o 
9 r a m me e t; n 9 ·I is slated for the near future 
THE J. GEILS BAND 
w'ith 

Thurs. Sept. 19 8:00 p.m. 
MACXE.Y ARENA PUIIDUE UNIV. 
W. Lafayette 
nckets: $2.50. $4.00. $5.50 

Tickets on sale-Thurs. at Mackey Arena 
7:0 0 p.m. sho wtime 
TRAINED 
IT'S 
TEACHERS THE 
FOR 
"NEW" ARTHUR 
TOUCH

MURRAY DANCING
IN CHICAGO TOGETHE 
FOR AGAIN 12 FOR YEARS YOU!! 
Fran DeMarko says 
"IF YOU CAN WALl(, I CAN 
. 
TEAOi YOU TO DANCE" 
/JJ 

NOTRE DAME 
LA F 0 RTUNE 8 ALL R 0 0 M FOR

ALL ALL "On" FUN "On" 
and HOBBY 
and "Off" EXERCISE 

"Off" RELAXATION Campus N E W F R IE N D S May P M E N T Par 
H
and 

cipate
ROMANCE I Just Walk In Mon. Eve Rock Alone • Group ~Oat 
Each Lesson Cha Cha ..• Rhumba We: Samba .•• Tango Change Partners 
Charleston • . • LESSONS Every Minute FUN!! FUN!! EACH MONDAy FUN!! FUN!! COMP LESSONS BEGINNING COMP LESSON 

FOR THE SEPT. 23 FOR THE BAS FO TBALL :r.EAM,·-''AGlitint ·lrish..·ri<ETBA't'Li'EA 


I had classes during the scheduled tim · ·I!at the Freshmen photo directoriewvert> being issued, so I was un-ole to get mine. Is there any way t~'\t I can get it now? 
The extra Freshmen Photo Directories have been saved and are available for those who did not pick them up, at the Service Com­mission in LaFortune. 
When is the deadline for Student Government budget statements? 
The Student Government budget statements must be in by Sep­tember 17. Failure to have it in by then will result in the exlclusion of your organization from the Student Government's budget. 
Will there be any lectures on campus considering abortion? 
The Notre Dame Committee in Defense of Life is holding a lecture this Wednesday, September 18, in the Library Auditorium at 7:30. The speakers will be Dr. Charles Rice of the Notre Dame Law school and Congressional candidate Virginia Black. 

1421 S. Walnut Street (219) 233-~41 South Bend, lndiaha 46627 
SENIOR HOCKEY AT THE "ICE BOX" Pro Shop -Skate Sharpening -2 Rinks -Public Skating -Figure Skating -Lessons -Snacks ­Arcade -Skate Rental -Free Parking 
SENIOR HOCKEY-"CHECK" AND "NO CHECK" DIVISIONS­Play in either or both divisions -16 men per team -Locker rooms with showers available-16 game season with holiday tourney and playoffs -Jerseys and referees furnished -$3.50 per game -Game times 9:15pm and 10:45 pm. SIGN UP NOW for league starting October 18th. 
For more information on this and our other programs call (219) 233-9441 
••••••••••••••••••••••••• SENIOR HOCKEY•••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
2 . 

APPLICATION--­ --­ SEND MORE INFORMATION  
Fri. "CHECK" --­ ---AGE  
Sun. "NO CHECK"  --­ --­ POSITION  

Name--------------------­Address----------------Phone---­
..........-r-•.. ·• 
highlighted an SLC meeting generally devoted to organizational details yesterday. The SLC also agreed to consider the alcohol situation next week. 
A deputation of three senior women from SCMC told the Council that the two recent raids were the most destructive in recent years. "We all realize that a panty-raid is supposed to be a friendly way of letting off steam," Frank Flanagan, chairman of the SLC and student body vice­president said after the meeting. "But we would hope that people use their heads too." 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin and SLC member Denis Sullivan were appointed to prepare a statement on the matter for the SLC. According to Flanagan it will be issued to the Observer and other campus media when it is complete and approved. As chairman of the SLC Flanagan will also write a letter of apology to St. Mary's. 
The rest of the Council meeting was taken up by committee organization reports. The first regular business meeting of the year will be held next Monday, Sept. 23, when Dean Macheca's alcohol directive will be con­sidered. 

Grilfindiscusses new job 
by Patrick Hanifin which has ~wn out of his Keenan Campus Ministry this year, Griffin Staff Reporter Hall Urchins' Mass. "We are said that he would be cooperating going to put into the program all 
with it but "also independent of it." Fr. Robert Griffin, new the things we wanted to put into the Griffin concluded by saying he university chaplain, explained Urchins'' Mass but couldn't feels "very fatherly having this yesterday that he wishes to create because they did not connect with a pastoral role that extends to the a pastoral ministry involving the particular liturgy." Griffin said. entire University. It is a goodentire community. "I have no The new chaplain is also setting feeling." detailedr plans for the entire year up a CCD program in Sacred Heart as 1 yet," he said, "I'm working out Church, primarily for the children my role as I go along." of the faculty. The position of university Griffin emphasized that "My chaplain was created for Griffin Pmlty-raidsmost important responsibility is to late last year. "It carries with it a be open to anyone in the com­good budget and the right to write munity who can use my help." my own job description," he said. 
draw fire 
In earlier years the university 

Initial programs he has chaplain had a job similar to the developed include a series of old prefect of discipline but the job special Masses in the residence lapsed when Campus Ministry was 
Complaints from St. Mary's

halls, arid a children's radio created. 
concerning the recent panty-raids

program on Saturday mornings Regardin~ his connection with 


IVIartiallaw sparks feud betweenohurch and state 
Tuesday, September 17, 1974 the observer 
7 


CLASSIFIED ADS 

MANILA (UPI) The martial law government of President Ferdinand E. Marcos and the Roman Catholic Church in the Philippines appear to be on a collision course. 
Both the government and the church hierarchy evidently still hope to avert a head~n clash, from which neither is likely emerge unscathed in this island nation where about 83 per cent of the 40 million population is Catholic. 
Whether a church-state colli­
sion can be averted may 
depend on how Marcos re­
sponds to an .expected request 
from the Catholic bishops 
conference to ease the martial 
law restrictions he imposed on 
Sept. 21, 1972. 
Since then many liberal 
young priests, some of whom 
have been jailed for their 
opposition to the government, 
have urged the church leader­
ship to challenge the Marcos 
regime, which they view as 
repressive.
But many of the bishops and 
older priests are inclined to 
avoid such a confrontation. 
The event that may have 
spurred the bishops into action 
was the helicopter raid on the 
Sacred Heart novitiate at 
Novaliches, 12 miles north of 
Manila, in late August. One 
priest and 20 college students 
were taken to Camp Crame, 
where thousands of alleged 
subversives have been jailed 
under martial law. 
Marcos subsequently met 
with church leaders and told them of the dangers of subversion. But he also banned arbitrary raids on religious institutions and ordered the release of the priest and 13 others arrested at the novitiate. The seven others are presuma­bly still being held. 
By the time Marcos had acted, however, Archbishop Jaime L. Sin of Manila had called for a "vigil of prayer" to seek justice for those detained under martial law. 
Around 5,000 persons attended the service, which provided the first public show of opposition to the government since the imposition of martial law. 
Sin, who had not previously criticized the government, pro­tested the raid, saying, "We believe in the principle of separation of church and state." He also disputed the version published in the govern­ment-controlled press. 
Many priests in the Philip­pines, both foreign and Filipino, were pleased that the archbish­op had taken a public stand. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Cope. '74 Gen'l Features Corp. ACROSS 46 Savory meat 1 Persevere jellies7 Quick, hard blow48 Unusual person 
11 Devoured or thing: Lat. 14 Melodious 50 -for (defend) 15 A long way off 52 V.P. John ­
16 Reading, 'riting, Garner 
and 'rithmetic 53 Defense men at 17 Flotsam football 18 Vintner's baggy 55 Purplish-brown 
ship in Indonesia 9 Paths in a race Ireland 45 Wolf or ranger 10 International 57 Compass pt. 

receptacle 20 Encourages 22 Britisher's 
coffee break 23 Drench 26 Standing27 President Tyler 
was one 28 Actress Turner 30 Clumsy 31 Old Testament 
book 32 Comprehended34 Longing 35 Pilfers 36 Evian, for one 39 Faithless one 40 Frolic 41 "And a merry 
old soul -" 44 Chinese-owned 

antelopes of 
Africa 
58 Before 
59 Do a publishingjob 60 Natural fats 61 Moines or Plaines 
62 Size of paper
63 Playground unit DOWN 1 Owned 
2 Copenhagen coin 42 Looking hard at 3 Wine, for 43 Mace, ginger, 
example etc. 4 June beetles 47 "Swedish" 5 Pliable branchlet leather 6 Currently popu-49 Aromatic plant 
lar theme 51 Demure 7 Gossip: Slang 54 Barnyard sight 8 "What-?" 56 Sweetheart, in 
agreements 11 Voyager with 
Noah 12 Put in order ·13 Composer Bloch 19 Trivet, for one 21 Illuminated, as 
the heavens 23 Oscillate 24 Alas and alack 25 Lawmaker 29 Reservoir in 
New York 33 Speaks at length35 Having sun spots 36 Certain 
Yugoslavs 37 Mrs.~ in Poland 38 Affirmative votes 39 Luxuriant 40 Appease41 Squandered 
WANTED 
Want to sell 4 season tickets and want to buy 3 GA tickets to Miami or Pitt. Call 232-6790 after midnight on Mon, Tues, or wed. 
Need: 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call 233-5925. 
Need one student tix for Northwestern game. Call 7659. 
Need 4 GA fix to Rice. Call 4726. 
Need 1 Purdue ticket. Call Pam, 5185. 
Need 3 GA tix to Army. Call Randy, 272-7198. 
Must have 1 Purdue ticket, GA or student. Call Joe, 1132. 
Need 2 GA Purdue tix. Call Bob, 3374. 
Wanted:  2  GA  tix  for  
Purdue.  Call  Larry,  288­ 
7375.  

Need 4 to 6 GA tix for Pitt or Miami. Call 288-2613. 
Need 2 GA tix to Rice or Army games. Willing to pay $. Call Jim, 6764. 
Desperately need Purdue tix, GA or student. Call Joe, 3663. 
Wanted: 2 GA tix for Pitt game. Call Bob, 283-3019. 
Need 2 GA Rice tix. Please call Steve, 289-9379. 
Desperately need A GA tix for Miami. Call Rich, 6981. 
Need 1 Rice ticket. Will pay $. Call Scott, 1205. 
Desperately need one GA Pittsburg ticket. Will pay any reasonable price. Call 232-3874. 
Wanted: ride to Washington DC. Able to leave S. Bend on Wed, Thurs, or Fri, Sept 19, 20. 21. Will share gas and driving. Call Martha Walsh, 234-3306. 
Need 3 GA Miami tix. Call Mark. 8420. 
Top.dollar paid for four GA Rice tickets. Call Dave, 6818. 
Need 2 GA tix for Purdue game. Call Bob, 234-1889 
lnPIRG Town ~eting, Thurs. Sept 19, 1 pm;\l.C. LaFortune. Find out what you can do! 
lnPIRG office hours: 1 . 3 pm, Student Govt Offices, 2nd floor LaFortune. PH 7668 or 6413, ext 6. 
EUPHORIA (RECORDS AND TAPES) IS BACK. CHEAP? WE BEAT ALL SOUTH BEND PRICES. SPECIAL FOR DEAD FREAKS: DEAD ALBUMS, 
RIDICULOUSLY CHEAP, 
UNTIL  THURS.  WE  
DELIVER  TO  ND  
STUDENTS.  CALL  234­ 
6535.  

Money? Morissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFortune, 11:15 -12:15 daily. 
PERSONALS 
Interested in joining a poker club? Call Ed, 272­3709. 
Attention D.R., Please call 1346 im­mediately! R2 SB 
Crazy Lady: What? Yoga over the Band. Tsk, tsk. Cannibal 
Patrick T. Happy 18th! Renee 
FOR SALE 
24 Hour TV Service, 7 days a week -Sundays and Holidays. Color TV's $60.00 and up. Stereos $50.00 and up. Western Electronics, 1530 Western Ave., 282-1955. 
For sale: Electrovoice -18 speakers, 3-way, 12" woofer, 5" midrange, 120 degrees high frequency dispersion. $225 pr. Call 277­0151. 
For sale: one Slazenger tennis racket, $12.00. One Dunlop Maxply racket, $22.00. Both excellent condition. Jeff, 6161. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lookout! Lost: one whole key Sargent. TW5. Reward. 1575. 
Reward for return of green spiral notebook and-or Computer Data Processing book "accidentally" taken from South Dining Hall 9·5. Please give back -no questions asked. 235 Walsh, 8093. 
Lost: gold wire-rimmed glasses and blue wind­breaker. Call Mike at 3134. 
Lost Wed night at Uncle Willie's -brown wallet. Desperately need all identification. Reward. Mark. 313 Alumni, 1175.· 
Lost: pair of brown glasses somewhere between Turtle Creek and Marquette. PH 277-0838. 
Lost: woman's silver wristwatch saturday night in the vicinity of Flanner Hall. Reward. Call 4238. 
Lost: ND class rir1g. Gold with inscription DJB. Call Dennis. 282-1791. 
NOTICES 
Pandora's Books buys used texts and paperbacks dailY. 
2:30 -3:30 except on Sun­days. Ten percent cash or 40 percent credit. 
N D Backpackers' Meeting. Tuesday, 8 pm, LaFortune Auditorium. 
SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE FROM 12:15 ­
5:00 MWF AND 11:00-1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TTH. 
Anyone  who  has  studied  
Aikido  and  would  like  to  
practice again  or  anyone  

who would like to study Aikido, please contact John, 287-6830. 
TALISMAN NOW AVAILABLE FOR DAN· CES, CONCERTS, PAR· TIES, AND PRE-GAME 
PERFORMANCES.  FOR  
INFORMATION,  CALL  
~:9895.  



SPmD A WEEXEK> 
IN REFLECI10N AND amiS'I1AN UVING 
with 

JOHN DUNNE, <X: 
At Old College 
Sept. 20 -22 ( Fri., e v • to S u n • m o r n • ) 
$6 fee -$3 of which is a non­refundable registration deposit. 
Register at Campus Ministry Office (103 Library) 
, ~ "' ~ .-,. ... .0. ~ II I' J0 .. • (' t .f. 

.. 
' 
! " ' 
Tuesday, September 17, 1974
• .-Jb•-oltt•.,_ 

ND linebackers loaded with talent 
by George Eckes Sherm to be red-shirted. They take 

As the ill-fortuned summer of '74 into account many aspects of the dwindled to a close for Ara Par­athlete's life -the academic seghian 's coaching staff the situation among others-before central problem for linebacking giving their opinion." coach George Kelly seemed to be a The linebacker situation looks replacement for standout Gary rosier when you turn to big Potempa. While other coaches Number 50, Co-captain Greg pondered over replacing veterans Collins. As his mentor, George lost to injury or disciplinary Kelly says, "You can use all the procedures, Coach Kelly could cliches about Greg. He is above take solace over the fact that a reproach, both on and off the field. nucleus of experienced talenU, He won his captain position in one which included Greg Collins, of the bigger landslide votes here, Sherm Smith, and Drew Mahalic and that is an example of what he were returning, and corps of added means to his teammates and depth loomed close by. coaches. He is always ready to 
The loss of Sherm Smith in the compete and never asks for special Georgia Tech clash has forced favors." Collins was named Kelly to adjust, but the friendly Lineman of the · Week by and forceful Irishman is confident Associated Press last year for his of his men and what they can do. contributions (18 ·solo• tackles, 5 "The injury to Sherm has meant other assists, causing one fumble we can 'I rely on alternating him and recovering another) against The linebacker corps of Mahallc, Smith, Russell and Collins provided fine performances against with Drew Mahalic and switching Southern Cal and that type of Georgia Tech. Smith's loss to the team for the season has provided some worry to the Irish, but Mahalic with Collins. We found consistent ball playing has earned Coach Kelly feels he has capable replacements for the season. great success in using the alter­him a preseason All-American 
facing various formations key for the N.D .linebacker, position. "It is certainly anating system last year. However selection by most major writers
• 
Tony Novakov will be seeing more across the country. throughout the season, none of patience. "Patience is important, challenging one. You have to blend action and he is a very capable Along with Collins, Marv Russel which seem to bother Kelly and his especially in playing good solid elements of linemen and defensive young man. He possesse!"great adds a new dimension to the Irish crew. As he worded it no for-team defense, certainly one of the backs, to come up with a hard­intelligence and versatility which defense at nose-guard. Despite mation can intimidate the essentials stressed by an Ara hitting, thinking, mobile agressor. will be a great asset to his playing his first game before a linebackers because they practice Parseghian team." remarked Yet it is not always a kamikaze playing." nationally televised audience, against one of the toughest for-Kelly. type thing. It has the chance to be 
Not only will Novokov be thrust Russel, the Methodist minister mations to a linebacker, the The Notre Dame alumnus who is enjoyable and satisfying." If the misdirection, which the Irish of-entering his 14th year of coaching linebackers get as much
into an active position, but Kelly from Ford City, PA., pleased Kelly 
will be keeping a close eye on the with his performance. "He is fense installs quite often. That (the last five with N.D.) summed satisfaction playing, as the Irish likes of junior• Joe Pszeracki, and progressing all the time and he practice has resulted in another up his feelings on the linebacking fans do watching, they are 
one group of happy fellows.
freshmen Dave Vinson, Pete played better against Georgia 
Johnson and Doug Becker among Tech than expected." others. Kelly has hopes of em­Completing the solid trio, Drew ploying that same alternating Mahalic typifies the modern 
system by mid-season. linebacker. To George Kelly a 



IU downs Soccer Team 11-1
The question of Sherm Smith linebacker should have size, still remains however. Although strength, and a great deal of certainly out for the year due to quickness to recover and change torn ligaments (which were suc­direction. Drew Mahalic certainly by John DeCoursey vressure the Irish defense defeated Grace College's Junior 
cessfully operated on last Thur­possesses these qualities. Along throughout the half, and by half­Varsity 4-o last Thursday. The sday> the question of red-shirting with Collins, Mahalic has great Indiana University routed Notre time, they had increased their lead offense was well-balanced as four becomes obvious. Kelly com­pursuit, and that factor along with Dame's Soccer team 11-1 last to 4-Q. players scored goals. The defense mented that "it is a multi-faceted their aggressiveness and Friday at Bloomington. The fast, The second half was ·even more was spearheaded by fullbacks question, and many variables diagnostic abilities makes the aggressive Hoosiers controlled the lopsided as the Hoosiers scored Ryan Sullivan and Jim Donovan 
seven

exist i. There is the question tandem one of the best outside game from the outset as they more goals, with three and goalie Mark Seryak. ' whether Sherm would want to play linebacking duos in college foot­handed the Irish their worst defeat comingin a span of three minutes. The Irish have a busy schedule next year. Then there is the more ball. in three years. The Irish scored their only goal this week with three away games. important question of whether the That outstanding group, along lndiatla scored the first goal of late in the game on a high arching They play Central Michigan, 
Athletic Council would allow with the rest of the Irish will be the game after five minutes of kick by Louis Monserrat. Wednesday; Eastern Michigan,play. The Hoosiers continued to The Hoosiers dominated the Saturday; and the University of 
game so much, that, despite Michigan, Sunday. On Friday, the allowing 11 goals, the play of fresh­B-team plays at home· on Cartier man goalie Mark Klein was the

Ali-Foreii.ml Field at 8 p.m. against the 
only bright spot for the Irish. University of Michigan at Dear­On a better note, the B team born.
fight Postponed 
NEW YORK (UPI) -The projected $30 million "fight of the century" between George Foreman and Muhammad Ali in Kinshasa, Zaire was post­




OBSERVER

poned Monday when Foreman received a one-inch cut over his right eye while training. Offi­cials said the cut forces a 
SPORTS

postponement of between six to 45 days. JllllllllHJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIJIIIIIIIIII 
1 
Hank Sch~artz, vice presi­?e!lt of Video Techniques, Inc., JOint promoters of the fight with the government of Zaire said the postponment wa~ necessary but no new date could be fixed until the exact extent of Foreman's injury w~ determined. National League American League 
EAST EAST

Schwartz consulted, via tele­Pct.GB w L Pel. GB phone, with Foreman's han­St. Louis . 79 w 68 L .537 Ne" York !lAA 67 544 dlers in Kinshasa and with Bula Pittsburgh I~
Tl 69 .527 Baltimore ~ 711 527 21'1 .73 74 497 Boston 76 iO .521 31.,
Pbiladelrhia

Mandungu, the president of the Montrea . 68 Tl .469 10 Clrvrland 12 74 '49:1 7101 fight commission, before reach­New York 66 79 455 12 Milwaukee .. 71 Tl -I!W 91'1 Drew Mahallc, here recovering the crucial fumble in the Sugar ing a decision to postpone the Chicago. 60 86 411 181_.2 Dl'lrmt tij 110 456 13 
WEST

Bowl against Alabama, is one of Coach Kelly's top three. Sept. 24 bout. WEST 
LOs Angeles .92 54 630 Oakland 1!4 64 5IIS 
"It's unfortunate, but we Cincinnati .90 57 .612 2"2 Texas 7ll 69 .534 ~ Atlanta 81 fj{ .547 12 Minrwsota 75 i3 5(ri 9

have no other alternative," said 
Houston 74 73 .563 1Rt.2 Chicago i'!. 76 .·4Xfi t~

Schwartz who was involved in j) j6 -IX3 Ul'l
San Francisco .67 81 .453 26 Kansas City

Swimming Tryouts Set 

149' ..lj3 w'l
Foreman promotions in Tokyo San Diego 53 95 .358 40 Cahlomta 00 




and Caracas. All Frosh and upper classmen who were not on the swimming 
The new fight date also will 
Tursda~··s (iamrs
team last year, and who are interested in trying out for the team 

have to take into consideration 
Dt•trmt at Boston. 6 · 30 p m.

are to attend an organizational meeting on Tuesday September 17th Chacago at Phaladelphta. 6·35 p m.
the availability of closed circuit St. Louis al Pittsburgh. 6: 3~ P-rn. Balumorr at :-.:t•w York. i p.m
at 4:00P.M. in the Rockne Memorial Building 2nd floor foyer. ~ew York at Montreal. i:05 p.m. Oakland at Kansas Cil)". i 30 p m.
locations in the United States. ­
H~uston at Los .-\ngl'l~s. 9:30p.m Clt•n-land al ~lllwaukt•r. i·3tJ p m 
Foreman received the gash 
Cmcmnati at San Dll'gn. 9:30 p.m. Mmnt•stlta at Chicago.~ p·rn.
Dennis J. Stark 

over his right eye in the sixth Atlanta at San ~·raneist.·n. 9:30p.m. Cahlorma at Tt•xas HpIllSwimming Coach round of a sparring session with Bill McMurray. WIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIUIE-·IIII.IHIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 



