
-~------~--·-~--­
On The Inside 
Von Braun on space .•. page 6 last game for seniors •.. page 7 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIll, No. 91 
•

McLaughlin WlDS; takes 2/3 of vote 
by Chris O'Brian and Tom Russo Staff Reporters 

Pat McLaughlin captured 63 per cent of the vote last Friday to score a decisive victory over Ray Capp in the run~ff election for Notre Dame's Student Body President. 
From the earliest returns Friday evening it was evident that the margin of victory for the McLaughlin-Flanagan ticket would be large. When the final returns were posted on a black­board in the main lobby of LaFortune about 8:00 

p.m., McLaughlin had won in all halls except two: Cavanaugh, Capp's home hall, and Sorin, where the margin was only one vote. McLaughlin also took Off-Campus. 
A crowd of approximately 50 students gathered in the main lobby of LaFortune to witness the returns and to hear the candidates' comments. 
Cites Winiarczyk, Rahill 

"I would like to single out two people in par­ticular", said McLaughlin in his victory speech, "Andy Winiarczyk and Ed Rahill. who still considered the election a worthwhile cause, even after they lost in the preliminaries." He was refering to the support they gave to the McLaughlin ticket after the general primary last Wednesday. 
"We're really surprised and really shocked", continued McLaughlin. "our thanks will be the job we do beginning April 1st." 
The Vice President -elect Frank Flanagan, jokingly said, "This is the first time Pat's allowed me to speak in public." On a more serious note, he commented that their campaign was low-keyed until Thursday, when the tempo picked up considerably. "I want to thank all the friends ant:l people who worked for us," Flanagan continued. "We feel privileged to have run against such fine competition." 
Defeated presidential candidate Capp said, "I knew it was all over when I found out we carried Cavanaugh. It's like the kiss of death. Even the King <Kersten) didn't carry Cavanaugh. But seriously, good luck to you guys." 
Current SBP Dennis Etienne commented, "Fr. Schlaver assured me that student government will carry as much of the weight as ever." When the laughter subsided he continued, "Congratulations to all the candidates for a good race. I would also like to congratualate Jerry Samaniego for doing such an efficient job in getting the votes counted." 
McLaughlin concluded the speeches by saying "I'm glad we won by such a large margin because I feel we need a definite mandate to perform our job properly. I'm also glad we have a month before we take office because we need a month to recover.'' 
Reasons for victory 
Afterwards, McLaughlin cited the reasons for his large victory. "The people who worked for us came across really well in the discussions. They also introduced us to a lot of their friends. I don't think that experience in government had that much to do with it. Our people really did a fine job." 
McLaughlin 's first action will be to attend the SLC meeting on Monday night. "I want to get a general orientation as to where student govern­ment stands right now. In April, the first thing we'll look into is the budget." · 
Greg Ericksen, Capp's running mate, af­terwards said, "This was a fantastic campaign. These guys can do a tremendous job and I em­pathize with their victory. They are competent, and will represent the students to the fullest. I'm sure they'll keep any promises they made to the students." 
Cigars were passed out, and Capp and Me Laughlin shared a certain camraderie ·which marked the evening. . 
53 per cent of the student body voted in Friday's election for a t9tal of 3500 votes. 

Mclaughlin: Ecstatic after taking 63 per cent of the student votes cast in Friday's runoff election, capping a week of campaigning (Staff photo by Ed Brower). 


Hall Tallies 
Alumni Badin Breen· Phil ips Cavanaugh Dillon Farley Fisher Flanner Grace Holy Cross Howard Keenan lyons Morrissey Pangborn Sorin 
St. Ed's St. Joe's Stanford Walsh Zahn Off-Campus Total Spring returnetl to dulac over the weekend as scores of students 
Capp  Mclaughlin  
47  125  
37  62  
51  107  
133  30  
64  103  
72  95  
56  62  
131  183  
110  178  
39  70  
44  85  
78  140  
33  83  
93  144  
16  177  
39  38  
51  54  
10  19  
50  161  
32  91  
68  98  
52  90  
1306  2195  


shucked their winter clothing and fiQcked outdoors. Two of them find 
a pleasant spot near St. Mary's lake (Staff photo by Ed Brower). 

Percy: Congress 
must reform to gain trust 
by Susan Divita Staff Reporter 
Illinois Senator Charles Percy, in a speech given in Stepan Center last night, said in one word what Congress has to do to regain the confidence of the American people: reform. Throughout the speech, Senator Percy stressed the need for reform in many aspects of politics today. 
Election Reform Bill 
The Senator explained about the Election Reform bill now being worked on in the Senate, which will hopefully be put before the President to sign by June of this year. This bill proposes to alter the abiding seniority system and initiate a system more heavily reliant on merit in Congress. The Senator said the United States is "the only legislative body in the world which operates solely on that (seniority) system." 
A second aspect of the proposed bill is to change the way of election. Percy stated the election must be won or lost on the platforms the candidates present, not on who spends the most money in the campaign, and to insure no one enriches himself from public office. 
Another change incorporated in the bill would be that no one person can contribute cash towards one can­didate which exceeds fifty dollars. The only way to stop the present, unlimited contributions would be to enforce this new idea through federal law. Finishing 
Exclusive Observer interview with Senator 
Percy, photograph on page 3 
up on the money question, Percy claims, if he becomes a 1976 Presidential candidate, that he will exactly state his income tax for the years he's been in office and he and his wife's net worth when he entered office and to date. 
Percy said that Congress has handled the national budget poorly for the past few years. The process t(l make up the budget is running the same as in 1921, when the budget was five billion dollars, when today 304 and a half billion is the amount that has to be alloted. 
Senator Percy and Democratic Senator Sam Ervin are currently working to change the fiscal year, to state that Congress can't break till the budget is finished, that Congress can't appropriate one cent till a goal is set, and that Congress must state where the money appropriated comes from, in order to help clean up the system. · 
Wants people's respect 
Percy is working hard to help pass the Election Reform bill to gain new respect about Congress from the American people . He concluded his speech with the fact that the United States needs to "gain respect around the world by running the kind of country we deserve." To do this, the American people must ask themselves what kind of a country we want and what priorities we want, Percy says. Percy feels that Americans shouldn't stop participating in public af­fairs now, and he concludes that Americans bave the "ability to face the future with confidence." 

-------·-~----~~ ~­
Monday, March 4, 1974

1. the observer 
In conjunction with concert 

warld 

briefs 
NEW YORK-A decision is expected today on whether the trial of two of President Nixon's former cabinet officers will be declared a mistrial even before there's any testimony. 
WASHINGTON-Senate Democratic whip Robert Byrd s~ys Congress is moving "inexorably" towa~d a vote .~n wheth~r to ~m­peach Nixon and that the latest indictments pose senous Im­plications" for the President. 
WASHINGTON-President Nixon's aides say they don't know what is in the Watergate grand jury's secret report: Nixon returns. froma weekend at Camp David, where he worked on a message vetomg the energy bill he requested. 
an campus today 
4: 15 pm lecture, "modeling and scale-up in polymer processing," by arthur b. metzner, sponsored by chem. dept., conference room in radiation lab. 
4:40pm, forum, inierpretaiton of piano music of te 19th century, by arlene portney, little theater 
6: 30 p.m., career information program, law industrial engineering, insurance, morissey chapel. 
7:oopm, lecture, "confucianism, legalism, and modernization," by prof. peter moody, sponosred by international student organizatign, library lounge. 
7:00 &9:00 pm, foreign film festival, "nazarlne," slonsored by college of arts and letters, eng. aud. 
B: 00 pm, concert, john denver prison reform benefit, ace, $5.50 and $3.50 ti x left. 
a: 00 pm, drama, chekhov's "three sisters" with city center adctlng col, o' laughlin aud., $2.00 student and $3.50 g_en. admission. 
3,000-credit ceiling 



Co-ex to continue 
Prison conferences set 
by Mike Worley Vassoli from the Sociology testifying at a time to the Board. 
Staff Reporter department, who has done ex­After each segment, there will be 
tensive research in the field of open discussion with the audience. 
Announcements were made last Recitivism, and a representative Tuesday's conference will deal week by the Student Union for a from Congressman Brademas' with problems in corrections and conference on prison issues, to be office. cover "prison population," "prison held Tuesday and Wednesday in Commenting on the conference, operations an services,"conjunction with the John Denver Mishe said, "This will prove "prisoner's rights," and "release benefit concert, scheduled for an excellent opvounity for students programs." Involved in Wed­tonight. to hear open comments on the nesday's conference will be 
The conference will be held in Indiana prison system and some "prison reform," with "alter­the auditorium of the Center for new reform ideas.". native approaches" slated for Continuing Education,spanning four The conference will conform to the morning session and periods from 9:00a.m. to 1:00 p.m. the style used in Congressional "strategies for change" in the and 2:00 to 6:00p.m. on both days. hearings, with three 'witnesses' , afternoon. 
by Mary Janca co-exchange, said Hickey, where ships awarded during each of the Staff Reporter the two schools were running on a last two years.
6,000-7,000 credit hour basis, prior 
The scholarships provide a The co-exchange of classes ot the break-off of the merger monthly allowance of 79,000 yen,between Notre Dame and St. attempt. 
<about $300), transportation to and Mary's will be continued next "3,000 hours was chosen," he from Japan, field study year, according to a recent an­added, "to get back to a free co­allowances, school fees and nouncement by ND Provost Fr. exchange program." 
residence accommodation.
James Burtchaell and SMC V.P. for Academic Affairs Dr. William Hickey. 
It will be open to the public. 
At this time, several members of the conference have not made definite committments to attend, but have offered their services if schedules permit. Among these are Senator Birch Bayh, who is currently serving on the Congressional Sub-Committee on Juvenile Delinquincy, and Fr. Joseph Biater, Chaplain at the Michigan City Prison System and currently the Secretary of American Chaplains Association. 
Confirmed members of the 
conference are: Robert Heyne, 
from the State Corrections 
Commission, Mark Miller of South 
Ben, Judge Kopec from the South 
Bend court system, Professor 
Funds awarded 
John R. Aube, a University of Notre Dame senior, has received a Mombusho Scholarship for graduate studies in a Japanese university as a research assistant. He is the third Notre Dame student to receive one of the 16 scholar­
National Coordinating Committee for ' Justice Under Law 
PRISON REFORl\1 BE:\IEFIT 
CONCERT 
,,.jrh 

JOHN DENVER 
.llld 

N ittv Grittv Dirt Band 
" " 
STEVE (~0()01\'IAN" Bill ()LIVER S"vofford 
MONDAY 
MARCH 4th 8:00 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME Athletic & Convocation Center Ticket Prices: Behind stage and Bleachers $3.50 
Tickets on sale NOW at ACC Ticket Office. 
Guidelines for the program, including a ceiling of 3,000 credit hours, will remain unchanged, said  The search.  
Hickey.  
This  semester,  St.  Mary's  
students are using approximately 1650 hours, while the 3,000 hour maximum is being taken by Notre Dame, according to SMC Registrar Sr. Francesca Kennedy. Since SMC students did not reach the ceiling of 3,000 hours, she  Some come to find meaning. Not only from the wise men with deep answers. But from the country itself with its ancient past and new spirit, and its · people in touch with others and themselves. Some come hungry for India's beauty. The storied art and  
continued, "no one who wanted to take a course at ND was turned  architecture. The pageantry. The incredible landscape.  
down, even if she wanted to take  Some come here because it's different. Or because it's far  
more than one." Some girls, noted Kennedy, are taking 2 or 3 courses at ND. The ceiling of 3,000 hours that has been in effect this year and last  away. Or because others come here. What are you searching for? We'll offer you everything to help you in your search. An incredibly low $577 round-trip  
year was based on the historical  fare from New York to Bombay or Delhi. Places to eat and  
Govt lecture  sleep that cost less than anywhere (in India the dollar still goes ,,,,.•,,.,-o::}'"'""''''''''''''''".'"" far and $5.00 a day isn't nostalgia, yet). Half fare on domestic  
tonight at 1  i,.,_\·.,;......,i,.;;,..,Ii ··········••••••••••••••••••••·••••••••:•••·····'••••'  air, and rail travel. Wholehearted hospitality. We've a Meet-The-People Program so that you can visit  
A lecture on "Confuciansim, Legalism, and Modernization" will be given tonight at 7 p.m. in the  with an Indian family if you like. A Student Program to introduce you to Indian students on their campuses. But quite on your own you'll make friends,  
Library Lounge. Prof. Peter Moody, Department of Gover­nment and International Studies,  be offered help and understanding, get invited places. We enjoy having you.  
will present the second in a series of informal lectures concerning human rights in society. The In­ternational Student Organization cordially invites the public and will provide refreshments following the lecture. The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stUdents of the University of Notre Dame end St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for Sl per semester ($1.( per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana .(6556. Second class postage paid, Notre o.fte, Ind. '46556. .  ~~11 .1 ~~•••~:.....  For more information see your Travel Agent or contact us. The Government of India Tourist Office, by mailing the coupon to the address closest to you. New York, 19East 49th Street. r-------------------,Chicago 201 North Michigan Ave 1 I, t~o, am searching. Pl~ase send me your brochure 1' ., I tellmg me all about India. 1 San Francisco, 685 Market St. Also Canada. 1 ~ 1 Name India. : :• h 1 Street IIt's not JUSt anot er country. 1 1It's another world. 1 City state Zip 1 II M T lAg . II . , . , . . . . . . . . . . . , . . y ra~t ent.Js· ·'; .. , ".,.., •.,, • •, r.,.,.,,.,, f f ~ • • t <1 1 ~ • , f '• ',..!.;,.~..,:L.~ , , , -:-·_I·  1i::0" • •,-!  

~..«::.?~~!::-=-::!~=~=======•~~·~.ncf."~~#.;~~~~~~~~m!!!.':tm:mmmm!l!l!!m~l!l!'.=:::::~:::: 
....................................................... ~ .. 

~~-----~ ---~--~----------------------~ -~---~~-~--~­
..,..e·· . 
Monday, March 4, 1974 the obs'erver 
3 

'President' Percy: 'He doesn't look it • • • I 
! 
by Terry Keeney News Editor 
Seated across the table in his room at the Morris Inn yesterday evening, Charles Percy did not look like a man who could conceivably be the next president of the United States. He somehow did not have the air of one of the youngest top executives in Bell and Howell history, Yet when he spoke, he projected the stuff from which 


A lot of students are going to be driving home for Spring and Easter breaks. Can you tell me which states have gas rationing systems? 
We checked with John Brademas's office, who in turn, checked with their Washington headquarters. The following states have some sort of gas rationing system: Hawaii, New Jersey, Virginia, New York, Oregon, Washington, Washington D.C., Massachusetts, Maryland, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Pennsylvania, California, Florida, and Kentucky. All these states have rationing dependant on if the license number is odd or even. For the states of Hawaii, New Jersy, Virginia, and New York, the system is man­datory,. It is voluntary in Oregon, Washington, Washington D.C.,Massachusetts, Maryland, and New Hampshire. Only certain 
counties in California, Flordia, and Kentucky have rationing. If you live in a non-neighboring state of New Jersey, Virginia, D.C., Massachusetts, Maryland, New Hampshire, or New York, and you are just going through, then you can get gas anytime. 
When is the Three Sisters playing here? It is playing March 4 at 8:00p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Who is responsible for the Drive-a-Way service on campus? Call Larry Casey at 232-9034 for more information. 
Student co1n1Dittee releases state~nent 

The following is a statement by the three student members of the Committee to review Hall Life Styles and Male Visitation Hours. It is in agreement with the recent decision of the. SMC Board of Regents about visitation hours. -Ed. 
We the students on the Com­mittee to Review Hall Life Styles and Male Visitation Hours are in full agreement with Dr. Henry's statement issued in last Friday's Ob~~rver.. '_l'here were four postbve pomts m the news release. 
One of these included the fourfold extension of male visitation hours. However, these are not the issues with which we are most concerned with at this time. The focal point of our concern prese!ltly lies in a credibility gap. The purpose of this committee, as outlined by the Board of Regents' resolution of February 9, 1974 , was to advise the President concerning male visitation extension and hall 
life styles in general. The com­mittee includes three regents, three faculty members and three students. 
The majority of the committee recommended a 12:00 a.m. closing. 
After lengthy discussion the regents on the committee revealed that anything beyond a 10:00 p.m. closing would be unacceptable to them and that if alter closing hours were passed by the President, it would definateiy go back to the Board of Regents. In brief, they denied the President the latitude previously given him by the Board's .original resolution, ~ thus 
., .• •, .. " -" ~ "' 'It ""' .......... -; Ql.~~....l ,.._,
... ·. ············ ···········-·-.·.·•.....-.· 
presidential candidates are made. 
Clad in shirt sleeves with hands folded, Percy spoke to the issues: confidence in government, the energy crisis and the political process itself. But underlying all the issues and causing problems for Congress and the people is Watergate. 
"People are really fed up with Watergate," Percy argued, "but they also want it settled once and for all." He envisioned a way in 
rendering the other represen­tatives on the committee voiceless in terms of closing hours. 
This statement is merely of an informative nature. The issue of the hours is closed. Nothing more can be done about it. 
The committee however, will 
continue to discuss dorm , renovations and improvements, ! with recommendations from each ~ hall, after the spring recess. 
Carol Collins Joanne Garrett Denise Peterso 
n 

,.,............. 
which the Grand Jury action last Friday could lead to a decisive settlement of the case. 
Besides returning the in­dictments, the grand jury presented to Chief U.S. District Court Judge Johm Sirica all evidence that involves or absolves President Nixon in the Watergate conspiracy. Percy favors the public release of this information. 
"If it will be made available to the House Judiciary Committee, it should be made public once and for all," Percy reasoned. "It's inconceivable to release it to the Judiciary Committee and keep it secret." 
Percy has been criticized for voting against the Emergency Energy bill. Percy did not vote against energy, but against what he called "passing the buck" to the president and giving him wide discretion in energy matters. 
"It's a bad bill," he concluded. "It will not increase the supply of petroleum by one barrel. In fact it will reduce the oil supply." 
Percy has formed an ex­ploratory committee to investigate the possibilities of a Republican presidential bid in 1976. While some believe any Republican effort is doomed to failure because of ·watergate, Percy strongly disagrees. He explained to a news conference yesterday: 
"No Republican has to feel or should take the responsibility for Waterage which is a national tragedy for the party and the country." 
But Watergate has admittedly affected his political plans. Based upon his premise that "People 
don't trust politicians" Percy feels compelled to bend over backwards 
to prove his honesty and integrity to a cynical public. Percy promised total candor in 
any future bid for the presidency. "If I become an all-i>ut candidate for president, I will reveal all my 
tax records. I hink the public has a right to see if someone has benefited from holding public office." 
Although Percy may seem like a man totally committed to a run for the presidency, he claims to have some qualms and uncertainties. One is whether he can address himself to the problems of the nation. Another is whether the exploratory committee finds it in his best interests "to move ahead." 
~...........""".. .. 

GREEN 
BEER 
Since you won't be here for St. Patrick's Day we've decided to celebrate it early! Enioy our beer special Tuesday { 12 noon to 11 p.m.) 25~ 
ALL DAY 
~\t\JB .. ------·~--·~,·_"_.li!·"'_~~-~-J-1---­
----~-----------------------------------~---------------~~ 
THE OBSERVER P.O. Box Q
A"-' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Yes, It's Murder counselling or psychiatric treat­Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett Editor: • ment to cure a so-called "lasting
Art Ferranti 
Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor Byron King's article on abortion neurosis."
Executive Editor 
was a fine attempt to bring some 3) If Mr. King justifies an 
NEWS: 283-1715 

John Kloos reasonable considerations to the abortion where there is absolute
Lee Gentine EDITORIALS: 283-8661
Business Manager Advertising Manager defence of fetal life. His reflection certainty "that an individual will 
BUSINESS: 283-7471 

on the question of life or poten­not function as a happy person who tiality of life can be substantiated finds meaning and satisfaction in
Monday, March 4, 1974 

pretty well with the evidence· of­his life," why not wait to see if such fered by current fetology. a deformed or handicapped child 
Nevertheless, in response to his cannot lead a reasonably "happy" request for constructive criticism, life? Although the recently I present the following points for discovered procedure of am­
The Road Ahead 
his consideration: niocentesis can detect at least fifty 
1) If Mr. King considers abor­possible congenital defects of the
Pat McLaughlin won the Student Body field, and McLaughlin showed the 
tion justifiable when the life of the fetus during gestation, who has the 
President's position by an overwhelming students of ND that he was the best. mother is endangered, there is right to decide whether of not a margin Friday, and almost two to one technically a moral distinction mongoloid or deformed child
McLaughlin has the strength and ex­
margin. The returns showed a mandate between performing an abortion as cannot live a "happy" life? 
for McLaughlin and a vote of confidence perience to be an excellent president. It a direct or indirect means to save One of my best college teachers in a man of experience. is hoped that he will fulfill the potential he her life. It is not simply a choice at Notre Dame was a biology exhibited throughout the campaign between saving either the mother professor who was born without In his campaign, McLaughlin promised buoyed by the electoral mandate that the or the fetus, but a question of arms, a defect found among little, probably a wise concession to the students suppled. means and intent in attempting to thousands of thalidomide­
save both, if possible. When an deformed children in Germany
realities of student political life at Notre 
abortion is performed on a fetus today. If we have the .right to
Dame. Resultingly, there is little that the 
McLaughlin should employ both the apparently "threatening the life or terminate fetal life predicted to bestudent body (Or the Observer in our ideas and the personnel that submerged general well-being of the mother," deformed, handicapped,reporting of him in the next year) can during this campaign because the procedure directly deprives the mongoloid, etc., why should not 
really hold him responsible for. throughout, both exhibited their quality. fetus of life as a means to save the society have the same authority to 
mother,which is not morally ad­deal in the same way with such
Particularly worth pursuing are Ed
What McLaughlin can be held missable. Different, however, is children in similar conditions? A
Rahill's proposed judicial code revision, 
the case where a pregnant visit to Logan Center can often be 
responsible is, in his words, "sticking to and some of Ray Capp's service-oriented psychologically therapeutic. Or
woman's life is endangered by
the Administration" and sticking it to 
projects. some pathology, such as a car­think about the doctor who was
them wth facts. 
cinoma of the uterus, requiring the requested to perform an abortion
The students are facing what could be a 
excision of the cancer by hysterec­on a pregnant mother having taken 
crucial year for student's rights next tomy with the inevitable loss of the thalidomide: "Man, let's wait and 
The new SBP will have to stand on the 
year and they have placed their con­fetus in order to save the mother's see if your baby is deformed at
facts,be energetic, demanding and most 
fidence in a man who seems to have the life: here the abortion is permitted birth: if so, I'll stick its head under 
of a-n be a spokesman for the student the faucet." "But that would be
ability to lead through any critical as an indirect consequence of the
body. The Observer said a week ago that medical procedure, which is murder!" she screamed. "And the field of SBP candidates was a quality periods. Jerry Lutkus morally justifiable by the working that is exactly what you are asking principle of the double effect. me to do today." Doc replied. 
The use of a direct abortion is I agree with Mr. King that not medically necessitated today abortion is "the logical equivalent according to experts in obstetrics. of murder."
Afraid of Growing Up? 
L.J. Mertensotto liberalize abortion laws, Dr. 
In the 1967 New York debate to 
It appears that the Board of Regents at sign-outs are going to be extended calling Bernard Pisani, Director of Ob­0-C Helpers
St. Mary's are not willing to admit that for more undergraduate-graduate stetrics at St. Vincent's Hospital in the SMC student body is composed of student desk duty (it would be financially New York, testified, "I will state Dear Sir: · 
unequivocally that there is no Now that the trend, even though
mature women capable of handling their unfeasible to hire more personel). 
medically valid indication for it is a forced trend, is to off-<:ampus
own affairs. By implying to Dr. Henry However, it seems reasonable to assume 
therapeutic abortions." Even Dr. iiving I feel that the University
that male visitation hours were not to that the girls would be willing to put in the should 1ry and r.1ake things a little
Robert E. Hall, Professor of Ob­
exceed ten p.m. they have stopped the hours if the hours were worth it. They are stetrics at Columbia and a leading easier for those who have to go. What I am proposing is that the
once touted reform of the social life at St. not. proponent for liberalizing abortion 
laws, agreed that therapeutic University set up better facilities
Mary's cold. That time limit is what one 
Dr. Henry said in his statement abortions are a hoax: "We can get on car.,pus, for those who live off­
would colloquially term a sick joke. 
released Thursday that he would comply a cardiac patient through her car.lpus. Such facilities would with the Board of Regents (of course, he pregnancy; tuberculosis is no consist of lockers for students to
The purpose of the extended male 
has to). The student representatives not longer a problem, and if a woman slore books, etc. on campus so that 
hours was to allow the girls to entertain is potentially suicidal, we can lock 1hey wiil not have to carry all their 
only supported Dr. Henry but
their male friends during the evening and her up for nine months." belongings with !hem everywhere
categorically state that the issue is
thereby helping to increase social con­(New York Times, February 1hey go. Sor.1e of us will only be
closed. It is not and should not be. The able to cor.,e on to campus once a
tacts and ease an ailing social condition 27, 1967).
people on the committee do not favor the day and stay until evening. At
at both institutions-that oflonelinessand 2) If Mr. King holds that 
new hours, yet they are complacently present r.1any of the off-<:ampus
anomie. Whether this entails just plain abortion is justifiable in the case of sludents practically live in the
willing to let the Board of Regents simply rape but only where the
visits or parites is irrelevant. Neither rooms of !heir friends on campus,
crush their efforts. It seems that fighting psychological effect upon the
activity is now feasible. Parties are out which is not lhat bad, but they do
for a cause no longer means anything. woman "would be so adverse that
simply because a party does not get feel !hey are imposing. The only
The students and their student body of­it would produce a lasting, serious other choice is to take over a
underway until eight at the very earliest neurosis," then he would have to
ficials should force the issue. carroll at lhe library which just
and end at one at the latest (usually). be consistent in his logical ap­
This might be called a step in the right ciuters up the place, and r.1akes it
Visits would be constrained to only an plication of admissability to every harder for other students who want
direction, but all it comes off as is an 
other case where a pregnant
hour or so figuring in dinner time, travel 1o study there.
insipid compromise. woman not wanting a child could
time, and the times the girls would be Along with the lockers the
plead for an abortion on grounds of
getting dressed, etc. Even in the dorms The Board of Regents appear to be University r.1ight install some kind
grave psychological indications. I of shower room besides the gyms. 
here, females seldom visit males before unable to recognize that in 1974 the St. would agree with him that "a 
Seeing as the living conditions off­
seven, more likely at eight. Mary's student body is not a batch of human life is a big price to pay 
campus are so poor it seems that
sheltered girls, that they are in fact simply to save the inconvenience 
1he University could do a little toand embarassment of nine months 
Another trouble with the new hours is grown women. Maybe it is time for the help out the situation.
of pregnancy" due to rape, but I
the security the famale dorms are Board of Regents to finally grow up. These are just a few possibilities 
planning to implement. Sign-ins and 
daane~ury 
600/J HE.t.UJ, ·1HI5 15 MORNING. R.OLAN/J Bt/RTON "11M&" " H60L.EY, JR. I'M 
" /1A6AZIN&. R.Uf/RNIN6 MR.. 
_ \ G~tvAUfSCAU .. 
HI, ROLANO-WEL.COM5 BACK 70 THE 5TAT55! T5U Y()(J WHY I CALUO-WE WANT YOtl 70 /J/6 t/P SOM& BACK6ROt/N/J RJI< Ot/R. ANNt/At. 
•srAT&-OF-TH&-STt//JENT"ESSAY. 
\ 

would also add that a human life is 
lo help brighten the future of those
Art Ferranti a greater price than psychological 
who are to go. We have to start 
H/1/1... SOt/NOS 
!NTR/6{f/N6... :I MJNOER. IUHA1 1H6 865T APPROACH UWt./J 9& ... I KNOll//­
:r'U GO INTER.V/6/AI SOME t/N/J!31<6!<AOti4T&$1 f 
raarry trudeau 
somewhere, so let's please work 
logether and gel something done. Ont> Who Is To Go, Thomas W. Braun 
the observer 

Night Editor: Joe Abell Copy Reader: Rick Thues Day Editors: Mary Janca, Jim Donathen Compugraphic: Carolina Pictures: Albert D'Antonio Typists: Jane Coyle, Bill Menk, Claire 
Kelly, Camille Arrieh, Karen Hinks Night Controller: Howard Halle 
6000 
Pt.AN, 
RO/..ANO. 
\ 

Monday, March 4, 1974  the observer  5  •I  
4  
Little Bi':l Sc:reen  I  
~  
\ I new york, z  and other dangers  •••i  

art ferranti 
Hal Holbrook turns in a devastating per­New York is skyjacked) because it was 
formance this Thursday as ABC repeats last year's "Pueblo". Holbrook stars as Commander Lloyd M. Bucher, who in 1968 surrendered the USS Pueblo to North Korean gunboats and later admitted to spy activities to his Korean captors when they threatened to kill his crew members. The drama, presented in a surrealistic play form, centers on Bucher's imprisonment with his men and the subsequent court martial. The drama, based on public record highlights the upper echelons of the Navy passing the buck for the spy ship; with the result that the crew of the Pueblo is discrf'dited rather than honored. The drama is one of television's better efforts and should not be missed by those interested in history, world events, and politics. It airs at eight on ABC. 
The Out-of-Towners 
Jack Lemmon and Sandy Dennis star in The Out of Towners Sunday night at eight (nine Eastern and Pacific) on ABC. An hilarious series of vignettes, this comedy concerns husband and wife Lemmon and Dennis travelling to New York City from Ohio so that Lemmon can be in­terviewed for a new job. In the course of trying to get there, they are re-routed in flight, robbed, mugged, caught in a 
demonstration,kicked out of a church, and, among other things, almost get creamed by an exploding man-hole cover. Written by Neil Simon, the film is earmarked by the playwrighfs inimitable style such as the running jokes of Miss Dennis always saying, "Oh my God" in a monotone and Lemmon's writing everyone's name down. I hope ABC shows the film's ending (their plane back edited. last time. Without the conclusion, the film is a long joke without a punchline. But it is funny nonetheless. 
Mad World Rerun 
And if comedy is really your cup of tea this break, Saturday at seven on NBC It's a Mad, Mad, Mad ,Mad World will be rerun. With a cast headlined by Spencer Tracey, Jimmy Durante, Jonathan Winters, and Carl Reiner, this film follows the exploits of a group of jerks who accidentally witness the demise of gangster Durante and find 
out that he has a fortune secreted away. They all bumble their way to the cache, even cop Tracey. The film also relies heavily on slap-stick humor with the effect being one of light humor. It is a film for the older and younger sets but it's good relaxation. 
Tonight, there are two loser films playing opposite each other making studying or the Denver concert the best bets. First we have Charles Bronson as a half-breed Apache wiping out a posse in Chato's Land on ABC at eight. Jack Palance, James Witmore, and Richard Basehart lead the posse<Bronson) since Chato has killed a sheriff in self-defense. A Spanish-made western, it rivals the spaghetti types in its being .long ?n violence and action and short on plot and characterization. It does have one advantage over the Italian western, though. It has a good cast. The other film of debatable merit is the rerun of I Walk the Line with Gregory Peck as a Southern sheriff who falls for a moonshiner's daughter (Tuesday Weld). Ralph Meeker plays the moonshiner who finally has it out with Peck at the end. The result is Peck's 

r-~-------.----~----~----~------~----~------~------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------~J 
letting the two go and his career ruined. I am surprised that this film did not ruin Peck's acting career. The camera shots show the seamy side of life for the town but the acting is bogged down in a sleezy script. This film also airs at eight but on NBC. 
Elizabeth Montomery stars in The Victim on ABC's made-for -TV movie tomorrow at seven-thirty. This rerun fails to maintain suspense as Miss Montgomery goes sear­ching for her friend <in a darkened house during a gothic thunderstorm no less) only to find a corpse and herself the next target. Wednesday Beau Bridges and Meredith Baxter search for their real parents in The Stranger Who Looks Like Mel, also made-for-TV on ABC at seven-thirty. ABC's suspense film onSaturdayhas KirkDouglas and Jean Seberg in Mausey, another murder-suspense concoction and also on Wednesday the infamous Heidi is reshown on NBC at seven. I call it infamous since not a few football fans will remember an incident concerning the cancellatior; of the last three minutes of a football game some years ago due to this film's showing. However, it is a neat little adaptation of the classic story for. the kiddies with Michael Redgrave, Maximilian Schell, and Jean Simmons adding color to the cast. 
Campbell, Welch Specials 
Friday's movie is pre-empted due to 
specials --Glen Campbell with John Waynt. 
and Burl Ives at nine on NBC and Raquel 
Welsh· at eight on CBS. "CBS Reports" 
probes Shanghai at nine that night also. 
Of the films to be shown over the break, 
the best is the academy award winner from 
Greece,Z which means "He lives". This 
superb film chronicles the events leading to 
the assasination of a Greek politician by the fascists and a courageous prosecutor's attempts at bringing the murderers to justice. The end will knock you out of your chair. Based on fact, the film will air on Monday, March 18, at eight on ABC. Of course, opposite that CBS has scheduler. a good program too. At eight-thirty that Monday a salute to James Cagney is scheduled. Sunday March 17 at eight Dean Martin and Ann Margeret star in the last of his lousey Matt Helr.1 films, Murderer's Row. The only other network film of note (?) is Tuesday March 12's Wonder Wonian at seven-thirty on ABC. This made-for-TV film concerns the comic book heroine of the same name --an Amazon who fights •Crime with great strength, a magic rope, and an invisible plane. However, r understand there have been a few changes in the script: I can't say how this will turn out. Cathy Lee Crosby has the title tole with Ricardo Montalban as the heavy. 
For those stuck here over break, the channel 16 film Saturday March 16 is To Catch a Thief with Cary Grant and Grace Kelly --a classic tongue-in-cheek film and Sunday March 17 late film is A Pocketful of Miracles with Glenn Ford, Bette Davis, Hope Lange, and Arthur O'Connell, a comedy about "Apple Annie" and her friends. At any rate, have a good break. 
Trivia Time 

Trivia Question: Name the hospitals in Ben Casey" and "Dr. Kildare." 
·A[<M!PadsaJ 'J!BIH pue reJaua!) AlUno;::> JiM\suv 
justice to shakespeare in good measure 
Recreating Shakespeare "newly" is a challenge to any acting company bold enough to tackle the Bard. Witness the techniques of Oliver, Polanski, Papp, or Richard Bergman in Hamlet staged last year on this campus. The problem becomes magnified if the director chooses a dark comedy such as Measure for Measure. It is one of the most subtle in humor, if not the most difficult in language, and one not well known to audiences. 
However, director John Houseman with the City Center Acting Company scored another success in Measure for Measure last night in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The play's chief concern is not with the triumphs of love, as in the happy comedies, but with moral and social problems; "filthy vices" arising from sexual desire, and the abuses of judicial authority. Its characters and the play as a whole are intolerable on a literal level; the subtle humor can emerge only if they are reduced to a burlesque allegory. 
This is well done. Like the great punster Shakespeare, who loved to milk a word for all its worth, Houseman takes the heavy emphasis off the plot and concentrates on single words, single sentences, single gestures. The language difficulties are compensated for by each speaker's in­flections until the entire script seems one huge double-entendre. The often lengthy, moralistic dialogue is relieved by ingenious stage business. A plodding pace could drag Measure beyond audience tolerance, but the City Center whisked one scene into another with dispatch, sticking close to a "brief two hours traffic on the stage." 
Stylized Treatment 
Houseman has developed an almost stylized treatement of the play, borne out in his inconsistent costuming. His servants' powdered wigs suggest the 18th century; Lucio' s getup that of the 19th century; the hangman Abhorson 's work clothes are highly exaggerrated. Pompey sports a rubber ball-and-chain which bounces after him as he crosses the stage. The mock-seriousness projected is remniscent of Pyramus and Thisbe from A Midsummer Night's Dream. 
Several individual characters deserve mention. Norman Snow as the Duke establishes himself as a properly pompous ruler, at first obnoxious to the audience but later hilarious as the demeanor surfaces from time to time in the borrowed robes of Friar Lodowick. The libertine Lucio, played by Sam Tsoutsouvas, is attired--and deports himself--like a swaggering riverboat gambler of the 19th century. He was so successfully irritating that the audience applauded his sentence of marriage to three bawds, whipping, and hanging. The high point of the production was the prison scene in Act II in which Lucio meets with the disguised Duke, and the play's two best liars match wits. 
David Schramm's Angelo is as stoic a character as you'll see anywhere-until he meets Isabella. Again, Houseman turns to one of Shakespeare's favorite devices­juxtaposition, and the juxtaposition of the immoble Angelo with the vulnerable, very human Deputy demanded and drew out some fine acting. 
Mary-Joan Negro plays the modest nun Isabella well, but as the play moves into scenes which demand more intensity of the character she falters. She did not appear to have the command of the language exhibited by the others, and she did not appear quite capable of handling grief in the prison scenes, which were overdone. 
Richard Ooms successfully presents the 
elderly Escalus, a difficult task for any 
young actor. Joel Colodner's Barnadine and 
Jared Sakren's Pompey added some 
especially good comic moments. 
No Stranger to Experiments 
Houseman is no stranger to experimental Shakespeare; in the late 1930's he became the first to stage Shakespeare in the modern setting, which is now quite a fashionable technique (Papp's Much Ado About Nothing and Two Gentlemen of Verona are perhaps the two most familiar). 

He set Julius Caesar in Nazi Germany, which proved uncannily prophetic in that 
there later was a plot within the Reich to assassinate Hitler. Houseman also took a production of Macbeth to Harlem, in which the three witches were Haitian voodoo women. It worked. 
The company itself is comprised of the first graduating class of Juilliard's drama division. For four years <including sum­mers) under Houseman, they were sub­jected to rigorous training without a single performance. Now in their third year of 
maria gallagher 

touring, they have already established themselves as a major company, including both classical and modern plays in their repertory. None has ever done any work outside the troupe. 
They will stage a free demonstration today from noon to 2 p.m. in Little Theatre. 
One of the biggest questions raised in Measure for Measure is that of justice, and there is no doubt that John Houseman and his young company have done Shakespeare justice in their production. 


Monday, March 4, 1974
the observer 
Von Braun promotes space as 'practical' 


by Mark Frazel Staff Reporter 
Dr. Wernher Von Braun, pioneer in the development of the U.S. 1 space 'program, addressed a standing -r o o m -o n l y C C E auditorium Friday night, March 1. The lecture, entitled "Practical uses of Space for Mankind" was the second in the University of Notre Dame's College of Engineering Centennial Lecture Series. Von Braun presented a series of slides and concluded with a 15-minute movie made during one Skylab mission. 
Involved in the Apollo Space program from 1960 until 1970, the German-born scientist declared, "Twenty-seven Americans have either landed on or encircled the 
Von Braun: Skylab and other space-oriented projects generate quite a bit more than mere theoretical knowledge; many practical uses come from the experiments in space (Staff photo by Ed Brower). 
Assembly awards funds to groups 
by Mary Lu Bilek Staff Reporter 
Over $1500 was allocated by St. 
Mary's Student Assembly at their 
meeting Thursday night when its 
members voted unanimously to 
give the senior class $950. $750 of 
that will go towards funding the 
annual Senior Cocktail party and 
an additional $200 will be used to 
set up a senior class scholarship. 
A representative of the foreign 
students on campus requested that 
Two seniors 
in finals 
Two senior students at the 
University of Notre Dame are 
among four members of the 
Cooperative Department of Speech 
and Drama who have advanced to 
finals competition of the 
University Resident Theater 
Association. Winners are awarded 
cash grants to continue their 
education in a post-graduate 
setting. 
Mark Swiney, Spring Lake, N.J., 
has been asked to attend finals 
competition scheduled for Rock­
ford, Ill., March 8-10. He will be 
participating in the • acting 
category. 
Christopher Ceraso of Leech­
burg, Pa, will attend the finals of 
the Bush Fellowship at the 
University of Minnesota this 
weekend (March 2-3) where he will 
be interviewed both by faculty 
members and staff members of the 
Tyrone Guthrie Theatre. 
Ceraso is only the third can­
didate in the history of the com­
binerd Notre Dame-saint Mary's 
department to advance to the 
finals in theis competition. 
To attend courses 
Finance prof
•nS award
Wl 
Dr. Waldemar M. Goulet. assistant proffessor of finance
and business economics at Notre 
··, --••"'"'"'
·'sch'~i ·oo:F'Mortg"age ·~iri~: ....·...v.-.... ·A._,.,.. ·-·• •.••. ;, t· :. '.'/ft}.'.!,.• _._....,._;,~~,, •.•A~.,..~~·.·-•,(~."-' 
_i • 
Dame , has been awarded a faculty fellowship by the Mortgage Bnkers Note the savl"ngs kl"ds I 
Association and will attend three 1 • one-week courses scheduled for You must get them taken before 
American universities. The ~:.~~ ;:~:~~~h·S~SO~-d~~~ti~~. ·•...a.;Mi·,:,i!m··t'M·.·.~pr,i~~ .~~~~:~ ••t P.~9"~ .~~.~l.. J
·-dl; 
the Student assembly give them a budget to work with, for planning events to unify the international students and also for sponsoring an event for the entire campus. The Assembly voted $400 to fill the foreign students' request. 
The freshman class was also given funds to offset costs for a dance and movie. 
Representatives from the American Cancer Society spoke to the Assembly regarding the 
urgence and importance of its cause. "One-third of the people who mig~t develope cancer will be saved by the work of the American Cancer Society and an additonal third could be saved if only our information reached 
· them, noted one member of the St. Joe County division of the American Cancer Society. 
The Assembly responded to their plea by agreeing to coordinate distribution of information on cancer published by the society. 
GM to build trucks in Russia? 
DETROIT (UPI) -General Motors Corp. has been asked by the Soviet Union to submit a bid to help build a new truck plant in Siberia, the Soviet minister of foreign trade said Thursday. 
GM is the only U.S. automak­er asked to discuss the new truck plant, Nikolai S. Patoli­chev said. 
JUNIORS 

Last chance lor yearbook photos 
$1O.OO 
If you get your pic­
tures taken now, the fee is $1.00. If you • · •
1 00
wait until September, it is $10.00. 
$9 • 0 0 
moon; and twelve have actually 
walked on the lunar surface." 
Tracing some of the problems 
faced by the Apollo 17 flight, Von 
Braun showed slides of the moon's 
landscape and explained the dif­
ficulty of estimating size and 
distance there. "To men, all the 
rocks look the same," he stated, 
"you can't tell if one you see is a 
big rock far away or a small rock 
near-by." 

"Since the moon is a relatively 
small heavenly body," he went on, 
"the horizon is always closer and 
human perception is without 
capacity to judge.". 

The chief topic of the speech was 
Skylab and the many applications 
for our technology and science 
possible in the weightless state of 
space. "Skylab is as big as a 
Bengals 
(continued from page 7) 
34 boxers now proceed to 
Tuesday's semi-final action starting at 8 p.m. Highlighting Tuesday evenings card will be the first heavyweight action in the meet as two football players, Jeff Hein and Tom Parise fight for the right to meet another football player, Steve Neece, in the finals. In other key bouts Tuesday, two time champion and 1973 runnerup at 140, Pat McGrath, last of the Fighting McGrath's', will· meet John Corcoran, and defending champ at 150, Charlie Morrison will meet Phil Harbert, a TKO ·winner on Sunday. Other in­teresting matches include Mike McGarry and Chet Zawalich at 165, Bill Doran and Byron King at 175, and the 185 pound bouts, featuring defending champ Mike McGuire fighting Kevin Buckley and '73 runner-up, Cecil Boot facing Bob 
Olsen. 

Plenty 'of tickets are still on sale 
for Tuesday's semi's as well as the 
finals Thursday evening. Prices 
range from $2 for ringside seats to 
$1 for general admission, with the 
cause of the Bengal Bouts a very 
worthwhile one, the Holy Cross 
Mission House in Bangladesh. 
Career Night set tonight 
In an attempt to better prepare 
students to choose a career, the 
Student Alumni Relations Group 
(SARG) and the Alumni 
Association will sponsor a Career 
Information Program, Monday 
night, March 4. 

The Program, to be held in the 
Morrissey Chapel at 6:30p.m., will 
feature three ND alumni, who will 
discuss their jobs in the fields of 
law, industrial engineering, and 
insurance. 

All are invited, and it has been 
announced that the Program will 
end before the John Denver 
Concert. 

three bedroom, one family home," said Von Braun. 
It is equipped with various scientific instruments: infra-red cameras which take pictures of the earth and can reveal the turbidity in coastal waters; and a solar laboratory with powerful telescopes. These take X-ray pictures of both the solar sphere and corona which cannot be taken here on earth because our at­mosphere is too opaque for such penetration. 
Important medical information was another result of Skylab. Doctors had many questions about the effect of prolonged weightlessness on the human metabolism and muscle atrophy resulting from time spent in space, noted Von Braun. 
Advances are many 

Technological advances ac­cuing from the Skylab ex­periments are many. The possibility of creating immiscible alloys, such as lead with aluminum or lead with gold, those incapable of being mined on earth because of gravity, was suggested. Further, Von Braun spoke of finding a "superconcuctor", an alloy in which all resistence to electricity has dropped to zero. 
"A superconductor can be loaded with electrical charge until it becomes a source of power," he explained, "This could virtually solve all our energy problems and it would pay for the total expense of the apace pi'OII'am." 
Looking towards the next two decades in space 'exploration, is about the size of a DC-9 with three engines and booster rockets which are jettisoned but retreived for reuse. Astronauts will pilot the shuttle, but it also has a passenger compartment for specialists to travel up into space. "By 1980 we will have completely retired our present launch stable of orbital rockets, " predicted Von Braun. 
Comsats important 
Unmanned communciation 

satellites will also play an im­
portant role in the application of 
space exploration for mankind. 
Von Braun outlined the ATS-F 
satellite program which will be 
sent up later this year. It will 
make possible direct transmission 
of television signals without the 
complicated network of stations 
and broadcasting equipment now 
necessary. 
The country of India, a land of 

500 million people 80 per cent of 
which are illiterate, will have use 
of this new satellite beginning in 
April 1975. The massive education 
program utilizing television to 
reach many villages now remote 
from any outside communication 
represents a giant step forward for 
such a developing nation as India. 
"Those who said space ex­' ploration was only for the richest 
of the rich," concluded Von Braun, 
"were clearly wrong: now we see 
those that shall benefit most will be 
the poorest of tbe poor••• 
Monday, March 4, 1974 the observer 
Digger's seniors go out in style 
by Vic Dorr after Saturday's home finale. hard-nosed club stole the spotlight two jumpers from the baseline Dayton's at-home strength. Sports Editor 'Tll never b~,ab~e to thank,?ur from N_D's NCAA bid. . gave ND a 79-54 spread with 10:47 "The game at Dayton will be a semors enough, said Ph.elps. ~o The. Cats pla~ed ~ead:up With left. tough one involving two tour-
one can ever know what It was hke the Insh for the first SIX mmutes of
The opponent was unranked and 
for thell_l two years ago, when we the contest, and pulled ahead by
the margin of victory was massive, 
were gomg through that 6-20 rear. two, 16-14, when Lar~y Moody
but to Notre Dame basketball 
~oonecanreallyknowwhatitwas ~anned an 18-footer With 13:17left
coach Digger Phelps, Saturday's 
hke to see them suffer then, to see m the half.
115-85 triumph over Villanova was 
them fade away somewhat last But Moody's score was followed
still significant. 
year, and to s~ som~,of them not immedia~ely by an Irish time""?ut,
The Irish coach was pleased 
ev.~n dress this y~ar. . . and t~e hme-out was followed JUSt
because his club had just notched 
. But psychologi~a.lly I thm~ this as qmckly_ by buckets by Novak,
its 24th victory of the season, tying 
wlll be a great. positive ex~rien~e Ray Marh_nl Gary . Brokaw, and
a modern ND record, and he was 
f?r them. It Will help them m their Novak agam, and VIllanova never
pleased because his cagers had 
hves when they look back on what got closer than four after that. A7­
just completed an undefeated at­
they hav~ accomplished with us. ? Irish. s~urt fo:ur minut~s b~fore
home campaign. But even though 
T~e happmess of a~ ~f these guys m~ermiSSion hiked ND s eight-
Phelps was pleased by those 
might not be as fulfilhng as that of, pomt. lead ~o 15, 46-31! and .~fter
things, he didn't mention them in 
say, Gary Novak, but they were a that It was JUSt a question of how
his post-game locker-room. 
part of the team that too~ us from m~ny?" . .
Instead, he immediately men­
6-20 to 24-1. And my praise today . Any chance ~e had of. wmnmg
tioned his players. And not his 
goes out to all of those guys." this game," sighed VIllanova
young stars, either. Not first-year 
Four of Phelp's fourth-year coach Massimino, "went right out
forward Adrian Dantley, who 
scored 19 points and pulled down players saw time at the end of the the window when we got into early 
game, when the triumph had foul trouble in the second half.
four rebounds. Not juniors John 
already been salted away. But the Notre Dame went into the bonus
Shumate and Gary Brokaw, who 
fifth, Gary Novak, a three-year situation with more than 16
between them accounted for 50 
starter for the Irish, logged 25 minutes left in the game.
points and 22 rebounds. And not 
minu!es against _Yillanova and "But I'll tell you," he continued,
Dice Martin, who performed 
contnbuted 10 pomts and seven "they are a very, very fine ball
superbly for 35 minutes as a 
rebounds. club. When they start running at
replacement starter for junior 
"This is really great," said you, it's really tough to stop them. 
playmaker Dwight Clay. 
Novak, a 6-7, 195-pounder from They're as good as anyone we've
The players Phelps mentioned 
L~Salle, Ill. "It's ?reat to go ?ut played, and we've played
were his seniors. Players like 
with the success we ve been havmg everyone--including North
Gary Novak, Chris Stevens, Tom 
this season. You know, to start out Carolina State."
Hansen, Ken Wolbeck, and Leo Schmelzer. Players who had just as a _6-20 ~op_ho~ore and then to The foul trouble Massimino 
completed their last home game in end. hke this IS JUSt a tremendous mentioned was a fifth personal 
the ACC. And players who had feehng. And h~pefully, now, assessed against Wildcat star 
· there's more of It to come. d · h
been regulars--and even starters­
Hopefully, we'll go on to win the Larry_ Moody, who departe w~t
for Phelps when the Irish suffered Nat" nal T"tl , 16 po)nts and four rebounds with 
through their nightmarish 6-20 10 1 e. 16:17 left to play. The Irish lead 
season in 71-72. The National Title and the NCAA was still 15 when Moody sat down, 
Two cage seasons and two tournament may have been up for but during the next six minutes it 
recruiting campaigns later had left discussion once Villanova had been ballooned to 25. John Shumate, 
only Novak in possession of a disposed of, but during the first 20 who scored only eight points 
starting job, but Phelps was more minutes of Saturday's game coach during the first half, erupted 
than willing to ignore that fact Roland Massimino's scrappy, during the second period, and his 
ND unveils 1974 Bengal Bouts 
(continued from page 8) route to a split decision. Although comoinations. Momentum 
both were agressive boxers, it was changed to McGarry in the middle 
Bradley in one of the hardest the constant pressure by Sherry in of round two as he connected with 
fought bouts of the day. Clune round three which earned him the an overhand right to Yonto's face. 
applied steady pressure in the right to continue in the semi's The third round was very close 
third round, showing a lot of poise Tuesday. C.J. Ludford and Dan with Yonto chasing McGarry with 
and strength as he staggered Bettencourt also won spots in the a flurry of punches as the final bell 
Bradley. 1973 runner-up, Steve semi's via unanimous deicions. In sounded. 
Duffy gave first year boxer Terry defeating senior Steve Case, at 175 pounds, Bill Doran won a 
Kann a good lesson in the art of Ludford relied on a constant attack unanimous decision over another 
boxing in the final bout at 140. of right and left hooks. First year first year boxer, Bob Farrell. 
Duffy maintained an edge boxer, Bettencourt found the going After a strong left jab by Doran, 
throughout the match using a rough in his first bout. He defeated Farrell gained momentum in the 
strong right jab to keep Kann up junior Tom Wilbur, a 1973 first round through a series of 
against the ropes a good portion of semifinalist in a match between combination punches. The 
the bout. two agressive fighters. Bet-montum swung to Doran in the 
Charlie· Morrison, defending tencourt gained an edge in a a third second round as he kept pressure 
champion at 150 pounds, won his round series of crowd-pleasing on a tiring Farrell. In the third 
quarterfinal bout by a unanimous combination flurries. round, Doran connected without 
decision over Morrissey junior, AI Two Alumni Hall residents problem, as he bloodied Farrell's 
Fisher. Morrison, an extremely opened the competition at 165 mouth. 
agressive boxer, kept Fisher in pounds with junior Bob Popke Four first year boxers in the 185 
check throughout with his left jab, defeating sophomore Tom Wich by pound class provided the fans with 
staggering Fisher in the third a unanimous deicsion. Popke alot of excitement as both bouts 
round with a strong combination. staggered Wich in the first round were fast-moving, hard fo'-'ght 
Sophomore Mike Shaw defeated with right and left hook com-matches. In the first bout, Kevin 
John Albers in a split decision at binations, and maintained control Buckley earned a unanimous 
150 pounds in a very close fight. throughout the bout. Kevin deicsion over Tom Santinello. 
Although each showed signs of Poupore, 1973 semi-finalist stopped Buckley decked Santinello in the 
fatigue in the third rounds, Shaw junior Bob Dressel, also by first round and kept the pressure 
earned the decision with his sharp unanimous deicsion. on, knocking him into the ropes 
left hooks and jabs. Each fighter had momentum at several· times thereafter. A 
At 155 pounds, John Sherry's one time during the fight, but the slugfest rounded off the afternoons 
quick left jab was the difference, difference was Poupore's left jab, card as two Joliet, Ill. boxers, Bob 
bloodying Bob Tivnan's nose in landing numerous punches to Ol~en and Rudy Ruettiger, ,ad­
Dressel's face. In a very close, mmstered a lot of punishment on 
contested fight, also at 165, Mike each other. With both boxers
Playoffs 
McGarry defeated Tony Yonto by receiving bloody noses, Olsen a split decision, which drew mixed earned a unanimous deicion (continued from page 8) emotions from the vocal crowd. scoring strongly in the third round Yonto was the agressor in round to win.
his first hat trick of the season and 
one, connecting with numerous (continued on page 6)
career-goal number-100, when he 
took a pass from Williams for a 
break-away at 8:33. The Irish had 
other opportunity to score but they 
couldn't get the puck past Perkins, 
who made 44 saves to Kronholm's 
38. 
So now it's off to Houghton, a 
national championship sti1l in 
mind, although it will probably 
take another miracle. Miracles 
have been a Notre Dame monopoly 
this season however, and so has 
Michigan Tech, Notre Dame's 
openiir. ~0&411.. ~ . op.po_ne~t ..·· 
,Hope£ . ~·will remam so .•.• , • 
0 
' ... '~-•• 0 i ' I .. , O \ 
"l.;'
·.'.-~ I ...~'\";,,v;,...;,~,,,\, ...II[{"'..J.'t:,A,~ 
The 'Cats rallied briefly during the final10 minutes, outscoring ND 10-2 at one point and cutting the 25­point bulge to 17. But the Irish reserves, to the delight of the season's lOth capacity home crowd, padded the lead back to 25 and then to 30 points during the game's waning moments. 
Tonight, Phelps and the number-two ranked Irish will close their regular season on the road against the Dayton Flyers. The Flyers, who Thursday received an NCAA far west bid, have been beaten at home only once this year. That one loss came to Louisville, 90-72, and the Irish are dutifully wary ofI ­
nament teams," said Phelps. "We'll be playing on a tartan floor there, and that should help us, since they have the same type of floor at Terre Haute. But we'll also have our hands full playing on that floor, because Dayton is really tough at home." 
The Flyers will put their at-home streak on the line against the Irish­-who have already snapped a streak or two this year--tonight at 
8:15 (e.s.t.) Phelp's club will return to South Bend tonight after the game, will take Monday off, and will begin practice Tuesday for its first-round game at In­diana State. 

CL R s s IFIE D R D 5 
888888888888888 
rides wanted 888888888888888 beauteous Bucolic Oregon Boldly Beckons: Need ride to Oregon or Washington Spring Break. Randy 2343254. 
Need ride to Long Island Spring Break. Call 8895. 
Need ride to St. Louis area Mar. 8 . Call 1619. 
Need ride toW. Va. for Spring Break. Call Pat 8943. 
Need ride to Boston Spring Break. CaiiJim 8549. 
FOR SALE 
Humidifier, $30. Sears 9x9 Umbrella tent,$20. Schwinn Pixie 16".$20. Call 234-7375 after 5. 
Sony TC -161· SO Dolby cassette. 1973 best model . List $329. Want $175. Call 3254. 
Limited supply of stereo equipment . All receiveers , tape,decks, speakers, 25 peer cent off. 8436 8437, 8782. 
'70 Pontiac Le Mans power, automatic, $1175. Call Gary 259-5894. 
Shotgum Westeern Field gaugee 16, $70. Teexas E Elctronic Calculator SR-10 $75. BSR turntable $55. All items 3 mos. old. Call 289-1159 afteer 6 pm. 
WANTED 
Riders wanted ST. Louis, KC, Wichiata Mar. 8.9. 234-8772. 
Need housemante for 2 BR house off Anglea Call Mike 234­8314. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund: Loan up to $150 for 30 days, 1 peer ceent inteereest seervicee charge. One day wati. 
Bsement of LaFortune. Hours 11:15-12:15. 
SMC Summeer School inLondon tr'avel to Ireland, Walees, Scotland aEngland and Paris. May 20-Jun20. Collegee Credit available. $795 plus tuition. Professor Black 2844-4948 offoce 272-3726 home. 
For a Greyhound ticket to 
Ch9cago  or  any  city  with  
connections  in  Chicago  call  
Tom  Boueer 272-1807.  

Experienced typist wil do typing. Thems, manuscripts, Ca II 233-5332. 
PERSONALS 
To me Malinky Devotchka along the shores oof the Weekar Happy two years in one week. Your rat. 
Belated B-day wishes, Karen 
H. Love and kisses, Alice Cooper. 
Flanner: vote for Card and Fitz. Zeta Beta Bong. 
Happy Birthday Sweet and Sauer. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost green parka at Keenan party. Call 8659 Larry. 
Have you checked Rm. 150 Ad Bldg for your lost notebook and textbooks?? We also have hats and gloves. Hours 10-12, 1-5,7­9 Mon-Fri. Articles from first semster also. 


.. 
"'­
the observer Monday, March 4, 1974
8 
leers split; clinch playoff berth 
Kronholm stars in Saturday victory: Huskies are first-round foe 
by John Fineran 
MADISON, WISC. -"Hail Mary, full of grace ... Notre Dame is 8th place." 
So the sign read at the Dane County Coliseum and for 24 hours, it was wrong. For after Friday night, the Irish icers were in 9th place but after Saturday night Notre Dame was on its way to Houghton, Michigan for the WCHA playoffs--an 8th place team for sure, but a very happy one indeed. 
In this year of athletic miracles, Notre Dame has been prevalent. First football ... next basket­ball ...now hockey. Irish eyes have indeed smiled, and for the Irish hockey team, they made no ex­ception. 
Facing elimination, the Irish icers show what they are made of. 
... Forget the year-this team still has talent. And that talent came through when others would have fallen. Five to one was the score Saturday, and with Denver's 7-1 win at Colorado College, the Irish beat the Tigers by a single point, 23-22, for the 8th and final spot in the league playoffs. Forget the season; a new one is starting. If the Irish play like they did Saturday night it might be awhile before this group of 19 skaters sees the Golden Dome again. Who knows, it's been that type of season. · The Irish romped ahead, 4-0, on Saturday, much to the dismay of the capacity crowd of 8,431 at the Coliseum. They did it with op­portunistic scoring, but most of all, they did it with fine play. The Irish made only one mistake which hurt all evening when Billy Reay scored on a third-period slapshot. Ian Williams started it all 50 seconds into the first period, wristing Brian Walsh's cross­crease pass past freshman goalie Mike Dibble. At 6:04, Pat Conroy deflected Paul Clarke's point shot past Dibble for a 2-0 ND lead. But the big goal-the most im­portant one of the season-came at 
13:57 of period one when Clark Hamilton scored on a short-handed situation. Hamilton's goal was a break-away which Dibble merely waved at with his glove as it ripped into the net. That goal, along with Eddie Bumbacco's second-period backhander, made it 4-0 Notre Dame at the end of two. 
Bumbacco also inadvertently figured in Wisconsin's only goal of the evening. While skating after a puck in the Irish zone, Eddie slipped, and Reay, the son of Chicago Black Hawk coach Billy Reay, Sr., gathered up the loose puck and slapped it by Mark 
I Kronholm at 3:11. Ray DeLorenzi broke a scoring , slump while at the same time ' giving the Irish another four-goal · lead when his slap shot at 16:04 beat Dibble for the game's fianl tally. Kronholm was the difference in the game. The Irish netminder was super, stopping 17 Badger shots (Wisconsin took a game total of 39) in the second period. I Frequently the senior f.rom South St. Paul, Minnesota made back-to­hack saves to thwart the Badger attackers. Still, Kronholm's play was made possible by the excellent work of the back-checking forwards and the Irish defense. It was a team effort, something the Irish have needed for a long time. But for much of Saturday morning and afternoon it looked like the Irish would be coming back to South Bend instead of heading for Houghton. The Badgers jumped out to a 2-0 first period lead on Friday night. At 7:08, George Gwozbecky, who had come to ·Madison over the Christmas break, deflected a Bob Lundeen shot with his body past Irish goalie Kronholm and then, with less-than-a-minute to go in the period, the Irish committed the pinnacle of hockey sins, allowing Stan Hinkley to score on a break­away at 19:21. Wisconsin skated out, perhaps with the silly notion that the Irish were going to roll over and play dead and despite having more shots, the Badgers found them­selves tied 2-2 at the second-period intermission. Bumbacco scored both Irish goals, the first coming at 6:29 with the Irish on a power play. Notre Dame controlled the puck in the Badger zone for better than a minute, and Bumbacco made the two-goal margin one, batting a rebound past goalie Dick Perkins. 

Bumbacco's second goal came just after another Irish power play. Walsh, taking a pass from Roger Bourque, threw a beautiful cross­crease pass to Eddie, who found the leftside of the Wisconsin net yawning at 12:21. 
Notre Dame just missed making it 3-2, but DeLorenzi misfired on a break-away with 1:55 left in the period. The Badgers however did open up a 3-2 lead in the third period as a result of an Irish penalty at the end of the second. Steve Curry was whistled for high­sticking at the buzzer and Dennis Olmstead gave the Badgers a 3-2 lead at 1:45. 
Ian Williams was called for slashing at 5:40, and while he was off, Lundeen scored the winning goal, slapping the puck past Kronholm at 7:25. Still, the Irish fought back tenaciously. 
Bumbacco added his third goal, 
(continued on page 7) 

Heavy action opens '74 Bouts 
Senior forward Gary "Goose" Novak whirls past Villanova's Larry Moody in Saturday's 115-85 victory In the ACC-Novak scored 10 points and hauled in seven rebounds in his last home appearance for Notre Dame. Above, two namesakes meet at center-court before the game. The Villanova game story Is on page seven. 
year's victim was Glenn Sorge at 
1:20 of the second round. Sorge held his own in the first round, but Zawalich's hard body punching with constant jabbing staggered Sorge several times. 
The third TKO of the afternoon was the quickest of the day. In displaying possibly the most finesse and strength of Sunday's fighters, Byron King started fast against Mike O'Brien with a sharp left jab and kept up the constant pressure. King finished the fight after just 45 seconds with a powerful right hook to the left side of O'Brien's face, causing multiple bleeding. 
Each of the three bouts in the 130 pound class was a close agressive battle. Junior Mike Cramer opened the day's action with a split decision over the only freshman entered in this years bouts, Pat O'Brien. Cramer gained the decision through a combination of punches to the head of O'Brien. The defending champion in that weight class, Eli Guajardo of Cavanaugh Hall won a unanimous decision over Marc Ronquillo in the best fight of that class. Although each was an agressive fighter, Guajardo scored heavily in the third round with a right which drew blood on his opponents face. 
First year fighter Tony Mon­tagnese earned the right to meet Guajardo in Tuesday's semi-finals through a splite decision over sophomore Tim Goddu. Following two relatively quiet rounds, Montagnese opened strongly in the third round, driving Goddu up aginst the topes with a series of right jabs. 
A pair of first year fighters, Joe Corcoran and Allan Bryan opened the competition at 140 pounds with Corcoran, a junior from Keenan Hall gaining a split decision. Corcoran scored strongly in the second and third rounds, bloodying Bryans nose. Jim Clune, defeated in last years quaterfinals, returned to face another veteran, Jerry 
(continued on page ?) 

by Tom Hansen 
Weeks of hard work and preparation paid off for twenty boxers in the 43rd annual Bengal Bouts yesterday, as victories moved each into Tuesday's semi­final round. Among the victors were two defending champions and another who reached the finals in last year's bouts. From the first fight in the 130 pound class through the final match in the 185 pound class, 1824 fans were treated to top competition in matches paired by meet director, Dominick J. <Nappy) Napolitano. 
Three of the fights were stopped via technical knockouts while six other bouts ended in split decisions. The first TKO was registered by sophomore Phil Harbert of Morrissey Hall in the 150 pound class. Harbert scored the first knockdown of the af­ternoon early in the fight, staggering his opponent, Walt Barry, with a combination of right upper-cuts. The fight was stopped at the one minute point of the first round. For the second time in as many years, sophomore Chet Zawalich scored a technical knockout in the quarterfinals. This 



