-----~-----------­
OD The Inside 
Letters to the Editor ••• page 6 Homecoming plans ••• page 4 
-st. mary's community

Vol. IX, No. 16 Thursday, September 19, 1974

Eleven arrested •lD Louie·s raid 
by Terry Keeney and Tom Drape 
Nine Notre Dame and two St. Mary's students were arrested last night by South Bend police vice­squad officers at Louie's Restaurant, 744 N. Notre Dame Avenue, on charges of minors frequenting a tavern. 
Ten of the 11 students were being held on a $50 bond at the South Bend police station, 701 W. sample. The other student, a 17 year-old minor, was charged with a curfew violation and released without bond. 
Two plain-clothed vice officers and three uniformed officers entered the restaurant about 
11:15 p.m. CUstomers in the front bar area were told to produce identification. Underage students were then arrested and placed in custody. 
Witnesses said tbat identifications of students in the rear, eating area of the restaurant were not checked by the officers. An estimated crowd of 40 people were in the bar at the time of the raid. 
The 11 underage students in the front part of the restaurant were then taken into custody and placed into a police van. 
One of the arresting vice-officers, Vinson Smith, said that the owner of Louie's, Louis Rappelli, had been warned four times during thepastseven days about serving minors. Smith said tbat fair warning had been given. 
"There were more kids in there underage but they were in the back in the eating area so we didn't get them," Smith said. "None were charged with 

consuming but only with minors frequenting a 
Steakhouse, no different than the Morris Inn,"tavern" Rappelli said. 
Smith said that South Bend Safety Director, Pat 
The owner of Louie's said that eveyone served a
Gallagher, had warned Dean of Students, John 
beer there last night was 21. But added, "What they 
Macheca, about a crackdown on underage drinking. 
do with it isn't my business."

According to Smith, special notice was made of the 
Among the 11 students arrested were: five Dillon 
seven bars south of the Notre Dame campus. 
hall residents, two Alumni hall residents, one
"We were directed by the mayor (Jerry Miller) 
Pangborn hall resident, one McCandless hall
about ten days ago to talk to all tavern owners on 
resident and one Regina hall resident. Iden­the northeast side," Smith said. 
tification of the students were not released.

A number of compalints about students at those 
The one minor arrested was released to the
bars had also been made by the Northeast Neigh­
custody of Brother John Benesh, Alumni Hall
borhood Association on Notre Dame Avenue. 
rector. Bond for the two St. Mary's women was
Smith estimated that out of the approximate 
posted by Stevie Wernig, assistant to the Vice­
crowd of 40, nearly 30 students were underage. The 
President for Student Affairs, from St. Mary's
total seating capacity of the restaurant is between 
funds. 

150 and 200. 
The other eight students were still in custody at
In reaction to the raid, Rappelli said, "It's just an 
the police station at 3 a.m. this morning. Court ordianry raid." 
dates for those charged with frequenting a tavern
"What are you going to do -this is a restaurant. 
were tentatively set for Sept. 24. 

Louie's Restaurant is no different than Eddie's 




Angela Davis stirs controversy 
Responding to recent controversey surrounding the appearance of Angela Davis tomorrow night, student government and student union officers yesterday restated their observance of the university's open speaker policy and demonstration rules. 
Pat M McLaughlin, student body president, Pat Burke, student union director and Andy Bury, s.u. academic commissioner all said that their support was prompted by numerous calls to student government and security about demonstrating at Davis's ap­pearance at 8 p.m., Friday in Stepan Center. 
"We have had a number of inquiries about why Angela Davis is being brought to speak on campus and whether people can demonstrate," Burke said. "And we wanted to make the clarification." 
Bury said that the academic commission bas always adherred to the open speaker policy. "As we have done always before, we will abide by it completely," be said. 
In addition, any person or groups wanting to demon­strate at Davis's appearance will bave to go through the Dean of Students office, McLaughlin said. 
The University open speaker policy states: Notre Dame students and student organizations are free to examine and to discuss all questions of interest to them, and to express opinions publicly and privately. They should exercise this freedom by the use of orderly means which do not disrupt the regular and essential operation of the University. 
Notre Dame students may invite and hear any person of their own choosing. The routine procedures required by the University before a guest speaker may be invited to appear on campus are designed only to insure orderly scheduling of facilities, adequate preparation for the event, and conduct of the occasion in a manner appropriate to an academic community. Sponsorhip of guest speakers does not imply approval or endorsement of the views expressed, either by the sponsoring group of the University. 
Under university regulations, "all demonstrations must be registered with the Dean of Students and also must observe the following rules:" 
a. 
All demonstrations must be peaceful and orderly. 

b. 
Only members of the University community may organize or lead a demonstration on campus. 

c. 
Demonstrators may not impede the freedom of the University community. 


McLaughlin said that he expected additional security assistance would be requested for tomorrow night's speaker. 
"Mr. Peers (director of security) said that security will be increased," Burke said. He said assistance from the South Bend police and Indiana State Patrol would probably be sought. 
Burke and Bury both said that speakers appealing to 
a wide range of people is a definite factor in scheduling appearances. All three officers agreed that future speaker policy would be affected by the present con­troversey. 
AAUP 
lollowup 
••• page 3 

-----~~­
----------~--------------------------------------------~-----------------­
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Congress is close to approving legislation that would give the consumer his best legal protection yet against the furstration and expense of hying a shiny new car in the showroom that turns out to be a "lemon" that the dealer and manufacturer refuse to fix at their own expense. 
The bill, known on Capitol Hill as the "Lemon Law," is an amendment to a routine extension of the 1966 National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act. Its sponsors believe it would go a long way toward satisfying consumer complaints about defective automobiles. 
MOSCOW <UPI) -Soviet scientist Grigory S. Khozin accused former U.S. Ambassador Foy. D. Kohler Wednesday of trying to sabotagee the joint Soviet-American space program. Kohler rejected the charge. 
OAKLAND <UPI) -Black activist Angela Davis filed a $75,000 claim Wednesday against the City of Iakland and Alameda County, charging she was unlawfully detained while deputies ran a warrant check. 
TEL AVIV <UPI) -Israeli gunners fired mortar shslls Wed­nesday at suspected Arab guerrilla concentrations in Lebanon Wednesday in what a military source decribed as routine preventive action. 
SAIGON <UPil -Government troops reoccupied a militia outpost abandoned after a daylong fight that cost the Communist attackers 54 dea d but the fate of 2,500 villagers is not known, field officers reported Wednesday. 
an campus l:aday 
4 pm ·seminar, "discussion on electron transport and scavenging reactions In non-polar liquids" by dr_ mozunder, rad.lab. conf. rm. 
7 pm -meeting, lnplrg town meeting, rm. 1-3 Iafortune. 
7-9 pm-movie, "bonnie & clyde", washington hall, $1. 
8 pm -recital, "composer's recital" by barton mclean, little theatre. 
ROO< & Ra.L NITELY 
(Except Tuesday) "'"9 
~~ ~ 
,~ ............................... () 
~ .; ~ \ S F R 0 M LA S V EG As:. ~ .: ~ ~ ~ ¥--"SHN+JGO" ••••• , ~ '···························· ~ 
MO N NITES -PIZZA SPECIAL & 25~DRAFT BEER WED Nllei-DRINK &DR 0 W N 
T H U R S NIT ES-PtT CHE R 8 E E R N ITE 
VVHTE HOUSE I~ 
''T H E IN P LACE " 
2839N 5th 683-9842 
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. Take U.S. 31 to Niles, then north on Highway 51,3 mi., 



Boston unrest continues 
By United Press International 
A fist fight between black and white children triggered a walkout by 40 blacks Wednes­day in the court-ordered inte­gration of Boston schools_ Flag­waving protesters against con­troversial textbooks besieged the school board offices at Charleston, W.Va. 
New teacher strikes hit two Chicago suburban high schools, the Erie, Pa., school system, and schools in a Bucks County, Pa., district. Scores of thou­sands of children were affected by scattered teacher strikes across the nation. 
Four white youngsters at Boston's Washington Irving Junior High School received minor injuries in a schoolyard skirmich, the first physical clash between black and white 
Vote drive extended 
by Catherine Brown Staff Reporter 

The final count of the number of students registered to vote in In­diana through the student government sponsored voter registration drive will probably be released "in about two weeks," reported the drive,s chairman, Rich O,Connor. 
The drive has been extended from registration at La Fortune and the dinine: halls to include a 
(continued on page 4) 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the c~lege semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. lnd: 
46556. 
students in the current con­
troversy. 
They-were taken home by the parents and 40 black children walked out of school after the incident Officials also reported a "hair-pulling" tussle between a white girl and two black teen­agers at a high school. 
Large numbers of whites 
continued to boycott classes in 
Boston, but school officials said 
they believed attendance city­
wide was up slightly. 
Some 250 protesters at 
Charleston listened to Gospel 
music over a police loud­
speaker, waved American flags 
and carried signs with slogans 
such as "God is not a myth to 
our children." 
School board members stud­
ied their demand that new 
textbooks be removed from all 
Kanawwha County Schools. 
The protesters charged that the 
textbooks were obscene and 
anti-American and give religion 
a "fairytale" treatment 
About 20 per cent of the county's 45,000 pupils stayed away from classes and thou­sands of coal miners in four 
counties stayed off their jobs in 
the weeklong protest 
The new teacher strikes in Pennsylvania brought to 12 the number of districts hit and to 61,520 the number of students affected. Schools remained open in Erie but attendance was down sharply. Schools were closed in the Bensalem district of Bucks County. 
On the western fringe of Chicago, teachers walked out at Addison Trail and Willowbrook high schools. The strike kept some 5,900 students from attending classes. 
A judge at Racine, Wis_, imposed a news blackout on negotiations aimed at settling a dispute which had shut down classes for some 30,000 children for 10 days. Teachers, who say they were locked out by the school board, received letters telling tern their request for unemployment compensation has been denied. 
About 600 teachers in Federal Way, Wash., ended a 20-day strike. They overwhelmingly ratified the first general con­tract they have ever had. 
HELD OVER

* * * * * * 
1 
Friday at 7:45, 9:45 sat. & sun. 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 fnl 
Mon-Thurs. 7:45, 9:45 
t!!J 

71L~ZING S~DDLBS 
from the people who gave you "The Jazz Singer" 

TOMORROW--­


GOLDIEHAWNi. 
THC fiiiiiiiDI IfliB 
I HL IIUUitHIItiiU CIIBDCfl(lLJirBLIIII ~ 

Fri & Mon-Thur 7:1~ 9:30 Sat & Sun I :15, 3:15,5:15, 7:15, 9:30 
Uuiler-tiuuse t=lix 
Twin Theatres -100 Center Complex -Mishawaka 

-----------.... .. -· 

1421 S. Walnut Street (219) 233·9441 South Bend, Indiana 46627 
SENIOR HOCKEY AT THE "ICE BOX" 
Pro Shop -Skate Sharpening -2 Rinks -Public Skating -Figure Skating -Lessons -Snacks ­Arcade -Skate Rental -Free Parking 
SENIOR HOCKEY-"CHECK" AND "NO CHECK" DIVISIONS­Play in either or both divisions -16 men per team -Locker rooms with showers available-16 game season with holiday tourney and playoffs-Jerseys and referees furnished-$3.50 per game -Game times 9:15pm and 10:45 pm. SIGN UP NOW for league starting
October 18th. 

For more information on this and our other programs call (219)
233-9441 

••••••••••••••••••••••••• SENIOR HOCKEY•••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
2. 

APPLICATION--­ ---SEND MORE INFORMATION  
Fri. "CHECK" --­ ---AGE  
Sun. "NO CHECK"  --­ --­ POSITION  

Nam~----------------------------------­
Address,-----------------------Phon1e------­
I 
l 
Ford foreign policy pledges food 
nizes the special responsibility both to provide a decent life for during his address, most of continumg conflict in Cyprus,By NICHOLAS DANILOFF 
we bear as the world's largest everyone," Ford said the them listening through the Indochina and the Middle East; UNITED NATIONS (UPI) -producer of food ... The United nations of the world should earphones which provided in-determination to bolster U.S. President Ford pledged States will not only maintain realize that: "Failure to partnerships with its traditional 
stantaneous translation. But
Wednesday that the United the amount it spends for food cooperate on oil, food, and allies plus willingness to "seek 
States will do its best to help shipments to nations in need, inflation could spell disaster for they gave him another 40-out and expand" relationshipssecond standing ovation when
fill the world's needs for food, but it will increase this every nation represented in this with old adversaries, and the
he concluded.
and challenged the Arab amount," he said. room." overweening requirement to
Earlier, on the plane from
countries to cooperate on "Now is the time for the oil In pointed reference to the prevent nuclear war.
Washington, Secretary of State
answering the demands for oil. producers to define their Arab oil producers, Ford said, But the thrust of his speech
Henry A. Kissinger had dis­
In his first major foreign conception of a global policy on "It has not been our policy to was to the worldwide shortage
cussed with reporters the
policy address, to warmly energy to meet the growing use food as a political weapon of food and fuel, and the
proposed new oil price in­
applauding delegates to the 29th need -and to do this without despite the oil embargo and inflationary impact of the 
creases announced this week in
session of the U.N. General imposing unacceptable burdens recent oil price and production shortage on the economy of all
the Middle East and said "it's
Assembly, Ford said the twin on the international monetary decisions." nations. 
a serious situation."
crises of food and energy now and trade system." Ford received a standing "A global strategy for food
In his speech, Ford made
"demonstrate the extent of our Declaring that "energy is ovation when he was in­and energy is urgently requi­
passing reference to various
interdependence." required to produce food and troduced. The 3,000 delegates red," Ford declared. 
"The United States recog-food to produce energy -and from 138 countries were silent foreign policy concerns 
"It would be tempting for the United States -beset by inflation and soaring energy prices -to turn a deaf ear to external appeals for food

Campus speakers announced 
assiostance, or to respond to 

by Val Zurblis Bury has announced. Julius Bond shown. Staff Reporter a member of the Georgia House of Student Union Academic Representatives will talk Sep­Rusty Rhodes presenting "Who 
Commissioner Andy Bury an­tember 25. In October, Richard Killed JFK?" is returning in Oc­nounced the on--eampus speakers Lugar and Birch Bayh, U.S. Senate tober due to popular demand. for this semester. candidates; Paul Soglin, mayor of 
November brings Prof. HansAngela Davis will speak Madison, Wisconson; John Con­Morganthau, historian; Otistomorrow in Stepan center at 8:00 way, president of the Common Bowen, governor of Indiana;pm starting off a parade of on­Cause and David Halbestam, Walter Cronkite, CBS announcercampus speakers for this author of The Best and the and David Tompson talking aboutsemester, Student Union Brightest will lecture. The film Northern Ireland. Other possibleAcademic Commissioner Andy "Executive Action" will also be 
speakers are Senator Ted Ken­nedy, Curt Gowdy, and GeorgeTo start IVbnday Gallop, Sr. 
Bury explained the Academic ~ es Commissions's policy this year.


SMC registers b•k 
"We won,t spend more than a $1500 flat rate for a speaker." The Diane Smits Commission is budgeted $10,000 a
charged to cover a process etching 
year and Bury wants to get asStaff Reporter the owner's social security number many speakers as possible.
Bike registration for St. Mary's on the bike. students opens Monday, Sep­Kovatch estimated that ap­
"The speaker prices are 
tember 23. Students may register proximately two hundred bikes outrageous," the commissioner bicycles Monday through Friday were registered last year. He 
continues. "They run from $750 to from 8:00a.m. to 4:00p.m. at the anticipates that twenty per cent of $3000 a night.." Bury feels the high 
Security Office. the bikes on campus this year will prices are due to schools willing to According to Mr. Anthony be registered. 
pay them.

Kovatch, director of campus Kovatch offered some advice to security at SMC, registration will bike owners stating that bikes Attendance at the lectures last continue until all the owners should be kept inside if at all year ran from BOO to hear Shirley wishing to register their bikes have possible or in well-lit areas. He Chisholm or Ann Landers in been taken care of said bikes should be locked at all Washington Hall to 1600 in Stepan 
A fee of seventy-five cents will be times. when Senator George McGovern 
AAUP clarifies report on University accounting method 
By Fred Herbst Faculty Senate Report.Staff Reporter 
Both Swartz and Trubac stated that the issue at hand is the Fr. James Burtchaell, priorities concerning the allocation University Provost, was ,AAUP charges of "creative" of the University's assets. "away trom tne University,"accounting by the University according to his secretary, andadministration were termed by Trubac then added that the could not be contacted to make aProf. Thomas Swartz, Chairman of "faculty is very interested in the statement concerning the AAUPCommittee Z, as "misrepresenting establishing of priorities and would charge against the administration. 
what the AAUP said." like to take an active role." 
Swartz noted that he is very Assistant Provost Dr. William
Swartz said the Observer's ar­optimistic about the chances of the Burke had not seen the Observerticle of Wednesday implied faculty being able to do so in the article and knew nothing of thesomething along the lines of a near future. 
matter. He therefore had nocorrupt practice by the University When asked if it were true that a comment.
administration. 
cost of living pay increase was one of the faculty's main priorities, Bro. Kieran Ryan, assistant vice While stressing that the method Trubac replied that such an in­president of business affairs,by which the University does their crease is a "goal." 
stated that he had no comment ataccounting is legitimate, Swartz 
However, Swartz noted that in 
this time. Yet he stressed thatremarked that the method "leaves 
order to give the faculty a cost of 
there will be a response to the a lot to be desired." livine inrrease, there would have C!harge in the near future. 
to be a r•aligning of University
On the same point, AAUP Chapter President Doctor Edward Trubac mentioned that Notre Dame uses the same "kind of 
-d0~1. PEP !tALLy· B:oo/) 
accounting procedure used by 
1.~~ ·~ 
most universities." Trubac went on to note that this procedure 
COACHES MURPHY & KELLY
"doesn't really give a true pic­ture" of the University's financial 
THE N.D. BAND, CHEERLEADERS 
situation. 
& SEVERAL FOOTBALL PLAYERS 
According to Trubac, a much better indication of the Univer­
Dillon· Alumni Courtyard
sity,s actual financial situation will 
internal appeals for export controls," he added. "But spoke. however difficult our own economic sitation, we recognize
The admission on all lectures is 
that the plight of others is

free. The movie is one dollar 
worse." 




Coming attraction 

The last five years have witnessed an in­credible resurgence of interest in the fine art of bicycling. More people than ever are taking to the road on bicycles, and more students have bicycles on campus. 
In response to this interest, Friday's Observer will feature a supplement highlighting bicycle trips in the South Bend Area. The supplement will feature tips on one-day trips. longer tours, sample trips in the area, and a philosophical in­troduction to the cosmic implications of bicycling. (A definite must-see for fans of the cosmos!) 

WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Senior& Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near lake Wawasee. 
Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL C. STONE (219}636-7189 
·~~ 
272-9800 
u& 
1723SOUTHBEND AVE. 

CASE SPECIALS -LOWEST IN TOWN WARM OR COLD! N • D • VIS IT 0 R S A T EVA N S T 0 N : TAME THE WILDCATS! 
JIM -'63 CHUC!'< '65 


be available after the release of the-••~. ."!"!" •• --=E~VE=R:.:..'fi.:..;:ON::o;.:, ·:;.;.:.T.=:ED::;;.·.:...;,!..;..;.· ..-,;..•'.-,;..• , •I 
P R 0 P R fE T 0 R S 
-~-•. "!"!" ..=...:I:.:..;:NVIo.::,. .~· ,....... ' 
''.,., ... 




Homecoming plans revealed 
by Lonnie Luna 
Staff Reporter .. 
Homecoming weekend begins Thursday, Oct. 10, announced Rich Gulitinan, Student Union Social Commissioner. Friday night is the Gordon Lightfoot concert with a pep rally following it. The Homecoming dance and party will be held in St. Joe's, Michigan at Silver Beach with continuous music from live bands. Busses will be provided for those students without cars. Wine, mixed drinks, and beer will be served to make the occasion festive. 
"I can't stress enough that we have to have responsibility with the use of alcohol if we are to continue having off-campus parties," commented Gulitinan. 
There will be two ticket packages for sale for Homecoming: Two tickets to the Rice-ND game and one party ticket (admits two) for $23 and 
There  will  be  two ticket  
packages  for  sale  for  
Homecoming:  

Two tickets to the Rice-ND game and one party ticket (admits two) for $23 and 
Two Gordon Lightfoot tix plus one party ticket for $21. Homecoming party tickets can also be bought separately at $6 per couple.
Other activities include a bus trip to the Michigan State game for a package price of $21. The package includes bus tran­sportation to and from the game, game ticket, lunch, and all the beer you can drink. After the bus returns a mini-concert or dance will be held at Stepan Center with music being provided by fine outside talent. 

Other Commission projects for the year include a series of fine speakers and prom-type dances. Gulitinan stated that the trend is now towards proms. He added that the junior and senior clases were having proms. 
And to get ready for the proms, the Social Commission is currently sponsoring a dance program in the LaFortune Ballroom every Monday night beginning this Monday night, Sept. 23, at 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. for the beginners and at 8:00-9:00 for the advanced students. 
The instructor, Fran DeMarco, 
•

Senior trip numbers r1se 
by Doug Meyers Staff Reporter 
A fourth plane has been obtained for the trip to the USC game, ac­cording to Greg Ericksen, senior 
Erlichmann requests trial delay 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Former White House aide John D. Ehrlich­man Tuesday asked Judge John J. Sirica to grant a delay of up to three months in the Watergate cover-up trial because former Presidnet Nixon's "personal ap­pearance at the trial is in­dispensible" to his defense. 
In a one paragraph request, Ehrlichman told Sirica that "recent public accounts of Mr. Nixon's health suggest that he may be physically unable to testify when called at the trial as now set." 
He said the trial, no SCHEDULED TO BEGIN Oct. 1 for himself and five other defen­dants in the Watergate cover-up case, should be postponed because Nixon's personal testimony is required. 
"A reasonable continuance of 60 to 90 days should be granted to assure the presence of Richard M. Nixon as a a witness," Ehrlich­man's brief said. 
There have been recent reports from Nixon's doctors, family and friends that the phlebitis in his left leg may require hospitalization. 
Nixon's lawyers asked Tuesday that he be relieved for reasons of health from the need to give a deposition in California for a civil suit brought by several persons who felt they were illegally barred from a Nixon campaign rally in North Carolina in 1972. 
Earlier, Sirica refused to allow Ehrlichman two subpoenas aimed at obtaining White House documents for his defense in the cover-up trial. Ehrlichman 's lawyer, Andrew Hall, maintained the documents were necessary to prepare an adequate defense. 
Hall had issued two subpoenas 
for a variety of White House 
documents ranging from Ehrlich­
man's personal notes , to all 
presidential taped conversations 
relating to the "Watergate mat­
ter." 
After a brief afternoon hearing, 
Sirica quashed the subpoenas on 
grounds they were far too broad to 
qualify under federal pre-trial 
procedures, and because Hall did 
not describe with enough 
specificity what materials he 
wanted and how they could be 
considered relevant to the defense. 
class president. This now makes room for 617 of 650 students who signed up for the trip. "We can almost assure those on the waitling list a ticket," Ericksen stated. 
The balance of the payment for the trip is due Friday, Sept. 20, and the payment of the balance will insure a reservation. Those who do not pay by Friday will forfeit their reservation. 
Ericksen stressed that they must have enough people to fill the fourth plane in order to put down a deposit, or they will have to cancel the extra olane. 
Plans for the trip began last summer. Bob Spam, class vice president, set-up car reservations, Chris Fenn, treasurer, worked on room reservations, and Joe Henderlong organized bus tran­
sportation  and  flight  
arran~ements.  
Responses  were  so  over­ 

whelming that the total cost of the trip has increased to $140,000 with thirty percent of the senior class going, claimed Ericksen. 
The students will stay in California six days and five nights at the International Motel in Marina Del Ray. 155 motel rooms have been reserced along with 150 cars and 16 busses. 
One hundred alumni from Michigan will be accomodated in the same hotel as the students thereby totaling ND fans at 700. 

Tours through Disneyland and Universal Studios are highlights of the trip, and a pep rally will be organized for Friday night before the game. 
Ericksen commented that "we want to organize a trip that will be more than just something to talk about in the future." 
(continued from page 2) 
Drive extended 
telephone and a door-to-door campaign. 
The drive, which proponents hope will give Notre Dame enough votes to form a "lobby" for student interests, is expected to wind down tonight. 
O,Connor added that he knew of no plans to attempt to coordinate Notre Dame,s drive with the registration of South Bend residents of the same age who might share student interests. He explained that this would be dif­ficult because "two different elections are involved. Notre Dame students are only eligible to vote in the county elections, not in the city." 
"The registration in South Bend isn,t going too well, as far as I know," continued O,Connor, who feels that most of the registered voters are "older people who have little interest in changing the drinking age." 
has taught for a number of years "We have developed thesewith Arthur Murray in Chicago. 
projects to get the students awayThe price for these lessons is $2 per from the campus boredom,

hour and there is no obligation for especially in the halls," continued students to attend all. They may 
Guitinan. He added that the Social 

attend only the lessons they wish to Commission is striving for moreattend. 
parties off campus. 


Rich Gulitinan: Projects to get students away from campus
b:lredom. 
SUNSHINE PR TIQ\JS PRESENTS 
AN EVENING OF SOUTHERN BOOGIE with 


LYNYRD SKYNYRD 
and special guest 

HYDRA 

7:30 p.m. TlESDAY OCTOBER 1 M~RIS CIVIC AUDIT~IlJV\ at Northend of River Bend 
Pl,aza, Downtown South Bend 
Tickets: 
$5.00 Advance, $6.00 Day of Show AVAILABLE AT AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE & BOOGIE RECORDS 
LOCAL TALENT 



ATTENTION 
Anyone Wshing to Have lheir Name Placed in a Directory of Campus and tocal Talent Now Being Compiled, Please Contact John Eidt at 8232 (leave a Message) or Write to Box 639, Notre Dame, IN. Please Include all Pertinent Info. (Type of Music, Price, Dates, AdCJress) 
. \ ' ., . . ' 


Jaworski authority sought 
By CLAY F. RICHARDS 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Sen­ate Democrats proposed Wednesday that Watergate Prosecutor Leon Jaworski be given authority to make public the evidence he has collected on former President Nixon's role in the scandal. 
Democratic Whip Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia said he was studying possible legisla­tion permitting Jaworski to make a full report of Nixon's actions. 
Jaworski said in a letter to eight Democratic senators ear­lier that he lacked the authority to divulge grand jury evidence against Nixon. 
Byrd also asked the Senate Judiciary Committee to hold a meeting, and hearings if necessary, "to determine if the public interest would be best served by making explicit the 
authority  of  the  special  
prosecutor  to  include  such  
material  in  his  final  report."  

Another Democrat. Sen. Phi-
Speaks to UN 
lip A. Hart of Michigan, said he also favored a full public report, but added that he wanted to make sure Nixon had "his day in court" and would be allowed to respond to Jaworski's report. 
It was learned that several other Democrats were studying legislation to turn the Water­gate grand jury into a special grand jury, giving it the power to make a "presentment" or statement of the evidence involvin~ Nixon. 
In a letter to Judiciary Chairman James 0. Eastland, D-Miss., Byrd also suggested that all of Nixon's tapes and documents remain at the White House until the issue is resolved. 
"If the Judiciary Committee could go forward to President Ford urging him to keep such materials under his custody in Washington until the pending proceedings are resolved," Byrd said. 
Byrd and Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield have sponsored a resolution calling on Ford to make public all facts connection with the Watergate scandal. 
Hart said in an interview the Senate should "press forward to get a fUll report" on Nixon's involvement. 
"We have a duty to do it, but we should first provide a draft to Nixon so he can spell out his response before it's made 

Students take advantage of the last days of summer to catch up (or
public," Hart said. 
begin) semester studies. 



NATO claims Red spying 
LONDON <UPI) -A North Atlantic Treaty Organization annoucement said Wednesday that Soviet planes and ships are "snooping" persistently on NATO ship movements in their current exercise in Northern waters .It said Soviet planes have been repeatedly intercepted. 
The office of the Commander-in­Chief East Atlantic headquarter said Soviet "Badger" planes were intercepted by Royal Air Force planes Tuesdayeast of the Shetland Isles. Later Soviet long-range 

Ford supports Kissinger 
By NICHOLAS DANILOFF 
UNITED NATIONS (UPI) .,­Apparently seeking to undercut Congressional criticism, Presi­dent Ford Wednesday made an extraordinary statement of "full support" for Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger before the United Nations. 
At the start of his 20-minute address to the U.N. General Assembly, Ford departed from his prepared text and said: 
"It should be emphatically understood that the secretary of state has my full support and the unquestioned backing of the American people." 
Kissinger has come under fire again from critical U.S. Senators who suspect that he may have misled them as to the extent of CIA intervention in Chile during his confirmation testimony last year. 
In another apparent effort to dampen Congressional fire, the secretary of state disclosed to pool reporters on the flight from Washington that the White House was convening Thursday a meeting of top Congressional leaders to examine Central Intelligence Operations in Chile. 
White House sources said among those invited to attend were Senate Democratic leader 


endoz.a:s 
241 Dixieway North 1 mi. north of ND 
guitar 1 repair and headquarters~ instruction 
Everything for the guitaris 
Mike Mansfield, Senate Repub­lican leader Hugh Scott, House Speaker Carl Albert, House Democratic leader Thomas O'Neill and House Republican leader John Rhodes. 
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee unanimously decid­ed Tuesday to examine pub­lished reports of U.S. intervention in Chile and to determine whether high U.S. officials -including Kissinger -misled or lied to the committee. 
Ford's impromptu statement of support came at the start of his first major foreign policy address, delivered shortly after noon to the U.N. General Assembly. 
"Next week Secretary of State Henry Kissinger will present in specifics the overall principles which I will outline in my remarks. It should be emphatically understood that the secretary of state has my full support and the unques­tioned backing of the American people," Ford said. 
"As a party leader in Congress and vice president and now the President of the United States of America, I have had the closest working relationship with Secretary of State Kissinger. I have support­ed and will continue to endorse his many efforts as secretary of state and head of our National Security Council system to build a world of peace." 
Ford's last line appeared to be a further high-level denial that consideration was being given to removing Kissinger from his "second hat" as chief of the National Security Council staff. 
COME TO THE lnPIRG 
"TOWN MEETING'' ToNIGHT-THURS. SEPT. 19 7:00P.M ROOM 1-C LaFORll.N FIN> OOT WHAT 
YOU 


CANDO! 
"Bear" planes were intercepted by RAF Phantoms west of the Faroe Islands. 
The announcement also said Canadian and Dutch recon­naissance planes have joined RAF planes to keep track of "numerous Soviet ships and submarines in the exercise area in the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea." 
The Soviets have all along been extremely sensitive to any Western defense movements in or close to the northern waters. 
They have a strong fleet con­centrated in the areamd maintain a wide-ranging radar screen. Soviet submarines are known to be very active in the area, to watch movements of allied shipping and aircraft activities. 
Defense experts said the Russians have frequently shadowed NATO ships on their maneuvers in the Atlantic and in the Mediterranean where they maintain a considerable fleet of their own since the Arab-Israeli 
wars. 
The Soviets have in the past made little effort to camouflage their snooping activities on NATO 
exercises.  At  times  their  spy  
vessels  came  close  to  allied  
warships,  barely  avoiding  
collision.  

Nevertheless defense experts said the current Soviet shadowing of the NATO exercise in northern waters seems particualrly inen­sive and persistent. 
The announcement Wednesday underscored the persiste11ce of Soviet "snooping" which required concerted Allied efforts to drive them off. 

~------------------------------~ 
CAPRI LIQUOR STORE 
SUPER LOW BEER PRICES TRY US & COMPARE 1357 N. IRONWOOD 

*SANDALS CLEARANCE* 
TATAMI SANDALS 

50% OFF! 
REG. 3.99 f'OW 2.88 
11illl' 1111111111'11; 
New hours Mon.-Thurs. 10-9 Fri.-Sat. 10-10 Sun 12-6 100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
...... Old ~~a-··._, 

~------------------------~·L·~..~.. ~··~~~~~~~~~---­
_._IIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUI 


express sorrow that I can not, in my own mind, join your throng. 
Dan Henderson 301 Howard 
Suffering at the words of others 
Dear Editor, Re: Mr. Graver's "The Frantic One" 
I was very upset to read your derogatory inference to mongoloid paraplegics in Tbe Frantic One today. I feel it my duty to voice an objection in the name of all of us who have by some quirk of fate been striken by mongolic paraplegia. It is enough to face life with such tragic disabilities, why 

A rebuttal to Professor Rice Professor Rice in his essay  her own body. In commenting that abortion of a fetus is at the con­venience of others he ignores the long sad history of women who sought abortion prior to the Supreme Court decision. Ulegal abortion was to be had at con­siderable cost in pain, humiliation  of a beautiful blonde, Caucasian couple joyfully embracing with a foreground of flowers and a happy, plump, c:herubic baby. There was no suggestion in it of minority babies, starving babies or babies destined to live a few hungry disease-ridden years beofe their  opinion of the "quiet" off-campus minority. This is my second year off-campus, and there has never been one moment in those two years that I have regretted. Although that is not to say that there haven't been some distur­bing moments; like returning after  must we be made to suffer further at the hands-the words of others? Has a mongolic paraplegic ever harassed you? I think not. I do not understand how the author of a story such as the Frantic One's could be so hear­tless. Perhaps one day you or one  
Right-to-Life  (Observer,  Sep­ and money and very substantial  lives were postnatally and cruelly  Christmas holiday to discover that  of your loved ones will be struck  
tember  13, 1974)  takes  Father  risk to health and life. There were  aborted.  Right-to-Life  is  not  a  your  housemate  has  left  the  and you too shall experience the  
Hesburgh  to  task for  suggesting  over 1000 admissions for botched  simple  moral  absolute  as  thermostat at 75 degrees with the  heartbreak  of  mongolic  
that proponents of abortion not be  illegal abortions in one New York  suggested by Professor Rice.  At  kitchen window open,  or  finding  paraplegia.  
called murderers, and he infers that the University of Notre Dame,  Hospital in Whatever  1965, else  for example. may be said  least, numerous organizations with interests in ethics and morality  your car under four feet of snow­courtesy of the St. Joseph County  In addition to the inhumanity of your character's remark, it seem  
as a corporate body, should speak  abortion was not a decision made  support the Right-to-Choose, e.g.  Snow Crew, or discovering another  to me that any writer would take  
in  support  of  Right-to-Life  and  lightly for convenience.  Nowhere  American  Association  of  ticket on your car for the violation  greater care when treading on the  
against  abortion  as  a  moral  does Professor Rice consider the  University  Women,  American  of  some  ltnheard of law in C3.  toes of his public.  You must be  
obligation.  Professor  Rice  motivation  which  moves  some  Civil  Liberties  Union,  National  But all in all it has been one heck of  aware, Mr. Graver, that there are  
distinguishes between murder as a  women, 200,000 in New York alone,  Council of Jewish Women, United  a time.  over  four  thousand  members of  
criminal offense as defined by law  to  become  "murderers"  in  his  Methodist  Church,  United  Now may I suggest to the rank­ Mongolic Paraplegics Anonymous  
and abortion as murder defined as  terminology. In considering what  Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A.,  and-file of John Macheca's  com­ here at Notre Dame. I suggest that  
a moral offense.  He states that in  he terms the primary civil right he  Young  Women's  Christian  mand that if you don't like  the  you  publicly  apologize  to  all  
the latter case the offender is to be  ignores a right of women to choose  Association, to cite only a few from  climate; move, MOVE OFF! Then  members of MPA immediately.  
left  to  the mercy and justice of  which  was  finally upheld by the  a  recent  list  circulated  by  the  just possibly  the  administration  Do  not  take  this  lightly,  Mr.  
God.  Rather imodestly, however,  Supreme Court only after many  National Organization for Women  won't spend all its time creating a  Graver, for you risk alienating a  
Professor  Rice  insists  that  his  years  of  restrictive  state  <NOW).  Father Hesburgh is quite  structure  of  self-serving  great percentage of your Observer  
moral judgment of abortion and  legislation prohibiting  abortion.  correct in asserting that persons in  discipline; but may, just may do  readers.  
abortionists should be  reenacted  Such legislation existed primarily  these organizations should not be  something worthwhile, like helping  In closing, may I ask-have you  
into  a  law,  making  abortion  because of legislated morality_ the  called names simply because they  the  people  they  forced  off-by  ever considered joining MPA?  
murder in the criminal sense so it  same type of legislated morality,  do not agree with Professor Rice or  creating a working food co-op.  Sincerely,  
can be judged by men.  ironically enough,  which  also  others who oppose abortion.  MPA President and Founder  
In  charactistic  fashion,  as  a  prevented  access  to,  or even  in- In  pressing  for  a  formal  Dave B. Ercegovic, '75  
trained advocate, Professor Rice makes a telling case without  formation about, methods for many  birth years  control in ad- University position on abortion Professor Rice suggests that the  The-opinion of a  
considering evidence or point-()f­view other than those which support his case. He argues, peculiarly, that the use of the word murder applt.ed to the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther  dition to making abortion a crime, although not murder. Professor Rice suggests that minority groups, especially blacks, are opposed to abortion because of its genocidal overtones.  Univesity act as it does in sup­porting civil rights for minorities. It is not clear that the University has taken a formal position on civilth th" drights nor on o er e tea1 an n-moral issues too numerous to  Where is home? .To the drive to relricter students to ..~ vote,  fellow journalist To tbe Editor: You have failed to the nth degree in your role as journalists, and I strongly urge you to seek another  
King by Roy Wilkins suggests that it is appropriate to use murder for abortion as a moral offense. The killing od Dr. King was clearly a murder in the criminal sense even though the assassin was not known to Mr. Wilkins and had not yet been  This is a gross misrepresentation since the only right at issue is that of an individual woman to ter­minate her own pregnancy not, as genocide suggests, a mass sym­posimon birth control,arranged by Dr. Manier, may remember  mention. It, like other universties, is complying with legal and ad­ministrative directives which have appeared in the last few years with regard to civil rights. The University was no better nor no worse than other academic in- I very much admire the drive"to register students to exercise their legal voting right in Indiana. It is highly commendable for peoj)le to strive for social and political changes by using the proper channels and methods. Yet even  profession. Your coverage of the recent sex scandal on the Notre Dame campus as reported in the September m issue of the New Times turns my stomach as a fellow journalist... although I dread the distinction of being related to  
apprehended.  There was no doubt  Florynce  Kennedy's  highly  stitulionsin itspractices regarding  as  much  as  I  admire  the  you in any way, shape or form.  
that Dr· King had been killed with malice by a person or persons  emotional but effective attack on Professor Rice's antiabortion  civil rights regards.  for itself in these In any event, the  movements and goals which you are working for, I regret that I can  Did you talk to the girl? Did you speak with her family? Did you at  
unknown which was enough to turn  position.  Ms.  Kennedy,  a  black  prospect of the  University  as  a  not support or join your  ranks.  any time get off your golden domes  
out the police and the F.B.I. and  attorney  was  an  articulate  corporate  body  undertaking  to  and seek out the WHOLE story?  
for Mr. Wilkins to cry murder.  defender of black or white women's  support the moral position urged  I realize that for nine months of  Your lazy acceptance of "official"  
Professor Rice presses his right,  right  to  choose,  Jesse  Jackson  by  Professor  Rice  puts  an  un­ the year I reside in the state of  statements  as  to  what REALLY  
indeed his "duty of candor", to call  notwithstanding.  Professor Rice  warranted burden on the function  Indiana. But the residence is only  happened make your actions  no  
those who practice and those who  does  not  produce  evidence  that  of the University. If, its corporate  temporary.  For 19 years I have  more humane orprofes"Sionalthan  
support abortion, murderers.  Not  black or other minority women are  silence on an issue confers on it an  been, and still consider myself to  the hacks who write for the South  
all  who  support  the  Right-to­ less likely to seek abortion because  implicit legitimacy' as claimed by  be, a resident of the state of North  Bend  Tribune  or  run  your  
Choose  have  undergone  or  par- they fear genocide. He did not note  Professor Rice, then Notre Dame  Ctarolina,dpabey~  Ninflorth  Carocedlinab  university.  
ticipated in an abortion. Professor Rice lumps abortionalists and the abortion movement and quotes, with approval, a Danish cleric who asserted that, "widespread abortion was making Denmark a  that if Jesse Jackson is an­tiabortion Shirley Chisholm is not, nor is the National Council of Negro Women. Professor Rice does not address  ·ts t th v· t N1ent t support o e te arneM L · d w t tWar, Y at an a erga e1 among other recent immora actions. Surely that is not the case. Sincerely yours,  axes an mg uen Yth" d · h tate 1mgs one m my orne s · f 1 th t · I t ....... ee a smce am no a ..-­t manen nor 1 1 "d t f In ega rest en o -t" have no ng·ht to vote for the people who will run this state andmake decisions for its welfare.  Hesburgh's "compassionate" action in letting those young men go without the standard punishment which Macheca 's off"tce assigned, demonstrates the type of mentality which would  
nation  of  murderers".  In  this  himself to the kind of life there is a  Robert p. Mcintosh  I'm  in  favor  of  lowering  the  allow a rabid dog to run unchecked  
broad view of the term .we are all  right to.  Presumably that comes  Professor of Biology drinking age to  1s, but I feel  a  among a group of small children.  
murderers in  the  United  States,  later. A recent study for the World  deeper sense of obligation for the  A newspaper is  a  powerful in­ 
since the Supreme Court decision he cites upheld the right of women  Food Conference estimated that half of all child deaths are at­ ,A veterans view  needs and concerns of the com­munity, friends and family that I  strument, one which should not be abused. However, your total lack  
to have abortions and many h~ve elected to do so.  tributable to malnutrition and that 200 million living children are  of off-campus Iife  will be living in after I leave Notre Dame. My concerns are with who  of pursuit in this matter is the most blatant abuse of the power  
Professor Rice does not suggest  undernourished.  A recent widely  will be governing me in four years  you have.  
in his brief that the basis of the  circulated  Right-to-Life  flyer  Dear Editor,  instead of will  I  be able  to get  
Supreme Court's decision was the  contained a large, slightly out of  After four years at duLac I am  drunk in 4 months.  Steve Grimmer  
right of a woman to the privacy of  focus photograph, in roseate hues,  finally  motivated  to  voice  the  I wish your drive success, but  Bloomington, Indiana  

UlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiMIIUWIIIIUUWUIUilliiW---IIIWUIUIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlll 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIBIIIIIIU f he 0 bserVer 

OOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
Night Editor: Mike Strlckroth 

8.fJ., IT 15 MY OONION 
Asst. Night Editor: John Seller-berg

•(i) SHOIJW t/JC¥o1!3N 
THAT/([J4(CN Sfl{){/t[) NOT
Ot4Y, L..I5TtN -1HE R£ST 
Layout: Martha Fanning, Bob Green 

OF THIS /JtAt. IS 5{)41!3 
8!3 Al/..OWW TO 

GO 8!3 AUOIU£IJ 7lJ PLAY 
Karl Welnfurtner, Joe Kanabrockl
lf.AY FOOTBAll?

~ !ia?.T OF Q(l;STIONNAIRE 
AH13AO, FOOT8AU 1/NTI/.. SIJGI 
GOOO AF'1ER 1HA1; : kit GaTTA FlU. 01/T-IT'S 
Copy Editor: Pat Hanifin, Jeanne Murphy

ANSIIICR. IT'S filE
IF ~ IUIItN?" 

Wltt.Y. TIME AS IT CAN 8!3 
o CAt.UO 7}{!3 ~MAJ.£ ATHl/i7E 
Day Editor: Greg Bangs Edltoriills: Marlene Zloza Features: J. R. Baker Sports: Greg Corgan, Pete McHugh Typists: Ann Peelor, Barb Norcross, Tom 
Modglin, Jim Landis Compugrapflic Operator: Howard Halle Picture Screener: AI D'Antonio, Chris 
Smith Night Controller: Howard Halle, and Tim Murphy .Special Assistllnce: Marlene Zloza 
B.a,MAY I 

!?£t/A8t.Y PETERMINEP 
IIIlTH H6/

meanwhile, back in the old west... 
a review by fred graver 


The Hawkline Monster 
Richard Brautigan 
Simon and Schuster 
$5.95 
The first thing you notice about this book is that there is no girl on the cover. In fact, the cover is an illustration, not a photograph. That, in itself, is a major departure from the form of most Brautigan books. Only one other of his books features an illustration: A Confederate General From Big Sur. 
After you begin reading this book, there are other noticeable features. There is a strong narrative present, with very believable characters, and a sense of thematic unity from the start. 
The Hawkline Monster is Brautigan's most conventional novel to date. But don't think that has calmed his imagination any. The metaphors, analogies, and images flow just as clearly, with the same off-hand precision and humor that has always characterized his writing. A good example is the first description of the two main characters in the novel, a couple of misplaced cowboys. "Greer and Cameron," writes Brautigan, "had an aura about them that they could handle any situation that came up with a minimum amount of effort resulting in a maximum amount of effect." 
Then there is a chapter having to do with 
the funeral of a dwarf butler: 
"It did make burying the butler simpler. 
While Greer dug a small grave outside the 
house, just beyond the influence of the frost, 
Miss Hawkline went upstairs and got a 
suitcase." 
The novel opens with Greer and Cameron sitting in the middle of a pineapple field in Hawaii. Their living is killing people, and that's what they're in Hawaii for. But this time, they can't bring themselves to do it. For one thing, they look out of place in Hawaii; both dressed in clothes that belong in Eastern Oregon. For another, the man they are to kill is giving his son a riding lesson and as Cameron says, "I can't shoot a man when he's teaching his kid how to ride a horse. I'm not made that way." 
And so it begins. A novel filled with the presence of strange, inordinate, out-of-place elements in the midst of the American West, barely in the 20th century (1902). 
There is in this novel, as in Brautigan's others, a sense of the supremacy of the subjective, a sense of the final triumph of the illusory. 
The main characters in The Hawkline Monster have unusual names. But the towns have names that are commonplace and everyday, something that is not fitting with our romanticized view of the west. For example, there are two towns by the name of Billy and Brooks, directly across the mountain range from each other. As Brautigan relates: 
"The towns were named for Billy and Brooks Paterson: two brothzrs who had pioneered the county forty years before and had killed each other in a gunfight one September afternoon over the ownership of five chickens." 
Greer and Cameron are summoned to the home of the Hawkline sisters to kill the monster living in the ice caves under the house. From then on, Brautigan weaves a tight and stunning tale of good and evil, with quite a few incidents of bizarre humor and wit. 
If,in Trout Fishing in America, Brautigan was mocking and praising Hemingway in one broad stroke, he is doing the same for Henry James in this novel. 

The presence of the Hawkline Monster, very discreet and hidden at the start, is described in terms that seem to come straight from "The Turn of The Screw." As Greer and Cameron approach the house, Greer sees something in a second-story window. "It floated like a small mirror. Then it was gone. He thought that there was somebody else in the house." ever been. The reader is not allowed to deny the seriousness of intention as is sometimes. the case with Brautigan. In the longest chapter of the book, six pages, there is a detailed outline of the origin of the Hawkline Monster. The Monster, as it turns out, is the result of a strange mutation in the mixing of "The Chemicals": a project begun many years ago by the now-disappeared Professor Hawkline. The good Professor had hoped to gather in a jar hundreds of elements from all over the world, from all periods of history. The expected result was a brighter and more beautiful future for all mankind. 

Something runs amiss, though, and the mutation results in the release of a strange light, accompanied by an even stranger shadow. The light is the evil force, and has the power to change men's thoughts and objects into whatever form amuses him. The shadow must follow, because every light must have a shadow. But this dark brother posesses a spirit of good, and wishes very much to be free of the whole mess. 
As a result of this chapter, Brautigan confronts the reader with the responsibility of grappling with the ambiguous classifications of good and evil as they existed, ingrained in the soul and character of the old American West. 
With what result? This book is going to firmly divide the people who read and think about Brautigan. Both are going to have to come to terms with the fact that he is just a little better than a second-rate writer, but definitely not great. The division will occur between those who say "Well, he's not that good, but I really enjoy sitting down and reading his books," and those who remain loyal to the intellectual traditions. 
The last chapter of the book seems to indicate that Brautigan forsees this division. He details what happens to each of the characters after the incident with the Monster, and what happens to the site of this · tale. He designs for each a fate of unfulfilled potential and disappointments. But for each he also designs a peaceful death. In a way, he is saying that although he will never rank with the immortals, he is at least going to die with some blessed memories. 


reminiscences 
An American probably views English private education as some kind of cross between Charles Dickens and Goodbye Mr. Chips. Professor Ivo Thomas, of the General Program and current director of the Collegiate Seminar is a product of that English system. His reflections on this educational experience furnish us with interesting contrasts to its American counterpart. 
Professor Thomas was born in London, but when he was two years old his family moved to Cirencester, in the west of England. He was sent to Oakley Hall, a private boarding school in Cirencester, at the age of seven. Oakley Hall housed, under one roof, about fifty boys between the ages of seven and fourteen. It was run by a headmaster who lived at the school with his family. The school was run on a trimestral system so that the children had a chance to visit their parents during three vacations each year. 
British children are not divided into classes according to their age, but rather into ''forms'' according to their ability. This allows the child to move through the system at his own pace. Although there were oc­casional problems involving staff members at Oakley Hall Professor Thomas' memories of the "little boys' school" are mostly fond ones. Children had a chance to make friends their own age and receive a sound education as well. 
At the age of fourteen, Dr. Thomas took an exam for placement in a "public school". These schools were only "public" in the sense that they had been established by an act of Parliament. They were actually · private, all-male boarding schools run by a board of governors. Professor Thomas was accepted at Shrewsbury, a public school that dated from Tudor times. One of its more distinguished alumni was Charles Darwin. Shrewsbury had an enrollment of about five hundred students, who were divided into ten houses of fifty students each. During the first two years of study a standard curriculum was followed by all pupils, but in the senior years, the student began to specialize in a given area. Discipline at the public school was handled by senior boys who had been appointed prefects by the headmaster. Professor Thomas became head prefect at Shrewsbury, a position which carried with it 

<Sketch by John Brockhoff.) 
a great deal of responsibility. In 1930 he converted to Roman Catholicism and was encouraged to leave the school. He attended Downside, a Benedictine secondary school, for six months before being accepted at The Queen's College in Oxford. 
The structure of Oxford University is so radically different from its American counterpart as to be almost inexplicable. Professor Thomas summarized the situation this way. Oxford is a federation of independent colleges which grew up around various scholars during the Middle Ages. Unlike Notre Dame's College of Science, or College of Arts and Letters, Oxford colleges are not divided according to fields of study. 
A member of any college can pursue any field of inquiry. An applicant enters the University through acceptance by a par­ticular college. One usually applies to several different colleges, selecting them according to a mixture of tradition and professor at Queen's College who edited the Oxford edition of Homer, and appreciated a good meal. 

The University brewed its own beer iq a thirteenth century brewhouse. A student could purchase it at twelve pennies a pint and either drink it from a silver mug at "The Buttery", a University establishment, 
·or send the manservant to fetch it up to his room. The taverns of Oxford city were off limits to students, however. University proctors patrolled the town with ''bulldogs'' looking for students. These "bulldogs" were surly looking men in derby hats.lf &n Oxfordian was detected by a proctor frequenting a forbidden pub, he might flee, but then the bulldogs would give him chase. Once caught, the errant student was brought before a University Court where his tutor would plead his case. Those found guilty were usually fined. 
. In comparing the situation at Oxford to the one here at Notre Dame, Professor Thomas believes that in Queen's ·college there were more opportunities for students to get to know faculty members well. Since the professors would often keep sets of rooms within the college, the students had many chances to meet with them outside of the formal classroom situation. The student rubbed shoulders with great men. Thomas remembers Professor Sayee, who lived down the hall and who rediscovered the ancient Hittite Empire. He also had an opportunity to meet J .R.R. Tolkien, creator of the Lord of the Rings trilogy. 
Today, enamorized with life in the American Middlewest, Professor Thomas often thinks back upon the silver mugs, wondering if he would want· a child of his own to go through the same system. It is a question he does not answer. 

uncommon glimpses 

accident. Oxford's colleges are royally chartered by the Crown's Privy Council. They are residential colleges, where the student not only attends lectures, but also eats and sleeps. Although the University conducts examinations and grants degrees, all other aspects of the student's education are run by his particular college. 
On acceptance by a college, the student is usually assigned one or two tutors. These tutors supervise the student's readings, suggest lectures for him to attend, and meet with him on a weekly basis to review essays he has written. The first degree one reads for at Oxford is the Bachelor's. It normally takes four years, or twelve eight week sessions, to matriculate. There are two periods of examinations, one after two years, the other before graduation. If he passes these written tests, the student is called back to school during summer break for a "Viva", or public oral examination, which consists of a grilling before a board of University scholars to determine what grade of honors he will receive. 
Professor Thomas, along with about two hundred and fifty other students, lived in Queen's College. He majored in "The Great School" at Oxford, which was centered around classical history and philosophy. His tutor was a Mr. Franks, who sub­sequently became Lord Franks, served as the British ambassador to the United States, the head of one of Britain's largest banks, and who is currently President of an Oxford college. 
Living conditions, Professor Thomas remembers, were much different from those in an average Notre Dame residence hall. Queen's College was divided into staircases, with six rooms to a staircase. The student would have an eighteenth century sitting room, a fireplace and his own bedroom. Professor Thomas had an attic bedroom which he remembers as being rather cold, since ice would sometimes form on the water pitcher over night. Each staircase was assigned a manservant to fetch ale or coal or whatever the young scholars wanted. 
The college dining halls served very good meals at modest prices. One could make arrangements with the dining hall for private dinners with a group of friends, or one could join the 'Eaglets', a gourmet dining society founded by B.W. Allen, a 
-------------~-~-----~­
Four Japanese gunmen end siege 
By SELWA USTAWANI 
DAMASCUS <UPI) -Four Japanese gunmen who wan­dered the skies of the Middle East for 18 hours after ending their five-day siege of the French embassy in Holland landed Wednesday in this Syrian capital and emerged from their borrowed Air France jet to be greeted by Palestinian guerrillas. 
Shortly after the gunmen disembarked, the Japanese Red Army issued a statement calling their · five-<lay seizure of the French embassy in the Hague that ended Tuesday a blow to imperialism. 
Pim Sierks, the Dutch cap­tain of the airliner's volunteer three-man crew, said the four Japanese turned over their two remaining pistols and their $300,000 in ransom money to him before they disembarked. 
"The Japanese were polite to 
us," Sierks said. 
The gunmen had given up their submachine guns and grenades in the Hague but had kept two pistols. Dutch officials "in spite of continuous attempts said this was so they could and maneuvers by the French, "commit suicide if necessary." Dutch, and Japanese im­
Dutch Foreign Minister Max perialists, allies and conspira­van Der Stoel told a news tors with the Zionist enemy, to conference, "The terrorists abort the operation and capture were so mellowed by today that our comrades." Captain Sierks talked them into Thus apparently ended a saga surrendering their pistols and that began Friday when three the ransom money to facilitate of the gunmen seized the permission to land in Damas­French embassy in The Hague cus. and took the ambassador and 
Sierks turned the Boeing 707 10 other people as hostages. jet over to Air France officials. They released their hostages 
"I'm a bit tired and need to Tuesday in exchange for the get to a hotel to have a drink, a fourth man, who had been freed shave and a rest before flying from a Paris prison on their back to Amsterdam," he said. demand and was turned over to 
Diplomatic sources in Damas­them when the hostages were cus predicted that the gunmen freed, plus $300,000 and an Air would give themselves up to the France airliner with a volun­Palestine Liberation Organiza­teer three-man crew. tion who, with the approval of In the Hague, French Ambas­Syria, would fly them to a sador Jacques Senard recount­country of their choice. ed five days during which he 
The Japanese Red Army and his fellow hostages were statement said the gunmen's held at gunpoint 24 hours a day, seizure of the French embassy systematically starved and and taking of 11 hostages prevented from leaving the including the French ambassa­ambassador's office even to use dor was a successful ooeration the toilet. 
Anti -abortion legislation 
pro~noted 
by Bob Mader Staff Reporter 
Dr. Charles Rice of the Notre Dame Law School and Mrs. Virginia Black, Republican can­didate for the U. S. House of Representatives, spoke in favor of anti-abortion legislation before the meeting of the ND-SMC Committee in Defense of Life at the Library Auditoruim last night. 
Mrs. Black, chairman of the theology department at Marion High School, said that she decided to run aginnst incumbent John Brademas just two days before the registration deadline last spring. She commented her decision to run was influenced by pro-life
•I literature. 
I 
•
Although she was told at the' I Republican Candidates Con­
l 
ference in Washington that the
l 
abortion controversy was a "no­
l 
win issue", she feels that members 
l 
of Congress would "go down like dominoes" in Washington in favor 
•l of anti-abortion legislation if she 
~ could beat the heavily favored incumbent.
•l 
• Mrs. Black concluded her talk by 
~ 
saying that every unborn child
l 
could have great potential. "We may have already thrown the
• 
person who could have come up
• 
with a cure for cancer in a garbage
•
~ pail," she said. 
•l 
• 
Brademas' record of voting

• 
against anti-abortion legislation . •


• 
Rice stated that the chances oft passing a constitutional amend­ment to overturn the Supreme 
i ~ 
Erratum 
The planned blood drive is not being run by the Volunteer Ser­vices Organization as was erroneously reported in yester­day's Observer. Volunteer Ser­vices is assisting the Notre Dame­St. Mary's Blood Counc!l directed by Robin Heisler and John Famula. 
l 



by Rice. Black 
Court decision of 1973 legalizing Upjohn Laboratories, known as abortion are improving. He Prostin F2 Alpha, which can in­commented that a pro-life duce an abortion at any time from amendment sponsored by Senator the moment of conception up until 
Bartlett was passed in the Senate the sixth month of pregnancy.Tuesday after a move by pro­
Rice stated that abortion isabortion forces to table the 

The airliner, crewed by two landing at Aden. It then flew Dutch pilots and a British flight back to Damascus. engineer, had made a refueling While it was in the Cairo­stop earlier in the day at Aden, Damascus area, security forces capital of Southern Yemen. A in nearby Israel went on full Tokyo radio station reported alert. Japanese Red Army they were not allowed to guerrillas killed 25 people at disembark there. Israel's Lod airport two years 
When the airliner took off ago and three of their own from Holland's Schiphol airport number were killed. The sole Tuesday night it headed for survivor is serving a life prison Syria but skirted Damascus term in Israel. and flew on toward Cairo. Lebanese officials blocked Avoiding the Egyptian capital, airport runways to prevent the it flew across the Sudan before plane from landing in Beirut. 
Bars across border Jnaintain status quo 
by Bill Brink previous years during the first 
Senior Night Editor several weeks of school. Managers
and of Shulas, Jay's Lounge and the 

Greg Bangs Heidelberg Inn reported a 
Staff Reporter decrease in overall business the 
last several weeks, which they

Recent Indiana legislation attributed to a customary Sep­concerning alcohol may have tember dropoff.caused a change in Notre Dame "I've noticed some new students, students' social activity, but not a but not as many as last year," said mass exodus across the state line Paul Schmidt, manager of The 
to Michigan. Managers of several Heidelberg Inn. "In fact," he Michigan bars stated that there continued, "total business has had been no noticeable increase in gone down quite a bit. I think it's 
Notre Dame clientele. going to go up, at least I hope it's Managers of four popular bars in going to go up."Niles, Michigan commented that Dave Griffee Jr., a manager at the new alcohol rule, do not appear Jay's Lounge, said that business 
to have benefited their business. has been pretty slow the last Leo 'Butch" Kubiak, owner and couple of weeks. He admitted that manager of Kubiak's Stateline most of his weekend clientele Bar, noted that student attendence consists of Notre Dame students, has not varied appreciably from but added, "It would be hard to tell 
amendment had been defeated. whether there have been any more The amendment, which would Notre Dame students here recently deny HEW funds for abortions, will because there are so many here now be sent to the House. anyway." 
AI Singleton, manager of Shula's 
Bar in Niles also reported slowerThere are two major types of business in early September. "Butanti-abortion legislation, ac­that is the usual trend," he added. 

cording to Rice. The first type of He said his weekend business hasamendment, which is favored by been average the last severalPresident Ford, is the States' weeks.
Rights amendment, which would Singleton can't tell yet if thereleave the matter up to the in­are more Notre Dame students atdividual states. Rice claimed this his bar, hoped that the numberidea ineffective since it would would increase in the comingleave the Supreme Court's 1973 weeks.
decision standing as a precedent. 
Kubiak reported a flourishingIt may also violate some state weekend business, as per usual,constitutions to enact anti-abortion except for a slight dropoff on thelegislation. He also termed it the last two Sunday nights. He also

Keefe Montgomery and Theresa Bush gave a presentation last
"legitimization of elective mur­cannot detect any notable increase 
night to the Nd-SMC Committee In Defense of Life. 
der." 
never necessary to save the life of 
The second type of legislation 

the mother, since the removal of
Rice cited is prohibitory. He said 
the fetus from a cancerous uterus
there are currently three major 
or from a pregnancy occurring in 
bills of this type in Congress, two of 
the fallopian tubes has never
which extend protection to the 
legally been considered an
unborn at the moment of con­
abortion.
ception. 
Rice blasted doctors who per­form abortions and Nelson Rice stressed enactment of the Rockefeller, stating that the Vice­second type of legislation. He is President designate vetoed the 
in Notre Dame students. "Ninety-nine per cent of myBaby Week. 

weekend clientele are Notre Dame "The only way we can lose this students anyway. I don't go outthing is to compromise it and and count the number of people inwater it down," he concluded. 

the waiting line," Kubiak said.

The talks by Dr. Rice and Mrs. 
"If there's been a crackdown onBlack were preceded by a slide the Notre Dame campus I reallypresentation concerning stages of haven't noticed the effects of it,"fetal development and abortion Kubiak added,' "but I'd gladlytechniques, presented by Keefe welcome an increase of students if Montgomery of Notre Dame and it would help my business."

Theresa Bush of St. Mary's. 

Dr. Rice began his talk by •••••­
• criticizing Congressman John 



the obJerver 
9 

Former ambassador discloses 
US offered to underwrite Chilean bonds 
By ADOLFO G. MERINO said the United States refused a acknowledged CIA activity in Kennecott. "high-level fund raisers" of all reguest from Allende for a $1 Chile, has called top congres­three candidates. He said WASHINGTON (UPI) -The mfllion contribution to his 1970 sional leaders to the White "To reach an accommoda­Allende's fund-raiser asked for 
Nixon administration offered presidential campaign. House Thursday to discuss tion," he said, "the U.S. offered $1 million. 
whether such covert operations Allende a deal which could only
Chile "an incredibly generous Korry made the statement at 
should be abolished. be described as the most
economic package" in 1970 to an Aug. 15 seminar at "The U.S. government made 
Georgetown University. UPI Korry indicated that Allende, incredibly generous package we
enable the former goverment of no contributions to any of the Marxist President Salvador obtained a copy of the who was killed in a military have ever offered any govern­candidates," he said. "This was Allende to compensate three statement in the wake of a coup last year, received the ment in an economic relation­a departure from the policy of 
offer from the United States in ship."
nationalized U.S.-based firms, it disclosure that the CIA had the Kennedy and Johnson 
was learned Wednesday. been secretly funded to "de­early 1971 after his government administrations which, during The U.S. offer was disclosed stabilize" the Allende govern­had nationalized the Chilean He said Washington proposed the campaign for the 1964 by Edward Korry, former U.S. ment. operations of three U.S.-based to underwrite Chilean bonds Chilean election, provided con­
firms, ITT and two copper with "the full faith and credit
ambassador to Chile, who said siderable support for the 
companies -Anaconda and of the American Treasury, if
Allende rejected it. Korry also President Ford, who Monday election of President (Eduardo)
the Allende regime would Frei." negotiate a settlement with ITT 








Siamese twins separated 
PHILADELPHIA <UPI>--A relatively rare operation to separate Simese twins was completed in about eight hours by a team of 23 doctors and nurses at Children's Hospital Wednesday. 
Dr. C. Everett Koop, the hospital's surgeon-in-chief and head of the operating team, said the prognosis for 13-month-<>ld Clara and Alta Rodriguez of the Dominican Republci was "ex­cellent." 
The twins, wlio were joined at the middle and lower trunk in a sitting position facing one another, entered surgery about 8 a.m. and were separated about four and a half later. Additional surgery carried into the late afternoon. 
They have two hearts and four kidneys linked to each other's bladders and shared an intestinal tract and rectum. The blood supply oof one child also criss­crossed into the other. 
The surgeons gave the existing intestinal tract and rectum to Alta and were devising artificial in­testines and a rectum for Clara. 
Dr. Koop, who successfully performed a similar separation 18 years ago, said one of the major problems was that, because the children were connected in the pelvic region, their pelvises were shaped like a "C" instead of the normal "0" configuration. 
"They will have problems learning to walk," Koop said. "If they had been only three months old, we could have brought the pelvic girdles together easier." 
Other possible problems he forsees are disruption of large, 
British slate new elections 
By JOSEPH W. GRIGG 
LONDON (UPI) -Prime Minister Harold Wilson Wed­nedsay ordered a new parlia­mentary general election Oct. 10 to seek a new five-year mandate to deal with what ne called Britain's gravest crisis since World War II. 
"The economic crisis is the gravest since the war," Wilson said in a television and radio broadcast. address to the nation. 
"We have to meet this in a mood of determination, not of pessimism or writing Britain down." 
It will be the second time Britain has voted this year ­"something few people would want to see," Wilson said. 
But he said it was made "inevitable" by the political
.deadlock resulting from the last 
:I . I I 
surgical wounds at the points of separation and elevation of the diaphragms, "which could result in respiratory complications." 
The infants will be kept in respirators for at least a day and are expected to heal in two to three weeks. Clara will have to undergo another operation to correct her misshapen pelvis. 
Of six previous known attempts to separate similarly conjoinPrl twins, three have been successfr 
lo"Wa University profits on cadavers 
DES MOINES, Iowa <UPI>-­Iowa funeral directors Wednesday reacted strongly to the University of Iowa's practice of "trafficking" in cadavers donated for medical research. 
An audit released by state Auditor Lloyd Smith revealed that the university's Department of Anatomy has used tax money to obtain and process cadavers, but has then turned around and sold them to other institutions and sidetracked the payments into another fund. 
Smith said the department has ''bypassed the usual purchasing and accounting procedures and the practice may have been going on for years." 
Also, in a special statement by the Iowa Funeral Directors and Embalmers Association, the group-s president, Robert Morton of Rockwell City, said the family 
general election Feb. 28. 
The deadlock has tied Wil­son's hands for the past six months. He said a new five­year mandate is essential to give his governme~t powers to fight the crisis. 
"The fight must be led by a government determined to con­quer inflation and utterly firm in its resolve not to resort to unemployment to solve these problems,'' he said. 
Bus Trip to f\brthwestern  
Sponsored by  Keenan  Hall  
Package  Includes:  
Ticket  
Bus  Trip  
Keg  0  n  Each  Bus  

T0 t a 1 C 0 s t 0 n 1y $ 1 5 • 0 0 C a II Gary 3 4 0 4 
......................................................'ii'••••••..••,~., . . ... ... . 
_.._...~~iooio!o...........__....__
• 
t 

The latest was performed in Helsinki, Finland, three months ago. 
One of the twins separated by Dr. Koop in his first such operation in 1956 remains alive today. The other died nine years afLr the operation during open-heart surgery. 
Children's Hospital said neither it nor the doctors were charging for their services in the Rodriguezoperation. 
Conservative party leader Edward Heath said "I welcome this announcement unreserved­ly. It will enable the British people to elect a government with the authority and a majority that will enable it to govern with the support of the people." 
Liberal party leader Jeremy Thorpe said he hoped the campaign would be fought "on issues rather than per­sonalities." 
should be informed if the bodies they donate are going to be tran­sferred to another institution. 
He said, "No one should profit financially by the sale of donated bodies, which could lead to a trafficking of dead bodies andn­parts." 
The audit covering fiscal years 1972 and 1973 indicated that the department had received about $24,000 for the sale of cadavers and cadaver parts, with the money deposited in a separate deeded Bodies Programs Account held by the university. 
Smith point out that Iowa law prohibits sale or transfer of bodies used for medical purposes to any institutions out of the state. Violation of the law carries a one­year jail sentence, but Smith said there has been "no discussion" of whether there will be prosecution of the case. 
and the two copper com­panies." 
Korry said Allende rejected the offer "for ideological reasons," fearing that he would have lost support for his Marxist-Socialist government by accepting help from the United States. 
Allende felt, Korry said, "that if he accepted the deal ­and he told me this himself ­there would be no 'Chilean revolution'." 
Korry said that during the the 1970 Chilean presidential elections, the U.S. embassy was approached for contributions to 
CALL THE RIGHT PLAY EVERY TIME IT COMES TO EATING OUT 
JuurtRestaurant 
and GARDEN PATIO 
512 S. Spring St. Mishawaka Ph. 255-0518 
You can score hiK with home made Italian foods: Steaks, Chops, Chicken Before or after the xame. 
... or anytime you're 11111/KJ:l' 
[t\ INI~ff¥N-l~Wil~ ~j##### 
~ IS IVDVIrG! , AND "*-'VE GOT REDUCTI0\6 UP TO SO% 
Sheet Music Acoustic instruments Electric Guitars Amplifiers 

713 lVkKIHI.Y 259-1573 
SENIOR TRIP PEOPLE:. 
Your $180 balance is due no later 
than this Friday, Sept. 20. ·you will forfeit your deposit if the money isn't paid by this Friday. You can send the money to 
Senior Oass of J975 Box JJ4 

Notre Dame or bring it to us from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. every day this week in the Nbrrissey Loan Fund (LaFortunets basement). Please bring or send to us the hotel room fam. 
Questions may be referred to: 
Greg Ericksen 283-3687 Bob SPann 2 3 3-6 2 4 7 C h r is F e n n 2 8 3 -6 4 8 7 Joe H e n de rIo n g 234-1 6 7 3 
~ •' :': .• ,'' .. : \.-' \
"""""""'".,;;,;,---------.;...,,;,;._.;__....J 
Korry said the United States had infiltrated the leadership of Chile's Communist and Socialist parties. "We knew exactly what their intentions were toward 
U.S. investments when they came to power ... but we were prepared to bend backwards to try to reach some kind of agreement with Allende," he said. 
"We first made every effort to work out an accommodation with the Allende government. But we also were prepared to take defensive measures to isolate the regime if Chile assumed a hostile policy towards the United States." 
Th~rsday, ~ptember 19, 1974








Charleston books cause unrest 
By MANNIX PORTERFIELD boy's thoughts on suicide. When the protest crusade ridicule out religious beliefs." for a new wage contract. CHARLESTON, W. Va. (UPI) showed signs of sagging, the By the end of the first week Not all clergymen and not all
Parents feel other passages

-"Edith is the 'saved' broad miners shored it up. of the boycott, the protest had parents sided with dissidents.
instill contempt for American
who can't marry out of her In the center of the turmoil escalated from minor pranks to Rev. James Lewis, one of 10
leaders and encourage the use
religion ... or do anything else was Indiana-born Kenneth Un­shootings incidents and bea­Episcopal clergymen who pub­
of marijuana.
out of her religion for that derwood, the county schools tings. Philip Cochran, 30, a licly deplored the violence, matter, especially what I Parental unrest, however, superintendent. United Parcel Service truck chided Gov. Moore for his wanted her to do. runs deeper than the pages of driver who was not involved in initial reluctance to beef up
"It's like a nightmare," he
"A bogue religion, man! the texts. the protest, was wounded sheriff patrols with state 
told UPI. "I wonder, when
"So dig, for the last couple seriously at Rand, near Char­troopers.
Beneath the protest beats people tell me to burn books,
weeks, I been quoting the Good leston, by a protester shooting Lewis said he read some of 
another and louder drum -one whether we live in Nazi at random. A picket received the books and saw nothingBook and all that stuff to her, 
telling her I am now saved that fundamentalist Christians Germany. But I have faith in superficial wounds when shot objectionable, but rather found myself, you dig." have been sounding in the hills the democratic process. It will by a janitor whose path to work the material "conducive to the When Charleston school bells and hollows since their ances­work out." was blocked by demonstrators. kind of freedom our country 
tors arrived on the Atlantic Despite the cross-fire of Underwood and Horan then was based on."
rang this month, such passages Coast to escape religious criticism from parents as well "The material opens up all
from a new series of textbooks announced that they had 
persecution. as teachers, Underwood said he
set off a controversy that reached a compromise in which kinds of human concern and 
at no time thought of abandon­
spread from this capitol city to the board agreed to a 30-day godly concern," he said.
Fearing a new surge of 

ing the post he has held here
the nearby coal camps and moratorium on the books. "There is a lot of potential in
religious intolerance, the funda­
farmlands of Appalachia. three years. Horan's followers, however, it."
mentalists thus have engaged refused to bend, and the During the third week of theThe furor generated closed in another confrontation -But at one -point, fearing a minister backed out of the controversy, nearly 1,000 pa­schools and mines and inspired another clash between Chris­new outbreak of violence, agreement, He said the board rents, waving American flags,shootings, beatings and other tians who believe the Bible in Underwood closed all county would not put its promise in demonstrated on the Capitolviolence. its entirety as the literal truth schools for two days. He writing. lawn and shouted down the 30­Hundreds of outraged parents of God, and those inclined to a reopened them after Gov. Arch Two days later, the board day moratorium. They demand­poured into the streets, chant­liberal interpretation of the Moore agreed to use 200 more
ing "burn the_ books." B~ok consented to a signed offer, and ed books be stricken on a
scriptures. state troopers in roving patrols
advocates withm the education 
to guard bus garages and 
system saw shades of fascism, Such forces have collided 
school property.
not unlike the fever that swept before in West Virginia. They 
Supporters of the books view
through Nazi Germany. fought in the 1950s when 
them as harmless, they defend
The school superintendent fundamentalist preachers suc­
the off-color language and
moved his family into hiding, cessfully waged war on liquor­
passages from revolutionaries
fearful of the anonymous death by-the-drink and again during 
as chronicles of contemporary
threats he received. Police the next decade over Sunday 
America.
forces were strained beyond closing laws. 
Disgruntled parents view
their capacity, dashing from The textbook row began 
things differently.
one hot silot to another to quell weeks before schools opened 
"Anti-Christian, un-Americ­
disturbances. Sept. 3. 
an, filthy and rotten," declared
"It's mob rule," one official 
Parents organized a boycott protest leaders, such as Rev.
said at the height of the 
against a store where one of Marvin Horan. 
protest. 
the school board members who Horan like his followers, has
Kanawha County School 
supported the texts had connec­voiced strong opposition to
Board member Alice Moore, a 
tions. When that failed to bring texts such as "Man, ""lnforma­
minister's wife, was the first to 
a reversal of the board's 3-2 .tive Articles, ""The Dynamics
say the books, for all grades 
decision to adopt the books, of Language," and a children's
from kindergarten through sen­
parents elected to keep their series entitled "Communicat­
ior high school in Language 
children home, fearing they ing." .·:
Arts classes, were unfit. for 
would be exposed to antibiblical "Our children will not study
classrooms. They qmckly 
and un-American teachings. textbooks that undermine the
became the reading material 
respect of duly authorized 
most in demand. Many parents 
Fundamentalist preachers led authority, call our policemen
became incensed by what they the protest. On the first day of pigs, or urge the violentfound. school, nearly one-fourth of the overthrow of our government."A poem in one text reads: students stayed home. 
An angry parent shouted at a
"Probably you were a bas­Armed with picket signs, rally.tard parents roamed the county in "Our children will not read"Dreaming of running men search of support. They found it textbooks that in any mannerdown in a Cadillac, 
at coal mines and some profane the name of God and 
BETHEL COLLEGE LECTURE SERIES PRESENTS 
BART STARR 

GREEN BAY PACKERS SPEAKING ON SPORTS 
TUESDAY OCTOBER 1 8:00P.M 
$3.00 ADULTS BETHEL COLLEGE GOODMAN AUDITORIUM 10111 W. McKINLEY , MISHAWAKA (ACROSS FROMTOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER) FOR INFORMATION, CALL 259-8511
"And tearing blouses off women ... " 
One book compares Daniel and the lion's den from the Bible with a fable. Another likens the Genesis account of creation to a myth. Another tale is concerned with a young industrial plants. Public buses became targets of pickets and 11,000 daily commuters we e deprived of transportation. 
Thousands of miners, tradi­tionally reluctant to step across picket lines, refused to work. 

Horan relented. 
Miners who struck in at least four counties, came under fire from the United Mine Workers (UMW), and Bituminous Coal Operators Association alike. 
UMW leaders tried to steer embittered miners out of the protest, but the cry heard from the coalfields was : "We're parents first, and miners second." 
Industry leaders said the book dispute was being used a ploy by miners to stage strikes at a time when the UMW was bargaining with coal producers permanent basis, without bene­fit of a review. 
Two parents decided to set wheels in motion for a legal settlement and filed suit in U. 
S. District Court. 
Gary D. Williams Sr. and his wife, who have two children in school, said they filed the suit because the books abused the "constitutional rights of free­dom of religion." 
"We feel that the textbooks will teach our children anti­Christian doctrine contrary to our belief and our rights as parents," he said. 



CLEARANCE! ! 
ON SUMMER QOTHING 
*TOPS *BLOUSES *HALTERS *BIKINIS *LONG DRESSES 


ALL 50% OFF!! 

I 



•. 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery 
LONDON. PARIS. ANTWERP, ROTTERDAM, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, TORONTO. MONTREAL. VANCOUVER. NEW YORK. BOSTON. MIAMI. PHILIDELPHIA. CHICAGO. DETROIT. PITTSBURGH. HOUSTON. DALLAS, PH ENIX SAN FRANCISCO. SEATTLE. LOS ANGELES 
~-------------------------------------~ -----------­
.. 

Thursday, September 19,' 1974 
the ob~erv~~ 1 1 

In Vietnam 
•


Peacekeeping operations lD jeopardy 
the debt-ridden international truce Wednesday to cut off vital supplies by Nguyen Anh Tuyent 
team to halt peacekeeping to the International Commission of 
SAIGON (UPI) -American 
operations in South Vietname. Control and Supervision unless the creditors are threatening to force Two U.S. contractors vowed four-nation peace group pays its bills. The firms-Air America and Pacific Architects and
Dean Rusk cidvocates 
Engineers-have provided food, transportation, security and d • fmaintenance for the ICCS

nuc1ear lSarmamen 
missionover.the past 20 month~. 
by John F. Barton 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -For­mer Secretary of State Dean Rusk says the United States and Soviet Union should get rid of virtually all their nuclear weapons. 
Past U.S.-Soviet agreements to stem the nuclear arms race have been "somewhat like building a dam one eighth of the way across a 
river." Rusk, who served under presidents Kennedy and Johnson, told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Wednesday. 
Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger was to testify today in the committee's hearings on detente policy. 
"I would support going back to zero nuclear weapons," Rusk said. For a start, he urged that all missiles with a range of less than 1,800 miles be eliminated and those with ranges of more than 1,800 miles be limited to 500 in each side. 
"I have just about reached the 
conclusion that, if real progress is 
to be made, the appraoch must be 
wholesale rather than retail and 
future 
19 Ballpoint 20 Plant called "live-forever" 22 Members of a brotherhood 
23 Bicycle part 
25 Important name in medicine 
28 Hard -(dit'ec­tions to helms­man) 
29 Overturn 
34 Breed of horse 
35 Bird's home 
36 "-call you 
sweetheart .••" 37 Kind of partner or butler 39 Residential sec­tion of L. A. 40 Blow towards shore 
41 Match 44 Rembrandts for example 
must involve dramatic sim­plicity," he said. 
Rusk, who currently teaches political science at the University of Georgia, said he was interested in limiting arms races in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and between India and Pakistan. 
"I have been disappointed that more has not been achieved, but I suppose we will have to admit that lesser arms races also have their complications," he said. 
Rusk opposed granting the Soviet Union special trade terms. 
"I see no particular reason why we should subsidize the Soviet economy with long range credits at concessional interest rates which would not represent a flow of good s and services to us in exchange for waht we send to them,"he said. 
Rusk said he was sympathtic to the plight of Soviet Jews desiring to emigrate to Israel, but added: "I doubt that we could have em­barked upon the road of detente if we had qualified that effort by linking it with changes in the political economic and social structures of other nations." 

BAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. '74 Gen'l Features Corp. ACROSS 45 Exhilarate 14 Votes for 1 Result of a flood 46 Eye: Ger. 21 Decorates a cake 8 Musical refrain 47 Juniper 23 Amen 15 TV aerial 48 Orchestral 24 Bullrush 15 Fled composition 25 Billiard stroke 17 Dwarfed 51 Singer Sayao 26 Arabian gazelle 18 Set aside for the 55 Swimmer's mo-27 Crimean city 
tion 30 Spanish ball 56 Male swan game 59 In music,tenderly31 Way up 61 North Carolina 32 Rousseau hero 
island 33 Succinct 63 Crusader's foe 38 Compass pts. 64 Great land mass 39 Escape 65 Board a jet 41 First in~tallment 66 Obstructed, on 42 Hungarian 
the green violinist (1845­DOWN 1930)
43 Overlooks 1 Stinging insect 49 City in the Ruhr 2 Before: Lat. 50 Lachrymose 3 Daze 51 Foundation 4 Barnyard 52 Muslim leader 
denizen 53 Dutch hamlet 5 Successful 54 River of 64 6 Not wandering Across 7 Immature frog 56 "-Fan Tutte" 8 Small ornament 57 Dust bowl 9 Hindu queen refugee 
10 Reply: Abbr. 58 Part of a rosary
11 Tardy12 Military acronym60 Wood sorrel 13 Frolic 62 Bus. gp. 
"We have mformed the ICCS m early August, and very recently, that we need payment if we are to continue to support their ac­tivities," a PA&E spokesmen said. 
He said P A&E and Air America "are in the process of withdrawing that support becausee it has become apparent that the ICCS is without operating funds." 
PA&E threatened to phase out 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Needed: 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Call Marianne 5247. 
Need 1 student or GA ticket for Purdue Desperately. Will Pay$. Paul 3718. 
Need 1 Purdue ticket. Craig, 233· 1899 
Need 3 G.A. tix to Rice. call Fred 232-4494. 
Desperately need two tlx for Purdue. Call Trace. 234-1889 
Need 2 GA tix for Purdue call Bob 234-1889. 
Top Dollar Paid for fo\Jr GA Rice tix. Dave 6818. 
~d 3 GA Miami tix call Mark 8420c 
Need 1 Rice ticket. Will pay$. Call Scott. 1205. 
Wanted 2 GA tix for Pitt game. 283-3019, Bob 
Desperately need Purdue tix GA& or student call Joe 3663 
Need 4 to 6GA tix for Pitt or Miami 288-2613. 
wanted: 2 GA tix for Purdue. call Larry 288·7375. 
Need 2 Purdue Tickets call Pam. 5185. 
Need 2 student tix for Northwestern game. call 7659. 
Need: 2 GA tix for Purdue. call 233-5925. 
Need one ticket for Northwestern John 3540 after 9. 
Need 2 GA Purdue Tix. Call Jerry 8922. 
Wanted: 1 GA or student ticket for Purdue. Call Mike 1049. 
Help wanted. Construction laborers. 2.50 hr. min. 8-5 Mon­Sat. Part time or f!llltime. · Apply in person. Fat Wally's Electric Beer Joint 2046 S. Bend Ave. 
Desperately need 4 GA tix for Miami. Call Rich 6981. 
Need 6 GA Purdue Tix will pay $. Call Mr. Heekin 277-oo67. 
Wanted: Ride to NO from Con­necticut during Oct. break. Will share expenses. Jim 1045. 
Wanted 2 GA Purdue tix. Call Roger 1055. 
Need 2 ·GA Purdue Tix call Bill 8687. 
all services by the end of this month. "What the effects will be, we are unable to judge, but we understnad the ICCS has other alternatives," the firm said. 
The truce team, made up of delegates from Iran, Indonesia, Hungary and Poland, piled up debts of about $6 million in the fiscal year ending last April 1. 
The 1973 truce accord calls for the signatories-the United States, South Vietname, North Vietnam and Viet Cong-to pay 23.5 per cent of each of the peacekeeping budget. The truce nations pay the rest. 
The United States, however, is the only signer to pay its share of the new $24.5 million budget. South Vietnam has agreed but has yet to pay. North Vietnam and the Viet Cong have refused. 
In moves to cut back expenses, the truce team has grounded two thirds of its 20 helicopters and hasmade plans to move some regional units to Saigon, ICCS sources siad. 
Air America and PA&E are supposed to receive at least $16.5 million out of the truce team's $24.5 million budget. 
Air America, a commercial airline frequently used by the CIA in the Indochina conflict, has been providing air .transportation for ICCS delegates. 
PA&E, which did construction work for the U.S. armed forces during the Indochina war, has been in charge of housing, security and food for the 26 regional truce teams. 

NOTICES 
ND-SMC Council for the retarded volunteers Farm Trip this Sat. 9 am-3pm more in·fo call Keven 289· 3408. 
Help wanted. 2 waiters-must be 
21, Football weekends. Sweeneys Shamrock 233·4703. 
lf You have love to give and need extra money-S. Bend Nursery Home has openings for part time aides and orderlies 11:00 pm to 
7:30 am three nights per week. 232-4483 for interview or stop at S. Bend Nursery Home, 328 Notre Dame. 
Sun Flower Music Shop. We buy old guitars, banjos, mandolins, also do custom building and repair. 24 per cent off on strings capos, etc. Visit us at 632 N. Portage South Bend phone 288­5485. 
Two-Family Garage Sale. Sept 20, 21,22 Fri 1 pm to ·? , Sat 10.?, Sun 10-?. Electric range, elec. sweeprs, regular tires, snowtires, old trunks, packing and steamer, elec appliances, trash cans, 26" boys bike, hames, men women and children's clothing. Misc. items . 1941 Wedgewood Dr. and 19193 Wedwood Dr. 
Stanfords Trip to NorthWestern will leave the parking lot behind Stanford at 9 am. Ticket distribution will begin at 8:30. 
Sha Na Na tickets now available at the student Union ticket office, 2nd floor LaFortune, Hourse this semester will be from 12:15to5:00 MWF and 11:00 to 1:00 and 2:30 to 
5:00 TT. 
Talisman now available for dances, concerts, parties, and pre­game performances. For in. formation call 272-9895. 
lnPIRG Town Meeting, Thurs. Sept 19 u pm in LaFortune. Find out what you can do! 
lnPl RG office hours: 3 pm, Student Govt offices 2 nd floor LaFortune. phone 7668 or 6413 ext. 
6. 
EUPHORIA (records and tapes) is back cheap. We beat all South Bend prices. Special for DEAD FREAKS. .Dead album, ridiculously cheap until Thurs. We deliver to N.D. students call 234· 6535. 
Money? Morrissey Loand Fund can tend you up to $150, Basement of LaFortune. Daily, 1115-12:15' 
Interested in joining a poker club? call Ed 272·3709. 
24 Hour TV service 7 days a w~ek. Sundays and Holidays. Color TV $60.00 and up stereos $50.00 and up. 
Western Electronics 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955. 
Now at Jennifer's--119 Colfax shirts for men-$9-$17 India im­ports. 
FOR RENT 
1 or 2 singles off campus 1021 Demaude Ave. $55.00 per month total. 1 block from grocery laundry bakery. call 232·2773. 
PERSONALS 
Nuclear Physicist will destroy other Physicists attempting to make A-Bombs. 
Attention Mafia Terrorist Groups. Need C1·238 for A-Bomb con­struction? Call Steiner Mining Inc. 
High qualify ore reasonable rate. 1781. 
2nd floor BP: Don't forget to cast your vote for "Lust of the Month" by 4 p.m. today. 
Untimely riped from the womb l,m cold as a foot. Help. Boom Boom Cannon 
To Spunky, Goober, Beer-can, 
D.B. May your debits equal your credits this evening. Happy bir­thday, wonderland zoo. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: 2 Presley Bleacher Seats. Best offer 277-0014 after 7 p.m. 
For sale: Electrovoic 18 speakers 3-way, 12 inch woofer, 5 inch midrange, 120 degrees. High frequency dispersion. $225 pr. call 277-0151. 
1968 GTO good condition asking $1900 call Bill 289-9576. 
For Sale: Super Twin Portable Speed Queen washer. Avogado Green Used 8 times. $90.00 Call 272-8695 or 233­4843 after 5 p.m. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost .: Schwinn 10 speed reward if found. Call 1694. 
Lost : Letronlx calculator In O,Shag. Room 116. Reward of. fered. Call 3698 after 10 p.m.Kevin. 
Lost: Ladles Gold Bracelet Watch. Somewhere between Farley and Sorln Sunday night. Call Betsy 6847. 
Lost: Pair of brown glallll somewhere between Turtle CrHk and Marquette. phone 277~. 
Lost: Virginity at Campus view. lf found call aah-choo. sorry its my allergy 
Lost Silver woman's wristwatch saturday night in the vicinity of flanner hall reward call 4238. 
Lost: NO Class ring Gold with insignia D.J.B. Call Dennis 282­1791. 
I 


12_ 6Q Clflli8 wow____T_h_ursday, September 19, 1974 
Marx forfeits Falcons for future 
by Pete McHugh during my last two college games, people started saying I had bad ones." 
"My ambition right now is to get Atlanta currently holds the by my first year of law school. It's rights to the 24-year old native of very taxing on one's nerves and Redford, Michigan, but numerous patience. Everyone's very teams have contacted him on his talented and if you don't give one availability. "When someone hundred per cent, you won't make leaves camp, he's usually put on it." waivers. I wasn't. Atlanta has a 
Sound familiar? Your typical few players on their defensive line case-ridden law student? Right? over 30, and maybe they're Well, not exactly, Gregory Alan thinking about the future. I don't Marx is by no means typical. know if I'll be in Atlanta next 
To begin with he stands 6'5" and year," he said. weighs about 265 pounds. Two While his future home in years ago, he was a unanimous professional football is uncertain, all-American selection as Marx is well aware of the com-co-·captain of the Notre Dame 
petition in store for him nextfootball team. In both 1971 and season. He stated, "No doubt1972 he was elected to the about it, the pro game ic: • toughprestigious Academic all­physically on the athlete. With 260American teams. Any only one lb. guards and tackles from 280 toyear ago, he was facing the likes of 300 lbs., something's got to give.''

O.J. Simpson, Larry Csonka, and He emphasized how the basics cifLarry Brown as a tackle for the football are assumed in the proAtlanta Falcons. 
game. "A lot of the teachingSo what's Greg Marx, all­

employed by colleges is out.
American football player doing You're treated like a professional.
giving up a promising pro career You're told what to do, and if youfor the pains of law school? 
don't do it, they get someone else"Actually, I didn't really quit pro who will." His overview of the pro 
football. I just temporarily G~eg Marx displayed his defensive prowess two years ago, pursuing quarterback Bill Daniels ot
game is also quite simple: "The
postponed it for a year," said Pittsburgh. Marx has retired "temporarily" from the Atlanta Falcons to pursue the study of law at
quick become quicker and the big
Marx. "I definitely plan on Notre Dame.
become bigger and all of them are
playing for someone next season." year~ut, he's still trying to make His sentiments toward Notre so torn down by accidents,
lucky.''
He explained, "It was a the team. And I think most of the Dame are to say the least, sub-suspensions, and injuries as this culmination of reasons: foremost, Over the summer, Marx par­Players follow after a Nobis." jective, "As long as Notre Dame Notre Dame team. However even the surgery <shoulder) and of ticipated in the NFL Players strike Marx started three years for the continues the traditional spirit and with all the injuries, 'their course the chance to go to law supporting the union along with Irish under the tutelage of line enthusiasm they've alsways had, tremendous depth has made up for school. With the phasing out of most of the Falcon veterans. "I coach Joe Yonto. He played they'll always be number one with the losses. I still think they can be many off-season law programs, I thought the demands were just, but alongside all-Americans Mike me." the national champs" So who's felt I couldn't delay law school, but we knew what we were asking for Kadish and Walt Patulski, both As to this year's football team going to argue with a 265 pound law I could delay football." wasn't what we expected to get. with Buffalo in the NFL. he stated, "I've never seen a tea~ student. 
un­As it turned out, both sides wereThe former Irish tackle 
after a victory and not a com­&b J(issel=====================================================================================================================================~=====================================================================================:
derwent successful shoulder promise."
surgery last February spending three weeks in post-operative Marx believes most of the treatment. The operation avoided players repsect the game with the numerous feared complications major emphasis being on winning 
That mysterious sport
and he has completely recovered not money. He cited Atlanta's all­from the surgery. pro linebacker Tommy Nobis, Marx's supposedly suspect "Tommy Nobis is still trying to knees did not affect his per­make the football team. He's done 
·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~:~:~:~:~:~
formance last year. "I guess everything, won every kind of award in the game. But year-in Rugby. That mysterious club sport played west coast trip in the spring.
because my knees were hurting me 
somewhere behind Stepan Center. What is rugby and The Irish rugby club is run by a seven man council who plays and most importantly, why rugby? elected at the start of spring and fall season by their At first glance rugby and football may seem to have teammates. The various officers of the council 
organize fund-raising, scheduling and the postgame superficial, contact and a similar shaped ball. Rugby parties. The captain, elected for both seasons, runs The Notre Dame cheerleaders A senior bar night is planned t has no downs, no regrouping after offensive rushes, practice and is more a coordinator than a captain­are organizing a number of fund for sometime this fall. Beer will be and no timeouts. Offensive rushes continue until the leader type. raising projects to finance their donated by local distributors. ball goes out of bounds or a penalty is called. Should The general philosophy behind the success of the travel expenses involved in sup­Festivities will include raffling off the ball beco.me trapped under a pile of bodies, a ND rugby squad is the cooperation and working 
Cheerleaders raise funds some similarities, but the similarity is merely 
porting the Fighting Irish teams. t-shirts, beer steins and buttons. serum is formed -that centipede biddle of human together. Larry Casey, this year's captain, makes 
A movie showing, senior bar night limbs. After the ball is thrown into the serum, 32 decisions only after consulting other team members 
Most of the money being raised

and the selling of slogan buttons wildly flailing legs (hands are illegal in the serum) for their opinions. The council weekly reviews each 
by the cheerleaders is going
are some of the fund raisers being attempt to get the ball out to a waiting back, and the rugger's performance in practice and jointly decides 
sponsored by the cheerleaders. towards the senior trip to the game goes on, tide-like in its fluid motion up and whether he is to play on the"~". "B", or "C" sides.
Southern Cal game. 
down the field. The typical Irish rugger played high school foot­Cheerleader captains, Sue "We have a fot of new stunts and Rugby has been around for over 70 years, mostly in ball, but still desires participation in a contact sport, Picton and Pat Heffernan, in­cheers involving the student California, where in the 1920's many schools dropped but without the structure of football.
dicated the strong support they a
body," Heffernan stated. "We can football as·being too brutal and unsportsmanlike. "I play rugby because it provides rugged,have received from the ad­Berkeley and Stanford were two schools that heeded demanding involvement in an intercollegiate sport," ministration and alumni this year. really use the support of the 
The group received a $2000 loan for students in backing the Irish." Teddy Roosevelt's criticisms of brutality and un­commented veteral Mitch Wilkes. "Rugby definitely sportsmanship in football. These two schools con­offers many social benefits, travel, the game parties, 
air fare to the Georgia Tech game 
tributed most of the players on the rugby team that and great friendship among the guys on and off the 
l 
and paid for their own lodgings. 
won two Olympic gold medals in the 20's. field.''
SZVX:: tennis team
Fu.nd raising activities planned Today American rugby, collegiate or city, is To rugger Fred Conle, the rugby club means a 
for the future include showing essentially the same as it was 50 years ago, a game of group of close friends in a close-knit sport. "We take 
! 
"Slaughterhouse Five" on Oct. 17 drops first match camaraderie, beery smells, and backslapping. pride in our team," added Fred, "on the road many 
and 18, and setting up a hot dog Typical of rugby is the annual Monterey National times our opponents equate ND rugby as being of the 
stand on football Saturdays in front Rugby tournament in San Francisco, where 32 teams same quality as the football or basketball programs. 
a the of season clash and decide a winner in two very short days. We are aware of this expectation and the team wants
of bookstore. 
One of the participants in the recent Monterrey to keep our status as one of the best squads in thet championships explained his interest in rugby. Jeff Midwest."
by Kathi Paterno 

Sevy, a 255 pount, 6'5" defensive tackle from "The game itself is fun to play," remarked team
Ice cheerleaders 
Berkeley plays both WFL football for Hawaii and captain Larry Casey, ''The hard hitting is there not 
! l Blue skies and crisp weather made a perfect tennis setting for rugby. He signed with l:lawaii to make a living, but to hurt anyone, but because it is part of the game. slate tryouts for St. Mary's match against prefers rugby, "a great social sport, not a hate sport Our program is geared to the individual putting out 
like football." what he wants within a loose group sport.''
Valpariso last Saturday. Despite 
The sacred traditions of rugby are the same Despite the repeated turnover every spring afterthe good weather, however, the whether the game is played in California, Ireland, or graduation, the Irish adjust to the losses and come upearly next week SMC team lost their first game of 
the season. Notre Dame. At the end of each game both teams with a winner. The Irish game is a somewhat clap each other off the field and shake everyone's disciplined, yet spontaneous exercise of strength,Any Notre Dame or St. Mary's Sue Stark and Lynn Griffin for 
hands much akin to the reception line at a wedding. speed, agility, and endurance, played under a tight
student interested in cheering on St. Mary's took two of the six But the most important institution is the post-game and complex set of laws and an even tighter un­singles matches, posting scores of
the 1974-75 Irish hockey team on party. The home team is expected to host a beer blast written code of ethics. 
4-6,6-1,6-4,and 7-5,6-1 respectively.
skates and in a skirt can realize Ann Houser and Louise Purcell for the visiting team. This is a friendly party, full of During the summer many ND ruggers flew to 
song, where guys who have bashed heads forr 90 Chicago at their own expense to play in a benefitthat dream. Hockey cheerleader teamed up to claim the only SMC minutes sit down for a friendly beer-or more. game against the Chicago Lions. The proceeds from win of the doubles events, downing 
tryouts will be held Sunday, What of your fellow students who call themselves the game, 4500 dollars, went to the American Cancer 
the Valpo team with a decisive 6­
September 22 at 5:00p.m. Figure 2,6-1 victory. the Notre Dame rugby club? The ruggers' squad has Society. done more than its share of traveling in past seasons. Finally ·why rugby? Maybe the shirt one spectator
St. Mary's will meet the Notre

skating experience is required. Dame women's tennis squad this This year's seniors have been to Ireland twice, wore at the Cancer Society benefit game said it best, 
For more information call Bethann Friday with hopes of avenging last Jamaica once, and all over the US. Tentative plans "rugby because.. .''. And for the Notre Dame 
(6783) or Donna (1047). year's loss to the Irish. this fall include a trip to the east coast and hopefully a ruggers, one shout of "let's go Irish" is enough to 
change the tide from defeat to a surge to victory. 









