r---·--------~--------­
On The Inside 
Letters 
•.. pg. 4 
Soph Fest 
... pg. 5 
:::::::::w»­

-. 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Vol. VIII, No. 74 Thursday, February 5, 197A 

Decision expected soon 
Parietals heads issues at SMC 
by Maria Gallagher 
i\~sociate Editor 

Parietals should be the item of most interest to students on St. Mary's Board of Regents' agenda this Friday and Satur­day. Dean of Students Kathleen Mulaney foresees a final decision then on the twice-tabled proposal. . 
''The Board said in October that 1t would deal with the issue one way or the other at the January meeting," she stated. "All r.1embers have had the necessary material to review, so it will probably be debated and voted on this weekend." 
How~ver, Mulaney declined to speculate on what that decision might be. 
"Whatever is decided, my hope is that it will be a responsible, complete statement respecting the amount of work that went into :he proposal." 
Nine months of study by St. Mary's Pianning Process produced the recom­r.,endalion that male visitation hours be extended from the prsent 1:00-5:00 p.m. Sundays to 7:00 p.m.-midnight Fridays, and noon to midnight Saturdays, and noon to 10:00 p.m. Sundays. It was first tabled a year ago when new members were added to the Board and it was felt that they were 

inadequately  prepared  to  vote  on  the  
r.'easure.  
Th  second  tabling  came  at  the  May  

peeling when a letter sent to parents by persons' opposed to extend parietals touched off a controversy with the result that the Board decided it could not make an impartial judgemnt on the matter at theat time. 
Mulaney emphasized that the expected decision "is one each Regent must make individually. It's difficult to say right now how the vote will go. I hope the campus will respect their decision whatever it is, since the Board is legally constituted ~overning body of the college. They are responsible people." 

Linnea Vacca of the English department took a different position. "I'm waiting to see how they're going to weasel out of a decision this time," she commented. "Students are at a disadvantage to speak for themselves-if they rant and rave because this doesn't go through, they'll(the board) just say, 'Look, they weren't mature enough to handle it anyway."' 
Vacca also expressed disappointment at the lack of student response to the previous postponements of action. 
Mrs. Anthony Black, wife of a SMC history professor and a signer of the controversial letter of last May, said no similiar action was planned this time. 
"My position is well known, and I feel 
very strongly about the matter," she said. 
"But I have nothing further to say about 
the proposal m· its outcome." 
St. Mary's President Edward Henry offered no predictions. "!have no idea how it'll go," he said. Henry did say that he favored the availability of alternate living styles on the campus, and the extension of r.,ale visitation was one possibility. 
Dr. Bruno Schlesinger, faculty 
representative on the Board, likewise 
"hadn't the faintest idea" of the proposal's 
fate, and declined to state wheter he 
personally favored it. 
Two hall directors gave concurring 
opinions about the measure and how it 
would effect residents. "I'd like to see it 
for the upperclassmen ,"commented Mrs. 
Elizabeth Dose of McCandlesss. 
"I don't think it's good for freshmen," 
believed Mrs. Grace Burke of Regina. 
"Freshmen have too many problems when 
they first come to college. But I have no 
objection to it for the older girls." 
Student representative to the Board Mary Eiien Stumpf was most optimistic. "I know it's going to get a lot of time and responsible discussion," she said. "Each r.1ember has a copy of the proposal and of the Student Life Council's minutes. I think they realize just how important it is, and I think it'll get a fair chance. We've done all we can." 
Text of the Proposal 
Resolved: that the planning Committee recommend to the president 
1. 
that the present male visitation hours at St. Mary's College be extended. 

2. 
that St. Mary's adopt a weekend policy of 7:00 p.m.-midnight Friday; noon to r.'idnight Saturday; and noon to 10:00 p.m. Sunday, during which hours male visitors would be allowed in dormatory rooms. 




McKiernan letter 
February 8 and 9 the Board of Regents Nil I meet at St. Mary's. The agenda is full and there are many issues that the Board will take up. However, there is a proposal on the agenda that is important not only to St. Mary's students but to the students at Notre Dame as well, that is the proposed policy on Male Visitation. 
Many things have happened on both campuses since the introduction of this bill last May. Both schools have progressed academically and enrollment has grown. Male visitation on Friday, Saturday and Sunday at St. Mary's College is a necessity. It is no longer something that might be nice to experiment with. The general attitude on campus is one of apathy to the point of immobility. No one has anywhere to turn. Continuing under the assumption that everything is normal at St. Mary's is more than a farce; it is a lie. There is no location on campus to carry on normal relationships between human beings. Everything on academic and administrative levels seem to be moving forward while Student Life is held back on "moral grounds" that do not even exist. If we at St. Mary's are really dedicated to the growth and education of women then we should be open to their education for society on the whole. Educating one sex without relation to the opposite sex is unhealthy and totally unrealistic. I appreciate the fact that St. Mary's Board of Regents has held any vote on this proposal until they have had time to study the document. I sincerely hope that they will vote on the document as it is. 
Because it is precisely that document that 
is at hand, nothing more--nothing less, and 
it has become a necessity. 
Barbara McKiernan 


Hesburgh speaks on proposed amendment 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 

Last fat! the South Bend League of Women Voters, as part of their efforts to promote the ratification of the Equai Rights Ar.1endment, asked Fr. Theodore Hesburgh to prepare a statement in suppor! of the proposed 27th Ar.1endment. In a pamphlet which quotes two dozen national figures and legislators, Fr. Hesburgh states: · 
"As a firr.1 believer in the use of the law to promote justice, I endorse the 27th Amendment as a fitting legal t:apslone to the legitimate strivings of women for equal opportunity in a nation which needs all the talent and dedication it can get from its citizens, female or male." 
Since Montana and Maine ratified the amendment iasl week, it is very possible that the amendment will become a part of the Constitution within the near future. (i\s of August, 1973, thirty states had ratified it. 
Thirty eight are needed.) 

Cor.,r.,enting further on the subject, Fr. Hesburgh iasl night pointed out that the Equal Rights Amend­r.,enl is an "enlargement of civil rights which began with the first ten amendments, the Bill of Rights." The 13th 14th and 15th Amendments extended those rights to ft;rmerslaves. Late1·, women were granted the right to vote and in 1971 this l'ight was granted to minors. Now, the Equal Rights Amendment <ERA) is a ~art of an "upward movement" to expand the equably of rights for which the Constitution was designed. 
Why hasn't Indiana yet ratified the ERA? "Basically,"Fr. Hesburgh said, "we are a very con­servative state. Also, many people have linked the issues of abortion and Equal Rights, which are toally separate issues." He mentioned that Alice Paul, aged 89 a formerieaderin the Women's Suffrage Movement, t>e'lieves that Women's Liberation has made the ratification of the ERA harder because people who react negatively to Women's Lib also react negatively to Equal Rights. "In fact", stated Fr. Hesburgh, "the 1968 Republican Convention was the first since the 1940's which did not include Women's rights in the platform, largely because a speech favoring abortion 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT "Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex. 
"Section 2. The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate· legislation, the provisions of this article. 
"Section 3. This amendment shall take effect two years after the date of ratification." 
IIIIIUIIIUIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll. imr.,ediately followed one supporting Equal Rights." The consensus among local women political leaders is that Indiana will not ratify the amendment this year. Pat Ban·ett, President of the South Bend-Mishawaka Wor.1en's Political Caucus, feels "it won't even get out of comr.1ittee." She feels that next year, when the legislature that just recently defeated the amendment dissolves and is replaced, could be the time for In­diana's ratification. Robin Hague, Director of Public Inforr.1ation at St. Mary's and a member of several iocal, women's political organizations, points out lh~i thisyea1·'sshort session won't make ERA top-priorny. Robin Hague argues that the public in general must "be educated" in the ir.1plications of the ERA and what it entails before any real progress can be made. What will change if the Equal Rights Amendment is ratified? Pat Barrett points out that the amendment will affect only laws, not institutions or social customs. Slate laws, in particular, would be affected. For example, laws which are presently discriminatory concerning : -pensions for state employees 
-organization of penal institutions -prostitution. At present, only a female can commit !he crir.1e -divorce iaws. There are no alinwny laws in Indiana now, but iaws of property holding and custody will be affected so as to permit a settlement either way, regardless of which partner is the "homemaker" or 1he "providor." -rape. Laws would include both sexes as possible victims. -stale institutions, such as schools. 
Concerning this last point, Elaine Robinson, Coor­dinator of the 3rd Congressional District for HERA <Hoosiers for Equal Rights Ar.1endment), complains that the University of Virginia accepts almost all male applicants, but not all females. "This would be changed", she said. Private insititutions, however, such as Notre Dame, won't be affected, assured F1·. Hesburgh. Pat Brretl r.1aintained that the only way private insitulions could be affected would be by the 
witholding of certain federal grants to force com­piiance with the regulations. 
AH these people feel that a Constitutional Aemnd­Pent is necessary due to the widespread discrir.linalion and the difficulty in changing laws in all 50 stales. A conw1on argument against the amendment -that it takes away from states rights-is countered by rhe fact that three-fourths of the slates must ratify the 

amendment befm·e it becomes law. Elaine Robinson r.'aintains that the issue of States Rights "was pretty Puch settled by the Civil War." 
The draft? "Congress has the power to draft women right now," argues Robin Hague. Most women would be piaced in non-combat positions, and besides, at the r.1oment "there isn't even a draft." Women would gain the same veterans benefits as men. 
Although the ERA "can't legislate relationships, it will give women the opportunity to make a choice between being a housewife and fulfilling herself in a career," sumr.1arized Elaine Robinson. Perh~ps Robin Hague said it most simply. "It will treat women as equals," she said. 

--------------------~-~--~------­
}. the observer Thursday, Fel;»ruary 5, 1974 
warlei 
briefs 

Grenada <UPil-This small Caribbean island toc;tay ~ro~e historic ties with Great Britain. The new ~ation. IS m­dependent for the first time under the leadership of tts new prime minister, Eric Gary. 
London <UPI>-Prime Minister Ted Heath wi~l address ~e Pal'liament today. The speech will follow a pnvate m~etm,g with his cabinet which will discuss the recent coalm!ner s strike and other national crises. An announcem_ent 1~ ex­pected to be rna de on whether m· not a general election wtll be held. 
san Antonio, Texas <UPI>--At least a half a_ dozen bul~ets struck three trucks which were running despite the ~a~on­wide boycott in Texas~ Rio Grande V~lley. Only one lDJury was reported as one dnver was struck m the left leg. 
an campus taday 
•4·.00 p.m.. rad. chem. seminar, "laser photoionization in micellar systems, conference rm. , radiation bldg. 
7:00 p.m.. lecture, "renaissance imagination", stapleton lounge 
7:30p.m., symposium ,"gratitude, an analysis of emotion of belief in prayer in theology", moreau seminary aud 
7:30 p.m., symposium, "arabs and africans : friends or foes", culture arts center, Iafortune 
8:00p.m., lecture, "gratitude, an analy~ls of emotion and 
belief in prayer in theology", moreau sem1nary aud 
7:00p.m., meeting, inpirt, second floor, Iafortune 
7:30p.m., wrestling, western michigan university, ace aux. 
gym 

7:30p.m. charismatic renewal, introduction to charismatic renewal, butler bldg. 
8:15 p.m., recital, faculty recital with john fisher, little theatre 
8:30p.m., meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, holy cross hall 

Aids Student Union 
Assembly allocates money 
St. Mary's Student Assembly 
voted Tuesday night to allocate 
$3000 to the Notre Dame Student 
Union to aid in alleviating the 
Union's financial troubles. The 
Assembly also directed $5000 
toward the refurnishing of the St. 
Mary's Coffeehouse, and $2700 
dollars for vehicles to be used by 
' arious groups in the school. 
Following a plea for funds by 
directors of the Student Union, the 
Assembly debated the question for 
nearly an hour before agreeing, by 
an 11-3 ma1·gin, to grant the aid. 
The three who voted against the 
proposition favored a larger grant 
of $4000 to $5000. The Student 
Union, after reminding the Assembly of its agreement of early · iast semester to grant funds, told 
of their $10,000 deficit, caused by 
the failure of several projects. 
Chairman of the Student Board 
of Governance, Barb McKiernan, 
said the Assembly halted the 
Drape named Editor-in-Chief of The Observer 
Tom Drape, a junior American 
Studies major from Kansas City, 
Missouri, was elected last night by 
The Observer Editorial Board to 
the position of Editor-in-Chief. The 
decision is pending the approval of 
The Observer Faculty Board, 
which will meet to consider the 
decision. 

Upon approval of the board, 
which consists of Profs. Ronald 
Weber, Dennis Dugan, Fredrick 
Dow, Thomas Jemielity and Sister 
Franzita Kane, Drape will assume 
the position effective March 18. 
Drape will replace Jerry Lutkus 
who has served a year as Editor-in 
Chief. His last issue will be March 
6. 
allocation process upon the 1·evelations of the Southern Califomia Football tickets con­troversy, and the subsequent reshuffling of Student Union of­ficials. 
The main argument in favor of the proposition was the unfairness with which the social and cultural events is administered on the two campuses. Whereas, St. Mary's girls enter most of their own ac­tivities free, Notre Dame students must pay for them at the door. At Notre Dame, however, both pay the same pl'ice. This payment, combined with the $14 per year fee Notre Dame students must pay, creates an unequal situation. 
Desiring  the  strongest  of  ties  
between  the  two  schools,  the  
Assembly  overwhelmingly  ap­ 

proved the proposal. The $3000, distributing to $2 per student, will come from the $5 added to each St. Mary's student's activities fee. 
To contract architects and decorators for redecorating the Coffeehouse, the Assembly voted $5000 to match the same amount offered by the Administration. Noting the Coffeehouse's present "cafeteria atmosphere," the body called it a worthwhile project with mut!h potential value and again strongly passed it. Until this point, the contract work and bids were suspended until funds allocation. 
The Assembly also voted $2,736 to College President Dr. Edward Henry for the purpose of pur­chasing a van and two cars for use by the College. One car will be used solely by the Student Government, and the van by Parent Delinquent Education Program operating from St. Mary's. Until the cars are pur­chased Dr. Henry offered the Assembly the use of his family's pe1·sonal car, a 1968 Dodge Polara, and it accepted his offer. 
Two other allocations were passed Tuesday, one for $500 to pay the two editors of last year's yearbook, "The Blue Mantle,:' who received no academic credit for their efforts. The other reim­bm·sed the St. Mary's Mardi Gras committee for $90 worth of sup­
plies. 
The way to buy the insurance you need but may feel you can't afford. For further information caH: 233-3104. Talk to: John CounsellJOHN COUNSELL Class of '64 CLASS OF '64 M<!>NY The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York MUTUAL OF NEW YORK  
...gone from the charts, but not from your hearts..• Oldies Night TONIGHT All your favorites played for free on our Super Quad system Also re-introducing the world famous 26 oz. BENDER Because we ran out early last week, we offer this special again. So come in and get bent. 0Special Tonight -$1 ° 


Students offer tax service 
Advanced students in business administration and law at Notre Dame have reopened their in­come tax clinic for a third con­secutive year to assist low income families in the completion of their federal and state tax forms. The confidential service is provided without charge. 
Counselors ·are presently on duty from 5 to 8 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays at the Hansel Neigh­borhood Service Center, 1045 W. Washington St., South Bend. Beginning February 9, they will be available for consultation from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturdays at Mid­west Council of LaRaza, 404 S. Walnut St., and at Model Cities, 1002 W. Thomas St. 
Assisted by faculty members and area certified public ac­countants who supply answers to technical questions, the group will expand their services in March to the Clay Neighborhood Center 18254 Warrick St.; Northeast Neighborhood Center 803 Notre 
Dame Ave.; Meadowbrook Center, 
52792 Hastings Rd.; and LaSalle 
Neighborhood Center, 110 Dundee 
The volunteer service program opened on a limited scale in 1972. It doubled in size, both in number of students involved and persons assisted last year. This year, with the opening of several new counselling centers and another doubling of studr;nt volunteers, the service is expected to be used by a record number of families seeking to pay a minimum tax m· receive a refund. 
The service is not available to those who have the means to . employ a professional consultant. 
IN CONCERT 



''QUICKSILVER" 
MESSENGER SERVICE With Special Guest 
MONTROSE 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1974 At The MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
7:30 P.M. 

$5.00 ADVANCE-$5.50 AT DOOR 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT: 

The Auditorium Box Office, 12:00 to 5:00 P.M. daily, except Sunday; Pandora's Book Store; Boogie Records and at Disc Records in Elkhart. 
' :'". I '; '· ."'• i 't ~ '. 
' I, ~ ~ J ~i ". 1 ~~ ' I. I 
.. , ,
~-' 

The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for -$8 per semester !Sl.C per year) from The Observer Box · Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
I ,t, ' 
f !
.'··· ·.· 
·~ ' •• 

Thursday, February 5, 1974 the observer 
Booted students voice opinions 
by Clyde Iverson Staff Reporter 

Girls, gross incompetence, and freshmen are the reasons behind the need to force students off campus. These are the opinions of students eligible to be booted off­campus who were recently con­tacted by The Observer. 
Mike Caraynoff, a junior from Stanford, was particularly adament. "I'm kind of perturbed, I don't see any need for it. As far as I'm concerned Notre Dame r:1ade amistake going co-ed in the first place. But since they are here there is no reason why they shouldn't be on an equal basis." 
Caraynoff feels that poor planning on the part of the ad­Pinistration added to the housing problem. Especially in the areas of freshman enrollments and available housing space. 
"I think they should begin to realize that the number of in­coming freshmen must be reduced. I think this is the third year that the actual number of entering freshmen have exceeded their prediction," he said. 
"And the housing situation is even worse," continued Caroynoff. 
"For ye!lrs they have known that the number of students would exceed the available room. So what does the administration do? Force people off campus. Yet they advertise the University as a boarding one." 
Caraynoff isn't the only one who is concerned about the prospects of forced off-campus life. Charles Lucier, a sophomore from St. Edwards, forsees several problems associated with living off-Campus. Not the least of which is transportation. 
"I have iived in an apartment and let me tell you, it's a hell of an inconvenience to have to worry about transportation and food," he observed. "One guy has to have a car. If no one does, then not only do you have to walk to and from the campus but you'll be carrying groceries home from the super­r.,arket." 
Dave Dieckleman, a junior from Fianner, feels much the same way. 
"Transportation will be the big problem. Without a car I don't see how it could be done." 
"But that won't be the only problem," he eontinued. "The University in reality does nothing for the off-campus student. Students are usually at the mercy of landlords. As far as I've heard rent gouging, inadequate main­tenance and general complacency are cor:1r.1on. If the administration really r:1eans what they say about caring for the student there is 

Court fight expected over tapes 
Nixon denies request 
Washington <UPil -President Nixon told a federal judge Wed­nesday he would refuse to grant rhe Senate Watergate committee's request for five White House tapes because it might jeopardize the national interest and forthcoming criminal trials. 
ln a separate letter to Watergate special prosecutor Leon Jaworski delivered Monday, Nixon's chief Watergate lawyer, James St. Clair, said the President would refuse Jaworski's request for additional tapes and White House documents. But St. Clair left the door open for further negotiations. 
Nixon wrote U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell that his con­stitutional oath of office "requires r:1y prohibiting the disclosure of any of these r-1aterials at this time and in this forum" before the Senate comr.1ittee. 
Earlier Wednesday, Jaworski advised Gesell he had no position on whether the five tapes sought by Sen. Sam J. Ervin's committee since last sumr:1er would have any effect on criminal trials in the Watergate scandal iftheyare made public. 
Gesell solicited opmwns from Jaworski and the White House before he decides whether to en­force the Ervin committee's subpoena for the five tapes. If he orders the Senate subpoena en­forced, the White House was ex­peeled to fight the issue through the courts. 

SMC Science Hall renovation under consideration byRegents 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

Renovation of St. Mary's Science Hail will be considered by the Board of Regents this weekend. 
Plans for the renovation call for the conversion of classrooms into taboratory space, according to Drs. Clarence Dineen and Francis Benton, chairmen of the biology and chemistry departments, respectively. 
"The reason for the renovation," said Benton, "is that the Nursing Program has increased the number of people the department has to handle. We<the chemistry department) have had our own problems with overcrowding, but the introduction of the nursing program has made our problems r:1ore acute." 
According to Dineen, the 70 presently in the nursing program have almost doubled the number of students in comparative anatomy and 11.eneral biology courses. By next fall, there will also be twice as Pany students in physiology and 
r:1 icrobiology, he said, which 
exceeds  the capacity  which  the  
labs can handle.  
Currently,  there  are  three  

chemistry labs and five biology labs. After the proposed renovation is completed, it is hoped that there will be at least three new chemistry labs and the eniargemnt and r.10dernization of three biology labs. 
"Two or three classrooms will be retained," Dineen continued, "and rhe overflow of classes will go into Madeleva, where there are empty classrooms." 
If passed, reconstruction of the building will begin in May, with the closing of school for the summer, said Benton. 
Specific plans for the renovation have been outlined by both the chemistry and biology depart­Penis. 
On the first floor, which houses the chemistry department, renovation will take place in two phases. During the first phase, stated Benton, a classroom will be converted into a physics lab, the present storage room will become an instrument room, and room 120, which was buill as an apartment 
and is now used for storage and 
instruments, will be turned into an 
advanced lab. Also, the stockroom 
will be modified and the basement 
used as a storage room. 
Recomendations for Phase II of 
the first floor renovation include 
conversion of the present science 
library into a general chemistry 
lab, the balance room into small 
research labs, and classroom 110 


Wednesday, Feb. 13 8:00 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Students $2.00 . Saint Mary's Collea~ .......~~~rYJiions:. · · 'Notr.!·oame; ·rnd.~. 28'4~4176 
into a balance room and three offices, continued Benton. 
For the second floor, the biology department plans to enlarge and better equip the microbiology lab, convert a classroom into faculty offices, a darkroom and research P icroscopy and audio-visual roor:1s. Three other labs, added Dineen, "will be renovated in terms of additional cabinets, sinks, and tables." 
Facts for funding the project were not available. 

plenty they could do." 
He elaborated, "First they could cut down on freshman enrollments. Second if the lottery is to really be fair girls should be included. Third, pressure should be put on the landlords to eliminate poor housing and rent gougers. Fourth, since they know there will be a housing shortage a new dorm should be built." 
While most students agree with Dieckleman that the housing situation is a serious problem, not aU feel that the administration is capable of doing very much about it. For instance, Rick Cusick, a junior at St. Edwards doesn't like the present situation, nevertheless, he doesn't feel that much can be done about it. 
"I don't like the idea of students being forced off campus, but I 
don't see that there is much that can be done about it. I don't think too many freshmen are being -accepted and from what I have heard a new dorm at this time would be too expensive," he noted. 

SUMMER JOBS 
Guys & Gals needed for summer employment at National Parks, Private Camps, Dude Ranches and Resorts throughout the nation. Over 50,000 students aided each year. For FREE information on student assistance program send self-addressed STAMPED enve­lope to Op,Jortunity Research, Dept. SJO, 55 Flathead Drive, Kalispell, MT 59901. ....YOU ML..ST APPLY EARLY.... 
THIS STUDENT ASSISTANCE PPOGRAM MAS BEI:'N REV1EWE08V THE I'EOERAt Tl=IAOE COV."wtiSSIOIII 

• AN EVENING WITH 
• 
Rod



McKuen 

LIVE, IN PERSON, WITH ORCHESTRA 

IN CONCERT· FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 22 • 8 PM! 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM· SOUTH BEND, IND. RESERVED SEATS $4.50-5.50-6.50 
Now on sale at Morris Auditorium Box Office, or by mail. Send payment with self-addressed, stamped envelope to: McKuen, Morris Aud., 211 N. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
Special Notre Dame-St. Mary's Discount! $1.00 off each ticket. Purchase discounted tickets at Morris Auditorium Box Office!
.---------------~· 
Student Union Invites You To 



ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
1/2 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar 

* 
Baggage handling &transportation to &from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
Reservations now being taken at SU Ticket Office Total payment of $270 due by February 14 (Valentine's Day.) 
,..· -.... ~· .. ~· -· .• ~· ~· .. •' ~· .. •\ ·'•'-'f''Ell.l."~'•••• . I .... , .I . '' • -·'• _ _,_' ••·­

Questions • call Sween at 3669 
4

r.,inistrative superiors. In one of 
the American corporate mind, it is 
' I Graver's quotes a girl says "There 
obvious that where the profits are,
is no place here where one can 
' that's where the oil will go. Where 
admit to being human." And "It 
the oil is being sent, the West used to be we had a sort of af­Coast, there aren't even enough
finity ... ". Yes it use to be; and that 
refiner facilities to accomodate the 
was the old Notre Dame before 
Alaskan oil. In fact, the West 
everybody was set to evaluating 
Coast needs a relatively small 
everybody else and before 
amount of oil. However, the 
everybody was finally reduced to a 
highest bidders will undoubtedly
statistic. I believe that if Notre 
be the Japanese who are in dire 
Dame students want to make a 
need of oil and also have the 
r.1ove against the dehumanizing 
refineries required. Japan, right
and alienating influence that has 
now, is in the midst of constructing
crept into our age, they can do so 
huge oil tankers undoubtedly to 
by refusing to participate in this 
bring the Alaskan oil to the Far 
biannual farce. If the funds 
East. 

allotted for this nonsense were 
What this whole matter pointsteachers indicates that as much 
placed at the disposal of faculty 
out is that the oil companies aredamage is done as good ac­
and studer;'s (teaching aids, lower 
using the "energy crisis" (as it iscomplished. It is certainly a 
book prices by subsidy, etc.) I 
called) for their own profit. In the dubious thesis that this is an in­
think that something of 
meantime we are losing ourstrument which aids the teacher to 
unquestionable value would 
American resources which should improve his or he1· skills; and the emerge. 
be held in trust for the people and only way it affects the O\erall 
Sincerely, 
not for the profit of a rapacioussituation is by removing untenured C.F. Weiher C.S.C. '44 few.
faculty who do not fit nicely into 

Philoso;>hy Dept.
the r.1old created by unimaginative categorizers. Perhaps the fact Daniel Baker
Crisis
that r.1ore students at Notre Dame Robert 0. Halpin that anywhere else have been conned into thinking that they Profits 1·eally evaluate by putting grades Editor: Cattle for on categories determine by ad­Little attention has been given to r.,inistrators, statisticians and how the oil companies of the U.S. the Cows computer capacities says have been using the "energy crisis Dear Cattlemen: something about how things have to further their own profit Next year when you begin your developed here of late. policies, and power. " The od annual "drive,' (otherwise known 
companies have scared the 
as "Here come the 
The typical administrative mind American public through the Busses!") ,could you please either simply cannot get beyond the Congress in order to lower the include some MEN in your herd, or carrot in front -whip behind sort of environmental standards, expand bus us women out? Thank you for 
strategy for attaining progress. the off-shore drilling, and allow the your inattention. 
This is really great for mules but it pipeline from Prudhoe Bay to Sincerely,does less that justice to human Valdez to be constructed. 
Those at home on the rangebeings. There is a delicate, 
In an enlightening interview with spiritual, and mysterious Senator Birch Bayh on television,
relationship involved in the 

the unethical practices of the oil 
teacher-learning situation, a companies is regards to the Calendar Rent relationship of persons. What 
Alaskan pipe line were revealed. 
passes between teacher and 

Two options were under con­
Dear Editor:student, what binds them into a 

sideration before Congress con­friendly common purpose cannot cerning where the oil line would go. As participants in the recent 
be categorized and measured and race for off-campus housing, we
One route was the McKenzie Valley 
any attempt to pit one against the find ourselves in a sony
which was desirable because it is 
p1·edicarnent that we feel deservesother r.1ay extinguish the flame. In 
on a geologically solid base and it 
a few cor:lf.lents. The Universitythe same issue of The Observer as 
is a I'OUte which would not disturb the snow job was a 'comr:1ent' by the migratory paths of wild life. decisions concerning off-campus 
Fred Graver entitled "A Sense of housing and the calendar show
But besides its environmental 
Humanity". I was struck by the either little forethought or a
advantages, the McKenzie route 
coincidence. If is precisely such serious lack of concern for the
terminates at Winnipeg where the 
well-intentioned, committee­financial situation of the Notre
oil could be fed to an already
generated, and wrong-headed Dame student.
existing line which leads to 
The current academic calendarinstrumentsas the evaluation that 
Chicago where the oil could be 
drive the wedge even deeper which begins three days before the 
given to the Mideast and the East
between human and human, end of of August, will not only force 
Coast where oil demand is the
between student and teacher and 1he student to forfeit one week's
highest. The other oil route which
between teacher and ad-wages, but also force a con­
the oil companies wanted and 
siderable number of off-campus
eventually got was the Alaskan oil 
students into accepting a ten
pipeline route which will go 
f.lonth lease, rather than the usual 
through earthquake prone 
nine f.lonthly lease. In some casesterritory. 
!.his will arnount to an additional
Bayh revealed that the oil 
$300.00 expense. We realize thatcompanies used collusion with the we cannot fault the landlords whooil business oriented Nixon Ad­are only trying to make a living.
minish·ation by lying about the But it is appa1·ent that the Ad­Canadian government's reaction Pinistration has overlooked this soto the pipeline down the McKenzie obvious consequence of theRiver Valley. Apparently, the calendar change.
State Dept. told Congress the With so r.1any students beingCanadians had rejected the forced off next year, we feel thatMcKenzie Valley proposal. Mter this is a problem of considerablethe other pipe line was already importance. The individualpassed through Congress did we student without any help what­learn that the Canadians had no soever from the university isobjections to the McKenzie Valley forced to bear this extra financialproposal as long as construction burden due to the calendar change met with Canadian environmental in addition to the other problemsstandards. 
off-campus housing usuallyWith the approval of the Alaskan presents.
Pipeline comes the killer. There Thus we feel that the Universityare absolutely no provisions in the in consideration of her students,bill passed by Congress that the oil now is forced to act on this newtransported will be sold in the problem which the calendar
United States!!! Taking into view 
change presents. r:rarry trudeau Respectfully, 

Courage to Sign 
Editor: 
If I may add one more letter to the continuing battle over the poor welcome received by the basketball team after UCLA... while I tend to agree with the sentiments expressed by that unnamed senior regarding the lack of spirit at DuLac as reported by the five freshman girls, I also notice that they had the courage to sign their names to the letter, while he didn't. 
Make of it what you will. Mike Robison 

Dining Behavior 
Editor: 
I wish to borrow your column to address several Notre Dame students who frequent the South Dining Hall, though I feel that my remarks may have a broader appeal. 
To the students who find their creative outlets throwing food: 
While it should go without saying, you apparently haven't noticed that your actions affect others besides yourself. I find it hard to believe that such behavior would be condoned by those responsible for your upbringing and wish to express my sym­pathies to them for your behavior tonight. It is also unfortunate for the rest of the student body that you chose Notre Dame as the back­drop for your prolonged adolescence. 
Perhaps you didn't realize that your decision to attend college marks you as a person with higher motivation than those who chose to work and raise families im­mediately after graduation from high school.. You may have failed to notice the list of potential em­ployers in the Administration Bldg. who are looking for the qualifications you will have. The university's purpose is to offer you a chance to be prepared for the "real world" by giving you the opportunity to partake in as many social and academic challenges as you are willing to take on. Since your present behavior indicates an unwillingness to accept a role whereby you are responsible for your own actions, I can't see how you'll ever develop the necessary self respect to provide leadership for others. 
The system has neither failed you nor passed you by, but rather you have chosen to fall far short of its standards. It is my hope that you will find a more altruistic mark for your collegiate career. 
Name withheld by request 


Evaluations Evaluation 

Editor: Okay so we've had our annual snow job article on teacher-course evaluation. Now a word from the nays. Professor Vasta's statement that "it has improved and changed teaching overall and for the bet­. ter" is clearly an unverifiable statement. The only grounds for r.1aking that claim would be the statistics based on the evaluation fom1s themselves -and that is simply circular. My own ex­perience and that of r.1any other 


daanesbury 

SIRE, YOVR. CO'Vr&R£NCE 
YESTERI?AY WAS A HIT/ AN ABSOWTE 8/.0CK8V57'~! THE PRESS FGEPBACK IS NOTHING 5HOR.T OF 
FABtJLOI/S I 
/ 
YOU'RE BG!N6 [}G5CRIBE[} WITH WORPS UK& "BR.IUIAN7;" "SUPERBLY OR6ANIZ£~" 
"WASH/NGTON:S LATEST WHIR.t..W/NO"! YOV'/(E 
BeiNG TREATEP t..IKE 
A HE!W, A SAVIOR., 
ALMOST A .. 
,I 
SIRE, HAVff YOt/ 6/VEN ANY THOV611T 
TO SPEAKING IN THE
ENOUGH, 

rAirHrl/l SCRIB&l FIRST PERSON 
PUIRAL?

YO// HAirE HE 
Bt..I/SH/ 
I 

John Domingues, Thomas Griffin and Dave McLoughlin 
the observer 

Night Editor: Bill Brink Asst. Night Editors: Dan Sanchez, Mike Kulc­zycki Layout Staff: AI Rutherford, Kathy Schwille, Robert Baker, Marlene Zloza, Ann McCary, Maria Gallagher, Ginny Faust, Andy Praschak, Dean Janke, 
_Day Editor: Tom Bundy Pattie Cooney 
Nite Controller: Phil Orscheln 

Copy Editor: Terry Keeney  
Typists:  Barb  Norcross,  Barb  Haug,  Tom  
·Modglin, John Ftartnigan  rb  
Compugraphic: J~ Abell  .-11 ,  

Thursday, February 5, 1974 the observer 


Plans linali.zed lor Soph festival 
Final arrangements for the Sophomore Literary Festival have been announced by Gary C. Zebrun, student chairman . 
This year's festival, which opens Sunday February 10, will present 
estabiished writers and prize auditoriup· The speakers will be winners in literature, as well as Stephen Spender, London poet, prospective winners of special critic, editor, novelist and short awards. story writer, and John Hollander of Hunter College. The two guests 
The festival dedicated this year will return for special tribute to toW. H. Auden, opens at 3:30p.m. Auden, at an 8 p.m. program. Sunday in the Memorial Library Auden was originally scheduled 
Opens next Thursday 
Billiard Tourney on cue 

by Andy Swanfeldt Staff Reporter 

The 1974 Billiard Tournament is due to begin on Thursday, February 14 in the poolroom, under the Huddle in LaFortune Student Center. 
As of now. only 80 students have signed up for the tournament. There is no entrance fee. The only thing a contestant must pay for is the amount of time it takes him to play a r.1atch. There are two sign­up sheets for those who are in­terested. The first one is in the poolroom and the other is outside the Off-Campus office. 
Brother Francis Gorch, r.,anager of LaFortune, and his six student aides have not designated any r.1ajm· rules for the tour­nament. The only time he said he would "crack down", would be during the semifinals and 
thereafter. It is up to the in­dividual contestants to decide how they want to play each individual 
Patch. There will be a limit of one week for each match to be played. The 
Deny parietal crackdown over 
last weekend 
by Patrick Hanifin 

Staff Reporter Dean of Students John Macheca denied yeste,·day that the Central 
~:~:~n~~n~u~~i~~rf~:~l~~ric~~fh=~~ 
was no particular crackdown over theweekend,andtheCentralStaff is planning none." 
However Macheca also said he has discussed rules with the staffs in preparing for next year. Macheca stated that the Central Staff has not passed any word to hallstaffstocrackdown. "Despite any rumors to the contrary any extra enforcement in the halls is r.1erely coincidental." He added 
that the Central Staff has begun working on staffing for the halls for next year. 
"In doing this we have talked to the staffs in the halls about what is expected of them, including the 
rules. If that started something in 
individual halls ifh; a concern of 
1 

The 1974 Billiard Tournament begins next week 
vnly cause for an extension will be trophy will be given to the 
due to a conflicting occurr~nces of deserving players at the con-
r.1ajor importance on campus. elusion of the tournament. 
Telephone numbers will be listed "We hope to finish before the 
with the name of each contestant. Easte1· break", said Brother 
Each match will be played up to Gorch. Our only problem will be 
100 points in straight pool. The the ten days off in March." 
entire tournament will be con-The competition is open to dueled on a single elimination anyone on campus. There are no basis. A first and second place ability classifications. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 


Literary Festival Schedule 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 10 

John Hollander Stephen Spender Library Auditorium, 3:30 p.m . 
"A Tribute to W. H. Auden" 
John Hollander 
Stephen Spender Library Auditorium, 8 p.m. 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY II Robert Creeley Library Auditorium, 8 p.m. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12 Samuel Hazo CCE 3:30p.m. Michael McClure LibJ·ary Auditorium, 8 p.m. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13 Bruce Jay Friedman Library Lounge, 1 p.m. Bruce Jay Friedman Library Auditorium, 8 p.m. 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14 Jason Miller Library Auditorium, 8 p.m. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15 Joyce Carol Oates Library Auditorium, 8 p.m. SATURDAY,FEBRUARYI6 
Isaac Bashevis Singer Library Auditorium, 8 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
In yesterday's OBSERVER , several errors were made regarding the times and places of the Sophomore Literary Festival schedule. Here is the complete and correct schedule for the event, due to begin February 10. 



ahe wnJ
1'ammei"' 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
... ~ ~ 
' ~


S: ~ 

~ ~ ~
tn HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN 1 1637 L" 1 W W 2-2 
anco n ay 3 ·6622 ..... 
;

It ~
'r 

'--( 
~
* 4 expert stylists 
1 1· f R K
* com p ete lne 0 hair products ~ 
~ 
* all services by appt. ~~... 
• --no wa lting 
~
* new CUStomers ~ ' 
1 ~ 
always we come 
the halls right now: • •uqm.-1.---------'-'----------------~..:.'-J 
to appear at the festival before his sudden death in September. 
Robert Creeley, professor at the State University of New York, will speak at 8 p.m. Monday, February 
11. His topic, "Saying as little as possible as often as possible," reportedly stems from his New England upbringing and his participation in the "Black Mountain" school of poetry. 
Samuel Hazo, an ND grad twice nominated for the National Book Award and once for the Pulitzer Prize for his poetry, will return to Notre Dame to discuss "Finding solace through words" at 3:30p.m. Tuesday in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 
The speaker at 8 p.m. Tuesday in the iibrary auditorium will be Michael McClure, "iiberation writer" of San Francisco and author of "Ghost Tanh·as." 
Bruce Friedman, acknowledged as "king of black humorists," will p1·esent a workshop on problems of the r.1ulti-media in his first ap­pearance at 1 p.m. Wednesday in the Library auditorium. He will continue this line during a second appearance that evening. 
On Thursday, Jason Miller will discuss current trends in playwriting and literature in a talk at 8 p.m. in the Library. Miller who plays Fr. Karras in the film "The Exorcist" won a Pulitzer Prize for his play "That Cham­pionship Season." 
Joyce Caml Oates, winner of the 1970 National Book Award and numerous other prizes for her writings, will discuss "With a sweetly brutal sense of what Ar.1erican Life is like" 8 p.m. Friday in the Library.. She also indicated intentions to ·explore humanistic and "third force" psychology in her sessions with students. 
The festival's final speaker, Isaac Bashevis Singer, will focus on "The supernatural" on Saturday at 8 p.m. The Polish­born author has been acclaimed for novels, "The Magician of Lublin," "The Slave." "Enemies, A Love Story," and his most recent work, "A Crown of Feathers." 
Consumerism Housing Environment Discrimination 
If you are concerned about any of these areas of Public Interest, come to the 


In PIRG MEETING 
Tuesday Nite at 7 

2nd Floor Lafortune 
In PIRG......honest. 

Now is the time to take time .... 
Retreat We.ekend 
Fr. Dave Burrell~ CSC 
Make reservations at Campus Ministry Office (103 Lib or call 6536 for more information••. <Talk a friend into taking time) 

~ 
1 
~ 
l 
l ~ ~ 
l 
t 
1 
l
t 

• ' 1 ~ • .. -.. f ~. { ·..,~ t ~ •••• 

the observer Thursday, February 5, 1974 
Recruiting program 
Resident assistant application still accepted 
by Ken Bradford 
Staff Reporter 

Forms for resident assistants applications should be available soon, according to Fr. James Flanigan, Assistant Vice­President of Student Mfairs. 
"Everyday I come into my office and expect to see them on my desk, but they simply haven't come in yet," Fr. Flanigan explained. 
When the application forms arrive , they will be sent out to students who have signed up for them, he said. 
Students wishing to apply for r. 
a. positions who have not signed up with Fr. Flanigan may still do so. 
Analyst cites education as future of computer 
by Jane Cannon Staff Reporter 

George J. Hach, systems analyst for the Honeywell Information Systems, presented a lecture, "Is There a Computer in Your Future: How Can I Deal With That Big Brain?", Tuesday at St. Mary's. The lecture was the fi1·st in a series of seven finance lectures sponsored by the Department of Business Adr.1inistration and Economics. 
"Computers are becoming a part of the world around you, it's best that you learn a little about them," explaind Hach. He continued, "Computers are becoming sornething we take for granted... ' everywhere we look, there is another computer in use." 
Hach cited numerous examples showing the wide variety of uses of the computer. He pointed out the prir.1ary function of the computer as a "r.1eans of getting information with incredible speed and unfailing accuracy.'' 
The Honeywell representative stated that "the computer is not a brain and it will never make man obsolete." He made mention of several jobs open in the area of computers and explained that "cor.1puters can't replace man because it is only a machine, without any feelings, ... computers can't speculate on the future as r.,an can." 
He went on to say "you are smarter than any computer made today...computers are becoming a very important and interesting way to learn." 
Hach pointed out that his company is interested in teaching people how to use computers to further their education, rather than to make man obsolete. 
He concluded by stating that, "Honeywell is not worried about computers r.1aking people ob­solete, but people making them­selves obsolete." 
Hach is working to install an on­car.lpus computer center at St. Mary's and is an instructor for the Computer Automation Training Workshop, a vocational training programs for the students at St. Mary's. 1 
Dr. Farouk Mawakki, chairman of the Department of Business Administration and Economics at St. Mary's, hopes that through this lecture series, "Contemporary 
Issues  in  Business  and  
Economics,"  students  at  St.  
Mary's  and  residents  of  the  

Michiana area will acquire an "understanding of the aspects of today's issues in the business world, and will be aware of the complexities of life so that they can r.1eet it without frustration." 
The next lecture, to be presented February 12, at 7:30 in Canoll Hall, Madeleva, will concern women and computers. 

Fr. James Flannigan explained the resident assistant situation for next year. (Staff photo by Maria Gallagher) 


FLORIDA 

are often made just before the beginning of the school year, Fr. Flanigan said. 
"The results of the hall lotteries should have no effect on the selection of next year's r. a.'s since the rooms set aside for r. a.'s were not subject to hall lotteries," Fr. Flanigan explained. 
Students forced off-campus by the lottery will also have no ad­vantage in the resident assistant selections, Fr. Flanigan stated. 
Vacancies caused by r. a.'s being chosen from students now con­tracting a room on campus will be filled from the established waiting lists for each hall, Fr. Flanigan noted. 
"We are looking for qualified people who can do the job, so we are not basing our judgements on financial need," he said. 
Fr. Flanigan also stated that there would be a recruiting program for r. a.'s in a week or so where present r. a.'s and rectors wi tl further discuss the qualifications and responsibilities of the job. 
The time and the location of that r.1eeting will be announced as the 
"There is no panic yet. We still have plenty of time," Fr. Flanigan stated. 
Requiremnts for r. a. postions include a3.10 grade point average and status as a senior or graduate student. 
The application procedure for being a resident assbtant requires the completion of the application forms and securing three recommendation from the faculty or administration. 
Qualifying candidates are in­terviewed by representatives of the Student Affairs office and by r.1embers of the hall staffs. 
Final decisions are made by Fr. Flanigan and final arrangements 
The speaker will be Patricia Costello, St. Mary's Alumna and the Industry Advisor for Honeywell Information Systems. The public is invited to every 
Scene from our 1973 NIU Trip. 
SPRING BREAK ­DAYTONA BEACH 
* 
March 8-16 
* 
Includes all Transportation 
* 
Includes all Accommodations 
* 
Choice of efficiencies or Regular Rooms
* FREE PARTIES WHILE TRAVEL! NG *Disney World Options
*Other Special Optitions 
* Free Bar B Ques & Parties in Daytona. 
Lf Ml TED ACCOMMODA Tl ONS Sign up Early SMC 5149 N D 8677 Evenings & Weekends 
TOTAL PRICE $12450 
the "ACTION TRI PN Join Northern Ill. & Illinois State .. usE your ma,ster charge 
TH,-1--.ft R8ANII. ( U:IQ 

MASTERCHARGE 
I 


-~----------------~­
In response to crisis 
ND conserves energy 
by Ken Girouard 
Staff Reporter 
In an open letter to the Notre Dame community released Tuesday, the chairman of the University Energy Conservation Committee Fr. James F. Flanigan outlined ways to save energy on campus. 
Although not con1menting as to whether Notre Dame faces an energy shortage, Flanigan stressed the obvious ways to reduce energy waste. These suggestions include: 
-tum off all lights when a room is not in use --do not tum on any unnecessary lights 
--reduce or eliminate use of hot 
plates, toasters, TV sets, hair 
dryers, and other high users of 
power between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. 
--do not use electric heaters 
Flanigan stressed that voluntary cooperation is the keynote, as 

For recreation and education 
Flying Irish fill aviation need 
by Michelle Tate Staff Reporter 
"I get calls from people wanting to know if we skydive-actually we have nothing to do with skydiving", complained Cliff Walton, President and a principal organizer of U,e Notre Dame Flying Irish Club. 
Three years ago, Walton com­bined his efforts with those of Prof. 
A.L. Soens, Walt Schwarz and Bill Cotter to-remedy a "need for aerospace education recreation at reduced cost for our community." The clubs constitution dedicates its purpose to the promotion of a "knowledge of the history of aviation, aviation principles and safe aviation practices with perhaps, a special emphasis on that last dimension." The club has expanded to include almost 75 people -a hetergenous group of professors and undergrads pilots and non-pilots. The Flying Irish are a three-pronged organizaton acting simultaneously as a cor­poration, as a club and as a competitive team. 

Gabriel new president of international comission 
Professor A.L. Gabriel, director Professo1• Gabriel was reelected as of the University of Notre Dame's U.S. representative in the Com­Medeivel Institute, has been r:1ission, and made his report on elected president of the In­the progress of the Bibliography of 
ternational Commission for the American Universities founded 

History of Universities within the hefore 1800. 
International Committee of 
Historical Sciences. He succeeds 
Professor Stelling-Michaud, of the 
University of Geneve, who headed 
the Commission from 1960-1970. 
The election by the 15 nations who comprise the constituent members of the Commission tool place recently at Brussels, Belgium, where the Commission r.1ade preparatory arrangements for the session on history of universities during the fourteenth International Congress of 
WHATEVER THE
Historical Sciences to be held in San Francisco, August 22-29, 1975. 
•
The last meeting of the Com­mission was held in Moscow in August, 1970. 
Professor Gabriel, in his capacity as Commission president, also participated in the January 11 meeting of the Executive Com­mittee for the celebration of the 550th Anniversary of the University of Louvain in 1975. 
Beside,.s being elected president, 

': ·>:.·..:~; .· ' . .. . . .~>.:·· ..·:~.::.~.>.:\i:.;;,;;;.;:<:· ;:·,;·.;·.:·;.'·.>.·.>\~:--;<<<i.:.<~~·:~~·::::~;~,;:·,,:·,,:·;:.: -:~,:-,;·,.::;:-,:_,_, ·>·: .\-, : ... ' .~ 
evidenced by the fact that the Power Plant has J'eported a dec1·ease in power consun1ption for the last three months. There are no reasons for this reduction, except possibly the presence of red, white , and blue stickers which are found above some light switches around campus. 
"Our efforts so far have been on the obvious things that everyone can do," said Flanigan. "We are trying to make everyone aware of the pmblem, so that the University 
can  do  its  part  to  conserve  
energy."  
The  main  problem  at  the  
University  seems  to  be  

overlighting, especially in the newer buildings. Flanigan stated, "Electrical energy is the highest consumer here on campus. Healing is not a real problem because it is only a side effect of 
the electrical energy." 
"Since our facilities can adapt to the type of fuel that is cheapest at the time, there is no immea1iate 
"Flying Irish, Incorporated, is a corporation having no affiliation with the university, but offers flight operations and instruction to nembers of the Notre Dame Flying Irish only. Each organization maintains its own legal identity so that the Univer­sity cannot be held liable," ex­plained Walton. This facet of the Flying Irish enables club members to use the facilities of Johnstone Aviation Based at Elkhart Airport. 
"We currently operate two Cessna 150 trainers and a Cesna 172. Sky hawk for fli11.hts and instrument training," Walton stated. The najor benefit to the student is the tJ·emendous cost reduction. From a price range of $1000-1200 for a 40 hr private pilot license. to the corporation's same program for approximately $G00-700. 
However, members of the Flying Irish do not have to fly to belong. The club aspect operates a ground school for private pilots 
which is certified by the FAA. 
Normally, this course would cost 
$110 bu' the club offers it free to 
prosper live pilots and other in­.-, oblem. It is getting more ex­pensive to replace a pile of coal, though," he continued. 

The committee, at this time, is creating a campus awareness of the fuel problem. When asked if there were any further steps 
planned, Flanigan replied, "If everybody does the obvious things to save energy, then we won't need anything more. We have no preconceived notions that we have to go out and do things such as rewiring or reducing the amount of lighting. However, we will look into the possibilities if our first efforts are unsuccessful.." 
The University Energy Con­se,·vation Committee is composed of members of the faculty, staff, administration and student body. Members include, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Fr. James Burtchaell, Fr. Flanigan, Dean Joseph C. Hogan of the College of Engineering serving as vice­chairman, and Carol Simmons, a 
student serving as Secretary. 

terested members, the latter who might simlply want to increase their knowledge of navigation,meteorology, flight 
theory, communication and safety. 
The beginner pilot usually takes the course concurrently with his flight training and Walton, who is one of the instructors, stressed its importance. "I don't believe in the flying class room cliche. I think the classroom is on the ground and its application in the air." Upon 
the  course's  conclusion,  the  
student  takes  the  official  FAA  
written exam.  

As a competitive sport the Irish Flyers brought home a trophy from the St. Louis Regional Air Meet. They are a -member in good standing of the National Intercollegiate Flying Assn. <NIFA) which sponsors com­petition in cross~ountry, landing, take-off and other flying techniques. 
Activities The club meets every Wed­nesday night at 7:00 p.m. Their itinerary offers several field trips to FAA facilities, guest speakers "Prominent people in the aviation'aerospace field", and "hanger flying parties." A pet ,project of some members has been the building of a volsplane which will reminisce of the open cockpit, Red Baron era. Walton suggested that "most of the people view the club as a hobby. The ground school is an education in itself and the navigation you can use elsewhere, as in sailing." 

the observer
Thursday, February 5.L.J974 
Worried About Moving 
Off-Campus? 
Call in Your Questions Tonight 
To Fr. James Shilts and Off-Campus Commissioner Mick Hartigan 
on Contact: Notre Dame 
10:00 WSND AM-FM 
WEEKENDS 
AT THE 
VILLAGE INN 
you can get 
Chris Manion's Music Beer and Wine on Sunday, and Sunday discounts on big piuas US 31 North of Howard Johnson's i 
L--------­
----==================~'. 
SUMMER SCHOOL IN ROME 
Saint Mary ,s College June 22 -August 2 All inclusive price $1000 -room, board, tuition, transportation Italian Art · 
3 s.h. Archaeology 3 s.h. 
Language & CuHure 2 s.h. 
See Sister Alma, Room 115 LeiVIans Hall for additiona I information 
APPLICATION DEADLINE-February 25 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
PERSONALS 
Kapu: Eat guano. 
madam Fifi, When it comes to having warts, you should kno~. 
Daniel. 
P.S. I'd rather be a princely frog than a frogly prince, eg. Tennessee, Zahmbie, and King Flit. Ribit. 
Ali Macgraw(Judy A., B-P): Just think! We have 2 more years together! 
Love, Ken + George(lips). 
DIRT WEEK: To grovel-v., to wallow DIRT WEEK: it is bustin' out all over. 
Operator 104: Love is blowing kisse·; long distance. 
.:~gal ad 492. 
Minnesota,  the  ostman  
cometh.  
'  mcinnati.  

NOTIC'.S 
All Sophomore Literary Festival authors 20 per cent off at PANDORA'S. N. St. Louis St. at SB Ave. 233-2342. Open 7 days. 
Attention Faculty and Staff. Looking for interior and ex­terior painting jobs. Ex­perienced N D students. 
Reasonable. Available now for interior work. Call 233-9231. 
We still have Youth Fares to Europe! Call Clark at 234-2098 and save $$$. 
' ' ' -' .. '. '·..,'·..,'·/"-:·:>>:·:·~<·>:·;. >>::· .... ,. 
WANTED 
Need 4 people to share house · next year. Call 233-9231. 
Need 2 Duke tix. also 2 MSU hockey tix. Sat. 233-4278. 
Need ride to Madison Wis. Fri. after 2 pm. $$ 6727. 
Need ride to Cleveland exit 10 this weekend Tom 233-9068. 
FOR SALE 
Pioneer SA500A , PL 12-D turntable, (2) smaller Advents, $285. All new . Golden Dome Records 804 Flanner, Phone 1487. 
Wilson classic golf clubs, bag, balls, and tees. Less than year old. Best offer. 8428. 
Folk guitar, excellent con­dition. Call Mary 283-1347. Case included. 
Petrie FT2 35 mm. FLR camera with 200 mm. Lentar lens. Plus two filters. $130. 683-7792. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: girl's coat accidentally swapped in Grace basement. Camel coat with criss-cross tie belt, silver pin, Branson's Iobei. 6756. 
Lost ID. John Lantzy. Please notify again. 

-~ ~ ---------~ -~------~­
f---the observer Thu~sd-:.-;ebruary s, 1974 
~ _, Irish. overwhelm Explorers, 98-78 
by John Moushigian novers. LaSalle h1t a poor 38 per rnak1!lg a Joke out of the game. 
The Fighting Irish basketball cent from the floor 16 -42, turning Leadmg 76-66 with 6:48left to play team began the eastern swing of the ball over 11 times. Brokaw and the Irish reeled off 19 unanswered their schedule on an impressive Shumate put on a two man show points in the next 4 minutes and 48 note by drubbing LaSalle 98 -78, scoring 16 points a piece and 32 of seconds of play to strech their lead before 9,000 wild fans at the the team's total48. Brokaw hit 6 of to 91 -66. Palestra in Philadelphia. 8 fJ·om the field while the Big Shu 
hit eight of 11. Trailing by 17 points and havingThe crowd delayed the contest three key players in foul trouble,several limes by throwing debris Shumate started the second half LaSalle finally broke its scoring
onto the court, but their actions as he did the first by getting the tip draught at the 2 minute mark on ahad no ill-effect on the Irish per­to Clay, but the Irish committed Charlie Wise lay up. The Irish led 
formance. two straight turnovers which were by as r.1any as 25 points before converted to four Explorer points 
their rese1·ves came in and finished Gary Brokaw had the games bringing the score to 48 -37. 
the game with a 20 point bulge and 
initial score, sinking one of two Adrian Dantley picked up three a 98 -78 victory.
free throws. LaSalle had the lead quick fouls eal'ly in the second early in the game with their half. The three fouls gave A.D.. Coach Digger Phelps had ex­iargest margin being 17-13 after a four for the game and he was pected a very physical game from 3 point play by reserve guard quickly replaced by Billy Paterno. LaSalle and he got just that. Five Frank Moffatt. The lead changed players, including three from hands five limes in the first 11 With 15:20 left in the game Shu LaSalle <Moffatt, DiCocco, and Pinutes, and LaSalle stayed close was called for goal tending on a Wise) and two from the Irish 
to the IJ ish due mainly to N.D. Taylor shot and as he came down <Dantley and Paterno), fouled out turnovers. the Irish center collided with Joe of the contest. Bryant asboth players fell heavily But after a 3 pt. play by B1·okaw on the floor. Shu rose .slowly and Notre Dame's leading scorers at the nine r.1inute mark the Irish was O.K., but Bryant left the game were Brokaw with a game high 28 
points, Shumate with 26 and
be~an to pull away. LaSalle with an injured ankle and never quickly got into foul trouble and 1·eturned. Bryant, the Explorer's Dantley with 10. Billy Taylor led 
N.D. Iook advantage of this leading scorer with 19.1 ppg., had the Explorers with 25 points, but situation by sinking 10 of 12 foul only 2 points in the first half and 6 three other LaSalle players shots in the first half, while the points overall. finished in double figures; Wise 
Explorers went to the line only had 14; Moffatt 11, and DiCocco 10. 
once in the first stanza. A comical note was added by The Irish viewed South
LaSalle's starling guard Charlie 
Carolina's thumping of VillanovaThe ll'ish began connecting more 
Wise when he fouled "Goose " 
by the score of 63-47 in the opening frequently near the end of the half 
Novak who was driving in for a lay 
game of the double-header. Guardand had their largest lead 48 -31 
up. Wise was chasing "Goose", 
Brian Winters led the Gamecockswith 30 seconds to play on a nice 
and when he was whistled for the 
to their 14th win with 25 points.
feed from Brokaw to Shumate. foul he kept on going into the 
However, Billy Taylor cut N.D.'s Notre Dame travels to South
stands where he promptly sat 
iead to 15 points 48 -33 by scoring down in an empty seat looking at Carolina on February 16. However, with 5 seconds before the buzzer. 
the Palestra ceiling in disbelief. N.D.'s next encounter is an af­The referee, however, wasn't to ternoon contest this Saturday
The first half statistics showed against Duke at the A.C.C. The
amused with Wise's act and hit the 
that the Irish shot an impressive guard with a technical foul. !!ame is sold out, but it can be 
59.4 per cent from the floor 19 out of heard on WNDU and WSBT radio 32 but they committed 12 tur-Notre Dame, meanwhile, was at 2 p.m. 
Wrestlers get set for tough vveek 
by Hal Munger a quarter-final pin and a semi-final perhaps its toughest week of the 
Heavyweight Mike Fanning took decision <6-ll. season with three matches the top spot . in the ten-team Captain Rich Gilloon, wrestling scheduled. A win in any of the National Catholic Wrestling 158 was defeated 17-8 in the finals meets would be Notre Dame's lith Tournament at Cleveland's John but won the semis, 7-5, and the of the season, tying the record set Carroll University this past quarters by a pm. two seasons ago. 
weekend. Besides the one Rocek dropped a closer.,atch, 2-1, champion, the Irish placed three at 190 pounds t_o John Carroll's Tim (m Thursday evening, the Irish men second, garnering 94 points Schaefer. Pnor to that, Ace had will host Western Michigan 3-5 in and a second-place team finish won the semi-finals 00-8) and the dual meets. Notre Dan~e has behind the host school, John quarter-finals <pin in 6:37). captured only two meets in 16 Carroll. Marquette was a step Dan_ H~f~ernan . and Fritz previous r.1eetings with the behind ND in third position Bruenmg fu:ushed th1rd in 118 and Broncos. Doug Wyn 067 pounds) position. 150 respectlvely. At 126, Steve certainly has lived up to his last 
Fanning, who was top-seeded as Moylan ended fourth. name as he is leading Western were Al Rocek and Dave Boyer, ~t the end of ~he first day's Michigan with a 17-0 mark. Notre won the quarter-final and semi-action, ND was tied for second Dame's John Dowd 9-3 in dual final matches with pins. In the place and had qualified eight of its meets will try to break Wyn's finals he decisioned Joe Bertolone 10 wrestlers for the next day's streak of 28 consecutive dual of John Carroll,4-0. matches. victories. 
At 142, Dave Boyer earned , Seeking to establish a new second after being decisioned by . season victory mark, Coach Fred Friday will find the Irish in Tom Szendson of St. John's . Pechek's Notre Dame wrestling Milwaukee to take on dangerous <Minn.), 7-3. Boyer advanced with 10-2 in dual enters Marquette. Although the Warriors 
are 3-4 this season, they have been plagued by injuries. 
A Sunday afternoon match at fm·midable Purdue ends the busy week. The Boilermakers are 6-6 in dual meets, 3-0 outside their rugged Big Ten schedule. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame placed second in the 10-team National Catholic Tournament, its highest finish ever. Heavyweight Mike Fanning was Notre Dame's sole victor, pinning two of three opponents for the crown. Fanning, a defensive tackle on Notre Dame's national championship football squad, is now 8-0 for the season, seven of the victories on pins, and only one wrestler has reached the third period against the Tulsa, Okla. native. 
Al "Ace" Rocek 090 pounds from Omaha, Nebr.) needs but one victory to tie the all-time Irish mark of 50 set by Ken Ryan {1968­72). Rocek and Dave Boyer (142, Lake Orion, Mich.) were the only other two wrestlers for NotreCoach Fred Pechek puts a 10 -2 record on the line this week as his Dame to t·each the finals of thewrestlers face a busy schedule. 
tournament. 

. . . . 


Gary Brokaw had more ~ump shots than lay-ups last night, but he still accounted for 28 points in the Irish 98-78 win. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

Fencers remain unbeaten 
by John K. Vincent 

Perfect records are not unknown at Notre Dame, and the Irish fencing team is no exception. Last Saturday in Wisconsin, Notre Dame adrled victories over Chi­cago Circle · (21-6), Milwaukee Tech (24-3) and host Wisconsin­Parkside 05-12 to run their mark to 9-0. 
Althoughthe team enjoyed un­blemished success, three in­dividuals lost their first matches of the season. Tri-captain Mike Matranga dropped an epee match to Parkside, finishing 2-1 while sweeping both Milwaukee and Chicago Circle, 3-0. He is now 20-1. 
Fellow tri-captain Jim Mellenix and his foil cohort, Tom Coye, both d1·opped their first matches of the season, also to Parkside. Against the strong Wisconsin foilists, Mullenix was 2-1 while Coye d1·opped all three as Notre Dame lost, 6-3 in the weapon. The pair finished 6-1 and 4-3 respectively during the competition. 
In sabre, Roy Seitz finished 4-3 for the afternoon's fencing while Sam DiFiglio was 4-1. 
The Irish fencers will r.1eet University of Chicago, Indiana and Detroit at Chicago this weekend. Detroit, which has not been an easy opponent for Notre Dame in the past, should not be as difficult this season as they have lost the services of two-time All-American Tyrone Simmons, a graduate last May. 
"If our team fences as well as it has in the past, "Irish coach Mike DeCicco said, "we could come out of the weekend with three vic­tories. And if we can go into our next home meet, we will be in good shape." 
DeCicco was referring to the home quadrangular on February 16 against Ohio State, Michigan State and Cleveland State. Last season, the Irish dropped a 14-13 decision to the Buckeyes. 
This home quadrangular will be the iast opportunity for Notre DAme fans to see the fencers in action. 
Matranga's fourth victory on Saturday was also the number 100 of his career. In four seasons at Notre Dame, Matranga shows an nutstanding 104-24 record. 
NDswimmers finish out 
home season 
The home portion of Notre Dar.1e's 1973-74 swimming season comes to a close this weekend and early next week with a pair of dual Peets. The Irish, coming off a 61­52 loss to Marshall University in Huntington, W.Va., return to face St. Bonaventure Saturday and Bradley University on Tuesday afternoon. 
Cagers return 
The Irish basketball team will return home from LaSalle this morning at 11:45 a.m. The bus will pull into the main circle. 







