------~-------. 
Oil The Inside 
McLaughlin criticism ... page 3 
Senior trip ... page 10 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 3 Friday, August 30, 1974 • 


Rectors apprehensive 

LCOHOLPOLICY DISCUSSED 
Dillon rector Fr. David Schlaver stated that no large parties with alcohol will be allowed in his hall this year, but stressed his commitment to cooperating with students in an effort to lower Indiana's legal drinking age to 18. 
Schlaver called the new guidleines a "setback to the programs of hall spirit and education in the proper use of alcohol. 
Farley rectress Sr. Jean Lenz stated that she was pleased with the old guidelines and that the new guidelines will require an extensive adjustment. "We are used to doing things one way and now it's all dif­ferent," she said. 
Helen Gallagher, rectress of Badin Hall, said that she was "frustrated" by the new ruling. Pointing out that many students come from states and homes where underage drinking is acceptable, she said "a period of adjustment to the strictness of the new rule must be expected." 
Gallagher also expressed hope that the universiy will aim for consistent enforcement "so that the students will be completely aware of their own position." 
Walsh Hall rector Joanne Szafran regards the court's decision as "a definite step backward for the state and thus for the University." She also expressed concern that the students are not fully aware of the serious implications of the law and that an effort 
by Ken Bradford Mark Jahne and Ellen Syburg Staff Reporters 

Several hall rectors yesterday expressed their con­cern over the University's new policy on alcoholic beverages and its potential effect on student life. 
Flanner rector Fr. John Mulcahy observed that the "distasteful task" of enforcing the new student liquor guidelines will inevitably belong to the hall staff. "We're not going to go out of our way to find violations," he explained "but anything we see we will have to pointout, and the students under twenty­one will help us do it." 
Mulcahy, who also serves as director of Student Housing, forsees few problems between Flanner residents ahd the hall staff in complying with the 
ship last year," he noted. Keenan Hall rector Fr. Richard Conyers agreed that "the hall staff is the enforcing agent and will have to observe the laws of the state." 
Conyers noted that Keenan residents have been asked to be creative in their consideration of the new guidelines. "I hope that this is not the most crucial issue in the hall during the school year," he said. 
The campus proximity to the Michigan border is of deep concern to Stanford Hall rector Fr. John Lahey. He stated that the guidelines encourage an increase in driving to Michigan, where the legal drinking age is 18, and the possibility of driving under the influence of alcohol. 
Nearly all of the rectors contacted agreed there is little choice in the matter. As Fr. Richard Zang of Sorin Hall explained, "We are restricted and con­strained by the laws of the State of Indiana." 

J<'r. David Shlaver promised cooperation with 
students in trying to lower Indiana's legal 
drinking age. 

should be made to inform them. 
Fr. Tallarida, Zahm Hall rector , feels that it is unfortunate that a decision of the Indiana judicial system should impede the educational process that the Student Affairs Office was trying to effect through their former guidelines on the use of alcohol." 
Fr. Miceli of Cavanaugh Hall stated that he intends to see that the state law is followed. He feels that "the students are mature enough to handle this situation" and anticipates few problems. 
The Campus .sec~rity Department's role in enforcing the alcohol guidelines has riot yet been determined Monitors at the east and west gates disclosed th~t they. did not kno:-v whether they were required to confrscate alcoholic beverages from students entering campus. 
Campus Security Director Arthur Pears stated that he was too busy to discuss the new guidelines at this time. 
Other major Indiana universities not affected by court ruling 
By Bill Brink Senior Night Editor 

Six major Indiana universities have not been affected by the recent state court rulings on alcohol consumption. University officials at each of these schools said they have always complied with the Ind~ana drinking age of 21 for students living on campus. 
Results of a survey which covered Indiana , Indiana State, Purdue, Ball State, and Valparaiso Universities along with St. Joseph's College, indicated that the two recent Indiana court rulings concerning alcohol had not altered their policy of prohibiting drinking on campus by minors. 
It was these court decisions which were responsible for the establishment of new alcohol guidelines outlawing underage drinking on the Notre Dame campus. 
All six colleges indicated that they have not only recognized but also felt responsible for upholding the Indiana law restricting alcohol to persons age 21 or over. 
Both Indiana and Indiana State Universities stressed that as state schools they have an added obligation to comply with the law. None of the schools had any provisions for underage drinking on campus prior to the court rulings. 
"We've qudted the laws and stated that it is no permissable," remarked Dean Schroer at Valparaiso University. 
He admitted that in the Universities review of fraternity drinking regulations the recent court decision "became part of the discussion but did not motivate the discussion." He pointed out , however, that fraternities are considered off­campus and that any changes regarding their drinking status is not a change concerning the established drinking policy on campus. 

The dean of students at each of the colleges agreed that their offices were ultimately responsible for enforcement of the. alcohol regualtions. They also joined in naming the campus security force and hall resident assistants as liable for. _;enforcement. 
If an alcohol abi1re were spotted by the seeurity force, "the could and would make an arres," said Dr. Steven Akers, associate Dean of Students at Purdue. 
Some of the schools have directors or super­visors living in the hall who are also responsible for seeing that drinking regulations are upheld. St. Josph's College has priests living· in the dormitories, but according to Dean_ Hughes, "they have no responsibility for such enforeemnt except by their own personal choice." 
All the deans agreed that they cannot possibly deal with every alcohol violation, but that no social function or gathering that involves un­derage drinking can be sanctioned by their schools. 
Indiana, Indiana State, and Ball State have "over-21-halls" or sections which are occupied by students 21 or older and where drinking is allowed in the rooms. Purdue and St. Joseph's 
(continued on page 4) 


~--------~--------~----------------------------~----------------~----------------------­

warld 

briefs 
FT. MEADE, Md. UPI -A young army private who buzzed the White House last February before being forced to land in a hail of gunfire was sentenced Thursday to a year at hard labor and for­feiture of about half his pay. 
VIENTIANE UPI -Members of the Laotian coalition government agreed Thursday to a Sept. 19 release of prisoners of war in Laos, including the last known living U.S. POW of the Indochina war, a government spokesman said. 
GUADALAJARA, Mexico UPI -The Mexican government said Thursday it would refuse to deal with the kidnapers of President Luis Echevarria's 83 year-old father-in-law, but the victim's son took a swipe at "Yankee imperialism" and said the family was waiting to hear the abductors' demands. 
CARACAS UPI -The Third U.N. Sea Law conference ended in deadlock Thursday and the conference president said there was little hope of drafting a new treaty governing the use of the sea at a follow-up spring session in Geneva. 
an campus taday 
friday 
4:30pm -meeting, rugby, organizational, architecture building 7:00,9:00, 11:00 pm-film, cool hand luke, engineering aud. 7:00,9:30,12:00 midnight -film, a man called horse, sponsored by 
twfc, admission $1.00,· members free, kofc bldg. 
saturday 
12:00-9:00 pm-exhibit, "fayeserid-photographs, free, photo gallery smc 6:00,9:00, 12:00 midnight-film, sound of music, $1.00, washington hall 
7:00-9:00 pm-exhibit, sarita levin, visual image, new drawings and printings, free, moreau hall, little theatre, hammes galleries 7:00, 9:30 pm, 12 midnight-film, a man called horse, sponsored by 
k of c, admission $1.00, members free, k ofc bldg. 
sunday 
2:00pm-softball game, basketball team annual event, free, cartier field 7:00, 9:00pm -film, little big man, student union services com­mission, $1.00, engineering aud. 
monday 
7:00pm-activities night, clubs, organization,s, everyone welcome, Iafortune 


PARTY 

Friday Night 8:30 -12:00 
Stoneridge Apartments -Community Building 
on Ironwood just north of the toll road 

TALISMAN formerly the Mark Bloom Bandmusic by and the Crow Brothers Band 
the party will be open to residents of stoneridge and 
campus view. Also invited are residents of S.M.C. and 
Farley, Walsh, B-P, Lyons, and Badin. 
Transportation will be provided for guests from N.D. and 
S.M.C. car pools will leave the circle and from the S.M.C. parking lot between 8:00 and 9:15 and return after 12. Or drive east on Douglas road one mile to Ironwood, then 1;2 mile north to stonebridge. 





Fun upcoming at Carney '74 
by Chris Bock Staff Reporter 

The orientation committee is 
sponsoring "Carney '74" Tuesday, 
September 3 on the South Quad. 
This year's carnival featrures a 
picnic, rock band, game booths 
special speakers, and other fu~ 
and entertainment. 
A picnic opens the carnival in 
front of the North and South dining 
Halls. Music will be provided, as 
well as balloons and clowns. 
Many game booth !S will offer prizes to skillfull participants. Organized by members of the orientation committee, the booth activities include a dart throw frisbee toss, water balloon toss and softball throw. Prizes range from hamburger passes from local drive-ins and free hot fudge sun­daes at Farrell's, to discount passes at Putt-Putt Miniature Golf Course and free River Bend Plaza buttons. 
SMC coffeehouse 
debuts tonight 
The Saint Mary's Friday night coffee house opens tonight featuring a full evening of en­tertainment and refreshments. Located in the basement of the SMC dining hall, it will begin at 9 
p.m. and end at 1 a.m. according to Kathie Carrigan, coffee house coordinator. 
Food specials coordinated by Alice Illig, include Paul Bunyan chocolate chip cookies at ten cents a piece and submariene sand­wiches. 
Joe Knockenkemper opens the evening at 9:00 followed by Sheila Rafferty at 10:00. David Shaheen will play at 11:00 and the show closes with Mindy Bright, Dianne Bennett and Eileen Quinn at 12:00. 
Sound equipment will be managed by Tom Daly, a junior at ND. 
Carrigan welcomes new per­formers. If interested call her at 4386. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh is scheduled to speak along with student body president, Pat McLaughlin on South Quad. 
Broadcasting live from the quad, WSND will announce the winners of the "Name That Tune" contest. Prizes are gift certificates for Gilbert's ranging form $25 for first place to $15 and $10 for second and third places. 
Six hundred co-ex tickets are 

available to SMC students. Off­
campus students and faculty can purchase tickets in the library for one dollar a person. On-campus students need a menal ticket for admission. 
Mary Iden and Mark Grove are co-chairman of "Carney '74". According to Iden, "The Carney is the culmination of our whole orientation program. It isoneof the few events in which the . whole campus can participate. We hope everyone -students, faculty, a(iminsitration and staff, will come and help us clelebrate the opening of the school year." 
WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Deve1oper Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $60. CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189 
CARNEY * * * * ** '74 
GAMES * PRIZES PICNIC * CLOWNS BALLOONS 
SOUTH QUAD 
4:30-DUSK 



STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Presents 



ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
MONDAY SEPTEMBER 2 7:00P.M. LaFortune Student Center 
ALL STUDENTS ARE INVITED 
Friday, Au~ust 30, 1974 the observer 
3 

Mclaughlin criticizes alcohol directive 
Pat Hanifin 
Staff Reporter 

Student Body President Pat McLaughlin criticized the direc­tive on alcohol issued by the Dean of students as being harsh, vague, and autocratic. In a letter dated Aug. 28 to Dean Macheca, McLaughlin stated that the university faces "an extremely sensitive situation, much more complex than that which can be handled in the simplicity of a directive." 
McLaughlin in an interview yesterday reaffirmed his position, calling the maximum $50 fine "too harsh" and the implication that students might be suspended "excessive." He believes that such enforcement will seriously damage communicaions between students and Student Affairs. 
Another danger of the new directive according to the SBP is its open ended ness. "It never really defines what a 'serious violation' is," McLaughlin said, "and this is exactly the problem we had with the parietals and sexuality rules in the Dillon case. There is so much room for dif­ferent enforcement among the halls that people can get hurt without knowing what they are getting into." 
McLaughlin exphasized that he 
thought Macheca had completely 
intentions to hurt the students. 

"Most of the halls will enforce the rules intelligently and not try to interfere with student privacy, but there may be problems in one or two halls because of this vaugeness," McLaughlin stated. 
The SLC should take up the situation and Macheca 's directive at their first meeting Sept. 9 said 
McLaughlin. He criticized Macheca for issuing so sweeping a directive without consulting the SLC or the students first. "Macheca 's authority to issue something so broad is not too clear, but certainly the SLC has the power to review it and they should exer~ize that power soon," he contmued. 
Another issue McLaughlin would like to see reconsidered is the effect of a recent Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission ruling prohibiting alcohol advertising in campus magazines, newspapers and programs. 
The athletic department has reluctantly aagreed to remove such ads from the football programs at considerable expense. 
"There is a question of freedom of the press here that should be looked into here." McLaughlin explained. In his letter to Macheca he asked if the university "must stop certain clubs from selling Budweiser mugs to raise money for their activities? 



New McDonald'S in town. 
52665 U.S. 31 North Roseland Open Daily 7a.m.-llp.m. 
and Special Guest 
Dave Loggins 
Sunday Sept. 15-7:30P.M. 
Athletic and 
Convocation Center

NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Prices: Bleachers •••••••••••$4.80 

MAIL ORDE
Lower Are• ••••••••• $500 Loge •.••••••••••••• S~~ Platfor111 ••••••••.••• SUO Floor Seats •••••••••• StOO 
ONLY 

FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Van Morrison. Send to Van Morrison Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed ·stamped envelope. 
cancel our Muscular Distrophy 
dance marathon since Colt 45 is our 
major sponsor?" 
The student body president also asked Macheca if students over 21 were free to drink in accordance with the old rules.'" "That's my interpretation," McLaughlin said "but the directive is not too clea~ on this point. " 
McLaughlin has investigated the possibility of registering a large percent of the student body so they can vote on the drinking age issue in the primaries. 
However, Senator Birch Bayh advised McLaughlin that such a move might engender bad feelings locallv. 
Prof. Roos has suggested holding off on a registration drive for the primary until students are settled in for the year and student government can check out the stands of the candidates. "The· ones we have talked to," McLaughlin said, "'all seemed favorable to a change in the law. It is the legislators from the southern part of the state who are opposed." 
Prof. Roos will be meeting with local candidates in the next few weeks and a lobbying program may be started when the Legislature meets in January. McLaughlin explained that lob-> hying efforts in the past indicated that student government should not try to work with other schools until it has a definite plan to offer. 

never had liberal regulations"The other schools are less af­because most of the student bodies fected by this ruling since they are 

come from Indiana," said 

not so close to Michigan, and have 
.........iijiill 

ELVIS PRESLEY 
In Concert AT THE ACC Monday September 30 8:30 P.M. OCTOBER 1 CONCERT COMPLETEL 
SOLD OUT! · TICKETS: $10.00, $7.50, $5.00 
LIMIT 2 TICKETS PER PERSON 

IMPORTANT: 
Studmt Tickets-Will Go On Sale Thursday Aug. 29 At Loo P.M. And Only-UntiiFriday Aug. 30.PI 5:00. If Any Tickets Remain At 5:00 Friday, They Wii/Be Used To Fill-Surplu-s 
Mail Orders. 

The brand-newest place there is for good food 

I®

and1fun-McDonald's.Come on in and join the celebration. You deserve a break today® 
Serving breakfast 7a.m. to 11 a.m. 
Id"S 
the observer

Other drinking policies not 
(continued from page 1) 
also permit students of legal age to drink in their rooms. Only Valparaiso prohibits all student drinking on campus, regardless of age. 
All of the schools also em­phasized their respect for the personal privacy of the student, stating that they did not violate the rights of any individual in an effort to enforce the rules. 
Some of the schools said they. would comply with the state ruling if the legal drinking age were lowered, while several said the matter would have to be discussed first. 
Regarding organized efforts to lower the Indiana drinkingage, no action is being taken by any of the 
administrations. Each of the schools however, does have some kind of student effort being organized by their student union or 

Freshman class marks increase in local enrollment 
by Mark Fraze! Staff Reporter 

One outstanding feature characterizes the 1974-75 freshamn class at Notre Dame-there is a substantial increase in the number of students from the state of In­diana and the South Bend area. 
Director of Admissions John F. Goldrick attributes the change to two factors. 
Dr. Goldrick explained, "I think the economic crisis has made a lot of students consider more carefully the advantages of going nearby where they live." 
This fact is mirrored in the number of commuter students which this year stands at 51 in the freshman class. 
"Another important factor 1 "Mr. Goldrick added, "is the freedom of 
Choice Grant for Hoosier State Scholars which the legislature passed only last year." 
This state program pays up to $2,800 to students who qualify, and the money is paid regardless of where in the state the student chooses to go. 
The total · number of students from Indiana is 216, a 40 per cent rise over last year. Only Illinois, the traditional leader with 267 this year has more students among the freshman class. 
Other heavily represented states in the class of '78 include New York 044), Ohio (141), Pennsylvania (134), and New Jersey (112). 
Commenting on this, Mr. Goldrick said, "Usually one-third of our students come form the Midwest, One-third come from New York and the east, and one-

In Eddy St. rumble 
Four ND students assaulted 
Four Notre Dame students were Treated and released from St. attacked and two injured in a Joseph Hospital were Chester scuffle near their home Wed­Scott, who suffered a large gash in oesday night in the 600 block of the back of the head and a possible Eddy Street. 
NO infirmary renovates to improve health services 
by Mary Reher Starr Reporter 

The infirmary has recently renovated its clinic in order to serve the students and 
University personnel more privately and efficiently. 
The walls separating the waiting room from the doctor's office have been soundproofed for personal attention. Also the allergy section is now situated outside the clinic for faster medicine distribution. 
There are now three doctors on duty. Dr. Thompson and Dr. Calvin work full-time and Dr. Sellers will be available part-time. 
Although the doctors themselves limit their hours from 8 a.m. to 4 
p.m. 
the clinic is staffed with nurses and is open from 7 a.m. toll 

p.m. 
Students are advised to have 


Jazz Band 

The Notre Dame Jazz Band will hold open auditions on Sunday, Sept. 1st at 1:30 p.m. in the Holy Cross Annex. 
The NDJB program, under the direction of Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C., includes both big band and combos. The groups present concerts as part of the 
~ "Jazz at Nine" series and par­
l ticipate in the Collegiate Jazz 
f Festival in the spring. 
Openings exist on all in­struments--trumpet, trombone, sax, piano, drums, guitar, string bass and electric bass. Vocalists 
are also welcome to audition. 

Musicians desiring more in­formation can contact Fr. WiskircheR 'M 61illi.''.1' i. JJ '.' '.! ·•
r 
0 .•' , o' o : ,' ., :-,. 0./' ": I·. 0lo • ~ , ,•• ~ ,•.. • ~'"=Ill'~· 0 'o 
their hall rectors callthe infirmary in advance if they are taken ill when it is closed. 
Sister Miriam Dolores, ad­ministrator of the infirmary, asks that students remember to bring their I.D. cards when they need care (emergencies excepted.) This policy will be followed more strictly than last year for "billing purposes and identification." 
third come from the rest of the country." 
Although the final enrollment figures are still forthcoming, the approximate size of the new fresh­man class is 1690 students. 
Of the total, 1317 are men and 378 are women. 
The average freshman SAT scores were 560 verbal and 620 math-a total of 1180. This figure is almost exactly the same as last year's average. In fact, Notre Dame has maintained a steady average in the area over the past seven years while the National average has declined, Goldrick commented. 
80 per cent of thie year's fresh­men ranked in the top fifth of their high school class and a significant 

number placed in the top five-------------------------., 
positions in high school rank. 
skull fracture, and Gerald Gilin­sky, who received several bruises and contusions in the back. Scott is still under observation at the Notre 
Dame Infirmary. Both are enrolled as juniors at the University. 
The incident occurred at ap­proximately 11:30 p.m. as the four students were returning to their house on Eddy Street. They were attacked by several youths who hurled rocks and struck the injured students. 
According to an eyewitness, between 10 and 13 youths were involved in the scuffle ranging in age from 13 to 20. 
No formal criminal charges have ben been filed due to lack of identification. 
NICKlE'S 
OPEN 

11:30A.M.-3:00A.M. 
Daily' Now Featuring CHICKEN DINNERS: % Chicken, French Fries, Roll &: Butter And A Draft For $2.50 
ALSO SERVING HAMBURGER PLATTERS 

YOU Been In Since Remodeling 
Now Five Pool Tables For Neighborhood &: Campus Pool Sharks 
·J--;.-~~~"'-:""'-:""'0,....-;o~-:"'""...-:-.,..,...::-:-::-:-::"""""-:---..,.--~----------.J
/ 
0 0 • ~-• 0 ,: • •. • • • • • 0 • •. • " • • • "• ,: • • • 0 •• ' ° 0
0 0 0 0 0 

student government. 
The strength and importance of the student efforts to get the drinking age lowered differs at 
each college. The dean of students at ball State remarked that "this has high priority in our student government." This was echoed by Dr. Akers of Purdue, who also sees it as an important issue with the students. 
Dean Hughes of St. Joseph's, on the other hand, commented that it was not of major importance right now with the students there. "I do 
altered 
not see it as a key issue," he said. At Valparaiso Dean Shroer stated that "there is almost nothing goingon campus to get the law changed." 
All of the dean remarked that the defeat of the resolution to lower the drinking age by the Indiana legislature several years ago had disillusioned those working towards it. 
Although students plan to be prepared to present their case again in January, the outlook forcasted by the deans is not very hopeful. 

•;./::;~:~~~~:;:;.::::>~r>:?:::·:· ....... ·::. ~~r::::i;~:~:!t~~:-~:~r:<{ :::::: ··:·· · 
• Wltcltev"r.-the Age, : ·····Whatever tht Length, . ·•··• Whatev•r the Foshl01t • • • 
:· MICHAELS. :·::wili.t;J~ri!~;.l ~·li;i:.i~:i!. ... ' 
. ·Hai'!'tyfe to Jult. You ~-0: t,t.. :) s $t;H$t$ .·. \~;,_.. ;.;_,:[ y .... 
• '& Full Time Mariicurist .> 
SUMMER STORAGE PICK-UP 
FRI. 10A.M. -4P .M. SAT. 9A.M.-12 Noon (Final Day) 
• All Trunks & Rectangular Shaped Items Are At Stepan C,enter (Rear Entrance) 
·All Furniture (Couches_, Chairs, etc.) Are In The Old Fieldhouse PLEASE NOTE: ALL ITEMS MUST BE CLEARED FROM THE FIELDHOUSE 
BY SEPTEMBER 1 

HAVE YOU THOUGHT 
~BOUT EXPANDING 
YOUR FUTURE? 

Success in a life choice today demands more than ever the right preparation. Education, of course, is essential. But even though you complete the requirements for a degree, potential em­ployers are searching for individuals who can rapidly ~dvance into the managerial fields. Employers are lookmg for LEADERS, and Army ROTC is one of the ways you can gain this leadership experience. 
Army ROTC offers that "something more" to the college man or woman looking to expand his or her future. 
The total time requirements of ROTC account for little in your academic workload, and no committment is incurred until your Junior year. While you're looking at our program and deciding if we can offer you something, we will be looking at you. If we're both satisfied we can offer each other something, upon graduation you will receive a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Army Reserve. In return, you'll be required to serve on active duty for two years. The training, experience, and ability to manage people will give you that "something more" employers seek. 
Try us--call 283-6264 or 6265, or visit the Army ROTC office in Building No. 5. You'll get the facts. 

-~ --~-~ ~ 
--~-~-~---------------_._..__....._____ 
Fridav, Aunst 30, 1974 the observer 
5 

During Cyprus raid 
Turks stray onto British base 
by Nat Gibson us after the break-off of ference.
they did," one of the soldiers said. 140,000 refugees on Cyprus. 
negotiations that the Americans "On the contrary, the, Soviet
An officer with the United Diplomats said no one hadNicosia UPI -Turkish soldiers Nations peacekeeping force said presented a concrete plan of action and British in Geneva supported Union. asked for the departure of 
accidentally strayed onto a British the takeover of 34 per cent of all foreign troops from the island
the Greek Cypriots in the southern to solve the economic and refugee 
base on Cyprus Thursday during a coastal village fired one shot problems and council members Cypriot land by the Turlts," and for the Cypriots to settle their 
Nickie's f i2,~w~..~=~n~ndes~• ~~-~~~: !***!~!lockssoutholcam**~!**t 
by Dennis Kelly f M'l k b th .,.-• Staff Reporter :~~~esB:o~:~~~~p!~ff:oe~ r::;?~~ ~i!~;~s w~th di~o~~~rl;\o~duct ~rex: L< 'N roIL 1.1 ~e s.t 
Abar roombrawl at Nickie's, 926 debris but neither required and public intoxication. .,.-~ hospital care. The incident began when 
Eddy Street in South Bend, South Bend police arrived at the Madison, Williams, another man ..._ resulted in $300 damage and minor scene about 2 a.m. and arrested 19-and three female companions l.
injury to two St. Mary's College d h ...­
Students. year old Mike Madison of South attempte to enter t e tavern 't without showing proper age in-llf­as student union presents
dentification. When bartender t David Barry tried to stop the ; youths, the melee began. lt

Haig denies staff friction 
Madison was released after signing a waiver, but Williams was : held for trial in St. Joseph County * 

Superior Court. He is free on $100 * SHAN~ N~ WASHINGTON <UPD -White "In terms of my relationship 


bond pending a September 5 court * 

House Chief of Staff Alexander M. with the President, I've been appearance. * special guest: Fresh Flavor Haig said Thursday that he was getting along very well. I see him 
Nickie's owner, Nick Bilello ::

"somewhat appalled" at recurring every morning and I go over with 
reports of friction between the ihim a vast number os substantive listed damage as broken chairs, '* Saturday. Sept. 28. 8:30p.m.remaining staff of former issues. He sets the tone..." windows, and pool cues. 
~~ 

President Richard Nixon and 
President Ford's top assistants. Haig sa d he planned tostay at Candidate Lugar Tickets: $5.50. $4.50. $3.00 t• 
The situation, he said, is the White House for as long as he "precisely the opposite." could serve the President and the 
In an interview with United country. oh campus today ,.. ON SALE: :[ Press Internationak, Haig said "I've been somewha pp led of there has been and reamins a the ripple of dope inside stories to Richard Lugar, mayor of In-* W d d S 4 f 9 5 -tc 
"cooperative spirit" between thz effect that there has been dianapolis and Republican can-: e nes ayI ept. rom to I -tel
I 
didate for senator in Indiana, will

Nixon staffers and Ford staffers. friction and a lack of cooperation * -tc He expressed his "highest regard. between the two staffs during the appear on campus today. , * ACC T" k Off" ( t 10) • 
.. for the group of men Ford has transition period," Haig said. "It Lugar will have a news con-Jil-lC et ICe. ga e -tc 
aroun him." is precisely the opposite." As for ferenceat3p.m.intheLawSchool ~ d Student Union Ticket Office ~ "What we're dealing with today Ford, Haig said, "in my humble 
Lounge . The news conference wil, * an • is a great deal of mythology," he perspective, the President was off be followed by an i~for~al * (LaFortune Student Center). -tc question and answer sess10n w1th * -tc
said. "I don't suffer from in­and running from the moment hge security pangs." stepped into office." 
st~f~~~dents ~~****************************~·
are invited. 

WELCOME 
N.D. & ST. MARY'S
NEW &: OLD MEMBERS 
.~,~'·. ~ TAE KWON DO CLUB
7..1.·. ,.

< ~,~ 


\)))\ . ><. THANK YOU SO l~l~ 
\~\~: MUCH FOR YOUR GREAT CONCERN ABOUT THE N.D. & ST. MARY'STAEDWONDOCLUB .j~j~ 
~~~~: DURING ACTIVITIES DAY. I HOPE THAT YOU COME 'fO THE NEXT ACTIVITIES DAy SEPT.~~: ::::: 2 AT LA FORTUNE STUDENT CENTERFROM 7 p.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. WE WILL HAVE OUR~::: :::~ BEST DEMONSTRATION FOR YOU. ~::: 
I . I
:::: MEDITATION, SPIRITUAL INSTRUCTUON I TEACH THE MOST ADVANCED AUTHENTIC KOREAN KARATE TOGETHER WITH ,t:: :::: PERSONAL INSTRUCTION, CARE FOR BEGINNERS PROFOUND ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY. OUR CLUB IS AFFILIATED WITH THE FOLLOWINd;:: 
:;:; BREAK tECHNIQUES, WEAPONS ORGANIZATIONS: :::: 
DONG SIK KIM (Master Instructor) KOREA TAEKWONDO ASSOCIATION 
1. 6th DEGREE BLACK BELT IN TAE-KWON-Do 
UNITED TAEKWONDO FEDERATION 
2. 4th DEGREE BLACK BELT IN HAPKI-Do 
PAN-AMERICAN MOO DUK 
EASY~FUN~SAFE.CO-ED 
raid in which they captured three 
during the raid, wounding a were divided on how to negotiate a
Greek Cypriots but quickly backed 
Turkish soldier in the leg. Then peace between Greece, Turkey and 
off when they found themselves 
most fled to the safety of the base. the Cypriots.
facing British tanks. 
He said the Turks took eight men In Athens, Ezekias Papaioan­

British troops said the Turkish 
prisoner Wednesday and three nou, secretary general of the
forces, part of the contingent that 
more Thursday before pulling Cyprus Communist party, said the 
invaded the small village of Athna 
back to their lines. Geneva negotiations on Cyprus
Wednesday night, chased fleeing 
In New York, U.N. Security failed because Britain and the

Greek Cypriots onto the base area 
Council called an afternoon United States backed a Turkish
at Dhekelia and set up a road­
meeting at the request of Cypriot demand for control of 34 per cent of
block on a British controlled road. 
Ambassador Zenon Rossides to Cypriot territory. 
"A British sergeant major 
dis~uss the plight of more than "President Glafkos Clerides told 
politely told them to get off and 
Papaioannou told a news con-problems by themselves," he said. 
we come new stu ents to 
LOUIE'S BAR 
beer prices unchanged from last year... great pizza & sandwiches come visit us on notre dame ave 
,.,. I'LL TEACH ALL CLASSES STARTING ON SEPT. 4,1974 AT THE A.C.C. WRESTLING' ROOM ••..,
:~;~ DEFEND YOURSELF IN EMERGENCY SITUATIONS ANDEVERYFOLOWINGMON.,WED.,&FRI., ALONGWITHMYTRAINEDASSISTANTS. ~* :;:: NOW IS THE BEST TIME IN YOUR LIFE TO LEARN :~ 
:::: P.S. DEMONSTRATION ON SEPT. 2 (Monday). ~~:
1CONTACT ~!~~w· ~~;.~:~ c:P~':I'~ 1 
:~:~ Head Instructor :=~ 
i;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

-----------------~-~------------­
THE OBSERVER 
As we begin again
AN INDEPENDENT STUDFNT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  NEWS:  283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471  
·  Tom Drape  '  
Editor-in-Chief  
AnnMcCarry Editorial Editor  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  
Bob Zogas Business Man~ger  Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob McManus Advertising Manager  

Friday, August 30, 1974 

Misdirected directive 
Unless each student in this University grasps an immediate, serious, thoughtful awareness about drinking on this cam­pus, what little social existence remains will perish.
Two recent Indiana Court decisions have forced a destruction of the responsible approach toward the use of alcohol developed in the past year through the efforts of the Office of Student Affairs and the Student Life Council. In a directive issued Wednesday Dean of Students John Macheca stated that the only recourse the Univerisyt has is to obey state law and, therefore, en­force it. 
This directive is more a threat than a prohibitive measure. 
Macheca designated that the University would punish an underage student found consuming. alcohol on campus with either a $50 fine, exile form the campus community or expulsion from the University altogether. 
To en act these policies will neither 
improve the situation nor will it catalyze 
an improvement or solution. Rather, 
their enforcement will impede the growth 
and development of a mature ·and 
responsible attitude towards the use of 
alcohol. 

A meeting betweeen all student leaders 
acting as representatives of the student 
body, the Office of Student Affairs, the 
University Counsel and the University 
president must be immediately 
arranged. If conducted honsetly and 
openly such a meeting would create a 
forum for an invaluable exchange of 
information, and provide an opportunity 
for an expression of trust and discussion 
of alternative considerations of the 
problem and its solution with any con­
cerned member of the community. 
Total cooperation with the Notre Dame community. must be maintained if a solution to the drinking problem is to be ahcieved. The students, staff and ad­ministration must work together in faith and trust to affect a workable discipline. 
If not, an explosion of attitudes and actions is inevitable. 
American culture, which the state of Indiana seems to be alien toward, can and has accomodated the use of alcohol. The abuse of alcohol is a human failure. Abuse is not exclusively prevented by restriction and regulation, however. Last year's on~campus parties managed under responsible guidelines, were beginning to work. One needs only to witness the Flanner party at Stepan 'Center and other hall parties in the LaFortune Rathskellar. 
But the Brattain v. Terron decision by the Indiana Court of Appeals last April and then the Reeves decision in August, for all purposes, destroyed the guidelines which governed these parties. Essen­tially, the decisions have made the University directly liable for any damanges or injuries incurred by an underage student under the influence of alcohol within a situation of which any official of the University is aware. 
Notre Dame does have a responsibility 
to the stateand us as well. For now, the 
law stands. But in our own University 
community, let's have students and 
administrators meet and talk par­
ticularly with regard to enforcing the 
Dean's latest directive. 

Possibilities still remain for student 
participation in state elelctions in 
November and a student lobby in the 
state legislature when it resumes in 
January. 

Until then, equitable judgement by the 
students and staff dictate enforcement. 
Tom Drape 

DOONESBURY 

These are some thoughts over the summer that gave me cause for genuine gratitude; and enthusiasm (in anticipation) for walking the paths of this place with all of you this year. 
IIHIIIftlmiiiiHIIIIIIIIInm.IIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIHHIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIHIUIIIIIIIIIIIItiiHIUUIIIII. 
by Garry Trudeau ~the observer.;;:=~;;;;;;;;;;;;== 
IJtiTfU()(Jl/JN'T A GI?EMt.IN HAVE BEEN 
MOR£ S&NSIBU? 
\ 
----fr. bill taahey~ 
I was reflecting over the (too short) summer on how much we have been hearing lately about value-{)riented education at Notre Dame. This is goo~; especially when it goes beyond just a lot of t~lk: It seems that It does here at ND. The emphasis on dormitory ~Ife IS merely one example, but it is a crucial one. The continuing ImJ?rovement of hall staffs (from Rector to R.A.) is one good sign, I believe , that Notre Dame is demonstrating that it is interested in far m~re than how-to-do-it techniques, or an exclusive con­centration on mtellectual competence. It is concerned with the total education of young men and women which includes as top priority, opportunities in and out of the cl~ssroom to learn' how to become a more fully human person. 
If we learned anything this past summeras the Watergate mess careened to its tragic conclusion, it was that there were many men who may have been in some ways " the best and the brightest " but who ~ere tragically short on va~ues. Events like this have helped to stimul;Jte all of us to rededicate ourselves to an educational pro~ram that adequately assists students in their pursuit of en­durmg human goals, with the recognition that "integral personal g~owth, _even growt~ in_ grace and the spiritual life, is not possible without mtegral sociallJfe," as the American bishops put it in their recent pastoral message. 
These thoughts highlight for me the importance of a recent conversation I had with a good friend who has been 
wo~king with students at Purdue for twelve' years. We were talking about dorm parties and drinking regulations. He informed me that no drinking whatsoever is allowed on the Purdue campus. After I recovered from the shock, he continued: "In a way, this presents no problem. At least it doesn't if you don't care much about providingcommunityexperiences in the dorms. Because of the ~inking ban, numerous drinking facilities have sprung up in t~e Immediate off-campus vicinity. And the underage students either frequent the bars with falsified I'D's., or go to student apartments off campus." 
Then he offered a very perceptive observation. "It seems to me there is a significant difference between Purdue and Notre Dame. We don't have the concept of dorm-life that you do; in other words Purdue doesn't feel anything is lost if· students leave the halls fo; their social life. But at N.D., as I understand it part of the very rationale for hall life is that there be every effort to establish community, that much of the extra-classroom activities be cen­tered in the dorms, that education in things like a responsible use of alcohol happen there, under the guidance of the hall staffs." . These comments from an outsider helped reaffirm for me the Importance of some of the things we're trying to do here. Notre Dame has a long way to go in the area of value-centered education admittedly. But at least we seem to be committed to make th~ necessary efforts to make it more possible for a graduate of this place to become equipped to understand and to deal with the per­sonal problems and public issues of our time. 
At_the same time, h~wever, we need perhaps to more realistically adjust our expectatiOns. For example, analysis of the recent research by William N McCready leaves little doubt that the most important predictor of religious performance of children is the religious behavior of their parent (and particularly their fathers) and the quality of the relationship between their mothers and fa~ers. W~at _g_oes on in the family environment thus predeter­mmes to a stgmficant degree what can be achieved by any school. !~d~, a_s Dr. Earl McGrath, of the Lilly Endowment, points out: 
The hmtted research that has been done shows that typically over t~e ~our-year co_llege period, students' value systems, basic con­VIctions and the1r affective behavior patterns do not change sub­stantially." 
Nevertheless, it seems extremely important to add that there is a_Iso evidence that where such changes in values, beliefs and at­titudes odo occur they often result from precisely the kind of extra­classroom experiences Notre Dame is endeavoring to promote in its general life style. 
We h~ve good reason to be encouraged by this. But there is somethmg more. We also should rejoice in the fact that the im­portance of family environment so often works in our favor. In oth~r ':Vords, the fact that the Notre Dame experience has been so ennchmg for so many follows fromthenumerous instances when the way has been prepared by creative family experiences. Con­sequently, the great number of truly beautiful people who graduate from this place become a tribute, not only to Notre Dame ? (and all t~at happens here), but also to the caring people who touched their hves long before they ever arrived here. 
Morning Editor: Bill Brink 
Asst. Morning Editor: Al Rutherford 
Layout: Dan Sanchez, Mary Reher 
Maggie Waldman, Tim Barrick, Mary
Janca, Katie Kerwin 
Editorials: Ken Gorov ard, Ann 
McCarrySpm-ts: Greg Cor§ an 
Pictures: Albert DAntonio 
Copy Readers: Jim Eder, Jeannue 
Mw-phyFeatures: Robert Baker 
T_ypists: Barb Norcross, Karen Hinks 
&wa~Hille ' M«rnlng Controller: Howard Halle 
Headlbles: Andy Bury, Marlene Zloza AI rutherford ' VIsitors: Pat Casey, Rick Van Bever an 
Sound Z's: Tom Drape · · · · ­


a Retreat. See Our Lady as she has 

There is much furious agitation 
seemed over centuries to men and

by minority groups and radical 
women -Mediatrix, Consolation,

women aboat "discrimination"
P.O. Box Q 
and Queen.

which they feel they suffer. It is 
Even my own Church honors

time that they recognize their 
her, in great and famous churh­

outcasts state is owing not to 
ches. It is not becoming in you and 

religion, race or sex, but simply to 
your friends to mock; the mockery 

Dear Editor: am much disenchanted to see that origin has esteemed women, the fact that they have chosen to 
turns on you.

allowed them great scope, and has defy normal western society, the
The utter contempt in which the those for whom I have helped 
End of quote.

average American woman is held unlock the doors of opportunity adorned Christendom with its most homemakers are the arbiters of have chosen to accept every ad­noble architecture in honor of Our .who is socially accepted. Those
by the proponents of the fraudulent Sincerely, 
vantage (and demand more), and Lady, Saints, martyrs, benefac-who choose not to conform to
Equal Rights Amendment, in­Mrs. John R. Fawcett, Jr. 
tors, and authors. Consult the New social standards must not blame
cluding the Nixon and Ford Ad­defy every discipline. 
,As an Episcopalian, I am ab­York telephone director (yellow their exclusion on 1HIIIIIUI-.oJII'••••nmu~mnna
ministrations, is insulting beyond 
solutely horror-struck to learn(in pages) under "Churches: Roman "discrimination." They exclude
belief, but they are even more We welcome your comments,
Pro-Ecclesia) of your magazine's Catholic." COUNT THE WOMEN themselves.
insulting to the woman of Roman criticisms, and reactions to
published remarks on the Blessed WHO ARD HERE Have you ever read any of G.K. 
Catholic Faith. anything printed in The Observer
Virgin Mary. America's multitude ENUMERATED: GO AND VISIT Chesterton's witty, brilliant,
Gloria Steinem, President of Ms. or to any facet of life here at Notre 
Magazine, is one of the leading of religions have made in a basic THE BUILDINGS WHICH BEAR delightful essays written prior to Dame. If you want to expound at spokesmen for the so-called Equal matter of propriety that no person THEIR NAMES: churches, of and after his conversion to the greater length, we offer columnof breeding is critical in public of course, schools, hospitals, nursing Roman Catholic Church? They
Rights Amendment. The following space on our editorial page as well. 
letter to Gloria Steinem, from Mrs. anyone's religion; your homes,. orphanages. I How ex-should seem to you, mored as you 
Please type or write letters 

J.B. Patton of Bloomington, In­magazine's remarks (by traordmary to criticize this are in the Freudian slough, like a 
legibly and address them to: 

diana, was reprinted in the August, whomever written) place every Church! No other institution has rescue from despair. How can 
Letters to the Editor 

1974 issue of pro ecclesia: person on its staff outside social done so much for women. It honors women continue to let the foul 
P.O. Box Q

acceptability. both maternity and chastity. Freudian heresies allure them 
Notre Dame, IN. 46556 

It is odd, one might remark Perhaps this is the clue: libs honor from the beautiful, emancipating
My dear Miss Steinem, or drop them off in our office on
parenthetically, to see women who neither. Are you happier, more ideal which tempt one upwards ..
As a pre-WWII liberal, a the third floor of LaFortune. All 
member of the National Council of rail aggainst the lack of ap­useful, more beloved, for defying toward the joys of virtue, and 
letters must be signed. Names will 

Jews and •Christians (then so preciation, through history, of the . deeply -felt instincts of which bring solace and hyealing 
be withheld upon request. VVe 

named) and other rather daring women, here attacking the one Amencans? ·and courage instead of disgust, 
reserve editorial proviledges. 

organizations (for those times), I organization which from its Divine shame, spite, envy, and rage? Try 

the observer

Frida 
7 
on the edge of the (pukka-pukka honda-generator) bicycle tripl 
Editor's note: Rich Harrington is on the last leg of a I think that the Hindoos never really people heroes that fill two­powerful "folk" of America and the casket 
considered the fact that once they decided 

bicycle trip from Chicago to Seattle, dimensioned pages when we refuse we used was the country they loved. I think Washington, and back again. Over the to tie all of consilciousness together (you are to read deeper into their RAW that we must have replaced it with out course of the trip he has sent back letters one with the universe!) the intimately third dimension of life. Hanna-Barbera David Bowie Evel Knievel filled with love frustration, ·serenity, and a connected my existence with things such as Las Vegas Gleaming Shining Sea to Shiningspecial kind of heightened sesitivity that taco chips, winnebagos, flat tires, turds, Sea God Damn What Have We Dont to our
silent light switches, and fire plugs, I

comes from taking to the road. land type of surface beauty. Consciousness
We've refined "folk". refined "rawness", adamantly refuse to connect voluntarily one 
This letter came with a pamphlet like a Hollywood western set where there
refined life down to it's bare minimums.
describing the qualities of the Honda E 900 iota of my being with that of Leonid are no building behind thz facades.
We've paved over all the bumpy gravelBrezhnevr, David Bowie, Richard 'tough it
generator. He will probably be somewhat It's a shame.
roads and we've smoothed over the sharp
unhappy with the publication of the letter, out' Nixon, or '''Okies". Henrr Da":id Thoreau ~elt the same thing
edge8 of life-the dream of our fathers andAnd the same goes for things like Honda­
but that risk is worth the value of sharing about h1s soc1ety, much Simpler and pioneer 
depression-filled grandfathers before themGenerator-Powered wilderness TV's or
what he has to say here. and "folk" from our own viewpoint, and was
has come true-we have thz things they
Hannah-Barbera cartoons . I'm glad so shaken that he did Walden and found a bit

Fred Graver never had and we wander roads of America 
I'm an Amrican and only becme involved of peace.

looking for the rawness of life while floating with the things I pay for, rather than being The same think will be true I guess of ouron General Motors Ford Chryler shockchained to zaniness like ten-ton trucks or 
children's children's children as they

absorbers of layers upon layers of sim­Evel Kneivel, like them Hindoos want me to wonder where the "simplicity" of our lifeplicity and ease and
Dear Fred-believe. 
pukka-pukka Honda-generator TV's in theWell , here I am again, the start of the end, God Bless the mountains! 

wilderness went. That's, as they say, life. 

etc. God Bless the stores! NO PAIN OR WORK! 
Maybe I'm bitter or I'm crazy but I'mFound the Honda thing when I was in a God Bless the cities! 

sure that even doint this trip is a joke -a sad"back to nature" mood, and bought six of With five-and-ten-cent stores! 

andnmean joke -a prank (in the Watergate­

them so I could run my stereo and eleven American "folk" song Th~ "folk" of America, the hard people, gordon Liddy sense of the word( when it'stv's. 
the piOneers, the John Muir Sal Paradise 
linked to the name of America. I don't 

I wonder where the "folk" of America involved people all look on teary-eyed 
know. I'm seeing the country and at times have gone. Perhaps they were blown away probably from their graves under the high­feeling the country but I know that I'm in­
in the dust bowl! of the thirties, leaving ways of our country. We've buried their
"POWAH PACKAGE!!!" "YOWSA!" sulated -much like Thoreau felt he was 
behind abandoned fords and broken shacks spirit along with their bodies under layers of 
before he did VValden. 

and wounded memories like Woody Guthrie ease and boredom and steel and concrete to sing to them and die of Hutchinson's and shining glass andnaluminum frame and 
I'm back in Yellowstone Park with my Life.
Korea. Is that true?. Or were the "folk" rip-stop nylon goose down coleman lantern 
bike fixed and I'm ready to move on into 
killed in World War II, transformed into pukka-pukka Honda Generators in the
Montana. Should be neat. "Plenty of miles 
"hoppers" and "beatniks" and finally widerness.

where these came from." Off to seek the 
"hippies", or marched down Broadway in So I guess that to cruise the blacktop-steel wizard. 
·black suits and ties on Thanksgiving, a~d coleman America to try to find the YOGI BEAR SONG carrying balloons of "Bullwinkle" and piOneer and work "folk" America was a big "Donald Duck"? and heartbreaking mistak. VVe may not be 
Yogi bear is smarter than the average I know that no "folk" survived the cold "one with the universe" but goddamn bearYogi bear is always in the ranger's war scare communist infested fifties, no Fred, I've sure discovered that this on~ hair. At a picnic table you eill find hem "folk" lasted into the Bay of Pigs, thing is true: 
We Are what we are, to try to relate to an

there (Great line -sounds like it should be Assasination prone pro football sixties and spoken by a 75 year old German -American none are here in the back stab rock and roll unt,imely-buried past i~ very sad-farmer) Gobbling up more goodies than the hootchie koo watergate-nixon seventies. I ve found my happiest moments on this 
trip lie somewhere between that past andaverage bear. He will sleep till noon, but Where did they go? Who writes "folk" my steel and concrete and rock and roll

before it's dark, he'll have every picnnc songs? Bob Dylan? John Prine? Merle 
Haggard-Johnny Cash -New Grand Old reality present -the times when I've seenbasket that's in Jellystone park. Yogi bear the contintuity of the change of America
is alwayss in the ranger's hair That's Opry -Country Charlie Pride? Big Bill 
Broonzy? Leadbelly? Where have they all , from "folk" to coleman and pukka-pukka. 
because he's smarter than the average ·So it goes.
bear. <High -Powered brass finish -dat da gone? da, da da du.) There are no "folk" heroes or songs 
anymore -no "Black Snake _Moan", no Son I guess this is another letter of "changes" House, no Charley Patterson -we've written much in the style andnwith thai grown up as a nation. Outgrown "folk". spirit, as one part of my life melts into 
Memories of a Honda-generator-powered The wilderness is splintered by pukka­'another. 
T.V. childhood. I think that the ultimate zoo pukka Honda fucltin' generators winnebago . This trip-the bicycle trip-is just about over would be to be in Yellowstone Park camping powered Powered TV'S and Yogi Bear and rator I and I sadly watch_it's joy.fades into senility out watching Yogi bear cartoons on your Evel Knievel. They all fight for air space and The Honda gene _ · and I long for home agam. Honda-generator-powered TV. Really the savage innocence of Jack Kerouac's and "natural", if you know what I mean. What Studs Terkel's on-the-road people . : ·· 
Praise the Lord for freeze-dried! Thank God for changes:could be more natural than having all the is smothered in down-filled backpacks and Praise the Lord for Oobile homes! Praise the Lord for Beauty;comforts of home light years into the folding camp sawa and high speed drills as a Praise the Lord for Pneumatic shocks! God Bless my life;wilderness? I mean, for eighty-two pounds new nation of children takes to the Praise the Lord for Asphalt! Here we are again , the start of the end.
(dry weight) how can you lose? 
road having leanred Evelyn 

Wood's speed reading method and I feel cut off fro the rawness and life Thank God for the Japanese!! skimming the literatue of pain and beneath the "spirit of America" beneath the Love, Thank God for the hydrogen bomb armed with rock and roll and-or highways and KOA kampgrounds and Friendship, 
Thank God for Hanna-Barbera! the "new consciousness'. We layers of Down insulation and I'm afraid th­Rich Thank God for McDonald's!!! emulate the heroes, "folk heroes", wt we've truly buried the pioneer raw tough 
i I 
l 
•
• 
~ 
•
• 
~ 
4 
•~ •
4 
I 
•
•
•4 •
I 
•
•
• 
..... 

For ND-SMC volunteers 
New blood . drive set up 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

Thanks to the blood donated by Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, an SMC power plant employee, injured at work last spring, is alive. Through student blood donations the ND-SMC Blood Council expects to save more lives this year. 
According to chairmen Robin Heisler and John Famula the council has set up a new program whereby student volunteers will donate blood on a rotating hall system twice weekly throughout the year at the Central Blood Bank downtown. The blood mobiles which frequented the campus in the past will therefore no longer be used. 
"Notre Dame and St. Mary's are part of the South Bend community, we (students) can serve that community with a continuous supply of blood," explained Heisler. 
Famula added that when the two schools resumed classes the need for blood and blood donors in­creased. 
The council's new program is in response to the American Association of Blood Banks' an­nouncement that all banks in the association must be converted to 100 per cent volunteer donors by 1975. 
"There will be no paid donors. This will greatly reduce the risk of infection from blood transfusions," stated Famula, "but the need for volunteer donors is increased . " 
The Council will sponsor a recruitment from Sept. 15 through Sept. 22 in all dining halls and dorms. 
The council needs drivers to 
provide transportation between the campuses and blood bank on Tuesdays and Thursdays, as well as volunteers from each hall for recruitment, publicity and organization, Heisler added. 
"The council has been organized," she explained, "so that worker's time will be minimal. For example, each hall will only be asked to work on the blood drive once during the semester.'' 
Anyone interested in volun­
tering is as~ed to sign up Monday, Sept. 2, durmg Activites Night in LaFortune, or to call John 
Famula (3898)1 or Robin Heisler (4632). 

Truesdell named alumni assistant 
by Tom O'Neill Staff Reporter The appointment of Timothy L. Truesdell as an assistant airector of the University's Alumni Association has been announced by Dr. James W. Frick, vice president for public relations and develop­ment at Notre Dame. Truesdell is 
a 1974 graduate of the University. The June resignation of James Cooney, executive director of the NDAA since 1967, and the sub­sequent resignation of Mike Jor­
dan, assistant director has called for new staff appointments. 
As assistant director, Truesdell will specialize in writing for alumni publications and the production of audio-visual programs distributed to many of the 175 Notre Dame Alumni Clubs across the nation. 
One audio-visual program, using film, slides, movies, the University Glee Club, faculty• and students, will be shown· to visitors during 
football weekends. 

As leaders and liaison 
Boy Scouts need student volunteers 
The area council for the Boys Scouts of America needs Notre Dame and SIMary'sstudents to aid local scout troop programs in underprivileged areas. 
Volunteers are needed as leaders 
~~~~~b.~~~~ 
leaders, and as liaison between the local scout troops and the area council. In the last several years 
Last year we had around 25 or 

TheAirForceROTC 
Notre  Dame  and  St.  Mary's  
students have  served in similar  
capacities.  

CollegeProgramhas 3 things to offer that other coUege programs don't. 
1. 
Scholarships. 

2. 
$100 monthly allowance. 

3. 
Flying lessons leading to jet training. 


Enroll inAirForce ROTC.
,.. 
Contact Captain Shepherd 
At BuDding 5 No. 6634 
• 
I UT IT ALL TOGETHER IN AIR FORCE ROTC 
26," said Charlie Lucy, local scout coordinator. 
"We'd like to have kids with scouting experience but we have a training program," he added. 
The student volunteers would work among poverty areas of the 
So~B~a~.&thL~~ 
Wayne Hall, another local scout coordinator, cited the need for minority volunteers. 
"If we can set some Spanish­speaking students," said Hall, "that will really help us out in a couple of areas." 
A native of Niles, Michigan, Truesdell attended the University of Missouri's Journalism School for one year before transferring to ND as an American Studies major. 
His writings have been printed in the Notre Dame Magazine, Public Relations Handbook, the Observer and student publications .of the University of Missouri. 
Truesdell is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Truesdell, Niles. He is presently residing at 4330 Queens Row, South Bend. 




,g~I~rl:s~n:o:w~,~H:a~ll~a:d:d:e:d~-----~==~~===========~========~
r 

LAST CHANCE 
RENT A STUDENT UNION REFRIGERATOR! 
5 cu. ft. $55 per year 3 cu. ft. $45 per year 
Come to the lieldhouse today or Saturday from 12:00 -4:00p.m. 
or CALL BRAD 8360 
Meets All University Regulations
• 
Lucy emphasiZed _that women as well as men are an Important part of the Boy Scout volunteer program. "T~e s~outs can work JUSt as _well With girls. Th,~y can work With the cub packs, 
. "The E~florer clubs are open to 

SUNDAY MASSES 
(MAIN CHURCH) 

5:15 pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin 
9:30 am Sun. Fr. George Wiskirchen 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
12:15 pm Sun Fr. Bill Toohey 


CollegeMaster from 
Fidelitv Union Life has oc-cn the most acceptl~ 
most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegeM aster'· 
Field Associate 
m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 


Editor's Note: With this column Fr. Robert Griffin begins a fifth year as an Observer columnist. Griff as he is usually known, and his spaniel, Darby O'Gill are much loved members of Notre Dame. 
There are certain restaurants in New York City that should be avoided if you are going to say goodbye to someone you love very much. If you eat dinner there, the meal at first may be merely pleasant as skyscraper restaurants are always pleasant when Manahttan is viewed from a forty­third floor. But as darkness falls over Central Park and the Hudson River, and the streets and bridges of the borough become silhouetted with light, then the view becomes that of a night kingdom filled with magic; and diners learn the mood of poetsfed on visions in the Milky Way. Goodbyes are tearful enough; but after candle-glow on a moonlit roof, you separate with sadness even from strangers met in elevators. For those already romantic, the scene is like an invitation from a violin turning a farewell supper into a tryst shared by lovers who have other vows to keep. 
Goodbyes cannot be said on moon-drenched roofs in Manhattan without oaths being sworn which will be perjured in the morning. Those who fall in love with the City (or in the City) should avoid her en­chantments at midnight, if they have commitments to keep at the end of summer for which they need the allegiance of an undivided heart. 
: 16 Cradlesong
• 
17 West Indies 

• 
islands 


; 18 They: Fr. e 19 Leprechaun• 21 Men 
; 22 Asserts 
• 23 Excited 
• 25 Detroit team ; 27 Discontinue 
e 31 Capacity of a
• 
certain 

• 
container: Abbr. : 34 Turnpike 

• 
35 Ms. Dallas ; 36 Similar • 38 Messenger

• 
39 Tomorrow: Sp.

• 
40 Calendar abbr. : 41 16th cent. date: 

• 
Rom. • 42 To~s • 43 Trap 

• 
45 Newspaper size

• 
47. Author }liinte:t­


: 51 Antiquity: 
• Archaic • : •
; 
: 
• 
: 
• · : • : • ; • : : • 
; 
• 
• 
; 
: 
• 
: 
• . ; 
• 
: 
So with Manhattan as poignant to memory as the remembrance of a lassie that was lately lost, one like myself returns to this campus where faith and priesthood are nourished. Now, this autumn, one's favorite cocker spaniel, Master Darby O'Gill, has the responsibilities of a new status: that of chief pet to the University Chaplain. The question in his mind is: can a dog ap­proaching middle age find as much hap-them. If that happens, it will be our disappointment, and we will have to figure out what to do with ourselves as useless ornaments requiring re-cycling or needing to be thrown away. In the meantime, let our initial program be this: to invite the im­mediate world to knock on our door, and to be sensitive to, and gentle with, the situation of every person kind enough to require our · ministry and friendship. 

as a help and a ministry to growth and healing 
piness as an ancillary to the campus con­forter (University Chaplains tend to be pretentious in their claims) as he did when he a was a playboy consorting with squirrels, operating out of the Rector's digs. at Keenan? 
I say to him: Darby dear, neither of us at this moment much knows what is expected of him. We understood the duties belonging to us when we were a rector and his pup, andnwe never minded handing out light bulbs and quelling water fights among the Freshmen. But now both of us -me as Chaplain and you as aide-de-camp-belong as much to Farley and Dillon as we do to Keenan. Maybe Farley and Dillon and Keenan ·don't need us as much as we need 

i• DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE i• 
• Copr. '74 Gen'l Features Corp. • 
; ACROSS 54 Out-of-the-way 15 Ambassadors, : • 1 Clown places etc.: Fr. abbr. • : 4 Four-poster 55 Friend in Latin 20 Message • 
• 7 Eater Jack America 23 Greek market : 
• 12 Oriental hero 56 Scene of Bernad-place • 
• 14 Of earthenware ette's vision 24 Pronghorn • 
58 Hired transport 26 Firm and rigor-: 60 French play-ous • wright 28 Moslem teacher • 61 Do a take-off 29 Winter vehicle : 62 Trudges 30 Noble • 63 Aurora 31 Jolt • 64 Elec. unit 32 -B'rith : 33 Rave!ings • DOWN 35 Hale, well • 1 Part of Great 37 Actuality : 
Britain 38 Author Agatha •

2 Part of a bird's 40 Commandeered • wing 43 Oppressive • 3 Scottish hunting 44 Give back ; guide 46 People of Trans-• 4 Sounds from the vaal • fold 48 Wakefield .•
5 Subside resident • 6 Idle fancy 49 5% point type • 7 Crystal gazers 50 Swedish inventor ; 8 Office of Paris 51 Campus tree • · 
police chief 52 More or ·less • 

9 Inexperienced c1"rcular figure • 10 Oriental servant 53 Uninteresting •
11 Grow sleepy 55 1941 alliance •
13 Hallowed 57 River: Sp; .• 
14 Santa -59 I love: Lat. • • ; 
I• 
: • ; • : • ; • : • ; 
1 ; • 
• • : : • : • : • : 

During the summer, I was a parish priest at St. Joseph's Church on the Avenue of the Americas (Sixth Avenue.) in Greenwich Village. Sometimes in the afternoons and evenings, I would sit outside the rectory as a kind of sidewalk minister to the street crowds that passed by. It was a humble kind of apostolate: sharing coins and cigarettes with derelicts, cheering up old ladies whose cats were sick, giving away an overcoat or a pair of shoes, discussing theology with some hippies stoned on pot. A fewJimes I was bad-mouthed or spit at. But I ·[earned once again something I have always known: it is not possible to force one's 
goodwill on anybody, either on campuses or on Sixth Avenue. 
Staff appointments to· University Chaplaincies do not give me a function or an importance at this school. I have a place here only if my love, my experience or my wisdom or presence can be useful to your needs. Sometimes you may find that your love, your experience, or your wisdom or your presence are ministering to me. For a long time now, I have been praying for you. 
In that parish church of Greenwich Village, at Masses said in the drowsy heat of noonday or the late afternoon, I have asked God for the opportunity of service, and I have committed myself to the practice of fidelity to the people for whom I feel a responsibility as the University Chaplain of 
·Notre Dame: to provosts and presidents, to coaches and comptrollers, to anarchists and archivists, to students, secretaries, and septuagenarians; to faculty and factotums, to Community and the cherubim who watch over the place, quick-eyed with love. 
Here is my City, more enchanted than the night kingdom e.._ the Hudson when the lights and the darkness play games together. The months ahead are uncertain for a man and his dog who offer their fraility as a help and a ministry to the growth and healing needed by a University community. 
But whether we are noticed or neglected, remembered or forgotten, just observe this, Notre Dame: Darby and I never said we didn't love you. 


the true fest of a man 
"Belief is easy: it is the placing of belief into action which is the true test of a man.'' Powerful words from a man whose life of 
service to his brother proved to a cynical world the viability of a Christian approach to eradicate poverty, ignorance, and in­justice. 
His memory enshrined in the Grotto as 1 h d th · 
we I as in t e Stu ent Center, e m­spirational example of Tom Dooley remains strong at Notre Dame, reflected by the work of CILA-Council for the International Lay Apostolate. 
CILA was founded in 1960 by a group of 
Notre Dame students who had a deeply rooted belief that there was a desire in many of their fellow students tc;> do something useful and important for those less for­tunate than themselves. The first two years were growing years, aimed at internal organization and planning. The third year found 16 people headed for summer projects in the Mexican villages of Aguascalientes and Tacambaro, as well as eight bound for Peru. Since 1963 CILA has sent Notr.~ Dame and St. Mary's students throughout the Western Hemisphere. The main focus of CILA is the summer projects. Usually of an eight week duration, the student teams work wherever they are needed. Whether it is in a barrio in South America or on East 100th Street in Harlem, members bring th~ir faith in man and a sincere desire to participate in meaningful social action. Summer projects are a learning experience as 1wel} providing members with first hand knowledge of the problems confronting peoples of the Third World. Project volunteers are selected out of the CILA membership ranks. Much time is spent in organizing projects, and in­terviewning and choosing capable people to participate. In additon, educational programs are designed for each project, a 
:. . , , . . . . , . , , . ~··, ,.· . . , . , , .• , , , . . ,, ... .: .. ~ec~s~ity if the gr?~J?S are. to be ef­
by rich mole 
are utilized, whether they . be professors lecturing on their respective specialties, accredited courses 
· · 
m Spamsh (staffed and taught by CILA ­members) or mimeographed 'information on a country under focus. 
Itis difficult to explain why one becomes involved in CILA. It is an independent t d t · t' th t
s u en orgamza IOn a must supportitself through fund raising projects such as Christmans cards and the assistance of contrubutors who also are intersted in helping the less fortunate. CILA members 
· 
are not on1y mteres· ted m domg · something
meaningful for pople, but more uniquely, they wish to work and learn from them: a mutual, two way interaction. Thus CIAL means so much to its mem­hers, past and present. However, one might ask, why do all this? Why not merely live the ideals CILA stands for? John Adams, in a letter to his beloved wife Abigail, wrote something which somehow every CILA member believes. "Com­mitment, Abby, commitment! There are only two creatures of value on the face of this earth: those with a commitment, and those who require the commitment of others." CILA is not for everyone, it for those committed. This commitment can take various forms and attain different levels. That is the beautiful thing about CILA. One can participate in the Sunday liturgies, get involved in the year long Chicano project in South Bend, prepare for a sum­

... _
mer of work on one of the summer projects, or become active in the internal organiazation by being an officer. 
CILA is not Notre Dame's or St. Mary's Peace Corps, inasmuch as itis aChristian 
· commitment of life, and not a two year service obligation. Every day there are people to be cared for, listened to, and touched. CILA will go on-because it is a force enriched by the peoplt! who choose to 
get absorbed ~nto ~ts w?rkingt The spiritof. 

11!11. •••', ·••· .•• ·• ; •• • .• , , ••. , ' ·• • • • • ' • • • · • • • . · • fective workers and Christian Witnesses. Tom Dooley IS still ahve at Notre Dame.
•••••••••.-•••••...•lie••••••••••••••JII.•Jt4t''''.,....,.,.,.,.,.•.,••.. Various -source materials of the·University-· ·-· · · · · · · · · · · · 
I •••• " •• e •• e • e ••• a ••••••••••••• 9 'l' ••••• 
-----------------------~--·--­
•

USC trip slated for sen1ors 
TONIGHT!! A MAN CALLED HORSE 7!00 9:30 and 12 K of c  
ATTENTION: OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS BUY YOUR TICKETS FOR CARNEY '74 NOW. ON SALE ALL WEEK IN THE LIBRARY LOBBY ONLY $1.00 I ALL YOU CAN EAT  

by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 

The Senior Class is sponsoringits annual Eenior Trip to Los Angeles for the Notre Dame-Southern California Football Game. 
"This is the biggest Senior trip ever planned," commented Greg Erickson, Senior class President and chairman of the Senior Trip. "We have 521 reservations so far, and this number is three times more than we expected." 
Describing the purpose of the trip Erickson said, "This trip is intended especially for Seniors. 
si nee this is their last year here, 
and we have received a fantastic 
response from the Senior class. So 
far, we have received deposits 
from 400 Seniors, approximately 25 
per cent of the class." 
Students will leave Notre Dame 
onWednesday, November 27, and 
will return on Monday December 
2. They will leave the circle on Wednesday in 14 chartered buses for Chicago. From Chicago they 
· will fly to Los Angeles in 3 char­tered planes. 
"When we get to Los Angeles," Erickson said "Students will stay at the International Motel where 

Inflation blamed for tuition, room and board increases 
130 rooms have been reserved. For the student's convenience, we have reserved 130 rental cars for five days, and students will only have to pay for gas. Next week we will send out forms to applicants to list the three other people they want to room with and to share their car." 

Erickson pointed out that deposits will be accepted until September 6 at the Student Ac­tivities Office in LaFortune Center. The deposits are $50.00 and the whole cost of the trip is $230.00. 
"This is $5.00 more than we originally planned," said Erickson. "The increase is due to the fuel surcharge of the airlines and the addition of the rental cars." 
Final payment is due September 
21. If the balance is not paid by that time, students will be removed from the list and replaced by those on the waiting list. 
Detailing the refund situation, Erickson said, "If a person has paid his money and plane seats are 'lot available , his money will be refunded. If however, plane seats are available and a person cancels out, the money will not be refun­ded. But I would like to point out that Seniors are assured of a place on the plane." 
"I'd like to ask for everybody's cooperation in following the outline of the trip and abiding by the deadlines," Erickson said. "A lot of work has been put into the planning of this trip, especially by the other class officers, Bob Spann, Joe Henderlong and Chris Fenn. We all feel that this will be a great way to get away from the books." 

By Bill Gonzenbach Staff Reporter 

Inflation has again necessitated an increase in thetuition, room and board fees for the 1974-75 school year at Notre Dame. Fr. 'l'heodore Hesburgh revealed this summer that there would be a $166 in­crease in tuition fees and a $34 increase in room and board fees. 
Fr. Jerome Wilson, Vice-. President of Business Affairs reported Wednesday that th~ tuition increase was due to an increase in faculty salaries and 
, supply costs. Fr. Wilson stated that the rbom and board increase was due to increased proces for such items as fuel, coni and food. 
l<"r. Wilson cited that in the past two years coal prices have in­creased from $14 to $30 a ton. 
Wilson also reported that the increase of $100 for student salaries in the work-study program. He added that scholarship aid was still depen­
•dent on alumni funds and that it would not increase in proportion to the tuitimiincrease, 
Compared 'with other private universities, .tuition increase at Notre Dame is m~imal, Wilson said. The Chronicle of Higher Education reported that Brown University, Yale University, and New York University would all have tuition increases of $250 for the 1974-75 school year. · 


Presents: 

-
STARRING DUSTIN HOFFMAN Sunday & Monday Sept. 1& 2 
7 and 9pm _.. Engineering Auditorium ADMISSION $1.00 

.~;:•. • •. ,.. t>. 

Dreamed of food 
Sailors 
raft trip 
by Dan Carmichael 

Honolulu UPI -Without taking a supply of food or water, two Navy Reserve pilots floated in a 16 foot raft for 56 days 2600 miles across the Pacific thinking of one thing ­eating. 
"Everything we said was related to food." said one of the ad­venturers, George Sigler, 29. · "Every night we dreamed about food. I always dreamed of pan­cakes covered with syrup." 
Sigler and his companion Charles Gore, 27, both of Alameda Calif., were picked up by a Coast Guard helicopter Wednesday 120 miles short of their destination and brought to Honolulu after leaving San Francisco's Golden Gate in a liferaft equipped with a small sail on July 4. 
The voyage was intended to prove that two men, without food or water but with simple survival gear, could find their way across the ocean. 
"We met the challenge, and we hope that what we did will save the lives of future castaways," Gore .>aid. 
Although both men said they were big eaters, neither got hungry of suffered from stomach cramps although they thought constantly about food. 
They got water from solar stills, 
President Ford works on labor, economic problems 
creases, but it cannot compel such actions. 
The other members of the 

council are Butz, Brennan, 
Treasury Secretary William E. 
Simon, Commerce Secretary 
Frederick B. Dent, Budget 
Director Roy Ash, White House 
Consumer Affairs Adviser Virginia 
Knauer and presidentiall counselor 
Anne Armstrong. 
Woodcock sympathized with Ford's task of coping with in­flation. "There are no magic answers," he said. 
But he suggested as a first step a tax reform package that would include cuts for low income per­sons, increases for wealthy Americans and elimination of a navigated with a wrist watch and hoped to supplement their diet with fish. 
Each lost 40 pounds during the voyage that began July 4 when they headed for Hawaii. The two were served Thursday morning with mounds of pancakes smothered in maple syrup. 
They also were given bacon and eggs, orange juice, coffee and milk. 
On Wednesday night, when they arrived, Gore and Sigler had ravenous appetites. A Navy spokesman said the both ordered milk shakes, half and half milk and gingerbread cake. Later Wed­nesday night, they had sand­wiches. 
The worst and most dangerous moment of the trip came only two days after they set sail when a giant wave capsized the raft off Monterey, Calif. They spent two hours in the water strugg ling to get back in the raft. Most of their equipment washed away. 
For the first 40 days they existed on three pieces of candy and one viatmin C pill a day. 
From then until the day before they were rescued they lived solely on water made from a solar still. Their first fish catch, on Tuesday, consisted of five dolphin. 
The two men were rescued by the Coast Guard Wednesday after spending 56 days in the rough Pacific Ocean. The men had planned to drift to the Hawaiian island of Kauai before ending their dangerous venture, but the Navyasked to Coast Guard to pick them up 128 miles northeast of Hawaii. Part of their mission was an of­ficial Navy research project, and the Navy was concernedabouttheir 


SHOWTIMES 
-6:15-8:00-9:30 




N D defense shines -offense sputters 

by Greg Corgan He gets the ball up in the air for on in the afternoon Art Best saw 
Sports Editor about four seconds and that's what some action with the first team and 
we need. He also gets the ball even scored a touchdown, but for 

Th last full-scale scrimmage of fairly deep, although on a day like the time being, Best is still with the the fall preseason ended Wed­toda when there is a lot of second unit. nesday afternoon at least injury . humidity .-and no wind to aid the "Art has improved some," noted free and • with .whopping 53 points kick some of them seemed on the Parseghian, "and he's coming on the scoreboard. short side. Still, we're definitely along, but he's not made a move to 
The offense managed 46 of those pleased with the progress we've the first unit as yet."points while the defense had seven made in this particular area." Two people who have are juniorof their own as a result of a Tony Despite its 46 points the offense Randy Payne and freshman Randy Novakov interception. The junior performed sporadically. There Harrison in the defensive secon­
linebacker picked off a Tom were three interceptions and three dary. Harrison has moved up to 
Clements pass and returned it 45 fumbles mixed among the scoring replace Bob Zanot who was injured 
yards for a touchdown. Quarterback Tom Clements led last Saturday and Payne has 
Most of the action during the two scoring marches of 22 and 20 yards temporarily moved ahead of Tom hour workout took place between and engineered drives of 65 and 36 Lopienski at right corner. the number one and two units. The yards which resulted in field goals. "Lopienski and Payne are still first team got things going after AI 
Backup signal caller Frank pretty even in the battle for the Wujciak recovered Ross 

Allocco also directed first team right halfback position," said Ara. Christensen's fumble of a Tony scoring drives of 55 and 70 yards. "Randy had a good scrimmageBrantly punt on the second team "The offense was a little Saturday and11has been doing a · 
22. Three plays later, after a sluggish," offered Ara, "but that good job all fall .especially · sparkling 20 yard run by fullback has a lot to do with the fact that recently, and we like to reward Wayne Bullock, Tom Parise we weren't concerned with using good performance with ad­banged it over from the one for the too much option stuff. We went vancement. Right now we're first score of the afternoon. mostly with our set plays, and like giving Randy a shot at the 
Freshman David Reeve kicked I said before were concerned with position."the extra point, and during the certain particular -areas. But still, The first team defense showed workout. added four more extra I was disappointed with the signs of last year's prowess. Theypoints B<?-Nell as field goals of 30, number of turnovers during the allowed the second team offensive 44, 37, and 30 yards. workout." unit no points and less than 100 
"We were working on specific Nonetheless there were some yards in total offense. areas during this afternoon's impressive running performances. The secondary of Reggie Bar­scrimmage and the kicking game Halfback AI Samuel had 63 yards nett, JohnDubenetzky, Payne and was one of those areas," said head in nine carries while fullback Harrison accounted for one in­coach Ara Parseghian Wednesday Bullock accounted for 49 yards in terception, that one by Barnett,after the workout. "I'm pleased seven attempts. Clements also had while Drew Mahalic made sure the with the progress we've made as 31 yards in three carries including linebacking crew kept even pickingfar as covering kicks and the a 12 yard touchdown run. off a Kerry Moriarty aerial late in punting game in general." The first team backfield con­the fourth quarter.
"Reeve did a fine job. He's done sisted of Clements, Bullock, The dekftM! line of Steve an exceptional job with kickoffs. Samuel and Ron Goodman. Later Niehaus, Jim Stock, Kevin· 
Digger's cagers at Cartier Field 

Basketball coach Digger Phelps (above) will temporarily forget foul shots for fo~l balls Sunda~, as he and teammate Roger Valdiserri try their hands at softball. Phelps, attempttng to prove hts recruiting year an early success, fields a team of the four freshmen basketball players, Jeff Car­penter, "Duck" Williams, Dave Batton, and Randy Haefner, along w.ith h~s assistant coaches ~rank McLaughlin and Dick DiBiaso. Sports Information personnel Valdtsern, Bob Best, and asststant ticket manager Mike Busick round out the squad. . 
Opposing Phelps, and eager for their one chance of the season to bat htm aro~nd are the ten up­perclassmen from last year's 26-3 squad. Led by newly elected co captains Dwtght Clay and P~ter Crotty, the team will also include the leading returning scorer Adrian Dantley and somettme 
starters Bill Paterno and Ray Martin. Completing the veterans' squad will be senior Tom Varga, juniors Roger Anderson and Myron Shuckman, and sophomores Bill Drew, Toby Knight, and Dave Kuzmlcz. 
The game will be held at Cartier Field Sunday at Z p.m. All are invited to come see the Irish hoopsters in their '74-'75 debut. 
. ... .. _.. 

,. 
.-... ~-""" : ~~-(~ ,....,.. ,.. 
~ . ~ ...... 
... '· .-.t'...._. ,, '•, ' ~·· ..;, I. 
;.j:!t<'i,.. -.;._Sf
. ···"""'-.· 

. , . ::,_:2<.: :::;M,.j~;~lj;/" 
l;,._:_ ,, r,..~,...)\~. .. I . ,·i ,' \~ ..·: ......~~ -":!1-~.llt.J.'I 

Steve Niehaus and Jim Stock close in on a retreating Rick Slager. 
Nosbusch, and Mike Fanning some. He's playing with a little too 
remained intact and allowed the much weight."number two Irish practically Although the first and second nothing on the ground. teams saw the most playing time, 
Overall, Parseghian . was the third and . fourth displayedpleased with the defenisve play. what they could during the third "The defense definitely improved quarter. Moriarty directed a 60­over the·last scrimmage. They yard scoring • drive midwayforced some turnovers, and overall through the period.did a good job. Steve Niehaus is The Irish have but eleven days
coming along at the end position. until their season opener with We've moved him inside so that Georgia Tech and will scrimmage he's almost playing a wide tackl~ once more on Saturday. This will spot. The only thing about Steve is pit the first and second teams that we'd like him to trim down aga~t.the third and fourth units. 
O'Sullivan welcomes top 
five returning veterans 
tember, and other ones in theby Bill Delaney planning stages. The Irish will also host the Notre Dame In­For Irish Golf Coach Noel vitational., with a field of eightO'Sullivan, summer vacation universities already entered. "Thecouldn't end any sooner for his future is now" said O'Sullivan,players to return in Notre Dame's borrowing George Allen's quote.

upcoming fall season. "I am so optimistic about our chances this "We are ready to play, and we willyear, that I really can see our team do a good job." With a coach thecompeting in the NCAA's" said caliber of Noel O'Sullivan, youO'Sullivan. "I have five of my know that the Irish golfers will bestarters returning, and each one making big news in the upcominghas the potential to lead us to the 
year.

NCAA's so I feel reasonably secure about our chances." 
The veteran players returning Northwestern trip for Coach O'Sullivan include Jeff Burda, last year's co-captain, planned by juniors,seniors Mike Kistner and Ed Whelan, and juniors Paul Koprowski and Jim Culveyhouse. bus and tickets These players led Notre Dame's resurgence in _golf and set a few 
The junior class will be spon­school records in doing it, in­soring a trip to the Northwesterncluding setting the five-man low football game on Saturday Sep­team score, all this in O'Sullivan's tember 21. Transportation to thefirst year as head coach .. 

Evanston campus willl be on 

Burda, a junior from Aptos, Greyhound buses, which will leave California, is a three-year starter the circle at 10:00 a.m. for the team. His consistent play Tickets for this game will be and determination has made him a 
$16.00 and will include both the bus fare and the game ad­powerful force for the Irish. Mike mission.

Kistner and Ed Whelan provided Class president Augie GraceCoach O'Sullivan with strong play commented that is class wanted tolast year, and will be counted on to provide an alternative to the morecontinue their fine performances. 
expensive senior class trip toKoprowski and Culveyhouse give U.S.C. However, there are only 75O'Sullivan a solid nucleus to build openings available for the bus trip, on for the future. Their play last so it is advised that any interested spripg inspired the team and gave student, regardless of his class,botll added confidence . 

call one of the junior class officers Tile fall outlook for the Irish as soon as possible.

links'men appears to be a rather For reservations call Augie
rigorous one with home and away Grace 0504), Sue Caranci (3212)matches versus Purdue in Sep-or Betsy Kall (6847). 

