OD The Inside 
Action Express 
... page 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 10 Wednesday, September 11, 1974 

No one co117pletely satisfied 
Veto brought no opposition 
by Jim Eder Contributing Editor 
Fr. Hesburgh 's veto of the revised rule on sexuality 
proposed by the Student Life Council has brought forth 
no strong opposition from former council members. 
The proposal which had been passed by a narrow 
11-to-8 margin with two abstentions, was a com­
promise measure between those who favored the 
current rule specifying no limitations on the Univer­
sity's power of disciplinary action and 
those who sought to have the sex rule totally abolished. 
Inadequate proposals 
Comments made last night by several members of last year's council indicate that not even those who voted in favor of the revision were satisfied with its proposal that those students violating the university's policy regarding premarital sex be forced to live off campus. 
"We did not h"v"' adeq~ate proposals to choose from," explained Fr Carl Ebey. "It was near the end of the school year and ·the council was pressed for time." 
'lesser of two evils' 
Frank Flanagan, a student representative on the SLC last year f pointed out that he had voted in favor of the proposed revision "only because it was the lesser of two evils." 
"Limiting the University's discipline to forcing the violators off campus was at least better than not limiting it at all," he explained. "I really would have liked to see the sex rule abolished," Flanagan con­tinued. "I do not believe in legislating morals." 
Last May, when the SLC was reviewing all University rules, its Chairman Fred Syburg appointed a special four-man committee to write a revision of the sexuality rule, which had been heavily criticized for its vagueness. 
The committe consisted of Dean of Students John Macheca, Director of Student Activities Fr. David Schlaver, Student Body Vice President Mike Geisinger and Pat McLaughlin <SBP-elect substituting for Student Body President Dennis Etienne.) 

No specific penalties 
According to McLaughlin, Macheca and Schlaver advocated a rule similar to the current one. "They wanted no specific penalties to be listed," McLaughlin explained. "Geisinger and I, on the other hand, wanted to abolish the rule altogether," he continued. 
After two sessions and six hours of debate, the committee developed a compromise revision. This proposal stated that those students who engage in premarital sex "can expect to be challenged and may be asked to leave the on-campus community."
. 


Not clear enough 
"I felt that the students sacrificed a lot by accepting this proposal, and I still believe that a person's sexual activity is their own business," said McLaughlin. "But at least this rule would define and limit the maximum penalty to being forced off campus." 
McLaughlin emphasized the need for students to "Know where they stand" when rules are violated. "Clauses saying the University can take disciplinary action' are not clear enough." 
The committee presented its compromise proposal to the entire SLC at its last meeting of the year. Schlaver, however, also presented his own proposal, which ac­cording to McLaughlin was "still open-ended and not much different form the present rule." 

Comp-omise passed 
The council -first defeated Schlaver's proposal and then passed the compromise revision by an 11-to-8 vote. 
"It was the first time in my years on the council that a vote has been that close," commented Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of staff developm~nt. "This may have influenced Fr. Hesburgh's df..-cision," he also noted. 
Ackerman explained that he had voted against the proposed revision because of its use of sending people off campus as a penalty. "This places a stigma on those already living off campus," he said. 


Present rule vague 
Schlaver who agreed that off-campus living should not be used as a penalty, said, "The University either stands for a morality or it doesn't. We can't com­promise our philosophy by saying 'do what you want off-campus.' " . 
Schlaver also noted, "I suppose the present rule is a little vague, but there are good points to vagueness as well as bad. ·Anytime you try to specify you run into trouble." 


Chrit override veto 
The SLC cannot override Hesburgh's veto, even if it unanimously supported the proposed revision, con­sequently, it has decided to ask its rules committee to come up with a new revision proposal. 
The committee will hold an organizational meeting this week to decide how and when it will confront this task. If and when the rules committee writes another proposal, it will be put before the entire council for another vote. 
"The ball is back in our court," said Ackerman, who predicted some kind of further compromise in which violators will be subject to disciplinary action. 


HPC unanimously endorses calendar ~hange 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 
Dissatisfaction with Fr. James Burtchaell 's remarks concerning the academic calendar dominated discussion at the Hall Presidents Council meeting last night. 
Referring to Monday's Observer interview with the Provost, Chairman Bob Howl expressed his particular displeasure at Burt­chaell 's reply that the results of the Observer's Registration Day poll was 'insignificant.' 
'It just seemed to me that the opinion of 90 percent of the student body who favored reconsideration of the pre-Labor Day start, was important enough to warrant a review by Fr. Burtchaell,' Howl mentioned. 'A substantial figure like 90 percent just shouldn't be disregarded.' 
Rich Morton, Fisher Hall president, proposed drafting a letter that asserted the H.P.C.'s position in favor of calendar revlSlon. Following unanimous endorsement for the letter, Morton added, 'The students must organize in support of a calendar change now.' 
Following its call for action, Howl proposed a meeting with members of the Academic Council to seek support for calendar revision. He then announced plans for having Academic Council representative Jim Ambrose sit in at next Tuesday's meeting. 
'I think we must exercise all 
avenues in approaching a calendar 
revision. We have to take the time 
now to really look into this 
situation and get some solid 
support for revision,' said Howl. 
Other means for supplementing the H .P. C. position were discussed. Ivan Brown, Holy Cross president, suggested that more polls should be taken to check student interest on the present controversial calendar as the year goes on. 
'If student interest remains as high in opposition to the pre-Labor Day start as it is now, we can use these polls as a supporting argument when next year's calendar review is taken up,' Brown stated. By publicizing the results, we can draw attention not only to the Administration, but to the alumni as well,' he proposed to the hall presidents. 
Howl tabled further debate until next week's meeting. He ap­pointed Morton to organize a committee for drafting the H.P .C. stand on the calendar situation. 
The H.P.C. chairman further announced that information concerning meal co-exchange with St. Mary's will be given next week. Howl also reminded the hall presidents that any questions regarding property confiscated in residence halls over the summer should be directed to Bill McLain, student ombudsman. 

Tom Porter, vice-chairman, and Bob Howl, chairman of the Hall President's Counci• compare points before last night's meeting of the HPC ( Pho1o bv Ed Brower) 

1 
1 1 
i 
I 
1 1 
j I 
l 1 I 
--------~--------------------------------......... 
the· observer Wednesday,, 54tRtember u. DZ4 
Volunteers needed 




warld briels 
BOSTON (UPI) -A crowd protesting a desegregation order for Boston schools threw eggs and tomatoes at Sen. Edward Kennedy when he showed up at the rally Monday. The demonstrators hissed, turned their backs on the Massachusetts Democrat and sang 'God Bless America.' 
KATAMANDU, NEPAL (UPI) -Fourteen persons were killed when they were swept away by landslides and swollen rivers in an area about 25 miles south of here, the national news agency reported Tuesday. 
DECATUR, GA. (UPI) -A baby boy, dumped into a garbage truck by his 15 year old mother an hour after hish, was reported in excellent condition Tuesday after being rescued by two garbage collectors. 
MIAMI <UPI) -Gov. Reubin Askew became the second Florida governor ever to win renomination without a runoff Tuesday night and it appeared his percentage of the vote might be the highest in state Democratic primary history. 

an ca~pus taday 
10am-12pm: seminar: metropolitan life insurance co.: cce 12pm-9pm: art show: sarita levin 'drawings and paintings': little theater gallery 12pm-9pm: photo show: faye serio 'recent photographs': moreau photo gallery 12pm-5pm: art show: tom scarff 'neon and drawings': moreau main gallery 6:30pm: meeting & movie: nd salllng club with movie, 'dueling the wind': engineering rm 303 7:30pm: lecture: 'why pre-cana?' smc american scene cultural 
series: carroll hall 7:30pm: meeting: faculty senate: cce 8:15pm: concert: goodman harp ensemble: library aud.: $1.00 

Marketing Club opens with picnic 
The Notre Dame Marketing Club 

will open its 1974-75 schedule of 
activities with a free picnic for all 
Marketing majors or Sophomores 
Marketing Intents. The picnic will 
be held on the Main Quad beside 
the Business Administration 
Building Thursday, September 12, 
from 12:15 to 1:00 p.m. 
Scheduled activities this year 

include smokers, the Gilbert 
Lecture series, field trips and a 
symposium. Dues have been 
reduced from $3.00 to $2.00 per 
year. Anyone interested in joining 
the club may do so at the 
Marketing Picnic. 

Renowned harpist performs tonight 
Renowned harpist Gerald Goodman will perform in the Library Auditorium tonight at 
8:15. Admission will cost one dollar. 
Sponsored by the Office of Student Affairs, Goodman will perform a variety of songs, ranging from ancient ballads to symphonies to modern songs and Broadway show tunes. Music Department Chairman William Cerny will provide piano ac­companiment. 
Goodman, who also sings well, 

has toured over two hundred 
college campuses as well as 
playing at numerous resorts and 
events throughout the country. 
A Cleveland native, he began his 

professional career in New York, 
playing his harp for ten funerals a 
day. 
On-campus blood drive begins 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
The first phase of a new on­campus blood drive program, a blood donor drive, is currently underway in all residence halls and dining halls and will continue through September 20. 
The former recruitment deadline of September 15 has been extended to allow students to become more aware of the program and to give them more time to volunteer, explained Colleen O'Rorque, drive chair­person. 
According to the new program, the Red Cross Blood mobiles which came to the campus in the past will no longer be used. Instead, students will donate blood on a rotating hall basis at the Central Blood Bank downtown. 
Each hall has been assigned one Tuesday or Thursday during the semester in which it has been asked to send 20-25 student donors to the blood bank. 
The blood bank is a member of the American Association of Blood Banks, which announced that it would receive only volunteer donors by 1975. This increased the need for volunteers. 
However, the county blood program is very young and cannot afford to sponsor mobile blood units on-campus, added Heisler. 
Therefore, the campus council 




~~~~r-~ 
paid, Notre Deme, Ind. 

Jl Foreign Car Parts Co. I 
····
) 
:4 Parts & accessories for imported cars ~~~~ for all makes at lowest prices. ~~~
1 

~• .,;butor ~:~;;fl~~~;~:~~~!~~~~*~!=!~'i =~-~-~-~ 
************************.. =-=· ?lS.D~~Q%~ N2;o;~~~~ So. Bend I 
~~~;.~.@~~~~~:~=:~~(:: !;~;
Unlv.,-sltv of Notr• Dame and St. ·••• 
~=~v·~ c~~~~~sec~ 5':o~:'':; ~~~~ 
semester (S14 per vear 1 from The ..· Observer Box Q, Notre Dame. ~-~~~.: 
Indiana 46556. SeCOftd ca..a 
:;~~e :~~~: 
Bank. 
Not all students can donate, though, continued Heisler. No one who has had infectious hepatitus, diabetes, chronic kidney disease, or infectious mononucleosis within the past year, may donate. 
Volunteers who at the time of donation have a cold or flu, are asked to postpone their donation, until symptoms have subsided. Consumption of diet pills, asprin, contraceptives, or antihistamines will not disqualify a donor. Mter eight weeks, a donor is eligible to donate again. 
Persons between the ages of 17 and 65 may donate. Females must weigh at least 110 pounds; males, 
125. All persons with anemia will not be accepted as donors. 
Above all else, Heisler urged all prospective donors to have a good night's rest and to have eaten within six hours of donation. 
Hall recruiters and drivers to provide transportation between the blood bank and campus are still needed, said Heisler. To volunteer or for more information contact Colleen O'Rorke, 5261, or AI Cllahan, 1642. 


ENGINFJiiRING STUIENTS I 
If y o u a r e in t e r e s t e d in j~~~[
.. 
r e p r e s e n t i n g t h e En g i n e e r i n g ~-~~-~· 5 f U d 9 n f 5 0 n f h e ~~~~ 

li'JIVERSITY ACADEMIC cooNCIL, II 
Please r e s u m e ,  submit your nome, a n d b r i e f s t a t e m e n t  ·· !~;~i~~~  
;  :  f~cuer PO~ sf~ ;  cD :  ~ ~  .1.1.1  
(R o o m 2 2 E n g i n e e r i n g ) by ~::~e:ebdenre s;ay,1 II  

----------------------------l~~=:=:=:=:=:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~· 



INDIANA LAWS CAN BE CHANGED 


NOW is the time to BEGIN. 
REGISTER TO VOTE TODAY & TOMORROW SEPT. 11 & 12 
9 A.M.-5P.M. Lafortune Lobby 
5 P.M.-6:30 P.M. 
outside the Dining Halls 
• • • . t ' 




_________________________._.,._____________ 
Wednesday, September 11; 1974 the observer 
In Lyons Hall 
Gartlandisfirst resident chaplain
development of the human students and campus ministers Boy Magazine and held a similar spent at King's College, he also
by Ellen Syburg 

person and to foster the growth of designed their own housing post with Catholic Miss from held a campus ministry post at
Staff Reporter 

a Christian community", are his situation with these specific goals 1960-62. Stonehill College, Mass. for five 

This year, for the first time, students can turn to a handbook 

OFFICIAL GRAND OPENING OF
called Du Lac written from a student's viewpoint by other students. 
Previously, there was a separate pamphlet for academic 
UNCLE WILLIE'S FATAL GLASS OF BEER 
codes, student manual, traffic information, etc. Through a cooperative effort of students and the administration, a single guidebook was created which 
TONIGHT! would not be easily lost and which students would be inclined to read. 
DRINK & DROWN
Several students wrote sec­tions, but the major planners and contributors were John Macheca Dean of Students, and An~ 

ALL YOU CAN DRINK
McCarry and Fred Baranowski co-editors. Although Du La~ contains much vital information "the idea was not to tell yo~ 
everything," according to STARTING 7:00 PM UNCLE WILLIE'S McCarry. "It leaves things to find out, like legends or secrets." 
OPEN 11 :00 -3:00 AM DAILY 
In choosing a title, McCarry 
felt that Du Lac (French for "of 
the lake") was appropriate since THE NEWEST STUDENT BAR
the official name of the university 
is Notre Dame Du Lac. 
The handbooks are being 
distributed this week by ALSO FEATURING SANDWICHES 
residence hall staffs. 

Lyons Hall has the distinction of being the first women's dorm at Notre Dame to have a chaplain in residence. Although the post is new, the man who fills it has been a member of the Notre Dame community at various times during the last 46 years. 
Fr. Frank Gartland, the new chaplain, discussed his thoughts about the new job in an interview yesterday. "To help inspire two main goals as a member of the Campus Ministry staff. He feels that a Christian has a duty to serve others and hopes that through his role he can challenge 
the students to do so. 
Gartland has had extensive experience in this type of work, most recently at King's College, Pa. There he helped to develop a "viable experiment in Christian community and the sharing of our human lives" in which 

.aere is the best place to roller skate? The cracks in the sidewalks are not only wearing down my skates, but driving me a little crazy. Isn't there a sidewalk with fewer cracks in it? 
After several hours of careful measuring we came to the conclusion that all the cracks in the sidewalk are a standard size, due to the constant expansion and contraction with fluctuations in the weather. So if sid~walk skating is what you want, you are doomed, forever, to ride with the cracks. However, if you are willing to skate in an enclosed area Stepan Center is the best place on campus to skate. 
When can I register my bicycle? 
You can register your bike at the Security Office any time between 9:00a.m. and 4:00p.m. There is a small fee of $1.00. 
A girl friend of mine is coming to visit me one of these weekends, 1 don't know any girls on campus who she could stay with, is there any place where she can stay? 
She can stay at the Farley Motel. As far as we know the cost will be minimal if any, for further information you can contact Jeanne Earley at 7180. 
Du Lac handbooks report student view 
By Mary Reher Staff Reporter 

in mind. 
The chaplain joked about his situation as the only male in a woman's dorm. He noted, "One of my friends told me I was really 
fulfilling the scripture of 'blessed art thou amongst women' ". He stated that while the position is unique on this campus that he sees "not just young man or young woman but the common denominator of person" and thus his role as minister remains unchanged. 
While Gartland adjusts to his new position he has also had the pleasure of greeting old friends that he make in his previous years here. He first came to Notre Dame as an undergraduate in 1928, was ordained in 1937 and took the post of Prefect of Religion, a job he held for two years. One of his duties during that time was the publishing of the Notre Dame Bulletin, a one­page daily. This experience began his career in writing and journalism that has occupied much of his time since. 
Gartland then moved to the Our Sunday Visitor and was the editor of the youth section of that magazine. As this was during the war years, he recalls corresponding with many Gl's who would write to him at the 
paper for guidance while  over­ 
seas.  
In 1948 he returned  to  Notre  

Dame to edit and blish Catholic 
I 

Fr. Frank Gartland hopes "to help inspire development of the human person" as chaplain of Lyons. 
(Photo by Ed Brower) 

After turning over the years. magazines to Fr. Tom McNally All in all, Gartland says he is <rector of Grace Hall), Gartland "happy to be back" and looks went east where he has been forward to working with the since. Besides the five years he wCJmen of Lyons Hall. 


KEN'S DEN 
HAIRSTYLING 
-Award winning stylists Unique atmosphere Rottler styling 
products  
Across  from  100  Center  
( Lincolnway  West)  in  

Mishawaka 

Phone 255-6500 .Appointments 


The black experience 
james stewart 
effect. A few nice toucbes such as apart by their men's decisions. a torn screen and house lights that Not only did they suffer the in­weren't turned down enough ternal pains but in many cases Editor's Note: "The Black Experience" is a new feature which complemented the other problems. they became the target of com­will appear periodically in The Observer. The purpose of the series 

Supersound? 

I've never seen more worthless munity disdane. is to provide the Notre Dame community with an educational beat-up equipment or more When these men return to the perspective on the activities of the Black population at Notre amateurish, blundering projec­United States it will be extremely Dame. In particular, the series tries to reflect the attempts of the 
Editor, tionists in my life. difficult, perhaps impossible for Black population to make a meaningful contribution to the Notre 
It's not easy to ruin a film as This whole mess points to the them to return to their old home Dame environment while at the same time preserving and good as Jesus Christ Superstar, but even larger problem of the lack of towns. tThey too will have to enhancing the Black experience. The first article in the series the Student Union's bungling any decent well~uipped place to rebuild their lives from scratch. deals with the Council of Black Student Organizations. Con­projectionists destroyed it with an show films on the N.D. campus. -Mr. Nixon could never receive a tributions to the series are invited and should be addressed to Ann amazing show of incompetence. The engineering auditorium is not fair trial. McCarry, P.O. Box Q, The Observer. They set up the projector in the only much too small, but the chairs The same applies to these men. back row of Washington Hall, there are so uncomfortable that The response by the VFW to the making the picture fill about one­you keep hoping the film will end President's recent suggestion of 
third of the screen and look like a so you can stand up and relieve limited amnesty should be The Council of Black Student Organizations is an informal 
home movie. When the starting your agony. The K of C Hall is also evidence enough that emotions are organization which was created to achieve some degree of coor­too small and is ingeniously set up still running too high for an un­
time rolled around and the dination among the activities of the diverse student groups whost 
audience was all ready to be taken so that the person's head in front of biased jury to be found. 
constituencies are primarily Afro-Americans. Among the . groups in by a good film, the boys in you fills the entire middle of the People argue that by granting represented in the council are the Society of Ujama, the New screen. I think that Washington unconditional amnesty to the draft 
charged decided to play a few Frontier Scholastic Society, the Black Graduate Student Union,
minutes from each reel and adjust Hall would be the best spot if new evaders it would allow them to .and the Black Law Student Association (BALSA). In addition, to the sound and focus. As if this equipment was installed and it was never have to admit committing a msure that all segments of the Afro-American population are run by people of intelligence and crime or moral wrongdoing. Mr.
wasn't enough, they then ran the represented in the planning and execution of Council sponsored 
same parts backwards. I realize experience. There is so little en­Nixon did neither. 
activities, special representative status was granted to Afro­tertainment on this campus that If the United States can forgive
this was the first showing, at 7:00 American females, and other individuals who are active in campus 
Friday, but any reasonably in­what we do have, namely films, Mr. Nixon, American citizen, it activities. telligent adult knows that all the can be greatly improved by Pat must do the same for the thousands Last year the Council successfully sponsored the Black Cultural 
McLaughlin and student govern­of citizens with the same set of
adjustments should be made Arts Festival, the theme of which was "Black Perspectives in 
ment. circumstances. If she can't, there
before the audience arrives. Transition." Participation by the Notre Dame student body at 
can never be"... justice, for all."
Maybe those in charge thought large in the festival activities was not as great as had been hoped they were giving little "sneak Richard Cronin Stephen J. Vamos but hopefully, this series and other attempts by the Council to previews," but their ignorance renew interest in the activities of the Afro-American population at resulted in destroying the whole Notre Dame and the country at large will insure greater par­"magic" and believability that a ticipation in this year's activities. motion picture must have. About Many of the council's activities are sponsored jointly with other half-way through the film, the Relief campus organizations. As an example, the Cultural Arts Festival

Amnesty

projector broke down and the received financial aid from Student Government, the Office of audience groaned and complained Stud~nt Activities, the Center for Civil Rights, and the Black for five minutes while the highly volunteered Studies Program. One of the Council's goals for this academic yeartrained projectionists tried to to all ? is to enhance this cooperation so that the activities under Council 
figure out what they had done sponsorship can be expanded. wrong. . Th~s year'~ activities are currently in the planning stages and aid 
Dear Editor, To the Editor:
I'll have to admit that the blame m this pla!lmng _w_ould be deeply appreciated. 'Thus far, this year, for the butchery of this film does President Ford's decision to the Council has jomtly sponsored a dance and a picnic, the primary
grant Richard Nixon amnesty In his interview Mongay with the 
not fall entirely on the people in purpose! of both being to provide a mode for facilitating the entry 
leaves Mr. Ford no other alter­Observer, Father Burtchaell
command. The equipment they of new students into the Notre Dame environment and to acquaint
termed the actual setting of the
were using was outdated and in native but to also grant un­them with the Council and its program.
conditional amnesty to all draft school calendar as one of his most
rotten condition, and its T~ose i~terested in serving on the Council are requested to 
evaders and deserters. The same unpleasant responsibilities, adding 
uselessness went hand in hand with register with the secretary of the Black Studies Program on the their ineptitude. The single arguments used to justify Nixon's that "anybody else is welcome to third floor of O'Shaughnessy. All Afro-American students are speaker that they used sounded amnesty can also be applied to it." requested to fill out the simple questionnaire in the Black Studies like it had been shot full of holes, these men. I, for one, would be most Office. 
-Mr. Nixon and his family have delighted to relieve our Provost of
and it crackled and buzzed on any Note: To facilitate the dissemination of information concerning the 
gone through enough agony and his this most wearisome burden.
sound above a whisper. Since the meetings and ot~er activities which reflect the Black Experience, 
film was a musical, you can life can never be the same again. 
one feature of this column will be a calendar of activities. imagine how this magnificent The families of the draft 
Andrew J. Schilling, '76 

sound system added to the total resistors and deserters were torn 



~~ 
SORJ<.'t MOM, BUT HAROI!NG 0~51/RE MARCH/N6 O~Sl 
I'Yt: GOT 10 Rtp()R.TFOR !HAT ~HOUTIONS G161N TH~ PE/..TA BY MONIJAY I AT THe t.Af&sr. 
~ 
I GUE55 I 
BWtR GET POWN 1lJ Til~ MfKON611AB&R­PASH~Y ANO PICJ<­
(Jp SOMe New IJNIFOI?ftfS. WHAr A PAINI-7HATS !<&ALLY GONNA S&T 
/ M~BNJ<.. 


the observer 

Night Editor: AI Rutherford Ass't Night Editor: Ginny Faust Layout: Marti Hogan, Karllee Clark, Norm Bower Copy Reader: Ken Bradford and Jim Eder Day E~itor: George Velcich Editorials: Ken Girouard Features: J.R. Baker, Norm Bower Sports: Bob Kissel Typists: Camille Arrieh, Kathy Grace, Nell Viii, Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator: M.J. Foley Picture Screener: Albert D'Antonio Night Controller: Phil Orscheln 
The Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief: Tom Drape Editorial Editor: Ann McCarry Managing Editor: Marlene Zloza Sports Editor: Greg Corgan News Editor: Terry Keeney Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy Special Projects: AI Rutherford St. Mary's Editor: Mary Janca Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink Features Editor: J.R. Baker Contributing Editors: Fred Graver, 
Jim Eder, Pattie Cooney Photo Editor: Zenon Bidzinskl 
Calendar of Upcoming Activities 
Wednesday, September 11: Black Graduate Student Union Meeting, 7:30, Black Cultural Arts Center, LaFortune. 
Saturday, September 14: Black 'FFaculty·Student softball game, 2:00-4:00 p.m. Dinner and rap session 5:00-9:00 p.m. Diamond South of ACC. 
Column space on this page is open to any member of the university community. Regular and or oc­cassional contributions are welcome on any topic, in any style. Ifinterested please contact Ann McCarry at the Observer Office, 283-8661, for further in­formation. 
The Observer welcomes all comments and opinions 
submitted in the form of letters. 
All letters should be submitted to The Observer, 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556, or brought to The 
Observer offices in the south wing on the 3rd floor of 
LaFortune Student Center. They must be 
typewritten, double-spaced and signed. Names will 
be withheld on request, however. · The Observer reserves the right to edit letters when 
spatial limitations deem necessary. Length of letters 
are asked to be no more than two pages. 
-------------~-------~--------­
-----~----------------~··­
....
Wednesday, September 11, 1974 the observer 5 




fareit;~n nates 



the genius of 
~':t. '

mad ludwig 
' 1 
1: im a!reiley 
~ 
level of his people. Schools, colleges, the The "Fairy Tale King" grew to be a more Institute of Technology in Munich were appropriate title as time passed, since his established in his time. The Red Cross dream castle served as the model for the gained its first royal supporter in Ludwig, Disneyland Castle. Ludwig II, the King of and soon spread theoughout the German Bavaria (1864-1886), tried though never state. Bavarian arts and crafts had a great succeeded in overcoming his shyness and friend in the king, who also sponsored craving for solitude. He was raised friend­Wagner until political pressures forced him less and died friendless, having only his to cancel that support. Two wars marred fertile imagination as company for most of his reign, though he resisted them until his life. This dreaming would ultimately external forces became irresistable. The build his greatest monument and destroy his shy Ludwig even made attempts to ride 
lonely lif~. through the country side to meet his people, Born August 25, 1845, he was raised in the and allow them to see their king. Hohenschangau Castle, a medieval palace Increasingly, however, Ludwig sought to perched on a hill that gives it a commanding avoid human contact as much as possible. Though seventeen years of construction d'etat, the counsellors arranged for doctors, view of the surrounding Bavarian Long, lonely wanderings through the Alps failed to complete the dream, the entire who never personally examined the king, to 
countryside. Here Ludwig enjoyed helped him escape what he called "this exterior was completed, along with enough have him declared insane. Mter a short, the company of only his mother and ser­coarse world." Though he took advice on of the interior to demonstrate Ludwig's half-hearted resistance, he surrendered on vants, with very few exceptions. Roaming many problems, he would seclude himself romantic, if misdfrected genius. June 12, 1886, remaining cool and calm the nearby forests and valleys alone became and follow his own counsel when making The walls of all his rooms are decorated while being transferred to Hohen­a passion of his at an early age. His tutors decisions. Female companionship was profusely with tapestries, frescoes of his schwangau, now remade into a mental often were no match for his active mind, and sparse; his only engagement to his cousin, favorite Wagner operas, or completely knot­prison. He pled innocent to charges against his father, the Crown Prince Maximillian, Princess SQphie of Bavaria was abruptly free wood paneling. His nine foot bed has a him, ranging from building castle prisons, raised him in a strict way that did not terminated after ten months, and he never carving of the resurrection of Christ at its to commissioning the construction of an prepare him for the outside world or his considered marriage again. And at a time foot, and wood reproductions of all the great airplane, while steadfastly declaring his later assumption of the throne. The narrow when other monarchs were building great churches in Europe on the canopy; the sanity. This protest was short -lived, for on atmosphere turned the young prince toward Baroque palaces, Ludwig turned a large room took fourteen sculptors four and a half June 13, he took a walk with only his doctor, an idealism that would divorce him from the amount of his energies to constructing years to complete. A stone mosaic of two and both were found drowned in a nearby profane world, through romantic paintings medieval castles: the Linderhof, Herren­million pieces on the floor of the throne hall lake the next day, the circumstances of on the castle walls, the literature of chiemsee, and other planned castles, plus was laid to symbolize all the plants and which are still amystery. Frederick von Schiller, and Richard his magnificent obsession, Neuschwanstein. animals in the world, though the actual A souvenir booklet on "mad" Ludwig, 
throne was never built. One hall is an ar­copyright 1974, suggests that more time is tificial grotto, using bronze lizards as door needed for history to pass jud_gment on the handles -here was his retreat. Central king, now dead for 88 years. It is clear that heating and air conditioning, plus hot and he was a man misplaced in history: an ocld running water, and a tank for keeping idealist having to cope with the dominance fish were designed for the highly advanced of Bismarck's Realpolitik, an introvert cast kitchen. A 15o-foot waterfall fell into the in a role that requires the outgoing, a knight Poellat Gorge, the King's "backyard:' in armor riding during the machine age. Almost every architectural style and in­While attempting to help his subjects, he novation was incorporated into Neusch­was betrayed by his highest advisors and his wanstein, but Ludwig lived there only 102 own heritage. The King's flights of fantasy days. to escape this reality ran a ruinous cost on 
As the castle took time from the affairs of the treasury, forcing the drastic steps to state, so did it money from the remove him. Yet Bavarians today admire treasury. The King's closest advisors the "Fairy Tale King" because he tried to feared that he would spend in his lifetime a improve and beautify "this coarse world." royal fortune that required 800 years to They also pity him as a man who charged accumulate. To insure a bloodless coup after a target he could never find. 

squirrels in accJdemia 
by clytemestra von der vogelweide 
There are some of us on this campus who almond idol is passed back and forth by the have done --in default of a better preoc­celebrants often to the detriment of their I cupation-some serious thinking about persons. Likewise all squirrels agree that I squirrels --Notre Dame squirrels to be human culture is nevertheless strictly I exact. (It's high time someone did in this limited as can be seen in their inability to I era of general detente.) Our observations adapt themselves to trees which are as I although necessarily limited have been every night thinking squirrel knows the only l concentrated not to say intense and not­acceptable abode of civilized beings. j withstanding our inability to comprehend a Physiology is to a large extent a ~ single syllable of squirrelish (although this theoretical science becasue few im­t writer speaks very fluent cat) we are still on mature humans are seen -in fact some the basis of observation and a thorough squirrels argue that little humans are not of
south bend movies 
understanding of comparative academics the same species at all but are rather a 
l

been able to present the following con­second species who occaisionaly keep the 
~ 

clusions which while startling are never­first as pets --it is often maintained by the THEATER SHOW TIMES 
theless easily verifiable by selected data emminent authorities that humans are born •tand are above all logical and consistant. just as they are seen at the Center. One Avon The Groove Tube 7:30, 9:30 
First it has been ascertained that Notre young radical has suggested that the age of 
• 

Dame is a "Center of Advanced Human humans is directly proportionate to their Boiler House American Grafitti 7:30, 9:45 
Studies for Squirrels''. This was first height and concluded that as compared to conjectured when a rather large squirrel his control group most of the humans are Dirty Mary and Crazy Larry 7:30, 9:30 
with bloodshot eyes was discovered fran­painfull immature. How he came to use the 
tically drawing diagrams now believed to be basketball team as his control has not yet Cinema Art Call Theater for shows and times 
genetics charts under a pine tree infront of been ascertained. Brownson Hall. The tree in question is Genetics is the most frustrating of 
Colfax Dr. Zhivago 7:30 frequented by a number of perpetually squirrels' studies due to the wide spread frazzeled young adult squirrels -obviously a human practice of changing their "pelts" 
seminar class. daily. The Bronson squirrel (see above) was so frustrated that his diagrams had trailed 
Michigan Call theater for shows and times 
The squirrels appear to be investigating off into meaningless doodles even though
Ready Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid 7: 10, 9: 10 three major areas of Ia condition humaine; he had successful1y proved that the gene for <Niles Time) social customs, physiology and genetics. 
blue is dominant in the lower pelt, while he 
Riverpark California Split 7: 15, 9:15 The vast majority of squirrel sociologists himself ran aimlessly around the tree trunk.
favour the hypothesis that humans are Some squirrels have even postulated that
State Death Wish 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, intelligent if largely unintelligable beings. 
humans have the chamelion ·like ability to7:45, 9:45 This supposition is based on the sociologists' 
Town and Country Animal Crackers 1:45, 3:45, 5:45 change coat color at will, this change
not infrequent observations of an autumal representing reflection of their mental
7:45,9:45 rite of obviously religious significance and· a 
Scottsdale That's Entertainment 1:45, 4:15, 6:45,9:45 state. <It is not known yet what the ducks'
attended with great fervour where an opinions are.) 


~---~­
Wednesday, September 11, 1974 
... 6 the observer 
Dorms establish Community Service Director 

By Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 
Do you want to help retarded children or work with disabled or elderly persons or help raise money for a worthy cause and don't know where to turn? There is a person right in your dorm you can go to --your Hall Director of Community Services. 
The Community Service Director establishes an easy contact basis with persons in­terested in working in com­munity services. Interested students can talk to their hall 
director  and  get  extra  in­ 
formation  on other  charitable  
groups.  The  director  also  


Shakespeare 
films to be shown again 
By Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 
This Thursday night, a five year tradition at Notre Dame will be continued as a series of Shakespeare films, sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission, will open with the Taming of the Shrew. 
The Franco Zeffirelli production starring Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor will be shown at 7 and 10 p.m. at the Engineering Auditorium. 
Other films in the series are Romeo and Juliet on Sept. 16, also produced by Zeffirelli; Tony Richardson's Hamlet, Oct. 7; and Roman Polanski's Macbeth on Dec. 2. 
The tradition of Shakespeare films held on campus was begun principally through the efforts of Professor Paul Rathburn of the English Department. Rathburn rented the films with his own money, and showed them to students and visitors in his classes. When asked about the early days, Rathburn stated, "By showing one or two films in a semester, I hoped to enrich my teaching." 
Rathburn continued, "about three years ago, with the help of the Knights of Columbus, we held a campus-wide series to raise money for Sr. Maritas Day Care Center in South Bend. "The project raised $400 and I decided there was a ripe market for a semester-long series." 
Lasy year the series put on nine films and attracted twleve thousand people. Asimilar series held this summer put on five films, each of which were at­tended by over 500 people. These programs, financed by the College of Arts and Letters, were shown to the public for free. 
This semester Rathburn has transferred control of the Shakespeare films to Bill Wylie and Tom McGinty of ths Cultural Arts Commission. 
Due to a lack of funds, a 25-cent admission fee will be charged at this Thursday's showing. Wylie and McGinty have asked that students attending Thursday's showing bring quarters to avoid change shortages and keep order in the auditorium so that as many students as possible can be ad­mitted for the showings. 
Rathburn has also started a Shakespeare radio program on WSND this semester. Records of famous Shakespeare per­formances are played, before which Professor Rathburn gives a short commentary. 

maintains an awareness in the 
hall for the need of community : .service. 
The directors of all the halls 
meet on a regular basis and 
decide which community : 
projects to undertake. These 
projects originate through 
Campus Ministry or Fr. Thomas 
Stella, director of volunteer 
services. 
The group did a variety of things since its organization last . January. Volunteers helped renovate a home for the elderly, helped in the blood drive, collected money for the : American Cancer Society, and : organized a clothing drive to help last year's tornado victims. 
This year the service group is . working through clearing agents. Jerry Richardson of Morrissey, Ed Fritzen of Howard, and Stanford's Bill Chidichimo will get the facts on possible projects · and bring them up at the meetings. Melanie Connell of Breen Phillips is in charge of going through the registration cards to find students interested in community service. She is also checking halls without directors. 
Pat Sheehan, director in Walsh, 
explained some of the future 
goals of the group. "We want to 
try and establish community 
service directors in the dorms at 
St. Mary's _College", she said. 
"This will improve relations 
between the two schools and 
there's a storehouse of people 
there." 
"We also want to try and get 
each hall involved in their own 
projects, such as bein~ 
.._. :~' 
. :. ~ ~
I ' 
I 



CLUBS and ORGANIZATIONS 
wanting to be considered in this year's Student Government Budget must pick 
up a budget form in the Student 
Government Offices The form must be completed and returned by THIS Friday. 
responsible for one charity or group from South Bend," Sheehan added. "This will im­prove our relations with the South Bend community." 
Mike Davis, the spokesman for the organization, has high hopes this year and thinks it will be better because of last year's experience. 'We learned a few lessons of what kind of projects to take on and how the hall-to-hall set-up could be best im­plemented," Davis noted. "This year we want to get each director to develop a project for the hall." 
There are already organizations on campus that use students and this group wants to be more creative in our projects, added Davis. "We have to use our imaginations and come up with more projects that need to be done and less that are already being done," he said. 
Of the group itself, Davis said "This is one of the best groups I've ever been associated with. Everybody is outgoing and friendly and they have a gr86t desire to help people." 
Brother Joseph McTaggart, advisor of the group, said that the purpose of the service directors is to "create an atmosphere in each hall where people would become interested in and concerned about the varied activites that are on campus." 
McTaggart continued,"I'm very pleased with the way things have gone. So far we have 95 per cent participation." 
There is still a need for service directors in some halls. Farley, Dillon, Alumni and Lyons need directors and off-campus Judy Temmerman, Badin; and students need someone to Jack Hanzel, Zahm. represent them. The present Keenan has two director -Bill directors are: Steve Cabir, Holy Shanabrouch and Larry Lam­Cross; Chris Conley, Cavanaugh; mers. Don Longanomts Glanner Tom Day, St. Ed's; Steve Goett, and Mike Smith of Pangborn are Grace; Jim Kelleher, Fisher; the other directors. 
SCIENCE MAJORS AND INTENTS ! 
Any student in the 
College of Science or any freshman with a science intent wishing to be considered for the post of Student Representative to the Academic Council must submit a letter of 
intent to that effect to Dr. Darwin Mead, 229 Niewland, no later than noon on Monday, Sept. 16 
1 


SUMMER CLEARANCE 
20%-50% OFF 
! GJ ALL Sl.MI\AER ~RCI-W'DISE UNTIL SEPTE/\IBER 21 
In t11e MINI MAll at TOWN & COUNTRY Shopp~ng Center
* TENNIS EQUIPMENT* 10 SPE:t.1>S
*TENNIS APPAREL
* BACKPACKIIG GE'Jm
*MUNARI HIKIIG BOOTS 
SUPER SPECIAL 
only
$130 OIESENT I 0 -SPEED 
$99 

f. f # • I f I I I • • • • 

Feelings vary over pardon 
. 

WASHINGTON (UPI) Republicans and Democrats in Congress spoke out quickly Tuesday against the prospect of presidential pardons for Water­gate defendants. 
Democrats denounced the idea as "a mockery of equal justice" and "the cover-up of cover-ups". Republicans dis­sented in softer terms. But none at first spoke in favor of the idea. 
White House spokesmen an­nounced at a noon news briefing that Ford, in a follow­up to his controversial Nixon pardon, had taken "under study" the question of pardons for Watergate defendants. 
"I can't imagine that he would make such a mockery of equal justice under the law by pardoning men who undertook to steal from the American people the right of a free election," said Sen. Sam Ervin, D-N.C., head of the Senate committee that investigated Watergate in televised hearings a vear a~o. 
b:Jr oi!~-••~ ~~~~ 


b;~~nR~t~~r~ .E··············A···N···v··o···N···E················.·.· 
Byrd,  D-W.Va.  "Where do  we  
stop ... It  merely compounds  one  
mistake.  n would  complete  the  

cover-up of cover-ups." Sen. Jacob Javits, R-N.Y., said, "I thought it was a 
mistake about the Nixon pardon and I feel similarly about the 
others."
Sen. Robert Stafford, R-Vt., said he hoped Ford "will decide not to do it" and Sen. Robert 
Taft, R-Ohio, said that while 
Ford probably had to consider ;~:"~~~sibility, "I would not go 

violence 
By DAVID M. ROSEN 

BOSTON <UPI) Sen. Edward W. Brooke, R-Mass., Tuesday labeled abuse directed at Sen. Edward M. Kennedy at an antibusing rally "a dis­grace," and appealed for calm at the start of forced busing in Boston. 
Brooke's plea for to the people to "put their emotions behind them'' followed a television appeal by Mayor Kevin White for "undivided cooperation and common pur­pose" in implementation of a federal school desegregation order to bus 18,000 students when schools open Thursday. 
He warned that the city will "pursue and prosecute" all persons who forcibly stop children from going to school. 
The mayor took a softer line l>n a proposed school boycott saying, "To those of you who do not believe in violence, but who choose to keep your sons and daughters at home -that is your decision." 
Brooke, the only black member of the U.S. Senate, said of Monday's anti-busing demonstration at which Kenne­dy was booed and had missiles thrown at him : 
"I regret what happened. It was a disgrace. I think he deserves an apology. 
"Everyone is entitled to their beliefs, but to throw eggs and tomatoes is a disgrace." 
Brooke said, "I don't believe busing is a panacea, but it is a 
constitutional  tool  to  bring  
about integration."  
Violence, he said,  "will  never  

solve our problems in Boston or anywhere else." 
LOST AND FOUI'j!ID 

Lost: one make-up bag. Gray paisley canvas with red leather binding. Initials 
N.M.S. Reward $20. Call 6294. 
Reward for return of green spiral notebook and Computer Data Processing book "accidentally" taken from South Dining Hall Sept 
5. Please give back . no 
questions asked. 235 Walsh, 8093. 
Lost Sept 2nd weekend. Keys on green painted chain in vicinity of Alumni or Wash. Call Maura, 4697. 
Lost: somewhere between US 31 and the Architecture bldg on the road to St. Mary's. Prescription glasses, wire rim, in a lime case. Reward. Call 272­1451. 
Lost: one econ text and 2 notebooks from South Dining Hall, lunch Thurs. Very important to get them back. Contact Peggy, 8145. 
WANTED 

Desperately need 2 GA tix tor Purdue game. Call Trace at 283-1889. 
Need 2 GA tix for Purdue game. Call Bob, 283-1889. 
Need home for a male malamute pup, 2'12 months old, until May 1974. Will pay for food and expenses. Call Ken, 272-8879 or 283­3797. 
Desperately need 4 GA tix to Purdue. Call 6816. 
Wanted: one ticket to Purdue game. Call Bob at 8627. 
Must have one Purdue ticket, GA or student. Call Joe, 1132. 
Need 2 GA Purdue tix. Call Bob, 3374. 
• 

: large -$55.00 i!OR CALL REFRIGERATOR i :••••••••••••~~~---~~~-~••••••••••••J 
Sunshine Promotions Presents 


Van Morrison 
nnd 

The Caledonia Express 
Wanted: 2 GA tix tor Purdue. Call Larry, 288­7375. 
Need 4 GA Rice tix. Dave, 6818. 
Wanted: Purdue tix . 2, 4, or 6 -GA. Call Bob, 6931. 
Need 4 to 6 GA tickets for Pitt or Miami. 288-2613. 
Need ride to Dayton, Ohio, this weekend. Will share costs. suzanne, 4919. 
Need 3 Purdue tickets, GA. Call 1548 evenings. 

Desperately need Purdue tix, GA or student. Call Joe, 3663. 
Wanted:  roommate  to  
share  2  bedroom  apt  at  
Turtle Creek.  272-1239.  

Elvis Presley concert tickets tor trade: We have 2 tickets, first row, main floor, Oct. show. Will trade 
for 2 tickets,  rows  1  .  10,  
main floor, Sept show.  Call  
288-8435 or 234-7316.  

and Special Guest 

Dave Loggins 
Sunday Sept. 15 -7:30 P.M. 
Athletic and 
Conwocation Center


NOTRE DAME 
Wanted: 3 or 4 tickets to Elvis Presley concert (either night). Tickets must be together. Call Marty at 289-3751. 
Need 4 Miami GA tickets. Also tickets for any other home game. Chuck, 1592.
. 

Need 6 GA tickets tor Purdue . $110. Call 8164. 
Ride needed from Mich City to NO, 5 days a week. Call Jerry evenings at 874-6324. 
Need ride to Detroit suburb weekend of Sept 21. Can leave Sept 19, 20, 21. Please call Jean, 5384. 
Desperately need two GA tickets for Rice. Will pay top dollar. Call Bill after 7 pm, 8533. 
Like Byrd, Sen. Lowell P. Weicker, R.-Conn., focused on the issue of where, in principle, such extensions of pardon might lead. 
"My definition of equal justice is not restricted to those involved in Watergate and Vietnam draft dodgers," Weick­er said. "There's no end." 
Sen. Daniel K. Inouye, D­Hawaii, reacted similarly: "Are they going to empty out the prisons now?" 
Senate Democratic leader Mike Mansfield of Montana declined comment after the White House announcement. But before the news came out Mansfield had told reporters h~ thought impending Watergate prosecutions should "go ahead" despite the Nixon pardon and its implications. 
Democratic Sens. Alan Cran­ston of California and Warren Magnuson of Washington said general Watergate pardons would be premature at this timP. 
Other Democrats seemed incredulous. Sen. Philip A. Hart, D-Mich., said Ford should be thinking a bout revoking the Nixon pardon instead of extend­ing pardons further. Sen. Frank Moss, D-Utah, said he found it "hard to believe" that Water­gate pardons would be under consideration. 
Sen. John Tower of Texas, the Republican Policy Commit­tee chairman, declined to say what he thought of the new pardon prospect. "In the light of the President's pardon, he said, "it was probably a natural consequence that these other cases would be con­sidered." 
Before he had heard of the White House announcement
' 

Senate Republiean Leader Hu~h Scott of Pennsylvania said he would not want "anything said or done that would interfere with the pending trials," although Ford might properly consider pardons when the trials had run their course. 
:. • ST1 L L 1 NTERESTED :.• : • IN STUDENT UNION :• : • REFRIGERATORS •• :
• 

: •
.:COW£ TO STEPAN CENTER : : FRIDAy SEPT. 13 i 
Brooke urges: 12:00 -4:00 : cessation of : • small -$45.00 i 
--~--------~ --­

CLASSIFIED ADJ 
FOR SALE 

Stereo: 80 bucks without speakers. Can't beat it! Ca II 234-5646. 
Ashai Pentax SPO 11. 
Konica. Autoreflex T with Vivitar Zoom. 85. 205 mm. Call George, 277-0021. 
'75  175 Honda.  Excellent  
condition. SSOO.  Terry. See  
at 818 Blaine.  

'68 Plymouth Fury Ill. 58,000 miles. New tires since June, gOOd cond. $595. 
Bed -Queen size . $75. Coffee table, $15. Stroller, $5. Car seat $12. All items like new. 272-9193. 
Army ROTC uniform and equipment · great shape. Reasonable price. 289-8029. 
1969 Olds 442 convt (blue). $1100. Contact 283-6162 or 272-5498 (after 4 pm). 
NOTICES Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Friday at 4:40. Call Tom Boyer, 272-1807. 
Money? Morissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 . 12:15. 
Navajo squash blossoms, made out of Merenci turquoise. Call 234-5646. 
N. E. Day Care may fit your needs. Students, faculty, or otherwise. Call 233-2233, 233-3865. 
24 hr TV repair. Color TV's $60 and up. 282-1955. 
Bilbo's Birthday . Sept 22. Organizing now tor suitable celebration. Call 6246, 11 . midnight. 
Handmade Indian turquoise jewelry from the Southwest. Rings, bracelets, earrings, and accessories. All very reasonably priced. 287-0076 after 7. 
THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE 12:15-5:00 MWF AND 
11 :00 -1 : 00 & 2 : 30 -5 : 00 TT. THE TICKET OFFICE IS LOCATED ON THE 
SOUTH  END  OF  THE  
SECOND  FLOOR  
LAFORTUNE  (ABOVE  

THE HUDDLE). VAN MORRISON AND SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE. 
Experienced typist wi·ll do: Term papers, manuscripts. Call Jane, 233-5332. 
Richard Brautigan's latest novel, Hawkline Monster, now in stock at Pandora's Books. 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
Residents of Stoneridge and Campus View: if you are interested in playing on our interhall hockey team this year, call Clift or Pete at 272-9895, or stop by 18155 Stoneridge South Drive, Apt. A (after 6:00), by Thursday, Sept 12. 
PERSONALS Father T: We have your name and 9 signs. Escape is out. The Keenan Exiles 
Come one, come all, to the fabulous FARLEY SORIN SQUARE DANCE. Friday 13, Bookstore basketball courts. 
COME AND PRANCE IN YOUR FANCY PANTS AT FRIDAY'S SQUARE DANCE. 
Candace Bergen: 

Keep smiling. Very pretty. 
JLS. 

The fetal  pigs of  America  
wish  to  commend  Tom  
Klein  on  his  switch  from  
pre-med  to  accounting.  

Better you should butcher someone's financial staten ents than us. 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. Van Morrison. Send to J. Geils Rt;1nn Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, lncY.~n....M.0J!:13~ Enclose self­addressed stamp~d envelope. 
Ticket Prices: Bleachers •••••••••••~D 0 Lower Arena ••••••••• S~O 0 
Loge •••• -----------SQG
Platform __ •_.._.••__ S&O 0 Floor Seats •.•••••.•• Sa.OD 

Tickets On Sale: 
Gate 10 Ticket Office, Student Union Ticket Office (3rd Floor Lafortune), Robertson's, St. Joe Bank & Branches, First Bank Downtown, Elkhart Truth. 
.. 
. 

the observer Wednesday, September 11, 1974 
Women athletes attaining club status in three sports 
by Mary Fran Hayes 

organizational meeting will be held for all women interested the 
Notre Dame women are basketball team. Earley expectsseeking recognition of their that 100 women will attend the 

athletic abilities by establishing meeting. "I would like to keep as 

basketball, tennis and fencing as many women as possible. I would 

official Notre Dame club sports. break the group into as manySally Smith, Lyons Hall senior, 
teams as facilities would allow. 
and Mary Clemency, Farley Hall Since this is our first year I do not 

junior, last year felt that the en­want to overextend ourselves. 

thusiasm for women's interhall Therefore I wish to schedule six or 

basketball was strong enough to eight games with the schools in 

attempt its establishment as a club Indiana, Michigan, and Illinois." 

sport. Smith and Clemency, after Earley tentatively sets tryouts for 

corresponding with Napolitano, December and the games for director of club sports, learned February and March. "Practices 

that Jeanne Earley, a graduate should be five days a week from 

student, was interested in par­4:30p.m. to 6:00p.m." anticipates

ticipating in women's sports at Earley. "I would like to see a 

Notre Dame. Earley has a physical Sport's Day, similar to the one at 

education degree from Indiana Indiana University. Four or five University. 

schools would come to Notre Dame 
As a result of the work of and would play short games. I feel 

Clemency, Early and Smith, the that a Sport's Day would get the 

basketball club seems to be well basketball team known," adds under way. Sunday, Sept. 15 at 8 Earley.

P.M. in Farley Hall Chapel, an After proving last Spring that 

Piane arrives on ND cross-country scene 
by Bob Kissel 
It was before most people were awake that a group of varsity cross-country runners finished their daily seven mile morning run. Not all in the group were student..athletes, for one runner was new assistant cross-country and track coach Joe Piane. 
Coach Piane attended Loras College in Dubuque, Iowa where he received his pachelor's degree in business admmistration. When not studying and enjoying college life, Piane found enough time to run cross-country in the fall and the half-mile in the spring. 
"When I was a freshman at Loras, my running career was greatly influenced by Coach Faley," remarked Coach Piane. "Faley, then head track coach at Loras, told me he did not want me running unless I could handle the studies while out for the team." 
Joe Piane went on to a successful collegiate running career, cap­taining the Loras cross-country team his senior year. His times did not put in world class level, but he was consistenly a strong, competitive runner, the type of runner that many times becomes a good coach. 
There is much more to Joe Piane than his running excellence. Following graduation from Loras, Joe Piane spent the next three years in the Peace Corps. "The Peace Corps seemed to me to be an interesting way to do my small part in helping humanity," ex­plained Piane. 
"Notre Dame is an amazing campus ;n its amount of friend­ship. There always seems to be people w :o are ready to sit down and talk I also find the at­mosphere around here electric, and this along with the friendliness is a real plus to anyone." 

"Notre Dame's athletic department has always had a fine reputation," remarked Coach Piane. ''Although track and corss­country are minor sports here at Notre Dame and in the Midwest, I believe they have great potential to become stronger now that we have two coaches to split the duties." Coach Joe Piane is one of those individuals who make Notre Dame .. a special place, but rarely heard about. Whether as a coach or as a human being, Joe Piane always 
has plenty of time to sit down and talk. One can't help but respect and work for a man like Joe Piane. 
"My first year was in Peru where I managed the business end of agricultural co-ops," added Coach Piane. "My assignment in the second and third years was coaching track in Morocco on the regional and national levels. The two years in Morocco gave me a chance to try out the coaching end of athletics. I was pleased that several of my runners competed in the Munich Olympics and the World International Cross-Country meet for Morocco." 
Joe's Peace Corps experiences have been enlightening to his personal outlook. "Many of the people in Morocco had no concept of what or where the U.S. is," remarked Piane. "When I was leaving for home after my three years, some of the people asked if I was taking a· train home. Generally, the people in Peace Corps have good relations with the native people, even in a strong Arab state like Morocco., 
Piane's first year in Peru was a time of realization how much athletics, especially running meant to him. "I was away from running for almost a year in Peru," commented the new coach, "and it was there that I decided to eventually· pursue a master's degree in physical education and also hopefully in coaching." 
"Coach Faley had a great positive influence on me, in terms of running, coaching, and my master's degree from Western Illinois. My coaching philosphy is much like Faley's, the individual should be dedicated to the point of self-discipline and self-motivation. A kid who runs 90-100 miles per week has got motivation, whether it's from a desire toe to run well, peer recognition, or scholarship." 
"I believe the only way to ap­proach an athlete is as an in­dividual. In this way the coach­athlete distinction is more like two people working together for one common goal," explained Piane. 
Although Coach Piane is a relative newcomer to Notre Dame, he has heard of the legends of du Lac. "I came through Catholic education in grammar and high school in the Chicago area--so ND is hardly foreign," added Piane. 
Notre Dame Women could support 
a tennis team, Notre Dame 
students, Betsy Fallon and Jane 
Lammers with Professor Carole 
Moore, this yearestablished ·tennis 
as an official club sport. 
TheWomen's Tennis Team with 
Ms. Moore as coach, held tryouts 
on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 8 & 
9. 33 Women participated in the tournament with a consolation round. From this Tournament 13 women were chosen for the Club; Betsy Fallon, Jane Lammers, Pam Leary, Marianne Murphy, Carol Guckert, Carol Simons, Ann Colbert, Mary Kay Baty, Ann Gardiner, Sue Grace, Debbie Grady, Carolyn Schiffelf, Carmel Burke. The team has two assistant coaches, John Donahue and Tom Haywood, as well as a team manager, Andrea Smith. 
Practices are held Monday thru Friday from 5:45 to 6:45p.m. The season opener is an away maten against Purdue on Sept. 21. Other opponents will be Northwestern, DePauw, Ball State, Valparaise and St. Mary's. 
The women's fencing team, a club sport for four years, has their schedule ready for the new season. Practices began Monday, Sept. 9 and the season opens against Tri State on Jan. 17. Other teams will be from Michigan, Indiana and Ohio with possible the addition of 
Sailors meet 

The Notre Dame Sailing Team, the oldest minor sport on campus, is in its 27th year of operation. Last spring, the team was one of the best in the Midwest. The team finished second in the Midwest Championships, obtaining the right to represent the Midwest in the North American Dinghy Championships, held in Boston. 
By having both a club and a team structure, the needs of not only those who like to race but those who also like to pleasure sail are being fulfilled. Lessons are given for the new sailors on every available day, at their own con­venience. This is a very important point because you do not have to know how to sail to join, club members wilJ gladly teach you. The team is scheduled for many intercollegiate regattas this fall, and everyone is invited to attend them. Sailing is a co-ed sport anci there are no limitations on fresh­
man or girls being able to sail. 
~­
. ­

The present fleet includes 9 thirteen foot high performance sloops known as Flying .·Juniors. The boats are available to mem­bers and guests on weekdays and weekends on ..St. Joes Lake and lessons will always be available. This Wednesday is the newcomers meeting and all are invited, just come and visit. Find out what sailing is all about. The meeting will be held in Rm. 204 of the Engineering Building at 6: 30 p.m.. Ail faculty and students of Notre Dme and St. Mary's are invited to attend. 

: .' ·~, :~. A• '·
/ 


'·~··· 
·' it'. " . 

,,..,,... . ~"'-_4, .......,..., •~· ; <C_ . 
. . "'f-,y-_. ~ .,....f~ 
. -. -· :4 :' '.. ;'. . •. -~ 
t~~:_·.,. 
-li~ 
--~,­
~·Wii!~.... ~;-_.·;.;;,.;<1···' 
. s(fii iilii ..• 
*":­

.. 
Jane Lammas showing her backhand form at the recent Women's 
Tournament. 

an East Coast team. The women's practices are held with the male 
varsity  practice,  with  coaches  
DeCicio,  Hosinski  and  Tayler  
sharing  the  coaching  duties.  
Practices  are  five  days  a  week  

from 4 to 6 p.m. Three home matches are anticipated this year. The team members are: Cindy Rebholz (Captain), Sally Fisher, Kathy Valdiserri, Jone Bonivert, 
Sue Krakora and Ann Werner., 
from both St. Mary's and Notre 
Dame. 

All three teams have been 
assured of the same treatment as 
the male club sports and all three 
teams hope to eventually attain 
varsity status. Carole Moore feels 
that the University will eventually 
accept about five women teams as 
varsity teams in order to complete 
their coeducation. 




DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. '74 Gen'l Fea,ures Corp. 
ACROSS  50 Gravies  22 Quizzes  
1 Body in orbit  54 Leading force  24 Killed  
6 Former prize  !58 Breathing pore  27 Arab asset  
fighter  in plants  29 Turkey's neigh­ 
10 Skillful  59 Nutmeg state:  bor!Var.  
14 Circumvent  Abbr.  30 Farm enclosure  
15 Arm bone  60 Birds of prey  31 Recognized 
16 Tortosa's river  61 Useful kitchen  32 Parts of trains  
17 Monkey's cousin  device  33 Encourage 
18 Lease  62 -were (so to  34 Snack  
19 Before long  speak)  36 Liquid measures  
20 Haul up and se­ 63 Very soft  38 Security or  
cure with small  mineral  pledge  
rope: Naut.  64 Swedish island  39 Knight's cover­ 
21 Ave and aloha  65 Challenge  ing 
23 Spirited horses  66 Court cry  40 Came in contact  
25 Hoffmann's  67 Nourishes ,  with  
works  DOWN  42 French explorer 
26 Performed alone  1 Gauls, Britons,  45 Allowable  
28 Adhere  etc.  margin 
32 Covered part of  2 Open to view  46 "-Eden"  
a truck  3 Mrs. Eisenhower 47 Lustrous, dark­ 
35 Help  4 Draws out  red mineral  
36 Feather: Greek  5 Mollusk that  49 Camera product  
37 One of the  bores into wood  51 Blurs of light 
Adamses  6 Town: Colloq.  around an image 
40 Make a certain  7 Gave warning  52 Make corrections  
common error  8 Group of nine  53 Orange-red 
41 Yield  9 Badgerlike  stones  
42 Man's nickname  animal  54 Mackerel's  
43 Suburb of  10 Stopped  relative  
London  11 Dark  55 Affectation  
44 Vapor  12 Fairy tale prince, 56 Star in Pegasus 
45 --Day saint  at times  57 U.S. Army 
48 Ring barriers  13 Heavy weight  awards  










