------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
Oil The Inside 

Ruckleshaus 
••. pg. 3 

Carmichael 
... pg. 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No, 118 
Wednesday, May 1, 1974 

Faculty split on revisions 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 
The newly proposed Academic Code met both support and criticism yesterday as seven faculty members responded to a telephone survey conducted by the Observer to guage initial faculty reaction to the formalization of University academic practices. 
More than dozen faculty members were contacted last night, but only seven were willing to comment. The remainder preferred to withhold their opinions until they had had op­portunity to study the proposals. All but one indicated they had not yet seen the proposal, which has not been formally distributed to the faculty as yet, and the one that had seen it ad­mitted he had only caught a glimpse of it. In fact, several reported they recieved their first and only knowledge of the Academic Code while reading either Friday's or Tuesday's Observer. 
Said one, quoting the American humorist Will Rogers, "All I know is what I read in the papers." 
The seven respondents dealt chiefly with the proposal to raise the cut-off point for the Dean's Honor List from the present 3.25 average to a 3.5 average, a measure presumably designed to reduce the large number of students earning spots on the list. A few touched on the recom­mendation to itnpose an additionail charge for credit hours taken in excesS of a 17-hour limit. 
raise the Dean's List? 
Professor John Houck of the College of Business Administration, wonders what all the excitement is about. He said, "At other colleges, such as Harvard, they take pride in having a large number of students achieve honors." 
Houck also brought up a point that if the University does "take in better people, ob­viously we should have better people coming out, so wh do we need to put an umbrella of bell-shaped curve in use?" 
Assistant Professor Government John Roos advocates the recommendation. "I'm in favor of it," he stated, "or else abolish it. If it's not really the distinction it's supposed to be, why have it at all?" 
Norman Haaser, assistant chairman of the Match Department, is curious as to what is currently done with the list. He observed, "This one strikes me as a little strange because my son has been on it for the last 5 semesters and I haven't seen anything in the papers about it. I just don't know what they do with it." Haaser had previously referred to the common practice among other universities and colleges of releasing the names of Dean's List students to their hometown newspspaers. 
"Out of fair comparison (with other colleges)," Haaser concluded, "I would think it would be OK to have more of our students on the Dean's List." 
Julian Pleasants, assistant professor of microbiology, echoed Haaser's sentiments, saying, "Well, it always seemed to me that Notre Dame has high class students to begin with, so I don't really see why a considerable number of them can't be on the Dean's List." To justify his opinion, Pleasants spoke ofthe rigorous selection process students go through just to be admitted to the University, and decided, "The students just have to be good." 
The Director of the American Studies 
Program, Ronald Weber, believes the Dean's 
List cut-off pointhas to rise in order make the 
distinction more meaningful. He said, "3.25 
doesn't indicate enough any more as grades have 
risen. The cut-off point has to rise to make the 
honor more meaningful and more realistic." 
According to John Lucey, associate professor 
of aeronautical and mechanical engineering, 
there is one alternative to the proposal. "I think 
what the University needs is to have people 
(continued on page6) 

Revisions topic of HPC meeting 
by Sue Nash Staff Reporter 
Dis~ussion at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting last mght centered on the proposed parietals' revisions published in Monday's Observer. 
Bob Connolly, chairman of the Student Life Councils' Planning and Policy Committee, criticized the HPC lette~ on two co.unts. He noted. that the days of con-' frontmg people m a haphazard fashion are long gone. He stressed the need of presenting a viable, well­supported plan. 
Connolly also maintained that the publishing of the HPC letter in the Observer was detrimental to the cause. The letter would prompt negative response from alumni and the new measures would be quashed by the trustees before they were ever introduced. 
In order to more accurately determine student feeling on the parietals' situation, Connolly and Student Body Vice President Frank Flanagan have designed a questionnaire withthe help of the sociology department. This will be circulated to the hall presidents on Thursday for distribution to every fifth st~dent o~ the hall :osters. Response to this survey w1ll prov1de matenal on which to base a recom­mendation on parietals to be formulated at next Monday's SLC meeting. 
. At last .night's meeting Rich Morton, president of F1sher, d1scussed the possibility of Holy Cross 
· residents gaining access to parking space behind St. Joseph Hall. Dean of Students John Macheca reacted favorably to this proposition at a meeting last Thur­sday. Before this can be effected, approval of the Holy Cross fathers, who own the property, is needed and St. Joseph's status must be changed from off-campus to on-campus. 
. Lighting. and repavement of the lot are being con­Sidered to 1mprove safety. Reservations of the D2lot for seniors only is also being considered for next year. 
The new executive co-ordinator of the HPC Tom Porter, president of Grace Hall, was introduc~d last evening. He will serve as head of all inter-hall ac­tivities commissions, his chief responsibility being to take charge of An Tostal. 
Policies vary at other schools 
by Tom Kruczek Staff Reporter 

In light of the controversy created over the proposed revisions in the Academic Code, the Observer yesterday contacted six nearby universities in an attempt to find out other school policies concerning academic regulations. 
Each of the universities were asked questions concerning the six primary issues in the proposed academic code. Questions were directed in regard to maximum 
hour-load cut-policy before and after vacations, Dean's List requirements, leave-of-absence policy, university curve for grading purposes and and the availability of a grievance board. 
James Vice, assistant dean of students at the University of Chicago stated that at this university there is a standard, flat .rate paid for going over the four­course limit. The professor is the 
final judge on class cuts, Vice continued, as well as on all matters 'Concerning grades. No standard ·Uf!iversity curve exists. The· Dean's List requirement is at a 3.25 ma~k out of a scale of 4.0. 
Vice also explained that if there is any question concerning cheating on a test, this problem as well As similar problems go through\ the Dean of Students, Charles • O'Connell. Vice em­phasized however, that although the dean of students does on rare occasions enter into a problem concerning grades, it is almost entirely left up t~ the discretion of the professor. l 
The University of Chicag o also allows a student to withdraw from the school at a semester's end for any reason, and to re-enter if he was in good standing-as far as the university was concerned when he left. ; 
Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin espoused many of the same codes which exist at Chicago. Executive Vice President Quade told the Observer that a no-cut policy does exist for the university prior to vacations. 
Students may withdraw at a semester's end for aey reason and may return later for enrollment from where they left off. For undergraduates over the 18-hour enrollment maximum a charge is made for the extra hours at the same rate of regular tuition. 
No university curve has been established at Marquette, but the Dean's List is higher than it is presently at Notre Dame. In order to qualify for the Dean's List, the student must have a grade point average of 3.4. If a problem does exist as far as grading is con­cerned, Quade related that "each department has it's own review, and it has worked well." 
"I am pleased to say," he con­tinued, "that the system has not had to be used very much, but when it has been called upon, it has worked." 
Loyola University in Chicago was contacted next. Through the office of the assistant dean, it was learned that the Dean's List requirement is a 3.3 average, as opposed to the 3.5 requirement proposed by Notre Dame Provost James T. Burtchaell. 
Loyola does not have an absece policy before vacations. Any credit-hours over the set maximum of 18 cost the student a fee of $25 per hou. A student may withdraw for any reason, and may return to finish where he left off any time. 
Loyola differed from the two universities previously mentioned in that it does have a university curve. An undergraduate board composed of faculty and students will hear any grievance con­cerning grades, but first the stuent is encouraged to meet with the professor involved and the dean of the department, the Observer was told. 
Indiana State University at 
Terre Haute provided the most 
liberal code, with Dr. Maurice 
Townsend, vice-president of 
academic affairs, stressing the 
importance of freedom to the 
professor as well as the student. No charge is placed on the students for extra hours, but a minimum load of 16 credits is , required. Dean's List at ISU is 3.0 
or higher, and there is no 
university curve. 

Townsend emphasized the im­portance of freedom at ISU. "We have no policy toward cutting the day before or after a vacation, because we feel that it is up to the individual instructors to set the policy." He also related that a person can drop out from the university, and "no negative consequences will result." 
"As for cheating, the student government has a review board before which a person can take a complaint," Townsend added. "But as for grades, it's freedom across the board for our professors, and it's strictly up to them." 
Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois proved to be one of the more expensive schools contacted. William Bradford associate provost of the university related that for going over the four­course limit, a student has to pay $335 per class. 
No policy has been adopted for class cuts prior to a vacation, with a great deal of freedom being granted to the individual professor. No university curve is published, because of the school's desire for freedom for its professors. Dean's List is 3.0 out of a possible 4.0. 
Bradford also illuminated upon the school's policy as far as grievances are concerned. "It is primarily judicated between the college and the individual. There is an appeals board composed of faculty and students that handles discipline and academic problems, and it has been quite successful," he explained. 
Indiana University was the final school to respond to the Observer, relating what turned out to be about the average of the other schools contacted. 
Dean Charles Hagin of Indiana University at Bloomington stated that the Dean's List requirement is 
3.3. Also a flat rate is charged for between 12 and 17 hours. The student who goes over 17 hours is charged on an hourly basis. 
~agin explained that no policy ex1sts for attendance of classes prior to a vacation, and there is "in general no regulation of at­tendance, but the professor can set any kind of policy that he wants." 
The policy at IU is similar to other schools in that students can drop out and return if they leave in good standing. Hagin also stated that at IU no university curve is used, because "curves are not applicable to small classes." 
Hagin continued that "A good deal of freedom exists for in­structors." He also added though that as far as grievances are concerned they are handled within the individual colleges. 
The Observer also contacted Ohio State and Purdue but could get no information from the schools because the heads of their academic affairs departments could not be reached for comment. 
Wednesday, May 1. 1974
the observer 
warld 


briefs 
DETROIT (UPI) -A man despondent because he didn't have a job pulled his infant son from bed Tuesday and threw him out a thirdl floor window, 1polic'e said. When his common-law wife ran screaming from the apartment on Detroit's west side, the man then t9ssed his young dam!hter ont of the win®w, they said. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Senate Tuesday confirmed William 
E. Simon asTreasury~ecretary. 
The Simon nomination, 9!1~ 'of the least controversial major appointments of the Nixon administration, was routinely brought to the Senate floor by Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield and was passed by voice vote with no debate. 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI)-A prison inmate who claims to be a leader of the Symbionese Liberation Army appealed Tuesday to Patricia Hearst's kidnappers Ito free her by Friday in order to win $4 million food ransom for poor people. 
11ft campu• ·tllday 
1 p.m. baseball bowling green u (double header) baseball field 
2 p.m. tennis bowling green u. tennis courts 
3:30 seminar "applications of solar energy" by dr. sparrow, u. of minn. spon. by areospace 303 eng. bid. 
4:30 ceremony nrotc awards stepan 5 & 7 p.m. film "the dutchman" spon. by balck studeies eng. aud. 6:30p.m. meeting circle k club-election of officers puzzle room. bp 
7:30 lecture "christianity and african socialism" by ronald taylor. 
carroll hall 8 p.m. meetinginpirg, project reports and discussion 1-c Ia fortune' 
8:15 recital william stahl, french horn; william cerny, plano spon. by music dept. lib. aud. 
4:30 p.m. ceremony artoc spring awards stepan 7 p.m. meeeting astronomy club-elections and futre 343 nsh 
7:30 charismatic lntro to charismatic renewal holy cross hall annex 
(butler bldg.) 8 p.m. lecture "a harvard Interval" by msgr. john elllc, u. of san fran. spon. by hlst dept. lib. aud. 8 p.m. concert leon russell ace S6 & $4 
8 p.m. lecture plet schoonenberg, spon. by theo dept. galvin aud. 8& 10 p.m. film "camelot" sponsored by cac eng. aud. $1.00 
8:15 concert nd orchestra conducted by dr. charles blondo wash. hall free 
8:30 
p.m. meeting charismatic prayer holy cross hall 

8:30 
drama "beggars's opera" nd-smc theatre o'laughlin $2.50 students $2.00 all day long tennis irish lnvltatlonals tennis courts 10 a.m. seminar plet schoonenberg, spon. by theo dept.lib. aud. 3:25p.m. lecture "polutlon control aspects of fluidized bed com­bustion" by erwin earls, argonne n'tal.labs, spon. by ce 269 chem eng bid. 5 p.m. mass and dinner bulla shed 8 p.m. duplicate bridge members and guests welcome university 


club 8 & 10 p.m. film "camelot" eng. aud. $1.00 
8:30 p.m. drama "beggar's opera" o'laughlin 1 p.m. baseball marion college (double header) baseball field 6:30p.m. film chinese film, spon. by lntrn'tal stu. org.lib. aud. 1 p.m. concert south quad free free free free free 
wed-fri freshman humanities festival, "the horror, the horror" y'all come 2ndla fortune floor 1-4 p'm' wed-frl art exhibition paintings by carol pavla isis gallery free 2 p.m. until May 19 art exhibition clowns on fire, all mediums o'shag gallery friday 9 p.m-1 a.m. smc coffeehouse frank martin, joe klockenk~m r, tri~~ chuck beck-soda 30 cents lower cafeteria 
··············-········ WE NEED YDUR 1:\ HELP! \Ill 
Find out what you cando·1or the poor in Southeast Asia 
Thomas A. Dooley Foundation South Bend Committee 
Organizational Meeting Wednesday, May 8 
7:30 PM 409 W. Jefferson, So. Bend 
or write: 
P.O. Box 1195, So. Bend 
Calif. drivers 



If you compare, 
in a hurry 
you'll select ltna... 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. <UPI) 
If you don't compare,
-So many California motorists are ignoring the 55 mile per hour speed limit that the state 
don't say we didn't warn you!
highway patrol could make 100,000 arrests a day if it had enough men, patrol Commis­
JIM CAMPBELL sioner Walter Pudinski said 
120 W. LaSalle Street Monday. 
Suite 1001 
Pudinski said highway patrol 
South Bend, indiana 
1m
speed studies during March and 
233-8207 ' • HI
April sllowed 70 per · cent of 
The JEtna College Plan ...
vehicles are exceeding the 55 
Life Insurance for students LIFE&cAsuALTY
m.p.h. limit on rural freeways and up to 45 per cent on the 
J!Etna Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut San Diego and Los Angeles urban freeways. 
"Spe~d enforcement is ap­proachmg the saturation point, 
RESERVATIONS 
based on the number of men we 
:r: 
284-4176
c~n put on the road at any 
r-
w ND
giVen time," Pudinski said. "Violation percentages indicate we could arrest 100,000 per day if we had enough men and 
Student • Faculty 
equipment." 
SMC 
ND-SMC Staff
Pudinski said his 4 900 uniformed traffic patrol~en 
'200
would arrest a record 100,000 

THEATRE 
speeders this month-triple the 
SEASON 1973-74
number cited in April of last year. Patrolmen are now arresti'ng an average 3,623 speeding drivers per day. 

"The need to conserve energy 
John Gay's ribald musical romp
will exists, and as long as the law is on the books it will be 
Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. 
enforced," he said. 
. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
Thursday, May 2 at 8:00 
Tickets are $6.00 and $4.00 NOW ON SALE at the ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office. 
WITH THE GAP BAND 




Observer Party 
Sunday May 5th 
from 8 p.m. until ??? -Heidleberg Inn -transportation will 
be provided leave circle at 7&8 p.m. 

The Observer is published dally 

-all staff members invited with one gue~t
during the college semester except vacations by the shJcMnts ot ttle University•of Notre Dame and St. 

For further info: call AI 3317 
Mary's Colleg1. Subscriptions may be purchased for M per semester (S1• per YNt") from The 

Fred 1178 
Oltserver Box Q, Notre Dame, " Indiana 16556. Second class., 

-
9:

... Bill 8858 
postage Rfld, Notre Dame, IJW. 
46556. 

Wednesday, May 1, 1974 the observer 3 
Comments on issues 

1 
1
Ruckleshaus fields students' questions 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 
Senior Clas Fellow William 
Ruckleshaus fielded questioas 
before a group of students and 
newsmen in the Library Lounge 
yesterday morning. · 
The meeting, which was billed as an informal rap session, quickly took on the air of a press con­ference as Ruckleshaus com­mented on various topics raised by students ranging from the recent Mitchell-8tans acquittal to advice for graduating seniors. 
One student raised a question concerning a statement from ~n anonymous White House offictal 




Ed Deavers 
named new 


band aide 

The appointment of Edward Deavers of Marietta, Ga., as a graduate assistant with the Notre Dame Bands has been announced by Robert F. O'Brien, associate proffessor of music and director of the bands. The recipient of a bachelor's degreee in music education at Jacksonville State University in Alabama will begin his duties in September. 
Deavers will assist O'Brien and James Phillips, assistant director, in the planning and direction of marching, varsity and concert band progrmas. Also partcipating in the band direction is Roger Brown, a graduate student in music from Lake Wales, Fla. 
Deavers performs on the French horn and has studeied under David Bayne Dobbins, Dr. J. Harris Mitchell, and both Freddy and Dan Martin. He has received numerous awards for his marching and concert band performances and was nominated for the Governor's Honor Program in 1969, as well as the McEachrn High School En­dowment Fund Scholarship in 1970. 

concerning the credibility of Jqhn Dean's te&tiomay now that Mit­chell and Stans had been acquitted. 
The official had stated in a news release that the acquittal was proof that Dean was a liar. 
Ruckleshaus commented that he felt that the decision was not based on disbelief in Dean's testimony. Instead, said Ruckleshaus, lbe prosecution failed in its job to prove without doubt that Mitchell and Stans were guilty. The former Assistant Attorney General did note, however, that Dean's own admission of guilt before the Watergate Committee has diminished !lis credibility as tJl witness. 
TT 
Ruckleshaus also made seeral comments on impeachment. Speaking as a practicing lawyer, Ruckleshaus believed that lhe House Committee for Jm~ peachment is following the proper legal angle in their investigation. 
"Because Nixon has not givsn the tapes as asked by ijte Committee," stated Ruckleshaus, •• he may be guilty by adverse inference. This means that his failure to fully comply with the investigation may be con­sidered proof that he is guilty and it is admissable evidence in court." 
Ruckleshaus refused to com­ment on whether he thought Nixon had committed offenses deserving of impeachment. "For a period of eighty days," said Ruckleshaus, "I ran the actual investigation. People might be prejudiced by any statement I make concerning the case because I had access to top level material pertaining to the case. This would be breaking the ethical code I am subject to a§ a member of the bar." 
Ruckleshaus was asked if he was satisfied the standards he set for pollution control while he was t}l.e head of the Environment'al Protection Agency. 
Ruckleshaus stated that pollution standards are always subject to more change as more scientific research is done into pollution health hazards. "The future decisions of the EPA," stated Ruckleshaus, "must be 
HAVE A GREAT SUMMER 
You'll need the right apparel to get the most out of your sun time. Well, that's where we come in; we've got it all. Come. See. 
ON THE CAMPUS .. ,. NOTRE DAMf 
made by weighing the health danger to society by pollution against any advantage the society 
might  gain  because  of  
technology."  
Ruckleshaus served  as  an  in­ 

~erim Director of the FBI and l::ommented on the question of the great amont of records being kept :m citizens by the government as well as industry. 
"There is a need across the board in this country," said Ruckleshaus, "to review the actual function of keeping records on citizens. Government and industry must draw a line where records kept on people are actually an invasion of their privacy. 
Congress is paying enough at­tention to the problem, however, 


and I think that legislation will William Ruckleshaus answers questions from students in the soon be passed that will bring ..•L~i;b~ra~r~y~L~ou~n~g~e··~(~P~h·o~to;j_~b!y~;:Ma~r~ia~G:a:;.ll::a:.llg~h::;e::,r.~)~-~~~--~~~~~~~~-.
adequate safeguards to the record-'till • 
k~~~~ts~~~:~~: asked to make 
a statement concerning public financing of political campaigns. 
He felt that a mix was needed between public financing and personal contributions but that limits must be set as well as strict1 
records kept of such personal
contributions. Ruckleshaus, who has recentl) establishied his own law firm, 
stated that he was pleaced to
receive the honor of being selected Senior Class Fellow, and he offered 
~:s~oll~~~~~i:::vice to the Senior 
"The value system our society was founded on is in trouble and people are adrift in this countrylooking for convictions. You must all recognize that if you get into 
government or anything else yo
must have some set· of values b) which to judge your actions." 



m c n .., h a i ' ItyIIng


m e n,S ha-( 5t y1·n 
~ 
3
-1 t,t;1 ..
~.."f' A ; ­
## _, W • I • ## 

•WHATEVE R T H E S T y L E I T 'S A 
_ s·~~or~~,

255 8600 
, ~·~ " ' ---.­
4
..d_'p 
~111.. ~\fl~\S 
•r .~~ 
• -.1
S•~ HAIR CARE FOR MEN 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544 
lttl<iiiUJtt KIIIWIII'r r (JMI'Ar.l OIIIIUtl Mt(HtGAN 41\])6 





Love tap. 
From one beer lover to another. 


---------------~----­
...~. .,1 . • ' 
the observer

4 
Wednesday, May 1, 1974 


ATTENTION 

OFF CAMPUS

SMC snack shop to be remodeled 

RENTERS 


Ever want to get a hamburger, sit in a comfortable, relaxing at­mosphere, and talk with friends? Or perhaps you'd like to study where there would be quiet, as well as a fresh cup of coffee. Perhaps, too, if you have been looking for such a place on campus, your search hasn't been too successful. 
A solution is on the way, though, as St. Mary's Snack Shop un­dergoes remodeling this summer. 
Carpeting, new sound and lighting systems, and moveable "conversation units" for quiet study of talking are among in­novations planned by the Cof­feeshop Committee. 
This Committee, under the 
direction of Dean of Students Kern 
Mulany was formed last fall by 
SMC President Dr. Edward Henry 
to investigate remodelling 
possibilities and select what they 
felt to be the most suitable 
arrangement. 
Members of thd committee in­
clude: Mulany, Sr. Basic Anthony, 
Vice-President for Academic 
Affairs, sophomore Kathy 
Carrigan, and SAGA Manager 
Crawford Cassell. 
According to Carrigan, "indoor­
outdoor carpeting will be laid down 
on the floor. The mural presently 
on the back wall of the shop will 
hopefully be replaced by a cor­
ckboard, which will be used for 
displays by the art department." 
New murals on the side walls are 
also expected. 
During the Friday night coffee 
house, another corkboard will be 
placed in front of the fountain, she 
continued. This will serve as a 
backdrop for a stage which can be 
moved in front of· it. 
Another committee plan isthe 
installment of "conversation 
units." According to present 
plans, these will be five feet high, 
moveable, free-standing T-shaped 
partitions, made of a steel case 
with acoustic backing. 
"We didn't want to have booths," 
sho noted, "but ~e_ wanted to 


GO IRISH! 
0 
Is there a bowl game in your future? 

Answer:  Yes  
Where:  Orang e  Bowl, perhaps  
If  you  decide  to  go  there,  consider  

reservations now, avoid later disap­pointment. Fly, drive or train to Miami, December 27, Board the SS FLAVIA for exciting 3-Day Cruise to Nassau. Return to Miami, 3 nights hotel, Orange Bowl Football Ticket includes. A Great Package. 
Write for brochure today! Limited space available. Robertson Travel Post Inc. 2732 CAHABA Road Mountain Brook, Alabama 35223 

't ~~;/ • 
:.J~·of'ii'~P.ur.J..lth,y.~a.~ of,,9.wl T.r..~vel~.M·· 
provid«;! a place (or quiet." 
These partitions will be on eitner side of the snack shop, while the center will, contain dining tables. 
Other plans call for improved acoustic and lighting systems. 
"In the past, the problem has been that the coffee house was very noisy," Carrigan commented. 
Following renovation, the dining 
hall's present sound system will be 
wired to include the snack shop. 
Dimmer switches will be installed. 
In making the remodeling plans, she continued, "we wanted to provide a warmer atmosphere. We also wanted to make the plans flexible for years to come, so that changes made would be univer­sally acceptable and adaptable to other uses." 
The Committee estimated 
renovation costs, including car­
peting,. furniture, room dividers, 
panelling, and lighting, at $10,000. 
Dr. Henry allocated $5,000 from 
the college, while SMC Student 
Government donated the 
remaining $5,000. 
Plans for the coffee shop renovation began last fall, said Carrigan. Fr. Roger Cormier, C.S.C., formerly with St. Mary's Campus Ministry, originally drew up minor changes for the Friday night coffee house, held in the coffee shop. 
Then, he and students working on the weekly coffee house recognized the need for a new social area on campus, and saw that the coffee shop could provide such a service. 
Surveys were sent to students, concerning their use of the coffee shop, and requesting suggestions for remodelling. 
75 per cent of the 355 students responding indicated that they used the coffee shop with varying frequency, and 67 per cent said that they would use it more if it provided a different atmosphere. 
Working with the suggestions it received, the committee set to work with four Notre Dame ar­chitecture students to draw up plans. 
"The room is now dead and 
dreary, and no one congregates 
there," commented Mulany. 
"Campuses need an outlet where 
students can get together in a 
casual comfortable atmosphere." 
Throughout the planning, she 
~ontinued, the committee hoped to 
make the snackshop a "real 
community gathering-place." 
If the Indiana drinking age were 
lowered, Mulaney speculated that 
the coffee shop might get a license, 
not to condone beer brawls, but to 
introduce a "controlled social 
atmosphere" to the campus. 
The Dean emphasized that she 
wants the commuter students "to 
feel that this is their place on 
Book exchange planned by SU 
by Joe LaFlare Staff Reporter 
The Student Union will again sponsor a book exchange program next August. All students wishing to buy or sell books may do so at that time. 
According to Rick Golden, Services Commissioner, • 'Students will get the price which they ask for the books, since they determine it themselves." He emphasized that this is the best alternative to trading them in at the bookstore and urges all students to keep their books until August. Further details will be available at the beginning of the school year. 

r--------------------------·
I . I
HIGHEST  
ii  C AS H PAID FOR BOOKS  iI  
II  BRING THEM TO:  II  
I  I  
Ii  NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE  II  
I  LAST TWO DAvs OF CLASSES  I  
I  I  
I I  MON.-TUES.  MAY 6-7  I I  
I  I  
I1I  BRING ALL BOOKS WHETHER USED ON THIS CAMPUS OR NOT  III  
II  NEBRASKA BOOK COMPANY  II  
I L. ' . ' ' :..l ..J..:~ -1 ~ r,. ~  "~ , • "· •.1 "" WORLD's LARGEST COLLEGE JOBBER I'. > •• ' ·.,.•• ' • . •. "L· • • • .., • • • • . • • '{ I.y ..,..~.~.. {.t\t"'.. "•~-'*~t•.•.. ~f... t\r.·~~-~~~J.\.{{~r.·~.'\11."1· ,.:t••'tJ•ta,·,,~··t, •.:;. ... ~. -..., ~ ~' •• v.f 1 ~ I' ~ t. t. t: '..:: -~ c.. fi ·••. t '... t 1;. t "' ~ t .t.·1' t ~ ~ , ·• ... ,..., t , r + ,. l ~ , # •• J ~ •. • ~ ~ , •  

~-----~~-~-~-~~~~~~~~-~~~-· 
House at 810 E. Napolean, 2 

campus, both during the day and at 
blocks from stoplight. 5 

night." She sees the new coffee 
bedrooms, 1&1-2 baths. 

shop as an opportunity for all st­
For fall. Call before Maydents to get togther with one 
12, 287-7818. 
another more. 
Also, 2 houses for sum­mer rental. 

Tonight at the 
SENIOR BAR 
It's Senior Night! 25¢ Pints. Open at 4:00 
* * * * 
Tomorrow-Thursday May 2 It's 
CROW LIGHT NIGHT: 
All Whiskey Drinks with 
Crow Light Are 2 for 1 
* * * * 
Come in and sign up for the canoe race nnd other Senior Week activities. 
--~-----~-~-----~------------, 
Wednesday, May 1, 1974 the observer 
5 

Speaks at O'Shag 
Carmichael attacks U.S. capitalism 
by Terry Keeney News Editor 
Black socialist leader Stokely Carmichael attacked American capitalistic institutions yesterday in a lecture to an overflow crowd in O'Shaughnessy Hall. His ap­pearance on campus was spon­sored by the Black Studies Program. 
In an Observer interview following the lecture, Carmichael discussed the future of the black movement in America and his role in it. 
Carmichael was active in the 
civil rights movement in the late 
1960's as chairman of the Student 
Non-violent Co-ordinating Com­
mittee (SNCC). In 1967 Car­
michsel resigned as SNCC 
chairman for what he termed 
"ideological differences" and was 
expelled from the SNCC the next 
year. 
Carmichael now resides in 
Guinea were he hopes to mobilize 
an international movement of 
blacks. 
"Guinea is the vanguard of the 
African revolution," said Car­
michael, who hopes to influence 
the American black movement. 
"Guinea is a strong base from 
which to fight American im­
perialism," he also observed. 
In Guinea Carmichael has 
helped to organize the All-African 
People's Party to further the Pan­
African movement among not 
only Africans, but all black people 
of the world. 
"We're an international party," 
Carmichael noted. "Where the 
black man is --thats where we 
are." ' 
The civil rights movement has 
made great strides in America. 
But Carmichael contends that only 

Stokely Carmichael spoke to an overflow crowd at O'Shaughnessy Hall yesterday. (Photo by Maria Gallagher.) 
in quantity, not quality, has the life of the American black improved. "The change in quantity is big, very big," he noted. "You go from 3 Congressmen to 14 Congressmen -that's big quantity. You go from 
o to 60 black mayors _ that's bigquantity " 
· 
Carmichael however, believes that 
qualitative gains are also 
necessary for the advancement of 
the black race in America. "The 
enemy will seek to define progress 
as quantitative things, not as 
qualitative gains,, he said. 
"People expect qualitative change 
and quantitative change to come 
at the same time." 
The black movement means more than just liberties for blacks, according to Carmochael. It is aimed primarily at capitalist in­stitutions controlled by whites. "The black movement has historically always been against capitalism," he pointed out. 
Although the American black struggle is no longer as visible as it once was five years ago, Car­michael insists that the struggle is continuing even more intensly in the statelegislatures, the city halls 

Student union finds su.mmer storage 
by Joe La Flare Staff Reporter 
The Student Union announced yesterday that .there will be summer storage available in the Marycrest Complex on Western Avenue. 
According to Rick Golden, services commissioner, the "pick­up" for storage items will com­mence May 10 and continue through May 13 from 10:00 A.M. to 4:00P.M. The central location will be at the bookstore parking lot. 
All articles must be boxed properly. Golden issued the following guidelines: 
1} All shelves must be taped together. 
2) All items must be identified with 
the owner's name, hall, ID ' number, and next year's ad­
dress in at least four places.
3) All lamps, fans, and other small, loose items must be boxed. 
Furthermore, the Student Union will not be albe to store bikes, 
(continued on page 6) 
an.~ elsewnere. . 
The ,struggle _IS on ~ll those fron~s •.. he sa•?· notm~ the possibility of vwlence If" the s~ruggle does not succee~. The highest f~rm of struggle 1s armed struggle, he warned. 
Carmichael's visit to Notre Dame is part of his effort to "raise the consciousness" of students, especially black students, con­cerning his notions of socialist revolt. Student support for this movement is important for Car­michael, because "students offer a base that can be mobilized." 
Carmichael was pleased with 
the Notre Dame audience. "I found the reception very good," he said, "but I found the students to be very critical." 
Carmichael, however, did agree with Dr. Joseph Scott, chairman of the Notre Dame Black Studies Program, who noted that Carm­


This Summer on Wooded Campus in Chicago, June 24-Aug. 7 Prepare for the Fastest Growing Field in Education 
(GRADUATE CREDIT AT NO EXTRA COST) 
For Information: MMT-0 1010 W. Chicago Ave. Chicago, Ill. 60622 
:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;_~-'
f' """ 
STUDENTS * FACULTY * STAFF 
MAY 7th PRIMARY 
The Portage Township Trustee will be elected to manage an office which deals with PEOPLE WHO NEED HELP. Of the six candidates, one man will assure that this office will be run with respect and fairness. 
********************************************** 
*: People who care will vote *~ 
* *
i* Ralph Weissert i* 
* *
* *
i Portage Township Trustee : * *
1Machine No. 33-c Line 3 i 
:********************************************~ 
1 ~-, \' ' .:; -' ...-·. I} :) f '• fil T~ ., •• f . ..-.,,., 


Wednesday, May 1, 1974 
Mulaney heads for West Coast 
SMC Dean of Students resigns 
by Pattie Cooney St. Mary's Editor 

Kathleen E. Mulaney, dean of students at St. Mary's College, has resigned. Mulaney tendered her resignation in January. It will become effective July 1. 
"My decision to resign is entirely personal and in no way connected with any of the events that have occured here in the last year. Basically it is just a desire to re­locate to the West Coast," ex­plained Mulaney. 
Mulaney was named dean of students in September, 1971, and was the first laywoman to hold the position. Prior to coming to St. Mary's, Mulaney was an ad­ministrative assistant to the Washington special projects director of the Children's workshop which developed "Sesame Street." 
"Right now I'm looking into jobs in government or communication arts. I've enjoyed it here but I really want to return to my original fields of journalism and governemtn. It's difficult with the duties of this office to take classes, and I would like to get back to work on a Communication Arts degree," noted Mulaney, 
Mulaney graduated from the Marquette University School of Journalism and the University of San Francisco. While living on the West Coast she worked as production manager San Fran­cisco Magazine and as editorial assistant for Traveler Magazine. 
"I have nothing against South Bend, but I am used to a more cultural environment, having been raised in Chicago, and living in San Francisco and Washington. South Bend is geared more toward family living and consequently there aren't too many things for a single person to do here," said Mulaney. 
"I think St. Mary's is a super fine college. I am particularly op­timistic about the reorganization of the Student Affairs Office and hope it will continue to work with Student Affairs at Notre Dame, and treat both student bodies as one rather than competitors. I came during the year of the merger and was sorry that it fell . through. I was particularly sorry to see the bitterness and rancor with which it happened," she said. 
Regarding the future of St. Mary's, Mulaney noted there were a great many needs of the students yet to be met. "I hope there is an increased push in improving. recreational facilities. Moreover I hope the college is fortunate to get a president interested in solid growth. I would like to see them get someone with solid leadership like Dr. Henry. It is regrettable that we are losing Dr. Henry. The man is a real futurist. If any private college is to survive that is what it needed. A college shouldn't just plod through the present, but should also look with consideration to the future," she concluded. 

New academic code greeted with mixed emotions by faculty members 
I 
(continued from page 1) 
grade harder. It's been my impression that grades have floated up over the last five or ten years. So rather than raise the bottom cot-ff, have people grade stiffer." 
However, Lucey expressed his opposition to Academic Com­missioner's Chris Nedeau's proposal to establish a "University curve."s 
"Probably what they want to do," said Lucey, "is apply the universal bell-shaped curve to each and every class. But you have to consider that the levelof competition from class to class is just not the same. So, if that's penalty on serious students." what they want to do, I'm against The proposal is believed to be it." intended as a deterrent to the 
student practice of signing up for 
credit hour limits 18 credit hours at registration, only 
to drop a course once the semester 
Dr. Dennis Dugan of the starts. This practice often Economics Department expressed prevents students who really want his disfavor with the proposal to or need a certain course to gain a charge an additional fee for credit , spot on the class list. 
hours taken in excess of a certain prescribed limit. 
Dugan said, of the proposal, "It seems to arbitrarily hit the student who is capable of doing the work, who sees something interesting and would like to take it. It seems as if you would be imposing a 

SU comes through on summer storage issue 
(continued from page 5) · televisions, stereos, or typewriters for security reasons. 
The rates for each item will 
be: $3.00 for footlocker$5.00 for 
couch$3.00 for chair$5.00for 
refrigerator(none over 5 cu. 
ft. )$1.50 for box 
Items which vary in size, such as rugs and bureaus, will be charged a rate per cu. fr. which will be determined later. 
Ray Carey, associate director of the Student Union, said "We feel that the rates offered are as reasonable as possible considering the costs involved." 
The question of insurance coverage is still being researched and the building will provide security of its own. 
Off-campus students will be permitted to use this storage 
The Student Union is seeking volunteers to help transport the furniture downtown. Golden said, "We will need about 20 workers each day. The pay is $2.50 per hr. and volunteers will work 7-8 hrs. per day." Anyone wishing to work can contact the Student Union at 7757. 
When questioned about how the items will be picked up at the end of the summer, Golden said, "The items will be brought back to the halls and the pick-up times will be posted in the dormitories. This is why it is so necessary to ahve your hall listed on each item." 
Further information concerning summer storage will be posted in the halls. If you have any questions please contact Pat Rurke, Rick Golden, or Pat Carey at 7757. 
'f1rttfOIIt 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMEMT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of N.otre Dame. We ha~le a ~omplete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radr~l, and Import car trres; at your special price. Also, our Phrlco appliance and Eledronic Department will e.x!en~ the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­
flfrcaflon. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 5. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
If that is indeed the problem this proposal is supposed to solve, Professor Houck thinks he has an alternative. 
"I've always wondered why we don't hav an 'Elective Day' during registration," Houck explained. He continued, "I mean, why not have evrybody sign up for the minimum 4 or 5 courses first, and once that's done, have people choose their sixth course from what's left. This way everyone will obtain their required courses." 
The entire 16-page Academic Code, as prepared by Fr. James Burtchaell, University Provost, and the Deans and Assistant Deas of the four colleges, will be presented to the Academic ouncil on Monday, May 6. At that time, a decision will be made whether or not to pass it on to a hearing board. 

International Student Organization Meeting for Election of New Officers 
12:15 Thursday, May 2 
lnternationaI Lounge All Interested Please Come 
The Observer is now taking applications for· 
Assistant Advertising Manager 
This is a paid position 5 days per week 7 hours per day 
Iexcellent position for spouse of student information call 7 471 between 10 & 5 
J..l Foreign Car Parts Co. 
~)Parts & accessories for imported can 11.:::, for all makes at lowest prices. 
Distributor 

"************************* 
:For NO Students, Faculty & Staff 10 * 
* percent discount with I D & pur-: ~chase of $10 or more. * 
************************. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland So. Bend 

272-7187 

Party Headquarters 

For KEG Parties: 
We have the newest and best equipment available I 
Pabst Busch Stroh's 
and Others 
Wholesale Prices I 

A wide selection of ... BEER WINES LIQUORS MIXES SOFT DRINKS and SNACKS 
Call Rick (233-1115) 
For discounts on large orders 
~~un 

Carry-out 

1003 Notre Dame 233-11 15 
Wednesday, May 1, 1974 the observer 
Campus briefs • • • 
Two ND students Zappa is probably best known for leadership of eight schools in his 
area of operations, Michigan,
his biza11e on-stage antics, 
Indiana and Ohio.

arrested for drugsespecially his "gros~-out" contest 
Two Notre Dame students were 
arrested Sunday following a narcotics raid by state and city police at their home at 905 W. Jefferson Blvd. 
The two students, MiChael O'Connell, a Senior from Rochester, N.Y., and Charles F. Donnelly, a Junior from Bir­mingham, Mich., were found with suspected narcotics in their possession. State police reported that they confiscated nine ounces 
at New York's F1llmore East several years ago. Zappa is alsoDome l·s honored 

of suspecteed marijuana, ten R d 1 d 
recognized as one of rock's top guitarists, and his bands are usually held in high esteem by both· rock and jazz fans. 
Tickets for both the Leon Russell concert tomorrow night and the Frank Zappa concert May 12 are still in good supply at the Con­vocation Center Box Office and the other usual ticket outlets in the South Bend area..Also appearing with Russell will be the Gap Band. 

grams of suspected cocaine, fifty e eem aun ry journalism within the state, in the grams of an unidentified brown h. k areas of newspapers, yearbooks, powder, a target pistol, and a rifle. COUpons t lS wee magazines and-advertising. 
by J. Robert Hanna Staff Reporter 
In a recently announced decision, the 1973 edition of Notre Dame's yearbook, the Dome , won five awards from the Indiana Collegiate Press Association. Made annually to members of the Association, the awards are in recognition of outstanding student 

Three other persons were arrested in the raid. Their names are unavailable. Two were held in the Parkview Detention Home, and the third was released to the custody of her parents after questioning. 
O'Connell was arrested on a felony warrant charging him with two counts of delivery and two counts of possession of narcotics. He was released on $500 bond. Donnelly is scheduled to appear in Superior Court May 7 to face a charge of fre9uenting a house of common nUisance. He was released on $5o bail. 
Dean of Students John Macheca commented on the arrests by saying, "I am aware of it and will be seei~g th_e ~tuden~s as part ?f the Umvers1ty s dehberahons m the case."
Russell, Zappa
• ACC
COmJD g tO Rock pianist and guitar stylist Leon Russell will appear in concert tomorrow night, May-2, at 8 p.m. at the Convocation Center. A native of Tulsa, Oklahoma, Leon is credited by many music critics as the performer who dominated the Bengladesh benefit concert held in 1971 at the New York's Madison Square Garden. He is also known for his high­energy and visually stunning oerformances. Frank Zappa, another rock legend in his own right will be appearing at the A.C.C. on Sunday, May 12, at 7:30p.m. along with the Mothers of Invention. 
Laundry coupons issued from September 1, 1973 -April 26, 1974 can be redeemed this week. Students can return their coupons at the University Laundry building, north of the grotto from 9:00am -11 am and 1 pm -3 pm. 
Please note: only coupons issued during the 1973-74 year are redeemable. There will be no refunds after May 3, 1974. 
Loebach gets 
d
R0 TC a war 
A South Bend senior in Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC has been selected as the outstanding Arnold Air Society area commander in the nation. Philip Loebach, son of Mr. and Mrs. Clarence H. Loebach, 19630 Brick Road, received the 
H.H. "Hap" Arnold Sabre Award at a recent national meeting in Houston. 
Loebach's honor is the second consecutive year and the third time in five years that a Notre Dame 
student has been selected for this award. Last year, Mike McAllister, a current Notre Dame 
senior was selected, and a 1970 
graduate, Frank Taylor, was 
selected previously. Taylor is an 
Air Force captain assigned to 
Notre Dame fOr advanced studies 
in government. 
A 1970 graduate of South Bend's 
St. Joseph High School, Loebach 
was cited for his dynamic 
The list of Dome awards in-eludes firsts in Photography and faculty coverage, seconds in academic coverage and cover, and a third place for book of the y~ar. 
Roderick Braye, current ed1tor of the Dome and a member of last year's staff commented on the awards "It'~ a tremendous honor to be r~cognized by one's peers in such a manner. Credit is due to 
Mike  Paulius  Jim  Hunt,  Dr.  
Ackerman 'and  Walsworth  
Publishing."  

"They did an excellent job and it sure gives future Dome staffs a target to shoot at if they want to,"
Braye added. 
In a related note, Braye outlined plans for the upcoming distribution of this year's yearbooks. "The books should arrive Thursday or Friday and we'll try to get them handed out as quickly as possible. Because its a limited edition book, we have to number and initial all 6800 copies," he said. 
"To put it mildly, that's not the easiest job in the world and will take some time," Braye added. 
C. 1 K Cl b
lrC e U 
tO hold electiOnS 
by Jane Cannon Staff Reporter 
The Circle K Club of Notre Dame will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in the Breen-Phillips Puzzle Room to elect officers for next year. Plans for the Charter Night 
Banquet will also be discussed and 

Last Night lditor: Rick Bower 
finalized.

Asst. Last Night Editor: Dean Janke 
It is most important that anyone 

Layout:Suzy Augustus, Molly Martin, Dan Sanchez, 
wishing to join the club attend the

AI Rutherford, Bill Brink, Tim O'Reilly, Andy 
meeting tonight. The Circle K Club 

Praschak, Terry Keeney 
is a service organization which

Editorials: Tom Drape, Fred Graver, Bell Brink, 
works in conjunction with the

Features: Robert Baker 
Kiwanis Club. Anyone interested

Sports: Peggy Lawlor, Greg Corgan, Vic Dorr 
in the betterment of the com­

Copy Readers: Jeanne Murphy, Jim Eder, Greg 
munity and willing to work

Aiello 
towards that goal is urged to join.

Day Editor: Val Zurblis, Ken Girouard 
For further information, contact

Typists: Gary Allietta, Tom Modglin, John 
Tom. Schnellenberger at 2119.

Glanigan, Barb Haug 
The Circle K will hold a Charter

Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz 
Night Banquet on May 4, to

Final Cpntroller of the Darkness and Rising College 
celebrate the official chartering of

Drop-out: Carolina 
the club. The official charter of the

In his last apj)earance as masochistic fool: Gary 
International Organization of

Allietta Circle K Clubs will be present to the Notre Dame club by· a representative from the Chicago Kiwanis Office. Representatives from Circle K Clubs throughout Indiana and area Kiwanians will attend the banquet. 
BOAC 
We still have Youth Fares to Europe 
Call Clark 234-2098 and save money. 

~--~------~==~~~-~­
ENERGIZE YOURSELF 
BACKPACK ISLE ROYALE NATIONAL PARK NOW! 
For free brochure: Isle Royale Ferry Service Copper Harbor, Mlichigan 49918 

School house Too 
In the Brewery 100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181
~~ 


The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm 
SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 
IT ALlAN & BRITISH SHAG & LAYER CUTS 
HAIR & SCALP ANALYSIS Sam Belardinella Mike McDonald 
FOR APPOINTMENTS 
CALL 
188-6661 
Closed Monday 
See Our New MEN'S DEN 

Fealuring The latest Fashions In Men's Clothe> 2303 S. MIAMI S. BENJ.., JUST N. OF 8USCH8AUM'S PHARMACr 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 

* FESTIVAL OF THE BLUEGRASS 
* 
* 
* 

Kentucky State Horse Park
* 
* 

Lexington, Kentucky
* 

* * JUNE 7, 8, 9, 1974 * 
* * 

* 3 FULL DAYS OF BLUEGRASS MUSIC 
* * FRIDAY. SATURDAY SUNDAY * * Doc Watson Bill Monroe J. D. Crowe * * Ralph Stanley Bluegrass Alliance Allen Brothers * * Mclain Family Outdoor Plumbing Co. Clyde & Marie Denny * 
Jim & Jesse
* * 

* ....... And many others each day * * STUDENT DISCOUNT * * Present this coupon and save $3 on 3 day ticket * * 3 Days--$9 ($12-·Regular Price) 3 Days--$9 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
BAGGAGE TRUCK TO THE WASHINGTON D.C. AREA 
LOWEST PRICES AVAILABLE $1 I CU. FT. CALL MARK AT 7122 OR DICK AT 3166 
DEPOSITS ARE NOW BEING TAKEN AT 215 ST. ED'S OR 303 HOLY CROSS 
ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 
Place your ring orders before you leave for 
the summer. Your ring will then be ready 
when you return in the fall. 
Hours: 9:00 am to 4:30 pm Mon.-Fri. in office on second floor of 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

THE OBSERVER 

r I  AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Ann McCarry Editorial Editor  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  
Bob Zogas Business Manager  Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob McManus Advertising Manager  

May 1, 1974 

fram theeditar!s desk: 
People, Purpose, Place 
It may be the late nights and early mornings. Quite possibly, it's a reporter's
pursuit of his source or a day editor's pursuit of a reporter. Or it just may be that 
relentless desire to do it and do it well. 
To say exactly is not within my grasp. But The Observer-the people, the purpose, the place-has come a long way. Established under the students' control, this paper remains committed to a responsibility of professionalism and dedication. And what ever combinations of reasons it may take, that com­mittment will continue. 
As in any organization, the people are gold. It is difficult to describe the type of men and women who put forth this daily paper, for in each are different qualities. Common to all though is a stout dedication to those with whom they share their efforts. Without it, the help needed to redesign the front page or make a headline fit at four in the morning just wouldn't come through. 
But it does happen, day after day. Each and every Observer staffer is the reason why. Each layout assistant, reporter, photographer, typist, night con­troller, HAL operator, ad salesman, secretary, circulation and subscriptionperson, copyreader, day editor, assistant night editor, night editor and editorial board member deserves recognition and thanks. 
The most honest appraisal at The Observer ultimately rests with our fellow students. Ideally, every student could share in the knowledge at our operation in order for such an appraisal to be made. Succint criticism is indeed a mandate. 
Even now, as events which concern this University occur, ours is a position to report and interpret. Included in any responsibility which we might claim would certainly be complete and fair coverage of those events. The right to know belongs to all of us. 
Notre Dame presents an equal opportunity to everyone. It remains for each of us to take advantage of that opportunity. The graduating seniors can perhaps see this better than any. To them, the past four years may reflect opportunities fulfilled or opportunities missed. 
Opportunities are now. In our people, our purpose, our place, The Observer makes the offer. This year has been recorded ; on with the next. We will have the commitment, will you? 
-Tom Drape

-the observer 1973-74______ 
Editor-in-chief:Tom Drape Graduating Seniors: Jerry Lutkus, Joe Abell, ButchEditorial Editor: Ann McCarry Ward, Maria Gallagher, Art Ferranti, Dan Barrett,News Editor: Terry Keeney Vic Dorr, Kathy Schwllle, Greg Aiello, GaryManaging Editor: Marlene Zloza Allietta, John Kloos, Lee Gentlne, Bill Murphy,Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy Mike Kulczyckl , Dave Kaminski, MarkSMC Editor: Pattie Cooney Derhelmer, Greg Rowinski, Leanne Jacques, RickSpecial Projects Editor: AI Rutherford Scharf, Jerome Phillips, Paul Colgan, Kurt Heinz,Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink Howard Wood, John Flanigan, Joe Raymond, MikeFeatures Editor: Robert Baker Budd Beth Hall, Bill Rahner, ·Jim Napier, JackContributing Editor: Fred Graver Frlschkorn, Jackie Schmlzzl, Matt Lam, FrankSports Editor: Greg Corgan Zaletel, Matt Cavanaugh, Byron King, Clalre,Kelly, Photography Editor: Zenon Bldzlnskl Tom Bundy, Rod BrayeJohn Fineran, Fred Anczak 

Night Editors: Gary Alliettav Tim O'Reiley, Rick Reporters: Gary Aliletta., Greg Bangs, ZenonBlower, AI Rutherford and Bill Brink 
Bidzinski, Jack D'Aurora, Sue Divita, Jim Donathen,Mark Fraze!, Fred Graver, MikeAss't. Night 'Editors: Mike Strlckroth, Tom O'Neil, Kulczycki, David Lee, Judy Peterson, Tom Russo,Dean Janke, Dan Sanchez, Andy Praschak Kris Thorson, Drew Wallach, Mike Worle, MaryLayout Staff: Bill Murphy, Mike Kulczyckl, Ginnie Janca, Chris O'Brien , Val Zurblls, Tom Brennan,Faust, Suzy Augustus, Mark Fraze(, Jim Donathen, John De Coursey, Mark Derhemer, Dave Kaminski, Molly Martin 

Joe LaFiare, Tom O'Neill, Tony Proscia, Bob Typists: Claire Kelly, Camille Arrieh, Daren Hinks, Quakenbush, Jane Thornton, Jane Cannon, Leanne Barb Norcross, Tom Mogdlin, Mary Roemer, Barb Jacques, Ken Bradford, Joel Burian, Denise Haug, Bill Menk, Jane Coyle, Jeff McPherson, Mike Crowley, Jim Eder, Ken Girouard, Pat Hanifin, Seidel, Gary Allietta Phyllis Mosley, Mary Pat Sullivan, Andy Swanfeldt, 
Janet Longfellow, Janet Denefe, Bill Murphy, BillCompugraphic: Howard Halle, John Flannigan , Sabin, Michelle Tate, Mike Welby, Pat Flynn,Bill Nichols, Bob Steinmetz, Gary Allietta, Phil Peggy Frericks, Tom Kruczek, Mary BethOrscheln Mungovan, Jim Rosini,Rick Scharf, Bill Sohn, Mike Donavan, Sue Nash, John Berger, Mike Dewey, Ginger McGowan, Jeanne Murphy, Greg Rowinski, Advertising Staff: George Belclch, Mary Donnelly, AI Rutherford,Manager: John Kloos Kurt· Heinz, Mike Rizzo

Asst. Mgr.: Debbie Gentlne Asst. Mgr.: Paddy Swiney Salesmen: Bob McManus, George Adelo, Pete 
Photographers: Zenon Bidzlnski, Joe Raymond,Fries, Dan Barrett, Pete Kernan, Mike Budd, Ed Brower, Chris Smith, Paul Jouce,Layout: Rick Nauman, Connie Fourr·e, Ken Marla Gallagher, Bill Rahner, Jim RoslniKampman 

Business Manager: Lee Gentlne 
_allsmil••-------­
•

A sen1or I s 
last column 
------i· ama~t ea_ 
" ... you seemed to fade _away on time." 
The night is no time to speak. It is for hiding in grea~e~ and coffee. stained all-nite restaurants ·watching the black and rain sweep with winded strokes, the sidewalk and the gutter on the other side of the glass. It is for listening to the tireless drone of late shift workers, night people; those who push to produce something to put on the eating tables. From my secluded seat at the counter, I saw one, a toddling man, take his place in a corner booth, hunched tight against the wall, and drink his black coffee between sad pensive glances into the cup. I recognized him. He was a columnist, a writer--some man I never knew save by a few written words and a shaded, negative photograph next to his title. Once I had seen him at a concert seated apart from a woman. His mind was oil the music; ears trained for the familiar riffs and eyes fixed on the singer: an aging man who had known music only, probably since he was a child. For reasons I could not fathom, the writer shared no words with his readers about this particular singer and his performance. In fact, the writer had grown silent. He was producing fewer works. It was as though this, his last year, had forced another new group of writers and readers upon him wi..c: an exceptional vengeance; a brutal reminder that he would have to;'1alk out once more without looking back to see that all was well behind him. 
He produced a pen (I smiled at this), tore a napkin from its place, and began to write on· it; the scratches lost in the rattle and blur of forks and coffee spoons. From time to time he looked up amid the aprons of too-busy waitresses, clearing the bread crumb dishes and stained glasses, the too-much silverware and other untouched articles of last meals from the tables, or into the heads of unsuspecting ship­ping clerks, toolmakers, and wanderers in an attempt to find in­spiration for what I had by now guessed would be his last column. I read every movement he made, whether he was taking a long look at the light flash of cars on the wet concrete of the road outside or re­examining his reflection cut and rippled on the coffee in his cracked cup. I could not guess his motivation. Was it the incoming crowd of niggling customers, jostling to find a niche in this old, forgettable place? Was it the hour, with its insistent waning minutes, that reminded him of his deadline? (It was quite past 11:00.) A depression? He had been jilted from what seemed a most lucrative, attractive offer of another, higher school? Or he had decided not to call someone on the other side of the lakes? Simple agonies. I enjoyed watching him punctuate a blank piece of paper with halts between the flows of ink; making curls to letters to words for someone to read. My little game was often annoyed by the hiss of beef on the grill, and the side glances of its silent cook so artlessly making it into a meal for someone. 
I was amused, took a sip from my cup of coffee, andl produced a 
napkin and pen in imitation. Only, I stopped. I grinned to myself: 
foolish, as if I could write down something worth reading to any Joe or 
Jerry with two eyes and two hands. Another isp and I gave it up, not 
wanting to put myself out. Instead, I returned to this columnist who, I 
had decided, had felt an obligation to his dinner time audience and, 
while still among them, was writing down chaotic lines from which he 
would eventually create his last flourish. I hoped that he would go out 
with a smile, would tell his readers of only his light hours--as if my 
hope would be heard. As if he or anyone would listen to me. He looked 
up again, around. For the first time, I noticed that he was without his 
glasses. I turned my head away and asked the counter man for 
another cup of coffee. When I returned again to my specimen he had 
laid full before him the napkin overrun with feelings, insights, 
memories ... how was I ever supposed to know? I could not see that 
far. But, what came next surprised me: he put a couple of dollars and 
some change on the table top, rose, read his last words, on which he 
had worked so long, so hard, and on an impulse with a shaking hand, 
clutched and let fall free his little paper. He started away from the 
table and he left behind him a crumpled napkin with a lot of scrawled, 
disparate characters which would be noticed by a later, curly brown 
waiter wh¥ould save it, and stuff it, into his pocket to read in the 
morning. e writer wanted so badly to let someone know that he was 
leaving. M ybe, I should not have seen all this -I should have looked 
the other y. But, I caught his blue eyes, recognition in a glance, 
before he pushed through the door unnoticed. I mumbled a late good­
bye to him-did it matter if I knew his name, or that he even had one 
at all? Did I have the right, after I had bade him farewell, to expect a 
good-bye from him? 
this issue dedicated to 
Jerry Lutkus, 
editor-in-chief 1973-74 


Wednesday, May 1, 1974 the observer 
';f -~ :.;:.: .~"~~\ '-~ .. \. ·" ~~~,~ ,~~ 'i~~ "'·~y;p~ 
Letters Ta R Lanely l:iad 
love without rituals 



the myth and the reality of working 
A boy and a girl I know are about to be married, and for two afternoons now, I have listened to them discuss the marriage ceremony. Frantically, they move from the Old Testament to the New Tesstament, from Genesis to Ephesians, searching for marriage texts. It is essential to them that the readings reflect their moods as newlyweds, but it is not easy to find ancient texts that say in an up-to-date way how they must belong to each other as husband and wife. To eliminate confusion, I am tempted to suggest an elopement, yet I realize the important of the marriage ritual. Young lovers need to celebrate their union ritualistically, and bridal gowns and marriage songs are part of the pageantry. It is essential for a bride and groom, surrounded by relatives and frineds, to speak of the ways in which they love one another, and of how they will care for each other until death. I, as the preist listening with other witnesses to the vows, will realize that the deepest moods of love are best expressed by touches and by glances rather than by language. In fifty years of marriage, a man and woman can say to each other: "By this act of fidelity and that gesture of sacrifice, and by all the ways in which I try to be sensitive, gentle, and courteous, I am telling you that you are at the center of my dreams, and the efforts of my life are a way of saying I love you." Old couples know how they are loved; but brides and grooms have only the texts of Genesis 
. . "You can't eat for eight hours-a day, nor drink for eight hours a day, nor make love for eight hours a day-all you can do for eight hours a day is work. Which is the reason why man makes himself and everybody else so miserable and unhappy." 
-William Faulkner 

As the summer comes upon us, many 
people begin to think about jobs. Even more 
pressing is the situation of graduating 
seniors. They are being tossed into the 
midst of the "job market", and in many 
ways their fates are no longer their own. 
Aside from speculations that are made 
about the increasing emphasis in American 
life on leisure, the main business of this 
country is still business. Work is the main 
thing, and it is the driving force behind the 
workings of our civiliation. Hence, the 
subtitle of this book: "People Talk About 
What They Do All Day and How They "F'eel 
About What They Do". 
What jobs, what industries are worth 
being involved with? Where is there a place 
in society for a man to find fulfillment? Will 
there ever be a place where man can work 
from day to day and still feel his life has 
meaning? 
These are some of the questions which 
come to mind with the words "Work ethic" 
are pronounced. That ethic is concerned 
with the fulfillment of man's potential while 
he contributes to the whole of society. 
A fine ideal, surely. But what about the 
student who is sweating out a post-graudate 
job and, in desperation, is forced to convince 
a prospective employer that, yes, he would 
really look forward to a position in a shirt 
company. 
As I read Studs Terkel's book Working, I 
began to think about my own future. And 
then I began to think of the futures of the people. I know who will be leaving this year. Perhaps it is fitting that this review appear in the final issue this year. There are many things which bother me about the manner in which graduates are signing away ideal and freedoms for a bit of security. I realize that being thrown out into the "real world" for all the term is worth, is a frightening awesome, experience. But to view people, whose in­tegrity I once respected highly, signing onto 
and Ephesians and the First Epistle of John as expressions of their hopes. Sometimes, the radiance of a girl's face, or the tears in a groom's eyes can speak more of com­mitment than the strongest texts of the Holy Writ. 
As a final act of ministry before leaving the campus for the summer, I will preside over the marriage of these young friends. He will take the hand of his bride, she will take the hand of her husband; the promises will be exchanged, and oaths will be registered in heaven. To the holiness of human love, Christ our Lord will add a deeper meaning and a higher beauty: "Marriage is now and for all time to be considered a great mystery, intimately bound up with the supernatural union of Christ and the Church, which union is also to be its pattern." The nuptial blessing will be ·read, and the Church will celebrate with prayers and Eucharist the marriage in 
which a man and a woman become to each 
other the mnisters of Christ's gentleness 
and peace. 
It has become almost traditional to me, in 
the past seven Mays, to be a part of some 
marriage ceremony between recent 
graduates; it is part of my happiness as a 
Notre Dame priest. The performance of a 
marriage is a lovely way to say goodbye to 
young friends. Always, in the nuptial 
Massses of graduation weekend, I am 
thinking of those other friends whom I have 
not said goodbye to, or of those students I 
Working--People Talk About What 
They Do All Day and How They 
Feel About What They Do 
Studs Terkel 
Pantheon Books 
$10.00 
any job they can find is personally depressing. 
In this book, Terkel allows the working man to speak out for himself. These are people who, for the most part, have already been locked into the system. At times the voices cry with desperation, and at times they laugh with joy. Studs has approached them with no pre-conceived strategies or prejudices. He accepts what they tell him as the truth; not one is denied their dignity, personal value, or worth. Given the chance, they begin to speak with startling, beautiful, at times, painful honesty about themselves: 
There is an element of alienation and 
uneasiness in this book, though, which 
comes from the fact that this moment of 
honesty and expression may be the only 
such moment that these people may ever 
enjoy. Though each man is graced with a 
unique and individual soul, society has no 
way of creating enough jobs to match those 
souls. So men are placed into jobs that deny 
them their soul, that close them off and 
make them numb. Reading their words, 
listening to what they have to say hurts 
wiU the pain of the unjustly denied. 
Terkel knows this hurt, this pain; his soul is touched with what one of his people calls "the feeling tone". And so he does not allow his book to fall to pity and overwhelming compassion. There are also people in here who are happy with what they do all day, and say so in joyful exclamations that come close to being poetry. Sometimes, this repose is found in the most unexpected scenes-as in the following words from a Carpenter: 
"If you see a carpenter that's alive to his 
separated from without blessing them, or of those with whom I have never celebrated the Eucharist at all. A priest loves a marriage ceremony, because he knows he is helping two people do something nice for each other. I want to help people do something nice by touching each other. I want them to know they are not alone: not because I touch them, or even because God touches them, but because they touch each other; and that touch is one of the ways God cares for them. Summer has a way of being abusive to us: we become self-destructive in our moral choices, we become shaken in our self-estimates, because the world places so little value on our convictions and gifts. Sickness weakens us; accidents scar us, and there are always one or two of us whom death overtakes. In the time of crises, I want my friends to be touching each other, offering love, guarding the other against aloneness. There is a union in Christ by which a man and his wife are like vines growing in the same soil from one root. But all of us have life in Christ. In Him is the great brotherhood, whose best image is the Vine and the branches. I invite the young men and gracious girls of Notre Dame to take care of one another as they would 
themselves. I ask it not as an aging cleric, grown mushy on the marriage wine. I beg it as a veteran of life, who loves the world and fears its cruelties. 
Take care of one another, and be anxious for yourselves. Drink, drugs, sex and fast 
work, you 'II notice that about the way he ·hits a nail. He's not going (imitates machine gun rat-tat-tat-taO-trying to get· the nail down and out of the way so he can hurry up and get another one. Although he may be working fast, each lick is like a separate person that he's hitting with his hammer. It's like as though there's a seperate friend of his that one moment. And when he gets out of it, here comes another one. Unique all by itself. Pow! But you gotta stop before you get that nail in, you know? That's fine work. Hold the hammer back, and just that last lick, don't hit it with your hammer, hit it with a punch so you won't leave a hammer mark. Rhythm." 
One begins to wish that corporate executives would try to learn something from the simple techniques of that car­penter. 
There are no generalizations to be made from the things said in this book, no wild statements about the fears and hopes and myths of the working-dass man. These people come from all classes, from all walks of life. Some are incredibly disgusted with the way they spend their days, some are bored, some are mildly content, and some 
1 .. 

cars are some of the ways you are tempted to the self-destructive act; cynicism, am­bition, and the greed for money are others. I am not your Jewish mother, but some of you are headed for destines I will weep over. If you place little value on yourselves, think of the investment and sacrifice your parents have made. If you doubt it, watch the moment-by-moment care required by in­fants for their survival, and remember you were once as helple~s as they. Don't say: it is my life, and I will do what I want with it. Only a fool is selfish enough to claim his own life as a plaything. 
Do not be destroyed by the shabbiness you meet, nor by the successes you encounter. The world is not all Watergate, and it is not all lovely, permissive girls met at the country club, either. In the end, you will find that the things worth having, the values worth dying for, have to do with love and family; love and family are not cherished by the ways of easy virtue. 
There is an established ritual by which brides and grooms affirm the ways they care about each other. There is no way except preaching in which old chaplains and cocker spaniels can tell of their concern for the people of a campus; the chaplain preaches better than the dog, but sometimes not much better. But remember: in all the places you are, and in all the places you hope to be; in sunshine or in lightning, in sin 
\>r in grace, Darby and I never said we -didn't love you. 
by fred graver 


wouldn't dream about any other way of life. No great truths are expounded in these pages, only small ones that lead the reader, by way of pause and reflection, to the larger. 
Taking time to pause and reflect is an essential part of reading this book. Studs Terkel is told things in this book that the speaker may never even share with their best friend. By the very nature of these remarks, one has to stop. 
One of the primary purposes of literature is to redefine our vision of the world. The men and women residing in the pages of Working are in many ways direct descen­dants of the characters created by such authors as Nelson Algren, Sherwood An­derson, Upton Sinclair, and John Steinbeck. They are "forgotten men", who with the help of Terkel learn what is like to find themselves. 
Critics are saying that this book is bound to be a bestseller, and it deserves to be. know that no one can leave these pages untouched by the eloquence and astonishing insights contained within them. 
I especially hope that the graduates will 
take a good look at this book before they sign into something that offers little more than a bit of security. Perhaps it would be good to close by quoting the words of Saul Alinsky: "I see friends I went to college with, and I ask them what they're doing. It's nothing like they planned to do when they got out. , They say, 'well, I took the job so that I could buy time for later, and then do the things I wanted'. But they never get around to doing what they want. You can't do it that way. Once you start compromising to a great extent it changes you, and you lose whatever it is inside of you that made you 
want to do those things in the first place. 
10 the observer Wednesday, May 1, 1974 ', \ '·/.. .•! f '....... 
Butch Ward is the graduating Editorial Editor of The Observer.
The book must not end 
He is an English Major from 


Baltimore, Md. Next year, he will be working for the Baltimore News American. 
By Butch Ward 
I have been the past four the same been antic! And I always done by this t 
Perhaps lesson that the 
The book has realized his to master a 
And what turned out to who attempt goodness and perlence every this author has lives and hates, that I 
And his book Is called the Real 

The way we were 
Notre Dame-Its People. And I have been reading that book for four years. Fred Antczak has been a regular 
Its pages have taught me much columnist for The Observer. He is that I did not know, or at least that a Senior English Major from I did not want to admit before. I Grand Rapids, Michigan. He will can remember the difficulty w attend the University of Chicago which I first attempted to next year. derstand the book's harsh 

By Fred Antczak
of pain, its revelatl dishonesty, its refusal to the brunt of my ability to hurt. Itpromise its vision of reality was they who taught me that love "All sorrows can be borne if you Four years provided some thesebecause of my youth. 

put them into a story or tell a commodities. But I hope, onIs not a wholesale Item but rather aSo many times I wanted to put it 
gift to be offered. And It was they story about them." reflection, those years meandown. So many times it seemed who taught me that to be rejected something more. I watched at
wasteful to confront myself with As with all sorrows, the sorrow 

says nothing about the man who least some women and men­
those pages full of reason to hate, of the end-paradoxically, we call 

can honestly say that he at­whom I began to admire and
those chapters that I knew were It commencement-must be borne,

tempted, with all he Is, to give his emulate, which was my essential
robbing me of the enthusiasm that and If possible borne In a education here-touched EVENlove to another.
I had treasured each time I productive way. Spring IS 

They taught me to listen to what BENEATH THEIR AMBITIONS;
renewed my efforts at reading. blooming-yes, It aches, and sags,

they saw In me, and to look at it may have come as a surprise
And like so many other things the and all but cries with color and 

myself through my own eyes. And a In­just that· there WAS anything
book showed me, I cannot fully promise-and, In bizarre 

I learned that the second point of deeper, more personal than that.
understand why I never consented version, we are thus signalled to 

view Is every bit as Important as Their lives here became ordered 
to destroying my association with win through It, a certain kind of 
the first.
the book forever. death. 
But, even now, this book is far
Perhaps it was because of the A story of the last four years
from completed, and It is time to
same reasons I was moved to must be told. But what story? One 
put it down. It Is time to put Notre 
attempt the book originally. of spectacles, surely: the national 
Dame aside in favor of the
Perhaps because the cynicism championship that floated away at 
challenges that lie ahead. And in
which the book awoke in me could U.S.C. In freshman year; an­
doing so, perhaps the lessons that
never overcome the real joy that swered by the glory won against
remain clouded now will find some
some of the book's principal Texas, and UCLA. The sweet, at­
way to make themselves more
characters helped me realize. For long-last victory over SC, and a 
apparent.
they showed me that I had read senior year national cham­
lesson become
this book somewhere before, and For one has pionship; answered, In a troubling
apparent during the two years that
had understood even less, and, dialectic, by surprise and defeat In 
this column has been appearing on
then too, It was their goodness that Tuscaloosa, which left not 
these pages. I cannot be sure that I
had brought me to try again. satiation, but only promise,
have even begun on that journey of 
I will never forget those drawing beyond our stay here. 
miles of which I have been writing.

characters, for they taught me of This dialectic is part of our story, not to add to what they
For such a journey takes an enrich and intensify
of comeraderle, of loneliness, of perhaps its Introduction. 

assurance of self, a mastery of my WERE.
evil, of kindness. I found myself But I would tell of another sort of 
own character that I realize I have 

studying with them, sharing their spectacle, stran. But obviously, this is a 
yet to achieve. But this book, this without an ending: In thi
moments of accomplishment, and gely unmentioned these days: the 
Notre Dame, has taught me a bit

the despair at rejection. I found unmerger, and the grief it too beautiful spring 
more about standing, a bit more must lose, even if
myself living with them, sharing brought: coeducation, and the 

about walking, a bit more about bloom), we must win
their heartaches and watching the good it brought. It was not,
the need to travel those miles.

changes that both hurt and food perhaps, the good we had ex­end here; in order to pected, not the automatic filling up the way we were and of loneliness, but the bringing close gain, In order to 
...we wiII forget what it was that of opportunity. It was not an something of) 
answer, but a tension, a more direct last sight of confrontation with our own 
our rear view 

shynesses and chauvinisms. And out to finish our with co-education came the demise 
separated us here and cherish 

storm them from a of Farley, a home lost a year myth with an order and resolution 
early; that loss, incongrously, to it, pointing to something deeper. eases the leaving this year. And And we must finish our stories In a with co-education came Liberation way that shines. 
that which brought us together 
fortune made In their faces. In a few weeks, all the charac­more immanently, and came the Remember what has shone. My

But most Importantly, I found ters will assemble for one last homelessness of absolute own deepest memories are of myself growing with them. I time, and for a few rare moments, people: of Org, Philo, the
Liberation. There is a trend herewitnessed my own character as he we will be somehow in­

towards Liberated Indifference­Floridian, of Scarecrow (whomexchanged the naive trust of the distinguishable. For those few that is to say, liberation from perhaps I shall miss most of all),freshman for the earned trust of hours of sitting draped In the robes concern, from feeling, and from and finally of the Lady. Shall we the cautious senior. I saw him 
that symbolize our unity, we will obligation; liberation from nature, remember the laughter? Yes, but 
realize the need to assert his forget what It was that separated much more:
and from one's self. The trend is worth, his Individuality, his claim us here and cherish that which part of our story; may it not reach 

to recognition as everything that brought us together. "Even if we are occupied with
its logical conclusion-spiritualhe was. I saw him accept the For despite the differences Isolation and moral autism. important things, even if we limitations that before he had which made each of us the 
The essence of my story of the · attain honor or fall Into 
feafully hidden, and with that memorable characters that we misfortune-still let us
way we were Is a story of change, acceptance realize a freedom that were, are, and will be for as long as 

of process, of movement. So many remember how good It once only the honest man can know. the literature of humanity exists, of us came here to ACQUIRE, to was here, when we were all 
And It was those characters that one thing unites us. We have tried together, united by a good and 
HAVE: to get a NO degree, or a 

helped me grow. It was they who to read, and have failed to com­mate, get law or med kind feeling which made us
to Into helped me, who hurt me, who prehend all that we must. school, to get a practical start on better, perhaps, than the way 
asked to be helped, and who caught And so we continue. 

the pursuit of our private lusts. we were." 
·.} '.:: .~ ' ' Wednesday, May 1, 1974 the observer 1 1 
Joe Abell is the graduating Managing Editor of the Observer.
Caveat emptor 
lie is an English Major from Dallas, Texas. He hopes to enter 

the field of journalism by hook or crook after graduation. 
By Joseph Abell 
Dame called .· of touch with .'.·microcosm. And . that description 
sense, it doesn't; Dame could be the opposite of a 
" It could very as just as real Avenue or 
rosy-tinted view and tell those legions what they want to hear. It really makes no difference what Notre Dame is like; they wouldn't believe it anyway. 
•

accenda's scenar1o 
something crucial for the Jerry Lutkus is the graduating University to talk about and that's Editor in Chief of The Observer. the Student Affairs office and the "I've always refused to write a impending shake-up." Next year soapy farewell column, but for the he will be working for the South last time around there is Bend Tribune. 
By Jerry Lutkus 

The recent reports of a major because of a lack of ccllege ex­shake-up in the Student Afairs perience. Again Faccenda was Office all make a lot of sense and asked if he would take the job and besides they create the missing again he said he said no at first. pieces in what has turned out to be But reversed his decision saying he a two year old scenario. would hold it until a capable 
Two years ago in Spring, 1972, replacement was found. The Fr. Thomas Blantz stepped down principal was brought to Notre from the Office of Vice President Dame and did an excellent job in for Student Affairs and a Search his first assignment prompting Committee was formed. The Faccenda and other ad­committee found one man whom ministrators to believe that a new they thought capable enough to Vice President for Student Affairs handle the job-Phillip Faccenda. had been found. So, Faccenda has Faccenda didn't want the job, but decided to leave the Student Af­took It when no one else could be fairs Office and if reports are found to handle It. He took it with correct, Br. Just Pacezny will be the condition that he would serve named his replacement. But all of until the committee could find a this cannot be made official until good replacement. The committee approval of the Board of found one man, the principal of a Trustees comes in May. Michigan City high school but The scenario all makes sense. questioned If he could take the job The only really questionable part love the romantic Notre Dame. An unfortunate for thbse
ts should -tin~ed 
With ity. 

be alert to what really there. otre Dame is real-
towards mic pile ap­Creation , and he was 

real difference is that Notre Da · .· tJ ;i it. has its image, an image that :· \.1 ; the reality of Notre Dame and Pt '· .,.., up a "Chris~{· ~ ~ '
smokescreen of n Community." And the only fau . . . · *ttl~. lesson to .be learned is that the Notre Dame administratio · 0f\ :h oH:!'til.{~at emptor, even in the case that it continues to feed the fires V ~ of~otre Dam!i!·t<Students should be 
producing that smokescreefl-~7--::,,~,_4,,,,.,.. all:itfto.~at is really there. Notre 
But this is simply a bac'kla~~;;::.'.":. Dame 1s real-no more, no less. the image itself: for the Notre ..,,._,.._______ But more importantly, Notre Dame administration is made up is real people-no more, no of those real people, who simply 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllf lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
the alcholic regulations, 
came up nro!l!'rlrln as an attorney and as a Committee. 
I figure could fight from a come to the Un . ·. 
stance against the recentof Student · ruling and the state's 21-year a very lucky drinking regulation. Finally,sity. 
political figure aspect of his In his two 
ignation grows larger and 
Faccenda as 1976 draws nearer. 
to the Unlvei'S:Itv., 
ccenda could very well have his 
incalcuabl es on that Democratic 
position ination for Senate. Hartke has 
affairs -nr-r1wn very, very weak in Indiana now holds and a strong figure from an urbanthe office center like Faccenda could wage aBut let' ·· s~~ stiff battle to unseat Hartke. 

leave after next year anyway. His What also had to affect Fac­
new position as head of the South cenda's decision was the dif­
Bend Crime Commission should ference of personalities between have been evidence enough to see his office and the Provost's office. 
that he had begun to turn his sights Continuous hassling has a way of outward. The position brought with making a job less inviting.
it a certain amount of political The major disappointment of power added to the in-town clout Faccenda's upcoming resignationthat Faccenda already possessed. 
though is the break in continuity.
The clout could become helpful in Throughout the past four years,the next few years for the every May has brought about a University because of annexation shuffle in the Student Affairs Of­
and the new alcoholic regulations. 
fice. It seems to be in constant flux 
Jerry Miller's administration and that cannot be healthy for has become annexation crazy Student Life at Notre Dame. 
trying to expand South Bend in Continuity must come about. The every way possible. Four years office must become steady and ago, the University won an an­solid and not subject to periodicnexation battle with the city, but upheavals. Faccenda broughtshould the problem arise again, 
organization and concern to 
Faccenda will be in a better 
Student Affairs. Hopefully
position to help the University fight Pacezny can bring stability. 

. ~· .. ~J .,, .. ,.._, ~ ••· ... ,_.. rJ·, 
~--~·-12 ·-'--the ·abs·erver· · Wednesday, May 1, 1974 
the new world of tv lab 
A young man stands behind a small television camera in Caroll Hall and talks quietly into the mouthpiece of his headset. On stage, Father James T. Burtchaell is answering questions about the problems of running a university. The young man reaches for a knob on the side of his camera and slowly tilts the machine up, closely studying the viewfinder in front of him. Chances are good that he has a cramp in his hand from gripping the handle and his legs ache from standing, for Burtchaell's is the last in a series of speeches that began several hours and six videotapes earlier in the day. 
This cameraman is not a professional, although his work has been solicited by Candid Camera, WSBT and Valley Cable Corporation. He is majoring in Broadcast Communications, a new program in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Speech and Drama Department. Learning to operate a camera is part of a three-hour course he is taking called Television Production Laboratory. Offered for the first time this semester, TV Lab is one of several courses now being extended to students as part of a Broadcast Communications major. 
With the close association between WNDU and the campus community, the need for communications courses became apparent after the Communication Arts Department at Notre Dame shifted its main efforts to its sixty-five graduate students. Future classes within the combined Department of Speech and Drama will include writing for television, set design and film production. "That's a pretty complete program when you get right down to it," said Jim Baxter, the man in charge of teaching television and film classes this year. "Our aim is to give students experience in cablecasting, which is where the jobs are opening up. We are aiming to meet the standards of cable broadcasting rather that commercial broadcasting, largely for technical reasons. We're working under an unusual concept right now. Much like any cable television operation when it first starts out, we're not committed to producing any programs at the moment. What we are doing is using the equipment as much as possible and sending some tapes to Valley Cable Corporation for 
use on local cable television." 
Technically, tapes made by students in Baxter's class must be rebroadcast on to other tapes in order to be ready for airing, even for cablecasting. "Cable stations," said Baxter, "have locked into using three­quarter inch cassettes, but we didn't buy cassettes because we wanted to be able to edit, which of course you can't do on a cassette. Valley Cable Corporation, which sold us our equipment, transfers it as a 


A Devil's Dozen DeUgbts 

Farewell all-night parties, continuous for weeks; 
Greetings small-time tiny peaks. 

Farewell self-gratifying irresponsibility; Greetings work, sweat, and growing senility. 
Far~well drunken, stoned out fisascos at the Stadium; Greetings business conferences at the Paladium. 
Farewell lazy days, careless morns, dreamy nights; Greetings "career," "success," and your 
endless frights. Farewell spontaneous cruises to the Dunes for a sunset; Greetings lawn to mow and wife to fret. 
Farewell Armory parties to drink sixteen pints at; 
Greetings poker games, martinis, and getting fat. 
Farewell "Whute, I want you. Love, Pizza Face·" Gr~tings "Be home early, Dear" and "Win the Rat Race." 
Farwell ripping off the University Bookstore; Greetings writing your own books and 
chicago symphony quartet 

On Monday, April 6 University of Notre Dame Concerts will conclude its season with the Chicago Symphony String Quartet and William Sudler, baritone. The concert will be held in the Library Auditorium with an admission charge of $1.00. 
The members of the Chicago Symphony Quartet have long been the leaders of what the London Times has called "World's Greatest Symphony Orchestra". They are the co-roncertmaster and the principals of their respective sections of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, and have been former principal players in major symphony or­chestras throughout the world including London, New York and NBC Symphonies. Each member of the '1quartet is a major soloist in his own right,and two are also conductors of the Community Orchestras in the Chica~o Metropolitan area. All are prominen1 teachers in Chicago. They have played together as a string quartet for nearly ten years and this concert is their 
f\fth visit to Notre Dame. 
Louis Sudler, baritone, is a graduate of Yale University, a member of the Yale Glee Club, and a member of that very special group-the Whiffenpoofers. In Chicago he is a prominent businessman, active musicain, and patron of the arts. He has served many years on the board of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra Association and is now the president of that organization. He has also pursued a busy career as a performing musican in the Chicago Opera, in Musical Comedy, in recital, and as a frequent guest artist with the Chicago Symphony String Quartet. This program is Mr. Sudler's fourth in the Notre Dame Concert Series in recent years. 
The program features a performance of Five Mystical Songs by R. Vaughn Williams. These songs originally for the baritone voice have been specially arranged for String Quartet accompaniment by Frank Miller, the cellist of the quartet. They were first performed in this arrangement this season in Orchestra Hall to especially high critical acclaim. 
being poor. 

Farewell Space Tech to sleep till noon by; Greetings 7:00 a.m. business breakfasts at which to lie. 
Farewell touch football at 2:00a.m. on the quad in the snow; Greetings fixing the pipes and dropping the wrench on your toe. 
Farewell Block parties and sweet SMC smarties; Greetings back room bargains and con artists, me hearties. 
Farewell UCLA games and Big Shu wrath to fry your mind; Greetings diapers to change and electric bills to find. 
Farewell to you, magnificent Mad Reefer Express to the Sugar Bowl; Greetings TV football, an empty glass, and a wounded soul. 
A Tempter's Tasty Trece 

No more self-righteous Gestapoesque harassment or "Official Summons" from Deans of Students ; 
Only bucks rollin' in a TR 6, and smaller need for economic prudence. 
No more demeaning abuse and silly rules from a repressed University and its ancient trustees; 
Only glamorous night clubs, a taste for the bizarre, and lovely lusties. 
No more paranoia when your girl sleeps over; 
Only swingin' pads for this Irish rover. 
No more sleasy bars packed with gapers; 
Only miscellaneous mirth and capricious capers. 
by kathy schwille 
service to us, which makes it possible for us to be put on the air." 
Baxter stresses that although the program's ties are close to local cable facilities, "our relationship with WNDU goes back a long way. Naturally their commercial commitments are quite demanding on their time. Ideally, the in­ternship which we now have over there would be the advanced stage of a Broadcast Communications major. Learning the restrictions of cable televsion and small studios like ours with limited equipment, is a good place to begin." 
There are differences, Baxter notes, between the production class this semester and those that will follow. "This class has had setbacks, particularly with the equipment arriving late." The first ship­ment of equipment, Baxter was informed, was destroyed by a firebombing during the truckers' strike in February. "Most of our time has been spent learning about the equipment and learning to live with it. Next time a student will plug in a mike and go, but that has not been the case this semester. We've set things up and then had to spend time working the bugs out." 
Money for the TV Lab equipment has been provided equally by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. With each video tape costing $25 or $30 and machinery valued in the thousands, does Baxter ever worry about what might happen to it? 
"You can't," he says. "If you become so 
protective that you won't let anyone use it, it 
isn't going to do you any good. Of course 
there are going to be mistakes made, but 
you can't let worrying about them stop you 
from letting the students learn, and they 
will earn best by doing things themselves." 
Baxter's students are enthusiastic about 
the fledgling television program. "Just 
having a course like this at Notre Dame at 
all is an accomplishment in itself," 
Because of the mobility of the cameras, recorder and lights, and the decidedly cramped quarters of the third floor studio at Moreau, students have made as many tapes on location as in the Lab itself. A recording of Senator Charles Percy's press conference and address at Stepan Center in March·--~ one of the first class productions to be aired on cable television. A weekly series originating from the Moreau studio has been running on Channel 34 since March and hopefully will be continued during the summer. Candid Camera personnel have offered their customary $500 to anyone submitting a tape worth of use on the rejuvenated show. At least one of Baxter's students has accepted the challenge. 
Seeing the possibilities of carapus television as an issue-oriented as well as an entertainment media, the Television Production Lab recently opened its doors to the public in what is known as free access televisfon. Theoretically, free access television functions in much the same manner as newspaper "letters to the editor." It offers air time without charge to anyone with something to say or even anyone wishing to entertain. Although students' response to the invitation was disappointing it is hoped that in time a greater response may be aroused. 
The problem of anonymity, though probably to be short-lived, is a problem that bothers some members of the Broadcasting program at the moment. Marty Quirk is a sophomore Broadcast Communications major who is troubled by the lack of recognition the program has received. "Notre Dame and St. Mary's lose some excellent students," he stated "because no one realizes we have a program in com­munications." 
Recognition should not be long in coming however, for the Broadcasting con: centration in the Speech and Drama 

remarked one student. "A lot of things have . department is growing by leaps and bounds. been put down by the administration here as Course listings for fall semester have being too practical for a liberal arts school," doubled over those for the past year. "It's he continued. "And the possibilities of the opened up a whole new world" one student class are just great because of the por-commented zealously, "and I'think it's just tablitity of the equipment. Two people can great." move everything." 
on the poet's celebration of graduation
by bill stephens 
No more getting ripped off by the University Bookstore; Only a carnival of adventures, skitrips, and much, much more. 
No more all-night, amphetamine for motivation, hashish for insight, term papers. Only work that counts, a checking account that grows, and grief that tapers. 
No more scalding, head-searing showers· Only delicious delights and formerly un~ fathomable powers. 
No more trudging across the frozen Hoosier wasteland to D-2, dreaming of brewski and a warm bar stool, to find your gas tank siphoned; 
Only a warm home to slip into, breakfast in bed, a midnight massage, a cool head to share conversation, all after you're wifened. 
No more food sales atrocities, Roma remedies, or Huddle burgers; Only palpitating Parisians and successful mergers. 
No more lines to wait to see the Director of Student Accounts before you can register; Only flowers on Valentine's Day or any 
day, for your honey, mother, or sister. 
No more Collegiate Seminar to insult your intelligence; Only creative procrastination and criminal negligence. 
No more brown-nosing behind kissers waiting for their A; Only Commencement and the dawn of a new day. 
No more mystery meat and instant potatoes at the Dining Hall; Only filet mignon, curried lobster, and "Adios, yh'all." 


votes to stay with a pre-Labor Day start for next year's classes. Mterwards, Chris •
•

Nedeau, Academic Commissioner, and Father Burtchaell, University Provost, agree that both sides had a fair hearing and that the debate in the Council was 

•
•
•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

III -The Indiana Court of Appeals, in a unanimous decision, rules that any person •• who gives intoxicating beverages to a • minor is liable for any damage the minor may cause. Thedecision.directly affects 
•

the Irish Wake, by causing "Prohibition" and a buffet dinner substitute. In sub­sequent decisions, the SLC kills all alcohol guidelines for the University, and leaves 
•

the reJ>ponsibility up to the individual halls. 
• 


•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• •
•
• 

IV -After a heavy, rigorous, campaign, Pat • McLaughlin defeats Ray Capp for Student • Body President. Capp comments,· "I knew it was all over when I found out we 
• 

carried Cavanaugh. It's like the kiss of death, even the Kine didn't carry 
•

Cavanaugh.'' The decision was one bet­ween a service-oriented organization and •• one that claimed to have the wisdom of experience. 
• 

I -The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame defeat the Crimson Tide of Alabama, 24-23, to become National Champs, at the Sugar Bowl on New Year's Eve. Ara Parseghian comments "so I said to Clements, during a time-out with just over two minutes remaining 'Okay fine we'll fake the run and go ah~ad and throw the football.' " 

V -Father Burtchaell discovers a student in Dillon Hall violating Parietals. The case goes to the Judicial Board, which •suspends the student for three weeks and 

II -By a 30-27 vote, the Academic Council allows him to take an incomplete for his • 
semester grades, until he could make up his finals in January. The case goes to the Appeals Board, who sends it back to the Judicial Board for new action. The student is now attending college in Massachusetts, and is planning to return to Notre Dame in the fall . 

VI -Drug raids are conducted in three halls over a period of two weeks by Dean of Students John Macheca, in an effort to "rid the campus of all drugs." Some of the cases are not handled by normal precedures, as Macheca feels the violations are having "too serious an effect on the University." One student is expelled from the University, two are 
released. 

VII -The Executive Committee of the . .Board of Trustees endor ses the concept of the renovation of La Fortune Student Center as propsosed by the Renovation Committee. This action, if approved by the full Board at its May meeting, could lead to a start of Renovation by this summer. 

VIIl -The Student Manual Guidelines are
• revised by the Student Life Council. Amidst much debate new partyg~id~lines are drawn up, only to be dtsmtssed after the Indiana Court of Appeals hands down its far-reaching
• decision. <see no. 3) • 
•
•
•
• 
• 
•
•
•
• 

••• IX 
-The Fighting Irish score another
• monumental victory, this time ending 
UCLA's eighty game winning streak in the•• ••• ACC, where it all began, by a score of 71­
70. John Wooden comments, "We cer­
•• tainly didn't figure to lose with three minutes to go, andup by 11 oointc:: " 
• 
•
•
•
• 
•

• 
.?~ . 
• 
~----.-,-~N~


.......
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

X-Dr. Edward L. Henry, President of St. Mary's College, resigns his post, effective• August 31, 1974. Dr. Henry states in his
• 
letter of resignation. "My committments to the College, I feel, have been more than fulfilled." 

_1_4___t...:...h_e_o_b_s_e"---r_v_._e_r______wednesday, May 1, 1974 
Kloos and Gentine retire 
As of today's issue of the Ob­was responsible this year for the server, the Observer business accounting and disbursement of manager and advertising Observer funds. 
managers will retire. Business Jerry Lutkus, outgoing editor-in­manager Lee Gentine and Ad­chief, commented on Gentine's vertising Manager John Kloos are contribution to the newspaper. leaving the staff due to graduation. "Lee is responsible for the 
Gentine, a senior accounting complete revamping of business, major from Plymouth, Wisconsin, financial. and bookkeeping 
St. Mary's science hall renovation scheduled 
Renovation of St. Mary's Science Hall begins immediately after the end of this semester, and runs through the summer, according to St. Mary's Vice President for Academic Affairs, Dr. William Hickey. 
Plans call for the conversion of classroom into laboratory space, according to Drs. Clarence Dineen and Francis Benton, Chairmen of the Biology and Chemistry Departments, respectively. 
"The reason for the renovation," said Benton, "is that the nursing program has increased the number of people the department has to handle. We <the chemistry department), have had our own problems with overcrowding, but the introduction of the nursing program has made our problems more acute." 
According to Dinee, the 70 presently in the nursing program have almost doubled the number of 
students  in  the  anatomy  and  
general  biology  courses.  Ad­ 
ditionally,  he  noted  that  
enrollment  in  the  biology  and  

allied medical majors has in­creased. 
Currently, there are three chemistry and five biology labs. After renovation, there will be least three new chemistry laboratories and the enlargement and medernization of three biology labs. 
According to Hickey, two phases of remodeling are scheduled. "Phase I is the critical phase, as it provides facilites for advanced course work for science majors, and new and expanded laboratory facilities in the biology and chemistry departments for the nursing program." 
On the first floor of the building, housing the chemistry depart­ment, the first phase will involve converting a classroom into a physics lab, the present storage room into an instrument room, and room 120, which was designed as an apartment and now used for storage and. instruments, will be turned into an advanced lab. Also, the stockroom will be modified, and the basement used for storage. 
Recommendations for Phase II of the first floor renovation include changing the present science library into a general chemistry lab, the balance room into small research labs, and another classroom into a balance room and three offices, continued Benton. 
For the second floor, the Biology Department plans to enlarge and better equip the microbiology lab, convert a classroom into a faculty office, a darkroom into a research microscopy and audio-visual rooms. Three other labs, added Dineen, "will be renovated in terms of additional cabinets, sinks, and tables." 
"Two or three classrooms will be retained, and the overflow of classes will go into Madeleva, where there are empty classroom's," stated the biology department chairman. 
The cost of Phase I is estimated at $100,000 said Hickey. The college is meeting the financial responsibility for this part of the renovation. However, he con­tinued, Phase II is to be financed by outside sources. Phase I must be completed during the summer, while Phase II, has not set com­pletion deadline. 
Besides the renovation in the 
coffee shop and Science Hall, a 
nursing library will be set up in the 
lower level of Madeleva over the 
summer. An audio-tutorial room 
for additional instruction for the 
nursing majors, is also expected to 
be completed in Madeleva late in 
the summer, or in the fall, stated 
Hickey. 


Jim 
'63 
Chuck 
'65 


1723 S. Bend Avenue 272·9800 
SPRING SPECIALS 
*Beer Specials Still On 
*Canada Dry Vodka: $4.44/quart 
* Pikeman Gin: $3.80/ fifth 
*Highland Light Scotch: $4.59/fifth 
* 
Vinya Rose: $2.00/fifth 

* 
13 Brands of Tequila Now in Stock For Your Sunrise 


Have a good summer! We'll see you in Sep­tember-or will it be August this year? 

EASTON EDISON· LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORDER KEGS-
processes of the Observer," said Lutkus. "He took a department that was faltering and completely turned it around. 
Gentine, in commenting on 
hisyear as business manager, cited the experience of the job and the people he worked with. 
"It was a worthwhile job," said Gentine, "not only business-wise, but because of the people I got to know." 
Gentine has accepted a job with a Chicago accounting firm. He will be replaced as business manager by Bob Zogas, a junior accounting major from Oakbrook, Ulinois. 
Kloos, as advertising manager, increased total local advertising in the Observer by 30 per cent. 
"Almost solely because of John the volume of local advertising nearly doubled in the past year," Lutkus noted. "John has run the best advertising department in the history of the Observer." 
Kloos set three major goals for his job when he first came to the Observer. He wanted to improve sales, improve the appearance of the ads, and improve the sales force. He attributes his success in these goals to his upbringing. 
"I owe my success to my 
mother who was always there with 
a good word and a piece of apple 
pie," Kloos commented. 
Kloos has accepted a position 
with a computer corporation, 
which he will assume upon 
graduation. Kloos' successor is 
Bob McManus, a junior who served 
as an Observer advertising 
salesman this year. 
•
announc1ng 
The four expert stylists at the Windjammer will cut hair for 24 hours 
8 a.m. May 11 to 8 a.m. 
May 12  
All  ·proceeds  will  be  
donated  to  the  
Developmental  
Disabilities Center.  


---~---~-­


256-011, 
Cards Books 

• mini·mall Magazines
/ 

~:l 2340 mirade lane
town & country 

..t.opping center -1\..\'-'"' mishawaka. indiana 46544 Art S.·Jpplies 
Warm Weather 
means 
COLD 
DRAFTS 


Nickie's 
New summer hours will be 9 p.m. to closing Don't forget your Nickie 's T-shirt only $2.50 
Have a Great Summer 
CUTATHON 
Call now for an appointment ... 
232-6622 
. .. or just drop in!! I 
ahe WitWjammer 
1637 Lincoln Way W. 
The Cultural Arts Commission presents 
CAMELOT 
starring Richard Harris, Vanessa Redgrave, and David Hummings 
Thursday and Friday May 2nd and 3rd at 7 and 10 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium 
Admission is $1.00 
..­


-----------------~------------­
. .. ... ........ , ~....... ' ...-.-..· ........... ·•· ...~... . Wedn~sday, Mav----'1,__;1:...:.9::__74,________ 
ND Economic Profs aid community 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
Fifth and sixth graders at Disney School in Mishawaka learned basic economics while operating a corporation that produced school pennants. One of their teachers would not have known enough economics to run the programs before he attended an in-service training program for economics education. 
For 10 weeks, South Bend area residents attended a series of seminars on the energy­environment dilemma. Experts in the field came to talk about various aspects of the problem, such as, energy demands, nuclear power, waste disposal and pollution. The evening seminars were free of charge. 
Four professors from the Department of Economics at Notre Dame are responsible for these programs. They are Thomas Swartz, Ken Jameson, Frank Bonello and William Davisson. Together they are the Center for Economic Education at the University of Notre Dame, bringing basic economics education to the community out­side Notre Dame. 
The center was started when Swartz and Jameson realized a common teaching problem. 
Contest being 
held to name 
SMC colleeshop 
A serenaded candlelight dinner for two in the Saint Mary's Coffee­House will be awarded to the winner of the "Name the Coff­eeshop" contest. The contest is being held as the result of the renovation work planned for the coffeeshop, located in the basement of the SMC Dining Hall. 
Entries into the contest should be addressed to Kathy Carrigan at Box 662 LeMans Hall or to SAGA Food Services. The entry deadline is midnight Thursday. 
Voting for the best name will be held during dinner Friday in the SMC Dining Hall. 
Students coming to Notre Dame had no preparation to help them handle college-level economics. Often, economics is not taught before college. The professors discovered that when economics is required, often teachers with in­sufficient training in economics teach from inferior texts. 
So Swartz and Jameson, along with Bonello, began to plan an in­service program for teachers in the South Bend area, in order to give them the basics of economics and help them develop curriculums for teaching the subject. While planning the program, the professors began to make contacts with the Indiana Council for Economic Education at Purdue University, and soon they became the Center for Economic Education at the University of Notre Dame. 
The Indiana Council, supported by Purdue and by business, labor and agricultural groups in Indiana, has local Centers on other Indiana campuses. The Indiana Council is in turn linked to a national organization, the Joint Council on Economic Education. 
Demon Productions Company 
Swartz, Jameson and Bonello ran their first in-service program for teachers in the spring of last year. Fifteen area teachers at­tended five day-long sessions, from the middle of January to mid-May. 
As a conclusion to the program, each teacher developed a project to help bring economics into their classrooms. The most exciting project to come out of the first in­service program was Demon Productions Company. · Demon Productions is the in­vention of Tom Szumski, who attended the program, and two other teachers at Disney School. They took their fifth and sixth graders and formed a corporation from the ground up. 
South Bend teachers have not participated in the programs because the school system in the city has failed to hire substitute teachers for the days that par­ticipants would attend the day-long sessions. 
"The South Bend Community School Corporation has not been terribly open, from our stand­point," comments Jameson. 
But Swartz hopes that in the future, the school system will allow South Bend teachers to attend the program. 
Evening Seminars 
During one of the Thursday night seminars on the energy­environment dilemma, 35 people met at the administration building of the South Bend Community School Corporation to hear Professor John Bell of Purdue University speak on the growing problem of refuse disposal in this country. 
A chemistry teacher from Mishawaka High School attended that night. He and other teachers are planning a curriculum guidance program for economics and the environment in the Mishawaka schools. 
A architect from South Bend was at the seminar. He commented on how he is always being invited to seminars and symposiums, all for a fee. At this seminar, he could take advantage of a university professor and learn something without charge. 
"The information is free and vital," the architect said. 
Notre Dame's center ran these seminars through the help of Purdue and the State Department of Public Instruction. 
"If the Center for Economic Education is part of an integrated thing, then this award is related to the Center," Jameson added. 
Educate the Community 
Professor Swartz sees the overall work of the Center as answering in part University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh's call for education at Notre Dame to go beyond the classroom and into the surroun­ding community. 
Swartz comments, "This is a day around outside the University. So many political discussions spring from an economic issue. You must understand to be able to act." 

As exi<-ting programs continue to succeed, and as new programs are developed, Notre Dame's Center for Economic Education will continue to bring a basic necessary education in economics to the surrounding community. 
planning a \\('(kling'! (':til Tlw 234-5822 \\t•<kli ng Pholo~raplt<,. 
234-5822 MICHAEL LONIER 
~~ ~~~ 
11t_h_·._~_'_·o_'·b_··_s~....::~....::·r_v_,_....:.~..:.~_·_ ___:1:....5=-,..  
Jordan Ford  
will rent you a  
Pinto  
for just  
$5/day  
s~/mile  
LOIS TRANTER  
259-1981  
CRAIG KAPSON  
u-· 
~  
= THE  
BIKE  
PEOPlE  J 1  
Some people s;ry Turin  I  
8icycle has tll" lilrqest  1  
selection of custollr racirHJ  1  
and 'tourinq llicycles and  l  
accessories in AnHHicil. We  
don't know if th.rt's ture. l.Jut we do know we carry an .rwfullot of From Italy: Coln<~r~o. Gdlmour. Poqlrqllr.  l  
From England: 8oil Jdckson. From  I  
From the USA: Eisentrdut  I  
And mon~­fror~  1  
Wl1at 's rnore, uur·IJike  l  
I  
l  
UN 4-7660.­ l  
l  
l  
!  
•,  
!  
J  
1  


A MOTHER'S DAY SPECIAL WITH 
FRANK ZAPPA 
AND THE 

MOTHERS OF INVENTION 
and special guest soon to be announced 
Sunday/ May 12 
7:30pm 

at the Notre Dame A.C.C. 
Tickets are $5.50, $4.50, and $3.50 and are availbable at the ACC Box Office, Boogie Records and the other usual ticket outlets in the 
area. 
PRODUCED BY BOOGIE RECORDS & r<ARMA-SHOWCASE PRODUCTIONS 
• 
of economic ignorance floating 

brands. DeRosa and Crnellr Hetchins, Merciar1, Raleigh, and Carlton. France: Motollecane_ ling, Boll Meyers, and Yellow Jersey. Japan, Holland, Germany. and Arqentin<L experts together have rnore than 100 yeurs of experience lJehind them so vou can count on the l.Jest possible advice and help: 
Tur'n in Chicago [60614], at 1932 North Clark St.-[312] 944-3800 Turrn in Evanston [60201 l, at 1027 Davis Street--[312] 
Refresher course. 

From one beer lover to another. 
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 
16' the obs·erver-,; · Wednesday, May 1, 1974 
Reactions to subpoena mixed 
By HOWARD FIELDS Capitol offices of most of the 38 equitable way to approach an Many committee Republicans
tapes in the White House in
WASHINGTON (UPI) committee members, most of extremely difficult problem," said they would have preferred
order to verify the transcripts.
Republicans on the House the messages opposed to the Goldwater said. "If that is not that Nixon include Doar and
Nixon's offer did not include 
Judiciary Committee Tuesday President's position. One GOP enough for the Rodino commit­John M. Doar and Albert Jenner in the listening opera­accepted with some misgivings office said it got 29 telegrams tee, I am afraid I will have to tion, if not actual delivery of
Jenner, the chief impeachment
President Nixon's decision to in the first mail and all were reach the conclusion that the counsels whom the committee the tapes to the full committee. furnish only th~ transcripts of unfavorable to Nixon. During House Judiciary Committee, on wanted included in any such But .they appeared weary of the the morning, 4,500 telegrams a question of the very greatest
subpoenaed Watergates tapes, compromise verification effort. wrangling and ready to accept 
but they were ready to battle arrived at Rodino's office and national importance, has decid­the transcripts alone. any Democratic attempt to most of them opposed Nixon. ed to play a partisan role Rhodes, who had been acting With the press of other reject the offer. But Nixon got some strong aimed at vote-getting rather as a liaison between committee legislative business, few if any 
Committee Chairman Peter support from Republicans in than truth-getting." Republicans and the White of the members took time to sit 
W. Rodino, D-N .J., declined both Houses, including the In dispute was Nixon's offer House for a compromise, said down and read all of the 1,200­television network offers for endorsement of Sen. Barry M. to allow Rodino and Edward he viewed the Nixon offer as page transcripts, delivered in equal tiime to respond to Goldwater of Arizona. Hutchinson, ranking GOP com­"not favorable." But he called two brown cardboard folders Nixon's Monday night speech. "I believe this is a fair and mittee member, to listen to the it "substantial compliance." for each member. 
An aide said Rodino did not want to participate in a political game and House Speaker Carl Albert, D-Okla., said it would not be a good idea for him to accept it. 
Soon after delivery of the transcripts from the White House, committee Democrats scheduled a caucus to discuss their possible recourse to what they considered less than full compliance with the committee subpoena. 
Democrats generally spoke harshly of the Nixon offer­calling the transcripts a "mish­mash" and a "coverup"-but they appeared to have reached no consensus on what to do about it. Republicans seemed to want to accept the transcripts and drop the issue. 
Committee Republicans held their own half-hour caucus with the House GOP leadership. House Republican Leader John 
J. Rhodes of Arizona said "the overwhelming majority of the people in the room felt the President was in substantial compliance with the subpoena," but he said there were a few dissenters. 
The station wagon-load of transcripts was delivered to the impeachment inquiry headquar­ters one-half hour before the 10 
a.m. EDT deadline stipulated in the subpoena, ~hich demanded tape recordings of 42 conversa­tions. 
Telegrams poured into the 
Starts Friday 
JD7 S IIJthtt•• St. 288 780() 
(jJJOI!EATRE ; 
THE 
WAY 
WE WERE 


t ---t 

ride on yourcollege textbooks 
It's easy-when you finish with your books, you trade them in for cash! Then head out and get yourself a new set of wheels. 
Whether it's enough for an old beater or a brand new 10-speed depends on how many books you've got to sell, what condition they're in, and whether or not they'll be used again next term. 
Whatever you want to use the money for it will sure beat just letting them lie around collecting dust. So bring your books over to the professional book buyers at the bookstore now, while your book is worth the most it wi II ever be. 
Wait too long and chances are your books won't be worth a bicycle pump. 
sell them for cash at 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
MAY 13 & 14 
(; 

----------------... ~ 

the obse·rver ;~ 17-.. 

Wed~!~~a~, ~Y_l~,-1~9~74~--------------------------------­
Observer insight
Angers rejects not told reason 

by Jim Eder and Mark Frazel Staff Reporters 
For the past six weeks two ap­plicants for the Sophomore Year Abroad Program in Angers, France, have been trying without success to find out why they were rejected. 
At the end of last semester fresh­B~~~;.ean~n~er~~r:;~sC:d t called back in a week t \· h t? come informed them that; IC ~: h~ 
a ey wo n? be_ to_ld the reas~ns for their~~~~bt~~!~go~s:~ Slrn)ly a~visthed 
I erose ves o e 
fact that they could not go abroad. When asked whether there were 
. 
only a certam number of ~tudents who could be accepted mto the program, Broestl replied with a g~ing thrgugh administrative 
1
c a~me s, unne and Hammond ~ecided to turn to Student 
overnment for help. They called Student Body President Pat d!V!cLaughlin _and explained their I1emna to h1m. 
McLaughlin agreed that the 
students should be 1·nformed of the reasons for their rejection and on April 28, wrote a three-page lett 
er 

to Burtchaell explainging the facts of the case as he understood them and requesting that some action be 
taken immediately. 

"We repect the right of the University to accept or reject the students of this program " wrote 
McLau hlin, "but we feel' that the 
U . g_t t t th . h
mvers1 y mus respec e ng t 
of the student to know why he-she h b . t d , 
as een re]ec e · 
This position 1s very similar to the one held by Dunne and Ham­mond throughout the matter "We 
are not questionin the · mittee's authorit ~ acce com-reject students; ~e do, ho::ve~r 
· ' feel tha_t the mvolved studen~s have a nght to know on what basis 
th · t' h b d 
e re)ec IOn as een rna. e. We also feel we have had a nght to 
appeal the case." 
definite "No." 

men Paul Dunne and William 
Early in April, Dunne and

Hammond met with their 
Hammond went to see Associate

professor, Bernard Doering, who 
Provost William Burke. They were 
Send her the FTD Sweet Surprise 

told them that they were in good 
told at this time that Doering 
.,.,,........~,• for Mother's Day (May 12th). 

shape to be accepted into the 
would be informed of Burke's 

program. According to a 
findings on April 11, and that they 

University brochure, a 2.5 cum­
would learn of the results when

mulative grade point average and 
Sweet Surprise,
they returned from Easter 

a B-in the concerned language 
arranged,
vacation. Neither Doering nor the 
usually available

are required for selection. Both 
students received any information. 
for less than

Dunne and Hammond met these 
Burke_ claimes that he could not

requirements by their first­
comply with his earlier promise,

semester academic records. 
because he was unable to speak

In February on the second night 
with Provost• James Burtchaell.

of scheduled interviews, with the 
Dunne and Hammond returned

selection committee, which con­
to Burke on April 18 but were

sisted of Doering; Fr. Laurence 
simply told to come back four days 
PITTSBURGH'

Broestl, director of all foreign 
later. On April 22, there were told

study programs; and Jacques 
that they were not to retuurn until

Wendel, another French professor. 
PAINTS
Burke called them, for he did not

James Ward, the Director of the 
Sweet Surprise,
have an answer yet. That same

Angers program, was not present 
Student Discounts
planted,
day Broestl encouraged the

at th is meeting, but he met with 
usually available 
students by saying that he had 
for less than

the students approximately one 
on Latex Wall
talked to Ward and that he would

week later. 
try to get the committee to meet 
Send it today. It

Dunne and Hammond did not 
Paints 
again. 
couldn't be easier. Rt~~xd%631'

believe that anything had been 
''As an independent
On April 24, Ward told the

discussed during the interviews 
Just call or visit businessman, each 
Home Decor Center
FlD f.'errber Florist 
students that they were the victims 

that would have hurt their chan­
your nearby FTD Florist. Tell him 
sets his own prices. 
College square
of "double dealings" on the part of

ces. Doering assured them that 
you want the FTD Sweet Surprise:M 
e 1974 Florists' 
121 W. McKinley
Broestl and Doering. The same

they would be accepted and even 
One's all flowers ... the other, growing Transworld Delivery 
day Broestl told Dunne and 
Mishawaka, Ind.

talked with them about organizing 
plants with flower accents. Both
Hammond that there was nothing

a basketball team in France. 
Ph. 256-1511
come in dainty hand-painted ceramic 
that he could do and that they

On March 20, Dunne and 
Open Mon-Fri 8-6
flower buckets. An Extra ToucW
would have to resign themselves to

Hammond both received letters of 
gift she'll love. Your FTD Florist can 
Sat -8-4
not gaoing abroad.

rejection. Doering was apparently 
send your Sweet Surprise almost 
After having attempted for over

shocked and advised the two 
anywhere in the U.S. or Canada. "Your Extra Touch Aorist"
a month to solve their problem by

students to fight the decision. 
•


Mature, responsible Grad R.M.K.: To mercy, pity, peaceNOTICES Get 'r e~r shees fi)(ea Rew, student needs house for and love. All pray in their before you go home at TONY'S summer session. Contact Jack distress. Happy 19th.
CLASSIFIED ADS

Philly Club Gaggage truck. SHOE SHOP. Also, come in and Lee. 
Make reservations now. Call see our newest item -hand­53 Greentree Drive A little sparrow flew to meSteve. 234-8650. made sandals. Wheeling, W. VA. 26003.
Guitars: old Stritocaster and LOST AND FOUND upon a tallish day. Telecaster '73 Les Paul Deluxe And with me for those winter
REA EXPRESS: 24 hour Air 2bicycles, man's and woman's,
FOR SALE '71 Peavey Bass Amp. 150 Lost: Puppy, black with brown months

service, also surface trucks, 3-speed a I so 1 10-speed. George 
insured, door to door, CASH ON 283-1234 and 287-4425.
Watts, Vega Bottom. Call Tom markings. Part Shepard. Last Did my little friend stay.
Handmade indian Turquoise • 288-4297. seen at N.D. baseball game

DELIVERUY, competitive But came the spring and birds
Jewelry from New Mexico. 
Saturday. Needs medication

rates. Pickups behind N.D. PERSONALS and bugs
Fine selection of bracelets, For Sale: Refrigerator and immediately Call 287-2581 or My fiend must fly away.

boolstore May 4 1-4 May 11: 11­rings, watchbands, accesories. 
come by 810 Howard.

1May 13 : 3-5 also Stephen May chest of drawers. Call Tom 234-To D. S.M.: Good luck on Sat. And here I'II stay until he
Call 7833 or drop by 10 Lyons. 

4661. comes
llz: 1-3 and SMC Parking lot from the bottoms of the ocean
Lost: Last month, brown eye 
...

May 11: 3-5 Further in­to the mountains of the moon. upon a tallish day.
For Sale: Panasonic 8-track FOR RENT 
glasses near O'Shaughnessy.

formation call 1022, 1061. Ellen: Best of luck in '74. Keep
tapedeck. 1 yr. old -call Gary 
Mary 1333. 

Ring taken from Mark John­smiling and remember that233-4669 or at Observer office. House for Rent: 4 bedrooms.
CHEAPEST WAY TO WANTED son's bathroom during Arnst. million bucks you got. Sr.
Newly furnished. Wall to wall

TRAVEL! SCOOTER Britain­party. Please put in on-campus
Panasonic SE-990 combination carpeting. Close to Campus. 
Shary M. Monday night haveEurope S33 a week. Lam­HELP WANTED! OVERSEAS mail in care of Observer. Your

-turntable, AM-FM stereo, Available for summer and fall me more reasons to exist.

bretta ;seats two. Also Cassette Air suspended JOBS : Australia, Europe, a Jewel!. 
ocupency. Graduate students 
Matt.

worldwide overland camping S.Amertcan, Africa. Students
speakers. $140. Dave 3279. only. Call AI Brasseur 289-2463 
Dave and Mike: Two more

and lowest air fares. Trail aII professions and occupations SMC Jnunior officers. Gorman,
before 5 p.m. 
bunnies sighted near the Dome.

Blazers TOLL FREE 800-223-S700 to $3000 monthly. Ex­McGuinness, McGowan, 
5586. penses paid, overtime Shahade. Vote -May 3. 
'65 Dodge Coronet. Good 
Ready for a romp? Someonecondition. $275. Ph. 272-5425. STUCK HERE FOR THE who knows.
sightseeing, Free Information:
SUMMER? Apt. for rent; $75 a

Experienced typist will do: TRANSWORLD RESEARCH Congradulations, good luck and
Sears B&W 19 inch T.V. Perfect month, includes utilities and Mary Patricia Virginia-Sugarterm papers, manuscripts, etc. CO. Dept. F3 P.O. Box 603, much love to all the graduating

condition $60. Ph. 272-5425. furnishings. Call 232-9518. 

Magnolia) Ratzers! Its your ter. I'LL MISS YOU! MOM 
Call 233-5332. Corte Madera, CA. 94925. senior Observer staff memn­
19th birthday. Have a happy1962 MGA 1600 Mark II. Good Partially furnished house. May Wanted: 1 or 2 bedroom one! Your buddies.

Summer Storage: Reserve 
condition make offer. Call 3648. 20 to Sept. 272-6174 App. apartment for married couple.

space now at Mrs. Cooper's . To all my Trib subscribers and 
clean, dry, secure and Sunday buyers: Many thanks
mornings, evenings. Must be within walking To the first women of BadinFURNITURE: Living room distance of I.U.S. B. Call John and B.P.: Thanks tor a great 2
reasonable. Will pick up out­for your patronage ( and your
and bedroom. Excellent Three, four and six bedroom 282-1568. 
years together. Peace and loveside dorm. 272-3004. silver coinage). Good luck on

condition, reasonable price. houses available for summer Of3eRiRg fer R'larriea grad always. SKI.

your finals and have a festfulMust relocate. Call 272-0456. or fall term. Call 234-9364 Mrs. student June 1. Use of 3
THE DOMINICANS -summer. Henry 8851. educators, preachers, pastors, Humbarger. bedroom modern house. Stall Golden Boy: I've heard all the
For Sale: Matching pink and and feed for horse for 20 hrs. trouble my origional ( and

missionaries, counselors. A Robert -a girl couldn't have a
yellow flowered bedspreads Hou~e for rent over surnmE'r on work per week caring for only) ad has given you. It
community of men praying and better replacement. The
and curtains-$15; McCandless N.D. Ave. 2 blocks frorn horses and farm maintenance. hasn't been me. I'm very sorry.

working together, bringing the Liaison.
room-size pink shag rug . $12 Campus. 3 or 4 persons. $140 Graduating Law student now A Close Observer.
Word of the Gospel to the Call 4027. rent Call 283-8373 or 1373. on part-time job, .1,2 or 3 yt.
spiritual, intellectual and Dear M.M.: Well, what can 1
contract for right person .. Ph.

social needs of the world today. say? I don't know. it's been To all my friends,
For Sale: Honda 71 CB-100 Furnished house near Campus. 272-3097. Manion Farm.

Write to Rev. Joseph Payne real. Love Me. For all we've shared,
Very good condition. Call Jim, 5 bedroom. May 20 to Aug.20.

O.P., 5 Hill House Avenue, New With all my love,
234-8052. $160 a month. Stop at 605 St. DESPERATE! Need 1 Thanks. Liz

Haven, Conn. 06505. To my two moral supports: Royal partable manuel Campus View Apt. Call 3300 or 
Peter anytime. roommate for 2 bedroom 

Thanks for all the lifts. Love Baggage truck going to New Little Kid.
typewriter. Excellent con­1:l09.

RIDES WANTED Dear Kapu,Haven and Southern Con-
I dition. Price negotiable. Call 1 N.D.grad ('73) seeks ac­The Internationalnecticuit. For information call J.B.: Moody Blues-NewSally 1347. 
Desperately need ride to North comodations for this summer _ Association tor the
Jan 8048. Horiz_ons. Love You, Your
Jersey-N.Y.C area. Can leave June 26 to Sept. 1, possibly as Prevention of Cruelty to
Natalte.
1971 Honda CB-100 $250. 

alte aft. May 13 or after. Call late as Oct. 1. Must be near Cockroaches has asked TheMet Club: 11\iasher-dryer. -$50. Call 234­Jim 1409. campus, quiet and cheap. Observer to cancel your
Deposeits will be collected H.M.D. Love G.B.R. P.S. What
8052. Answer by Air Mail . A. G subscription. They have
Wed. May 1 Morrissey Lounge school do you go to?. 
5-7 p.m. 
Need ride to Philadelphia -can Brenner, Queen's College failed to give us adequateGIANT HOUSE SALE! Chair, leave May 16 (possibly sooner) Oxford OX 1 4A.W. England: reason for this request, so
Bikes, typewriters, golf clubs If I were Boonnie and you were
couch, table and chairs, water

will not be taken unliss deposits Call Kaven 4904. Clyde, together we might... het we have. waited until the
bed and bar with assorted signs 3 or 10 speed bike reasonably 

are received. For information caug~t. Your absence Ed, will last edition to honor it. Bye.
and a lamps. CHEAP!! (Want priced. Call Bob. 7121.
Need ride to Boston May 13 or

call Bill Kelly 234-5193. be mtssed. Your Lover.
to get the hell out of here!) Pete later. Call Jim 8549. 
2 foot window fans. Also
234-2098. 

This month marks the first Need ride to Tampa May 9 or 10 anniversary of Ann Kloos'
Inexpensive transatlantic Cassette recorder (Good Kathy, It's the hand on the knee 
flights to Europe and more. condition, low price) Call 255-so be areful J.R.
Advent 201 Cassette deck. Pair Clal 7683. infamous campaign to winCall Shawn. 233-4818. 9361.

of large Advent loudspeakers. 
the Lumen Christi Award.

Doonesbury, Ansel Adams, Excellent condition. Call Terry Need ride to Long Island May HELP WANTED: N.D. student Cannibal: You may not be On the count of three,backpacking books. Reading at 1854· 1 c 11 895 to help lpad trailer for weak U.M.O.C. but you're number 1
5" a 8 · graduatt'ng law students on with me. Crazy Lady. everyone turn towards laffs, thrills, and chills. In-
LeMans Hall and pray. formation to you.Jrom 'P.~tn' · 1 .o! 2 Leon Russell tickets N.eed ride to Cleveland Friday,, May_ 9th. S3 ~~ h.our. Equ111 .. H . . One, two, three ..·. •
_!!ora's Books. . . . . . 1bleacher} for-'Safe. Call 7683. May 3. Calt Mary e·eth -4003~ ·,· emploY-ment.-epporh/altY.,'·,287:-, ~.'· _!IP~Y•.2•]stptrt~ay Janet. Btx 
~~~--------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~:::___l1~17~-------~~--~~==~~a:n~~~t~h~e~~~~~~·rn~m~6~B~F~Ia~n~n~er~.~~~--~~--~--~~~--_j.,,. 

_l_B___t_h_e___,o.-b_s_e_r_v_e_r____-'W4tdnesday, May 1, 1974 
Track wins out lor Mike Housley 
by John Fineran 

It was a wonder Mike Housley's parents ever got to see their son during the winter months of his ninth year of school. 
The Irish middle-distance ace from Toronto participated in three sports 1during those days -­basketball, track and, of course, hockey. It got quite hectic at times, particularly when all three sports were scheduled the same day. 
"I finally got the bug to run in grade 10," he remembers. "I had been playing organized hockey for eight years since I was seven, and I got tired of the sport." 
Housley's opponents this season are beginning to wish he hadn't, and they almost got their wish. That is, until Notre Dame coach Don Faley recommended his runner stop his interhall ice ac­tivity. 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, Faley stepped in just in time for -,.. the current outdoor season. The Irish are enjoying success in both the two-mile and four-mile relays. 
"I've been waiting two years for this," Housley admits. "We've never had the legs before (either he or Mike Gahagan being injured the first two years). We always thought we would excel if we had them." 
The Notre Dame record for the four-mile relay used to be 16:55 until Housley, Jim Hurt, Jim Reinhart and Joe Yates lowered the standard by nine seconds this season. And Housley, Hurt, Reinhart and Gahagan, this year's Central Collegiate Indoor 1000­yard champion, are threatening the Irish mark, of 7:22.8 in the two­mile relay. 
What makes the last record impressiveis that Rick Wohlhuter, a former Irish great and now one of the world's premier half-milers, ran one of the legs. Still, the current Irish foursome is but six-tenths of a second off the mark. 
"Everyone was really looking forward to the relay circuit," Housley continues. "We were all excited and psyched.'' 
"The reason we're doing well, especially in the two-mile, is that Hurt and Reinhart are running well. They run the middle legs, and middle legs always win the relay." 
It certainly doesn't hurt when your first legger is capable of running a 1:51.8, Housley's per­sonal best for the half-mile. His personal standard for the mile is 
4:07.8. Housley would like to improve on both before the current season ends. His next chances will come against Michigan State Friday afternoon on Cariier Field's gravel. 
"I would like to run a 1:50 half­
mile," he says, "and break the 
school mile record of 4:03.6. I hope 
to get the last one in the CCC 
outdoors." 
But if either comes at the In­
diana State meet this week before 
the Spartan showdown, Housley 
won't mind one bit. The relays are 
just as important to him. 
"When we won the Ohio State 
half-mile relay," he says, "we led 
the whole way. That's the best way 
to run relays." 
"There's a lot to running relays. 
A lot of strategy is involved. I'm a 
proponent of hanging on and 
kicking. I try to tell the others not 
to go out fast, but we have always 
agreed to try and stay up in the 
race. You have to run with your 
head." 
Housley enjoys the track setup at Notre Dame. "It's good here because we haven't been· forced to train like 
maniacs," Housley continues. "It's not 100 miles a week here. We run on our talent. Coach Faley, like Coach (Alex) Wilson before him, doesn't pressure us. 
"I guess I came here because of the school's reputation, and Coach Wilson (his recuiter) was low key. He always assumed I wanted to come here. That impressed me. 
"When I visited Yale in 1970, it was during the weekend of Notre Dame's loss to Southern Cal in the rain. All the kids were cheering for Southern Cal, and it got me mad. I knew then I was more serious about Notre Dame than I thought I was. 
"Notre Dame has also given me a worldly view. I would like to go into law (he's currently studying economics), maybe studying at a Florida school like Frank Shorter and Marty Liquori have." 
The latter trackster has in­fluenced Housley very much. In fact, Mike remembers watching Liquori's dual with Jim Ryun in the Martin Luther King Games a few years back. 
'For the last 660 yards, they stayed the same, Liquori ahead by a foot," he says. "I like his toughness, and he likes to run thE' way I do--hanging on to the end and then kicking. Later the same afternoon, I ran a super half-­1 :54.5-my best at the time. 
"Still the mile is the toughest race to train for greatness. It is so fast and requires much strength. I would like to run 80-90 miles a 
week:-What I would like to do. is take a .yea~ off after graduation and tram thts. way. In order to get und.er four,~mutes, you have to be dedtca.~ed.. . . . 
Dedtcabon ts s?met~mg Mtke Ho,usley has had smce htgh school. 
It s ~he reason he was able to captam the !hree spo~ts and cross-country whtle at Mtchael Power 


On Saturday, May 4, at noontime (between 11:15 and 1 p.m.) outside both the north and south dining halls, we will attempt to express visibly our concern for iustice, peace, and reconciliation. In an effort· to manifest solidarity with those who suffer and experience oppression, we will fast from the noon meal. You are invited to ioin us as a sign that you, too, share these concerns. 
-signed: 

~­
Pat McLaughlin 
John Dunne, CSC David Sparks Bill Toohey, CSC Dean Tom Shaeffer Bob Griffin, CSC 
Jude Bremer Frank Flanagan 
Tom McNally, CSC 
Jim Burtchaell, CSC 
Claude Pomerleau, CSC Tom Stella, CSC Kathy Osberger Bob Howl 
Madonna Kolbenschlag, HM 
John Cimino 
Msgr. Jack Egan David Dreyer David Schlaver, CSC Mary Beckman Don Sniegowski Don McNeill, CSC John Macheca Jim Gresser Helen Gallagher Mike McCaffertyI esc Jerry Barmisse, CSC Elizabeth Fiorenza Jane Pitz, CSJ Joe McTaggart, CSC David Burrell, CSC Maury Amen, CSC Ann McCarry Bill McLean 


(continued from page 20) 
. "Right now, I'm just concerned come sooner," he finishes. "I was about playing well and hoping the rather indifferent in high school team plays well," Betz admits. where I wanted to go, but I visited "it's just trying to set a good here and liked it. example." "Notre Dame certainly has lived 
Betz certainly hasn't regretted up to its reputation. I've enjoyed coming to Notre Dame. If there is my four years here, and I am going anything he does regret, it's this to miss it. This is the first year the season being his last. optimism has been different." 
"I wish the season could have 


Wednesday, May 1, 1974 the observer 19 
Notre Dame's 
... 

Mike Townsend 
Dave Casper 
National Championship 

Brandon Walsh 
Anne Cisle and Charlie Morrison 
Class 

Joe O'Connor 
John Shumate 

.Eddie Bumbacco of 1974 

Mark Kronholm 
,, 

20 the observer Wednesday, May 1, 1974 
-
Recruiting keys Lefty's hopes for -filling gaps 
by Bob Kissel 

Even thinking of ice hockey in warm, blustery April and May could bring stares of disbelief, unless the person doing the thinking happens to be varsity 
hockey coach "Lefty" Smith. For "Lefty" Smith and nine other
WCHA hockey coaches, the end of 
·1 · f' 

Apr1 stgni 1es the culmination of weeks of freshman recruiting-receiving national letters of intent to play hockey. 
The success or failure of spring recruiting can greatly affect the course of regular season action and being hockey coach at Notr~ Dame \presents Coach Smith a whole range of unique recruiting problems. "When we look at a boy, he must be a good student and a balanced person, as well as a good hockey player," explained "Lefty" Smith. "The requirements the 
Notre Dame student athlete must meet greatly narrow the scope of possible prospects." "The Canadian talent this year was not as strong as it has been," explained Coach Smith,. and the r~lly g~d play~rs are still young, which Will show m the NHL draft 
after the playoffs. Fortunately Clar~ Ha~1~ton, and Pat Conroy. Minnesota has a bumper· crop• of :"-t this position we have a letter of fine high school players." ' mt~tfrom a real good ~enter, Jeff 
Graduation bas hit the Irish Collter from Montreal. 

hockey program very bard this Tim Byers, Jim Augustine, Pat year. Nine excellent seniors, Novitski, Alex Pirus, and David Kronbolm and Smith in goal, Howe all return next year at their Bumbacco, Williams, and Tardani wing position, hopefully providing at wings, and Curry, Nyrop, and a strong defensive threat. "All Schafer on defense, have fmished tbr f eshm · 
their ND-car-eers, lea:vmg· behind a ee r en wings are coming
from Minnesota," added the Irish solid, growing hockey program. coach. "Kevin Nugent from 
For Paul Betz, practice makes perfect,almost 
. by John Fmeran 
The secret to success in any 

sporting event is the willingness of 
the athlete to practice his craft. 
Golfer Paul Betz and his Irish 
teammates realized this last 
winter, and perhaps this has been 
the key to their success thus far 
this season. 
"All the practice we've had this 

season certainly h.as paid off," the 
senior co-captain from Toledo 
Ohio says. "But we're still 
working hard." 
"We've made a lot of sacrifices 

this season. During the winter 
months, we hit balls every other 
day. Hitting balls into a net doesn't 
really tell you how well you're 
doing, but it does give your swing 
muscle memory." 
Blue-Gold game tickets available 
The annual Blue-Gold in­trasquad football game winding up Spring Practice will be held in Notre Dame Stadium on May 4 at 
1:30 P.M. 
Students will be admitted upon 

presentation ID cards at GATE 
FIFTEEN ONLY. 
General Admission tickets for 

the public are available at the 
Ticket Sales Wt\ndow, Athletic and 
Convocation 'Center, priced at 
$2.00 for adults, $.50 for children 12 
and under. Tickets will also be 
available at the Stadium the day of 
the game. Dates, wives, St. 
Mary's students, parents, etc., 

must have tickets. No seats will be 
reserved. 
The game is sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley and supports the Club's Scholarship Fund which currently sustains twelve students of this area at the University. 
Notre Dame is also one of the few WCHA clubs to have an active junior varsity program. JV coaches Tim MCNeill and Kevin Hoene concluded another sue­cessful season this year-in terms of a winning record and also in terms of player improvement. 
So faced with heavy graduation 
d h Iped
~n . e .bY strong varsity and 
)Un~or varsity returnees, "Lefty"
Sm1th concentrated his recruiting efforts in Minnesota, Western Canada, Montreal, New York, and Massachusetts. 
"Determiningwhowill be in goal next year will be a definite problem," remarked coach Smith. Both Tom McCurdy and Dave Caron from!theJVs have improved impressively this past season and are very much in the picture. We are fortunate to have recruited two bright, young goaltenders, John Peterson out ofthe Montreal area 
d L M
~~ade~~~. oher from Phillips Handling faceoff and playmaking duties is not as un­clear for next year as is ltoalten­dinll. At center_ice, three players with 1 solid experience and fine·. talentarereturning·Brian Walsh -. ' 
"We played handball and 
basketball to stay in shape so that when the snow finally melted and we went out on the course, we were ready to play. I think we've done as. much as we could to prepare for this season, and this is why I think we deserve to make the NCAA's." 
Practice certainly has paid off for Betz and the rest of his teammates. Already this season, Coach Noel O'Sullivan's players have won three dual matches by impressive margins and finished a highly-credible third in the In­dianapolis Invitational. In those five rounds, Betz has averaged76.6. 
"I guess consistency is the strongest part of my game," he continues. I never hit anything really bad, and no part of my game really falls apart. 
"If you go out and expect not to do well, you won't. Golf is a mental game, one bad shot can ruin your round. If you concentrate, you have a chance. 
"At the Indianapolis Invitational, I wasn't playing well. The course gave me a lot of trouble, and I was concentrating so hard I got a severe headache." 
More often than not, though, golf has kept Paul Setz in good spirits. At St. Francis deSales High School in Toledo, Betz played golf three years, serving as the squad's captain his junior and senior campaign. He was selected all­city for three seasons and helped lead the school to the city cham­pionship as a sophomore. 
At the conclusion of his senior year, Betz was given the Mel Wolfing Award as the outstanding high school golfer in Toledo. And while the award was one of the finance major's biggest thrills, another one ranks even bigger. 
"I had a hole-in-one as a high school freshman," he confesses with pride.
(continued on page 18) 
Edina, Jackson from Bloomington, and Baumgartner from ·West St. Paul should give us added depth at both wings." 
The Irish look solid at defense for next fall, as has been the tradition with Coach Smith, a former blueliner himself. An able junior and three strong freshmen. Les Larson, Paul Clarke, Roger Bourque, and Jack Brownschidle all re~urn with extensive varsity expenence. 
Add to these four veterans the likes of junior varsity standouts like Lou Curry and Dave Bossy and the blue line corps looks good in strength · and depth. To sup­plement his lines at defense "Lefty" Smith has recruited tw~ high school seniors who are brothers of present players, Dick Howe and Dan Byers. 
"I believe we had a very recruiting year," commented "Lefty".'"'We were able to more 

than adequately fill the positions Coach Lefty Smith will miss more than a few faces next year, but by the which we felt were weak because same token he should welcome some added help. of heavy graduation. With our Soto a11 th 1r·1sh first home finally. . e fans who can Irish series ~etl;U'Dmg varsity regulars, eager still remem~r the bedla~ which arrive~, the "Lefty" Smith brand of ]uruor varsity· players, and the fnsued durmg the trrst Michigan collegiate hockey w1U sing into new fresh_men . r~cruits, our ech home game be patient until high gear, bringing the Irish pr~nfam will defmi~~ly be com-~e grey clouds and flakes of snow fanatics to the edge of their seats-· pe ve next sea110n. m November return. When the and then off. 
Greg C.rgan~:&).:::.::.:::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::=:::=======~=================================:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=======~===========================================:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The lrlah Eye 
~~~===::::e~~~-m.,;::::::::::::::::&::::::?..:::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::; Tile rear i.a review 

For Notre Dame athletics it could have been the 
year of all years. In football it truly was. 
But the fall of 1973 was one of optimistic ex­pectations and very high hopes for everybody. After ~ll the basketball team was returning a squad that mcluded every starter from the previous year's NIT runner ups not to p1ention some highly touted fresh­
men. The. l_rish icers claimed to havt; had their very best recru~tmg year to date, and despite the loss of some top fhght per!ormers i.n John Noble, Paul Reagan, and Mark Stemborn, Irtsh fans expected to walk into the NCAA's. Ironically enough the most pessimism was cast upon the football team. In their last two games of the '72 season the Irish had been shellacked by Southern C~l a~d by Nebraska on that bizarre evening in ~1am1. The thought of a national championship was distant, clouded but the presence of such powerhouses as USC, Alabama, Oklahoma, Michigan, and Ohio State. But everything fell into place. The Irish made some of their breaks andreceivedothers-some on a silver platter. Freshman Luther Bradley moved into a vacant strong safety position and was superb; the same can be said for defensive end Ross Browner and halfback AI Hunter. Tom Clements came into his own 
and ran a potent Notre Dame offense with authority. Then there was Rice and a 28-o win, and Army 62-3, and S~uther~ Cal. Ifthe students here deserve part of 
any VICtory 1t was that 23-14win over the Trojans. The campus was like it had never been before. After SC there was Navy (44-7), Pittsburgh (31-10) 
Air Force (48-15), and probably the most perfect game the Irish played all year, a 44..0 triumph over Miami back in the Orange Bowl, back to erase 
memories .of Nebraska.. . . 
Meanwhtle the possibility began to evolve. Michigan and Ohio State tied 1o-10, Southern Cal fell apart, and Oklahoma was on probation. Alabama convincing!~ des~oyed LSU on Thanksgiving and entrenched I~elf m the number one position, a spot
they held until .January 1. 
On Deeember 31 in Tulane Stadium the Irish met the Crimson Tide. BiU Davis missed a 20 yard extra point, and Bob Thomas hit a 19 y11rd field goal. Tom Clements hit Robin Weber with a cruciaH third down pass, and the Irish were winners 24-23. Notre Dame 'Yas·n~mbe~ one, and undefeated and untied for the 
first time smce 1949. Digger Philps made a valiant, no less spectacular 
attempt to equal the accomplishments of Ara Par­
seghian and the football team. The fad was an un­
defeated season and through the first 12 games of the 
campaign Digger had just ·that. He needed a little 
help from Dwight Clay and an unbelievable 
come~a~k before 11,343 beserk fans on January 19, to 
keep It mtact, but for that one precious week the 
Irish cagers shared the glories of the football t~m. 
They were number one. 

A rematch with the Bruins broke the string but the Irish J!icked up where they left off ~ting Marquette m the ~o~vo and ending South Carolina's 36 gam~ home wt~mng stre!lk in Columbia. 
The ln~h g?t their NCAA bid at the end of February, and despite fmal game loss to Donnie Smith and the Dayton Flyers, Notre Dame had its best regular 
season record since 1908, 24-2. 
T~e NCAA . t?urnament started in grandiose fashton. Fir W1lham~ and Austin Peay fell victim to a superb lnsh offens1ve and defensive performance and Digger was off to Tuscaloosa. ' 
Here the bubble burst. Any chance of an un­precedented national championship in football and basketball went down the drain when the Irish locked horns ~ith an inspired Campy Russell and Michigan W?l~en~e team. The result was a 77-68 loss and ehmmat~on from the NCAA's --a heartbreak. 
. ~he Insh beat Vanderbilt in the consolations and f1mshed the season 26-3 looking to the future. John Shumate has left, and Gary Brokaw is undecided but 1975 may still be the year. ' The hockey t~am was disappointing before the playoffs. Nothmg gelled and people expected too 
much. Nonetheless, the Irish icers ended Wisconsin 's unbeaten streak and did make it into the playof~s against Michigan Tech, the team which lost to Mmnesota in the championship round in 
Boston· . . 
The opbmtsm of the 1973-74 season extended to much more than just football, basketball, and hockey· The rugby team was undefeated this fall and earned a trip to Ireland where they were more than 
representative of Notre Dame athletics as well showing a taste for the good life. 
.Fred Pechek took over ~s the wrestling coach, and wtth the help of All-Amer1can Mike Fanning led the squad t? an impressive .finish. Fanning went to the NCAA fmals and made 1t through the second round 
The fencing team made terms like epee, foil, and sab~e seem more than j~t vocabulary words from a foretgn language. The Irish fencersendedup 22-1 as Tom Matrenga, Ed Fellows and Tim Glass per­formed superbly. 
.T~e track and baseball squads have their own in­dlVldua~ stars. Mike Housley set a Notre Dame ~ecord m the pole vault, Mike Gahagan, an Irish 1~P?rt, made the 1!000 yard run an ND specialty, and ~dhe George contmued to dominate the shot put and d1scu~ events. 
Semors Tom Hansen, Pete Schmidt Pat Coleman and sophomore pitcher Bob Stratta make the baseball t~am 's curre~t 11-20 record a little easier to take by vtrtue of their performances this season. 
For lacrosse, crew, sailing, soccer, tennis and cross country, the ~aso~ has had its ups and downs, and no doubt 1975 will bnng more of both. Hopefully for everybody, optimism will be justified, and there will be more ups than downs. 






