
Peace in the Yuletide Season 




Vol. IX, No. 57 servmg the notre dame -~st. mary's community Friday, December 6, 1974 
Paczesny. Sr. Jones give reactions to Mulcahy's housing proposal ... 
"We need an answer soon for the housing office to functionby Ken Bradford 
properly."
Staff Reporter Mulcahy said the problem began when the female student quota Vice President for Student Mfairs Brother Just Paczesny for the University was raised from 1000 to 1500. This changeyesterday criticized a letter sent out by the Housing Office .about 
necessitates finding housing for an additional 500 females in thethe possibility of converting either Flanner or Grace Hall mto a next two years.
women's dormitory next year. 
The decision to admit "extra" women disrupted the on-campus The letter which was senWednesday to hall rectors by Housing housing situation, Mulcahy noted. Unitl the quota was raised, there Director Fr.' John Mulcahy, proposed reconverting Farley Hall for were enough rooms for women on campus.
male use and converting one of the two towers for women. 
Mulcahy called his Farley-Towers plan a "workable solutionPaczesny said the plans have not been discussed by the which could provide an end to the housing problem.'' 
University Officers, the group which has the authority to make The plan would move over 500 women into either Flanner orsuch a choice. The text of Paczesny's statement follows: Grace next year and move about 250 male students into Farley. In"I am disturbed by the letter from the Director of Student 1976, Farley would again become a female residence hall when the Residence to the Rectors. It forced too many students to con­full quota of 1500 females is reached. .
clusions that are unfounded because of inaccurate assumptions." 
The decision to convert one of tthe Towers for female use 1s the"The use of the Towers and Farley Hall as examples of possible most natural solution to the problem, Mulcahy stated.
solutions to the residentiality problems is simply one suggestion "The Towers are the only two dorms which can handle the in­made by Father Mulcahy himself. The final decision does not rest crease of 500 women," he observed.
with the Director of Student Residence, but with the Officers of the Also, Mulcahy noted, Farley and Breen-Phillips currently have aUniversity. At no time have the Officers discussed such a trade-()ff disproportionate number of freshmen a!ld sophomores;. and a newof a Tower for a hall. A number of other possibilities are under dorm of the size of the Towers could realign the class rabo. 
discussion in hopes that the solution will result in as little disruption Mulcahy said the female occupation of Flanner or Grace w?uld 
to present hall life as possible." Assistant Provost Sr. Joh.n . 
provide no special security problems as far as he could determme. 
Miriam Jones agreed with Paczesny's assessment of the s1tuabon. 
He added that there was no reason why one of theTowers would be "Brother Just's statement expresses the actuality of the situation more desirable than the other,and I concur with it," Jones said in her written statement yester-There has been no official discussion of Mulcahy's proposal, the day. , . , housing director noted. He added that, though no other halls h~ve"I regret the timing of Fathe~ Mulcahy .s suggestio~, she been formally discussed as possible for future female use, there 1s acontinued. "Its being coupled w1th the arbcle concernmg the possibility that other plans for female hall conversions will bevarious options tends to enlar~P it hevond its proper_ perspective." 
submitted.
"It is only suggestion and, to m knowledge, one that is under serious consideration," Jones concluded. 
Paczesny is a member of the Officers of the University while· 
••• as dostudents 
Jones is not. Other members of the body include the University President, the Provost, Assistant Provost. and the four ~ther by Lonnie Luna new dorm is definitely the only University Vice Presidents. Mulcahy adm1tted Thursday mght Staff Reporter solution. If the University cannot that the decision to select the next female dormitory would not be afford it, then it should have a
University Housing Director Fr.
his to make and that his plan was not the plan of the Student M­private corporation to come in and 
John Mulcahy's proposal to give
fairs office.' "I can only suggest what I think will work, and I think build on the land it leases," 
one of the towers; to women and
my plan will," Mulcahy stated. . Modular housing might also be the 
return Farley to men met with
The release of the plans in Thursday's Observer, Mulcahy sa1d, answer to housing situation added 
much student resentment at a
was meant to trigger reactions by students and administrators to a McGuire. 
meeting in Grace last night.
situation which he believes needs immediate attention. He added This proposal seems to con­
that he expects student opinions to be funneled through the Hall "If they can move guys off
tradict the University's guarantee 
Presidents' Council and the Student Ll:fe Council. campus, why can't they move,
that female population would not
"I'm in a hurry to get an answer to our problem," Mulcahy noted. girls off campus?" asked fresh­
increase until a new dorm was man Tom Marvinac. "Ifgirls want built and that no more men's equal rights, then they should bedorms would be converted. Lyons treated like the guys," addedHall was the last of the men'.s 
Marvinac. "It is just as dangerousdorms to go. It was taken away in for them as it is for they guys," he December of 1972 and did not concluded.

become girls's dorm until last year. In the original layout, two 
On the other side of the con­

more towers were to have been troversy, the women at Farleybuilt between the present Towers were thinking along the sameand the library. 
lines.

"I was very, very upset. I would hate to see either Tower to go 
"I don't like this at all because because we were starting to get the proposal will move half of the 
things going and as a result, if this 
North Quad female population to proposal does pass, they would be the other end of the campus," said virtually "gone," said Tom Porter, freshman Kathy Berg. "As it is,Grace president. Porter added 

students complain about the male­this proposal would cause a female relationships and then if warped situation seeing that no this happens, there won't be anyfreshman would be admitted--the interaction at all. Guys from the hall would have nothing but South Quad will not come all they
sophomores, juniors and seniors. 
way to the Towers to visit," added "The main problem is not the Berg. There would be a waste of housing·but the fact that 300 girls money to renovate the Towers are coming. We don't have room to Berg concluded. put them anywhere,"stated Frank 

(continued on page 20)

McGuire. Flanner president. "A 
Today is the last issue 
·of theObserver... Next issue will be January 16 

Olthe imide 
Co-education 
Diffe re n:c e s at Yale and Notre D a.m e ...page 4 



Crimson Tide 

~Notre Dame ~again faces J Alabama 
...page 2 4 


the observer Friday, December 6, 1974 

an campu• taday 
1 p.m.-5p.m. -open house, counselling center, room 400 ad bldg 2 p.m.-u p.m. -christmas bazaar, lemans lobby 5 p.m. -mass & dinner, bulla shed 6 p.m.-8 p.m.-fllmthe way we were, eng. aud., $1 6:30p.m.-dinner & dance. "a.chrlstmasogala", albert pick 7p.m.-madrigal dinner, regina lounge, $6.50, call4176 7 p.m.-swim meet. rockne mem 7:30p.m. -internat. students xmas reception, lib lounge 
7:30 p.m. -hockey, nd vs michigan, ace 8 p.m. -play, "fellows", washington hall, $1.50 students, $2 ge admission 8 p.m.-12 p.m.-square dance, stepan center, 25 cents 
saturday, dec. 7 
10-12 a.m.-career workshop, lyon's chapel, karen o'neill 2p.m.-bball game, nd vs princeton, ace 2 p.m. -play, "beauty & the beast", o'laughlln aud. 75 cents 5 p.m. -evensong vespers, Jog chapel 7 p.m.-madrigal dinner, regina north lounge, $6.50, call4176 
7:30 & 10 p.m. -film. hamlet, eng. aud, SO cents 7:30p.m.-film, "did christ visit the americas?", bulla shed, freE 7:30p.m.-hockey, nd. vs. michigan. ace 8 p.m. -boogie extravaganza, observer xmas party, heldleberg Inn, don't miss your chance to boogie with val 8 p.m. -play, "fellows", wash. hall. $1.50 students, $2 gen ad­mission 9 p.m. -1 a.m. smc coffeehouse, 9 p.m. mark prlll, 12 p.m. frank martin, 10 p.m. david feldman & greg peckham, 11 p.m. sail, cc coockies 15 cents 
sunday, dec. 11 
2p.m.-play, "beauty and the beast", o'laughlln aud, 75 cents 4:30p.m.-evensong vespers, lady chapel 7p.m.-madrigal dinner, regina north lounge, $6.50 call ;4176 8p.m.-bball game, dillon II vs. off-campus V, ace gym I 8p.m.-ecumenical advnt service. lewis hall chapel especially for non-catholics 
monday, dec. 9 
5 p.m. -evensong vespers, log chapel 7-9 p.m.-"nd dancer" lessons, Iafortune ballroom $2 8:10p.m. -bball game. nd vs. kansas, ace 
tuesday, dec. 10 
5 p.m.-evensong vespers, log chapel 7L30-9:30 p.m.-"nddancer'' lessons, Iafortune ballroom $2 8 & 10 p.m.-film, "the producers", eng. au d., $1 8:30p.m. -concert, dooble bros., $7, $6.50, $6, ace 
wednesday, dec. 11 
5 p.m.-evensong vespers, log chapel 8 & 10 p.m.-film, "the producers", eng aud, $1 8:10p.m.-bball game. nd vs. Indiana, ace 
thursday, dec 12 
5 p.m.-,evensong vespers, log chapel 
4 p.m.-glee club chorale and chapel choir concert, wash. hall free 8 p.m. -christmas concert, collegiate choir & women's chorus church of loretto 8 p.m.-play, "fellows, wash. hall students & faculty, $1 gen ad.$~ 
l . 
.r 
Junior parents to receive 

information lor weekend 
The Junior Parents Weekend 
committee will begin to mail in­
formation to parents this weekend. 
program'.is scheduled for 
Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, 
February 28, March 1 and March 
2, 1975. 
Plans for the weekend include a 
Friday night hockey game, ND vs. 
Wisconsin and a cocktail party 
afterwards. 
Saturday morning begins with collegiate workshops in which the ·programs in each major are ex­plained and career opportunities all observed. Continuous showings of Notre Dame ic Review will be shown. That afternoon's activities will include a basketball game, ND vs. Dayton. 
Saturday evening will be 
highlighted by the Junior class 
Mass, written by members of the 
class, and · the traditional 
Presidential Dinner. 
The weekend will come to a close 
at a Sunday morning breakfast. 
Included in the first mailing of 
information will be a cover letter 
from Fr. Hesburgh, an explanation 
letter from Pat Boyle; the weekend 
chairman, ticket and reservation 
applications and explanations and 
a schedule of events. 
Boyle sta~ed "Our intentions are 
to get this information to the 
parents this weekend. This way. 
when the students return home for 
break, they will be able to talk to 
their parents about the weekend 
Erratum ND Counseling Center will hold their open bene Friday, December 6 instead of Saturday, December 7 as stated in yester day's paper. The time of th 
o nin remains from 1-5 P.M. 
The Obwrver Is publllhed dally during the college Hmftter except vacetlons by the stiKients or the Un lverslty of Notre Dame ll'ld 5t. Mary's Colleoe. Sub6crlptlons may be purche!.eCI for . $9 per sem~t~ ($16 per veer) from ·The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan posl<~ge paid, Notre Deme, Ind. 46556. 
and make any plans." 
classmates could give up ~ hour 

Junior Class President Augie to help. "We'll be there ~.~day,Grace invited any juniors that are and food and drinks will b fur­interested to stop by and lend a nished, so have a break and stophand on preparations. Grace in," said Grace. For additional stated that he knows time is information call Pat Boyle (283­precious at this time of the 2521), 832 Notre Dame Ave., apt. semester, but he hopes that 2A, or Grace (1504). 
·c NOW RENTING 
A FOR SECOND SE,\1\ESTER 
M 
· · \I' \ p I '1 I''1 ~ \\ I I If 
'1111 'lliJI'I "\1"1)'' 
P TWO BEDROOM FURNISHED 
u 
APARTMENTS 
S Featuring: 

* 
COMMUNITY BUILDING

* 
2 BATHS IN THE 


2 BErnOOM APARTMENTSV * AIR CONDITIONING
* SWIMMING POOL I *.DISHWASHER 
*.RANGEE * REFRIGERATOR
* GARBAGE DISPOSAL
W * BA~KETBALL COURT 
* LOCATION: 3 BL<XKS FROM CAMPUS! 
: 4 t!i 1'\l.!lHf\.1.-\ I IO'\ < .-\LL ~7:.!·1-tH. OH \ 1~1·1 Till-llFFl<T .-\I .-J-16.55 IIUSH WAY. \i' I :n•~. I'H!l\1 1 ilt•-5:00 MU:\DAY lt<!1'•i l!! FHIIHY. !:\(HOS.."i THE 
'-Ti<' 1' I Hll,, I .\l W.\LLY'S• . '.-,., ..
) ',:I 


THE Pt"YBOY CLUB 



OF MIAMI 

® 
WELCOMES NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S TO FLORIDA 
ALL NO & SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY & ALUMN WLL BE ADMITIED BY TELLING THE DOOR BUNNY 'WE'RE THE FIGHTING IRISH." SHE WILL THEN ISSU YOU A GUB'HKEY. (18 1.0. REQUIRED.) CASH 
TRANSACTIONS ONLY. 
The Playboy Club of Miami 7701 Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Florida 
305 751-7543 

Friday, December 6, 1974 the observer 
3 

Pressure began impeachment probe 
Rangel cites power of people 
by Andy Praschak Staff Reporter 
Citing the fact that the "American people have the power to steer the future of their own country," Democratic Representative Charles B. Rangel spoke last night in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium to an audience of approximately 70 feople. 
Rangel, a member of the House Judiciary Committee received national attention after voting for every article for impeachment presented before the committee. He is also chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. 
"We have the potential power in the United States to make certain that elected officials are respon­sive to the people's needs," asserted Rangel. He noted that examples of this power are the number of incumbents defeated in the last election, and the pressure exerted on congressmen for the removal of Nixon from office. 
Rangel said that the pressure people exerted on their congressmen after the firing of Cox first jolted the Congress to begin their investigation. "Without this type of pressure, there will only be meaningless investigations, asis being held now with Rockefeller," Rangel said. 
According to Rangel, this country, without a doubt, has the capacity to exercise its designs and problems and to make certain that the government responds to those needs when it is outraged. "We have to make a commitment that we are going to bring about a change for the better in this country," he said. 
Rangel Speaks on Economy 
Rangel believes that this nation will soon be facing an economic disaster. "It's always the poor and minorities who are asked to pay the most during these times," he said. 
Rankel noted that poor people cannot afford to listen to the White House with its suggestions of 
WIN buttons, victory gardens and cleaning the supper plates. "Suggestions such as these just go to prove the old American addage that anybody can become president," said Rangel. 
Rangel point out that with thirty five per cent of black youth out of work, this country can not afford to cut funds to domestic programs while the defense department remains untouched in its budget. "We cannot afford to have a Pentagon with its Dr. Strangelove concepts," he noted. 
By providing funds for domestic jobs, Rangel said that they would not only be taking people off welfare roles, but they would also give job opportunities to those who are least likely to be able to protect themselves. 
It's the People's Choice 
There is a serious lag between the time Congress recognizes a problem and the time it starts to work toward a solution, according to Rangel. "We have to place some of the blame for thsi problem on the people for their choice of representatives," said Rangel. 
Rangel continud by asking if any member of the audi~nce kne\y who 


.. 

was representing their distri~t at the mini-convention being helq in Kansas City this month. The audience responded negatively. 
"Any system that offers a choic~ between Richard Nixon and Hubert Humphrey in an election has to be reviewed," he said. He pointed out that if people do not know who is selecting the can­didates at conventions, they will again find themselves stuck without a choice. 
Urging blacks to take an active part in the coming elections, 
Rangel cited that tRbe number of pears to be. "Ford proved himself elected black officials has risen insensitiv to the black community over 52 percent since 1965. Rangel by saying he agreed with the 
himself was reelected to his position of the whites in the Boston present office with 96 percent of area, even though he was against 
their use of violence," notedthe vote. 
"If there is one thing the people Rangel. in this country should be assured of He also revealed that Ford tried having, it is the availability of to weaken every Civil Rights Act health care," explained Rangel. brought before the House but He then explained his desire to see voted for them when their passage a national health program initiated was inevitable. 
Evaluating the present tax laws,in Congress. 
Noting the contrast, Rangel said Rangel point out that millionaires that the U.S. spend a huge amount and large corporations are not 
on planes, bombs and guns but so paying a cent while President Ford little for the welfare of human is proposing a five percent surtax on anyone making over $7500. "We
lives. 
have to evaluate who is making theRangel Evaluates Ford 
profits while President Ford is asking ust o make the sacrifices,"Speaking on President Ford, he noted.
Rangel said that he had hoped that He continued by saying that ifhe would be stronger than he ap­
1'~­
I :;sL _: 
. ~ <~-~-, lO~ ,
·. ·. ~~"0i5.:~ '
I
• ~-~~-";.'! I ;:):.!" 

I, :J~~~t~·:: . 
,M~·;•• ,,-,<,,+:..M-:~J>J<' 
people are being asked to sacrifice sugar this holiday season, the sugar companes should be asked to sacrifice some of the 1000 percent profit they are presently making. 
Rangel said that he is tired of talking about Attica, large black population in the prisons and the inhumanity shown to prisoners. "We must begin to think of the prisoner as an investment and train him in a skill rather than just locking him up and spending $10,000 a year on him. 


Academic Council meets to hear Fr. Burtchaell 
The University Academic Council met in closed session yesterday to hear Fr. James Burtchaell, provost of the University, address the members. The subject of Burtchaell's report was not released, however, it is known that the Council will meet again on Dec.U. 
In May of 1974, after the Observer had stopped regular publication for the school year the administration announced a proposal for majo1· changes in the Academic Code to be voted on by the Council at a meeting held after the end of finals week. 
In November 1973 the Observer discovered that the new Academic calender was the be released two aays after it ceased publication for the semester. All Council meetings for the rest of the semester had been cancelled. 
The calender had initially been approved by the Council at a meeting held after the paper had ceased publication in December 1972. ~e subject oft~ December 11 meeting has not been released. 
! BRIDGE-VU THEATER PRESENTS : 

:• THE NEW :• i• KINGSTON TRIO!.•
• 

: BEGINNING THIS VvEEKEND : 
: BRIDGE-VU THEATER : i• U.S. 30 West, Valparaiso, Indiana i• 
46383

i (219) 462-0563 : 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••f 
SO WHAT PRODUCTS DO YOU GET FOR 99 CENTS? 
-

Males Get Females Get 
Shampoo-TEGRIN-$2.55 Shampoo -EARTHBORN -89¢ Comb -DU PONT -49¢ Mouthwash-LlSTERINE-79¢ Toothbrush -ORAL B -98¢ Toothbrush -ORAL B -98¢ Mouthwash-USTERINE-79¢ Pen -FLAIR -49¢ Aspirin -EXCEDRIN -39¢ Aspirin -EXCEDRIN -39¢ Shave Cream -FOAMY -50¢ Razor-LAOY TRAC II -$1.00 Razor-TRAC II -$1.00 Shave Cream -FOAMY -50¢ Shampoo -ALBERTO BALSAM -39¢ Plus -AQUA FRESH & WOOLITE Coupon -MULTI-SCRUB-$1.09 
Over three million students have purchased The 99 Cent Experiment. There are only enough available on each campus for one out ofsix students. Our product is called Superbox and we would really appreciate ifyou purchasedourproduct at: 
THE HAIVW\ES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

the observer Friday, December 6, 1974
4 
Co-education differs at ND-Yale 
by Gregg Bangs Staff Reporter 
It is well past midnight and a party that started at 9 pm Saturday is still going strong in Dillon Hall, one of the larger dormitories at the University of Notre Dame. Although the Indiana drinking age is legally twenty-()ne, there seems to be no lack of beer at this get­together.
However, at 2 am the party suddenly breaks up. There's plenty of beer left, plenty of food and guys--but every one of the twenty or so girls who were at this party has left. Why? Notre Dame students might not be hesitant to break the drinking statutes, but they think twice when contending with the University parietals rule that states any member of the opposite sex must be out of the men's or women's dorms by 2:00 am on weekends and midnight on weekdays. Thus, at 2 am everybody returns to their respective male or female dorms. 
James Brubaker is a sophomore at Yale University. Having come back from a late movie, he starts up the flight of stairs that leads to his third floor single in Morse College. On the way up, he meets a friend of his on the second floor. They talk for quite some time, and Brubaker returns to his room at 
2:30 am. The difference between Morse College and Notre Dame's Dillon Hall is that Brubaker's friend was female. She not only wasn't breaking parietals, she lives in Morse College--which is co-ed, like the twelve other un­dergraduate colleges at Yale. 
Both Yale University and the University of Notre Dame 
r 
r 
once undergraduate havens of higher education for males. However, since 1969 at Yale and 1972 at Notre Dame, women have been admitted to the freshmen classes at both schools. Although both schools claim that the co­education process has been a success, problems such as residence overcrowding, ad­mittance quotas and social pressures have all afflicted both 
programs.
Notre Dame and Yale similar 
Notre Dame and Yale are very similar in many respects. Yale's undergraduate numbers ap­proximately 5,500 people com­pared to Notre Dame's 6,600. Both draw students from all over the country, as well as from abroad. Both schools are located in medium sized cities that are very close to huge metropolitan centers. 
Since both schools have a lot in common, a study of their co­education efforts would seemingly bring forth similar results at first glance. However, not only do the two institutions have similarities, but the differences between the two schools stand out and make an interesting comoarison. 
Although the Yale graduate schools started admitting women in 1892, the undergraduate ranks remained closed to females. In 1962, a special faculty committee designed to study the freshman year made the first formal appealregarding theenrollment of women undergraduates to then Yale President Grisswold: The report stated: , 
"Ultimately, we believe, Yale should concern itself with the education of women at the un­the fall of 1973 and 1974, we ad­mitted 375 women in each class while admitting 1250 men. As for 
future years, even next year, I'm not sure yet." he continued. 
Goldrick said although the quota system is strictly adhered to, all candidates are looked at and 

women of the nation, we have a and administrative problems evaluated on an individual basis. huge supply of talent for which our connected with the proposed Yale found that ttie quota"systein educational institutions have in­unification." was not enhancing the chances of 
sufficiently provided, and which Although the continuanceof a six success for co-education. For one our country has imperfectly year exchange program was thing, the ratio of males to females 
Observer lnsir:~ht 
utilized. --­assured, Notre Dame concurrently was 7: 1. In many of the courses,
The report also recommended said it would admit its first women there were no women, or only one
that women be admitted as a undergraduates in the fall of 1972 or two. This led to the treatment ofsubstantial proportion of each as freshman and upper-division women as being "representative" class and the male numbers not be transfer students. 
and the inevitable asking of "thereduced. This report was endorsed Both Yale and Notre Dame had women's point of view." Only

by the Yale College faculty, thus originally planned to hold a quota thirty women lived in the
opening the doors for specific system regarding admission • residential colleges, and it was
proposals regaJ:ding coeducation. policies. "In the fall of 1969, we hard for the women to find com­
Various committees planned to admit 230 girls and 1,025 patible roommates or friends. The were set up to insure a smooth men for the class of 1973," Worth male-female relationship was move into this program and in the David, Dean of Admissions at Yale strained because of the odds in­1969-1970 academic year, women recalled. "For the classes of '74, volved. came to Yale. '75 and '76 we held to roughly the the Yale Co-r­
Merger called off same numbers." poration decided in 1972 that the Edmund A. Stephan, chairman next class admitted, the class of of the Notre Dame Board of Notre Dame also employed the '77, would be admitted on a no­Trustees, and Mother M. Olivette quota system. "Our first year of quota system. The CorporationWhalen C.S.C., chairman of the co-education was 1972. That fall, decided to do this to enhance the Saint Mary's College Board of 125 freshman women were ad­educational and social atmosphere Trustees announced in a joint mitted as compared to 1500 men", of the college. It also decided to 
statement that the two schools John Goldrick, Director of Ad­
(continued on page 5)

"were unable to solve financial missions at Notre Dame said. "In 

turn your books into christmas presents 
It's easy -when you finish with your books, you trade them in for cash I Then go out and blow it on your friends and family. 
Whether you end up one fat Santa or a little short depends on how many books 
you've got to sell, what condition they're in, and whether or not there's a 
need for them nationwide. 

Whatever you want to use the money for it wi II sure beat just letting them lie 
around collecting dust. So bring your books over to the professional book­
buyers a~ the bookstore now, while your book is worth the most it wi II ever be. 
Wait too long and the chances are you may end up playing Scrooge I 
seD them for cash at 


HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
university o .. notre dame 
THURS. & FRI.,_DEC. 12 &:13 • 9-4:30 SAT., DEC. 14 · 9-3:00 
Friday, December 6, 1974 the observer 
Policies 
(continued from page4) 
keep the same class size, which meant an obvious reduction in men. Therefore, Yale was actively trying to seek a 1 :Y4: 1 ratio of men to women. 
Dean David said 451 women were admitted for the class of 1977 and 464 for the class of 1978, so "the 
60:40 proportion we're striving for seems to have naturally fallen upon us, for all of the men and women were judged equally with no regard given to sex," David said. 
Although Notre Dame has not dropped its quota, it too hopes to establish a set proportion. The Committee on University Priorities report stated, "If Notre Dame's Female enrollment in­creases to about 1,500 by 1976, and the co-exchange with Saint Mary-s College continues, the combined population on both campuses will be close to 3,000, which ap­proximates the 3:5 national ratio of women to men in universities. 
"The report went on to state that any further increase in women's enrollment would be determined "in the light of several variables, among them residence capacity, the volume of applications, relative enrollment in specific colleges and the extent of cooperation with Saint Mary-s College," the report specified. 
According to this report, Notre Dame wishes to keep its un­dergraduate enrollment at 6,600 which would mean 5,100 males would be kept on in addition to the 1,500 Notre Dame females and 1,800 Saint Mary's College students. To do this, one could draw the conclusion that a quota system must remain intact. 

I· 
Co-ed dorm life at Yale 
Once women have gained en­trance into these respective universities, the next institution they come into contact with is their dormitories. Both schools have a large majority of their students living on campus. Thus, dormitory life, or colleges as they're called at Yale, are big at both schools. It is at this stage, that the main dif­ference in co-education at these schools is seen--Notre Dame's dormitories are restricted to males only and females only; Yale is co­
ed. Yale is composed of twelve co-ed colleges which have their own study lounges, libraries and dining halls. When a student enrolls at Yale, he (shel is assigned to a college but instead of living there his first year, he is assigned to live in that college's segment of the Old Campus, which is the freshman dormitory. All freshmen live there and eat in the also separate fresh­man cafeteria. In this way, at 
ltast  theoretically, ties  to  both  
one's  college  and  class  are  
est.ablished.  

Dontletthepriceofa college education stop 
you. 
The price of a college educa­tion is skyrocketing. The Air Force has done something about it. For the first time, the Air Force ROTC Scholar­ships include the 2-year program, for men and women. 
If you qualify, the Air Force will pay for the remainder of your college education. Not only do AFROTC 2-year scholarships cover full tuition, reimbursement for textbooks, lab and incidental fees, and $100 a month, tax-free. 
To cash in on all this apply 
qualify, and enroll in the Air 
Force ROTC at Bldg. No. 5 
call Capt. Shepard, 6634 
It's a great way to finish your 
college education in the money, 
and build a future as an Air 
Force officer. 
MAKE THE MOST OF IT 
differ at ND-Yale 
Although the colleges are cr -ed, there is some degrel: of segregation in that women live on one floor and men on another. 
"If we go co-ed, and I can't see it now, I would advocate a salt and pepper arrangement. If you're going co-ed, go all the way and have men and women on the same floor," Fr. John Mulcahy, director of housing at Notre Dame, said. Mulcahy said he'd often thought about instituting co-ed dorms at Notre Dame, but right now the "feeling isn't right and we're just not ready for it. We could try an ·experimental dormitory, but the amount of work put into it and all the grief caused by anxiety could not possibly be matched by the good coming out of it." he said. 
Overcrowded dorms 
One aspect of dorm life common to both schools is that they're both overcrowded. Mulcahey said junior year when they are forced off-campus. However, we guarentee them housing their senior year." she stated. 
Co-education evaluated 
The Study Group Report stated that Yale "is a happier, friendlier and more relaxed place than in recent years." 
Bart Cooke, a sophomore, 
thought that the co-ed dorms and 
constant day to day living with 
"members of the opposite sex 
broke down the social shields and 
made people be more honest with 
each other." Cooke said. 
Yale has had a class of glrlsgraduate who have gone through four years exclusively at Yale. Notre Dame has not had this happen yet. This is one reason why Fr. David Schlaver, director of Student Activities and rector of Dillon Hall, thinks the road to co­education at Notre Dame has been "rocky, but good." 
"If you're going co-ed' go all the way and have men and women on the same floor." 
"housing was very tight this year and I might be able to fit everybody in next semester." 
However, now the girls dorms are getting overcrowded, and with another class of women coming in shortly, a .decision of where to house them has to be made. Mulcahey forsaw only two options. "One would be to take another male dorm away _from male students and force more of them off-campus. That would make every other male student live off­campus, so I don't like that," he stated. 
The second idea is to put girls in a lottery system. "Although I don't like the idea of that, I might have to set one up for the girls,"Mulcahey said. 
A third option discounted as infeasable was the building of a new dorm. "Right now with in­flation, nobody can afford to or wants to dish out six or seven million dollars. A new dorm is just too expensive." he explained. 
"I personally think the lottery system is the best way. It doesn't kick a student out, it just tells him the probability of him getting a room. The ones who want to go off­campus will go and the ones who want a room generally get one. "Mulcahey said. "I like the lottery because its blind and clean." he continued. 
Although the situation is not quite as bad at Yale, some students are forced off-campus. "We guarantee housing to all students" Dean Hill commented. "If we are overcrowded, we hold a lottery. Most students go off-campus their 
"Instead of coddling each other, it's time we start working together and start treating the women like they're part of the whole Notre Dame experience, instead of like they're guests." Schlaver stated. 
Fr. · Schlaver explained, Notre Dame will search for innovative 
ideas,  but  they  will  take  on  a  
distinctive  Notre  Dame  flavor  
when  they  are  instituted here.  

Although both schools will surely make changes in their programs as the situation dictates, it is ob­vious that Notre Dame and Yale will be responsible for the ultimate attitude of the co-education program.
In the long run, it is students who are responsible for the attitude of a campus. Fr. Schlaver observed, it is not a building's obligation to makethings happen, it is the people who inhabit it who must pi.'ovide the impetus. 
JOE WI NTERSCHEl D 
ould,~y.ou buy a used car from this man? 

OBSERVER 
Features Staff Meeting ·Mon. Dec 9 7:30 

. BSERVEROffices 
Anyone interested in covering Soph Lit Festival is invited to a 

'"Against today's background 
of lurking fear I would .like 
to speak of hope. 

Rather than the scenario of global catastrophe in the days ahead, I should like to project a new world that is possible and even probable if we will dare to think new thoughts, to engage in programs worthy of our hopes, and to share our vision with itll who will , work with us to achieve it."-Theodore M. Res­burgh, C.S.C. 

The Bumaae lmpe:rative 
A Challenge for the Year 2000 Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Preface by Kingman Brewster, Jr. 
A distinguished citizen-priest offers an agenda of hope and maps out the areas in which belief and action might unite and bring about a better world. $5.95 
am

Yale University Press 
New Haven and London 

Ill! AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTOR 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS CHRISTMAS AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money, too. over the increased air fares. Share the ride·with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE­ ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU  
TO  WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
Chicago  5.50  10.45  9:25A.M.  11:20 A.M.  
Cleveland  14.85  28.25  8:55A.M.  4:15P.M.  
Pittsburgh  22.20  42.20  2:30P.M.  1:40 A.M.  
Detroit  11.55  21.95  10:35 A.M.  4:45P.M.  
Milwaukee  9.20  17.50  2:00 P.M.  6:15P.M.  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 
210 W. Monro~ St. 287-6541 


GO GREYHOUND 
...and leave the driving to us® 

the observer Friday, December 6, 1974
6 
~ 

.................................... 
~ t 
Budget proposal approve1 ~9'fY Holi' i 
by Gregg Bangs Professor Richard M. Lynch, changes that were made were only it it .,taff Reporter comptroller of the University, and minor modifications," Prof. it ~ with Fr. James T. Burtchaell, Danehy commented. ".lfanything, ~ it 

c.S.C., Provost. According to the these revisions made the report -tr: itThe Faculty Senate approved the report, these two offered "a clear more general," he continued. it it report turned in by its committee picture of the process by which Since the Facutly Seante made -tr: WE'LL SEE YQU ton a Budget Review Proposal and budgets are constructed." this study on its oWl'l, its recom-: itauthorized its circualtion to all 
Included amohng this ex-mendations for a budget review it !
faculty members and ad­
committee must be reviewed and it ~ 
ministration officials. planation was a chart which approved by Hesburgh. Danehy is -tr: it 
The report is the culmination of a illustrated the responsibility for optimistic. "I really think he will ! ! three month study on the budget the areas of the University that set up this committee. What kind ~ y ~ making process at the University. have distinct budgetary of budget review is up to him-but ~ NEXT EAR ! This past September, Faculty requirements. with all the work this committee -tr: • • • • Senate Chairman Professor James 
The structure of this chart is has done, I hope he would set up a it ~ Cushing asked that the Faculty 
divided into two areas. Hesburgh committee that would take into it ~ Senate organize a Committee to presides over the budgetary account the different factions on ~ t 
study a proposal recommended in proceedings. The two sectors cam_!!us," he concluded. : _'IUII'CH(GAN s-rREET ~ 
the Committee on University 
under him are in the areas of TRAVELRESERVATIONS it .LY.U, 1,1 ~ Priorities <COUP) report. 
academic and non-academic -tr: ~ Thatproposal recommended, the 
requirements. Burtchaell is in ~ . AD:rnT IIJWlJ'I:I K IJ"D~ -tcformation of "A Budget Review 
charge of academic, while Fr. ~ ! 'U.L. .IDLn..l.n.J:&J :Committee, representative of the 
Edmund Joyce, exectutive vice ~ whole University, to reflect upon president is in control of non-~ t
the assignment of resources and to 
academic areas. . ~ X 2 f1LIVJS -tr:evaluate critically the reasoning 
underlying such allocations." The Committee report then GRUENINGER TRAVEL it ~ The Faculty Senate set up the 
proceeded to outline the structure 291·4810 ~ X 8()~ ~ 
and functions fo the committee. ~ ~.1.~ tcommittee and asked Professor 
First, they named the report the Mon·Frl 10 • 9 Sat. 10·6 it ~James Danehy to act as chairman. 
Danehy selected Professors Paul Budget Priorities Committee. Sun. 12. 5:30 it X LIVE FLc:x::ll SHOW ~ 
F. Conway, Waldemar Goulet and "The choice of title (BPC)," the it ~ Irwin Press as members of the report states, "reflects our belief U p p E R L E V E L ~ ~ committee. that this committee's primary role -tr: 1316 SaJT'H MICHIGAN STREET ~ 
"Over the summer the four of us is the provision of input regarding s co T T so A L E t CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION~
worked on a committee that priorities at the beginning of the '?' ~ studied salary increases amojng 
college faculties, so when Prof. the fact." The report added this M A L L Cushing asked me to chair this view agrees with the purpose of the committee, I had no problem recommendation in the COUP 
process rather than review after t**********************************~~ 
report.
finding people to work with," he exnlained. The report then went on to 
In its introduction, the Com­outline the composition of the mittee stated in a report that it saw Budget Priorities Committee. The its task as three fold. Their first BPC would consist of the executive objective was to "determine the budget committee (EBC) and the way in which University budgets president of the University, six 
are establsihed at present. members of the faculty, one 
The second purpose of the member of the University staff and committee was "to consider what one student. should be the structre and the 
The report then stated thefunction of a University Budget function of the committee Included Review Committee." "The third among these functions are thegoal was to determine "how writing of several reports to therepresentation of the faculty on EBC and the writing of an annualsuch a committee might be im­report to the Notre ·Dame com­plemented." 
munity.
The Committee's report then explained how the University When presented to the Faculty budget is determined and run. To Senate meeting last Tuesday night, gather research on this subject, the report was discussed at length 
the Committee members talked to and a iew changes made. "The 
CHICAGO'S SPORTS SPECTACULAR WORTH THE TRIP 
See Over 7,000 Save Big Money
*Pairs of Skis * On Big Brand Name Ski Equipment 
*See Over 6,000 

Pairs of Boots • Head-Fischer-Yamaha WE TAKE • Lange-Rossignoi-Hart
ic See 6 Giant Floors

TRADES 
• K2·Kneissi-Look/Nevada
of Sports Equipment 

• See 14 Great Sports Ski Clubs & GroupsDepartments AHention
* 

Call us now and we will
SAME DAY 

give you $100.00 towards
SKI BINDING INSTALLATION bus transportation. 
--~---------------,;_____________... 
'.
I· 
---~ 

-----------~----~--------------------------~ 
7

Friday, December 6, 1974 the observer 

House Cornrnittee poll indicates Rocky's V-P approval probable 
. By CHERYL ARVIDSON 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The House Judiciary Committee completed hearings on Nelson 
A. Rockefeller's vice presiden­tial nomination Thursday and an informal poll indicated it would approve him next week by a substantial -but not unanimous -margin. 
.The poll indicated perhaps as many as 10 Democrats on the 38-member committee would vote against Rockefeller when his nomination is put to a vote, expected to take place late next week, possibly Thursday. 
The Senate Judiciary Com­mittee unanimously confirmed Rockefeller's nomination after televised hearings that focused -like the House hearings ---{)n Rockefeller's financial dealings. 
The nomination must be approved by majority vote of both houses once it clears committee. A full Senate vote 
Macheca claimsficticious identification given by woman in Notre Dame rape 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 
Yesterday Dean of Students John Macheca said a woman identifying herself as a Notre Dame student sought treatment for rape at Memorial Hospital in South Bend Wednesday night,November 27. 
The incident allegedly occurred at ll:OOp.m. when the woman was approached by a man wearing a parka while parking her friend's car. 
The woman said she parked the car in the street across from Stepan Center, and while walking across the parking lot, someone attacked and raped her, according to the South :::lend Police record. She then went directly to her room where, after a considerable span of time, her roommate convinced her to go to the hospital. The hospital treated her and she was released early Thanksgiving morning. 

• -{~r,ay. • 
BSERVER CHRISTMAS PARTY!!! Saturday, Dec. 7 8 til ??? 
Heidleberg Inn , Niles, Mich • •• 
•
•

All staff members invited. 
• 

Bring a friend 
•
•
•
•
• 

BOOGIE THE NIGHT •• • AWAY!!! -· • •• 
.•

The van will leave ·the· circle at 7:30 and 8:30. 
• ~~rray~ • ~"::rrayb #I -*"::r"~ e -f~~ 
was scheduled for Tuesday. 
Rockefeller's final appear­ance before the House commit­tee Thursday featured more sharp exchanges on the proprie­ty of gifts and loans the former New York governor and his family gave associates and politicians, including Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger. 
Rep. Joshua Eilberg, D-Pa., noted Kissinger and his bride Nancy had used a Rockefeller jet plane to fly to their honeymoon in Acapulco. He estimated the cost at around $28,000, but a Rockefeller aide later described that as "a wild figure" and estimated the cost at $10,000 or less. 
Eilberg asked Rockefeller to inform the committee what other government officials have used the plane.
Rep. Robert Drinan, D-Mass., said a $30,000 loan -given former Republic~n National Chairman William Miller by 
Macheca said all information the really the number of a St. Mary's woman gave as identification was office. found to be fictitious. The Police An investigation is in progress to record listed her name as Melissa determine what actually happened 
Moore, her address was given as and whether the woman actually is 418 Badin Hall (which is a broom a Notre Dame student, stated 
closet) and her phone number was Macheca. 
Rockefeller's brother, Lauran­ce, in 1961 -"raises a question certainly of ethics if not of law." 
Rockefeller said there was "nothing unusual, wrong or immoral" about it and denied there had been any attempt to "cover up" the transaction." 
He said his brother had made the loan, at his recommenda­tion, because Laurance was in the "venture capital" business and intended it to be an investment with a substantial return. He also said the loan was to provide a nest~gg for Miller so that he could remain in public service -he became the Republican vice presiden­tial candidate in 1964 -instead of returning to law practice. 
Rockefeller also testified Thursday that "the records 
have been searched" and none of his other brothers or sisters
"have made a gift or loan to any public official." 
a....ta& -~ a.~ ~.fu,py-a.~ ~'f:I.,PY"
~-"1~f"-~ ~-.9/olidq~ ~-'flolid~h 
•• CHUCK BERRY SEZ: 
•• Take your sweet little
•
•

• rock'n' roller to the promised
•
•
•
• 

land on Saturday night•
•
•

• You never can tell• 
AFTER .THE GANE. VISIT 
INDIANA'S LARGEST RESTAlRANT LIVE ENTERTAINMENt TI-E TUES,VVEiD,FRI,SAT SUN 
WOODEN KEG 
1609 South Main 289-4824 
SUNDAY MASSES 
(MAIN CHURCH) 
5:15 ..p.m. Sat. FR. ROBERT GRIFFIN CSC 9:30a.m. Sun. FR. DICK CONYERS CSC 
10:45 a.m. Sun. FR. STEPHEN MALKIEWICZ O.F.M. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. FR. BILL TOOHEY CSC , 
~--=:=:;::===::=================~
The Century presents... 
THE MESSIAH SING-IN 

On 
Fricbt -Decerrber 20, 1974 -8:00 p.m.1n The IVorris Ovic Auditorium South Bend, Indiana 
TO SING OR JUST COVE TO LISTEN 
Join a 2300 audience in singing Handel's oratlo that has 
become a holiday tradition. The Messiah Sing-In wlll be 
conducted from the stage with an organist, soloists, and other 
instrumentalists. 

Bring your own score or buy one at the door ($2.00). All 
tickets are $1.00 and unreserved. Tickets may be purchased 
at the door or in advance by mailing a check and a self· 
addressed stamped emveiope to: 
Canury Center 
P. Q Box 837 South Bend, Indiana 

8 
the observer Friday, December 6, 1974 
Plane crash report 
'Pilot error' charge angers pilot association 

in when the plane crashed just · where I was and that he knew between pilots and controllers engineer showed that justWASHINGTON (UPI) -An­
23 miles west of Washington's those mountains out there." over the years, O'Donnell said. before the crash someone in thegered by National Transporta­
tion Safety Board comments on Dulles International Airport O'Donnell said radar controll­A traffic controller had cockpit asked whether the craft 
an air Sunday and about five miles north of ers were bringing the big cleared the jetliner to make its should be going below the 3,400
disaster that 
Upperville, Va. jetliner in to Washington's landing approach minutes foot level.
killed 92 persons, the Air Line Rescue teams found the fog­Dulles International Airport on before the crash, the safety The plane -nearing the endPilots Association asked Presi­
shrouded crash site littered an unusual route and that the board report said, and the of a flight from Indianapolis,dent Ford Thursday to dismiss with burning debris, shattered pilot may not have known plane immediately began de­Ind., and Columbus, Ohio -wasboard Chairman John Reed "in 
the public interest." trees and the broken bodies of exactly where he was, relying scending to the airport ap­trying to land on Runway 12 at all 85 passengers and 7 on the controller to tell him proach altitude. Dulles after being diverted
The Board preliminary re­
crewmembers aboard the when to start his approach. Investigators offered no ex­from Washington National Air­port said TWA's flight 514 
plane. Orders put out by the Federal planation why the pilot started port because of bad weather.
descended to 1,800 feet · in an I for an"If was cleared Aviation Administration since his descent on the west side of There was no mention in theapproa.ched. The minimum safe approach into Dulles, I would the crash, which said permis­the mountain range instead of board's report of the high windsaltitude, indicated on charts 
have descended to 1,800 feet (at sion to begin an approach does waiting until he was safely on and driving rain through whichaboard the plane, was 3,400 the point where the TWA pilot not mean a pilot can disregard the east side. the jetliner was flying, butfeet. 
did)," O'Donnell said in a news his charts information about Sources close to the investiga­sources close to the investiga­Although the report did not conference. safe minimum altitudes, con­tion said a recording of the last tion said the year's first bigsay so specifically, it indicated "I would have assumed that flict with practices that have half hour of conversation winter storm apparently playedthat pilot error lay behind the the radar controller knew been established in dealings between the pilot, copilot and only a secondary role.
crash. The Boeing 727 jetliner flew straight into the side of Paris 
9. HANDEL'S MESSIAH-
Mountain just below its top and 
The Complete oratorio features the 37. BEETHOVEN COMPLETE NINE London Philharmonic Orchestra and
a mile and a half from a secret 
SYMPHONIES-William SteinbergChoir under the direction of Sir Adrian 
government base designed to 
conducting the Pittsburgh Symphony
Boult-3 record set-
shelter government officials in 
Orchestra-8 record set-
NOW ONLY $6.98
event of a nuclear attack. 
NOW ONLY $14.98 

Angered by the board com­ments, the Air Line Pilots 
11. TCHAIKOVSKY-HJS FINEST 25. GREGORIAN CHANTS--A new
Association demanded in a 
MUSIC -"Limited Edition" of the ~tereo recording of the immortal and 
master's piano music includes Concerto most revered of medieval church music 
letter to President Ford 
No. 1 in B Flat, Concerto No. 2 in G, performed by French Monks as it was many hundreds of years ag<>--3 record
Thursday that board Chairman 
Concerto No. 3 in E Flat, Concert "'t-NOW ONLY $6.98
John Reed be removed "in the 
Fantasy. Features brilliant piano vir­tuosity of Michael Ponti-3 record
public interest." 
The pilots' organization said 
26. ANTHOLOGY OF FOLK MUSIC set-NOW ONLY $6.98
it was "shocked and saddened" 
VOLUME 2-0utstanding f~vorites 
and that Reed had violated his 
not seen before in any othet set. In­
12. WORLD'S GREATEST
agency's own rules by com­
cludes works by: Memphis Slim, Sonny 
CELLISTS-featuring Pablo Casals
menting on circumstances sur­
and Terry, Pete Seeger, John Lee 
playing Beethoven An:hduke Trio and 
rounding the crash before the 
Hooker, Lightnin' Hopkins, Clancy 
works by Pierre Fournier and Janos 
Brothers, Odella, Josh White and many Starker-3 record set-
completion of an accident 
others-4 record set-NOW ONLY $6.98
report. 
NOW ONLY $8.98

ALPA President J.J. O'Don­
nell also said the pilot of the jetliner was following estab­lished practice when he de­scended to 1,800 feet beca~e an air traffic controller had just told him the TWA flight was cleared for its landing ap­proach. 
He said the crew of the big jet may have been relying on traffic controllers to bring them 
2. ANTHOLOGY OF FOLK MUSIC 3. THE BEST OF THE BLUES-­
-including more than 50 pieces by • A superb collection featuring the re· Pete Seeger; Woody Guthrie, Rod Mc· Kuen, Leadbelly, John Lee Hooker, 
musl
l~ ~::;~i~r;~~~~~;n~~:::.r :;i:ar~~~~
Lightnin' Hopkins and others--5 re· Broonsy, Big Joe Williams and others cord set-NOW ONLY $9.98 
-3 record set-NOW ONLY $6.98 

is Chllstmqs 
Quality LP's and boxed set~··· up to 80~ off 
13. MOZART'S MOST FAMOUS 17. BACH'S BRANDENBURG CON­21. BAROQUE HORN AND TRUM­27. BEST OF HAYDN 
PIANO MUSIC-Elvira Madigan by CERTOS--1-6, plus the well known PET AT THEIR F1NEST-Featuring Including No. 94 in Walter Klien; Concerto in A Major, triple Concerto in A Minor, Harp· the renowned Maurice Andre & Adolf G Major "Surprise", No. 101, "The Christoph Eschenbach; Paul Badura· sir'hord Concerto No. 1 in D Minor Scherbaum playing works by Carelli, Clock,, No. 104, "London", and many Skoda, D Minor Concerto; Alfred Bren· featuring Bach Collegium and the Wur. Purcell, Handel, Vivaldi, Haydn, Mo­other favorites by Leopold Ludwig, del, Mozart's B Flat Concerto; others ttenherg Chamber Orchestra-3 re-zart, Albinoni, Telemann, J. S. Bach Jascha Horenstein and the Vienna Sym· by Ingrid Haebler and Peter Frankl cord set-NOW ONLY $6.98 and Torelli-5 record set-phony, Alfred Brendel and the Fine -3 record set-NOW ONLY 56.98 NOW ONLY $9.98 Arts Quartet-4 record set­
18. GUSTAV MAHLER-Symphony 
NOW ONLY $8.98 of a Thousand (Symphony No. 8),
14. THE VERY BEST OF DVORAK Dimitri Mitropoulos conducting the 22. BEETHOVEN'S NINTH AND 
28. BEETHOVEN CONCERTI-His Vienna Festival Orchestra. Symphony FIFTH SYMPHONIES-COMPLETE .. 
-Includes his New World Symphony 
most famous works including Nos. 3, No.2 "Resurrection", Otto Klempercr An award winning set featuiing Josef 4 and 5 featuring Alfred Brendel, 
No. 9, Leopold Ludwig conducting 
the London Symphony Orchestra plus conductipg the Vienna Symphony Or· Krips conducting the Vienna Festival pianist-3 record set-the famous Cello Concerto and his chestra-3 record set-Orchestra-2 record set-
equally well regarded String Quartet NOW ONLY $6.98 
NOW ONLY S6.98 

NOW ONLY S4.98 Danceo-4 record set-29. MOZART COMPLETE WIND in F plus his piano music and Slavonic 
Send free 17" x 22" poster 
NOW ONLY $8.98 19. SONS OF BACH-Works of Carl CONCERTI-Including Clarinet Con· 
Phillip Emmanuel Bach, Concerto in 23. BEETHOVEN'S PIANO SONA­certo, Bassoon Concerto, Flute Con­D Minor for Flute, J.P. Rampal, so­TAS--Alfred Brendel, pianist. A su· certi, Concerto for Flute and Harp, 
shown above 
15. AMERICANA -This collection
Please send information 
loist, Orchestra conducted by Pierre perb new stereo set featuring the fa· Horn Concerti and Sinfonia Concer­includes Grafe's Grand Canyon Suite, 
Boulez. Wilhelm F. Bach, Sinfonia for mous Pathetique, Tempest, Moonlight, tante-4 record set­Gershwin's American in Paris, Mac·
about Glenmary Home 
Two Flutes, Johann C. Bach, Sinfonia W aldstein, Appassionata, Les Adieux NOW ONLY $8.98
Missioners 
Dowell's Piano Concerto No. 2, Be;,. 
for double orchestra, Bassoon Con· Sonatas-3 record set­stein's Candide Overture, Ive's 4th of 
certo in E and many more--3 record NOW ONLY $6.98 30. MUSIC OF THE GUITAR, LUTE July and Washington's Birthday Suites, 
set-NOW ONLY $6.98 AND MANDOLIN-Including works

GLENMARY, Room #17 
Gould's American Salute and other by Vivaldi, Torelli, Giuliani, Boccbe­famous pieces-3 record set-
x 46404, Cincinnati, 20. RAVEL-DEBUSSY-Outstand­24. THE BEST OF THE BLUES . rini, Haydn, Weber, Beethoven, Schu­
NOW ONLY $6.98 
ing collection of these great composers' VOLUME 2-An unusually attractive bert, Hummel and Carulli-4 record
hio 45242 
works includes Nocturnes, Claire de collection of blues greats including set-NOW ONLY $8.98 
16. THE CLASSICAL BALLET-In Lune, LaMer, Mother Goose Suite, Bessie Smith, John Hammond, Rev.
Name_____________________ 
eluding the beloved Nutcracker Suite, Iberia, Arabesque, La Valse, Bolero Gary Davis, Junior Wells, Jimmy Cot· 31. BACH COMPLETE CONCERTI Swan Lake, Delibes-Coppelia, and Syl· and many other beloved pieces. So· ton, Otis Rush, Louis Armstrong, King -Johann Sebastian Bach's concerti Address___________________ via Suites, Giselle and Chopin's Les Joists include Peter Frankl, Abbey Oliver, Otis Spann, Billie Holliday except Brandenburgs. An exceptional Sylphides--3 record set-Simon, Walter Klien-5 record set-and many others-3 record set-collection of the master's works--5 
Cily·______Zip___ NOW ONLY $6.98 NOW ONLY $9.98 NOW ONLY $6.98 record set-NOW ONLY ~.98 


Age___________ 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Phone,__________ 
---~-----------~~------~-­
Friday, December 6, 1974 the observer 
Also oppose lottery 
ND women against acquiring sixth dorm 

by Paul Young 
Staff Reporter 
A survey of women from Farley, Breen-Phillips, Lyons and Walsh halls revealed the majority oppose the proposal to acquire a sixth women's dorm from existing male dorms to accommodate next year's planned increase in female enrollment. They preferred by a slight margin the inclusion of women in an off-campus lottery by a slight margin. 
The survey of 17 randomly sleeted women asked the following three questions and obtained the following results: 
I. How do you feel about the possibility of converting another male dorm into a female dorm next year as a solution to the housing problem? Five women favored the action while twelve opposed it. 
II. Would you prefer women to be put in a lottery along with men with the possibility of going off­campus as an alternate solution? Nine favor it, eight were opposed. 
Ill. Do you feel that the housing situation ·will cause women to voluntarily move off campus whether or not they are included in the lottery? .t.~ The majority responded "y '• but with the important qualifier typified in a Lyons residents comment that "a few girls would think about it 
SMC Board of Regents to considerpres. hopefuls 
The search for a new president remains in full swing at Saint Mary's College, with three more candidates to be interviewed next weekend. 
Newest additions to the list of candidates for future SMC president are Dr. Boyd Litzinger of St. Bonaventure University, Dr. Robert Giroux of Clark College(lowa), and Dr. John Duggan of Vassar College. 
Student Academic Affairs Commissioner Tess Lehman noted that these interviews will take place December 12-14, and that the candidates will appear before "faculty, students, administrators, and Board of Regent members." She emphasized that there is no particular hurry in finding a new 
president, a least not until next September. 
Dr. Eugene Campanale, Chairman of the Education Dept. and a member of the Search Committee, emphasized that, "These are not the final can­didates." Future interviews are still possible, and as yet no trim­ming of candidates has been done. 
Dr. Glen Olsen, a member of the SMC Board of Regents and chairman of the Search Com­mittee, is out of town and unavailable for comment. 

Nation's coal miners ratify nevv contract 
The nation's soft coal miners Government and private in-ratified a new contract to end dustry economists estimated the national coal strike, it was the country will have lost $6 announced Thursday. The gov-billion in production by the ernment was expected ready to time coal production resumes announce the highest unemploy-Monday. Several thousand non­ment in the United States in 13 striking steel and railroad years. workers were idled by the 
The United Mine Workers strike. Union. announced of~icially in Meanwhile, the Labor Depart­Washmgton tha~ . umon mem-ment said the number of bers had ratified a. new persons seeking unemployment contract proposal,. clearmg the benefits swelled by 215,000 in way to. end the strike of 120,000 mid-November, and the govern­coal mmer~. ment Friday was expected to 
. Resumption of coal produc-release November unemploy­bon, 70 pe: cent halted by ~e ment figures expected to be the wal~out, will end an expensiVe highest since 1961. 
dram on the economy. 
sooner but this represents only a small percentage which probably won't make any difference to the housing problem." 
Several objections voiced by women against the acquisition of a male dorm include some specific referrals to Fr. Mulcay's proposal of a Flanner or Grace tower switch with Farley. The belief that Mulcahy's proposal was merely a plan for shuttling students around without really settling the problem predominated among these ad­vocates. Laura Campbell of Lyons, disagreeing with the "uprooting of students"invovled in the Flanner and Grace option, stated "coeducation is a rough thing at this school and this would just make it rougher." 
'lbose in favor of taking a male 
dorm in almost all cases chose its 
option as a reluctant, but 
necessary, alternative to forcing 
women off campus. 'Ibis feeling 

Th~fTrial 
BillY Jack 
Starring 
DELORES TAYLOR 
and 
TOM LAUGHLIN jP-uj 

EVERY EVE. AT 8:00. 
was put into words by Janet Robert of Lyons who stated, "I think kick­ing girls offcampusshould be the last alternative to be considered." 
Many answering affirmatively to the inclusion of the women in an off campus lottery cited equal treatment with men as the reason. As one Grace resident expressed "to preserve the relations between men and women on campus it would be much better to have women included in a lottery. IT women are not included it could just make ill feelings worse." 

Women opposing their inclusion in a lottery offered lack of security and transportation problems related ot it as a major drawbacks to off campus living. Regarding security, Janet Robert explained that "the only real places safe for women to live off campus are 
Campus View and Notre D •m·e apartments." She emphasized "This limits residentiai possibilities as women can't really choose houses, since they are less secure and often exist in bad neighborhoods." Also the potential danger invovled 'where women lacking transportation might have to walk to campus from considerable distances at inopportune hours, motivated many against a lottery including 
women. There exists, according to Patty 
Lane of Lyons. the possibility "that the idea of moving people off campus is becoming more at­tractive to Notre Dame students." This she emphasized may even­tually succeed in changi.rlg the 
(continued on page 20) 

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ORGANIZATION WILL BE VOTED ON TODAY 
FRIDAY, December 6, 
in the Library Auditorium Starting at 7:30 P M during our Christmas reception 
The proposed constitution is posted outside the ISO office in basement of La Fortune 
22picas

THE OBSERVER 
Fred Graver Editorial Editor 
Bob Zogas Business Manager 
AN IN.DE~NDENT STUOFNT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 213-1661 NEWS: 213-1715 BUSINESS: 213-7471 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief 
Marlene Zloza Managing Editor 
..... McMimus
Terrv l(~ney 
Advertising Manager News Editor 
Friday, December 6, 1914 
For Your Information 
The housing problem has returned. 
That's all there is to it. 
The possibility of Flanner or Grace becoming a women's dorm is just that. The possibility of Farley being returned to the status of a male dormitory is just that. .. Any other possibility that has been mentioned is just a possibility. There is only one thing that we know for sure: there will be close to fifteen­hundred women on campus next year, and few more than eleven-hundred beds. 
To speculate here would be opening a three-year old wound. The situation as it stands now is leading to an interminable period of inept proposals, and inept counter-proposals, inept politics and counter-politics. 
The return of the housing problem is 
accompanied by the prevailing tower of Babel that has been its companion since the beginning of co-education. It's futile, 
and everyone in valved knows it. 
Why is it so difficult for everyone, from the administrators under the dome to the students in the halls, to put their heads together and come up with a workable solution? 
In the spirit of the season, we turn to honor those closest to our hearts: 
Gerald R. Ford--A football helmet. As Lyndon Johnson once said, "He's played too many games without one." 
Father T. Hesburgh--Unconditional amnesty, providing the SLC does not veto the decision. 
Father Burtchaell-A guest appearance on "Dinah's Place," where he will be able to display his talent for culinary ex­cellence and caustic wit before millions. 
Brother Just Paczesny--A new last name. A seletioft of simple Christian names have been selected, with an eye towards avoiding both misspellings and having people remember only the first name. 
John Macheca--An Honorary Mem­bership in the Women's Christian Temperance Union, where he can exercise his option to "challenge one another to find more creative ways of socializing." 
Sister John Miriam--Three-hundred and seventy-five more women and some off-campus rooms. 
Dr. Faccenda--A supreme Court pornography case, to catapult him into fame. We have arranged for him to defend a film entitled "High Noon on the South Quad," on the basis of its value as a document depicting a society torn by its shifting sexual mores. 
Father Tallarida--A set of Lego l~uilding Blocks, so he can immediately begin to construct new off-campus housing. 
Father Toohey--A head of lettuce and a bottle of Ripple. 
Arthur Pears--A collection of fifty­seven parking tickets,· issued to the Observer van during the last three months. 
Don Bouffard-A lifetime ticket for the 
We need information. Students should be given, at the very least, a list of the options that are now open. The period of time over break is crucial, and students should be prepared to consider, discuss and be ready to act on whatever comes up in January. 
As it is, student input has been ignored. One wonders just who is talking to whom on this problem. It appears that someone, or perhaps an entire group of people, are dragging their feet in a matter that demands immediate action. 
Would it be asking too much from the administration that a list of ·options and variations be compiled and presented to the students? Would such an action cause so much disruption that thetalks would be placed beyond completion? 
In the meantime, students should try to avoid the panic that accompanies the housing rumors. By remaining rational, we can offer ourselves a position which may yield an opportunity for input. 
Above all, let's get the facts out, and a void the nonsense that surrounds the housing problem at present. 
The Editorial Board 
South Bend Bisons, with a seat that moves further away from the action every year. 
Ara Parseghian--A lifetime mem­bership in the "Art Best Fan Club." Digger Phelps-..A film version of "A Coaches'World," starring Monte Hall. 
Professor Thomas Werge--One large chicken, baked, broiled, fried or live, according to his preference. 
Mr. Edmund Price-A bowl of rice and a cup of tea. 
Father Griffin and Darby--An in­ternational franchise chain of "Darby's Donuts." 
Pat McLaughhn-A burning issueft so he can go to the Administration and "stick 'em with the facts," and a plaque commemorating his reaction to the Angela Davis bomb threat which reads : "If the threat is not for real, there's no use getting everybody upset about it. If it is for real, we don't want to scare people away." 
Frank Flanigan-A copy of Bennet Cerf's "Forty Jokes to Make While Being Chairman ofthe Most Boring Meetings." 
Bill McLean--A publishing contract for his memoirs, to be entitled: "OM: Three Years of Chanting the Power Mantras Under the Golden Dome." 
Augie Grace--The management of Kubiak's, the Alumni-Senior Club, or some similar place in which he can hold an eternal "happy hour." 
Tom Drape--Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein for one week. The SLC--A copy of "The Joy of Sex" for every member. 
The Entire University~-A semester that's a lot more exciting than this one has been. 
To All Those We've Neglected--Fear. We're bound to get to you sooner or later. The Editorial Board 
Christmas Memory 
---iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii__. fred graver 
The old woman peered from behind the curtains at the car coming up the drive. The crushing of the gravel and the barking of the dogs were the onlysoundscarried in the wind. 
As the boy got out of the car, he squinted towards the house. The bright sun reflected against the snow. He walked around the back, and pulled a floral arrangement from the trunk. 
It was one of the cheaper arrangements, actually the cheapest one that could be bought and still sent over the wire. The card read, "To Grandma. Merry Christmas. Chuck and Linda." 
The house sat in a large field, small and white and frail. From the outside, there appeared to be only a few rooms within. Against its surroundings, it looked like a sock that someone had forgotten to pick up from the floor. 
The barking became louder as he walked towards the house. His face was beginning to crack, from the exposure to the wind. He had been delivering flowers all day now, timing the deliveries as he went along, more out of boredom than efficiency. But this one had really screwed him up. It was a forty minute drive out of the city, beyond the suburbs, infarmlandthat had been forgotten by all ex­cept for perhaps an ambitious realtor. 
He pulled back a wooden door, divided in two sections. The top section had a brokenpieceof glass in it, the bottom was empty. The wood, a few feet from the ground, had been chewed away. Probably, he thought, by the dogs. Looking for a doorbell, he found none. He knocked, loud enough to be heard but, he hoped, not loud enough to really disturb anyone. 
A series of locks and chains were undone. The door openedslowly. 
The old woman's eyes began to tear, from the glaring light coming from the outside. She asked the boy who he was, but couldn't hear because of the dogs and the wind. She invited him in. 
The house was quite warm He smelt something baking in the kitchen, and remembered that he hadn't eaten all day. He told the woman once again .about Chuck and Linda, leaving out what he knew of the expense of wire delivery. 
She looked at the flowers while the boy looked at the Christmas tree in the corner of the room. He had begun to consider himself an expert on the subject, having seen at least three dozen since beginning to deliver. He rated this one "last legs." 
"Pardon me," she said. "I know this sounds a little silly, but could you help me with something?" "Sure," he said rather absent-mindedly. He was occupied with how long it was going to take him to drive home from this place. 
"I've almost got this tree finished, but I just can't quite get the star on the top. You see, I'm a little short, and the step ladder just isn't high enough, and I'm a little afraid to get up there anyway, 'cause I had a nasty fall last spring and hurt my ankle. Could you help me put the star on the tree?" 
She went to the back of the house, and was gone for longer than he thought she should have been, since she was just getting that star. When she finally returned, she had the star on a tray, with a sand­wich, a can of coke, and a cigar. 
She handed him the star, and pointed to the ladder. "Now, just,a minute, before you get up there," she said, crossing the room and heading for an old Victrola. 
The boy carried the ladder over to the tree. Climbing up, he discovered that his jacket was too confining for him to reach where the star had to be placed. He took it off, shifting the star from hand to hand, and balancing himself on the shaky ladder. 
"Now you be careful up there," she said, placing and old record 
on the player. The boy reached up to put the star on the tree. "No, wait just a minute," she said, starting the record player. "Oh, come all ye faithful," she began to sing with the choir. Sensing the moment, he planted the star on the tree. She clapped 
her hands, smiled and sang. He, too, began to sing, though he didn't know the words quite as well as she did. 
They talked while he ate the sandwich, a piece of salami on stale rye. The cigar, she told him, was one of her husband's collection of Havanas. 
"But he's dead now, and doesn't smoke much." 
He began to smile at that, but held himself back. She watched 
him, and also began to smile. "They won't let you smoke up there, I guess," she joked. As he left, she tried to give him a dollar. "Oh, no, I couldn't," he 
said, a moment later reaching for the bill. She touched his hand. "A merry christmas to you," she sang, raising a smiling face to his. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Bill Brink Color Editor: AI Rutherford Asst. Night Editor: Mary Janca, Val Zurblls Layout: Martha Fanning, Gregg Bangs, Maggie Waltman, Ken Girouard, Dan Sanchez, Terry Keeney, Bob Brink, Katie Kerwin, Karen Hoare Copy Editor: Pat Hanifin, Ken Gradford, Ken Girouard, Jeanne Murphy Day Editor: Val Zurblls, Mary Egan Editorials: Dan Sanchez, Fred Graver Features: J. R. Baker, Marlene Zloza Sports: Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor, Bill Delaney Typists: Don Roos, Janet Carney, Anne Peeler, Michelle Arrleh, Tom Whelan, Tom Modglin, Dennis McNellis, Barb Haug Compugraphic Operator: Bob Steinmetz Picture Screener: Albert D'Antonio Night Controllers: M. J. Foley, Howard Halle Ad Layout: Bob Tracy, Tom Whelan, Bob McManus Missing in Action: Joe Lantz May you have peace and happiness this Christmas season and throughout the New Year The Issue Staff 
Christmas Grab Bag 

Once upon a time in my priesthood, ,I met a charming little boy named Cronin on the streets of Boston. There are many char­ming children on the Boston streets; bu~ I · was particularly delighted by Cronin, because on the first day I spoke to him, he shinnied up a handy, nearby, lamp post so that his head and shoulders could be at the same six foot level as my head and shoulders. We were no longer a child and an adult, with him staring up and me staring down. We were a priest and a street urchin of equal height, carrying on an eyeball to eyeball encounter, all because young Cronin had bothered to climb up that lamp post on Mount Auburn Street. 
Charmer though he was with his lamp post antics, Cronin was the street scourge of the neighborhood where he lived. The Irish housekeeper at the rectory where I was staying nearly fainted when I first men­tioned Cronin's name. The priests of the parish cleared their throats nervously when I spoke of Cronin at supper. The Sisters at the parochial school shook their heads worriedly, as though I were describing heretics, when I asked if Cronin were one of their children. Mothers at the P.T.A., in answering my questions about Cronin, would only say: "He's a wild one, Father." Eventually, I learned the story on Cronin. He was the semi-fatherless child of a dovorced, working mother; he was prin­cipally cared for by a grandmother with a drinkihg problem. At the age ot five he had sawed the porch off a man's house; the man who owned the porch had barely escaped serious injury when the porch collapsed when he walked on it. At the age of six, Cronin had set off the fire alarm in the parish church; the alarm had triggered the mechanism of a hidden camera, taking Cronin's picture. The imp had to appear, as at a court martial, before the pastor, dressed in his full regimentals as a mon­signor, and explain his mischief. He was spoken of darkly as a child whom no one could handle; after a while, it seemed, no one wanted to bother to handle him. As a two year old, his father had beaten Cronin on general principles; later he beat him to drive out the perversity. The beatings, though breaking up his parents' marriage, had only made Cronin more obstinate. Now, at the age of eight, he was considered to be a child confirmed in wickedness; out of 

Actually, we are not a lonely group: time passes much too quickly for that. But the times of nostalgia and reminiscing come, moods that make us want ot touch the campus across the ocean. Since this is impossible, and we~ cannot begin to write letters to all the friends we left behind, this is our chance to return to ND, to tell everyone we are healthy (except for one skiing accident), and at peace. 
Mike Richter -A Merry Christmas to all those people who have been sending me mail. To 'those naughty people who haven't...! hope you get coal in your stocking. Hi Sue Frisse, the Family, Walsh, and of course all the Mikes. 
Linda Wilbert -To Carol, Marty, Deb, Mary Ellen, and all last year's 4th floor BP'ers, Merry Christmas. The beer and wine are great, but the Austrian cigarettes are schlecht! Time's flying by, but I love it over here. See you all next year. 
Debbie McGraw --'To Oeb J. from 
little Deb--do you miss our late night 
cockroach talk? Margy-keep those rolling 
papers-1'11 be around next year! Nan from 
the dwarf-hope you're keeping me in mind 
for a room next year. Merry Christmas to 
all! 
Rick Littlefield -To my associates and assorted dirt: Frohliche Weihnachten und ein besseres Neujahr. Remember, defend the free enterprise system and international trade. Praise to the Post! 
Anne Hunckler: Roomies: Remember control and beyond the competency of the drinking grandmother who was his prin­cipal sitter, and the neighborhood walted for the day when Cronin would be locked up by the cops. 
In the meantime, Cronin, with his two sisters, had become my chief proteges among the neighborhood children. Because of his special needs as a demon child, I tried to give him a special love and attention. There was no real way I could assume a father's role in Cronin's life, especially '>ince he had a father whom, despite the beatings, Cronin loved very much; but sadly, his father didn't seem to care much about Cronin. As for me, as a childless man, I would willingly have accepted Cronin as a son whom I could call my own; but both our lives were too complicated by other com­mitments for an adoption like that. Yet, if Cronin had ever said to me: "Be my father," his care would have become one of 
the major commitments of my life also. But there was a reserve within the child I could not impose upon. But I was his friend, his play-uncle, his neighborhood priest; and he was a boy of the neighborhood whose life seemed about to be thrown away; and I was determined to save him from his checkered reputation. 
I did everything I could for Cronin. There were movies, ba~ballgames, fishing trips; there were clothes, toys, trips, around New England. Cror.Dn and I got along beautifully as•long as I spoiled him, and sometimes even when I didn't. Looking back, I realize nowl was trying to bribe him with gifts so that I could be as important in his life as the father who only gave bini beatings. But despite everything I did for Cronin, be was 
still a badly adjusted child: not getting along with the other children; fighting with them, trying to dominate th~em, alert to every challenge of mischief. With my gift-giving and trip-taking, I handled him badly, too; but most of all I handled him badly when I became angry at him, because Cronin wa·s a child who had known too much anger. 
I made my ultimate discovery in child care in the middle of the Flushing meadows at the New York World's Fair. Cronin and I had gone down to the Fair on Sunday. By the following Friday, both of us were worn out from sight-seeing and amusements. That Friday fuoi'lling, he 
the year at innsbruck 
wanted to do something I knew was unreasonable and dangerous: he wanted to walk on the railing of a bridge that over­passed the traffic on one of the highways that crisscross Long Island, where a mis­step could have meant certain death. When he insisted on having his own way, I simply ~rupted with anger. I was genuinely grieved by the misconduct of a child who, I felt, owed me enough gratitude to be obedient, and I was frightened at the responsibility of looking after some one else's child. Consequently, I just generaly 
let him have 1t with wrathful words. 
After that, a great coolness developed between us, because Cronin simply stopped speaking to me. For half an hour, I might have been dealing with a mute child. I would invite him to enjoy some treat, or to look at some spectacle, and he would only shake his head. Finally, we sat down on an empty curb, chins resting in hands, like a couple of Dead End kids. 
Cronin said: "I guess I don't want to be 
friends any more." My heart almost turned 
around inside of me. 
"All right, Cronin," I said. "But I don't 
see how we can go home until Sunday." 
Sunday was the day when our ride •was to 
take us back to Boston. 
He nodded his head; he was decent 
enouah to be patient, which helpS a lot when 
you're both a couple of hundred miles from 
home. 
"Cronin," I said, ''I just can't allow you to 
do things that are going to end up hurting 
you. What would I tell your mother if 
anythiDg happened?''' 
"Sure," he said in agreement, because 
CroniQ adored his mother. "But you didn't 
have to get mad with me." 
That was when I began to understand my 
mistake. The world had always been angry 
with Cronin. His father beat him; his 
grandmother screamed at him; the mon­
signor had court-martialled him. But 
anger,. for Cronin, was only a language of 
alienation. Ang~r didn't care anything 
about him as a child needing love. I had told 
Cronin I cared a great deal about hm, and he 
had put me to the test. Like everyone else 
who said they loved him, I had become 
angry too, and Cronin didn't need more 
anger. 
Later, Cronin's mother told me she had 
been waiting for me to understand her child. 

letters from a lonely group 
post final partying. Rally, folks, Rally! Cue: make it back earlier this year. Neigh­bors <G+E+A): A letter has been in the making since 9-10-74. It's a-comin' some day. 
Mark Wurzel -To the gang in Zahm: For those ofyou who are contemplating setting dates-I expect to be the first to know. Congratsandthanks, Wally-Merry Christ­mas. MSW. P.S. Hi Bob! 
Kay Fineran-T&M: I will pay a candy cane if you will sing me a carol. Jingle those bells and throw some confetti. Hope all my friends have snow, easy finals, and a warm Christmas. Having fun here-hope you are too. 
Jon Gasior-Sorry, but 'I don't have any snappy messages or syings. 
Dan Kovac-Chip & 4B Flanner: Don't bother studying, right AI? Have a good Xmas and say Hi to the DVB & Moran. James! Say Hi to 7B and the Family back home. Tell Santa I want money and something nice. I may try to make Greece. Slam! 
Barb Heck-BP Beaners 5: Contrary to popular belief, Beaners do exist in Europe. Let's organize an international convention. For further information, contact overseas correspondent. J;looarb. P .S.--A lemonade float to go, please. 
Deborah ·Klug -Holiday greetings to all the Fudge-Wallys. Peg sends her best wishes for sensual pleasures from Rome. 
Jeff Macho-To Shawn, Mike, Voz, friends of fourth floor Fisher, and all those being crushed by the Golden Dome-The spirit of 
J. Rappa is dead and not living in lnn­sbruck. I wonder if classes will ever begin here. Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Long live booze and sex. 
Maureen O'Neill-Dear Deutsch teachers, Darby lovers, Duck feeders, Family, and friends, I'm making lots of new friends, but I really miss the old! Have a Merry Christmas and a SUPER New Year. Don't forget to feed the ducks. Love and peace. 
Dean Richardson-To all the 9th floor and Stanford members of the fashed, bashed, and crashed club, Happy Holidays from your branch office in · Innsbruck. · Happy Reynolds -Dear SMC women, ND honies, Moe Reynolds, and Jim, Merry Christmas from the true Tyrolian treasure. 
Sue Schellenbarger ::.-To '73 BP 3rd floor (Aerospace, Sudak, Sully, KK, and all the rest) : Hope you have a Merry Christmas <Terry, Marty and Bob, too). P.S. to Kerry K.-How about 12:15 at L'Arc de Triomphe. PPS--1 leave you with a few choice words: real, nice, wall, up, and· against. 
Laurie Kinney -"It was but yesterday we met in a dream. You have sung to me in my aloneness, and I of your longings have built a tower to the sky ... And if our hands should meet in another dream, we shall build another tower in the sky." Wishing for you­Kathy, Rich, John, Mark, Tom, Beth, Kath, Lou, Peg, and all ofND--a happy Xmas and a fulfilling year in every way. Much love to 

"I tried to tell you," she said, "but you couldn't understand: with Cronin, anger doesn't help." Itsounds so simple, put down on paper, but for me, it was a complicated human discovery, the truth of which cannot prove to you. I only know that a whole new relationship developed between Cronin and me, once I had learned that in a friendship that is truly creative, there is no room for anger. 
I am not writing off anger as a useful human emotion. I even think that sometimes when \parents are dealing with children, anger is jhelpful as a way of showing a child how deeply a father or mother cares about the drunken driving, or 
. the dishonest act, or the irresponsibility of promiscuous behaviour. But anger, per­petuated and self-righteously indulged in is an ego trip without1benefit or healing. 
Cronin is now a young man going to college. He is a fine, decent chap on his way to a career in one of the professions, and the neighbors have long since finished with expecting the cops. For two years, I was lucky enough to be a part of his growing up from a frustrated little guy struggling againstthe world's agner, as he knew the world in those Boston streets, into a thoughtful, \older child who was sure of himself because Jove had learned to be patient in its dealing with him. Being part of Croriln's childhood was one of my rchest experiences as a )uman being. It was as much of father as I will ever know, and perhaps as much as I will ever need to know. It taught me how god-like a father's gen­
•tleness must be, and how fatherly it is for God to be merciful. 
Whenever I see children playing in the streets these dayst I think of a small boy in Boston who once did an acrobat's tricks on a lamp post so that he could see the world from the viewpoint of a man. Eventually that small boy taught me to look at the world from the . viewpoint of a child needing gentleness. I gave the boy a gentleness he could grown on, and he gave me the kind of trust by which the man and the boy could belong to each other as friends. For• me, even more than for him, it made shimmying 
· up the lamp post a worthwhile trip. 
I say, thanks a lot Cronin, and God bless you, and have a Merry Christmas. Just remember: Darby and I never said we didn't love you. 
you all. 
Mitzi Audette -Europe's great, but !'there's no place like home"-and no one to take the place of loved ones left behind. Mark, Ra, Eggie, may yours be Peace and Happiness during this Holiday Season, and 
always. . Kathy Bailey -Donna & Betsy-Nothing I've gained this year could ever equal your 
· friendship. May the peace of Christmas bd with you throughout the New Year. To the flexible economist-myiclevernessfails-have a beautiful Christmas and may the new year 
. bring you many smiles. 
Bill Carey -P & M club-a festive Christmas. (No one's in trouble yet.) Reedy, sorry I haven't written. How's Mac? Farley (or Lyons)--all the best. And so on... 
Colleen Kelly -A joyous new year and­peace to you Maria Londergan, Ann Praught, and Pam Keumia. You're on my thoughts over the holidays and always. 
Phil Schubert -To Donato-thanks for all your previous advice on Europe...it did me no good! And to everyone else on Flanner UB-Merry Christmas. 
Joe Erpelding -Happy Holidays to Mickey, Tom, Jay, Mike. and all the rest of you Zahmbies, or to quote one of last year's seniors, "Tata and the boys." 
Tom Lacny -A sincerest wish of Christ­mas love & joy to all of my firends in Glee Club, Grace ·f.JHall, and Notre Dame! "To 
(Continued on page ·l2) 


Our Christmas Stocking 
"Alas, du Lac·, they God has for­saken thee, they Lady has deserted
dirty laundry and clean linen 
Editor, 
In the words of your eminently assinine columnist, Pete McHugh, "Let's not mince works." Okay, I won't. Mr. McHugh, your name, not that of Woody Hayes, is the only one that I would identify with the word "schmuck" after reading your cute little article. 
You accused Woody Hayes of being a detriment to football, education, and yes, even America. I would like to take this op­portunity to examine that statement and make you eat it bit by bit. You called Woody "a detriment to football." How can you call anyone with his overall record a detriment to the game? I hardly think that his employers or his players would agree with yo:.~. Sure his temper gets out of hand a little too ofter, but when you record is as good as his, you can afford to let off steam once in a while. Besides, I don't see that his temper is any more of a detriment to the image of football, than ~as the cowardice so superbly displayed by our own beloved Coach Par'­seghian in 1966. But then, I guess it's just a matter of which side you're viewing the two coaches from. I'm quite sure that if the situation were reversed, with Ara at Ohio State and Woody calling 
N.D. home, people would tend to see Woody as fiery (instead of .a raving maniac) and a harmless oldster (instead of a detriment to the game) while Ara would be a lousy, yellow, Armenian whose cowardice was a disgrace to the game. 
Second, you called Woody Hayes, "a detriment to education." Who writes your material? Abbie Hoffman? If you'd review the situation on the college campuses in the late '60's, you'd see that it was the people like Mr. Hayes, who tried to reason with the students rather than the apathetic profs and teachers who backed down, that finally brought an end to the college disorders. Perhaps if you'd try syncicating your column to schools like Berkely or Columbia, you'd find more support for your argument. I trust, however, that the average Notre Dame student possesses enough mental awareness, to regard your argument as just what it is, pure B.S. 
Finally, you stated that Woody Hayes was "a detriment to America." You cited as your reason, the fact that he was a staunch conservative who backed Nixon, Agnew and Ford. That's pretty funny, because in 1972, over 60 per cent of the American people similarly backed Nixon and Agnew. Furthermore, when President Ford took office in August (even after Watergate), polls showed that if elections were held, he would have soundly defeated any Democratic op­ponent. Clearly then, you cannot make much of. a case for your label.in~ Woody Hayes. "a 
1etriment to America." I'll grant you that he might be a detriment to Liberal America, and that he would never carry Massachusetts 
or D.C. as a presidential can­didate, but I hardly see him as a detriment to America. 
It is sad that people in your position, as a columnist on a paper with a fairly large circulation, who could use their columns for educational purposes (perhaps an in-depth study of why we almost lost to Pitt) choose to waste the space on a malicious attack of an opposing coach. It is sad, because when most people read a column such as yours, they assume that it is based on a careful analysis of the subject (which I've just shown it wasn't) rather than on a personal gripe. They further assume that you must know what you are talking about or else you would not be a columnist for the Observer. What they fail to realize, is that you were probably the only ap­plicant for your job, or that you got the job because you had a cousin; who knew a person whose great uncle once bumped into Knute Rockne, on a bus. 
Yours truly, 
Brian M. Clancy 
Dear Editor: 
The article about the ND swim team in your Nov. 21 issue was excellent and much appreciated. I hope you'll publish the results of the swim meets weekly. 
I have a regular subscription to The Observer and find it very enlightening, and usually well­written. Thanks for an unusually good student paper. 
Sincerely, 
Floy T. Meagher 
Dear Editor: 
Surely it was the pre­Thanksgiving rush and pressure which caused the lapse of taste and sensibility allowing you to publish the advertisement of p. 5 of The Observer, Fridday, November 22! I am sure I am only one of the many members of the Notre Dame community who found it an un­fortuantely clear example of an exploitative attitude toward women, destructive of real respect and understanding between the sexes. I trust that your editorial board will attempt in the future to be more perceptive and enlightened in your decisions on such matters. 
Sincerely, 
Isabel CharJes, O.P. 
Assistant Dean 
thee, and now thou stands besides 
thyself, alone in a sea of misery 
and despair..." 

To all people of the University: i1 Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter to clearify my position. The most rece~t ·:Ob~erver" 9:rticle about the mv1tation of gll'ls to the campus misinterpr~tet~d .the facts. The wrong 1mpbcations were drawn. Consequently, I am sure some peo~le were hurt ~nd-or of~ended. I ~1sh to apolog1z~. for th1s and clarify my exact pos1bon. 
The plans between Zahm, the three other men's halls, and the women's colleges were not dropped. As I had told the What the HELL is going on 
1 
. around here?!?! 

' 1 1, along with millions of others i&$t Saturday watched helplessly dumbfounded' probably the most shocking turnabout in the hisotyr of college football. And after the game my phone never stopped ringing, bringing calls from friends and relatives searching with question.<~ for answeres, ex­planations and even excuses as to what had happened. Un­fortunately, as shocked as I was, I 
reporter, I was not aware of the , was unable to provide anyone with exact date when I was first in-; anyting. But in the last few days I 
terviewed. As a result, I assumed  think I've heard them all:  Ara  
that it would be during Mardi Gras·  called  a  bad  game;  the  cold  
as  it had been for the past  two  ·  bothered  us·  the  defensive  line  
' 

years. I later learned, and ex­plained to Mr. Jacques, that the woen's visit was set for another date from the beginning. 
Mardi Gras was never involved with inviting the women. To those nee caused by the implication that they were. 
Whatever event(s) will be planned for these women, they will not be closed. All of the women of campus will be invited. I might add that the on-campus women were invited last year to the various social events provided for 
the women. 
I would like to reemplasize that these women were invited. We are not busing them in. No "cattle­drives" ever have or will be sponsored. The purpose of these kind of events is to provide for a social outl.et and interactio';t. Perhaps with clOS'er cooperation, we can avoid future conflicts and !Disinterpretations on similar Issues. 
Once again, I ~ust apologize for any hard feehngs th~t were created. Howe_ver, th1s letter should ';tOt be _m1s~ons~ed as a retraction; 1t 1s stmply a clarification of my views. 
stunk· the 'defensive backfield looked like it belong in a sandlot game· the offense in the xecond half ~ade even Cavanaugh Hall's offense look good; it was the trainers' fault because they couldn't build Bullock a new ankle in 15 minutes; T.C. was Too Cool; the band wasn't there· and the Father, Son and Holy Ghost had caught the last train back to the East Coast. There a re a host of , others but they probably aren't much more than variations on a 
theme. 

Truthfully, though, I think I've 
about had it. There's small reality 
many of us have failed to face. 
You see Virginia USC also had a 
team o~t there, ~nd ·a very good 
team at that. A team that for 
thirty-one minutes put on one of the 
most inspired performances of 
football even seen in this century. 
Believe it or not, we were beaten 
by something, we are quite 
familiar with--enthusiasm, 
emotion, just plan old psyche. SC 
was caught up in that special 
something, that magic that makes 
E!verything you touch turn to gold. 
There was nothing Ara, the team, 
nor probably the Blessed Mother 
Douglas A. Cox herself could have done to stop 
President, Zahm Hall them. We experienced as much fast year only it was spread out over a whole season instead of compacted into one half. For thl:\t matter, we saw it compacted into three minutes and twenty-twoDear Editor: seconds of basketball that even theMy sincere thanks to The Ob­"Wizard of Westwood" couldn't
server for the fine Thanksgiving control'· issue. I throught you did a great But to the present state of af­
job of covering a very important fairs. I have never in my nineteenand sensitive area. The articles tears of existence seen such awere varied and gave different dejected and despaired com­points of view-but the whole mood tnunity as ours. The war isn't evenconveyed an attitude of deep1 ~ver and already we've conceded
concern. 1 (lefeat. My sympathy really goesI have found all the staff that II j>ut to Coach Parseghian, who ishave come into contact with, most, how being blasted for having a 9-2helpful and cooperatve. 
season most

My warmest thanks for all your: season, a coaches 
\vould give their right arm for. Buthelp. 
you say, "This is different, this is 
Mary Ann Roeme Notre Dame." . I agree with you, this IS Notre Dame. Why don't we start acting like it?! Where is our r>ride? Or are we above having any? There's a Bear in the woods . 
of Alabama just licking his chops waiting to get revenge for a. New 
Year's Eve defeat. And believe me, he's out humiliate us as much as he can. Besides that, we're his key to that mythical, but coveted national championshpp. Maybe pride is ALL we have to play for, but I ask you, isn't that enough? People keep talking about a Nebraska game two years past. Maybe we should treat it as a learning experience rather than an example what the future holds in store. 
A rallying son, 
Dan D'Antonio 
Christmas in Prison 
Dear Students: 
Care to bring some sunshine to a 
young kid behind walls? A 19 yr. 
old "offender" at Ionia Prison in 
Michigan would just like to 
correspond with a woman student 
at ND or SMC. He's a decent, 
sensitive kid. He'd like anyone 
willing to write to get in touch with 
the Assignments Director for Cass 
County. That person could tell you 
about the kind, his life, and why 
he's in jail. If you'd like to help a 
fellow man, please leave your 
name in the Legal Aid Office at the 
Law School, marked for the Cass 
Assignments Director. Thanks. 
Assignments Director 
8LONPI&, YOU 60TTA APHIT, 61NNY5 8EIN6
1 
HI6HTY ~KKiHTf' j I H&AN, 7H& (j(RL'5 JIJST : NOTtt»QN'AT.4JJ.. 711& o AWANTA6t5fFHAYIN'~ 

0 
0 
0 
z 
rn 
OJ 
c 
~ 


left,irl lhe lurch 
huqh· harman 
On the Friday before Thanksgiving there appeared a short blurb hidden on page 8 of The Observer telling of an attack by a number of students on a Lyons Hall resident. Needless to say the story was widely read throughout the campus com­munity. What was not stated in the article was that the Security Department did not release the facts of the article to The Ob­server, but rather notes on the Security report were smuggled out of the Security office without the knowledge, much less the approval, of Mr. Pears, the director of Security. 
The smuggling of the report touched off a furor at Security headquarters since ap­parently Mr. Pears had had no intention of releasing the report of the attack to the campus in general. 
Unfortunately for Security, it would seem that .the studerit body would have some right to know of any and all such attacks etc. which take place on this campus. Certainly the knowledge of such attacks would not be in any way harmful to anyone: names for instance, of the victims are left out of The Observer stories preventing any possible embarrassment over the situation. Indeed, knowledge of incidents of this kind might cause students to be a bit more careful when walking through campus at night or at least to think twice about walking alone. 
So what reason could Security and Mr. Pears have for refusing to release such reports? Merely to save face? Is there some fear that full disclosure of the number of such attacks and like incidents would reflect poorly on Security? Apparently so, when one considers the reaction of Mr. Pears to the publication of the report. · 
The most unfortunate aspect of this 
publication incident is that it is symp­
tomatic of a larger sense of distrust, almost 
a feud, between Security and the student 
body. This kind of siege mentality is 
prevalent at Security, especially in regards 
to the Observer. Without exaggeration, many of the officers apparently feel that nothing would give the students greater pleasure than to see the Security officers tarred, feathered, and run off campus. As a result, Security has battened down the hatches and refused to let any information out to the student body. No officer, for in­stance, is allowed to give out any in­formation to any student. When The Ob­server requests information from any nf the Security telephone operators, they receive nothing but a referral to Mr. \Pears. 
So instead of attempting to better relations through a policy of education and openness Security and Mr. Pears have 
· managed to promote their 'already poor image by a rule of secrecy and we find Security and the student working afalmost cross purposes: Security guarding the student ·against rip-offs, etc., etc., and Security guarding itself against the student. What is needed instead is a policy o•openness and co-operation. Incidents such as those referred to above should not be covered up but instead be given the widest possible publicity in an attempt to cut down incidents · of this type. Students should know what Security is about to do and what its limitations are. The Notre Dame Security Department, for instance, can no more be expected to stop all attacks on this campus than the South Bend Police Department can 
be expected to halt all robberies ·in South Bend. But instead of disseminating in­formation of this sort, the decision has apparently been made by Mr. Pears and the Powers That Be to put a shroud of secrecy on the whole matter, ignoring the fact that student co-operation with the Security Department would undoubtedly greatly increase the efficiency of the department. 
Hopefully something can and will be done in this area in the (near?) future, although the prospect of a change looks dim. The first move will have to come from Security. 
Darby O'Garbo 
-----bill brink 
Indeed, new campus celebrity Darby O'Gill has been hard to miss around Notre Dame lately. Displaying the frults of ~ overnight fame and success, he is rarely seen in public now/Witbou~ an impressive entourage. Flocked by press agents, body guardl, : lovely female doglets, and sporting a paisley ascot and min'of 1 sunglasses, Darby leaves no doubt that he has gone Hollywood. 
One can look back over the last several years and see the careful nursng of this star-bound spaniel to his present position. First, the humble, small-town "man's bed friend" routine. This led to small positions in Off-campus productions, barking and biting landlords, and other thiefs. . . . 
His agents launched Ihim to stardom early this semester when they contrived an ingenious publicity stunt. Security at first hesitated to cooperate, fearing a loss of respect in their ability, but later agreed to comply when convinced that it could only enhance their image here on campus. One of their officers arrested Darby, charging fraud and extortion. Previously notified reporters and photographers were on hand, and as four officers pawprinted and ~ handcuffed Darby, they recorded in picture and print his gruff, tough-dog image. Memories of Sinatra, Brando, Provosts crept into mind. 
The swift ascent ot the top was recently cutminated when tile calculating cocker opened his own cafe, Chez Darby, or Darby's Place. It is frequented by other top campus celebrities of note-the whole of Student Union; the /Faculty Senate; and assorted 
I 
English Majors. Darby himself appears nightly from 10 till. 
The cafe has received praise from all sectors of the University. One student administrator has called it a healthy, constructive atmosphere of mutual social interaction at a coeducational in­stitution, one which adheres to the socialjguidelines\ that we,. as an administrative body profess to believe in. ' 
The Athletic Department has offered to come up with a system of seating and tickets should the cafe's popularity grow to the point where that becomes necessary. No exact figures are known, but one inside source commented "since there is \no charge for ad­mittance now, the price of tickets will have to go up at least three times that figure ... ?" 
Campus Ministry has approached Darby about the possibility of him celebrating Saturday evening mass in the cafe, offering to provide their own script, robes and light show in place of Darby's more conservative one's. 
Darby appears determined to decline all these offers and pursue his promising career on the coast. His agents are concerned with the fact that other animals capture the hearts of Indiana natives, dogs ranking only sixth in popularity, whPreas they rank first in California. · 
Should Darby decide to turn pro this year, the superstar ranks on campus would be reduced to a few class B administrators and dining hall workers, a damaging void that would be hard to fill. All the candidates would be thrown into a lottery, the winner being chosen and appointed, and the rest being forced into modular housing in Elkhart. 
Meanwhile, while other normal dogs are catching frisbees, chasing cats and digging up flower beds, new Hollywood celebrity Darby O'Gill will be walking sunset Boulevard and doing his thing. 
Old Friends and New Dreams
&"!!iiT!ioEdiirEei:aiimEiithii!e&im•poiiisiisliib=leEd:r:.eaem•.'•b!luiiltE;:peo:iiil!ip~le•=r=e=a~lliiiyiiiiimiia~k=e~it•al!ls•w=r~it&ei!rsEo:i!!r5:1t•o•th~eiiii•P•re•v~i•ou•s••Pe•r~iodll!l•of~".J.ran~pame9J~!~!L
they're your own words, musicians. Sooner or later you'll have to get Prosperity." It seems to me that "In-surrender himself to a meaningless major 'To fight the unbeatable foe,' don't you some kind of business job." dividualistic Sixties" and "Postwar simply because it offers more "security?" remember? I looked up at him and couldn't get the Mediocrity" are much more appropos. In 1939 the GoodWitch'of the North taught 'To bear with unbearable sorrow' you resemblance out of my mind. I tried to tell People in the sixties did exactly what they Dorothy that heriheart'P: desire was always must remember!" him that Michael and I would like to start a believedin and once again began to realize right in her own back yard. But beforp it Dulcinea to Don Quixote magazine, that I as going to try to sell some themselves as individuals because they had could be realized she had to truly believe i~. I had a very disheartening Thanksgiving of my songs, that, well the whole idea of faith in themselves. This is the only way to Perhaps college is taking us on our own little vacation. Getting together with old friends taking a few years off was to try to do what I true success. How !else could a· nineteen journey to bring us to this same end. Rolling usually means pleasant memories but with liked best. God,I tried but he just sat there year old kid from Hibbing, Minnesota with Stone magazine ran ~review of Elton John's graduation arriving in six months this in his typical suburban living room giving no musical training become one of the most last album in which they described him as particular reunion meant exchanging future me typical suburban smiles until I added, influential exponents of American music? the "Maestro of Mediocrity." It was a good plans. I asked my friend Tony what law "If I can't get anywhere after a couple of When Dylan arrived in New York he had review of a talented artist who has let schools he had applied to. years I want to go to journalism school." nothing but his guitar and an overwhelming himself commercially degenerate into the "Well, no more law school plans for me," This appeased him and I made some desire to be "as big as Elvis." People told seventies. Ironically, one of his r most he kind of laughed, "460 on my LSAT." excuse to leave. I drove home with another him he couldn't sing but he didn't care. He mediocre albums was titled, "Goodbye 
I was immediately annoyed at the old friend who plans on taking a few years had a dream and persisted until it was Yellow Brick Road.'1Does DOrothy's dream Collegiate Testing Service for so suddenly off and trying to make it as a studio realized. get lost in the flood? Only if vie let our lives determining my friend's future but sup-musician. But it's different again now. Thiit be run by the masses instead of ourselves. pressed my emotions and asked him what "Tony's certainly straightening out," he American Dream is becomingldistortediJ.":e In fact, it may be more than interesting he planned to do. said. it did in the fifties. Instead of success b, ·:1g trivia to note that the same Good,lWitct:who 
"I was pretty lucky," he told me, "I got a "Yes," I agreed and when he dropped me different things to different people it .,as gave Dorothy that advice went on to become job with an accounting firm in the City." off I sat in our family room and thought for a kind oti'rounded itself off to a general 1 ken Cosmo Topper's wife in the early television 
"Oh," I thought. But I said, "That's long time. that is measured monetarily. People ,eem situation comedy Topper. And if that isn't great." I was going to ask him if that was It seems to me that the saddest fact of the to think that if they make their money first, mediocre enough, her name was Henrietta. what he really wanted to do but he began to American Dream is that it is not a myth-it they can then proceed to do what they want. But you seejthat's American history. We speak. is a very real concept, and because of the But after! a while the means seem to can no more help out Henrietta than we can 
"How about you, what are you doing next complex life of this very real world it often dissolve right into the end like those urge Hemingway to write another novel. year? " His father passed by in th~ gets distorted. In fact,l it goes through alkaseltzer tablets that help these people Many of our heroes are gone and making hallways and for a split second I saw in To~Y· periods of distortion. People worked hard in through their self~induced 'pressures. And movie~ of Fitzgerald or James just does an amazing resemblance. I answered hts the thirties to rebuild an economic mess of a they drink down the whole bubbly mess and nothing to a mediocre society but make it question without commenting. nation. But!O!}ce it was prosperous again never even think about lwhat they really more mediocre. Bette Midler is damn 
"Well, Michael and I are going to move to Americans kind of sat back and let a wave want because by now they're not really entertaining but she is not a cultural San Francisco and try to get newspaper of mediocrity! si~! in and dominate. Why go sure. heroine. jobs." to a Broadway show when you can sit at If college students should consider one Only by doing what wEibeUevein can we 
"What if you can't?" He took a sip from home and watch the T.V.? Why stay in the idea in their entire four years, that should be truly succeed where other generations may his drink and again Ithought of his father,' city when we can now move out to Long the philosophy that if I want something bad have failed. Now is the time to decide, while and for some strange reason his attractive• Island and live next door to countless other enough I can get it. It's not always easy. we are still wavering between what we want girlfriend sitting next to him seemed to people who live next door to someone? Dylan realized it. So did Stephen Daedelus, to do and what we might settle for. In fact, resemble ... but no, I stopped thinking and But fortunately we wisened up. People and believe me he learned the hard way. there's absolutely no time to lose. Like continued the conversation. again began to think as individuals and did But why turn the seventies into another age Ruby Tues.day says, we must "catch our 
"Well then we'll just get whatever job we what they really wanted. But people always of mediocrity'? If a student really wants to dreams before they slip away.~· can and spend our evenings writing.'' think negativ4tly. They speak of the be a doctor by all means let him study for I wonder if my friend Tony still listens to "But Frank, it's hard to do that; not many. ':Turbulent Sixties" when they compare it his Friday morning Chem quiz. But if he the Rolling Stones.
-
~ -~ 
at notre dame during world war 2 
by gary zigman 

On August 14, 1945, students returned to the residence halls after Tuesday evening dinner to hear the joyous news of the war's ending. IThey poured out of the halls and assembled on the south quadrangle before the flag which was flowing in a soft, cool breeze. The NROTC band played the National Anthem. Throughout the day the sky had been overcast, but as dusk ap­proached, the sun broke through the clouds and reflected brilliantly off the golden dome. Yes, the war was over. Led by the band the students marched down Notre Dame A venue toward South Bend and joined the already celebrating crowds. Rejoicing was everywhere, and Father O'Donnell completed it by announcing a two.<Jay holiday. 
That is the way the war ended at Notre Dame. The build up had begun four years earlier, almost to the day. In the summer of 1941 Father J. Hugh O'Donnell, President of Notre Dame, and Father John J. Cavanaugh, Vice-President, offered the University's facilities to the Army. The Army refused, but the Navy accepted. So, in September of 1941, the first NROTC units, made up of Notre Dame students, were on campus. 
On a cold, wintry Sunday afternoon on December 7, 1941, news of the Pearl Harbor tragedy reached campus. Everyone was concerned, and many students wanted to join the service. A tremendous wave of support swept the campus with no resent­ment against the military. After President Roosevelt's declaration of war the naval program here became massive. 
First, there was the NROTC, made up of 
Notre Dame students who continued their 
four-year college course. Then came the 
Midshipmen School composed of graduates and responsibility. The committee of graduate studies was replaced by a dean, Father Philip S. Moore, and a council. The Industrial Advisory Committee, set up to interest industrialists in Notre Dame's research, gave direction and incentive to the graduate schools of science and engineering. Notre Dame was also selected as a Key Center of War Information. 
Many faculty members were drafted during the war; some left voluntarily and were commissioned. If a professor did not teach in the naval program or certain other specified courses, he probably lost his job temporarily. The Air Force recruited faculty members for their teaching programs elsewhere. In fact, Professor Bernard Waldman, who is stilll at the university, was in the observation plane that watched the atomic bomb drop on Hiroshima. 
Several Notre Dame priests volunteered as chaplains. Some twenty-five of these priests were commissioned among the three branches of the service and served in Europe and the Pacific. 
The traditional system of dining was a casualty of the war. Before the war, all students entered and were seated in the dining hall at the same time. They were served family style by waiters. The Navy substituted a cafeteria system to conserve food and labor. This caused much dissent among the students. The waiters were replaced by the food lines, and the plastic trays replaced the table cloths and German silver. Students marched to the three meals to the sounds of the Navy Drill Band arrayed in front of the Law Building. Univorms were mandatory at all meals. 
Sports and the Notre Dame athletic tradition continued. Although the war 

Midshipmen in the South Dining HaD during the early f...U.. <UIIIYenlty Art:hlves PH&e) 


from other colleges. They remained at Notre Dame for periods of two or four months of intensive training and special classes. For most it was their first contact with a Catholic college atmosphere. These V-7 candidates, as they were called, could not get married before they were com­missioned. 
In 1943 came the V-12 Navy men and the accompanying V-12 Marines. These were Notre Dame men plus numerous outsiders. Many had seen service and were returning for training in math and physics. They were not officers but they took the regular four­year college education. Anyone who flunked was put in one of the special programs in the Great Lakes Naval Training Station, north
' ~ 
of Chicago. Finally, the 4-F's were civilians wbo could
t 
not get into the service for one reason or another. Never were there more·than 400
t 
civilian students on campus at any one time. The Navy Drill Hall was erected on the 
! t 
present site of the library. '.fhe ROTC building, supposed to be temporary, still stands. An extensive obstacle course was developed on the edge of campus and _a vigorous physical education program was set up in the Rockne Memd\"ial. Major reviews were held in the football field parking lot which was then grass. 
Three problems faced the university's administration: integration of naval training with the university curriculum; supervision of the Civilian Pilots' Training Corps; and arrangement of adult training courses for defense workers to be taught at night. 
Housing was adjusted accordingly. The civilians were housed mainly in Sorin Hall; the NROTC lived in Walsh Hall; the V-12 navy men lived in Dillon and Alumni; the V­12 marines occupied Cavanaugh, Zahm, and St. Ed's Halls; while the V-7 were placed in Badin, Howard, Morrissey, and Lyons Halls. There was much interhall rivalry, and the allocation of halls changed ac­cording to the demands of the program. 
Many changes occurred in the university during these years. In 1944 the graduate school was reorganized for OlDre direction 
seriously hurt the team's manpower and 
depleted some good talent, the football team 
was able to be ranked in the top ten in the 
five years between 1941-5. In fact, Notre 
Dame won the national championship in 
1943. Coach Frank Leahy took a two-year 
leave of absence from the team in 1944 and 
1945 to go into the service. Because of 
wartime restrictions on transportation, the 
football team did not play the University of 
Southern California in the three years from 
1943-5. Other sports were much more 
popular then than now, and interhall sports 
enjoyed a renaissance. 
Religious interest increased at Notre Dame during the war. Nightly hymns and prayers were said at the Grotto. Many retreats were held, and afternoon mass was started while Protestant ministers in downtown South Bend held services for non­Catholics. 
The morale of the students was generally good. No one protested against the service or the war. Students were neither depressed nor scared. Ratherr there was an excitement about the war, and a "gung ho" attitude prevailed. Yes, everyone wanted to win the war and win it quickly. 
The social life on campus was reasonably 
good. Proms, dances, and balls were very 
popular. Hall parties were very popular; 
although alcohol was prohibited, it was 
often consumed illegally at such gatherings. 
South Bend girls were as pouplar then as St. 
Mary's girls. Cigarettes were a cherished 
commodity and pipes were common. The 
local Hoosiers were friendly. 
A free movie was shown every Saturday 
night at the Navy Drill Hall. Many students 
went downtown for their entertainment. 
Especially popular was an officer's club 
offerink' drinks for ten cents each. Next to 
the Morris Civic Auditorium was the Palais 
Royal, a prominent USO club and ballroom. 
Students were usually given liberty to go downtown on Saturday nights only. Students "put on tree" could not leave campus, however. At that time the Knights of Columbus, prestigious on campus, put on carnivals to raise money for the USO. The Rockne Memorial served as a place for 
· 
many dances. The old Huddle, now the band storage room, was a popular eating and gathering place on campus, especially among the seniors. The Huddle sold clothing in those days in addition to food. 
Skating on St. Mary's Lake was popular in the winter. Picnics with the girls were frequent during the warmer months. Such 

in the crowded hours of their preparation 
for the grim business· of war, they had absorbed notre dame's spiritual strength 
social life was generally enjoyable, con­sidering the frightening aspects of the war. 
However, a military atmosphere with all its regimentation prevailed on campus. Everyone had to arise at 6 in the morning 
and preparefor calisthentics, and everyone went to bed early at night. Bed checks were common, although upperclassmen were allowed to stay up fairly late. Uniforms were required during the day while Drill, reviews, and marching were always taking 
~ 

1: christmas at innsbruck 
(Continued /rom page 9) forget a friend is sad. Not everyone has had a friend. And if I forget him, I may become like the grownups who are no longer in­terested in anything but figures ... " My thoughts and prayers will be with you always! Mark Dulworth -To last year's occupants of 408 Morrissey and environs: Merry Christmas and drop dead. Kaiser Mark von Osterreich. Greg Buckley-"To suffer woes which hope thinks infinite, To forgive wrongs darker than death or might, To defy power which seems omnipotent, Neither to change, nor falter, nor repent: This.. .is to be good, great, joyous, beautiful, and free, This is alone life, joy, empire, and vic­tory." -Peter Shelly 
Kent Conness-Merry Christmas to Phubber, Greg, Terry, Joel, Bill, Pete, Ed, and also to John Cavanaugh and Joe Greco, have a good 1975, too. The light of today lights an empty meadow. There are no people, but there are butterflies and rabbits, too. And lazy clouds floating above, nowhere bound. 
Joe Browder-To Cress, Killer, Mat, Bill, Florence, Dave, and anybody else who came into contact with the members of the 251 True Notre Dame Derelict Club, Merry Christmas ... Tennessee Joe 

place. Students needed passes to leave for the weekend. All was routine and restric­tion. 
The archives of the Navy were returned to Washington, D.C. and not made available to Notre Dame. However, the school's ar­chives stated that 11,925 officers were trained here between 1942-6, and thousands of naval and marine trainees came out of Notre Dame during the period. Notre Dame did pay a price, however. Some 333 alumni and students died in the war, and this did not include the Midshipmen or V-12 men. Several faculty members and some sports­figures died during the war from natural causes. 
Admiral Chester Nimitz upon receiving 
an honorary degree in 1946 said of Notre 
Dame men: "Father O'Donnell, you sent 
forth to me, as to other naval commands on 
every ocean and continent, men who had 
become imbued with more than the 
mechanical knowledge of warfare. 
Somehow, in the crowded hours of their ' preparation for the grim business of war, they had absorbed not only Notre Dame's traditional fighting spirit, but the spiritual strength, too, that this University imparts to all, regardless of creed who come under its 
influence." 
-


Cy Reed-To the South Dining Hall Break­Iast Club-Keep up the good tradition, Merry Christmas. Don McNeil, president emeritus. Greg Weightman-Merry Christmas: to all the derelicts in Alumni especially two misplaced roomates (and anyone from Beaver Dam, Wise.), the McKeon twins, Helen , Lou, Kathy, Peg, and Beth. 

Chris O'Brien-To the "Alumni Gang," 314 Lemans, 112 Dillon, Digger & Ribs: All is great in lnnsbruck! No premature showers, ROTCs, picnics, or shirt destructions here! Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. Kill that Raider! ...Scoop. 
Sharon Sullivan-Hey Flunkies, how is the 
1.0 Club standing up? Hope the Campus housing hasn't caused the club to dissolve. Merry Christmas Twins, Rox, Little Gien­miss ya' lots. Kathy is pre-med? I think Gien and I will be together on Christmas-we will be thinking of you guys. Hey tennis team have a good season. 
Kate Dueferberg-Sue, Kathie, Margo, Greek, Carol: Happy Christmas-take care that things don't get too exciting old SMC. Sue: How could you leave me for a new and better roommate? We;ll miss you. N.T.: How's your streaking partner? Holiday greetings to you and family. 
Cindy Paas-Sorry, she was too late. But she is here and existing in Praddler­Saggen, 
Tim O'Reiley-Sorry about the title, Griff. But don't cuss, call us. And to all a good night. 

-------.-------. -----~------~-------~---­
Friday, December 6, 1974 the observer 15 

Football progra1n sales do-wn since liquor ad prohibition 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
Sports information Director Roger Valdiserri commented yesterday on the effect liquor advertising in university publications has had on revenues from the sale of football programs. 
The ll}diana state law, which prohibits manufacturers and distributors of alchoholic beverages from advertising in programs and other publications of educational institutions, went into effect for the first time this school year. 
Valdiserri said the new law, "hurt our whole program situation. It has cut into our ad­vertising revenue which helps pay for printing. We had to work a great deal more to replace those ads, and we weren't able to make it all up."
Part of the problem, Valdiserri explained, is that beer and liquoradvertisers, "took out full-page color ads in the past. We had to fill those pages with several black­and-white ads this year." 
In response to an inquiry, 
New neighborhood association formed 
by Ellen Syburg Staff Reporter 
The Harter Heights Association, a newly formed neighborhood organization, is drafting an am­mendment to the South Bend zoning code which, if passed by the Common Council, would significantly affect the availability of off-<!ampus student housing. 
According to Edward Mark, one of the leaders of the association, the proposed ammendment, which would affect any area in the city zoned "residential A", is designed to limit those neighborhoods to single family dwellings. The 
amendmentwould define family as no more than two unrelated adults. 
This would then prevent groups of students from renting homes in that area. 
Harter Heights, which is wned 
"residential A", is an upper 

0-C STUDENTS 
STARVE A THIEF FOR CHRISTMASI 
Leave Valuables: Clothes, Books, Stereos, Radios and Appliances with Volunteer Staff and Faculty Families for the Christmas Break 
CALL STUDENT GOV'T (283-7668} THIS WEEK 
LEAVE NAME AND PHONE NUMBER IF INTERESTED 
tore at "Your 0 wn R.ISk" Rather Than Leaving "At High Risk"! 
middle class neighborhood directly south of the University. "Three years ago there were one or two student houses here. This year there are eighteen," stated Mark, "this tends to cause rowdiness and wild parties and create an un­desirable atmosphere to raise a family in." 
Mark estimated that the association presently has one . hundred members and that others in the area have expressed in­terest. He added, "This neigh­borhood has many Notre Dame people in it; I would say about fifty of our members are directly connected with the University." "Banks are already considering this a deteriorating neighborhood and some people have been denied mortgages because of this, "Mark contended. He added, "Our fear is that the value of the property will 
Valdiserri said that there were no current plans to raise the price of programs next year. "I would be very reluctant to raise our prices," he stated, "although other schools have gone up to $1.25 for a program. We will raise our prices only if forced to by the increasing costs of printing and paper." The cost of both of these items, Valdiserri pointed out, has greatly increased in the past year, especially paper which has gone up 69 percent.
Valdiserri said that his office has written to the state alcoholic beverage commission pointing out aspects of the new law which he termed "antiquated and unfair." 
"The law is ridiculous and antiquated.," Valdeserri stated, pointing out that liquor manufacturers and distributors are permitted in thestateoflndiana to sponsor radio broadcasts of college sports events. 
"Go to the little League park," he continued, "and look at the billboards in the outfield. They're beer advertisements, and the kid out in center field has "Schlitz" written across his jersey." 
Valdiserrf pointed to other in-descend rapidly in direct proportion to the greed of the real estate people who own and rent homes in this area." 
Mark stressed that the action should not be construed as anti­student or anti-Notre Dame. "We have many people connected with the University who favor this action and many of us have college-age children faced with the same housing problems at their schools. But we have substantial investments here, and we can't lose this," he explained, "It only takes a year or two to kill a neigh­borhood." 
Fr. Tallarida, director of off­campus housing, reacted to the proposed ammendment. "I have my doubts that it would be passed. It steps on too many vested in­terests." 
<continued on page 18) 
consistencies ln the ABC rulings. "They issue licenses to taverns in the neighborhood of the campus. And yet the purpose of this law is to encourage temperance." 
"There's not a great deal of logic behind it," he concluded, "when they permit other things to go on." 
MAY YOU HAVE PEACE AND HAPPINESS THIS CHRISTMAS SEASON. BEST WISHES FOR THE NEW YEAR 
THE ORANGE BOWL) 
219 N. Michigan Avenue 

Cavalier 
Cmnera  
Scottsdale Mall  
next  to  
Bishop's  Buffet  
0  pen  Till  9 5  pm pm  Evenings Sunday  
Complete  Line  of  Camera  
and  Darkroom  Supplies  

KEN'S DEN 
BARBER-HAIRSTYLING 
Award winning stylists 
Unique atmosphere Rottler styling products 
703 LWW (ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER) 

Phooe 255-6500 Appointments eferred 





AI RiJZZClllO Aql'nl 
'Tearafter year,I semester after semester, the CollegeMaster from Fidelit)' Union Life lias been the most accepted most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out whY. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegeMaster .Field Associate 
m your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle South Bend. Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
... ·:~~ 
((~'··)llcgL'MtlStcr 




Another Continental Discount Fare: 
STAND BY TO SAVE 

TO LOS ANGELES 
16 the observer Friday, December 6, 1974 
NE neighborhood:a probleDl of preservin the ~nost diverse neighborhood in city 
by Ellen Syburg The neighborhood has large 
Starr Reporter concentrations of elderly, black, white middle income and a tran­sient poplulation of Notre Dame
Case 1: An elderly widow whose 
Observer Insight: 
students. "We have about 45only income is her monthly social percent elderly in what is really a
security check finds it very dif­ficult to rent a home for less than on fhe east by Eddy St., on the west northeast neighborhood has been very settled community. Most of 
the residents have lived in this
$250 a month in the neighborhood by Michigan St., on _the north by regarded historically, as a 
where she has lived her entire life. Angela Blvd., and on the south by prestigious place to live. It was a area for all or most of their lives," Several years ago she could have South Bend Ave. quiet stable neighborhood with Taylor said. rented the same house for $145 a many professional people making 
Preserving the Neighborhood Northeast Neighborhood Center 
month. their homes there." Case 2: A young white family How do these · people find Harter Heights, a several block The problems that face thesethat wishes to make a com­themselves as neighbors? How area within the northeast side, is people can perhaps best be iden­mittment to an old, urban and can they cooperate for their still one of the more desireable tified by the programs that exists 
integrated neighborhood finds mutual benefit? What must be South Bend neighborhoods and to solve them. The Northeast their resolve to do this strongly done for the ultimate survival of many Notre Dame professors Neighborhood Center, founded challenged by the late night noise the neighborhood? make their homes there. December 9,1969, exists to identify
and rowdiness produced by the Those people in South Bend who Roger Parent, city councilman and alleviate the problems of the 
student patrons of seven nearby are concerned about the growth of for the northeast side, stated, neighborhood. Its staff consists of
the city and the quality of life "Four or five years ago the area
taverns. five people: center director, social 
available in it regard the northeast was really going downhill fast.
Case 3: A middle class college worker, two community out-reach 
student, who has led a fairly af­neighborhood as a very crucial However with tis federal money 
workers and a secretary. Taylor,fluent life, rents an: off-eampus one. John Ross, professor of the neighborhood has improved." center director, stated, "We are home with four of his friends and government at Notre Dame and R.ENEW,Inc. has also been really a resource agency. We have 
each pay $60 a month i~ rent.. northeast resident, feels this very responsible for salvaging some of no funds of our own to buy a poorWhile the rent may be paid by h1s strongly. "This neighborhood has the homes in the area. RENEW is person food or clothing but we have 
father, the student encounters the most diverse racial, social and a city-wide organization that buys the resources to connect them with 
economic hardship when the stereo economic make-up that you can old, run-down homes and through the private or public help theysystem in which he invested his find in the city. The key to a volunteer labor, refurbishes them. need." summer earnings is stolen one healthy city is preserving city The homes are then sold to low­The building is truly a com­afternoon while he is at school. neighborhoods and the northeast income families with purchase munity center. It is avail bale to 
area is one that must make it," terms that are modelled for each any group in the neighborhood as asaid Ross. particular case. meeting place. The staff brings
The above cases are very dif­The area is one that has changed While thephysicalappearance of people from outside the area to theferent in the people, perspectives complexions several times. Mrs. the neighborhood is far from center to run programs of alland problems they represent yet Marguriet Taylor, head of the perfect most will agree that it has types. The local Scout trooops, 4-H one could find numerous examples Northeast Neighborhood Center been improved in recent years. clubs and Head Start groups meet of each in South Bend's northeast and a lifelong resident of the What about the people who live in 
(continued on page 17)
nei~hborhood-a small area bound Northeast siade, points out, "The these homes? 

1723 SOUTH BEND AVE.
·------­
J 1M-CLASS OF '63 CHUCK-CLASS OF '65 PROPRIETORS 
--------~. ------t 
SEASON'S GREETINGS 
-------·-----­
IRISH: TURN THE TIDE ON NEW YEAR'S NIGHT! 
-----·------­

·~ Sladiu~ 
Juniper 
-~ 
!--------· 
EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER-200YDS.ON LEFT. 
DISCOUNT AVAILABLE CALL AHEAD FOR KEGS 9800 

..... 
You come out ahead because we really move our tail. 
Believe it or not, our L.A. Standby Discount Fare on selected flights is only $104. And we have Standby Discount service to Denver for $60, saving you $25 off Coach fare. 
Then there's Night Coach Discount to Los Angeles for $116, or $30 less than Coach. 
We're also the only airline with Economy Discount service throughout our route system-another way to save, just for skipping a meal. Some sample fares: 
LOS ANGELES $131 SAVE $15 
DENVER OR COLORADO SPRINGS $ 75 SAVE $10 ALBUQUERQUE $ 89 SAVE $10 KANSAS CITY $ 41 SAVE$ 4 SAN FRANCISCO, 
PORTLAND OR $131 SAVE $15 
SEATTLE 
Remember too, a travel agent costs you nothing extra, so call one for the good word on all our Discount Fares. Or call us at 686-6500. At holiday time or any time, we can proli>ably get you where you live. for less. 
All fares are one way and include tax; airport security s11rcharge extra. 
We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 

The Proud Bird with the Golden lail. 
-------------~------------~-----------~-----------~--.....-----~ 
Friday, December 6, 1974 the observer 1 7 
0-C students add neighborhood's problems 
drinking or misconduct on the part
(continued from page 16) 
of the student. In effect, they there. A free immunization clinic agreed to become a rector. Now is held the first Tuesday of each the students are their own month. A blood pressure testing supervisors," Quigley said. clinic is also made available to the It is not only the -rules that have elderly residents. 
changed; it is also the numbers. 
A daily lunch program for the Because of Notre Dame's recent elderly is also maintained. REAL overcrowaingproblems, a larger Services runs the program with 90 number of students than ever 
percent of the funds from the before is seeking housing. Parent government and 10 percent from described the difference, "Itis now donations. Taylor describes it, economically profitable for a 
"We serve a very well-balanced landlord to buy a number of houses meal to them and it makes no in the area and rent only to difference whether they pay an­
students." It seems that because thing or not. We also provide tran of the number 9f students seeking sportation to and from the center 
housing off-campus, the landlord is for those who need it." Lunch is 
assured of renting his home. served to an average of 45 people a Parent continued, "The best day. 
students, by combining in groups The center staff also works out in 
of four or five are able to afford a the community. "We work to 
much higher rent than most of the we argued on plifloshopica permanent residents would belocate housing for low-income grounds--what is this place going tt asked to or be able to pay." Thuspeople and our out-reach workers be like to live in." 
one encounters the case of he their use of the center. They also 
go and visit residents to encourage 
Taylor said, "Logic would tell elderly widow on a fixed income gather information on the people's 
you that four taverns is enough who can no longer afford decent 
in a two block area." Although housing.
needs so we can det.ePmne how to they were unsucessful in the
help them," Taylor stated Effect of Student Poplulation
tavern fight, Roos feels the council 
Arthur Quigley, president of the The student lifestyle also has an
has achieved much on a person-to
Northeast Neighborhood Council, effect on the neighborhood. "The
person basis. "It has opened
said, "The center also serves as a noise and the late parties are a
contacts and been very effective in 
prod to keep public agencies change and change is hard for the
serving the elderly," Roos said.
working for the people who need residents to accept," Taylor noted. 
The group meets the secondhelp." He described a case of one The taverns which serve theMonday of each month.
low-income woman whoose student population are also the
With a general physical im­
electricity had been turned off object of complaints by the
provement through the use of
because she was unable to pay the residents. 
bill. The woman had appparently federal funds and vigourous "The litter outside caused bycommunity effort on behalf of the received little coooperation from people leaving the taverns is reallyresidents by the neighborhoodthe city agency designed to handle a problem," Taylor said. Shecenter and the Northeast Neigh-such cases. 
added that her home, three blocks from a tavern, she had picked up several bushels of cups and other"The students can't care about litter at a time. 
Quigley and Taylor identified a basic difference between the
the neighborhood like we do." students and other residents. "The 
students can't care about the 
neighborhood the way we do. They 
borhood Council the area is one don't have a substantial time or 
Neighborhood Council Meets money invested in it." Quigley said.
old, urban neighborhood that has a 
The Northeast Neighborhood chance to survive. There is, 
Council is another group that however, a problem that is left Taylor noted, "The students are meets in the center. It is an open unresolved and cannot be not permanent residents and this organization that itself effects their attitude towards the
concerns alleviated by any action the center with any issue facing the residents. or the council might take. neighborhood." Taylor said. "Our attendance Because of its proximity to Notre Quigley pointed out that 
varies. When there is no big issue Dame, the northeast side has residents in a neighborhood watch few people attend but when the always had a number of students out for one another. "I know all the commmunity is facing somethin_g living there. Quigley, who has cars and all the people that belong crucial we can hardly fit all the lived in the neighborhood for to on my street. If there is a people in." thirty-two years, remembers, strange car or person I'm likely to 
The council serves as an "Twenty years ago we had stand at my window for awhile to identifiable voice of the people students living here." Many make sure everything is concerning community widows· rented rooms in their 1alright." 
problems. They most recently homes. Parent also noted this dif­worked to prevent. that opening of Quigley recalls, "The situation ference, "The studePts don't anothertavern in the area. Quigley was very different. The widow or exercise the protective element in said , "We really had no legal whoever had to sign an agreement a neighborhood. They don't act grounds to base our appeal on but with the university to report any like good neighbors." 
.. A fine Christmas gift fllr brother, sister, parent, or friend, which will be enjoyed by all and treasured for years to come. 
ONCE UPON A PARABLE: 
FABLES FOR THE PRESENT 
$6. 95. At the Notre Dame Bookstore 
This unique book of 80 fables, written and illustrated wl~b 52 cuts by Fr. Paul E. Beichner, is full of humor and charm. The fables are wry, witty, and amazingly modern, with morals having a punch-line effect. At· tractlvely printed in brown ink, it also has a woodcut of Father Hesburgh on the dedication page. 
Fr. Beichner, who was Dean of the Graduate School for 19 years is a professor Medieval Studies and Engllsh. A cut of his is the design for one of the CILA Christmas cards. 
AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

The failure of the students to become a part of the neighborhood has an effect on its ability to survive. "We must keep people with resources : financial, legal and analytical in these neigh­borhoods," Roos said, "or they won't survive. Young families don't want to put up witb the noise and litter and they will give up and move to the suburbs." 
Roos feels that if this happens the strength of the neighborhood will fail, leaving only the elderly and low-income people who do not have the resources to leave. Thus the second case-a young family that wishes to stay is forced to give up their dedication to the neigh­borhood because of the community breakdown. 

The students also have en­countered problems. The rising rate of burglary of student homes is the main cause of alarm. Roos pointed out, "Students are vulnerable to robbery because of 1their life-styles-they act as a magnet." 
Students homes are left empty during the dav. "This makes it 
easy for the burglars." Quigley explained. Parent noted, "Students are apt to own stereos, calculators and typewriters; all of these are eaasily stolen and easily sold." 

RESERVATIONS: 
284-4176 (Business Hours) 283-7054 1Show Nights) 
Student-Faculty ND'"8MC Staff $1.50
THEATRE 1974-75 Our Ninth Season 


·----....,-~-------­
A premiere production of this comedy-intrigue in the absurd manner bY NO graduate Christopher Ceraso. 
Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00P.M. Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

THE WAY 
WE WERE 
Starring 
BARBRA STREISAND ROBERT -REDFORD 
Engineering Auditorium 
Fri. Dec. 6 6:00 8:00 10:00 
Admission $1.00 
PATRONS FREE 
.­
l 
l l
4 

l• 
~ 

--------------------------------------~--~.--------­1 8 the observer Friday, December 6, 1974 
------~~~~~~~----­
~N-)
Blood drive is successful 
by Ken Girouard Starr Reporter 
Throughout this semester, a group of students have volunteered their time in order to organize a Blood Drive. Under the direction of Father David Schlaver, students from both Notre Dame and St. Mary's have set up a campus-wide program in which students donate a pint of blood to the South Bend Blood Bank. 
Every week, on Tuesday and Thursday, one dorm is chosen to participate in the program. Ap­proximately thirty people from each dorm are signed up to donate. 
On their assigned day, the volunteers are driven to the Blood Bank in South Bend during one of the five available time slots. The whole procedure takes up ap­proximately one hour of the donator's time. 
Colleen O'Rourke, student coordinator for the Blood Drive, explained the program. "We have four students acting as contacts. These contacts call the Community Service Commissioners in the various halls and tell them what day their hall is to donate. The commissioner then signs up the 30 volunteers and assigns them a time slot." 
The goal for the continuous drive has been set at approximately 40 
Exploding package kills UPS employee 
PITTSBURGH <UPI) -A small package, mailed from a neighboring state and misad­dressed, exploded in the arms of a United Parcel Service employe Thursday when he started to open it to learn its correct destination. 
The employe, John Metz, 38, was killed instantly. Eight coworkers were injured.
Police Lt. Ralph Pampena said the exolosion occurrP.cl shortly before-3 a.m. at a UPS warehouse in the city's North Side, only seconds after Metz and other employes noted jokingly, "It might be a bomb." 
Six of the injured were admitted to hospitals and reported in satisfactory condi­tion suffering from burns, cuts and shock. Two others were treated and released. 
UPS employes said the brown paper wrapped package, mea­suring 8 inches by 12 inches, was addressed to a motorcycle shop in "Falls Church, Pa." 
Ordinance is planned 
(continued from page 18) 
The amendment will be in­troduced to the Common Council by Roger Parent, councilman for the Harter Heights area. He commeted, "I'm not sure this ordinance is the answer to the problem but these people have to fight. If they don't do s_omething, the neighborhood will go downhill." 
He stated that the group expects to have the amendment ready in two or three weeks. "I will probably wait until after Notre Dame returns for Christmas vacation to introduce it and hold some public hearings on it to allow all sides to be presented," Parent added. 
He explained that this would not only affect students but landlords as well. "I expect that a lot of controversy will arise over this issue. It will affect the rest of the city and the landlords." 
THINK ... CO.LEGE LIFE 
JNSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA 
•-~-•
Cinema• • 
PRESENTS 

Also starring Gene Wilder and Dick Shawn 
Tuesday and Wednesday December 10 and II Engineering Auditorium 8 and 10 pm Admission 1.00 PATRONS FREE 
pints a week from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. According to , O'Rourke, they have come· close to 
SMC achieving this goal. "So far," she said, "its been pretty successful. 
THEATRE
We've come pretty close to our 40­pint goal and for most of the 
for 

semester, we've been just getting 
_. YOUNG .PEOPLE
the mechanics of the operation
down." 
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST
O'Rourke expressed the hope that the program could be ex­
A New Drama for Young People Based on panded next semester. "We are 
the Beloved Fairy Tale 
also thinking about setting up a station here on campus, possibly in 
December 7, 8, 14,15 at 2:00P.M. a room in the Infirmary," she 
O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
added. "But that is just an idea at this point." 
A CHRISTMAS PRAYER FOR NOTRE DAME  
 A CHRISTMAS PRAYER FOR OUR WORLD  
I'l'  WAS  A  QUIET  Fran DAY-IN  De Marko says: NAZARETH-FOR  MARY  UNTIL  SHE  

LOOKED UP AT THE VISION OF ANGEL GABRIEL"FEAR NOT,­
BLESSED MARY-HE SAID-YOU SHALL HAVE A SON AND HIS 
NAME WILL BE JESUS-AND OF HIS KINGDOM-NO END .. " 
SAID MARY TO GABRIEL "I AM NOT YET MARRIED-BUT I WILL 
MARRY JOSEPH-A CARPENTER. HOW THEN CAN MY SON BE 
KING?" 
GABRIEL SAID "THE HOLY GHOST WILL BE WITH YOU .. THE 
POWER OF GOD WILL COVER YOU. THEREFORE THE HOLY 
CHILD WILL BE CALLED THE SON OF GOD-AND WITH GOD 
NOTHING IS IMPOSSIBLE 
so 

LET US WALK CLOSE TO GOD. LET US AT NOTRE DAME OFFER 
OUR PRAYERS AND BLESSINGS TO GUIDE THE WAY OF OUR 
BELOVED PRESIDENT 
OF NOTRE DAME REV. THEODORE M.HESBURGH 
AS HE REPRESENTS US IN OUR COUNTERATTACK ON 
WORLD HUNGER LET US UNDERSTAND ONE FACT. SHEER LUCK DID NOT PRODUCE OUR IMMENSELY SUCCESSFUL AMERICAN AGRICULTURAL MIRACLE. THE SOIL ON THE 'SOCIALISTIC­FOOD-PRODUCING-SYSTEM' LAND IS THE SAME AS OURS. AS TILLABLE AND FERTILE AS AMERICAN SOIL .. 
WHERE THEN LIES THE DIFFERENCE? THE DIFFERENCE LIES IN THESE WORDS. A SYSTEM THAT WORKS-PLUS HARD WORKS AND PRAYERS FOR WHEN WE PRAY 
NOTHING IS IMPOSSIBLE TWOHUNDREDYEARS.AGO-ATINY BAND OFSETTLERSPRAYED FOR A GOOD HARVEST-AND THEIR PRAYERS WERE ANSWERED TWO HUNDRED YEARS-AND TWO HUNDRED MILLION SETTLERS LATER-OUR AMERICAN FARMERS DROPPED TO THEIR KNEES AND PRAYED FOR A GOOD HARVEST. THE RESULT-OUR TREMENDOUSLY BOUNTIFUL 'GOLDEN GRAIN MIRACLE'. 
YES, DEAR WORLD-OUR 'GOLDEN GRAIN MIRACLE' POINTS UP ONE FACT. OUR TRUE AMERICAN SETTLER-OUR FARMER CONTROLS THE THIN LINE BETWEEN SURVIVAL OF OUR HUMAN RACE-OR WORLD STARVATION. TRUE! THINK! THEY TILL OUR SOIL-FEED OUR CATTLE-RAISE OUR POULTRY-RUN THE TRACTORS WITH 'ROB PETER TO PAY PAUL' FINANCING-HAVE WALKED MANY .MILES TO CHURCH-AND YET-CAN STILL HAR­VEST MILLIONS OF TONS OF GOLDEN GRAIN. STARTED FROM SCRATCH. LATER BECAME PART OF A TEAM-CALLED UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A TRULY REMARKABLE SYSTEM. AND DEAR WORLD-WE DO NOT INTEND TO EVER BITE THE HANDS THAT FEED US .. I MIGHT ADD THAT IF OUR AMERICAN FARMER DECIDES HE'S HAD IT-THEN-WORLD-WE'VE HAD IT TOO! 
HOWEVER-WE INTEND TO TRULY APPRECIATE THE GREAT ROLE OUR AMERICAN FARMER PLAYS IN OUR WORLD. WE WILL DROP TO OUR KNEES ALSO-AND JOIN HIM IN PRAYER. WE WILL CONTINUE TO REAP THE 'GOLDEN GRAIN' MIRACLE HARVESTS. WE WILL CONTINUE TO EXTEND OUR LOVING AND GENEROUS HANDS·AS ALWAYS-OUT TO YOU-LOADED WITH COUNTLESS BLESSINGS WHETHER IT BE FOOD-MONEY-OR WHATEVER. BECAUSE YOU ALWAYS HAVE-AND ALWAYS WILL BE A PART OF US.. WE LOVE YOU. 
MERRY CHRISTMAS WORLD! ! 
TO MY STUDENTS AT NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
MY FACULTY 'STUDENTS'-STAFF-AND FRIENDS, SEE YOU NEXT SEMESTER NOTRE DAME INSTRUCTRESS FRAN DE MARKO 

RESERVATIONS 284·4176 
ALL SEATS $.75 

----~ --------------------­In cover-up trial 
Sirica denies requests 
WASHINGTON (UPI) questions in his home, saying Judge John J. Sirica Wednes­"Mr. Nixon's testimony is not day denied defense requests to essential" to ensure that justice take Richard M. Nixon's is done. 
testimony in the Watergate The decision overruled the cover-up trial in any form request of defendants John D. despite arguments it was Ehrlichman, H.R. Haldeman necessary for a fair trial. Sirica and John N. Mitchell that they said Nixon's testimony was at least be allowed to take "not essential" for justice. Nixon's testimony by deposition 
Sirica ordered the trial of five at a court near his San former Nixon aides to proceed Clemente, Calif., home. without interruption, meaning it "The witness is simply will likely be completed by unavailable to be deposed," Christmas. Sirica said. "The court will not 
In summary, Sirica said the issue an order to take the ailing Nixon's testimony would deposition of Mr. Nixon while it merely duplicate that available appears that he is so ill that the from other witnesses and would taking of such a deposition 
have to be viewed "with could seriously joepardize his caution" since he has been health. 
declared an unindicted accom­"Nor will the court issue an plice of the defendants. order granting leave to take 
He ruled out even the such depositions on Jan. 6," he possibility that Nixon might be said, eliminating possibilities of required to answer written a holiday adjournment of the trial which was in its 48th dayWednesday. 
A court-appointed medical team that examined the phlebi­tis-stricken Nixon had said he would be sufficiently recovered by Jan. 6 to give a deposition, ' which is a response to \ attorneys questions taken out­side the trial court and sent ' there as evidence. Shortly before Sirica announced his ruling however, Nixon's attor­ney said he could not be adequately prepared to supply a depostion until well after Jan. 
6. 
Ehrlichman, formerly Nixon's No. 2 aide at the White House, had argued Nixon's testimony was indispensable to his de­fense to show he was unaware of some Watergate decisions allegedly made by Nixon and Haldeman. Sirica flatly reject­
ed this argument. 
InPIRG conducts grocery poll 
The Indiana Public Interest Research Group at Notre Dame UnPIRG) released their second grocery pricing survey results today. The survey indicates that there was a 6.8 percent difference in prices between the most expensive store, which was Kroger's on Ireland Road, and the least expensive store, which was Kroger's on St. Rd. 23. The first survey had found a 2.4 percent difference in prices between the most expensive store, which had also been Kroger's on Ireland Road, and the least ex­pensive store, Thrif-T-Mart on U:S. 31 North. 
The survey was analyzed on a computer program designed by InPIRG staff member, Jim Wilmes. The actual survey work was done by five members of the Ladies of Notre Dame: Mrs. Brigid Dutile, Mrs. Barbara Jemielity, Mrs. Margaret Kenny, Mrs. Jeanne Krier, Mrs. Mary Rathburn; and six InPIRG workers: Wilmes, Frank Piccione, John Aydrinian, Michael and Sandy Snider, and project coordinator Blaise Mercadante. 
Cereals &  
Store  Meats  Bakery  
Kroger's, 18337 St.  Rd.  we  12.94  5.46  
Thrift-T-Mart, Hickor y Rd.  13.83  5.22  
Van Buren's  13.67  5.70  
Thrif-T-Mart, U.S. 31  N.  13.49  5.65  
Thrif-T-Mart, Ireland  Rd.  13.69  5.64  
A&P, Eddy St.  12.42  5.67  
Kroger's,  Btoadmore  Plaza  15.22  5.71  
Cira's  14.01  5.79  
Martin's  13.41  5.62  
Wilt's,  Ironwood Rd.  14.76  5.70  
National  Food Store  13.51  5.71  
Kroger's, Ireland  15.28  5.44  

Mercadante announced that the next Grocery Pricing Survey will be released the middle of January. The coordinator encourages persons interested in assisting on the survey to contact him at the lnPIRG office-283-6413 or at home-288-8489. 
Dairy  Fruits &  Other  
Products  Vegetables  Foods  Total  
4.72  9.52  5.79  38.44  
4.79  9.44  5.26  38.53  
4.79  9.74  5.12  39.02  
4.73  9.92  !1.65  39.45  
4.73  9.89  5.53  39.48  
4.96  10.94  5.85  39.83  
4.86  9.53  5.27  40.59  
4.69  11.12  5.30  40.91  
5.71  10.63  5.72  41.10  
4.77  10.05  5.86  41.13  
4.89  11.29  5.78  41.17  
5.09  10.11  5.34  41.25  

Novotny lund announced for engineering students 
A scholarship fund for engineering students at the University of Notre Dame has been established at the request of Nanette Trisler Novotny, widow of Dr. Jerome L. Novotny, former professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at Notre Dame. Dr. Novotny died Nov. 14 after a brief illness. 
The fund, established in 
recognition of Dr. Novotny's 
contributions in heat transfer 
research and his interest in 
mechanical engineering 
education, will provide scholar­
ships for deserving engineering 
students interested in pursuing 
university teaching and research. 
The 40-year-old specialist in heat 
transfer research and ther­
modynamics had taught at the 
University since 1965. A native of 
~················~ 
~ MERRY ~ i CHRISTMAS: 
~ from ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ROCCO'S ~ 
. ~ ~. .. 
• 537 W. St. Louis Blvd. : -fl (Good Luck on Final Exams) ic 
.. 
~······¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 
St. Paul, he received his un­dergraduate and graduate degrees from the University of Minnesota and spent five years there as an instructor and research fellow. 
In addition to his widow sur­vivors include two children', Jef­frey and Kristen, and his father, Roy H. Novotny. 
Contributions payable to the Dr. Jerome L. Novotny Memorial Fund, University of Notre Dame,may be sent in care of Prof. 
K. T. Yang, College of Engineering, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
ENTERTAINMENT NIGHTI.Y (Except Tuesday) 
1g'(\\g\\'C 
"RED PONEY" 
Tht W~tte H~tu,.n 

"The House of Rock" VVEDS.--DRINK & DROW\1 THURS --PITCHER BEER NITE 
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 51 
Friday, December 6, 1974 the observer 1 9 

MOCK STOCK MARKET 
WILL BEGIN IN FEBRUARY 
START WATCHING YOUR FAVORITE STOCKS NOW PRESENTED BY THE FINANCE CLUB 
1 
I 

MERRY CHRISTMAS 
to you and yours... 

from 

"SAINT NICK" and 
NICKlE'S 
.. 

-----~-----------­
Friday, December 6, 1974
2 0 the observer 
=--.=--­
Controversy surrounds taking towers for conversion to female dormitories 
(continued from page 1) 
There are, however, the students that believe that the proposal should go through. "I think they should give the girls the Tower and move the grad students staying at Lewis Hall off campus," com­mented freshman Liz Dumelle. 
"Lack of student interest and possibly lack of student knowledge has made tne student take the attitude of 'they can take Grace wr Flanner), as long as they don't touch my room.' " said Mike Sheehan. "What difference does it make if either is sent to Farley. It's the people that make up the hall, not the buildings. The hall is what you make of it," added 
Sheehan. · 
"I think the University should let the decision rest for a year and in that year, investigate the problem completely so as to find a solutio.n because the girls aren't here yet," said Denis Sullivan, SLC representative. 
A great deal of students feel that the release of these orooosals were 
SMC history dept. plans overseassummer program 
by Ken Girouard 
Staff Reporter 
The St. Mary's Department of History has announced that it is organizing a summer study program in Europe. The program, which runs from May 20 to June 2oth, will include stops in Paris, London, fEdinborough and parts of Ireland. 
According to Brother Bernard Danahoe, acting chairman of the History Department, exact details of the summer session have not yet been decided upon. "The cirriculum," he said, "is still up in the air. It will probably include, though, credits in English history, histories of the European cities we visit, and the British arts." 
There will be no central base of operation for the trip. "This program is not being run in cooperation with any European school," Danahoe said. "Therefore, we will only rent classroom space in the various cities we are in." 
Students in the program will stay in hotels and some of the lectures will take place in the hotel facilities. 
The price for the summer session stil has not been decided upon. Danahoe noted that, "The last figure quoted, which was sometime last year, was $865 plus tuition. Of course, there has been increases in air fare and possibly hotel rates since then." 
The European study program is open to both St. Mary's and Notre Dame students, as well as any college students in the South Bend areas. Interested students should sign up in Brother Danahoe's office in 345 Madeleva Hall at St. Mary's. A $50 deposit will be required. 
badly timed. A great deal more feel that the University always seems to make decisions when the finals are being given or over the breaks. They feel that the University never lets the students know what is going on until the decision is ma_~P.. 
Although it is a 1proposal, the students are pressing for a per­manent solution to the problem. They do not want this problem to arise again next year. 
"We _need a solution to the problem now. We can't afford temporary decisions because the problem will never be solved. Everyone that wants on-campus housing should have it," concluded McGuire. 
Student reactions 
(continued from page 9) 
residential  atmosphere of  the  
university~  
Solutions  other  than  an  off  

campus lottery and a a new dorm for women were projected through the survey. Nancy Meier of Lyons suggested the university contract with apartment builders to provide housing on or close to campus. She proposed 'if the university doesn't have the money itself to build housing, it ought to encourage private enterprises to do it." 
Another suggestion encountered several times was the serious proposal of COED dorms as a solution. This, one woman ad­vance, could be · arranged by dividing up the residence into women's and men's sections. This would avoid problems while letting both sexes live under one roof. 
An alternative supported by one Farley woman called for the 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS \'VITHOUT WHEELS? When In Neecl Of A Quick Getaway, Call Lois At JORDAN
JORDAN FORD 
FORD

259-1981 
STUDENT RATES: Rent A ·PINTO For Just 
$ 6/Day & SIMile (MIN. AGE 2JJ 
609 E. JeHerson, Mishawaka 


"THE NAZZ" 
LAST WEEKEND BUZZ for THIS SEMESTER 
FRI. 10-1 PM 

*Denis Klee *Jack Kelleher 
SAT. 10-l PM 

*Paul Weddle *Lone Star *Rich Spangler


Bicycle storage available 
• h 
campus
throughOUt Wlnter mont S under~ra.duates be compelled to 
A winter bike storage program is being prepared by the Om­budsman Service, Ombudsman Director Bill McLean announced yesterday. 
The program, which will be headed by John Creamer and Charlie Moran wil accept bikes for storage Dec. 9 to 11 (next Monday through Wednesday) from 12:00­
I r 
4:30 p.m. There is a possibility the hours will be extended to 6:00p.m. 
Bikes may be brought to Gate 14 of the stadium and there will be a 
face similar conseauences. 
cost of $1.50 for storing FF~;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;=========~=======================~
unregistered bikes. Proof of registration with Notre Dame Security or with South Bend will be required to take advantage of the 25 cent rate and those persons wishing to register their bikes may do so at the drop-<1ff point at a cost of 1.00. 
Students may pick up their bikes in late March or early April, depending upon the weather and student demand. Both on and off­campus students are welcome to make use of the program. 
transferral of graduate students to off residences before 
Basement of Lafortune 
If you're one of tomorrow's physicians, there are some things you should know today. 

t 
I 
1., 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS I 
WE'LL BE WAITING FOR YOUR SAFE RETURN IN JANUARY 
' \ .... J. tJ j ..... ,''. 


For instance. You should know about the op­portunities offered by Armed Forces Health Care. As an officer in the service of your choice you'll work in modern facilities. With up-to-date equipment. And modern, up-to­date professionals in every area of Health Care. 
For example. You should know that Armed Forces Health Care offers opportuni­ties for initial training and advanced study in practically every specialty. Not to mention the opportunity to practice it. 
You should know, too, that we make it possible for you to pursue a post-residency fellowship at either military or civilian insti­tutions. 
And if all this strikes a spark, then you should certainly know about our scholarship program. 
If you qualify, the tuition for your medi­cal education will be covered fully while you participate in the program. And during that time you'll receive a good monthly stipend. 
Just one more thing ... we think if you know all the facts, today, you may want to be one of us tomorrow. 
Find out. Send in the coupon and get the facts ... today. 
There are limited openings for academic year 1975·1976. 
r"A;;;dr;~;&;;;;~~hiP;-------;_;:2;-,, 
P.O. BoxAF Peoria, ill. 61614 
I desire information for the following program: Army RNavy 0 Air Force 0 Medical 0 Denta 0 Veterinary' 0 Podiatry C Optometry 0 
Psychology (PhD) 0 Name:___--:-(p..,.,.lea_se_p~rin_ll_____ Soc. Sec. # ______Phone___ 
Address,___________ 
City·-,-----------­State:________Zip•..:..·___ 
Enrolled at:--~~(sc...,..ho-,ol::-)----­
·To graduate int--:-:(m.,-on""th,-)--,(y-ea"'"'r)--:-(d,-eg-ree-:-)­Date of birth•---,--,-.,-------­
(month) (day) .(year)

•veterinary not av:.ilable in Navy Program. 
~----------~------------~ 
Armed Fore.. Health Care Dedicated to Medicine and tile people who practice it. 
• ll • • ••~ ··• ...... :' 1' .. I I • l .... "' "' '-' ' " ll .. <II ,.. '" • •' •' ..... •' "·" ,· 
L_______________________________________________________ --­
Friday, December 6, 1974 the observer 2 1 .. 
Irish cagers await Yuletide trip 
(continued from page 23) 
Down in Louisville, the Irish will face basically the same team they beat last year. Senior Kevin Grevey, leading scorer in the SEC (21.9), heads the returnees with Jimmy Dan Conner (12.0), Bob Guyette (12.7), and Mike Flynn ~11.5). Two promising freshmen might pose more height problems for Phelps. 
Butler should afford the Irish a 
mild rest before the New Year with 
an inexperienced team. The 
January 4 matchup with Maryland should be anything but peaceful however. 
The Terrapins minus Tom McMillen, Len Elmore, and yes Moses Malone (describing Lefty Driesell's parting words: "He hope I do good.") will be good enough. They will use Driesell's double post offense with 6-9 Tom Roy, and 6-8 Owen Brown. Maryland's stellar guards John Lucas and Moe Howard will move the ball. 
Against Davidson, Notre Dame makes its southern-most ap­pearance of the year on January 8. 
The Wildcats, one of the most Larry (Swan) Herron should be the accurate teams in the nation last chief obstacle. season, take their case to Pittsburgh will not be up to Charlotte, North Carolina after a another 22-game win streak this shootout a year ago in South Bend. year, but could give Notre Dame Providing the fireworks again will trouble. The January 13 game in be 6-5 Greg Dunn, 6-1 Jay Powell, the Civic Center will rematch Irish 6-7 Larry Horowitz, and 6-9 guard Dwight Clay with high Sheldon Parker. school rivals s-o Tom Richards, 6-4 
Anybody at the Palestra is 1 Kirk Bruce, and 6-8 Jim Bolla. tough, and the Irish will ~eta taste Junior Keith Starr and 6-6 walk on of Philadelphia's brotherly love Willie Kelly will help on the when they face Villanova there boards. January 11. The Wildctas will once After their month on the road, again go the youth route after 't the Irish can look forward to school starting four freshmen in 1973. 6-8 and revenge-minded Marquette. 
Greg Corgan 

' 
The Irish Eye 
a&~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bowlpicks 
The greatest Christmas gift the NCAA could give college football fans 
would be a system designed to find out, once and for all, which team is 
number one in the nation. 
If this body of sports administrators wasn't so cost conscious and 
• consequently money hungry, which in this day and age may admittedly become the basis for survival, it would use the various post-season bowl games to develop a college football playoff system. This would be desirable for two reasons. First of all, the national champ would no longer by mythical. Secondly, all bowls would benefit from having first class teams and therefore first class ga~s. This in turn would not only guarantee each bow a rather handsome profit, but would mean more cash for the competing schools. On top of that games like Oklahoma State (5-6) against Brigham Young and Nebraska (8-3) versus Florida (8-3) would be eliminated. 
Nonetheless, the Irish Eye will conclude its 1974 season of college picks with these special bowl game prognostications. And like the Crimson Tide who seek revenge against the Irish this year and Southern Cal who look to reverse last year's Rose Bowl score against the Buckeyes, this will also be a vengeful attempt to finally beat Peggy Lawlor. 

The Liberty Bowl, TennesseeandMarylandat Memphis, Dec. 16: The Pitt Panthers should have been in this game against the Terrapins from UM. But the Volunteers pretty handily defeated much improved Ken­tucky to get into the game, so the outcome should prove interesting. From here, Maryland by 7. Lawlor: Tennessee by 10. 
The Tangerine Bowl, Miami (Ohio> and Georgia at Orlando, Dec. 21: Miami's Redskins ought to venture outside their league more often. They did play Purdue this season, but that game ended in a 14-14 tie. This one with the Georgia Bulldogs should tell a lot abou t whether or not Miami should play with the big boys. They should pass the test. Miami by 6. Lawlor: Georgia by 3. 
The Astro-Bluebonnet Bowl, North Carolina State and Houston at Houston, Dec. 21: This is a pretty nothing game since for some reason the Cougars seem to get a bye into this contest every year. The Wolfpack was impressive in its final two games of the seasonbeating Arizona State and dumping Cotton Bowl bound Penn State. NC-8tate should do the same to 
Houston . State by 14. Lawlor: NC-8tate. The Peach Bowl, Vanderbilt and Texas Tech, at Atlanta, Dec. 28: Vandy probably got into this one because it's south of the Mason-Dixon line. The Red Raiders are more than a worthy opponent and should make Vanderbilt wish it had stuck to basketball. Tech by 14. Lawlor: Van­derbilt by "a little bit." 
SEASON'S GREETINGS 
from 

STOP IN BEFORE YOUR 
The Sun Bowl, Mississippi State and North Carolina at El Paso, Dec. 28: The worst place to have to go for the holidays is undoubtedly El Paso, Texas. At least there won't be any distractions, but then again, Juarez is only a couple of minutes away. But back to the game. Mississippi State by 9. Lawlor: North Carolina by 6. 
The Fiesta Bowl, Oklahoma State and Brigham Young at Tempe, Arizo!l, _D~c. 2~: This game is embarrassing OSU is below .500, although BYU 1s m 1ts f1rst bowl ever and is led by the best passing quarterback in the nation, Gary Sheide. It would be nice to see Brigham Young win. BYU by 10. Lawlor: BYU by 7. 
The Sugar Bowl, Nebraska and Florida at New Orleans, Dec. 31: This is a letdown after last season's spectacular. and nobody really cares about it. Nebraska ought to clobber the Gators. Cornhuskers by 20. Lawlor: Nebraska by 10. 
The Cotton Bowl, Penn State and Baylor at Dallas, Jan. 1: The Baylor Bears aren't going to blow their only bowl appearance in eons. Texans won't let them. Baylor by 7. Lawlor: Baylor by 6. 
The Gator Bowl, Auburn and Texas at Jacksonville, Dec. 30: The Auburn War Eagles, as they are now known, are one of the best teams in the country. The only thing that Daddy D. Royal doesn't like to lose anytime. Auburn by 7. Lawlor: Auburn by 10. ' 
The Rose Bowl, Ohio State and Southern Cal at Pasadena, Jan. 1: The Trojans have looked unbeatable of late, Ara will admit to that. The Buckeyes are, by no means, an easy team to beat and Bo Schembechler will admit to that. Whether Woody Hayes admits that Anthony Davis is better than Archie Griffin or John McKay admits Griffin is better than Davis remains to be seen. But neither McKay nor Hayes admits much of 
anything. USC by 4. Lawlor: Ohio State by 7. 
AI McGuire's Warriors will host 
N~_:~tre Dame January 18 in 
M1l~aukee where Clay ruined 
the1r 81 home win streak two years 
ago. The Irish are home January 
25 against Holy Cross and the 26th 
with old-favorite UCLA. 
By that time, Digger should be 
bringing at least a change of 
underwear. 
~Skaters look to holidays 
(continued from page 22) 

Boston College and Harvard at 
their Eastern rivals home ice. 
Though the two games December 
22 and 23 do not count for points in 
the WCHA standings, Harvard and 
BC will provide as tough a com­
petition as any team could want on 
1eir "rest" games. 
"Harvard and Boston College may not give us the pressure of getting good playoff spots, but they are two of the best teams in the ECAC,'' noted Smith. "We always have the intention of eliminating mistakes and striving for more cohesion in our game." 
"These next four games against Michigan and Michigan Tech are extremely important," explained Smith. "We have the home ice advantage which always helps when your fans get behind you and really whoop it up." 
"I very definitely feel that our team is a club to watch in the second half of the season," added Coach Smith, now in his seventh year as ND head coach. "If our kids give us the total team per­formance I saw last weekend, Notre Dame will be a team to reckon with in the second half of the year." 
The four home games, two this weekend against Michigan and the two next weekend against Tech, are scheduled to start at 7:30 both Fridayand Saturday nights. Notre Dame, as any hockey team, needs vocal fans for emotional charge ·. and the more the merrier. 
2 2 the observer Friday, December 6, 1974 
Irish premiere in holiday on ice 

by Bob Kissel Novitski-Dave Bossey, and Dick 
Howe-Dane Byers eimbine good 
It may be the Christmas season physical checking and the for most of Notre Dame, but for stickhandling necessary to break hockey coach Lefty Smith the next out on offense. six games on the schedule are What more need be said about certainly not gifts. In succesive goaltenders Len Moher and John weekends, the Fighting Irish take Peterson? The game of hockey on the Michigan Wolverines and begins in goal and works out. Both the Michigan Tech Huskies at freshmen netminders give Coach home, Harvard and Boston College Smith the confidence he looks for, on the road. enabling the Irish offensive attack 
The Irish, despite a misleading 4-to open up and take more chances. 5-l WCHA conference record (8th Many of the best players in the place) are definitely a team which league know only too well the 
is coming -and coming strong. seemingly impossible saves that "I believe Saturday's game (4-4 Peterson and Moher come up with tie l against Michigan State was time and time again. the best hockey we have played," Coach Dan Farrell's Michigan commented Coach Smith. "What 
Wolverines have won their last pleased me most about the per­four games in WCHA action, 
sweeping league-leading (untilformance was that the kids went at they played Michigan) ColoradoState from thestart, right on into 
College and perennial powerhouse The Irish will attempt to overpower 
their &-game Christmasthe overtime." 

Michigan Tech. Schedule with Michigan, Michigan"The guys are playing to~ether Farrell, in only his second t.he Irish icers must prepare forat the point where we don't have to 
run and hide from anyone in the season at the helm, brings a team another tough two game series to South Bend which has been December 14 and 15 against
league, despite our youth," added 
playing together for the better part Michigan Tech. Coach JohnSmith. "State definitely was of three seasons. The Wolverines Macinnes always brings a well­fighting for their lives the whole 
game and on their home ice too." combine .the ingredients of a coached Huskie team to the ACC, winr"r, skill, experience, and heavy on the skating aspect of
Offensively Lefty Smith has to smile about the Brian Walsh depth. the game. centered line with wings Alex Goal figured to be Farrell•s forte The Huskies are strongest up the Pirus and Clark Hamilton. In the this season. Before league com· · middle, with the leading two last four games this line has ac­petition even started, All-scorers on last year's league counted for 12·of the last 15 goals American goalie Robbie Moore · winningteam, Mike Zuke and Bob scored. If it's not Walsh scoring on underwent knee surgery, leaving a D'Alvise returning. Zuke and his quick-draw bullets, then it's large gap to fill. Moore's spot has D'Alvise have continued their hot Hamilton or Pirus unloading their more than adequately been filled scoringthough, pacing their club boomers on the man in the nets. by freshman Frank Zimmerman. with 26 points between them after 
Pat Conroy has the job of cen­Zimmerman, a native of Edina, only eight games. tering two big, green rookies, Don Minnesota, was the top goaltender On defense the Huskies have Jackson and Kevin Nugent. last season in the Minnesota Junior depth with veterans Bruce Abbey, "Offensively our line is in a bit of a League and this year is in the thick Paul Jensen, and Bob Lorimer. slump, but we'll come out it soon," of the WCHA goal tending race. Goaltender ' Jim Warden's per-noted alternate captain Conroy. Angie Moreto and Don Fardig, formances have been very "Part of the situation is that both both juniors and the top two pleasing to Macinnes, as the junior Don and Kev as freshmen are scorers last season, return at from Altadena, California turned learning that the WCHA style of center. Fardig and Moretto had a aside 77 shots in Tech's sweep of hockey demands thinking defense total of 82 points between them in North Dakota last weekend. both ways, an adjustment which league action. On the wings "Tech presents problems to all takes time." veterans like Doug Lindskog, Pat their opponents, because of their 
Though Allen Karsnia and Tim Hughes, and Gary Kardos have good physical game and tight Byers may be noted for their been scoring in crucial spots. defensive coverage," said former penalty-killing duties, these two Michigan's defensive corps are blueliner Smith. "The two games wings along with center Mark led by captain and senior Randy will be very tough with their good Olive constitute Lefty's version of Trudeau. Trudeau will assuredly skating and shooting skills." a scooter line. This scooter line make the trip to ND, as he has not The Irish close out the first half has good quickness and speed in missed a game in two years. of the '74-'75 season with a pair of skating and the type of peskiness Trudeau is joined by juniors Tom non-conference games against on the forecheck and backcheck Lindskog and Greg Fox. (continued to page 21) 
which leads to defensive turnovers and Irish goals. "Michigan looks likethey've put 
At the blueline on defense, Coach their game together this early in Smith has achieved the necessary the season," remarked Coach balance which he looks for in all Smith. "They looks to be the elements in his game. The pairs of number one or two team in the Les Larson-Paul Clarke, Roger countryright now." Bourque-Jack Brownschidle, Pat After the Wolverines leave town, 
i• MERRY CHRISTMAS i• 
: and : 
: .'. 
: HAPPY NEW YEAR : . • f . • 
: rom your ! i• SENIOR i i CLUR ! 
The Notre Dame Club of Miami Cordially invites you to 
A NEW YEAR'S DAY MASS, PREGAME BRUNCH AND RALLY 
Deauville Hotel, 6701 Collins Ave., Miami Beach Mass . 2:00 P.M. · Brunch and Rally -· (immediately following) 
ROUND TRIP BUS TRANSPORTATION TO ORANGE BOWL 
(Space limited . Reservations required) $6.50 per person Mail check to Bob Probst 2500 S.W. 3rd Ave., Miami Beach, Fl. 33129 

Official Headquarters for Notre Dame Alumni and Guests 
attending Orange Bowl '75 
NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION HOSPITALITY SUITE Dec;tuville Hotel, 6701 Collins Avenue, Miami Beach 
lntormatton C'Pnter ·Special Guests. Football Films. Cash Bar !Mon.) Dec. 30-12:00 Noon -10:00 P.M. !Tue.) Dec. 31-iO:OO A.M. -lo:OO P.M. 
(Wed.) Jan. I· 10:00 A.M.. 2:00P.M. 
We have lhem in great selection...sleeveless,
i REGULAR HOURS .i v-necks, shawl collars and many more in a good choice of colors and fabrics. Slop by.
i THIS_ WEEKEND ,! 
Vests from $6.50
-! NEXT WEEK -WE'RE ii : OPEN ON :: !• WEDNESDAYONLY, : • 
... 0 N THE CAMPUS
: FROM 8:00-1:00 :! AFTER WEDNESDAY, WE'LL BEE NOTRE DAME 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••:l--~==~=~===~-----------~
: CLOSEDUNTILJANUARY 
.. 

Cagers approach Cli'iiSt'inaSeoi:"OeU; 
· 

by Pete McHugh Saturday December 21. Mter 
The big question Wednesday Christmas, Phelps will pick up night in Notre Dame's basketball what's ever left for a December 28 home opener was not how many matchup against Kentucky. A students bought tickets or how repose of sorts closes the month many points Adrian Dantley had, with a December 30 contest with but what in the name of Gilbert's Butler in Indianapolis. was Digger doing wearing a plain­January offers no breathers with old, conservative, unflashy, away dates with Maryland, definitely not right-on, blue suit. Davidson, Villanova, and Pitt­
If one were to gleam some sburgh. Highlighting the cross­symbolism from Phelps atypical country tout will be visits, not attire, it might be that his gonzo necessarily cordial, to Los outfits oflast year are biding their Angeles' Pauley Pavilion, time in his closet until Notre Louisville's Freedom Hall, Dame's resurgence to basketball's Maryland's Capital .center hierarchy. Anyway you look at it, AND Philadelphia's Palestra. however, it is obviuos that Phelps No matter how Notre Dame fairs has a lot more than his wardrobe to the next month, the cagers will 
worry about this year. With thr.ee besure to have faced the best in the upcoming home games and a . nation. The crucial ten game slate seven game "vacation" sched\lle features national contenders from on the road, the Irish head, coach the Big Eight, Big Ten, PAC Eight, might as well try a hairshirt for. all ACC, and . SEC conferences. the comfort in store for him. ·Princeton, a darkhorse in the Ivy 
First of all, his Irish f~~;ce League, Southern Conference Princeton Saturday afternoon in' runner-up Davidson, and in­the ACC. Next week, the youthful dependents Butler, Villanova, and cagers entertain seventh-ranked Pittsburgh should also pose Kansas and third-ranked Indiana problems. in Monday and Wednesday night" ·Individually, the various op­encounters. And then, after a week ponents will · test Phelps' small of final exams and much ~· front line and a defense which has packing, it's off to the West Coast, yielded 80 and 84 points respec­the East Coast, and truck stops·in tively to lesser lights Valparasio between as Notre Dame embarks. ·and Northwestern this year. on a ridiculously tough . holidaY. Saturday's opponent Princeton schedule. will be one of the least of his 
The Irish open their tr~vels QD worries. The Tigers start a 6-7, 6-5, national television. against 6-4, front wall topped by center perenially superhuman UCLA on . Barnes Haupfuhrer (10.3). 
"!~-.._, ----.--j~--.....~ -~--~,.,._._...,.__.,._..~ ....................~­
··{~ 
WANTED 
Need ride to wash. D.C. area. Dec. 18th. Ruth ~997 
Ride available to Orange Bowl leaving Dec. 27th 283-8576.
Need 3 Orange Bowl Tix, Call Bart. 277-0056. 
Books and calendars are great Christmas gifts. All used books till1 need 2 or 4 adjacent $8.50 Orange Sun. or TWO FOR ONE. SomeBowl tickets. Call Marcy at the new books reduced. Gift cer­Observer at 7471 from 9:00-5:00. 
tificates available. Pandoras Books.
Need ride vicinity Dallas­Christmas. Willing to share$$ and 
Sell your tixs and paper backs for
driving. Cathy 1332. 
cash or credit. 2:30-3:30 at Pan­doras Books.
We are looking for men and women over 18 who enjoy the outdoors to 
Overseas Jobs-Australia, Europe.
deliver the Penny Saver on 
Professions and occupations $700Wednesdays. Must have tran­to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid,sportation. Apply in person Thurs. 
overtime sightseeing. Free in­or Fri. from 9-6 at 52027 U.S. 31 formation. Trans-World Research
North (across from Pagoda 
Co. Deps f3, P.0. Box 603, CorteGardens Restaurant) or call 272­MaderaCA. 949251688 tor appointment. 
Knights of Columbus: Fr. Griffin will say Mass at 10pm. Sunday at the K.of C. Afterwards we will6 Bowl Tix No scalpers, Deb or · 
decorate our tree and sing
Jean 7850 Christmas Carols. Refreshments will also be server.
Need ride to Connecticut for Xmas· Break. Can leave 19th. Will share 
Christmas Stereo Specials at 
expenses. Call Dave 8917. 
Golden Dome Records-804 Flan­ner. Phone 1487· Great Buys on allDesperately need six Orange Bowl LINES + Pioneer SX1010 ListTix. Will pay best price. Call Mike 
. 699.50 Now 569.95 total(tax In­
31\6. 
cluded). Pioneer SX939 List $599.95 Now 479.95 total. Pioneer SX838Need ride to Boston Area for List 499.95 Now $399.95. Also greatChristmas Vacation. Share ex­buys on Sony,'Sherwood, Marantz, penses and driving. Call Jim at Dual'• Thorens, Technics and 
~39. 
much more.· 
Help! Need ride to Mobile, Ala. or Great records buys-all records onanywhere between New Orleans 
sale in Christmas Special at
and Pensacola. Will share $$ ·& Golden Dome Records 804 Flanner
driving. John 8621. · 
phone 1487 -.all single albums list $6.98 our regular price $4.55, now
2 Housemates for second _ 
$4.25. All Double Albums $.50 off semester. Fully carpeted with 
our regular low price-specialfireplace and individual room. $55 
orders available.
month plus utilities. Call 234-~5. 
For sale · Thorens TD160 with Shure V15 ·Type Ill • ThorensNOTICES TD125 . ABMK II with B & 0 spl ,Rectilinear X1A {still in
Hamlet, starring Nichol.. 
· box)(at cost) Nakimichi 1000 
Williamson Will be shown Sat. 
cassette deck. SAE MKIM 
Dec. 7 at 7:30 & 10:00 pm. in. tile Preamp(demo), SAE Equalizer.
Eng. Aud. 50 cents donation. ­Phone 1487. 
Need a ride for Christmas? . 
N.D. Council for Retarded
Wilson Driveaway has cars going 
Volunteers. -lmpt.. meeting
to many destinations in the u.s. following Sat.'s recreation.{especially South and West). Your only expense is gas. For all 'the. Domers &smics going to 
Floridadetails, call Jim at 169~ after 11:30 for Orange Bowl-Parties for ND· 
pm. 
SMC students will be posted at the Elbo Room and the Button in Ft. 
Campus view now renting for 2nd Lauderdale from Dec 27·Jan. 4. 
semester. New I & 2 bedroom apartments completely furnished. s month leases available. Call 272· 1441. 

eight lettermen from last year's 23-free from the inflated expectations 7 squad. They are also deep of his freshman year. Bobby enough that 6-10 Rick Suttle, who Knight has his top scorer back nearly destroyed Notre Dame a also,6-7·seniorSteveGreen (16.7), year ago with 27 points, might not along with 6-7 Scott May and 6-5 start. John Laskowski. 
Indiana is yet another team At UCLA, Bill Walton is gone at looking for revenge. The Hoosiers last but John Wooden as usual has 

Concert news: 
1. 
Doobie Brothers at A.C.C. Tuesday December 10. 

2. 
Black Oak Askansas & JoJo Gunne at A.C.C. Tuesday December 17. 


3.R.E.O. Speeedwagon at Morris Civic During Christmas Vacation­Listen to WRBR-FM(104) for further details. 
Notre Dame Dancers next lesson­Man. Eve. Dec. 9. -7:00pm­9:00pm. $2 EA. Always a beginner lesson 7-8 pm. Lesson is Rock 'N Roil. 
Manager University Village. The UNIVERSITY Personnel Department is accepting ap­plications for the position of Manager University Village. Applicants should have some business background and reside in village. Apply in person 1:OOpm to 5:00pm. Gary Marmontello, Personnel Dept. Brownson Hall. 
FOR SALE 
DHC-AT-45 8 track Player $30 Good condition, Movable Head. Pete-3238 or 124 Keenan. 
Bass guitar and Harmony 420 Amp. Good condition. Call 282-1039 
2 $8.50 Orange Bowl Tix. Will cut price. call 287-4962 or 2~-6361. 
Sony Amplifier FM-AM Receiver STR-110. with speakers. 1 year old. $125.00 or best offer. Call 8736. 
"Turquoise Lovers" Navajo Squashblossom for sale. Tom 2~· 
5646. 
4 Kinks Tickets-Chicago, Dec.. 13 27th row. call FRED,1108or 7~71. 
Ski boots for sale-Men's 9m good condition. Call 7993. 
Merry Christmas. 4 month-old 300 Watt Component Stereo System 41 percent-off of list price 
Steve 1403 

Camera Equipment: Nlkon F with meter; 35,50, 135, 300 mm Nlkon lens; 200 mm Unitar lens; Halliburton Steel Case. Call Zenon at 8003 between 11 :30pm & mid­
night. -·­
FOR RENT 
2 upstair rooms, large bedroom­den, available for Student oc­cupency. Share downstairs Kit­chen and bathroom. 3 miles from campus. Widow's pension allows no rent, share utilities-$32 month. Call Mrs. Spencer 233-4670 or 283­
7052. 
2 Rooms with Kitchen, bar, and color tube. Owner pays utilities. $60 per month. Call 288-0144. 
1 bedroom in 4 bedroom house 5 minute walk to campus $50 per month. 234-6834. 
$40 month. Kitchen, rides. Private. 233-1329. 
1 or 2 vacancies at Notre Dame Apartments, Second Semester 288­2203 
LOST ANQ FOUND 
Lost: one gold TIMEX watch Tuesday night 12-3 Call 1152 -Reward 
Found-on campus, female shepherd mixed, 2-4 mo old, black collar and white flea collar Call 288-0360 
LOST-Calculator at Physics 
Review. Reward. Call Marc 277­0176 
Lost-a pair of roun• ,;h blue­rimmed eye glasses. Call Connie 7865 
LOST.-green suede belt left in car of 3 N.D. students from Rochester who picked up 2 girls and dog on Ohio Turnpike during storm Sun. nite. Call Mary collect 312-327-8~ eves. You can keep jumper cables 
PERSONALS 
Snip, hope you have a very Merry X-Mas and a Happy B'Day Snot 
Bill B., Who was that strange girl with you? 
Antlchristal greetings of Christmas peace to all inhabitants of the realm. Apocalypse is near 
.' 

Dave Meyers and soplromore-Marques Johnson at the forwards. Indiana's own Pete Trgo'9'ich and Andre McCa;ter·.should te' the· guards ahead of a string of bJue chippers. · · . 
(continued to page 21) · 

COCONUT CREETER: THINK DUKE WILL EVER MOVE BACK TO BROTHERLY LOVE? RIGHT GUARD 
Dear 7th Floor Flanner Football 
Studs A before B except after Saturday Pete Denison & Wern 
Marlene, 
L.A. has laws against Ietty turns thru red lights (except if you are the third carl Mary, Marten, Mel 
Thanx to all tor heiplng on the student government reception ­Matt 
Saul, Have a Happy Birthday and don,t get too Stewed. Love, Roz 
Bear, Thank you for patience, for I.L.C. week(s), for -everything. Let,s keep a good thing going M.C. & 
H.N.Y. -1,11 miss you. Spoiled rotten and loving it. 
Talents cultivated during the California Oddessy: Marlene left turns from extreme right lane ­Mel's great job of navigating us up "two.bystreets.. and not telling us about the 5 miles of unmarked streets between­Merton's famous elbow trick ­Mary's great escorted tours of no. II in Fantesyland at Disneyland 
Dear Nick, Vl'e,ll meet you under the mistletoe for a birthday kiss Candy, Marilyn, Mary,, Ellen, Susie, Snash, Rose, Kathy, Barb, Nancy 
To the Farmer.s Daughter in 437 ­Merry Christmas · Your Favorite Security Guard 
The Irish Guard would like to thank Patrice Martin for the donation of her professional talents 
Carrigan: when,s the party? 
Merry Christmas to Spacey Megan, Prolific Sheeran, Magic Fingers Di, Sick Terry, Drunk Mary Sue & MB, & Masochistic Mary 
Hey Buddy, Merry Christmas twlnkletoes 
"Bebe, 
How about a quick roll in the hay? Super Sorin SMC SQUARE DANCE Fri. Dec. 6 8-12 pm 
~I e.z 4 a;-~.-~_._...-..,. ..~....,........ ·-.•-··"' .,._...,,_. 
~ 
the observer Friday, December 6, 1974 
Tigers next for Digger'S cage{rs) 
by Bill Delaney average offensively with its two victories over Northwestern and
Coach Digger Phelps and his Valpo, are more concerned withIrish Basketball Team hope to their defensive average of 84 pointsextend their winning streak to in the two wins.
three straight this Saturday af­ternoon at the ACC when they "Let's face it, we've given up too battle the Tigers of Princeton many points in our two games this University. season," commented Head Coach 
Princeton, coming into the Irish Digger Phelps. "Princeton is the contest with two victories already type of team th~t will go to a this season (beating Navy, 66-55 deliberate ball-control offense 
and bombing Fordham,· 70-47), when it gets a lead. I've known 
feature an All-American candidate Pete Carril <Princeton's coach)in 6'4,., sophomore Armond Hill, back in the days when I was a who can alternate at either guard coach at Penn, and he'll have his 
or forward. guys really psyched for the game."
"Hill is a tremendous player who Phelps will be starting the same can do wonders on the court," combination that has been verynoted assistant coach Frank impressive offensively in their 
McLaughli!'. "When he's on, he's first two games. Co-(!aptain as good as any guard in the Dwight Clay (averaging 20 points) country.'' and Dice Martin <who had seven 
Joining Hill in the backcourt will steals in the Northwestern game)be 5'10" Pete Malloy (a former will take charge in the backcourt, high school teammate of Irish while sophomores Billy Paterno center Pete Crotty), a 6'2" play­and Adrian "A.D." Dantley will be making guard Mickey Steuerer, at the forwards. Pete Crotty will and 6'7" Barnes Hauptfuhrer at be at center, and Toby Knight and forward for the Tigers. . freshmen Dave Batton, Jeff 
"They play an aggressiVe Carpenter and Duck Williams will defensive game, and like to crash be thP. first substitutes off the the offensive boards," said bene§
McLaughlin. "For us to win, we've Dt~tley, who's had scoring Irish guard Ray Martin, here In action with Northwestern, will have his hands full when Armond Hill and his Tiger teammates from Princeton invade the ACC Saturday afternoon. 
got to be quick and be able to niglif. of 37 and 44 points (the latter 
control the tempo of the game.'' battle. the key to Notre Dame's success Tipoff is scheduled for 4:10 and ' 
his career high) for the first two "We just got to play a tough, all-this sea~n, accorl:g -J~elps. tick~ts for the gB:me are. stillThe Irish, who come into the games of the season, sees the 
Princeton game with a 95.5 around aggressive game," said "I don t know ho many times I ~vai~able at the ticket o!fiC~.
Princeton contest as a tough 
A.D. "They play a tough schedule, have to say it, b t we really do Were ready for them; we II give 

and they're ready for us. We're need the support out there. We t~em a good ballgame." answered 
going to have to perform our best have a crucial contest here against BI~Iy Paterno.. For. Notre ~arne's 
against them to win." Princeton, and all the help that the third ~onsecutJve wm, they II have 
Crowd support, somewhat students can give will really to do JUSt that. lacking in the home opener. is still strengthen us."
OBSERVER 
Bowl-bound Irish go south 
SPORTS 
lor rematch with 'Bama 
by Greg Corgan quarterback spot. Ric~ard Todd is the probable Sports Editor starter although Gary Rutledge, Who was severely
Observer Sports Staff ================================================================: 
injured before the season started was the regular last 
Unlike all Notre Dame fans and all Southern Cal season and will be ready to step in should Todd ex­followers, Bear Bryant may have watched last Notre perience problems from an Irish defense that used to Dame-USC spectacle with mixed emotions. be the best in the nation.
The Irish Eye 
After all, the Irish did lose, something they didn't Like last year, 'Barna is versatile at the vitaldo last December in the Sugar Bowl. But then again, quarterback spot. Richard Todd is the probably
Ara Parseghian isn't one to take a loss lightly, starter although Gary Rutledge, who was severely
=============::=:::::::::===============================================================:::=:::=:=Christmas gifts especially a 55-24 one. And what better way to make injured before the season started was the regular last up for it than by beating the only "legitimate" un­
Toss your Christmas cookies and pass the Pepto, it's time once more season and will be ready to step in should Todd ex­
defeated team, Alabama.
for the Irish Eye's annual dispersion of Christmas presents. So whether perience problems from an Irish defense that used to you play sports, watch sports, or were once called "old sport" by a smelly be the best in the nation.. 
Paul .Bryant's Crimson Tide bring a perfect n-oold man read on and remember the words of Curt Gowdy in the 1973 At fullback is slashing Calvin Culliver, only arecord into the Orange Bowl on New Year's nightSuper &wl. "Jake Scott picks off the pass ...Jake Scott, who's mother is sophomore but still one of the best in a long line ofand if it wasn't for a missed extra point and a Boba psychiatrist. . . " thoroughbred 'Barna running-backs. He is joined by Thomas field goal in Tulane Stadium last year, they'd Willie Shelby, Randy Billingsley and Mike Stock, who 
Wayne Bullock: 145 more be 23-o. The Tide likes those zeroes. 
is most notorious around Notre Dame circles for the 
Art Best: a calendar watch so he'll never forget where he has to be infamous option pass he threw to Todd in last year'sBut in a bowl competition, Alabama has a lot ofAra: a case of total amnesia for the last 31 minutes of the USC game Sugar Bowl. This year, he's kept his antics on thezeroes, and in the past seven years they've all been on Pete Demmerle: a Rhodes scholarship ground, much to the chagrin of other SEC opponents. 
the left side. Since 1967 Alabama has failed to win in Tom Parise: boxing gloves seven straight bowl appearances. The closest it came
AI Wujciak: no more ink until THE PRESENT arrives "We have alot of speed in our backfield and our
was a 24-24 tie with Oklahoma in the Astro­
Jim Stock: some well-deserved recognition quarterbacking is solid," said Bryant. "Of course
Biuebonnet bowl in 1970. And as Wayne Bullock says, 
Tom Clements: ten more Miami games and one fewer Sports lliustrated you don't replace a Wilbur Jackson. Someone just
"Man, their luck's just got to change some time.'' 
cover takes his place."
Ara, Woody, Bo, and John McKay hope it isn't thisGreg Collins: a first place in the "Burt Reynolds Look Alike Contest" 
time. Those someone's have done some job this season.
Erick Penick: the ball, blocking and some Little Friskies The Tide is agiH one of the leaders in the nation inSteve Niehaus: congratulations on his first completed season The Irish will wander into this New Year's contest total offense and ranks in the top five in fewest points 
our A.D.: ·matching his jersey number every night in Miami in much the same state of mind with which allowed. This is due, in part, to the play of ends Leroy their A.D.: no children visiting teams usually come into Notre Dame ·Cook antl Mike Dubose. Linebackers Woody Lowe
Freshman goalie Len Moher: on less starting goalie Stadium. In other words, everything to gain and and Greg Montogomery are the mainstays behindFreshman goalie John Peterson ::one less starting goalie nothing to lose, except some more pride. 
the front five and cornerback Mike Washington is anBob Best: a throne for the czar "I won't have a hard time getting this team up for All-American nominee.
"Duck" Wllliams: to never be plucked, roasted, 'fried, or generally shot the Orange Bowl," said Parseghian. "It's still a hell "Our strength once again is in our Iinebacking,"down on the Observer sports page of a challenge for our players to be playing an un­says Bear. "We have depth and talent there. OurOklahoma: more intelligent players who can get in legally, or more defeated team like Alabama. After all, they are the secondary has plenty of experience and more thanintelligent coaches who can hide it if not 
number one team in the nation and we do have adequate speed." 
John McKay: ,a severe thrashing in the Rose Bowl 
something to prove.''
Woody "Schmuck" Hayes: the same 
The Irish are more than anticipating the New Dwight Clay: Ithe ball when he asks for it, especially in the last seconds of The Irish couldn't have picked a tougher team to do Year's classic and they will bring with them a couple a game 
it against, unless of course it was Southern Cal again, of newly selected All-Americans. Tom Clements,Digger Phelps: an NCAA bid and some voice lessons in Los Angeles. Although the Tide started out slowly, Greg Collins have just about everyone's choice for
-
Alabama: a bottle of Tide-D-Bowl beating Maryland 21-16 and almost losing to Florida national honors as have split end Pete Demmerle and Notre Dame Student Body: tefunds for overpriced tickets State 8-7, Alabama has beaten their last six opponents gcard Gerry DiNardo. Add Mike Fanning WayneAI, Ross, Willie, Luther, Dan, and Roy: restricted railroad travel by a combined score of 179-29. That margin includes Bullock, Jim Stock and a few others and Notre Dame AI Conover: a lengthy prison sentence a 17-13 win last Friday over the tough Auburn War has a fairlywell represented contingent. 
Vic Dorr: more "flaming" time. in Atlanta Eagles.
tLertv Smith:ll color protrait of Red Wilkie (to throw darts at). The Irish are off until December 23 when they will Col. Stephens: a pair of stilts. This year's Alabama club has much the same travel to Marco Island and begin workouts. Till then strengths asBryant'slast four teams have had. Since they have a much needed and well deserved op­
Norma & Jud_v: ·the Medal of Honor for putting up with us. 
the Bear went to the Wishbone in '71 the Crimson Tide 
R...O.V.: better jokes at the football banquet portunity to recuperate and forget. 
Fr. Joyce: Thanks for getting us to SC. has compiled a record of 42 wins and only four losses. As long as they remember what they did right last Like last year, 'Barna is versatile at the vital December 31. 






