I l 
Oa The lnslda 
Graver's obituary,. ···Rage 6 "eeney confesses ... page 14 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 40 
WednesSax, Octpber 23, 1974 
New format lor freshman year 
Hofman explains frosh electives 
by Don Reimer Staff Reporter 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman yesterday explained the addition of an extra free elective to the format for the freshman year program of studies. 
"It will give many students an opportunity to take courses that they may be interested in but couldn't otherwise take," explained Hofman. "This extra courses might allow freshman to either take a course to enhance their major or simply for general education." 
Referring to the new format,Hofman stressed, "It does not destroy the possibility of taking an intent program. A student could take exactly the same programs as in the regular intent." 
Hofman explained the changes in the new format e:md their effect on course selections. All students will still be required to take Mathematics and English. The first major differemce, he explained, affects their third subject for which the student must choose either a natural science or a foreign language. Presently, all Arts and Letters students must choose a foreign language in this opening. However, under the new format, they may, in addition to thier language, take science as their extra free elective. 
In the fourth choice, a social science is no longer required both first and second semesters. A student may now choose an elective in this spot for one of the semseters. 
The fifth choice, which is a free elective, "really makes the difference" according to Hofman. The student will now have this elective each semester in addition to the one which replaces his social science. 
As an example Hofman cited the typical pre-med student. In addtion to his reglar intent courses, this student must take a social science and philosophy or theology. 
"This student might be contmplating a major in biololgy, sociology, or engineering as a route to medical school," explained Hofman. ' Under the new format this student could take some of these courses." 
As a second instance of the new flexibility 
provided, Hofman cited the fact that Arts and Letters 
take no philosophy or theology in their freshman year. 


Hofman: 'Based upon the kind of information we've received in designing this program and considering hopes for the future, we look for it to be an opportunity for freshmen.' 
Throught the new format anyone intersted in one oi these areas could take a course in it as his extra elective. 
"Generally", said Hofman, "a student could take any course in whichhe might have a further interst . This could be the last chance for someone to take a course in an area of special interst sucha s fine arts," observed Hofman. 
Hofman emphasized the importance of guidance to the freshman in selecting his electives. "The students will be guided," he stated. "We wouldn't want the students to make serious mistakes." 
Much information concerning their choices will be 
available to the students, according to Hofman. "Much of the information will come directly from the individual colleges," he explained. "This material will explain precisely the requirements of the par­ticular college and the type of background desired for its students.'' 
"We are well aware of the importance of good guidance," stressed Hofman, "and the Frshman Year Office has every intention of cooperating with the colleges as well as the students." 
Hofman explained that this new format was developed by a university committee, not only by the Freshman Year Office. The committee was composed of three representatives from Arts and Letters, two from Science, two from Business Adminsitration, two from Engineering, one student and himself. 

Hofman concluded, "Based upon the kind of in­formation we've received in designing this program and considering hopes for the future, we look for it to be an opportunity for freshmen." 

In a survey conducted yesterday, student reaction to the addition of an extra elective generally tended to be favorable, though qualified in some cases. 
One freshman Bruce Rand thought the addition of an elective would be a very good idea. He explained "this would help me to explore different areas areas of in­
terest." 

A sophomore, Brian Lopina, commented, "I think it's a good idea because it gives you more latitude in choosing what you want to take or in exploring another area. I'm interested in both Psychology and Govern­ment," Lopina said, "and if I'd have had another elective I could have explored one of these 
areas last year." 
Concerning the Arts and Letters language requir­
ment, Lopina said, "I'm against the language 
requirment because it serves no useful purpose if 
you aren't interested in it.'' 
Expressing an opposite view of this requirment was 
Mary Reimer, a freshman in Arts and Letters, "I'd 
just as soon get it out of the way this year," she said, 
"so I can take other courses next year." 
Reimer also thought that the extra elective would be 
benificial. "It would give you an extra course to ex­
plore different areas, "she explained. "You might be 
able to take some courses for pure interest too." 
Beth Klein, a fresnman HioJogy major, tnougnt tnat freshmen should have an extra elective only if they want it. "I couldn't handle another course now," 
she explained, "because I have Biology, Chemistry, 
and Calculus 125 all at the same time." 
Klein stressed the importance of "personal interst" classes. She commented, "you're stuck with certain courses right now and you can't take any specail in­terst classes and I think thses special intersts reall make the person.'' 


Press warned against prejudicing Kent case 
CLEVELAND (UPI) -Fed­eral Judge Frank J. Battisti cautioned newsmen and attor­neys Tuesday to avoid prejudic­ing the case of the prosecution or the defense in the trial of eight former Ohio National Guardsmen charged in the shootings at Kent State Univer­sity in which four students were killed and nine wounded. 
Battisti referred to a state­ment made earlier by former Guardsman James Pierce that he had lost his job on a construction project in Florida because of the amount of time the trial is expected to take. 
Pierce made the statement during selection of the jury for the trial which is expected to take about &ix weeks, according to Battisti. 
"Statements outside the court do not concern us in the extent as they may be prejudicial in this case," Battisti said. "The reporters should know better and counsel should instruct its clients not to make statements 
of this media."  kind  to  the news  
Battisti statement  later and  tesaid  mpered it was  his not  

an admonishment of the media. 
··n is quite probable that my statement...can be taken as rather harsh," said Battisti. "I happen to know the statement was recorded accurately and I am not criticizing the repor­tine:." 
''I would like the press to keep in mind th8;t the spirit of my remarks IS to avoid prejudicing the case of either the government or the defen­se," Battisti said. "We are all aware of the problems that exist through the constitutional rights of free speech and to a free press and to a fair trial. 
"It· is difficult for the press to 

know  where  to  draw  the  line,"  imprisonment  if  convicted  in  The  other  three  could  be  
said  Battisti.  "I  am  not  the  deaths  of  four  students  sentenced  to  up  to  one  year in  
admonishing  the  reporters."  demonstrating four  years  ago  prison and fined  up  to  $1,000 if  
Five of  the guardsmen  face  against  the  expansion  of  the  convicted. duplicate  to  b wire  
maximum  sentences  of  life  war  in  Indochina.  points  

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Next regular edition ... November 6 Special election issue ... November 4 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Attorneys for Richard M. Nixon Tuesday asked U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica to order that the former president be provided transcripts of all tapes introduced at the Watergate cover-up trial so that Nixon can be preparing "for any testimony he may be called upon to give." 
BOSTON <UPI) • Eight knives werefoundbypolice in front of two 
Boston high schools Tuesday by officials using metal detectors to stop weapons from being brought into racially troubled classrooms. 
<UPI) • Two major U.S. oil companies Tuesday reported earnings increases of up to 158 per cent in the third quarter of 1974. In Houston, Shell Oil Co. reported a 158 per cent increase in third quarter net income over the same period in 1973 and said total net earnings were $462.3 million for the first nine months of this year. 
In Pittsburgh, Gulf Oil Corp. reported earnings increases of 31 per cent for the third quarter and 43 per cent for the first nine months. 

an campus taday 
12:25 
pm .. seminar, "autochthomous mlcrooorganlsms, gastrointestinal ecosystems, and animal psyslology," dr. dwayne 

c. 
savage, unlv. of Illinois, with coffee and sandwiches In rm 109, at 11:45, rm 102 lobund lab. 


3:00pm .. seminar, "aluminum-graphite composites," dr. wm. c. harrlgan, aerospace lab, los angeles, rm 5, eng in. building. 
4:30 pm •• lecture, "nmr studies of negative cooperatlvlty In glyceraldehyde 3, phosphate dehydroganase" dr. m.a. raftery, rm 103, nieuwland science hall. 
4:30pm .. colloquium, "phonon loss In liquid helium." dr. edwards. sablsky, rca; coffee at 4:15, rm 118 nieuwland science hall. 
5:00 pm .. vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
6:30pm .• meeting, nd sailing club, rm 204, engineering building. 
7:00pm .• meeting, flying irish, flanner tower pit. 
7:00 pm .. campaign, democrats for Indiana assembly, Iafortune balllroom. 
7:30 pm .. lecture, "james joyce: artist as priest," robert boyle, s.j., marquette u., carroll hall, madeleve memorial. 
7:00pm--meeting, for girls Interested in dolphin club, timers and judges, to help swim team; rockne mem. 
8:15 pm .. concert, chicago symphony string quartet, william cerney, plano, $1, library aud. 
11: oo pm --south quad liturgy, lyons hall chapel. thursday, oct. 24 
4:15 pm -· coloquium, "psychology: an optimistic future?" dr. james e. blrren, usc, rm 117 haggar hall. 
6:30 pm --careers, "Interview prep session" career development center. 
7:30pm-· lecture, "pirandello," frederic syburg, regina south aud. friday oct. 25 
2:30pm--seminar, "power system simulation studels," dr. demos 
p. gelopulos, arizona state u., rm 204 engineering bldg. 
4:30pm--lecture, "characterization of acetylocholine receptors," dr. m.a. raftery, rm 123 nieuwland science hall. 
5:00 pm --mass and dinner, bulla shed. 

AFrlm by PAUL MORRISSEY ACARLO PONTI • BRAUNSBH ..i-RASSAM PRODUCTION· COLOR· ABRYANSTON PICTURES RELEASE 
®N o o n e u n d e r 1 8 -I D R e q u i r e d For showtimes, see theater uide 
w==:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::==================================================================================:===========:=;====:!;:=:=:=:===================t1 
Plans released Have a BIG q:>pet1te? ~~~·
:1l1: 
~::n~~!::e!::r ~~;;~s BIG BOY RESTAURANT~
·:::~ . ... 
::;:~ 5 2 8 6 0 U . S . 3 1 N o r t h iii~ 
by Ken Bradford ~;:; :;:; 
Staff Reporter lllj JRY OlJR COUNTRY FRIED GIQ<EN j;~~ Tentative plans for Junior ;:~(SDrr~ALS ~I TlJESD•AV AND THURSD•A1'· 
Parents Weeken~ were _released~~ 1":"1:\..1 '-A"' M I M .: yesterday by project chau-man J. :::l ·: • Patrick Boyle. i~~l Phone 272-C!l'lQ for COrry~ service ~~ 
The weekend, sponsored by the :=:: (\ Notre Dame Junior Class Officers, :;~::::;.::.:::::.:&;;.::::;-~:~:::=:i:::~:::~::~.;.;·~::;:::::-.::-~~~:;~•:~: will be Friday, February 28 through Sunday, March 2. Boyle SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR said over thirty are currently 
NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS
working on the finalization of the activity plans. Highlighting the weekend, ac­

$895
cording to Boyle, will be collegiate workshops in which parents will 
Double occupancy 
meet with faculty members in the students' major fields. 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Su11. 
"Many of our parents have 
except home football game.weekends.
been out here before, but only in September and May or for football 

HICKORY INN MOTEL
games," Boyle noted. "The 
50520 U.S. 31 North
workshops will acquaint parents 
South Bend, Indiana 46637
with the academic side of Notre Dame." 
(219) 272-7555 
Other weekend activities willl 
3 miles North of the Tollroad 
include a Friday night hockey game against Wisconsin and a 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Saturday afternoon basketball 
Send this ad to your parents
game against Dayton. 
A cocktail party will follow the hockey game and a presidential 

mczn'l hail 1tyl1ng
dinner will be held Saturday evening. The dinner will be followed by a Presidential Mass celebrated by University 



men's hair Stylin 
President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. Boyle said the weekend program will balance social, athletic and 

~,-,'l(;i,. BtttZin
academic aspects of university life. The entire schedule of events will be completed by Thanksgiving, Boyle added, and 
WHATEVER THE STYLE
invitations will be sent to partents 
...
in early December. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame .nd St. 




z;;·~~:~:([)r1

Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S9 per semester CS16 per year) from Th:: Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class HAIR CARE FOR MEN postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
s\1 
46556. 
TOWN & COUNTRY MIN.i MALL--MISHAWAKA,IND. 46544 
~J?!bu1btMtce»te1zl 
CITIZENS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM 
Post-Doctorate Scientists & Engineers 


CAREER OPPORTUNITIES ICI 
For some years, ICI has recruited U.K. graduates from those who have come to the U.S.A. to complete post-doctoral studies. We will do so again this year. The ICI Group employs over 7,000 graduate scientists and engineers. Half of them in R&D and mainly in the U.K., Western Europe, North America, and Australia. 
The ICI Group has an extensive International program to make radical changes in products for health, agriculture, textiles, industry, and the home. We are also doing important work to change and manage tech· nology in response to higher energy and resource prices and new en­vironmental needs. Accordingly, we are actively seeking: 
CHEMICAL & OTHER ENGINEERS CHEMISTS • PHYSICISTS • BIOLOGISTS to join us in these undertakings. In November, 1974, two senior ICI Representatives will be visiting the 
U.S.A. to drscuss career openings with selected post-doctoral scientists and engineers. If you would like to be among those considered, RUSH a Curriculum Vitae to: 


't 

Wednesday, Octo~er 23, _,_,19'-'-74"------=-t-=-h:....:e=---=o::.:b~s~e:...:rv....:..!e~r~--~3 

Bayh speaks on campaign issues 
by Marlene Zlo:r.a Relating to the Water con­opponent, and noted that even this 
Managing Editor victions, Bayh said that "nobody was "too much to spend in a state went to jail for the campaign the size of Indiana." 
Asserting that Watergate and violations." Instead, a fine of Bayh added that his bill would the events of the past few years $1,000 was the penalty, according provide for a 12 cent per voter have "shaken the confidence of the to Bayh. spending limit, which would American people in the political "My bill would make such amount to about $500,000 in process itself," U.S. Senator Birch violations a felony, with penalties diana. 
Bayh brought the issue of cam­of up to five years in jail and 
"Watergate ought to teach us to
paign reforms to the forefront of $100,000 in fines." 
change the way we finance elec­
his re-election campaign yester­In the area of public financing, 
tions, if it teaches us anything,"
day afternoon. Bayh advocated a "broader base, 
Bayh asserted. "I am not so naive
Speaking in the Library a change in the way of financing 
as to think we won't get some
Auditorium,Bayh gave an informal campaigns involving large 
dishonest people in politics, but
presentation of the recently amounts of small contributions 
reforms will shore up the system
enacted campaign reform act and and public financing." 
and help the honest
explained his proposal for further "Whereas my opponent (In­
people ... Watergate penalties were
reforms. dianapolis Mayor Richard Lugar) 
misdemeanors that could hardly
"As long as there are those who has said the one dollar tax checkoff 
be the incentive needed to warn
doubt the people who run the is a waste of the taxpayer's 
people against dishonest prac­
government, the confidence in money," said Bayh. "I consider it tices."
solutions to other problems, like probably the best tax dollar they 
After his informal address, Bayh 
inflation, poverty, pollution, is spend· if they choose to do it." 
discussed a variety of issues and
shaky," Bayh claimed. 
questions brought up by audience
Calling campaign reform "a Bayh called raising money for members.
very fundamental issue," the campaigns "a very undesirable Indiana Senator explained that his aspect of an otherwise very bill "would deal rather stringently desirable profession ... The is approved. "Let Congress see stated that he was personallywith national campaign prac­business of raising money makes Concerning the Rockefeller what the people see in a long opposed to abortion, but also op­tices," whereas the present law is you feel like a beggar." nomination as vice president, campaign, since they must act as posed to an amendment to only "half a loaf." The current As to large contributors, Bayh Bayh related that he had thought an electoral surrogate," con­Constitution to regulate it, "until 
law now applies only to pointed out that wealthy people at first that it was "a real coup for cluded Bayh. we know where we are going and presidential campaigns, and not to like Clement Stone should not be Ford," but that now there are Bayh also came out firmly op­what we are doing." Congressional races. allowed to influence campaigns concrete doubts. "I wouldn't vote posed to wage and price controls to "We don't just run out with an 
Bayh's comprehensive -cam­with their large donations. "It is now to confirm him, but I wouldn't help stem inflation. "Nixon tried amendment on every issue, we paign reform measure would inexcusable for big amounts of dicide until Rockefeller has a it, Congress approved it, and only ~ave 26 of them so far," Bayh 
require a strengthening of the money from individuals or groups chance to come back to Congress although it was wisely used before explamed. "We don't yet know all income tax checkoff provision to to influence policy or politicians," to answer the questions and ac­the '72 election, it later failed. As of the legal and scientific facts and provid full public financing of said Bayh. cusations. Because someone is soon as the election was over, ramifications." Presidential elections from small, rich shouldn't exclude him from controls were taken off prices but Concerning the charge that he is voluntary contributions; a new In general, Bayh called for a serving in public office, but we are not off wages," Bayh explained. a big spender, Bayh called it "a series of federal laws to prevent limit on the total amount of money looking for some who must be fit "I am in favor of controls on the ra!her ridiculous charge," and political "dirty tricks"; and added that can be spent on an election. for the presidency." most inflationary pressure area, said that it was true that he ad­penalties for those who fail to "There has been some progress Bayh expressed concern about which is the petroleum issue," vocated various appropriations,report campaign contributions and but not as much as I'd like to see." the conflict of interests issue but Bayh said. "The number one in­but only when he thought they were expenditures accurately. This bill Bayh added that he was spending stressed the importance of flation problem is petroleum necessary. He mentioned pre­has passed the Senate twice, but roughly $800,000 on his campaign, possibly increasing the cynicism of prices, and there are over 10,000 school aid, cancer research failed in the House. compared to the $2 million of his people about politics if Rockefeller products we use that are made out education and health care as area~
of petroleum products." 
that need more funding. "BigBayh added that although he is

Between dining halls spending is a bogus issue," Bayh
generally opposed to controls and added. likes the free enterprise system, As a final statement, Bayh ap­there is actually very little free pealed to the students to believe in


Exchange program starts at ND 
enterprise system in the petroleum and work through the political industry. "I don't want Uncle Sam process. "One vote does make a by Bob Radziewicz atmosphere in daily eating thanks for all time donated by in the oil business, but I want the difference," claimed Bayh. Staff Reporter routines and to act as a con­Notre Dame students. oil industry to think a little more "There are sometimes very im. 
portant bills that pass by one vote

venience for those students with The HPC chariman reminded about what is in the best interest of A trial exchange program classes far from their assigned thecouncil that the shamrock sales Uncle Sam." and my first election to the Senate 
was won by an average of two

between the North andSouthdining dining hall," Wordal explained to of the drive will end at the Miami votes per precinct."
halls was announced by Blake the HPC. this weekend. Wordal, Student Government co-ex The coordinator added that the coordinator, at a brief meeting future of the program-to make of the Hall Presidents' Council last the program a permanent fixture 
night. and extend it to include evening meals-will be dependent upon its The exchange experiment, !;uccess in the eyes of both the 
which will be tested during the two­students and the Food Services week period commencing on Administration. November 6th, will be for lunches The program will use a stampedonly. The ticket distribution will exchange ticket on which the 
be made on a hall-to-hall basis, student must fill in his meal sticker 
based on the population of the hall number so that the cards may be in relation to the total populationof checked with the meal number on-campus students, according to lists. The student must present an Wordal. The co-ex coordinator ID card with the exchange card to 
also explained that tickets will be make certain that the meal sticker rotated among the residence halls numbers are the same. every three days. In other business, Chairman Bob 
"The objectives of this program Howl reported that receipts from are to provide for more com­the first weekend shamrock sales munication between the North and for the United Fund drive totalled 
South quads, to provide a change of $415.13. Howl expresssed his 
YES! 
There Will Be Mass & Dinner 
At Bulla Shed This Friday -5 p.m. 
-bring a friend I 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

----------~ --~-------~-------------­



4 the observer Wednesday, October 23, 1974 

For September 
•




ND rece1ves $456,000 
The University of Notre Dame has accepted $456,270 in awards for the month of September to support individual faculty projects in research and innovative educational programs, according to Robert E.Gordon, vice president for advanced studies. 
Awards for research totaled 
$418,470 and included: 
--$123,113· from the National 
Institutes of Health <NIH> for a 
study of the genetics and 
reproductive biology of Aedes 
mosquitoes by Dr: George B. 
Craig, Jr., professor of biology. 
On November 23 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 
Announcements for the November 23 Junior Class Formal greeted members of the Class of '76 when they opened their campus mailboxes yesterday afternoon. In a recent interview, Junior Class Secretary Betsy Kall explained many of the details concerning the dance. 
The first annual Notre Dame Junior Class Formal will be held from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. the evening of November 23 at the Four Flags Motor Inn in Niles, Michigan. FLIGHT, a band from Chicago whose specialty is music by the rock group Chicago, is scheduled to perform. 
Those who attend will need to 
supply their own transportation, 
but free snacks will be available 
upon arrival. The bar will be open 

U W raises $450 
$450 was raised for the United .Way fund last night as St. Mary's annd Notre Dame students, with the aid of SMC faculty, auctioned conated items which ranged from an autographed football of last year's national championship team, to a sweater made by St. Mary's chemistry professor, Dr. 
WORLD 

CAMPUS AFLOAT 
You'll sail in February,with the ship your class· room and the world your campus ... combining ac­credited studies with fasci. nating visits to the fabled ports of the Orient, Africa, and the Americas. Over 10 000 students from 450 coileges have already sailed with WCA -join them! Fi· nancial aid available. Write today for free catalog. 
WCA, Chapman College Box F, Orange, CA 92666 
--$78,869 from NIH for a study of the intermediary metabolism of helminths, a type of parasitic worm, by Dr. Howard J. Saz, professor of biology. 
--$74,900 from the N<!ti~nal Science Foundation <NSF) for a study of fire and smoke spread by Dr. Jerome L. Novotny·, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering.
--$51,900 from NSF for a study of transport phenomena related to an artificial heart valve by Dr. John 
R. Lloyd, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering; Dr. Thomas J. Mueller, professor of aerospace 

Junior formal slated 
for those who wish to buy their own liquid refreshments. 
Standard dress for the affair is expected to be formal dresses for the women and sportcoats and ties for the men. 
Tickets wil go on sale November 4 at the Student Union Ticket Of­fice in LaFortune at a price of $5.00 per couple. The sale will continue until November 15 or whenever the limited number of tickets is exhausted. The purchasers of the tickets must be juniors. 

and mechanical engineering,-and Dr. Eldred H. MacDonnell, ad­junct associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
-·$34,670 from NIH for "nuclear magnetic resonance" studies of metals in kinases and related enzymes by Dr. Thomas L. Nowak, assistant professor of chemistry. 
--$27,018 from NIH for a study of chemotherapy and metabolism of filarlids, a type of parasitic worm, by Dr. Howard J. Saz, professor of biology. 
--$25,000 from the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration for a study of optical integrated circuits-passive and active elements by Dr. Carl J. Magee, assistant professor of electrical engineering. 
--$3,000 from NIHfor a research fellowship institutional allowance administered by Dr. Morris Pollard, chairman of the Deparrtment of Microbiology, director of Lobund Laboratory and professor of microbiology. 
Notre Dame also received a 
grant of $37,800 from the National 
Cdnter for Law and the 
Handicapped for a legal internship 
program on law and the han­
dicapped. The program will be 
adminsistreed by Charles W. 
Murdock, associate professor of 
law, and Dr. Harvey A. Bender, 
professor of biology. 
-------,SCHEDULE OF FREE MINI-LESSONS-------­You'll increase your reading speed 50 to 100% on the spot! 

LAST DAY 
FREE RCADING DYNA'\AICS LESSQ\5 TODAY at 4:00 pm and 8:00 pm at THE CENTER Frn CONTINUING EDUCATION on The Notre Darre Campus 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 


You can do it, too. So far over 550,000 other people have done it. People who have different jobs, different lOs, different interests, different educations have completed the course. Our graduates are people from all walks of life. These people have all taken a course developed by Evelyn Wood, a prominent educator. Practically all of them at least tripled their reading speed with equol or better comprehension. Most have increased it even more. Think for a moment what that means. All of them-even the slowest-now read an average novel in less than two hours. They read an entire issue of Time or 
Newsweek in 35 minutes. They don't skip or skim. They read every word. They use no machines. Instead, they let the material they're reading determine how fast they read. And mark this well: they actually understand more, remember more, and enjoy more than when they read slowly. That's rightl They understand more. They remember more. They enjoy more. You can do the same 
Is i already too late to get a drive-away to go home for break? 
We talked to the campus representative for Wilson Drive-away, Jim Scott, and he said that it was too late to get one through him. Your best bet would be to call Wilson Dive-away directly in Chicago and see what they have left. The number for Wison Drive-away is (312) 236-0445. 
When will the last meal before the break be served in the dining hall? 
The dining hall will close for the mid-semester break oafter serving dinner on Saturday, October 26. The dining halls will resume service with dinner on Sunday, November 3. 
Will the Rockne Memorial or A.C.C. be open during the break? 
Both the "Rock" and the A.C.C. willbe open during the break. The ACC will maintain its regualr schedule, that of 8:00am to 10:00 pm Monday through Saturday and 1:00pm to 10:00 pm on Sunday. The "Rock" will operate on a modified schedule. Its new hours will be 10+00 am to 10+00 pm Mondayh through Sunday. The pool will be open 1:00pm through 5:30 and 7:00 pm through 9:45 Monday through Saturday and 1:00 to5:30 on Sunday. 
When is Junior Parents' Weekend? 
This year Junior Parents' Weekend will take place on February 28 and March 1 and 2. 
1\/ote: The Ombudsman Service will offer its services to the Notre L•ame Community week days 9:30 to 5:00 and Monday through Thursday evenings 10:00 to midnight. The service will be closed over the break, but it will resume on Monday, the 4th of November in full force. 




It Sounds Incredible 
BUT EVELYN WOOD GRADUATES CAN READ 
THE EXORCIST IN 58 MINUTES 
At That Speed, The 403 Pages Come Across W'lth More Impact Than The Mawie. 
thing-the place to learn more about it is at a free speed reading lesson. 
This is the same course President Kennedy had his Joint Chiefs of Staff take. The staff of President Nixon completed this course in June 1970. The same one Senators and Congressmen have taken. 
Come to a Mini-Lesson and find out. It is free to you and you will leave with a better understanding of why it works. One thing that might bother you about your reading speed is that someone might find out how slow it is. The instructors at the Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Free Speed Reading lesson will let you keep your secret. It's true we practice the first step to improved reading at a Mini-Lesson and we will increase your reading speed on the spot, but the results will remain your secret. Plan to attend a free Mlni·Lesson and learn that it is possible to read 3-4-5 times faster, with comparable comprehension. 


~---­
----------------------~--------------------~ 
Wednesday, October 23, 1974 
the observer 

5 
Latin American 'Year-Off' begins 
by Ellen Syburg Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame "Year-Off" Program in Latin America scheduled to begin in the summer of 1975 is designed to provide in­terested students with an ex­periential learning encounter not available in the typical four year curriculum on the university campus. The program, which will be centered in Peru, Panama and Chile, was designed by Fr. Don McNeill, professor of Theology, and Fr. Claude Pomerleau, professor of government. 
The "Year-Off" will serve as an "Inter-cultural experiment in which the American students values will be questioned and re­evaluated through total immersion in another way of life," Pomerleau explained. Unlike students in Notre Dame's other foreign programs, the "Year-off" par­ticioants will not concentrate on aca.demic study. After an 
orientation period in which they will become acquainted with the 
EPA orders neW" truck mufflers 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -The told a news conference. 
Environmental Protection A spokesman for several Agency Tuesday ordered 70,000 environmental groups, however, heavy trucks to install quieter criticized the new rules as too tires and mufflers as part of a 1weak, claiming they would $455 million antinoise campaign actually result in "legalized that it said will eventually noise pollution." EPA officials result in trucks that make no c'ountered that the effort was more noise than an accelerat­ttie best they could_ come up ing car. with, and said the trucking 
The American public should inc\ustry is not satisfied with begin to notice a "fairly the result either. perceptible change" in highway noise levels within the next 12 EPA's actions consisted of: months as a result of the new -A final rule, effective one regulations, Assistant EPA year from now, under which Administrator Roger Strelow the 70,000 noisiest of the 1 
Parseghian starts off celebrity luncheons 
by Martha Fanning Staff Reporter 
The Bulla Shed's Celebrity Luncheon program initiated last year will again be held this year. Ara Parseghian will be the first visitor to start off this year's program. 
Parseghian will be appearing to share lunch and conversation with members of the Notre Dame 
community between 12:00 and 
1:15 p.m. on Tuesday, November 5. 
At this time no definite schedule of future celebrities has been formed. A co-operative offort between the Bulla Shed and guest­sponsoring agencies such as the Academic Commission is planned. 
Fr . William Toohey of the campus ministry stated "We hope to be able to have these agencies extend luncheon invitations, on behalf of the Bulla Shed, to celebrities they have scheduled to appear on campus." 
During next semester they hope to have some of the individuals participating in the Sophomore Literary Festival appear at the luncheons while they are on the campus. 
Toohey explained that the "Celebrity Luncheon" program idea came from a group of students and his staff last year. "We thought it would be a great way to provide people a chance to meet informally and converse with persons one might never have a chance to contact otherwise," he stated. 
Last year's program proved to area and more familiar with the language, the students will choose an area of social reform work that interest them. They will then become directly involved in existing community programs related to that problem. McNeill explained that the students will also be expected to develop a lifestyle and an attitude toward the use of money that is appropriate to the culture and a person "truly dedicated to social reform." 
Students will live with families, but meet weekly, as a group, with a contact person to share their ex­periences and discuss their goals. The contact person will be someone, probably a priest, who is directly involved with social change in that country. He will guide the students in their work in the community and serve as a resource person because of his extensive contacts with lay leaders and other church groups involved in this type of work. 
McNeill explained, "Our belief is that values cannot be taught by a teacher to a student but come trom 
be a success with attendance varying at each luncheon. On­campus individuals like Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Dunne andDigger Phelps, and visitors to the campus such as Jason Miller and Senator Margaret Chase Smith were among those included in last year's program. 
"We want to do the same thing this year," Fr. Toohey added, "and we though Ara would be an excellent one to start with." 
The Bulla Shed is located on the eastern edge of the campus, on the corner ~f Juniper and Bulla Roads. 

N.Y.U. GRAD SCHOOL 
A representative of New York University's Grauuc•~ID" 

School of 'r.rts and Science will be at your Thursday, Nov. 7, for the purpose of counseling prospective graduate students interested in learning general information about our graduate School as well as specific information about housing, financial aid, the thirty-one different departments comprising the Graduate School, and the advantages of undertaking graduate work in New York City. Please contact Placement Bureau for an appointment. 
experience. Thus we see this experience with the vitally con­cerned Christian groups who are involved in very dynmamic social change in Latin America as a way for an American student to con­front his own value stystem and thus become educated." 
Pomerleau explained that the program is designed to take place between a student's sophomore and junior year, "By the end of the sophomore year an interested student ought to be able to handle this type of experience and when he or she returns for the junior year he or she will have two years in which to share the experience with the Notre Dame campus." 
McNeill discussed the type of student he hopes will take part, "We're looking for students who are willing to take a risk and break with the traditional Notre Dame 

.education. People who are very 
concerned about getting in and out 
of here in four years and starting 
on their careers are not suited for 
this program. We're looking for 
people with a special motivation 
and thus we will limit the program 
million heavy trucks traveling in interstate commerce would have fx> get quieter tires and exhaust. systems, at a cost of about $135 per vehicle. 
-Proiosed rules affectmg motor homes, delivery vans, trucks apd tractors over 10,000 pounds gross weight -but not 
buses -under which decreases in noise would have to be built in from the 1977 through the 1983 model years. By 1983, it said, trucks running at low speed "would emit noise no greater than a modern automo­bile in acceleration." 
-ProposM standards to reduce noise from portable air compressors, second only to trucks as a source of noise at construction sites. 
Nobel Lecture series continues 
The Nobel Lecture Series 
sponsored by the St. Mary's 
Department of English continues 
tomorrow night. Frederic Syburg 
will speak on "Pirandello" at 7:30 
pm in the Regina Basement 
Auditorium. 
Thursday's lecture and all future lectures in the Nobel Series will be held in Regina, NOT in Carroll Hall as previously announced. 
to six students per country per year." They anticipate that those who take the "year-off" would graduate in four and a half to five years. 
Students who wish to be con­sidered for the 1975 program must have an extensive knowledge of Spanish or be willing to take an intensive language-course next semester. Mter indicating their interest to McNeill or Pomerleau the applicants will be asked to present a proposal outlining their expectations and goals for the year abroad. Once a student has been accepted, financial assistance will be sought from outside benefac­

,...•-••m [Greeting Cards ! !' 20 Percent Off i \
. .
-·---····­
Paperback books
~mM il\_.a? 
Magazines Novelty items Paraphernalia



cil~&d-·
~~'
Town & Country _ /' . ~ ~ · 
Original paintings Shopping Center ·. __ -;. --' Art supplies Mini-mall Mishawaka 
219-256-0111 
N 0 W 
PE-N DRAGON AND 
SOUTH SHORE 





~Sizu/a~ 

on U.S. 31 Mtween lliles. So. B•d-FrM P•rtin&-613-USO 
''e~rafter year, scmeslerI alter semester, the CollegcMastcr from Fidelitv Union Life has lx.-cn ttic most acceptl~ most popular plan on campuses all overAmenca. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union Collcgel\tlastcr · Field Associate in your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 

~ 

j 
•
j 

tors. -McNeill and Pomerleau anticipate that the year will cost approximately $3000. ­
"We don't want the students to make a cent but we don't want them to lose money either. We will make an effort to find a subsidy for each student according to his needs," McNeill added. Pomerleay continued, "'We urge interested people to contact us right away so we can start in­terviews right after break. " 
Further information concerning the Latin America "Year-Off" program is available from Pomerleau (1168) or McNeill (7385). 


6 the observer 
r ~ At inlorm:zl meeting 
r 
Republiccm candidates express stands 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 
Republican candidates in the November election spoke to an informal gathering in the LaFortune ballroom last night. 
William Bontrager, candidate for state senate, Robert Ducomb and Richard Lindsey, candidates for state representatives and Jack Ellis, candidate for county. com­missioner discussed student Issues in the upcoming election. 
Lindsey and Ducomb supported lowering the legal drinking age. In the past, both have voted for bills to lower the age to 20. 
Bontrager, however, came out in opposition to any lowering of age. He was concerned that such action would lead to an increase in automobile accidents involving drunken drivers. 
"A car is a dangerous in­strument," he explains. "An 18 year old only has two years of driving experience under his belt and psychologically can't accept alcohol as an older person." He may favor lowering to the age to 20, but he first wants to see statistics from Michigan con­cerning accidents caused by drunken drivers since that state lowered its legal age. 
"I just can't buy 18 year old drinking," said Bontrager. He also can't see someone being respon­sible for a minor he doesn't serve but knows is drinking. 
Ducomb pointed out that when the proposal was last under discussion in the Indiana legislature, most of the argument 
centered around prohibition of 
Proposes alternative 

Carlllichael criticizes 
by Matt Yokom Staff Reporter 

alcohol rather than lowering the age. "That wasn't the issue at all!" he exclaimed. 
Ducomb believes the University overreacted to the court decisions this past spring and summer on who has responsibility when minors drink. "I think we've gotten away from the University being a parent away from home as compared to the past." 
However, he said that Notre Dame has a legitimate concern to not let social situations exist where 
alcohol  can be consumed.  "The  
University  would  then  be  liable  
and can be sued," he said.  

Ducomb feels the drinking age inevitably will be lowered , but he has no idea how soon. "It would be 
fatal though if one of the states that passed the law has it repealed," he warned. 
In regards to the increasing 
numbers of off-campus burglaries, Ellis urged students to support the police stystem. Ellis also observes 
•t 1• 
political corruption in localCapl a JSlllgo~ernment. "Those getting. in 
ofhce aren't necessanly who you know, not what you know, that ~ets candidates in." 
qualified," Ellis explained.  "It's  
Stokely Carmichael, who  
visited N D yesterday,  
proposed "scientific  
socialism" for the world  
of the future.  He forsees  
an end to our present self­ 
destructive capitalism.  
.  

Lindsey seemed anxious to be helpful in regards to landlord­tenant laws. He said they haven't been discussed in the last two years. "If these problems come up, give me a call," he said. Lindsey explained that in the past people have made him aware of problems and in reponse he drew up legislation to cope with it. 
Bontrager is a lawyer and has represented landlords in the past. 

He explained that "if you go to the city with building code problems you run into a political mess because of local control. It should be a state control matter." 
Lindsey is against passing the Equal Rights Amendment. "It's not a necessity," he explained. "The best approach would be to change state laws before a national amendment is passed," Lindsey said. 
Bontrager also opposes passing the ERA. "From studies, ap­proximately 300 state laws would be affected and the courts will have to start over again," stated Bontrager. 
Ducomb pointed out every state would have two years from the ratification to get existing laws to comply with the amendment. 

---------------~--------~----------,._-~~---~~~--~--~--... ........ 
Wednesday, October 23, 1974 

the observer 
7 


Chrysler reports $8 million .Joss 
DETROIT <UPI) -Chrysler Corp., the nation's No. 3 automaker, reported an $8 million third quarter loss Tuesday and indicated it may have to tighten its belt. 
The loss compared with a $17.4 loss the company suffered in the July-September quarter last year, when it was hit by a nine-day United Auto Workers strike. 
Sales for the period this year were $2.8 billion, a 21.7 per cent improvement over $2.3 billion a year ago. costs per vehicle. 
For the first nine months Townsend also said the cost Chrysler sales totaled $8.5 squeeze could hurt the firm's billion with profits of $21.4 attempts to meet new safety 
million, compared with sales of and antipollution regulations in $8.4 billion and earnings of $181 the next few years because the million a year ago. necessary financial captial
It was the worst nine-month won't be available· 

performance for Chrysler since Townsend, like his counter­it tqrngd in a $15.2 million loss parts at Ford ann General in 1,70 
Motors, urged the governmentChrysler Chairman Lynn to declare a moratorium on the 
Townsend said the company implementation of new regula­has embarked on a cost-eutting tions. 

program, but despite price GM will report its third increases of $415 on 1975 models quarter earnings next Mondayit still has $249 in unrecovered with Ford following on Wednes-

Own production means 
Carntichael proposes socialisnt 
(continued on page 6) 
The proposed system must diametrically oppose capitalism and, for me, that system is scientific socialism." 
Carmichael based this system upon the "love of humanity, not profit. It is the only way," he said. Carwichael told nearly 200 people at Haggar Hall that socialism supports "the development of man, not acquisition of wealth," and would "push man to a higher state." 
"People must own and control the means of production," he continued. This system, he added, would be a "planned system, which, properly planned, will meet the needs and wants of the people." 
One of the many questions from the audience was "What will bring 
about  the  destruction  of  
capitalism?"  Carmichael  
responded,  "Only  through  

revolution, through force." He later stated, "I know America will be destroyed. In order to achieve a good end, there must be blood­shed; but one principle must be minimal bloodshed." 
"Socialism can be transferred more readily to Africa than at­tained in America," Carmichael 


Stadium Juniper
" 
~ 
i-----------·---------­EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER-200YDS.ON LEFT. 
DISCOUNT AVAILABLE CALL AHEAD FOR KEGS 
9800 
contended. Carmichael, who now lives in Africa, added, "The black man will be the vanguard that will bring about scientific socialism." 
Carmichael, by espousing Pan­Africansim, noted "The black man must look and gear his energies to Africa to make it socialistic and thus make a valuable contribution to the world." The founder of the All-African Peoples Revolutionary Party, he defined Pan-Africansim as "total liberation and unification of the African continent under scientific socialsim." 
During both sessions there was much discussion between the audinece, must of it centering upon defining who is African and should turn his energies back to Africa. Carmichael defined an African on the basis of race. There was, however, much disagreement upon this and other feeling that blacks should concentrate their energy in the United States. There was also some disagreement with Car­michael's critique of American capitalism. 
In other remarks Carmichael stated that American capitalism was threatened by the current economic crisiS! and unstable leadership. He said that this left only "two paths· for capitalism to take, Fascism and Socialism." 
The Boston busing conflict, Carmichael stated, could be resolved "by the destruction of capitalism." 
Nixon, Carmichael commented, "is as American as apple pie. Nixon operated on the capitalistic values of getting as much money as quickly and as slickly as you can." Carmichael also charac­

terized Vice-Presidential­
designate Nelson Rockefeller as "a 
puppeteer who uses people. If you 
destroy a puppet, he can get 
another one. You have to get rid of 
the puppeteer." 
Carmichael's remakrs were 
mostly in response to questions 
and objections voiced by the 
audinece. Carmichael encouraged 
this discussion., calling it a 
"process by which one may more 
objectively analyze the system." 
"My hope is our discussion will stimulate inquiry into what I'm saying," he said. Carmichael stated we must see if the basis of society is true or if bourgeois "illusions of freedom are for only a certain group." 
Dr. Joseph Scott, chairman of the Black Studies Program, in­troduced Carmichael, who was 
greeted by reserved applause. The evening disucssion ran about an hour over the advertised period. 

Cochise, Earp make peace 
ROUGH AND READY, Calif. <UPI) -Wyatt Earp's cousin and Chief Cochise's grandson have made peace in this California gold rush town. 
Ciye Nino Cochise, 100-year­old grandson of the famed Apache chief, visited Hobart Earp, 57, cousin of the legendary U.S. marshal. 
Cochise is Earp's father-in­law, as it happens. 
Earp married Cochise's adopted daughter four years ago and settled in this onetime mining town, a remnant of the 1849 California Gold Rush. 



1ammer

ahe ' 
does it all for you••• 
Especially around job interview time. Before you go for an important interview, stop and see us. You'll look your best. 


All services by appt.­-no waiting Call Now! 232-6622 

day. should be ready to return to the "We are reducing fixed costs, ~­market," he said. 
combining operations where possible and reorganizing dp­partments for better cost control and improved efficien­cy," Townsend said in a financial report to sharehol­ders. 
"We are reviewing capital spending plans and deferring programs that are not immedi­ately essential." 
Townsend said there ap­peared to be a strong, long­term basic demand for motor vehicles despite the current slump. 
"The new car buyers who deferred purchases in 1974 

"Strong used car prices should make it easier to trade 
up to a 19tR model. As a result of these factors, any improve­ment in the general economy should J>e quickly reflected in an imp ovement in automobile sales." 
Townsend said he hoped Congress will act quickly to enact President Ford's "com­prehensive" anti-inflation pro­gram whidt, he said, "will help relieve the critical shortage of equity capital and stimulate the 
investment in new plants and equipment required for im­proved productivity." 
WEEKEND JOB 
• 

Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends 
Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. 
Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 

SENIORS! 

STOP • • • AND GET YOUR SENIOR CLUB CARD ... THIS NOON AT THE LAFORTUN·E MAIN LOBBY 
----------~---~ -­
..~--.-----~~-----~-------------~--------~--~----------------------~---------------------------~-­

Take another look around you, all of you. You may be getting cheated of your Baptismal bir­thright. If you came there with the Catholic faith, will you take it away with you, will you h share it with those who need it? Does your family think you are attending a Catholic college? Can you get The Harmonizer or Our Sunday Visitor, your diocesean newspaper, on campus? How many campus guest speakers last year, and this year, so far, woulxd feel at ease talking with Pope Paul? 
My wife and I celebrated last June the Silver Anniversary of our marriage in Sacred Heart Church. We have a large number of your. generation in our own family. This letter is not submitted in a spirit of 
meanness, but to help you to
school, why then should we be Friday deal) derive from the name bit, they abhor cassocks as 
discover the treasure that is Notre
ACC-
further taxed with the ridiculous strong desire to see genuine their nun associates abhor the holy amounts being asked for concerts Catholicity return to you, other habit, and under these cir­Dame. May Our Blessed Mother 
and Her Son guide you always!

and sports events? Couldn't the· than among the local underground. cumstances, pretty soon they areWhat Gives? students be given some kind of Now, before you get all hot under able to convince a lot of you that discount? In other schools, those the collar, let me explain I might they are "one of the persons."
Dear Editor: Edward Drinkard
attending the college are allowed a <tlld, that in the series in The That old saw about "familiarity 
A.B., B.S.EE.

certain number of tickets at a Wanderer, I have already been breeding contempt" is not so far 
In response. to your article in CLASS of 1944
discount and anything above that accused of being too fair. It is wrong . In maintaining a Tuesday's Observer concerning amount must be bought at G.A. true; I try to give the most presumption of popularity, what 
the "drive" against Elton John 
prices. Also, would it be com­charitable interpretation to all passes for liturty" pretty much 
ticket scalpers, I would like to 
pletely out of line to ask that the events, even those witnessed becomes a popular vote thing. 
uncover for you one of the biggest ACC and student union reserve one personally and aghast in some There's the crux of the problem. 
Sadie Flops

scalps I've witnessed in years: the day of ticket sales just for instances. Additional articles, The liturgy is, properly, the official Student Union's horrendous prices students, before opening the sale to which have not yet seen print, may worship of the church. It includesfor this concert and other events. 
the publi~·r I can't see any problem drift away from this philosophy not only the Mass, but theDoesn't the Student Union exist to 
at all if this was done -I.D.'s somewhat, however. <Footnote: Sacraments and the Divine Office Dear Editor:
service the students on this would have to be presented before The Wanderer is 102 years old; the as well. There is an official Roman 
campus? Or are they just another The Sadie Hawkins Dance of 18
one could buy tickets and this way Reporter, 10.) 
missal with an astounding number 
money-hungry part of this the students would be guaranteed October 1974 may have been a
of options. <For example, how
University? an opportunity to buy tickets. success monetarily, but it surely
If you're going to be Catholic many of you know that the did not achieve the purpose foryou stiJl have to listen to the Po~ "handshake of peace" is op­
I sometimes wonder why and for I'm sure that an improvement in which a dance is designed. When a
and the bishops under him. Most of tiona!? ) In the Proper parts of the whom this University exists. The 
economics would only result in an dance of such magnitude is
those who cite "Vatican II" as Mass, which change daily, there is Administration and its affiliates 
improvement of student interest scheduled, something should be
their justification for whatever _a whole raft of options. But
are so wrapped up in "traditions" and morale and perhaps even a done to even out the ratio of boys 
liturgical experimentation may be homegrown juggling with the parts 
of N.D. and maintaining the more definite support of the Ad­to girls. I see two possible solutions 
sought after are generally those of the Mass, using Graham Greene 
"academic excellence" that I ministration's mandates. to this problem. One is for more of
who are least familiar with the as a replacement of St. Paul, with 
think they have overlooked a the ND-SMC girls to attend the
Sincerely, documents recording the results of Darby O'Gill as acolyte, perhaps, 
crucial and integral part of Notre dances, and the other is to invite
Betty Wood that Church Council. Homegrown these are not among the options. If
Dame: the students. Obviously, girls from neighboring schools to
417 Badin Hall liturgies and deviations may well you go ahead anyway, you put
Notre Dame doesn't care one way come to the dances.
be emotionally stimulating but are yourself outside the Catholicor the other what the students feel simply not Catholic. Those who Church along with the celebrant of 
as long as we pay our bills and The attendence of the ND-8MC
want such things should be honest the monstrosity.
keep our mouths shut and if we girls at the Sadie Hawkins was

CATHQ.IC 
enough to admit this. Changes The Pope was not a bit arbitrary 
can't do that then we are politely disappointing. Granted, the date of 
made by and subsequent to about this Communion in-the-hand 
shown the way out. If you want to the dance was poorly chosen, being 
Vatican II include none of a thing. He gave the bishops of each
Liturgies?
keep up with the traditions of Notre parents weekend and right before
doctrinal nature. There is a new country the right to decide on this
Dame, how about the old.practice a week of many tests, but the girls 
Editor: sharing of authority, but the true Those in such countries as France
of having social events free or at of ND and SMC should get out and 
It was a real thrill to find myself Catholic Church is still headed by an Canada voted in the majority in
least at a minimal cost (and don't come to these dances. Dances are
in the October 2 issue in "Varied the Pope from whom authority favor of the option of Coummunion
tell me that $7.50 for a concert or held so people can have a good
liturgies prevail at ND." It was flows downward through the in-the-hand. In the United Saes,
$21.00 for sports events is time. Unfortunately, it's hard for
not such a thrill to behold the bishops to the pastors in each one year ago, in Washington, the
MINIMUM!!! l the guys to have a good time when 
wording, so I respectfully request di?cese and the other clergy, to the majority of American bishops 
there aren't enough girls. If the
some equal time. Fr. McNally has laity. Universities are not islands voted against Coummunion in-the­
If an activity cannot be held ND-SMC girls aren't going to at­
already denied making the in this; they are still responsible to hand. Honestly; it's no
without losing money or at least tend the dances, I feel that busses 
breaking even, then why have it at statement attributed to him in one the bishop in charge of the diocese "allegation." Look in the Notre should be provided to bring and all? What is the sense of scheduling of "my" two paragraphs. Mr. where they are located Dame Library's file of return girls from other schools. In Elton John or any other big name if Flynn needs to realize that ac-newspapers. It might even be in the past, the bussing of girls has curacy is really much to be sought Authority is watered down by the Heporter. although they
we can't afford to have them caused much controversy. I feel
after in journalistic circles, familiarity. There are priests on probably weren't pleased with this
without raising the prices way that any ND-SMC girl who is upset
heyond the means of most although the kind of example he your campus (men who have the exercise "Jf democracy. Or surely because other girls are bussed in is 
students? may behold in commercial papers awesome power to change bread in the Chicago Tribune and the very selfish. There is an obviousthese days, it is not difficult to fall and wine into the Body and BLood South Bend Tribune. 
need for more girls at social events 
I am quite aware that the ACC is into their same trap. of Christl who feel that popularity I strongly urge Mr. Flynn to at ND. also a service to the South Bend Whatever facts, objections and requires that they be "one of the sequel to his article. Although he Community but shouldn't the opinions I have expressed in my boys." <In deference to the was promine· tl · · 1· 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's Com-series of articles on .my beloved · n Y ll_l view ~ a Perhaps the people organizing
munity be given some kind of alma mater in The Wanderer coeducational status of Notre picture, no tex_t men_twned the ri!es future dances and social events
Dame, and the much-admired of your Umv_er_sity Chaplam, will take not of these 1·deas. Thi·s 1·s Priority and consideration? When. "S<whichd , a Thursday, not a presence f St. M ' JUSt d F th G ffm. The story
is . , o ary s · a -a er r1 has clearly an area which needs so 
the students are already paymg un ay paper • Fr. Hesburgh s ]acent let's make that "per-to be incomplete with this grave h · me through thP nose just to attend this National Catholic Reporter is a sons?':) These priests like the first omission. Back to the typewriter! c angmg. Renee Reder 
********~********************************************************************************** 
EDITORIAL BOARD BUSINESS STAFF COPY READERS NIGHT STAFF Doug Meyers, Bill Sohn Tom Brennan, Christi Bock, Margie lrr, 
Sunday -Bob Quakenbush Bob Brink, BKarilee Clark, Ed Aberger, Michael Boalnd, BarbBusiness Manager -Bob Zogas
Editor-in-chief .. Tom Drape Advertising Manager Bob Monday -Jim Donathen 
Martha Fanning, Karen Hoare, Boylan, Joseph Caverly, JohnManaging Editor .. Marlene Zloza 
McManus Tuesday -Ken Bradford Marti Hogan, Kitie Kerwin, Franz Coffey, Patrick Cunes, Don Daher,News Editor .. Terry Keeney Circulation Manager Paul Wednesday -Pat Hanifin Lanzinger, Don Longano Mike Dewey Kevin Dickerson,
Editorial Editor --Fred Graver 
DeBacco Thursday -Jim Eder NEWS STAFF Cole Finegan, Bill Flanagan,Copy Editor --Jeanne Murphy Gregg Bangs, Norman Bower, Ken Maureen LFiynn, Mark Frazel,
Subscription Manager Dave
Features Editor --J.R. Baker 
Scholl PRODUCTION STAFF Bradford, John DeCoursey, Pat Joesph Greco, Bob Greenhalgh,Sports Editor --Greg Corgan Flynn, Ken Girouard, Bill Gon­Mike Hellinghausen John Hen­Production Manager -HowardSt. Mary's Editor .. Mary Janca PRODUCTION MANAGER ++ zenbach, Mary Fran Hayes, Mark nessy, Peter Johnson, TerryHalleSpecial Projects Editor --AI 
Howard Halle TYPISTS: Michele Jahne, Dennis Kelly, Tom O'Neil, Keelan, Dave Bender, John Rutherford 
Arrieh, Camille Arrieh, Kathy Bob Radziewicz, Theresa Stewart, Kenward, Katherine Lawrence,Senior Night Editor --Bill Brink 
NIGHT EDITORS Grace, Barb Norcross, Barb Haug, Ellen Syburg, Matt Yokom, Paul Robert Madez Virginia McGowan,Photography Editor ·· Zenon Neil Viii, Rick Huber, Jim Landis, Young, Val Zurbliss, Dan Cofall, Jean McQuillan Chris Meehan,Biszinski 
Sunday -Rick Blower Tom Modglin, Mary Tobin, Ann Jay Brandenberger, Jim Jean Murphy, Michael O'Connor,
Contribuintg Editor .. Jim Eder 
Monday -Tom O'Neil Peelor, Janet Carney (afternoon). Donathen, Steve Fitzmorris, Jeffrey Pecors, Sheila Pfister,
Contributing Editor Ann Tuesday -AI Rutherford Don Roos (afternoon>. Karen Maureen Flynn, Mark Gmerek, Mary Reher, Don Reimer, Mike McCarry 
Wednesday -Mike Strickroth Hinks, Tim Murphy COM­Ted Guth, Reggie Haid, Kenneth Rizzo, Bill Seeger, Karen Sikorski,Cc.ntributing Editor --Chris Smith PUGRAPHIC OPERATORS: Phil Lamb, Lonnie Luna, Mauri Miller, Jack llhauy, Tim Strader, JimThursday -Bill Brink
Contributing Editor --Pattie 
Kathy Mills, Bryan Mulroy, Mary Cooney 
Orschein, Bob Steinmetz, M. J. Sullivan, Tom Thanas, John Vozzo, 
AD SALESMEN Foley, Kevin Murphy, Dave Rust Scheller, Mary Setlock, John Joe Wells, Jim Winters, SherryDAY EDITORS 
Shaughnessy, Tim Strader, Ted Antonini, Michele Arrieh, Cathy 
Mike Davis, Pete Kernan, George ASSISTANT NIGHT EDITORS Urso, Annette Buzinski, Sue Busto, Mary Egan, Vivian Elor­
Sunday . Ken Girouard 
Divita, Sue Nelson, Laura 
tegui, Mary Klassen, Sue Rohn,

Adelo, Bob McManus, Dan
Monday -Tom Russo 
Prestine, Martie Ryan, Corinne
McGookey, Ray Ortiz, AD Ginny Faust, Mary Janca, Joe Lillian Solar, Diane Smits, John
Tuesday · George Velcich 
Samules, Kathy Skiba, Anne
LAYOUT: Tom Whelan, Bob Kanabrocki, Andy Praschak, Dan Corrao, Doug Meyers, Erin
Wednesday -Greg Bangs 
Sanchez, John Sellerberg, Tom Rosinsky, Mike Edwards, Brian Dwyer, Amy Fitzgerald, Joel
Tracy

Thursday -Ken Girouard & Val 
Thanas, Val Zurblis Clancy, John Feeney, Fred Herbst, Aoebel, Robert Mader, Jane
Zurblls 
Philip Mancini Stew McGough, Cannon 
__s 


Prisoner's Plea 
ear Editor: 
I'm an inmate at the London Correctional Institution. I come up for my first parole hearing this November 18. I've been here for eight months. I have no family and since I've been here I've received very little mail. I would like to hear from sincere people. I have many interests in life, but my main goal is to meet honest and sincere people. I'm very open-minded and have no hang-ups. 
My name is Larry W. Gorman, born Janu~ry 27, 1947. I have blue eyes, brown hair, am 6' 0", and weigh 185lbs. I hope people will not judge me because of where I'm at; I'm paying for the mistake I made. I'm not in here for anything serious. I will answer all who write. 
Sincerely, Larry W. Gorman 138-226 P.O. Box69 London, Ohio 43140 

Glee Club 
'Twas the night before Monday , and all through the dorm, 
'I 
Every female was studying as is the norm!?! 
We were hungry, haggard, and tired of books. We were giving each other 
those disgusted looks. As we sat uncomfortably 
upon our beds, Nightmares of tests and unfinished papers 
l 
danced through our heads. When what through our wondering 
ears should we hear, But male voices singing the Notre Dame cheer. Away to the windows we flew like a flash. Pulled open the curtains, nearly smashing the glass. We sat there and smiled, as our feet kept the beat. All the while thinking, "You guys are so neat!" We thank you a lot 'cause you showed us again, The "Fighting Irish" spirit of the Notre Dame men. 
McCandless 408 & 409 

Static-CI ing 
Dear Editor: 
Watching that revered classic in all-time movie-making, Young at Heart, which, I believe, was the absolute low for Frank Sinatra <while Doris Day continues to plunge), and losing myself in the stupid plot of a misunderstood piano player (Frank> and a flip­pant coquette (ever-virgin Doris), I was aroused by a startling message which attacks us all about eight times an hour: a television commercial. This was no ordinary buy, sell, subscribe, money, money, money idea, however; for it enlighted every viewer to that feared-the-world-over nemesis, static-cling. 
The problem of static-cling -­that sticky, electric, yecchh we all feel each time we pull on a freshly washed sweater or lie down onto a freshly washed blanket, is a relatively new one in the annals of major human horrors. This is primarily due to the fact that washers and dryers haven't been around that long. But this should not detract from the fact that this has risen to become one of the five major problems on the University of Notre Dame campus today. 
Among these fite bigides: 
(I ,4' l' 
basketball ticket rip-offs, booze on campus being restricted, anti-sex policies of this Administration, and the upset loss of our football team to Purdue University -the worst thing that ever happened to this school -it is clear that static-cling is the problem that has been most under-rated in the great issues of modern day. Surely the time has come to expose this can~erous sore and, hopefully, to begin campus­wide debate as to what can be done to arrest an already rampant disease. Therefore, I made my call to free students everywhere; be they on or off this great campus which still houses freshman dreams such as Knute Rockne , George Gipp, and freedom of opinion and action for all students. These dreams are gone. Why, one asks? Well, old age and a minor. cough took away two of them. The third was claimed by no other than that wicked monster, static-cling. Yes, that glorified fable of fr~dom of speech, opinion, democratic say in what the hell is going on around us and any type say-so in any m~tter has been swept from this campus. It is time to get off our 
rear-ends and speak out what we believe in, give our opinions in University affairs, proclaim 0':11' God-given liberties to all who will hear them. But there must be some method to our madness (don't turn away now just because of the terrible allusion to Shakespeare. I'm only trying to prove to the Administration that I'm as literate as they are -I even spelled his name right). 
First, there must be letters written and organization ac­compllished. Then we can show movies for fun and profit and take a trip to Chicago to study the at­tempts to curb static-cling there. By working within the system this way, we will soon become lost in the rhetoric of fabric softeners, rinse cycles, and the like. We will have reached the ultimate goal of every student organization, which is apathy. So if you don't care, please send your solution to this problem which is causing wide­spread brain deteriorization every day --not to mention one or two cases of baldness. Response is what wer are after; for if we are able to unite under this wor~hy cause. no future foe will hold the students back in their ability to kick the s---out of it. I await any reply. 
Ecstatically yours, Tom Walruth Name printed upon request 


The Soul's Infusion 
As a strict Maritainian Thomist I must, perhaps surprisingly, disagree with Dr. Eugene F. Diamond's assertion in the Oct. 4 Observer (pg. 7) that one can pray with and to all aborted unborn children. For I'm convinced that Jacques Maritain is right in arguing in his essay "Vers une idee thomiste de I'evolution" On process of being Englished by ND prof Joe Evans) that it's not before the later months of pregnancy that the spiritual, immortal soul is infused into the unborn child, replacing an earlier sensory soul nutritive sould. And so I must hold that it is not all unborn children, but only those aborted after in­fusion of their immortal soul, that there can be any question of praying with or to. 
But attention here! Observable data--for example, the fact that by one month after fertilization the embryo and the mother have separate blood systems and separate heartbeats --show that you, for instance, have existed as a distinct organism--irrother 'JI!Ords,, 
~ '" ·•J\1' · n'i • • J,"l',f': ,•, • ·.~", 

as precisely yourseH -ever since (at the latest) the end of the first month of your mother's pregnancy. Which m~ans it's not that your mother c;.. ried first a nutritive self, then a sensory self, then you; it's that she c.-.rried from the start you }ourseH as you evolved from having first a nutritive soul, then a sensory soul, and finally your infused spiritualsoul. 
In short, whatever your view on the time of your spiritual soul's infusion --or even, for that matter, whether or not you hold you have soul at all -it's evident from ob­servable data that it's you yourself who would have been killed by any abortion from the first month onwards of your mother's pregnancy. Thus, if I've disagreed with Dr. Diamond on one point, I !l'Ust agree with him on what I tuink is a more major point of his: spiritual soul or no, those destroyed by abortion from the first month on were not just journeying into life but were in­deed already alive and already themselves and already in every practical sense human beings. 
Mike Ortiz 
Footnote: Maritain's <and my) position is not in the least in­compatible with the Immaculate Conception. I refer anyone in­terested in the matter to Maritain 's above-mentioned essay, in the 1967 Nova et Vetera, pp. 96 and 97. 
Re-Schedule 

the Rally 
Notre Dame Stadium -Oct. 12, 
1974, 1:30 p.m .... another sell out 
crowd .. .in body but empty in Notre 
Dame spirit (I refer to page 10 of 
program). Notre Dame defense 
doing a great job but was there a 
cheer from the student boedy and 
likewise for the offense -HELL 
NO (excuse me-yes-once -each 
time when field goal was kicked 
and touchdown scored).Student 
Body's problem ... Someone told 
tern the final score was to be ND 45 
-Rice 0 and I guess they could not 
accept a 10-3 score. Sitting in 
Section 11, we did more cheering 
than the Notre Dame side. If there 
is a morale problem within, it 
should be the Student Body which 
resolves it be letting the team 
know they're with them throughout 
the game. There should be the 
same showing of spirit as there is 
at the Pep Rally. I make 
referecnce to L.S.U. and other 
southern and western universities' 
game-time spirit. 
I have been a Notre Dame fan 
since the early 40's and it was very 
disheartening to be in attendance 
with Saturday's lifeless gathering. 
If you are still with me, read on, for 
the Notre Dame spirit side of my 
first visit. Arrived Oct. 11, 1974­
had breakfast on campus then 
talked with Digger Phelps -next 
autographs and pictures with Ara 
Parseghian, his coaching staff, 
players and cheerleadesr. Walked 
the campus and saw the many 
points of interest, attended the Pep 
Rally and Knights of Columbus 
rally-and listened to down to earth 
talks by Joe Yonto, Tom Pagna 
and Red Bale my lifetime dream 
came true). 
I raved long enough and I now 
close this memorable weekend 
with "an Irish Blessing " -"May 
the Road rise to meet you. May the 
wind be always at your back. May 
the sun shine warm upon your 
face, the rains fall soft upon your 
fields and until we meet again, 
May God hold you in the palm of 
His hand." Signed: 
R.E. O'Dwer, Sr. 
US 

Wednesday, October 23, 1974 the observer 9 
................................................. ·-111111111-11 

Think About It 
Steve Quehl 
lllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIUIII 
Why can't John Macheca und~rstand that forcing st~dents to remove their cars from the parking lots on game days IS an un­necessary inconvenience? Anyone who pays $25 a year for the privilege of parking a half mile from dormitories and classrooms should not be asked to get up before eight a.m. on Saturday to relocate his vehicle even farther away. Let the alumni and other game patrons park their party wagons on Green Field. Or better yet, let them park on campus, so that fresh~en,,whc have ~et to see a party within thehallowed confines of our Idyllic community, can watch the purveyors of blessed bucks i:"teract socially in. a mature and responsible manner before stumbhng over to the stadium. 
····-·-·--­
It comes as no surprise really that the administration would add such an insult to their burgeoning account of misdemeanors. But the policies of late have waxed a bit ludicrous when one considers that the average student pays over $4000 to attend what has become a quasi-reform school. It's amazing that the supposedly intelligent inhabitants of Domeland haven't ceased to view the situation from between their knocking knees and started to raise hell. Who wants 
to pay double the amount they should to see their friends play basketball at the ACC? Who wants to be forced to live off-campus in over-priced, poorly-maintained dwellings near people who'd sooner rob you than wave to you? Then again, who wants to live on campus iin an atmosphere that can most charitably be described as stifling? No one would have to if enough noise were made. As long as the students continue to permit Big Brother to walk all over them, however, they are going to pay the price for their in­difference. Concern for grades or fear of administrative reprisal should not force thinking human beings to suffer a university en­vironment that fails to educate outside the classroom, fails to stimulate personal growth, and, yes, fails to be fun. 
····-··-····-·---·· 
It is painfully obvious that the situation now at Notre Dame demands action on the part of the students. A number of ad­ministrators need to have the sand shaken out of their pants. For too long they have failed to admit that college students are capable of acting on their own recognizance. Maturity cannot be configured and pressed into submissive heads. It must be allowed to develop independently in each individual. If the students continue to endure present administration attempts to "guide" them, an emergence from the Dark Age of du Lac may never occur. 
Rocks thrown throug Ad. Building windows may not be the answer. But some kind of definitive action is needed to light a fire under the coagulated_group who would aspire to positions as the world's highest-paid baby sitters. Hopefully concerned people will put down their books and their beers for a time to blow a little steam on the GQlden Dome. It's taken too long for them to realize that within that sanctum sanctorum is an unholy mess. 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiUIUIIIIUIIIIIUIIIIUIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIWIIIIUIUIHIIIIIHIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
~' 


j 





THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Business Manager 
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  NEWS:  283-1715  BUSINESS:  283-7471  
Fred Graver Editorial Editor  Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  
Bob McManus  Terry Keeney  Bob Zogas  

News EditorAdvertising Manaaer October 23, 1974 



Blame the ACC 
Who is to blame for the haphazard decision on determining the selling policy implemeneted in the sale of Elton John tickets? 
The ACC ticket sales officials. 
Elton John concert tickets went on sale last Monday at 9:00 a.m. and were sold out at 11:30 a.m. at the Student Union Ticket Office and at 1:30 p.m. at the ACC Ticket Office. 
Tickets were bought at an ex­traordinarily fast rate, as each buyer was able to purchase a maximum of 12 tickets. Setting this high limit was a perfect opportunity for scalpers to invest $7.50 for each ticket bought and to sell these tickets at a much higher price than originally paid. 
The  12  ticket  limit  was  designed  
without  concern  for  students  who  
inevitably  must  buy  tickets  from  

scalpers. The ACC must not have foreseen the opportunity for someone to make a fast buck by scalping tickets at ridiculously high prices existed. 
Originally ACC officials requested a maximum of twenty tickets per customer. But the Student Union in­tervened and a compromise of 12 was set. 
The selling policy should have been handled with more concern in caring for the common interests of the students. 
Granted, by imposing such a wide margin of sales to an individual, the ACC made their work easy and efficient in andling money and crowds. 
But the ACC had little foresight in a· tributing to the problem of ticket sales in the aftermath, i.e., scalping. 
One proposal to avoid reckless ticket selling in the future is to set a limit of four tickets, maximum, for each customer to insure equal distribution and prevent the hoarding of tickets for the sole purpose of scalping. 
Another proposal, which might en­corporate the four ticket maximum, is a system whereby ticket orders are mailed with the exact payment. An order would be completed and filled as soon as it was received. Orders would be accepted until all tickets were sold out. 
At present, efforts can be made to curb some of the activities of scalpers and the unfair practice of re-selling tickets at high prices. 
Regulations should be made by all hall staffs, Huddle managers, and student organizations regarding the posting of for-sale notices and ads which announce the sale of concert tickets at high prices. All advertisements should be required to list the amount of tickets for sale, the looation of the seats, and price for each ticket. 
Students themselves should be aware of the profits that scalpers make. When looking to buy tickets, they should shop around for the closest possible price to the original selling fee. Scalpers are in competiton for business. When they do not receive their asking price because someone else is selling cheaper, they will inevitably lower their rates. 
ACC ticket sales officials can deter­mine a selling policy that will insure fairness. They can design a policy that will avoid financial disaster for people interested in purchasing tickets second­
hand. Jeanne Murphy 

left in th• lurchHIUinWUIIII-IIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIII­
ELTON JOHN 
'=" _.,...,.~,----~~hur:~!-:. harmcm 
Last column posed the question 'How long can the ticket lines be?', and apparently the answer was 'Longer than you can imagine." By 6:00am Monday morning the lines at the ACC had reached 260 apiece, with three lines. By opening time the lines had doubled in length. "A' line itself extended from gate 10 out past the lit Coming Attractions sign on Juniper Road. Included in the line were an assortment of teeny-boppers, students, business-men, and little old ladies. 
Suds, Normy, Lightnin, Hard and two other honky-tonk heroes from Pangborn's Bowery had begun camping out Thursday night. What prompted this display of sheer courage (or stupidity) has been a matter of speculation. Surely the nights weren't spent for the dubious honor of seeing Elton John from the first row, nor could profit have been the driving force: over 100 hours is a little long even for $200 (and they didn't make nearly that much). They most likely did it, in true Notre Dame tradition, for the hell of it. 
By 11:30 at LaFortune and 1:30 at the ACC, the tickets were sold out. In fact, the tickets were probably sold out by 7:00am., but it took 41h hours to distribute them. 
Rumors were rife that Elton John tickets had already been sold and distributed before Monday morning. Several explanations have been advanced by Those In Charge: counterfeit tickets leaks from the printers <this was the case in the Elvis concert), ~r that the rumors were unfounded. These rumors did, however, manage to appear over WRBR, WSND, and in the South Bend Tribune and some were even apparently verified. Still, come Monday morning Suds & Co. managed to cop the first five rows of C section (on the floor> so if any tickets did leak out (and it does appear they did) they ":"e~en_'t prime s~ats. Even the Student Union, in an orgy of self-disciplme (smartmg no doubt. from last year's ticket scandal) took only the 6th through 8th rows for themselves. 
Current scalper prices: 
Padded seats: about $10 
Floor seats: about $15 
Good floor seats about $20 
First row: $30 or $40 

Bi~l McLean, the Ombudsman, issued a stern warning against possible attempts to scalp at LaFortune just before ticket sales opened Monday. In fact, he later posted a sign stating: 'If caught scalping, tickets will be confiscated and money returned. The Omnbudsman will be looking for scalpers." (although it would seem odd hye would misspell Ombudsman). One can't help but wonder if he is naive enough to think that such a toothless warning would do anything to discourage scalps, especially when the school is practically powerless in the matter. Notre Dame administration has no authority to prevent ticket sales from one person to another. Only in the case where a legal disclaimer has been printed on the ticket would it be illegal to resell, as in the case of football tix. 
Moreover, what did Bill and the Administration think a student was going to do with 12 tickets, invite 11 girls? Can the Ad­ministration and Bill McLean fool themselves into thinking that Suds et al. had 66 frineds for whom they were also buying? 
You can find quite a few students around decrying the ripping off of students by students through scalping. They portray the scalper as a greedy soul bent on gyping his own grandmother. The prime reason for the existance of such 'immoral" scalpers, however, can be traced back to the ridiculous policy of allowing 12 tickets per student. Of policy of 2 or even 4 would almost entirely eliminate any large scale scalping operations. In addition, staggering the price of tickets accoring to seating position would undoubtedly reduce the amount of profit for scalpers. For some strange reason, though, the Administration chooses to act to prevent scalping in the area where they have the least power, through private student sales rather than through the Ticket Committee. 
Moreover, no one is twisting anyone's arm to buy from a scalper. Indeed, at this point it appears that the potential scalpers are waiting for the potential scalpees to get in touch with them. 
Students received another good screw from the school due to the fact that, instead of the usual 5Q-50 distribution of tickets between LaFortune anc the ACC, the ticket distribution turned out to be more on the order of 20·80, and since the purchasers at the ACC were predominantly townie's, this change gave a greater per­centage of the tix to non-students. 
Overhears quote of the week : From one office worker at the Ad '-lidg to another, "Did you buy any John Elton tickets?" 
by Garry Trudeau 

OUONESBURY 
the observer 

t15TcN, YOfJ 7111~ 
JACK! AR£THA I I'M TRYIN6 70 NO CROSS-Night Editor -· AI Rutherford 
WHAT {)0 YOll /?(/N A 8AL.ANCW 
POUINATION Assistant Night Editor .. Ginny Faust
THINK YOtJ'RE EC05YST£M Iff!?£! 
Layout·· Rich Nugent, Tom O'Neil, Marti Hogan
• fit ft
{)0/NG?l tJNT!t-MAY/
YOtJ KNOW TH~ Copy Readers -· Ken Bradford, Bob Quakenbush I RtJt-65! Day Editor --George Velcich
\

" tJH.. Editorials --Fred Graver, Ken Girouard Features -· J.R. Baker, Norm Bower Sports·· Greg Corgan, Bill Brink, Bill Delaney, Bob Kissel Typists ·· Don Roos, Karen Hlnks, Jim Landis, Barb Norcross, Nell VIII, Dave Rust Compugraphic Operator .. M.J. Foley Picture Screener .. Albert D'Antonio Ad Layout .. Tom Whelan 
-~~~----~---~~-------~-~----.w~•----~-----------­
Wednesday, October 23, 1974..____:t...:.h.::_e=--o=--=b--=s::_e=--r-'-v--=e--=r----'l=---=-l 
outrider 
pyrrhic victory for congress 
by garry wills 
At the very time when House represen­tatives were congratulating President Ford for his cooperation with the legislative branch. Ford twice vetoed the bill by which 
Congress tried to resume its role in the making of foreign policy. 
The President was not only asking for a free hand in Cyprus when he told Congress to trust Kissinger; he was also asking 
Congress to play his accomplice in the breaking of the law. As usual, it was the Congress that backed off. Anxious to get out on the election hustlings, the House and Senate leaders agreed to com compromise 
bill that allows the President a free-hand if he determines that aid to Turkey would further the chances for peace. Since the President a has been claiming that all along, Congress in a effect passed his bill by putting his main points in a subordinate position. 
It is the same old story. We are back at the Tonkin Gulf resolution. Presidents have not had to usurp the Senate's power to make war, peace, and foreign policy. 
For a while, in the wake of Watergate, there was grave talk of reversing this 



a letter to the president 
Dear Mr. President, 
I'm having a helluva time. I watched you on television the other night while waiting to see the World Series, and your message really got to me. Ever since I heard you tell us that the best way to fight inflation was not to spend money and not to waste anything, process. But on the first crucial test of congressional will, the President prevailed.It is true that Congress puta ban on active combat weapons going into Cyprus, and set a new deadline for cutting off all aid to Turkey (December 10). But the members were bending our own law even in this show of "toughness." 
Aid is supposed to be suspended automatically when U.S. arms are used aggressively-as they certainly were when Turkey pushed out its lines in Cyprus. The President wanted Congress just to ignore that law. And Congress, instead of upholding it, decided to break it a little bit for now. It is a mark of the low state to which Congress has fallen that Senator Eagleton called this weak half-enforcement of the law a victory for the legislative branch. 
But at least Congress is beginning to question the idea that all power should be surrendeded to Henry Kissinger, who only seems able to work miracles when he is feeling universally wanted This Cyprus episode, along with the Chile affair, should teach us something about Dr. Kissinger's attitude toward the law. And this, in turn, should make us leery of sending Dr. 
Kissinger's prime loyal protege, Alexander Haig, to preside over our major treaty organization. No doubt the Haig view of our policy's responsiveness to the nation to national law, and to the nation's Senate is formed along the same lines as Kissinger's own. In the circumstances, to put him in charge of NATO IS EFFECTIVELY TO TAKE NATO outside ol the sphereof Senate control-which means outside the Con­stitution. 
If Congress wants to undo itself forever, as an international instrument, the means are at hand: just place no obstacle in the way of General Haig's appointment. 

I've been trying to follow your advice with very questionable results. 
For example, the next morning I went down to the supermarket and bought some soup bones. I made the mistake of telling the butcher I wasn't going to buy any steak until the price came down. 
That evening I received a visit from two members of the cattleman's association who said they had heard about what I said in the supermarket, and they wanted me to know that they were having the worst year in their history and if I didn't give a damn about the food industry in this country, they wouldn't give a damn about me. I explained to them that you had said the only way to fight inflation was to live within my budget-­
and you know what they did? They shot two steers in the head on my front lawn. Itcost me $89.50 to have the carcasses carted away. 
The next day I had a call from an automobile dealer who told me the new models had just arrived at the showroom and advised me to come down right away. I told him that, because of your plea in Kansas City, I decided toforegothe luxury of a 1975 car until the economy was straightened out. 
An hour later three officers of the United Auto Workers Union broke into my office and asked me what I thought I was doing. I told them the car I owned was perfectly satisfactory, and I really didn't need a new car. Well, you should have heard what they said, Mr. President. They accused me of creating unemployment in the most im­portant industry in America and shouted 
.that if everyone thought the way I did we would have the greatest depression in the history of the country. I tried to calm them down by pointing out that everyone in this 


buchwald 
Art Buchwald, America's greatest humor columnist, will write regularly for the Observer starting today. 
Buchwald's column today appears in more than 350 newspapers around the world and is avidly read by millions. The writer has been called the most comic American observer of the world scene since Mark Twain. 
Born in Mount Vernon, New York, on 
October· 20, 1925, Buchwald and his three sisters lived in an orphanage and a series of foster homes before finally settling in Queens with their father, Joseph a curtain manufacturer. By then Buchwald was 16 and an indifferent student. 
On his seventeenth birthday he joined the United States Marine Corps. He was assigned to the Fourth Marine Air Wing and spent three and a half years in the Pacific. 
On his return to civilian life, Buchwald entered the University of Southern 

--the comic observer 

California. He wrote a column for the college newspaper and was managing eidtor of the campus humor magazine. 
F.:~rly in the 1960's Buchwald switched his home base from Paris to Wahsington, D. C. In recent years his columns have featured humor found in the nation's capital. His home newspaper now is the Washington Post. 
Although most of Buchwald's columns are now written from Washington, the writer will go anywhere he thinks there's a good story-and do just about anything to get it. 
by art buchwald 
country had to bite the bullet--but they were so infuriated, they threw a chair through my window, which cost me $56 to replace. 
Well, I got home that night and had a visit from Richard Kaltenborn who works in a children's clothing store. Richard had just been laid off from the store because no one was buying clothing. Ever since your message, they haven't sold two pairs of jeans. The store told Richard if people started buying again, he would be rehired. The reason he came go see. me is that he was strapped for cash and asked if I could loan him $400. I had no choice but to loan him the money since we hadn't bought children's clothing ourselves, and I felt responsible for Richard's unemployment. 
Just as Richard left I received a call from Mr. Rumstead who owns the local theater. He wanted to know if I was coming down to see "The Great Gatsby" that night. I said 
-

no, we weren't, because we were fighting inflation. "That does it," he said. "I'm closing the theater for good." 
Because the kids have no movie theater to go to any more, they're now hanging around the house with their friends, and it has cost me $45 for beer and pretzels alone. 
Of course, we're not going to go near a store for Christmas, as that is really throwing money down the drain. Somehow the newspaper I work for found out about it, and I got a call from the advertising department. The man said if we're not going to get advertising and they won't be able to pay me for the column. I'll be very frank with you, Mr. President, this could put me in a class with my friend Kaltenborn. 
But this is neither here nor there. What I'm really writing to you about is, could I please have my WIN ,flag to fly over my house? I want everybody to know how easy it is to fight inflation. 
Economically yours, A.B. 
Today's Point-Counterpoint page takes on a new look, with new features. The old 
format, of inviting members of the ND;SMC community to contribute will still be used, but an expanded format has been established. Garry Wills and Art Buchwald will be making regular appearances on the 
He has. chased goats. up. and down the-page, along with other columnists and mountams of Yugoslaviaj.:!hmbed trees.to get cartoonists Th Ob · •t 
a bird's eye view of the races at . . ·. e server mv1 es con-Longchamps and traveled to Turkey for a ~nbubon~, m the form .of columns B:nd firsthand impression of a Turkish bath. Illustratwns, to the Pomt-Counterpomt 
Buchwald is the author of a dozen best-page. selling books, He also appears regularly on the lecture circuit because he enjoys meeting people. L-----------------' 
Wednesday, October 23, 1974
12 the observer 
-------'-''-'· 


chasing mules, goats and panthers 
by dan reagan 
There is a forgotten hero at the University of Notre Dame. He performed time and again before thousands of people, had a book written about him, almost starred in a movie and is immortalized in a stone plaque on the campus. The forgotten hero is the mascot. Clashmore Mike, 
The History 

The tale of (')ashmore Mike, an Irish terrier. begins somewhere around the early 1930's and continues until the 1960's when the chain of dogs was finally phased out. According to one source, the original mascot of the Fighting Irish was a gift to Knute Rockne in 1930, who put the dog in the care of a student manager. The dog never became the mascot and was forgotten as a result of Rockne's death which occurred in 1931. In Cleveland's Municipal Stadium on November 19th. 1932, another mascot ap­
. peared, Shaun Rue, a gift of Mr. Charles Otis, breeder of Irish terriers. The gift.-came in response to Navy's mascot, the goat, the Midshipmen being Notre Dame'si opponent of the day. Shaun Rue never received any more publicity and it wasn't 
• 
until three years later that a true Notre Dame mascot arrived. 
Clashmore Mike I came to South Bend in 1935 as a gift of a Chicago kennel owner. He was presented to Head Coach Elmer Layden who in turn donated the terrier to the school. 
Mike, ashe was affectionately known by the students, performed for ten years until 1945 when he passed away and was properly buried on the stadium grounds by custodian Joe Dierickx. 
The tradition was continued ·when Jim McGarraghy, a "synthetic alumnus" of Chicago, presented Head Coach Hugh 
-
Something new in modern drama, generally called "experimental laboratory theatre", is rapidly spreading across the country. College campuses in particular are supplementing their standard dramatic fare with this different approach to the theatre. On Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, October 22-24, at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall, students and faculty will have the chance to witness this concept when the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Student Laboratory Committee presents its first offering of the semester--"Woycezk" by Georg Buchner. 
It is appropriate that the season com­mences with this play, written in 1836, because the experimental theatre begins with Georg Buchner. A pioneer in epic theatre, Buchner who was also a political radical and the possessor of PhD. in anatomy, died at age 26 having written only three plays. "Woycezk", his last effort is unfinished. The play was first produced in 1910 at which· time it stimulated much ac­
• • . p ' I I \ ·) ~' ~ • ,• ~· 

Devore with Clashmore Mike II. Mike II remained at Notre Dame for four years until he finally took for the hills in the fall of 1949. McGarr:tghy stepped in once again and contributed the third Irish mascot, Shan­nonview Mike I, so named because he came from the Shannonview kennel in Chicago. After Shannonview Mike I, there are no chronological records concerning the Clash­more tradition. At least two more dogs followed, Clashmore Mike III and Shan­nonview Rudy. In a June 'n, 1961 article by Joe Doyle of the South Bend Tribune there is a note which speaks of the death of the Clashmore Mike of that time. Outside of a picture of a terrier mascot in 1964 there are 
no further records of any sort which tell of 
the disappearance of the Clashmore 
tradition. 

The Stories 
Mike is best remembered by the way he challenged the opposing team's mascot. The Irish terrier's teeth were bared in pride and anger when he defiantly chased the Navy Goat, Army Mule and Pitt Panther. His debut as mascot in the Pitt game of 1935 provided his first test. When confronted by the Panther, Mike's reaction was one of cowardice but after given his Irish blood time to boil he quickly disposed of the foe by chasing him into the stands. 
Through his frequent vacations from the Notre Dame campus Mike received national publicity. His first desertion in October of 1937 became a news item flashed by wire services to newspapers across the country. His recovery came just in time for that week's game against the Navy. The only unfortunate escape was the successful runaway of Clashmore Mike II who fled in 
tivity in the German theatre. 
Critics say that both the realistic and expressionistic theatre movements exist in the play. Dr. Miles Coiner, a recent addition to the ND-SMC theatre department and director of the play, explains, "We are attempting to use both movements within the work. There will be a chorus ... and the play becomes almost cinemagraphic in nature composed of 26 brief scenes--some fairly shocking--each scene juxtaposed with another." 
The experimental laboratory theatre is in its second year here on campus. Last semester three plays were presented as experimentation in form or idea. Dr. Coiner who serves as faculty coordinator for the Laboratory Theatre Committee urges any person or group with a serious proposal for an innovative play to submit requests either to the drama department secretary or to Dr. Coiner himself. The porposal is then reviewed. by the committ~ of five students. 
",Right no-v· :w,e are waiting for our. next 1949 and never returned. 
Mike often traveled with the team. In 1944 before the first away game of the season much consideration was given to retiring an aging Clashmore Mike from the traveling squad. When Coach Ed McKeever was faced by a number of Irish football players the decision was reversed and the ten year 
old mascot boarded the train. On one trip the team visited an extremely plush restaurant in New York which refused Mike the pleasure of dining. The team promptly turned and left only to be followed quickly by the owners who had a change of heart and gladly made an exception. 
In an unauthorized biography about Coach Frank Leahy, called The Frank Leahy Legend, by B. J. Williams, the author tells of Leahy's use of the mascot as a weapon in tight game situations. Leahy, known for game saving gimmics, supposedly had the dog trained to seize the football when Notre Dame had used all of its time outs. The dog's antics would cause a halt in the game, giving the Irish squad a free fest. The credibility of this story is somewhat questionable. 
A true and humorous story about Mike comes from the days when Terry Brennan was coach. On picture day, before the start of the season, there was an attempt to snap a shot of the mascot with Head Coach Brennan and the team captain. Evidently Mike mistook Brennan for the Navy Goat and used his arm for lunch. Moments later the dog smoothly walked over to a sign reading, "1956, Notre Dame's 68th Football Season," raised his leg and decorated it. That year Notre Dame finished with two wins and eight losses. 
The Houtine 
Dan Hanley, manager of the fieldhouse, took it upon himself to be Mike's caretaker and trainer. Mike had two homes, one in the fieldhouse, the other underneath the stands in the stadium. Ha,nley carefully trained the dog, molding him into the frisky, playful mascot, a personality pattern that all Clash­mores followed. 
For his appearances before the crowds he had costumes for cold, hot and wet weathPr. 

The color coordinated, stream-lined gold and blue outfits were created by Spalding Brothers. 
Mike's routine consisted of two parts. He led the team onto the field and then at halftime he jumped hurdles and did battle with the opposing mascot. 
The Legend 

Clashmore Mike received his finest tribute when he became the main character in a book. In 1949 a book written by Leila Hostiser, entitled Mascot Mike of Notre name, was published. A story for juveniles, it told of Clashmore Mike Hand his meeting with the Army Mule. Mike also came close to becoming the star of a television show. The idea for the show was concocted by NBC-TV in 1954. The network wished to do the production with the title, "The Dog with Five Thousand Masters." It would have been part of a series known as Captain llartz and His Pets which was primarily concerned with pets, their stories, care and keeping. The show never got off the ground. 
Clashmore Mike still looks out over the campus. A stone plaque places him next to Rockne on the east facade of Alumni Hall. Ivy covers both Mike and Rock and the figures are only visible in winter after the leaves have fallen. So at the start of the season which made them legendary figures they are no where to be found. They are quieted by the deafness of time, forgotten time. But they wait and soon they emerge out of the ivy, standing proud like all good Notre Dame heroes. 
•



1n the acting 
proposal," said Dr. Coiner. "This is not 
limited strictly to the drama major. 
Frankly, we would like people outside the 
department who are interested in theatre 
yet might not have had the chance to enter 
into a regular drama production to submit 
some ideas." The fate of the laboratory 
theatre rests in the hands of its participants. 
The selection of a cast is determined by an 
open audition, the date of which is posted 
around campus. Dr. Coiner points out that 
with this production only two members of 
the cast are drama majors. 
This play, as others promoted by the 
laboratory theatre, will be presented in a large third floor room in Washington Hall. The room is bare with no defined stage area or formal seating arrangement. If need be, folding chairs can be brought in, but the spectators usually are seated on the floor. "This room," continues Dr. Coiner, "is a very flexible one. In it are a few light fix­tures, some cubes, and a few flats." Con­'sequently. thelaboratory,theatre<is abM •it! 

by andy peavler 
experiment not only with the type of play but also with the props and stage arena. 
Ifcertain costumes or props are required, they may be borrowed from the drama department. If the item is not in stock, it may be bought because each lab theatre production is given a $50 budget (as well as having the royalties paid) by the drama department to cover any incidental ex­l)enses. However, Dr. Coiner emphasizes that with the laboratory theatre, "The idea is to get the actors to carry the play--rather than relying on the more conventional realistic props and costumes. The story is in the acting." 
Although the performances are free, tickets are required for admission. They may be picked up during office hours from the drama department secretary at St. Mary's. It should be noted that with each of the three performances, the audience will be limited to fifty, and each person wil• have to prt>Sent a ticket at the door. · 


Wednesday, October 23, 1974 

the observer 13 
Letters Ta R Lanely Eiad 
sex and the single priest 
reverend rabert rjriffin 

There are two highly personal subjects not all the victories in life are written upon whole image was based on bluffs and only this: that love, being an adults' which are very difficult for any human the score card of the sexual athlete. pretensions. In private conversations with passion, demands a woman's exercise of being to speak about: one of them is faith, So then, speaking as one who has not been their confessors, they were embarrassed by virtue and honor, courage and honesty. the other is sexuality. If you are a believing rendered completely hors de combat by the their chastity. Anyone can lie, and many "Get your head together, honey, so that at creature, such as a priest is supposed to be, Roman discipline, though not entirely free have. Don't be one of them. least one of you is acting like a grown-up," I with professional accomplishments in the of its wounds, either, we come again to the It is not innocence, but the loss of in­said. "Ask yourself whether, under the worship experience; or, if you are a celibate subject of human sexuality on this Catholic nocence that worries me. Last year, a girl circumstances, if you were both living on living as a bachelor to whom the deeper campus, where some people think like came to me in tears. "It's my boy friend," separate continents, you still wouldn't be too intimacies are forbidden, it is embarrassing Desert Fathers, others live like the she said. "Every weekend, he insists that close together." to admit that at times you are more at home decadents of a dying empire, a few suffer we sleep together." The girl didn't want Later on, when they broke up, the boy with your appetites than you are with your from the complex of being virgin-martyrs, them to sleep together; but the boy insisted, came to see me. "You shouldn't have told absolutes. Faith is a grace-touched ex­and one or two search for playmates-any and because she loved him, they spent every her to leave me," he said. perience of the heart and mind with (rl)d; playmate~£ the month; or if a month is too weekend as man and wife. The biggest "I didn't tell her to leave you," I said. "I sex is an awareness of the animal that long, a weekend will do. These categories, difficulty came, she said, because the boy told her to figure it out for herself. The sinews your humanity. Faith is a game of of course, are not exhaustive. Most people, friend thought she was on the pill. "I'm choice, among other things, was between deities playing at hide-and-seek; sex is the I suppose, are not active practitioners of the terrified to take the pill," she said. "I'm her self-respect and your selfishness." business of instincts that never slumber or "I wasn't being selfish," he said. "I really sleep. Faith can be elusive; sex can become loved her." obsessive. Faith is a food; sex is a hunger. "And she loved you," I said. "But if you Faith can redeem; sex will sell you into had taken one close look at her feelings, you bondage, body and soul. would have known you were destroying her. 
Ordinarily, it can only be an em­Loving a woman means that you take care barrassment for the celibate person to insist of her." on his nature as a sexual being, as though "What do you know about loving a his vows had made him doubt his right to be woman?" he said. "You're a priest." called erotic. But if, by his celibacy, the I was too angry to answer him. There is a priest hopes to give witness to some truths pride in a man that forbids him to explain that make men free, he must point out that anything so private to anybody. Whether I celibacy is not a denial of his sexuality, but sexual scene at all; but all of us think about even terrified to ask a doctor to give me the was in love-whether I could be in love-was only its control and discipline. Celibacy had it, and some worry. I remember one survey pill." The boy, not wanting to be bothered none of his business. His judgment as a 
its antecedents in an age when human once made among freshmen: how many of by other kinds of contraception, had told her Catholic was that to be celibate was to be decency was outraged by the sexual ex­you, the question asked, have had sexual to see a doctor and make arrangements loveless. Whether a priest, or anyone else, cesses of pagan Rome-note, for example, intercourse? About ten percent admitted to against pregnancies. "He thinks I've seen being in love, could, out of deference to the veneration of the virgin-martyr saints in having enjoyed this kind of union. The next the doctor," she said, "but I haven't. H previously made commitments, his and the Roman liturgical calendar, as though question was: what percentage of your something happens, my boyfriend will kill hers, refrain from the affections belonging they were rosebuds growing in an un­freshmen classmates do you think have had me." So the girl lived in fear: the fear of to man and wife, he never thought to ask. pleasant sewer. (There were· also, of sexual intercourse? About ninety percent, losing her boy friend ifshe didn't sleep with One wonders when he might understand course, St. Simon Stylites, the neo­they all agreed. Ten percent of the class him ; the fear of getting pregnant if she did; that loving a woman means taking care of platonists, and the Desert Fathers, whose were sexually experienced; yet nearly all of the fear of taking strange, potent drugs with her in ways exactly like this? distaste for carnality sometimes verged on those freshmen were convinced that their unforeseen effects: ("For all I know, they But my special annoyance is that a lad the nutty-but all of them had better minds, I classmates were more wicked than may give me cancer, or hemorrhages, or could think that a priest and his celibacy are think, than your average Playmate of the themselves. some other terrible thing," she said.); the made of clay too gross to feel the fire as Month.) In a century whose permissiveness My advice: don't worry about it. I've fear of being killed if something happened. school boys feel the fire when they invite a matches the Roman decadence, perhaps known people on this campus who were What cheap, free advice does an ex­girl to furnish them with comfort. celibacy, practiced as an option of human famous as libertines-some with national perienced celibate give to a girl who weeps If they think this, what truth, for them, is sexuality, can affirm by its successes that reputations as libertines, even; and their for the lost innocence of childhood? Why celibacy a witness to? 
it is not innocence, but the loss of innocence that worries me. 
~he hidden part of victory 
by art moher 
When Notre Dame Football Coach Ara 
that we work, Besides both the players and Parseghian said, "It's the best group of its 
managers are trying to impress and gainkind in the country," he was speaking of the 
top positions." Notre Dame student managers. This type of 
The managers are in on some of the in­praise is part of the intangible awards but 
ternal humor that exists on the team. One the managers receive tangible rewards 
incident in particular stands out in Tom's also. 
mind because the embarrassment was on 
Freshmen managers receive the same him. "I was a sophomore at the time and in numerated sweaters that the freshmen 
charge of keeping the time for Coach athletes get. Sophomore managers get full 
Parseghian. Our practices are strictlyassistance for books and free tickets to all 
divided up into certain amounts of time for athletic events. Junior Managers receive 
each drill. The manager in charge of partial scholarships, monogram jackets, 
keeping the time is supposed to signal that and free books and tickets. The head 
the period is over by setting off an aerosol manager, always a senior, receives from 
horn. We were getting ready for the Orangesixty-five to one hundred percent tuition as 
Bowl and I had the horn in the bag with well as free books and game tickets. 
some other things. When I set the bag down Managers have more responsibilities than 
the horn went off. Everything stopped. All the average person realizes. During 
the players looked at Ara. He turned and practice they are responsible for readying 
looked at me. There was no place I could the equipment on the field and assisting the 
hide! So, anyway practice went on and coaches in the various drills. Managers also 
about fifteen minutes later, believe it or not, serve as liason men between the players and the exact same thing happened. Ara turned coaches. 
and looked at me with kind of a grimace on his face. Then he looked up in the air andFor game preparation the managers' shook his head. Itwas pretty embarrassing.
work is more extensive. For home games Some of the players gave me the businessthey are in charge of readying the equip­about it, but now it is funny when you look ment. A major part of this is painting back upon it." 
helmets; this keeps the managers in the There are other intangible benefits. Beinglocker room until as late as three a.m., 
a student manager offers the opportunitywhile their friends are enjoying the glamour Managers put in an enormous amount of are an unlimited number of freshmen and for nationwide travel. Managers have the
of a college football weekend. Managers are time which could be used for studying or sophomore managers and this is the reason chance to meet people that the averagealso in charge of arranging practice times other personal activities. Sophomore for the flexible number. At the end of the 
student has no chance to meet. Perhaps thefor the opposition and seeing that the managers work an average of forty hours sophomore year the eleven junior managers biggest thing that the managers get out of
visitors' passes and refreshments are taken per week, juniors work fifty hours weekly, elect those to succeed them. At the end of their jobs is the fact that they put a great
care of. and the head managers work for sixty to the Junior year the Senior managers elect deal of effort into a cause and when that sixty-five hours a week. This total is in­those managers to succeed them as Head cause is successful the victory is an even 
For the away games the managers' duties creased if the manager's team is on a road Managers. sweeter one. are more complex. The head managers trip because the whole time that a team is When talking to Associate Football Assistant Coach Tom Pagna summed up must make travel and hotel arrangements, away from campus can be considered as Manager Tom Hayes, a senior from what the managers mean to the Notre Dame distribute meal money, and arrange for the work time, so it is obvious that managers Merriville, Indiana, · concerning the athletic program when, after last seasons equipment to be at the right place as are not involved in managing_ for the relationship between the athletes and the stirring victory ov~r Southern California he 
scheduled. They must also arrange for the monetary benefits. managers, Hayes noted that, "The players was quoted as sayiilg, "The managers had players' professors to receive notification if The number of managers at Notre Dame for the most part respect the managers just as much to do with this victory as the players are forced to miss any classes. nuctuates from fifty to one hundred. There because they realize the long hard hours anyone else on this team." 


-I 

l 
! ~ 
• 
I 
•
•
•4 

~---~------~--------~~ 
Muskie criticizes Ford's program 
remarks were noncontroversial.
contributed by the National more real to millions of companies and unions out ofWASHINGTON <UPI) Broadcasting Co. to allow a The President advised Ameri­American families; that it will excessive price or wage in­Speaking on behalf of Demo• Democratic response to Ford's cans to waste less, balance put this country through the creases, a temporary cut incrats, Sen. Edmund S. Muskie speech last week in Kansas their budgets, shop wisely and wringer unnecessarily; and that payroll taxes, tax reform and
said Tuesday night President 
City on ways Americans can clean their plates. the final result will be a weaker -as last resorts -gasolineFord's economic program fight inflation. In his reply, Muskie said: nation and not much progress rationing and wage-price con­would invite recession, weaken 
"Admonitions to 'balance your on inflation."
Ford was given free TV time trols.
the nation and promote uneven on the three commercial family budget' when the family Muskie proposed, in place of But he said this was "not the
sacrifice but prove ineffective 
paycheck will not cover bare Ford's proposed 5 per cent time for the government tonetworks only after he formally
against inflation. asked for it. The networks necessities begs the question of income tax surcharge, heavier concoct its own rigid controls." what we must do."
initially declined to carry the taxes on large inheritances and Here he differed with Mansfield
"These are the depressing 
speech on grounds it was not "And to families which are a heavier minimum tax on the who, in a TV reply to Ford's realities against the President's newsworthy. really squeezed, it is cruel wealthy. address to a joint session of
economic message," Muskie 
advice." He called for "hard bar­Congress, had called for wage­said. "It strikes hardest against A spokesman for Senate "The President's speech does gaining" by Ford to talk orice-orofit-rent controls.
Democratic Leader Mike Mans­It exempts those who already field said the Columbia Broad­our economic situation," the .,..___T_H_E_N_O_T,.R_E_D_A_M_E--S-A-1-NT-M-~~:;-;;;;;;~...-----~· 
the average American family. not reflect the seriousness of 

have most. It does little for casting System and the Maine senator said. those who have least." American Broadcasting Co. 
"My concern is that it aims 
refused to carry Muskie's 

entirely at slowing inflation, 
IVJuskie criticized the Presi­reply. He said the two networks which is part of the problem, dent's policies in a half hour of contended the fairness doctrine but denies the threat of a deep free television and radio time did not apply because Ford's recession, which is more and 
Ford expresses concern about Democratic control of Congress 
Democrats could jeopardize "unfortunately this Congress,
OKLAI-!OMA CITY <UPI) ­
world peace. dominated by the opposition,
President Ford warned Tues­He said he was "concerned doesn't seem to understand" 
day against election of Demo­about a breach between the the need for policymaking
cratic extremists to Congress Hepublican President and the unity.and said a legislative branch Democratic Congress" in the In a speech at a downtown overwhelmingly controlled by foreign policy area because rally, Ford said: 
'Tm concerned that we may
New members appointed 
get a Congress that is veto­proof, a Congress that has the wrong philosophy both domesti­
to A&L advisory council 
cally and internationally -a possibility for the next two Newly appointed members of the undergraduate degree in years when our country faces advisory council for the College of philosophy at the College of St. challenges in the Middle East, Arts and Letters at the University Thomas and his master's and the challenges of the Mediter­of Notre Dame will join present doctoral degrees at the University ranean, the challenges in the members for a series of of Chicago. Caribbean and Latin America, discussions on the campus this the challenges in the Pacific as weekend. Job openings at we try to broaden detente, as 
presents j 
NEW YORK THEATRE SEMINAR Ill 
Jan. 2 to 10, 1975 
Cost: Approx. $200.00, plus meals and transportation (Includes show tickets, tours, seminars, hotel) For information call Speech and Drama Office-284-4141 
·---------------·---····-···--·······-----···-····----------·····~ 
W~t atnlonial Jancakr ~nuBt 


"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
:~::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
:;:; 35 Varieties of Pancakes :;:; i:khicken -Steak -Sandwiches :~:~: !i!~ Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :~~~: :*:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::i: 
Your Host

U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50 
Named by Rev. Theodore M. we try to continue normaliza­Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Senior Club tion of relations with the !······~~~·~;r~······iNotre Dame, as council members · nnyone interested in obtaining a People's Republic of China, as 
are Russell G. Ashbaugh, Jr., job at teh Senior Club is asked to we in the White House and president and chief executive attend a meeting in the basement those people in the Congress 
i ADULT THEATRES • 
officer of Elkhart Brass of the LaFortune Student Center who understand bipartisanship 
Manufacturing Co., Inc., Elkhart, Wednesday night at 7:00p.m. The and who believe partisanship­: X 2 F1LIV5Ind.; Donald R. Keough, president management at present requires should end at the water's edge. 
•

of Coca Cola USA, Atlanta, Ga.; that applicants be seniors who "If we get the wrong kind of An!hony J.F. O'Reilly, president have either worked at the club Congress, peace could be in : X BOOKSI'CH: 
anrl chief operating officerof H.J. previously or possess some bar­jepardy." • Hl"'lZ Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.; tending experience. He said he was "pleading for •
• X

and Richard Tucker, Metropolitan For further information, contact the election of a Congress that • Opera singer. Tucker was a 1965 Jim at 6154. would be farsighted, visionary, •-rf<'lpient of an honorary doctorate imaginative and cooperative so : in fine arts at Notre Dame, and that we can have peace abroad • and so that we can work on our
Ashbaugh is a 1948 graduate. Candidates speak • • 
problems at home." 
:.~.~-~!~:.1.~S!t~fQ.f!.l~f.2KMAJJQtl~
A feature of the weekend ac­
~======~==~~~-----­
tivities will be the presentation of Three local Democratic can­the Hev. Charles E. Sheedy Award didates for the Indiana Generalto Dr. Michael J. Loux, associate Assembly will speak tonight in the professor of philosophy at Notre LaFortune Ballroom from 7 to 9.
Dame. The award recognizes 
Two candidates for State

excellence in teaching and in­Representative, Dick Bodine andcludes a cash gift of $1,000 from an Elizabeth Bauer, will join stateanonymous donor. It is named for Senate candiate Bob Kovach forFr. Sheedy, a Holy Cross priest the Student Government sponsored who served for severa· lyears as event. Republican candidates fordean of the College of Arts and the offices appeared yesterday.­
Letters. 
All students planning to vote in Loux joined the Notre Dame the November 5 election are en­faculty in 1968 after receiving an couraged to attend the meeting. 

COLUIVBIA LNIVERSITY 
Graduate School of Business 
Mrs. Joyce Cornell will be on campus November 6th to speak with 
students from all disciplines who are interested in a graduate 
i I 
management education. There are nine concentrations offered in the 
Business School, plus joint degree programs with the schools of Law, 
Journalism, Public Health, Architecture, International Affairs and 
: 
Teachers College. For further details, please contact your placement 
office. 


Wednesday, October 23, 1974 the observer 15 
----~-------------------------------­

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 

INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF NOVEMBER 5 
Sign-ups available week of October 21. Please note your 
records to the effect that these interviews will take 
place the week AFTER Mid-Semester break. 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Registration and sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Bldg. Interview times must be signed for in person. The sign-up period for interviews at the Placement Bureau will be from 6:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday. Lav School sign-ups are at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Boards, O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
NOV.5 Amoco Chemicals/Amoco Oil. (Standard of Indiana) 
TUES. MD in CH.E and Chem. 
Department of the Navy. Capital Area Personnel. 
BM in AE, CE, ME, EE, Met. 
Mellon S.nk. 
Bin Econ., Fin, Acct, Math. 
U.S. Steel Corporation. B in ChE, EE, ME, Met. Univ~s~ty of Rochester. Grad. Sch~Jl of Management. 
B in all disciplines. Procter &G,mble Company. Management Systems. BM in Math, Comp.Sci; ChE, EE, ME with exposure" to or with interest in Con,puter applications. MilA with 
Tech. background. Procter & Gamble Company. Sale Management. BM in AL or BA. 
NOV.5/6 Procter & Gamble Company. Pl'ant Management. TU/WED. BM in ChE, ME, HE, CE. MBA with ~ech. undergradu~te deg. 
NOV. 6. Columbia University. Grad. School of Bus. ~ Bachelor's Degree or higher. 
E. I. Du Pont De Nemours & Co. B in Acct. MBA with Acct. bkgrd. or con. Manufacturers National sank. All BBA, MBA with Fin backgrd. or con. 
J. C. PEn ney Company. B in AL and BA. Westinghouse Electric Corp. 
NOV.6/7 WED/THURS. 
NOV. 7 
~ 
NOV.7/8 THURS/FRI. 
NOV.B 
~ 
BM in EE, ME, MEIO, MEND, ChE. 
Exxon Corporation and U.S.A. Affiliates. BMD in ChE. BM inMet. and ME(straight ME only.) American Graduate School of International Management. 
All disciplines. Central Telephone & Utilities Corp. All BBA. B in EE, MAth, Statistics. 
Naval Ordnance Laboratory. BMD in EE and AE. ~M in ME. 
New York University, Grad. School of A & S. B in all disciplines. Whirlpool CorporatLon. BM in ME, EE, ChE, Met. B in AL and BA for B in Acct., Mgt, Mkt. 
Coopers & lybrand. 
Personnel. 

B in Acct. MBA with Acct. background or Cone. Trane Company. B in ChE, CE, EE, AE. BM in ME. MBA with B :n Eg. 
Armco Steel Corporation. 
BM in ChE, ME, MEIO, EE, CE, BMD in Met and Chern, 
B in Acct. MBA with Acct. bckgrd. or cone. 
Detroit Bank and Trust Co. 
All BBA. Eastman Kodak Company. 
BM in ChE, EE, ME, Engr.Sci., Chern, Phys. B in Acct, Fin. 
Marquette University. Grad, School of Bus. BM in all disciplines. 
Penn Central Transporation Co. 
B in Ebon, Math, CE, EE, MEIO, ME. All BBA. 
Shell Companies. 
B in Acct, Fin, Mgt, Comp.Sci. 
Employer Info~tion, Alternatives. Teaching. Summer. Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. Room 213, Administration Bldg. 
Notre Dame vs. Navy 
Pre-Game Party and Rally Friday Evening November 1, 197 4 8:30p.m. 
Post-Game Cocktail Party Immediately following the game 
Beniamin Franklin Hotel 8th and Chestnut Streets (near Independence Square) 
Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia 
Thieu's peace offer rejected 
SAIGON (UPI) -Another chance for peace in Vietnam has been stuffed into that infamous long tunnel, blocking once again the light at the end. 
Government sources have confirmed that President Nguy­en Van Thieu's offer of negotiations with North Viet­nam and the Viet Cong, made last month, has been given a 
cold  shoulder  by  the  Com­ 
munists.  
Instead  of  negotiating,  the  

Communist side has hardened its position, allied itself with anti-government demonstrato­rs and demanded the overthrow of Thieu as a precondition to peace talks. 
Thieu last month sent two top aides to Indonesia to take up officials in Jakarta on their offer to act as intermediary with the Communists for peace talks. 
"Hanoi and the Viet Cong apparently thought this was a sign of weakness on Thieu's part and made it clear they weren't about to talk to him,' said one diplomatic source. 
Although there is in Saigon a growing popular recognition of Thieu's political troubles, there have been few overt signs his almost 10-year reign as chief executive of South Vietnam is about to end. 
"Be careful of emphasizing Thieu's weaknesses just yet," cautioned one American di­plomat. "The man is owed a lot of favors by a lot of powerful people." 
The Viet Cong, with its usual all-out support from North Vietnam, two weeks ago issued its own new peace manifesto, demanding the overthrow of Thieu, the end of all U.S. military aid and a new, left-Qf­center Saigon administration. 
The manifesto promised im­mediate peace negotiations with such a new regime. 
A senior official of the Viet Cong's Provisional Revolution­ary Government told UPI the overthrow of Thieu would almost automatically mean the end of large-scale U.S. involve­ment in South Vietnam. 
"The overthrow of Thieu would be the final defeat of the 
U.S. policy in Vietnam," he said, adding it would mark the defeat of the so-called Nixon doctrine of strong support for stable Asian governments. 
In fact, the "new" Viet Cong policy statement represents a two-year backslide. It was during 1972 negotiations in Paris with Henry A. Kissinger that the Communists agreed to drop their demand for Thieu's ouster before any peace agree­ment could be signed. 
For his part, Thieu has taken some action and promised more to shore up his support. 

Suicide prevention centers prove to be unsuccessful 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) ­Suicide prevention centers don't prevent suicides among adoles­cents or adults, a Los Angeles psychiatrist said Tuesday. 
"For most adolescent suici­des, it's the culmination of a long process and they want to die -they don't call on the centers," said Dr. Joseph D. Teicher. 
Teicher, director of the children's and adolescents' psy­chiatric services for Los Angeles County, said someone else -a parent, a doctor or often a school ·nurse -must intervene by "working through their problems." 
Teicher, who addressed a seminar on behavior disorders at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Pedia­trics, held a :news conference on suicide among the young. 


Beforep choose acareer,
considerWhat's not in it foryou. 
The ladder of success doesn't necessarily lead where you really want to go. 
Instead of climbing over the heads of competitors at the office, maybe you'd be happier sharing in the joys of humble families or cheering lonely old folks or bringing consola­tion beyond words to the afflicted in their moment of grief. 
A growing number of young people today are more attracted by a lifework than a lifestyle. 
Find out about the good things that are happening around the country. let us mail you our free newsletter for young people interested in social action and religion. 
Just send your name and address to Word One, Room 134, 221 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60606. 
In our kind of work, you start at the top. 
The Claretians 
With a single exception, he has ordered police to treat the growing number of demonstra­tors against his government with benign neglect. 
The president has promised a three-month campaign against corruption, although no tangible results of that campaign have been seen yet. 
Thieu has also stepped up tax collections against rich mer­chants, ordered his armed forces to waste fewer war supplies and made trips into the countryside to visit his hard-core supporters -middle­ranking army officers. 
"The man is down a bit, but he is far from out," said an American diplomat. 
The sufferer, as usual in South Vietnamese politics, is the elusive lady of future peace. 
-

Teicher said studies had showed suicide centers were not effective for adults or the young, though they could ''perform other useful services'' such as crisis prevention or coordinating mental health ser­vices. 
"For adolescents who at­tempt suicide," he said, "it's the culmination of a long process. One third want to die. One third maybe want to die and one third are calling for help. 
Indian Made 

Silver 
and 
Turquoise 
cross 
You couldn't Cross like this near $26 in a has at least Y:r oz. of pure Sterling Silver, and at least 30 carats Inlaid · Kingman Blue Turquoise. And the Cross Is designed and ·~~ v.:. hand -finished by America's first and finest silversmiths, the Indians of the Southwest. 
Important Notice! For every order postmarked before November 30, Pueblo Crafts will donate St to the New Mexico chapter of the Save The Children Federation. One dollar of your pur­chase price will go directly to the aid of underprivileged Indian children. 
Better Than Money Back Guarantee Each Cross comes gift boxed and enclosed in a handmade leather pouch. If for any reason you are not satisfied with your Pueblo Crafts Cross. return it within 7 days and your purchase price will be refunded. The leather pouch. worth over a dollar. is yours to keep as a gift from Pueblo Crafts. (Please allow 4 weeks for delivery.) To order. send your check or money order for $26.00 (plus $1.50 pstg, hdlg, & ins.) for each 
Cross desired to: 
.u.
-
-e~.-. ­-
~
•n• 

PUEBLO CRAFTS 
~G1 Eubank NE Albuquerque, NM 87123 


----------------~ ~ -· 
16 the observer Wednesday, October 23, 1974 
ln

Bomb attacks continue • 
Tuesday exploded in his hands The bomb-laden transistor trying unsuccessfully to estab­By FRANK JOHNSTON as he was on his way to swap it was left behind on the counter lish the owner, gave it to BELFAST <UPI> -A bomb for a couple of bottles of wine. of Eastwood's betting shop in Dominic Donnelly, a Catholic in 
cOP"~aled in a transistor radio The blast blew him to pieces the Catholic Falls Road area by his mid-40s who was well left in a Belfast bookmaking and tore an arm off a teen-age an unidentified man, police known as an alcoholic vagrantshop and given to a vagrant passerbv. said. A clerk in the shop, after 
hanging about for hand~uts in the nei~hborhood.

Coerced into guilty plea 
"Dominic said he could trade the radio for a couple of bottles 
of wine," a friend said. Donnelly had barely emerged

Ray tries for new trial 
BY JIM BALLENTINE 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. <UPI) Attorneys for James Earl Ray contended in Federal Court Tuesday that Ray's previous Iawver, Percy Foreman, told Hay he would "barbeque" in the t•lectric chair unless he pll'aded guilty to the slaying Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
Hay is trying to win a new trial on grounds he was prPssurt'd into saying he killed tlw famed civil rights leader, an act he now denies. 
HPrnard I<'ensterwald hit hard at ForPman, the noted Houston, 
-
T<·x .., attorney, in his opening statt>ment, but then moved on to thl' question of whether the conditions of Ray's confinement in the Shelby County Jail prior to trial rendered him incapable of making a logical decision. 
ChicagoSymphony String Quartet appears tonight 
Members of the Chicago Sym­phony String Quartet will join William Cerny, professor of music and chairman of the Notre Dame Music Department, for a concert at 8: 15 p.m. tonight in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Tickets are $1 and may be pur­chased at the door. 
All principal players with the Chicago Symphony, the string quartet is making an un­precedented seventh appearance at Notre Dame. Their program here will include the "Robert Schumann Piano Quintet," the quartet of Richard Strauss, and the "T String Quartet" of Theodore Sznto, a Hungarian composer whose musical life was spent mostly in Vienna, Paris and Budapest. 
Two of the quartet played for Toscanini in the NBC Symphony before joining the Chicago Sym­phony and all are artists-in­residence at DePaul Univesity where three, Victor Aitay, violin ;MiltonPreves, viola, and I<'rank Miller, cello, are teachers. The fourth, Edg.ar Menzer, a violinist, teaches at Northwestern University. 
The quartet was formed in the early 1960's and appears regularly in the Chicago Winter Library Series, the Chicago Symphony's Chamber Music series, and in other concerts the city and 
suburbs . They recently com­pleted the recording of five string quartets of Leon Stein, prominent Chicago composer and teacher. 
from the betting shop into the Ray is asking U.S. District Ray had every intention of street, clutching the radio,Judge Robert M. McRae Jr. to going to trial and asserting his when it exploded in his hands. 
set aside his guilty plea 

innocence in the April 4, 1968,
negotiated by Foreman on slaying. 
In addition to the 18-year~ldMarch 10, 1969, and order a "Attorney Foreman coerced youth who lost an arm, policenew trial. 

Ray into a guilty plea," said several other persons were
Ray entered the federal 

Fensterwald said. "Foreman hospitalized for cuts and shock. 
courtroom on the lith floor of put every pressure on Ray. He Police said they believed thethe Federal Office building in said Ray would barbecue (be 
man who left the radio,downtown Memphis at 9:30 electrocuted> if he went to trial. described as young and well­
a.m. for the start of the He used bribery as well as dressed, had intended it tohearing. The 46-year~ld prison­coercion to see that Ray did not explode in the betting s~op; 

er wore an ill-fitting charcoal backslide on his agreement to which was frequented mamly gray suit and a white shirt plead guilty." by Catholics.buttoned at the neck with no 
Earlier, masked gunmen
tie. 

Fens-terwald offered no evi­burst into Belfast's Catholic St. 
Once in the hearing room, 

dence the first day to back up Peter's secondarv school andRay interlaced his fingers and 
his charges against Percy.
sat motionless as Fensterwald 

~---~--------­
Belfast 
kidnaped 28-year-old teacher Daniel Burke. But he turned up unharmed a few hours at the school and told police he had been questioned by his captors in a house somewhere in Belfast but then let go. Police said he refused to say what he was questioned about. 
Police sources theorized the kidnaping was in connection with charges Burke faces of allegedly helping a wanted teen-age member of the out­lawed Irish Republican Army to escape to the Irish Republic. Burke is currently free on bail while awaiting trial. The 
sources  suggested  the  IRA  
kidnaped  Burke  to  find  out  
what  he  told  police  while  in  
custody.  

Security authorities estab­lished new police patrols in Belfast Tuesday in an attempt to stem a new wave of assassinations by Catholic and Protestant extremists who have killed 19 persons in the past month. 
Instead, he moved into the 
made his opening statement. 

events surrounding Ray's stayFensterwald said Ray never in the Shelby County Jail from 
AFTER THE GANE VISIT
intended to plead guilty to the 

the time of Ray's arrest in 
murder of King, winner of the London on June 8, 1968, to his 

INDIANA'S LARGEST RESTAURANT
Nobel Peace Prize. He said Puiltv plea nine months later. 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT TUES,VVED,FRI,SAT SUN
TI-E WOODEN KEG 
1609 South Main 289-4824 
M.B.A. Recruitment-Syracuse University The School of Management of Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York, will be interviewing interested 
applicants for the Masters in Business Administration Programs on November 12, 9:00AM-4:30PM 
For further information inquire at the Placement or Career Counseling Office on campus. 

Wednesday, October 23, 1974 the observer 17 
For governor's seat 
Ella Grasso favorite to win in Connecticut 


HARTFORD, Conn. (UPI) ­Unless she stumbles unexpect­edly before Nov. 5, Ella Tambussi Grasso, 55, apparent­ly will be elected Connecticut's first woman governor. 
Mrs. Grasso projects as a "regular fella," preferring slacks and canvas shoes as campaigning garb when the occasion permits. But she has a sharp political mind and has run a careful and calculated campaign, and is the clear favorite in most polls to return the statehouse to the Demo­crats. 
Robert H. Steele, 35, a two­term Republican congressman who has the unenviable task of opposing Mrs. Grasso in a year when even the GOP concedes it is in trouble, has conducted a forceful campaign after a stunning first ballot convention victory over party regulars. 
But Steele was hurt, perhaps 
badly, when President Ford 
pardoned former President 
Richard M. Nixon on Sept. 9. 
Mrs. Grasso put Steele on the 
defensive when she demanded 
abolition of the Public Utilities 
Commission for allegedly per­
mitting electric companies to 
Knew of break-in 
Dean cross-exa~nined at trial 
WASHINGTON !UPI) -John 
W. Dean III, the Watergate prosecution's star witness, ad­mitted Tuesday that he knew about the 1971 Ellsberg break-in eight months after it happened and that he destroyed one of the burglars' notebooks after the original Watergate trial in January, 1973. 
"You were covering up the California burglary?" asked John J. Wilson, attorney for 
H.R. Haldeman, former White House chief of staff and now a defendant in the Watergate cover-up trial. 
"Yes, sir, I was," Dean acknowledged. "And you did this conscious­ly?" Wilson asked. 
"I did." 
"Why?" 
"That was the easiest solu­tion for me at the moment. I just put it in a shredder and hoped the problem would go away," Dean said. 
The cross-examination of Dean began after President Richard M. Nixon's former counsel had been under direct questioning for five days as the prosecution's first and star witness. 
Just before chief trial prosecutor James F. Neal finished his direct questioning, he played the sixth presidential tape to be introduced into evidence. In the tape, made of a conversation April 16, 1973, Nixon told Dean that Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman, his top two aides, were "in on the obstruction." 
Members of the White House "plumbers" special investiga­
tive unit committed both the 1971 break-in at the office of Pentagon Papers defendant Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist in Beverly Hills, Calif., and the 1972 break-in at the Democratic
National Committee in the 1---....;;;;;;,.. 
Watergate complex. 
Ehrlichman was found guilty of conspiring to violate the psychiatrist's civil liberties. Nixon said. in written inter­rogatories at the trial in July that he learned of the break-in March 17, 1973. 
A notebook belonging to E. Howard Hunt Jr., a master-overcharge consumers by $19 million. 
This has emerged as a key issue in a campaign that has lacked any real fire. Both candidates have opposed an income tax and are backing a constitutional amendment to permanently ban such a tax. Projections indicate, however, that even without new spen­ding, the state's budget will fall short by about $100 million next year. 
Not only has she not been hurt by her sex, Mrs. Grasso apparently will be helped by it. She has stressed pocketbook issues that housewives under­stand, and Connecticut voters are comfortable with the grandmotherly candidate who served as secretary of state for 12 years before her two terms in Congress. 
Feminists took exception to a Steele advertisement that said Mrs. Grasso "screamed" at the PUC. 
"Screaming" is sexist, they 
said. 
Grasso was quick to point out in her battle with the PUC that it was the commission itself she 
mind of both break-ins, was removed from his White House safe after the first break-in. As Wilson bore in, Dean testified he found the notebook in January, 1973, the same month that Hunt and others were convicted in the original Water­gate trial. 
In his final testimony under direct examination, Dean said he had been disbarred from the practice of law, had received no promises from the govern­ment in exchange for his testimony, and was now serving a prison sentence. 
Under cross-examination, Wilson questioned Dean at length about his bargaining with the original Watergate prosecutors for immunity from prosecution. 
Dean acknowledged that be­tween April 8 and the end of May, 1973, when he was informed he would not receive immunity he had talked with the prosecutors five times. 
"Were you fooled by them?" Wilson asked. 
"The arrangement I worked 
out in off-the ·record discussions 
between the prosecutor and 
myself was that what I told 
him would not be used against 
me and later they would decide 
what to do with me," Dean 
said. 
"In these off-the-record dis­
cussions, did you admit guilt?" 
Wilson asked. 
"Principally, obstruction of 
justice," Dean said, adding that 

.--------------------------, 
Fri Mon · Thur 7:15 9:15 sat & Sun 1:15 3:15 5:15 7:15 9:~
1 

Fri, Mon -Thur -7:30, 9:30 sat & sun-1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
thetaU blond man 
withoneblackshoe lffi 

was arguing against and not the investor-owned utilities, which employ thousands. 
Various factors point to a Dmocratic victory. The Demo­cratic party has healed the divisions that helped Republi­cans dislodge them in 1970 after 16 years in power. 
Mrs. Grasso, when most Connecticut residents were grousing about the price of food and the cost of energy, seized on the utility issue and spoke directly to consumers about it. 
She also dramatized her complaints about the economy and food prices by filling a shopping bag with groceries in Naugatuck and comparing the "superprices" she h·ad paid with the originals covered by the mark-up stickers. She found a dramatic 13 per cent difference. 
The Democrats could get the edge on the present 3-3 split in the state's congressional dis­tricts, and -depending on the margin of victory -eould seize control over both houses of the legislature. 
In addition to Mrs. Grasso, a proved vote-getter, the Demo-
he also acknowledged that he had urged deputy campaign director Jeb Stuart Magruder to commit perjury. 
Dean also testified that the principal document he relied upon in preparing testimony of more than 200 pages for the Senate Watergate committee was a file of newspaper clippings about Watergate pre­pared by the Committee to Re­Elect the President. 
Tel. directories to be distributed 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
The well-worn and coffee-stained 
temporary student listings are 
soon to be replaced by permanent 
directories. The Registrar's office 
fully expects the new listings to 
arrive by November 1st and be 
available for distribution after the break. 
Errors that were reported in the temporary directory have ben corrected in the permanent one, and',the phone numbers of off­campus studdnts added. 
The distribution of the direc­
tories is being handled through the 
Student Union by a committee 
headed by Rick Golden. 
Golden could not be reached for 
details on the method of 
distribution. The Student Union 
was clcsed and his home phone 
number isn't listed in the tem­
porary directory. 
crats sport one of the mcst popular candidates in the history of the state. 
Sen. Abraham A. Ribicoff, a former congressman, governor and secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, is a political institu~ion in the Nutmeg State. 
He appears a shoo-in over newcomer James Brannen, 33, a black airlines pilot who while in the state legislature intro­duced a controversial bill calling for the legalization of marijuana for personal use. 
It appears that two strong candidates, Mrs. Grasso and Ribicoff, at the top of the ticket -combined with the minus factors of Watergate, Nixon's pardon, inflation, and the difficulty of getting Nelson Rockefeller's vice-presidential nomination approved -bode ill for the GOP in Connecticut. 
Sen. Lowell P. Weicker, R­Conn., warned in Hartford against "voter apathy" in the coming elections. A poor turnout combined with to-heavy Democratic registration 
advantages could result in a 

THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE 
announces AUDITIONS for 
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST 
Nov. 5 and 6 at 7:00P.M. 
O'laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
No Tryout Preparation Necessary 
OPEN TO All ND-SMC STUDENTS 
-

THE ROMA PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your .Host Frank Anastasio A PIZZA YOU CAN NtOT REFUSE' LIVE BANDS ON WEEKENDS 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
Acareer in law­WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 700 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 60 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
landslide. 
And some voters who are not at all satisfied with Thomas J. Meskill as Connecticut's first Republican governor in more than two decades, might not be willing to take a chance with Steele. 
Campaigning in Connecticut always means touring the state's fairs, and Steele, a former Central Intelligence Agency operative assigned to Washington and Mexico city as a Russia expert, could be seen examining the Holsteins and Herefords. 
Grasso, too, exchanged com­ments with exhibitors and was right at home talking about recipes and. tomato sizes, occasionally taking a respite from the campaign rigors at her $100,000 shorefront home. 
A scholarship student at Mount Holyoke College who was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, Grasso's seemingly down-home ways hide her political savvy. 
That was apparent as far back as the seventh grade, when she voted for herself as ,..J:~ss oresident and won. 
-
Five ti:rnes against ND. 
and here tore:rnernber 
What's it like to play against Notre Dame five times? Fur­thermore, what's it like to play against the Four Horseman three of those times? 
Ed Garbisch is probably the only guy who knows. 
Edgar W. Garbisch was an outstanding football player for the Cadets of West Point from 1921 to 1924 and was a first-team Walter Camp All-America in 1922 and 1924. He was a superb drop-kicker and place-kicker and was the captain and center for the 1924 Army squad, the year Elmer Layden, Jim Crowley, Harry Stuhldreder and Don Miller were penned into football immortality by the legendary Grantland Rice. 
The Irish won that game 13-7 at the Polo Grounds in New York, and 
afterwards,  ND  coach  Knute  
Rockne  sent  this  letter  to  Gar­ 
bisch:  

My dear Garbisch: 
Your very kind letter received and I certainly feel very good to get such a nice letter. I just want to say in reply that the team we met from West Point this year was the best West Point team we have met since 1916 and we are feeling very, very good about having been lucky enough to win from such a great team. 
I just want to compliment you on your ability to lead, because, as a captain, I feel you have shown marked ability. Your West Point team this year had a hundred percent better morale and we are all pulling for you to give Yale and the Navy a good licking. If you have the same morale that you did against us, you should do it nicely. I sincerely hope that when West Point beats us that you will be on the coaching staff. You deserve to be. 
With every good wish for a successful season, and with kin­dest regards to yourself and Coach McEwan, I am 
Yours cordially, 
signed, Knute Rockne 
Garbish played 300 minutes against Notre Dame. "And the only one in history to have sur­vived such an experience," cracked Rice. 
The first game took place in 1917 when Garbisch was a freshman tackle at Washington and Jef­ferson College. The Irish won 3-0. He played for West Point four times against Notre Dame. In 1921 his Army squad lost 28-0, in 1922 the two teams battled to a scoreless tie, in 1923 the Cadets lost 13-0, and of course, the 13-7 game in 1924. 
Of that season Garbisch writes, 
''In 1924 I was captain of Army and 
played center; Winslow Lovejoy 
was captain and center of Yale 
that year and Adam Walsh was 
captain and center of Notre Dame. 
I played against all of them and 
Walter Camp inadvertently chose 
me First All-America center; 
Lovejoy 2nd All-America and 
Adam Walsh 3rd All-America 
center." 
It may not have been so inad­
vertent. During the '24 season 
Garbisch single-handedly beat 
archrival Navy, drop-kicked four 
field goals (from the 32, 46, 20 and 
30 yard Jines) to beat the Middies 
12-0. 
Edgar W. Garbisch was honored 
by the University of Notre Dame 
during halftime ceremonies last 
Saturday at the Army game. 
Standing on the field with Miller 
and Crowley, he must have had 
more than a few fond memories. 


Edgar W. Garbisch at ceremonies in NO Stadium last Saturday. 
Irish slated to face Hurricanes, Middies 
(continued from page 20) The Middies have a good group 
. . . of running backs including the this w~ll g1ve our squad the ~p-~cademy's all-time leading rusher portumty to show people the kmd Cleveland Cooper (1 944 yards in of ~ootball they are capable of two seasons) and Ed G'ilmore Bob 
playmg" ' 
· . . Jackson, a converted fullback runs 
The Ir1sh w1ll have a further the option offense while Ike Owens chance the follo"':'ing we~kend in c.nd Junior Tupola give the back­the heart of P~tlad.elphla when field some depth. they meet the M1dsh1pmen of the Defensively six starters have 
U.S.. Naval Academy in Veteran's returned from last year' squad but Stadmm. In this traditional rival~y that is just where the Midship~en Notre ~arne ~olds 37-9-1 edge m hurt the most. They have allowed the sen_es havm~ won ~e last ten 159 points in six games while the g~mes m a row mcludmg the 44-7 offensive unit has managed only VIctory of a year ago. 68. The Midshipmen could be 
The Naval Academy, under h f f th b th r th
second year coach George W I h ur mg ur er Y e lme ey 
. . e s • meet the Irish on Nov. 2 since they 1s currently 2-4, havmg lost to Air must play Pittsburgh this F~rc~ last weekend. Of course the weekend. 
~· 
M1dd1es also pulled off the shocker Nonetheless the Irish can't af­
of the season so far when they ford complacency, after a}} Navy 
dumped Penn Penn State 7-6. has a better record than Purdue. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
One Miami tix, $8.50. Call Dan after 5:00. 683-5362. 
Dodge Dart, 1966. Excellent condition. Must sell by Fri. Automatic. superb mileage. $600. O.W.O. Dinah, 233-3495. 
sony TC . 377 tape deck, $225. Call Greg, 3370. 
2 GA Miami tix. Call 7883. 
WANTED 
Badly NEED ride to D.C. today, tomorrow, Fri. -1166. 
Need riders to New Orleans or area. Call Tim, 8936. 
WESTAT, INC. Interviewers wanted to conduct persona I interviews with households and landlords in housing research survey throughout St. Joseph County. Must be able to work evenings and weekends and a minimum of 25 hours a week. Automobile necessary. Interviewing ex­perience or other public contact experience helpful, training provided. References required. Survey will last 4 months. Contact: 
WESTAT, Inc. 
1843 Commerce Drive 
south Bend, IN 46628 
233-4105, 233-4106 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Needed: part time help. Hours can be worked out. Must ski and preferably have some knDwledge of ski equipment. Stop by on Wednesday or Friday from 12:00­
9:00 at Think Snow Ski Shop, in the mini-mall at Town & Country. 
Need 4 GA Miami tickets. Call Tom, 288-7637. 
Need two Elton John tickets, desperately. Call 1882. 
Need 6 GA Pitt tix. Will pay$. Call Joe, 3301. 
Need 2 GA Miami tix. Call Larry, 3308. 
Needed: 2 student tix tor Pitt. Call Jerry, 1636. 
Needed desperately, ride to Minneapolis on Sun, Oct. 27. Will share expenses. Call Jerry, 1636. 
Will the female 1st year grad student who promised me 2 GA tix tor Miami call me. I've lost your phone no. Please! Chuck, 1592. 
Need ride to Fort Wayne after Sat. game. Call Jim, 8625 or 8627. 
Ride  needed  tor  break  to  Car­ 
bondale  or  Springfield,  Ill.  Call  
Michelle, 1266 or 1267.  

Need ride to Louisville, Ky. after game. Call 4342 or 4885. 
Need ride to NYC.NJ area, Oct. 25. Call Ed, 3822 or 1620. 
Riders wanted to Iowa. 10-27. Call Kathy. 232-6841. 
Help! I need 2 decent tickets to Elton John concert. No scalpers need call. Please call 6818. 
Irish Lampoon needs articles, cartoons, stories. $. Call 272-8724 between 9 & 11:30 pm. 
Need 1 Pitt GA ticket. Call Nick, 1553. 
Need 1 ticket tor Pitt game. Call 1132. 
Wanted: 2 GA fix tor Miami. Please call 4508. 
Badly need a ride to St. Louis tor October break. Call Hogie at 1612. 
Need one Pitt ticket desperately. Call Lisa at 3351. 
Need 2 or 4 GA tix tor Pitt. Call Frank at 287-7026. 
Need 2 GA fix tor Pitt game. Will pay top dollar. Call Steve, 3121. 
Needed: camping equipment tor October break -tents, mess kits, etc., and fishing poles. Will rent or buy. Call Observer, 8661. 
Desperately need ride to Cleveland around break time. Will share expenses. Call Tom, 8634. 
I desperately need a ride to St. Louis tor October break. One-way only. Please call Maggie, 232-4069. 
Need ride to New Orleans or vicinity tor Oct. break. Will share$ and driving. Call Marie, 8085. 
Need ride back to NO after Oct. break. From North Dakota or 
N.W. Minn. Call Tom, 3306. 
Need 2 GA tix tor Pitt. Call 1620. 
Wanted desperately: 4 tix to Elton John. Call Chris, 1723. 
Need 2 Elton John tix. Call Ed, 8252. 
Need 2 tickets for Elton John. Call 283-1971. 
Rides available to Harrisburg, Pa., for break. Call Kevin, at 8867. 
Ride wanted to Chicago area this Thurs. 8075. 
Need ride to Pitt to leave Sun. Call Joe, 3663. 
Need 6 tix for Miami. Pay well. Call 272-9622. 
Need ride to Chicago area Sat. Call Mary, 4543. 
Need ride to New York City or Long Island for break-call 8621. 1 am desperate! 
Need GA tix Miami. Call 288-7946. 
Need ride to Detroit Fri afternoon. Willing to pay. Call Joe, 1132. 
Need two Elton John Tix. Will pay good $$. Call Howard at 1166 
Need 2 Elton John tix. Call Tom, 1072. 
Need 2 Elton John tix desperately. Call Jim, 289-9148. 
NOTICES 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAIIID: GOOD BOOGIE & DANCE MUSIC FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY OR DANCE. ALSO AVAILABLE BEFORE FOOTBALL GAMES. CALL 272·9895 FOR IN­FORMATION. 
24 hr. TV repair service. 7 days a week, Sundays and holidays. Color TVs $60 and up. Stereo units $50 and up. Call Western Electronics ­282-1955. 
But You've Got to Have Friends Gay Students of Notre Dame P.O. Box 1702 South Bend, Ind. 46601 
Legal problem, but no money? NO Legal Aid can help. Call 283-7795, M-F, 1-4 pm. 
Portrait sketches make neat Christmas gifts. Satisfaction is guaranteed. Call Rosy Elias, 5274, charge $3. 
Car problems? Come to Hottman Bros. Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to ND-SMC student, faculty, and staff do·it-yourselters. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0181. 
All BA students and faculty are invited to a pre-game picnic -this Sat, Oct. 26th, in front of Hayes­Healy. Box lunch and band. Students, $1.00. 
'67 Dodge 112-ton Stepvan. 37,000. Fine running condition. New brakes and electrical system. $1,000. 232-8500. 
Castenada's, Tales of Power, Secret Lite of Plants, Rolling Stone Magazine, Dali, Dali, Dali, All the President's Men, Tolkein's World, Tassajara Cooking, Rock & Roll Woman, and more on special sale tor one week at Pandora's Books. 
M.C. I'm screaming it! ! ! I love you! ! ! ! ! ! 
M.M. 
Halt-price sale on all used books 
plus  reductions  on  new  books  
during  Pandora's  Books  SALE  
WEEK.  

Fred Graver will ascend into heaven in November. Admission tree. Be there. 
ND-SMC Council for Retarded Halloween Dance, tonight, 7:30· 10:00, STEPAN CENTER. More info, Kevin, 289-3408. Free. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: brown leather key case containing 5 keys. Please call Steve, 233-3690. 
Lost: at Army game in section 3 or row 60 or on campus: gold bracelet with gray stones. Reward. 288-7733 or secretary at architecture bldg. 
$20 reward gold wedding ring inscribed "TJH" "8-11-72." Leave ring and name with Law School secretary, first floor. 
Found: set of keys, no. 438, Fri. in So. Dining Hall. 234-5492. 
Found: white shawl in front of AD building. Call Michelle, 1266 or 1267. 
FOR RENT 
503 West Jefferson: duplex, 3-room furnished apartments. First and second floors. Gas heat furnished. 289-6307. 
PERSONALS 
S.U.N.D.E.F. IX: Keeping South Bend warm tor you. Say hello to the Loire tor us. 
P., B., & D. 
Thank you tor the beaut1tul yellow roses! K.G. 
Greg: Happy 21st Birthday. 
The girls ot 414 (They called him Superman in high school) 
To the Morrissey Marauders: Fight on· DUMP DILLON! Two Loyal LeMans Fans 
Denny: Sweet mumblings in your sleep. Steve 
Dennis of 209: Whose area is this? You know, who has domain over it? 
The Listener 
B. BVdee has turned apostate. Julian comes to welcome her. Oh, that I had been writ down an ass. 
Sorrell: Do you really sing in your sleep? How bizarre. 
DRC 
Call 4444 and wish my love, Patti Frings, a happy B-day. 
Happy Birthday Patti I The girls in the Mental Ward 
John and J.D. Happy Birrhday to the oddest couple on 4th Flanner. 
Attention Puckers (especially Boobless Polack): Mary turns 20 today. Call before she's over the hiII. 
Miss Irish Colleen: I'll wait forever. Chip 
Julie! Where is Dooley? Julie? Where is Dooley! ! Roland, 287·0876. 
Butch Job: IWYB ALOT ALOT (from your ankles up) 
Miss Demand 
Baby Face: What happened to the fuzzy? When can I expect your next 3 a.m. call? I just don't know? 
Maria 
Gerbil face: Have you been cheating on your innocence? 
Wad Squad 5th and Bourbon 

Wednesday, October 23, 1974 the observer 19 
Irish icers open againstWisconsin 


by Bob Kissel Two injuries have slightly Wisconsin could not altered Smith's offensive lines. conie up the big goalscorer. Sometimes it's hard to decide Brian Walsh, still ailing from a Through pre-season injury, whether Dane County Coliseum, severe charley horse, and Jim graduation, and early pro signings, 
home of the Wisconsin Badger Augustine are doubtful starters for the Bid Red have lost eight key hockey teeam, is the permanent the Wisconsin series. Offensively players including captain-t!lectfor the Irish Smith has the lines of 
home for 8,431 crazy maniacs or Dean Talafous, Gary Winchester,
Jeff Collier, Alex Pirus, and Mark

the temporary home for 8,431 and Dave Pay. people crazy about collegiate Olive, Clark Hamilton, Kevin "We have a young team which is hockey-Badger style. Nugent, and Pat Novitski, Pat going to make mistakes at first," 
Coach 'Lefty' Smith takes his Conroy, Tim Byers, and Don explained Wisconsin coach Bob young squad this weekend up to Jackson, Bill Guisti, Allen Johnson. "Though we lost many Madison to open regular season Karsnia, and Dave Howe. players, our style of play will be 
WCHA competition. The last At the blueline Coach Smith will basically the same, emphasizing time ND visited Dane County the again go with the defensive pairs good skating and playing the game 
who thwarted many Minnesota

Irish came away with a split to as it was designed years ago."
rushes to insure a win. Skating for 

scrape their way into the league "This is the first time in four playoffs last spring. the Irish are Paul Clarke and Jack years that I really don't know for Brownschidle, Roger Bourque and 
This fall Notre Dame's team is sure that we will be an upper totally different that last year's Les Larson, Dan Byers and Lew division team," added Johnson. 
Curry.

team which finished eighth in "Because so many things can WCHA. Gone are the superstars, Based on the excellent net­happen with young players in key the seniors, and the bad feelings minding performances turned in positions, my personal goal is to which plagued the squad. by John Peterson, Len Moher, and have a winning record at the end of 
Lefty Smith has youth, some Dave Cave Caron against the the season." experience, and a lot of desire. Golden Gophers of Minnesota, Penalties are inevitable in any 
This combination of ingredients Lefty Smith feels another in­hockey game. One area of Lefty was displayed last Friday night in trasquad scrimmage is necessary Smity's game that needs no in­their 2-1 overtime victory against to decide who travels for troduction is the penalty-killing ­
the Minnesota. Wisconsin series unit led by 'Moose' Novitski and "Going on the road and playing What about the Bid Red of Allen Karsnia. Minnesota was 
any WCHA team, all tough on any Wisconsin'? The Badgers lost eight able to muster only seven shots on 
This weekend NO winger Clark Hamilton will renew acquaintances with 
given night, is a whole new !?all overtime games last year, dropped goal during their eight minutes of 
Wisconsin goalie Dick Perkins.

game," reamarked Coach Smith. to fifth in the WCHA, and never got man advantage hockey, attesting "We really will find out whether a chance to defend their NCAA to the excellence of the ND short­but for the first four points in who was interested in a little the Minnesota game was a fluke or title. As the "year of the tie handed unit. league standing. Getting up for the Badger hunting over the weekend. 
we really have something." turned loss" in dicates, Notre Dame's power play units, back-to-hack series will be another The Irish icers all agreed with one led by Clark Hamilton and the part of the test for this green crew. Lefty--Badger-hunting season other by Pat Conroy, have been At practice yesterday, Coach opens Friday night in Dane County 
Smith asked everyone on the ice Coliseum.
working hard to improve upon last
Ruggers defeat JC 
week's somewhat inept per­formance. The power play is by Bob Kissel probably the most intricate play in helped considerably." 
ND fifth and seventh
hockey and takes more than one It could have been ND vs. Army "Our kicking game improved the game to get signals straight. 
in football Friday night under the most," noted rugby vet Wilkes, Next Friday and Saturday nights lights at Cartier. But instead it "with guys like Jim Kovacs and In the latest AP and UPI polls released Tuesday, the Irish of Notre
the Fighting Irish hockey team 
was the Irish rugby team playing a Richie Arensberg typifying our Dame were ranked seventh and tied with Southern Cal for fifth respec­
leaves the friendly confines of the 
greatly mismatched John Carroll domination of the game. John ACC for the rowdy, boisterous tively. team. Carroll is always psyched out of crowd of Madison's home ice. The The Buckeyes of Ohio State strengthened their hold on first place in 
The Irish 'A' ruggers trounced their minds, but they·seem not to two games are not for exhibition, both polls as a result of their 49-9 rout of Indiana. Michigan, which the John Carroll Bluestreaks 21-3. have thier usual abundance of squeezed past Wisconsin 24-20 remained second in the UPI poll. In the AP The game was even for about the talent." Sailorettes win standings, Oklahoma, Michigan, Auburn, Southern Cal and the Irish held 
first ten minutes of the ninety The Irish 'B' squad added insult In a "no contest" event, Notre on to their positions of a week ago, while the UPI poll, which doesn't rank minute game, with Notre Dame to injury by turning back the Dame women sailed to victory in teams under suspension, listed Michigan second, Alabama third, andinitially being held back by the Bluestreaks' 'B' side 21-7. Scoring 
Ohio Wesleyan's all-female Auburn fourth.
Bluestreaks' kicking game. for the Irish were Lou Drago, Tony regatta. The girl's were the first The Irish, coming off Saturday's bombardment of Army 48-o facesThe flow of the game quickly Mendiola, Mark Povey, and Mark team to win the newly instated Miami this weekend. The Hurricanes, ranked 13th in the UPI poll, andchanged when George Spiegel Keown, who converted suc­
scored the first Irish four-pointer, cessfully on three conversion kicks ~cDonald Cup trophy. They also ignored in the AP, come into Saturday's game off a 21-20 victory over 
brought home five other awards. 
with Mitch Wilkes converting on and one three point penalty kick .. West Virginia.
After a series of twelve races,
the kick, good for two points. The "Basically out backs brought the Irish "scrummies" took the lead to game right at John Carroll .and the Notre Dame had 15 points; the next 
UPt Pol
heart and forced John Carroll into serum did a good job of containing closest schools, Purdue and Ohio AP PoU 
'/'llc United(ri:s ln,ternatta!'lai'
defensive play, allowing the Irish their backs," remarked so ph State, tied with 42 each. Camille TIK-Associated T19•ji',~WIIlY ofJ;o~ch I 1\!ajor rolt>ge
Pl"l'SS 

backs to pick their holes. rugger Lou Drago. "The 'B' Doan, skippering in A division, had coUege football teams, with TlrSf·place i all fatillgs ·u woR.Jost re'¥lrds four firsts and two second place \'Otes in parentlK-ses, season record and and first place \'Oies in part>nthest:i:
Other scoring for the Irish in half players have really improved l
total points. Points tabulated on basis of

through the games so far this fall. Crewing her {.~ ' : f. .. ......
included Jim 'Doctor J' Kovacs, finishes.. for was ,9_hio ,state ~~ -jl) . ~ 850
~l&-l..!HHtf+7+,H,l-2.·l; . I".l9fi 

Richie Arensberg, and two con­We are now playing the game of Mary Capelli, a newcomer to the 1. Ohw !;tiife (50) . . . . . a:o.o MIChigan (lie}. . .. .I296 .2. OilillbfwnaL(ll)l..;.u .. :"··'~ : . , .
team. Working together, skipper h®! 3. Alabama (!Hll. . J2ll6
version kicks by fullback Wilkes. rugby not an organized game of 3. Michigan'(!).. 6-0·0 923 
e.Auburn (6-=,t'~ll, . ... ..,. ,236
John Carroll converted a suc­fumbles." Elizabeth Flood, and her ex­4. Alabama (I) . ·.. :~~ou· ·~ iili(Tit>) SOuth .· (Hl. f'.lfi4 cessfully on a penalty kick to make The Irish rugby team is going to perienced crew, Carole Froling, 5. Auburn (I).. . .6-0·0 699 • t!J(TI41j NQI (i>-1) l ·u~ 
G. S. Califjlqia , .. , . . . ....+1·0' 628 7: Texas A&M '<r;.Jy .•.: . . 141
the tally 18-3 at the half. Richie sit back and reevaluate their past finished with five firsts and one 7. Not['(' Dame . ..i>-1·0 o29 8..PennSt~te(liol).:1 ... ·H9 Arensberg, smallest of the Irish performances this fall. The "only" second in B division. The team 8. Texas A & M ...i>-1·0 507 '-·t<ellraska (~) 11 a ."1 76 
9. Nebraska . .+2·0 3oo AI. Tex'!ls (4-2) to[·~~.'.: . 1. 32
backs, drop-kicked a three-pointer game left is against the Chicago showed their versatility by sailing 10. Pe¥1liJlfW<, .lO.~: . n~ :)4 11. Flo11da.,(5·1r.. 'f' . • ~ 
boot for the only score in the Lions, who the Irish defeated one in predominately heavy winds, II. Texlls 1'ilch .. . . +1·1 188 12. Mar:vlaiitl <1-i) .... ! 1111 
12. FlorlcJ\l':·:J .. :~:~. :. :: ~:.iH"' 18+ I& Miafni, Fl&. '(+e. ·~ 9
second half. year ago to claim the Midwest with light air prevailing late 
13. Texas... +2·0 i82 Arizona (i>-~ ' f H
"We went ahead early in the crown. The Lions are presently Saturday and early Sunday. I~. Al:i29na li\a.le .. .4-1·0 125 1 · ~Texas J'et'h t+l\1 i .·i 7 game," explained Irish Midwest champs, having defeated This achievement brings into 15. Maryland .+2·0 94 ~. Mtamt OhU1{5-~),.) / 6 Despite 16. ArizOna ..............•,:· .i>-1•0 88 If, Anzona~ 5!placekicker Mitch Wilkes," which Notre Dame last spring. focus one of the least known club 17. N. Caro. State . . ..6-l-0 o5 JJ (TIE') TlllaSe(( 0)f) lfih.. . ~ is a total change from all our their loss to Palmer, a victory over sports for females. And it may go 18. Tulane.... .: ...1>-0.0 ~ (Tie) Okia ml State (3·!) 3 previous games. The good crowd the Lions could change the success to show that Irish just doesn't 19. Miami. 0.. . i>-0-1 .35 (Tle) M1 SIIJli St."(i>-1) . 3 ~,.. !!':'!"!HH_!JS, Jan Dteg.9 SVi e (1;1~ ~ • . .3turning out for the last home game of the season for the Irish. mean male. Others receiving vptt>s. listed alpha· By agreement Wlti'I'J the Aml!rican IX'tically: Baylor, Illinois, Kansas, Mia· Football Coaches. tealfls on prlfllution mi (Fla.). Mississippi State. North Car· ~Y the N~AA are )neligibl~ .for top :!II olina, ·Okl~ho!Jla. State. Pi;, l!'\rdlle,' -end ·national' ;champi()nship San Dirgo ~tale. Temple, · .:'LA. Wis· consiJler~pon by· the t:PI J3otrd of
The Irish Eye ---Football Picks 
.COD.:iin. .l'oachl'sJ Th.!Ae -ean\s curn·ntlv on .. obatian an•: Oklahoma. s·Ml'. 
(continued from page 20) ii~rllii· M!~ B~a,ch ~l'l.l.i a~d
They'll be "up" for the Spartans however. Wisconsin ~
uthv.·pstl!rrff;n;;a..""a.·
Florida at Auburn: This game should tell if either by 10. team is for real. Auburn by 6. Oklahoma at Iowa State: The Sooners should be 7­Nebraska at Colorado: ·Don't let the name Cor­0 after this one . Oklahoma by 23. nhuskers fool you . Nebraska can play football too. Kansas at Oklahoma State: OSU isn't as good as its 
Fencers to begin workouts 
The Buffaloes will find out. Nebraska by 14. intrastate "friends." Kansas by 10. Illinois at Ohio State: Archie Griffin is tremendous. SMU at Texas: Texas should be well on its way to a The varsity fencing team has Terry McConville at 3406 or Mike And he's fast too. Illinois is decent, but the Buckeyes Nov. 23 showdown with Texas A & M . Southern issued an invitation to all Notre Sazdanoff at 3402. make mince meat out of decent teams. OSU by 21. Methodist shouldn't get in the way. Texas by 21. Dame and St. Mary's men and Michigan at Indiana: Should be a forfeit. Michigan Maryland at Penn State: What began as an easy women who are interested in 'Kbmens interhall by 73. schedule for the Nittany Lions quickly became a little learning how to fence to attend Notre Dame at Navy: Navy's never a problem. more than they bargained for. They should beat the their daily practice sessions. finals tonightIrish by 24. Terrapins, but it'll be a cliffhanger. PSU by 3. Beginners' practice takes place 
The lovelies of Lyons meet the
McNeese at Troy State: This game should have Alabama at Mississippi State: No problem for the Monday through Friday at 7:30 women of Walsh in tonight's
been nationally televised, it's undoubtedly a big game Crimson Tide. Alabama by 22. p.m. in the fencing gym located in Women's lnterhall Footballand a tossup, ·but most fans will be looking for Troy Upset of the week: California over Southern Cal: the North Dome of the ACC (above Championship Game on the soccer
State, by 6. The Golden Bears may convince people they they are the ice rink). Anyone interested in fields south of Cartier Field.
Kentucky at Tulane: The Green Wave aren't bad real with this one. The Trojans might think dif­either joining the team or just and Kentucky is. Tulane by 14. ferently, but it may not help. watching practice is welcome to The ct•t~t~;>st begins at 5 p.m. and Michigan State at Wisconsin: The Badgers come Last week's results: 13 of 15, 87 per cent. Season: 64 attend. all football fans are invited to off a "tou~h" time at Indiana trving to stay awake. of 90, 71 per cent. For further information, call attend. 

tu 

Miami, Middies next on ND slate 
solid football team speed,by Greg Corgan quickness and mobility. There'sSports Editor no doubt we'll have to play our 

College football polls frequently 

finest football game to date." 
cause more problems than they The Irish offense may be finally solve. ready. Against Army they rolled 
This week, at least indirectly, up 603 total offensive yards and a 
they may cause the Irish some big record-breaking 36 first downs. ones. 
"We executed a lot better Saturday When Notre Dame meets Miami than we had during the previousof Florida Saturday afternoon, it games," said Ara. "With the will facing a 4-1 team which has exception of Wayne Bullock's been denied recognition all year, at fumble in the end zone, we didn't least by the Associated Press. 

make any crucial errors drivingIn the AP poll this week, the wn territory, that's inside theHurricanes remained in that limbo 0 yard line." 

ca tegory--"others receiving 
The Irish field an offensive unti votes." The UPI coaches poll which is among the top five in the reflects a different, and perhaps nation in total offense with a 456.2 

more knowledgeable attitude, they yard-per-game average as well as have the Hurricanes rated thir­in the top fifteen in rushing offense teenth. ABC-TV has chosen to (302.2 yards) and scoring (29.5
televise the ND-Miami game points per game).
rather than the NO-Pittsburgh Quarterback Tom Clements,contest with the idea that the 
who is at the Irish helm, ranks in Hurricanes may prove to be Notre the top 10 in total offense <1!\1.2
Dame's fiercest challenge until average) and top 20 in passingSouthern California. 
01.3 completion per game). His

"We're no flash in tl)e pan like Agood performance by Wayne Bullock is essential fora tough contest with Miami Saturday. 
favorite target is still Pete last year," said Miami._s premiere came at the hands of Auburn's 200) on the receiving end of Ara. "We'll definitely have our Demmerle, who is nursing a badlynose-guard Rubin Carter. "We're fourth-ranked Tigers, 3~. quarterback Kary Baker's passes. hands full trying to stop their at-bruised thigh and may miss the going to show what we can do this "This is perhaps the finest Baker also has the services of an tack." Miami contest. Demmerle, year." Miami team we have played since excellent corps of ballcarriers. Joining Thompson and Williams although he sat out almost all of l''or Notre Dame this may , ed "Baker has found himself," says in the Hurricane backfield are the Army game, remains in the top 
become their big problem. The I've been at Notre Dame, not f lb I
Head Coach Ara Parseghian. Parseghian, "and he's leading ul ack A an Reynaud and 15 in the nation in receiving with 
Hurricanes are out to show both th 11 N tt h f · gb k T"m M 4.7 catches per game.
"Pete Elliott has done a great job em we . o rna er w at or-wm ac I organ.
pollsters that they deserve top ten with this ball club. The offensive mation they come out in, you just Defensively is where Miami Joining Clements in the back­
ranking, and the 80 per cent of the h t k s th m st s · th t
line averages right around 250 ave o eep your yees on po es e o enous rea . field will again be Wayne Bullock, 
nation that will see the ND-Miami Th "II" f "Th h ld h"gh d
pounds and although they're ompson, or W1 1ams or any o ey e a I -powere AI Samuel and Art Best. Samuel 
clash, that they are indeed for real. running the same attack as a year their other running backs." Houston attack to no touchdowns," has the best game of his career last 
Miami has some legitimate ago they are doing it with a bit Thompson is I-back Woody explains Parseghian, "and the weekend with 124 yards in 12 
gripes. Included in their 4-1 record more execution." Thompson, the Hurricanes leading only points Auburn could get was carries. Eric Penick may see 
in a 28-0 win over highly-touted That same attack is the Slot I ball-carrier. Williams in John on a field goal." limited action. 
Houston, a 28-26 victory over 5-2 and the Double Slot I formations in Williams who alternates with The Hurricanes are led by "There's an outside chance that Tampa and wins over the which the Hurricanes utilize split Thompson at the I-back slot. Carter, who, at 6-3, 260 is a leading Eric may see some playing time," University of Pacific and West end Steve Marcantonio (6-4, 204) "They have tremendous speed in all-America candidate. "Carter is said Parseghian. "He's been Virginia. The Hurricanes only loss and tight end Witt Beckman (6-3, Williams and Thompson," says perhaps the most impressive practicing all week, working hard 
Greg Cor~ ~==:=:=:=:=:::::::;:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:~:~::~s:g~~=~::::::;:;:---:::::l:.t§:::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:>:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:= ~:~~~~i~~s~~~~ I~i::vs~o~~e~o~~ to get in shape. We won't know if 
Eric will be able to play until right Murphy. before game time when the doctors "He flows all over the field and is will be able to pass judgement."in on almost every play," adds While Miami may be cherishingParseghian. "He plays much like the idea of beating Notre Dame on Cornelius Walker of Rice, and in close-to-national TV, the Irish are 
The Irish Eye 
fact, Miami's defensive philosophy also eager for the chance to show ===========================:=::====================================================================================================================:=:============================================== Footlx:rll picb is much the same as that of Rice, the nation just how they can play
Week number e1ght of the 1974 college football should be right. ND by 7. and we had trouble moving the ball football. "I'm tickled to death season arrives with the October 26 slate of games, NAVY at Pittsburgh: Navy has dropped four gaainst them. we'll be on television," says Ara. and with the fall break the Irish Eye will eJ_Ctend its straight after their 7-6 shocker over Penn State. Pitt "Miami is by far the most "People have said we din't beat weekly prognostications even further to mclude · can be had however. The Panthers beat Boston physical team we'll have met this Rice by enough and that we were week number nine, November 2. College last week, but North Carolina stomped on year. Their defensive line running up the score on Army, but 
With a full slate of thirty games, this them three weeks ago. Unfortunately for the Middies averages 240 poiunds. They have 
(continued on page 18)

"doubleheader" could either make or break the Tony Dorsett alone could beat them. Pitt by 20. all the elements of an all-around 
perc~ntage. ~robably break. North Carolina Satate at Maryland: The Terrapin Th1s week p1cs: defense has not allowed a point in its last three ball _Tct:· at Alabama <in Birmingham): The Tide games.TheWolfpackwasstunnedbyNorthCarolina fmally rolled over a half-decent team (Tennessee) last Saturday, but sometimes intra-state rivalries 
JV's bow to Michiganlast week. Texas Christian's Horned Frogs have lost can result in some atypical outcomes. Still Maryland five of six games and should have no trouble making may have that nebulous advantag~ termed Bettis's only pass of the secona
by Rich Odioso

it six of seven. 'Barna by 21. momentum. Maryland by 7. half-to split end Dave Harding­
!JCL_A at Californ~a: Both these. tea'!ls are a sur-Oklahoma State at Nebraska -The Cowboys are resulted in the Wolverine's go­pnse m the West th1s season. Cahforma, one of last mediocre (3-2) while sometimes the Cornhuskers "We just couldn't stop their ahead touchdown. Steve year's worst ten teams, has lost only one game so far are not much better. This week they will be. option." was Coach Denny Mur­Knickerbocker converted the PAT, 
this season. UCLA~ on the other han~, was expect~d Nebraska by 21. phy's explanation for Michigan's and Michigan went ahead, 7-6. to do ~ome_great thmgs. They haven t.. The game IS Penn State at West Virginia: The Mountaineers are 14-6 victory over the Irish's JV's The Irish threatened to regain at Callforma, but look for the UCLA Brums by 7. coming off a tough 21-20 loss to Miami of Florida Friday afternoon in Ann Arbor the lead early in the fourth quarter 
Colorado at Missouri: ~ese two teams are both while the Nittany Lions ate Syracuse's Orang em en Stadium. Freshmen Mike Smith on a 39-yard aerial from freshman remarkable. They get obliterated one week and then alive. Joe Paterno is still embarrassed that his team and Joe Holland accounted for a quarterback Gary Forystek to pull of a major upset the next (i.e. Colorado over lost to Navy and he will be out to impress again this total of 227 yards rushing from the fullback John Rufo. But the Irish Wisconsi~ an_d Mis~o~i over Nebraska). The weekend. Penn Stateby 21. tailback position for the Wolverine couldn't advance, and a field goalproblem 1~ umque th1s hme. Both teams w~re mor,e Texas at Rice: The Longhorns are off and running, ''0". attempt by senior Pat McLaughlin or less obliterated last week_and they certa.mly c~n t witness the Arkansas game last week and despite The Irish scored first on a 65-was deflected because of a poorupset each other. The game IS a toss~up. M1ssoun by what anybody says about Rice being a "good""bad" yard scoring drive on 13 plays snap. 
1. team it should be Owl under glass on Saturday, Texas early in the second quarter. Using Michigan then seized the op­
Delaware at Temple: This should be a spectacular style. Texas by 24. what Murphy termed "a con­portunity wto win by running down game to watch. Both these eastern squads are Minnesota at Michigan: The Wolverines survived a servative game plan" in an effort the clock with an 80-yard, 16 playundefeated and the Delaware Blue Hens are not used scare at Madison last weekend and no doubt Bo will to establish fundamental sound­drive. Joe Holland gained 45 yards to losing. Spor~s Illustrated. has the Temple O~ls have them ready to go. The Golden Gophers of ness, the Irish called on sophomore in the drive, and fullback Kevin ranked as the th1rd best team m the East, and desp1te Minnesota suffered the ultimate humiliation two fullback Frank Bonder on ten of King iced the victory with a four a rel~tively easy sched~e up t? this point, Temple weeks ago losing to Indiana so they deserve to get the thirteen plays. Bonder gained yard plunge from the four to make 
may Just be that good. It ll be qmte a battle Saturday, smeared. Michigan by 28. 49 yards on the drive, icluding a the score 14-6, with the PAT good. 
but look for Temple by 7. Purdue at Michigan State: Purdue makes the Irish bruising 17-yard run to the Highlights for the Irish JV's, now 
Wisconsin at Indiana: It doesn't matter whether look bad everytime it plays. The only games they Wolverine six. Bonder scored two 0-2 on the season, were the rushes the Hoosiers play home or away, they'll still lose, by a won were against Notre Dame and lowly Nor­plays later from the four, and the of the Irish backs, Bonder and lot. The Badgers won't even need Bill Marek for this thwestern last Saturday so State should take care of junior Irish led 6-o. Mike Parseghian, who ac­one. Wisconsin by 21. them easily up in East Lansing. MSU by 14. The Junior Irish escaped with cumulated 108 and 19 yards
Kansas State at Oklahoma: The Sooners clobbered Florida State at Auburn: FSU goes after its the halftime lead when the respectively. Colorado at Boulder last saturday and they're not eighteenth straight loss and Shug Jordan's Tigers Wolverines bobbled a pitch inside The game represented an im­prejudice. They'll clobber K-8tate at Oklahoma this aren't about to stand in its way. They may even help-the Irish ten in, the last minute of provement for the JV's who had Saturday. Oklahoma by 35. a little. Auburn bv 20. the second quarter. The Irish held fallen earlier in the season to the 
Miami at Notre Dame: The Hurricanes return 16 of u._,set of the Week: Baylor over Texas A & M : The again when defensive tackle Nick Wolverines, 31-12, primarilytheir 22 starters from last year's squad and they have Agg1es nave visions of being in the Cotton Bowl on Federenko made three key tackles because they had lost the services some big boys. Miami's only loss this season was to New Year's day, but the baffling Baylor Bears may halting Michigan's initial drive of of such standouts such as Jeff fourth-ranked Auburn, 3~, and Pete Elliott is out to go a long way in making it wishful thinking. The the second half at the Irish 14. Weston, Harry Woebkenberg, and avenge ND's 44-o win in the Orange Bowl last game is at Baylor so look for the upset. The Irish couldn't hold off the Dan Kelleher, who have been December. The Irish will have more than enough to Week of November 2: Wolverine rushing game forever, elevated to the varsity. The junior handle, but the defense has looked good and the of-Texas A & M at Arkansas: The Aggies want and Smith's repeated sweeps Irish conclude their season this fense may have come together last week. ABC-TV revenge. A & M by 14. carried Michigan into scoring Sunday afternoon against Purdue thinks it will be quite a game and this time they (continued on page 19) position. Quarterback Roger at West Lafayette. 










