-----------~ 


On The Inside 
New SBP candidate 
... page 3 Off-Campus life 
... page 9 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 84 Thursday, February 21, 1974 
Implies conspiracy 
Rhodes refutes Warren Commission 
by Tom Krucyek Staff Reporter 
Before an overflow crowd at Washington Hall, Rusty Rhodes systematically picked apart and refuted the case for the one-man assassination plot of John F. Kennedy present in the Warren Commission report on his death. The com­mission's main piece of evidence was a photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald with the gun that was found on the sixth floor of the Texas Book Depository Building. Rhodes presented evidence that the photograph of Oswald was a composite with the actual bead of Oswald, but combined with the body of another person. 
Rhodes began the presentation with a short 

No unified thought 


LaFortune renovation discussed 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
The Officers of the University of Notre Dame met in the Center for Continuing Education Tuesday afternoon to discuss plans for the renovation of the LaFortune Student Center. 
According to Vice-President of Student Affairs Dr. Phillip Faccenda, the Officers are con­sidering four or five specific modifications of the plan submitted by the Student LaFortune Renovation Committee. 
"There is no unified thought on the matter yet." Dr. Faccenda stated. 
"The Ellerbe architects have been at work for two weeks in pricing out the plan and its various modifications," Dr. Faccenda explained. 
The final decision by the officers will be presented at a March 15 meeting of the University Board of Trustees, Dr. Faccenda announced. 
Director of Student Activities Dr.Fr. David Schlaver stated that he is very optimistic and advises students to be patient in awaiting the final decision. 

"The delay doesn't worry me," Fr. Schlaver said. "They've got a number of buildings to consider and the plan for each building depends on the total plan for all the buildings." 
Fr. Schlaver expressed his confidence that the major work on the LaFortune building will begin this summer. 
Dan Schipp, one of the students on the LaFortune Renovation Committee, said the ''project is still going on and will get a hearing before the University officers." Officers." 
"The Officers apparently aren't able to state exactly where they stand at this time because they haven't had a chance to look at the plans in detail, Schipp stated. 
"We [alked about this project for hours and hours last week. A lot of the fury came from our feelings that our plan was going to be thrown by the wayside," Schipp explained. 
"Most of these feelings came about from misperceptions and a lack of communication between students and the administration," Schipp noted. 
"We still want to see our plan adopted and don't feel we are in a bad postion yet," Schipp added. 

history of the John Kennedy years in office. He pointed out that in August of 1963, Kennedy issued an executive order that called for the removal of 1000 men per month from Vietnam until all service men had been removed from the war zone. In an afternoon session, Rhodes had stated that the day after the death of Kennedy, new-president Lyndon Johnson was meeting with generals to change the Kennedy war policy. 
Rhodes, an executive chairman of the Com­mittee 
Rhodes, an executive chairman of the Com~ mittee to Investigate political assassinations, presented slides of the motocade the day of the assassination in Dallas, November 22, 1963. Rhodes noted that the secret service determines the order in which the cars will procede along the parade route. 
Normally, Rhodes related, the president's car was to procede behind the press car in the number seven position of the parade. However, when the parade began the press, who usually take motion pictures of the president while the car is moving, was placed far to the rear of the parade. The effect of this was felt later when the president's car made the turn from Main Street to Houston to Elm Street where the President was shot. While making all of the necessary turns, the press car was a large distance behind the president, negating their camera angle vision. 
Concerning the assassination and the parade route, Rhodes pointed out the fact that normally the secret service car trails the president three to five feet. The secret service car adhered to this rule until the car got midway onto Elm Street. The secret service was further back and is not to be seen on the slides. 
It is Rhodes' conviction that, "the secret service did not take adequate precautions for the president in Dallas. The night before they were up until7:00 in the morning drinking, which is in direct conflict with secret service regulations." 
Rhodes also made the point that while the assassination was in progress (app. 2.8 seconds after the first shot was fired), Lyndon Johnson was on the floor-board of his car, and covered by his secret service agents, slides show, however, that Kennedy's aids failed to respond, even after the president was grasping at his throat. 
Slides were a large part of Rhodes' presen­tation, with one slide showing a view of the book building where Oswald was purported to have fired the fatal shots. The window was empty during the time when Oswald was to have been firing the shots. The Warren Commission was not showed the slide in its enth·ety, but instead was shown one half of this slide, the half showing the vacant window was discarded. 
According to the Warren Commission, the shots which killed Kennedy were to have come from behind the president. Police who were riding to the rear and left of the president, Rhodes observed, were splattered "with brain and skull tissue. They (police) immediately went up to a grassy knoll area to search for the killer." The knoll was located to the front and right of the president. The policemen felt that in order for the bullet to proceed at a diagonal across the president's skull, it would have had to be shot from in front and to the right of Kennedy. 
The Warren Commission ignored this with their story of what later was called the Magic Bullet Theory, or "super bullet." 
Rhodes said that for Kennedy and Governor of Texas John Connollyto be hit and have a total of seven holes, there would have to be more than one bullet or more than one assassin. Not so, says the Warren Commission. This Commission came to the conclusion illustrated by Rhodes through the use of diagrams, that the bullet when shot from the sixth floor angle, first entered the president in the back and proceeded out the front of the neck, striking the governor. 
However, Rhodes declared "autopsy reports show that the bullet entered the president's body 5-% inches below the collar line. The Warren Commission merely changed that medical fact to the bullet's entering at the throat." 
"When one examines the evidence, one sees that the bullet would have to enter in the back, and instead of going downward since the bullet was fired from six floors up, when it entered Kennedy's body, traveled up and out of the throat where it proceeded to, if one is to believe the one bullet idea, hang in the air for a second, hitting Connolly through the back of the rib cage, and exit out the front and into the governor's wrist and then into his left thigh," criticized Rhodes. 
Rhodes stated that in addition to all of the action in the president's car, a bystander was also shot. Oswald, it was later pointed out, would have had to load the gun within three­quarters of a second to have fired all the shots. No bullets were found, except later one bullet was found on the stretcher that carried Connolly. This bullet originally weighed 160 grams, and 
(continued on page 4) 
---.----~---~---~­
l. the observer Thursda'y", ·February 21, 19M. 

warld briefs 

Washington <UPI) -A federal judge Wednesday rejected with a single unexplained "qualification" Dwight L. Chapin's attempt to block Watergate witness John W. Dean IIIfrom testifying against him at his upcoming perjury trial. 
Chapin, President Nixon's former appointments secretary, con­tended that Dean, as former White House counsel, in effect had been his lawyer and could not be a prosecution witness. 
But U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell, who listened to secret testimony on the subject last week, issued a one-sentence order denying Chapin's motion to bar Dean from the witness stand. 
New York <UPI) -·A federal court judge Wednesday read a list of names including John W. Dean, John Ehrlichman and three of President Nixon's relatives to a prospective jury in the conspiracy and perjury trial of former cabinet members John N. Mitchell and Maurice Stans. ' 
U.S. District Judge Lee Gagliardi did not indicate whether former presidential advisor Ehrlichman or the Nixon relatives would be called to testify in the trial. Dean, the former White House counsel, is expected to be a key prosecution witness. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -In­flation, already galloping at a 22-year high, was even worse than initially estimated at the end of 1973, the Commerce Department reported Wednes­day. 
Revised figures on the state of the economy between Octo­ber and December showed prices rising at an 8.8 per cent annual rate, substantially high­er than the 7.9 per cent estimated last month in a preliminary report on the gross national product (GNP). 
The heavy inflation pace was the worst since the first three months of 1951, when the economy was fighting the Korean War inflationary boom. 
Economic output in the fourth quarter of 1973, however, was somewhat larger than first estimated, 1.6 per cent instead of 1.3 per cent. 
The two revised figures present a picture of an economy growing at a sluggish pace at year's end, with prices out of control despite a continuing government stabili­zation program based largely on volunatry compliance. 

Most government and private economists feel the situation has deteriorated since then. 
The fourth quarter growth rate was far lower than the administration would like. 
The two revisions meant that GNP -the total value of goods and services produced in the U. 
S. economy -rose in the fourth quarter at a 10.5 per cent 

First woman flier: Lt. Allen 
<UPI) Barbara Allen will be awarded her Tuesday and will officially become wings Friday as the first woman an aviator during ceremonies at flyer in the military, the Pentagon the Corpus Christi, Tex., Naval Air said Wednesday. Station. She is a 1970 graduate of 
Lt. Allen, 25, of Long Beach, Whittier College, the same Calif., completed her training California school from which 
Admiral to give talk on humanistic technology 
Admiral Hyman G. Rickover, deputy commander of the U.S. Navy's Nuclear Power Direc­torate, will discuss "A Humanistic Technology" in the second lecture of the Notre Dame College of Engineering's Centennial Lecture Series. The public talk will be held at 8:00 p.m. Friday in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 
Admiral Rickover, who has been called the "Father of the Nuclear Navy." began working on the project to develop an atomic powered submarine in 1946. He has continued to be associated with the development of nuclear naval vessels since that time and was 
instrumental in the construction of the first civilian nuclear reactors. A1922 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, Admiral Rickover has 
the Enrico Fermi A ward for contributions to atomic science and the Egleston Medal of the Columbia Engineering Alumni Association. He is the author of several books on education, in­cluding "Education and Freedom," "Swiss Schools and Ours," and American Education­A National Failure." 
The Engineering Centennial Lecture Series commemorates 100 years of engineering education at Notre Dame. 

VIENNA CHOIR BOYS 
A CONCERT OF SACRED MUSIC, FOLK SONGS AND COSTUME OPERETTAS 
ELKHART MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL TUESDAY EVENING FEBRUARY 26 AT 8 P.M. ADULTS $4.00 STUDENTS $2.50 
Tickets at Templins, The Suspended Chord, Truth Reader Service, at the door 

President Nixon graduated . Adm. Elmo R. Zumwalt Jr., the chief of Naval Operations, opened the Navy's flying program to women for the first time last year. Eight candidates, including Lt. Allen, were accepted into the program. 
Because women are still prohibted from entering combat, the trainees were limited to flying transport aircraft and fleet type helicopters. 
One of the eight trainees flunked out because she became air sick and a second resigned after marrying her recruiter. The remaining five are still in training. 
an campus taday 

3: 3() p.m. lecture "Incas, conquestadors and architects" by Keneth feathersfone rm. 202 architecture bldg. 4 p .. m. seminar "basic aspects of fast time resolved spectroseopy" 
by dr. peter k.ludwig conference rm. of radiation research bldg. 6:30p.m. track vs. western michigan ace 7 p .. m. leecture "goethe: poetry of experience" by josefa smith 
s1tapelton lounge 7 p.m. lecture "the ke.1nedy assassination" by rusty rhodes o'laughlin aud. 
7: 3() p.m. meeting introduction to charismatic renewal, butler bldg, b•ehind holy cross hall 8 & 10 p.m.-cinema 74, five films by renfor, lang, and lion stern. berg enq. aud. $1.00• 
-8: 115 p.m. -le~ture, "historical and cultural trends ·of the esfonian, latvian, and Iithuanian people" by mary kriauciunas, library 
i~Ud. 
8:15p.m. faculty recital susan stevens, soprano little theatre 
8: ~10 p.m. prayer meeting charismatic prayer meeting holy cross 
hall 
Revised inflation estimates show increase 
annual rate, or $33 billion. More than three-fourths of this increase was caused by infla­tion and only a small fraction represented an actual increase in production. 
Increases in net exports and the value of goods held in business inventories were the chief reasons for the upward revision . These were partially offset by a drop in consumer spending. 
Both government and private economists believe that the growth rate in the current January-March quarter will be worse --zero or perhaps even below. Official tigures will not be available until April. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
Thursday, February 21, 197 4 

'TON~ITE AT THE SENIOR BAR: 
GIRLS • ALL MIXED · DRINKS 1/2 PRICE • 
ALL NITE LONG! 

P.S. We'll be open immediately after Saturday's game 
received many awards, including ------------------------~---------------, 
Student Union Invites You To. 




ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
'12 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar 

* 
Baggage handling &transportation to &from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
HURRY! SOME SEATS STILL AVAILABLE! 
Questions • call Sween at 3669 

.Thur~~a~ •. Febr:uary 21, 1974 


... \ .... 
Winiarczyk, Famula enter race 
Featuring Dannon Yogurt
men.., hail 1tyling 

8 OZ. SIZE Plain 31 cents
men's hair Stylin 

~n8~i,. St,tin 
WHATEVER THE STYLE IT'S A 
I

• 


by Jim Burke female relationships, values, and 
Staff Reporter 
campus parties. because "they 

Andy Winiarczyk and John will not make us better Christians Famula, both of Flanner Hall, or students," but "unprepared for announced their candidacies for the challenges of the future." Student Body President and Vice Winiarczyk and Famula feel that President, respectively, last night the University is not providing the 
in the Flanner Pit. "necessary environment for the 
Winiarczyk and Famula have growth of the individual." had no experience in student Winiarczyk sees the major role government. Winiarczyk is an of the SBP and SBVP as ad­English major and President of the ministrative. Winiarczyk feels 
Notre Dame Celtic Club, a group that he and Famula could provide fostering Irish traditions and the imagination, courage, and history. Famula is in Electrical perseverance for an efficient Engineering. bureaucracy. 
Before a small group, Winiarc­Winiarczyk promised a specific 
zyk read the Winiarczyk-Famula platform by this weekend. "philosophy." The philosophy Winiarczyk-Famula headquarters opposes the new S.L.C. regulations are in 206 Flanner. Campaign which call for restrictions on male-Manager is Barney Panfil. 
SLA program begins~ Hearst still :missing 
SAN FRANCISCO <UPI) -handling the details of the 
FBI special agent Charles Hearst project, said she expect­
Bates said Wednesday he felt ed to have enough food by 
Patricia Hearst was safe and Friday "to fill 20,000 requests." 
would be freed unharmed. She said it would start arriving 
Organizers of the $2 million Thursday. 
food giveaway demanded by She said groceries were being 
her kidnapers said they would ordered, warehouse and distri­
be ready to feed 20,000 needy bution sites selected, · and 
people by Friday. volunteers signed up. Mrs. 
Bates said he thought the Maze said four pickup points in 
"People In Need" free food the San Francisco Bay Area 
program financed largely by would open Friday and the 
publisher Randolph A. Hearst program hoped to expand into 
had met the demands and the Los Angeles region "within 
deadline of the Symbionese two weeks." 
Liberation Army and the "next 
logical step" would be Pa­
tricia's release. Hesburgh names 
He also said the agency had 
no choice but to go after her 
kidnapers once the girl is '76 Bicentennial 
returned to her family. 
The 20th birthday of the 
granddaughter of William Ran­Committee 
dolph Hearst came with no hint 
from the terrorist kidnapers of A steering committee has been 
their next move. appointed by Rev. Theodore 
Secretary of State A. Ludlow Hesburgh, C.S.C., and Dr. Edward 
Kramer of Washington State, in Henry to plan the celebration of 
charge of the program, said it America's Bicentennial in 1976 at 
was off to a fast start with the University of Notre Dame and 
more than $100,000 in food St. Mary's College. 
donated in addition to the $2 The committee, to be chaired by 
million put up by the Hearst Dr. Thomas Bergin, dean of 
family. continuing education at Notre 
Kramer was named by Dame, will be the core of a larger 
Hearst to establish a program committee of faculty and ad­
to feed 100,000 needy persons ministrators to be chosen later. 
for a year, with a radical Other members of the steering 
''coalition" selected by the SLA committee are Dr. Jack Detzler, 
overseeing the project. administrative assistant to the 
Kramer said 32 trucks and president at St. Mary's; Dr. 
more than 70,000 square feet of Ronald Weber, chairman of the 
warehouse space had been Department of American Studies 
volunteered to handle the food. at Notre Dame, and Richard 
Peggy Maze, director of a Conklin, director of information 
food giveaway program in services at Notre Dame. 
Washington State who is 
2§§·8600 ~~:..•e1,[)r
~ . . --._ .•
.." 


~· •\\s\S . 1
s\1 
HAIR CARE FOR MEN 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544 

MEXICO CITY <UPl) the people of the Americas I discussed at the conference but 
Mobbed by a friendly airport bring the friendship and the · will not be a pet issue." crowd shouting "Henry! dedication of the United Sta­Shortly after his arrival,Henry!", U.S. Secretary of tes." Kissinger began a series of 
State Henry Kissinger arrived separate talks with foreignWednesday for a crucial Kissinger was accompanied ministers of five key South 
meeting of 24 foreign ministers by a delegation from the U.S. American nations -Brazil,from the Western Hemisphere. Congress headed by House Colombia, Argentina, Peru and 
He pledged a "new start and Speaker Carl Albert and Venezuela. a new spirit" between the including Senate Democratic The conference will be United States and its neighbors. leader Mike Mansfield and officially opened Thursday by
Senate Republican leader Hugh Mexican President Luis Under heavy security precau­Scott. Echeverria in one of its few 
tions, Kissinger arrived at Mansfield said a new dia­public sessions. Benito Juarez International logue between the United States Kissinger will follow him with Airport to find a cheering and Latin America was "long a statement on Washington's
crowd of Mexicans and tourists. overdue" and the energy crisis hemispheric policy. U.S. offi­
"We are assembled here to -which some Latin American cials cautioned, however,make a new start," he said in a delegates feared would lead to against expecting any radical brief airport speech. "We have a confrontation between the new initiatives from Washing­come here in a new spirit. To U.S. and Venezuela-"will be ton. 
Explore beneath the surface. You'll discover a whole shop of organic foods. The bounty of Mother Earth. Real honey. Grains. Unadulterated and healthy foods. Stored 
for you in this underground domain. 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery 
LONDON. PARIS. ANTWERP. ROTTERDAM. SYDNEY. MElBOURNE. TORONTO. MONTREAL. VANCOUVER. NEW YORK. BOSTON. MIAMI. PHILIDELPHIA. CHICAGO. DETROIT. PITTSBURGH. HOUSTON. DALLAS. PHOENIX. SAN FRANCISCO SF A TTl F l ('lS AhlGI=LI=<: 
• 
Thursday •. Feb,ru~~y ,21 •. J~74

the observer
4 
Glasser to speak at O'Laughlin 

by Judy Peterson Staff Reporter 
William Glasser, M.D., the reknowned auther of Schools Without Failuree, Reality Therapy: New Approach to Society, and The Identity Society, will be appearing at O'Laughlin Auditorium on April 24, from 7:00 
p.m. -9:00p.m. A reception will be held at 9:15 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge for representatives of school systems throughout Nothern Indiana. Dr. Glasser appears in preparation for the proposed opening of a Glasser Institute at St. Mary's next fall. 
His works are based on the belief that there has been a cultural change since World War II from a goal to a role-oriented society. 
Television, civil rights and the 
affluence of modern western 
society are some of the major 
factors affecting this change, 
which he labels "cultural con­
flict." 

Reality Therapy, which stresses inter-personal relationships, has been successfully applied in practice throughout the schools without failure. These schools have eliminated the regimented aspects of present day educational institutions, such as the grading system. 
Also scheduled are workshops on Reality Therapy, Schools Without Failure and Internalization of Discipline, to be held at SMC on June 10, 17, and 24. Details con­cerning the workshops, which can be taken as credited courses, will be released at a later date. 
Rhodes speaks on Kennedy's ,assination 
(continued from page 1) 
I 
On the first point, Rhodes pointed out that Chief of Police Curry told the press "the results of the paraffin test, which would 
determine if a person had shot a weapon durring the day it was administered are not completed, but I understand they will be positive.' This news was later
f 
released. Afterwards, when the complete test was in, the test revealed that Oswald had not shot a gun that day. 
As for Oswald's fingerprints on the sixth floor, Rhodes pointed out the fact that Oswald worked in the building and often worked on that floor. 
Through photographic 
a huge puff of matter, one sees thetechniques, Rhodes presented the president's head explode and thepicture of Oswald as "indeed a fragments fly in the direction ofcomposite with Oswald's face and the rear and right of the car.
the body of another person." 
Rhodes stated, "once you see theThrougp a blow-up, one notes that film, it is obvious that Lee Harvey Oswald's body is twisted in a Oswald did not shoot John Ken­manner that would not allow him nedy."

to stand. Also on close Rhodes then began to note some examination, one can note the line of the strange circumstances thatwhere the photograph was cut, just surround the murder of Kennedy. 
below the lower lip. An obvious The parade route was changed the difference can also be noted in the day before the murder to go downjaw of Oswald and the jaw which Elm Street, by the under Secretary later appeared on the cover of Life of Agriculture.
Magazine. 
Oswald was to have gone downAs firm proof, Rhodes showed four flights of stairs moments after 

the Abraham Zapruder film. In the film, it is obvious that Kennedy is shot first in the neck and then in 
Credit card firms sued 
by Consumers Union 



Love tap.
-
WASHINGTON <UPI) Con­sumers Union sued American Express and BankAmericard Wednesday, accusing the credit card firms of preventing merchants from offering dis­counts to cash customers. 
The suit, filed in U.S. District Court, claimed the two firms' practice was discriminatory and asked the court to forbid the pricing policy. 
"Pegging the prices charged to cash customers to the prices credit card users pay elimi­nates price competition and is tantamount to restraint of trade," a Consumers Union official said. 
"A shopkeeper should be able to pass along these savings to cash customers in the form of discounts and lower prices. But American Express and Bank kAmericard forbid merchants from giving a better deal to cash customers. 
"Since only the credit card user enjoys the added service of paying later, all consumers end up paying for the benefits of credit card holders." 
American Express and Bank kAmericard officials said they would not comment on the suit until they have had time to study it. 
Consumers Union, which pub­lishes the magazine "Consumer Reports," said the provision is included in contracts between companies and merchants that set up credit card service at a particular establishment. The suit claimed the clause violates antitrust laws. 
A lawyer involved in the suit the shots were fired. A witness did showed the Dallas police the not see anyone come down the photograph, and tried to have them stairs . identify who one of the policemen 
Eyewitnesses who testified in the slide was. The police in seeing a man in the grassy knoll Dallas had to admit, that one of the area produce a rifle barrel and men dressed like a policemen was then observe a puff of smoke, an imposter. were dismissed from the Warren Secret Servicemen were seen in report as "incompetant." the area of the grassy knoll 
Three men were arrested on the moments after the shots were day of the assassination, and fired. When questioned, the secret Rhodes :showed slides of the men service said that all of the agents being taken away by police. When went with the president and Rhodes later questioned the Dallas Lyndon Johnson to the hospital. policeas to the names of the men, Rhodes concluded that the men the police stated "We didn't take who identified themselves as their names down." Rhodes agents, were likewise imposters. 
h1t \JII()H 81t!Wfi!Y (.(JMf'A~;Y OEIIKJll MICHIGAN 48:1?0 

illustrated Consumers Union's argument with the example of 
From one beer lover to another.
a customer purchasing a $100 suit. 
If the customer uses a credit 
card, the lawyer said, the 
merchant will pay a certain 
percentage-say 5 per cent, or 
$5-to the credit company and 
keep the remaining $95. But if 
the customer pays cash, the 
merchant keeps the whole $100 
and in effect "saves" the 
commission to the credit 
company. 

Consumers Union contends that saving should be passed on to the cash customer in the form of a lower price. 
The Senate has passed a law that would achieve the same objective as the Consumers Union suit, but the legislation is stalled in the House. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Night Editor: Bill Brink 

Assistant Night Editor: Dan 
Sanchez, Mike Kulczycki 

Layout: Dean Jancke, Andy 
Praschak, Ginny Faust, the 
improbable Chris Smith 

Day Editors: Tom Bundy, Pattie 
Cooney 

Copy Editors: Terry Keeney, Ann 
MeCarry 

Typists: Mary Romer, Karen 
Hinks, Barb Haug, Tom 
Modglin, John Flanigan 
Compughrphic: Joe Abell 
Pictures: Albert D'Anfonio 

Night Controller: 
Joe Abell 

IIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

Thursday, Feb~ua~y '21, 1974 the observer 
Shutdown threatened 
Station owners demand price hikes 
Gasoline station owners warned the government Wednesday it was "sitting on a powder keg" that could explode in a nationwide shutdown of gaso­line pumps unless it granted a substantial increase in retail prices. 
Charles Binsted, president of the National Congress of Petroleum Retailers represent­ing 70,000 dealers, met with deputy federal energy director John C. . Sawhill 1Wednesday about ways to head off a threatened uprising by station owners protesting the need for 
higher prices  to  offset  reduced  
gasoline supplies.  
"We did  not  threaten  Sawhill,  

but we made it very clear this is a serious situation," Binstead said. Sawhill promised to meet with the station owners' re­presentatives again on Satur­day, he said. 
The dealers' representatives urged Sawhill to approve a sliding scale formula which would allow them to increase gasoline prices by their profit margins by one-tenth of 1 per cent for each 1 per cent cutback in gasoline allocations. 
"They are well aware we are sitting on a powder keg," Binsted said, referring to the spreading shutdowns in gaso­line stations in protest against reduced supplies, the profits freeze and growing waiting lines at stations. 
Gov. Marvin Mandel of Maryland announced mean­while he had sued the Federal Energy Office in U.S. District Court in Baltimore "to get our fair share of gasoline for February." 
Mandel said the 2 per cent increase in Maryland's gasoline allocation was insufficient to 
NO's Angel Flight takes top honors 
by Leanne Jacques Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame's Angel Flight, a service organization affiliated with ND's AFROTC detachment and the Arnold Air Society, took top honors at the Tri-area Conclave in Outstanding Flight was awarded Akron, Ohio February 8,9, and 10. · to the Notre Dame Angel Flight for The seven other schools the Tri-area district. Andie represented at the conclave were McGugan, Head Commander, Indiana U., Michigan State, U. of said, "This award goes to the flight Michigan, U. of Detroit, Bowling that best supports their university Green, and Butler. through services and promotes the 

by Pattie Cooney St. Mary's Editor 
Previously published dates concerning room selection, printed 
in the calendar and telephone  are  
inaccurate.  
Fifty dollar  room  deposits  are  

due, March 15. Room lottery for all class years start at 6:30p.m. on March 20, in the Student Affairs area in Le Mans. Room selections start March 21, at 6:30 p.m. in the same place. The schedule is as follows: 
3-21 Room selection for Resident Advisors 3-25 Room selection for Seniors, nos. 1-175 3-26 Room selection for Seniors, nos. 176 end 
3-27 Room selection for Juniors, nos. 1-175 3-28 Room selection for Juniors, nos. 176-end 4-2 Room selection for Sophomores, nos. 1-175 4-3 Room selection for Sophomores, nos. 176-end 
To move off campus a student must be a senior, junior, or 21 years old. Both an application and a parent permission card must be 
ACAPULCO 
SUNNY 
85° 
an file at the Housing Office by The housing situation for next March 15. Permission can only be year will be tight. Currently every granted after that date at the room is occupied except for a few discretion of the Housing Coor· in Regina. "We'll have a full house dinator. After March 15 room' next year, so girls should be deposits are non-refundable. making their plans now," com­
Students who do not need a room mented Housing Director, Mrs. next semester must complete a Karen O'Neill. housing withdrawal form in the Augusta Hall is currently being Housing Office by March 15. After used by the Holy Cross Sisters. that date room deposits will not be For any information regarding refunded. housing, students may contact 
Any day students or off campus Mrs. O'Neill at 5401, Student Af­students who wish to move onto fairs Office 4317, or Marianne campus, must also pay room Rinella, chairman of the room deposits by March 15. selection committee at 4308. 

interests of the United States. the Air Force and ROTC detachment. 
Their service activites this year included a Halloween party at Logan Center, work for the MuscularDystrophyDrive, a book­fair for Wilkes-Barre College (victimized by flood), Christmas caroling at Memorial Hospital, and a monthly service project. 
Notre Dames's Angel Flight also received the Paul E. Nelson Award, for the Angel Flight that 
best  supports  the  Arnold  Air  
Society  objectives,  and  the  
Scrapbook  Award.  They  will  

represent the Tri-area District at the National Conclave in Houston, Texas March 24·28. 
This year's Angel Flight officers are: Andie McGugan, Head Commander; Martha May, Executive Officer; Mary Fenton, Administration Officer; Mary Eberhardt, Information Officer; Shauna Dunn, Pledge Master; Karen Brennan, Comptroller, Shelly Karrenbauer, Liason Operations. 
meet his state's needs. He said the state was getting 77.3 per cent of its supplies of two years ago, "ompared with an average 
83.3 per cent nationwide. 
In Tucson, Ariz., U.S. District Judge William C. Frey signed a temporary restraining order against federal energy director William E. Simon's order prohibiting gasoline station 
discrimination  in  favor  of  
regular  customers  -a  prime  
source  of  station  operators'  
complaints.  
Simon  said  he  would  not  

hestitate to recommend gaso­line rationing if spot shortages became widespread, but that he didn't think rationing was necessary. He withheld judg­ment until the emergency re­allocation of 84 million gallons of gasoline to 20 hard-hit states, announced Tuesday, took effect. 

POSiE~E6~FER 
Here's your chance to savor the sweet­
• ness of the Sugar ~ .: r Bow! win forever by 
: • ownmg one of these 
swell 3 foot long posters, !3uy 2 and cover your window. 
SJ.OO 
Now 
Available at 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS 


VACATION 
AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you 
like. Travel comfortably. Arrive·refreshed and on t1me. You'll save m01'l'3y, too. over the mcreased standbv a1r fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays Anytime. Go Greyhound 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE-· ROUND-LEAVE ARRIVE TO WAY TRIP 
Chicago $5.05 $9.60 9:25A.M. 11:25 A.M. Toledo $8.30 $15.80 9:15 A.M. 1:25 P.M. Pittsburgh $20.40 $38.80 6:20 A.M. 5:05 P.M. Milwaukee $8.40 . $16.00 9:25 A.M. 2: 15 P.M. Detroit $10.65 $20.25 10:35 A.M.4:30 P.M. 
Ask your agent about additional departures and return trtps 
GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 210 WEST MONROE 287-6541 
£!1Greyhound
~ A change for the better 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett
Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos

Lee Gentine 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661

Business Manager Advertising Manager 
BUSINESS: 283-7471 

Thursday, February 21, 1974 
fram the editar!s desk: 
A Cloud of Fear 
Wednesday morning, the sun broke out of the gray skies of past days and brightened up Notre Dame considerably. For a change, the sky was a pale blue and the Dome shone against it with picture­postcard splendor. 
It was the kind of day that made you happy to be alive and even being at Notre Dame was almost a pleasure. But the beauty of the day and the feeling that 
spring was feeling  may have arrived in counter-balanced by ..... another concern.  February another  
A Sense of Fear  

The beauty and good feelings were veing balanced by a sense of fear-a fear that seems prevelant at Notre Dame. 
The people of Notre Dame are afraid to relate to one another, they seem afraid to communicate their feelings and to touch each other. Maybe it's the thoughts of a much too long winter, but I think it's something else. 
The trouble apparently stems from a fear of identification and a corresponding fear of reprisal. Most people here are afraid to admit that they said something. They prefer not to take the credit for an article or for an action. The shadow of anonymity hides all and shields all from danger. The attitude that is most ap­parent is that ifI say something that's out of line, I'll pay for it. 
Method of Judging 
The only method of judging this that we have available are the letters that we receive. Surprisingly, the volume of letters that this newspaper has received this year is far above that of any year before. People at Notre Dame have a lot to say and a desire to say it, but they must be terrified to admit that they actually said it. 
Over 50 percent of the letters to the editor received at The Observer come unsigned or with the request to have the name withheld from it. That's not a healthy sign. Most of the letters are over silly matters...far from anything that would merit reprisal from anyone or any office. 
The Clincher 

But Wednesday the clincher finally came. A letter came to the office com­plaining about the Armory Party.· Everyone respects another person's right to complain about anything. Yet, this letter simply expressing a person's disappointment with the party came with the plea to"Please don't print my name." 
What are people afraid of anyway? I wish I could say that the sun coming out and spring being on its way would cure everything, but that would be foolish of me, wouldn't it? The problem seems to extend much deepr than that. 
From What Source 
Though it's questionable if blame can be placed in a situation like this, one must first look at the office of student affairs, for their actions most directly affect student life at Notre Dame. 
If there is this feeling of fear within the student population, the student affairs staff has to ask themselves if they have done something wrong or if they are operating in methods that create this fear. Someone, somewhere is doing something wrong if people are afraid. And the huge, overridng question is why should people be afraid at a University that pledges itself to "Christian com­munity." 
It's something to think about. And if the sun shines again today (yes, even in Indiana the sun can shine two days in a row) enjoy it. But don't let its presence disguise the fact that something is wrong. 
-Jerry Lutkus 
.... . . ·~ . 


Pal_. Bearin~s A Serious Choice 
ann mc:c:arry 
A hoax, an ego-trip, an excuse for a party, an impressive qualification and uncomfortable silence. Student government elections are these and more at Notre Dame. 
Student politicking has an interesting heritage at du Lac. Those involved have ranged from rebels with causes to pooh-bahs with briefcases, to vermin, caught with their fingers in the till. Once in a while a "Boss" Daley machine will bloom or a pseudo-nobleman with supernatural powers will run the show. 
Too rarely there appears an honest man with a real concern, a selfless motive and a capability for solid action. 
You will be witnessing the birth and rebirth of many such characters in the coming days. They are all a part of black comedy entitled "The Student Government Elections:' 
The play has been in preparation for untold weeks, months and even years, in some cases. (Some candidates have been known to admit that they enrolled with this objective in mind.) The public per­formances begin now as the various SBP and SBVP aspirants an­nounce their candidacies. 
For some the campaign and subsequent elections are nothing more than this--a play, a psycho-drama, an alternative to the February blahs. Others are earnest politicians-dedicated to the proposition that all students are created equal but that they are a bit more equal than the rest. 
Afew believe that student government is a viable entity on campus and has the potential of becoming an effective, efficient service to the university, facilitating not only the student body but the faculty and administration as well. 
The candidates' qualifications vary. Some are short and some are tall. Some like premed, some hate football. Some have been involved in an ND political machine for the duration of their college career or are refugees from hall government organizations. Some are new talents, taking a chance and hoping for the best. 
Who the candidates are, what they look like, what ideology they profess is, unfortunately, rarely important. The Notre Dame voter has a reputation for being irratiic, irrational and easily swayed. Nonconscientious and narrow-minded the Notre Dame electorate has habitually chosen the "Forgone Conclusion" or the "Last Minute Whimsy. "It is this same electorate that will rise in flaming fury some months later when a pre-Labor Day registration date is set as the Dean of Student's Office pinpoints a new party policy or organizes a squad of campus narcs. 
The voters want and need a responsible student government then, one that can ~peak and at least be heard if not listened to, also. The Observer may be a mouthpiece or even a mold for public opinion. It is not , however, primarily an administration-student body go­between. A student government is necessary for a consistently positive representation of student opinion in university affairs. 
The choice of candidates will be yours and there will be many from which to choose. Only one slate of candidates can win. 
Think carefully, considering all the alternatives in relation to what Notre Dame is to you and what you would like it to become. Jumping on a bandwagon with rash abandon can be• diverting but it can be disastrous too. 
Think. Vote deliberately, please. You, the voter, are the only one 
that .can lose. 


daanesbury 
tAW 

j  SCHOOl-? )O{II'ff"AN nt"R£ 60NNA  
"  I?VN fOR.  
~  5ENA7lJR OR  
SCY-rEfHIN'?!  
~  \  
!  

2-;1./ 

ANO IT OOESN'T 11ATT£R 
ONE BIT THAT YOV'VE 8£EN 0/VORCEfJ. THAT FAVt..T CAN 8E OVc/lCOMc / Ot' NEL.50N R.OCK£HU.ER 010 IT/ YG.S, 
YOt/ COt/tOGO ON TO BECOME A J'IAJOR I'Ot!TICAL F/6(1~ 
81./T" Y0£/'.0 BE A N£1tr SENATOR./ 
YOt/ SHOt/tO GIVE IT SOME R.EAL. THOIJGHTI NO KIOOING/ 
I 
I?AR£ TO 0~ 8~ GREAT, Att 1?161/T.. MS. (Af/Cf/5. 

••rry trudeau 
the 



of Iiving 
'' 0 -c I I 
as z u -:a • • w•
~& a * u -' 
Thursday, February 21, 1974 the observer 
7 

Many a housewife and many an off-campus 
student begins the day at the laundrorr.at. 
.... 
Dinner at six? No problem when you're organized. 
Few houses escape at least an occasional backlog of dirty dishes .. 
There comes a time when a man must take matters 
into his own hands. 
A little elbow grease and a sense of humor help put 
things back in order. 
(photos by Mike Budd) 

• I '1. . ,·. 

Thursday, February 21, 1974
a th~' observe-;· 
•~ 
l 
~ 
k l 
~ 
• 
~ 
•l 
~ ~ 
I 
I 
•~ 
•a 
~~ 
~ 

NOW RENTING 






CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
ONE & TWO BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS 
CONVENIENT LOCATION 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 

AVAILABLE FOR OCCUPANCY AUGUST, 1974 

FOR ~ENTAL INFORMATION CALL 232-5853 
CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT COMPANY 30 12 E. EDISON ROAD, SOUTH BEND 
RENTAL OFFICE OPEN:  THURSDAY  1·5  
FRIDAY  1·5  
SATURDAY  1-5  
.  ~( ·~ ............~ ......... ' ... '.  ,., -..  . .  .  ..  1,(  SUNDAY  l~5  

marceau's performance praised by some . • • 
a review by ann mccarry 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, a dark sea of hushed whispers, the cur­tains parted to reveal a barren, expectant stage. A flicker of ac­tion and suddenly a spot-lit figure. 
Striking an inimitable pose, vaguely reminiscent of a Tarot card, the piquant Pierre Verry unfurled a silk banner announcing the first pantomime-"A Sunday Walk." 
A pregnant blackout then a splash of light. Marcel Marceau, the world's greatest mime, graciously acknowledged the welcoming acclaimation of his audience Tuesday night. 
The performance proceeded swiftly and efficiently--a well­chosen and organized selection of vignettes from the master's repertoire. Each pantomime flowed, consistently expressing the grace, control and classic style of Marceau that permeated the performance. Another factor consistent with the performance was, unfortunately the lack of rapport between the artist and his audience. Nonetheless, the pan­tomimes displayed Marceau's versatility as well. Miming the 
"SevenDeadly Sins,' or interpreting 
Marcel Marceau describes 
mime as an art "halfway between 
dancing and theatre ... a complete 
art in the sense that it tends 
towards an aU-embracing 
definition of the human being. The 
art of the mime," he continues, "is 
the portrayal of the human being in 
its most secret yearnings." 
Yet, one of the most memorable 
aspects of Marceau's performance 
Tuesday night was its humor. In all 
but two of the sketches, the im­
mediate result of the action was 
laughter at the expense of some 
interpreted and satirized human 
movement. This could be un­
fortunate, because a critique on 
the idiosyncrasies of man certainly 
cannot constitute his "most secret 
yearnings," nor can humor help 
but obscure the true beauty of the 
dance of form that is mime. 
"A gesture, unless lyrically 
sustained, is but a drawing in 
space. Still, it is necessary to 
measure and situate it in time by 
giving it dramatic power. This 
power will either prove poetical, or 
will contrast brutally with its 
outline, leaving only a spasm, a 
jolt, a break ..." 
Thus wrote Marceau in 1956, 
when mime for that artist did not 
intimate humor or Bip. His 
current sketches do present a jolt, 
a break with natural rhythm of 
human harmony, and thus the 
humor. Marceau is undoubtedly 
trying to express the beauty of 
mimetic action through his 
comedies, yet he seems to be 
primarily evoking mirth, of which 
he is surely conscious. 
Somehow I feel that the fluid 
beauty and continuity of the 
dramatic action is broke by the 
sporadic, episodic movements of 
the artist in the form he has 
assumed today. The emphasis has 
changed and developed as the 
artist has aged and become sen­
sitive to the tastes of his audience. 
~BOAC 
We still have Youth Fares to Europe 
Call Clark 234-2098 and save money. 
with a unique ballet quality, the "Creation of the World,"Marceau was a symphony of imagination, talent and elegance combined with the concentration and dedication that epitomizes his art. 
These techniques were best exhibited in the intensity of the Maskmaker. Assuming the character of a mask-molding artisan, Marceau became the creator modelling his creations. Marceau's expression changed in rapid succession, a tribute to his adroit facial control. 
The punch line is that the Mask­makercannot remove the laughing visage from his own. With simple gesture, although his facial ex­pression is frozen in the smile, Marceau communicates the anxiety and immense aggravation of the frustrated craftsman. 
His audience intrigued with the mime's talented use of comedy, satire, and the simple ease with which he intimated the nuances of the persons and situations he portrayed, Marceau returned, in the second half of his performance, with a series of "Bip" pan­tomimes. 

Marceau created "Bip" in 1947. The battered clown, attired in his traditional striped pullover and a tattered, rose-adorned hat, has been described as Marceau's "alter-ego." Perhaps "Bip" is 
• • • and criticized by others 
The Marceau of 1956 could have never appeared with Johnny Carson. 
The "new" Marcel Marceau is just as much a genius as the "old." The ability to dissect human action to its most fundamental parts, to reconstruct it wittily, almost satirically, has made Marceau the most popular mime artist of our time. By the same token, it has also delineated a clear Marceau brand of mime separate from tradition and criticized as a distinct style, destined to last only as long as its perpetrator. 
In addition to comedy, the new Marceau is distinguished by the use of facial expression. Though facial articulation is important to the whole mime experience, it must not dominate to the extent that is obscures the movements of the body. With the mime of Mar­ceau, it is very easy to become involved with his facial contortions 
to the exclusion of all else. Within the period of one year, Marceau's selections have shifted from a morP balanced involvement of the body to a seeminging dependence on the face. The easiest and most effective reactions expressions can generate is mirth; thus the dif­ference between the mime of Marceau and the tradition which preceeded him. 
Moreover, Marceau has begun to rely more heavily on music, not only to bridge and complete his sketches, but also to provide a cadence for the movement. I am reminded of Red Skelton who completed each of his shows with the "Silent Spot." He too relied on music and effects to supply what his own actions could not. It is much easier. 
That Marcel Marceau has succeeded in bringing mime to the attention of the people is un­deniable, yet the methods he has Plays David and Goliath", "Bip" brings to life the inner personality of Marceau, which, up until now, has only colored the performance. 
Here is the essence of Marcel Marceau--the paradox of the simple man, gracefully per­forming under pressure of a demanding, fairly unresponsive audience, sharing with them the intricate wealth of his imagination, illuminating all with his brilliant perception of man and his society. 
Saving his best for last, Mal'{:eau summoned all of his talent, in­sights and poetic imagery for "Bip as a Soldier." Marceau's "Bip" traces the life of a soldier as he 
leaves his sweetheart, enlists, marches to the front, and, finally, is killed in battle. 
Emanating sincerely poignant feeling through discreetly telling 
mime,accentuated by subtle lighting changes, Marceau, previously comic and witty, now portrays the greatest tragedy known to man. 
The performance is ended.• The stage once again bare and blackened. The art remains, the echoes of Marcel Marceau's ability, his perpetual encore. 
used to reach this goal often leave the sensitive viewer in doubt. Some would even go as far as to equate the popularization of mime with its vulgarization. Nevertheless, Marceau believes in his art just as adamantly as Etienne Decroux, 
by tom gora 

and he has the added satisfaction of knowing he is tremendously successful. No doubt, then, in the face of this and other criticism, Marceau will remain unperplexed, treating these comments as he does all else-in silence. 


THE PLAYHOUSE 
LOVE NIGHT 
Every Thurs. Nite 
EXPERIENCE THE UlTIMATE 
WITH THE COOL PEOPlE BAND Appearing Feb. 21-Mar. 14 Jam session rocks at 9 Chet The Jet will MC 


Destroying stereotypes 
Editor: 
Having spent four years at Notre Dame and a year and a half after that working actively in and with the South Bend-Mishawaka communities, I've a comment to rnake. First, to the amazement of r-1any, though not all, Notre Dame students and some faculty, I would like to report that all the people of the neighboring city are not ignorant, nanow-minded, back­ward, eat-with-their-fingers clods. I wish I had a mill for each time in the past five and a half years I've heard students here cut down South Bend, its citizens, weather, stones, etc., etc., ad infinitum. Flash! South Bend is a nice town a whole lot like a lot of towns. 
My perception is that the sources 
of students' disgruntlement are 
generally, 1. )their own home town 
is paradise and the very center of 
the cultural, entertainment, etc., 
world -hence no town may measure 
up, or, 2.) the students don't really 
know South Bend and Mishawaka 
people. As Freshmen there is the 
laughter and scorn heard when 
they ask about "down town" the 
first tie, and, having accepted the 
prejudgement and keeping con­
tacts to a minimum, the prophecy 
is fulfilled. 
I might add that, although 
married now myself, all the girls in 
South Bend, alias "townies," are 
not sluts and tramps. In this 
regard, let it suffice to remark that 
here, as in any town, water seeks 
its own level. Again, you can find 
what you're looking for. 
To whit: Give South Bend and 
Mishawaka a chance. What have 
you got to lose? Although there 
may be no basis in realityto appeal 
on such a level, you might consider 
that as Notre Dame (you 
remember, "Our Mother," the 
Mother of Christ), declares itself 
Christian, the burden is perhaps 
especially on the men and women 
of the University. 
It would be incredibly naive for 
me to maintain that the people of 
South Bend-Mishawaka are 
blameless in what at times seems 
to amount to a genre of cold war 
between the communities. What 
I'd most like to say to those at 
Notre Dame who would ut South 
Bend down just because it's South 
Bend is this: Be open. We can all 
find characteristics in and person 
or group that are ugly, unkind and 
worthy of our dislike. The alter­
native is communication, treating 
every one (and each community) 
as the unique person he or she is 
and just caring about the other guy 
as a fellow human being. 
I've written a note to the "South Bend Tribune"with similar pur­pose and content: "Let there be peace on Earth, and let it begin with me." Let it begin here, between the South Bend and Notre Dame communities. 
Sincerely, J.C.P. ('72) 
Open more soapboxes 
Editor: 
This is a Christian University. We hear that phrase from all sources, faculty and student alike. 

generous with the student's money So be careful Mister or Miss in buying enough of what they Distinguished Gourmet because advertize. some day when you are running through the dining hall lines youName witheld by request just might see someone who is a little slow or is cutting in line. If Soup kitchens he's got an ole stogie, beware; for 
the free loader is everywhere. Editor: 
Sincerely, This letter is in response to the Freddie Freeloader 
(Don Hallman )

February 20th letter printed: "0. C. Freeloaders." 
719 Rex St. 

South Bend, Ind. 46616
Surely the 15 fo 20 minutes this person has waited in line should be totally blamed on O.C. students. 
Another Faley fan
Never before has there been a 
We hear it, but actions do not against premarital sex or abortion. waiting line to eat at the Editor: support the words. The question is how can the dining hall. Right? Basically this 
The recent revision of the University claim it wishes to person should be happy there are Many thanks for your article on student manual by the SLC and the construct a community share the these "100" off-campus students Don Faley (Blarney Stoned), Feb. Office of Student Affairs just individual can grow spiritually as who eat the surplus of food: 20 . I'm sure I speak for many in reinforces the contradiction of life well as physically while excluding because without them, he or she agreeing with John Fineran's view at Notre Dame. The same SLC debate. would be eating leftovers for three of Mr. Faley as an outstanding that issued the statement that. all The free flow of ideas is the most days instead of two. We, the "100" person as well as a fine coach. He who come here either share the important aspect of the growth of off-campus students, jee everyday shows an added interest in his Catholic faith or tolerate the an individual. If in your four years 'and bombard the lines with our students as an instructor in his values of the Christian religions at Notre Dame your ideas and presence just to screw up the physical education classes and as a completely ignores that precept in convictions are not challenged organization and management of friend outside of class. Don Faley its actions Perhaps it never they probably never will be. the dining hall. We're radicals in is already a 'major' coach in the ocurred to SLC members that by Our challenges of each other's disguise! eyes of many; I hope many more passing the new calendar, ignoring convictions is the most important The financial burden it is on this Notre Dame students get a chance the sentiment of the majority of the way in which we learn to live and person must really be serious. to see the kind of coach he is by student body, that they have deal with people and if our need to Probably the only thing he or she attending future track meets. shirked their Christian respon­defend our ideas is removed by has oaid for on this campus is beer Thanks again for major mention of sibility. This responsibility is to do allowing only ond stand, the (or dope). Without good old dad at fine person. what is fair and equitable to the community will stagnate. home shelling out the beans he or entire community while avoiding Let's hope this will not happen. she would never be here. Tom Walrath injury to as many memvers as 
possible. Maybe the SLC has a John Garofalo, Jr. good reason for ignoring the 
PUT YOUR SLIDES UP IN LIGHTS!! student feeling to protect the students and if there is a good 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association wants your 35mm
reason it is their Christian Another shortage 
Kodachrome or Ektachrome slides for use in multi-media
obligation to do so. It seems im­
presentaions on campus and in Alumni Clubs around the country. We'll duplicate particularly appropriate slides
possible that there could be a 
reason that this community could Editor: 
from your collection arid compensate you (modestly) for
not understand. If a convincing 
their use. We can use general campus scenes and seasonal
reason exists why not just give it to Last week in Wednesday's and 
shots, as well as slides of hall life, sports, other student ac­
us. The reasons we already have Thursday's Observer, the Armory 
tivities, etc. Contact Mike Jordan in the Alumni Office at
been given have not convinced us. Party to take place on Friday, Feb. 
7267. Or visit us in the Main Building (second floor, west
The new manual revision con-15th was advertized. The article 
wing).

tains many assumptions and in Wednesday's paper stated, generalitites. The worst is that "The admission fee of three dollars those who come here have ac-per person entitles a person to all cepted the University tradition the beer, hot dogs and peanuts he 
5 ACADEMY AWARD 
before arriving. It seems that just can consume." 

NOMINATIONS INCLUDING:
the opposite opinion is expressed in It seems that the coordinators of application information. The the party were successful in 
BEST PICTURE BEST DIRECTOR,
student applying here is told of the "ripping off" the students while at 

& BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS
new move to co-education, the new the same time making a con­tradition of Notre Dame. Yet the siderable amount of money for 
307 !i Mich1gan St 28i-/8u0 LAST NIGHT
student manual will say that the themselves. Taking the 9:00 bus 
"DAY OF THE
rules and mores of the University from the Circle, I arrived at the are base~ on "130 years of Armory unable to find any peanuts 
DOLPHIN" 

tradition." on the tables or near the beer 
()t!OI!EATRI 
OPEN 7:00

The most glaring contradiction stations. Also, the article stated in the new 1·ules is the University that one could have all the hot dogs stand on premarital sex. How can one could consume. This the same University who allows statement was a down-right lie. discussion on the morals of abortion Each person was entitled to only exclude discussion about one hot dog all night. In addition, premarital sex? The feelings of by 11:00 all the hot dogs were gone. the University about sexual union If these Seniors wanted to "throw before marriage are expressed in a party to do things up right," I'm the rules section of the manual afraid they fail~d to please the revision and must be viewed as a students. But, as an encouraging rule. The University refused to note, they did succeed in making issue a statement about abortion their own profit by deceitful last year beacuse it claimed moral means(namely, not buying enough rulings are in the realm of the hot dogs and peanuts). Church not in that of a free and I sincerely hope that future open community of scholars. The Armory Party coordinators will be issue is not wheteher one is for or kind enough to be a little more 
• 




ENGINEERS • 
'ti

.• .•
~

In energy fields, communications, highway safety, consumer 
• Q. c_:,· •
protection, exploring inner and outer space, defense, environ­
ment.. ..Federal agencies have been given responsibility for 
• N ~ • 
some of the most important work being done today. 
Some of their jobs are unique, with projects and facilities 
• 
found nowhere else. All are challenging and offer excellent 
.• .•
""""' 

potential for advancement. Good people are in demand. 
• ¥ • 
Our nationwide network can get your name referred to agen­• b g • cies in every part of the country. Chances are some of them 
. 
~ ~ .. . 
u -2 

are doing things you'd like to do. ~ ~ 
• (/) 0... • 
Write to: Engineering Recruitment, Room 6A11 'gl....; () •
• 
·r:: 0 i 


• 0) ~ ~S:> "J •
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION 
• E: ~ ;:.., ~ -~ ~ ~ •
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20415 
• ~ ~ 0 ~ .~ ~ ~ •
•

----·.AJ\/IERICA IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER-­

-----------------------.-~------------------~~---------------------------.. ,J 
Ford deniesWatergate influence 
Luken) who is tied up with the President Nixon handled the gate) committee or special political trends. AFL·CIO and big labor." Watergate situation "very poor­prosecutors more material "In 1946, Republicans lost
By RICK VAN SANT 

Gradison is seeking the House ly right from the start." more promptly. In retrospect, I several (special) elections, yet seat vacated by former Rep. And Ford said Wednesday: "I think they could have handled in the November elections the CINCINNATI <UPI) -Vice William Keating, R-Ohio, who believe the White House could it differently." Republicans were the bigPresident Gerald R. Ford, still resigned to become president of have handled it better," said Ford cautioned against view­winners. So what happens now chafing over the loss of his old the Cincinnati Enquirer. Ford. "They probably could ing Democratic victories in is not necessarily a forecast of 
House seat to a Democrat, said Gradison has said he believes have given the (Senate Water-special elections as setting what is to come," he said. Wednesday such special elec­tions have nothing to do with 
Watergate and are not indica­tions of a trend for November. Campaigning on behalf of a 
1n Sahara
Gatch beaches balloon • 
Republican running in a special 
Congressional election to be held here next month, Ford WASHINGTON <UPI) -Ad­
off from Harrisburg, Pa., has been keeping an eye open Armstrong said Gatch wouldconceded that the White House venturer Thomas L. Gatch, Monday, he hoped to land in for Tom," Armstrong said. He not attempt a nighttime landing"could have handled <Water-attempting the world's first Europe but high altitude winds said that because of Gatch's in Africa, but would wait until
gate) better." manned transatlantic balloon of up to 166 miles an hour blew rather erratic southerly route after daybreak today.
But he reiterated his conten-flight, sailed toward an expect­across the ocean, visual sight­
him instead toward Africa.

lion that the main factor in the ed landing in the Sahara Desert Bill Armstrong, a Federal ing by an airliner had become Baltic Club first election of a Democrat to today, about 1,000 miles north 
difficult. He said most tran­
Energy Office employe who
his former Michigan district of earlier predictions. 
assisted Gatch in the prepara­soceanic flights follow a more sponsors lecture since 1910 was the unsettled Land trackers had previously northerly pattern.
tion of his pressurized craft
economic situation in Michigan expeted Gatch to land in Gatch adjusted his altitude at library aud.
"Light Heart," said the last
and around the nation. Dakar, Senegal, but later said reported communication with Monday evening, when just 76
"The economic climate here unpredictable winds blew him the 48-year old bachelor Army minutes into the flight, one of(in Cincinnati), however, is toward the Spanish Sahara. 
his ten balloons burst. He was The Baltic Club is sponsoring a
reserve colonel came about 7
good so this won't be a It was the second major able to drape the sagging lecture tonight on the historical
p.m. EDT Wednesday when the
referendum on the economy," change in predictions where Santa Maria Oceanic Radio balloon over his 190-pound and cultural trends of the said Ford. "In this case, it will Gatch, riding at about 35,000 gondola and continue the trip. Estonian, Latvian, and Lithuanian 
Network station on the Azores
be a political contest between feet inside a sealed spherical The plastic and fiber glass people. The speaker will be Mary
picked up a signal.

<Republican) Bill Gradison who vehicle hanging below nine gondola is equipped with Kriaucuinas who has appeared at
"All commercial airline traf­
is his own man and his helium-filled balloons, is ex­fic on the east coast of Africa flotation equipment to keep it Northwestern University, St. 
<Democratic) opponent (Tom pected to land. When he lifted seaworthy if Gatch has to ditch Xavier College, and other into the ocean. universities throughout the
Volunteers needed 
Gatch, of Alexandria, Va., Midwest. was spotted by two airlines Kriauciunas will present various Tuesday morning and plotted issues that have affected the on radar later Tuesday about traditions and folk art of the Baltic 
1,500 miles east of San Juan, peoples. These issues range from 

SMC orientation planned 
P.R. Still later he gave off the crusades of the Teutonic by Pattie Cooney Knights to the Soviet occupation of
men arrive, however this could be tation. some signals to the radio station St. Mary's Editor eliminated with adequate early "Sure it's a lot of work and on the Azores, about 1,000 miles the Baltic countries. Volunteers are needed to run St. The lecture is at 8:15p.m. in the
planning. headaches, but in the end it all west of Lisbon, Portugal.
Mary's 1974 Freshman Orien­
The 1973 Orientation program seems worthwhile and you've mettation. Two General Chairmen, was termed a success in terms of a lot of new and interestingtwo Big Sister chairmen, a Social the number of well attended social people," commented Byrne.
Chairman and others are the activities. Among these activities Anyone interested in working onpositions available. 
was a carnival, social, and ice orientation may call Melissa "It is very important to get cream social. It is hoped that the Byrne and Kathy Weber at 4700 orvolunteers before Spring Break, so new plans for hall life will provide contact the Student Affairs Officeplans can be made ahead of time. 
more social activities for orien-in Le Mans Hall. 
We worked at a disadvantage last year, because we only had a month to plan activities before leaving for the summer," explained 
On-campus mail begins
Melissa Byrne, Co-General Chairman of the '73 orientation. A St. Mary's task force Student Union Commissioner Columbus building, and in front of 
recommended an early start in Jim Nowalk announced last week La Fortune. No stamps are needed planning this year's program for that the on-campus mail service and deliveries go to both ND and freshmen aPd transfer students. l.!as once again begun operation. SMC. Traditionally orientation chairmen Tom Kurkjy is the on-campus
Nowalk said that anyone, in­
come back to school before fresh-postman. Drops made before the
cluding off-campus students, 
faculty and staff members, 12:30 pick-up time on Monday thru 
Dr. Ray chosen wishing to send mail anywhere on Friday will be collected by him and campus should use the service. delivered the same day with the With postal rates rising next hall mail. There are no weekend
SMC speaker month, he noted, the system should collections. 
be more popular than ever. Nowalk blamed the inactivity of
Dr. Dixy Lee Ray, chairman of 
the system last semester on a lack the U.S. Atomic Energy Com­There are four bright yellow of funds. Now that the operation
mission (AEC), will be the speaker drop-boxes for on-campus mail. has sufficient backing, though, he 
for the 127th annual Com­They arelocated in front of both hopes that the campus will take 
mencement at St. Mary's College, rlining halls, by the Knights of 
advantage of the service. 

Saturday, May 18. 
In August, 1972, Dr. Ray became the first woman ever named to a full five-year term, following her appointment by President Nixon. In February, 1973, the President announced her appointment as chairman, making her the first woman chairman of the AEC. 
Dr. Ray holds B.A. and M.A. degrees in zoology from Mills College in Oakland, California, and received her Ph. D. in biology from Stanford University. 
Prior to her AEC appointment, Dr. Ray ! was director of the Pacific Science Center in Seattle, Washington, and and associate professor of zoology at the University of Washington. 
From 1960-62, Dr. Ray was a special consultant in biological oceanography to the National Science Foundation. She was a chief scientist and visiting professor on the Stanford University research ship during the International Indian Ocean Expedition in 1964, and served on the Presidential Task Force on Oceanography in 1969. 

Marx Brothers Film Festival 
February 22nd-24th at the Engineering Auditorium 
FRI:  "The Cocoanuts" "Monkey Business"  at 6 and 10 pm  
SAT:  "Horsefeathers' "Duck Soup"  at 6 and 10 pm  
SUN:  "A Night at the Opera" "Go West" at 6 and 10 pm  

Two films will be presented at each showing at 6, and then again at 10 pm. Admission to each showing is $1.00 
Library Auditorium. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

RIDES WANTED The Galaxy-the 
Need ride on 1-80 to Iowa Citypanasonic modular system. Compatible 8-track included. 
Iowa Thurs or Fri. Call 6416 niles . $$$.

$135 or $150 with 8-track. Call Ed at 1505. 
Need ride to Wheaton, Ill. for 2 Golf clubs , 3 wood 8 irons steel 
Feb. 22, aafter 3:30. Call 7683. shafts. 1 yr. old. Mike 287-9553 
Need ride to Idaho, Utah, or
after 6. 

vicinity. Will share $$$. Call Sony CF 620 Fm stereo-AM 
Howard 1175 Built in stereo cassette 
Ride needed to N. Jersey or Urecorder. Speakers included. 
of Ill. Can leave anytime.
Col in. 7965. 

March 6 after 2 pm. Call Jim Guild bass guitar with dual 
1409. (fender-Guild) pick up. Case included. $165.00 Best offer. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Feb. 
22. Call Mark 3623.
Call Jim 1409. 

Need ride to Terre Haute for Call 1875. 
2 Bob Hope tix-lower arena. 
Spring Break. Call Tom 3232. 
Need ride to Cincinnati, Fri.
Pre-CBS Fender Bandmaster head exc. best offer. over $125. 

Will pay expenses. Call 1027. 233-1876. 
Need ride to Purdue Feb. 22. Please ca II 3283.
For sale: 2 Bob Hope $6.50 tix. Call 8539. 
NOTICES 
SMC Summer School in London travel in Ireland Scotland, Wales, England and Paris.
WANTED 
May 20-Jun 20. College credit available. $795 plus tuition.

2 guys want 2 giris to share Professor Black 284-4948 officehouse for Sept. Call Mike at 272-3726 home.
1100. 

Good tickets now available for Need 1 GA West Va. ticket. 
th March 1 + 2 performances of 2 Gentlemen og Verona atWill pay well. 1621. 

Morris Civic. Student Union Need 3 hockey tix for Sat. Jack 
ticket office open from 1-5 daily.
3486. 
WINDJAMMER an 8 piece Jazz-rock band available for allDesperately need 2 $7.50 or 

$6.50 tix for Bob Hope. Call musical occasions. Call Don at1248. 
1409 for info. LOST AND FOUND 
Will give 2 Yes tix for ride to Cincinatti for concert weekendLost contacts in white case, of March 4 Call Tom 8986 Jack

near ACC. Reward. 234·831.4. 
8998. Lost Blue Parka coat at Ar· 
PERSONALS

mory, please return glasses, keys, and pills . 320 Fisher or 
To D.C.
call 3017. 1478. 
Happy 19th Birthday. the Rockett Fan Club. 

Lost at Armory 34 length brown 
Butchcorduroy, Zero King mens "Cursed be the ...etc, etc, etc.

coat. call Judy 6804. 
Love, jr 

~p----~-.~~--------------------------~----------------~--~--------~~----------------------~~~-------------------------­
~ 
t 





Gary Brokaw-hardcourt magic 
court. Hopefully for Gary, it won't "It's a matter of me reachingby Greg Corgan end when he plays his last game my peak,"saidBroke."I'm playing . for Notre Dame. with a little more confidence nowHis teammates call him "I wanted to be a pro basketball trying to bring myself along, and"Broke," and one calls him player since I was six years old," get ready for tournament time.
"Pretty Tony." But to fans on the explains Brokaw. "That's been I'm trying to correct all mybasketball court he's "Mr. 

my goal for a long time. I think I mistakes to the point where I have Magic." 
could step right into pro ball. total confidence in every facet ofFor if the name fits wear it, and Coach Phelps has prepared me for my game."
Gary Brokaw wears it very well. 

this, and Notre Dame has prepared Whether he's driving underneath me for this, both physically and Confidence is important not onlyfor another reverse layup, canning mentally. I'm pretty close to that for an individual player but for the a 25ft. jump shot, or feeding John goal right now, and I'm working entire team as well, and this year,
Shumate with a behind-the-back­Brokaw feels they have it.
hard at it." 
pass, his on-the-court moves are 

magical indeed. He's been working hard for three "The attitude is a lot more years now at Notre Dame, and it's positive this year among the
LaSalle coach Paul Westhead put paying off. Currently the 6-3, 175

it a little differently, "He makes coaches, fans and the players. We 
pound guard is averaging 17.3 ppg have a lot more confidenceunusual shots that rip youup. 
and shooting a torrid 58 per cent especially in trying to help theBizarre, unusual plays." 
Gary likes the name "Mr. from the floor. freshmen. I'm not saying that it Magic" because, as he puts it, wasn't close last year, because it
"There are a lot of differences 
"the name pertains to the things I between this year and last year," was, but maybe it's just because do on the basketball court, and we're winning. Being 21-1 does
said Gary. "I'm concentrating
that's what I'm concerned with." help."
more on my shots, and now, with a That's nothing new for the soft­little more experience, I know A big reason for that 21-1 mark is i spoken junior from New Brun­what shots to take and what shots leadership, and Broke likes to . swick, New Jersey because he's not to take. Also, I feel that the assume the quiet role.
been playing the game nearly all weight program I was on during

his life. the summer has made a big dif­"I let Dwight( Clay) do all the "I started to play when I was shouting and organizing, but I've
ference. I worked more on mytour," •Brokaw recalls, "I used to arms and wrists which I felt were a tried to take on more of a 
just sit inside and watch the older ieadership role this year by
little weak last year, and I think 
guys play . But one day I went out keeping the team composed when
it's paid off." 
and started playing with them. we have to come up with the big I've been playing ever since." "There's also not as much play, and by trying to hit the key "I think that playing against pressure on me to score as there shot leading us to spurt time." 
older competition when I was little was last year," he added," just 
"Spurt time" is the foundation
really helped me a lot." Gary because we have more scorers this 
upon which Digger Phelps bases
added. "I'd play against older year. When that pressure is off, it 
his coaching philosophy. 
guys in the neighborhood, and I'd makes it easier to play." play with my father and my older Whether it's easy or not, Brokaw "Everyone needs that ten point brother. We had a little court in has been baffling opposin~ coaches spurt to put the game away," the backyard and they helped me a and players with his vast repetoire added Brokaw. "Coach Phelps has Junior guard Gary Brokaw has been one of the main reasons for Notre lot." of moves all season long. More gotten it into our heads that that is Dame's current 21-1 record and number two national ranking. 
For Broke, and fortunately for recently, however, he seems to the way to play basketball, and a lot more than knowing how to
the Irish, Gary's basketball career have made. his magic show an that's the way we try to play." as hard on myself as it is ont the
coach a basketball team.
didn't end on that little backyard everyday occurence. Broke likes to credit Digger with freshmen. Experience off the
"He's an honest man both on and court in handling these things isoff the court, and he tells you what important too, and we've tried tohe believes. He treats you the way 
Women skiers capture Ohio Cup: 
give the freshmen all the help that you are and h(IW you represent we can in adjusting to the different yourself and the university. He's situations."

Bartz en's return keys men's showing 
helped me on the court, especially with my concentration and ability When Gary Brokaw speaks he isThe girls of the Notre Dame ski Michigan Governor's Cup race at Freshman Gordon Wilson, soph to use my quickness, but he's sure of himself, the same way he isteam, who have put on solid Thunder Mountain, Michigan and Joh Goss, juniors Mike Boland, helped me off the court too-he's sure of himself when he'sshowings all year, struck gold last 
in the Lacrosse Cup race at John Hellmuth and sophomore speeded my aging to maturity." streaking the length of the court toSaturday in Mansfield, Ohio. Lacrosse, Wisconsin. Mike Morgante all put in their drop in a fast break layup. This share for the big 1-2 Irish Because of this added maturity confidence invades his attitude as
Last weekend though, they finishes. and experience Gary feels it is a member of the number-twoNotre Dame sophomore Anne , caught fire after being sparked by easier to cope with the rigors of ranked Irish.
Hawkins took top honors with a the return of senior captain, Pete playing college basketball.
second place finish in the long Bartzen. Bartzen had been out of "My biggest thrill here has been slalom course at Snow Trails Ski action since Jan. 10 due to a This Saturday, the Irish will take A sociology major, he does not beating UCLA," allowed Broke.
Resort. Right behind was St. hairline ankle fracture. The cast on bigger and better challenges in have as difficult a time keeping up "I'd like to see a rematch withMary's soph, Janel Schliesman. came off just in time to enable him the Eastern Regional Cham­with his studies as do some of the them. If we meet them for a thirdThese finishes plus the efforts of to travel with the team and win pionships at Sugarloaf, 'Michigan, others. time and play up to our potentialND frosh Nora Grace, ND senior first prize. an event in which the Irish placed we can beat them. If we're at ourKristan Meyer, and ND senior third last year. 
"Luckily I'm in classes where peak, it makes no difference who
captain Coletta Miller, gave the Strong showings by junior Bill With the girls consistent and you don't have to be there we play. I think we're the best female Irish enough points to Potter, freshman Steve with Bartzen back again, the Irish everyday," he says. "This team in the country."
L'Heureux, senior Bob Hellmuth,
capture the Ohio Governor's Cup. codd take it all this time. After way I can do all the reading and Second-run heroics by Hawkins and junior Stan Ripcho, helped the ell, just about every teamhas been everything even when we're on the If so, and only the NCAA's will enabled the Irish to overcome the Irish cop second place in team doing well for Notre Dame this road. In sociology most of the tell, Gary Brokaw will be Mr. 
standings for the men's cup. The year. Magic" in a magic year.
strong challenge by Ohio State and work is done on your own so it's not
Irish lost by a scant five points toAkron University. 
Akron. 
The men's team had run into The Irish "B" team racers were tough going earlier this year in the in action last Saturday, too. 

ND fails to reach century mark 
The other relay team: Drew built up the Boilers' lead, giving
by Hal Munger 
Wallach, Meagher, Joe O'Connor them 8 points to each Irish 1. and Kane finished the 400-freestyl~ in 3:18.4. for first place. In the 50-But earning points for the Irish
It was a tough road trip for the 
yard freestyle Kane won in 22.3 were the 400 yard relay team andNotre Dame swim team. 
seconds while Bob Ebel captured Jim Kane. Kane proved why he's a Although three Notre Dame · the one meter diving competition. two-time ND MVP with victories in varsity swimming records were Domer Mark Foster took second the 50 and 100 yard freestyles, with 
set Tuesday night, the Broncos of place in the low board event and clockings of :22.2 in the shorter 
Western Michigan rode a 60-53 captain Ed Graham collected the sprint and :48.3 in the longer. tally to victory in Kalamazoo. second spot in the 2QO-yard in­Kane has a good chance of 
dividual medley. Joe O'Connor becoming the first Notre Dame ended number two in the 200-swimmer to make the NCAA's.
Three days earlier the Irish were 
freestyle and in the 500-freestyle.
demolished by the Purdue 
Ed Strack tied Purdue's John
Boilermakers at West Lafayette 
Stantack in the 200-yard butterfly,
86-37. 

Fischer, Jim Meagher, and Jim their mutual clocking being 2:04.2. 
Kane who rewrote the books with a
The tankers, whose record now 
time of 3:42.6. Thompson went on Purdue took the 200-yard
stands at 7-4, are still in pursuit of 
to set a record of his own later in breaststroke but senior Jim
Coach Dennis Stark's lOOth career 
the day with a 2:04..8 clocking for Fischer and junior Ray Carey
win, the same win that will insure 
the 200-yard backstroke and Bob came in second and third.
the poolsters of the best record 
' Ebel set the new mark of 270.35
since the squad was conceived in The tankmen have one last
points for three meter diving.
1958. chance this season to earn Coach Stark's looth win in Saturday's Starting off the record breaking ' In seven of the events lost at meet with Illinois State. The 
performances Tuesday versus 1 Purdue Saturday the Boiler­thought of reaching that 100th win Senior Bob Hellmuth is one of the mainstays of this year's Irish skiing WMU was the 400-medley relay makers captured the second spot may be all the incentive the tank­team. squad ·of Bob Thompson, Jim also. "It was these events which men need. 





