OD The Inside 

Darby's Place ••.page 4 Point-Counterpoint .••pages 6 & 7 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 28 Monday, October 7, 1974 
Proposed seminar gets mixed views 
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 
The proposed values seminar for seniors brought mixed reactions from students in an informal poll conducted by the Observer over the weekend. Students favoring the proposal generally said it was a good idea; those op­posing it disliked the idea of having an ad­ditional requirement; and some suggested that student values wouldn't be changed by the course. 
The seminar is one of several proposals contained in the report issued by the Com­mittee on the Course of Study. The seminar, if accepted, would be a required one-credit, one semester course for seniors. The course, which would be graded satisfactory­unsatisfactory, would be organized along college lines and directed by virtually all the faculty. It is possible that the course will be ready for the spring semester. 

Chnditional approval 
Dave Dempsey, a junior from Holy Cross, was one of several students who gave con­ditional approval to the proposal. He said, "I'd like to see it work for a year, to see what would happen. If they get the right people, it would be a really good course." 
Another student who gave guarded ap­proval was Dennis Dziemianowicz, a senior from Pangborn. "It might be a good idea, but I'd have to know more about it." 

Responses differ 
A more favorable response came from Max Chudy, a senior from Keenan: "It sounds all right. I might be interested in taking it." 
An unfavorable view was given by Steve Ledoux, a senior from Morrissey. "I really don't think it that necessary. We did have some impromptu talks about values in collegiate seminar. Most of the people I've talked to aren't that interested in it." 

Values consolidated 
Several differing opinions were given on the subject of values. Some students felt the seminar would be good as a consolidation of values, while others resented it, saying that itwould be a waste of time because student values wouldn't be changed. 
Dan Kopetzky, a senior from Keenan said, "It's not that bad of an idea. It might be a consolidation of Notre Dame values; a uniform exposure to all students." 

Cathy Uhl, a senior from Lyons said, "I think its an excellent idea because after we leave Notre Dame, it will be important for us to put into practice the moral values we learn here. A course like this would make us aware of those ideas which we should put into practice." 

Negative reactions 
The differing views were expressed by Steve Brehl, a junior from Morrissey and Betsy Jaeger, a junior from Breen-Phillips. 
Brehl said "I think seniors have already formulated a' strong enough opinion on values that it should not be necessary to waste their time on a course that can't be used towards graduation." 
Jaeger noted, "I'm opposed to it. It would be a waste of time. It's so general, I don't see how it could be dealt with in any worthwhile way. I don't think you can change anybody's values. If you force it on them, they will resent it. It's one more example of the University trying to make everybody the same." 

Extra requirement 
_Two students reacted unfavorably to the seminar, because it would be a required course. 
Ron Sedlacek, a senior from Dillon said, "I have enough requirements to fulfill next semester. I'd like to take three hours of what I want to take without another hour added on. I don't think they should shove it on us the last semester we're here. Maybe they could set it up for future senior classes. That would give students a better chance to plan their schedules." 
Ann Pytynia, a junior from Badin said, "I'm against it. It's just one more requirement. I want a little more freedom my senior year. It might be a waste of time." 

SBA proposes due process lor accused students 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 

Due process for students in­volved in disciplinary proceedings is the proposal of the Student Bar Association, announced Chauncey Veatch, president of the association. 
"When any student is accused of a disciplinary activity he will normally see the Dean. Instead of having an under-graduate counsel, we propose that the student use the law student," said Veatch. 
Law student better qualiified 

Chauncey Veatch : Instead of having an undergraduate counsel,
He added that he did not have 
we propose that the student use the 
any complaints against the un­
law student. (Photo by Andy
dergraduate counsel, but that the 
Waterhouse)
law student has more confidence and is better informed, thus John Mazza, one of three making him better qualified in developers of the proposal, defending the student. He ex­presented the proposal to the Hall plained that accusations are so President's Council meeting last often hearsay and the witnesses Monday night after it was who make the accusations are not unanimously accepted by the HPC sought out and cross-examined. and will now be presented to the Veatch commented that SLC for approval. casualness is a problem because the students are not aware of their 
\Yi-itten state:tmnt
rights. 
The proposal provides that the 
1.\bre flexibility Dean of Students give thestudenta 
written statement stating that he 
"We want more flexibility in the may use an attorney, the law hearing process in that the hearing student, before saying anything. is tailored to the particular in­
The proposal also states that the fraction," said Veatch. He added President of the Bar Associationthe Bar Association is at the appoint a representative to thedisposal of the student body and 
Judicial Board. According to eager to help. In special cases 
Veatch, he feels that this is 
where a lawyer cannot be af­flexible, meaning that the Student 
forded, the law students will Body President may elect the 
handle the case with no charge . representative if he wishes to. 
Off campus students may qualify for food stamps 
By Brian lVI. Uancy Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame students presently residing off-campus may be eligible for food stamps according to Arthur Kopec, director of the food stamp program for St. Joseph County. 
Students of limited means and income can apply to the food stamp division in South Bend any time during the week. In order to be eligible for the financial help a household of students must possess assets not exceeding $1500. In addition, the income of the students must not exceed the monthly limit set by the federal government for the given number 
of persons in the household. 
Anyone applying for the food stamps must be able to prove their need f9r the financial assistance. 
Once an application has been filed with the food stamp agency, the parents of the student are con­tacted by the agency and asked to verify their child's need. If the notarized parental statement justifies the student's need for the funds then the household is eligible for the stamps. Students are warned however, that falsely reporting funds could result in prosecution for fraud by local authorities. 
This program is only open to students living off-campus. Students residing in dormitories, boarding houses and hotels are ineligible. 
Figures regarding the number of Notre Dame students presently receiving food stamps were not available, but the outlook for students applying this year ap­peared very dim. "Federal money is very tight this year," stated 
Father Thomas Tallarida, director of off-campus housing. He further commented, "With the money so tight, students are going to have to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that they need the money this year." 


the observer Monday, October 7, 1974 
warld briefs 
NEW YORK <UPI) -Former White House Chief of Staff Alexander Haig approached President Ford nine days before the Nixon presidency ended about a possible pardon for the former president, Newsweek magazine reported Sunday. 
Newsweek said Ford will testify about his discussion with Haig when he appears personally before a House judiciary sub­
committee: 
According to Newsweek, Haig approached Ford Aug. 1 about a possible pardon for the former President Richard Nixon. Newsweek said Ford gave a negative answer the following day to 
Nixon Counsel James St. Clair. St. Clair then told Ford that information would soon be released that would force President Nixon to resign, Newsweek said. 
JERUSALEM <UPI) -Shneor Zalman Shazar, Russian-born scholar who served two terms as President of Israel, died Saturday at Hadassah Hospital. He would have been 85 Sunday. 
A spokesman at Hadassah hospital said Shazar's death was caused by "a kidney insufficiency, which precipitated heart and respiratory failure." Shazar had entered the hospital one week ago, suffering from a variety of illnesses. 
ASHEVILLE, N.C. <UPI) -Buncombe County authorities early Sunday arrested a Bryson City man sought in the shooting deaths of two veteran highway patrol officers whose bodies were found in a locked room of the courthouse basement. 
Edward Collins Davis, 55, was spotted walking aimlessly about the main square in downtown Asheville Sunday morning by a deputy Sgt. W.E. McCurry, Jr. said Davis was unarmed and offered no resistance. 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. <UPI) -Former Gov. Luther Hartwell Hodges, Sr., who served as Secretary of Commerce under Presidents Kennnedy and Johnson, died of an apparent heart at­tack Sunday. He was 76. Hodges was stricken while walking in the yard of his Chapel Hill home. He was taken to North Carolina Memorial Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 9:35a.m. 

an c:ampus taday 
5 pm --vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
7pm --meeting, flying Irish club, flanner penthouse. 
7pm --meeting, psychology society, hagger hall room 124. 
7pm --movie, "cause", students working with elderly,lib. aud.. 
B pm --lecture, "Intra-party conflict In communist-ruled coun­tries", prof. juergen domes, lib. aud. lounge. 
12 mldnlte-4:30 am --coffee-house, darby's place, Iafortune basement. 
daily 

12 noon-5pm --art exhibit, eugene atget travelling photography show, moreau main gallery. 
12 noon-9 pm --art exhibit, watercolors, gertrude harbart, photo gallery. 
10 am-5 pm --photo exhibit, rustle american photographs, minor white, nd art gallery. 
SMC slates program concerning assertive behavior in women 
When :1 person is highly unfair, 
do you call it to his or her at­
tention? Do you ever "fly off the 
handle" and say things you later 
regret? Can you express an un­
popular opinion assertively in the 
face of majority opposition? 
These questions and others will 
be examined Tuesday, October 8, 
in a presentation "Toward the 
Development· of Assertive 
Women," at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll 
Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
Conducted by Dr. Suzanne 
Areson, director of counseling at 
Saint Mary's , Tuesday's program 
will compare and contrast the 
effectiveness of non-assertive, 
aggressive, and assertive 
behaviors. 
"All of us have had times when 
we wished we had stood up for our 
legitimate rights in a way that did 
5,000 flies watch 
as record broken in cow-chip toss 
ODESSA, TEX. <UPil -Dave 
Compton's state record heave in 
the cow-chip throwing contest 
highlighted Texas' largest 
bicentennial celebration of the 
year this weekend. 
Compton, 23, wound up and chunked his chip 214 feet, 4 inches but it was still short of the world record set last year by Carl Engel, also of Odessa. 
More than 5,000 persons attended 
Saturday's bash which also 
featured chili cooking, musket 
loading demonstrations and other 
events set in a colonial at­
mosphere. 
The event was one of 47 bicen­
tennial celebrations being held 
across the state this year. 
The Observer is publiShed dally 
during the college semester except 
vacations by the students ol the 
University of Notre Dame Md St. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased tor $9 per 
semester ($16 per year) trom The 
Observer &lx' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

not violate the rights of others," 
stated Dr. Areson. 
"Tuesday's presentation will not only stress the importance of women being properly assertive in their interactions, but will also help men understand the position of women, especially in business," she added. 
Through film, a variety of in­terpersonal situations which call for an assertive response will be _presented-during Tuesday's program. A panel of students will react to the film segments. 
Dr. Areson joined Saint Mary's College in July 1973. She has conducted various assertiveness training sessions at the College, and is a consultant to the Women's Carrer Center in South Bend. 
She received her Ph.D. in education as well as her master's degree in counseling and guidance from the University of Michigan. She holds a bachelor of science degree in psychology from .. Western Michigan University. 
"Toward the Development of Assertive Women" is part of the continuing series, "Contemporary 
Issues  in  Business  and  
Economics,"  sponsored  by  the  
department  of  business  ad­ 
ministration  and  economics  at  

Saint Mary's College. For add­tiona! information, contact the chairman of the department Dr. 
~--­

Cultural Arts Commission presents 


Shakespeare on Film 
HAMLET 
starring Nicol Williamson directed by Tony Richardson 
Monday Night, October 7th at 8 and 10 pm Engineering Auditorium 
I 

Admission only 25¢ 
Monday, October 7, 1974 the observer 
3 

Campaigning for Birch 
Van Buren. Mrs. Bayh talk politics at ND 
by Ellen Syburg Staff Reporter 

The re-election campaign of Indiana Senator Birch Bayh moved to the Notre Dame campus Friday morning with the ap­pearance of the senator's wife, Marvella Bayh and advice columnist Abigail Van Buren. The two women spoke on many issues during the informal conversation in Washington Hall with a small group of students and members of the press. 
Defending her husband's spending record which has come under fire from his republican opponent, Richard Lugar, Mrs. Bayh pointed out that along with the Democratic Congress "Birch helped cut 22 billion dollars from Nixon's budgets and voted a budget limit 9 billion dollars lower than President Ford's." Noting that the senator voted for a 5 billion dollar cut in defense and a 1 billion dollar cut in welfare she voiced hope "that the Indiana voters won't be taken in by slogans but will examine the record." 
Explaining that the senator is in favor of re-ordering national spending priorities Mrs. Bayh said, "We must question it when our government spends 24 billion dollars in 12-•h years to put a man on the moon but has spent only 4 billion since 1936 to find a cure for cancer which strikes 1 in every 4 Americans." 
Bayh has tried to instrumant a move to roll back petroleum prices of the big oil companies she added. He favors this rather than a federal gasoline tax because "in this wave of inflation while profits soar the average citizen is insulted by what he has to pay for gasoline and food." 
Miss Van Buren volunteered to campaign for Bayh because "we need intelligent, honest representation in the Senate". She listed several issues which she feels Bayh has been strong on : young people--"He has worked long and hard to promote juvenile justice and on ways to eliminate juvenile deliauency".; ERA-­"Bayh is a long-timesupporter of it."; gun control-"He doesn't want to confiscate all guns but favors the elimination of the 'Saturday night specials' which are involved in so many homicides". ; drug abuse-"Senator Bayh wants to come down hard on pushers and has been successful in legislaitng to reduce the number of am­phetamines manufactured". 
Van Buren stated that Bayh's stand on abortion is more con­servative than hers "perhaps becl:!use I am a woman." Mrs. 
Bayh then explained that her husband is against abortion except to save the life of the woman and in cases of rape. The senator is chairman of the Senate sub­committee which is now con­sidering an anti-abortion am­mendment. "Because of his responsibility to the democratic process and his belief that the issue is so complex Birch is determined that both sides will be fully heard before the committee makes nay dicision," Mrs. Bayh added. 
Mrs. Bayh discussed her suc­cessful surgery for breast cancer. "I hope that my case and that of Betty Ford's will encourage women to take advantage of the self-examination procedure. We have the knowledge to save 12 out of 15 women who will develop breast cancer but it must be caught early and either fear or ignorance prevents this." She 

In Los Angeles, Milcm 
Weekend bombings hit ITTholdings 
LOS ANGELES <UPI)-A caller claiming to represent a group known as the "New World Liberation Front" claimed responsibility for a bombing which ripped apart a restroom in a plush hotel, police said ~unday. 
The Saturday mght blast was almost a duplicate of a bombing in a San Francisco hotel h~st week, in which the bombers cla1med to be out to punish the International Telephone and Telegraph Corp. whic~ owns bo!h hotels. 
Pollee exammed the rubble off manager of.thdethhote · 
1 1 11
So on sa1 e rna e ca er
1 identified himself as a member of IIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRI...... the "New World Liberation Front" Saturday ~ight's blast at the Sheraton Airport I~n near ~e Los An~eles Inter~ah~nal A!rpor.t, tr~mg to deter~me Its relaS~onship with an explosi?n at the er~ton Palace Hote~ ~ ~ Francisco ~~d~esd.ay ~~ t. bl ~re were no InJUries 10 eJ er as ·. . 
Los ~ngeles P~hce ~~ld Saturdf~ s ~l~t, wh~h ~e:~:~ severr un. r ru: hat l g
schoo reumon a e 0 e • llwas
1

preceded by a te ephone ca. to 
34•

Robert Solon, the mght
1 
Co-Ex Ticket Schedule Oct. 

Oct. 7--Grace, Lyons 
a.. Keenan, Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips 9 .. Fianner, Walsh, St. Joe's 10·-DIIIon, Farley, St. Ed's 11--Stanford, Howard, Sorln, Badin 13--Morrlssey, Pangborn, Holy Cross 15Aiumnl, Zahm, Fisher 16·-Grace, Lyons 17--Keenan, Cavanaugh, B-P 18--Fianner, Walsh, St. Joe's 20·-Dillon, Farley, St. Ed's 
October 12 & 19: no tickets, SMC Sat. steak night. October 14: no tickets, special night. 
IIHIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIUIIIIIHIIIIIUIIIIIIHIIIII 

and said a bomb would go off at the . mi·nutes
h t 11
o e m seven · 
"But it exploded at 10:17 p.m." 
. ... . . ' 

Solon sa1d, Justfive mmut~ after he called. I began telhn~ the people at the desk and those 10 the lobby to leave and st~nd outside." 
Solon and a secunty guead or­dered 300 to 400 people to leave a nearby ban9uet room. where they were ~ttendmg a reumon w~en the thuddmg blast went off 10 the 
women's restroom. The force of
the ex losion blew a hole throughh P kn k d tile off 
11

t e re~t~oom wa • oc e t~e cellmg and ruptured a water pipe
A~thorities, who did not im­
mediately identify the type of
explosive ~sed, .did not comment 
on the relationship between the two bo~.b!ngs against ITT-owned fac1hhes. In the San Francisco. blas.t, ~ 
caller, also a man Idenbfymg himself as a member of the "New 
I the Monday niW!t special 1! 
t 
It 12" pizza-$1.50 t 25 ~ DRAFT I Eat, drink, and be entertained by live music nightly <except Tuesday) AT
1 
t V\11-tiTE HOUSE INN •
1 .~o.w.::::!. ' 1.1!!~!.
•f 2 8 3 9 N 5th 
t : 
I ! 
t i 
I * 
: 
1
t 
: 

t 
: 


no t : 
~~3J' t: 

f Just s mi. north of the state line. 683-9842 Take u.s. 31 north to Niles, then north on highways 3 miles.
t . 
·----------------­
World Liberation Front," claimed responsibility for a total of four bombings directed against ITT. That bomb also went off in a woman's restroom. 
In a written communication left at a San Francisco gas station, the group accused ITT of creating "a reign of terror" in Chile by con­
spiring  to  overthrow  Salvador  
Allende  the  late  Chilean  
Preside~t.  

The two-page statement demanded tht ITT "implement the release of all political prisoners" 
. Ch'l d th ed furth 
m . 1 e. an rea.ten . er action d~rec~ed agamst the giant corporation If the demands were 
not met. 
ITT's Milan Warehouse Bombed 
MILAN, Italy <UPI) -A fire set by four masked gunmen early Sunday caused an es­timated $12.8 million damages to a warehouse belonging to a subsidiary of International Telephone and Telegraph, po­lice said. 
A pamphlet delivered later to h 
t e Milan bureau of the Italian news agency ANSA said the fire was a Communist reprisal for ITT's role in the overthrow 
of the All d g t · 
en e overnmen m 
************************************
* N 0 T R E 0 A M E & 5 T M A R y 1 5 :
* • * 
: 50 C 1 A L C 0 M M ISS 10 N S *
* *
* p R E 5 E N T 0 C T O B E R f E S T 1 7 4 * 
]f-lf­
* * 
~----PRESENTI-NG:--~ iJOHN SEBASTIANi 

I : ' :: 
t :
t * 

Chile. 
Police said the gunmen disarmed a night watchman at the warehouse of Face-Stand­ard Telephone Co. <Fizzonas­co), poured gasoline inside the building and set fire to it. 
The fire caused an estimated $12.8 million damage to the plant and equipment, including telephone exchange systemsmanufactured there, police said. 
The attack was the latest in a series against ITT subsidiaries · th M'l p · 
1!1 e 1 an ar~a. rev1ous h~es and bombmgs caused mmor damage.. 
The hand-prmted pamphlet

I ft · th ANSA 'lbo 'd
881

e m. e mai x
the fire was set because 
"militant Italians have not forgotten murdered comrades in Chile " 
Accu~ing ITT of attacks against the working class on a worldwide scale it said "one responds with a' new f~rm of struggle -the gun-and new forms of organization."
" .

The F1zzonasco warehouse was burned because we Com­munists also must experiment with new technology toward 
I b' t· " 't 'd

a ways new o Jec 1ves, 1 881 . 
i 
:
!
: 
:
: 

THURSDAY OCTOBER 17 * 
8 00 ~ 
: p.m. IN COf\JCERT ~ 
STEPAN CENTER ; 
TICKETS: $3.00. ON SALE MONDAY OCT~ : 
7 AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET Jt 
OFFICE & TilE DINING HALlS 
i 
~ 

Jt ******************************It**H 
pointed out that although breast 
cancer is the number one cause of 
death in women age 40-45 that the 
government spends only $2.52 per 
person per year on cancer 
research as opposed to $18 per 
person per year on foreign aid". 
Both Mrs. Bayh and van Buren encouraged the audience not to become disillusioned because of Watergate. "It hurt all of us in public life but the vast majority of politicians are very dedicated people", Mrs. Bayh said. She added that "no one has the right to complain until they have gone to the polls and voted." 
Pointing out that in Indiana's spring primary only 26 of the eligible voters went to the polls she asked, "How is democracy sup­posed to work when people fail to exercise this basic right?" 
When asked about the strain of being a politician's wife, Mrs. Bayh acknowledged that "public life does add some strain to a marriage. People seem to think that we have it easy: a maid and chauffeur and clothes that appear automaticlaly in our closets. That, of course, is ridiculous". Referring to a recent Time magazine article on political marriages she added, "Notice that we weren't mentioned. We have a very happy marriage but I'm glad the story is being told. It is dif­ficult and people should be aware of it". 
Mrs. Bayh and Abigail Van Buren's appearance was spon­sored by the Cultural Arts Com­mission and the Education Commission of South Bend. 


Mony Present razy Record 
DRINK 
Mxieratim: The smallest bottle 
~ lkpr sold are 24 minim bottles 
~ Scotch \Wlisky marketed by tiM:! 
amtrae Slglly 0>. ~ SaXland 
They cmtain 1-m ~ an «UlCe!! 
DIUNK UP!! 
source: Gulness' Book of World Records 

John Counsefl, Class of '64 
e 
pnme· 
Life insurance tailored to fit the unique needs of students and young professionals. 
For further information call: 2 3 3-3 1 0 4 IT'S GOOD TO HAVE 
M0NY 
IN YOUR FUTURE 
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York 



\ 
Darby's opens for ND night owls
'-, 
' 
midnight tonight. or enjoy the company of others. It the need tor a place where people
By Mauri Miller be a service to the Notre Dame 
Staff Reporter Darby's Place, or Chez Darby as will be open Monday thru Thur­can come, when the world around community," says Griffin. "I Frenchmen would say, is the sday nights from midnight until means nothing. The "clean well­
don't clearly know the need for The posters in the halls announce brainchild of Fr. Robert Griffin, 4:30a.m. lighted place" in Hemingway's such a plan, but I hope the students it as a "clean well-lighted place," University Chaplain, and will story is a life-saver, as an old man will utilize it."
Idea From Hemingway
and Fr. Griffin says "it's a place serve the Notre Dame community who comes had attempted suicide "It is something that for a longfor the night person to go." In both as a place "for the student who is The idea actually came from nights earlier. time I thought I'd like to do, he cases it's Darby's Place, opening out late for one reason or another" Ernest Hemingway's "A Clean Griffin's "clean well-lighted 
says. "Darby's Place is not more in the basement of La Fortune at to go and drink coffee , think alone, Well-Lighted Place," describing place" is not intended to be the life­than anything experimental. A saver, of sorts, but a place where couple of years ago I publicly in­the student who needs some place dicated that my room at Keenan to go can find company or silence. 
could serve as a clean well-lighted 
American Catholic history 
"Having to live in a hall dor­place, but a person's room is not mitory," says Griffin, "there are a satisfactory. This place is where lot of people around at night, some
' people can come and sit quietly by 
of them searching for a place to go
discussed at conference
r themselves and no one will argue
and some of them having with them." 
Although the Catholic Worker have one fatal flaw in common­Bend sketched the development of something on their mind they want "It is a larger place and has movement, founded by Dorothy they all seek to change only the the pacifist traditon in American to talk about. Hemingway speaks more of a privateness, even beingDay. generally is regarded as the means by which men can continue Catholicism. She noted that this of a place where people can come. 
a public place," first and foremost expression of to acquire as much as they are tradition has been dominated by For these people who fear the There will be no music broughtAmerican Catholic leftist thought, able." the Catholic Worker and that until night, he suggested a clean well­in the coffee house, as Hemingwayit didn't develop from the Vietnam it was the only Catholic lighted place." 
says should be so, but, as GriffinAmerican Left nor from liberal Novitsky claimed that Maurin group to actively oppose war. "The place would be different says, "we may bring in a tran­Catholicism, but it is a product of condemns capitalism because it from the girly joints", he added, sistor radio, or if someone comes the European Right. perverts the meaning of man, "a place where you can sit and
For Dorothy Day, war was the in with a flute he can play lonely 
viewing him only as a consumer think."
most extreme form of opposition to tunes, or even merry ones."
rather than a person. Also, he said "Darby's Place is for the student 
This is one of the conclusions love, and she maintained that to be 
reached by historians taking a Maurin asserts that the only consistent with the Catholic who is out late for one reason or Quality. Not Quantity, Stressed 
second look at American Catholic meaningful social reconstruction Worker ideal it was necessary to another, for the student who can't On whether the coffee pot will be history during a conference Oc­is one which reflects the Christian embrace pacifism and non­sleep or wants to take a break from widely used, Griffin says it reallytober 4 and 5 at the University of understanding of the nature and violence in wartime, the Indiana his studies --a place where you can doesn't matter whether the volume Notre Dame. destiny of man, and Maurin University professor said. find other night-minded people and of people on a certain night is higb 
believes the Church should lead the drink coffee and get cheered up or 
The house is not a commercialIn a session on the Catholic Left, way in transforming society rather cheer up others." he said.
In addition to the Catholic Left business where quantity is aDr. Anthony Novitsky of than trying to superficially heal other conference topics included necessary component. What
the wounds caused by the in­Although it is actually Darby's
D'Youville College, Buffalo, New 
"Catholics and New Ethnic 
<O'Gill) Place, it will be operated matters more, he says, is theYork, traced the influences on the justices of capitalism. 
Studies," "The Hierarchy: A 
by Griffin, with students helping quality. That people learn to useCatholic Worker movement's chief Search for Identity," "American whith the service. "Of course it's the house for their benefit. "If onetheoretician, Peter Maurin. Ac­Novitsky said that Maurin's 
Catholic Theology," and "New 
Darby's Place," says Fr. Griffin, or two persons come there duringcording to Novitsky, Maurin, like views weren't uniaue but also were 
European rightists, reacted to the used by the French Social Approaches in American Catholic "but I will run it and I hope to be the night, it would be worthwhile," 
History."

ideas of the Enlightment which Catholics, the English there every night." he says. 
But even without music and only became the basis of American Distributists, and other elements More than 20 historians from To Serve ND Community a few people straggling in on someeconomics, politics and society. of the European Right. throughout the country discussed nights, the atmosphere will remain
the reinterpretation of American 
What is the need for a night spot the same night after night, with a"In Maurin's view," Novitsky Also during the session on the Catholic History at the meeting on the campus, anyway? coffee house open from midnight tosaid, "all current social ideologies Catholic Left, Dr. Patricia McNeal sponsored by Notre Dame's 4:30 "for the people of Notre<other than the Catholic Worker) of Indiana University at South Department of History. 
"I hope for Darby's Place to Dame." 

:; 
-
lr 
·I 
t. 
.. 

Monday, October 7. ,974 the observer 
5 

a boarding house and an angel 
by Iaureen goers 
.-­

When the ND-SMC Theatre opened its Three ot the children are now living the veyed because her voice has been at ninth season with Ketti Frings' adaptation results of their success or failure in fleeing, screaming level all along. of Thomas Wolfe's Look Homeward, Angel leaving Eugene, the youngest, to struggle Michael Manier, as Eugene Gant, does an . 
. 

on Friday night, October 4, the audience for his freedom. admirable job in portraying a typical 
. 

was treated to a tight, unified production Kirk Packo and Kathleen Rink as Mr. and seventeen year old boy. Unfortunately, 
..._

containing acting and technical expertise Mrs. Gant give convincing performances, Eugene must convey much more depth and that generally overshadowed a few with Packo winning the affection, applause the strugglings of arising maturity if he is to disappointing performances. and laughter of the audience, while Rink be at all credible. Played by Manier as 
Frings' dramatization of Wolfe's largely arouses fitting distaste and hostility primarily the shy, unsure and totally sub­autobiographical novel was first staged in towards the narrow. shrewd Mrs. Gant. If missive child, Eugene suddenly confronts New York in November, 1957. En­Packo's initial falls and speeches are a bit his mother without giving any sense of the thusiastically received by both critics and overdone. he more than makes up for it as emotional build-up and r· ;sonal growth audiences, it was awarded the Pulitzer he settles down into a confident rendering of leading up to this. Similarly, his interaction Prize for Drama and the Drama Critics' his role. His physical appearance could not with Laura lacks any development; the Award for the 1957-58 season. be improved upon, and the father-son result is a shocked audience when Act III 
relationship he maintains with Eugene rings opens with the two in bed. The character of 
Set in the town of Altamont, North a clear, true note. Eugene would also benefit from further Carolina in the fall of 1916, the play focuses Ms. Rink's excessive use of finger­development of his idolatry of his brother, on the owners of the Dixieland Boarding pointing and other stiff mannerisms, as well Ben, as well as of the loneliness he speaks House. A strange assortment of boarders as her maintenance of one voice level of, but never really conveys. form the background for the Gant family: throughout the play becomes obnoxious-but the manipulative, greedy mother managing then, this is perhaps the appropriate Robin Salem, as Laura James, also fails Dixieland, the bohemian-spirited father, reaction to Mrs. Gant. One drawback to Ms. to depict the development of any sort of flailing and fumbling through life, and the Rink's vocal interpretation can be seen in affection for Eugene. She is stiff and proper four children, sharing a common need to Act II, when moments of intense emotion until the moment she is in bed with him, and Kirk Packo, Michael Manier, and Robin escape their mother's stiflin~ supervision. are often lost. Increased anger is not con-at those times when on stage primarily to Salem (Photo by Patrick J. Gibbs) 
support and comfort Eugene (II,ii) she appears much more bored than concerned. shop is quite strikmg. Faith Adam's costuming is most imaginative and ap­
Convincing performances were given by a propriate; unfortunately, the make-up is not number of supporting actors, most notably on a par with the costumes. The lighting is Sara Paulis as the warm-hearted "Fatty" always capable, and often becomes ex­Pert; Dan Daily as the harsh realist, Dr. ceptional, as in Ben's bedroom scene. A Maguire; Dan Deziel as Mrs. Gant's brother and co-conspirator, Will Pentland; Janet turning down of the lights and a greater Wilson as the sexy, teasing Miss Brovm; and focus on the action when it occurs in the Richard Remley as Mr. Gant's drunken bedrooms might, however, be helpful. crony, Tarkington. Katherine Burke as a Except for Jay Parks' ukelele-accompanied whorehouse madam was a bright, enjoyable song, the music was only a distraction and highlight. often an impediment to hearing the actors. 
Similarly, in the epilogue, the audience 
Bill McGlinn's portrayal of Ben, the elder must struggle to hear Ben, who could Gant son, can only be called masterful. perhaps benefit from a microphone. McGlinn's comfortableness with the role allows every bit of the character's quiet Except for seeming over-direction of authority and silent anguish to come Eugene's actions, Charles Ballinger has through with a touching impact. Ben's in­succeeded in guiding the majority of his cessant cigarette smoking and steadily actors into capable performances. It is worsening cough, easily overdone and made these performances, together with the affected, are here skillfully put to the best mer:-10rable portrayal of Ben, the technical use. In the midst of several very competent successes and the over-all unity which make performances, McGlinn stands out as the pla:r both interesting and enjovable.conveying a realism and effectiveness that no else seems to attain. 
Look Homeward, Angel will run-again this 
The technical side of the production is a weekend, October 10, 11, and 12 at 8:00p.m. strong contribution to its impact and unity. in St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. The Boarding House set is both interesting General Admission is $2.00; students, and effective, and the contrasting marble faculty, and staff will be admitted for $1.50. 
wearisome travel and rome 
by jack d'aurora 
Fifty-five of us decided to forgo our home and light washing at that time. Showers They're a wonderful people -warm, un­F'rench, Japanese or even a Bronx accent, campuses this year. in search of what we were for the mornings only, and even then derstanding, explosive, persistent (the men all belonging to people who hope to one dayhoped to be more fulfilling endeavors in the odds against getting hot water were five anyway, as the girls found) and fun to be master Italian, just as we do. Much to out Rome. Even this early our expectations to one. Anyway, we got a soft bed. with.They always seem to have plenty of own frustrati<'n though, that goal alwayshave been met, for everyday has brought Well, what Perugia lacked in water, the time for some student who painstakingly is seems years of Italian classes away.something new and, almost· .always, a families we stayed with made up for with trying to communicate in Italian and when Now that our Perugia experience is over, memorable event, the last three weeks cuisine. Bread, pasta, fruits, chicken and explaining to them how difficult learning we find ourselves in Rome, our home for the taking us from wearisome travel to a better morewere always plentiful. In fact it took a this second language is, they assure you it's next eight months. Being here for only one understanding of international life. little getting used to the meals for most of worth the ardor, because Italian is such a week, it is difficult to convey anything
We knew this year owuld be a different us. Many a student can remember filling beautiful language. general enough to cover this this great city. one for us if only for the travel predicaments up on pasta during that first lunch in One thing for sure, though, is that we have enountered our first time together. Our Perugia, only to feel faint at the sight of the We attended the University for much to learn and understand, for soon the midnight charter flight from J.F.K. Sept. 2 main course being served afterwards. Forreigners in Perugia for two weeks of charm of newness will wear off and we will was delayed eleven hours. We had to fight intensive Italian work. It turned out to be a reaiize that we are confronted, for the our way through a crowded Paris train After our settling down, time finally ~ very international experience for a walk curation of our stay, with a country verystation, each of us weighted down with an allowed for meetin~ with the Italians. down the hall would brin5! sounds of Greek, much unlike the U.S. in many ways. enormous amount of baggage. Then to save time, we had to load it overhead through the 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau
train windows while our frantic co-<>rdinator 

was beseeching us to keep calm.  
After the loading ordeal was over, al, fifty-five of us had to spend the next fifteen hours in one car, trying to sleep in the few spaces not already taken up by our luggage. Fortunately, Rome didn't come too soon, and with it, a three hour bus ride to Perugia, where we would spend our next two weeks.  ~~~~ r11 ~Hf:off::s 50R.R.Y, PAVC. ON MY BACKf BUT PR.ESIPENT FOR A 570/?Yl• FOR.P HAD A OIDN'T HE{)() o M7RMAL, /JI(RI(­ANYTHJN6 ROT­; IN6 U/EEKENO. TeN AT AU?/ \ /  ~~\) H&AVENS_ NO.I AU. SIITI/RPAV­MR. FORP II/AS 57RAI6Hl; OPEN ANPPECENT. '\  k/tt.t,HOW ABOIJT SI/Nt:JAY'? I  (/'S'~ 51/NPA~ HG WAS PGVOI/T. Al7HOI/6H CWA"t LATER fJ'V IN THe fi?/PAY,111£1 eYENIN6, HE k/A5 IIIHIIT5 tHe C()(JIM6£0{}S ANP Rff.ill !if'tRY aJMPA5510NATe.. ON FK/PAYl \ I  ~Y, PAVe. ON FRIM'I, TH& PRES/PENT WAS SCL.F-EiffAON6. "  PAMNl 0 0  
Despite what seemed confusion thewhole  
trip, we did arrive in Perugia, Sept. 5, two  
and  a  half days after  our initial take-<>ff  
time <not as bad as it sounds -we spent a  
night in Paris), asking only for a hot shower  
and  a  soft bed.  But  to  our  dismay,  we  
learned that Perugia shuts off all water in  
the afternoon due to  a  drought, and each  
house ha's only enough water for drinking  

' . 



Sex, d d
the Stu ent Bo y, and the SLC 
ProfessorThomas Werg .. Professor Werge is an Associate Profes~or in the Engli~h Department, former Director of the Commtttee for Academtc Progress, and a member of the Student Life Council rules com­mittee. 
Sex, like the body, is here to stay--at least until our dissolution. Equally constant is the tension between the desire for freedom, privacy, "doing as one likes," and such other values as communal order, a common good, moral absolutes. This tension becomes especially acute when an institution professing certain religious as well as intellectual Ideals claims the general prerogative of acting in loco parentis and the specific right to penalize its students for violating those norms--sexual or other--the institution establishes. 

As the SLC tries once again to formulate an acceptable rule on sexual behavior on campus, the question of whether the university has the right to act in loco parentis or to establish such rules seems to me pointless; it does, and it will. The idea of community does not preclude authority or hierarchy. The real question is the kind of rule we will have. My fear is that two insistent positions may dominate the debate. The first--that we have no rule at all and trust to the essential goodness of human nature and the metaphysical lust of undergraduates to form Meaningful Relationships until the entire world is Meaningfully Related--is touching but somewhat unreal. The second--that students who violate the rule be automatically suspended or expelled--is overly severe. 
This past spring, the SLC--rightly, I think--refused to embrace either proposal. By an 11·9 vote, the Council passed a rule that any student violating the university's regulation ran the risk of being asked, or told, to move off-campus. Admittedly, this compromise had its flaws. Its apparent assumption that off-campus students were Lotharios living in Sodom rather than South Bend was in questionable taste. But the proposal was, after all, a compromise. Several who voted against it may have thought it too harsh; others may have thought it too lenient. Given the slim margin by which it passed, Father Hesburgh's veto was justified. 
If politics is the art of the possible, however, rather than one group's imposition of its earnest wishes on other groups it considers perverse and unenlightened, some similar compromise is what the SLC will have to work out. I do not think the votes are there--nor should be there--for a policy of expulsion or for a lack of any policy. In more skeptical and speculative moments, I have thought of several possible rules. Why not require, for example, that all Notre Dame students be married to each other as they register? I am sure that Mr. Sullivan. the Registrar, would be willing to work out the logistics of such a process, though I have not yet spoken with him about it. Since men would outnumber women, some males would remain unwed. When they were not studying, these un­domesticated males could swim, play a lot of basketball, and write, depending on their political leanings, appropriately liberated editorials for the Observer or solemn admonishments for the Notre Dame Report. They could also babysit for the children of their married fellow students whose numbers would be legion. 
In light of the slim chances for passage of such a resolution, I hope we are able to formulate and agree on some moderate proposal acceptable to administrators, faculty, and students. It should be inspired nelgher by the adolescent inanity of Hugh Hefner nor the asceticism of the Desert Fathers. To hope that everyone will be happy with It would be fatuous; to acknowledge that life here or anywhere else is filled with compromise, disap­pointment, chagrin, and complexity would be more realistic and
,( 
to the point. 

~ 
Sanity may prevail. The Right may admit that the hails of Notre Dame, finally, do not really resemble the Babylon of the Old Testament or the Carthage of St. Augustine. The Left may admit that human nature--yes, even In American undergraduates--Is
~ 
I 
I imperfect, and that love of whatever sort does not in fact conquer all. If so, a compromise ail can live with, if not become ecstatic over, may emerge. But if the advocates of the fantasy of "total
( 
freedom," whatever that might be, or the equally unreal dream of
I 
"total order," are adamant, the prospects for moderation will
( 
again be bleak. If so, the results of our deliberations will prove as
( 
futile this time as they did a few short months ago. 
The Sexual 


Cf. du lac, Page 27, Rule 8 
Brother Just Pac:zesny 
Listen, Tom Drape, you asked me to comment on the human sexuality bit written in our rules. Of all the topics to choose from, you had to pick the toughest to test me. 
Let me begin. Life Is complicated enough without multiplying laws. If there is a law existing, then it follows that another is not necessary to explain the original. 
In this day and age, It would be easy for me to put the responsibility on your young shoulders, more so than my parents did to me, and avoid transmitting experiences from one generation to another. To insist that you learn ail the answers "on the go" pragmatically, by experimentation , to pretend that in a few years you could discover the accumulated experience of man is pure hypocrisy and delusion. None of us can mature in human society without guidance. For one generation to rationalize our inconsistencies, cowardice and lack of principles, with the excuse that It frees you from dependency does not help you to grow. 
That Is why we have a " ... deep concern for the growth and moral development of each member of the University." And why we are ... "Challenging each other to develop attitudes towards human sexuality that are authentically Christian." 
By your baptism, you have a Chrlstlan commitment, which must be an adult act of self-giving. Therefore, in your growth as a Christian you should not retain the naive expectation of instant reward. In the fourth chapter of the Gospel of St. Luke we see Jesus returning to Nazareth and entering the Synagogue and opening a book where it reads, "The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to preach good news t(\the poor. He has sent me to proclaim releaselto the captives and recovering the sight to1he blind, to set at liberty tho\4! who are oppressed, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord." Later the scripture goes on to tell us that Jesus' neighbors 1n Nazareth then tried to kill him. 
The life of a Christian is not easy. Instant success is not a must. Few apostles reaped where they have sown. With Christ, ever compassionated, filled with empathy, never 
~--· _"""..... "!":!"........".~~~ 
JoinedTh 
Brother Just Paczesny is Vice President for Student Affairs, a member of the Student Life Council, and former Rector of Alumni Hall. 
discouraged, always hopeful. I pray that I be not a stumbling block to your Christian maturity by multiplying rules. 
Our code of life Is found in the Decalogue and Beatitudes and our morality Is prac­ticed under these precepts. We answer to God for our actions, and to our fellow human beings as well, because we show our love for God by our concern for our neighbor. 
Occasionally, we need a push and a shove to keep us alert to our commitments. I suppose we make additional rules for en­couragement. It's very much like no parking signs In the circle at the Main Gate: one or two could do the job, but do you know that there are sixteen -count them -sixteen no parking signs in the circle. Makes you wonder, doesn't it? 
\ 
......................~~--------~~--------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------.-----------------------------------~ 
De-Sioganizing Our Deliberations 
Professor Walter Nicgorski 

.. Professor Walter Nicgorski is an Associate Professor in the 
General Program and a member ofthe Student Life Council. 
Code 
~~you 
te.aub~
.. , : .... {'~
t-• ~I .•;~-"' 
Any newly elected member of the SLC should know enough to keep quiet for awhile. That sensible reflection was very much at the front of my mind as I considered The Observer's invitation to contribute to this space on the human sexuality rule. After all, among the SLC's members are a substantial number who directly experienced last year's efforts to deal with the problem; fur­thermore, whatsomeperson Is anxious to make a public statement on this difficult matter, and finally, what good can come from tipping my hat, namely giving an early sign where I stand. Better, it might seem, to approach the SLC's deliberations more coyly, without a printed record of advocacy for one side or the other. 
Those good reasons for silence were set aside by the hope that my thoughts might contribute to the campus discussions that usually precede and Influence the SLC deliberations. "Contribute to" does not mean "prevail over,"--but It does mean being a factor that's considered and thought about. And maybe in the end I will get the benefit of having by thought refined by the discussions ahead. In 
----~._.places where men are men and women better he ladies 
••• the students are not 
youths. They Are, as Father HesburRh put it, youn~ adults • . • ."'nlcnever there is 11n !"'t­te~nt to Adhere to the theory of prolon~ed ~~nlescence .•• a fnirly recent ~evelopment in our history, there'~ P,ointo; to be trouhlP. 'lotrp D~ml", na ~e hnve ~P.Pn. h1s ~~n~~e~ to :>voi ~ th i.. t,-o·.thl P, by tre:>tin~ itro ,.-t•t'lent·· not ~s chil.~ren but PS yonnr ~,n1t~. But "bove Pll., thn ~uthori tiP there ~re not ~ fr~ i rl nf the yo·tnr, •••Nctre DrtTDP. is S:"J.\'in!': ...thPt when ynu trent nF''lple like ~1ul. ts, ...; th <li •;"li -~~ ~n<l unrferst:~ntli n~. t.he.•· bf"'r.ave 
Uke a<lults." 
--closinr, rem~r~s NBC FIR:3T TUESTJ.\Y 

IN KNOWLEDGE THERE IS STRENGTH 
Toward a Vision of Credible Reality 
Jude Bremer is a Senior American Studies major from Ames, Iowa, a Resident Assistant in Walsh Hall, and a 
Part of the rule reads: "Reverence for the
former member of the Student Life 
person necessitates a struggle to make our
rouncil. 
actions consistent with the reality of our 
On Friday, Sept. 20, the University relationships". The concept of reality at acknowledged our right to hear a Com­Notre Dame is difficult to even think about. munist speaker. Similarly, I concede that It Overcoming the narrow-mlndedness that is_ is a viable right of the University to state a so everpresent here Is one of our greatest policy of sexual morality. The placement of challenges. The homogenlety manifested by this statement Is the crux of the current a group of 6,000 individuals Is unreal, I feel issue. not the statement Itself. that the intolerance toward lndivldualitv Is From the deep inside the protective womb my greatest frustration. Trying to prepare of Notre Dame, I believe that It is often ourselves for "the real world" In an "unreal difficult for us to see beyond next weekend. · university" Is Impossible. For this reason 
It ISSO easy to become Ingrained with the we must respect each other's Individuality Immediate, that we often fall to maintain an and we must strive to create our own unique overview of our lives. We must realize the individuality. This theme Is what I would 
turn, I dohopethat student leaders and others who have expressed themselves publicly and whose opinions are touched on hereafter will be strong enough to approach the Issue as concerned leaders searching for the right solution and not as people playing out supposedly expected roles (e.g. the anti-Administration role or the student freedom posture). 
The Issue has Increasingly come down to a decision on whether to maintain a rule, backed up with real penalties, forbidding extra­marital sex on campus or whether to settle for a statement of the moral position of the University and leave acceptance of-that and compliance with It to the choice of halls and, or individuals. I can honestly say that I am not sure which, under the present cir­cumstances, Is the best approach to sue In dealing with fornication on campus. However, Implied In that admission of my uncertainty there are two affirmations that should be made explicit. One Is that the University must care---namely be concerned with the effect of its activities and environment on the character of Its students. The second Is that a rule or law can be an appropriate instrument of moral education. 
A few words about each of these statements Is all that limited space allows. One connot speak of the University's care ar active concern for lts ··fudents without stirring up the charges of pater­nalism and in:, :o parentis. This charge or slogan that pretends to be an arguement should be met head on. That any modern in­stitution shouid be touched with some features of paternal or parental conc~rn for those whom It serves should be an occasion of surprise and rejoicing. What could, after all, be more reasonable than that th~ institution which provides, among other things, a residential community for young epople in their first years away from home should not entirely and at once break with the love, concern and discipline that characterize a good home. 
There have been and will be claims that universities should be neutral on matters of personal morality and accordingly most universities and colleges have abandoned any concern with their students' lives outside the classroom, library and laboratory. One is never, I trust, to be intimidated lnto"runnlng with the pack." Futhermore, what is happening elsewhere deserves more probing scrutiny than impressionlsticmedla surveys ever dare to provide; my point is to ral~e the question whether positions of neutrality by administrators and faculty are explained by decisions of prin­ciple or by fatigue, by, in other words, an abdication or atrophy of a sense of responsibility and theburdensthat go with it. Not only does a Catholic University, while tending to Its immediate responsibility of intellectual devE'Iopment, never forget the ultimate goal of all human endeavor, but also, It seems that any university would be deficient If it neglected aspects of Its common life that harmed the 
overall personal development of Its students. 
To say that a rule or law can be an appropriate Instrument of moral education Is not, of course, to say that all morality should be "enforced by law" or that "morals can be legislated." It does, however, recognize that laws which regulate our overt behavior, or the absence of such laws, can Influence the kind of situations we are placed in, the moral colmate In which we are growing and, of course, the personal habits we form. In the national debate over civil rights legislation in the early 1960's, the point was made again and again that "you c~n't legislate morality," "you can't force whites to accept blacks." That point Is simply true, but It Is also true that one result of the rights secured by that legislation has been to bring blacks and whites Into more regular and ordinary contacts. Thatklnd of situation has encouragec myny whites to reassess their prior general and prejudicial views of blacks; It has, in other words, contributed to a healthv moral develoPment. 
You cannot legislate morals, but you can, by the presence or ab­sence of laws, Influence the formation and development of personal moral codes. In this regard, the SLC's Inquiry Into the present functioning of parletals (soon to be known as "visitation hours") Is a very important responsibility; there must be a thorough and honest appraisal of how present policies aid or harm the moral deveiopment of students. The human sexuality rule would be best reapproached after the wider Issue of parletals Is fully considered. 
Jude Bremer 
myopia, the occurrence of shallow, even degrading, sexual relatlolnshlps is real. This profession of consideration for the individual is In complete accord with the ideals of concern that are continually ex­pressed here at Notre Dame. This concern Is not limited to the student body but I~ In­tegrated among the faculty, students, ad­ministration, even extending to the South Bend Community. 
I feel that the dissatisfaction and con­fusion arises from the fact that this philosophy Is disguised as a rule, a nebulous rule at that. Anyone will agree that there Is a vast difference between sexual In­discretion and sexual Immorality. Does this mean that the rules should differentiate between "first degree sexual offence" and "second degree sexual offence"? This type of legislation destroys the feeling, or possible the occurrence, of trust Implied In this community of active care and concern. In short, I feel that we should not try to legislate morality. 
The mere connotation of a rule implies something to be avoided but the Ideals In a philosophy are something that one may strive for. I feel tyhat by placing the statement of sexual morality In the In­troduction to the rules as a philosophy It would relieve the confusion and frustration now associated with the Issue. 
necessity to telescope our vision toward a like to have the sexual morality philosophy --------------------------------­credible picture of reality. This outward mean to us Instead of a mere attempt to The SLC be • d• • he a} de 
growth process Is our main goal during our regulate biological urges. glDS lSC\SSIOn on t sexu CO short stay under the Dome; the theme of As a philosophy against the crimes of day 30 • .a.L-. f1 b 
the statement of sexual morality Is merely usery, It Is a fitting statement In a Christian tO at 4: p.Dl. In U.lt: mmer CJSemeni • an affirmation of this qrowth process. institution. With our penchant toward •
_j 

\ 
' 
Not Heroes ' 
'· 
Dear Editor, 
There are always two sides to ar.y issue, however, proponents of universal amnesty do not choose to examine the other side of the coin. An example would be Miss Manley's letter of October 2 which stereotypes draft evaders as men motivated by the 'courage of their convictions" and all Vietnam veterans as "drug ad­dicts ... suffering from psychological disorders resulting from beinl' a party to atrocities." Such sweeping generalizations are wholly biased and inaccurate, so lets get back to reality. 
Having lost a brother and a friend in Vietnam and also being essentially a critic our Asian policies may perhaps enable me to shed a little light on the subject. 
Vietnam was a tragedy for the nation and for my family in par­ticular. We are not vengeful and neither are the majority of Viet­nam veterans I have known. But not all the deserters should be applauded as heroes to some higher moral calling. Many of those living in exile are having difficulty in the countries they are living in. Some are felons and drug addicts, and still others are members of militant subversive organizations and are considered undesirables in the countries they are exiled in. It would only be sensible to examine each case for its own merits. 
We should also remember that exile is for less a courageous act than accepting imprisonment and concern ourselves first with those who truly followed their con­sciences and accepted the penalty of the law. Also we should consider that applications for deferment, conscientious objection or plane fare to Canada were options opened only to well-to-do middle class whites and that in many instances the poor, minority groups and those not bright enough or rich enough to go to college went and died in their place. That had a deteriorating effect on the conduct of the war and on the services in general. 
We should be understanding in our terms of amnestv but we should not welcome them all back as the true heroes of the Vietnam era. They did not refuse to serve­they avoided serving and there is an important moral difference. A truly conscientious objector would not return, no matter what the offer was, until we had totally changed our policy in Southeast Asia. Now that the danger is over their consciences seem a little diminished. They will condescend, it seems to forgive us. 

Because th<> war was con­troversial ar. '~cause we are anxious to m l our country's wounds, lenienc~ 'sa sound policy to follow. But I don't think the draft evaders quite warrant a hero's welcome. :Iough perhaps not traitorous, tl. . were at least irresponsible in their actions. 
Once the amnesty issue is resolved I hope we don't forget the 'cowards" who served and are jobless, in need of education or confined to Veterans Hospitals for the rest of their lives. They deserve a break too. 
Sincerely, 
Stephen R. Judge 
Steak 

To the Editors, 
"Students want more Steak," read the headline. At at time when half our planet subsists on one or two bowls of rice per day and famine kills thousands every time the sun sets on Northern Africa, Bangladesh, India and our inner cities, my fellow students cry out for more, not less of what is rapidly becoming an expensive and disappearing luxury that half the people on this earth have never seen, let alone tasted. 
With acquiescence to this demand, our continued gorgingly obscene preoccupation with football, our chauvinism and self­indulgent 'hell with the rest of humanity' attitude, the large majority of our community con­tinues to make a mockery of the Jesus ethic. and continues to hf\ deaf and bltnd to the shortages of food, of resources, and more im­portantly of truly committed and consciential people who could, if 
only they would look around them, "see things that never were and say, 'Why not?' " 
More steak indeed, no wonder my tuition is so damned inflated! 
Sadly, Patrick Dillon '75 
Losing Together 
Dear Editor: 
As a high school sports Editor two years ago, I wrote a column which was critical of our beaten football team's play. Like our fighting Irish that high school team had championship potential. Like Pete McHugh's "Extra Points" article of September 30, my column was unnecessary, inac­curate, and unfair. 
If we won together, we must lose together and pick each other up as well. The time is now to relinquish any bitterness, beat the rest of our opponents, win a bowl game, and let the polls take care of them· selves. We must do this together, Mr. McHugh, for that is the source of our past and future greatness. 
Digger Walsh. '77 
Twain Updated 
Dear EDitor: 
Mark Twain, while lecturing to pay off the many debts he had incurred, used to amuse his audiences with the tale of an ex­periment he claims to have per­formed. He took a rabbit and put it in a cage, and into this cage he gradually introduced a fox, a sheep, a lion, a kangaroo, and various other animals, and in a very short while they became friends and lived together peacefully. Encouraged by his success, he caught an Irish Catholic, a Baptist, a Presbyterian, a Turk, and various other types of men and put them in a cage. Within an hour they were all dead. They'd killed each other in a theological disagreement. Twain found this curious. 
Recently, a group of people took up the date on this experiment, and decided to try again. The problem was, they thought, that Twain had put too much variety into his sample. They sought to relieve this difficulty by repeating the experiment with only Irish Catholics. They further resolved that the sample be young, of middle-class origin, and reasonably intelligent. This last requirement proved a stumbling block to the Irish, so the group was forced to accept Poles and Ger­mans to fill out the quota. In all there were four female subjects and seven male. Now, they thought, with so much in common, and with so much to offer each other, surely these men and women will get along peacefully. They, too, had their expectations disappointed. 
The subjects found it at first difficult to disagree with each other, they were so alike, but they soon found out that there was the one difference of sex, and quickly drew battle lines. The form of combat was novel: as it was un­becoming a gentleman to strike a lady, and it was unbecoming a coward of either sex to own up to an opinion that he or she held, they took to vilifying each other in un­signed letters sent to the local newspaper. The combat was not as fatal as the one that Twain witnessed, but this was not the fault of those who waged it, they did the best they could. 
If Mr. Twain was alive today, 
I'm sure he'd feel confirmed in his 
belief that "man is the curiousest 
creature on earth." 
Sincerely: 
T. Alexander Radgowski 
Bias and Blasphemy 
Dear Editor: 
It is rather significant that the Observer carried the piece "Bias Charged in Despres Appointment" (27 Sept.) two days after the letter to Editor from Peter R. Moody Jr. (25 Sept.) launched such a Blasphemous attack against Jesus Christ (and Professor Rice) on the abortion issue! Let your readers refer once again to the 25 Sept issue of The Observer and their obfuscation over the Despres­Kurtz-Crosson-Hesburgh rhubarb might be cleared up! After all, Notre Dame is (or was??) a Catholic, private educational in­stitution ! ! 
Edward J. Murray CSC Professor Emeritus 


1111111111111111111111111111111I111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111nnllltmlllltiHIIHllltiiiiMI Night Editor -Rick Blower Ass't Night Edit·Jr -Andy Praschak Layout -Maggl'a Waltman, Martha Fanning, Kathy Skiba, Candy
Frankovelgla 
Copy Reader -Bob Queakenbush Day Editor -Ken Girouard Editorials -Fred Graver, Bill Brink Point-Counterpoint -Fred Graver 
Features -J.R. Baker Sports -Greg Corgan Typists -Janet Carney, Kathy Grace, Camille Arrleh, Nell VIII, Rick 
Huber Compugraphic Operator -Bob Stelnmet:t Picture Screener -Albert 0'Antonio Night Controller -Dave Rust Happy Birthday, Griff! 
Diet Week 

Dear Editor: 
I would personally like to thank the Food Service for their newest meal program: Diet Week. These past few days have served as a great incentive in cutting down appetites throughout the campus. 
Paul Drzaic 
Laundry Lament 

Dear Editor, 
Having just experienced one of the worst hassles Notre Dame has to offer -the student laundry service -I feel compelled for the sake of personal satisfaction to air my feelings on that "institution." 
One Thursday, I walked into the South Quad Laundry outlet behind Badin Hall, as if it were any other Thursday, ready to pay my $1.32 in coupons for putting too much laundry into the wash. But the laundry had surprises in store ­they lost my bundle of clothes. Believe me, that wasn't what disturbed me. I realize that many ND students lose the equivalent of a laundry bundle; except their loss is spread over the course of a year, whole I lost mine all at once. 
What upset me was the rude, dishonest treatment the workers in the office displayed toward me. Returning to the office the next day to see if anything new had developed, I had to wait 45 minutes until the "boss" finally strolled in, one-half hour late from her lunch break. She reassured me that she's "look into it." When I returned one hour later, as I was told, the boss informed me that she had located the receipt of my laundry bundle, meaning that my clothes had been given to another student. What amazed me was how they could have accomplished that, since the workers check the names on the laundry bundles before giving them out. Unfortunately, it took the boss 6 more days to figure out that the serial numbers of the laundry numbers of the laundry coupons pinned to the receipt could be traced to the student who received my clothes. 
Finally, the next day, the student was located, returned my laundry, and I was able to claim it. The laundry workers personally assured me that they had checked the contents of my bundle against the receipt and had found that everything was there; but I decided to see for myself, and immediately found two articles missing. Getting quite perturbed, I hardly l:fegan telling the boss of my discovery when she announced that she already knew of my lost clothes and would "look into it." Shocked, the only conclusion I could draw was that the laundry service had purposely lied to me, hoping that I would not discover anything missing and, thus, forget all about the matter. 
Throughout those weeks of checking and calling to see if my clothes, had come in, I en­countered a total lack of concern )n the workers' part. In fact, the boss took more pains in placing blame on a newly-hired worker than she did in locating my laundry. I only hope that this situation can be corrected so that more students do not face this predicament. 
Sincerely yours, Jeff Vitter La"'_IJdrx No. 31140 

Monday, October 7, 1974 the observer 
9 

Vows respect for hostages 
Vargas lowe~s ra11som demands 
SANTO DOMINGO <UPI)--President Joaqum Balaguer has In response to pubhc op1mon, thwt of the government," he said. allowed to shout from the sidewalk 
Guerrilla leader Radhames Mendez Vargas, shouting from a window "It's time to end this busines~ " Thursday dropped his demand for a $1 million ransom for seven hostages and offered to trim the list of political prisoners he wanted exchanged. 
"As revolutionaries we respect the human being, and there is no threat at present against the physical integrity of the hostages " he said. ' 
The ransom concessions were the first ones by the pro-castro Jan. 12 National Liberation Movement since it occupied the consulate last Friday and asked for release of three-dozen political prisoners and $1 million. 
The group set four different deadlines for executing the hostages--including American 
diplomat  Barbara  Hutchison--at  
two-hour  intervals  but  let  each  
pass.  

The government maintained silence on the concessions. 
NO enrollment 
increases over last semester 
Enrollment for the fall semester at the University of Notre Dame reached 8,651 this week, an in­crease of 65 over last year's total of 8,586 last year, but the number of women enrolled in the third year of coeducation jumped from 831 to 1,138. 
An additional 377 women are enrolled in postbaccalaureate programs with 93 among the 430 students in the Law School and 26 among the 184 enrolled in the graduate program in business administration. There are 1,218 men and women enrolled in graduate programs, compared to 1,213 last year and 1,202 the year before. 
Enrollment . in the un­dergraduate colleges shows 2,034 this year and 2,046last year in Arts and Letters: 1,382 this year and 1,266 last year in 
Business Administration; 918 this year and 948 last year in Science, and 783 this year and 771 last year in Engineering. There are 1,701 enrolled in the Freshman Year of S for Program this year, compared to last year's 1,786. 
The enrollment figures include students participating in overseas programs in London; Angers, France; Innsbruck, Austria; Rome; Tokyo and Mexico City. Preliminary figures show 351 students from neighboring Saint Mary's College attending classes at Notre Dame, and 430 Notre Dame students attending one or more classes at Saint Mary's under a co-exchange program. 
·ac:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::;:;:;:;~:;:;:;:;:;:;. 
~ *~'I'V"C!* ~~:
~ ~~~~~ I :t SHOE SHOP ;:;:
il Iii
BENEATH BADIN 
I I 
:;~ COMPLETE SELECTION OF~~: ~; TOP BRAND FOOTWEAR ~;j ;;;~ KNAPP SHOES ~;; 
LEATHER AND ZIPPER REPAIR 
ACCESSORIES 
offered the guerrillas, believed to newspaper editorials and requests U.S. Ambassador Robert Hur-to Miss Hutchison who reported number only six, nothing m?re ;from member~ of famil!es. of the witch and his Spanish and she was "okay" ~nder the cir-than safe conducts for leavmg hostages askmg mediation to Venezuelan counterparts cumstances. Santo Domingo in return for resolve the conflict, and whose requested. the government earlier Archbishop Hugo Eduardo releasing the captives unharmed. requests have fallen on the deaf to allow a doctor to enter the Polanco Brito, presumably at the 
Among the hostages are Mi~s e~rs of ~he government, the Ja~. 12 captured building to treat request of the government, with­Hutchison, U.S. embassy pubhc Liberation Movement has decided Alvarado and a guerrilla suffering drew as the food-supplying affairs officer; Venezu~lan consul to desist .in some demB:nds." from a bullet wound, apparently mediator Tuesday, leaving the Jesus Gregorio and VICe con~ul .H~ said the. guernllas were accidental, in the leg. . guerrillas and hostages without Waldemar. Alvarado; Spamsh wllhng.~o talk ~Ith the goyernment Hurwitch and the Spamsh food and water for 36 hours. priest Santiago Fuentes, and three ~bout a ~ss1ble reduction of the Ambassador took some food, Police had lights and water to Dominican employes of the con-hst" of pnson~rs to be released as water, cigarettes and medicine to the building cut off but restored the sulate. well as droppmg. t~e demand for the building shortly before mid-lelephone connection from time to 
Mendez Vargas suddenly payment of $1 millu~n. night Wednesday. Hurwitch was time. shouted his retra~tion of the .Mendez Vargas said Venezuelan ransom demand m a hoarse VIce consul Waldemar Alvardo 
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
m?nologue shortl~ before noon, w~s verr, ill an.d "worsening by.the 
needsusmg a make~h1ft megapho!le mmu~e. He d1d not say what ailed apparently fashioned from milk the d1pl?mat: . cartons. . . . Th:,. Situation ~~. the consulate 

CLOWNS
"'!_'he government IS drawmg thi,~ was msufferable and that there affair out to t~y to w~ar .us down,, had ~o be an ~~tempt to reach a for PROJECT HEAD START Clown Programhe yelled. Well, It JUSt wo~ .~ s~lutwn soon or wha~ ~~ppens work; Let there be an en~ s.oon. Will not be our responsibility but Volunteer an hour or two to make a 
Mendez Vargas ongmally Kunst fl·rst man youngster's first days in school a
demanded freedom for 37 con-
memorable experience.

victed extremists. but a submitted tO Walk arOUnd 
list had only 33 names. Other ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING: 6 P.M. Tues. Oct. 8 guerrillas in the consulate have the entl•re globe Room 228, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's. 
spoken of 35 and 38 comrades. Or call 284-4141 for information. 
"Attention, journalists!" he By LINDA THRANE -••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
cried to newsmen a half-block WASECA, Minn. <UPI) -1 1UIICHJGAN STREET • 
away at the police cordon. "Here Until David Kunst strode into : IYJI 1.1. : goes an important communique: this rustic southern Minnesota :: ADULT THEP1IHES :: 
community, no man had walked
Peru declares 
around the world. I ~urnin g Two legs and 22 pairs of .: X 2 fiL1UID .:
daY 0 ,.,,._ shoes carried Kunst 15,000 1Y~ for ,.....,.,e victillB miles in 4 1;2 years to make him • X BOCESI'CJIE ::
~WUA the first man on record to walk Lima UPI -Peru declared a day the globe-except for the of national mourning Sunday to oceans. • • commemorate the rising number "It was a human thing, a : X LIVE fLcx:::fl SfiC)W : 
of victims of a brief but powerful fantastic accomplishment for ~ earthquake that shook the capital man," a weathered, gaunt but e• 131·6 s~ wH MICHIGAN STREET.::
and smaller coastal towns. beaming Kunst, 35, said Satur-'-1\.11 • 
The civil defense command said day at the end of his trek. at latest count 83 persons died and "It took two legs," he said. • CALL 282·120£. fnR INfQDAAAIJn • 2,500 were injured in the two-"There were no machines, I :•••••••••••••••••'L.~•••••••••IWH1 ~ • • minute quake Thursday that didn't have to learn how to sail ­
damaged or destroyed 18,000 a ship or didn't have to fly a §_= ·==--==5
HAROLD MEDOW
buildings. plane to do it." Thd~l death tollb00h.as mounted There were no signs of the §=====~­
sea 1y as new 1es were un-antagonism Kunst had aroused =
t usED CARS
covered in the rubble, but the when outspoken comments he 5 
damage was nowhere near that of made about marriage, Waseca 5 the disastrous 1970earthquake that and "damn dumb foreigners" = ~ took an estimated 67,000 lives in appeared in a newspaper ~==-AND TRUCKS 5
northern Peru. article two weeks ago. 5 As 500 building inspectors fanned "I'm touched," Kunst told the = =-;===
through Lima and the Pacific coast crowd. "There are a lot of §_ towns to the south of Lims, the really big people here today." = damagestoproperty_w_ere estimate<l' Kunst and a brother, John, ~ Lafayette at LaSalle = atF'fore ;tan ~~ ~Il!I~~-t bl' left Waseca June 20, 1970, in i ~ b 'lda.gs eGw a a f s a ka put IC the company of a mule named = ~ 
m mgs: .roups o wor men ore Willie-Make-It primarily for a I__ Phone 233-2129 
down bmldmgs weakened by the colossal adventure and also to I! ~ 
quake. · d f = 
raise onatons or UNICEF· mewlllalutiUIIHUIIIU.I'DW'-·r"M-.-U•mwnunutiWIII11111111118 
r--------------------~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 
' ' 
i DANCING LESSONS 
l 

' t t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 


t 

QUICK SERVICE REASONABLE 
' t t

OPEN 8-6 MON-FRI 9-4 SAT 
t FRAN DEMARCO
·.·: PH 283-1144 -:·: 
l::::::::::..-::~=::~-:;:;:~:~:~:::::::::::~::*~ 
l-------------------------· ~-------..J 


Day Care Center offered to ND-SMC communit 
By Cathy Busto Staff Reporter 

The administrator of the Happy 
Day Care Center, Inc., Mrs. Pat 
Garreffa, defined the goals of the 
Center at St. Mary's Friday. 

"We are here to help the children 
develop as individuals, said 
Garreffa. The main effort will not 
be to accelerate the child's 
development, but rather to 
idt-ntify the stage the child is in and develop it to its fullest while offering ample opportunity for 
advancement as the child in­
dicates." 

The Center is open five days a 
week and offers two programs : a 
nursery school program for three 
year olds, and another for four 
year olds which will parallel the 
day care services. Although it is 
located on the SMC campus, the 
Center is private and operates as a 
small corporation. The Center is 
open only to Saint Mary's and 
Notre Dame faculty, ad­
ministrators, and students. Mrs. 
Garreffa explained that many of 
the children's mothers attend 
graduate school at Notre Dame. 
Now in its fourth year of 
operation, the school has a total 
enrollment of fifty children and a 
,·. Boston busing opponents 
" 
; ~ battle desegregation order 
Boston UPI -Anti-busing forces opened the fourth week of their battle against court-ordered school desegregation Sunday with a peaceful motorcade and the beginning of a three days of religious observances. 
About 200 opponents of the busing program which has af­fected about half of the city's 94,000 students, took part in a motorcade and demonstration outside the Statler Hilton Hotel in the business district of the city. 
They attempted to enlist the support of the Massachusetts Building and Construction Trades Council, which was holding a convention at the hotel. 
The 100-car motorcade, horns blaring and placards waving, drove from South Boston to the hotel, where the demonstrators 
.. 
.< 
) 
~> 
NICKlE'S 
TONIGHT 
& 

DlRNGEVERY NOCAY NIGHT FOQlBAU. ~ 
's 
3 OlD 5mES FOR $1.00 


FROIV\ KICKOFF TO THE 
ANAL GUN! 

NON FEATURING 5 PCXl. TABLES FeR ALL YOO PCXl. SHARK51 
held a rally. 
A representative of the demonstrators spoke to the council convention, which later passed a resolution supporting quality education, but opposing forced busing. 
Police reported no arrests for 
incidents. 
Meanwhile, a spokesman for the South Boston Home and School Association, Mrs. Rita Growl, sa~· 
her organization was sponsoring three-day rosary recital and h d scheduled an ecumenical service Monday as another part of lhe protest against the buling program ordered by U.S. Di$trict Court Judge W...Arthur Gatrity. 
School Department officials continued their preparat\6ns for the resumption of classes Monday. More than 250 transitional aides 
~~· 
•\-r
.._,_....,~ 

Garretfa: We are here to help the children develop as Is. 
faculty of four. The teacher­student ratio is one teacher for every fiftyeen children. Thirty children attend in the morning and twenty-seven attend in the af­ternoon. Some children attend all day. 
In addition to the faculty, over 
sixty volunteers from sociology 
and psychology classes work two 
to three hours a week at the 
Center. 
A multi-media approach is used 
to teach the children. According to .Garreffa, art, music and drama are being integrated with the new thtngs they are learning about children and human interaction in 

(Photo by Paul Joyce) psychology, education, and socio\ogy to develop novel ways of teachlflg children. She offered two examples of how the technique is used: "A person trained in creativ~ dramatics could help the childrefl to understand sharing, to see alternative ways to solve a proble¥·or to see another person's point of iew. Also, a variety of art exercise are being developed to 
teach so e very specific per­
ceptual skil~." 
Garreffa added that she would like to expand in the future because she has a waiting list of thirty-five families who would like their children to attend the Center. 
and bus monitors turned out Saturday for a half-day training session at Dorches~r High School. The aides have been used ex­tensively at schools to combat disorders arising from the busing program. 
State Education Commissioner Gregory R Anrig said Saturday he expected that school attendance would return to a normal 80 per cent level this week following the boycott Friday, which dropped attendence to 52.2 per cent, the lowest since schools opened Sept. 12. 
Kagel'sFlowers &Gifts 602 N. Mchigan St. 
.~ Phone 233-2232 
-F. T.D. 
I 
RESERVATIONS
t­
284·4176 
Student · Faculty ND-5MC Staff $1.50' 

SMC 
THEATRE 
1974-75 Our Ninth Season 

LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGEL 
Ketti Frlngs' Pulitzer Prize play based on the novel byThomas Wolfe. 
Oct. 4, 5, 1 0, 11, 12 at 8:00 P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1 


52980 U.S.31 North 272-5220 presents 
frig~t jlroa.overland Stage co. 
everything from Clown-home luegrass to contemporary rock 
BEGINNING OCTOBERS-3 SHOWS 
NIGHTLY F R 0 M 9 :0 0-2:0 0 SUNDAY FROM 8:30-12:00 
~---------------------­
Monday, October 7, 1974 
the observer 
11 

.. 
Bike registration schedule set 
"HELP US HELP YOU . . . . REGISTER YOUR BIKE"-That's the motto of a bicycle registration program that is being run this week under the sponsorship of the Dean of Students Office and Notre Dame Security. Registration will begin today and continue through Friday at several on -eampus locations for the convenience of the students. 
The program is being sponsored in order to assist Notre Dame students in registering their bicycles so as to safeguard against thefts and confiscations. If sue­cessful, the information gathered will be utilized to help facilitate possible improvements in bike storage and winter storage. 
The word confiscations is in­cluded in the preceding paragraph in reference to the mandatory registration of bikes required in So•Jth Bend. Unregistered bikes are subject to confiscation by Sough Bend police. Therefore, organizers of the registration program believe it is necessary for all student bike owners to cooperate with the program, as the ND registration will be recognized 
Brezhnevc!..emands an 
earIy end 
BERLIN <UP!) -Leonid I. Brezhnev, general secretary of the Soviet Communist party, Sunday renewed the Kremlin's demand for an early conclusion of the Conference on European Security, the East German news agency ADN said. 
The veteran Soviet diplomat, in East Berlin to attend the 25th anniversary celebration of East Germany's founding, told a Communist party rally in Werner Seelenbinder Hall that in the interest of peace the conference should come to a conclusion "as early as possi­ble". 
Gromyko had voiced similar demands in his recent talks 
to talks 
with C h a n c e 11 or Helmut Schmidt and Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher in the West German capital of Bonn. 
Gromyko told the East Berlin rally that the Communist Bloc "is stretching out its hand of peace and friendship to the 
other  countries of  the  continent  
and hopescooperation".  for  constructive  
Brezhnev  flew  into  East  
Berlin  Saturday,  accompanied  

by Defense Minister Andrei Grechko and Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko. 
Brezhnev said that agree­ments concluded in recent years on a cutback in arma­ments "are not working badly. 
WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189 

FRIDAY OCTOBER" S-111"' S~TIJND~Y QCTIII( ll ,,,_mitlllfAt 
POL\tlt tAVSACll tRiSM FOliC DAMCi ... DILLY DAtfCllltCO 
llLA<IK A"TS D:SPLAY 

IOAtE5K, UICIIAH~N Fo~ o.t~MCING KAftAlf ot.lh~fi6Tf!A'fiOM GIERM.,. U eR GARII£115 . P»I.ISft HUNCARiAM FOLK OAtle:iM' OAIICiNC UHDE:R 1KE :l'TAA$1hCM1"" FRO" 7•\1 Pllll 
mE CIVIC MINDED SHOPPING CENTER 
as valid in South Bend. 
The registration costs only one dollar and is good for four years. Registrants are requested to have ready the following information: make of bike, type, color, serial number, identifying charac­teristics, and the usual basic facts such as name, local address, and phone number. 
Jim Panici, a Notre Dame senior, is coordinating the program and any questions about bicycles throughout the year may be directed to him at the Student Government offices <phone 283­
6413) Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, from 11:30 to 1:00, Tuesday and Thursday from 12:30 
to 2:00, and on weekends or incase of emergencies call either 234-3559 or 289-6726. You may also use these numbers to report the theft or recovery of a bike. 
Both the Hall President's Council and the Ombudsman Service will be lending assistance 
to Panici throughout this week's program.
Times and locations for the registration service are as follows: North Dining Hall <AB Lobby), l1:30-1:00, Monday through Friday South Dining Hall (Main Lobby), 
11: 30  -1: 00,  Monday  through  
Friday  
The  Huddle, 12:00-1:00,  MOnday  

through Friday 
Main Lobby of LaFortune, 3:00­S:OO, Monday through Thursday 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Gold ring. Initials JMA·­Call 3336--Big Rew<~rd! · 
Lost: White Ski sweater, red, gold balck trim. Reward. Call 8674 or 8672. 
Found: Car keys at O'Shag Tues. afternoon Call 6917 
Lost: Whittenauer gold ladie's wristwatch. Lost between Morris Inn and Dillon. Call 7181. 
Found: one male dashchund Thurs. nile. Owner please claim. Call Observer, 8661, or Mary, 4167. 
FOR SALE 
For sale: 6 string acoustic guitar with case. Excellent cond. $75. Call Tom, 1409. 
Motel room for weekend of Rice game. Call Jane, 7076. 
2 EPI 100' Hi.fi speakers. S60 each. 282-2255. 
NOTICES 
Need a ride for semester break? Wilson driveaway has cars going to many soots in the U.S. and your only expense is gas. For info call Jim Scott, 1694. Due to an abundance of cars going to Miami, special offers including partial or compl<:!le gas allowances are being made. Check it out. 
HOCKEY GAME: CAMPUS 'VIEW CRUNCHIES VS. THE
1 

ALUMNI DOGS. TUESDAY, OCT. 8, AT 10:30, A.C.C. RINK. TO SIGN UP, CALL CLIFF AT 272­9895 AFTER 8:00 P.M. 
Money? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15-12:15. 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFOR­TUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER ARE 12:15-5:00 MWF, AND 11:00­
1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TT. 
Legal problem, but no money? 
N.D. Legal Aid can help. Call 283. 7795 M-F, 1-4 pm. 
T'ICKETS FOR THE OCTOBER 20 AEROSMITH & MAHOGANY RUSH CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFOR­TUNE. 
1am doing a paper on Death. If you 
I have ever had an experience very close to death (i.e., life passing before you, etc.) and wouldn't mind being asked a few questions, call Joe, 3663. 
TALISMAN AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES, DANCES, CONCERTS, AND PREGAME PER­FORMANCES. CALL 272-9895 FOR INFORMATION. 
PERSONALS 
T.F., Happy 1st anniversary from the rocking of the cradle to the rolling of the hearse, the going up was worth the coming down. 
Later, Chas 
Cree: 1 love you. eidetically. Plato 
Cutes, Thanks for a fantastic year. Love ya, CKM 
P.S. Floyd says Hi! 
Congratulations T. R. You have finally entered the M.J.R. syn. drome. 
Roomies 
Stellar Keacher: Happy 21st Birthday! 
There was a big 'AIKIE' named Dwin, With girls he just couldn't win, Now so lonely is he Call 1523 And bring your own bottle of gin. 
Dear Blake: Did somebOdy Irish ever have a Heartof Darkness? Besides, Kurtz was from Long Island, not Con. necticut. Stick with Ulysses ... Just singin' in the rain, Joseph Conrad 
Happy Birthday, Griff. The Observer Staff 
Thay Dan, Happy Birthday, Thweet 19? Look Sarah! 
M.B. 
H.B. Franklin E. 
Legally right, have fun last night? M.B. 
To Otis H. (alias Steve) Remember us at the party? No? Huh? Well, we remembered your B·day. 
Love, Mom and M.B. 
Lady in Red, We've got to stop meeting like this. When can I see you? 
The Slopper 
Lady Streaker, Streak or Shower. Let's Go 
There everywhere, there everywhere Egg Hunt: a prize for the most copies of local sur.erior returned to Joe Gower, 203 ·-Ed's. 
MEN-WOMEN ~bs on ships! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send S3.00 for information. SEAFAX DEPT G-13 P.O. Box 2049 Port Angeles, Wash. 98362 
FOR RENT 

For rent: modern executive 2­bedroom coHage located on 30 wooded acres of St. Joseph River frontage and Orch-•d Hills Golf Course. Winterized coHage also features large fireplace, wall-to­wall carpeting, fully equipped kitchen, and riding horses. Perfect for out-of-towners on Notre Dame football weekends with only a 20­minute ride to the stadium. SISO per week. Call 616-695-6043. 
Garage for rent near N.D. S8 monthly. Call 272.6174. 
Rooms for rent. 1or 2 singles. O.C. . 1021 DeMaude. Convenient location, gOOd neighborhOOd. S55 mo.. incl. utilities. Call 232·2773. 
WANTED 

Need 8 tickets to Miami game. Call 255-7034 between 10:00 and 5:00 
Wanted: 8 tickets to Miami game. Call 255·7034 between 10:00 and 5:00. 
Need two GA Rice tickets. Call Terry, 8922. 
House parents wanted. Full time live-in or part.time live.out. Girls Group Home. Near downtown So. Bend. Excellent experience op. gortunity for students in Soc, 
Psych, or related fields. Salaried. Married couple (no children) or 2 women. Girls are 14·17 yrs. Eight is capacity. Reply to Mrs. Carol Wilken•. 233·9491. 
Need ride to N.J. for Oct. break · badly. Will share expenses. Call Kit, 6972. 
Wanted: 1 Rice ticket or else. Call me now. 284-4371. 
4 Army G.A. tix. Call John or Kathy, 282·1568. 
Desperately need Rice or Army tix. Call Pam, 5185, 233·1899. 
4 Rice tickets, student or G.A. Call 4774. 
Need 2 GA tix for Pitt. Call Larry, 288·7375. 
Desperately need two GA fix for Army. Call Rahj, 1612. 
Bass guitarist needed; top mQJley; no novices. 234·5320 after 5. 
Desperately need 1 GA ticket for Rice and 4 for PiH. Call Beth, 51<44. 
Needed: two tickets to the NO· Rice game. Call 272·0000. 
Need GA tickets for Rice, Army, or Miami. Call 288·3176. 
Wanted: 2 tickets to Miami game. Call Dr. Maison, at 272-9895 bet­ween 7:00 and 9:00p.m. 
Need ride to NYC weekend of Oct. 11, 12, and 13. Will share expenses. Call Dave, 1197. 
Needed: 2 Rice GA tickets. Call Terry, 8922. 
Desperately need ride to Boston area for Oct. break. Call Jim, 8439. 
Needed: 2 rides from Navy game back to N.D. Call Mary, 6141 or Patty, 6804. 
Need ride to Boston for Oct. break. Call Tim, 8591. 
Need ride to NYC area for break. Call Katie, 5493. 
Need 4 GA fix any Oct. home game Call Mary Beth, 4704. 
May Fair Rest waiters, 5·10·11 
p.m. Parttime or full time. Must be 21. $1.25 plus tips. 255·5517. 
Help! The Clan is making its first trip ever to N.D. I desperately need GA Pitt tickets. Call 3665. 
Ride wanted to CALIFORNIA during Oct. break. Call Tom, 3191. 
Desperately need 2 Rice tickets. Call 684·1010. 

·,'\" 
Back to basics. Irish dump MSU 
'· 

I 
'I 
• 

by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

When more complicated operations begin to go awry, get back to basics. 
At least that's what Ara Par­seghian thought and did Saturday afternoon as his Irish downed Michigan State 19-14. 
Missing from the Irish attack were the counters, misdirection plays and reverses which :typify Ara's high-geared multiple of­fense. Even more noticeably absent were the aerial acrobatics which Tom Clements and Pete Demmerle perform to delight the fans. 
But it was all according to plan. 
"We went back to basics," remarked Ara. "We wanted to go back to the fundamentals-­blocking, running off-tackle and up the middle." 
"We decided to play this game conservatively," he added. "We had been playing inconsistently, especially in the first half, and we thought we'd button up and play the running game." 
The ru'1ning game consisted mainly of fullback Wayne Bullock, who according to Parseghian "gave a super performance." Super meant 127 yards in a record­breaking 36 carries including some remarkable second, third and even fourth efforts. Bullock gathered nearly half of ND's 296 total yards. 
"I didn't expect to carry the ball that many times," said the senior from Newport News, Va. "I thought I would run the ball pretty much since it was in the game plan to go into the middle against them, and right now I'd say I'm pretty tired." 
Wayne's efforts were justly rewarded. Bullock accounted for both Notre Dame touchdowns, the first coming after Kevin Nosbusch recovered a Spartan fumble on the State 27. 
A personal foul on Michigan State sandwiched around a three yard gain by Jim Weiler and another two by Bullock put the ball on the 10. Clements, who was three of six passing for 35 yards, hit Weiler with a nine yard toss, and on the next play Bullock went in unmolested from the one. Dave Reeve was good on the conversion 
attempt and with 4:46left to play in the first quarter, the Irish were on top 7-o. 
The lead was extended to 10-Q early in the second period after a 14 yard punt by State's Tom Birney gave the Irish possession on the MSU 40. A Clements to Robin Weber pass put the ball on the Spartan 21 from where three plays later Reeve booted a 38 yard field goal. 
Ten to nothing became 16-Q seven minutes later when Bullock crashed into the north end zone from five yards out. The touch­down capped an official two-play eleven yard drive but was actually a 14-play, 59 yard scoring effort. The discrepancy arises since Clements fumbled on the eleventh play, with State recovering, and Clarence Bullock (no relation to Wayne) fumbled it back on the twelfth. 
Michigan State attempted a 26 yard field goal late in the half but it was wide to the right and at in­termission the score read 16-Q. 
"I've said for a long time that I'm immensely proud of a team that can bounce back after a defeat," said Parseghian, "and that's exactly what we did today." 
"It is very encouraging to come back the way we did after losing so badly to UCLA, then spotting Notre Dame the lead today," offered Spartan Head Coach Denny Stolz. "We didn't quit. I think we are a pretty good football team." 
Fortunately for the Irish, Par­seghian was referring to the entire ball game while Stolz was concerned with the second half. 
"At half time I told the team if 


OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

Linebacker Greg Collins and safety John Dubenetzky close in on MSU's Charley Baggett. Baggett got the ball off but was "bagged" anyway. 
we wouldn't leave the ball down on the field," added Stolz, "we could get our running going and score a couple of touchdowns in the second half." 
Stolz got his "couple" but that was all. 
The first came on a 99 yard 13 play drive aided by a roughing the kicker penalty on ND's Marv Russell. The score came when MSU quarterback Charley Baggett, who gave the Irish front four fits all day, scrambled right and found flanker Mike Jones all alone at the ND five yard line, The pass went for 26 yards and the Spartans' first score. 
The Irish scored their only points of the second half on a 32 yard field goal by Reeve. The offense had driven 65 yards, mostly on four and five yard runs by Bullock and AI 
Samuels , but stalled on the State · 
15 after Clements' third down pass 
to Weber was batted away. 
MSU took the ensuing kickoff and went 76 yards for a score. The big play in the drive was a 45 yard pass from the scrambling Baggett to tight end Mike Cobb. 
"Baggett is hard to corrall out there," said Ara. "The most difficult thing we had to do was to catch Baggett after we forced him out of his protection. His scrambling gave us the most trouble." 
Baggett then hit Levi Jackson with a 15 yard pass and six plays later tailback Rich Baes swept left end for the score, 
With 3:49 to play the Spartans still entertained thoughts of an upset, but a well~xecuted time consuming drive, featuring Samuel's crucial ten yard run on a third and eight from the ND 27 left State with only 12 seconds left. Baggett's last second desperation pass was intercepted by Randy Payne, 
"At the end," noted Parseghian, "when we had to, our football team took the ball and rammed it right down their throats. If we hadn't come up with a first down on that third and eight play, it might have made a big difference. We just went back to fundamentals-not beating ourselves,'' 
"I don't care about Leahy's record or anything like that (Ara 's victory put him in second place on the ail-time Jist), I'm just really delighted about our kids. They 
bounced back after a loss and beat and was released in time to travel a tough Michigan State team that's back with the team on Saturday a lot better than most people night. realize. 
"I learned a long time ago if you "The target date for Eric Penick win, it doesn't make any difference is Nov. 1," said Parseghian after 
Saturday's game. We're stillwhetherit's one point or ten. I told, 
our kids, you did better this year looking for key players, especially at the halfback position and if Eric
than last year. This time you won were to make it back it wouldby five points, last year it was help us. But he has a lot of con­four." 
ditioning to go through, he has to get his timing back and reacquaintIrish notes: Linebacker Coach himself with the system. If heGeorge Kelly was hospitalized came back anytime before Nov. 1Friday night with chest pains. 
it would be a bonus, but that's the 
Kelly spent the night in the hospital target date, 

Extra Points 
,============:=======:=:========:::===========================:::::==============;===========:===================Calling .lJack 
Notre Dame's 19-14 victory over the Spartans of Michigan State Saturday afternoon may have taken on the look of Bo Schembechler's three yards and a cloud of Astro-turf type offense at Michigan, but, as Ara said after the triumph, "It doesn't matter what the score was, we won, and a victory up here is a double victory in my opinion." 
That "double victory" culminated five days of intense preparation 
after the Purdue defeat. The feeling around campus was close to one of 
utter disappointment and despair. Someone even suggested that Ara 
might start playing freshmen and sophomores, in an attempt to give 
them the needed experience for next year, for our hope of being national 
champions again was in their words 'out of the question.' 
The Irish victory proved the credibility of Coach Parseghian and his 
staff, but more importantly, the moral victory the players received from 
the game gave them the confidence they desperately needed. "It's sure 
tough after losing because you lose confidence in yourself." said a 
jubilant Frank Allocco after the game, "Beating State up here makes up 
an awful lot from last week, and this may carry us on for the rest of the 
year." 

For the first time this season, Notre Dame played a good first half, 
something that was a major concern to Ara. "In our first three games, 
we played good second halves, but we never came out to play in the first 
halves. Today, we got 16 points on the board early and decided to play a 
tight game the second half and not make mistakes. State did make 
mistakes in the first half, and we capitalized on them." 
Also needed though for the victory, was Wayne Bullock, the Notre 
Dame offense for the afternoon. Waynebrokethe record for carries in one 
game for the Irish, carrying 36 times for 127 yards, and two touchdowns. 
Just looking at the statistics, the Irish ran 79 plays in the game, and 
Bullock carried in just less than half of them. 
"Wayne just had an excellent game," noted quarterback Tom Clements. "In our tough situations, we'd give him the ball, and his second effort (arried him through. We all had confidence in him, and he relally came through today." 
Guard AI Wujciak echoed Clements' sentiments. "Wayne had a fan­tastic game, and really read his blocks well. His ability to find the right holes makes him a tremendous threat on every play. When we went to him, we knew he could do the job." 
Spartan head coach Denny Stoltz was gracious in defeat 'It was a -MSU game, where the score would be low, and the game would be a question of who could hit harder. We spotted them a leadwecould never catch up to. and consequently, we lost." It was a hard-hitting game for both sides, and a game where most ,of the action was between the 30's. Notre Dame was mentally prepared to do the job necessary for the vic­tory. Whether the margin of victory was one or twenty-Qne points doesn't matter; rather, what counts is that we won a game we desperately needed. With Purdue behind us, Michigan State brought us back. 
n\ 



