

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 59 Thursday, January 17, 1974 

I 

I
ere e 


On The Inside 

Number 1 
Notre Dame defeats Alabama 24-23 to become National 
Champs ... page 16 


Amtrak Trip The Student Union trip gave students a trip to remember ... page 2 

The City 
Do you know what it means to miss New Orleans? 
... page 7 
Calendar Review 
he Academic Counci ill meet January 24 to take another look at the calendar ..• page 3 
I 

1. the observer Thursday, January 17, 1974 

warld briefs 

WASHINGTON <UPI)--U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica said Wednesday he is considering recom­mending a federal grand jury investigation of how a crucial Watergate conversation was erased from one of President Nixon's tape recordings. 
The White House denied that Nixon personally had erased the 18 1,2-minute segment-either accidentally or deliberately--and cautioned against making "premature judgements" about the case. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)--Deputy Energy Chief John Sawhill said Wednesday gasoline rationing coupons will be ready by the end of January, but the decision whether ot use them may be delayed until "a peak time of gas usage" next summer. He was optimistic the nation can avoid rationing. 
Student Union train to Sugar BoW'l encounters proble1ns 
by Fred Graver Staff Reporter 

"No one froze, no one starved, and everyone had fun." This was the way that Dave McCarthy, organizer for the Student nion train to New Orleans for the Sugar Bowl, described the eventful journey into the South. 
The trip was highlighted by stifling heat in the coacheds on the way down, freezing cold on the return, several unscheduled stops caused by freak accidents and late arrivals. 
Amtrak oversold the train so badly that it left Chicago with more than 100 passengers standing in the coaches and on the plat­forms. Enroute to New Orleans, the Panama Limited encountered unexpected and unique quirks of fate such as having to stop for forty-five minutes because of a false tug on the emergency brake and being forced to travel at ap­proximately ten miles per hour when a rock flew up from the track and shattered the headlight in the lead engine. Amtrak delivered its passengers more than 6 hours late in New Orleans. 
When asked about her ex­perience on the train, Jeanne Sliter 
The usual registration hassles were compounded Tuesday at St. Mary's when the former system 
was  changed  without  notice  to  
students.  
Confusion  stemmed  from  the  

fact that instructions which nor­mally appear in students' mailboxes the night before were not sent through campus mail and appeared on regustration desks instead. Registration was held in ­he basement of LeMans hall but only one sign in the LeMans lobby indicated the site. It has previously been held in LeMasn lobby and the Madaleva day student lounge. 
SMC Registrar Sister Francesca Kennedy said that it was her im­pression that students did not really pay any attention to the registration instructions so they were shortened and distributed to 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. SubS(riptions may be purchased for S8 per sem~ter ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
said, "I was very glad when it was over~ You should have called on the day I spent in the airport because I missed three flights." 
Keven Keane, also a passenger on the Panama Limited, rom­mented that "Amtrak blew it. It turned out to be a lot of fun, though. 
Everybody got along, the alumni and the students, and we turned into one big family." 
Another passenger to New Orleans, Tom McKenney said that if he had to do it agin, "I'd take the plane. But if I could do it this way, "I'd take the train. It was lots of fun." 
The return voyage offered all new thrills for the exhausted fans. The steam pipes were malfunc­tioning in New Orleans, which resulted in a two-hour delay there. They were not repaired, and a long stop in Memphis provided no relief in the freezing coaches. 
The food ran out, and the passengers were left to fend for themselves during the remaining 24 hours. The only comfort was found in supplies of beer, vodka, and whiskey which had been brought onto the train by some of the fans. 
One tour organizer called the conditions, "A reminder of the train scenes in Dr. Zhivago." 
A ten-dollar prize was offered to anyone composing a suitable song for the trip. Winners were Kevin O'Neill and John Voll for their anthem, sung to the tune of "I've been Working on the Railroad." 
As the train pulled into Chicago, the frustrated passengers released their aggressions in a massive pillow fight, which left the sleeping coach filled with feathers. A seat was also removed from the train.$ Dave McCarthy, reflecting on his role as organizer of the trip, siad that he would pr6bably not do it again if he had the chance next year. "I'd probably have a problem selling the trip with all the stories going around." 
"But this does have its ad­vantages," he continued, "seeing as you can'thave as much fun on a bus or plane. And anyway, most of the stories are somewhat over­dramatized." 
McCarthy has reported student dissatisfaction with train services to the Amtrak officials. 
One thing which everyone agreed on was the highlight of the trip -the Notre Dame victory over Alabama. 
Registration at SMC confusing 
students as they arrived. However, she said that in­structions would be mailed for spring preregistration if she discovered that it would prove more efficient. 
Sr. Kenedy added that spring 
1:00-10:00 -book exchange, student union, off-campus of­fice, Iafortune 
7:00,9:00,11:00pm-film, sometimes a great notion,knights of columbus, $1.00 7:00,lO:DOOpm -film, the getaway, pittsburgh club, $1.00, 
engineering auditorium 7:30pm -lecture,sr. maria assunta,carroll ha II, smc 7:30pm -charismatic renewal, introduction,butler bldg. 8:30pm -meeting, charismatic prayer meeting,holy cross hall 

f..l Foreign Car Parts Co. 
~)Parts & C!_Ccessories for imported car 
l\1 
for all makes at lowest preices
Aeaion•l 
Distributor 
"************************* 
:For NO Students, Faculty & Staff 10 * 
* percent discount with I D & pur-: :chase of $10 or more. * 
************************. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland So. Bend PHONE: 272-7187 
OBSERVER 

ADVERTISING 
CALL 


283-7471 
preregistration and grading willb e handled by a new Honeywell computer which should release grades more quickly an alleviate printout problems which appeared inthe past for students taking Notre Dame courses. 

the notre dame student union presents 

JONI MITCHELL 
with Tom Scott and the L. A. Express 
THIS MONDAY NIGHT at 8pm in the ACC 
Tickets are $5.50, 4.50 and 3.00 available at the ACC Ticket Office (Gate 100 and in the dining halls during the evening meal. 
MANY GOOD SEATS ARE STILL AVAILABLE 
"Her concerts are rare but worth waiting for." The New York Times 

Thursday, Janu'iiry 17, 1974 .. 
' • ~· i \' ·,., '!', . • .. •. • • e ;.; :.. ,, . , ' 
th~ ..ob.~~rv.er.,, 3. ~ 
Student suspended for parietals 
by Bill Sabin Staff Reporter that the student had felt that way, but that that was not 
to return this semester, but all credit for the work he
necessarily the case because of his position in the 
had done in the first semester would have been wipedA junidr from Dillon Hall was ,sus~n~ed last University. Many, including his roommate and one of out, He chose the other alternative claiming that he semester in mid-December because h1s grrlfnend had his "student defenders," felt that his candor with 
will be able to attend another college in the interim of allegedly stayed in his room with him over Macheca was his "undoing". his suspension to gain transferable credits, so he can Thanksgiving break. return next fall as a senior. Thus, he had to fly back to
]-board hears case Notre Dame again to take his finals for the first
Two offenses cited 
semester. Macheca, after hearing the student's side of the case, Macheca said he had tried to contact the student as 
According to John Macheca, dean of students, the gave him the option of having either the Judicial soon as he learned of the decision to alter the terms of student was charged with two offesnses: violating Board or Macheca himself decide upon appropriate the punishment, but he had already left for home. He parietals and violating "the University's rule on disciplinary action. He opted for the board because "I agreed that it was an inconvenience for him to have to human sexuality." figured I'd have a better chance with my fellow fly home and fly back again, saying "it was un­
His punishment, administered by the Judicial Board, students," he explained. fortunate." is a full semester's suspension,; disciplinary probation The Judicial Board composed of three students, two When he returned he was told that he would not be for the remainder of his stay at ND; a letter to his professors and one nun found him guilty of the two allowed to live on-campus. Macheca offered him a parents and sex-counselling from designated charges on December 12 and decided upon the punis~­place at his house, but he declined and stayed with authorities when he returns. ment. But this original decision, in regards to h1s friends off-campus. 
Unlike the woman in the Lewis Hall incident of last suspension, was different from what was later im-When questioned on whether the decision to alter the year, this student was not expelled. Macheca ex­posed. . . punishemnt came from above Macheca denied this and plained that this was due to certain aspects of the The original version called only for Immediate insist('d that the change was made because the Judicial student's personal convictions that warranted lesser suspension for the rest of the first semester (along with Board's decision was unenforceable. punishment. While Macheca would not elaborate, the three other aspects), instead of suspension for a full fellow students speculated that this was because the semester. Students react student had explained that he was planning to marry Under this ruling, the student was to leave the 
When news of the student's situation was learned,the woman in question. University at once, but was to be allowed to take X's in "people went wild" in Dillon Hall, according to an ex­The suspended student who lived on the second floor all his courses and make up his finals in January, so he roommate. "He was well-liked, and liked everybody. 
of Dillon Hall, related that on Saturday, November 24, would not lose credit for the work he had already done The reaction was spontaneous and natural," he said. 
as he and his girlfriend were leaving the hall to attend in the first semester. 
One student put up a sign saying "Fr. Burtchaell­a wedding, they passed Fr. Burtchaell in the stairwell He was advised by his two "student defenders," Please do not unlock my door and enter my room.
who reprimanded them. Dave Grimmer and Greg Smith, not to try to appeal the Thank you for your cooperation," and signed his name. 
case because of the relative leniency shown and the 
<Mter that, many others did the same.)
Burtchaell enters room fact that he had admitted his own "guilt". He agreed The rector of Dillon, Fr. David Schlaver, ordered the 
and flew home to Massachusetts the next day. 
janitors to remove the signs. 
According to Macheca later in the day, Burtchaell, who is also the third floor assistant rector, entered the Decision inoperativestudents locked room with his pass key. There he 
Phone calls recieved
discovered according to Macheca, "a double bed Mter he had returned home, he received a phone call made up o~ the floor, and a woman:s clo~ing _lying from Macheca informing him that the Judicial Board 
around." This warranted Burtchaell s notifiCation of had reached an inoperative decision, because, he said, Other reactions included a rash of obscene phone­
the matter to Macheca. they were over-stepping their jurisdiction in assigning calls to Macheca 's home in the middle of the night. "If Macheca defended Burtchaell's actions, saying, "He X's for his courses. The original decision had been sent people want to call up Macheca 's office and call him 
names that's one thing. But to bother his wife and kids would have been derelict in his duty to the University back to the Judicial Board, which decided that he was 
if he had not unlocked the door and entered." to be suspended for an entire semester instead. at home, that's another," said the studen's ex­
roommmate.
Macheca called the student into his office several This new decision meant that the suspended student days later. The student explained his position to. him had another option: he could have this suspension The suspended student is now attending in what he felt was a "man to man" and "confidential" applied to either his first semester or his second. Southeastern Massachusetts University and plans on 
conversation. Macheca yesterday expressed regret Had he chosen the first, he woud have been allowed returning to ND next year. 
Council to reconsider calendar 
by Gary Allietta session. President to convene an Academic from the four colleges and several Staff Reporter Ten members of the council Council Meeting as soon as organizations to plan a rebuttal tosigned the petition: James Frick, possible to formally reconsider the the proposed calendar for nextThe Academic Council will meet David Sparks, and William Liu of · proposed 1974 Fall Semester year. The major objection to theThursday, January 24 to formally the administration; Don Linger, Calendar." 
calendar is the scheduled startreconsider the proposed 1974-75 Walter Nicgorski, Arther Quigley, The Executive Committee of the before Labor Day.
academic calendar. The meeting James Robinson, Mario Picconi, council will meet this afternoon One of he representatives saidwas scheduled after Chris Nedeau, and Robert Williamson of he 
· principally to discuss the 
that it would take "only a fewstudent academic affairs com­faculty; and Chris Nedeau for the academic calendar and also to hours" to revise t!1e calendar tomissioner, presented a petition to students. The petition dated 
decide on other items for the 
meet student wishes whileUniversity Provost Fr. James December 5, 1973, read as follows: council meeting next week. 
retaining the same number of in­Burtchaell requesting the special "As members of the Academic 
Last evening, Nedeau met with 
class days.
Council, we do hereby request the 10 other student representatives 
Nedeau noted the reason for the change was that the majority of the students did not like the new setup. "The Academic Council has 
White House admits 
to be responsible to University wishes ... or what good is it?" he added. 
The group also brought up other 
assisting in Ford speech 
matters which they felt Nedeau Washington <UPI) should mention at today's meeting. 
Chris Nedeau: "The

Among them were add-drop and
The White House acknowledged a "coalition of groups like the AFL-Academic Council has to be
pass-fail policies, the "semester at
Wednesday that President CIO, the Americans for shaped the draft in his own word-responsible to University
another school" option, and
Nixon'sspeechwriters helped Vice Democratic Action and other s." wishes .•• or what good is it?"
dropping the minus from grading.
President Gerald Ford prepare a powerful pressure organizations" Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Tex., said speech delivered Tuesay accusing were waging a massive Wednesday Ford's speech "is not Watergate critics of plotting propaganda campaign against a positive step towards restoring Nixon's downfall. Nixon aimed at supplanting the public confidence in the leadership 
South Bend to honor 
"Our White House speechwriters policies endorsed overwhelming of our nation. It only seeks to did assist the vice president's staff by the voters in 1972.-divide the American people." in formulating ideas he wanted to Referring to the help provided by "Mf. Ford's attitude -and the 

Irish football team
put across in his speech." Deputy Nixon's speechwriters, Warren attitude of other Republican Press Secretary Gerald Warrent said "we only do it at the request of spokesmen who echoed his par-South Bend community leaders include Governor Otis Bowen, Rev. said. Warren had told newsmen the vice president." tisan line-simply is not responsible are planning an hour-long "Salute Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Tuesday that the Speech, delivered He said the White House has and not becomeing the role· the to the Champions" rally honoring president of Notre Dame; Rev. before the American Farm never attempted to dictate Ford's American people had hoped he the University of Notre Dame Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Bureay Federation in Atlantic public utterances and his speeches would play as their new vice football team in the Athletic and executive vice president, and City, N.J., was entirely Ford's do not have to be cleared by the president," Bentsen said. Convocation Center at 3p.m. this Edward Krause, athletic director. work. But after checking further, White House. Drafts of speeches "Now it appears that the Vice Sunday. Also scheduled to be recognized he volunteered the information have been submitted to Ford's President has willingly accepted Coach Ara Parseghian will serve at the event are the state football that Ford had received White staff and then given to the vice the White House role assigned to as master of ceremonies and in-championship teams from House help. president for his own editing, him as a divisive political foil. In troduce members of the Fighting Wahington High School of South Ford's remarks were in-Warren said. his Farm Bureay speech, Mr. Ford Irish team that defeated Alabama Bend, Marian High in Mishawaka, terpreted widely as signaling a "After the vice president clearly adopted Agnew-like tac-in the Sugar Bowl. Also par-state golf champions from Adams new. White House counter -of-finishes his work on the~. he goes tics, and has hinlself injected ticipating will be yhe Notre Dame High School, the Marlin Swim 


fens1ve on Watergate. ahead and makes them. he ad-rancor and partisanship into the band and cheerleaders. team, and the state volleyball The vice president c~~~~~ed th~~-.c;ieq.. ~~In every case, he a~~~~~. WJlJ~TJWt~ ~~~e,:: ••. •,,. • • • •.,..,. .f!op.pf~ ~~~~t~ ,a,t,t~e raJJ,y. will . ·champions from ·Marian.-. . . --­
•""• -' ·~ '• ~•r ,., '~ ,, •r _.-.• " ' • 'f ? * """'-'•. t f t t I • 1 't I W• t. • .. • e. -'" • .._ ... ~ ~ 
-------~---~---~­
Thursday, JantJary 17, 1974
the observer 
I. 


SU establishes book exchange 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 

Brian Hegarty believes he has established the machinery to keep down those big book bills which beset penny-conscious students during the opening week of every semester. The student Union Book Exchange established by Hegarty and Student Union Services Commission will serve as a clearing house for buying and selling used books. 
"I think the Student Union Services Commission has a real nice service here," said Hegarty, "That sure beats all the signs and telephone num hers plastered all over the walls advertising bargains upon bargains for used books." 
According to Hegarty the Book exchange's best selling poin is that it offers a central location for the buying and selling of books. The Student Union has set up shop in the Off-Campus Office of LaFortune) just down the stairs from the building's south en­trance) and is using the site to sell students' old books for them. 
The general procedure is sim­ple: students who want the Student Union to sell their books are to write their names and the selling price of the books inside the covers and then bring the books to the Off­Campus Office. Students wishing to buy books may come to the office anytime it is open to see if their needed books are available. If a buyer finds a book he wants at an attractive price, he purchases it from the Student Union. 

Then, on Monday and Tuesday nights, all of the sellers can pick up their money and any unsold books from 6 until 10:00 p.m. Books which are not picked up during those hours will become the property of the Student Union. 
The members of the Services Commission who are running the Book Exchange are offering their time free of charge. If a book is sold, its previous owner receives the entire cash amount; the Student Union receives no com­mission whatsoever. 
"Our reward will be seeing that the Exchange is a tremendous success," Hegarty said. "Its been successful at other schools so we hope it wlill be effective here as well." 
The Exchange should reach its peak of activity on Friday and Sunday. The hours the exchange will be in operation are as follows: 
Thursday, Januaryl71 tolOp.m. 
Friday, January 18 I to 5 p.m. 

Sunday, January 20 I to 10 p.m. 
Rationing coupons to be prin,ted 
by Robert F. Buckhorn 

WASHINGTON (UPI)-Deputy Energy Chief John Sawhill said Wednesday gasoline rationing coupons will be ready by the end of January, but the decision whether to use them may be delayed until "a peak time of gas usage" next summer. 
Obviously optimistic that the nation can avoid rationing, Sawhill outlined more details of the governments standby rationing plan at a news briefing. 
He said 1.6 billion ratinging coupons will be printed and placed in storage by the end of the month and the entire standby system will be ready for possible im­plementation by March 1. But he added: 
"It is more likely the plan would go into effect in the summer at a time of peak gas usage... if gasoline demand mounts in the summer, there will be more pressure to bring on the ration9ing plan. 
"Our view on rationing is un­changed. We still consider it to be a last resort." 
He said the nation can get through the energy pinch without rationing if American drivers continue to save gasoline and if domestic refining holds up. There also will be enough heating oil, he added if most Americans keep their thermostats 6 degrees lower than last year and unless the weather turns severely cold. 
An improvement in the enrgy situation is necessary to avoid rationing, Sawhill said, "and we're getting an improvement." 
He said employees of the Federal Energy Office (FEO) are trying to set up the mechanics of· the standby rationing system in discussions with representatives of the states, post offices and banks. He estimated there are 123 million licensed drivers who would be eligivle for coupons. The rationing system will classigy drivers' needs region by region, largely on the basis of the availability of mass transit, he added. Sawhill said rural areas would get the best break along with urban areas having little or not mass transit. He said urban areas with moderate transit would get 90 per cent of the maximum and areas with good transit, 80 per cent. 
Among cities in the 100 per cent category were Dallas, Cincinnati, Detroit, Los Angeles and San Diego. The 90 per cent class in­cluded Wahsington, D.C., Cleveland, Pittsburgh and Miami. The 80 per cent category included New York, Baltimore, Atlanta, Chicago, Boston, New Orleans and Philadelphia. 
Assuming a gasoline shortage of 800,000 barrels a day or 11 per cent, Sawhill said, Los Angeles drivers might get 49 gallons a month, Wahington 44 and Boston 40. 
In other energy-related developments: -John Schaefer, who helped draft the FEO allocation program an­nounced Tuesday, told major oil company representatives in a meeting at the Interior Depart­ment that price controls soon will be removed from aviation and ocean ship fuels for international transporation. 
--Energy expert Martin Lobel, an attorney and former aide to Sen. William Proxmire, D-Wis., told a House subcommittee the oil industry "uses every legal device to keep accurate and relevant information" from Congress. But Exxon Vice President W. T. Slick Jr. testified the industry would welcome a government-sponsored system to collect energy data. 
--Administrator Russell E. Train of the Environmental Protection Agency said he will seek legislation to force the auto in­dustry to build cars that use less gasoline, though taxation of heavy abd gigh powered cars. 
-Energy chief William E. Simon said Detroit is retooling to make small cars because American drivers have decid3d "they are not going to buy those gas eaters any longer." His statement coincided with a report showing U.S. auto sales dropped 27 per cent in the first 10 days of 1974. 
--The Wilderness Society, allowed a deadline to pass without 
the pittsburgh club presents 
THE GETAWAY 
Ali MacGraw/Steve McQueen 
TONIGHT 
Engineering Auditorium 
7 & 1 Opm $1, members 50' 
( .... '.'.•.·.'.".~ .. ' ...... ,' 1, -~ ....
\ '"' .. \"' ­
,__ ............... .
~----­
~ 
raising a new constitutional challenge to construction of the Alaska oil pipeline. A spokesman for the environmental group, whose court suit originally delayed the project, said it could find no basis for challenge under a new law passed by Congress. 
--The National Clean Air Coalition said some provisions of the pending emergency energy bill in Congress constitute "nothing more than a black lung program for American cities." It urged Congress to knock out a section allowing plants to burn high sulphur cola. 
-Massachusetts Gov. Francis W. Sargent, testigying before a Sentate subcommittee, called for public regualtion ''or, if necessary, public ownership" of the Jlla&n's oil companies. 

K E G s 

--Eight members of Congress charged the administration has acquiesced in "extortion" of the American consumer by major oil companeis and called for a 90-day freeze on dom{lstic crude oil and products prices. 
--The American Automobile Association said a survey of 2,331 gasoline stations across the nation showed a 15 per cent were staying open part of the day on Sundays and only 17 per cent were limiting purchases. 


TAEKWONDO 
to old members: First class starts Friday Jan. 18 in Gym 4 of ACC 
CONTACT PRESIDENT, Andrew at 3275. 
From Dong Sik Kim(head instructor) 



KEGS 
Now you can buy kegs of beer at the Library Carry-out for the same price charged by wholesale distributors! 
All the popular brands are available complete with keg 'supplies (Keg Kaddies pumps ice and cups.) 
,,-,,-,•••·,·,•,"'"' .......~ .. Ill .. ~.-....... ,.~
. .. ' 

. ________ ........ -------------------------'"'-"" ' 
NO NEED TO CALL AHEAD 
~\t~\S 
7 
···-&311~··· 
Carry-out 
1003 Notre Dame Ave. 11: 15am to 12:30am 
~~~~~-----------------------------.;.;.;.;.._... 
. ~ •' . i ' .. ; . . . . f • 
Thursday, JanuarY 17, 1974 the observer.··· 

Priorities group submits report 
A Committee on University , growth is imper~tive for survival. Priorities, formed by the The r~port predicts a~ end to ~he University of Notre Dame massive . construction which
15 

months ago to study future charactenzed the last two d~ades directions of the institution, has on campus and fav?rs routing all submitted its report to Rev. unrestncted funds i~ ~d~wn1ent. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Enrollment--Stabihzahon of president of the University. undergraduate enrollm~nt at the 
Among its highest priorities, the present level of 6,600 Is recom­Committee lists continuance of the mend~d_, an~ greater enrollment University's commitment to selectivity iS advocted for ad­freedom of inquiry and thought, a· vanced ~tudents. Th~ report calls faculty and student affairs staff for special efforts to.,afeguard the among whom committed Catholic enrollment level of the two smaller predominate, and the !lighestt. und_erg_rauate . colleges, priority for endownment in the ~ngmeermg and Sc~ence, and to allocation of unrestricted income. mcrease the proporti?n of women 
The 16,000-word reprot also calls and _members o~ disadvantaged for increased emphasis on the ethmc . groups . m the stud~nt improvement of teaching; more population. ~ontm~ed co?perati_ve support for a library collection progr?ms With neig_hbon~g Samt endangered by inflation; an em-Marys College mcludmg the phasis on quality rather than ~tudent exchange program begun quantity in the enrollment of i~ 1965, a;e recommen~ed. The graduate and professional 1 eport, pomts out that if Notre programs, and the elimination of Dame s un~ergraduate female over-crowding in the ·residence enrollment mc~eases to 1,5_00 by halls, as well as study of how the 1976, the combmed populati?n of halls might play more of an ex-women on both·campuse.s will be plicit educational role. clos~ to 3,000, W~ich ap­
proximateds the 3:5 national ratio Summary of the report's major of women to men in universities. chapters: "Any further increment in the enrollment of women will then be 
Catholic Character--The report determined in the light of several strongly reaffirms the religious variables, among them residence character of the University, notmg capacity, the volume of ap­that its "highest and also its most plications,-relative enrollment in distinctive priority is to un­specific colleges and the extent fo derstand and to adhere to its cooperation with St. Mary's" the 
evolving Catholic character. To report asserts. survive without its unique place in Residentiality-The report notes the minds of believers, and that this traditional strenght of without its Catholic witness in the Notre Dame is <'evident, with more larger pluralistic society, would than one;fifth of the un­not be to survive as Notre dergraduate student body now Dame."While acknowledging the living off-campus, but conceds that 
contribution of those scholars of "large outlays of money" would be other religious faith or of none who needed to provide new residence "abide here because they lead halls. It urges an end to presentlives of inquiry which include a overcrowding in some residence sensitivity to and respect for the halls as well as exploration of wayscommitment to investigate the in which education! progarms can moral realm," the committee be estableshed in the halls under urges that those concerned with the leadership of the rectors with 
faculty recruitment "exercise care the assistance of the faculty and to attract and appoint from the residence hall staffs. most competent teachers, scholars and scientists available those who Academic Disciplines--The are articulate believers." The report stresses interdisciplinary report also recommends "that collaboration in curriculum, appointments to the faculty and teaching and research. It does not staff continue to be offered by single out programs which might preference to competent members 'be discontinued, but offers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, guidelines for such review and whose contribution to the evaluation by already existing University is a special guarantee academic and admisistrative of its Catholic character." (the bodies. It asks for more sensitivity Congregation, which founded the towards international con-University in 1842, transferred sidera tions--expecially Third governance to a predominately lay World countries--in planning board of trustees in 1967.) courses of study and endorses 
internships and out­
Finances-Against a background side-the-classroom experiences as of higher education's costs rising adjuncts to more familiar learning faster that its income, the report patterns. While new programs notes favorably Notre Dame's which ·mold traditional academic recent sucdcess in eliminating fields into interdisciplinary budget deficits, but it warns that, courses of study are encouraged, because of cutbacks in federal the overall. taone of the report is on grants and the declining per­"consolidation of our know suc­centage of operating income met cesses" rather than on new by tuition increases, endowment educational programs. 
RUGBY CLUB 
Ireland Raffle Drawing 
TONIGHT at NICKlES 
also: ND-BAMA BEER MUGS 
on sale.fG>r· ~2,5.0 •••••• : •• '. ~ ~ •. 
Teaching and Research--An emphasis on teaching, both in developing and evaluating faculty and in training J graduate stude!lts. is evident in the report. The importance of research ex­pecially as a requisite f~r a university (as opposed to a college), is also underlined, with stress on the importance of faculty initiative in seeking subvention of research in a day when outside Sf)Urces of support: are 
dwindling. 
Advanced Studies-The high cost of post-baccalaureate studies "can be justified by the quality of faculty they attract and develop and by the few levels of un­derstanding attained in research. and scholarship," the report says. In a time when cutbacks in government grants have crimped advanced studies, Notre Dame is in a comparatively good position, according to the report, since it has 
not . been as dependent as many universities on outside subsidies. However, the level of its basic stipend to graduate students is lagging as pressure grows on in­ternal resources. Future emphasis will be on improvement of quality, both in enrollment and in academic programs. The report's "most urgent advice" is for 
·periodic reviews of advanced studies programs by apnesl drawn form outside the University. These reviews would follow depart­mental self-studies. Development of a 10-year plan for the Summer Session, where enrollment has stabilized after decreasing durnig the last decade and where the trend is toward non-degree con­
tinuing education programs, is also ·recommended. 
Library-Inflation has crippled the purchasing • power of the University's libraries to the point where membership among 
the 84 academic libraries belonging to the Association of Research Libraries is threatened, according to the committee. The report urges am in­crease in the Library's budget and the establishment of a sup­plemental endowment specifically restricted to the purchase of book­
. periodicals and related learning materials. 
Auxiliary Enterprises--The committee voted to establish itself later as a task force to study the nonacademic endeavors of the University, such as the Athletic a~d ~onvocation _Center and the athletics recieves _ 
endorsem~nt in the report, with a strong remmder that Notre Dame is "in a unique position to be a leader in the ethics of organizedsport." 
Physical Environment-With the 
shift  from  new  con­ 
struction to  renovation  and  
preventive  maintenance  the  

committee recommends better long-range planning to meet the physical needs of the University. It underscores the necessity of continuing maintenance, an area where its report now finds understaffing and other inadequacies. 
Computing Center-"Ww have found a general uneasiness and concern for the total cost all computing on campus, for the 

~ichiana Telecastmg Corporation, :proper , configuration and m ord~r ''to make recom-'capacity of n1achines in relation to mend_a tlons ~oncerning their ·instructional, research and ad­p:opne_ty, their continuance or ministrative needs, and not least, discontm.uance, and the possibility for the apparently un­of . sta~.tmg new enter-planned: and uncontrolled 
pnses. Intercolle~iate 
(continued on page 13) 







Love tap. 
From one beer lover to another. 


··,.the observer ·' ·Thursday/:li~nu'arv "1),' 1974 
0-C students victims of crime 
by Terry Keeney Staff Reporter 

Jim Callahan, a senior management major returned to his off-campus home on St. Lawrence St. September 4 this year a week after he had finished moving in. He unlocked the front door to find a television, beanbag chairs and end tables missing. In the kitchen Callahan discovered the screen door slashed and jammed. He immediately phoned the police who arrived 15 minutes later. Their estimate of the total stolen property: $720. 
Fred Ruekert, a senior from Waukesha, Wisconsin, left his apartment in the 800 block of Notre Dame Ave. One Friday night last September. He was walking a girl down Notre Dame Ave. toward Holy Cross Nursing School when four or five youths approached from behind and darted past him. Only after seconds had elapsed did he realize that he and his girlfriend had been victimized by purse­snatchers. 
On the day before Thanksgiving Jean LeFloc'h was asleep upstairs at his house on St. Louis Blvd. When he awoke at 5 p.m. he discovered that someone had broken into his house through the back door and stolen his housemate's stereo and speakers. 
In moving off campus the Notre Dame student must confront crime in his own neighborhood. He must face the possibility of robbery, burglary and even assault on a daily basis. Although these two incidents are somewhat isolated, they form part of a larger problem of off campus crime. 
The problem of crime is both extensive and intensive, both serious and widespread. Police reports indicate that city-wide robbery and larceny aremuch higher this year. These increases are evident in crimes affecting off­campus students. For example, on a single weekend (Nov. 2-4) the South Bend Tribune reported that three students had been victimized by robbery. The stolen items in­cluded a stereo, a tape deck, speakers, a car tape player, tapes andna motorcycle. The estimated total cost of the stolen property approached $1400. 
Student vulnerability 

The student living in a given neighborhood poses unique problems to the police. For unlike the permanent dweller the student has a greater vulnerability to cimre. According to Donald Foy, chief of the Uniform Division of the South Bend Police Department, the student fits into a nation-wide category of higher crime vulnerability, especially robbery. 
"Anytime you get into an area of 

a lot of rentals and transit people, 
your burglary rate-larceny rate is 
largely higher," said Foy. 
Because the pattern of daily student life is quite predictable, prospective burglars _can easily learn when no one will be at home. Since some off-campus students complain that they have been robbed by people in the neigh­borhood, some off-campus houses can be burglarized while students are at classes. 

Kevin Smith, a junior living on Wayne Ave., voiced this com­plaint. "Once you've been tagged as a student, you're pretty well set up. They'll just come in and grab you," he said. 
Jim Callahan has been plagued all semester by phone calls in the middle of the night. When he picked up the receiver each time, there was no reply on the other end. Callahan believes someone in his neighborhood was trying to determine whether he was in the house. "Somehow, someone has tied together the address and phone number and the student situation," he speculated. 
For Chief Foy the fact that students are often on foot causes particular problems for his force. His patrol teams must protect students traveling on roads to and from neighborhood night spots. Unless the students travel in groups, the possibility oof assault is real. "It's rare when two in­dividuals are attacked," Foy explained. 
Crime and the Neighborhood 

The extent to which a student experiences crime depends largely on the neighborhood he inhabits. If the neighborhood is run-down, if it is poor, if there are few students and if there is racial tension in the neighborhood, then the crime rate most likely •.viii be higher. 
The South Bend Police Depart­ment divides the city into 12 distrcits. These districts deter­mine the beats and patrols of uniform officers. Chief Foy reports that the area of South Bend with the single highest crime rate is the area bounded by Lincolnway West on the north, Western Ave. on the South, Williams on the east and Olive on the west. 
Some students do live in this area. They risk the high crime rate for economic reasons: the rents are low. Yet at least one household is living in "extreme paranoia" because of the threatened crime. "You're always afraid of who the hell will come bopping in," one resident ex­plained. 
This student related his ex­periences in the neighborhood: eh­was surrounded and almost assaulted by four or five black youths several doors from his house; a brick was thrown into his housemate's car shattering the window; one night he awoke to see a house across the street surrounded by 16 policemen with shotguns. 
But this student considered himself lucky his house has not been victimized. Although crime has not struck his household, the fear of crime certainly has. "We've had no direct robbery as such," he observed. "But we're afraid it could be us next. We've seriously considered moving out for second semester." 
SMC Social Commission presents  
PETE & TILLIE  
Saturday, January 19 O'Laughlin Auditorium  
~ I  7:00pm 9:00pm 0Admission$1 ° 

"We decided if they did hold you up," he continued, "don't try to stop them. Just let them take what they want." 
The neighborhood holds a par­ticular problem for students who are white--the area if predominantly black. The problems this student faced are racial in nature. "It's really a racial problem," he affirmed. 
According to police reports, the second wm·st crime area is near Keasey and Ohio Streets. Although this area is quite distant from campus, students live here too. One off-campus senior had $725 worth of stereo equipment stolen from his house on Keasey St. in early November. 
Crime near ND Ave. 
Yet the area around Notre name Ave. and Corby St. does not have an exceptionally high crime rate, police reports indicate. In this area highly populated by students, some students have been hit hard by burglary and robbery, some have not. Richard Derr of 605 N. St. Peter is among the unlucky. 
"St. Peter St. is not that bad a street, but the house has really been hit hard," said Derr. "I haven't heard of that many people getting ripped off." 
In the first semester alone, Derr's house has lost three bicycles, four speakers, a tape player and 14 tapes to robbery. Sometimes he wonders why his home has seemingly been singled out for robbery. "I guess they go back to the well," he explained. "If they steal from one place, they just keep going back." 
Callahan blames the area itself for being conducive to crime. He said that driving fown Notre' Dame Ave. from campus, "once you get past Napoleon, the neighborhood starts to decline. It's typical of most student neighborhoods." 

He pointed out several reasons why his house was particularly vulnerable to burglary. First, it is "off the beaten path" on a side street off Notre Dame Ave. Second, the house itself is isolated from neighborhing homes, in­cluding other student houses. Third, neighbors (of whom he suspects someone burglarized his house) know that he is a student. 
"I don't know if you can say it's a high crime area or not," Callahan noted. But each time he leaves his home "we're always worried, 'Will all of our belongings be there when we get back?." 
Along Notre Dame Ave. the purse-snatching that happened to Fred Ruekert's girlfriend is not unusual. He reported at least one other purse-snatching in front of Corby's. It was such a common occurence that there was nothing the police could do about it," Ruekert noted.s 
Mike Neubert of St. Louis Blvd. not only had his stereo stolen while his roommate slept, but also lost his dog through robbery. His house haxz been hit so hard there are no valuables left in his house. 
"There's nothing in the house worth stealing except for some books," he said. "They've taken everything else." 
Kerry Powers, a senior living in the 900 block of Notre Dame Ave., 
reported little crime in his neigh­borhood. Except for a burglary before the school year began, Powers' house has gone unscathed. He was quick to point out that one 
reason  for  the  absence  of  
widespread  crime  is  the  large  
student population.  "Around here  

we're not really concerned with people breaking in," Powers concluded. 
Police Protection 
"Maybe it was my imagination," said Ruekert, "but there seem to be more police cars patrolling Notre Dame Ave." 
Indeed, Ruekert's observation was confirmed by Chief Foy of the South Bend Police. According to Foy, new patrols were added last May on a periodic basis to patrol the Notre Dame Ave. and Corby St. area. For example, on Tuesday night December 4 ten extra two­man foot patrol teams combed the area. 
"This is the overtime foot patrol we instituted last May," Foy ex­plained. "They have been there off and on scince school started." 
Foy reported that the police patrol of the area is always in­creased on Notre Dame football weekends. "We always increase our squad car patrol every 
(continued on page 12) 


f'irttfOIIt 
Tires 

GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 

HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
. ...........,..
~ 

~--------­
--------------~ 



~
... 

---~ 
, 
~
• 

' , ~ j 
~ 
J 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
Dan Barrett Executive Editor 

NEWS: 283-1715 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 John Kloos 
BUSI"'t:SS! ?A1-7471 Advertis~ng. Manager 
Thursday, January 17, 1974 
fram l:he editar!s desk 
The Papal Choice 
Many words have already been written about Notre Dame's unbelievable victory in the Sugar Bowl on New Year's Eve. Writers across the country have called it the game of the year, others went so far as to call it a game for the ages. Sheets and sheets of copy paper have replayed the third down pass from Tom Clements to Robin Weber while sports pages everywhere have been covered with reams of words about freshman Al Hunter and his blazing speed. 
The entire team has received plaudits from every corner but perhaps most importantly, they brought home with them the national championship--the first unanimous national championship during Coach Ara Parseghian's reign as mentor. 
The team's accomplishments brought an incredible sense of pride to everyone who is in any way connected with this school­if even only in spirit. 
Football is often degraded for receiving too much attention at Notre Dame, but in these days it is nearly impossible not to be proud of the accomplishment of these athletes. They represented Notre Dame on the field and brought home not only a national championship, but pride and recognition. From the student of Notre Dame comes a sincere thank you. 
But everyone can show their thanks in another respect. Sunday afternoon at the ACC, the city of South Bend and the university are sponsoring a tribute to the Fighting Irish football team in honor of 
r---~ 
their national championship. It 
seems ridiculous to urge anyone to attend because it's obvious that everyone will. New Orleans 
The city of New Orleans was something 
else and the Notre Dame Club of that city 
should be congratulated for their 
organization and aid to the students and 
alumni. With the securing of 
headquarters in the Marriott Hotel, they 
offered a gathering spot and an 
organization center for all Notre Dame 
people in the city. 
Yet at the same time, in some respects they ripped-off the people there, par­ticularly the students, with the prices they charged for some of their activities. Granted, their overhead was probably high in the Marriott, but $5 for a cold chicken dinner in a basket is a little bit much to charge students who came to New Orleans on a shoestring. 
Amtrak A real example of the spirit of the Irish who went south has got to be the results of the train trip to the Sugar Bowl. Beset with terrible conditions, the trip resulted in, as one source put it, a real example of how students and alumni can get along. Both groups suffered under the bad conditions and managed somehow to retain their spirits. It was a great idea and it's a shame that the bad equipment of Amtrak served to disrupt it. Jerry Lutkus 
-------.... -----------­
' 


l 

I
'.i
. l 

IJUST CAN'T 

:r PHON&O IJP AH&AO AN[) 1{}/,/) 1HE &V6R.YON£ A6REES 'PUAS/3 G&1 6f/6 IP MH A PROfES­YOV'R.E JVST II/HAT We GAS MASK ANP ';, S/ONAL PROTESTER. NEE{) TO 6£1 Ol/R. ARM /JAN{) fROM 
• ·•. 1HEY WENT BANANAS/ PROTEST OR6ANIZEP. 
11111WIAT&tY. STOP. 1H& REWti!TION t!Vt'S." 
ArrU~%~ ~~
ll 
Crasslakes 
January, 1974 

l las•ph abell 
It's dark as I leave. 
The car sags a little where we had packed it so heavily, the dirty yellow fenders hanging over the back wheels. Suitcases and mangled boxes peered from under a trunk lid that had to be tied down with a last-minute, mangy piece of twine. Even the back seat bulged with loot too valuable to leave behind. 
I sit before the dials, not really feeling anything as the speedometer began its slow climb, recording its progress on an indifferent odomter. 
My travelling companions, faceless in the early morning shadows, mumble complaints and exchange remarks that shomehow sound as if from the other end of a tunnel. Or maybe it's my thoughts that wander that tunnel, an endless one with many branchings of familiarity. 
One of them is of a church lawn, green with the blessings of an early spring sometime before the incident of '63. Four or five youngsters, fresh from dismissal in the late afternoon, are soiling school uniforms with the ever-transferable green of thegrass.One boy in particular has longstreaksof telltale green that seem to be everywhere but the light yellow top of his head. The group cavorts in the warm weather, their jackets discarded long ago, slapping each other's bodies with the abandon and innocence that earmarked that time of life. They laugh. Yes, that's what counts. 
Another is bright sunlight attacking the windows of a large room. An old console black-and-white television dominates one corner of the room and various-eolored chairs and couches with end tables stand along the walls like a wagon train forming a circle for the night. There's a fireplace, of course, complete with grey stones and a new set of fire-ready tools standing proudly to one side. The rug isn't full; instead it's a large oval with concentric rings of all colors leading to a black center. Set around the room is every kind of table imaginable: card tables, small tables, and all have some sort of game set up: here, Monopoly; there, Chutes and Ladders; over there, Easy Money; over here, Old Maid. A boy about eight, his head covered with blond prickles of a fashionable crewcut, looks over the room. He smiles; grandmother will soon be here and he loved to play with her. 
Still another branching shows a dark corridor lined with light brown half-lockers. Their chrome latches and black combination dials demand attention in the otherwise bland expanse of the wall. A gangling youth stands before one of the lockers, trying to push dog­eared books andpapersinto its tiny depth. The grocery-sack covers on the books tell many things: unknown telephone numbers, assorted artistic strivings and assigned page numbers among others. The youth looks down the hall to an opened door as the last of the books joins its comrades. The early afternoon sun casts a glare on the checked floor around the door, but that makes no difference; he can still see the animated gestures of a teacher's enthusiasm. He knows he's late, but it really doesn't matter; the teacher likes him. He grins and shuts the locker. 
The ammeter flickers, calling me from the tunnel with its insistent silent cry of warning. Knowing the nuances of the car, I ignore it and simplywatch the hood swallow white dashes on the road. 
A heavy fog surrounds us as we go over final loop of highway, severing the car from the influence of city streets. I look in the rear­view mirror and see an amorphous, dim glow_ Suddenly the fog lifts around us and stars clutch the night sky with a tenacity rivaling a college senior clutching fading memories. I look in the mirror again and the glow persists in its claim that nothing exists back there. I look ahead again . 
Barbra Streisand gently whispers from stereo speakers. So it's the laughter we will remember, when we remember... 
Was there something in the middle of that glow in the fog? Was there something that will always be there, somewhere? Probably. 
I feel a drop of rain on the hand limply resting on my lap. Leaning forward, I reach ~or the window knob, wondering what happened to the 
forecastof clearing. But when I peer out the window, there's no rain­clouds or slick pavement. Only the bleak Texas grasslands, rushing back the way I came. 
daanesbury garry tn.d,au 
the observer 

Night Editor: Albert D'Antonio Ass't Night Editor: Rick Blower Day Editor: Jack Kelly Copyreader: Terry Keeney Compugraphic: Tom Wich Pictures: Jerome Phillips Typists: Howard Halle, Robert Steinmetz, Barb Norcross Night Controllers: Joe Abell, Carolina Special Visitor From the Past: Jim E. Brogan 
w 

Thursday, January 17, 1974 the observer 
9 
•

Knevel a1ms for community spirit 
•

1n LaFortune renovation plans 
by terry keeney 
For Ken Kneve1 the completion of the­Knevel noted. Indeed much of the success of ministrators oppose the community input. LaFortune Renovation would mean more student input can be credited to Knevel. For They insist on making LaFortune a than just a physical improvement of a it was Knevel who convinced the committee restaurant. "The people n the decision­campus building. It would mean more than that student architects should work on the making power are ignoring the com­just the personal satisfaction of completing project. munity," Knevel charged. a task already two years in the making. For "We've got the talent on this university. Knevel has had trouble with the architects Knevel the completion of the LaFortune Let's use it," said Knevel. Knevel has in convincing them of valid student and project em bodies a victory for the sense of coordinated the input of various groups on community input. The Ellerbe Archetects community at Notre Dame. campus, especially classes that concern are too distant from campus to establish a 
Knevel a fifth year architecture student themselves with the LaFortune issue. He "good working relationship." Meetingsfrom We~t Lafayette, Indiana, has directed pointed out that a group of marketing between Knevel and the firm are brief and the LaFortune Renovation Committee for students this semester submitted a 30-page few, especially on the proposed pub in the two years. And for two years he as tried to paper on LaFortune, while an industrial LaFortune basement. persuade faculty, administrators and even design class practiced designs on the mall "We would have some ideas about the the Board of Trustees that a community­area near LaFortune. pub,"Knevelsaid "We woula-talk to them. 
initiated project like LaFortune can work. Knevel favors such classroom projects Then they would go back to Minnesota. Knevel sees his role more modestly. "I that can benefit the university community. Then they come back and we tell them we don't like their plans." Knevel favors working with a local ar­
solutions to problems can come when "people 
chitecture firm which would be more sens­itive to the ideas of the Notre Dame who aren't members of the community. .. community. "The whole idea is not just the Notre Dame framework. I don't think so far
correctly interpret what the students want" 
Ellerbe _has felt out what the community 
wants," Knevel noted. The solution can was just in the position to promote the first In fact, his desire to combine the academic come when "people who aren't members of 
­specific action on the feeling that the and the practical partially motivated the the community come in and correctly in­community. must contribute," he ex­LaFortune project. "Instead of doing a terpret what students want." plained. "We are using that feeling to get regular academic project, I could do In spite of all the difficulties Knevel LaFortune done." something that could have results," said remains quite optimistic about the 
Knevel believes that if true community is Knevel. LaFortune renovation. What sold the Board He cited a part of the COUP report that ever to come to Notre Dame, projects that Although the LaFortune Committee has of Trustees on the LaFortune project, coincides with his own philosophy. The affect the entire university must include been successful in soliciting community Knevel believes, is the notion of community. report states: "There are qualified persons input from the community, especially the input, the Administration has not. Knevel It is this same notion which he hopes will on this campus who would gladly give their students. He complains_ that students were blames the university administration for sell the University officials on the idea. advice and use their talents to help the 
not consulted in the past about such hampering the LaFortune project. He quickly points out hat the recently University in finding economical solutions university additions as the Memorial "It is the responsibility of the Officers of released report of the Committee on to its practical problems of buildings and Library and the Towers. No attempt was the University to seek out what the com­University Priorities <COUP) emphasizes grounds." ever made to determine whether the com­munity wants," Knevel contended. "In the the importance of community input. That Whether the University will follow the munity wanted that style of architecture. past that hasn't been the policy. They've the COUP report could reach the same counsel of the Priorities Committee is the 
The LaFortune Committee has tried to had the father attitude of 'I know what you conclusion as the LaFortune Committee questio Knevel asks himself. If it does not obtain community input. "We went to want."' encourages Knevel: "You just get the sense Ken Knevel is prepared to continue his everybody to get community input. We left Although the committee has followed the that the time has come for this thing to come effort to convince the University Officers of the channels open to any group on campus," advice of the Administration, certain ad-off properly." the necessity to listen to its community. 

the unmentionable topic 
a comment by fr. bill toohey 
Suicide is a subject we hate to think about, come from self-scrutiny but as a gift from repulsive and offensive to accept our in­it is true is because he thinks so. As the
find most difficult to talk about. It happened others. Our treatment of one another in­dividuality; but deep inside we realize that contemporary poster puts it: "Don'tthis past summer to a former Notre Dame dicates to them their personal value. Not so rejection of ourselves is self-inflicted devalue yourself-·emember, God doesn'tstudent. His mother sent me a copy of the long ago, there was a special on television dehumanization. 
make juQk."
letter he left with his family; and in her own about black Americans. In one of the I remember a student saying to me once: note to me said: "Perhaps by studying his segm~nts it showed black children in a "I can't stand it anymore-not being me. 
"Don't devalue yourself...
letter you may be able to keep some other grade-school art class. They were asked to I'm sick and tired of being what I think young person from doing what To~ did." draw pictures of themselves, and again and others want me to be or what I believe will 
I'm not at all sure I can offer much; for again the self-portraits were faceless. Their win me their acceptance. If I'm not myself God doesn't make junk" one thing, the letter is not all that revealing self-eoncept was negative because nobody I'm a big nothing." and coherent. I still shudder every time I had ever given them signs that they were of It's very difficult to see a way out of the 
I am reminded of the powerful scene in
read it. It begins: "Dear Family. I'm sorry value. dilemma-unless we change our outlook. 
the novel The Exorcist: "This is to disturb your dinner, but I'm sure that People do seem to measure up to the Interestingly enough, this is exactly what possession; this is the devil 's target... towhat I have to say will not elicit toasts of expectations others hold about them. I was Jesus suggested when he said: "Unless you have us think ourselves so vile, so"cheerio." You see, I have terminated my counseling a high school girl once who told change yo\rr outlook and become as a child putrescent, sowithout dignity and unworthy 
life." me about the way her mother treated her: you cannot enter the kingdom of Heaven." I that iw ill be impossible for us to believe that Throughout the letter there are constant "My mother has always failed to trust me believe it's important to realize that he does God could love us."
revelations of deep pain: frustrations over and always tells me I'm no good. Now I'm not say we should change and be what we There seem to be many persons around peer association, distress at the great about to give her just what she has ex­are not, but that we should change an at­this University who find very little reason to presence of oppression and evil in the world, pected." At that time she was an innocent 
titude that fails to recognize that in a very authentically like themselves. A lot of theand the deep hurt suffered as a result of person. Presently, she is secretly dating a 
crucial way we are a child. There are some rest of us are to blame for this. We are qualities of a child that we never should supposed to a chabbel of the Father's love suicide is the ultimate effort to kill the pain lose-a sense of wonder, for example. A for one another. But even when we child seems to be willing to let things be. A frequently blow it, the most important child will let a father be a father. A child reason is always there-we are children with 
that so frequently results from self-loathing will open and will trust. A child will accept a Father who cares. gifts, will show, without any em harassment, There are also many who admire them­authentic need. A child will accept himself selves for very questionable reasons-beauty 
rejection by the girl he loved. Throughout inarried man. as being loved. special talent, welath, popularity, con­there is a sense of self-loathing-a very basic For whatever reason, whenever one holds Sometimes we can be so overwhelmed nections, physical prowess. And when these inability to befriend himself and to suc­himself in such low esteem, even a with signs that we are hateful that we find it fade or when one wonders about the cessfully handle the pain resulting from momentary tenderness can cuase in­absolutely impossible to risk believing that .. uthenticity of these criteria, one may feel honest self-eonfrontation. furiation and pain. It seems to make us feel someone like God could freely accept us. He the bottom has fallen out. In this categoryThis raises a basic question about a guilty. We believe we con't deserve to be does--unconditionally--not because of a we find the Janis Joplins and those others crucial question of life: what do we do about loved; consequently, being loved acts like whole catalogue of fantastic qualities that whose self-loathing leads to self-destruction. the pain each of us experiences? Pain is a salt on the wound. We attempted to lash out would force God (or anyone else, for that One can't help but think of Judas in Jesus inevitable consequence of the human at the person inflicting it. I am reminded of matter, who judged objectively) to accept Christ Superstar. In his own personalcondition. We are forced to deal with the that scene in the movie, Who's Afraid of and love us, but just because God is so great version of "I don't know how to love him,"pain, live with it, try to ride it through, Virginia Woolf? Martha explains that she that he accepts us precisely because that's Judas sings: "Does he love me too; does he believing that this is a part of the maturing strikes out at her husband because "he can the way he is. care for me?" In the midst of all the process; or we attempt all kinds of escape make me happy and I do not wish to be variations of pain that come our way as a mechanisms in an effort to kill the pain. The happy. And, yes, I do wish to be happy ...and result of our living in the real world, there is student who gets bombedonaweekend may he has made the hideous, the hurting, the /f 1 h 1 d a call to resist all those efforts to kill the reveal more than he realizes in his insulting mistake of loving me and must be se -oat ing ea s pain that block our maturing. There is, on statement, "I was feeling no pain." Suicide punished for it." the other hand, an urging to live with the is the ultimate effort to kill the pain that so Not being able to accept ourselves can pain of life, to believe that it is part of the
to self destruction
frequently results from self-loathing. turn to trying to be someone else: what we growth process. To risk the chance that it 
Why do people hate themselves, feel very think will be acceptable. But then a strange could possibly open us up to another who can uncomfortable with the persons they are, thing happens. When we enter this fanta~y I No wonder it demands the open and provide a strength we alone can never find it very difficult to like what they see? land of pretence and facade-the escape trusting quality of a child. In a sense God discover. There is, in other words, an an­What we experience from others can surely from thehateful self-we then discover we asks us to be willing to say: "I am swer to Judas and everyone else struggling contribute to self-hatred. Rollo May is also hate not being ourselves. There is a beautiful." He asks us to say this and to with the problem of pain: "Yes, I love you probably right: self-knowledJ!e doesn't painful ambivalence here. We r.tay find it .understand that the most important reason too; I care for you." 
,,..
.3 D~ 



w 

! 10 the observer 
~ 
I J 
•
• 
~ 
• ~ 
t 
~ 
~ ~ 
•~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
Apology

t 
In the final December edition ot~ the Observer, a letter written by Professor Robert Kerby was
• published concerning his feelings 
• 
t about an evaluation in the Scholastic's Course Evaluation 
Booklet. The Editors of the
• Observer apologize to Professor
•~ Kerby and our readers for the improper editorializing done
•~ 
within the text of that letter. 

•a I ­
The Editorial Board 
I• 
In Retrospect 

Dear Editor: The Crimson-White are out to get 
~ "Notre-Who" or whoever the damn yankees are with the unique football tradition. The papers here in Tuscaloosa and yonder are full of predictions, descriptions and predilectionsof the "game of the century.'' Everyone here has been waiting and waiting for this one and of course are convinced the Tide will prevail in New Orleans. Thought you should know about this spirit and determination to prepare accordingly and though a grad student at Alabama now, I have no fear that.. what though the odds be great or small, Old Notre Dame will win over all ..... rah, rah, rah, rah 
Larry Overlan 
Class of '71 
Editor's Note: Amen. 

Crimson Romeo 
Dear Editor: 

I address you as an Alabama student seeking the name and address of one of your "lovely" coeds. Upon making my way through the masses at Pat O'Brien's after a "certain" foot­ball contest, my person was found 
Thursday, January 17, 1974 

ND Energy Group Named 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 

Seventeen 'students, faculty members and administrators have been appointed to a newly formed Energy Conservation Committee by University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. They will mrvey all possible areas of energy t.~sage pon the campus and to make recommendations for conservation in line with the national guidelines. 
"If we are going to save enrgy we must cut down on electricity use by students," said Fr. Jerome Wilson, vice president for business 1ffairs. "Lowering the ther­11ostats in the building wouldn't do any good since the heat is a by­product of electrical generation. Students can help by cutting down on the use of electrical ap­pliances." 
The committee, which will have its first organizational meeting today was designed to represent all groups in the university concerned with the energy problem. Their recommendations will be passed on to Fr. Hesburgh for approval., 
. • ~ t 
-' .. ' 

conversing with one of your fellow blonde students from Bir­mingham, Michigan, When the fact became known that my hometown is Birmingham, Alabama, enchantment (on my behalf) set in for the remainder of that dreary, dreadful evening. The meeting of the Yank and Rebel Birminghams took place near the fountain close to 1 a.m. on January 1st. The little woman threw a fair Southern drawl at this fellow which fascinated me even more. With my date tugging at my rain-soaked garments, I was forced to leave the premises to seek friendlier surroundings (and yet another Hurricane!) 
Now, with two days to ponder the situation, your publication seems to be the best access to the mystery woman. Any assistance your student body could provide would be greatly appreciated. 
Thank you and congratulations to a great team and an equally great coach! Bravo for a job well done. 
A disappointed and searching Alabama student, Rick Ferguson 1823 loth Ave. Apt. 12B Tuscaloosa, Alabama 35401 
P.S. For Sale: One (1) "We're Number 1" license plate (cheap!) 
Bowl Tix 
Dear Editor: 

In a recent editorial, you proposed a change in policy regarding bowl ticket distribution. However, your proposed plan does not eliminate the most time­consuming and profitless aspects of the system, namely the waiting in line. Why should a student have to stand outside the ACC for 12 hours to purchase a ticket? Why not use the same plan that was proposed for the sale of home­coming tickets, namely that of a lottery. This would insure all students an equal chance for a ticket while removing the tedious and boring wait. After pre­registration, I'm sure we all could 
do with the elimination of a few lines .... 
Stephen Paspek '76 
Irish Class 
Dear Editor: 

The Notre Dame students who participated in the other Crimson Tide-Fighting Irish encounter in New Orleans--the struggle for Bourbon Street--deserve a com­pliment. 
In Molly's Irish Pubs and Pat O'Brien's Bar they were spirited but not boorish, and their good humor carried the day on the ill­fated Amtrack trains. 
One veteran French Quarter shopkeeper who has witnessed more than a few Sugar Bt•wl in­vasions put it simply, "Notre Dame students have class." 
Dick Conklin 
Thanks 
Dear Editor, 

Thank you very much for all your assistance in helping make the Charity Basketball Game a success. 
Through everyone's efforts, we were able to distribute over two hundred and eighty baskets fo food along with one hundred and fifty turkeys and thirty-six cornish hens to two hundred families in the South Bend community this Thanksgiving. 
Christopher J. Amato 
Support 
Dear Editor: 

I support Mike Kulczycki and Tom McAndrew's reply to Tom Broderick pointing out the quality cultural events the Dance and Drama Series provides for ND­SMC. 
It is true that the University does not underwrite a Performing Arts Series, but the Office of Student Affairs does underwrite the Ar­tist's Series <Notre Dame Con­certs> and the Symphony Or­chestra, both of which are ad­ministered by Music Department Faculty members. 
Rev. James F. Flanigan, C.S.C. Associate Vice President 
Fr. James Flanigan, associate vice president for student affairs, commented, "There is no severe crisis looming up in the immediate future but we feel an obligation to economize because of the critical national <:ituation and because of rising fuel costs." 
Students on the committee in­
clude Ken W. McCandless, graudate in the Department of Architecture; Anthony R. Walter, senior accounting major; and 1 Carol E. Simmons. freshn""la==n.:..:..__ 
Activities planned 
The ND-SMC Council for the Retarded seeks to provide various activities and programs to broaden the retardate's experience. They include the Saturday recreation program consisting of periods of arts and crafts, swimming, gymnastic activities, group games and singing. Also offered during the week is a basketball, a bowling, and a music program. 
Only a very small percentage of the retarded population are vic­tims of organic defects, and each is capable of •achievement at his own pace. Most problems of retar­dation occuring are a. result of social, cultural, and en­vironmental deprivation. Men­tally retarded childrem behave the way they do because of the things that have happened to them during their lifetime . 
In conjunction with Logan school, at various times throughout the day, there are opportunities to teach swimming, gym skills, or serve as a teacher's assistant. Also included are special events such as dances, and trips to special shows including one to Chicago's Museum of Science and Industry. 
If interested in participating in any of these a activities, there will be a general meeting for old and new volunteers on Thursday, January 17 at 7:30 in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. For further information, or if unable to attend, please contact Jay Lone (288-9756) or Klem Bartosik (289­3990). 
Want to do something 
worthwhile for yourself? 
If you have at least two years left at Notre Dame you should investigate the Army ROTC Program on campus. 
There are openings for enlisted veterans who have the additional opportunity to apply for a one year full tuition scholarship. Veterans may opt for either a 3 month or a 2 year active duty commitment after commissioning. 
Non-veterans interested in earning an officer's commission should inquire about the Two-Year Program. Individuals in this program are eligible for two and for one-year scholarships. 
If you desire further information, visit the Army ROTC office on campus or call 6264. 
ArmyRare 


"OUR FINEST TEAM EVER.•." 
You will want 
to share in the honor-· 
with this traditional 
plaque designed to 
capture the natural 
beauty of the Redwood 
from which each is 
crafted. Equal to 
the rarest of achievements, which we now commemorate. 

The nature of Native Redwood assures that each of these hand finished pieces will be totally different than a II of the others of this limited edition offering---truly a one of a kind art object that you will want to number among your most prized possessions. 
Famous artist, Rolf Alan, was again commissioned to create a commemorative plaque for the Northcraft people, where the original is now on display. This com­mission was executed in his mountain studio overlooking Lake Champlain. A limited edition of 1000 replicas are now being sculpted under the critical eye of Rolf Alan, who will personally sign, number and hand finish each 
piece. 
This plaque measures almost a full12 inches square and is sculpted from 2 inch timbers, trimmed in blue and gold and then finished to give it a depth matched only by other Rolf Alan creations. This limited offering is made to you for only $18.00 plus $1.50 for UPS and is fully refundable. 
Rush your check (no COD's) with your name and address to: NORTHCRAFT PRODUCTS, INC, 


The Observer 
Needs 



Typists! 

*Musttypeat least 50wpm *starting salary $1.60/hr. 
BOX 1,. WESTPORT, N.Y. 12993.
*Call Ho"Yard at 1175, " · ·· 
... ,-,.,.~.·.~.~.~.~.~_............~....~~..~~~~..........
. -. ---... ---. .
. . . ....·-............... " ..... .
• '11.-. -••• ~ 
----·---~-~-~------.--~~ 
--------------~~-­
' .

' ,.,,ll..~f;)!lf·l· • ,•' ~ ·• " · ' .•> ~ ' '~ I i ~ 
Thursday, January 17, 1974 · ··the ·ob~se'rver 1 1 





lD South Bend
ND grads settle-• 
by Melissa A. Byrne Staff Reporter 
What has influenced 2700 Notre Dame alumni to settle in St. Joseph County near their old Aln1a Mater~ 
Notre Dame graduates feel they have an advantage living and working in the South Bend area. They describe this advantage in terms of community size and location; business, cultural and educational opportunities and affiliations with the University of Notre Dame. 
Charles F. Lennon, Jr., a 1961 
Notre Dame graduate from Joliet, 
Illinois, speaks of South Bend with 
real enthusiasn1. "South Bend 
holds a lot of people here: 
and that says something for this 
community. 
· The comn1Unity has 

progressive, forward-looking 
attitudes toward itself," said 
Lennon. "The people here have a 
willingness to volunteer for the 
betterment of the community." 
Lennon's experience with the 
South Bend community qualifies 
him to speak on the matter. He 
coached baseball at Notre Dame 
for five years, taught at St. Mary's 
College and servedas executive 
director of the South Bend Model 
Cities Program. No doubt Len­
non's enthusiasm aided him in attaining his current position as executive director of the Com­munity Development and Redevelopment of the City of South Bend. 
Richard Rosenthal, a 1954 Notre Dame graduate, moved to South Bend from St. Louis, Missouri in his junior year in college. Presently Chairman of the Board of St. Joseph Band and Trust Company, Rosenthal commented, "We've got an optimum size community." 
Size and Location 
"A community of 200,000 people, like South Bend and Mishawaka, has a blessing not often recognized," said Rosenthal. "We have a community big enough to have the benefits of a metropolis, yet small enough to deal with problems." 
Many Notre Dame graduates were attracted to the relatively small size and easy pace of South Bend as compared to their former hometowns. John Thurin, a 1959 graduate in Communications Arts, moved to South Bend from Cleveland, Ohio. His family now lives on a farm. "No one lives around us, yet it takes only 12 minutes to drive to my office in South Bend." 
Edward M.E. Healy, a graduate from San Antonio, Texas, lived in Dallas for 10 years. Haly made up his mind to leave the megalopolis when he realized he spent one month out of every 12 driving on the expressway. Healy is currently a life insurance agent with Frank Sullivan Associates of South Bend. 
Xlimate and proximity to Chicago are two more features South Bend offers its citizens. Many ND alumni view the city's close proximity to Chicago without the headaches of big city life as an important community asset. Other alumni mention the change in season s as particularly at­tractive. The winter weather, considered a scourge by many, opened a whole new area of sport activities for the children of Ed­ward Healy. 
The Healy family also enjoys the 
harvest season in South Bend. 
"We enjoy picking fruit, especially 
strawberries, apples and cherries. 
You don't get the opportunity too 
often in Texas," said Healy. "In 
fact, one o of our children came up 
with the saying, 'The family that 
picks together, sticks together."' 
Education and Culture 

The Notre Dame alumni in­terviewed for this article averaged 46 years of age and had an average 
of five children each. Con­sequently, many alumni view South Bend from a family stand­point. As Dennis Troester, a 1957 Notre Dame graduate from Saginaw, Michigan, remarke~, "South Bend is a good town to hve in and raise a family. However, when I was a student we used to complain about the weather and ask ourselves, 'How would you ever end up living in South Bend, 
Indiana~'" 
Many alumni agree with Troester, acknowledging South Bend offers advantages for a family. Most men cited the very satisfactory South Bend school systems, both public and parochial. Joel Bullard, a 1950 graduate and father of nine children, called the educational system in their community "Quite good." Bullard added, "My only regret is that my college-bound children don't care to attend Notre Dame or St. Mary's because they 
want to attend schools outside the community." 
The graduates agree the in­fluence of the University of Notre Dame creates excellent cultural opportunities for the community. · Alumni who are also natives of South Bend commented the city has become more attractive in terms of cultural events in recent years. This was attributed to the 
(continued on page 13) 


-
Edward M. E. Healy: "We enjoy picking fruit, especially strawberries, apples and cherries." 


TheAudio Speeialists 
WHILE QUANTITIES LAST••• ONE PER CUSTOMER••• NO DEALERS PLEASE. 
ALSO MANY UNADVERTISED SPECIALS 

PIONEER SX-727 
40 watt RMS per channel receiver sold everywhere for $39995 
{good this Friday
$295°0 
With this coupon and Saturday only) 

PIONEER SX-828 
60 watt RMS per channel sold everywhere for $49995 

$299°0 
(good this FridayWith this coupon and Saturday only) 
TEAC 40 1 0 GSL 
3-motor reel-to-reel tape deck sold everywhere for 5 59950 
(good this Friday
With this coupon· O$49 9 5 and Saturday only)­
.­
(good this Friday

With this coupon 
and Saturday only) 

PIONEER CT-4141 
Cassette deck with Dolby sold everywhere for$26995 
With this coupon$ 1 7 99 5 (good this Saturday
only) 

PIONEER HEADPHONES 
all models in stock 
25% off list price 
With this coupon (good this Friday and Saturday only) 
Open this Friday Noo~ to 9pm 


INVITATION 
ALL AUDIO DEALERS WHO ARE BOLD ENOUGH TO OPENLY COMPETE WITH OUR FAMOUS DISCOUNT PRICES ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO CHALLENGE US IN A 'PRICE WAR. 
PLEASE ACKNOWLEDGE BY OFFERING AND ADVERTISING THE LOWEST PRICES THIS CITY HAS EVER SEEN·· 
r.s.v.p. 
MARANTZ 4415 
60 watt RMS 4-channel receiver sold everywhere for $39995 


$278°0 
.....

310 North Michigan, South Bend, Indiana 4660 1• 
•, ',. ..' t r · • • " 
.. , ' .' 

, ~ 6 ......... ~..... .!<,-.. ..... ~· ~ •• • o o ..• ..' "~ ..• L• .: ..... " ....... 
Open this Saturdov JOam ·to 6pm
'· 
..., ,J. • o. • . I I
• 

the obsetve·r lh.ursday; January 17, 1974 
0-C students battle burglaries 
(continued /rom page 6) 
weekend there's a foowall game depending on the game," said Foy. 
If the game is an "overnight" game like Southern Cal or Air Force, the patrol is larger than for ''iocal games like Purdue and Michigan State. 
Chief Foy pointed to the success of these additional patrols. "So far this may have had some effect on crime," he said. "Except for a couple of isolated incidents, we haven't had any assaults." 
Foy admitted that police protection for students outside the Notre Dame Ave.-Corby St. area has not been as successful. At least on e student agreed. Kevin Smith pointed out that in his neigh­borhood, "you've got literally no protection except for an occasional cop car." 
The police have met with vir­tually no success in retrieving stolen property. Smith pointed out, "The chances of finding stolen stuff is practically nil. Unless it's marked you can't get it back anyway." 
Because students cannot prove ownership of stolen property, it is very difficult to recover these items. The student plight is more severe than that of the normal household. Foy cited that most households have bills of sale and other such proofs of ownership. 

Student households often leave the bills of sale for valuable items at their permanent homes. 
"If we don't have the brand name, model number and serial number, the student has a terrible time identifying it even if we found it," said Foy. 
Foy suggested that students mark all their valuables especially televisions, stereos, radios and speakers with their social security numbers. Called Project MARC the prograni enables police to return recovered property to rightful owners. 
Foy observed that larceny and robbery rates, which have been high city-wide should decrease among students in the near future. "We have made several arrests for armed robberies and since that time robberies have declined," he said. 
Crime prevention 

Foy has many suggestions for students to protect themselves from crime. "When walking, don't walk alone," he suggested. "Stay on the sidewalks instead of cutting through back alleys." 
To protect the house Foy urged students to have adequate locks and lighting. Many students have only "nickel and dime" locks where solid steel locks are needed. 
Students themselves take ad­
ditional precautions. Kerry 
Powers reported, "We try to keep 
somebody here at all times. We 
changed the locks on the doors." 
Callahan suggested that the 
student should give the impression 
of being visible. "Park your car in 
different positions so people know 
you're moving," he proposed. 
"We've tried not to gain too many 
material possessions that we keep 
in the house." 
Ruekert emphasized that 
students should ttravel in groups 
when walking at night. Also he 
suggested, "Make sure you don't 
have too much money or no money 
in your wallet." 
Fr. James Shilts, director of off­
campus residence and student 
affairs, advised students to 
become involved in community 
affairs. "One of the best protec­
tions for students living off­
campus is to get involved in the 
neighborhood," he stressed. 
Off-campus students face a particular problem over vacation periods when most students leave for home. Their houses are left vacant and suceptible to burgalry. 
When asked what he planned to do to protect his house over Christmas, Kevin Smith replied, 


Controversial tape recorder under detailed investigation 
Washington <UPI> The recording machine of presidential secretary Rose Mary 
Woods may become the most controversial piece of Washington office equipment since the famous Woodstock typewriter of State 
Department official Alger Hiss 25 years ago. 
Hiss was found guilty of perjury by a federal jury in 1950 on grounds he lied when, among other things,. he said documents passed to the Russians were not typed on his Woodstock typewriter. 
Miss Woods' equipment in question is a Uher Universal 5000 recorder, bought Oct. I, 1973, in Washinton by the Secret Service

--for $528.80 -including a foot pedal. It was on this machine, a six­man technical panel reported Tuesday, that an 18% minute portion was erased of a June 29, 1972, conversation between President Nixon and former White House aide H.R. Haldeman which the watergate investigators think might have been crucial. Hiss' Woodstock typewriter was a battered model he kept at his home and which was finally produced at his trial. Miss Woods' machine is a modern recorder designed to handle 5 inch spools of magnetic tape at three different speeds. The German-made recorder has both standard recording and dictating capability with different buttons for each procedure. In addition to the "play" and "Stop" buttons found on most recorders, the Uher also has a "continuous playback" feature with a "pause" key to facilitate transcribing. It also has the capability of being used with a foot pedal and earphones. The case is light gray, with a removable cover. The keyboard also is light gray except for the "stop" button which is dark gray. "The "erase" and "record" heads for the tape are fixed. When recording, the tape first passes the "erase" head, where any prevous sounds are reomoved. Then the tape pases the "record" head where new voices or sounds are recorded. Both the "erase" and "tecord'} heads' leave minute ' 
marks or signatures,marking the controls ... was involved in starting point where recording begins or and again in stopping the recor­erasing ends. ding of each segment," the expert 
These were the "signature" committee reported. marks studies by the six experts in Miss Woods testified last fall she determing that the gap in the may have accidentally erased 
Nixon-Haldeman tape was caused about five minutes of the June 20 on this same machine by at least tape when she answered the five and as many as nine erasures telephone and pressed the wrong and recordings. ( re-recordings(. button while her foot was on 
"Hand operation of the keyboard another control. 
Security reports single break-in over holidays 
lly Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Security Department reported a single case of breaking and entering over the Christmas holiday. 
Accoding to Security Director Arthur Pears, one room in St. Edward's Hall was entered and an amplifier was stolen. A full report on the break-in has not yet been completed. 
Pears was pleased that only one reported incident occured on campus during the entire vacation. 
"We had lots of help in keeping the pilferers away from students property," Pears stated. 
Pears also commented on the six new signs posted at pedestrian and bicycle crossings. 
"We have posted the new signs in order to be in conformity with the recommendations of the National Safety Council," Pears stated. 
He added that, due to the fact that this signs are used con­ventionally nationwide, the signs will be more easily recognizeable to students from different states. 

The Windiammer has it all for you••• 
Especially around job interview time. Before you go for an important interview, stop and see us. You'll look your best.


ahe WinJjammer 
All services by appointment--no waiting 
··.·.·: ·163'7,.-Lhn:olhway W 232-6622 
"That's what we don't know. We've had a couple of offers from foreign students to take care of our things. The only thing we can do is to rely on friends," said Smith. 
Jim Callahan plans to leave some valuables with friends, but also plans to notify the police. "We're going to call the cops and take our TV over to a friend's." 
Chief Foy explained that off­campus students can arrange to have the police watch their house during vacations. Such home watch requests are usually honored by the individual patrolman who is assigned to check on homes on his beat. For emphasized that the watch is just a small part of the patrolman's beat. 
"They make as many passes 
rounds  near  that  house  as  they  
can," said Foy.  
"Many  students  couldn't  care  

less," Foy compalined. "They won't record a home watch." 
Quiet fall 

However this semester has not been marked by the kind or in­tensity of crime that have characterized previous years. this has been one of the quietest falls I can remember. We haven't had any student problems except for the normal." 
Fr. Shilts observed, "This year the kind of crime that has been frightening students is not hap­pening." 
Although crimes such as assaults have decreased, it ap­pears that students are still falling victims to house robberies. Many of these crimes are unpreventable. 
However, police suggest that simple precaution can prevent the house burglary or the purse­snatching. Yet even these precautions may not have helped the Jim Callahans or Fred Ruekerts or Jean LeFloc'hs of Notre Dame. 
INDIANAPOLIS SYMPHONY 
Sunday, Jan. 20 Olaughlin 3:00pm St. Mary's 
s J75

s J students public 
Courtesy of The National Endowment for the Arts and Indiana Arts Commission 
MISSED OUT? 
If you have not tried the Army ROTC program this past fall, you still have the opportunity to catch up with your contemporaries already in the program. There is no commitment to further 
military service by taking Army ROTC this semester. 
AnnyROTC 11[ 


Main Fllor ---------_$5.50 Sl Joseph Bank -and branches Loge •-------------$5.50 First Bank -Main office only
Platform ____ •______ $5.50 Elkhart Truth 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. J. Geils Band. Send to J. Geils Band Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 
.. l • ~· 
' 

f ~ ' • 
----------------------------~ 
1 
J 

, .ThursdayJ J,anuary 17,, 1974 the observer 
13 

Grads stay active in ND affairs 
(continued /om page 11) 
and the original Power Plant," Company) commented, "The
paper he disagrees with from time Turley and Watson encourage facilities available in the ACC and said Hickey. Recent buldings to time. "However, I feel it is activity after the closing of students to support their alumni,
constructed by the Hickey Com­
the Morris Civic Auditorium. important that papers like The Studebaker indicates·the stability saying, "Someday you may be 
pany include the Hayes-Healy
Although the graduates feel Observer provide a student voice of the community." "Presently one." "It may cost more at times
Center at ND, the Dining Hall and 
Notre Dame is a major asset to the and offer responsible and objective viability and stability is sub­but the great Notre Dame
Madaleva Hall at SMC, downtown
South Bend community, many reporting, explained Hammes. stantially triggered by the stability fellowship is well worth it," stated
parking facilities for the city of 
concur with John Redden, a South Daniel O'Brien, a 1958 ND of the University," said Rosenthal. Watson.
South Bend and the 14 story ad­
Bend native and 1954 graduate, graduate from New Zork City, James Turley, a 1963 ND Notre Dame alumni who settle in who said, "The community does dition to South Bend Memorial increased his contact with the graduate from South Bend, and St. Joseph county are very pleased 
Hospital.
not always realize the University's University by becomeing involved Charles Watson, a 1965 ND with their choice. The men feel the influence, from educational to in the Hall Fellow's Program at graduate from Fort Lauderdale, South Bend community offers
ND Affiliations elaborated on the way the
cultural to financial impact." Keenan Hall. Both O'Brien and his unique advantages in terms of Redden is secretary-treasurer of Affiliation with Notre Dame was wife are involved in the program. University community affects location, culture, business and Redden Enterprieses, Inc. which a major influencing factor in many They find it affords them time their business, The Distillery, a accessibility to the University of has a long history of associations graduates' decisions to settle in the together and opportunities to packaged liquor store. "We do Notre Dame. Their willingness with the Universityof Notre Dame. South Bend community. Most discuss matters of consequence to quite a bit of business with and enthusiasm to speak of the 
Redden Enterprises has han-alumni interviewed emphasized students and faculty," said Wat­South Bend community is enough
them. "We both get a lot out of our 
dled all parking for ND home the fact that they chose to live in associations with th students and son. "Of course, we do things for to convince anyone of its merits. football games since 1930 when the this area. Jerry Hammes, cor­Father Griffin," said O'Brien. the students, too." The Distillery "One disadvantage of living in stadium was built. "Mr Rockne porate vice-president of Hammes­advertises regularly in The Ob­South Bend, however," as Watson gave that duty to my dad," said Fordland, stated, "At this point in Business server and The Monitor, and points out, "is when your old Redden. my life I could still make a change contributes advertising for the friends descent upon you for 
Redden's company also sponsors and live in Joliet or Hankakee and Alumni indicated the University Bengal Bouts and An Tostal. Buth football games." trips to all away ND football run the business from our other 
often affects their business life. 
games, and has done so since 1937. offices. But I really do like the Several graduates mentioned 
"Most of our customers on the area." utilizing the resource of talent 
away game trips are sub-way Dr. Armand Rigaux, a 1960 ND available at the University. 

...
alumni," remarked Redden. "Our graduate and specialist in family William Voll, Sr., president of 
mailing list .covers the entire practice, commented, Sibley Machine and FoundryUnited States," In 1958 Redden "Physicians are unique in being commented, "In the past few started a world-wide travel able to go just about anywhere and years we've had four consultants agency. make a go of it." Rigaux indicated from Notre Dame. Student 
Joseph Hickey, a South Bend he chose this area because "South projects have been carried on in native and 1950 ND graduate, is a Bend is a good medical com­our plant and we've hired several member of another family with a munity." He cited St. Joseph and­Notre Dame students for summer strong Notre Dame tradition. emorial Hospitals' residency employment,"Hickey's five older brothers also programs as examples of the "high As a native of South Bend, Voll attended Notre Dame. Hickey class of medicine" practiced in has had ample opportunity to assumed presidency of the family this area. observe the progress of the city's
business, The Hickey Company, Rigaux also works on the staff at economy. "In recent years the which offers a range of con­the Holy Cross Out-Patient Clinic South Bend economy has achieved struction and development ser­and at the infirmaries of Holy more of a balance," indicated Voll. 
vices. His great-grandfather Cross Junior College and the "It is no longer purely a Louis A. Hickey, played an im~ convent at St. Marv's College. manufacturing economy." portant role in the construction of Many alumni make efforts to Many graduates aggreed with Sacred Heart Church on the Notre keep in close contact with the Jerome Claeys, a 1937 ND Dame campus. University community. Several graduate and president of Claeys
"Since the company ws formed graduates interviewed said they Candy, who said, "South Bend is we have constructed many subscribe to the Observer. an excellent business town for its buil~ings for the University, in­Hammes, who was influential in size." Discussing the communitycludmg Zahm, Cavanaugh, Breen­helping the Observer through some in terms of the economy,Phillips and Farley Halls, the ND financial difficulties several years Rosenthal (chief executive officer Infirmary, the Biology Building ago, admits there are things in the 
of th St. Joseph Band and Trust 
Co1nmittee on University Priorities co1npletes study 
(continued fom page 5) meeting. Meanwhile, he solicited professor of Aerospace and growth of computer use," the comments for the benefit of the mechanical engineering; Rev. report states. It recommends a trustees' discussion from some James Flanigan, C.S.C., associate temporary committee of outside 8;,000 faculty, administration, vice president for student affairs; consultants ot review and assess students, alumni and friend sof the Dr. James Frick, vice president of 
University who will receive the
these areas and also calls for a public relations and 
report in the December issue of
committee "fully representative of development; Dr. Yusaku the University community" to Notre Dame Magazine. Furuhashi, professor of marketing assist the executive board The 14-mem ber committee, management; Dr. Robert Gordon, in the supervision of the Com­chaired by Rev. James T. Burt­vice president for advanced 
puting center. chaell, C.S.C' provost of the Un­studies; Sister Madonna 
viersi ty, published four task force Kolbenschlag, H.M., assistantNotre Dame Press--The reports on major areas of progfessor of American studies;report advocates a five-University life in addition to Rev. Ernan McMullin, professor ofyear probationary period for the meeting in plenary session 30 philosophy; Dr. 0. TimothyUniversity's scholarly publishing an times. Other committee members O.Meara, professor ofendeavor, during which time are Howard Bathon, senior in Arts mathematics; Frank Palopoli,editorial board would be charddd­and Letters and chemical graduate student in governmentddged wotj "establishing a specific engineering; Rev. David Burrell, and international studies; Dr.
editorial policy to enhance quality C.S.C., associate professor of Thomas Shaffer, dean of the Lawof its publications, studying ways philosophy and theology; Dr. School, and Dr. Marshall Smelser, of cotting costs, and evaluation 
James Saschbach, associate professor of history.
continually Press publications by the standard of their reception of the academic scene." 
Father Hesburgh told the committee he would reprot to the University's trustees at their May 
Oil profits low 
-Frank N. Ikard, president of the American Petroleum Insitute, issued a statement saying that oil industry profits were at a "lo-year low" in 1972 and profit increases in 1973 "barely bring the industry back to the -evel of previous yea. s ­and this level has not been as good as the average for other manufacturing industries." 
ACADEMIC COMMISSION PRESENTS 
The Life &Times of Judge Roy Bean 
with PAUL NEWMAN 
Washington Hall spo _7:30pm 1 0:OOpm TONIGHT & FRIDAY 

• I ; 'I 
CI-JECK OUR PRICES ON NIKON, OLUMPUS, PENTAX, 
CANON, KONICA AND ON ALL PHOTO NEEDS 
PHOTO WORLD 
1.431 S. Mich. 
234-4027 
Hours: M 9-8 r-F9-6 
FREE PARKING 
DIVISIONOF.All.T PHOTOFINISHINGLABORATORIE 
.---~-­
t 14 the observer T.h,ursday,. .J.a.n_uf!rr )7~ l97l1 
•
Not'fy~·~j·:o·ame holiday on ICe: 4-4 

by John Fineran Currently, the point column for 
the Irish in the WCHA indicates 
There have been shortages of only 13 points (6-9-1). This places many things during the past Notre Dame in the seventh spot, months, but one commodity which but Michigan State, the third-place has really been scarce so far this team, is only four points better. season for the Notre Dame hockey Here ;is a capsule summary of team has been luck. With a little the holiday play: more of it, the Irish icers might have made a better showing over St. Louis 6, Notre Dame 5 the semester break than their The teams were tied 2-2 at the effort of 4-4 will indicate. end of the first, and 4-4 at the 
Still, the breakeven effort by second period intermission in the Lefty Smith's sextet, now 8-11-1 A.C.C. The second of defenseman had to be satisfying in many Bill Nyrop's two goals gave the aspects. The offense has been Irish a 5-4 lead at 3:02 of the third potent, and most importantly, the period, but the Billikens struck defense has not been defeating the quickly with two goals of their own, Irish, as was evident in the first St. the last a breakaway goal after an Louis game (a 6-5 loss). errant Irish pass in the defensive 
The Denver series last weekend zone. 
is a good indication what a little 

luck could have done for the Irish. Notre Dame 5, Harvard 2 
"We played very well," Smith In the first meeting ever between reflected. "We outplayed Denver, the Crimson and the Irish at the but we did not outscore them. I A.C.C., freshman Clark Hamilton 
guess you can say it is a moral scored twice, the last coming with victory, but it still doesn't count in 48 seconds remaining, to give the point column." Notre Dame the victory. Larry 
Irish remain unbeaten 
(continued from page 15) 
It was the first time we have played together in a game since Indiana last Tuesday, and I was amazed that our offense scored fifty points in the first half against their zone defense. Once you're number-three you have to stay there." 
Notre Dame 73 Indiana 67 Israelson, Ray DeLorenzi and Eddie Bumbacco scored the other markers for the Irish. 
Boston College 4, Notre Dame 3 
The Irish rallied from a 3-o 
second period deficit to tie the 
Eagles 3-3 with four minutes 
remaining in regulation. 
Israelson, Nyrop and Hamilton got 
the Irish markers in the third 
period, but Boston College scored 
at 17:06 for the win, also in the 
A. C.C. 
Notre Dame 5, Minnesota-Duluth I 
In the A.C.C., Ray DeLorenzi broke the Irish out quickly in this WCHA P-ncounter with a goal at 39 seconds of the first period. Pat Conroy and Bumbacco, with second period markers, and Israelson and Tardani, the third period scorers, closed the Irish scoring. Goalie Mark Kronholm lost his bid for a second shutout this season with 36 seconds remaining. 
Notre Dame 10, Minnesota-Duluth 2 
Bill Nyrop exploded for three goals at his new center position, and his linemates, right wing Ian Williams and Bumbacco, also tallied as the Irish opened up an 8-o lead midway through the second period. DeLorenzi also scored twice, while freshmen Alex Pirus and Allen Karsnia (his first career goal) tallied one apiece. 

Denver 6, Notre Dame 5 (OT) 
At Denver, the Irish battled back from a 3-0 deficit to take a 5-4 lead early in the third period on Bumbacco's score. The Pioneers tied the score and forced overtime. 
The winning goal came at 1:42 of the extra period, just after Pat Conroy's almost sure goal was blocked by a diving defenseman. Williams, DeLorenzi, Jack Brownschidle (his first at ND) and Ric Schafer added the other Irish tallies. 
Denver 4, Notre Dame 2 

A goal which bounced off Bill Nyrop into the Irish net proved to be the undoing of the Irish. The Pioneers were leading 2-1 at the time, Williams scoring for Notre Dame. After Bumbacco scored to pull the Irish within one at 3-2 Denver scored into an open net. ' Bumbacco and Williams were also robbed on a 2-on-o break as Denver goalie Pete LoPresti somehow managed to deflect Williams shot with his stick. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTI!D NOTICES
Experienced typist would like typing to do at home. 291-3351. 
Beginning and intermediate guitar lessons given at yourReally need 2 GA UCLA tix. 

convenience. $1.75 per 1!2 hr.

Please. Call Evelyn 6956. 
Call Tom 1610. 

NEED 1, 2, 3, or 4 UCLA tlx. 
Trade your past semesterNeed desperately. Call 

paperbacks for books neededBrenda: 284-4805. 

now at Pandor as Books , South Bend Ave. at St. Louis Blvd.

4 tix UCLA. 8688. 
3 day special order service onNeed UCLA tlx. 234-7082. 

any textbook. Pandoras Books South Bend Ave. at St. Louis .

Need 1 UCLA ticket. Call Jeff 1137. 
Want used electric typewriter. Call 6988. 
Need 1 UCLA ticket. Call 6988. 
PERSONALS 

FOR SALE 
The heirs of lslldur and the kingdom of the Dunedaln DESK: 3-drawer 43x20x29h. 
announce the betrothal of Lisa 

Formica top and sides. 110. 
the Fair, elvin -maid of the Can deliver. Also twin size GoldenWood to Stephen de 

folding bee frame and 
Smut, Captain of the Mark. springs,S5. Ph. 234-9386 evenings. 
Dear Bill , Helen, Kern, Junlco, Marcel and Kapu; Check ou REQUIRED PAPERBACKS: today's editorial, you'll enjoy
We have thousands used and it. John. 
cheaper. See Us First. Open 10-9 7 days. Pandoras boods. 
Congratulations, Beth and south bend ave. at st. louis. 
Dan! from the Observer staff. 

Hart Javelins, Marker LOST AND FOUND Rotomat, Simplex toe, anti­friction plate, boots. 291-6933. Lost gold wire rim glasses 
outside North dining hall. 1461. 

__,_,___________ 
,, · ~ f' -1 ~ I -I ~ 4 
Thursday, January 17, 1974 
the observer 
15 
•

Irish rema1n unbeaten: now 9-0 
by Greg Corgan 
They run, they pass, they shoot, · and they play defense. And so far this season, they've done them all very well. The "they" being referred to, of course, is the Notre Dame basketball team, and their big 104-77 win Tuesday night over Georgetown proved to be number nine in a string of impressive performances. 
Picking up where they left off against Xavier last Saturday, John Shumate and company virtually put the game out of reach in the opening minutes of the first half as the Irish got off to a quick 22-6lead. 
The Hoyas made a valiant attempt to stay in the ball game cutting the margin to 13 before field goals by Bill Paterno and Gary Novak sandwiched around two more by Dwight Clay put the Irish up by 21 midway through the period. 
From there on the only thing in 
doubt was the margin of victory as 
Coach Digger Phelps' crew used 
the fast break, crisp passing, 50 
per cent shooting, and a swarming 
defense to remain undefeated 
heading into the big one Saturday 
against UCLA. 
"We worked hard for this game 
against Georgetown," offered 
Digger. "we weren't looking 
ahead to UCLA." 
Phelps then turned to his defense 
which, led by forwards Adrian 
Dantley and Novak, had yielded 
only 68.1 points per game and was 
quickly gaining the reputation as 
one of the toughest around. 
"Our defense has carried us quite a ways this year and this is what we hope to do Saturday against UCLA, play defense." 
But the Irish have an offense too and Tuesday it was Shumate and Dantley who once again led the charge accounting for 26 and 22 points respectively. 
"Notre Dame is a good, solid ballclub," said GU coach John Thompson. "They certainly deserve the number-two ranking in the country. Adrian and Shu are really tough in the middle. Once they get their hands on the ball, you almost have to foul them to stop them. They are very smart ballplayers and they know how to handle the ball. With two ballplayers like that, you cannot collapse on one of them because the other one will take advantage of it." 
Hopefully on Saturday af­ternoon, the Bruins will have the same problem. 
Notre Dame 87 Xavier 44 
Once again defense and an early show of offensive strength powered the Irish to an easy victory. 
The outmanned Musketeers 
could manage a mere 20 points in 
the entire first half of play while 
Notre Dame used a balanced at­
tack to take a 19 point lead at in­
termission. 
The second period proved to be 
more of the same, as five Irish, led 
by Gary Brokaw's 19 points, 
finished the afternoon in double figures. 
"We just got killed," said Xavier coach Tay Baker. "They mur­dered us up and down the court. They had an excellent press which induced · many of our turnovers." 
The defense was again excellent in harrassing the Musketeers allowing them to hit on only 28 per cent of their field goal attempts. 
"Defensively we played well," noted Digger, "and that helped our offensive game." 
Notre Dame 94 Kentucky 79 
This was the win which vaulted the Irish into the number two position in the national rankings, a position frequently known as "the best of the rest." 
And the way the played down in Louisville certainly showed just cause. 
Behind only once in the ball game (4-2 in the opening minutes) the Irish outrebounded (40-24), outshot (58 per cent -49 per cent), and outdefensed the defending Southeastern Conference Champs in the unfriendly confines of Memorial Coliseum. 
Three straight jump shots by John Shumate, Adrian Dantley,and "Goose" Novak gave the Irish an 8-4 lead with two and a half minutes gone in the opening period. From there on in the Irish were never headed, opening leads of ten points on five different oc­casions in the first half. 
On the strength of Shumate's 25 
points, Gary Brokaw's 22, Dan­
Hey's 22, and Dwight Clay's 15, the 
Irish 1973: it all begins tomorrow 
September 21, 1973 

Memories fade as ND romps. 44-0 
September 24, 1973 

Best's best topples Boilermakers 
October 1, 1973 

Irish hang on; shade MSU 14-10 
October 8, 1973 

Irish boil Rice. take lumps 28-0 
October 15, 1973 

ND trounces Army; turns to USC 
October 22, 1973: 

Irish team effort downs Trojans 
October 29, 1973 

ND depth charges by Navy. 44-7 
November 5, 1973 

See how they run: Irish 31-Pitt 10 
November 12, 1973 

Irish win ninth. head for Miami 
November 27, 1973 

Miami: final obstacle to 10-0-0 
November 30, 1973 

'73 Irish: I0-0 and one to go 
December 3, 1973 

'73 Irish--the nation's best 
... ·., ', , . .J_anuary 17, 1974·
.... ' ...•' 
Irish increased their lead to as court. Tonight, they didn't look much as 19 points in the second sharp and they still beat us by 40 half before the final buzzer saw points. I thought we controlled the them on top 94-79. tempo the first 10 minutes of the 
Kevin Grevey and 'Jimmy Dan game and they were just too strong Connor took scoring honors for the for us. Their defense impressed Wildcats with 25 and 24 points me, especially their man-to-man. respectively. 'They are certainly one of the top 
teams in the nation."
For Digger Phelps and his youthful cagers the victory The Irish looked ragged in the marked their seventh win without early minutes of the ball game, but a loss, propelling them into the just proved too tough to handle for 
national limelight and a chance for the smaller Pioneers. Adrian a battle of the unbeatens on Dantley had 21 points for Notre January 19th. Dame and John Shumate 16, while high-point man for DU was John
Notre Dame 99 Denver 59 Johnson with 23. 
For Digger Phelps the game
"Notre Dame is a fine ballclub seemed a bit of a pleasant sur­
and certainly deserves it number prise. 
three ranking," said Denver head "We were a little sloppy in the coach Al Harden. "There is no beginning, but we had a rough possible way to match up against week in practice with an average
Notre Dame. They're strong on f · d · d 
, th b d d . k . th b k o s1x guys out stu ymg each ay.
e oar s an qu1c m e ac ­
(continued on page 14) 

Greg Corgan:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::. 
Extra Points 

New Orleans -For the "Bear" it'll be another long winter. In fact, maybe he'll just hibernate till next September and try to forget the fact that for the seventh time in asmanyattempts Alabama has failed to win a post-season bowl game, and this year along with it, a national cham­pionship. 
But for the Irish the off-season will be short and sweet -it always is when you're number one. 
In one of the most spectacular, most exciting college football games of all time the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame returned to national prominence with a 24-23 Sugar Bowl victory over the previously top­ranked undefeated Crimson Tide. It was the perfect end to a perfect season. 
"I'm just tickled to death," said head coach Ara Parseghian. "I'm really proud of this team. We were challenged by Alabama to play in the Sugar Bowl and we met the challenge. We met every challenge this season." 
As a result the Irish had their n-o record andalong with it recognition as the best team in the land prompting Ara to call his '73 squad the finest he's ever had. 
And it played like a champion on New Year's Eve. 
Led by MVP Tom Clements the Irish never lost their poise and con­fidence even though the lead changed hands seven times during the course of the ball game. The junior quarterback remained magnificently cool as he methodically destroyed the vaunted Tide defense. 
The victory was the result of a thorough team effort, but no one deserved the game's Most Valuable Player award more than Tom Clements. For a quarterback, who one popular magazine, noted for its frequent mistakes of analytical ineptness, had the audacity to call "Old Mediocre Tom", he was at the very least brilliant. He directed the Irish offense superbly, and his deft ball-handling in the backfield made the running attack go. On top of that Tom finished the game with 243 · · offensive yards of his own-74 on the ground, and 169 (7 of 12) thru the air. 
Most importantly he was cool, especially in the clutch, and, when he had to be, explosive. He moved the ball club at crucial times and for crucial scores. But he's ldone that all season long and calling Tom Clements mediocre is like calling Bill Walton overrated-a bit misguided. He made all the difference in the world in the Sugar Bowl. 
"We just couldn't contain the quarterback," said Alabama safety Robin Cary. He had too muchtime ... their blocking was too good." 
"Their quarterback is the one who beat us." noted Tide head coach Paul Bryant, "and that other tight end <Dave Casper) who stood up and took the ball a way from us at a crucial situation." 
Bryant was referring to a third and one situation at the 'Barna 45 when Clements floated a 30 yard pass to Casper who stole the ball away from Tide safeties David McMakin and Ricky Davis. It was an all-important play as moments later Bob Thomas kicked the winning field goal. 
Thomas' 19 yard field goal however was only the first of the two "big plays". The second wasn't even a scoring effort yet it will probably be the most well-remembered. On third and eight from his own one, Clements, again in the spotlight, calmly stepped into the backfield, faked twice to his two running backs and hit secondary receiver Robin Weber with a 35 yard strike. And that sent the Tide roooolling home. 
"It was the power I right, tackle trap left," added Clements. "Normally they freeze on the man clearing the zone, Robin Weber, but this time they didn't." 
"I only caught one pass all year long," explained Weber. "When I saw them freeze on Dave I was surprised. Then, I was wide open. When I saw the ball coming I said, Oh s-t, I better not miss." 
He didn't , but Alabama just had. 
Speaking of the Tide's chances if the Irish had had to punt in those last two minutes, Alabama quarterback Gary Rutledge allowed, "It would've been tough for us to move anyway. They would've been expecting us to throw ... as it was their pass rush was the best we've seen." For another thing I think Notre Dame was more familiar with our wishbone, than our defense was with their (split-wing) offense." 
The Irish will lose but five of this seasons 22 starters . 
Obviously that is reason for encoura_gementi but then again, suppose Sports Illustrated decides to make us the preseason favorites to repeat as National Champs in 19741 
Well, they can't always be wrong . 
·-"' j 
-
.. 

Thursday, January 17, 1974
the observer
f 
16 ! 
'73 Irish--the nation's best 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 
Bear Bryant referred to it as "just the next big 
game," but surely there was more to it than that. It was the big game. It was Notre Dame and Alabama, playing each other 
in the game which would decide the 1973 National Championship in intercollegiate football. 
Two powerhouses. Each unbeaten. Each armed with a treasure-trove of legend and each ownong an army of rabid, fanatical supporters. And the significance of the ND-'Bama showdonw was lost on no one least of all the players themselves. For as the two tea~1s waited out the final, frenzied days preceeding the Sugar Bowl, they often resembled, more than anything else, a pair of heavyweight prizefighters bound for a World Title bout. 
And by the time their Armageddon at New Orleans rolled around, Ara Parseghian's Fighting Irish and Paul (Bear) Bryant's Crimson Tide were playing their roles to the hilt. 
There were challenges and replies. There were clashes of personality and region (indeed, the Civil War was mentioned more than once in the reams of
-
publicity which clattered out of New Orleans during the week before the game.) There was talk of revenge for things said "last year." And even when the focus of Sugar Bowl Week finally zeroed in on the Poly-Turf surface of Tulane Stadium-­and when the principals in the battle proved to be two superb college football teams instead of a pair of hulking heavyweights--the comparison remained a valid one. It stayed that way as the contestants sparred during the opening minutes of the opening period, and as Notre Dame won the first round when fullback Wayne Bullock punched into the end zone from one yard away. Alabama replied--and took the lead --on a similar blow, but then ND's Alphonse Hunter stung the favored Tide by ripping through the middle of the Alabama team for a 93-yard kickoff return. Bryant's squad, though, ended the second period and began the third with a well-executed flurry from its wishbone offense, and led again, 17-14. But the lrish were not to be outdone. They muscled the advantage right back when the ND defense covered Alabama quarterback Gary Rutledge, stripped him of the football, and allowed Eric Penick to shuffle into the end zone from 12 yards out on the next play. 
The Tide answered, midway through the event's final period, by luring the Irish into a vulnerable defensive position and uncorking a sucker punch which very nearly put Notre Dame's National Title hopes down for the count. 
A 25-yard halfback-to-quarterback pass play gave Alabama a 23-2llead, but ND spent little time reeling after Mike Stock and Richard Todd combined to land their razzle-dazzle roundhouse. Instead, Parseghian's team battled back upfield, and with 4:26 remaining
.. landed the three-point punch which kayoed Alabama for good. But 'Bama, unscathed in 11 previous fights in 1973, gathered itself for one final thrust, and appeared to 
have the Irish on the ropes just before the final bell sounded. Only the quick feet of quarterback Tom Clements and the clutch hands of tight end Robin Weber enabled ND to duck out of danger and preserve its biggest football victory in more than 20 years. 
"It was a make-or-break play," said Parseghian of the play-action, third-down pass which Clements threw from the Irish end zone to the ND 38. "Alabama was committing some secondary people and leaving themselves open on third down for the pass, so I said (to Clements, during a time-out with just over two minutes remaining) 'Okay, fine, we'll fake the run and go ahead and throw the football' 
"Sure I was worried--because there was risk in­volved. Clements might not get the pass off, or Weber might slip and fall ... " 
But Clements dicl, and Weber did not, and Notre Dame, in serious jeopardy after Alabama's Greg Gantt had punted 69 yards to the Irish one, ran out the clock for the win which completed a marvelously redeeming 1973 season. 
"I would have bet my life we were going to win the game after we had them back against the goal line," sighed Bryant. "We had them in a hole. They were going to punt, and we were going to win the game. 
"But that long pass, and Clements, and their big tight end beat us." 
There was more to it than that, though, and the Bear knew it. Bryant's squad also encountered a riled-up Irish defense which limited Alabama to 359 yards total offense and only 190 rushing--figures well below the Tides' seasonal averages of 480 total yards and 366 rushing yards per game. 
The defense which Notre Dame set up must have seemed like a Smorgasbord--a little bit of everything­to the Tide attackers. The Irish slipped in and out of four, five, and six-man fronts during the first two periods, and often reverted to a seven-man line and even the mirror wishbone in the second half. 
"We used seven or eight different defenses," ad­mitted Ara, "because we weren't sure what we'd be able to do. I thought we did well defensively in the first quarter (ND limited Alabama to one offensive yard), and I figured that if we could do that we would get better as the game went on." 
"Aw," countered the Bear, "they didn't show us anything defensively we hadn't seen before. They just whipped us. But they did show us some big tight ends that took the ball away from us while we were just standing around." 
Clements (74 rushing yards in 15 carries, seven of 12 passes completed for 169 yards), the big tight ends (Dave Casper and Robin Weber, between them, caught four passes for 110 critical yards), and the Irish defense brought Notre Dame to the threshold of the National Championship. But it took placekicker Bob Thomas to nudge the Irish across that threshold. 
Thomas, who missed two long three-point tries during the game, and who didn't attempt a conversion after Notre Dame's first touchdown (a high snap from center robbed him of that opportunity), flicked a 19­yard field goal through Tulane Stadium's north uprights with 4: 26left to play to give the Irish the lead, the Sugar Bowl title, and the National Championship, 24-23. 
Thomas' three-pointer punctuated a cataclysmic final ten minutes which began with 'Bama's trick-play 
touchdown  and  ended with  Clements  hugging  the  
football against his white number 2 jersey  as  the  
stadium clock wound down to 0:00.  
In between,  the game  was won--and  lost--by  the  

opposing placekickers. Alabama's Bill Davis, who clicked on 51 of 53 conversion attempts during the regular season, missed the biggest PAT of his career after the Stock-to-Todd touchdown. Davis shanked the kick which would have put the Tide ahead by three, thereby setting the stage for ND's winning drive and Thomas' winning kick. 
"I feel sorry for him (Davis), sure, I do," said Thomas, "but I'd be lying if I said I wasn't glad it happened.Still, it has to be oneof the loneliest feelings in the world. I keep thinking what would have hap­pened if I had missed the field goal. I'm sure there would be a scar for a long time." 
But that's what the diminuitive placekicker thought after the game. As ND's final drive ground to a halt on the Alabama two, his thoughts were more positive. 
"I thought about it during the whole drive," he said. "I wouldn't have minded if we scored a touchdown, but I wasn't on the sidelines saying 'please score and 
take a burden off my head.' 
"Normally I don't chip the ball, but I decided to this time, and I decided not to follow through as much to make sure I got it over their rush. I knew it would probably go a little to the right or left, but at 19 yards I knew it couldn't drift far enough to miss. I knew I could put points on the board." 
There was some irony in the fact that a missed extra point and the finesse of Bob Thomas' right foot could decide the outcome of a knock-down, drag-out slugfest between two premier heavyweights, but that fact-plus the final score--thoroughly delighted Irish partisans in general and coach Ara Parseghian in particular. 
"This was a great college football game," said Ara, "and I'm extremely proud of our club We fell behind several times but mixed things up well enough to come back. We beat the leading scoring team in the nation and the team that was leading in offensive yardage. We beat a great football team, and they lost to a great football team. 
"I'd have to say," he concluded, "that this is the finest team I've had in my ten years at Notre Dame. This team had theenthusiasmof the 1964 club, and the skill and ability of my 1966 team. And we had immense leadership-no tP.am has given me better leadership. 
"Of all the teams I've coached, this is the best all­around." 
During the course of the regular season, from September 22 to December 1, Parseghian's Irish convinced ten opponents that they were, indeed, Ara's best team at Notre Dame. 
On New Year's Eve in New Orleans, they convinced 85,000 fans in the Sugar Bowl, some 40 million TV viewers and the AP pollsters, that they were not only Ara's best but the nation's best as well. 






