

Oa The Inside 
Fraternity death ... page 2 Senior Trip ... page 4 
serving the nofre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 48 Thursday, November 14. 1974 


Longcoal strike no threat to ND 
by Paul Young Staff Reporter 

Despite the repercussions of Tuesday's coal miner strike, the Notre Dame power plant has enough coal stockpiled to heat the campus for almost four months, if it is a mild winter. disclosed William Ganser, chief engineer at the plant. Ganser asserted, that regardless of the weather, there is at least 3 months heating supply. 
J:<'r. Jerome Wilson, vice president of business affairs for the University Pxpressed a more optimistic outlook on the coal situation predicting. "We won't run short even if the strike runs until March." Although, if the strike forced drastic measures, heat might be cut off after daytime hours as a last resort, he suggested. 
The strike is crucial as the steam produced for heating purposes is primarily derived from coal, with oil providing "only 15 to 20 percent of the total fuel," according to Ganser. This oil is much more expensive to purchase than coal. 
The chief engineer indicated that the power plant had been burning gas for the last seven months at a a much lower cost than burning either oil or coal, but this source had been cut off as of Nov. 1. He added further that gas will not be 

available as a heat source for the next five months. 
The cost of coal has risen, indicated Fr. Wilson, "from $14.50 to $34.50 per ton from last fall to this fall." Over the last two years "the fuel budget has increased from approximately $1.5 million in 1973-74 to the present $2 million which an estimate of $2.8 million for next year," he continued. This hike in price is equal to a $100 increase per student, Wilson com­mented. 
{'oat is main source of heating 
According to Ganser, part of the increase was due to the fact that former coal suppliers would not sell to the University this year forcing Notre Dame to search out new sources. The result was a contract with a firm which provided coal transported by truck from southern Indiana. This tran­sportation proved more costly than the railroad services previously employed, and thus, directly affected one cost of heating by coal in general. 
Ganser stressed that the University is in a relatively comfortable position now at the onset of the strike, although he feared to speculate what the situation might be like if the strike is long. ''If the strike lasts three months, there will be a drastic nationwide shortage of key coal related products, such as electricity and gasoline, he predicted. 
Gasner also emphasized that most of 
the power of the midwest is generated 
by coal. He added that other univer­
sities face similar fuel problems such 
as Purdue, which operates on coal and 
oil power sources and Indiana 
University which he indicated might be 
operating on 100 percent coal. 


Both Banser and Fr. Wilson urged students to take a serious approach to conserving energy in view of the fuel crisis. Wilson's main appeal was for students to turn off unnecessary lights, which in wasting electricity depletes the coal supply which the University uses to make most of its electricity. 
Ganser stressed that the purpose of conserving energy would be as much a consideration by others in the same sense as a concern for saving money. "It is more humane that we conserve. for if we waste fuel and must acquire more, other people in other places won't be able to get it." 
A program will be organized as a conservation appeal to the students under the direction of Fr. James Flanigan, chairman of the Art Department. 

Speech boycotted l7f Tekoah 
Aralat urges creation of Palestine nation 
from within the Palestinian Arab governments themselves.­on the Palestinian Arabs,"As Arafat spoke, he raised
I By BRUCE W. MUNN community. It is not represen­..as an instrument for waging
his arms above his head and Tekoah said. "it will not be (; UNITED NATIONS (UPI) his jacket rode up to reveal tative of the Palestinian com­terror warfare against Israel. tolerated by the Jewis of Palestinian guerrilla leader what some observers thought munity. It is a creation of the ''The PLO will not be forced Israel." Yasser Arafat, speaking at a was a gun hoster at his belt. 
heavily guarded U.N. General 
But PLO spokesman Shafiq El Assembly, urged creation Hout denied that Arafat was Construction begins
Wednesday of a Palestine 
armed. nation in which Arab, Jew and At least 35 delegations walked 
Christian could live in peace. out as Tekoah took the rostrum 
LaFortune renovation underw-ay 
But Israel denounced Arafat's at the afternoon meeting. The delegation as "murderers." Arabs were joined in the 
be made into a ticket office for the room to another location andIsraeli Ambassador Yosef by Ellen Syburg
walkout by China, some African Student Uniori. On third floor the creation of an information centerTekoah boycotted Arafat's Starr Reporter

countries, and some other so­space will be added to the Dome in that area. Blitch also explained speech but spoke a few hours called Third World nations, Construction of new stairwells in office. When the north end is that a door will be added to connectlater from the same rostrum, matching the Israeli delega­LaFortune, the most recent phase completed the new space on the that room directly to the Huddle.

declaring that Israel never tion's boycott of Arafat's in the building's renovation, should second floor will be added to the He added "That improves thewould permit establishment of speech in the morning. 
be completed in three and a half student government offices and the traffic pattern and facilitates theArarat's Palestine Liberation Referring to last month's 105­weeks. According to Ron Blitclb third floor area will be used as a reorganization of the lobby." . _Organization anywhere in 4 vote by the U.N. General 
an architecture student working on dark room by the. Observer. No major structural work isPalestine. Assembly to invite the PLO to the new plans, "The south stair­Blitch discussed other reo­planned for the basement of the
"I have come bearing an participate in the Palestine 
well should be completed within novation plans, "The main lobby is building. "We want to refurnish it olive branch and a freedom debate, Tekoah said: several days and work on the north our next priority. We hope to have in some manner that can ac­fighter's gun," Ararat said in "On Oct. 14 the United stairwell is scheduled within the plans finalized by December comodate both the coffee househis precedent-shattering ap­Nations hung out a sign reading several days and work on the north 15th." The university architects and Darby's Place, harmonizingpearance before the U.N. 'murderers of children are stairwell is scheduled to begin toured the area last week and are the atmosphere and furniture"I am a rebel and freedom is welcome here.' 
immediately thereafter." now working on plans to refurbish needs of both places," Blitch said. 
my cause," said the pudgy, "Today, these murderers This renovation will provide a the lobby. He explained that he hopes allfive-foot-seven-inch Arafat, have come to the General 

continuous stairway from the first Blitch explained that the lobby of this work will be completedwearing a black and whi~e 
Assembly, certain that it would to the third floor of the building. painting, flooring and electrical before the end of the school year.checked Arab headdress. But do their bidding." Blitch added, "It makes for more work would be completed over the "With that work done, we will be
Tekoah argued that the

he added: efficient use of the space we have Christmas break. "After that it's ready to start work on the Huddle "The Palestinian revolution Palestinians already had their available." The old stairway from just a question of how long it takes which cannot begin until the 
does not, under any circum­own country in Jordan. the second to third floor are being for the furniture to arrive. We students have left." He added that stances, consider the Jews as "Without the Palestinians," removed. hope that the lobby will be com­five consultants are working on
he said, "Jordan is a state

enemies. Our revolution is not At the south end the space pleted by February." plans for the Huddle and that final 
without a people ... 

predicated on any racial or created by the removal of this Other plans include transferring architectural decisions would be religious basis." staircase on the second floor will the contents of the Tom Dooley , made next semester.
"The PLO did not emerge 
·­
the observer Thursday, November 14, 1974 

~--------------------------~ 
warld briefs 
NEW YORK <UPII-A small army of police kept fights between Israeli and Arab ·supportors to minor scuffles Wednesday outside 
U.N. headquarters where Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat spoke to the General Assembly. Police arrested four persons after fist­fights broke out. 
ROME <UPil--Americah Senators and Congressman Wednesday joined the head of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization in urging President Ford to respond promptly to a demand for an additional one million tons of U.S. food aid for hungry nations. 
WASHINGTON .,.. .,United Mine Workers and coal companies approved a contract late Wednesday for submission to some 120,000 striking UMW coal miners in 25 states, according to a union source. Terms of the tentative contract. were not announced at first, but the strike was expected to continue another 10 days to two weeks while the union submits the pact to members for ratification. 
WASHINGTON <UPil--Army Secretary Howard H. Callaway Wednesday released parts of the long-secret Peers report on the cover-up of the My Lai massacre, and said he personally believed that improved military training and attitudes could prevent any recurrence. 
SHREVEPORT, La. <UPH-The Pentagon's top research of­ficials said Wednesday there is evidence the Soviet Union now has a missile almost as accurate as the best U.S. ICMB and powerful enough to destroy American missiles buried in silos. 

an campus t:aday 

11: JOam-1: OOpm----informal discussion, hall marc Iafortune lobby 
3:30pm----lecture. "walt whitman,•~ charles felnberg mem. 
library rare book room 
4:00pm---colloquium, "are the molecular details of charged particles 
tracks of Importance to the understanding of the subnanosecond 
domain In radiation chemistry?" conference rm. of lab. rad. 
4:00pm----lecture, "metallngulstlc tasks with children." rm 117, 
haggar hall 
5:00-6: 30---collection students from the hunger coalition will be distributing pledges and signing people up for the rice meal which will be held nov. 26, outside the dining halls 7:OOpm---workshop, notre dame credit union workshop, rms. 100-104 of cce. 

7:30pm----lecture, "heinrich. boll" by norman michaud, regina south audit. 
8:00pm ·--panel "ethics of food, population, and energy" with rev. edward malloy, edward manier and basil o'leary of the theology, philosophy and nonviolence departments respectively, library lge 8:00pm---stage play, "the apple tree" presented by new york theatre co. o'laughlin aud. tickets $3.00 for non-students, $2.00 for students. 8pm and lOpm---movie "a man for all seasons." eng. aud. $1.00 8:00pm---concert, yes. only bleacher seats left, ace 

Nixon to be discharged from hospital Thursday 
LONG BEACH, Calif. <UPI) -Lungren who has said Nixon Richard Nixon will be discharged should not be subjected to undue 
from the hospital Thursday to stress for up to three months, recuperate at home from surgery stated he was certain a three-man for a phlebitis condition, his team appointed by Judge John 
physician said Wednesday night. Sirica "will examine the patient Dr. John Lungren also said he and his records in an objective welcomes an examination of the manner." 
former President by outside Despite some trouble with high doctors to determine whether blood pressure, Lungren gave Nixon is well enough to testify at Nixon an okay for the Watergate coverup trial now dismissal from the hospital. underway in Washington. Hospital spokeman Norman Nager Nixon underwnt surgery at Long said he could not set an exact time Beach Memorial Hospital Oct. 29. for Nixon's departure. 
That same day he went into shock In an earlier medical bulletin and remained in critical condition Wednesday, Lungren said for several days. Nixon experiences sharp rises 
The examination by the outside in blood pressure even when he 

doctors will be conducted at the is not subject to a great deal of Nixon estate in Sal Clemente, stress. Calif. (continued on page 3) 




Pittsburgh Club 

Thanksgiving Bus 
Leaves VVed. 1:00 1\ferrbers $25 Signups Non-Members $28 Sunday f\bv. 17 
6:30P.M LAPCIU~E ANPH. 

Seven charged with murder 
Fraternity pledge ends in death 
LONG BRANCH, N.J. <UPI) "grave" he dug on the beach Stonesifer said all seven
-The hazing death of a pledge collapsed on top of him. charged would be welcome in
led national Zeta Beta Tau Police said five pledges were 
fraternity officials to remove class pending the disposition of
ordered to "dig their own the Monmouth College -Chapter graves" on the beach. They the charges. "A man is from its active rolls Wednes­were told lie in them, presumed innocent until proven
to down 
day. Seven members charged guilty ... We're not going off half
and a handful of sand was 
cocked, which is what a lot ofwith mansUugh .. 'he dropped "symbolically" on 
incident were allowed to people would like," he said.
each. After the sand was continue attending classes. dropped on the third pledge, The other eight active ZBT 
Dr. Richard J. Stonesifer, fraternity members noticed members declined to discuss president of the school, said Flowers' grave had collapsed. the inititation, on the advice of there would be no action by the Charged with manslaughter their attorney. The college college against the seven were Richard A. Pierce, 21, of announced it would establish a fraternity members charged in River Edge, the fraternity memorial fund for Flowers, the death of William E. president; Howard P. Raff, 21, with the proceeds to go for the Flowers, 19, of Neptune, until of East Brunswick, treasurer; education of his 16-year-old after a Nov. 25 court hearing. Robert Caemmerer Jr., 19, brother, Curtis. 
Meanwhile, James E. Greer Allenwood; Bryan M. Seiler, 19, Funeral services were sche­
Jr., executive secretary of the Paramus; Corey S. Wilson, 19, duled Friday for Flowers, a national fraternity, stripped the Oceanside, N.Y.; Frank E. 1973 honor graduate of Chris­seven suspects of their mem­Yavalone, 19, of Neptune, and tian Brothers Academy in 
bership in ZBT and announced Glen A. Hart, 19, of New Middletown and a transfer he had suspended the local Milford. student from St. Peter's College. charter. He said he would recommend a permanent revo­cation at the next ZBT national meeting. The suspension followed the death Tuesday of Flowers, the first black pledge in the local 
Paperback books 


IUG-ZAO

ZBT chapter's history, during a 
Magazines 
Novelty items Paraphernalia 

seashore initiation rite. 
He was smothered when a 
Original paintings




T~~~.
Shopping Center · . _ . 7 -·.~ Art supplies Z 1lL.. fh Mini-mall 
219-256-0111

PrOle lF.&Jrgan QU 1 S 
Miahawab 

L-~~~--------------------------------~ 

lecture cancelled ~----PRESENTI-NG=---~ 
Yesterday's bad weather caused f • f the cancellation of a lecture by 
t the Thursdnu n·1..1..t spec·1al t
Prof. Hans Morganthau, scheduled f -7 !:JI I for last night in the Library f Auditorium. 
f 

According to Student Union 1']' • $1 50 f 
Academic Commissioner Andy f PIZZO --• & Bury, Morganthau's plane, p. h B N. ' 
scheduled to land at 3:59 p.m., ltC er eer 1te f gave up trying to land at the St. Joe 
Airport after three tires. Back in Eat, drink, and be entertained by live f Chicago, Morganthau boarded a music nightly (except Tuesday l AT 
bus that was due to arrive in South t

WI-IlTE HOUSE 1NN
Bendat7:00p.m. Thebusarrived & at 9:45 p.m. ' Bury stated that Morganthau's & lecture "will be rescheduled for Now Playing ' 
sometime in February." r·aRiXi.C:AiiR··: ._cEOgr t 
The Observer is publiShed deity •
• Cr IU rge ' 
during the college semester except ~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• ' 
vacations by the students of the t University of Notre Dame Wid St. 2 8 3 9 N 5th Mary's College. Subscriptions & 
may be purchased for $9 per 683 90 .4'2 ' 
semMter ($16 per year) from The Just 8 mi. north of the state line. -~ t Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. second class Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 5 3 miles. f postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 



~ ----------------­
f················~~--~i~jf~~~~·················~ 
: Hair Care Center for the Sexes
• 
•

•• 
GALS•••Are you completely happy •• with your appearance? No? Let
•
•

• t h e p ro f e s s i o n a I sty Iis t s a t t h e
•
• 

Windjammer help you get just the
• 
: ~~"-CJ!t.'ll~.. 

look you want. 
•
•
•

• : The WINDJAMMER people will be •
• 
• 9 Ia d to h e Ip you look your b est •• : for that upcoming interview. Call : : now! There's never any waiting... i 

: 232-6622 i
. : 
i 1637 Lincoln Way VVest i 
'···································································· 
Thursday, November 14, 1974 
the observer 
3 

Possible totape Nixon's testimony 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 
Associate Law Dean David T. Link said there is a possibility of legally videotaping former President Nixon's testimony in the Watergate coverup trial. 
"It's an excellent idea to videotape the testimony of an ill witness or any witness for that matter," the law and technology expert said. "The film could be used for backup evidence or in case anything happens to the witnesses." 
Professor Link did stress that a personal testimony is best in most cases. "I'd rather see the videotape used as a substitute only if it' saves time and money for court or for the parties," he con­tinued. 

Link said that most courts ac­dept videotaped statements as legal evidence but he also noted that there are some problems. The 
cameraman can have an effect on people's impressions. He can zoom in on a witness wringing his hands or similar actions which may influence the jury. 
The solution to that problem proposed by Link is to have a cameraman who is a neutral of­ficer of the court. The court can then discipline him if he starts editorializing· behind the camera. 
"They have to be careful with sensitive cases like Watergate," warned Link. Someone who knows about law and videotaping should be involved. The person has to be careful not to subjectively edit behind the camera," he stated. 
Another way to solve this problem would be to keep the -camera at one focal point throughout the entire testimony. However this becomes boring to watch and concentration is lost. Link's answer to this is to use a split screen set up. "I think Nixon's testimony should use split or corner screening. They could keep the camerafocused on Nixon and rotate the other corners bet­ween the questioning parties. That way viewers will keep interested in what is happenings," suggested Link. 
According to the dean ther are several situations where videotaping would be an ad­vantage. One is when the witness isn't available. Another is when it :saves money and more citizens could afford to bring suit. "For example," started Link, "doctors are almost impossible to get to testify because they are on call for emergencies. With the videotape, the jury can see the witness testify when they are ready." 
Another advantage of videotaping is film editing. If a lawyer objects to something being said and the· judge sustains, usually the jurors will be asked to disregard the statement. When a videotape is used it can be edited and the jury would never know what was deleted. "The tape compacts the whole testimony," said Link. "It also cuts down on lawyers' theatrics," he added. 
Link started his career with a background in law and the com­puter field. He developed a computer system of law research and was later made chairman of the American Bar Association's 
done in the United States. really understood the case. He 
Link recalls this case. "It was compared it to watching a about a man falling at the railroad television show. yard where he worked. He There have been only 20 to 25 sustained injuries and sued the completely videotaped trials since company. The union steward was the original. The court in Ohio did testifying in behalf of the com-14 trials in eleven days. "The pany, but he was a very nervous judge would come in, give his man in court so we videotaped opening statements, start the film him. After four minutes in front of of the testimony, then go to another the camera he talked calmly and court and start there. After the the judge told me later that it was trial was over the judge would give the calmest testimony the steward his closing statements. The whole had ever given. trial process is speeded up," told 
The pair-aJ.<;o used the camera on Link. the scene. The victim pointed out Ohio is the only state to change what happened in his testimony their court rulings to allow and the steward did the same for videotape. "Lawyers are pretty his. This aided in the clarification conservative and few courts are of what happened. prepared to videotape," Link 
The jury foreman later said he stated. never really understood a court "I still think it is a good idea to case with all the· objections and take Nixon's testimony and going in and out ·of court all the videotape whether it is used or time. This was the first time he not," Link concluded. 
commission of law an? technology. S'•~c announce~~ 
When Professor Lmk came to i.I..J ~ food Notre Dame, he helped coach the Moot Court, a mock court for law students. One student was having • tr_ouble_delivering ~is case andconservatlonprogra·,.....
Lmk hit on the Idea that a videotape might help. He borrowed Dr. Emil T. Hofman's videotape equipment, filmed the student presenting the case and let the student see himself." "This type teaching aided him im­mensely and he went on to become the Moot Court Champion," concluded Link. 
Two years ago Link and another law student did a complete videotape testimony in Ohio. This was the second complete taping 
Nessen announces shake-up 
•
1n his White House staff 
(continued from page 2) he did not want to oecome involved in any "political"
No date was set for the 
ramifications about his pa­examination of Nixon by the 
tient's ability to testify.
doctors appointed by Sirica, but they were instructed to report "My colleagues and I will their findings to the judge by welcome the examination by Nov. 29. the court appointed physi­
Lungren announced he would cians," Lungren said late hold a news conference Thurs­Wednesday. day morning to discuss Nixon's The three-man team named health. He has said repeatedly by Sirica includes Dr. Charles 
No new clots 



Nixon released today 
WASHINGTON (UPl) -Press Secretary Ron Nessen Wed­nesday announced a long an­ticipated shake-up in his White House staff, including a new assignment for Nixon holdover Gerald L. Warren. 
Warren, 44, a former assistant managing editor for the San Diego Union who serfved as chief spokesman for Richard M. Nixon in his last year of his presidency, will continue to serve as deputy press secretary with new duties. 
Warren's new taks will be to serve as a liason with other government public information officers and editors and broad­casters outisde of Washington-a job similar to that of White House communications director previously held by Herbert Klein and Ken Clawson. 
Nessen said that John W. Hushen will remain his deputy in the press office. Paul Miltich, who was President Ford's press secretary when Ford was the vice­president, will become a special assistant to the President and 
perform various writing assign­ments, including presidential statements and correspondence. 
Tom DeCair, another Nixon holdover, will continue to work as an assistant to Nessen in the press office and Bill Roberts, one of Ford's vice-presidential spokemen, was name das assistant press secretary to deal with the electronic media. 
Nessen also announced that Larry speaks has been promoted from staff assistant to assistant press secretary to work under Warren and Louis M. Thompson Jr., of Ames, Iowa, will be an assistant press secretary in charge of administration. Thompson, a retired Army mjaor, previously has served as a public affairs spokeman in Vietnam and at the Pentagon. 
Andrew Falkiewicz, currently a deputy press secretary, will be returning to the foreing service. His replacement will be another career foreign service officer, Edward Savage. 
Jim Holland, who served on Clawson's staff, has resigned. 
A. Hufnagle, chief of surgery at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington; Dr. Richard S. Ross, a cardiologist from Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, and Dr. John Spittell Jr., a cardiologist from the Mayo clinic in Rochester, Minn. 
The reports of Nixon's hypertension and jumps in blood pressure under minor stress posed a problem of how he would react to a checkup by outside doctors to determine whether he could even give a deposition f6r the Watergate trial. 
·Lungren said consideration was being given to administer­ing antihypertensive medication to combat the high blood 
pres~?ure. 
The Wednel?day report said Nixon's lungs had been scanned in the hospital's department of nuclear medicine Tuesday. 
Dr. Earl Dore said the examination showed "nearly complete resolution" ( dissol­ving l of a small blood clot in the right lung. 
Dore said there were no indications of any new clots in the lungs. 
WAITRESSES NEEDED AT FAT WALLY'S 
2046 
So. Bend Ave. 



277-0570 APPLY IN PERSON 
by Cathy Busto 
Staff Reporter 

A food conservation program at St. Mary's was announced yesterday by Crawford Caswell, director of SAGA, the St. Mary's College food service. "It is not just a matter of saving money," Caswell said. "We are fortunate people. In Bangladesh people are starving." 
Charlie Flaim, manager of the food service, described the origin of the conservation program. "The whole program was in­stituted by some of our mana_gers within the SAGA Food Service Company who are concerned about 
ecology and the future," he ob­served. 
To help alleviate the world food crisis, the managers set up a six week program. Each week em­phasizes a particular theme. Last week; orientation week, the theme was "It pays tope. a clean plater." This week the theme "savea tree" emphasizes conserving paper and wood products such as napkins, for example. 
According to Caswell, the 


O'CONNOR 
.&.&.& 

program er:tploys basically the same princi1-•les as the ecology program that Coca Cola sponsored at Notre 'Dame last year. However, the managers used their own ideas. Flaim noted that in a couple of SAGA-run food services napkin wastage has been reduced 40-50 per cent simply by reminding 
people  to  be  thrifty  with  the  
resources they have.  
Caswell  added  that  "in  those  

areas where we are able to measure waste, the information will be relayed to the students." To stimulate support for the program, students will give out candy and other items to people who have "done good deeds con­cerning ecology," such as eating all the food on their plates, etc., Flaim said. The idea, according to Flaim, is to :reward students who help the program. 
Employees will also wear twelve different pins, each one em­phasizing a different theme. Flaim concluded that "a few dollars saved can go towards next year." "Each year affects the 
. next," he added. 
NINE 



LAW AND DISORDER 
Phone 288·8488 for times & directions 
THE TACO IS HERE 
Eat Here 35~ Carry-Out 
}****** IF YOU BUY TWO ******** 
t HAVE THE SECOND F~ 20¢ : 

~ VVITH THIS AD. t ********************************* 
All Week Nov.1.4 Thru Nov. 20,1974 

ST. MARY'S COFFEEHOUSE 
Below Dining Room 


the observer 'Thursday, November 14, 1974 



Students pledge to forego normal meal 
by Gregg Bangs 
Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition took pledges outside the dining hall yesterday at dinner for the purpose of getting students to forego a normal dining hall meal in exchange for a bowl of rice and a cup of tea. This meal, will be served in the dining halls Nov. 26. 
Flights finalized 
Sr. Class trip scheduled 
by Mauri Miller Staff Reporter 
"With Ohio State's loss over the weekend, the enthusiasm for the senior . class trip has become fanatical," said senior class treasurer Chris Fenn. Plans for the trip to the Southern Cal football game over the Thanksgiving holidays are now being finalized. 
According to Fenn, 617 students have signed up for the trip and are scheduled to fly into Los Angeles Wednesday, Nov. 'l:/ in 3 chartered planes. 
Each plane has its distinct feature, Fenn said. The TWA, for example, has the fewest number of minors, and will be the best stocked flight of the four. "There will be a waiting room set up for our TWA people, where drinks will be served. In addition, there will be an open bar on the plane serving free drinks for anyone of age." Fenn pointed out that the three 

Hockefeller testifies on 
•

campa1gn contributions 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Nelson 
A. Rockefeller disclosed Wed­nesday that for each of the 15 years he was governor of New York he and his family spent an average of more than $1 million on his political campaigns. 
And during that same period, Rockefeller told the Senate Rules Committee hearing on his nomination to be vice president, he contributed another $1 million of his own money to the political campaigns of others. 
Rockefeller said the family funds were spent on four suc­cessful races for governor and three unsuccessful bids for the Republican presidentail nomination. 
His breakdown: -About $2.25a2$8,: my most en­thusiastic and generous backer, my stepmother, the late Martha Baird Rockefeller." 
Rockefeller testified Wednesday that he gave $550,000 to William J. Ronan, head of the New York Port Authority, to help him with "financial responsibilities after retirement." 
In testimony before the Senate Rules Committee which reopened hearings on his nomination, Rockefeller decsribed Ronan as a close personal friend and a long­valued associate. 
Ronan, who is scheduled to testify later, is the most con­troversial recipient of a Rockefeller gift. The $550,000 he received was by far the largest among the $2.5 million in gifts and Iones Rockefeller made to political associates. 
Ronan had been Rockefeller's chief of staff when he was New York governor and was later appointed to head New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority and later the Port Authority. 
Rockefeller testified he never other flights will also provide beverages accordingly. Fight laws restrict drinking to those legally allowed to drink and say that the point of departure determines the legal drinking age. 
The main feature of the United Airlines flight is that it will depart from South Bend rather that from Chicago. "This means an extra three hours of sleep Wednesday morning for our United people," stated Fenn. 
As far as locating men and women evenly, TWA and United forced a revision in seating arrangements. "Neither TWA nor United recognize St. Mary's as part of the Notre Dame group, so the two American 707's will include everyone from St. Mary's. This means approximately a 50-50 ratio on each of the American planes," Fenn said. 
The $230 trip will include a round trip ticket to Los Angeles with a meal on each flight, five nights at Following the meal, Father Hesburgh will say Mass and preach on the world food crisis in Sacred Heart Church at 11:00 p.m. 
All money saved by the dining hall through serving the less ex­pensive meal will be forwarded to hunger relief groups. 
"We would like anybody in­terested in participating in this 
intended to influence Rona'n in his duties. He said he made the loans in amounts ranging from $50,000 to $150,000 between 1962 and 1969. He forgave the loans, and gave Ronan $40,000 more, in 1972. 
"I recognize that, because of the size of the loans and my gifts, that many feel that there must be something more to this than friendship -that maybe I was trying to buy influence for some personal gain or personal power," Rockefeller said. 
dinner to sign up on either Wed­nesday or Thursday night," said Mary Ann Roemer coordinator of the Coalition. "We would like all members of the Notre Dame community to take part in this meal. This includes students, faculty members and their families and all community members sympathetic to the 
the International Hotel, bussing between airports and point of departure and arrival, and a game ticket. Any group which has a person at elast 21, will be provided with a rental car upon arrival at the hotel. A slight fee may be charged the driver for insurance, but there will be unlimited mileage for each car. 
Fenn pointed out that one of the major spots of interest would be the "swinging" Marina del Rey district, which is only a short distance from the hotel, and a very good area for night entertainment. Other nearby places of interest include the Hollywood Park racetrack, Knott's Berry Farm, Universal Studios, two 18-hole golf courses, beaches, Disneylpnd, Beverly Hills and Marineland. 
The International Hotel offers three lounges, including the world­famous Penthouse Lounge on the fourteenth floor of the building, and also three dinging areas," Fenn commented. 
Packages will be distributed late next week and will include bus fare, plane and game tickets as well as other information. Notice of when and where to pick them up will be gien early next week. 
"There has been a rumor floating that class officers have been showing some people favoritism, and I'd like to clarify this," said Fenn. "We're showing favoritism to anyone who requested it in the form of a memo. 
Any memos we've received requesting adjacent rooms, same flights, etc., have been ac­commodated." 
Fenn added, however, that lists have now been submitted to the airlines and further adjustments cannot be honored. 



BIAK'S 
TAKES OFF ITS HAT TO: Augie Grace 
and the Junior Class of Notre Dame 
Thanks for making it work! 
starving people of the world." she said. 
Roemer emphasized that all people interested should sign up as soon as possible because "we need to have an approximate number in order to estimate how many peple will be taking part in this meal." 
This combination dinner-Mass event is the first of a number of activities planned by the coalition for this year. Included among the possible activities are a possible Lenten fast and several group panel discussions on the problems caused by world hunger. 
One of these discussions will take place tonight in the library lounge at 8:00p.m. and will deal with the "Ethics of food, population and energy." Edward A. Malloy, Edward Manier and Basil O'Leary 

r ­
I 
NOTRE DAME 
FRESHMAN PREREGISTRATION FOR ARMY BOT(' 
Preregistration for the Freshman Army ROTC Spring Session will be held Nov. 14~21, 1974. 
No military obligation is incurred during Freshman and Sophomore years, and by enrolling, you become eligible to compete for a two-year Army ROTC scholarship during your Sophomore year. It pays full tuition, for books and academic fees, as well as $100 per month subsistence allowance. Even without a scholarship, you receive $100 monthly in your Junior and Senior years. 
Army ROTC can offer you a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the US Army Reserve concurrent with your graduation from college with a starting salary of $10,000.00 a year in addition to other liberal fringe benefits. 
If you then decide to leave the Army, you'll find that employers realize that a young graduate who possesses the attributes of leadership essential for Army officers is an excellent addition to their firm. 
The Army ROTC course consists of two class hours per week and is open to all Freshmen at NQtre Dame or other nearby cross-enrolled colleges. Course hours can be arranged by telephoning Major Jim Musselman at 283-6264 or by contacting him at the Notre Dame ROTC building. 
of the Theology, Philosophy and Non-Violence programs, respectively will be the panelists. 
The Notre Dame Hunger Coalition is an organization of Notre Dame community members interested in helping combat the world hunger crisis. The coalition is made up of the Students in the non-violence program, CILA, Campus Ministry and other con­cerned people. 
The program is not restricted to the Notre Dame campus. The St. Mary's International Club Dinner recently sent all of its proceeds to the cause of World Hunger. 
Anybody interested in joining the coalition should contact Mary Ann Roemer at 6536. St. Mary's students should contact Rita Cassidy or Debbie Dunlap. 

--~-~-~ ---~~--~---·--------------~-------~------------------... Thursday, November 14, 1974 the observer 
5 

UMW re.ach tentative agreement 

By CHARLES E. FLINNER railroad industries and promis­cent of the nation's soft coal. WASHINGTON (UPI) _ The ing further serious disruption of About 10 days will be needed 
for the union ratification vote,United Mine Workers union the already shaky economy. 
and the first step -summoningreached tentative agreement UMW President Arnold Miller members of a 38-memberwith coal mine operators on a told a news conference "it's a bargaining council to considerthree-year wage contract very good contract. It's one I 
the agreement -was begun
Wednesday night, and both can sell to the membership." 
right away.
sides said they expected miners Nicholas T. Camicia, presi-Economic provisions of theto ratify it and end their strike dent of the Bituminous Coal tentative agreement included awithin two weeks. Operators Association, said the 9 per cent wage increase now,The agreement, carrying a 15 pact "certainly will affect the with 3 per cent more in each ofper cent wage increase spread price of coal" but that the second and third years; aover three years, was reached increased productivity to be cost of living escalator clause,
less than 48 hours after some expected from it would help 120,000 UMW members struck offset higher wage costs. and a $900 million boost in soft-coal mines in 25 states, The contract covers some pension contributions from coal causing layoffs in the steel and 1,200 mines producing 70 per 
royalties over three years. Non-

Recieves Clark award 
Dr. Craig named to post 
Dr. George B. Craig, director of professors established in 1954 by Physiology and Ecology in Notre Dame's Vector Biology Mr. And Mrs. George C. Clark and Nairobi, Kenya, a member of the 
National Academy of Science'sLaboratory, has been named Clark a bequest from the estate of Clark, Committee on Innovative Ap­Professor of Biology, Rev. James who headed the George C. Clark proaches to Pest Control,T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost, Metal Last Company, Inc. in Governing Board member of theannounced today. Mishawaka until his death in 1960. 
Entomological Society of America,Craig is recognized in-Mrs. Clark now lives in Beverly Executive Committee member ofternationally for his work on the Hills, California, and a nephew, the World Organization forgenetic control of Aedes aegypti, George W. Weber, a 1951 Notre 
the mosquito which transmits Dame alumnus, is president of the Biologic.ll Control and director of yellow fever, break-bone fever, Mishawaka company. the World Health Organization'sencephalitis and many other viral Craig is a research director of International Reference Centre for diseases. the International Centre for Insect Aedes mosquitoes.
Commenting on Craig's ap­pointment, Dr. Bernard Waldman, Author of more than 120 papers dean of the College of Science, published in approximately 30 called Craig "the leading United scientific journals, Craig is a States expert on the Aedes fellow of the American Academy of mosquito biology and counted as Arts and Sciences. He also belongs one of the world authorities in to the Entomological Society of medical entomology." America, the American Society of 
The chairman of the biology Tropical Medicine, the American department, Dr. Paul P. Wein­Mosquito Control Association, the stein, said, "Professor Craig is a Audubon Society, the En­distinguished scientist and teacher vironmental Defense Fund, the who has made significant con­Genetics Society of America, the tributions to our understanding of Izaak Walton League, and many the biology and genetics of other organizations. He serves as mosquitoes. We are honored to consultant to industrial, govern­have him on our faculty ana are mental. private and international 
very pleasead that he was chosen organizations, and is a frequent to be appointed to the Clark Chair guest lecturer at conferences 
of Biology," around the world. The George and Winifred Clark 
Craig joined the Notre DameChair of Biology was created in faculty in 1957 soon after obtaining !971 from a fund for distinguished 
his PH.D. from the University of Illinois. His undergraduate degree in zoology is from Indiana 
University.


Arab-Israeli clash 



over~afat speech 
NEW YORK <UPI) A small army of police kept fights between Israeli and Arab supporters to minor scuffles Wednesday outside U.N. head­quarters where Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat spoke to the General Assembly. 
Police arrested four persons after fistfights broke out. 
The two groups gathered in the street in front of the towering Secretariat Building and shouted taunts at each other across police barricades. But except for the few scuffles quickly broken up by police, the demonstrations were peaceful. 
Security around the U.N. compound was the tightest in a long series of appearances by controversial leaders. About I,000 police were assigned to protect Arafat and his Palestine Liberation Organization re­presentatives. 
Coast Guard vessels patrolled the East River below U.N. headquarters, while across the river security agents were on patrol to prevent any long­distance rocket attacks. 
Police sharpshooters stood guard in skyscrapers overlook­ing the United Nations. On U.N. grounds at least 16 guards were seen brandishing subma­chineguns. 
Security was tightened Mon­day after Russell Kelner, chief of operations of the militant Jewish Defense League, was arrested on charges of threat­ening to assassinate Arafat. 

:~;;;:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::. 
·~~~~:s:G0 ::;~ R:::RANTI 
economic provisions included Miller said he did not improved vacation schedules, "anticipate any problems" in sickness and unemployment the ratification procedure be­protection, clothing allowances, cause "it's a very good health care and safety require­contract" with wage increases ments. and benefits along the lines of 
An estimated 12,000 miner the miners' expectations. jobs would beb)5under 
Guy Farmer, chief negotiatorprovisions specifying helpers 
for the mine operators saidmust be assigned to mining "they've bargained them~elves
machinery now usually handled a very good agreement."
by a single person. If the pact is approved as Miners at present earn from expected and the strike ends $41.25 to $50 a day. The 
within two weeks, no serious proposed agreement would in­industrial coal shortages are crease that to from $57.28 to anticipated although railroads $65.66 a day over its three year 
and barge lines that ship coal term, assuming the cost of likely will continue layoffs until living continues to rise at its mining resumes. present rate. 
Rockefeller denies. fraud and negligence charges 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Vice IRS, "should be further contested" 
presidential nominee Nelson A. and that he may contest them later 
Rockefeller told a Senate hearing although he has agreed to pay the 
Wednesday there was "no additional taxes plus interest. 
negligence or fraud" in the almost "There was no negligence or 
$1 million that he is required to pay fraud," Rockefeller said. "Almost 
in additional federal taxes and all of this additional income tax 
interest. resulted from four adjustments"
Testifying to the Senate Rules involving legal tax questions.
Committee, Rockefeller said the The audit covered Rockefeller's 
Internal Revenue Service came to income tax returns between 1969 
conlcusions over which "tax at­and 1973 and his figt tax returns 
torney and the IRS can and do Rockefeller, 1972, to June 30, 1974. 
differ." 
The IRS audit determined that 
He said his lawyers advised him Tockefeller owed additional in­that the adjustments in his federal come taxes amounting to $820,718income and 1gift taxes, made by the and additional gifttaxes of $80,621. 
STUDENTS OF ARCJ-IITECTURE 
PRESENT 


URANUS 
BEAUX -ART BALL 
MUSIC BY TALISMAN 16 NOV. 1974 9:30 P.M. 
ADVAt\JCE TICKET SALES ONLv 
$5.00 PER COUPLE ON SALE AT ARGI. LIBRARY 




REACT 
WORLD HUNGER· DINING HALLS· NOVEMBER 26 
This week, as the World Food Conference ends in Rome, some 10,000 people will have died of starvation in Africa, Asia, Latin America. Many here at Notre Dame feel that something can be done about this crisis, in the short run and in terms of long run strategies. 
On Tuesday, November 26, Fr. Hesburgh will say Mass and preach on the food crisis at 11:00 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
During supper, 5:00-6:30, on that day the Notre Dame community .. students faculty, administration, friends from South Bend·· plan to share a meal. This i~ the first of a year's activities to allow us a small taste of what millions feel daily and, possibly, to save some money that can be sent to the suffering. 
We are inviting students to give up their regular meal in the dining hall and to join some 3,000, we hope, of the community in one or both of the dining halls for a bowl of rice and a cup of tea. To carry out this plan, we are asking you to pledge to forego the regular meal served that evening and to give us your dining hall number so that the Food Services will know not to expect you. 
:.:.:_:. TRY OUR GOUNTRY FRIED Q-lrvi:N :.:.:.:.
'-"'= 

!j~(SPECIALS ON lUESDAY AND THURSDA~~~) 
~ I U Phone 272-9720 for carry-out service ~~~~ ~~~~:::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=::::::>:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::=:=:=:=:::=:=:::=:::::::::::::::::=:::::=:=:=::8::::::=:=:::=:::::=:~:~: 
I will not eat the regular meal in the Dining Hall on Tuesday evening, 
November 26, and I will join in the rice and tea meal. Name____________________ _ Dining Hall No. ________ 
Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition 
'-----------------------------~----------------------~ 
5 2 8 6 0 U . S . 3 1 N o r t h
lll lill-·-···-·-··-······..···--···············-···--··-----····························.......................·-··········-··---··········--···­
6 the observer Thursday, November 14, 1974 
1eft in the 1urch 
-.miiiiiiiUIIIIIIUIIII 

SMC and Hunger 
111111111111111111111111111111111111• 
hut;~ h harman 

The Notre Dame Athletic Department is the prime candidate this we~k for the Ingenuity in Ripping Off the Student Body Award for their excellent maneuvers in regards to St. Mary's student baske.tball tickets. It was not so much the use of nay new te~h.mqu~s, but the combination of two time-honored Ad­mlmstr~twn ploys which was able to cop the much coveted prize. 
The. first of .these ploys was the old Misunderstanding trick, a techn~que wh1~h enables the Administrator to promise them anythmg, .but g_Ive them nothing. Notice that when working out the comprom1se with Bpuffard, Pat McLaughlin merely assumed that 
equal to

everyone an chance Dear Editor: This allows the Administration to slip
St. Mary's wa~ al~o includ~.
compete in virtually every sport Fred Herbst's article on 
by on a techmcahty and 1f anyone complains about being fooled
Dear Editor: regardless of ability . And with "Government profs react to recent 
one ~an always say that notices were sent to the Student Body
The regular Interhall Football this comes a high quality of elections," in The Observer 
President, the Observer, and the Scholastic. The fact that neither 
season will soon end and it will be competition and talent. Because November 8, interested me very 
the Student Body President, the Observer or the Scholastic 
all over for everyone save two there are no doubt students much. As a secretary in the Notre received such notification could always be bl~med in a pinch on 
teams who will vie for the campus competing in intramurals who Dame Community I hold the the Postal Service. ' ' 
championship. And I must say were all-conference, area, or even faculty in the highest esteem and 
The brilliancy i.n the Rip-Off co~es, however, in the timing used. 
that I am personally sorry to see it all-state in high school but would was most anxious to read some of Appar.ently few, .1f any, St. Marys students received notification of 
end, for even through a losing not be able to make it on the their views about the recent the pr1c~ of the t1ckets be~ore the .break, leaving four days at most 
~ampaign I have immensely en-varsity levelat a place such 'iS election. to orgamze a protest. This techmque has been widely used in the 
Joyed myself. When it all started Notre Dame. So that leaves i.1-I sit dismayed because in this past (most ~otably in the old calendar dispute) and usually with 
at the end of September 1 volun-tramurals because for some 01 troubled time we need all of our 
gre~~ eff.ecbveness. If anyone complains about the lateness of the 
teered my services to help in the these kids there is no way they intelligence working for us, which not~f1catJon, the simple rebuttal is that the announcements were 
coaching of our hall team. At that could go through their college of course means, all of our "in­malled 'a ·week or two' <vagueness is the key) before the break 
time my coaching knowledge was career without competing on some telligent people" voting IN­and that an~ delay must have been caused by (you guessed it) the 
extremely limited and even now level. And so I would venture to TELLIGENTLY. Voting in­Postal Serv1ce. Ara and Bear B~t have nothing say that the best interhall football telligently is, in the end, a perhaps 
An~ thus, through the ingenious use of Administration 
to worry about but 1 have learned or basketball team on campus complicated, but really a very 
techmques, few St. Mary's students will be present at the 
something and tht-refore for me it could give a fair share of small simple procedure. Complicated 
basketball games and those that are in attendance will be seated off 
has been somewhat of a success. 1 college teams a good run for their because machine voting requires 
to on~ side. The especial tragedy of the situation can, however, be 
would like to thank all those who money if not beat them altogether. sophistication-you have to THINK 
seen m the fact that St. Mary's students were told not to protest too 
helped--the players, other coaches, This may not be true but to even as you look at all those levers. 
vehe.mentlr for fear that St. Mary's basketball ticket sales would 
and especially the Interhall consider it is really saying Simple really, because all. you 
be d1scontmued altogether in the future. 
program. something for intramurals. have to be is informed before you 
While no one denies the right of the Notre Dame Athletic 
The intramural (or interhall as it I sincerely hope that this ex-go to the polls; and then lever 
Department to charge higher prices for non'Notre Dame students 
is referred to here) program here tensive intramural program can selection becomes easy. My point 
<althoug~ no one has seemed to notice that season football and 
at Notre Dame has to be one of the continue to function at its present is simply this_ If this great country 
hockey tickets are priced identically for Notre Dame and St.
best in the country. When 1 tell capacity in the future. It would be ever falls it will fall because of 
Mary's students l, t~is has certainly not been the policy in the past. 
people from other schools or just a terrible shame if for some party-lever pullers at the polls. I As everybody and h1s brother has already stated, it does nothing to
visitors to our own campus the reason, let's say financial for one mentioned I sit dismayed--it is 
prop upthe already decayingrelationshipbetween the two schools. 
extent to which intramurals is ~he program had to fold. I say give difficult to imagine the Notre 
Ap~arentl~ t.he turning point came two years ago when the St.
competed they can hardly believe 1t whatever money it needs to Dame Community so noted fo~: 
~ary s Adl?m1stration was faced with what has turned out to an
it. I have talked to no one whose carry on because this is truly a intelligence having. among its 
msoluble dllemma. If they had chosen then to merge with Notre
school has eleven man tackles great student service here at honored teaching staff a dyed in 
Dame, they would have been swallowed whole with scarcely a
football with all the necessary duLac. Maybe some other the wolllever-puller, but according 
trace. It seems the second alternative has proven to be hardly
equipment provided at no cost. members of the Notre Dame to Mr. Herbst's article, one of our preferable.This is something in itself to say community should take a lesson community entrusted with the HUNGER nothing of the variety of other from something that is truly teaching of others announced that 
Apparently Notre Dame's campus is soon to be blessed with a • 
sports and tournaments available. operating with the students in he had voted a party line because 
Feed the World campaign. So far this crusade has resulted in a
Th.;s is an amazing program. mind all the way. Many thanks, "his family always has." 
number of panel discussion groups and a· plan to boycott meals on
But this is the way it should be. congratulations, and votes of Wouldn't it be interesting if his 
the 26th.
Tl':!s program is probably the best confidence for the future to the family were so long established on 
The trouble w.ith such a p~an is that, with the probably exception 
tru~ student service offered at this lnterhall program. Keep up the these shores that his first 
of the boycott, 1t goes no distance toward solving the problem. I 
umvt.!rsity. This program, not just good work! forefather voted TORY? 
have yet t~ see a panel discussion contribute anything toward any 
fMlhall but all sports, gives Pat Keefe Ryan Welsh hungry child anywhere. It's certainly not as if all the BS spread around could be used to fertilize Ethiopian crops, and yet three more events are scheduled for this month. The planned boycott of meals will undoubtedly be a more popular a.nd more useful device for combating world hunger. The food serv1ce has agreed to contribute money toward relief for each of the m~als missed, and the turnout will hopefully appraoch so per ce~t. Still, these rloycotts and, indeed, the whole new fashionable phllosoph~ ~fEat Less are da?gerous. They have a tendency to produce a I ve done.my share. ?~tlook and a deceptive concept on the part of the abstamer. Abstammg from meat once in a while in no way causes the ~uto~atic transfer of grain to the needy of the world. Soemone will still have to go out and buy this 'excess' grain and pay to have it shipped. ~hat is needed more are efforts to raise cold hard cash. Toward th1s end AI Sondej with his '1 penny is equal to 1.6 bowls of porridge' has dbne more good than all the discussion groups, lectures and boycotts yet. Through his raising of close to $600 each and ~very week, he has done more good than all the discussion groups, lec­tures, and boycotts yet. Through his raising of close to $600 each and eve~y week, he has shown a consistent dedication which will no doubt still be around even when it will no longer be fashionable to worry about world hunger. A~ though I would still approve of a voluntary meal plan as a more eqUitable arrange~ent than the present mandatory sytem, it appe.ars that Mr. Pnce of the Food Service is not the black hearted vlllam I portrayed him to be in my last column. From what has been s~id, he does seem genuinely concerned about students. My
OOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
apolog1es for personal attacks. IIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
X 
the observer 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Night Editor: Andy Praschak 
Asst. Night Editor: Martha Fanning 
Layout: Sue Zwick, Marlene Zloza 
Copy Reader: Pat Hanifin 
Day Editor: Greg Bans Editorials: Ken Girouard 
Features: Andy Peavler, Robert Baker 
Sports: Pete McHugh, Greg Corgan 
Typists: Tom Modglin, Jim Landis, Marty 
Tobin, Barb Norcross, Tim Murphy 
Compugraphic: Morey Blinder 
Picture Screener: Albert D'Antonio 
Nigth Controller: Howard Halle 


in just about any sport they desire if they cannot make it on the varsity level. If you think about it this is the ideal proposition, to give 




-----------------------------------------------------------~------~------------~-----------~----------~--------------------------=~~~~r~------------------, 
Thursday, November 14, 1974 the observer 
7 


Professorin von der Vogelweide calls for a . Disputation According to the University of Paris Rules between Miss Gumms and Professor Buhndoggel on the Proposition "There existed at some time between 100 
A.D. and 1200 A.D. a Viking Settlement on the Notre Dame Campus located under the present-------."! 
Doctor Johannes Clarendon appears kidnapped on eve of his long awaited pronouncement on the grapes! 
The Text of Professorin von der 
Vogelweide's Reply to Polonius T. 
Casaubon, S.J., A.B., M.A., Ph.D., D..D., 
LI.D., Director of the Celter Institute and 
Chairman of the Department of Dead 
Languages, University of Salamanca 
Salamanca, Span secured by our intrepid 
editor for the edification of the Notre Dame 
Reading public from the waste paper basket 
in Professorin von der Voeglweide's Carrel! 
When we addressed the Notre Dame community in our last column it was with unshaken faith in the essential goodness and rationality of its members and no doubt as to our plea's salutary effect upon the miserable Gumms-Buhndoggel Debacle. 
Alas for the trusting in these evil days! Alas for the rare scholar among us (even those whose abilities are as humble as our own) in these days of factions and controversy! Alas and alack for truth! Alas, alack and weladay for pleasant courtesy and sweet disputations in formed in their very punc­tuation by the spirit of fraternal charity! Who shall defend the gentle arts and gracious sciences while they bicker among themselves? Who shall rescue the ignorant, those who dwell in darkness without the benefit of the trivium and quadrivium and good Latin usage--let along Old Norse and lead them into the kindly land of gram­merye? Not this academic community. We appealed and were cast aside like a fool for our child-like simplicity in insisting on charity and truth--out of the mouths of babes, out of the mouths of babes, oh you wretched disterbers of the academic calm! We hope St. Catherine of Alexandria smites you all, everyone. What grief and scandal you have brought to pass--what confusion of honest students and scholars! Think of your good names--what remains of them--have you no shame! No care for what posterity will hear of you? You vainglorious haughty 
few, can you not emulate the sounder, more 
charitable practices of your fellows? Are not cockroach races sufficient, are your energies not consumed by plying the eraser and sharpening pencils under the super­vision of two such scholars at whose feet you might be proud to sit at and learn charity, courtesy and sound method? Is truth served by your kidnapping a learned man of most sweet . disposition and angelic erudition away from his houseplants even as he watered them? Is either of those equally learned adversaries whose cause you supposedly espouse--although in truth we maintain you espose no cause but your own and mischiefs! -aided by outrage against all decency, all academic courtesy? Was not that rock enough, were not those everlasting pots sufficient, that foiled with the ducks you must take your revenge with Claren­don? 
We appeal to those who have stood above· the hysteria of the past weeks to unite behind the aegis of the Royal Geophysical Society and right this most abominable wrong and restore the position of Notre Dame in the world of letters. Be not provoked by this outrage into emulation but rather lend your support to the maintenance of reaso'l. Still the human passions aroused by sympathy for those poor abandoned African violets, those Boston ferns droping from want of a familiar voice, those coleus declining like a Latin noun into their mother dust and lend your voices to us, add your 
influence to ours; for a time has come when drastic measures must be proposed-· imposed if need be. Therefore we call upon Miss Gumms and Professor Buhndoggel to hold disputation with one another according to the University of Paris Rules as laid down by the learned Peter Abeland and adopted by the University of Paris during the chancellorship of Odo. Though they are innocent of any act unbefitting an academic yet they are in some measure responsible for curbing the excesses of their followers and therefore we require of them on pain of dismissal from the Royal Geophysical Society to hold said disputation before the faculty and students of this illustrious in­stitution and defend before them the truth of their theories and their interpretations of their findings. 
In the meantime if the students who kidnapped Doctor Johannes Claredon would return him to his office unharmed we will be pleased to interecede for you with the C.I.A. 




social action and inward study 
While the winter snow swirls downward and the fall semester rushes onward, several Notre Dame students are already busy planning their forthcoming summer. 
Not what one might term typical summer jobs, their tasks may include anything from teaching grammar to perspective nursing students on the Caribbean island of St. Lucia to running a recreation program on a North Dakota Indian reservation to helping organize programs which may solve community related problems in a New Orleans district. This aware and purposeful group of college students are united under the title "Council for the International Lay Apostalate" <CILA) founded twelve years ago at Notre Dame. As CILA expresses in a brochure, "they felt a curiosity, a concern and most of all a need to explore their caring by some meaningful action." 
In addition to their summer projects, the members have initiated programs within the South Bend area in which CILA volunteers tutor Spanish-speaking high school students, visit the elderly, and assist in running a day-care cneter. On a more international level, members are developing "a comprehensive educational and action response" to the problem of world hunger. 


beaux arts ball: frivolous and decadent 
The semi-annual Beaux Arts Ball will be held this Saturday, November 16, in the Architecture Building. The theme is "Uranus, An Intergalactic Extravaganze," one which will certainly draw a crowd of unearthly creatures. The action begins at 9:30, accompanied by the music of "Talisman." 
Tickets consist of a plastic ray gun and instructions on how to build your own rocket. These valuable items sell for $5.00 
er couple and should be purchased in advance at the Architecture Library. A couple does not necessarily have to be two 
embers of the opposite sex. 
The Beaux Arts Ball has enjoyed a long 
istory. It began in France at the Ecole 
Naturally such involvements with social actions result with inward studies, learning experiences, and questioning reflections. As Mary Beckman, one of its members, 
points out, "Each project is not an isolated experience in itself. We share what we've learned with each other." 
Sharing is an important concept with CILA. Its members work and share and grow together through the celebration of the Holy Eucharist, weekend retreats at the beginning of each semester, and various social events. To be mindful of the problems of famine, an occasional meal of rice is prepared and shared among the members. 
To help finance their projects, CILA is presently conducting a Christmas card sales campaign with a booth set up in the library lobby from 11 to 3 and from 6 to 8 Monday through Friday. Supplementing this, money was earned from a film 
screening earlier in the semester. CILA also shares in a collection from one of the Sunday masses with five other community action groups. Alumni members of the organization remain close to the group and frequently donate time, money, and sup­port. 
Last spring, the group was distinguished by being the recepient of the Reinhold Niebuhr award. An excerpt from the citation adds further dimension to the CILA concept: "At a time in the history of our country when cynicism and apathy appear to dominate the lives of so many people, and particularly it is said, the lives of college students, Notre Dame, through its Reingold Niebuhr Award, wishes to honor today an organization that represents a hopeful development in student life on our campus and also represents a great and 
by andy peavler 
positive potential for the future.'' 
Certainly an idealistic cause yet ~one which should be striven for in the hope of attaining world harmony, CILA's main goal is "to work for justice in the world by I serving:. learning, celebrating, and sharing with one another and a multiple of people contacted through a variety of ac­tivities." Students wishing to join the organization should contact either CILA's secretary, Marianne Cleary (4438) or the director of community services, Larry Schlereth (287-0740). 



OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
d'Beaux Arts and was usually held in the fall at the completion of a long project. Students and faculty joined together in an elaborate costume ball that was designed to release tension. The tradition has since been transferred to the United States and has been going on for years at Notre Dame. 
The student chapter of the American Institute of Architecture sponsors the event, with Gene Aleci chairing this semester's ball. It is an inter-departmental affair for architecture students and a chance for them to socialize informally with their professors. 
Balls that have been held in the past have been everything from decadent to frivolous. "A Garden of Earthly Delights" was decorated with leaves, pumpkins, ivy hanging from the balcony, and little mirrors hanging from the ceiling. Five people came dressed as a long caterpillar and someone else slithered in as a snake. Oneenthusiast dressed himself like Pan, complete with fur leggings and grapes in his hair. 
"The SUpermarket Stomp" inspired all sorts of original costumes. One fellow wrapped himself in saran wrap--he was supposed to be a rump roast. Someone came dressed as a carrot and one girl was a bag of jelly beans, accomplished with the help of many balloons. 'The Architecture Gallery was decorated with large posters and price tags. 
"Blimps: Incredible Derigible Boogie" attracted pilots with leather headgear and 
by janet denefe 
airplane costumes. One imaginative girl came dressed as the sky, wearing all blue with stars scattered over her. World War II movies flashing on the walls contributed to the cartoon-like environment. 
Other balls have been "The Age of Decadence," "Grand Hotel," and "Frac­tured Fairy Tales." Each has generated its own unique atmosphere. 
Matt Kubik, publicity chairman (who is currently searching for a pair of silver knee socks!), calls the Beaux Arts Ball "a per­sonal theatre. It is a great chance to fan­tasize, to play the role of someone or something else for a night." Is there any of us who wouldn't welcome the chance to do that? 

the observer Thursday, November 14, 1974
8 

Sniper ambJShes school bJs escort 

By KARL C. LILLY 
CHARLESTON, W. Va. (UPI) -A State Police car escorting a school bus loaded with children was struck from ambush by sniper fire Wednes­day in the Kanawha County textbook feud. · 
Another State Police car was fired upon, but not hit, in the county's fourth shooting inci­dent in three days. It was the first in the 11 week protest in which law officers were the targets. 
The two troopers in the cruiser that was hit, Dan Miller and J. C. Barker, were not injured by the gunfire. The other shooting incidents in­volved empty school buses. 
Troopers Miller and Barker said they did not return the fire for fear of endangering the children. 
Neither State Police nor school officials could say how many children were aboard the bus when the cruiser was hit. 
Classroom attendance was about 75 per cent of the county's 45,000 pupils despite parent's threats to keep chil­dren at home and set up their own schools. 
A State Police spokesman said what appeared to be rifle fire struck the right rear quarter panel of the cruiser and blew a tire. 
Other troopers and sheriff's deputies rushed to the area, known as Five-Mile, in Camp­bell's Creek, just east of Charleston, and the scene of earlier violence. 
State troopers with shotguns and sheriff's deputies searched the heavily wooded area but found nothing. 
The violence this week in the southern West Virginia coal mining area was erupted after the Kanawha County Board of Education voted to return most of a series of controversial textbooks to classrooms. 
Protesting parents contend the books are immoral and unpatriotic. The struggle in­volves who will determine what the county's children will be taught. 
State Police and sheriff deputies began patroling poten­tial trouble spots in the county Wednesday morning after three school buses were struck by gunfire earlier this week. Two were hit Monday night and one Tuesday morning. The buses did not contain children and the drivers were not hit. 
STARTS TOMORROW! 


ThefTrial 
• 

BillYJack 
Starring 

DELORES TAYLOR 
and 

TOM LAUGHLIN \PG\ 

Changing theworld 
isa line idea,but 
where doyou start! 

We asked the same question when we first production and silver recovery. The black enter­found ourselves in a position to make the world prise program not only helps people who aren't a more livable place. well off but also helps stabilize communities in 
At Kodak, we started close to home. In which Kodak can work and grow. Rochester, New York. We cut river pollution with In short, it's simply good business. And one of the most efficient industrial waste water we're in business to make a profit. But in further­treatment plants in the country. We cut air pollu­ing our business interests, we also further so­tion with scrubbers, adsorbers and electrostatic ciety's interests. precipitators. We helped set up a black enter­After all, our business depends on society. prise program in downtown Rochester. So we care what happens to it. 
Why? Helping to combat water pollution not only benefits society but us as well as we need clean water to make film. Our combustible waste 
~Kodak. 
disposal facility not only reduces air pollution 
~ More than a business.
but also helps pay for itself in heat and steam 
~ .................................. ..... 
EVERY EVE. AT 8:00 
Thursday, November 14, 1974 the observer 9 
--~----------~~~~~~~~----~ 

Barnet seeks cooperation in economic crisis 
Dr. Richard Barnet of the In­stitute for Policy Studies, Washington, D.C., called Tuesday for corporations to make certain commitments to cities before they settle in a specific location. 
Addressing participants in the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry conference on"Justice and the Economic System," Barnet said "the old myth that corporations are totally private institutions is in fact not true,'' but, he continued, our cities now are in the same position as undeveloped countries with respect to·· the corporations because they don't know when they're being "milked." 
Barnet suggested that a city should draw up a 'bill of rights' 
Ford critized 
that would require a corporation to adhere to certain rules and commitments. 
The balance of power between the corporation and the com­munity must change, he added, and to be effective, the change must come at both the local and national levels. 
Barnet talked about the possibilities of reform. in the economic system, saying. that "the future is ominous in many ways and the situation is extraordinarily difficult," but that it is foolish not to acknowledge bases of hope. 
"I believe a base exists -in the 
U.S. today for a political movement," Barnet said. "There is a potential majority of Americans who feel themselves to be the 'have nots' in society." He said the .reasons for such a movement are clear: unem­ployment, inflation, the unequal tax structure, and the lack of housing, credit, and health and all social services. 
However, while more poeple are seeing that the establishment is unable to deliver the promises that are part of the American dream, he said, there is another strain of American populism which is reactionary and isolationist, and rests on getting rights for one group at the expense of others. 
Barnet also proposed an alter­native food distribution system to food chains which would be sup­ported by public funds and, ultimately, by a national food co-op fund. 

Speakers for the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry (CCUM) 
Plan 
conference on "Justice and the Economic System" being held at the Univ~rsity of Notre Dame talked together Sunday night before the openmg lecture. From left, Rev. Bryan Hehir, director of the U.S.


NDpanel discuss econo.rnic 
by Lonnie Luna Ford is seeking to cut the im­Staff Reporter portant of foreign oil to 1 million 
President Gerald Ford's economic plan focusing on food and fuel met criticism last night in a panel discussion by three Notre Dame professors. The Ford plan proposes, among other things, increased competition and in­creased taxes to help deter in­flation. 
"Inflation is the problem," said Frank Bonello, professor of economics. He said that 50-60 percent of the inflation is due to the increase in food prices so to combat this Ford has encouraged the farmers to produce more food. lie asked Congress to lift the limitations on rice, cotton and peanuts and also guaranteed the 

farmers an unlimited supply of Prof. Thomas Swartz, member of fertilizers and gas. Wednesday night's panel on the 
On the fuel side of the situation, economic situation. 

So. Africa protests 
JOHANNESBURG <UPll -decision was announced. 
South African Prime Minister Ambassador Both a called it John Vorster Wednesday re­"an act of desperation, not of called his ambassador to the hope. Whatever you do, I say to United Nations and halted all you you cannot suspend our 
financial contributions to the existence, our ideals, our ulace 
world body after the General in this world." · Assembly voted to bar the Botha said he had planued to South African delegation. address the assembly out its, 
"South Africa will decide in president, Algerian Foreii,:"t her own time what the next Minister Abdelaziz B'outeflika. step will be," Vorster said. would not let him speak. · 
Roelof Botha the U.N. envoy, "Precipitate and unrealistic will return immediately to action at the United N'!t!ons Pretoria and remain there does not contribute one iota to indefintely, Vorster said, and the solution of the problems on 
South Africa's annual budge­the spot," he said. 
barrels per day by 1975. Com­menting on the gasoline tas, Bonello said that the addition of a 40 or 50 cent tax would be good in that it would produce a lot of revenue. Bonello also said that a tax like this would possibly curb consumption of the precious fuel. For has asked that the use of fuel oil be eliminated and that electric generators be improved. He has also suggested the prices of natural gas be de-regulated which Bonello said would cause a tremendous price rise. 
To increase competition, Ford increased the penalties for an­titrust violations: for the cor­porations, the fines have been raised from $50,000 to $1,000,000 
and  from  $50,000  to  $100,000  for  
individuals.  
"Maybe  this  will  make  the  

corporations back off and keep their wages and prices in line with the regulations," commented Bonello. Ford also asked for the reduction and publication of fee rates for doctors, lawyers, and other professionals. In response to this, Bonello said that according to this proposal, all doctors and lawyers would have to compete with each other which they would not do. 
When asked if the United States was in a recession, Bonello said it was not as serious as it looked. He added that the economics rule of thumb for determining that a recession is occuring is two con­secutive quarters of GNP decline, and that there is such a decline. The U.S. is in its third quarter of GNP decline and the fourth does not look promising. 
"But I think Ford has taken two small steps in the right direction," concluded Bonello. 


tary contributions of about $1 million have been halted. "The decision <of the assem­
lty

bly) is an example of how the United Nations manages to circumvent its own manifesto to perpetrate an illegal action," 


en's hair Styli!
Vorster said. 
"A body that is continually talking of democracy and wanting to prescribe policies 
~~~ '8 ,(air3tttlin 
for others, finds it impossifle in its armor of self-righteousness to give a member state the right to defend itself," Vorster 
WHATEVER THE STYLE IT'S A 
said. 
.. 
The Tuesday night 91-22 assembly vote to deprive the South African delegation of its rights and privileges for the assembly session which ends 


;;0~~:~~~[][1
Dec. 17 was without precedent in U.N.'s 29-year history. African delegates who fought to exclude South Africa because 
s\1 

HAIR CARE FOR ME 
of its policy of racial separation -apartheid ---{!heered when the 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544 Catholic Conference Division for Justice and Peace, Washington, D.C., Ms. Lupe Anguiano of the Southwest Regional Office for the Spanish Speaking, San Antonio, Texas, and Dr. Richard Barnet of the Institute for Policy Studies, Washington, D.C., join Msgr. John J. Egan, CCUM chairman and a member of Notre Dame's theology faculty. More than 500 priests, brothers, women religious and lay persons active in special ministries have been attending the four day conference to examine economic power and injustice in America and to propose strategies for reform. 
FRIDAY & MONDAY-THURSDAY 7:45 9:45 SAT. & SUN. 1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 9:45 
• nc:1 DDIODELAllllENTIISPresents-,_.·--.
Vi ._,cirystyte-•...
1 ~ "DEATH WISH" . , .. , ----------~~~~~~~~~~~~--------~~:l
FRIDAY & MONDAY-THURSDAY 7:30 9:30 SAT. & SUN. 1:30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:30 
In everyone's "'SUMMER
life th ,. OF '42.... [J!J
ere S a JENNIFER O'NEILL 

U()iler-tl()use ·r=nx 

10 the observer Thursday, November 14, 1974 
One million for Senate campaigns 

Rockefeller reveals contributions 
this year. Reid received $8,000
non)!nation. gubernatorial campaigns and
WASHINGTON <UPI) -At before he became a DemocratUnder the 25th Amendment, $200,000 for George Romney'sleast 17 members of Congress 
in 1973.
both houses of Congress must unsuccessful 1968 Republicanwho will vote on Nelson A. 
Another New York congress­approve a vice presidential presidential bid. RockefellerRockefeller's vice presidential 
man, Peter Peyser, recei~ed
nominee. also gave $62,000 to Richard M.
nomination have benefited from $18,000 in three races for office.
Rockefeller also reported that Nixon's 1968 campaign.
his political generosity, it was Rep. William S. Cohen, R­more than $2 million of his own The remainder constituteddisclosed' Wednesday. 
Maine, a member of the Ho~semoney, plus $13 million more smaller amounts to senators,In• a statement to the .senate 
Judiciary Committee which
from his family, went into his governors and candidates forRules Committee, which reo­votes on the Rockefeller nomi­campaigns for governor of New state and local offices -mostlypened hearinl'(s on his nomina­nation, received $1,000 in bothYork and for his unsuccessful in Arkansas, New York andtion, Rockefeller revealed he 1973 and 1974, although heattempts to win the GOP Maine.
has contributed more than $1 returned the 1974 contributionpresidential nomination. The leading Senate receivermillion to other Republicans when Rockefeller was nomina­Rockefeller's two largest con­of Rockefeller political contri­
over the years -including 
ted.
tributions were $274,000 to his butions is Jacob K. Javits, R­
seven senators and 10 House Other congressmen receiving
brother Winthrop's Arkansas N.Y., who got a total of $23,167members who will vote on his Rockefeller money: John Paul
dating back to the days when 

Hammerschmidt of Arkansas,he was in the House. 
$6,000; Paul Finley of Illinois,
Other Senate recipients:

Burglary prevention for $3,000; Henry J. Heinz II of
Republican Leader Hugh Scott, 

Pennsylvania, $2,000; and $1,000
Pa., $4,000; Edward Brooke, 

apiece for Margaret Heckler of
Mass., $3,000; Charles McC. 

Massachusetts, John Dellen­
Off-Q[mpus students 
Mathias, Md., $1,000; Milton 

back of Oregon and Jack Kemp
Young, N.D., $1,000; Peter 

of New York. Bob Wilson ofby Andy Praschak hand to assist with the MARC Dominick, Colo., $500, and California received $100.
Staff Reporter program. "We are lending the Robert Dole, Kan., $250. 
Former New York CityExplaining burglary prevention engravers to students who provide Of the 10 House members, Mayor John V. Lindsay, who to off-campus students and for­a $6 refundable deposit," said one of those who got the most, also turned Democrat and wasmulating a list of homes to be Wilson. The engravers can be Ogden Reid; said he would run a Rockefeller foe even earlier,surveyed for burglary obtained in the Off-Campus against Rockefeller if he had received $5,000 from Rockefell­vulnerability were the main Housing office in room 315 of the sought re-election as governor er in three earlier congression­purposes of a program held Administration Building between al races.
Tuesday and Wednesday in the hours of eleven and one, Houston Flournoy, who lost inLaFortune Hall. remarked Wilson. 
the California
Sergeant Joel Wolvos of the The survey program will involve 
race last week, received a totalSouth Bend Police Department the inspection of the student's 
of $6,500 from Rockefeller. Most 
was on hand with pamphlets and house to aid the police department it, $5,000, went for his 1974advice for off-campus students in suggesting specific safety ""' campaign.
seeking help in burglar-proofing precautions that can be taken in their homes. "Our crime each home. "We are working 
•

prevention program is having a together with the Off-Campus 
MECHA & CULTURAL ARTS COMM • 
marked effect on the South Bend Office in this effort so that we can •
•

crime rate," said Wolvos. eventually turn the entire program Wolvos emphasized the im­over to them." said Wolvos. portance of using the MARC Wilson added that the response *PRESENTS * 
program, having an auxiliary dead has been good so far, with ap­bolt lock on every door, and using proximately forty students such procedural methods as showing an interest. However, he EL TEATRO TRIANGULAR 
leaving lights and radios on when would like to see more students the house is unoccupied. take advantage of it. "they don't 
The MARC program involves the seem to realize the importance of IN engraving of all valuable items the MARC program," he said. with the owner's social security ~
Wilson concluded that this is one 
'BUFFALO BILL IN GULLIBLELAND'
number. Wolves noted that if chance the students have of doing ­stolen property is recovered, it will something to protect their own almost surely be returned to the property and safety. "Learninng owner if it bears his social security to combat crime in each student's The security situation off-campus SAT. NOV. 16-7 P.M. number. neighborhood is one of the most is so bad right now, that some 
Tom Wilson, assistant director of important aspects of off-campus students have resorted to barringoff-campus housing, was also on living," he said. their windows. WASHINGTON HALL 
Documents re1mved for ''confidentiality" ADMISSION FREE­
•
•

Harvard denies students files DONATIONS ACCEPTED FOR •• 
•
•


EL CAMP/TO DAY CARE CENTER •
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. <UPI> the students. Attorney Harvey Silverglate, • -Harvard University, citing a He said none of the docu­representing the students, said • 
"moral obligation" to protect ments had been destroyed. Buckley "has admitted that he ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• confidentiality, is removing "When a student is admitted just didn't think of this problemdocuments from files to which to Harvard, we ask his parents when he sponsored this legisla­students will have access for a frank and confidential tion, and has stated his 
beginni1g Tuesday. 
letter about the student so we willingness to offer an amend­The university's general can do a better job of advising ment to exclude any communi­
counsel, Daniel Steiner, said the student when he arrives," cations received previouslythere is no law prohibiting the he said. with a commitment of confiden­removal of the documents and "One of the things that's tiality.the university is obliged not to going to be tried is to get in "But until it's amended, let students see documents touch with the authors and see Harvard has no right to flout it. written by persons assured of if they will agree to release And in fact, I don't think they'llconfidentiality. those documents. In cases amend it, because I think the 
"The problem we faced here where that's possible, that's statute says exactly what it 
was that we made explicit what we will do." was intended to say."commitments to the senders of these communications that what they wrote would be held 
FIRST BANK & TRUST TRAVEL 
confidential," said Steiner. An attorney for several 

"GJ CAMPUS" -BADIN HALL 
Harvard students has written Steiner requesting that the university stop removing docu-. 
*SPEOAL XMAS GROUP RATE TO 
ments. Students will be able to see 

LOS ANGELES AVAILABLE ~W 
all their own records next week under a new federal law passed 

-CALL GREG ERICKSON 3687 
as an amendment to the 1974 Elementary and Secondary 
-AIRLINE RESERVATIONS Education Act, sponsored by 
-COMPLETE DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN Sen. James Buckley, R-C, N.Y. 
SERVICES 
Steiner said the documents, 
-REPRESENTATIVE FOR ALL AIRUNES 
many of which are from the 
-NO ADDITIONAL COSI'
students' parents, were being kept elsewhere, and the univer­sity was making efforts to 
PHONE: 283-7080
contact the authors for permis­sion to make them available to 




-------------------------------------------·---­
Gas tax drain British 
By JOSEPH W. GRIGG 
LONDON (UPI) -British motorists drained gasoline sta­tions dry Wednesday in a panic rush to fill up their tanks before a new tax hike boosts the price by up to 15 per cent next Monday. 
Long lines of cars formed outside gasoline stations, block­ing traffic on main highways. 
"Motorists are trying to drain every garage in sight before Monday," said a spokesman for the Automobile Association. 
A Royal Automobile Club spokesman said, "If they keep up the rush, some places will run short before tankers can call again." 
Chancellor of the Exchequer Denis Healey slapped a new 25 per cent tax on gasoline effective next Monday in a cns1s budget presented to Parliament Tuesday. 

T.V. net'Works file application to 
WASHINGTON ( UPil -The three major television networks Wed­nesday formally asked U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica to allow them to broadcast White House tapes introduced as evidence in the Watergate cover­up trial. 
The networks suggested that Sirica 's existing ban on broad­easting the tapes violates con­stitutional guarantees of freedom of the press and fully public trials. 
A formal application was filed with Sirica by the National Broadcasting Co., Inc., the American Broadcasting Co., Columba Broadcasting System and the Radio-Television News 1 Directors Association. 
"The case your honor is now in the midst of tying may well be more important, in a wide variety of ways, than any trials every before conducted in the history of this nation," the application said. 
"Movant those -making the motion seek ... the right to inform the public contents of trial exhibits introduced in evidence which are of overriding national import in the unique way broadcasting can best do so." 
The networks asked Sirica formally before the trial began Oct. I to be permitted to make copies of White House tapes used as evidence to be broadcast. After 
Don'tletthe . 
ma~ 
education stop 
~­

The price of a college educa­tion is skyrocketing. The Air Force has done something about it. For the first time. the Air Force ROTC Scholar­ships include the 2-year progmm. for men and women. 
If you qualify. the Air Force will pay for the remainder of your college .education. Not only do AFROTC 2-year scholarships cover full tuition, reimbursement for textbooks. lab and incidental fees. and $100 a month, tax-free. 
To cash in on all this apply 
qualify. and enroll in the Air 
Force ROTC at Bldg. No. 5 
call Capt. Shepard, 6634 
It's a great way to finish your 
college education in themoney, 
and build a future as an Air 
Force officer. 
MAKE 11IE MOST OF IT 
Officials estimated the tax hike, coupled with price in­creases planned by oil com­panies, will push the price of a gallon of gasoline up 24 cents to $1.53 a gallon as of Monday -a record high price in Britain and a price increase of about 15 per cent. 
Healey said the new gasoline tax was designed to cut oil imports and save the country $480 million of desperately needed foreign exchange. 
The budget was the third Healey has handed Britons this year and he said there will be still another next April. 
They were designed to fight the country's inflation-fed eco­nomic crisis, which the govern­ment has termed Britain's grimmest since World War II. 
Healey pumped $3.6 billion of help into cash-starved industry in a bid to hold back unemployment, which he warned is likely to hit the 1 million mark this winter. 
He also gave help to retired and needy Britons. 
But the crisis blueprint touched off a storm of criticism. 
The Sun newspaper said, "Healey lit the fuse for a new cost of living explosion." 
The London Daily Mail said, "Healey sent a shiver down the spines of almost everyone in Britain." 
Left-wing members of the governing Labor party rapped it as "a budget to help big business." 
Big business was not pleased either. 
Ralph Bateman, president of the Confederation of British Industry, which represents 12,000 industrial companies, said: "We shall not have enough money to keep our business going. We shall not be able to keep as many people in jobs as we would like." 
broadcast White House 
~E 
tapes 

I,EA.~ 
BANANA 
CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES 
10% off on belts with this Ad 
C.AC. CINEMA '75 PRESENTS 
A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS 
Directed by Fred Zinnem 
Starring Paul Scofield Wendy Hiller 
FRIDAY AN> SATlRDAY 
Engineering Auditorium 
7:30 & 10 P.M. 
Admission $1.00 Patrons Free 
11

Thursday, November 14. 1974 the observer 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Will really pay for 2 Pitt GA tix. 7935 after n pm. 
Need 1 GA Pitt tix or life is forfeit! Call Chip, 1059. 
Irish Lampoon needs articles and cartoons. Call 272-8724 between 9 & 
11:30 pm. 

Need many Pitt tix. Call Zen, 233­2352. 
Need ride to Long Island, N.Y., over Thanksgiving. Will drive and share expenses. 1861, Mike. 
Help! I need at least 8 GA tix for Pitt game. I will top the best offer for any ticket for that game. Call 3274 after 11 pm. 
Need 1 or 2 GA Pitt tix. Call Nick, 1553. 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio, Fri. or Sat., Nov. 16 or 17. Call Barb, 4008. 
Need 2 GA Pitt tix. Call 289-9148. 
Please, I need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Camille, 5154. 
Need desperately 2 Pitt tickets. Call Tom, 283-1461. 
Really need 2 GA Pitt tix. Call Monica, 4489. 
Wanted: hotel room Sat. night of Pitt weekend. Call John, 282-1568. 
Desperately need 2 or 3 Pitt tickets. Call 5464. 
Need ride west on 1-80 (Moline areal, Nov. 15. Call Jane 7995. 
Need student tix for P1tl. Call Joe, 3663. 
Please. I gotta have 4 Pitt GA tix by today. Call 287-0076 now. Thanks. 
Wanted: 4 GA Air Force tickets. Call Chip, 6931. 
Need 4 GA Pitt tix. Call George at 287-0067. 
Need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Joe at 289-3751. 
Need 2-4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Bill, 8687. 
Need 3 GA or Pitt tix. Call Norm, 272-4156. 
Need GA tix for Pitt. Call Mike, 288·7946. 
Need 1 Pitt tix. Call Ernie, 1049. 
Needed: stage crew for Dr. John. Call Mark, 288-4125. 
Need ride to L.l. or vicinity for Thanks. Call 1088. 
FOR SALE 
Hanimex 90 -230 mm. Zoom. Thread or Canon mount. Call Joe, 6720, after 11 pm. 
Clean component sound. Dynaco Pat 4 Preamp and stereo 120 AMP. $225 AR manual turntable with Shure M91ED $75. 8456. 
FOR RENT 
503 West Jefferson duplex, 3-room furnished apartments. First and second floors. Gas heat, furnished. 289-6307. 
Room $40 month. Near rides, privacy, kitchen. 233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: man's watch found by Nickle's all :22 a.m. Monday Nov. 
4. Call Kate, 289-3945. 
Found: calculator in Science Hall. Call 8941. 
Found: small,cross on chain. Call 234·2620 before 9 p.m. 
Lost: Texas Instruments SR-56 calculator. Engineering Aud. or Ad Bldg. Reward. 277-0167. 
Lost: wire-rimmed glasses in Carol! Hall. If found, call Karilee, 5703. 
Bose 901 speakers, Dual 1229 turntable, all like new. 255-5414. 
2 YES tickets (15th row). Call8369. Cheap! 
4.5 cubic ft. 1 yr. old refrigerator. 233-2352. 
Ticket for Senior Trip to Calif. $200. Call 1269. 
NOTICES 
World Book used much, stimulating, essential, revised, inexpensive ... Larry, 289-5407. 
lnterhall Hockey Students interested in playing on the off-campu~. hockey team . there will be a meeting in the Flanner Hall pit at 7:30 pm Thursday, November 14. For any information, call Cliff Maison at 272-9895. 
Beatles Illustrated Lyrics No. II now at Pandora's Books, 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
Want something unique? Try Jennifer's Designer's originals. Import clothing, jewlry, 119 W. Colfax. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros. Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to ND-SMC student, faculty, and staff do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0181. 
All Girls invited to Leo MacCourtney's big birthday bash at the White House Inn tonight. For more information, contact Bud at 1373. Happy Birthday won­derland Zoo. 
15 percent off on all merchandise, now until Christmas. Expert repair, quality guitars, banjos, etc. Sunflower Music Shop, 632 Portage Ave. 
Pittsburgh Thanksgiving Bus leaves Wed. 1:00. Sign up at LaFortune amphitheatre Sunday, Nov. 17, 6:30. 
Students: buy your stereo equipment at Golden Dome Records, 804 Flanner, ph 1487. 20­40 percent off on all brands -Ad­vent, AR, BOSE, Dual, Garrard, Marantz, Pioneer, Sony and much more. Over 100 name brands at big discounts. 
Records now on sale at Golden Dome Records, 804 Flanner, ph. 1487. New Moody Blues, $9.98 list, 
reg.  $7.70,  now  $7.20  total.  New  
Elton  John  (just released)  $9.98  
list,  reg.  $7.70,  now  $7.20.  New  

Loggins & Messina $6.98 list, reg $4.55, now $4.25. All Yes albums on sale. Also every Fri is ladies day: $.50 off on all double albums, $.30 off on all single albums. 
Phillips GA 212 electronic turn­table (new> Tharens TO 125 AB MKII with B&O Sp 12 cartridge-2 new walnut advents, call 1487. 
PERSONALS 
The Don: Ashes in your coffee is only the beginning!! 
B.G.Q. 
GOD HELP DOUBLE "D." 
Happy Birthday, Mrs. Scarrot cluck, cluck, cluck! From Reenie 
Beanie and Anna Banana. 
P.S. We hate your dog but you're beautiful is beautiful, so beautiful just beautiful. 
Rosemary: Get with it! I want the Jackpot. Please don't leave my life in jeopardy! 
MM: Welcome back. The doors of LMH are still standing. 
Crackers LK 
Dear Fink: I don't think you are very funny. You really don't understand turmoil, do you? 
The Cripple 
Marsa, 
Should we tell our mother? Chip 
Barb Boylan, I love you. First class at my apt. 
l 1 
l ~ 
4 
j 

, 

12 the observer Thursday, November 14, 1974 
~~~~~~~----­
Jim Stock tough to stop as defense's littlest big man 
by Bill Brink Jim has not always beeen tne and sustain enough emotional little guy on the line. As a six-letter momentum to play more inspiredJim Stock ... Defensive End ... 214 · man and captain of his high school football the rest of the 
season. lbs. 214 lbs! There must be a football team in his hometown of "I'm ready to play Pitt printing error in the program; a Barberton, Ohio, he was the 
tomorrow," he says. "I think a lot slip of the tongue by the an­biggest of the defensive lineman. of people will be surprised with the 
nouncer. A 214 lb. defensive More often than not , he found that Pitt game. Personally, and I hope 
lineman playing next to massive other teams ran away from him I speak for the rest of the team, I 
hulks of 250-265 lbs? instead of towards him. think we can get psyched for that 
But once the game starts, it "It was a big change being the game, and for the rest of the 
becomes clear that there has been smaller guy instead of the bigger games." 
no mistake. No. 48 for Notre guy," says Stock. "Now they If the rest of the team getsDame's Fighting Irish leaves little come at me more. But I'd rather psyched like Jim does, it could be a doubt in anyone's mind that he have them coming at me. You feel pleasant finish for the Irish. Using
belongs there. like you're more a part of the game his uncanny speed, and a heady
There was no doubt in the mind's that way." alertness on the field, he has of Irish fans as they watched his Jim decided to become a part of performed magnificently againststeady defensive play in last year's Notre Dame's game for more than sprint-outs and options, always a 
national championship season. just athletic reasons. "The at­primary concern for a defensive 
And there has certainly been no traction of a small campus, a small end. Jim did a superb job in doubt about Jim Stock's belonging group of people, instead of being helping to contain a dangerousthere this year. His play has just someone in a crowd was im­Miami running game several progressed from steady to brilliant portant," he says. "The football weeks ago, and came up with some 
highlighted by spectacular per­and academics here speak for key tackles in the close contest 
formances against Miami and themselves." with Navy in Philadelphia.Navy. The Associated Press was Despite his brother Mike's While Stock claims that his style 
left with so little doubt that they position here as receiver coach, is nothing unique, his quicknessnamed .Jim defensive lineman of Stock insists that coming here was adds a greater dimension to his the week for his play in the game. his own decision. "He gave me no defensive ability. "I'm more ef­Defensive end Jim Stock closes in on MSU quarterback CharlieStock takes his recent hard sell, in fact, it was less than a fective on options and sprint-outs, Baggett. Stock, the lightest of the Irish front four, will be after Pitt-
recognition all in stride. ""I just soft-sell," Jim says. "He wanted because of my speed," he admits, 
sburgh's quarterback Bill Daniels this Saturday. . 
go out and do my job--if recognition me to make my own decision, "but that's my job. We have a part of the game, saymg "It's a light weight, could make 1t as a comP.s, fine," he says. "I think I'm which I did." good combination of strength and primary part of the team's defensive lineman in college. "I getting noticed more because the Stock admits that freshman year quickness on the line and it's the makeup. We want to school and wouldn't have encouraged him to last several weeks teams have was a little tough, academically quickness I need to fight the sprint­prepare them mentally. It's like come play, if I didn't hink he could tried to go at me, trying to go by and socially. "It's hard not having out blocks and play the roll-outs." chess games." He added that he make it" he says. mt> or out-finesses me. I hope I've open weekends to socialize and Jim's brother Mike added that thought that Jim had adjusted and He had no doubts about his disappointed them." meet people, but it gets better." Jim's plays something verycloseto matured well, and mental brother's place on the team. 
If that is Stock's idea of a Last year's national cham­a combination. defensive end-preparation was surely a big factor Neither does anyone else, now. "disappointing" season, it can only pionship was one big help. "You linebacker·, because he has the in Jim's game. Hopefully, if Jim keeps watchinghelp the Irish. What Jim lacks in couldn't ask for anything more, maneuverability to watch the pass Mike asserted whole-heartedly those little things, it will mean bigbulk he makes up for with ex­except another one this year," and to cover the run also. He said that he always felt Jim, despite his things for the Irish. 
ceptional speed and quickness, and 
says Jim. "And I think hwe have a that many of Jim's behind the line G-eg Q)rgan :====================================================================:====:==================================
opposing teams this season have good chance." tackles and quarterback sacks found that out-finessing him is The junior economics major result when he is freed on a blitz, or easier said than done. says he thinks the team can build when he beats a halfback or fullback trying to block him. Both brothers pointed out that 
The Irish Eye
Jim, playing the open-end side of the field, is often left uncovered. This enables him reach the 

quarterback easier, or catch a ==================================================-=====================fair weather friends running play which is flowing To say that Notre Dame fans are "fair weather friends" constitutes a




OBSERVER 
away from him from behind. bitter accusation. 
Jim also places great im­Maybe they're just spoiled. portance on being mentally alert But throughout the '74 season something's been missing. The spirit of and ready. "I try to be mentally '73 has yet to reappear this year having apparently been locked into
SPORTS 
prepared and ready for all things filmed highlights of Southern California and Alabama a sea son ago. that might happen in certain 
Quite obviously the loss to Purdue has had something to do with it. As
situations. Using your head is 

far as some fans were concerned, the Irish season went down the drain
important." 

with that upset. It seems that when we lose, we're bad, when we don't win
He cited instruction by the 

by 40 points we're not much better, and when we don't shut out somebody, 
coaches to watch for and notice the 

we're worse than last year. It's not enought to win, and in some respects• little things as a central part of that's a good attitude, but if it means a lack of support, we might as well
being mentally aware on the field. 

lose.
"The little things I look for are

Harriers close season 
There's a very good chance that this year's national champs will not be
pointed out by coach Yonto in films 

undefeated and right now, Notre Dame is in no worse shape than it was
or practice. I look to see whether 

last year at this time. The Ohio State upset is the best thing that could 
the quarterback is carrying the 

have happened to the Irish, and their enthusiasm on the practice field
ball under his arm or in his hand to 

shows that. Whether that enthusiasm radiates to thfans at Friday's pep 
Saturday in Districts 
help me tell whether it's a run or a 

rally and Saturday's game remains to be seen.
pass. Or else I'll watch the type of 

It would be nice to see a tunnel at halftime, As long as the band isn'tby Pat Hollerran block that's being thrown at me,
battle between N.D. In­
up as a harrasselil and it doesn't turn into a free for all, a reinstitution of the
seeing whether it's a straight or

vitational and Big Ten champ
The Notre Dame cross-country tunnel tradition would be a good way for the students to show the players 
wide block. If it's straight, I'll look

Michigan, Big Ten runner-up
team winds up the regular portion and the 50,000 or so other fans in the stadium the enthusiasm Notre Dame 
for a pass, if it's wide, a run."

Wisconsin , and Mid-American
of their 1974 season this. Saturday is famous for.
Mike Stock also stressed that

Conference champion Eastern
at the University of Wisconsin It's ironic that it takes a Michigan State upset over Ohio State to give
Michigan.

when it competes in the NCAA EXhibition set ND students something to cheer about again. Irish fans are among the 
While the individual title should
District IV qualifiying meet. The mostintelligentaround. They know their sports. And they know that the top five teams and the top ten go to either two-time Big Ten Friday national championship hopes which seemed all but destroyed on October 
winner Craig Virgin of Illinois or
individuals advance to the NCAA 28.are now alive and well. Maybe they can use that added boost to show
Notre Dame's 1974 basketball

last year's NCAA third placer
National Cahmpionships Nov. 25 at something special at the Pittsburgh game.
team will debut this Friday

Gordon Minty of England andIndiana University. 
evening with an exhibition game The sad thing about all this is that it's also affecting basketball andEastern Michigan, several NotreThe Notre Dame runners have against Athletes in Action West. hockey. There is a common denominator between the three sports as wellDame runners have excellentprogressed well this season. 
The Athletes in Action squad is as some added factors. Irish fans expected a powerhouse team in football Following a sub-par 12th place chances to advance to the composed of top flight amaterus until suspensions and injuries took their toll. At the beginning of thenationals even if the team does notfinish in the Notre Dame In­from around the country and is season football fans all speculated that Notre Dame just wouldn't be the vitational, the team recovered to qualify. Joe Yates has been coached by former Chicago Bulls team it could have been. Purdue reinforced that idea, and support fell.
running quite well recently and has take third at the U. of Wisoconsin emerged as player-coach Jim King.
Invitational and third at the In­the number one Irish This is unquestionably a rebuiding year in hockey and after last seaon 's 
The Athletes in Action team

diana "Big State" meet. Two runner in the last three meets. Jim bitter disappointments season tickets have fallen tremendoulsy. It's too
compiled a 25-11 record last year

weeks ago the Irish grabbed 5th in Hurt has demonstrated excellent bad. This year's squad has somE! fine young players, a tremendous at­
and is currently 16-2. One of its

the Central Collegiate Conference consistency running not too far tituce, and they've already pulled a few surprises.
only losses came at the hands of 

meet, finishing ahead of rival behind his teammate. 
the University of Maryland, a At least 620 padded student basketball seats remain unsold as well as Indiana for the first time in any Senior Captain Mike Housley Notre Dame opponent this season, most of the bleacher seats. Granted the raise in ticket prices had an
and sophomore Jim Reinhart have ... kind of cross-country competition 
100-90. effect but also, with the loss of John Shumate and Gary Brokaw, people 
in eight years. The team finished not yet been able to replicate their feel that this year's team just won't be as good. They may be right, but tremendous first meet per­As a special attraction, a film of
the dual meet part of their formances, but they have the last five minutes of last this year's team is going to be just as exciting to watch. Digger Phelps schedule at 2-1. will guarantee that. They're young, and the may not win as much, but
over

Because of the continued im­nevertheless been running very season's 71-70 upset victory they'll need the support even more. It'll be interesting to see if
UCLA will be shown at half time.

well and could be factors thisprovement of the Notre Dame they get it.
Tickets for the exhibition game

team, the Irish have at least an weekend. Rounding out the Notre Being a "fair weather friend" is easy, especially when you're used to
are one

outside shot advancing as a team Dame squad are three freshman -dollar for adults and 50 cents for children 18 and under as winning. Notre Dame is a school of winners but real winners know how to to the nationals. The team Mark Boivin, Dan Horgan, and Pat lose.
well as all Notre Dame students.

championship is expected to shape McNulty. 







