Oa The Inside 
SLC Meeting ...pg 3 SMC Anniversary ... pg. 7 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX. No. 34 

Alull1lli contributions increase 9 per cent 
by Fred Herbst Staff Reporter 
Elaborating on yesterday's announcement of alu~ni con­tributions for the fiscal year ending last June 30, Director of Development Brian Regan stated that he is very pleased with the results. 
Fifty-nine per cent of Notre Dame's alumni contributed, com­pared with approximately an 18 per cent national average for other colleges. 
Discussion the large percentage, Regan said that he has "every reason to believe it will lead the nation." 
A total of $3 339 046 was given by 19,731 alumni. The leading state iii both parti,cip~tion and contributions was Illinois with 3,102 alumni giving $565,913. 
Following Illinois in participation are Indiana and ~ew York. Missouri and Iowa followed Illinois in amounts contributed. 
"Friends" of the University accounted for $3,773,261 over the past fiscal year. The contributions of the 3,317 "friends:• brought the total amount of contributions to Notre Dame for the fiscal year to $7,112,308. . . 
Of this final total, 75.6 per cent of the contributiOns are "restricted," meaning that the money was contributed with a specific purpose in mind and can only be used for that pu~pose. 
This past year's contributions are second only to 1966 m amount. 1966 and 1973 were also the last two times that the Fighting Irish have won national championships in football. 
Regan admitted that the championship year in fo?tbal~ "cer­tainly didn't hurt" contributions. He a_dded that the Un~vers1ty was in the public limelight both academically and athletically. The director of Development pointed to an article on the University that appeared in the Wall Street Journal last March. 
According to Regan, last year's public exposu~e gave ~lumni and friends "high morale" and helped spur the mcrease m con­trubitions. 
Regan dismissed the University's policy of preferential treat­ment of contributing alumni concerning football ticket requests as a reason for the increase in donations. 
Reaonably sure that a small percen~age of alumni do c?nt_ribute with this in mind, Regan stated his belief that the vast ma)ontyh of contributors do so "based on a genuine desire" to give to the University. 
Citing a possible reason for increased contributions over the last few years, Regan stated that Notre Dame's decision t~ be~ome a co~ducational institution has definitely caused contnbutions to increase. 
Also partly responsible for the growing contributions are the "friends" of the University. These "friends" are those who are not connected to the University and still contribute. 
The "friends" who are "atttracted to the people and places that make Notre Dame," according to Regan, normally contribute a little more than the alumni. 
The Director of Development noted that the University looks to contributors for 11 per cent of the cost of operating the sch?ol. 
The University recently completed 12 years of capital ca_m­paigning, the campaign running from 1960 to 1972. The campaign was highly successful, netting over $100 million. . 
Since 1972, alumni have been encouraged to contribute an annual gift. Regan stated that the University now has a seven man staff that travels from 20-26 weeks out of a year contacting alumni and seeking contributions. 
The main constituents that the University looks to for con­tributions are alumni, friends, corporations foundations and parents. . . . .. 
Speaking of the success of the Umverslty 1~ obtammg con~ tributions, Regan gave a great deal of credit to the alumm associations around the country that keep interest at a peak and do volunteer work. ~ 
Describing the role of the alumni associations in the process of obtaining contributions, Regan said, "They're the backbone that makes it go." 
*********************************** 
*
*
* 
: Rusty 
~ 
* ~ 


:Rhodes 
* 
I * ** 
* *
*Rusty Rhodes, who was well received last year as a guest lecturer,* *will be at Stepan tonight at 8 p.m. Rhodes will talk about the in-* ~congruities following the assassinations of John Kennedy, Lee ! *Harvey Oswald, Martin Luther King, Robert Kennedy and * *eyewitnesses to these murders. * 
*********************************** 
*
*
*
]
4'*
0'\C* 
* 
~ 
* 
* 
l *
·;1 * * * 
"Women have always been the biggest sufferers ... " (Photo by Dave Daley) 
McCarthy cites challenge 

by Andy Praschak Staff Reporter 
Explaining the challenge to authority as symbolized by the women's movement, Abigail McCarthy spoke in the Library Auditorium last night. 
. Centering mainly on woman's role in modern religions, McCarthy cited the lack of sen­sitivity shown to women by the Church. "I would like to see the Church survive as an institution but it must become more aware of legitimate concerns of women," she said. 
McCarthy is currently a con­tributing editor for Commonweal, New Republic, and The Atlantic magazines. Her book, "Private Faces, Public Places," an account of her life with Sen. Eugene McCarthy, was rated by the Washington Star as "the best political memoir in recent years." 
Emphasizing the fact that women have always been satisfied with roles they are assigned, McCarthy listed many historical women who have fought and died for the idea of Christianity. "St. Joan of Arc, for example, was one of the most courageous defenders of Christianity in the history of the Church," she noted. 
"The women's movement is 
challenging the structure, not the 
authority," said McCarthy. She 
stressed the fact taht authority is 
not necessarily constraint. Certain 
rights can and should be given up 
for the good of the whole, she ex­
plained. 
"While one part of humanity is 
being kept from full personhood, 
the other will also be kept from achieving it," she added. "Men and women must challenge this structure together," she said. 
According to Jesus Christ, McCarthy added, authority is and should be the authority of service. "Once we realize this, we will all be happier, richer, more liberated, loving, and giving of our full potential," McCarthy said. 
"Out of the 'movement' of the sixties, a resurgence of feminism has surfaced," said McCarthy. Women were always used as basic troops for such movements as anti­war and civil rights, until they realized that while fighting repression, they were becoming victims of it, she said. She clarified her point by citing the fact that women were hardly ever appointed to administrative positions in these movements. 
"Educational equality does not constitute economic equality," she said. McCarthy pointed out that forty percent of the U.S. work force is women, most of whom are in the lower eschilon of the labor scale. "Well over 80 per cent of these women must work for a living," she continued. 
McCarthy also found it appalling thatonly two per cent of working women receive full pension and that the work of women is not considered a part of the Gross National Product. "The most hurtful part is the discovery that you're not alone; all women are experiencing these same discriminations and frustrations," she said. 
McCarthy noted that at this time the women's movement is the strongest it's ever been. Three 


Watergate prosecution charges 'even the president' involved 
by Wt>sley G. Pippert 
Rebozo provided $50,000 in available campaign funds a monthWashington UPI The before the 1972 election -half ofprosecution opened its Watergate which went to the burglarscover-up case Monday by charging 

arrested for breaking into

that "even the President himself" 
Democratic National

was involved in the conspiracy and Headquarters at the Watergatethat Richard M. Nixon's best complex, and half to a guber­friend provided $50,000 to be paid natorial candidate. 
to the original Watergate burglars. 
The prosecutor said he was 
Assistant Watergate Prosecutor undertaking to prove that the Richard Ben-Veniste, in a 3 hour, cover-up was a conspiracy among 10 minute opening statement to a "The most powerful men in the jury of nine women and three men, government of the United said he would prove the cover-up States ... even the President him­was a conspiracy among "the most self." powerful men in the government of The opening prosecution the United States...even the statement consumed the lOth day President himself." of the trial. Defense lawyers. will 
make opening statell}entsFive of Nixon's former aides are Tuesday, and the prosecution the on trial in connection with an will then call its first witness,alleged effort cover up the link former WhiteHouse Counsel Johnbetween the 1972 Watergate W. Dean III, Nixon's chief accuser. 
burglary and Nixon's re~lection Ben-Veniste also alluded to somecampaign. 
hitherto unpublished White House Ben-Veniste told the jury that tapes the prosecution will seek to 
Nixon's friend Charles G. "Bebe" , enter into evidence. 
On April 14, 1973, as the alleged cover-up began to unravel, Nixon asked his two top aides, H.R. Haldeman and John D. Erlichman, who are defendants, about development of a strategy should Dean talk to prosecutors, the prosecutor said. 
The agreed Dean had performed valuable services in the past, Ben· Veniste said, but then "considered a strategy of pushing Dean outside the circle of wagons around the White House." Ben-Veniste quoted Nixon as saying, "If you serve the investigators hors d 'oevers, maybe they won't come back for the main course." 
During the same conversation, Ben-Veniste said, "the President recognized that if Dean was guilty, half of his staff could be considered guilty." He said Ehrlichman remarked during a conversation 11 d~ys later that if Dean cooperated With the prosecutors, "an im­peachment resolution" might be voted by the House. 

the observer Tuesday, October 15, 197~ 
warld briefs 
INVERKEITHING, Scotland <UPI)-Two Americans were trapped for more than six hours Monday in a midget submarine at the bottom of the North Sea before divers unsnarled a rope fouling the sub's propeller and their craft rose safely to the surface. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-President Ford Monday vetoed a bill that would require a cutoff of U.S. military aid to Turkey, saying it would jeopardize the NATO alliance and undercut attempts to negotiate a settlement ic Cyprus. 
TOKYO<UPI>-The second bomb attack in six weeks rocked downtown Tokyo Monday, injuring 16 persons slightly and shat­tering windows of the huge Mitsui Trading Company. 
UNITED NATIONS <UPI>-Rejecting charges by Israel that the Palestine Liberation Organization practices "premeditated murder as a profession," the U.N. General Assembly voted overwhelmingly Monday to invite the guerrillas to debate the question of Palestine next month. 
CHARLESTON, W. Va <UPI>-A firebomb was thrown through a schoolhouse window into an empty classroom Monday, breaking a two-day period of calm in a protest against a series of controversial textbooks. 
ALGIERS <UPI>--Secretary of State Henry Kissinger headed homeward Monday from his eighth Middle East tour, convinced the mission has made progress toward the next phase of peac e negotiations and a possible lowering of oil prices. 

an campus taday 
9 am to 4 pm --ticket sales, hockey tickets, all nd classes, ace, 2nd 
floor ticket window  
3:30  pm--instruction,  Introduction  to  pl-1,  a  super  computer  
language, 115 computing center  
7  pm--sllde  show,  christian  ministry  In  northern  ghana:  

agricultural reform, sponsored by lnst. for lnternat'l studies, program of african studels, library aud. lounge 
7:30 pm--instruction, transcendental meditation, 104 o'shage. 
8 and 10 pm--movie, "shoot the plano player," truffaut, sponsored by cac, eng. aud., $1.00, patrons free 
Europe, Holy Land trip planned for Christmas 
by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 

Wondering what to do over Christmas VACATION? Dr. Farouk Muwakki, chairman of the St. Mary's Business Ad­ministration and Economics department, has an answer. Muwakki is sponsoring a 15 day :trip to Europe and the Holy Land. 
The tour leaves Chicago, December 26 and returns .January 
10. Included on the itinerary are the cities Rome, Cairo, Beirut, Amman, K Jerusalerr, 
Bethlehem,  Damascus,  Tiberim.~,  
TelAviv and Athens.  
The  estimated  price  is  $995,  

which includes airfare from Chicago, hotel accomodations, two meals a day, sight seeing, tours with lectures and professional gudes. 
St. Mary's students are eligible to earn two credits hours upon meeting certain academic requirements. "Students have the option of including these two hours among their scheduled classes next semester.'' explained TRAVEL RESERVATIONS 
TICKETING 

GRUENINGER TRAVEL 291-4810 Mon-Frl 10 • 9 Sat. 10-6 
Sun. 12 • 5:30 
UPPER LEVEL SCOTTSDALE -........MALL 

Muwakki. However there is a $52. fee per credit hour, if the credits are in addition to an 18 hour 
schedule," he said. Some of the highlights of the trip 
will be visits to the Vatican, the Pyramids, Damascus, the Dead Sea area, the Basilica of the Nativity in Bethlehem, the Way of the Cross, the Holy Sepulchre, the 
Tomb of King David, the Church of the Annun ciation and finally, in Athens, the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and the Acropolis. 
"I think the students will find the trip exciting as well as in­formative. I visited the Holy Lands last summer and was very impressed with the people and 
their  culture,"  commented  
Muwakki.  
There-will  be  an  informal  

meeting and discussion on Wed­nesday; October 16, at 8:00 p.m. in 
room 233 Madeleva. All those interested should attend. For more information, contact Dr. Farouk Muwakki in rooms 227­
Involving SltC student 

Rape attempt thwarted 
no basis for many of those stories." 
around Lake Marion, and on the 
Kovatch admitted, however, that walks between Regina and a man, believed to be a Notre 
Augusta and between LeMans and 
Dame studenl, has been exposing Holy Cross, Regina and Madeleva. 
himself to a number of women on "Security also patrols the entire 
both campuses, during the day and campus continuously with a patrol 
at night. 

car passing a given area every 5-8 In an effort to protect St. Mary's minutes," Kovatch said. students from such incidents in the Kovatch added that girls can 
-future, additional lights will be protect themselves by travelling in installed on-campus "within a groups of two or three, and by week or two". The lights are to be using the tunnels between the 
placed on both sides of the library, dorms. 
WEEKENO JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. 
Gas Pai~. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189 
228 Madeleva or call 284-4~5~7~2~.-~=::::::·=========~ 
TORONTO DANCE COMPANY 
presents 




MODERN DANCE 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 17 
8:00P.M. O'LAUGH.LIN AUDITORilJV\, .S.M.C•. 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 

Three unidentified men ab­ducted a St. Mary's student from the College's main parking lot and attempted to rape her last Wed­nesday night, according to SMC Security Director Anthony Kovatch. 
The girl reported that she was walking through the parking lot between LeMans and Regina Halls at 9:15 p.m .when three men driving a brown Pinto approached her, asking for directions to McCandless. As she stopped to give directions, two of them forced her into the back of the car. 
The abductors then drove off. campus, picking up a hitchhiker at Angela and Michigan St. 
As the men continued to drive through South Bend, the girl was forced to the floor of the car where, she said, she successfully fought off attempts to rape her. 
The girl was later freed in a parking lot across from the Notre Dame library. 

The three men involved in the attempted rape are not believed to be Notre Dame students, said Kovatch. St. Mary's Security is working with South Bend and St. Joseph County police on the case. "South Bend Police have already 
come  up  with  several  leads,"  
Kovatch noted.  
Denying  rumors  that  similar  

incidents on-campus are in­creasing, Kovatch said, "There is 
M:trketing Club lecture series 
opens today 
by Stew McCough Staff Reporter 
Michael J. Vogel, President of the Jarman Shoe Company, will be the guest speaker this afternoon at 4 o'clock in the inaugural program of the Paul D. Gilbert Lecture Series, presented by the Marketing Club of Notre Dame. The event is scheduled to be held in Room 122 of the Hayes-Healey Building. 
Vogel, a graduate of South Bend of St. Joseph's High School and a 1965 marketing graduate of Notre Dame, has an impressive record at Jarman, beginning as Ad­ministrative Assistant to the 
President in 1965. The Jarman Shoe Company, a wholesaler and retailer of men's shoes throughout the world, currently owns and operates over 250 retail outlets in 

-the United States alone 
The Observer is publiShed dally
during the college semester except
vacations by the students or the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions
may be purchased for $9 per
semester ($16 per year> from The Observer BoX Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556 

3

Tuesday, October 15. 1974 the observer 



Administration inattention cited 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame faculty represen­tatives blamed the administration yesterday for failing to listen to faculty input in policy, personnel and budget issues. 
Excerpts from a report by the North Central Accreditation Assn. listed "a need for more sharing of information and better com­munication" as one of the areas of weakness in University practices. 
Mathematics Department Chairman Norman Haaser said the administration is doing little to improve its contacts with faculty members. A former Faculty Senate Chairman, Haaser noted that the administration views communication as a "one-way street" with administrators dispersing their information to faculty members while the faculty remains silent. 
Haaser referred to last Wed­nesday's speech by University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh to the faculty as typical of the administration's attitude toward the faculty. In his address, Hesburgh announced a $600 faculty raise instead of the $1200 pay in­crease suggested by the Faculty Senate and the AAUP. 
Haaser also observed that 
Hesburgh has belittled the ac­
creditation survey report on the 
"communication blockage" issue. 
"As I see it, Fr. Hesburgh thinks. everything is fine and dandy now because he has communicated his ideas to us," Haaser observed. 
Present Faculty Senate Chairman James Cushing stated that the central issue underlying the Senate's complaints is one of University governance. "All of our concern s are facets of the problem of who should make policy decisions at the university," Cushing noted. 
"Apparently, basic decisions are made unilaterally here at high levels without effective con­sultation with the faculty," he observed. 
The Faculty Senate Executive 

Committee letter printed in last 
Three-part revision of sexuality rule fails once again in yesterdays SLC meeting 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Rl'porter 

The Student Life Council failed for the second time this year to reach agreement on a revision of the university sexuality rule but did agree in principle on the general form that such a rule should take. 
Debate at yesterday's meeting revolved around a three-part revision presented by the Rules Committee which provided suspension and expulsion in cases of "any sexual misconduct that is flagrant, perverse, repetitive, or otherwise offensive to the good order of the community, or any sexual abuse of another person through coercision and-or violence." 
Section I of the initial proposal put the present philosophical statement into the preamble and Section III emphasized handling other "sexual misconduct" by rectors and hall staff with a stress 
on counselling. Debate centered on the alleged vagueness of Section II and the problem of punitive action in the lesser cases arising under Section III. 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin strongly criticized the phrase "offensive to the good order of the community" as potentially allowing severe discipline for any sexual activity. "This should be dropped--it is redundant and ex­tremely vague," he said. McLaughlin also questioned the meaning of "flagrant perverse, or repetitive." 
The Council agreed to delete the "otherwise offensive" clause and to allow discretion in giving ex­pulsions and suspensions for violations of this part of the proposal. But no clarification of the other wording was approved. 
The third section of the proposal stated: 
Prepares for opening 
by Pat Hanifin Starr Reporter 
The Senior Club has acquired new management and is un­dergoing extensive renovation this week in preparations for the grand opening currently scheduled for Oct. 23. "We are trying to create "an attractive club that seniors can use as more than a watering hole," Greg Ericksen, senior class president explained. 
Senior Butch Smith is the new club manager and will be aided by assistant manager Jim Sweedyk and business manager Jim Shanahan. "Everyone is expert in their individual specialty-­including myself," Smith af­friml'd. Ray Capp, student government campus life com­missioner is also assisting in the renovation. 
According to Smith, "Every wall ceiling and floor is being renovated--resurrection might be a better word. We are panelling or painting everything in the place and when we are through it is going to be the nicest-looking club in South Bend." The upstairs room of the club is being redone to serve both as a wine and cheese lounge and as a meeting place for senior and other groups that may wish a ''classy place for discussion." Smith said. Organizations wishing to use the room may contact Smith. 
The club will be open initially Wednesday through Saturday nights and may expand service to include Monday's and Tuesdays if 
. . 
. . 

there IS enough busmess and any practical problems can be worked by the manager. 
The Alumni Association which in past years held the license for the club has turned it over the office of Student Affairs but "the senior class will handle all the day-to-day running and management" Erickson explained. 
"We had some problems with red tape in the change-over of the license, which is why we are late 
opening," Smith said. The club will have a board of directors that includes Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of staff development in student affairs, Dean Macheca and Assistant Dean Fr. Terry Lally. Lally will be serving as liason between sudent affairs and the club and Senior Calss Vice-President Bob Spann will act as liason with the senior class itself. 
Smith announced that mem­
bership cards would be issued for 
"The universicy realizes that sexual misconduct has greater and lesser degrees of seriousness. The hall rectors and staffs have primary responsibility for dealing with instances of sexual miscon­duct not included in section III. Rectors may warn, penalize or refer students to appropriate counselling." 
After considerable discussion concerning the appropriateness of penalties and the involvement of the Dean of Students the SLC agreed that rectors may issue penalties up to expulsion from the hall as a last resort. There was also general agreement that the Dean should enter such cases only in a counselling role. 
The SLC was unable to reach agreement on final phrasing, particularly in Section II and voted to continue the discussion nsxt Tuesday in hopes of finally resolving the issue. 


t . t

Senior Club plans changes 1APPL vAT THE oasERVER oFFicEs , 
. LClRS~'l!.1L1_8l.!_~flY.2~~--J 
220 W. Marion -Elkhart 
S~rving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years 
Special Student Discount Bring your student 10 
the semor bar to seniors wno apply and can prove their age. "The cards will cost five dollars and will come with a free T-shirt--when we get the T-shirts and will get the senior into all the specials we are planning." Smith said. The specials planned now include such events as free schnapps night and malt liquor night, as many as ten events this year. 
Cards may be purchased beginning Thurday in the dinning halls at dinner and at the club. Wehn printing is completed they w11l be distributed to purchasers and must be shown to enter the club. Without a card there will be a $1 cover charge. 
"All students who want to get jobs at the club " Smith stressed "had better get ~ver here this week and work on the renovation or they Friday's Observer charged Hesburgh with avoiding dialogue with the faculty. The letter, signed by Cushing, Haaser and six other committee members, said, "The University President displayed an insensitivity toward faculty feeling which was tantamount to arrogance." 
will be out in the cold."  All other  
interested students  are  welcome  
too.  


According to the Senate letter, Hesburgh missed his opportunity to "respond in true dialogue to the sincere efforts and communication of the Faculty Senate and the AAUP. 
English professor James Robinson said he was disappointed with "the patronizing attitude" of Hesburgh's speech. "In effect, he told us that administrators should administrate, and the faculty should just teach and do their research," Robinson stated. 
Robinson, who was one of five faculty representatives in­terviewed by the accrediting committee, said the ad­ministration should not lightly dismiss the "positive criticisms" of the accreditation report regarding the communication problems at Notre Dame. 
Robinson observed that the report implies a need for greater faculty participation in University governance. "The attitudeof Fr. Hesburgh's speech, however, was that they have already made up 
their minds on the subject," he 
said. 
Acting Dean of Business Ad­
ministration Yusaku Furuhashi 
chose not to comment on the ac­
crediting report. The other college 
deans, Joseph Hogan, Frederick 
Cross and Bernard Waldman, were 
unavailable for comment. 
..... -... -....u.--...-...·-·--­
BL. 
JF.&; Carthy speaks 
(continued /ro:n page I) 
cerning the status of the American 
family, the pressures on political 
life, and the role of women in 
society were covered in this 
session. 
In a noontime luncheon, 
McCarthy talked about her latest 
literary works, the role of women 
in the Church, her recent speech in 
rome and her airplane flight to 
South Bend which was over six 
hours late in arriving. 
McCarthy was introduced last 
evening, by Dr. Ronald Weber, 
chairman of the American Studies 
Program, which acted as host. 
The visit to Notre Dame was 
sponsored by the Poynter Center, 
of which Mrs. McCarthy is a 
Fellow. The Poynter Center is a 
five year study of the cirsis in 
confidence in American in­
stitutions. 



irHE-085£00/s"NowrAKING--1, 
1 
APPLICATIONS FCR t 
1 

ADVERTISING SALESIVEN \ 
I 


I &SALESV\0\IIEN I 
t t
I PAY IS Q\J A COfiMAISSIQ\J BASIS I 
t A CAR IS AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY t 


SPECIAL SHOWING 


SATURDAY OCTOBER 19 
7:00 P.M. 9:30 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
• f I. • l I • 




THE OBSERVER. 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
! 
EDITORIALS: 283-866I NEWS: 283-I715 BUSINESS: 283-747I 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief
Fred Graver Marlene Zloza Editorial Editor Managing Editor 
Bob Zogas Terry Keeney Bob McManus Business Manager News Editor Advertising Manager 
OCTOBER 15, 1974 

Social Life at Notre Dame 
The Limits We Face 
We are beset by limitations. 
The limits which are imposed on individuals and groups at­tempting to grasp some sort of social interaction at Notre Dame come from both external and internal forces. From guidelines hammered out in the Student Life Council, to rulings passed from the Indiana Supreme Court, to our own small and self-serving im­positions, forces are constantly being directed at denying and limiting the potential for social interaction on campus. 
The social atmosphere at Notre Dame is distorted and unreal. It is an atmophere which consists, not of real and tanglible elements, but of substitutes and alternatives; an atmosphere built upon a weak foundation of mistrust, misconceptions, false pretenses, and narrow expectations. 
A sense of isolation pervades every facet of the social life here. We arrive at the University alone, and depart from it alone. But, do we have to live alone while we are here? Do we have to wrap ourselves in separate realities, doing what we do in isolated units; a group of hermits living together in vapid solitude and reclusion? Is it im­perative that we be alone for the duration of our stay, that we cannot at least attempt to make each other feel a bit "unalone"? 
Too many of us have forgotten that it is necessary, vital, to do more than walk the daily tread of our meager business. We are like Dickens' Jacob Marley, who had to wander the earth as a ghost because not once had he strayed from his solitary path--going to his place of business by day and then to his apartment at night. Too few have sounded their personal depths to determine whether or not they have the means to move outside of the singular sphere. 
The problem of social isolation cannot be discussed in terms of simple divisions. It goes beyond the male-female, black-white, student-professor lines. There are innumerable elements of discord here, which make it difficult to develop a true sense of social un­derstanding at Notre Dame. 
The University is sadly lacking in its ability to communicate among its members. From the highest members of the ad­ministration, to the hall staffs, to members of the faculty, to members of student organizations, all the way through to groups of friends gathered for weekend parties--all have, at one time or another, showed a disturbing inability to fully exchange thoughts and feelings. 
There are moments when a person finds himself locked in and locked out, consecutively. Sadly, it is a distinct feature of the at­mosphere. 
The same individualism which locks us into ourselves and affords 
the greatest problem is also the root of the solution. Within each 
person can be found the means for breaking down the walls which 
hinder communication. 
It is time to express a hope in change, from an emphasis on the introverted, singular sphere to the extroverted, communal circle. 
What has remained concealed, forgotten and ignored must be 
allowed, perhaps forced, to the surface. Only then can we begin to 
deal with it fully, with all of its implications 
Essential Improvements 
This change cannot occur without a similar change in the physical and tanglible limitations which are present. These areas of im­provement are essential if the social situation is to improve. 
Alcohol and the "Creative Alternative" 
Over the last three years, perhaps even longer, the social life has switched its center from on-campus to off-campus. There is one reason for this: the alcohol and party rules and guidelines are en­tirely unrealistic and insufficient. When one considers the social situation in terms of physical emphasis, it is apparent that the prime social meeting place is the room. Hall parties have been made scarce, and there is no dominant center for student activity outside of the halls. 
The party guidelines have their basis in the Indiana Supreme Court ruling on use of alcohol by minors. There is little the University can do about this--legally, its hands are tied. But, it should be pointed out that these rulings are essentially linked with the University Administration's attitude about alcohol. The "creative alternative" approach, vague and ambiguous as it is, leaves the students with one feeling: they are not trusted to make their own mistakes. This approach is not very far from that of the Indiana Supreme Court's, which says that minors cannot legally be held responsible for the mistakes that they make. 
Again, we have an obvious example of the limitations enforced. The distorted and unreal denial that alcohol is a deeply-rooted part of our culture is a dodge which avoids giving people the necessary chance to develop mature attitudes. 
The "creative alternative" approach may, in time, prove to be more harmful than helpful. 
The Death of Spirit 
Those who are presently Juniors and Seniors remember the lively spirit that once accompanied football weekends on campus. This year, that spirit has all but departed. Unless some effort is made to produce an atmosphere in which that spirit can thrive, the situation is bound to become worse. In three or four years, there will be a student body that has totally sublimated its livelihood someone else's idea of a social atmosphere. 
The frightening factor emerging from this is that we have become burdened in the technique of having a good time and have disallowed the spontan·eity which characterizes true e~joyment of life. Again, limitations have been needlessly imposed. There is no room for growth and expansion of personal expression, because all of the areas for growth are slowly being sealed off. 
LaFortune: A First Priority 
The need for the completion of LaFortune renovation is more pressing than before. Not only is the building needed for a better stu~e_n~ center, but as an informal central point for all University activities. At present, there is no informal gathering place for students and professors. There is no place on campus where students can go to meet friends, or to go for a good time. 
It has been shown over the last month that LaFortune can be used as a center for student activity. Nazz and Darby's Place are good ex~mple_s o.f w~at can b_e done. But, we are again faced with many bmlt-m limitatiOns. As It stands now, the interior of LaFortune is as adequate a student center as the basement of the library perhaps even less. A direct appeal must be made to the trustees 'to renew interest in the renovation of LaFortune. 
There have been some steps taken in healthy directions at St. Mary's. The installment of a game room in Regina Hall and the use of the swimming pool for parties are both good ideas.' Insofar as social activities, the Senior Picnic and the Octoberfest are means of 
getting something started. 
The Challenge 
When one begins to look at the primary social activities on cam­pus, the activities which generate the most excitement, s.uch as football weekends, concerts, An Tostal, Mardi Gras, Movies, plays, and spenkers, it becomes evident that what is most needed to relieve some of the ill-humor from the social life here is hard work and an active student interest. 
It is time for the Administration, the faculty, and the students to work for a better social atmosphere. The rewards will be found in an increased awareness of each other, of the University as a com­munity, and of ourselves as social beings. 
It is time to get out of our isolated spheres, and to put an end to the limitations which bind us. 
The Editorial Board 
,ftUIIIIIIIIfi'IIM:n:'IIIUIIIIUWI~IUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Editorial Board  
Editor-in-Chief:  Tom Drape  St. Mary's Editor:  Mary Janca  
Editorial Editor:  Fred Graver  Senior Night Editor:  Bill Brink  
Managing Editor:  Marlene Zloza  Features Editor:  J.R.Baker  
Sports Editor:  Greg Corgan  Contributing  Editors:  Ann McCarry,  Jim  
News Editor:  Terry Keeney  Eder, Pattie Cooney, Chris Smith  
Copy Editor:  Jeanne Murphy  Photo Editor:  Zenon Bldzlnski  
Special Projects:  AI Rutherford  

IIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIUIDIDIIIIIIJIII-..-mUP"I"­
---------------~-~--­
Tuesday, October 15, 1974 the observer 
5 

outrider 
the economic 'grand design' 
Mr. Ford wore the wrong pin when he addressed Congress last week. It should have read WIND instead of WIN. He boasted later that there were 31 separate proposals in the 11 areas covered by his speech. He also referred to the 9 points proposed by the Majority leader, the 10­point lists sent in by citizens ad the number of mini-summits preceding the grand summit, which preceded the speech. He talks as if an accumulation of numbered proposals can add up to what he calls "a grand design" --even when his own 31 proposals include such trivia as riding bicycles arid such vague "points as trade reform. 
The summit and the WII" program have been criticized as exercises in public relations--and the President's own speech finally reduced them to that. But there was no need for things to turn out that way. These measures could have been used as signals alerting the public to the need for drastic action Instead. Mr. Ford has used them to cover up his own inadequate response. Instead of underlin ing the serious nature of our economic situation, they were used to suggest ageneralconfusion about remedies and to sanction Ford's own confused response. The time when Ford could ask for serious measures is slipping away, and any use the summit might have had has now dissioated. 
The reason for this is clear in the economic speech. Mr. Ford called for ad­vice from his summits. though he clearly had made up his mind beforehand · not to accept it. He and Dr. Kissinger are far more willing to discuss the possibility of war with the oil-producting countries than to talk about gas tax or rationing, or about man­datory limits on oil importation. Wage­price controls are equally unmentionable. 
Mr. Ford resembles the Pope, who called a meeting of Catholic scholars to consider 

on introduction to garry wills 
Fifty newspapers, including The Sun, carry his syndicated column on national affairs two and three times a week. Readers of Esquire, Playboy and the New York Times Magazine have come to regard Wills's articles as reading staples. In 1973, his best year, he placed a dozen pieces in well-pa ying, prestigious publications. A recent issue of Playboy lumped Mr. Wills with V. S. Pritchett, veteran British writer, calling the pair "two of the world's sharpest essayists." 
He is also recognized as an astute commentator on American affairs by listeners of Canadian radio and TV and Dutch television. Even more. He has written seven books on a variety of topics and has at lea st six others in mind. The latest, "Bare Ruined Choirs," depicts the turmoil of Wills's own Catholic church. "Nixon Agonistes," an irreverent dissection of the President, is his best known work with sales of 30,000 in hard cover. The book helped earn him a place on the White House "enemies" list. 
With a P. .H.D. in classics from Yale 0958), he is an intellectual heavyweight among journalists. He combines a scholar's unhurried analysis with a reporter's quick grasp of facts. Unlike most journalists, he has kept ties with academia. Early in his career, first as a graduate student and then as associate professor at the Johns Hopkins University (where for five years he taught Greek drama), Mr. Wills moonlighted behind a typewriter. When finally he had to choose between a tenured teaching job and writing, he opted for the latter, joining Esquire. dicate, which distributes his (Olumn, help with his affairs. 
HAROLD MEDCIN USED CARS AND TRUCKS 
•

LaFayette 

at LaSalle Phone 233-2139 
"haunts a Catholic's speech." Garry Wills, is simply doing Certain expressions and images what he has done since he entered come up, not significant in the limelight: thrashing. themselves, that have special Thrashing about for some sort of meaning for Catholics. The same hold on what his voracious ac­holds for writing. In Mr. Wills's cumulation of erudition and free­case two broad strands often lancing experience has netted weave through his prose: him ... " Catholicism and classic Greek. He is, if anything, an original thinker, not given to spouting orthodoxy or the party line. The two foci serve as lenses through which he views human eve~~'­
Mr. Wills turned to political reporting during the 1968 presiden tial race. Considering !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
himself a dabbler in many fields he had always been interested in the political angle, even in the classics. Before long he was 
plotting the Nixon book. "It was a hectic year," he reminisces. "I 
was teaching a graduate seminar 
on Sophocles at Hopkins. I traveled throughout the campaign. I'd fly home for lectures and then 
fly right back." Although critics often think of him as a partisan writer, Mr. Wills 
. 

msists his purpose in putting words on paper is essentially personal."I have no desire to convert people to my view," he says. "In writing I'm furthering my own education. 
That's why I wanted to write for a 
I. · · f
Ivmg, mam1y or myself." 

the question of contraception. The loyalty and expertise of the assembled board worked to prepare Catholics for a change in church legislation and when the board recommended that change--Pope Paul ignored the advice and followed his own kind of "old-time religion." His calling of the board just underlined the meaninglessness of such fundamentalism. So does the in­consequent nature of Ford's response to the economic summit. 
The experts at the summit established the unique nature of our present combination of inflation and unemployment--ie, the fact that investment continues to be made despite tight money (except in special sectors like housing), and that excessive demand is not pushing up the prices. So what does Mr. Ford do? He goes through the pump-priming action of granting in­vestment credit, and seeks demand­reduction with his surtax and budget cuts. His proposals not only contradict the best analysis of our needs. but stand in internal 

r:~arry wills 
contradiction to each other. 
Why was business granted the investment credit increase of 3 percentage points? Perhaps to bu_y off the right-wing resent­ment at the mildly New Dealish gesture of setting up emergency unemployment funds and a neo-WPA called the Community Im~rovement Corps. But that is like giving busmessmen a bottle of champagne because ?'ou have taken away a peice of candy. Nor IS the surtax areal economy if it just gocs up to replace tax money deducted by investors beyond their rate of 7 percent. 
The summit has labored and brought forth a mouse, and Mr. Ford cannot turn the mouse into an elephant by assuring us that it has 31 separate and distinct kinds of squeak. 
In tracing the changes in his . 10 er 
outlook, Mr. Wills says, "I had fic~ure Screener -Albert D'An-been studying hard for years in °~ 10• • 
graduate school. When I began, Ntgh. C:ontroller -Tim Murphy writing I wrote mostly non-. 
political stuff. Basically I'm a Welcome to du lac: T1m Gorman conservative. An anti-Communist . Catholicism had given me a foundation ... without much reflection'' 
the observer 
Night Editor-Thomas John O'Neil 1 
Ass't Night Editor -Daniel Victor' Sanchez I Layout -Mary Egan, Maggie 
Janca, Bob Varettoni, Martha Fanning Copy Reader -Ken Bradford and 
Jim Eder Day Editor -Tom Russo 
Editorials _ Fred Graver 
Sports -Bill Delaney, Bill Brink Typists -Barb Narcross, Barb Haug, Tom Modglin, Jim Landis, 
Rick Huber
Compugraphic Operator -Morey
Br d 
I lllllllllllllllllll--1--11--111111-lllllllllllllllllll---··-·····-·-·················--· 
ME.CH.A PRESENTS 

PROF HOWARD GLICKSTEIN 
SPEAKING ON 
CHICANO CIVIL RIGHTS 
'learafter vear, semesrcr I after semester~ t~~~ College Master" lrom Fidelit\' Union Life has been the most acceptl'<l, most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelih· L nion College!Vlastei Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 





COllegeMaster· 
, Dave Witt · Agent 

l 4 •4 

6 the observer Tuesday, october 1s, 1974 
Faculty sponsors fund drive 
--~---~ 

Aid lor underdeveloped nations requested 

by Norman Bower 

Starr Reporter . Hoping to provide relief for hunger and poverty in Africa, Asia and Latin America, a group of Notre Dame professors has proposed an annual fund drive among the members of the Notre Dame community. 
Dr. Peter Walshe, an associate professor of government and In­ternational Studies, is one of six faculty members who are seeeking to achieve a dual goal of serive to 
Faculty expresses mixed emotions to President Ford's recent tax surcharge 
by Lonnie Luna 
Staff Rt'porter 

President Ford's proposal for tax increase aroused different reactions from the Notre Dame Economics Dept. Faculty. 
The proposed tax increases on individuals and corporations would be in\~ffect for only one year and would amount to a 5 per cent surtax on families eraning over $15,000 and single people earning over $7,500. 
"I think it's an equitalbel plan," said Professor Thomas R. Swartz. He added this plan would affect only 28 percent of the people on the 
U.S. Swartz gave a hypothetical case to prove his point. He said that a person who makes $15,000 would have to pay 5per cent more tax but that this person may not 
Only minor i:rxidents 
Security reports quiet TNeekend 
by Mauri Miller Starr Heporter 

With several minor traffic violations and no major crimes reported by the South Bend Police over the weekend, Homecoming weekend was "not too bad, con­sidering all the events" in regards to crime reported, according to director of cam pus security Arthur Pears. 
Friday evening two students were arrested for stealing "No Left Turn-No Right Turn' signs from an intersection of Notre Dame Avenue. According to South Bend Police, 50 such signs have been removed in recent months. Campus security also reported an the third world. According to Walshe, the program will provide 
· emergency food and financial assistance plus means of self-help to promote self-sufficiency in underdeveloped nations. Other project volunteers include Dr. Michael Francis and Fr. Claude Pomerlau, both of the government and International Studies Department; Dr. Joseph Scott, director of the Notre Dame Black Studies Department and Law School faculty members Dr. 
antenna was broken from a car in parking lot A-1. 
A high-speed chase resulted in the apprehension of a Notre Dame student in downtown South Bend Saturday night. Reported the car committed several traffic violations in the chase, including running several stop signs and red lights. 
An Indiana license plate was stolen from a car parked in the Morris Inn parking lot Saturday afternoon, and the elevator in Memorial library was damaged when students kicked the door in trying to enter the third floor. 
Several walletsand purses were reported lost over the weekend with many lost during the Rice pep qualify because of family exemptions. 
"I think it's pretty good from an equity point of view but not a very good idea," added Swartz. 
The President also proposed helping business expand by in­creasing 7per centinvestment to to 10 percnel. 
"The recommendation to en­courage people to invest is a very good one," commented Swartz. Again he gave a hypothetical case: 
If someone has to pay the $1,000 in tax and he has $100 invested, in­stead of paying the $1,000 he will only have to pay $990 under the new rule instead of $993 under the old rule. He added that the in­vestment tax would stimulate job employment. 
Contrary responses were given by the Associate Dean of the 
Business Administration College, 
John Malone. 
"I thought the proposal was 
bland; a smorgasbord of many ·things in response to many problems," stated Malone. "It will not pass in Congress in its present 
form." 
Malone added the proposal was 
developed because of the failure to 
diagnose the ailment and deal with 
infalation. He continued inflation 
is the biggest problem America 
has ever had. 
"Ford's proposal is just not very 
dramatic," added Swartz. 
"The proposal is very vague and does not demand any significant actions from the American people." 
Conrad Kellenberg and Prof. Robert Rhodes. 
The professors presently studying a number of charity organizations through which to 
1 channel the funds. 
Thses agencies of distribution include CARE, Catholic Relief Services, Oxfam America, UNICEF, Friends of Mother Theresa, American Freedom from 
Hunger  and  the  Interreligious  
Foundation  for  Community  
Organizations.  

rally. 
There was a two-car crash on campus near the ROTC building corner, with one student in a rented car. No one was injured in the accident. Another accident was reported in Stepan Center parking lot Saturday and again, no one was injured. 
The recreation room of Flanner Hall was broken into over the weekend with someone reportedly tampering with the air hockey table. A window and door were also broken in Grace Hall, with a male and female reported fleeing the scene. No identifications have been made in the incidents. 
Pears also reported that many cars were ticketed Friday night when they remained parked in the football parking lots, and several were towed away. "Be sure and remove cars the Friday night before all home football games,"he said, "as they will be ticketed or towed in," Pears said . 
~ • RUSTY RHODES
• •
•
iTO NIGHT 8:00 p.m
•

••• ••••• STEPAN CENTER FREE! •••
•
•
IF DEMAND FOR AN ADDITIONAL LECTlME ARISES,!
•
ONE WILL BE SGEDli..ED FOR VVEDNESDAY : : OCTOBER 16 AT 8:00 AT STEPAN CENTER :
.. .
. .. .
.......•..··"~··· .............................................,.,...........·-·......... 
• '• '• 14 '• 1, '• •, •. '. '· '· I, I t I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I # I # I # I I l I t ~ I S I t t t , • 
These groups are being con­sidered because they are involved in self-help and relief programs andthey maintain low ad­ministrative costs. 
Though no specific goal has been established the men hope for a good response from the University community. "We hope very much to link a faculty-staff­adminstration appeal with a fund drive for students," Walshe ob­served. He added that if any student organizations wish to cooperate with this effort they should contact any of the six coordinators. 
Last week a statement of pur­pose went to faculty members. In the spring the actual fund-raising will begin when pledge crads are 
distributed. endorsement of Fr. Theodore 


W•l•hem£phQBS£RiJ£R pmidentl 
Serving the NOTRE DAME, ST. MARY'S COMMUNITY Total Circulation J J ,000 
Regular 
Monday thru Friday Pu.blication 

DISPLAY ADVERTISING and PUBLICATION NOW AVAILABLE CALL 283-7471 or WRITE BOX Q Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Mail Subscriptions •.• Now Available $9.00/Semester or $16.001Year 
FOOTBALL TIO<ET TICKET EX<JiAt.GE 
HELP A KID SEE A FOOTBALL GAME TURN IN YOUR TICKETS 
TUES VVED THURS 
(OCT 15, 16, 17) ATllCKET V\IINDOW, 2nd FLOOR ACC ANY QUESTIONS CALL 
of the program saying, "The values for which Notre Dame stands need to be enacted.'' He expalined that the human predictament in the third world is worsening because of over­population, the faltering of the 1960's "green revolution" and the increased prices of fertilizer. Walshe continued, "Even when famine has been eliminated, its twin evil of malnutrition persits and must be stopped. 
Walshe indicated that world­wide financial donations are needed, along with food con­tributions from the breadbasket of i:1e world -Canada, Australia and America -in order to alleviate the suffering. 
The project has recieved the 
~--~ 

Tuesday, October 15, 1974 the observer 
St. Mary's celebrates anniversary 

By Sue Nelson Staff Reporter 

Tucked away behind the towering Church of Loretto on the campus of St. Mary's College is a tiny chapel, dedicated to the Virgin Mary. A statue of her, in the old formal church style, and covered with gold, stands above the tabernacle. 
In the rush of college life, this tiny Chapel of Loretto, its golden statue, and the beautiful bit of history surrounding them can be easily overlooked. To point out some of this tradition to the St. Mary's student, Sr. Raphaelita Whalen, former Admissions Director and English teacher spoke in Bertrand Hall, SMC on Sunday. It was in quiet celebration of the 130th anniversary of the founding of St. Mary's College. 
"Imagine yourself, the St. Mary's student of 1864," Sr. Raphaelita began. The college consisted of 130 students, and at least 30 sisters. Bertrand Hall, now the home of the Holy Cross sisters, was then the University building. 
The Hall, commissioned in 1860, was completed in 1862, and paid for with the salaries of some 80 Holy Cross sisters. These nuns earned forty cents a day nursing the wounded of both the Union and Confederate armies during the Civil War. 
The students of 1864, according to Sister Raphaelita, "wore long sieves, and long full skirts-no frivolous hoops, mind you! Ankles were considered unattractive. Every skirt had to have a pocket, and every pocket had to have a handkerchief. Every handkerchief had to be white -no colored han­dkerchiefs in 1864!" 
The college in those days, Sister noted, had an atmosphere em­phasizing "decorum, Latin verbs, artificial flower arrangements, French nouns, English com­position, Bach inventions, and overall. the religious spirit." 
The graduate of St. Mary's College in 1864 could choose to enter the order of the Sisters of Holy Cross. In doing so, she would dedicate her life to the Virgin Mary, literally, and in a traditional symbolic Way. Upon graduation, students were given a golden medal, instead of the class rings of today's graduates. Those who chose to enter the Order traditionally hung their medals around the statue of the Virgin which stands in the Chapel of Loretto. 
This tradition continued for many years, until the medals gave the statue the appearance of a ''gypsy," according to Sister Raphaelita. These medals were eventually melted down, and they comprise the door of the taber­nacle in the Chapel of Loretto. 
And the Chapel itself? It is a copy of an original chapel found in Loretto, Italy. According to legent, the chapel in Italy is the one in which the Blessed Virgin received the Archangel's message that she was to bear God's son. It was copied by the Sisters of the Holy Cross in 1859 and later moved to adjoin the Church of Loretto. 
The golden statue of the Virgin is the college's private miracle. It was shipped to the Sisters of the Holy Cross from Italy by Fr. Basil Moreau, the founder of the Orde .r of the Holy Cross. 
On the sea voyage, bound for 
America, the ship carrying the 
statue encountered a storm, and 
all cargo, including the statue, was 
jettisoned in to the Atlantic to 
lighten the ship. 
Several months later, Sr. 
Raphaelita said, the .statue 
found by a Holy Cross postuland who happened by. It was floating in Lake Michigan, still crated and intact; having found its way across the Atlantic, through the St. Lawrence seaway, and up to the dock where the waiting postuland 
.stood.  
The statue, she con tinued  was  
guilded  and  placed  above  the  
tabernacle.  

The golden statue of Mary above Notre Dame's golden dome, she said, is a donation from St. Mary's alumnae after the 1879 fire at ND which destroyed the old college buildmg. 
Discussing the relationship between Notre Dame and St. Mary's in the 1860's, Sr. Raphaelita commented, "Chauvinism wasn't invented, but it was a working theory then!" 
St. Mary's College began to grow, and several new buildings, including Angela Hall, which was used for "music recitals, dramatic productions, and graduation ceremonies," a student infirmary, Lourdes Hall, and Tower Hall, were erected at the turn of the century. Holy Cross Hall was built in 1902 to provide space for a grammar school, while LeMans was finished in 1925. 
As the College continued to ex­pand in the 1960's, said Sr. Raphaelita, Madaleva provided extra classroom space, and McCandless offering added dorm space, were built. Also, the College rented Regina Hall from the Convent, which had planned to use the building for its postulants. 
This Founder's Day is "recalling our debt to Fr. Sorin, the priests 

St. Nv:Jry's · 
News Staff Meeting 
\NEDNESDAY NIGHT/II 
ALL REPORTERS AND ANYONE INTERESTED IN REPORTING ARE INVITED 
159 REGINA NORTH 7:00 PM 
brothers and nuns of Holy Cross ... who procured the site and prepared the way for those who are here today," Sr. Raphaelita concluded. 
Following the talk, refreshements were served and visitors were allowed to tour the Convent archives in Bertrant Hall, the Administrative office of the Holy Cross Sisters. A Mass celebrating the 130th anniversary of the founding of St. Mary's was offered in the Church of Loretto. 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR RENT 
Modern executive 2-bedroom cottage located on 30 wooded acres of St. Joseph River frontage and Orchard Hills Golf Course. Win­terized cottage also features large fireplace, wall-to-wall carpeting, fully equipped kitchen, and riding horses. Perfect for out-of-towners on Notre Dame football weekends with only a 20-minute ride to the stadium. $150 per week. Call 616­695-6043. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: ladies' silver bracelet-type wrist watch. Call 3272. 
Money found. Give amount and condition. 8843. 
NOTICES 
Hesse '75 calendars AND daily daily daily book . new arrivals at Pandora's Books. 
Attention: Hall J-Board Chairmen. Meeting 6:30 Wed. Presidential Conference Room, Administration Bldg. 
Attention All GP Seniors: as of 10­
15-74 the categorical imperative is optional. 
TICKETS FOR THE OCTOBER 20 
AEROSMITH & MAHOGANY 
RUSH CONCERT AT MORRIS 
CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW 
AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT 
UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ND 
FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
Legal problem. but no money? 
N.D. Legal Aid can help. Call 283­7795, M~F, 1-4 pm. 
HOCKEY GAME: THE CAMPUS VIEW CRUNCHIES VS. THE ALUMNI HALL DOGS. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, AT 
10:00 AT THE A.C.C. FANS IN­VITED-IT'S FREE! 
24 hr. TV repair service. 7 days a week. Sundays and holidays. Color TV's, $60 and up. Stereo units, $50 and up. Call Western Electronics, 282-1955. 
Free . to hauler upright piano. Call 287-8697. 
FOR SALE 
'70 Opel. Needs work, body and engine. New starter, carb, tires, 20+ MPG. Call232-8500. Best offer. 
'67 Dodge 'h ton. 37,000 miles. 
Excellent running cond. New 
brakes and battery. $1 ,O'JO. 232­
8500. 
Tl 2550 calculator. Call Fred, 288­5646. Keep calling. 
For sale: 4 Army tix, adjacent. Bill, 1723. 
Stereo . Philco -AM-FM radio, S­track, turntable. $100. Call Ron, 1876. 
Akai GX-400 DSS open-reel with Advent 101 Dolby. Must sell. Mike, 1487. 
For sale: 4 GA tix for Army. Call 8661. 
WANTED 
Need 2 GA tix for Pitt. Call Larry, 288-7375. 
Need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Beth, 5144. 

Wanted: ride to NYC, around Oct. 
10. Call MicfJele, 5745. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Pitt. Tom, 288-2613. 
Need ride to Minneapolis-St. Paul or Madison for Oct. 25 break. Call John at 1184. 
Need ride to Oklahoma Oct. break. Call Cyndi, 5776 or 5428. 
Wanted: veteran-student for work~ study position under V.A. program. $250.00 for 100 hours. Apply through N D Personnel Office or call 237-4415. 
Needed desperately: 2 GA tickets to Miami. Call Tom, 8398. 
Need 4 tix USC game -call 1132. 
Desperately need ride to Davenport, Iowa, area or west on 1-80 weekend of Oct. 18. Will share $ and driving. Call John, 1774. 
Need ride to St. Louis or Kansas City Oct. break. Call Cyndi, 5776 or 5428. 
Wanted: people that can farm, speak Spanish or French, teach English or Math, have degrees in all liberal arts areas, education and science. See Peace Corps­VISTA in the library, Oct. 14-17. 
Gain career experience employers demand. We need degrees in business, Iaw, architecture, economics, and engineering. See Peach Corps-VISTA in the library, Oct. 14-17. 
I need a ride to St. Louis for Oct. break. Please call Maggie, 232­4069. 
Desperately need ride to L.l. or 
N.J. for Oct. break. Will share expenses. Call Debbie, 5198. 
Need ride to Boston for Oct. break. Call Jane, 7995. 
Needed: ride to Gettysburg, Pa. area for October break. Call Val, 8143. 
Wanted: riders, points south, San Antonio, Tex. Oct. 26. Gil, 1060. 
Desparately need ride to Cleve landfor Oct. Break. Call Tom at 8634 
Ride wanted to Milwaukee tor Oct. Break. Will share expens es. CAll Barb at 5213. 
PERSONALS Maryann Geek: You left a liquor bottle in the motel room. Have you lhought over your problem? Mickey Mouse 
Andy, Congratulations on a milestone in your journ'alistic career. Big things to come. Look out Warren 
F. the doormat 
Kedric, How come your passes are better on the field than off?? 
Your ex-admirer 
Pietro, What the hell is Ether Day? Oc­tober 16? Raw Sex? Decadence? 
Nirvana? A Gas? 
FLOPSY: You aren't the only thing I missed this month. 
Kathy 

Happy Birthday! To the Observer's own Bob McManus. How many inches ya got? 
Howard, Whalebone, Drape. Brink, Zogs 
Tuesday, October 15, 1974
the observer 

Unbeatens fall in interhall races 
by John Higgins 

If past performances were to be any indication of what to expect the script for the Grace-Holy Cross game last Sunday called for a hard fought defensive battle for three quarters, a tested clutch receiver to be the star, and, in the final act, some last -minute heroics to save the team from the jaws of im­minent defeat. The only un­predictable factor was: which team would follow the script? 
Both unbeaten squads had ex­perienced such theatrics before. Holy Cross won its three games by scoring a grand total of just three touchdowns, all in the crucial fourth quarter. Senior end Beford Bruno came up with the big play in two of the victories, snaring a 5­yard scoring toss from Mark Anzelon in a 6-0 whitewash of Cavanaugh and grabbing the decisive 2-point conversion in a rome-from-behind 8-7 squeaker over Keenan. The Hogs had blanked Flanner 6-o in the season opener on a Larry McCrief 3-yard run. 
Grace, meanwhile, had been even more dramatic and explosive in victimizing the same opponents, Cavanaugh 6-o and Keenan s-o. Grace scored in both games in the last two minutes, with quarterback Mike McGarry hitting tight end Luigi Periera with a pair of scoring passes covering 20 and 25 yards. 
So, when the two North Quad powers squared off at Cartier Field in the opening game of a triple-header on Sunday, things went pretty r:nuch as anticipated, with the first half ending scoreless. Grace, however, scored an un­characteristic third-period touch­down to take an early advantage and the Tower team was deter­mined to write its own formula for victory. The game's initial score came on a 5o-yard drive made possible when Bob McGreevy jarred the ball loose on an at­tempted punt return and recovered 
the fumble at midfield. True to form, the tally came on a McGarry to Periera 20-yard pass play but the extra point attempt failed after a successful conversion was disallowed because of a penalty. 
Holy Cross waited longer than usual to pull out its "game plan" which had proved so rewarding in prior weeks, but in the end, the Hogs salvaged the script--and the game--and broke Grace's heart in doing it. George Duke, 1.\-ho had scored the key touchdown against Keenan, came on to replace in­jured Anzelon at quarterback with less than a minute remaining. Duke threw one pass on which defensive pass interference was called and then followed with a 30­yard scoring aerial to-who else­Bedford Bruno. The story was complete when Errico Angiuoni booted the extra point, and the 7-6 thriller left Holy Cross on top of the North Quad standings with a 4-Q record. 
In other Interhall activity during the week, Stanford remained unbeaten at 3-0, blanking Cavanaugh 14-Q on two first half 


The Irish Eye 

Believe it or not the college football season is only a couple of days away from the halfway point. 
For some coaches, including Ara Parseghian and Bear Bryant, the 
news is a bit disconcerting. Neither Notre Dame nor Alabama has shown 
the offensive prowess they were supposedly capable of exhibiting. 
Alabama squeaked by Flordia State 8-7 on two field goals and a safety. 
Florida however, also floundered losing to Vanderbilt 24-10, Oklahoma's 
high-powered scoring machine could manage only 16 points in their win 
over Texas, Nebraska was held to 10 points by Missouri, UCLA to 13 by 
Stanford. Wisconsin, after having scored 59 points the week before could 
only get seven against Ohio State, and Texas Tech scored only a touch­
down against Texas A&M. 
In other words, it wasn't a week for offense. Parseghian and crew, who 
could only muster 10 points against Rice can at least find consolation in 
the fact that they had some company, and have half a season to go. 
The Irish Eye's top twenty: 
No. Weekend Results Position last week 

1.) Ohio State (5-Q) Beat Wisconsin 52-7 2.) Oklahoma (4-0) Beat Texas 16-13 3.) Michigan (5-Q) Beat Michigan State 21-7 4.) Auburn (5-0l Beat Kentucky 31-13 usc (3-1) Beat Washington 54-7 
6.) Alabama (5-Q) Beat Florida 8-7 7.) Notre Dame (4-1) Beat Rice 1o-3 
8. ) Arizona <5-o) Beat Utah 41-8 9.) North Carolina State (6-0) Beat Virginia 22-21 
10.) Miami (3-1) 11.) Texas A&M (4-1) 12.> Nebraska (3-2> 
13. l Wisconsin <3-2) 14.) Texas <3-2> 15.) Tulane <4-ol 
16. > Kansas < 4-ll 17.) Penn State (4-1) 
18. l Florida <4-1) 19.) Texas Tech (3-1-1) 20.) Miami of Ohio (4-Q-1) 
and the worst ten: 
1.) Wake Forest (G-5) 2.) Columbia (0-3) 3.) Utah (0-4) 4.) Drake (0-5-1) 5.) Oregon (1-4) 6.) Sourthern Mississippi 7.) Virginia Tech <l-4) 8.) Army (1-4) 9.) Northwestern (1-4) 10.) Tulsa (2-3) 
Beat Pacific 35-6 Beat Texas Tech 28-7 Lost to Missouri 21-10 Lost to Ohio State 52-7 Lost to Oklahoma 16-13 Beat Air Force 10-3 Beat Kansas State 2o-13 Beat Wake Forest 55-Q Lost to Vanderbilt 24-10 Lost to Texas A&M 28-7 Beat Ohio University 31-3 
lost to Penn State 55-o 
Lost to Harvard 34-6 
Lost to Arizona 41-8 
Lost toN. Iowa 41-17 
Lost to California 4G-10 
0-4) Beat Texas-Arlington 39-10 Beat South Carolina 31-17 Lost to Duke 33-14 Lost to Iowa Beat Wichita State 35-13 
1 
2 3 9 6 5 
7 
8 14 10 13 
4 

11 12 16 unranked 19 17 18 unranked 
1 2 

7 unranked 10 6 3 8 unranked 9 
touchdowns. Quarterback Roger Blanken went ten yards for the first score, and a Jim Segerson blocked punt and a 30-yard return by Dave Wenke! set up a 7-yard Bob Kelly TD run. Pete Diamond, with two interceptions, Segerson, who added a second blocked punt, and Rob Cimini were the leaders of a hard-nosed Stanford defense which held Cavanaugh in check the entire game. 
In the final North Quad game played last week, Keenan, the preseason favorite in the division, won its first game of the year, dumping Zahm 14-0. 
South Division 
In the feature game on the South Quad last week, Morrissey edged rugged Sarin 7-6 in an exciting battle of unbeatens. The hard-hitting affair saw Morrissey score first on a 49-yard bomb from new quar­terback Jeff Burda to Wally Nushert when a Sorin defender fell down. Brooks Humphreys kicked the extra point, which proved to be the margin of victory for the Marauders. Sorin stormed back, only to have a 50-yard drive stall on a fumble deep in Morrissey territory. Finally, in the fourth ouarter, Rick Chamberlain tallied on a head-first dive play to culminate an 85-yard drive and close the gap to one. Sorin, which had moved the ball well all day, outgaining Morrissey 118 yards to 84 and making more first down (11­5), elected to go for two and the win, but Norb Gross and Jim Dwyer, who had 11 tackles, rose up to stop the Sorin option for a 2-yard 
loss. 
Morrissey coach Vince Meconi, relieved to escape the Sorin en­counter with a victory, admitted that his team had been outplayed by the fired-up Sarin team but added: "We managed to get the breaks in the game. Sorin is really tough and has a good chance to beat Dillon. It was a real good game, and Sorin did a fantastic 
job." 
The Marauders won a second time last week, drubbing injury­ravaged St. Joe's 21-0. Burda went 
over from the one, Glen Sturm returned an interception 41 yards, and Kevin Horton ran 10 yards for Morrissey's touchdowns. St. Joe's, which was forced to forfeit to Dillon earlier in the week because it could not field 11 healthy players, managed to get up 14 against Morrissey, but four got hurt and one was ejected so that only nine men were on the field for the last touchdown. A total Morrissey defensive effort held St. Joe's to -21 yards rushing. 
Sarin also played twice last week and was luckier the second time, stopping· Alumni 6-0 behind standout defensive efforts by defensive ends Mike Bonifer and Tom Foristel and the running of fullback Ken Sitkowski. Alumni got its offense moving late in the game but some disputed calls by the officials went against Alumni and bogged down their scoring powerful Grace at8; and unbeaten attempts. Earlier in the week, Stanford faces rival neighbor Alumni stopped Pangborn-Fisher Keenan in the 9 o'clock nightcap. 6-0 as Pete Logan blocked a punt Dillon and Stanford put their and recovered it in the end zone for unbeaten records on the line a touchdown late in the fourth against upset-minded opponents to quarter. Brother Jim Logan had 15 highlight next Sunday's full slate of tackles to lead the defense. activity. Pang born-Fisher vs. 
In the other South Quad contest Alumni kicks off the action on the played last week, Howard and turf at 1 o'clock, followed by Pangborn battled to a scoreless tie. Dillon-Sarin at 2 and Morrissey­
Howard got inside the P-F20 twice, Howard at 3. Over at Stepan only to lose the ball on a fumble Center. Holy Cross-Zahm leads and an interception, while things off at 1, Flanner encounters Pangborn's only sustained drive of Keenan at 2, and Stanford closes the game ended on a missed 25-against Grace at 3. 
yard field goal on the last play of the game.  South  North  
Wednesday evening at Cartier Field, the North Quad will be in action, with division-leading Holy  Dillon 3-0-o Morrissey 4-0-0 Sarin 2-1-0  Holy Cross 4-0-0 Stanford :l-o-o Grace 2-1-0  
Cross having the night off.  The  Alumni  1-2-0  Keenan  1-2-0  
scht>dule:  Flanner vs. Cavanaugh  Howard  1-2-1  Zahm  1-2-0  
at 7 p.m .. with each team looking  Pangborn 0-2-1  Flanner  0-2-0  
for its first win; Zahm challenges  St. Joe's 0-4-0  Cavanaugh 0-4-0  

Stickmen defeat Alumni 9-6 at Cartier Saturday 
by George Eckes 

. The N.D. Lacrosse Club upped 
Its fall season record to an im­
pressive 3-0 slate Saturday evening 
with a 9-6 victory of the Alumni at 
Cartier Field. 

Rev. Edmund Joyce initiated the 
festivities, which capped off the 
lOth anniversary weekend for 
ND.D Lacrosse by throwing out the 
first ball and offering the in-
SMC temns team is fourth in state 
by Kathi Paterno 

The St. Mary's tennis team 
ended their fall schedule with a 
flourish last Saturday afternoon. 
Traveling to Ball State for the 
Indiana Women's Tennis In­
vitational, SMC placed fourth in 
the state out of a field of 16. 

SMC snatched 12 team points in 
the singles events as Lynn Griffin 
advanced to the quarter finals, Sue 
Starck and Barbara Timm moved 
into the semi's, and number two 
player Louise Purcell reached the 
finals. 

Ann Houser and Mary Beth Vieha coupled to add six more points to the tally before suc­cumbing in the doubles semi-finals while Monica Cordes and Sheila Finneran provided two marks in the consolation round. The total of 1 32 points awarded St. Mary's the fourth place berth behind I.U. (57 points>, Purdue (48), and Valpo
(42). Co-captain Ann Houser com· mented "we felt as if we reall) played well out there Saturday and all of us are sorry it's our last match for a while." And the posting of a 7-2 final record attests to a fine fall season for the SMC squad. 
vocation. 

The game itself tuned into a high 
scoring affair with the usual stick­
mPn ripping the nets for the Irish. 

Steve Tarnow and freshman Mark 
Connt>lly scorded twict>, while Hich 
Caron, Bob Thibedeau, Tom 
McHugh, John Corcoran, and 
newcomer Jim McGinty each 
scored once. 

"Everythingwent well. Passing was crisp, and everyone was trying for the assist," said President Rich Caron. He, and the rest of the team received added satisfaction knowing their per­formance was under the watchful eye of Bob Scott, coach of perennial national lacrosse champs, Johns Hopkins. 
The game would have been a bigger rout if not for Jerry Kemmer, the Alumni's goalie who performed spectacularly in numerous one on one situations as the Irish attack seemecunstoopable at times. Six times ND shots hit the goal posts but Rich Caron comments, "Those close shots missing should be attributed to Kemmer. He'll have to ramk as one of the better goalies we've played against." 
The Irish are aiming for an .undefeated fall season as they play Chicago in the finale Sunday at Stepan Field. 

Phelps slates BB tryouts forTuesday 
Tryouts for the 1974-75 varsity basketball . team will be held Tuesday October 15. 
All interested persons should report to the ACC basketball arena before 4:00. Players should bring th~ir own equipment. 

<1 >Special thanks to Mike Hansen 






