
OD The Inside 
SBP Endorsement .•. page 4 
Little Big Screen •.. page 5 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
M6. Vf. Monday, February 25, 1974 

Inflation hits dulac teaching extra hard, says AAUP report 
What happened to $300,000 pledge? group asks 
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 
"There are two important considerations now: 
first, what has become of the $300,000 Father Hesburgh pledged towards faculty salaries during his 'State of the University' address last fall; second, given the University's lim~ted financial resources for faculty compensation, salaries and fringe benefits, now do you cut it up between the two," said associate Professor of Economics Thomas R. Swartz, chairman of the economic commission of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University Professors <AAUP). 
His statement was made after issuing his report which said that inflation has had a devastating effect on the purchasing power of Notre Dame's teaching and research faculty. 
Swartz's report estimated that the salary increase needed to get salaries of teachong and research faculty in '74-'75 back to '71-'72 pur­chasing power was about 10.9 to 12.1. 
What has become of the $300,000 is an ex­tremely confusing problem, as can be seen in the views of Associate Professor of Economics, Dennis Dugan, chapter president of the AAUP, and chairman of the Economics department, and Father James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., Provost of the University. 
Dugan said, "My impression and the im­pression of others, after Father Hesburgh's speech, was that the $300,000 would go along with the usual salary increase. As of now, my im­pression from what has been said concerning the College of Arts and Letters increases, is that the $300,000 was used to pay only the usual salary increase. There was no additional increase in salary." 
Burtchaell replied, "The $300,000 has been 
used as an addition to the planned budget for 
faculty salary increases as Father Hesburgh 
said, and it will be a permanent feature of the 
budget." 
Asked why Dugan had this impression of the 
$300,000, Burtchaell said, "The $300,000 goes to 
all faculties. Furthermore, it should be 
remembered that budgetary funds are not 
allotted throughout the University on an equal 
basis. Some colleges need more increment than 
others; in their turn, deans must allot in­
cremental funds to their departments according 
to their uneven needs; lastly, chairmen assign 
salaries to faculty according to merit. In some 
cases, a department will use some of its new 
funds for a new faculty position, thus sacrificing 
part of possible salary increases." 
WhEm informed of this, Dugan said, "It's hard 
to figure. In the College of Arts and Letters, 
there is no way that the $300,000 was added to the 
regular salary increases. Maybe other colleges 
in the university got a great deal of money, but 
with the College of Arts and Letters making up 50 
per cent of the University's faculty, I still think 
there is a question about the $300,000." 
Burtchaell and Swartz analyzed the faculty 
salary picture somewhat differently. Both 
agreed that inflation significantly neutralized 
recent gains, particularly during the present 
year. 
Burtchaell, however, pointed out that overall 
averages, used by Swartz in his report, do un­
derstate the situation of the individual faculty 
member who rises annually by rank and 
seniority with reference to the averages. He 
also emphasized that Notre Dame's situation, 
with reference to other institutions of higher 
education and other professions, had been af­
flicted no worse than they by inflation. 
Swartz said, "Father Burtchaell's budget 
analysis in Notre Dame Report 5 shows an at­
tempt to fix attention on erosion of purchasing 
power; however, I don't think the report cap­
tured the full magnitude of the problem." 
Commenting on the overall problem of in­
flation after reading Swartz's report, Dugan 
said, "Professor Swartz shows faculty salaries 
have been eroded by inflation. In economics, if 
·you increase salaries, you are in a time of 
progress. If you maintain your salaries, you face 
stagnation. Right now we don't even enjoy the 
luxury of being economically stagnant. Our 

standard of living is going down. Other in­
stitutions are getting salary increases larger than ours. Relative to peers in the academic community we are falling behind. This means the University's ability to attract and keep quality faculty is impaired. If you're going to have a competitive faculty you need competitive wages. If it is a time of economic crisis at the University, the faculty should be told to tighten their belts." 
Commenting on the use of the endowment to alleviate the situation, Dugan further added, "An endowment is to be used on a rainy day, and with 8.8 inflation, it's hailing outisde. An en­dowment is built up to maintain the educational institution in times of trouble. Today's problem is rather serious." 
Comparing Notre Dame's average com­pensation for teachers, Burtchaell says in Notre Dame Report 5, "Out total compensation (reckoned on a nine-month basis) continues to stand above the national average, as it has done for 14 consecutive years. But we are not com­peting financially with all national four-year institutions: our peer institutions are the research universities, and in last year's AAUP reports Notre Dame ranked in the 40-50 percentile. 
There is clearly room for improvement here." 
When asked if the endowment would be used to increase the salary, Burtchaell said that the endowment income is already being used. 
Concerning the second problem mentioned by Swartz at the beginning, Professor Paul MClane, who has recommended retirement benefits, said, "There is no disagreement bet­ween Professor Swartz and myself that both salaries and retirement benefits are being 

" seriously hurt by inflation." Describing the problems the pension fund faces, McLane said, "Faculty members could stand to lose $50,000 in retirement benefits because of the rising social security base. "But," he added, "I feel that the salary situation is worse off than the retirement fund situation, and extra money should go there first. The people who are on salary outnumber those on retirement, since only 8 to 10 people retire every year. Ideally, if there was enough money to go around, we could give money to both." Burtchaell talked about how the money is divided, in Notre Dame Report 5. He said, "Since most benefits must be funded from the same budgetary source as salaries, benefits and salaries are convertible, and it is an open choice how much of the total compensation package should be in either category. In recent years we have shifted a considerable portion of new compensation from salaries to benefits. This came partly in response to presentations made from within the local chapter of AAUP, which in this instance seemed accurately to reflect the preferences of most faculty members. Also, since benefits are paid in non-taxable dollars, they represent an added gain to the average faculty member of about 25 per cent."· As to how the money will be divided up for next year, Burtchaell says, "As for the recent Faculty Senate Resolution calling for an increase in retirement benefits, the Senate leaders with whom I spoke last week acknowledge that there is a deep division on this subject. Granted a fixed sum available for total compensation, younger faculty with heavy family expenses generally want increases in salary, rather than fringe benefits, while facutly nearing retirement want the dollars allotted more to benefits than salary. We all agree that on a matter of such importance, the single vote of the Senate might not be an adequate indicator of informed faculty opinion." 
Election coverage on pages 2, 3, 6 
SBP hopefuls cover campus 


on weekend 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 

Four major issues surfaced over the weekend as seven of the eight SBP-SBVP tickets campaigned: student rights and relations with the administration; communication with the student body; a coalition of student groups; and off-campus problems. 
Five candidates pointed to student-administration relations as a crucial area. 
Mike Gahagan and Frank O'Connell proposed that students have fifty percent representation on all University Councils in order to curb what they see as administration disregard of student views. Pat McLaughlin and Frank Flanagan stressed the im­portance of rational debate with the administration, based on solid evidence gathered by the student government. "Too many of student government's dealings with the administration have been ruined by emotionalism," McLaughlin said. 
Ed Rahill and Blake Wordal called for "action, not reaction" by student government towards the ad­ministration. They also want a "realistic revision of the rules and regulations and a "decentralization" of the Dean of Students' power. SteveVillarosaand Bill Zimsky appealed for "consolidated student effort" to reverse "setbacks" at the hands of the administration. 
Andy Winiarczyk called for a revision of the student code "the main thrust of our campaign." He promised to fight for revision of the party and sex regulations for a requirement .for a two-thirds vote of the judicial board for suspensions and expulsions, and elimination of the Dean of Student's regulation-making authority. They also demanded a list of penalties for specific violations. 
The candidates saw communications between the students and their governmentas vital for action on student rights. Ray Capp and Greg Ericksen proposed a weekly Observer column and weekly TGIF get-togethers, to counter student apathy by "letting students know what's happening." Villarosa .said he was "appealing for student interest in student government." Shankel proposed "accountability sessions," during which the SBP and SBVP would discuss issues with students in the halls, and periodic referendums on current issues. 
Three tickets also stressed a coalition of the different student groups, the student government, Student Union, SLC, and HPC to deal effectively with the administration. Gahagan called for a "fact-finding subcommittee" to coordinate student activites. McLaughlin would create a community services director and "seats on the SLC and HPC for the SBP and SBVP." Rahill wants a "Student government coordinator with a foot in each different group." 
The problems of off-campus students received considerable attention. Capp suggested a special off-
campus bureaus within student government manned by six commissioners. The commissioners -would be drawn from districts created in South Bend. He would also create a list of available housing, including reports of the quality of each unit. An improved shuttle bus service would be instituted. 
Gahagan called for the admission of fewer freshmen to prevent pushing students off-campus. McLaughlin stressed the need for legal aid for off-campus students in matters concerning renting, leases, and local and state laws. Shankel wants to set up a student co-op for food and other merchandise by the beginning of next year. 
Winiarczyk proposed that students who are "exiled 
off campus" by "adopted by the hall they moved out of. They should be considered members of the hall for all social purposes." He also wants to create a com­parative housing and laundry list. 
Other matters concerned some candidates. Gahagan demanded that LaFortune Student center be renovated according to the student plan "by this fall." Capp and Ericksen proposed that Stepan Center be renovated for playing basketball and volleyball. 
Rahill stressed the importance of student government working to improve campus social life. Villarosa and Zimsky ran into trouble getting a hearing when their campaign posters announcing speeches were ripped down. Bi~l Oberhardt and Cal Collins did not campaign over the weekend. 
warld briefs 
'YVASHINGTON (UPI}-Federal Energy Chief William E. Simon said Sunday he was certain increased gasoline allocations to the hardest hit states would shorten service station lines and fuel rationing will not be needed. 
The 2 cent-a-gallon gasoline price hike granted service station owners beginning March 1 appeared to have headed off a threatened shutdown by service stations, although many stations in the hardest hit states were reported closed recently for lack of gasoline. 
SAN FRANCISCO <UPI>-Patricia Hearst's parents for the second day awaited word from the girl's kidnapers Sunday on whether they would release her in exchange for a $6 million free food program. 
Two days after a final offer was made to the terrorist Symbionese Liberation Army SLA, there still was no response from the kid­napers who dragged the 20-year-old granddaughter of publishing empire founder William Randolph Hearst from her Berkeley apartment 20 days ago. 
an campus taday 
4: ~0 pm-lecture, "a new generation of laboratory msfrumentatlon," by prof. howard v. malmstadt, sponsored by chem. dept., rm. 123 niewland. 
7:00 & 9:00 pm-foreign film fest., "Ia sfrada" (fellini), sponsored by college of arts & letters, eng. aud., 
7:10 pm-lecture, "books, music, art, films for children," sponsored by religious ed. dept., caroll hall. 
8:30 pm-benefit, bob hope benefit show, ace, only 
bleachers left, $4. 9:00pm-jazz, ndfb combo, Ia fortune ballroom. 
11:30 pm-forum, sbp candidates winiarczyk, capp, mclaughlin, and rahill will debate, stanford-keenan lobby. 

by William Murphy and Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporters 

SBP candidate Pat McLaughlin and his running mate Frank Flanagan discussed their cam­paign strategy and platform last night in a meeting at LaFortune Student Center. 
Stating that the basic issue in their platform would be dealing with the Administration, McLaughlin and Flanagan pointed out that emotionalism has ruined student government's dealings with the administration in the past. 
The candidates stressed that good 
research, strong argumentation 
and positive leadership would be 
their approach during the debate 
of any issue which should arise. 
McLaughlin and Flanagan stated that they would be an "issue-oriented" ticket. According to McLaughlin, this means that instead of getting bogged down in small details, he and his running mate would spend more time on differences in basic issues and policies between the student body and the Administration. 
The candidates are seeking appointment of a Community Service Director to coordinate all governmental aspects of student 
Nothing on tap lor Oberhardt 
by AI Rutherford Staff Reporter 
Bill Oberhardt and Cal Collins, 

had no plans for campaigning over 
the past weekend. When asked 
when they were to be speaking, 
Oberhardt replied, "As of now, we 
plan to speak at Dillon Monday 
night." He did not specify a time. 
.~oth Ol:!erhardt and CQI)j.ns are 

juniors fr'otn Sbfin HalL · · · · · 
: : . i I · 

service. This is something they 
felt has been sorely lacking in the 
past. McLaughlin and Flanagan 
are planning a heavier and more 
definite workload for all depart­
ments of student government 
throughout next year to see to it 
that government departments do 
not become lax. Flanagan pointed 
out that there would be no spoils 
system in their administration and 
that all position appointments 
would be open to the student body. 
The candidates demanded solid 
coordination between the SLC and 
the HPC and student government. 
According to McLaughlin, if these 
three groups can work together, 
student objectives could be 
clarified because student opinion, 
through their representatives, 
would be unified. 
McLaughlin and Flanagan also 
pointed out that as SBP and VP 
they would assume seats on both 
the SLC and HPC. They stressed 
that they have each worked with 
both groups. 
In the off-campus issue, several 
specifics were proposed. One was 
publishing a comparative list of 
food and drug store items and of all 
state statutes dealing with 
tenants, building, health, and 
safety codes. McLaughlin and 
Flanagan want a definite type 
program for legal aid to students to 
deal with legitimate complaints. 
On the budget issue, if no social 
centers exist, the candidates want 
to keep the money in the halls. 
They also want to set aside a small 
protion of the funds for a plan of 
social activities that would occur 
several times throughout the year. 
Just because McLaughlin and 
Flanagan are not promising such 
specifics as an 0-C shuttle bus does 
not mean they are not working for, 
them. In other words, they do not 
want to promise things they are not 
sure they could get next year. 
· ··. " · • · · ( ponttn'q.ed on pdge' 6) 
4• ': .. ,~ v .. A J. r r-·• . t .. ' ' \ ' 1 
Shankel says he's done his 
Homework's important 
by Mike Kulczycki established for under two of SBVP, McErlean said the main Staff Reporter thousand dollars. thing was "to add work to make Shankel emphasized the non­sure all these things go through." 
Steve Shankel and Bill profit nature of a cooperative, with He felt he could "hit the road more McErlean, candidates for Student its main concern to provide food at often and get people's ideas, in­Body President and Vice­reduced rates for off-campus stead of getting involved only in President, stressed their research students . Citing research at four bureaucracy." 
on various proposals and the different colleges, Shankel Shankel and McErlean plan an establishment of "accountability stressed the importance of appearance at 7 p.m. tonight at sessions" to ascertain student "proposals founded on fact." Alumni Hall, with a later meeting desires while speaking Sunday When questioned about the role at Walsh. evening in the basement of Farley. 
Shankel, a Grace Hall junior, Fact-finding gr,oup said, "We have researched practically everything we are of­fering to students, and also trying 
G4':Ihagan: Subcommittee 
to take the ideas from the past and apply all the things learned from the research." Shankel explained 
fo.r new coalition needed 
that having looked into everything have passed if 400 students would a lot of ideas were merely "hollo~ by Gary Allietta have shown up to speak against
bubbles." and Kit Baron it," O'Connell said. He added that Shankel also stressed "the ac­Staff Reporters 
if the subcommittee would have 
countability sessions as viable been operative this year, the
SBP candidate Mike Gahagan
means to ascertain student 
calendar would not have passed at
stressed the importance of a fact­
opinions and desires on campus." 
alL Students would have been
finding subcommittee in a cam­
McErlean explained their 
informed well in advance, giving
paign talk last night in the Badin
platform aim of providing student them enough time to lobby againstlounge.
government with the adequate it.
Gahagan explained that a big
knowledgeof student desires. "It Gahagan stated that 50 per cent
problem on campus today is the
would be accomplished by ac­represenation on all councils could 
lack of information on the part of
countability sessions in the 
be achieved by the end of this
the student body. He proposed the 
res~dence halls on a bi-weekly semester. In response to a
subcommittee as a solution to the
basis, and the availability of question, he noted that by a con­problem.
survey boxes in the SLC districts. 
stitutional revision of either the
"The Hall President's Council,
The sessions, taking place in Academic or Student Life Council 
Academic Council and the SLC
different halls every two weeks, the change could be enacted. ' 
should work as a coalition. The
would give the students a chance to "If the Administration won't
subcommittee would serve as a
question us, complain about allow the change, we'll ask the
fact-finding group for the
problems, and generally make the Board of Trustees to let us attend acoalition," Gahagan said.
student government leaders meeting. They can't say no to the
Gahagan and SBVP candidate
visible." 
SBP," Gahagan added.

Frank O'Connell also went over the 
In discussing their proposal of O'Connell brought up the off­
three major points of their plat­
"accountability sessions," 
campus student and LaFortune
form and explained each in a little
Shankel felt there would be no situations. "It's not worth forcing 
more detail. O'Connell em­
better way of getting a grasp of people off to bring in more fresh­
phasized the under-representation
"what students want on campus." 
men," he said. "The Ad­
of students on all councils and
Shankel also indicated that by ministration needs to be sensitized 
some of the problems this brings
working with actual numbers, with about this situation."
referendumbs on any proposals on. 
O'Connell noted that the
"Fifty percent representation
and these sessions with students, LaFortune renovation has been "in
has never been pushed for before
student government could work progress" for the last two yearswith actual numbers, "work from on this campus," O'Connell and some people did not even know
pointed out. As an example of the
the position of student strength." 
it. The student center and the
hazards of too-little student
He suggested the example of library are the only places off-
representation, he cited Fr. with actual figures of what Burtchaell and the calendar issue.
going before the Board of Trustees 
(continued on page 6)
"That calendar would never type of presentation the trustees could consider. According to McErlean, "We 
students want, because this was a 
Final Meeting Utah Ski Trip
would like to set up a student cooperative in time for next September, for the purposes of 7 pm Tuesday, Feb. 26 $25 deposit making available food, clothing 
LaFortune 1-C
and records at reduced prices." Having investigated the student cooperatives at Boston College, 
lnterna~tional Film Festival 
and Kent State, Shankel and 
presents

McErlean said a co-op could be 
The Observer is publiShed dally 
Fellini's 

during the college semester except vacations by the students of the Unive;sity of Notre Dame and St. 
LA STRADA 
Mary s College. Subscriptions may be purchased ·for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame 
i' pm 9:30pm Engineering Aud. 
Indiana 46556. Second clas~ postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Feb. 25 .lFREE!
.46556. 
' 1 .• ) . i f • ,. ~ • • 

,. r "' ...-.·-~ ltJi"J-.---• -'at· ............1­
-----------~--------------------~------------------------------------------------------~ 
Food Service crackdown 
'Freeloaders' beware 
by Jim Donathen is an organization whose only Thought" letter composed by the 
Staff Reporter purpose is to provide a service Student Food Service Advisory 
for the student body, according Committee, the Keenan Hall 
to Price. "We're an auxiliary staff's imposition of fines on 
The Notre Dame Food Service enterprise which exists in order students involved in food fights, has stepped up its efforts to to make it possible for students and a recent letter to the Ob­prevent unauthorized students to study and live here." server as signs of a "healthy, from using the dining hall Facing the problem of mature attitude.'' facilities. These efforts include spiraling food costs is Price's "I've been very pleased to see moving checkers nearer the main concern. "Part of our that the students here have entrances of both dining halls, duty is to stretch the students' adopted a realistic mature checking the meal identification dollar as far as possible. I reaction to the food service cards of student workers, locking personally feel that the student's situation and our attempts to 
the back doors of the North money is like a trust. We have eliminate misuse of the dining Dining Hall, and designating to bend over backwards to hall privilege," commented certain doors as exits only. execute that trust," emphasized Price. 
"Our actions are a reaction to Price. "We are trying to maintain the student feedback we've been Price noted that he does not quality and amount of food in receiving," said Food Service savor the necessity of "policing" the face of rising food costs," Director Edward Price. the dining halls. Price emphasized. "Both the "If someone is costing us Price has been extremely students and the administration 
money we must react to them," pleased with the "self-have been cooperative in aiding 
said Price. responsibility" of the student our efforts to achieve this," 
The Notre Dame Food Service body. He views the "Food for reiterated Price. 
Revise SLC code: Winiarczyk 
Speaks at hockey and basketball games 
by Mary Janca by 0-C students, and the adoption the theology and philosophy Staff Reporter of 0-C students by each hall. requirements to 1 semester each, "The 'home' hall would be their with a pass-fail option, and the "The main thrust of our cam­last place of residence. Forall hall 
elimination of the collegiate paign is the proposed revision of events, they would have the same seminar requirement. the SLC code," stated SBP hopeful privileges as people residing They also call for the establish­Andy Winiarczyk this weekend at within the hall," said Winiarczyk. ment of a 24-hour bot-line, where 
student with problems can receivethe hockey games, basketball The two call for the adoption of help.
game and in dorms throughout the 
LaFortune renovation plans which 
Many of these proposals are incampus. 
were drawn up by the student areas directly controlled byThe new rules and regulations 
student be
for student life "are not realistic committee, and the opening of government, or can 
lobbied for by student government, for this campus in the 70's. They LaFortune for 24 hours daily. 
do not meet the needs of the They have proposed a change in said Winiarczyk. 
students... People need to grow 
Shares endorsement with another ticket
and learn for themselves," 
Winizrczyk and his runningmate Monday, February 25, 1974 the observer 
3 
A group of us on first floor of Stanford are trying to figure out what the digits in our I.D. numbers stand for. Before the debate gets out of hand, can you please tell us? 
We checked with the Regis tar's office. The system is really very simple. The first two digits signify the year you entered Notre Dame. For example, the first two digits of a sophomore's ID is '72. The third digit stands for the status of the student. Each number from 1 to 9 means a different status. A 1 is a regular term undergraduate; a 3 is a transfer student; a 4 is an academic graduate student; a 5 is a law student; a 6 is a Holy Cross student; a 7 is a summer school graduate student ; an 8 is an MBA student; a 9 is a summer school undergraduate, and a ois a St. Mary's student. Finally the last six digits are arranged alphabetically and signify the student's place in the Registar's records. 
• Recently received a letter from the College of Arts and Letters informing us that they have set up an optional testing program to help the student choose his major. Where are these tests being given? 
For those who already signed up, the testing will be held on February 25, 26, and 27. All will be in Room 411 of the Ad­ministration Building at 7:00p.m. The student will go the night that he arranged with the Counseling Center. Call283-1717 if you have any questions. 
I'm a senior who for the last three days has not been able to get any work done. The problem is that the guy in the next room is running for some dumb office and his phone is con­s_tantly ringing off the hook and I can't do any studying. Besides, other politicians keep giving me their little speeches. 
_Please, tell me when the campaigning will be over. 
ISalvation will arrive tomorrow at 11 p.m., which is the last day for campaigning for the primaries. The run-off will be Wednesday, then more campaigning for the final vote Friday. 

John Famula contend. Winiarczyk and Famula propose 
Rahill ticket gets partial WSND support 
to revise the SLC code, princi?ally through changing the rules on parties. "Instead of begging John by James Rosini & aforementioned proposals, the Rahill and Wordal propose Another goal of Rahill and Macheca for a party, two students Susan Divita changing of the judicial code also ·-co-operation between Wordal is to make student could sign a contract which would Staff Reporters calls for a decentralizing of power the various factions of student government a "government be given to the rector, stating from the Dean of Students. government, so as to have "united .with which all students may simply that they are having a The ticket of Ed Rahill and Rahill and Wordal have energy" to deal with the ad­become involved." As it stands, party, and they will be held ac­Blake Wordal gained the WSND proposed that a violation of the ministration. This co-operation student government is "an 'I' countable for any damages to endorsement last night along with university's social regulations is to can come about if a student proposition. An individual runs the university property," explained another presidential, vice­be considered a hall offense and government coordinator would organization almost independent their platform. presidential ticket. not a university offense. The be incorporated into the student of the body which an individual 
Revisions of the SLC code "Action-not reaction," is the university's jurisdiction will be government Cabinet. purports to represent," says which they propose include: a two­campaign slogan which Rahill and restricted to matters of criminal "This new person, with a foot in Rahill. thirds vote of the judicial board in Wordal have adopted. Rahill and academic offenses only. each door of student government, Instead, Rahill and Wordal offer cases which involve a possible explained the slogan, "The Ad­In a speech given in Stanford Student Life Council, Hall a student government with which suspension or expulsion, and ministration is always one step Hall on Sunday, Presidents' Council, Academic "all students may work." Rahill "extensior. of parietals for 1% ahead of student government as it Rahill and Wordal said, "In part, Council and student government, says, "we feel every student at hours by submitting ID's to the hall now stands. We need action-not we students are to blame for the can pull together all interests and­Notre Dame should have feelings director, night guard, or reaction." centralization of authority that has make sure no duplication of effort about how life can be lived here, designated person." "Student government as it now occurred in the Dean of Students or contradictions exist in and we are ready to respond to 
Winiarczyk and Famula also call operates is so tied up in day to day office in the past two years." the workings of student gover­these feelings." for "the elimination of the happenings and there is no time Trying to reverse this cen­nment," according to Rahill. With The candidates feel, as Rahill paragraph on promiscuity. Its to be innovative and agressive," tralization and to make student this unity, the student 'government 
states, "It is time for frank and purpose is unclear and could be continued Rahill. "In order to government a student service will could "minimize the Ad-open dealings with the ad­used to harm students." Their implement this innovative and be their two major goals if elected. . ministration's defiant attitude platform also proposes an agressive attitude I recommend a To combat the centralization, toward student affairs." ministration." elimination of the provision "that coordinator of student government gives the dean of students the activities to eliminate duplication Posters torn down power to say his word is law. It of effort, insuring a complete effectively gives him the power to cooperation between student override everybody." government branches." 
Villarosa meetings thwarted 
The two candidates also call for The improvement of Notre the clarification of penalties for Dame social life is another im­unfortunate that immature tactics government. Most students have each particular offense, and portant part of the Rahill-Wordal by Mike Worle serious misconceptions concerning 
like this are employed. I entere<!
"specific penalties for each time platform. Staff Reporter student government structure and 
this race completely unprepared
the offense is committed." "The social life at Notre Dame intent, and it's time they see that 
"Students have no idea of can be improved by the interaction SBP and SBVP candidates Steve for something like this and I'm the potential exists within the mass penalties," explained Winiarczyk. between various student gover­Villarosa and Bill Zimsky had reaJly disillusioned. Bill and I of the student body." "If they know their rights and nment branches. ( HPC and Bill Zimsky went on the suggest 
hoped to hold open meetings last ' have worked hard to get the 
what's going to happen to them, Student Union)," said Rahill. that the only chance for
night in both Zahm and Sorin halls, · overview of our platform put
they have a much better chance; "The student union is the service meaningful student representation 
with the intention of outlining their together and to get the O.K. for the 
they know how to respond." branch of student government and is based in concrete action. "The
platform for the upcoming elec-posters and these meetings. I'm 
The SBP and SBVP hopefuls its expertise lies between the Administration has handed the
tion. not prepared to suggest than any of 
plan to pass these revisions service and social end of campus students a series of setbacks and
However, no one showed up for the other candidates are respon­
through the SLC, which is one-third programs. The HPC handles the trend doesn't seem to have
the 7:00 p.m. meeting in Zahm sible, but I do think this reflects a
students, one-third faculty, and specific problems of hall life," ended. Unless serious con­
certain disregard for consideration 
one-third administration. They Rahill explained. sideration is given to consolidated
chapel. Apparently all posters and fair play by opposition sup-
contend that they can receive a "By coordinating the two, the student effort, no reversals will
port."

majority vote of 50 per cent +1 by student union can provide the announcing their appearance had ever occur." gaining faculty support. service and the HPC can be the 
been torn down. Only one of their When questioned about his Both candidates have made
Their off-campus proposals , vehicle of it," said Rahill. campaign platform, Villarosa plans to discuss issues tonight at
include : lists of available To implement their proposals, posters remained in Sorin. The reiterated the major points carpools sent to each 0-C Rahill and Wordal have recon­Sorin gathering was cancelled. already established. "We are Farley, Flanner and Grace halls. student, establishment of a rating structed the judicial code, "In appealing for an emergence of They hope their efforts to circulate system of 0-C housing, an 0-C more realistic and humanistic Villarosa expressed frustration interest inimprovementof campus adverti~ments will prove .more laundry, use of LaFortune lockers terms." Along with the .at.the incidents. . . . . .''It's life .and particularly in student successful. ' ' ' · · · ' 
.. 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

Monday, February 25, 1974 
Capp 

Ray Capp and Greg Ericksen. The choice is clear. 
For the first time in recent years, the Notre Dame electorate has a wide, varied choice of qualified candidates for the offices of SBP and SBVP. All are well­qualified, well-equipped with sincerity, enthusiasm and imaginative innovations in all areas of student life. 
Capp and Ericksen, in the opinion of the Editorial Board, have the most concrete, feasible and well organized ideas. Their personal qualifications distringuish them as the best men to implement these programs as well. 
The most impressive point of the Capp­Ericksen platform is their consideration of a new aspect of the Notre Dame community-the off-campus student. 
Next year approximately 1300 students will be living off-campus. 
Capp and Ericksen have a detailed plan to aid this growing faction of the student body. The major points of this program are: 1-The creation of a new student bureau, organized by six off-campus representatives (one from each of six districts) to more closely ally the off­campus student with the student government. 
2-This office's main function would be to compile extensive files of available housing featuring evaluations from former and current tenants regarding costs, advantages and disadvantages of the specific locations. 
3-The creation of a meat cooperative which could save students approximately t.hirty cents per pound on meat. 
Ericksen 
4-New organization of an off-campus shuttle system on a non-profit basis. 
Capp and Ericksen, at the same time, have not ignored the demands of the on campus student. Through a largely activities-oriented platform featuring the installation of winter basketball and tennis courts in the Stepan Center, and the allotment of funds to the HPC to finance more hall functions, Capp and Ericksen aim to improve the Notre Dame lifestyle. 
Through these activities it is also hoped that the student body will become a revitalized community. 
A stronger unity between the Student Life Council, Hall President's Council and administration, as advocated by Capp and Ericksen, combined with a cohesive, interested student body, can make dreams of more liberal student rights in areas such as parietals a reality. 
It is a new year. It is a new campaign-­one of new interest, new people and new ideas. It is time to incarnate a student government at Notre Dame that has initiative, is imaginative and is in touch with the student demands. 
Ray Capp and Ericksen represent the new blood that can make this dream also a reality. 
They are the ones that have risen above a large number of highly qualified candidates and distinguished them­selves. 
Capp and Ericksen are our choice for Student Body President and Vice President. 
-The Editorial Board 

'DO YOU HANDLE DOMESTIC CASES?' 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
Dan BarreH Executive Editor NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos 

EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
Advertising Manager
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
daanesbur 
',.//'/ FORTH/3
~~5PtWSt3TO 

RON, 00 PYIRPOS/35 OF
:/ ~fOU~ QU£STION, Ml<. 

~' 
{ OSBORNE, I CAN ONLY 

YOU MGAN T!I£5C PR£55 
tvATcR6ATfi 8RII3FIN65,
: RI3P/3AT THAT 1(/lf HAV/3 

NO tONO§~ IT P0/35
PUT tvAT#?DAT/3 a;r.1­
Pttr13tY 813/IIN/? 1/S. 

cX/57'5? /. NOT! 
I 

f~ 
fr. bill toohey Student Power 
Some have suggested that recent events on this campus (decisions about the new calendar, the LaFortune renovation, etc.), and issues we can anticipate for the future <like co~ dorms), raise some very crucial questions that call for our consideration. This is not a par­ticularly pleasant task; for discussion of the fundamental issue at stake-the inequality of power-may prove to be troubling and, at least for some, extremely threatening. 
Americans have always had the feeling that an exercise of power is wrong, if it means the arbitrary and relatively unchecked influence or control over another man and his environment. We see examples in the !federal government, the church, and the university of the gap between the institution and those it is supposed to serve. We are surrounded with evidence of the need of reforms that will allow sub­stantive participation by those at the bottom in decision-making at every level. For those at the bottom, the response is frustration, anger, and, finally, despair over the discovery that one must either adapt or drop out. 
The cries for "student power" or "black power," as we have known them in this country, seldom suggest the intention of controlling others but, instead, a desire of students and black people to control them­selves, that is, to shape their goals and actions free from external constraint. Here we recognize the full force of the confrontation: those with power over others encounter the demands of those who want power over themselves-power as control meets power as freedom. 
All of this is consistent with the central propositions of the American creed, which proclaims that men are, in fact, equal as moral agents, each having the right to determine his own destiny, to make his own history. At best, we have been taught, coercive power is a necessary evil, to be regarded with suspicion, to be hemmed in and checked wherever possible. When it must exist, it must be legitimate, which means that it must be exercised with the consent of those subject to it. In slhort, men have the right and indeed the responsibility to make their own history and to rebel against unjust and illegitimate authority. 
In endorsing the demand for student power, some contemporary authors point out that it is a logical consequence of an affirmation of basic American values. David J. O'Brien, for example, in his im­portant book, The Renewal of American Catholicism, puts it this way: "The demand for student power, for freedom from arbitrary control and for freedom to determine the quality of their own lives, is a sign of the adherence of young people to America's most cherished preten­tions. If their demands often seem strident and unreasonable, perhaps it is because they sense the depths of America's betrayal of its own ideals and the threat that betrayal poses for their future." 
It's not hard to discover reasons why people suffer from the misuse of power. For example, very frequently power in society is divorced from responsibility. Few Americans willingly admit that they possess power, fewer still that they hunger for it. Once a person has suc­cessfully blinded himself to the fact that he possesses power, it becomes easy to overlook the social foundations of that power and the tremendous responsibilities for its honorable exercise. Richard Nixon is probably our most dramatic contemporary example of this. He is neither responsive nor responsible to those dependent upon him for leadership -a painful demonstration of what happens when a President forgets he is an elected official, accountable to the people. 
There is another aspect of the issue of student power, and this may be the most troublesome one of all. Obviously, one takes a risk in placing faith in the decency and honesty of students to take control of and responsibility for their own lives. It is probably at this point that we encounter the most opposition. Quite frankly, great numbers of adults simply don't trust students. 
"Trusting the people" is the pivotal issue in the current debate over reform and liberation. As Paulo Freire puts it, too often even the best­intentioned reformers "talk about the people, but they do not trust them; and trusting the people is the indispensable precondition" for dramatic change. This is one of the most controversial propositions of our times, and many people are simply not about to accept it. On the other hand, some insist that anyone who is honestly committed to the liberation of all men would acknowledge the fact that men will be led out of the wilderness only if the people themselves will come out to seize control of their future. There are, O'Brien insists, significant implications of this in urban slums, on campuses, even on the frams. "Those who are the objects of liberal concern, who are supposed to be the beneficiaries of education, welfare and housing reform now demand a real voice in the administration of pr{)grams designed to meet their needs, for their freedom and dignity must be based on real, tangible control over the forces and powers that dominate their lives." 
There is a real kinship between this and the teaching of the famous reformer, Saul Alinsky. Alinsky rejected reform from the top down. He and his disciples (including Notre Dame's Msgr. John Egan) insist that the pace and qualitty of social change must be determined by the people themselves. Alinsky claimed that the world to be made must be made by and for the people themselves. His basic principle is simply stated, but loaded with powerful ramifications: "Decisions that affect people's lives must be made by the people themselves." 
I have a modest hope about the preceding paragraphs. I hope they will provide at least an outline of some of the key aspects of the reality of power at a university, and, perhaps, an introduction to future discussions by all the members of this community. In a way it might be tempting to drop the whole thing, in hopes that after a while the whole issue will dry up and blow away; but I wonder very seriously if we can afford such a strategy. Not, it would seem, if we want to continue progress towards transforming our rhetoric about "Notre Dame family" and "Christian community" into reality. 
the observer 

' AMAZING.. /(/ATERGATE HAS 
~ 

YOll PO IT, HG IJSES JIJ5T Ul</3 THAT! 
VANISH£/?.. 
RON? )'11RROR.5. 

I 
!/ Night Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Night Editor: Maria Gallagher Guest Features Editor: Bill Brink Day Editors: Mary Janca, Jim Donathen Copy Editor: Rick Thues Typists: Claire Kelly, Bill Menk, Karen 
Hinks Compugraphic: Phi( Orscheln Nite Controller: The Bashful Bdton 

Monday, February 25, 1974 the observer
i • 5 
kent: a vessel to the past 
clark eide 

There are many, many stories that one may hear, legends really, of the beauty that is to be found in the garden spot of England known as Kent. I dare say that few exaggerate her natural stores and beauties. One would only have to ask a traveler who has made his way from place to place across her grainy fields and gently rollinl:l countryside on a cool June mor-­
ning. The Anglos and Saxons have known her for fourteen hundred years, since the days when her native Celts were driven away, and her island came to have a new name-Angle-land. They were the first to call this rich lowland area Kent, and they gave her a capital, Kent Town, or Can­terbury, and for a time Kent was the most powerful kingdom in all of Britain. But those days have gone now, and she once again has settled back into the relaxed and 6raceful pre-eminence that a Queen of l''ature is wont to assume, and that she has truly been created to be. 
A Sunday morning traveler finds the countryside peaceful and quiet, though perhaps he might imagine it touched with a seen i.ng indifference to his presence, so unde1 standable for a region that has viewed a century of Sundays and millions of souls. Yet, it is another Sunday, and a unique one, and even the casual observer soon notices the energy of life so artfully concealed in a small stand of flowery trees or in a rose blossom's grasp upon some ancient wrought-iron gate. A June morning's ability to coax nature into simple spectacularism, if there is such a thing, is never more evident than here. 
Anoidst these fields and hills lie the 
villages, the little communities which break 
the countryside of this agrarian whole. An 
English village inevitably conjures to the 
mind a picture of peace and contentment. 
We from across the sea seemingly have 
always been enthralled with the "quaint" 
and the cozy, and •he "Olde World" aura of 
these Kentish towns provides to those in search of this more than they could hope to find anywhere. These small life centers are dramatic illustrations of an alternative life style, an alternative to our own American way of life, which, one soon realizes, is only one form and one unknown to nine-tenths of the world's peoples. Such a realization is nothing short of revelation for the first-time journeyer, and probably strikes very unexpectedly. Refreshing, relaxing, and seductive describe this style. Wise with the knowing that has come with living, working, recreating, and growing communally for over a thousand years, it is not hard to understand how such words can be used to speak of it. 
A central institution of every neigh­borhood and much of the Briton's life is, of course,the famous public house.I struggled into one of these pubs one Sunday morning, hungry, having missed my breakfast. The owner, a short, round-faced man of sixty, said, "Ah, we'll see if we can't get you somethin' ,"and it was then that I was taken in and treated to some of the most delightful free-drinking and conversation one could hope to encounter anywhere. A small village like Sandwich in Kent has an amazing history all its own, so its little wonder its citizenry should be any less amazing and peculiar. Joining us on the stools for the Sunday afternoon repast were the town historian, a respectable­looking gentleman of sixty, a younger gentleman, who was a pilot trainer for the RAF, and, of course, the ever talkative bartender, the proprietor, master of small talk, humor, anecdotes, and salesmanship. Even a colonial like myself was able to share in the good times of the moment. And when the 2:30 last call was made (at 3:00), I found that I was not niggardly refused the parting glass, good for what ale-d me. I went back to my travels much the wiser, knowledgeable in ways I didn't realize for 
A $20 million dollar flop leads off this week's movie parade but light en­tertainment can be found not only in that film but also in some of the more un­pretentious films presented by the net­works. The financial disaster is Hello, Dolly!, slated for an early showing Thur­sday at seven_on CBS. From a Thornton Wilder story, Gene Kelly directed this musical extravaganza, set in the 1890's. It is unfortunate that Barbra Streisand in the title role of Dolly Levi, matchmaker ex­traordinaire, is totally miscast. She is much too young for the part and quite marriageable herself. However, one is not to sell Streisand short. Her style and charisma somehow manage to pull it off and she does get help from Walter Matthau as Horace Vandergelder. Louis Armstrong even makes a cameo appearance to help 
Barbra sing the title song. Jerry Herman's 
score is lively, set amid huge parade scenes 
and colossal stairways. It is all very good 
fun which at times sinks to tediousness in all 
the opulance. The film took three Oscars, 
none for acting but it goes to prove the 
lengths Americans will achieve for one of 
their own art forms --the musical. 
One neat little film for Western aficionados and for those who just want an entertaining time is The Scalphunters to be aired at eight tonight on NBC. Burt Lan­caster, despite his oncoming aging, manages to stay in top athletic form as a fur trader whose pelts are stolen. He suspects runaway slave Ossie Davis who also hap­pens to be smarter than him. Telly Savalas is at his evil best (or worst?) and Shelley Winters portrays the villain's woman, pulling off another acting coup by being a nice, heart-of-gold woman -something apparently ~~en in her ~I life self. ,,0:-, some time. 
As one travels in Kent, it is inevitable that one is caught up with the sea. Kent's history has been time and again affected by those who have touched upon her beaches. Many of the Kentish folk pursue livelihoods dependent upon the sea. Its broad expanse of choppy waters provides her residents with unparalleled landscapes for touring and rejuvenating the soul, or for sailing or other forms of recreation. The white cliffs of the Kentish coast stretch for endless miles, abrupt and impudent crags that have dared grow out of cold, restless, channel waters. One can't help but think of one's 
land, stepping on the soil that would be theirs for 400 years; he can hear the shouts of the mighty Vikings, as their long ships cut the jagged waters bringing terror and . destruction; he can see arrayed before him the vast armies of William, whom they called Conqueror, with their implements of war, and their dreams, landing a few miles down this very coast; he can view a vic­torious Henry V returning with the spoils and laurels of Agincourt; and, as he gazes, he finds the role of Kent no more diminutive now than in those handsome days and knights gone by; for, lest he be lost in the 
centuries, he can conjure to mind the glint of 

'a june morning's ability to coax nature into simple spectacularism, if there is such a thing, is never more evident than here' 
insignificance when encountering such a view of savagery and immensity. Cold and dauntless, the waters roll on as they have these many millenia, unaffected, or perhaps not even noticing the little creatures that ply her waters daily. Perhaps she laughs at this precocious being whose time here would not be an hour of her life. But wherever he goes he leaves his monuments, like the castles that dot the coastline, in search for immortality; puny as they may be in the scheme of things, yet we, sharers of that life, find that we must take note, for the saga of humanity is represented here. It is a saga ·especially meaningful for us Americans; for we are inexorably tied to that heritage that 
is Britannia. 

The traveler perched high on those chalky 
cliffs can see a narrow strip of land that has 
made a people. As he leans back on the 
soggy carpet of green, he can envision the 
legions of Rome, coming to explore a new 'the planes of death, which daily pummelled 
Kent's cities with their metal missiles of 
destruction; he can see the spewing flames 
and hear the sputtering engines of these 
winged flying machines locked in the great 
Battle that once emblazened the sky above. 
But at last, as a fitting end to his reverie, he 
can rejoice at the courage and the triumph 
of the human spirit, as he watches a 
makeshift fleet of vessels fill the rolling 
waters to save their gallant countrymen, 
doomed on the wretched shores of a 
heretofore insignificant beach across her 
heavy seas. 
The imagination can be a vessel to the past here. But the past is just that-the past-and there always exists the ever unique but very predictable enjoyment of the present. And by day's end here in the Southeast of England, I found myself deprived of none of it. 


Little Bifd Sc:reen 
a contrast: hello dolly I and the green berets 
art ferranti 

Walter Matthau again stars in ABC's Sunday film, A New Leaf at eight. Elaine May co-stars and directs this comedy about bamboozeler Matthau trying to marry homely but rich May in an effort to pay off his debts. The comedy is typical May low­key with only a few bright spots. "Columbo" is scheduled for Sunday also and you would not be missing anything if you swUched to the rumpled detective in­stead, even if it is a rerun. 
*"*** 
Now we go to Steve McQueen and Faye Dunaway in The Thomas Crown Affair, to be rerun Wednesday at eight on NBC. Here we have McQueen as a millionaire who heists valuables for fun and Miss Dunaway as the insurance agent in Boston who goes after him. There is really not much to the film (except the Oscar winner "Windmills of Your Mind" song) as Dunaway plays a seductive spider trying to ensnare McQueen in her web. She almost does it though and McQueen's smirk at the film's end matches that of Paul Newman in Cool Hand Luke. For those who get their kicks in odd man­ners, the film panders to the viewer's voyeuristic tendencies when the camera zooms and pans some of the screens most passionate smooching after Dunaway clobbers McQueen in chess. They should have called in "Banacek". 
James Coburn plays a cool and ruthless killer in Hard Contract tonight on ABC at eight. However he falls for Lee Remick and the complications in completing his hit become more trying but not trying enough to raise this film from more than a cheap B-movie with glitter and tinsel thrown in for excitement. There are some good guest stars (Burgess Meredith, Karen Black, Lilli 
... ~almer) but they cannot salvage the story or the film. Jacqueline Bisset stars in The Sweet Ride Friday at eight on CBS. She gets raped by surfers and tennis bums, notably Tony Franciosa, Michael Sarrazin, and Bob Denver reducing the film to a sleazy soapy mess not worthy of viewing. Even theshots of the surfing lack color. 
John Wayne, Aldo Ray, David Janssen, Jim Hutton, and Raymond St. Jacques destroy Viet Cong in The Green Berets repeated Saturday at seven on NBC. It is the only pro-Vietnam war to come from the so-called police action. Some of the scenes are extremely well done and some are just plain hokey, such as when Wayne moves out with his troop. The plot is simplistic and the destruction scenes gory (and edited). Janssen plays a critical journalist whom Wayne convinces is wrong. There is a good karate-kung fu type sequence but the film is too much to take overall. The CBS comedies are the better bets that night. 
...... 

The ABC suspense film Saturday has shades of Marooned to it as astronauts going to the moon encounter complications in Houston, We've Got a Problem. Robert Culp, Clu Gulager, Gary Collins, and Sandra Dee star in the film (at seven-thirty) based on that Apollo 13 flight that lost its TV transmission facilities. Also made-for-TV is Gloria Swanson's Killer Bees (not to be confused with The Deadly Bees), tomorrow at seven-thirty on ABC. Craig Stevens, Edward Albert, and Roger Davis co-star as Miss Swanson plays a tyrannical matron in charge of a vast wine empire and her somewhat stinging means at control. For those with a taste for period-gangster pieces, a pilot for a new show airs on CBS tomorrow at eight-thirty in the form of Manhunter. In this film we have Ken Howard (Adam's Rib") going after a pair 01 shoot 'em up gangsters in 1933 after they knock off his girlfriend. Gary Lockwood, Stephanie Powers, Tim O'Connor, and James Olsen co-star. Finally, some soap called "Unwed Father" is dished up on ABC's Wednesday made-for-TV film starring Joseph Bottoms as a teenager trying to retain custody of his child born out of wedlock with the help of Kay Lenz. Abort it. 
***** 
Saturday's late film on 16 is The Robe, the classic Richard Burton-Jean Simmons film about Christianity after the crucification. Victor Mature has a meaty role in this somewhat appropriate film considering Lent begins with Ash Wednesday this Wednesday. The network late night en­tertainment shows have a few notable goodies. Robert Culp and Eli Wallach are trapped in Arctic snows by forces they cannot comprehend in A Cold Night's Death tomorrow. The music by Gil Melle (The Andromeda Strain) is hauntingly superb. Marilyn Monroe's life is examined by Peter Lawford, Shelley Winters, and John Huston Wednesday on ABC (a film about her en­titled The Sex Symbol starring Connie Stevens has been cancelled, incidentally, due to the implications drawn between her and Bobby Kennedy). And Alan King looks at the infamous Sunset Strip Thursday on ABC. All the shows except The Robe begin at ten thirty (The Robe at ten). 
The Bob Hope Special tonight at the ACC will be edited to one hour and shown this Friday at seven-thirty on NBC. To repeat the guest list which has grown on a weekly basis, Hope will have Debbie Reynolds, Robert Goulet (signed on Saturday night), Juliet Prowse, Charley Pride, Les Brown and his Band of Renown, and Ara Par­seghian. Not a bad line-up at all. The Oscars: The Academy of Arts and 
,:,~w-(cont!nued on page 6) 
(. 

,.,;_, . . .~ . . . i' ' ~ .. . . . . •• ,. ...... ; ..... -'!....! -! _.... ~· ~ ­
AcademyAwards slated lor April 
(continued from page 5) 
Sciences announced their nominations for Oscars this year to be presented April 2 at the 46th annual Oscar presentations. The Exorcist and The Sting (co-produced by Notre Dame graduate Tony Bill who also did Steelyard Blues) each took away ten 
nominations.  I  shall  list  the  major  
nominations (ie.,  those that  most  people  
care  about)  only  below  do  to  space  

Proposes to equip Stepan 

limitations and my not wanting to try the patience of our typists. The first name or film I list is my pick for the winner (ie., /those who I think will win, not necessarily those who I want to win although the two 
oftentimes do coincide). 
Best Picture: The Sting, The Exorcist, American Graffiti, Cries and Whispers, A Touch of Class. Best Actor: Jack Lemmon for Save The Tiger orAl Pacino for Serpico, Marlon Brando for Last Tango in Paris, 
82 per cent. Trivia Question: Name Bob Hope's seven
Capp wants new sports center 
"Road" pictures with Bing Crosby. I think 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 
Ray Capp and Greg Ericksen, candidates for SBP, revealed their plan yesterday to convert Stepan Center into an indoor sport.; eenter. 
The plan involves setups of'two half basketball courts, and one volleyball court. The two full basketball courts could double for tennis courts. The entire center would consist of portable nets and goals which could be removed during other uses of Stepan Center. 
According to Capp, the plan has the tentative approval of Student Affairs Central Staff to the extent that Dr. Philip Facenda, vice president for Student Affairs agreed to let the plan be released to The Observer. 
For the off-campus student, Capp and Ericksen propose an off­campus bureau with cabinet status in student government to deal with the problems of the off-campus student. 
The candidates have sectioned off the city of South Bend into six districts, according to the concen­tration of students in various areas. Each of these districts would be represented by a com­missioner. 
The commissioners under the Capp-Ericksen plan would keep files of off-campus houses and apartments containing: com­plaints of past tenants, lists of all improvements to the residence, terms of the lease and price of rent. 
The candidates plan to improve the shuttle bus service for off campus students. Capp cited the shuttle service at the Universities of Texas at Houston and Iowa, where much of the shuttle service was financed by advertising carried on the busses. 
"Over the past few weeks," Capp said, "we've been more con­cerened with how to solve problems rather than how to be elected. 
"Everybody's talking about ideals. We're idealistic too, but 
Jazz Combo set to play 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band Combo will present a concert of small group jazz on Monday, February 25th at 9:00 p.m. in the main lounge of La Fortune. 
This first appearance by the combo during this semester will highlight new music performed in their free, interaction approach to group improvisation. Featured compositions will include a new work, "Black Moon," by Nick Talarico and John Colrane's "Resolution." 
Performing at this "Jazz at Nine" concert will be Nick Talarico on trombone, Charles Rohrs on tenor sax, Mick Nickerson on bass, Bill Boris on guitar, Neil Gillespie on electric 
keyboards, Ken Scarola on drums
and Bob Smith on congas. 

TMre 1s.llo.ach:tt~charge .••.. --~.;..,..;..,;,..;..;...-·""·..;,·.,;.·,;.·..,.·;,;·,.;,·•·,;;,-;,.'----------,;.,·.:··-...~ 


we'd like to be practical for a In conjunction with the Observer while," Ericksen added. column, the Capp-Ericksen 
Claiming that the student body is platform proposes a weekly TGIF not disinterested in student in the Rathskeller of LaFortune government but rather apathetic Student Center where students because students don't know could come to relax as well as talk what's going on, Capp proposed a to the SBP and SBVP about the weekly column in The Observer issues before the student body. where he would explain to the Capp and Ericksen did not student body what student campaign much this past weekend, government had done in the past largely because Ericksen, junior week, and what issues are coming class president, was busy with 
up in the future. Junior Parents' Weekend. 
Gahagan pushes platform, ideas 
(continued from page 2) 
campus students have to go during 
non-class hours and "the present 
student center is a disgrace," he 
pointed out. 
"A renovated LaFortune should 
be open by next fall," declared 
O'Connell. 
In an informal discussion later in Morissey, the candidates talked about different aspects of govern­ment. O'Connell felt that a sub­
11 IIIIHIIIII1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111. 
1Monitor Erratum 
In last Friday's issue of Monitor,
the fianllines of two short stories were not printed due to a printer's error. The last sentence of "Mind's Eye Martyr" by Leanne Jacques should read: "That night, Walter Tarey became his own lonely god." The final paragraph of "Foot­steps" by R. Thomas Thues should read: 
Well, this was easier than that kitchen knife. It was too dull anyway, she mused. 
The editors of Monitor apologize 
to the authors and to any reader 
who may have become confused. 
11111111 HlltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllH 
committee such as the one proposed wold be an important factor in Student Government next year. "We want to open things and question why," he said. 
Gahagan added that the HPC, the link between the students and the student government, could become an even more effective body under the Gahagan-O'Connell administration. 
McLaughlin ticket 
(continued from page 2) 
"This is one aspect that makes us different from other candidates," elaborated McLaughlin. 
"Our proposals do not base their success on the reaction of non­student groups or any situations beyond our control. Programs will be implemented only after we are in office and have had the chance to review situations and alter­natives," stated McLaughlin. 
McLaughlin and Flanagan will speak Monday at Alumni, 8:00 p.m.; at Morrissey, 9:30p.m.; at Stanford-Keenan, 11:30 p.m. They will also be at Dillon, 9:00 Tuesday. 
Support Your Own Cause! 
Sign the INPIRG Petition 
CALIFORNIA 
for Spring Break 
$212.27 round trip 
Only 30 seats available to los Angeles 
Leave O'Hare March 8, 6:00 pm. Arrive L.A. 8:04pm. Return individually. Busses available to O'Hare. 
For more information call NO Travel Bureau:
2 8 3•7o8o 
Tiger, John. Houseman for Paper Chase,Jack Nicholson for The Last Detail, Robert Randy Quaid for The Last Detail. BestRedford for The Sting. Best Actress: Supporting Actress: Tatum O'Neal for
Joanne Woodward for Summer Wishes, Paper Moon, Candy Clark for AmericanWinter Dreams, Barbra Streisand for The Graffiti' Madeline Kahn for AmericanWay We Were, Ellen Burstyn for The Graffiti, Linda Blair for The ExorcistExorcist' Glenda Jackson for A Touch of Sylvia Sidney for Summer Wishes, Winte;
Class, Marsha Mason for Cinderella 
Dreams. Best Director: Bernardo Ber­
Liberty. 

to~ucci for Last Tango in Paris, George Roy Best Supporting Actor: Jason Miller for 
Hill for The Sting, Ingmar Mergman forThe Exorcist or Vincent Gardenia forBang Cries and Whispers, George Lucas forthe Drum Slowly, Jack Gilford for Save the 
American Graffiti, William Friedkin for The Exorcist. Incidentally Best Original Screenplay has the same nominees as Best Picture. My batting average last year was 
it an appropriate question. 

Yesterday afternoon, they ap­peared for the endorsement in­terviews of both the Observer and WSND. 
Among Monday's campaign activities, Capp announced a debate between their ticket and the ticket of Ed Rahill and Blake Wordal scheduled for 11:30 p.m.in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. 
In addition to the debate with Rahill ·and Wordal, Capp and Ericksen will be appearing together on Monday ngith at St. Ed's, Holy Cross, Sorin and Flanner Halls. 
Tuesday night, the candidates plan to visit Zahm, Dillon, and Grace, with a possible stop at Badin. 
·Suo)l SuoH 
-puv '!loa-•om-'D!dom­
•ooooJow-'JDQ!ZUDZ-'oJOdDSU!S -0~ pDO(f oJ4.L : JoMSUV 
The Thomas A. Dooley Foundation is Working•.•• 
in Cambodia, in Laos, 
in Nepal, in the hearts 
of millions. 

for information 
on how you can help: Write P.O. Box 1195 South Bend, Ind. 
LATIN AMERICAN FILM SERIES 
Feb. 25  The Green Wa II ( Peru) 7: 30 Architecture Auditorium  
Mar. 4  The Jackal of Nahueltoro (Chile) 7:30 Architecture Auditorium Admission Free  

Upcoming Alliance for Progress (Argentina) The Gods and the Dead (Brazil)
Movies: 
Time and Place will be announced. 
Tonight at 8:30 pm 
NOTRE DAME ACC Presents I 
I. 

BobJpe BeiKiit
with ••• 

DEBBIE REYNOLDS JULIET PROWSE and CHARLEY PRIDE 
special appearance by • • • • 
ARA PARSEGHIAN 
MON. FEB. 25th 8:30 P.M. 
Ticket Prices: Only $4.00 
Bleacher 
seats 
re11ain 
Tickets on sale at ACC Box Office Gate 10, 9-S daily and one hour before showtime. 
I~!' t 't.o. 

-
Irn;;g~~
!Loyola fundi 
····z O'C .;.:,
l.~or onnorl 
Anyone who attends school age athletic contests is familiar with the cry of "Who's he?" when the opposition is introduced. It is about as popular as the seemingly ever present "We're number one!" In psychological analysis the lack of recognition is aimed at developing feelings of in­security and inadequacy in the opponents. Apologies are then in order to the analyst for our borrowing of the phrase in an attempt to accomplish the reverse that is, recognition and accomplishments. Our particular framework is that of one Tom O'Connor. -Who's he? 
He's a young man who has spent fourteen of his thirty-six years as a basketball coach. For three of these years (1968-71) he was at Notre Dame University. Assistant coaches generally live in anonymity and while Tom's contribution to three straight twenty win, NCAA tournament bid seasons, were important, they passed largely unnoticed by those on the periphery of the program and even by many of those close to its center. 
Who's he? One of Tom's main responsibilities was to scout the op­position and gather information on which to build a game plan. His ob­servations helped to lead Notre Dame to victories over such giants as UCLA and Kentucky. Like most assistant coaches, Tom almost never saw an away game and seldom was present for even home games. In a walk across the campus, his chance of being recognized by the average student was negligible. His willing acceptance of this role characterized his loyalty and dedication to coaching. To not share in the exhilarating moments of victory, or even to suffer in the crushing finality of defeat, is the cross of thf~ assistant coach. O'Connor carried it well. 
Who's he? He's the guy who coached the frosh, who almost no one paid any attention to until they reached the varsity. Rather than prepare for their own games, their main function was to prepare the varsity for theirs. Each day the "pre-team" was led from the freshmen pit to the varsity arena,like lambs being led to slaughter. Each day Tom O'Connor instructed, implored, scolded and encouraged his charges to be Sidney Wicks, Dan Issei, or George McGinniss, etc. Each day they came up short, but his enthusiasm never waned. 
Who's he? He's the man who volunteered his services to "Operation Reach-Up" each summer. While this community relations program gained a fair amount of publicity, he stayed quietly in the background. Any one who knew Tom at all well recognized his great humility. Probably his most creditable trait as a coach was his equal treatment of all the players. In this day of pampering the star, or favoring the regulars, Tom O'Connor was a rebel. Whether you were an Austin Carr or a fringe player, he felt you were equally vital to the team. 
Who's he? He's the coach who did the recruiting legwork. He seemed to be forever either on his way to a high school game or to be answering recruiting correspondence. After viewing a high school all-star tour­nament, where everyone was raving about Searcy (St. John's), Elmore <Maryland), and Grant (New Mexico State), he came back high on a still developing player named Shumate "who never seemed to for~e a shot." Folloowing a trip to observe Brian Taylor (Princeton-New York Mets), then the country's leading high school scorer, he returned liking an un­der-classman who played against Taylor. There he was the next day at his typewriter initiating the recruiting of a sophomore named Brokaw. He viewed the Illinois State Tournament and even though the tall, skinny kid Novak's team lost, helikedthe way he competed. Then there was the prestigious Dapper Dan Tournament in Pittsburgh where the Penn­sylvania All-Stars played a team representing the rest of the U.S. The whole coaching contingent was impressed with the obvious talents of the Pennsylvania starting guards, McCarter (UCLA) and Coleman (Jacksonville) as well as the third guard and all-around athlete named Clements. Still O'Connor liked the way that fourth guard made two pressure free-throws with the game at stake. What was his name again, Dwight <The Ice Man) Clay. 
Who's he? "He is really a great man," Gary Novak said. "He helped the freshman team a great deal. He had an interest for all the players. You knew you could go and talk with him if you had a problem." 
Who's he? "Coach O'Connor had a personal interest in the student­athlete," John Shumate recalled. "He wasn't flamboyant; he was just a hard-worker. It is very shocking and it really hurts to hear about this. Any body who believes in God should say a prayer for him and his family." 
Who's he? Sadly, he's the man who's fighting a terminal illness in Chicago. The game is already in over-time and the horn's ready to signal the end. With a wife and two young children (five and three) on the sidelines, one could cry out with the. injustice of it all. Why this young, dedicated, enthusiastic, loyal and humble young man? But Tom would not want this type of reaction. He is dying as he lived, with courage and dignity. 
Tom never received the acclaim of a John Wooden or an Adolph Rupp, or even of a John Dee or Dick Phelps. Not many men do. Yet somehow, one knows that when the final tournament scores are added up, he'll have his place right along side the giants of the game. You see the way he lives has scored many points than any amount of public notoriety. 
Who's he? While Tom was really a product of Jesuit education and a 
son in whom they are well pleased, even this proud and possessive order 
would not mind us claiming him as one of our own. 
Who's he? He's a man! Who's a man? He's a Notre Dame man! Tom 
O'Connor! Tom O'Connor! Tom O'Connor! 
Tom O'Connor is presently an assistant coach at Loyola of Chicago. Their final home game, Tuesday, February 26, has been designated Tom O'Connor night. The university has also established a fund to help defray medical expenses as well as to provide for the future needs of Tom's .family. Contributions can be mailed direct to Loyola University­
I·' ·O'Connor .• ·' 0 Fund, <r r Chicago o o •' 60626. ,.........,._,.. • _. 9 , . ••• ~• 0 ,'lo .• 
• o o ' ._.... ... 0 • r " 9 ............ •••••• • .... •" .... •'"' 
-~---------~--~----~-----­
Monday, February 25, 1974 the observer 
7 

Stickmen go West 
by George Eckes 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team 
has been working out daily in 
anticipation for the 1974 season 
that starts out with a 10-day trip in 
Denver, Colorado from March 9-19. 
The stickmen will put finishing touches on their skills with an exhibition encounters against the Air Force Academy on March 11, 
leers' split 
(continued from page 8) 
Angie Moretto openea the scoring 'A ith a second-effort goal at 
5:34 of the first period. Bumbacco tied it off feeds from Bill Nyrop and Kronholm, skating down the left wing and slapping the puck from about the same area of the ice as he did Friday night. The goal came at 8:33 of the second period. 
The three-goal outburst of the third came with both teams down a man. Doug Lindskog was detected for tripping, and Notre Dame tried to get Kronholm off the ice. But, an Irish skater jumped too soon on the ice, and ND was called for too many men. Both penalties, at 7:21 of the last period, proved to be Notre Dame's undoing. 
Kardos found a loose puck at his feet, and his backhander caught the Irish netminder by surprise for a goal at 7:42. Jack Brownschidle, shortly afterwards, pokechecked the puck away from Michigan's Pat Hughes, but the puck still found its way back to the Wolverine freshman. His shot knuckled through the air and past Kronholm at 8:52 for the game­winner. 
Randy Neal's stuff shot, coming after the Michigan junior skated behind the Irish net, cushioned the Wolverine victory at 10:47. Ray DeLorenzi, with the Irish on the powerplay, scored a meaningless goal, tipping the puck past Moore at 14:43. 
Colorado College, with whom the Irish are battling for the last playoff spot, moved within one point of Notre Dame with its loss and tie over the weekend. If the Tigers should sweep Denver this weekend while the Irish are treading water at Wisconsin, Notre Dame will find itself back in South Bend on Sunday next. 
SCORE BY PERIODS Michigan ..... 00 2 0 o-2
00 ••• 00 ...... 
Notre Dame. . . .. I Z 1-4 FIRST PERIOD ND-8umbacco (Nyrop), 4:00 M~ughes (Moore, Trudeau), 11:42 M-Kanlos (Dufek), 18:52 Penaltics-Shand {M), 4:58: Larson {NO), 1:42: Walsh (NO), 14: 16; Curry (ND), 14:18; Fox (M), 14:16; Cullen (M). 14:16. SECOND PERIOD NO-Curry (Willi~ms, Israelson), 5:2t NO-Walsh (Bumbacco. Williams), 
0
10:37 . 
Penalties-D. Lindskog (M), 1:26; Walsh (NO), 1:26: Dufek (M),. 4:02; Curry (NO), 8:0.1; Bourque (NO), 15:32; Moretto (M), 17:01. 
THIRD PERIOD ND-Bumbacco (Williams, Walsh), 9:46 Penalties-Curry (NO), 5: 10; Bencb (M), 11:21 
SCORE BY PERIODS Michigan 00 I 0 3-4
........... 00 ..... 
Notre Dame ............ 00 0 I 1-2
... 

FIRST PERIOD 
M -·Mor:etto (Fox), 5:34 
Penalties-Walsh (NO), 5:51; Neal 
(M), 7:02; T. Lindskog (M), 10:03; Na­
tale (M), 10:56. 
SECOND PERIOD NO -Bumbacco (Nyrop, Kron· bolm), 8:33 · Penalties -T. Lindskog (M), 5:00; 
D. Lindskog (M), 5:00; DeLorenzi. (ND), $:•; Curry (ND), 5·00; Manery (II), 17:18.. 
THIRD PERIOD . 
M-Kardos (Man~ry. Palmer), 7:42 
·M-Hughes (Fanlig, T. Lindskog), 
1:52 
II -Neal (Moretto, Palmer~. 10:47 
ND-DeLorenzi (Israelson, Nyrop), 
14:43 Penalties -Natale (M), 4:04; D. Lindskog (M), 7:21; Bench (ND), 7:%1; 
followed by games with Colorado College and Denver on · March 13 and 14 respectively. 
This year's schedule begins March 22 and 23 at the Ohio State Tournaments, where Coach Rich O'Leary's squad will get a crack at the only team thnt marred their last year's 10-1 record, Columbus. 
"Conditioning ar;d deciding on positions are being stressed now," says co-captinan Geoff Lyden. We were hit hard by graduation, and choosing mid-fielders and at­tackers will be ou~· primary con­cern". 
If the fall exhibition seaso 1 was any indication of what is to come beginning in March. lacrosse fans won't have much to worry about. ND won 3 of 4 matches against the likes of the University of Michigan and Purdue. 
One of the reasons for the fall success was the piay of goalie, Joe Pelley. Coach Rich O'Leary says, "Joe had an exceptional fall outing, and we are expecting another set of strong performances coming this spring." 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

Criminals beware!! There's a revolutionary bike lock disigned to foil bike theives. If you dont want your 10-speed ripped off, phone Judy 4970. 
Handmade Indian Jewelry from the Southwest. Call Tom 8373. 
The Galaxy-a panpasonic modular system. compatibleS­track included. $135 or $150 wiht S-track. Call Ed at 1506. 
Golf Clubs 3 wood 8 irons steel shafts. 1 yr. oldc. Mike 287­9553 after 6. 
2 Bob Hope tickets, $6.50. Call 8539. 
TV, 17 in, Magnavox, B + W, VHF-UHF $35. Bruce 289-4336. 
2 floor tix for Bob Hope. Call 1409. 
Top quality reel-to-reel tape decks Unopened at low prices. Call 8436 or 878.2. 
NOTICES 

Morrissey Loan Fund up to $150 for 30 days, 1 per cent interest service charge . One day wati. 
Basement of La Fortune. 
Hours 11:15-12:15. 

SMC Summer School in London with travel in Ireland, Scotland, Wales, England, and Paris. May-20-Jun 20. College credit available. $795 plus tuitionProfessor Black 284-4948 office 272-3726 home. 
Spring Break in Auclpulco, Bahamas, or Puerto Rico val Vagabond Tours. $199. Kel 233· 4818. 
Good tlx now available for the Mar. 1 and 2 performances of 2 Gentlemen of Verona. Studnt Union ticket office open 1-5 daily. 
WANTED 
Will pay for copy of tapes of assassination talks. Call 1409. 
Newly opened night club in N D area needs cocktail waitresses. Call Dave 232-5653. 
Motor home leaving for Aspen Colo. March 8th. Need riders to share gas. Call AI Brasseur 289-2463 before 5. 
Urgent!! Need ride to NJ March 7th. Will share driving and expenses. Call im­mediately. Margaret 234-7596. 
Need 2 tix each night for Wisconsin hockey series. Call Pat after 5 272-4398. 
2 or 3 guys to live in a 7 man house next year. Close to campus. Call Alec at 8213 SOON. 
Need ride on 1-80 to Iowa City, Iowa Thurs. or Fri. 
2 guys want 2 girls to share house for Sept. Call Mike at 1100. 
Ride wanted to Boston (Har­vard( for break. Will share expenses. Call Mary Jo -284­4105. 
PERSONALS 
To eyes of stormy green. In your gifted presence the melodies of majestic conifers in mountain winds seem in­significant to the swelling crescendos ascending in lofty choirs of my quaking sou. Yours eternally, 
The Judge. 
To the guy who returned my jacket. My keys are inthe coat that you took. Contact Dave 8625. 
Flash When there's a will, there's a way. Best Wishes, Marianne and Judi. 

National Coordinat1ng Committee for Just1ce Under Law 
PRISO~ REFORl\1 HE~EFIT 
CONCERT 
\\ i rh 

JOHN DENVER 
Nitt\' (;ritt\' l)irt Band 
. . STFVL C()()Dl\IA~ 
Bill ()LIVER s,,·oftord 
MONDAY 
MARCH 4th 8:00 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME Athletic & Convocation Center 
Ticket Prices: Loge Main Floor Platform $6.50 Lower Arena $5.50 Bleachers $3.50 
Fardig (M), 11:10; D. Lindskog (M), 
Tickets on sale NOW at ACC Ticket Office and 
14:1'; T. Lindskog (M), 15:13; Brown­1 schldle (ND), )7;27; D. Lindskog (M),. . 
Student Union Ticket Office. 
' ....)~:~, .....,........... ' .. ' .........-.........................-.......-............._.. 
Adrian's 41 dazzle Mountaineers 
12 rbds.,three steals give Irish 108-80 
by PPggy Lawlor 

Novak was t1·e third Irish scorer in Notre Dame basketball team since 
double figures with ten points, the 1957-58 squad went 24-5. Three 
It was a great day for the while Brokaw had nine, along with regular season games remain, at number two's. The second ranked ten assists, a new season high. home with Ball State tomorrow Irish basketball team had its Clay, still recovering from a foot night and Villanova Saturday, and 
second highest point total of the injury suffered in the LaSalle at Dayton one week from tonight. season Saturday in defeating the game February 6, did not score. Victories will give Phelps the best University of West Virginia 108-80 Irish team ever, as they begin play for its 22nd win of the season. Freshmen substitutes Toby in the NCAA tournament the Ad:-ian Dantley, now the second­Knight and Bill Paterno turned in second week of March. 
highest scorer for the Irish this fine performances of seven points season, earned game scoring apiece. Peter Crotty added three,
honors with 41 points on 18 field while Ray Martin, Hawk Stevens "You're never really ready for goats and five of five free throws. and Myron Schuckman each had the tournaments," Phelps com­mented Saturday. "We're just
two, for the total108 points, second 
From the opening minutes, trying to work on some things that 
only to the 112 scored in the season
there was never any question have bothered us, in hopes of
opener against Valparaiso. 
whether or not the Irish, and preparing well." Dantley in particular, would have a phenomenal game. Early in the West Virginia head coach Sonny first half, Notre Dame held an Moran termed Notre Dame "by far If Saturday's game was any imposing 17-7 lead, and 11 of those the best we've played this year. indication of how hard the Irish are points belonged to A.D. The Irish They have no weaknesses." trying, they'll be ready for tour­lead continued to grow as Dan­Dantley, according to Moran nament play-and they won't come Hey's point total mounted, and a 20 "adds another dimension to the out as number two. point halftime lead (56-36) was entire team. His play has spoken stretched to 32 (98-66) when for itself." Dantley was replar.:ed with slightly Where will theymore than five minutes left to play. zone defense,
The Mountaineer frustrated early by the quick Irish rank?
Irish head coach Digger Phelps start, forced Moran to attemptpraised his star freshman's game, man-to-man coverage. "They

saying, "We knew he had this kind Box Score
really hurt us," he admitted.
of performance in him, and I'm Phelps, on the other hand, felthappy for Adrian that he got it." 
his press worked well. "Because
But Phelps was also quick to point NOTRE DAME (118)
of it, we got a quick jump on West fg II n;b pi piSout that the game, in which John 
Virginia, and they weren't able to Garv Novak . . . . . 4-9 2·2 6 2 10Shumate scored 25 points, and four get back into the game." The Irish Adrian Dantlev .. 18-23 :;.s 12 3 41other Irish players had at least 
John Shumate· ... 11·21 3-7 13 2 25
forced 22 turnovers 15 of them in
seven, was "an excellent team Dwight Clay.. . . 11-5 11-0 2 I 0
the first half, whi~e yielding the Fresl'lman Adrian Dantley almost single-handeclly downed West
effort." Garv Brokaw 3·7 3-4 2 9 
ball themselves just 11 times. B>ll.l'aterr.n.. 3·10 H I Virginia with a team season-high 41 pts. on Saturday. Ray Martm . 1·2 11-0 I
Dantley agreed with Phelps' 

Pete rrutty . 0·2 3·5
appraisal of the game. "The other For the Mountaineers, 
Toby Kmght... . 1·3 5·> 2 I
four guys <Shumate, Gary Novak, sophomore Warren Baker led the Billy DrPw .. . .. 0·1 11-0 0 0 leers-Michigan spllt CC ties Gary Brokaw, and Dwight Clay) scoring with 26 points coupled with Dave Kuzmirz . 0-2 0-0 0 0 were feeding and boxing out un­11 rebounds. Levi Phillips and Myron Schuck· 
0.0 0

derneath, allowing me to get a lot Jerome Anderson were the only man J.l I 
Cbris Stevens .. . 1·1 0-0 0 0 
Playoff chances
of points from inside." other players in double figures, 
TotalS ........43-87 22·29 42 19 108
with 19 and 13 respectively. 
WEST VIRGINIA (BtlShumate, who is now averaging fg It reb pf pts 
over 23 points per game, led the Srott McDonald. 2·3 0.1 I I 4
With their 22nd victory, the Irish 
Bob Hornstein. . 2·o 0-0 3 I 4
team in rebounds Saturday with 13. now wins anv 
remain question
have more than 
Warren Bakrr .12·~4 2·5 II 3 26 Eartha Faust. . 1·8 0·0 3 2 2 Levi Ph1lhps . 8·15 3-4 4 4 19 by John Fineran 
J Anderson .... !i-10 3-1 9 4 13 Chris Sprenger 1·4 IH 3 4 Some will call it treading water; others say it is running in place. Larry Carr. . . . J.4 2·3 6 5 Whatever it is, Notre Dame's hockey team seems to be able to do it with Ha•old Black . . . 1·2 0·0 0 0 •consistency this season, and it certainly isn't helping the Irish icers 
0.0 I

DaVId McCardle 0·0 0 lock-up a playoff spot. 
J1m Schne1d~r.. J.l 0-0 0 0 
Last weekend in the Athletic and Convocation Center, Notre Dame and 
Robert Sims .. .. 1·1 t~O 2 0
OBSERVER 
Totals ...... 3!i-i6 10·18 42 25 KO Michigan each scored a 4-2 win, but Notre Dame's came again on Friday llalrllme: ND 56. West \'lrgmHt 36 night. Fortunately, the Irish icers finish their season on the road,
Shooting: ND 43 or 87 lor 49 p<:>r rent. 
because some students have adopted the philosophy to go Friday night
WPst Vtrgtma 35 ol i6 lor 40 per C'ent Turnovers: West \'irgtma 22. :'\D II. and sell their tickets for Saturday. 
Assists: )1;0 24 (Brokaw 10): West What a shame. The Irish have looked so devastating on Friday nights 
SPORTS 
Virginia 9 (Phillips 4) 
this semester at home. Michigan Tech fell 7-1 on Friday night of
Ulllciais· Gary Muncy and George Solomon (Big TPn). "Number-one" weekend in January, and Michigan State, too, fell on a Attendance. 11.345. 
Friday rather easily, 8-3, three weekends ago. 
Last Friday night was a masterpiece. The Irish could have easily shutout. the Wolverines the two Michigan goals, both in the first period, came after Irish mistakes. Notre Dame, however, kept its poise, and some timely scoring by the Brian Walsh-Ian Williams-Eddie Bumbacco line finally did the visitors in. The win was Notre Dame's and Coach Lefty Smith's 100th since the sport was resurrected in 1968. 
Bumbacco, who has had his problems this season, didn't have any this weekernd, scoring three goals, two in Friday's win. The first, a slapper from the left circle, simply beat Michigan's 5-5 goalie, Robbie Moore, at 4:05. 
The Wolverines came back, however, to take a 2-1 first period lead. First, Pat Hughes skated through the man-short Irish defense for a goal at 11:42, and then, with the Irish caught deep in the Michigan end, Don Dufek, Michigan's monster linebacker during the fall, threw a beautiful pass to center Gardy Kardos. Kardos' shot got through Kronholm at 18:52. 
The Irish, however, controlled the play in the period, and perhaps realizing this, controlled the play for the rest of the game. Steve Curry's tip-in goal, off beautiful feeds from Larry Israelson and Ian Williams, slid by Moore at 5:29. · 
The Irish went ahead to stay at 10:37 when Brian Walsh scored. Williams fed Bumbacco and Eddie, skating his off-wing, sent a weak backhander at Moore. Moore, perhaps, was slow getting to the puck, but Walsh wasn't, tipping the puck home while skating by the net. 
Bumbacco finished the scoring at 9:46 of the third. Williams and Walsh refused to lose the puck with their aggressive digging, and the former sent the puck in front to last year's All-America left wing. 
The Wolverines refused, however, to play dead, but several of their chances were thwarted by Mark Kronholm's super saves or some rough checking by the Irish, Pat Novitzki and Ric Schafer inflicting much of the damage. Kronholm finished with 21 saves, while Moore was tested frequently, making 38, several of them unbelieveable. 
The two teams played to a 1-1 standoff in Saturday's first two periods, but three goals by Michigan within a 3:05 span, gave the Wolverines a split. 
(continued on page 7) 





