
----------------~-~-----~,--------~-~~-~-~ 
Oa The Inside 
Faccenda on Commission ••.page 2 
Howard and "Shu" •••page 11 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thunde , March 21, 1D

Vol. II No. 95 
Variety of sizes, prices 
0-C housing still plentiful 
by Ken Bradford 
"I'm really looking forward to living off-campus. Staff Reporter It's a chance to take on the added responsibility of living in a new more personal environment," Lewis, 
Director of Off-Campus Housing Fr. James Shilts a Flanner sophomore, added.
stated yesterday that plenty of Off-campus living units Junior. Mike Henke found convenience a big factor in are still available for students intending to live off­choosing a house. "All the utilities are paid for in the campus next year. 
base rent, it is furnished, and it's close to campus," Henke observed.
The Off-Campus Housing Office has lists of over 100 Shilts said there is no special procedure to follow for separate apartments, 24 apartment complexes, 20 students wishing to live off-campus next year. "You houses, and 60 rooms in private houses which are just fail to turn in your application for on-campus
apparently still open for students next year. a secure room
housing by the Aril 15 deadline a elsewhere," Fr. Shilts stated.
"My feeling is that the first rush was to rent houses Thus, there is no way of telling just how manyand then to the apartments," Shilts observed. "The students are planninl!: to leave campus next semestPrrooms for rent are untouched so far," he continued. 
until March 15. This means that a waiting list for those The rooms for rent in private houses are available in students forced off-campus by the lottery wbo are a wide variety of prices and locations. Most rents hoping for on-campus rooms will not be drawn up untilinclude kitchen privileges and private baths and range that time, Shilts explained.
in price from ten to thirty dollars a week. "The apartments are also in a variety of sizes for 
"From all the indications we've received so far, tbebetween 2 and 6 students and at a variety of prices and " ... the flow off-campus has been orderly and fairly flow off-campus has been orderly and fairly large,"

locations," Shilts noted. large." 
Shilts stated.
A major development in the apartment situation at Ground-breaking for Campus View is scheduled to The Off-Campus Housing Office will help studentsNotre Dame is the expected construction of a new take place by Aprill and Kleiser assures students that having difficulty arranging off-campus housing byapartment compex very close to campus. the apartment will ee ready for occupation next supply lists of available units !indlendingadvice on tbeThis new complex, to be named Campus View semester. More information on Campus View can be safety and quality of housing in certain areas of theApartments, is expected to be entirely rented out for obtained at the Student Housing Office or by calling city.
next year within 4 or 5 weeks. Sixty of the 96 units in Kleiser at 232-5853. 
Shilts voiced his concern that some students mightthe soon-to-be-built structure have already been leased Almost half of the area houses offered to student unknowingly choose housing in high-crime areas or befor next year, according to apartment manager Joe renters have already been leased. Availability, con­careless in signing leases.

Kleiser. venience, and location seem to determine the "There are some people who simply don't know theWe're trying to gear this effort toward the Notre popularity of houses for rent. 
city too well, and we're willing to sit down, talk toDame student, and we're really going to enjoy working . Bill Lewis, who has rented a house on Ironwood them, and give them advice," Shilts noted.
with them," Kleiser stated. Drive for next semester, stressed the location of the Students interested in exploring the possiblities ofKleiser also pointed to recreational facilities in­house, noting the importance of accessibility to off-campus living are reminded that lists of ho•x,ing
cluding a community building, swimming pool, and a schools, shopping areas, and other faciltites necessary other are available the
units and information in
basketball court at. Campus Views. to off-campus living. 
Housing Office in Room 315 Administration Building. 

Conference Schedule 
TODAY 

9:00a.m. "Reflection on Brown vs. Board of Education, the Continuing Challenge Memorial Library Auditorium Panalists: 
DR. KENNETH CLARK .. JACK GREENBERG, ATTORNEY .. PHINEAS INDRITZ, ATTORNEY .. HON. CONSTANCE BAKER MOTLEY .. LOUIS REDDING, ATTORNEY .. JOSEPH B. ROBISON, ATTORNEY 
10:45 a.m. "Twenty Years Since Brown"-Panel Discussion, Library Auditorium. 
1:40 p.m. Workshops: Panelist will meet with small groups for questions and answers. Center for Continuing Education. 
3:15p.m. Informal Discussions: Panelist will be available on an informal basis with those aHending conference and students, law School lounge. 
8:00p.m. R. Sargent Shriver, "The Role of Executive leadership," CCE Auditorium. 
FRIDAY, MARCH 22 
9:00 a.m. "Current Issues in Desegregation and Equal Education Op­
portunity" Center for Continuing Education Panalists: JOSE A. CABRANES, ATTORNEY HON. RICHARD G. HATCHER DAVID l. KIRP, ATTORNEY RUBY G. MARTIN~ ATTORNEY VILMA S. MARTINEZ, ATTORNEY DR. GARY ORFIELD HON. J. STANLEY POTTINGER HERMAN S. SILLAS, ATTORNEY 
10:45 a.m. "Equal Education: Approaches" -Panel Discussion, Center for Continuing Education _ 
1:40 p.m. Workshops: Panelist will meet with small groups for questions and answers. ·center for Continuing Educatiqn 8:45p.m. Dedication of Center for Civil Rights Reading Room. Remarks: 
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. Address: HON. ARTHUR GOLDBERG Law School Library . 

.. ' 

the observer Thursday, March 21, 1974 
Faccenda chosen chairman 
warld 

briefs 
ANDERS Baltimore MD (UPI)-N. Dale Anderson, who suc­ceeded Spir~ Agnew as 'Baltimore cou~ty execyt~ve, maintains. his innocence and says he will appeal hts convtcbon for extorbon, income tax evasion and conspiracy. 
HOUSTON (UPI)-A Federal Judge orders a 5-year old boy expelled for his hair length readmitted to kindergarten. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Justice Department turns legal guns on trucking industry on issue of minority discrimination and plans action soon against steel industry. 
PHNOM PENH, Cam.-The government pours more rein­forcements into the battle to recapture former royal capital of Oudong but fails to advance. 
an campus taday 
9:00 a.m.-civil, rights conference, "reflections on brown v. board of education -the contuing challenge", library aud. 
9:30 a.m.-people, policy and urban walls cont., "changing the face of the urban scene" by dr. carl w. condit, northwestern, cce 
10:45 a.m.-civil rights conference, "twenty years since brown" panel disc. library aud. 
11:00 a.m.-urban walls conference, "sites of the south bend cityscape: projections," I 
12:30 a.m.-urban walls lunch, panel 
1:40 p.m.-civil rights workshop, q. and a. sessions In cce followed by Informal conferences at 3:30, law lounge, cce 
3:30 p.m.-urban walls panel, "aesthetic dimensions of the en­virons, with david little, essex institute 
4:00 p.m.-lecture, "transport mechanisms of excess electrons" by dr. ing-ylh cheng, radiation lab. conference rm. 
6:00 p.m.-urban walls dinnger mtg., "economic and social benefits of visual improvements," dr. dennis weidenaar. 
7:30 
p.m.-charismatic renewal, "introduction to charismatic renewal, butler bldg. 

7:30 
p.m.-lecture, "the significance of moses as charismatic figure in jewish literature and in the fourth gospel," by w. a. meeks, yale univ., room 10, law school 


8:00 p.m.-civil rights lecture, "the role of executive leadership.'' by hon. r. sargent shrlver. cce 
8:15 p.m.-concert, notre dame spring concert, o'laughlin aud. 
8:30 p.m.-meeting, charlsma'tic prayer meeting, holy cross hall 
by Andy Sqanfeldt Staff Reporter 

Dr. Philip Faccenda, vice­president for Student Affairs, has been appointed chairman of the South Bend Crime Commission. The appointment was made jointly by the Mayor and City Council of South Bend 
Dr. Faccenda will head a nine­member commission including himself, four of whom will be chosen by the Mayor and the other four by the City Council. 
"The purpose of this commission is mostly fact-finding," stated Dr. Faccenda. "We represent the people. The Commission will do all in its power to assist criminal justice agencies to meet their responsibilities to the people. We are not out to replace them. The Commission is merely voluntary." 
For its size, South Bend is in the top ten cities with an increasing crime rate. "We will met, and try to set up a plan that the elected officials can follow to combat crime in South Bend. We are lucky, because our community is not too large to control. So once we determine what the problems are, then we can attack them," said Dr. Faccenda. 
South Bend joins forty other cities throughout the U.S. with city crime commissions. However, South Bend's will be unique in that it is the only one to be supported by the city government. All others have been set up and are funded by private citizens. 
The commission will have to hire 
an executive who, preferably, has 
had some training in law en­
forcement. The commission will 
begin by surveying the area to find 
out the problems. 
"I really doin 't kbow when I am 
going to have time to do this work. 
I may have to cut into my sleeping 
time," said Dr. Faccenda. 
The other eight members should 
be chosen within the rlext couple 
Weekend marathon scheduled. 
proceeds to Muscular Distrophy 


1ft 

Notre Dame Student Govern­ment in conjunction with the Muscular Dystrophy Association of St. Joseph County is sponsoring a 48-hour dance marathon designed to raise money for research into the crippling disease of muscular dystrophy. 
The dance will be held in the Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center from 4:00 p.m. Friday, March 22 until 4:00 p.m. Sunday, March 24. A $300 first place prize will go to the couple who has raised t.he most money and danced the longest . All proceeds from the Dance will go to the Muscular Dystrophy Association of St. Joseph County. 
Jim Jlloe, co-chairman with "H­Man" Etienne, said the dance is part of an over-all Muscular Distrophy drive in the South Bend area. Gene Chism is director of the MD !drive in town. 
The dance committee is providing food, entertainment, and "medical care" for the par­ticipants, according to Roe. Several South Bend establish­ments such as Barnaby's and McDonald's are donating food. 
"Medical care consists of a foot bath and band-aids," added Roe. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester exupt vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year l from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

Beinning on Friday at 4 p.m. DJ's from WRBR will spin ecords for the contestants as well as the public. "We'll try to stay with the oldies," added Roe. In addition, three local bands will appear during the weekend, the first on Friday at 9:30. 
Roe also said that Dan Schippe, activities co-ordinator for the marathon, was planning some extras for the dancers. "We'll try to have bingo, card games, maybe even a halter contest for the girls and a hot-pants contest for the guys,"he said. 
Roe extended an invitation to the general public to attend the dance. "We're asking for a donation at the door which you can direct to support the couple of your choice," he added. 

Money will also be raised by pledges and on a cash per hour basis. A large percentage of the contributions should come from South Bend in response to aletter from ND to the Chamber of Commerce. 
"All proceeds will go to Muscular Dystrophy except the prize money and operating ex­penses, which we try to keep to a minimum," said Roe. 
According to Roe, the marathon 
is progressing better than last year's, when there were seven couples. "We have six couples, now, although we'd like to see about twenty." 
Anyone wishing to help with the dance should call the Student Government Office at 7688 or see Greg Smith, in charge of referees. Those wanting to work on decorations should contact Cathy 
Savage at 1269.
Roe mentioned that although rules state that a couple must 
sponsored, registrations without sponsors will be accepted as as the $5 registration fee is paid.
"When a couple has a sponsor, they draw more money, which the purpose of the dance," 

ek~~~~~~tions 
will be accentedll 
up until 4 o.m. Friday. 
NOTRE DAME BAND 
POPS CONCERT 
O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's College March 21 8:15pm 
Admission FREE 




Crime Comlllission forllled 


Thursday, March 21, 1974 the observer 
3 

Calvin faces Brademasin primary 
people, rather than an elaborately-

by Tom Kruczek financed big spending affair." 
Staff Reporter Calvin believes two of the major 
issues will be inflation and 

Counting on the "average impeachment .. The South Bend working man's vote," Dr. Helen resident continued, "The price of Calvin, physician for the gasoline has doubledwhile the cars University of Notre Dame, has also are made to consume more declared her candidacy for the gas. But who is getting this money 
U.S. Congress, in the third district that is being profited. Certainly of Indiana. She will be running in not those working on the oil rigs. the Democratic primary on May 7 We must work to stop this in-against the incumbent John flation." Brademas, also of South Bend. As for the prospect of im-
Dr. Calvin has been active in peachment of President Nixon, political circles for a number of Dr. Calvin stated that "We are· years, with one of her most recent duty-bound to have this situation interests the election of George · settled speedily, fairly and justly. Wallace to the White House in 1976. And the only way to do this is to let 
She also gave one of the seconding the impeachment case be tried speeches for Wallace in the Miami (accordingto the constitution) not Democratic National Convention. before the TV cameras." It was through Wallace _that Dr. "If he is innocent, declare it," she 
Calvin first came into public spotlight when she led the former governor of Alabamba to a cam­paign victory in the third district 1972 presidential primary.The university physician declared her candidacy Tuesday for the third district primary, which includes the counties of LaPorte, St. Joe, and Elkart. 
"He (Brademas) has been in office for 16 years since 1958," Dr. Calvin observed," and has not had an opponent in the primary since his first victory in 1958. The big point of our campaign will be to bring the representation back to the people. Brademas goes off during congressional recesses and does not report back to the people. He goes elsewhere." 
"He is also, according to a survey, one of the highest traveled congressmen," she continued. L intend to bring the office back to the people here. If elected I would have active offices in each of the counties of the districts so the people could be in contact with us." 
As for financing her "grass roots" campaign, Dr. Calvin remarked that Brademas spent 
$200,000 in 1972. She stated, 
"In fact he even had one con­
tributer from New York financing 
part of the campaign. I intend to 
run a campaign more to the 


South Bend 


youths 

emphasized. "The world is 
looking at us to see if we are a 
nation of laws and do we operate in 
fear and favor of man." 
Dr..Calvin also pointed out there 
is a difference in the law that is 
passed by the legislatures and the 
law that is applied on the streets. 
She claims, "The courts are 
giving their own interpretations of 
the law. In the case of busing, the 
law was thou shalt not bus. But the 
courts say that we have to bus. 
Neither the minority or the 
majority wanted this busing to 
•happen. One man, the judge in a court, is deciding how the law should be applied." 
The final issue with which Dr. Calvin dealt in her Wednesday interview with the Observer was an issue close to her, health care. 
"I don't necessarily feel it is up 
create 

trouble for securityatSt. Mary's 
by Judy Peterson Staff Reporter 
Three youths from the South Bend area were apprehended by St. Mary's Security Tuesday night at approximately 10:05 p.m. The youths were circling the main parking lot near McCandless Hall in a 1965 blue Chevrolet. 
Officer Pallas was bombarded campus. They gave none, although Notre Dame Security reports that the same car ran the main gate at 
with  obscenities  when  he  ap­ 
proached the  car  to  inquire  the  
reason for the  

8:30 presumably looking for a dorm party. 
The youths were asked to leave St. Mary's but refused, prompting Officer Pallas to summon Officer Derdak to the scene. At this time both officers asked them to leave, and received the same response. They then blocked the car's exit route and called the St. Joseph County Sheriff, who immediately recognized the 

~~~~:.... 
10& 

Center 

~E T4EA~ 
BANANA 
CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES Largest selection of 

FRYE BOOTS 
•, t I '',I f.', I I 

as having previous arrest records. 
Although St. Mary's declined to file a complaint, a full report is being forwarded to them from the Sheriff's office concerning the youths' background, in reference to the incident. 
Kenneth Schermerhorn Music Director 
.to the government," she believes the government should recognize what it is. It disturbs me that there is no freedom of choice in which profession a person will choose. Too many are unable to study in the medical schools, yet we have a shortage of doctors right here in St. Joe county." 
"Among the doctors we need to have competition. The problem is the American Medical Societv. In 1908, medical education was taken over by a collective group,as it is today with the A.M.A. · But the government should not recognize one group over another in the representing of any group, as it is doing with recognizing the A.M.A." she said. 
Dr. Calvin concluded by stating "The only time the average man is noticed by congress is election time when the politician wants his vote. But these people deserve a representative who will listen to them when they need help. It will be my -attempt to bring the government back to the people and away from Washington." 
Cultural Arts Commission presents 





"Billy Jack" 
Thursday March 21st at 8 and 10 pm in the Engineering Aud. 

KARATE DEMONSTRATION 

TONIGHT 

See...Board Breaking Self-Defense techniques and Patterns 
7:00 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom 

We offer you a taste of Tae Kwon Do 
V2 semester only $20 
If you've ever thought about Karate, don't put it off! We give you the opportunity to see if you are a potential martial artist. 


N.D. Tae Kwon Do Club 
ELKHART CONCERT CLUB 
PRESENTS 



MILWAUKEE SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 

ASSISTING ARTIST JAMES TOCCO, PIANIST 
ELKHART MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL TUESDAY MARCH 26thAT J'PM 
TICKETS $4.00, $2.50 TEMPLINS, TEADERS BUREAU, READERS SUS.P~NDED CHORD AND AT· THE DOOR· 
. . . .. ' "" 
l 1 
1 
~ 
, 
the observer 


Black arts festival is scheduled 
by Pat Flynn Saturday March 30 at 8:30 p.m., Michigan, will speak in the Library tempting to tell through their art mechanism through which we can Staff Reporter jazz musician Gary Bartz will give Auditorium. Congressman Diggs the history of black America, and look intellectually at he whole 
Beginning Wednesday, March 27 a concert at Stepan Center. Bartz is a seasoned and active member its desires and demands for the question of blackness, and through and continuing through Sunday, is a celebrated black talent whose of the House of Representatives. future. which the total Notre Dame March 31, the Council for Black themes attempt to connect "Journey into Blackness" to be Cassell Lawson, director of community can share in the black Student Organization will sponsor African folk music with his own held Sunday night in the Library Minority Student Affairs at Notre experience," said Lawson. the Black Arts Festival Week. The experience as a black in Baltimore Atiditorium,is an orchestra,chorus Dame, stated that the "purpose of In accordance with this sort of 
time for the occasion will be where he was born and in Harlem and dance performance covering the festival is to provide some kind spirit of the Festival, other "Black Perspectives in Tran­where he -has worked as a black history form tribal Africa of cultural and intellectual at­departments of the University are sition." musician. through slavery and into the mosphere that can create an atttempting to coordinate their 
Three events were noted by At 2 p.m., Sunday, Federal present." awareness and appreciation for activities for the week along the spokesmen for the Council as being Representative Charles W. Diggs, Voice Inc., the six man six black art, black culture, and the themes of black experience, black of particular importance. from thirteenth district in woman company doing the per­black experience itself in the total art, and black culture. 
formance has been touring the Notre Dame community. United States for four years, at-"I see the festival as a type of 

by Ken Girouard 
appointed timec; . Carey said that 
Staff Reporter 
when the volunteers were in­A free tax clinic has been in formed when their appointments
operation at Notre Dame since were they promised to go.February. Under the direction of 
Nevertheless, many of them have the Business School, several not shown up.
graduate business students, law Carey emphasized, "We ap­students and undergraduate have preciate any effort that they could been preparing income tax reports put out. We still want them to for residents of South Bend. 
work, but we ask that if they can't Mike Carey, spokesman for the make it to let us know when they program , explained that the are contacted " students go down to various cen­"This is a crucial year for the ters in the South Bend areawhere program," he added, "If thingsthey have an appointment with a start falling apart at the end it family. At the center, the student might signal the end of the prepares the tax statement. Carey program."
said that the purpose of the Plans for the next few weeks program was to save people 
until April 15th call for the money. operation of eight centers around 
"If anything else," he said, "we town. For this reason, many can save them the five bucks that volunteers are needed in addition 
they WOllld pay H&R Block." 
to the 100-140 students who signedThere have been some problems up in February. If anyone is in­with the clinic, however. For terested, they are asked to contact 

[ 
various reasons many of the Dr. Ken Milani at the Business workers have not shown up at their School for further informantion. 
NOW RtN liNGI c one and two bedroom 
~ 
furnished apartments
A 
Featuring: 
+ SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING

I M 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM u APARTMENTS 
s 
+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 



v 
+ 
REFRIGERATOR 


+ GARBAGE DISPOSAL I + TENNIS COURT 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM
E 
CAMPUS! 



"APARTMENTS WITH
w 
THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south bend· 


(' 
Our Officer Selection Officers are looking for a few good college men­
maybe 3 out of 100-who will make good Marine officers. If you're one of 
them, we'll give you a chance to prove it during summer training at Quan­
tico, Virginia. 
Our program is Platoon Leaders Class, PLC. With ground, air and law 
options. You might even qualify for up to $2,700 to help you through college. 
But if money is all you're looking for, don't waste your time. 
The challenge is leadership. If you want it, work for it. If you've got it, 
show us. It's one hell of a challenge. But we're looking for one hell of a man. 



·-------------~~~ 
I Tb8 B&riD8S. Pleasesendmeintorma~:~·::-1 
I 
Box 38901 Marine Corps Platoon Leaders 
I 
Los Angeles, California 90038 Class. (Please Print) 
I I
Name Age
I I
Address 
City State Zip_____
I I
School Class of 
I I
Phone Social Security# 
If you are a senior, check here for information on Officer Candidates Class o. 



·-------------· 

~--~---~---------~--·---·-------~---------------.... Thursday, March.21, 1-974 .the observer 
Royal assassination attempted 
dogs fanned out through the woods pastime. taxi were struck. A palace spokesman said theLONDON <UPl)-A would-be 
Behind them was another car

assassin fired six shots from an searching for him. The policeman was in serious royal couple "are shaken up­
It was the first assassination carrying a second bodyguard.
automatic weapon into a royal condition with a stomach wound. anyone would be after a think like 
attempt against a member of Police said a white car suddenly
limousine carrying Princess Anne McDonnell was hit in the chest. that-but otherwise they arefine,
British royalty in 35 years. overtook the black royal limousine 
and her husband Capt. Mark A palace spokesman said the thank God." 
The 23-year-old princess, Queen and forced it to the curb.
Phillips near Buckingham Palace attack occured as the limousine Inspector Beaton, who was 
Wednesday. Both were unhurt. Elizabeth'sonly daughter, and her A man jumped out of the car and was driving up the mall to the riding in the car, was taken to 
26 year-old common husband, sprayed at least six shots through
The princess' chauffeur and palace. Westminster Hospital with gunshot
1"'1::\rried in a ceremony rich with the windshield of the limousine.
bodyguard, a policeman and a A man driving a white Ford wounds, police said. The 
pageant in Westminster Abbey The chauffeur, Anne's personal 
newsman were wounded. The "blocked the chauffeur-driven policeman, driver and bystander gunman escaped, apparently into Nov. 14, were driving back to bodyguard, inspector James royal car in the mall with his car," were also hospitalized.
Buckingham Palace after at­Beaton, a uniformed policemanSt. James Park, a royal wood private showing a running to the scene, and Brianadjoining the palace. tending a of documentary film on hor­McConnell, a reporter for the SunDozens of police with tracking semanship, Anne's favorite newspaper, who was riding in a 
Danny O'Hara 
A leprechaun's fare"Well 
squad whom I have come to know this Sunday afternoon 1:oo pm inIt was three years ago at this 
same time of year that I was and love in lasting friendship; and Stepan Center. If you are a rah rah 
finally you the students who have and five foot seven inches in heightselected to follow in the footsteps of stood behind me in victory and or less, please come and try out.
Tom Leckner as the Leprechaun defeat and given me the happy One final comment that I wouldmascot for the University of Notre memories of knowing that I was like to make and that this is a realDame. I would like to take this chance for the smaller members ofopportunity to say thanks to all my once the Leprechaun for Notre Dame. Notre Dame to find a spot in thefellow classmates here at Notre For any and all that are in­nostalgia of Notre Dame.
Dame for allowing me to serve as 
your leprechaun over the past terested in succeeding me, I invite Thank you loyal .sons and 
yon to come to the first practice daughters of Notre Dame!
years. Being the leprechaun here 
gave me a role to play and a 
position to enjoy 
As a freshman, I was the type of 
guy who smoked the Crook cigars 
and drank Miller High Life Beer 
out of quart bottles at the Friday 
night Pep-Rallies. Now as a 
senior, I still smoke Crook cigars 
and attend the Pep Rallies, but 
drink Miller High Life out of 12 oz. 
cans. 
The point that I am making is 
that I have changed very little 
since those days of a happy-go­
lucky mick who just happened to 
be a student at Notre Dame. By
being the leprechaun, I was able to " ... 1 w~s able to be the ultimate Rah Rah, and love every minute of it." 
£¥;~il;tr~:r1;~~i ·r!~-,-..~,,,r,;,;,,~;;;;,y,;;;~;-;-"*1 quietly away I have been living a jj 525 N. Hill \~\~ 
nostalgic and very real life for the f ···· 

~~C~~~~:~ j uv;a!~i,~~~"'i~~;~~:·,~~;u/;~· I 
bei~~!w~;~e[~ a close my most ~\ll Thurs. Nite • Ladies Nite ~~~j
~~=:~elt~~~~:~h~~o~~:~=e~~ \~l: Women FREE Adm. Y2 priced Drinks I I\ football, basketball, and hockey ::~ Dan f ua•fDNIGHT SUN.. w
for their interest in me; all the :·.·. ce 0 1ft ::::: 
ushers and grounds crew men of . »-·=·················=·.•,.:;:;s:;:;s9.;:;:;:;:;:;:;s:.:•:;s:.:·:·:·:·:·:·.·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::~:.:·:·!::::·:W:·.·:·:·:·x=:=:·:·:·:·:-:=:::.::' 
ACC and Football Stadium; the Reverend fathers; my fellow teammates of the cheerleading 


PRE· 
CANA 
A special program for NotreDame students (and their partners) who 
are preparing for marriage. 
April 21, 28, May 5 
SIGN UP IN CAMPUS Ml ST~Y OFFICE 
What kind of man wears an Observer T-shirt? 

(I don't know, what kind??) 
Find 
out! 
Buy one at the Observer oHice Mon. through Fri. J2-4 pm 
[---~------~--~~--~--~----~. 
r· .... iHE.OBSERVitif:·..·:·············~· ...·. 
~ 
A Different Dpinian
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
r 
r EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
~ 
Capital~ Tom Drape 
Editor-in-Chief AnnMcCarry Marlene Zloza 
Editorial Editor Managing Editor 
Punishment Returns 
Terry Keeney John Kloos byran kinr:.LeeGentine 
News Editor Advertising Manager Business Manager 

Thursday, March 21, 1974 


Civil Rights: An Open Mind 
Civil Rights is an issue that has been of concern to Americans for the duration of their short history. All too often this concern has been .manifested in wars, demonstrations or rabble-rousing leaders whose intentions are selfishly egotistical rather than philanthropic 
The action has moved now from the ghetto alleys to the eye of the hurricane. Rash abandon is being replaced by rational thought and action. The dedication of the CCivil Rights Center this week is a step in this direction. 
The objectives-of the Center are simple and straight-forward -to study the problems that now exist, analyze them and propose solutions. 
One major requisite of the success of the Center's pro~ram is interest and input from you. Now is the time to begin taking advantage of the oppotunity to hear 
authorities like Sargent Shriver and 
Arthur Goldberg, as well as Father 
Hesbrugh, the former chairman of the 
Commission on Civil Ri~hts. 
The schedule of conference events is featured on the front page of today's paper. Consult it. Save it. 
But more than that-try it. Prejudice is a problem of the mind. Have an open one and you might be able to help stop it. 
-Ann McCarry 




Dance For Others 
This weekend Notre Dame students will be dancing for the benefit of those who can't-those for whomthe simple act of walking is a great victory. Student Government is sponsoring their annual Dance Marathon for Muscular Dystrophy as part of Notre Dame's effort to help the Muscular Dystrophy drive in the South Bend community. 
Thus far only six couples have registered to go the 48 hours for MD and for the $300 to be awarded to the couple with the most stamina and the most pledge money. But you don't have to be a contestant to participate. You can make 
daanesbury 
a pledge with one of the competing couples. Or you can lend your support simply by showing up in LaFortune Ballroom anytime between 4 p.m. Friday and 4 p.m. Sunday. There you can make a donation at the door and join in the entertainment t(} be provided by three live bands and local disc jockeys. 
Dance Marathon Coordintors Jim Roe and Dennis Etienne have worked to make the event both enjoyable and beneficial to the community and those in need. Come to LaFortune Ballroom this weekend; you might enjoy yourself while helping others at the same time. 
-Terry Keeney 

Just when some of us thought that capital punishment had been put to death, it seems the ugly monster is being revived. Peolple all over the country are supporting the reenactment of laws that would allow the death penalty to be handed down in certain cases. The renewed fervor with which people are supporting the death penalty disturbs and frightens me. I am uneasy because beneath all of the seemingly righteous excuses for favoring the death penalty I see men -mortal men -deciding who should live and who should not. I see legal bar­barism, with mercy and forgivenenss somehow lost in the shuffle. 
Punishment has been around for a long time. However, people view the purpose of punishment in different ways. This is where we must make a very important distinction. On the one hand there is punish­ment which is inflicted for the purpose of deterring further miscon-· duct. On the other hand there is punishment which is dealt because it is felt that the guiltypartymust pay his debt for his wrongdoing. In the former case it is clear that punishment can serve a very useful pur­pose; it can be a rehabilitative measure. But in the latter it is painfully obvious that revenge-an evening up of the score-is the sole end. This latter purpose for punishment is unreasonable and absurd, and it is beneath the dignity of a civilized society. The death penalty serves precisely this latter function of punishment. It permits men to vent their anger and frustration upon the guilty party. 
Apart from these considerations, however, is another issue which has considerable import. The question is, who can lay a legitimate claim to the awesome right to decide whether or not another human being may continue to live? Who, as a mortal, can decide another mortal's fate in this regard? No doubt, many of you are wondering how amurderer, for example, can claim the right to take someone's life. The fact is, he cannot do so. But do we not stoop to the level of the murderer oruselves if we proceed to 'give him a dose of his own medicine'? 
The old 'eye-for-an-eye' formula for criminal justice just does not hold water. There must be a more rational, more human way of dealing with those found guilty of serious crimes. Behind every such crime there is a human drama, the components of which just might indicate that the blame does not belong totally to the accused. What makes a man go out and brutally murder eight nurses? And what is it that prompts a man to kill a president? These are questions, the answers to which lie outside the scope of the legal profession. Yet some people,in the interest of expediency, are seeking to place the profound choice between life and death in the hands of this group, despite the fact that the legal profession lacks, as we all do, the right to deprive a hurr..an being of his life· 
Admittedly, death can be a very effective solution to problems like murder and treason; once the guilty person is dead, he can no longer commit such crimes. But death can also provide solutions to so called minority and poverty problems, and any other problems which stem in part from human existence .. But surely, we would never condescend to this level.. .Or would we? 

9Jarry lrudeau 

/1AN, I NEV&R. P/lEAMEP HE'O PRINT AU 1HAT 5Tt/FFl ITS ABSOU/T#Y 
/NCRE018t£/ 
] 
the observer 

Editor in Chief : Tom Dralle 
Managing Editor: Marlene Zloza 
·Editorial Editor: Ann McCarry 
News Editor: Terry Keeney 
Features Editor: Robert Bkaer 
Special Projects Editor: AI Rutherford 
St. Mary's Editor: Pattie Cooney Sports Editor: Greg Corgan Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy Contributi.lg editor: Fred Graver Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink  
STAFF BOX  
Morning Editor: AI Rutherford Assistant Editor: Dan Sanchez, Kulczyckl Day Editors: Pattie Cooney Layout: Dean Janke, Ginny Faust Copy Editors: Terry Keeney, McCarry, Gary Allietta  Mike Ann  

Typists: Mary Romer, Karen Hinks, Barb Haug, Tom Modalin, John Flannigan. Compugraphic: Howard Halle Picture Man: Albert D'Antonio Night Controller: Phil Orscheln Sports: Greg Corgan General Counsel: Tom Drape 

( 
/ 
Farley Fete Foiled 
EDitor: 
WE were happy at Notre Dame forone day thinking that we had come back to college, To our great disgust, we discovered that it took Macheca only one day to establish once again the fact that he is the czar and we are the peons. College living is only an illusion. High School will reign forever! 
The specific point to which we 
make reference is a Farley Hall 
party which was planned before 
vacationand was to have been held 
this Friday night in Stepan Center, 
When subjected to Macheca 's 
approval Wednesday morning, 
permission was denied. The 
residents of Farley were informed 
that they did not have sufficient 
time to plan their party in the 
propwr manner. 
The beer was ready, the band 
was ready, and Farley women 
were ready to control the operation 
of the event. Evidently, this is not 
proper planning. 
We will readily admit to anyone 
who asks us that we did not have 
engraved invitations printed, we 
had not ordered any floral 
rrangements, chauffeeurs had not 
been lined up, and it is true that we 
had overlooked hiring trumpeters 
to announe the names of the guests 
as they arrived. Last but not least, 
we had not checked Macheca's 
social calendar to assure the fact 
that he could be present at our 
affair. After all, what fun is any 
good, clean-cut college party 
without the presence of your Dean 
of Students? Absolutely un­
thinkable! We ask you, how many 
university students are subjected 
to this kind of treatment? 
There is no room for spontaneity 
on this campus, Eveyrhing has to 
be planned. For instance, one 
must plan his sexual life so it 
terminates by midnight. Ad 
DuLac rules and restrictions are 
number 1· in the mind of the ad­
ministration. One must not burn 
foreign substances in one's room, 
(one never knows what evil effects 
might befall the body). Keep all 
alcohol behind closed doors, (the 
image must be upheld). Attending 
classes is essential, (how else 
could one possibly learn?) 
Regimentation is becoming so all­
pervasive, perhaps Notre Dame 
should be recruiting as the "sister 
school" of West Point. 
A person is accepted at Notre 
Dame on the basis of his in­
tellectual and social maturity. 
Once under the shadow of the 
Golden Dome, however, it is in­
sisted upon that one surrenders 
maturity to in loco parentis, 
without a fight. 
At the risk of having our football 
tickets taken away, being sent 
home to mommy, or being forced 
off campus where our corruptive 
incluence cannot be felt, these two 
captives would like to suggest that 
it is time we were treated as 
adults. 
Ann Hawkins Mary Loberstein Witnesses: Bob Hellmuth DEnnis O'Brien 
..... 
Supreme Court of the United States 

Mexican 
decreed , in Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton, that the child inMessage the womb is a non-and therefore not entitled to constitutional 
Dear Editor: protection of his right to live. He therefore may be legally killed for We are writing to you at this time the convenience of others. This 
concerning room picks for the 1974-ruling is based on the same 75 academic year. We feel that it 
principle as the Dred Scott Case of was terribly unuust to include 1857, in which the Supreme Court 
overseas students in the lottery. held that the free descendants of We have several reasons for 
slaves could not be citizens and 
saying this: said that slaves were not even 
(1) Last year when we left Notre P._ersons. The abortion decisions of 
Dame we were assured of beds on 1973 are the Dred Scott Caseof the 
campus upon returning. We were Twentieth Century.told that it was the University The Notre Dame Center for Civil Policy that those students retur­Rights has an opportunity to ning from overseas programs render a public service by
would take the beds of those speaking on behalfof thecivil right 
·students who are currently 
to live of the innocent unborn planning to participate in the . children who are legally killed in 
·overseas programs. That was the 
; the United States in numbers in policy and we were informed of no . excess of one and one-half million a change. year. Unfortunately, the Center 
(2) All Notre Dame students are has failed to accept this op­
assured two years on the campus. portunity. The Center has spokenAs sophomores we have only had forcefully during the past year in one year. defense of various rights of racial 
(3) For those of us who did not minorities. But the right to live in make the cut-off, how are we the indispensable right and it supposed to look for apartments or overshadows all other civil rights. 
·housing ? A defense of lesser rights, however important they are in themselves,
Here we are in Mexico City with while ignoring the myriad some sort of idea as to each of our violations of the right to live, is a 
fates. Undoubtedly the students in venture in comparative triviality. Europe and Japan are in the same It invoves, too, an implicit sanction 
situation. Most of us know more or 
of abortion. A center established less where we stand but won't for the promotion of civil rights has know definitely until room picks a moral duty to address itself to the 
which are in late April. By that most important right of all. Its time it will certainly be much too silence in the face of the violations 
late to write to Notre Dame looking of that right implies assent to thosefor off-{!ampusing housing, as all violations. the apartments and rooms will be 
We are entitled to hope that thetaken. We would therefore like to Center for Civil Rights and theask you to change the policy and to University of Notre Dame itself assure every overseas student a will abandon their inexcusable 
room on campus. 
corporate neutrality on the right toThank you for your con­live and will speak in defense ofsideration. Our best to all at Notre that most essential civil right asDame. 
they have spoken in defense of . other important but lesser rights. Franc1s G. Sawoa They ought to do so, publicly and Paul Starkey strongly, at the dedication of the 
T. T. Murphy III Civil Rights Center. Sadly, James C. James C. Spurtz however, the Center and the Joanna K. Bartosik University are likely to say not a Sharon A. Garvey word on that occasion in defense of Fred Zellner the unborn children who are the Joe Corpora mosl mosl poor and defenseless of 
Randy Suttles all minorities. Nevertheless, it is 
Norb Schwartzs appropriate for all of us in the John. Ga~land University community to recall in Ern1e Ribera our minds and prayers the evil 
Thomas A. Courty decisions of January 22, 1973, and Gregory M. Ryan to resolve to do what we can to . John D Feuliu restore the recognition in the law 
~mda P. Schne!der of the God-given right to live. 
Michael R. Hastings 


A Faculty Reply 
to Apathy 

Accusation 
Dear Editor, 
In the March 6 Observer ap­peared a letter from a government major accusing government professors of apathy for not tur­ning out to see S.enator Percy when he was here recently. As one who teaches courses in American government and American political parties, and who did not see the Senator, I suppose I was one of the targets of the letter in a general way. 
While I cannot speak for my colleagues, I will say why I was not there: first, while I am in sym­pathy with many of the Senator's actions and stances for the past 7 years, I am not particularly im­pressed with the depth or originality of his contribution; and second, the facts of political life make it extremely unlikely that he will ever achieve his ambition of becoming, as the letter-writer puts it, "The most powerful man in the world." But the shortcomings of Senator Percy are not really the point. 
The point, I think, is the letter­writer's equation of not-seeing­Percy with apathy and his reference to people's "searching for leaders." (I am deliberately not mentioning the student's! name because I think he speaks for many other students.( I am far from apathetic, but my interest runs more to ·:issues than to per­sonalities. This perverted preoccupation with names and personalities, Percy-Nixon­Rockefeller-Kennedy-Jackson­Wallace, rather than problems and issues, has done much to divert the attention of the american people from the needs of reform. Let us stop "searching for leaders." and find those leaders inourselves, for investing our hopes in a man on a white horse is a moral cop-out. 
I think a better measure of 
apathy  or  commitment  is  the  
number  of  students  who  par­ 
ticipate  in  the  campus  Nader  

outfit, INPIRG, or who attend the upcoming Civil Rights Converence here. You won't meet a glamorous Presidential candidate that way, but you might learn a lot more about American politics and the future of our existence as a free people. If we government faculty members have failed to counter the American predilection for glamour over substance, then we have failed our students in ways far more serious than the student indicated. 
Yours truly, 
Howard Reiter Instructor in Government 

Speak Up! 
What is a Notre Dame student? We have all seen reports on the average N.D. student's economic racial, and religious background: but what about his Christian at­titude toward his fellow man? And I do not intend to exclude myself from this question. 
I am not hesitant to tell of my love for this school, or the hun­dreds of frienas I have made, the knowledge I have absorbed, nor the growth as a person that I believ.e I have made. The ene thing that disturbs me about this campus is the cockiness and self-{!oncern that exists in unbelievable mounts. 
There is too much selfishness festering here at Notre Dame Again I include myself and wond~r where this lack of Christian virtue stems from. 

How many students do you know who work at centers for the han­dicaped, homes for the elderly ~ospitais, or have planned career~ m some sort of social service? There are quite a few. Nevertheless, self-{!oncern runs rampant on this campus. Self­concern is needed for existence 
1 today, but when it reaches the ~xtent of disregard for a rumariife then something has to be done about this callous attitude. 
Our mai., concern at this time sho~ld be for the unborn child, who I thmk has gotten the shaft from the Supreme Court, pro­abortionists, and people like us. Most of us realize his right to life but because it coesn 't directly concern us, we have grown apathetic on this issue. Since the baby, en ventre sa mere, cannot speak for himself, we, who can, should. 
Keefe Montgomery 305 Stanford Hall 
I 


Lets Keep Shu! 
Dear Sir: 
Have read with surprise and dismay tht John Shumate is considering joining the pros. 
John Shumateis a Notre Dame man and_ a credit to the University; and not JUSt as n athlete. But as a man. The school needs· John Schumate! 
I urge you and the Observer to start a drive for "Let's keep Shu!" And involve all the students. There are many wys to display the Spirit of Notre Dame. This is an im­portant one. 
Yours very truly, 
The State of Michigan Branch of the Subway Alumni 
P .S. The Subway Alumni love Shu 

Kieran D Pillion 
Civi I Rights and 

a Right to Life 
Editor: 
On March 21st and 22nd the newly-established Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights will sponsor a conference and lecture program, culminating in the formal dedication of the Center for Civil Rights Reading Room with an address by former Supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg. 
The Civil Rights Center dedication is an appropriate oc­casion for the University com­munity to recall that the most important civil right is the right to live and the most important civil rights issue is abortion. The 

~---~-~---th:-obs-er~-er ---:ursd:,March21,1974 -----~------------------_--~­
' 




crew teani ·I 
--] 
~~~==========-~-==~·=---------------------------~--~
.. 

Vacation?Ask ND's 

' 
l ' 
) 
•
" 
\ 
' \ 
\ 


They practiced for eight hours a day. 
But their scenic route 
was the Potomac River 
in Washington D.C•• 
which included sights 
like the Kennedy and 

Lincoln Memorials. 
(Photos by Pau[Joyce) 

.' .. . ~ ~ . ,. 
·'i'lul~av:M..-rch 2i, 1974 ··:::.··the observer 
9 

France initiates inflation curbs 
By GERARD LOUGHRAN money market. "They do so because they are is not being practiced by any wage-co~trol policy, but he PARIS (UP!) -Against a "Other measures will be forced to by the reactionary other nation with a floating urged uruons to be moderate in background of strikes and considered in July after we backward policies of the currency," he said. France seeking increases from em­industrial unrest, the French have seen the impact of the government and management.'' introduced the system to ployers. government Wednesday an­current plan," Giscard D'Es­Giscard D'Estaing said Par­protect its mark-et from an Political sources said Giscard 
nounced a program aimed at taing said. liament will be asked to inflow of foreign capital but the D'Estaing originally proposed a halting the 18 per cent annual Premier Pierre Messmer said approve a number of value variations between the two softer version of Wednesday's inflation rate. the new measures were neces­added tax reductions when it sides of the market have been measures but President 
Declaring "1974 is not going sary in order not "to compro­reconvenes April 2. fractional lately. Georges Pompidou-a former to be an easy year," Finance mise either the present or He said wage-earners, who Giscard D'Estaing said the 'Rothschild banker-told him to Minister Valery Giscard D'Es­future of the country." were ordered to pay 43 per cent government will not establish a ."put more teeth". into t.hem. taing said the Cabinet approved of their income tax by Feb. 15,
Hundreds of striking bank
a plan calling for: would have to remit a further 
authentic folk art of th~ americas 
l
clerks marched through Paris
-A further squeeze on credit. 43 per cent by May 15-an 
4
with red banners Wednesday.
-Reduction of the "value accelerated sched,ule.
In other demands for higher
added" tax on some goods. Giscard D'Estaing said the 
wages strikers hit power 


tianguis
-Earlier payment of income government be tough with 
companies, factories and coal
tax. banks exceeding new loan 
thieves market sat.-sun.
mines and threatened subways
-Refusal of price increases limits of 12 per cent in April
and air flights.
in subway fares or postage and 13 per cent in May and 
stamps but granting a 7-lh per "Workers don't strike be­June. The aim is to contain the 
cent increase in railroad ticket cause they enjoy striking," growth in the money supply. 
WSND 
pric~. . Georges Marchais, Communist He said railroad freight and -Abolition of the two-tier Party secretary-general, said. passenger rates would go up by 
presents 
7-% per cent April 1. The state­operated railroad system had ~sked _ for a 12 per cent 

HOOSIER HYSTERIA 
!
Increase. "We hope the cancellation of the double market for the franc 
Suspect connected t0 
AN Indiana ritual 
will boost its stature on the

band festival fraud 
international market," 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -At least 25 high schools around the nation were hoaxed into making plans to send their marching bands to compete in a non­existent "President's All-Ameri­can Festival of Champions," police said Wednesday. 
Disclosure of the hoax Tues­day prompted a spate of phone calls to police from the deceived schools, giving offi­cials some leads toward placing a fraud charge against the 22­year old man who promoted it. 
Police would not reveal the suspect's name but said a "thorough investigation" was underway with assistance of other police departments and the Secret Service. They said the young man had twice previously been involved in similar band festival promo­tions that never occurred, but on a much smaller scale. 
This time, an elaborate brochure promoting the event for May 15-18 said President Nixon would award the first prize. The event was alleged to be sponsored by the "United States Parade Association," which police said was "a group of which there is no record we can find." 
There are alwa-ys a large 
number of springtime events in 
Washington, especially for high 
school students, and some 
legitimate events were being 
harried Wednesday by their 
scheduled participants as the 
result of confusion caused by 
the hoax. 
One such event, a music 
festival scheduled for May 9-21 
and sponsored by a Kalamazoo, 
Mich. travel agency, was 
deluged by telephone calls from 
some of the 1,500 participants, 
according to a firm spokesman. 
Police said they had received 
several telephone calls from 
other groups concerned that 
they would be confused with the 
phony event. But they had not 
yet what they were waiting for 
-a call from a school that had 
paid the promoter some money, 
so the fraud charge could be 
filed. 
"But we did hear from about 
25 schools that had planned to 
come," said Sgt. William F. McGill. He said among them were schoools in Leominster, Mass., Somerset, N.J., Oberlin,
" 1 · W
0 . and severa m est Virginia and Pennsylvania.
"In some of these cas~ they
. t u· ki 
money Giscard D'Estaing said, 
11-11 :30 Thursday Mar. 21
or collecting money from Maintaining a quotation for amerchants to help send kids to commercial franc and anotherWashington for an event they for the financial franc "led to didn't know doesn't exist," unnecessary complications andMcGill said. 

Pass the Jug. Pour theJug.Jug-a-lug. r---------------------------, J ug is the Great American Folk Wine. In Apple JUG GREAT AMERICAN POSTER I
12 E. Grand Ave. Room AA I 
or Strawberry Glen. Full of the crisp cold bite of Chicago. III. 60611. 1 fresh-picked country apples or sweet juicy 1 
strawberries. Please send me posters, 
1

for which I have enclosed $___ 1 
When you finish a jug ofJug, you can put a candle or daisies in it for a romantic meal. Or blow Send my poster to: : your favorite tune on it.
E h 11 -v-t G A · p i Name________P-;-.-ase-pr,....in<--------1 noug se . .LOU wan a reat mencan oster. 1 1 Send us just $1.00. Our Great American Poster .Address________________ I measures 24" x 26". Resplendent in full color. I 
-City State Zip I
Complete with painted-on frame. . 1
f Offer good until February 1st, 1975. Void if restriCted or for-
I you're decorating your room t'n Amert'can 1
bidden by law. Available only in U.S.A. Please allow 4 weeks for 
Gothic, it will fit right in. Get yours fast for a mere delivery. Poster Guarantee: Ifyou receive adamaged poster, sim-I 
$ b ply r t ·t t th b dd d ·u · 1 
. _l_.oo. (n_o,.s.ta_m._psplease) .~forewerunout. eurn! youwl recelveanewone . 
0 ea ovea ressan 

. -:N.er~ ,gmng. ou . se mg. coo es, .. ~.:.·..:.··-·--·..:.·_____;______________________-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-__:_-:-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-..::..=-::.:-=.:::""::.____J 
..... 
10 
the observer Thursday, March 21, 1974 

In underground publication 
Russian physicist supports Solzhenitsyn 
MOSCOW (UPI) -Dissident physicist Andrei D. Sakharov made public Wednesday a 184­page typed manuscript chroni­cling the events leading to the arrest and expulsion last month of author Alexander I. Solz­henitsyn.
Titled " Live Not by Lies," it is a chronological compilation of facts, excerpts from the Nobel Prize winner's new book "The Gulag Archipelago," and dozens of statements and letters from his detractors as well as supporters. Most of the material has been published before. . 
The manuscript covers the 
period August 1973, when the 
secret police first confiscated a 
copy of the book, through 
February, when Solzhenit~yn 
was arrested and sent mto 
exile. 
Its purpose is to try to insure Solzhenitsyn is neither forgotten in his homeland nor the facts behind his banishment later distorted. While there are few new facts revealed, the manus­cript represents the first known historical record of the events it describes. 
The manuscript is circulating as a samizdatk <underground) document. Sakharov told news­men there was no immediate plan to publish it in the West. 
'"Live Not by Lies' is for us a 
deeply significant document," 
Sakharov, developer of the 
Soviet H-bomb, and mathemati­
cian Igor Shafarevich said in a 
statement on the release of the 
manuscript. 
"Numerous voices, including those of people completely vulnerable to prosecution. show 
how far the hopes of decreasing 
the spiritual influence of 
Solzhenitsyn on the life of the 
country were illusory," the 
statement said. 
The manuscript opens with a quote from the "Gulag Ar­chipelago" that " the truth will drop as a waterfall... it cannot be avoided." 
It includes Solzhenitsyn 's explanation of how the KGB confiscation forced him to publish it in December and proceeds to reproduce the first several pages of the book, copies of which are also circulating here secretly. 
It details with lengthy ex­cerpts the Soviet and Western reaction to the book, the Communist newspaper cam­paign seeking to discredit Solzhenitsyn as a "traitor" and 


Selective Service conducts sixth lottery, of little concern for American youth 
By JAMES BUCKNER 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Selective Service conducted its sixth draft lottery Wednesday, but with the nation at peace and volunteers filling out military quotas, the results held little cause for the concern by American youth. 
The routine nature of the drawing was clear from the first when Deputy Direc_tor John D. Dewhurst said there was no present interest on the part of either .President Nixon or the Congress to "seek restoration of the induction authority" that expired July 1, 1973. The draft lottery drawn Wednesday showing the birth date first and then the draft number: 
Jan. 1-70; 2-134; 3-41; 4-77; 5­2; 6-349; 7-87; 8-215; 9-229; 1Q­173; 11-352; 12-58; 13~; 14~9; 15-109; 16-246; 17-101; 18-55; 19­208; 20-100; 21-44; 22-269; 23­355; 24-264; 25-362; 26-164; 27­323; 28-278; 29-184; 30-303; 31­168. 
Feb. 1-191; 2-116; 3-115; 4-341; 5-18; 6-128; 7-165; 8-56; 9-67; 10­244; 11-312; 12-185; 13-356; 14­235; 15-315; 16-3; 17-357; 18-159; 19-301; 20-76; 21-188; 22-133; 23­114; 24-90; 25-207; 26-242; 27­252; 28-1. 
Mar. 1-26; 2-53; 3-260; 4-292; 5-228; 6-7; 7-165; 8-56; 9-340; 10­344; 11-250; 12-139; 13-6; 14-42; 15-102; 16-103; 17-46; 18-261; 19­257; 20-136; 21-49; 22-267; 23­226; 24-8; 25-237; 26-205; 27-162; 28-35; 29-54; 30-15; 31-334. 
April 1-328; 2-152; 3-212;4-223; 5-23; 6-30-7-227; 8-200; 9-286; 10­306; 11-32; 12-1179; 13-256; 14­48; 15-213; 16-325; 17-330; 18­335; 19-282; 20-75; 21-283; 22­206; 23-141; 24-140; 25-170; 26­277; 27-125; 28-216; 29-365; 3G-65. 
May 1-214; 2-161; 3-343; 4-289; 5-348; 6-56; 7-331; 8-169; 9-198; 10-177; 11-12; 12-117; 13-111; 14­346; 15-338; 16-234; 17-106; 18­16; 19-45; 20-57; 21-232; 22-247; 23-299; 24-248; 25-314; 26-249; 27­112; 128~9; 29-14; 3Q-137; 31-74. 
June 1-253; 2-309; 3-180; 4-361; 
5-345; 6-121; 7-320; 8-207; 9-307; 
10-240; 11-27; 12-254; 13-313; 14­
129; 15-135; 16-130; 17-175; 18­
183; 19-263; 20-322; 21-203; 22­
11; 23-326; 24-239; 25-202; 26­
288; 27-5; 28-298; 29-230; 30-186. 
July 1-119; 2-192; 3-290; 4-318; 5-31; 6-195; 7-62; 8-225; 9-270; 10-354; 11-176; 12-86; 13-231; 14­243; 15-178; 16-122; 17-363; 18­351; 19-66; 20-280; 21-144; 22-25; 23-167; 24-13; 25-218; 26-140; 27­•39; 28-221; 29-304; 30-217; 31-339. 
! 




DINNER 
! 

SPECIALS 
5 to 8pm Mon. thru Sat. 

Aug. 1-79; 2-82; 3-360; 4-295; 5-148; 6-317; 7-131; 8-262; 9-33; 10-199; 11-81; 12~; 13-268;; 14­220; 15-127; 16-96; 17-80; 18-241; 19-94; 20-305; 21-294; 22-279; 23­329; 24-199; 25-327; 26-88; 27­265; 28-21; 29-154; 3Q-107; 31-64. 
Sept. 1-204; 2-28; 3-51; 4-151; 5-24; 6-337; 7-108; 8-271; 9-61; 10-302; 11-29; 12-40; 13-124; 14­222; 15-245; 16-281; 17-342; 18­120; 19-150; 20-233; 21-160; 22­275; 23-291; 24-4; 25-273; 26-123; 27-359; 28-347; 29-276; 30-110. 
Oct. 1-38; 2-143; 3-84; 4-193; 5­145; 6-311; 7-321; 8-132; 9-171; 10-358; 11-93; 12-259; 13-10; 14­364; 15-172; 16-52; 17-224; 18­258; 19-319; 20-324; 21-73; 22-9; 23-274; 24-272; 25-287; 26-69; 27­285; 28-142; 29-144; 30-149; 31­126. 
Nov. 1-47; 2-187; 3-158; 4-251; 5-63; 6-19; 7-353; 8-78; 9~; 1Q­263; 11-105; 12-118; 13-297; 14­

. 296; 15-68; 16-182; 17-59; 18-210; 19-293; 20-174; 21-36; 22-157; 23­98; 24-22; 25-17; 26-37; 27-316; 28-284; 29-95; 30-104. Dec. 1-115; 2-211; 3-71; 4-209; 5-43; 6-166; 7-138; 8-113; 9-300; 10-196; 11-350; 12-197; 13-201; 14­308; 15-146; 16-72; 17-34; 18-194; 19-97; 20-92; 21-255; 22-336; 23­91; 24-153; 25-163; 26-181; 27­238; 28-332; 29-310; 30-266; 31-50. 
Chicken  1.75  
Lasagna  1.75  
Spaghetti  1.75  
Chopped Sirloin  1.75  
Perch  1.75  
Rib Eye Steak  1.95  

All dinners include soup, salad and dressing, pasta, French fries, bread and butter. 
Also try our specialty... CHICKEN CACCIATORE 

$3.25 1003 Notre Dame Ave. 



'.. . 

·-·_:__.,._________________­
the writer's comments calling Agursky, Lydia Chukovskaya, on his fellow Soviets to stop Roy Medvedev, Vladimir Max­cooperating with "The Lie" on imov, Pavel Litvinov, Sak­which he said the state was harov, Shafarevich and others. based. "Solzhenitsyn is gone and 
It also includes comments by they are trying to drive out the such prominent dissidents as memory of him," it concludes. Vladimir Voinovich, Mikhail "It will not happen." 
~-----, 
SOCIAL COMMISSION presents 
CABARET 
7 & 10 Engineering Aud. Friday Mar. 22 
ADMISSION FREE I 
LOW-COST AFFINITY-GROUP FLIGHT TO ENGLAND ON REGULARLY SCHEDULED B.O.A.C. 747 
NEW YORK-LONDON-NEW YORK 
MID-JUNE DEPARTURE MID-AUGUST RETURN 
AVAILABLE TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF (AND THEIR IMMEDIATE FAMILIES) 
CONTACT THE TRAVEL BUREAU IN BADIN HALL (Tel. 7080) NOT LATER THAN APRIL 1 


RARE EARTH 
and special guest 
Rory Gallagher 

Sunday March 31 7:30pm 
Athletic and
NOTRE DAME 
Convocation Center 
Ticket Prices: Tickets on sale: Bleachers ............ $3.50 
NOTRE DAME,A. C. C. Mon-Sat 9 to 5­
Lower Arena ....... $4.50 
Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall 
Main Floor .......... $5.50 
St. Joseph Bank • and branches 
Loge ....................$5.50 
First Bank -Main office only
'Platform ..............$5.50 
Elkhart Truth 

.. ....·. \.·: ::·.-~.:..-~-~--.-...-.--·-· ·-·.' ....····-·········.......... 
·_·_·_·_··_·_________________________________________J 

Thursday, March 21, 1974 the observer 1 1 
Cosell, 'ShuI capture spotlight
: 
t Howard Cosell was the hit and more than one with a 26-3 was chosen the Most the highlight of the annual Notre basketball team or one with the Valuable_ Player for the 1973-74
t Dame basketball banquet held national football champion. Notre Fighting Irish. Shumate led 
~~ Tuesday night at the Athletic and Dame is one of the 10 best the. Irish in scoring average (24.2 
Convocation Center. universities in the world." ppg), rebounds (11.0 rbd), minutes 
Cosell opened light side And to the players he em­played (1,029) and field goal claiming that he alone knew the phasized one thing-to strive to be percentages(.627). The. latter future of John Shumate. With the number one. figure: earned him another trophy audience hushed in anticipation "Take out of this university the last night and is a he went on to say of John Shumate lessons of Digger and Ara." Notre DamE: record, breaking 
that the Big Shu would be taking Coach Phelps was rather solemn the mark he setlast season (.592). Don Meredith's place on Monday throughout the awards night no He scored 20 or more points 22 Night Football next season. But doubt still feeling the woes of last times this year and led the team in the brunt of Cosell's captivating week's loss to Michigan, but scoring 18 times and rebounding 16 talk centered on winning and what he promised a return times. His 1,334 career points it took to be a winner. He spoke of "Our pre-season goal was to get place the Elizabezh, N.J. junior 
Bill Toomey and Jackie Robinson an NCAA bid, and we had a taste of sixth on the all­and their accomplishments despite the No. 1 ranking," said Digger. time Notre. Dame. list. the handicaps they both endured, "The NCAA loss to Michigan was Gary Brokaw, a New Brunswick, and he noted that although winning a shock, of course, but you don't N.J., junior guard, was named wasn't everything you know what good is if you don't take the Most Improved Player must,without fail, strive to be a taste of the bad. We'll be back to Brokaw, who led the team in number one. number one ... don't let us down." scoring on five occasions, scored 
"Notre Dame to me is one of the 20 or molrespoints nine ·times. great universities of the world," he Shumate, named to both the AP He grabbed 124 rebounds, leading said, "a university that is much and UPI first All-America teams, the team t~ce in that category 
House passes Inini~num wage : Nixon's signature exp.ected 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The workers to $2 right a.way and where the differences wilf be House Wednesday passed legis­raising it to $2.10 in 1975 and worked out. The major differ­lation to raise the nation's $2.30 in 1976. ence is that the Senate bill minimum wage by stages to Rep. Albert H. Quie, R-Minn., raises the wage to $2.20 in 1975 $2.30 an hour. said afterward, "We could have instead of $2.10. 
The Senate has approved a this bill on the President's desk The White House, which similar bill. The administration so he could sign it by the end of vetoed similar legislation last favors a hike in the minimum March, and a new minimum year and was upheld by the hourly wage and enactment wage could go into effect on House, supported the bill, but into law by May 1 is likely. May 1st." asked the House to consider a 
The House voted 375 to 37 to The House-passed bill, which youth differential so that teen­approve the bill raising the differs slightly from the Senate agers could work for less. Both minimum wage for most version, was sent to conference the Senate and House rejected 
that. The bill's major provisions 
cover nonagricultural workers.
Birds invade village; 
Farm workers will receive hourly pay boosts to $1.60 immediately with .20-cent in­


solutions considered 
creases annually the next three years and a final minimum 
GRACEHAM, Md.<UPI) "People have been using wage of $2.30 in 1978. Townsfolk gathered Wednesday their guns to keep birds off There are overtime exemp­to consider a plan to scare their own trees, lawns and tions affecting workers in away 10 million birds plaguing houses. That keeps them away seasonal jobs, the hotel, motel 
this rural village by using from the individual's own and restaurant businesses and firecrackers, electronic sound property, but the birds will just certain other occupations. In devices and non-lethal clay fly away and finally land in Mr. all, some 49 million workers in bombs. Emrich's pine trees." the United States are covered 
by minimum wage provisions.
According to a committee of 
Edgar Emrich is the owner of 
Rep. Robert D. Price, R-Tex.,
local, state and federal of­
the 60-acre pine forest where 
who argued against the bill,ficials, which devised the 
the birds began roosting sever­
said, "The labor force will paystrategy, the firecrackers would 
al months ago. In their daily 
<for passage of the bill)be strung among the birds' 
foraging in and around Grace­
through more unemploymentroosting trees, the electronic 
ham, the birds have thrown 
and more taxes."
devices would broadcast bird 
scares into pets and livestock 
.He said passage of the billdistress calls and the bombs 
and ripped open farmers seed 
meant "more inflation, higherwould be detonated overhead. 
bags. Farmers in the town are 
prices, more unemployment,If the plan wins the townspeo­
worried that the birds will
ple's approval, the offensive more taxes and very little real
make short work of any seeds 
increase in personal spendablewould begin Thursday night 
put out for spring planting. 
income."
after the birds return to their 
roosts in the evening. There is also growing concern Rep. Ray J. Madden, D-lnd., 
Many of Graceham 's 400 that the abundant bird manure argued passionately for the residents have taken to shoot­accumulating in the pine forest legislation, saying the United ing at the blackbirds, starlings m.'iy pose serious health ha­States is threatened with 
and grackles roosting in a zards. another depression because of nearby pine forest with rifles Another headache for Grace­the low wage scale of many and shotguns. But Paul Beale, ham, which is about seven Iworkers. 
spokesman for the Frederick miles from the ·Presidential Rep. Delbert L. Latta, R­County Health Department, retreat at Camp David, is an Ohio, sought unsuccessfully to said Wednesday they are influx of curiosity seekers, who have teen-agers and students wasting their time. crowd into the town in the exempted from the legislation 
"The shooting is not having evening to watch the huge 'on the grounds that employers any effect on the main group of flocks blacken the _sky as they will be less likely to hire them birds," Beale said.. return to their roosts. beeause of the higher wage. 
Hair Styling ~or Discriminating Men 
--Four expert barber/stylists 

--Complete line of RK hair products --New customers always welcome --All services by appt.--call now 


Uhe WitWjammer 
1637 Lincoln Way W. 232-6622 
including a personal high of 15 rebounds per contest. against South Carolina. He had I Freshman Adrian Dantley won the team high of 100 assists the Father Tom Brennan against West Virginia and finished free thow proficiency award. with a total of 104. He made .557 of The Washington, D.C., forward his field goals and .657 of his free was accurate on .826 of his throws and was voted to UPI's free throws and tied a third All-America team and given Notre Dame record by making 11 honorable mention on AP's. of 11 free throws against South 
Gary Novak was selected Carolina. He received the team's top defensive. player. honorable mention on both the AP The senior forward from LaSalle, and UPI All-American teams and Ill., was usually assigned to guard scored the: most points of any the opponent's top scorer and was Notre Damesplayer this season a major factor in Notre Dame's with 41 against West Virginia. 
·success this season{ He scored 7.2 
(continued on page 12)

points a gamE: ·and made six 

Friday 8:00 p.m. March 22, 197 4 
$3.00 Adults $2.00 Students 
Goodman Auditorium Bethel College Group Rates Available! Purchase tickets at Fine Arts Office 
For Information Call 259-8511 extext. 66 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES FOR SALE 
$65 to S95 per week -Part time: Just in from Santa Fe: Hand­Unlimited earning potential in made Indian Turquoise addressing envelopes at home. Jewelry. A wide selection of Companies pay top money for Bracelets, rings, earrings, that "personal touch. For necklaces, etc. All prices furtner information regarding reasonable, and of the highest opportunities with fhese quality. Drop in 10 Lyons or companies, send $2 to Phoenix call 7833. Advertising , P.O. Box 11707, Atalanta, Ga. 30305. Kass i27B headphones. Must 
sell. Dave 272-1619. Experienced typist will do typing. Themes, Manuscripts, PERSONALS Call 233-5332. 
Chubsy-Wubsy, Munchikin, MUST RENT IM­Casanova:, Panda Bear: Glad MEDIATELY: 2 BR home, to see you could read and River Park, April occupancy. write. 288-6146. Officers_ 
Experienced typist needs Barb, typing to do in own home. 259-Are you a Sophomore from 1366. South Bend? I gave you a ride 
in a '74 Honda on Michigan. GSU meeting 12 noon Friday Thurs. Feb_ 28 at 4:30. Call me March 22-127 Nieuwland at 272-0542. Science Hall . Agenda: Mike M. elections and revenue sharing. Granger. 
Driving East to Youngstown , The Moocher has struck again. Leanving Thurs. afternoon and Many thanks to my Osceola returning Monday. Want paisans, Bill and Ceil' and Mrs. riders. Call Rick at 233-3945. and Mr. H. 
The Wop. RIDES WANTED 
LOST AND FOUND 

Need ride to ST. Louis Mar. 22. Call 6804. Lost small silver ring with red 
star sapphire. Call 1804. Need ride to Bloomington Friday: Call Mark 7956. 
1-12 the observer Thiii'SUy, tMrch 21, 1f74 
~--~~~~~~------­




Irish nine shaky on Southern trip 
' 
by Pete McHugh offense. Clemens hit .296 and Irish miscues for three unearned greatly improved his starting runs. The Indians' Zack Wolmack 
The people were gracious,the prospects this season. hit a two-run -.homer for the only weather was beautiful, but un­Overall, Kline was philosophical real blow off sophomore. Mitch fortunately for the Notre Dame about the preseason action, "We Stolz who went the distance. baseball team the Southern had a good time and we learned a Illinois State 5--Notre Dame 0 
hospitality did not extend to the lot from the trip." The game-by­Mark Pittman was the victim
ball park as the Irish finished their game rundown: this time of the hard-hitting
spring preparation with a 3-7 Notre Dame6-LSU<N.0.) 5 Redbirds. The senior righthander record against Louisiana State completed the seven inning game
Pete Clemens supplied the
<New Orleans), Arkans;is State, (abbreviated for useof the field)
heroics in the opener with an op­
Tulane, and Illinois State last despW~ the nonsupport of his
posite field homerun in the tenth
weekin sunny New Orleans. 
teammates.

inning to give Notre Dame the
Against the powerful southern victory. Sophomore Bob Stratta Illinois State 4-Notre Dame 1squads and more than represen­
earned the win forcing the
tative Illinois State, the Irish Kevin Fanning suffered his first 
lapsed frequently into defensive Privateers into a double play inthe loss in yet another seven inningninth inning in relief of starter matchup. But Notre Dame's
errors and following two early 
Mark Pittman. Jim . Smith also 
as plate. Coach Jake Kline em­thesinfield turned in three 
victories slumped badly at the defense. began to stiffen 
homered and Tom Hansen had two phasized the sloppy fielding, RBI's for the Irish. double· plays. Junior MikesO'Neill "Defensively, we gave awayjust Notre Dame 3-LSU(N.O.) 2 (.353, 17 appearances-designated too many runs." LSU<N.O.)'s errors and the hitter) drove in the lone, Irish He cited the Notre Dame cat­clutch hitting of Gary Mayer gave run. ching, in particular, as less than the Irish another ten-inning win. Notre Dame &-Arkansas State. 3 auspicious. The -79-year-<Jld head Trailing2-1 with two out in the ninth 
Notre· Dame captured its third

coach shuffled Steve Simone, Gary inning, Notre Damemoved into extra-inning victory behindMayer, and eventually outfielder extra innings behind a Privateer the four-hit pitching of freshmanKen Schuster behind the plate to throwing error and a wild pitch. 
Jim Sholl. Sholl, in his varsity

battle passed balls and stolen Mayer singled home Smith from debut, was quite impressive,
bases. second for the winning run in the going the full nine inningsAnother problem defensively tenth. Kevin Fanning allowed only (scheduled seven inning game)was the loss of senior second­one earned run in a nine inning while forcing the Indians into 19baseman Pete Schmidt for the stint for the victory. 
groundouts. Losing 3-0 in the topfinal six games of the trip The LSU(N.O.) 2-Notre Dame 1 of the seventh, junior Mark Sch­standout from Plainfield, New mitz tripled in two runs andJersey, sustained a leg injury in a Despite the fine pitching of Coleman singled him home to send

Stratta,the Irish dropped their first 
rundown but should be ready for the game into extra stanzas.
one-run decision. Stratta in eight
the regular season. 
Smith drove the winning run

On the plus side for the Irish innings was touched for two home in the top of the ninth.
were the performances of seniors unearned runs (an infield hit, two 
Pat Coleman (3B) and Pete errors) and the loss. Tulane 8 -Notre Dame 7 Clemens (OF). Coleman batted a Arkansas State 6-Notre Dame 3 The Irish outhit the Green sparkling .361 to lead Notre In this seven-inning affair, Wav6 13-9 but five errors ac­
Dame's sometimes unoffensive Arkansas State took advantage of counted for five unearned runs to 
leers end season on sour note --tie Tech's Huskies 
by John Fi;;:i.<n faceoff circle past a screened Kronlolm played superbly llu.!ghton, Mich.--The Notre Mark Kronholm. throughout the contest as he made Dame· hockey season. which Notre Dame, however, came 43 saves to Warden's 31. The shot start• .i so optimistically in this back within one, and Williams totals, however,werenot indicative town on Michigan's Upper again made the play. This time the of the play. Notre Dame simply Peninsula last November, ended senior from Toronto skated down outplayed the WCHA champs, but 
rather traumatically at B: 19 of the the right side while linemate Eddie unfortunatley, they did not outluck third period when Michigan Tech's Bumbacco skated down the slot. them. John Jaschuk's shorthanded­With the Tech defenseman com­Michigan Tech and
Ice Chips:

breakaway goal ousted the mitting himself his way, Williams Minnesota advanced from the
threw a beautiful cross-ice pass to
Fighting Irish from further WCHA to the NCAA championship
WCHA playoff action. the waiting Bumbacco. 
round in Boston after posting final 

The goal gave the number-<Jne Williams threw a beautiful round victories over MichiganHuskie's a 2-2 tie for the evening, cross-ICe pass to the waiting State and Denver respectively.but more importantly, it gave Tech Bumbacco. Last year's All­
The Gophers of Minnesota weDt

back its two-goal advantage which American simply tipped the puck 
on to capture the NCAA cham

it had gained with a 4-2 victory the past Warden at 17:36 of the second. 
pionship and, as as result, tht

previous evening. The Irish had the opportunity to Gophers will meet the Canadiar.
The Irish, who finish 14-20-2, tie the series when Tech's Graham collegiate champs this weekend for 
didn't surrender easily, though. Lyle went off for boarding at 6:49 the North American title.
Twice the South Benders came of the final period. But the op­within a goal of tying the Huskies portunism in this pena1ty belonged Brian Walsh, Notre Dame's in this two-game, total-goal series. instead to Tech and its penalty­super freshman frotn Cam­
Each time, however, the Huskies killing duo of Jaschuk and Scott bridge,Mass., was recognized as answered a Notre Dame score with Jessee. Both skaters harassed the. the outstanding newcomer in the one of their own. , Irish, and when ND's Larry WCHA. DeLorenzi, who led the 
Notre Dame and Michigan Tech Israelson lost the puck at cen­team in scoring most of the season both skated cautiously for most of terice, Jaschuk skated in for ·what before surrendering it to Bum­the first period. The Irish were was to be the final goal of the bacco, copped second-team without right wing Ray DeLorenzi season against Notre Dame. honors. for the contest. DeLorenzi, a junior from Sault Ste. Marie, Ont., Final basketball stats came down with the flu and had a temperature of 102 degrees, and as 
FlllAl ,lOTRE IWIE t;AS •. t:10All STATISTICS 1973-7~
a result, Coach Lefty Smith held 
-~n26,LostTlHome 15--o, Pwlwt 11-3)
"Hawk" out of the game. Notre Dame came out of the PLAYER G Ftii-FGA PCT. FTM-FTA PCT. REB AVG. PF-FO A TP AVG. game's doldrums first at 17:32 of Shumate 29 ~4r--:-62T T4T-T~i6 .. ~ 319-IT.O ~5 56 703 24.2 Cant ley 26 189-339 I 33-161 .326 255 ').7 74-2 40 511 IB.J
the initial period when freshman -558 
~rokaw 28 201-)61 ·-557 ]6-109 .697 124 4.4 73-2 104 473 11. I
defenseman Jack Brownschildle Paterno 2~ .500 .717 99 59-3 IG 223
95-190 33-46 3.4 7-1 wristed a 10-footer from the slot .lovak 2) 97-Hl6 .522 16-39 .410 174 6.0 49 6& 210 7.2 Z!l -399 . 793 2.2 136 7.2
past Tech goaltender Jim Warden. Clay 69-223 23-29 61 47 201 
~1artin 27 32-6a .471 22-35 .623 )0 1.1 42 58 86 ).2
Tri-captain Ian Williams made the 18 12-15 18 5 2.7
Knight I!HB .474 .800 37 2.1 48 
play by stealing the puck in the Crotty 22 10-32 .313 18-25 .]20 33 1.5 19 11 38 1.7 Tech zone and fighting off some !Jrew 13 15-31 .4C4 4-7 .571 10 0.3 3 I H 2.C 
Kuzmicz 13 9-2G .321 11-16 .688 10 0.6 14 5 29 1.6
determined Huskie players to flip a 
Stevens 9 6-12 .500 o-1 .000 5 0.5 3 2 12 1.3 
pass in front. t'\ncie rson 10 3-9 -333 3-6 -500 ~) 0.7 I 2 9 0.9 The Huskies answered in the Schuckm.1n 13 3-6 .500 2-4 .500 7 0.5 4 1 ~ 0.6 second period after the Irish were Schmelzer 9. 4-13 .303 o-o .000 6 0.6 4 I u o.s 
.to Ibeck 2 2-5 .400 o-o .000 0 0.0 0 0 4 2.0
detected twice for tripping. With 
Varga 2 2-3 .666 0-0 .000 0 0.0 0 0 4 2.0 
Williams ( at 3:49 ) and Pat Hansen I 0-0 .000 0-0 .ooo 1 1.0 I 0 0 0.0 Novitzki (at 5:06) both off, feam IS2 
iotre-oar.,., 29 ~-1992 -.no 1i'91i-b":w-.7iT-T34T -li6.2 470-7-5li6R~
Graham Wise scored at 5:47, 73.0
l)nponents 29 933-2091 446 250-373 .670 1071 36.9 s1e-27 321 2116
0
slapping the puck from within the 


OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Fanning's title hopes end in second round 
State, a dark horse captured theby Hal Munger team titlew with Michigan, the Big Ten champ, following a closeHeavyweight Mike Fanning second.
extended his season won-loss record to 18-o before losing 12-8 to Brigham Young's Gary Peterson Howard Cosell in the NCAA finals held at Iowa State University March 14-16. It took Mike over six minutes to win guest of honor his first match against a Montana State wrestler. However, the big 
at banquet
man from ND flipped over his man, recorded pin number 11, and 
(~ntinued from page 11)
went on to win the match 6-o. Peterson then beat him in the Dwight Clay, a junior guard 
second~ from Pittsburgh, Pa., was chosen the outstanding playmaker. His The finish was not as high as 136 assists this season Fanning and Coach Pechek had are the highest _ i n 
hoped for but administrative H Notre .Dame ·history. Nicknamed 
tape almost deprived the Eastern thes"lce Man," Clay tossed in 25­Regional champion the op­fo<it jump shots with seconds to portunity to compete. He was not play in the Ohio State and UCLA sure of his fate till less than hours contests to save Irish -victories. 
before action began. Apparently He did the same· thing last season there was a conflict as to whether against Marquette and Pitt­or not Fanning had been entered sburgh. 
before the time deadline. As a Greg Schmelzer, a senior fromresult Mike ~ not have been Park R:dge, lll., was selectedproperly prepared. 
the BluesTeam player of the .year. The forward scored eight points Peterson, who beat Mike, lost his this season but was presentednext match by pin to the eventual the award for his outstanding help champion Jim Woods of Western in preparing the .regulars. 
lliinois in 46 seconds. Oklahoma ~ake things difficult for Notre ·Dame's Stratta. Tulane's Dave Hartman won the game with a solo blast in the bottom of the eighth. For the Irish, Hansen sparked a five run rallyin the sixth inning with a triple and Coleman went 3-5 with two doubles. 

Tulane 3-Notresname 0 The Green Wave .vas in fine style before· ~heir home fans engineering four double plays and limiting the Irish to five safeties . Pittman once again went the distance without of­fensive aid. 
Tulane 5--Notre Dame I 
The iuck of the Irish was not a factor even on St. Patrick's Day in Notre Dame's final appearance. Tulane's non-Gael Bob Martiny hit a grand slam homer to stymie Sholl's six-hit effort. Centerfielder Dick Nussbaum singled in the Irish run. 
The Irish open the regular season April 5 against Miami of Ohio at Cartier Field. Notre Damt. will play 37 games including 15 doubleheaders and ten Big Ten encounters. 






