OD The Inside 
Alcoholism ... page s Election Reaction ... page 4 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 43 Thursday, November.:f! 1974 
by Andy Praschak Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame community proved its l'lectoral power Tuesday in a crucial test f the massive campus registration drive 
held prior to this year's election. 
Most sources agree that votes from the Notre Dame campus, Portage Township number one, proved decisive in some of the local races. Slightly under 1000 students voted out of the 1800 registered, electing the Democrat in every race but one. Votes are still unofficial pending completion of the official canvass. 
Overwhelming Support for Kovach 

In the race for State Senator, District ·Ieven, Democratic candidate Robert 
·ovach received 83 percent of the Notre Jame vote, over his Republican opponent, 
illiam Bontrager. Kovach received 722 ·otes compared to 151 for Bontrager. 'hese figures are contrary to District-wide otals which show Kovach narrowly efeating his opponent with 53 percent of he vote. 
"I deeply appreciate the support from he Notre Dame students," commented Kovach after the election. Kovach, who ·upports lowering the drinking age, assage of the ERA and reduction of >enalties for first time marijuana law lffenders, promised to honor his campaign ·ommitments and maintain an open door 
policy to all Notre Dame students. 
Kovach attrbitued his victory at Notre Dame mainly to his stand on the age of majority and the endorsement he received from Pat McLaughlin, student body president. The percentage of votes Kovach received in this precinct was the largest given to one candidate in any race. It is also the largest majority he received in any precinct, including his own. 
U.S. Senate Race 

Birch Bayh, democratic candidate for 
U.S. Senate, received 58 percent of the campus vote with Richard Lugar, Rf'publican candidate receiving 42 per­cent. Don Lee of the American Party received well under one per cent of the total vote. 
Statewide, Bayh defeated Lugar by the narrow margin of 52 percent. Estimates of 
ND campus responds to elections 


Birch Bayh and John Brademas won their respective elections statewide as well as at N.D. 
the final tally show Bayh winning reelection by 40,000 votes. During this academic year, Lugar campaigned on campus twice while Bayh made only one appearance. 
Rich O'Connor, . campus campaign manager for Bayh, expressed disap­pointment at the number of students who turned out to vote. "We're pleased with the victory here," O'Connor said. "However, we were expecting to get 60 percent of the vote." 
O'Connor pointed out that Bayh spent no actual funds on the Notre Dame campus. "The campaign was carried out by a lot of volunteers with literature from the main headquarters," he said. 
On the other hand, O'Connor cited the fact that the Lugar campaign on campus is guilty of illegal campaign practices, concerning the spending of funds. Ac­cordcng to O'Connor, some Lugar campus advertising attributed to student organizations was actually paid for by the Lugar organization down state. 
Brademas defeats Black 
John Brademas, incumbent Democrat, received 68 percent of the Notre Dame vote in his bid for reelection to the U.S. House of Representatives in the Third District, defeating his Republican op­ponent, Virginia Black. Black, a South Bend school teacher who campaigned strongly on the anti-abortion issue 
· received 292 votes to Brademas's 628. In the entire Third District, Brademas received 64 percent or the vote or 175,616 to Black's 100,380. Brademas is now serving his eighth term as representative of the Third District of Indiana. Black com­mented Tuesday that she had done all she could in the cam'paign and spent the entire day baking oatmeal cookies. 
One Republican Victory 

Notre Dame joined in the effort to elect Robert DuComb, the sole Republican victor, to the position of State Represen­tative from the Ninth District. DuComb's campaign included a last minute deluge of the cainpus with leaflets expressing his support for the ERA and lowering of the drinking age. 
In the same race, where two candidates were elected, the only democratic can­didate defeated, Virginia Bauer, also failed to place in the top two at Notre 
Richard Bodine, Democrat in the same race, received the most votes of the four candidates, following his endorsement by Pat McGlaughlin. Bodine also expressed a desire to reduce the age of majority. 
Campus-wide, the totals in the State Representative race are as follows: Richard Bodine {D)-598; Robert DuComb <R>-462; Elizabeth Bauer (D)-371· Richard Lindsey {R)-326. ' 
Democrats Win State Posts 

In the four races for state offices Democrats were elected by the stat~ populous as well as Notre Dame. Larry Conrad, Democratic candidate for Secretary of State, defeated his Republican opponent, William Allen, with 61 percent of the Notre Dame vote. 
Notre Dame votes chose Mary Currie over Jean Merritt for State Auditor. Currie, the Democratic candidate received 68 percent of the vote. ' 
Jack New received 67 percent of the Notre Dame vote, defeating Randall Miller for State Treasurer. 
The position of Clerk went to Billie McCullough, who defeated Pat Yoho with 74 percent of the campus vote. 
County Sheriff Race 

In the race for County Sheriff, the Democrat was chosen by the country and by Notre Dame. Dean Bolerjack, a Notre Dame graduate, received 70 percent of the campus vote over his Republican op­ponent, Nester P. Stachowicz and an In­depe_ndent candidate, Harold Morgan, who received less than one percent. 
In the race for Prosecuting Attorney pitting two Notre Dame graduates William Voor defeated his Republica~ opponent Wilfred Mayette and carried his alma mater with 65 percent of the vote. 
Richard L. Larrison who vowed to "bring the government back to the pe~ple," defeated the Republican, Jack Ellis for the post of County Commissioner in the First District. 
Voting took place on Tuesday, from 6 
a.m. to 6 p.m. in the basement of LaFortune. Students voting after 11 a.m. were faced with a half hour wait in line to vote on one of the two voting machines supplied by the county. A request has been filed to have more machines available for the next election, as the long lines may have deterd some registered students from voting. · 
Senior Club holds grand opening 
by Norman F. Bower Staff Reporter 
Amid bow-tied, bell-ringing bartenders and comfortable cushions, the renovated Alumni­Senior Club opened the season with a guitar group and approximately 880 patrons. 
The club's first night was a success, accoriding to General Manager William "Butch" Smith. He said, "It's not wall-to-wall, and that's the way we would like it to be. It couldn't be a better crowd and I couldn't be happier." 
Dirersified Atmosphere 
The old senior bar is now the newly organized, directed and decorated Alumni-Senior Club of the University of Notre Dame. The cracked walls and beer-stained floors have been replaced by what was called the "diversified at­mosphere" of the new club by Senior Class Vice President Bob Spann. 

A number of eye-catching new features have been included in the renovation which are bound to surprise anyone who ever saw the old arrangement. New flooring, wall coverings, paintings, paneling, lighting and a music system help create an almost country club atmosphere. 
The three areas on the first floor include a room length bar, a billiards and dance room, and a game room with assorted pinball diversions. 
The upstairs, formerly known for its 'dirt-ball decor', has now been turned into two very different areas, a tavern and a coffeehouse room. The new carpeting on the stairway is a tip-off that some improvements have been made which provide a very subdued atmosphere. 

The tavern has tables and seating plus piped-in music. The bar in that room serves wine, dark beer and malt liquor with cheese and crackers. 
A new concept in student bars has been set up in the dimly lit coffeehouse room which features couches and floor cushions for the clientele to rest upon, while being entertained by student musicians every night. 
Happy Hours 
From now on there will be ac­tivity at the club four nights a week. On Monday and Thursday, the hours will be 5 p.m. to 2 a.m. Friday and Saturday will feature 
(Continued on page 6) Students celebrate the long-awaited Senior Club opening. 
Thursday, November 8, 1974
the observer 

warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -The NNEW Congress will have a number of families represented by more than a single member. Colorado's new Senator is Gary Hart, and his sister-in-law, Mrs. Martha Keys, will be a member of the Kansas Congressional delegation. 
DARMSTADT, Germany <UPI) -American soldiers in central Germany have been warned about "a dangerous mixture of heroin" that may have been responsible for the weekend deaths of two teenaged Gls, the U.S. Army said Wednesday. 
THE HAGUE <UPIJ -A Benedictine monk confessed Wednesday to smuggling two pistols to the four convicts who held 22 persons hostage in the takeover of Scheveningen prison in the Netherlands last week. 
HOUSTON <UPIJ -A Texas prosecutor said Wednesday the state would move quickly in its murder case against a father charged with mixing cyanide in trick-or-treat candy that killed his 8-year­old son. 
Ronald Clark O'Bryan, 30, an optician, was charged Tuesday with murdering his son by allegedly mixing cyanide granules in a candy-filled straw and placing it in his Halloween sack. 

an c:ampus taday 
9:00am-5:00pm---basketball ticket sales, for sophomores at ace ticket office In 2 floor 
2:45pm---address, john henske, president of olin corporations talks on "deconglomeratlon." rm. 122, hays-healy 
4:00pm---seminar, "collision cross section studies on selected transitions" by prof. edwin lassettre, rad. lab. conf. rm. 
7:30pm---hockey, notre dame vs. bowling green, ace 
7:30pm---seminar, "the day they stopped the air war: feb. 27, 1962" by robert kerby, lib. lounge 
8:00pm---recital, duo-plano and harpsichord recital by keyboard faculty of st. mary's college: little theatre, moreau hall 

Gilligan discusses defeat 
By LEE LEONARD 

COLUMBUS <UPI) -Gov. John J. Gilligan Wednesday said his election defeat by former Gov. James A. Rhodes was "a repudiation of me personally," adding he does not believe a recount will change the results. 
The governor held his over­flow news conference less than 12 hours after Rhodes passed him in the early-morning counting and went on to an ll,OOO-vote victory in the race for governor. 
Gilligan, appearing com­posed, all but c~nceded the election results, whtch could be changed by a re~ount after. ~e official canvass IS made wtthm the next three weeks. 
The governor said he would change very little about the campaign he waged except "maybe I would try to be less arrogant." 
"I-regard the election as a repudiati_on of me personally." 
Gilligan said he -sent Rhodes a telegram conceding that the preliminary vote showed the former GOP governor as the winner. 
lillligan refused to second­guess his campaign, based, he said, on his accomplishments in the areas of tax reform, mental health care, school support and environmental controls. 
The Observer Is publiShed dally 
during the college semester except 
vacations by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame -.c1 St. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $9 per 
semester ($16 per year) from The 
Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
465.56.
.._____________.. 

"I feel that the people in fact , ratified these programs as · shown by the vote for Demo­
cratic candidates for the House and Senate who ran on this . platform," the governor said. The governor said he has "no 
inclination" to ask for a recount unless it is shown that 
' there are large discrepancies in the election statistics. He said the probability of this is "absolutely negligible." 
Gilligan acknowledged that his" arrogance" might have played a part in his defeat but "you see standing before you today one of the least arrogant men in the human race." 


Phone 288-8488 for tlme!t & directions


1----------------­
·1 PRESENTING: ~. I ! the Thursday night special t
' 
I' 
. 
1 
f 
l 
f 
t 
t 
t 
12" pizza -$1.50 Pitcher Beer Nite 
Eat, drink, and be entertained by live 
music nightly (except Tuesday) AT 
VVHITE HOUSE INN 
Now Playing
............_........... :• Jacin Beekett·•:
~··••••••••••••• •••• 
f 2 8 3 9 N 5th 


II I ' 
I 

no , ~~ver ' 
rKJ 

c rge tt I 
t Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 683-9842 
I Take u.s. 31 ••, .... Nne•• tbeo no<lh •• h;ghwoy 5 3 mne.. 
I 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

The Student Union Cultural Arts Commission presents 
Midwest Blues 

Festival  
with and  Muddy Waters Big Walter Horton Fenton Robinson  

Saturday, November 9, 1974 

8:00 p.m. Stepan Center $3.00 at the door 


Thursday, November 8, 1974 
the observer 

Starts over Cllristmas meak 


CCUM schedules live-in urban study· class 
by Patrick T. Flynn Staff Reporter 

A one credit, 48 hour, "live-in" course is being offered by the Theology department over the semester break this January. The course, which is being offered in conjunction with the Student Activities office will send Notre Dame and St. Mary's students to centers of the Catholic Council on Urban Ministry <CCUM) in 11 American cities. 
The course was announced yesterday by the Student Activities office, who ask students interested in the course to contact them before this Friday. Student Ac­tivities will interview all students interssted in the course and select a maximum of 50. 
CCUM is a seven year-oldorganization focused on social ministry within the church, especially in the poverty and minority-group related activity.The group is international, but is membership is most extensively from American urban areas. 
Students enrolled in the course will arrange to spend two days at a CCUM center in one of the 11 cities, sometime between January 1 and January 11. The students will keep a journal before and during the two-day stay at the center, and turn in an evaluation of the center at the beginning of the spring semester. 
Students will be expected to pay for all travel expenses to and from the CCUM centers. 
The cities in which the CCUM course will be offered are: Baltimore, Washington, Pitt­sburgh, Cleveland, Boston, Chicago, Houston , Memphis, and Greeley <C"olorado)'. The course may also be offered in Portland and Milwaukee. Arrangements with these last two cities have not yet been finalized. 
"Each city center has one person who will 'connect' the students to the people working in the neigh­borhood, and also explain his own work in the neighborhood," said Prof. Jay Dolan of the History Department, wlio is assisting with the course. 
Dolan explained that the cities were chosen because of theype of work going on in each of the local communities. "The type of work each of the centers is engaged in varies from community organizing to locating housing to assisting senior citizens," Dolan said. 
"Thie idea behind the course is experiential learning," stated Fr. Tom Stella, director of Student Affairs. "The course will give students an opportunity to be in the middle of the traffic; to meet and live with the people serving and being served at a center of urban 
ministry." 
"The initiating idea for the program was the experiences of Cila <International Council for the Lay Apostolate) members working in summer projects with catholic social ministers," said Fr. Don 
McNeil, faculty adviser to CILA 
and author of the course. 
"It is my hope that through this 
course the same type of inter­
cultural experiences which CILA 
members have had on summer 
projects, can be made available to 
the university community at 
large," Me Neil said. 
CILA is a student volunteer­
service organization at Notre 
GREYHOUND 
Beginning this Friday, the non-stop Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago will depart at 5:40 pm. 
Two busses return at the 
normal times on Sunday. 
Call Tom Boyer, 272-1807, for 
information. 
Dame, which sends teams of Nov. 10, 1974. They will attend a 
students to work in impoverished lecture that evening, "It is not an 
areas of South America and the Option: A Mandate for Social 
United States duringthe summer. Change". Students taking te 
It provides services for the South course will meet with Jay Dolan of 
Bend community during the school the History Department for as 
year. short history of social action and 
. change in the United States. The 
Students wlll be select~~ ~or the students will also meet with Dolan 
course by Student Activities by when at the beginning of the Spring 
Independent Longley wins Maine 
preparation will be made Stella, who will in conjunction with Student Activities handle the interviews selecting students for the course, explained that the interviews would serve two pur­
poses. "We hope first to give-the student some expectation of what the course will entail." stated 
won the Florida Senate seat second bid against GOP Gov. against Republican Jack Eck­William Milliken who won 51 to 
erd by one percentage point. 48 per cent. 
American Party candidate John -New York Conservative Grady's 15 per cent vote kept candidate Barbara Keating took the outcome in doubt all the 16 per cent of the Senate vote 
way. 
with incumbent Republica~-In Michigan, Zoltan Feren­Sen. Jacob Javits gathering 45 
cy's Human Rights party took per cent to Democrat Ramseyonly 1 per cent but complicated Clark's 39 per cent. Democrat Sander M. Levin's 
J";;~:~.·;;;;;-;ards-,1
f20 Percent Off 
·, ,-·-····-·-····-·-@
Paperback books 
. ZIG-I.AO
Magazines Novelty items Paraphernalia 
Original paintings Shopping Center · . _ . :;. ..~ Art supplies Mini-mall Mishawaka 219-256-0111 
.~~~ 
JUNIOR aASS HAPPY HOUR AT KUBIAKS 
Friday, f\bvember 8 
3:30-6:30 P.M. 
Pitchers 1.50 
mcn'l hai• 
1tyl 
ng 
en's hair Stylin 






~n 8~ir Bt~Zin 

WHATEVER THE
• .,...t&.•ef.[]£:1
SS·86oo . ~, 

~· "\\s'-s

s\1 · 

· HAIR CARE FOR ME 
1 
_T_9WN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544: :Stella. "Secondly, we hope to help the person sort out his own goals and motives for wanting to take the course." 
Students interested in taking the course should call Fr. Tom Stella, office 7308, residence 8753. For further information Prof. Jay Dolan may be reached at 288-0211. 
WASHINGTON  <UPI)  - In­ 
dependent  James  Longley,  who  
made  political  history  by  

winning the governorship of Maine, was the most successful of a handful of independent and third party candidates in Tuesday's elections. 
Longley won a slim 40 per cent plurality over George Mitchell, the favored Democrat, with 37 per cent and three-time loser James Erwin, the Repub­lican, with 23 per cent. 
Longley, a 50-year-old insur­ance executive, promised he would run the state like a business and retain his political 

independence.  "The  hundreds  
which  turned  into  thousands  
which  turned  into  Longley's  

Legion is the real victory," he said. Elsewhere the independents were not so successful: -In the North Dakota Senate race, environmentalist James 
R. Jungroth's 3 per cent could have been the winning margin for either GOP Sen. Milton Young or former Democratic Gov. William Guy. With 98 per cent of the vote counted, Young had 49 per cent to Guy's 48 per cent. 
-Democrat Richard Stone 

When will I be able to advance register for my classes in the spring 
semester? 

Advanced registration for the spring semester 1974-75 begins on Thursday, November 14 and lasts through Thursday, November 21. 
Who is the Indiana State Senator that represents South Bend and Notre Dame down in Indianapolis? I would like to write to him giving him my support for the Equal Rights Amendment. 
The State DSenator that represents South Bend and Notre Dame is 
the Honorable Burnett C. Bauer. He can be reached by addressing 
your letters to: 
The Honorable Burnett C. Bauer 
Indiana Senate 
Statehouse Office 
Indianapolis, Indi~na 46204 

When will I be able to get an exam schedule so I can verivy myreservations to get home for the Christmas break? 
Exam schedules for the fall semester are now available in the Registrar's Office (room 2155) in the Administration Building. 
NOTE: Ombudsman Service is offering its services to the Notre Dame Community weekdays 9:30 to 5:00 and Monday through Thursday evenings 10:00 to midnight. "No problem is too big or too small for us to handle." 
Have a --BIG appetite? 
"\. s\'' . 

Azar·'s BIG BOY RESTAU 
52860 U.S. 31 North 
_TRY OUR COUNTRY FRIED Q-IO<EN (SP~ALS Cl'J TUESDAY AND THURSDA 
PhOne 272-rn20 for carry-out service 
the observer ·Thunday, November a, 1974 
Government profs react to recent elections 
by Fred Herbst Staff Reporter 
While there seemed to be little surprise in the widespread Democratic victory in Tuesday's elections, a survey of Notre Dame professors' opinions concerning the reasons for the Democratic win and the impact of the election varied. 
Professor of Government and International Studies Paul Bar­tholomew and Associate Professor of Government and International Studies Michael Francis said the Watergate Scandal was the major reason for the heavy Republican losses. 
Disagreement arose from Professor of History Matthew Fitzsimons and Professor of Government and International Studies Donald Kommers who achnowledged the influence of Watergate, but cited the economy as the major issue. 

Statir.g that he couldn't pinpoint the major issue of the wwection, Assistant Professor of Govern­ment Peter Moody Jr. noted that Watergate "created an at­mosphere that greatly influencedl, the election." 
1 All of the professors saw the \election as a judgment of the 'current Ford Administration. 
Francis said the election results show a "lack of faith" in the current administration by the public. 
Stating that the results could stem from a "resentment" of President Ford campaigning for various Republican candidates, :Bartholomew abserved that Tuesday's results reflect a lack of ·influence on the part of the president. 
f The amount of damage suffered by the Republican Party was also disagreed upon by the professors. 
"damage can be overestimated," said Kommers. 
"Normally the out party gains in a 
non-presidential election." Fitzsimmons added that the 
G.O.P. "is damaged, but don't see it turning over and dying." 
Admitting that he isn't one to predict, Bartholomew said the Republicans will win the 1976 Presidential race. 
Off~ring an opposing view, Franc1s stated that the G.O.P. "are in big trouble for 1976." 
The professors agreed that the length of time before the Republican Party returns to "full strength" depends on the ability of the Democratic Party to keep the public satisfied. 
For the G.O.P. to regain its lost strength, Bartholomew allowed that President Ford must put the blame for the nation's problems on the Democratic Congress. 
The formation of a strong Democratic Congress capable of overriding a presidential veto was viewed as unlikely by the professors. 
Historically the Democratic Party is known for dissension from within. The professors stated that this dissension will continue and 

Student leaders Ineet at· CCE 
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame Chapter of the 
International Student Leadership 
Institute, ISLI, will hold its annual 
conference this weekend in the 
Center for Continuing Education. 
The highlights of the conference 
will be a series of group workshops 
and speeches by Father Robert 
Griffin, University chaplain, and 
Professor John Broderick of the 
Law School. 
Eighty to eighty-five high school 
students will participate, ac­
cording to Tim Puntarelli, 
Chairman of the ND chapter. The 
meetings are scheduled for Friday 
night, all day Saturday and Sunday 
morning. 
The ISLI is an organization run 
for high school students in the 
United States and Canada. The 
workshops, which are organized by 
Notre Dame students, try to 
establish self-awareness in in­
dividuals. They also help the 
students understand the repon­
sibilities of a leadership position, 
explained Puntarelli. 
The ISLI was started at Notre 
Dame in 1966 by Father Thomas 
Chambers, C.S.C., rector of 
Morrissey. Since then, the 
organization has spread, and 
chapters have been set up on the 
campuses of Stonehill College in 
Massachusetts, Clarke College in 
Iowa and Notre Dame College in 
Vancouver, Canada. 
The Notre Dame chapter has 40 
members on campus. Besides 
sponsoring the conference, chapter 
representatives travel to high 


Nixon makes· slew recover 
By ROBE~TA GOOTMAN 
LONG BEACH, Calif. <UPI) 
-Former President Richard 
Nixon has pneumonia in a 
small area of the lung, it was 
disclosed today. 
A medical bulletin referred to 
the condition as "pneumonitis" 
but hospital spokesman Norm 
Nager said that was a synonum 
for pneumonia. 
Nixon's physician said, howe­
ver, that the fluid in the 61­
year-old Nixon's lungs was 
diminishing and that he is 
making "slow but gradual 
inprovement." 
prevent the formation of an ex­ceptionally strong Congress. 
Bartholomew noted that this dissension is a result of the failure of the party to produce a single leader. 
While none of the professors claimed to have voted a straight party ticket, they did give their political views. 
Francis voted "mostly Democratic" due to the fact that he feels "the Republicans are so bad, not because the Democratics are so good." 
Kommers "tended to vote Democratic, mainly on economic grounds but not always." 
Fitzsimmons primarily voted Democratic due to the strong impressions made on him by Franklin D. Roosevelt. Fitz­simmons said he has had these 
impressions confirmed since Roosevelt's time. 

Moody voted Democratic because his family always has. 
Only Bartholomew voted Republican. He did so since he feels the Republican fits his moderately conservative 

241 Dixiewav North 
1 mi. north of ND 
guitar 
I 

headqua<te"' ~ ' instruotlon 
f.E.ll.EtQ1b.in.Jrl.Jfo.r:...tltle...qJWt~m-1 
Sat & Sun: 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
1 
Cluube CLa,ha Bill 
."MODERN TIMES" 
Fri: 6:50, 9:30 Sat & Sun: 1:30, 4:10, 6:50, 9:30 Mon-Thurs: 8:00 Fri: 7:45, 9:45 
THE 






GREAT GAT/BY ~ 
(]()iler-tofte r=llx 
Twtn Theatres/ 1 OOCenter /M ishawaka/255-95 75 

schools throughout the country to conduct smaller sessions. 
Commenting on th ISLI, Pun­tarelli said, "It's an organization that leans toward student leadership and is brought about by task orientation. We try to develop self-awareness and a better self­perception in the students through positive reinforcement." 
As a •itish c01npany we'd like to explain our 810ax automatic turntable in plain En91ish. l-low the 810ax How the 810 ax protects records and provides convenient operation cartridge stylus assembly. in any desired mode. Tone arm descent is After touching a single leather­viscous-damped in weight button, the 8100X can automatic operation either play a stack of ""l-low the 810ax reproduces and also when usingrecorded music accurately. :...11111•• the manual cue and The BSR 8100X has a'ophisticated pause control, for gentle contact synchronous motor, spinning a heavy with record surface. Platter rubber ~~(~~:~~:y ,J7-lb platter for mat protects records accurate speed during play and cushions repeat it indefinitely until you stop it (regardless of discs during automatic · · · · ·. .. Manual operation voltage supply or drop Automatic spi uses a single button record load) and all-but-nonexistent uses umbrella-type susnt?l'l<lrm to start the motor, wow and flutter Anti-skating force without outboard balance arm. and the cue control to lower the may be adjusted for Stub spindle rotates with record to stylus o.ptimum pressure with prevent distortion of center hole e1ther con1cal or Stylus setdown adjustment prevents How the 810 ax operatesl]elliptical styli, so stylus stylus damage if dropped outside of quie~ emitting no sound sits perfectly centered entry range. Tracking pressure that can intrude on the music.in groove for precise stereo adjustable down to separation 0 25 grams for The 8100X uses a unique sequential without audible newest lightweight cam drive mechanism It is a rigid distortion or cartridges for uneven groove minimum record ~••I • --.w wear. A strobe wear Stylus brush whisks dust off precision assembly that replaces thedisc is integrated into the platter stylus between plumber's nightmare of rotatingdesign and a variable speed control is plays Lock eccentric plates and interlocking gearsautomatically secures that other changers use. Unlike othert4:':'f···''"''''''''':':'o:':l::"''''''il>li::t:':::'::::.'' tone arm to prevent changers, there are no light metaldamage to stylus stampings that can go out of aligmentprovided should you want to vary from accidental and make a lot of noise, from beingfrom, and later return to, the normal movement Stylus carried, bumped, or just from use.speeds The tone arm will track as wear meter records accumulated low as 0 25 grams to make use of stylus use in hours. Knowing when For literature write to ~~~1finest light-weight, high-compliance to replace a BSR (USA) Ltd, cartridges for maximum fidelity and worn stylus Blauvelt, N.Y. 10913. dynamic range. protects your records. McDONALD  

Thursday, November a, 1974 
the observer 
5

INot a moral problem 
Alcoholism lS• a social disease 
and tends to enlarge the heart and mechanism. Some feel that guilt feelings. He loses interest in alcoholics. make it flabby, she noted. alcohol will make them less everything except alcohol. He "Alcoholics are unable to make "Alcoholism is a disease, not a Szucs considers alcoholism to be inhibited and use alcohol as a neglects food. He suffers from decisions. They do what they think 
moral problem," Sally Szucs, the "biggest drug problem we substitute for courage and hallucinations and frequently, others want them to," Phyllis Junior League volunteer for the have." She observed that alcohol maturity. malnutrition. The drinking explained. The inability to make Alcohol Information Center, ex-is considered a drug and is treated Szucs also outlined the symp-problem can lead to death, Szucs decisions leads to feelings of in-
plained at an alcoholism seminar as a drug because people can toms of alcoholism. noted. feriority, she added. at McCandless Tuesday night. become addicted to it. Szucs noted that a person can Treatment centers for the The seminar was the first of a 100 ·n· The early stage is characterized become an alcoholic even if he alcoholic in the South Bend-
series on alcoholism to be spon-According to Szucs, ml lon by a loss of control over drinking. only drinks beer or wine. Mishawaka area include: sored by the Saint Mary's Office of people in the United States drink. Szucs said that willpower is not "Alcoholism cannot be cured, it Alcoholics' Anonymous, a
10 1

Student Affairs and the Counseling Of these people, million, or out involved because the alcoholic has can only be arrested," Szucs fellowship of men and women who Center. of 10 persons, is an ~lcoho~lc. no control over his drinking. continued. She added that help each other to stay sober, 
The Alcohol Information Center Szucs feels that the mam pro em In this early stage, the alcoholic alcoholism can be arrested at any Memorial Hospital, which is a part of the Alcoholism Council in combating alcoholism is the develops an increased tolerance stage. provides a detoxification center and is located at 624 South Main. denial of a drinking problem. for drinking. He increases his According to Szucs, the only way and a two week series of lectures, The Alcoholism Council is made up Psychological, physical, and drinking to relieve depression. to get rid of alcohol is by Alanon, comprised mainly of
I f 11 lk f lif h environmental factors all con-Blackouts also occur. d I t" f
of peop e rom a wa so e w o tribute to alcoholism, Szucs said. "oxidation through the blood-spouses an re a Ives o 
are concerned about alcoholism. Blackouts do not mean "passing stream." A % ounce of alcohol alcoholics; The Information Center provides Contrary to the popular stereotype out," Szucs noted. During a takes one hour to be oxidized. Alatine, which provides group educational programs about of an alcoholic, Szucs emphasized blackout, the alcoholic can walk Phyllis, a recovered alcoholic, therapy for teens twelve to twenty
alcoholl.sm. that most alcoholics come from the and talk, but he does not years of age·,
ddl I was also present at the seminar.
Szucs defined alcoholism as an mi e c ass. remember what happened the She has been a social drinker since The Salvation Army, which
5

"illness that causes its victims to Szucs added that only percent night before, she observed. she was twenty years old. She takes care of "transient be dependent on alcohol." or less of the alcoholics are "skid The middle stage of alcoholism found transactional analysis to be alcoholics," people who do not "Alcoholism is a disease because row bums." is also referred to as the "alibi very helpful to her. She is a know where their homes are and 
"t · I t d t many other disor Szucs explained that the stage." The alcoholic makes · 1 do not have enough money to get
J IS re a e o -alcoholic uses alcohol to relax, to volunteer worker at Memona 
ders," Szucs continued. Alcohol excuses for the time he spends Hospital and gives lectures on the from one place to the next. 
damages brain cells and nerves relieve tensions as an esc~pe drinking. More and more of his progressive stages of alcoholism. The office of Student Affairs and time is spent drinking. He drinks In her work, Phyllis has noticed the Counseling Center will sponsorChrl.stllXIS seal drive startsalone and minimizes the amount of that women alcoholics are often other alcoholism seminars at Saint 
alcohol he has taken in, Szucs said. addicted to pills. "Women who are Mary's on November 13 in Guilt feelings and a decrease in addicted to pills often turn to LeMans, November 18 in Regina, tolerance levels characterize the alcohol because alcohol is easier to and November 21 in Holy Cross.
on Notre Dame campus 
final stages of alcoholism. obtain," Phyllis explained. All lectures start at 7:30p.m. 
The alcoholic feels guilty about At press time, the speakers from drinking; nevertheless, he drinks Phyllis added that passivity and the Alcoholism Council were not heavily to try to rid himself of his compliance is common among announced.
by Bill Brink Senior Night Editor 

Notre Dame students will • • receive sheets of Christmas seals • •in the mail within the next several • • weeks, according to Marilyn •• ••Sellers, Public Information • • Director of the American Lung • • Association of North Central In­•• diana. • 
The Christmas seal drive is a • •• yearly ritual spons_ored by the _h~ng association and aimed at ratsmg funds for education and research in the area of lung diseases. Notre 
HELP! •• • 

Dame contributions have been very helpful in the past, according to Sellers. : 
"lknow money's tight with • 
college students, but we just want •• DUNKIN' DONUTS JUST 
them to know we appreciate it, and what the money is doing," said 
• ••• • INTRODUCED BIG DUTCH
Sellers. She stated that the funds raised, •• PRETZELS AND WE NEED 
after taking care of expenses, are • funnelled into the two main areas 
•• AN AD FOR THE NOTRE DAME
of education and research. • "We're doing so much more now, • OBSERVER. THE WINNER 
we're out educating constantly," 
said Sellers. She pointed out that GETS A YEAR'S SUPPLY OF •
the association helps provide films 
•

and literature to schools in the BIG DUTCH PRETZELS.* ••• 
area, and even offers health education as a regular part of the • •••• • • 
South Bend fifth grade curriculum . SUBMIT ENTRIES TO THE •• •••• •It also sponsors a $1000 scholar­• DUNKIN' DONUTS SHOP AT 
ship for senior medical students in • •• • college, hoping to get them to • 529 MCKINLEY, NIISHAWAKA ••continue working in the field of • • lung diseases. • •• OR 602 LINCOLN WAY EAST, • The association channels a good • ••deal of the remaining funds into • •• SOIRH BEND, BY NOVEMBER • researching lung disease, con­•• •• 
tributing to several Indiana • 26,1974. THE WINNING • 
research foundations and helping to sponsor research seminars. The ••• ••
• AD SHOULD APPEAR IN THIS
research covers mainly the lung • 
diseases of emphezema, asthma, •• PAPER AT A LATER DATE• •• 
bronchitis and pneumonia. • • 
The association is the former Tuberculosis Leaugue, but has •• •• branched off to cover all lung • • diseases because of the increasing medical control of TB. It covers •••••
the four Northern Indiana counties • ••• ••• • 
of St. Joseph, Elkhart, Kosciusko ••and Marshall, with the main office located in South Bend. '• • 
There is a Board of Directors made up of volunteers, with •••••
representatives from all four ~ DUNKIN' I~ I 
Pretzel a

counties, and four salaried em­
ployees, including Sellers. :• DONUTS If Day for a Year •••• 


(Co"tinued from page 1) 


SeniorCl 
happy hours from 3 to 5 p.m. with 
specially priced drinks and 
free pretzels. On these nights the 
club will remain open until 2 a.m. 
The managers wish to maintain this as a primarily senior and ' alumni establishment, but guests will be permitted at the rate of one guest per club member. All guests will be charged 50 cents and must show appropriate 21 identification. 
There has been a changeover in the organization of what was formerly the "the senior bar." Last year it was run by a group of managers and under the direction of the Alumni Association. Now it is controlled by the senior class, and the Student Affairs Depart­ment in conjunction with the Alumni Association. 
Volunteer Organization and Labor 
This fall reorganization began in mid-September when the senior class officers took the initiative

a
.... and held a meeting with the Department of Student Affairs. At
~ 
that time, Spann was named

~ 
coordinator of the restoration

~ 
project. Ray Capp was made

I 
chairman of renovation. A group 

I 
of volunteers was organized to

I enact the plans drawn up after the meeting.
I 
An estimated 2000 man hours

I 
were given in the effort to 

I ~ 
rejuvinate the building. Capp, Burt Orr, Dan Swift, Taco Salazar, Steve Wymel and Augie Grace devoted a huge amount of time to the work, as did John Vannie, Bill Rienke, Tom Elli, Terry Auda,

• 
Lynn Larkin, Mary Kabbes and sell 1000.

t John Way. As work progressed on the ·•111111••••• building, the screening for management was begun. In mid­
100
October, Smith was designated manager with Jim Sweedyk his 

Center
assistant and Jim Shanahan as business manager. 
University Assitance 
A great amount of cooperation was shown by some University staff members also. Student Af­fairs administrators Robert Ackerman, John Macheca, Fr. 

' Terry Lally and Brother Paczesny were instrumental in the development. Ed Lyon of Main­tenance along with Bob Watkins and Jerry Sechowski of the Pur­chasing Department joined the 
Butch Smith, manager of the Senior Club, chats with distributors 
on opening night. 

The renovation was financed with the $1500 balance left from the previous year's bar savings. This money was used solely for sup­plies. All the work which did not absolutely require professional skills was performed by the volunteer students. 
In Spann's words, "The students work saved us a lot of money. They took time to do good work, and they've established a nice place." 
Grand Opening Nov. 13 

This "nice place" will have its grand opening next Wednesday, November 13. Those who wish to frequent the club may take the opportunity to purchase a $5 club card at the door which when presented with a senior ID will gain entrance for the owner. Before the opening, 350 cards were sold, but the management hopes to 
Senior activities such as the death marches will be carried on at the club because of its con­nection with the class officcers. Also, a number of specials are tenatively planned for the week 

' preceding the senior trip to the Southern Cal game. 
:~:?.!8!::::::::::::;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Night Editor: Mike Strlckroth Asst. Night Editor: Joseph A. Kanabrockl Layout: Teresa Susan Lane, Martha Fanning Day Editor: Gregg Bangs Copy Editor: Pat Hanifin, Jeanne Murphy, Ken Bradford Sports: Pete McHugh Compugraphic: Tim Murphy Night Controller: J R Typists: T. Modglin, J. Landis, C. Arrieh 
Mike, what happened to Wed­nesday night sunrises? 

CUSTOM & HAND MADE LEATHER GOODS & ACCESSORIES 
10% off on belts 
with this Ad 
students in the re-creation of the~=~!!!!!~~~~~~~=!~~~!==~
club 
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 
• 
• 
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 


•
•
•
• • 
•
• •
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 


Califor11ia 

•
•

Originals •
• 
The Original California Topless Waitress: In 1961, •••George "Could-you-come-a-little-closer" Roth •
•
(a near-sighted but talented customer), mistook •
•
the strings ofwaitress Julia Burke's blouse for large • strands of spaghetti, and speared them. As her blouse began to open, Julia walked away from the table, and into history_ After staring for several minutes, George's only comment was, ··oK, make that two glasses of milk:' 
Burgie Beer: Burgie is original California beer. The first great, light beer brewed in California, over 100 years ago. The original light, golden beer, brewed with a true Western taste. And if you don't believe 

•
me, well, just read our label. (Or better yet, try some.) 
Burgie Original California Beer 
•

VAN HEUSEN" • •• 
..• 
•
•





aJOl7 •• • 
fits .v.our •••• lifestyle... •• • 
• 

The body-fitting solid color 417 shirts by 
•

Van Heusen will add 
• dash to your lifestyle • on campus and off. ••Let the color of your •
•

choice and the • A light golden beer .."-'~7.' '!:;, m" superb tapered brtwed with a true Western taste. The ~ ......fit reflect your &reat, light California beer. ·:, ' personality in doing . '~'"-'-. t!f~.''' ~· ~I 
your own thing in . 'iifl.,:;;,•... 12 Fluid Ounces~-jJ 


your own way. ,.IAJRC.Jf. Rkl"\lN<i CO.. UJ<~--.w.U AT SAN FfWICISCOa ST ~J! 
r • ..,.-­
!fp·g.·. c:.(.:~>~-;.'::--'6 •1\tl-,.,f.' 

•
•
• 
Thursday, November 8, 1974 the observer 
7 

Ford views G.O.P. defeats optimistically 
By R. H. GROWALD 

WASHINGTON (UPI) President Ford sees the con­gressional elections as no defeat for himself nor his policies and asks the victorious Democrats to join him in beating inflation, the chief White House spokesman said Wednesday. 
"The President said to me he expects Congress to act respon­sibly; we will act responsibly; we will meet them half way," News Secretary Ron Nessen said. "He doesn't consider the economy to be a partison issue. 
"The President is holding out a hand and saying let's work together because this problem is too important to play politics." 
Nessen said there is "no gloom, no depression" in the White House. 
"It wasn't a very good day for Republicans and it wasn't a very good day for Republicans he campaigned for," Nessen said. He rejected any idea the Democratic tide was a rejection of the President or his policies although Ford campaigned for 47 candidates as Vice President and following his taking office Aug. 9, barnstormed across the nation for the GOP. 
"Nobody here feels yester­day's election was a vote of no confidence in the President's economic program," Nessen said. 
Although Ford called inflatioll the No. 1 campaign issue, Nessen said that "we wouldn't disagree that it was a 

New Congress waits 
anxiously 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -A younger, greener, more ener­getic and more liberal Congress stands waiting in the wings. When it takes power in January, the Senate may no longer find itself less conserva­tive than the House. 
Even the GOP felt the leftward swing of Tuesday's elections. Republicans who lost re-election bids or retired tended to be the older ones. In the new 94th Congress, the GOP House membership will be younger and more liberal than that which Gerald R. Ford used to lead. 
The elections tended to weed out mossbacks from both parties in the House. Nearly one member in four will be a new face, and once-dictatorial committee chairmen will have to share power --i)r risk losing it. 
Deatti, retirements, resigna­tions, losses in the primaries ­plus defeats of incumbents Tuesday -brought the number of new faces in Congress to about 100 in the House and at least 11 in the Senate. 
Despite all the changes and the Democratic landslide ill the House, it would be inacctarate to label the new Congress "veto-proof." 
Vetoes historically are over­ridden by coalitions which form and dissolve according to outside pressures Congress feels on specific issues. And there also is a tendency among Democrats, when they become numerous, to divide into war­ring factions. 
In addition, the new Congress was voted into office in large measure on the inflation issue, and new members know a "big spender" tag could hurt two years hence. 
Budget demands are so severe there will be little left for new spending, big or small, as congressmen face the problems of the '70s -food shortages, inflation, recession, the weight of petro-billions abroad, an1 -demands for institutional reform in Congress and throughout ~overnment. 
In the Senate, -Democrats won or were leading in races for 24 seats and Republicans won in 10 races. Democrats were 
1n WJ.ngs 
expected to hold a 62-38 advantage, a gain of four seats. 
In the House, Democrats won 49 seats previously held by the GOP while Republicans gained five former Democratic seats and were leading in another. The new House would be comprised of 292 Democrats and 143 Republicans. 
Many of the pressures to 
which Congress reacts come 
from the nation's statehouses. 
In the gubernatorial races, 27 
Democrats were elected while 
Republicans won six races and 
were leading in another. 
Combined with holdovers, 
Democrats would control 36 
goverships and Republicans 
would hold 13. In one state, 
Maine, an independent was 
elected governor. 

referendum on Watergate." 
Ford is pushing for the lame duck Congress to enact his program -including economic action and confirming Nelson 
A. Rockefeller as vice president -and Wednesday beginning work on a hold-the-line 1976 budget. 
Ford stayed up until 1:30 
a.m. monitoring results and telephoning congratulations to Republican survivors including governors-elect James Rhodes of Ohio and William Milliken of 
Faculty Board to 
accept bowl bid 
by Jim Donathen Staff Reporter 

The Faculty Board in Control of Athletics yesterday decided to accept a bowl bid if one is offered, announced Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, university executive vice president and chairman of the faculty group. "The faculty committee discussed the possibility of a bowl bid and decid~d that if one is forthcoming, we wtll be free to accept," said Joyce. 
Joyce said the Faculty Board had not received an official bowl bid. Their decision was a response to the football coaching staff and players who indicated the desire to accept a bowl bid. 
Official announcement of bowl invitations is not expected until Nov. 16, the date the major bowl committees have voluntarily agreed upon. Yet, the Faculty Board's decision paves the way for a rumored rematch with Alabama in the Orange Bowl 
: JUNIOR CLASS !• : SEM1-F~MAJ. : 
: Tickets on Sale This Week : : Student Union Ticket Office : : $5.00 per couple : 
•...........•................................: 

WANTED Need ride to Chicago Fri, Nov. Bth after 4 pm. CaII after 4, 4347. 
Ride wanted to Hartford, Con­necticut for Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. Call Paul, 8923. 
Need 1 student ticket for Pitt game. Call Chuck, 1877. 
Need a ride? Ask Nancy -she got her license over break. 
Need 2 GA Pitt tix. Call Michelle, 3665. 
Need 6 Pitt GA tix. Call Bob, 1059. 
Wan'ted: used upright piano for reasonable price. Call Mike, 1248. 
Riders needed to Chicago this weekend. Call Paul, 8854. 
Wanted: 4 good GA Pitt tickets. Will buy 4 together or pair. Call Terry, 3462. 
Need Pitt GA tix. Call Chuck, 206 Grace, 1592. 
Need ride to Detroit this weekend. Call Maggie, 4337, or Sue, 4704. 
Two need ride to Chicago Fri. Call Cathy, 5435. 
Full or part-time waiters. Will train. Perkins Pancake and Steak House. 2900 Cassopolis. One block south of Toll Road, Elkhart, Ind., exit 9. 
Desperately need 5 GA Pitt tickets. Call 234-6405. 
Waitresses -waiters -cooks needed part-time. New bar­restaurant. Fat Wally's. 2046 S. Bend. 277-0570. 
I need two GA Pitt tickets. Call Larry, 3376. 
Need 4-6 GA tix for Pitt. Call Dave, 1464. 
Wanted: driver to drive U-Haul truck round trip to Harrisburg, Pa., this weekend. Call S. B. Racquet Club and ask for Rick. 277-0711. 
Need 2 GA tix tor Pitt. Call Tom, 8398. 
Desperately need 2 or 3 Pitt GA tix. Call Ron 3543. 
NOTICES 
N:Y. Times daily and on Sunday at Pandora's Books, Washington Post on Sundays. 
Tune-ups by experienced mechanics, N.D. students. $10 plus parts. Call John, 1604, and Pete, 272-1279. 
These '75 calenders at Pandora's Books: Tolkein, Hesse, Sierra Club, Winnie the Pooh, Escher, Picasso, and more! 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN BUYING A NEW CAR? FORD, LINCOLN-MERCURY, PON­TIAC, OR A.M.C. AVAILABLE. CALL 272-4736 EVENINGS BETWEEN 7:00 AND 9:00 AND ASK FOR SLICK SAM'S SALES. SERIOUSLY, GOOD PRICES ON ALL MAKES. CALL NOW TO BEAT THE THANKSGIVING RUSH. 
Will do typing of any kind. Call 233­4484. 
Jennifer's -1919 W. Colfax. Fan­tastic sale. Tops, skirts, long and short dresses. 288-3355. 
Jennifer's -1919 W. Colfax. Men's shirts. California and India im­ports. Sale ends Sat. 
Typing experienced in term papers and dissertations. Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715. 
Chess Sets! I'm leaving for Mexico Nov. 11. I can bring you back a hand-crafted onyx chess set for a fraction of their retail price. Call Candy, 283-6922. 
Ski Aspen: lodging 7 days, 4 area lift tickets 6 days, breakfast-only $130. Last call Nov. 8 for $50.00 deposit. Call 6856 or 341 Farley. 
Come to the Hop! Walsh girls are having a dance Fri. in LaFortune. $.50 admission for all the drink, munchies, and dancing. So darn your socks, comb your locks, tor music that rocks! 
For information on the lowest­priced diamonds in the area, and personalized service, call a student who knows! Pat, 1149. 
FOR SALE 
Used Nikon equipment for sale. 2 Nikon F bodies, 1 motor drive, 5 lenses (300, 200, 135, 50, 35). Call Zenon after midnight at 233-2352 or 8003. 
For sale: 4 YES tickets. Call Chuck, 1877. 
Canon Model7. Huge50mm-F. I. 2 lens, built-in light meter, many other features. $110. Call Kline, 6706. 
Three pirahna fish and tank. S1SO complete. Real bargain. Phone 272-3973. 
Bose 901 spekaers, $450.00. Dual 1229 turntable, $175.00. All like new, call 255-5414. 
1974 -Scuba pro diving tank and boat. Call 8253. 
Will sell YES ticket. Good seat on the·floor. Call Gregg at 1612. 
I'll sell one YES ticket, located on the floor. Call Mark at 1612. 
FOR RENT 
Room, $40 week. Near rides. Privacy, kitchen. 233-1329. 
PERSONALS 
Dear World: 
I got a 675. I'm in, I'm in! Oink 
Anyone who knows Camille, Sue, Amy, Kathy, Ann, Mary Anne, Anabel, etc.-We're having a party -if you want to come be sure to call us 4904, 4988, 5165. 
To A: Thank you. I'm very appreciative of your thoughtfulness. Could we talk sometime? PLEASE. 
Friend 
Tom Roehl B. It's about time! Happy 20th-false. Signed, 306, 307 
Does anybody know if they are letting airmail into France? Must contact Avignon. 
God 
Happy Birthday "Beaner" Best wishes from Latch, (mil2, Wop, Dingbat. 
--1 
l I 
.... I 

1 
l 
l 
l 
l 
~ 

l 1 
l 
l 
I l l 
I 
I 
J 
-~ 
t l 
j 
I 
j 
I 
,l 
1 
Michigan plus Sen. Robert Dole of Kansas. 
Nessen said Mrs. Ford sat beside her husband but watched a television movie and not election results. 
In the outer offices of the White House Tuesday night if there was no gloom, there also was no joy. Wednesday Nessen bounded onto the platform in front of newsmen and opening his briefing with a smile and saying, "Well, it was only an election. It was not as if Ohio 
State beat Michigan." Nessen t said the President has been laughing and is in good humor. 
"The President has been in 
politics 26 years: this has been 
one of the bad years," he said. 
Nessen said Ford wants to 
work with the new Congress 
and feels the Congress wants to 
work with him. He said 
Congress as well as the 
President is now responsible for 
defeating inflation and other 
economic ills. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 

the observer Thursday, November 8, 1974 
... 




Irish look to 
by Bob Kissel 

The young Fighting Irish hockey team hosts the Falcons of Bowling Green tonight beginning a non-WCHA two game series. Both games, tonight and tommorrow, start at 7:30p.m. at the ACC, with ND hoping to improve their 1-3 record. 
Notre Dame has had some problems in their first four league contests against Wisconsin and Colorado College. "We made a few serious mental errors, like changing on the fly before the puck was deep in Colorado's zone or the defense carrying the puck too far without dumping it in " explained Coach Lefty Smith. "Colorado was there to capitalize on the mistakes." 
. In preparation for the series ag~inst the Falcons, Lefty has made some hneup changes. Pat Conroy wtll center for Don Jackson and Kevin 'Frankie' N_ugent; Brian. Walsh at center, Alex Pirus at right wing, and Clark Hamtlton at left wmg are reunited; Mark Olive has moved from right wing to center between AI Karsnia and a healthy Ray Johnson· and frosh Don Fairholm will sub for the injured Geoff Collier as the pivot' man for Jim Augustine and Tim Byers. 
On defense Coach Smith maintains the blueline duos of Les Larson and Roger Bot.u·que, Jack Brownschidle and Paul Clarke, while pairing Lew Curry and knee-injury recovered Dave Bossy. Dan Byers and Dick Howe may see action in Friday's game. 
In goal Smith will start Len Moher Thursday night and John Peterson Friday night. Both Moher and Peterson have played well so far this season, a position Lefty Smith can smile about. 
"Both goaltenders, Len <Moher) and John (Peterson) have come up with many big saves when they were tested on good sh~ts " remarked Smith."These two kids have kept all the games close, both here and in Madison." 
-
"~inning both games is very important to our young club," noted Smtth, "we have to go on out and get some momentum. Practice this week has been good and lively--the guys don't feel as if the season is over because of the Colorado series." 
Bowling G_reen is a very experienced club at all positions, forward, defense, and tn goal. Three of their four top scorers are back Bob Dobek (44 goals-42 assists), Doug Ross (31 goals-35 assists), and Ri~h Nagai (26 goals-35 assists). Both goaltenders return from last year (Mike Luit and AI Sarachman>with a year of experience under their belts. 
"The Falcons' level of hockey is as good a taste of competition as we'll have all year," commented Smith. "Bowling Green will be up for the series because it is their first of the year and also a couple of wins could help their chances of getting an NCAA tournament bid." 
Tuesday night Coach Smith spent a few hours in Chicago's In­ternational Amphitheatre watching with great delight one of ths former proteges--Larry Israelson. Israelson was called up to the WHA Van­couver Blazers from their Tulsa farm outfit ot go against the Cougars. 
Larry made the best of his chance with the big team, assisting on the tying goal and scoring the winning goal. 
Smith was pleased, to say the least, with Israelson's progress from the 
collegiate ranks to the pros. His exuberance from the Blazers' game was 
reflected in yesterday's energetic practice. 

If the attitude at Wednesday's practice was any indication of things to 
come, the Irish are golden.. And with a few goals, the long faces around 
the ACC ice arena should change considerably. 




OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Charles Regatta ends cre-w te<Dll season 
The women's crew, only in their
Midsemester break meant a 
second year of existence,
week of preparation for the foot­
highlighted their trip to the
ball team for Navy, but for the 
Regatta by finished 15th out of 42
Irish Crew, a trip to the Head of the 
crews. The women, led by captain
Charles Regatta at the Charles 
Marilyn Crimmins and Mary
River in Boston provided a good 
Fitzsimons, finished the race in
ending for the team's fall schedule. 
20:52.2, nipping Radcliffe in the
The Regatta, considered the 
final 100 yards. "The girls really 
largest in the world, had 2557 
made the whole trip worth it," said 
competitors in 570 boats, for the 
Graham. "It was a tremendous
race. The Irish had two boats 
race for them, and the entire group 
entered in the race, and the final 
has come a phenominally long way 
results indicated that both the 
in two short years. They've been
men's and women's boats did well 
dedicated and determined all fall,
against powers the likes of Har­
and their finish proved that.
vard, Navy, Penn and Yale. 
The Charles Regatta concluded
The men's boat, with Bill Lan­
the fall season for the Crew, but
duyt, Dave Robinson, Paul 
winter conditioning has already
McEvily, Ed Tagge and coxswain 
begun. "We've jus started our
Jose Santellano finished 27th out of 
conditioning this week, with a daily
the 43 men's teams, with a time of 
three-mile run and a workout with 
20 minutes, 23.4 seconds over the 
the weights," noted Graham. "We
three-mile Charles course. "We all 
feel that conditioning will make us
thought that we had rowed well," 
even better and more competitive
said Coach Clete Graham. "We 
in the spring meets, when we'll be
had enough practice this fall for 
meeting some really big
the regatta, and although we're 
powerhouses. With practice,
lighter than many of the crews we 
though, we should turn out all
were up against, 27th really wasn't 
right."
bad at all." 

Sophomore center Brian Walsh scores penalty shot against Colorado College in action last weekend. Walsh and his teammates hope for more of the same tonight against Bowling Green. 

Dillon stops Morrissey 6-0 in annual Inter hall thriller 
by John Higgins and when "Riep" found the middle then Lonsberg snuk over for the blocked up, he instinctively broke winning TD to give Sorin its third to the outside. Picking up a block win.
A freewheeling 63-yard run by 
Joe Riepenhoff and a successful b~ tight end Bob Mouch, In the opening game of the goalline stand in the closing Rtepenho~f raced untouched for evening's tripleheader, tail enders seconds were the main ingredients the game s only score. Alumni and St. Joe struggled to a which propelled perennial The Dillon offense moved the 0-0 deadlock in a rugged defensive champion Dillon to a thrilling 6-0 ball relatively well throughout the battle. Both teams missed win over previously-unbeaten evening reaching the Morrissey 15 medium-range field goal tries, Morrissey on the Wednesday once only to lose 14 yards on the Alumni's coming from the 2-yard before midsemester break. next two plays and end its most line on a bad angle in the final 
It was a typical meeting between sustained drive. The Big Red moments of the contest after a St. the rival halls -a hard-hitting defense, though, saved the game Joe punt was blocked seconds exciting game with a large for the defending league cham-earlier. Alumni's offense moved gathering of vocal spectators, and pions. _Led by_ defensive backs well at times, but fumbles kept a crucial contest for both teams Tom Fatver, Mtke Gleason, and them out of scoring range while St. 
Wayne Schaefer, Dillon had Joe was hampered by penaltieswith the outcome in doubt till the 
end. blunted the Morrissey attack up throughout. 
But this year's game, with the until the final minutes. The South Quad concludes its division title, as usual, on the line, Morrissey, however, took ad-regular season play this Sunday at added a surprising new feature to vantage of a Dillon fumble and Cartier Field. The key game of the the series and Interhall football in rallied for one last drive. Chewing day pits league-leading Dillon general. Morrissey, looking ahead up large hunks of yardage on the against its cross-courtyard rival to this matchup with its bitter rival ground, masterful quarterback Alumni at 2 p.m., with the Big Red in the last game of the year, had Jeff Burda led the Marauders 60 needing a win to secure a berth in carefully scouted Dillon yards to the one-foot line with four the league championship contest throughout the year and used this downs to hit paydirt. Here Birely against the North Quad titleist. data to gain an added advantage. used his one time out to hopefully Morrissey, having finished its 
Utilizing the university com­stop Morrissey's momentum and season, will nonetheless be wat­puter system, Morrissey to reorganize his defense, sending ching this matchup anxiously, for programmed the Dillon offense to in Pat Prendergast and Jim an Alumni upset would hand the arrive at statistics on what plays Hogerty to man the right side of division crown to the once-beaten 
would most likely be run and by the defensive line. Marauders. 
whom in certain situations and With deadly placekicker Brooks In other Sunday games, Howard from specific formations. This is a Humphreys waiting on the takes on Sorin at one o'clock, while practice that is widespread in sidelines to kick the game-winning Pangborn-Fisher and St. Joe college <including Notre Dame) extra point, Morrissey first tried square off at 3. The North Quad and professional football. the middle of the Dillon front wall will remain on the sidelines until 
From the beginning of the game, but fell just short. The Marauders Wednesday, November 13, when the Dillon players knew something then went three straight times at unbeaten Holy Cross hopes to wrap strange was happening. When the the newcomers, Prendergast and up the championship against offense lined up to run a play, the Hogerty, who turned back the powerful Stanford. A Stanford Morrissey defenders called out thrusts to keep the Dillon "D" victory would necessitate a playoff signals and shifted to meet the unscored on this year, and Dillon rematch between the two teams ensuing action. More often than took over as the clock ran out on later in the week to decide the not, the defense guessed right to Morrissey's chances for the title. division winner. hold the Big Red in check. Sorin, regarded by many as The current standings: 
As Dillon coach Mike Bireley possibly the most talented team in pointed out after the game, the league despite being out of the South however, such a situation can championship picture, reached 
backfire. "The computer can be back into the Dark Ages of football Dillon 4-0-1 beaten by a mistake, a broken and pulled out the old single wing Morrissey 5-1-0 play, or a change in formation and in its 6-o conquest of Howard in the Sorin 3-1-1 
strategy, " Bireley noted. "That's aftermath of the Dillon-Morrissey Pangborn 1-3-1 
affair. Alumni 1-3-1what happened on Riepenhoff's Howard 1-3-1run. I think this <using a com­Sorin, which accounted for the St. Joe 0-4-1
puter) is carrying the situation a only blemish on Dillon's record little too far, although it did help this year (a o-o tie) but lost 6-o to Morrissey tonight." Morrissey which knocked them out North 
Riepenhoff's TD dash was run of the race, moved effectively all from a double-slot formatiom out night on the running of Ken Holy Cross s-o-o of which Dillon had previously only Sitkowski and the pass-catching of Stanford 4-1-o 
thrown a screen pass, and by Mike Chute but could not dent the Flanner 3-2-o relying on the computer data, the end zone until the final 30 seconds. Grace 2-2-1 Morrissey defenders were an­On a last ditch scoring attempt, Keenan 2-3-o ticipating the screen. What ac­quarterback John Lonsberg hit Zahm 1-4-1 tually ensued was a fullback dive, Chute on a 40-yard bomb to the 2, Cavanaugh 0-5-o 



