----~~---~-­
OD The lnsP,de 
Touch dancing 
... p. 4 
SMC Regents meeting 
... p. 12 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Friday, September 20, 1974
Vol. IX, No. 17 
By Student Government 

On-campus retail outlet suggested for food co-op 
by Matt Yokom 
Staff Reporter 

Direct distribution of wholesale food from a permanent on-campus retail outlet was the recommendation of a Student Gi>vernment report. The report was sent yesterday to several Student Affairs members and representatives of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and Faculty Senate. 
The report, signed by Student Body President Pat McLaughlin and Off-Campus Com­missioners Paul McEvily and Stan Cardenas, listed four other alternatives and why they are not feasible. 
Over-the-counter buying at wholesale outlets was found unacceptable because they sell in bulk and are "built to deliver food, not to expose it to browsing customers," the report stated. Distribution from wholesalers to individuals by truck or to neighborhood pick-up points runs into legal difficulties. The alternative of distribution 
to a temporary on-campus pick-up point was also rejected for legal reasons and also because of the limitation of days and hours for pick-up. 
The report found that in the direct distribution at a permanent on-campus retail outlet, "We 

may be assuming a high initial cost, but it remains as the only alternative." It could be stocked andnopen all the time, and fill individual orders at wholesale prices.· The on-campus location would allow adequate attention to meeting all legal and health requirements." 
The report ended by stressing that a 
cooperative distribution "would benefit the total 
Notre Dame community, not just the students." 
Br. Just Paczesny, Vice President of Student 
Affairs, stated "Other options should be con­
sidered while not closing the door on any form of 
assistance." He asked if this distribution centers 
necessarily has to be on campus. 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, Director of Off-campus 
Students, believed that a cooperative was a fine 
idea but it will take time, perhaps two years. 
Tallarida said that much time needs to be 
taken in the investigation of many of the dif­
ferent angles. Among the problems are finding 
the primary capital, laws concerning 
cooperatives in Indiana, and refrigeration costs. 
Tallarida said, "We shouldn't kill the idea of 
other options while working for a co-op. In the 
meantime, let's do something to help off-campus 
students now." 
The report stated, however, that 

Local police begin cracking down on underage drinking 
by Bill Gonzenbach and Ellen Syburg Staff Reporters 

South Bend police are cracking down on underage drinking in area bars, as evidenced by last Wednesday night's raid on Louie's Restaurant in which nine Notre Dame and two St. Mary's students were arrested. 
Anew vice squad has been formed and the use of alcohol is one of its primary concerns, according to Dean of Students John Macheca who had been warned of .the development by City Safety Director Patrick Gallagher prior to the raid. 
City Councilman Roger Parent stated that the increased en­formcement of liquor laws "has probably resulted from the slight increase in complaints from residents of neighborhoods near the taverns." 
Local bar owners also expressed awareness of the police department's intent to strictly enforce liquor laws. "The police told us that they would be around, checking up on us for liquor violations," explained Joe Mell, manager of Corby's Bar. "They warned us to stay within the law," agreed Rick Kanser, owner of the Library. 
Parent has evidenced concern over the opening of two additional bars in the area. In response to the desires of his constituents, he has worked to prevent their opening. 

Parent explained that the residents' concern is due to the growing student population in the area, but that no real antagonism exists yet. "I would be willing to meet with Notre Dame representatives of the off-campus community to iron out any possible problems," the councilmanstated. 
Professor A.J. Quigley, president of the Northeast Neighborhood Council, pointed out that littered lawns and excessive noise are the 

resident's' main objections to .students residing and patronizing bars in that area. "Residents of the northeast neighborhood want taverns and customers that obey laws," he said. 
"Friday and Saturday nights the noise often keeps us awake until 3 a.m., and on Sunday morning we are faced with picking up as many as two bushels of paper cups from our front lawns," Quigley complained. "Neither I nor the neighbors are anti-student; we just ask that students cooperate as good citizens to help solve these problems," said the engineering professor.Concerning any action the University might take against those Notre Dame students arrested in the Louie's raid, Macheca stated that he had not yet investigated the matter or talked with any of the students involved. He speculated, however, that because the University alcohol rule deals with "use rather than proximity," it is unlikely that the 

· students, who were charged with frequenting a tavern as minors, would be disciplined any further. Macheca emphasized, however, the need for students to be aware of Indiana's drinking laws and the consequences entailed in their violation. 
Of Louies raid 
Arrested students 

question fairness 
by Mark Jahne 
Staff Reporter 
"If Louie's is a restaurant, why can't we go in?" asked Dave and Dennis, two Notre Dame freshmen who were among the eleven persons arrested at Louie's Restaurant Wednesday night. 
Both believe that their arrests were unwarranted. They claimed they had not drunk anything alcoholic, nor was any such beverage present on their table. Neither had been there more than five minutes when the police arrived. 
Dennis said, "There's no sign to say minors can't go in. What if someone was there only to buy a pizza?" 
The students were not told their rights as police claimed that procedure applies only to felonies, not misdemeanors. Dave complained, "They treat you like common criminals.'' 
Photographs and fingerprints were taken, plus voice recordings and a videotape of each person walking in a circle. 
Dave questioned the fairness of the raid. "What's the drinking area, and what's not?" Dennis asked, "Why didn't they check in the back, too?" Apparently underage students were drinking in back, but they were not checked by the arresting officers. 
Eight of the eleven arrested were held overnight. All were released after their rectors posted bond. The last student left the jail at 5:00 a.m. Thursday morning. 
Editor's note: The last names of the two students interviewed for this story have been withheld upon request. 

( 
l I 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida says it will take time before there can be a food co-op on campus. (Staff photo by Paul Joyce) 

IIIIHIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllll 
Words from the mouth of mld­dlellnebacker Greg Collins psych up the crowds at Dillon Hall's Beat Northwestern Pep Rally Thursday night. Unfortunately, the absence of band and cheerleaders caused the event to be less successful than those of previous years. See story page 3. (Staff photo by Paul Joyce) 
'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHIIIIIIIIII 
a firm commitment to a co-op on campus was necessary. It said "Last May both the members of the Student Affairs Committee of the board of Trustees and the president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association expressed their interest and their ability to assist in any way possible." 
"Now that time has come. Let us begin; and let us begin with a commitment in the form of a place. 
We can't afford to play 'pick and 
-find out why not' becau.~ it is so necessary and so important that we must take a solid step forward now." 
Tallarida proposed a temporary program until the ideal situation is reached. He said that if a group of off-campus students were to organize and select one person to go to the wholesaler, with an order for all, it would help cut costs. Tallarida added that this "ex­tended family" is a practical means to reducing food bills. 
McLaughlin reported that the Student Government is contacting other schools and cooperative association for furtherinsight into the matter. He stated, "You've got to expect a few mistakes but with advice from the Law and Business Schools, we can make a cooperative successful.'~ 

------------~--~~---------------------------------------~----­
·, 

. ,· (". \ ·' 
warld 

briefs 

RIO DE JANEIRO (UPI) -A Brazilian air force Buffalo transport 
aircraft crashed after takeoff Wednesday at a base near the 
Paraguayan border, killing two generals and 17 staff officers, the 
Air Force Ministry announced. 
One sergeant survived the crash. 

DENVER <UPI) -A Air Force sergeant armed with a rifle, a shotgun and a pistol locked himself in his barracks at Lowry Air Force Base for eight hours Wednesday and threatened to kill himself because of a broken marriage. 
an campus l:aday 
friday, september 20, 1974 

12:15 p.m.--lecture, "problems resulting from total separation of state & church: from jefferson to ford" by dr. hans verweyen,faculty lounge, mem. lib. 
.4:30 p.m.--colloquim, "diophantine equations In many variables" by prof. d.j. lewis spon. by math dept., 226 comp. center 
5 p.m.--evensong vespers, log chapel 

2 . .4 p.m.--workshop, "anatomy of the eucharlst"--john galler, s.j , followed by lit., moreau aud. 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, angela davis spon. by black studies dept. & academic council, stepan center 
8& 10 p.m.--film, the day of the jackal, eng. aud., $1 
saturday, september 21, 1974 

1:30 p.m.--football, notre dame vs northwestern, wndu-tv 
8& 10 p.m.--film, day of the jackal, eng. aud., $1 sunday, september 22, 1974 
1:30 p.m.--evensong vespers, log chapel 
6 p.m.--conversation with father hesburgh, wsbt-tv 

8 & 10 p.m.--film, hitchcock's "the 39 steps" spon. by cac, eng. aud. $1 
daily 

10 a.m. -5 p.m.--art exhibit, pre-columbian art, french art, con­temporary graphics, faculty & masterpieces from permanentcollection, nd art gallery 
12-9 p.m.--art exhibit, "neon ar..i drawlngs"--tom scarff, moreau 
gallery 

12 -9 p.m.--art exhibit, "recent photographs" --faye serio, photo
gallery 

12 -9 p.m.--art exhibit, "drawings and paintlngs"--sarlta levin,
little theater 

From Olile 






Holy Cross priest exiled 
by Tom O'Neil Staff Reporter 
In another attempt to suppress 
the "subversive activity" of the 
Holy Cross Order, the military 
government of Chile has exiled Fr. 
Robert L. Plasker, the Order's 
religious superior from Chile. 
Plasker, a 1953 graduate of Notre 
Dame, left Chile Tuesday evening 
and is expected to return to South 
Bend by Oct. 1. As religious 
QunpUS M.nistry tO hold Weekly 
mass and dinner r---------------...._.,. 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 
A "community experience" will 
highlight the weekend activities of 
the Campus Ministry on Friday 
evening beginning at 5 p.m. 
Mass and dinner for the entire Notre Dame-st. Mary's community will be served at the Bulla Shed, located across the street from Grace Tower, on the corner of Bulla Road and Eddie Street, This weekly program is open to all students, faculty and friends of the University and St. Mary's College, according to Fr. Bill Toohey, director of the Campus Ministry. , 
"I would like to emphasize that an invitation for all Campus Ministry activities is extend&! to all students from both schools-on campus, off-campus, graduate and transfer--as well as the faculty members and their families," Toohey stated. 
Continuation of the celebrity luncheon program at the Bulla Shed will also be a part of the coming Campus Ministry ac­tivities, according to Toohey, "The response by the students last year at these lunch-bull sessions was very encouraging. It really provides a great chance to sit down with Fr. Hesburgh or Coach Phelps and talk with them about anything you want," he explained. 
· Within 24 hours Plasker left the

superior in Chile, he was in charg~ of all Holy Cross schools, parishes, orphanages and other institutions, including a seminary where he served as an instructor. 
Control of the schools, however, was taken over by the government Iast year after a public airing of ideological differences. 
An official decree of expulsion 
was issued by the government against Plasker in January, charging him with anti-government activities, but it was suspended shortly afterwards for unknown reasons. A second decree was issued last Monday night without any charges or ac­cusations included. 
country. Officials of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross members have formally requested an ad­·ministrative review of the 
government order .. 
Plasker, 54, was born in Por­tland, Oregon and ordained a Holly Cross priest in 1957. He has served as religious superior in Chile since 1970. 
Plasker should not be confused with Fr. Martin Garate who was discussed in a Wed., Sept. 18, Observer article. Garate, a subordinate to Plasker while in Chile, was exiled in June and has been living at Notre Dame ever since. 
ALL NEW 
LIVE MUSIC-DAI\CING PIN BALL 1\AACHINES GREAT PIZZA , SO COME ON OO'AN TO 


GUISEPPES RESTAURANT 
7 1 3 E.l A SA L L E A V E 233-0951 




THE WINERY 

2426 LINCOLN WAY WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE 259-9046 
All the Finest European dleeses 

Gift Boxes of Oleeses Cl1d &·Fancy Foods Oriental Cooking Ingredients 10% Cheese and & Fancy Food Discount to Faculty and & Students French Bread and & Croissants New York dleese cake 
Greek Olives 

Friday, September 20, 1974 · the observer 
3 
II • ~ t ' 

Hesburgh calls lor new world perspective 
Human survival depends upon the development of a new world perspective based on in­terdependence of mankind,Fr. Theodore Hesburgh of Notre Dame said in a lecture prepared for delivery today in England. 
Fr. Hesburgh presented his view of the earth as a ''relatively small spacecraft with very finite life resources" in the annual Ditchley Lecture, sponsored by an English 
Poorly planned 
foundation. As an example of worldwide interdependence he cited the ramifications of the recent Arah-Israeli war, which " precipitated an oil embargo which, in turn, threatened the whole Atlantic Alliance, nearly ruined Japan's economic miracle, dislocated fuel prices to an extent that will involve massive shifts in world capital balances, created a fertilizer and food crisis worldwide 
Dillon pep rally fails 
Dillon Hall bungled their pep rally last night, according to Dillon President Elton Johnson. 
"Compared to Dillon rallies of the past, it was a failure," Johnson said. He noted the absence of the band and the cheerleaders con­tributed to the demise of the event. 
An advertisement in yesterday's Observer stated the N.D. Band and cheerleaders would appear at the 8 p.m .rally. "It was our fault the band didn't come," Johnson admitted. "Mr. O'Brien said they couldn't accept our invitation to appear at the rally because it would commit them to play at all other hall pep rallies." 
Johnson said an understanding was reached whereby the band would march by the pep rally during their evening practice session. The Observer ad­vertisement, however, ruined those plans, he added. 
Dillon Hall submitted the misleading advertisement bec~use "we forgot what Mr. O'Brien 
said," Johnson noted. Johnson added that he had ex­
~~!i;:rt~~:tif)=~e~~~: to ::~ 
Grabavoy said the cheerleaders failed to attend the rally because of 
a "foul-up in communications." 
According to Grabavoy, many of 
the cheerleaders did not find out 
about the pep rally until yesterday 
afternoon and the squad voted not 
to perform.
"The cheerleaders want to be at 
the pep rallies and be an integral 
part of campus spirit, but we have 
to be contacted in advance," she 
said. 

$120 million in trusts 
By CLAY F. RICHARDS 
WASHINGTON <UPD -Vice presidential nominee Nelson Rockefeller said Thursday he is worth approximately $182.5 million, including $20 million worth of art and land he will turn over to the public after his death. 
The former New York gover­nor, one of the country's richest men, said the bulk of his assets are in two trusts valued at a total of $120 million. He did not say so, but the trusts were believed left to him by his father, John D. Rockefeller Jr. 
The total figure was believed not to include a substantial amount that Rockefeller holds jointly with his brothers. 
Rockefeller said in a pre­pared statement he was releas­ing the total amount of his net worth because of "incomplete and therefore misleading data" that had been leaked to the press over the past two weeks. 
He said he would make a 
detailed financial statement 
public at the opening of his 
confirmation hearings before 
the Senate Rules Committee 
Monday. .
Roclt:efeller said that m addition to the trusts, he has other assets of $62.5 million ­nearlv twice the fUrore placed 

Amencan Medical Col­lege Admissions Profile, Inc., offers a com­puterized analysis to assist you in more effectively as­sessing your qualifications and more accurately di­recting your medical 
on those assets in news reports last week quoting his first statement submitted to two congressional committees. 
He said the $33 million reported earlier in the media "did not include the value of art and real estate I have already pledged to be given away for public use and enjoyment after my death." 
"This factor alone accounts for $20.5 million of the difference," the statement said. 
"The remainder is accounted for by uptated appraisals of art and real estate which were not available at the time of my initial submissions of data, plus some minor substantative chan­ges." 
school applications. Your MCAT scores, grade point average, college attended, state of residence, age and other criteria are used in a comparative analysis with the previously accepted class at the medical 
I • I •. • I • -t • • I • ,. • ,.. # ,
,_ 

with possible massive starvation in the underdeveloped world and consequent political and economic chaos among the Third World's billions of peoples." 
The most urgent problem is food, said Fr. Hesburgh, who is also head of the Overseas Development Council, a Washington-based provate organization which fosters the interests of undeveloped countries. "The food situation on this planet has never been more precarious," he commented, citing an increase in food demand of fifty per cent and a diminishing reserve of world food stocks. 
"We in the developed world are consuming almost a ton of food grains annually per person while the poorest barely subsist on 400 pounds a year," he noted, pointing out that the United States, Canada ba_nkrupted by the tripling of pnces of food and fuel could come from excess profits "if the world was truly seen as interdependent." 
Globally, he argued, the poor get poorer and the rich richer. He observed that only developed countries have the technology to exploit the newest source of natural resources and food-the seas which cover 70 per cent of the earth. He chided the stubborn nationalistic self-interest of America but noted that even the United States "did more than closer European nations in providing transportation and food to starving Mricans." 
L f rra wn  :5-=  
- 
A  typographical  error  5 in § 

yesterday's story about Angela = .Davis misrepresented future open §Sf 
rings false in a world that spends Eschewing the persive more than $200 billion for ar-pessimism of many observers of maments each year," he said. today's international seenen, Father Hesburgh also suggested Notre Dame's president emergency money to save'countries . enumerated , sometrends-ranging 
from religious ecumenism to development of agricultural hybrids--which gave hime a "Christian and cautious op­timism" about the future. 
The Ditchley Lecutre is spon­sored by the Ditchley Foundation, founded in England in 1958 to promote Anglo-American un­derstanding and enchance the two . nations•· relationship with the rest of the world. The lecture, given annuallly at the Foundation's headquarters, Ditchley Park near ·Oxford, is delivered "by an eminent '!international figure on some aspect of world affairs." 


and Australia are in the same !!JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDII5 relationship in terms of food to the· 5 5 -"Fourth World" as the oil ex-E (QME SEE 5 porting countries are regarding 5 5_ fu?.~ome will say there is not ~ ~ enough money to help, but this~=-ANG E LA D A vIs ~::= 
speaker policy. The statement i ep a n enter : 
should have read, "All three of-~ ficers agreed that future speaker 5 policy would not be affected by-the 5 present controversy." 5 
TON I G H T 
h ( 8 0 0 
§Everyone Is Invited To A ttendi 5 i 
5 A Reception Afterwards At = 
··­
5== 
_ 
5
5 
5 
p.M 55 
5 
5 
5 
5 

Rocky worth $182 million lrhe 
Black Cultural Arts Centerl 
I 2nd Floor LaFortune i 
In the earlier filing, Rock_ 511111111111111111111UIIIIIIIHIIIIHIII-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIii 
efeller reportedly listed $13 million in stocks, $12.5 million in art and $8 million in real estate. 
Rockefeller said he had received only the income during his lifetime from the two massive trusts, confirming re­ports that he cannot touch the principal under the terms set up by his father. 
Rockefeller also reportedly had filed a statement earlier showing that he had $400,0000 in cash on hand, $1 million in furnishings for various proper­ties, $50,000 in jewelry and $2 million in boats, cars, planes and other modes of transporta­tion. 
CAPRI LIQUOR STORE SUPER LOW BEER PRICES 
TRY US & COMPARE 1357 N. IRONWOOD 
..... 

MEDICAL SCHOOL APPLICANTS 
schools you select. 
Contact y_our pre­medical advisor for further information or write A.M.C.A.P., Inc., Box 8747, Boston, Mas­sachusetts 02114. 
'  
...  
<1  • •  4  '," ~. • -· l  '.'  

~ .. 

THE ROMA PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your Host Frank Anastasio 'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' LIVE 8 AN D S 0 N WEEK EN D S 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
SENIOR TRIP PEOPLE: 
Your $180 balance is due no later than this Friday, Sept. 20. You will forfeit your deposit if the money isn't paid by this Friday. You can send the money to 
Senior Oass of J975 
Box ll4 
Notre Dame 

or bring it to us from · 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. every day this week in the Nbrrissey Loan Fund (lafortunr's basement). Please bring or send to us the hotel room fa1n. 
Question s may be refe r red o: 
Greg Ericksen 283-36'87 Bob S p a n n 2 3 3 -6 2 4 7 Chris Fenn 283-6487 
J o e H e n d e r Io n g 234-1 6 7 3 
------------------------------------------~------------------­




lnPIRG 
by Pat Cuneo Staff Reporter 
The Indiana Public Interest Research Group (lnPIRG) outlined their goals for the coming year in an organizational meeting, Thursday evening at La Fortune Student Center. 
Chairman Joe Shicklich ex­plained that the improvement of the South Bend and campus community, along with establishing a good reputation for Notre Dame, are the primary goals in research projects. 
Students are encouraged to join the organization anytime during the semester. They will be able to 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 
Ballroom dancing arrives at Notre Dame beginning Monday, September 23, when Fran DeMarko, a professional dance instructor, gives lessons from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
Lessons will be held every Monday at the same time and place. "Training is continuous," said DeMarko. "There will always be a beginner's group." 
The two-dollar fee is payable 

to outline goals 
select a project of their own choice or take part in a large number of projects about which information is already available. 
There is a specific procedure by which students formulate their work. Small independent research groups will meet at their own convenience throughout the research period. However, they must submit their title for ap­proval to the InPIRG board of directors prior to starting and again with the finished product. Publication of the report would then take place and subsequent litigation would follow. 
The meeting was highlighted by six students who have already begun research. 

Andy Burner presented plans for the study of small claims courts. Burner pointed out that many cities around the country already have these courts but that South Bend does not. 
The court would be a great benefit to citizens, enabling them to receive quick settlement on merchandise or personal disagreements involving less that $500. It costs only six dollars to file, whereas in the current system, conflicts are sent to the Justice of the Peace court where it is mandatory to have a lawyer. 
In another area, especially important to students, a Grocery 
DeMarko brings 'touch dancing' s~"~ 
epidemic to Notre Dame campus . ~o¢ PRESENTS 
each nigH of the lessons. Com­plementdry lessons will be 
available for members of the footbali and basketball teams. DeMarko's professional career, 

·which began as early as 1949, has inciuded positions as a teacher, supervisor, interviewer and dance director at Arthur Murrays in Cleve~and. "I taught eight, sometimes ten hours per day,"said DeMarko. "Then for diversion I went out dancing!" 
In the 1960's she worked as a professional dance instructor at numerous resorts throughout the 



Ombudsman Director Bill Mclean socializes with campus VIPs at 
the reception held yesterday in LaFortune. (Staff photo by Paul 
Joyce) 

SUNSHINE PR TIONS PRESENTS 
AN EVENING OF SOUTHERN BOOGIE with 

LYNYRD SKYNYRD 
and special guest 
,HYDRA 
7:30 p.m. TUESDAY OCTOBER 1 M~RIS CIVIC AUDITORILM 
at North end of River Bend Plaza, Downtown South Bend Tickets: 
$5.00 Advance, $6.00 Day of Show 
AVAILABLE AT AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE,.STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE & BOOGIE RECORDS 
c?untry. Ballroor~ rlancing was given a new ~arne m those years: 
"touch dancmg."
After teaching at several high schools in St. Joseph County,DeMarko is now "up the ladder of fame," as she says, and is presently teaching at Notre Dame. "Touch dancing is now the name of the game," she remarked. "It's an epidemic.'· 
If not exacey an epidemic, ballroom dancing has become increasingly popular on college campuses across the country since 1973. An article appE:aring in the 
National Enquirer over the summer states: "A recent college survey reveals (that) students are flocking to dan<'e classes to learn the fox trot, lind), rock, waltz and cha-cha.'' 
"There are only two ways to dance," remarked De Marko, "either apart or together, and the popularity of the lessons tells us something." 
-. 




for school year 
Pricing survey is headed by Blaise Mercandante. On the first and third weeks of every month, students would· go out to a number of area grocery stores and price food and various consumer goods. 
A computer program would statistically validate the in­formation obtained and the results would be posted in the Observer and other news media. 
Lisa Molidor, Mark Clark, Pic Pettelle, and Shickich gave ad­ditional reports in the areas of sex discrimination, state food in­spection, EPA effluent discharge standards (pollution), and rights of mental patients. 
One of the most important breakthroughs of InPUiG oc­curred last year and concerned Indiana Bell. lnPIRG filed petition before the Public Service Com­mission of Indiana in February of 1973, trying to block the proposed $35 million rate increase and proposed doubling of pay telephone charges. The eventual PSCI decision granted Bell a $23 million increase and denied them the double pay phone charge. 

In concluding the meeting, Shickich stressed that there would be no pressure deadlines for the completion of the projects, yet they would have to be very thorough, well documented and virtually unassailable. 
~e i\)1,)
-'"!..:(0 f~ifBAl.l HIGHLIGHT ' 
~ \J\J 

S 73 monday 7:00pm sept. 23 washington hall FREE 
~-··;·s·Mc:· c0i=FEE.H0iiE;···· 
•
• 
!HAPPENING! 

• 
SHEILA RAFFERTY 


• 
: JAMIE MASSA 
•
• 
• TONIGHT 9 -1 BENEATH CAF. 
....................,......-.m 
.................. OF ~2 
FROM HERMAN RAUCHER'S NATIONAL BEST SELLER 
BILL HILSTROM 
NEIL UNGAR 
•
• 
ROOT BEER FLOATS :
•
ORDOESIT? : 
···:x_,:,·_~'''-·
... 
. . . . 
.~ 
y 
life there's a 

A Robert Mulligan/Richard A. Roth Production JENNIFER O'NEILL • GARY GRIMES • JERRY HOUSER • OLIVER CONANT 
Written by Produced by Directed by Music by HERMAN RAUCHER RICHARD A. ROTH ROBERT MULLIGAN MICHEL LEGRAND TECHNICOLOR• From Warner Bros.&IAWarner Communications Company SHOWINGS AT. c0 L FA X THE A T R E 

WEEKDAYS 6:00 7:45 9:30 

PRODUCER DIRECTS 
SAT.-SUN. 2:00 3:45 5:30 7·20 s0 u T H B END NO PASSES HONORED 
9:10 . 

----~------~---­
--~--------------------------~----------~--~--------------------------------~.-..--~~----~~--~ 
Friday, ·September 20, 1974· -the observer 
Nixon summoned by Jaworski 
charges of conspiracy andBy CHERYL ARVIDSON obstructing justice.
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Spe­Meanwhile, a Senate commit­
cial Prosecutor Leon Jaworski tee scheduled action on a
officially summoned private resolution by Democratic Lead­citizen Richard M. Nixon er Mike Mansfield to takeThursday to testify as a public custody of Nixon's tapesgovernment witness in the and ,documents and preventWatergate cover-up trial begin­the destruction of any Water­ning Oct. 1. 
gate tapes.
Jaworski's office said he issued a subpoena Wednesday night for the former President Nixon had previously been to appear in the trial of six of subpoenaed as a defense his former White House and re­witness by his former No. 2 election campaign aides on aide John Ehrlichman. But the 

When will tickets for the Gordon Lightfoot concert go on sale and is there a limit to the amount of tickets I can buy? 
Tickets for the Gordon Lightfoot concert will go on sale Wednesday, September 25 at 9:00 in the A.C.C. and 1:30 in the Student Union ticket office. There is a limit of 8 tickets that you can buy. I would like to add that all of the good seats are not at the A.C.C. ticket office. The·A.C.C. and Student Union equally share all the tickets for the good seats. So if you're too late to get a ticket for a seat in the front row at the A.C.C., you can go to the Student Union and be the tirsL one in line there. 
Do I have to mail a letter through the Federal Post Office to have it delivered on campus? 
You don't have to any more. The campus mail system is now in operation. You just put the correct address on the envelope and deposit it in one of the campus mail boxes located around the campus (no stamp is necessary). 
Is there any truth to the rumor that the Chicago Freestreet Theater will be putting on a performance on campus? 
Your information is partly correct, the Chicago Freestreet Theater will be putting on a performance here but not on ~e campus. The~e will be two performances on Saturday at the R1ver Bend Plaza m South Bend, at 12 noon and at 3:00p.m. 
I'm having trouble finding the Service Commission in LaFortune so 1 can pick up my Freshman Photo Directory. Can you give me instructions on how to get there. 
The Service Commission Office is in a very out-of-the-way place and it took me some time to find it also. It is in the northeastern part of the second floor in LaFortune. It is in the eastern end of the hall of the Student Government Office. It's entrance is hidden by an empty ply-wood magazine rack. After passing the magazine rack you enter into a room with several offices in it. The Service Commission is the office to the far left (it is the only office without a sign on the door saying what office it is). If you hav~ a~y further problems just ask the Student Government Recepbomst or the Ombudsman Service at the opposite end of the hall. 
NOTE: The Ombudsman Service has new hours. In addition to its regular hours of 9:30 to 5:00 it now offers its services to the Notre Dame and SMC students from 10:00 to 12:00 midnight. 

OF SOUTH BEND 
PRESENTS FOR YOUR ENTERTAINMENT & PLEASURE 
• •• ·-.. "' ..... , • ,fl .... ' •••• • • ,. ... " 1#-Jo .... t .
.,. .-.' .. ·-.... ., ,_,.,.., .
~ 

government's cross examina­that Nixon cannot be tried on It provided that all the White tion, in that case, would have criminal charges for any acts House documents and tapesbeen limited to subjects intro­committed during his term in compiled during the Nixon duced by the defense lawyer. office, he no longer has the years would become public
As a witness for both the legal right to refuse testimony property, and all would be defense and the prosecution, on the fifth amendment grounds made public except those Nixon can be questioned on any of self incrimination. protected by national security.
phase of the Watergate bur­The Mansfield resolution not Under the agreement between glary and cover-up. only would negate the agree­Nixon and the White House, the 
"He has been subpoenaed to ment negotiated on the Presi­former President would gettestify. We expect him to be a dential materials, but would custody of the material in three witness," a spokesman for the direct them to be made public. years, and would be allowed to prosecutor told reporters. It was only part of a growing destroy them. The agreement.
He did not discuss the current clamor in Congress for a full provided that the tapes would speculation that Nixon may report on Nixon's actions in the be destroyed should Nixon die invoke medical reasons to avoid Watergate scandal. sooner. testifying. 

TONIGHT!
Nixon is suffering from a 
Doors Open recurrence of phlebitis, a vein 7:00 inflammation complicated by blood clots in his left leg, and 
It was the Fall of '54
former White House physician 
Walter Tkach said after exam­
atime when laughing was easy.
ining him last week that he had 
recommended hospitalization. 
His daughter, Julie, flew to California Thursday for a visit amid new reports that Nixon would enter a hospital soon although he had strongly resisted such a move earlier. 
Court sources speculated that 
if he declined to testify because 
of ill health, District Judge 
John D. Sirica could send a 
court-appointed physician to 
make an independent judgment 
on whether the former Presi­
dent could stand the rigors of a 
court trial. 

laugh they did, until they crossed the ...
If Nixon were found to be fit but failed to appear, he could 
\ "Another Place, Another Time" composed and sung by Bobbie 
be cited for contempt. 
-Co ty U color by CFI
Additionally, since President 
M8C00 UO De an American International release 
Ford's absolute pardon means 
DEAR STUDENTS, 
YES, THE "NEW" TREND ... OR "CRAZE" ... IS SWEEPING THE COUNTRY. AND ALL THE MAJOR UNIVERSITIES ARE LEARNING "TOUCH DANCING" ........ THEY ARE NOW "TRIPPING THE LIGHT FANTASTIC ....... "TOGETHER......OR .... "DANCING TOGETHER AGAIN"! REALLY .... THERE ARE ONLY TWO WAYS TO DAN­CE .... EITHER TOGETHER ... OR.... APART! RIGHT? 
HOWEVER, YOU WILL BECOME MORE AND MORE AWARE, AS YOU PROGRESS OUT INTO THE BUSINESS AND SOCIAL WORLD, OF THE FACT THAT MANY PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY IN THE UPPER SOCIAL STRATA, HAVE ALWAYS "DANCED TOGETHER ". 
OF COURSE YOU KNOW OUR NEW "FIRST LADY" TAUGHT DANCING WHILE "CHARLES" WAS HER "STEADY". THEREFORE, MOST OF THE SOCIAL FUNC­TIONS IN THE WHITE HOUSE WILL INCLUDE DANCING. AND OUR LARGEST STUDIO, GROSS-WISE, OF THE 468 ARTHUR MURRAY EMPIRE, IS WASHINGTON, 
D.C. BECAUSE THE CONGRESSMEN, SENATORS, AND THEIR WIVES SOON REALIZE THAT THE VOGUE IS COCK-TAIL... DANCING ...... OR DINNER-DANCING. 
SO YOU LEARN NOW.... WHILE YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY. FRAN DEMARKO, YOUR TRAINER ... TRAINED THE TEACHERS FOR ARTHUR MURRAY ....CHICAGO FOR 
12 YEARS. CHICAGO IS THE SECOND LARGEST STUDIO IN THE NATION. SO SHE COMES TO NOTRE DAME .... HIGHLY QUALIFIED. . SHE DANCED PROFESSIONALLY .... ALSO.... FOR EIGHT YEARS. 
so 

NOW IS THE TIME TO LEARN TO DANCE AND AS YOU DANCE ....YOU MAY FIND ROMANCE IT'S EASY IT'S THRILLING IT'S REALLY GROOVY IN FACT ... EACH LESSON COSTS LESS THAN _THE PRICE OF A MOVIE 
$2 

EACH LESSON 
YOU PAY AS YOU GO 
WE'VE PLANNED IT THIS WAY 
SO YOU CAN. 'MUSTER THE DOUGH' 
YOU'LL LEARN 
THE FOX TROT ... THE WALTZ...AND 
ROCK N' ROLL 
WITH POLKA ... RHUMBA...AND CHA CHA AS 
YOUR... "GOAL" 
THE LESSONS WILL BE HELD EACH MON.... IT "SEVEN" 
WITH MORE EVENINGS ADDED ...IF YOU THINK IT IS "HEAVEN" 
YOUR TRAINER ... FRAN DEMARKO 
THE FINEST IN THE MIDWEST 
BUT THEN IT'S THE SAME OLD STORY 
'; 

... ·" 
~ ... # ......... 

f I' ',•,\ '\'• o t., I 





THE OBSERVER 
The gay situation: 

AN INDEPENDENT SIIIO!=NT NEWSPAPER 
BUSINESS: 283-7471
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
Tom Drape  
Editor-in-Chief  
Ann McCarry Editorial Editor  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  
Bob Zogas Business Man<:ger  Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob McManus Adverhslng Manager  


Co-op Need Real 
The food co-op needs to be. 
University administration cannot rack up the implementation of this first real breakthrough of assistance for the off-campus student. Those living off-campus have been neglected far too long. They now need the help of the University realistically. 
Last Monday, a plan for a food-cooperative to improve the off­campus living conditions was outlined by Pat McLaughlin, student body president. The same day John Macheca, dean of students, and Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director of off-campus housing, vowed to improve living conditions for off-campus students. 
In cooperation, the co-op is more than a possibility. It's real and only awaiting organization. 
Granted, there are a number of snags that would need work but the basic motive is there--to aid students, faculty and staff in reducing their grocery bill. It would be a direct form of assistance for off­campus students which is past due from the University. 
Hollow expressions of concern have been made to the off-campus student too often. And never has sympathy been sought or solicited. They are a part of Notre Dame and deserve nothing more or less than the on-campus student. 
Yet theirs has always been less. 
The co-op would offer lower food prices through bulk purchases. Savings are passed on to the customers by eliminating mark-ups in the prices for profit. 
As detailed in their report, which indicated an impressive amount of research, McLaughlin and his off-campus commissioners have considered all angles for implementation of the co-op, including licensing, prices and management. The major stumbling block is now a facility. 
If recent vows are sincere, then certainly some assistance should be available. Existing structures on campus do not immediately present a ready-made place. But a consideration of building priorities by the University might yield a starting point. The use of a pre-fab structure could also be investigated. 
The possibility of including the food co-op in the incomplete LaFortune renovation plans could be discussed as well. 
Contrary to Fr. Tallarida's premature observation of the un­feasibility of the co-op, it needs to be. And with a little help from our "friends," it's real. 
·-1·om Drape 
DOONESBURY 


the observer 
Night Editor: Bill 9rlnk Ass't Night Editor: Dean Janke Layout: Bob Brink, Katie Kerwin, 
Val Zurblls, Mary Reher, Dennis McNellis, Diana Wilson, Mary Janca 
Copy Reader: Jim Eder, Ken Bradford, Pat Hanifin Day Editor: Val Zurblis and Ken Girouard Editorials: Ken Girouard Features: J.R. Baker Sports: Greg Corgan 
Typists: Janet Carney, Anne Peelor, Barb Haug, Rick Huber, Michele Arrleh 
Compugraphic Operator: BoL Steinmetz Picture Screener: Albert D'Antonio All-night Ad Man: Bob Tracy Night Controller: Dave Rust 
Today, September 20, 1974, Is Senior Night Editor Bill Brink's 20th birthday. Happy Birthday, Willle-Boyl . , , \. , 

A realistic response 

fred graver­
"I played a lot of sports, you know. But as this thing kept building up inside of me. I started to measure every Uttle movement. I'd watch the way I threw a ball, the way I walked, I'd watch to see if my ass wigled a little." 
Outside my window tonight, there is a pep rally. Thousands of screaming faces, cheering and yelling; giving support to one another. 
Tonight somwhere, there is someone walking alone. Afraid , very paranoid, removed from his world be a simple fact which pervades his future existence. 
The situation at Notre Dame for gays is painfully lonely. There have been gay awareness groups on campus before, but they concentrated on student activism; on backing the administration other students, many times each other against the wall. 1t became somewhat self-destructive, for there was an essential element missing: the support of the spirit, of the inner person. 
Tonight, two people who are concerned about this situation told me about an organization they are planning. It is called, simply, "Gay Students of Notre Dame" and offers an alternative to the situation as it exists for homosexuals in the Notre Dame com­munity. 
The need to identify 
It is an organization which emphasizes support. Support for the spirit that has been battered and wounded, that has remained hidden and cut-()ff. A spirit that, despite its being all but murdered by denial, returns again and again asking to be recognized. 
The gay students at Notre Dame need a place, a situation, where they can find someone with whom they can identify. Gay students are desperately in need of a place where they can be themselves, apart from the pressures and tensions which derive from society's general attitude about homosexuality. 
"Gay students of Notre Dame" will try and offer that alternative 
It will emphasize supp6rt, identification, a degree of anonymity, and a separation from the spirit of activism that has been so self­destructive in previous gay groups. 
To offer a means of growth 
The organizers hope to offer a means of "growth with a sense of definity" for homosexuals , both male and femal~. 
. Stude.nts .~xpressi!lg an interest i~ the group are not "making a hfe ~boiCe, accordmg to the orgamzers. The group will be loose, flexible, adaptabletothe needs and desires of its members. 
There is only one goal they wish to achieve: an alternative to thP loneliness of being gay at Notre Dame. 
They are aware of the problems and pitfalls that await them. There will be people entering the group who will have expectations thatcannotrealistically be fulfilled, or would be destructive. The will always be the temptation to challenge openly the attituues of others at the University, but they will work to avoid this. ."We know _the answers they will give to our questions," one of the orgamzers· says," so why put our own existence on the line." 
Anonymity the key 
For now ,at least the organizers are keeping up an atmosphere of anonymity for themselves. Anonymity will be one of the key elements of the group, but for now it is even more important that the workings of the group remain quiet and played-down. It is a realistic response to the situation here. 
Another realistic response is their decision to meet off-campus. One of the orgnizers has been active in gay groups on-campus for the last two years, and feels that meeting here produces an at­mosphere of insecurity which intrudes on what is being attempted. 
They are opening the door of their shelter, despite the infringing, raging storm outside. They are opening the door so that those left outside can find some refuge, some relief and warmth from the relentless atmosphere and pressure. 
It won't besoeasy for those outside tu decide to enter. Though they will not be making a life choice, it will still takes courage to admit to the darkness, to admit t the felings that have been so long denied and repressed. 
Students wishing to contact the "Gay Students of Notre Dame" organizers may write to Ed or Bob at this address: 

Gay Students of Notre Dame  
P.O. BOx 1702  
South Bend, Ind.  
t! ~  0 (  0  ~  .. ·,'. ' \ f. t -\ '  . I ' ~ \  t '  l t .'  . ·'·" \ \ •  

Friday, September 20, 1974 the .obae.rv•r· 
•

Bicycles are a happy compromise 
by Fred Graver Contributing Editor 

The bicycle is one of man's greatest inv_entions. For one thing, it is very difficult to say anythmg bad about it. Unlike automobiles, which are infinitely more difficult to repair, kill people, and poison the air, bicycles are machines which promote health and well­
being. . . 
Bicycles are a happy compromtse between walking and driving. The only reason I can think of not to ride a bike somewhere is foul weather, and even then I may have second thoughts. (Riding in the rain can be as enjoyable as riding in good weather, it all d~pends on your attitude.)
"But " you may say, "bicycles are not as fast. What if I ha~e to get somewhere quickly?" Now, I'm not crazy enough to hand you the line about "why do you have to rush everywhere". I know how things can get sometimes. But, if you make the effort to consider all the places it would be nice to ride a bike to, you can come up with quite a few. This sort of thinking may even lead you to re-orient your values, set you straight and clean-living. 
Any flaw that you can pick out in a bicycle will most likely derive from your own biases and prejudice, (for example: it's too much work), or from environmental difficulties (it's snowing; there are too many cars). The advantagous use of the bicycle requires determination to make the best use of a totally func­tional machine. 
The last five years or so have witnessed an incredible resurgence of interest in the bicycle. It can only mean that people are beginning to regain their sanity abc?ut recreation and leisure time, perhaps about the bastes of transportation.
On one bicycle trip I took over the summer, I had lunch with an old black postman who, admiring my bike, told me how much he liked riding himself. This guy was sixty-four years ol~ and rode two or ~ree miles every weekend. "And 1f them damn gas prtces go up anymore, "he told me, "I'll be riding a hell of a lot more." 
He went on to say how much it disturbed him that 
people are so lazy· they seldom do any-thing without 
stepping on a gas pedal. No wonder they're so fat and 
worn down . .' he said. 
Hopefully, the rise in bicyclists indicates a rise in enthusiasm for getting out in the open again, for stepping away from the trappings of "progress". In some ways, deciding to take a trip on a bike, whether it's for a few miles or a few days, is taking a chance on the unknown. And that's the beauty of the whole trip. All you have to do is stay open to what's going on around. The isolation and awkward responsibility of possessing or being possessed by an automoble is gone, leaving you with freedom and a new involvement between you and the immediate environment. 
TOURING VS. DAY-BICYCLING . 
.. when considering two bicycle trips, there are two basic classifications. (This gets so ridiculously ob­vious after a while that soon you are going to realize just how simple bicycling is.) The first type is the day­trip. To the cycle purist, you are considered definitely "part-time" when you engage in these, but if you're-not up to the longer tour (either physically or mentally), then by All mean:;, _the day Trip is recommended. 
All you have to do to do one is to leave from and return 
to the same place in one day. (See, I told you this was 
simple.)
The second type is the touring or camping trip. Long 
distance traveling is for the purist, for the individual 
who shares some of the qualities of the hitch-hiker, 
with a bit more discipline.
Discipline seems to be the key here. In addition to 
decent equipment, a good bike, and a bit ?f ~on­
ditioning, it requires self-control. Nobody in therr rtght 
mind will go fifty or sixty miles on a bike in one day, so 
the thing to do is get yourself out of your right mind. 
Long-distance trips can lead to ecstasy or disgust. 
It's all in the element of the unknown. There may be a 
definite destination, a definite route, a. definite 
schedule for everything (in fact, it is recommended 
that a good deal of planning go into any trip), but noone can tell what is actually up ahead-on the road. Bicyclists are as vulnerable and open to the,wiles and whimsies of the road as any traveler can pessible be. Experience is varied. 

You can experience, in the course of one day on a trip, the intimidation of an Air Stream trailer trying to force you off the road (using the extended rear-view mirror as a lance), the terror of a howling farm dog headed right for your bare ankles, or the simple pleasure of stumbling on the grand opening of "Hank's Super Standard" (and what a party that was-I wob­bled for miles aft~.(. 
RIDING AND TOURING TIPS 
You have two things to contend with on this trip: your bicycle and your self. To keep the bike going requires only a simple bit of maintenance knowledge. To keep your self going-well, it's easier to know what makes your bike go.
Like most machines, your body has a limited capacity to vary speeds without breaking down. Find a pedaling rhythm and stay with it. For most riders, this "cadence" falls between seventy and eighty crank revolutions per minute. Use your gears to find the optimum rate. 
Vary the position of your hands on the handlebars. (Why am I telling you this? Because someone told me, and I'm glad they did. So just listen up: there will be a quiz at the end of the period. ) Find the most com­fortable positions for riding up and down hills, for coasting, and for heavy pedaling. 
Pedaling technique is tremendously important. It's called "ankling", and is incredible helpful for in­creasing efficiency on long trips. Place the balls of your feet on the pedals (never pedal any other way). Tilt the foot up at the top of each stroke, ~nd down at the bottom. Now, let's try it. Up. Down. Up. Down. 
Very good, class. 
Your ankle should be constantly swiveling in syn­chronization with the crank motion. The ankles act as levers to deliver m~re power to the crank without any great increase in po~:er from the legs. Thank God for efficiency. (Toe clips are very helpful here.) 
HAZARDS 
Now is the time we talk about a group of people who are going to join you on your trip, whether you want them (unlikely) or not (likely): Drivers. For the cyclist, it is an unfortunate fact of life that bicycles and automobiles have been delegated to the same roads. It is an unhappy marriage, as any veteran biker will tell you. ·mere ts a popular theory that bicycles trigger a subliminal response in many drivers which make them aim the car over to the side of the road, just.:."far enough to force the cyclist into the ditch, the retaining wall, or whatever else awaits him. 
There is not much you can do about this, outside of some insane alternatives. For example: there was, in 1933, a racket group in New York's Central Park called "The Bloody Bicyclists". (I swear, this is absolutely true.) They would prepare for a days work by donning torn trousers, ripped and bloodstained shirts, and scratched and e:orv Jells. In relays thev would work the 
·-';~'-;,{'%"';~ ·;· 
·-~ '' ..-. --', A a·':r ·-'~ roaas surrounrung the park, riding their bikes in front of cars and then crashing into the nearest wall or fence. 
The " victim" would then berate the motorist, and con him into paying from $10 to $25 to avoid beingreported. 
A friend of mine once told me another means of handling the dread crazy driver. When cars were headed his way, he would wobble a little bit just to throw fear into their hearts. Most drivers, he figured, were more afraid of really hurting someone than they were in·_ being sadistic. I refuse to recommend either method. You'll just have to find it deep within your moral fibre to face these demons. 
I refuse to recommend either method. You'll justhave to find it deep within your moral fi _ 
If you are heading into the city, probably on a day­trip, you will soon discover that it takes a special breed of cyclist to handle the traffic. Here are some tips.: 
-Don't get squeezed into the curb or forced into parked cars. They hurt, especially old Cadillacs with fatal tail fins. 
-Always rid,e with the traffic, never against, 1)0 matter what Officer Friendly told you in grammarschool. 
-Watch for parked cars._ Thev tend to open the doors at the funniest times. _(Ha-ha. "Do you mind if I ge1 my teeth from across the street, mister?") 
-Intersections call for extreme caution. Try to make sure your enemies seeyou. Yell, use your little bell, get a foghorn attatched to the handle bars, etc. If you're in the right lane, don't expect right-turners to give youthe right-of-way. They won't. 
-If possible, avoid the main routes and rush-hour. Other hazards include oil slicks, potholes, bicycle­eating sewer grates, pebbles and broken glass children who like to throw any of the above, and dogs.' Try .to out-maneuver, avoid, slash, whip, spit at, or wl:!_~tever is appropriate to the hazard. 
The most bizarre thing I ever heard about happened to the wobbler-friend of mine. He was riding through Idaho, I believe, in total no-man's land. No farms, no towns just forest. It seems a large flock of birds had built a small community around a mile-long stretch of road here, and were quite protective when it came to anything going down this stretch of road. My friend was one of these things. 
Shades of Hitchcock! !! As he entered this heart of darkness, a bird landed on his head and began pecking gently away at his scalp. Nothing budged him so my friend put his bike in gear and high-tailed it as 'best he could out of there. The bird rode him safely away from the nests, and then flew away. 
Like I said, the element of the unknown is the best thing about bike trips. 
Which brings us to ... PLANNING There are some excellent guidebooks and books 
about bike tripping. Two of them can be found in the Bibliography. (Continued on page 9) 
.-------------------­

Supplement Editor: AI Rutherford Assistant Editor: Bill Brink Staff: Fred Graver, Ann McCarry Photographer: Chris Smith, Zenon Bldzlnskl 
',, 
& . 
' 


Friday, September 20, 1974 
Plan to buy a bike? Caveat emptor! 
This is going to be short, because once we started tending to detail we would be getting out of our league. There's just too much to say to claim total credibility in this area, so we'll stick to basics. 
Bicycling in the past four years has become big, big, big business. Thus, when entering a bicycle store, be on your guard. Know that there are no bargains in good· bikes; price is commensurate to quality. If you have the money, even if you have to borrow your best friend's last dime, by all means buy a foreign bike. They are, simply, much better than the American product. If you do choose to buy American, Schwinn is the most reliable manufacturer. 
There are five main con­siderations in bicycle purchasing: 
1) the quality of the bike 
2) the bike's use 
3) the bike's cost 

4) the physical condition and size of the buyer 
5) the buyer's personal tastes 
Of the five, two stand out: quality and taste. Unfortunately, the two can also be the most irreconcilable. 
To find out if a bicycle is of high quality, talk to the dealer. Ignore all the lines he hands you about color, appearance, popularity, etc. 
Ask about the parts. Sooner or later, if he sees that you are· using your head about this and asking rather intelligent questions, he will begin to be straightforward about his merchandise. 
Have the dealer explain the differences between various makes and models. His recom­mendations can generally be trusted (unless you are buying at a department or discount house -for~ your own good, buy only at bicycle shops). The quality of certain components, especially the derailleur, gears and the brakes are worth checking out. 
Used touring bikes can sometimes turn out to be true treasures, since their owners spend a lot of time and energy keeping them up. First, as with new bikes, familiarize yourself with models and prices. 

Keep it in good shape 

Maintenance assures safety 

After you've been riding for a while, you can begin to pick up on certain sounds your bike gives off. If things are going well, the bike is almost silent, and runs. efficiently· Beware though, when this quiet harmony is interrupted by the unwelcome and dread "chinka­chinka," or some similar noise. If you don't do comething about this soon, there could be big troubles up ahead. 
To avoid hearing the sounds of pain and misery from your bike, here are a few things you can do to keep it healthy and happy. 
Grease and Oil: Any bearings on a bike which are packed with grease will stay lubricated, under normal conditions, for six months or more. Any bearings which are left out in the rain or buried in sand will stay -lubricated about six hours. If your bearings are greased, keep them from excess moisture (rain) and don't oil them. Overhaul and grease them once or twice a year, then leave them alone. 
The chain on any bike should be lightly coated with fine oil at all times. A light oil, like 3-in-1, will do. If you leave your bike outside, check the chain frequently. 



Things to or adjust: 
WHEELS: Check the big axle 
nuts or quick-release levers or 
tightness. 
TIRES: Keep the pressure at the 
number of pounds designated on 
the side of the tire. Check for 
wear. 
HAND BRAKES: Keep ad­
justed. The end of the hand lever 
should travel roughly two inches 
when the brakes are applied fully. 
Check the shoes to make sure that 
they aren't cock-eyed or loose. 
CHANGER: 3-speed -Check 
the indicator. Make sure the 
locknut is locked. 
10-speed --Check the control lever adjustable bolts. Check the range of the changer and adjust with the adjustable screws. 
PEDAL: Check that the spindle is locked against the crank. 
All the repairs and overhauls you need to do can be accomplished with the following tools. You may or may not need all of these, depending on how well you can adapt your tools to the versatile uses they were intended for. But some variety is necessary, since real damage can ·be done to the more fine and delicate components by using the wrong tools. (i.e. screwdrivers when replacing tires, monkey wrenches to tighten gears, hammer to straighten spokes). 
Very necessary: 
Crescent wrench hammer 
Screwdriver Pliers 
Cable Clipper Lubricants 
Tire Irons Tire Repair Kit 
Tnere are many more tools associated with bike repair, but we haven't the time to go into them here. We also don't have the in­terest of many of you to go any further. 
Booking can help for better biking 
Anybody's Bike Book. by Tom Cuthbertson. (Ten Speed Press. $3.00.) This is subtitled "an original manual of bicycle repairs", which pretty well describes it. The author holds to the CQntention that "if you can ride 'em, you can fix 'em". The book makes good reading even if you're not interested in the repair of bicycles, because of Cuthbertson's easy con­versational style. "Frankz Kafka once said 'There is only one human sin-impatience'. Not that I expect you to keep your patience when that tire bead bites off your finger and thenjumps off the rim. When you've just got to throw something, don't throw the wheel. Grab a handy wrench and throw it. It will make a much more satisfying clang and won't bend.") The illustrations are enjoyable, and at times pretty funny. You can learn a lot from this book. Tom Cuth­bertson is also the author of another exceptional book, Bike Tripping, which deals with the touring aspect of cycles. But for the best information on that. .. 
Vagabonding in America. by Ed Buryn. (Random House, Bookworks. $4.95.) A large and beautiful volume of in­formation (both external and internal) about getting around these States. Absolutely everything you need to know, even a chapter dedicated to helping you find out if you are really ready to make a long trip. Once chapter deals with bicycle touring, and contains a good deal of helpful advice and in­spiration. Tremendous reading all, around, though, and great for feeding the Wanderlust.. 
The Complete Book of Bicycling. by Eugen A. Sloan. <Trident Press-simon and Schuster. $9.95). Notice how these books get more expensive as we go down the list. Somewhat reminiscent of the funeral parlor shell game entitled "You know, you'll probably spend something truly equivalent to the love you felt." · 
Well, if you're carrying on an illicit affair with your machine, this is the "Joy of Sex" of cycling. Though not as cheerful as Cuthbertson's book, it is much more extensive and technical. Enough illustrations and information to enable the reader to declare himself an authority. 
The author is a man who rides his bike 30 miles a day into Chicago, commuting to work. It takes a stone fanatic like that to write an exhaustive book like this. 
The Complete Walker. by Colin Flethcer. (Alfred Knopf. $7.95) Slowly on our way down from the high-price bracket. Flethcer is an inspiration to anyone who wants to get out and away. He writes mainly about walking. In "The Man who Walked Through Time", he told of his hiking the entire Grand Canyon. The Complete Walker is less reflective and more informational than his other books. A good deal of advice useful to people planning on long bike tours. High on detail, and also on inspiring style. Colin faithfully com­municates his enthusiasm for the outdoors, loves to poke fun at himself, and has been known to spend pages defending some useless personal idiosyncracy just so you'll go out and 


ourself. 
Friday, September 20, 1974 
the observer 
9 


The Hundred Center 
·-~~-----~-­

An enjoyable time after a nice bike ride 
Dy Ann McCarry 
this,aswe are, for cheap thrills. shop here, too, La Cave Antiques. 
Editorial Editor 
Across from the stable in the old Our big find of the day was a 50 When Kamm and Schellin~er boiler house is Boiler House Flix. cent copy of Patti Page's immortal 
built their brewery in 1853 they This theatre caters to a bit more "He don't come around much also built a stable for their sophisticated taste than the any more." They buy and sell old draft horses and hitching posts for Cinema Art. Throughout the year beer cans and bottles too. 
the customers. We, on the other you'll find some good shows here-­If you're into crafts when you're hand, locked our bikes in the everybody from the Marx Brothers not pedalling, you'll enjoy cruisng stainless steel racks (where they to Ingmar Bergman. Oc­through The Shorn Sheep, which 
remained unscathed for the cassionally the Ice House , the specializes in weaving and yarns, duration of our four-hour browse) complex's ritzy, over-priced but the Schoolhouse Too and The and headed for the stable. It was a atmospherically dark and Designer's Workshop. H you like put on all the way at the Feed Bag, romantic restaurant, offers a to use a needle, hurry to the 
a small sandwich snack bar which dinner deal with free tickets for the Schoolhouse for free lessons. 
features homemade pies, good show. Keep this in mind for a big They've got lots of needlepoint, shakes and reasonable prices. date or if your parents come to rugs and embroidery stuff and Elsewhere in the building-you'll town. offer lessons to fledgling artists. find Earth Designs, a good place to Most of the shops are (They sell dulcimeres, too! ) The 
check-out pottery ware, congregated in the old brewery Designer's Workshop, the store kitchen gadgets and avant garde building itselfr The Bath Shoppe we Iliked best of the three, sells a house furnishings, and Primrose offers the best in bathroom ac­wide array of candles, bells and Antiques, for high-priced anti-Q's cessories for those of you who want trinkets and offers instruction in and china. (There's another an­to turn your locker into a reading decoupage and other crafts. (It tioue shop upstairs for the big room and The Gallery 100 will sell smells good, too.) 
buyers and sellers open only on you some expensive artwork to Got the munchies??? Head for weekends.) Not much here you'll make your shower look like the the Candy Barrel for all sorts of want to carry in a knapsack due to Louvre, or at least the O'Shag gastronomic delights. A diabetic fragility and expense if you're in gallery. There's another antique would go into shock just looking in 
the window, so be careful. For ­more mature tastes, gourmets like The Big Cheese. This place has more kinds of cheese than Neil Armstrong ever stepped on and a provocative selection of imported wines, sausages, teas and biscuits to accompany them. If you're not so sophisticated, make like a piggie at The Black Cow, the old­fashioned ice cream parlor. Their product tastes blaphemously much like Grandpa's homemade Sunday afternoon special. If Grandpappy's with you stop in the 'Toy Solider. Maybe he'll buy you a new Lionel or one of the new, fun, "creative educational toys" for 

tne path was one or tnose civic projects
One of the nicest places around to head 
that's dead before dedication time.
for if you are planning a few days on your 
So, to be brief, South Bend offers a
bike is the dunes. There are two large 
number of very pretty parks along the
Dunes "State Parks" in the area, one in 
course of the St. Joe River ,which are
Indiana (50-60 miles) and one in Michigan 
excellent places to get away. The monkey 
(40-50 miles). They both provide excellent 
bars are nice, too.

campsites and beautiful surroundings. 
Downtown South Bend is a torture
The best thing about camping atthedunes 
chamber for cyclists; the drivers just
is that, with little effort, you can remove 
don't care about you. Read the Hazards
yourself from the mainstream of campers 
section.

with their mobile vechicles, televisions, 
Now, about locks. First, register your
and Honda (pukka-pulls) generaors. 
bike with security. Their system for bike protection is the best thing they have, next The best place to camp in the dunes is to little tags they give you for swimming in 
deep into the trails. There are many St. Joe's lake. places to be found. Best campsites are in 
The best lock is the human eye. If you
the large bowl formations, which are 
can leave your bike where you can see it,
somewhat protected from the wind. 
by all means do so. H you can't see it, but 
To get to the dunes, consult a rod map. 
there is someone ·working outside, lock
Remember, you can't take the interstates 
up and ask them to keep an eye on things.
and it's best to stay away froin the main 
When buying a lock, remember that .the 
routes. 
uglier and gaudier, the better. Those nifty little yellow and blue plastic coated.t<·or OOth parks, you will need some sort 
necklaces that are so popular hold up
of means for carrying water, since it is a 
about as well as a chain of gum wrappers
long walk between the campsites and the 
against a strong pair of wire cutters.
pumps. (Lake water is not recomended.) If you decide to stay in the campsites,or Wnen I bought my bike, the salesman nearby, make sure _you take the time to steered me to a lock made in Boston of 
walk through. Though you may be grossed Kryptonite. <Don't laugh, it's true.) In a out at the overabundance of materialism. test run in Brooklyn, a good ten-speed was there's also a chance you will meet left in the middle of New York with one of somebody interesting. Watch for fellow these locks. The were forty-eight tri.es on bikers, they're always interesting when the bike, all failed. The lock looks you start tradin~ experiences. something like a closed-off horseshoe, and has an attachment to hold it to the bike
You have to be twenty-one to camp at the 
when riding. They are hard to find around 
Indiana Dunes, eighteen in Michigan. H 
here, most of the store owners I talked to 
you still insist on heading towards Indiana 
didn't have any idea, but will order it for
(and I don't blame you, the trails there are 
you if you give them the address:
magnificant), be prepared· to use your 
Kryptonite Bike Lock
wiles and cunning to sneak past the 
KBL Corp.
guards. 
Boston, Mass. 02118 The lock runs about $17, but are wellOne final thing. Clean up when you 
worth the expense and, if you consider it, 
leave. If possible, try and leave the place 
don't cost much more than a good padlock 
cleaner than when you came. There's 
and chain.

nothing more disgusting than finding a 
In regards to other types of locks, a good
beautiful site ruined by trash. Be clean! 
laminated padlock works well. The key
Originally , this was going to be the 
type is better and more secure than the
section on riding in South Bend. We 
combination.

noticed, while researching this article, the 
The thicker the, can, the better. Even if 
signs reading "Bicycle Path". We 
you have to attach a basket to your bike to 
inquired down at the county building about 
carry it (only kidding) a heavy chain of­
a map of this path, and nobody knew what 
fers a great deal more insurance against
we were talking about. Seems as though 
snippers than a lightweight ohe. 
whiz kids. We spent most of our time in Pier Other stores include a pet shop, 1 Imports which offers a cheaper Pet Pourri, and a growies shop, the cross section of everything you 
find in the other stores. WeGreen Thumb. We passed up both stopped here last and made all of these. Puppies and philoden­our purchases here. So, if you aredorn don't like riding in knapsacks. 

careiuliy pianning chimes, bells,There are a couple of head shops lithographs, posters, health food,for the not so young and· not too old. 

antiques, pottery, rugs, wicherThe Leather Banana is one store furniture, games toys, teas and you won't want to split from. You even escargot and fried pork rinds. 

can buy everything from em­The Hundred Center is a finebroidered shirts to custom-made 
destination for your first trip. Not clogs and visors and caps. They too far, not too close, ant there is 
also sell leather halters. (We don't something for everyone. The recomment wearing one of these to cobblestones may be a bit rough on cycle in, or you will get run off the your tires, the prices a bit hard on road. If you get tired, however, your wallet, but'the atmosphere, andwantto thumb a ride, one of the people it attracts and the 
these might help you talk the quaint difference between the driver into toting your wheels, rustic setting and the bookstore too.) If t-shirts are your game, hit will do your soul good. the Giant Gypsy Panda. They'll 
If you're heading out eM!l

custom print one for you while you campus, take Notre Dame Avenue wait. 
to Cedar Street; go left on Cedar to Exotic gifts in this old world at­Twykenham and take a right.
mosphere. The Foreign Flair has Detour through Potwatomie Zoo a remarkable selection of im­for a drink of water and then stay ported jewelry, Ms. Eve's on Twykenham West. The Hun­
Boutique flaunts other far-out gifts dred Center will be on your left. and bangles which could tempt any If you get lost, as we did,·a~ a Adam. It is a veritable garden of little kid for directions. They'll
earhly delights for anyone with the give your bike a sugar cubeandset money. you off on the right route. 
Very long distances require preparations 
<Continued from page 7) Road maps, as found in gas stations and the like, are as useful as anything else. Try and get a topographical atlas for long-distance tripping, it could make a big difference. (What do ya mean, the road half a mile over hasn't got those big hills?) EQUIPMENT The best way to pack is to put everything you want to take on the floor, then take less than half of that. H you're only heading out for the day, all that is necessary is a backpack or carrier to bring home the booty. For a longer trip, carriers that fit on the rear or the handlebars are nice. REMEMBER: Every pound you take means more energy expended in every pedal. DRESS ACCORDING You do a great deal of moving and exerting of yourself on a bicycle. So baggies, sandals, tennis dresses, and all of their fashionable counterparts are out of the question. The main rule is to make your clothing comfortable, lightweight as possible--allowing freedom of movement with a bit of support in areas of stress and wear. <Bicycle seats can make your bot­tom, if it is not in condition, feel as if a pack of wild dogs has been chewing on it. Pants made from a strong fabric like denim or khaki are helpful.) As for dressing according to the weather, it is always helpful to listen to that mother's voice deep down inside as you look out the window. H that voice pleads, "take a sweater and button up", by all means do so. Bicycling tends to get you very much in touch with the elements. 
TOURING EQUIPMENT LIST Camping Equipment: 
To Wear: Sleeping Bag Cycling shoes Tube tent Wool or Cotton socks Nylon cord (50') Underwear and T-shirt Small propane stove Long sleeved shirt Matches (in waterproof container) 
Cycling shorts First aid kit Belt Flashlite Visored cap 2 Sierra Cups Bandana Spoon and Fork Watch (optional) Sewing kit Sunglasses Candles Swiss Army Knife (invaluable) Bike 
Clothes in Sack: Bike Needs: Wash pants or skirt Tool KitRear Packs 2 wash shirts or blouses Handlebar bag 1 sweater Saddle bag 1 light parka Cycling cape or rain poncho Bike Lock Sweat suit (pj's in cold) 2 pair underwear and T-shirts Personal: Levi's Toothbrush Sandals or moccasins Toilet Paper Hiking shoes Soap and plastic container 
Comb or brush Pocket mirror

Other: Traveler's Checks(?) Notebook Pens Address book (friends at home) Guidebook Maps Camera and film (optional but highly recommended) 


---------~~--~~----­

Friday, September 20, 1974
ODJbudsiJlCin reception held 
by Paul Young channel information to the Staff Reporter students. Bill McLean, Om­budsman director, said, "If people The Ombudsman service held a get to know each other, they're less reception yesterday from noon to 2 likely to jump to conclusions when 
p.m. for the Notre Dame faculty, problems arise." staff and administration officials. The Ombudsman is a student 
The purpose of the reception was service organization operating as a to open the avenues of com­branch of Student Government. munication between the Om­The Ombudsman has 120 volun­budsman and guests to help teers working a total of 100 hours a 
Former housing director O'Neil heads placement 
by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 

Mrs. Karen O'Neil has been appointed director of St. Mary's placement bureau, replacing Janice Wheaton who has taken another position out of state. 
For the past year O'Neil has served as director of housing at SMC. 
"Right now we are working on several projects," said O.'Neil, "For instance, we will be actively looking for companies that have positions for liberal arts students as well as business and science students," In addition we will be working with the Notre Dame placement office," she continued. 
O'Neil plans to send out a newsletter to each class every month. "I think career awareness should start freshman year, not in the crunch of the second semester of senior year. The letter to the freshmen will be geared towards self assessment, advising them to start thinking about their goals and values, and how they relate into a work style. 
The sophomore newsletter will deal with relating different academic areas to career levels. The junior letter focuses on giving specific information on careers, where to look for a job, what the pay scales are, etc. 
The letter to the seniors will deal with specifics for writing resumes, signing up for and attending in­terviews and the problems they face upon graduation," she ex­plained. 
Hawthorne beginS 10:45 AM SUN. FR. OLLIE WILLIAMS C.S.C. Heilly lectureS On 12:15 AM SUN. FR. BILL TOOHEY, C.S.C.
i 
Inondaynig~ 
Dr. M. Frederick Hawthorne, an authority on rocket propellants and metal hydrides, will deliver three Peter C. Reilly lectures in 
I 
• chemistry at 4:30p.m. in Room·123 of the University; of Notre Dame's Nieuwland Science Hall Sep­tember 23,25 and 'n. 
A professor of chemistry at UCLA, Hawthorne is widely known for his work on the synthesis of metalcarboranes ~ These com­
pounds, consistmg of carbon,
~ 
hydrogen, boron and various metals, possess structures in which the heavy atoms lie at the vertices of regular polyhedra. The chemical consequences of such unique structures will be the basis of his lecture series. 
Hawthorne, who is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and editor of "Inorganic Chemistry," will discuss "An Overview of Polyhedral Borane Chemistry" <Sept. 23), "Metalocarboranes-8ynthesis and Reactions" (Sept. 25), and "Ap­plications of Metalocarboranes in Catalysis" (Sept. 'n). 
The Reilly lecture series honors the memory of the late In­dianapolis industrialist Peter C. Reilly, and is sponsored by the Department of Chemistry and the College of Science. The lectures are !ree and open to the public. 
~========================~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
LOCAL TALENT 
ATTENTION 
Anyone \Mshing to Have 'Their Name Placed in a Directory of Campus and Local Talent Now Being Compiled, Please Contact John Eidt at 8232 (leave a Message) or V\kite to Box 639, Notre Dame, IN. Please Include all Pertinent Info. (Type of Music, Price, Dates, Address) 
One of the major responsibilities of the placement office is to help students prepare for job hunting and interviews. "I feel that women face a lot of problems men don't face when looking for a job. However if the students here know what they face before they leave here, they'll be better prepared," O'Neil said. 
O'Neil graduated from St. Mary's in 1971. She will continue to hold her position as director of housing until Sept. 23. 
Working with O'Neil in placement are Terry Bowman, Kathy Rogers, Cindy Kujik, Patty Doyle and Linda Temple. 
BETHEL COLLEGE LECTURE SERIES PRESENTS 
BART STARR 
GREEN BAY PACKERS SPEAKING ON SPORTS 
TUESDAY OCTOBER 1 8:00P.M 
$2.00 STUDENTS $3.00 ADULTS 
BETHEL COLLEGE GOODMAN AUDITORIUM 1001 W. Nk:KINLEY , MISHAWAKA (ACROSS FROMTOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER> FOR INFORMP,TION, CALL 259-8511 
SUNDAY MASSES 
(MAIN CHURCH) 
5:45PMSAT. FR.ROBERTGRIFFEN CSC. 9:30•AMSUN. FR.LENBANAS C.S.C. 
week on the phones, McLean 
stated, "to handle any problem 
question or complaint of the Notre 
Dame community." 
To handle these questions, Ombudsman must be able to ex­tract information from various sources including administrative, faculty and staff members. An honest and direct approach is essential, stressed McLean, since the Ombudsman "doesn't have power clout as its strength but rather access to people." 
Bes!des strengthening thl) ef­fectiveness of the Ombudsman, the reception served to initiate members to the organization. As Ombudsman staff members graduate, new workers must establish relations with sources so that the mediator role of the Ombudsman may effectively continue. "The reception provided a way to simply say, "Thank you to the people who helped us in the past," McLean noted. 
Guests attending the reception included newly appointed University Chaplain Fr. Robert Griffin, Fr. Terry Lally, Fr. Ed­mund Joyce and James Roemer, University Counsel. 
The reception, held in the Om­budsman offices, was arranged by Matt Cockrell, Internal Development qfficer of Ombud­sman. 
BEST 

: 


: 'ya gotta ShOW ya iUSt gotta' : 
: (if rain, JAM E S 0 EA N : 
t.!~.:..~.c.:.~.-: ••~.~~~-~.-; ••~!l.f.cz.~t!l.~eflj 
Friday, September 20, 1974 the observer 1 1 

The other day, a group of concerned students asked me to say Mass at the Grotto during October for the unborn children whose lives have been terminated by abortion. I told them that I don't understand how the offer;ug of Mass would be of value or assistance to foetuses interrupted on their journey into life. "I couldn't begin to understand the tt-eological implications of such a liturgy," I said. "Even infants who die after birth do not require the prayers of the Church. Whatever links to immortality an embryonic life has, I am sure that im­mortality is safe in the hands of God." 
Instead of Mass for the unborn innocents, which would seem to me like a sentimental, somewhat futile gesture, I made another suggestion: why not have Mass for the parents who have chosen abortion or are considering abortion as a choice preferable to the birth of an unwanted child? 
To offer to pray for someone, you know, has at times a certain nervineu about it: as though you, the praying one, lived on a superior moral plane, and were blesaed with a truer vision and the higher graces ; and your Christian morality were ~;:iding herd on the shiftless conduct of the unwashed mob. God deliver me from seeming pushy with piety. As I would deal with other men, I hope that they would also deal with me: praying for me in my sins, assisting me in my agonies, wishing me the peace of a quiet conscience. 
During the summer, a couple whom I am 
fond of were faced with a difficult decision. 
The woman, who suffers from a disease 
requiring filters in the blood stream to 
prevent clotting, became pregnant with her 
sixth child. Her doctors, who had warned 
against pregnancy, were certain that if the 
woman insisted on carrying the child, both 
master of mystery and suspense 
Alfred Hitchcock is the cinematic master of mystery and suspense. His films represent a sardonic blend of misanthropic musings and artistic intelligence. Con­sistently, he seeks out and explores that vast grey area between lily white goodness and pitch black evil. And always, for Hitchcock, this evil lurks beneath a facade of innocence and normalcy. Unearthed,· it serves to represent the Hitchcock vision of life in all its complexity and volatility. 
Thus, in a sense, the director's audience becomes more than mere onlookers. First, they are part and parcel of the resi<iingevil within our tenuous human condition. Secondly, they are participants in ex­plorations into Hitchcockian reality. Hit­chcock is so technically adept in the cinematic medium that he seems to control us as we become totally absorbed in his presentation on the screen. In "Psycho", we are lulled into a sense of serenity as a woman sings lightly to herself in the shower. 
Then suddenly, a vague figure appears behind the curtain and a viscious butchering occurs. In "The Birds", Tippi Hedren sits outside a schoolhouse smoking a cigarette, a few birds perched on a telephone wire in the background. Then a closeup of Hedren's face for a few moments, followed by a pulling back of the camera to reveal hun­dreds of birds in the schoolyard. A quick closeup of Hedren's face as she notices the birds reveals the unsettling anxiety of the scene-the natural balance of things has been upset. 
Hitchcock employs even more subtle means to convey his meaning. Purposely, he chooses handsome actors to portray his "villains", as is the case wi~ a youthful Joseph Cotten playing a psychopathic killer in "Shadow of Doubt". Often his climatic scepes ta,k,e place ~t .t\1~ .~te. pf f~mili~r national landmarks such as Mt. Rushmore mother and infant would die. To prevent this double tragedy, they said, an abortion was necessary. The couple took it to the Lord in prayer; they consulted priests and sought alternate medical advice. Finally, the difficult decision was made, and an abortion was performed, the couple feeling sure that this operation was a necessary event. But afterwards, Catholic relatives said to the mother: "If you had only had faith, nothing is impossible to God. Your own mother risked her life in a similar kind of emergency: you were born, and your if they judge themselves harshly, God's love is never more fatherly than when it reveals itself as forgiveness. 
Would it be offensive, then, for me to pray with others at a Grotto Mass for couples like these friends of mine who have made dif­ficult decisions? 
Celibates like me may have an exaggerated sense of the drama involved in performing the sexual act, just as laymensometimes profess to imagine that offering Mass must be a happening as filled with thunder and lightning as a visit to Mount decision that the responsibility of parents can be relieved by a surgeon's knife. At our Mass, we shall p~:ay for sensitivity toward those who must make this choice. We hope they will realize that we, too, are concerned about mothers whuse physical or mental health is threatened by childbirth;· and about those children who will be born to parents without the resources, the love, or the commitment to guard their infancies. 
The most terrifying symbol I can imagine of irresponsibility in modern life is that of an pbortion clinic, with technicians and 

if i would understand the suffering that gives up a child, i must share with parents their fears, risks, hardships, shame, sacrifice, and discouragements. 
mother lived." No priest has yet talked the couple out of their guilt feelings; some haven't even tried. 
There is a reckless conviction on my part that if decent, sensitive people have engaged, even under casual circumstances, in the self-giving required for the begetting of a human life, then the surgical ter­mination of that life must cost them a price in suffering, sometimes a terrible price that they will be paying all their lives. Abortion is, after all, a violent means of negating the consequences of a human act that needed responsibility as an atter.dant cir­cumstance. I think that heaven, in its gentle dealings, heals our guilt with mercy. Without presuming to read the human conscience, I want my friends to know that 
by bill ""flie 
and the Statue of Liberty, hardly a place one would expect to find the playing out of the eternal struggle between good and evil. And in "Dial M for Murder".' an inanimate object, the telep~o~e, becomes the focal pomt of excruc1atmg suspense through
refreshingly creat.ive handlin.g of the, best gifts? camera and the cutting room. Fmally, the Some of us cannot be comfortable with the 
~~0~! 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111-IIIIIDIIIIIIII-&HiilnllftlllntiiiiiiiiDIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIII 

~~:~~~~if:te~:ify ~~t~~s:O~~:~, 
director many times halts his score at 
crucial points to heighten tension, jux­
taposing eerie music with unsettling silence. 
Hitchcock's films are unquestionably 
highly artistic-to see them is, again, to see a 
master craftsman at work. Suspenseful plot 
structure, brilliant editing, and an uncanny 
feel for what elicits emotion from the 
viewer-these and more are always present. 
And yet, Hitchcock is also a supremem 
entertainer, a conscious blend of wit and 
artistic vision. For this he must be con­
sidered on of the greatest director's of the 
film industry. He is, as the New York Times 
has said, "A master of shock and suspense, 
of cold hororand slyly incongruous wit, he 
uses his camera the way a painter uses his 
brush, stylizing his story and giving values 
his scenarists could hardly have suspec­
ted." 

Begin:1ing this Sunday, Sept. 22 at 8 p.m. t~ Cultural Arts Arts Commission's Cinema : ; will present its Alfred Hitchcock Film Fe!'tival. Five films will be shown Sunday through Thursday at 8 and 10 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission is $1.00, patrons admitted free. The schedule is as follows: 
Sunday -"The 39 Steps" Monday -"Spellbound" Tuesday -"Foreign Correspondent" .. , ...W~n~sd~y-"Shadow of a Doub~" . Thursday -"Dial M for Murder" 
Sinai. The truth is, of course, that the daily performance of a ritual mutes the thunder and eclipses the lightning, and sacramental inactments can become a routine manipulation of symbols and liturgical texts. A Church filled with priests jaded with the chores of Eucharistic celebration would be a mystical body needing a re-birth in the Holy Spirit. A world full of people whose sexual adventures have become as mindlessly mechanical as the spin-about of an upside-down bicycle whet!l turned by the wind in a junkshop, is a wasteland without growth, in need of rain. Eliot has described that nightmare world, but we may be closer to the horror than he was. Images occur in living scenes that are closer to us than any poet's metaphor. A pretty girl, in dif­ficulties, scans the bulletin board in the Student Union, looking for a number. A phone call arranges an afternoon visit. Soon, her difficulties will be over, without complications. No one dares to condemn this child. She just forgot one day to get her prescription filled. Her mother says: "She's not fifteen anymore. She's old enough to take care of those things herself.'' Some mother. 
So in our Grotto Mass we will remember the innocent ("Father, forgive them ... "), the ignorant, the selfish, the indifferent, and the ones who merely fear an inconvenience. We will pray for those who do not have the courage to be heroic (as it seems to them).
Our mood and conviction will be that the decision to bear children is an act of faith in God, whose providence seems more evident to some families than to others. But who are we to say it does not take courage and faith to insist that heaven receive back its own machines tearing away at the bodies of women, ending foetal life· at the rate of dozens of deaths in an hour, hundreds in a day. It is' the horror of the Wasteland, a parody of all laws guaranteeing man's right to be free. One's personal freedom must be conditioned by the rights of others, in­cluding those to whom our bodies have given the heartbeat of life. 
Hopefully, in our Grotto Mass, our only judgments will be on ourselves, realizing that the decision to visit the abortion clinic is affected by many pressures, some of them our own: "The landlord won't allow children," and I am the landlord; a couple cannot afford to raise a child, and I am a rich man without compassion; society condemns the unmarried mother, and I am an unprincipled blatherskite. The birth of a child should be a celebration for all of us. 
The death of a child under a doctor's supervision, and with his tools, diminishes me , just as do the deaths of all those other men for whom the bell tolls. If I would understand the suffering that gives up a child, I must share with parents their fears, risks, hardships, shame, sacrifice, and discouragements. Then I would know what it costs them to take care of a family. 
Finally, then, I must go to the Grotto to pray for myself, asking for the generosity to exercise a fatherhood, if the opportunity comes my way, as a support or a surrogate parent to any child, anywhere, to whom my care can give life. 
I care about the children, I care about the parents; otherwise I would never say Maps m that Grotto at all. 

a photograph by andy waterhouse 

-----------------~--~-·-­
12 the observer Friday, September 20, 1974 
---------~--====~-------­
Due to Venezuelan taxes 
9..~u~S ~~.!.~..~~.!m.E!~.~!:~"'Y~~ Ex!.-!!~!!~~'~'
CARACAS <UPI) -U.S. and h 'ped t ove $175 m'll'on tax payments of $50 mllhon, a and Gulf, faces additional tax cent tax or royalty increase 
. . . . as w1 ou r 1 1 . . . .
other fore1gn oll compames 10 . t b t s e j ed by the spokesman for one major o1l payments of over $175 mllhon, would mean for Venezuela an V~nezuela, whi.ch. supplies .a ~~m~:ni~~ aa~d i~ 0J'0 w prepar-company said. "It's written into ~ccording to industry es-additional $350 million in tax th1rd of U.S. ml 1mports, w1ll in to hike taxes further to cut our .. supply contracts that bmate~.. revenue, according to Finance pass on to .consumers the tax . f alleged excess profits add1tional tax costs cannot be . Additionally, t_he govern~ent Minister Hector Hurtado. mcreases 1mposed by the 10 0 nme t sources re rt ' totally absorbed, so we have no 1s now prepanng tax h1kes Venezuela is the world's third Venezuelan go_vernment, indus-go.~xr onen per cent in~a~e in choice but to pass them along ~long the lines of recomm~nda-largest oil exporter after Saudi try sources sa1d Thursday. to the consumer." bons made at the recent V1enna Arabia and Iran and ships 
Venezuela collects a 60 per meeting of ministers of the around 1.8 millon barrels of cent income tax from oil Organization of the Petroleum crude and refined oil per day to
SMC Regents to consider 
companies based on artificially countries. The U.S. markets. high oil export prices which the government itself sets and
presidential hopefuls 
which rose to an average $14.43 a barrel in July. The govern­ment earns over $9 a barrel for 
by Mary Reher has served as Acting President oil exported and this year Staff Reporter since the resignation of Dr. Ed­expects to collect about $10 ward Henry last May 20. billion in oil revenues. 
The St. Mary's Board of Regents Attending the meetings this Government sources disclosed will meet today and tomorrow to weekend for the first time is Carol Wednesday that tax rebates interview two candidates for Collins, the new student member of that the companies were College President. The can­the board. Collins, also president awarded for winning higher 
prices for Venezuelan oil in
didates, Dr. Francis Mertz and Dr. of the senior class, is replacing 
world markets had been
Paul Reiss, were recommended by Mary Ellen Stumpf who graduated 
eliminated. The abolishment of
the Search Committee, headed by last May. 
Fr. J.P. Whalen. 
Although only two candidates will be interviewed this week, Sr. Catherine Francis, chairman of the board, stated, "There could· well be other people considered." 
The Search Committee, ap­pointed last March 16 by the Board of Regents, recommends possible candidates to the board which then interviews them. After con­sidering all candidates, the board will elect a president. 
The candidate selected by the Board of Regents will resume the office of Dr. William Hickey, who 

the. rebates means that the 
WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Senior& Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thr!J October Near Lake Wawasee. Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189 

COME TO THE BULLA SHED ANl BRING A FRIENl mass &dinner every friday 5 pm 

****************************+**********************************+************ ****** 
: "YOU'VE COME A LONG WAY...'Teach' "! ~ 
* *
* *
* : 
~ l"-~
• --~---*
• -*
* 
! • 

~ ~, ! 
* *
* * 
*: --t~ :•* •* 
* *
* WHAT HER STUDENTS FROM ARTHUR MURRAY INTO s*"Teach"... IS INCE I960 Fran DeMarko ** 
* 
* HAS TRAINED HUNDREDS OF LARGE •• ~l<~ONDLY CALL Fran DeMarko. PROFESSIONAL DANCING...WITH A ** 
GROUPS IN SCHOOLS...FRATERNAL : 

tsHE HAS TAUGHT...AND DANCED PARTNER WHOM SHE ALSO TRAINED SHE ORDERS...SEMI-PRIVATE AND PRIVATE * 
r 
* :
:PROBABLY 20,000 HOURS SINCE SHE DANCED IN EVERY BEAUTIFUL MID-LESSONS...CAN LEAD AND FOLLOW ALL *
l 
* 
STEPS IN FOX TROT...WALTZ...ROCK'N ~ tTRAINED AS A TEACHER WITH THE WESTERN RESORT ...INCLUDING NIP-* 

* 
ROLL ... POLKA ... CHA CHA ~ 


:VAST EMPIRE CALLED ... ARTHUR PERSINK...WISCONSIN...OAKTON CHA.. RHUMBA ..TANGO... * 
** SAMBA... MERENGUE ... MAMBO. SHE :* 
*MURRAY...NEW YORK...IN 1949 MANOR...FIDELMANS...SOUTH :i­
* HAS CREATED A 73,000 WORD )t. 
:THEN ON TO CLEVELAND, OHIO AS HAVEN...BILTMORE...AND THE WHIT-MANUSCRIPT ON SOCIAL DAN-: 
~\ SUPERVISOR ... INTERVIEWER CES... CALLED TOUCH DANCING" READY ~ 
* •
* COMB HOTEL, ST. JOSEPH, MICH., FOR PUBLICATION...14 YEARS IN THE * j_:AND DANCE DIRECTRESS. ;
* 

WHERE SHE WAS "BOOKED" FOR TWO MAKING. ..,.. 
*THEN IN CHICAGO, ILL. ..ARTHUR : : LONG YEARS. * : MURRAY...SECOND LARGEST OF THE 468 SO NOTRE DAME HAS ACQUIRED FRAN t 
• * 
:sTUDIOS WHERE SHE TRAINED THEIR DEMARKO ..A WISE MOVE. : 
* WHILE CHICAGO SHE LESSONS EVERY MON. EVE 7 TO :
*TEACHERS

* . ·: 
* WHILE AT THE WHITCOMB Fran 9...LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. * 
:APPEARED ON WGN...WALLY PHILLIPS lf­
* 
DECIDED TO TEACH DANCINGTO LOCAL : :BAND STAND MATINEE...EACH DAY FOR COME ALONE ...GROUP OR DATE lf­

* 
RESIDENTS. : :A YEAR. : 


............~.."f.Jf¥¥¥¥+¥..¥!1-..•f'-.1f¥.¥¥¥¥:JI.¥¥¥¥¥-¥.¥.¥,4•t¥-•..¥•••1f••••+•••..••••••••••••¥.lf¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Jf¥¥¥¥+¥¥* : .. ~ • • • • • • • .. ~'\ • ~~ ~ ~ .. , •• , : : : : ~ t • : ~ • : ... • • ~ • . • • • .• ., ... ., ...... -" •••.· ·. • ... ... • • j , ~ •••• 

Friday, September 20, 1974 fhe ObServer' 
I-• J 

In cancer research m~.r m . 
~ w.,t \Ull1nnta1 
Marijuana shows m.edical value~. Jaurakr -nusr 
• 
By THOMAS FERRARO 
RICHMOND <UPI) -An active marijuana ingredient appears to be an effective anti­depressant for cancer patients who have problems coping with the disease, Medical College of Virginia researchers said Thursday. 
The patients did not experi­ence the so-called marijuana"high" from taking the agent, Delta 9-thc, according to Dr. William Regelson, chairman of MCV's Department of Medical Oncology, who headed the study. 
But he said many of the patients had "less depression, undergoing chemotherapy, he
St. Mary's fencing team said. Thirty four of the original54 patients finished the project, and a few patients have remained on the theraphy for
to defend tourney title 
longer than six months. 
by Chris Bock Staff Reporter 

The Saint Mary's fencing team is in their third week of practice preparing to defend the Great Lakes Tourney title which they won last year. 
The team opens its season against Tri·stateat Angola, Ind. on Jan. 17. Coach Richard Rosinski hopes to organize a week-long eastern swing including Cleveland Annapolis, and New York afte~ Angola. 
In preparation for their first 
'meet, fencing practice is held daily at the ACC. During the two­hour sessions the girls go through a period of long-distance running, calisthenics, footwork exercises and bouting and blade work. ' 
Rosinski pointed out that Mike DeCicco, varsity fencing coach at Notre Dame, had a strong in­fluence in organizing a girl's fencing program. He helps in­struct the girls during their practices. 
"DeCicco is a fencing master," stated Rosinski. "He works very hard teaching the girls the proper techniques of fencing." 
The fencing team is a relatively new organization started in 1971. Under the coaching of Rosinski and DeCicco, the team has im­proved from a 2-3 record in their first year, to a 14-3 record and the Great Lakes Tourney Cham­pionship in 1974. 
The fencing team is made up of girls from St. Mary's and Notre Dame. ReturniQg veterans are Jody Boniferd, Sue Krakora, Anne Werner, Kathy Valdisseri, and Cindy Rebholz, the tea~ captain. 
Hatch to kick-off 
business and economic talks 
Thomas E. Hatch, director of growth and development at Consumer Products Group, Miles Laboratories, Elkhart, will discuss "The Intracacies in the Developml;lnt of a New Product" Tuesday, September 24, at 7:30 
p.m. in Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
A graduate of the University of Notre Dame, Hatch received his 
M.B.A. from the University of Chicago. He was employed by General Foods and the Gillette Corporation Division of thee Toni Company before joining Miles Laboratories as director of growth and development in the medicinal products division. 
Tuesday evening's lecture, the first presentation in the series "Contemporary Issues in :Business 1 and Economics," is sponsored by the department of business administration and econom.ics at St. Mary's Colle~e. 
The public is invited to ~ttend without charge. · apprehension, suspicion and patient who experienced disas­became more self-reliant and sociation was cut in haH. more tranquil" with some "Under short term it has requiring less pain killers. been found to be extremely 
Another group of MCV effective, but it's too early to researchers recently released determine what long term findings indicating Delta 9-thc effect it will have," Regelson 
may be a deterrent to the said. "What we're seeking to do growth of some types of is· relieve the despondency, loss cancerous tumors. of appetite and nausea which 
1

"Many patients experienced accompanies cancer and alters side effects of dizziness and the patient's quality of life due only one disassociation," said to depression," he said. 
Regelson. "The patient was "So far we've found the agent unable to perceive things to be effective," Regelson said. correctly and got confused." "Patients experience less 
The 54 patients in the depression and no loss of experimental program took appetite and many even say the capsules of the pure drug three food tastes better." times a day. The dosage for the Those selected for the re­
search were in the advanced 
stages of cancer and were 
Regelson said a $53,000 grantAll of the girls must maintain a 2.2 

f~om the National Cancergrade point average in order to 
Institute for the project, startedparticipate. in September, 1973, are running
Those freshmen girls interested out but that he will apply forin joining the fencing team will be additional money. A full reportnotified about the date of the first is planned this fall after all thefreshman practice, according to research is completed and.
Rosinski. 
evaluated. 
you'll 

Big Discounts! Save up to $3.00! 
Records 
Top artists! Major labels! 
Hundreds of recorl' _,! Classics included! , Many, many selections in this special purchase. ~ HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
SALE STARTS MONDAY SEPT. 23 

DON'T MISS THIS SALE!! 
,.·.'.Come early for best selection! 


"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
l
~=====~=========:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::!!:::::-::::=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=::::X!:::w :~: 35 Varieties of Pancakes .;::: ::::chicken -Steak -Sandwiches :;~;~ jfEj Friday Nites: Perch Dinners l~~ 
:~:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::~:~:::~:::::::::::::::~::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::# 

U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, ND '50 
IVIICIDGAN STREET 
ADULT THEATRES 
X 2 f1LM) X BOOKSl'CH: ,X LIVE FI.CXE SHOW 

1316 Sa.JrH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 

at these 
./VW\/V\1 

l 
l 

-~~-----------~----------­
Conswner' protection bill fails 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -By a two-vote margin, the Senate killed Thursday legislation that would have created a consumer protection agency. 
On a 64-34 vote, proponents of the bill fell two short of the necessary two-thirds majority in their fourth and final attempt to rescue the legisla­tion from a filibuster that had droned on for two months. 
Supporters of the measure blamed its downfall on massive lobbying by big business and President Ford's non-commital stand. 

The House had overwhelm­ingly passed the legislation earlier this year but Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mans­field, who had allowed the unusual fourth try at ending the debate, said the issue would be dead for this year if it failed again. 
The Consumer Federation of America said Ford's "ominous silence" on the issue helped seal its fate. 
"It is clear that pressures from big business altered the President's thinking on the most vital piece of consumer legislation of the decade," the organization said in a state­ment. 
"Consumers regard Mr. Ford's silence as a slap in the face," it added. "Just as his predecessor sided with business against consumers on every vital issue, Mr. Ford is showing where his loyalties lie, just as the senators who opposed the cloture vote (to end debate) showed theirs." 
False alarm in McCandless alerts ND fire department 
Flaim stated the event was anby Mary Egan 
Ace Reporter unusual occurence. "We will try 
to eliminate burning after 9 p.m., 
A McCandless Hall fire alarm so that if it does happen again it 
sounded early Thursday morning will be at a more convenient 
because of a smoke smell coming hour," Flaim said. "We have a 
from dining hall iincinerator. An problem because the men who do 
RA, believing there was a fire, the burning work late." Saga will 
pulled the alarm. inform security when using the 
The alarm alerated the fire incinerator, he added. 
The fire department "left im­

i 
mediately" and arrived in "about foUJ minutes," said Fire Chief Bro. Brorromeo. 
The alarm alerted SMC security by activating an outside red 
warning light and a mechanism in the security office, said Mrs.

r 
I 
Elizabeth Dose, McCandless Hall Director. 
t 
"The residents evacuated the bu.ilding in about three minutes," 
said Mrs. Dose. "It was orderly. They did a good job, considering they haven't had a fire drill yet and there are a lot of freshman here." 
Security went through the building looking for the fire, ac­cording to Anthony Kovatch, Head of Security. "We went up with the RAs and they searched." The search took six or seven minutes. 


Residents were able to return to th~ir rooms after about 10 minutes, said Dose. 
Assistant Saga Director Charlie 

North western bus trip 
The Northwestern football game bus trip sponsored by the junior class officers will leave the circle near the main gate at 9 a.m. The officers ask that all those attending the trip take extra care to be on time since the departure time will be strictly enforced. The buses will leave Northwestern ap­proximately one-half hour after the game . 

• • 4 W ••••• ~ •"• .~.-.\.....,',.,•,.·.-.. ~.·. ·. • · •;
• 
Opposition to the bill was led primarily by the U. S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers, although some big corporations had broken with those organiza­
tions  and  were  backing  the  
measure.  
The  bill  would  have  estab­ 

lished a 250-man agency with a three-year budget of $60 million to act as an advocate for the consumer in the halls of government. In theory it would have been able to intervene for the consumer when other agencies were making decisions regarding price, safety and other issues. 
Proponents claimed the con­sumer needed the agency because they now have no one to counteract the influence of high-paid lobbyists and lawyers representing big business. Op­ponents said the agency would throw a monkey wrench into the operations of government, and the way to help consumers should be to get existing agencies functioning properly. 
It was the strongest showing in the Senate yet by backers of the bill, but they failed to switch enough votes to make the difference. 
Sen. Charles H. Percy, R-lll., said "narrow special interest groups" had "combined to literally line the halls of th Senate office buildings over the past several weeks with the 
b~e:-money lobbys that have misrepresented this bill from the outset." Percy, Sen. Abraham Ribi­
coff, D-conn., had all predicted in advance of the vote that another try would be made next year, with the chances good for an even stronger version of the legislation emerging. 
But opponents, led by Sens. James B. Allen, D-Ala., and Sam Ervin Jr., D-N.C., said they hoped the issue was dead. 
Ervin told the Senate the bill would have given the adminis­trator of the agency authority that would "make an absolute eastern potentate turn greenwith envy." 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS VvlTHOUT WHEELS? When In Need Of A Quick Getaway, Call Lois At JORDAN
JORDAN FORD 
FORD
259-1981 
STUDENT RATES: Rent A PINTO For Just 
$5/Day & SIMile (MIN. AGE 2l) 
609 E. Jefferson, Mishawaka 

They're here. Now. 
The fitted jacket is made of the famous rugged heavy duty 100 percent cotton denim that s~ts Levi'~ apart. We also feature jeans in flares or straight leg 
styles. Ask. to see the new Levi's corduroy campus
fashions. Denim Jacket...$16.50 Denim Jeans ...from $13.50 
... 0 N THE CAMPUS NOTRE DAME 

department at 1:15 a.m. Thursday. r~::.:;~.:..!!::..:~~-------==================================::! 

I· 1 t f.) t, :I •f f If I. f I 11\ .. I l~a .. ~';"'' 
""; 'II ..... ': •• 

Friday, September 20, 1974 th• observer 
15 

Three things important at ND 


(continued from page 16) 
noted Hickey,"and· this, combined with his strenghth and size makes him the complete center. He is a tremendous practice player ,giving 100 percent on the practice 
field and in the games.  Mark is a  
great competitor."  
Brenneman received  a  host of  

scholarship offers coming out of high school and he narrowed his final choice down to Notre , Dame, Maryland, Navy, Virginia Tech, and Pittsburgh. "I was looking for a university which could offer three thinlls. First, a good national 
Ice cheerleaders slate tryouts lor early next week 
Any Notre Dame or St. Mary's student interested in cheering on the 1974-75 Irish hockey team on skates and in a skirt can realize that dream. Hockey cheerleader tryouts will be held Sunday, September 22 at 5:00p.m. Figure skating experience is required. For more information '!all Bethann (6783) or Donna (1047). 
football program offering the best incollegecompetition. Secondly, a diploma which says something. Remember, I can't play football forever and I wanted a degree to be able to help me out later. Lastly, I wanted a school that wasn't too big so that Iwouldget to know peoplft in the community." The university which he found best fit the description was Notre Dame. 
Mark is beginning his fifth year of undergraduate study, with a 
major  in  management  in  the  
College  of  Business  Ad­ 
ministration.  

"A university is a place of education and learning but it .must allow the student to Witness the realistic world atmosphere within the community. In a day and age where morals and ethics bave changed, parietals are ridiculous. The Notre Dame 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


DAILY CROSSW'ORD PUZZLE 
Copr. 'i4 Gen'I Fearures Corp. 
ACROSS 51 Put in a box 1 Toque blanche 53 Enlarges (a 
wearer photograph)5 Eh? 56 Work for 9 Contradict 57 Hawaiian 
14 Traveler of a garland sort 58 Tropical tree 15 One of noble 60 Keeps (oneself)
qualities active 16 Expiate 64 Angler of sorts 17 Involved in 66 Excited: Colloq.
confusion 68 Rugged crest J9 "Upstairs, Down-69 Urban area 
stairs" roles 20 Feel indignant21 European apple 
tree 23 Allow 24 "Them as has 
_, 
26 Adjective for 
the moon 28 Trained 32 Reward: Poet 33 Eureka! 34 Title for Haile 
Selassie 36 Detecting device 39 Cooking fat 41 Challenges43 In -parentis44 Kostelanetz 46 Musical rounds 48 "-stole my
heart ..." 49 Curved 70 Matador's foe 71 -Cup Match, 
in golf72 Copied73 Track of a deer 
DOWN 1 Dear:,Fr. 2 Place on the 
range3 Refiuxes 4 Renounce 5 Pared, as wood 6 Queen of the 
underworld 
18 Hamburger
garnish22 Edge25 Smoke: Var. 27 Meat for cutlets 28 Hall in a casa 29 Fictional sleuth 30 Tough: Colloq.31 Breed of large
red hogs35 Bristles, in 
botany37 Wish ardently38 Land measure 40 Sketched 42 Spanish dance 45 One who 
guarantees47 Guitar sound 
50 Male sheep 52 Beginnings53 Misty, as the 
eyes54 Suspicious:Slang55 Macaroni, for one 59 Finish 

7 Metric measures 61 Graven image 8 Commotions 62 Combining form 9 Rose for a continent 
10 Greek letter 63 Patch 
11 Condensed 

12 Word with hand 65 French season or foot 67 Relative of 50 13 Irascible Down 
community has to adapt to the people it's serving and change with the times. Instead of worrying about parietals the university 
should oe more concerned with the student's growth as an individual within society. 
'Another thing l'd'\like to see is a better and more efficient com­munication process between .the students and the administration. To make communication wor­thwhile the ideas from the students should not be bypassed but listened to and reviewed. The 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
bleacher 277-001.C after 7 
Electrovoice-18 woofer, 5" frequency, 
portable Avacado $90.00. Call 
for Nor. 
Call 233· as soon as Call for Pitt 
GA tiY. for 
Call Terry 
Con. break. Will Call Bill Will Call Mark, 
GA tlx for 
Call Fred 
Call 

student body's voice should be just as highly regarded as the alumni's 
voice  in  terms  of  policies  and  
decisionmaking."  
Mark  is  an  articulate,  per­ 

sonable fellow with a college grade point just below the Dean's List who betrays the common label of "monster" or "no-nothing" that is often attached to football lineman. 
Mark has enough credits . to graduate in December and his future plans call for either graduate school or the right job offer. That right job offer could be pro ball. "If I remain healthy, if the money 
is right, and if I still love the game after this season would determine whether I go pro or not," concluded Brenneman. 
If his college career is any in­dication, then the future looks bright for Mark Brenneman. As Coach Hickey put it, "He is super with people, likes to talk and has a great love for life. Not just a football player but the complete Notre Dame man." 

Needed: 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Call Marianne 52.C7. 
Help wanted: Construction Laborers. $2.50 hr. min. 8-5 Mon. Sat. Partime or fulltlme. Apply in person. Fat Wally's Electric Beer ZJoint. 2046 S. Bend Ave. 
Need 1 Student or GA ticket for Purdue desperately. Will pay !. Call Paul 3178. 
Wanted: From 1 to 10 tickets for Purdue game. Call Joe at 289-3751. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost--1 gold-filled cross pen on shuttle bus Fri. evening, Sept. 13. Has name engraved on barrel. 
Reward. John, 3540. 
Lost: Book titled "LePetomane." 
Biography of worlds greatest tarter. C.all Ace 1806. 
Lost: Schwinn 10 speed. Reward if found. Call 1694. 
Lost: Litronix Calculator in O'Shag, room 116. Reward of. fered. Call 369L after 10 p.m. Kevin. 
Lost: silver woman s wristwatch Saturday night in the vicinity of Flanner Hall. Reward. Call 4238. 
Lost: NO class ring. Gold with inscription D.J. B. Call Dennis, 282-1791. 
Lost: pair of brown glasses somewhere between Turtle Cre:l!. and Marquette. phone: 277-0830. 
Lost in O'Shag piano room-·H.S. ring. Gold, initials A.J.G. Call 8627. 
FOR RENT 

1 or 2 singles off campus. 1021 Demaude Ave. $55 mo. total. 1 
'lock from grocery. laundry, IaI 'rY. Call 232-2773. 
NOTICES 

Going to Northwestern Sat? Stay overnight and see Joe Willie and the Jets vs. Bears. 3 tix for sale.. 1108. 
ND-SMC Council for the Retarded Volunteers Farm Trip this Sat., 9 
a.m.. 3 p.m. more info--Call Kevin 289-3408. 
Help Wanted: 2 waiters--must be 
21. Football weekends. Sweeney-s Shammrock, 233-4703. 
If you have love to give and need extra money..s. Bend Nursery Home has openings for part time aides and orderlies. 11:00 p.m. to 7:30a.m. three nights per week. 232-4486 for interview or stop at S. Bend Nursery Home, 328 Notre 
Dame. 

Sun flower music ShoP--We buy old 
guitars, banlos, mandolins, also do 
custom building and epalr. 25 per 
cent off on strings, capos, etc. , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ''·'·Visit us at 632 N.· ..ortage,'SOuth 
Bend. Phone: 218-5485. 
'·'·' 
Stanford's trip to Northwestern will leave the parking Lot behind Stanford at 9 a.m. Ticket distribution will begin at 8:30 
SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE FROM 12:15 -5:00 MWF, AND 11:00 -1:00 & 2:30 -5:00 TT. 
TALISMAN NOW AVAiLABLE FOR DANCES, CONCERTS, PARTIES, AND PRE-GAME PERFORMANCES. FOR IN­FORMATIQ,,N, CALL 272-9895. 
In Pirg Office hours: 1 . 3 p.m. Student Government Offices, 2nd floor LaFortune, ph. 7668 or 6413, ext. 6. 
24 Hour TV Service 7 days a week. Sundays and Holidays. Color TV $60.00 and up stereos, $50.00 and up. Western Electronics 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955. 
Now at Jennifer•s--119 Colfax Shirts for men--$9 -$17 India im­ports. 
Tree Polishlimbo Lessons: call TERRY MORACZEWSKI at 1771. Guaranteed not to get your hands wet. 
Money? Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFortune--daiiY··ll: 15 . 12:15. 
Two-family garage Sale sept. 20, 21,22. Fri: lp.m...?;Sat.10-?; Sun. 10 · ?. Electric r<~nge, elec. sweepers, regular t•res, snow tires, old trunks, packing and steamer, elec. ap,:.liance, trash cans, 26" boy's bike, games, men, women & chH1ren•s clothing. Misc. items. 19141 Wedgewood Dr. and 19131 We:dgewood Dr. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Sally D.--Happy 18th. 
Alumni Bill. 
Happy Half Birthday to Susan' Darin. On Sept. 22. In six months you'll be legal. 
To the Roman Pontiff..The Vatican is surrounded by 1 million soldiers. Fly the white flag over Moreau or die! AntiChristal Forces 
Cannon, Thank you, Pat 
Dear Miss M, One week i!90·· tonight!!! Have a super weekend. Forever, The Giver of BO<YJee 
Tricia, Happy Birthday from the Wierdo Bros., E.B. & J.B. 
Greg, Birthy Hapdi!'f I "if itwasn't so over-used I wo Jid say mellow. guess I would sl\y "live"" 
Will J. O'Reilly report to the field and support the Team. 1E will win with a bang. The gang. 
If your sister used to call you a mars'lmellow, You're killing me softly with your silence. 

• 
----~-­

~ ~~--~ 
Irish back in action. face 'Cats 

by Greg Corgan man will get the call at the left "Right now inexperience is theSports Editor halfback position. Kornman is no big problem with our deep backs," 

Both Ara-Parseghian of Notre rookie having seen plenty of noted Parseghian. "We still don't Dame and Johnny Pont of Nor­playing time last season and his 9.9 know how they'll react against a thwestern might admit surprise speed in the hundred leaves the good passing team. I think we can when asked about their respective Irish backfield in good shape. play good defense against the teams' opening games of the Joining the 6-0, 195 pound Korn­running game but you have to be season. man will be dependable Wayne able to stop a team from scoring on 
Parseghian was well-pleased "The Train" Bullock at fulback, big plays through the air. We'll get and mildly surprised as the Irish and either Samuel or senior Ron a better test against Northwestern methodically destroyed Georgia Goodman at the other halfback. and Mitch Anderson." Tech 31-7 last week. Notre Dame Senior quarterback Tom Clements 
Anderson is bothered by a sore
amassed 441 total offensive yards will again guide the Irish offense. 
while allowing Tech a mere 179 "Art Best will definitely be out left shoulder but still is slated to including only 28 in the second half. with a fractured jaw," said Par­start. According to John Pont For the first game of the season, seghian, "and AI Samuel is a Anderson's performance against 
Michigan should have been even

Parseghian was delighted. possible starter. We have Russ Pont, on the other hand, ex­Kornman who has played well all better. perienced shock and disap­fall and Ron Goodman, but the loss 
"He should have been 30 of 36," 

pointment as his favored Wildcats of Best and Samuel means we'll 
said Pont. "He wasn't throwing

were drubbed by Michigan State have to rely more on Clements, 
well, he was throwing behind

41-7. The Wildcats' talented passer Bullock and Demmerle." 
receivers."

Mitch Anderson connected on 20 of Demmerle is split end Pete 
The Irish are hoping Anderson

36 passes but for only 159 yards, Demmerle the Irish leading pass 
won't even have time to set up.

and the secondary allowed MSU's receiver last season, as well as in 
Ends Steve Niehaus and Jim Stock

Charley Baggett to complete two this year's opener against Georgia 
and tackles Mike Fanning and

long touchdown passes. Tech. Behind Demmerle is fresh­
Kevin Nosbusch kept the Wildcats' 

"I was embarrassed," said Pont, man Ken McAfee who's replacing 
quarterback on the seat of his If the Irish have their way the scene will look somewhat familiar
"and last Sunday after the game I the injured Kevin Doherty. 
pants last year and they're hoping tomorrow. Here Steve Niehaus puts pressure on Mitch, Anderson. 
Jet the team know it." 

for a repeat performance prefer anybody to Notre Dame. claw, and so they still beat yo~ by
Unfortunately for Ara, whose The rest of the offensive line 
tomorrow. "OK "he said "so you figure we 20 points. At least that's 20 PQmtslr'sh are ranked No. 1, and for­remains intact with Robin Weber 
' ' l " 

got a one in one hundred chance of better than ast year.
tunately for Pont there are still ten at tight end, Steve Sylvester and Unfortunately Anderson doesn't winning. What I tell them is to go Hopefully Jo~n won't be the onegames left to be played and for Steve Neece at the tackles, Gerry have much of a running attack to out there and fight and scratch and who's surprised this time.
both teams the next one is DiNardo and AI ·Wujciak·. at the keep the Irish front four honest. tomorrow at Dyche Stadium in guards and Mark Brenneman at NU's top runner Grag Boykin is out 
Greg Corgan:====:====================:=================;=;=;=~=~=================================:=====================
Evanston, Illinois. center. with an ankle injury and Jim 
Notre Dame and Northwestern Perhaps Parseghian's biggest Pooler will take his place at meet for the 41st time tomorrow in worry is in the secondary where a tailback. Junior Rich Boothe and a series inaugurated in 1889. The young, untested (Georgia Tech senior Jim Trimble will be in the Irish hold the edge in the series 31-7 threw only five times) backfield other two running back slots. 
The Irish Eye

with two games ending in scoreless must go against NU's two-time Big When asked about his running ties. Ten passing leader, senior Mitch game, Pont was distraught. "We For Parseghian it's all Anderson. can't even break off a long run meaningless history however, for Despite Anderson's "off week" against ourselves." 
injuries and inexperience will last Saturday, he could give the H anyone knows Ara Parseghian ::===============================:======================·· ·========~=========::::=::::============Football picksmake Saturday's game a crucial Irish fits. He has capable and his coaching philosophy it's Week number tw,.. . <he college football season may be the bme some test. In the offensive backfield receivers in tight end Scott Johnny Pont. Pont was a star "sleeping giant:. drise. Last Saturday the "big shots" had some scares 
both starters Art Best and AI Yelvington, who caught eight halfback under Ara for two years but only Southern California suffered any real damage. Samuel are nagged with ailments. passes against the Spartans, and at Miami of Ohio and in 1953 ac­Alabama held off a stubborn Maryland eleven 21-16while Oklahoma had Best is suffering from a broken jaw speedy split end Bill Stevens. cepted the freshman coaching trouble with Baylor. Michigan didn't exactly breeze by Iowa and Ohio and will miss tomorrow's contest The Irish secondary of senior position at Miami under Par­State didn't even get a chance to usetheirsecond-teamers against Min­with the Wildcats while Samuel is Reggie ~Barnett., junior Randy seghian. He later succeded Ara as nesota. nursing a broken thumb. AI has Payne, sophomore John head coach upon the latter's move Unfortunately for those teams who must face these PQWerhouses this been practicing all week with a Dubenetzky, and freshman Randy to Northwestern in 1956. Now Saturday, "Bear' Bryant, Bo Schembechler and Woody Hayes are out to protective cast and may see ac­Harrison played well against the eighteen years later they face each regain"'lost" reputations. The Sooners and the.. Trojans are off this week tion. With Best out and Samuel Yellow Jackets, but Parseghian is other for the second time (last year and Bryant's game against Southern Mississippi is close to a joke. 
questionable, junior Russ Korn-a little bit concerned this week. ND won 44-0) and Pont would This weeks picks : Colorado at Michigan: Colorado comes to Ann Arbor hurting after LSU made mince meat out of them Michigan is home for the second straight week and a~~e looking to impress the partisan crowd. The Buf­
faloes would be luckier if they were extinct. Michigan by16. 
Oregon State at Ohio State: The Bucks lost some votes in the AP poll this week. They should get them back at the Beaver expense. OSU by 24. 
Brenneman comes backI 
Indiana at Arizona: The Hoosiers face foe number two on their genuinely tough '74 schedule. Illinois blanked them last week and Arizona is better than the Fightin' Illini so look for the Wildcats. 
.... By Frank Coughlin Hickey of the Notre Dame for block completed, and 2 for TCU at Arizona State: Texas Christian is mediocre. Arizona State is coaching staff, who works with the exceptional block) and Bren­good. The game is at Tempe and the Sun Devils should delight their home 
and makes the most of it 
Before Irish quarterback Tom centers, saw the comeback drive neman's final score was in the town fans.
Clements dazzles the crowd with displayed by the York, Penn­range of 90 per cent. 
Oklahoma State at Arkansas: The Porkers are sky high after their win some fancy footwork or hurls a sylvania, native:. 

That's a remarkable per­over SC last week. Oklahoma State clobbered Wichita State but that's notperfect spiral to one of his "It has been a thrilling ex­formance when one considers that saying much. It should be a good game but look for the Cowboys to come 
receivers, he must first get the perience for me to work with a center, unlike a tackle or guard out of it hurtin' buckaroos.ball. The man who handles this Mark. In his situation something who has the time before the snap to Pittsburgh at Georgia Tech: The Panthers and the Yellow Jackets willassignment, as he did all of last he loved had been taken away from ready himself for his blocking make a lot of noise and raise a little dust(not too much on artificial turf), 
season's drive to the national 

him asnd he was forced to come to pattern, must exchange the ball and when things clear Pepper Rodgers will have Tech on top, maybe.championship, is Irish center the ret~n_<Lion that he might never and then react fast enough to carry This is a tough one but look for Georgia Tech. Mark Brenneman. play again. But Mark had faith in through his blocking assignment. Miami at Houston: The Cougars are·1-lwhile this is Miami's opening
Prior to the 1972-73 football God and in himself. Other people Only once (the Purdue Game), game.Hurricanes arehealthy, but apparently Bill Yeoman has fixed the 
season Breenneman suffered a 

during all of last year's tense bugs in Houston's attack. Houston by 7.
back injury when hit in a pre­moments was there a fumble on the Kansas at Tennessee: The Vols settled for a tie against UCLA although

season workout by one of the Irish 
exchange between Brenneman and this is atypical of Bill Battle. There won't by any ties in Knoxville this
linebackers. The ailment 

Clements. Brenneman did a week and the Jayhawks will find out why.
prevented him from seeing any superb job on Miami's All­Texas A&M at LSU: It'sdangerousfor an Aggie to venture anywhere,

action at all with the squad that American noseguard Tony much less Tiger country. Baton Rouge is definitely cat-country and year. The full recovery of his back Christian and Coach Hickey called Charlie McLendon is ready for the kill. The Texas A&M Aggies aredemanded time and patience and his performance in the Sugar highly touted this season and deservedly so, but LSU is better. Louisiana no physical contact. Coach Bill Bowl, where Alabama utilized two State by 10. 
noseguards throughout the game, 

Notre Dame at Northwestern: If NU's Mitch Anderson can remain. 
"outstanding." 

perpendicular to the ground the Irish could have their hands full. At any 
Jayvees face 
When asked about repeating last rate, Clements, Bullock and Demmerle will be too much for the Wildcat year's feat Breneman said, "Well "D" and Anderson will most likely remain parallel to the ground. Irish so many things go into making the by 20. 
national champion. To repeat you "''Syracuse 1\T Michigan State: The Spartans are off and running, and, have to conquer the same hurdles oddly enough, passing. Syracuse is brilliantly inconsistent and should The first Notre Dame JV football -but now you have teams which are have no trouble losing. game of the season will be played itching to get you becaue you are 
UMSunday 
Mark Brenneman

Sunday afternoon against the the national champions. As Coach Illinois at Stanford: The Cardinals almost dumped Penn State and they University of Michigan with the same difficulties might Parseghian says:Ail a team has to looked good losing. Bob Blackman has a pretty fair group of football Wolverines. Game time is 1:30 and not have come back. Even though do is to beat Notre Dame to con­players at Illinois but at Palo Alto Stanford should be the boss. 
he couldn't participate he was out sider the year a success, even if Wyoming at Texas: Darrel Royal could use his prep squad against the 
it will be played on the Astro-turf 
there every day in ·sweats, running you loose all their other games." Cowboys and still win.
field behind the ACC. 
to keep his body in shape. He was Coach Hickey, who along of­Maryland at Florida: The Terrapins will even their record at 1-l with a Sunday's ball game will be the on tip of every practice session, fensive line coaches Brian Boulac win here. Florida beat California but both teams should own a piece of first opPQrtunity for the rest of the 
learning constntly." The next time and 'Wally Moore, helped Mark the bottom ten. Maryland by 12.
freshmen to see some action and a around he was ready and eager. PQiish and improve his game after Upset of the week:. Wisconsin over Nebraska:fhis is a long shot to put good chance for coach Denny The next time around was the his injury. But with Brenneman's it mildly. The Badgers Bill Marek is class material and at homeMurphy to see his prep squad 
national championship and the mental attitude and physical tools Wisconsin should be even tougher. Nebraska may be a little overcon­perform. The JV's will only play unheralded lsrenneman was a vital it was not uphill work. , fident after they breezed by the lame Ducks of Oregon 61-7last Saturday, 
• three games this season the others factor in the team's success. "Mark is a smartfootball player, but without a doubt they are awesome. Still, a Wisconsin win is feasible; 
being with Purdue and Michigan Offensive linemen are graded for look for it tomorrow. away. each ~arne (o for missed block, 1 (continued on page 15) Last weeks resultsll of 15, 74 per cent. 





