OD The Inside 
Tuition increase reactions . . . page 3 

"Emma's" opens 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 88 Wednesday, February 27, 1974 
SBP, SLC elections today 
by David Kaminski and Gary Allietta Staff Reporters 

Today the preliminary election for SBP and the final election for SLC seats are being held. 
The top two, or possibly three, vote-getting tickets will advance to the finals on Friday, March 1. No write­ins or blank ballots will be tabulated. 
Sor.'e students r.'ay have already voted but for those who have not, The Observer offers a capsule summary (•f each SBP ticket. 
Villarosa-Zimsky 

Steve Villarosa and Bill Zimsky called for united student action in their campaign for SBP. "There is not one ;>lace in this university where the students are treated like adults," Villarosa said. 
The candidates proposed an off-campus food co-op. They urged the students in the halls to take more initiative to improve the social life. They also criticized the Adr.1inistration for not being sensitive toward students. 
Villarosa and Zimsky were hampered in early car.,paigning when signs announcing their appearance in Zahr.' and Sorin Halls were torn down prior to-their arrival. 
Capp-Ericksen 

Ray Capp and Greg Ericksen ran what:they called a service-ol'iented program. Their major platform proposals dealt with increased service to the off­campus student and the controversial winter sports center in Stepan Center. 
The candidates proposed the formation of six off­car.,pus districts with commissioners who would r.1ainly aid in gathering information on student housing. They also proposed a meat co-op and an off­car.,pus shuttle service. 
Several candidates charged that for various reasons the Stepan sports center guaranteed by Capp and Ericksen was unfeasible. However, The Observer checked Tuesday and di_scovered that many of the objections were unfounded(see story below). 
McLa ughlin-Fianagan 
Pat McLaughlin and Frank Flanagan made dealing with the adr.1inistration the main thrust of .the1r car.1paign. They said they didn't want-to make a lot of car.1paign prornises they wouldn't be sure they could keep until they were in office. 
McLaughlin and Flanagan called for a revision of the judicial code Peans of SLC action. They criticized Fr. Hesburgh's ability to review any judicial case regardless of the results of prior judicial action. 
McLaughlin and Flanagan promised to bring issues to the Administration's appropriate committee with strong argument, reason and tact. 
Shankel-McErlean 
Steve Shankel and Bill McErlean proposed "ac­countability sessions" where they could determine student desires and work on those desires from a position of strength. The candidates claimed they researched nearly every past and present student pmposal in preparation for their campaign. 
Based on t'helr research, the candidates claimed that Pany of the Capp-Ericksen proposals were based on "bad information." In particular, they criticized-the Capp-Ericksen plans for Stepan Center basketball and wholesale beef purchases for the off-campus student. 
Shankel and McErlean called for the abolition oHhe Student Union Board of Directors, calling them "one weak link in the whole chain." 
Oberhardt-Collins 
The return of students' rights was the basic point of the Oberhardt platform. In addition, he advocated judicial changes and better conditions for the off­campus student. 
"I'rn tired of being treated like a child in a sand box " he comr.1ented in Sorin Monday night. Earlier in Mm:rissey he stated that 10 of n1y 17 student rights were violated" by Notre Dame's judicial system. 
Oberhardt's off-campus plans include landlord evaluation committees, an information office, and a food co-op. "The University owes some cooperation since it forces students off-campus," he summed up. 
Pidnight close of the campaign.
Gahagan-O'Connell 
Tom~ Porter, Grace Hall president and author ofthe More student student representation with a poll that included the hall's 20 section leaders, four
fact­comr.,issioners, the secretary-treasurer and himself,finding subcomr-1ittee is necessary to implement any defended the large sign posted on the Grace Bulletinother changes, asserted Mike Gahagan. 
Board announcing the endorsement as "not cam­"Students are looking at-the little things and missing paigning" but r.1erely a publicatitm of the Council'sthe big picture," he noted at Morrissey Monday. In 
wishes.
stead of shooting for smaller goals, students should While Porter claimed to have told every sectionvote for 50 per cent representation on campus councils, 
then everything else will come ex­planned to "publish the poll on theieader poUed thaemore easily, he bulletin board," both Wilson and Fiorella said thatplained. 
sor.1e section leaders weren't aware that Porter wasVP candidate Frank O'Connell added .that LaFor­questioning them as part of a 'poll. They agreed withtune is a disgrace and should be renovated by next fall. 
both Sullivan and Porter that there was no"The Adr.,inistration needs to be sensitized about the colloboration between the president and the candidate off-car.1pus situation," he added. 
receiving the endorsement, and said that -they had sought Election Chairman Jerry Samaniago'sRahiii-Wordal assistance in removing the sign. Shortly after 1:30 a.r.1., Wilson announced that the sign would beEd Rahill felt that action toward the Administration, 
removed.
rather than reaction to its policies, is a necessity of The results of the poll were 23-2 in favor ofStudent Government. 
Sullivan with one abstention.
"In order to implement this innovative and aggressive attitude, I recommend a coordinator of 
Senior Class Fellow
student government activities," he said in Standord on Saturday. 
Seniors will also vote for the 1974 Senior Class Fellov.
Rahill also expressed a need to overcome tt:e social during balloting today. On the special Senior Classpa1·alysis at Notre Dame. "There will be an effort-to Fellow ballot, seniors will make two choices from-theforr.1 social centers in each hall," he promised. 
following list of nominated candidates: The ticket also calls for a revision ofthe judicial code Kurt Vunnegut Woody Allenand an all-campus news service. 
Theodore Hesburgh Elliot Richardson Judge John Sirica Howard CosellWiniarczyk-Famula Rusty Rhodes Cissy Fahrenthold "Groucho" Marx Ara ParseghianRevision of the SLC code was the main thrust of:the Carlo Gambino Frank ZappaWiniarczyk-Famula campaign. Rules and regulations MuhamPed Ali William F. Buckley, Jr.
are not realistic for this <;ampus in the '70S, their William Ruckelshaus Ft·ancis J. O'Malleyplatform stated. 
"Instead of begging Macheca for a party,-the Richard Daley students could sign a contract for the rector and be Ballotingheld accountable for any damage," the platform of­Balloting for SBP, SBVP, SLC representatives and fered. Senior Class Fellow will take place today for on­
The two also seek to clarify specific penalties. "If a campus students in their halls from 11:30a.m; to 1 p.m. 
student knows his rights, he has a better chance and and gain from 5 p.m. to 6:30p.m. Off-campus students knows how to respond," said Winiarczyk. will vote at the off-campus office in the basement of La'Fortune Student Center from 11 a.nL to 4 p.m. Late SLC Endorsement Students are asked to call the Student Government Office to report any irregularities in the balloting.
The Grace Hall Council endorsed: section-leader Denis Sullivan, for the SLC seat in the fourth district. Both of Sullivan's opponents, Joe Fiorella and Chuck (Editor's Note: The placement of candidates in this Wilson, complained of the rnove in light of the Tuesday article was determined by lottery. l 


Capp.-Erickson cleared of charges 
by AI Rutherford this they derived $44,000. I had no "Back in early February, Ray ­Staff Reporter idea that it was political issue." 
Capp and Greg Ericksen came to
In his appearance at the 
me with the idea of using Stepan Investigation yesterday af­Morrisey forum Sunday night, SBP Center, when it was available, asternoon revealed that many of candidate Pat McLaughlin had basketball courts. · The wholethe charges leveled by other stated that the University Con­proposal was simply to installcandidates against a proposal by servation Committee had been baskets and paint lines on thethe Ray Capp-Greg Ericksen investigating the possibility of cement floor. The idea was a goodticket were proven to be false. closing down Stepan Center during one and it was brought before theCentral in the controversy is a the winter months to conserve heat Student Affairs Central StaffCapp-Ericksen proposal to and electricity. 
where it was OK'd.
establish basketball courts in When Father James Flanigan, "The task is not an inexpensiveStepan Center, a program which president of student affairs and . one but neither is it $44,000. TheCapp claimed, "is only a minor chairman of the CoJlservation baskets would probably be ordered part" of their campaign. Committee, was contacted by the through the Athletic Department. 
Ed Rahill, SBP hopeful, stated Observer, he replied, "The idea of I haven't really had a chance toSunday night that he had talked to shutting down Stepan Center look into it but plans are beingthe chairman of the Architecture during the winter months has formulated," he said.
Department and the cost would be never come up during the Philip Faccenda, vice-presidentin excess of $44,000. meetings." · for student affairs, verified Capp's According to Ambrose Pat McLaughlin contacted the statements that he had agreed toRichardson, chairman of the Observer Monday night and in­the proposal and that it had passed 
Architecture Department, the only formed them that he planned to .'But as
the Central Staff. ofprice quoted was a figure off the present a formal apology to Ray yet," Faccenda stated, "it still has top of his (Richardson's( head. Capp at the Walsh forum. 
to pass the University Officers and "One of my students asked about "We are sorry that we misin­the Business Mfairs Staff."
the problem involved in changing terpreted what the Student Mfairs He continued, "It seems like a
Stepan to basketball courts," Office had told us," McLaughlin but is nothing
good idea thereRichardson stated. stated. "Our other facts stand for definite yet."
He continued, "I told the student themselves." 
Left unverified were candidatethat it would probably have to be Father David Schlaver, Director assertions that the proposal would resurfaced and the cost would be a of Student Activities explained the cause insurance problems in thecouple of dollars per foot. From Stepan Basketball proposal in this building for the university.
way: 
• 
~ 
I 
~ ~ 
L ­
-.... ·'"' 
Wednesday, February 27, 1974
1. the observer 
warld 
briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI) Stations will today begin receiving emergency federal gasoline allocations, easing end-of-the-month crunch. New York's alternate day system at the gas pumps will become mandatory, shortening the length of waiting lines. TWA will now be able to restore 37 daily flights due to increased fuel supplies. 
WOUNDED KNEE, S.D. <UPil Today is the first anniversary of the 71-day armed takeover at Wounded Knee, but no celebration is planned. Residents fear another confrontation like the one that left this historic hamlet in shambles and divided the Indian population. 
an campus l:aday 
3:00 pm meeting college of ar1's and letters college council, room 202, cce 
3;30 pm colloquium "solar thermal energy research," by dr. james kohn, chemical engineering dept., sponsored by the dept. of aerospace and mechanical engineering, room 303, eng. 
4:30 pm reilly lecture "automated speec­1'rophotome1'ry," by prof. v. malmstadt, room 123, nieuwland 
7: ?0 pm sectionals indiana high school athletic assoc. sectionals, ace. 
7:00pm film "the learning tree,'' sponsored by the black studies program, eng. aud. 
7:30 pm lecture "legal and ethical implications of behavioral analysis," by dr. thomas whitman and dr. d.c. anderson, nd, as part of the american scene series, carroll hall. 
7:30pm lecture "a ufo experience," by dr. j. allen hyneck, sponsored by studnet union academic commission, arch. aud. free 
8:00pm lecture "right to life," by keith montgomery and therese bush, bp rec room 9i,_30 pm lecmass special ash wednesday mass and service , bulla shed 
6:30 pm meeting sailing club room 204, eng. 
7:30 pm talk fr. burtchaell chapel, pangborn 


Baltic Society schedules Gary Parr, lyric tenor 
by Tom Brennan! British and American songs. In Staff Reporter addition, he will sing a few Irish and Baltic songs.
The University of Notre Dame According to Gus Stungyns,Baltic Society presents Gary Parr, · President of the Baltic society,lyric tenor, in recital Thursday at I admission is free, both to students8: 15 in the Memorial Library 
and the public.
Auditorium The Baltic Society, in its second 
year of operation, hopes to bring The Observer is published daily
during the college semester exceptabout political awareness and vacations by the students of the cultural aspects of the three Baltic University of Notre Dame and St. countries of Estonia, Latvia, and Mary's College. Subscriptions 
. h . may be purchased for sa perLit uama. semester ($14 per year> from The Parr, lyric tenor, will present Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Italian songs and arias, three Indiana 46556. Second class Faure songs in French, Richard postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556 
Strauss selections, an~d~:_ea~r~l~y~~===·=========:! Now Renting
c 
A one and two bedroom furnished apatments
M 
p 
VISIT OUR REPRESENTATIVE 
IN THE OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF THEu LAFORTUNE STUDENT CEN­s TER. 
WEDNESDAY 1-5 THURSDAY 1-5 FRIDAY 1-5 
I 
v OR CALL 232-5853 CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT COMPANY 
E "APARTMENTS WITH THE .~~QE~T. ,N..MIND" 
•. 
w . 
... " ..."1 1 " ' .. 'II " •• " ... ' ('. 
National Coordinating Committee for · Justice Under Law
UFO expert 
PRISON REFORl\1 BE~EFIT 
to speak here CONCERT 
'' irh 
One of the nation's foremost authorities on unidentified flying objects <UFO'sl, Dr. J. Allen 


JOHN
Hynek of Northwestern Univer­sity, will deliver a public lecture on the phenomena at 7:30p.m. tonight in the Architecture Auditorium. 


DENVER 
.tnd

Since its founding Hynek as been the official astronomical con­
Nittv Grittv Dirt Band

sultant to the U.S. Air Force's . . "Project Blue Book," the official 
-STEVE (~0(101\'IA ~ 

clearinghouse for all UFO reports. He also serves as associate 
Bill ()LIVER S'\vofford

director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge and headed its NASA­MONDAY sponsored Sputnik Tracking Program. MARCH 4th 8:00 P.M. 
The chairman of Northwestern's department of astronomy, Hynek 
NOTRE DAME 

is the author of "The UFO Ex­
perience: A Scientifiic Inquiry," a 
Athletic & Convocation Center 

newly published book documenting 
Ticket Prices: Loge Main Floor Platform $6.50 
and analyzing every UFO sighting 
Lower Arena $5.50 Bleachers $3.50

in the U.S. and abroad. He in­
Tickets on sale NOW at ACC Ticket Office and
terviewed the two Mississsippi 
men who last fall reported being 
Student Union Ticket Office. 

taken abroad a UFO by "funny looking" creatures. Later he said they "undoubtably had a very real and frightening experience and 


If you compare,

should not be ridiculed." 
The author-professor has organized the Center for UFO 
you'll select ltna... studies which will begin the first serious, systematic and scientific 
investigation of the phenomenon. 
If you don't compare,

Air Force and other studies, he 
says, were carried out with 
"scientific blinders and precon­
don't say we didn't warn you!
ceived notions." He added that 
they never looked at the UFO 
JIM CAMPBELL 

sightings because they think it is 
120 W. LaSalle Street 

silliness." 
Suite 1001

Hynek's talk is sponsored by the 
South Bend, Indiana

Student Union Activities Com­
233-8207 

Jf§uP.i
mission and is open to the public 
The JEtna College Plan ...

without charge. 
LIFE & CASUALTY
Life Insurance for students 

Dr. Hynek will answer questions 
afterthe lecture in the Grace pit. 
A::tna Life Insurance Com Hartford, Connecticut 


Our annual sale ends soon•..for a few more days we are offering you sensational savings on suits, sportcoats ana outercoats. . . you can choose from top quality, university-styled apparel and save. 
Reg. $20 to $30, cuffs or

ALL '~Ca. TROUSERS no cuffs, choice of plaids 

or sol1d colors 

ASK 
about our exclusive pay later plan. 

'1 • .,". \ ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
J 1 ' i"C l , ' " • 19

........ -......................................... ' ....... ' 't ... , .. '" ····4 • \t "" c -c •• 0 ....... •~ 
-~--------~------~--------------~----~ 
Wednesday, February 27, 1974 the observer 
3 

Facuity sho-ws ~nixed reactions to estimated tuition increases 
256-0111 Cards Books 1111111 mall Magazines 2340 nHr.!l.::lt! l.tnc Art SuppliesllliSh.IW,Ik.\, 111d1.111.1 46544  
flrttfont Tires GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT Now available ilt a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, BeHed, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Eledronic Department will extend the discount. Please bring your 1.0. card for iden­tification. OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 502 S. Michigan South Bend, Indiana  
~ City Center Acting Company PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 0 'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE MARCH 3-8:00 P.M.-MEASURE FOR MEASURE MARCH 4-8:00 P.M.-THREE SISTERS Tickets: $3.50--Students: $2.00--Reservations: 284-4176 9-4 Monday -Friday  
NOW RENTING ( BEgRrgO~~~~~SHEDA APARTMENTS M Featuring: p * SWIMMING POOL *COMMUNITY BUILDINGu * 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM APTS.s * AIR CONDITIONING* DISHWASHER* RANGE* REFRIGERATORv * GARBAGE DISPOSAL* TENNIS COURTI * LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS!E CALL 232-5853w FOR RENTAL INFORMATION OR VISIT: CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT COMPANY 30 12 EAST EDISON ROAD ._, ... SOUTH 'BEND •• 1 •• •  


by Katherine Lawrence Staff Reporter 
There were mixed feelings among faculty members yesterday over next year's proposed tuition increase. The increase, as reported in the Observer, is ex­pected to approximately one hundred dollars and will help pay for salary raises, supplies and repair expenses. 
Professor Lawrence Bradly, Assistant Archivist with the history department, reacted negatively to the increased tuition in the belief that students are now 
paying as much or more than they 
can afford and that high tuition will 
eventually "price out" the middle 
class student. Bradly went on to 
say that the money for pay in­
creases should come from other 
sources, such as cutbacks in ad­
ministration expenses. 
Professor Thomas Werge of the 
English department had this 
statement: 'The University, like 
all individuals and institutions, is 
feeling the economic crunch. But 
unless rising tuition costs stop at 
some point this place and other 
universities will price themselves 
beyond the reach of all but the very 
wealthy.  That  would  be  un­ 
conscionable and a tragedy.  
Dennis  Dugan,  Chairman  and  
Associate  Professor  of  the  

economics department, viewed the tuition hike differently in that he approved of the students covering the pay hike, if indeed the money is going to go the faculty. He men­tioned some previous tuition in­creases that never reached the faculty and speculated on whether or not this money would be used as indicated. Professor Dugan said he sympathizes with the students but the faculty salaries are part of the education they're paying for. 
Another opinion came from Professor Don Linger, Chairman of the Civil Engineering depart­ment, who expressed concern over the monetary burden placed on students but voiced confidence in the administrationand their handling of funds. He did not feel that the tuition hike would show up substantially in faculty incomes next year. "Notre Dame is not top heavy in people who are paid super salaries and don't do anyting. You can't whittle down the ad­ministration," he said. Linger also commented that unless the University can come up with a 7-10 per cent cost of living increase it may lose some "awfully good men." 


Erratum 
In yesterday's article on "SLC Candidates Views" John Farrell was misquoted as saying, "A member should be responsible to the students against the Ad­ministration, with an eye to the Administration, too. Also only the student body and faculty should have had a vote on the proposed calendar next year." 
The quote should have read: "A member should be responsible to the students in confronting the administration, also having a respect for the administration's views. Also the students, faculty, and administration should have had a vote on the proposed calendar." 




0-C assistance offered 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 
Ed Byrne and Stan Cardenas explained the results of their recent off-campus poll of student living conditions to the Hall Presidents Council last night. 
According to Byrne, the poll shows that the students feel the University is lacking in con­sideration for the situation of the o­c student and he asked for a statement of assistance from the HPC in an attempt to make these sentiments known to the Ad­ministration. 
Byrne pointed out several examples of areas where help from the University would aid the situation of the o-c student greatly. The meal ticket price in the dining halls, is even more expensive per week than the high cost of food spent by the average o-c student. Byrne felt that the University could do more to help students in this area. 
Byrne pointed to several Universities which have established food co-op programs operating at minimal profit, which he felt would be the greatest help Notre Dame could offer to those students forced off-campus. He also noted that help by the University in rent control of 

Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 

apartment complexes such as Campus View is needed. Byrne stated that Campus View was supposed to be competitive with ND Apartments but it really isn't much cheaper. 
Byrne claimed that, according to his poll, there was a need for a University black list of landlords as well as a more extensive housing list. He claimed this was presently impossible because Father Shilts' office was grossly 
undermann~d. 
The HPC agreed to send a letter of support for the findings of the poll to Dr. Faccenda, the vice president for student affairs. 
Stan Cardenas also announced 
some money saving ideas drawn 
from the poll for those who will be 
living off campus. Cardenas ad­
vised students to watch for ad­
vertised sales and use as many 
newspaper coupons as possible. 
He also pointed out that students 
can qualify for food stamps, which 
helps save money on food. Using less heat and light, showering at the Rock or ACCand buying meats in quantity were also suggested. 



Jim Roe announced that Student Government will begin a program of recycling on April 1st, the proceeds of which will go to Goodwill Industries. Roe said the guidelines for the program weren't established yet except that a great deal of the work in the program would have to be taken on by the individual halls. 
Rich O'Connor, the president of Pangborn, announced that Father Burtchaell would given an in­formallecture Wednesday night in Pangborn at 7:30. 
O'Connor also announced that the Birch Bayh Re-election Committee was starting a student voter registration drive in an effort to give students a voice in the community where they live. Anyone interested in working on the drive or anyone having any registration questions can contact O'Connor at 8311. 




TONIGHT 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Dan Barrett Executive Editor Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715

Lee Gentine John Kloos 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661
Business Manager 

Advertising Manager
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Wednesday, February 27, 1974 
Today 
The student body of Notre Dame goes to the polls today to elect a new Student Body President and a new group of student representatives to the SLC. 
In the past two days, The Observer's Editorial Board -has published recom­mendations for these elected positions. These endorsements reflect the opinions of the members of the editorial board and serve as our recommendations. 
The board meets with all of the can­didates, in this case the meeting being held all day Sunday. From the meeting, the board then debates what we've heard and what we know of the political situation on campus. From that debate emerges our endorsement. 
This year, as in all years past, com­plaints have arisen about the fact that The Observer even endorses anyone. No complaints arise when The Observer takes sides on issues like the calendar, off campus, and all other news. The election is news like all other news. The fact that The Observer takes the responsibility of reporting the news carries with it the priveledge and the obligation of commenting on the news. Our endorsement of candidates is that comment. 
This year, The Observer has decided to endorse Ray Capp and Greg Ericksen for president and vice-president of the student body. After investigation yesterday, Capp and Ericksen have withstood the multitude of charges leveled at them Monday during the campaign. With the clearing of the charges comes the reaffirmation of The Observer's stance behind the candidacy of these two men. 
This election has distinguished itself fr­om those of the past year's alreadybecause of the quality of the field of candidates. But the problem with the campaign this year was that despite the quality-rield, the issues degenerated into 
( 


The Vote 
a discussion of basketball courts and frozen food lockers. It was disappointing to see a quality field descend to trivial discussions. 
Despite the triviality, there are many, many excellent ideas circulating in this campaign as well as the many good candidates. Whoever wins the election, it would be an absolute shame if the ideas and the personnel are not incorporated into the new administration. 
Before any of this incorporation can occur though, someone must be elected. Voting today will be at the noon hour and at dinner time. All on-campus residents can vote in their halls and off-campus ctudents can vote at the o-c office in LaFortune. Make an effort and vote today. It is an important vote and you have a quality group of candidates to pick from. The Observer contends, though, that the quality candidates not­withstanding, Ray Capp and Greg Ericksen are the best of the bunch. Vote today and vote for them. 
-The Editorial Board 
the observer 

The Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief: Jerry Lutkus Executive Editor: Dan Barrett Executive Editor: Art Ferranti Editor-elect: Tom Drape Managing Editor: Marlene Zloza News Editor: Terry Keeney Editorial Editor: Butch Ward SMC Editor: Patty Cooney Features Editor: Kathy Schwille Sports Editor: Vic Dorr Wire Editor: Ann McCarry 
Issue Staff 
Night Editor: Editor: Albert D'Antonio Assistant Night Editor: Rick Blower Layout: Suzy Augustus Sporst: Fin Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Typists: Tom Modglin, Barb Haug. John Flannigan, 
Jeff McPherson Day Editors: Jeanne Murphy and Val Zurblls Night Controller: Joe Abell (with a little help from 
Carolina) 
·---­
-· ----------------­

P-,atrick hanifin 
Never Wrong 
The University's human sexuality rule is the most ridiculous legal farce since the Tennessee Monkey Trial. Or rather it would be if it were not for the very real harm it has done and probably will do again. The harm so far is the suspension of the Dillon student for breaking a rule which did not exist. The harm ahead is more such suspensions and expulsions for breaking a rule which still does not exist. 
If the University insists on resorting to legalisms to protect private morality it should at least make those legalisms clear. But total chaos surrounds the sex rule, making any prosecution under it plainly un­just. On its face it simply says that the University thinks premarital sex is immoral. Nothing prohibits people who disagree with the University from acting on their disagreement. If you reject this simple interpretation you can choose between at least eleven more, including seven offered by members of the SLC who helped write the rule. Then the only thing clear about the rule is that it is unclear. But students are guaranteed "a clear statement of all actions or behavior t.hat shall be considered a violation of University rules" before they car. be prosecuted. Therefore the rule is either simple philosophy or void for vagueness. Either way no prosecution is must. 
It is easy enough to end this confusion. The SLC can write a new and clearer rule and Fr. Hesburgh can ratify it. But no rewrite could be retroactive. It could not apply to the Dillon case. 
Of course the Dillon student was prosecuted mainly for parietal violations, with the evidence of a violation of the sex rule thrown in to ''aggravate" them, according to Dr. Faccenda. But this "aggravation" idea itself is unjust. It is roughly like a prosecutor who does not have the evidence to prove a murder charge prosecuting the man for jaywalking and then tossing in what evidence he does have to get the jury to give the defendant life imprisonment for jaywalking. 
Further, parietals are broken only by having a "member of the opposite sex" in your room after hours. There is nothing in the rule which either states or implies that the rule is more seriously broken by what you are doing together or how long after hours you are doing it. <If all this seems like legal nitpicking I can only say that if the University insists on legalism we must ~o along for our own safety). 
The conclusion to all this is that the Dilion student was guilty of only three or four simple parietal violations for having his girl friend sta~ with him three or four nights. According to the parietals rule the violations should have been handled like any other parietals cases by the hall judicial board. Instead he wassuspendedby the University for a supposed violation of a non-existant rule twisted to aggravate a completely different rule. 
Of course mistakes happen and nothing can be done about this one now, but when the errors were brought to its attention did student affairs at least apologize'? Did it agree that the rule needed to be re­written to avoid further injustice? Hardly. Dean Macheca merely said that he would continue to prosecute anyone he could catch under the old "unwritten rule", even though he agreed that the new rule was the only one in effect. The SLC may give the rule priority attention, but not until April. 
Ifstudent affairs acts in the future as they have reacted to date they will make a farce out of the potentially excellent rules document. Its statement of commitments will become a vain propaganda blast, its carefully drawn discipline procedures hollow traps, and its proclamation of student rights a campus joke. I doubt that the ad­ministration is so blind that they would 'go on like that indefinitely. But for now the message to the student is clear: Beware--in loco parentis means "We're never wrong." 
daanesbury r:.arry trudeau 



"I knew I was nearing Notre Dame because I sow a long line of people on their knees praying, but it turned out to be on Exxon station." 
john denver and friends in a rare performance 
,-----­
The Bob Hope Benefit Special at the ACC Monday night was for the greater part of the audience a unique experience. Subjected to frequent retakes for lost camera shots and technical difficulties, the show last for four and a half hours. Yet the audience was never really bored. Hope was left often to his own devices and in his ad-libbing he was superb. With his quickly assembled show, Hope and company presented to a largely South Bend audiencethecombined talents of some of the most durable professionals in show business. 
Hope originally thought of coming to Notre Dame three months ago. In an in­terview Sunday, Hope said that his next task was "to get a list of stars that will fit this show and person and also get us a rating on television, which is the combination you want." 
Naturally, this presented some rehearsal problems. Hope said that by the time Robert Goulet flew into South Bend via charter plane Monday morning from his Las Vegas show (he flew right back after his stint that night), "We'll get everything out of the way. These people are all such pros, you know. They know the business so well, they go and do it, in a hurry." 
Juliet Prowse also in an interview Sunday began preparing for the show last week. "We didn't know what to do. Then I sat down with the choreographer Ron Field and we said, 'Well, you know it's in a stadium so let's incorporate maybe an athletic feeling. At first I thought it was going to be in the football arena. And then he said, 'Oh no, it won't be this.' Then we decided, 'Well, let's do a little bit of gymnastic type dancing combined.' So that's what we're really doing. It's a dance on parallel bars, and on trampolines, and on floor mats.'' 
Despite her diligent practice on Sunday, Miss Prowse and her two male companion dancers Monday night had to re-do the dance after the taped music and vocal fouled up lJ4 of the way through, re-do it again after a camera missed a shot, and reshoot the finale since the ring that would 
l 

the benefit of hope 
carry her above the heads of the crowd could not be lowered during the regular dance. Since this routine came in two-thirds of the way through the show some of the audience became restless, but not a few, including myself, found the production methods fascinating. Needless to say, the South African born dancer performed gracefully with speed and agility. 
Debbie Reynolds, in an interview Monday afternoon, was very conscious of the television audience. Les Brown and his Band of Renown went through her entry song a number of times because of the "40 million viewers." Consequently she was left in a spotlight in the lower arena seats that night for five minutes waiting for her en­trance as everything was set up. She did not have to retake either of her two songs. 
Both Prowse and Reynolds compared their regular acts with the Notre Dame show. Prowse said her nightclub work "was completely different. Here people come to see something that they don't always get to see. In nightclubs you're working to a drinking, eating audience. Plus today in nightclubs, now I'm talking about Vegas in particular, a tremendous amount of production is put into everyone's act. Used to be a time when you could come out and sing a song and do a dance and that was OK. But now Debbie Reynolds, and myself, and Mitzi Gaynor, and Bobbie Gentry and all of us who headline Vegas have lots of production in our shows-lot of money, costumes, dancers and singers. It's like a little show. And this is completely different because you're basically, although you're 
working to people in the arena, working to 
the millions on the camera.'' 
Reynolds had just completed her year and three months on Irene in New York (now replaced by Jane Powell). For her the Notre Dame show (Reynolds, Pride, Prowse, and Goulet had never been to the ACC before) was a break. "Broadway was hard. It's eight shows a week, you never really have any time off to breathe. But it was fun and a whole new life. It was something I always wanted to do.'' And the Bob Hope show rehearsal time-one day. That's a break? She did a magnificent job nonetheless. Even when her fur muffled her hidden microphone in her skit number with Hope and Ara Parseghian, she clowned around and even broke up Hope when, in the role of Hope's mother and sporting a phoney ski-nose, she asked him how he could stand the schnozz. 
Hope did a twenty-eight minute monologue on Notre Dame, our sports, the gas situation, and streaking. He was more candid in his interview though. His views on America are optimistic to say the least. "I get around an awful lot around this country, and I play to such big, mass audiences and I 
--------~~ ~­
--~-­
talk to so many people that I am not con­cerned about the future of our country at all. In fact, I'm doing a tribute tomorrow night about the students, students generally, you know. The fact that I'm there looking them in the eye gives me a good springboard to do a message which I think the people want and will like because it's optimistic and because I really feel that way . I meet so many young 
people and I think we're going to han~ them a world that's shabby in spots but I think we've done a pretty good job and I think they can take care of it, and it's going to be their responsibility." 
Hope's affiliation with South Bend extends way back to his vaudevillian days. "I did my first act up here in 1928. And I walked out with a brown derby and a cigar at the Palace and the audience went wild. And nobody knew why. I thought what the hell happened, my fly open or something. And they thought it was AI Smith running for president, wearing a brown derby and a cigar. And this is the only town it happened in! You know I was in Champaign and they didn't scream. At Notre Dame, they went, 'Yeaa!' " 
Hope even appeared at the old Fieldhouse. 
"And that's what built the Convocation Center" he quipped. "I said then that we had to get out of there before they let the cows back in. I didn't want them to blame the smell on me." He last appeared in November of 1970 at the ACC but not for TV. 
Hope admitted that his material has changed with the times-for the most part. "The headlines are always funny, like we're 
Wednesday1 February 271 1974 the observer 
by art ferranti 

talking about Secretariat now being the Truman Capote of the race horses. And whenever a subject comes up, you get great things about it, you know. And I said on coming here, I knew I was nearing Notre Dame because I saw a long line of people on their knees praying but it turned out to be an Exxon station." 
And as for the rest of his jokes playing 
well, even his bombs Monday night were 
resurrected by saving ad-libs. Goulet sang 
two songs from his night club number and 
performed a quick one-on-one skit with 
Hope before he jumped from the stage as an 
exit to the applause and immediately left to 
return to Las Vegas. His deep voice carried 
over Brown's accompaniment without 
drowning it out. 

What followed was a fifteen minute break 
after which Hope as a priest and Juliet 
Prowse as a nun performed a skit standing 
in line for tickets to the Hope Show and 
another wait as Hope wished to re-do part of 
their song, Prowse having departed to fix 
her habit. The skit was funny, though, as 
was that with Ara but that with Pride 
spoofing Euell Gibbons flopped. 

Pride performed a total of four songs 
assisted by four members of the Grand Old 
Opry. It was easy to see why Pride took the 
American Music Awards special award as 
the best country-western singer. A local 
singer named Tony Christie, Frank 
Pomarico, and Miss Indiana each appeared 
to help fill in production gaps. 

Obviously the best skit was with Ara. Ara 
only rehearsed with Hope and Reynolds 
Monday afternoon but he did not blow a line. 
In it he recruited Goober Finnigan (Hope). 
Most of the jokes received laughter, 
especially those concerning the name's 
pronunciation. Incidentally, the two girls in 
the skit are both from St. Mary's. 

At any rate, it you missed this show, a one 
hour edited version will air on 16 this Friday 
at seven-thirty. 

Rock stars seldom do benefits. But this Monday night four of them will be donating their time and even paying their own ex­penses to raise money for a most worth cause. John Denver, whose greatest hits album holds the number three spot in the Billboard Hot 100 this week, will be taking a day off from his cross-country tour to headline the Prison Reform Benefit concert in the Convocation Center. Also headlining will be the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, who last week drew raves at The Cellar Door in Washington, D.C. Chicagoan Steve Goodman readily agreed to perform on the bill when contacted by the show's organizers. More on the music of Denver and Goodman will appear Friday in this paper. Rounding out the attractions will be Bill "Oliver" Swofford. 
The man who put it all together is George Mische, the Executive Director of the National Coordinatinl!: Committee for Justice Under Law (NCCJL). The NCCJL is seeking to initiate programs for penal reform in this country through informed legislation. In particular, they have proposed an "Alternative to Prison" program whose main goals include technical training and resocialization. Proceeds from the concert will go to help fund this program. Both the Student Union and the Program for Non-Violence are supporting the effort and lending their manpower. 

The concert itself is being carefully planned to allow ample time for each artist. However, the highlight of the evening will be the finale which will feature the combined talents of all the musicians in a semi­planned jam session. Provision may be made for some sort of audience par­ticipation at that point. Nothing like this has ever been done at Notre Dame, so the im­pact could be incredible. 
One of the headliners will be the Nitty 
a preview by rich donovan 
Gritty Dirt Band, which has been around for a fair number of years. Their first hit was "Mr. Bojangles," probably the best version of the Jerry Jeff Walker song ever recorded. 
Since then they have gone through several personnel changes, but produced con­sistently high quality music. Their latest big album was a three record set called "Will the Circle Be Unbroken." It featured some of the finest country musicians in Nashville and is regarded as a classic work. They are currently working on a new album to be released early in the summer. 
The Dirt Band in concert is a joy to behold. Their performance centers around skillful fiddle, banjo, and guitar work augmented by a standard rock rhythm section. The music is country-rock at its tightest. Anyone who has seen the group would probably return without hesitation. The fact that they arejust part of this Prison Reform Benefit makes it all the more at­tractive. 
Opening the show on Monday will be Bill Swofford, formerly known as Oliver. Swofford became famous with "Good Morning Starshine" and "Jean," but has changed his billing to go along with his more progressive style. Playing concerts and major night clubs around the country, his basic instrumentation of Fred Rivera on bass and Chris Brooks on lead guitar and pedal steel, plus himself on rhythm guitar, has drawn standing-room -only crowds. Swofford writes much of his material now, and has recorded an album which will be released in the near future. Those who expect to hear the sweet style they remember from the Ed Sullivan Show will be disappointed. Those who expect a solid, progressive set will be_ more than pleased. 
Tickets are still available at ACC and Student Union Ticket Offices. 
<Editor's Note: part two of this preview will feature John Denver and Steve Goodman.) 
Wednesday, February 27, 1974
the observer

6 
New coffeehouse opens near ND 
by Tom Russo lives and works part time in South business in particular; this is just a few years back. to come and play unamplified Staff Reporter Bend, said he started organizing the way things have turned out." The building in which "Emma's music any evening. I would 
especially like to see more

the coffeehouse last November in Schlosser explained the name is rented has been unoccupied 
classical pieces performed, andA coffeehouse called "Emma's" order to "fulfill a need which I felt Emma. Goldwin was an anarchist of since 1966, when it enjoyed a brief not only on the guitar. We'rerecently opened on the 800 block of was missing. I thought the com­limited fame at the turn of the reputation as a bar called the 

putting a piano up h_ere just asHoward Street in South Bend. munity needed a cultural place, a century, and she's sort of a "Irish Inn", and before that as soon as its' tuned. I think the goodSituated directly opposite the place for people to get together, to favorite of mine in history. "Tillerman's". 

turnout proves that there is still anparking lot adjacent to "The listen to music, to perform, to be Secondly, the name is an attempt The coffeehouse is presently a intest in folk music that has never

to get away from the purely small room with a dozen small, masculine names of the neigh­candlelit tables. There is a small died." Schlosser noted the success boring taverns; Louie's, Nickie's, space on the side of the room for of IUSB's annual Folk Festival in
Observer lnsifdht the spring.
etc." the musicians and the kitchen is in "I would like to emphasize", the back. A very warm at­"Emma's" will stay open "at 
least until the end of this summer.

stimulated. It's a new alternative continued Schlosser, "that what mosphere pervades the place.
Library" package store, its to the bar scene. It's always been a we're trying to do is fulfill a need. I "We plan to open up a 'low room' After that, I'll have to find 
storefront facade belies its cozy someone who really wants to carry
sort of dream of mine to open a am not in this business to make a in the bac:k as sort of an overflow
interior. 
place like this in South Bend. And profit, but to provide a service to space with couches and rugs", said on the tradition. It requires a 
"Presently", commented Joe certain stamina and financial
since I used to work at the old St. people in the community and to Schlosser.

Scholosser, founder and manager, 
Mary's Coffehouse, when it was students who live off-campus. I
"we are open Friday and Saturday 
1(\cated under McLaughlin, I've feel there are many services of this
nights with live folk and classical 
· had some experience in running a type which need to be done, such as
music. Sunday is reserved for 
coffeehouse." an off-campus food co-op."
'reading night', either poetry or 
Despite "Emma's" close The idea of service is evident at
whatever happens to come up." 
proximity to Notre Dame, it's the coffeehouse. The core group of
Hours are from 8 PM to "about 1 
clientele is not exclusively about ten people who man the
AM or so, depending on how many 
University students. "We get a lot kitchen and run the place are all
people we have here. We hope to 
of people in here who are residents volunteers, as are the musicians 
open for one other weekend night 
of South Bend, people who work who play there.
in the near future, and eventually 
here or who've just hung around This coffeehouse is presently the 
seven nights a week," said' 
since they've graduated. There's only one of its kind in South Bend,
Schlosser. 
also a number of students from although it follows a tradition of
There is no cover charge, but a 
IUSB. Although we've had some coffeehouses which existed for
donation of 25 cents is requested 
high school students, it seems that some years, such as the "Salty
for each drink. The house serves 
most of the crowd is older. We're Dog" and the basement of
hot chocolate, coffee, and several 
not trying to solicit anyone's "Frankie's" (now "The Library") 
types of tea, including "English 
breakfast", "oolong" -a Chinese tea, "Darjeeling" -an Indian tea, "mint tea"-made with spearmint 


Acapulco
leaves, "rose hips" -a high 
Meeting

vitamin C tea, and "Constant Comet" -a commercial brand. No 
Wednesday, Feb. 27 7pm alcoholic beverages or drugs of any kind are allowed on the 
In Fiesta Lounge (Next to Student Union 
property. "We're trying to get 
Ticket Office)

coffee beans so we can have fresh­ground coffee soon", said 
ATTENDANCE IS MANDATORY 
Schlosser. The manager, a 1973 Notre 
If you are using a passport for proof of citizen­
Dame graduate who presently 
ship you must know the number on it. 
attitude," noted Schlosser.

"We welcome anyone who wants 
c Now Renting 
A~ one and two bedroom furnished apartments
N\ 
p 

Ll 
VISIT OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN THE OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE IN 
s; 
THE BASEMENT OF THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
WEDNESDAY 1-5 THURSDAY 1-5\f FRIDAY 1-5 
E 
I OR CALL 232-5853 CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT 
COMPANY 

w "APARTMENTS VVITHTHE STUI:INT IN MIND" 
0 
Curtis Enterprises and New Era Records 
present 





/prlng Get Away 
OVER $10,000 IN PRIZES TO BE AWARDED! ENTER NOW! YOU COULD WIN THE VACATION OF YOUR LIFETIME! 
Grand Prize 

1. 
Five, sunfilled days -four fantastic nights at the posh "Pier 66 Motel" on the ocean at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA! 

2. 
First-Class round trip transportation from winner's location to FT. LAUDERDALE! 

3. 
Honda rental bike during the duration of your stay! 

4. 
Dinner for two at the fabulous "Pink Pussy Cat"! 

5. 
Dinner for two at the ''Windjammer" 


6. 
Dinner for two at "Pier 66" -the world's most fantastic supper club overlooking the beautiful blue ATLANTIC! 

7. 
$100.00 credit account in your name at "She" -the swingingest singles spot in Florida! Top name entertainment seven days a week! 

8. 
$50.00 credit account in your name at ''The Button" -Lauderdale's leading after-hours club! 

9. 
$100.00 cash -to spend as you please! 




10 Each Second Prizes 
1. 
Three days, two nights at Holiday Inn, on the ocean, at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA. 

2. 
Round trip transportation (from winner's location). 

3. 
Dinner for two at ''The Windjammer." 


4. 
$25.00 credit account in your name at "She." 

5. 
$25.00 cash -to spend as you please. 




1,000 Third Prizes 

1. Any one stereo LP or 8 track tape of your choice listed in the current New Era Records Catalo~l­
.....................................................................
, 
CURTIS ENTERPRISES -NEW ERA RECORDS
RULES AND REGULATIONS 
1 Contest opzn only to bonaf1de students of an accred1ted college or un1vers1ty. "I certify that I am a student at ___________ 
2 Wmners will be selected by the W A Wilhoit Corporation, an mdependent judg1ng (name of school) organiZation Wmners will be selected at random and the dec1s1on of the Judges w1ll be final A list of all wmners will be ava1lable upon wntten request to New Era Records. Name _______________________ 
3 To reg1ster. pnnt mformat1on m spaces prov1ded on coupon ____.. 4 Enclose $1 00 for process1ng and handling. Remit by check or postal money order only PAYABLE TO: "NEW ERA RECORDS-CEI." 5 Ma1l your regJstratJOn to 
Address-------------------­NEW ERA RECORDS SUITE lOB 
City _________State ____ Zip ___
1100 SPRING STREET N.E. ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30309 6 Entnes must be postmarked NOT LATER THAN March 8th. 1974 
Wednesday, February 27, 1974 the observer 
Farley 'hoppers' cop hoop crown 
by John DeCoursey Clemency; Jockettes-Becky Commenting on some of the Staff Reporter Bansiak; WalshJamee Decio. 
aspects of the game Coach Carroll Women's Interhall Basketball The two coaches of "Beer Farley 
said, "Our team was the only one that used a person to personcompleted its second season and and the Hops" had several en­defense. The thinking that saysthe winning team is "Beer Fal'ley thusiastic comments about girls girls aren't quick enough and canand the Hops," one of the two basketball. Mike Lavoie said, "At only play a zone is wrong. Theteams from Farley. · "Beer first it was comical, but at the end girls were definitely quick enough Farley and the Hops." went everyone was serious about it. 

to play person to person. And thethrough the regular season with a Girls basketball is definitely more offense had a good pattern." 

5-0 record and in the semifinals of than just half-time en­Talking about the league inthe playoffs they defeated the team tertainment.'' 
general Mike Cramer, coach of thefrom Walsh 26-24 in overtime. Steve Carroll, the other coach, Jockettes, said, "The league wasIn the finals, the Jockettes, a added, "They're just like guys. 

much stronger this year. Therewinner over Breen-Phillips in the This year we had nine freshman were fewer forfeits, and th league other semi-final match, were and one sophomore, and all of 

structure was much more

soundly defeated by "Beer Farley them played organized basketball organized."
and the Hops" 28-14. Third place before." went to Walsh. The teams in the league and their captains were Breen-Pi-nllips­

Cosell headlines banquet
Ellen Duffy; Badin-Beth Neary; Farley-Susy Leonarfd; Beer 
Farley and the Hops-Mary Athletic Director Edward W. Krause has announced that Howard Cosell, the nationally­
CARE donations 
known sports telecaster, will be the featured speaker at the Notre to be collected Dame basketball banquet on Tuesday, March 19. 
at entrances "We feel very fortunate in being able to get Howard Cosell for this year's banquet to honor

of dining halls 
one of the most successful basketball teams we've had here There will be monetary at the University," Krause said. 
collecthns for CARE at the en­trances of both dining halls from 
AP Ratings

Wednesday, February 27 to Thursday, March 7 and Wed­nesday, March 20 to Tuesday, I. N. Carolina St. (29) 22·1 .912 
2. Notre Dame (15) 22·1 .844April 9. 3. UCLA (4) 20-3 ....774 CARE is an organization that 4. North Carolina 20-3 .599 
responds to the needs of needy 5. Maryland 1!1-4 .520 
6. Vanderbilt 21·2 ...4.'!6

people in Latin America, Africa, 
7. Alabama 20-3' . ...399 

and Asia. Its programs deal with 8. Marquette 21·3 .... ...340 9. Indiana 1~3 .... .323
emergency situations, such as the 
10. Southern CaliComia 20-3 ...2148

drought areas of Niger and the II. Pittsburgh 22·2.. .. . .. 2:iO flood areas of Pakistan. 12. Providence 23-3 ... . .246 
13. Long Beach Sl. 21·2 ... .. lllol

CARE's main objectives are to: 
H. S. Carolina 1!1-4 . 99 

1) supply the people with food, 15. KanS<Is 17·5 .. . . 45 especially children and pregnant 11. Creighton 21·4 .. .39 
17. Michigan 17-4 ..... . ... 31

and nursing mothers to prevent .... 27
18. Arizona IH.. . irreversible brain damage, which lt. New Mexico 19-6 .. .. 25 
20. Louisville 17·5 . . . . . . . . 19

would affect future generaions. CARE feeds 28 million people 
Tickets for this year's banquet will be $12.00, which includes pre­dinner refreshments. Tickets may be secured by sending checks made out to Notre Dame Basketball Banquet to the Ticket Department. They are also available at the Gate 10 box office which is open from 9:00 to 
5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday at the Athletic Con­vocation Center. 


UPI Ratings 
W L Pts. 
I. North Carolina St. (21) z., Notre Dame (9) 3. UCLA (5) 4. North Carolina  22 22 20 20  I I 3 3  335 313 292 20.1  
5. Maryland I. lndian'a  19 18  ~ 3  14S 108  
7. Marquette 8. Vanderhill  21 21  3 2  100 !16  
t. Southern California  20  3  74  
11. Alabama  20  3  66  
II. Pittsburgh 11. (tie) Long Beach St. 13. Providence  22 21 23  2 2 3  39 39 36  
14. Kansas  17  5  . 19  
15. KanS<~s State  18  5  16.  
"· South Carolina 16. (tie) Creighton 18. New Mexico  19 21 19  4 5 6  15 15 II  
lt. Texas-EI Paso  8  6  • 10  
11. Louisville  17  5  4  


daily. 
2) provide much needed medical, clothing, and shelter supplies. 



ASH WEDNESDAY 
3) educate the people and supply them with tools which will enable them to help themselves with their 

MASS 
own resources so that they can lead meaningful lives. For every dollar donated almost 
At the Bulla Shed 
eight dollars of services and commodities are rendered to the needs of the people. For instance, $10 will provide a meal for 900 
Tonight at 9:3.0 p.m.
hungry children. 
Student Union Invites You To 



ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
1f2 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar 

* 
Baggage handling & transportation to & from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 

HURRY! 

SOME SEATS STILL AVAILABLE I 
Questions • call Sween at _3669 
• •• , · · · · ' \ ".\". •• "'-·t .',\\'.'.· . , . • . " _ 
"-1!-..,..r:..-..;,-..;,_..a.._""""'_:..._,;......;'.:;•'-..:..;;··-·;.;,;..· _,;.· ·;;.'-.;..·.;.'...;.'.;.·_.:,•..;•.._.;,'..;"....;';.;·;.;·...;;.:._~...;;.~..:...;..-J 
Several comments were made Mary Clemency, captain of the about the possibility of expanding winning team, commented, "I've girl's basketball into a club sport. talked to some of the girls, and 
Coach Carroll said, "I am very there is an interest in forming a much in favor of it." club." 
ITALlAN & BRITISH SHAG & LAYER CUTS HAIR & SCALP ANALYSIS Sam Belardinella Mike McDonald FOR APPOINTMENTS CALL 288-6661 Closed Monday See Our New MEN'S DEN . Featuring The Latest Fashions In Men's Clothes 2303 S. MIAMI S. BEND  JUST N. OF BUSCHBAUM'S PHARMAO  

c Now Renting A 
one and two bedroomM furnished apartments p 
u 
VISIT OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN THE OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE IN 
s 
THE BASEMENT OF THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
v 
WEDNESDAY 1-5 THURSDAY 1-S FRIDAY 1-S 
I 
OR CALL 232-5853 
E 
CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT COMPANY 
"apartments with the
w 

student in mind" 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

Morrissey Loan Fund : Loan up to $150 for 30 daya , 1 per cent interest, service charge. One day walt. Basement of LaFortune. Hours 11:15-12:15. 
Experienced typist will do typing. Themes, Manuscripts. CaII 233-5332. 
SMC Summer School In London travel in Ireland· , Scotland, Wales, England, and Paris. May 20-Jun 20. College Credit available. $795 + tuition. Professor Black 284-4948 office, 272-3726 home. 
Spring Break in Acapulco, Bahamas, or Puerto Rico. Vagabond Tours, $199 . Kel 233­4818. 
Good tix available for 1 Gen­tlemen of verona Mar. 1 and 2. Morris Civic . Studer' Union ticket Office open 1-5 ally. 
RIDES WANT! D 

Need ride to Bost .n Spring Break. Call Jim 8'!9. 
Need ride to twnn. Spring Break. Call Cary 8898. 
Need ride to DC Mar. 8. Call Jeanne 6728. 
Beauteous Bucolic Oregon Boldly Beckons. Need ride to Oregon or Washington. Spring Break. Randy 234-3254. 
Need ride to MSU this Fri. Call Dan 287-6700. 
Ned ride to Boston(Harvard ) Spring Break. Share EX· penses, Mary Jo 284-4105. 
FOR RENT 

I BR apt. furnished. HMt 8Cin water provided. On bul line. 
' . S8Smonth.. assume~-Miir .... A!J9. •ca11 267·111•,or 219-to14. ·· 
FOR SALE 
70 Pontiac, Le Mans , power, automatic$1175. Call Gary 259­5894. 
Top Quality reel to reel tape decks. Unopened at low prices. Call 8436 or 8782. 
Handmade Indian Jewelry from the Southwest. Call Tom 8373. 
Electrophonic stereo , AM-FM radio. Makes noise. sso. Dan 287-6700. 
WANTED 
Need one Villanova ticket. Call 32.CO. 
Newly opened night club In NO area needs colktall watlresses. Call Dave 232-5653. 
Motor home leaving tor Aspen Colo Mar. 8. Need riders to share gas. Call AI Brasseur 289-2463 before 5. 
Urgent! Need Ide to NJ tMr. 
7. Will share :lrlvlng + n­penses. Call Immediately Margaret 234-7596. 
LOST AND FOUND 
1 man's black waHet , Initials JAV Call Dale 8824 Reward. 
P.ERSONALS 
BLESSING OF ASHES and prayer for honest repentance this afternoon at Vespers-5 o'clock In the log chapel. 
T.L. 2 pick-ups Is my limit. Let's do It the conventional way this weekend. 
Patiently Waiting. 
Janet Oenefe Remember Mar. 2 . 
'. 

·------------------~----~--~--~ 
-~-------~--------­
8______~t~h~e~o~b__s_e_r_v_e__r_____w__~_n_e_sd_a~y_,_F_e_br_u_a~ry~27_,_1_97__4 
Irish win eighth frOm BSU. 93-69 
by Hal Munger 

Not in seven years had the Ball State Cardinals been able to handle Notre Dame, and last night proved no different. Handily, the taller, faster Irish tore through BSU for a 93-69 victory, the eighth in series. That leaves ND with a 23-1 record, 21 straight home wins, and only the formalities of an NCAA tourney invitation. 
Two heroes of Saturday's 108-80 win over West Virginia were also evident in last night's triumph over the Cardinals. Adrian Dantley, who scored 41 against the Moun­taineers, had to settle for 26 this time, and Gary Brokaw, who had 10 assists, held the nation's fifth leading scoring, Larry Bullington, to 16 points. 
Still another hero, though, of Saturday's win was the big factor in last night's contest. John Shumate tallied 31 points last evening, his personal high of the season and of his career, the same total he tallied last year against St. John's. 
Notre Dame won the opening tip, 
and got the first points of the night 
from Dantley. The Irish also relied early on the muscling work of Shumate and the outside shooting 
. of Brokaw. "Magic" popped a 2o­footer and a 22-footer in the early going, but it wasn't long before Gary Novak turned on his own offensive motor and canned a 22­footer. The senior co-captain followed with a driving twisting layup. Ball State led only once, six minutes gone into the contest, when Shafer Suggs, a 6'2" football-basketball starter, threw in a layup on the end of a fast break. Billy "Apple" Paterno countered though, with layup of his own, taking a beautiful feed to ground the Cards for good. ND's lead built up to 50-38 at halftime and flue­tuated around 12 for the first minutes of the second half before spreading to 28 points with 1:04 to go. Bullington shot only 39 per cent, scoring only seven field goals and two free throws, well below his 25.9 average. Leading scorer for the Cardinals was senior forward Chris Colllins with 18. As a team Ball State made 42 per cent of their attempts while the Irish sunk 55 per cent. Notre Dame shot .882 
from the free throw line with the 
Cardinals shooting only .692. 
The "Big Shu" showed a myriad of moves in his best point per­formance of the year. Dantley reeled off inside and outside baskets, drawing numerous fouls. 
Paterno returned to his old form, dropping in bombs and finishing 6 for 11 for 13 points. Ray Martin sunk his only shot of the night, a fa,~t-break layup. 
Afterwards, Digger Phelps said "Dantley, along with Paterno and <Ray) Martin, have learned a Jot about college basketball and are showing it now in this 'second season.' Shu also played on heck of a muscle game." 
Freshman Toby Knight saw time in the first and second halves, and the bench was cleared before the e!•d of the game. Roger Anderson scored ND's last two points on a· corner-jumper. 
Phelps will give his charges tomorrow off before beginning preparations for Villanova. Fresh­men highlight the Villanova team which invades the ACC Saturday for the last home contest (a sellout). The first season will end a• Dayton on next Monday. 


·neran·························....·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·.·.·~....................·.··································· Irish items: Preparations. are
John Fl r.·.·························· •H.....•.·.·········=-·························································· now being made for a bustnp to John Shumate, temporarily "overshadowed" by teammate Adrian Greensboro, N.C. for the NCAA Dantley's 41 points last Saturday, made amends with 31 of his own last championship round, March 23-25. night as the Irish won number 23,93-69, over Ball State. The trip, of course, is contigent upon the Irish getting an NCAA bid
Blarney Stone(d) 

and making it through the regionals to Greensboro. 
Huskies unanimous
Jim Mattes, the co-ordinator of the trip, said, "Right now, we plan ================================:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::~,":~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=============== Nappys bouts 22t~~~a;:t~~nb~~ ~~::J~~~t.~;~~ Michigan Tech remained the 
unanimous choice of 10 college 
In the middle of the floor st<x:d this giant among men, dwarfed by his younger proteges. He shouted instructions to them, but not in a authoritarian way. No, the in­structions came with en­couragement, the way you would expect them to come from this man. 
"What's this man doing wrong .. . come on, you can do better than that ... all right, next two boxers .. . don't be bashful ... that hook was 


awfully good ..." Domi"ie Napolitano 
This giant among men is Dominic J. Napolitano, but to everyone here at Notre Dame, he is simply Nappy. It's just hard to imagine that Nappy has been the driving force behind each Bengal Bouts for 43 years. 
1931.. forty-three years ago ... that seems so long ago, but to Nappy, 1931 is just like yesterday. In times like these, when people's opinions change from day-to-day, it is refreshing, perhaps even assuring, that this man's opinions have not. , 
The Bengals are Nappy's; they'll always be his. But to him, at least, the Bengals belong to those who take part, and in these 43 years, that opinion has not changed. 
"I never get tired of this," Nappy says. "Not with kids like this. They wan to learn. When they start out, you think they don't know their left from their right. But when they finish, they look like pros." · 
And that's they way Nappy has always been --professional -in his dealing with his Notre Dame students. "Boxing is a contest just like any other sport," he says. "When it ceases to be a contest, then stop it --don't let the boy get hurt. 
"Thousands of spectators have seen, what we believe, are some of the finest bouts in amateur boxing. They have seen the execution of skills which resulted in the building of courage, self-confidence and sport­smanship. They have seen boxing shows where the well-being and safety of the contestants comes first and the enjoyment of the spectators second." 
This is not to say that the Bengal Bouts are not exciting. Rather, you couldn't find a better entertainment for such a cheap price. And what's more, the Bengal Bouts are a charitable event, with the money going to support the Holy Cross Fathers in Bangladesh. Nappy and the good Fathers were even ahead of that musical genius, George Harrison. 
This year's Bengals certainly will be exciting. Twenty-two matches 1t: 1s Sunday afternoon, which might seem like a lot of boxing, are ~cheduled to begin at 2 p.m. Five champions return-Eli Guajardo, Tom Garrity, Mike McGuire, the last of the five "Fighting McGrath" brothers, Pat and Charlie Morrison, who during his spare time also leads the Notre Dame cheerleaders. 
"I guess I like the Bengals because of the guys, the sportsmanship," Morrison says. "The judges may say you have won or lost, but that doesn't make you any less of a competitor. 
"But, you see that man over there," Morrison continues, pointing to N a ppy. "He's what the Bengals are all about." 
Last season,·15,ooo-plus fans witnessed the three-day event. This year, besides the Sunday afternoon segment, Tuesday semifinals and Thursday finals are also scheduled. Notre Dame students can see all this wor­thwhile action for $1.50. And that "all" means three days, not one. 
It seems such a small price to pay, and it is, especially with the money going to those less-fortunate than us. When you get down to it, it's just peanuts. 
There is no better way for Notre Dame students to repay Nappy than by making their presence known on March 3, 5, and 7. He'd be the first to say you won't be disappointed. 
The package will include the coaches in this week's national 
student's busride, a ticket for the hockey poll. The Huskies, who games and hopefully, ac­have clinched first in the WCHA commodations. and home-ice advantage for two 
"At the moment, the bus com­playoff eeries, might be en­pany has not given me a price, and tertaining Notre Dame in the first hotel accomodations are still being of them next Monday and Tuesday worked out. Hopefully, these nights. problems will be taken care." The Irish, who were picked 
Anyone interested in making the second in preseason national­trip should call Mattes at 283-1680. ratings, have yet to clinch a playoff 
Cage, hockey finals head 1-hall 
by Sam Yanucci 
Inter hall athletics, like TVS, offers more in '74. Presently two tournaments--basketball and hockey--are in progress and competition in three other sports is due to begin before Spring break. 
In basketball, Holy Cross II and Grace V will battle for the Notre Dame crown in a best two-of-three series. Holy Cross, the defending IH champion, advanced to the finals by defeating Pangborn II, 57­46, on Saturday afte1·~oon. Holy Cross never trailed il,. that game rolling up quarter advantages of 12-9, 24-18 and 38-33 before com­piling the final victory margin. John Connelius canned 26 points for the winners while Dave Kelly 
led Pangborn's attaci with 21 points.
Grace V reached the final by outdistancing Keenan I, 56-51. Keenan,althoughdownby8athalf. 

time, roared back in the second half behind the balanced scoring of Mike Banks, who led Keenan with 10 points, Mark Zettel, Jim Don­nely (each with 8) and the Clemens twins--Pete and Paul-who netted 6 apiece. Another brother com­bination, Frank and Rich Allocco, led the Grace squad with a com­
bined 31 points. 
The first game of the series will be played Thursday night in the ACC Pit with the second game coming on Saturday. The final match up, if needed, is scheduled for Sunday. 
Meanwhile, the IH hockey playoff situation is about as muddled as the WCHA playoffs. Dillon and Stanford, as South and North Quad champg respectively, are assured playoff spots, and so is Off-Campus, which finished as South Quad's runnerups. But the final tourney selection will have to be determined by another runoff between St. Ed's, Sorin and Flanner--all of which are tied for second in the North Quad stan­dings. 

Notre Dame's "Stanley Cup" action begins this Sunday night at 
10:15 in the ACC with Stanford against Off-Campus and Dillon against the winner of the special playoff. The finals will be held Tuesday March 5th at 11:15. 
The three other sports on the IH agenda are swimming, track and women's paddleball doubles. For all of those who signed up for thw
c h•11 b 
spot in the league. Notre Dame's chief rival for that eighth spot, Colorado College, is but one point behind. 
The poll: 
I. Mich. Tech (10) (~7-Z) 100 
Z. Minnesota (17·10.5) .... n 
3. New Hampshire {20-7) .. 74 
4. 
Denver ( lt-10.2) .. . .. .. . ·59 

5. 
Boston Unh•ersity (17-6) .. 54 I. Michigan State (1H2·1) 41 


Wisconsin { 16-11-5) . 41 8. Cornell (14-6-1) ..... 29 
I. Minn.·Duluth (17-14) .. 16 
10. Michigan ( 111-I:J.I) . 15 

a l onore : nam
B . 
USlness Manager of Year 
M. Robert Cahill, Business Manager of Athletics at Notre Dame was honored as the Business Manager of the Year at the 24th Annual College Athletic Business Managers Association Convention held in San Fran­cisco. 
Cahill, a veteran of collegiate athletic administration, served as Notre Dame's ticket manager and assistant business manager for 29 years before being named to his present position in 1969. His election as president of CABMA in 1971 marked the first time the same institution has had two presidents. The late Herb Jones of Notre Dame served as president in 1956 and was named Business Manager of the Year posthumously. 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1934, Cahill became executive secretary to the late Elmer Layden before moving into the ticket and business offices. 
A native of Dixon, Ill., Cahill has served as past president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley and was honored by this group in 1963 as "Notre Dame Man of the Year." In 1971 he was given a similar honor by the Rock River Valley Alumni Club. 
Cahill and his wife, Mary, have two children-Mrs James (Katie) Piowaty and Rob. 
swimming meet, it should be noted that due to unavoidable cir­cumstances, the meet (both men's and women's competition) has been postponed until Monday March 4th. Starting time is still slated for 7 p.m. 
The deadline for entering the March 1st track meet is today, February 27th. Events in this year's meet include the 60-yd. dash, 60-yd. hurdles, three in­termediate runs, two relays and the high and broad jumps. 
Entries for women's paddleball must be in by Marc 1st. For more information on any of the above sporting events contact the In­terhall Office, C-4 ACC, or call 6100.
d ed 







