. ---------------------~~----~--~ 
Oil The laslde 
'Quickie' 

••• page 3 
Sha Na Na 

•.. page 5 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 23 Monday, September 30, 1974 · 

Board members for the Alumni Association (Sr. John Miriam, Assistant Provost; Richard Murphy, Alumni Association President; William McGowan 
ND Alumni Board urges re-opening of Senior Bar 
emphasized the importance of his links with the students in obtaining student input on the tssue.
by Terry Keeney "When the Alumni Board meets at the end of theNews Editor 
year, they will have the input of the Observer, The Alumni Board of the Notre Dame Alumni .~~min,istra~i~n, students, etc.,'.' Bracken said. Association, meeting on campus this weekend, .I can} anticipate w~at stan~ will be m~d.e on the · sl ged the re-opening of the Senior Bar ts~ue, Bracken contmued. But; an off1~1al stand 
unammou Y ur . will be made by the Alumm Association to 
as a renovated Semor Club. The Board passed a U . "t ff" . , 
l t. · tat· th t th l b mversi y o tcta1s. 
reso _u tons mg a. e new~ ~ open as so?n as Bracken stated that the Board's vote to give
posstble under the dally supervlSlon of the Offtce of p · ·t t f · l "d t t d ts · · if" t
Student Affairs. non Y o mancta a~. o s ~ en IS ~~~n tc~? 
In other action the Board appointed Board bec~use of th~ alumm s role m fun~-ra1s~ng. . A member Edward A. Bracken to serve as official 5~a~~i~P~:~1!i~hould be placed on fmancial aid to liaison between the Board and the ' · 
body. The Board also recom­Re-organize alumni mended that financial aid to students be made a high Univer­The Notre Dame Alumni sity priority and evaluated Associaion is currently without an Association functions such as class executive director since the reunions and Universal Notre departure of James Cooney. Dame Nights. Murphy observed that this lack of 
The Senior Bar, which is leadership has paradoxically currently being remodeled and proven advantageous. renovated by members of the "The major thing of all is we are senior class, had until this year re-orgaQizing ourselves," Murphy been supervised indirectly by the said. "We have no executive Alumni Association. The bar, to director and no executive director open as soon as the renovation is has been appointed. It's a great complete, will have the legal status opportunity to re-organize our­as a club and be called the "Senior selves to become more con­Club." temporary with the goals and 
"It will now be called the "Senior objectives we want to achieve." Club" because it will open under a Murphy cited measures already club's license," explained taken by the Alumni Board to re­Bracken. organize the Association. The
Edward A. Bracken 

The 19-member board voted unanimously to give board set up a committee to study Universal Notre the officeof Student Affairs direct control over the Dame Nights held annually in nearly each of the operation of the hew Senior Club. local Alumni clubs. The Board is also evaluating
"We're delighted to turn over the day-to-day class reunions. operation of it to the Student Affairs Office," said Murphy noted that the Board has acted to im­Richard Murphy, president of the Alumni prove lines of communication with not only the Association. students, but also with other alumni. 
The Alumni 'Board charged Bracken with "We decided to conduct a specialized survey on representing the alumni to the student body • alumni so we can get a better handle on alumni how especially through the Observer. Bracken sees they think we can better serve them," Murphy 'said. himse~f as a "means of communication" between The Alumni Board paid tribute to Margaret al~,mm and students.. . Boggs, a secretary in the Alumni Office, and Mike 
What we are l~kmg for !'lnd what we thmk the Jordan, departing assistand director of the Alumni students are lookmg for IS a means of com-Association. ~u~ication," said Bracken. "_And the_ best ~ode of Murphy cited 'Boggs' 20 years of service to the fmdmg out about students IS workmg With the Alumni Associaiton. "She probably knows more Observer. about alumni affairs than anybody," he said. , id Iendar Both Boggs and Jordan received gifts and tributes 
'I o cons er ca from the Alumni Associaiton. , . . . . The Alumni Board is the executive committee of 
. One of Bracken s ftrst _tasks IS to eh~1t st~dent the Alumni Association and functions in a strictly mp~t on the new academic calendar which _will be advisory capacity. The Board is composed of 18 an 1tem on the agenda of the January Alumm Board members elected from alumni districts across the meet!ng. The current academic calenda~ marks country. The exiting president of the Alumni the f1rst pre-Labor Pay start of classes m Notre Association is an ex officio member. 'Dame History. Members are elected for four year terms Six 
"W~ t_hink it is the business of the Alum~! members are elected each year. · Association. to be concerned about the calendar, 'The Board, representing the 53,000 alumni, meets Bracken said. . . three times each year. The next Alumni Board 
Bracken admttted that the Alumm Board took no meeting is scheduled for the weekend of January 25 stand on the calendar over the weekend. But he 1975. ' 



O'Neil: Choice 
not religious bias 
by Jim Eder Contributing Editor 
Professor Carl O'Neil yesterday asserted his belief that religious bias had little to do with the appointment of Dr. Leo Despres as chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. O'Neil was one of the six members of the Committee on Ap­pointments and Promotions who resigned from that body last May, eleven days after the Despres appointment was announced by Dean Frederick Crosson. 
"My resignation was not based on any conviction that religious bias had been exercised by the administration," O'Neil stated. "The essential reason for resigning was in protest of the serious lack of communication between the administation and the CAP during the decision-making process," he explained,. 
Bias suspicion refuted 
O'Neil conceded that although he did not base his resignation on the religious question, he "did at one time have a suspicion that religious bias might have been involved in the appointment." 
O'Neil said that this .suspicion "had been generated by two facts: first, that a Catholic had been chosen over three non­Catholics, when the Catholic did not have strong support; and second, that Professor Kurtz said that he had been told by Fr. Burtchaell that religious consideration was a factor in the selection of a chairman." 
O'Nell said that he and-Professor Richard Lammana raised the issue of religious preference with IDean . Crosson a few_ days after the appointment was announced. "Although Crossoniadmittedthat religion had some role 00 play in the selection, he emphasized that it was not a major factor," O'Neil recounted. 
"The Dean explained that the decision was based primarily on Despres' academic and administrative experience," O'Nell said. 
· "Crosson also pointed out that having been here before as a student, Despres has a general acquaintaince with the University," O'Neil noted. 
O'Neil met with Crosson a second time to discuss the question of religious preference on June 6. "At this meeting the Dean revealed that a good part of his decision depended on letters of reference submitted to him by persons who knew both Despres and Kurtz," O'Neil said. "I am now quite convinced that religion was not an essential factor in the decision--that it was based on more professional reasons." 
Lack of communication 
O'Neil emphasized that he resigned from the CAP last May because of his displeasure with the procedures used in selecting the new chairman. "There was and still is a serious lack of com­munication between the administration and the department's faculty," he said. 
"A great deal of confusion arose over having two committees involved in the selection process-the CAP and the Search Com­mittee--without any clear definition of what their respective roles were," O'Neil observed. 
"The department had established a four-member search com­mittee to seek candidates, make an initial screening and submit the most attractive candidates to the CAP for final consideration. Crosson; however, added a fifth member to the search committee from outside the department and requested that it submit a report separate from that of the CAP. 
"The administration never makes decisive statements; they are always interpretive," said O'Neil. "Furthermore, there are no organized channels for communication. Consequently, in this case we had no clear expectation of what our role in· the appointment process actually was," O'Neil explained. (-ti d B)
con nue on page 
afternoon. 




r--------...,..--------------~------------.-·
......~ 
Monday, September 30, 1974 
warld 
briefs 
RENO, Nev. (UP I) -The revealing "jumper" Laura Ann Bode wore to class at the University of Nevada was judged by police to be too sexy for a school dance. 
Campus police arrested the graduate psychology student on a charge of indecent exposure at the dance. 
Miss Bode, 23, said her "jumper" consisted of a short skirt held up by two thin suspenders. "It's the same dress I had worn to class," she said. 
BETHESDA, Md. <UPI)-President Ford said Sunday his wife Betty has received many beautiful flowers from citizens, but would prefer that contributions be sent to the American Cancer Society instead. 
Ford asked reporters who chatted with him outside Bethesda Naval Medical Center to convey that message to the First Lady's well-wishers. 
BOZEMAN, MONT. (UPI) -An accused child-killer who stalked 
the wilderness of southwestern Montana for six years attacking 
campers confessed to four murders and then hanged himself 
Sunday, police said. 
Police said they found David Meirhoefer, 25, hanging in his cell a few hours after he had confessed to killing four young persons over a six-year period. 
an campu• tad., 
s;a & 7 pm --Film, "angela davis: portrait of a revolutionary," black and chicano studies film festival, eng. aud. 
8 pm --lecture, "Impersonality and the moral point of view," philosophy perspective series, galvin life science aud. 
S pm --vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
8:30pm-· concert, elvis presley Is sold out. October 1 concert also sold out, ACC. 
daily 
10-S pm .• art exhibit, pre-columbian, french, comtmp. graphics, art faculty and masterpieces from permanent collection, nd gallery. 
If your club or organization wishes to have its activity appear In on campus today, stop by the observer offices, fourtiT floor of Iafor­tune, with the information. 
Fr. Hesburgh purchased the first ticket for the Neighborhood Study 
Help Raffle last Friday. Tim Meinken, raffle chairman, makes the sale as Eileen Flanagan and D.C. Nokes, program coor­dinators, look on in his office. {Photo by Tom Drape) 
~-~~-------------­


Head Start orientation Ineeting slated lor Tuesday at K of CHall 
By Jim Donathen Staff Reporter 
What can you do with wasted spare time? Become a Head Start volunteer; they need you. 
"There's so many classrooms (31 in South Bend), there's such a need. 'Any time students can put in is badly needed," said sophomore Mike Fitzsimmons. They worked with 4-year old pre-schoolers on a one to one basis in reading, music and sports programs. 
"The biggest reward is knowing that you're helping somebody," said Fitzsimmons. "You're just doing a little thing. But it's worth it when you watch kids grow from almost rejecting you to being your friends." 
How do you join Head Start? A recruitment and orientation meeting is slated for Tuesday night at 7 o'clock inK of C Hall. Workers will provide information on Head Start education, health and nutrition programs. Information can also be obtained by calling Fitszimmons at 8256; or Mike Foley, assistant volunteer chairman, at 8256 or Mrs. Lucy McCullough, Head Start volunteer co-ordinator at 287-6573. 
The objective of Head Start is to reach the poverty-level child and family," said Mrs. McCullough. "20 percent of our budget comes from the local community in donations of money, space and time. The classroom volunteer is a necessary part of the program." 
Head Start is much more than a classroom. It is a comprehensive program of education, health and nutrition, according to Education 
YES to appear at 
ND in Novermer 
The Observer Is publiShed dally d~lno the college semester except vacations by the stuctents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. SubScrlptlona mlly be purchased for sa per semester (Sl,. per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
Coordinator Mrs. Helen Wost­mann. 
Wostmann said Head Start exposes parents and children to nutritional, medical, dental and psychological needs and values. The program stresses personal health care through nutritious meals and physical examinations for the children. The family is helped through classes and con­sultations with specialists. 
"It is true that the four to five month educational gain made in the program is lost by the time the child reaches second or third grade, said Mrs. Wostmann. "What isn't measured is the tremendous health and social gain by the whole family." 

The family is operative in all phases of Head Start as policy makers, classroom personnel and advisors. Since a child's needs extend in the home, H~!!d Start offers family conseling with problems of education, em­ployment, health and community concern. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LANSING 
cordially invites all alumni, students, their families and friends to a Pregame Party before this year's Notre Dame • Michigan State game. 
Pretzel Bell Restaurant Trowbridge Rd. and 1·496, East Lansing, Mich. Friday Evening, October 4, 1974, 8:00 P.M. 

Admission: $1.00 per person 

See Exciting Professional 

CHICAGO COUGARS vs. QUEBEC NORDICS SUNDAY, OCT. 6th 7:30 P.M. 
Athletic and




NOTRE DAME 

Convocation Center 
A.ll seats General Admission 
NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS: $2.00 
Tickets on sale at: NOTRE DAME A.C.C. GATE 10 
MON. · SAT. 9 · 5 

FlliDJ\V 4pm-IVIdnight__ 




OCTOBER 4"5 
SATUilDAY 10 cm-1V1dni9lt 
(G•a"".a.N] .t/t\),IC:. 
S~E.R.t fOOO~ p. ~ .p. ~ ~~ 
ADM I


100 ClNUR :~:;.:;~:,: 
700 L.W.W.· U.S. 33 M ISMAWAK.A 
.. 
~ 
-----~-------/~~--~--------------------------------~~ 
Monday, September 30, 1f14, 

Campus View to be finished soon 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
Classes have been in session for five weeks now and everyone is finally settled in--well, almost everyone. Over 100 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are still awaiting the completion of the Campus View Apartments, located 1 mile southe:.~<st of the ACC. 
Twenty-four out of sixty pre­rented apartments have a~ready been occupied and, accordmg to the manager of Campus View, Joe Kleiser, the remaining units will be occupied by October 22nd. 
by Robert Jacques Staff Reporter 
"Very successful," was the reaction of Ombudsman Director Bill McLean in describing the debut of the "Quickie" shuttle bus service. The future of it is, however, not so bright and will depend heavily upon positive student response. 
The off-campus shuttle system operated three buses in the Michiana area Friday evening and early Saturday morning. One chartered Michigan Line bus served 31 North and two PTC city buses served the south part of South Bend as far as Scottsdale Mall. 
The north line bus, usually full and often packed during the eight runs, served several restaurants and three bars. Most students using the shuttle went to the Michigan taverns. The two south lines experienced medium traffic during the beginning and later trips and light use on the later trips on Friday evening. According to Rich Guiltinan, Social Commissioner, this was due to the great number of activities on the Notre Dame campus. 
In designing the "Quickie," the 
Ombudsman service had three 
goals and purposes in mind, ac­
cording to its director. The first 
was the opening of more social 
options, including that of alcoholic 
beverages, to the student body. 
The goals of safety and efficiency 
were also included. 
The second purpose was for 
flying a trial balloon in the 
ultimate hopes of planning and 
forming a successfllll, week-end, 
off-campus shuttle system to 
serve for academic, tran­
sportation, and social purposes. 
The first two were not included in 
their most recent test because off­
campus transportation has 
already been established for the 
semester while the academic 
group trips are fairly uncommon. 
The social aspect of the campus 
needs the most attention. Ac-
I~ 
i723 SOUTH BEND AVB
....... 

SPECAI. 
COLLECrCR'S ITEM 
.D.· ALABAMA 
SUGAR BOWL 
MUGS 
6 FOR $7 .0 Q. 

"Eight units are ready now, and sixteen more will be by the end of next/week,'~said Kleiser, but we're waiting to move in tenants until we can blacktop the parking lot and 
nove the construction further 
1way." 
Flynn, an ND junior, "and it's a sea of sand. Sometimes the cars get stuck." Concerning the noise of nearby construction, Flynn said, "It gets you up for class. They usually start at seven." He added, "They will be really nice apart-


Observer lnsivht 
ments, though, ·when everything's
The decision to delay occupancy was made in response to some of finished." the problems current tenants have "Next year it'll be a great place faced the last three weeks. to live," echoed senior Norman 
"There's not much parking Bowers. Bowers and most of the space right now," remarked Mike other students waiting to move into 

New trend on CCllllJ:m 

'Quickie'big at Notre Dame 
Campus View are being housed at the Stoneridge apartments. They pay only what they would at Campus View for apartments twice as expensive. 
"The apartments are really beautiful, and it's good of them to put us up here;" said Bowers. , "That's wliat tfiey agreed to do if Campus View wasn't ready. There haven't been any great in­conveniences, but it hasn't been the most pleasurable existence. We've managed to cope." 
Some inconvenience was caused residents of both Campus View and Stoneridge by an initial lack of furniture. "Everything arrived piece by piece for about three weeks," explained Bowers. Our apartment still doesn't have bedsteads." 



Other tenants lack a few chairs or an end table, but in general, most of the adjustment problems have been settled. 
According to Kleiser, the six weeks delay in cqnstruction was caused by an unexpected drop in financing. "All of a sudden everyone stopped loaning money. Our construction loan was can­celled. When they started lending again the prime rate had jumped to 12 percent. We lost a month and a half with red tape, and that's how far we're behind now." 
The delay resulted in about 15 cancellations, admitted Kleiser, but otherwise "The students have been very co-operative. They're 
working  with  us  and  we  feel  
re happy  with  what we're  
"  

WEEKENO JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. 
Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum. $50 CALL C. STONE (219 636-7189 
Ketti Frlngs' Pulitzer Prize play based on the novel bY Thomas Wolfe. · 

iares a. bath presents 



david carradine 
in concert 
with vvater 
also appearing thomas martin, folksinger, guitarist 
october 5, 1974 rrorris civic auditorium south bend indi:anci dl seats :r~·--~.~~SQO,, 
fwo perforO'Dnces 7 •·""& J0 tickets on sale m ca..Jl0-4-lf ·•H•• 

........,. ..• d 
b o Q_f'1e r. • o r.d~a 
cording to McLean, most students believe that "booze plus a room and people and music on the right week-end yields a party. The alcohol is an essential ingredient." While expressing a desire to see 
more non-alcoholic campus activities, he felt the chance for individuals to get off campus and go to a restaurant or movie was a good thing. 
The third reason was for a self­executive board, and its 120­member staff. 
Students who used the shuttle expressed pleasure with its ef­ficiency and low cost, but mostly for its mere existence. As viewed by this reporter, the buses ran generally on time, smoothly and safely. Loading and disbursing was done with a minimum of risk and time. The students were or­derly and very responsible. 
Jerry Grahan, Robert Mallat, and other NO students express their happiness over installation of the new "Quickie" shuttle bus ser­vice. 

r···-·······-·--·-·····-··-----------··-····--···---.
BART STARR 
Speaking at Bethel College on Sports and Christianity 
Time -8:00 p.m. Tuesday -Oct. 1 
Place -Bethel College
Fellowship of Chr1st1an Athletes will be attending as 
a campus ~rouo ($1.50 group rate) Anyone interested please call 1522 Monday nightbetween 7 p.m. -11 p.m.

L...::..:........._ ....-..~·---·~--·-•-•••-••-•-•••n•••·•~____. 



NICKlE'S 

TONIGHT 
& 
DlRNGEVERY NODA.Y NGHT FOOrBAU. ~ 
3 aDSTYLES FOR SJ.OO FROVl KICKa=F TO THE ANAL GUN!


' ' 


What IS Woman? 
Ridiculous 
Dt>ar Editor, 
Why don 'I Wt' ever ht>ar from any of the girls on this cam !JUS that have some class? Could it be that none exist? For the last week the only squeals we've heard out of the pens were from the pigs. Somewhere arround here there have got to be some girls that are concerned with somt>thing other than rooting around the sty and biting the hands that feed them. So slease, lets hear from some of the ladies of Notre Dame, we know they outnumber the sows. 
Yours truly, John Mastellar 
Sam. LoBosco Joe Corcoron 
0Pan Bt>ar~
Steve Kindrick ~ill Keller 

Get the Hell Out 
The responses to the article, 
"What is Woman •· have again 
whipped me into an emotional 
frenzy over the coeducation issue, 
enough to make me state my 
position here. This is something I 
should have done a long time ago. 
Notre Dame girls are egotistical eggheads and sadistic snobs. They are infliced with a strange disease called 'ratioitis". Most of them are nice girls before they come here, but once they get here this over­whelming disease destroys any capacity they may have had for dealing with the male population in a Christian and civilized manner. This t>vilrrippler of young women makes the ND snobs treat us men, the last bastion of Notre Dame spirit, like dirt through backstabbing, lying, obtaining "favors" from profs., open an­tagonism towards males and overall shafting of any sort. The disgusting comment that must be made is that they get away with it! 
All my charges can be sub­stantiated either by personal experience or first hand knowledge of incidents of injustice. I am immt>diately reminded of two incidents of the peccancies of the petticoat. 1. first hand knowledge has informf'd me of one very stuck­up, Iowa born, North Quad blond who "influenced" her T.A. to do her Chern. Lab. work for her for all of last year. 2, the most common incident, that needs no specific example, that of an ND snob picking and choosing and hackstabbi~g her way through the 
DOONESBURY 
dating game with no concern for the feelings of the other person. This situation is well known to all Notre Dame men. 
Solution: GET THE HELL OUT! 
We don't want you. We don't need you. Get the hell out. I just hope the Obsl.'rver has enough guts to print this article. Name Withheld 


Such Is IW:Jn 
Analysis of the creature known as man as seen through the eyes of the chemist: 
Symbol: <none l 
Accepted Atomic Weight: 175 
Physical Properties: Boils at n!lthing and freezes at any minute. Melts when properly treated, very bitter if not well used. 
Occurrence: Found wherever women exist. 
Chemical Properties: Violent reaction when left alone, able to absorb great amounts of food matter. Shrivels when placed beside any other specimen. 
Uses: Useful as a tonic in ac­celeration of low spirits and an equalizer of the distribution of wealth. Is the most effective in­come-reducing agent known. 
Caution t Always inexperienced.
I 
Sunny Schramm 


Biochemistry 
Take away her clothes and what have you got? 
75 per cent water which is enough to keep a IO'xiO'lawn growing for a week. Enough Nitrogen to fertilize that lawn for the summer. Enough magnestum for four flash 
bulbs. Enough Iodine to keep Morton Salt in business for a month 
Enough phosphorus for a book of 
safety matches. Enough sulfur to rid a dog of fleas. Enough Carbon for a 2K diamond. 
Enough fat for a bar of soap. Enough glycerine to set off a Navy shell. 
All in all, that's one hell of a bombshell! 

Values taken from various sour­cease-fire in the Wartare ot tne ces. BASED ON A HEIGHT OF Erogenous Zones. In recent days 5'5", 125 LBS. and a 38-24-35. we have publicly aired our grievances· in written smoke Daniel A. Zarate signals and have heatedly debated An Aspiring Biochemist our differences across the camp­fires of both Dining Halls. But, in order to achieve an honorable and 

''TheChemist" lasting we reach
peac~. must a deeper understanding of the com'· onality of our needs and wants. Shame on you for printing the In the wonderful world of human "chemist's view of women." Such sexuality,. ours is indeed an un­cutesy, childish rlisplays of. male derdeveloped nation. As Male and stereotyping of womPn <or should I Female natives, we cry out with say "girls" -"girls and guys," the hungry libidos for the emotional 
stock campus terminology> are in and physical nourishment which is incredibly bad taste. For a our right as human beings. Yet, campus supposedly concerned we sometimes foolishly delude 
with the civil rights of minorities, ourselves into believing that we 
not much serious thinking has been can survive on the restricted diets done about the position of women of our intratribal relationships. in t~ is society -calling women Thus, to you of the Female Nation, "the new niggers" may just be a I say that while the MaleTribe has 
piece of radical feminist rhetoric, struck terror in your ranks with 
but is seems to have a certain blood-curdling war-whoops for raw validity in the context of the Notre meat, they talk in Male pow-wows 
Dame experience. of their needs for more well­Many mt>n <I'm tempted to use rounded diets of Female kindness, "boys") out here seem to associate sympathy and understanding. 
sex as something that has to do Lately, they have even talked of with Playboy centerfolds and abandoning the old ways of panty­panty raids. Good grief! -panty 
scalping and sabre-rattling. raids. I thought they went out with To you of the Male Nation, 1 say,things like parietal rules. Doesn't "Don't bite the source of the milk anyone over jun ior-high school of human kindness!" -The 
age know that sex is a personal FEMALES ARE AMENABLE matter for each individual to TO BARTERING WITH YOU, decide. BUT FIRST YOU MUST CLEAN 
Admittedly these are the five UP YOUR SAVAGE ACT AND o'clock in the morning rantings of BEHAVE CIVILLY IN THE someone new to the Notre Dame MARKETPLACE. Woman hunger campus. Perhaps I haven't ad­for your reserves of kindness and justed yet -amazed that men affection as you hunger for theirs. 
receive maid and laundry service And, I am told, Females are not and off-campus students write solely .herbivorous. letters applauding themselves for Perhaps it is obvious from mydoing their own wash and cooking foregoing discussion of our tribal a meal -seems to me any normal behaviors that both of our nations 
human being <female and yes, are motivated by the mutual 
male too) ought to know how to frustration of common hungers.clean up after themselves and be As any of the Elders of the Ph.D able to wash their dirty clothes. can tell us, it is our frustrations 
Women at Notre Dame get a real that incite us to acts of aggression feeling for how monkeys in a zoo against each other. The source of feel -stared at like they're a dif­this frustration is two-fold. First, ferent species -but let me tell you a we lack the diplomatic skills little secret, women are people, necessary for fair dealing in 
too. human relations. In order to And just to show I'm in the spirit of survive, we must teach each other 
the thing, I'll withhold my name. the rudiments of effective social intercourse. The second source of our frustration is somewhat

To the 
removed from our immediate control. I am of course, referring to the Office of the Dean of Aborigines. The Dean and the assembled Great White Fathers

Tribes 
have sought to homogenize and pasteurize even the few sexual 
Warring 

I address this letter to the Males emotional foodstuffs which ourand Females of this community in own intertribal customs allow us tothe sincere hope that my non­share. · In its place, they have fed partisan views on the present state us bull jerky and wateryof intertribal affairs will cause a platitudes. 
by GarryTrudeau 

Assuming that the ·Fathers wHI not lift their embargo of fre€· communication between tribes, <They have us buffaloed.), we must rely on each other to reduce those sources of frustration which we manufacture for ourselves. Let 
us share among us the nourish­ments of body and soul which neither of our tribes can produce alone <Thank God! l Toward this end, we must meet as equal and complementary tribes at the banquet table of human relaitons. 
Chief Jay Strongbow 


The Sublime 

Dear Editor, 
Displeased I was, the other day, To see the women holding sway In pages of the famed Observ~r. <Through which I glanced wtth usual fervor> I could not help but be dismayed, With bitter portraits they por­trayed. • They seemed to feel that men who roam Amid the shadows of the Dome, Are moved by thoughts of food and drink, Though not with minds these same men think. That men to pigskin often yield, Both on and off the football field. That men ply women with routines rigid, But then, when heat comes on, turn frigid. Now fairer sex, if fair you be, Answer me this inquiry. Is man for sparing God a rib, The on'e to blame for Women's Lib? Is he a fool who throws his dinner? Or does that help to keep him thinner? Sould women think a man is corny, When they, like he, get just as ... restless? 
And bull may lurk behind men's vows, But without bulls, what good are cows? Though women are a wondrous prize, And soothing sights for men's sore eyes, . 
Do they intend, by thetr com­plaints, To live with men, or live with saints? 
Sincerely yours Thomas A. Pearson 
the observer 
Night Editor . Rick Blower Asst Night Editor -Andy Praschak 
layout . Kathy Skiba, Maggie Waltman, Martha Fanning, Sue Zwick. 
Copy Editor · Bob Quakenbush Day Editor . Ken Girouard Editorials . Fred Graver Features · J R Baker Sports-Greg Corgan, Bill Brink Typists . Janet Carney, Dan 
Roos, Kathy "Social Commlsh" Grace, Nell VIII, Camille Arrleh, Rick Huber 
Compugraphic Operator . AI Rugherford Picture Screener -Albert D'Antonio Night Controller -Dave Rust 



---~--~----~~------------~------------------, 
Monday, September :-10, 1974 
faur way street 


whole Iotta shakin' goin' on 
palmieri, murray, baland, I( amith 
It wasn't a sell out crowd, but it was this wall of backing vocals provided Darin's "Splish Splash." Sha Na Na 's 
certainly a vibrant one. With the majority basica'IIy by Bowzer, Denny Grenee, Johnny version had Scream in' Scotti .sitting on his of the audience standing from the time Sha Contardo, and Captain Outrageous broke piano taking a bath while thousands of Na Na ran on to the stage till the fourth time into a fabulous rendition of Bill Haley's bubbles flew up from behind him. Screamin' they ran off, there literally was never a dull "Rock Around the :Clock." From this Scott also brought home the visual effect as tnoment. Sha Na Na's music was a rock and moment on till the verv end there was never he acted out every line of the song. roll that pounded and swelled with nostalgia any let up in the excitement generated. The crowd by this time was merely ec­missed a beat or a vocal may . have been and performance. Their appearance last Going through a repetoire of songs that static, and it was only thirty minutes into occasionally flat. The dynamics were there Saturday night at the Athletic and Con­would sound like an "<'lrlies package offer" the concert. The hits just kept coming as the right on to the end, which characteristic of vocation Center will most assuredly con­this ten man band simply iust performed all gold lame triplets then traded off on vocals the group's act featured four encores. Their vince those ''hippies" that attended "that night. on such notables as "All Shook Up," own "Rock and Roll is Here to Stay," rock and roll is hen• to stay." Some of the highlights of this concert were · "Sixteen Candles," "Breaking Up Is Hard Presley's "Houndog," · execueted im­
The .Sha Na :\i;1 concert started with an classic renditions and fine imitations, a to Do,'' "Get a Job,'' from which they get pressively by Captain Outrageous with the English gent intn>ducing the band which crowd pleasing dane(' cont('st, and an in­their name, "Twisting the Night Away," Memphis voice and token non-functional was followt>d hv an on rush of those mem­spired ending. After rocking and sen­and "Hot Sox." The "sensuous" Lenny B. guitar, "Great Balls of Fire," a beautifully bers of the hand I hat play the instruments. tamentalizing through such greats like then put down his already smoking . maudlin version of "Lovers Never Say These memhers in !urn l'nthusiastically and "Yakety Jak," "Silhouettes,'' ''Tell Laura I saxaphone and put fire to the lyrics of Goodbye," and the)ACClights reminded us musically introduced the rest of the band, Love Her," Screamin' Scott Simon really "Blue Moon." that yes, another concert had come to an the gold iame lriplPts and Bowzer. Then the got the ACC crowd rolling with a · truly end, a'nd the jubilant audience bopped and newest member of !he band, Enrico, and fantastic rendering of the late Bob~y sang their way out to the real world where 
Before their very short interlude, which rain knots your hair and football games arewas remarkably well done with a tape sometimes lost.
covering for the scurrying band members and stage crew, Sha Na Na rlid a choppy The Woodstock generation was a diverse medley of some timeless hits such as "The one, and the event itself appealed to anyoneMashed Potato," the "Bristol Stomp" and 
from guitar aficionados of Jimi Hendrix, to -· "Rock Me Tight." It was choppy only left-over activists of the Joan Baez type, to 
because of the group's versatility which the morning maniac music of Crazy Gracie required Screamin' Scott to play bass and and her San Fransisco freak band: It was give up his piano to either Bowzer or Danny, described as three days of fun and music,while Jocko abandoned his drums to Chico and that's what it's all about. As one of the 
or Enrico so that he could sing. After tliis more popular acts of the classic rock miniscule respite the band returned/after a 
chronicle, in spite of the year 1969, Sha Na quick costume change and staged the Na proved something. Namely, they..·
"fabulous Sha Na Na Dance Contest" under 
demonstrated why the great concerts of the masterful direction of Bowzer. today's audiences ~r, the stag(}' per­'""''"""r.n•""' r""<t''ng m genre from Yes to 
From this point on peOJl '·!re dan<.;-'1lng in Bette Midler to the New York City street the aisles. "La Bamba," ·'Who!~ Lotta rock of _Bruce Springsteen. In fact they Shakin' Goin' On" and "Do You Lo~ Me" demonstrated why concerts are more were begun and ende~ amidst a v_e itable popular today than ever-becuase whether maelstrom of screammg and rav1 g. It or not rock and roll is here to stay, youth and didn't matter that the drummer m¢y have fun always will be. 

life on the road and ~g__mp klesheim 
tim o'reiley 
We were prom i:;crl excitement, a our diet, Stieg!, Salzburg's incrediblychallenge, and an Pducal ion beyond what smooth, 13 percent beer. At about 45 cents books could providP, hut never promised 
per half litre, Stie~l supplies the dessert that 
luxury. The first three pron; ises have been washes down the' potato and tomato laden kept, and the fourth 'I"HS fortunately never meals at the kamp.made. Our life is colllf\H"table by European The highlight of our stay thus far has been 
standards, but incon\'eniPnt hy American. the events of the Salzburg Festival. This is a 
We have learned to do without things, marvelously baroque city, and the bir­change old habits, <md ·>dopi new ones. The 
thplace of Mozart, making it the ideal transition between lhP two cultures has setting for such an explosion of culture as provided some diffieult moments, but it is the festival. During its 54 year history, it has 
all a part of the chall('nr,t: ••nd Pducation of a developed into a rather costly, lavish, but year away from honw. thoroughly excellent affair. "Jedermann," Hugo von Hofmannsthal's First we were introduced to the European medieval morality play, holds center stage trains. Trains like the "Arlberg Express", at the festival. It is produced on a simple, the overnight ride from Paris to Innsbruck flat stage, in front of the Salzburg which provides prompt and reasonably Cathedral. The simplicity of the stage is priced service throughout the continent compensated by the fabulous array of carry the bulk of intercity transportation in sixteenth century costumes featuring bright Europe. The name, in this case, sounded colors, luxurious fabrics, and piles of glamorous, but that was all. We crammed, jewels. Though we could understand few of jammed, and coerced 110 pieces of luggage the lines, it is obviously a primal, stirring and 37 people into seven small sleeping drama that merits seeing in any language. compartments with sex bunks each. The Music lovers, of course, are not denied. luggage came through the windows, we : We held a lottery in the group to distribute came through the doors drenched with tickets to concerts by the Vienna Philhar­sweat, into a car where we could not monic and Berlin Symphony orchestras, squeeze without hitting something. The several chamber recitals, or the operas at hardest part for me was to resist pulling the Sommer Schule. same speed, covering grammar in the the famous Marionette Theater. At the emergency cord, as in "I Love Lucy", then The school, which came to be called Kamp morning, and conversing in GerJ.111an over Cathedral, the Sunday High Masses are 
stand back to watch all the baggage and Klesheim, stands northwest of downtown many topics during the afternoon. Lectures virtually choral concerts, which helps when bodies fly. The motion of the train made Salzburg. The dorms and classrooms were on Austria are given at least once a week, the German mass cannot be understood. sleep difficult at times, but it was sleep carved out of the former stables of Schloss and run by a teacher who would be .best This time and place fulfill the dreams of any 
nevertheless. Klessheim, the palace next door where dressed with a swagger stick. The in­music lover, no matter what his tastes. Henry Kissinger threatened to resign in creasing boredom of the lectures gives us As with any such rush of events, there 
Pulling into Innsbruck after an early June. The rooms provide ample comfort and time to catch up on letters or reading, seems to be little time to digest and un­awakening, we moved en masse to the space for our five-week stay. But hot water however. Field trips to the castles and derstand the last scene before moving on to Kennedy Youth Hostel, where we stayed for is a scarce commodity, almost nonexistent resorts of the area help a lot to make a six the next one. Through it all, we have been the next three days. The biggest disap­in the showers after noon and in the sinks at day week bearable. This program is meant adjusting, sometimes gradually and pointment to this nowfilthy group was the all. Bugs seem to have overrun the kamp, to provide an intensive German study sometimes in shocks, to a more Europeanlack of hot showers for more than tliree but have helped many of us to conquer a program, but unfortunately relies heavily way of life. Salzburg, "the city that keeps its 
people at a time. In the meantime, we took fear of bees. The once-a-week laundry on review, creating too few learning op­looks," offers much to make the adjustment time to become acquainted with our new service does an adequate job, though portunities. to Austria easy and enjoyable. Because of city, play basketball on a floor with more waiting for the first wash tried our patience The light workload allows us many nights travel and this city, we have learned to do 
dead spots than a graveyard, or sit on the as we wore the same clothes four or five 
to visit the local Louie's, Gasthaus Kamml. without and survive, then absorb new thingssecond floor recreation room that was days in a -row. Here we can get that needed supplement to and wonder how we did without. 
profusely decorated with tree trunks. Classes run from 8:30-5:30 six days a Though not a bad place for $4.00 a night, it_ week, with two fifteen minute pauses and a created a jolting change from the luxury of two hour lunch break. We are broken into 

elvis presley
the S.S. France. We were also tired of living four groups according to our plac~ment test out of a suitcase after almost two weeks, scores, supposedly indicating our Germ~n and prepared to settle into the Salzburg abilities. But the classes move at about the 
in concert rronday, september 30 8:30p.m 
r 

Shakespeare Mcirat:hon donations running slower than expected 
By l\lauri Miller Starr Reporter 
With response discouraging but enthusiasm still high, the Notre Dame chapter of Alpha Phi Omega mtered the second half of a planned Ill-hour record-breaking Shakespeare Marathon Monday morning. 
"The donating is just running fair," said Chris Keen, president of the chapter. "As far as the $1,000 goal is concerned, you would have to say that it is going slowly. The alumni helped'twith a little larger donations thari the students nor­mally ~ive over the weekend, however.'' 
"Hut as far as reading and readers are concerned, the response has been good. The volunteers have really been great,'' he said. 
But more readers are still needed, according to the service organization president, and
-
donations, all of which are to be given to local charities, including the St. Marita Day School, are hoped to pick up over the last half of the marathon. 
The marathon started at 5:15 
p.m. Friday and is to end at 8:15 
a.m. Wl'dnesday morning, 
breaking the old record of 109 
hoU.rs unofficially held by students 
at Pth.,"lue University·
Windy' arori r:.in-· ·'"'""ther over
d the weekend had cause Sv.,.._ 

(continued from page I) 
"This lack of communication with the Administration is very serious," O'Neil said. "It has already led to a great deal of confusion and misrepresentation over what actually took place during the selection process.." 
O'Neil pointed out that "the apparent unanimity of the CAP recommPndation of Kurtz for department chairman was ac­tually a compromise-unanimity." It had been reported that the CAP voted 6-0 in favor of Kurtz over three other candidates. Actually this vote took place on a second ballot placing Kurtz against Harland Voss of the University of Kentucky, according to a CAP letter sent to Crosson last April and released for the first time last night. 
On the first ballot each of the 
CAP members were asked to rank 
the four candidates in order of 
preference. Kurtz received five 
first-place votes and one second. 
Voss received three second-place 
votes and two third. John Scanwni 
of Indiana University received two 
third-place votes and three fourth. Despres received one first-place
·~·~.:.~~~--~~-~-?~.;;;.~..;'!;.!;.:.~!::~ 
~ .......·.···;Ta«S; ....~.~-~~~ 
:~:~ SHOE SHOP :~ 



~ co::::T:::~:) 
:::: TOP BRAND FOOTWEAR 
I ~ 

~~~j~~\jr~  KNAPP SHOES LEATHER, AND ZIPPER REPAffi  
=~~  

~=~= A c c Es s 0 RIE s
I QUICK SERVICE ~! REASONABLE 
•.: OPEN H MON-FRI ~ 9-4 SAT 
t PH 283-1144 
i"~. y« •,, • ~ 

Chris Keen: As far as the $1000 goal is concerned, y-ou would have 




O;ii~ii' ··;xj;iCii"*'"·;esig:DatiOn 
to say that it is going slow. 
record. "The winds picked up <Saturday nightl and tore away a lot of our rigging,'' said Keen1 "so we moved to the bus stop." The readings will continue there for the remainder of the marathon. 
The footbball loss Saturday didn't help the cause, either. "Donations jwere slower than we had expected after the game," said Keen. "I guess because the students weren't in too good of a mood.'' 
Dt•spite the difficulties the readings will and do continue, and readers and contributors are still ba dly needed. '"l'l1e b rothers 
Iratermty ,.,._.~hers them-

We are setting up the rigging and supervising the marathon," Keen said. ''Rt>aders are mainly volunteers and people who just come up and want to read." 
They arP signing up at the booth and reading "as much as they want and as long as lht-y want,'' but· they an• doing it because they want to and want to help the cause, according to Kt>en. 
The Alpha Phi OmPga is a public service fralPrnity with 135,000 nwmbers nationally. The !'lotre Dame chaptt>r has Hi nll'mhers. 
Anyone 11·ishing to read or rton:tte is PIH'ouraged to sign up at 
the hoolh at :hP bus slop rwar the 
' 
) 

fourth. the brief summary of each of the 
Thecommitteede~ided~roin·~pis candi<;lates' JlUalifications, ballot and the ensumg d1scuss1;Jn fn" owmg the nume, in~ 1 res11Ita that Kurtz and Voss were the 4~te:l in the letter to Crosson. 

"stronger candidates" and that Despres and Scanzoni were the "weaker candidates," according to the letter sent to Crosson. 
"In order to reach a greater consensus so that our recom­mendation would carry more weight with the Dean, we had a second ballot," O'Neil explained. 
The second ballot consisted of two votes: one between the two "stronger candidates" and one between the two "weaker can­didates." Kurtz won unanimously over Voss, and Despres received only one vote against Seanzoni. Consequently, in its letter to Crosson the CAP ranked the four candidates as followes: Kurtz, Voss, Scanzoni and Despres, giving unanimous support to Kurtz. 
Despite finishing fourth in the ranking, Despres received a favorable review from the CAP in "Perhaps nne of the most dynamic and actively· interested candidates was Despres. Despres was quite articulate about the directions and programs our department might undertake under his leadership,'' the letter reads. 

"Despres commands a con­siderable amount of academic and professional status... Despres has had experience as a student at Notre Dame, which presumably would give a depth of insight into many facets of University life that an outsider could acquire only after months or years of ex­perience," the CAP wrote. 
"These comments reveal that the CAP far from considered Despres unacceptable as was previsouly reported," said O'Neil. "Part of this misrepresentation can be attributed to the serious lack of communication with the 
administration," he noted. 

**-•--~ *******~ ~" "*************.,'..•*** 
·: lt
PRESENTING 

: : a
1the Thursday night special i 
* 


~ ~;/:f~ $l.50 
·~f 'Jt-~~~i:r~~:bt:;~e~~ee;t;!:!~~>b~~ve
~\~~ Ia VVHITE HOusE INN' 
~ i* =~; : 
~,, * Now Playing I


Ii lii6i.itiii' 
:;:; Jf-2 8 3 9 N 5 t h 
:·:· Jf-

I * 
!
i 
: 
: 

,:
no * 
~J i 
~. i ~----.,1 : .....******************•**""****
• ... '.,.,"' J '.' 

U Jt Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 683-9842 ~ : Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north 011 highway 53, 3 

THE 
JACKSON FIVE
·in C:oncs:t SATIRDAY ocrOBER 26 
8:3 0 p.m.
A.t h I e t i c & Co n v o c a t 1o n C e n t e r TICKET SALES START TODAY 
AT THE GATE 10 TICKET 0 FFIC PRICES: $7.50 6.50 Ss·.oo 
,----~ ~--~~ 
In the MINI-MALL at TOWN & COUNTRY Shopping Cente' 

DOWN 
VESTS &SWEATERS 
JO% a=F Vtii'JH THIS AD 
ALL TOP BRAN~ OF SKI EQUPIVENr N:>W IN STOCX 
Where do MONYmen come lrom? 
From many walks of life; like 


graduating from N.D. 
Bob Roemer graduated from Notre Dame in 1973 and was signed by the Pittsburgh Pirates immediately and assigned to their Class A club In Niagara Falls. While at Notre Oame, Bob malored in management and capt a I ned the '72 · '73 Irlsh baseball team. As his first minor league season came to a close, he decided to develop himself in a business that offered In­dependence and the opportunity for unlimited income. He wanted the op. portunlty to work with and serve the Notre Dame community. He joined the MONY sales team last October. He has 
Bob Roemer, Class of '73 developed skills in the PRIME college market, personal estate planning, and health insurance planning. 
Where do MONY men go? 
As far as their own ability and  Sound interesting?  
initiative take them.  
Then  contact  Jack  Mays,  
What Bob Roemer has  done  Is  above  manager, South  Bend, 515· St.  

average. But the opportunities are st111 Joseph Bank Building. Phone 
there. It's up to you. If you have what It 233-3104 or Interview with us on 
takes, we have the career · both In sales, Campus April 4th. 
and sales management. The Insurance Industry Is growing and at MONY we've 
branched Into mutual funda and variable 
annuities. 



M0NY
MUTUAL OF NfW VORK 

Campus Interviews; 0~~ .7th and ·March loth 
•.I,•, '•' 



Saves time cmd money 
•Quickie'does the trick 
(continued from page 3) 
From McLean's viewpoint, points one and three were com­pletely fulfilled and the second one nearly so. The "Quickie" is not without its problems, however. The two main ones stem from adverse reactions to the northern run ~nd financial problems. 
Of the three buses running, the northern one carried sixty per cent of the evening's passengers. The other two split the remaining forty percent. Most people going north went to the bars -Kubiak's, Jay's, and Shula's. At one point the Michigan State Police forbade the unloading of any more students at Kubiak's because of the huge line waiting outside to get in. Op­ponents to the route claim it to be solely a "bar bus." 
In response to this criticism, McLean replied, "This system was not designed as a beer bus or a bar bus. The system is an over-all program. Realize that because we knew the Michigan route would be used most doesn't mean it was planned that way." 
Finances are the most poten­tially inhibiting factor in the shuttle. The cost for running Fiday's three buses was $340 along with an additional $30 for ad­vertisement and miscellaneous expenses, yielding a total of $370. The revenue from the evining was $74, with about $50 coming from the north route and $24 from the two south ones. 
This means a loss of $300 this time, and assuming a decreased need for advertisement, about $270 in the future. McLean transcribed this amount of money into items such as a band for one night, an open house with refreshments for 
Voice of Notre 
Darm football 
dies Sunday 
Van Patrick, the voice of Notre Dame football over the Mutual Broadcasting radio network for the past several years, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. He was 58. 
Patrick was a veteran of 34 years behind a sports microphone, an­nouncing during his career for the Detroit Tigers, Detroit Lions, and the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. He was sports director of the Mutual network and former sports announcer for WJBK-TV, Detroit. 
Only Friday, Patrick had taped a pre-game show with h1ead football coach Ara Parseghian for broadcast Saturday prior to the Purdue game. Saturday afternoon he was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital, where he passed away the following afternoon at ap­proximately 1:30 p.m. 
Roger Valdiserri, director of 
Sports Information at the 
University,_ reported that C?ac,h 
Parseghian, was told of Patnck s 
death while watching films of the 
Purdue game yesterday a~tern~n. 
Quite shaken, Parsegh1an said, 
"Van and I had become very good 
friends and Notre Dame has in­
deed lost a great friend." 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
two thousand people at La For­tune, or a big party for ~ll the residents of a hall the s1ze of Flanner or Grace. Yet he felt "not perturbed over the loss" because of the value of a shuttle off cam­pus. 
Part of the costs in the future may be defrayed by donations received by the Ombudsman In­formation Desk which will operate during home football games. This weekend, $22 ·was received. 
Most likely the southern routes will be consolidated into one making an evening's ·bill out to be $260. If a fare of $.25 is charged for all rides instead of the current $.25 for the first trip and $.10 for each additional ride the deficit would be cut to $100-$110 per evening. This is still considered "unacceptable." 
A figure of a $30-$50 loss per run is being looked for. 
The losses on the first run will be 
covered by Student Government 
funds. 


DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. "74 C.,n'l Features Corp. 
ACROSS 1 Elephant of children's tales 
6 -town 10 Strike: Slang 14 "Aida" or 
"Carmen" 15 Soup flavoring 16 Family member 17 Oenophile's pride 19 Solar disk 20 Of present times 21 Whim 22 Indian 23 Salespeople 24 Well-known 
uncle 27 Break suddenly 29 Contents of a 
nose bag 30 Entangle 32 Sources of great
wealth 36 In the year: Lat. 37 Pewter, for one 38 County in 
Ireland 39 Famed New D 1 ea edr t)
41 Piece ( ou 42 Basketball team 43 Hold back 
46 McMahon and reptile namesakes 12 Nearly vertical: 47 Hindu hereditary Naut. 
classes 13 Fuel containers 49 Fencing sword 18 Emerald Isle 51 About 21 Deception 52 "A-Named 23 Buffalo Bill 
Desire" 24 Head the bill 57 Far Eastern 25 River in Italy native 26 Puppet: Phrase 58 Sidney Kingsley 28 V.otin~ places 
play, 1933 31 Sttuatlons 59 Diagram 33 Irish sweepstakes 60 Chills and others 61 De Valera 34 Loo~ed over 62 Cuts wood 35 Nat1v-: lands 63 Polka --37 The btrds 64 African antelope 40 Con~tantly 
44 Beg~n
DOWN 45 Baseball's Mr. 1 Football field Reese. 2 Seaport of Samoa47 Vacation areas 3 Propensity 48 City in Lombardy 4 Rugged ridge 50 Cetyl alcohol 5 Speedway 52 Lily of Utah 
contestants 53 Cap for a 6 Former U.S. coin crosstop bolt 7 Sooner State: 54 Mountain peak: 
Abbr. It. 8 Kitchen container 55 "Like -of 
9 Sweep bricks" 10 Leisure 56 Tear asunder 11 Aquatic 58 Senseless 
..................~ 
The system will most likely not run again this Friday. The only chance is that of a bus going to Scottsdale. In revising the present system, more emphasis will be placed on the southern route. 
Mary Siegel, the Assistant Commissioner, and Guiltinan are investigating the possibility of a ten per cent student discount at the stores and theatres of Scottsdale and possibley the Town and Country shopping center. This would help to • provide · a place for off-campus socialization and as Guiltinan put it, "There is a need for people to get away from the campus for a while.'' 
As the system is the students', it will survive only if positive student feed-back is received through the various student organizations and the Observer. If there is little support the shuttle may be significantly curtailed or elimmated. 


i
i 
:
•
. 
~ 

: X :eo~~~ 
e ,x LIVE aCXE SHOw 
1316 SaJrH MICH.IGAN STREET 
212-J.~!U9Jl.~~QMWJ2tl, 
IVJICHIGAN STBEE.T 



ADULT THEATRES 

X 2 F1LIVB 
:·
i 
:
•
.
: 
1 
I• 
• • 1 'f I • t 'o \~ ~· t I 

Monda · tember 3!), lt74 





CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Two Ulrls to share large 15 rooni 
' house, family room & kitchen privileges. $100 per mo. Phone·~~ 0062. 
tn desperate ne1ed of 4 GA tickets for the' Miami game. Please. ·*•I}
Rich, 6981. · 
~~------·------~~ 
Need two Rice tickets, GA:.sjp.Call Tom, 8634. 
Need riders to Kent, Ohio. Frl, afternoon. Call Bob, 1152. ~ 
, Need 2 to 4 tic.kets for Rtc;e glitftw. Pat, 272-5459. · 
Ur'!lentty needed: 4 G~ fix. Mlaml\ Jean. 6944. 
Needed: Iticket fo Michigan S.t•. Call Mary, 7889. 
Wanted: 8 ticketS to Miami g'ame,· Call 255-7034 between 10.:00 .:and 
5:00. . 
Desperately n~ld ride to St. LOUis Oct. 10-11. Will share expenses. 
Call Kevin• 8730. 
Wanted: 2 GA tix for Pitt. ~it Larry, 288-7375.. 
Desperatel~ need 1 GA ticket foi'i' Rice and 4 for F''itt. Call Beth, ~l.U. 
Wanted:' two (2) GA tickets for. Miami. Call 2811-4303. · 
Desperately need two GA tix for· · Army. Call Ral,j, 1612. 
Need ride to Tulsa~ Oct. break. Expenses shan!d. Joe, 283-1205. Wanted: I Rice fix. Call 2114·4311. Wanted: 2 Army fix. Call 28'7·0076; 
• Need 2 tickets to Mich State game .• DESPERATE! Call 8143. 
Need 2 GA Pitt tickets. Will payf Sue, 6771. 
Desperately need 4 GA fix for Pitt. Call Dan, 1739. 
Need ride to Lexington, Friday~ October 4. Call Phil, 8436. 
Wanted: one student ticket .for Rice game.' Call Liz, 8144. 
Wanted: General Admission tlx for Miami game. Call Jerry, 232-~ before 4 pm; 233-6160 after 10 pm. 
Desperately needed: 2 p're...y. concert tickets. Willing to pav. well. Phone 259-0408 after 5 .PIIn. 
Need six Miami tickets. Pay fGJl dollar. 272-962~~-· · 
Desperately nt!ed GA fix ·for .jlr(t home game. Don,, 1213. 
Need 4 Michigan State tickets/c;il 3683. 
wanted: May Fair Restwait~ra;.~, 10-11 pm. Parttime or full' ti'tne.\ Must be 21. $1.25 plus tl~. ~iss: 
5517. . 
Needed: 2 Rice'GA tlx and 4Army GA tix. Cali .John or Kathy, 282·· 1568. 
Needed: 2-4 tlx. Pitt and-or 111\lamh C!!li Ma~k~ 3~:!0 .. 
PERSONALS 

To Supergtrt: 
(!heck your hmrits balis. :qreen Kryptonite. ·· r-,tot-so.-sup4!rman· 


To a Rambfln• ViiARlC: Fr;om capguns to weddindJf~ 1t's; been a long 4 ~MOt Congratulations and ~. fU~; 
The old 2nd floor. · 
'fo Chutnpl 'rhl"ftcio ts::t~ 
Happy Micf\I'Oei1f;,.. ~~~ --·~ The r:resii Fr~·· . 
--"'-'-.~~.t....,..+-,.o..~·-~-...... 
Second Main wishes its .honCJted · Section Le~er a Happy Bi~fh<layi 
a.QJ1t·~N~,~~Ha 

Lo$t: darkrtreen blllfotCI. vatU.b~ I0'' lost'}"' C'3. ' 
Lost $225.oo·;cash • .lletweelf ~ri 
Fieldhouse; Fletdhous~·s'hag;. 
Fitldh~ -AdministratiOn 'ldfi 
Large reward. Call 3368. .;; 
Lost: hai-d blaCl~ glass cas!! wtt'li gold-wir,l! rimmi!d.''glasses 111side. Rewar~. Call ~rl~. 287-3586. 
Lost: brown ieatfier purse in back of the Library ·Bar 9-19. lf fouilit. please call 4266. , No questions 
~ked. . ' 
Lost: brown:leather purse in ~ct of the Library Bar ·9.19. If foun~ please call 42~.•No questions
asked. · · 
Lost: 1 big black collle/4 .. WhH_e ' paws. "Rex" miss 'em! 289·3365 
Lost:. H.S. ring in 0'51\aii:lpilltlli 
room. Initials A.J.F., gold, .call 
8624. . 
Lost: silver and turquolse 
bracelet. Has great seot""*'fal · 
value. Reward. Please cdH 4~• 
Thanks. 
., -=o-R SALE 

'69 vw: AM-FM stereo, exce~p1 
condition. Best off)lr. Cal' aftetU 
PM. 283-3639. 
Brand new tennis rackets. Wllbt 
Head, all kinds. Big diseounts,.~ 
anytime, John, 1646. · "· ~ 
NOTICES 

TOM'S UNIVI:lhiTY ..SQ.& DARD AT IROI'<fWOOQ I'
STATE ROAD 2!' WtL4~. d ~ . 
YOU A FRif:E N.O. Gi..ASI!JN _·;·
A FILL-UP. 
HEAD S.TAR,T ..:"' I''h»s:,
VOLUNTEERS FOR .fT.:., ··~. NING CLASS Sit$ 'i . STUDENTS ARE llidQf&f\ . 
TEACH ECOIIIO:I,I\.~~\G. 
DISADVANTAGEtl~ fiRI<" 
SCHOOL CHIL:OREN IJI. Tttlt• 
HEAD START PROGitAM IN 
SOUTH BEND. ftEAd.'STA~t.t•s 
ORIENTATION MEETING Wl~l. 
BE TUESDAY, OCT. 1, 7:00 PM 
AT THE KNIGHT$ OF 
COLUMBUS. IF THERE ARE 
ANY QUESTIONS, PLEASI!I 
CONTACT .. MICHAEL FlTJ'f 
SIMMONS AT 8549. 
Free: 3 puppies. One 6 months;. 
others, 3 months. C;Hf'234·3730. 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT TlCK'e# NOW ON SALE At TH.E STUDENT UNION ~-fJ(fKE'f OFFICE. 
Money? 
Morrissey Loan Fund can lend you 
up to $150. Basement of LaFortune 
-dally, 11:15-12:15. 
EUPHORIA RIOCORDS, low~t price for all records, Including imports and cutouts plus weul¥ specials. 234-6535. 
D. Makietski: Your letter (acket wa~.lounc:t S.t. on the So. Quao. Ca!l. a.r.k,J$12. 
,•· .··,. I • 

TICKETS FOR .THE-~~~~· SKYNYRb-HYORA· ·~~-· ,
OCTOBER 1 AT MOI'{~S"ff .. : AUDtTORIUM ·ARE '.NOW". 
I 

SALE AT·. THE ~'rU~-.ifr IJ~i '· 
TICKET, OF~!CIE, .•. .'F'-l 
LAFORTUNE,. · " . . 
~ 1 • 1 1 ........ . 

--~--------~-----------­
8 the ........ Monday, September 30, 1974 




NDshockecL upset by Purdue 31-20 

by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
"We played one too many poor first halves," said a dejected and disappointed Ara Parseghian !after Saturday's 31-20 loss to Purdue. 
That may have been slightly understated and not completely accurate. The big problem for the Irish was the first quarter. 
With 7:22 left to play in the first period, before the last of the tailgaters had even found their seats, and before the Irish offense had even managed a first down, Alex Agase's Boilermakers had a 21-o lead. 
"We contributed to our own demise," said Ara, "that much is pretty obvious." 
The first contributor was halfback AI Samuel who on the third play of the game fumbled a Tom Clements' pitchout into the hands of Purdue's left end Rick Oliver on the ND 32. Four plays later, on fourth and one from the one, Boiler quarterback Mike Terrizzi bootlegged around right end for the score. 
After the Irish offense could manage a mere three yards in three downs, a 38 yard Tony Brantley punt put the Boilermakers on their own 44 yard line. Mike Northington was dropped for a yard loss before Terrizzi picked up five on an option keeper. On third and six from the 48, with all eyes on Larry Burton, who did catch six passes for 92 yards, fullback Pete Gross hroke off left tackle for 52 yards and the second Purdue touchdown in three minutes. 
"I guess their secondary was on our side," said Burton. "No. 41 (strong safety John Dubenetzky) came up to jam me. One of their defensive backs took the outside on me and the other took the inside. When I looked over I saw Pete was free. I couldn't believe it!" 
Neither could 59,075 stunned football fans. 
Thirty-seven seconds later the bad dream became a nightmare. This time Clements, who was no less than spectacular for most of the af­ternoon (22 of 37 for 264 yards>, was the gracious host. On second and 16 from the Irish 14 yard line Clements 'deflected pass was intercepted by 
linebacker Bob Mannella who returned the ball 21 yards for Purdue's 20th point. Steve Schmidt added the extra point putting the Irish down 21-o. 
Five minutes later Schmidt was again center stage kicking a 47 yard field goal giving Purdue a 24-G first quarter lead. Purdue's 24 first period points were the most ever scored against Notre Dame in the first quarter. 
"We had to abandon our game plan in the first quarter when they scored so rapidly," commented Parseghian. "Our fumble which they took in for the first score--the 52 yard run for their second score when were in a blitz--and the deflected pass which they ran in for their score all happened very quickly and forced us to abandon our normal at­tack." 
The "normal attack" became more of a two man attack in the form of Clements to split end Pete Demmerle, who, despite tonsilitis and a pulled muscle, was again brilliant grabbing eight passes for 121 yards and a touchdown. 
Clements hit Demerle twice in the 12 play, 80 yard scoring in the opening minutes of the second quarter. Along with Fullback Wayne Bullock's 22 yards, the last two accounting for the score, the Irish had their first pointspf the afternoon. 
From that point on the defense, led by linebackers Greg Collins, Drew Mahalic and Marv Russell was no less than superb. They played fired-up football in the second half allowing the Boilermakers less than 100 yards total offense and, most notably, gave the Irish "0" numerous op­portunities to get on the board. 
ND took advantage of such an opportunity early in the third period. After the defense had allowed Purude only one yard in three plays, sophomore Mark\Vitali, who replaced Terrlizzi at quarterback and also handled the punting chores, fumbled the snap from center and was forced out of bounds short of a first down. 
A five-play 26 yard drive ensued with Bullock diving over from the one. Dave Reeve added the extra point closing the gap to ten, 24-14. 
Three minutes later Collins recovered another Vitali fumble on the Purdue 23, but four plays later the offense stalled when a fourth down pass to halfback Ron Goodman was incomplete and the Boilers regained possession. 
Purdue failed to move and punted again but four plays and an ineligible 
receiver downfield penalty later, the Irish returned the favor with Brantley's punt going out of the end zone. Again Agase's squad got nowhere and Vitali punted to Goodman who returned the ball to the Purdue 43. Four Clements' passes brought the Irish to the Purdue 26 where on fourth and five a Clements to Demmerle pass was out of the end zone. 
"When we scored early in the third quarter to make it 24-14 we felt we 
•"­
t 
~ ­

A thorn In the Irish side all day, Purdue's Larry Burton grabs cne of his six receptions. 

The two top men, Tom Clements and Ara Parseghian, contemplate Saturday's gloomy predicament. 
we had a good chance to go on and win," explained Parseghian. "But we just couldn't capitalize sufficiently on our opportunitites after that point. I felt we were still in the ball gamP until they got their 31st point." 
That . came nine and a half minutes into the final period after Clements was intercepted by Jim Wood on the Irish 40. Five plays later on fourth and one Nor­thington took a pitchout and scored around left end. With the con­version Purdue had the lead and the ball game 31-14. 
Clements never gave up. He took the Irish 94 yards for a score hitting Demerle with a pretty 29 yard touchdown pass, but with 4:37 left it wasn't enough. 
"I didn't realize we were going to lose until there were about three minutes left," said Demmerle. "I didn't ever think it would happen." 
"We should have put them away," added tackle Steve Sylvester. "I don't know why we didn't but we should have." 
Ara may have been just as puzzled. For a moment he looked past the more obvious realities of blocking, tackling and execution. "I guess having a player on the cover of Time or Sports Illustrated," he said, "is still the kiss of death." 

Extra Points 


You can blame it on complacency. You can blame it on Parseghian. you can even blame it on Sports Illustrated. But no matter how you look at Saturday's fiasco, it is obvious that Notre Dame could not come up with the big play when it needed it. 
With a backfield already decimated by injuries and suspension, the Irish seemed to lack the breakaway speed to get back into the ball game. And when Notre Dame did advance into Purdue territory, they couldn't convert on important fourth down situations. 
For the day, the Irish backs could muster a long gain of only 29 ·yards. Halfbacks Ron Goodman and Russ Kornman combmed for a paltry 12 yards on 12 carries. Only the passing of quarterback Tom Clements (22-37 for 264 yards) kept the Notre Dame offense moving. 
The Irish clearly gave the game away in the first quarter. But in the last three periods, they displayed no national championship character when the Boilermakers refused to roll over and give them back their ball game. 
Notre Dame played like Purdue was supposed to. They made costly mistake· after costly mistake. 
They let the other team control the ball on the ground. And they foolishly changed their game plan after quickly falling behind. 
Against Purdue, the Irish offense ran only 47 times for 143 yards. After relinquishing a record 24 first quarter points, Clements annd Company neglected their running game for a wide open aerial circus. Instead of using their bread-and-butter attack, they were forced into playing quick catch-up football right into the hands of the opportunistic Purdue defense. · 
Purdue played like the five touchdown favorites they were not. The . Boilermakers ran through the vaunted Irish line when they had to, they made the crucial third down plays when they had to, and they stopped the Notre Dame offense when they had to. They committed but one turnover in the game and they were penalized only once. 
Behind an awesome defensive performance by tackle Ken Novak, the Purdue defense pressured Clements and stifled four Irish drives inside their own 
35-yard line. The Boilermaker quarterbacks Mike 
Terrizzi and Mark Vitali, seeing their first action 
against a Notre Dame team, passed sparingly but 
effectively as the Irish secondary was preoccupied 
with speedster Larry Burton. 
Basically, Purdue played inspired football. After 
Notre Dame's fatal early turnovers, they sensed the 
upset and managed to stall off the Irish comeback 
effort. 

Along· with everything else, Notre Dame seemed fated to lose their first home opener in six years. The Irish carried the. nation's longest winnin_gstreak into the game with thirteen consecutive victories. No Big Ten team had defeated Parseghian in 52 games. And Purdue hadn't bested the Irish since the days of Mike Phipps. 
The Boilermakers also .had a history of spoiling Irish seasons. In 1950, they stopped a 39-game wi.nning streak for Notre Dame; in 1954, they ter­mm~ted a 13-game string for coach Terry Brennan; and m 1967, they halted Ara Parseghian's previously longest skein at 11 games. Purdue coach Alex Agase was also about due for a win, losing to Parseghian eight straight times. 
As the game progressed, it seemed the Irish could do nothing right. Samuel fumbled, Clements threw into the arms of Purdue's Bob Manella, and the Notre Dame line was burnt on a 52-yard touchdown run by fullback Pete Gross. 
The Irish backs seemed to be forever slipping and falling, while their Purdue counterparts glided through their tasks. Clements, fresh off the cover of Sports Illustrated, was not his usual sharp self. In a day of oddities, Notre Dame even fell victim to two ineligible receiver penalties. 
Overall, it was plainly not Notre Dame's day. With the loss the Irish joined Southern California, Nebraska, Penn State and Texas (among others) as teams who have fallen in this year of the upset. While the defeat seriously ·diminishes any championship aspirations, it also makes evident the reality, however harsh, that even Notre Dame loses a football game now and then. 





