
, 
.... I ' I I ' ... 
I
' ; .•.t.l 
OD The Inside 
COUP report 
... page 3 
Father Griffin 
... page 7 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community 
Friday, February 1, 1974

Vol. VIII, No. 70 
Teacher, Course Evaluations -effective ? 
Embalming fluid stolen 

Caretakers found stabbed to death 
by DONALD B. THACKREY 

OAKLAND, Calif.(UPI>-The bodies of three mortuary em­ployess were found Thursday in a funeral home where they had been stabbed and hacked to death by assailants who apparently stole bottles of embalming fluid. 
One of the victims was lying on the floor of the chapel between blood-spattered pews. . . 
The killings, which police said look place befor.e mu;lnight, ~ame just two days after four persons w.ere shot and ~died m a series of random slayings across the bay m San Francisco. 
Police said the mortuary assailants appar~ntly stole seve!al bottles. of embalming fluid, and dropped one which broke. Nothing else appeared to be missing. . . Deputy Police Chief Thomas Donahue ~a1d the~e was no evi­dence to connect the Oakland and San""ranciscoslaymgs. 
The bodies in the mortury were found a day after a long-so~ht killer known as "Zodiac" sent a letter to the San Frans1sco Chronicle claiming responsibility for :rl n!urders,. . 
"Zodiac" has definitely been linked to six slaymgs su~ce ~966-­four by shooting and two by stabbings.. The l~tt~r was his first to \he newspaper in three years, and pollee satd tt appeared to be genuine.
The victims in the latest murders were Clarence Br~ant! a 
caretaker at the Albert Brown mortuary for 18 years; his wtfe, 
Doris, and Michael Moors, 24, an apprentice embalmer. The 
Bryants were in their 70s. All lived at the mortuary. . 
In San Francisco police searched for a 1969 black Cadtllac used 
by at least two black men who committed the ra~d~m m.urders. All 
of the victims were white, as were the three victims m the mor­
tuary slayings. . . 
San Francisco pollee said reponse to appeals for ~elp had been 
"great," but Police Commission President Dr. Washmgton Garner 
said officers had received "close to lOO"calls from persons 
believed to be white threatening retaliation because of reports the 
killers are blacks. . 
"I just d<m't feel that it's a racist thing," Garner said. 
University receives results 
by David Kaminski Staff Reporter 

Nearly six weeks ago, students throughout the University were taking part in a familiar procedure. While their professor left the classroom, they passed around computer forms and rubber-banded bunches of pencils, the!l began filling out the Teacher and Cour~e Evaluation. Now, after weeks of computer analysts, printing, categorizing, sorting and addressing of en­velopes, the University is receiving the-results of its most recent evaluation. 
Who receives the informaton, and how is it used? More importantly, is the Teacher and Course Evaluation aneffective tool in improving teaching at Notre Dame? In order to begin answering these questions, perhaps it is best to first look at the origins of the evaluation. 
Justified by performance 

Fr. William Botzum, professor of psychology, 
designed the first evaluation for the College of Arts and Letters in 1968. Mter two years in the college, Fr. James T. Burtchaell, Notre Dame provost, urged that the evaluation be modified so that the whole University could use it. 
There were two main reasons for originating the Evaluation: to give students some input into decisions of faculty tenure and promotion, and to continually upgrade the quality of teaching at Notre Dame. 
"An undergraduate institution justifies itself by ~e good performance of its teachers. If teaching is not its main function, then the institution has no reason to exist," says Assistant Dean Richard J. Thompson of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Dean Thompson chaired a committee of deans, department chairmen and students throughout the University which gave the evaluation its most recent major revision in the summer of 1972. At that time, the grade of "F" was dropped from the evaluation, the 

• !-' •• ~ 
premise being that no professor could possibly fail in one of the cateJ;!ories. 

Observer lnsi1Jht 
The male-female identification was dropped in one of the most recent changes in the evaluation. According to Coordinator for Analytical Studies Mr. Charles McCollester some women students complained that in the case w~re there are very few women in a class, their evaluations might be identified. However, McCollester states that past figures showed a significant difference in the way that men and women scored their teachers. 
Each individual instructor receives a course level summary, which indicates his average scores. The department chairman receives a copy of each teacher's course summary, as well as a departmental summary, showing the average grades for the department. 
The dean of a college receives the individual sum­maries the departmental S'lmmaries, and a college summ~ry. The college summary establishes an average for all the teachers in the college. 
SMC Tucson Program postponed for se.~~..~!!!tory of llie 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's Tucson Program, which began last semester was "postponed" for this semesterdue to an insufficient enrollment according to Pr~gram Director Sister Gertrude Anne. 
The program, offering SMC students the opportunity to live in and study about the Southwest for one semester, will be continued first semester next year, she ad­ded. 
"Only three girls signed up for the program this semester." stated Co-ordinator of Off Campus Programs Sr. Alma Peter: However, she noted "a genume interest" in the program for next semester among SMC students, and said that the 20-student maximum will be reached. 
"The program in Tucson met our highest expectations, in terms of academic results, developed contacts in Arizona, and recruiting in Arizona high schools," com­mented SMC President Dr. Ed­ward Henry. 
"Our program was new, and as a result enrollment fell below our break:even point," he continued. "However, I'm very optimistic about the program." 
a unique program 
The program, which established the first Catholic college campus in the state of Arizona, "was different from the regular colle~e hfe, Southwest, socio-cultural aspects observered Suzall!l~ Fitz~leyer' of the Southwest, desert biology' one of seven participants m the native arts, such as weaving and pr~gra~l last semester. jewelry-making, and community 

The Ide~ of the progr~m was to studies, which explored local ~1ake available.~ creative, v.:en-government through the city mtegrated, exciting al~ernative, council, Model Cities program, and away from the St. Mary s College the Juvenile Courts Center. campus. Tucson was chosen "Another distinctive charac­because t~e ~o~th~est offers a teristic of the educational program culture quite distinctive, by _reaso~ was the on-going integration of the of. the cross-cultural heritage,. field experience with the 
said Sr. Gertrude. . . classroom experience" said Sr. 
Courses offered wer.e uruque m Gertrude. ' that.the~ explored various as~ts Thus,Monica Brinck, who spent of life m the Southwest•. which last semester in Tucson, said, "We 
according ~0 the program director • could study about an old mission or are essentially ~ken for granted Indian pictographs in class, and by most schools m the area. within one hour be there and be 
able to see it!" 
During the semester, the students took two major trips. The first was to the south of Tucson, and into Mexico, touring several Spanish missions, explained Sr. Gertrude. 
The second, a more extended four-day trip included stops at trading posts on the Navajo-Hope Reservation, Salt River Canyon, Petrified Forest, Painted Desert, Lake Powell, and the Grand Canyon. 
"We learned about the culture down there. Classes were very small and informal, and we learned in a different way. The program made learning a lot more fun becaue the subjects were related to the area that we were living in," said Beth O'Laughlin, another Tucson veteran. 
(continued on page 9) 

The SMC program established the first Catholic campus in Arizona. 
Fimilly, the Provost's office receives the depa.rt­mental and college summaries for the entire University, as well as a summary of, the .University­wide averages. However, the Provost s office does not directly receive any information on individual teachers. 
Department chairman comment 
McCollester and Thompson both agree that the department chairmen are the most important link in the evaluation. According to Thompson, the depart­ment chairmen have the responsibility to consult with an individual teacher when his evaluation shows consistently good or bad marks. 
McCollester says, "The whole system works or doesn't work through the department chairmen." 
One department chairman, Professor Edward Vas~ of the department of English, suggest, however, that It is not that easy to confer with a faculty member on the scores he receives. 
Evaluate professor-good or bad 
Vasta claims that while the evaluation will tell a chairman or a professor what is good and bad about the course, itcannot tell why, which would be the basis of a 
discussiOn. 
"I don't know how to account for the ratings given. 
They are purely descriptive, not analytical," Vasta 
said. 

Instead, Vasta believes that it is up to the individual 
teacher to interpret his scores and use them to improve 
his teaching. 

Professor Salvatore Bella, chairman of the depart­ment of management, agrees with Vasta that the real value of the evaluation is with the individual teacher. Bella points out that the scores are only one factor in evaluating a teacher or a course, and must be carefully interpreted. 
Bella is concerned about students grading teachers and courses for the wrong reasons. "I fear that students may sometimes confuse their difficulty or repugnance for a given subject with their reactions to the teacher." . , . . . , 
(continued on page 4) 



warld 

briefs 

PAGO PAGO, American Samoa <UPI)-A Pan American World Airways Boeing 707, heading for Pago Pago Airport in an intense thunderstorm, smashed into a hill Thursday and burst into flames killing 93 of the 101 aboard. 
One person is missing, and the seven survivors, mostly Americans, were brought to Samoa's. hospital where five were reported in serious condition. Airline officials said most of the victims died from the fire while trapped in the blazing wreckage. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The Special Prosecutor's office, breaking a long silence about speculation that John Dean III might be charged with perjury, said Thursday it possessed no evidence that he lied when he implicated President Nixon in the Watergate coverup. The White House reiterated its confidence in Nixon's innocence. 
HOLLYWOOD (UPI)-Samuel Goldwyn, 91, one of the last great movie moguls of Hollywood's golden era, died peacefully in his sleep Thursday at his home. The tycoon, whose colorful language led to the coining of the term"Goldwynisms," had been long ill and was released from a hospital several weeks ago after treatment for an undisclosed ailment. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Congressional sources reported that Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said Thursday he thinks the Arab oil-producing nations will raise the oil embargo toward the end of February or in the early part of March. But Kissinger was said to be less sanguine that the recent sharp increases in oil prices will be reduced. 
NEW ORLEANS <UPI)-A Marine Corps veteran shot himself to 
death Thursday an hour after he stormed into a college library and 
seized three hostages whom he promised to guard against a 
"rocket attack." The hostages were released unharmed. 

The ex-leatherneck had suffered a bullet wound in the head in 
Vietnam , but had survived to become a straight-A business 
student. · 
...CIUftpu• tellay 
friday, february 1 

4:30 p.m., lecture-"enzymatic studies on the biosynthesis of patulin," by dr. feodor lynen, room 143, nieuwland science hall, free 
6:30 pm, track-michigan bowling green field activities, 6: 30· 
running, 7 pm. 8:00pm, concert-i. geils band, ace, tickets $5.50, $4.50, $3.50. 8:00pm, duplicate bridge-everyone welcome, university club 9:30-1:30 am, coffeehouse-frank d'ambra, chuck beck, jim ernzen, 
rick walters, and charlie shreck, milkshakes available, smc coffeehouse 3:00-7:00 pm, mardi gras-stepan center, $.75 
saturday, february 2 

8:30am, workshop on small children-sr. m. rita clair; mrs. jean battle; sr. m. margaretta; patricia bingham; sr. maria assunta., registration in madeleva hall 12 noon, basketball-nd vs. davidson, ace 3-6 pm & 7-12pm, mardi gras-stepan center $.75 
sunday, february 3 

3-8 pm, mardi gras-stepan center, $.50 2-5 pm, art exhibit-paintings by susan golubski,· upper moreau gallery (by little theater), free 
2-5 pm art exhibit-opening for indiana printmaker show; collections from traveling competitive show; includes etchings, lithos, silkscreen, etc., moreau gallery free 
10 am-5 pm weekdays, art exhibit-"baroque works from the permanent collection" faculty of the university of minnesota, notre dame art gallery O'shaughnessy hall, free pm-5 pm weekends, art exhibit-"dorothy miner memorial exhibition"-don vogl, notre dame art gallery O'shaughnessy hall, free 



MEETING 
FOR ALL THE 

FRESHMEN 
WHO WISH TO JOIN THE 
STUDENT MANAGERS ORGANIZATION 
Mon., Feb. 4, 197 4 ACC Auditorium' 
7:00pm ....... 
An Tostal weekend plans include concerts, party 
by Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
General plans for this year's An Tostal weekend at Notre Dame were announced by Wally Gasior, executive coordinator of the Hall President's Council and An Tostal chairman. 
The festivities will take place from Thursday April 18 to Saturday April 20. A free concert is once again scheduled for Friday April 19, and a package deal fo~ an ACC concert and Armory party on Saturday will be offered. The groups for both concerts have yet to be announced. 
A small turnout at the first meeting for An Tostal prompted Gasior to repeat his request for more people. "It's a free weekend. 
We're interested in new ideas and new people," said Gasior. 
An Tostal is Gaelic for "the festival" and has had a brief history at Notre Dame of under a decade. Gasior hopes it to be a lasting tradition. Over the three­day period games and activities let the "!he frustrations out from the students in a Gaelic celebration," commented Gasior. 
Past events have included, 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
besides the concerts and armory party, the decathlon, imitation contest, tug-of-war, jello toss, dunking booth, jail, trivia bowl, and many more. The most original idea from a hall receives the Jim 
E. Brogan Memorial Award. 

Brogan, an ND alumnus who is almost a legend at An Tostal, will probably return this yeat to host various activities. 
For more information contact Wally Gasior in room 107 Dillon phone 1528. ' 
"The beginning of wisdom is to hold the Lord in reverence." 
Begin by taking the time to pray and meditate together. 
OVERNIGHT RETREAT in AUGUSTA HALL, SMC 
Feb. 1, 5:30pm-Feb. 2, 5:30pm SMC & NO students, $5.00, includes all meals. 
Contact Sister Pat, 4118 or Father McCormick, 4769 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
Thru June 15th, 1974. 

HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 

Fr>iday, February 1.-1974 


In teaching, research 



Improvements sought 
by James Rosini and Pattie Cooney Staff Reporters 

This is the seventh in a series of articles by The Observer examining in depth each area considered by the Committee on University Priorities. 
Today's article deals with teaching and research. 
Faculty associations rarely look into the improvement of teaching. Among administrators, explicit statements of support for good teaching are counterbalanced by emphasis on other faculty con­cerns. 
There is a vice president in charge of research, but there is no officer at any level on the Notre Dame campus charged specifically with the im­provements of teaching. 
These are only a few of the topics 
into which The Task Force on 
Research and Instruction delved. 
The Task Force was set up as a 
branch of the Committee on 
University Priorities (COUP) to 
investigate teaching and research 
at Notre Dame. 
teaching proposals 

After evaluating the Task Force's findings, COUP, "in order to have a care for our younger faculty, to help them better their teaching," recommended: 
1) University and collegiate en­couragement for departmental initiatives in teaching, including designation of appropriate persons whose task would be to support good teachers and help others become such. 2.) Improvement of teaching evaluation so that teaching competence is better reckoned for promotion and tenure. 3.) Encouragement of new ways of teaching as well as fresh ap­proaches to organizing classes and presenting new subjects. 4.) Inclusion of teaching as part of graduate student education and evaluation and attempts at the undergraduate level to involve students in a sharing of teaching work wherever· possible. · 5.) Establishment of an option of writing a doctoral thesis, where proper to the field, which could be more a work of synthesis than analysis. 
Frederic J. Crosson, Dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters, is strongly in favor of the recom­mendations. "They are not only realistic, but essential to impliment our teaching." asserted Crosson. "It is not only important to keep up, but also to develop our teaching 
goals." 
"Research is fundamentally 
justifiable by the service it renders 
to our teaching enterprise," said 
Crosson. "But since we are not a 
research institution fun­
damentally, we are engaged in 
teaching." 
"We haven't g,iven sufficient 
attention to teaching as a 
profession," Crosson continued. 
"Being a university professor is a 
profession, and the attention of 
many academic faculty members 
has not been devoted to their 
primary focus-teaching," 
Crosson added. 
"We can do a great deal to develop the skills of our teachers," said Crosson. "We have assumM that it would grow by itself in the chronological years of the professor." Crosson further ex­plained saying that more had to be done to help the teacher over his teaching career. 
cooperative learning 

Commenting on the proposals of COUP Crosson said that he would like to' see the latter half of point four emphasized. "We need all of the students and faculty as ' 
-.... :• ... ~ ............. . 
well .. .in a cooperative learning 
effort," explained Crosson. "By bringing students into an active side of teaching we can also help them learn how to teach." 
Dr. Robert E. Gordon, Vice President for Advanced Studies and a member of the Task Force, agreed with Crosson on the point of the teaching and research im­balance. ''The encouragement of research and the encouragement of teaching is at an inbalance," asserted Gorden. "A specific officer should be given the charge to develop innovative teaching." 
college or a research institute. The activities of a college include scholarship and instruction without an emphasis on research. A research institute emphasizes scholarship and research, b!Jt does not necessarily provide formal instruction. 
I 

As the task force stated,I"Scholarship is directed to the · assimilation and preservation of 
accumulated knowledge,
experience and understanding. It 
is a necessary precondition for 
both research and instruction." 

Gordon then had this to say about the Task Force, "The Task Force was given free license to examine all areas and they covered a wide range of topics. I thought that there was a tremendous amount of effort put into the Task Force." 
Gordon did say that he thought the five major recommendations were realistic but he indicated that there were more recom­mendations from the Task Force than what appeared in the COUP report. 
Gordon also said that he thought that the Task Force didn't talk enough about the guiding and advising of students as to course selecUon and career orientation. 
Encourage research 

"Research is concerned with the enl~rgement of knowledge, art and understanding through the discover of w~t was previously unknown, the invention of what was previoUsly unknown, the in­vention of what previously did not exist, and the development 
· through synthesis of insi'ghts, models or theories for better un­derstanding of what is known. Thtis, research is a necessary (although, certainly, not a suf­ficient) condition for a university," states the COUP report on teaching and research. 
The report explains that it is scholarship, together with in­struction and research that distinguishes a university from a 
HELD OVER! 
Second Bi Week 





Spring Semester Auditions 
To secure an audition and for more -information, call 283-6352 between 
. 

·:~'~'-.<<<<..>.).:·>:.··:··,\S:·•.(.:·.'-.'·/:•.'··.'<:.' · ... , , 4:.3 0. ,-.. 6. , . · 
' 
CaII 288-8488 for time and directions 
Dr. Francis Kobyashi, Assistant Vice-President for Research and Sponsored Programs, concurs with this idea. "Scholarship must precede 
, research. I believe we must participate in both scholarship and research. Scholarship is needed for instruction, and we must provide both in order to function as a university. Research is an in­tegral part of the university's 
environment," he said. 
The report emphasized the need for the University to encourage its faculty to engage in research projects. These projects can be funded either by the University's annual budget or outside sources. 
The first recommendation of the 1·esearch task force was: "That all members of the faculty be responsible for exploring all possibilities of subvention for research from sources outside the 
; University." 
1 (continued on pare 9) 

Mardi Gras Chairman Stephen Boy reported one camera valued at $500 and two full kegs of beer stolen last night at the Mardi Gras Ball. The camera was the property of a Mardi Gras committee member, 
A.J. Schwartz. An estimated crowd of 200 attended the dance which signaled the start of Mardi Gras week. 
RIVERPARK
-----..·---·--·· 
MISHA.I'I.J\K!I.AV(NUf AT 30TH 


Notre 
Dame Glee Club 

THE ROMA 
welcomes all Notre Dame & St. Mary1 s students your host Frank Anastasio 
This weekend only -a first in South 
Bend -dance to the rock sounds of 
The Free Spirit Trio PIZZA + FINE ITALIAN FOOD + LIQUOR For deliveries call 234-3258 
UPSTAIRS IN THE ATTIC live acoustical music -no cover! 
THE ROMA + 219 N. Mich Ave+ Downtown South Bend 
Atltletic and




NOTRE BAM.£ 
Convocation Celter 

Ticket Prices: I Tl.ckets on saltt: . llta,..s ••• : ••.••••$t;~ iiOTfi. DAf1,E1 A. C. C. Mon.~· Sat. 9 ta 5 Lower lrHI ••••••••$(5t Rollert101 SSouth Bend & Concord Mall lain Fllor •~-••-•••• $5.50 Sl Jeseph Balk -and bra~ches ·L~I ••••.•.••..••.$5.51 first B..k -Moin office only Plitform •_•• _•••••-SS.St Elkhart Truth 
FOR MAll Ga&E.A: State number & price of tickets .desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. J. Geils·Bond. Send to J. Geils Band Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana .46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 
'learafter vcar, semester Iattcrscmcstcr, the CollcgeMastcr· from Fidclitv Union Life has lx.-cn the most accepted, 
most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidclitv Union 
CollegeMaster·· Field Associate in your area: 
\' 
the,obser.ver. Fr!day, February 1, 1974 
Student evaluations prove helpful,objective 
(continued from page 1) 

"I also worry that the student 
may ·confuse a generous grader 
with a good teacher, and rate him 
highly," Bella commented. 

Professor Jeremiah P. 
Freeman, chairman of the 
department of chemistry, believes 
that in many ways the Teacher and 
Course Evaluation is not of 
significant importance to his 
department. 

"The problem is that there is a 
different situation here than may 
be present in English or 
philosophy. We don't teach multi­
section courses, so there can be no 
comparative rating of one's'per­
formance over another's, in order 
to form the basis of discussion." 
Freeman said. 

Freeman stated that in science 
the teacher often plays the role of 
an organizer and some students 
wouldn't need the teacher if they 
only had the text book. Therefore, 
the rating of the teacher is not as 
important. 

"I don't think the evaluation 
form is very useful," Freeman 
concludes. "An informal system 
seems to work here better than the 
standard evaluation." 

are students irresponsible? 
The Teacher and Course 
Evaluation would seem to offer the 
student the opportunity to grade a 
teacher maliciously or irrespon­
sibly. One teacher relates the 
experience of one of his colleagues 
who examined the computer 
responses before he handed them 
in. The teacher discovered that 
one student in his large lecture class filled out several forms, all with the lowest possible marks. However, various studies of the computerdata seem to demonstrate 
that irresponsible or malicious 
grading is an unusual 
phenomenon. 

McCollester, who has examined the evaluation data from a number of approaches, reports that there is generally no correlation between the grades a teacher receives from a class and the average report card grade he gives the class. 
Vasta states that from his studies of evaluation results he sees no significant correlation between the popularity of a given course or instructor and the evaluation from the students. 
McCollester concludes, "Wwe believe that in general students do not use the survey to get at teachers. They do not grade capriciously." 
Many teachers would like to see students make more use of the optional essay form which ac­companies the computer evaluation. The essay is returned directly to the individual teacher. 
Dean Thompson says, "We 

would like students to take time to M tt d 
write out the essay. In it, students 
can be bold and challenging." 
However, very few students 
bother with the essay. Professor 
Vasta says that very few English 
professors use the essay because 
when they do, they get such 
disappointing returns. To combat 
this, some teachers administer the 
essay in class and have students 
hand it in at the end of the class 
period. 
participation and tenure 
Most department chairmen agree on two things concerning the Teacher and Course Evaluation: most of their faculty administer the evaluation, and the results when studied over a period of several semesters are very im­portant in considerations of faculty promotion and tenure. 
McCollester's Analytical Studies office estimates that there are from 44 to 45 thousand possible responses to the administration of an evaluation, assuming that every student takes an average of five courses and can potentially respond in every class. With this as a guide, McCollester's office received approximately 66 per cent of all potential responses. 
However, this figure can be 
adjusted. Not all classes ad­minster the evaluation. To some labs, directed readin_gs and other special courses, the evaluation 

does not apply. Considering these exceptions, the rate of response approaches 75 per cent. 
"This is a far higher response than any other school ad­minstering an evalu~1tion that we have read about," McCollester observes. "Notre Dame is unique in this regard." 
One of the most important uses of the data from the evaluation on the departmental level is for tenure and promotion con­siderations. Although the evaluation's information is only one factor in deciding if a faculty member should be promoted or tenured, appointments and promotions committees in the various departments make long 
QfqUe e ean
d 1
exten .5 Qp!O OQY 
Marquette University Associate Dean of Students .Jane Swan yesterday extended an apology to Notre Dame for the behavior of the Marquette fans during Tu~::sday night's clash between the Warriors and the Irish. 
Swan told John Macheca, Notre Dame's Dean of Students who received the call, that cases in­volving three Marquette students are now under investigation at the Milwaukee school for possible disciplinary action. 
Two students were arrested at the ACC during an altercation in the second half of the game which sent two police offieers to St. Joseph Hospital for emergency treatment. They pleadled innocent to charges of disorderly conduct Wednesday after nl[)on in St. Joseph County Superior Court and will appear for trial on April 15. 
The third student involved in the possible disciplinary proceedings was removed from the ACC Tuesday night intoxicuted. 
In contacting Macheca, Swan asked for Notre Dame'·s version of the behavior of the Marquette students. Also, Swan requested a copy of ND's rules governing the use of alcohol on campus, which Macheca mailed to her. 
Marine speaks about 
Careers in military l«:JW 
by Mary Beth Mungovan Staff Reporter 
Marine Captain Thomas C. Rink spoke at the Notre Dame Law School Thursday afternoon to recruit seniors and law students to a career as a Judge Advocate in the Marine Corps. 
Captain Rink, a graduate of Notre Dame< '67) and the Notre Dame Law School ('70) and himself a Judge Advocate, described the program whereby a law student can obtain a Marine commission and become a Judge Advocate. ,"This position," said Rink, "offers training in leadership and organization as well as valuable trial experience." 
A major requirement for gaiflin:g designation as a Judge Advocate 1s commissioned rank in the Marine Corps. For the college student this is obtained through enrollment in the PLC <Platoon Leaders Class) which requires attendance at summer training sessions. Upon college graduation, the student is commissioned as an officer and 
~ 
continues to Law ISchool.

' I Law students can also seek 
' commission directly upon entry
I 
into the Marine Corps Judge Advocate \Program. Acceptance 
l ' 
~ into this program is determined by a Marine Board in Washington, after application and testing. 
Rink described the work of a Judge Advocate as mainly trial­oriented. In his four years of commission in the Marines, he has handled approximately 300 court­martial. "These include cases of murder, drug abuse, assault or just unauthorized absence;he said, "To a lesser extent, the judge advocate is also involved in ad­ministrative proceedings on disciplinary matters and legal assistance work. Salary is based on the 1·ank of the individual and \he number of years he has been in the service. 
The Judge Advocate Program has been in existence since the early 60's. Rink commented that formerly it was popular as a means of avoiding the draft. Mter termination of the draft, interest dropped off initially but recently has picked up somewhat. "More people are looking Ofll it as just another job-a good way of getting valuable trial experiE!nce before going into private practice and not necessarily the beginning of a long career in the Marines," Rink suggested. 

Marine representatives from the Officers Selection Office in Chicago will be on campus through Friday in the dining halls. 
range studies of a teacher's scores. 
As Associate Professor Thomas Fern, chairman of the art department observes, "Over a period of years, there has to be a pattern, even though specific semesters or instances may show variations." 
In addition, the evaluations of teaching assistants in various departments help determine their eligibility for some financial aid, and the possibility of temporary appointments to the faculty. 
-Finally, when it comes to deciding how valuable an in­dividual semester's evaluation really is, one concludes that the individual teacher benefits the most from his course summaries. Many faculty members who criticized various aspects of the evaluation admitted that per­sonally it was helpful to them. 
Some discover that after a few semesters, the evaluation might indicate that it is time to revise their notes and freshen up the course. Others notice a need to change textbooks in their course. 
The large number of faculty who participate in the survey would indicate that most everyone finds some value in the information. 
The Teacher and Course Evaluation is constantly being revised. In fact, Dean Thompson 


TONIGHT 
Super Scotch Night 
JW RED or BLACK 50If> 
CHIVAS ..,. 
sours 
PINCH 

collins J&B sloe ginCUTTY 
screwdrivers 
DEWARS 

Pints of Beer only 25~ 


SENIOR BAR 
Saturday Nife -DANCING 
Screwdrivers and Rusty Nails 
75~ 
Want to do something 
worthwhile for yourself? 
If you have at least two years left at Notre Dame you should investigate the Army ROTC Program on campus. 
There are openings for enlisted veterans who have the additional opportunity to apply for a one year full tuition scholarship. Veterans. may opt for either a 3 month or a 2 year active duty commitment after commissioning. 
Non-veterans interested in earning an officer's commission should inquire about the Two-Year Program. Individuals in this program are 
.eligible for two and for one-year scholarships. If you desire further information, visit the Army ROTC office on campus or call 6264. 

ArmyRare 


suggested that after the spring semester, it might be time for formanother committee and examine ways to improve the evaluation. 
One would conclude that over the history of the evaluation, to use Dr. Vasta's concluding words, "In general, it has improved and changed teaching overall and for the better." 

Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson. Mishawaka 

........... ~ 
rr 
-.-­
I 


P.O. 
A Warm Welcome 

Editor: 
This letter is addressed to the five young ladies, the "number one fans," who so roundly attacked the re~l of the student body in their letter Monday. 
"Number one fans," thank you for putting your names in order. It made them so much easier to look up. (The rewards of research!) How does it feel to "save" six thousand people from their lack of "spirit" (l bet you learned all about that word in high school) all in one lunch period? Five frosh from Farley, in light of your in­finite wisdom and experience at du lac, how many people do you think knew when the team would arrive? 
How many of them could you 
reasonably expect to find out 
between one and eight in the 
morning? Were you here last year 
to welcome back the team from the 
NIT? Two years ago did you cheer 
like crazy--on weekday nights-for 
a team that was 6-20? Were you 
here to greet the football squad 
three years ago after they drowned 
in a sea of mud at Southern Cal? If 
you had been here, you would know 
how many of us there are, and 
what we do--when it's possible to 
find out what's happening. But 
you, of course, know better, and 
are able to judge everyone on the 
basis of one incident. But then, 
that is just typical of the immature 
thinking and the tendency to 
condescendingly judge the 
students which have plagued this 
place for so long. We really are 
much better than people give us 
credit for. And we'd develop even 
further if someone would lake us 
seriously and give us a little more 
responsibility over ourselves in­
stead of always telling us what to 
do. 
Welcome to the Notre Dame 
community. You can join us 
whenever you want. 
A Senior <Name withheld by request) 


Apropos 

Editor: 
In regard to the letter submitted 
by L. K. Bradley, J.D., PhD. I 
would like to say the following. I 
find it very strange and even 
disconcerting to believe that Dr. 
Bradley would consider the taunts 

ND-SMC THEATRE announces 

TRYOUTS 
for THE BEGGAR'S OPERA by JOHN GAY SUN, FEB. 3 1 pm MON, FEB. 4, 7:30 pm 
Callbacks: Wed, Feb. 6, 
7:30 pm 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC 
Materia I for singing and acting auditions available Speech & Drama Office Rm. 109 Moreau. 
· ···''·'Open to all ND-SMC students. 
and Mrs. Wooden to be-in good taste. To myself and hopefully to the majority of other Domers, the conduct of certain individuals in Section 7 showed a complete lack of class and exhibited a type of spirit I hope Notre Dame can do without. As to the appropriateness of the famous quip of Henry Truman I can only say I am cer­tain our former President never intended that statement to support such a lowly endeavor as was undertaken that great Saturday. 
It seems that Fr. Lally has been taking heat from all sides this past year. As assistant Dean of Students he has been put into the position of a "bad man" of the campus upon whom falls some of the "dirty jobs". I am sure Fr. Lally doesn't relish the role he has had to play, but yet he has taken the position, and as I see it, done an excellent job and he should be commended. 
Unfortunately some of us have fallen into the habit of criticizing just for the sake of criticizing in­stead of attempting to seek im­pi'Ovement. But then I am just a lowly freshman who probably doesn't understand the intricacies of college life. If so I apologize to you Dr. Bradley and to the Section 7 rooters. But if I am right a letter to Coach and Mrs. Wooden from the fans in question would only be-­may I say-"apropos". 
Respectfully submitted, Robert Ryan Stanford Hall 

Poor Show, Coaches 

Dear Editor, At the ACC on January 19, 1974 against UCLA, we saw Digger Phelps get quite perturbed at the Irish fans for shouting "Bull---!" over a disputed call. We are not at all trying to justify the students' behavior because it was a rather tasteless performance. However, after viewing the Marquette game, we question whether Digger has the right to "cast the first stone." Tuesday night, fans saw two coaches acting like maniacs, actually logging more time on the court than many substitutes. If the coaches can act in this way, then the question in the minds of some fans is "Why can't we?" The results: fights breaking out all over the arena and a police officer carried off on a stretcher. The fans take their cue from the coaches and their teams. If Messrs. McGuire and Phelps feel the need to express their showmanship in public then let them join the ranks 
of pro wrestling. C'mon Digger, get off your ego trip and let's play basketball. 
Let's hope that when the team reaches the finals of the NCAA tournament in Greensboro, the national audience will marvel at the play of our team rather than the antics of our coach. 
Kevin Stewart '76 Dale Planicko '74 Jerry A. Samaniego '74 

Feeding Time 
To whom it may concern: There is a group of relatively civilized people who usually eat in the A Line of the north dining hall. On behalf of this group, we the undersigned make the following request. Will the contingent of food-throwing imbeciles who visited us Tuesday night please eat elsewhere?(A barn for instance) We realize that this is asking a lot, but we like ALine the way it is. It is seldom crowded and for the most part it has been free of the food-flinging games endured on Tuesday night. You might even enjoy the larger audience that a busier line would provide. We admit that our's is a large request. So in return for your cooperation we propose the following two-point plan: 1.) The dining hall will provide you with buckets of sloppings. These you can take back to your rooms and play with to your hearts content. 2.) On special occasions like 
Parent's Weekend, a line and trough will be set aside for you and your parents. There you can spit food in each other's faces, throw your meal across the room, and generally dehumanize yourselves in any number of creative ways. After all, we wouldn't want your parents to think that Notre Dame 
TONIGHT! OPEN 6:45 
When will the killer strike again? 
'~ ·'I ' ''' I J I ', t' ., •1 ~ J • ~ 
Friday,. February 1, 1914. . ­
doesn't recognize breeding. 
Please don't think for a minute that this letter is meant as criticism. We know that when the circus is in your blood, it is im­possible to shake. One can assume that the same is true of zoos. 
Sincerely, 
Michael Welley 
Brian McGinty 


Joys of Those Born 

Dear Editor: 
"Good grief, he certainly isn't very pretty....but he is MINE!" I held out my arms and our four day old son, all six pounds of him, was placed in my empty arms by the doctor who delivered him. Thoughts fleeting and pounding in my head rick-o-shayed around. "He's mine!" "He sure isn't cute!" "He must have good lungs, he's sure crying loudly enough." "What's that scratch on his nose?" 
A hospital lobby was never in my dreams as the place I would greet our first child, but then, this child had not been delivered from me. Somewhere high above the lobby a woman must have known the 
design she had made had been carried out, there was no turning back. The child to whom she had given life was gone. I will never know whether she was feeling a sense of love and relief or love and agony, but I'm sure that love was part of her decision. The child to whom she had given life was gone. She had given to us this wriggly, 

-..5: 
crying bundle of boy who was instantly ours. 
I write these few paragraphs as encouragement to those who may be facing a decision regarding a life. Father Griffin's recent "Thoughts" brought these to my mind again. The child you do not kill should not be a burden to you, but he or she may well be a horrible burden if that life is snuffed out. 
Almost a teenager now, together we three have been through Cub Scouts, measles, tears and snowball fights. Our son is happy, deeply concerned about others, proud to be part of our family. He knows full well that his blood and ours are not the same, but our shared love could not. be greater, our happiness no fuller. Even as I tell him again to clean up his room, itjs only reinforcing the sameness that is all sons. whether born to you or born for you. His father could not possibly'love him more, nor could I, if he had been a natural child, a biological son. The lo.ve he gives could be no stronger than that which he sowers upon us. He'll grow to be a wonderful man, by whatever road he chooses. 
Have no fear that a child you place for adoption will grow up with that adoptive status as a handicap. It just isn't true! A son is just that, a son. A daughter is a daughter and all the joys and tears are never lessened by being adopted, however, it may be that the joys are greater. 
Name withheld upon request 

Enough's Been Done, The Time Is Now. 
Congratulations, 
Fred & Irene Rick, Bill, Tom, Steve, Chuck & Joe 
MATINEE and EVENING 


MONDAY &TUESDAY 
FEBRUARY 4 and 5 
2:00 and 8:00p.m. 
The American Film Theatre Presents 
THE NATIONAL THEATRE COMPANY OF GREAT BRITAIN 


LAURENCE OLIVIER 









THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPEND~NTSTUDENTNEWSPAPER 
Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett
Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor Executive Editc1r 
NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos
Lee Gentine 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661

Business Manager Advertising Manager
BUSINESS: 283-7471 

Friday, February 1, 1974 
Save Mardi Gras .Buy A Ticket ­
It must have been like looking in a mirror. To see his enraged, arm­
throwing forward pursuing the official who had seconds before 
charged the player with a technical fouL 
It must have been like looking in a mirror. 
From the time that the first whistle was blown Tuesday night at the 
ACC, Marquette coach AI McGuire had ranted, raved, pranced, 
screamed and physically forced the game's referees to give notice to 
his charges of injustice. 
And suddenly, he was watching his young pupil reproducing the 
mentor's act with amazing precision. Evidently, he didn't like what 
he saw. AI McGuire tried to calm his excited charge down. 
The coach had wasted his countless hours of tutoring. 
Having been a pseudo-jock for many years, I realize that a good 
coach wants his players to leave the necessary referee-scolding to 
him, and I also am well aware of the need for a coach to back up his 
players occassionally by challenging the official's decisions. 
All well and good. With AI McGuire, challenging the referees is not 
a coaching tactic, it's an obcession. 
I was truly sorry to see Digger pulled into the arena Tuesday night, 
for our three-year romance witb this coach has taught us that one 
quality the man does mt lack is class. Richard Phelps has taughtus 
what .it is to win, and what it is to hold our heads up high even ip defeat. 
I({cGuire, too, has taught his teams to win, but at what cost? It's 
quite possible that without his explosive antics Tu~day 'night, his ·Warriors would have been buried by ·the Irish squad. The man does J.y.in, At least; he does on the scoreboard. · _ 
·But the true ".coach" realizes that only a fraction of the athlete's 
education is gained by his appreciation of his team's won-lostr~ord. 
The true coach is well aware of his role as teacher; he understands the 
tren1endous impact he is capable of exacting UP,On his player's life. 
And if a player learns that all that is to be gained from life is winning 
at all costs, then he has wasted a chance for an education much more 
well..rounded than many people are fortunate erioogh to experience. 
He possesses the opportunity to attain a perspective on competition 
that the fan can only glimpse. He is a participant, and the true coach 
can teach him what participation really means. 
It means winning. But more importantly, it means playing. It means 
immersing one's whole self into the game until that immersion calls 
for the loss of one's self-respect. And winning is never worth the loss of 
one's self-respect. 
Winning is never worth the sight of one's player chasing after a 
referee until one's teammates have to forcibly restrain him. Winning 
is never worth the sight of the coach himself lashing out physically at 
his own assistant when that man had more sense of composure than 
the coach himself. Winning is never worth the sight of a student body 
who fails to evidence that any growth process has occurred since the 
day of their high school graduation. 
And Tuesday night, winning seemed that important to AI McGuire. I 
sincerely hope that I'm mistaken. 
Some observers at that game contested that the McGuire show was 
exactly that-an act, designed to psych up his players and outdo the 
Irish coach. An act it may well be, but it's the wrong act. There are too 
many people watching, too many lives being touched, too many ad­
mirers convinced that his winning record justifies his tactics. 
The ends justify the means. We've heard it before. All too frequently 
of late. 
Watergate. Ellsburg's psychiatrist's office. 
That seems so overbearing to compare a basketball game to the 
political crimes that have plagued this country during the past year. 
But the lessons learned on the athletic field really do carry over. They 
carry over into the stands where a police officer found himself lying 
prostrate with a badly bruised back. They carry over into business 
where numbers seem so "score-like" and the people affected by those 
numbers are all but forgotten. 
The lessons carry over. And the true "coach" knows that. 
Rockne knew it. He placed as much importance on building men as 
building football teams. It all seems corny now. The tradition, the 
speeches, the rah-rahs. But lessons those men learned weren't corny. 
When the great coaches are remembered by those who saw theni in 
action, they're not remembered simply because they racked up ex­
ceptional scoring percentages. They're remembered because they 
taught men to win, and they taught them how to win with pride. 
They taught them how to live, and to live with pride. 
I said that I was sorry to see Digger involved in the circus Tuesday night, because I don't find that indicative of his attitudes towards winning. No one wants to win more than the Irish coach, but he's shown me too much these last three years to think that winning is all he's concerned with. The show he puts on is intense, but it's always been classy. When he was 6·20, he was classy. Now that winning is no longer merely a dream, he's still teaching. • 
Notre Dame is a better for having known Digger Phelps. We will be a better school if we learn a lesson from the Marquette game Tuesday night. 
Look at Marquette. Two technicals, an injured policeman, two arrested students, and the lingering impression that this Milwaukee school does not make the most pleasant guest. All that, and they still lost. · 
. But it isn't everything. Let's learn a lesson. 
the observer 
Night Editor: AI Rutherford 
Asst. Night Editors: Gary Allietta, Terry Keeney Layout: Maria Gallagher Day Editors: Valerie Zurblis, Zenon Bidzinski 
Copy Editor: Greg Rowinski 
Typists: Claire Kelly, K. Hinks, Mike Seidel, Bill Menk Pictures: Jerome Phillips Compugraphic Operator: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Joe Abell 

Mardi Gras opens tonight at Stepan Center and it will. open on a . downbeat because it's in financial trouble. The returns from ·the Mardi Gras raffle pulled in approximately $4300, barely enoUgh .;. to-. cover the cost of the automql)Ues.-b~ing raffled off, not to mention the ~pSt of the raffle and other initial Mardi Gras expenses. Boy figures that he has approximately $30,000 in debts. 
This annual second semester ex· travaganza is in trouble. Funds collected at the gate will help throughout the week of the affair, but the raffle returns are crucial for the success of this: Notre Dame tradition. It would be sad if such a popular and long-lived event afND would ha\t'e to go ultder for lack of fJna:ncial 
·support. 

When Y9U go over this week, buy a .. -, raffle ticket. Even just one -ticket ·bec-ause at this point every ticket· sold cqunts as a vote to keep MarcH Gras going. U an ·event which was created as a fund-raiser for charity cannot ml!l.ke anymoney, then its existence is in je2!tpordy. Help kE~ep Mardi Gras tradition a1t Notre Dame. 
Jerry l.utkus 

A Real Gas 
The move by Fr. Burtchaell's office Wednesday to extend the spring break by a day is a wise one and one that is ap­preciated by the students. 
The "gasless Sundays" that have been the result of the fuel shortage would cause a great deal of difficulty for students who have to drive back to school after the break. The Provost's office has ubeen under a great deal of fire llately in connection with the calendar fi,ght, but Wednesday's announcement sltlows a general concern for the welfarE~ of the students here. 
Jerry Lutkus 

daanesbury garry trudeau 
~--~----------~ 

w~ n~t'tvG, ~;;;8Al),SIR.
J' GOOP CZAR.. ~Qf?£5 R£450# 7lJ ~ M~NIN6_ HOtV 60/iS l*t/6~ rHeR£ 1'1161{1" : HR. 1Hc FVet ~ A 61¥AT IMPr<oYeMeNT 
o ~5/P&NTI 5H<JI<TAG/i? IN 1He Sl7l!Art0N klffH rHii\ I Olt-PROPtf..1N6 ARAB STAT/iS. 

' ~~ 
.. . 

·~ 7
Friday, February lr .1?14' the 'observer 
Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 
the uncleanliness next to godliness 
reverend rabert l)riffin 


One of the risks of life on the Bowery ­more prevalent than pickpockets, more menacing in indignity than muggers-is the plain, old-fashioned possibility of getting lousy. There is absolutely no romance, no dimensions of Christian virtue, no sen­timentalizing of the discovery that body lice have pitched their tents in your clothes, your hair, or the private parts of your body. The poor are God's special people, there is no doubt avout that. But Lord, do they have to be lousy'? 
I discovered lice as one of the afflictions of the poverelli during my visit to a Catholic settlement house on the Lower East Side during Christmas. An old lady named Julia warned me of the dangers of·'infestatiqn when I noticed she always folded newspapers over whatever""· chair she decided to tit in. · " 
"Why do you do that?" I asked her. 
She twisted her tootbleB!J mouth into .a grin1ace as though her taste buds were st~.:uggling against the bitterness of lemons. 
"It's them ditty men," she said, referring to the derelicts who drift into the n1ission for soup and hot coffee. "They wear them dirty pants, and they sit there picking theirselves, digging and scratching." As she spoke, she picked at her bosom, and dug and scratched in other places, in a simulated demon­stration of the reflex actions of the unhygienic. 
"Them men's got bugs," she said disgustedly. 
St. Francis of Assisi learned to kiss the sores on the bodies of lepers ; I grow nervous at the threat of louse bite. I thought to myself: I think I want to throw up. 
The next day, an old actor named Mark, who lives in one of the rooms of the mission, showed me an erupti.on of red blotches on his forearm. "What do you think it is?" he said. 
Julia, overhearing, began screaming. "It's them bugs," she shouted, "from them dirty, filthy men with their digging and 
About a week ago, I received a letter from a former Notre Dame student. There was something in it that disturbed me. It read: "I still feel the same way (as last year, when a senior)-no one is real. Sure there are a few people you can be honest with but exactly how honest and sincere can you be before they start thinking 'hey, this guy's weird'. I don't know, maybe they don't even want to get to know you. But, see, I didn't and don't really care about what people think of me anymore. I've become bitter about the whole thing." 
***** 

"Those persons who hide and withdraw 
are not worth worrying about. Sometimes 
when I found myself becoming upset with 
some non-entity, I merely said 'Who are 
you? You mean nothing to me!' and 
everything was erased. It's so amazing how 
true it all is-how it's all the same--such a 
waste." 

That night, I was sitting in the home of a 
professor of English here, who said to me, 
"You know, lately I've been getting papers 
that are so filled with alienation and 
loneliness, that it aches just to read them." 
We talked at some length about this, the 
important thing being that there was a sense 
of alienation and loneliness to be 
recognized. 

When I returned to my room, I picked up a 
book by a priest. He is a rector at one of the 
halls on campus, and no stranger to the 
lonely and forgotten. I found thisquote: 
"Everywhere I look, within myself or 
outside myself, I find that the ground is 
covered by birds with broken wings. Rarely 
among the children of the world does one 
find a human being who is fully endowed or 
unblemished as he feels he must be if he is to picking. Look," she said, "I've got them, too." She showed Mark the blotches covered by hair at the nape of her neck. At this oint, I moved away, leaving those two old people to compare battle scars like the veterans of skid row that they are. I've never been one of Christ's heroes, but even more than at the thought of death at the hands of a firing squad, or at a hint of the torture of ice water enemas, I turn into custard at the threat of the martyrdom of lice. 
Yet, I would like to be one of the heroes of Christ at this settlement house. I would like to have the patience and gentleness of Danny, a sophomore from Brown on a year's leave to. work in this place; or the 
. dedicated industry of Lee, who should be a freshman in college. .Mter a· hard day's ·work, Lee spends evening after evening in ·~he kitchen, scouring'pots and pans, and peeling vegetabl(!S for the soup that will be ·served the fQ119wing n'ij)rning to a loo_g line of hUngry; sometinl1!8 hon1elf$5, peop~4!. I have seen Danny spending haurs fitting pair after pair of shoes on an old man with feet covered.with running sores, until finally, he found shoes the old mah c<ruld walk in with comfort. Later, I saw the old man, so lovingly shod, sitting against the wall of the 1·oom, surreptitiously, but unmistakably, masturbating. I begrudge sick derelicts none of their comforts; but I think that if I were Danny, I would not always recognize Jesus under the lice and scabbiness of naughty old men. Yet, these are indeed the little brothers and sisters of the Lord, Once, when I inquired for the details of the funeral of one of the men, who had died from a broken neck after falling drunkenly down a flight of stairs, Mark said: "We are never told, because nobody goes to the funeral. When one of us dies, the body is taken to Jersey, and buried there. It is put into a sack, and 
the sack is put into a plain, wooden box, and the box is put into the ground. The body is not prettied up for burial, because nobody 
ever sees it. We are buried in a special plot 
that belongs to the mission." 
"That is what it means to be really poor; 
he said. 

"But in the case of a woman like Julia," I 
said, "It would be nice if she could be 
dressed up one more time, with her friends 
to come to see her." Julia had been very 
pretty as a young girl, and very much of a 
swinger. I know this, because Julia told me 
so herself. 

"There'll be no potter's field for Julia. 
She'll go out of this life in a burst of glory," 
Mark said. "Julia's got bankbooks." 
He chuckled at the deceits of Julia. "She's 
been doing it for years," he said. "I know 
one bankbook she's got for over eight 
hundred doolars." 
. 'The last "tinle -I saw Julia and said 
goodbye to her, she hustled me also for 
money. "How's Indiana?" she safd. "You 
got any of thenl dirty men out tllere, -digging 
and scratching theirselves?" . 
"Nobody," I said, "except now, maybe me." · "Don't you catch nothing here," she said. I promised her I wouldn't. · 
"Here," she said, and handed me a 
newspaper. Then: "You got any change you 
can spare'?" 

She took the change I gave her, and 
slipped it into her pocket. 
"It's them dirty men that did it," she said. 
"With their digging and scratching, they've 
ruined the neighborhood." 
Even among the poor, there are 
inequalities, and it is easy to lay sympathy 
on someone who doesn't need it. Of one 
man, who wanted me to relieve his suf­
ferings with a cash gift of two hundred 
dollars on his special feast day (the 
Passover, he claimed), I was told: "Don't 
worry about Louie. He gets three checks a 
month from the government and he's the 
best pickpocket in New York." 
Mark said: "Julia makes her money with 
a bunch of old newspapers in the subway. She pretends to have trouble lifting her feet up the stairs. (She's only got the strongest pair of legs on the Bowery.) She'll say to some guy, 'Mister, won't oou help me up them stairs?' The guy will help her up one step; and while she's still got his arm in a clutch, she'll say, 'Mister, won't you buy my newspaper?' and he'll give her money for a newspaper she's collected out of a garbage can. 'Then she says, 'Mister, I'm going to rest here a minute,' so the guy leaves her. Then she'll pull the same trick on the next guy. She stasy there all af­ternoon, and never gets beyond that first 
· step." 
:::::t:::::::::::;:;:~:~:~:~!?.~:!:!:!:!:!!!!it~!:!:!:!:;:::::!:::!:!:!:;!;:!:!:!$~:~;:;:;:;:~:;:;:;: 
.. ,.ey-...;<" 
·:· or.·~·;,.:• 

a celebraHofl 
~: .;.·• 
,,., ....,
of youth·-~,; 

Sunday, February 3, is the 4th .11irthday of the A.K.C.+registered cocker".spaniel, Darby O'Gill, som of Pupper 'and the late Dusty. 
As a special gesture of joy to celebrate his nativity and to propagate the cham1 of his species, Master Darby will be available, Feb. 4-8 (never on Sunday) for the purpose of beggeting O'Gills, to any bitch of the 
Isame breed with equally pure lines, WITHOUT CHARGE USUAL FIFTY DOLLAR STUD FEE. 
In the interest of serving health and strength, O'Gill's stud servicing will be limited to one trick a day for the Birthday Week. To arrange for your cocker's ren­dezvous with destiey, call the old Kennel Master, Rector's Office, 120 Keenan, te.. 283-7066. 
Happy Birthday, Darby O'Gill! 



a sense of humanity 
a comment by fred graver 
take to the air and sail the sky and lift himself into the pathway of the sun where the trail of the rainbow begins. But the bird must Jearn to trust its wings, broken or otherwise, or poets could never sing of feathers fluttering heavenward in a soaring flash of glory on a gray November morning and mankind would lose the joy of looking up to see a touch of meadow soaring red­breasted against the sky. 
***** 
"I really can't think of what to tell you about the choices you must make in the circumstances of a life that leaves you lonely, but I am sure there are special kinds of friends who are prepared to love you and accept you and be concerned about your welfare. But for them to accept you, you must first accept yourself as being of sensitivity and goodness, wisdom and grace. If at times your wing seems a bit more broken than all the others, remember that the fallen sparrow was infinitely more lovable to the One whose image is the gentleness of a Lamb, senselessly slaughtered on a cross of wood." 
***** 
It is not hard to see the lonely and forgotten; it is not easy to accept them and the reality of their presence. Nervous, fearful eyes and inhibited movements are the scar of long-ago wounded egos; careless, unthinking unwillingness to reach ·out and open up are also scars. Some must await the nursing of their wounds; others succeed in covering them up so well that they will never have to feel the pain of 
further harm. 

We are in the middle, I believe, of two eras. What, then, does this situation have to do with this alienation? Are we reaching a point where individuals are being sacrificed for larger ideals? There are men who are searching for larger values than they can see, and menn searching for smaller values than they can see. We live in a peculiar type of limbo. 
The problem at Notre Dame does not lie with grades, classes, or the more superficial aspects of the social situation. I believe that the problem lies in the lack of individuation here. There is just no room to grow for those sensitive to growth. 
***** 

Perhaps the worst wounded are those who entered with high expectations, expecting to retain their high status from home, only to encounter disillusionment and disap­pointment. They have not been prepared for the shock that they are only a small part of the great machination, and discover brutally their own vulnerability. Their secure, little worlds collapse, and they escape their demise by building thicker walls than they have ever built. It is a process which takes the person from starving for intimacy to sterile self­sufficiency. 
***** 

There are others who have been wounded, also. They believe in the impossible myth of fraternity and brotherly love which is ex­pounded at Notre Dame. Some shun the smaller friendships in search for the larger ideal, the "real thing." The alunmi cer­tainly do little to dispel the notion. These people learn with a great deal of pain, that the "real thing" is a 'failure in existence, 
and the smaller friendships have been too preciously lost. 
There are worlds of suspicion and misunderstanding that will remain forever closed in hearts too sorrowfully sealed to permit disclosure. 
The professor asked me later in the evening if I felt that this alienation and loneliness was a symptom of the times. I thought back to my friends at other colleges, and to one letter in particular. A girl wrote me, saying, "There is no place here where one can a9mit to being human. It is just too 
big and involved for me. I need something that can survive being simple." I told the -professor that, yes, this was a symptom of the times. 
***** 

My roommate told me a story which I think places a great deal in a proper per­spective. Over the summer, while visiting ~is grandfather in a hospital, he went down to the coffee shop and met a girl there who began to talk about something she felt was missing between people.She was a senior'n college, and remarked that, "It used to be we had a sort of affinity. We accepted each other, not because we were all into the same things, but because we were all in the same boat. Nowadays, everybody's afraid of each other. There's no trust." 
The entire problem lies in recognizing our situation. Perhaps that is too much to ask, with all the rush and pressure and grades, but when one thinks of the sacrifice which is made by not thinking about our situation he must ask himself at the same time whether his own humanity is worth the attainn1ent of goals which, in the end, should never have lost their sense of humanity in the first place. 
• 


the observer-Friday, February \, .1974
8 
--~-----! 


Middle 
Earth 

:madnes's • •• 

Photos by Zenon :Bidzinski 

I. ', , •.' '. ' 
... ,. ' ' ' ' ' .. ' " ' .. ' ' " .. .. ~ .. . . --------------------------------------~ 



Friday, February 1, 1974

th.e,observer: 
TV address tonight 
Mansfield to reply to 'State of Union' 
WA:SHlNliTON (UPI) -Con­Wis., a specialist on the The Senatt:'s newest member, Paul Jennings, president of Joseph A. Beirne, head of thegressional Democrats generally economy, said he thought Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, the International Union of Communications Workers ofreserved an overall judgment Nixon's proposals were "an described the State of the Union Electrical, Radio and Machine America, said that "on theThursday on President Nixon's economic disaster." address as "an Alice-in-Won­Workers, said that "the rosy record of his past statements,State of the Union message, not "In a year following our derland political speech." He picture he painted completely who can now believe thewanting to overshadow a worst inflation in more than 25 said it was "the most incredible ignored the worst inflation year promises... the golden promis­formal televised response Fri­years and at a time when speech that I ever heard ... if since 1947... " He added that " es... of the Nixon State of theday night by Senate Democrat­economists universally predict anything his speech has wid­based on his administration's Union message for 1974?
ic Leader Mike Mansfield. that inflation will be even ened the credibility gap, not forecasting record, the Presi­Certainly not th0$e who insistMansfield told reporters that worse in 1974, the President's narrowed it." dent's promise that there will on substance and remember histhe $304 billion budget Nixon answer is a record increase in The heads of two labor unions bf:' no recession almost guaran­past performance."
proposed in his speech Wednes­federal spending," Proxmire Jllso criticized the speech. tees one." day night was "too much" and said. he said the President's remarks House Speaker Carl Albert on Watergate did little to criticized Nixon for proposing 
Senate approves legislation
change the situation. "no new initiative .. only 
But Mansfield indicated he generalities and platitudes." was saving his full response for Nixon's remark that "a year a nationally televised speech at of Watergate is enough" 


to give legal.service to poor
10 p.m. EDT Friday night, elicited the strongest general 
when he will reply to Nixon on reaction from Democrats in WASHINGTON (UPI)-The Brock and Helms, offered The Senate did add behalf of the Democratic party. Congress. Senate Thursday approved a numerous amenments in an un­language from Sen. 
Asked if he thought Nixon's Sen. Abraham A. Ribicoff, D­compromise bill to establish an ' sticesssful attempt to significantly John Tower, R-Tex., which would remarks on Watergate had Conn., said he could understand independent legal services cor-' alter the legal services program prohibit cases being brought by changed any of the congression­that Nixon would "like Water­poration for the poor after easily which, they charged, allows tax­poverty lawyers for Selective al sentiment that has led to an gate to disappear -but it killing attempts to turn the whole supported attorneys to actively Services violations or desertions impeachment inquiry by the won't." program over to the states. work for political and social from the armed services. House Judiciary Committee, Sen. Sam J. Ervin, D-N. C., reforms through class action suits Another Tower amendment to 
Mansfield replied: "about the chairman of the Senate Water­The bill was passed on a vote of prohibit any litigation relating to
against the federal government. same." gate committee, said the 71 to 17 after the Senate defeated school busing and desegregation · Noting that Nixon's budget Watergate affair would have an amendment by Sens. Jesse _ "The idea of us paying a lawyer cases lost 40-51. requests have risen 57 per cent ended long ago if Nixon had Helms, R-N.C., and William to sue ourselves is ridiculous " since 1969, he said the proposal surrendered all the evidence in Brock, R-Tenn., which would have said Sen. Russell Long, D-U:., Another proposal by Brock, to for fiscal 1975 only "adds to the his possession. In his speech, substituted a plan of their own to whose amendment to prohibit any strike language from the bill yearly deficit." the President indicated he funnel federal funds into separate legal services suite seeking to establishing the program's in­
overturn federal or state laws
"I think it can be reduced," thought Watergate investigators state-run programs. It failed 24-63. dependence from the rest of Mansfield said. already had obtained as much was voted down 38-52. government, was defeated 58-30. Sen. William Proxmire, D-evidence as they need. Conservative senators, led by 
----...... ---~ 




TheAudio Speelallsts 
WHILE QU·ANTITIIS LAST••• ONE ·fill CUSTOMII..• NO DIALERS PLEASE·. 
ALSO MANY UNADVERTISED SPECIALS PIONEER SX-727 
40 watt RMS per channel receiver sold everywhere for s399 95 
$295°0 
(good this FridayWith this coupon and Saturday only) 
PIONEER SX~828 
69. watt RMS per channel sold everywhere for 549995 
(good this Friday
$3.75.00

With this coupon ' and Saturday only) 


PICKERING PLATE 
cartridge 


sa.'s 
(good this Friday

With this coupon 
and Saturday only) 

PION&ER CT-4l41 
Cassette deck with Dolby sold everywhere for526995 
. . SJ799 5 (good this Friday
Wtth thts, coupon 1and Saturday only) 

PIO·NEER HEADPHONE·S 
cdl models in stock 


25% off list price 
With this coupon (good this Friday and Saturday only) 
Open this Friday Noon to 9pm /t>J,.;·.., this SattiiJii'.i.-JOam.to 6pm 
. ·...?



INVITATIO-N 
ALL AldDIO Df;ALERS WHO ARE (lOLD ENOUGH TO OPENL Y'COMPETE WITH OUR FAMOlJS DISCOUNT PRICES ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO CHALLENGE US IN A 'PRICE WAR.' 
PLEASE ACKNOWLEDGE BY OFFERING AND ADVERTISING THE LOWEST PRICES .THIS CITY HAS EVER SEEN·· 
r.s.v.p. 
PIONEER CT-3131 
·cassette deck sold everywhere for 5 199. 95 
$135.00 
Friday, February 1·,' 1.,74 the observer 
9 

Combined with research 
More student, faculty participation urged 
(continued from page 3) 
In addition the report pointed out several advantages to obtaining 
sponsored research, "such as the improvement of courses taught by persons doing original work of which they can speak, the easing of faculty recruiting," among others. 
Dr. Julian Samora, Professor of Sociology and Anthropology in 
charge of Chicano Research, sees the need of an internal fund. "The University should set up a research fund for those who are unable to obtain their own grants," he commented. 
If the program IS to oe sponsored by the University, it must be through the necessary channels. First, it must be approved by the principal investigator, next by the chairman of the Department or the Director of the Institute, then by the Dean of the College, or the Vice-President for Research and SponsoredPrograms, and finally by the President for Business Affairs. 
"Proposals for Research include proposals for support of any form of research, including the writing of articles, books, or other forms of scholarly work,"s.tates the "procedure (outline) for the Submission of Proposals for the Support of Sponsored rrograms.." 
The second recommendation read: "That participation in in­terdisciplinary programs receive equal weight with participation in unidisciplinary programs when it comes to scaling rewards." 
"I agree that interdisciplinary programs should be encouraged as well as unidisciplinary programs." commented Samora. 
"However a way has to be developed to give recognition to those who participated if their names do not appear in publications,'' explained Kobyashi. 
The third and final recom­mendation of the task force stated: 
"That inasmuch as research or disciplined inquiry is integral to the thinking and behavior of the learned person, special care should be taken to draw undergratuates into the research process. 
"Undergraduates are busier with classes and don't have the time the graduate students have to 

SMC Tucson PrograJTJ delayed 
(continued from page 1) 
family atmosphere 

The semester was divided mw z quarters. During the first quarter, the group took courses in South­western History, Desert Biology, and Socio-Cultural Aspects of the Southwest, while schedules varied during the second quarter, Sr. Gertrude noted. 
The Tucson "campus" was located at Picture Rock Retreat House, 17 miles northwest of downtown Tucson in the foothills of the Tucson Mountains. A guest ranch, one mile away, provided horseback riding, swimming and tennis. 
All girls contacted who par­ticipated in the program enjoyed living in the retreat house. As one said, "'I had premonitions about it at first, but there was a family atmosphere between us and those on th staff who lived there." 
"We weren't always with people our own age.We made friends with kids in highschool and with 60-year­olds," commented others. 
An informal Mass and dinner will be held on Monday, Feb. 4, at 6 pm. to acquaint SMC students with the program Father McCormick and the girls in the Tucson program last semester will be p­esent to discuss the program.. Those interested in attending are asked to contact Sr. Gertrude or F1·. McCormick. 
"One thing I really felt-1 wanted to go back to nature. You get a feeling of being very close to nature when you're out in the desert. There's a certain solitude and peacefulness of ·the desert, and 
until you really know about it, you can't begin to appreciate It," explained Brinck. 
More information and ap­plications for the program can be obtained by contacting Sr. Alma Peter in room 115 LeMans. The deadline for applications is April 15. 
SMC calendar agrees with ND 
by Leanne Jacques Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's calendar for 1974-1975 will feature a pre-Labor Day start to agree with Notre Dame's earlier start. Co-exchange classes were !hr main consideration of the new calendar. 
Dr. William Hickey, SMC Vice President of Academic Affairs, said that the addition of Monday, March 18, to the upcoming spring break has not been discussed. Earlier this week Fr. James Burtchaell announced Notre Dame's break would be extended one day because of the current fuel shortage. 
Energy Committee hears plans to reduce electricity waste 
by Mark Derheimer Staff Reporter 

The University Energy Con­versation Committee yesterday in its third meeting proposed measures to reduce campus electricity consumption 
The next task of the committee will be to inform the University community of various ways in which the use of power can be reduced. 
According to William Ganser, Chief Engineer of the Power Plant, an attempt to "save fuel is needed to keep costs for fuel steady or to reduce costs " 
"We could, make a big jolt (in amounts spent for fuel) if we eliminate the obvious waste,"stated Ganser. 
Fr. James Flanigan, Chairman of the Committee, added that this does not mean "asking people to turn off lights that have to be used." 
But all committee members agree there are many areas on the campus where electricity is wasted. Brother Kieran Ryan stated, "The committee has got to come ·up with some general principles for the campus." He suggested a energy conservation checklist' be drawn up and cir­culated in the University. 

become involved with research. Usually they are not as interested in research, whereas the graduate 
students are," said Samora. 
university and diversity 
Also in reference to the 3rd 
recommendation, Kobyashi 
stated, "It depends at what stage 
!he undergraduate is at in his 
college career. Freshman are 
busy, getting oriented and such. 
Later an opportunity to participate 
can come through electives the 
students may be taking." 
"We try to encourage Ihe faculty 
to get with programs that support 
academic activity, after all we 
have a responsibility to educate," 
he continued. 
Perhaps the feeling of the task is besl shown in lhis paragraph of the report: 
"A university is distinguished by its universality and, therefore by·~ its diversity. It is concerned with the enlargement • assimilation, preservation and transmission of man's lechnological, intellectual, aesthetic and spiritual heritage. 
Enlargement  and  synthes·is  of  
that  heritage  by  means  of  
researsch  particularly  what  is  

known as basic research, is a creative activity for which the university has been a most congenial habitat. Because of the reciprocal relationship between research and the university, the university has accepted a special responsibility for the cultivation of research." 



SMC COFFEEHOUSE 
Frank D'Ambra  Charlie Shreck  
Rick Walters  Chuck Beck  
beaneath caf.  milk shakes  
9:30-1:30  much music  


Start your weekend at . 


B·ulla Shed 
( Corner of Bulla and Juniper across from Grace Tower) 
··· ...: 
. 
.··.·\ 

Friday Mass and Dinner 5:00 p.m. 
IN CONCERT 


''QUICKSILVER'' 
MESSENGER SERVICE With Speeial Guest 
MONTROSE 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1974 
At The MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 7:30P.M. 
$5.00 ADVANCE-$5.50 AT DOOR 
TICKETS A V AILABLE AT: 
The Auditorium Box Office, 12:00 to 5:00 P.M. daily, except Sunday; Pandora's Book Store; Boogie Records and at Disc Records in Elkhart. 



• t '.f "' . l f .., •.• '· • \ '
th"e observer ......1'.1. 

FightingSiouxhost Notre Da1ne 
(continued from page 12) 

ourselves of any doubts we might have is to get a winning streak going. 
"Besides the added confidence that comes with a winning streak, you also gain the momentum which is so very important to any successful athletic t'eam. I'd say there were at least two or three games last year which we won almost purely on momentum." 
What does Williams think the 
key will be this weekend? 
"It's very simple. They are going to dress 13 freshmen and they are goinP, to hustle, hustle, hustle even more than Bowling Green did last Friday. Therefore, talent and experience won't necessarily defeat North Dakota. We will have to be mentally prepared as a team in order to counterbalance this hustle." 
There isn't much more you can 
say about this series from Notre 
Dame's standpoint. The only other thing left is Smith's plans for lines and blueline pairings. And that's simple. 
Smith will continue using Bill Nyrop between Eddie Bumbacco and Williams. Pat Conroy will again center the second line be­tween the leading scorer Ray DeLorenzi and Larry Israelson. 
Brian Walsh returns from the injured list to give the Irish an all­freshmen third line. Alex Pirus and Clark Hamilton will be his wingers. Pat Novitzki and Mike Tardani will be ready for penalty­killing duty. 
On defense, Steve Curry will again team with freshman Paul Clarke. Ric Schafer and freshmen Jack Brownschidle make up the other with Les Larson filling in for both pairs. Mark Kronholm will get the nod in goal. 
Grand Forks, N.D. is not New York City when it comes to ex­citement. This weekend, Sioux fans probably will turn their at­tention away from their ther-
Irish reap gridiron honors 
The University of Notre Dame football team, national champions on the field, also led the nation in scholar-athletes. The Irish dominated the 1973 University Division Academic All-American team by placing three players on the first unit and claiming the top vote-getter in kicking specialist Bob Thomas. 
Besides Thomas, Irish stars named were offensive end Dave Casper and linebacker Gary Potempa. 
Balloting was handled for the co­sponsors, the College Sports In­formation Directors of America <COSIDA) and the American Heritage Life Insurance Co. with the Michigan Slate University sports information office. To be nominated , the players had to achieve at least "B" averages and varsity status in football. First team selections will receive plaques courtesy of American Heritage. 
Thomas, a government major whose field goal with four minutes to play enabled Notre Dame to beat Alabama· in the Sugar Bowl, 24-23, for the national title, was named on 113of 200 ballots cast by COSIDA members. Casper, also named to UPI, Grid Writers, Kodak and Walter Camp All­Ar.,erica teams, is a repeater to the academic team and has been awarded a NCAA Postgraduate Scholarship. He is majoring in economics. Potempa, a senior middle linebacker, will attend 
Football Review 
The Scholastic's annual gridiron flashback issue, the Football Review, will be distributed today to on-campus students. 
But because of the anticipated demand for this National Cham­pionship issue, the distribution of the magazine will be somewhat different than in recent years. On­campus students will receive their copies, one per student, under their doors this afternoon. Off-campus students will receive their issues through the mail at the beginning of next week, and faculty members will receive theirs in their faculty office boxes on Monday. 
St. Mary's students who have paid for the Scholastic will likewise receive a copy at the beginning of next week. Extra copies will be available for fifty cents each in the dining halls on Monday, Feb. 4. 
phmnin~ a \W(klin~·? call Th<' 234-5822 \\t>dding Photo~rapiH 
• -.se22 MICHAEL LONER 
'-~:~
-JJDIO grapre Cl88l9l
....__....;;;;.,;....,._......, 

either dental or medical school after graduation. 
Notre Dame backfield coach Tom Pagna has been selected for induction into Miami University's Athletic Hall of Fame. A banquet honoring Pagna and three other inductees will be held February l in the Heritage Room of the University Center. Formal in­duction ceremonies will take place during halftime of the Miami­
W. Michi an basketball game. 
mometers to this crucial series. Hopefully, Notre Dame's season won't start to drop like the mer­cury in those instrumnts. Both games can be heard over WNDU (1490) at 8:30 p.n1. 




CLASSIFIED RDS 
Brian Walsh 

SUMMER JOBS 
Guys & Gals needed for summer 
employment at National Parks, 
Private Camps, Dude Ranches and 
Resorts throughout the nation. 
Over 50,000 students aided each 
year. For FREE information on 
student assistance program send 
self-addressed STAMPED enve­
lope to Opportunity Research, 
Dept. SJO, 55 Flathead Drive, 
Kalispell, MT 59901. 
....YOU MUST APPLY EARLY.... 
THIS STUDENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 


School house Too 
Found 1 season hockey ticket ACC after Bowling Green game. Owner must identify seat, row, section. Call 3444. 
In the Brewery 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. 

Found wire rimmed glasses in front of Walsh. To claim call
Phone -259-8181 
Bill 3169. 
Found keys on ring west side of 
library call John 8232.
The m.idwest's most complete 
Found ladies watch after
needlepoint shop 
Marquette game. To identify call Mike 1487.
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D 
WANTED 
Need girl to share apt. Near campus. $50 per mo. 233-1745. 
HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm 
SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m 
Reasonably reserved faculty or grad student to occupy 2nd BR at Park Jefferson. First BR 
•Kcupied by new faculty




SUNDAY MASSES 
member. 283-6660 
MAIN CHURCH 
Roommate wanted. Share l10use with 4 seniors. Call 232­7682 between 10:30 pm. and 12 am.
Sat. 5:00 pm Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC 
FOR RENT
Sun 9:30 am Fr. James Schilts, CSC Sun 10:45 am Fr. Steve Maikiewicz, CSC 
Furnished Apt. for Rent 3 
rooms plus bath. $80 per month
Sun 12:15 pm Fr. William Toohey, CSC 
+ utilities. Couple preferred. 
. Call 259-0930 between 6 and 7 pm. 
Rooms for girls close to N D, Kitchen privileges swimming pool. $15 per week 272-3004 after 6. 
1974-75 school year. Beautiful house, nice neighborhood. 5BR. 734-5523. 
NOTICES 
G.P. Majors: Applications now being accepted to;-philosopher kings to rule island republic ir, Mediterranean. Icons, robes, crowns and peasants provided. 
2ndANNUAL GSU SKI TRIP: 5-10 pm Feb. 16. Swiss Valle;. $6. Half price for first 25 grad signups. Bus avallble. P. 
Bolduc 373 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Good tix for the Friday Feb. 8 performance of Grease at Morris civic are now availble at the student unJon ticket office, 1-5 dialy. 
LONDON SHOW TOUR: March 10-18. $451 from SB; incI udes air, accoumadations, tix. $100 deposit due Beb. 1. Call Sister Jean Kiene or Clark Eide 234-2098. 
Sister Marita needs volunteers for the Primary Day School. For information call 7889. 
FLANNER FOOD SALES: Pizzas-mushroom, pepperoni, sausage, cheese. Pop-12 oz. cans 15 cents, 16 oz cans 20 cents. Hours 10:15-11:45. 
Phone 8047. 
PERSONALS 
Dear "Dont ask me" Big eyes and black hair is still after you. 
Jean, Hope you're fully back to 
111alth. J. 
Dear Rudy + Cindy, 
I hope you are en joying your Observer subscription. Me and my tools are fine 
love John 
Dear Darby O'Gill, Happy Birthday to you, Happy Birthday to you, Happy Birthday dear Darby, Happy Birthday to you. And may God forever hold you in the hollow of His hand. 
FLASH!!! Hurricane sighted just south of Indiana. Will actually hit South Bend Saturday. This is il. Run for cover. We're gonna get smashed!!! 

* * * NOTICE * * * 
Applications now being 

taken for the position of 
The Observer Editor ·in· chief. 

Submit all resumes to Jerry Lutkus at The Observer office no later than 
, • oil" r ~ r f" ,-"' •• r-f • .. W' C ' 'I' 'II'

~~~d~.Y.•. ~-'-~~ .4.r...4..~Q9.Pm.•..... ,.... ,,....... ·c..•-.~.-.--. . . .. . . ~ '-. --. . . . . . .
•.•.... 
l 
] 
l 
~ 
-.. 
FOR SALE 
Petrie FT2 35 mm. FLR camera with 200 mm. Lentar lens. Plus two fllters$130. 683­7792. 
Ki 60 watt RMS KLH receiver, $160; Garrard SL95B turn­table complete,$125; 2 EPI 100 loudspeakers, $135; 1 EPI 50 loudspeaker,$35; AKAI open reel deck with sound on sound. Solenoid controls, 3 motor and auto reverse.$250. Call Kim at 234-2536 or 288-0950 after 5 pm. 
Overstuffed chairs $3-$5. Free delivery to dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 after 6 pm. 
Wilson classic golf clubs,bag, balls,and tees. Less than year 
•)ld. Best offer. 8428. 
Panasonic stereo cassette tape player. Call 3344. 
FOIL BIKE THIEVES!! super­duper bike locks for sale. Judy 4970. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost Ladies gold bulova watch. Between N. dining Hall -B-P. 8813. 
Lost class ring 74, topaz, TLS inside. O'Shag before finals. Reward. Tim 234-8092. 

1~ · the obse.rver Friday, February 1, 1974 




Second-hall surge ruins 
DePaul: A.D. in infirmary 
and came just 48 hours after the November, 1972, , was once againby John Higgins Irish had defeated Marquette in a presented to Brokaw in a post­very physical, hard-fought contesl. game ceremony. DePaul's
Third-ranked Notre Dame, 

The pace was fast and furious in Robinzine, playing in foul troubledominating the backboards and 
the early going as Phelps tried to throughout t the contest, also hitshooting a blistering 57.3 percent set a fast tempo, not expecting the for 25 points and while seniorfrom the floor, put its offense into more deliberate Demons to be able captain Mike Gillespie followedhigh gear in the second half last to keep up. But DePaul, paced by 6-with 19. ·Notre Dame's leadingnight as it turned a 3-point halftime 7 center Bill Robinzine's ten points scorer John Shumate had anotherlead into a 101-72 rout of the in the first ten minutes of play, excellent shooting night, netting 9­DePaul Blue Demons. 
matched the Irish point for point 13 from the field for 19 points andBut the customary post-game until the 5 minute mark, charging added 10 rebounds.
jubiliation was missing from the back repeatedly to erase small
Irish lockerroom, and the guarded DePaul's Meyer, a Notre Dame
Irish advantages. Eight straight
expressions on the player's faces grad who captained the Irish
points by Notre Dame gave them a
indicated that there were more basketball squad in 1937 and 1938,
39-29 lead at the 3-minute mark,
pressing concerns at the moment saw ND's bench as the key to the
but a final DePaul rally closed the 
than their just-<:oncluded victory. game. "I think they had just too
deficit to 43-40 at the intermission. 
much overall strength," noted the Gary Brokaw and John Shumate did quite a job on DePaul last night. 
Freshman Adrian Dantley, who 
Notre Dame put the game out of Brokaw, who won the Wendell Smith Award for the second straight
left the game after an electrifying veteran coach. "We can't go to the 
year, finished with 25 points on 12 of 16 field goa! tries. The Big Shue
23-point, 15-rebound perfom1ance, reach after the halftime rest, hence like they can for a sixth, 
collapsed dUring a time out with outscoring the Demons 13-4 in the seventh and eighth man. We can added 19 points and 10 rebounds. three minutes remaining in the initial five minutes as John usually play most first fives even, game and was rushed to the Notre Shumate netted seven markers. but they took us out of our patterns Dame infirmary for examination. DePaul coach Ray Meyer called a and we can't match up with them. 
Irish coach Digger Phelps, in a timeout to slow the caharge of the One of our problems was that we somber, pensive tone, said that he red-hot Irish, but well-<:onditioned got tired and with their tremen­
The Irish Eye
was pleased .with his team's Notre Dame ran the margin soon dous shooting they shot us right out after to 24 points and Digger began of the ballpark.
performance, "but my concern to make frequent lineup changes, now is for Adrian." Not exactly "There is 
sure himself what happened, eventually turning the play over to no doubt that Notre 
we've

Phelps said, "He is in the school the subs in the late going. The Irish Dame is the best team 
played this year and Shumate is

cracked the century mark for the
infirmary, his vital signs are good. For just a moment, forget Notre Dame's lofty ranking in the AP and
the best big man we've gone up

third time this season as Ken
He did not complain to me or UPI basketball polls. Forget last Tuesday's rollicking victory over
against. And of course Brokaw had

Wolbeck ended the scoring with a
anytone else concerning fatigue. Marquette, and forget tomorrow's intersectional run-in with the
his usual great game. Notre Dame

layout with 15 seconds remaining.
The game means nothing com­Davidson Wildcats.
hurt us at the rebounding." The

pared to his health," Phelps Gary Brokaw,who had 23 points Instead, remember back to last Saturday night. Remember back to the
Irish doubled DePaul's board

concluded, and rushed off to check against DePaul last year when he lO:OOmark of the second half of the Notre Dame-UCLA rematch. By that
totals 52-26 as they completely

on the condition of his brilliant was named the game's outstanding lime the Bruins had already iced their victory, and there were scads of
controlled both ends of the court. 

young player. player and the recipient of the first somber Notre Dame students in TV rooms scattered across campus and 
Pete Crotty, the player closest to annual Wendell Smith Award, There is no rest in sight for the throughout South Bend. Dantley during the time out, said, thrilled the near-<:apacity crowd Irish, who conclude their current Now, skip to a TV room in Goshen, New York. The same game is on, "He just stood up during the time with a superlative 12-16 shooting home stand against hot-shooting and the same thing is happening: The Bruins are threatening to turn the out and fell to the ground. It was a performance and a team-leading Davidson on Saturday. contest into a rout. But in this TV room, a room also full of Irish backers, real tough, exhausting game. 25 points. The honor, named in there are few somber fans. Instead, there are cheers and pleas and en­
The Wildcats, who have won six 

We've been playing a lot of games treaties--and the uproar continues until the final minutes of the game.
memory of the much-acclaimed games in a row, including a 70-59 
lately and doing a lot of sportswriter who pioneered the decision against South Carolina, Nothing unusual about that? Maybe not, but there's more to the story. travelling." Indeed, it was Notre entrance of the black man into will square off against ND in a 12 The TV room in Goshen, New York, was full. As a matter of fact, it was Dame's eightth game in 19 days professional sports and died in jam-packed. At one point during the evening there may have b~ n as
noon, regionally televised game. 

r.1any as 85 bodies wedged in front of the set, everyone hoping to see Notre Dame pull off another miracle finish against the Uclans. Still nothing out of the ordinary? Well, how about this? The 85 bodies

Irish icers lace crucial series 
belonged to New York youngsters, aged 14-17, who are under the tutelage season, he was injured. of lhe Goshen Center, a training school set up by the New York Division of 
by John Fineran too, each having the same 7-10-1 Still, his 
versatility is quite apparent as he Youth. The youngsters, through one circumstance or another, have comerecord for 15 points which the Irish has played some center and wing to the Goshen Center through the juvenile courts of New York state andnow show for 18 WCHA encounters.
Crucial. That's the word which New York city, and are being rehabilitated by the center for eventualColorado College is in sixth place, in his three seasons at Grand

best describes the next five reentry into community life.
one point better than this trio, and Forks.
weekends for Notre Dame and Wisconsin is not safe, either, with Best of the new crop is freshman And yet these guys--these 80-some guys--many of whom have beeneight other WCHA squads. One of 
20 points for fifth place. goaltender Peter Waselovich, who bounced around more than the Wilson basketballs used in Notre Dame's
those eight, last-place North 
In what probably has been the has a 4.9 goals-against average practice sessions, were cheering loud and long for Notre Dame even when Dakota, will host the Irish tonight 
wildest WCHA campaign in which does not look impressive at the Bruins owned a 25-point lead. That is unusual, and the questionin the first of a two-game series, 
history, Michigan Tech looks like first glance. However, the WCHA "why" is one which fairly begs to be asked. 
and if Lefty Smith's squad hopes to the only team with a hold on a is not noted for being easy on It's a question which can be easily answered, too. Much of the credit move its way up from its current 
position. The Huskies are solidly freshmen with the possible ex­goes to Bill Horan, the Program Co-ordinator at the Goshen Center and
seventh-place position in the 
in first with 28 points, followed by ception of Hangsleben. an ND fan himself ("As far as basketball goes, ND is still Number Oneleague, it will have to take these Denver (24), Minnesota (22) and Four other freshmen, right with us," he said. "You should have heard the boys cheering them two crucial games from the young, 
Michigan State (21). Even these wings Tom Evans 05 points) and on last night against UCLA. Of course, four games in eight days is a lotbut stubborn Fighting Sioux. 
last three teams have not safely Brad Becker (11), center Terry but we will get them in the NCAA's.") ' The Irish are not alone in clinched a playoff spot. Dennis (13) and left wing Dave Horan, a man who appreciates the value of athletics in the lives ofseventh place, either. Minnesota­
"Although we are currently tied Gawley (12) are the top league adolescents-any any adolescents--started a Sports Club within theDuluth and Michigan are there, for seventh place," Smith said, scorers for the Sioux. Sophomore Goshen Center early last year, and when Autumn of '73 rolled around the "it's not inconceivabl~ that any of left winger Rick Clubbe (11), frosh focus of the Sports Club turned to college football. Eventually, that focus 
the other nine clubs could finish as center Bob DePiero (10) and
Track tickets 
narrowed to the Sugar Bowl match between Notre and Alabama. high as second place." Hangsleben (10) follow. Once the Sugar Bowl pairing hadbeen announced, Horan sponsored a And although Smith is probably 
Notre Dame's individual bulletin board contest within his club. One board was set aside for hoping his Irish can duplicate last statistics are more impressive, but Alabama, one for ND, and the Goshen Club youngsters then went to work. 
Ticket manager Don Bouffard 
season's second-place finish, he the team's stats aren't much better They worte to the Sports Information offices of both schools, and has announced that Notre Dame requested pennants, programs, photos, and the like.
fully realizes the danger of taking than North Dakota's. So far thisstudents will be admitted free of the youthful Sioux for granted. season, Notre Dame has had but Alabma responded by sending an 8x10 glossy of head football coach charge to all home indoor track "North Dakota is indeed inex­two good series, sweeping Duluth Paul "Bear" Bryant. 
meets upon presentation of student early last month at home and Under ordinary circumstances, a single 8x10 might have sufficed, butperienced and has made manyID's at Gate 4 of the ACC. 
gaining three points (a win and a not when you'redealing with loyalties of young New Yorkers. So with onemistakes this vear," Smith con­Bouffard also announced that fell swoop, Notre Dame SID RogerValdiserri won 85 additional rooterstinued~'But with hustle, they have tie) in the season opener at
public general admission tickets been . improving each week. Michigan Tech. to ND's side in time for the showdown on New Year's Eve. Valdiserri will be sold concurrently at Gate 4. Tri-<:aptain Ian Williams has sent everything the Goshen boys requested, and the results were
"Plus, we will be playing before 
There will be a charge of $1.00 for predictable.
played more consistent hockey

5,900 cheering Xioux fans who have all adults and $.50 for children 12 over the last six games than many "You know who the kids wanted to win (in the Sugar Bowl),"saidnever known their team to miss aand under for all meets except the 
of the Irish icers. And there is no Horan. "And we just wanted you to know that ND is the Team of the Hour playoff series in their history."
Central College\Conference meet. doubt among his teammates that here and that you now have 85 rabid fans." Well,86 if the Program Co­
It has been a rebulding year for
The CCC meet will have no ordinator counts.
right wing Willy is the pulse of the 

Rube Bjorkman, North Dakota's
charge for the trials on Friday, squad. And those same guys were still pulling for ND 30 days after the Sugar
quiet, but successful coach. There
February 15, but adults must pay "Although all the points in every Bowl, when the Irish journeyed out to the West Coast for their rematch
is not one senior currently playing
$2.00 to see the Saturday finals. with the Uclans.
series from here on are crucial in

for the Sioux as Bjorkman has
Children 12 and under will have to determining where we will finish," The significance of 85 additional fans watching the game in front of a
decided to go with 13 freshmen,
pay $.50 to see the finals. he said, "I think this series is even TV set in New York may have been lost on the Irish team as the game
four sophomores and two juniors.
The home indoor track schedule more important in terms of telling wound down to its 94-75 conclusion, but it meant plenty to Bill Horan and 
The Sioux have won six, dropped 12
is as follows: Friday, Feb. 1: (two at State us what this hockey team is really the rest of the Goshen Cneter staff.
Michigan last

Michigan and Bowling Green at 6 made of. Most of all, though, it meant plenty to the 85 youngsters who had
weekend) for 12 points.
p.m.; Friday, Feb. 15; CCC trials "One of our problems this year is something to cheer for, and who responded by making Notre Dame their at5p.m.; Saturday, Feb.16: CCC 
The best of this last pair is Alan 
that I don't think we have showed "Team of the Hour." finals at 12 noon; Thursday, Feb. Hangsleben, normally a 6-1, 185-enough self-<:onfidence in each Few schools could have pulled off such a loyalty coup when 85 New
pound defenseman. Two years
21: Western Michigan at 6:30 other. The only sure way to rid York teen-agers were involved, but the efforts of Roger Valdiserri and 
ago, he was an/ All-Anmerican
p.m.; Friday, March 1: Drake at the Sports Information office made Notre Dame the one that could. And
choice a· but~ ·last .·. ·(conU~~·«f ,~ .~' l1)
6:30p.m. as freshman, the legend of Notre Dame will be better off because of it. 
' • ,.;,~ :,. ., ~ :. :, '•' + ',. I ' 
. ) ' .. ' 
~ .. A .. • J. 
'' J, 









