On The Inside 
Civil Rghts Center to open • , • page 3 Streakers at ND .•• page 9 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 94 Wednesday, March 20, 1974 

Dr. Henry resigns after serving for two yean as SMC 
president. 

Dr. Henry, SMC president, resigns 
by Pattie Cooney St. Mary's Editor 
Dr. Edward L. Henry, President of St. Mary's College, has resigned his position as president. Henry's resignation is effective August 31, 1974. 
Students and faculty were informed of Henry's resignation in a letter released on March 8. However Henry's letter of resignation was submitted prior to th~ February meeting of the Board of Regents. According to Henry, his resgnation was in no way influenced by issues considered at that meeting. 
In his letter of resignation dated January 18, 1974, Henry stated, "I came in the midst of crisis and gave myself an outside time-frame of three years to restore 'normality.' It is not only back to normal but flourishing in most respects. My timetable for those areas over which I could exercise ,influence is running ahead of itself. My commitments to the College, I feel, have been more than fulfilled," explained Henry. 
Henry's resignation comes six months short of his three year contract. In his letter dated March 8, Henry further explains, "Because of your cooperation we have run ahead of the time table, and I am opting to leave with thirty rather than thirty-six months behind me," he stated. 
Henry was appointed to the presidency on March 12, 1972. Several accomplishments were attained by the administration during the two year period. Among these accomplishments, Henry cites a healing of the breach between St. Mary's and Notre Dame, the establishment of a simpler co-exchange program, putting the college on a more solid financial basis, and the undertaking of academic renovation. 
In reference to academic renovation Henry pointed out the creation of several new majors including psychology and business administration. 
In addition there has been an increase in the number of applications to SMC. "The increase is one of the highest in the nation; we had a 150 per cent increase last year," commented Henry. 
In addition, Henry also pointed to the planned renovation of the science hall and the construction of a new recreation center. The college has also purchased a computer which will automate service departments and provide training opportunities for students. 
Henry further commented, "I would be less than honest if I said everything fell into place, because it didn't. There were and are disappontments, but none that I can do anything about," he said. However, Henry declined to comment on the disappointments at this time. 
Henry's immediate plans for the future are not certain. "I have received a number of 
tenders which include several college presidencies, a major deanship at a large university, and my old position at St. John's is still attractive in terms of my 

(continued on page 10) 
President Nixon lifts Sunday gas restriction 
HOUSTON (UPI) -Presi­dent Nixon Tuesday night rescinded the Sunday closing of gasoline stations and announced there would be no gas rationing becaus~ of the lifting of the Arab otl embargo. 
"Effective this Sunday I have rescinded the order which cl~ses all. service statio1_1s," Nixon said at a televised question and answer session before a meeting of the National Association of Broad­casters. 
"It will not be necessary for us to have compulsory ration­ing in the United States.'' 
Nixon said the lifting of the ~il embargo, announc~d Mon­
~y by seyen of ~~ rune Arab oil-producmg nations, wo~ld mean more, ~ut not necessarily ch~per gasoline. . 
We m~st r~cogmze that as far as pr1ce. IS con~ern~ the pr~ssu~~ wlll continue, h_e said. RemeJ!lber Arab oll costs. about tWice .as much. as the oil ,'';'e produce m the Umted States. . . 
The pres1d~?.t also caubone~ the shortage Is. not over y_et. ~e urged ~otortsts to contmu_e 
~ar, poohng a~d slower dri­vmg and agam asked Con­gress to. p~ss emergency energy legislation. . 
A~ for th_e long lines at gas stations . which plagued mos_t of th~ n~~IOn l~st month, Nixon said: We w!~ now be a~le to ~lo~~te add1~10nal gasoline to 
mii_liS~ the lines and eventual­
ly ehmmate them."
H "d h' f w·n· 
. e sal. e~~rgy c .1e 1 Iam ~Imon ~~ mcreasmg a~oca­t10ns to mdustry and agncul­ture so they can have the 
necessary energy to operate at 
full apacit , 
c Y· 
Nixon said it was essen~ial 
that Congress deregulat~ pnces 
on na~ural gas to mcrease 
~roductiOn, allow more explora­
tlon for energy sources on 
gov~rnment propert~ ~nd relax 
~nv1ronmental restrictions, par­
tlcularly on coal.
"W h t f th 
al. e. atvhee 63 pelrd .~enh 0 'de 
Co m wor , e sa1 ,
"a d we sh uld b · g ·t·"
n o e usm 1 . 
In. the _long term, the 
pres1d~nt said, Congress should 
:uthoriZ~ more deep_ ports and 
peed p construction of nu­
clear po~er plants: 
He said the nation can meet 
the ..goal . he set of self­
~uff1c1ency m energy ~ut "only 
~ t~e ~ongre~~ will stop 
raggmg Its feet. 
As before, Nixon declared he 
would stand firm on the 
principle of presidential con­
fidentiality. He said he was 
trying to meet congressional 
demands for presidential files, 
"but I must think not of myself 
but of future presidents.'' 

"I'm not going to do anything · 
and I'm not going to give up to 
any demands that I believe will 
weaken the presidency. I will 
nqt participate in the destruc­
tion of the presidency of the 
United States while I am in 
office." 
Nixon hinted that if the 
Judiciary committee issues a 
subpoena for the 42 tapes, he 
might ignore it. 
He was asked how the 
committee could meet its 
responsibilities on impeachment 
when they were denied some of me documents ana evidence it feels are necessary for a complete investigation. He rear-firmed his stand on presidential confidentiality and said: 

"The House of Represen­tatives, just like the President, is bound by the Constitution. The Constitution says a presi­dent shall be impeached for treason, bribery or high crimes or misdemeanors." 
"I am suggesting that the House follow the Constitution," he said. "If they do, I will.'' 
When Nixon was asked about Special Prosecutor Leon Jawor­ski's statement that he did not get all he needed to conduct a proper investigation, he said: 
"What 1 was referring to in cooperation was that Jaworski said at the time of the indictments (of seven Water­gate defendants) that he had 
the full story on watergate. 
"As far as appearing before the grand jury, 1 respectfully refuse to do so. I would advise any president not to do so." 
Nixon was asked about his apparently disparate state­ments March 6 before reporters in Washington and Friday in Chicago before business ex­ecutives, about how he learned of payments being made to the seven original Watergate con­
spirators. "My statement on March 6 was incorrect insofar as I (said 
I) learned payments had been made for blackmail, that payments had been made for the purpose of keeping defend­
. · . 
ants still. I should have said I 
learned that payments were alleged to have been made," Nixon said, adding that because f d" t · 1 "'t uld b
1

~ pen m~ na s, wo e 
mappropr1ate for me to say any
more" 
Ni~on said he was "not obsessed" by press criticism of Watergate. 
"I am not going to be diverted by the press from doing what I set out to do.'' he said "I realize bad ews is 
• . n 
news. Good news IS not news. People don't win Pulitzer prizes
b b · f b t b b · 
Y emg or • u Y emg
against., 
He was reminded about his statement in 1962 to reporters that "you won't have Nixon to kick around any more " and was asked if he felt he was being kicked around now. 
Nixon shrugged. "Before this audience 1 should answer that?" 
Receiving applause after al­most all the 18 questions, Nixon vigorously defended his policies in foreign affairs, dwelling at some length on European matters. In Chicago, he had warned European nations against "ganging up" on the United States. He said Tuesday night, "They (European nations) must un· derstand if their political and economic policies appear to be hostile to us, it will be hard for any president to get through Congress the kind of policies 
l

needed to achieve our goals.'' 
He said he had postponed his trip to Europe next month 1 because "you should never go to the summit unless you know what's on the other side. Broad disagreements papered over by doubletalk are not good before 
.. ·. summit meetings." 
J
. 


220 W. Marion -Elkhart Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years Special Student Discount ................_. ~_ri_il~ you·r ·student ID·. ,_.-·;< ·:-·:: .: ·:<::. 
I I 
~~ 
l 
---~---~ 
SMC room picks tonight 
l. 
by Pattie Cooney Any student who is unable to 
St. Mary's Editor attend room lottery tonight, must 
give her I.D. to a friend, who will 
SMC room lottery for all classes pick a number for her. Further, if will be held tonight at 6:30p.m. in a student cannot be present for the following places: Student room selection she must give her Affairs area, LeMans Hall for next prospective roommate her ID and year's seniors, the Rec in LeMans room deposit receipt. basement for next year's juniors, A major change in the room and the Pebble in Holy Cross selection procedure has been made basement for next year's concerning the priority of lottery sophomores. numbers. In the past, student 
Room selection will be held at pulling lower numbers in the 
6:30 p.m. starting March 26 for lottery have had priority over resident advisors, March 27, for students who pulled higher juniors, March 28, for sophomores, numbers. This year the priority and April 2-3 for freshmen. number will not be announced until 
New male visitation a1ours begin at SMC Friday 
by Pattie-cooney St. Mary's Editor 
The implementation of new male visitation hours at St. Mary's will begin Friday. 'lbe new policy is: Friday from 6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., Saturday from 1:00 p.m. to 
10:00 p.m., and Sunday from 1:00 
p.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
"The negative response to the new visiting hours has been negligible. Following our decision of earlier this month we are 
Fr. Ted on TV 
Father Hesburgh was in­terviewed this morning in his of­fice by Harry Reasoner of ABC-TV Network News. The taped in· terview, which concerns the af­termath of the "Student Revolution," will be shown on ABC-TV's "Reasoner Report" between 5:30 p.m. and 6 p.m. (South Bend time) Saturday, March 23. 
therefore implementing such hours," annouriced Dr. Edward L. Henry, president of St. Mary's College.
Procedures used for open house on Sundays will also apply to the new policy, with one minor change. 
"Both the hostess and her male guest will leave their I.D. at the desk," explained Miss Kathl~n Mulaney, Dean of Students. 
Each hall drector and hall 
council will devise a procedure 
enlisting the hall residents for desk 
duty during the visiting hours. If 
no one is manning the desks during 
these hours, no male visitor.s will 
be allowed upstairs. 
"It is up to the students now to 
make the new polikcy work. It will 
be a chance for the women to pitch 
in together for the good of the dorm 
and to exhibit responsibility on a 
one-to-one basis," commented 
Mulaney. 

Students should read their hall 
bulletin boards for details concern­
ng desk duty and other security 
procedures. 
' 
noon Tuesday, March 26. 
Room deposit receipts must be presented by each student at the time of room selection. Room selection may not be made unless all students occupying the room present the room deposit receipt. No room will be assigned unless the total number of occupants makes the selection. 
If two students from different classes wish to room together the priority number of the 'up­perclassman will be considered valid and can be used to make the room selection. 
In Regina Hall, one priority number can be used to pull a block fo two to ten rooms. These rooms must be consecutive or directly across the hall from one another. 
One priority number can pull a suite as the room selection. 
Any student whose roommate withdraws after room selection can DEFINITELY expect a new roommate, assigned by the Housing Office. 
.If a student d~ not appear to p1ck a room on room selection night, she forfeits her place of priority until all classes have completed selection. Unless the Housing Office is notified to the contrary, the Room Selection Committee will assume that a student who has not selected a room will not be returnining as a resident student. 
Floor plans will be posted in the Deck (Le Mans Hall basement).Roo!" selection closes Thursday, April 4. No room changes will be made after this date. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the Univ~rsity of Notre Dame and St. Marys College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Obs~rver Box Q, Notre Dame, lndoana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame tnd 
46556. • . 

tonoon JoG· 


GOLF JACKETS 
FIVE 
COLORS 

WASH AND WEAR 
A classic in style, comfort and versatility. The perfect jacket for Michiana spring weather. Choose yellow, navy, oyster, natural or light blue. 

size 45......$25.50 

, ......................O:N. llJ~. CAMPUS....... NOTRE .DAME . 

r-----------------·--·­
1
\1
~ •.f. J , ,~ t,. •~ •'' $ ,t. , • \ .'" I • ' ' 'II 
Wednesday, March 20; 1974 · · • 

warld 
brief• 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D;Mass., -Tuesday urged. Congress to enact $6 million in immediate, across-the-board tax cuts in an effort to head off the possibility 
of a recession. 
Kennedy, in testimony before the Senate Finance Committee, said "the health of the American economy for the remainder of 1974 may well hang on the outcome of the hearings." 
Kennedy said he believed that only the stimulus of a tax cut could "take effect in time to keep a recession from materializing" in 1974. 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (UPI) -James Earl Ray, convicted killer of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., says he did not act alone but was part of a conspiracy to kill the black civil rights leader, according to anrticle in the current issue of the National Enquirer.
"There definitely was a conspiracy to kill Martin Luther King," the Enquirer quotes Ray as saying. "I was not alone i it. I can orove I wasn'tin the room when the shot was fired." 
an campus taday 
10:10 a.m.--finance forum, "redevelopment of soth bend," charles f. lennon, exec. dlr. of the dept. of community development and redevelopment of south bend, rooms 122-123, hayes-healy 
11: 15 a.m.--finance forum, "foreign and domestic money markets," william b. hummer, of wayne hummer & co. of chicago, rooms 122-123, hayes-healy 
1:15 p.m.--finance forum, "consumerism and the corporation," philip e. benton, v.p. of ford marketing corp. and general manager of the ford customer ser­vice division, rooms 122-123, hayes-healy 
2:20 p.m.--finance forum, "mortg~ge loans and the Institutional Investor," william g. johnson, asst. v.p. of citizens mortgage corp. and dlr. of Investor relations, rooms 122-123, hayes-healy 
4:30 p.m.--reily ledure, "terpene synthesis," prof. ernest wenkert, room 123, nieuwland sci. 
7:30  p.m.--ledure,  "the  journey  as  metaphor,"  
elizabeth  sewell,  hunter  college,  as  part  of  the  
american scene series, carroll hall  

8:00 p.m.--lecture, "right to life," keefe montgomery and therese bush, walsh hall 
8:10 p.m.--film, "billy jack," sponsored by the cac, eng. aud. $1.00 
8:15 p.m.--concert, robert conant, harpsichord, sponsored by the music dept. library aud. $1.00 
Upcoming Art Events: wed. thru sat. 
12 noon-5:00 p.m.--senior comprhensive, Nancy parker, marla placquad, cathy schell, and nancy pauly; ceramics, photography, and painting, moeeau gallery, smc 
12 noon-5:00 p.m.--senior comprehensive, 3-d designs by linda mckenzie, photo gallery, smc 
12 noon-9:00 p.m.--senior comprehensive, paintings by chris knecht, upper moreau gallery, smc 
12 noon-9:00 p.m.--senior comprehensive, photo slid screens by anita lowe, hammes gallery, smc 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club eng. bid., rm. 204 
Wednesday, March 20, 1974 the observer 
3 

Shriver to speak
Civil Righ~s C~nter to open
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 
On Friday, March 22, the University of Notre Dame's new Civil Rights Center will be dedicated as the highlight of two days of lectures and conference sessions on equal opportunity issues. 
The lectures will be given by the Hon. R. Sargent Shrver, former candidate for vice-president in the 1972 election. The topic of Shriver's lectures is "The Role of Executive Leadership in Civil Rights." Shriver's talk is the third in a series of annual civil rights lectures sponsored by the Center for Civil Rights and the Law School. Shriver's first lecture will be given in the Center for Continu­ng Education Auditoriu, Thursday, at 8:00 p.m. The second lecture 
will be held in the center again on 
Friday at 3:00p.m. 
The conferences will include several of the lawyers and civil rights leaders who participated in the famous Brown vs. the Topeka Board of Education decison. The Brown case was the landmark 1954 
. Supreme Court decion stating that separate but equal is inherently unequal. The conferences are the first in a series of annual civil rights conferences sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights. 
The first conference will be ehld in the Memorial Library Audium Thursday at 9:00A.M. The topic i~ "Reflections on Brown v. Board of Education--the Continuing Challenge." 
According to Michael B. Wise, assistant director of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights," 



Judge Sirica to 
,0 By RONALD E. COHEN , WASHINGTON (UPI) -John 
J. Sirica turned 70 Tuesday, and his birthday present was to relinquish the job that made his name a household word. 
Sirica, the tough-minded ju­rist credited with helping pry the lid off the Watergate scandals, gave up his job as chief judge of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. 
Having reached mandatory retirement age, Sirica turned over the job to George L. Hart Jr., who at 68 by law can serve just 18 months in his new post. 
Sirica, who will remain on the bench even though he no longer is chief judge, promised to continue overseeing the court actions boiling out of America's worst political scandal. 
A former professional boxer, 
Sirica fought his most dramatic 
battles from the federal bench 
-beginning with the trial in 
January, 1973, of the original 
seven Watergate defendants. 
Short-tempered over what he 
considered inadequate prepara­
tion and flaccid government 
questioning, Sirica refused to 
accept at face value the 
testimony before his court. 
S k i l I f u I I y, sometimes abrasively, Sirica dug and dug and dug, using unorthodox methods. He pronounced provi­sio~al sentences and dangled lemency before defendants will­ing to fill in glaring gaps in the Watergate story. 
He cajoled and he threatened. He stormed and he glared. 
Finally one man talked. 
James W. McCord Jr. wrote Sirica a letter charging that :•others" had escaped capture m the Watergate raid, trial witnesses had perjured them­selves and "political pressure to plead guilty and remain silent" had been bought on the defendants. 
The rest is history. The revelations shook the adminis­tration. The President's closest aides are under indictment. Nixon himself is the subject of a congressional impeachment inquiry. 
But Sirica's methods were bound to invite criticism. 
Civil libertarians decry Siri­ca's tactics. A past president of the American Bar Association, Chesterfield Smith, said "We must be concerned about a federal judge-no matter how worthy his motives or how much we may applaud his 
The twelfth annual business­finance forum sponsored by the the finance club, will be held at four different times today with four guest speakers. 
Professor Paul Conway of Notre Dame's finance department said the main speaker will be Phillip E. Benton, Jr., Vice President of Ford Marketing Corporation and General Manager of Ford Customer Service Division at 1:15 p.m. 
Benton will be speaking on 
Consumerism in the corporation. 
Local Ford dealers will also be 
present at this session. 
At the 10:10 session, Charles F. 
LinDen, Jr., the executive director 
of the Department of Community 
Development and Redevelopment 
of South Bend will speak on the 
redevelopment of South Bend. 
At 11:15 a.m., William B. 
Hummer, partner in the Wayne­
Hummer Company, and in­
vestment firm from Chicago will 
speak on foreign and domestic 
money markets. 
The last sessio, at 2:20p.m., will 
feature W. GH. Johnson, Assistant All ~~ panelists participated ~n 
the ongmal Brown case: They will 
tal~ ~bout that ex~r1ence, and 
their m~olvement With the case. 
They will ~lso ta~k about.~ha~ has 
h~ppened m the field o~,civil rights 
smce the Brow~ case. 
Two nottable figures on.~e ~anel 
are Jack ~reenberg, CIVil-rights 
attorney Director-counsel of the 
naacp . Legal Defense and 
Education Fund, and the ~on. 
Constance. B~ker Motley' Umted 
States DlS~IC~ Judge for the 
Southern DIStri~t of N~w York. 
Judge Motley IS ~e fu-st black 
w~m~n to be appomted as U.S. 
District Judge. . 
The. second conference ~ill .be 
held m. the ce~ter: for Co~tinumg
Education Auditor1~m~ F,~Iday at 
9:00 A:M. The topi~ IS current Issues~ Desegrega~on .~nd Equal E~~cation Op~rbl~Ity. . " . 
The Panel, satd Wtse, wlll 

retire 
results-using the criminal sen­tencing process as a means and tool for further criminal investi­gation of others." 
When Washingtonian Maga­
zine assessed District of Co­
lumbia judges in 1972, Sirfca 
was ranked in the bottom 
quarter. Even after Watergate, 
Washingtonian found no reason 
to rescind its judgment. 
But public reaction has been 
overwhelmingly favorable, and 
Nixon himself in May cited a 
"brave Federal judge" as one 
of the factors in bringing out 
the full Watergate story. 
Son of an Italian immigrant, 
Sirica earned his way through 
school greasing cars, selling 
newspapers and boxing. For­
mer world heavyweight champ 
Jack Dempsey was best man at · his wedding in 1952. 
On Jan. 1, Sirica was named 1 Time magazine's Man of the · Year "as a symbol of the 
American judiciary's insistence 
on the priority of law through­
out the sordid Watergate saga 
of 1973." 
Told he was being considered 
for the honor, Sirica declared: 
"If this is in recognition of 
the nation's judiciary, it is an 
honor for all of us." 
Finance club sponsors four speakers 
flrttfOIIt 
Tires 
GROUP PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
Now available at a special discount to all students and em­ployees of Notre Dame. We handle a complete line of 4 ply, Belted, Radial, and Import car tires; at your special price. Also, our Philco appliance and Electronic Department will extendthe discount. Please bring your I.D. card for iden­tification. 
OFFER GOOD ONLY AT OUR DOWNTOWN STORE 
502 s. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
··~~..;.:..~.·,...'·;..~·~--...,·;_';:..'·:...'·:...·~'"'"""'""';..':.._~------------! 
.......·J 
... .,., ·-.. -. ~ . -. --.. --..... 
discuss the ssues o~ educat!o~, bus­ng, ~esegregatwn, . bllmgual education and metropolitan school desegregation." . 
.Among the panelists are the Hon. Richard G. HJtche~, mayor of Gary • Ind. Hatcher IS one of the firs~ black men elected mayor of a maJor !'merican city-h~ is also the co~au-man of the National Black Caucus. Also on the panel is the Ho~. J. Stanley Pottinger, As~Istant Att~mey General of the Umted States m charge of the Civil Rights .Division of the Department of Justice. 
The Dedication of the Center for Civil Rights will be held in the law library, Friday at 8:45 pm.m Remarks will be made by Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Arthur J. Goldberg, former associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court and U.S. am­
bassador to the United Nations, will deliver the principal address. In conjunction with the 
T,Jm McMahon General Agent 
ae<tication, a tribute will be given to Fr. Hesburgh, who served for 15 years, from 1957 to 1972, on the u.s. Civil Rights Commission. 
Notre Dame's Civil Rights Center was established by a $500,000 grant last summer from the Ford Foundation and is headed by Howard Glickstein, former staff director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. Its objectives are public policy analysis in the fields of humansand civil rights, in-depth study of existing civil rights prob.lems and proposals of solutions, preparation of a hiistory of civil rights developments from 1957 to 1972, service i the civil rights area as a catalyst for ideas, a clearinghouse for information, and an educational resource for students. 
Finally' on Saturday morning Mr. Goldberg will be available to 
students in a discussion session from 9:30 to 11:00 in the law school lounge. 
J 
""i I 


'learafter ,·car~ semester I after semester~ the CollcgcMaster· I'rom Fidclitv Union Life has ht-cn the most acceptt~ most popular plan on campust~ all overAmerica.· 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegeMaster'· Field Associate in your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
Carlton Higgenbotti~~n; 

Vice President of the Citizen Mortgage Corporation and Director of Investor Relations in Detroit. 
Professor Conway says the 
forum is generally run fo the college and university community to have some acquaintance with business topics. Usually the 
forums are -more finance orien­
tated, dealing with such topics as 
money and banking, investing, 
insurance, but this year the 
speeches will be more diverse. 
The sessions will be held in rooms 122-123 in Hayes-Healy : building, and are free and open to 
anyone. 
4 the Qbs«;tr:v.~r ,,VJ.ed~f.~a.Yt ,f'A~r~.~~.~~~},?!-4 


Wall Street Journal reports 
More than football found at N.D. 
Editors Note: The following ar­snicker." commitment and its "vital core" or a backwash. We should discuss became popular in a David and ticle appeared in the March 11, Adds Harvard sociologist David of Catholic teachers, who still all issues. This doesn't mean we Goliath way. The tradition just 1974 edition of the Wall Street Reisman: "The main difference outnumber members of other agree with them, but we can't grew." 
Journal. The Observer has chosen between their student and ours is religions on the faculty by more hide." In a way, however, he to reprint it for the benefit of those that ours is more self-eonfident. than two-to-one. "A Catholic agrees that Notre Dame isn't as Having a Goal who may have missed it during the The Notre Dame student un­university emphasizes moral Catholic as it used to be. "One spring break. Further, the Ob­derestimates himself; certainly leadership, commitment to justice, makes less and less differentiation Catholics, of course, no longer server would fike to invite any the intellectual difference isn't integrity and honor," he says. "If between Catholic and Christian are out of the mainstream. Nor is member of the Notre Dame that great. I can't think of any ever we needed education that was now," he says. Notre Dame a poor boy's school, community to submit their written reason, except snobbery and sensitive to higher values, it's Despite the criticism, alumni tuition is a hefty $2,616 a year. Yet response to this article by either prejudice, why a non-Catholic today. Everyone in Watergate was loyalties have remained steadfast. even today Notre Dame appears to mailing it to the Observer, Box Q, shouldit't go there." a product of the universities, some Contributions from alumni year .in attract a student who is more or dropping it off at the Observer of the best, yet they showed a and out rank among the top 10 in oriented toward business and the offices on the Third Floor of Confiscated Tickets monumental lack of perception of the nation, despite the school's professions than the norm. LaFortune. values." relatively small size (6,600 un­Kevin Britt, for example, is a 
It used to be easy to recite a Yet Catholicism seems dergraduates and 1,750 graduate neatly dressed, 18 year-old fresh­Copyright The Wall Street Journal litany of reasons. Students for­decidedly secondary when it students). Last year's alumni man from Kettering, Ohio, who 
NOTRE DAME, Ind.--Father merly led a cloistered life and comes to hiring. "I told them I was contributions of $3.5 million will go addresses his elders as "sir" or Theodore M. Hesburgh, president complained of the school's West ! an agnostic," says a philosophy toward raiding other schools for "ma'am." His father went to of the University of Notre Dame, Point-like disci;>linary code. I professor whom Notre Dame tried senior faculty. Notre Dame, too. His views aren't once visited the chancellor of Dormitory lights were turned off at 1 to lure from a prestigious Mid­Notre Dame's powerful football untypical.
11 p.m.; permission was needed to western university. "They said it teams ttave played a large part in "I'm flattered to be in thisEngland's Oxford University. He 
found him relaxing in his office, travel to nearby South Bend; Mass didn't rna tter." He adds: "I also keeping alumni loyal while · the group;" he says. "Most people quietly reading Plato in Greek. was compulsory, and bed checks discovered that I knew more university has undergone un­here seem to have a goal and know 
were frequent. Students were
How, Father Hesburgh asked, did Aquinas than anyone in their settling changes. It also-has made what they want to do. Friends I encouraged to pray for guidance department." a monetary contribution. During have at other schools seem to be
the chancellor find time for leisure 
and still keep the university before going out on dates with girls Attracting "name" scholars for fiscal 1972, Notre Dame cleared squandering their time." running? from neighboring St. Mary's senior posts has proved difficult. about $28,000 on intercollegiate Kevin says he doesn't mind, the 
College, who are kMwn locally as This year, however ·, benefiting athletics which went into the university rules. "I feel they"Tradition," the chancellor said. 
the "belles of St. Mary's." financially from a moratorium on school's general fund. This year, really care about me and that it's"Sometimes," replied Father Today's regulations are more
Hesburgh, "I think tradition is my a costly building program, Notre with a lucrative post-season Sugar for my own good," he explains.
lenient, although four students who Dame began a long-term cam­Bowl appearance, profits un­He adds that he intends to go intobiggest problem." 
held a noisy dormitory party last paign to endow three or four doubtedly will be higher. business after graduation.
Indeed, it has been. Notre 
Dame's dual heritages of football semester did have their football faculty chairs a year at a cost of Notre Dame's football players "People tell me I'm a lot like my and Catholicism (a faculty tickets confiscated. Rules forbid about $800,000 a piece. "We'll be aren't dumb jocks either, the Dad (an advertising executive)," member once correlated 50 years "overdrinking" and sex in dor­looking for the best people in the university says. It maintains that he says. "That's the highest of football scores with communion mitories but are often ignored, country, people from places like more than 95 per cent of its players compliment anyone can pay me. attendance) are regarded with students say. Nor can anyone Harvard, Yale and Stanford," says in the past 10 years have graduated Notre Dame made him a success. suspicion in academic circles. remember the last time he prayed Father Hesburgh. "We can afford in the regular four-year period. I want it to do the same for me." Both are viewed as "anti­before a date. them now." Collegiate athletic officials intellectual" and· have led out­A major problem, though, was Until now, Notre Dame had estimate the graduation rate for "Busy Library" siders to concludet that _the the faculty, which before World sought to build its faculty mainly players at other major football development of an open university, War II was dominated by priests of by hiring bright young Ph. D.s universities at about 40 per cent. Senior Joe Abell, managing
the Order of the Holy Cross. (A directly out of college. "In "And we don't have a physical editor of·the student newspaper,free to question and debate, was 
french Holy Cross Priest, Edward philosophy, for instance, we ob­education major either," boasts
unlikely. (continued on page 5) 
But Notre Dame, a 1,000 acre Sorin, founded the school in 1842). tained dosiers on every new Ph.D. Ed "Moose" Krause, Notre 
Father Leo R. Ward, who taught in the country~ says Father Dame's athletic director.
wooded retreat of neo-Gothic 
The Thomas A.
philosophy for 40 years, says that James T. Burtchaell, the Notre Dame football is as
buildings surrounded by Indiana 
unqualified priests often were sent university's chancellor. "We had popular as ever. It is the only 
Dooley Foundation
cornfields is changing. In the late 
to teach in departments that didn't four openings and got the top-four college or university whose games 
19605, it became the nation's first 
is Working••••
Catholic institution of higher want them. Many also saw their people." The program has worked are carried weekly over a national 
pastoral duties as more important so well that other schools, in­radio network (Mutual). "It's hard
learning to transfer control from 
in Cambodia, in Laos,
than their academic ones, he says. cluding some in the Ivy League, to explain the phenomenon,"says
its founding order of priests to a 
in Nepal, in the hearts 
Indeed, the theology department at have begun to raid Notre Dame for Prof. Richard Sullivan, who has
board composed primarily of 
of millions.
laymen. A little more than a year one time was so dogmatic that talent. In the last several years, its written a history of the university. 
some Catholic students claimed faculty members have gone on to "For a long period, however,
ago, the university abandoned its 
they weren't Catholic to avoid the full professorships or endowed Catholics were out of the main­
' monastic stance and admitted 
information
requirement. The environment chairs at the universities of stream of American culture and 
l 
women. 


(ii)for 
on how you can help: Write P.O. Box 1195
, also dictated that any conflict Chicago, Cornell, North Carolina, Notre Dame gave them something 
between academics and religious Virginia, Munich in Germany and to cheer about. We also had an 
South Bend, Ind.
A Grain of Salt 
doctrine was settled in favor of the Fribourg in Switzerland. image of a poor boy's school and latter, according to some faculty Of course, many of the changesAnd now many scholars are members. 
at Notre Dame haven't set well
saying that Notre Dame with some alumni who feel that the 
(pronounced "Noter Daym" ac­cording to a university ruling once "Publish or Parish" school is abandoning its religious 
absolutes. A recent birth control
made to aid sportscasters) not only has become a fine Catholic I Today, however, priests make conference on campus drew university, but also appears on the up less than 10 per cent of the 745-particular ire. "Isn't it time that 
verge of becoming a fine univer­member faculty. They are subject the universily had enough con­to the same tenure and publishing fidence in itself ... to indeed take 
sity, period. Special centers for requirements as lay faculty. ("We stands on Catholic issues . . . andbiological research, medieval used to say · it was publish or weather the attacks that it isstudies and civil rights are leaders. 
parish," says one department suppressing academic freedom,''in their fields. The general un­chairmen.) The theology wrote one graduate of the class of dergraduate program is regarded department is populated now by '67: "Other universities have theas one of the nation's best, and a 
recent opinion survey by thE more liberal priests who courage to be secular. Why doesn't American Council of Education frequently discuss church reform Notre Dame have the courage to be Catholic?"
placed the quality of Notre Dame's and' existentialism, and oc­
graduate departments among the casionally express doubts about top 30 private universities in the the Immaculate Conception, Steadfast Alumni 
country. students say. Still, Father Hesburgh says Father Hesburgh's answer: "I
Itmight be even better than that. 
Notre Dame will retain its Catholic don't want this place to be a ghetto"Those polls should be taken with 
a grain of salt," says Lewis Mayhew, a professor of education at Stanford University who has closely studied the course of higher education in the U.S. "A school that's going downhill will hang onto an undeserved high rating for years afterward, and a school on the way up, like Notre Dame, might never get the recognition it deserves." 
Evidence exists, however, that the school's reputation is spreading to the non-Catholic world. Author Norman Mailer, who is Jewish, says that if his son <now 10) were ready for college, he might try to talk him into going to Notre Dame. "It's a great college," he says. "What you get from the students is a lively Catholicism plus a lively agnosticism. I can use the word 'soul' there, ..and. they don'~-·.· 
~ ~ 
--. -.. -...........;. 
If you compare,you'll select ltna... If you don't compare, don't say we didn't warn you! 
JIM CAMPBELL 120 W. LaSalle Street Suite 1001 South Bend, Indiana 
I 
233-8207 The JEtna College Plan ... 

LIFE&CASUALTY
Life Insurance for students JEtna Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
-
'--j ......... w _.,. ... __ .. _ .. _., ____ --~ •• ~' 
...... .............. .. 
RARE EARTH 
and special guest 
Roy Gallagher 

Ticket Prices: 
Tickets on sale: 
Bleachers ............ $3.50 · 
NOTRE DAME,A. C. C. Mon-Sat 9 to 5 
Lower Arena •.•.•.• $4.50 
Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall
Main Floor ..........$5.50 
St. Joseph Bank • a11d branches
Loge •..•.••.•.....•.•.•.$5.50 
First Bank • Main office only
Platform ..............$5.50 
Elkhart Truth 
. . .. .
~ ~ 

Wednesday, March 20, 1974 
the observer 
The Wall Street Journal analyzes ND life 
(continued from page 4) 
The Observer, notes that students are slow to arouse to the same student politics that dominate other campuses. "This is a real grade-point factory," he says. "On any given night you'll fiJld three­
quarters of the student body in the 
library." 
Notre Dame had little of the turmoil that upset other univer­sities during the Vietnam war. A student sit-in against recruiters from Dow Chemical and the Central Intelligence Agency in 1969 prompted Father Hesburgh to proclaim that in the future demonstrators would be given "15 minutes of meditation to cease and desist"; those who wouldn't were to be suspended or arrested. The 
John Bradernas announces candidacy; seeks ninth terDl as U.S. Representative 
Congressman John Brademas announced on Friday, March 15, his candidacy for a ninth term as 
U.S. Representative from In­diana's Third District. 
Brademas filed his official declaration for nomination in the May 7 Democratic primary during a tour of courthouses in Elkhart, LaPorte, and St. Joseph Counties. 
Now in his eighth term, Brademas, at 47, is the youngest member of the House Leadership in which, as Chief Deputy Majority Whip, he ranks fourth. 
Said Brademas, "I believe that my 16 years of experience in the House will enable me to continue to world effectively in the interests of 
Safety Council uncovers sll'eciker 
safety rules 
Streakermania has hit America! 
Dashing barefoot from the ankles 
up across campus has replaced 
goldfish swallowing, phone booth 
stuffing and political disturbances 
as the No. 1 extracurricular ac­
tivity. Some college officials see it 
as refreshingly non·violentway for 
boys and girls to air their dif­ferences! 
The National Safety Council, in 
the interests of Public service, 
would like to "expose" a few safety 
hazards for streakers. 
Stripped down to the bare 
essentials, the NSC has uncovered 
these safety rules. 
If you must streak­
-Wear sneakers. They give better 
traction for that all important 
speed and tennies protect your 
tootsies from harm. A cut foot 
may put an end to your streaking 
career. 
-Wear reflectorized tape. This is 
especially important for night 
streaking. Fashion "bumper 
numbers" or "tail lights" from 
tape. Imaginatively adorn your 
anatomy with tape on back, sides 
and front so that you don't end up 
among the streaking wounded. 
-Keep your eyes peeled. Watch 
out for cars, campus excavation 
holes, wire chains around parking 
lots, fences. You may miss more 
than your classes if you don't 
wear your glasses! Tips on your 
clothesless carriage-eyes straight 
ahead and locked" in on hazards. 
Although the National Safety 
Council doesn't condone 
streaking, the naked truth is that 
many college campuses will be 
"buffer zoned" this weekend. So if 
your flesh is willing this weekend, 
make sure you have a streak -of 
good luck! ! ! 
edict was widely criticized at NotreDameand elsewhere ("If we had taken that stand, the place probably would have burned down," said a California college 
administrator at the time), but students never challenged it. Notre Dame remains one of only several private universities with four active ROTC branches on campus. 
Yet that atmosphere has bred some solid scholarship, especially in the sciences, where Notre Dame is ranked high. 
The chemistry department first gained prominence in the early 1920s when Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, a Holy Cross priest, discovered the basic formula for synthetic rubber. The patents were sold to DuPont, and Notre 
the people of our District and our nation. 
"Serving in the House Leadership contributes, in my view, to that effectiveness." 
Brademas predicted that the Congressional elections this year would be waged on three major issues: "1) the corruption and lawlessness of the Nixon White House; 2) the Administration's failure to control inflation; and 3) the Administration's lack of an effective energy policy." 
Although Brademas also predicted "substantial Democratic gains in November," he pledged to conduct a "vigorous, hard-working campaign in every county in our District. 
"At a time when the American people are deeply disturbed about the quality of leadership of their national government, I hope that my own record will merit the continuing support of Democrats, Republicans and independents alike." 
The South Bend Democrat is a member of the House Education and Labor Committee and Chairman of its Select Sub­committee on Education. 
In recent years he has sponsored many bills in the fields of higher education, elementary and secondary education, vocational education, services to the elderly, vocational rehabilitation of the handicapped, libraries, child abuse prevention, the arts and humanities, and drug abuse education. 
He is a sponsor of legislation, recently passed by the House and Senate, to provide protection for worker's pension plans in the event of plant shutdowns. 
Brademas is also sponsoring this year measures to reform cam­paign financing practices, to provide special unemployment benefits for workers affected by energy shortages, and to require 
VIRGIL FOX 
RETURNS! 
to Bethel College 
Friday 8:00 p.m. March 22, 1974 
$3.00 Adults $2.00 Students 
Goodman Auditorium Bethel College Group Rates Available! Purchase tickets at Fine Arts Office 
For Information Call 259-8511 extext. 66 

Dame collected royalties of $2 million by the time they expired before World War II. 
. The bacteriology laboratory piOneered the technique for raising germ -free mice and guinea pigs for experimental research, and a descendent of a Notre Dame-bred mouse went on the first moon trip. The university is also a major international center for radiation 
chemistry and parasitology. In addition, scientists at its Vector Laboratory are leading the fight to eliminate the Aedes aegypti, a mosquito that is the prime carrier of yellow fever, still a major killer in Africa. 
Civil Rights and Logic 
Notable contributions are being 
oil companies to supply in­formation on fuel production to the Federal government. 
"During my years in Congress," said Brademas, "I have worked for programs to benefit children, young people, older citizens, and the handicapped. 
"I have supported measures to protect our environment and to strengthen law enforcement. 
"I have helped thousand of in­dividual citizens and community organizations with problems af­fecting veterans, military ser­vices, social security, im­migration, and small business. 
"And I have worked closely with local government officials on a wide variety of projects to benefit their communities." 
Brademas has given particular attention to helping local industry win government business. 
The Subcommittee hechairs is 
currently considering bills he has 
introduced dealing with the 
education of andicapped children, 
aid to museums, nutrition 
programs for the elderly, and a 
White House Conferece on 
Libraries. 
Brademas said he has also filed 
a declaration of candidacy by mail 
with the Secretary of State of In­
diana. 
Born in Mishawaka, Brademas 
is a resident of South Bend and a 
Navy veteran. He is a graduate of 
South Bend Central High School, 
Harvard University, and Oxford 
University, England, where he 
studied as a Rhodes Scholar. 
He is a member of the Board of 
Overseers of Harvard University 
and has received honorary degrees 
from several colleges and 
universities, including the 
University of Notre Dame, Saint 
Mary's College, Ball State 
University, and Marian College, 
Indianapolis. The United States 
Junior Chamber of Commerce 
named him one of America's Ten made in the humanities and law as well. A civil rights center, backed by the Ford Foundation, opened recently and is expected to become ~ne ~f the nation's principal hbranes for the use of legislators ~nd historians studying civil rights Issues. Among other things, the center houses Father Hesburgh's papers from his 15-year tenure on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. (He was fired by President Nixon after publicly criticizing the administration's stance on civil rights.) 
In 1959, the university began publishing the Notre Dame Journal of Formal Logic, which symbolic logicians now consider to be one of their two most important publications. "At the beginning I 
Outstanding Young Men of 1962. 
Brademas is a member of the Central Committee of the World Council of Churches, the Board of Church and Society of the United Methodist Church, and of the Board of Regents of Saint Mary's College, where he was once a faculty member. He also serves on the Advisory Council of the College of Liberal Arts at the University of Notre Dame. 
His father, Stephen, is a retired restaurant operator and his mother, Beatrice, has been a public school teacher for more than 45 years. 
Brademas is also a member of the Joint (House-Senate) Com­mittees on the Library of Congress and on printing, and of the National Historical Publications Commission. 
SCHOLASTIC 
General Meeting and Elections 
Wednesday, March 20th 7 pm 
ALL STAFF MEMBERS URGED TO ATTEND 
NOTRE DAME 
t::LIJE ()F ~~W ()l?I_~A~§ 
P.O.BOX 51112 
THIS DESIGN IS NOT SCREEIIIED OR PRINT~!: SLIT HAND 
PAINTED IN FUll. COLOR ON FINE QUALITY NEFDI EPOII\IT CANVAS. Measuring 12"X 9" it shows a delighlul two tooe green IRISHMAN hC?Jdmg a Sugar Bowl Trophy proclaiming Notre Dam~ not only 
wonners ol the Sugar Bowl but N0.1 in lhe NATION. _ He·s riding home from victory on a CRIMSON Elepha~t on a loght yellow background. Blue border. Crimson. blue ano red lett.,..s. 
THIS KIT CONTAINS' HAND PAINTED CANVAS SUFFICIENT PERSIAN YARN TO COMPLETE THE ENTIRE PIECE. $ When stitched have framed or made into • pillow.
*~T~tl~~:~u~~~8.E OF THE CONTINENTAL 16• ··········································-·-···-········-··········~~-~?!'!'!! .... 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW ORLEANS, P.O.BOX 5l1l2cN.O .• LA.70151 
Please send  • kitfsl aiS16.00each.  Enc:losed 1 I Cheek 1 )loloney()rder  
NAME  .  _____ADDRESS___  
CITY  STATE-----· _ _  _ZIP CODE  

had to send out letter to colleagues to solicit articles," recalls Boleslaw Sobocinski, professor emeritus of philosophy and editor of the journal. "Now I have 150 articles waiting for publication, and we come out only four times a year." 
And the university's Medieval Institute, unique in the country, has nearly completed its 15-year task of microfilming the Am­brosiana, a 17-Century Milanese library that is one of the world's major repositories of medieval manuscripts and documents. "At first they wouldn't allow us to touch a thing," says Prof. Astrik L. Gabriel, director of the institute and a . noted medieval authority. "We had to get Cardinal Montini (now Pope Paul VI) to intercede for us. 
"Somehow," he adds, "I don't think Yale would have gotten the same cooperation." 

Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
ro--------------,.-­
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT N£WSPAPER 
AnnMcCarry Editorial Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
--------------~---------~------~----­
A Job Well Done 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief 
Terry Keeney News Editor 
Wednesday, March 20, 1974 
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Marlene Zloza Managing Editor 
John Kloos Advertising Manager 
With the resignation of Dr. Edward L. Henry, St. Mary's College has lost one of its most valuable assets. · 
Dr. Henry assumed the St. Mary's presidency following the dissolution of merger plans on a temporary three-year contract. Henry effectively steadied a wavering transition period that followed by contributing his vast experience as an educator and administrator. 
An honest and straightforward ap­proach has been an admirable Henry trademark. Besides closing the gap between Notre Dame and St. Mary's after the merger plans fell through, be must also be credited with raising SMC enrollment, financial security, and in­creased academic opportunities. 
Most recently Henry aided in amending St. Mary's paritals. Although terms were reached through what Henry termed a "compromise," his efforts in dealingwith the Board of Regents are laudable and indicative of his performance over the past two years. 
The loss of Dr. Henry will definitely detract from the programs which he has begun. Even though his service was short his accomplishments deserve a hearty recognition and thanks. Hopefully when formed, the Search Committee will fill Henry's vacated position with someone of equal caliber and ability. 
-Tom 'Drape 
A Job to Do 
Today's issue is the first published by the new editorial board. There are no magnanimous changes other than a few new names in new places.
The Observer will always intrinsically beTheObserver. Underneath it all lies a heritage of dedicated workers and responsible reporting. 
People like Jerry Lutkus, Joe Abell, Butch Ward, Art Ferranti and Dan Barrett recognized this responsbility to the Notre Dame community. Accord­ingly, they have worked devotedly to serve the university, perpetrating its only true organ of communication-The Observer.Now, as many before them, they have relinquished their positions, entrusting the flame of their journalistic torch to a new staff. 
The difference, therefore, between the old and the new is a subtle one. They have grown tired of their burden. We are becoming aware of what our job entails. 
We will learn, undoubtedly make mistakes, maybe even do something right once in a while. But through it all we will make you, the reader, our first concern. Our duty is to you-to report the news fairly, without bias, offering editorial comment on that which we feel worthy· of the consideration. Whatever the task, from sports page to cartoon, we will strive to do 'it 1cleanly. 
The Editorial Board 

'HELLO, POLICE-I THINK WE HAVE STREAKERS!' 
ROtAN!), I CAN'T 
1HE 5Tt//JtNT5 I 
8EJJEVE THAT M051 
YOV 1JUI(EI) 10 6AV& 
COtL&6£ STl/Ptm5 NO. 
0/PN'T 1161H/i/R IAKJRP OF­
HAVE !I«OMe 50 .IPIPN'r 

HAVi 70?! HONOR 7HAT THEY 
ROtANO, WHAT
PKAI¥Nr! ARE HA~ 7lJ. 
11/HAT{}(J REPI?SENTEP A 
oto yO(/ cov~ SPORTS.
)f:1{l 5111{6 ~ ~R­
YOll NATIONAL TR£NP. 
AT THE 5AI60N
IFIEP 1H1S 7/le/1) 
MHW?! 
I
81JR~IJ?
I
ACQ:2S5 1JE {IJ(,f{fky? 
\ 
J 

Lauderdale Dialogues 
For th?se who missed the spectacle of Fort Lauderdale, swamped _ by frothmg waves of "fun-loving college kids", here's a sort of travelogue, told in slivers of conversations. People seem to act and think a bit differently there, and I propose that this difference is the most telling reflection of Lauderdale in the spring. 
At the "Elbo Room" (remember the bar in "Where the Boys Are''), just having arrived after 29 hours of driving: 
"Hey, you go to Notre Dame?" 
"Yeah." 
"Wow. That's really far out!" 
"Far...why?" 
"Ohman, don't you see? I'm from Indiana!" 
"Oh." 
Conversations tended to be more and more terse as the week went on; to wit, a confrontation between a hirsute Domer, and an overtly overendowed young lady: 
"You go to Notre Dame, huh?" 
"yeah. -You?" 
"Oh I go to Smythe. But you must be an athlete, huh?" 
"No." 
"Aw, no sport at all?" 
"Well, no J can't really recall any right off. As I remember things I just go to school there." ' "oh ... Well, you must be a redneck then." "What?" "You go to school in Indiana.'' "I...yeah, right, lhate guys with long hair, and girls without bras." <A glance well placed:) 
"Well, I'm leaving. You insulted me." 
"You haven't exactly made my week either. honey." 
Maybe you had to be there. Here's something more familiar.They have drunks there too. We found this character wandering a parking lot: 
"Hi. Where you from?" 
"Hi. Notre Dame." 
"Oh, that's too bad. I'm from Indiana, and I can't find my car keys." · "Have you checked your left hand in the last half hour?" "Oh wow, thanks, a lot. I hate Notre Dame, but I hope you guys go all the way." 
We beg." 
Jesus people prowled the Strip (if gay lib didn't corner you God squad did) in Lauderdale. One such encountered a certain Domer who leaves no entendre untumed: 
-''Sir? Sir! Do you know Jesus loves you?" 
"No, but if you sing a few bars I'll hum along." 
At a dance bar with wall-to-wall people: 
· "What a zoo this is. Makes Corby's look like a National Honor Society meeting." "Yeah, look at those animals!" Another chap, quite tipsy staggers into the conversation: 
"You guys are right, this place is unreal" 
What? I can't hear you over the band" 
"Besides, the band's too loud. I hate this boy-girl hustle game." 
"You must be a Domer." 
"No, but I came down iwth some." 
''Sounds like a disease. Hey where you going?'' 
'"Nother beer." 
And from a not wholly unplaced academician: 
"I bet it'd be murder to try to study or teach here." 
"Why do you say that?" 
"Can you see trying to discuss the ephemerality of the material world, the impoverishment of sensuality, or the ... the ... 
"Whatssamatter?" 
"Would you look at the rack on that one?" 
Lauderdale in the spring isn't always a simple experience. It raises odd tensions and ambivalences in surprisingly many people. Ob­viously, it's a dream world, a playground eliciting appetites much more intense than homelier places do (and offering certain kinds of stisfactions to them). Consequently, people who haven't seen it (and sometimes, people who have) ask, does Florida offer better resolutionsto those yearnings? The answer might be yes, but in any event, it'd have to be a very qualified and tentative answer, and an­swer that shares the ambivalences that these dialogues perhaps reflect. I sure enjoyed myself. But I felt this ambivalence too. We visited Disney world on the way back Domeward, and rode all the rides, with the carefully placed mechanical alligators, the plastic monsters, and the robot presidents. 
The same night we drove through theTennesseemountains in a bad sleet storm, really dangerous and not nearly as much pure fun. Yet 1 did feel a strange senseof relief at the storm. I suppose it was relief at being;back in a world that offered surprises which you never entirely summon or control; relief, and a certain adventurous joy. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Rick Blower· Ass't. Night Editor: AI D'Antonio Layout: Bill Brink, Carolina, Ann McCarry, Bob 
Quackenbush Features: J. Robert Baker Sports: Greg Corgan, Vic Dorr, John Fineran Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Typists: Barb Haug, Tom Modglin, Howard 
Halle, and especially John Flanigan Night Controller: (and mechanic) Joe Abell 

--------~~----------------~~-­
Wednesday, March 20, 1974 the observer 
7 
master of the middle ages 
by brian burke 

woodward's tavern: a nostalgic look 
Editor's Note: With this article the Ob­server introduces Uncommon Glimpses, a series desgned to reveal the personalities behind familiar faces at Notre Dame. 
A stroll into the Medieval Institute on the 7th floor of Notre Dame's Memorial Library is a stroll from the 20th to the 12th century. This Institute is the retreat of Astrik Gabriel, the internationally respected medieval historian. 
Professor Gabriel's office is bedecked with medieval block prints, pictures of his friends and great men he admires, Hesburgh, Paul VI, Etienne Gilson, and posters announcing his lectures on anything from the curriculum for lOth century Italian students to the drinking habits of 13th century German scholars. The walls are lined with precious volumes, many printed before Columbus sailed for the New World. The desk is large and well arranged. In the drawer is a letter from another of Gabriel's friends, Jacques Maritan. The set of file cabinets contains the materials for three new books which will join Gabriel's already impressive list of works when he has time to prepare them for publication, after his retirement next year. This is the workshop of a scholar. The visitor receives an overriding impression of history and of order. 
On meeting Astrik Gabriel, one realizes 
how well the office reflects the man. Tne 
stout, silver-haired priest looks every inch 
the scholar. The man exudes authority in a 
\-::--' 
For 25 years there was a saloon on Eddy St. which was Nickie's, Corby's and the Faculty Club all rolled into one for the Notre Dame community. The tavern was known as Woodward's and it was located where Nickie's is today. 
What was it about Woodword's that made it such a popular place with our alumni? Woodword's was a place to discuss Democratic politics and Notre Dame football. It was entertainment, companionship and the unexpected. As one old patron put it: "It was the best run tavern in town!" 
What came to Woodword's? The list is so tremendous that not everyone could be mentioned. When did you go to Wood­word's? The times and reasons for going are almost as numerous as the people who went there. 
The World War II vet who had returned to college frequented Woodword's when he wanted to get away fom his family and or his studies. 
The average student might be seen at Woodword's on a night when an extremely tasteless dinner had been served at school because it was a great place to grab a late night snack 
Senior's went to Woodword's after lights out, opting for some beer and fun over Benediction. Woodword's was also a nice place for couples to go after the Senior Ball. 
The members of the Glee Club were frequent visitors. In return for singing the members were given free food. Song was a great part of the atmosphere in Wood­word's. At any given moment someone might stand up and try to lead achorusof the Fight Song or some popular_ tune. This type of activity was not only accepted but actually encouraged to the point where another old patron referred to the at­mosphere inside the tavern as "being as much fun as a three-ring circus" because you never knew what might happen next. 
If you wanted to talk football, Wood­word's was the place to go. You could rub elbows with the coaching staff who were regulars in the saloon's back room. During the Senior Ball Weekend old pros would return to campus to play in the Old Timer's game,•after an was said and done, way that is intimidating for the uninitiated. His schedule seems to be as meticulously ordered as an Apollo flight plan, yet there is always time built into that schedule for guiding the fledgling medieval scholars about the reading and microfilm rooms in their search for obscure facts. 
Gabriel is a stong believer in preparation. He will tell you that the professor, "qui ascendit cathedram sine Iabore, descendit sine honore.'', which means that a teacher had best prepare his lectures. ( Besides Latin Gabriel can speak to you in French, German, Hungarian, and Italian. Professor Gabriel's manner has been described as imperious. He is a man who will abide no foolishness. Those who know him, however, must see through the testiness and the tirades to the true concern and humanness that lies behind them. 
When Gabriel was honored by the University during last spring's com­mencement exercises, the citation read, in part, "He reminds us that while living our lives forward, we can only understand them backwards." In order to understand who Gabriel is, we must follow his own advice and understand where he has been. 
Gabriel was born in the city of Fun­
fkirchen (Five Churches) in Hungary. By 
the age of twelve, Gabriel's interest in 
Medieval history had already been aroused. 
He would browse about the ornate "Bishop's 
Library" in Funfkirchen studying 14th 
century manuscripts and illustrations. 
Ironically, the lad who was so taken by the 
·,, 
(Sketch by Bob McMahon.) 
classical, ~ the traditional, was sent to a modern, experimental school. The students at these institutions, he expains , were the guinea pigs on whom new approaches to education were tested. 
After he completed his studies at the gymnasium, or high school, Gabriel entered a religious order known as the Canons of Premontre. He was attracted to the Canons because of their intellectual orientation combined with the amount of freedom they allowed individual members. When he had finished his theological training, but before he was ordained, Gabriel attended the University of Budapest, where he received his doctorate in medieval studies. 
The freedom of being in a coeducational university atmosphere before taking any vows was significant, because in this way the Canons made sure that the religious life was right for the novices before they allowed them to make a lasting commitment to it. Upon graduation from Budapest, Canon Gabriel received a schoarship to Ecole des Chartres in E. Des Paris, France. He continued his studies there until 1938. 
Knowing that the winds of war were blowing across Europe, and wanting to improve Franco-Hungarian relations, the Hungarian government decided to establish a "French College" in Budapest. They were looking for a Hungarian scholar of French extraction to serve as the director of this college. Gabriel was chosen. This was only the first of many times in Astrik Gabriel's career that the scholarship of the past and Pte political realities of the present woUld cross paths. 
When Hungary was occupied by the Na1'..; in 1944, Gabriel's French College was Im­mediately suspected as a center for par­tisan activities. The Canon tells the story of how one day Gestapo officers came to arrest him at the college. They asked , "Where is the director?" Speaking fluent German, Gabriel replied, "He just went out and should be back in an hour." The Germans left, and Gabriel fled for his life. He hid in a cave for two months, caring for a young Jewish boy named Kaldor who had lost both parents to the Nazis. During this period Budapest was beseiged by the Russians. Eighty thousand people died in the course of the seige. Remembering this nightmare, Gabriel says, "I was walking on dead people like I'm walking today on Notre Dame grass." 
During the war the Nazis dispersed the Canon's library at the French College. After the Russians moved in, they used the college for their military headquarters, fearing that the old Nazi bases were mined. Therefore, Gabriel found himself with neither a library nor a school. He set to work retrieving books, and m1945 reopened the French College in a Budapest nightclub 
Woodword's was the place they went to remember that day's game as well as to try to recapture the glory of the old grid iron. 
Proprieter, Frank "Bus" Woodword, recalls one day in particular when his customer list was a football fan's dream. 
~ Red Grange, Leon Hart, Paul Horning, the Four Horsemen, Vince Lombardi, Tom Regner, Pete Rozelle, mingled with the customers and talked football. Red Smith, the syndicated sports columnist, and Pat O'Brien, the actor who played the role of Knute Rockne, were also there. 
If anything could surpass the football trade at Woodword's, it was Democratic politics! A small sign always hung 
above the bar bearing the local politicians pet name for the tavern: Tammany Hall. 
"Bus" Woodword was proud of his tavern's political reputation and he delighted in the fact that Woodword's was one of the few places in the state of Indiana where the average person could actually "get down on the floor with the elected representatives" and voice their opinions. 
One reporter for the South Bend Tribune 
by william murphy 
estimated that "99 per cent of all the politicians were always seen coming and going at Woodword's of all the poJiticans in South Bend came to Woodword's." Ed Doran, the head of the Democratic machine, held court on Woodword's on Monday nights. The back room in 
··woodword's was where candidates were 'endorsed and issues decided . · State and national politicians were 
. always seen coming and going at Wood­. word's. Hubert Humphery, Bobby Ken­. nedy, Stuart Symington and Richard Daley were all customers of Woodword's. 
Many old-timers remember, in par­ticular, the night that Woodword and In­diana Governor, Roger Brannigan, got into a heated discussion which finally ~ded comically when the governor told Woodword: "Bus, you run your tavern and let me run the state!" 
Becaue of this political atmosphere, Woodword's served as a meeting place for the townsfolk and the university com­munity. Many people felt that this was the tavern's greatest feature: it was a place for 1he exchange of ideas for what were, anchtill might be, two differnt worlds. 
uncornmon 
glimpses 
that had belonged to the parents of Kalador, the Canon's young Jewish friend. 
After the communists seized power, Gabriel was no longer able to do his work, and he wanted to leave the country. An old classmate from Paris named Rajk, was then the minister of the interior, one of the most powerful positions in a communist state. Rajk, who was later hung in a Stalinist purge, arranged to get a passport for his old classmate, and on April 8, 1947, Easter Sunday, Astrik Gabriel left Hungary. 
In Paris, Etienne Gilson, the famous member of the French Academy, invited Gabriel to come to the Pontifical Institute for Medieval Studies in Toronto as a visiting professor. It was while at Toronto that Gabriel first met Fr. Phelan, director of the new Medieval Institute at Notre Dame. Phelan asked the Canon to join Notre Dame's Institute, and in 1948 he was hired by the University as a full professor. Gabriel recalls that he had some trouble just getting into this country. Immigration officV.s were a bit mystified on how to ha .... 1e a Hungarian with a French passport 
•..)'ing to emigrate from Canada to the United States. 
In November of 1952 Professor Gabriel was named the head of the Medieval In­stitute , which at that time was housed in one small room of the present architecture building. Perhaps Gabriel's greatest ac­complishment in his years at the Institute was recreating Milan's famous Ambrosiana Classical Medieval and Renaissance Library here at Notre Dame by microfilming the precious manuscripts. 
In contrasting his years at Notre Dame with his studies in Europe, Professor Gabriel concludes that teaching medieval history here is more difficult than in Europe since in America the Middle Ages are not only remote in time, but also in place. Unlike a boy in Funkirchen, American students do not grow up with medieval history all around them. The teacher of Americans faces a greater challenge in making this world come alive. 
Astrik Gabriel has accepted that challenge for the last twenty-five years. When he steps down next year he will leave a thriving imposing Medieval Institute as his legacy. Notre Dame will miss the ex­pertise, the scholarship, the devotion of her Master of the Middle Ages. 
Wednesday, March 20, 1974
the observer
8 



Ifyou think Kodak is just pretty pictures,you ought to have yourchest examined. 
When a chest x-ray shows that you have a potential elude convenience for the patient, economy for the hospital, killer like TB or cancer, it's not·a pretty picture. But it's an an even more useful tool for the radiologist-and, most impor­important picture because it can help the doctor detect and tant, reduced radiation exposure. 
Researching and creating better x-ray films is goodcatch the killer in time. 
When doctors are out to catch these potential killers, for our business, which is why we went into them in the first 
they want the sharpest, clearest x-ray films they can get. And place. But it does our society good, too-which isn't a bad 
that's why people at Kodak spend so many hours creating feeling. After all, our business depends on our society-so we 
new and better x-ray film equipment. Already, the results in-care what happens to it. 

Kodak 
More than abusiness. 

Wednesday, March 20, 1974 the observer 
Streakers open exhibition season 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 
Taking their cue from our national pastime of baseball, several Notre Dame students opened an exhibition season of their own on the evening of Thursday, March 7. 
Chanting everything from "Ara, start the streak!" to "Morrissey Hall bares it all"-which they did-­nearly two dozen unclothed un­dergraduates and almost two hundred spectators launched Notre Dame's first venture in the current popular method of at­
tention -getting --streaking. performed while there actually 
ice and snow on the ground. Again 
The Nation according to custom, the streaker 
would usually drink a few ounces 
Streaking, of course, is the of courage before departing on his current darling of the media, race around the quad. 
saviour of stand-up comedians, Halls once took great pride in the and the campus phenomenon whole affair -and · rivalries which, claims Northwestern an­flourished as match races were thopologist Paul Bohannon, staged at many a midnight. Once "makes the world safe for gold­last year a running verbal battle 
fish." Radio stations across the was waged in the "Personals" 
nation are giving away streaker column of the Observer by several kits--usually a ski mask and a pair North Quad streaking powers. of sneakers--to hundreds of 
Each hall claimed to house a B. A. listeners who are, for instance, of the highest degree. "the fifth person to call after the For instance, one ad read, "The : Streaker howls." The National 
Streaker is alive and well and Safety Council has issued on ad­living in B-P." This indeed was the visory on how to streak. The truth, but, tragically, appendicitis March 18 issue of Time Magazine forced him into early retirement. 
devoted two full pages to Streaking has had a proud 
"Streaking, Streaking tradition for centuries. The Everywhere." Newsweek did even "Laughter, the Best Medicine" better-in addition to one-and-ahalf 
feature in the March issue of pages of print it ran "two pages of Reader's Digest documents the color photvs." following: 
Observer lnsir:.ht 
Indisputably, the sport has become a national pastime. In the west, where buffalo once roamed by the hundreds, hundreds of Coloradoans roam around in the buff. Both Illinois' and Georgia's skies have hosted para-streakers. And where many a man has lost his shirt, one young executive ap­peared to have lost much more as he streaked along Wall Street. 
This reporter's favorite tale (or is it tail?) is the one about the Jacksonville State baseball pitcher who had a no-hitter going for him in the fifth inning when a naked baseball fan streaked onto the field to shake hands with the second baseman and the shortstop. Mter the streaker had disappeared over the right field wall, the next batter doubled. 
And although the majority of 
streakers are male, the girls aren't 
all shying away. As a matter of 
fact, at many universities standing 
on the corner watching all the girls 
go by is getting to be a heck of a lot 
more interesting. Even the 
president of Sweet Briar College in 
Virginia will testify to this-just the 
other day he stood and applauded 
as 50 bare-bottomed coeds 
streaked his front lawn. 
Unfortunately , some girl 
watchers are not content to merely 
let the girls streak by and, thus, 
engage in enthusiastic pursuit. 
<Mter all, it is springtime!) At 
Columbia, in fact, the young chick 
perched atop a statue wasn't a 
pigeon at all. Actually, it was a 
nude Barnard girl badly in need of 
rescue from the surrounding male 
onlookers who insisted on pinching 
her to see if she were real. 
Notre Dame 
Of course, streaking is nothing new at Notre Dame, where the sport has developed its own proud tradition. For instance, tradition permits the streaker to wear either shoes or socks, but not both. Preferably, a streak is to be 
"Scholars recently traced the origin of the expression "Hurrah for our side!" It was first said by the crowds lining the streets when Lady Godiva made her famous ride sidesaddle through the streets of Coventry." 
Frank Nitty of Keenan Hall stands firm in his position that Bob Hope's jokes about streaking at Notre Dame on his recent nationally televised special started the sudden nationwide interest anyway. "And we've had it here for years," said Nitty. 
, But, "Alas!", must sigh the 
' purists of the the sport: all dignity and custom has been stripped away from streaking. Now size of streak, distance of streak, duration of streak, and innovation are what counts at colleges all across the land. And Notre Dame is no dif­ferent. Incidentally, the account you are about to read is true, but many of the names have been changed or omitted to protect the indecent. Around the hour of 10 pm on the evening of March 7, a rash of phone calls!aced through the halls on the 
I 
RESERVATIONS
t-
w ND 284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites Student -Faculty
SMC 
ND+SMC Staff 
$ po
THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 
THE HOMECOMING 
Harold Pinter's disturbing, bizarre comedy Nlar. 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 at 8:30pm Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
Male hastily over the receiver, "Mass streak ... tonight...ll o'clock ... South Quad ... be there. GET NAKED!" 
At 11 pm, 30 of the curious had assembled on the South Quad to witness the event. Several had cameras in their hand, and many expressed apprehension. Com­mented Terry Reilly, a Morrissey freshman, "I'm worried about my film being overexposed." Another hoped there would be no "uncover charge" for the spectacle. 
Finally; four young men tore off their clothes at 11 :05 and circled about one-third of the quad. "It was a breeze," said one streaker upon his return. 
One of his companions boasted, "Streaking proves you are in­volved in no cover-up." 
Now the crowd grew restless. They had seen four and they wanted more. Someone yelled "Ara, start the streak!" and the chant was quickly adopted. 
Suddenly a pair of naked men burst from the bushes between Fisher and Pangborn Halls. The crowd roared. Bottle rockets and­or Roman candles shot into the sky from Pangborn's upper floors. The two streakers sped to O'Shaughnessey and back and disappeared. 
At this point, the first female onlookers drew notice. Attempts to interview them proved fruitless; theywere laughing so hard that one of them, blinded by tears of laughter, fell over the wire guarding the lawn. The Observer did learn they were St. Mary's students and one of them was named Maureen. 
Then the action resumed. Six 
streakers from Sorin took the field. 
Mter only 30 yards one grieved, 
"Aww sh-, it's cold!" but all six 
completed the run from the Rock 
to O'Shaughnessey and back 
nonetheless. 
Four of them later identified 
themselves as Prince Porn, Big D, 
Italian Stallion, and Bug. 
By this time, most of the crowd 
had grown delirious . Chris 
Singleton even envisioned· one 
more national· title for old Notre 
Dame. 
"If Notre Dame can be Number 
One in football and basketball," he 
declared, "I see no reason why 
Notre Dame can't reach the top of 
the polls in streaking." 
Others were disgruntled. Joe Runde confided, "I think it's disgusting-unless they find more coed streakers." 
Runde's wish was denied and the crowd melted into the night. But rumors spread that at least a dozen streakers would perform calisthenics in front of BreeD­Phillips at 12: 30•. 
At 12: 20, several girls were waiting on B-P's front porch to see if the rumor would be confirmed. 
Almost immediately, one traditionalist streaked by, ob­viously conforming to all rules of custom. He was to be the only solo streaker of the night. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
TNTEHVIHIS ;;r:m:niiLEil FOR 14EI·:K llF MAI<CI! 2'>, 1"7'• 
• '-ii1'.n-up p•·riod lwy.ins TUt•s., H:tr. \l• 
Int••rvit>\V"s ar.• ror s«>niors ancl ~~r:a<lu.1t1' stucl1•nts. Si~n-up c;ch.•du arro in Room 207, M:~in Bldr.. Int .. rvi••w timPS must h·· si~n.-d fnr i1 Pf'TSOO. Hours :lTP H!OO a.m. IO r):{lO p.m •• Mond.·tv thru Frtdav. Tl Pl.=tc(>m••nl r-1.1nu.1l givo•s add it ionttl infnrmat ion n•ft:lrdin)•. intyt·vi,•w 
procedur£':->. 
MAR .. 25 MON. 
1~\R. 2f~ 
THF.S. 
f'1AR.26/'!7 
Tlf/~.JFP. 
MAlL 77 
WEll. 
HAR.2~ 
Tl!\!HS. 
:·!:\!-'. 2'' FKT. 
Hairstyling ... with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 
KEN'S DEN 
First Floor, 100 Center 
Mishawaka, Indiana 
Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 
SHAWN PHILLIPS 
IN CONCERT 
TON ITE--MARCH 20 8:00pm 
Appearing with 
QUATERMASS 
All seats reserved: $5.50 Tickets will be on sale at the door. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
211 N. Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend 232-6954· 
Farm __!_!.u!_•·:tu Tnsuranc•• -Indiana---n in Al., HA. 
Am(•ri<":tn N<1Ll. Bk. & Tr. Co. of Chic~--B in Pin. 
MRA wit~Fir1.ha<'k~·.rmm_cl_ ~-;: conn•ntrat ion. ~~dft'_ J'!~J'.:.:~. --B in I->wr., Hk t • ~I_i_!:~!-_i_!"r• Ass·. Soc. of II.S.--n in At., ~t-\. r1nnt.l~omf'r\l Ward--r\71 _fiKA. 
Fl•·c!rnni<: ]\;11-l '-:•.><>·l••ms \.orp--1·1'\A \-.'ilh T"ch. nr ~nn-!f'C iJack"Tf1tmd. 
('il" :-::Hinn,11 n:tnl---\11 1\1\.\. !'nnt in••nt;tl ni I C:l1--!~," in <'hE. CPn• ral Foot!s Cnrp--~ 1 in '\n·t, Fin . .,"lA. [{at·z.l Fnf•r. Co--B,~1 inC~;. ~~--B in r\1., BA. 
(';t1•nl Cnrp-!;t.·llitf' lliv--!\ in ~11':, Mf'l. 
~\ml'l~fl'lJ•·r•· Cnunrv-nllin Adult Prohat ion Jlppt--H in Any n.•h:tvnr i a I ..;r i ··nc•·<>. :.Jilsrlrl f.._~--.\11 I',BA. R in Hinl, Ch•·m. 
~~~~-~~~--1 1 in ChE. 
Freshman Mary Reiner chucled, "I am impressed with the spirit of the campus." Her roommate Denise Snyder disagreed, "I am unimpressed." Another your 5 lady, Kathy Grace, stole tt e reporter's pencil so he couldn ·t record whatever she might Sf · between giggles.. 
At the appointed time, a gre uproar was heard in the distanct Leading the charge was a golf ca carrrying an Alumni resider who, clad only in the plaster ca 
(contnued on page 1 
-· 
... 
..... 10 the obse.rver. W~nesdii!Y~ Ma.rch 20, 1974 
British hope for closer U.S. ties 
By JOSEPH w. GRIGG the Common Market. Callaghan, taking a slap at Officials also said that U.S. He said the new Labor 
LONDON (UPI) -In an In its first major foreign France without mention the Secretary of State Henry A. government will start implied slap at France, Bri-policy statement, Foreign nation by name, said: Kissinger will confer on Anglo­renegotiation of Britain's Com­tain's new Labor government Secretary James Callaghan American, European and East­mon Market membership terms made clear Tuesday it wants said Britain will not cooperate "We repudiate the view that West problems with Callaghan "with a genuine attempt to see "the fullest and most intimate in moves for closer integration Europe will emerge out of a March 28-29, and is expected to whether our approach and cooperation" between the Unit-in Western Europe until its process of struggle against meet later with Prime Minister interests can be accommodated 
ed States and Western Europe Common Market membership America." · f 1 ti t0 terms have been renegotiated.
di
as a con tiQn ° c oser _ es , "We do not agree that a . k•d • d • f dEurope which excludes the
Seven 1 nanners ln lC e 
Z'.I:' 
by federal grand jury 
NEWARK (UPI) -Six men\ Fernandez, 18, Ricardo R. 
and a woman charged with kidnaping an 8-year old boy on March 6 for $50,000 ransom were indicted Tuesday by a federal grand jury. 
U.S. Attorney Jonathan L. Goldstein said charges would be dropped against an eighth suspect, Eligio Fernandez, 17, who played a minor role in the case. He was released from jail last Friday without having to post bond. 
Goldstein said the FBI was still searching for the money paid by the father of John Calzadilla of Dix Hills, LongIsland, N.Y. for the boy's release unharmed. 
The seven suspects were named in a three-count indict­ment charging each with kidnaping, conspiracy to kidnap and conspiracy to use a telephone to obtain a ransom. They are Roberto Martinez, 37, 
and Jose Hernandez, 17, both of i West New York, N.J.; Jorge i Martinez, 27, Norberto M.. 
By SCOTT LATHAM 
NEW YORK (UPI) A major Mafia chieftain, named by an underworld informant as the man who ordered the assassination of mobster Joseph "Crazy Joe" Gallo, turned himself in to police at a local radio station Wednesday after eluding authorities for nearly two years. 
Joseph Yacovelli, 46, reputed to be acting head of the Joseph Colombo crime family, was arraigned as a material witness in the Gallo case before Manhattan Criminal Court Judge Jawn Sandifer and ordered to appear at the i Manhattan District Attorney's Office March 8 for questioning. 
The flamboyant Gallo, whose exploits are the basis of a current movie, "Crazy Joe," was gunned down on April 7, 1972, as he celebrated his 43rd birthday at Umberto's Clam House in Manhattan's Little Italy. 
The killing climaxed a long­standing feud between the Gallo clan and the crime family of Mafia chieftain Joseph A. Colombo Sr. 
Yacovelli was named as the man who ordered the Gallo killing by Joseph Luparelli, an Tuero, 18, and Wilfredo At­varez, 18, all of Union City, N.J.; and Maria Margaret Marida, 16, Jersey City. 
Norberto Fernandez is a 
· brother of Eligio. Roberto and i 
Jorge Martinez, also brothers, I are related to the Calzadilla ID 
boy'~ father,_ Michael, by al prev1ous marr1age. All face life imprisonment, if convicted. They are held in more than $1 million total bail. 
According to the indictment, the seven suspects began' planning the kidnap on March 5. 
The boy was abducted as he walked home from school near his home. The FBI said he was taken to a rooming house in Union City and held in a $23-a week room rented by Eligio Fernandez. 
After the ransom was paid, the boy was let go March r near a restaurant in Secaucus. 
The boy's father is a tire firm sales executive. 
Nixon warns allies 
HOUSTON <UPI) --' Presi­dent Nixon warned the western European allies tuesday night that they are contributing to "a new sense of isolation" in the United States and risking their own defense readiness b) refusing to cooperate in the political and ·economic fields. 
..........­
He said their actions, howe­ver, would not cause him to embrace proposals by Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mans­field of Montana and others for a major cutback in the 300 thousand U.S. servicemen now in Europe to guard against possible aggression. 
fullest and most intimate 
cooperation with the United 
States is a desirable objective." 
Britain's ambassadors to Europe were called home today to be briefed by Callaghan on the new policy to renegotiate her terms of market member­ship, officials announced. 
SMC Faculty Assembly praises 
r Henry's 30 1nonths of service
• 
(continued from page I) 
con­
tinuing in research and par­
ticipating in community 
development," he explained. 
Prior to his position at SMC, Henry served as director of the Center for the Study of Local Government at St. John's University, Minnesota. He took a three "year leave of absence to come to South Bend. 
"It's been a very rich two-and­half-years at St. Mary's. I have met many wonderful people. I think the faculty and student body at St. Mary's are the greatest, and I will miss them wherever I go," Henry emphasized. 
Regarding the future of• the college, Henry did not forsee any major financial problems for the immediate future. "The future of St. Mary's as a quality institution depends on the strength. and creativity and courage of the next president. No outstanding college has been able to move without that kind of leadership," he said. 
The Faculty Assembly of St. Mary's convened. on Tuesday, March 12, and unarumously passed a resolution expressing "its gratitude for the service of Ed-
Mafia chieftain surrenders 
underworld figure who surren­dered to authorities in May, 1972, and admitted his own participation in the killing. Luparelli 's allegation spurred an intensive police search for Yacovelli. 
Assistant D. A. Robert Tannenbaum said Yacovelli "possesses material evidence vital to the investigation" being conducted by the grand jury in the Gallo case. The grand jury has already indicted seven others in the case. 
Sandifer released Yacovelli in the custody of his lawyer, David M. Markowitz, until $25,000 bail could be posted. The relatively low bail appar­ently was agreed to by the 1 DA's office as part of the deal for Yacovelli's surrender. 
FBI agents, who were waiting in the courtroom, then arrested Yacovelli on charges of con­spiracy and interstate flight to avoid prosecution in connection with a 1970 New Jersey murder case. 
He was arraigned in Brooklyn Federal Court and released on $25,000 personal bond. 
Yacovelli surrendered at mid­morning to police at WINS Radio's offices, at 90 Park Ave. 
Markowitz opened negotia­tions for the surrender with WINS newsman Paul Sherman more than a year ago, the station said. Sherman· said an intermediary was chosen be­cause there was "some concern over whether it would go down in the record as a surrender or a capture." 
FLY ROUND TRIP JFK TO ATHENS WITH NOTRE DAME ALUMNI 
Complimentary meals and beverages aloft 
May 24-June 3 
Includes U.S. Departure Tax--Call 283-7267 
1 1
1 1
·~ ·-~ ·' ·" • • 't Y oJ ..,. "· • ... '" " ...... 't·• t '·l· ~ •t•t•c 11_f.r•r•t 1:'( 1t "r',·' '· 'r'., 1. 'I 
·""~"9 ".,~,."f,;\",\'.~..• • \"',~: .~ ~.\ ~. ~,' •,/·,~,>r._.'i-..,iT•..,<r•..•'T,:"i-,,,-r.,-r,,-r.,,-r.•,'1',,if,,,f.!.,,f.!.,,f.!.,,"f,,,tt~.~~•.'f... .,..~.."';."",.~,.,;...-------------..J 
Harold Wilson. 
Kissinger will stop over in London on his return from talks i in Moscow with Kremlin leaders starting March 25. 
Callaghan spoke in Par­liament's first foreign policy debate since the Feb. 28 general election brought ·in a minority Labor Party govern­
ment. 
to those of other members'. 
"We shall attempt to achieve our objectives by a series of parallel and coordinated negotiations," he said. "We shall not seek confrontation." 
But he warned; "We are not able to carry forward further processes of integration which could prejudge the outcome of the negotiations." 
ward L. Henry as President of the College, its sincere regret at his imminent departure from the Presidency, and its best wishes for him in his future endeavors." The Assembly is the official· 
parliamentary organization of the faculty of SMC. 
While at St. John's, Henry served as the frst chairman of the department of government, building it to the second largest 
department in the university From 1964 to 1970, he served as mayor of St. Cloud, Minnesota. Henry also has two books in print, Metropolis , 1968 and Micropolis in Transitition. 
Henry received his B.A. degree from St. John's University, M.A., M.B.A., and PH.D. in political science from the University of Chicago.$ 
Cultural Arts Commission presents 
"Billy Jack" 
c 
A 
M p 
u 
s 
v 
I 
E 
w 
Wednesday and Thursday 
March 20th and 21 sf 
at 8 and 10 pm 
in the Engineering Aud. 
NOW RENTING 
one and two bedroom furnished apartments 
Featuring: 
+ 
SWIMMING POOL 

+ 
COMMUNITY BUILDING 

+ 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 

+ 
REFRIGERATOR 

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT 

+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south bend· 
... 

.... ' "' .... \ \. 
Wednesday~ 'March;2o; l974' ' the observer 
Streakers repelled by women 
'Bare brigade· battles Badin 
Campy puts out ND lire power 
(continued from page 9) 
which encased his leg, proclaimed himself to be "the world's first automated streaker." 
To his behind rushed an army of about two hundred clothed thrillseekers captained by 13 of­ficers clothed in their birthday suits. When they charged B-P the girls on the porch ran, shrieking, into the building. 
Most of the women were speechless but one cried bravely, "I wish we had some water balloons." 
The naked brigade then turned its assault on Farley. As an ex­cited crowd chanted, "Here come the Irish!" the baker's dozen rushed the door. But the hastily drawn-up defense held. 
Thus, they had to settle for performing some borrowed Roekette dance routines, while their 200 admirers accompanied 
(continued from page IZ) 
Particularly, the ball wouldn't fall for Adrian Dantley, ND's solid freshman forward. Dantley carried double flgUI'e scoring and rebounding averages into the clash with Mchigan, but was limited to 
two  points  and  six  rebounds  
against the Wolves.  
"I  felt  heavy,"  he  whispered  

later. "I felt like I couldn't do anything. I was worried about the score, but I felt we could come back. It was just one of those things, I guess. The ball just wouldn't fall for us." 
But it was left for freshman guard Dice Martin to sum up the stinging defeat and to look ahead to the season's last game, a Saturday consolation clash with the Van­derbilt Commodores. He did both well. 
"We were taking good shots tonight," he said, "but the ball wasn't dropping. We kept our poise tonight, though, and I think that's what we'll do on Saturday. Everyone knows it's the last game, and because of that, I think everyone wll want to go out and 
Irish repel Fly and mates 
(continued from page 12) 
streak, was just as pleased with the afternoon's showing. 
"This was our best game since last Monday night (the date of the Dayton loss), he smiled. "But we think we learned something against Dayton, and we made adjustments today for the things we learned against them. 
"I though we had a superb defensive effort today," he con­tinued. "Gary Novak did a good job on the Fly, and we felt that if we made them shoot from far enough outside, they'd cool off eventually. " The Governors did cool off after Williams sunk the game's first shot-a 10-footer which came but five seconds after the opening tip. They shot only 35 per cent from the field, while the Irish hummed along at a 60 per cent pace. 
And if Phelps wasn't surprised 
by Notre Dame's defensive effort, 
then neither was he .surprised by 
Gary Brokaw's slick offensive 
show. 
"Broke played very well," un­
derstated Digger. "We figured 
beforehand that our inside game 
w~~4 .~. a c::~~ qf, !!99«;e.rlt. \0.. •.• , , , . , s.•, ...;• ,. .• ,• ,. ,• •• .·., , ., , .• , • . . , .
them.,;ofti'eltwe'bacttoptsome'' •' •-"···"·-~-.·."•"'•.,•.\•.,:•,· ...·,•"'· ..:~·", "'· ... ·,
L-~~~~------------------------__J 
them with a chorus of the Victory March. 
A half dozen girls watching from a first floor window in Farley :1greed they should do it more often. 
Then the army marched again­double time as the temperature was about forty degrees. They repeated their dance routing in front of Walsh Hall but, getting little respons~, soon left. 
Reaching the bookstore parking lot, the streakers engaged in a friendly game of basketball. Tip­off time was 12:45. Skins vs. Skins, of course. 
"Badin!" became the new battle 
cry and by 12:55 the attack was on. After the customary dance routine, the attackers sought entrance at every door, but each time the defenders held sway. One streaker even "skinnied" up a 
play their best. Just because we spread to 31-16 with 10 minutes left lost tonight, don't think we're in the first half, and had the going to give Saturday's game cushion up to 20 points, 60-40, just away." moments before intermission. 
The Irish never came close to During the second half, ND's giving Saturday's game away. In dominance was even more fact, they never even came close to pronounced. The Irish led the SEC being threatened in Saturday's winners by 34, 93-59, with 10:20 game. Notre Dame jumped out to left to play, and eventually coasted an early 16-6 lead, widened the home tn a 30-ooint victory, 118-88. 
Shawn Philips to play at Morris ~ivic tonight 
Shawn Phillips, popular acoustics and electric singer, will 
be featured at the Morris Civic 
Auditorium tonight in a ·concert;
with the "Quartermass" at 8:00 
p.m. All tickets are reserved at $5.00.
Phillips writes music with a social message. His songs stress the importance of our environment and warn of the dangers of tis abuse. Phillips believes that the words in his songs are important, although he uses polysyllabic words which tend to turn people 
point production out of our guards. The win over Austin Peay And we did. we controlled the assured the Irish of at least two "t t t"m " 
tempo of the game, and we beat more ournamen I ~ ap­their defenses. pearances..Notre Dame will play "When you concentrate on Shu," . Thu~sday m. Tuscaloosa, !Ja., 
he said, "the other guys are going to hurt you., Brokaw agreed. "I don't think · anybody can double-team us inside and beat us," he said. "And after · what happened last Monday night at Dayton, 1 think we were even more psyched for this one. 
"Besides, it's tournament time · The early game on Saturday will now-and we all know that if we be a 1 p.m. consolation matchup lose once, we're done." between the two losers. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED  LOST AND FOUND  
Driving East to Youngstown, leevlng thurs. after noon and returning Mon. Mar. 26. Call Rick at 233-3945.  Lost small silver ring with red star apphire. Call 1804.  
Experienced typist will do term papers, manusc rlpts, etc. call 233·5332.  
Need ride to st. Louis, Mo. Mar. 22. Call 680<4.  

column to reach the second floor 
porch on Badin's east side. But 
again, entry was denied. 
Now the gloves were off as well ·as eveything else. A loose screen 
was torn from its holdings and the 
unlocked window behind it opened 
wide. Moments later, several 
streakers found themselves in the 
Badin laundry room. 
What repelled this invasion is 
unknown. Let's just say that their 
retreat was about three times as 
hasty as their assault. 
Finally, two security guards 
stationed themselves between the 
crowd and Badin's east door. The 
streakers dressed quickly and 
departed. 
The throng remained for a few 
minutes, and most student reac­
tions were favorable. Jim Gor­
man, a freshman from Fort 
Washington, decided "streaking 
should be sanctioned by the 
NCAA" and lamented that if he 
a11;a~st the wmne~ of the ~diana­M1ch1gan playoff m the BJg Ten. T~en, at 3 p.m. on Sa~urday, the wmner of that gam~ will ~eet the Marquette-Va':'derbllt wmner to off· 
sel~t  the  M1dea~tern  r~prese~­ 
tative  to  the  national  fmals  m  
Greensboro.  

He has published five albums: 
"Contribution," "Second Con­
tribution," "Collaboration," · "Faces," and "Bright White." His 
albums have received critical . th gh h . t h"
prals~~ _ou e reJec s IS . cl~ss1f1cation as a cult hero who falls .to. reach to the ~asses. 
P~llllps ~.orked .With Donova~ durmg the Sunshm~ Superman era. . Another ?f his other ac­complishments mcl':ldes winning the Tokyo Grand Pr1x. 
had not been battling the flu he would have joined in the fun. 
Official Reaction 
Official reaction proved hard to 
come by yesterday as the 
university resumed the spring ·semester. 
Arthur Pears, Director of 
Campus Security, had no com­
ments to make and recommended 
a call to the Dean of Students 
Office. 
Unfortunately, Dean Macheca 
was tied up in conferences all 
afternoon and could not be reached 
for comment. 
On the night of the incident, one 
priest was overheard remarking to 
one streaker in the process of 
putting his clothes back on, "I bet 
your mother would be really proud 
of you, wouldn't she, son?" 
One rector of a female dorm was 
The triumph was Notre Dame's 26th of the season against three losses, and was insured by the same players who'd been so ef­fectively defensed two nights before. Adrian Dantley finished with 29 points and 10 rebounds, Gary Brokaw with 20 points, and Gary Novak with 16. John Shumate led all scorers with 30 points, while forward Jeff Fosnes paced the Commodores with 20. 
"We were disappointed with our finally reached. Sr. Karen Ann Paul of Badin responded, "Part of it was really hamrless," she said, "and provided for some raised eyebrows and laughter. But some of it was pretty gross and I'd have to say it offended me." 
Sr. Karen indicated that several of the residents of Badin shared her sentiments. She further noted one incident which really caused displeasure. She related how one girl was terrified because she tried to break through the crowd to reach the door she was grabbed and pulled back. "She was scared because she didn't know what they were going to do to her," she said. 
Coed Streakers 
The grapevine said the next morning that three women streaked the North Quad at 2 am. Darn! I missed it. 
loss to Michigan," said Irish coach Digger Phelps, "and our kids wanted to end up the season by showing the people that we could play, by showing them that we were for real." 
"This kind of game is the sort of 
game we've been having all year. 
Brokaw, Clay, Dantley-this is the 
way they've been playing all year; 
"Today wewere just making the 
shots." 
256-0111 
c 
A 
M p 
u 
s 
v 
I E 
w 
, call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 ea~t edison road, south bend· 
NOTRE DAME BAND POPS CONCERT 
O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's College March 21 8:15pm 
Admission FREE 
NOW RENTING 
one and two bedroom furnished apartments 
Featuring: 
+ 
SWIMMING POOL 

+ 
COMMUNITY BUILDING 

+ 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 

+ 
REFRIGERATOR 

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT 

+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND " 

----------------------------------~------------~----~----------------~------~~ 
Wednesday, March 20, 1974
the observer 
Michigan ends Irish titie hopes 
byVicDorr 
6-8, 215-pound wing-man who put Sports Editor the stinger into the Irish. The Pontiac, Mich., native tallied 36 TUSCALOOSA, Ala.-Coach points and pulled down 18 Johnny Orr and his Michigan rebounds, and finished in a virtual Wolverines likely weren't sur-dead heat with Shumate for in­prised at all. dividual honors. Shu notched 34 
It wasn't the first time op­points and grabbed 17 rebounds, portunity had knocked for them and while both big men did their during the 1973-74 basketball clutch scoring late in the game, it season, and it wasn't the first time was Russell's points which made they'd responded, but when the the difference. Wolverines had finished Specifically, it was his final two dismantling Notre Dame's NCAA points of the evening which sealed title hopes last Thursday evening ND's fate. The Wolverine lead was in the Mideast Regional 70-65 with 1:20 left when little Joey semifinals, the ease and aplomb Johnson hit the front end of a bonus with which they'd put together foul situation to give his club a six their 77-68 upset opened more than point spread. Johnson missed his a few eyes in the University of second shot, but the rebound Alabama's Memorial Coliseum. caromed far ou~ beyond the 
But the eyes opened didn't perimeter, and Russell, 22 feet belong to the Michigan coaches or away from the basket;grabbed the players, that's for sure. They loose ball and tossed it back beloned instead to Notre Dame. through the hoop for the two­And those Irish Eyes, once they pointer which made it 73-65. had been opened, saw precious After that, the final 80 seconds little to smile about. were academic. 
They saw the Wolverines, red­"We can't rely just on hot after crucial Big Ten victories Shumate," sighed Phelps. "When over Michigan State and Indiana, the defense sags, we have to score erase an early Irish lead and from outside, and we weren't doing streak to a 28-8 cushion just 13 that tonight. Gary Brokaw, I think, minutes into the game. They saw went four-for-16, and we just can't Michigan match Notre Dame's play when Broke goes four-for-16. defense with a tough, tenacious They played aggressively on men-to-man of its own, and they defense, but our shots just weren't saw the Irish unable to solve that going in-and I don't know why." defense until the waning moments "They played aggressive
Irish coach Digger Phelps spurs his squ.d to greater heights during this time-out at Terre Haute. 
of the first half. basketball and controlled the
Notre Dame was later shocked by Mlchipn In Alabama.
But then, as the third-ranked tempo of the game," said 
Irish tetered on the brink of a first­Russell scored twice for the footer from the top of the lane tied made the adjustments they needed Shumate. "Michigan played well, half blowout, the not-quite­Wolves during the final 90 seconds the game for the last time with 8: 24 to make. We had them down, but we didn't play up to our capacity crowd saw Wolverine of the half, but two free throws left, and the talented Michgan we couldn't put the stinger into capabilities, and that was the center C. J. Kupec go to the bench by Shumate and a short jumper by forward, 20 seconds later, whirled them." story. We just couldn't get the ball with 5:32 left in the half. And as Clay cut it to five again, 34-29, at down the lane for the bucket which That the Irish couldn't. Instead, to fall." soon as Kupec left the floor, the intermission. · gave the Wolves the lead for good. it was Campy Russell, Michigan's (continued on page 11)Irish began to fight back. But the begnning of the second "I thought Michigan played very · 
Tight, jittery, and shooting badly half went much the same as the well," said ND's Digger Phelps,during the game'sfirst 14 minutes, beginning of the first. The Irish subdued, after the game. "They'reND found the range during the came out cold, and the Wolveriues well-coached, well-organized, and closing moments of the first half came out collected. They scored they hit the boards well. Their kids and rallied behind All-American when they had to, and kept ND at had confidence that they could center John Shumate to shred the bay until the 10:00 mark of the beat us, and they beat us. They 
OBSERVER.
Michigan advantage. period, when twin two-pointers by came out with the intensity to put
A three-point play by Shumate, Shumate tied the game at 52. us into a hole early, and when that shor-range buckets by Dwight Clay A pair of squirming lay-ins by happens there'snota whole lot you and Adrian Dantley, and two bank Gary Novak gave Notre Dame two-can do. 
SPORTS
sbots by Shu sliced the lead to 3()-point leads twice during the next "We missed a lot of shots, and we 21, and then Bill Paterno canned a two minutes, but the Irish were missed a lot inside, but still we 14-foter and Shumate muscled in a unable to hold their slender ad-came back there in the second half. lay-up to make it 30-25. Campy vantage. Campy Russell's 25-They called time, though, and 
Irish cagers shoo Fly with some very timely 'Magic' 
byVicDorr 18-footer of his own to give the Irish their tO-point Sports Editor bulge. The Governors ptilled back to within six shortly 
TERRE HAUTE-What a game of one-on-one after their time-out, and still trailed by six with nine they could have had: Austin Peay's James minutes remaining until intermission. A pair of Williams and Notre Dame's Gary Brokaw. "Fly" jump shots by Williams, Peay's dangerous and "Mr. Magic." sophomore backcourt ace, made it 25-19, but the 
Those two unveiled a pair of hot scoring hands in Irish then ripped off eight unanswered points and Saturday's NCAA Mideast Regional quarterfinals­were never threatened again. Williams bombing in 26 points for the Governors Short-range buckets by Brokaw and John and Brokaw netting 25 for the Irish-and, had the Shumate, and tO-footers by Novak and Adrian two been pitted only against each other, the ensuing Dantley up~ the count to 33-19, and only Williams • fireworks would have delighted the capacity crowd hot shooting kept things from getting completely out at Indiana State's Holman Arena quite a bit more of hand before the end of the half. than the five-on-five matchup did. The Irish led by 20 at intermission, 54-34, but 
But there was no such showdown, and it was watchedinthe closing moments of theperiodas "Fly" Brokaw who kept the individual sparks from flying scored six of his team's last eight points-all from too fast and too furious. Because ND's slender the 20-foot range. In the second half, though, the junior guard was in no mood to play one-on-one. He Irish had things all their way. Novak, who scored 12 brought several friends to Saturday's first-round points for ND, spearheaded a sticky man-to-man game-friends by the names of Shumate, Dantley, defense by pestering Williams every time he Novak, and Clay-and those friends added 22, 22, 12 handled the ball. and eight points to the Irish effort as ND pummelled And at the other end of the floor, the Irish took Austin Peay, 108-66, to begin its quest for the NCAA advantage of Austin Peay's preoccupation with basketball championship. Shumate and Dantley (who still collected 44 points 
The Irish took command right from the start, and 20 rebounds between them), and bedeviled the jumping into a 16-6 lead before Governor coach Governors with the torrid shooting of Brokaw and Lake Kelly halted play with a time-out just six Clay. minutes into the contest. The two teams were tied "They're the best team we've played," marvelled at six with 17minutesleft in the half, but then Gary Governor coach Lake Kelly, "anytime, anywhere, Novak eased in to the lane for a five-footer, and the any season. Notre Dame is much stronger than any Irish had the lead for good. team in the mid-east regional a year ago. 
After Novak's bucket, Brokaw gave the Ohio "What would it take to beat them? Oh, it would Valley winners a taste of things to come. The 6-4 take something like UCLA." junior from New Brunswick, N.J.. · scored a And Irish coach Digger Phelps, whose club en­
Gary Brokaw shows Fly Williams and two other Austin Peay players 
lay-in, an 18-foot jumper, and a to-foot jumper in tered the game in possession of a one-game losing some of his magic during first-round NCAA action. Brokaw matched quicksuccessionand then Dwight Clay pitched in an (continued on page 11) 
-~ ' his uniform number In points against the Governors. 






