
On The Inside 
Civil Rights 
.•• page 3 
An Tostal 
.•• page 8 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 96 
Friday, March 22, 1974 

Calls lor universal values 
Shriver discusses civil rights 

Funds reduced to $250,000 
Trustees endorse LaFortune renovation 
by Terry Keeney are the addition of dining room adjacent to 
have closed." Because of the present Faccenda explained,"Because no donor 
News Editor "The Huddle," redecoration of the first 
lack of an outside donor, funds to begin the is on the horizon, the entire 
floor lounge area, and renovation of such 
renovation must be provided by the remodeling project cannot be approached 
The Executive Committee of the student offices as Student Government and 
University. at this time." 
University Board of Trustees has endorsed the Observer. In addition, WSND will be the concept of renovation of LaFortune considered in the LaFortune plans. IUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIHIIIIIIIIIIIUIIBUIIIIIUIIJ......-mt Student Center as proposed by the student "These are the areas everybody agreesLaFortune Renovation Committee. This need doing," Faccenda observed. " action, if approved by the full Board at its "These seem to be the first things to be May meeting, could lead to a start of attacked." renovation by this summer. Faccenda stressed the priority placedIn their meeting last week in Florida, the upon adding dining facilities. "The whole Committee turned down plans by Ellerbe plan hangs on being able to create ad­Architects to renovate the entire student ditional dining areas. That would center at a cost of about $850,000. Instead · include making the front lounge area more the executive committee will recommend usable," he stated. to the Trustees at.their May meeting that Wilson will be responsible for getting$250,000 be set aside to begin renovation in estimates from prospective contractors on Preparations being made for the .. areas most critically needed. completing these high priority projects. If Muscular Dystrophy Dance 0 · "The committee felt that $850,000 was Wilson can arrange for some renovation at Marathon which begins tonight. more money than could be afforded at this the $250,000 spending ceiling, Faccenda Extra events will take place and 
time," said Philip Faccenda, vice­predicts that the Trustees will approve the several bands are to be featured. president for Student Affairs. He further . proposal and work could begin im-See related story on page 15. (Staffexplained that the executive committee mediately. photo by Zenon Bidinski) 
decided not to go ahead with the complete "It is my opinion that if the plansEllerbe plan, not knowing whether the e prove effective and get off to a good start,renovated center would be used by the Trustees will say 'Yes. Go ahead.',"
students. 
he said. Faccenda emphasized that the decision Faccenda is confident that this action by 
as to what areas of LaFortune are to be 
the committee will lead to further 
renovated first will rest with Fr. Jerome renovation of LaFortune. He noted that Wilson, vice-president for business affairs. the goal in renovating is to provide the 
"Fr.Wilson will prepare a plan as to how students with "a place to meet and much renovation could be done with that visit." money ($250,000( and present it to the May 
Trustees meeting for final approval," ' "We're shooting for a 24-hour facility," Faccenda explained. he said. "We're shooting for a place where Among the projects Wilson will consider you can get a snack after the dining halls 
by Tom Brennan Staff Reporter 

The Honorable Sargent Shriver addressed the University's Third Annual Civil Rights Lectures on the role of executive leadership in achieving civil rights progress and the furthering of basic human rights Thursday. 
Shriver opened by expressing his gratitude for being able to participate in this year's civil rights lecture and told of the burden that faces him in upholding the quality set by previous lecturers. 
He mentioned former Chief Justice Earl Warren, who spoke in 1972 on the role of the judiciary. Shriver made further reference to the great place he occupies in the Civil Rights Movement. Warren ruled on. the Brown decision which outlawed segregation in the schools. 
Establish foundations first 

Shriver feels that the key to civil rights and human rights lie in the attainment of universal values and total honesty. In trying to connect human rights in­ternationally and domestically, Shriver stated that we must act for civil rights at home if we expect human rights abroad, alluding to the Soviet treatment of Alexander Solzhenitsyn. 
Projecting possible alternatives for the future, Shriver emphasized the need for the establishment of philosophical and moral foundations before deciding­on a definite course of action. Shriver told how the formation of a moral foundation for the operation of the Peach Corps led to its great acceptance despite views of experts who felt it would be a disaster. 
"Ignorance was the greatest asset we had in Washington," said Shriver of himself and the other organizers of the Peace Corps. 
He then proceeded to tell of the assigning of Jewish vclunteers to Arab countries, Protestants to South America, and the presence of women in top positions in the organization. These assignments were handled Quite capably and demonstrated that the Peace Corps embodied all the characteristics that it sought -to further in the area of human rights. 
When informed by reputable sources that the Arab nations would not permit Jewish volunteers to work in their countries, Shriver retorted somewhat naively that the Peace Corps wouldn't send anyone then. The next day his comment was front page news on the New York Times. 
A month later, while visiting Golda Meir, Shriver told her of the young Jewish couple who were sharing a split-level home in Egypt with an Egyptian family. She retorted that she would have to see it to believe it. "You'd better take my word for it because they'd never let you in the country," Shriver quipped. 
Commenting on how he landed the job, Shriver recounted that since the Peace Corps was considered to be a risky venture, President Kennedy felt it would be easier to fire a relative instaead of a political friend if need be. 
While he was the director of the Office of Economic Opportunity from 1964-68 under President Lyndon Johnson, he faced the challenge of conducting what was to become· known as the War on Poverty. Given oi'er $500 million in federal funds, he set out to for­mulate a battle plan. Project Head Start began to provide meals and language training for pre-school youngsters. 
What projects such as these gave to the un­derprivileged was a human chance, said Shriver. Civil rights and human rights are based on something more profound than education, race, or background; what is need, according to Shriver, is the adoption of a philosophy whereby each individual in society establishes his own standard for evaluating his inter­personal relationships. 
Shriver noted that it is often difficult to judge who will succeed by judging intelligence tests or school records. He threw a curve at Fr. James Burtchaell by questiong him on whether he had ever misjudged someone's chances of success in the course of his schooling on the basis of intelligence or classroom appearance. Burtchaell was rendered speechless by the question. but he was excused. 

Sargent Shriver in his speech on Civil Rights, expressed the need for universal values and total honesty. He stressed the requirements of forming a good moral foundation before acting, relating that to his former job in the Peace Corps. (Staff photo by Zenon Bidinski) 
In conclusion, Shriver felt that in the next ten to fifteen years we would be witnesses to forces that would free human dignity from the shackles of bureaucracy, drugs and oppression. This would materialize in an international body of opinion which would have civil and human rights as its focal point. 


r-------~~~----~------------------..-----------~---------~---------.------------------------------­
l ·· · ··the.. obseiver· · · · · · · · · Friday, March 22, 1974 
warld 


briefs 

WASHINGTON (UPI}-The U.S. Court of Appeals ruled Thur­sday that the House Judiciary Committee must receive a secret grand jury report on President Nixon's handling of the Watergate scandal. It dealyed execution of its order until 5 p.m. for appeal to the Surpeme Court. 
TEL AVIV (UPI)-An astronomer said Thursday he discovered water in the form of ice on the comet Kohoutek in observations made in January, positively identifying the existence of the substance for the first time and proving a 23-year-old theory. 
MANILA (UPI)-The Deportation Board trial of The Rev. Ed­ward Gerlock, an American Roman Catholic missionary accused of subversion by the martial law government, was completed Thursday and chairman Edmundo Reyes said he would hand down a decision within 20 days. 
an campus taday 

9 a.m.-civil rights ledure, "current issues in desegratlon and equal education opportunity" by panelists atty. jose cabranes, hon. richard hatcher, atty. david klrp, atty. ruby martin, atty. vllma 
martinez, dr. gary orfleld, hon., j. stanley pottlnger, atty. herman 
slllas, cce 10 a.m.--seminar, w.a. meeks, library lounge 
10:45 a.m.-civil rights, "equal education: approaches", panel 
discussion, cce 1:-40 p.m.-civil rights, workshops, cce3:25 p.m.-ledure ,"energy analysis of the yvon-born-green equation" by william 
lincoln, ce dept., nsh 269 

3:30 p.m.-civil rights lecture, "the role of executive leadership" 
by hon. sargent shriver, cce -4:30 p.m.-reilly lecture, "carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of naturally occuring substances" by prof. ernest wenkert, 123 nsh 
-4:30 p.m.-colloquium, "normal spectral approximation" by prof. p.r. halmos, spon. by math dept., 226 computing center 
6:30 p.m.-film, "major barbara" spon. by humanistics studies 
dept., carroll hall 7 p.m.-liturgy, byzantine lenten liturgy (byzantine rite), holy cross hall 
7, 9:30 p.m.-film, "cabaret" spon. by social comm., eng. aud. $1.00 . 7:30 p.m.-travelogue "the face of sweden" with gene goetz spon. by lion s club, o'laughlin aud. 
7:30 p.m.-·-lecture, "african black racial experience" by prof. aleck, lib. lounge 8 p.m.--duplicate bridge, everyone welcome, university club 
8:45 p.m.--dedication , center for civil rights reading room adress by hon. arthur goldberg, cce 12 noon-S p.m.-workshop, senior comprehensives. nancy parker, maria piacquad, cathy schnell, and nancy pauly. ceramics, photography and painting, moreau gallery 12-5 p.m.--art exhibit, photo gallery, 3-d designs by linda mckenzie, moreau gallery 12-9 p.m.--art exhibit, paintings by chris knecht, upper moreau gallery 12-9 p.m.--art exhibit photo silk screens by anita lowe, hammes gallery 9-1 a.m.-smc coffeehouse, bill hlllstrom, bob peteke, rick walters and bob thomas, adrian coffin, charley schreck and tom stella 
saturday, march 23, 197-4 
9-12 am, workshop, african art workshop, spon. by black studies program, o'shag 
8:15 p.m.-student recital, alicia purcell, soprano, spon. by 
music dept., little theater sunday, march 2-4, 197-4 

1:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.-rome day, slides, sketches, and projects by architecture students, rome program 1972-73, gallery ar­chitecture building 2-2:30 p.m. & 3:30 --4 p.m.--slide tours northern italy (florence, venice), gallery arch. bid 2:45-3:15 p.m. & -4:15--4:45 p.m.--slide tours, southern Italy (sicily ... ), gallery arch. bid. 2:30-3 p.m., 3:15-3:45 p.m., & -4--4:30 p.m., slide tours, rome and vicinity, gallery arch bid. -4:30-5:30 p.m., fiesta!, gallery arch bid. . 6-8 p.m.--art exhibit, "photos, fibers, forms" by mary a·nn zdlnak, susan friedman, and terri lonler , moreau gallery 
-4-6 p.m.--art exhibit, ceramics-pat clay, photos-suzanne perrin, hammes gallery 6-8 p.m.--art exhibit, paintings by tracy funke, upper moreau gallery 6-8 p.m.-photography, nancy schafer, photo gallery 
8 p.m.-selected readings, "three ages of walt whitman" by john fields., little theater, moreau hall $1.00 
8 p.m.-lecture "three ages of walt whitman" by john fields. little theater, moreau hall $1.00 8 p.m. lecture "influence of the viennese theater on the music of haydn and mozart" by prof. eva badura-skoda, u. of wisconsin. spon by music dept., library lounge 
8 p.m.-slides, film and lecture, "psychosomatic medicine: body, mind, and emotions," by fr. morton kelsey,library aud. 



Mexico 
by Mike Donovan Staff Reporter 

Despite rumors to the contrary, the Sophomore Year Abroad Program in Mexico City is still very much alive for next year, according to Fr. Laurence Broestl, director of the Foreign Studies Programs. 
Fifteen students have already expressed interest in the program which is centered at Anahuac University, a small school of about 1500 students located in the western suburbs of Mexico City. The program which was originally based in Cali, Colombia, was moved to Mexico four years ago. 
Any incoming Notre Dame freshman is eligible to become a candidate for one of the foreign study programs. It is recom­mended but not required that a candidate have studied the native language in high school. 
As freshmen the students are placed in special sections of the foreign language, where they receive intensified preparation plus special group orientation. 
During the second semester, a 
committee of administrative of­
ficers and faculty members review 
the performance of each candiate 
and select those who show promise 
of profiting most from the year 
abroad. The selection is made on 
the basis of the student's 
proficiency in the language, his 
general academic record, and his 
emotional stability and adap­
tability. 
Broestl said that one of the 
greatest aspects of the Foreign 
Study program is the "broad 
educational experience" the 
student receives. He explained 
that the opportunity to travel and 
meet other people, plus the usual 
academic structure, make the 
year abroad worthwhile ex­
perience. 
Students in the various 
programs are generally very 
enthusiastic about their year, and 
many have mixed emotions about 
coming back home. One student 
Bonne Bell Cosmetics will be conducting interviews on campus to find a Campus Rep for their products. 
There will be no selling involved you just promote their products. 
Interviews will be Monday, March 25th. Further info about time & place in Monday's Observer. 
study available 
commented that he would not have given up the year for anything, and another added that his year was probably the finest of his life. 
Most returning students do not find it very difficult to readjust to Notre Dame but miss the more relaxed way of life found in Mexico and the other countries. The competition for grades is not on the cut-throat level that exists here, one student commented. 
Many candidates are unsure whether they are willing to pass up a year at Notre Dame for something they are unsure of, but one student spending this year in Mexico explained, "Only God knows how much I miss Notre 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE *! TONIGHT ! * 

BILL HILLSTROM BOB PEDTKE 
BOB THOMAS DRIENNE COFFIN RICK WALTERS CHARLIE SHRECK TOM STELLA 
beneath caf 9:00-1:00 strawberry sundaes!! 
TONIGHT!! 
Dance With the Pros 
48 -hrs of Dancing starts 
4 p.m. Fri-4 p.m. Sun 


Help Muscular Dystrophy 
6:30-2 pm Fri, "Soul Sounds Band" 10 pm -2 am, "Buck" $ .so donation requested per couple 2nd Floor La Fortune 
BONNE BELL 



WANTS 

YOU I 


Dame and how much I look for­ward to getting back there next fall. Yet I wouldn't have given up this year for anything." 
Notre Dame has. programs in Innsbruck, Austria, Angers, France and Tokyo, Japan. There is also a Rome program set up by St. Mary's College. 
The. Observer is publiShed dally durtng the college semester exc:ept vacations by the stuoents of the Unive,rsity of Notre Dame and St. Mary s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($1~ per year) from The Obs~rver Box Q, Notre Dame, lndrana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame lnd 
46556. • . 

-~ ~ -~ ~ -------------------.-----~·---..... -­
--~---------~ 
Friday, March 22, 1974 the observer 

Motley speaks on 
Difficulties of education integration 
by Mike Rizzo 
Staff Reporter 

"I'm just throwing out the problems. I don't know the solutions," stated Hon. Constancl! Motley, United States Distric~ Judge, speaking of the difficulties of education integration yesterday in a question-and-answer discussion group as part of the conference of the Notre Dame Center For Civil Rights. 
The participants met in the Center for Continuing Education as part of the program "Brown v. Board of Education: reflection on the continuing challenge." (The Brown case of 1954 denied the constitutionality of "separate but equal" educational facilities and precipitated the present conflict with bussing and racial integration of schools.) 
Judge Motley was joined by Phineas Indritz a civil rights attorney, Louis L. Redding, a private attorney, and Joseph B. Robison, the director of the Commission on Law, Social Action and Urban affairs of tlle American Jewish Congress. All four were connected with the Brown case. 
Questions from the audience 

centered around the issue of racial 
integration of schools by bussing 
and Judge Motley fielded most of 
the questions. Motley, of the 
questions. Motley, a former 
Manhattan borough president and 
a New York state senator, was 
acquainted with the difficulties 
faced by large cities in the in­
tegration issue. 
Some proponents of bussing would bus black students from the center of town out to the suburbs, Motley suggested. The inferior inner-city schools would then be empty Judge Motley raised the question of the feasibility and the morality of bussing white, suburban children into schools in the center of Harlem. 

Judge Motley stated that in some small communities bussing on a wide scale is feasible, but in other places such a program is faced with tremendous difficulties. Though the city schools need to be improved, he said, the rejection of bussing is not necessarily an agreement to the doctrine of "separate but equal" educational facilities (Piessy v. Ferguson). She stated, "We live in an entirely different context in time to Plessy 
v. Ferguson." 

The idea of public support for integration by bussing was challenged in the discussion. Motley revealed that she had been run out of places in Manhattan by those who did not want bussing. "Do you know that all blacks in central Harlem want to bus their children out to White Plains? I don't know that," she stated. 
Integration is not just a question of race but also of class, said Motley. When she was borough president, Motley met many poor whites who needed the educational and economic opportunities of integration as much as any black. 
Many of the white people in the suburbs, commented Robinson, do not even want poor whites from the city bussed into their schools. 
Voluntary bussing was suggested as a possible solution to the integration problem. Motley countered this by admitting that this could solve some simple cases but on a more massive scale the practical difficulties of having citizens send their children wherever they desire are in­surmountable. Indritz added that wealthier locations do not want an influx of poorer class people of any race. When poor families move to the suburbs there is an addition of school children with no corresponding increase in tax money to hold the tax base. 
After outlining the complexity of specific integration proposals the board considered the problem in a more general light. Indritz in­dicated that citizens look too much to the judiciary to effect change and outling policy. He maintained that the courts should be used only when the legislative branch fails to act. One should expect few new crucial rulings from the present Supreme Court. Indritz stated, so the legislature should be utilized to accomplish civil rights goals. 
The important consideration, "Why should the burden fall only upon the blacks and whites who live in the central city?" came from the panel. They concurred that the burden of the problem should fall upon all who live in a metropolitan area. Too often suburbanites isolate themselves from the problem which should crucially concern them. 
Late in the discussion the panel 
shifted their attention to consider 



Vietna.m Veterans Day declared to observe return of prisoners 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
President Richard M. Nixon has declared Friday, March 29, "Vietnam Veterans Day," com­memorating the first anniversary of the return of the last prisoner from Vietnam. 
Metro Area Chairman of the National Alliance of Businessmen, James Treacy said, "The best way to observe Vietnam Veterans Day is to intensify our efforts to insure that all of our Vietnam· veterans have a decent job." 
Despite the length and unun­popularit:y of the Vietnam conflict,. Treacy, a Bendix Vice-Presidenl' and 1952 Notre Dame graduate, said, "There should be no debate that the brave men and women who served their country during this troublesome period deserve to be honored." 
Treacy pointed to the high 
national unemployment rate as 
being even higher for Vietnam 
veterans and that those veterans 
who are employed have 
inadequate seniority in many 
cases to weather the energy crisis. 
Coach's ·son 
safe after 

abduction scare 
ATLANTA (UPI)-Kyle Rodgers, 16-year-old son of Georgia Tech football coach Pepper Rodgers, was safely at home today after his disap­pearance for almost a day raised an abduction scare. 
He was found by searchers alone with his dog in an apartment complex near his suburban Atlanta home Thursday. 
A search was launched after the 
boy's mother reported she hadn't . 

management company 3012 east edison road, south
seen him since he left Wednesday afternoon to walk his doll:. 
bend· 

The National Alliance for 
Businessmen is particularly concerned about the "doubts and prejudices when it comes to hiring the handicapped," Treacy stated. "The truth of the matter is that the disabled veteran makes a fine employee-as good as, if not better ·than, his non-handicapped com­
petitor." 

He added that too many veterans 
feel that the system has deserted 
them. "We owe our veterans a lot. 
The least that we owe them is a 
job," he said. 

"Vietnam Veterans Day would 
be a good time for us to start 
paying this debt," Treacy con­
cluded. 

P.R. Leatherwood, a public relations official at Bendix, discussed the Business Alliance as being "a unique partnership of business, labor, and government people formed at the request of the late President Johnson in 1968 to develop and operate job op­portunities programs for veterans and the disadvantaged." 
No special activities are planned for the day, according to Leatherwood. "The emphasis will be on radio and television sp.,ts designed to give the public a greater awareness of the problem," Leatherwood. noted. 
No mention has been made by the alliance of the possibility of support for a general amnesty of draft-dodgers at this time, Leatherwood stated. 
c 
A 
M p 
u 
s 
v 
I E 
w 

....jijljiiilfiiiiiiili~~ --------­
NUW KENTING 
one and two bedroom furnished apartments 
Featuring: 

+ 
SWIMMING POOL 

+ 
COMMUNITY BUILDING 

+ 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 


+ 
REFRIGERATOR 

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT 

+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood 
some harms or pending difficulties that may result from the in­tegration issue. In some southern localities the forced integration of universities has closed all-black schools resulting in even fewer blacks attending institutes of higher learning. From the University of Washington a case is pending which could eliminate all preferential treatment to any person because of race. Not only would this affect business but it would eliminate many of the minority opportunity admission policies at universities.. 

The entire scope of the discussion served to outline the crucial difficulties in integration and revealed the lack of an en­compassing solution. The discussions arranged by the Center For Civil Rights were to continue with Hon. Sargent Shriver's speech and more panel members on Friday. The Notre Dame Center For Civil Rights was established in 1973 to analyze current civil rights issues and make recommendations to satisfy the problems. 

SUNDAY MASSES 

MAIN CHURCH 
5:15 pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC 9:30am Sun. Fr. Oliver Williams, CSC 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. David Burrell, CSC 
12:15 pm Sun. Fr. William Toohey, CSC 
4:30pm Sun. Evenson -Lady Chapel 
6:30 pm Sun. Byzantine Rite -Holy Cross 
'l"''"lll"'ll"'llliiiilll"'ll"'llliiiilllmmmnmmiiiinliiiilllma~mn~iiiimmmm~mlliiii;~;ulllm~u.lll;;;;l~;ullmll~mlll...,ll~mmm~mmm;mllmlllmllmlll"'llliiilll"'ll"'lllu.lll"'ll..,lllu.ll"'lll;::;;l 

, 



SENIOR BAR 
SUPER SCOTCH NITE Ill 
JOHNNY WALKER RED, CUTTY 
0
ICHIVAS REGAL~ ~:HNNYN:::L~~-: BLACK. $.551 
~ 
e= = = 
~=­
§. 
All Nile, from 4:00-2:00 

i 
= Don't forget hCIPPY hours from 4-6, $ .25 pints 5= = 
We'll be open Saturday at noon for NCAA action. ~=­Saturday Specia I: 7& 7's: 3 for $1.00 
~ 








StartingSunday 





LaFortune. COUP. and budget discussed 
by Chris O'Brien Staff Reporter 

During Spring break, the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees met to clarify and to discuss the LaFortune' Renovation, the fiscal policy of the University, and the COUP report. 
According to Dr. James Frick, Secretary of the Board of Trustees, the Executive Committee is made of the heads of the various 'stan­ding' committees. Among such committees are the Student Mfairs Committee and the Investment Committee. 
"This Executive Committee meets," said Frick, "so that the University can continue to run without calling in all the members of the Board of Trustees. We have all the heads of the 'standing committees present so that each committee will be informed of what the other committees are doing, and how their actions will affect them." 
When questioned about a decision on the renovatiQn, • Frick answered, "The .!:xecutive Committee is as anxious as anyone to get something done this respect, bu_t it must take two things into account; first, the money it will cost for renovation, and second, how the present building can be 
changedto best serve the purposes 
of those who will use it." Dr. Frick 
pointed out that the Executive 
Committee decidedthat a quarter 
of a millon dollars could be devoted 
to this purpose. 
"What the committee wants 
now," continued Frick, "is for the 
people involved in the renovation· 
of Lafortune to see what 
renovations will be possible to 
accomplish with this amount of 1 
Shriver: Nixon doing 'nothing' to help civil rights movement 
by William Murphy Staff Reporter 

In a press conference at the Center for Continuing Education yesterday, former vice­presidential candidate Sargent Shriver stated that he believed the Nixon Administration is doing nothing to help the Civil Rights movement. 
Shriver, who arrived on campus to take part in the University's third annual Civil Right's Lecture Series, answered questions ranging from Civil Rights to his political future. 
Shriver said that the Civil Rights movement was now in a different stage in America. He felt that all that could be achieved judicially and by means of legislation had been accomplished. 
Shriver said that strong leader­ship is necessary in the executive branch of government or the Civil Rights cause will suffer as he claimed it has under Nixon. 
A former president of the Chicago Board of Education, Shriver stated that education ••is totally inadequate for life in the 21st century if it is segregated." He felt that busing could improve education by doing away with segregation not only between minority groups but also different socio-economic classes. Shriver did stipulate that busing should have limits and that it should be handled in a practical wav. 
Shriver was asked if he had 
any future political aspirations, 
especially in Dlinois. He was quick 
to answer that he has made no 
political plans. He J)Ointed out that 
c 
A 
M p 
u 
s 
v 
I E 
w 
money. They want the renovation committee, at the full Board of Trustees meeting in May, to be able to present to the board a plan that has a consensus agreement from those who will use LaFortune and that stays within the quarter of a millon dollar cost." 
Regarding the decision of the committee on this topic, Frick remarked, "There are three things wich have been gained from this meeting; one, the trustees now have a clearer idea of what is possible in the renovations; two, we allnow know how much money can be put into this; and three, the students have a solid committment on the part of the trustees to get this renovation done." 
The second main point of the meeting was the COUP report. 

"The COUP report (Committee on-\~-is a You see, 
Dr. James Frick, secretary of the Board of Trustees, reported 
on a recent meeting of the Executive Comittee. All in all, Dr. 
Frick called the meeting "pretty routine ••• " 
the University Priorities) was sent to all students, faculty, and alumni when it was published," pointed out Frick, "and the Executive Committee reviewed each segment of it." 
Frick explained that the reason this report was sent to everyone was because this document, after review by the full Board in May, will direct the course of the University for the next four or five years, and the committee wants to try to gain everyone's reactions to take them into account in this matter. 
"For example," said Frick, "the report suggested a slowdown in building to further solidify the finances of the University, and the Board willl want people's reactions to this suggestion. they want to 
his candidacy in the last presidential election was "almost 
accidental". 
In response to a question Shriver spoke about what he felt were the causes of the downfall of the McGovern-8hriver ticket. Shriver said that by the time he became involved in the election it was "almost a hopeless situation." 
"Senator McGovern," said Shriver, "had to take certain positions to get the nomination and a following which were difficult to 
• I • 
to the total electorate." 

call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south bend· 
NUVY KtN liNG one and two bedroom furnished apartments 
Featuring: 

+ 
SWIMMING POOL 


+ 
COMMUNITY BUit.DING 

+ 
2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER +RANGE 

+ 
REFRIGERATOR 

+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT 


+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
· Mc~oyern, added Shriver, "was 
the Vlcbm of a very good Hum­
phrey campaign in California. 
Shriver pointed out. t~~t Humphrey 
was a shrewd pohbc1an and was 
able to expose all of Me Govern's 
frailties. 

"Finally," said Shriver, "the Republican campaign did a fine job of smearing McGovern and making it stick. It became a campaign about McGovern rather than about how bad the Nixon administration had been during its first term." 
the Board of Trustees creates the policies in which the rest of us are involved. Theirs is the goal­eastablishing role." 
The current fiscal position of the University was the third main topic of discussion. "The com­mittee wants to make sure that the University is operating within their budget. They reviewed the performance of the investment Advisors. They were concerned about the fall of the Stock Market, because a fall of the market affects the endowments which are in-
THE ROMA 

welcomes our Notre Dame & St. Mary's friends back from Spring Break your host, FRANK ANASTASIO 
+PIZZA +FINE ITALIAN FOOD +LIQUOR 
Appearing this weekend for your dancing pleasure: "Low Rent" (from Mishawaka!). Live music 4 nites a week. We're open until4 a.m. on weekends (for late nite munchies). 
For deliveries call 234-3258 219 N. Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend (next to Morris Civic) 
Jim 
'63 
Chuck 
'65 

1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
SPRING BEER SPECIALS 
NEW DISTILLERY T-SHIRTS ALL SIZES -$2.50 
MIX FOR HURRICANES NOW IN STOCK 
EAST ON EDISON· LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORDER KEGS 

vested so the University may use the income from it," said Frick. 
Aside from the three things mentioned above, Frick said the meeting was quiet. There were a few things voted on, but these will have little affect on the Notre Dame Community. The com­mittee heads of the'standing' committees gave reports on any meetings their committee had had since the last Executive Com­mittee meeting. All in all, Dr. Frick called the meeting "pretty routine. " 


F,riday; .~rei\ 22, .1.974 • 


Coincidence saves Princess Anne 
By Robert Musel 
LONDON UPI -The crime would have been without parallel in modern times: The kidnaping of Princess Anne, daughter of Queen Elizabeth, and the holding of an entire nation at ransom. It failed, partly by coincidence. 
Police charged Ian Ball, 26, described as unemployed and of no fixed address, with attempted murder today after he ambushed the limousine carrying the Prin­cess and husband Capt. Mark Phillips near Buckingham Palace Wednesday night and shot four people before he was captured. 
He will appear at Bow Street Magistrates Court today, charged with the attempted murder of Princess Anne's bodyguard who was shot three times. The would­be kidnaper, a lone non-political operator according to Scotland Yard, fired six shots into the limousine. 
Neither the princess nor her 
husband was hit in the macabre 
scene in which they scrambled for 
their lives on the back seat of the 
Princess' maroon Daimler 
automobile while the frantic 
gunman alternately tried to get a 
!ihot home and shook the car in his 
frenzy to force the doors open_. 
Since he had in his pocket a 
With Henry move 
ransom note to the Queen about her daughter, it was assumed the bullets in the car were intended to kill only the Capt. Phillips as an obstacle to escaping the the 23­year-old princess, who is fourth in succession to the throne. 
Realizing he had failed as police reinforcements came up, the gunman raced into the dark of nearby St. James Park, pursued by police constable Peter Edwards, 21, who brought him down with a flying tackle. The coincidence that helped in his capture was the presence of more police than usual in the area for that hour when the queen is no~ in residence at nearby Buckingham Palace. 
Within hours the act had changed , perhaps for all time, Bnush attitude to protecting royalty and other celebrities. Orders went out to step up security around Queen Elizabeth and Prince Phillip, who are on a state visit to Indonesia and thePrinceof Wales, heir to the throne, who is serving on the British Frigate Jupiter at San Diego, California. 
Scotland Yard summoned a meeting of experts which was expected to recommend bullet proof glass and armor for royal automobiles, more armed guards and a closer inspection of royal routes, among other measures, even though it is 160 years since a top British political figure was assassinated. 

SMC faculty disappointed 
by Jane Cannon Staff Reporter 
Faculty members at St. Mary's have expressed profound disap­pointment concerning the resignation of SMC President Dr. Edward Henry. 
"Everybody is disappointed,"· stated Mrs. Linnea Vacca, a member of the English depart­ment. "All of the faculty members were behind him. Some had their differences, but they saw the importance of his position and opinions." 
Vacca described the resignation as "potentially dangerous" and felt that it was definitely "bad news." 
Spe<'ul~ticn t:as al!'eady begun 
concerning Henry's successor, but Vacca said that the position is a "hot seat" which imposes "various problems." The vacancy will be effective August 31, 1974. 
Vacca cites the primary problem as "the ill-defined Catholic nature of the school. It makes it hard in that you must do things that are Catholic." 
Vice-President of Academic Affairs Dr. William Hickey, is Vacca's personal choice for a replacement. She explained, "With Bill Hickey as president, it would be a Utopian situation. He has seen the workings of the office up close. Although he is in a position in the administration, he remains friends with members of the faculty, which is hard to do." 
Bike-a-thon slated 
of the Council for the Retarded of
by Mary Janca 
St. Joseph County, will be the
Staff Reporter 
starting and ending points of the ride. Before the event, particiQants are to obtain sponsors, friends,
"Ride a Bike For The Retarded" 
relative, or businessmen, who will
is the new battle cry of the Indiana 
pledge a given amount of money
State Teachers Association, which 
per mile. Then, along the route,
is sponsoring a 25-mile "bike-a­
six checkpoints will be established, 
thon" Sunday, April 28 to raise 
to insure sponsors that the rider
funds for state and county 
has completed his said distance
organizations for -the retarded. 
and to allow cyclists the op-
The planned route follows the St. Joseph River. Logan Center, home (continued on page 11) 


Even police were shocked by the incident. "What the hell is the world coming to?" said a senior officer. He added that security has not expectected anything unusual. The drama on the Mall, the broad thoroughfare that leads to Buckingham Palace, began at 
7:50 p.m. 2:50 p.m. EDT While Princess Anne and Capt. Phillips were returning from a private showing of a film "Riding Towards Freedom" made for the riding for Disabled Association, one of her charities. She appears in the film. 
From an eyewitness, Miss Sammy Scott, whose car was behind the royal automobile, and from other sources this was the sequence of events. A tall, thin man leaped from the white Ford and fired at Detective Inspector James Beaton who became the Princess bodyguard on her wed­ding day. Beaton returned the fire till his gun jammed and then fell with bullets in his body. His condition is serious. Another burst of bullets caught the royal chauffeur, Alex Callender, and a stray bullet hit a journalist, Brian 
McConnell. Police Constable Michael Eills on duty at St. James Palace heard the shooting and came running only to receive a bullet in the liver. He managed to report "I have been shot" on his personal radio before he fell. 
Hospital spokesman early today described the condition of all four iniured men as "satisfactorv ." 
A search committee, comprised of two faculty members, a student, alumnae, administration, and Regents, is being set up to in­vestigate possible replacements. 
In a meeting of the Faculty 
Assembly yesterday, Sr. Elena M. Malits, from the Religious Studies department, and Dr. Eugene Campanale, from the Education Department, were elected to represent the faculty on the search committee. 
Earlier St. Mary's senior Barb McKiernan was selected as the student representative. 
A resolution of the Faculty Assembly, unanimously passed on March 12, summed up the opinion of the SMC faculty: "Be it resolved that the Faculty Assembly of St. Mary's College does express its gratitude for the service of Ed· ward L. Henry as President of the College, its sincere regret at his imminent departure from that Presidency, and its best wishes for him in his future endeavors." 
Chairman of the Faculty Assembly Dr, Richard Pilger expressed his personal regrets on the resignation and stated that he is "looking forward to the action of the search committee." Pilger feels certain that the committee will act "promptly and carefully." 
Miss Scott saw Miss Brassey leave the limousine crouched on all fours to try to get to one of the wounded. She asked what was the matter. 
"Get down," said the lady-in­waiting," there's a maniac loose." 
The gunman then fired six bullets into the Austin. Miss Scott said Phillips kept his arms around his wife trying to shield her as they shifted from side to side. She saw Anne and Mark try to escape out of the door on the sidewalk side while the gunman was on the otherside of the car "shaking the door madly and firing."When he saw them trying to get out he rushed around and they huddled back in the car. 
In the meantime police who had commandeered taxis and private cars in answer to a top priority alert were arriving and a half a 
dozen of them advanced the gunman, threatening constable Edwards with his pistol, headed for St. James Park. 
The Princess and her husband were taken to Buckingham Palace where a spokesmen said they were unhurt but "obviously they are very shaken." Afew minutes later the princess was able to say: "We are very thankful to be in one piece. We are extremely grateful to all those members of the police and public who tried to help us." 
Once safely inside Buckingham Palace, Anne and Phillips telephoned Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip in the Indonesian capital of Djakarta, Prince Charles in San Diego and Phillips' parents in the Wiltshire village of Great Somerford to reassure them, palace spokesman said. 
---~ ~ ~---~---~---­
~--authentic folk art of the americas 
tianguis 

thieves market sat..sun. 
FRESHMEN INTERESTED IN LAW SCHOOL 
A Law School Information Session will be held on Sunday, March 24 at 7:00pm in the Grace Hall Pit. 
All Freshmen Are Invited. 
Dean Weddick will be on hand to an­
swer questions and distribute 
materials:. 
LOW-COST AFFINITY-GROUP FLIGHT TO ENGLAND ON REGULARLY SCHEDULED B.O.A.C. 747 
NEW YORK-LONDON-NEW YORK 
MID-JUNE DEPARTURE MID-AUGUST RETURN 

AVAILABLE TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF (AND THEIR IMMEDIATE FAMILIES) 
CONTACT THE TRAVEL BUREAU IN BADIN HALL (Tel. 7080) NOT LATER THAN APRIL 1 

the obse-rver• ·., .y~ Friday, March 22,,1974 v •i)'' 

Gasior plans An Tostal 'revelry' 

by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 

"An Tostal is a very special time of year for the Notre Dame community. It is a three-day festival that has quickly become a tradition at Notre Dame.lt is unique in that almost everything is free. It is special because people come together for the purpose of 
having  a  good time laughing  at  
each other."  
The  bulwark  of  An  Tostal  is  

grounded upon the cooperation and exertion of many enthusi,stic people. An Tostal is a festival that engulfs the campus in its revelry." 
That's how An Tostal Coor­dinator Wally Gasior defined Notre Dame's upcoming spring celebration Wednesday night as the An Tostal committee mustered its forces for the final hectic weeks of preparation. From nine until midnight-the last three hours of winter-more than twenty An Tostal volunteers ironed out the final schedule for the Hall President's Council annual weekend of springtime frolic. 
"I am very pleased," said Gasior after the meeting, "with both the quality and the en­thusiasm of this year's An Tostal Committee. The people involved are the major determinant of the success or failure of An Tostal Weekend." · 
"The people involved" have come up with a schedule that is truly wondrous. Incorporating traditional favorites and last year's outstanding new events with some inspired and novel activities, the An Tostal timetable promises three days of delightful, crowd­pleasing entertainment. 
Gentle Thursday 

For instance, Gentle Thursday, Aprill9, will open the three days of merrymaking with the traditional Irish Lunch, courtesy of the Notre Dame Dining Halls, highlighted by the distribution of An Tostal balloons by beautifulli!irls wearing even more beautiful An Tostal smiles. Then, eyes will turn up­ward to marvel at the colorful collage of kites framed by the backdrop of a (hopefully) clear blue Indiana sky. At 1:45 p.m., audience volunteers will battle time in An Tostal's version of TV's "Beat the Clock." Immediately afterward, The Observer's Art Ferranti challenges the powers of recollection of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students in the fun-filled, fact-filled Trivia Bowl. In­cidentally, St. Mary's has yet to win a victory in this traditional and popular quiz contest. 
Next, the finest girls basketball team on campus duels the Fighting Irish varsity behind the bookstore. In order to hamper any attempts to earn a penalty for illegal use of hands, the men will be required to wear boxing gloves. 
The same courts will showcase the semi-final round of the Bookstore Basketball tourney at 4:45p.m. 
Thursday evening, the festivities shift from the South Quad to the North. Anyone who ever played with blocks as an infant qualifies for the can stacking contest, in which steady-handed team members attempt to top the two­year~ld record of 84 levels. Since you must supply your own cans <hundreds are required), it is suggested that potential entrants get thirsty pronto. 
Around 7:30 p:m., the jail will open and An Tostal law-which tries, convicts, and incarcerates anybody you want for 25 cents­goes into effect. When their sen­tence is up, the jailbirds will be given two options: either bribe your way out or go directly to the adjacent pie throwing booth. You can guess what will happen to them there. 
Campus celebrities begin , 

splashing  at  8  p.m.  in  the  
celebrated dunking  booth.  
All  the while,  a  still-to-be  an­ 

nounced band will be providing musical entertainment. The burlap sack race, that picnic standard, hops along about 8:30. 
Music, music, and more music will be featured when the com­mittee introduces the "Name That Tune" contest, so brush up on your Beethoven. Maybe they'll even play the An Tostal committee them song, "Oh Lord, Don't Let the Rain Come Down." 
Can you shoot out a candle flame at eight or nine paces? You'll be given the chance to try, using water pistols, of course, right after "Name That Tune". 
Simulataneously, softball en­thusiasts will test their throwing skills-but watch out, there's a trick. 
Finally, the flour blowing contest will bring a windy finish to Gentle Thursday. 
Frivolous Friday 
Frivolous Friday begins with big mouths putting their jello where their mouth is in the Jello Toss. Also at 2:00 p.m., the committee takes the wraps off its new Home Run Derby. 
"Please emphasize," one worker told The Observer,"that we never promised that Hank Aaron would hit his 714th and 715th home runs on Frivolous Friday at Notre Dame." Well, that's one rumor put to rest. · 
Part-time Ed Sullivans, John Waynes, and, it is hoped, Muhammed Alis share the sunlight in the annually talent­
filled Impersonation Contest. 
After the hams comes the Egg Toss. Elsewhere, contestants will 
attempt to shave balloons. Girls Dame Decathlon's pre-breakfast may enter whether they have a start. mustache or not. 
An Tostal's classic sports event, (continued on page 7) the Bookstore Basketball Tour-i nament Finals, is also one of its biggest draws. The championship game is scheduled for 4:00pm. 
Registration for the touriiment begins next Monday. <See Mon­day's Observer for details.) 
On lt'riday evening, at 7:00 pm, Stepan Center hosts a special "surprise event" to warm up the crowd for "The Sixth Original An Tostal Amateur Hour," Last year's talented winner performed the Notre Dame Victory March and the William Tell Overture-on 
his teeth! Immediately afterward, 
a free concern featuring either "a 
name group or an individual 
performer," according to Gasior, 
will be provided. 
Sunny Saturday 
Despite its name, Sunny Saturday 
will probably start before the sun even rises. The reason is the Notre: 609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 

PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
On Sunday, March 24, a Law School Symposium will be held in the Library Auditorium at 2:00pm. Law students from Notre Dame, Northwestern Chicago, and Michigan will b~ featured. 
All Interested In Law School Are Invited 

Party Headquarters 

For KEG Parties: 
We have the newest and best equipment available I 
Pabst Busch Stroh's 

and Others Wholesale Prices f 
We will handle all your "end of the year" and graduation party needs with a wide selection of 
BEER LIQUORS WINES MIXES SOFT DRINKS and SNACKS 


Friday, March 22, 1974 the observer. 
St. Mary's program nominated for award 
Gene Norris, director, Indiana but offers to us model programs individual to satisfy basic human Senator Bayh's visit was in con­
The Saint Mary's College Criminal Justice Agency, Region I, for use in other areas of the state." needs, defined by Glasser as junction with his chairmanship ofParent-Delinquient Education both recommended the program. PDEP was established in "relatedness and respect", which the. Senate Subcommittees toProgram <PDEP) was nominated Norris' letter stated "The PDEP December, 1972, at Saint Mary's one learns to do by rejecting Investigate Juvenile Delinquency.
for an Exemplary Project Award has provided St. Joseph County College following a $30,000 grant irresponsible behavior and Governor Bowen toured withby Region I of the Law En-with an outstanding approach in from the Indiana Criminal Justice developing better ways to act. 
teachers of the .project and metforcement Assistance Ad-dealing with the problems of Planning Agency. The St. Joseph Dr. John Feldhusen, chairman 
with participatin~ students to
ministration. This recom-juvenile delinquiency, scholastic County ProbateCourt acted as of Educational Psychology and discuss their impressions ofmendation was forwarded to the under-achievement and family sponsor on behalf of the College. Research at Purdue University the program.
National Institute of Law En-circumstances." The College's Department of praised the program when he From its inception, PDEPforcement and Criminal Justice, Gallagher explained, "We Education has worked closely with visited the facilities onthesSaint has received the· support of South U.S. Department of Justice. realize that this is the type of Francis X. Kopinski, Judge, St. Mary's College campus. 
Bend Mayor Jerry Miller, DonaldPB:trick Gallagher, director of concerned activity that is not only Joseph County Probate Court in "What a marvelous job of D. Dake, Superintendent of Southpubhc safety, South Bend, and helping a number of young people, coordinating this program. translating paper description into Bend Community School Cor­
One of the first programs of its reality! You are extremely well­p(Jration, and Cappy Gagnon, I L e t .b t .ons kind in the state, PDEP is designed organized and providing Executive Director-Youth Ser­
Hu valuable· theraphy and education 
vices Bureau, South Bend.

gLJ. S COn El U l i~>~s~~t J~~~~~:fn~o~~:it~~:e~e\~~ for the youngsters," noted 
PDEP was recently re-funded ·~ 1 d n r images. This is done through in-for $20,000 by the Law En­
Feldhusen.t0 ...~...ary an gover 0 dividualiz~attentionin~eareas Senator Birch Bayh, <D­forcement Assistan­
of academ1cs, constructive hob-Indiana), and Otis R. Bowen, ces Administration forLOS ANGELES (UPI) dent Spiro Agnew,. according to hies, physical education, and Governor of Indiana, have. both 
the remainder of the 1974 fiscalAmong the riches Howard federal court testimony Thurs-socialization. Parents also receive visited the PDEP facilities. 
vear. 

Hughes spread around to day. group instruction and counseling. politicians of almost every level A deposition by Thomas G. Reality Therapy, developed by of government and political Bell, a Las Vegas lawyer for psychiatrist William Glasser, 
School house Too 

persuasion was $10,000 given to Hughes, was read in the trial of M.D., is the foundation from which a governor of Maryland at the a libel suit brought against PDEP works with the students. 
In the Brewery 

request of former Vice Presi-(continued on page 14) Theapproachfocusesonaidingthe 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181

Chariot racers needed from each hall 

The midwest's most complete nee.dlepoint shop
An Tostal schedule set 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation Chariot Race 
of student I D 
"Hush." 
(continued from page 6) 

An Tostal will draw to a festive HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pmThe committee is really pushing 
and happy close Saturday night
The morning hours also feature for a big response for the chariot with the Beach Foys in concert at SUNDAY, 12 m-6 m race.

the Road Rally and the Bike Race. 

~~~~~; i:!~~~~~~.sale March 29) r~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~::&&~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~
Students are invited to dine "We hope that there will be a 
outdoors at the Free-Picnic-by-the­greater response this year for the Lake located on the north bank of chariot race. It is essential that St. Mary's Lake. the halls construct a chariot and 

diY:.~o~~~~~~elr~ r~:as~0rr:i!~~ The PIayhouse
..:== l=i=l=i.. 
customary rumor of the week,
get enough people interested in the The An Tostal Field <the vast one which goes as follows: "It has been :: 525 N H"ll ·:·:enroute to SMC, just west of Holy event. Besides, Ben-Zero is fearful rumored that, in order to further .;: • I ~=: Cross Hall) will be the scene of the that he will be the lone participant intensify the competition in the :1~ live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat. ~%festivals most thrilling events. in the race." 

already highly competitive tug-of-t; :~:;For example, the tug-of-war is Mike Brauweiler, who will run war, the tug-of-war pit will be ~.~: Happy Hour Mon.-Fri. 5-7 p.m. ::::always afavoriteof the crowd. And the event for An Tostal, stated, 
then there's last year's "rookie "Chariots should be of your own stocked with 300 or so rarely-fed : DRINKS ARE 2 for J I :;:;
piranhas." ; ;:;:of the year" event, the finals of the design, two wheels only, to be 
Reminder-the An Tostal :::1 :~;
Volleyball-in-the-Mud Tour­drawn by four horsemen, one comm~ttee still hopes to pres~nt ~~; Dance fr·1 & Sat ~~~ nament. driver." He emphasized, "Make the J1m E. Brogan Memonal ;:J :::: Back again will be the famous them sturdy! Not a sin_gle chariot Award to the hall or organization ::~ to Sounds of :;:;:pie eating and needle-in-the­finished last year's gruelling 'race 

1 

making the most outstanding and :;l ''S d f • " :;:;:
haystack contest, as well as the of races' intact." original contribution to An Tostal. =~ un CIY unnleS :;:::
frisbee throwing championship. For further information on the 

<Remember the Lyons Hall ~==·········-···=·=·=·=···=·=·-·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-=·=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:=:·:·:::-:·::::::c::::::::::::::-:::::::::::::::::::::.;:;.;.;.;:;:;.;:~
chariot race, call 1487 and ask for elephant?) 


New oil embargo unlikely 
by STEWART HENSLEY Syrian-Israeli disengagement. At isolationism, not a quest for 
least we are hopeful.'' Asked if domination," Kissinger said. 
WASHINGTON UPI-8ecretary recent statements by Nixon The U.S., he added, was trying to of State Henry Kissinger said critical of European cooperation "counteract what seemed to us an Thursday the administration did with the U.S. was an "attempt to evolution in America towards not believe the Arabs would blackmail" the Western allies, shedding responsibility." reimpose their oil embargo against Kissinger said the U.S. is not Kissinger noted that Nixon the U.S. because they never would seeking domination of its repeatedly has opposed unilateral be able to reach unanimous European friends but is concerned reduction of U.S. troop strength in agreement. about growing isolationism in Europe, even he said in a Chicago 
Kissinger, at a 4-minute news America. speech ~ast week that the Western 
conference, was asked if he "In all statements we have made Europeans could not count on 
thought the embargo would to Europe we have attempted to continued U.S. military support 
reinstated June 1 when the Arabs explain that the danger that without continued political and 
meet to review the effect of having lifted the embargo last week. He said there were "conflicting reports" but: " ... The consensus seems to be that what the Arabs will do on June 1 is to review the decision and that it would require a new decision to reimpose the embargo ... and presumably ·that decision would have to be unanimous. So, we do not believe that it it is probable that the em­bargo will be reimposed." 
The Arabs imposed the embargo in retaliation to the friendly U.S. policy toward Israel and r.ould be expected to restore it should they disprove of U.S. attempts to settle the dispute along the IsraeU-8yrian border. 
As for these efforts, Kissinger · said,".'..we also believe that progress will be made on 

concerned us was American economic cooperation. 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 

$895 
Double occupancy 

No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
Thru June 15th, 1974 except May 18 and 19. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
RARE EARTH 
and special guest 
Rory Gallagher 

Sunday March 31 7:30pm 
Athletic and

NOTRE DAME 
Convocation Center 
Ticket Prices: 
Tickets on sale: 

Bleachers ............ $3.50 
NOTRE DAME,A. C. C. Mon-Sat 9 to 5 
L-er Arena .......$4.50 
Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall 
· Main Floor .......;.. SS.50 
St. Joseph Bank • and branches 

, Loge ....................$5.50 
First Bank -Main office only

Platform ...........~ ...$5.50 
Elkllart Truth 
the observer Friday, March 22, 1974 

Sub.livian Expressed 

The Right of Spring 


annmccarry 
ministration at work), is that he It is spring. There may be snow on the quad or sub-zero tem­succeeds. As my parents pointed 

A Response out to me, it's articles like Mr. Real Equality ? peratures in Frostbite Falls, Minnesota, but according to the Elsner's that are read around the calendar, it is officially spring. And, so it is time for the rite of country and that do project Notre spring to begin.Editor: Dame's image. It's articles like 
Winter kept us warm, tucked in our dorms, carrels or bars,I must express my great his that carry the University's Dear Sir, giving us an excuse for introspective thought and action. At thedisappointment in Mr. David "situation" to alumni, subway
Elsner's article in the "Wall Street alumni and outsiders alike, During the course of a class same time it has kept us waiting; waiting for the sun to come out Jo11111al that The Observer assuring them that God's in his discussion, I was surprised to hear and let us play all the games with the new strategies our winter a student remark, "We
reprinted March 20. Aside from heaven, all's right with Notre thoughts have borne. The dead season has brought seeds to be being misquoted myself, which is Dame. To students and faculty of have quality at Notre Dame, we 
planted in the spring.
relatively minor (God only knows are all treated alike." It did not
duLac, many of whom see these 

where Mr. Elsner got that "grade­take me long to realize that this
stories as seemingly taken from an student must have been asleep for Burning Fires of Concernpoint factory" stuff, and I un­ND press release, it becomes no a long time!

derstand that at least one other use to try to tell anyone what it's interviewee was also fictionally really like, for who can contradict Winter stoked the fires burning on the campus hearth. The

Are most students aware that
quoted), I found the article the likes of the Wall Street Journal calendar cebate stove off indifference for a while to be replaced by 

amazingly insensitive to the ? Certainly not the word of .vhile they work over the summer the perpetual nag of parietals and a veritable cattle stampede.
conditions that I have felt during someone who's merely been there. months to put themselves through four years as a student. N.D., many blacks are being given Fir.all~ , tl ere was an election which may prove to be the most
Thus,. Notre Dame goes on, in The main fault of Mr. Elsner's spite of the students and professors thousands of dollars just because significant of recent years. The issues may ripen now as a result. 
research for the article is, I think that provide its entire raison they are black? The financial aid The complacency of winter is fast being forgotten. Looking back 
based around who he talked to. I office calls the awards "minority
d'etre. Let's hope that the one will remember beating Alabama and UCLA, raising record
count only two students (including frustration of seeing images of scholarships", but if America is to funds at Mardi Gras, enjoying the Sophomore Literary Festival or
be the land of equality does any
myself) and two faculty members duLac as in Mr. Elsner's article fighting a political battle, not interminable hours of pure drudgery. 

quoted in the piece, as compared to negate much of what students and student deserve money because of 
four administrators <whose official race? Shouldn't every student, Characteristic of human nature, we can forget the unpleasant in
faculty see and experience doesn't 

views can be readily obtained from spoil any happy memories they regardless of race, be eligible for order to dwell on the pleasurable or the upcoming spring. advertising brochures) and five may take with them. all available funds? olbiders <who would have no idea 
Bitterness into Kinetic Energy

a taD of what goes on here), rather Sincerely, Another area of concern in strange for an article that is 
America is theequalityof woman. Are the women at N.D. enjoying
purported to be about the new Joseph Abell Yes, spring is here, the dance is beginning. There are newsc:bolarly image of the faculty and equality? I would saythatthey are dancers now, too, dancing new steps to the strokes of different

receiving more than enough to
studious image of students. 

make their lives enjoyable. Are folks. But more than that there is a new and different attitude So what does this add up to? Super Streak the students aware that the girls coming from the grass roots, smelling of flowering vines. There's a Certainly not an article that have larger rooms with less new feeling, a surge of emotion that seems to refreshingly offer 
Dear Editor; people? Are the students aware
~rtrays the current situation on the hope for the flowers. There is something definitely positive
On hundreds of campuses across that the rooms are freshly pain­
Noire Dame campus. Instead, Mr. demanding attention and action.
the country, students are planning ted? Are the students aware thatElsoer would have the entire It may be exemplifying my own naivete, but I believe that thethe ultimate streak -in. By the girls' dressers are brand newcOWJtry believe that nearly all streaking to the tune of "The and that their desks are retopped? bitterness and resentment that often linger on long after the thawDomers are like the highly on­Emperor Wears No Clothes Are students aware that detexes are being slowly replaced with an a bum mce of energy. The coals 
typical (contrary to Mr. Elsner's description) freshman he Clothes " we aim to show that the are placed on girls' dorms to keep that smoldered through Februar;v are bdng stirred and will shortly 
President has lost all respect in the males out? Some of these things
managed to find: willing to flame.
eyes of the American people. And are very small things in them­compromise his personal freedom we plan to have fun while we're selves but when everything is putand ideals to a rather nebulous 
doing it! together it shows how much Energy into Action
"gratitude" for being allowed to 

equality we have at Notre Dame.
attend ND. He would have the There has already been one

entire country believe that There is an undercurrent of discontent and dissatisfaction at
streaking aimed at Nixon and his It is entirely possible that the
scholarship reigns over all at duLac. Much dirt has been covered by winter's ambivalent dark
cronies. At thearraignmentof the student body is either blind or thatduLac, rather than the extremely Watergate 7 (Mitchell, they like to have woman on campus days and snow. The low rumble of winter should soon become arepressive situation imposed by Haldeman , Ehrlichman, et so much that they are willi11g to be loud roar.
the administration upon the al. )One of us streaked while ·trampled on, but neither of these Do you feel ripped off by the administration? By yourself? Arefaculty (ask your local neigh­wearing a 5 ft. high 1paper mache conditions will help make Notre

borhood prof about tenure and see you being cheated, stifled or complacent? Words of the winter have 
head of the President. UPI, AP, Dame a melting pot within a
how fast he changes the subject). indicated this with an agressiveness. If it is so, do not harbor your 
CBS and most newspapers in the melting pot. 
And finally, he would have the discontent or it will burn itself out to no avail.
country carried a picture and story country believe that Notre Dame is Let someone know what you are thinking and do something about of the event. Imagine what the 

one of the more beneficent. I think that it is obvious that in 
news on the night of April 1 will it. New student gm ~rnment, new student press, new attitudes will 
universities by example of how the two leading concerns of equality 
look like when tens of thousands in the United States, minorities be wasted without Hewer ideas and energies.
much social conditions have been streak to "The Emperor Wears No

changed, when most of those and woman, Notre Dame has 
Clothes!"

changes were made after work and reversed the trend of history and is Oh, Please ... Spread it Around
Time is short, but the energy is

pressure from students and faculty now discriminating against the
high. Won't you help in our streak 

upon an administration that average white male. I do not. feel
for impeachment by running the

generally prefers to run things that racial prejudice of any kind The temptation of sailing through the last weeks of the semester, 
enclosed poster, or some other has a place in our community but academically and socially unconscious, is a very real one. Plantingits own way. 

notice, in your paper?

But what is doubly disappointing N.D. must reach some kind of seeds in the spring can lead to a fruitful harvest in the fall. 
Streak-in, Speak-up, Freak-out!! 

equilibrium.
(and frustrating, after four years Positive energy is like manure: for its nature to be converted into with the campus media and 
The Emperor Wears No Clothes nuture, it must be spread around.
watching the University ad-Jose11h F. Cogne 
daanesbury caarry trudeau 
81/T ITWAS /1/&U, 111£'1 ZONKEI?, lt#U YOU T&U AU ASHAM, PIP! ANP 11e 11/IIAT I'M!il/PRJ5EP 7() SIR!~ NEVER 1Hii~ SAY TO 1HiiALI/MNI /#~ 1HJWjJ(T HIS HASN'T A STl4JtNT IN MYSCHX.¥­

.. r'M
&PI70J!5 /lltJUI.I) 5TOPPEP 15 ASSOC!AmJ /11/ll{ A 

JEAL.OlJS/
BUY A 111tJRP RIN6/N6 fiR ''TIM5•~smtzyCAUEP or IT! 1MJ PAtS! "CAMPVS ,tK)(J{): 1Hii N6ll I*Pf)NJSM!" \
' 
" 

the observer 

Night Editor: Bill Brink Assistant Night Editor: Andy Praschak Layout: AI Rutherford, Jerry Lutkus, Tom 
Drape, Ann McCarry, Fred Graver, Marla Gallagher Copy Editor: Greg Rowinski, Jim Eder Day Editors: Val Zurblls, Zenon Bldlnskl Typists: Carol Kelly, Karen Hinks, Bill Menk, Mike Seidel, Joe Abell Compugraphic: Carolina Sports: Greg Corgan Features: Bob Baker Editorials: Ann McCarry Night Controller: Joe Abell 
9

Friday, 
March 22, 1974 the observer 
Letters Ta A Lanely [;ad 
the children's hour 
reverend rabert ,.riffin 
Once upon a time, when the world was young, and I dreamed of life as an ad­venture of imperishable beauty' the most flawless situation I could imagine for myself was to be a missionary priest, standing in a rice paddy, surrounded by Chinese children. It was a romantic, highly idealized picture of the Christian commitment as I might have lived it with utter serenity, containing in its peacefulness the most perfect beauty I can imagine in children, the most loving way I could think of to serve Christ. In the end, of course, I never became a missionary, and I have never met those children as a Jesus-worker in a rice paddy, but the fantasy has never faded from my mind. In the night watches at Keenan, or among the lonely crowds of the New York streets, I have wished for the love and beauty of those children. Now, twenty years after my ordination in 1954, I am again dreaming a young man's fantasy of going to Asia, perhaps for the summer, looking for the rice paddy of my vision, where the little children have been waiting all the years of my life. 
But does anyone have suggestions as to 1w to make travel arrangements, and to tance a trip to Vietnam this summer? 
a new commitment 

My fantasy of the Children's Hour in the Orient was intensified while travelling through Dixie with the Glee Club, on tour during the semester break. In Columbus, Georgia, I met Dr. Patrick Tisdale and Betty Moul Tisdale and their ten children; and I feel that this family has inspired me with a new commitment, just as Betty Moul was inspired by the work of Dr. Tom Dooley in Southeast Asia. In 1959, Betty Moul, working as a secretary for U.S. Steel, heard that Dr. Dooley, whose books she had read, was in a New York hospital for cancer surgery. She phoned him, offering her help. "I can type, I know shorthand," she said. "I could answer your mail while you're in the hospital." That's how she became involved with Asia. When Dr. Dooley eventually returned to Laos and his medical teams, he sent back discs to Betty Moul, and she transcribed most of his dictation. 
what can I do? 

On his next trip to New York, Dr. Dooley couldn't walk. He died the day after his 34th birthday, and Betty Moul asked herself: "What can I do?" 
In 1961, on her vacation, she flew to Asia to see for herself what was needed. That was the first of many trips. On one of them, she met Madame Vu Thi Ngai, a refugee from the North, who spent her wealth in providing a home for sick and injured orphans. Dr. Dooley had frequently talked about the orphanage, called "An Lac," in Saigon. It was he who located the deserted French army barracks to house the children. 
It was then that Betty Moul took on as her personal crusade the raising of money in America to keep the orphanage going. The since their marriage, they have adopted five Vietnamese children. Now, Betty Moul Tisdale, in addition to caring for a home and family with ten children, works from 9:30 
p.m. until 2 each morning, raising more than $2,500 a month to support more than 400 orphaned children at An Lac. 
Once, long ago, I heard a wise man say: "Deliver me from a priest with a cause." I don't believe much in causes, because I don't think the world is going to be saved through the Pentecostal Movement, or Transcendental Meditation, or Little League baseball. But like all human beings, I am excited by the needs of children; like most Notre Darners, I am deeply moved by the life and work of Dr. Tom Dooley. Some on this campus get their lift from the Gip­per's story; others find the good gifts of God in marriages at the Log Chapel. But more than by Bernadette or the Virgin, or the candles blazing like campfires at the bivouacs of prayer at the Grotto, I am lifted onto the plains of grace by the Tom Dooley letter, which is part of the furnishing of that place. Once, in a time of crisis, the Tom Dooley room in the Student Center brought me closer to salvation than a second or­dination to the priesthood could have done. 
the cause to have 

For me, then, the Tom Dooley cause is the 
operating expenses at An Lac amount to. one cause to have, if you're having only one. $2,500 a month. On one of her trips to It will be a cause of honor, from now on, to Vietnam, Betty met Dr. Tisdale, who, as an. support, in whatever ways I can, an or­army doctor, spent his spare time tending phanage that was co-founded by Tom the children at An Lac. He was, at that time, · Dooley. On Sunday mornings, when the a widower with five sons. In 1969, Betty and children at their Mass bring me nickels and Patrick Tisdale were married. In the years · dimes and quarters as offerings, that money 
will become the gift of the urchins of Notre Dame to the urchins of An LacOrphanage in Vietnam. Sometimes on Sunday af­ternoons, I will beg quarters for those or­phans from the students who attend Mass at the Urchins' chapel in Keenan-stanford. Dr. Tom Dooley's work belongs not only to Betty Moul Tisdale; it belongs to all of us whose heritage is Notre Dame, as much as the Number One football team belongs to us, or the lakes, named for saints, gleaming with silver, down the embankment from the dome of gold. 
What I am saying is: if you don't have a cause, wouldn't you like to make Tom Dooley's cause your cause, too? 
remembering a dream 
In the early springtime of Georgia, I was 
stirred to remembering an ancient dream 
by the example of a woman and the beauty 
of her family. I am hoping, once again, that 
those Chinese children in the rice paddy 
might be my friends. After the tragedy of 
the Vietnam war, I am not sure what shape 
the rice paddies might be in, or whether 
children can go there to play with stout 
missionaries. But I do know there are 
children, helped by Betty Moul Tisdale, who 
depend upon an orphanage for their very 
survival; the name of their orphanage is An 
Lac, which means "Happy Place." There 
are ways I can help build a "happy place" 
for those children. If they are happy, the 
rice paddies are optional; if they are well, it 
doesn't matter whether I see the children, 
or not. 
But I certainly hope to see them, even if 
my dream of them is a dream of peace, and 
those orphans are the children of war. 


the blahs and the wall street journal 
I once 

had a friend who was constantly evaluating himself for others in the course of con~ versation. You could be talking about anything from the temperature range in the Mojave desert to the wisdom of using ket­chup with breakfast, and suddenly he would pop up with some little punditry such as, "I'm really quite fond of good-natured objects." He was about as much fun to carry on a lengthy conversation with as five society matrons out for their first-Tuesday­of-the month luncheons. 
Well, anyway, I chanced to think of him while attempting to describe the two main thoughts I want to write about here. They are actually nothing more than "good­natured" objects, which means, I suppose <and I have given this no little amount of thought>, that they will not cause the resurrection of childhood traumas or the challenge of a deeply-rooted moral con­victions. 
The first thing I want to write about is the 

article which appeared in the Wall Street 
Journal, describing the changing image of 
this university. The second is the delivery to 
me of a blah remover, sent on request by the 
Wallace Brown Company of White Plains, 
N.Y. 
1 must admit that my knowledge of the 

Journal's editorial slant is minimal. I was 
under the impression that they reserved 
their feature stories for things like the rising the blahs-the can't-go-on.>-try this. 
"Step into the shower. 
"Soap yourself up. 

"Then start scrubbing your back and shoulders with this back scrubber blah­remover. 
<I thought to myself. "If only Marlon Brando had known about this before they made "Last Tango".) 
"Does something about getting the blood flowing-getting the skin tingling-getting the muscles limbered. "What it really does is jar the blahs-make you feel like you just might make it. 
"Certainly worth the $3.95 to see if it does this for you. If it doesn't, after the first time you try it, put it in a box-wet and all-send it back. 
<I'd hate to work in their mailroom.) 
I figure by now that many of you are thinkin, "I hope he prints the name and address of this place, so I can send for one of those and see if it works before the Maharaj Ji makes his way to this part of the country again." 
Well, hold on for a second. In the concern for your best interests, I made a clinical test of this item, and here are the results. 
First, I chose a suitable means of sam­piing reaction to the blah remover. I decided that the technique used by the Wall Street Journal would suffice. <Remember that article. All this rambling has 
trade in Green Chinese Pottery among the . something to do with it.) By obtaining the 
nouveau riche in Australia. What appeared took me by surprise. 
But not as much as the receipt of my blah-remover. I had ordered it not on a spark of whimsy, but with a genuine curiosity as to what the hell these people thought they could get away with. I was taken. As P.T. Barnum said, "There's a sucker born every minute." 
The advertisement wasn't exactly what you would call a straight-sell pitch. It read: 
"Next time you get the slumps-the drags-

Finally, I met ~ with a willing subject. I , asked him, "Do you feel that your views on showers and what they can do for you are 
. "not untypical"'?" "Showers have been keeping my family . clean for years," he answered, and they'll do the same for me." "Would you like to have your blahs 
removed?" I asked. 
'\What the hell," he said. 

l handed him the back scrubber and 
awaited his reaction from the other side of 
the curtain. 
New 
Blah 

Remover 
Only s395 
Step onto the snower 
Soap yourselt up 

Then stan scrubtnng your back and snoulde" •Jth ""' sr.ql becll scrubber. blah llHOO'o'llf 
Does X~methn'9 about gen'"g rhe blood llow•ng-gethng !tMt slun unghrtg-qel11ng tne musclell5 limbered 
Who.lrtraiiillydoeliJijllfrhe blahs-makes you fHI likl!l you tustmrghtm~~kert. 
Certa•nly 'llfOrtfl 13.95 to see '' ot aoes lh!S lot you II rt >l<JeS'ltafterthaliqtltftM 
you try d.. put rt •n a bo.. _, and an. and ~ •I back­rll refl.na all your money 
Oh yes-•t"s :zt;• long-4'" *klr 
-maae ,., StSal-•oven­has l'landles on eKh end. 
~~ , _____,._,1 
~ace~ 
by fred graver 
"I'm soaping up now," he hollered. "Take you time: form you own opinion," I said. 
"Hey, do you mind if I wash my hair first, this thing looks like it's going to take a while to soften up." 
"Whatever you think." 

"Okay, I'm ready now," he yelled a few moments later. No reaction came. I could hear the scrubbing, but it didn't sound like he was enjoying it to any great extent. 
"Hey, what gives?" he asked. 
"No good, huh?" 
"Nope." 
After such an astounding reaction, decided to go for another point of view. waited a while longer. 

My second subject was much more helpful, and gave me this written evaluation: 
"Well, you know, this thing is more than just a piece of rope, and I can't see why anybody would have any reason (outside of perhaps snobbery and prejuside and maybe health reasons) to not use it. I'm noticing a big difference in a change in my self­confidence. I mean, it wasn't just a shower anymore, not just hot water and soap, it was a new experience, maybe one of the top ten or twenty sensual experiences in my life. You have to realize, though, that one of the ex~rie~nes that is sliding down in my e~tJmatJon maybe depriving this from it's nghtful place. I used to like eating peanut butter and cottage cheese, but it isn't the same any more, you see. Take it with a grain of salt." 
On the whole, I think that the blah remover is not all it's cracked up to be. 1 therefore withold my seal of approval. 
Getting back to the Wall Street Journal piece, there is one glaring error that I would like to correct. They said the St. Mary's girls are commonly called the "belles of St. Mary's". 
I have always heard ';hat they were 
commonly called "SMC B----s.'' 

point-of-view of a "not untypical" user of the blah remover, I would be able to evaluate sufficiently the product in question. 
I couldn't get in touch with Kevin Britt, or Joe Abell. So I did the next best thing and waited in front of the showers for someone with the blahs. 
It was a fairly long wait and a number of times I considered "throwing in the towel" and testing the thing out myself. I was also getting some pretty strange looks. 

ND computers perform unbelievable feats 

the 13 criteria established for thisby Zenon Bidzinski literature in 1933. The criteriaStaff Reprter 
include different spellings of Everybody knows that com-various words in five provinces in puters are taking over the world, England, the morphology of a few 
words (the form a word takes when
right'? If they aren't, they surely in an inflection) and syntax (word 
seem to be. There are few 
practical jobs that a good com-order). Kline thinks these criteria 
are too narrow and is looking for 
puter cannot do. And, of course, a additional ones. As a control he is 
computer's speed and high degree evaluating dated and signed
of accuracy make it much more 
efficient and reliable than man in manuscripts with the same 
criteria.
any job it can be programmed for. For example' Kline explained, Computer use at Notre Dame is the computer can take the 3000 constantly growing. In fact, Brian lines of the Middle English poem
Walsh, director of ND's Computing 
Center' recently said that there are "The Owl and the Nightingale"
and in less than an hour, give all 
not enough computer facilities to instances of the 13 criteria, total
accommodate all the people who 
desire computer time. Con-them, tell where they occur, and sequenly, Walsh explained, graph the results on the' province priorities have had to be set. map of England. 
Presently, research accounts for John Nicolaides, professor of between 63 percent and 64 percent Aerospace and Mechanical of the computer's work load. In-Engineering, is a very strong struction is growing rapidly as a advocate of computer use and has major computer use on campus, made many significant con­according to Walsh. A year ago it tributions in aerodynamics. He onlyaccounted for 9 percent of the claims that he "couldn't even work load. think about doing his work without 
The computing center director a computer" and compares a explained that the computer is computer to having " a million available to all faculty and men working for him." The students. He noted that over 700 aerospace professor is an expert account numbers have been issued with computers, though, having for faculty research and that over worked on the world's . first 2800 different students used the computer, The Bush-Differential computer for instruction last year. Analyzer, at the Aberdeen 
Currently computer use is free.. Proving Grounds in Maryland in Faculty members, however, are 1946. urged to secure outside research Under contract to NASA and grants to assist with the cost. The DOD, professor Nicolaides and University covers whatever costs professor Robert Eikenberry are the grants do not provide for. Last computing the flight performance year, according to Walsh, 17 of sounding rockets (rockets which percent of the research work load measure the characteristics of our was covered by grants. · The atmosphere and space, and pave director added that 80 percent of the way for the space program). the center's $1.3 million budget is The two researchers have used for research purposes. developed a program that 
-One of the most· interesting simulates rocket flight and allows aspects of computers in the last them to test their various rocket few years has been the amazing designs without firing them. number of ways that people have "We're saving the United States found to use them. Faculty government millions of dollars by researchers at ND have found that this program," Nicolaides the computer can be beneficial in boasted, "because we're doing our almost any kind of research. They flight failures on computer and have also found that many new correcting them on computer." areas of research have been He proudly added that NASA opened because of the vast amount research is ten years behind the of material that a computer can ND aerospace department in flight work with. Whereas the computer dynamics, and so ''we do their was originally 1 designed for research for them." scientific, mathematically related A few years ago Nicolaides, problems, it is now being used by along with professor Charles researchers in every department. Ingram, solved the equations for A sampling of the facUlty research golf ball flight. The discovery, is described below. according to Nicolaides, led to the 
Professor Edward Kline, first new golfball in 50 years. Once Director of Graduate Studies in again the flight tests were done on English, is using the computer to the computer. figure out when and where certain "The computer showed that the unsigned Middle English ball with interdigitated dimples manuscripts were written. Kline goes further than the one with explained that there are missing aligned dimples,"the aerospace gaps in English literature in the professor explained. Middle English period from uoo-He added that with the aid of 1500. the computer they were able to 
"A majority of the literature of find out that a golfball's flight, the period is anonymous," said because of the underspin, is like Kline, "because in those days that of an .airplane rather than people thought i't was a display of like that of a projectile. pride to sign one's n:~mP " Perhaps the most interesting 
The English professor is computer research recently presently employing the computer completed concerned the problem to check 55 samples according to of court delay. The research was 
.r ·1 W~t cnutonial 
I 
Jancakt ifnu.sr 
"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
•====?.============================================:::==========:====================;=:===w 
I ::::chicken -Steak -Sandwiches :l:l: 
I ~~Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ~j~j
IU.S. 31 (O~Our Host 
L(Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50 



done as a joint project by faculty of the Law School and the College of Engineering, and the project was entitled LEADICS (Law and Engineering Analysis of Delay In Court Systems). 
The professors involved were Leslie Foschio, David Link, and Francis Beytagh of the Law School; John Uhran, Michael Sain, and Eugene Henry of Electrical Engineering; and James Dasch­bach, Raymond Brach, and David Sharpe of Aerospace and 
·Mechanical Engineering. Foschio 
and Daschbach headed the 
research. 
These men received a $191,000 grant from the Justice Department in July 1970, to study the problem of felony-case delay in the court system of St. Joseph County and Marion County u:ndianapolis) , Indiana, using systems' analysis and computer modelling techniques. The delay they were investigating was the inherent delay of the system, caused by its own 1procedure8 and structure. 
The researchers used the computer in three ways. First, they stored the vast amount of data collected 050 pieces of data from each of 2500 felony cases) on magnetic tape. The engineers then developed a unique mathematical model of the court system on which to test their data and theories. Finally, they designed statistical programs to analyze the data. 
The court model was a h~ge success, and according to Foschio, was a significant improvement over past models. Tne law professor and assistant Dean claimed that it allowed the 
I 

RESERVATIONS
1-­
w ND 

284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Nites 
Student -Faculty
SMC 

ND+ SMC Staff THEATRE 'po 
SEASON 1973-74 

THE HOMECOMING 
Harold Pinter's disturbing, bizarre comedy Nl.ar. 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 at 8:30pm Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 

researchers to reach many valuable conclusions. He said that, for the first time, a model had been developed which would repre~;ent and analyze the .data exactly as it existed and would answer 
(continued on page 12) 

PITTSBURGH® 
PAINTS 

Student Discounts on Latex Wall Paints 
Home Decor Center College square 721 W. McKinley Mishawaka, Ind. Ph. 256-1511 Open Mon-Fri 8-6 Sat -8-4 

Can you tell me when Beach Boys tickets initially go on sale? Also, when is Rare Earth Coming to Notre Dame and when are those 
tickets going on sale? 
The tickets for the Beach Boys concert will go on sale March 29th. Rare Earth will be here on March 31 and those tickets are now on sale. 
I am a sophomore interested in buying a class ring for next year. When do they go on sale and how much are they? 
Rings are sold thru the bookstore during the week of April 8. The prices for the rings vary with the kind of gold offered, but for yellow gold the cost is $69.50 and for white gold it is $78.00. 
Is there anywhere around here where I can call to find the time and 
weather? 
You can call (9) 234-7121 for that information. It's a recording. 
Charity bicycle hike is set for April 28 
(continued from page 5) cent will go to the Council for the portunity to rest or quit. Following Retarded of St. Joseph County. 
the ride riders are to collect the The Council plans to use its 
pledges 'for the number of miles allocation to help implement its 
they rode. new Community Residential According to Logan Center's Services program, said Locke. Recreation Director and member "The program is designed to of the Ride a Bike Committee, Bill house individuals who are in­Locke, a goal of $50,000 has been dependent. We will strive toward set for the bike-a-thon. indepenent living, even to the tune 
Of the proceeds, 25 per cent will of living in apartments,' 'he said. be given to the Indiana Association Immediately after the bike-a­for Retarded Children, while 75 per thon there will be a dance . 
SMC board revisions 
duties of the Chairman, that of

St. Mary's Student Assembly 
"Student Representative of St.

passed unamously 3 revisions to 
Mary's College." 

the structure of the Boards of 
"Everyone has been coming to

Governance at a short meeting 
the chairman as if she were the

last mght. 
student president, and this will

First of the proposals was the 
allow for a separation of power,"

change of the name "Chairman" of 
said McKiernan. Rather than

the Board to "Legislative Com­
contacting the chairman for all

missioner." This switch , ac­
questions regarding student

cording to present Chairman Barb 
Government, she said, specific

McKiernan makes all three 
commissioners should be called.

members of the Executive Com­
A proposal which enables the

mittee of the Board of Governance, 
Social Commissioner to serve in an

the Hall Life Commissioner, 
advisory capacity on the

Student Affairs Commisssioner, 
Executive Committee of the Board 

and "Legislative Commissioner, 
of Governance , as the chairman of 

equal. 
the student relations board and

The Assembly also passed the 
academic affairs comissioner do

proposal to eliminate one of the 
now, was also passed. 


228 W. Jefferso f the Whttco~. d" tr\ct. 

to h ground t\oor o f the f\nanc,a\ \S Qn t .e . the heart 0 . e g. Ofl•ce Manager Bu\\dlng, \0 Registered Representatw nAINV \NC. 
Jam::~N &CON\1-"" f\WS
11 

K J. t)l"'\~~.. .:... -~T\ES· MUTUAL
'Qa<s.B()NOS·CUIV1"'"""'' South Bend ST 228 '1-J. JeftersonZ34-5094 Te\ephone 
ATTENTION 
All Human Racers 
Don't Bare Your Sole . • 


.. 

Keds Closeout • Get Our STREAKER SNEAKERS 
Sizes 6 to 12 
4.88 

It's a fact, friends: one should never jump into anything feet first ... after all, there are obstacles in every path. Like glass. Like sharp rocks. Like sudden turns and fences to climb. But never fear ... our sneakers are exceptionally rugged .•. designed to provide complete protection with sturdy uppers and special non-slip, fast get-away soles. Buy a pair today ... the feet you save may be your own. 
Ayrway-Scottsdale Mall 
-

f 
12 .the obse·r·ver 

I• 
ND faculty utilize computers 
(continued from page 10)

~ questions about how the systemoperRtes.
t For example, he explained, they could "ask" the model "How long on the average does it take to process a criminal case in this system, for any given time period or any given type of crime?" or "What would happen if one phase of the system was eliminated?" 
The researchers presented their report to the Justice Department in Feb. 1972. Foschio said it has led to some changes already and added that Hudson County, N.J. , recently received a grant to test the Notre Dame model in their county. 
The research is to continue throughout the year, with an analysisof the above data done at the end of each semester. The computer's statistical analysis will determine the cost of using the computer for instruction, the teaching effect, and the attitudes 

-
of student toward having a computer for one of their teachers. 
Waldemar Goulet, professor of finance, is one of the many business professors doing research employing the computer. Goulet said he is •trying to determine what effects certain variables have on a company's stock prices in the 12­month period immediately following listing on a national exchange. 
After 15 months of research, Goulet has found that there's· a negative reaationship between prices after listing and those before, i.e. the new stock's prices rise slower and fall faster than the market average. Earlier researchers had claimed that listing has no dollar value. 
The finance professor said he uses the computer in two major ways. He first uses it to do large amounts of simple but time consuming statistical calculations He 'hen uses it to do advanced calculations and model building. His major model is a regression that tells what variables are statistically significant in predictiong effects on stock prices. 

A regression, Goulet explained, is a mathematical model or statistical package that helps determine the importance of certain variables. 
"I'm a great believer in using the computer," Goulet stated. "Its uses are fairly new to me," he added, "but then, many people don't really know how valuable it is and how many things it will do." 
Theodore Crovello, professor of Biology, is probably the most active computer user in that department. In the past few years he has created what is probably the world's largest mosquito data bank, MODABUND--Mosquito Data Bank at the University of Notre Dame. In this bank over 25,000 references of mosquito articles from 1941 to the present. 
Crovello originally created MODABUND for Biology graduate trainees, but he will now, at cost, answer outside research requests. He said he has had requests from 
'All the world. 

·Crovello is also actively engaged in research. In research entitled the Kenyu Project, he and professor George Craig are making ecological studies on the mosquito Aedes aegypti form east Africa seeking methods for genetic control. The agency for In­ternational Development of the 
U.S. State Department is funding the project. 
Using the computer for a simulation of conditions in Kenya and for analysis of experimental results, the researchers are determining and evaluating dif­ferent strategies for the release of males with genetic defects or with certain amount of sterility. The release of these males will help collapse the mosquito population, according to Crovello, but finding the release strategy with the 
IIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~vwlllllllllllllllllllllllllllll:; 
i  EXECUTIVE ~uiTE  !  
I  I  
~  ~  

~ ~ 
= = 
= = 
I I
a a 
5 5 
I ·I 
5 i 
= = 
i = i = = = 
§5 Before you choose a career, i= § consider what's not in it for you ~ 
5_-Decisions made in flophouses may not be covered by i the financial editors, but they're at least as important iii 5 to the persons involved as those made in prestigious 
I 
5 offices. Perhaps helping with truly significant decisions ~ is for you. A growing number of young people today 

5
are more attracted by a lifework than a lifestyle. Find out about the good things that are happening around the country. Let us mail you our free newsletter for young people interested in social action and religion. Just send name and address to Word One, Room SO, 221 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60606. 
THE CLARETIANS 

iS A Roman Catholic Community of Priests and Brothers 5 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IF 
greatest effect and least cost is a difficult problem. 
Chemistry professor Walter Scheidt's research concerns the determination of molecular structures by x-ray crystallography. One of the products of his work is a complex geometric structure of his newly established molecules. Scheidt uses the computer to make his geometric models and he has come 
up  with  some  unique  and  
fascinating  print-outs  (see  pic­ 
ture).  

The chemistry professor is preparing and determinging the structure of a class of compounds cl aledmetalloporphyrins. Hemoglobin, the oxygen carrying protein in the blood, and myoglobin, the oxygen storing pr<'•.ein protein in the muscle, are two of the most important metalloporphyrins. He is currently working on model systems that will help in an un­derstanding of how hemoglobin works in the body. 
In developing the structure of new crystals, Scheidt uses a set of 5000 reflections or Measurements of x-rays being scattered by the . crystal which has inherent in it a picture of the molecule. 
"What we do," he explained," is to take a photograph with a camera without a lens and then· use the computer to construct a lens which leads to the structural print-out." 
"The calcualtions which lead to the geometric model are extremely complex," Scheidt added, "and one of the calculations which the computer does in seventy seconds would take two years by hand, providing no mistakes are made." 
The research described above is only a small sample of that being done with the computer. Com­puting Center director Walsh said that there are about 150 faculty members doing research at the present time, and the number is constantly growing. 

Indeed, computers play a vital part in the work of many ND faculty. The fact that computer use is free makes it an even bigger asset. Physics professor John Kozak said that he maynot have even come to Notre Dame if computer work required outside funding. 
"Researchers at ND are very fortunate," Kozak stated, "because the computer service is provided without the possibility of their research being terminated if they don't have support available." 
Walsh himself, is very optimistic about the future of computers. He said that computers are readily available, require relatively little energy to operate, and are becoming cheaper to produce. The Computing Center Director thinks there mayevencome a time in the near future when computer ter­minals will be almost as common as televisions and will be hooked up as cable TV is now. 
SPRING FLING ARMORY PARTY SATURDAY APRIL 16th Tickets in Dining Hall Monday April Jsf 
SOCIAL COMMISSION 
presents 

CABARET 
7 & 1 0 Engineering Aud. Friday Mar. 22 
ADMISSION FREEl 
One good turn deserves another. 
From one beer lover to another. 



~Nixon attorney reveals 
t 
subpoena on president 
"Of course," he replied .

. Washington UPI-Special 
Jaworski acted after telling Sen.

prosecutor Leon Jaworski, seeking 
James 0. Eastland, D-Miss.,

additional material in his in­chairman of the Senate Judiciaryvestigation of the Watergate 
scandal, served a subpoena on Committee, on Feb. 14 that the White house had refused to givePresident Nixon last Friday, the him additional documents to assistPresident's lawyer said Thursday. 
his investigation. He requested 27. Warren was question of theJames St. Clair, Nixon's chief Jaworski Subpoena.

Watergate attorney , acknowledged in a television in­terview on the NBC Today He said he did not know what program that the subpoena had materials the special prosecutor been received. sought and that the subject of 
During a televised question-and­Watergate-related subpoenas was answer session with broadcast a matter for St. Clair to discuss. executives at Houston Tuesday night, Nixon was asked if he would The President has repeatedly ~onor a subpoena if one was served refused to give the Judiciary
1
but the House Judiciary Com­Committee 42 tapes and mittee, which is investigating his documents the committee says is possible impeachment necessary for its investigation. 
The panel must decide whether to subpoena the material and NixonIn his reply; not a specific hinted in Houston Tuesday nightanswer but a hint he would not that he might ignore a committeecomply-Nixon made no mention subpoena.

of being subpoenaed by the Watergate prosecutor. The White House claims the committee's demands are nothing
Deputy White House Pres more than a "fishing exped\tion"Secretary Gerald Warren, asked and that the committee wants toThursday why Nixon made no "back a truck up to the Whitereferennce to the Jawsorski House and cart away" all thesubpoena, replied that Nixon made confidential presidential files.
no reference to the Jaworski subpoena, replied that Nixon was responding to a specific question about a possible Judiciary Com­mittee subpoena. 
Did Nixon know at that time about the Jaworski subpoena? Warren was asked. 
SMC room pick 
priority goes to lower numbers 
Friday, .'¥arch.·~, 1.97+··) 
the observe~·:>:. 13 


BIRTHDAY SALE 
-

Director's chair in vivid colors Wlt'-·--..-.....--YM;W 
Reg.19.99 
Now 
·1488 



Hand-crafted onyx chess set
Bota Skin Wine Bag 
Reg. 39.99 
Reg. 3.99 • 4.99 
Now 2888
Now 288 


II 


I 
I 

Phone: 25~0880

Shop: Monday-Saturday 10-10. Sunday 10-8 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm·s Brewery 

'­
• 


r---------~---------------------------~-----~ 
Friday, March. 22, 1974 · 
. the observer
14 

Tae Kwon Do demonstrated by members 
Governor receives funds 


by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 
While breaking pine and spruce boards, sixth-degree black belt 
D.S. Kim explained the principles behind the 25QO-year-old martial art of Tae Kwon Do at the demonstration sponsored by the Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club in LaFortune Ballroom last night. 
All levels of expertise in the art participated in the demonstration. White belt, one-semester begin­ners performed simple basic manuvers:hand punches, kicks, and foot and arm blocks. Some of these were aimed into the air, illustrating the dynamics behind the TaeKwonDo art. Others were aimed at one-inch pine boards to show the tremendous striking force generated by these motions. 
More advanced !itudents illustrated the dance-like com­bined movement series, the basic format of Tae Kwon Do. Later, they performed paired single manuver sparring, to simulate a physical assault by the street fighter. 
Finally, the black belt club leader demonstrated a flying 
(continued from page 7) 
Hughes by Robert Maheu, former head of his Nevada empire. 
U.S. District Court Judge Harry Pregerson cautioned the jury that the deposition was meant to be considered in gauging Maheu's "state of mind," while he worked for Hughes, and not for the truth or falsity of the allegations. Bell testified that he gave 
Nixon popularity reaches new low 
in Harris Poll 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Presi­dent Nixon's popularity with the American people has sunk to a new low, the Harris Poll reported Thursday, but by a narrow plurality, most Ameri­cans do not think he should resign. 
Harris said results of a nationwide sampling this month indicate only 26 per cent of the people approve of the job Nixon is doing, compared with 29 per cent in February and a 60 per cent rating in February, 1973, 
before the Watergate scandal 
broke. 
"These latest figures reflect the reaction of the public to the President after the spate of indictments against his former close aides in cases connected with the Watergate affair," Harris said. 
"However, when asked if he should resign, the verdict was 47-44 per cent opposed to his taking such a move, with 9 per cent unable to make up their mind. 
"On the other hand, when asked if they would 'respect Presdent Nixon more if he resigned from office to allow Vice President Ford to take over in his place in an act of na tiona! unity,' a narrow plurality, 42-39 per cent, agreed." Harris said. 
· planning a Wt'<kling? call 1hr 234-5822 \\(>d(hng Photo~rapu 
234-5822 MICHAEL· LONER 
:;:..,~ ~ 

swing kick which terminated in the breaking of four one-inch spruce boards. 
Kim explained that Tae Kwon Do is the compounding of a great number of bodily movements striking together in the same in­stant of time and at the particular point to be hit. It is this com­bination in each blow of twisting hips, arm or foot thrusts, snapping wrist and weight transfer that gives the manuvers of Tae Kwon Do its tremendous force. 
Kim sees a number of reasons that would attract a student to study Tae Kwon Do. The ability to defend oneself in nearly any situation, the building up of con­fidence, concentration and self­discipline,, and as a means to physical fitness, Kim sighted as rational for participating in the art. 
The program ended with the announcement of a half semester beginning course to be offered by the Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club through Kim's Tae Kwon Do center on Mishawaka Avenue in South Bend. The class will be held on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays in the ACC wrestling gym and would cost twenty dollars for 
$10,000 to AI Bishop, a Hughes aide, in 1970 on instructons from Maheu. Bell CJUOted Maheu as saying that' Agnew, then the vice president, had asked Hughes for the money for a "dear friend" who succeeded him as governor of Maryland. 
The governor was not named in the testimony but the only Maryland governor since Agnew is the present holder of the office, Marvin Mandel. 
There was no indication in the deposition whether the 
ATTENTION N.D. • SMC GIRLS 
"IT'S A FREE RIDE" 
SPRING FORMAL 

Friday, April 5th, 9-2, Indiana Club 
Music by "My Friend" (Detroit Recording Group) Tix $5.00 per couple 
On Sale Mon. & Tuesday. in the Dining Halls For information contact: 
ND -6719 
SMC -4797 or 4762 
·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 
money had actually been passed on the the governor. 
Bishop is the man who caused a flap at the Space Agency in a scheme involving the sale of envelopes that went to the moon. Bishop, who has many astronaut friends, paid for printing of special light­weight envelopes that were taken to the moon in 1972 by the crew of Apollo 15 without NASA's knowledge. They were later sold as postal covers for up to $1,500 apiece. 


., 
... ·.:-;.-r,·=~~ ;.·~ . A . I 
.>·:<<::~.~.;~:....;~ {·'· n1ce p ace 
~ ..... , .............. ~.~,· 
to begin your weekend 
. Mass ~.Dinner 5pm Every Friday 
Notre Dame students exhibit the delicacies of the martial art of Tae Kwon Do in the LaFortune Ballroom (Staff photo bY Zenon Bidinski) 
Kim stated that he wanted to stress this course because it of­fered people interested in the martial arts an opportunity to try it out for a short period of time and a~ a reasonable price, in order to decide if they really like it before they invest much time and money. 
. 


Fridav•. March 22, 1974 the· observer 
15 

Report on Nixon homes is critical 
By GENE POYTHRESS 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -A House subcommittee studying government spending on Presi­dent Nixon's homes in San Clemente, Calif., and Key Biscayne, Fla., Thursday adopt­ed a confidential report appar­ently critical of the President. 
Five  Democrats  on  the  
Government  Affairs  subcom­ 
mittee  were  joined  by  one  

Republican in accepting the report that the chairman, Rep. Jack Brooks, D-Tex., said deals with "obvious problems" in Nixon's handling of the affair. 
The other four Republicans, who tried in vain to delay action on the report, voted against accepting the report and indicated they would file a dissent when it reaches the House floor. 
The report, based on months 
Mideast 
By United Press International 
The Israeli national radio has charged Syria is escalating the fighting in the Golan Heights by firing farther into Israeli­occupied territory. For the lOth straight day Thursday Israeli and Syrian gunners fought intermittent artillery duels. 
Field dispatches from the Israeli side said Syrian gunners targeted Israeli civilian settle­ments and areas west of the cease-fire line in the Golan Heights established in the 1967 war. In the new war last October, Israel carved a further salient out of Syrian territory. The current artillery duels are the the longest fighting since the October war. 
The Israeli command said Thursday's firing caused no Israel.i casualties and and that 
Plans have been finalized for this weekend's Muscular Distrophy Dance Marathon special events and extra contests. Dan Shipp, activities co-ordinator for the marathon, has announced a variety of extra events, including 
halter top and muscle short con­
tests, a checkers tournament a 
~fgT~h~e-thjuedtguinnegcoonftesthteaHndalctosertuTmope 
~~~r\es6!~~e':t~o~n ~:nth~i~u~~: 
place Friday at 11:00 pm Awards will be given to the spectators and participants with the best halter 
top or muscle shirt. 
A Checkers Tournament, for participants only, will begin with a preliminary round Saturday night at 6 :30 pm and with the cham­pionship Sunday afternoon at 1:00 pm. 
Marathon contestants can also 
participants in a "Name that 
Tune" Contest Saturday night, 
Scheduled for 8:00-9:00pm. 
Judging will take place at 
midnight Saturday for the 
Costume Night, open to both 
marathon participants and 
spectators. These two separate 
contests will feature awards for 
the best costume in the three 
ategories of Ugliest, Funniest, and 
Most Original. 
The schedule of live bands for 
the weekend marathon is as 
follows; of study into spending of $10 million by the Secret Service and General Services Adminis­tration on "security measures" at Nixon's retreats on both coasts, is supposed to be confidential. 
But Brooks, in printed re­marks handed out to members of the public audience, left little doubt about its thrust. 
Brooks referred to "loose arrangements" for paying for items requested by the Secret Service; the procurement of items "far in excess of security needs," and the "obligation of federal funds by nongovern­mental personnel." 
He said the recommendations of the report "are all designed to meet these obvious prob­lems." 
""Since the agencies involved have exhibited an inability to exercise reasonable discretion in carrying out their duties in providing protection at private­ly-owned residences," Brooks said, "Congress may be com­communications. Total GSA pelled to adopt legislation that spending was put at $3.7 million explicitly sets forth guidelines on presidential homes and under which it can seek the adjacent offices. The Secret assistance of other federal Service also disclosed it had agencies." spent about $300,000 since 1969 

It was disclosed Aug. 6 that · for detection devices at the more than $10 million in federal President's homes, and the funds had been spent for residences of his two daughters.
security at the California and Military expenditures at San Florida homes. Previous esti­Clemente totaled $3.7 million, mates of the cost of the including $1 million for com­security changes had been munications. At Key Biscayne,much lower. the one-time military cost was Sampson said the earlier, low $677,000, the GSA said, includ­
estimates were made under a specific decision by the White House to "minimize" the 
CLASSIFIED ADS
figures so as not to jeopardize 
the President's security. 
The decision to announce the higher figure was made in the wake of strong protests that taxpayers were paying for unnecessary improvements to the President's private proper­ty. 
About $6 million was spent for military facilities, mostly 
further information regarding 
opportunites with these 
companies, send S2 to Phoenix
fire exchanged 
Advertising , P.O. Box 11707, 
Israeli gunners returned the Syrian fire. 
A Syrian spokesmen said Syrian guns silenced six Israeli artillery batteries, destroyed ammunition and vehicle depots and hit a number of soldiers. 
The Israeli national radio 
said there was "some escala­
tion in the fighting" because 
the Syrians had widened the 
range of fire. 
Defense Minister Moshe 
Dayan said in a television 
interview that he did not think 
the use of more Israeli 
firepower would automatically 
counteract the Syrian shelling. 
Earlier he told the Knesset 
<parliament) that if Israeli 
unleashed more might on the 
Golan Heights front it could 
escalate the fighting by draw­
ing in other Arab armies-the 
Saudi and Kuwait forces he said are with the Syrians in the Golan Heights. 

"I don't agree with the assumption that if we introduce the air force and exert more and more force," Dayan said, "this will automatically put an end to the Syrian activity. I doubt this." 
In Cairo, Ali Amin, editor of AI Abram newspaper, predicted today that initial agreement on Israel's complete withdrawal from occupied Arab territory will be reached before May. 
Amin said : "It has been 
deccided to postpone the 
Geneva conference from April 
until May. It is expected that 
initial agreement on total 
withdrawal from the Golan 
Heights and other occupied 
Arab lands will be reached 
before the conference recon­
venes." 

Dance marathon plans set 
ing $418,000 for a helicopter pad, $14,000 for a shark net, and $300,000 for communica­tions. 
GSA spent $137,482 at Key Biscayne for Nixon's two homes, $131,000 of that on bulletproof doors and windows. 
Money also was spent on security at the Grand Cay, Bahama home of Nixon's close friend Robert Abplanalp. Nixon often visits Abplanalp on side trips when the President goes to Key Biscayne. 

Saturday Fifties music will be feature and 9:oo-l:oo pm Buck the dance will be open to the publec 2:oo-5:00 pm Lucifer for the entire 48 hours.
r-.,.,r-------....,,...,....._...,------------......
tu 

;:;:~:~:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:~:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:~~: 
256-0111

.)-~.::··r,~.:._ .. J_if}·:~•.··1 ._,···;1.._{ :~:j BIG SAVINGS NOW~;~X3Ji.hl~~) l __ON PAINTINGS i~~~ 
Cards 

~ 1J I f.'\ Y) ~~ { ~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=:=~=~=:=~=~=~=·:=:=:;;:::: 
Books 
_31 ~-;t,:;.;:r~o~-~ ·~ ;: 
Magazines
1111111111.111
{-·s,·-·,1\~.· 
fUWII & l,..tiUillfy 1'}11 1 ' 2340 mu.ldt! l.uw 


·''""'""q """"'' ,-~·~· • Art Supplies 
VIRGIL FOX 
RETURNS! 
to Bethel College 
Friday 8:00 p.m. March 22, 1974 
$3.00 Adults $2.00 Students 
Goodman Auditorium Bethel College Group Rates Available! Purchase tickets at Fine Arts Office 
For Information Call 259-8511 extext. 66 
NOTICES 
Graduation Special: May 17­
23. Nassau , Bahamas $200. Includes departure Notre Dame ·to airport, flight ,Open bar, and hotel. Call 288-6182. 
S65 to $95 per wk-part time. Unlimited earning potential In addressing encelopes at home. Companies pay top money for that "personal" touch. For 
FOR SALE 
Brand new Piping hot Texasburger, served on a giant 5 " bun. Accessories include, tomato, lettuce and special zesty sauce. Priced at only 69 cents. Inquire at Mr. Quick on State Route 23. 
Just in from Santa Fe: hand­made indian turquoisejewelry. A wide selection of bracelets rings, etttings, neckpleces, all reasonably priced and of the highest quality. drop In et 10Lyons or call 7833. 
Factory wired all solid state Dynaco stereo pream­plifier(pat-4) and amplifier 
!120) used llf2 years. Replacement cost UOO . ddicker at $225. Phone 7~. 
Koss 727B Headphones . Must sell. Dave 272-1619. 
Pioneer 626 receiver in ex­cellentconditon. Call Jim 1487. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Rudy: Fear not, I have decided to wear a suit for the wedding. However, I have also decided to wear roller skates. 
John. 
Bill: In receipt of your acceptance letter, reply shall arive shortly. 
John. 
Please pray for Kathy's and Karins complexions, and help make them perfectly clear. 
Friday 

Sunday 
6:3Q-10:00 pm Soul Sounds 

2: 00-4 :00 pm Soul Sounds and the 
lO:oo-1:00 am Buck 
Ojays 


Atlanta, Ga. 30305. 
Experienced typist will do term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-5332. 
MUST RENT IM­MEDIATELY: 2 BR house, River Park, April occupancy. 288-6146. 
Logan volunteers: Sat rec this week 9 am-12." Very im. meeting to follow. 
WANTED 
Want to sub let apt. tor sum­mer. Portage or Turtle Creek. Call 3816. 
2 housemates tor '74. 3 blocks from campus. Call 4559. 
Open now: Parttime job, 20 hrs. 5 afternoons a week. $209 per hr. Call 6549 or 6650. 
Need ride to St. Louis. Mar. 22. Call 6804. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost small silver ring with red star sapphire. Call 1804. 
Bill Pumphrey Terry Billger 
'T~araft~r y~ar. s~mc"'it~r Iaft~r s~mcst~r. th~ Coll~geMaster' from Fidelih' Union Life has lx-cn the most acceptl'<l. most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelitv Union 
Colleg~Master· 
.Field Associate 
m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 

T,,m McMahon General Agent 

Norm Wallace 

T.lm Scilirr 




Carlton Higgenbothan 
... 16 the observer Friday, March 22, 1974 
1n PH Classic
ND-UCLA rematch • 
Phelps, Novak battle Walton, Wilkes once again in annual event 
Wichita, Kan.\--UCLA's in the Collegiate Conference awesome Bill Walton and Olym­Tournament in St. Louis. pian Bobby Jones of North 
The top eight votegetters forCarolina came away with winning both the East and West will benumbers after more than 1.9 
extended automatic invitations tomillion ballots were tabulated as play in the Classic. The remainingvoting ended for positions on the two players on each team will beEast and ·West all-star squads designated as at-large selectionsthat will compete in the third by a national coaching and media
annual Pizza Hut Basketball 
panel.
Classic. 'J'he NCAA and NAIA­sanctioned charity event will be performed before a nationwide television audience the night of Aprill from Las Vegas Convention The top eight in the West isCenter. 
comprised of Walton, Kivisto, Woods, Wilkes, Sammy High
Walton shattered all balloting (Tulsa), Sid Edwards <Houston),records, gaining 303,682 votes. The Tom Henderson (Hawaii) andBruin center led the West from Robert Wilson (Iowa State).
wire to wire, receiving his most 
L,eading the East is Jones,
competition from Kansas' All Big-8 Compton, Elmore, Novak,guard Tom Kivisto, teammate All­McMillen, Marcus WashingtonAmerican Keith Wilkes and Oral 

- Roberts' Woods.  high  leaping  Eddie  (Marquette), Kim Hughes (Wisconsin) and Tom · Burleson(North Carolina State).  
Jones,  6-foot-9  All-American  Leading  at-large  candidates  in­ 
forward  for  North  Carolina,  clude Dennis  DuVal  (Syracuse),  
outlasted  fellow  Atalntic  Coast  Billy Knight (Pittsburgh), Marvin  
. Conference starts Len Elmore and  Barnes  <Providence),  Brian  
Tom McMillen of Maryland as well  Winters  (South  Carolina),  Phil  
as  Vanderbilt's  Terry  Compton  Lumpkin (Miami), ,Jimmy Powell  
and Notre Dame's Gary Novak.  <Middle  Tennessee),  Dan  An­ 
Jones accumulated 197,808 to top  derson <USC), Kevin Restani <San  
the East.  Francisco),  Bobby  Florence  
<Nevada-Las Vegas), Gus Bailey  
Coaches  for  the  Pizza  Hut  <Texas-El  Paso),  Lon  Kruger 
Classic will be Digger Phelps of  <Kansas  State),  AI  Eberhard  
Notre Dame and Ned Wulk, whose  (Missouri)  and  Richard  Little  
Arizona State Sun Devils competed  (Texas Tech). "Goose" Novak (left) and Bill Walton will clash for the third time when East meets West In the third annual Pizza Hut Basketball Classic to be held in Las Vegas on Aprill.  
OBSERVER  Boot, Dufby John Fineran  •fy WID Benthe A.C.C. March 7. Besides Boot and Duffy, eight  gal tities elusive early, but perhaps tired in the last round, allowing the  
SPORTS  Cecil Boot and Steve Duffy both won the championship which had eluded them before, and each accomplished his feat by defeating a former champion as the 43rd annual Bengal Bouts came to a roaring conclusion before 4,075 in  other bouters won crowns. However, the real winner'> were the needy children of .Bangladesh The proceeds from each year are donated to the Holy Cross Missions there, and over $180,000 has now been accumulated. Boot's win in the 185-pound  champion to hit at will. Byron King twice hurt Steve Grady with two right hooks during the second round and coun­terpunched well to win the 175--pound class by split decision. In the heavyweight class, two members of Notre Dame's  
Golfers open season 'With  class had to be satisfying because the Seattle, Wash. senior avenged his final-round defeat of a year ago  national championship team, tackle Steve Neece and fullback Jeff Hein, amazingly withstood  
spring S'Wing through Virginia  to Mike McGuire. McGuire just couldn't catch the elusive Boot enough all evening, and the judges  each other's bombs to excite the crowd. However, Hein landed more blows to score a split  
By Bill Delaney Coach Noel O'Sullivan has to be very optimistic about his chances for the 1974 Golf Team based on the team's perf9rmance on their spring tour in Virginia.  "For a first-year coach, I'm not supposed to predict our success" said the personable coach, "but with players the calibre of Jeff Burda and Paul Betz, my duties as coach become very pleasant." The Irish golfers finished their mini-tour with three victories and1  loss, with about half of their rounds being practice ones, and en­durance and strength the main goals of their play. "Now is the time to build up our stamina" explained 0 'Sullivan, "and this combined with our winter conditioning program (a first for the team and the University), should help us in our matches to come." Standout performances on the trip belonged to Co-Captain Jeff Burda and Paul Betz, on their playing as well as leadership abilities. Betz, a senior from Toledo, Ohio, was the most com­plete and consistent player on the team, while Burda, a junior from  were unanimous on their verdict. Duffy, who has been ·a bridesmaid but never the bride, finally got to the altar with a split decision over the last of the "Fighting McGrath" brothers, two-timed winner Pat, in the 140­pound class. So close was the bout that two judges went 2-1 for Duffy and won 2-J for McGuire. Tony Montangese won the opening 130-pound class with a unanimous decisison over Mike Cramer. The champion rocked his opponent with several left and right crosses. Southpaw Matt Cavanaugh defeated Jim Clune in the 142-. pound class. During the  decision. Special presentations also highlighted the evening. Bout director Dominic "Nappy" ' Napolitano, who single-handedly established the bouts 43 years ago, saw his wife receive a dozen roses from the bouters in appreciation of her dedication to them and the Bouts. Mr. and Mrs. Robert McGrath were also honored during the evening. The surprised parents contributed five sons to the program during the last 13 years, and the five have totaled eight crowns. Mrs. McGrath received a corsage.  
Aptos,  California,  had  the  con­ unanimous decision, Clune slipped  
fidence and desire to lead the team. The play of sophomore Paul  to the canvas and apparentlY, hurt his leg.  Irish named  
Koprowski and junior Ed Whelan  Bill  Pioli  and  Terry  Johnson  
provided an unexpected surprise for Coach O'Sullivan and the team.  hooked up in a real battle for the 145-pound title, and the former  Academic AA's  
"Paul and Eddie have definitely proven to be terrific golfers and will play a key role in the team's success." added O'Sullivan.  ended up with the crown unanimously. Pioli stalked Johnson, who fought in Ireland last year, and hurt him with several punches to the face.  Notre Dame All-American tight end Dave Casper along with kicking specialist Bob Thomas and linebacker Gary Potempa were  
....  Although the schedule includes only two home matches (April 6 and 10 versus Tri-8tate and Loyola respectively), the Irish will face perennial powers such as Indiana, Ohio State, Purdue, and Michigan at their courses in the weeks to come. For Coach O'Sullivan, time cannot pass quickly enough before  Phil Harbert recorded the only knockout of the evening when he sent John O'Brien to the canvas with a strong right at 1:15 of the third round to win the 150-pound class. Both fighters scored with several punches, but the champion had the better third round. Chet Zawalich rallied in the third round to defeat Kevin Poupore  named to the Academic All-American team selected by the sports information directors from over 200 different colleges and universities. Casper, an Economics major with a 3.6 average and Thomas, a Government major, also with a 3.6 were named to the first team of­fensive unit while Potempa, a Pre­Med student with a 3.2 average  
the 1974 edition of the Irish GolfIrish Co-captain Jeff Burda got off to a fast start In Virginia as the Notre Team hits the links.  unanimously at 165-pounds. Poupore punched well and proved  was named to defensive squad.  the  starting  



Dame golf team completed Its spring trip. 


